ler + 4 tS _te-test_t " eee :
104-10188-10015)_{ | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992];

3
i i :
Be “ CATER OY ASNAL ERAT Ang ery
1. THIS DOCUMENT 18 CH. A ARATIMIS OPaEE pag
2 RETURN TITS DOC |
RM GA-50, ON @-E/VeLr ir: fKP. °C pV, oe j
3. IF YOU FORW. seeeieianaie ;
INDIVIDUAL 5
+ i)

" Wray, UNE LOCATION : AAD/22 0

| STRRATURE Hf
RINUENING OFFICTAL

IC 1 awatoa

1535

BE a

Xe)

tere aes icon



CONFIDENTIAL :

NOTICE —

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED, DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER, FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SROULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-5B.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

corn

Ta 2593


: SECRET

gwncre nui ow :

a cael

SUBJECT ANO PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD-NOTIFICATION OF ACTICN

IP/AN

FROM: (Division)

101 (Station/Boxe)
MEXICO CITY

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTENS

HOM 102 LIER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING "A THLE, CITE,

COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12
BUCH AS 201 O8 PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE:

ie

tas aca ue rues wor of ataiie amr tte we | {Sia no twat AM a

dastan on inte velo cova ano Ow wacrsine GETS aa oe

etree rts Suto To losmnne me tore OF Mattinac tot PUAgED
ain Tueau ro uane orm reecanatony wrens,

19M 7 AND O-USE FIRST THEEE LETTERS OF DISPATCH BM
HOLT FOH FIELD STATIONS AND LGT HeAQUaRTiN| tue: | Tet
MINTS ACCORDING 10 ESTANLISHFD nuMeHC CUDLD courses,

=A MECOUOS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE AG
CUNLULT YOU RMO'ON ANY PHONL LM” I

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

? ODE FILED NU

Tyre or Fe

counter

PROsECT 0

a

‘Seaceae

y [Rere WESTRUCTION HECOMMENOLO
THRU IUATED
j__1P/ARD

O iMARS HOR FELD DBT AINO TION

SW TERETE WTAUOUAR TERS DESK LIST ACTION GEAR FIRST

ce)

TINTEHTSTED BYATIONS PROTECTS OMLVT

a4 =

FILES ACTION a
PERMANENTLY 15)

MOL IN Gies rete precane rovota anc | [OFFICER @ PESKY
ca Fwes sarliaaatiaee .[: US apholhtet Senn To REQUESTER

70. COMMENTS HAGLUDE S>r.CI

NEIL HEADOUARTERS ROUTING wine RU

COGRDINATION ir RIO_APPROVAL

can eo Largoust weraoree BF

aut 4. Cats 2m bees,
GowE Tre NoWOEe

‘ Toe [7a]

7M B12 eomons SECRET : 33 iste

sre ness

ENOORSEMENT



BY = ARMSTRONG
(an RIO SeCTIUN ch

(RCH ITEM 10 0% FOIY n12}

“THES YS “AN RID orice

meee TETLE €RVPTONY CAS



syASSIFIED Messace _Totar Comes. J] seunna soon inussten st
ne

1 SECRET. och 2

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATICN,

FILE. VR

SECRET 119552: MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236
: a 560483:

DIRTECH INFO| sy) ~ DIRECTOR

AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR

REF A. HNMA~41502

Cir sr 9378)

Be
1. PLS PROCURE TWO 1020 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES

WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.
2. FOR NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS

UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-l.

SECRET

SECRET


Hae

The Dalseune in
5 very Saehk roc
noi Lit

#s ean be seen ix
lens is

s -continued

Leora errar)

fr
l



J Charles F.

ai:

:



‘GssmCaTiOn
SECRET.

PROCISSING ACIION.

AREIO £08 DOEXIKG

|) INOLLING REQUIAID

forty QUAND ovse
[can rvoct ot aTRG =

Chief of Station, Mexico City>
jwauct” AQUATIC/RDAFGHAN —
“_Ronewal of Passports for KDAFGHAN:

lasagna

-1_and_KDAFGHAN-2

caw TG iene

Reference: HMs¥-17955, 11 June 1970

“The WOACRE-issued Cuban passports for Subjects have expired.
It is requested that new. passports” be ptepared for them. According
to KOAFGIAN-1, the new passports should carry the samo numbers as
the old passports. The passports, and current photographs of
Subjects, are being forwarded under separate cover. It is

requested that tho old passports be returned.

a
Caged!
ae Elsie I. SCALETTI

Attachment:
As. stated u/s/c x. .

Distribution:
Vorig. & 1 - Chief, WOACRE (w/att. best
1 - Chief, WHD (w/o/ tt)
1 - Chief, MKSPICE (Ww;

pe eagy

as ere To — | pir ma a WER
i HMMA = 41480 °~ “W January 1972

ECRET -201=305604

CASRATON cs Fir wUHSER
| FENE= P=? 09?



CABLE, SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION _quggASSIFIED MESSAGE _Totat COPIES

SECRET.

When Filled In}

4 off ee somasset at
G

TagpRooUeTCN OF twis COPY

7
¢

SECRET 948562 NOV-71 CITE MEXICO CITY 18173 Nov Ind 65586
ei rN
: +

DIRECTOR
ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN

: lo REQUEST OBTAIN AND POUCH TO STATION ON PRIORITY

BASIS’FOR KDAFGHAN ONE EACH: APRON, CLOTH, FY WW

PAKONOMY PRINT ORYER MODEL 13-5, N.~5932.
CORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS 40, MINN.

2. REQN 5959-19-72 APPLIES. GPo1
SECRET

SECRET

NFR: .PAKO



Ime - Ad!
ETON NS
SECRET 2117202 OCT TE MEXICO CITY 18614 (HOSTEDT ACTING)
DIRTECH INFO DIRECTOR, .
AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN :
2: 0:7 i..451868
1. KOAFGHAN-1 HAS FOR YEARS USED BALSCOPE LENS Cc”

WITH 20 X EYEPIECE FOR ID PHOTOGRAPHY OF VISITORS AND
EMPLOYEES ENTERING KDACOUSTIC. TO IMPROVE QUALITY
PHOTOGRAPHY AND INCREASE CAPABILITY DURING EVENING
HOURS WHEN LIGHTING POOR STATION PREFERS A PHOTOGRAPHICALLY
CORRECTED 1000 (1M TELEPHOTE LENS FOR PROJECT. PLS ADVISE
AVAILABILITY OF ABOVE LENS FROM WOACRE STOCK. IF PROJECT
TO DE CHARGED FOR LENS NOTIFY STATION.

2. MKSPICE DOES NOT HAVE THIS TYPE LENS IN STOCK. GP-1.

SECRET .

: a

: Lt
Nua 4 : 7
( IC DAT eth = Seppe tT ‘
— ~y wa

af

SECRET Dew


hse Df) fae

oni

SECRE 7 2220532 oct 70 CITE NEXIG

DIRIECH INFO DIRECTOR

RYBAT AQUATIC
REF: vintecn ors, © 7/7 SP 272)

1, FOLLOWINY IS 4 Lis ST OF _EQUIFNEN

(ovE EACH OF ITEYS LISTED):
a. Pes

TELESCOPE, BALECOPE BAUSCH AND LOB. 3

CAMERA, SP, 34 NM, EXAKTA W/O LENS;

CAMERA, PENTA? MBL HSV3

B, pToALLAG
TELESUOPE, S-E, BAUSCH AND LOwD., BAL
CAMERA, SP, 35 NN, EXAXTA, WO/LENS}

Ce [esonzot]

BINOCULARS, 10250, TASCO, JAP ND!

TELESC
ERA, PENTAX 35 MM;

DRIER, PHOTO PAKONONY MDL 1305
EMLARGER, LEITZ WETZLER FOCCHAT 1C3
BOTOROLA HANDIE*TALKIE FN RADIOPHONE 3

- SECRET bess

yy BAUSCH AND LOMB BALSCOPE SA

0 CITY 4653

T USED IN PROJECTS

SCOPES

13
Re 5

220 19] 057
7).



od

PAGE @ wWexIco CITY 46453 SECRET
MOTOROLA RADIOPHONES

ERA, RETINAS
LENS, RETINA 50:495
LENS, RETINA 35i0M5
LENS, RETNA BG%i%4,

Ggnl-3

Qe FILES FRA FAEN

SECRET

= Ss SECRET


DISPATCH [—<725>

JAAREID FOR. mI

emtsphere Division

Chief, Western IK nd were seacat9

jomy QuKIrHD OOH
x 0ce ooo

Acting Chief of Station, Mexico Citys fe eceome

aa :
Om smittal of Document Receipt for LIONION Passports

acioa wauinio -terveancas —

Reference: HMMY ~ 17955, 11 June 1970

Forwarded under Separate cover is the document receipt

for the LIONION Passports,

for/Hovace E. PRALLETT

Attachment:
document receipt (u/s/c)
+ fecth

Distxribution:
vorig. and 2 - Chief, WD (w/att, u/s/c) ___.

£9 copy : a

2 FP hely ite
}

ass eesROE TO DISPATOH SYMBOL AND WUMBIN oat
HMMA - 39115 26 June 1970

SECRET 50-6-122/2

| CASSIOTON AGS Fut NuMBER



DISPATCH ir steast

Chief, Western

here Division —

Joie QuauO O45
jas wot WorUING

. ~

Chief of Station, Mexico City

wine’ — PBRUMEN” LIONTON” TECMS/Reqiicst Tor Revicwal of PBRUMEN Passports
“for LIONION-1' and LIONION-2

Action Required: Ronew passports and return

Reference : HMMW - 13,672, 3 June 1965

ia .1, Forwarded under separate cover in true name pouch are
the WOACRE PBRUMEN passports for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, issued
by Reference. These passports have expired, and the Station
understands that they can be renewed for another period. Due to
the sensitivity of the LIONION operation, Subjects cannot obtain
regular PBRUMEN documentation locally, and must have them in order
to leave México and return.

2. %It is requested that WOACRE revalidate the passports Ty
and return them to the Station for re-issuance to Subjects.

Julete lla.

for/John A. PROBERT

Distribution;
i Orig, and 2 - Chief, WHD

pod ae
as RUTAINCE TO Tap atGH TREK IHD TE foam eae
HMMA - 38843 27 April 1970
TaSNaON WB tw

SECRET 150-6-122/2



(SPAT

lef of Station, Hexico City |

Chief of Station, JEVAVS _

Action Required: See below

References: “A. HMMA-33841, 17 January. 1563
B, UFGT-21267, 12 February 1968
C. UFGT-21342, 22 February 1968
lL. Im view of references A and B and the suall cost involved”
im operating the impulse camera Headquarters will continue ‘to pro-

cess this film.
2. Request JMWAVE pouch the film cited in reference C to

Beadquarters for processing.

Ronald L. PERRODIN

Distribution:
Crig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City
1 - COS, JMWAVE

62 COPY 5O~6-I22 JR
CROSS REARENT CD TOISPATOH SYMBOL AMO NUMER aaa {Dae et
BMMW-16194 | 1 Harch 1968
Trey iid Fad wea
SECRET | 50-6-122/1, i

Caren aie —z
0 Ko 4G a
C}wH/1 iL Mar 68 we 'S, “kaufman

: | DISPATCH



a

ovenver wos, an
gated, The current aaa:
been taken this aatce

er EPEAPANE cams WIFER
ale Wority FRBAPAD

ethos

Ugace

apfebouse COXY-

\ de ymente
an ipcenesed to
secauas, Ls

yeiuetene fa sscer

arsoraanct with ASSEN Cuerew fen
tobe iAsome tee

wease Gus te foe saete Aurosved tec

athens: we recomiurat

rd aged tae



SECRET

Culef of Station, Kexico City
Attn:. Valter W, Corsnury
Culef uf Station, Pauama City

Chief, FOACRE

AQUATIC/LIONION \ é a
Techaical Information

Reference: IMsMA 31767 dated 11 April 1967

1, LIOHION 1 photographic results continue to be satisfactory
for all concerned, It ia therefore advisable that no changes in
proceduro be nade at this tine,

2s. It {6 apparent that LIONION 1 releyed the incorrect devel-
- oping ‘formula .for the pulse camera filo, Perhaps thie error is due to
‘Bis inactivity in processing such film for over a year. Since the
..Conception of this operatiun all pulse camera film has been developed
- fn U¥crodol.X. Oa"the other hand, Tri X film used in the LIONION 2
operation “(Pentax ‘casera and,Balscope) has traditionally been devel-
oped in Acufine.

3. All pulee camera film is processed at Meadquarters by an
automatic Huston system. Time and tesperature information which the
lab uses would be of Little value to your devolopmont procedure. The
results of your recent test indicate tbat it should be satisfactory
for ap occasioaal check on the equipment.

4. The differenco between Plus X Negative and Plus X Pas fila
is worth only one half "f£" stop, which should cause no problem if you

decide to use the Istter.

Albert J. LASCOFF

Distribution:
2 = CUS/Mexico City
2 = COS/Panana City

Group 1 - Excluded frop
gutosatic downgrading
and doclasaification

oe 35 April 1967"
SECRET
‘TSD/POB Rwy ery 2378
1 - TSD/Reg
= W/1
1 = w2
] - TSD/TOPS wH/) 25 Apr ‘Mr. Stewart by phone x6955
2 - POB files
: WH/2 " Mr, Hidalgo "= 5422
TSD/TOPS bat ur. in draft
TSD/COP

QUENTIN C, JOINSON



: LS. ss sstsee ron
. romtconty py

oii, Polly Pikevemo
ou WI/Logistics
br 6282

wt. <4" April 1967
DINE RENATO vo) oueer —)sarven to tee

LoCs¢4 Tsvd

ee O wor OQ meme

RID COPY | Bm

tone
Tension i ae 7 ieee ST

[secret ii 5.19 Oz cite oinector; 896 3

vo Mexico city D : ‘ : : q q

cron ton
REFERENCE: MEXICO CI7Y 0912 (IN 34374)* .

“PX PAN@417 FILM ASA 12S CAN BE USED BY CLOSING DONN CAMERA LENS ONE

HALE F-STOP SMALLER OPENING, ALTERATION 70 Qsy en NOT NECESSARY
witicH |}

REONS 559-S9-67 WILL FURNISH ASA 80, xvod NON- STocxen FIUM, FYI, e

STOCK NUNBER 6750-HO3-0513 IS FOR PX PAN-417 ASA 125, D0 NOT RE-ORDER

~ PXN-417 FILM BY THIS STOCK NUMBER,
END OF MESSAGE

LIONION Pulse Camera has been using PXN-417 film ASA 80,
but supply just received is PX Pan 417 ASA 125.

Telecoord: He
| of Ke

; a, citing TSD/POB, Dick Thay:
% : Z a
7 CaneRy fr. OL/So/CCDB, £atherine Van- ce Be
+ WIELTAN V. BROE as
: “c/w wi _& eyuy ioe
i : Seoddiarin one 7
blac SECRET orci
oon na.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.



wore Ov

vice moO ner, to oeace
srsteoy Oana,

aDvance COPY

: (a ROOT
PMCVR ZSDE ACES 4 Stinintish

SECRET Slisee Cite main Lit eric

DIRECTOR
LIOV ION TECHS hicey Pliatacy
REF A MEXICO cITy a6a1 Cv 247 rm) ee
BRAN NO 559-59-67 :
LION ION PULSE CANERA HAS PEE} USING PXN-417 FILM
ASAS4. SUPPLY JUST RECEIVED IS PX PAN 417 -ASA 125. IF
LATTER USED WITH SAME SETTING IN LIONION CAN HOS COMPENSATE
WODEVELOPMENT? IF WOT FLEASE MONITOR REF (B) AND EXPEDITE
SHIPMENT OF PROPER FILM.

SECRET SeenEy

ST .

NNN


CivTer , WOACRE Attn: GeoffreyK. BLOXALO Heeeereree

Chief, WHs- COS, Panama City (Clement be BROCK) eres

a
Chief of Station, Mexico city Az:

weer
GAQUAT IC /L TON TON Pulse Camera

TENN REGURED - REFERERS

Action: See paragraph §.

1, The LIONION Pulse Camera has been working for well over a
year with no major technical problem, A few months ago the 100 Foot
film magazine had to be repaired because the supply spindles had
tightened and put an excessive strain on the motor.

2. More recently, the battery supply had dropped to about
22.5 volts or so causing erratic operation, The sensor relay between
the VLS-2 and the camera suffered the most because of chattering and
consequently arcing between the points.

3, To prevent failures of this type in the future, Raymond L.
BARCENAS is making a small battery charger at a nominal cost that
- can be floated across the batteries keeping them fully charged.
We are doing it this way rather than ordering a OC power supply
becouse it 1s less expensive than a commercial model and will not
be bothered by house current interruptions or fluctuations. VF
however, WOACRE/P8 foresees any problems by doing it this way, please

inform us. :
b. On a recent visit to LIONION and a check of the equipment,
it was found that the lens of his FOCOMAT IC enlarger has a fungus

like smudge between the elements. We cannot detect any degradation
in print quality but would like b have a new one in case this is a

fungus and it gets worse.

5. In summation it is requested that WOACRE/PB provide the
following to Mexico City, charge 7135-2403.

a. . Sensor Relay believed to be a Patter-Bromfield 5A5089
but please check;

b. Comments on the power supply 5.

c. bens for a Leitz FOCOMAT IC.

bution:

WOACRE. + ie wy pws
Zo= WOACRE. 727" panama * CS COPY 42 Willard ¢. CURTIS ©

‘CHOSE REFERENCE TO SPATGR THE OD MIMD we ee

HMMA 31294 7 February 1967

a Gasman ar

SECRET 50-6-122/2



CASSIICATION

Aneto FoR INDEXING"

DISPATC! aa

rc)
Chicf, KURIOT Attn: Peter T. SWINEHART

X___ | No motxina atauiete

+ Tomy quauinio ore
CAN-SUDGE INDEXING

-[ m0
_ Chief, WH Olviston a
now ee

mICROFUA

Chief of Station, Mexico City

“swoner

UAT 1C/PBRUMEN/LIONION =~ Transmittal of 35mm Pulse Car

vineO - REFERENCES.

Reference: MEX1-3960

mera

1, The attachment contains the defective 35mm Pulse Camera
previously reported In referenced cable. Very little acditional
information can be supplied, concerning this mechanical fallure,
other than that reported fn the reference. This particular camera
was installed on 16 June 1965 and operated normally from that date
until the afternoon of 28 June, at whlch tlme It began to continually
i Hugh T. FRANCOTTE entered the LIONION Photographic

blow fuses.
basehouse that alght, and when It was found that the problem could

not be corrected on the scene, the camera was removed and taken to
MKCHARITY for further troubleshooting, It was finally discovered
that the shutter motor was malfunctioning and partially burned-out.
Joseph M, RESCIGNO stated that since there was a definite "short"
In the motor, this would cause the camera fuses to constantly blow,

2. Also Included in the attachment are two (2), one hundred
foot capacity, film magatines, Both of these magazines are faulty,
causing the Film to jam, They were both In use with the previous
Pulse Camera which became inoperative during late May and was
forwarded to KURIOT Headquarters for repair. FRANCOTTE had two (2)
new magazines in stock, and they were Issued to LIONION/I for use
with the camera presently telng returned for repair or replacement.

Willard C, CURTIS

Attachment
Camera
Film magazines
7 Grete : 5 tary figs SOG

Olstributions.
2 > KURIOT, w/atts
= WH, w/o-atts™ : =
Gow niaince 10 OISAICH SmaGL ANG RONDA oni

wo] Ms = 26520 1_duly 1965 ___

CLASSIFICATION, Os Fue rune

SECRET $0-6-1K



- 7

&

Di

" Paasporta for LIONION. -t-and 2. Cave 5670, 5670-A

ATi AIRED = PPAR

ACTION REQUIRED: Paras2, 3 *

REF: HMMA-26017, 4 May 1965

4) New pavsporte were issued for LIONION -1 aad for LIONION 2 ia
accordance with your.roquest, Thess documents ae well oe the 2 old pa
port are being seat to you in true asme pouch,

Have a validity period of 5 yeare from d

eign one copy of the documéat recelpt form accompanying

the documents,

3.° When the LIONIONS -1 and 2 have received their immigration papers,
please try to send the original documents to KURIOT for a brief examination.
If they cannot be seat, KURIOT would like to hava color-annotated photo~

coptee of them,

LEON T, CISSEL

ATTACHMENT: | envi.
1, Documeats, U/S/C/T/N/P

DISTRIBUTION:
3 - COS, Mexico City, w/att

pert

SES

! onice 7 Trier
t- TSD/REG Parcells veo
2. WH/L COORDINATING
1-+ Case 5670 orreeynen T aise ernie KOE

1:+ Case 5670-A
1+ AB/4 Files dit. Ms, Spera, by Phone X=

1'- AB/4 Chrono
of - RID/AN



wows ees Oe oa — \

ecissiiscrelviicine! LgASSIF HED MESSAGE tore corey So

were t free nt.
these OES
One.

Chee acCeak
7)

SECRET 2916512

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 3960 =
29k nO) 364 .

AQUATIC PBRUMEN LIONION i

PRpuL SE CANERA BEGAN CONTINUALLY PLOWING FISES AFTERNOON Za vine «

FRANCOTTE PERFORMED BASIC CHECKS THAT NIGHT AND REMOVED CAMERA
FURTHER TROUPLE SHOOTING MXCHARITY. TRONELE BELIEVED TO SE



ties

pense |

[nate to Pe no.

© pesteoy Osta.

ween Qees Oo = - i
euasseey ro rite KO. IFIED MESSAGE rors wv

ACPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ST fee
2

ree me act. to eaancy

Ss

E CRE T 1718152

DIR CITE MEXI 3829 7
ASUATIC PBRUNEN LIONION 174n651N92775
REF TM 593898, 8 JUNE 1985.

PULSE CAMERA CABLES FORWARDED VIA REF, RECD 16 JUNE. CANERA
INSTALLED AND TESTED SAME NIGHT AND IS OPERATING SATISFACTORILY.

SECRET

cru
etn


Pee eee

marcto rou weexINO

| | NO NDERING REQUIRED il

__Ghiefs_KURIOT.
INFO. Chief, Wii Division

-_* Chief of Station, IMWAVE
a nace

ee ef of Stations Mexis i
waiter ; :
_AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/Lssuance of LIOMION Pass

‘ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN R:OGE INOCMING

MICROF

iCRO-SER.

TEMON REQUIRED = REFERENCES

(A) 3 96 a? NOVS 1973 |
References: (A) MEXI 3234, 28 April 1965 L-
(B) DIR 06231, 1 May 1965 a MICROFILMEO

i. Attached (USC) are the expired genuine PBRUMEN
pasaports of LIONION-1 an¢ LIONION~2 together with two: photo-
fraphe and five signature specimens of each agents

fife

A

2, It is requested that new PBRUMEN passports be

N
)
prepared by. KURIOT and pouched to the Station as soon as Rs
possible, Qe
a :
3, The assumption of reference B that passports rd
obtained at the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City are actually 3
2

iasued in the PBRUMEN Capitol City is correct.

2
«

4. The old passports should be returned to the Station ga
aa the Mexican immigration visas appearing of pages Tl and19of 35°
the LIONION- and LIONION-2 passports, respectively, must be eas
in the possession of the Subjects until they are granted their final BODY

e3se2

ir

igration documents.

Attachment:
As stated - (USC)

Distribution ~

~ y 2 - C/KURIOT w/att (USC),
1+ CAVHD w/o/att +4 wilt
1 - COS, JMWAVE w/o/att - Crk fuck

tS gery
wie art be ye. Soe 38)
PEs ase ET oi

GOS eee TO
COIS P- YS HMMA-26017 4 May 1965
—eiAssTICATION as Wit NUMBER

50-6-122/2

| SECRET |



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET

iMMA-26017

5, Tho Station is investigating through LICRAFT -I the
passport issuing. service in the Miami area, as mentioned in reference
cables, and will forward details in separare Lr. espoatssca,
Exan:ples' of Miami-issued passports will be made available for

Headquarters ‘perusal,

6, The Station wishes to express its appreciation to
KURIOT for prompt action in response to reference Ay

we Feather.
Willard C, CURTIS

PAGER

SRSA

SECRET


PAB ito MESSAGE Toray cones

” Zone Qh ewer
LREPROOLET ICN PECMIB ITED

pP een ee cruvese

CDIR WAVE CIT: X32,

paguaTic’rypicL onion
Y

1. PBRUMEN ORDINARY PASSPORTS FOR LIONIONS 1 AND 2. HAVE

EXPIRED, SUBJS CANNOT TRAVEL FROM -MEXI BECAUSE NEXI GOVERNMENT
WILL NOT ISSUE REENTRY PERMIT IN EXPIRED PASSPORT, PSPRIME GOV
WILL NOT ISSUE VISA IN ABSENCE MEXI REENTRY PERMIT. NEXI GOVT
g obANDS PAT EXPLAINING, RIGHTLY, THAT PBRUMEN EMB WILL ISSUE NEW R
‘PASSPORT TO ANY PBRUMNEN CITIZEN REGARDLESS OF POLITICIAL
SLEARNINGS HENCE LIONIONS MUST GET NEW PASSPORTS.

: 2. FOR REASONS OPERATIONAL SECURITY LIONIONS CANNOT VISIT EMB
H r .

FOR NEW PASSPORTS SINCE HEY KNOWN BY SIGHT TO EMB PERSONNEL AS

MEXICAN NEIGHBORS. THIS SITUATION RESULTED IN COMPLICATED anp

EXPENSIVE CXO ESCORTED “BLACK” BORDER cORSSINGs BY LIONIONS LAST
YEAR WHEN THEY VISITED RELATIVES IN PBPRIME

E 6
R ’3. CAN HQS OR JMWAVE ISSUE NEW PBRUMEN PASSPORTS FOR BOTH
1

c AGENTS? PLS CABLE PROCEEDURE. MEXI FREPARED POUCH OLo FaSSPORTS

c
Sano SPARE PHOTOS. LICNICNS WISH TRAVEL SOON, °
Y i

P
4. FYL JMWAVEs LICRAFT-1 RECENTLY PURCHASED TwO EXCELLENT’ ea ee

"Remove from Project DAFta nn)
amt CS Clasaifieaytons 50-4 -/
D 19-137 US SCE ayy
Boxt_2Y  Fold:__l- 7



ei ney

een IF ya Heart

ag tins BUSINESS, BELIEVE STA CAN GET



ciasmreanion

Peter T.

Chief, KURIOT Actne

Chief, WH Diviston ~

"Chief of Station, Malco Clty

Ikon Television System

juke
ia AQUATIC/Operational -- Availability of the N

“ACTION REGUINIO - RNTaENCES

1. At the time of ‘Hugh 1, FRANCOTTE's departure from Head=
quarters, KURIOT had recently beyun an extensive evaluation of
the Nikon closed circule television system. If this particular
system I's now considered "operational", FRANCOTTE wishes to be
so advised, as there may he a-possible application for tt tn
Support of an operatton at the Mexico City Station. Lawrence Fe
BARKER was recently briefed. by FRANCOTTE on the Nikon system,
and Is now Interested In obtalniny additional facts concerning it.
BARKER, who Is responsible for the LIONION Project, foresees a
possibility for its use In the LIONION Photographic basehouse.

2. (It was thought that perhaps the system could bi further
“operationally tested" at this baschouse, and at the sar time,
the Station could examine the possibility of a permanent! Instal=
lation, Presently, LICNION/} Is utilizing a Balscope ai Pentax
camera for obtaining photographic coverage of the outa ob to the

PBRUMEN Embassy. Provided the televislon camera could be equipped
with a telephoto lens of about the same focal length as tne
combination of the Balscope and 20X eyepiece, this sys might

be a suitable substitute for the equipment now In servi .

3. tt Is requested that the Mexico City Station be advised
IF the Nikon television system Is available, and Headquarters
thoughts concerning the testing of It at the LIONION basehause.

Willard ©. CURTIS

“CROSS REFERENCE TO.

Distribution: > i
i eer KURIOT ae
‘8 C5 cory FILED IW 4% = 6-199 7 |
a |
|

io ee
7 B1Baten SrmOOT AND NOLETE IE

iene | HMMA=25961 29 April 1965
rear WES rit mae
| $0-6=122/1

SECRET



1D Inpex

te inOOx
FILE IN CS FILE NO,

moe IC) CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR

”

INFO i CITE DIR 7

\ | sguaTIC LIONION i - a

| REF MEXI 098%: (IN 79741)*

: _ 4. PULSE CAMERAS BEING MODIFIED AND RECONDITIC
we connect FAULTS SURFACED DURING LIONION OP. sere er wn

EVALLABILITY FIRST CAMERA TEREE WEEKS PROVIDING NO UNFORESEEY

“ BY CONTRACTOR

“DIFFICULTIES CCCUR.
= I? PRESENT CANERA ANCPERABLE SUGGEST RETURY TO ROBOT AND

VLS-2 OR K-100 WITH BURST BRACKET AND VLS-2 FOR INTERIM OPERATIONAL

COVERAGE.
3. A SECOND CAMERA WILL BE SENT MEXI AS SCON 4S RECONDITIONING © ft

—

CO:PLETSD FOR USE STANDBY.
~ END OF MESSAGE -~

TSb/CMMENT: *LIONION pulse camera malfunctioning.
Reauest Hq forward replacement.

W/t/Mexico kiss Bustos by phone niceS

ye tr. Ericson in draft
/ rou
nisi “DpSsl
C/TSD/OA

COORDINATING OFFICERS
aurmenricarina
SECRET : 1cem

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROFHBITEO. Copy Now

