‘fod-10433-10043) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BOOM 1264

aman af Invectipation

Attanthons ir. Se Je Pepich : |

WAL os Pegsty Pliyéter for Mans

ds conecrning preps
“4, Ire Meferenca
to vinlt tow, italy, on 18 and 19 Sestater

2. This tronez has received the Telleosing infor ation on’
ct fia a savres W153. 49 corsiderod wmolicble, | ~ :

36 “Vite Aposy Le wrislo to evalvate the eleva report. :
he The inforabisa in perasrech tea hig Loon made avsilable ace
to: . : :

\

6.75315 /o2951-6h

: (ay Koverter: 194k).

ee APPROVED FOR RELEASE
i fe SNS pete (eee 92 2
VL~,  (292-760766)
i 2! ine
Baood ont | dated 20 %etober 196}

Copy



13-00000

30 NOV 1964

tO 2 Director
Tevevol Faure of Lrestigztioa
Attontions

Wi ok Tepsty Tawetor far Mans -
‘i z

SULSECT ¢ Harkin Tuther KE, Ire

1. Tefcrenca Ja-rnda to a eostinication fron your. Purese
dated 23 Aanst 9a cee

ze This Ixenoy haz recaived the felloxing infor: sabion on
fray s sou? Mao.de considered weelleble, Tr, irbin
st with various leaders of the Ttalian Gancunist
ord of the Itoltinn Sockolies Perty (731) on 18
1904 tn Torte, fa disoucsed with these Itelien
tha prouria.of deronatestions egeinst osgregsticn tn
od in Yt tally ducing 0
tely conferred with POL

3. Wale spony ts winble te cyalusts tho ebaye reperte

55 19316/02051-Ch

(2h Seventer: 196)
Distributions
‘Easod ont dated 20. October 196),

NPPRIVEG FOR.AELEASE <

tute 2/7, Casi

(Pe)


13-00000

nN $ i€rest:
Fetorsd Tureau of Lwvectipstion
Attantions Ore S. Je Pepich

FU 8 Reguty Plavétor for Mans -

: 1. Tofcrense to rndo to a eorsunteation fran your furan
dated 23 Aazist 194) concerning proncs: jai

of -ckrtin Inther x y Ire Vefercncs
to vinlt Fone, italy, on 10 ani 19 4

Rar 13th

ney has received the Selloring infor ation on
ISI 23. we corstlarod wrelisble, Tre Harbin
wath v. 2s of the Ttnlitan Conunist
(eat) on 16

Be thle Apeossy Le umble to evaleate the clove reports,

has Loon nado evsilabls

‘ he the infarabioa in porasrech tes:
to your faresuts ba iad ahs in Towe

eee : 7
C3 se/iaasiect : _ nei
oh : J
we/L/oEf rR. Broclancyer ans (2h Koverbar. 1964) \ul nf
‘Tis tribution: Heed ae 2 cal DENT
Orig & 1 = fddressco : by supe 0
L- CI date

Am Cifien FU a 27. BO NOT pr
A = Bre LL TEXT COrY - BO NOT RELEASE

2 = 15/k/cs [Ee
Baood ont OiKT~6733 dated 20 Sctober 196h (00-2 x

