# 104-10186-10068

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10068

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTEUECEILE AGENC

This ma refres saa tetra tabo

mad. 10 en

SEC

SO FORETAS BESSEN

COUNTRICUbA

SUBJECT InU REVAN

PoN: (501-316/81631-65

sart OST 1l FeDrUaTy 1955

No PacEs. I

HEFERENCE

DATE 071964

INFO.

PLACE & Washing:on, D.C.

DATE ACQ. December. 1964

HELD SPORE

RETURN T

anckground Use Only

Not froproduce

THIS IS UNEVAIUATED

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer no served vIts the Cubas lntelligence

Service untal April Isth.

Headquarters Comests

The following report is OnE sf = series containing personality

information provided by the sou-re dad includes supplenentai

information frou the recores of ElIs agency. i

It 1s requested the the diresinous dake do retion on any ol

the individuals neettoned in the personality reports withoet

first checking with thas taracy-

When source joined tie Direcrn General de Inteligencia

(General Directorate of InItiligeNCE - DGID, Emu REXAS naS

working at the beadquariers ullain

When

the lA Departsert

was in existence. De mis chief of aureau Do, 2. RESIS NIS

also, at one line, the desk sifter far El Salvador in the

Seccion Central (Central

imerican Jer ion) of the Departamesto

de Liberacion NaCIOEl - LID In It DEI.I

Headquarters Comment

The records of this isemy remal no ideatillable taforatica

on RENAN.

5

4

2

SECIET

10 FIRE LES DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

103

REP

FER 2

CINCLAYT

CINCSO E

IS"S

(Nore: Frald distribution indecated by " y')

INFORMATION REPORTENINE@RMALFONTREPORT

AH'SA EARLI

LILLIA

I 3354

REGA ISONE SAYER)

HiLLSA/R

JO PROJECTLANT. G1;

CERCUATINE

TOTALNH/SA 8 (1), NE 1 (2), EI ERE I

=*-5-1

FOR'I NO

NOD

---

