s =
‘*404-10216-10234) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ee BRET yy assy

a Rat Sect

1 July 1964
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Test of Open Sight Hood for 7.62un Belgiua (FAL) Rifle

RRYERENCE: A) Memo for Red, dated 25 May 1964, Subject: PAL-
‘| Bilencers/Sights, from C/WH/SA/MOB/PE e

See eererrorast B) Mexo for Rcd. dated 10 June 1964, Subject: Teste
fe a Of Modified Sights for 7.63 Belgius (FAL) Rifle

1. On 15 and 16 June 1964, the undersigned and Mr, Bob
Ricker, T3D/8DB went to Isolation to test an open sight hood for
the 7.62an Belgium (FAL) Rifle Seveloped in ansver to Ref. A.
i The Modified Williazs peop sight developed previously in answer
i to Ref. A end reported on in Ref. B. proved unsatisfactory to the
H requester, The snap-on sight hood was then Seveloped on a quick
reaction basis to bo simpler to install and easier to use than
- the Willians sight. In addition soso improved underloaded 7,62m8
HATO rounds having eoft. annealed cases and cream of whest filler
wero tested for performance, These vere developed in hopes of

the arretio conmnision periorannce, noted. sa.Ret Pe saping ios’.

EE 2. Tho open Sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight
of the PAL rifle, and in thoory makes shooting in poor light or
St bight easier, It can be used with either standard factory

- loads or the underloaded assunition in conjunction with the muzzle
‘attachment silencer. The notch on the rear Bight hood is "U" shaped
. and raised to compensate for the nore curving trajectory of the low
velocity ammunition. The hood is easily detached making the con-

ventional peep sight evailable any time it ig desired,

3+ The attached date sheet summarizes the test results, It

Was found that some familiarization vas necessary to get used to

~ thé open sight. Under ident conditions the sight vas as easy to 7

- use as the peep sight although it was nore difficult to maintain +
uniform vertical Brouping. The relationship between the eyo and

Fear sight was found to be very critical. As the tests proceeded ~

& change vas noted in the point of impact ws. point of ais which was

thought to be due to a change in sight picture on the t cf the
undersigned, : anna aie

- 4. The improved amsunition was found to be quite consistant
-4n performance, The use of crean of vheat filler to tamp the powder -.
charge against the primer was aa attezpt to get mors even ignition it
ith correspondingly improved accuracy. The expended cartridge

“4 Oviderce was. found of the >. =
cs soft annealed cases not expanding properly, During the teste the :
Pastnion Fifle and ammunition combination instilled &@ Gogree of confidence

ip the undersigned not present in the previous teste.
{



a@
ve

5S. Test @ conducted in the evening to determine the degree
of usefulnes: he sight in poor light. In this respect a 22
Caliber Hi-Standard pistol with folding shoulder stock and Bushnell
1.3X Phantom scope was tested in comparison. The scope was
@quipped with yellow filters to brighten the sight picture for
: low light level use. It was the opinica of both test personnel
i +» + that the ecopo was superior to either the peep sight or open aight
Hy fom as long as their vas some illumination on the silhouette
targets. Once the light failed the scope was completely useless
although the undersigned could still discern targets with the nated
eye out to 50 yds. All actual shooting was done with the open
" sight and some difficulty was experienced in hitting the targets
at ranges of 100 yds. or sore even at dusk. The closer targets
could be easily hit up until it becass ico darz to see them at all.
A large rain cloud poving from behind the firing position g@raduslly
obscured all available light. For the final shooting at 25 yds.
occasional lightning flashes gave only a vague awareness of the
target location. At no time during the night trials was there an:
“pugele flash visible fron the under loaded assunition and muzeTe =
Biloncer coabination. @ gas por’ was ‘6 OFF position
ar ie day Tials was turned on at night but no flash vas
visible at tho breech. A fine white cloud of cream of wheat
povder was visible in front of the muzzle at almost full darkness
but could not be seen zore than 30 feet Fe .

6. Listener trials vere conducted the following day to deter-
wine bow far away an alert listener could discern the mechanical
‘noise of the mechanism and that of the round being fired. Mr. Ricker
Walked avay downvind at an sugle of 90 degrees to the line of fire
and stopped to listen every 25 paces. The undersigned fired
. Single rounds, (hand actuating the nechanise) each time Mr. Ricker
Stopped. At 335 paces, or roughly 275 yds., Er. Ricker raported eee
be could still hear the mechanism being actuated, the round being
fired, and the bullet striking a concrete Pillar 200 yds. down-

_ Fange. However, he stared that he night not have noticed the sound
a@t that range had he not been listening for it Specifically.

* 7%. One of the major causes for concern at the start of the
tests was that the cream of wheat filler might clog the silencer
and rendor it ineffective. A total of 200 rounds were fired with
the silencer in place and the noise level did seen to be higher at
the finish of the second day. (Round numbers 180 to 200 were the
ones expended during the previously mentioned listener trials)

- Inspection of the silencer at a later date revealed considerable
 Gream of wheat residue in the screening. Sound level measurenenta
wade in the AM? sound lab showed that while the total noise levei

"Was no higher, the duration was relatively longer, This would

. make the siloncer seen louder to near by observers but not increase ©
the range at which it could be heard. However, from a stand-

point of the ability for a listener to discriminate a ailencer

_ beiog fired from randoa noise, the longer duration gives hin a

=: better chance to recognize what he hears.



8. On 19 June 1964, the undersigned vent to the warehouse
at Franconia to try to fit the sight hood to other 7.65mm FAL
rifles. It was suspected that the fit might be a problems when it
: s Would not fit over the rear sights of three FAL rifles at Isolation.
Although it was later determined that tho three fifles. wore of a
different lot and pay therefore have different tolerances on the :
rear sight casting, it was felt that further checking was necessary.
4 Mine PAL rifles from the same lot as those obtained by WH/SA/MOB/PH
were unpackaged and the sight hood tried on tho rear sight. Of
the nine, tuo were perfect fits and the other seven too thick .
for the hood to fit, This created a problem in that the eight
hoods bad to fit rifles which for operational reasons could not be
measured before hand to determine the thickness of the rear sight
blade. Providing adjustment in the slot of the sight hood would
have complicated the fixture to the point whe: it could become
“Operationally unsuitable. Therefore it wac determined that the
best solution was to provide eral small files with the hoods.
The peep sight on the rifles, a soft casting, was found to be
‘ ’ quite easy to file. In most cases it would be necessary only to
file several thousandths to obtain a proper fit. This procedure
was oxplained to C/WH/SA/HOB/FM and he stated that it would bo siaters
acceptable. : Ee .

_—— >
é 9. On 24 June 1964, three open sight hoods with accessories
sisting of two files and a small screwdriver were turned over

to C/WH/SA/KOB/PM., In addition, 400 rounds of improved under-

j xe loaded ammunition with cream of wheat filler were provided as a
de /. weplacenont for the original 400 underloaded rounds.

} : : e z

: thy sy 10, On 39 Juno 1964, it was discovered that a scope was availab)
: 7? Y Zor the 7.62mm Belgium (FAL) Rifle (Sniper Version) and in the Agency
supply syeten. Steps are being taken to obtain 2 scope for +
evaluation, The results will be forwarded to C/#H/SA/MOB.

i
i
i
i



T4o0000

/ POINT OF IMPACT
RANGE RAMP SETTING SIGHT TYPB . (RELATIVE TO FOUN. or am
100 yde, No. 2 "Peap ( On
100 yds. No, 2 Peap ; On
100 yds, No, 3 | Open 24” high
100 yds, No. 8 -" Open Hoof. 26" high

STANDARD VELOCITY AMMUNITION, DAYLIORT:
f
4M

§
{ -@RLOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN s10RT; #000, DAYLIGHT:

POINT Of IMPACT -
RANGE RAMP BETTING (RELATING. TO POINT oF AM)

23 yds. No. 2 3" high, ;
28 yds, Ko. 6 3" low ¢ L
$0 yds. No. 6 On 7

75 yds, Ko, 6 4" left; 4" low

100 yds, Full Blevation 6" left, 8" low
100 ydx. Full Elevation On (Dirt. Shooter)
100 yds, Full Blevation 8" lefe, 8" low
125 yds, No 2 e" left, 18" low
125 yds, Full Blovatios . On (Cuanged Sight, Picture)

1 § ‘
8 (2 miosed 4
target) | 4
8 @ missed <7

150 yds, }ull Elevation On (cagaged Bight Picture)
; target) 7

. Y
» yds, Pull Elevation 6° low-(Changed Bight Pic-
. fe ture)

SLT TORE PET Oe


1400000

’

»

veep ar ness

vOERLOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN GIGHT ROOD, yug. DARX:
NO, OF ROUNDS FO. OF HITS REMARKS

4

: RANGE
“ 78 yde.
<8: yds.

RANGE
28 yds,

. wpe

ne

. UNDER OADED AIDIUNITION, ALMOST FULL DARK, ©
KO, OF ROUNDS KO. OF HITS”
10 ~
10

10

‘Could target
clearly

sight Gat no rounds &
/ wore fired, rue
Could age target at eas ‘nt
‘clearly with 1.3%

SIGHT HOOD: |
BOREZONTAL SPREAD VERTICAL SPREAD _
og a a ; .
10 : > targets out to
- 200 yas ‘with filtered.
scope at start of . oi
firing, could not’ wes

“at; ati. w/scope et.
_ Faatohy, tty ,

5 (ocattored) Targot in total darkness, rain cloud overhead, inter .
mattant lightning flashes gave vague avarencss of
* target docation, . : . .

