# 104-10186-10056

## Page 1

00000

104-10186-10056

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MINFORMATTO

"REPORT INFORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM,

-COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSC1-316/00733-65

SUBJECT "S1IV'an0» (an alias)

DATE DISTR

16 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES. •

CS 311/00115-64

(page 9)

INT. ** 1964

INFO.

8 July 1964. RETURNTO CIA

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

Background Use Only

DẶTE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

Do Not Reproduce

MIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION. SOURCE GRUDINOS ARE DEPINITIVE. APPRAISAL. OR CONTENT, IS TINTATIVE

SOURCE, A fOrmer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following. fapart.ig one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

he individuals mesiloned in the personality reports withou

irst checking with this Agency

"Silvano" is the Paraguayan desk officer in the Seccion Sur

(South American Section) of the Departamento de Ulberacion Nacional

(Nattonal Liberation Departaent - LN) of the Direccion General

de inteligencia (General Directorate.of Intelligence - DGI).

2.

"Silvano" was born between 1935 and 1940 and source

believes that he is a Cuban citizen. He is about five feet ten

inches tall, weighs about 140 pounds, and has a thin build.

1s a Caucasian and has black, mary hair, a large, pug nose, and

a thin, black mustache.

neck, and white, uniform teetrapo" has a thin face, & long, thin

Headquarters Comments

The records

on "Silvano, of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

INAV.

1 AIR

iNSA

IMAX

I OCR

FBI 2

CINCLAST CINCSO # I&NS

(Nolas fiold distriberton indirared by "'I".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION-REPORT

HH/S/EOB: L NE /5R

I LEECUADALI

LICH/REA

RIDLAN

4X 2358

UFGA 19445 14Jan

NO PROJECT(AMML

CSC1.310, 00133:65

/COOTOMMATIME: RELEAPING

WEL/SAVE

POrALS WH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIS, RID

FORM NO 1

DESOLATE PRETIOUS SUITIOTA

1.9-5-1

KIRSA

4др

---

