# 104-10218-10094

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10218-10094

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

d s

SECRET

17 OCT 1962

FEHORANDUY FOR: chiof, cI/0A

FROM

: Deputy birector of security (Investigations

and Oper tional Support)

SUEJECT

9483 492

*216 26,

lo hofuence is mie to your remorandun vated 21 September

1962 requesting an appeciate invostization of su-juct in coc-

noction with hur use

uniss an Oporational Approval as an Informant

by WH/ 3 1n

Lorico.

Foference

Is a13o nace to our menorandums of

6 October 1960 and 1 May 1962.

2.

As we advised on 1 Oeüober 1962 i scärch of our Indices

on Subject disclosed note-northy and derogatory information which

1s availablo con revion ij your ortice.

The Subjoct's Security

office file consists oi siree volumnius volutes inich include

the resulis oi polygrash exaninacions and technicil surrellances.

i chock of irl on 1 October 1962 bargered to nincteen rel reports

and letters nich more fordirded

ce this agency.

A COOT

of the

FbI menorandum is attacied.

It is assured

that

copies

of these

reports and letters are ivallable to jour orfico.

3: -

In les of the note-orthy in questionasle information

reflected above,

it is recommended that no contact boyond assesy-

ment be permitied at this time.

In view of the voluminous

Infor-

rition available on the visject and subjoct's controversial

background, this office will not conduct an aacclinal investi-

Eation on the subject unti

she linle note doriay ind scross-

tory infornition has bear roviered tacroughly.

FOR THE DIRECIOP OF SECURITY:

pictor a Pinsto

Attachnent:

FBI

memorand um

SECRET

GROS 1

Exchast than satagatic

declass. rca.tan

---

