2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN

LS
7 ae CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This moteriel contains uommation affecting the National Defense of the United States withia the mesning of the Espionage Laws, Title
1B, U.S.C. Seca. 793 and 794, the transmission oF revelation of which ia a1 usauthonsed person is prohibited by law. i‘

ii NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/ : 1
_—_NO_DISSEM_ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY PAGE 1OF 2 PAGES

‘TniS 15 AN INFORMATION REPORT, UGi FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NO. CS DB-312/01409-68

S-E-C-R.

: DATE DISTR. 28 June 1968
‘ Country Cuba -

por, “Late April 1968 ' :
° s =
SUBJECT Prison Break at E] Principe Prison fo ttle
in Havana ;

aca Canada, Ottawa (25 June 1968) FIELO NO.

‘SOURCE An official service: from officials in Havana.

1. In late April 1968 there was a successful prison
break at the El Principe Prison in Havana.: A group of
prisoners escaped by digging a tunnel to the courtyard of
a neighboring hospital. After the escape, ex-Major t
Rolando Cubela cades, who was convicted in March 1966 eee
for plotting to\assassinate Fidel Castro, was transferred 7
from El Principe 2. oe ira in Oriente Province. }

Qu

ae Saar ee oats

7 a

2. It was rumored tnat Huber Matos, imprisoned since
October 1959, was one of the escapees. However, according
to the wife of a prisoner in La Cabana Prison in Havana,
Matos and 20 other political prisoners were still in Gal-
lery 23 of that prison. Although none of them wore prison
uniforms, it is said that the authorities stopped being
severe with them on this count.

i
j
i

3. Field Dissem: None.

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/ :
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY _7), S-IEIASY
=

Sabena eaentnet

OTTAWA-5480
(IN-37968)
NP (SMACT-1)

1E 2, C
WH/C 9 (2

14
EUR 2

sven mmmell aT neon =
ony as
