# 104-10120-10377

## Page 1

104-10120-10377

=

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Backgreund Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

§ Pebruary 1961

HONORADUL FOR: Chiof, Central Cover Group, tonofficial Cover

ATTERTION

: Hir. Thomas K. Strange

SUBJECT

: Cover Support for Als Psychologists

Participating 1n S2/10 Rocruitment Program

REPERENCE

: Meno to C/CC& fr. SR/10, Atto Ir. Phonas Strange,

Subject:

Basic Proposal for Adt Assessent of

Potential FEDSKIN Agent Candidates, dtd 2 Fab 61

lo A gunmary of lates participation in the SP/10 recruitrent

prozzar was included in roierenced nemorandur. It is pianned to carry

out the assessment assignment as follons yAn Alli assessment psychologist

documented as a consultant of (Psychological Assessuent Associates) *111

contact an unwitting candidate for the S1,10 lausKIll program by telephone

or correspondence. The candidate will be infored that the consultant

i3 acting on bebalf of confidential clients in the industry, education

and governuent who have a varlety of assignments overseas of varying

duration and degrees of pernanence. If the individual indicates avail-

ability the assessment psychologist will contact hin in parson and carry

out an interview and whatever further assessment is possible under the

COVer.

2. Dr. Kenneth Bradt will ba the psychologist on the Air Steff

who will make the first assessients under this cover. lle entered-on-

quty with this Organization on 13 Decenber 1954 and is au pregent a 6S-13.

In addition to his Agency duties he is a psychological consultant for

she applied Psychological Corporation, Arlingion, Virginia. Dr. Bradt

has been an overt nember of the Agency during his entire career, with

exception: during December 1950 and January 1951 he was on a tHi

project, the cover for which was provided by the aparating division.

3. Iù is roquested that the appropriate documentation be pravided

20r DI. Brait and that the necessary stops be tzion to proteci his

engio ment with the agency.

do Although Dr. Bradt 13 the only nonber of the Nas Steff who is

to participate in this project, at this tino it is ansicipaüed that one

---

## Page 2

14-00000

* COULEN TO CIA

undersund Use Only

SUBJECT:

Cover Support for Aid. Psychologists Particiratingle Net Raproduce

in SR/10 Recruitment Progran

or more of the individuals in the attached list vill be involvod at

sometine in the futurc. Information 13 being provided on these individuals

at this time so that future requests for documentation and backstopping

can be arrangel with a minimm of delay.

JAE'S B. IAU, Chier

Assessient and Evaluation Staff

Attachment

2

---

