# 104-10098-10218

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10098-10218

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

.. CLASSINICAT

SECRE

BA!

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

1NO INDEXIME REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIMA

MICROFILA

TO

INFO.

FROM

Chief all ition, Mexico City

SUBJECT

LITEMPO/Operational Report i-31 October 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Reforence: HMMA-22366, 24 Oct 1963

1. Taska Assigned LITEMPO.

The following requeste for Mexican traneit visas for Cubane of intereet

to KUBARK were handled through the LITEMPO Project:

Date Requested

Referonce

5 May 1963

MERION

6 May 1963

MERTON

8 July 1963

CHOADEN

Name

TEIZELI, Ladvik

Action

Pending

(Subject applied through more than

one channel.)

VELIZ y Fernandez, J088 Domingo

Pending

(Subject applied through more than

one channel. )

ROSELL Sanchez, Ieabaldo

Pending

(Subject applied through more than

one charnel.)

(continued)

Distribution:

3 - WH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22437

CIASSIFICATION

SECREI

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

De Nol Reproduce

15650

DATE

7 November 1963

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-91

---

## Page 2

FORM

10.57 530

(40)

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CIASSIFICATION

SECRET.

SPATCH SYMROL AND NO

HASMA -22437

30 July 1963

DEGRIP

GONZALEZ Layva, Pedro

liqued 2l Oct 63

HERNANDEZ Peres, Landelina del Carmen

GONZALEZ Hermandos, Godoberto Gaudancio

CASTANON Dias. Caridad Luisa

GONZALEZ CaaranOR, Godobarto Adrian

GONZALEZ Castanos, Vivian

24 September 1963

JMZIP II

GONZALEZ Vila, Father Concepcion Issued Oct 63

Caridad

18 Oetebor 1963

UFGA 10806

CARMONA Rolova, Bolenad

COLMENARES CarDIons, Astondo

COLMENARES CASMORE JOBS

Ponding

b. DIR-69901 askod the Station to obtain a liar of all Cubana in Cuba

aWaiting transit visas to MeXiCO. Jeremy K. BENADUM leRraad thal

approximately four thousand visa applicants are amaltlag decisiona on Mexican

Vasa. These transli vinas aro sulborised lor lasuanco by tao Mosdcas Consul

¡= Havasa for a six months' pertod and valla lor travel al fifteen to birty day

1a Mexico. Obtaining a lios of parmona los ubom visas are authorized does

not secessarily indicato traval plans sinco the applicant has six monthe lo

astor Mexico.

c. On 2 October 1963 the Station adviDed LITEMPO that the Chinese

Coramunists in preparation lor Ibair comuercial exhibition to be hoid la

Decerabar 1963 were expected to ablp goods aboard a Britich ship "West Breese"

ubles was acheduled to arrive in Veracrus on 12 October 1963.

In thie shiprout

thoro was thought to be a largo anoual of Cammunlet propaganda. LITEMPO

was asked to latorcept this propagaada.

d. On the night al 23 October 1963 the Chiol of Station, Menico, anted

fOS LITEMPO support in sustating paradmol and rocovaring property ln a

BORDiLVO TYPIC operaton (WAVE - 6395 and rolatod cables).

The LITEMPO

group immediately sent an agoat to audiot the injured personal and plans have

bean mado tox a diacroos tacovory ol the prop-ty lavoived.

•. On the sight of 10 Ocrobor 1963 sso Stallon 88 and CP case oílicors

contaciod JOTOMY X, BENADUM and adbad that he Lave LITEMPO chack at the

airport 80 lears 11 Cloro Manual Sousa Batlate had mado rocervalions lo leave

Marco via a south-bousd airlino. The LITEMPO group was sakad to sodich

sabjoct and his luggago to doo 11 ho was carrylay irom $25, 000 to $50, 000 U.s.

dollaro mbieh ho vas to havo receivad from the Soviat Embassy la Maxico.

Tho LITEMPO group chocked all airlista and reservatione for south-bound

traval. In tha altarnoos of 1l October 1963, altes rocalving inatructioas iron

KUBARK Headquarters, the Station autod the LITEMPO groUp to mabe Do

search of subject or otharmino bindor hia traval. Subjoci departod on 12 Octobos

1963 via Guest Alrlines 0830 Righs for Panaras. In the event that subjoct bad

boen searched, SENADUM advised thar there le, su Mexican law which forbli

the carrylag of U.S, curreacy. They could have noted the cumbers al tho bille

but could not have confiacated the money.

z. Lialson.

•. The Chief of Brasion, Mexico, net with LITEMPO/l and 2 sevural

times during thia reportisg pertod to sai their sasistance in providiag support

to statios operations such as described above.

b. On 28 October 1963, COS, Mexico, passed one thousand rouade a

• 223 Call automatic ammanition to LITEMPO/l as a personal gilt for

LITEMPO/Z and LITENSOR.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

51.28, 51.28A AND 31.20

WHICH ARE COSOLETE

SECRET

ENE CONTINUED

15650

PAGE NO

2.

IM!,

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

MAINSICAT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HMMA -82437

Joan el rollo agulpmont for neo in protecting L/TBMPO/2 darlag the

On 28 October 1963 LITEMPO/1 anked COS, Mexico, 10r 82e

prosidentlal campalga, (See 10EX1-4619, DII-18868 and MEXI-6726 for datails.)

An of the and of Ostober 1963, 18 was well known that LITEMPO/2 wonld ba the

PRI candidate.

3. Frodaction.

•Dardas ihlo portod, the fallonlas seporis, operational cabla.

nd dispatRans verO bonsd on iNormation ObLIaL thIONIS LATEMPO MALCOE

MEX -

$72%

6698

6649

$979

6806

6489

6353

HAMA-

22308

22385

22366

22365

22353

HMA-

7952

7948

7862

1830

7836

7937

b. Passport Camara, Häl1A-12430 transmitled ihres one-bundred

Soes salle al lomro Klus lo Haadgrastars lor any furter «xpLo!ta8o». Goverag»

1os tha portod 1 thronja 22 Ocrober 1963 agala indicatod mochanical dilliculdas.

Approximataly (a2ty-11501008 do well asposed tile and the ramalslag devanty.

Siva loor la a portos al blaci shore sulgesriay that the camors may bare bees

droppod. The Stallos KURIOT tochalcian wIll axamine the canara aad tsy 8o

1. Parsensol

a. Thare bar: soen so chsnjos la parsonael ln thia Projocs ainca tho

leNs ropOrI. Homeres, Ubea LITEMPO/2 bocomes the preaidantial candidata.

some changea may ba nocanoasy.

D, There were so rocurity iscideata durtag this period.

s. Probiosse.

Nose.

6. Emergency Contact Instruetiono.

Thoro bavo boos so changos siace the previous report.

Wilard C. CURTIS

FORM

10-5 530

(10)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

51-28. S1-28A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

M, CASSPICATION

i...SICHET

....

__CONTINUEO

15650

TPAGE NO.

3.

sm/i

---

