# 104-10256-10081

## Page 1

104-10256-10081

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABCE SE RETARIAT DIS

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

AT:.

DISSEM BY_

ACTION

PER

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP I

SECRET ENCLOTO CRONTUTOMA

When Filled In

DOMMGRADINE AND

DRELGTTITICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

SLOTTED

INDEX:

YES

• NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

X-REF TO FILE NO..

FILE RIO O RET. TO

INFO:

RID COPY

PLE. CRUSA

$32

I A INTALS - SEEN BY

2 G027

7

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY 51G.

860

ISE CRET CR MAY 69 GITE GANGIOR GITE(ANGXOR)3055,

, INFO: DIRECTOR, (UTENTIANE

18- 1 26 MArE9 IN 66602

13-14

(MANILA) !

CHONG KÒNG,

DUAKARTA, C'OKYO,

(SEOUD,

REF: DIRECTOR®

15-0

13-20

88114 (SENT (BANGKOK) ONLY)

13-16

13-15

13-5

WE HAVE BEEN PLAGUED FOR SOME WEEKS NOW

BY MR. MITCHELL L. WERBELL III, VICE PRESIDENT AND

DIRECTOR OF R AND D OF SIONICS, ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

righ

WERBELL DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY

EXPERT, HAS A VARIETY OF WEAPONS TO DISPLAY, CLAIMS

TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL; AND LAST WEEK INTRODUCED

HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS CHIEF OF WOFIRM IN

amS. 27686

THAILAND.

20 WERBELL HAS A HISTORY OF SHOWING UP IN

TROUBLE SPOTS WHERE HE CAN MAKE A FAST BUCK. HE

IMPLIES THAT HE IS U.S. GOVT CONNECTED AND PRESENTS

A DEMONSTRATION OF A VARIETY OF EXOTIC

WEAPONS THAT NEVER FAILS TO IMPRESS. REF

DESCRIBES HIM AS AN UNSCRUPULOUS OPPORTUNIST WITH

A REPUTATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.

e/151C

SECRET

12/p0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TARIAT:

PERSON/UNIL NOTIFIED

10:

• ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

LASS LED "'-HAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET ARGUES POU PUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DXCLASSINICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

INDEX: " YEs. No

BY:

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

DISSEM BY.

ACTION

PER

X-REF TO FILE NO...

FILE RIO ORET TO

INFO:

_RID COPY

FILE. VR.

BRANCH O

18-5

PAGE 2 BANGKOK, 3055 SECRE I

3. WERBELL IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN, BORN 1919,

SERVED IN OSS, HAS SHAVEN HEAD AND HANDLEBAR

MUSTACHE. REF ADVISES THAI FULL DETAILS OF HIS

• BACKGROUND SHOULD NOT BE PASSED TO

SINCE

HE IS U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, STATES THAT

CAN BE INFORMED, SHOULD HE APPEAR IN: YOUR AREA,

THAT HE HAS AN UNSAVORY REPUTATION, HAS NO U.S.

GOVI CONNECTIONS, AND ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM SHOULD

BE APPROACHED WITH EXTREME CAUTION.

4. FOR SAIGON: WE UNDERSTAND THAT WERBELL

RECENTLY VISITED SAIGON AND DID HIS THING WITH GEN.

ABRAMS, WHO WAS SUITABLY IMPRESSED, AND WERBELL

IS NOW SETTING UP A SNIPER TRAINING PROGRAM.

5. FILE: 201-259910

SEAREI

JING AND/OP

•ALS - SEEN BY

10

..DESTROY SIG.

8 porch 1918

phila:

SECRET

31PV

---

