# 104-10161-10131

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10161-10131

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

214442

DATE

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD

29 November 1961

TO:

Ronor and Merit Awards Board

jection A

1. NAME OF PERSON RECOMMENDED (Last,

First, Middlo)

55IGNMENT

FROM: (Operating olficial)

Jacob D. Esterline

Personal Dato

2. POSITION TITLE

Ric riquet Contreot Agent

THE A DQUARTERS

3. GRADE

I4. SD

12-23 Boudr. -

7. HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, Zone, State)

Mam, Florida

TO. RECOMMENDED AWARD

Intela Madal of Merit

12. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN

FIELD (Specily location)

Fland, FlA.

8. OFFICE EIT. (11hqa.) D. CITIZENSHIP AND HOW ACQUIRED

Jaso

thra naturalliation

11.

POSTHUMOUS

YES

13. RELATIONSHIP

14. HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, Zono, Stato)

15. HOME PHONE

Section B

Recommendation for Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard

ib. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT

I.NO

Personnel in immediate vicinity or who assisted in act or shared in same hazard:

17. FULL NAME

18. ORGN. TITLE

19. GRADE

120. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

List any of the above persons given an award or recommended for award for participating in act:

1. FULL NAME

22. TYPE OF AWARD

onditions under which act was performed:

iS. LOCATION

24. INCLUSIVE DATES

ApF

a Sano 67

6. PREVARLING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

25. TIME OF DAY

822 horse

Section C

Recommendation for Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance

!7. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

:B. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

YES:

NO

24

OMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location

10. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Collection as info thru not operation

24

er surel who assisted or contributed substantia leo the service or performance

11. FULL NAME

34. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

ist any of the above persons given an oward or recommended for award for participating in the performance

3B. TYPE OF AWARD

7. INCLUSIVE DATES FOR WHICH RECOMMENDED

200 68 050n0.61

*ORM 600 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

38.

ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED

I NO

39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT

X YEs

I NO

3/R1

---

