# 104-10147-10392

## Page 1

104-10147-10392

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MUNGLASSLEIED

USE ONLY,

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optiona

• FROM:

Norbert

OX SADO 40

2D0109 Has

*TO:: "Officer designa

building

Shepaneky

ECEIVED

OLC/ Breckenridge.

2.

3.

EXTENSI

5:4.22

OFFICER'S

NITIALS

12 June: 19:78

Ple die handle

SECRET

My Gabrielson.

2 10he 78

lodge

Miss

Geness

can

de sorted

hold

we

Whe

events

oit

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15..

FORM

3-62

RETURN TO CLA

Backgreand Uas Only

Do Not Reproduce

21748

610 USE PREMOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

4-00000

KISSENIE:

SECRET

2 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Scott Breckenridge

Principal Coordinator, House Select

Committee on Assassinations

FROM

Norbert A. Shepanek

Office of the Special Assistant

to the DDO for External Oversight

SUBJECT

: House Select Committee on Assassinations'

Request for Richard T. Gibson's 201 File

REFERENCE

: OLC 78-1792/1, 28 April 1978

1.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations has 06,24

Es uested the 201 file of Richard Thomas Gibson. Mr. Gibson

Attached is a memorandum

from EUR Division suggesting that the HSCA narrow its request

to specific items or a period of time.

2.

Mr. Gibson was involved in the Fair Play for Cuba

Committee at one time.

If this is the basis of the HSCA's

interest, we could provide pertinent documents or segments of

the file

related to

this activity.

(Please note that the

HSCA identified subject to us with his FBI file number.

FBI documents were ours and not releaseable under Third Agency

Rule.)

3. We will take no action until we hear from you.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 062028

SECRET

VBe

---

## Page 3

SECRET/SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM FOR:

_FROM

• p.

SUBJECT

SA/ DO/O

ATTENTION: Mr. Shepanek

Cameron LaClair

EUR/ A

HSCA Request for Richard T. Gibson 201 file

1:

We have been informally advised by your office that

the staff of the House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) has come upon the name of Richard Thomas Gibson in

by the Committee for the file on Gibson, 201-306052.

on the Oswald case, which has prompted a request

2.

Mr. Gibson is anactive agent of this division,

resident in Europe and involved in sensitive current

operations. For this reason, we do not wish to make his 24

whole file available to the HSCA, given our obligations

to protect sources and methods in this case? If the HSCA

pertinent part of the file returned from Archives, searchec

to see whether in fact there are any particular documents

concerning the specific interest of the HSCA, and so

advise you.

chi

Cameron La Clair

CLASSIFIED BY :

022195

EXEMET FROM GENAGAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. 0. 1125E, EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

§ 5ü111. 691.159 0r 111 (41rsl one of Moro)

AUTOMAVILALLY iLÉLASSIFIED ON

impossible to determine

(unless impassible, insert dase or oreal)"

E CRET SENSITIVE

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

VBR

---

