# 104-10121-10061

## Page 1

104-10121-10061

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

.. SEGRET

7 July 1951

HENORANDUM FOR TES RECORDS

SUBJECT g

BELITSKIY, Boris Yerimorich

The following infamation pertains to the relationaly of

Alies BUSES and klerander DOLBEr

2. 00 24 September 1958€

then of 68/2/c3,20v18ed

Walter by McKINey RUSSELL Of ANCOMBo:

StA BELINKEY nO Tes A Russian official at the Mussels Mola

stated that aurishur is the head er the british dirtsicoo

Radio Moscow ant was an interpreter for tha Russians at the arushal

hosla vals. It tas understood that INLITSKIY hendled the fussier"

delegation for varIstLoy when le visited the World Feir. BELTSKIY

had previously bean in the United States ulth his father who vorked:

WIth ANTORG L0 ChO Late 2020s and euly 2930°5.

school in Her York Clo

03.

3°

stated that Carl Koch de Ki and, Ceoge, youkoy so wa.

melber

and stringer fos alcons botk

wet BELITSKIY.

16-21

1 Dualch cable 2447 dated 9 September 1958 states

that

DOLBERG had receited & letter from a lady friend (HOEBY) of LuB a

Brussels wheress she asked bin whether he had contacto with the

TOSFE publication for Broboda in order that she could tranemit is

strict confidence Iriendly citicisms of the mgazine Iron ber friend

(2 A300t slat to be cold le the lotter met nola

DDS/IOS

The proper people DOrMERl received an weld lettas contailos

construction sypathetle eriticians of Svobods and suggestions

ADDS/ lOS proving Its contents.

4: 37/IOS

/ ID

Attached 18 & diagrammatical sketch of the circumstances 88

" tO RELITSKIY prior to bis recrultment for the ATS.

lOoD

I AB

CI Support Dea

1SA3

75 B

July 196%

SECRET

GRITO CH

IT ES

---

## Page 2

6479010

5 Septeiber 1959

B0527,/ A2In0

Bosto

EnTire On 1 September 1955 kat be hed asterdos & courtal? sure

of hugast Cven by a Plas hline Most. le susted the do

Lorth amerlena lossparer Alllance, 1a abuut 3 yardo,

firod Pron a viro servico intue Us for loving leaked n

Considerilal angazine. le statol that the plara looto mta dol

ond is a colatco to state that she is a vory sons wises mole andeyco

after torting thera

non to Me. RiCH during bro cenparasy

stay

trchniefaa with jodho Moscono

then ho their ascepted sissys

Intitation be ashod Mas MOSBy sac to act aiy luiet laceo tyn oc

so the cocktali party walist is aparately 30 gato as

1a &be Unised Siarco 092-1932 warla ma lather vas en a predas

with Vesternera so that at other than social affairo than Estra

Vestem correstondents bo nerali elves a nod bus soes he le in stun

quite Selendigo

Ho apparently has less money than other corraagons

It was learned thai hehad saved a 1104ie see% cus ai & boss 200

thiel he miches to use do try out a byate he had devised to va

He had naked a Miss Frieda Buy uho is e correspondon as tha proas

at the Enoriison 1f she could del his l-to the Casino barenda cathous

hia hering to and dy croielalE. He voE jim 15g 40 go on the lub end

5ts of September.

Too Laroration was passed to Chita so colboe

Eston and asked is adastional intomation on bin could oucal.

he oprosanity presented Itself men Mr. MoCk Called me at 2

1e0aos

bafore offled hours on 3 september and sinted thee he had been wilted by

Furant to tase a ride so the country... I naked LOH to try and dot moro..

bosriphie data on BeLIsEr, taore are fantly was, this nio rather on

doings hou long he was going to be in Brunsola. On 5 Septaber Me, Boes n

under Start and arparently not too friendly to theregiuo but ras basteally

nationalistie.

I anked Ho Luch lI he had made an approach to han doo ao

said definitely no.

Meo SOCh is preparing a report alun all inkoraasxoo.

as seport will be forthconing ithin the nest die os threp dayto

---

## Page 3

ted, 17r.

no is do Passion yat

TIS

20LC

NOSC

2083221

ка д

CHOLTOREY

FANUDHSGATIER

2074 141

6-3,088

Vu.

LCRELE

DORIS

RIS ORE PETER

GRANTEE

pit,

reat

2dar21

WANNA D2V1510

C10999

c:a00 24

---

