# 104-10106-10363

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10106-10363

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES: /6 - 2

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

5

DRId: Lawrence R. Houston

UNIT: General Counsel

EXT: 6111

TATE: 12. February 1971

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

EY 23

_PER

_#.

CONF:

SECRET

OGC 2

FILE, VR.

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO -

_ BRANCH

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

/EUR 5, Yel, LEiz, DDP, ADDR, CSDO

• FILE RiO

(classification)

SECRET

(date and time filed)

.13. 02 282 FEB71

(elite)

(reference number)

CITE DIRECTOR / 1 0 9 ₴ 3

7

(pica

"To LONDON

RYBAT KEYWAY

REF: a. DIRECTOR 035476

20-1

b. (LONDON) 1678 (086965)

1. SUBJECT OF REFERENCES, HERBERT ITKIN, IS PROPOSED AS

DEFENSE WITNESS IN LIBEL SUIT AGAINST LONDON DAILY MAIL STARTING

MARCH - APRIL 1971. BASIS OF SUIT IS NEWS ARTICLE THAT PLAINTIFF HAD

MAFIA AFFILIATIONS AND ITKIN CLAIMS TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF SUCH

CONNECTIONS. THIS IS PURELY PRIVATE MATTER. ITKIN HAS NO RE-

PEAT NO CURRENT CONNECTION WITH JKLANCE AND HIS PROPOSED

TRAVEL LONDON FOR THIS LAWSUIT COMPLETELY UNRELATED TO

JKLANCE, ALTHOUGH THERE IS NO OBJECTION TO HIS APPEARANCE FOR

THIS PURPOSE. YOU MAY WISH TO ALERT SMORANGES,

cont.

RELEASING OFFICER

311P0

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

4-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING. AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

ORIGI

UNITE

ЕХТі

DATES

2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION •

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

BY.

_PER

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CONF:

zu

FILE, VR.

(classification)

SECRET

(date and time filed)

PAGE TWO

-то. Г

2.. NO OBJECTION YR DISCUSSING IN THESE TERMS

WITH LOCAL LNERGO REP IF HE RAISES IT.

3. CLIPS FROM PRESS COVERAGE, IF ANY, WILL BE

APPRECIATED.

5

6

- BRANCH

FILE RID

(elite)

(reference number)

CITE DIRECTOR //0983

pic

END OF MESSAGE

Zelllinese

C/EUR/BC

DC/CI

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1

sed from automatic

declassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

---

