/104-40176-10013

eos, :
: (en Filled ty ae
——

SBT OF COCUMENT,
SLLIGENCE
2 (Yuri RASTVOROV) Report

late | t 9
ee ae SouatE wees avai wa. BATE
£13. (DS-2072) +

20 Cave ronvule, BATE OF tar

18 Feb. 54)
ig EVALUATION

rr Gate vaOetssCe iio. or sseaiwateo tm.

DGCUMENT O1SPOSITICN

ia. reavtvcaata To
iyo AUPE NO.

RerEmetD Fo twit FE

SHINO, few 0

PERT INEST INFGRURT 10%

Transmitted heeewith are eight (8) copies of FieldInterrogation Report
oataining information from DS-2072. It is recommended that these
nts be distributed as follows :

FE

REDSOX
REDCAP
Registry

NNNN

One copy of this report is being transmitted to local ODOPAL. It is not
lated that this report will be disseminated in its entirety to any other non-
Cunit although it will probably be shown to interested officials of ODACID.
advise you of any further fuli or partial d:ssemination of this material.

Js] Robert C. DAMIEN
telligence Officer

‘ield Interrogation Report Number I os
| February 1954.

ysure
Ul: _Intetligence Operations

MLE THIS FORA.IN FILE NO.

atvieus corveewa, SECRET wean

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]



es saa on

es D5-272
couTéL Pajt
U.S. OFFICLALS ONLY opr gd
. Page {
2b, Source won:toned that a Coster 4.0, a Japszese-Conrunist Party seczer, was |:
pa ibaaaidl a

iting TAVILY Ev '9 Liver ailment.
eae TASHINO Mat:

2 raroud'9, cia suagested to Source as a lanmaro teacter! ty 2ria

of. (see below), a Scu-ce Later recraited nin agent. ‘chen Source went back

ix. Vescror 1946, he turned TIS over to LIAIWI, who in tare pasesd him
ees .

in turn went back, in September 1952, YUSUT:C was retu-red to Source

as with the Japanese Mission in Hardin and is row employed Sy the

-oviota $7]

voc ‘tel he was an agent Sor the Cazaress Police,

M-baun (x9 Nett es tins Qualaty Of tne nussuaN az «nish it was

a} was pace; -e-reported anie! Ly on “uuslins, chite ant Soviet, in Texyot Fe was

. 3 painter at Johnson air Force who received ¥5,000 of

S's sslary. Ho has submiived full pians of connson Air Sase and

once submitted xiusograph stencils of secret travel orders.

wo) Neo

» ¥5,00) of YOSHINO's szlary. He his subritted plors of Tachileva dir Sase

A}, & araftsmn at Tachiiava Ar Fe

and-arce brought in tre! aids designed to be used with stotert traine

ing zircreft. fis information wi considered inferior. (TOTICA} has @
wife, age about 10, who 1s believed to be either a dressmaker or a tailor

running @ shop near Tachikawa dir Paso. oo
(ce) Yanaia), eaployed in the Customs Office at the Port of kobet=2 ee
eee -

(QA RITAYA) pas provided chu

¢ ani eounding data cn Sobe harbor, He stays
With, :C5ETUO when he conse to Zoavo. ..

THO hte beer sived until last aaong the Uapanese .gonts, mince he is helf fussian
tirculatos among the Russians treated below (“ditor).

wably of tie Japanese language (Stor),

Least one occasion YOSI'TH also reported on @ Kission nmber — SATSL‘TSV, end
alations with Misa SOs. 7

other point, Source atated that-be belioved (aura) worked ta @ sccvmrretal:s



"yOD’SECRET

u.8. orrgtAls OxLY
&. YusuIKo aleo recruited his wife's oret'er, @ Javan Corr!

——<——
<i20 wan piven the sate ee a ee TiO Was given $55,00 to mae the | ©

Freruitneat. (lai.) !s & bookkeeper and works on the <isen ‘aru, \hich used 60 run bee

‘esp Japan and

ia byt poseidly now plies t+t.cen Japan and the United States. (TAX)

23 sesorved for enecrency use as a courier anc tas not ueen used to datetZs

TCV concerning, negotiations betveen

a

ishles am Yoshida. Bince, £I5 0) ses recsiy ¢ envelopes from the ‘arty which KIRA,

+6 trintlaved the ordiracy

oP anbeliigence re.crts, does not sce,

@2, Soures trinsiste? sore documents res-ives from tho Party from ineliah inta

danz sevzral o.' the>, which con>ecned cer. werfare preparations by the Americans,

ee

“ares belteved funsicersd and so infsowd

+ Sources renenvers another document:

vu ‘mb alligonce activities of the American in capanz it stated that alrost all

Tupass: officials wire soles and ordervd the Uiairese iovserment about. Source and

STL HIR'V a-reed that ths JUP inteiizence ws cf Little value, an does

ai, OK. ‘BIAMWV cautioned embers of tae Jisaicn nevar td tell JCF mecbers that the |

Tisalor: hus cther intelligence chamels ard acs.

i OER EISTAL 2) nists ‘

+ Source knew of two North kcrsan agents <rams unknown). 211 cane to the Mission

é rt
accut cune 1953 and asked for money; <EINTTSIN Interviewed hin and gave hin ¥45,000.127

Tye other cane at atout the sane tins with the saze recuest, ut was unsuccessful because

the arrangensxts “went astrey"

Elsewhere Source

tazes (Iii) Ss only a ocr syrpathiser. |

YOSHINO and 11 his contacts tare een dropped tothe Yiasten because of
Souree'a knaledge of thm (nitter 5 Poh yes OR:

Knew nothieg about’ West te ua’ a Japan Goubiniet Pasty?
The JCP information wis ussally Lsteiacas oa rice paper’ in amil blue type

tay ecatata batter

th Kerman v3 in the “cater or an intel Linerer

Ti aita the Centar.
sorsan first visite: «
wr wer requested after he msde his *

vhether the a>
tor instruc,



eS a

Xusem (below) as Soviet azents.

« Xzosino, Pe

DS-2072
F
U.8. OFFICIALS oSLY Copy >
B. SOVIETS AND WHITE RJSSIANS Page 36.

~~ Pa
87, Efin VORVODIN has been useful to the Soviets as a spotter, although
= plariguebe
trey suspect hir, of being an American agent; he bae many Anerican friends, Ke
4s this not used as an agent.  VCEVODIN suagasted both W590 Vatsuo (above) ard
: resnsg vats

azz 4
+ €8, Ancther Soviet involved in YOHIRC's case was AUSANOV (RADIST), who
—_—
Teported YOSHIHO to be a Police informant but elso supplied the information t.at he
was extremely anti-Americes, which led the Center to direct his continued use.
RUSANDY was originally a ied Army officer but, fled the USS2 in 1939 and came to Japer.

At the beginning of the Occupation RUSANC7 voluntarily confessed hle escaps to the

Miseion and asked for repetrintion, but the Mission considered hin more valuscle as

tints Set ggnrt fe open ant he en menentted ae awa hy RTKTSUNU, te uma,

howaver, rewarded by being accorded (secretty) Sovict citizenship in 1915. RUSANOV's’
current case officer is SATEL'YEY . RUSANOY receives atout ¥20,0CO per month fron

the Soviets, (ne of his scurces, the one from whom be received tha inforzation on
'

ERMSHARSZY
poe

Soviet citizen agent submitting information on the Yussian colony

in Japan 4s Boris ATANSI“i, who w.s recrufted and bas been fandled by S\V2L'YW. In
Gne instance he spott<d anather Soviet agent, a Jepanese Living near his forver rosi-
dence on LOth Street, in Tokyo, who was an engineer for dn-American contracting fina.
Tho Japanese had been @ prisoner of war in Ansrican hands and was strongly anti-
Aserican, alleging that the Americans hid mistreated hia. fis fine was engeged in

ailitary construction work for the security forces on Cidimva, and theJapinese submitted —

oe jansnovich BC: 3 an alias, taken when this non fled the USS2. He cane
Japan in th PSTLE 7. Ho has overtly been anti-Communist and r>-

: ported that the Soviets refused kim citizenship (Files),
(128 SAVEL'YRY now es all Rusalan informants for the Soviets (Source).

229 Yuri A in Tokyo; he was an
officer in the Cuarist Army. He is an active member of the Jlussian Aational Unier,
(anti-Soviet) in Japan (Files). i ‘

- AB secret
CONTEILAUS OFFICIALS CHLY ,

PEP SECRET © >
: CONTROL

TS. OFFICIALS ONLY : - ,

