104-10786-10306)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This euaterual ecotaing tatirestion effecting the Keticoul Defeow of the Catied Sistes within the meaning of the Bipicangy Lawn Tee,
‘Wanealadoa ef feveiatiog of which la say cancer to aa unauthoriend permse te preoibiied ey law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. = CSCI-S3/781,855

|
|
COUNTRY © Cubs.
{  sumiect Saul GONZALEZ (psoudonym “DENIS") ATE DETR 16 June 1964
i No. paces 1
: REFERENCES RETURN TO nn
: p Background Use
Are oF 1963 and 1964 Do Kot Reproduce
pace & . Washington, D.C. i
DATE ACO. 9 FIELD REPORT NOL >

THis 15 UNEVALUATED (M/ORMATION _SOUICE ONADINGS AGE ORVINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT &@ TENTATNE.

‘Source, A former Cuban IS.officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964, i f

ters Comment, The following report is one of a series
ing personality information provided by the source and

Hear

contail
includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

Department of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General
Directorate of Intelligence), In March 1964 he made a trip to
France and Rome and while in Rome met Roberto Antonio MORO

. Perez, At MORO's request GONZALEZ carried a gift back to MORO's
girl friend in Habana. GONZALEZ returned to Habana in late March
or early April 1964, In December 1963 GONZALEZ was in Habana, but
it is believed that he had: made a previous trip to Europe,

1
1

1

!

'

i

!

i

| 1, Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym "DENIS", is an officer in the Megal
i

t

2, GONZALEZ, who was born in approximately 1936, 1s six feet tall,
* 180 pounds, has a dark complexion, black hair, 2nd wears tinted
sun glasses. He resides at 1420 15th Street, Apartment 3, Vedado,
Habana, where his telephone number 1s 3- 3375,

Headquarters Comment

= 1, The records of this Agency reveal no pertinent identifiable”
information,

5

4 SECRET |:

2 NO FOREIGN DISSEM
1

on Tay
7 7 75

[itor Pet donibetion letcvied ty “3°

STATE

WE2-R
5 vat ra REA

ee Zl —
CSAC! hRpaN it
He i He LI tT

vorsue anes 2 N ower my ora emt I

aN
esct.2"% 73%, 855
TS,

WARK:

At

