# 104-10217-10200

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10217-10200

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

PROCESSUNG ACTION

MARNED FOR MODIDN

TO

Color of Stetion, Barma

DEO

DO TADOXING LIQUIETO

ONLY QUALITES DES

CAN NOR DODAS

FROM

Water of Bare, Genove

Cores, 8B

SOROFAN

SUBACT

DIE/AUFOLE/CHLOOS ActIVItIes

AFRICAN REW"

ALTION REQUIRED FLEARES

ACTION REQUIXED: POT YOUr INTONEStION

BEIN 9954, 16 september 1963

DRA 53983

Gusted belon 1a the trost of esa ODEVY repart, deted 1l October 1963, on

sabject jabllestion.

Although sch of 1t lo a duplication as the Information

vulch vas provided the station 1n earller carrespondesce, ve are farvurding the

report in the event the Intoration in the last paragrapa has sor come to

your attertion.

Il, a confidential source abroad, has surized tost the puall.

ration "Axicon Revalution" vas created by the Algerian Frout of Bations

Ilberetloss. Its fazlies lenguage edition 18 published 11 Sultzerland.

There bave been several changes 1a the editarial coposition and palley

at "AIrieRs Revalution" recently, according to Il. Follortog a dia-

agreeMeNt VItA BEN: BELTA, JACQUES CANILE VERGES, the editor of the

JUbLICatIon, Vas diEsLEBed ITOS LLA functiOnS. VERGES 15 BA AlgerIAL

t10a1, 1h0 vas bara March 5, 1923. Mla place as aditor vas tabo

•Dy EDHAMID EARBI, SOTAT SOCTOtALY General Of the Algerian Ministry ol

Paredes Abradre.

Bisco HARBI becaus editor, the editorial palley bar

chengod; end ¿Do Juas 1963 18506 Ol "ASTIem Revolution" indicated

that the journal is now closely rollocting ist hildA's polley aud

ettengtang ta prosode a bare algarina lago.

"Although VIRGES la so Longer connerted VISa tha Algerson

The phrase "the

tHIS S0U1A," UhiCh 1A DON 11 VOGUE BONE VERGIS'8 group to describe

the underdeveloped netlons of Africa, South Aleries, and Able 1ad1-

estes tha soupe of the nagarina in 148 new fore J-1 described

2do pabllestion with which VERCiS lo presently comected as pro-

"INO RENDErS Of EDe INDIANA OPTICA OR tbe "African Revalution"

have serained loyal to flatEs after he vas repleced ly BARBI. They

ETE FRISK GILBERT ELIS AURISSOR, a STedial Istional tha vas bora on

Fogruary 14, 1933, 11 In238m0, dad RICHARD TADIAS GIBSON, & United

states eltista tho was bora kay 13, 1931, 1n Los Angales.

201-306057

117109103

O ROY BE

OROSS REFERDECE TO

DESPATOM STREBOL AND ARJAABER

DATE

201/2

8317-10050

GLASSNICATIA

SECRET

HOS FLE MUMBES

201=

EXT.

#1-RID:E3/SA 201-306052

BRE

LUNDATING

DEFICE STUBOL

RID /ES

tike

0J/ICC

DATE

1150.+6

OFFICERS AURAGE

HID/VIS

RICHES

EE/sAls

VERTLE ST. BUL

C/5B/SA

RELEASING

15(00 (o0631

Unters si

739м1-11

URESTALI

RICHARA

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

CINCATON

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND AUNTIE

BBBT-20050

"ADASON apparently heads the office of the leusane edition

Ol "AtTICon BeTOlution" vith arfices at 10-11 Metropolo, Lensame.

Is 18 ALsO edItor-seCretary of "Societe Cooperative Cartes Bd1tlons."

(1B301 bas V. B. Passport Ho. B-13199 ubich una lerued at

She resides 1n Lansams at 17 Becallers du Marche, where abe astited

STon Algeria 1a LEte AprLl 1963. (this also 1a prosumably the roasdence

ef ber hereberd, PINGAPD gRONAS STEROR,)

has been ordered to depert iran Sultzerland befone Decenber 15, 1963."

A.r.

ugusta Be XUa

Hl.B. A FUNiSK analyale of the jublications both berare sod at ver the

hange of editors in lay 1903 shous no algaltient change 1n the editoria

palley of elther the Algeria or the suila based verblons, as 18 suggeste

Also, to our kaonleiga verges 18 a Presca

1:

FORM

S-SO SUE USE FREVIOUS LOMON.

140)

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-30605

PACE NO

2

CONTINUES

---

