V04-10086-10211) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

% ay 2 * 7 an a a ao

- +. 8*QONFIDENTIAL oe

18 August 1976.

> MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT : Resorts International, Inc.
: > #591 722

1. Attached. to instant memorandum is an article from ~
the 15 August 1976 edition of the New York Times captioned,
“Bahama Gambling Group Considers Las Vegas-Type Casinos in
Atlantic City." The article states that the corporation
behind this venture is Resorts International, Inc. The
article also reflects that Resorts International, Inc., was
formerly the Mary Carter Paint Company.

~~ 2. Also attached to this memorandum is an extract from
the 1969 book, "The Grim Reapers" which links the Mary Carter
Paint Company to the gambling activities of the organized
crime boss Meyer LANSKY. The extract also links Meyer LANSKY
to Santo TRAFFICANTE.. Additional information in the book,
not attached, reflects that Santo TRAFFICANTE was Meyer
LANSKY's gambling czar in pre-Castro Cuba.

7 3. Resorts International, Inc., is the Subject of OS
ifile #591 722, This file reflects that Resorts International,
: :Inc., was of interest to Cover and Commercial Staff, DDO, in.
: 41972 -and 1973: No other details are available. ~
| “4. The Wallace GROVES, mentioned in the attachments as |
being connected with Meyer LANSKY and the Mary Carter Paint

Co./Resorts International, Inc., is identical with the Wallace:
GROVES who is the Subject of OS file #473 865. This file re-

flects that from April 1966 to April 1972, GROVES was, of in-
terest to the Office of the General Counsel for the uhiliza- j
' [tion of GROVES as an advisor or possible officer of one of |

:the Project WUMUTUAL entities. Additional information in-this
sfile would suggest that GROVES was connected with Meyer LANSKY.
‘The file also reflects that in March 1975S, Cover and Commercial
; Staff was somehow involved with two individuals connected with /
ia corporation owned by GROVES, the Grand Bahama Development
(ess 387)” Albert WHISNANT (#633 974) and John P. ROULETT

Gor Sie .

7 EZIMPDET
Sor _GiLANcana COO ; CL BY 063994
Reb entron santas. 72" -Ateeeaetes


a 7, md : aN

OOO

5. The Robert D. PELOQUIN mentioned in the news article.
as being the head of a Resorts International subisidiary, is
identical with Robert D. PELOQUIN (#624 168). . However, the
file reflects that in 1970, PELOQUIN was a Vice President of
Resorts International, Inc. The file further shows that
PELOQUIN was formerly connected with INTERTEL and as such was
engaged by the Hughes Tool Company to conduct a sweeping invest-

- igation into the affairs and past activities of Robert A.
MAHEU. MAHEU, as you are aware, was used by this Agency for
introduction to-organized crime * figures for assassination
planning directed at Fidel CASTRO in the early 1960's. Also,
as you are aware, the MAHEU/organized crime contact eventually
led’ to the above mentioned Santo TRAFFICANTE.

6. As you are aware, the Senate Select Committee, during
the deliberation of that body into the activities of this
Agency, evidenced: interest in the Mary Carter Paint Co.,
MAHED: D. PELOQUIN,: INTERTEL, Santo TRAFFICANTE and Robert A.

Cay 7. It is recommended.that instant memorandum, as well
as the attachments, be brought to the attention of the General
Counsel and the Cover and Commercial Staff.

Jerry G. Brown
: Deputy Chief
PsBESEnuER Security Analysis Group

Atts:
As stated (Original only)

JGB:hjd

