# 104-10017-10056

## Page 1

1104-10017-10056

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

4-63

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and forward to RID.

2.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper

insert proper file no. below and forwar

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

20X2K28 RICK

17/407

EXI. 5075

GN368

GASO

TUBE GIT

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

NITIALS

CI/RA

Hartman 1 hor? 6

R1O/Files

6.

7.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14:

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

ABSTRACT

INDEX

TUnl

1.63

4610a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

993.50

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-289248

DOCUMENT DATE

OCUMENT NUMBER

OL Dee 63

SECRET

OTR 00976

TREA

1401

---

## Page 2

13-00000

6 December 1963

The Record

Chief, Security Branch

701

OVisit of Ernest Aragon

Chiaf, Security Branch:

To

informatch

0030 hee E Deodatra

ERNeSt

Aragon wished to turn cver & copy ou a I01t.

intercepted by Sacrot ferrico (ose lettor Filed I

RYBAT File under date of 20 Novonder 196301.

also requeated Station traces.

TArs wAs fENT

NANCY

GRATE

IN 1900

I RELAIL

FBI

REpoRT MENTIONiNG

FACT IT WAS.

iN 1091D

• RENCKT.

'pes

To's

DOCUMENTAND

Oswatto

FIRE

201-

289248 154

A.E.D

Snoret Servico

CITLOOR

G5 86ra

DTR-QQ976

Willian Go Fine

281-289248

O6 De:63

att H/W

---

## Page 3

13-00000

10 November 1963

PEDRO CHARLES LETTER

RECOPOS CREAMIER SIA

Tha Pollen delaction 18,

autho no onese

1051000 0T/ RiA.

Nater s

Te destruction out

reasons and coorde

TO BE OPENED BY CHIBE OR DEPUTY CHIEE SECURITY BRANCH ONLY

H/ wit I to DTR-00976

201-989248

1O NOr 63

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Wonde

---

## Page 5

13-00000

•

Havana

10 November 1963

Lee Harvey Oswald

Mail Office

Dallas, Texas

U.S.

A.

Friend Lee:

Once again I write you since the last time that we saw each other

in Miami. You took the books in Spanish to the hotel and I hardly

have any. I will tell you that the man plans to visit there soon

and you should close the business as soon as possible, as I told

you beforehand in Miami, I recommend much prudence and do not do

any madness with the silver I gave you. I trust you will not

defraud me and that our dreams will be realized. After the

business I will recommend you highly to the Chief who certainly

will be very much interested in knowing you as they need men

like you. I told him you could put out a candle at 50 meters and....

he did not believe me, but I made him believe because I saw you

with my own eyes and the Chief was astonished. Well Lee, practice

your Spanish well for when you come to Havana as this is the land

of liberty, of beautiful women and rich Havana tobacco. Don't

forget to do all that I told you to the letter and do not leave

anything that can be traced etc., and when you receive my letters

destroy them as always. After the business I will send you silver

and we shall see each other here in Miami at the usual place.

Always Sincerely

Pedro Charles

TO THE DECLASSIPICATIOS 4E

THIS DOCUMEET.

AS

---

