# 104-10124-10043

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10124-10043

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

TILE - H

0E4649)

TRAVEL ORDER

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBOL

17125-12571

GRADE AND SALARY

25014 811575

NAME

ME CORD

Howar

J6555 16.

OFFICE PHONE

2753

TITLE

OFFICIAL STATION

FOCUSEY

:$f{0sz

Farringtong

Po fo

YOU ARE HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH AGENCY REGULATIONS.

PURPOSE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Phango if acéo of tourspirtal les sularlaeo

Lacesa lascage miamited uot do caredà 130 Ibe.

iperationi entertatuent suitorissa sat to ascoed 110?.09

parasical expuitoe catharicod not to carend 1370,30.

AUTHORIZED PER DIEM

sires per 2107.

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED ITO BE EFFECTED BY ORISINATING OFFICE)

stomatra

OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

ADVANCE OF FUNDS IS AUTHORIZED.

THEATER CLEARANCE (iF OBTAINARLE)

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL.

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

517 1855

4231553

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

1a0,

835, s5r,

indire

CETSEN

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FO:LOWS IF PAPPLICABLE

CERTIFICATION (BY PROCESSiNG SRANCH)

CERTIFIED A TRUE COPY, SIGNED COPY ON FILE IN CENTRAL

PROCESSING ERANCH.

REVIEWED, NO CHANGE NECESSARY.

AMENDED AS INDICATED.

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST EY

COMMON CARRIER

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE

GOVERNMENT

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENI AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

CONNESTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION,

AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY,

YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS,

PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRS:

#OST

LiFECTS, AND

SOST ON IS YUBARE.

DUTY REFDAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

i NeED CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

RETURN FRON. FOST OF DUTY A5R0AD, INCLUDING EXFENSES

TRANSPORTATION

LA.MEDiATE

DELIGATION REFERENCE NO.

CHARGE ALLOTMENT NO.

FERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

DATE

SISNATURE OF AUTHORING ORCER ~2

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL PITHIN E DONTHS OF ENRI CYEE.

3

TOO NAME ANE TITTE OF OTHCIAL AUTHOMING TRAVEL

DATE

C:0 1950

"SIGNATURE OF SPICIA:

"ZUTHORIEING TRAVEL

Vel: 1. 17148

3

Taly 455

2-20

128-49)

---

