# 104-10117-10272

## Page 1

104-10117-10272

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

atta

ChLor, NEA DivisIon, Dr/P

socurlty Officer

detang Chief, Physieal Seourity ElvIelon

DEUS1001JRS

13914

socurity. Volstion Report

ManitAn,

Jobs Fa:

[CORNISH, febard 8a

SODPASTURE, Ame La

1. The attached report is sortarded toy you for your laformation

and for such adilnistrative sotion as you dean the clrowastances varrant.

z0.

in.

cour attention la invitod to paragraph nine uhich Indiestos tha

his is the third sesurity clolation shargod to ta. (Cortsh]the prortous

since sore than tro yoare have clapsod sinco these rolations, any adulatetrativo

sation should do basod on one offlotal tolation.

In coallance with CIA Socurity Regulation Ia, 10-7, Jectlon B

(6), It 1ó requested that this offleo be laforead of notion taken as a resulta

of the securit, tholation. It would be appreciatod 18 such report

furchahod 1n quadruplicate.

goald be

FOR THE DIRESTOR QU SECURITE, CIAL

Jobn D. 3816

Attachnants

S28. AH/8b

Distributions

Обіда їх 1-

(1)

Violation Report

AGiTUBEDO

Nr./F19ck

Security Flles o

- Shrano

3/50

RETURN TO CIA

Background Uce Guy

Do Cot Repruause

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Noting Chier, Physical Security Division

13 astorber. 1954

Acting Caler, Fhysical Survey Dranch

Security Tolation Report - Exporod Classlilad Material

CORNISH,

Filchard s]

GODPASTUR3, A CO Lo

on 24, Forember 1954 at 8820 P. Mo, KrS. Pinklo Lo Ester, a seabes

of the rBs Char Forco, round a Stully cable datod 10 dune 1952 on tho 11909

under a desk in Room 1310, "I" lullaung, fight Socurity Officer Lay C. Colton

responded to the tolophone call tron the Guard Offico and secured the saterial

1n his salo at 8i40 ?. Mo, after loatiaz an explanatory note on the donke

Puring the cou-se of the lovestiga:ion Mr. John I. Markhan, Intolligence Officer,

"ass in so Goodpasture, Intelligence oft,cer,

Core tell ence biter, aSP, and Central, tele branch chlos,

15-2, all Of DD/P/UZA, vero laternieved.

3. lit. Harkhan adrised that ho was responsiblo for the seourity volat

He ststed that on 24 November 195k be was cleaning out old 11les as a part of a

I'neral security clean up, and that apparently the cable 1o questioa had fallen

under the desk at which he was worklag. fa stated alss that ho had left the

! room at aboat 5100P. H., but that apparently ho had overloasud the naterial.

do 11s8 Goodpasturo adrieed that she had bean assignod responsibility for

oonducting the Staff Duty Offleer Inspection of Room 1910 on the date in guestion.

She stated that she had conducted her Inspection of the room at about 51208. Hor

but that apparently she had orerloaked the cable due to 1t8 position unior tho

3.. Mr. Corniahadvised that he lad eleo been asalgaed responsibility for

conducting the Staff Daty OffIcer Inspoctlon of Room 1310 on the date 1n questi»s.

He sistod that he conducted his laspection of the roos at about 5:20 P. l. but

that apparently he had overlooked the cablo.

6. Is. all advised that, 1n bie opinion a comprubise of the cable rould

jeopardizo no jersonal, plans or operations of the biency, because the subjest

Latter was administrstive and she cable tres daled le June 1952.

7. Mr. Ellok)edrised tha: D. Interal NA Divialon Security Regulatione,

this posple aro ascigoed responsibility for conducling the starl Duty Officer caeck

, and that they are responsible for chocking all floor surfaces under deske.

respond rope fat man rea

9/50

---

## Page 3

14-00000

- 2.

Bo The eire

unsteness In this case indicate that Fs. Markhan, Hiss Good.

pasture and Ir. Cornilet)ere jointly responaible for the security tolatios.

SECURITY HISTORI? 03

9. It. Coralst provionaly has bren ebarzed vith sa laproper transslasloi

of elassified documents security volation valeh occurrod on 1 Deedaber 1950 4s

an unlocked sato sacurity Molation unlob occurred da 27 denuary 1951. Is

adcitios, ho lost a Sallaing all, Fadga on Il Angest 1969, Baraver, ln connection

with saction 107, 8 (7) of CIA Security Rogulations, 18 10 noted that such

10las10:a occurred sore thas ino juars prior to the date of the lastest tholi

In consectlon wits the sase section, 11 18 to be noted that Klss Goodpasture

L0d No MATKhAn haVe CoRD empIQyed by tie AgENCy fOr MOre thaN SiX yOars snum

three goars, ruspsetirely, vithout prerlously barlag beos charged vita a security

VIOlAtLOs.

Harry f. DegAs

250

CADENT AR

---

