# 104-10172-10306

## Page 1

4-0000

104-10172-10306

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Dit: Is the abrame il roney or indratiao of seto

ian. the cowar chard auld to doversred aton th

R101(in-

lie dent li scin

TO

vEl!

ROOM

PIO

1x1?

2.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

5.

16

11A

LOPY

1a

11.

12.

000

27 je

9i558

Se 0212113-2 02u

IN-19930, 23/nony59

SRICE/P

1d.

15.

16.

18.

R1O1F1

SOLAJAUDE

14004

ARATRACT

PILE NUMERA

2501-151156

21BR

ten t1de

it netting

1401

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

¿alos, is

Chief, SA

14-1

insor of station, Holanks MiKR

2700713900

retts

29-6-2

12 May 1959

ICHICA

MARRIN AN ANTHUING

NO MENIENT MOVIDIO

MAXINE CAN dI NUC.ID

AT QUAiNIO INA DISA ONAY

toco a for Inforation

0544 381922

B.

05H4 385922

On do May GrIgorly To, Colub phoned Costillo for lunch for that day.

Most of the tino nas apont on polite conversation and no polítical toplos

sons discussod. Colub askod Costilla about his hogo and fanly In tho

states and his vacation plano.

Golub montionad that ho was not going to

be able to take a vacation thia auntor as he had hopod.

When Costillo askod

his ity, he garo the resson that the Ambassador, shon Golub describad do

st1ll baing now and not quito sure of hinself got, had told hia ho marted

air to ronain In. Holdinki as ho vas the only person of officer rank in the

Consular soction.

(Station coment: This might be bacause of taruencher' a

reportod visit to finland shortly - 800 HELS) 1710)

14-1

Not once during

the lunch did the subjoct montionod in reforancas

concerning Costillo's troatment in the Sovlet Unlon come upo

3. Golub montioned that he had been in Finland now for about four

joars and that he had boen anjoring himself very much and Ilked Finlend and

cbs Finns.. Ho sald that he was glad that he did not speak inglian sa no

uld than probably be sent to England or the ünited States, mich in his

opinion voro too far fron his home in the Soviet Union. According to Golub,

thia sado travel homo, as vall as phona callo, too expensive.

When Costillo

asiced hia shore he would like to bo sont next, he ansuered Moscow.

that over three yours was too long to be aray tron ond a country.

No arrangemento were mado for the next lunch, but 11 Golub June

trio to fora, ho will bo phoning Costille next voak, Golus usually averages

about ono phono call a noak.

Willion L. Costillo

Has 12, 1959

DistrIbution

2 - HB

2-Ho -H014-1

6/8R

iNss

---

