# 104-10123-10205

## Page 1

104-10123-10205

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RÈCORDS ACT OF 1992

'SPECIAL CLEARANCE and/or BILLET APPROVAL

- DATE.

(Submit original and 4 copies to SCC)

19 January 1%

SUBJECT'S NAME

Ine: F. Corarell

FOR SCC USE

ONLY

COLE

DATE OF

BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

20•89

POSITION

BILLET NO.

2c--ribr Pelicy & Exec. Staif

MILITARY RANK

MILITARY SERIAL NO.

ORGANIZATION

COMPONENT

APPROVED

SUB-DIVISION

retice el Securit

TO:

CHIEF, SEC

IT IS REQUESTED THAT .

APPROVED

T

"DATE

I SPECIAL CLEARANCE APPROVAL E BILLET

APPROVED

H

R

JUS

(also ihdic

In coltan

right?

ICATION REFERENCE Subject,

So chief Sages

requires accese to into re these t

projects in order to direct and ovarsee

Eat management si the BYEMAN YA

Security Control System,

CONCUR..

APPROVED:

CONCUR

APPROVER

CONCUR

APPROVEO

72123

CONCUR,

• APPROVED

SEE

ATTACHMENT

TO:

CHIEF,

PSD/HD-4

FOR ACTION INDICATED

REQUESTER'S MAIL

ADDRESS (Re-Bldg)

SIGNATURE

TITLEB COPORA

CORAL_

_51

BYEMAN

OTHER DA

SEE ATTACHMENT

180/511 iN

TO:

SCC

CASE NO.

REQUESTED.

SUBJECT MEETS ESTABLISMED SECURITY CRITERIA FOR THE REEN?

NOTE ATTACHED COMMENT,

SCC INDEX SEARCH:

9I-7H----C-AR-HX

O:

REQUESTER

ARRANGE MITH C/SCC FOR BRIEFING

16 483

Tin?

55766÷35

ADVISE C/SCC OF DATE BRIEFED

ana 22

02727450

SCC

INDEXING ACTION

NEW ROD -ET CONG OLD

01 26 010 1967

SUBJECT HAS BEEN

APPKWVED

SEE ATTACHMENT

FORM

4-65

201 8a "oftio

PREVIOUS

SECRET

6230E EN

63

170

-941

---

