# 104-10132-10173

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10132-10173

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

2

3

ROUTING

41

5

161

& DIRECTOR

SERN

C/EE 3 (EE NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1555-26 NOV)

NO : DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5,1

D/OS 2,

VR

SEC: ET 261997Z

INNEDIATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATE GNVA CITE BERN 2493

26 Kor 63 11 6 8344

RYaN KUDESK INK

RaP REal 2890 (19 68313)

#SUL STATION COMMENTS RE SUBSTANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAMINATION OF REF NEMO AND INANITION 6 TELEPHONE ANSWERS

TO STARD QUERIES.

Richard T.

?. DELICATE SOURCE REFERRED TO IS TAP OF GIBSON PHONE

IN LAUSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY LAUSANNE POLICE/PIT AT INANITION;

REQUEST, EXISTENCE TAP, NOT FREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION. APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TC STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIESON IN CONNECTION "REVOLUTION' MAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

ser Pa

CONNECTIONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO. ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

IVANITION 6 ON 27 NOVEMBER.

3. IN ANSVES IO ELMARD QUERIES INANITION & STATED TAP, INFO

FROVIDED BY AN UNIDENTIFIED INANITION INSPECTOR, THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

POOPARLY A FIPELONER. INANITION & PROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION

INSPECT OR AND MAVE TAPE CHECKED FOR POSSILE FURTHER CLUES TO

IDENTITY SPEAKER.

SECRET

5:1

focluded lera autamor-e

dosngros.rjonu

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•::r..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN/83+4 PAGE 2

4. APPEARS CLEAR GISSON PEFERENCE THROUGHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WRITH WHICH HE

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

5. CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON IN NEW YORK REFERRED TO AS "LY"

(MORE PROBARLY LEED PHONETIC.

POSSISLE THIS COULD BE

REFEPLICE TO LEE OSWALD BUT FROM CONTXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

6. CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC).

7. FROM CONVERSATION CONTENT CAN NOT IDENTIFY OTHER CALLER.

SPECULATIVE CONMENTS BELOW. MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAKE BETTER

HYPCIPESTS AFTER TALK WITH INANITIONS RE DETAILS OF PHONE TAP

COVERACE INCLUDING WHERE UNKNOWN SPEAKER APPARENTLY LOCATED.

8O CLOSE ASSOCIATE GISSON IS FREDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSON,

BORN 14 FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

ED IT DR- PUBLISHER. SEE ATT TO ESSA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

INCL CONTACIS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPING. POSSILE THESE TWO

MEN WOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH BUT ENCLISH WOULD DE MORE LIKELY LANGUAGE.

S. POSSIBILITY OTHER CONVERSATION PARTNER IS JACQUES VERGES,

COMMUNIST, FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA REVOLUTION AFRICAINE, NOW BASED

PARIS. NOTE VERGES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH CHICOM LINE IN FRANCE AND

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST"

SPLINTER PARTY CENTERED VEVEY. VERGES, ANDERSON AND GIBSON

ASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUPLICATION NOW BEARS TITLE "REVOLUTION", SUBT ITLE "AFRICA,.

LAT IN AMERICA, ASIA". EDITIONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENGLISH.

17. IN ANSWEP ELMARD QUERY INANITION & STATED: PHONE COVERACE

OF GIRSON CONTINUES AND PROMISED ARRANGE PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

---

## Page 3

14-00000

'sir=...

FLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 68_344 PAGE PAGE3

AND ODENVY REP ON FRIORITY BASIS. WILL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 27

NOVENDER FEET.

li, INANITION 6 INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

CTRSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 REFERS TO

TWIGS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

¡HAT DE. WILL CLARIFY AT 27 NOVEMPER MEET.

IP• KUBARK ONLY: ODENVY REP BERN CABLING HIS HQS MOST IF NOT ALL

OT IVANITIDY YEMOS REF. IN INTERESTS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

A: /TRET::" HE WISHED ORIGINATE BUT HE PREFFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

Pr:. IC CHANNEL. NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENIS ME MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF: ANITION REPORT. ESSENCE BUT NOT ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO HIM CRALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPATCH REF AND THIS CABLE.

VE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6. WILL

ої

CONTINUE FULL CORDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13. KUBARK ONLY: AS HINTED IN INANITION MEMO AND ORALLY

EY INANITION 6 TO ELMARD, INANITION WORRIED RE POSSIBILITY

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH PRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

THAT SOMEHOW IT WOULD LEAK INFO RE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

MANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE SWISS TAP OF GISSON PHONE AND PASSAGE OF

INFO TO FOREIGN POWER (MEMORIES OF DUPOIS AFFAIR REMAIN). BELIEVE

WE CAN OSTAIN ALL INFO FROM PHONE OP. ANY OF HEP. COVERAGE

OF CIRSON OF ASSOGIATES AND FROBABLY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

TAPES AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE" ARE

SOFT PED ALLED.

14. ANOIHER CABLE FOLLOWS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *RE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" AND ALSO

WITH LEE HARVE: OSWÄLD.

SSI

---

