A i2|

104-10176-1001:

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

SECRET
(then Filled tay

ptelligence - DS-2072 Debrief 2.5
Reports

ELCUVENT DISPCSITION

3. aansrenees TO
RE FILE AD.

af

(pg.

968 BET wae reerseve corriess.

ear

PESTINENT (NFZSVATH

Trensmitted herewith ere three (3) eutostet conies of preliminery
rerorts from the debriefing of DS-2C72. These reports ere drefted
from the tene recordizgs of the cebriefings end written up in
their present form efter edditions end corrections kez been made
uy tue Geprie:ing personnes in tne 1ignt of suosequent inrorme-
thon end in sone instences rechecxs with DS-2072, .

These rerorts were not the besis for DS-2072 Field Interrogetion
Report No. 1, xaich hes been rreviously forwevdea to you. Thet
report «6s cozpiled from eerlier érefts of the reporzs forwerced
herewith . We ere inthe process of revising Field Interrogation
2 No. 1 end interpolating meteriel contained in the
ettechments to this ¢!-retch which deels xith topics not covered
in Field Interrogetion Report ¥o. 1.

/s/ Robert C. Dexten
Cs fJIntelligence Officer.

rg. 6-7

2 para 2: Source described the following intelligense operations
of which he hed some znowledge, either personally or through
heersey: :

i. YOSHINO, Matsuo

YOSHINO was first suggested to Source as A Jepanese

language teacher ty local Soviet citizen VOEVODIN, Yefim. YOSHINO
then teceme source's agent until source Left Japan (Dec. 2546) “hen

YOSHINO wes turned over to NIKISHEV, K.I.
‘controlling officer efter NIKISHEV, snd then turned him tsck to

POPOV became the

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. |

‘SECRET E een


uron his return in 1950 to Japen. YOSHINO submitted informetion concern-
ing the locsl Russiens, the rew Soviet zitizens end the Russisn Jewish
businessmen in Jepen. YOSEINO hes three sub-sources:

(1) OKA (code name) painter at Johnson Air Force 2ase
(2) TOKD? (code nexe), dreftsnen at Tachikswa #1> Force Bese,
(3) MeRUYsM, employee of Customs office in the rort of Kobe.

In payment YOSHINO receives 30,6UC Ye
which he gives 5,00 Yen to GEA and 5,cc0 Yen to TOKADA. His
contributions were not considerec of ‘t value snc besices the Sevs,
eccording to Source, -ere elweys suspicious of YOSHINO. Ii‘<as known
thet he xas also an egent for the Jerenese Police. YOSHIN rks for
the Shinten Enterprise Co., ed it was Sourcse's cginion the: YOSHINO

es instructed by bcth Jepenese erd Americen Intelligence to gather
militery informetion concerning Sakhalin when he mede a trizto
Sexneiin tor tne vompsny (in iyzc}. UOHLAU nea bern Wath tne Soviet
Press, but wes dismissed from this position after a Gisegreexent with
EURAHFSHI, head of the Soviet Press. Despite these suspicicns, YOSHINO
28 retained upon instructions frex the Center when reports -ere
received that YOSHINO was strpngly anti-American.

ger month from the Scv Mis, of

pg. 2h ce. Source expressed doubts ebout the integrity >f only
F three egent "SCM" (see pera 2,r) YCSHINO (see para 2, 1) snd
: VORVODIN, Yefim locel Soviet citizen enc Sev. agent who is suspected of
working with US and/or Jepsnede intelligence. ...sseeeeeereree

pe. 48
4 Feb Sk Interview - grelimtnary Corraction by Source

e+e. pare 8: Emergency Plens SOURCE ststed that the oriy MVD
emergency intellige: coversge -&s emtcdied in the ECONOMIS end

TATEKSTSU stey-behind nets, Y°SHINJ's wife's brother (written in note-
tion reeds TAKA), probebly a member of the JCP, had allegedly beeh
recruited by YOSHING et the cost of 50,CCO Yen, but scurce cannot assert
the validity of this operation. The courler is s bookkeerer, code name
"TAKA", end worked on the Kisen MiRU, shich at one time went to India,

but he is now perhsps on another ship plying between U.S. anc Japan.

"TAKA hes hever been sctivated and remsins s, paper esset only. see eeeseee

