# 104-10186-10260

## Page 1

4.00000

104-10186-10260

* 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Esther GAVILAN Rosales

REPORT NO.

CS CI-216: 00714-64

8 September 1854

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

RETURN TO CIA

'DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES 1

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ.

September 1964

Background Use (

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES CSCI-3/782,081

29 June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE OIPIMITSAR APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS PEATADNE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS olficer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service

until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The foilowing report is one of a series containing personality information

provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the

records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals

mertioned in the personallty reports without first checking with this Agency.

Esther GAVILAN Rosales is the wife of Rogello RODRIGUEZ

Louez, the Subject of the above referenced report.'

Headquarters Comment

1. Official|travel manifests reveal that Estar GAVILAN Rosales arrived

In Mexico City from Cuba on 15 December 1961 and carried a diplomatic

passport; departed Mexico City for Cuba on 27 April 1962, carrying

Cuban diplomatic passport number D/61-538; and arrived in Mexico

from Habana On 8 July 1963, carrying Cuban diplomatic passport

number D/ 63/455.

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nora, fiold distribution indicated by "#".)

NAVY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

TAIR

NSA

CINCSO E

J&N'S

1x00

INFORMATFONERERORT

IN AG

YES R1

CL LIA LUE CANADAD

LVH. SA MABI

VE MADR 1 CIR&AS LE BRITISH

VUL SAR

L NaSu ERI

INH. SA CLA

NIL. VIVE!

PAD ANT

TOTALA

WH SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

LIAIRON

TORM NO

1

ONSOLETE PRIVIOUS EDITIONS.

3

2

1 oce

LEBL 2

HIONGRERORI

LX-165+-•-2736

No Projeciinaloo 1)

CSC1-316 07:1-64

ema

201-532665

41BR

---

