# 104-10123-10230

## Page 1

1104-10123-10230)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

18-17

TO

ATTN:

INFO.

Chief, Regional Security Support Stall

FROM

Chiel, KUSODA

SUBJECT

REBAT(FIDUST)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PRO.

POSED

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

MEADQUARTERS DESI

CAN JUDGE INDEXIMI

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

RETURN TO OUT

Ban ground lise Only

• De Not Reproduce

Please pass the altached envolope unopened to Howard 8.

Elbrats.

I ACCOM

PLISHED

Mark r. SAVORTE

Distribution:

Orig. l l - Addressae

Attachmenti:

Estolope a/a/c

§ CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

JITE DISPATCHED

17 SEP 196?

1S SOPS AO GRO NUMBER

(FCOS-3191

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SISTET

OFFICE

OFFICER

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

EXT.

---

## Page 2

14.00000;

S/C ATTACHMENT TO DISPATCE

(FCOS-3191

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR: Howard K. ELBROFF

1p7.

RETURN TO CIA

Backeraund Use Orty

• Do Not Reproduce

SUEJICT

: Request for Receipt of Operational Funds

1. Recently Elaine R. Lenay, of KUTUBE, advised ¿bat on

15 February 196z, during the course al your developiag a potential

agent of interest to KUTUBE In New York City, N. Y., she

advanced $50. 00 to you for this use. Because of operational

reasons at the time, it was not feasible to obtain a receipt for

this money.

2. Elaine R. Lenay advises that she recently submitted

a claim for the $50. 00 in conjunction with her travel voucher

for the trip during which this cantact was made. The above was

disallowed by the Finance Division on the grounds that neither a

receipt nor an accounting was available.

3. Until such time as a receipt can be obtained from you,

the claim for $50. 00 is being disallowed. Therefore, it would

be appreciated if you would forward such a receipt at your earliest

convenience.

Mark I. AINSWORTH

STRIZAT

---

## Page 3

14.00000

ente ope unepend

Elbrell.

B5V₴

RETURNSE H

Backgraund Use sty

• Do Not Reproduce

INSWORTH

Discribertion:

Orig. de l - Addressaa

-

melope alal

DATE TYPED

TE DISPATCHED

17 SEP 196?

~ CROSS REFERENCE TO

AND NI

T605)-3191

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

ER

1 - SRD

Vi - Chrono

• 1 - DD/P

SIGNET

OFFICE

OFFICE SYMBOL

-

CLASSIFICATION

PLAT

ofF

DATE

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

JORDINATING

EXT.

OFFICER'S NAME

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

OFFICE SYMBOL

DALE

1 53

(20)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM 6106 MAOH MAY BE USED.

DISPATCH

---

