*"404-10216-10273) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

Boa. 5

a SOLA PRON ANTEDNK/O}) ONE]

“ec ANTEUNK Progress Keport for Period 1-30 November 1964 :
ACTOR RIQUETD RUTROSES

Action Required: FYI.

1.

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. Preparations were underway in early November to
dispatch ANTRUNK-13 to Madrid in mid-November to cement
the recruitment of AKTEUNK-19. These plans fell
through when the Madrid Station notified Headquarters
and WAVE thet their workload would not allow sufficient
case officer time to handle AMTEUNK~13 in Madrid at this
time. WAVE agreed to postpone AMTEUNK~13's trip to
Madrid several weeks until Madrid Station's workload
abated somevhat.

B. The prospects of finalizing the recruitment of
AMTRUK-19 increased however with the receipt at WAVE
of another open letter from AXTRUNK-19, this one
mailed from Mexico City in mid-November. In ANTRUNE-19's
first letter, mailed from Nontreal in mid-October, he
suggested using a friend in Hexico City as a cut-out to
initiate a channel of communications between himself and
ANTRUNE~13. In his second letter, AMTRUNK-19 stated
~—\that be had wade the necessary arrangements with his
friend in Mexico. Although WAVE, Headquarters and MEXI
traces on AMTRUNE-19's friend, IDEN A, were fragmentary,
Mexico Station stated that IDEN A was well-known to one
of its PBRUMEN assets who vouched for IDEN A's loyalties.
WAVE intends to send an innocuous letter to AMTRUNK-19 in
AMTRUNK-13's handwriting to keep the channel with 4-19
alive. AMTRUNK-19 appears eager to see ANTRUNK~13 again
and has stated in both letters that he has considerable
information to discuss in detail. It is well realized
that this open letter channel 1s far from ideal but it
is hoped that in early January 1965 ANTRUNK-13 can re-
contact AKTRUNK-19 and provide bia with a system of S/S

‘parates ™  LASH#-/ flee

‘OATE TED CATE DSPATMED
10 Dec 64

ag eo nr aera aoa
. watt. USC | UFGA-19045.

WEADQUARTERS FE RR
4



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET UFGA~19045

Gren DisFATEn OYw DOL AND NUMBER

* as well as debrief him thoroughly and levy PI and

vee PREVIOUS foITION. | 1

MHAPRON requirenents upon bin.

C. In mid-Novenber after the postponement of AMTRUNK-13's
Madrid trip, preparations began to launch Operation
ARTHUKE X in car’y Poceaber. This operation would attexpt
to re-organize the ratline to and froc Havana and the
AMTRUNK infil area for the future use of infiltrated
MHAPRON recruiters and other agent assets as necessary.
Secondary objectives are to bring into the tufil area

& cache of weapons and explosives for AMTRUNK-10/AMLASH-1
and to teach a systen of S/W to one or more assets in the
area. The team is to be composed of the same four individ-
uals who participated in Operation ANTRUNK IX in October
1964; AMAGREE-1, Team Leader; AMAKA-1, Radio Operator;
and AHTRUNK~16 and -20, Guides. It vas decided tu sheive
the V-20 as the Intermediate Craft (IC) for this opcra-
tion and substitute a 17' Johnson boat with twin 75 hp.
outboard motors which could maneuver through shallower
water and which could be more easily camouflaged. The
basic reason for this decision was the fact that Decem-
ber through February are the low-water months in tho
AZTRUNK operational area. During this shallow water
season, the heavier, wider V-20 can only be used in the
decper and sore heavily-guarded infiltration canals.

D. Through the combined efforts of AMICE~14, the AMTRUNK
P/A, avd AWAGREK-1 and AMAKA-1, four radio operator
candidates, to be trainod for future use in PH opera
tions, were recruited during the reporting period.

E. Recruiting for MHAPRON infiltration candidates con~
tinued during the reporting period. One prospective
Anfiltree was recruited during the month of November

and the case officer was active in assessing and debrief-
ing two other candidates. It is hoped that by Harch 1965
one or more of these candidates will be trained and pre~
pared for infiltration for clandestine MiUAPRON recruit-
ing. In large measure this will depend upon the success
of Operation ANTEUXK X in re-organizing the ratline to
and from Havana.

¥. S/® Weesage Ko. 13 was sent to ANTRUNK-21 in response
to his Message No. 15 in which he stated that both OWVL
receivers were now in his possession. WAVE Message No.
13 to AMTEUNK~11 gave directions for the disposition of
the OWVL receivers and the activation of OWVL contact
with both AMTRUNK-11 and ANTRUNK-10.

INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

Hone

OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES
Salaries: ANICE-14 $400.00
AMAGREE-1 300.00
AMAKA~1 250.00
AMTEUNE-13 300.00
AMTRUNK-16 225.00
AMTRUKE-20 200.00
$1, 675-00
Mileage (AMICE-14 and AMAGREE-1): $202.40
Household Expenses: 61.97

GRAND TOTAL-——~-

onan ~~ $1, 939.37

GABSIFIEATION



{
t
4
i
i
{
\
i
{
!
‘
t
i
%
q

baer ee

i

Tinea EATON GraFATEN BYWESC ANE HOWRER
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH | SECRET UFGS~19045

Primary teaxs to be accomplished are the mounting of
Operation AXTRUNX X in early December, the dispatching of
AMTRUNK~13 to Madrid to finalize the recruitment of AXYEUNE-19,
and the staging of another contingent of MHAPRON recruiters for
infiltration in March 1965.

a
en Tet

Andrew EK, REUTEKAN i

“eLawaivieaTION
b 4, -rvadl PS gEREEREOPSranvrnaiproy SeseenSnra

ess Par



|

|
|
|
|
|
|

SECRET AS

A

Spiuaatad ays

&
i
|
3
E
Sot
&
q 4
2 ;
B> a
ze |
a
& :
a
;
&
i :
3 al '
g *
a io i
Zi cy H
a ‘
a
| :
: t
% i
a \
&
S
4
8
:
?

ee

ERE ALE fre Ra ee entree arene ene rane enti Aeon nt
"recreate ncn tere meer ansninectnsINe Te =
