od-10836-10022 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

3 e~ 2
i CA L223 .
ny bet hak tro
Memorandum
February 9, 1998
To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
ce: Bob Skwirot Mickle
CIA Coordinator
25+2-9¢
From: Michelle Combs

Special Assistant for Research and Review -
Subject: CIAIR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board

In response to informal request CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National
Intelligence Program Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligence
Board Watch Reports, action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological files,
for the period January 1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy.

The search produced eight United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports from the
period 27 November 1963 - 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these eight documents,
consisting of 14 pages, and have marked portions of six reports as assassination records:
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, 22 January 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April 1964,
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President’s Intelligence Checklist and the President’s Daily Brief, these ,
documents cover multiple topics. I recommend that the portions of the document not
deemed related to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

Once the six marked reports have been included for processing as assassination records,
this response is complete.

DRAFT


To: Barry

From: Michelle

Re: Watch Committee Reports

Barry,

I read through the reports and marked paragraphs relevant to the assassination in six of
the eight reports. The Board almost certainly will want these relevant paragraphs
released in full. Given that these six reports constitute only eleven total pages and that
the information in them is now consigned to the pages of history, it would be nice to have
the entire reports reviewed for release. If this creates a sensitivity or speed-in-processing
problem, see the attached draft memo, I don’t know if Jeremy will go for the memo as a
full response to CIA-IR-23. If CIA will not release the six reports with reasonabte
redactions, would you check with Kathy Dyer to see if my memo is unclassified. Let

me know.

”


13-00000

TOP SECRET. ese

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No. 2? : 27 November. 1963
Conclusion
[No Communist Bloc country intends toi cect military action in
[immediate future. (TOP SECRET)

i 1. Bloc Intemational Developments

The Soviet Bloc does not appear to have taken any new initiatives in the past
few days, and it has already issued several unofficial but guardedly hopeful comments.
Soviet Bloc news media continue to reflect Moscow's concern lest a dangerous contro-
versy result from allegations that Cswald's acts were motivated by his Marxist political
orientation. (CONFIDENTIAL)

The Sino-Soviet dispute continues to be treated with restraint by the USSR,
while the Chinese demonstrate n~ signs of moderating their public polemics against
Soviet policies. (CONFIDENTIAL)

ul. Soviet Bloc Military Developments

We have discerned no Soviet or Eastern European Satellite military reaction
to the assassination of President Kennedy. A relatively low level of training, con-
sidered normal for this season, appears to be continuing. (SECRET)

uM.

a {Berlin and Gamat The Soviet note of 21 November on Autobahn pro- >
cedures fogether with the Soviet oral statement of 16 November appeared designed to?
nd the previous round of incidents but at the some time reasserted a Soviet claim to
determine Autobahn procedures. Since the underlying issue remains unresolved, the /
new Soviet: statement could serve as the starting point for a renewal of harassment. *

(SECRET) | —

(2) _J Cuba: The concentration of tanks and self-propelled assault guns noted i
(photography o of 23 and 24 November at the Loma de Tierra and Managua military: ome
‘camps near Havana apparently is in preparation for the 1 Jonuary celebration of the 7,

TAD CEPDET


TOP SECRET

fifth anniversary of Castro's revolution: Similar preparations were noted last HU
December for this purpose. (SECRET)

3. Sino-Indian Border Conflict: We have noted no significant new develop-
ments. (CONFIDENT

4 Vietnam: The accelerated tempo of Viet Cong activity continues. Al-
though confirmed figures on North Vietnamese militory infiltration into South Vietnam
remain considerably below those of last year, newly acquired reports from prisoners

are continuing to raise the 1963 totals, and we believe that additional infiltrators

will be confirmed as further reports are received. (SECRET) \

A renewed North Vietnamese propagonda campaign for the neutralization
of South Vietnam appears to be under way, with Chinese Communist and Soviet support.
For the first time in nearly a year, the Communist-sponsored National Front for the

Liberation of South Vietnam reiterated its support for an intemational guarantee of |
Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam, in line with the proposal of Cambodian Premier L
Sihanouk. North Vietnamese insistence on the withdrawal of US forces indicates that \
Hanoi is not seriously interested in a settlement at this time except on its own terms. \
The North Vietnamese premier reportedly professes to see signs of war weariness among |

the American people and says his government intends to keep uj essure In South
Vietnam. (SECRET) |

5. Laos: The "cease-fire" between the neutralists and the Pathet Lao in the \ |
Plaine des Jarres area has proved ineffective and both sides have continued sporadic
artillery firing in the area. Meanwhile, the neutrolists have continued their limited
offensive in the Vang Vieng-Ban Namone area along Route 13 north of Vientiane
with apparent success. Pathet Loo units reportedly moved to the west of Route 13 and
possibly are regrouping for a counterattock.. (SECRET)

NAL

There are few signs that the Communists ore prepared to make any signifi- |
cant concessions toward an agreement. While they appear to be seeking talks between i
Souvanna and Souphanouvong, they have flatly rejected the establishment of joint
patrols to maintain the cease-fire. Their principal objective apparently is to split }
the Kong Le forces from collaboration with the FAR. (CONFIDENTIAL) \

6. Cambodia: Peiping's reaction to Sihanouk's accusations of US subversion
and to the suspension of US aid to Cambodia has been basically cautious, despite state-
ments of all-out Chinese support against any US-supported invasion of Cambodia.
Peiping's public statements have dealt only with the contingency of armed attack and
have not indicated Its attitude toward subversive activity across Cambodia's borders.
fo Peiping and Hanoi have made the most of the situation by condemning alleged US

\ violations of the 1954 Geneva Agreements and declaring their firm m support for Cam-

\ | bodion "independence « and | neutral ity." he " (CONFIDENTIAL) _

TAD Crort



13-00000

TOP SECRET sesgge=eees

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No./6967 24 December 1963 |
Conclusion i

No Communist Bloc country ‘intends to Initiate direct military action in ™~ I
edo tre. Cor Ct ay

Bloc International Developments

The Soviets, while attempting to assess the new leadership in the US
since the assassination of President Kennedy, have avoided ralsing new frictions in
Soviet-US relations. They have simultaneously been devoting considerable attention
to their domestic. economic problems and to intra-bloc relations. However, we have
noted no significant alteration In ther major foreign policy goals vis-a-vis the West
and we note that Khrushchev has recently reaffirmed Soviet support for “national
liberation" movements and has reiterated Soviet “warnings" against a US attack on
Cuba. (SECRET)

Soviet Bloc Military Developments Baas eeu ieimaae ery

i A further-analysis-of | the- Soviet 1964-65 planand related Information n leads |

| ys to believe that the chemical program will have a limited but significant effect on
| defense procurement during the next two years. (SECRET) |

| Eritical Areas | |

\

i Berlin and Germa: The possibility continues of incidents arising from

|the large number of West Bertners visiting East Berlin during the holidays. Increased |
‘numbers of East German security and military units have been noted along the Wall

\tny what appears to be precautionary measures. (SECRET)

2. Cuba: No significant change in the status of Soviet forces In Cuba has i |
im noted during the past week. (SECRET) | |

The Soviet cargo ship Krasnoye Zi , which arrived at Martel oround |
j

< December, reportedly unloaded smarter SC i |
LA eid oe

TAD SFPDET


TOP SECRET sesso

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

22 Jonvary 1964

» {Conclusion —— 4
\

: | No Combunist Bloc count intends to initiate dire: i i
immediate future. (TOP SECRET)
ae

|
Bloc International Developments |
\

{
| below. (CONFIDENTIAL)

Sino-Soviet Bloc policy developments are included in the relevant sections

Soviet Bloc Military Developments

| Bloc ground force activity continues to reflect winter training on a scale

| generally comparable with that noted last year at this time. The first restriction this
year on travel of the Allied Military Liaison Missions in East Germony has been imposed
for the period 19-26 January in an area west of Berlin which includes the Letzlinger
Heide-Elbe River North traiaisg areas. The restriction is probably intended to, screen

an East German field exercise, possibly involving | elements of both ane districts.
(SECRET eae eee aaa

\ deiisasiaticrassiiosse con

Critical Areos

1. f Berlin ‘and Germany: Ulbricht's latest proposal for @ nuclear-free Germany,
svpplemer fing Khrushchev's end-of-the-year world=wide peace proposal, “appears to be” | \
{largely a propaganda play to boost East Germany's political status. The East German \
regime has kept open negotiations on a new pass agreement and the prospect is for pro-
tracted and difficult talks. The East Germans have already tried to expand the scope of | |
the talks and, as part of their negotiating position, have posed conditions they know to
‘be unacceptable to the West Berlin Senat. The Communists will want to keep the nego-
tiations alive, however, if only to secure tacit Westem acceptance of the principle of =
direct talks between the Senat and East Germans. (SECRET) | {

The rotation of a US battalion to and from Berlin, concluded on 16 Jenvarys | \
> Soviet or or East German interference. (CONFIDENTIAL) renee

2. Cuba: There has been no significant change in the status of Soviet forces in
Cuba. (SECRET)

TAP SECRET

at

i



13-00000

TOP SECRET

Khrushchev on 17 January at Kalinin followed a strong condemnation of the

US position in Panama with a pointed reference to the US naval base at Guantanamo as
"Cuban soil" that "must belong to Cuba." He again reiterated Soviet support for Castro's
"five points," strongly stated Soviet willingness to defend Cuba and emphasized that —
President Kennedy's “no-invasion" pledge was binding on the new US odministration.
While these remarks may have been primarily designed to reassure Castro, these repeated
public statements of support tend to make the Soviet commitment to Cuba more binding.

(CONFIDENTIAL)

[Ree EO ee

3. / Communist Ch The authoritative Chinese Communist newspaper, Pi nople' in
(Bail has echoed Mao Tse-tung's 12 January call for a global struggle on the bre lest

| possible scale against "US imperialist aggression." People's Daily said all forces in the
i | world including the Americon people but excluding “US imperialism and its lackeys"
| | should form the united front. As a further reflection of Communist China's announced
! implacable hostility toward the United States, Peiping is conducting a protest campaign
i against US actions in Panema which now rivals and may exceed in magnitude and intensity
; @ similar campaign against the US during. the Cubanictisis.. While it is less intense than
\ at the time of the American landing in Lebanon in 1958, it appears to be part of a de-
}

liberate program to generate widespread anti-US hostility among the Chinese population.
! (CONFIDENTIAL)

ila Vietnam: Viet Cong armed attacks continue at a reduced level. The Com-

‘ munists, however, are sustaining a high level of harassing and terrorist activity aimed

| at sapping the resistance of the rural population and paramilitary forces. The focus of
Viet Cong activity remains the delta, but we note that the slow but gradual buildup of
Viet Cong numerical and orgonizational strength is also continuing in the Communist
Milltary Region V, the northernmost region of South Vietnam. The scale of this buildup,
in contrast to the low level of Viet Cong activity in this area, suggests a future stepup

of Viet Cong attacks in the north. (SECRET)

At the second Congress of the Communist-sponsored Liberation Front, held
in early January, the chairman stated that the civil war had “entered a new and .
brilliant phose," but continued to caution that the struggle would be “protracted.”
(CONFIDENTIAL)

[i

7 | The military junta continues to be disturbed over talk of a neutralist solution
| for South Viemam. Reports of impending French recognition of Communist China have
\ | apparently also caused a stir in South Vietnamese official circles. (CONFIDENTIAL) —

\
\

7 5. Loos: Action is continuing in the Na Kay area north of Nhommarath.

| Communist forces appear to have made some further gains west of Kham Keut although |

\ \ \the situation i in the Ne 'y plateau area "8 apparently remains ns generally unchanged . - Seine]

TAD SFRRFT



13-00000

TOP SECRET. seuises=*

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED. STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

29 January 1964

Conclusion ~~ ~~ - eure a ~ eeteecostnee cessaaaseeetee
i |

\ No Communist Bloc country intends to initiate direct mi i e
i immediate future. (TOP SECRET)’

Bloc Intemational Developments

| | Soviet Bloc developments are included in relevant sections below. (CON-
| FIDENTIAL)

Critical Areas

it. Berlin and Germany: The Soviet, shootdown of a USAF T-39 over East Germany |
‘on 28 January occurred when the US plane became lost during @ routine instrument train-

| ing flight over West Germany. This is the first such shootdown of an Allied aircraft over
| East Germany since 1953, although there have been numerous inadvertent overflight

| violations in the interim. The 28 January incident followed a Soviet waming on 25

\ January that US violations of the alr corridors would "lead to hard, undesirable conse~
¥ | quences." The incident indicates at least continued Soviet sensitivity both to border
s | violations by Westem aircraft and to any appearance of Soviet weakness on the German

i
“scene. (SECRET) S
| R

2. Cuba: There has been no significant change in the status of Soviet forces In
| Cubs during the post week. (SECRET)

The 22 January Soviet-Cuban communique reiterated previously stated Soviet
commitments to defend Cuba in the event of on invasion by the United States. Mention
' of Marshals Malinovskiy and Grechko, as well as Cuban military personnel, among the
participants in the Soviet-Cuban talks makes it a virtual certainty that military matters
H were discussed. (SECRET)

3. Vietnam: Viet Cong activity has increased somewhat, notably in the intensity (
of armed attacks, but terrorism continues to comprise the bulk of their effort to control i j
| the population. The situation in the Mekong delta and certain other areas remains
critical, and the government is in a race against time to devise effective counter-
i | insurgency measures. However, in several Provinces where able province chiefs have
been recently installed and m:
improved. ~ASECREN)

TOP SECRET



13-00000

TOP SEDRET_ ges

WATCH REPORT -
of the
UNITED STATES a cae BOARD

22 April 1964

eee eee a

No Communist country intends to initiate direct military action in the

‘Immediate future against the United States, tts overseas forces or its Allies.” (TOP ;
SECRET) |

Laos: The intetnal situation remains highly unstable. The situation Is
favorable for Communist gains,

but we have thus far discemed no Communist mili-
tary reaction. (TOP SECRET)
x

Bloc International Developments

i
;
j The celebration this week of Khrushchev's 70th birthday provided a plat-
form for the other Soviet and pro-Soviet East European leaders to declare their support
for Khrushchev's policies and program. There appears to be no serious domestic |
| challenge to his position and he has demonstrated a clear intention to continue to
carry his full burdens of leadership. Khrushchev's announcement on 20 April of a
cut in Soviet production of fissionable materials also suggests that he Intends to
| continue policies designed to convey a sense of reduced East-West tensions. {
(CONFIDENTIAL) |
| | Reports from refugees who arrived in Hong Kong from Sinkiang Province \
| of China on 12 April provide evidence that the Chinese Communists have a systematic |
program for resettling local inhabitants inland along the entire length of at least the |
° Sinkiong frontier and have established a 20-mile deep security zone. The refugees’
report of substantial Chinese troop reinforcements to Sinkiang, however, has not been

confirmed by available evidence. (SECRET)

Critical Areas ~ Seeeeeciees : oe ta)

1. ‘Cuba: Fidel Castro's 19 April speech on the third anniversary of the Bay
of Pigs and President Dorticos' speech the following day appear tv mark the initiation
of a new Cuban diplomatic offensive against the US. The Cuban notes of 21 April
indicate that continued US overfligt.ts and US occupancy of Guantanamo will be

the chief targets of this diplomatic drive. Castro singled out alleged US provocations

: TOP SECRET


13-00000

TOP SECRET 22 April 1964

t at the Guantanamo naval base for special treatment and the next day Dorticos con=
demned continuing violations of Cuban air space. Castro stated that Cuba refused
to sanction or legalize these provocations and overflights and wamed that the limits
of patience are being "dangerously violated." Fidel indicated a willingness to
utilize the forum of international opinion to publicize these provocations, but at the
same time called for increased combat preparedness of his military forces to resist
“physical aggressions" against Cuba “cost what it will and come what may." (CON-
FIDENTIAL)

i A Cuban defector who had been ‘assigned toa SAM cape’ in Pinar del “\
if Rio , Province hos reported that on cll-Cuban crew was to be selected in Moy foran ||
| actual firing of o surface-to-air missile against a drone target. He stated that if

i the firing was successful, and the target was destroyed, it would signal the tumover

| of control to the Cubans and the withdrawal of most of the Soviet SAM personnel .

| (SECRET) \\

2. Vietnam: The Viet Cong are maintaining heavy pressure on govemment fees
| forces in the Delta. Some of the recent attacks have been within 10 miles of Saigon

if and an increasing number of them occurred during daylight hours when the Viet Cong
are most vulnerable. (CONFIDENTIAL) |

| |
! {
| 3. Laos: The intemal situation remains highly unstable following the break- |!
| down of the tripartite discussions at the Plaine des Jarres and the ensuing right-wing ||
| military coup attempt in Vientiane on 19 April. There is a danger of further precipi- i!
tate action by right-wing elements. (SECRET) H

|

| Thus far, there has been no discemible reaction from the Communists, |

| other than the expected propaganda, and they probably consider it to their ad- |

i vantage to maintain a wait-ond-see attitude. If the coalition govemment should \

collapse or be removed, the Communists may move to establish a separate “liberation” |

govemment. There have been a number of reports since last December that the

Pathet Lao and dissident neutralists have made plans, with Chinese Communist and

| North Vietnamese backing, for the establishment of such a government in Phong |

\ Saly Province should the Souvanna government collapse or become too closely

\ committed to the right-wing faction. We have noted a number of other Communist
j
/

|
=
:

\ moves in recent months which could enable the Communists to exploit a collapse
\ of the coalition government. (SECRET)

TAP SFCRET


13-00000

|
|
|
|
\
i

TOP SECRET genyg-scaoa

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

| Conet jusions
|

i No Communist country intends to initiate direct milltary action a Im-

| mediate future against the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies.
Sc eae

| Pathet Loo forces have begun to take advantage of the confusion and further Communist

Laos: The intemal situation remains highly unstable. At the some time,

me action appears likely. (TOP SECRET)

Bloc International Developments

\ The Chinese Communists are unlimbering for a new major anti-Soviet polemic.
| On 27 April the Chinese Communists reprinted the Suslov report, the CPSU resolution

| end the 3 April Pravda editorial attacking the Chinese leadership--Peiping's usual

| preparation for a heavy counterattack. These anti-Chinese documents were Introduced

| by a lengthy ond sarcastic editorial note which promised further Chinese refutation of
Soviet “lies, sophistry and abuse" and taunted the USSR over its inability to supply

| either a rebuff or a joint condemnation of China. We have noted that the Rumanian
Porty Central Committee has demonstrated a remarkable degree of independence ina
resolution published in Scinteia on 26 April proposing again a cessation of Sino-

Soviet polemics and further efforts at a negotiated solution. (CONFIDENTIAL)

Soviet Bloc Military Developments

i
i
|

In East Germany, Soviet military activity appears concentrated on prepara~
\ tens for the annual demonstrations and displays held during May in the Letzlinger
oe training area, which may be longer in duration this year than usual . (SECRET)

A marked drop in tralning activity by Soviet Bloc military forces ts expected _
overs the forthcoming May Day holidays. (SECRET)

Critteal Areas

in Cuba: A 22 April Izvestiya "Observer" article has reiterated previous Soviet
wamings that the USSR will "side with Cubo" if the latter Is subject to on extemal

TOP SECRET



13-00000

|
| Our cumulative evidence suggests that the Communists are working steadily

TOP SECRET

29 April 1964

attack, but avoided any commitment to specific Soviet countermeasures in such an event.
The article also asserted that Cuba has the “inalienable right" to take the "necessary
measures to put an end to the intrusion of foreign warplones into its airspace." The
article may herald a propaganda and diplomatic campaign intended to arouse inter-
national alarm over the US overflights. The Soviets and Cubans may hope that agitation
of the issue would in itself induce the US to eventually curtail or terminate these flights.
(SECRET)

2. ae wii Vietnam: The Viet Cong are increasing their pressure against government
/; forces in the Delta area and in the region around Saigon. The pattem of attacks ond of |
| sabotage actions against lines of communications suggests a Communist effort to isolate ;
district and provincial centers. (SECRET) : if

to improve their capabilities for expanded and sustained military operations. Recently
available information indicates expansion in recent months of some facilities associated
with infiltration routes through Laos--specifically a staging area in North Vietnam on |
Route 12 near the Laos border, and another staging area at Ben Thay on Route 9 in

| southern Loos. (SECRET)
3. Laos: The intemal crisis remains unresolved. (CONFIDENTIAL)

\ Communist attacks against FAR and neutralist positions in eastem Xieng
|. Khouang Province have increased sharply since 26 April, although Kong Le's main
| positions in the Plaine des Jarres area do not seem immediately threatened. Prior to \\
| \ the coup, there had been indications that the Communists were improving their \ \
\ capabilities for attacks In Xieng Khouang Province. A buildup of Communist strength i
has been under way in the Tha Thom area southeast of Xieng Khouang town for several |
weeks and Communist attacks in this area are also possible at any time. In addition, 1
| the Communists have succeeded in reopening Route 7 from North Vietnam, and heavy
| | convoy movement over this road was reported in early and mid-April. (SECRET)

: a
In south-central Laos, truck convoys have been reported over routes leading : |
|
j

| | toward Tehepone and Muong Phine. (SECRET) i
| |

H Within the past several weeks, there have been a number of unconfirmed Vi
reports suggesting an increased Chinese Communist military presence in Laos. Some \
Chinese Communist military personnel are reported to have arrived in Nam Tha and \|
Phong Saly Provinces during February end March. We now have unconfirmed reports

\ Of the presence of Chinese military personnel in Xieng Khouang Province. We are unable, |

| On the basis of present information, to determine the numbers or mission of these personnel .

| (SECRET) ; detieeelay

Ss

TOP SECRET

Bais gir aah

RPT


13;00000

TOP SECRET gauge ners

qs

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No.{717? 20 May 1964

Vy No Communist country Intends to initiate direct military action In the im- i

| mediate future against the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies. (TOP

Career

| | Laos: The Communist capture of the Plaine des Jarres and other positions in
\southeastern Xi eng Khouang Province will place them in control of almost all of Loos

| ‘except for the Mekong Valley. We believe that current Communist operations will

| stop short of attacks against major positions In the Mekong Valley. We believe, how-

| ever, the Communists can bring to bear the necessary forces to accomplish their

| objectives involving ultimate control of Loos at times generally of their own choosing.

| In our judgment, the primary limiting factor is their desire to avoid escalation by .

stimulating US counteractions. The Communists can be expected to proceed at a cal= \

culated pace within this frame of reference with their program. (TOP secre |
H ee ee] ister ————— !

‘Bloc Intemational Developments

The Soviet Union has focused specific attention during the past week on its

support of “national liberation” struggles. In Egypt, Khrushchev has repeated standard
Soviet statements of support for revolutionary movements In colonial areas. The Soviet
Ambassador In Hanoi at a press conference there restated the Soviet pledge of support

. for North Vietnam's aims in South Viemam. Simultaneously, Soviet propoganda media
have carried a number of statements on Cuba, condemning alleged US backing of
Cuban exiles, linking the U-2 overflights to ‘these exiles, and reminding the West of
the still vague Soviet defense commitment to Cuba. (CONFIDENTIAQ

---\. ~The Rumanian-regime reportedly ‘has been conducting on , unprecedented -)
| Gnti-Russian campaign among the populace within the past week. The campaign may

| presage new steps by Bucharest to demonstrate Rumanian independence and will further |
complicate Soviet relations with other Communist countries. The campaign will arouse! |
popular hope for liberalization, although the regime has given little indication of \
i uae its hardline-internal- policies. ~~ (CONFIDENTIAL) —

ae I

fe

TOP SECRET



(eae

E

|
.

|

\

|

|

{

\
\

“(GECREN. oa

|
Soviet air operations during the past week Included reconnaissance flights | |
against the USS Shangri-La in the North Atlantic on 15 May by four TU-95/BEARs ii

and against the USS Midway in the North Pacific on 17 May by six BISONs. In both |

instances fighters from the US aircraft carriers intercepted and escorted the Soviet
heavy bombers while they were in the area. This represents a resumption of recon= \\
naissance flights after several months' lapse. (SECRET)

|
Activity in the Group of Soviet Forces, Germany, hos been at a low level I
since the May Day holidays. It now appears that the annual demonstrations in the |
Letzlinger Heide area, normally conducted during May, were concluded on 28 April |

and were more limited in scope than in previous years. We have as yet no Indications
as to the reasons for this change oe ee :

~ Critical Areas

1. Cubo

“associated | ‘components fo one SAM site in each of the three air defense sectors, as well \
as to the Siguanea site on the Isle of Pines, indicates that on-site support areas are \
being established in selected defense areas. We cannot exclude the possibility that \

some of these sites may also have been chosen for _ practice firings during the comin
weeks, (SECRET)

~ ——__— f

oes i ——

Both Soviet and Cuban propaganda is now linking the US high-oltitude
reconnaissance program to the exile raids by stating that the former provide detailed
Information on Cuban military installations which is used in planning and executing
raids on Cuba. (CONFIDENTIAL)

2. ! Viemam: Viet “Cong -activities ore re increasing “again in ‘umber and severity \
“after @ gradual three-week decline, with an emphasis on armed attacks In the Delta \ \
and the area around Saigon. In the north along the low coastal plain, Viet Cong actions

| continue to consist principally of harassments and terrorism directed against the populace’ :

in the New Rural Life Hamlets. The coastal railroad continues to be a spectal target i
for Viet Cong sabotage. (SECRET) | ;

\

{ We have noted several recent low-level reports Indicating a possible buildup /
of Viet Cong forces in Tay Ninh Province, northwest of Saigon. Cambodian acquiesence |
in Viet Cong activity in Sray Rieng opposite the critical Tay Ninh area will further / /
facilitate Communist operations there. (SECRET) iY

Note is also taken that the sizeable concentration of Viet Cong forces in | |
| Military Region V has experienced re relatively limited military commitment todate.

1e-recent delivery of from 10-to” 20 additfonal missile canisters ‘and, \

pennassiaty

it
|
i

apo



| | No Communist country Intends to initiate direct military action In the

|
|
1
| - The USSR's general behavior on the international scene appears almed i
at avoiding a direct confrontation with the US over current crises. Khrushchev's -
recent remarks on the Issue of US overflights of Cuba are belligerent, and the |
| Sovtets have documented for the record a justification for a U-2 shootdown, but

=

i

i

TOP SECRET

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE 30ARD

AFNINOC, TSC-394-64
Th USAR

Hq.,
Cae
IMTERHAL USE yey

27 May 1964

Immediate future against the United States, Its overseas forces or its Allies.
i ey |

Bloc International Developments

ot oe this ae ae as ae to deter the US from overflights. (SECRET) |
I

[Soviet Bloc Military Developments
|

| The tempo of training within Bloc ground force elements in Eastern
‘Europe Is beginning to rise. Large-scale movements to the field for field training
exercises are now anticipated with the level of training increasing as the summer

training cycle gets under way. (SECRET)
1 ail Areas

1. Vietnam: There has been no discernible change in the pattern of Viet
Cong military activities. A few small-scale attacks have been reported recently,
but terrorism and road sabotage continue to predominate. (SECRET)
Recent cerial photography of truck concentrations and traffic along | \

Route 12 in North Vietnam toward arplapiigt Laos suggests some increase in the |
|

|

southward flow of Communist personnel ttes from North Vietnam along |
toute 12. (SECRET)

2. Laos: Continuing Communist pressure will probably be directed against
Ineutralist forces north of the Plaine des Jarres and sonnen to Indicate an attempt

TAD CCPDET


13-00000

‘ ‘TOP SECRET

{ r-toveliminate the Kong Le troops from Route 7 and open the route westward. South

|. of the Plaine des Jarres, the Pathet Lao also are continuing attacks against Meo
guerrilla bases In an attempt to eliminate the major remaining source of opposition
to Communist control of Xieng Khouang Province. (SECRET)

\ There are reports of Communist movements in southern Laos which could
| Indicate preparations for action in the Attopeu and Saravane areas. (SECRET)

\ The Communist nations hove laid the propaganda groundwork for a
, | withdrawal of recognition from the Souvanna government by their repeated
|” statements that the coalition government Is disintegrating, and Souphanouvong
' «has reportedly threatened that the Communist nations may break relations with
I , Vientiane. (CONFIDENTIAL)

| ‘ The French call for the reconvening of the Geneva conference on
: Loos, which was promptly endorsed by Moscow, has been followed by a proposal
from Peiping that the conference be held In Cambodia In June. None of the
proposals have acknowledged Souvanna's conditions for a conference or included
| | provistons for a cease-fire. All proposals, however, have been made in such a
‘| context as to leave room for consideration of all Indochina as well as Laos. The
| North Vietnamese and Pathet Lao attitudes toward a conference are not yet known.
| | (CONFIDENTIAL)

(Tee a

ee eae

pea +

TAN eranrr



TOP SECRET PEN 1TSC-394-64

Hq., U:

WATCH REPORT had
of the ee
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE 3OARD

No. 718} 27 May 1964

ee i

j
i” No Communist country intends to initiate direct military action in the
i
|

| Immediate future against the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies.
|
‘ca

‘ | Bloc International Developments
fa

\ The USSR's general behavior on the international scene appears aimed
| | at avoiding a direct confrontation with the US over current crises. Khrushchev's
| | recent remarks on the issue of US overflights of Cuba are belligerent, and the
H | Soviets have documented for the record a justification for a U-2 shootdown, but

let

‘at < this oe a as a to deter the US from overflights. (SECRET)
ieee

| Soviet Bloc Military Developments

The tempo of training within Bloc ground force elements in Eastern
| Europe Is beginning to rise. Large-scale movements to the field for field training
| | exercises are now anticipated with the level of training increasing as the summer
l | training cycle gets under way. (SECRET)
i

\
‘ ae titical Areas
iat Vietnam: There has been no discernible change in the pattern of Viet

} | | Song military activities. A few small-scale attacks have been reported recently,
i (but terrorism and road sabotage continue to predominate. (SECRET) |

}

He) Recent aerial photography of truck concentrations and traffic along

_ Route 12 in North Vietnam toward south-central Laos suggests some increase in the
| (southward flow of Com: anoles and/or a from Nosh Vietnam along
Route 12. (SECRET) | . 2G >

\2. Laos: Continuing Communist pressure will probably be directed against
“neutralist forces north of the Plaine des Jarres and appears to indicate an.attempt— -

TAN ecrANcT


13-00000

{( 2 March 1998
(Mary Lou Cummings?
DCI/IRO an

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM: Jd. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, HRP

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-23, Watch Reports of ‘the U.S.
Intelligence Board

1. We have reviewed the Watch reports provided
pursuant to referent request. Likewise an ARRB staff member
has also reviewed the documents.

2. Attached is the proposed ARRB memorandum concerning
what was search and what was found. In addition, the staff
member has proposed that those portions of the reports which
are not related to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR
and redacted as the reports are processed for release by
HRP. Also attached is HRP’ memorandum in response to the
request.

3. Kathy Dyer reviewed the ARRB draft memorandum on 24
February and passed on its content as unclassified. In
addition, Kathy agreed to a redaction process with respect
to the reports which would leave in the headings of all
paragraphs despite the redaction of the whole paragraph.

4. Would you please review both the ARRB and HRP
memoranda and concur with same or advise if changes need to
be made. In addition, do you have any problem with the plan
to leave in all paragraph headings?

5. Thank you for your assistance on this fe teeaes

badd plbad of EmFy Dyer ene feo Cmcbal Song

oer tard che orbl & wtanly diay ovat out bake
ln bt Thay. fib une Gg

(Mary bn) cabled Farha we USO 3AM: Saed sh,


13-00000
i jite 7
CIA ‘SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

2 March 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: TT. Jeremy Gunn, Esq.
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, HRP

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-23, Watch Reports of the U.S.
Intelligence Board

1. This is responsive to subject request.

2. The Agency has made a concerted search of its ~
records for the records requested via CIA-IR-23. The
results of that- search are in the form of a number of Watch
Reports for the period 27 November 1963 through 27 May 1964.
The reports have been reviewed by a member of the ARRB staff
and a number of paragraphs were found which contained
information somewhat related to the assassination story.

3. The Agency has agreed to include the reports
within the materials being processed for release to the
National Archives. coe

4. Accordingly, it is believed that this request is

complete. If you have any questions about our handling of
the reports, please advise.

Jd. Barry Harrelsi

”


13-00000

MEMORANDUM

March 3, 1998

To: Jeremy Gunn © ‘ON
Executive Director ‘
ce: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs Wiidtle. ae

Special Assistant for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board

In response to ARRB’s informal request for additional information and records
CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National Intelligence Program
Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports,
action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological files for the period January
1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy.

The search produced eight United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports from the
period 27 November 1963 to 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these eight documents
consisting of 14 pages and have marked portions of six reports as assassination records:
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, 22 January 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April 1964,
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President's Intelligence Checklist and the President's Daily Brief, these
documents cover multiple topics. I recommend that the portions of the document not
believed to be relevant to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

”
Once the six marked reports have been included for processing as assassination records, -
this response is complete.

e:\combs\cia-ir23
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4


CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Memorandum DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
February 9, 1998 IN THIS DOCUMENT
To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
cc: Bob Skwirot : *s
CIA Coordinator
From: Michelle Combs

Special Assistant for Research and Review

Subject: CIA-IR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board’

In response to informal request CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National .

Intelligence Program Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligence;
Board Watch Reports, action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological.
for the period January 1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassi
President John F. Kennedy.

‘The search produced eight United States igence Board Watch Reports 'from the
period 27 November 1963 - 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these eight documents,

consisting of 14 pages, and have marked portions of six reports as assassination reco!
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, 22 Sheers 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President’s Intelligence:C! i and the President’s Daily-Brief, the
documents cover multiple topics. I recommend that the ‘portions of the docume
deemed related to the Kennedy. assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

Once the six marked reports have been iticluded for processing as assassination records,
this response is complete.

DRAFT



ve Cif LR AaB

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

1,» & *
‘fey yo"

December 18, 1997 a NO OBJECTION To
LASSIFICAT| .

Mr. John Pereira RELEASE OF CI INFOM GR

Chief INTHIS DOCUMENT “TON

Historical Review Group

Center for the'Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for
Additional Information and Records 9

Dear John:

Tam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

” several requests, and. many others have been answered in part, a significant.number of -:..-— —
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two ‘
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only tp have promised dates come and.go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. : The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
igs pe bb dense We request that the remaining requests."
be answered by April 1/1998.) |:

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal :
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the”
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03 :
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
‘Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boano Mémsens: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff » Kermit £. Hall « William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson


13-00000

rs

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 12

“CIA-IR-22 “A” File on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison. —

In July 1997, the ARRB staff-was shown an “A” file on Clay Shaw which pre-
dated a 201 file. We were also told that an “A” file on Jim Garrison also existed.
The Shaw file was declared to be an assassination record and it was our
understanding that both files were to be sent to HRG for processing. We have
not yet received confirmation from HRG that the files are in process as
assassination records.

.IA-IR-23 Watch Committee Files.
In his memoirs, George Ball reports that upon first hearing of the shots in Dallas
he called DCI John McCone and asked him to activate the Watch Committee.
McCone replied that he already had. The Review Board requests the files of the
Watch Committee for the period January 1963-May 1964.

CIA-IR-24 Defector File.

The ARRB staff has-identified documents ont Léé Harvey Oswald fromthe Orie 7
of Security’s “Defector File.” It is our understanding that thesedocuments are ~
now being processed as assassination records. No further tasking on this subject

is anticipated. »

CIA-IR-25 Zapruder Film.

The Board has requested any and all records, not previously located in the «
Sequestered Collection, on any handling by the CIA of the Zapruder film: “In
particular, we are interested in any records of NPIC’s handling of the Zapruder
film or copies of the Zapruder film in November and December 1963. Any log
books or indexes which would indicate the individuals involved in the
processing and handling of any assassination films should be included in this -
request.

CIA-IR-26 Jordan James Pfuntner.

pesca ibis ER

The Review Board requested that a complete search for any records on this
individual be undertaken, including a search of the Interagency Source Register
The ARRB staff provided HRG with additional identification data on this
individual. The Review Board seeks a full and accurate formal response to this
