# 104-10163-10011

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10163-10011

)?.".

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

801 00179,

11 Septenber 1963

Dally Log

•PAULMORT

cat nis chier would not release hin for the several days. requirod lor

the lexico tripo

In being asker if he objocted to our discussing th

strialson with his chief, Shsassald that ho had no objoctions, but haJi

did express enricem about fis job.

o be laurilled. on further query, CAssanured that his job was not

said that he would make the dy

trip 1s we could get tie approval of his chief.

Zan in the meantime, SAs/Seculty cane up with insemation on CASASO] 05

FLEm, and espectally on his chief, HALLSCH

cloarance permitting us to diacuss our uttlization of CAStS with HALoer

8406

8906

Bohen Is Co, (90 0206127 08

0680

DOB: 28 May 1916

Add8 porch 24th Stroor,: Camp H111

i Pa. 08

1018. 1737-7875

Hil. Soro:

West Point 1937) Engineering

iotired 30 June 1952 09

Losion of Merit

ironzo Star,

Oak Leaf Cluster

occupations

Oractor of General Engineoring DivIsion,

Canett, Peming, Corddry and Carpentor, Inc,] 29

600 N. 2nd Sto, Harrisburg, Pa.

1018 238-0451

3o

@NIELISUN

berore batting up to harrisburg to taíto PALLOCK, wa telephone

sin at his office to inquirn as to his avallability.

He was, howevar.

already well aware of our concern, havirs discused tha matter with CASAS 05

at mnon Lapparently just after se called ASAnd mentioned that we woula o 5

contact his chief). Although we pointed out clearly that CASAS was required 05

to provice vital asststance in an offori of considerable vaivo to ire U.s.

Government, HALIOCX replied that his firm also had a priority requiremert

of Importance involving the Government of Costa Rica: in connection wich

th1s job, Cossa Rica had sent an ongineer to deal with the firm; this unginser

tould bo in harrisourg until the oná of the month.

CASAS -TabBErco BouLa D5

sosult in inactivity on the part of this onginoer.

and every day lost

would be.contrary to the requironents of the rontract between the f1rm lo

and the Government of Costa Rica. WALLOCK)added that CASAS had Lold him

that he did not want in leavn h1s ranignment.

Although Hallock wes probanly

OY JaRusIng CAsASAgorvIeDE through solI - his cirala - intoroat, I loal thar

055 CASAS de rinItely astos MAlLOrY to put up as sirong a resistanco so his

HA, BAH: 334019

05

06

/ll Sept 13

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

291BR

---

## Page 2

• 2 =

talonso as prosible.)

111 be carded appropriatoly

o AZUE whon they ano abriloualy ongor to uno sor the pitch offorto.

C: 2017334089

(P2

4/BR

---

