# 104-10308-10124

## Page 1

AAAA

T104-10308-10124

ROM

STION:

NFO :

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

l8z".

: "DIRECTOR

2

3

UMMAVE

SAS

DDP, ADDP, C/SOD 4, C/CI, C/FI 2, RF 2

INTELL

RPTSI

OPSUP

SO/AR

SO/SB

4

SEPT

SPERS

LOG

FIN

SEC

MARI

TR/O

SECRET 08D020Z

DIR CITE WAVE 2316

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduca

1 SUN 952 85

C/S COMMENT:

*AMFAUNA-1 HAS NOT .

RYBAT TYPIC AMFAUNA

EXPLAINED HOW HAPPENED RESUME CON-

REFA. DIR 53102

TẠCT WITH AMFAUNA-7 IN OWVL NO 36.

B. WAVE 8952

LIN.

17155)%

HAVE REQUESTED THIS AND OTHER ESSEN-

TIAL DETAILS WHEN RECEIVED. WILL

ADVISE.

1. AMFAUNA-I HAS REPLIED TO OWVL NO 36 QUERY AS FOLL IN SW

MSG NO 134 DATED 15 JULY RECEIVED 30 JUL: AMFAUNA-T WANTED FIVE

THOUSAND PESOS FOR PURCHASE TWO CARS. THESE AND TWO OTHERS WHICH

AMFAUNA-T'S UNIDENTIFIED FRIEND ALREADY HAD TO BE LOADED WITH

EXPLOSIVES AND PARKED ON STREET WHICH AMTHUG HAS TO USE WHEN GOING

TO SLEEP AT HOME OF LADY FRIEND. AMFAUNA-7 ALREADY RAISED FIVE

THOUSAND PESOS BY SELLING PERSONAL JEWELRY, AND ATTEMPT TO BE MADE

SOON. CONSPIRATORS UNAWARE TRUE IDENTITY AMFAUNA-!, BUT DO KNOW

THẠT ABOVE DETAILS BEING FORWARDED ODYOKE.

• IN SU MSG NO 143 DATED L AUG RECEIVED 5 AUG AMFAUNA-1

REPORTS INFO RECEIVED FROM

THAT ATTEMPT ON

AMTHUG'S LIFE HAD BEEN PREPARED FOR 26 JULY BANQUET PRESIDENTIAL

PALACE. LARGE CALIBER MACHINE GUN ON TRIPOD HAD BEEN DISCOVERED

BEHIND CURTAIN. AMFAUNA-! COMMENTED THIS HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH

ANFAUNA-7'S, PLAN WHICH STILL PENDING.

SECRET

IN TOUCHI

GROUP i

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-

GRADING. AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

z/MV

---

