# 104-10063-10149

## Page 1

1104-10063-10149

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

0ст 2 10•52:72

SECRET DISIOZ OCT 72 RESTRICTED HANDLING

CITE

1341

PRIORITY HEADQUARTERS.

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REFS: A. HEADQUARTERS 1653 OVENA

Bo

1SĂn 28 Vep 12

1. MELVIN MCN A I R (DPOB 38 OCT 48, GREENSBORO,

NO CO), ONE OF THE HIJACKERS OF A DELTA AIRLINES PLANE ON

3D JULY, APPEARED LNFALL 2 OCT 72 TO OBTAIN US PASSPORTS

FOR

HIS TWO CHILDREN AND FOR THE CHILD OF GEORGE EDWARD

WRIGHT (DPOB 3/29/43, HALIFAX COUNTY, VA.), AND

JOYCE TILLER SON DPOB 6/6151, SPARTANBURG, S.C.J.

DURING CONVERSATIONS WITH FLANIK, MCNAIR MADE FOLLOWING

REMARKS WHICH GENERALLY CONFIRM GLDUEL/I'S INFO REPORTED

02

REF B.

2. WILLIAM HOLDER, A WESTERN AIRLINES HIJACKER,

DEFINITELY NAMED BY BLACK PANTHERS (BP, INTERNATIONÃL SECTION,

AS ITS ALGIERS HEAD. HOLDER WAS PICKED BECAUSE BP INTERNA-

TIONAL SECTION STILL UNDER CONTROL OF ELDRIDGE C L

VER

(2x1-817897) AND NONE OF THE OTHER BP ASSOCIATES IN ALGIERS

1. :

DUP OF 7112

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM

CL BY 059876

3/00

---

## Page 2

14-00000

17-27

PAGE 2

1341 SECREI

WANTED TO WORK WITH CLEAVERS. PETER O' NIA L (281-856553),

FOR EXAMPLE, RECENTLY LEFT THE COUNTRY AND DONALD C O X

1201-851941) CLAIMS THAT HE WANTS TO MINIMIZE FURTHER ASSO-

CIATION WITH CLEAVER SINCE CLEAVER HAS SUCCEEDED IN "ONLY

IRRITATING THE ALGERIANS." (MCNAIR HAS NOT SEEN COX FOR .

ABOUT IWO WEEKS.>

30 MCNAIR, HOLDER AND OTHER HIJACKERS LIVE AT THE BP

POINTE PESCADE VILLA AND RARELY SEE CLEAVER WHO IS LIVING

IN HIS VILLA IN EL BIAR. MCNAIR SAID ALGERIANS KEEP A

"CLOSE EYE" ON CLEAVER AND HIS WIFE, ALSO NOW IN ALGIERS.

4. THE HIJACKERS MAVE BEEN ISSUED NO DOCUMENTATION BY

THE ALGERIANS. THERE ARE NO RESTRICTIONS ON THEIR MOVEMENTS

EXCEPT THEY HAVE BEEN ADVISED NOT TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE

• PROVINCE OF ALGIERS.

5. MCNAIR SAID HE HAD NOT REALLY BELIEVED THAT THE

ALGERIANS WOULD RETURN TO THE US THE ONE MILLION DOLLARS

INVOLVED IN THE DELTA HIJACKING. HE SAID HE WAS AWARE BEFORE

THE HIJACKING WAS PLANNED THAT THERE WERE REPORTS THAT THE

5B0 THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM THE WESTERN AIRLINES HIJÄCKING HAD

BEEN RETURNED, BUT HE DID NOT BELIEVE THE REPORI SINCE HE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

17.87

PAGE

3

1341 SECRET

ALSO AWARE THAT THE HIJACKERS IN THAT CASE WERE FREE IN

ALGIERS• ALSO, MCNAIR REASONED THAT SUCH A LARGE SUM WOULD

OVERRIDE ALGERIAN POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN THEIR DECISION

ON THE MONEY'S DISPOSAL.

6. THE RECENT RAID ON THE BPP HEADQUARTERS BY ALGERIAN

AUTHORITIES WAS TRIGGERED BY CLEAVER'S OPEN LETTER TO PRESI-

DENT BOUMEDIENE DEMANDING RETURN OF THE HIJACK

MONEY. CLEAVER'S LETTER WAS WRITTEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL

OF THE REST OF THE BPP MEMBERS IN ALGERIA AND CAUSED A

MAJOR SPLIT IN THE PARTY.

7. MCNAIR APPEARED AT EASE IN FLANIK'S OFFICE AND

QUITE TALKATIVE, ALTHOUGH MUCH OF THE CONVERSATION CENTERED

ON HIS TRIP TO ALGIERS. HE APPARENTLY SURPRISED TO FIND

ALGERIA SUCH AN ADVANCED COUNTRY. HE HAS NO DOCUMENTATION

• EXCEPT AN AMERICAN DRIVER'S LICENSE AND WHEN ASIED IF HE

WISHED TO APPLY FOR A US PPT, HE REPLIED THAT "WE HAVE NO

WHERE TO GO, SO i GUESS NOT." MCNAIR EXPECTED TO RETURN-

LNFALL NEXT FEW DAYS IO SEE WHAT PROGRESS FLANIK HAS MADE ON

PPT APPLICATIONS.

8 SIGNIFICANI ASPECTS OF ABOVE INTERVIEW BEING SENT

---

## Page 4

14-00000

.. 4.

17.27

PAGE 4

1341 SE CRET

LNGOLD VIA LNFALL CHANNEL •

SECREI

E2 IMPDET

---

