104-10164-10092| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

yel

. Nin eta,
ona, BARA PROSSER

UNIT. WH/3/MEXECO

ext. 5940

Date. 16 WAY 1962

To . MBXICO CLTY

ftom. DIRE
Cony, An8
Into + OPS, 0S 2, S/¢ 2

—_—___.
oO waxE iro cre on 10°24

REP, EXT 0691 (ZN 24774)

Ye SURI REY DORM & COTOAER 1991 IN CHICAGO, WAS ISSUED PASSPOCT
2456982 OM 11 COTOBER GO POR TVO MONTHS VISIT CRITRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
AND CARIBSEAN AREAS FOR PLEASURE, SXAMLUATION OF PASSPOMT APPLICATION.
INDICATED THAT SUBJ STARTED TO PUT SEPARATRO. UNDER MARRIAGE STATUS THEN
cacssro If QUT AHD INDICATED TUAT MARRIAGE NOT TERMINATED, AS OF SUN 61
SURI WAS WORKING UNOER LICENSE OF TIE ACCURATE DETECTIVE LABcMATORIES,
WUSINESS CARD INDICATEO TINT CROANIZATICH CONDUCTRO INVESTIGATIONS, PROVIDED
GUARD SRAVION, WAD UNOBSCOVER OPERATIVES AND FURNISHED POLYGRAPH ERANINATICON
PREK-VAS METABLESHED 1H 1931 AND 28 LOOATED AT: 166 WaT WASUINGTON. STRENT CHICAGO,
GORS CLAIMED TO HAVE WORKED WETH CYROSM, THIS OR THB PACT THAT SUBJ

\

hs
i
if

on comm TRACES NOT YET RECRIVED, :
' [nb OF MEBSAGS ‘ F
eee besmects Elaherd 6, Gata cts wassasunsed vints t2 Station, Bold bs bed.

dnvestigative: ageney Meniee foe purpess pobies tesinizg Keak car's

wk agente fa invest techalques sof use-of 10 Gatesier,. Sale a
7 cit AO Was haves enka eee

pile - Simmiere  (yntlse)

S PeveaoIWe epsiene | sncant | aurnantee ee onriens
; _ REPRODUCTION BY OTHER.THAN THE ISSUING OP/ICE 16 PROHIBITED; .

Copy Nes
reve
