# 104-10186-10254

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10186-10254

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT

ASINEORMATI EPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. CSCI 316/01203-6-1

SUBJECT. Ovidio SAMA Vlanonte

DATE DISTR. 15 September 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES.

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Mashington,

.

.C.

DATE ACQ. September

1964

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

FIELD REPORT NO.

2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing

personality information provided by the source and includes

supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Ovidio SAMA Viamonte, pseudonym "Salgado," is the Cuban

Vice Consul at Veracruz, Mexico.

He was recently (Apr11 1964)

indived in the shooting of an individual who attempted to

omb the Consulate: SAMA is out of fail on bail.

Source said

hat SAVA is an officer of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

source has no documentary proof, he said he knew of SAMA's

intelligence affiliation from his own (Source's) trip

o dexico, from observations in the del Headquarters, and Iros

eneral shoptalk.d,2,3,4,:

Headguarters Comments

1. An April 1963 report identified Ovidio SAMA Viamonte, Cuban

passport number 63/174,

as a Cuban diplomat assigned

Cuban Consulate in Veracruz, Mexico.

2.

A usually rellable source, in a report dated 2: May 1963,

stated that Ovidio SAXA was the Cuban Vice Consul in Veracruz,

Mexico, and that he was quite sick with an amoeba.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I NAVY

AIR

INSA •

I SAX

OCR

CINCSOE I&NS

5

4

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

(Note: Field dietritution indicated by " =".)

INFORMATIONSREPORT S

INFORMATLON-REPORT

HU/SALEOBI HE SAR

HH/SA: MOBI

-HELMADR

SH/SA/R

LAIL/SA/CL

LICI/LIA

2 CL/R&A

¡LIE, CAN ADAIR

÷3JE/BRLTLSIDI

17*-1674

NO PROJECT (AMHUG/1

CSCI-316/01203-64

BIDLAN.

'COORDINATING

TOTALS

LIaISON

WH/SA 7 (1),

WE 1 (2), CI +, RID 1

315R

wk

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEX ESCI-316/01203-64

- 2-

3. An untested source, in a report dated 28 Nay 1963, said he had

received a letter on 14 lay 1963 from & friond of his in Cuba who

reported that an agent of the Cuban G-2, posing as a representative

of the Political Department of the Institute for Friendship with

Peoples,

arrived recently in Mexico. The agent, known only by the

nickname "SAMA," is operating in Voracruz, Mexico.

4.

A usually reliable source, in. a report dated 6 June 1963, stated

that Ovidio SAMA, an employee of the Cuban Consulato In Veracruz,

was in Mexico City where his wife had just arrived from Cuba.

5.

On 16 April 1964, two newspapers reported that Ovidio SAMA

Viamonte, the Cuban Consul

at Veracruz, Mexico, was Jailed in

Mexico City on 16 April 1964 after shooting and wounding Alejandro :

REINOSO Herrera, a Cuban exile. REINOSO threw two Molotov cocktails

at the Consulate.

3220

SECRET

YO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

