# 104-10297-10109

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10297-10109

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(5);

TO

PHON

DiruCtOr

Pidural BurIEU of InvisElfation

Attration: Mr. 5. J. Papica

• Doputy Diractor (Plans)

SUBJECT. I OUDIO GovarAsonE in Exilo

Interail Security - Cuba

?.%:

1.

Refurenco la mado to your letter datod 2 Bobruary 1961, your

Pile No. 105-95357, Bubj:cE as abovi.

2. The Information see forth below relative to plan, for the

formation of a cuban goparnaunt la calle la for yuur confidential

information and should recuive no furthir dluuedinarion outildo your

201196435

Nigutlations aro curruntly dabino place bueNcun tienuul Antondo

dO VAPORA Of tDI Preati Euvolucionario DuDaCIntICO (FRD)

and Manuel MAY MR.

of the sovimicro pirolucionarlo dal purblo lini) fer chu purpone ol

establlihing a Revelutionary Council which would bi: ripresentativs of a

broAd stratul of dubon politscil, ¿concuie und suctel thinieng, Ray and

VAkOlA hava ford un organizing

comuleted which do compound of th

Pollouing indiultuals: RAY; VARONA; JUSTO CARILLO HUMANdER; MODUUL

The committre das draftid a tantatius platfore for the forth-

coning Revolutionary Council ond bos sluitionally preparad a slate of

a1s candidates, ons if abes vill bi solected us Chalran of the Counchl.

TheSE IndUliUBli erS JOE- MIRO CArdONa; VUTONA; CARILLO; CarlOs HEVIA: NIR

5. Alter thu lit of all candicatas has ben circularad la Guba

and enong cuban erfles, lt li enticipates that tha orgaalclag cosmittea

Vet or de need the chide, true the litant of ea

Interte:, le do possible elas cha organialry, cunnietou say bave duca

enlarged by the addition of duFilIanO SANDiEZ ArTERSO Any JaSUu PENNAMOKE

. Any sdustional into pertaining to tha abova uietar volch comes

so thie attention of tais agency dill bu formardid prooptly to the Bureau.

CSCI-5/764,431

AHV4/CI/RiHopkins: 5e

16 March 196%

Distribution:

Or1g & 1

"Adressee J- R1

1 - CI/R&I:

- CI-LIA

1 -WH/R; 2 - 1764/C1

IS GOP% Based on:

DBE 68003, 21 Peb. 1961

19-124-25

hs.

---

