# 104-10213-10011

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10213-10011

231

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

marian

ATTAGMENT & 1

S0/:9823 31S P213ASZ3304

---

## Page 2

14-00000

9 May 1977

SUBJECT: Cubana Flights

1. The lexico Station surveillance of Cubana flights in

1963 consisted of a unilateral group (LIFIRE) and two separate

groups (LITEMPO and LIEVOY) handled jointly with the 'exican

Goremment.

a. LIFIRE was handled by Robert Feldmann. These sources

observed arrivals and departures of Cubana flights. They

reported any unusual incidents and provided copies of the

flight manifests.

This travel has routinely reported to

Washington by cable (JNGIN Cuban Travel):

A copy of the

manifests was sent later by dispatch to Washington with

the same reporting crypt.

b. LITEND and LIENVOY were handled (on the policy level)

by the OS with high ranking Vexican Government officials.

I made the daily pick-up meetings with Career Agent Jeremy

‹. Benadum for LITEPO and Staff Agent Arnold F. trehar

or LIENTOY. LITENRO was a surveillance team of Mexicar

Security Service Officers. They operated a concealed

passport camera and photegraphed incoming passengers'

passports from the Cubana flights.

No outgoing passports

vere photographed because the facilities for departures

'ere located at the other end of the airport and not

They also

provided us with a list of the ircoming passengers on the

Cubana flights. (50-6-91/ Job ó7-200/50, Box 13). LIEvVOY

•provid ease pope one sation te the and ofice

and the Mexican Airport Control Office.

2. I checked with Robert Feldmann who said he thought all of the

Cubana flights were passenger flights.

A review of the transcripts for

the Commercial Office of the Cuban Embassy for late 1963 indicates that they

were Shipping large quantities of automobile parts, foods and medicines

from Mexico City to Havana by Cubana Airlines. Statements to clients on

what day they could send cargo and packages by Cubana led me to the

conclusion that all the flights to Mexico City from Havana could carry

passengers but some of the flights out were basically cargo (with the

capability of also carrying a few passengers).

From manifests, it appears

that Cubana made a flight from Havana to Yerico City and return every

other day. There was a flight on 22,

25, and 27 Vovember 1963. The

22 and 25 lovenber flights carried passengers. The 27th lovember flight

carried 75 passengers to lexico and returned with LOPEZ and it is believed

• a plane load of cargo. (LITEMPO passenger list attached).

---

## Page 3

14-00000

r99'r

Policula !. ">

Rollo 19

Encargado de ISTMO: MIFCIAL TALAIJI ITRA:

Agente Com!

'_) 108 LUIS FLORES DCHINGUE

PASASETOS QUE BLEGAFON EN EL VUELO 464 DE LA COMPAÑIA CUBANA DE AVIACIO!

CELENTES DE CUER FIL DIA 22 DE TOV INOPE de 1963. ILE 12120 HORASa

NOMBRES.

NACIONALIDAD.

- 1.- BERiARDO L.HIPHILA Y ViGUEZ.

СОціА.

12.- MARIA DEL CAR'EN LOPEZ TRUJILLO.

HEXICANA.

3.- LETICIA RODRIGUEZ LOFES.

PEL:ICANA.

, 4.- JOSE ARTURO POLRIGUEZ LOPEZ.

"5.- BENITO MACIÇUES SOTO.

- 6.- BERIA ROSA GOMEZ TEJERA.

7.- MARIA ORISTELA MOUTEAGUDO LOPEZ.

8. - IURIANO ANTOLIN LUIS BLICO GUINTERO.

-9.- ANGEL DELFIN EDUARDO LUARCA ESPINOZA.

IC. - JUANA ESTHER TALAVERA I PALElZUELA.

11.- ARSENIO GARCIA Y FERNANDEZ.

112.- MARTHA BEATRIZ LOINAR AGUDO.

- 13.- WONG WING CHI.

14. - HUGO CASTRO RAMOS.

15.-JUSTIMA DE LA COLCEPCION RAMOS JIENEZ.

¿16.- HUGO ANTONIO CASIRO REYES.

"17.-CARIOS HUMBERTO FULLES ALVAPEZ.

18.-11 PURGIA ROQUE HERRERA.

I9,-AMADORA MARIA LOPEZ Y FERNANDEZ.

20.-JOSE MANUEL LAELAS LATRA.

121. ALFREDO ALEJANDRO ROQUE HERRERA.

'22. HARIA ¡ONTAÑO ARTEAGA.

: 23.-EDUARDO MONTATO ORTEGA.

/24.- ARADEL OBDULIA. MARTIN GUERFA.

25-- EM: LIO FERRER Y SAGRA.

26.- ESTHER GENARA SANTA MARIA COLULAT.

27.- MADALINA LABBE I MAPREi.

"28. - VIOLETA JUSTINA FUENTES STAFEZ.

• 29.- JUSTINA VIOLETA RIOSECO FUENTES.

'30. - IELMA ROSA SOLER ARIIS.

31.- CAULENCIA JONAS NUÑEZ.

132.- AGUSTIN ALFREDO FOQUE ANIREU.

,33.- ALFPEDO JUAN COLLAZO LAÑEZ.

-34.- OFELLA GONZALEZ FERNANDEZ.

. :

CUBAid.

UBAYA.

CUSAITA.

CONAIA.

CUBANA.

CUBAl:A.

CUBAHA.

CUSA:A.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBiA.

CUSAiLA.

CUBAITA.

CUSAIA.

CUBANA.

CUBAiA.

CUBAiA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUSAHA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA®

CUBAiA.

CUBAiTA.

CUELA.

"CURARA.

15-049

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Hoja número 2.-

RES:

MACIONALIDAD.

36. - JUANA MAPIA QUITAVA MARTINEZ VIERA.

37. - ALFREDO LUNELA CASTIÑEIRO.

38. MARIA TERESA LONGA RUIZ.

39.- HILDA RUIZ ACOSTA.

40. - CRISTOBAI MANUEL LUGA FUIZ.

41. - ELVIRA JOSEFINA DE IS MERCEDES BUENO.

42. - ELVIRA MESA MARTINEZ.

43. - ESPERANZA SEVERA TANES FARDIAS.

44. - ESTHER MARIA SOSA INFANTE.

'45.- PETRA ESTELA HERRERA DOMINGUEZ.

4600 MARIA DE LOS ANGELES FERMAILEZ PEREZ.

47. JOSE FERNANDEZ PEREZ.

ó 4ã. - CATALINA TERESA FEREZ GOlIZALEZ.

249. - MANUEL FERMANDEZ FAJARDO.

50.- JOSE FRAICISCO PABLO HAY DE LA PUENTE.

,51.- MARIA COLCEPCION PATRICIA GOlEZ FERRER.

52. - PRINCISCO ALBARIO MONZO FERNANDEZ.

53.- ADRIAN FILARIO CONZALEA ESCAMILIA,

,54. - JESUS MARIA MENIEZ CARCIA.

55. - EFIESTINA DE LA SAITISILA VIRGEN BERRAI GONZALEZ. CUBANA.

56.- JESUS SIXTO GARCIA BERNAL.

57 - OSCAR ARCADIO SORI MARQUEZ.

-58.- LYDIA FERNANDEZ MONTEAVARO.

•59.- SARA MARTA NEVYS BARFERA.

60. • EDUARDO SORIA LEVYS.

-61. - JOSE MANUEL GONZALEA FERHANDEZ.

•62.- ARGELINA CRISTINA LODOZA BARBERENA.

,63. - LUIS ENRIQUE PADRON JACOBO.

_ 64. - ROSARIO ESTHER HORTENCIA GONZALEZ FERNANDEZ.

65.- MARIA FERRER GARGIA.

66.- JUANA ANADA DE LA OSA ARMAS.

67.- AÑA MORRAI & MAYA.

68. - EUGENIA PEREZ MORHAI.

69.- VITTORIA GONZALEZ FERNANDEZ.

20. - BASTON PIREZ PERSZ.

CURAIA.

CUBAiA.

CUBILIA.

CUBAITA.

CUBANA.

CUBANIA.

CUSAiTA.

CUBASTA.

CURAlIA.

CUBANIA.

CUBAITA.

CUBANA.

CUBANIA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBATiA.

CUBAiLA.

CUBARA.

CUBANA.

CUBAIA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBARA.

CUBANA.

CUBANA.

CUBARA,

CUBAJA.

CUBAIA.

CUBAITA®

CUBANA.

. CURAlId.

CUBARA.

": CUBANA.

• •

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Hoja aúnero 30--

stos

MOMBRES.

-21. EUMA RODRIGUSE ROUiS.

72.- VICTORIA GEROGINA HAYAS RUIZ.

73. - CECILIO MORALES SOTO.

74.- FIDEL FRIETO LUNA.

'75.- JOSE ANGEL QUEINALILDiOS ALENAIY.

RACIONALIDAD...

CUBA'".

CUBAILA.

COBATA.

ARGEITINA.

: 34

---

