104-10165-1044 [
7) | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

“

weer pf AC|- 353167

. A CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

FO cop, a20e, woos, ca 2, ca/oee, ca/rsar, crfors, care 2, rs, etfo, rafint , :
w/a 12, w 9, wR Co

SUPCATA: AMTAUP=2_ IN 00-1192 CF 2's AUG 6 FAOH REIMALDO PADRE
MiCROFILMED

PARA } BASED UFG-5759- RID: KORE, FILED: 2621192

REPORT CLASS CORF IDENTIAL connacutes BISSEN

cUsA

1

g SUBJECT: RESIGNATICN CF ROGEL iG CiEREROS oust Fora
LEsb/ss

NU gURE'S RATIGL EXECUTIVE :

“8 DO!: 22-24% AUG 64 fesse
ui PADA: UNITED STATES, MiAMI (25 ALG 64)

Ac By

i SOURCE: A HOGER CF A GROUP OF CLSAN EMIGRES
f OF INFORMATION Canad aid THe C=CLP HAS PROV I OEFEREFE:_ BERGA acren's fon

Ud



CONRBENT CEATRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY @nourme 5 4

oa Intelligence Information Cable ie i
Couey cua TOCSo8-315/00568-64 ie
+ SDATEQE «= 22-24 aucust 1968 DSR 29 aucust 1964 i .

‘SURECT H

RESIGNATION OF ROCELIO CISAEROS DIAZ AND OTHCA meMEERS Hi |

sOF JuRe"S saTiomaL CxceuT ive fig

ie

i Sita. umireo states, mianr (25 avcusr 196%) oF : N eT. -

Y

FIED EEPORTNO. «ure 5764

A MEMETR OF A GROUP CF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IM THE TECHRIQUES OF INFORMATION
COLLECTION, THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS FOR ABOUT THREE YEARS.
THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM REIXALDO PADEON.

1... REINALDO PADRON, A “LOSE. ASSOCIATE GF ROGEL!O CISNEROS DIAZ
OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCICHARIA CUBAKA (JU@E, CUSAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA), 4
SAID THAT CISNEROS PRESENTED HIS RESIGNATICN FROM MEXGERSHIP IN YURENS:

<2700 =

RATIONAL EXECUTIVE TO MAKUEL RAY RIVEFO CH 22 AUG Ge. IN ADDITION, |
THE RESIGNATIONS OF MARIA ANTONIO GARCIA, SECRETARY GF ORGANIZATION |:
; OF THE FEMININE SECTION OF JURE'S MIAMI DELEGATION, AND JORGE

a
ESTEVA VARELA, MIAMI DELEGATE, HAD SEEN PRESENTED TOGETHER
4
i

WITH THAT OF CISNEROS,

2. ACCORDING TO PADRON, WHEN RAUL CHIBAS RIBAS LEARNED OF
CISNEROS RESIGNATION, CHIBAS ALSO RESIGKED, ‘CISNEROS ALLEGEDLY TOLD

<700 =n
S700 =n

‘Thm wstortal commits Reformation afecting the Metional Defense of Che Caited Graces wimtin the seantas of the Meacosge Laws,
5 8 TC Soon Ted and TH the tranemarm oF reeeiaticn of Witch i coy meaner We as coethocwed permet proniviied by

" Suamt/em) A ARET/ACD NAVY AM ACS “SECDEF Hes tC MUSA OC Oe OCR OO
oft afer 2 Fer ihes — tecasuay

Dies SS EBS: conv BEE

nee ee re emer mon

vo.
oer



1
1
pares

—
Ee] mm e7y
: ME@NPrDENTIAT 7s mocere- 315/05 ‘raon, 2

Ara it & 32M 5 He
PADRON THAT MANUEL VARELA CASTRO WOULD SUBMIT HIS RESIGNATION SHORTLY.

i
| 3. PADRON ASSERTED THAT THE RESIGNATIONS FROM JURE ERE
! MOTIVATED BY THE FACT THAT RAY FAILED TO KEEP HIS PROMISE TO BE

IN CUBA BY 26 MAY 64.

“ q, (F1ELD COMMENT: ANOTHER SOURCE-WHO HAS REPORTED ACCURATELY
FOR HORE THAN A YEAR ON EXILE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL
4 REPORTED THAT CISNEROS RESIGNED ON 22 AUG BECAUSE HE REALIZED
i THAT CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZAT ICH WERE DISSATISFIED WITH HIS
i LEADERSHIP.) :

CHNCSO, CINCLANT.

i 5. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI/ (ALSO SENT SAN JUAN.)

