oD ANAAN
Vow ast 10107} [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

by Co c

SECRET

23 April 1996

Memo for Record

Subject: Addendum to ARRB Letter to DCI dated 2 April. 1996
re ARRB determination from meeting of 18-19 March~

Reference: Phone call (23 April 96) from Mary McAuliffe ,|

1. At their 16-17 meeting, the ARRB voted to reconsider
the documents listed below (from the 18-19 meeting) and .
accepted the. proposed Agency position. 7 7

a. Protect name @Bill Arnat”/in the following documents

104-10001-10015
104-10003-10100
104-10005-10059
104-10005-10169
104-10005-10182
104-10021-10093

b. Replace Chief of Station”) with “CIA employee” or

“CIA station” (see example) :

104-10003-10064

J. Barry Harrelson

SECRET



13-00000

Mr. J. Lee Rankin, “¢
Presidant's Comission on the =
Aasessination of President Kennedy

MEMORANDUM FOR?

oRA- SUBJECT: ° Discussion Between Chairman Khrushchev and
: . : Mr, Drew Pearson re Lee Harvey Oewald ~ Me«ve”

Wereen Co mmbveion. :
le This will amplify wy, felephonio srenarks to you 25
‘during which I informed you. that Mr i ‘Mrs. Drew Pearson ‘had
had a LS-minute conversation in Cairo on 2h May with Chairman
Khrushchev.

2. tas ctalemployee | in Cairy hes reported a can-

_ versation which he and his wire held with Mr. and Mra. Drew

Pearson in Cairo on 2h and 25 Maye Mrs. Pearson is a cousin
of the wife of [rhe CIA Cwployee| Hothing in the esbla
quoted belew anouia be construsa as obviating any desirability
the Commission may feel about securing testimony directly from
Mr..and Hre,Pearson., We arevforwarding’it.to you solely for.
the porpose of placing in your hands at the earliest moment
dnformation which bas been provided to us in this privileged
fashion.

_ cdot message tros[ the Shatin mee Cairo reads

“Mrs. Drew Pearson provided on the evening of
2h Hay the first informtion on the Osweld portion
of the conversation with Chairman and Mrs. Khrushchev.

Mra, Khrushchev opened the conversation by inquiring i
about Hre. Kennedy and expressing concern about and & 7
affection for har. Mrse Pearson reassured her, saying JO

that Mee. Nennedy had borne up remerkably well and was
in good health. (Most of this conversation was in .
English which Mrs. Khrushchev speaks fairly well, with
some assistance fram Kirushchey! interpreter, who had

served in the past as interpreter for the Pearsons
and who helped arrange the meeting.) This led into
Mra. Nhrushcher' inquiry about their wotual friend,
the wife of Chief Justice Warren, and thence into

“yor BperTIG CobA oF FpTe

: PEGA roo are ey

Lou =)COo3 -\o

