# 104-10074-10299

## Page 1

AAAAC

1104-10074-10299

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

агу 196і

MEMORAND UM FOR TE PRASCORD

FROM F8 Sa. Lawrenco Fir Barker

SUBJECT O

Meeting wIta/LTTAMIL-9, 30 Jan 1961

HMMA: 23018

none of his usual depression.

2. 1 L-9 reported or

the fallwing:

On Saturday 18 Jan at the usual Enbassy. staff nesting, severa

nox assignments were passed out A "throe month plant was

amounced and during this period staft members, in addition

to their ural dutiesy will prepare special reports on severa

05i2t

toples. Rau APARICIO willido a reporti on the National University.

phystcal plant,student body, activities, ways in which the Caban

government can exert influence,setcal- will do a sintlar report

on the National Institute of fine Arts (Bellas Artes) D Dra. A

MACHADO Mille do a report on countries tich have diplomatio ro

Intions vith Cuba emphasizing: hou contact with representative

hero in Herdeo of such countries may be parlayed into sonething r

013 Lamore vorthuhtle for the Castro government. Rogello RODRIGUSZ: sas

given an assignment as Political Reporting Officer osama

At this meeting, Guillerno RUl of. the Comercial Offica a who has

18.603%

recently been energing as a fanatical Fidelista - apoke out about

"the recent accord between the ISSR and Cuba, saying that it was

convenient for the USSR to keep on the good side of Cuba and thus

Arras, somerhat taken aback by RUIZ! language, pointed out that the

relationship-between the USh and Cuba Is based, above all, on thei

highest priaciples of international friendship.

is -sinitiy

ody ats doing.

Part wall

box

Last Wednesday. (29 Jan) a Sovist official, Boris To RUDENO, visited

the Cultural Department and spoke with APARICIO anaL-t.

2-9 took.

pains to "be a good Communist" during this encounter. (Inta con- ni

versation was picked. up by MITRAP) RUDENKO was also at the hono aí

Horacio FLOPES Sanchoz on the 28th after the Marti bonage 8083109.

at the Caban Cultural institute.

A Bolitian vonan - name possibly VILLALBA - Has recently at tha

TRAVELSO

3743

FLiGA

Hotal Oxford with ? children,

waiting to go to cuba to jode her

husband who worke there. L-believes she has gone on to Caba.

do

On 17 January Cuban delogates to the CEPAL Conference visitad-the

Embassy and spoke with Embassy employees. One of theso delogates,

referring to the Nicaro glant in Cuba, said that only 12 enginecrs

of the orizinal 37 remained.

0f trese, a man named (fAu) PRESILIA

was still doing an excellent job although he 1s physically la poor

condition. The Nicaro plant specifically,

and technicians throughout

Cuba in general, are having a hard tine with the decimal syster usad

by the USSR in its technical equipment.: The delegates said that

SECRET

201-29/531

1/24

#10489

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRE

(0тa) CouT,

Inchi

astegut tald APIRI

other day thats60 homoserals had been

the Babassy the

cleaned out Of MiRE

185440

was from LIc. DIAZ Ordas: ONCDPCION said, "I saw It idth w

ova eyes, tho envolope: bad DIAZ Ordas! passe on 1t. "as

On 29. Jan a Venesuelan woman raried Susana BE-JARANO cano to the

Embasoy. Sao was staying at the Hotel VIrreyes, Room 102. She

was toying to sell exhibition rights to a Miln entitlod "Tidst

Trinen" which hed been flined in Venezuela and shown only trice

before, the goverrment bout it dom. and prohibited future shordngs,

labelling the trin as of improper vocial tendencipa " BEJARANO re

asid, that aho plamiod to

stay in H

conca, about a....

wook, and would alac

contact the 5o

Sariet and Crech, Inbas:

attort to sell the

1O0FSN

P.8i82

р133

1808

been

100

of people sh

APARICIO, Gasto

MILO, Ernesto MEJ

Gomes lina

29

28 бал

• big suce

not vant to go lor sone reason unknown to In9, Whilo at FLORES

p1a0o, I'saw that Raul PEREIRA "Rau?1to" soonod Very Intereste

9 director of the ten de stadio locat at to sarat

onor O1 Stea Loons; Lomas: Bartilaco.

1 1362

"Rogello dossn't seca to trust nio.!"

1. 320 F

Kareer

The Bragdilan-Polish Engineer I»9 not, at the airport has gone o

to Caba, Indg man (BETIDE) is "verT correct, doed not any trach

8er{00s."

After Teresa PROJAZA vas seen off at the airport, Oscar CONCEPCION

"revealed*

tbat sho hal been fired on orders of President DORTICOS

no got tliad af receiving reporte that a famous Intersational. :

sex deviate (lanora "tortillera" Interracional) was voridag at the

BabRady• DORTICOS fIred her for "imiaral conduct."

RS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

183)

i 90

18180

18360

Brazi

0 LE

Astle

her aper

Lettor darassed to DORTICOS Meresa

1-9 about this but

warned him not to tell anyone A PARIOLO

137a, close Irtend ot

On Wednesday end Thursday (29 and 30 la) URBIELA an aploye

of the Commercial Section, was grumbling so out tha-"idds" wbo

supposedly work there — RUIZ, CONCEPCION, and GARCIA - but:

who can't seem. to get anything dose and only succood li reas1a

up paper. URBIDIA vas gilts disgustad.

politically in staff meetings.:

partisan of the Castro, regine:

MIRABAT, has been Less.

aggressive than before,

has recently bee

down in the durps and has been spending a lot of tina tallong

to Dra. MACHADO. The Ambassador Lold

Dra. MACHADO that MIRABAL

and Mexican food denit get along together.

Felipe ROJAS, Ledcan employec of the Cultural Section,

Mino

handles distribution of Castro propaganda to people who vialt the

Embasay

bas been given a deals in the Cultural Section. Iog-*

only carns about: 5 600 pesos per month. L-9 SAYS: THAT ROJAS!.

DO ULD BE BOUGHT * IS AVAILABLES RO ist about 28-30 years old

at SOLOZAND bas retumed fras Cube. Thero ls some talk tha

she idght mary Jesus SOTO, In Cubr, although she is nuch olde

SoTo 1s some Sort of leader de perhaps a labor leador thereo

On Sunday 26 Jan a group of Chinese acrobats pald & courtesy.

visit to the Enbassy., The leader of this group said that Senator

On Monday 27 Jan DOlOres DE LATIORA was at the Babassy.

She said

82810

CUBAN

NAI

HA.1

that DIAZ Ordasjand Ambassador HERNANDEZ: Amas are great Irfanda

and that she had seen an envelope which DIAZ Ordas sent to the

Ambo She appaared to be quite upset that Victor RICO Galas had

been latited to Cuba but that she had not. She wants to iator-lo

Fidel CASTRO againe HEDGES: 19 an AmerIcan a1tIzen, 11V08814 N

nsurgentes sun 124, jit i0: 23-41-541 009 daugaters Ma, 1'9503

in Anerican: naned Fred: BALDASARE, a sinning champion, bas bee

in the Embassy trying to Implenent his plan to swin fron Cuba to

Florida and set a ner world record. APARICIO remarked to L'9

that If they lot this nut trais a Cuban to make this swin (as ho

vants to do) 1t vould probably result in thousands of cabars doin

the same thing to get out. (LIENYOI and MAIRAP havo picked i

BAT DASARE) •

Some youngsters from a group celled the

"Movimiento Cultura)

Moodicano" have been trying to establish good contacts wita uni

Embassy.

Ices resident Is Rael Acrill, phone 21-17-63

Jose nOYAl, phone 23-24-39. The

, address avarde

They had

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

oxtent of thel love lor the Cuban people." L-9 does not

now much about: thts group, feels it bears arestigating

3. I asked B to get him a: book about the paintor Aranslo CORKT, This

book is published by the thithey Musan of Anerican irt, The Macmillas: Compenys

Now Jork, 1957. It will be ordered from EQS separately.

La The seeting had to be outi short, since B.rad, to go elsenhero to noet and

338080 an agent prospoct ho was plaming to leave Medico City the net noraing.

Accordingly, It was agrood that anothes neeting vouldf be bald on Tuesday Lifebraa

st 2000 at tha safe apartuent. LIl will be paid his January, salary at that. tiro.

he F Bavo

---

