# 104-10256-10273

## Page 1

104-10256-10273

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6 July 1972

Tal

3,4.

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

The Acting Director

Fedoral Bureau of Investigation

:

Information Provided the Federal Bureau

of Investigation Pegarding the Watergate

Incident

like

1.

AS a

result of our conversation of 5 July, I would

to sunmarize the intormation waich has been provided to

you by the Agency

in mencrandun torn (attention "I. Arnold

Parian since the

first

series of menoranda on the subject

beginning 20 Jure.

2.

Or 20 June separate nemorandums were sent to you

concerning Messrs. Frank: Anthony Sturgis, Eugenio Rolando

Martinez

Carcaga.

Bernard 1. Parker and Virgilio Conzales.

The papers detailed available infornation on the subjects.

We said

that Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis had never been re-

cruited by the

Agency,

that he was a soldier of fortune but

that he

had been

associated with an Agency contact, tir.

Eugenio Polando Martinez Careaga, since the early

sixties.

Their rolationship vas built on a mutual intorost in Cuban

exile activities.

"ir. Martincz was Iccruited in January 1961

and has perforned a variety of tasks for the Ageacy on Cubar

matters up until June of this year. He has becn on a $100.00

a month retainer since 1969.

Hr. Martinez is a business

associate of Hi. Bernard Barker in a real estate firm-in Mini.

AT. Barker has a

regular contact of the Federal Eureau of

Investigation in Cuba when turned over to the Agency in mid-.

1959.

He was used as a source of information in Cuba until

evacuated in carly 1960.

He was hired by the Agency in 1960

for work among exile groups and has terminated by the Agency

on 31 July 1966.

No Agency contact has been maintained with

him since that date.

A thorough investigation of our files:

at Headquarters and by our Station in Miani has failed to

turn up any infornation regarding Mr. Gonzales' connection.

with any Agency personnel or Agency-sponsored activities.

.. 7

Hailet

HO: 9307025

AND METHODS HANGINES

ReNT F20 18:18

5(1), (2), (0) er (9) 101536335

---

## Page 2

4-00000

3.

In two menoranda on 21 June ve informed you of our

relationship with tie Robert R. Jullen Company and the

Gencral Foods Corporation.

The utilization of the Robert R.

Mullen Company dates back to June 1963.

"r. sullen has

provided certain sensitive cover support overseas for Agency

caployees.

was involved in the

formation of

The dutin teedom denteeny an activity

terminated several years ago.

15 of 1 day 1970 Mr. Everette

Howard Hunt, who hau just retired from the agency,

vecane a

legitinate employee of MI. Muller.

In July 1971 Mr. lunt

informed the Agency he had bech assigned to the White liouse

Staff but continued to devote part of his time to the Mullen

Company. The General Foods Corporation is a client of the

Mullen Company.

over the yoars sixteen

officials of Coneral Foods have been cleared on certain aspects

of our interests.

They have not been informed of our use of

the Robert R. 'lullen Company. Also on 21 June, in response to

a verbal roquest.of 20 June, ve inforned you that a check of our

records disclosed no record

of agency involvement witl the

Association of National Advertisers or the words "CIr"

Collar

4. In a separate memorandum on 21 June we advised you

that a

review of the duties and

assignments of tir. James

NeCord provided no indication that he was involved in Curan

matters and that he was not assigned to the Bay of Pigs

operation.

se stated, horever, that he night have developed

personal acquaintances which are not recorded in officiai

personnel

and

security records. He have no information

regarding

¡it. McCord's activitios with Cuban exiles since his

retirement. -we indicated in the same menorandun that as ab.

agency employee, dr. lunt was involved in operational activities

relating to Latin American countries and vas known to have nas

some ties to Mir. Barker.

In a separate memorandus of 27 June

we inforned you about the issuance of tro

Edward V. Hanilton, to Mr. Hunt on 30 September 1960.

This

alias was subsequently used by tit. munt Iot severa

drivers licenses.

ve provided additional inforration or

this subject in a menorandun of 5 July and also reported that

there is no information in our filos to the effect that hir.

Hunt was issued a Social Security Card or Insurance Policy

bearing the name Edrard J. or Edward Josoph Hamilton.

:0=910

Lunch

---

## Page 3

14-00000

5.

Further, a menorandim vas sent to you on 27 June

regarding peripheral Agency contact with an ex-employce

of

"r. James

Mccord, one tir. Juan Rigoberto Ruiz Villegas.

Nir.

Ruiz was used by this Agency

aS

a translator during the

period June 1969 to June 1971.

He has had no affiliation

with the Agency since that tine other than

a personal

relationship with a

current Agoncy ciployee.

One additional

memorandum was provided you on 5 July regarding a Mr. Poss

Ward Lambert who worked for

the Agency as

a Contract Employee

from January 1965 until his retirement on ! August 1971.

Office of Personnol referrod tr. Lanbert to ccord Associates

for employnent upon

retirerent.

He submitted a formal

application but decided to accept employment elserhere.

0.

In addition to the above cited menoranda and several

lesser

items of information provided tclephonically to ir.

Arnold L. Parhan of your Alexandria office, the Director of

Central Intelligence informed you orally on 21 June regardin!

as the Banco Intornacional of sexico City. In short, Mir.

lianiel Ogarrio Daguerre has not nad

any operational contacts

with this Agency.

On 28 Juno tie Director of Central

Intelligence also inforned you orally rcarding our intormation

concerning do. Kenneth nutty danloces.

The last recorded

contact of the Agency with ir. Dahlborg was in lay 1961.

7. Our Office of Security is in frequent contact with

members of your staff in connection wit!: the investigations

you are conducting.

Tho above information is for your use

only and should not be dissominated outside your Burcau..

Vernon A. Walters

Lieutenant General U.S.A.

Acting Director

• '

---

