4 105-1027! 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSA‘ ATI ACT OF 1992
\SSINATION RECORDS

14-0000.

}04-10105-10278 {2022 RI

that time raised questions as to Bretton's
Political Sympathies. Consequently, Bretton wus security dis-
approved in August 1945 for transfer to Oss.

Bretton was informed in 1945 that he would not be hired by
OSS because “Washington Security would not approve his employment."
Bretton reportedly was "distressed" by this decision. In December
1945, when Bretton returned to the U.S., he Personally called at
the Security Office and stated he was aware he had been disapproved
and requested the reason thereof. He was told there were no
openings...

In addition, according to a memorandum in Bretton's file
dated 19 November 1945 £ i i i

Security Branch in Washington failed to pass him. According to
this memorandum, when Bretton was told the Unit could not employ
him, Bretton was very much upset. The memorandum indicated

that Bretton had earned the high regard of the officers immediately
concerned for some tentative work Bretton had done for the Unit.

In April 1949 Bretton was still evidencing concern for being
dismissed from SSU. Bretton was given a statement that the
Adjutant General had no information that the circumstances of
his honorable discharge from the service might in any way be
considered derogatory. .

In July 1956, Bretton was of interest to the Domestic
Collection Division as a potential source of foreign intelligence
information, In connection with this interes » National Agency

Name Check was conducted on Bretton at Army Intelligence. The

OS 5 0021/A
WO 3
tse Oty ~
09 Not Reproduce i



records of Army Intelli

16 November 1955 wh

had made complaints >

his Congressman, with regard to a

tion conducted on him. ged that the Government
investigators had given information to his political opponents
concerning his (Bretton's) Party politics and information 7
concerning his marital status, Subsequent inquiry by the ‘Army
failed to indicate misconduct on the Part of its investigators.

(Another name check on Bretton in August 1963
of the files of the Counter Intelligence Records
Facility, Army Intelligerice: Center, disclosed that
preeton was investigated in

favorable to Bretton. The CIC records also stated that
Bretton at the time was being investigated in connection
with his application for a Reserve Commission. )

. Based on Past (1945) unresolved questions regarding Bretton's
political orientation, Bretton was security disapproved in

September 1961 as a Personnel Placement Division Lead Source.

The Domestic Collection Division had an interest in Bretton
in May 1963 in connection with a trip Bretton was taking to
Nigeria and other parts of Africa. An AD HOC Secret or Confidential
clearance was denied Bretton. ‘ :

In April 1964 the Africa Division, advised that Bretton was
going to Ghana as an instructor and pha inquired
regarding Bretton's use. sentative of the Africa Division

ivisi informed him
Central Intelligence
Agency to them and because of recent events in Ghana (i.e.,
expulsion of 11S instructors) the Africa Division was going to
alert | Ito Stay completely away from Bretton.

