|o4-10186-10078) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

ome

RTAEEN FOR MARION?
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This reatertal ccotaine Information alerting the National Defense of tne "Volted Suavee within the meanme of the Faplodage Laws,
1h UBC Bera TH 20d TH the Uaneniteion oF fereletion af which tm any manner te Aa woeuibarwed Ferwe ta pronibiied Dy

SECRET
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CountayCuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00618-65,

sussect fnu PENA (alias “Lorenzo") ATE DISTR. 10 February 1965
NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES, CS-311/0011 5-64
(page 9) Gn
panioe 8 July 1964)
Info, 1964 a RETURN TO CIA
pace a Washington, D.C. 5 Background Use Ont
Reproduce

bare ac, January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO. .
Twis 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE © is
source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following repott is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency,

Fnu PENA, alias “Lorenzo,” in 1962, was head of the MA
(Intelligence) Department of the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) which was later
divided into three separate departments: Centros Legales
(Legal Centers - MS); Ilegal (Illegal); and Liberacion Nacional
(National Liberation - LN). He was later a trainee in the LN,
Guatemalan Bureau. In early 1963 he was sent to Mexico for '
several months, Upon his return he spent some time at the DGI
Headquarters, not in an operational section, and was later
transferred to the Ministry of Interior.1

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on fnu PENA.

$
4
SRT 3
SECRET tron
NO FOREIGN DISSEN ss 1
sae Tom Tamer _Twawr___T an Tea xX eT pr 2
"WEB CIN@LANT —CINCSO_# TENS aie
Tite, Fahd doanbation indicted ri ri

YT LX 2354; Lx 183:
sLAiA 19020( 908864)
+—-KO PROJECT (AMMUG/ 1)
1 c$C1-31

se"

rout xO men ere caeviane enews
