# 104-10185-10224

## Page 1

10000

104-10185-10224,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Roproduce

AUURN

REIARO

MNAORA

RORAH

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

DLA MASETIAI MODDALDA IATOrMALiOR APACFIDA tiA NALIORAl DelADIA dl the ÚDiiAa SrALEs MilhLa :s9 Iraaioe l tha lapianego Lama 1iI

a iDS dod tAL lDe trauemlados or Mereialon of Malca la any MiADRT lO ll UDAUlDOrLENd DeTACA le prabibiLed by LaI

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

•SUNJECT. Draco or Draque ESCALANTE

REPORT NO.

• DATE DISTR.

CSCI-316/00255-64

20 Julÿ 1964

1

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. Iuls 1964:

FIELD REPORT NO.

PETIS E UNEVAIUATED INFORMATTON. SOUÊCE GRAOINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1.

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Draco or, DraquefESCALANTE, pseudonym *Ciro, " is an officer of

the Direccion General de Irteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of

(ntelligence) stationed in Cuba. 1

Headquarters Comment.

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information on

ESCALANTE.

-5

4

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GN+

4

3

3 PV

cdtsad toe

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

I NAW

RER CACLANT

(Note: fiail distribution indicared by "#".)

AtR

CINCSO 7

NSA

I&NS

EBL2

INFORMATIONPRERORI

TH SA EOS T WE S,R

CI LIA

FH SA NOBI NEMADRE CL R&A

MINFORMATIONARERORT

V

TTE. CANADA

LX- 1580 1240

BLPRITER

NO PROJECT

(AMMUG-1)

---

