# 104-10181-10198

## Page 1

104-10181-10198

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

201-512966

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SBCRBI

ROUTING

ORs. P. MAOGIO

UNIT

EXT : 61,71

1736

DATE. 10 SEPTEKBER 1962

SRI DELON

ї...:

FiON: ENSCOOT CERAL INTELLIC

GENCE AGENCY 2

CONF,

INFO:

TFW 10

DDP; C1, C|/OPS, S/C ?

TO

OPIX

6'2

01552

DANIS CEN

ROUTINE

nu 75022

CITE DiR

ITION

SECUREN)

TENTIONs

DEP

TIONS RONT

DEARST TIE ATTORCE, ANTATION OST, INSPECTOR ODISPAL

SUBSTE POOSTILE DOGNISIT STUCE AT MARAN, CUBA BY ALPRA: 66 ORCIAIZATION

•1. REFERENCE IS MADE TO THIS AGENCI'S TELSTIPS MISSIOS; OUT 74606, DATED

9 SEPTEMBER 1962, SUBBET AS ABOVE.

2. THE SAME SOURCE OR TER INPORLATION CONTAINED IN THE ABOVE REFERENGED

TELETYPE REPORTED ON 10 SEPTABER THAT THE ALPHA 66 STRIKE AT HABANA WAS EXPECTED

AT 0200 HOURS: B.S.I. ON 10 SEPTEHBER BUT IT DELATED FOR ANY REASON IT WOULD BE

MADE AT 0200 HOURS ON 11 SEPTEMBER.

3O SAME SOURCE PARAGRAPH 2 ABOVE REPORTS THAT ANTONIO YECIANA BLANCE, POSIPONED

HIS DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI, FLORIDA, FOR PURITO RICO UNTIL II SEPTIMER.

L. ACCORDING SO SOURCE, THE BOUT CREW IS COMPOSED OF TIVE MEN AND THE ANAMBIT

INCIDES ONB RIFLS -57 (ANTI-TART TIPE). TES BOAT IS HIDINO AMOND THE KEIS NEAR

CUBA AND HAS NO RADIO, YECIANS ONLY SOURCE OF NES WILI BE ANY CUBAN RADIO

ANNOUNCEMENT. VECIANA HAS HAD NO STREP DURIKO THE PAST 48 HOURS DUE TO HIS

LISTENING FOR NEHS AND MAKING. CONTAGIS IN PREPARATION FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS.

5. AS ADDITION, INFORMATION CONCERNING THIS ACFIVITIES OF THE ALPHA 66

ORGANIZATION AND ITS MENBERS IS BBABAYER "ET HIS AGENCY, LEGUIL, BE PROMPTIN FORMARDED

RELEASING OSPICER

OFFICER

13091.

::¡' REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

ORiG

UNIT

EXT

DATE

то ..

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO 1

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

SBOBBI

8-868

ROUTING

86F: Fine franck o1h.

16:.

PA. Qin

Sicialuie

TWO"

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 75022

'INFO:

CITE DIR

TO NUTRESSES, THIS ACCI HILL APFRECIATE RECEIPT OF ANY DIFORMATION DEVZLOPED ST

DOR

ESSEES ON THS ABOVS SUBJECT.

8. IIS ABOVE DVOCUTION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO TEB INLICRATION AND

NATURAZIZATION SERVICE, TO THE BURBAU OF CUSTOMS, AND TO THE BUREAU Of INTERNATIONAL

PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTIST OF COMMERCE.

END CE MESSAGE

INFO BASEO ONS HAVE 84LO (IN 19771) 10 SEPT 62

SOURCE: AMSKIN-1

Lint Q. 2123.

By Direction

of Jane Rosan

COOBOIMATING OFFICE

tatod а in

87U8I/1N1TSO9*

SECREI

÷559

"EM: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

UTHENTICATIMI

Copy Ho.

..............

---

