# 104-10186-10054

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10054

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUNFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT "Beltran" (an allas)

•SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEY

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00801-65

17 February 1965

CS-311/00115-64

(page 11)

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

8 July 196 RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

Background Use Only

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORKATION SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEFINITIVL: APPRAISA OR CONTÉNT IS TENTATIVE

Do Not Reproduce

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series c intaining personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of.

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Beltran" is a photographer in the Laboratorio Fotogralico

(Photographic Laboratory - LF) of the MI Department (Department

of Technical Operational Support) in the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence • Dol).

"Beltran," a negro, was born between 1930 and 1935. He

is five feet

seven

inches tall, weighs between 145 and 150 pounds,

and has a slender build. He Is described as being very effeminate. I:

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identirtable information

5

4

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

STATE

ARMY

1 AiR

INSA

I ocR

REP

CINCLANT

CINCSO F TENS

Noto: Field dist turian indicated by "f")

INFORMATION REPORT #INFORMATION REPORT

FIL SLEOS.1| NE/S/R

WUESCANADAL

LX 2•120

AHIST MOS'L HE MADRI

LE JEBRILLSIR

YO PROJECT (ANJUG

{1)

24-2

CSCI-316/00801-65

RID/AY

ATLALLE

TOrALAH/S! S

(1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

sia180n

CI/REX

:LD: Spik

4gl

---

