# 104-10186-10292

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10186-10292

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION RERORT HINFORMATIONEREP

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

L LAL: JOR TAS NAd TAÉ IDO UTANTAMANLA Or TeTPiALIA Ol MDIA IN ANY MADUTE LI AS MRAULANTLEMI MATTER LA PETMIDICAS DE LAI

SECRET

IN DONELGY DISSEL

cOuNTEr cuba

SUBECT MIguel ROA

REPOrT NO

DATE DISTR

esC: 11/00251-64

20 Jul. 1901

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE Of

INFO

1959

to

1964°

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

Nash n56gn, D.C.

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION SOURE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SOURCE

former Cuban IS officer lu

served ladi die Culan

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Connents:

The following report li one of a series containing

personality

intoinerton proviced of the sourie and

includes supplemenial information fior the recoris of

this Agency.

It is requested shit the addressces lide no action ou ani

of the individuals

mentioned in the

feisonality reports

without first checking wath this ageney.

1.

Miguel ROA 15 an vificer in the Dirticion General die

-General Directo.ree

of intelligence)

and has been stationed

in sexico loi proddoly toie thon

in serico.

for cover priposes, he holi's the

position of Press Arrache, this

cores uncer the Ministr.

of foreign delations.

He has visited labana and then

there, visits the office buslding there the Liberacion

Nacional (LN. National Liberation) section of die DG!

is located.

las also rasited lancel PINLIKO at lis

office apartment.

2.

Prior to being assigned to the Dol and to the sinist:

of Foreign Relations, Rot his a first lacutenant in

the National Police in 1959 to 196.).

3

2

STAY

I DIA

! ARUY

KEP CINCLANE

Not tinie dietribution indicatod by "E")

INFORMATION

WE SA EOS: 4 WE/5/0

108

SECE.

NO FOREIGI DISSEY

CSO = IS

INSA

'1:

REBORT

CITR

CINE

RID AL

CASADN

-Tartin

i OCR

1 FBI 2

TION REPORT

LX- 1594

TO PROJECT

AN310G..1

ICSCI-216/00251-04

COOTDIMATING

THH/1!

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-e00U11 21-1

3. ROd was born abost 1925, as flue feet seven inchas tall, welghs 1ir

punds, hans laushy blond hair,

whute saln, i red faer and a thin nose.

ROd 15 il friend al Manuel VEGA, pseudonym "¡LARCOS. " 1

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no identiflable information on

ROA.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

