"}o4-10477-10103) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |» * «:
: To Pe Tag

(2) UNCLASSHFIFO | 7] UREFRNAL (7 COMFIOFY TIAL CY seceer

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBIECT. jOpuenait

fiom “Tio
WH-~3/Carib

TO. (Ofer daugioton, room number, end
bldg)

COMMENTS (Number och comment
1 whom. Drow

re ene
WH-3/Garib/PP
au

geacneyrmare| et Ol) e Ooeess
[rae | st iim ws
Sh.

— :
fe. O10 case" (G-Secret EC] CONFIDENTIAL CJ) (RRMA) uncuassteten

WBE


‘SELRSE:

1? Saptanber 1753

4B ‘ORANDIML FOR 2 Chiof, Coutract Persusiad Division
: Atte ition. ‘én. recuor) OD

FROL 1 Chiof, finstemn Heatephere :4vtsLon

SBJCT 3 Amendment To Contract of Michael Ye CHADSY

1. It is hereby requested that the contract of ichael
M. CHOADEN be azendad to provide that he be cozpensated 4n an azount
calculated at the rate of $13,000. per aanin while travellin:; oute
sids Cuba at the. request of the United States Governasnt and en=
d full tias in tha work of tha lintted States Government. It
is further requested that while so trevullin. outside Cuba, CHO:DEN
be vaid per died at tha standard United States Governnont rata for
the area of travel or terorary residence,

2. GHOADEN nosseases cortain srecialized rrofeasionl
skilla which are in temporary, but urx nt denand in a country
(other than Cuba) within tha Jurisdiction of tha festar ifeatsshere
Division, the contract amandnont outlined in para:
is being requ: sted so as to previde a seans by Ww
skills tight be sade avatlable to neat this current 1

, | Je Ce nING
Chief, Wiastern Hentsphore tiviston

Rekey

A eu rT

vee
