# 104-10175-10123

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10175-10123

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

WIFE FLED IN:

ROUTHiG AND RECORD SHEET

STEUCTIONS

PE'OR TO FLINS

1.

it sa Sect

2. on Esci Delach back flap

dad farward to RID

2

Des!: 1 ison: sore: steel, unless is records

you::sal actor isen or comments sequit-

"Is preservation

FROM.

IO: ACTION EKANCH

Il he no and itle shows are sir.uper,

insert proger lie =s belor and insuard

documen: to RiD AN

PROPERTIER.O

RID /

911.5

IF;

TO. ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IS SECTICA I ONBETA IFSEOPRIATE

CONNESTS

C7-269

G.:30

Just GrY

CATE

AEF.E PEO

TOGARASAD

? 2 JUN 13?2

Soluti:

Das 03

5.

WH/ 55

Hed Sullivan of

bot securites

-

10.

Joki'D

x6924

with oslosso cies/ass.

taliste

12.

15.

16.

87.

ju486

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ASSTRACT

FILE TITLE

ALE DUNHER IONGAGTESSE

• 201.503003973

3: 18..72

тикт

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

BIFCATON

SECRET

VESIESING ATION

xx

1O ANTIC END

¡ONES OL'ALETED RESE

сАю.

F2018

76-3

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Request for Advice on Industrial and Plant Security: Protection

& Against Terrorist and Bonbing Attacks

ACTION RECURES- I FLIES

You will remember that we were able to provide some

advice on precautions against kidnapping to key members of the

merican Chamber of Commerce which resulted in expigssions of.

gratitude fron those who knew the source.

See ALU7 41, 286 o

16 lovember 1971.) Now, {KDACETONE-1 tells me, the police oi the

Distrito Federal have increased patrol activities around sone

u.s. firms,

on the basis of supposed information that, there are

threats against these firms or that someone plans to

"do sonething"

Layict da-t 2=0=ad mo a panohlet picked up during.

he demonstration on 17 May of which I attach a copy.

see from this why the businessmen might be disturbed: the anti-

U.S.-business theme is secondary, in my opinion, and so I told

•AKUUCETONE-1, to the opposition's primary target, the GON. Also,

I told him, we have no recent or speci:ic information of any

group's planning anything against U.S. firms. (Ke shall check

wIthIK@GLACIER-5 to see if he has anything.)

2. DACETUNE-l asked me if we had anything on plant pro-

tection which he could ciïculaic to

the membership in the same

way he did our other production.

This would be a pamphlet or a

series of suggestions as to hos a store or factory or office

could take precautions against bomb throwing, boub planting,

incendiaries, and the like.

That is, it need not deal with

other aspects of security agaiust theft and burglarly but with

Tupanaro-style attacks against facilities.

He don't have REy-

thing of the sort

on hand here and we don't have anyone locally

expert in this.

It seems to us the sort of thing which wOBOSE

might be able

to produce or to get from soneone such as the few.

Tork City Police.

You probably have better ideas.

If you

send

a study,

let us know what security might be involved:

MACETONE-i took my composition and used it literally.

02"

Attachment:

As stated b/w

Distribution:

- Chief, WHD w/att

CROSS REFEREEI TO

Defer

SHANL-41987

22

CASSANN

SECRET

cAn

26 May 1972

HOS PER M-1A3E7

-201-030999 231

loRs

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICH

SECRET

DISPATCH STREAL AND NUMBER

(HIMA, 41987

22

3. I always feel a bit defensive about these requests:

the easy way would be to tell then to go take care of this

themselves.

It still seens to me that we can earn or keep

some good

will this way as well as actually helping, perhaps,

to prevent unpleasantness.

I hope you can do this without too

much trouble but I do think it is worth some.

group much appreciated their lunch with you early this nonth

help out the Station's work.

16-3

irid

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLABSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

2es

---

## Page 4

AL PUEBO DE ENT

-ilo vicür.

[obierno portain

terriblro an'":-

milito du

"rinits,

05 IC3

12200.s43 Cora

-citido a ir-zar..

'.

"--.

',=+

:.:.

Даз стесей ? де сі месел

-tro susclo 1111401n0500i'

tie

Ter darle

21.:

cuando el furti: tramado. o bec tr:

-dos perseguidri: ricinados.

1s, 3000 d

-ÂaS 518 2092245

tilsar

cor tecner anorá vencerá dando

ili tilde 100

177 H00617 WE!

5014.1.1:

30 177.00;

-eca

trito r

Comité -ror..:w'

*!.

h/wATT I to (11717) -41957

22

CS COPY

IRS

---

