# 104-10172-10272

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10172-10272

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992M TO CIA

Background Use Only

De Not Reproduce

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:

RID

FENLAN

ROOM

NO.

DATE

TO

WE/.

ORFICERS

DOCUMENT NIMALS

TONA 02872

DOCUMENT DAIT

22

COMMENTS

NOTE 8l a Copy or erechonanta ena resporad trava lso e

racher darerance anta lie donatina ol tse ropy dadior attach-

sard DarRos, & E'S RETORD COPT La to SA rotaled l

to sine el sta Dret, call dha Cratel Elbo Stratora dor po

sonal fors

CHRONO - DETACHED

Guy sent to appeti

≤

LUF-I/CE

8.

SK /CA

FUCHBEN

03

25 CS5

88.

12

FILE TITLE

Sat.off.rep.inFiNLAND

¡LE NUMBEF

23

2250

INÉ-OSUNK

RESTRACT

1400L

195 616.

SECRET

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

VIA:

67

•22

DISPATCH NO. _

101-37

33-2 de2.

TO

FROM

cher se see son on 25

DATE: = 14 October 1957

Irito: Chief, sit

stand 3303P - Talk between Grigord COUlD an: VOCIN:]

iction sentinal: fore, for Inforastion only.

Is early ugust 1957, Crigori COWB called on V CCIw/l und arked that

GrecIe/luers ain in alrance if any Sortet africal velo about to be throws

out of Finlsas as persona non crats, and ho

angty menner,

since nhen doos a little diplomat with th low rink of second

secretary presuse thet ho la so powerful as to ranove officials of his oun country

fron Finland.

It you are roally thit polorful, who are you engray and wist are your.

real duties bere in Finland?" This unexpected inster allegedly disturbed CULUs

sufficiently es.t the subjoot mas pursued so furthor.

0z

2. DiSes Cuestion 1a Interestine In vion of the SERilliG operation.

Ya are tryin in sind out the exact dato of the conversation.

3.

GLE tas overtly the function of Consul.

In thät slot he succeeded Ivan

ref novich SalutY, a known llls officer lientified by A pIp :3/19. VACCINE/M01

also said on Li crober that IVAn SHISHKIN, also a lain dIs officor Te.E., V.liUisHLa

case) will ba learing Finland POS in the week of 21-27 Cctober 1957.

This oakes

tho second FIs case officer to leave finland pos in Octoter 1957. COLUE himself

left Finlan riä His funily In early Septenber and has not yet core back.

Ivan VORDErET it with faully on 1 October 1957.

i retaines

13 October 195?

'istribution:

3 - HE

2

2

SR

14-1

'sIntr it "ren:laton

inge

1241-1501560

«0e198, 51-28A

CLASSIFE TONi

---

