'104-10186-10081)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

INEORMATIONSREPORTARENFORMATIONS!
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘To matertal contains taxemacre afecting the Naticoal Defean of the Taited fates within the meaning of the Rgeousgy Lawe Tue
1 OSC See TH and TH the Ceneaimica oF fervmtne ef Which in aay manned (0 am unauthorined perwan We pecaiteted Uy tae,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

counteCuba : : REPORT NO. — CSCI-316."00559-65
sumect Fernando PaSCv'aL Perez CATE oIsTR. «= 9 February 196.
(alias TAlejandro") : ze a

RETURN To CA NO. PAGES 1
und Use Only —_strerences CS-311/00115-64

* Do Not Reproduce (page 7) 8 July 1964

PATE OF 964 : CSCI-316/00270-64
pace 2 Washington, D. C. 20 July 1964
pate acqJanuary 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED IMOBNATION, SOURCE GRADINGS AGE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT & TENTATIVE.

source,A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service uatil April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this agency.

1. Upon further questioning of source concerning additional
information on Fernando PASCUAL Perez, alias "Alejandro," he
stated that PASCUAL was a former member of the Departamento de
Seguridad Gel Estado (Department of State Security - DSE). He
is alleged to be one of the original members of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -
DGI). PASCUAL is a specialist in illegal operations in Salvador
and Panama.

2. PASCUAL was born in about 1940. He is a Caucasian and is
five feet six inches tall, weighs 135 pounds, and has a slender,
build, PASCUAL is fond of cars and women.

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced
reports, this Agency has no additional identifiable information

on PASCUAL.
5
4
: 3
SECRET Se] 2
NO FOREIGN DISSE Loss] 3

‘HATE on a T NAW ma Txsa THX 1 ece TERI 2
REP CINCLANT _CINCSO # _ISNS
‘ote: Ftd dimibvion tndicwnd bv “279
| JLX-1838
UFGA 19020( 24Def64)
i +XO PROJECT (AMMUG 1)

Li ——__—_-C SCL

ata [consent ims : ’

fn/sa Zen. :
[WH /iv AVE — rer
Torus WH/SA 8 (1), #E 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1 bana |

Tae

