10183-10280,

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

WH/EA 64-gg9

Il Bay 1984

MEMORANDUM FOR 1 Chief, Central Cover Staft/M0C
aTtryrios ===: Dan Shea :
SERIE © ¢  Requect fer Cover for AMITSe)

naw 1, Preliminary éiecussions on cover requirerenta
for ME~1 have bal ow WH/8A/CI represoutatives
aud Mr, Bhea end Er, < the Contral Cover Start,
The proposed nonoffieta! cover, “Assectatien Yer Forth and
Eatia-dmerican futerests| PO Box 534, Hain Post Office,
Chteago, Illinois, will bs very satisfsetory. The follow
ing cover iufermation is keyed to the memoranda ontitled
“Boaofficial Cover for Individceal",

4. Geparal Information 6a the Agent

(1) Tes cryptosya of the agent to
be covered 19 AELMO-L Ea bas had a
Frevicas pocadeayn er alian.

(2) as5iUGe1 bes boca engaged under
@ “Eccerardsn of Oral Commitcont™, Ba
recsiveo a enlary ef §309.00 per menth,
plus o furnished apartment as Ais regio
@esce, which can algo be usdd se s safehouso
er traising site. .

(3) A25G01 bee a ROA fm proeeca, cabo
mitted em 1 Kay 1634, and will be ueod as an
egeat in support ef WE/G4/CI operaticns,
particularly the recruitcent or Gefcetion
of Cabaa iatelligoncs porseans] and diplomats.
Bo eopaadeste of Abel aro kaevledgeable
“62 bin CiA or U.8, Goverment oonnacticas,



o2e

. (4) ssm0~1 bas not been exeainod BT
a tho Agency's Hedicol Division to deterpine
Bis fitness fof overseas duty. He will be
gabject to ezanination ‘at the firet svaile

able opportunity.

ete (8) Aem~1 19 scheduled for 0a
fect on 9 Moy 1034. Bo will be
. gives a. peyobologicel eesoscment at th
Firet avatiable opportunity. i Seneeeat

: - ey Alars-1 bse Bot bees andor control
ate ‘of C3A or tho. 0.8. Govermront provicasly.
ae of Cid or lover atery baa not boos roguized
becosse ABSUGe1 is unéor etyict euporvicies
DecSa/aa/cl and ie not axyooed to Porson?
other than Agsscy yoroennel.

{7) aEasa=) is available te samme &
eever states at proesnt. “

(8) Aseaid-l is carrentiy ta Tashiagte,
D.C., ea a FET stand-by basis and will ped
the penofficial cover provided in the Gaited
States and obresd.

(6) Fonds ore available gor his
activity, ond are obargoabie to acocant
gesbor 419298455~5201. There 18 Ro convene
gieaal form of project for this aotivity.

B. Biogrepnte Inforpatied

(1) Aeweel vas barn on @ Pobressy 1ES%
$e ia 5 vaite male, erried,

Pe [eee

i e Csba
! ieee galehouse, is the Peshingtes, B.G. area.

2 ssast0e1 bas po copendenta wbo ore $e
: ecoemtany hin ea 0 foreign acsiganand at thie

! {3) _sxsmoe) bao otoven, (11) youre, of |
: forms ocboolizg, imoladisg tee (8) yours overs i

et eT one a ne moa YER ARE
ene pose etna ere
vo mR UTS orogeny mrcmere



ode

& Bacheler Degree, f101d unkzova,

(4) Ain0G~1'e business oxperionce
ig limited to a short period of time im
1946 eolling machine tools, salary
tanknova,

(8) MOIUGe1's hobdies and catoids
interests are not known at this tine,
except be enjoys bansball,

(6) AEMUG-1 16 ctabdle and dedicated
from initial impressions, ¥o
peeescnent has yet been made of his
bereonality,

(7) AlatUG~1 ta gatirely scpendent
G@pon hie Agency salary, me J
finsucial recources other than 1870 pesem
lege with his wate im Cubs,

(8) asa700=1 203 traveled to Bonico,
Canada, and poos!bly Beaduras. Be has
Bet booa known to resis in any foreign
country othor than ia transit.

@ AMmG0~} apseks Byanish only.
Ba has mo Otter aspenns Sonatas if

C. Security Conoiéerations

(1) - A001 began his Assecy eervice
on an oral coatract besis em 1 Ray 1034,
Bequest for » POA fer coatast and
Secsampent vas eutaitted em 1 way 1964, Bo
derogatory informatica bag been developed
by iavestigatioa,

(2) AOIOG~2 to avare of ULB.
Government interest in hin. fe not
oware of CIA interest at this tins,

(3) | sMaE0G~1 hoe pot entered any Agency
installatieas,

(4) ABHBO-1 19 in coatact with so
o2@ other than C14 stati wergonmel, Kia

= SE TR ST OE NTO AE RENEE ES Se $e
ene eneae ithe tdends arandncadeetceameemaeeee °


Oe

family, relatives, friends are not avare
od bis Agency connection, por are they
msar the area of sesigusent,

fe (8) AMGO~1's past connection
vith ¢!
to the
the . ov

(9) ASW) bas wo fenily probdlene
or any other leas which might have
@ bearizg ca bia ability to live his
cover beret heel the fact bended apeaka

v! ceeld pregent prodless

$a Ingiisnepesting areas.

and

“| (7) AMBUG-1 bas not used any
reference to CIA for any purpese,

“ (e88) Proeest plans for Abred-1'a *
utilization do not contemplate uge of
any other ponofficial or official eerer.

10) AMHNO01l ig under direst saporvisioa
of officers end no exorgensy coatact
Plea has been necessary to date, Hovever,

@ plen vill bo sat up at a later date and
Bypropriste effiess notified, ag preearibed
by Agency Regulation 20-953,

(12) AMEUGs1 doce not ieipate tn
ary Govormment or Agoncy-affiiiated beneficial
(insurance) plans.

(12) AMUG1 46 8 Cubas refuges and
thus bas no U.5. Seloetive Service status.

DB. Gperetiean! Informatica

(1) WY/BA/CI kos eagaged ABI-1 to
éupport dovelepsent of ccunterintelligence
eptrations. In Washington, D.C., be ig used
26 a eource of inforustion. When appropriate
rearuitueat targets are apotted abroad, AKNUG-1
will be cent abroad to support recruitment



te

operations. It ia not anticipated that
aay individasl, in the U.8. or sbresd,
will be made avare of AMEUG-1's ClA oF
U.8. Goverment affiliations until he
ig under or using his monofficisl cover
other, than CIA Gtaff peroonnel.

(2) «AssitG-1 is residing in Betbingtos,
p.c, Tae ealy alternate location for
Bis residence would be in a nearby eity
im tho Vachiagtes petropolitaa area.

«3) pama-1 nsy be ecasigercd for
travel to any country ia tho free vorl4,
by Wy/aa

(6) antroo2i'a current iscome
(9300.00 per eoath plus @ feraiened
apartment) from CIA is regsonsbly ocapatibdle
vith his proposed cover.

(6) Agsoo~1 ie carreatly goveting bis
fail tise to eporatioaal tacts acsiperd by
wa/ea/Cl.

(7) Be 6/0 commanications ebsanel io
nodded in tho handling ef AlG-1,

@) Incemch 29 MCMel vill réoids is
the Vashigsgtoa, B.C., area indefinitely and
ig enable to aposk & langusge other thas
Bgasisa, the prepoesd corer ‘of “Anesciation



ae

for Borth aad Latin Ansrisas Iateroste™,

for, orth Srganination of waien ARIEIW2 wilt
te p local repressntatives ig cenaicsred ’
by the ©: rating division to bo post a
M Sefeatory at precest. :

Broo B. Cheorer
pc/wH/8A

WH/BA/CI/L.Libby :pap(12 May 64)

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 = wH/SA/CY

1-
1 = 201 file

