# 104-10336-10008

## Page 1

1704-10336-10008

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

re CIA IR-09

TION

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE CF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please.let me krow if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03

HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CLA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CLA-IR-22 "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermir !. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 8

CIA-IR-09 George Bush Computer Search.

The Review Board provided CLA with a copy of an FBI document, dated

November 29, 1963, prepared under the name of John Edgar Hoover, which

states: "The substance of the foregoing information [on the assassination of

President Kennedy] was orally furnished to Mr. George Bush of the Central

Intelligence Agency.... We have been informed that the DO has no record of a

"George Bush" being in the employ of CIA in 1963 with the exception of

Mr. George William Bush who has already given a sworn affidavit that he is not

the "George Bush" in question. It is our understanding that the CLA has

confirmed that the search query included George Herbert Walker Bush prior to

1970. CLA should determine whether George Herbert Walker Bush is the person

to whom the memorandum refers and should provide a definitive statement

regarding the scope of its search and the basis of its conclusion. Any and all

personnel files of George Herbert Walker Bush should be reviewed to determine

whether he had any affiliation with CLA during the 1963 period. Once the formal

statement is provided, this request will be complete.

CLA-IR-10 IG Reports.

CIA will determine whether the IG's office maintains an index or inventory of its

reports and determine whether the IG's office prepared a report on the handling

of Oswald. Since April 1997, CIA has had no response and no time frame for a

response.

CLA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics.

We are asking that CIA determine whether it possesses any files or records on

Warren Commission critics Edward J. Epstein, Josiah Thompson, Mark Lane,

Harold Weisberg, or Sylvia Meagher. The Review Board is not requesting

information per se regarding any FOLA requests by these individuals or any

Public Affairs news clippings. Since April 1997, CIA has had no response and

no time frame for a response.

¿To the extent that CIA possesses FOIA files or records on any of these

individuals, and to the extent that those records contain information that was not filed

with the courts, such records are being requested for review by the Review Board.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

20 March 1997

SUBJECT: Call from Dan Mulqueen, OP/FOIA

re update on OP Name Trace: George Bush

(Previous results attached)

Barry,

Dan; called this

morning to indicate that he had

retrieved the folder on George W. Bush, the individual who

had been a GS-05 Watch Officer in 1963.

information in the file was that George W. Bush resigned

from the Agency 15 February 1964 and went to work for DIA.

Dan added that he still had been unable to locate the file

on George H. Bush referred to in his 14

March call.

I told Dan that unless he heard from me in the next couple

of hours,

he should consider this a closed

query.

Bonnie?

Bonnie

---

## Page 4

13-00000

14 March 1997

SUBJECT: OP NAME TRACE - George Bush

On 14 March 1997, Joe Murphy asked me to conduct an

Office of Personnel name trace on

George Bush.

Joe advised

that other searches with Do, etc., were also being

conducted. This George Bush was not the former DCI or

former President, but a person supposedly associated with

the Agency in the 60's who may have been given information

about the Kennedy assassination.

2.

I learned from voice mail that the OP Information

Officer, Jean Kadaris, S57636, was on leave and would not

return to the office until Monday, 17 March. I then

contacted the OP/FOIA Officer, Dan Mulqueen, S57639. Mr.

(Mulqueen questioned the direct call, indicating these

requests usually come through Becky

• Rant. I explained

the

nature of my request and told him I would follow up with a

call to Becky Rant's office advising them of my call.

This

• done by a call to Pat Berlin on 14 March who said she

would advise Becky of the name trace request.

Mr. (Mulqueen called later that day to indicate two

possible hits on George Bush, as follows:

a. George W. Bush

a 5x8 card record identified by No. 237286.

Per Dan, it was not known if this was an

Employee Number and was thought it might

rather be a Security File Number. Dan)

suggested this be pursued with Office

of

Personnel

Security.

The card record

indicated dates of service as 29 Sep 63 -

be a GS-05 Watch Officer,

designator I/OCI/OAD/CIA/WO. He was born

in 1939.

b.

George H. Bush

microfilm record showing #80-01155R00010096,

an indicator that the file was sent to

Archives in 1980. The file could not be

The name does not appear in any other

OP data bases.

4.

Barry Harrelson has been advised and is awaiting

results

of other component name traces.

"Bonnie H.",

Bonnie Hunter

---

## Page 5

13-00000

1.5, 10

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

CSI

JFK ProJeCt Orficer

ila Quarta

Associate Information Review Officer, DDA

CIA-IR-09 - George Bush/ARRB Request

1. This is with reference to your 2 February 1998

memorandum (attached) and our telephone conversation on

6 February wherein you requested that the Directorate of

Administration (DA) review "any and all personnel files of

George Herbert Walker Bush to determine whether he had any

affiliation with CIA during the 1963 period."

The Office of Personnel Security and the office of

Human Resource Management have reviewed its files and have

been unable to find any documentation to show that George

H.W. Bush had any affiliation with CIA during the 1963

3. This concludes DA action on this request.

Attachments

ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

---

## Page 6

13-000001

2 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Fredrick C. Wickham@DO

Lee S. Strickland

Mary Lou Cummings@ DCI

John F. Pereira @DCI

FROM:

OFFICE:

J. Barry Harrelson @DCI

JFK Project Officer

OIM/HRP

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

ARRB Requests - Priorities

ARRB letter did 18 Dec 1997, Status of ARRB Request for Additional

Information

I have been advised by the ARRB staff that an updated "Status of Requests" letter will be sent to

the Agency early next week

The following requests will be listed as priorities to be completed in

February:

CIA-14

Mexico City Station Annual Reports (DO)

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT

CIA-IR-08 "Family Jewels"

/CIA-IR-09 George Bush

CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics

/ CIA-IR-27 Security Files for Five Individuals

CIA-IR-32 AMWORLD

(DO)

(DCI/IRO and DO)

(DO, DA, DCV/IRO)

(DA, DO)

(DA)

#14-Pdone

(DO).

I have partial responses to some of these requests; call me it you have questions or need the status of

your response.

CC:

(Eileen M. Wukitch@ DO

Becky L. Rant

Kathryn I. Dyer

Sent on 2 February 1998 at 01:26:47 PM

Freda-JFK files are on my Table

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

U3/1U/Y7

10002

41

FAA LUZ 124 UADI

ARKB

DAtAS

70t

CIA MAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATION AND/OR

FELEASE CF CIA

FORMATION

1

B THE DOCUMENT A PrO

век 29, 1963

of Incal

- Rosen

- Ilalson

.' Masca

"EC'D--READING ROOM

NOW 2?

1 32 РН '63

AMATIONOR EN?

LEARNED!

1044136Z 22, 1963

Our Aland,: Morses, OFESCO en Nopenbers 23, 1963, ectulsed

thes tha office of Coordinator of Obra 188915& Is Mend adrlned

iber the departuent of stato finto son slagulled anth-castro

which to sut true.

gast wayt

a Boall pra-Castro

of the fresident say result ta misong repressive

Ily cate oral at thered, althored peo fastro 1a the

regret the assassinaston.

Tolcan -

U. DEC: 9

1963

Holmans -

Mobs.

The subaten

o of the s

Coland Earlet

Callah

• Bon ass

ICaptala

not thara

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trollar

I Discot de levat intell

Toie. Foon -

XER

DEC,: 9. 196

atlon

assy and

11 29 31.83

MASTET ON

---

## Page 8

13-00000

03/10/87

1 003

MON 11:47 FAX ZUZ 724 U457

T: 5-ana

АККУ

tom of satelliance on

partare

. Masct

Atentions Shlef, Connterlitalligades DiVleser

1: - separe heel of sall for sellen

Depertient of the tri

intention Gilet, Forty serie

The Pentaged

Herbloptes, D. G

---

## Page 9

13-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

25 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: T. Jeremy Gunr

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer

SUBJECT:

ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-9, George Bush

1. The following is responsive to subject request.

2.

The Agency has made a thorough search of its

records in an attempt to determine if an individual

identified as "George Bush of the Central Intelligence

Agency" in a certain FBI document dated November 1963 was

George Herbert Walker Bush.

That search determined the

Agency has no record of any association with George Herbert

Walker Bush during the 1963 time period.

If you require anything further in this regard.

please advise.

15ax

J.

Barry Harrelson

---

