‘io4-40186-40132 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
7 :

REPORM UF ORMATH
a CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tits material contains tnformation afecting the fationsl Dafvase of the United states within the meaning of the Erpicoses Lave,
1M U.8C. eeca TIO and THE the trnnaiiaion oF revelation of which la aay manner to an uneutherteed pereca la prohibited by

'
{

! ‘SECRET

i : XO FOREIGN DISSEM
i

COUNTRY Cuba, wero NO, CSCI-316/04212-64
' suusct -Rodolte or Radul £6 PARE Peres ‘ pate Disin, §=—-:16 September 1964 *
ARETURN TO CIA : NO. PAGES 2 eae
Background Use Only 4 aa
Do N t Reproduce iia ee
| wo. 1964 '

pha Washington, D. C.
ate. ACQ. September 1964 ‘ FIELD REPORT NO.”
THiS 1S_UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ABE OFFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF conten Wen Temata
source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964
Q ¢

1
1
i
i Headquarters Comments
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.
|
{
i
|

“It 4s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without !
first checking with this Agency. :

1. Rodolfo or Radulfo. PAEZ Perez, pseudonym "Pelayo," is
the Chief of Personnel for the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate pf Intelligence - DGI). He also carries

a Ministry of the Interior carnet.

2. PAEZ, according to source, was born about 1936, is five
feet seven or eight inches tall, 170 pounds. He has black, wavy
hair, a white complexion, eheke fat lips, a thick, fat neck,
and large protruding eyes.1,

Headquarters Comments
1, An untested source, teported in a report dated 22 May 1962,
that Radulfo PAEZ Perez, THird Secretary of the Cuban at
Embassy in Mexico City, is a member of the Cuban G-2. He
was scheduled to return to Cuba within the next two or

three months. ou
An in @ report dated 28 December 1962,
stated that Radalfo PAEZ Perez, Third Secretary of the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City, was suspected of being a Cuban
Intelligence officer and a code clerk trained by the Cubar G-2,

5
4
SECRET = 3
NO FORBIGN DISSEM oe

rere

wait oa ro rave rm cr XX on 12

[Hater Fatd dieteibotion tndiconad by "#7)



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEX CSCI-316/01212-64

P3SZ and Manuel..VERGA Perez were responsible for setting up the new
“Koamittee in Defense of the Cuban Revolution.” PABZ' wife is
Teresa Pantaleom HERNANDEZ de Paez.

a report dated 23 January 1963, revealed that Radulfo PAEZ Perez
bag been replaced as Third Secretary of the Cuban’ Embassy in Mexico
City by Pedro LARA Munoz. ~
