‘od- 10606-10020 (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

SECRET

November 1976

SUBJECT: Andrew Gormley BUCKNER (U.S. citizen)

1, There is no 201 dossier on BUCKNER; one should be opened.
2. BUCKNER is pro-Russian, pro-Chinese and critical of the U.S.

3. Trace information:

a. CSCI 3/779,571, dated 16 Jan 1964;

Based on MEXI 7696 (IN 95191) LIENVOY (ZRSAUCE) Project:

Memo to FBI from CIA (DDP) on BUCKNER's contact with the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. States that a usually reliable and sensitive
source in Mexico City reported that on 8 Jan 64 Andy BUCKNER from
Sherman, Texas, asked Guillermo RUIZ Perez, Commercial Counselor at the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City /known DGI7 about the information BUCKNER
gave RUIZ in Mexico in November 1963. RUIZ replied that the answer had
not been received from Habana. BUCKNER and RUIZ planned to meet again, but
the details of the meeting at that time je cana BUCKNER's telephone
number in Sherman, Texas was 892-8145. (CIA said it had no further info.
on BUCKNER at that time, and further stated that it was forwarding the
info. to the FBI for information only, not to be dissemed without permission)

b. CSCI _3/782,043 dated 30 June 1964:

Forwarded to the Bureau of International Commerce, CSCI
3/779121 and CSCI 3/779,571, on H.W. TOTTEN and Andy BUCKNER, Contact
with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.


13-00000

c. DBA 78315 dated 19 August 1964 (FBI):

Concerns Andrew G. BUCKNER aka Andy BUCKNER, and "Little

Caesar", An FBI source reported that two employees of the Washington
Iron Works, Inc., Sherman, Texas told him that Harold TOTTEN, owner of
the business, and an employee, Andy BUCKNER, had made statements critical
of the U.S. Government and of high Government officials. Both TOTTEN and
BUCKNER reportedly had made so-called business trips to Mexico City in
the past. BUCKNER was reported to be purchasing agent for the firm.
BUCKNER had made remarkes among the firm employees that he believed Fidel
CASTRO of Cuba and Nikita KHRUSHCHEV of Russia to be smart people. Both
BUCKNER and TOTTEN criticised U.S. Govt policies and opposition to the
U.S. blockade’of Cuba. They criticized the policies of both Presidents
Kennedy and Johnson. A few days before Pres. Kennedy was assassinated
on 22 Nov 1963, BUCKNER remarked to some of the firm employees that he
had read news stories about President Kennedy's planned trip to Texas..and
thought "it would be funny" if something should happen to him. On the
afternoon immediately following Pres. Kennedy's assassination, BUCKNER
and TOITEN were at the Iron Works, and after having heard of the
assassination, said it could not have been them because they were at the
Washington Iron Works at the time it happened. TOTTEN received newspapers
and literature from time to time in the names of John R. BRINKS and Thomas
E. EDWARDS. BUCKNER reportedly was hotheaded, thus the nickname "Little
Caesar."

/flave asked Ops Liaison to obtain photo. of BUCKNER from FBI to
determine if he is iden/with "Unidentified man".

d. DBA 99348 dated 18 Feb. 65 - Andrew Gormley BUCKNER (EBI)


13-00000

d. continued -
The FBI contacted BUCKNER in Sherman, Texas on 28 Jan 65 for

an interview. He admitted receiving publications from China and the U.S.S.R.
TOTTEN was contacted by the FBI in Sherman, Texas the same day. The FBI
agent said in his opinion TOTTEN was a dangerous individual and a
"potential OSWALD.'' He considered it unsafe for an agent to contact him,
at his office and if an agent walked into TOTTEN's office,“he might
get a belly full of lead." ji

e. According to 4 report (Oni js24, dated March 1953,
one A. BUCKNER (Communist fellow travelers) was cited as driver for MOCZI,
the Hungarian Charge d'Affairs in the Netherlands.

LAD/JFK Task Force

‘


13-00000
ee aN. aie
arn {

5 wrasssirico | maw, CO COMFIDENTIAL = SECRET.

l
res A
|
|
ae
7
eae
o63. ‘ i

ieee
| il
paca naan aed Usuatraaie

ra
y phone)



vo : Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: ae 8. J. Papich

A oat 3 beah f Director for Plans

ms Ca ag] oe with the Cuban Bnbasey in

ee a Gewelly reliable and sensitive source ia

Moxige City reported that on 8 January 1064 Andy. BUCKNER,
pf Toxas, asked Guillermo RUIZ pores, Com Comercial
or at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, about the
formation BUCKNER had given RUIZ in' Mexico im Sovember 12963. _
RULE replied that the answer had not been received from
Mebane. BUCKNER and RUIZ plan to meet but the
details of the meeting are not known. "se telephone

suber in Sherman, Texas, is 893-8145.

2. ‘This office has no informatica on BUCKNER,

3. ‘This information ia for your use enly, and my
mot be disseminated without permission from this Agency.

cact-3/778, 571 i

WH/3/Wexi1co/VRenshaw: dc

Distribution: 16 January 1964 :
Orig. k 1 - Addressee
a Rt [eaoaees 37) : BASIC: MEXI-7696
‘v= cra : (IN-95191)
1 = CI/BMA
1 = SA8/CI PROJECT: LIENVOY
1 - WH/3AM (ZRSAUCE)
1 - WH/WEXI j
1 - WHR Co-ordinated with: SA8/CI - Hora
(by phone)
Sc.



13-00000



1. ASteened are twe CECI reperts whieh are being
ferwaréed to you st the request of the Federal Berean

ef Tuventignticn.

2. The iaferuation in these reperts is fer your use
2
only, and may net be disseminsted without perutesion fren

rm  levestigatien
WH 1/Wexico: V. Renshaw:chk

Distribution:
Orig. Addressee

RI (200-9-37)

CILIA

CI/RBA

CG

WR'SA’CI - Ho:
WR PO-A *° 68 COPY

Coordinated with WH-SA-CI - Horn (phone)

al
2
ry

1

1

2

1

1

30 June 1964
BASIC: None
PROJECT: None



h SF _
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE :

FEDERAL BUAKAL OF INVESTIGATION
‘In Reply, Please Refer to es
Fl Ne, Dallas, Texas RA 97.27

August 19, 1964

awpaxw =v 0, bocmem ye ae
also as
ape Buckner a é 2

’
1
1
1
'
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
(
rl ku. se," Johay EB. Morris, 210 ast Jones, Sherman,
1 7 Aprtt 28, 1964, volunteered information that had bean received
4
‘
‘
4
‘
)
‘

by him from two employees of Washington Iren Works, Inc.,

/ Sherman, Texas. He said they told old To! owner of :
vA —Tashington Iron Works, Inc and Andy Buckuer, an sapleree of

it the this interview, was in the company of

Buckner ona Business ‘trip to Mexico, He understood that they
bave in the past made other so-called business tripe to Mexico
He could not identify any
have travelled and he

.

and possibly other foreign nati
other foreign nations to which they may :
could not provide an explanation for their travel, being toe
Qllegedly of a business nature.

4
DL T-1, contact with whom has been insufficient to
Judge reliability of hie information, on May 7, 1984,
advised Harold W, Totten, Sr. is President and General Manager
Texas,
Cd

.
a
‘
,
:

of Ngshington I Here 313 Rast Lamar, Shermas
kner ens, euployed’by that fire.
eral months ago at the
made comments among employees there that
vy of rt

were suart people: We and Harold W. Totten, Sr., at that See
/ establis! TX 3 recent months, have expressed thenscves by ee
f criticising policies of the United States Government and stated_ .

/ opposition to the U, 8, Blockade of Cuba.
critic: \4_ President

They also have

—their policies,
they believe Fidel
U. 5, should leave him alone. Informaat stated that_a few days .

lore President Kennedy was assassinated on November 23, 1963 .
ee F 4 “Wasbingtee irea -

remarked to some of theeaployees at

a 1 > aoe ray

eooereres
ar rir)
cor re

ee ee

cr i re rary
ee eee reas

Rititg Hight
Barreerariarjarjageeriecieiereriers
ae a oe

sees

eee
re

Pr er rer
a ec

TUTTE VT.
eeeeeeeeeneeeeoe
cove
Ceevcerone
Creare ar ar
seeceereve

oe


13-00000

0 we a ie eet eB EO eB he eo 8 se 2 2 2 +
eS 7

ANDREW G, BUCKWER

continuation of his further criticism of President Kennedy's

policies. Informant recalled that on the afternoon immediately a
following President Kennedy's assassination, Buckner and Totten :
, Inc., having just heard about

DL T-1 further stated that eince that date, Buckner
and To have said noth further along those lines bu’ -
it time that Presi Jobason‘is
eir opinion. Informant stated that on
Buckner, with other employees at’
im discussions about wh
ve . Informant stated ‘rotten 4
the past has been anti-Semitic in his sympathies and belief:
and claims he believes the Jews will take over the United States
because they ters the money”. Informant understood Buckner
eving in no supreme power, Informant has .
Sites that itm of them has been arrested for any EE
offense.

Seepage aie fey eet a ee eer ter aa)

ty
{

DL T-1 stated that Buckner and Totten left Sherman, i
Texas, on April 25, 1964, a Saturday, and travelled to Dallas, i
Lingard pet pincer roma doerg iven_b; Cc. ‘son, a Regro ‘
port loyed by Washington fron torts! ine er he that time,
Buckner and Totten were supposed to hat welled from Dallas
to Mexico, destination and purpose of travel being unkmn

to informant. They were gone from Sherman only a few days and

both ‘were back to work at Sherman on April 28, 196: “Informant cai
stated Totten's secretary, Dorothy Stewart, took a vacation trip

to Mexico City in about the Summer of 1962. So far as
informant knows, bas expressed no sympathies for Russia or
Cuba. Informant said she is loyal to her employer, Totten.

a ee ee rs

DL T-1 stated Totten receives newspapers and literature

, from time to time in the names of Jol Br. nd.

Informant believes the literature is of anti-communist
gature. Informant stat uckner is hotheaded and bas the

sickname of “Little Caesar" which he has bad for ix or eight ?
yeare. Informant etated one Patrick at the Sherman Auto Works

at ome time was a partmer of Buckser before Buckner bi

working for Washing
a few yeare ago bad a “parting of the ways

3-

.
«

.

sete

Pu
ere er ee eee er ee

Sieueseeeeisaeaieey at

eeaee

a ee ry

.
.
.
.

beer te
ee eeee

Ce ee ie er rr ery



CULVCVATTV Te Ve sees

a es =, ZX

ee

‘

AMDREW G, BUCKNER

DL T-1 op Jun r advised informant has
no information that Tott made any additional
trips out of the United States since about April, 1964, whee
they weat to Nexico Informant stated Totten aad Buckner in

19, 1964, furt

about May, 1964, bad some kind of a disagreement between thenselvem,

Rature unknown, The only customer Totten's firm has ia Mexico
was said to be Altos Hornos, Monclovia, Coahuila, Mexico.
¥

no information indicating either Totten or Buckner have
travelled outside of the United States or that either of the
two bas engaged in activities detrimental to the United States.

The January, 1964 Sherman, zas telephone directory
iets Washington Iron Works,‘ Inc., $11 , Sherman,
telephone 892-8145 and Triste 892-6300 am a number to call on

lidays and week ends. It rists_H 204 West Texas
‘Avenue, Sherman 5818, ai ea, Jz., 509 North
Holly Avenue, 862-9309. it also lists 101 South

Grand Avenue, Sherman, 692-8431 and_Andrew G. Buckner, Highway
82, West, Sherman, 893-6840. i

DL T-2, who bas furmished reliable information in
the past, on May'7, 1964, advised Harold W. Totten, operator of
Washington Iron Works, Inc., at Sherman, Texas, resides at 204
West Texas Avenue, Sherman informat ed Totten receives

residence and at Box 28, Sherman, Texas

by Washington Iron forks, Inc.
ated with that firm received mail
box, Andy Buckner being one of them, but the names
of thers are unknown. Informant stated he heard rumors ral
years age that Buckner had anti-Semitic beliefs, He has
information, however, that Buckner or Totten is affiliated with
‘any particular organisations and bas no information that either
of them has engaged in any activities detrimental to the United
States or has travelled or communicated with anyone outside of
the United States.

H.W, Ottemaman, Reservations Manager, Bi
Dallas, Texas, om June 5, 1964,

iff Airvaye,
vised bis records reflect

-3-



1 TWEWOT UWE er ee re cr mtn ae eee ne

Peay bas earee

a

ANDREW G. BUCKNER

A. Buckner and H. Totten travelled on Braniff el oH @oi,
First Class, om April r Dail

to Mexico City, Mexico,
arriving at Mexico City at 2:30 p.
reservation at the time they depa:
‘or the trip to Mexico City were made telephomically
ipril 17, 1964, by an unnamed secretary who
the business telephone number 692-8145, Sherman, Texas. She
aleo furnished hose ephone numbers for the traulers 892-
5818 for Totten an -6840 for Buckner. These were Shermaa,
Texas telephone numbers. aid EE

‘. Ottensman stated their reservation records
for only about sixty ‘days and he could furnish no data
concerning any alleged ‘travel by Buckner or Totten from Dallas
to Mexico in September or October, 1963;

Miss Betty J. Visley, Domestic Operations Division,
Passport Office, mt of State, Washington, te c.,
om May 8, 1964, advised that office has no ’ recordof Harold
Wallace Totten, Sr., or Andrew G, Buckner applying for or
receiving permission to travel to Cuba.

‘The file maintained for Harold Wallace Totten at
Passport Office, United States Department of State, was reviewed
on May 8, 1964, and contained the following:

Passport 2169561 issued April 29, 1960, to Harold
Watlace Totten was renewed on January 28, ises, to expire
April 28, 1965. He indicated he desired’ passport to be used
for emergency business trips.

Records of the Passport Offide at of Stat
Washington, D, C. as of May 7, 1964, reflect a no identifi
information conceraing Andrew G, Buckner, also known as Andy
Buckner.

2

4 physical description of Andrew Buckner as furnished
on May 7, by DL T-1, fe as follows:

Andy Buckaer

mie

rite

About 66

.
‘
.
‘
o
e
‘
‘
e
)
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
9
a
|



13-00000

Soe ereee Pee ate ate nee :
| 4 a
- , fee
: ANDREW G, BUCKNER Scie
‘ 1m) PE BA :
. Height: About 517° Ba Cate a:
eight: 160 pounds =, : sects
Blond, crewcut ee
x Medium dark or ruddy dae
Blue, wears black shell-rimmed reading :
glasses if raster ,
ie West Highway 82, Shérman, Texas on
- This document containg neither, recommendations nor :
conclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is Sete
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be a iceeiery
distributed outside your agency. eee

a

SECC Ch oe 0 FTE fe ee ee wees men rere

-5-
Pe ieee ee remurt .
Coeeseicoaaieee teeieaciesstaed .
Peedi atceee-dessaar eter etzstr taszad deereea Goctersaiszai teiceeoreastenr Possege pester sesdaic etter costes vests citric
Ciiseesr saneae esi tenter nisin ace atate . ole
er ee ey er ees
er ae er oo. . pe cere
ee Cr er er re er a ad
eteateiy . sate 7 Perimuraeder stat Geearieneec inte)
we ele piethstr-ststar gence Eeeten wisbais eigneo eeetenr pecan ar seatttea
Gitarandiry ney Peers en ate
el ele usr susher teeeery : Essstssraashee-iertertcesnser tastes etseet-aiseir
eters tertteeereeeerieetenite Cerin Dtenrenc enue fini ete tee
eee eee ‘ camer pees Beceeerrestscer]
leita eer tite CHaCuteiDietreer soviet Huet cle ee
eceie. eyed pee reeeeeee oo ate
wee foe ec etter Seer fs tly pee setae
otal. ote Eoeeeecosesteec-setdex’ cee etteer-astlatr atier Seeeer-battasaceuer (etter cettuer Vestas]
a ee ole ere po ay
orate ae Ce a ny



8 ee Lge”

ve Hite. aoe * i ot

. Ce
% -

er os
soe cr ere Cee
rar ie re ee

il. | sont ay AO ae
eo a

SF

a eee ee

q He a 3

3 , i oS i i

oink i ae il

: . : sulla ahd

Cees ne Ui ileal “al ‘Re
a ani Unie a

< S

eee ee eee ee
peieis pnrer aces ere
Bee rulreee paneer uri eutre Pe eh Ok fer eat

ree ZIL/6 4. va

io | . 5 7 ee
ne ib. ‘ f apres nec foe
z ay

4 or
,

LEM
= Farr iatlena nee

tall

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
it.

contains ty

.
fife

ee vor ar rece ee eres
eS eee sere eeveenes
eo occ eeree re eeeers

e
tn Reply, Picese
Fle Ne

1B: se

Or: us

tad oeeveseue .

13-00000


ae we meh meee SOHO KONERE CESS
ee ee ee ee ee ee
Se eS ee ee et Te

13-00000

':
x

Xe

ia own velition.
china.”

iy

rem “Guosi bhedian, China Publ
After volunteering the above remarks,

weiterated that he bed nothing to say to agents except in

' the preseace of ancther po

of

of. -
s PET T | at
Pala ay
TH ae 33

3

Haare i
wales bp
et 4]
ie
i
3
}
&

Weing given that any further attempt would be made to

dnterviow was terminated at 11:03 a.m. with no indication
asterview him at any pi

weceives these and other publications,
S@eatify, im order to keep informed.
@t Shoraen, Texas, and the other at Dalles, Texas.

@ weekly publication [rom Moscow, U.3.5.R.
qpon the meaning of that comment.

@f the agents and the fact

\

Physical description of Andrew Goraley Buckser

@@ obtained by observation aad interview is as fellows:

white

- Race

@- 45

Male

Sen
age

o°S" or o

Beight
Weight
maiz
Ryes

Light browa, cut short

About 168 pounds
Ble

fedian

Complexion

J " i a
ae s4 a

fiheiaht
fea lh tet
Reet Pras tte
nih
ii] ybsiitttie
bn asa
liglihid
TAH:

a

°
Boor erevscecseow:
teeecceseeae Mees
Verve ssiegeoce
bewcecien



ia Ji 4803,
* preitniness
in the
)» 78S COR
Agents inquired

it,

view” is

Privately apd confidentially.
hehe ‘hia leach, and did act

jt magazine,
Bagiiab langeaye in Poking, China.

Hi
alt

ion whe ideatified theascives to hin

Sion aeeal oat:

4
i
i
j
i
!

‘to hin

forWition ia. the
advised "Peking Be

ie

Marold Rallsce Totten, Sr., 204 test exes,

Dalles T-3,
Ghermen, Texas, at 13:05 p.u., January 28,

fa

eee ee tees cenceans dist aneerition theaseieas to ha

ae
foe

iB ‘i li ee

ii rr

Totten, sr.,

ah
1 ttl
j luli

ee eee eee ee CCP eee <a s cos oY oe

eoe



ine

EY £3.

ee : . . ; = i : Var erreRrar er Try vec
i dal, iad tle Hf. 4, al a
_ ie He HE i H i
fll Pa nif id batt i i

its laa i 7 3 i : paialoliieiels oils cratarens

ia a it aie 3 l H ci etistttoastets cistete
d feat) Hel lis iu ie ip tll if

ae bet ft Ala i

; jjadsa jt
| peaks ie i



13-00000

FAS SERA)
Pers te tA uscebeceusages

ALLRED SARS 96 6

Wea

TIAU

OBA
ding


z
Q
D4 5

Ey
\e
a
2
a

13-00000


13-00000

ee : nae be Jisb.
Ceuntry: HUNGARY/ARGEWTINA

Subject: Suspected persons os

Reference: _ (rut] L
> XL

Surname:

Christian Name: _Zenerd

Born 2 4

ont (date): >, 28th May 1807 :

National fy: Hungarian fn :
Frofession: -  _Hungarian ambassador at BUENOS-AIRES
Address: BUDAPEST, Rurnbach Schestyna u 18 vi/s
Type ef Paésport: _Hungarien Diplomatie(Fassport .
Number: D = 6783/1980 ic

Valid untti: “S1et December 1955

Issued. at: BUDAPEST :

Vise: AUSTRIA, 26th March 1981, 20th May 1961
SNITZERIAND, Srd April 1062, 12th Mey 1952
ARGENTINA, eb Kay 1962, £7 a7 Gotober 1962
CZECHOSLOVAKIA, 4th February 1065
GauGUAY, Zoe Gotober 1902; THE NETHERLANDS, 8th.
Remarks: February’ 1983 (transit)

eb

He stayed in THE NETHERLANDS with the Hungerien
» Bubassy. °


Subject: —~ Suspected persons”

Ref :
ference: (rmt]/

Surname:

Christien Neme: os Mame)
Born in: HAVANA ig ee
ont (4 950

Nationality: © Ouban

Frofossion;
Address:
Type of Passport:
Number:

‘Valid until:
Isaued at:

Visa:

Seo my A.S61S, d.d. 2nd February 1983.

R. travelled in the company of RAAYMAKERS

(psychiatrist) from Schiphol to Guragac.
4 not recovered from his illness.
farted to Curagao on 6th March 1955.



Ceuntry:
Subject:
Reference:
Surneme: 2
christian Name:
Born: int

ont (date):
Nationality: ”
Profession:
addrcos:

“Type ef Passport:
Number:

Valid until:
Tosued ati

Visa:

Romarke:

* Suspected persona

(Fuaz7 |

YL att led
Vicente

weaiegede, Fe Permanente de La Federacion Sindical
@1 Consejo Eoonomico Neciones Unides™
MEXICO, irtietas 62 Sie Obregon. "Distrito: Feder:

DiplomatioXPassport
955-D-559 4),

MEXICO

CZECHOSLOVAKIA, 20th December 1952. Transitstempst
CZECHOSLOVAKIA? IN 28ré February 1953, OUT 24th
February 1955; AUSTRIA: IN 4th | February 1955, OUT
2nd March 1955; CZECHOSLOVAKIA: IN 2nd March 1955,
OUT Srd March 1953; SWITZERLAND: Srd March 1955
Avrived at Schiphol from Mexico on Slet February
1955, in transit for PRAGUE. He Lb serrahy in the
company of his wire Rosa Maria OTERO de TOMBAEDO.
L. was refused to enter THE NETHERLANDS.

On Srd March he travelled from ZURICH via Schiphol
to'Mexico.

_ Please fina herewith a photostat-copy of the
port of LOMBARDO-TCLEDANO.



13-00000

Country: ECUADOR

Subject: Suspected persons
Reference: (ray c

Surname:

Christian Name:

fern in:

Eouador
Prefesaten: Chofor
sdarers:
Tore ef Peeapert: ordinerytfe sport
88601, ere
23rd February 1955
Quito
AUSTRIA, 24th February 1953

Arrived at Schiphol from Eouador on 4th March
1955, in transit for VIENNA.

He travelled in the company of P.VEGA.

They woula attend ® congress in VIENNA.

Please find herewith a photostat-copy of the
passport of VILLACIO.



Ceuntry: Z CUBA

Subject: Suspected persons

Reference: gt ( 7

Surname: A" MARINELLO ¥_VIDAURELLA ¢

Christian Namo: . Juan Felio
“Born in: . SANTIAGO

On: (date): 2nd November 1898

Mationallty: Cuban

Trofesaicn: Lawyer (leader of the Cuban Communist Party)

Address:

Type ef Pusspart: -Ordinary*Passport

Number: 25072 ,
Valid until: 25th November 1957
Issued nt: HAVANA

Visa: AUSTRIA IN: 4th December 1952, OUT: 6th phi 4
1955; FRANCE INs ?? , OUT: 19th February 19

~

Fomurks : Arrived.at Schiphol from PARIS on 19th February
1953, in transit for HAVANA.
He travelled in the company of M.J.VIDAURELLA Y
CANAL (possibly his wife).
Possibly they attended the Peace-Congress in VIENN
(December 1952).
Contacts at Schiphol: V.R.SERRET Y ZEFBRA end
F.P.RUSSO ALESI.



Ceauntry:
Subset:
Reference:
curnane:
Christion Name:
Fern int

Ore (date):
Metdonal:cy:
Profi satens

vdarise:

Rlet Merch 1955.

A. 3714.

Suspected nersons
oo |
¥° VIDAURBLLA Y¥ CANAL

SANTA CLARA LAS VILIAS
30th May 1695
Cuban

Professor

Type ef Passport: Ondinary/Passport

~ 25072 Wy

Number:
Valid until:
Issued at:

Visa:

Romarka:

25th Novenber 1957
HAVANA

AUSTRIA IN: 4th December 1952, OUT: 6th February
1953; FRANCE IN: ??% , OUT: 19th February 1955.

Arrived at Sohiphol from PaRIS on 19th February
19535, in transit for HAVANA.

She fravelled in the company of J.F.MARINELLO Y¥
VIDAURELLA (possibly her husband).

Possibly they attended the Peace-Congress in
VIENNA (December 1952).

Contacts at Schiphol: V.R.SERRET Y ZEFERA abd
¥.P.RUSSO ALESI.



13-00000

Ceuntry:

Sut leees

2let March 1953.

A. '3775~
CUBA

Suspected persons

can

> SBRRET_Y_ZEFERA

Victor Ranon

HAVANA .
10th May 191¢
cuban

Mealoo Cirujano.

ordinary Passport
36081

Srd Decenber 1953
HAVANA

AUSTRIA IN: 4th December 1952, OUT: 26th January
1955; FRANCE IN: 24th January 1955, OUT 6th
February 1953; ITALY INi 6th February 1953, OUT:
19th February 1953,

Vigum RUSSIA, 17.1.1953, Lesued at MOsoOM.
arrived at Schiphol from ROMA on 19th Pebruary
1953, in transit for HAVANA,

Poasibly he attended the Peace-Congress in
VIENNA (December 1962),

Contacts at Schiphol: F.P.RUSSO ALESI,
J.PsueRINELLO ¥ VIDAURELLA and M.J VIDAURELLA Y
CANAL.

Pleese find herewith « photoatat-oopy of the
passport of V.R.SERRET



13-00000

2st March 1955.

reuntry: ITALY A. 3776.

n

Susperted persons
+. ference: Gut] (
ror *— “fgago AEESB (marriea wo zowcroRNO)

Francesco Paola

Sut feet:

POLIZZI GEWEROSA
22nd December 1935

Italian
Casalinga

POLIZZI GEUEROSA (Provine Palermo)

Ordinary’Rassport

ieireeeeiined 4253030 P.
ttl: 16th December 1953

PALEKO

Innigration-visum U.S.A.

sgt totus Arrived at Schiphol from PALERMO on 19th February
19535, in transit for NEW-YORK-C:IICaGo.
Contacts at Schiphol: V.R.SERRET ¥ ZEFERA,
J sF.MARINELLO Y VIDAURELLA and M.J..VIDAURELLA Y
CANAL.

o/s Please find herewith a photostut-oopy of the
passport of RUSSO ALESI, F.P.

i an ll


13-00000

opert:

20th March 1983,
CUBA A. 3TT0.
Suspetted meracns

(ex) | |

eGR Y varewrin ai a
Pedro Julio
The Republic DOMINICA
Sra June 1913

| Cuban

Lawyer

Ordinary’Passport

10736.

lat August 1954

HAVANA i

AUSTRIA, lat December 1962

M. was in the possession of 3 visa on a loose
t of paper (CZECKOSLOVAKIA and probably
1A)

4. arrived at Schiphol from PRAGUE on 20th
Pobruary 1953, in transit for Londen-Airport.
Possibly he attended the Peace-C £
VIENNA (December 1952),
X. was in the nossession of a book, »
"Prague; imag: . photographa™,

dz

Please find sie
Passport of ‘T

Photostat-cc:» of the
SKTIN«



13-00000

Country; CUBA

Subject: Suspected persons #

Reference: Car]. ~~
Surnames Ae gampova wena 7. 27
Christian Name: Panto a ies

Porn in: HAVANA

26% Jamary 2605

Nationality Cuban : ‘

On: idate):

Frofesstan: Labourer
Adarres: HAVANA

Type ef Passpart: Ordinary Passport
Number: “4970”

Valid until: 22nd November 1957
Issued at: HAVANA

Visa: AUSTRIA, 4th December 1952

Arrived at Sgniphol from HAVANA on 26th
February 1953, in transit for VIBRENA.

He travelled in the company of AVILA GONZALES,
Rafael.

Please find herewitn a photostat-copy of the
Passport of SANDOVAL HERRERA.



13-00000

Country:

Subject: Suspected persons

Reference: (rtar] )

a i Surname: i X Veoa
‘ Christian Name:
* Born in: See passport

on: (date): 16th February 1917

Nationality: Ecuador

Trofess ” Chofer

addres

sont Paespart: Ondinary*Passport
38750 rer
23rd February 1955
QUITO
. AUSTRIA, 24th February 1063

Remarks: Arrived at Schiphol 6n 4th March 1953, in tremeit
for VIENNA.
He travelled from Rouador via Amsterdm end

XY : ZOrich to VIENNA in the company of &.VILIacic.

They would attend a congress in v.EMEA.

Please find herewith « pPhotoatat-oory of tne
Passport of VEGA.



13-00000

a
*
2

Osun try:
NudJeet:!
References:
Surnene: |

Quristtan Nene:

TR fate,
Mattona
Frofers
\dareoe:

Trpe ef:

.

Suspected persons.

(us) (

_ Rafael

mel
HOLQUIU, |

Cuben

Driver i

BAVAHA
dinary“Pessport.

01807

14th February 1956

HAVANA

A‘'STRIA, 18th February 1968.

arrived at Schiphol from HAVANA on 26th
February 1953, in transit for VIENNA.
He travelled in the company of SANDOVAL laut

find herewith a photostat-copy of the
ort of AVILA GONZALES.

N

