‘SIDEN

|o4-10218-10034), + | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRE‘

"he bere of the Island of Free
* ean about to teave for home.
Fidel Castro and his party were
“geen eB by KM. Khrushchov,
* Chairman of the USSR Council
4 ef Ministers, and B. Malinovsky,
Soviet Minister of Defence.

IT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 | ay



inning of the Sovict-Cuban

‘the Kremlin

statement
ne

The handshaie followed me



oe Le
LCIMPROVE | :

Fowexrasza | C tn) 24721) Fee

RE REF PLEASE RECHECK DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA DIP PLATE
CaR AND PLATES 0

ED ASAIN, PLATES EXPIRED 3-31-60.

“semennnizetitinanen





At the Brats hy-
roctectric. project.

|


i

ese tones
= In the assembly shop of the
en “Uralmashaavod” enterprise,

in Sverdlovsk.

Bol IZarsg

scant

_asettaearsntor



i we 7 |
ae : :

|
i

MAGNIFICENT PAEAN TO SOVIET-CUBAN FRIENGSHIP
a or = ey ae gues LS ee A

se F : : fae oie :
“Long Give eternal friendship!” Nikita Kheutichow snd Fidel Castro at the Lushnihi Stadiem during the Soviet-Cuban friendslig ratty, |

I



i
b
‘-

&



(For materist

Castro's visit to the

USSR wee pages 3

y
wW

3
)

“6

|

t

os
ete su

at

os

fop- IPRS]

;

if



oo ran

4

Fidel Castro watches the antics ci a “Balkal” bear cub he has received as 2 present.

i Was

i
|



(877; 68

‘WE ARE FORGING

_ HAPPINESS AND
' PEACE ON EARTH?



SX -37357
14 May 1963

SUBJECT: AESTORAGE No. 841
Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV (201-132139)

H DOI: 1962

NOTE: AESTORAGE represents a collation of information
Provided by several reliable and sensitive sources, some
of them documentary. AESTCRAGE information is not to be
_veleased outside of the Clandestine Services ‘Components
of CIA unless written authorization has teen granted by
C/SR/CI, AESTORAGE information may be traisi tted ki

~ 1_ 8, SF 7D Oc mae.
CIA fieid stations only after it has been coordinated with
(7571 came ae :

In August 1962 Source identified Subject as a KGB officer, presently
assigned to Mexico City.





Pease eat ae a a : ee eee

Gelesy afore

Jew

Leong Brox
63

0)
ley

q71|

& buch

In the

Nikita Klcushohoy and fidei Cava,



~ WNikita Khrushchoy and Fidel Castro

{At the Lithachor Automobile Works,
which they visited the day belore
May.1.

‘The workers of the plant were hold-
ing a soclal evening at their Palace of
Culture, and the distinguished guest
was greeted by thousands of people.
Beth Nikita Khrusbcbov and Fidel

Castro were presented with models of
the ZIL car made at the’ Works. Before
the concert, Nikita Khrushchov, Fidel

: Castro and his party saw a documen-
tary fim about the Works, which was

sthe frst. Soviet automobile plant.

. Famous performers and amateurs took

Birt in the concert, which wound up
“tr the “Jely- 26th March”. The last

J 7 Plante; and cries of “Viva Fidel!” and
“Viva Ci resounded In the hall
* foog-alterwards,



Castro tcentre) pictured with Nikita Khrushchov and Leonid Brezhnev on the
tribune in Red Square, during the Cubsn leader's tumultuves welcome last weekend

i

i]
i]



LEFTIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES-Soviet ‘Directed Insurgency

renee yee

P|
Monthly CI Report (S) (Gp-1) A Soviet Embassy official in Mexico City, ° |
OSI District 30 Nikolai S.' LEONOV, is allegedly actively planning an insur- |
May 1963 gent movement in Latin America.. LEONOV left Mexico for the

USSR on 21 April to confer with: KHRUSHCHEY and CASTRO.

ai, Credence is given this report by the publication of a photo- ;
‘it yw a graph of the three on 8 May in.2 Cuban newspaper. The pho-- !
gh Ka tograph was purportedly taken during a recent neeting. }
v ao (8) (Gp-1) Cuba and Mexico, according to LEONOV's i
a schemes, would serve as bases for the insurgency... Cuba t
3 would be the “invisible beachhead" and Mexico the point for
covert distribution of arms. i
aye
: AY aeaeeae (8) (Gp-3) The individual selected as the contact man |

for arms acquisition is said to have been engaged in simi~
lar activity in Guatemala about a year ago.

| (8) (Gp-3) Another report from sources in Colombia
stated. that pro-CASTRO ex-President CARDENAS planned to
call a meeting in Mexico City of "leftist bent", disgrun-
tled retired military officers from Latin American coun-
tries on the subject of insurgency. (DIA, 3 June 1963)



_wS OF"

SUNDAY, MAN MAY

THE WEL.

> >
da
Eerie
=
BT AR
. ye
ea
>

Wyn moocew

CASTRO AND adadeh LEADERS WATCH MAY DAY PARADE IN MOSCOW-

“me. Leas



CuBA-USSR : "APRIL <b, 1985,
vat - : CASTRO IN USSR. LEFT TO RIGHT, LEONOV, N, USSR; KHRUSHCHEV, N., USSR; CASTRO, F.,! °,
, CUBA; BREZHNEV, L., USSR; SHVERNIK, N., ussR; SUSLOV, A, ussR; KOSYGIN, A., USSR}!

AND POLYANSKY, D., USSR. 7
OFFICIAL USE ony’ = .) CIA-P-163872 {



¢ ACTION, WHS

i. SE © RFICBXYS22262

DIR CITE MEXI 4327
BDCAP i
CCORDING LIFIRE NIKOLAY LEONOV LEFT MEXI FOR USSR WITH

BFAMILY 21 APR ON SABENA. :

‘SECRET

phy 26 APR ER
ZS by]

Bo t- 133139 Fa

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

TIPE 1 BOMWIOITEN





A Grey!
Coadedsl bese oy we faze.
wate).

APPRAISAL Of COKTUNT bs Contunat ty ott $
fais G: Connat be jazed.  Urcvunentang: Resed oa orlgnisl Gc

6 asses 5 met! 3

|
: |

I

COUNTRY Cuba/Mexioo

SUBJECT Travel of Victor Rico Galan,
Mexican Marxist, to Cuba

“NO. OF PAGES 1

i

REFERENCES

DATE OF
(NFO. 27 duly to 2 October 1°62

PLACE & by 5

DATE ACQ.._Mexico, Mexico City (27 July to 2 October 1962 i

SOURCE EVAIUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE NOTE FOREGOING EXPURATION.
ay

SOURCE: Pars, 11
oe Parte 28
: Appraisal of Contents 2

Read y .

le Victor Rico Galen, Mexican Marxist journalist and heed of the

National Fross and Propeganda Comittee of the Movixiento de
Liberseton Nacional (MLN = National Liberation Movencat, rebidly

+. antheUnited States, pro-Cuba, Commnist front, plans to write

+ @ political biography on Fidel Cestro Rus, Communist Primo Minister

: “+” ef Gaba. Rico Galan, who proposed the idea to the Cuban Goverme
eee ay ment and wos accepted, will spend two months in Cuba working on

tha projecte .

On 2 October Rico Gslan left Hoxico for Habana, Cuba, on Cubans
Airlines, Ho carried Maxtcan passport Wo. S1US, with a Cuban
courtasy visa, fas

20 RL A
‘ : ner Biss ef hes nascsiat -
sea eppetesi rte Vib A DERN ES SV EDPRIARY EL
SECRET





4 us
|Z Soewe of onal doaey wep tn toed eae cam
Famed prermek
1
i

DPPUIUL CF CERTUST 1 Geniswad 2 tener atiiat act nd re re Sota
Chern 20 wtgad, Docnsasirn Seid on dural Motes Ok

coum ‘canaftatioai/esyfonten :

: Sy
| SAGET Soviet Assistance to, Cuba ond _ DATE OP REPORT. 22 May 1952.
*Guaterata : at raat)

WO. OF paces” ” 2°

4 bo Mos to peretinces Soest
pare , caeeeee i: deeoeceesutieeeaey)

% 15 ty aoe, eeeeeeaeeeaaeeeaaa st

a PARE " E
ate ACO. Yexleo, Mexico City (5 Me 1982)". :

i SOVIGE EVAIUATIONS ARE CENniTivé. APPRAISAL OF come TITRE ROW SSONE TRATOL
i ? - *

Toe Sortet Govermaent has assured the Cuban Covcrazont that ‘it vil
ge Ate aesistance to the Cubans 1b the event of an aggrossion ecainst
‘The Soviots consider Customala to bo' the nost. sensitive szc> in.

ted ta the Gunton



WVroareiurd i
ee Hl

thong
aloitetios of
Ottdeer sits tutes eth of July Wovesent

fi.comc Cn te GED

NY QUAURED 1G CER OnaY

and rae len nseigoe! to tie Salet or5enay ctaff, Yhird Sooretaryy

Etplomstic rivik, a9 on estetert to diatiair FILO¥ in the Cirice
-.0f Cultural Affaire. Miie the Station feele trat Pidel CASTIO Baste
recest public etateante ainitting uis long-tig aynpathios and asso=
clations with Communies eweenat lessene tte exploitation inrect of

Late “expose”, it ie aleo felt that LJiN: V's Moxioan hackgrount, dating
back co 2955 and ineluiine the inci¢eat played up by the Mextoen preee
in 356, ie worthy of orese replay. LS. 'C-Y*s return ané present res~
sorsitie povition in the Soviet unpasey of uexioo will proyite adoed

: Snacsest in the story, T% Station will therefore atteept to obtain the
_ Mexinan press eccounts of the 1956 incident, uptatin: this inforwation
‘ion as sarested in references

inte a press artiote for exploit

"ae servic ferme, apes .
a en Pr é

Saw AAO TS ROR
oor At GET



MIN TTR! LEAN gah yn 8

REPOS.
FEIIAA599 (15 LOST)»

1. You attent{o: is “nected to reference 4 which mentioned the prepos-s
TOAGK exuieitetion af tia finkne ef the personal oplling card of Wikolad 5.
L'0%0" tn tin eodreas Lock ef Fide] CAI“HO az,

2, Although there ware ODIFEL nmerts et the cama tim ee refarenes A,
Wrleb reused thes the Mexican press carried e psasraily eno-rete ead comrlecs
eccourt ef tas bracem of tie Corman revaluticoary coippizeay, vat the lender

> was linved vit. the vorigt Zabasey and that be carvisd in tie wallet @ card cf

LER, cecrwtary to th Soviet exteccador, it can not be deterviasd at Kents
quarters twuer there we snecifle Ltation nlayeap of tiie ineiurt.

3. fa pevicwing Station dispatencs rertatring to the CAST case, refecrce
Bwmo er:aire¢, os well ab its atinnirest, the reert ef iva. Te latter
eora@mently etteecws to olain tro cirowstenses under wiieh the cereonal cers
of LAG wee Srlacted® fm the CALTEO address boot, & @leereconey ig aoted tc
the reremstrectica of the incicert of the arrest of AS 23 end t2 discovery,
WARP es wird in vet both te refercece and tia etteceont Loerie She of-roun
etsncee Rursuniins tee errest of CAITM as occorring in Somer 2 —
Pefenenes | tad einer revorted tea arrest end Gacovery of ta th n, tas
acteess ook as bering occurred in Jue 19%S,

be Sou, there ig ronwnd intorest in tide matter éoe to ths fact ita! -
reterants © svported L206 retar to Maales Lor what aprera to be 8 esis
tour of éuty,

Tastritetions
Ay



Toantcn tame aa eee

. BBCRET: | Bee-20265 al:

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

A . shot :

Se Tha views of Station Kaxiao are requested 40 ty wather it would
be feaathie te replay the criginal izeident indicating the tie betecea
CASTRO and LNT, ven if the tmeldext vee net exnloited before, it is
the wvizson of Headquarters that it wold be weful to cite a specific
CSS7RO tie with the seviets befare he tou over in Ceba. Fros a Reeiquartere
Viewpoirt Ue alleged action ef LIVES PK /2 in Pnlanting™ the card wld still
eet inyair the replay of tno original incidents



FPI DOCUMENT

DATE: 9 AUGUST 1961

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

FPI FILE NUYPER: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

SUPJECT: LEONOV, NIKOLAI SERGEEVICH aka’
N. S. Leonov



wo

|
i
I
i
:

anac9e>
phrheg

DESCRIPTION

cory ee oF eves: [coven oF ware

TDERTUFVING MARKS,

forum (include pereonallty, habite, bobbiee, vices, etc.)

Subject's calling card found in address book of Fidel CASTRO Ruz
Jun 56] when latter arrested in Mexi 21 June 1956.

Disptch re poss exploitation of Subj with Cuban 26hR of Jul Movement.

Subj's wife vorks at Sov. Enb. (cevecity unkown, probebly typist).

[cancer

1, See old REDCAP shest fron previous tour of duty Next 1953-56.
2, Subj accompanied MIKOYAK entourage to Cuba for the Soviet ixposi~
» tion February 1960. :

sore G98 Eshegasie’*



; >. USSR 1963
“IVANOV y—-LEON ID
INTERPRETER FOR

CASTRO, '
OFFICIAL USE :

| ONLY ~ a f
cta-P-163160

olay 3. ‘ t



ASTRO, FIDEL_ (12) OBA, BITH Ke
DIPLOETS 11 FEL SQUARE. NIKOLAY
TERPRETER FOR CASTRO.

FICIAL SE OMY

i
;
1



wrote

Fortean Chty_

 wedntiNe Srrcew

Clyde.k

aes

._ Potda
ROTI OTF en
Mitiant ¢, cuicsd,
DAGKOROUND BATA AND GOmerceTo

The information in paragraph one of the attached was tekea from
peveral small itcas ‘subaitted by LICCOKY.1 since 17 Joly, The
information in paregraph two was takeafron the LIFINS eirlistss

OPTIONAL: OMrniee Gai ow REED MOT Wd FULED IM WF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT
DISTRIBUTION

(snPUCK,
Ory ble

bet
‘WAVE.
3-Files

DS3b474

Tpit te

Here ’ . :
NALA LO ANTS | SD AB VDA ALN ADE DORRIT 2 ee

Sawer re Dre!


FPI DOCUMENT

DATE: 9 AUGUST 1961

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

FFI FILE NUMPER: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK’

SUPJECT: LEONOVA, VALERIA IVANOVNA aka
Y. I..Leonova



ROUTING

+ DIRECTOR
| prom « MEXICO CITY

Action: WH *

cop, cific 2

- DIR CITE MEXI CUARE ACTING) 8593
REDCAP
4. ACCORDING AIRLISTS FOLL ARRIVALS 31 JULY VIA AIR FRANCE
i 707 NIKOLAI SERGEYEVICH LEONOV AND ¥IFE VALERIYA IVANOVNA»

"2. REQUEST HOS PROVIDE TRACES ‘SU3JS ACTIVITIES SINCE DEPARTURE
“ MEXYOCT 1956. :
3. “ODENVY ADVISED.

END OF MESSAGE

al bau “ lo he ZZ
zy caret + eat, 10 up Gl

2o)/—- 123.139
HE ISSUING OFFICE 1S, PROHIBITED. ‘Copy No.

a REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN



j i
: : 30 Juno’ 62. x
82/6/Bto (Rebecca T, Clarks) 1608 J. 8550
x : x x
52/6/Bio cards 1953 to 1560
LzORY MOLT SEROREVICH x x
i
22 08 28 (USSR RELA usa ussR
: i
|
706 ere cae
Adcinistrative slack at the SgrictSehasy in exigo City tevvoen arch 53 an =
October 2956. In Febramry 1960 accocpanied MIKOYsH entourage to Cuba for the
Soviet Cultural and Technical ixposition, {



FFI DOCUNENT

DATE: 17 FEPRUARY. 1960

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FFI FILE NUNFER: 105-83963 (EUREAU)

SUPJECT: SOVIET CULTURAL AND TECHNICAL
EXPOSITION

HAVANA, CUFA
INTERNAL SECURITY, ‘cUrA



arr :

aa ar 7 rae 2

z Sintes Ja water? 2 vr a het 7 :
siete > ‘E :

days (b Beane, Ge Savy?
2. G Oralty to:

Source, Operations! Date, and Cornents:

ios



Yexteo v5 developed’ :
WH) be fermished on the Co-rerctal and ea Cxdtaral
Activities of the Erbassy. ‘teferences mde below to
_ Fustedans will be detatied tn a
“" of the mstetans wile tn textes,

T -Pat Tis

a Gerersents

“12s On 2 Geteber the sere
Boszetary to 7
with Leonid 1

* Seriet Abassador Hately
~ TSE EES Wile to ation a
Gn 3 October OSI WG

a Soviet violén:st
aldiner, dooetir, Sate
the Ackassaicr to a rts co-tert



e-besae 422 that dayy gat
“new, and reet anotner fe « with “s
sxt Bed to 70 7]

© Foreizn lantscry and a:clogized for

” pot deine. sble to a tard t: Tor hin for a concert

LS ns requested a Stcket fpr Gis duchtery
that since t etr tiezets wore fer *
_ the Bitz ei), taree cold pret exter on the fea teketss

So, Too secretary of Bs.rdo VAcsvaca (of tie Barco sactona ée

Gorercio Zxtertor) seer on 8 Octcber trat
ASU, was bath at vores

batty: fer the purpoze of ava
* atamer ov conerte ‘

6 o 20 October a faced Feeo-$ica wis neld at the Soviet

Bebassy An accor of 5:
Wriassy, 622 v3.5)

Sassy to give fear invitstions to:
PASILLA Bervo (beitergd té
be the uife cf ints, BOA Serva, Yoreten:
Relations): Erind 2-9 and wifes De, srover FANS. and

Wealt pass ten on ©
andteated tai
Yextera | an DA; costte
ie be

AOSTA would te
Zsrata wad be

Yaatstry cord not be there besaise he wes still tn the nos tad
[, Feeawering fr=n ca operation, so



Tad ik near

bia vith reseived an $2
reastetane on 22 6:
Ostcter they

@ October concerts.

sert vita the fo
day y bat would sag bia on ia
: BS ota begause of a neeting wits te

Seriet nasater B pias
“Director Rodrigo uo of
[22100 noone

Ms Ba 6 Coteter tne 3 ee
an idea he cad cf
a vosy rostricted grovp cz
preeia» ries and their wites, MS ad told LELTS Zapata
ding was fe of t28
d the provcale
‘Icbassador" send oct

« Decsuze they were in
at “Bellas artes a
leard*the artists

, at the Exbassy,
“1 pend =
& 26 Sctsbes, sate freee wed a ressage fran Salvade:
secretary of Presiiert (Siz Cortinss, tanking the E-bassy for
offering @ coed fda the
note reoa x = the Soviets. tse7 vocld net be

de the atte cha Eresident --

had sro engacenents out of =

The private secretary of GOSS tnf:med SLCT on 2 Ortober
that "Wi0sT Za had received ta acts izritation to the
Gomert.on 28 Octeber, tut aad to co cer of tam and would at
be ead to bebteaien Ee asked’th.t the 3 be civen tc his son,



tak October Karat srvth ne ake and

Ta tenalf of the Soviet a 2leseazy aa a farvetl toe.
However, a5C8 wae leaving on a trip taat dx ard eld not

n pee mm 2 ee azassader
_ er) Be s
: rt of Soviet pian!

"Lat Belles artes. On 4 October pet
PRASCT,

ssy receive? an
Mel! party for GENIN on 20 Cetobery
Tanch en 15 Octroer- acd 12%

2s lelteved
the luncheon. On 20 Getober 3a°c7 aft its wife ware
a concert of Soviet 32



cfice of the Indones!
was informad thut the
able to ettond (tie re
3 fBnesay

o8 atta Petren would rot be
BV) tat dy because of a

of the Indonostan =~” ‘
te prentere of :
ating that si wuld,
TBM,

First eeret wy Va:
~ in leerning Russian
26 October tite Indonestin Ca
lunch, ty tue Soviet .

fy Benth Estar Yre)oum
. a@bassador in lex-c0y
“EE Ciy-seriet Libaszy on 23 Ost sver,
contacted.tiro French actassy and aszed sizeone there to 1aforn irs,
ROSSWacIG Diaz of a enacce of a reotin; tine at tne dotal alffer

ro 28 Ar wives to dinner’ on 29 October at
2130" Paree, Cee eee ee . i

6," [aacht iex:tiony On 2A Ocwotar the Fartster ahs

_Tezatton received the Sev: 5
604

ted ton aes ‘arpointrent for

P ster exr.ier in the nonta, cut the

> latter had been on a trif to Fanana, Al Salvado:

Secretary of the Savy ez:ld not attend a rece.tion ty the
a bassadof to be nel} scretine between 5 and 10 Cetcl éOSHLI
vanted to know if the other officers erild attend, ci
‘they should wait until ta ould core
+ gaggested that-porns~s the Secret:
Betober, but £ =: he wis not sure, vecause tne
Seervtary was cftea out of san cn :aspection toursé wace.nd *
consulted with Cnandante © 700 a y world Jet .03CH
. know Later aout the date sn sould atte:
: wold ye gald t9 gtve a rece, tizn to the secretary
‘on gry date he cnoses (Gornent: As usual, 2200'S did not seen
oe inate



+ Cy Ons Cotcher ar unide
geunyessrely ‘

Pe On 19 October tazor
‘ofitetals ef t:

_readye On 25 Or

witn hin

St professor iaced:al POA, wid
tat B2..s had recesved a recy fren Buk
«had received a copy of tne tac
+ sity. The ale:
+, Mexted end that the me Saga would ‘te rece:
-. tT ontre frliowing dz 5



7 ke ndgat be tie 53
studied existenc:

“Ge Joseting 2a7H.4 of

. on 19 October "to erecit.t:

Scoumists bat it
“adentical wita

a

Phe, de &varado

is froqeatly in

0, . On 30;0ctober Fez
to a, the <

(£033), 05, 0 a lewyor,
bere

e.ted an Savitetion frea
iets Meas” on

of tre Sceiety of Hricnts of ©
a) censerning sine pletuzea.

Sanches wold 1ASANGVION that ne
but acd not scen nix
red seen a erticle
Jin the Uso8,
adteon .

eS tndizated that

perse : nd nad

srelled in the

3522 tae tresis nad
fog vere workin en At, and

ae (hn): OSE
e #9 of tin nacisine
Sa ts believed to
Sal bueat,.who



+

a

¥

| "sto neet for lunes

+ article tn the 2b Lov: tsoue of Eels
A PONJESSI bradley as 2 p the dancer
by Peso RIVA

‘ ..
Pay (frit) benc20 eontacted 2.8 2W0V an 23

“by On 30 Octedar Sercto;

tbe nad foond aa article tn tne *
bpd Bugzested the a: ‘of one’.
veoplo with tre ty;
RIS. (Corentt
« Sfiene Ud. adzun o:
» 598s Ince Diae® (Do you
poe it Yor you, -exteo vaduta
RGVuRA and KO Yw.CT cave been

nigratery satters.
20+ AROsToSST Bradley. ar iev hy
C.tobere

Bonevhere otsor tin their noual clice wie!
couples, ete., there, - ite
rezlied thst the’ waild rest falona® at ve

that they gct, tozetne: a enat and a ér
meet that afternoon. *:n treold a

"+ ORfice (sce 22-2062).

+ conbact TAsMEsvy
KASTUKEVIE: (see =

EiseMawovs Goatestes 2S -
1. Gi 20 Gctoter ‘Lies (zr f: SO Lajia eect

Of tne Comerct-2 Office cn benalf af ite,
Bogonolets seran, -

2. On 20 Gcteder SW hET:
‘Betonaror, indicating thst



oa,

© ite "3, Gertos tate

tole gocktat® party borin gtvon oF
5 toverder ty Silvi wL te shoy tie cortratt {dA hod
mented of hers basty wes to to at’ aventds ds los 7
J 7 FarQO7 indtected ne sti
shed ne fixed aseress., ald ‘send vt pdaress cards Yuen he
found a pe.ranept : lise bi residences (Go: sents kis 18

erovie sega) ae

% 6 On 20 Ootcher ins sTiV contucted Curlesfoicutoll of the Asoc tection
» Mactonal de L:rortasores y Ee ortrares, de lz Ropytica lexteana, I
Isatel la G-tolica Re we ct "that tee. a Lassador would
* Atke to yo: er to 3 Cetrbere .*

Fe_On “One_Lais é: ete ee ar rotates to visit t ParQhOW at. ther ehbassy: :
on 25 Cetepert —:
Getepere :

a On 3 Octevert tre age Se Leonta kes
Visited: Dyes dalte 8 a
22, to er teeer. cleaned.

g October rerters of the Joviet Extasy wore tn coateet wate
Veresded) scr af icigo by a sesnatress. a

©. On 22 Octeder albert
_ fron 11-81-74, Un: dad tie

ravalle 2rd, 2nd also under Oxtzer
sddres3. ) .

cted sutfrsa 5 Rodrigues wxtinguivores,

% f :
fore Bal pty tele de at articule 13 ors
25 October contersing bis hearty | 7



Clee:est availible
tel Focsevedt
et, dn the Core:

Si Lea OWy ees ary to tae Aweseador,
selfee Fux (mn) ofa

: ‘the Soviet Cormntetas
(notion picturés), arr ver xico cn 10 Oc.olvr, *

Om 12 October kaZn TV exloined to an unidentified rerson ”

Wes "Farorted to te tn vebacras at
eo City on the 2¢the ,

a CH, and wifog and
es; | TEXES-OF 17 Cotcber as NA :

Fartyd o2i.ct. and turJund Guainahalvsot retarned to lexicg
on 2) October sollowin: noke eave, iat eqlW.t¥3 vere ac
+. by. frets 30% i Fe

«Ts,

. fie oS OfSKI "tre Leiteved to

. sccofding to Air France manifests, tar
efor Mev Dorie

TPO Sng WEEE
: haviy: aclantestee affatr
+ be Kixed fst subordinate to;hor
tava at

a2 On 22 Octooer Vitelty
ressage ‘for one (ira

May sracr



© Fan, Tturbide as fenct 22 verid“nct te
J that Pave, because icy were saving a rice:%

On 36 October wic.c7 talied wth (fx)

ard be nad acied fer one excrs
without tuxes, tere vas aso tt
one in Haxicos Wis <7

* on 1o October cone-rntre data on visas fer sexism
going to the Uso They vere mast we Up & itst (of visas,
regulations) ror Soasalises and ESisstese i iH

4
gould Rate waate . :
Tae farily “Lea . 7

on tre ith. (haw &

“EB On 19 October te Soviet Conrareial Ottied = moved to 6:
ys Yextco,* Te

E tis to be a zcrtes
Gomuntest ‘ons =

of. "Zou Future of Poa aeeay :
date on Swiet conerctad : pie eee
“sted taat av 7 reese?

* Countries ia tet

€fe At to atte

0... On 23 Cctebar AST edie
Foreica Office axt rz:
persons Aad net!
land wore, shouting tnprey:
obstructing pussae to 5

S2L48%G 10 no scald 2 agint
stouch wita Hoi.
nde arrance.:1



Source, Operations? Date,” and Conzento:

ee

- , suprects | activities of the Soviet Zobassy, Worieo cue,
. Boptecder: 1956



REPORT NO". 1924-2038

sdctilettios of the Sorte Enbisgy,DATE OF INFO: 3.30 Sexe. 1956
Yexico City, Soptenter 1956. . eae , -

: : ee * OATE ACQUIRED: 2.50 Sort. 2956

russe ACQUIRED: Yoxteo Criy, ‘DATE OF REPORT: ? Forssder 1956

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:
éssratsal of Content: Doesentary.

eee eee

O78 sm pase sno a rzscn

Ihe folowing information on'the activities of the Soviet ict rtassy in
-Fexteo was developed during Serte=ber 1756, Inforzatipa on Soviet
comwreisl activities 4e detuiled in a acnarate qumerciel report.

“ph peau +. : :
an epeataeinae pee
z .
#1, On 1) Septerder pata-of- the Mexic. oer Banistry ~
Fe Anvited Soviet _Anbessagor anatoliy GeorgiyevicY SLU av

a luntheon to be he2d on 12 Segterter in honor.of Jose
yIGisReS, Fresyient of Costa Rica,Visiting in Yextte.’ Boris

Alek: EaLaliS¥, Pirst Secretary, inforred (fm)
SRION andrate of tne Protocol Division that’ be vould accept
the invitation to the lencheon for PEUZASS, but that Be would
attend alone as his wife was in Moscow. ~

22° On 12 Septenber Rafsel/ Fuso, formerly af the.local United
lations Office of Information, thanked Mikhat] Frolovich
GHICRTASOY for the use of the typewriter, and esied sast the
Russian delegates had thought of the Geology Corzress.
~ CHEPKASOV indicated that they thought it Snagnificent.® ”
* FUSOI also Snforned GAZEASOY tat on Friday: evenings 24
at 8100 pw wall di; being neld at his
"pone tor an ereinecr need Baareg occ of \Penex, (frm).
TA Bojas, and sone other engineers who nelped organize
the Congress, and trat he would like to invite ponte
, aid the man sho acconpanted hin the lest tines C3



3. , KAUASTSST tnforced the Ofteina de 2a Coniston Econentea Fara 3 2
werica Latina (CZPAL) on 13 Sopterber that the Ankess:
be uratle to attend the reception that day, but that peeii
1. Would cone tn his place,
G, \ Tho Anbasscdorte request for an audience with the Mexican Foret
., Mintater was postpored until 11100 aim., Teestay of the following
* week, 1B Septerber, vatch 18 the usual reception day.

Se On 19 Septexder Carte. PON del Valle, Cotef of Protocol, informed
Nikolay Sorgeyeric: Fizzicv, Secretury . to the é&dassador, that he
we would te unable to eccerzt Anbaseacor KULAZHEUC¥"'s invitation to
diner on 27 Sezte-ber because of @ previows ergagerent with the
_ * Rouadorean dnbassadore

6. Oa 20 Sertenber Boris A, KAZATSEY, First Socretary, discussed
with Cristo! éck of CEPAL @ resting ef the Economic “ormission
echedaled to taxe plece in La Paz, Polivia at the beginning of
21957¢ Ko definite date has been set, but Sh estinated it would
probably be held in May of the following years Since LARA was.
desvirg the eity on Yorday, 24 Seztenbor, for & two-week vacation,
he evald rot sccost LAALISEV's invitation te lunen, but pronised
to call bin on reltaning to Maxico Citys

7s" i 25 Soptenber KAZATSSY indicated he was sending a gift to Delfin
JsaXO2 Juarez, a lever, of the International Affairs Office of
“Ssguro Social (Social Security).

8, . £120 on 25 Septecber EAZANTSEV tentatively ermraged a luncheon
date for Thursday, 27 Septenber, with Eduardo WZHAN and (fru)
GARCIA Rojas to thark both of then, in the nase of the dnbassador,
for all the attention they had paid to the Soviet, fcoreiea to

_ the Geological Conference.

270 Dias of the Foreign Kintstsy siwited Tergenty”

+ to sexd POPOV directions for resching his Lome, since it was a
Little difficult to finds -

+ ma 20, coors ennagi sggiepaeaa.* oe
area * inna a the Borde



aye seracceninte were nats for LZANTSSY to root with Beriardo
a PFSAGS Yorales of the Direcsizn Geraral és Prensa, (Foreign

Ministry Prom Saction) ea 27 Se

a)
sbassadzr had previously expressed a devine
yon that’ +

a

'

a aS mboF PANOY nade actangeroste for GIERKASOY to 200 |
vy the Baitign Acbassadsn'et-inco gene at the Haitian Exbassys {
“PALOV “also nade sinilar acre 18 at tha Guateralany ne 1
‘Doxiniean, ard Costa Rican inbase: ‘dn attonpt to plano watt aera f
“the Honduran Charge d'affaires way unsiccessful at. that tim, i
j

,

i

‘

bat an axpointrent was mids later tn-the wok. _ - { :
ary of the Feruyien ” 2 : : :
i : 7 Soptexbor concerning ! 5
useer question addressed to the - . ce
x President, of the Chacter of Deputies and a note of Sovict opinion

« on the Sues question. Since Pera docs not have idiploatio
oc +” pelations:.ith tho Soviet fon, MCKAZS could not send these

notes to his country, Satretirm they to FOFOV.- , 7

0a 2 Soptesber KAZANZSEV ecntacted ficgo ZiAVARRO rave, Firat
Seerotary of the Costa Fic kcbass7, wha, said he/had atteapt

" "s+ "+ ("reach KAZANTSEY about a certain matter, for President FIGUERSS «
yet beateodd kin thatvbo would save an or dity to‘see the Russian

i +”, dobassitor both at diner et the Foreign en staat day ,and at

 ) , . the reception ta the eventzz.

| aN 0a i7 Septacbor 7 The seer of the mene eSisnaor mate
earrangensnt aga Niko! ‘SONS, a
oo peetiine. Fogg tp, tikeaen Se een en 8100 =,

‘Pelle “in Salk anette

stteipted 0119 -Secteaber to arrange © necting wi

: cg0ca:n Batros, First Secretary of the Quatexalan_

eae pou  CHOCANO appeared hesitant to comuit hinself to «
", . ‘Bpecifie date, and finally ‘asked KAZATSZV to call hin on the
. 25the KALANTSEY, averad to ignare G.0cASO's dipinterest in the .

-matter, ey ; .

B | G29 September IAO:OT left « nese age at the Eeusdorean Enbassy,
+ saying that dcbassador MULAL-EN(OV wished to invite the

E Be anearasal piace ooce GecT TINT ATM TTT

eee 2 dotinate Plans were made,

See SaCRe tr



12702038
Page &

endor the Argentine Acbassador attexrted to-centact
W who was bisy at the tine with the liorwestan Querze~
atAtratres, -He viched to know the tine ef tre Soviet diner on
27 Soztexdor as tho Voresuelen E-tascy was havirg @ Co:
+ from 7120 to 9100 pars on the cana day, and Be would like to
atterd both functions, The Soviet invitaté:n was for 8:09 paris
* po the Argentine Actassedor deziged he wezld go to the ¥ lan
+ Serenory faret, and arrive a 2ittle late for the Soviet

0m 21 Sectanbor the focretory of the Oub:a Achassador infor: A
Abert Aekseyevie! ATVIEY, Attaoae, tha
to the Guban acbasfador who was 121, ami would like to portpone,
thoir luncheon date for that day until Rersdy or Friday of the
following weeks They decided on Friday, 23 Sertexbor and
MATVEEST said that the Soviet érbassador vod also like to invite
"the wife of the Qudan Acbassador to a mottorericture s:oving thet
exe day. Aftor checking with bassador arranzenents vera
nade for 7130 pom, Friday, ber, The Cuban dchassedor
and his wife, and Francts: Corns :
of the Cuban Enbas:

Plans were nade for : of the Cuban Eabassy

to rest for lunch on Vednesday, 26 Septeber. However, KAZAvISSV

later cancelled the date upon learning that they would have an
‘opportunity to see each other at the Sovie: Ehbasay,

Qn 25 Septerber KAZANTSEV talked to Franc!sco AFJILAR, Comselor
of the Salvadoran Enbassy, concerning some rpcords which FOO
‘had cent to AGUILIR, Thy latter put off a proposed meeting with
“KAZANTSSY, suggesting that be contect hin the following weeks

2. appointaents vere arranged between CisXEASOV and podrick PISTORA,
. ~_Wanister of Coech Legation, for 3 and 10 Seztenbers
;, Minister of © ,

n DoriMurnay, ex’ ree.of the Soviet
Bnbassy, and BLAZK, Czech Cultur paganda
‘“Uiticers for a wolléy-ball gew toto held Stove oc:
- Septmter, at the Bilnoario Olizpicos

ca (a 7 Sezterbor dese is, ipitache of the Ceech Legation,
2” mato arrangenents to stop ty the Soviet RcSesay on 10 Septesber
to discuss some motion pictures, Althairh the Soviets had no |

i shiner uaskae ‘aviea motion | Fe carede AUESS was told that
either -AKOY, are ti
(Padek a asyl

or
geen ra SSE RATRISE omy



Ay Crock ientetesNors sone: and his wife wore expected at the Soviet
“Pebassy at 1100 pone on 29 Septerder.

4 Se On 22 Seztesber a never of the Czech Legation infored Mariya
Pa TWT0YVa, Soviet exployee, that Minister PISTORA accepted the
tation to dinrer st the Soviet ebassye On fhe sano diy’
‘eee arracged to confer with Lev litkolayeviely/Z LK0%, CY a
ergharys conerning the fiesta vnich wna to held ak ta
Ma residence, Avores 923, on 29 Soptarbar. further
ee Erdicated that sone forty Soviets were expected to
attend the party. e :

+ 6° On 27 Septenber an arpointment was set up for _ ARLCKY,,
=, ‘Gounsede rae he feesh Leration to visit the Soviet Esbassador . |
‘that day. ae

~ Be The Crech Legation contacted the Soviet Exbasay on 29 septesbar

to ask Sf they’had a truck or pick-up taat could'te used to +
_: + transport © ping-pong table fron the Czech Legaticn to the
Scere aa . Minister's residence for the party that evening. At first PANOV -
feel _ + replied that they did net have euch « tehtele, but later offered,
i to pick up the table for then in thoir *truck.® ae

: (= : : tea
_ m7 qe ey of the Italian Exbassy thanked

16 photos he had sent her, and indicated that
ire ant her husband’ vere planing to have a dinner at her hone
for the people, including CiERMASOY, who had-been together in
: Aguascalientes, (This probably refers to the group tho attended -
e-: 7 the Grape Fair sn guasoalientes in Auguste) | °

ro The Indonesian Charge d'affaires accerted an invitation 6 a
"notion pietare shoving at the Soviet Esbesay for 8 Septe: Tare

ise On 18 Septerber a wonan fren the Association of Yipionats advised
| [+ * GOTO, KAZANTS2V, POPOV, and RCHA‘OV-that the ssscciation would — _
‘7-7 + poet at 1130 pom on 17 Sopterber at the Restaurant 1-2-3, GLOTOV
Suntarmed her that all vould probably attend, and that. KiZANISEY
+ would like a receipt for his association dues,

+ bg Arrangements vere nade for Anbasondor KULAZHEXOY to receive
i. $he Iareeli Minister s€ 12100 on 17 Sertender, ‘and the Morvegian
- Charge dtaftaires at 11145 on 18 September, :



oe

5d" LULAZHUDIXOY, Cid CASOV, and FOPOT and their wives were invited © -: +,
.to attend g recestion on Priday, 23 Septenber at the Lebanese :
~"Tegation tn horor of the Lebanese dvbassador to Weshirgton, D.Cey .
+ who’ wes passing throush Mexico, The Soviet Charge d'affaires Hees
also, eccepted an invitstion for dimer at the lebanese legation 9+
00,29 Saptecber at 8100 pene :

* 65, fp 29.5 Segtenber ROMANOV pada arrangerents te eed onlor) outer
) of fhe Cultural Comittee of the Organization of
fdreoeth States, who had recertly been hone to Argentina. FOOT
- Rentioned that ho had also spent three months away fron Mexico
on vacat, in the Soviet Union.

~ Te FeltcossTsRi (ph) of the British Enbassy contacted CiZRKASOV on
29 Septenber concerning plans for a luncheon and ame table tennis
Gares on Saturday, 22 Septenter at 1100 pam. Sine she could only
seat ten porsony and there would be five fron the Eritiah enbaseys 7
who would like to invite five of the Soviets. ‘hey decided on \
the Anbassador, CisAKASCV, AXS=O7 and his vife, and GLOTOV ant
his wife. However, since that added up to too many quests, : a
CistxASOV agreed to let her know exactly the follewing day, and

‘wided that since he played table tennis badly, he vould aerve 09,
referee,

» Be - Ca 22 Septonbor J. Kf Canju of the Indien  Rabasey consratulated
. KAZANTSSY on his tion (see section on Personnel) and asiod. .
* aboirt the chart waich the Soviet geologist delegates nad :
- @istributed at the cocktail party at the Enbassy, Part of the
chart received ty the Indians was missing and they vould like
another cory, KAZATSeV said that all tut.six or eignt of the
Gelogates had returned and the rest were visiting in Yucatan. He ,
Would try to get-ancther copy, but if he could not, be was sure
“a aie Gelogates could cet At through the Soviet delegate at

1

ao + : «

“(3 ‘WRTO, cnarge Gtattaires of the Yinntsh’ Legition and bu:

wife, accepted an eciitcheeal wan benideean at tae ee Enbassy
on 27 Soptesbor. \


thn’ Cultural officas to a cocktald
Fa spe eet tet that sare
way teaeeka do la fuonte who ws
Jeaving for Europe, “SAiC-E2 apologized for not having beea
able to nothfy thea sooner, tat stated that he. nad been sicks
Ho inforned MASHVAEVIGH that Jas/FaWalOWskT, “wlturad Atzacce—*
of ‘the Polish Iczation, was coi’ to attend and that he’
that it would be very interesting forithe people from
“the Soviet-Sxzassy tos speak with the people that wore going to.
3 Chere, HASWIASVIO Promtaed he would do eyerything possible
be there, - :

03.23 @ytocber 5410-22 Arrionn 4 Logized te MASHUEVID for
, Rot having cora that roning eh! eaid he had beon with
-KOUQAKOY tho night before, TASYUCVIGH yas aware of this
and aid arrangencnta had beon Eade. :BANCdS2 Anquired cbout _
sona'pictures, but KOLOYAKOV knew nothing about then and
Rect abaving next day for San Lote Totocts eo HaSIUNEVIG!
“would talk to hin about" at lator. cs

ze nade ‘for tho’ whasaidor to-aee Higued
Director of Bellas 4 ‘Artes, at 1130 pene on

nia Ciaetean-Busasen Institute. for Oatured Interchange)

—

{CUALOY ‘contacted the X1QR-on 25. Siptenber and told Texas.
\WEZ Yorado that it would not be necessary for the Institute
to send over an operator and projector as they had been able
Louse 25am Copy of the £4ln they sory Kotng te, show,

Ignacio f-ARe2 Rodilen, prontront ‘Postioan leftist ‘in edieation
Aaformed KOLOMLAKOV on 7 Septenber that
be bad recoived at the Conite del Trece a letter fron the
Federation or Union, and would Itke to talk-”
decouse At was ‘related to a.plan
up at the Bxbassy about Mexican,



Fe py pew
. COREG is
Sas ME { “HID2033
ee bscie psstesserfcaesstenepiest = Decseteat
‘thoy should take advurkage of the invitstica shteh the *
Soviet painters had mde for 1957. The Sovist
€cald not receive the exhitition this year be

- of space and other expositicns being preser

indicated that they would like to have
go to tho Soviet Union, and ke world like to

~ KOLANYAZOV and tho Anbassador cohcernirs,

HAS ended HATVAYEY on 7 Septerbor, and told hin that
the comittee of the Frente Nacicnal as artes Hizsticas,
of which he ds a mecber, had received a letter frm the
Union de artes Plasticas in the USSR and he wold like to
talk with tho Acbassador concerning it. He vas-tald to
take the matter up-with the Cultural attacce first, Lter
arrengenents wore nie for MARES to‘aee the sbascador at
20100 a.m. on hursday, 13 Soptexber, HARES wished to
bring all the coruttes with hin, because of the 4x ortante
Sf the matter, but wes told to bring Jurt coe otter versone

fie Yotion pieturest .

ee Destro:

IA Cantu (of previous record) Aninarteta EASYUKEVIE
to ascertain if he had any photocrarhs of tne fila "iiva
+ Mexico." MASTUKEVIGI replied negatively at tad tt they
id have a photocrazh of *Sergio® and he'woald look for @ cope

On 35 Septesbor YnTVSYEV conferred with Yard c.lveT to ace if
ho had received the new Soviet f1ln8, CalvoT siid they had .

+ weceived the: following: ’*las Dava8; . a short

Wistoricos. del Krenlin®; "Al Oallito de la Cresta d2 Oro";
a thort, *dntilope do Oro") *Kasstentat; and #la Pega of which
‘thoy hed a previous cosy. Later the sane day a zan fron 7
1 office contacted BOLSLAOY to vee if he cxu2d come’ |

ty/the fim, "Cerille Busca, "hich was to be used. for i
peseen e Sindieato de Cinenatecrafistan

tion Picture js who had requested it.
~ $086 eee the Babs eS for Bort

Imer

ee Septonber St: c-22 Arriola;asked MASTUXEVIGd 1f Joan :
had to a&k authorization te put out publicity on the

Dallets MASYUKEVIGH said he enly had to mate aonefarrangenent |
“wity the Sovict Enbassy 90°83 to be in agreenent about the .
pALieity, but he believed they could publish what toey vanted.

" Ko\aSxANOT contsrned to Juen TOLED0 an 19 Sopteier vat they

aid, and stated that they were g:;rorting nis
ee ‘TOLDO said that 1t a8 only matter of consultation

"SECRET |

per elapisiiies



because (fm)/UNEFOSO had told hin that they uscally asked
for tke opinion of the srbasstes of each ecantry to te certain
that no country would object. Soviet opinion was positive.
ape ey eee

doze wamLEZ of/ixto inforred MASTXETIGH that' the
article an the Bussizn ballet hed been publisued.

a During ‘the month of Se;texber Honorie JAT%0S Mendes, of Privesi
orerai. Jesus a Flores 3, Colonia del Coservetorio, D.F., called”
the Sovist Brbassy and requested that they send kis copy of the
bulletin to his new 33 as listed above. :

(a 28 Soytenber Salerno} Kaa, mote eritic seg bi Senkasted :
the Exbassy to socertain how he could obtain « cory of the bulletin
Saleh carried on artic}e-shout the Burstan plantats Tevgensy EALDOM,
Kid care bie address’ ase Tribune Lereslite, Deliver = abe

505. DFe -

one CACTPO called the Enbassy te sive thea a changeit

* address for mailing his bulletin: Higuel de Cervantes Saavedra 547,
Colonia Trigectons .(CASTPO 19° nesber of the Spanich Poace
Coreittes; i

3 Septenber, am unidentified wooan contacted the Soviet

i ‘attenpt to locate sone paxchlets on Hurgerye Sbe, was: -
referred te the Soviet Cultural atteche. he

2, diss ont} Soptecter on unidentified man called the Eebassy, stating
bo was interested incebteinirg literature on the Soctal ty
+ ew of the USSR, Be was told to contact Fatvey Petrovicy ZOTOY,

MUL TAS OV

Y¢ =, Covarrubies
forma SAF ota tek on at Sng vel
oical samples to the sbesry for( eee
Ty

phonetic), and
Son she fad given thea.
quake very Little Spantshe that she hed left a snall
. dex containing @ silver iten and Mexican cent-piece the was.
‘to ZUBOTINA a8 @ renexbrance of Mexico. (Sra) Maria lutea’
js hee af Palecrtolecy of Peers had asked ber to check 03
~ Fenepe thing puld stop by Bed ec eed aoe ea
farther, a2 sho lived rear tye



2, Ceptain Carlos Lorcen Bcatlia of thy Second

at “with RE‘IZ0Y od & Septerber because dithe illness of his'- .-

+40 ° Bite of Waaice and checked on

aay - peceeeeeee Page 20
hy - Oo 23 Sozterber MASYUXEVIG! talked te (fm YFOCRIZZ Toro
*, and bis tafe and apologized for the glass broxen ty their
hid shes they were at the HLKIGel bore. Ee sald ba had
. sone cifts for then, perfines fron Peso, and was erly zvaiting
em ectaston to give’ thea to theng HRT told KAT TIE

Rally pro~Co:
possibility of going out to tie county en Suny,
MASYCLEVIG! thought At an excollentt $208 aah

pesiesn sory Saft Saft antersed, Saved Maoahy a2
Septerber that Cartaty| Vatiir Rule
Sus ence Military Attatie ny ALtasie off 1% had brozcht thea @ lisc*
Tetintcoler Paves tea ‘3 fTCH whth they ccd choose, _
Be was arranged that HALLS wuld tak to SAKIC about
sending the following pictares vnich thop had coven *Cired
..’  Basoy® :*los Virtuosos col callet Rum," "Cerilla Sueca,®
2 Shamto y Jalieta,* - "Dejcrte Sovietin v7," axd “Fuelo ola
: Iumac® "on 5 Sopvecber KAL=iis Gontased the exfice abowt the
- wovies, stating that they coald not mad then all at onc
Yat that he would bring ty "los Virtucos de Ballet Riso" ant
+ TBomeo 7 dulinta’ shen taey were reste : .

ms “Raval 2) Jesus} 420 Reguero eareelid a luncheon ergagenent:

+.*_ @anghter. (Field Cocments aZ0,u ho Spined the Mexican
a 24 Sozteader 1939, vas te Bie Jefe .30 15 By

served es an assistant et Fetty Offices sa igsty
+ wed currently 49 tise tolfite AdniapeP lly Teen

+ 9e Oa6 Soptesbor RECIZOV contacted Conmmiate Alfonso CASTLAS ”
a Gones @} ond asked voon they vere going deer Mexitm snsice® |

*agrangesonts were nade to get togetir at 3:00 pum, on
22 Septerber at "EoWZeTe hemo Botezen sent greetings to
[each ctherts fextity - pees
LS Beyerr ed Sra ee &,
stan at the Second ScHt ethe tov ty

Bed Focoived to cormory of dalewing of, lags te the: Havad
‘the aitiresss. ” a



“& * a :
a seas : ne
ad}: nye jJs2.Yalsica to visit Grigori Lorneyevich |
a Attaciny at the latter's hone, However,

[ Sie ‘Guaynas early the next rorning and
would pot be back wail Januiye FOSREUSZ' expressed the: Lope
that HIXGCLTS would sitll be in Vexico when be returned’ so -
- they could renew their Mrisndshtps®

6, (00 32 Sortecter bajo 4 iyver Yours SRY (of Frevizus years) ert

? work with TPOFLMOV for NIXL-ORZTS and the Military attache that

+e wuld be pleased to te then attend a luncheon at “Jardines -
2a Fodrecal® on Friday, 14 Sptexber.te celebrate the |
Anduguration of his ezestrian school.” He also invited TROFDDT
and told bin that the sss00l 13 on- Boulevard de 1a Luz atits
farthest potrt,

a 3 Saptecter Ratioy inforsed fase he sub Hort, ete,
jag. unde , teat FSC bad not reeesved
eee oa Yo the Iicependonce Dey, parade, EALTaiad later
CSTs a Eh gEttea zoagids te’ sey ghee, the Difehoe Diparérent hed sent
-, + out Anvitstions.to Zour officers in the Naval Attachets: offi
bat they had obviously been nislaid, duplicate wuld ce sent
to ROSG:TS, but in case it was not received in tine ROSCHIY
vwoild have no problea getting inte. tite stand, as he was expected,
POSGIDY was bas inese-Iibe An the conversation tye i of
being curt, Later EALZiZi ealied fajor|aitreg uu arguello,
“Seco: conterning the oe of the dnvitetions,
wey

; Has pntgeted Z0SCHIN.on :
Soporte and eda is sed 2 etter Fron lai’
a trina (ph), sdon be described ‘ss a, very’ szall mane

BOSCHIN inew to whom he was referring. NUNKZ has aeked SAXDOVAL
to eonvey his thanks to :0ScHIN, stating that the injections.
had a-narvelous effect, and that “his wife sould require further
-in§setions in four or fima-nonths, He eaid hé would make another
Fequest for sortm at tha/tine, and X0SCHIN proateed to order five
more expoiles for Decexters F0SG:Di alao. expressed his. ploasire
et the recovery of Comandante ZETDU and’ sent greetings to ZS? Tia
and SANDOVAL, | (Field Covent - The Soviets appeariextresply ”
ABBE i ee os Sa a

. Ctforts. at courtesy with other officials in the Hexican |

Hit pret rehee Fay ‘This mayrossibly be attributed to better .
oe ton of: ‘te Bevel attecnats statt.) :

Septezsber that “invitations were on the way for the  Haltary
Setaches dsvociation meeting to be held on 21 So
* the Restazrant Los Morte‘os, Insurgentes 675. after checkings
: Se spor advised that the folloving wuld attends NIXIORSTS,



ee certain about CLAP. S
a oneerosth eld baby at hone. .

4n eppointrent was rade for MOPS to vee. SkDCTAL at
22100 on 2% Sertenter,’. }IKIPORTS also wanted to see Corandante
@ROZOO but the latter had not yet rettmed fron Tanaulipas,

| 2. On.2h Septenber KALLiTS infomed’ Ricardo
! Arry 0-2, of the props
| scssier on 29 Sopterders 05 Flores agreed to inform the sporopriate:
| 5. porsanss a
{
1
t

On 22 picterber KOSHI! took a nesseye for ASVIZGV mh *
“JosusY2Al0 Reguero of Conision Insvectora had to go ov
town bod could not neet-with REGO that day.

“139. a 28 Septerbor Yurty Aekseyovich CHLYSOV talked té Cole
: *~ RAS Flores and asxed 1f (General) Tonasf SkiCiSZ Hernandes
! .° + were eoning to the rece;tion at the Exbassy the following day.
* However, fist had left for Toives and eee and ices
+, BduardofSoehLio Quintero, ‘Qief, 20
~ . attend 2) 28 his wife vad Tans A bore ae ‘erry
fe vives wuld attend and SA.GiEZ withgut bis wife. ‘RAEOS
Fores renticned that(Col,) Kosendo#SPARZA Arias would be taking
hip place on the first of Jamary/ and asied if they would.
Like for bin'to invite cSPaRZA also. “Howgver, GidLPUOV " -
apparently did not understand, and they decided only en
those mentioned previaisly.

Qa 29 Sertenbder HOSC:IDI contacted Les-Higuel LOSADA of the
Second Section of the Kavy and aaked wiy they hodnI= gent
. for any motion pictures. LOSADA asnwered that the projector
had been out of order for about a month, and was being fixed
at Casa Steele, H0SC:IN said that they had sone new pictures,
See ee ee

Flores, ‘then
cal of the Abassador *for this neeting®



he art : Stee eeeecregen

. 2s On 6 Sopte: nadrins » calling fron the Sindicato ds”
Tratafadores de Frodiceion Cinexstocrafiea de la Ri, Seczion

++ +, de dstores y Adartadores (Sindicate of Motion Picture Workers:

. Of Yaxteo, Section of Authors and again attenpted to
contact CiePEASOT. ~

2 “on 19 Sopte=bor aay one pro-Corainist Journalist, and
| ASHCGEICA hold a friendly éenvoreation. FASE-IEVICA, ‘wo
had teen néaning to call her, but had had a great doal'of
work, indicated trat his wife had seen Hosa in the Regis. *

- Rosa rentioned "that she was writing an article on a place
she had visited and was afraid the dinensions were wrong
_Decause eto had two different sots of data, KASYUKEVICH
said he cocld not help her, Kosa invited hin out to eat,

apd he indicated he wuld cal).her carly the following week
to set, the tines

+ Bet dean fasaio, Spartsh Communist, contacted HASYUKEVICH on .
“him for "

2? Septerter, and said tat he would like to
Just a few nimtes, MASTUKEVIGY who appeared clad to hear
Trea bin, stated that Le had to go out for ten nimtes, but
+ that 4f RZIXIO wented to cone ty in about twonty minutes,

“he woud be backs

- Ny -

= On 3 Serginber (fim) MOuTES y
cretary LevFZHUZOY, who asked Fs
fey ‘could get técether for lunch the
: YONTES repited that he: wanted to invite
‘ZELKOV for 5 Septenber, and said he would go by the Erbassy
for big. However, on the fifth, ZHUKOV suggested meeting at-
_ & Bare 1.19 Soptenber MONTES contacted ZESKOV and explained
be vas unable to call nin on the. day they had agreed upon,
for he had been out of town and had just returned three day
age Arrancerents wore nade to meet at, the Enbassy at 261
Gem. $he following day and Qunch together afterward. (M0icS"
1 mumbor, 21-96-07, was listed in the 1956 Mexico City
leshone directery under the Hotel Apartazentos Dolores,
Scabrerercs 9.) On 27 Septexter ills? talked to ZHUKOV
. and indicated that he had not been able to do som work, a9
Be bad been very busy, JOUTES suggested they have coffee
‘y together, end ZUKOVe Ti ie sana eee



: 102038
| Page 24

= On & Septerder one Pra (fro) ESCAE and
2a TiDN of the Hilitary attactets office discussed
of the bcoke which her hesband wanted to know atouty |
~ becauze’ he had to have sone toind, and needed to know the
quatity of which [LZIDIN planned to diszese. Sco aszed
 DRUZHININ to call her on the follcsing day to let thea know,
‘because they vere leaving on the lth. Ste adted that her

that be Bold bin fe would talk with ais frienise
n hin yet because they were al) tusy attending

aes Kira, ESCLZ gave nia the following nuxber to uso to contact
7 hera 32-92-57. This nmber belongs to a woran who lives. in

He front of her, and she can be homed there at any hour. (The
i. - 195 6,folephone director lists this mower in the mane of
; + UntegPOcla Galva, Fovillegigeds 108-304, D.F.

: Se Serato NOVeIO - Mm 21 Soptenbder Sergi el, Ast Jonroahist, .
+ Of previous record, canceled an arpolatrent he fad / aes
day with MASYULEVIG! and "tkolay®, because ecreth:ng urgent °
Ded cou up. On 27 Soptezber he unsuccessfully attenoted to
. contact AKSENOV, The sano day-he chatted with MASUKEVICH
fase . Who greeted hin with pleasure, calling nin "the disazreared
Hig “ene. HOYSLO ezologized, saying he had had a great coal of
: work and adding that he wanted to issue thea an Anvitetion for
Hein seet * today at 6:00 pin, FASYYKLVIGH replied that he could accert,
but Micolas had gone out, and it vould ve better to make the.
Gate for the following, day. He would notify Hicolas.

* "ly On 22 Septenber KAZsUTSSV contacted CenarofeaaseRs Cheea,
Peruvian Cormunist journalist, and arranged for an appointasnt
: “for Tuesday5 25 Sez “« CAREFO suggested they ‘rect! at the
+ 7. pane place where they had been with "Paco! (franaisce: MKT
fh Vera) ‘the day before. 7

they
; these st bik nos et dy tea 0 pms ene aT
caYfod to cone if he had tina.

soe Estudios Untversitarios on 13 Septesber, “‘Adertifying
acne from the Soviet mebassy who called on



a em29 Soptesdor Fachat: Kati Kegan or previous ay
J wnszcedssfully attestéd to contact 1 KOLAGANOV, and left @
a postage to call bia ut the doyerta Youre, !

“Gn 19 Septe=bor ROUKAV received a néesage ‘erat Gad Misra - :
. was pleased to accept the iiiehiaebi & uneneon ‘on 25 Septenber
af the Tormandane

- Co 20 Sopterber one Pe ers TA called the Eebassy concerning
Lsgsons. He was told thet the lessaria were siven at
the Institute, Z “ Z ae

and ‘Lino, husband of consusto(lmn) of
contacted Consuslo ‘to determine tae
{Ar22, who lives in the sana place as
fetter nsuelo offered to agk LILSSIAS who’ vas in
Aas the nbassy;. but Paco did. not want to bother’inin,. and Lino

* | ended they anda cheek yith IOLESLAS' wifes, :
vary Be On 27 Sptenbor Consuslé unsuccessfully attenpted to contact
ue MaSTOKEVY 1

seared

oy Hermatos Bota, Rrevredoves do Figos, Farfine’ de"tachbaya,7,
'D.Fos were contacted during the month of Septerber conterning

and waxing floors, .

oe Bae ir dosat: WALA ordored tuo tbe of ink fron.
= Oat}ie1 (The shopemunbery Se a lasted 20 Ge the

958 pote a ctory under
pis

i
in’ made fe ape ator: to see( try .
oe Syreirtadnt wis or tina ce Soh Vie 7

. beret rrae Lo

x ge 29 Ries piotet na AtsLa ordre $6,000 wants of
trons ene (fem ied

& Onzo Sipeanter WASYHKEVI! tried to contact one Teodoro ESTRADA
7 ef the Mexico dito Service, 13-12-02, This’nunber is listed . :
: * (+. ‘gttndar Vexico Auto Service, S.d., Atenas y de Gonzalez, DF, Ete
“he : 6. Sepenter TmOFDEN nade arrargensits fo © DrJ Jose Felix

% Sine bie tenberg 61-6, D.Fe woe) “5 ‘

be oom Sopteabr KASYUKEVICN calle: e (tm) 0 (at 21-62-59,
Aisted under the nine of Prenoise LON" Piet Puebla 7-3) at



Consultorio Yedico, and asked when they eould cone ty 20 the
doctor could sec his wife, APAID informed then that the a
naw office vas on Pusble, MASITES¥=cd asked atout Ofelia, and |

 APAUTD told hin that ad gone to New Yerk on a scholarship. |
KASMUSVIG was afraid they wold b:ve a prodlea bringing the
child then, but AFAVIJ said he eoul? recommend a friend of *
Ofelia, who was dedicated to ortocoaia, Arrangenents were

“wade for an appoint-ent.

8. “A representative of Jose R°V-Nesaa y Ct: oe 7 Coss
Ry Veracruz, forverded inforastion to the Eabéssy concerning
és dake things for then that had arrived tn orte

2, The hone address of Vasiliy Mikhayle DEDSOV was estzblished
a8 Tacaxbaro 46, DiCHOWs wife reser had an operation,
N

s-Fopresentative of Inter ae an RS,

“2a Matvey Ietroviei20 of tha G> Serrersal 0-83 OcFe9 serven as the
es

3. Sovietaurters Connadt LITKOT and Konstantin /aPAI0V held
“reservations for a flight to Kew York on 5 Séptertery
Separting Hexic City at 8100 az.

‘vie KULAZHEN:OV and KAZANTSEV returned to Yexice’ fron the Soviet
Union on 6 Soptenber. s

Toe folloving Soviet Rabassy pofsormal plamred to.depart Mexico
ty raid on 17 Octobery C-ZrKASOV, LEGHOY Bnd wifes LARD,
wife and two children, They held reservations on the Queen
EXtsebeth which was scheduled to leave New York for Sou!
on 24 October, and on the Yolotov, scheduled to leave London

planned to be in Leainered on 5 Novenbers

wap told oo 22 September tat Boris
od fram first Secretary to Counselor ef

Neca tet vena ww vertne in
MUNOZ invited ~

. pie. fer feces

be an the dompital ocated at



WKASOV tnforred BOLS!ALOV on 27 Septerber that ‘Ee had retarned
froa his trip and would be in town for one more day, then
would leave at 8100 a.n, by air the dey after for kew York,
and fron fhere on to Paris and Yoscow,

Ason ‘born to DRIZHDIDIA on 28 Septenber.” : :

KESZIOV was re to be in Verscrus during Septerbery
according to (! RODRIWEZ Toro who saw hin theres



‘SOURCE:

-Pen ik I [x Faw = he = pe rats Tens Tx

Sveti! SiS DPR

n SEE, See
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tals materia! contains information afecting the Mettcsal Defense of tbe Unitis Gtatée within the meaning of ube Espionage Laws, TWde
38 OC. Bee 782 and TOL the transmlacion or veriaticn of whicn in any manus? to.an unautboried perma is probibited by lew,

S-E-C-R-E-T

COUNTRY Mexico/USSR

SUBJECT Photographs of Soviet
Diplomatic Personnel

ae 7

Bas OF 1 October 1956
Mexico, Mexico City
Bae at 1 October 1956

DATE AC@.___1. October 1956
SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

Appraisal of Content: Documentary. ate eee eee

Available from CIA Graphics Register are photographs of the following former
members. of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, who left Mexico on.17 October 1956:

a, Mikhail Frolovich Cherkasov, Counselor of Embassy, born ‘on 16 Septerber 1909
at Koscow. Cherkasov arrived in Mexico with his ‘wife, Aleksandra: Cherkasova,
and their minor’son on 27 September 1952. -His wife and son left Mexico on
2h July 1956.

b. Nikolai Dementyevich Larin, chauffeur, born on 15 January 1922 at Riazan; and
his wife Praskovia Artemovna Larina, born on 30 November 1923 at Riazan; and
their ninor children, Aleksandr and Irina, The beaiaind arrived in Hinaped on

11 September 1953.

c. Nikolai Sergeyevich Leonov, administrative employee, born on 22 August 1923
-. at Byazanj and his wife, Valeriya Ivanovna Leonova, born on 30 April 1928 at
Yoscow, The Leonovs arrived in Mexico on ll July 1953.

Distribution of Attachments:
OCR Graphics Register (Retention)

a
[picts Workington Getribution indicated by “K's Field Gutrabotion by “FD

HMMA~511,05
- 34395 5438



FRI DOCUMENT

DATE: 31 OCTOPER 1956

CLASSIFICATION: ‘NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: MOVEMENT OF SOVIET NATIONALS,
LEONOV, NICOLAI SERGEVICH

FPI FILE NUMPER: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)



FPI DOCUMENT
DATE: 25 OCTOPER 1956

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
NONE GIVEN ( NEW YORK

FPI FILE NUMFER:
SUPJECT: MOVEMENT OF SOVIET NATIONALS
LEONOVA, YALERIA IVANOVNA



COUPLER TON

Wites Valeriya Ivanovna, born 28 April 1928 Ryazan

‘DeCuMENTATION
Service PP 10724 issued 29 Ootober 1952
Wife's 11507 issued 28 February 1963

Prior January 1950: One Hikolay Aexseyerien’ LEDSOV,, mechanic, arrived . .

Above LIONOV arrived Italy from India

ja of money. hobbies, literatare, vices) >



JMIScELUaNEous re

Subject arrived Rose from Hoscow. ~ Stayed Primrose Pension

Vora Crus by Al

aryeh pe)



Chief of Station, Mexico ~ :

GENERAL Operatdonal/REDCAP
SPECINC Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV,
Secretary to Ambassador, oy Sane nee CLT
Soviet Enbassy, Mexico aad an

REFs MEXI 137, KEXI 230
“ACTION REQUIRED: Hone

1. AU, S, trensit viea has been issued for subject and his wife,
Valeriya Ivanovna LARINA. Subject plans to depart Mexico by rail
- on 17 October 1956, entering the United States. through the Port of
“ Tavado, Subject will depart the United Stated on 2h October 1956
on the — Elizabeth” through the Port off ew York.

2. ho ects of photostatic copies of subject | passport and of
the accompanying completed questionnaire which was furnisle d to

6 additional photos of subject. Photostats, identical in number,
- are furnished of the same item for subject's wife.

SOURCE: Visa Section
DISSEM: ODENVY



da’ § 02 $456

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.”
noutine

ii “Epps — oe
(pare - 95 OCT 56° | secret |K}——_3} —_
a A ae ree

‘ROUTINE
CITES MEX! 234

TO: DIR
RE MEX! 437 (IN 2nish

IKOLAY LEOKOV, EUPLOYEE AND WIFE, VALERIAs
NIKOLAY LARIN, EMPLOYEE AND WIFE, PRASKOVIA, CHILDREN
ALEKBANDR “AND “TRINA cece eee auap
“2°, GROUP DEPARTING MEX! 47 OCT BY re U.S. VIA
‘LAREDO; DEPARTING NEW. YORK 24 OCT ON QUEEN ELIZABETH, SOURCE:
“VISA SECTION, EMBASSY; TOC. DISSEM: ODENVY,’ KUBARK.
: END OF MESSAGE



DEPARTMENT OF STATE INCOMING TELEGRAM

FROM MEXICO CITY TO SECRETARY OF STATE

DATE: 1 OCTOPER 1956

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

DEPARTMENT OF STATE FILE NUMPER:
UMPER 566, OCTOPER L

-SUBJECT: NONE GIVEN



LEONOV, Nikolai Sergeyevich

7 4 VEXI-839 Personal calling card of subject found in address book of
E 27 Jun 56 Hel Alejandro CASTRO Ruz, Cuban’ revolutionary who mis
u # arrested by Mexican police on 21° gen 56. (LIVESTOCK-3; B-Doc)

USArna MexCity At time of his arrest Cuban revolutanary Fidel CASTRO had in
MEX C-20 wallet personal card of Nicolas L. LYONOV, adminis officer
28 Jun 56 in Soviet Jmbassy and Secretary to Soviet Enbassador.

102752 Translator for Soviet delegates to Bigith Internat ‘1 Rad clory
5 Sep 56 Congress at Mexico city, 22-8 Jul 56.
: No dissem ‘ fs

Tele 566 Enbassy ‘today issued C-3 visas to:
Ankh KexCity Mikhail CHERKASOV, b. Hoscow, 16 Sep 1909, Counselor
- Lot 56 - Nicolai Sergevich LEONOV, b. Russia 22 Aug 1928, Clerk
a - l.at. Valeria Ivanovna LEONOVA, bs Russia, 30 Apr 1928
| . : Nicolai Decentievich LARIN, :. Hiazan, 15 Jan 22, Glerk
7 Praskovia Arterovna LARIKA, b. Rigzan 30 Nov 1923
minor children AlexandrelARIN and Irina LARIUA
Departing Hexieo ecioe 27 | Oot, by train via LAREDO; dep xr 2h oot 56

ace

MEXI. 2:
sud § Oct 5)

(Same infe a8 store)



"aL FILE NO. if 201-124630

To wiswarew HR sOUNCE BOR, SYURSL FD.

«pate
HMMA-04994 4 Aug 1956
[¥--SOURCE ERYPTONVM] . DATE OF smFO. [@- EVMLUATION

fio; Or ssemimateo im is OAT

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

13. TRANSFERRED TO
BL FILE'WD.

(PERTINENT INFORMAT LON _

THIS REFERS TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT HELD IN 0G/SIS.
. TS#-145923 : '
(This document contains no information pertaining to kthe

investigation of the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy.)



ay a an oftort do tandardie spellings of tunes of jarscmael astigzad”
+ to the Soviet Bzbassy, Maxico, and to conform with the transliteration

_ fable exployed ty IVEARK, ‘the following spellings are beizg provided.

y Inasmuch as emy of the bans hove not been soca, verification thro
Pronunciation and their spelling has boen nado by Faith 8, GAIZIS while |
on TOY here, In the future, reporta concerning local Soviet Izbassy

wip. carry the opellings are provided herein,
°
vy Hikolay Vasilyevich
«Malton danas. a
alia ©

7 sig, arr whist pit

Op oy :
NiAKOUIOH ‘i
Buy, ‘Rikolay Demidovich “agg Bo bf
7 wafer Tedetya vlowns

met tse marr ohh main Atta.



; Taster so
. “a POE ei lg cae
s v it ae 5 :
: fei PA Fuk ences
jons = Wyacheslay

PRUZINO, Aleksandr ma orket = epagen, ‘wastary Attache office
tdfor Irina ¥ beat nems Anh. ae
Andrey,

Wktor Fikoleyerich = Fire} Seorotary. — ,
CeOTOVA

CMOAEY; Ivan Tofinorich = exployse, Cultured Offic
wifes dae Twarora 6 UNDA LS UA .

Thi, ey Seayanit FS Atte:
FFesp/r ~

TOI, Matrey Potrort ae
% afer Anustasige (ZR CVA“
“)-. gonse ‘Igor and Aleksandr ‘

AVASUKOT, Leotid Dattriyevich o0/guard
Mai wifes Silos Iyedatla Wsliveraet 2rd Sage,
arene sg Me

4
Sham Vhadintr B: eh = oxplaree, ninstary Attgehe effin
s slew ise 5 ene rnitn :

KA Shared

‘Anatoly Georpiyorich ~ Anbassagor(ca Lesve 4a USsR)°
* sari " Iseatarina Ireoraa(ia US) XK ye 42 EW Kove



5 Hikolar Sereeyerich - 3
- wifer Valeriy Ivmnovaa, Tents

fakorknij Viadiair § ayerich = duster Attacts
f wifes, Sorta mAakerciNA
jy: soe ipladiy aod Alatsende

"MASTURETIGH, Vadinir Myskovich + Seoretary :
wifey lyudalle Kivitlove pA Sy CE 4 /CMH
“eons Aleksey ‘ 7 i: 2
ETT, Al'bert Alecseyerien = (erjeyuat = stucenen)”
, Wifes Tolisarota Zekharvmey MAT Y E yeva
dour. Tolons

warrTStIT, Aexsey. Dantdorics . Kes. Comercial officer”
er foya IwmovayKat od dee ya

amon Tasttay V
4 ny gas a rarreae anon
yee + Kevgeniy

DH, Dnttrly Pavlovich .
wifes rly Parberich = Oupr/chingt Ea eI a7 WA
eent Becta(ect believed to be Bare)

oa ‘Anatel{y Tvanerish = explore
dnt sy wates “Teleasie? NAL mOUA

THIOL, Origort Koneyerict > laval Attade;
_ hee aa » :
f Mladintr hviaytortah © & oa remy ieee Oftiee
dens Tatas

}, Tovgerty X
wifes Vere Dat!
ores



.
peSare, Wikotay Kaweyeyiish « dtpnomi’, Havad rors ottice.
vitor Welt ke 7 pemizeve
sont
au tries aoe Seas
Rosiceny, wtatay 7 I.’ fexpleyen,, fare “attaete often.
hes We: :

Yorn Alsisenti* Sorgeyevich « y ade
wafer remem vith
* ecas Kovgenty +

‘SrOTArTE, Ve Fedozorich = ak . ry :
: ist Alekeses Titsayeeyyes ) ya inh

SOLOY, Tatinte Mixelayeried = sot. Military Attache i iit

Yocirars ikolay Ivenor; ‘= Sployee, maitary Attache otttes,
te pate FisPinave ‘

pont
,, dans Helge .

ROYEEGT, Viktor. Vikolay evich ras oxneeli office
“wifey: Lywtintla Bea 0010"
= > deur Ba :

4 Aceall aE co Anirayerich x lat

7 iste russe tener :
x (OTA, Mariya Thintchra > employee”. .
3 tse Last: poaprtse ater of persomel knowl to be proseat at the”

Soviet osteblishnent as of ae "Tene eee eet which they
Si se ated :



+ Havana

12 fabssy (eer am)
2 = Fates - :


TREPORT NO.” -mewaslo
eos OF inFo: 2 dune’ 1356"

OATE Aequineo- 2 oe

‘(DATE OF REPORT:23 dane 1956 .

sezreiead ef ootinis. 2° oe, ee
Anong thé personal effects of Fidel cast= Pos, Cuban exile
‘arrested 21 Jene 1956 by' the Mexiéan Federal Security Police as
a buspected plotter ecainst the govern-ent of Cubs, vas an address
dookke Addresses axtracted- from thie-doci-ere-etenohed—to this
| peports Fe celibate ty poterabs rae rary

Bee heated Gelages



tADU) iHoctor
a aie hace’

Hse BEY se
Gases Nee

CALISTILA, Miguel
ietorie 94, dpto 2. Preaiee bd
28/Trata(?) -

UBOTS, Elta (<ltos) -
08 no, $118,4pto 4. *
‘Jpn. «$5 Hartanto, Babens, Cube |

CASTER, Josh (pare Tos Eslando),
139] Webster

‘ Tenaneingo 8, Montes

° Ge Oras 7 oa Escutie «.
14-11-17) ‘
(Col, Polanco & Col. Centers).
Prove ay



RCIA; Fela Carp i
tate oe 07/ssz Snaeys 2
2.

JLxey + pee
Atenas 32. Avie 64
teres S12 :

{6 intente) pte. Rx dB
“fli-ns4 cc

Isi4oro ( “Se

LINEA; Gloria

Cafazo ro, 92
[ede Perelrilio
Apto By Masine

guTIsweZ, Alberts,
Ponelano Arriego 18
Ba Manian.

YENCET, Marta Cat

San Freo, Tease 3s
$0 Tauiten, Rabara. Cx

a Mercedes (de Alyarez)

TTERT=Z Le, Alfonso”
Ave Juarez no, 119-53, Suc:
14-89-22



OSUYA, Maria Laisa,
“[Re*Satnin 18, 4pte S Fa.
Witredo

}21-07045° sioliez, Fo, Aza}
asin Clatdn'na, Ss #470, £4
“Lagtodd, Mauiee. BF.

PEUEZ Ro, 4507
teichart, Rosende fs2:ez0 -
janao, BO-969)

jexoe no, 647.4 :
@ no. 6:Colenia Pirtarte, ba

parte Fotocratt,
Insurgentes Sur 1B, Aé<ias.D
U2-66-05.

Wicolas San Juag 125
pte $°(23-37-81) | dette te
: 98 faa
goternacién 12-95-96 ~
boties 20-55-55.
casa 20-13-15



=)

CONFIDRTIAL

WALBERG, Enrt
22654-24 i‘

DALES Edzanto Reyes
.. .pPteris 42; ess. Saleas
te 3 *
“Of cxabiftencs . Ursa OF.
oe ‘er a s
SADCVAL, Geszalo Ey ne
Libreria Scares
We Wueres 332 pa DE
Revillestzecs cs. 1“
= tele 22-35-74

“fetes : -
Calzada de S:atelupe; no.$S, Mice.
A7=L7-CS 5

+ PAtee teatro Fab ‘
“| Eportadora Fsterritica, $;
Insergentes far ig? 2%
rare bts. Dey B.vcivu BY Tn Se hee El
< re! petee Es ™s3 *.
Iss 13-45-01, £6-07-73 iw ts Peet tecdedet® N

razrrsf th Papy, fo. €a1 “.
3251-2 oh eer i

PEtORcrems, $a, #' ;
lav. Scares Ho, 119-8$° Rexico, D, Fy
21-37-25 y 21-S5~42. : sis
wexiec,-D.P, Senet Desay eee
-7a3°=E, Alfons> Li{cersate)-
OSG. Bisco, 7? avenge



CONFIDENTIAL

aS.

S, Mea stat D8,

ma y Elba
as” z

BZ, Sr. Perse
daguerne’
Esq. Agust eae
titra, Mabara . Cuba

speak : a
do da BARA paar Cl gee
B49: q

Colbaia Cdintosa, free

5, Esthe AF tne.
‘Sor. no, 55,
[Repacria ¢



20 Kay 19551 kovolfo KE:WD, culled
books and mtoriul you reyuertad (re
raid ha wold tuke ths booke to KEIVG the asat duy.
aotive in the Nsxican Viplenutio Service, ut ons tire being Carga of tho .
~ Mexican Legation ip tiarren, Foland, a abuut 16 end inective in Goverrmant, ; .
but does write articles fur the ne: 2 'BTZS B Looel 5)

paperes)

i

6 Jamury 19661 The daughter of moral Horiborto data spoke with Subject

“at the Soviet Embassy saying chs had becn told thet ha was the porsun who

* gould inform her cf wnon she should cone by to pick up translations cf tho

wiv MOlingdal cocunsute” relative to horse!f and hér futher, “Subdjoot said they ©
“were having sone trouble cetting: the documenta trancleted because of the

medioal terms, but said they should be ready in about five days (HLA 4200).

2 Fobrusry 1956: Subject called Velia Jara de NIET,, daughter of Ganoral JARA,
and told her that the translations of hor futher's tlinioal history had been
‘wade from Russian into Spenish, Mra, NiO euld she nould.visit the Bebsssy
tho next day and ask LEONOV for the rateriale (HELA 4410),

“_ 84 Fobruary 1956s One Same] RAMUS contacted Subject who acts as secretary to
Boviet Anbasendor, Mexico, kniWS told LIOMIV “ie are not going to nect at ry
house this afternoon, but et 8:160's (which is at) Insurgentes 425-5) at the usw) |
‘hour." Subjeét replied thut he thought he could get to the meeting at 1900

hours and sent greetings “to ths boys Pals said se have sone books we want -

to order through LEDWY" (10:1 4536). oe -

2 March 1966: Samuel RAIDS loft a mohsage for set ge ‘that. vs he hae ‘tine I
“hope ho will. cone to my house today" (ENA 4600).

: 7 Maroh 19561 Same) BALOS called -Exbassy and acked for en the peesibility
“ef staging an international chess match in Usxioo. In this omversation it was
Andioated that RANCS 46 in the academio line of work. , He stated that xx ho wes-
“pack in classes” and that meetings could no longer be‘ held in his hoiro, . Ee
told LZONOV that @ tournament featuring a son named "PCYMARD" would bogin
Monday (12 March) and invited Subject to bee some of it, LEOHOV edid he sould
attend if he bad time. RAMOS thea asked when he could see’ LEDHOV to give him
“@ list of books “we want". LEOWOV told him to come to the Pabassy at any tins,
3 said he would come right anay (iota 4600). 7

Personal oalling card foud in address book of
in Kexico, (KEXI 839. 18 36358.

22-29 daly 1956! Subject corved as translator for Bighth Interuational
“Radtology Congress Soviet delegates (BE 1752). °

1 october 1956! Subject and vife requested U.S. transit Sices to leave Kexieo
¥ Oot by rail, entering U.8. via Laredo; to copart Wow York 24 Sotobor on
Queen Elisabeth (MBXI 252 IH 34835 6 Yct 56),



20h RIG LM.
26 wuNe $6

DIRECTOR

_ MEXICO CITY
WS

CoP, Ct, cusers, cific, FI, Ftfors, peor Be Fifer

, PP 2, PP/OPS, $2 3, S/C 2,
(susrense 00/1) a
HEX! B29 (AN 35356) 15207 27H 56 ROUTINE :
SS yor OW

ane at INFOS AVA! CATES vext ye :

: : os
acfcns 025 tin 34161 ) “es nny (Ant ye

© 1p PERSONAL CALLING CARD OF NIKOLAS

EVPLOYEE, FOUND IN ADDRESS BOOK OF FIneL

Be eval B-poC. ee

- 2. PLANNIN KUGAGE pibedtelh Nid

& FoRmDDen 10 KARE A COPY



GRP SECRET Ee ae bay
aoa 1za10v

: 40
eee ie o «
Perponal, Dota : wor
Memes Nikolai Sergeyevich LECHOV : Nu

Borns 22 Augact 1923, Ryesen
Arrived in Hexicos 11 July 1953 with wife 4
Documents: Soviet Service Passport 10724 issued 29 Jencary 3 ase i
Title: employes
Positions Balieved to be cdministrative, Secretary to the Ambassador, " Possible
Trmolator and interpreter overlapping with the cultural section work
* Resid ence in Haxicos July 53 © Nov 53: Industria 71<4 :
ve Nov 58 = 7 Suanacatlan 4).
Givbaietee Reaeearenis at least Feb 54 to.%?.: Cuatla 161-9
cesssiuset Jan 5&5 to presents Unknown, poesibly in Exbasay,
possibly at dumacatlan 71
Wife: Valeriya Ivmovna, nicknene "lora”
. @dldrent tons known :
¢ Tenguogest Spmish (eooa to excellent)
yo Other Porvonsl Datas Nikimene "Kolya," ttayeonat
: i Drives car

" pptuetad sottvstion

“{EMOY reine an cbscuro figure end although wo comune he 42

administrative section of ths Qncellery, we cannot pinpoint his duties, He

has identified hinself from tine to tine as the secretary to the Axbassador, keg _.

memantine noted taking his tum as qxbassy duty officer end has taken hospital bedside
gard duty. During 1958,before the arrival of the regular administrative . officer ,

adie lvenovich ZHUKGY, in Novecber 1955, LSONCY was neniling calls. co:

goods md eervices but wes probably merely filling in, bacause of his facility

with the Spanish langunge, until ZiUMOV's arrival, in December 1954 APARDIOV

asked ono of the guards unsther he had the keys to LECNOV's room in the exbasey.

Since, during that ‘time, wo believe Li:NOV was residing at Industria Tl, it would

gppear that LEONOV hed a private office in the exbaesy, one which was spparently

re ee ee ee One ‘or two other very vague references indicate

- he might have eomsthing to do with commmications vork. Beginning about Hovezber _
1955 LE: HOV began to ccerge as an interpreter end trmslator. ie spent a good:

deal of timo with the Social Security delogation, with Sovict pisnist GILELS md

with Soviet movie directer ALEXSANUROV, each ting sppoaring as the pri pei hed

or trmelater, His recent asscciation in Yanuary 1956 with the dmghter of .

Communist General Horiberto JARA aleo involved translation work, Cther more

Balletin, In Harch 1956, when PAPOMOV could not keep am eppointment at University
City at the invitation of Mexican President RUIZ CORTINES, he eaked that either :
LEOHOV, GUNDARBV or POPGY keep the appointment, It is kom that PAPOROV, OUXDARSY
all definitely assigned to the Cultural Section indicating further.
may be samciated with thet GFaPe io, ‘therefor, classify LOWOT as .

eR SECRE T



wOe1524 (9 Apr 58) _
LECKOV
_ page 50

having worked in the adxinistrative section until late 1956 when his position
began to sppoar as that of translator ami interpreter, parhepe more clearly
associated with the cultural section, Again, however, he ray still be assigned
, to administrative vork in the Giancellery which overlaps with the cultural end,

ISGNV's contact with Senuel RAMOS as dispatched in Dita dah 556 as March 1956) was
reported again on 7 Harch 1356 wien RAICS called LECNCY and the two discussed a
chess tournammt to which Soviet delegates were @pparently to be invited,. when
LECMOV asked from where RAMOS was calling, he replied froa bis home, RAMOS stated
he was now back in class "at the Universi ty? and'so "we won't be able to mact
at my house now," BANGS invited Liws.7 to one of the tournazents te following
7 ‘i week and also made arrangerents to visit subject at the exzbassy to Laie nam the
* list of books “which we (want)ees® ~

Unless LZONCV has eorething tc do with consular affairs, ve are at a loss to
explain the following UI“ERICK reference, On 10 Novenber 1955 6 man iden’
_ Maself as “ycur friand, Col, OCNZALBZ" aeked LECNCV Af he had found out about
sone matter he had requested. Jt appeared that LENOY hed forwarded the “request”
te the USSR and thst the “exican Acbasvador to the Soviet Unien was to notify
. Col, GCNZALBZ, GONZALEZ eto;ped short aftcr starting to ask what happened to
that matter, explaining it would be better if they ed together and tal ked it
over, Tho two erranzed to meet at the a-basay, /t the beginning of tha conversation
QONZALEZ, in recalling to LEONCV's mind who he was, stated,"e were chatting about
this project which 1 have.to presat to the Presidencia ebcat tho uss of the
tere fron the Toluca volemo, Chinantecatl," The Cia, ixportadora.e Importadore
Kecieam, Bek. (CEDNSA) tad commissioned GZALEZ to go to Chihuahua to 920 CORO emmmnminsiincisy
fsyers end therefore hewas not able to contest LECHOV earlier,

inn uineoenstcbninet ni nan

‘ Other then the two preceding LIMERICK references, which in thenselves ere incon=
‘i , Chustves we have no indication that LECNOV is engaged in RIS activities.

Srintrd tthe ceded ach Shatner dnh ns ee
_ Apri. 1958,

Petrave Activities

"sarng Febroary 2064 Lt wos homme ed tanner Laine are
.,mderwent an appendectomy performed by Dr, Gustavo BAZ,

Cea ceases theta a lgielie es tetnas ale alla ca igati ae

“and his wife that LSCHOV played well (possibly a musical instrument or
.-@ ball gaze 27). During “arch 1955,after he hed erraged a novie or ivan a °

it is know

-.. that LSONOV hap teken his turn # giving Political. Information Class lectures.)

Vv / LEOROV also eppears to enjoy athletics — he plays temis, attends shooting
. matches, arranges football gazes with the Gnechs, and plays volleyball, He tekes

i gone sort of lessons, not necessarily Spanish, in the embassy. As for LECNCV's
feeling atout Amsricm mvies, be was heard to tell one of the feed aa ota
ei SI ns Ta is EG aS TT ‘

ee Sicha Tr



ve

We-1524 (8 Apr 56)

LEDROV
page 61
It is reported by LOTRICK that LOWVSVA gives sone sort of instruction to eae
@anay personnel and although it is not kom just what typo of - lessens these a
: ney bo, wo venture a msea that sho toaches Spanish, During Cctober 1965
1 : VEOROVA underwent a very suricus operation, lasting two hours, during wich the
Z enesthotisation had to be discontinued because her heart could not take the
fee + strain, If20VA returned to work again in Hovembar 1955,

thous

au ome vagne reference hinted that LECNOVA nay be prognant now, f=re have
A to my childrm ths LECHOYs might have, When HATYEYEV

4 geo LECHOVA's fether but,because of his age,it would
be told of har eickness.



Chief of Station, Mexico

Operational /LCIMPROVE
Same] RAMOS; Renee SALOO Burgers et el

2, _LIMGRICK reported that on 2), February 1956 enn Saved RAXOS contacted
/, Hikolel 8. LEOHOV, who acte as secretary to tho Soviet Ambassador in Fexico,
RBAKOS told LEOKOV “We are not going to meet at my house this afternoon but
at SAL@'s (hich is et) Insurgentes h29=51 at tre usual hour," LZ0KO
replicd that he thought he could get to the meting. at 1900 hours and sent
~ greetings ‘to the boys.” RAHOS said “we have saze books we want to order
through LEOWOF

® On the face of st, this conversation aisles to be quite unusual
end attracted the interest of this Station. Furthermore, it is mown that __..ssdmicseivini)
Seber einen fing? ging For years the Soriets have wed the hours between 1900 and 2000 for meting

eae @landestine or umsual contacts in Hexico.

3. The following steps were taken to ascertats enoral information en
iNOS and *EALger:

Be Station file recard on Samus] RAMOS reoulted in no clear iden-
, tdficatians. There is a Samuel RAMOS wo was listed in 1918 as
: Rector of the School of ica cs dtc! of the University.

pai that the address mentioned-is occupied
SALGO Burger, allegedly of French
bar dimarte parlor. ‘Thies is caifirmed in

co Files of this office indicate an ODEIVI report that ons Renee
SALGO was a renber of the Hungarian club EXUHA in 1951. Tho files
@leo show that one Alejaniro BURGER was a menber of the club and
- that he and Renee lived at the same address. The file further shows
Leal ee ee eee eee



kh, Further investigations of the SAL00s
nemo, together with that of RAMOS, included in our CE suspects list.



From; Yaiteo ose

‘ofpages: 8 . 2
pce pints ders
‘Distribution: 7 :

By copy to: $ = seaaqcartere :
Bo Files

os Forvarded herewith is the first ie proposed series of ponthly reports ‘on Soviet
Comercial activities ir Yexico City, Source LIFEAT-has since December 2955 =
89 much more irforzation on this subject than ever before, that. this

“Thie ‘ntesel Feport contains 2036 Fa anaes
«the Soviet comereta office. in Hexico forbes ‘guience



country
* supyect:
: eat Tei -
DATE ACQUIRED: Saco

s PATE OF REPORT: § Harch fn

_The phone nunber of’ the’czmercial office 1s 15=12-€4, The comercial office\vas"
forserly located in the Soviet. Extassyy ain building at Tucubaya 204, Dre to"
expansion of activities, additional personnel, and the resultant need for greater
operating space; .the o: was noved in Spril 1355 to its present: address,

rin

«Me fessor

“A. Soxercials

ar pusinior, Leonid “garovich, Dipondpomercian Coiinsalor, sine sepuanter use,
onatic Passzor+ = 04300
: Rosidence - Celle General loon 82 ~= epemnttes Ae ati
naineneie “Phone = 15-12-56
i Arrived to-Hexico, 3 snipe 2954, accompanied, arygte’s sari Sergeyera -
ay aren te TSR

SEI; Aleksot
Lt geri

+ Afrited 4p Yoxteo,.20 Kared-19547 ehcp wife Zoya Ivanoyna, and sons ,
ur, (4) respestively.

. (s) r xatro!, patscrten, awployes-tomer ial Office,
one Service passport + 1205]
Residence - Tesaulipas 225?
Phéné = Honea Know
* Epeived tn Verscras 25 January 1958, accorpanitd by wife Anastasiza and-sons
‘Igor. a Aleksandr, aged eight (8) and four (4) respectively.”

(CEtrornen), tiktor itolsyerich, Epleyve-Commrcial oztice, :
Service passport’



Phope = sone : -
Asrived in Yexico 8 ep as, acconpanted ty vite: “brett, ‘and dacghter *
sia

Be asia . Cinead lb m0 bwetces be Ue Metin 2

962) 3) *foreva, Valentina Ivanovna, Secretary-Typist since Decesber 1954, does not -
AQ” work full*tine here (believed that eOmercial office has @ branch in the
Enbassy and tat LOICVA works tieré.-too), a

Arrived in Yexico vay’ 1981, with husband ‘and dazghter Galina neo unknown
(4uaband is 3rd Secrotary-Consul, )." : a .

ee Saxin Petroma,. part tine translator forrray atice May oF
Passport =
1+ Residence =. evo. Leoti 1886
Phone < 12-35-67”
~arrived April 1954 with. tiusdand and sch sorted a age uae « (trusband -
“"diplonat-- and Secretary, Cultural Attache),

’ viadexet oF soviet epee, oncayzario SINCE 19491-

“Kea ILaY y Mist Kuasdich, ‘vas Comercial Offiedr froa ‘Korenser 1949 fo 26 Noveaher
Ay part of the tine der Comercial Comsollor KVDIN, ince departed,

Sfwrwvsxt,! Alert Danttovich, ‘went sesieed a break-in period in adxinistrative: ant
separations Toutines from Hargh 1994, ta Septesber 1954, vith SAYOILOY still .- -
Roninally "in charge ar
BOLSZAKOY, Leonid Ivanovich, appeared in Sopteaber. 3s, and iso went through a
*" siafler breakein’ period ‘until 14 Noveaber 1954, when SMOIIDV left, Frou 1
* domes 1954, to, date, BOLSAAKOY hao been’ dn complete charge of te Comer
1600. “ :

smestevustres AND. cs OF THE COMBRCTAL OFMICE:
"ng main efforts of ‘the Soviet Cormerctas! Office as evidenced by ite past and
current setivities are as ‘followss. 2

a daterstned effort to inf rate into Vextean industry and trac
ntrodsesion and d=plenentation of transactions, narantagerss t0 ‘teal Dicey :



@ Coordination wiih
books, and other propiaanas csatertal, &

"af'y) Uttliration of Maxlea. 0%
ries

s ee - : : tect
~ Ta order to attain econoked objectives in Mexico, the Scviets utilize various

nethods, According tovobservations rade about past and curfent activities, ast
_» Of thon full under two headings, which everlap., These aror,”, -

(2) Extensive use of local ‘business contacts, Saeeacy reve & ae

42) Cultivation of key people in yarlous-organtzations vhich can be easy sed as
propagands dutleta (1.¢0, filas and revspapers) or as rore conventional ~
contacts (banks and eustons ond

“Sot out bolov 4s a iisting of the contacts nade by the Soviet Comereiz: Office
. during Docenbor 1955, togother with details as to the nature of these contecta,
and the transactions made or proposed vith trea,

Be It 4s known.that the Soviets must pare
Mexican filns; in order to be able to-sel2 and exibit, theirs here,
wea consulted several ‘tines durirg the nont ff Lecesber 1945, on fils cree
~ curenont, +On°) becester 1985, MATEST TIA 2 Personnel), consulzod
__; BANDERA in reference to having BA=2A procure d certain fils on tins, 20
srnrirem ioe that’ a contract could ¥e signed. to BOLSHAYCT"s absence on « trip (ces
H-A~-4109, pp. 255,4,. 6 § Pobreary, 1956), MATEVSKI wished to have the contract
- 8igned before 1 January 19:

n"20_Datesbsr 1955, BOLSHUKOY coaéalted BANDSUA.of inn ae the Mexican {11a
Raices" could be acquired, BANIETA explained that Cizox (a fila cex-any

controlled this filz, but arranged @ nesting for SOLSIAKOY vith tae direc

ef Cinox, for on 2 Decenver 1955, =

eg NGauvin is are MrT Hive, Whe.

Ricina Filns De Mexico $4
Ber torelos t3:208-5i0-3-5-
‘Phones: pL 46, 55-98-04,

‘eure sppeare Xe be'a very. important contact for the Soviets in the eo.
raination of various factore, Asdording te infornation received, he is wiry



othing out custoxs
Robben ed for favorable puolie <7 fo Soviet fil=s, and is:
e, Soviat filra4.,.sovnere'in Hexico taside int
“the capital, = to ora report, is the sole exiibiter of

- Soviet filns in rexteo.

*, Qn 1 Decesber 1853,. "ATETS Consulted CAL YET about adse booke which be
CATSISEI) wished sont to the Soviet Export Fila Office, haves 1

on 3 Decenter 1
| Mitherawal apzzova!

‘On 17 Decesber 1255, Se an‘adainistrative

ference’ to possible r.
CALVET of new Soviet ‘that the only i:fornaticn
he had, had been given 4g VAYEVSKI a few days back,

on 17 Decesbor 2955, 42 Wag ascertained that, BOLSHAKCY had boon shew parts °
of the filns and tities of Soviet pictures, as.revised far showing in Nexto.
rtajned that + Plana! wore afoot to, inaugurate Soviet fila
The Teatro Ideal 4s alleged to have 160

: os 7
MATZISKI repeavedly told CALYET that’ he was interssted tn ,ebtatntng showings”
for the Soviet filns, *Romo y Julieta," and "Gran Faxiita.*

70n.17 Decesber 1955, 0POY, Yevgeni MikhatJovien, 3rd_Secre’ of the Sortst
kad cALTeT through MAYEVSKT to, give-certain Flas to the Soviet
«

5 : : ‘See! SeeLeaag Blew
“arpengewwnts vate sade for FOFOV WAN, Leonta Yiinalievich, “st ———
Secretary in the E-bassy, to pick up\sore filns.» Avong those obtained vere -
“Oran a Factite,* Rome. y Julista,* end the "Golden Antelope." . ;

‘On 30 Decenber 1955, | the Soviet Embassy was notified ‘by the Mexicen Governmans
that poraissica bed been received for showing certain fins, ‘bat not for

evant publishing and’ bookseiling ‘shop|has.boen nated as
ats res pares Tés two mariagers, Jesu
Bevel Argel, fasaiez, are both Commnist Party mexbera, Over tho yci
have. imported’ a steady though relatively exill anount of Sivist atonal,

In gonorai, contact: detveen the Editorial Popular and ‘the ‘Soriat Comsretal
Office taxes place through LAZCANO and asQuEz on the.one 0 handand Twtoy and *
MAYEVSHT on the other,.



ee ee .
Jet was ascorteo4 that tn Deceber 1955, the
copies of two vaxin Gorit!s works, their tt
Spanisa being “Los Sarta rons and PHL Snfanci

ao Garsasto (SAcgiaaz0) sépres, Juan
ral Manager of Exzortadora De Puolic

Av, De La Granias 22 wy
+ Phones 27-46-57

contacted om 16 Decesber 1955, snd Teportedy tena”

ir with the electrodes would fave to be pos:

(EISEAZE=G'8) otekress, Th

electrodé tfansecticn was connected vith the visit-to Memeo of two

ring experts (Comonts See MMAAID, 77. 2u4, § Fad: Ye

's known to be conaidering a deal wita tre Soviets ta egriesite seal
machinery) and to be participacing in 6 trade apreevest wita tae frech

Governegt in cotton, EISZVBEZ3 has, been noted in ccnwctica with Crech
Comercial activities ‘i 7

Fomed
COMZALSZ 4s @ frequen\ contact of tne Sortet.bos assy: tomeretes aia an
their actual and ial cover a racner wide raz

° AS Batted paper : Mt

_ Bariy tn Dececber covZAsz and YAYEVSEI disecesed the prospects fcr 4
ing Soviet pipe and standard gauge railvay rails into Mexico, It is
‘ed that the xarket for reiis in Mexico tas“Ezt considered to be very
erie bat che cartes beljeved they might be able to arrange sone sales in

i
ie
hae

1

eh eset einai te BNA

fascia ese as that the Yatarasio Andusteialcoston ta Bradt tad
1, dorght sufficient petroletn (from outside the Scvist crbit) to cover its

* needs for four ronths,. but would need rore wian the above tina expire?, “"-
© Mara=azz0 asked ce an estinate onsabort 1s-20,000 tons of Soviet peirclem
4 Cormiader in about 100, er drow brea beats

= 7 ‘ ae Ces

“comeaiez ssforind SOLSFANGY that a US Cima nased PASSIONS & WoEATWOTy atated
, fe row wiy OCNZALES was sellirg cellulose to Brasil, tnd Farther wisied to



Lae oe
prices ca ¢

reported Yr XNZAEZ ¢:
seal in ecrver (no ¢e"

ty Wood ahd ie ceed! for a fastery and exutpee
“probably savtin cachinay,

PEREZ was wieited twice in recesber'le08; ty MAT

$
“fam eqeipect, te.) egriccitiral sahiiery) wich as initia



i
{

«Ye te ‘reported that view
(great noutfseations ita “a

Sg pan narod ZELL1%%
anong'then bgings : a

Tea) Alkalines and AleaYotess, ZELLER sought ieforsatien‘on establishing.
Lealines, It is bedieved that tais dea] zay be well ac
ZELLL.GEA expressed a need“for araiolds ard for a.s
for this. It te reported that KLSAKCY irformed
vachine or infcr-ation on the nichine had alreacy teen sent, end that

ZLLIVGER bad an excelent, nechanie vith General Hiectrie ezperience to :

“ insted. this machines : : : A i

has vario.3 deals discussion with the Soviets,.

y Sadions ZELLIVOER claimed to tave a sarnt f

these not be inported fully assented. The
information on parte, aszerbly, details and bly
+ desirable to import and assexble tre radios In conjunction with
thin ZEILISCER Clained to have e:rarket for : .

“ ~€)-Dritis ‘traspeettied type)s It ig rezorted. that Bu
@ transaction for fe,200 vorth of ‘drills (ZZLLIL 22
eee _ sith ZOTAR, see belev),

OER vas involvod in
Feportedly ec:sacted

*) Medicines: It vas ascertained that ZELLIN-E2 hed presented a st of
nedicines most widoly used in Mexico. TELLIER accrdirg to reports, hed
stated that he cquid seii as quch of the nedicir:

8 could be provided
hia, 2 the JSaRe- oa 2
f) dazerees ~ ices reported that. apezicet ciairad
CiIK,"Abrahan 4 ape
Tou

a8 18S Regea

zotix appears Yo be ‘both 8 indo
Other business-wn dealing, vith the v32R,° It was agcertatned that rost of ©
TOTWcK's transactions during the menth of Decexter concernsd dyes. Accorde
ing to information gathered, delay cn shiprant of esveral typ:s of (ro
specified) dyes, was caused by the wait fer eLetter of Credit, “Direct

_ ‘Violet K dye, for which a Letter of Sredit vas cpered on or. abot $0 I
‘1995, was not-sent evidently due tq shertage of eens, it was riporsd-that:

+ the Soviet Comercial Office “stated that, according to & contrast dated 29

Octoter 1955, all the dy re plexed and salting ehiprant fron en wine

ide ar

a and internotiary for



* 2) coffee: 3:15:
(Cote:

port ofex 4 It wa
for certain ¢yes, bs
_ ‘tine tack to 503

dacked snforsaticn en now re was teargees

_——~ herb vas also sce trief information to tre effect thas ZLOTNIK had give

wan order for’ twols.

2) Dyess Confirmaticn received
Violet dyes.

tory that arLatin Anerican couttry”
Clatned te Soviet <nion was"offerirg doluare for that eousry's

7 Fil ie ‘interested in the TV, marceg tn Mexicos,

Inforsation on cortatn contacts 1s rather vagus but it vas ascertained thet the
Soviet Comercial Office had Guxtirgs with the following in Lea See the
exact nature of ‘vaieh was not clears. i

2 *ARCIN, Francisco, a mesper of te rae eo Vigilancia (Part ote roxdean
joc Sal. Security), “+

ROTA Vidal; Raul, was ae ty woLsiasorairting - the month of Decorber™
5, with infornaticn that certain raterial was in readiness: for GICIA,

It has not been ascertained exactly what GACIAS

Sovigt Comercial -o:



METER et SEC eh EN ce

cob bGRET

10 hes, DATE —3L.October 1085 |

1 EB
Avtar stiven a, Robaga pein SUDA
FROM Chief of Station, Vicans -
(oe Operaticusl/ EPIC .
‘SPECIFIC Identifications from E20cer katen eee

pair al : ]

the Viems Gtation erllectisa
waa to eke L3 idctificsticns {rca this
9 by nao and preition, cor culy ty function, Ino fev ime

etarces, 09 indicated specifically below, bia ideatifieaticas rare exrezeozs,
tat aro roastholese forwarded on the assicption that even this fact aill be of
interest to yous

2. & totel of tranty-ons (21) eeparats PLotocrephs, c= of thes aarely

cottons cat out of the ort;inol enlerrenmta, ere acct a9 en ectaci=mt to
this dicratch, Persors identificd by 2 indiestcd ea ty a beay
++ ~~ black inked circle around their beads; 18.6 escarate circle to tho cite, ern

- Gom9 Sestances ebove the circle surrounding thcir heeds, ero tha ncsere Keyed
to the ist in Faregreph 3 bolos. In tho cvcat yeu bave clfsicalty éscipsaring
‘the maxboro inkod in en the front of tha photon, you may refer to ths zoveres
#ida, ea which you will ficd ths eaze mudora in crprozizately tho saxo posi
thens. Ts tavo just comploted transatssion of al) Seeativas Of tho piotes repre
cented in the ettechont. Froa rogatavos, it till te posoible fer raat

to. mip individual blowpe of ths parconalities i¢-atificd ty

for the erpropriate Bashington files. Aa you cro‘elres¢y cxoro, ths r=Deriey
eystea used cn thoce negatives is that. covirod ty tho bois Foote Crotica, watch
‘as responsible for taxing the photes. For tho six ciffercat mctcuse repre-
essted in tho attached photes, the following ere ths pertinent referewsae

a, Geries 9954: Austria va. Qernany, Fell 1952. Kegativas rene.
* mitted fin EAVA~12175, 25 Octoder 1955.

be Series MFR S261 Acstria vo. Portal, 27 septarber 1993. Bogs
tives tronsaitted in EAVA-12164, 25 Ooteder 1955.

Ssries WYR 532t Austria yo. Hurcory, 12 october cecal agate :
~ transnitted in ZAVA-12183, S October 195k. ee.



Z Loh site
Fags 2.

gre

@& Cortos KB 582s Acstrio va. Mmmary, 1 ea sso Bagativos
_ trencattted in ELVA~12105, 35 Oatoder 19950

@» Gsrics GA 63le Tyeme Lsaccw vo. Austria Rapid, 20 galy 195k.
vocatives tronsaitted in EAVi-12109, 25 Gotobdar 1955,

° | fe Garden IR 6531 tustria v1, Tucsclavis, 3 October 19S. Bags
tives teensmittod in EAVA-12195, 3 Cotober 1955. |

3. The follewing are sontatieations, tha photo couber(s)
from which the idsntifications were este, ond the Adantifieation mbare

| Ortgtzs.
Basser Foto Foe Identificstion end Ctatic
Beer Bate ro.

QQ) WR 526/68 (£02); AZarOTs keting Culof of
parture of EXTVOC UM axa ez ty QTC.
Comments thie acas given @://"0xoPO7? 4a

we 631/14 ope. Gqueg, Assrortex Sarena, Aoting Chief of £/0
Accounting Gaotion. F

‘FR 526/8 = Ivan Alez=: sgoncthicsnt, Lohehtvals of Go
Orgeniasticn, A/O EXEL.’ Wale ddenti=
~~ Sfeation very eeertai, *

ure 562/8 - (tnayfiaroa, Chief of Duvemesgiowbteting,

WAR 63/16 - Feotor Litofe EARAHOY, Chief Engtacer
z of 4/0 KALIL.

wR 526/5 _ By toviet snteliipeses offioar xadar £7 cover.
toments epperently f/u, incivic-al mnldicg
Foso in mans of W.! vynsor

” "mye $82/8 Mexanter Fotrorial raxma7, FSU sapro-
eastative industria ~

“wm $02/8 (tayo, omeretetirectes of HL”
A/o Fontoici. :

mR 65/4

Cication off LF TEV 89 Deyoty
Chief, oUF (ea) CYED, CF Bota

We 631/18) careet Hcleyeried pmaizoy, canarei-Direoter
‘WR 653/9 ) of (USIA) Bienano-~Gehukers I. ie



qa)

(2)

3)
(2h)

QS)
(26)

7)

(ocntimed)
Criginal
User Este Foe

“HR 582/45,

oe
WYR 653/17) of USIk.

we $82/4 Gregori Alexntrovich/NLUT, Beoretary ef th
Aisation, Ullis « : nt
= babel (fra TAvaTE7, staan Seo et i. Goma

_ sl

i Esti-12223

Stcpey esaea Peas De

Udgabitiorticn end Ebition Comenty

Ha 653/9 (nyyeoom, Goneral-Directer ef (0213)
ram 582/4) soreet Tosityertctfeunary, omcratpirester of

waB $32/6 (WIA) B/o HATTL, and his ulfos
Ha ow) ‘

petr Aaron, oaer cet.

(gaifrcuma, Lceibnser ote of fom)
Flensrelsscle

officer of tha Austria Creeps Bix] feciécttetes

Mexeadar Ive TISYLE¥s peas of ths Firmes
Sootica, 4/0 EAESLe

creo, masher af the Gomareiel C2t~
ton, A/0 EXEshe

Meranése tvenoviet iauniny,, Ganaral-Disester
ef (UGTA) Erom-Boveri.

Anatoly Kirtlovich /inumio, socend Deputy-Cuics -

EPR 631/18

wR 631/14)
we 653/27

wR 653/17

WR 631/16

WFR 582/8 renifrocs, Aostrica intorprcter ot ths
Soviet Information Cater, allecsdly ea E19

agente

- Bane reported

ee Corcayert Nh eccistsaS ik ros
pany Lid elitecze 6. i ewer
reqlaeca ve re oousay, offi

ory Goup, in latter's cover posktsons |
Sgompiien that be 10 1d, tiersfore,
coon

widivmn, 1 drotrion doterproter 4 ia tha got



wa 653/3
wR $82/5)
wa 65/3)
BPE 63/1

wyR 562/6,

rr | mameagezy
sicrel few?

Idantificatica en Rtatien Comm:
Los Seeds Trazoviel Jo KD Cifticor
ica covers Cte (22) a

Bo. 25 clirirstedy firs iemetties ty
a2 OxDc07, loter emaased te A204. |

(eon Kecccamen, Cxtof Bootiooper “ (cara)

Tovgant Arceatiyericy four, eo
of ¢a uncpecitiod
‘TEXEIL

Grogerdy Ivano
A/0. AEE

cpa nina, Ou of rere i

WD, eo colteaps of (fra) GEIST, ‘Kas 9 adoTs.
fomite this inciviccal 4a, ef ecursa, Tria Te
OY, Cact, Wicca Drtact=mt, OVE,

and CEUISEV's inediate:evscrlore

(eeapf Ecc, eaer of the bviet trode :
Dalognsica ia Viewa. Crm Tip in nem of

WAR 63/14) Boction, 4/0 EAST ,

Fecorovtets a Gtat, Comrcial

‘EXILS, Acstrica chief of!
(SSTA) AD Oates ,

: regent ence, er tte
Frodunticn Cactica, A/O Kinzle

(teasforeaccy, Celera Eafesent, WDNe
Ancorrests L772 10 Ess dersriesed this Es
Yvon IGG ef tho ELD Rosiesmturae’

(eeufrepasom, eo ‘(coma)

» Eabplat savie! voces, Chit, Procuation

Section, 4/0



ean ‘ 7%
“SECRET. Baye

Oripicad »
Bow 52. identification end ftstion Soraate

“wy 62 Esrusoy, vepaty toftesrominy, cro
on” meng olin ary sfiaas

(39) EPR 502/10 Sarcmt A! y, ) ccordizatsr of foriet
econonte ntorpricee in Austris.

(uO), WR 653/9 «HU, Catef, Commoreial Boction, (UEIA) Biaume-
7 Gobrakart Io 7

(ia) WR S82/4 WU, bocttacper 1a Soviet inlatary Paps.

(2) mene 2a Leto on repefeentstie

03) . MPR SO2/a WO, bortes Canara biestor of (03tA) Balfra

un aya 532/12 WU, froqueatly esen with ¥. I. KIECECY, £3

: officer tater WIA cover (ef. E3. 23 eboto).

~* he Binge the Viems Station hes edsqzste copdos of phstcgrarts ef the
few in*iviccale of current interest to Vicuza econg these i*mtification,

Sirtetiy TIA poreomel tains of uo fertior interest to cap tha eciaiked oo
for Beatguartere uso and files. io further ecrvicing of thea 19 reqcired tore.

Attachsnstar 21. photographs
pra “ele dabayd



‘ 3s Visa 205
pas osc apes Tttent ev
-% Tarek on) hay

“Lesley corzeywrich
nf beet, id believed

E ‘usay in 'e3100 city. -@
re priate as it as “ot A Dobie
to cae are.

otf the
a are’ eal,

‘ales 6 hotogram of
There is a strixing rése-blanog betaeon
horbaitte atdeeitue iF te a uch olor am,

iva opted, The cety tease fourtdias. 2. 5
reranied iforaition vides ae abel

a
he te inf Faation


a

§
oy

li £

ae prereonttve ty Froatning Cosmmnten to tha f
theoe peony pricste f

petary end ack Rin vhet tho Party mircirns in the area ere
Tor poor oases rig ote Se

6 MM zion, {6 besoning s tool of the Commis, ~~
70: the O58 eince noel of tne’ alcer, prieste ef the s3 cmereticn, —

Pin

Tould bare foun decmenton, bave éled eff ar have ees parsed and
younrar priests, whe dave replaced aey are completely ésnunated
Comambet, Party infleence, 2

y



DEGCIOR RCT Cem :

COUNTRY Ur53/inotris
SUAKCT —foviet Persom)ition dn OSIA

NO.OF PAG?S 16

DATE OF INFORMATION Up to Deconber 1954 “REFERENCES: Rt~2805
Yereany

THIS S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Follovirg sre biographic stotobes of USIA Soviet personalities kzov to ccurcs. Por
further inforsation an tts datics of these individuals, ssa‘ tho atove referenced



2 OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Accountant an
2 POR: Unknown to. source

POSTPIGH: Acting Chief of 20 Accounting Section c: A/O Kabel, USIA ©

Bic. lesea, | WEs c. Ge kg. = BUILD: Thir BAIR: Terk Brg, Unknown
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISEICS: Thin, sharp nc-e and face :
FERIOWAL HISTORY: Married 7 :

EXPONENT; WILITPRY RSCCRD: Worked as Chief Accountant of tha “Aebost® Trust in tho
city of Asvent in the Urale, WSR, prior to coming te Austria in February 1954, Source knew
suing of hie ailitary record,

PARTY AFFILIATION; POLITICAL OATEWTATICN: A CP somber although not active
a] HORARES: A careerist, subservient to superiors, urprincipled in catters pertaining to vers

BASIS OF INFO: Acquainted through work from DATE OP Inyo: Deceaber 1954
February to Deceaber 1954. . é

ANDRGIOV, Ivan Aleksandrovich’ BONER 08 RATE:

't Russian 4

BOs ¢. 1925

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: - Unknovn to source ieee eee
“B03 Unknown, puns

POSITION: General Director of the Osran Plant subordirate to A/O Kabel, sh

EP: c.lésea, | WE 6. kg. BUIED: Stout BAIR: Bask BYES:

OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Kone trat vere outetanding

FERSQUAL HISTORY: Unknow

EXPLOYRENT; MILITARY RECORD: Unknow

PARTY APPILIATICAs POLITICAL GAIENPATIONs An active CP ecatar; he we the sccrotary of
Party orgenisation for 4/0 Eabal, USIA,
A otipld individuals tlindly carried out the orders of bad bie end bie scpericre
Ot vork without reflection

DASTS OF FOr een through work froa BASE 0” 701 Deceaber 1954
etrusry 195} to Deceaber 1954 :



|FERSGEAL RISTCAY: Married | 3

i : eae Ss
: ; : : =,
e SSPLONESPs MILITEAY FOCCHD: Prior to conics to dustsia tn tarch 1924, be verted as cuter | Bi
ef th: Lycipasat [<parteant of tha Chief Directorate of Electrical Kachin Tuilding, Rinistry a:

re Rectricti Letssiry {Otdal Goor=dovantys, Glavncgo Upravientya Elcztramentno - Stroyectya,  &:
lextrepronyehiennosti), Kilitary record unknown to ecurce. =:

PLEEY AFFILIATIGA] FOLIPICAL GALITARICHS CP costo, very cotive Comuntet is

SUCRET
+

| RAKE: becom, Miksail Vastlyevien  ") gangs oa nanks

Dor 8. 1915

+ OCCUPATIGHAL SFECIALTY: A comercial epectaliot

2031 Unknown ty onurce |

nee net nen BARE

POSFFICA: Chief of the Suppi, end Sales Office of A/O Sabel, USIA -

WE cutee. WE: oc. ty kg. «BUILD: Short, BATH) ‘Light = BYES: ako to
edit a eosres

OTEZR PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTIC31 Roun? “Russlan‘ face, He voars glassee vith zata. france.

FERSOMPL HISTORY: riorrie:; te gredinted froa the Acadeay of Foreign Trade (akadestya
3. Yuortney Torgovii)in Moscow $3 194t or 1947,

« EMPLOYKEN?; HOLITARY RECORD: Unknovn to murce

"ARTY APPILIATICH; POLITICAL CRIENTATICH1 CP sender; active Communist

‘NM pasts op repo: scqainted througn vork. - =| DATB OP DMG: December 1954

4 masz: | ususcr, Pédor Bikiforovich - - BSGREE OR RAE:

3

S| marroaanrry: aseeten :
“ROBE: 1905-19108 we

=| eccurserons SPECIALITY: “Hiecwieal engineer (Iestesor-alektrik) ~~
FO: Unknown

POSITION: Deputy Cirector and Chief Engineer of 4/0 Fabel, USIA | :
| Ps 17-174 cm. Ws c. 93 be. BUILD: Quite stout EAIR: Blond BYES: tira
{OTHER FEYSICAL CHAPACTEAISTIC3: Full fece : Saeeeee

2 A very good enginoer; favas before his superiors in.en effort to advance hirsalf
furtter. Boss rot treat subordinates fairly. i :

APLATUAE ann

13 OF DO: dpyitent rss we fron DAEZ GP DVO: Decenbar 1954 |
Fareh to decanter 1‘ ¢


wares cere, Sergey Nikolayevich ,

BATIONLITY: Russian
1 192.
Thectrieal engineer cSt sal

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY:
POB:

General. Director cf Sievene Semkert I, plant eubordina te to 4/0 Kabel
BUILD: This. HAYA Light ‘BYES; Uncnowm

» (Bra

; POSITION:
j sea, WE: ec, E85 kg.

OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Kone
FERSOKAL HISTORY: Unicom

ERPLOYKENT; HILITARY RECORD: Wao forserly Chief of Personnel Section of A/O Ratel out
red t present peeition
Not a Party ssator

PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL CRIENTATION:
: Was frequently {12 vith sons sort.

| REMARKS: Good engineer, honest, ard a thorough vorker.
of etomen ellment.
BASIS OF INFO: Acquainted through work BATB-OP DO; December 1954

es nana: Krevaseito, (fou) ” DSGREB OR have:
HAPIOWALITY: Rusotan 2 ces ;
POds ¢. 1923
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: . pontine ee eng oe
4 : — POBt Crknova
Meater of Production Section of A/O Kabel, USIA
vrs BUILD: Hediua HAIR: ‘Thick, red BYES:
Full Bussion face; voare reading glasses

POSITION:
Uninown :

Ett c, 160 ca.
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS:

18 OP WIPO: Acquainted through vork

werioNs

APEATURE GARD REPROD



SECRET,
oo

Bi | SLaDKLY, Forgey Vasilyovich ; DEGREE OR RANK:

ESMATIONALITY:

p Br 6.199 5
{DCCUPAT“ONAL SPECIALTY: N-chanical engineer (Int wrer-sekhantic) ”
rH POBs Unknovn

hos reroa: General Director of A/O Kavel, (SIA

FR: 173-175 ea, WPs oc. 05 ag. BUILD: Stout HAIR: Dora, ulond,gypg; Unknown
tei pertially tale

1
# PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Full face, Austisiae haircut.
PERSONAL HISTORY: Married

it

af

*EXPLOYMENT; MILITARY RECOAD: Frior vs World War IT worked as © piant cirector tn Leningrad.
After the vir te-worked in East Sermny 6 director. of « UFIG plant. Cane to dustria in January

or Feurssry 1954. fource had ro informtion about his silitary record,

5
{PARTY APPILTATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: <P ceater, devoted Cosmuntet to point of
foraticisa

43 3 Very dull person, rough, uncultursd, poorly educated, Spence Russian Like « esuntry

euabli. 2 2 : a

IS OF INPO: © Acquainted trrough work from DATE OF DIFO: Deceaber 1954
‘Jarsery or Feuruary = Decerver 1954 '

ricearenpae

GHTICHIN, Petr Alekeandrovich .
: — Rupolan
CUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknown

ITION: Chief of USIA

yr: c. 17% em WT. 5 tg. © BUELD1 Thin © BAIR: Tricky,
io PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Wore glasses for reading |
HE ABRSOKAL HISTORY: Unknown : :

ee.

AYPILIATION ; POLITICAL CRIENTATIOH#: CP neaber, active Conmniot

3 & very cospotent chief, had reputation Of being honest and fair; intelligent, we
| Generally quict, never shouted at subordinates:

1S OP DMPO: Acquainted trough work :

AND REPRODUCTIONS!

aesaTune oanp



! ‘ergey Ivanovics:
NATIONALITY: Russia:
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: fiectrion. orgineer

p POSITION: General Director a! Wierer Kavei arc Arisane plarts eutorcirate to 4/0 Late. USL

© ‘15 ea, Tr oc. tO ag BUILD: ni. BAIR: Derk BYES: Uranown

PERSOKAL HISTORY: Unarwr co rource

SE RWPLOYMENT; MILITARY RECORD: 9 s-raec aes plant clrector for UFIG tn feet Gormuy before

Br costing + Asetrin in Leceaver 92 Pat tAry recore unksow

ee :
} PARTY APFILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: 4:. active CP seater:

Honeet, © goa tecnica: epectaltet

BASIS OF INFO: Aczusintec tnroign work

A ith etaaaihl Rass

joecuEnzeues SPECIALITY: Firarciel specialiet ©
“+ POBs Unknown to source

4 ed :
|} POSITION: Grief of the Financial Section, of A/O Kabel, USIA
i : E

UP: oc. €9 Be. BUILD: Thin BAIR: Dark BYSS1 Uncown
SSLOTHER PHYSICAL CUARACTERISTICSs Hancned shoulders, thin facé, straight nase; voars

ees. Hir right rand nie no index ant aldcle fingers up td the seczad joint.
BISTORY: Marriec ities : para :

a

.

EMPLOYHENT; MILITARY RECORD: Uninown to source

PARTY AFPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIBNTARION: ACP moaber tut not active
3 Lieo to crink anc was often drunk; considered a cultured, decent fellov wn wai

well -Liket E

T]P8918 OF TARO: Acquainted thrust work from”
February 1953 vo beceaver 1%. -

EALLRS phan peratstatis



ACUYLOV, Ivan Stapapovich
WATIGHALITZ: Russian
¢./1908

Do:
J: OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Electrical ongineer {Inshonor-oloxtrik)
“ RODE Unknown.

}

, POSTPICH: Goneral Directs: of Stesens Schukert TI, plant puvertingte to a/O Fabel, USIA
4 BT: ¢. les ca! UT oc. 69 kg. BUILD: Thin BAIR: Light EYES: Usknown
| OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Hone that wre suatanding
A pansowat utstORY: sexo
EAPLOWGNT; HELITARY RECORD: Worked as « pla:-t cirector for USIG in East Germany before
com, © sustria in July 1954. Military record unknown
4 PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL CRIENTATICG: An active CP snsber
RERARES: A ecoundrel, very tzpucent to equale and sucordinates; typieal careerist

BASIS OP INFO: Acqusinted througn work DATE QP DIPO: Decesber 1954

BARB: ( RUPKOV, Alekeancr Ivenovieb
HATI ITY: Rueslen
{OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknown ~.-—~.

\POSETION: General Director cf the Broun Boveri plant subordinate to 4/0 Kabel, (SIA
“oHPs oe. sen, MPs ce. 75 kg. BUILD: Modus HAIR: perk BYES:

‘OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: one that vore autetanding,

FERSOWAL BISTORY: Uninova : :

ARTY AFPILIATIGN; POLIPICAL CRIEWEATYO: An active CP cesbor

2 a big careerist who bas no coavictions, He vould vork-as reedily for eny party
‘thst bnppened to be in pover. : :

IB OF DIPOs Acquainted through vork since ° DAES OF DiyOr Decesber 1954 °
| Semuary.1953, vhen source cane to Austria, ieee ee

te
{
7

reieerecti..



nara. Faure, Anatoliy Kirllovich DEGREB OA RANK:
ATIONALITY: Vcrainten : :

Doar ¢. 1903 |
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Corsorciel epecteliat f

POBs Unknow >. :

POSITION: Second Deputy Chie’ of USIA, responrivle for enazercial and financial rattors

RE eiiee on. Ws. 10) ky. | BUILD: Hoavy-ret HAIR: Blond, brush-SYES: Oncown
4 é + cut, slightly receding iirli:
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Wide shoulders, athletic build, full Ukreinian fo:

| PBRSONAL HISTORY: Graduate of the Acedeay of Fore!gn Trade in Koecow

4 BHPLOYIGNT; MULITARY RECOK): Cane to USIA in beginning of 1954 froa East Germany viere |
be worked for USIG, presumably ino einilar capacity; silitary record unksown to source.

an PARTY APPILIATIOU; POLITICAL ORIBNTATION: Active CP seaber

| NBHARKS: Very crzpetont vorker, Mmvovor very stubborn; vell thought of by his eupericre
3 2 7

_ 7
“DATE OP TUFOr Decoaber 1954 7?

vA

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Party worker
-

POSITION: Hoac sf the Soviet Coamniet organisation in USIA
Sums e. 170 ca, © WEs Unknow © BUILD! Mediua | HATR: Brown
AoTKER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: None ;
SPBRSOMAL HISTORY: Unknown

probe eat San at Ficbepineli rend from bebe’ ‘to Vienna about! the end of 1953 or the”
: if amen

"ARTY AFFILIATION; POLITICAL ORIEWPATLOH: Forty saaber, dovoted Commatet

chao aLpncisienis

wraatune



NAHE:
WATIONALITE: —hurrsa:. :
DoB1 ec. 199:

OCCUPATIONAL SFECIALTY: believed tw ve an econc alee
POR: Uniaow.

fae pean on a

Sb, POSITION: Jalef of 2Sid Labor and Wage fection
RR: os. 12: ea. WPs ce. tly. BUILD: Slemer
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: vs.

St! PERSONA HISTORY: Jagan
BNPLOVIGNT; RELITARY RECORD: cane feos Wovens to Austria 1n the sumer of 195): replaces

TERS. Siar, reson. up Undn to Fource.
PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: Active cP seser

REMARKS: lazy, not very cocpetent in his jou, alveys involves ig intrig.e
BASIS OP INPOs Acjssintec tarougn wore DATB OF DHPO: Deceaver 295.

rgey Atanasjevicn

Senteiitencr sheen

VMATIONALITY:  Karsiane-r seer sto - :
Rt Ds c. 19)
{OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknown =
u : : POBs Unknown
ER| POSITION: Generai birector of the Paul Goers plant suvordinste to 4/0 Kabal, Sls
HT: c. dez ca WE: c..79 kj. BUILD: Thin HAIRY Light) EYES: Untrown
JOTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: None eas, ieee
S PERSONAL HISTORY: Uarinn

.

ENPLOYRENTs HELITARY RECORD: Urknown

D0sTioNg

D BIR

becettful tectvidual: creat “vootd eter vho vould stoop. to any taseness in orver _
to sovance miaeelf or keep out of trouble :

E-CARD

IS OP INFO: Acquaintec
|, Fevruary 1953 wo beceaver 1954

DAE OF DiPO: Deceaber 1954



WRENOV,“ (fru)
't Russian
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: bngincor

| POSITION: Chiof Engineer ant First Deputy Chief of UBIA :
Blond, BYES: Unksovn

BPs c.leOcn,  WEs ec. 60 ks. «BUILD Short, stout
partislly bald in front

OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERIDTICSs Wore glessen

Worked for USIG in East Geraany prior to coaing to SIA ip

| BRPLOYHENT; HILITARY RSCORD:
earl, sirt of 1954, Military record unknowa

PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL CAIDHTATIONs - Very active CP wonder
Had roputation for being « heavy drinker, lasy except in Party works pot vory

competent. in his vork

i Acquainted through vork.,
| setually aot bin only once.

_ (Source, pare OF DITO: October 1954 «

‘narses} LECH, Bikolay Sergeyevich DSORES OA FANE:
‘WATIGUALITY: & ‘ (
Han aie coon BODY 05 1920 2 etme yg Ae sory pS

vorker
POs Lu

iPOSTTIONs Deputy Chief of Personal Section, 4/0 Kabel, USEA, i Ps

: Dark

{for austrian pereonnol {
BUILDistort, thin BA

‘ure c. Moca, WE c EO bg.
JOUER FEYBICAL CUARACEEALOTICS4 “tone tat wore ovtwtanding
Married i

paniee

ar al
SIPLOWECINTs HOLIPARY RECGWD: ad worked in ths Soviet Eabsasy in Poland
Austria in Deconber 1953. Military record unknown
1
AFVILIATIOI3 POLIFICAL OAUGVPATIOIs . Kot an ative a Taber
Deere eee eee oe eee ee

baweaie

annus,

in
far

WE a

eee
1 es
18 OF TPO: Acquainted through work from
FY 1954 t December 195600

artar,

sg


DOB: €. 1892
: FOB! Unksiour |
POSITION: Chief of USI Plansing Section a fs :
: fire .70-175 ca, UP: oc. 60 ky. BUILD: ‘Thin BATA: Grey EYES: Unknown
DINER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Erect posture; lined face; vore pince-nes
HISTORY: Unknow

a MILITARY RESORD: Worked in GUEDZ in Moscow es planning accountant before
<j Coming to Austria about the end of 1953; allitary record unknown

# Cultured, intelligent, very competent epecialiot; gave appesrance of en old Russian
equire, Dreseed very ceatly, vore string tle; vae generally well-liked

IS OF INPO: Acquainted through vork DATE OF INFO: Decesber 1954

. (tna) oe | BOOREB 63 RAE

JABIGHALITY: Rurelan
; " DEBr ¢. 1902 __
ATLOWAL SPECIALITY: Unknowns 5.2! ic.n>

oT" POD: Usknova
ITIOWs Chief of the Labor and Wage Section of A/O Kabel, USIA! 2
3 e.170ca, «Esc. 75 kg. | BUILD: HModius BAIR: Grey BYES:
| PEYSICAL CHARACEIRIDTICS: "one that vore outstanding
, BIBTGAYs Unknown

‘ PAREY AVPILIATIO’s POLITICAL OAIENTATION: A Party asabor but not an sctive Communist
fi :



i
}
}

NARS: (fezate) :
NATI 1 Russian ‘ ce ae
: y : ;

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Socretary-typiot 7 = : eter

om

- POSITION: Secretary to GLADKIT, Crief of 4/0 Keel, UTA
ih ce. ith em, «Esc. $0.g. «© BUILD: «Thin. HAMM s Dlleck, stort, YES1 Unknow
PHYSICAL, CHARACTERISTICS: Long noeo, this face stays

* FERSOHAL BISTORY: Unknova : :

ak oie Ar ee

“saeconeerts MILITARY RS“ORD: Uscrown

aa

PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL OAIENTATIC’: Beta Party seater

wulet, serious, hard-vorkirg girl, pleasant to everyone oenaa to be quite
nt fhe did nat Mike her boee, thought he we stupid, anc stated ae mich to source,

vanes

SBASIS OP INFO: Acquaintes through work DATB OP DOs Deceader 1954

PULUCHRIN, (fma}
‘WATICH, 2 Russian
OCCUPATIOWAL SPECIALIYE: Vatewa ---»--

DSGREB OA RADKs

DOBs cc. 1692
FOB) Unknown

VEa ic. 70 kg. ‘pon: Kediua BAD
‘OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Vore glasses

Grey

hed AFPILIATIGs ‘POLITICAL CATEFTARICH Bot a Party nenbor
pEwaRas: Cospetent Sih for wo mungrdiastes
i
1
4


‘SECRET ae!
1 ay

ware (ruzyRev, Grigoriy Ivanzvien i poaRts, i RAE

Dons c. 2912
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: tereonnel worker, believed ty rourco to.be MGB (KGS) worker
POBs - Unknown to source

{ FOSITIOW: Catef of Fersocre! Sectian of 4/0 Fabel, JP's

SEUMBr 16 cts ea, Wr e, 7 kg. BUILDI Heavy EATRa Kee vith Wal@ByES1 Unknown
a a) epot coated over
4 OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTIC31 Long ful} noe

| WERSOAAL HISTORY: Married

sonnel gectlon in 4 div:
to latter part of 1953.

[
i
H o + BAELOVARNT 5 MALYTARY RUCOMDs Worked as chief of 0 |
| FF. Usrs .- Feet Gerzany prior t2 ecaing to Austria curing
| reeor. ware. (2 rcurce.
i

| pARTY AFPILIATION; POLITICAL OATENTATIOM: Party swster; coveted to tne Party, eteang
velief ian the Party.
RSWARKS: Very unpleseant tn

{BASIS OP INPO: Acquainces tarsgh work froa DATZ OF DiPOr Decoxter 1955
aruary to Decester 1%. ’ .

riod RUHRV, “fey! eserves DSOREB OR RAVES + ee
"warn ALITY: Russian i i : i
DOre. 1910

joccuratrowat SPECIALINES Perescoel, worker (ale protably a vorker for 0/2) sperma
POs Unknown

;POSITION: Acairuant to Cilef, USIA, Cor personnel satters 7 : .

:BT: © 120 ca. WE: oc. 5 tg. BUILD: Slencer HAIR: Blond, tald- BYES: Urknown
ing on the ices :

Hedded PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: -None that were techatieted :

| FERSGHAL HISTORY: Unknown 3

ee WOLITARY fecorp: Case fro Noreov Bt the end of 1953 or ths ot of

i 19545 ailitary record*unknova

. |PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL cnrmrrarroa: Active CP sonber
REMARKS: Reputec vo be very etupic; generally dialiked by everyone

IS OF TWPO: Acquainted through work. (Source DATS OP DVO: Moveaber 1954.
set tim on only cre occasion.) .


SMIN, Vasiliy Nisitich j DEORES OR RANE:
LITY: Russias.
LOCCUPATLONAL SPECIALTY: Ec>,0ztet

* poBs ¢. 1900
POB: Unknow.
POSITIOP: Chief of tne Planazag Snetts:. of A/C Hotel, USI

co its ex. WT c. 85 45. BUILD: fut HAIR Geri, teld on BYS8t  Gok:own
the wp ard sides
, OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Full face, sccasioraliy vere dark horo-rimoed gleeses,
inside anc on care cays, and nas arother pair xf glaeses for reading
PERSOWAL HISTORY: . Civercec

BUPLOYRONT; RILITARY REOOAD: Worced tr. the Wintesy of State Control te Moscow prior to
st iis orgezization along vith cany otters as a result of
and other organizstions, He cane to Austria
itary

ri ec 3. eth
PARTY. “RPPILIATION; POLITICAL ©: OataTATION: ar active anc Joyal CP pexber

REMARKS: actec Mixes lord (ucrin), He was useé to commicing people all his life and did
aot dike to vork hiarel! see

BASIS OP INFO: Acqunintes through work fro8 ‘DATE OP DHPO! becender 1954
‘January te Deceaver 1352

| Gimane: Aesrcevenia, davetya (femie? : DEGREE OR RAK:

| yarrow! TY: Russias. Lo tue tadetaeemneen ent
es ongernewanaiancaeri DOB, Ueienown °

OCCUPATIONAL srscuALy ITY: Engineer
PCB: Unknova |

POSITION: Ergineer ecsroalet on staff of Planning Section of A/O Habel, USEA
WT: Unknown BUILD: Kectun HAIR: Bick BYES! ahck
;]OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: ide nose, vide face :

“ooanaw, MILITARY RECORD: 4s: stant e Weeinty Bikiticn SPUN, Chier. of Planning
[ection of a/0 Kabel



STOKET
ois

THHCMIEGY, Sseraay FEZ

5
7 mares \ DSONEI OR RAK:
F MATIONALITY: in.sss-:. :

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: .

DOB: ¢. 2920
vmerciaa speciaiist

own to source

5 artis of A/C Kael,
fomt: < -scs | WP: = Stee BUILD: Me.

Foun. Yerainian face arc wears hie hair esabec

BAIR: = Lark ‘EYES: Ucknwn

f Faretgn Trace (Aaceziya Ynestres Torgovli)

6 Comezcial Seetion crtef in @ divisian of US1S

ee fee 2928
Lar arate
POs

| OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY:

es Urkzown
Ss
E

POSITION: Enz.neer 1% tne Production Séetion of A/C Kabel
BPs c ftoezt . WE ec cling BUILDshort, thin BAIRsthick, blond BYES: Unknove
if OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: oe : :
{gURSONAL BISTORY: Yarrie. .

‘SMPLOYENT; MILITARY RECORD: Hac verked in East Geratuy for USIG prior to January 1952
Twher. he arrive. it. Austria auc bega:. working #2 en engineer in Production Section of A/0
Matel, US Milatary ree*rd unknown : acti

ARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: An active CP sender

pour: ar atie engineer

os

: Meovcriony

PARD aren

ne
. moe



0 " cue

NATIONALITY: |...
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY:

POSITION: -:..-: «. Mer pabsrciiate to A/B, Kabel, EA
de eerie emia
OTEFR PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: =

PERSOKAL HISTORY: “ua: »

MAIR: Sho, BYES; Uri:

wer wt “Leal” plant tt Moscw vefore

rve any g2verszent

or

He to.

DATE OP INFO: Lecoster 19°.

PaTIONALITY:
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY

2 A :

BATRwWark ac gray BYES: Ucn
ding 21 etd

P OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: +>
fete Matis ares Commer Lain”

ction tna division: ON

[f RMPLOMMENT; MILITARY RECORD:
et te = ‘qurce knew nothing stout

avr tomuetres
: ik. tary a

fparry APPILIATION; POLITICAL, ORIENTATION: A CP zeaber «rd loyal Commas’!
anc stupid. He liked to gquabble and wae alvaye involved

alsont a”

DATE OF INPG: beceaber 195:



er
Py

2

i
3

i

2 tera

CONPIDENTIAL | °

®,
DISTRIBUTION

- 7997th Composite Oroup l= DRA

~ 7982 USAREUR Liaison Group, 1 - 66th CIC Group, APO 158
Detachnent A, APO 742 1 - FDI Liaison, ID, USAREUR

= HICOa (APC 757-A) 4 ~ CoMNAVOER, APO 757

= London 12 = BLO (B)

~ Vi ‘ 2 7 Hae., CaanzuR
eed - Hao., USAFE

- Aps't. Chief of Staff, G-2,
USPA



povees
2 Marck sy

' Hubert B, Tabakin

|G fern LDERICK, LIPSTICK, M562, dated 27 Jan 54
i : : LIVESTOCK

#9

Qol-I3aisgy ©



fetene ae peene

... from another ‘conversation that HAIVSiEV ws a-tending this school vith hin.)

* ROLOMYAKOV and SAHOTLOV in their absence (v'thoxt raking decisions or taking

~:© teety and the Like, Ho ins also occasionally been seen driving one or a-other
of the Exbassy automobiles, apoarcntly filling in for ono of the, chauffeurs.

ieee iil eras an pen ce 1 their arrival . 7

< ES63 :

Valertya Ivangvaa L? : 4
: "hs ce ‘ 2 mig = Jl Doo 1953 }

Yexioo City . E aac samo . I 3

LIMERICK , LIPSTICK, LIVESTOCK

Hemet Hikola! Sorgoyavich LEGIOV
Borns 22 August 192° in Ryasna
Arrived in Hexioot 12 July 1953 aboard SS Andrea orites, Veraours, with wile

Bogumente: lds service passport 10724, issued 29 eo 195?,. in Moscow
Titles: Unknown “ositions Cnknown
Residence in Moxicos Suaracatlan a +

Wifes Valoriys Ivanoma

Gocastonally drives one of aobassy eutomotiles

Settotad settvittos i

Our few reforencea to TEZIOV make it appoar that hoy like PULYAKOV and ANTIASOV,
with whom ho soens to le vaguely essociatad, isa t ind echelon functianary who

prob-bly performs a variety of administrative tas':s in support of ona or another
phase of the Snhassy overations and might be in onetho~Jjot training for s spe-

cialised jor as assistant to, at a guoss, SOIL, In early ‘ugist, shortly af-
ter his arrival, he called 6 voman instructor at an o! scure local tusiness school
and wes told that he could come ty for his prades the follewing woe, (we infer

LEQIOV vas aleo with AITYASW and BLY “OV whan LITYASIV wes detainod om their
wey “back from the Univeraity* at tho end of Septanmor, (Tees ASTYASN.) This f-
should indicate that ho wee orinsipally occupied durin®. the weeks after his ar a
rival in sequaintinz hinsslf with loca) business methods and con-erefal prao-
toss, and perhaps takin; sme furtter form] instruction, Otherwise, his ep-
pear nees in the traffte have been lf ited to answerin: tne telophono for both

@ay action) ani, under tho tutelagoof LAZAREV tefare tho latter's departure,
routing calls comested with ordering vine, supa‘ring the movic projeo-

Our anly informtion on LEGiOV's private life is the faust that’ the Z4KOVe moved


on 7 Boverber and tho tim couples lival together for about thres
LBEQUOVs moved into other quarters at Jumncatlan 2.

that the original arrancacnt bad ever boon intended to be
or that the subsoquant movo of the Live woo due to friction betwecn the wo
couples.) ‘This raises tho cugyestion that ZiWKCT may be associated in sone way
wth LEGW within the bubnssy as well, o yoscitdlity wich is borne out to eae
extent by the fact that both habitually snsxc und raie calls fron the samo ke

bacay telephones.

Samscat,

We cannot yet assess LECUOY for operational purposes,



|
|
|

Temas
1BM4-625
24 Faroh 54
tage 3

Ramet Volertya Ivanovna LiGNOVA

Pomt Unimowm

Arrived in oxico 11 July 1953 aboawi 18 Aan Gattel in Vereciuis vith mstand
Bo known title or position 1

Residenee in Mecicot Junnseaths a

* Childrens lone knouns Hone in lexie0
Uninown

Laricuagess
Other personal datas Hieimane:s LiRA :
Exiate cetinitios

Lithouch ve have no definite indications to that effect, there is a fair possi-
bility that LEGHOVA is employed in some aduinistr:tive or clerical poaition in
the Enbassy, since aho scans to be prosant in the Chancery area a good dev]
poate ed mare ier would not othorwiso have a creat deal
we

Our only information relating directly to L:AiOVA osours during a conversation
betareen APA DHLVA and MELULIOVA on 26 Uetober in woleh APARZOVA oonjlainel bite
terly that LECUCVA we ghirking her ohare of responsibility in preparing food
for the 7 Novenber rese,tion, LOINVa bad ayparcntly failed to buy ingradior.ta,
after being avxed to do so, om the plea that sho had not beun told excetly wat
kin of apples to cet aor vhere to buy the, A:AKDVAs SXCSOMCLISI always
brag about being in tho front line, but in actunlity, beh LMIKOVA: "Yeo,
when I vas Bt ‘thair home, uw happenod vo discuss the rece;tion, end Rita
(AUTLAS.VA) caid, "hy should wo do the work tor the rccortion?' I told her she

npataeteerrerreatirirrte tora

bho’ (1 che
Suday and race a list of the thince to bo bought.” IcLHIXOVA: "And sho didn't
Sh bei ee eee ee APAKT-

7 work in the Sebaeay an! held out during rocep=



LUGAICY, 73 Goue5 Het 370 24 ssi 53 Pe 5

ONOYA arrived at Jeracruz
this resort are copies of
net at Veracruz. by Alexan-

neolisioPstor™, and his wife, Ylerta
Forwarded wi
cK. LEchovs

fp, 526 Sakolai LiQhOv,
3 aboard an Italian veszel.

photos of the Subjects t vg LT
der EZLIAKCV. oe oe a
P.10' 7 BW and his vite, Val: franoma LEQIOVA arrt: J
Velusria by bidpe it dehy 20504 Psciatgralenie ante one erecsue emiocine pas 3
i nent Fhotocraphs taken by LIVSSTOCKs following perti~ 4
6 copies of the pair leaving the ship }
a 6 copies of LUtiGV loaning ever the ship's rati
: 3 copies of BeLIAKOV speaking vith LEHUVA at the dock
lL. copy of pages from LLUCV's pazeport:
2 of pagaa of LEEOVA's :

copy
Foreign Miristry cards Z
Tale Ministry cams duh plotes af LCHCY and wife are also attached





63-743

JUL 1 « 1953
Chief of Mission, Mexico City

Chief, WED

\ Soviet Exbassy Perscans)
Hikolal LEGCV

Heese BRPs ROG-5593, ROTSAZ

Eeadquarters ¢: ivs contain the information given below concerning one
B. LECHOV, vho may be identical vith subject. KUPALM vas not able to
Provide additions] inforzatica.

According to Inforzatica |

éated 17 duly 1352,/ one H, LEGOV,

+ 2, paooport maber 05552, dated 25 April 1952, viea.nusber 70,
Gated 25 April 1952, was leader of an /gri-ulture Delegation
from Hoscov to attend the Asian Regional Coaference.cn —

es crested act ced ceadeerel eal lined Cot :

Sie pteneien F sl eta

J.C. King



ang oF 1130 8, bectiGhs THI EDS TH of the UB Code. ee

21°" INFORMATION REPORT >, Smog vn snutrunpran ris y
i : : by lw. The mpredution of ta tore te proniited. y
} SUCRET/CONTROL - U. 8. OFFICIALS ONLY ii
a fe : SECURITY BMIORMATION . 4
. : 4
| . : Tae , ae
i COUNTRY : Itely/USSR HEPORT NO. CS-11590 4
| ‘SUMECT TSeek of Covice wi ysowatic Personuel ‘pate DisTR, 2 June 1953 - F
| : ot WO. OF PAGES 2
i DATE OF neo, 6 My 1953 * : _ REQUIREMENT NO. RD

PLACE acauiep ‘Ttaly, Rome (23 May 1953) 3

IE SOURCE EVALUATIONS th THIS REPORT ARE DEFINITIVE. at
INE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S: TENTATIVE.
(FOR KEY SEE REVERSE)

‘SOURCE: Appraisal of Content: 3.

Bikolat Leonov, an employee of the Soviet Exbassy in Mexico, and his
wife, Valeriyn, left Genca on 16 May 1953 aboard the 83 ANDRZA GRITTI,

destinedaforciaxtes.

em Wasps, Cnt, end By “As Feld Certs: 87



}
i
H
Y
i
i
3
5
i
i
H
;
i

sium aretenig OF the Urtied Bates, -vithin'ine means
tng Of The 18:tections 92 and 1,01 the U8. Cove, oa

“INFORMATION REPORT 0 -.-o-hohoe on Epmbenuemmmseguimees o>

by law. The sepreaction of this form is prokiatted.

i
1
: ns « fa.
SECRET /CORTROL - U. 3. OFFICIALS ONLY oe 2 a
‘SCURITY IKCOMMATION ‘ T4
cena x i
TS mi
countay Italy /USER/Mexico CS. 10879 :
suptct Travel of Suriet 27 May 1953

Diplomatic Persognel Feet

OATE OF INFO. 13 May 2953

PLACE ACQUIRED Italy, Rome ( 19 May 195:

HE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 ‘TENTANIVE.
’ (POO KEY SEE eavensey

SOuRCE: (8). sel
[eommemes 3: J@)-" armasest

NON

The following Soviet diplomtte personnel arrived in Rome on 9 May
1953 from Moscow. and took 2odgings at Primrose Persione until 13 May
- 1953, when they departed for Genoa to proceed by sea to Mexico:

®. Wikolei Leonov, collabarator at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico
‘City, who carries service Passport ( 1O72h, ssoued ‘in Moscow on
29 October 1952; and ~

b. Valeria Leonova, wife of stove, who-wRsborn in Moscow on 26 Apri?
1928-amt who carries service passport C ae issued.in Moscow =. 3
once 2B. February 1953.


ROME 5842 © Fkolad LE0TCV and wife Valeria errived in Bone on 9 Mey 53.from “occow end took

IZ 26738 lodgings at Primrose Fencione until 13 vey 55 when they deverteé for ‘Genoa to

22 Yay 53 proceed ty era to Merico. LUCY ‘carries ecrvice ppt C 1072l, isened in Koszow
ee on 29 Oct 52. Wife catries service ppt. C-1L507. {eoued in Hoscow. 23 Feb 53

z Sr ose et
Mikolal b. Mozan (nrob. Rrazan) 27 ang'l9%8. Valeria b. voscow 22 Apr 1928. .
80-96339 22 Sept "52 One N. LSCEOV, pasevort Ho: O9N92 dtd 2 Anrt52 Viea To. 70, été
2 Apr'52, arrived in Peehawer fron Kabul on 2 Yay'52. Tuis iddividual is. leader

of Agricuiture Delegeticn fren Moeccw on wag.to Yarachi.(this infc. t2xen from
ROE-175 étd 17 Jul'52 ard:vas acouired 1: Purvose of this tr¢p -
ves to attend duian “egional Conference ¢ helé in Karachi

3 ¥ay'52.

ecw



wort UGUST 4928, COLLABORATCR SOVIET E: SASSY
| PASSP: RT C oe ISSLED mae a cer £2.

yosee tes
2. SOURCES pares rece 9 iy, 3 Be ce
ts noT RECEIVED, rn



ae SECRET,

aime: .colisboraten at 39

eeteccecwecsee” oe {

INCOMES sccccccccccrerencecveccrcesenccsesoress

Heights ceccccssescsesre WOLGIY secereesenes

Fyest acccccsvccrscese HALTS — sereececscee
} Complexion: cscccccccceccceseveccsescccess .

Special features

Date of birth: .27.:ev9b.2728.
Birthplacer .seeRVPFPPs.csssccceseee

Wife: Names rE a

(Pat

oe

| Birthplacer .sof03SSY.ecsesavseneeeee
ane "Pesoriptious Date of Birth:
: : yest
7 * Special features:

Fassport € 11507, issued Moscow

Children: Names Aone Jom, , None in Mexia, -

eoeeee Residencetsosseseees
Hams? sesssservevcescecsenses ACE coscee Residences cevessseeseces

Hames csccccesccceccccccccers Ager oo

Documentations oe
Nikolai LEONOV - Service Paesszort ¢ a, issued in Moscow 25 Oct. 19



TI baht

Boos3

30 rmagyamer: santinn Sh!

sogpatte noe

fing Coprce bran

FRAIL sn eo oan tee

s are “4 Sh
i.



»Seohs y lugar

Hoabre conpleio: ee Kota dengan &
W/ Fecta y Ligar do naciatsates «Lar qariian GF, SEI
oS Pivewciba Bahye OV benig OF ST
/ Ccvpactéa: Aytade ar <2 Pwhyaae a ie ct te Wee

@/ Color de pele y ojoes SU, etwey
ae ene

tera 772 ww

ets » direceson del ny Pent
roano an la URS3:

miestenete eta okae bt

Kart. ebb ay PREC MB. om vie

& taasih., # . *

Veohs y lugar de ou 1legada on 100 B'0U.1 </ Par aeldre Kern
:  Lereao (Serf

Menera de'viajer: ar x2tecarey :

ms ealida Ge tee ma.tv.s LLP active e PR
a Wry Sn
Wanore de viajor: pr Kero - Oa ba het

Darveoién durante mu ostaneta on los EE.30.1 2p70c Powe,





#49:

apices

Pers, 53

can

|

oblawem.

Attachment to HNMA+5438, 10 Cot 56.

soos rene at inane mmr enero nny,


a -
*/ wonre codyieion Cee, ,

E/ peode lugar te nnotstenten 977 ay eh” ae VL, COIL
MUL reset ba ZF Ketge AO cee OF Fre or
S/ Coupactbar acs ep corsg. eae

*/ Color 8 pedo y ojoes Xebiiap rrrliy
4/ Wenae yarticularess Ae Benge
OS setature “SP,

XY Bourse comler 4 atrecs o pee
Darionte ade cervano en de assy 47 PEC |

t/ wolive y,portéto de ou eatencta ial I are ae WE
hilicbad rman) ae ea aren pe merge
Be anys ¥

Pecta y lugar de 1 liegeta on lose BTU PG ante wife”

 Sercao (Fen

7 fb rve estes

manera

viejars

Peote y lugar

manera te viatert wp Yo,

|

Spapenty Wears Seaers





as
6. AGC



Be de ELMS rte tists

i tioceewent 2
ch ae oa vee e
Grea 7















told "We have found the
ign pylicy).” LENT

‘ next’ day. -NEIVC for many years
active in the Mexican’ Diplcmatio Service,’ at one time being Charge of the '
Mexican Legution in Warsam, Poland, ‘icw vbout .75 and inactive in Sovernment,
but does write articles for the newspaper ixcelsior (i22tA 3736 5-Deo 55). a

6 January 1956: The daughter of General deriberto JARA spoke with Subject
at the Soviet Embassy saying she had been told ‘that he was the person who
could inform her of when she should come by to pick up translations of the
“olincial cocuments"” relative to herse!f and her futher. Subject said they
were having some trouble getting the documents translated because of the
medioal terms, but said they should be ready in aoout five days (i2A 4200).

1 February 1956: Subject called Velia Jara de NIETO, daughter of General JaRA,
and told her that the translations cf her father's tlinical history had been
made from Russian into Spanish, Mrs, NISTO ‘said she would visit the imbasey
the next day and ask LeONOV for the raterials (HMA 4410),

24 February 1956: One Sumuel Pa9S contacted Subject who acts as secretary to
Soviet ambassador, Yexico, 2ak0S told LNOV “ive ure not going to nest at ny
house this afteracon, tut et Sslc0's (which is at) Insurgentes 42-51 at the usw)
hour." Subseét replied that he thought he could get to the meeting at 1900

hours and sont greetings "to tha boys.” . 20S said "we have some bocks we want
to order through LEONOV" (HMA 4336),

2 March 1956: Sumuel RAMOS left a message for Subject that "if he has time I
hope he will cone to my house today” (HEA 4600).

7 Maroh 1956: Samuel RAMOS called Embassy and asked for data on the possibility
of staging an internaticnal chese match in Mexico, In this conversation it was
indioated that KaMCS y@ in the ucademio line of work, He stated that mm he was
"back in classes” and that meetings could ne longer be held in his hone. He
told LA0NOV that a tournament featuring a person named "POLMARD" would begin
Xonday (12 March) and invited Subject to ceo some of it. LEUNOV said he would
attend if he had tine. aKOS then asked when he could see LIONOV to give hin

@ list of books "we want", LaONOV told him to come to the Embassy at uny time,
end RAMOS said he would come right away (MO 4600).

age
+ 27 June 1956? Subject's personal calling card found in address book of |
Fidel GaSTRO Ruz, Cuban revolutionary detaided in Hexico (MEXI 639 IN 35356 |
i REF: MEXI 825 IN 34161).

22=29 July 1956* Subject served as translator for Bighth International
Radiology Congress Soviet delegates (125.1752).

1 October 1956! Subject and wife requested U.S, transit visas to leave Mexico
17 Oot by rail, entering U.S. via Laredo; to depart New York 24 Votober on -
Queen Elisabeth (MEXI 231 IN 34833 6 Yet 56/,



canon Fal ted,

DOCUMENT TRANSFEk AND ‘CROSS REFEREKCE

a
Pale
fete eee ete eee

Frgounce Cave Tonvale, Bate OF UWF

SUBJECT oF oocuvENT

a. waxare
nore

PERTINENT INFORMATION

LEONOV, NIKOLAY SERGE YEVICH
201-132139

074-005-102
' SEX M DGB 22 AUG 28 SX -05555/09 Hireeemeics
1 NO DATE
| CIT USSR
S| occ 7 poe
H 1: KGB FIRST CHIEF DIRECTORATE LATIN AMERICAN ia
: | { DEPT INPUT 2 NOV 67 i
i
'
i ——

T7119 ® 6803140507

FILE IN 2017-22223



ea tsso7 we =

: Nikoldl Serggevich (reamEUEseS} :
| ioe rape Nickmaze: KOLYA io

i i

| Collaborator" 2 €MpLotee :

| Arrived in Mexico: 11 July 1953—Veracruz Departing by rail 18 Oct 56 for NY and then | {

: (met by BELYAXOT) on Queen Elizabeth 2h Oct. 56 : i

| g Reetdencer x=

(FRG — chip ‘ests Arrived 19 Jun 53 (11 July believed correct) aboard Andrea Grits,
LEONOY carrying Dag PP #10724 issued Moscow 29 Jan 52, -PPft-elee-d&ffere-Prom-EHestee = =
$236693-abore} SV VISA (USSR) & EBL FEST? i

— Jienaccd lem u
ao

cor Zitacuaro and Juanacatlen‘a/o 27nov53-Liquation
APC ra mens ¥s os y sat fem CEG fe tim Eee AE
Wifes ceed ol hdkeMied

address - 91 Feb 54 - 3271: Cuautle 141-9

ALAN
Deserintion: torn 22 Mvea8, Ry

Reizht: 170 ons Weights Build: Hair: blond Eyes: blue —
other:

Languages: Spanish cood (Follicove jansh)
English (13372, 21 Sept. 56)
French (Visa section)

Bolr-/82139

ertcimrntaneinen ef en anette etna

[ ef



+ Eyy-W-748, datod 1 July 19531.' One N, LEMOV wes Toader of an Yericulture Deleg:tion from
} Moscow $0 attend the Asian Reg'onnl Conference on Epizootica hela in % rachi on 3.lay 52.

“ie .
}
eit lata SORES AN ECE it RE CAREC TSN TRAE NEE





aA

: ors ee
7 ZEON ve

LAH BH3.

a

SC mn









piven senmin



seyevioh Lepr”

Bikolay Ser’



fo

ih

Ce nei CLT
PERSCNALITY (20!) FILE REQUEST

IW) Oct $6 f Eset
FHOH | / Ti809_k oy y =

IWSTRUCTIONS: “Fore aver be typed or printed sm block letters.

SECTION
Cache
vate for,

SECTION U1: Liat
fre! Dew and coople
and Section Il. Sul

SECTION Jit: To be conplered in at! cones

Hed Iny

ti lying data in
bec fiat!
Weite UNKNOW for iters yo:

1 knom stjaves and varianta
o4 vith the alias weed, a sepa

ined. If true nase is seneigive, obtain 21 nenbei
On @ separate form, enter'the 201 nueber and comp:

free D1 Cone
ete Section IE

cach form separately.

SECTION 1

oi nOe 1] SOURCE boewwinT

WOW Stns TIVE ROM £2,272

(vida ef (ritsty (HiiTey 7

“Nikolay "Serge yewich

(heey (Hiddtey Fire ithe

OiWER 1DENTIFi CATION

=P counter oF pin 6 a “Ge Town OF minta 7

Tage 123] US SR

SecuPatigu/rosi tig 7 _

DECRETARY To husessanen Sswieh Embassy Me wish
7 SECTION Wi oe

a7 cayPronen PSeuDonvae

SECTION th
Sr aan el epacaa TatEREST iF (ie caustay wviaea? VET
A f [:

‘countay OF RESIDENCE

‘2

7

PERMANENT CHARGE

21. / 32/3
7 F

a2

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE .ONLY

