"104-10227-10136) { 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

i
i
i
i

VW Eevenber 1961

DEROPARUIN Pr SEIS

rust 1 Peeent Arreot of Nevtetente yernluctomerio fet
Puabdle (Mf) Fexbers

MEYESUECE 1, MO/PRIP dated 3 Zovemder LL

Teformtion swsilsbie. 19 issuffietent to emiuate the Zula.
Rinigtry of Interstar eiaia thet. the 122. cox tem Cestroyed by the sllayed
Tount-uo of a lorig muater of its weckers eo! the arrest of Beyeoie”
COCA? tnrertial KX? eoortinatar, Cxbun estes have eommautes that
ome of those Listed ou, srrested ave netaally ben held tu cupicdy for
Se lvoe as threy wontts. “It bea hes the practice of the Cvean
Covermurst iv sisflar cases to tasty cea Lerce Youn? up of mm mp ites
group xben in fme§-noct of these Beard dove bean Keown tu bave bean
arrested. sues panth? sefers. Imaneto MERCLA, eoordineter of the ISP
in ersie, emuscted. to the. orees a6 follovt “kn errente heve bert our
pormmest very'nech, but this is Yy 29 meace @ teath bicy,” cee

Teare tn po dovdt that CORTAIZ? ome. unter extrere “preacive turing
the pertcé after hia arreat acs hefere Sie telovision appearance, :vnick,
aceordine tp LAPUA e prace. wiateunt, ‘wea On earatelty e2ites Piin,
instea! ‘af the voual Tlive™ yrozraa pronented by tha CARTE) voverneent
with etber ce,

fyea. A relfabis euwce of thie AS@OCY, VRO tz ecrustnted
apd Enevieseable of recent 2eteTonl reoletonce. activities,
Woekesrt od ecxsented that {% was definitely CATAL
voted, wn) that he*fenced voll with the ieterropaters and saced only
ovopls cut sf reach, 1.2. in avyles er exile, or thoce siresiy tx eartody

tml bayer! Rove af saving.”

Diatritetion:
Ortiz bt - Adéreseee

1. Chtef, wep

1. Chior, ti/s

2 . taf /ea-ace
