# 104-10166-10174

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10166-10174

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

I ONLY

ROLTING AND RECORD SHEET

J CONTOENTIAL

D

SECRET

SURECT, lOracad

Cenard Charles of Halti

пом.

DOS, 'OSS - CHUBULLA: YJ

2268

C21,358

I AprIL 1966

nones, and

DATE

DO/09

2

Mrs Gremillion

83-83-2630, Ngs

48і

0.3

Bef:

08 T AprIL 1966

Attached for your information

and retention 18 copy of NYOR-5958

unica pertalas to: referenced

telecopy: Per your instructione

ve util emiliasise: Importance to

OuT HYDR DIfIca to effess contest

VIth "Captala Balog" When Clemard

returas from visit to Italy and

France.

Larics

Mr. Brown

suck - file

not

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use er

Đo Not Reproduce

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL.

• UNCLASSIFIED.

OMY

1728

3/0V

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RR ESE

DE ES3

43

3962006

ZNY XXXXX

R B62083Z

BT

XXXXX

NINE FIVE EIGHT VA

Ax 8 3 52 PHYS

8 8. C N ET TDTO 862883Z

VA CITE NYOR 3938

GLAUKOUBKI FROM FREUND FOR BALOR

SUBJICT & CLOSED CASE AB:SS6 - CLEMARD CHARLES OF HAITI

: NO. VILLING IN FOR BALOR, WHO IS ON SA, FREUND TOOK CALL TRON.

CHARLES, WHO IS- AT VALDORF-ASTORIA FOR SHORT TINI ONLY EN ROUTE TO

TALE AND FRENCE• CHARLES NAS VERY EABER TO BIT BALOG"S PHONE NUMBER,

BUT I TOLO HIM "CAPTAIN BALOB." WAS SERIOUSLY ILLO

8o CHARLES VILL ATTEMPT TO REACH OUR CAPTAIN.ON VAY BACK. IN ABOUT

A GEEK'S TIRE. SOREBODY PLACES CALL AND INITIALLY SPOKE POR

CHARLES, BUT. I HAVE NO MAY OF KHOWING WHETHER IT VAS BEORBE

DE MOHRENSHILDT. ALSO THERE IS NO INDICATION UNAT CHARLES VANTS

AT THIS TIME•

•Do & DID NOT MAVE BENEFII OF YOUR VA G6S08 WHEN I SPOKE TO

CHARLES ANO COULE NOT HOLD MIM OFT SINCE ME WAS ASOUT TO VACATE MOTIL.

PLEASE CONFIRM ANDIOR UP-DATE INSINUCTIONS TUM BALOO, IN PARTICULAR

1P EMARLES ALONE MANTS TO SEE BALOS LATER THIS MONTHO

8O PYII CHARLES ASKED

TON MY NAMLO & DAVE HIM MY HEDISTERED.

PSEUDO MINUS ANT MILITARY TITLE.

SECRET

---

