# 104-10185-10131

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10185-10131

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

--

-5

3

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCS AGENCY

15452

parada is pratibica dy lot.

SECRET

NO. FOREIG DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Alfredo GARCIA Almeira

REPORT NO..

DATE DISTR

CS CI-$10. 00580-64

27 Juiy 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1F

ACTORE TO GIS

Rectorsund use Ohty

DATE OF

1984

iNFo.

PLACE &

jeShiation, D. C.

CATE ACO.

• 165+

FIELD REPORT NO.

¡RS IS LINEVALUATED INFOLLATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL GI CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1.

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personaliy reports without first

cheesing with this Agency.

Alfredo GARCIA Almeira, pseudonym "Aranja, " resides on Calle

29, Number 716 entre Septima y Novera, Mirarmar, Habana, Cuba.

GARCIA was in Venezuela when it brose relations with Cuba

was laier involved in an attempted recovery of documents from a,

plare crash in Peru, which led to his expulsion from Chile. He

is now the Venezuelan desk officer in the Departamento Liberacion

Nacional (LN - National Liberation Department) of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of Intelligerce).

in south consider 1, 2, 3, 4, 3,e, 1, ogerations the most successial

in South America.

Headquarters Comments

1.

As an attachment to a documert dated 10 May 1961 there was a

letter from one Lisandro GALVEZ, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,

to Alfredo GARCIA Almeida, Mayor 111, entre Central y

Suarez, Luyaro, Habar., Cuba, and daied 4 May 1961.

Included in the letter was a chack for $365. 43 ior GARCLA

Situr i

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

: FBI

2

PEP COCLANT

(Nicia: Fiold dissriburian ie cicarod by '=")

CANCSO ÷

&I'S

31p2/

WH/557MO51

WE, MADRIZ CIRCA

WHISA/R

•1'

WH/SA/CI

IRIDIAN

VAVE

: 11

WE/SA 7(1), IVE 1 (2), CI4, RD 1

12 Ju: 1363

TITE

CANADAT

BRITISK

Litask 1s?

11

444120h

101-330207

IX - 1000

NO PROJECT

• (-:21:0G-1)

CSCI-310 00380-65

¡CORDINATING AGLEASING

iMK:L

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FORSIEN ESSEM

- 2-

and some pancis from the bart concerning sier checks to GARCL ard

OnE JUSE CARILLO GarCia, GARCIA ard CISILLO were Cuban

diplomats ir. Honduras unti! diplomatic relaions were susperded

in dori! 1961.

2. A document dated 5 October 1902 included & list of Cuban personrel

assigred to the Cuban Embassy in Santiago, Chile. Alfredo

GARCIA Almeyda was included on the list as Secord Secretary,

his date arü place of birth were given as 1533 in Cuba and his

passport number was listed as Diplomatic 415/62.

In a report dated 21 December 1962 from a usually reliable

source, it was stated that the personal efieces of Alfredo GARCIA

Almeyca, Second Secretary of the Cuban Eabassy in Chile and

a suspected Cuban G-2 official, were aboard the Swedish ship,

Sirgit Bergt Sjosten, when it sailed from Chile to Cuba on

4.

5.

Early in the morning on 25 March 19S3 a local Santiago radio

broadcast ancounced that the Cuban Second Secretary, Alfredo .

GARCIA Almeyda, had been declared persora ron grata by the

Chilean government for misrepresenting himself to Chilean

authorities while trying to reach the site cia plane crash in

Peru.

This information was later confirmed by the Chilean

Undersecret..y for Foreign Afiairs who said toat GARCIA told

the governor of Arica that he (GARCLA) was a Chilean journalist

and that he rad forgotten his identification cccuments. GARCIA

was accompanied by the Chilean Communist Deputy, Luis VALENTE

Rossi, who vouched for GARCLA's story.

VALENTE tried to

convince the Peruvian Border Authorities thai he was a Brazilian

journalist. The two were denied entry irto Paru and thus did

not reach the site.

This information was take? from a document

dated 25 March 1963.

In another Documert dated 25 March 1963 it was reported that

Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda, Second Secretary di the Cuban Embassy

in Santiago, would leave by plane, Canadian Pacific, on 27 March

1953 for Mexico.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3-

6.

A 26 Warch 1963 report stated tha: Alíredo GARCIA Almeyda left

Sartiago on 26 March 1963 via Iberia Airlines enroute to Madrid.

Originally he was to leave Santiago on 27 March 1962 for Mexico

via Canadian Pacific, but the Chilean government demanded he leave

on the 26th of March.

7.

A usually reliable source in a document dated 25 March 1963 advised

that Alredo GARCIA Aimeyda, Curia Charge in Santiago, entered

Peru on two occasions using aliases.

The first occasion was on

19 liarch 1963 when GARCIA traveled to Tacna, Peru, using

the alias,

Moises GOMEZ Paredes. CARCIA was accompanied by

& Chilear. Communist Party Deputy from Arica. A Chilean news-

paperman from Arica advised source of their true identities and

source, in turn, advised the Peruva, authorities who expelled both

mer to Chile. Or 21 March 1963 GARCIA went to Charana, Peru,

using the alias Federico GARCIA.

A 29 March 1963 document reported at Alfredo GARCLA Almeyda

departed Madrid for Paris on 27 March 1963 enroute to Habana via

Prague.

9.

An 11 April 1963 document gave the following biographic data on

Alíredo GARCIA Almeyda:

GARCIA was born on 3 Augus: 1938 in Cuba. He carried

diplomatic passport rumber 2/22/4i3 issued on 3 August 1962.

He is married to Delfina (riczrame Nani) QUIETLAN Fernardez

de GARCIA who was born or 23 August 1938. They have one

son, Alfredo GARCLA Quietian wino was, born on 9 April 1962.

GARCIA and his family arrived in Santiago on 4 August 1962

from Vexico and while in Sartiego resided at Padre Restrepe

2615. GPRCLA was declared persona non grata by the

Chilean government for using false Chilean credentials in

crossing the Chilean-Peruvian sorder. GARCIA and his

family left Chile on 26 March 1553 for Madrid; he planned

to travel to Prague and then to Habana.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

