# 104-10302-10018

## Page 1

1704-10302-10018

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

COPY NO.

51

OCI NO.0234/63

26 November 1963

CURRENT

INTELLIGENCE

DIGEST

GENTRAL

AGENCY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICE OF CURRENT INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

RETURN TO ARCANES I SORE DERRA

1n9 795146 30X94

227702

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SOUTHEAST ASIA

Developments in laos

(Page

by neutralist, Lao Army, and Meo

guerrilla elements has

met with

considerable success.

NOTES

Communist China

- Australia

USSR

Japan

Algeria

Yemen

Cuba

(Page

10)

26

NOV

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page ii

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SOUTHEAST ASIA

Developments in Laos

(Page 9)

SECRET

NER

A clearing action launched

north of Vientiane on 21 November

by neutralist, Lao Army, and Meo

guerrilla elements has met with

considerable success.

NOTES

Communist China-

Austratta

USSR

Japan

Algeria

Yemen

Cuba

(Page 10)

26

NOV

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page ii

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

GENERAL

1.

World Reaction to Change of US

Administration

World reaction to the as-

sassination of President Ken-

nedy and its aftermath is in-

creasingly preoccupied with

speculation over the possible

effects on US foreign and do-

mestic policies.

Oswald's Communist back-

ground, however, and his dra-

matic murder while in police

custody are being exploited for

almost every conceivable propa-

ganda line.

The USSR continues

to reflect

sensitivity over Os-

wald's political motivations;

Khrushchev, talking with Am-

bassador Kohler on 23 November,

recalled that Lenin had con-

demned "nihilist" activities

and asserted the Soviet Communist

Party is

traditionally opposed

to terrorism.

Pravda, citing a denial by

the

US Communist Party that Os-

wald had ever been a member,

suggested he was linked to

"American Trotskyites," but con-

cluded that the Kennedy assas-

sination was the work of "fasc-

ist forces" trying to destroy

the

detente atmosphere.

Papers in West Germany,

Belgium, and Lebanon, among

others,

theorize Oswald was

killed

him.

by associates to silence

A Cairo newspaper calls

killer "one Jack Rubenstein,

a Jew of course." The US Em-

bassy in Beirut has received

many telegrams speculating that

Oswald's killing is evidence of

a Communist plot against the US.

The embassy notes with dismay

the probable foreign impact of

dramatic news photos showing the

escorting officer apparently

looking away while Oswald is

shot.

An Afrikaans paper in

Johannesburg editorialized that

while Us racial difficulties

might not be "directly concerned

with the assassination," they

had become a vehicle for the

undermining of the state by the

Communists and Afro-Asians.

A Cairo editorial expresses

concern that President Johnson,

while committed to the policies

of his predecessor, may have to

compromise and postpone decisions

in order to avoid antagonisms

as the US enters an election

year. Syrian Vice President

Bitar commented to Ambassador

Knight on 25 November that the

Arab cause might suffer from

the loss of President Kennedy,

"who had shown signs of increas-

ingly better understanding of

the Arabs and their problems."

West German and French

press commentaries range from

expectations of initial uncer-

tainty or temporizing in US for-

eign policy to the gloomy

view

of Der Spiegel that it is "doomed

to immobility" for the next

year.

Some segments of the

British press had suggested

(continued)

26 Nov 63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page 1

---

## Page 5

13-00000.

SECRET

that an opportunity existed for

development of a strong British

leadership in the Western alli-

ance, but London officials,

noting

that the UK also faces

1964 elections, are not in-

clined to expect any radical

departures.

Genevieve Tabouis, writ-

ing in Paris Jour, expects no

major decisions from the pres-

ent meeting between President

Johnson and General de Gaulle,

but notes that De Gaulle will

probably urge that France-Ameri-

can problems be settled in the

course of 1964, while Johnson

will urge

a "Western summit con-

ference."

The Peruvian Chamber of

Deputies on 24 November unani-

mously adopted a motion urging

the award of the Nobel Peace

Prize to President Kennedy.

(SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

26

Nov

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page 2

---

## Page 6

13-00000

2.

SECRET

GENERAL

Hanoi Apparently Renewing Cam-

paign for "Neutralization" of

South Vietnam

Hanoi appears to be re-

newing its campaign to generate

international support for the

"neutralization" of South Viet-

nam.

NBR

In pressing its neutraliza-

tion proposal, lanoi probably

hopes to take advantage of Cam-

bodian Premier Sihanouk's re-

cent reiteration of his scheme

for an international guarantee

of neutrality for Cambodia,

Laos, and South Vietnam.

The

North Vietnamese reportedly

have urged Premier Souvanna

Phouma of laos to press for

adoption of their neutrality

proposition.

For the first time in nearly

a year, moreover, the Hanoi-con-

don: Cat Pairs 2506, 22 NantS (Rist)

trolled National Front for the

Liberation of South Vietnam has

publicly restated its support

of the three-country neutrality

plan. North Vietnam is also

drawing support from Moscow and

Peiping, whose propaganda has

recently become less reticent

on the subject of South Viet-

namese neutrality.

North Vietnam's premier re-

portedly told a French official

recently that his country sees

indications of growing weariness

and dissatisfaction in the US

with the war in South Vietnam.

He implied that Hanoi intended

to keep up military and political

pressure in the South in order

to help Induce American with-

drawal. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DIS-

SEM)

USAACU Jarge 5139054,24 A66s (Cop)

UBR

26 NOV

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

3.

French Aid to Cambodia

NBR

France is considering ex-

tending additional economic and

military aid to Cambodia.

Despite the general irri-

tation in French Government

circles over Sihanouk's recent

actions, the prince's

direct

appeal for French aid

has posed

a dilemma for Paris.

A flat

rejection could adversely affect

France's position in Africa and

the Middle East, as well as in

Southeast Asia.. On the other

hand, Paris is probably reluc-

tant

to take over the recently

canceled US financial commitments

in Cambodia.

The French are presently

reviewing what seems to be a

renewal of a long-standing

w. Paño 2551, 23 Nantes (Cap).

Paris 2550,25 Men t3 (Kant)

GENERAL

Cambodian request for more mili-

tary equipment, mostly obsoles-

cent.

They are also thinking

of offering Phnom Penh $5 million

in economic and cultural aid,

plus either larger loans or

greater export credits.

Perhaps related to their

plans to assist Cambodia is the

strong possibility that French

Defense Minister Messmer will

be sent to Cambodia in January.

Since 1956, French grant

aid has amounted to $15 million.

Negotiations for an additional

$2 million have been deadlocked

for the past 18 months by dis-

agreements over exchange rates.

(SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

26 Nov

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page

4

---

## Page 8

13-00000

4.

SECRET

EASTERN EUROPE

Rumania's Industrial Development

Rumanian party first secre-

tary Gheorghiu-Dej has just com-

pleted another tour of industrial

construction sites throughout

Rumania--his sixth such trip in

the last two months. The exten-

sive Rumanian press coverage of

the trip is designed to show

both Rumania's rapid economic

growth and its broadening trade

contacts with the West.

The Rumanian public has

been officially informed för

the first time of the extent

of West European participation

in the construction of indus-

trial installations in Rumania.

It is also the first time that

detailed information has been

given to the public regarding

industrial installations.

Press

coverage divulges statistics on

production capacities. of the

various installations as well

as on the items they produce.

Information on the planning

and construction of the facto.-.

ries also is unusually detailed.

On 13 November the party

visited slatina, the site of

an aluminum plant whose con-

struction is just beginning.

According to the Rumanian press,

the plant ultimately will have

an annual production capacity

of 50,000 tons of aluminum and

alloys and will be completed in

the next 18 months with help of

a French firm. Other sources

NBR

indicate, however, that the

French firm is assisting in con-

struction of the first stage of

the plant, which will have a

30,000-ton capacity. ' Equipment

is being provided by several

West European countries, the

press reported.

The Craiova chemical com-

bine will include 14 factories

having a capacity of about 300,-

000 tons of ammonium nitrate

fertilizer and 100,000 tons of

urea, according to

the press

which also reported that the

ammonia, nitric acid, and ammo-

nium nitrate factories--planned

and equipped by the USsh-- are

over two thirds completed.

Belgium, Holland, and West

Ger-

many are supplying equipment

for portions of the combine.

From various sources it is

known that during 1960-61 West-

ern firms added several catalytic

refining installations to the

Brazi oil refinery, built in

1934. The Rumanian press now

reports that the rumanians re-

cently completed construction

of a crude: 011 distillation

unit with a three-million-ton

capacity.

This unit will

boost

the plant's capacity from 1.5

million tons to 4.5 million tons

per year.

Brazi is one of the

three major refineries in which

Rumania plans to concentrate

its refining capacity.

The press

NBI

26 Nov 63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page 5

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

also indicated that additional

facilities to be built at Brazi

will include a number of petro-

chemical installations:

ethylene-propylene plant prob-

ably purchased from Italy, a

polyethylene plastics plant from

the UK, and, an ethylene oxide

and ethylene glycol unit from

Italy.

Brazi, along with another

combine at Borzesti, will be the

main centers for chemical pro-

duction based on petroleum.

Dej also visited numerous

other industrial installations

which have received both Western

and Soviet equipment and assist-

ance.

In reporting the progress

of construction at these plants,

however, the Rumanians gave more

attention to the Western assist-

ance than to the Soviet contribu-

tions.

The belated open recognition

of

the Western role in Rumania's eco-

nomic development undoubtedly re-

flects Rumania's desire to expand

further its trade ties with the

West.

Rumanian officials have con-

stantly reiterated Bucharest's

interest in purchasing modern tech-

nical machinery and equipment. (SE-

CRET)

it test 605

Pon E54781713903 18 Nine's

NBR

NISh

26 NOv 63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page 6

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

COMMUNIST ASIA

Peiping Approaches Cambodian

Crisis caretully

The Chinese Communists are

South Vietnam, or Thailand.

Even

showing considerable caution

this high-sounding promise,

in their reactions to Prince

however, is carefully hedged

Sihanouk's apparently unsolicited

with a preliminary reference to

outbursts concerning his inten-

the 1954 Geneva agreements, sug-

sions to turn to them for aid,

gesting that "all-out support"

although they are attempting to

would be restricted to propa-

appear responsive to his position.

ganda calls for joint action

In a 21 November government state-

under the International Control

ment, the Chinese carefully

Commission and would not include

avoided any real commitment to

unilateral Chinese Communist

Cambodia and were studiously

military aid.

vague about the extent to which

they intend to support Sihanouk.

The Chinese hesitated for

over two weeks before issuing

their statement and they is-

sued it then because of the

pressure of a situation over

which they have no control.

The statement avoids the ques-

tion of economic or technical

aid. It does offer "all-out

support" for Cambodia in the

event of an invasion by the US,

While Peiping probably

could supplant US aid to Cam-

bodia, its

enthusiasm is appar-

ently

considerably dampened by

Sihanouk's unpredictability.

The Chinese are well aware that

previous expressions of similar

desires by Sihanouk were used

as pressure tactics to enhance

Cambodia's position. Although

in the present crisis sihanouk

appears more serious than in

earlier ones, the Chinese are

unwilling to

leap in before they

are certain of the outcome.

I (CONF IDENTIAL)

NBR

26

Nov 63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page

---

## Page 11

13-00000

6.

SECRET

SOUTHEAST ASIA

Viet Cong Activity in South

Vietnam

The accelerated tempo of

Viet Cong activity in the post-

coup period continues.

While the 149 Viet Cong

attacks recorded during the

week ending 18 November are

drop from the previous week's

record high of 233, the number

is still about 50 percent above

normal for this year. Most of

the attacks continue to be on

a small scale.

They are tar-

geted primarily against strate-

gic hamlets and outposts, with

government paramilitary forces

bearing the brunt. On 24 No-

vember,

however, a reportedly

large Communist force overran

a post northwest of Saigon

where special forces were

train-

ing under US auspices.

The Saigon government ap-

parently is proceeding with a

purge of military officers

holding high military, intelli-

gence, and provincial posts

under Diem.

announced the suspension of 31

officers.

Some of these are

under arrest. The purges may

be partly in response to the

demands of student and Buddhist

groups seeking revenge against

prominent figures who sided

with Diem during the Buddhist

crisis. (SECRET)

Soni: US ARMA CY-453, 27 Nan68 (Coop)

(out)

VIBR

26

Nov

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page

8

---

## Page 12

13-00000

NS

SECRET

NOTES

Communist China - Australia:

Communist China has contracted

for 1.1 million tons of grain

from Australia worth about $66

million--China's first major

grain purchase for 1964 delivery

The Australian announcement

stated that terms of the sale

were similar to previous Sino-

Australian grain deals.

China's

1963 grain crop will at

most be

no better than last year's medi-

ocre crop and thus China would

have to import more than the

5.5 million tons of grain it

bought last year from the West,

if it is to have available as

much grain per person.

(CONFI-

DENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

22 Mass (И

ow: FiRS Milacosmos 22, launched

from the Tyuratam rangehead on

16 November, was recovered on

22 November

during orbit 95.

Cosmos 22 is the eleventh Soviet

unmanned satellite to be re-

covered. All recoverable sat-

ellites have been launched from

the Tyuratam rangehead, and de-

orbited after three to

ten days

in flight.

(SECRET)

Japan: The 21 November

general election brought no

significant shift in the bal-

ance between the ruling Liberal

Democratic Party (LDP) and the

opposition leftist parties.

The small Democratic Socialist

Party's unexpected capture of

six seats more than it picked

up in the last election suggests

that it has increased its poten-

tial as a moderating force on

the left. LDP's slight loss

will make Premier Ikeda vulner-

able to attacks on the quality

of his leadership from rival

party factions.

(CONFIDENTIAL)

rian army officers reportedly

NEY

26 Nov 63

NA..

are plotting a coup against Pres-

ident Ben Bella, according to a

usually reliable clandestine

source. The source: claims that

Colonel Boumedienne, minister of

national defense and second most

influential man in Algeria, not

only supports but is leading the

plotters who, like the colonel,

represent military elements which

did not fight inside Algeria dur-

ing the revolution against France.

While there has been no public

clash between Boumedienne and Ben

Bella, there has been a growing

number of reports that a falling-

out between the two men may be im

minent, and Ben Bella has made ser

eral military appointments of latt

without consulting Boumedienne.

«SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

come,sleen t41 19432-23-24051631-4645

Yemen: For the second time?

this month an Egyptian aircraft

apparently has attacked Saudi ter-

ritory near the Yemeni bordere

A: Small village was bombed and#

strafed on 21 November, and the?

Saudis have formally complained tc

the UN Observation Mission and to

the US Embassy.

The Egyptian at-

tacks will probably increase Crowr

Prince Faysal's determination to

procure a mercenary air force to

defend Saudi Arabia after 4 Janu-

ary, when the latest extension of

the UN Mission's mandate expires.

(SECRET)

Cuba: Fidel Castro's

two-r

hour speech of 23 November on Pres

ident Kennedy's assassination re-

flects apprehension that US policy

toward Cuba may become even toughe

than in the past. He pointed out

that President Kennedy's alleged

promise not to invade Cuba has bee

strongly attacked by "reactionarie

and stated that the President's

death could lead from a bad situa-

tion to a worse one.

(CONFIDENTIA

dow" FBP5 /Judo 24 Nan (ou0);

SECRET

6/B

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page 10

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

SOUTHEAST ASIA

7.

Developments in Laos

A well-coordinated clearing

action launched north of Vien-

tiane on 21 November by neutral-

ist, Lao Army, and Meo guerrilla

elements has met with consider-

able success. Government forces

have secured Vang Vieng, 100g

held by the Pathet Lao.

Although an earlier push

by a similar combination of

government forces in the Plaine

des Jarres area did not attain

comparable successes, the Pathet

Lao position at sieng Khouang

town remains surrounded and

threatened.

Overt Communist reaction

to these developments has been

limited, thus far, to propaganda

blasts at the "perfidy" of the

neutralists in the current tenu-

ous series of negotiations.

There are, however, uncon-

firmed reports of North Viet-

namese troop reinforcements in

the Plaine des Jarres area. (SE-

CRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

done: C19 Viants 1865-5565501, ref-507, SoMan (Gz NES)

NER

26

NOV

63

SECRET

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE DIGEST

Page 9

---

