# 104-10216-10064

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10216-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

MESSAGETEIM

TOTAL COPIESS

ACANTINO AND/OR INITLAIS - SEEII BY

FORSYTHE: jng

UNITE

EXTI

DATES

N11/COG/CA/PP

5003/1085

23 AUGUST 67

CABLE SICRETARIAY DISSEMINATION

15 me

SECR

E T

COMP

WH/COG S

IX MID COPY

D

INDEX

A, NO INDEX

iNTO

fiLE

DIsTROr. ARTURN 1O.

FILE IN ES FILE NO.

BRANCH

201-41581V

FILE M1O

•VR

WH8, aloes

Joato and time disodi

(oluto)

treference numberl

Eatent

SECRET

TO 'JAWAVE

21 13Ї57

CITE DIRECTOR 3 0 2 8 6

7

7

ТУРІС АМОТ

REFS: A. UFGA 28312, 17 AUGUST 67*

B. DIRECTOR 19472, 15 JUNE 65 **

C. JMWAVE 2974, 15. JUNE 65 ***

•FI

ABSTRACT

1: PER REE A, PARA 2, DAVIDSON RELIEVED IDENTICAL WITH ISADORE

IRVING DAVIDSON, DPOB 19 JAN 1921, PITTSBURGE, PA. AND SUBJECT OF

REF B WHICH SUMMARIZED TRACES AS OF JUNE 65. AGGRESSIVE PUBLIC

RELATIONS AND INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMAN REGISTERED AS AGENT FOR

.. •NICARAGUA, ISRAEL, INDONESIA, ECUADOR AND HAITI AND CONTACT OF PRES.

BALAGUER OF DOM REP.

HAS HAD SOME CUBAN EXILE CONTACTS INCLUDING

THAT DESCRIBED REF C.

*:::

2. FILES SHOW DAVIDSON IMPLYING CONTACT WITH U.S. GOVERNHENT

"OFFICIALS AT "HIGHEST LEVEL" AS EARLY AS 1957 IN DEALINGS WITH

UNSUSPECTING CLIENTS, PARTICULARLY FOREIGNERS, AND HAS HAD NO

COMPUNCTIONS ABOUT INDICATING CLOSE CONNLCTIONS WITH STATE, FBI AND

WHITE

HOUSE

FEMOSMISOY

261-41581

END OF MESSAGE

23 we br

CONTINUED/

RELLASZITO OFFICES

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1

Included tra

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

•AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

"COrt Na.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

oxtes

UNITE

NID/N6G

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY_

CONTI.

RID COPY

MESSAGE PORIA,.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

Ass 25

3 17 PH 3%

INDEX

DESTROY

RITUAN TO_

NO INDEX

FILE IN ES FILE NO.

FILE

• VR

(dare and timo fiod)

POUTINE AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

10

BRANCH

FILE RUD;

та

classtasher

SECRET

WH COMMENT:

(ofite)

tralerence

sonates

CITE DIRECTOR 50286

7

*Requests identification of Davidson and info on

whether he is a U.S. government employee.

**Forwards Hqs traces to JMWAVE on Isadore Irving

Davidson as of June, 1965.

***Gerald Patrick Hemming, when drunk, told AMTABBY-27

that Irving. Davidson was his financial backer.

(ptart

7

1121

C/HE/COG/CA

C/NH/COG/MO 26

TERLING

IBLRASINO OFFICER

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

EARL

AC/WH/COG

GROUP 1

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

copY No.

---

