(104-10786-40114) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

eee CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

‘Thisrmatertaj contains Caformatinn afecting the National Defense of the Colted uuny witain the easing of tee Eapicnage Lane, Troe
1 UBC. Gee. TH end TH tbe Wrenamlaion OF Fervlation of Walch in Any meaner te um uneuincrtsed paren bn preateited Uy bm

* SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

countay Cuba aa © -RepoRT NO, CLT-316/01239-64 :
SUMECTNorberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo OATE DisTR, «=: 1:2: October 1964
. NO. PAGES 2 :
REFERENCES :
Date OF 1964 i i
Piya Washington, D. C.

‘pate ac@.October 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OLTINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

Source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments _

The following report. is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency. y

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1. Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo, pseudonyms "Bucareli" and
“Noel," is the officer in charge of the Guatemalan Desk in, the
Departanento de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation
Department - LN) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)..

2. Source first met HERNANDEZ in 1959 when they were
introduced by Ramon VAZQUEZ Montenegro. In mid-1959, HERNANDEZ ee
started working for the Cuban G-2 under the command of VAZQUEZ .
and Eduardo DELGADO.. When DELGADO was replaced as Chief of the
Check Up and Vigilance Bureau in 1960, HERNANDEZ was also

discharged from the G-2.

3. In late 1960 or early 1961, HERNANDEZ started working for
the Cuban Electric Company as a simple laborer for street work aloag
with another former G-2 member, "Pelencho." In 1960 or 1961,
there was a public demonstration by the employees of the Cuban
Electric.Company who were dismissed because they were suspected iz
as counter-revolutionaries; HERNANDEZ attacked the demonstrators
by hitting them with guns and arresting some of them. In front of

4 the Electric Company was a Communist Party site and HERNANDEZ s
4 visited these offices frequently and was usually seen in the sine,
3 company of new and old Communists. 3
i SECRET 2
1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM 1

[Soomsnatine RELEASES
WYX:LDee .
cH

WE 1 (2), Cl 4; RID1 |

ld Se



SEC
NO FoREYox BrsseM CSCI-316/01239-64

. -2-
‘ 4. In"December 1969;.Ramiro’ VALDES formed a group of twenty-five
men who were former monbers of the 26th of July Movemont in Habana
and former G-2 members. VALDES formed this group on the pretext of
an expected invasion- from Guatemala and-this group was to stay with
him if the invasion should take place. HERNANDEZ was a member of
tho. group. : : i

S$. HERNANDEZ- was transferred frpm the Cuban Electric Company to
the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security -
DSE) and later to the: DG.

6. In Septeiber 1963, HERNANDEZ ‘spent a day in. Jamaica “in order
to establish contact ‘with sone Dominicans who were, according to.
source's information, to be transported to Cuba. He once tried to
get to Mexico, but was défiied a visa.. HERNANDEZ studied for a.time
ina "Revolutionary Instruction" ” School in Habana; he seems to be very
Convinced about the government.

7. ERNANDEZ was born about 1939, is six fect one inch tall,
145 pounds, has a slim build,’.a fair complexion, and short hair. ‘He
is marriéd ‘and has a daughter who was born in 1962 or 1963. HERNANDEZ*
father lives in Camaguey. Province, his mother is dead. HERNANDEZ‘
addeess is 70th Street #908, between 9th and 11 Streets, Habana, Cuba;
his telephone number is 29-5927.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on HERNANDEZ.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

