ap

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

‘104-10186-10772

” CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

hETURNTO CUA pass narerat earns mteroation atnrung toe'pusonal Deus ofc Called Otte orale tae mtaning of the Beisaass Lave Tae
=

Background Use Only “"* "*< neces edt te eruneeten (> eerene,ar|wauen caren to 05 newtacrees. etten Ws etahluned A tx
Do Nat Reproduce a - xo FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba ‘REPORT NO. CLI-316/01238-64

SuBECT Jose REBELLON Alonzo OATE DISTR, 9 October 1964

iz : NO, PAGES, 2
REFERENCES
behead 1964
a Washington, D.C. -

PLACE
DATE aca. October 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.

pad i hahah eee tel ee
‘THiS 1g UNEVALUATED _INFOENATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DETINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.
Headquarters Comments :
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
dinformation from the records of this Agency. Hee

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Source identified Jose REBELLON Alonzo as President of the
Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria (University Student
Federation - FEU) and commented that. 18, hag gen,’ a el at
Manuel PINEIRO's home several times.)

Headquarter Comments

1. An untested source, in a report dated 8 July 1960, said that
Jose REVELLON was one of the student leaders at the University
of Habana; he was in the School of Engineering.

2, In a report dated 31 May 1961, a usually reliable source said
he was told by an untested source that Jose REBELLON Alonso,

a student in the School of Engineering at the University of
Habana, was a Communist.

3. A Cuban national, untested, stated in a report dated 26 March

1962, that Jose REBELLON, a captain in the Army is the
Director General of the Becados (students who have réceived

scholarships) at the University of Habana.

SECRET [tatesed bow meaner]
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Sa

He neen

(sare Tora CoC TC Tosa TWX Tees Tar z |

i REP CINCLANT. C1NCSO # I&NS

[Ra Fatl dries eure by "37D

Nera ead
KO PROJECT (AINU
SCI-316/01238~



(py

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01238-64

An untested source in a report dated S July 1962 said that Jose
REBELLON Alonso, recently elected president of the FeHforacion
Estudiantil Universitaria (FEU), a Cuban university student group,
was scheduled to leave Cuba on 19 June 1962 for Canada. The
reason’ for the trip was to attempt to reach an agreement with the
University Student Federation of Canada which wants to break
relations,with the FEU. He was to pass through Mexico either. on

his way to Canada. or ep his return trip. .

an lin a report dated 5 Octobor 1962,
Stated that Joso REBELLON Alonso was ono of a group of Cuban
students who arrived in Kingston from Habana on 25 June 1962 and
proceeded to Toronto on 26 June 1962 to attend gn International
Conference of Students. ° REBELLON was listed as having been born
on 7 August 1936 in Holguin, Oriente, Cuba, —_ his home address
was given as the University of Hbbana.

A fairly reliablo source, in a report dated 3 April 1963, stated
that Jose REBELLON Alonso, leader of the FEU, is very close to
Fidel CASTRO‘and very opposed to Juan MARINELLO Vidaurreta, Rector

of the University of Habana.
: te

In a report dated 5 September 1963, an educated Cuban whose
reliability has not yet been established, stated that as of late
June 1962, Comandante Jose REBELLON Alonso was Director of Plans
for Latin American Scholarships, Commission of Foreign Relations,
Partido Unico Revolucitonario Socialista (United Revolutionary
Socialist Party - PURS) and also president of tho FEU.

According to a report dated 26 March 1964, Jose REBELLON Alonso was
ordered to proceed to Europe to coordinate efforts on a now

milk plan which was announced by Fidel CASTRO. REBELLON was
designated to head up this new milk plan.

An untosted source, in a report dated 28 July 1964, stated that
as of 6 July 1964, it was planned for Major Jose REBELLON Alonso, ff
Secretary of the FEU, to leave the University of Habana somotime
in 1964. Source said it was possible that Joaquin MAS Martinez

would replace REBELLON as president.

SECRET °-:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM ,
