# 104-10510-10139

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10510-10139

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

A. VARGAS. M. D.

DIS RAGT OrM AVENUR

MIALLAN. PLORIDA

PHONE 800.8410

6

Copy of sischarge Summary or (ilgoberto Peroz)

This 36 year old shite nale vas cdmitted to the hospital because.

of secondary anenla. In Ducenber of 1965 ho had a cystectogy for

carcinona oi the bladder. To ureters were then transplanted into

the.roctuj.to foru a ner bladder.

The borol as cut. off abovo this

point, the sigmold was laudillized and brought down antorior to what

would be the new bladder messing it through the anal sphincter 3o

that in effect he had a nes anus placed anterior to the ner bladder.

The new bladdor has as its coint of exit what had been

physiological

anus..

This surgery. was done by Dra. Fubln, Winton and Needell.

ADoroximatelr

one weck or 10 days later he

developed a mass in the

richt lover quadrant and I is called to sec him and the mass in tho

richt lower quadrant was diagnosed as pericecal abscess and It was

opened and drained.

The

-ass subsided and this situation cleared.

up completely.

Approximately Is monthe orior to this last

hospitalization, he ras resdal-ted to Jackson Memorial Hospitel

because he was pissing sone blood through the new rectum and he

had had a drop in ligb.

Fe also developed numerous pertanal fistulae

and he ras sassing gas and leces through the fistulous openings as

well as throuch the penis. I is axain called and elected to do

• transverse colostomy to cliar up theso fistulas..

This was done

and the colostony was functioning perfectly:

It has resulted in

tne drying up of all the perineal fistulae.

The patlent came to

ay offico the day. before adsission to the hospital and on this

occasion. he conplained.of botra nauseated and not being able to

leup nything on his stonach and of feeling very look.

He was

very pale.

als Hb: done In the office was read as 45g.

He uas

then admitted to Blaleah Hosoltal and a G.I..

geried revealed ithe

caistence of a duodenal ulcer.

All other studies vere essentially

nogative other than the persistence of a fistula between

the new

recium and the penis.

Sinca aduission to the hospital he has

received transfusions and has bean placed on diet and medication.

He has improved renarkabay, reels very well now and 18 being

discharged to. be followed in the offico.

1. Vargas,

M. D.

UNDATED: Received froa

FILE:

6

(PERFZ0201

file

19-124-25/5-2

"on 16 May 1966

---

