# 104-10169-10093

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10093

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

To

DISPATCH

Chief of Statics, JUWAVE

CLASSIFICATION

SECBET

PROCESSING ACTION

ALARKED FOR INDEXINO

INO.

NO INDEXINO REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESX

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chlol, Nestern Henisphere

SUBICO OperavIonal TYPIC/ Transmittal AMRAZZ-1 letter to Mr. Richard

Goodwin

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Aotion Required: FYI and any action deenod necessary.

I. Forwarded undor separato cover 1a a self explanatory lette

written by AMRAZZ-1 to Mr. Blchard Goodwin at the White House

1n vashington. .

The letter was passed by HT. Goodwin to Headquarters far

our snioraation and action.

leadquerters presumes that the letter should be al

laterent to station MilAVE, and to the AMRAZZ-1 Case Officer.

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

•Attachsenta:

Distrlbution:

9 - FAVE, M/att

CROUP!

Exchide! lion salematle

Empo, to

it titler

DISPATEM ATMBOL AND NUMBEX

UFON -5111

GASIFICATION

201-308736

DATE

MY 1965

10 KAY 85

HOT FILE NUMER

301-308738

ORICINATINO

OfFiCE

HH/C/CA/PP CAlico Gonzales

Edar 03.

OFFICE ATARMUL

DAIN

TOTTICON'D NAMA

Frist 55703

BAr,

109]

POM SO VAR ARAVIOUARDITION

2.90

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

•COTERNAL

CON

E OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

-

DENTIAL

I SECRET

DK

SUBICT: ¡Optarial)

FROM

PH/C/CA/

6678

DaTe

UFGH 5111

10 MY 65

ТО: Юбка и

DATE

CMH/C/CA

AMAL

R

СМН/С/мО

DCW HD/C

BI D

& P

.10.

610 YonC

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

IMTERMAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

