# 104-10169-10121

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10121

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECHET

FF.D.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

HNETRUSTIENS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Sect. 2.

on back. Detach bacis

flap and forward to RID.

2.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

rocords significant action takes or

comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

- TO: ACTION BRANCH

If silo no, and title showa are not

proper. lasert proper file no. belor

and fu:Tand document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN RECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

•TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED FORMI

OTTIK%:

MN

SR/ C1 X

C/SA/cI (FYI)

7.

Fa restate

sile"

C

C

10.

11.

12.

13.

88.

TIF INDEXED

RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RED FOI

TOMICHOTILMING DEFORE IT_IS FILED, THI

LOCUMENT IS TO BU RESTRICTED TO

1,110P1 - GCS1 HES

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICHOPILMED

ABSTRACT

INDEX

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBLA (PRIMARY SUDA)

DOCUMENT DAT!

211oshl,v

DOCUMINT NUMBER

FGOA 18318

---

## Page 2

14-00000

У11 ПЕТАРЕ

DISPATCH

Cantimetion

CLASSARICATION

S-E-C-R-I-T/RYBAT

т0

CHIEF, EE

INFO

CHIEF

MUNICH LIAISTiN BASE

CHIEF' OF BASE, 3CV°

FROM

CHIEF OF STATION

GERMANE

RYBAT/AZLADLE/LCIMEROVE/ZRTORCH

CPS/FUTURE PLANING RE AELADLE

ACTION REQUITTED • RUFERENCIS

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARILE FOR INDEAURE

NO INDLAITS LEQUINO

NASQUANTERS DESA

CAN MOG IMODUSS

ABSTRACT

MICKOF ILM

Pisto

THE POSTPONEMENT OF AELADLE'S DEBRIEFING BY THE GERMAN

REPRESENTATIVES HAS AFFORGID US A BREATHING SPELL OF WHICH WE WOULD

LIKE TO TAKE ADVANTACE SY ASKING YOU A FEW QUESTIONS.

• WE UNDERSTAND

FROM CARSON AND NEiPETH THAT AELADLE WAS SCHEDILED TO BE SURFACED IN

THE NEAR FUTURE AND THAT THIS WOULD HAVE A GREAT IMPACT ON MOST NATO

COUNTRIES... DO YOU INTEND TO DISCUSS THE SURFACINS WITH THE GERMANS

IF AND WHEN THEY COME TO WASHINGTON.

WOULD YOU BE KIND

ENOUGH TO GIVE US SUFFICIENT FORWARNING OF THE IMPENDING SURFACING

INCLUSIVE OF SCENARIO AND BACKGROUND INFORMATION. TO ENABLE US

NGAGE IN INFORMATIVE DISCUSSIONS WITH OUR

IF WOULD ENHANCE OUR POSITION WITH OUR.

BOTH //

TAND AMERICAN WERE BLANSER MOST DE GESTIE

WHICH MIGHT ARISE FROM PUBLIC STATEMENTS MADE BY AELADLE EVEN IF THE

CONCERN COUNTERES AND MATTERS NOT OF IMMEDIATE CONCERN TO WEST

GERMANY PER SE.

EXPERIENCE HAS TAUGHT US

FOR INSTANCE

BY HIỄH LEVEL DEFECTORS WILL PROMPT DESI AND EVEN CINCUSAREUR TO

THAT PRESS UT"-RANCiS

REQUEST BACKGROUND AND OTHER INFORMATION FROM CHIÏF OF STATION

GERMANY •

IF POSSIBLE WE WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE TO REPRESENT OUR

HEADQUARTERS IN A KNOWEDGIABLE MANNER -- USAREUR SELDOM RELIES ON

3. AN EARLY ANSWER WOULD BE MUCH APPRECIATED.

AROLEAT. ALBANC

DISTRIBUTION

BY TAPE

2-EE

2-MLB

Z-80NN

BY POUCH

1-WASH

CHOOS RUTL

DATE TYPED

21 SEP ú2

DISPATOH TYMDOL AND MUMBER

DATE DISPATCHED

TOK-

EGO1..18318

HADQUARTENS FILE NUMATILA

0-7?

2it agiling

3-E-C-Ñ-E-T/RYUAT

3/BR

---

