‘104-40186-10313] {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRO maternal qvataine Information atecting the Xe
URC Seve 283 ant TH the tranamiaive oe 7m

NO PORETGS DISsEM !

counter Cuba RePoRT NO. = CS-311/'03392-64

sumect. Policy Guidance Directives DATE DISTR, 21 September 1964
for Cuban Intelligence \ oer
Representatives in Honduras NO. PAGES 10 !

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64 EF
CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF ©1964 :
INFO, aan RETURN TO CIA

: PLACE & : ‘ Background Use Only
DATE ACQ_(June_1964) FIELO_REPORT NO. ‘ lot Reprodiics:

THIS 65 UNEVALUATED INTODATION SOURCE GEADINGE ATE DU/INITIVE. APPAASAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

source. A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a 7
locument provided Source, containing the policy guidance
directive of the Cuban General Directorate of Intelligence
(Pireccion General de Inteligencia = DGI), MA Department,

for Cuban intelligence representatives in Hondur The MA
Department no longer exists as such, having Leen divided

into two departments: Illegal Department, (legal) and

National Liberation Department (Liberac ion Saclonal - LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION

COUNTRY: HONDURAS

1, Collective action.
Situation of the leftist forces.

The Communist Party of Honduras,

» Armed Forces. H

2
3

4. Counterrevolutionary training camps and bases of operations.
5

6. Position of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.
7

Movement of solidarity with Cuba,

S-E-C-R-E-T : >
NO FOREIGN DISSEX

rere
meena

Es

J UX=-21701
a {NP (AMMUG-1)
——- im CS-311.03392-6.

ich cir,
xé au (19) AES

a ee is).



Gp

Hdgrs Dissem

WH COPS
WH POA
WH PO 5
WH
WH 2
WH. 3
WH V
wt
WHS
WHE
WH/R

WH/SA EOB
WH/SA WOB
WH/SA-R
WH/SA Int
WH/SA CI
WH/SA SO/NS

e
POR BOR AUR Re RRP e eR Gee ee

cr /Staft
CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN

AF/L
AF/2
AF/3
AF/4

BOR ee

AF/R
AF/CL
EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
EE/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/IIS

reerenetoreto)

Be eee eee ke

FE/PMI 1
FE/JKO JO
FE/JKO X
FE/VNC VN
FE/R
FE/CI

NE/AA LES
NE/AA AP
NE/AA ©
NE/AA I
NE/S/P
NE/6.C&T
NE/Tatel
NE/CI

WE/L
WE/2

we

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEW

-la-

WE/3
WE/4
WE/S
WE/BC
WE/R

SR/CI
sr/cr x
SR/RR
SR/O/WR..

fe rt nt pt

Field Dissew_

WH/MEXT
WH/SNTY
- WH/MRID-
WH/SDOM
WH/PIBO
WH /POSN
WH/KNGS
WH/PRIN
| WH/GORG
WH/PACY
WH/MANA
WH/SJOS
WH/SALV
Wit /TEGU
| WH/GUAT
WI/LAPA
WH/BOGO
WH/QUIT
WH/GAYA
WH/LIMA
WH/CARA
WH “BUEN
WH/COBA
WH/MONT
WH “ASUN
WH/SAGO
WH/RIOD
WH /CURT
WH /BRIL
Wt ‘SAOP
WH/BHTA
WH -BEHO
WH/LGRE
WH ‘RECT

&

Se Dae re et Dad hat Dat Da pt PD fat Pd PD al a Pt

o

WH 'SA/WAVE

AF/ALGI
AF/ORNA
|} AF/RABA
AF ‘CAS
AF ACCR
AF CNRY-
AF BAKO
AF. DARE

pererererrrere)

f£

EE, VIEN

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE

ay

CS-311 O3I92-G4

EE SEUR
EE CYRU
EE ATHE
EE KAVA
EE SLON
EE BERN
EE.GNVA
EE 2UR1
EE -HAMB
FE Wak
FE NEDN
FE ‘SCRA
FE TOKY
FE OKIB
FE“SEOU
FE“SAIG
FE.KOBE

7 NE/COLO
NE /NEWD
NE BGONB
NE ‘CALC
NE/NDRS:
NE-XUWA
NE/KANT
NE, DAC
NE ‘LAHO
NE -RAWL
NE- BAGH
NE-BEIR -
NE DAMA
NE/ALEP
NE“JIDD
NE/DAHA,
NE TAIZ
NE ‘CAIR
NE/ALEX

WE-BRUS
WE “COPE
WE ANELS.
WE ‘OTTA
{WE ‘ROME
WE. MILA
WE HAGU
WE.‘OSLO
WE/LISB
WE MADR,
WE/BARC 7
| WE/STOC
WE ‘LOND
WE/PARI

Tiaison Dissen

IE (asa) ite
RCMP:
lee

LANtSH

on

=.

Ft tae a tat tae at tt tat et Pt ta el at pa Pp

ee—C““EDD

epererererererer ener yorerey

t
1


9.
10.

ll.

12.
13,
14.

15.
16.

17.

18.
19.

20.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE

~24 | €8+311/03392-64

‘Counterrevolutionary organizations.
CIA and repressive organizations.
Relations with the USA.

Internal political life of the country.

The elections.

The Church.
Internal situation of the Armed Forces.

IMPORTANT:
The Prensa Latina and its functioning.

Functioning, characteristics, and data on the members of
the Foreign Service and of the Diplomatic Corps
accredited in the country.

NECESSARY:

Structure of the government and the operation of its
organisms,

The press.

Search for collaborators who would inform on the state
of the National Economy.

The frontier question.

INTELLIGENCE DIRECTIONS AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY: HONDURAS

IMPERATIVE
COLLECTIVE ACTION:

a) Agreements made by Central American or Latin American
organizations, in which Honduras takes part, directed
at collective military or political aggression against

Cuba.

b) Participation and preparation of the army which jill
participate in the aggression; the number of men and
armaments which they have on hand.

c) Secret or public meetings, political or military,
which take place in Honduras, in which tne countries
of the zone take part; the theme and agreements of

these meetings.

-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



d)

e)

f)

8)
h)

S$-F-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN
-3- : CS-311/03392-64

The government's plans for provocative operations
intended to present the attack or the intervention

by Cuba in domesttc questions.

Joint military manoeuvres which take place in i
Honduras, Armies which take part in these, :
strength. Concentrations of foreign troops

in the country.

Agreements reached by the Central American arm:
in order to act jointly in cases of wars for
national liberation. Participation of Honduran
units in operations of this type.

Measures taken regarding trips to or from Cuba. . ... :

Possibilities of a break with Cuba by countries”
now maintaining relations with it.

SITUATION OF THE LEFTIST FORCES

Political organizations: strength, leaders, program,

The student movenent: University Reform Front (FRU) -
organization, strength, leaders, relations with
progressive political organizations, the work which

Teachers’ Front of Unity and Action: strength,
organization, leaders, the work it accomplishes.

Labor organizations: structure, strength, degree
Position of the Communist Party with respect to

the union of the Central American parties in relation
Other progressive forces: work, organization, and

Repressive activities against the leftist forces.

’
Permanent and periodical contact with the lator, -
student, and teachers’ politicel organizations

Position toward the Second Havana Declaration.

a relations among themselves, ties with other
progressive organizations.
b)
they do,
©)
da)
of unity, imperialist penetration, etc.
e) Possibilities of spontaneous demonstrations.
f)
to the development of guerrilla warfare.
8)
strength,
h)
i) Propaganda media of the leftist forces.
J)
of the left.
THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF HONDURAS
a)
b) Position on Cuban-Soviet relations.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-4- : CS-311/03392-64
¢) Position toward the lines followed b7 Cuba in the
national and international political order.

d) Position in relation to the conflicts in the
International Commusist Movement:

1. In, the case of China and the USSR,

2. In the case of Albania and the USSR.

3. In the Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania question,
4. In the peace probler. :

S. In reference to peaceful co-existence.

e) Internal situation of the Party: : the
1. Strength; areas of greatest influence.
2. Loaders (Data on these leaders.) i
3. Disagreements. : Arguments of the different groups.

f) Relations with the Revolutionary Party.

g) Relations with other leftist organizations. i

h) Work in the mass organizations. Influence in ‘
these organizations. Work in the rural areas,

4) Lines of struggle officially adopted ky the Party.

J) Relations with the bourgeois parties. Participation
in the political life of the country.

k) Work of solidarity with Cuba.

1) Position with respect to the unification of the
Central American Communist Parties in relation
to the development of guerrilla warfare.

m) Media of publicity of the Communist Party.

n) Establishment of permanent and periodic contacts
with this party.

0) Attitude toward guerrilla warfare in Central
America.

COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY TRAINING CAMPS AND BASES OF OPERATIONS

a) Training camps of Cuban mercenaries. Location of these
camps; training’ camps in Sta, Rosa de Coban and Campo
Trujillo. Characteristics of these camps. Type of
training and its duration. Number of mercenaries.
Counterrevolutionary organizations who participate in
the training. Elements of-these organizations who are
at the head of these camps.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-S- CS-311/03392-64

b) Counterrevolutionary bases of operation in the country.

Ships or other. type of war transport found in these

. bases. Localization of counterrevolutionary: elements
‘who are at the head of these bases. Plans of aggression
and their objectives. Dates of the departure and return
of-the ‘ships: [t must be-admitted that there is.”

. confident ia information that Hondiiras is one” the!
countries which might be used against our coasts.
Elements of the CRC, during the crisis, went there in
order to co-ordinate the departure of these ships. ©...

c) Utilization of the camps and tases of ‘the Army of
Honduras in counterrevolutionary activities, Presence
of Cuban counterrevolutionary. elements in these place
conditions undér which they operate.

5. ARMED FORCES

a) Organization. Units and strength. Armaments and
transport. Bases and quarters. Leaders of the

Armed Forces.
. b) Appropriations. Appropriation to each branch.

c) Secret agreements with the US or other Central
, Amer i and Latin American countries. Points of

these agreenents.

d) Yankee military missions. Number, names and ranks,
and function of their personnel. Strategy they have
developed within the Armed Forces of Honduras.

e) Units and effectives of the Armed Forces, available
in the CDCA,

f) Military units and strength with anti-guerrilla

training. “Training time of these units. Armaments
and transports. Officers in command. Combat preparation.
Bases of these units. Location. :

xy) Other special battalions; for example, RANGERS. Data
on these.

h) New arms acquired by the Armed Forces. Characteristics
and quantity. +

i) Changes introduced in war materiel.

6. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION

a) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) With regard to Cuban-Soviet relations in matters which
affect Cuta and World Peace.

c) With regard to the accusations that Cuba (5 a base
of Communist aggression against the Latin American

Continent,

E-T
DISSEM



THE
a)

SOLIDARITY. MOVEMENT WITH CUBA.

»)

: ‘COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

a)”

b)

ce)

a)

CIA

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-6- CS-311/03392-64

Learn if the solidarity movenent ha:
tr

an ofgaitzation=
how does it function, who are its. ers, etc.” :

fers, ete

Learn the possibilities of active demonstratioi
solidarity of the progressive ‘organizations.

Delegations of counterrevolutionary organizations
functioning in the country; their leaders and ‘i
activities. Contacts with political parties through:
which they get established. Contacts with the. Y:
Embassy and CIA, -Persons entrusted with-t

contacts. Contact with the govérnment of thé country.

Contacts between Ville Morales and the CRC in exile.
The ékemént which maintains these contacts. Contacts
between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of this country
and the counterrevolutionary elements exiled the:
Activities of Lozada Montes and Evaristo Fernand

Means of broadcasting counterrevolutionary propaganda
in the country; contacts of the counterrevolutionaries
with the heads of newspapers and radio stations, the
help which they receive from the latter,

Type of communication which exists between the CRC
in Honduras and that in Miami; through whom are the
communications estatlished; and, what medium is used
for it.

\ AND REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS

a)

b)

3)

d)

e)

Activities of the repressive groups of Honduras
against Cuba and the National Liberation movements.

Co-ordination existing between the repressive groups

of Central America for these actions: joint agreements
and plans; objectives; co-ordination meetings; place and
date in which propositions are made; elements who
participate for the various countries.

Cuban counterrevolutionary elements who participate
in the repressive activities; their names and
functions; actions which they may have carried out.

CIA, Yankee Agaders of the CIA in Honduras. Activity
of Str. Donn&$9 his plans, participation of the police
and repressive organizations of Honduras in his contacts
with them, National elements who work with CIA,’ tasks
and functions. Plans of these eiements, office of the
cla and places for training its nationalist agents.

Recruiting of the CIA in Honduras for work in Cuba,
such as in the case of Ernest Roy Wenitzauer Morazan;
their names and plans to be carried out in Cuba;
training piaces for these recruits,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


. : S-E~C-R-E-T
: NO FOREIGN DISSES

-7- CS-311/03392-64

f) Participation of the leaders of the CIA in co-
ordinating the repressive act'vities in Central
America.- Elements of the CIA who participate
in the meetings.

g) Contact with the Interpol. Co-ordination with the
Interpol. Restrictive measures on trips to Cuba.

Agents.
lu. RELATIONS WITH THE USA

: : \ a) Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps.
b) Relations with US credit organizations.

c) Political influence of the United Fruit Co. Means
of, ideological penetration.

d) The US Embassy. Data on the activities of the
Ambassador and on the Embass; personnel,

11, INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE OF THE COUNTRY
a) The bourgeois political parties: composition,
strength, propaganda media, leaders (data on them),
programs, internal divisions.

b) Relations of the bourgeois political parties with
the US monopolies, the Embassy, and the Church,

ec) Relations of the bourgeois parties with the
Armed Forces.

d) The anti-Communist campaigns: arguments, attacks
on Cuba, leaders. :

e) The Fascist groups: organization, members, leaders,
participation of the Church, the government, and
the Yankee Embassy.

f) The secret fraternal organizations: their relations
with the government, the Church, the monopolies, and ~
the Yankee Embassy.

12, THE ELECTIONS
a) Candidates.

b) Electoral activities of the-bourgeois political
parties. : ,

c) The electoral campaign of the government.

d) The activities of the Church in relation to the
elections.

e) Influence of the tanana companies and of the United
States in the elections.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


13.

14.

15.

f) Attitude of the

&) Attitude of the Armed Forces with respect to the ©

elections.

THE cHURCH

S
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-8-

leftist forces toward the elections.

a) €cclesiastic hierarchy.

b) Position and controversies between the national

and foreign clergy.

ce)
of the country.

a) Secular organizations of the Church (such as the
* Catholic Working Youth, Catholic Cavaliers, etc.).

e) The Church's campaigns against Cuba.
ft) The Church's penetration in rural life, labor, and

youth.

2)
of the US.

h) Relations and influence in the Armed Forces.

i) Relations with

Participation of the Church in the internal politics

Relations between the plans of the Church and those

the government,

k) Influence in education.

INTERNAL SITUATION

OF THE ARMED FORCES

a) Data on the military leaders and on their activities.
b) Coup groups within the Armed Forces.

c) Ideological preparation for the Armed Forces:

Material and arguments used.

d) Data on soldiers belonging to international organi-
zations (JID - Inter-American Defense Board, UN) and
attachés in and of Latin American

of the military
countries,

IMPORTANT
THE LATIN PRESS (PL:

) AND _ITS FUNCTION

a) Activities of t!
b) Possibilities t
1. Use of the

2. Political a
of PL. The

he correspondents.

o use them for our work:
PL services.in the press of the country. '

nd journalistic deficiencies in the work;

PL Branch.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/03392-64



‘ : : S-E-C-R-E-T
a u NO FOREIGN DISSEN

: : -9- CS-311 '03392-64

3. Matters which are neither handled. nor troadcast
properly (on events of interest and importance
happening in Cuba) by the PL Branch.

4. Suggestions and ways on how to use or to imporve
the work of the PL Branch, in general or in
concrete forms,

16. ‘FUNCTION, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA ON NEWBERS OF TRE
FOREIGN SERVICE AND OF THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED

X_THIS COUNTRY,

a) UN,
b) OAS and JID.
c) Officials in and of Latin American countries.

NECESSARY
17, STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND OPERATION OF ITS ORGANISMS.

a) Relations between the Presidency and the Ministries.

b) Function of Congress. Most important figures.
Relations with the Yankee Embassy and the monopolies.
Representation of the bourgeois parties and of the

social classes.
c) Data on the people closest to Ramon Villeda Morales.

d) The Judicial Power: persons in high positions.
Important laws. Repressive laws. Relations of the
Judicial Power with other powers.

e) Other government organs: their function,

f) Necessity of obtaining collaborators who prepare
reports on the questions pointed out here.
18. THE PRESS

a) Data on the newspapers and the broadcasting organs.
Possibility of utilizing the newspapers in the
country and abroad,

19, SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO YOULD INFORN ON THE STATE
OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY

a) New economic policy of the United Fruit Co. zi

b) US investments.
c) Other capital (not US) and its influence.

d) Trend of the unemployment level.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN, DISSEM


$-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-10- CS-311/03392-64

e) Relations of the country in regard to Central
American economic integration.

f) Necessity of obtaining collaborators who would
Periodically inform us on the economic questions.

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO WOULD INFORN US ON THE

FRONTIER QUESTION.

a) Dispute with Nicaragua for the zone of Segovia.
b) The dispute for the Belize territory.

c) Frontier situation of “Fonseca" eave Legal
and illegal entrance.

S-E-C~-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

