# 104-10056-10128

## Page 1

AMAAA

1104-10056-10128

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN E KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•SECRET

CL. Pr: 006687

PEPION/UNIT NOT ISSO

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUEDISLOTTES

ACTION UNIT

LA 10

ACTION +

eY

AT

FILE, VR, ENTEEERECSBREESE IP/DMS, IID, POS/INT ,

CI 4, CA 4, SIM. JIA/IC, REFR 5.

т 208158

E14697

PAGE E1

TOR: 282058Z SEP 77

AGENCY MESSAGE

ia /

IN 416872

KNGS

22958

SECRET ZBIOLZ SEP 77 INTEL

HUK-7E3

CITE KINGSTON 2295&

TO: DIRECTOR,

Olis

WNINTEL INTEL REAM

SUFDATA: EPHAHDO FOR HOS REVIER, PROJECT SLEEPER. SLHORIZONTH

FROM FERSONAL KAGWLEDE, NOT PASSED LILISON. NOT

FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON, THIS REPORT SHOULE NOT RET

NOT EE FLESEO TO GNGRAPH. O.D. OBU NEL, INDEX:

BRONN, MUNROE, FILE: 100E-C. 20I-BE7E262. CL BY

056245, FJK-733.

FILED:

2339453

122010 14

60

092

11.902

= =

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE 28 "SEPTEMBER 1577

IN

416072

PAGE 1 OF4 PAGES

• WARNING NOTICE

"SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

-The foliowing repori, tronsmitted from o ClA field station, requires teriew within the Directorate of Operations before being used

in any other document.or publication,orreleased-outside-the-Agency.-Fending-results. of this rexiew, @copy is provided for.your

-advance information.

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO

E-2 IMPDET CL 8Y 007622

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIENCE

"SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT PELEASAELE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRASTORI

CONSULTANTS--D IS SE MINATI ON AND EXTRACTION DE INFORMATION

CONTROLLED EY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY:: CUERGJAMAICL

DO !:

SER TENDER-DETGBER 1977

SUBJECT: CLOSED MEETING OF MEMEERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

DF QUER AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON ON

24 SEPTEMSER 1977.

ICO:

JAMAICh, KINGSTON SZE SPIEMBER 1977 REPORT NO. HJK-735

SOURCE: A CUEEN OFFICIAL VISITING HMICA, HE WAS PRESENT

T THE MEETING DESCRIBED BELOW, ALTHOUGH IT 1S

BELIEVED THAT HE ACCURATELY REPORTS NHAT HE HAS

SEEN TOLD, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

1. ON Z4 SEPTEMBER 19TT, ENRIQUENONTER

LEZOARD, MINISTER-COUNSELLOR OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON,

ADDRESSED THE REGULAG MONTHLY MEETING OF THE MENGERS OF THE

---

## Page 3

13000V1

-EDITIONS

IN 416072

TDFIR

• WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(classitication)

...FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

RAMON P E Z FERRO, WHU RETURNED TO CUBA ON VACATION ON

21 SEFTEMBER, THE MEETING TOOK PLACE AT THE EMBASSY:

2, MONTERO SAID THAT INTERNAL DIVISIONS WITHIN THE

RULINE PEOPLE'S NATIONAL PARTY INPO OF JAMAICA KAD

RE SUL TED

IN THE RESIGNATION OF D. K. DUNCAN AS PNE GENERAL

SECRETARY AND MINISTER OF MOBILIZATION. MONTERO SAID THAT

THE AFPOINTMENT OF RALPHER OWN AS THE NEW PNE GENERAL

SECRETARY HAD BEEN GENERALY WELL-RECEIVED WITHIN THE PNE.

MONTERO DESCRIBED BROWN ME A MATURE EXPERIENCED PARTY.

OFFICIAL WHO WOULD BE DELE TO SERVE AS A "MODERATOR" BETHEEN

THE "RIGHTISTS, " "MODERATES" AND "LEFTISTS" OF THE PNE.

3, MONTERO COMPLAINES THRT THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD

EXPLCITED BROWN'S RECENT TREE TO CUSA FOR ITS "CAMPLIGN OF

CONFUSION", IN FAILING TO REPORT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIP,

THE PRESS. IMPLIED THAI THERE WERE UNKNOWN, SINISTER

MOTIVES SEHIND IT.

MONTERE SAID THAT BROWN HAD BONE TO CUBA

MERELY IN DROP TO ATTEND THE FIRST CONGRESS OF THE CUBAN

COMMITTEES FOR THE DEFENSE DE THE REVORUTION CEDRI, TO BE

Ken buds act

---

## Page 4

13-00000

IN 424072

TDFIP.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

-SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

classification!

(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO THE PRESS, BROWN LEFT JAMAICA

ON 23 SEPTEMEER FOR A THIBEE-DAY VISIT TO CUBA, THE PURFOSE

OF WHICH WAS NOT INDICATED. ON THE NICHT OF 27 SEPTEMBER,

IT WAS REPORTED ON JAMAI

CAN TELEVISION THAT BROWN HAD MADE

A STATEMENT CONCERNINE HIS TRIP FOLLOWING HIS RETURN THAT

DAY TO JAMAICA, HE SAID HE HAD GONE TO CUBA SOLELY IN

ORDER TO ATTEND THE COR CONGRESS, AND HE CRITICIZED THE

DISTORTED MANNER IN WHICH THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD REPORTED

ON HIS TRIP!

4, MONTERO BRIEFLY ADDED THAT DR, TREVOR MUNROE,

LELDER OF THE WORKERS! LIBERATION LEGEUE SULLO, TRAVELED TO

CUEL FROM JAMAICA ON ZE SEPTEMBER! HE DID NOT INDICATE THE

PURPOSE OF MUNROE'S VISIT TO CUBA, FINALLY, MONTERO SAID IT

WAS QUITE FROBABLE THAT BELARMING CAS TILLE NAS, CUBAN

VICE MINISTER OF CULTURES WOULD VISIT JAMAICA DURING

THE SECOND HALF OF OCTOGER.

E, MONTERO CALLED ON ALL POE MEMBERS TO BE ALERT FOR

ANY COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES AND

TO MAINTAIN THE MIGREET ETANDARDE OR SEGUREEK. ME 541E

?. 96098261?000 0e60 8000 099 9H6 02655

---

## Page 5

13-Q0000

IN 416072

• IDFIP.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE L OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

"FURTHER "DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(ciessifica:ion.)

OF PERU. HE ALSD SAID THLT CUBAN EXILES SUCH

• LAN AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F, KENNEDY, MONTERO DID NOT ELABORATE.

6, FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT KINGSTON CAMBASSIDOR ONLYS..

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREION

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS. OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINGTION AND EXTRAGTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED EY ORIGINATOR, GLASSIFIED BY RECORDED FEPORTING

OFFICER.

XEDS-2.

* Major Pedro DIAZ Lanz, former head of

the Cuban Air Force (preceded Major Juan

ALMEIDA).

Defected.

00-B 3/169,982, 28

October 1960

---

