# 104-10072-10114

## Page 1

Hanna

104-10072-10114

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

965

Director of istelligence and Rosearch

Departmens of State

8 2 2w

Deputy Director for Pleas

sUeStCTRima LMITROSK-LeeHasvoy OSWALDO

Latour lot Gulde in Moscow.

24

1. An official Breiaho our co tao adolees, un they they now

have additional teler mation oa Rima 2 MITRO DK BOO SHIRAKINA.

sio soo soolgaed as OSWALDo Lourtet goldo La nocut In

October 1989.

2. SHIRA EVA como to tha ortention of tho Drielon auburtlien:

whon one beirtenled two British broteoro Ons tras Volted Che Soviet

Union in 1960. Sea and a male gutdo jetaad the ferty oisbobics tap

brothero vore traveiling as tho Russiaa Dordor.Mno ulcho brothero

has pureued the (stendebip moro lso cho othor and Claime that blo.

relations with her bavo becamo allectionio, but platonica, Le lacto

face he firet mes her, che hoe married and hos had a chid. Thay

have maimained a cicady correspondenco and ho stoite taels home

whoa ho goeo so the Sovlet Union.

So Aster the Diste of bor dauglitor la Detuber 196% SHIRAKORA

wrole and cald chas cho had left Imourtot and mao employed on

coacher if Lagiloh ino Moscow loacher'e tratsing college.

be two brothers loot vioited the 2WITRsoKe at their home

in a new bonding cose la Moscow is 1963. ora of tao thinge filzis

US COPL

20%S SC

EPRODUCTIONS

FTER

USE

MICROR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Uso Only s 4C K

Do Not Reproduce

9565

---

## Page 2

00000

IMITR JOK chowed them was an aloum of colored patcurdo of

places: in the United States which one clalmed had boco sent to her

by an American is returo for money she had lea, hiro when be was

visitlug the Soviet Uaion and ran phort uf funds.

Rima ZMITRO Knee SHIRAKOVA was born on 18 Joamry

1939 1n Moscow.

Her husband. Valerly ZMITROK. was bors on

29 ctober 2937. They were married in 1963 and thels daugblos

Aleksandra (Sacha) wae born on 29 October 19630l Al the timo ibar

the British brothere knew the 2 MiAoKe, be (Velerty) Haose

engineeriog student. At that time the 2 MITRO Ko roolded at

8 Vladiuirskaya, Apartment 31 House 23, Moscow 5P 123.

The name LMITRy Kisreported above do transmited to

is by the Britishy No belleve, however, that the ending sure 8o00

not represent a correct trangliter lion and may be an attempt lo

record the name do gives to toe Brech/phonetically. Me bellove the

proper tangliteration would be 2 MITRUK. Plosee auto that cho

Britich have cles spalled the name de SMITR 15K.

7. Coing on the cosumption that o deccitato Amertean woall

fara to the Erbacoy for accistanco, un would agproctate yous chocktag

with the umbagay in Moscow, whether they coald poseibly lently

tho American who san enort of turdo and borrowed moray from hima

ZMITROOK. Baocd on the information supplica by the Brition wo

would presume that the American borsowed the money trum bar bume-

"ine before ohe left Intourior in 1963.

No woull ald appreciate your

ooking the imbaosy if recy have any other taformation on che 2MITR MITAKe.

CSC8-316/00082-66

United Stages Secret Service

Federal Barcan of Invectigation

CIR&A:MPHartman:bw (31 August 1966)

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - Secret Service

1 - FBI:

1 - CH/ LSN

1- CI/R&A

J1 - RID/FI

1 - SB/CI

PRODUCTIONS

ESTROY AFTER USE

MICRO

---

