# 104-10112-10142

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10112-10142

..".

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Office MemorandumE nET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

22 March 1961

TO

: File

FROM : Alien Affairs Officer

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

-Sp. 526

SUBJBCT: CONTI Aguero, Luis Ernesto

1. Mr. Roy Wade, State Visa Office, celled me this morning

concerning subject. He stated We have had this fellow before on

another matter. He was a Castroite who defected and came to the

U. S. last April under parole. Our Political Desk got I&NS to

unshackle him. His family is currently in Mexico. The subject

left the U.S. and returned sometime in June 1960, at which time

I&NS cancelled his visa, but we did askin to do this. The

ubject is currently in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as an applican

'or a nonimmigrant visa!'

2. Mr. Wade requested that we inform him whether or not

we have an interest in subject.

3. Mr. Pennington contacted Mr. Wade and requested that

the subject be elven a NIV to the States.

4. Mr. Maroone) Os/VI-4 stated that ho had checked 12

ti and that they were interested in baving the subject return

to the States. Requested that Wi send us a memo since subject.

will probably kave to be paroled upon entry by I&NS.

-

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

SP-526

8 3 MAR 1961

Mc. Harris I. Huston, Acting Adminsetrator

Bureau of security and Consular Affairs

Department of Stato

liasbington 25, D. C.

Attentions Mr. James McDonnell

Dear Blrs

SUBJECI's Luli Ernesto CONTI Aguero

Thia u1ll confirn oral request made recently by an

employee of this Agency to Mr. Wade of your Department

for the Issuance of a nonimuigrant visa to the subject...

at suenos Alres, Argentina, so that he may obtain trano....

portation to the United States.

Arzangements will be made with Inmigration and Nat -

uralization service to parole subject upon arzival.

Your cooperation in this matter 1s appreciated.

sincerely,

pr-

shefffold Finardo

Director of security

ce: Immigration and Naturalization Servico

OS/AAS/JM:eB: 22 Mar 61.

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATZD FURTHER OR EXHIBITED

TO ANYONE WITHOUT FRIDE PERNISSION OF THE

CENTRAL INTELUBSXCE ANERGY.

archis c09ts

SECHET

---

