# 104-10331-10346

## Page 1

1704-10331-10346

• JUN-03-1997 09:46

D-448

(Rev, 2-16-95)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK TASK FORCE

202 324 3409 P.D1/15

FBI FACSIMILE

COVERSHEET

PRECEDENCE

• Ininediase

_Priority

I Routine

CLASSIFICATION

• Top Secret

• Secret

[Confidential

• Sensitive

• Unclassified

Historical Review (CLA)

Name of Offic

Facsimile Number:

(703) 613-3063

Atto:

Barry Harrefson

Name

Room

Telephone

From:

JFK Task

Force (FBI

Subject:

TFK

Time Transmitted:

9:35

Sender's laidals: aR

Number of Pages:

(including coversheer)

Date:

6/3/97

Special Handling Instructions:

Originator's Name:

Carol Keeley

umber: (202 324-3107

_ Telephone: (202) 324-9494

Approved:

Brief Description of Communication Faxed:

---

## Page 2

13-00000

:

JUN-03-1997 09:46

TUN-02-1997, 12:35 T0:61 - JUSTICB

JFK TASK FORCE.

202 324 3409

FROM: GAYMON, LI

P. 02/15

be de du

Total Pagoa:

LAM ID: MJG94

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET

Washingron. D.G. 20503-0001

Manday, Juna 2, 1997

LEGISLATIVE REFERRAL MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

OMB CONTACT:

SUBJECT:

Legislativa Liaison Officer - SEe Distriburion bolom

Jamos J. Jukes (for) Assistant Diractor for Legislative Roforence

M. Jill Glbbons

PHONE: (202)395-7593 FAX: (202)395-3109

IF Assassination Fecards Revior Board Teettony. on HR1553 Exporision

of the Authorization for the Assassination Records Review Board i

DEADLINE:

10:00 Tuasday, June 3. 1997

In ascordance with OM8 Circular A-19, OMB requests the viaws of your agency on the abova

subject before advising on ils relationchip lo tha program of the Prosident. Please advico Us i1 shis

seem will affect direts spanding of receipts for pulpaças of the "Pay-As-You-Go" provitions of Title

Xill of tre Omnibus Budger Reoonctiation At? of 1890.

COMMENTS:

DISTRIBUTION LIST

AGENCIES:

21-Centrel Intelligance Agency - Daniol Krule - (703) 482-8126

29-DEFENSE - Samuol T. Beick Jr. - (703) 697-1305

51•Ganaral Services Administration' - Willam R. Ratchford - (202) 501-0583

61-JUSTICE - Andrew Fois • (202) 51&2147

68-National Archives and Racorde Administration- John A, Constance - 1301) 713-7340

83-Netional Security Council • Glyn T. Davies - (202) 4516-9221

11A-STATE - Jula C. Norton- (202) 847-1083

EOP:

Rober W. Schrader

Kon Schwartz.

Louisa Kach

Kim Nowman

Maya Bernstein:

Julie L. Haas

Jon Murr

Stavon D. Allken

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• JUN-93-1997 09:46

JFK TASK FORCE

JUN-UZ-1YYY 14:39 JU:DI - SUOLIUS

202 324 3409

1110111050183899 de

P.03/15

DRAFT

Dals: June 2, 1997

Тіть: 11:45 8. ти.

DRAFT

Judge John R. Tunheim

Chairmar

Assassination Records Review Board.

Prepared Testimony In Suppost of

H.R. 1559.

To amend the Prealdent John F. Lennody Asslesination Fouards Cullecton Act of 1992

to extend the authorization of the Assassination Records Review Board

until September 30, 1998.

Betore tire

Nasiural Security, Inerational Affats and Criminal Justice Subcommittee,

Flouse Government Refotzn and Oversight Commuttee

-June 4-1097

1 Introduction

Mr. Chairmen and Merles uf the Subcommittee, I would like to thank you for the

opporturity to testify on behalf of the Assastation Records Review Board in support

of HR 15E3, which would extend the authorization of the Review Board for one year.

This additional thne will allow us to completi ous work, induding the review und...

pubie release of critical FBI and CIA recurde, submit a compreherive and complete

final report to the Congress and the Fresident, and make available to the American

public as much information as possible on the arearniration of Preeldent John fe

Kennedy.

I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Cultan Burton for introducing

HR 1553, and Congressmen Waxman and Stakes for cosponsoring this bil. These

Meribei: have exhibitad an admirablo blpartisari spirit and en understanding that we

as a government, and as a nation, must do what we cen to buing alesure to a sad chapter

of our fistary, and chur we mun seize this opportunity to do it now. In addition we

---

## Page 4

13-00000

JUN-03-1997 09:46

JFK TASK FORCE.

202 324 3409 P.04/15

UKAFT®

Date: June 2, 1997 Tire: 11:45 800.

DRAFT

would like to express our appreciation to Chairman Hastert for chaising this hearing

today and providing this forum to explain what the Roview Dour hay accomplished t

date and discuss what we would accomplish in Flocal Year 1998, if given the

apportunity,

Please allow me to introduce the other members of the Review Board with whom I have

had the professiural honor and pertonal pleasure to work: Ur. Henry F. Graff,

Professor Emeritus of History, Columbia Undversity: Di. Keruit L. Hall, Denn, College

of Humanities, and Professor of flistory and Law, The Ohio State University, Ds.

William L. Joyce, Assaciate Univorsity Librarian for fure Dosts aul Speral Collections,

Princeton Univeralty, and Dr. Anna K. Nelson Distnguished Adjunct Historian in

Residence, The American University. We here been honored to engage in this

important ettort to muke the hisinty ni the Kernedy assassination arailablo to the

American public and I am pleased to be here today to testify before this Subcommittee

and anamer uly us your questions.

First, I would ilke to describe bripfly the professional stali that we are fortunate to have

put together. The Exscutive Director is Di. David G. Merwell, à professiural historian

who gained vast experience dealing with large numbers of inportant historical

documents with the Office of special investigations at the Depertment of justice and

later as tre Director of the Berin Document Center. He leade a star aft: jui time

employees, who have varied backgrounds as historians, lawyers, analysts,

unique task with seriousness of purpose, creativity, profe alonalism, and competence

and have assisted us in sheddin. new lent on the assassination inrouen the release of

chourande of Federal Goremmient assorde, and the acquisition of resorde in private

hands and local governuents that were not previoualy available to the Americar,

pablic. I belleve that we arsembled exactly the type of professional and diversified staff

that Congress envistoned would be nesessary to acenmplinh this dif scult job.

As I krow you are aware, the Review Board was created by The Frestdent John E.

Kennesty A seassination Recorda follection Act of 1997 (FK Act) as en independent

federal agency to oversee the identilication und release of records related to tire

esyuns1101 of Preadent Kennody. I know that certin members of this auscountrutte

2

---

## Page 5

13-00000

JUN-23-1997

09:47

20-4e

JFK TASK FORCE.

202 324 3409 P. 05/15

DRAFT

Date: June 2, 1997

Time: 11:45 am

DRAFT

played a role in crafting and pasping the JFK Act-a unque piece of legislation

designed in remove doubt and speculation about she content of governmell nurde

related to the assassination of Fresident Kennedy. As a result of these lingering

suspicions, Congreas deternined that an independent board was the most effective and

efficient vehicle to make all ascresination recorda available to the public.

To The mad acted it mure in tre be heat to here to dent m

E. Kennedy Aesuslantion Recons Collection (F Collection) at the National Archives

and Resorde Administration. We would not have been evoscafel in our efforts wilhoul

he signlicant assistance of the Nationa Archives. At the end of 1996, the JFK

Cullertun sotaled approximately 3.7 million pages and was used extensively by

researchers from all over the United States.

By the end of Fiscal Year 1997, the Revlew Buard will have reviewed and processed

nearly all of the assassination records that have been identified by the approximately 30

different goveriunent offices believed to be in possession of relevant zecords, with the

Important excention of tu FBI and the ClA: 1 will elaborate on the status of rosarda

held by these two agencies later. The overwhelming majority of previously redacted

Lunation will have been made pubie by the review soare.

I. Release of Gorement Records Related to the Annaination

Before discusing what we will accomplish with an additional yeas, I would like to

highlight for the Members of the Subcommittee some of the toportant secords that the

Board has made public. They include:

110w0nds us cly documents on tee harray aswald and me assassina von or

President Kennedy that made up the CLA's Oswald Fle and detall the agancy's

surestigative actvitles following the assassination;

Thousands of ance secret records from the investigation by the House Select

Committee on Assassinations, chaired by Congressman Stokes, including the

controversial Staff Report an Arwald's trip to Mexico City;

3

---

## Page 6

13-00000

• JUN-03-1997 09:47

JFK TASK FORCE

JUN: 02-1997 12:35 T0:61 - JUSTICE

202 324 3409

FRUY: GAIMUS U.

......

P. 06/15

DRAFT

Date: June 2, 1997

"ins: 11:452.10.

DRAFT

Thousands of records from the FBI's core and related assassination Illes that

docurient the PBTs Interat in Oowald from 1959-69, after he had defected to the

Soviet Undor, three years before the assassination; and

The extensive fil files on its investigation of the anarasinaton.

The impurtant work in whlch the Review Board has been engaged can be beit and most

graphically demonstrated by showing you the "before" and "after" vernions of che of

the pre-assassination FBI documents to which I just referred and that the Board has

roleared to the public. Prlor to the Revier Board's revlem, thiS FUI dUeNDiEnt JEK

Collection Record Number: 12410023-10236, Attactment Number 1) was avallable to

the public as you see it on the left. As you can see, it is heavily redected. The only

Information that was not secret wan the date of the memorendum, "October 12, 1960,"

that it was to the "Director, iby from "Legat, fars" (the fil representative in Faris),

that the subject was "Tet Harvey Orwald, Internal Security," and that it had to do with

a "Paris letter 9/27/60." The rest of the text was blacked out. Obriously, this versin

of the document left room for a great deal of speculation among historians and

researchess ragarding what was underneath the black ink on this doc wuunt with the

provocative subject title

The Review Board aggressively pupquad the release of the radarted information in this

docent and several others that relate to the FBI's interest in Oswald befare the

assassination elles peutracted regoratons with meril an truda joL appeal to tre

White Flouse in an extort to keep the document secret and & direct appea, t the Swiss

government, we were able to release the moraton the unteracted menorandum

shows that the Swiss Federal Police had been enlisted by the FlI to Ly to lucer Oswald

and to determine whether or not he had enrolled at a echool in Switzerland. Now she

public is able to see the document in full and judge its impostance. In its redacted state,

the document could have seant anything that a terramher f inuigination and

speculation could invent. In its released form, it must be aralyzed for what it is.

V. Identificatin and Locatina@AdditionnlArasloadenReocds

One of the most importand, wast difficult, and most tino sonsuming responsbilities of

the Review Board is to identify and locate additional records that are relevent to fe

assassination This la a talk char so some degree must logically come inter in the

---

## Page 7

13-00000

• JUN-03-1997 09:51

JUN-02-1997 12:35 TO:61 - JUSTICE

JFK TASK FORCE

202 324 3409

P..15/15

DRAFT

DatE, JaDe 2, 1997

Times

11:45 am.

DRAFT

closure is not reached now. the identical issues will lükely have in headdressed again i

the future at even greater colt. The additicul year that we recommend will allow for

« confident conclunion of this important raok.

Mr. Chalmen, and Menbers of the Subcommittee on behalf of the members of thei

Assassination Records Review Board, I thank you for allowing us this opportirity lo

iscuss our work and our future. We urge you to favorably repart FIR 1553. I woul

be happy to answer any questons that the member

of the Subcounrittee may have &

me. The Board and staff stand ready to provide the Subcammittee with any additional

Information that may be required. Thank you

TOTAL P.15

---

## Page 8

13-00000

• JUN-D3-1997 89:48

JFK TASK FORCE

JUN-02-1997 12:35 T0:61 - JUSTIL

202. 324 3409

P.07/15

FRUM: UHINUN, L

DRAFT

Date: Junc 2, 1997

Time: 11:45 a.552.

DRAFT

process, after the Review bourd has gained a full understanding of thie records that have

already been identified. Although the Review Doard hay walle a significant number of.

requests for additional records and information, some of which I would like to outline.

much remains to be done before it can be confident that it has completed this

responsibility.

•I would Ilke tu highlight some of our efforos to identify and locate additional.

assassination records. Some examples:

Medical Records Inquiry' The Revicw Board has several ungoing elfurts to

identity and locate assassination records involving medical lastes. As with any

homicide, the medical records are among the most sportant pleces of evidence.

As part of its attempt to ensura that the medical recorde are as complete as

possible, the Review Board staif has deposed the principal pathologieta involved

in dreadent kennely a rutupay, an wel as other indiviauais who had

knowledge of the autopsy and related photographic records.

Review Board has continued its eliorts to locate additional Fil assassination

Iscords by making several requests for resords and information. The FBI has

assisted in this effort by giring the Review Flourd members access to requested

files. The FBI has, on the whole, been extremely cooperatlve and helpful to she

Board and has provliled flu requested information.

Identifintion.grd/Lacation of AdditionalTA.&ecords ArdLInformation. The

Review Board hes inifiated a number of roquesta to the CLA for addillonal

Information and records. The Reviety Board expects that these requests will be

prosiptly and fully satisfled during the upcoming year

the Review Board produced a serles of requesty for additional records and

inforsation that in turn, led to the identification of additional relevant

arcassination recorde. For example, in sompones to the Raview Board's first eight

requests for additional information. the Secret Service has submitted more than

1200 pages or material.

S

---

## Page 9

13-00000

•JUN-03-1997 09:48

TUN- 02-1987 12:35 TO:61 - JUSTICB

JFK TASK. FORCE.

FROM: GAYMON, D.

202 324 3409 P. 08/15

do too -

DRAFT

Dals: Jung 2, 1997

Time: 11:45 am

DRART

Talentification and Location of Additional vitary Records end information. The

spartinent of Deichse (Including its tary comportents und the militar

servises) (collectively "DOD"), identlfiled few usaselnation records on its owni

initiative. DOD has nevertheless been cooperative with the efforts of the Review

Board to Incate annartinilan secorde. When such records have boon located,

DOD has been willing to helease the secands with few redactions.

Additional work would be required in our last year to ensüre that all

assassination records in the military archives rave been made a part of the JFK

Collection Fortunately, He diligent efforts of lve ARRD utalt have set the sage

for this task to be accomplished.

V. Belande of Prisate And Incleads

In addition to the release uf resurds in the Federal Government's Fast files, and

consistent with the Board's mandate to make the historical record of the assurelmation as

complete as possible, we heve been uggressive tident ying and asquiding nightican

aBERceination-related secordo in the posscasion of private citizens and local

governments, including:

The original personal papert of Warren Camelesten Chief Coursel J. Lee Rankin

that give further thaight into the operations of the Conmistion;

• Coples of the official seconds of New Orlesus District Attorney Ilm Garrison's

investigation of the assassination;

Long lost flurs taken in Dalls on November 22, 1963, dur the public had never

seen and that shed new light on the events of that day,

• Copies af xeconds fram the Metropolitan Crime Commiaion of New Orlems,

Including records on Dislikel Attury Gartlson's Investigatton and prosecution

of Clay Sharr and records regarding New Orleans organized crime figuresy and

Private collections of recorde from individarls including Warren Coinialsidlo

Litorney Wealey Liebler, nuthor Devid Lifton, FBI-Special Agent Hosty, Attornes

Frank Ragairo, as well as others,

6

---

## Page 10

13-00000

•JUN-03-1997 09:49

JFK TASK FORCE.

JUN-02-1997 12:35 T0:61 - JUSTILE

[nlS-46.16996608

202 324 3409 P. 09/15

DRAFT

DRis: June 2, 1997

Time: 11:45 am

DRAFT

The oxiginal papers of New Orleans attorrusy Edward Weyearn frow his work

as a member of the legal team that successfully defended Clay Shaw in 1969

against a charge of conspiracy to blll President Kennedy.

I am also pleased to amounce today that the Review Board hee just acquired the

velgisia) personal papers of Clay Shaw, the late New Orleans businessman who is the

oruly person ever trled in connection with the assassination of President Kenaty. Shar

was acquitted by a jury in 1969 after being charged as part of District Attorney.

Canicon's investigation. The Shaw papers will surely add swirer dimension to this

particular chapter of the assassina dori story.

All of these recordr will enrich the historiel record of the ascapelnation for future

generations of Americans. Once these recozds are procceped and described by the

Natüral Archives, they will be avallable for research

VI. The Nasd For Additional Time

Despite our bist efforts and significant aocomplistments, some of which I have

outlined, the Kevlew Board will not be able to complete its work within the original

three yeas timetable sel by Cangresa ine tha following seasons:

First, the nuthars of flu uriginal leyislation belleved that our task would take

three years. That estimate was based on the best avalable infonnation at the

time, bure the legislation estabilshed an unprecedented process. There wasna

way of knowing the problems of scale and complosity that the Board would.

encounter, nor was there any way to factor in the comprehensive approach we

have taken to falfilling our sendate.

Second, the Board was not appointed until IB months after the legialation was

to sustair the redaction of assassination related Infortnation Once ths Board

was in place, agencies needed to revise a conslderable amount of work In fact,

---

## Page 11

13-00000

• JUN-03-1997 89:49

JFK TASK FORCE.

TN-02-1997 12: 30 IU:D1 - NUDLIUS

202 324 3409

P. 10/15

R

DRAFT

Datc: June 2, 1997

Time: 11:45 em

DRAPI

mary agencies have yet to complete their review and the board is still seeking

their complianes.

Third our enabling legislation imposed deveral restrictions on the manner in

which the board could mpeiate. Tinlike opher temporary agencies, the Board,

could not hire or detall expérienced federal employees, but rather had to bire

new empluytes who had boundergo back grund investigations and be cleared At

the Top Secret level. Locating and renovating space that was suitable for the

storage of classied materials was required. As a result, the Board could not'

bogin an effective revich of rocordo untilche third quarter of our flist year.

We are pleased and proud that the Review Board and staff have been able to overcome

these Obstacles, and that we have developed an elicient and arrestive procesa for the

review of records. We do not went to cease now before the job te done and with a

toasonable condusun witnuw same we wart to tian the job we began

VIl. The Tob Ahead

The additional year of operations will petalt the Review Board to finish tes tack by.

cosapleting several major areas of bur work. Please be aured that these are

identifiable projects that are critical to ensuring that the. JFK Collestion is as completo as

posable, tuat relevant Federal agencies have been held accountable, and that all that we

have done is documented in our hial repurt. The major aral of focue in our final year

would be the following.

CIA Sequestered Collection! The Review Bourd has completed its revier of the

Oswald "201 file," the file created and maintained by the CIA on Orwald and the

assassination. The Reviet Board is now woed with the task of reviewing the

agency's "Sequestured Collection" the lesge collection nf filen that was

assembled by the CIA in response to requeste made by the House Select

Committee on Aurassinations, chainel by Curigressman Stokes, in the lare 1970's.

These retards find their relevance to the essassination deftned in part by the

buose of the liscA investigation the sequestered COllecton consist a 6

bner nf TA- and FISCA-originated recosds as well as 12 roele of Interofilm.

Unfortunately, these recordd are in a confused order, poorly described, and are

ruplete wich duplicares. Soute of these records are clearly of great algriticarce,

8

---

## Page 12

13-00000

JUN-03-1997 09:51

TUN-02-1992 12:35 T0:61 - JUSTICE

JFK TASK FORCE

202 324 3409 P. 13/15

FROM: GAYMON, 1L

DRAIT

Dais: June 2, 1997

Tans 11:45 2m2

DRAFT

In considering our review of the CIA and FEl "Sequestered Collections," the Board

recognized that it nocded to detrelop & different apprutch, une that would take into

account the varied degree of relevance of individual records to the assassination Only

in this way could the Board engure that it would approprately expend its resources in

Its last gear: At a firet step. the Board carefully analyzed each collection in order to

determine what priority ahould be assigned to the category of resorde. In additlan the

Board develuped a det of guldelines for the review of these records which recognized

that some calegories of recorde did not require the intensive word by-word review that

had beer the rule for the core cillections that have been the subject of the Board's

atrention to date. The derclopment of tirese guide ines begas with the August 5, 1995

Board public hering and culminated in their adoption at the October 16, 1996 Board

meeting. The AKKB staff will distinguish between records whose relevance to the

assassination is clear and there rint helleved to be salovans (as "NBR"). Applying these

new stardards will permit the ARRB staff to identify and revlew the most significant

remaining socords in urder of prostry.

These detailed guldelines «all reduce the lose of valuable Review Board and ARRB staff

tize expanded to revlew, an a word by word baris, those documents lut have a

remote relatonship, at best, l the termedy assassination those documents that are

idertified as relevant to the assassinstion wil continue to be reviewed word-by-word

These standarde of relevance are denigned in ensure that the greatest number of true

assasaination records is properly identified, reviewed, and made public in the JFK

Callection el le Natiunal Arcilves.

The fruits of our labor frow the hrat three years world be realized in our last year, one

in whist we would bo roviowth; some of the most difficult records, and putertially

most important recorde, but with the benefit af our invaluable experlence. I an happy

to report that we have received@oh@assuranses frou the EBl and CIA that they will

work with us in a faul year to sake sure that the neracinty resounces ars applled co

thatthe task can be completed

D delusion

In making nur recommendation, (us u one-year extension, wc, the members of the

Review Board, are fully cognizant of the difficultien inherent in extending a temporary

ennuissivil. We ate aware of die concem tha? benporary bodies say have a self-

11

---

## Page 13

13-00000

'JUN-03-1997 09:51

JUN- 02-199,7 12:35 TO:61 - JUSTICE

JFK TASK FORCE.

202 324 3409

FROM: GAYMON, D.

P.14/15

k. 19/19

DRAPT

Date: Jame 2, 14y?

time: 11.45 a.m

DRAFT

preserving and self-perpetunting tustinct, and want to assure you in the clearest and

nost unambigunur manner that ons recommendation la motivated strictly by our deatre

› complete the job, My colleagues and I were appointed as private citizens und hav

any comprting claims on our time and energy. It in our collective conviction that th

additional time is neceasury and our sincerest commitment that us will compicte our

task by the end of Fiscal Year 1998, if given the mears.

I would like to note that, as you may be aware, the Administration is supportive of the

one year extension for the Review Board and has subzutted an FY 1998 budget

amendment to allow un ta coraplete our work, close out out aperatior, and submit our

final report.

Siruce the Review Board began this effort three years agn, ore have witrassed the

widespread and passionate interest that the American.public.has in.theassasstration.of

Prosident Kennedy. We have streived thousenin uf letters, telephone calls, faxes and

e mall messages frotti individoals who care detply about our history: Tiey cöme from -

#i wak9.a-fe.tron.al.over theounty.andare.caiages. ineitinterests.or

varying degrees and they da mht all agree an what happened in Dallas on Noverter 22

1969. However, they do agree that the public has the right to see the files on the

I believe that what the Review Board is all about can be sunmed up in a letter we

recelved from a man from Calliornia just last wreck.. The authur is not a profeasional

historian, not a student working an a paper for a history class, but simply a private

dizen interested in leaming about this tragic historical event. He wrote the followg.

In my humble opinion, it uppears that the ARRB Is having, a healing effect

ipon the Amerior pubic, who may be coming to realize trat there may be

dosure in sight (in our lifetimes) with regard to the JFK assassination."

These wards capture why the Revicw Board was created by the Cungress and why we

hope that the Review Board will have the additional year to complete out task

The Assisination Records Reyjew Board war ranoeived as a sleant of elminating

uncertainly and sperulation about the contents of government files relating so the

assassination of President Kennedy. We, thie members of the Board, believe that s

12

---

## Page 14

13-00000

3 June 97

C/HRG

The following suggested response to OMB's request for

comments on a one year extension of the JFK Board was sent

via E-mail to(Cindy Ellies), OCA (I CC"you and Brian) :

"The Agency is committed to continuing to cooperate

with the Assassination Records Review Board as long as it

exists.

We agree that there is considerable work to done

beyond the current expiration date of 30 September 1997."

Attached are the OMB request and Tilley's and Tunheim's

prepared testimonies:

Tilley's looks fine.

Carol. Keeley

clip) re "assurances

and i had a problem with Tunheim's statement de boch talkede

Irom the FBI and CIA"

with Marwell and he has agreed to drop the word "explicit"

and to change "the" to

"our" task. I told him it was

important that the impression not

be left that the entire

project would be completed by the end of FY98.

I remained

him that we had had several discussions of postponing

processing documents (especially duplicates and material of

marginal interest), for NARA so that we can focus on the

more important documents and substantive issues.

have discussed, the extension will have a

budgetary impact.

We will need to fund the JFK project for

FY 98 and FY 99.

There will be substantial work to be done

in preparing documents for National Archives after the

Board's mandate has expired.

The completion of the entire

project in FY 98 would require significant increase in

resources including indexing and ADP support.

Barry

Bager

---

## Page 15

13-00000

818 (ReV: 2-16-95)

FBI FACSIMILE

COVERSHEET

PRECEDENCE

• Inunediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION

[Top Secret

_Secret

• Confidential

• Sensitive

Unclassified

Historica

1 Review (CIA)

Name of Office

Facsimile Number:

(703) 613-3063

Alto:

Barry Harre/son

Name

Room

Telephone

From:

JFK Tast Force (FBI)

Name of Office

Subject:

JFK

1.35

Time Transmitted:

Sender's Initials:

Number of Pages:

(including coversheer)

6/3/97

Special Handling Instructions:

Originator's Name:

Carol Keeley

Originator's Facsimile Number: 202324-3407

Approved:

Brief Description of Communication Faxed:

_ Telepose: (202) 324-9494

---

## Page 16

13-00000

3 June 97

C/HRG

The following suggested response to OMB's request for

comments

on a one year extension of the JFK Board was sent

via E-mail to Cindy Ellies, OCA (I CC-you and Brian) :

"The Agency is committed to continuing to cooperate.

with the Assassination Records Review Board as long as it

exists.

We agree that there is considerable work to done

beyond the current expiration date of 30 September 1997."

Attached are the OMB request and Tilley's and Tunheim's

prepared testimonies.

Tilley's looks fine.

Carol Keeley

and I had a problem with Tunheim's statement on page 11 (see

clip) re "assurances from the FBI and CIA"

we both talked

with Marwell and he has

agreed to drop the ward "explicit"

and to change "the" to "our" task. I told him it was

important that the impression not be left that the entire

project would be completed by the end of FY98. I remained

him that we had had several discussions of postponing

processing documents (especially duplicates and material of

marginal interest), for NARA so that we can focus on the

more important documents and substantive issues.

As we have discussed, the extension will have

budgetary impact.

We will need to fund the JFK project for

FY 98 and FY 99.

There will be substantial work to be done

in preparing documents for National Archives after the

Board's mandate has expired.

The completion of the entire

project in FY 98 would require significant increase in

resources including indexing and ADP support.

Bar:

aey-

---

