/1o4-10186-10062) _, 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tous materia! contains taformetion afecung the National Defense of the Calied States within the meant of the Ratonage Lars, Title
AL UEC fecm TH'end TH, the tranemiaion of Fevelation Of which in any manner to An UoRUIborlend perwa le pealbtted OF law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSE Z

country Cuba ‘ : REPORT NO, © CHI-316./00727-65

SUBJECT Rufael GUZMAN (alias "“Rolando") DATE DISTR, 16 Februiry 1965

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64
(page 7)
: 8 duly 1964 RETURN TO CIA |

NEO. 1964
4 Washington, D. Cc. : fackground Use Only,

PLACE
pate acg.December 1964 FIELD REPORT NO. Do! Not. Reproduce, / :

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED _IWIOBMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ABE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

: source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
a Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes suppiemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

1. Rafael GUZMAN, alias "Rolando," is an officer in Section ‘
B, Central America, of the Departamento Ilegal (Illegal i
Department) fot the Direceion General de Inteligencia (General
Directorate’ of Intelligence - DGI).

2. GUZMAN, a Caucasian, was born about 1943, is five feet
seven inches tall, weighs 135 pouads, and wears glasses. He
resides at Calle 45, No, 3424, entre 34 y 36, slarianao, telephone
number 29 3276.1

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal so identifiable information

i on GUZMAN.
5 : 5
4 4
3 3
2 SECRET a 2
1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM 1
wae Tom Taw Trae Tae my T Toe

_ [iets iatd ieribction ines’ by “#2

feowave —14 it a
rorecswit/SA 8 (1), PE 1 (1), CE 4, RID 1

19-5-1
OnSALETE PREVIOTS EDTANS

