“prtoa
_ Fa Vas to be: 3,000, 2,009 oF Piatt npn rr

7 : Parvicizacts im the Inst IAG

Beonghitet eatversitice in Latin Asertes
MMaistars of Btucation act Rrtermalartuire
Rationaleod local stufant uateas in Latin Anerica.
Retiocal youth committees

Yoxth esctiass of palitical parties
Auterestional youtli orgunisattons

Biudeat newspapers ;

Galected foreign (non-latin Apariesd) alirecoses

Pelee ceed De Viet af the ‘sie of Be eee le eee
eomrnels. Cul al tnthedl lant mamascear ata

HmowNs as

|, Bosase Aires

‘vee quoted OEMEU-¢12 aviee ‘the fountetion,' the nates poe

{
{
1
I
|
if
!
j
'
i
i
1
i
}

RETURNTO CIA ~
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


fey eee

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

: forvara a copy of tie

bi ace .ate ying
te Oras By
* toons Erralivicoarie, Ra tasdian

2. Ve sasme

are mvailatle at Bontzmrtere.

be arranred if the vere to requent.se:ueny, a2 3,000 copiee:
J. Alteruntively, oad quarters ocalA nave thE -tootet: reproduced by -

Phote offset. Tite process would not duplicate. tha ‘backlet so well that

tha copy vould bo indistinguishadta drum the eriginel—salor, binding

and paper vould be dirferen’--but 1% sd git esrve the Biation’s

wt yooely end quickly. ‘Me vill evatt the: resulta of ths 24

taqaecies before placing sa enler Wiless atviesd to the cox mie

a, If JWAVE hea or could obteta firthe# tatormition on the boaklet,
Reakpactare would bo interested ic leaming vhat dietrilution tt hes ro
dsivet tn Letia Amsrise, os voll a5 how many copies tn viet languages are
wtiLl avatlenle. ince MAUF des quatribated to the publication and
railing cvste, Urougi not. the total enount required,’ 1% would aleo be
helbMil’ sorkAgw Low mck; “tf -ency"euyport TSAI aay he-w gives thiough
tetr osntects and, secandly, hov mich you aight.be-ehlé to invest tn
eorurint witer distribution af the boaklet,” if more aistributers Like
the! jvere to prusent thocselves.

24

pee

DRPIEEY 6. STAR

i
j

Hie isin Sruivelumner.¥1_vece peceaneaoinariitons [sneezenienselantscateteazens; °°V"" >” 12zzRth
