# 104-10227-10170

## Page 1

to1-00000

104-10227-10170

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10

IROM

DISPATCH

chlof, iD

C1.A501815.A12,d0

S-ki-ü-i-EmT

w, 110p0

w/r..1.10.1

Chief of Station, INvE

PASSAVCY/Mr. Hurwitch/ArbUU-1 Meetings and their repercussions

ACTION REQUIRIO ALLUENCIS

P-#-I-0-11- I-T-Y

1. Under separate cover we are forwarding the following papers

dealing with ANDUD and meetings of aneUD-l, Theodore F. PASSAVOY

and Mr. Hurwitchs

A. Memo for the record (unnunbered), 2 November 1961

B. Meno for. the record No. 5, 2 lovember 19f.1

C. Memo for the record lio. E, 3 lovember 19F1

D. Report fron ANCLATTEN-1

k.. Statenent by Coordinator General of 30 lovember Movement.

2. WAVE reaction to questions raised in memos 13 as followss

Thera 13 no reason for us to subsidizy tro "Jiario Las

Americas" in order to furnish the meld gratis publicity in the

local colony.

B. Dally personal expenses on

tours should be kept down

to approximately 815 a day as there has been much criticism of

lavish living on these tours in Latin herica.

We shall suggest to AraUd-l that a pilot radio program

once or twice a week be started over dil in New Orloans to determine

Its effect in Cuba and Latin America.

D.

We shall keep ANÜUD-1 Informed of all future tours

undertaken

by affiliates, but no detailed expose of past operations

will be glven.

dentitie

pro.

I CARES HUNGRENCE TO

DAIE TIHIL

7 Nov, '4,1

DISPARCH SINGTA NOC PUINAICA

UFGA- 25,56

CATE CHAICHED

NOV n 7 1961

CS

CUPY

S-E-C-H-E-T

19-124-2÷/2-

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

Pago

Ho aproe with AlBUD-l's bellef that the "bulletin"

should not be published. in the wAVl area and further believe

that it 1s a publicity arm of the group and as such should come

out of their budget if printed in other countrios.

consider this in the category öf a separate propaganda project

deserving separate financing.

F. We, are supporting the JUDE delegation to Caracas.

End of dispatch

ATTACHMENTS

As stated

(USC)

DISTRIBUTION

3 = rules, WHID

- F1les

w/att. (USC)

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

