‘"104-10298-10214) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ea
Bit Sarees

1954
PROGRAL

¥S dune 1968

MEMORANDUA PIR: Deputy Director of Contras Intelligence
ATTSETION + Ur. A. Austin Bricker, Jr.
i SUBJECT t Lettor from Assistant Attorney Genorai

Attached tu a suggested repiy Yor a letter from the |
Roporabie J. falter Yeagioy, Aesistsat Attorney Gonorai,

dated 7 Hay 1062,

Attachnsate:

1, Suggested Ropiy
2. Basic Letter (Reg. No. 84922)

DOP/TFY/CI/RMTansing:dad (26 June 1982

{ Disdribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee
Lo AAB 1

= Executive Rogistry

- TFY/Keoc,

‘TRW/CI i

TF#/Pa-Frop. i

Chrono

pan



T LEASE tag
aig REVIEW PROGRAM

Honorable J. Walter Yeagloy
Avoletant Attorney Gonoral..
Deyartiesat of Justice :
Washsazton 25, LD. C. Hea
i
Dear Ms, Yeagley: \
Raference is made to your letter, dated 7 May 1962, pertain

fing to po
Munes in hie reported activity to reesall one Williaa A, Peanington

of Now Grleans, Loulstana, for military service a,otnet the yrosent
gime in Cubs.

Dig. Luis RADE! Mines to n Suthorised representative of
the Cutan Kevolutionary Council ia New: Orleans, Loulstens. - AL
the proosat imo Mr, RABEL Nunes is engayed ta tekiag-a conous
of Cuban exiles in the New Orlends area who are available to join
the U. 5. Avcoy, This consus activity is being conducted at tha
directions of the Cuban Kevolutionary Council. ti this conasetica,
U. 5. Goverament reprenontatives have had discussions with
Dz, Jose MIKG Cardona, head of the Cuban Kevolutionary Council,
whereia Approval was given for Dr, LIRO to apcourase Cubsn exiled

to joln the U. S, Army.

This Agency hao ao record of une William A, Ponnington of
How Crioans, Louistana. Algo this Agency bos no knowledge or
intevest in Bir. RABEL Nunes’ activity of recruiting one
William A, Pennington for military service against the present
vegime in Caba,

ible violation of the asutrality statutes by ar. Lule KABEL

i
i


|

The activities, and indocd the fluctuating composition of *
tho Cuban Revolutionary Council, are, as you are anare, conplex
reac on which it io difficult to generalize. If you desire, ™» can
arringa a detailed discussion on this subject botween mutual rep-

Faithfully yours,

HS. Carton

(Stened) Me

Marshall 8, Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director

