# 104-10132-10060

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10132-10060

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

DATE

1 quart.

Whil

FROM:

, WALTER PFORZHEIMER

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

Г0EM 59-241

PLACES FOl

ICH MAY BE US

EXTENSION

4(0)

---

## Page 2

4-00000

GONFIDENTIAL

10 June 1965

MEMORANDUM TOR : The DiJOCtOr ol Contral Intelligenco

SUBJECT

Book Retiow; Portralt of the Harassin by

Congressmas Gerald R. Ford with Jobs R.

stller.

lo Tala saamorandan la for informalloa oaly to bring to your

artantion a losthcomiag book concarning 100 Harvey Oswald by-

Congrosaman Gerald R. Ford with Jaka R. Stlles, antitied Portrait ol

the Assassia (New York: Simon and Schuater, 1965).

2. Mo. Stlles is a long time polltical associate ol Congresarass

Ford and mas his spacial ansistant throughon! the Congressman's tenUre

no a member ol the Masses Commiasion establiahed to report on lba

assassination ol Prosident Kennedy. This book la writtan not so much

to roll tha ntoTy of lha annaasinatios al the Prosidenl as lo preseas a

study ol Osmald as a pernas and to describe his trips and activities

lasolas as thay are knows. The book la comprised la vosy latge Ieasure

al extended extracts from the publiabad racorde al the Caresaleston, The

restimany and vious ol Oswald's molher, milo and brother, us mall as

obero who knew his, are sot forth is some detall. Some arapbania la

lald os Oswald's stormy relations with bla mile and his forcelal resctions

to ditlicals parioda in that relatioasbip.

3. Congresamas Ford tells at some of the problema the Cam-

miasion facad ln doveloping the evidence in the care, but the book la sot

critical al tha Comminalon os of lis caselusions. Portrall of the Assassin

containe vory lou references to CIA (pagao 1S, 17-19, 21, 23-24, 6l, 152-3,

291, 392, 460), and thoro are unobjectorable. Only ailsht mostlon lo mado

of the charge pul forth by Oswald's mother and albers that Oamald way

have been a ClA agall, in his conclusions. Ford stresses the importaace

of "meaningíal huran relationshipo", and that those are what Oswald lacked.

Document Number

1289-1019

for FOlA Reviewion FEB 1917

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

The firet coapter of Fortrall of the herasnig, eatitled

The Coramlanion Gots Ite Ilrat shock, deals with the chargo, surlously

advancad by Texas law enforcement ollicials, that Oswald was la lact

as FBI agoRI and sets Lorth some al the Cormiasion's dellberations so

to hom boat lo prove the trula or falsity ol this claim ubich was also

balag rained by cartasa other individuals and pablle madle. No Congress.

man Ford and the Commalasion Report and fastimary polst out, the chasgo

Tao noves sustalnad. Howevas, somo al the alting in Chapter 1 1s pos-

sibly loone anough to allon los quotation sul ol contast los thons ubo seet

to damage the Image of the F'BS. In FebIUASy, uhes ClA sam the galley

proofa ol this book, this laformatios was called lo the attention of the

¡'BI on a confidastial basie. Horroves, no sellos vas probably tales by

thora, becanse thera appasta lo ba so chango in the jubllabad version

from the taxt of the gallay prcals.

#'altar Plorahalazar

Curator

Historical Intolligenco Collectios

Distribution:

Osig&1 a/book - Dal

1 w/book

-DDEL

I /book

- Ex. Dir

/boak - DDP (AMa: Mr. lEvan Parkers)

-O/DCIPA

to too

CONFIDENTIAL

---

