# 104-10169-10083

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10169-10083

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

rains

(84)

INDEX O YES D NO.

- CLASSITY TO FLE NO _

XIE TO THE NO_

-

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FOM:

UNWAVE

ACTION

HH 8

SECRET

2

6

MLE NO LI RET TO BRANCH U

DESTION D

stO

Mor

IX RID COPY (ADVANCE COPY TO SDO, IW AND CS/DO AT 12815 OJ)

NO.

SS/D0, 500 4 CA/O 4, CLe CI/PS, FU/SPG-WPS 3s IW, W:/C 8,

A/D . AINT

D/OCL 2

SECRET 2415452

2/2,21-22,21-15

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR/GUAT MANA SUOS IS

INTEL DYVOUR IMPLAM

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. NO PROJECT. AMRAZZ/I VIA AMBLINK/I•

... ..

GOT INFO FROM ALEJOS. NO INDEX. FILED 2415452

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

barteres

DEC 24 16382 65 IN 21194

pm

SOURCE

SUEUS STATEMENT BY ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, QUATEMALAN EMIGRE IN MIAMI.

FLORIDA, THAT COUP IS IMMINENT IN GUATEMALA

DOI: 2$ DECEMBER 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (23 DECEMBER 1965)

UFG-7828

IW COMMENT.

SOURCE: A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

03,03,03

CONSULTED MR. CARRANZA, MR. TERRELL AND MR. BRAY OF WH/2.

NO DISBEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDINO

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

RELLASINO I WO

TOES

] ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

.". rif.

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

SECREI

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Orty

Do Not Her

Copy Na

3/g0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1045 3001

CONFIDENTIAL

nibin fülkos lon

NAG IiNs

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY

DATE OF

NO.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable®

TOCS

DESTR

- SUWECT

MACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE.

AND

APPRAISAL

RE,

RELO REPORT NO

N:21194

1. ON 2$ DECEMBER 1965 IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU,

PROMINENT GUATEMALAN EMIGRE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN GUATEMALAN

REVOLUTIONARY PLOTTING, SAID THAT HE HAD EXPECTED A MILITARY COUP IN:

GUATEMALA BEFORE 15 DECEMBER, BUT THAT HE: HAD RECEIVED WORD FROM

:QUATEMALA THAT BECAUSE OF THE PERSONAL AMBITIONS OF SOME OFFICERS

ITHE COUP HAD NOT BEEN CARRIED OUT.

12: :THE PLAN, HOWEVER, IS NOW PROGRESSING AGAIN, ALEJOS

CONTINUED, AND THE COUP WILL OCCUR AT ANY MOMENT. THE BEGINNING OF

THE CHANGÉ IN GOVERNMENT, HE ADDED, WILL BE THE REPLACEMENT OF THE

uasuchortcod pursun

CONFIDENTIAL

OTATUIUNA DLA ARMYIACSI MAVY. AIR LS ESGOL NÍA NIC AID UISIA OCI ONA OCR ORR

---

