# 104-10175-10000

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10175-10000

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN E. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only

•De Not Moproduce

DISPATCH

FAGCESSING

SECIBI

Chiel of Statioa, Mexico CIty

MINES TIP IRESINA

1514. 029.1050

•".*

•.i.

8196.

wind

Chief, VB DIvLa10a

122 TA31

ACTRES GIANTO PEFPENCES

REd:

A.

18XI-9i,3, 18

November 1951

B.

DIR-27331,

30

Hereber

1961

C.

3811-9596, 8 December

1961

As the Station was

Inforeed in reference B, MAZIP viskes to terulaste it8

relationship uith ANUPAS/l effective l January 1962 because of agent's loss of

access to the targei.

recording to referesce C, the Station wishes to contime

UsINg AHUPAS/1 to satisfy general needs of the Station.

It is therefore requested

that effective 1 Jamary 1962, all funds paid A'JPAS/l be charged to the Hexico

City 00s and not to jill.

If, prior to 1 Jamary 1962 the Station deeldes to

tercinate AJIPAS/1, a bosus of 1100 plus travel expenses to PBFRIlI are authorized

IrON JAZIP fuado.

2. TO COVEr AMUEAS/l'& work for the Station, It will be necessary to ainerd

to revles. the operatica a stated in paragraph 3 of refereace C.

also consider preparing a fornal coutract. Subjeet is nou under oral contract oniy.

3. In secordance with the wishes of the Station as expressed la M8XI-9443,

and agreed to in a subsequent cable, Headquarters is no longer in contact with

Tuere are still sone soninistrative details pending, however, and

Headquarters would appreciate the Station. having AMJPASA complete the following

foras and retura trea to Headquarters:

Preado/True sane acrnowledgeneat forms #SD-359-224-(copy attached)

= Binaviúing axemption Certificate & vuestiozzaim, Fore 313: (coples

(Subject verbally agreed to: lio ereeptions; 18%. with-

Holding - 17 July 1961> 24

C. "Corert Agreesent Supplement & iucose and federal far Data - Foria

313a (This aumbered fora camot be Beat tie, fleld, but the field bag;

{to una join witu tue cortesposdias tulorsation locludingisceiel

Information, crepensation and withholdlay data and dependency

8050

--WHYREGISITY

00H. 71/4

WH/3MExtço/phrono

DATE TIPED

DATE DISSPATCHES

(CÃOSS REFERUNE TO -

11 Deceaber E1!

16.002 1038

DISPATCH SINBUL AND MUMBER

HAN • 10309

SICBBT

• 201 - 278841

OFFICE

OFFCIR

NH/3Nexico C. Bustos-Videla

CRISIS÷ ING

57151

PVo

CHORDINATING

WH5 Mextec

2555

OFFICE SINERA

SAIE

Jean T: Pierson (in draft)

H/rV

RItt

53

RELEASING

ÚFFICE 5PMABIA

CAAHD

MATE

2 DE0.061

jets

21P9-1285 RENTS $I0E, MAHON LAT EX USTI

10309}

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSFICATEM

SECRET

LISFATCH SYSIED AML MUNEBER Y

14241 - 10309

24

24 (Le psesdazy, ascenanted by a certifted copy of horregatar Pora

253l: (Sabject was pald

e gross of $1200 for 1960.;.

wald) a Sebainers should also be sebalties.

of l' Decraber 1561-tares have been withhald and all payaouts asl

taxes vitabell tre da record at Mexico City). A schodule&.ahoald

alco be subaitted:

RAID DE DISPATCH

Distribution:

3 - Mexico Cly

5/18

CLASSEFICATIONS

SECRET

PROE NO

ETHMAVAI

---

