# 124-10284-10400

## Page 1

124-10284-10400

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/11/201

AGENCY :

' RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10284-10400

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1566-10TH NR 1, 11TH NR 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/24/1959

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

PDL, EXILE, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, REQ, EXTRADITION

PROCEEDINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC TTY

19.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32303888

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• FEDERAL BUREAU. OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 2 4 1959

E

TELETYPE

3-17-98

M'ASSIFIED BY 5618 SLO/USER

DEGLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

8-03

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA FOR BE

IN THIS DOCUMENT ExCEpt toR

PM EST RBJ

ткн 2-6-98.

Mr.

Tol

Mis

Mr.

Mr.

McQuire.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Tamm

Mr.

Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman_

Miss Gandy

10-24-59

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM SAC, MIAMI

2P.

Pedes Dia g

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, IS DASW CUBA."

MIAMI ATTORNEY

Do: Be CLINE, FORMER AUSA, MIAMI, CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED THAT

APPROXIMATELY THREE FIFTEEN P. Me TODAY, JOSE RAMOS, CUBAN

VICE CONSUL ACTING IN CHARGE CUBAN CONSULATE, MIAMI,

TELEPHONED HIM LONG DISTANCE FROM HAVANA, STATING THAT CUBAN

GOVERNMENT WANTS TO FILE EXTRADITION PROCEEDINGS IMMEDIATELY

AGAINST A CUBAN EXILE IN MIAMI, RAMOS DECLINED TO FURNISH

7б ta de

a 10/24/59

ORIGINAL

COPY FILED M./09-54/ 00 8

AND CLINE HAS MADE ARRANGEMENTS TO CONTACT HIM NINE P. M®

• TONIGHT, AT WHICH TIME RAMOS WILL PROVIDE IDENTIFYING DATA

AND OTHER INFORMATION PERTINENT TO FILING OF EXTRADITION

PROCEEDINGS AND HE DESIRES CLINE TO: FILE: TONIGHT BEFORE U

DISTRICT JUDGE.

CLINE EXPECTS THAT: SUBJECT OF EXTRADITIOI

PROCEEDINGS WILL BE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ DUE TO GREAT

12707

15 706304

IMPORTANCE WHICH CUBAN COVERNMENT IS ATTAGHING TO THIS MANWISE

KITTENE SHOWN

END PAGE ONE

NI CONTAINED NOT RECORDED

55 NOV 4

1959

ALL INFORMATIO

HEREIN

141 NOV 2 1959

UNC

SIFIED

SECRET

DATES

BY

NH 50953 DocId: 32303888 Page 2

---

