124-90041-10044] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90041-10044
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-89923-45
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI :
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE
07/23/1960
2
SUBIECTS :
cue
JOSE RASCO BERMUDA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION ; Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: — MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 Docld:32325962 Page 1


“DIKECTOR, FBI fa105-860%0

oo
thre, MIAME 6223573) -Way 7,
on x ienalay fo) ewe
“2 payor: P ‘CLIP Hohl) \ .

Re

#£a0M }
cf:

>

ed.

Enclosed are five ‘copies of a letterh

&

The tenor of the information
2 letterhead

oft

Q_sS Operation,

memo very definitely reflects that there is
;§ considerable dissension among Cuban leader,

Due to the seriousness of the i

4 73 ead memorandum
Bats)  atitledf"cLrp"Adated July 23, 1960. It is suggested that ,
1 w) the Bureau disseminate this on a.limited basis,[especially
So25 to cial :
pa?) ;
one This_léetterhead memo is classified "Secret" as
(#D~ it relates maa project which has been sp classified by

I Ga CIA in previo oe u) 9206

tained in the

s of the "CLIp"
nformation furnis'

ie bY CAJIGAS, FERNANDEZ, CUESTA, ROS, and Mrs

Wsubstance of this information

Swas received, to BERNARD REIC

Miami,. He confirmed that it

dissension among these Cubans

Ebppré®iation for having been
eeeris 4

: oe
was furnished promptly, as it
HHARDT, CIA representative in
is true that there is such

. _ He expressed concern and
furnished the informat

> Mr. LAWRENCE BREWER, head of Esso Standard
~' Oil Company, Havana, and Mrs.

* Ofl-executive in Havana, al] of whom now reside in Miami and
who are very anti-Castro. Upon request ‘of: Mr. REICHHARDT,
ear Mrs. VALENTINER was ikequested to refraii £rom/discussing
He this incident with any othe: i

rom discussing. the ma

eed
With regard to Mrs. VALENTINER, she also furnish

Se = ed
j Ree gytwo automobile license numbers which she had observed Jused by
f 3 Pdi pthe Cubans who. participated in the meeting in Apartment #209
f SBE an July 19, 1960. She also stated that she had disclosed
u “the nature of this meeting to several. of her friends, ‘Mrs.
{4 ¢,, WILLIAM ROBINSON

CARL MORRIS, wife of a Standard “~/

¥ persons and to make every effort|

4

hed

p

: yy bo prey @ fyiends &: tter with, a A,
poy t y anges ANS EER uy & a ee eeer 7 2 8
eae SA Gees Gy f 3%
S \ 2. Buge (Engha’ sREG.3f: aa
|| 2m ei BY
a - GED: ; i a ‘ z
«ONG ce tase Na C108 an Ldn nl with ry

: Jprate’ Fi, cteil ew, Fee gf'9 tos omenet f ;

(Die Lenk Pemmsnkena 7 Sf a jpot2ly exad ie /
ieee Tat 16 99 (ba "Me bg PRR eee ais,

HW 50953 DocId:32325962 Page 2
