# 124-10164-10161

## Page 1

124-10164-10161

• 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORMI

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10164-10161

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-4TH NR 8174

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: DOJ/CRIM

TITLE:

DATE: 05/28/1980

PAGES: 36

SUBJECT: 'ADMIN, INSTR, ACK, REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/30/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC 14 FBI LHM, ADMIN PAGES, 2 LISTS, INSERT

•.

NH 50953

DocId:32168184

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2-70 (Rev. 8-3-78)

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

MI. Robert I. Reuch

FROM

Director, FBI

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1-Mr. Dean

DATE: MaY 28, 1980

SUBJECT:

HH

5

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

NOVENBER 72, 1963

DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

letter to the Director

Reference is made to Your

mamosandum dated

(your file

Juda Bada 79.

dated

following (see attached pages).

There is enclosed one copy of the raport of Special Agent

at

A.

This covers the preliminary investigation and no further action concerning

a full investigation will be taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

B.

The investigation is continuing and you will be furnished copies of

reports as they are received.

C. 1

• The investigation requested by you has now been completed. Unless

advised

to the contrary no further inquiries will be made by this Bureau.

D. [] Pursuant to instructions issued by the Department, no investigation will

be conducted in this matter unless

specifically directed by the Department.

E.

Please advise whether you desire any further investigation.

F. [ This is submitted for your information and you will be advised of further

developments.

G. If This is submitted for your information and no further investigation will

be conducted unless specifically requested by the Department.

H. [ This covers the receipt of a complaint and no further action WMDECCORDED

taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

9

JON # .130

ENCLOSURE

(8 167-109060

Enc'.

NOTE:

The enclosed are provided in response to your request in

relet, in whi

Limited invest

i requested that the FBI conduct further

iSjY

(3)

site

Na: 32208104U 9 Savings Bonds Regularly on tire Payroll Savings Plan

5, 74

F91/00J

---

## Page 3

"=-*

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION.

IN THIS DOCUMENT As bracker

7BH-2/9194

9803 BDD GAT 022134g

ExCEPT BRACKENS

KP 5-7-98

SID/KSR 7-20-98 (JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SIGAN OTHERWISE.

United States

OD- YOKE

Department of State

OD-ACID

Department of Defense OD-EARL

Navy

OD - DATH

FBI

CIA

OD- ENVY

KU -BURK*

Clandestine service

KU -DPVE

FI Staff

C] Staff

KU-TUBE

KU-DECK

"Cas" operations

KU - CAGE

(S)

AE

BE

DI

DN

SM

DN

Soviet Union

Poland

Czechoslovakia

Yugoslavia

United Kingdom

AE-Ladle

AM- B100 d

south Korea

5)

AE-Jammer,

Cuba

are

for operations against the soviets

2/24/94

cassi ed by 9843 BAD SAT

(FK)

NH 50953

DocId: 32168184

Page 3

ENCLOSURE

ENCLOSURE

7421

SECRET

---

