}124-10332-10043} | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10332-10043
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER ; CR 109-430-2463
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 01/28/1964
PAGES:- 9
SUBJECTS
SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Secret

1B; 4
Redact
05/26/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

INC LHM

v9

HW 50953 DocId:32313769 Page 1



MM 2-165

Informants utilized in the letterhead memorandum
are as follows:

Fr T-1 is (era)

ed
|_ MM T-2 is MM 492-S (134-44-Sub A-1743)

LEAD
MIAMI:
: J AT MIAMI, FLORIDA :
La will, through appropriate sources and informants,
/\ continue to investigate the activities of. PRIO,

HW 50953 DocId:32313769 Page 2



Re: CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS

seen

count on SOMOZA's full support, and that as soon as SOMOZA
returned from a trip to Japan, a mobilization of men in
Nicaragua would begin ttacks. on Cuba scheduled in
early. December, 1963, ul :

' On November 1,

received, information from that, Ss) i
SALVADO) N. »—member_of—vue—cuoan—ex11e_orga nization if
Unified~Command—for~Liberationwin.Cuba, on October 9, 1963, -

revealed that the plan for the ‘establishment of Cuban.
exile bases in Central America jas drawn up at a meeting
in Nicaragua in July or August | 1963, between former °

Nicaraguan President LUIS SOMO ‘A, PRIO,. and MIGUEL ‘ON, Cubs.

a Cuban. exile leader. This plan was given the name i

"Central American Operation." +The basic aims of the plan MECOLG GAEL

were to secure training bases in Nicaragua, Costa Rica,

and other Central American countries to obtain a central
pool of material aid from the government of these countries,
and to establish operational bases from which to mount
attacks on the Cuban mainland.’ “The principal exile figures
associated with Central. American Operation were named as:

P i CARLOS MARQUEZ STERLING (previously mentioned) ;
) 9 BUSEB TAL, a former Secretary-General of the. Cuban ©

Oe : INO, a former leader of ‘the
Electricians/Trade Union inl¢ iP VERO, a former

Ne

orkers Federation;

editor of ie newspaper, "La Marina,"\in Cuba; LINCOLNKRONDO ,
a fo! ‘esident of the Chamber of Representatives in ICubA;
TA,.operational leader of the Christian Dei

(DREU,_a former Cuban Senator; and_MA r

’
leader of the Movement for Revolutionary Recovery.j

The November 7, 1963, issue of the "Miami News":
carried an article entitled, "Fake Revolt Planned for Cuba,
Says Prio." This.article alleged that a phony Cuban uprising,
controlled by Russia, was being prepared in Cuba to pave the
way for United States recognition of a neutralist regime in Cuba.
PRIO alleged this plan was worked out recently in Havana between
Cuba and Soviet officials, and an unidentified American.

BW 50953

Docld:32313769 Page 3

