124-10212-10266| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10212-10266
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — 100-339235-396
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: LEG, OT a
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 03/22/1972
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : INC LTR, ATTACHMENT

v9.

HW 50953 DocId:32293990 Page 1


OTT+4 (Rev. 12-22-65)

Ottawa letter, 12/28/71. (GFK)

Enclosed are the following communications received from thd’

Gow 76)

Remarks:

"6

fs ios

Dissemination

ea

IKX_|

May be made as received

Original and two copies [RCMP letter, 3/9/72}

2 lee, ated eretez)

(Note stamped restrictions)

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure,
May not be made without further clearance withfRCMP JG.’

er. Cleveland C. Cram is the CIA representative in brtom (6)

CLASSIFIED BY
DECLASSIFY OX

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

New York(100-43479)
Status with this office:
x]
groves
Bureau (Encs .-6) "=~

OB SAP -awr® — seogen

RUC
Pending

GRM:jL.

3) §
— 7

£7,

Date: March 22, 1972
To: Director, FBI (Bufile : 100-339235 )
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO *
~ Attention —— ECE
AN ix Legal Attache, Ottawa ( 1095--2499 REL: 18 int
be = IN THiS DOCUMENT, Extep+
Me [Title - Character Brvekerts TM O
w SUSAN merirowan aan IS-CHINA A bibs SLD [kSE |
ay Reference 1et-97

3h

Do not write in space below

S20 eB BGBIS ~ 3
28 ;

ra
i

972
& MAR 2H y
eee fi \

wat. WN Ty :

HW 50953 DocId:32293990 Page 2


BY HAND “ eo,

PRIERE D’ ADDRESSER LES

a RRESPONDENCE TO :
LL corres! ] LeTTRES comme Sur:

c BE ADDRESSED: ct
LE COMMISSAIRE
GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANAL
OTTAWAM, CANADA

THE COMMISSIONER 7
ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE
OTTAWA, CANADA ,

K1A OR2
HEADQUARTERS ~ DIRECTION GENERALE
your no; 103-2499 ~ : OTTAWA, CANADA
VoTRE Ne z a
oun wo. D_972-15-351

NOTRE N°

March 9, 1972

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,
United States Embassy,
Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

The attachment, a copy of which has been
forwarded to Mr. Cleveland C. CRAM, is further to
our correspondence of December 3, 1971 concerning
Susan WARREN.

Yours very truly, i

(Mbatihenen

A(L.R. Parent), : :
ssistant Commissioner
eputy Director General

Security Service

£0 Tor Me kot
WS HONS
weHORNY

whaois9. -Dockd:32293990 page 3



March 9, 1972

Cpe.

A reliable Source has advised that on
February ll, 1972 F.R.C. iimbassy officials in Otvawa
contacted Susa ‘a EN, New York and requested her
to come to the Y in Ottawa. According to source,
WARREN was committed to speaking engagements in the
U.S. on February 16/17, 1972, however expected to be a
in Ottawa during thé weekend of February 20, i972. :

Ze Source later learned that WARKZ% arranged
to visit the Embassy on February 26, 1972. Source
had no indication as tv tne purpose of the proposed
meeting and is unable to confirm that WARREN visited
the Embassy as planned.

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32293990
