424-10062-10388] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 11/17/20

AGENCY =
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Agency Information

FBI
124-10062-10388

HQ

105-82555-656

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION =
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI"
SULLIVAN, W. C
BELMONT, A. H.

12/03/1963
7

LHO, POST-RP, TRAVEL, ALLEGED $6500 PAYMENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

12/10/1997

APPROVAL OF CIA

v9.1
HW 52333 DocId:32140801 Page 1


Peper “meee “CIA HAS I
Stas at AH

UNITED STATES GO+.RNMENT

Memorandum

, Callahan
Cénted

SUBJECT ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY &
3YNOPSIS dl a i /
. On 11/25/63 at Mexico City, Mexico, information pee rom
yilberto*Al varadyy Ugarte Nicaraguan national s Central Intelligence (CIA),
. . at on 9/18/63 he saw|Lee Harvey-Uswald, in Cuban Consulate

in Mexico Ci id witnessed payment Bs to Oswald. Alv. claimed
among those also present when money passed to Oswald was Sylviajguran, Mexi-
zan national employed in Cuban Consulate. Alvarado further claimed he, or4

yecasions in late 9/63, had tried to furnish above information to U. 8.

‘mbassy, Mexico City, but Embassy switchboard did not put him.in contact 32

vith a U.S. representatives. Search of Embassy switchboard records failed © >

to disclose any such calis were logged. Bureau investigation established @ 3

dswald was in New Orleans from 9/17 until approximately 9/25/65 when he & ia]

Jeparted for Mexico. Oswald's presence in Mexico from 9/26 until 10/35/63 “Sin

: verified. aH a aa ie 2 2a
~ <ULSo_Ambassador.to Mexico, Thomas CAWann, through.State Depart- ze <

nent requested FBI assistance in directing instant investigation in Mexico. 35/4

3ureau Supervisor Laurence P, Keenan designated to go to Mexico City to Qe

assist and arrived 11/27/63.4Mexican authorities interviewed Sylvia Duran i

and are convinced she is telling truth when she states she recalled meeting
dswald at Cuban Consulate on 9/87 and 9/28/63 and unsuccessfully endeavored
to assist him-in obtaining Cuban and Russian visas. Mexican authorities
also convinced Duran not involved in any political activity in Cuban Con-
sulate and confident her duties restricted to routine consular matters,
dn 11/28/63 authority obtained to release Alvarado to Mexican authorities -
for interrogation. On 11/29/63 Mexican authorities advised Alvarado's £G
: story "fascinating" and stated he was unable to pick out photo of Duran. z
Later on 11/29/63, information received Alvarado admitted to Mexican. _
authorities his story fabrication designed to provoke U.S. into kicking
Castro out of Cuba. CIA, Mexico, advised Nicaraguan source states. approxi-
- mately 20 to 25% of. information previously furnished by Alvarado unreliable

and that he had re tion of considering himself more intelligent- than his
control officer. ¥¥ju npn :

On 11/30/65 Ambassador Mann advised since Alvarado's statements
fabrication, no longer necessary for SA Keenan to remain in Mexico, Keenan
returned Washington, D.C.,12/1/63. Information received thdt Alvarado now
claims his original statements true and that he recante
violence, from Mexican authorities.

i it Fi -b
LPK:mls" (9) REC 12 /0S- SASSS

1-Mr. Belmont; 1-Mr. Sullivan; 1-Mr. Rosen; —
_1-Mr. D. E. Moore; 1-Mr. Sizoo; 1-Mr,
1-Mr. Keenan; 1-Liaison

\ eo os
B yvEczs6| melon ©

HW 52333 DocId:32140801 Page 2

unger fear of



oe c G 3
Memo to Mr. Belmont

RE: ASSASSINATION OF PR i y*
mc.

witnessing the passing of $6500 to be true. This official advised
that Alvarado was being treated cordially and that he was either
telling the truth.or was the world's best liar. This official advised
that Alvarado's interrogation was continuing and that this interview
would now be conducted in a little stronger manner. He furnished no
further elaboration on this statement but stated that Alvarado, who
is apparently familiar with the interior of the Cuban Consulate, was
unable to pick out a photograph of Sylvia Duran from a group of photos
of female individual s4@eY 1)

n the evening of 11/29/63, Legat, Mexico, received informa-
tion from a high-level Mexican official that Alvarado reportedly admitted
his story was a pure “Cibedgron trite to provoke the U. S. into

——

kicking Castro out of Cuba n 11/30/63, Winn Scott, Chief, CIA, Mexico
City, advised that he had received information from Mexican authorities
who were interviewing Alvarado that Alvarado had admitted that informa-
tion furnished by him regarding Oswald's presence in the Cuban Embassy
on 9/18/63 and the information regarding a pay-off to Oswald was a

ure fabrication for thg,above-mentioned reason. Scott advised that
Franklyn Wheelock Garciafjan official of the Nicaraguan Security Service
Who is very familiar w: Alvarado, arrived in Mexico City on 11/29/63

and during the last few hours of Alvarado's interrogation was in a room
adjoining that room in which Alvarado was being interviewed. As a .
consequence, he was kept adyised of the progress of Alvarado's inter-
view. According to Scott, [Wheelock] had advised that Alvarado in the El
Past had furnished information concerning Nicaraguan Communist Party
activities and f: 20 ta_25% of the information furnished by Alvarado
was unreliable. eelock Mescribed Alvarado as a person who believed @J
himself to be more’ intel igent than his control ‘officer, Scott stated
no information was available that the Mexican authorities had used any

violence in securing an admission from Alvarado that his statements
were fabrication. (& Oy = et aia

Investigation by both Legat, Mexico, and CIA, Mexico, looking
towards identifying other witnesses allegedly present in the Cuban Con-
sulate at the time Alvarado claims he saw Oswald receiving the above-
mentioned $6500, was unable to uncover the white male who possessed a
Canadian passport or the red-haired Cuban Negro. it is noted Cuban
Vice Consul Azcue reportedly returned to Cuban on 11/18/63, Mexican
authorities have been requested to assist in the possible identification
of the above-mentioned white male with Canadian passport and red-haired
Cuban Negro who allegedly witnessed the pay-off to Oswald. However, it
appears that Alvarado's descriptions of those persons who reportedly -
\witnessed the pay-off are intentionally vague, thus making it impossible
to identify or interrogate othent-and- TeSv Tae baran as the only logical
person available to confirm or refute Alvarado's Statements (g GOum)

SECH

Ay

HW 52333 DocId:32140801 Page 3 '


C ©. Gg

Memo to Mr. Belmont

RE: ASSASSINATION OF PR KENNEDY:
SECRE!

On 11/30/63, Anbas sai fa (LANES EVA 6a. that /sincé it was de-
termined that Alvarado's stateménts.Werelfalse, it fas not necessary
for SA Keenan to remain away from his duties in Wa: ington, He ex-
pressed his sincere appreciation for the Bureau's cooperation and
assistance, and requested that his personal gratitude be conveyed tos
the Director. (9 ;

SA Keenan returned to Washington, D. C., on-12/1/63.

FAs of 11/30/63, Alvarado was being held by Mexican authorities

on the charge that he illegally entered Mexico: Alvarado, in his
Statement to Mexican authorities, advised that he had entered Mexico
without a Mexican visa and after bribing a Mexican Immigration inspecto
lexican authorities advised CIA, Mexico, that Alvarado would probably
e deported to Nicaragua in the near future} wer? apes

Flegat, Mexico Ci cable 12/2/63 ‘advised that Alvaradd } Xe)
in his statement tofWheelo. aimed that his original statements. wére

rue and Mat reCdnted under fear of violence from the Mexican y,

authorities. ®

ADDENDUM BY W. C. SULLIVAN/LL - 12/3/63

Alvarado should be immediately subjected to a polygraph
examination. This is being handled.

HW 52333 DocId:32140801 Page 4
