‘(124-10213-10483] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10213-10483
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-121229-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: = CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: — 05/27/1963
PAGES: = 2
SUBJECTS :
LCA, ASSOC, CUBA IN ARMS
DOCUMENT TYPE: | PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 06/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA APPROVAL OF C1A

COMMENTS

wd

HW 50953 DocId:32294707 Page 1



ee

Vs (F..\- 4

or INFORMATION .REPORT INFOR ATION REPORT

. CENTRAL INTELs2 ENCE AGENCY 7 |

\ Fis,
This material contains information affecting the National Defense -of tiie United Stotes within the meoning of the Espionage Lows, Title
18, USC" Sect 799" and 794, tbe Fanumition or revelation oFupch Im ony mane toon unauthorized person prohibited by, low

C-0-K

\
PoI-D-B-N-P-ThA-L
b \

yf :
COUNTRY ook | \ REPORT NO, O0— K-3,262,509,

susJect"Pfente Interno de Unidad Revolucionarig BATE DISTR. 27 May 63 Yo |
(BTOR) 4 / 4
NO. PAGES 2 U

‘ CIA HAS NO OBJECTION. TO :
: DECLASSIFCAT! ANDIORaeerewces | Guide 303-BR
RELEASE OF CiA 1FORMATION | a |
PATE OF 95 apr 63 and earlier jy THIS DOGUMENT, Et ¢ BraAchels

INFO.
. R ‘ 118-97
FACES ~--/25 Apr 63 and edrlier K ese |

THis is UNEVALUATED INFORMATION I=

SOURCE: Cuban national presently residing in the United state

or
He is presently employed as a reporter on a large
newspaper and is fn close contact with Cuban exile leaders.

[This report was developed by an AFNIN Air Force representative assigned
to the office of preparation.]

dE-CTA LIBRARY is @ copy, in Spanish, of the Frente Interno
oiucionaria~- FIUR.]

1. A Cuban exile, Julio xe , residing at 4823 Bast Stl
\ Florida, claims to be the US Delegate of the "Cuban Government in Arms":
He also’ claims that he recéived a copy of a proclamation prepared by
nenbers of the FIUR, in Cuba, and’ was: authorized to release it to .
publicity sources. “He provided me with a copy of the FIUR declaration.
{See On File. Material.] - -_

jourt,Hieleah, auc 4

2. On 25 Apr 63-Leal furnished me with a copy of a docuent, in Spanish,
which showed the appointments ‘to executive and cabinet posts of the
\ Provisional Government, of..the-Republic of Cuba in Arms. ‘Thenames are:

President = To be announced gia latef date for reasons of security.
Vice-President, - Dr GustaygCuerya\ Rubio ~

r+ Dr Jose Manuel(Gutierrez

Tétary to the President - 7, ae ata leter-date.

| ; ‘Minister of State --Dr Carlge\Pr: ocarr}
Minister of Communi¢ations ~ Luig¢Cont
*-Minister_of. Transportation - Dr’ Aurelianp¥Sanchegs Arango. —

ister of Commerce - AbeliMestre wy;

re fister_of Justice --Dr-Ricards-RefasttSavtined—— iti
ir Ww ' Mingster of Interior - Dr Manuel Antonio gefVarona
i Werone

\ Minister. of Edudation - Dr Jose Ignac: a.

Minister of_Public. Works - Ing Manue}) Ress ee
| Minister of Health - Now in Cuba, name not revealed fomsecurity reasons.
\ Minister of Defense - Now'in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons. 4.

\\ Minister éf Lebor - Noy in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Copy to. any usho {$I
by 3 for
ion

LY xsnox

ate

UN 4 1963 by casaat

rere)

‘eluded tram automatic i
soudst downer ;
sere eclasifation Z

ec it

ae 7 [ear



ea | 5
al
wy
BY

<
£73 §

3.

NW 50953

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-2-I-A-i, 00<K-3,262,509

ween i Ree dh vy bee,
we | «6 bby
‘piicheter'ot Agriculture - Nov in Cubs, name not/Fevesled for. “security i
reasons. me,
Minister of Public Housing - to de announced até ‘lated ‘ate. “a
The following individuals have been named Ministers without HPEPPBS aot
subsecretaries: A iA SOS a Bras |
Jose I sdfkivero ioiarane,
Mant Vor ea)

j yes Wa
: - dorge<Cast By

5 Tacreeape/i tiste*Falla
{  agustoxPernangex/Conde

“Designated Ambassey

valley; -0r Gullierme) Belt Ge

OAS, Delegate - Dr Herminio/ fore fila Curckh oS &
Rk ead

I doubt that Leal has been designated as’ the US representative for FIUR,

and do not believe that the documents he gave me originated in Cuba. I

suspect that another. group of exiled Cuban politicians wrote the document :
in the US, and are trying to get/pational ity in order to get support. /
I have recently heard that Eloy¥GutierrezMehoyo has been added to the list /

of Cabinet appointments. I ‘very much that Gutierrez and Ray would be 4
fully accepted by the majority of ‘Cubans in exile, ©

wend- fos ian nt

