# 124-10301-10106

## Page 1

124-10301-10106

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/3/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10301-10106

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1499-118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR PLANS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/19/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

FS, BKG, ACA, PEP, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32309810

Page 1

---

## Page 2

C-14+196

fan, ins

I - Nasca

SAG, Miami (2-192)

12-10-63-

Director,

FBI

(2-1499)-118

AGG

APPROPFLATE

0975

AND 1E

ADVICEC

SLIP(5

DATE

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, aka

Frank Fiorini

IS • CUBA

SECRET

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

1113161

164164

SPO BAACC

Declassify are pARRI

+t9/10181

for each office is copy of CIA letter

correspondencSponge

11-19-63, capt tiere pesent i drin Brietcanenith enciosures

20€

CLASSIFEE

Recipient offices will check indices on

• individuals

mentioned

in attached saterial as residing in their respective

territories and furnish brief sunmary of pertinent data

метью

UNLADED TO SEORE

available concerning these individuals to Bureau together withy

recommendations as to whether investigations should be

(190-16444-259

instituted on the individuals mentioned therein.

Recipient

offices should,

in addition,

review the names of individuals

BJECTI

whose addresses are

incomplete or who are identified merely by.

teleplone numbers with the thought in mind of identlfying then

0.261,

if the fragmentary information appears to pertain to the areas

3 806

covered by recipient offices.

Miami is origin in this matter. For the information

DECLASSIF GATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

EXCEpTI

IN THIS DOCUMENT,

KP 5-11-9

of offices, subject is prominent American soldier of fortuner

who has long been involved in anti-Castro activities.

For the

information of Miani®

•CIA,

on 12-563 advised it was making

tho attachod information available to INs, Customs, Far, and

K(S)

сілл

911658 macon 1/8181

Enclosures - 6

2 = Denver

- New York

Norfolk

Springfield

-. WEO

(Enclosures "

Enclosures -

(Enclosures

(Enclosures

6

6

6

AGEN

OFFICES

POUN

(Enclosures »

ALI INTORÑATION CONTAINED

520

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan?

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy

VHN: jal

(14)

BRIN IS UNCLASSIFTED EXCEPT DECL SSIFY ON: 254

FIERE SIONN OTHERWISE.

JFK)

MAILED 1O

DEC 9 = 1963

COMM-FBI

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE

PAGE

TWO

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDND 8Y

REASON

FCIM, II,

SETREN

DATE OF CE

DECLASSIFICATNAI

2

no, in 129)

12(10188-1

NH 50953 DocId: 32309810 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Letter to SAC,

Miami

Re:

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, aka

2-1499

SEBNEY

NOTE:

subject, American soldier of fortune

has long

been thorn in sidé of U. S. authorities primarily because

of his anti-Castro endeavors.

one ine contente versus on to be pia mie; otta tri

"advised it

obtained

appears to be complete list of his

decentlete lets contacts vienne el

his continuing appearance on anti-Castro scene and his

involvement with others throughout country, it is felt the

names of his contacts should be checked through indices of

interested offices as indicated above.

NIll Kerbe SCIA

12-5-63 advised data in its 11-19-63 communication ould be

on 4)

gIven to HAA

Shys connection s Casmoms, the f

JOlt is noted in

the Items found in subject's

briefcase were air navigational charts of various British

possessions.

1,818

CIA INFOREMAIN CLASSIFIGO

ASPREVIOUSLNNTTO DER S/2SKG

SEBTA ECL -721N326-4/27/90

2-1499-118

J0953

DocId: 32309840

Page 3

---

