124-10279-10018| if [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/7/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10279-10018
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 109-12-221-1790
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/30/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
EGD, ASSOC, ARRESTED, ROLE, ACAPULCO MURDERS
DOCUMENT TYPE; PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA.
COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32301683 Page 1


: . DIST 30 6
LE lt pa ef AOI PO! SE eet ee

CIA HAS NC OBJECTION 70

centrat INTELLIGENCE AGEN “ . ROUTINE
. = ..  Intek.gence Information C_ale  '-#475

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MG (SECO) cS. ARMY NAVY AIR) GIA/NMCC NIC NSA OCR SDO_ AID
USIA. ONE ORR cS CGS

tains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within she meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title 18, U.8.0.
‘Tle material on an nf i a ia eens on teat aiseuthorized ‘potssa ts prohibited by in. :

. downgrading ord
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Tedtict
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE,

CITE TDCS-314/13013-67
or aleegdeteeat sed eA ama daa

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L. 300659Z

i : ALL FBI-INFORMATION CONTAINED Ly
COUNTRY: MEXICO | HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED_ We
Seer bate Gets) lala SLD
DOI 28 AUGUST 1967 (Fe EK oh a

REST OF FEDERAL DEPULY—CESAR—DEL—ANGEL_ FUENTES.
FOR ABITATIONAL ACTIVITIES. IN. GUERRERO

ee

_  ACQE MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT
- NO. HMM-11,295 z)
1 z SOURCE: OFFICER WITH ACCESS TO INFO a
a ns
Sz BS :
Z5 27% Ons REPORTING
2=S5¢\ : :
at SHAS BEEN RELIABLE . SINCE EARLY 1966.
sues an
8 +8
ak EQ LOD. C1 oo é
a SY oe REC 39 ae H
= 1.. CFIELD COMMENT2-“SQUE, RODEXQF, FEDERAL ay FROM THE Afb
2 ef. ee
STATE -OF VERACRUZ, CESAR DEY anger t IYENTES, “IN, A CLASH BES

@ SEP
UNION IN ACAPULCO, 6 1867.

——
GUERRERO, OVER THE WEEKEND: OF 19-29 AUGUST 1967 » RESULTING

TWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF THE,.COPRY,GROWERS'
IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED, Has BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN “PRESS.
THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT. _FOR

HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY, HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRE
By eo ae EB 8
oO4 SEP12 19GIZ] C-O-N-FH1-D-E-N-T-I-A-L__NQ FOREIGN DISSEM 274

SOG (2 22F

AW

50953 Doclda:32301683 Page 2


Q 19 - fb U8

“hug 3k hus AMPED:

LIAISON

C~O-N-F=I-D-E-N

SECTION,
<I-A-b

oN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

) WITH HIS TERM: ON 1 SEPTEMBER. ):

IN-41475

“TCS -314/13013-67

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

(classification; (dissem contri

- 2. ON 28 AUGUST 1967, AGENTS..OF THE MINISTR OF GOVERN- .

MENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED. FEDERAL D PUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL AS

7

HE WAS LEAVING THE. HOME OF. ELENAAQQRRO D

PLAYWRIGHT,

“ACAPULCO MURDERS.”

5. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| C-O-N-FI-D=E-N-T=I-A-L

(PAZ, LEFTIST. MEXICAN
HE 1S BEING INTERROGATED ABOUT HIS ROLE IN THE

a

a at 4
LS" é ai
7 cae
cpa erate a

HW 50953 DocId:32301683 Page 3

