# 124-10185-10098[c06716649]

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNIT

SPORTE

STATES DEPARTMENT OLIC

CE

FEDERAL DUREAU ON INYESTIGATION

NASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

In Reply, Plouse Refer lo

File No.

February 7, 1956

JFK (1) (B)

CENTRAL INPELLIGENCE AGANCY

OPERATIONS IN TO UNITED STATES

(1) CIA will not initiate an investigation of any

foreign official in the United States without the concurrence

and cooicination of the rBI.

In this context, the ter

"investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or

procedures (such as physical or tochnical surveillances

or neighborhood inquiries aiming at developing information

concerning an individual's activities or background;

"investigation" does not include the acceptance or the

devolopment of information through social contacts or conticis

normally made by CIA agents in discharging their cover

functions.

(2) CIA will sent concurrance and coordination of

the

FBI before approaching for recruitnent ary foreign

official or communist-bloc visitor in the United States.

The FBI will concur and coordinaio if the proposed action

does not conflict with any operation, current or plarned,

including active investigation of the FBI.

(3) CIA will advise the FBI prior to any planned

meeting between a CIA asset and a foreign official. or

communist-bloc visitor of known or presumed interest to

the FBi (this would include all communist-bloc ufiicials

and visitors) for purposes of assessment and social

development.

(1) Clandestine CIA staff operatives, domestic

American agents of CIA, and foreign agents

of CIA recruites

abrond who come to the

United States

vill be identified to

the FBI by name or appropriate desciiption depending on

the national

security interest involved.

(5) Pursuant to paragraph 4 above, when a CIs agent

L

arrives in the United States for a visit or for an

SECRET

GHOUP. I

Excluded from automatio

doungrading and

declassification

SEBRET

---

## Page 2

JFK(I)(B)

Central Intelligence Agoncy

Operations 12 the United States

JFKG) (B).

assignnent, the Burenu will be advised and the two agencies

will confer regarding the handling of the agent in the

Tas indivadesi peculiaraties.

It is recognized that cach case will have

The governing principle will

be positive intelligence interest as weighed against

internal security factors.

CIA will continuc its

contractual

relationship for the purpose of handling

the training, the procurement of

positive foreign

intelligence,

the fulfillment of CIA comminents to

the agent, and the preparation of the agent for his

next assignment abroad.

(6)

In those cases shere CIA will be handling its.

agent. in the United Staies, CIA will. scrvice IBI security

or countcrintelligence requirements and will provide the

FBI all ajent information bearing on countcrintelligence

of internal security mattars, including the scope and

nature of the ircut's access

to information and the

identities of the agent's significant contacts,

particularly

in the commnist-bloc field.

In such cases where CIA

servicing has been inadequate to FBi internal security

interests, the FBI will have direct access to the agent.

2

SECHER

---

