{124-10221-10396 (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
FBI
124-10221-10396
HQ
97-4474-386, 387

Document Information

FBI
SAC, NY
DIRECTOR, FBI

03/22/1968
6

MIRR, OBA, ROMERO, ISRAEL, ADMIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A

Redact

07/01/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

INC 3 MEMO.

v9.1

AW 50953 DocId:32341003 Page 1

Date:

6/4/2015



SECRED.
sie, New York (105~44795) 3/29/68
105 REC 99 1 - Mr. Nasca
» FBI (97-4474) <

| Y]
EWTO INSURRECCIONAL BE ae
— BEVOLUCIOWARIA (MIRR) 4. 24_G7Declassify on:
IED EY SOL &.

UN. ZOA_..

|. CEA on 3/25/68 advised as follows: (><)() (“)

@) CIA docs not have a: en a a -
the activities of the MIRE. (><) -

(3) CIA 1s not directing the activities of
‘Br. Orlando Bosch Avila. (F"1K)(u)

G3) CIA does not have any merational interest in
israel Romero and CIA is not directing his activities, re)
(4) CIA is not furnishing any financial or material (
aseistance to MIRE. Go<)¢X) 4) |

This is for your confidential information and is 4
mot to be disseminated outside your office.

CA MR e Ano Obs.

PS 1 Ao leis
90 ‘SE Pew MEY /4) ine, ;
3 S DOCUM i 4803 old}. ire Uaee
2 J eter fon Anis /
S VHN;sed (8) Tm 9 “3-47
= £ New York requested we determine from CIA whether CIA had

@perational interest in captioned anti-Castro group; the activities |
of ite leader Bosch; the relationship of CIA with Israel Romero
an MIRR representative; and whether CIA 5) rnishing financial
_. amd military assistance to the MIRR. {ul
shed by[ Gordon

Toléon

g PeLiscts The CIA data set forth above <0 fw

Mohr

Rothwel yee, to SA'S.J. Papich. (6<9(s
fa : 2
0)

reueryee unr] SE EGRET. ’

Terdqegye

om 50953 DocId:32341003 Page 2


/ s010-108

. / 1 7 qi 10
' “UNITED STATES Gs vERNMENT cee - CIA HAS NO One She
: d: psc Shyer DECLASSI A: . NL
Memoran um RELEASE OF CIA WEURMATIO
IN THIS DOCUMENT, get foe.
To Mr. D. J. Brennan, anf “pire: March 27, 1968
ee
FROM: §, Jy Papicn li CLASSIFIED BY
i DECLASS' ual ON: 25%
sugject: CyoVvIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL 99 7]
DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) a
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference is made to New York airtel dated
March 22, 1968,

Gordon Rothwell,| Qotral Intelligence Agency (CIA),
furnished e following to the Liaison Agent on March 25, 1968

fo
" (1)/ CIA does not have any operational interest in
the activiti e MIRR. (23>), u)

is not SOG) the-activities of
vila. (St) Cx) hes or

(3) CIA does not have any operational interest in :
Isract}ianero;. the Agency .is not directing his activities (gug(K uj

(4) CIA ig not fupnishing any financial or material
assistance to uta. f><)Qd{u) ne

- q

4
The above information is being directed to the : he

»

z ALLix~ attention - the Latin-American Section.

x SIP:c1b (%j; wes

i (4) (i Minko LEAT CI re)
¥ Le by

D ‘

x

} S
w ~
3% i - tisieentee mene Saas on: QADR
=m 1 - Mr. Papich
as Gu we Ge. fz Ano $u6 fs 1-4)
ins QAssiFieo Pert Mar

hay crag: 4

_ WH>edd| REC 99 94

*2u,suf safer Pa
ee LE 347

aoe 11 MAR 29 1968

—

AW 50953 DocId:32341003 Page 3
