'124-10185-10098| * | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Cy

“eS ormonas ten Ho, 10 ree VEZ
pic aac ne enn fon Z|
_ UNITED STATES GUVERNMENT biog
ifs
|» Memorandum pres
foe vn ; eh
| TO. : Br. ©. De DeLoach DATE: 6/25/70 ergo
i } : : ile : aa kite
FROM : W, C. Sullivan : : Tela Room

a 5 S ‘ Gondy
SUBJECT: LIAISON WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) we Lily
WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE é oh.

The Director has inquired regarding the nature of
bany liaison existing between the Washington Field Office (WFO)
fand CIA, Limited liaison does exist, being addressed to
Specific operational cases and name checks.

CGRTATARD
WEREIN IS UNGLASSIVIHD BECKPH

FERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

: WFO, of necessity, is in contact with CIA concerning
specific cases in the espionage field, For example, WFO handles
leads to interview the Soviet Gene Yuri Nosenko, who is

t

ORKATIO:

RE

under CIA control and support. the present time, there is
considerable liaison with respec to the Czechoslovakian infor- —
{ mant, "Gimme," who will defect 6/26/70. CIA is providing a
"safehouse" and support for hin, 5) Je sya)

oy

dh

In addition{ cIA has a domestic operations office
(i the District which makes name checks with WFO and secures apt)
(seatesoned information concerning foreign diplomatic personnel,
lo liaison is conducted with respect to policy matters and the
objective of all contacts is the Saiet of immediate opera-
tional matters,

ON: —

6/25/70 A ENDUM BY,MR. TOLSO)
1 thought~al such contacts were to be handled by letter.

2

g§ sy ACTION:

i > For the Director*s information,

ae

~i :

TS Ba i AN be Zo fx

SOQ 1= Mr, DeLoach “i474, J ome
1- Mr. Sullivan “= ence
1 = Wr, Branigan 1B JUL 18 isha bs
1l-Mr, Gray
1 = Liaison - Se _
1 = Mr. Cassidy 4 o-L6F9

oe a3 MH $2 OW a |

GAD min eed tre IS oT:
(yk z oo |

pn Zz 2 GbIso- pa

