[124-90137-10222] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

COMMENTS :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90137-10222

HQ
CR 105-26493-7

Document Information

FBI

HQ
CIA

07/01/1959
4

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL,
DR. SANTIAGO REY PERNA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A

Redact

09/28/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32337456 Page 1


(cer.

on SECRET "

Director tinea
Central Intelligence Agency ita} : J

NOTE: er. Rey is being brought to_U.S. unde. rrangements !
made b . Our files indicate Mr.[Kilpatrick}ehd Colonel H
Caldwell King of CIA are probably those who facilitated his c

visite In view of obvious purpose of trip, it is believed )
we should find out from CIA what is going onoSp There are

increasing indications of conferences with i ential Cuban oe
leaders who oppose Castro, particularly by State Department, ]

and since we are not being apprised of any U.S. moves to back
the Castro opposition, it is believed we should inquire
promptly where there are indications of official or semi-
official encouragement. Jt is not believed we should )
investigate Dr. Rey while he is here. Miami Office has been
in contact with Benitez and Faget, who are to be contacted by aire
Rey and who have professed to be cooperatives We are not. :
asking Miami to interview Benitez and Faget until after i
Dr. Rey's departure. This will afford some idea of whether .
they will come to us voluntarily and give us a straight story

on opposition plannings Thota received from Mexico is CIA

data f}uhich has been given to State and Bureau making no (38) u) y
further dissemination. Bureau data mentioned herein was d
‘furnished to State by letter 2/18/54. rperaetorfat)(le)

since it possibly concerns CIA covert operation IY

x ve

HW 50953 DocId:32337456 Page 2

