f124-90138-10020] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] __

|
|
i
i
I
I
\
|

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

FBI
124-90138-10020

HQ

CR 64-45716-356

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA
HQ

08/30/1962
2

CIA LIAISION MATERIAL
JESUS DE IRAGUEN OWNER OF THE MOTOR LAUNCH DON
AQUILINO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

09/28/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32337751 Page 1


ai f, Behir tes vw Unjledk Steras X ce. a

“rg

jo.

© bubs, t

, AW 50953

KET Eres, sa, \
atts Coungrauing 8,
_teelessiicton

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

os recTi0N TO.
CIA Has NO CRLESTION TO

rOFWATION, eng Gus 1962

iN THIS = DOCUNENT. eneep! be nr
54
TO : Director Pid Bp Gs
Federal Bureau of Investigation “ead
Attention: Mr. 8S. J. Papich,

sonst

FROM : Deputy Director rans
SUBJECT : Jes de IRAGUEN, aa) of the Motor Launch
On AQUILINO"
ns Naren

1. The following information was received by a field

representative of this Agency from]
aa

a. On 26 June 1962 the motor launch "DON
AQUILINO", registered in Venezuela and flying a
Panamanian flag, arrived in Trinidad with a crew
of nine, including the owner, Jesus..c RAGUEN
De IRAGUEN, reputedly a wealthy Cuban c tizen,

_was born_in Habana, on 15 December, 1916,. and is.
domiciled in Veneto? The vessel. left. Trinidad
on 26 June 1962 cleared for Martinique, but was
expected to call at other islands, G@ucluding
Puerto Rico. a

ea,

b.° From previous information and from
debriefing of a crew member, Angel Alfons: ‘ORRES ;
who was discharged upon arrival of the l&unch,
source gathered that de IRAGUEN, a strong ‘supporter
of CASTRO, is traveling arouhd the area on. the
pretext of fishing, but is actually spreading
Communist doctrine and distributing Communist 7
literature at the various ports of call, includ;
ing La Guaira, Venezuela.

ec. TORRES was born‘on 2 August 1
Victoria in the State of Aragua,, Ver e
iS Siigie" aia Pesiaes ‘at “at 99" San Pascaul, oa
Aquelmada No. 4 Sarrias,,.Caracas. JORRES. stated
that he is a seaman by profess iow Anas embarked
on the "DON AQUILINO" as an unpaid crew member

because he was unemployed at the time and had

Lh ee
ce 10 SEP 4 1
a RB

a 6F4S TE, Vidaee zs

on

DocId:32337751 Page 2


no money and would at least be able to eat.

2. mntorned this Agency's
representative that..in 1961, BOTTERWEG, Chief of Police in
Curacao, reported that a Cuban by the name of Jesus de
IRAGUEN was engaged in pro-Castro activiti in collabora-
tion with a seaman named Nicolaas Loureng@eNGELHARDT. aka
Lorenzo, who was born in 1901 in Bonaire, Netherlands West

_Indies, At the title it Was believed that” these mén were —
elandestinely shipping Cubans ,ayound the Catena te
were two boats. involved, the@SPORTSMAN" and WVELVA",

3. This office has no further information ‘on the above
individuals and would appreciate receiving. any information
the addressees may have or may develop on them, Any addi-

tional information which may come to the attention of this
Agency will be forwarded to the addressees.

CSCI-3/772, 452
CSCI-3/772, 452

ce: Commissioner of. Customs
Immigration and Naturalization Service

SECRET

4

Docld:32337751 Page 3
