# 124-90146-10107

## Page 1

124-90146-10107

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

identification Form

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90146-10107

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-111 THRU 127

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/06/1964

50

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS : Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 20 MEMO, 2 LHM, 3 ENVELOPE, SS, NOTE, 2 LET

....

v9.1

1N 50953

DooId: 32339275

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TRAL INTELZIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25. D. C.

24 JUN 1965

Blind

SSIBED

-BY S

ALL FBP INFOR

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director for Plans Harr

SUBJÈCT: Fransmittal of Letters -- Hodee W. Edwards and A

B.

Spellman

Richard Gibson

g.A.

1. Forwarded as Attachment 1, herewith, is a letter sent to

SUGAR on 17 May by Hodee W. EDWARDS, an American woman

now, living in Ghana.

EDWARDS was a member of the CPUSA

I8/00-4462

a number of years ago but broke with the party, and is now, according

"to SUGAR, sympathetic to the Chinese line. The "Lionel" first

referred to in the fourth paragraph of this letter is Lione

MELMORRISON

South African member of the Al

[ro-Asian Journalist Association (AAJAT

secretariat. "(MORRISON recently had a case of jaundice but is said

c)

to have recovered.) "King Street" refers to the British Communist •

Party. "The Winneba Conference" is of course the Fourth Afro-Asian

POSE, COPY FILET

Peoples Solidarity Conference, 9-17 May 1965). In the final paragraph

on page two, Mrs. EDWARDS erroneous.

assumes that SUGAR was

planning to come to Ghana with Jacques

GRIPPA and Nils ANDERSON;

AFK)

according to SUGAR,

this is based on

her misreading of his letter to

her.

Mrs. EDWARDS is referring to herself when she speaks of the

"white American female Jew."

As at

in vorare forwarding a letter to SuGAR-from d

MERLIMAN

dated 19 May and sent from the United States :

SPELLMAN,

70015

105-

SuGAr

• Richard GREG

93072-17.7

Convicted With an on or Bine

TO CAMERA JUN 30 1965.

'of?

Congrattee.

exes. SECRET

GHOUr

Excluded fan eutenalt

sht

6 / 1965

NN 50953 DocId:32339275

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

---

## Page 3

SEURE!

age about 29, worked for Jacques VERGES in Paris in the spring of

1964, without pay. Then he went to Cairo for the OAU meeting, anc

returned to the U.S. to work with the Progressive Labor Movement.

He is also a contributor of cultural articles to The Nation. His wife

is French.

CSCI-316/02634-65

Attachments: 2

SECRET

-2-

HH 50953 DocId: 32339275

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO:

Chief,

KUDESK

FROM:

Chief

of station, Lond

Attachment No. 1 to

8 June

"OBLA-43,4

1965

• Po Do. Box 31

Kumasi,

Ghana

27 May, 1965

Dear.

As always,

it was good to hear from you with your incisive observa-

tions.

I'm loaded with news and hope I can rerember all. I want to

you after I answer yours of the 14th.

As to the Fishing and Marketing Coops, Round One is ours; but the

fight has only begun.

Big plans are under way, what between chartered

vessels und locally made fishing vessels, private supplies of fish, etc.

But so far, the Cold Stores are still closed and for fish, you must go

to the local market, where the supply is plentiful, even it double in

price to what ive were selling it for. However, if they carry out the plans

again that "these people" will

then watch out for the brass knucks in the gloves auring thefnext one...

The Secretary is talking of my going with him to Nigeria to take part in

nect dealings with the Polish gov't reps. there who are transferrins

sone fishing yessels to us...I'a love to go, but seeing is belzeving.

As to Mar

áusei, she's about as bad as har husband, and the Abraham

Cormission did set her backra peg.

Iney asked her a question and she

WiLlie Abraham told the De.

the actually apol-

Chalk one up for our side.

Bed in jondon, it which time she told reporters

she would return to Ghana

whenever she pleased and take the bed with her,

She returned to

hana at will apparently, but I haven't heard whether she brought the bed.

No doubt she'a have been untilling to pay ine customs

duties since the

Ghana gov't would get that.

I hardly EVER see Julia

though I

occasionally see his wife.

to put it mildly, but I am

biàing

my time.

May, 1965 and I thought it was fairly 800à,

I shall l00k one up

have the inside track here and I doubt filian dets a comleiely free

sie mall at on of slow boat

shall also drop a line to Roge

next Accra visits... Any frieran

form an alliance for future reference ana present, enjoyment.

As to Idonel, I inquireà first off fron the Indonesian delegates to

the AAPSO Conference at Virineba, which I attended for the three days of

plenary sessions,

and

the y said he was

"all right" now and had been to the

airport to see them off.

I vote and tolà him to arop you a line ara let

you know he was among the living.

I shall try to get hold of the lay 8 issue of the Satevepost since

would very much like

to know the info it contains.

ind as to kling Street,

the sooner we rouse

"the masses"

or whatever is the British "reasonable

facsinila" to route those boys, the better for the vorla.

Some Afro-merican

in: Accra saià - and it was repeated to me - that when Johnson spits,

Wilson

swims - and so what' con we say of the king Si, boys? Let me know how the

rally went vs. U.S. Dominican shenanigans.

• I also heard a lot more about my "CIA" business from what is usually

referred to as "an unimpeachable source" and it may not have a ining to do.

waün the ceal CIA at all. There are plenty of people here who feel.

that

anyone with brains is à threat to "their positions" - and when that "any

one" is a white inerican female Jew, iell. WHAT a target and

sist a charce to annihilate the Opposition?

But,

this

win

could. re-

same

"source" told

me to

"Keep my balance." "Dizzy. as

I an?'I felt like

asking; but Iccian't.&

11l of this is just back-handed tribute which shoula: swell my hat : ze, if

I vant to be objective about it, which I do...

WH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 4

---

## Page 5

This space also for correspondence

At the Winneba conference,

I had: one large ball.

I met and talked to

real people fron South and North Vietnam,

one of them bearing me a per-

sonal note of introduction from my friend in Hanoi, who couldn't come..

I spole to l'ano. from.

Indonesia and liked him very much; he new utt

30r Lionel

af course.

And THEN, Keeds,

I spoke to the representatives

from North Korea - and that is my News.

First they said my letters to

then (all criticising them for points I disagreed with, mina you - ti

noive of soine people's children!:) had been "very helpful" in their ork.

They said that I represented a new kind of relationshins between Koreans

anâ inericans:

"Is not for you, ve would think al

americans are bad,

at which I assured them I was NOt alone; just alone in expressing it

directly,

so far. And THEN they said I should visit their country, which

I said

I intended to do in 1967.

"Too far," they said.

"You should come

nowo" Yep.. ALL expenses paid.

How about that? I honestly don't de-

OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL

• ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED

AN AIR. LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

Sender's name and address

STEROWVI

LEY AIR MAM

AEROGRAMME

I 20 25

PO. Bor 3411

Kimasi, Thana

serve such an honor, but I hope. I can do some good out of it... und

I hope

to go right after the 0.4. U. meeting in September.

I vonder if the plare

(assuming I go by plane? stops in London - if you see what

I'm getting

at. you'a belter hurry that photo around so l'a mow you if the adop-

oves was a short one, wot?. Did you ever hear of such lucki

I'm raiting

Lionel, my friena in Hanoi and Ama Louise Strong to see

I cun fit.

i. got ashice

least see them at an airport enroite...ind another thirers; Nno knov's?.

letter from Robert F. Williams, whom I am

answering soor.

Meybe such a plane even stops at la Habana?

Hov about it, Richara?

Meantime,

keep me posted on your plans...it rowd be

marvelous if

you could get to Ghana (along with Grippa and

Andersson?) for

the O.A.U.

Sumnit.. •I should write at greater length,

but I've been away far tho

weeks anà my correspondence stoci piled. - vi!

So more next time and

write. soon.

Love to Saran.

Love, Hedee

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Dear

appose

yes,

it

was

to bed that we diarat 100k you un in Poris,

out Kiem

was the firat nerson I saw,

as Revolution owed me

moner,

and among other hairy stories, he gard that you and

wife had long since lett for london.

As the only other.

person I

saw who new you is Gaite T?, Oner of the inmisn

bool shon) who was not

sure whether you had left, it never

occured to me that

this, tor, miphü be a lie.

I will get to ser von in Alger this summer is the Pes-

tivn Committee has offered to may my way if I conduct for

them a syposium on jarat the Youth

restivnl.

I have other

plens.

ant

simosir I may conduct; tont will surnrise them.

New York

15

Uns hystericel ne rou left it.

The trial of

Walter more and the other victins of i very slick f.ß.I.- N.?

nolion frome onened "Jast week.

You Inew Walter as I rec.1,

and

Trol'

know that he was not noont to blow the statuesof

Tiberty's head off thourn the old bitch would certain.

petter if someone did..

Cher don't hare a cree really t

enly ão i not of rime.

Practicnllr threntine leedershin ois;

P.I.

is 2n on

come charge or other rancind

fron entrring the

country withot a valid masonort to criminal

an roht.

There

is nothing rosembling e lender or onsenization in Ranten since...

the C.I.A.

blor Malcon awar.

Othemi se

thines pre,

lare ther air.

comine ne roar.

am mitiner

ronir for

Pan thron cal conductine d drill monin

nuream at "at porn livin".

eroilne menor a theatre

schan? in

Frier colled the Black anis.

TATt

ma notionalirt.

torrther

it will he comethine rise.

chris toer,

ie so broire

too ther could not mire him so for earn arorg

trat he wanted from

Go thrt be ral? darle grants

Enre some

money from nutsion

Gera but that to chantant Cont

mit.

Te oê conse you dire to senô the tones anyway

I so mahon the other dog pedan'in moing to do pa me cei

to. into annot merilla variare. And that's about that.

see ron this sunmen.

Some d

Bont.,

CD. SPELMA

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

¿ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

this die is eased see: 1/2196

SP-3 BTJ/AHR 10/30/96

(370144)

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Directory for Plans JAr

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation Malcolm X - Carlos Moore and

Sandy Bethune. (Afro-American Unity Group in Paris)

Richiend

Gibson

1. Forwarded herewith as Attachment is a Xerox copy of a

photostat of a transcript of a telephone conversation between Carlos)

Moore (and his friend Sandy Bethune) and the late Malcolm X, which

took place 8 or 9 February 1965.

SUGAR obtained this transcript

on 4 June from the editor of the West Indian Gazette, (fnu) Manchanda.

SUGAR believes that Manchanda got the photostat from the Ghana High

Commission office in London.

He further believes that the Afro-

American unity group in Paris (among whom there is only one member

with U. S.

citizenship: the American Negro photographer,

John Taylor)

probably supplied the transcript to the Ghana Officials as a means of

building their credentials as a bona fide revolutionary organization,

perhaps one entitled to receive financial suppor

3052-

SUGAR gave the current (June 1965) addreS®LoffJarifican/Cuban

Carlos Moore as: c/o Pedro Filipe,

168 Rue Grenelle, Paris 7e, France.

SUGAR

said that Filipe is a Cuban national.

ALL FBI INSCRIZATION CONTAINED

HEREIRES U,

2013

JUL

DATECAS

BxSp8 MAC/GAT

CSCI-316702630-65

coloni conceded bet

tue in for Cata Countle

Attachment: IENCLOSTRE

6/24/15

3021

ORIGINAL, FILED

1S05

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded tram automal!.

downgrading anu

declassification

66 JUL14 1965

- NAT, INT. SUC.

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 7

---

## Page 8

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

KNMENT

Memorandum

17970

1.d.5

TO

Mr. D. J. Brennan,

FROM : Mr. So Jo

Papich

Tolson

Belmont.

Monr

De. ouch

Casper

Callahan

BENC

Conrad

re t

6/21/6

Gale

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEI

hosen

Sullivan

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT avel

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

Tele. Room

SECRET

holmes

SUBJECT: RICHARD GIBSON

IS - CUBA

Subject's past involvement with the Fair Play for

Committee is well known to the Bureau®

CIA advised

us that the Agency was utilizing Gibson as

Europe.

6/18/65, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, informed the Liaison Agent that in

the future information emanating from Gibson and

will be attributed to a source under the cryptonym sUGAR.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to

the attention of

the Nationalities Intelligence Section®

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

SJP: chs

(4)

Claarti radi by

Exone from GOS,

Dales! Declassilic

зрівно

SECRET

Declassity on

SIMACGAI

JFK

REC-71-

1| C

EX 109

105-123078=126

14 JUN 28 1965

5 c9K

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 8

---

## Page 9

OPIIONAL FORM NO

5010-106

MAT 1Y02

EDITION

GSA GEN.

ito. No. 21

UNITED STATES GO

Memorandum

NMENT

SECRE

REQ

ST 105l

TO

Mr. D. J. Brennan,

5/10/65

DATE:

FROM

Mr. S. J. Papic

Belmont

reLoach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale .

Hosen

sullivan

lavel .

Trotter.

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy

, SUBJECT

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA AND CHINA

2n134

DECRET

"SAt R

SIDE E

CLASSIER

ACTION

interai

Reference is made to memorandum dated 4/22/65,

Baumgardner to Mr. Sullivan.

Liaison was requested to obtain addi.

ional details concerning the nature and extent of CIA's current

relationship with the subject.

the following was furnished to the

Liaison Agent on 5/7/65, by Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA.

CIA will continue to operate subject as a source.

presently located in Europe and he may be traveling

Southeast Asia.

A CIA representative from Headquarters will be meet-

ing with Gibson in England in the very near future for the purpose of

preparing a working schedule for Gibson.

This will include leads

which will be levied on the subject.

Mrs. Roman pointed out that

in the event the Bureau desired that CIA question subject concerning

any matters, our leads to CIA should be transmitted as soon as possibl

Mrs. Roman made available the enclosed rough draft of infor-

mation volunteered to CIA by

the subject concerning various individuals,

some of whom may be of interest to the Bureau. (

ALL IRFORMATION CORTARED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

The abOvE InIormAtIOn

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. g

Enclosure

"ENCLOSURE ON BULKY RAMP"

1 - Mr

1

Watma11

- Liaison

1

- Mr.

1

Mr. Papich

SJP: chs

00255309

¡ (5)

chs

REMANS

-CURSET

8 incl

THER LETTIER Of

8/9/03

I LA; NY; P6,

Krupinsk

105=23023-125

In chant

16 JUN 7.0 1965

Sit:

Caine: an 10s

eugen a Salina

ritanted for distinction

819653477

B||0V

SECREd

HH 50953

• DocId: 32339275 Page 9

---

## Page 10

?.e

mom it to

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

SA GEN

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM

Mr. W. R. Wannall Rus

SUBJECT: RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUA

SECRET

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. DiE. Moore

DATE:

May Mr.

1965

Wannall

1 - Mr. Mullins

1 - Mr. Krupinsky

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt.

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

navel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

noimes

Gandy

This is to recommend that the

subject's name be retained

in the Security Index.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIS IS UNCLASSIFIEO EXCS

WHERE SHOWM OTHERWISE.

BACKGROUND:

y* Subject, a United States citizen, is included in the

Security Index based on past pro-Castro-Cuban sympathies

activities and his participation in Communist China propaganda

publications.

He was one of the founders of Fair Play for Cuba

Committee, was President of the New York Chapter and became

Acting National Executive Secretary in 1961.

In 1960 he was

forced to resign as Columbia Broadcasting System newsman for

publicly expressing himself as sympathetic to the Castro regime.

In 1961 he was accredited to the United Nations-äs correspondent

for a Cuban publication, "Revolucion."

• In September, 1962, he

went to Algeria where he remained until April, 1963.

He then went

-to Switzerland and Paris representing "Africa, Latin-America;

Asia Revolution," a publication reportedly financed by Communist

China and he remained with that organization until 1964 when he

became suspect as a Central Intelligence Agent by others affiliated

with that publication.

* He is now in London and is having financial

difficulties.

At his request, Gibson was interviewed by Bureau Agents

on August 16, 1962, during which he indicated he would assist the

Bureau or Central Intelligence Agency in return for money but not

because of allegiance to the United States

He stated he did not

particularly 'like the Bureaugrand interviewing Agents described him

as a weasel-like character, evasive, opportunistic with very little

105-93072

EJK : 1sg (7)

REG- 25.

RIN

BBUUNS

Declassin on Lu, ga

1965

GER SECES-

JUN 2.

1965

5 441

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan.

He stee

Re:

Richard Thomas Gibson

105-93072

SECRET

or no moral fiber at all.: Obviously, we turned down his

offer and advised Central Intelligence Agency who indicated

they did not plan to contact him.

That Agency on May 7, 1965,

advised that they are now operating the subject as a source.

He is now in Europe and may travel to Africa and Southeast

Asia on behalf of that Agency (S

OBSERVATIONS:

In view of subject's questionable character and

past activities, it is not believed that we should

• exonerate

him solely because he i5 operating as a Central Intelligence

Agency source Rather than be lulled into a false sense of

security, we will continue to be most circumspect with him

and continue to follow his activities until he proves beyond

any reasonable doubt that he is not dangerous to the internal

security of the United States in time of a national emergency

RECOMMENDATION:

Index.

That we retain the subjectys name in the Security

SECRET

=2-

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page

11

---

## Page 12

TO

SUBJECT:

Exams. "r

10/23/94

Classified by

Declassify 00s /

OPTIONAL FORM N. Y

5010-05-63

MAX 1.52 EDITION

GS.. JEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GL

RNMENT

Memorandum

130928

Director, FBI (105-93072)

DATE:

5/26/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Legat, London (100-2611) (P)

WHERE

SHOWN OTHERWISE.

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

el palas seman cas

PerciALeter 1-1x-8

a (s)

IS - CUBA

741-755

00:

NY

LECRET

RUSHING

Remylet 4/26/65.

T.D

On 5/19/65 ED WILT, CIA, London, advised that

CIA had recruited subject and he has been furnishing

considerable information which has been forwarded to

CIA Headquarters.

CIA, London, has requested that

their headquarters furnish to the Bureau all pertinent

TE

information and also to advise the Bureau of this re-

cruitment.

Summer of 1965. Plans to send subject to Algeria in the

the following information

ROUTING

ADITS

SL 10/2

which came from subject:

(S

ROBERT WILLIAMS,

an American Negro who

Cuba in about 1961, is currently in

is in contact with subject.

Subject recently

received

a letter

quested help in

terms of

from WILLIAMS in which WILLIAMS FEA

money and also

wider distribution for WILLIAMS' book.

WILLIAMS made reference to the CPUSA ('the GUS

HALL crowd"),

"they were still giving me a

UNRECORDED COP:

terrible time"

or words

to that effect.

WILLIAMS

considerable antipathy for the CPUSA and terminated

with a statement to the effect that the U.S.

be a safe or

fit place for anyone to live if

(CPUSA)

WILLIAMS expressed gratitude

such a take-over

i Mot unlikely,

CIA had no further identifyIng

93072-12

information on

that subject is continuing

with him and any

further information

received will be

furnishedthis office.

WILT pointed out: that the informa-

tion on WILLIAMS had

not been reported to his headquarters

and he was giving it to this

office for any action

Standon Is mable to deny nune on ties lean

Bureau

- Liaison

1 - London

(directio

SECRETS

2 JUN 2 1905

WB:

re willing

andy

NATET SEC.

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 12

---

## Page 13

TO

FRO

SUBJECT:

*OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

MAY 196;

_GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

*VERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

SAC, WFO (105-42103) (RUC)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS

-

Cuba

(00 :NY)

DATE:

5/24/65

thre

Re Legat, London letter to Bureau 3/29/65. U

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of a

forth results of a review

the files of the

Passport office,

United States Department of State,

IC THOMAS C. NORTON,

Jr. Also enclosed for the Bureau

are six copies and one negative of the photo appearing on

the subject's 1961 passport application.

New York Is one copy of the IlM inasmuch as New York is D0. 4

The enclosed LHM contains all the information

in the passport file since it was last reviewed by

office on 5/45/61.

which information was furnished by WFO

report dated 6/28/61, of SA JOHN L. SPURGERS, Jr.

The Fair Play for Cuba Committee,

which is

mentioned in the enclosed LHM is described

in the enclosed

appendix.

17 CHUN

Bureau (Enc.

16)

New York (105-42307 ants 1) (InFO (RM

CONTAINED

TCN : gma

(4) .

23

ENCL

URE

"ENCLOSURE ATTACHED!"

Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAO

ONI /OSI/ACSI

By routing slip for info.

Date 6-2-65

REC- 41

105-93072122

1 MAY 25 1965

NAI.

31965, 2.5. Saving: Band Repeatent, on die Pral Saving PRim

HH 50953

• DocId: 32339275 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Ur TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON XX D.C.

May 24, 1965

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

The files of the Passport Office, United States

Department of State, were reviewed on April 20,

1965,

by a

representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and

disclosed the following information:

ahar

on stay 24, 1961,

at London, England, Richard

Thomas Gibson renewed passport B131994 which was issued on

January 25, 1961,

20535

Mark's Place, New York,

New York.

He indicated that he

intended to continue residing abroad "indefinitely,

business - leaving UK January 25, 1964,"/

In the event of death or accident,

that his wife, Mrs. Joy Gibson, c/o Kaye, 3

Mansions, Finchley Road, London, N.W. 3,

Langland

was the person to

be notified.

On March 19, 1964,

Kenneth B. Keating,

States Senate,

letter to Frederick G. Dutton,

Assistant Secretary of State, which enclosed a newspaper

"The Christian Science Monitor" of March 5,

1964,

entitled "'Peking Base in Paris.". This article

describes the establishment of an English language edition

of a publication called "Revolution," committed to the

Chinese Communist point of view, and headed by Richard

Gibson. Senator Keating's letter stated,

in part,

Gibson was formerly Acting Executive Secretary

Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the United States.

further stated that Gibson appeared before the Senäte

Internal Security Subcommittee on April 25,

"and May 16,

1961, and consistently refused to answer any questions regarding

his communist affiliations.

Senator Keating mentioned the passport which was

ATI:

TOPORMATION CONTAINED

IRRER IS U

03 03145 508 MACGAT-

(JFK)

105-93072122

ENCLOSURE

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page

14

---

## Page 15

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

issued to Gibson on January 25, 1961, and stated that

"from the article it appears that this individual is now

using this passport to enable him to carry activities

against the United States through a Chinese Communist

network which reaches to various parts of the World.

would appreciate your comments as to whether such activities

contribute to United States foreign policy objectives and,

if not, what can be done to prevent such action by United

States citizens."

By undated letter, Mr. Dutton wrote Senator Keating

and stated, in part,

that "The present activities of Mr.

Gibson to which you

refer in your letter will be carefully

examined to determine if they are prejudicial to the

orderly conduct of United States relations within the meaning

of Section 51, 136 (b) of the Department's Passport

Regulations.

In order to take any passport action

regulations,

the activities must be of such a nature as to seri-

ously interferewith relations between the United States and

foreign governments and, under existing regulations,

fact must be established by evidence or witnesses at a

hearing in the Passport Office."

By letter of April 28, 1964, Mr. Dutton advised

Senator Keating that "The Department's passport regulations

provide,

in 22 C.F.R. 51. 136, for refusal of passport

facilities,

except for direct

United States,

to a-person whose activities would be

prejudicial to the orderly conduct of foreign relations

or otherwise prejudicial to the interests of the United

States.

If the newspaper clipping which you enclosed with

your letter accurately describes Mr. Gibson's present

activities in Paris,

those activities obviously are not

helpful to United States foreign policy objectives.

another question, however, whether they are so prejudicial

to the orderly conduct of

or the interests of the United States to justify the limitation

of passport facilities under Section 51. 136 of

Department's regulations.

On the basis of available

information, the Department has concluded they are not.

However, we are asking our Embassy at Paris for information

regarding Mr. Gibson's activities.

Any further information

- 2-

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page

15

---

## Page 16

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

we receive will,

of course, be carefully considered in the

light of the existing passport laws and regulations."

Robert E.

Lee, Acting Assistant Secretary For

Congressional Relations, sent a letter

to Senator Keating on

September 30,

1964, which stated, in part,

that "the

Supreme Court in the Flynn and Aptheker decisions rendered

moot the question of withdrawing Mr. Gibson's passport

because of alleged Communist activities.

the Flynn

and Aptheker cases concerned Section 6 of the

the Internal

Security Act of 1950 which (1) made it unlawful for any

member of a Communist organization to apply for a passport

or to use a passport, and (2) made it unlawful for any

officer or employee of the United States to issue a passport

to or to renew the passport of any individual

having reason to believe that such

individual is a member

of such organization.

The Supreme Court held that Section 6

was unconstitutional because it swept too widely and too

indiscriminately

across

the freedom to travel guaranteed

in the Fifth Amendment."

Sources utilized in the Appendix have furnished

reliable information

in the past.u

- 3

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page

16

---

## Page 17

* RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times"

newspaper contained a fullopage advertisement captioned

"What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee (FPCC. This advertisement announced

the formation of the FPCC in New York City

and declared the

FPCC intended to promulgate

"the truth about revolutionary

Cuba"' to neutralize the distorted American press. y

"The New York Times" edition of January 11,

reported that at a hearing conducted helore the united states

Senate Internal security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961,

DI: Charles A. Santos Buch identified himsell and Robert

Taber as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and

Taber obtained funds from the Cuban Governent which were

applied toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

EASTE

between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP)

elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby.

This source added that during the

past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership

of these and other organizations in

the

FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive

Order 10450.

On May 20,

1963,

a second source advised that

Vincent

"fed" Lee,

FPCC National Office Director,

was then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he

had no

intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any

other organization.

This source

stated that lee believed

that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic

relations between Cuba and the United States and should

support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution

without interference from other nations. Lee did

not

advocate supporting the Cuban revolution per se.

- 4 -

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 17

---

## Page 18

- NICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The November 23, 1963,

edition of "The New York

Times" reported that Senator Thomas J, Dodd of Connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the Castro network in the United States."

It is to be noted

thatSenator Dodd was a member of the senate Internal

Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on

the FPCC.

The December 27, 1963, edition of "The New York

World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-Castro

FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that its prime

activity during its lifetime had been sponsorship of pro

Castro street rallies and mass picket lines, and the

direction of an active propaganda mill highlighting illegal

travel-to Cuba campaigns. Its comparatively brief span of

life was attributed to mounting anti Castro American public

opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which disclosed

FPCC financing by Castro's United Nations Delegation, and

ultimately, the bad publicity which the FPCC received from

disclosure of activities on its behalf by suspected

presidential assassin Lee H. Oswald.

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned

second source advised that V. T, lee had recently remarked that t

the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to organize

another similar organization.

On April 13: 1964

a third

source advised that

there had not been any FPCC activity in many months and

that the FPCC had been dissolved.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FEI. It is tie, property of

the FBl and is baned to your agency:

it and its conteris are not to be

distributed cutside your agency.:

5.--

HW 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 18

---

## Page 19

061":

Israeloio

KUH 50953

DocId: 32339275

Page 19

---

## Page 20

#7+10

T.

NORTON

105-42103

Enc. for Bureau (7)

• Bufile 105-93072

WFOfile 105-42103

By letter dated

5/24/65

90146-10107

AT IN ARMATION CONTAINED On envelape

1 UNCLASSIFIED

D. S/2/23/95 BYSp8MACGAI

(JFK)

NN 50953 DocId:32339275

Page 20

---

## Page 21

TO

FROM Q

SUBJECT:

Festo

#OPTIONAL FORMINO. 10

MUll-1T0-US

N, MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GE

IRNMENT

Memoran.jum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

DATE: 4/26/65

LEGAT, LONDON (100-2611) (P)

RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

00: NY

Remylet 3/29/65.U

SECRET

On April 20, 1965, JOE LYNCH, CIA, London, furnished

highly sensitive information which was classified Secret,

regarding subject. This was as follows:(S

On April 2, 1965, "DICK" (the subject), called

PABLO at the Cuban Embassy, London.

PABLO said he had

given "DICK"s" telephone.

number to a woman who wanted to see

him.

PABLO had, however, given the wrong number.

The correct

number is PRImrose 8778.

The girl is going to stay in the

United Kingdom.

(NOTE: The girl is evidently FRANCES KELLEY

of the "Monthly Review" of New York, who

a few days ago

letter of introduction to PABLO from LEO HUBERMAN,

who she had

worked with in New York.) PABLO added that LEO' is now in

MexiCO:

PABLO has much news for

"DICK" and will call him later

the same day to arrange a meeting.

S

The above information is from

a highly sensitive

CIA, London.

100-8436.

It is requested that the Bureau identify KELLEY and

furnish any pertinent information.

REG 137 / 05-93072-

SARmACGAT SECRET

3

- Bureau BE DOW ILErY DIA

-

Liaison SectiF (sent direct)

2

- London

1 10o

pa ki ask

1742)

JU

3 21 61.02

CWB: ec

(6)

DO MAY Y

Copy to.

by routing slip for

(3 -

into

action

APR 29 1965

NAT!

1.

SEC,

HW 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 21

---

## Page 22

--E(NEV. T-22-60)

mistiedera Bureau of Investigatior

records Bran

• 19 6s

Name Searching Unit - Room

6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

627RB

Ext.

supervisor

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

I Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main 105,

, 158

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of -

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations.

subject ThamEd tell

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

R*.

• Prod.

Date

3

Searcher

Initials

NSI

FILE NUMBER

100-325461-321

Bui RAtNy

2) p

Em

SERIAL

ALL INVORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

BA12/21/98

*SOSMACGAE

JFK

HW 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 22

---

## Page 23

TO

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAT LYOZ EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

ar. Sullivan Wers

FuJ. Baumsardnor 15300

Tolson -

Belmont _

Mohi -

De Loach -

Casper —

Callahan -

Conrad —

Felt -

Gale

DATE: 4/22/65

Rosen

ALL INFORMATION CONTAWED

• Sullivan -

Tavel.

HEREIN IS UNCLASS FIED EXCEPT

Trotter -

Tele. Room

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

Holmes --

Gandy

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

SEGRET.

Nainall

On 4/14/65,

through liaison with Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA),

information was received that Richard Gibson is

currently "talking" with CIA officials in London.

It was indi-

cated Gibson had only within the past few weeks been in contact

with, CIA and that he is furnishing information relating to Chinese

It was not indicated whether Gibson was

being developed by CIA as a confidential source or a defector-

in-place. However, it should be noted that Gibson has recently

been subjected to suspicion by the left wing

(S)

As a matter of background, Gibson was a.

founder and

national official of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

In

September, 1962, he left the United States and thereafter he

ding

resided in Algeria,

Switzerland and France.

was a member of the Editorial Committee of

Until last year, he

"Revolution,

A... :

monthly Pro-Chinese propaganda magazine published in Paris.

Gibson

is 'included on the Security Index of the New

York Office.

ACTION 112

Classified by

ni. For information.

Main o! Coclassilic

105-93072

SECRET

REC- 26

serio

130

1a06

5160/78

105-93672-120

1 - Mr. Sullivan

-

Mr o

MT .

Baumgardner

Anderson

Mr o

Papich

Mr.

Mullins

-

Mr.

Ryan

25 APR 26-1965

12/23/94

Classified bye

Declassity

00:

SMACGAT

OADR

(JAK)

796%

Ansofan

G. Mookie

NH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 23

---

## Page 24

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GI ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI (105-93072)

clan: Legat, London

(100-2611) (P)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD GIBSOI

IS - CUBA

Juit

00: NY

DATE:

3/29/65

CONFIOENTL

Remy let 2/11/65. U

On 3/19/65 Detective Sgt. KIRK, Special Branch,

New Scotland Yard, London, advised that he is currently

conducting an investigation concerning GIBSON and that

a photograph of subject would be most helpful

•It is noted subject holds U.S. Passport No.

B-131994 and the Bureau is requested to have passport

photographs obtained and forwarded to this office. U

This case will be kept in a pending status

awaiting Bureau reply.

4

- Bureau

- Liaison

1 - London

ACM : vw

(5)

DenictromCes,

Cates Dachas

REC- 15.

3116/78

105-23022-119.

2 MAR 31 1965

CONFIDENTIAL

Copy to

W. F.O.

by routing slip for

• info

D action

by ESKIMN

re Handle lead at Poospart

Office promplle

EX-I03

BEC.D

2 1 07

UH SEE

6s

58 APR 7

1965

APPROF

ATE MA

TES

AND FIEL

OFFICES

ADVISED BY

SOUTING

SLIP (S)er ClassiFication

DATE

SpEr

HH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 24

---

## Page 25

TO

FROM.

SUBJECT:

Name

Aliases

F'D-122 (Rev. 4-17-63)

COPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (Bufile- 105-93072

DATE:

3/29/65

It is recommended that a Security

Index Card be prepared on the

above-captioned individual.

NEW YORK (105-42387)

Cards UTD i

RICHARD THOMAS

IS - CUBA

"GIBSON

Pards, Sent 06

4/6/65

(00: NEW YORK)

CLASSIELED

ALL INFOR

EZE SHOWN

UNAVAILABLE SECTION

EXCEPT

[X The Security Index Card on the

captioned individual should be

changed as follows (specify

change only):

1.8

031158

JAlien

89

*E 1 Independent Socialist League

Sex

- Male

X723737323

Native Born

Naturalized

Communist

Miscellaneous (specify)

Socialist Workers Party

OUT OF THE COUNTRY

Race

Tab for Detcom

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

CHIV

Business Address (show name of employing concern and address)

ASE INFORMATION CONTAINED

MERTEN ISUNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12.2394 BYSO& MAUG

Key facility Data

FK

Geographical Reference Number

Interested Agencies

Residence Address

Responsibility

125-93072-

Su Stockleigh Hall, Prince Albert Road

London, NW O, England

NOT RECORDED

Bureau

(RM)

1

MAR 31 1965

-New York

(REGISTERED MAIL

JEH/cme '

58 APR

7965

(3)

IRO=

SUBY

NH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 25

_ Female

SEC.

---

## Page 26

FD-366 (5-6-64)

UNI

AD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

March 29,1965

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

BUf1le 105-93072

NYfile

105-42387

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

Memorandum dated 1/6/64.

Referenced communication contained subject's residence and/or employment

address. A recent change has been determined and is being set forth below (change

only specified) :

Residence:

30 Stockleigh Hall, Prince Albert Roac

London NW 8, Englanc

Employment:

ATE INTORMATION CONTAINED

Tyler.

I action

info

by....

FD-122 DETACHED

105-93012-

NOT RECORDED

1

MAR 31 1965

58 APR 5

16 5 8 18h4,02

DOW INGERE DIN

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HW 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 26

---

## Page 27

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

S910-4E-1E

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

Ordo: X06NK, LONDON: (200-26123 48

DATE: 2/11/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPTI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

RICHARD GIBSON

IS - CUBA

00: NY"

RICHARD THOmAS. GiBSON

4=1.

pd

Remylet 1/18/65. U

On January 25, 1965,

under a Secret classification,

British Security Service, MI-5 furnished a Secret report

two copies of which are attached. MI-5 pointed out that

their information comes from a number of secret sources

and they request that it not be further disseminated.

A copy of the same information has been furnished to

CIA, London

ENCLOSURE

3 - Bureau

• (Encs. 2)

1 - Liaison Section (sent direct)

1 - London

REC 25105-93072-118

CWB :ec

(5)

cletter+

•to

10 FEB 15 1965

SEC.

tion

NA!.

ROFRIATE AGEN

TING

AND

69 FEB 2 5 1965

HN 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 27

DOW IMLENT DIA

BECAD

12231

Classied

SOIMACIAT

Declassify on:

DADR

(37K)

SECRETE

1 201

Clanstited by.

Exempitiom GOS,

RicE

3/76/18

---

## Page 28

JIH

50953 • DooId:32339275

Page 28

---

## Page 29

es Angeles as 13•5.

Ines Abort Road, Borates, B.B. 8.

AprIl, 1963 Ho node valloblo the folionins intomation about limele sa

part of a phlieity pepsign plasmod fer "Aprioan Ravelation" la the Mirot

half of 196330

1954-521

1955-338

99508

ares of te

how with the laglich tongungo serests of

"Agomeo Frunes Posese® in Pariag

rested by thn French anthoritles beosse ot

do wort for the Algerian Mintional Liberatao

wrents

* 49

304021602263123409

Parese outse Nasarana esployed by tho

Go BoSt lows an Men York until dinalened beesse

euried o G.VS. Pollowshis in Arrioes Stuater

at Coluntas Diversitys

be, 1962.

amarave Soaretary of the Tals flay fer Cuba"

mitco an the U.B.Au

20

In 1963, CIBSON Livod in lananne, where "Afrious hovolution" and

subserently the English odition of Revolution" nre printed, but ho paid

froquent vlaits to Devolution'o" Faris ortioo until the end of the your

"Revolutson" men bessed to Switcorlend and ho was refused pereiasion to

contrane to live there. De, then sotties ta Parle shero,

accortins to one

report, he and his wife lived In "quito a lumous Cat"- It would, norever,

Do vrons to inter fron tate that GIBiCh's noons enchlod his to endoy kign

living stendardo, as another sourco mabsequently reported that ho has not

padd ony rat for the Mat fron lay to Dotober, 1964.

As ton

boes as lagust, 1963, thore voro ninsuro ta Conuntat otrolen da

tenden can GiRsoN wes an herdenn agent and chas bo hod paovided initod

states Intelligenes with the noos-of cortein midentified, Unlted States

negroes in accordancs with o brlof roosived tron the moriems. Infortion

fron a well-pined soiron sussests that these runours may have originited.

on the jealoas roastiona of too persono, comesed with "rovelutten", obese

aspirations with the moliention vore out shore whom CINSON besino iditos

of the inglich edition. lovever, by mid 1966, Virses, the naitortel Dirater

•* "Movolutten", nes elaining that complaints shout CIBro'e actavitioo lod

boen roceived not only from landor. but aldo fron Quba, wertoon neges in

"on Tort and o raletivo of GIPSON'e ho vos vorsine for the sagustne "Spork"

In Chatro

An o mealty GIBSCh me digainsed fron tho oditorial staff of

"Revolntion", Charena nado ogatrat his inalude the folloutg

/ (0):

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/23/94 B S08 MAC BAT

(OFK)

1 50958 PoeTd: 32399275 /Rave 29 4a

---

## Page 30

SEORET

• 2-

(a) connette to 198 or pace no postaly o

(b)

infersing the malloution"s contauts in Chine that

"Povolution" we Oisintegrating:

(o)

moving "Nonsens" and the "Ver Tort ferale Tribune

At infomotion la an ettenye to disorodst Revelatson"

(a)

colons with tho &2.4

Although GIAN) ins denied tho shrgro nato sgniset bla, he restions that

they have sues con that l6 all do sove souro batoro ho «111 he decaptable

to any loft wine orintante

AGiBSON

In duly, 190% 03p50h went to the lotted Singie on 7th Vetober sod vas +

sotnod lator by Mio eltan ulto, Joy baronso, and hia tro childre

Ko

hoped to Pina vort in london, bar ob the end of Hovesher, ha ins atall

visore a joo no dependent so bio rito's tntly, no sre mylag the ret

of kin Mar ot 30, Stockelg Hall, Ilors Albort Rosd, Indon,

A. 200o

Nothing da roma nt preent about 91330%*s contaets in las United

Although dorins so tino he vorkes for "Revolution" ke ves 1n

41:$

ho s112) booms in tones vito the coloured couth afriesa Joansallet, lonal

R:100%, was to enployod bo the Chinese backed Arso-soden Jourallate"

St

*Arontains douralled", no. di detod

July, 19an, on miland by as hatedo,

osataina.os uticle "To Revolationary

oculation" and "Fpark

HH

59953.

DooId: 32339275 Page 30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

•CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

14 JAM: 1965

TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

Annell

FROM

Deputy Director for Plans Vi

SUBJECT: GIBSON, Richara-105-85071

1. A usually reliable source had reported the following

summary of his conversation in London in late December 1964 with

Richard GIBSON, a free-lance writer, former Chairman of the Fair

Play for Cuba Committee and former editor of the English 'edition

of Révolution. GIBSON, a very light-skinned American negro

married to an Englishwoman, was working in the Columbia Broadeast-

ing System (CBS) newsroom when along with another colleagüe, Robert..

Yoder, he established the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the early

1960's. GIBSON was in Cuba several times in 1961 and had met Fidel

Castro Ruz and Ernesto Guevara Serna, and various other Cuban

officials.

NEW

for

Copy to,

by rooting nip

El ins

2. Richard GIBSON stated that he knew quite well Robert

Williams, the American Negro from Monroe, North Carolina, who ha

emigrated to Cuba and now seems to commute between there and Peiping,

China.

tire

3. According to GIBSON, he felt that the situation among Amel

negroes (from what he could tell in Europe) was becoming. very

dangerous.: He said

that he had met in both London and Paris quite

few young American negroes in their late teens passing through en

route to Prague, Czechoslovakia or Habana, Cuba for guerrilla andf

sabotage training. He further said he had the feeling that within

into the United States in pursuance of Williams' idea of an urban

guerrilla movement.

ar

CONTAINED! XEROX

JFK

ALL FBI INFORMATION

SIFIED

HEREIN

DATE /2/23

69 FEB

Cuban Connettee, GIBSON

lated that he was recommended by thellA gerian Ambassador to the

United Nations (name not given) to

105

staff of Révolution

930

REC 18.

70.

re

SCI- 316/00038-65-

sent at

JAM 29 1965

$3.072

1965p

SECRET

MORGUP

Exclaced frori automatic

agenerating and

rectassification

NW 50953

Do01d:32339275

Page 31

105 i.

Varburg

---

## Page 32

SECRET

+ - 531

- 2 -

africaine in Algiers, which was

then edited by Jacques Verges.

When

the Algerians removed Verges, GIBSON stated that he followed

Verges to Paris where the latter set up Revolution. According to

GIBSON, he served as editor of its English-language version first

in Paris and then in Lausanne, Switzerland, until a few months ago,

when he split with Verges, who still owes him money and whom he is

suing. Verges himself loved French high society, good food and lux-

urious living and spent most of his time in political agitation. The

magazine was in fact largely edited by a Vietnamese on its staff who

often wrote under other pseudonyms. The sale of the magazine was

actually quite small.

The Chinese bought about 3,000 copies of each

Issue but recently as many as 15,000 copies of each issue were piling

up unsold in a garret in Paris. Andersen in Lausanne

a paid Chinese agent but he was on bad terms with vergeras decinitely

5. Source indicated that GIBSON seemed to be a very relaxed and.

quite humorous negro intellectual. GIBSON said he had worked for

Révolution because of his interests in African and Asian independence

movements - had never considered himself a Communist and did not now.

Revolution, according to GIBSON, had many personal contacts with Irot-

skyites and their was certainly considerable Trotskyite influence in it.

•1.

Headquarters Comment: Source is probably referring to Nils

Andersson of the La Cite publishing firm in Switzerland, which

printed the Révolution before it was banned in that country. He,

has a continuing interest in Centre Lenine, a propaganda organ

reportedly sponsored by the Chinese Communists:

CSCI-316/00038-65

Distribution:

vOrig. & 1 - Addressee

1. - Department of State

SECRET

HH 50953

DocId:32339275 Page 32

---

## Page 33

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO,

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

DATE: 1/18/65

LEGAT, LONDON (100-2611) (P)

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPTI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

RICHARD GIBSON

IS - CUBA

00: NEW YORK

SECRET

ReBulet to Director, Central Intelligence Agency,

December 1, 1964. U

The CIA Office in London has advised that they are

instituting investigation by British Security Service, MI-5

on subject.

from

MI-5 will be furnished to this office.

CIA referred to information

sent a they a ted fenced

letter indicating subject was a CIA agent.

They asked if

this office had any additional data on that particular point.

They were informed that we did not have.

If the Bureau is

Not aware of further information regarding this, it is believed

it would be helpful and of interest to CIA, London

We are following this matter here and

will keep

the Bureau advised.

1 Copy 8o.

New).

JoRK

ate 1-28-65

3

PROTRIATE AGENC

3 - Bureau

1 - Liaison Section (sent direct)

1 - London

CWB: ec

(5)

STING

lass; rivation

тро

IS MAL

LOLD OFFTO

AND 7707

ADVISED

SLIP (S)

DATE

108 JAN 2 9 1965

stad by

Brempercom Gos, Cot

SECRETA

20231

classied by

SALMAC/GAT

Declassify on:

DADR

(JFK)

730022

14 JAN 28

NN 50953

DooId: 32339275

Page 33

---

## Page 34

FD-122 (Rev. 4-17-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-100

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI (Bufile - 105-93072

DATE:

FRON

SAC,

NEW YORK (105-42387)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBAN

(00: NEW YORK)

It is recommended that a Security

Index Card be prepared on the

above-captioned individual.

Name

LON CONTA

CLASSIFIOO

ALL INFORMA

HEREIN IS

TURE SHOWN

EXCEPT

OTHERWI

Aliases

HOTOSURE DEZACHED

SEZARATERY

8

Native Born

7 Naturalized

Communist

Socialist Workers Party

OUT OF THE COUNTRY

Miscellaneous (specify)

Race

Tab for Detcom

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

Business Address (show name of employing concern and address)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

OREIN 1S UNCLASS 1118

ATEIN 2344

"ISps nACSAT

Key Facility Data

(57K)

Geographical Reference Number

Interested Agencies

Residence Address

1/6/65

Cards UTD

413

Cards Seat 00

Ther

65

UNAVAILABLE SECTION

X]. The Security, Index Card on the

•captioned individual should be

-changed as follows (specify

_change only)."

CO

15

WM

7 Alien

7 Independent Socialist League

Sex

Male

_ Female

105-93072-

NOT RECORDED

I4 JAN 11 1965

_ Responsibility

/O Alrea Herr MarK delIrie.

Basinghall

street, 1g# dgp B.C. 2, Englan

2-Bureau (RM)

Yew Cho

DUAN

JEH/ стс

REGISTERED MAIL

(3)

VECIO

* NAT.

HW 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 34

---

## Page 35

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

FROM

1724

SUBJECT:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387) (0)

DATE:

1/15/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT,

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON aka

IS - CUBA

IS - CH

CONFIDENTIAL

BIC

cissuered by

Exarzo: from GOS

Re report of SA ROGER H. LEE,

1/31/64,

at NY

and Legat Paris letter to Bureau, 12/8/64,

with

enclosed LHM.'

Referenced Legat Paris letter, 12/8/64,

indicates that Issue 10-11, July-August, 1964 of

"Revolution, "

a monthly Chinese propaganda publication,

published in Paris, France, contains information to the

effect that GIBSON had been dismissed from his position

as a member of the Editorial Committees of "Revolution."

Referenced letter further indicates that members of the

American CP reportedly have forwardea documents to

"Revolution," establishing that GIBSON was working on

behalf of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

Referenced letter further reflects that GIBSON and his

wife are presently residing incare of ALFRED HENRI

MARK JEFFRIES, 9 BasinghalSt., London. E. C. 2, England.

A review of subject's case file reflects that

GIBSON has resided abroad since September, 1962. L

with some of the cuban activity in the NYC area,

contacted on the dates indicated and advised they could

furnish no information concerning any pro-cuban activity

on the part of the subject:

Bureau (RM)

- New York

JEH:mrk

(3)

12/2394

castill by Sos mACISAT

Declassity ons

OAD&

ĐOW 34

185-93072-115

JAN 18 1965

1.85

NAT.

IN

FEB 3

1965

NH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 35

---

## Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

NY 105-42387

Informants

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

NY 3164-S

3468-5

3467-5

NY

3367-S

CSNY

2623-s |(C)

OSNY 2022-S

1/11/65

1/6/65

/11/6

15/6

1/7/65

1/8/65

JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY

VINCENT J. WARGER:

C. DALE SCHWANT

MAURICE H. LAUZIERE

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

The following confidential informants, familiar

with' some of the Chinese Communist activities in the NYC

area, were contacted on the dates indicated and advised

that they did not know the subject. U

Informants

Date Contacted

Contagting Agent

.4858- BSI

NY 4629-BSI

1851 10-8557 (c)

CSNY 1075-S

1/11/65

1/12/65

1/12/65

1/12/65

1/12/65

JOHN E. MANNING

JOHN E. MANNING

CHARLES WEHRLE

CHARLES WEHRLE

CHARLES WEHRLE

CONFIDENTIAL

-

2

-

HH 50953

DocId: 32339275 Page 36

---

## Page 37

FD-305 (Rev. 9-19-62)

NY 105-42387

1.

2.

6.

CONHDENLIAN

162140

Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and

not available.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies

are

This

report is classified

because

(state reason

7.

Subject previously interviewed (dates)

9/20/61

Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason

subject has

been abroad since September, 1962.

8.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria

and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending

cancellation.of the Security Index card.

This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the

Security Index criteria and it continues to fall within

such criteria because (state reason)

until September, 1962, GIBSON was acting National Executive

Secretary of the

Fair

2962 4B

Play for Cuba Committee.

Unt t1 August,

1964, GIBSON

was a member of the Editorial Committee of

"Revolution," a monthly Chinese

propaganda publication,

published in Paris, France.

10. L subject's SI card

tabbing.

is

is not tabbed Detcom.

do not warrant Detcom

- 3 -

CONFIDENTIAL

00

HH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 37

---

## Page 38

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

'UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI (105-93072)

dul

FROM : Legat, Paris (105-1270) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

16

DATE:

12-8-64

BONMIDENTIAA

preparing

L INCORMATION CONTANEO

HENEN IS UNCLASSIFIED. EXCEPTI

WHERE SHOWA OTAZRAISE.

Re Paris letter 10-29-64.

Enclosed are 5 copies for the Bureau and 1 for

London of an LHM containing information received from the

Jrection de la survelliance du Territore (DSt)

FrenCh

omestic counterespionage service, (T-1), on 12-7-64.

It is noted that the subject was apparently dis

missed from his position

the magazine "Revolution"*s English language editor for

• a pro-Chinese Communist publication

for allegedly attempting to "penetrate" the international

revolutionary movement.

ALAIN MONTARRAS of the DST stated

that he was suspected by the publishers of this magazine

and other individuals with whom he worked of being a CIA

agent.

The DST gives his present residence as in care of

MARK JEFFRIES, 9 Basinghall Street, London E.C. 2,

England.

The

LHM is classified confidential since the

information contained therein was so classified by the

DST

The DST also furnished the information to CIA, Paris..

Classtiled by

Exempitrom

- Bureau (Enc.

(1 - Liaison

Section, enc.

/ co a NEw York wilt

1

- London (Enc.

se (sent direct)

by routias dip for

CoveR

20 13- 17-64

- Paris/2/23194

NWP :HD

(5)

classied ly Sp& MACISAT

K191

Declassity 00:

OADR

/ хеколас

Copy to; CIA/State/RAO; 754

XeRoXy routing slip for

ONI/OSI/ACSI& US THIA

Date 12-17 - 672by-

into. LLÄ Pepp

RECT 105-232782-114

3 DEG 14 1964

AFiDENTIAR

APPROEN

• AND FITT

ADVISED

SLIP

DATE

ANE AG

INCIES

CIES

ULIN

assiFicates

33B/mky

6DEC

DONASENHAL

HH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 38

---

## Page 39

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SONZDETAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAD

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

December 8, 1964

ALC INFORMATION CONTAMED

HEREIN IS UNCLASS SIER. EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

T-1, a confidential source abroad, furnished the

following

information on December 7, 1964:

THOMAS RICHARD GIBSON, born May 13, 1931, at

Los Angeles, California, resided at 28 avenue Simon Bolivar,

Paris 19.

He originally

entered France on December 15,

1954. After following studies at the University of Paris,

he became employed as a

translator by Agence France Presse

(French Press Agency).

He first came to the attention of French authorities

because of his relations with the "Chine Nouvelle" Agency

China Agency) of Paris and as a member of the Editorial

Committee of the monthly Chinese propaganda publication

Revolution".

The Director of this publication is JACQUES

MANSOUR VERGES, a former French national who recently acquired

besines

Algerian citizenship and who is well known for his Communist

activities and for his

present work in favor of the pro-

Chinese Communists.

Esampitrom

Dict

1/.2394

Clained Northe

Declassify On:

DADR.

T-1 advised

that it has received information

that unidentified Americans, members of the American Communist

OParty, reportedly forwarded

to VERGES certain documents

established that GIBSON was working on behalf of the

Central Intelligence Agency. GIBSON, who had gained the

confidence of VERGES because of his work on behalf of the

"Fair Play for Cuba Committee", was dismissed from his

position as a member of the Editorial Committee of "Revolution".

T-l furnished a statement which appeared in Issue 10-11

of

"Revolution" of July-August, 1964, which is as follows:

"Following serious

certain comrades in New York, London, and Accra,

accusations received forc

CONFIDENTIAN

This decument contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

GROUP

the DBI.

It is the property of

• automatic

ind

1017

the FBI and is leaned to your agency;

it and its contente are not to be

distribated outside your agency.

105-93072-114

ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 39

---

## Page 40

GUN BENTAL

"and confirmed by investigation, Revolution informs

its readers that Richard Gibson,

who abused his title

of former secretary of the 'Fair Play for Cuba Committee'

in order to attempt to penetrate the international

revolutionary movement, can no longer be counted among

the collaborators of the magazine.

The magazine cannot

accept responsibility for his activities."

I dylsed that eason departed ala tradence red

Paris, leaving his family there, and stating that he planned

to go to England for

several days.

The apartment which he

occupied has been seized because of non-payment of 5 months!

GIBSON and

his wife are presently residing in care of

one ALFRED HENRI MARK/JEFFRIES, 9 Basinghall Street, London .C. 2,

England.

- 2

-

CONADENTAN

devde..opa.t

1H 50953

DooId: 32339275

Page

40

---

## Page 41

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

COAL D

. UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF J.STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAD

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

December 8, 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

12/23|94

Declassity on:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

T-I, a confidential source abroad, furnished the

following

information on December 7, 1964: (C

THOMAS RICHARD GIBSON, born May 13,

1931,

Los Angeles, California, resided at 28 avenue Simon Bolivar,

Paris 19:

He originally entered France on December 15,

1954.

After following studies at the University of Paris,

he became employed as a translator by Agence France Presse

(French Press Agency).

He first came

the attention of French authorities

because of his relationg with the "Chine Nouvelle" Agency

(New China Agency) of Paris and as a member of the Editorial

Committee of

the monthly Chinese propaganda publication

"Revolution".

The Director of this publication is JACQuEs

MANSOUR VERGES, a former French national who recently acquired.

Algerian citizenship and who is well known for his Communist

activities and for his present work in favor of the pro-

Chinese Comunists:

T-1 advised

that it has received information

that unidentified Americans, members of the American Communist

Party, reportealy

forwarded

to VERGES certain documents

which

established that GIBSON was working on behalf of the

Central Intelligence Agency. GIBSON, who had gained the

confidence of VERGES because of his work on behalf of the

"Fair Play for Cuba Committee", was dismissed from his

position as a member of the Editorial Committee of "Revolution".

T-l furnished a statement which appeared in Issue 10-11

"Revolution" of July-August, 1964, which is as follows

"Following serious accusations received from

certain comrades in. New York, London, and Accra,

CADE

Ecclaod

(JFK

Joungrading

and

declassificatio

omatic

this document contains neither

zacosamendations nor conducions of

the FCI.

It is the propasty of

the FIrt and is joaned to your agencya

it and its contents are not to be

distributed cutsida your agency.

CONFIDENTIALI

HH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 41

---

## Page 42

BONDEN CALL

"and confirmed by investigation, Revolution informs

its readers that Richard Gibson,

of former secretary of the 'Fair Play for Cuba Committee'

in order to attempt to penetrate the international

revolutionary movement, can no longer be counted among

the collaborators of the magazine.

The maget

cannot

accept responsibility for his activitles."

T-1 advised that GIBSON departed his residence in

Paris, leaving bis family there, and stating that he planned

to go to tingland for several days.

The apartment which he

occupied has been seized because of non-payment of'5 months!

rent.

GIBSON and his wife are presently residing in care of

one ALFRED HENRI MARK JEFFRIES,

9 Basinghall Street, London E.f. 2,

England.

c)

-2

-43

CONRGENTIAM

00140.1010.5

HH 50953

DooId: 32339275 Page

42

---

## Page 43

SECRET

Liaison

E. H. Nossburg

1 = Mr. Anderson

BY LIAISON

: 15 MACLASP FIED EXCFAT

Macao Gird wolicted

Bones

Dato:

To:

ron:

Subject:

Decenber 1, 1964

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention; Deputy Director, Plane

John Edgar Hoover, Director

RICHARD THOMAS CIBSON

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

4-1jie

Reterence 15 nade

, to previous communications

concerning the subject,

last of which was the report of

Special Agent Roger A

dated, January 31, 1964, at

New York, New Yorks.

A confidential

source tho has furnished reliable

intornation in the past recently advised that in august,

1964, John Henrik Clarke, Associate Editor of "Treedomways"

magazine, contacted Julian Hayfield of "The African Review,"

rost virace: Box: 2052; Accra; Ghana, West Mrica.

"Treodonways," a self-described quarterly review of

the Negro freedon movement published by Freedomways Associates

Incorporated,

799 Broadway

New Yorl City, is a Communist Perty

on supported publication waich is known to your agency:

l 40 000:0012

41/3

suring this contact car? corenced that undoubtedly

Mayfield already knows that

LARA DEOD has been exposed

as a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agent. Clarke further

indicated that Gibson was the one who pointed the finger at

him and had the FBI breathing down his neck for over a year.

He also wondered whore this.

situation put Dan Watts as Gibson

and Watts were very close

a

COPY FILED

1 - New York (105-42387)

Tolson

NOTE FOR LEGATS, LONDON

Belmont

2:: London

AND PARIS PAGE TWO AND "THREE

Mohr

2:: Paris

DeLoach

Casper -

Callahan

Contad

Evans

131881528401890 done gap

3s0c10tes

Incorporated

Gale -

Rosen

1

105-96316 (Daniel Watts)

ay SOS MAC CAT

Sullivan

-1 - 97-4575*

(John Clarke)

BADR

Tavel

CROUP

LET DIA

JFK

Trotter

Tele. Room

Exclude

Felt Gift omat 10

Holmes -

Gandy

DA DECO

* NATO SONS JI

TELETYPE UNIT L

downgrading

and

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

(18

declassifica on

NW 50953

Do01d:32339275

Page 43

---

## Page 44

SECREE

Disector

Central Intolligence Agency

Your Agency has previously been furnished information

concorning Daniel Matte,

Chairman of the Liberation Committee

for Africa, an organization which bas been described in news-

papor articles as being nation-wide and ained at helping African

freedom fighters and promoting awarenese of a conmon heritage

for Afro-Americans and Africans.

Literature for the Liberation

Committeo for Africa shows that

Richard Gibson previously was

Executive Secrotary of that organization.

on detober a, 190, Information was receivod trou

out representative in Paris; trence,

• Indicating that your Pazis

Office haa no current interest in Glogon and has no plans to

establich contact with han(S

On November 6, 1954, our reprocentative in London,

an edstorial Job.

"Dick" reportedly spoke with an American

accent and had previously worked for "Revolucion," It appeare

"Dick" Giboon is probably identical with the subject

The above is being furnished for your information

and

any action deemed appropriato. Any additional information

recoived by your Agency concerning the whereabouts, and activities

of the subject would be approclatod

NOTE FOR LEGAT, LONDON:

Gibson is a male Negro.

He was born in los Angeles,

California,: 5-13-31.

He is 5'9" tall, weighs approximately,

150 pounds, and served in the U.S. Army from 12-52 to 12-54.

last known residence was in Paris, France, where he was employed as

an editor of the publication "Africa Latin America Asia Revolution."

Gibson is on the Security Inder, 00:v%, based on his past pro-

Castro-Cuban activitles. He was one of the founders of the Fair

Play for Cuba Conmittee (FPCC), was president of the New York

Chapter and became Acting National Executive Secretary of the

FPc in 1961. He was forced to resign as Columbia Broadcasting

System newsman in 1960 for publicly expressing himself as

sympathetic to the Castro regime.

In 1961, he was also accredited

NOTE FOR LEGAT,' LONDON

CONTINUED PAGE THREE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 44

---

## Page 45

• &

SECRET

Director,.

Central Intelligence Agency

NOTE FOR LEGAT, LONDON CONTINUED:

to the UN as a correspondent for the Cuban newspaper

"Revolucion."

In September,

1962, Gibson left the U.s.

and went to Algeria where he remained until April, 1905.

In April of 1963, he went to Switzerland and subsequently

moved to Paris, France. U

You should remain alert for any additional.

concerning. Gibson and Teep Bureau and interested offices

advised. C

NOTE FOR LEGAT, PARIS:

Attempt to ascertain current whereabouts of Gibson

and other interested offices appropriately advised. o

NOTE:

Information concerning subject's alleged exposure

as a ClA agent is being turnished ClA.

However, no information-

is avallable in Bufiles indicating subject has actually been

utilized or exposed as a CIA agent. CIA, however, has considered

utilization of subject in the past.

Legat, London, has also

requested information as to possible identity of "Dick" Gibson.

Classified "Secret" as information herein may

possibly relate to CIA activities abroad, the unauthorized

disclosure of which could possibly compromise CIA!s operations and be

detrimental to the internal security of the U.S.

SECRET

= 3

" WH 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 45

---

## Page 46

COME

SAC, New York (105-42387)

Director, FBI (105-93072)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

IS - CH

11/18/64

1

1

. = Glascock

• Ruchi

- Anderson

Cards UTD

Cards Sent 00

"/2c/49

EXCEPT

vane stati

Tale chase,

RewFDA 11/4/64, 4

A review of captioned matter reveals subject has

resided abroad siace Septenber.

1500, during thich time he

has not reportedly been tovolved in any pro-Cuban activities.

He has,

been employed as the English-language editor

of "onon hericanel and the "under latin serica sosa

Revolution,

" * publication which reportedly is financed by

the Chinese Comunist Goverment•

Subject has,

therefore,

been removed from the "Cuban Special Section" of the Security

Index (SI) and placed in the General Section tabbod & to

indicate both pro-Cuban and pro-chinese sympathies.

Amend

Si carde are being furnished to you under separate cover

(su)

In the future, reports summitted concerning

subject should utilize the dual charseter,

IS - CUBA,

IS - CHe

LiLA: ge1 gri

(6)

Coasti

Examp

Cora *

ion inde

DECLASSTET

(JFK

MAILEU H

1964

COMM-FBI

NTAN

REC 20

105-2-170

1*112

NOV 23 1964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

• Conrad

Evans

Gale

"Rosen

Sullivan

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy -

251964

MAIL ROOM

AWTELETYPE UNiT

CONFRONTIAN

saran of

HW 50953

DocId:32339275

Page 46

---

## Page 47

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

**- M.4"/ 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GUVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRET

DATE: November 6, 1964

ReaM: LEGAT, LONDON 205-970 ZEE WE SHORED

OHHERWISE

SUBJECT:

"DICK" GIBSON

IS - CUBA

ETCRET

poll

foot

Charte

On October 29,

1964, Mr.

furnished

source:

the

JOE LYNCH, CIA, London,

following information

from a highly

sensitive

Engl

on

October 9, 1964, at 10:55

A.M., subject called

PABLO of the cuban embassy

London s

telephone numbers of*

4915. 4.

He asked for the

two individuals,

one KENNETH TYNAN and let

Subject received the numbers from

Yone Truck o then told "PABLO" he was looking for a job on

Othe "editorial side" and would ask TYNAN for help.

"PABLO"

then told subject that he would have to tell TYNAN that

subject worked for

"Revolucion"', as it would be no good

telling half truthe

This delicate

source stated that subject spoke

with an American accent and appeared to be on a first-name

basis with "PABLO".

While London realizes this is sketchy

Tinformation, It 15

possible that the Bureau might be able to

identify subject

and

if so, London would appreciate receiving

Athis

• information.

SPEMACGAT JEN

REFERRAL DOCUMENT

Declassify on: OADN /0/3//

POI/PA # 250, 14/

APPEAL #

- Bureau

- Liaison

1 - London

IVILACT• #

1

Section (sent direct)

3.0. #12331

DATE 10/31/14 INCITAS Ip

CWB: ec

(5)

SECRET

5000N

43

105-

93072-111

Classtired by

empt from GOS, Category

APPRO

RIATE AGENCIES

AND FID

D 0FCS

ADVISIO

OUTING

SLIP (S

classification

DATE

1401

16 NOV 12 1964

BEDEC 8

1964

ZECHEL

SECRET

HH 50953 DocId:32339275 Page 47

---

