# 124-10221-10283

## Page 1

124-10221-10283

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER:

124-10221-10283

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR 185-789-735

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. BUE

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/10/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, AKA, ASSOC, INTV, DELGADO, ADRIANA, RES, REL, PASSPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

-RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH 50953

DocId: 32340890

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

SECR

F BÌ

AT::

AND

ADV:

Transmit the following inear

DATI

PROTES

Date:

12/10/76

• Via

AIRTEL

JG

LASS

- 23-83 Type in plaintext or code!

CLASS.

REASON -

FCIK 11.

(Precedence)

DATE OF REVIEW

12-16-N5

TO:

DIRECTOR (185-789)

DECLASSIFICAZION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONL

FROM:

OCHILBOM

"PFO - MURDER; EID

LEGAT, BUENOS AIRES (157-35) (P)IN ThIS DOCUMEN

EXCOpT tORR

педе Двіка

Claritid bes agenc

BILACKE IS

5m 6-25-97

8110/81

ReWFOrep SA L, CARTER

CORNICK, JR., 11/15/76; mycab7-31-97

12/6/76. (4)

This information is classified "Secret" inasmuch as

it contains CIA information so classified aU

Referenced BUE cab reported that ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,.

utilizing the PEDRO ANTONIO PENA identity, entered Chile from?

Peru on 12/3/74.

BEDRO AXUNAI

On 12/2/76,

the CIA Station, Santiago, Chile,

advise

that a story had been filed on 10/21/76, by Associated Press writer,

WILLIAM R. LONG, concerning an interview which he conducted with

BOSCH AVILA's Chilean mistress in santiago+

the Associated Press

Chile.

The text of

is as follows:

story as provided

#the/Santiago CIA station

DE-49

"REC-46

155-789-735

(S)

"Santiago,

Oct.

21 (AP)-ORLANDO BOSCH,

CAR

MEX

mm

the Cuban exile leader

inder arrest

in Venezuela,

Lived in Chile for a yor

beginning in December,

1974,

him

says a Chilean woman who claims to have known DEC 23 19?5

1/3/274

"She-confirmed information from a source outside

ICC em.4428

10 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

LeUST WTO

(1

- Legat,

Caracas) (174-8) 12/2a76

593/

(1 - Legat

Mexico City

• X185-9)%

(I - Miami) (185-76)

It New

York ) (185-576) SCHoo

(1 ~ San (Tuần)

LOONY

(2 - 5ro) (185-425)

336)

JEMNTICALLY DECLASSIALD ON PADET

2 - Buenos Aires

(1 - 105-1211) (Orlando Bosch Avila)

RWS : jn

(12)

Approved:(

Special Agent in Charge

57 JAN 281977

Declassify on

# 211,326

SECR

DADR 118/33

for perilease: +11 90-12 027-1735

HH 50953 DocId:32340890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BUE 157-35

SECRET

work activities in Chile that she knew of were

writing and painting. She said he told her he

was a physician

and owned a clinic in Miami,

Florida.

"His

son,

visited him

in Chile for

about 20_days

October 1975, she

said.

She said BOSCH left Chile for about five days

around the middle of last, year, but she did not

say where he went.

"Referring to BOSCH's reasons for being in

'He told me that he was here in Chile

talk about that.;

I understood that he didntwant to

"She said she did not know of any contacts other

than casual ones

that he might have had with Chileans,

'and

I prefer, not to know at this time.' (YU)

"She emphasized: 'He is a very correct person who

loves his fatherland

very much--that is his only defectud

"BOSCH was detained in Venezuela for questioning

about the explosion of a Cuban airliner that killed 73

persons two weeks ago. Feu

"The Washington Post said Thursday that he was expelled

from Costa Rica in May for using a false Chilean passport.

(k)

The CIA Station in Santiago advised that discreet inquiries

, who had. beer

advised that DELGADO had movëd

another location in Santiago believed to be Calle San Francisco

o had move

from the San 'Borja Towers address to

155.

Obviously DELGADO would have valuable information concerni

Cuban exile contacts who visited BOSCH in Santiago during the year

he resided in that city. When photographs of all known Cuban exile

members in the continental United States and Puerto Rico known to

have visitéd BOSCH in Chile are received by Legat, Buenos Aires,

arrangements will be made for an in depth interview with DELGADO

during which the photographs will be displayed in an effort to

elicit complete information

concerning these individuals and their

activities in Chile

- 3 -

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32340890 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BUE

157-35

The attention

the Bureau and interested offices is

invited to Section XXVI

of rewrorep, which contains a partial

text of a report dated 10/8/76 prepared by the Ad Hoc Working

Group on situations of human rights in Chile, United Nations

General Assembly. This report contained information concerning

DINA, which in some instances is obviously incorrect and based

on rumors and heresay. For example,

Page 296 of rerep indicates

that DINA Headquarters and office of DINA Director was located

on Marcoleta Street in

Santiago at the former offices of the

Chilean Communist

Youth.

As previously reported, DINA Headquarters

and the DINA Director's Office are located at 1l Calle Belgrado$

in santiago matt be

This fact is well known in Santiago and probably any taxi driver

in Santiago would be able to take a passenger to DINA Headquarters

on request. From the nature ofinformation contained in this

report, it appears that the Ad Hoc Working Group compiled information

volunteered by various Chilean dissidents concerning DINA operations

in Chile. Nonetheless, an extremely interesting piece of informa-

tion is contained on Page 300 of rerep, which identifies various

DINA premises in Santiago. One of the locations identified as a

DINA situs is listed

in Paragraph

(D) as an apartment in the san

Borja Housing Project.

As noted in the above Associated Press

dispatch, BOSCH AVILA resided with his Chilean mistress at the

San Borja Towers Housing Development. (v)

It would be extremely significant if it could

be established

with any degree of certainty that BOSCH's apartment, was

in fact

a location utilized by DINA.

Accordingly, it is suggested that WFO

or the New York Office give consideration

to ascertaining from

the Ad Hoc Committee Working Group whether the exact location of

the alleged DINA apartment in the San Borja Housing Project can be

identified and if possible the source, who identified the apartment

as a

DINA location be located and interviewed. (u)

It shouldbe noted that/ the CIA Station in Santiago advised

that

investigation disclosed the exact qddress of BOSCH AVILA and

his Chilean mistress's apartment as Building #1

Apartment #24g

Torres de San Borja, Alameda, Santiago, Chile.

ARMED

AND

DANGEROUS.

SECKET

ЧЕСЬЕЛ

HH 50953 DocId:32340890 Page 4

---

