424-10221-10229] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/11/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI /
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10221-10229

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —_105-72630-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, SJ
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/27/1958
*PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS :
PDL, ASSOC, PILOT, CASTRO, FIDEL, TRA, FLIGHT PLAN,
DESTINATION, RCK.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:  Redact

DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA :

COMMENTS: INC 6 S/S, MEMO

val 1
NW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 1


(Popes Rey: 12-13-56), -: ue : 4

pee hes oe

FBI

4 Date: safer I
‘ AIRTEL i

Transmit the following in

Via CIA HAS NOI GAN 10

(Type in plain text or code)

~ ; TO: mkt PoC é DECLALSRY ON: OR

; FROM: SAN JUAN (205-new) :
= SUBJECT: PEDRO LUIS“Brag ANZ; : 2, -/ :
RENALDO2BLANCO¢HERNANDEZ 3 P lt
" ALBERTO -BUSEBIE >MOTENA Gee~ aeaaaaay
: Is - CUBA—~ @.\ /— /
By communication marked "Sécret" dated rome
8/26/58S[DAVID R. McLEAN]] H & R Section, el

vised that they received the following. in- -

tion from a usually ‘reliable source. Information oy a

is prefaced with the following statement: "In view of
y the sensitive means through which we acquired it, it

is requested that the FBI no action which might ‘

compromise our source. "DX

Communication states that PEDRO LUIS DIAZ 4
LANZ, also known as PEDRO LUIS DIAZ, a Cuban born . iia
November 8, 1926 at Havana, 1s a.pilot, courier, and
possible agent for FIDEL CASTRO. DIAZ is reportedly
by i aeeee tarsal with REINALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ and ALBERTO
j EUSEBIO MOJENA who-*are Cubans and not further identified.
Jamaican police believe that these thre dividuals
\, operate from Ft, Lauderdale, Florida. TRAY)

DIAZ “passed through Palisades a
Kingston, Jamaica, on May 5, 1958. on July 17, 1958,
DIAZ arrived at the Palisades Airport, piloting a Cessna
\ aircraft, #M5213D with, BLANCO asa passengeny ‘The u

Special Agent in Charge

a SUCH a iu a

HW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 2
