# 124-10201-10417

## Page 1

124-10201-10417

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

_ Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10417

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-3752

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, NY

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/04/1963

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

• CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

WDP, ASSOC, ANTI-CASTRO ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B

Redact

03/24/1997

APPROVAL OF CIA

• ·9.1

NW 45905 DocId: 32289641 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Nasca

2/21/36 Sp8mR/GAT

Powered by SlATeR

10-4-63

75389,841

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASBIFICATION

NOTION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION HOS

Ners Fork

(205-3425)

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

-T-91 (JFK) SLD/KSK

AT INTORMATION CO GARNE

GASZE0

A07.7IrI5S

MERELA 60IC /G6171GD

OTHERNESE

Bellet 9-17-63.

Der 236

During the fast YoU weeks Bureau has Feae bed infortuoson

concerning onde -castro activities reportecly bosed in ilearague.

This information suggestse thet turn entles poseibly wore in the

process of erganising enother invaulon force, annuel Artime,

prominent Cuben entle,' reportedly ine been spending considerable

in Itcaragus allegedly argantainy ettles.

In vien of the informutim contained in retet une the

increasing role of Nicaragus in enut-Castro costuttles.

was had with CIA concerning these natters on 9-25-03.

Fich reference do the necting of Lus eules aLlegedly

• Indetini

Catogery

nold in ten tone coty in dulle 1907. mencioned in solet. CIA

nursed that it hus no enjorasuion conderming h пеебиу по

ponted out and lillian salamelt hau usen stationed incaustralie

fot the past two jears.

CalduelInes in the U. S. for & J50 days

n chout che miocre oy nuguot, 1903, bun he hos not baes cuolued

in any cuben matters atace he assignment to lustralla,

mith reference to Micarayues

involved in any intelligence operation ulth luts Somozas forner

Classifiest

Exempt fror.

President of Mlocrogue.

Ol emphastacd that it was not erganizing

a Cuban inuasion force in any country CIA Endicated with regard

to samaza the dua had recedded nunerous reppres and fundra concerta

ing sonoze! notivitias and his alieged comaction with the U.s.

Government. CIl stuised that for ceveral monthe Somena has been

championing o plan allogedly destined by hit, wnich hes as ite

objectèna to overenron the Castro coveramenta

The plan essenttally

consisto of truming Outon eatles in Alocrogus an uoulê tvolve

collaboration with other tentral Anericon countries including

Telom

nocorting to bud, the tennedy doministrusion: ius

dolmans

Matt

roulened onis pen and has discoprosed it Nevercheless sonuad

Cacros

_Tas not. hesitated to use

Collabes

coxcod.

the nome of the the s. in hie numeroug

Dalocat

Evento

Tain (107-6225,3

MAILED M

7211,326

Galo

TSP0 (105-29995)

?

Classier 380 Gel

Rooon

OCT 4-19681

Wec25807

on 42/34:

Sell rea

Tarol:

per (90-16t

¡Trattor.

109-550 (Sombza)

COMM-FEI

109-430

362s07195-85140 (Artimey

Tole. Roos -1?

Holas -

62-79985

rauley)

VEN: Lablai

¿ UNAR ÑOO

TELELYPEIUNIT L

(10)

SECRET

pn'

UNRECORDED

NW 45905

DocId:32289641

Page 2

---

