# 124-10279-10071

## Page 1

124-10279-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/16/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10279-10071

HQ

CR 109-12-223-837

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/17/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CC, ALLEGED CUBAN PLAN, ASSA, PRESIDENT, PANAMA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/18/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

NH 50953. DocId: DocId:32301736

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LAVAMADIOS CUNDAENDE

ADAGOD : S UNCLARSIFIED

BLUES I RARE SHOWN

ORNERALSE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UP-ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Orleans, Louisiana

March 17, -1964

ISTICE

SEC

ALLEGED

UBAN PLAN TO

ASSASSINA

PRESIDENT OF

"PANAMA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS LOQUENT: GMB 7Hs4

AS SANTIZED

At 4:55 PM, March 17, 1964, Orlando Pledra,

formerly connected

with Federal Police in Cuba and

presently residing New Orleans, Louisiana, advised

that about one week ago he received information from

a source in Cuba whom he considers reliable that castro

is not satisfied with the way things are going in Panama

and for that reason plans to have the President of Panama

assassinated to create additional uprisings in that

country. Piedra advised that he furnished the above

information by letter to Cobonel Bolivar Ballarino,

Chief of the National Guard of Panama-whom he has known

for years. Pledra declines to identify the source and

has no additional information to report.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not.

to be distributed outside your agency.

This will confirm information grally furnisnea

Mr. J. Jo Kelly, State Department, and|

Central Intelligence Agency on March 17, 1904, by

A. J. Decker of this Bureaulo

This will also confirm data

furnished orally to Colonel Graham E. Schmid, Department

of the Army; Major William Boyd, Department of the

Azr force; and ur. Don Gornan,

Department of the Navy,

on March 19, 1964, by G. A. Day of this Bureau.

ROBERTO FXCHIARI

PRESIDENT OF PANAMA

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED *311,376

DATE 3/5/86

-BY SPARTAGEL

SpS tae/nde 4.14-94 (JFK)

1/1194

Classified by SPSmic GeL

Declassify on DADF JFK

22129

SECREU

NW 50953 DocId:32301736 Page 2

---

