'/124-10365-10006] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10365-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 65-68530-99

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE 03/26/1964
“PAGES: 7

SUBIECTS :
NOSENKO RE OSWALD
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION ; Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO, INC MEMO, ASSESSMENT

v9.1 2
HW 50953 DocId:32318811 Page 1



oyu
Foon

wa
ye

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGE!
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

ot
[MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John Edgar Hoover
Director, Federal Bureau
of Investigation
United States Department of Justice.

auf ssuiv

CSCI-3/780,604,“dtd 19:-Mar 64
Bureau File . (S) 65 ~68530.

~th is a copy of a report ‘on
the Chief, Soviet | Russia’

Plans. It is an “in house" document containing an
terim assessment of SAMMY's bona fides ang_ma not.be
ted 7 other departments. without permission

The téport is” loaned-to-your’ Burea

26
the report discusses SAMMY's motivation, his pro:
to. date, his behavior, and certain other casés whi
appear to relate in some way to the SAMMY cases’. T

concludes that SAMMY.is..a KGB plant, discus
sib 4e-KGb aims in Sl an operation, and rétommeéends:
z 7

ve thé “casey

noted the need for an.early evaluation by. yo
Asthe..information reported by SAMMY on—Aiir
his” éva 1K

wi rly’,
to your ° Bureau a. copy of the SR Division
on ee bona fides, we are intere i
sogn asp
|| described

4, In considering how best y
Agency can proceed in further exa
it is probable that normal
information.will
which no paralle exists insofar as
proper resolution suggests the, need’

‘ x; Pp GLASSFED PER Amn

igo

lerren. of



Law 50953 Doclda:32318811 Page 3

(AAS® SECRET

TAB "E"

PERSONAL DATA, CONDUCT AND MANNER

Statements about Himself

1. Biography: NQSENKO has contradicted himself in his own
accounts of his Ti in ways which be relate O° e events
d_-persorabities ‘is reporting” ecially noteworthy is

pnis shirt of -tatest it said“that he graduated from the
Instittte of Foréign Relations in 1950, went into the Naval GRU,
and then entered the KGB at the beginning of 1953. In 1964, he
said he had graduated in 1949 and entered the KGB in early 1952.

This affects his version of getting into the KGB with KOBULOV's
help as KOBULOV was not in the KGB from 1948 to March 1953.

2, Friendship with GUK and CHURANOV: NOSENKO claims to be
an intimate friend of certain KGB officers, especially GUK and
CHURANOV, from whom he has obtained by word of mouth most of the
few operational items he has been able to provide outside his own
immediate sphere of activity. He mentions these two individuals
so often that that alone would deserve special attention. - Bit on
top of that these two individuals were, two of GOLITSYN's closest
contacts, from whom GOLITSYN also learned by word of mouth about

many operations -- sensitive ones at that -~ which he had no
right know. Yet, if NOSENKO were in fact this cld8é to then,
here havi own ENKO

better, As it is, GOLITSYN remembers only that there was a.
NOSENKO working in the American Department of the Second.Chief
Directorate who had a_reputati a Skirt xr, | There are
grounds here for suSpicion that GUK and CHURANOV gave honest
accounts of what they had told GOLITSYN in the KGB damage
assessment of GOLITSYN's defection, and that NOSENKO is fabri-
cating this alleged friendship to explain how he had access to
the same information as GOLITSYN (some of which is outlined? in Rn
Tab "D", Table #4), which he is using ~- at no cost to the:KGB —
as build-up for himself. :

3. Personal Involvement in Key Accidents: NOSENKO,' when -he
came out in 1964, had certain information which he particularly
wanted to give us concerning practically all of the known ba
notorious incidents of Soviet security history in the period . |
Since his last meetings with us. It appears to stretch coincidence |}

ROUP I :
om automatic

TAP SECRET Excluded



o~
a

O

 &£ ve SECRET

2.

to the limit that this one KGB officer, NOSENKO, was personally
involved in every one of them, and could thus talk -- and deliver
the KGB's "message" -- with complete authority. Note his role
in the cases of Lee Harvey OSWALD, of Professor BARGHOORN, of
(Of Bernard KOTEN,] of the CHEREPANOV affair (even to the point of
howing a travel order for his use in the "search" for CHEREPANOV) .

and others. Note also his fortuitous friendship with Georgiy

, BOLSHAKOV, which permitted him to recount in detail a provocative
\version of BOLSHAKOV's dealings with the White House.

4. Order of Lenin and/or casd Award: NOSENKO mentioned in
January 1964 that he had received the Order of Lenin "shortly
after the 1962 meetings with us," as a result of ideas he
developed on how to-enlarge the experience and improve the
quality of staff personnel on the job. About a month later he
mentioned to one of his security guards that he had received a 2
large cash award (no date, but was then reluctant to say why; it l
is not clear whether this is Separate from the medal mentioned
earl ier). Now, such medals and awards are not given for routine

contributions, However, it is possible that NOSENKO could not
re ¢ bragging about his medal (or féared~ that “we might hear of ies
it through other sources), and that he actually got it for his H
1962.meetings with_us == as_t the timing would suggest. In fact, |
on one “OSCaSION he pointedly asked whether hiS"1962" tise officer
had received an award from the 1962 meetings with him. And the i- i
cash award may have been related to a report from ‘another source,
that some officers of the American Department of the Second Chief
Directorate had gotten cash awards for the recruitment of one or '
more Americans in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow around 1960 -- when
NOSENKO was in that Department.

|

|

5. Claim to have Worked in Place for Us: NOSENKO has |

repeatedly Said that he tried earnestl y,.t0.colect..every, bit ‘of |

information. he..could for us durning--the-period] between the 1962 i
hi

Yet he clearly, did not try to collect even the most insignificant
item_of positive interbigence,political or military, from his | S
many contacts, nor did he even. bring outa clear able—of
Organization for the First Chief Directorate, which could be had
for the asking by a person in his position. The nearly 200 :
operational leads he so earnestly collected do not, insofar as’
our traces to date permit us to judge, contain the >_identity ofa
Sings active agent with any current access,.toU. S.or Or NA NATO

Vy classifted~intormations i a t
( | haere i
i
6. Shift of Job Before Contact With Us: NOSENKO claimed to H

y have transferred from the American Department to the Tourist

je SECRET ; |

weetings 99S sci Gol S ABN
many of them on small Scraps of paper, to document this claim. I

| aw 50953 Doclda:32318811 Page 4


ad om

C .
yf SECRET :

3.

Department in January 1962. According to knowledgeable sources,

ty a provocation agent about to be put into contact with hostile ad’

‘ intelligence would usually be removed from his job, particulariy
if it was a relatively sensitive one, at least six months before
being sent out. This iS the exact pattern in NOSENKO's biography:
he left (at least ostensibly) the section working against the
American Embassy just a month after GOLITSYN's defection (and
about the time planning for a provocation would have begun) and
moved to the Tourist Department, whose targets and methods are
less sensitive, more transitory ~- and more numerous -- and whose
basic techniques had been well known to GOLITSYN, partly through
a detailed document GOLITSYN was known to have taken with him
from the Helsinki Residency. It is possible that NOSENKO did
not in fact move from the First.Department as early as he claims.

7.° Sourcing of Information: NOSENKO has provided information
(1), from his own immediate vantage point in the Tourist Department,
and (2), which he has learned through other means. In the first
category we learned interesting details on methods and organization
although their essence was already known from GOLITSYN; and a
mass of names and identifying data on agents and agent candidates
which he claims to be the totality of his Department's successes
and which turn out to be practically worthless to us or the KGB,
His own position, however, has enabled..NOSENKO to play a role in
some more notorious events: the OSWALD case, the OTEN] case, th
BARGHOORN case, etc., which are of interest. But Much of
NOSENKO's more interesting information came from outside his
immediate periphery. His accounts of how he got these other
items provide an interesting aspect of the bona fides problem.

8. As will be touched on again in this paper, NOSENKO has

infgumasionwhieh-he.ha: has volunteered, often out of context, 2
to get over to wu QO. US

hrough=questioning..A ‘ide fron" i}

i >
BARGHO an owever, practically every one of these,.was
outst jrmal Access, and” was” obtained” 1 f£0FtuiLously._. “or
BOugh—conversat, with other case officers.=-This=way of

getting information normal and e ‘expectable, What_is unusual .
about_NOSENKO.'s_ case is that his explanations ar are in every sv such.
(beers either vague, coniused Gr unbelievable and and he quickly

becomes irritated and defensive when questioned in detail on

urees. Almost every item that NOSENKO volunteered” Hasan :
Limp. ausible source. A few examples are given in the paragraphs
elow.

iy SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32318811 Page 5
