(124-10212-10259

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/4/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10212-10259

HQ ,

100-339235-389

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBIECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
-DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
NW 45785

DocId: 32293983 Page 1-

Document Information

FBI
LEG, OT
DIRECTOR, FBL

12/28/1971
3

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

09/21/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF C14

INC LTR, ATTACHMENT

27


OTT-4 (Rev. 1222-65)

Date: 12/28/71

To: Director, FBI (Bufile : 100-339235 )

Cy b Anention = -———PaFing NO OBJECTION TO
W ‘ Legal Attache, Ottawa .

(| 105-2499 DEC)ASSIS‘CATION ae
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMAT!
Title : @ Character We WS DUCUEERT, Exe
SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK S-CH Baanens sm WA)
Reference K Welfags St.
ottawa leter, 9/29/71, > NT 4

Enclosed are the following communications received from the|RCMP:

Original and two copies[RCuP letter, 12/3/71, with attachment.

Remarks:
fir. Cleveland C, Cram is the CIA representative infOt 216)
: if
Geet 02 a!
CLASSIFIED BY [€6e Sep/@ee_
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X @ a
Ll

7

4

Dissemination (Note Para 2)

[=I May be made as received
{J May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

[1 May not be made without further clearance with{RCME [&

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of encloses:
New York(100-43479)

Status with this office: : : Do not write in space below _ : ‘
Ee RUC Yo an dS L obs 314 3 3A

Pending r SPS oi exit,
uciasuRe;
Pureau (Encs.-6)

(aE an

NW 45785 DocId:32293983 Page 2

para | JAN A 1972



—S= on

\
cane : . }

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO.
BET ADDRESSED: \:
JUHE COMMISSIONER:
ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLIC!
OTTAWA 7, CANADA

PRIERE 0' ADDRESSER LES
LETTRES COMME suIT:

LE ComMIssAIRE
GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANS
OTTAWA 7, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GENERALE

your no, 1032499 : OTTAWA 7, CANADA
VOTRE N° x ‘
our no. _D_972=15+351 : December 3, 1971
- NOTRE NO
i SECRET
i
y Mr. Moss Lee Innes,
c/o U.8. Embassy,
Ottawa, Ontario,
Dear Mr. Innes:
: The attachment, a copy of which has been
forwarded to Mr. Cleveland C. CRAM, is further to our
oh gorreggpndence dated September 9, 1971 concerning
i Susan WARREN,
nnn :
2. The attachment is for the information of
your Agency only. It is not to be disseminated without
prior authority from the R.C.M.P., in which case the
R.C.M.P. is not to be named as the source,
Yours very truly,
ia ~~Pakent),
: : stant Commissioner
Lf . Deputy Director Genera
’ Security Service

ye 8985-54

ese Rr
“NW 45785 DocId:32293983 Page 3

an



SECRET

December 3, 1971

i - | OnMonday, July“12, r97iffio Yi-ching (New

ina News Agency) mentioned so a reliable source that ©

Wwe (YAO, Jen-liu (People's Republic of China Embassy, Ottawa)

4 er a suspected intelligence officer, requested the address
iN ;

u of Susan WARREN, :

SECRET

acct asta
NW 45785 Docld:32293983 Page 4

