124-10144-10472| t {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/16/20
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10144-10472

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 89-43-9277, 9278 .

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BA
TO: HQ
f TITLE:

DATE: — 08/02/1971
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
SEE FBI 62-109060-7023
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : INC A/T, LHM.

v9. 1
HW 50953 DocId:32162111 Page 1


y

_UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Pl Refer Baltinore, Maryland SECRET

August 2, 1971
89030

“CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO PRESIDENT JOH
DECLASSIFICATION AND/ORRE? ASSASSINATION oF : ht by

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION  EEZGERALD KENNEDY, DALIAS ,
IN THIS DOCUMENT, AS enleinatall

Ade

Declassity on: OABR TAK

Ss

> Hel
3) ! my, aware Resident "Agency of the Federal Bureau
of Tavestigation (FBS) and provides the following
information.

She wis an euployee of the Centra telligence
Agency |from October, 1959 until August, 1963 on

Zn 1961, she was @ssigned to the Central Intelli-
gohee Ageney in Paris, France.

fiass Robinson{ stated thet she had previously
supplied some of the following informmtion to the Central
iatelligence Agency in @ letter te the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency in March, 1971. She stated that she has
to date only received a short letter from the Central
Intelligence Agency, and that father bad received a
telephone call from & « Broun cerning her ietter.

_ She related that she believes %& the details of the
foliouing to be correct, and that she Rd voluntarily.
gontected a psychiatrist and had psychological testing
performed, which she stated had resulted in the psychiatrist _
advising her that she is normal. She continued and advised
that she is disgruntled with the way that the Central
Intelligence Agency has handled the information which she
provided, a@nd inginuated that she intended to contact
the newspapers in the near future with her information.

ALG INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

SECRET

THIS BOCUMENT CONTAINS NEITHER

OF THE FBI AND IS LOANED 10 YOUR AGENCY; IT [|
AND HTS CONIENTS ARE NOT TO BE isniey
QUTSIBE YOUR AGENCY,”

» YGES
CLASSI Aen BY
DECLASSIFY ON: 2

VAR Aaa

| 50953 Docld:32162111 Page 2


BA 89930

RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JonN
FETZCERALD

KENNEDY, DALIAG, TEXAS
November 22, 1963

[ites Gotsinsony teres that the following information
began coming beck,to her earlier this year, and credits her
f @ drug induced amnesia adninistered to

dep
er on oder o: ao. Intelligence Agency employse,

ving the week of March 21, 1961, after returning

Du

fisblonehs 5 cramer apparent peel pnt
fe Lay iriS)and possibly [fol
enployses i anne dels tomes i

plese in the peter peri certs ash Office logated on

the second floor of Avenue Gabrielle ris, France. She U_]
stated that she does not recall who Wis talking, but that
the conversation concerned the fact that the President was
not doing whet was good for the country; especielly about

> Vietnam, “and thet he hed to be done ausy with within the
next five years, She stated that following this remark,

: the group noticed that she had returned, ang the conversation
7 wes te ted. < ;

she ws given U. 8. Amy orders by [irs. Pic Ml

Dae: ~ personnel efficer, to tYive S Are Lied
icdieal Pacility in Paris for @ polic /innocula

She stated that upon arriving at the Medical Facility,

ahe was injected with some type of drug which the Medical

Technician, leter told her was a drug which would make

her forget everything.

S).

[iss nobineait nares that ahe now recalls that
the technic. told her that she would even forget getting
the shot, and that upon zeturning her pffice, she was
questioned about the injection by and she remembers
that. she told him that apparently she. received @ polio
“imaoculation, tut did not recall at that time receiving

*

HW 50953 DocId:32162111 Page 3



BA 89030

SECRET
RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT Jom
PEYZGERALD KEWADY, DALIAS, TEEAS

followl )
this, she telepnosically eontacted by |Barr, Be " au?
another employee of the Central Entellige: y :
France, and fold to come to hia apartment. fox srgency
typing. She steted that upon. 6: &xsiving at pert
wag wet by umn, Branem, dachSjiast name » but
beginning with “€"). These men m making sexusl advances
towards her, and she stated that she became extremely upset
and begged bo be @lloved to go home, She was told that she
ould not go home im her distraught condition and wae given
@ @laes of yveter and told to relax. She stated thet she
lost consecleusneas for approximately tea to fifteen eel

and when she awoke she found herself p hed withow apie Se
She stated that she was then raped by jpra ra aes te 5)
ape stated fet she told then that if

Tica fara Fal be inter Sppented at eos is ee,
ie Sppeared 2 a at aM

Sica raped She stated that lester that evening she

was taken to her apartne % and put inte her own bed.

‘2
Wites Robinscalveia that at a later date, exact
ine yoknowi she eanin overheard & be gg cor between
; Aphas meerning the fact that “Mr. Big” had
o knew of “the. plans” ‘should be

would be too many questions agked about her death in Prence.

Biss diss Robingon stated that Braham is now residing
4n Palle Church, Maryland; Lunn now oune teo art @illeries
ang @ real estate office in Heshington, —. C.3 and Lapham
as now residing in Bethesda, Maryland [S

C HW 50953 DocId:32162111 Page 4
