# 124-10205-10474

## Page 1

124-10205-10474

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10205-10474

HQ

105-106995-4TH NR 5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/16/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, ANTI-CASTRO

ORGANIZATION, ACA, PROPAGANDA, RADIO BROADCASTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

10953

DooId: 32290698

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

WD-36 (Rov. 12-13-50)

FBI

D: Toleon

Mr. Betra

Mr. Mini*

Mr.

Transmit the following in

Date:

5/6/9ECRET

15r. R

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

FER GA ETR

CLASSIFIEC

921, 32612

CONTAINE

ALL INFORMATION

HEREIN IS UNORASSIRIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

AIR TEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing). 1x12-2098

TO:

CLASSIFIED BY 568 SL0/K5R

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-89923)

SAC, MIAMI (62-3573) (P%)

[CIA OPERATIONS - MIAMI ARBA]@I(U)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XL

JFK Up on

Classified by s

290942

Declassity on: OADR 6/n/85J

1/21186 SPG. Bja/Tan 229,861 C

The 5/14/62 issue of "Revolucion", Cuban govt.-con-

trolled newspaper, reported the SV 28, a Cuban naval patrol

boat, while on patrol duty off north coast of Cuba (off the:

northeast coast of Santa Cruz del Norte, within territorial

waters of Cuba) was cowardly attacked at 11:30 P.M., 5/13/62

and attack resulted in death of 3 crew members. Five crew

members were wounded.

Article described attack as another demonstration

of criminal and cowardly acts made by workers of CIA and the

U.S. Govt.

On 5/16/62 MM-492-S, Cuban exile residing Miami

area, who is familiar with both pro- and anti-Castro activities,

and who has furnished reliable info in past, advised that

JUSTO CARRILLO HERNANDEZ, General Coordinator of Agrupacion

Montecristi, an anti-Castro organization, on evening of 5/15/62

personally visited office of United Press International,

Miami, accompanied by several of his members., CARRILLO stated

his group, "Montecristi"', was responsible for attack on the

Cuban navy patrol boat 5/13/62 off coast of Cuba. Stated it

was

not act of piracy, but act by patriotic Cubans to help rid

Cuba of CASTRO and communism.

Admitted two of his group were

Ca

wounded, but names withheld.

+93+10690674

3)-

Bureau (AM) (RM)

3

- Miami *

CIA HAS NO OBJÉCTION FO

1 - 134-44 Sub A

DECLAS

SIFICATION AND/OR

- 105-4719 Monteris HAADE A OROERTIEN 2E 06 DA

SIFICATION

ISON

101

• tenes i

Approv

special Agen

t'in Charge

Sent MKH

16-98

SECRET

NOT RECORDED

87 MAY 25 1962

E

NH 50953 DocId: 32290698 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 62-3573

2SEGRET

MM-492-S advised that on morning of 5/16/62 Cuban

govt.-controlled radio station "progreso", Havana, accused thê

U.S., President JOHN F. KENNEDY, and CIA of the outward at-

tack on the Cuban naval patrol boat and referred to admittance

of the act by CARRILLO. Broadcast said Cuban Govt. has proof

now that CARRILLO acted in service of CIA and the "Yankee

Imperialists" (U.S.) and that the boat was located on the

coast of Fla.

MM-492-S advised on 5/15/62 that RAUL CASTRO,

Minister of Defense of the Socialist Revolutionary Govt. of

Cuba, spoke on Cuban nation-wide radio broadcast from Cemetery

of Havana during evening 5/14/62 at funeral services for those

killed aboard the patrol boat on 5/13/62. He denounced the

U.S. and CIA for having provoked the incident which resulted

in death of 3 Cubans and wounding of 5, all members of the

Cuban Navy.

On 5/15/62, WILLIAM MacCLAIRE,

JIA, Covert, Miami,

confidentially advised this office that the attack on the

Cuban Naval patrol boat was made by a boat in which CIA has

operational interest. Stated the boat involved in the lid

cident was due to retum to Fla. on 5/16/62. MacCLAIRE

not possess specilc details concerning this matter.

Above is submitted for info of Bureau.

Chos

SECRET

Nt 70953

DocId: 32290698 Page 3

---

