i24-10326-10103 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

COMMENTS :

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
| TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information
FBI
124-10326-10103
HQ
62-99724-74

Document Information

FBI
BRENNAN
SULLIVAN

03/17/1965
1

BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

08/17/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA.

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32313175 Page 1


aa a)

‘oPHIONAL FORK WO. 10 s010-106

(7 Sut sate tere { : aoa peeve

‘O34 Gen, HO. WO. 27 E

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DeLoach
Casper

Callchan
Conted

BR

a O: Mr. Ws Ce sullivgn are, 3/17/65 Se
i IT a IsDp frst 7 me
From ; Mrs e J. Brennan, Jr “LASSIFY ON: 25%, Te “ Tele Room

suger: [BUREAU INFORMANT 100 ah @ GFK) DY a J

In 1954, a procedure was approved #hereby we could attri-
bute certain information received from Jam Angleton, CIA, under
the symbol "Bureau Informant 100."" THIS iHformatiow, for the most
nart._emanated _fram_a_Iiaican_ompangement which CIA maintained with
Jana from other sources under the

C) ‘Control -of Angleton. ‘Much of the information developed by Angleton

was not disseminated within CIA but he felt that the data should be
passed“on ‘to the Bureau. Allen Dulles gave him authorization to

handle.dissemination in this matter. We continue to receive informa-
ea)

tion of ‘value on a regular basis.

: VO Atos

=. By SAC Letter 54-27 dated 5/25/54, we informed the field
regarding Bureau Informant 100 and issued instructions that informa-
tion from this source be described under an appropriate T symbol and
characterization, Because of the passage of time and since some

mation, it is believed desirable to reiterate instructions to the ‘
field. .This should be done since the Informant has been developing »;

offices,have had rare occasion to receive Bureau Informant 100 het)

information in months regarding the travel of Us. S. citizens’/
€ Such travelers come from various parts of thé
ur oe 7 ; _
one Y SPL CRP

ACTION: i 7
aes :, ORDERS OTHERWISE ee
‘3 If approved, there is enclosed herewith a recommended SAC

letter. ae : CIA HAS NG O8JECTION To
oer bse ! “i 54 H
Enclosure — bite p a :

Belmont )
Mr, Sullivan
Mr. ‘Wannall
Mr, Branigan

R, We Smith
Mr, Baumgardner
Mr. Bland. 9°":

w
1
FF
°

F

BRE Ree

A O = : (
=o Mrs Papich 8) Plo AR 2a ross SS 3 OAL AB

40) hy ; a i

re
of SN me

ape

RC

is

Gandy,

7

oo

| NW 50953 DocId:32313175 Page 2

l

