# 124-90139-10121

## Page 1

124-90139-10121

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK. Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90139-10121

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

109-584-2950

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

10: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 10/16/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

WH 50953

DocId: 32337994

Page 1

---

## Page 2

RA

LIUNAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVE

Memorandum

SECRET

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

Evar

TO

г.:

R. O. L'AlliCE

DATE: October 16

GIÁ HAS NO OBJECTION TO

5/22/96

DECLAGORCATION ANDIOR;

TELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Papich

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ER COOT FOR BRACKETS

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SUBJECT

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

<P51-9

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

1961

Tavel

JEl Boney

Dosadoe

V.

On September 25,

1961, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

furnished the identities of Cuban exiles who were being used by

that Agency on various operations directed against the present

Calan, Gayer ment

Included on this list were the names

of Manuel del

1 and

Jullo Jane argudia.

We have since received infor-

matioh from our New Orleans Office

indicating that these two individ-

uals have been attempting to recruit Cuban students in the New Orleans

area.

recruitment allegedly is related to operations being

planned against the Castro government.

Caral and Argudia arlegedly

have made statements to the effect that they have the backing of the

U.S. Government. 54%

the Liaison Agent informed Robert

concerning the activities of these

technical violation of the impersonation statutes.

that the two Cubans definitely were not authorized to make such

representations

and he was immediately taking steps to make

cer

there would not be any reoccurrence of such activity.(g

tain

ACTION:

is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section and the General Investigative

Division.

iL INFORMATION CONTAINIO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Classified 5,

1

1

SJP: gP

(6)

Mr.' Rosen

-

Mr. Faulkner

- MT • Donahoe

- Liaison

- Mr. Papich

SEE REVER

SIDE FOR

CLASSTE LO

ACTION

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWA

OTHERWISE

Declassify on: DADR

REC- 40

109-584-2950

OCT 19 1961

Bk: 105

_COPIES MADE

DATE.

"RE PApich

FOR REVIEW AT

TO HSCA

QUEST DAILU

(SEE burick U<-1172S0)

ELIVER

OuT

23

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32337994 Page 2

---

