# 124-90084-10013

## Page 1

124-90084-10013.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatio:, System

Identification Form

Agency Information

• . Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90084-10013

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-151578-9

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/23/1967

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

VICTOR ANTONIO JOSE DELGADO AGUIAR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

Secret

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HY 45778

6

DocId: 32329032

Page 1

---

## Page 2

IA FOMA (41 CFR) 01-11.°

ÜNITED STATES GO

RNMEN

Memorandum

SECRO

DIRECTOR, FBI: (105-151578-)

TO

-FROM-

SUBJECT:

DATE: 1/23/67

CIA HẦS NO -OBJÉCTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR;

RELEASE CE CHA INFORMATION.

VICTOR ANTONIO JOSE, DEIGADO AGUIAR

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCipt thE

IS - CHILE

(00: NY)

CLASSITIED IN 5668 3u0/KSR

K 10-9-97

Rew let to Bureau, 1/ 5/66 and Bured nort

zation to interview: subject dated 11/23/66:

AZTI

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an

LHM; dated and

captioned as above

The subject was not in erviewed until 1/9/67,

inasmuch as he had moved from his previously known address

and was on a three week vacation in Florida over the holiday

• season.

During the interview

the subject claimed he knew

nothing of any kind of meeting,o? conference. in santiago.

chile, while he was there in Febuary,

1966. He said that

he did not attend such meetings and also that he was very

pro-United States.

it appears that the in'ormation in the original

allegation in this matter from ClA to the effect that VICTOR

DELGADO,

with re-entry permit nunber 9245, was present at:

Communist, Youth Congress in Santiazo. Chile. was nrobabl

obtained.from /

Jinasmuch as this subject on intervie

stated he displayed his.travel pipers to no other person's.

It is also noted, that he had a visitors visa

to enter Chile which was probably the case of:

the delegates

and observers to the Communist Yuth Congress

All sources; who know the subject advised during

this investigation that he,, although

unactive,

is.anti

CASTRO;

he desires to become a United

States

citizen

Bureau (ENCL.

ENCLOSURE) (RM).

EX 108

New York

16

Copy to CiA/Stated

TO JAN 24119671

CHE/ 08I/A

611101

195210 2 3/0-50 g

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regulary on the Payroll Savings Pie

REVERSE SIDE: FOR

DISSEMINATION

NH 45778 DocId: 32329032 Page 2

---

