124-90137-10299} | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

| DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/21/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90137-10299

HQ

CR 105-81877-2

Document Information

FBI
PAPICH
BRENNAN

10/21/1963
2

ARNALDO ESCALONA ALMEIDA
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

09/28/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

i
\
v9.1
| WW 50953 Docla:32337533

Page 1


T = + as

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 . s010-106
1, MAY 1962 eoltion peucceena Sena)

GSA_GEM. REO. NO. 27 i
UNITED STATES G¢ ( Beto
e fohr
ie

a
(_ =RNMENT
aliens

Memorandum  « ai

TO : Mr. D. J. Brennan, sr yf

; DeLoach
Evans

10/21/63"

DATE

FROM Mr. S. J. Papich

ARNALDO ESCALONA ALMEIDA REL!

SUBJECT: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA. [N THIS DOCUM

Harold Swenson, CIA, furnished the ‘following to the Liaisoi
e Agent on 1078/60. NG

The 0 2/11/11, in Cuba, has been a member of ea
the Communist Party in his country since 1930, He is considered to
be an important party official at the present time. /CIA is artis Cr
conducting a program designed to come up with key o tacky! in Cuba (5. {
who possibly could be [ronsidere das targets for feorultaenty >) In sy) |
instance,|CIA is endeaVoring to|collect information which ht assis
the agency in establishing an entree 2) the target. The subject has
i jeen selected as a potential target |

Swenson advised that Hee has the following relatives
S.: u) :
1. Dr. ury Sabino Escalona Almeida, brother of subject,

born 2/10/10, a practicing psychiatrist residing 130 South
Oak Park St., Oak Park, Illinois, subject of Bufile 105-939

in the U.

2. Jose Manuey\Bscalong#fineida, brother of subject, born
Be iOA Cuba,, former pfofessor of.mat; atics, INS number
\ A12003808, residing with son, Roberto/EscalonaMoyos,, 305
s N 8th Avenue, Apartment B-2, Brooklyn; N

s
vy y 3. Enrique Rodriguez Escalona, nephew of subject, resides
\r New York City, employed. by McGraw-Edison, subject of Bufile
7 105-49971.

\" , 4.

Fabio Escalona Almeida, brother of subject, born 9/25/20

1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich
SJP:chs

O Ue

S AOS

Dectasstiy

resides San Ignacio, Puerto /Rico, Bufile 105-90098.

NN
¥ é 5.. Laureano,
ye NN abouts unknown

Sea long/ inetd, brother of subject, where-
JOF- i ae
i eae

4 1963

Nov

>”

Casciied
HW 50953 DocId:32337533 Page

2


wa F

Cw
io

BECRED

Papich to Mr. Brennan Memo al
ARNALDO ESCALONA ALMEIDA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

6. sonixHfacaropaAfccuy, niece of subject, born 8/11/40,_[ U)
INS #A124943387, married to a Cuban physician, reportedly”

residing in Cleveland, Ohio, |

Swenson stated that unless the Bureau had some objection,
CIA would like to explore the possibilities of approaching the
relatives in the U. S.{for.the purpose of developing informatio; U
concerning the subject. CIA hopes that having gained such informa-
tion, the agency might be able to find some (means of establishing
contact with the subject including possible use of one} of the rela- /Q)
tives )
/ Ww

ACT: :

The above information is being directed to the attention
| of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. It_is suggested that the
| Bureau position on this matter be transmitted [to CIA Ce

u

) ee

| Sate

| HW 50953 Docld:32337533 Page 3
