# 124-90146-10108

## Page 1

124-90146-10108

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-90146-10108

105-93072-128 THRU 131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: NY

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/28/1965

'PAGES :

21

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 4 MEMO, LHM

-

v9.1

NW 50953

DooId: 32339276

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-22 (FiV$ 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Bram

, 19

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

«Attention Musca

Return to Mullenc

Supervisor

303 RS

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main

- References Only •

Type of Search Requested:

I Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject

Diana Bornstein

Birthdate & Place -

Address

Localities

Prod. -

505:

Mart

Not

Localid

- Date 11-26

Searcher

Initials

FILE NUMBER

105 - 93012-131

iana Hermans

ST

Hermans,

Diana

105-1-317-258

Hemlens

hilane

62-26225-35•A My. Would tel: 132054

Bernation, koket Mas

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-22 (Rév: 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Bran

÷, 19

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File, Review

Attention -

1 Return to

Mullen 3032.B.

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

"Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject

Robert Bonstein

Birthdate

& Place

Address

Localities

R#.

Prod.

_ Date -

il-26

Searcher

Initials

FILE NUMBER

NRMt,

28-714-4

10593022-131

1N 50953

Do01d:32339276

Page 3

1355

---

## Page 4

4-22 (Plev. 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Brai

, 19

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

4 Attention -

2Return to

/asca

MulLeNs 303RB

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

•Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive Reterences Only

Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

• Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject -

Daniel Watte

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

R#

Prod.

MIF

Date _

11-26

Searcher

. Initials

FILE NUMBER

105:960316

50953

Do01d:32339276

Page 4

---

## Page 5

6..:.."0

, 1 - Mr. Mullins

SAC, New York (105-42387)

11-15-65

Irecter,

FBI (105-93072) - 130

107

RICHARD THOMAS, GIBSON

IS - CUBA

SECRET

ALL MOMENTION CruTA

NERIN

IS UNCLASOURRES EAGEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTNERWISE

Reuriet: 10-29-65. L

Prior to instituting action concerning subject's

removal from Security Index, Bureau desires a report or

memorandum be prepared for dissemination purposes to include

any unreported subversive activities on subject's part.

Submit promptly and you will be advised further concerning

subject's Security Index status.

RAM: bjs (4)

NOTE:

Subject was head of Fair Play for Cuba Committee

at one time and is now living in London where he is connected

with some communist publications.

In 1962 subject offered to

serve as informant for Bureau solely for financial reasons but:

we declined and told CIA of his offer.

In September,

1965,

CIA advised It is now directing Gibson's activities.

Prior toS)

removing him from Index, it is felt a current report

memorandum should be submitted to interested agencies.

MAILED I

NOV 1% 1965

COMM-FBI

12/30194

Classified by by WAC SMI

Declassify on:

OADE

(GFL

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

* Tale

Tosen

Sullivan

FI4

Tavera

Tob.3 NOV 22 1965

*Holmes -

Gandy -

MAIL ROOMLV

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

cleariad by _

Crarips from GDS, Cate

Daia d' Deslassitica.ion 1r

NGC/83/1018

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

G5A FPMR (41 CFR) 101 - 11.6

UNITED STATES GP *ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

I SAC; NEW YORK (105-42387)

RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

IS - CUBA

DATE: 10/29/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SECRET

ReBulet, 10/22/65. U

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON 1s a SI subject of the

NYO.

that

name SUGAR to

Set on as on and has even to saadenco

Although GIBSON's previous activities would

warrant retention on the SI, it is felt that inasmuch

as GIBSON has been debriefed by CIA and is presently

being operated by CIA, GIBSON no longer warrants inclusion

on the sI, and accordingly it is being recommended that

name of RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON be deleted from the

SI.

S

Guet To SAC, NY

11-15-65

Bureau (RM)

1-New York

JEH: mm

(3)

12/30194

clasified by SOX MAC GAT

Declassily.

ong

OADR

REG- 76

EX-101

159

APPROPRIAtE NCENCIES

AND TIGED

CAGES

CUMING

STOREDO

DẠT

105=9302E-130

8 NOV I 1965

Cleastived by

Eremptfrom

311046

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 6

---

## Page 7

tivo Supervisor

a Muzlins

0031

SAC, New York (105-42387)

10-22-65

Director, FBI (105-93072)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

PERSONAL ATTENTION

ALL NUFORMATION CONTANES

TOP SECRET

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFICD EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWS OTHERWIS

According to Bureau Source 6, on 9-21-65

Richard Gibson in London contacted Robert Williams

Cuba and indicated he had received an unidentified

hessage

from Williams.

Gibson assured Williams of his personal

loyalty and solidarity in "the struggle."

Gibson also said

le was partially responsible for Williams' situati

as ready to make and effort which would help T

As you are aware, Central Intelligence

Agency

(CIA) has advised in confidence that it is operating

Gibson and the message, would indicate that CIA is attempting

to have Gibson re-establish contact with Williams

Note

that CIA has assigned the code name SUGAR to Gibson and

cata

originating with him will be attributed to that code

name

CIA's operational interest

be

maintained

ta Strictest contidence. Bureau Source

is for lead purposes only and must not be included

o data (S)

communications prepared for dissemination.

I-London (100-36124) stimation 10

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

pi?!

Williams)

UNRECORDED COPY TILED I/00138172&-

OCT 2 2 1965

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

IDe Loach

COSCLASSIFIEI

COMM-FBI

who fled to Cuba to

avoid a kidnapping trial and is now a Bureau fugitive.

Gibson

was formerly head of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee but has

claimed to be repentant. We were in tough with him in 1962

at which time he offered to serve as informant purely for

to the U.sl

asons without showing, any allegiance whatsoever

¡He advised ClA of his offer to, cooperate and in

May, 1965

did

make

contact with Gibson in London where he

noW

resides!

AN

SEASON AU

aware or

50

105-930020/129

olmes

*TENSION

3A....

FOR

CATION...

' MAIL?

23

1022.05

eclassity ors

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953

Do01d:32339276

Page 7

---

## Page 8

F.

• i, OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

MAY 1962 EDITION

EGSA GEN: LEG. NO. 27

UNITED, STATES GORNMENT

Memorandum

TO

-DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

DATE: JUN 2 8 1965

SECRET

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387) (0)

SUBJECT:

RU

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

APPROPRTATE AGRACIES

AD7375.25

UTING

SLIP(S) 0)

us

DATE

MMM.

ReLegat, Londonlet, 4/26/65. 1

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 10

copies m to dated m canted there.

It

is requested that one of the copies be furnished by

the Bureau to Legat, London as requested in re

Legat, London Letter. U

(So ones containe en reel, 1/20969

NY T-1 referred to in the memorandum

NY T-2 is NY 4964-S*.

NY I-3

RICHARD GIBSON.

NY 3164-S who is used to characterize

MrS. JAY SAPIENZA,

Superintendent at 45 Carmine

Street,

NY, NY, was contacted by SA JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY

on 6/3/65.

Clanation by

The records of BSS

apa BCI, NYCPD, were

Exocip! 1:om CD.

reviewed by SA AUGUST J. MIC]

on 5/31/65.

Da'ao! Declassit

Credit Bureau of Greater

The records of

NY were reviewed by IC

Bureau (EncIs. 10) (RN) REC-62/05-93077-438

JEH: cta

/ Copy to

London

by routing slip for

classified

12/301% SARMACSAT

IX info

¿ action

date. 4/ 30/65

Dedlassity

DADB

JFK

cpAp

16. JUM

80 1965

Copy; to:

ONI /OSI/ACSI

Da routing slil or into.

Date: Le

30/l5

0 JUL

221965

Buy V.S.

Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Pla

NN 50953 DooId:32339276 Page 8

heatin

KEEPIN

SÉCRET

---

## Page 9

NY 105-42387

SECRET,

By letter dated 4/30/65, Legat, Mexico, advised that

the Mexico City Station of CIA,

by memorandum

2/18/65, captioned "American Communists' Contacts In

Mexico City" which was classified "Secret" with instructions

that the information not be disseminated outside the

Bureau, furnished information indicating that a leading

member of the National Liberation Movement, a pro-Cuba,

anti-US Communist front,

stated that LEO HUBERMAN and

FRANCES KELLY, both of whom are editors of

"Monthly Review" were In Mexice According to even

the possibility of publishing English translations of the

HUBERMAN and KELLY were interested in discussing

writings of DAVID ALFARO SIQUEIROS, a well known Mexican

artist and a member of the Central

Committee of the Mexican

CP.

The memorandum also indicated that KELLY arrived

in contact man merican double an o So

The enclosed LHM is being classified

"Secret"

as it contains information furnished by CIA which was

classified

"Secret"

-2-

SECRET

| HH 50953

DocId: 32339276 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TED STATES DEPARTMENT O

JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Bureau;:

New York

105-93072

105-42307

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP?

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

b gprs)1930-985

Richard Thomas Gibson

Internal Security - Cuba

on April 20, 1905, NY I-1, another Government

agency which conducts intelligence investigations, furnished

information indicating that on April 2, 1905, an employee

of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England, had furnished

ti

Richard Gibson the telephone number of a girl who was

Wgoing to stay in the United Kingdom and who wanted to

Frances

see Gibson.

NY T-I noted that the girl is evidently

Frances Kelley of the "Monthly Review"' of "New York.

NY I-I advised that Kelley had a letter of introduction

to the above-mentioned employee of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England, from Leo Huberman with whom she had

worked

in New York S

decial Securit

+1 043-51-2909

A characterization of "Monthly

Review" is contained in the appendix

hereto.

On March 1, 1965, NY T-2, who has furnished

reliable information

in the past,

furnished information

indicating that Frances Kelly, who is originally from

SECRET

Classäted toy.

Exacmpt from CDS, C

Da:no! Declassilica

1001

GROUP

Excluded

rom

automatic

downgrading and

12/30/9 SOSmACGAT

declassification

Declassity on:

ADi JFK This document contains neither recommendation,

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

185-93872-128

LICLOSURE

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Righard Thomas Gibson

England and who recently returned to England, was employed

by the publication "Monthly Review" In New York for several

jears. NY I-2 advised that while residing in New York,

she resided at 45 Carmine Street, Apartment 25, New York,

New York.

NY T-2 advised that Frances Kelly is the sister

of Pat Kelly Gunter Grove, London, Southwest 102

England.

NY"

advised that her Social security number

18:043-51-2909.

NY T-2 further advised that in June, 1964,

"Monthly Review"

work regarding a cumulative index for the party book

shop in Accra,

which had been requested by the Ghana

Mission to the United Nations. KU)

The March, 1964 issue of "Monthly Review" on

page 623, contains a book review by Frances Kelly in

which she is identified as an assistant to the editors

of "Monthly Review"

On June 3, 1965, Mrs. Jay Sapienza,

15 Carmine Street,

Superintendent,

New York, New York, advised that Frances

Kelly resided at 45 Carmine

Street, for approximately

two years until January, 1965, at which time she indicated

that she was going to make a trip to Mexico and then return

to ingland.

Mrs. Sapienza stated that she believed that

Frances Kelly originally came to the United States from

England as she had an English accent. Mrs. Sapienza

stated that Kely is in her early 30's and was a journalist

who worked for a magazine in New York, New York.

Mrs.

Sapienza stated that during her residence at 45

Carmine

Street, Frances Kelly was an excellent tenant.

SECRET

2

NH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

The records of the Bureau of Special Services

ana the Bureau of Criminal Identification, New York

City Police Department, were searched on

May 31, 1905,

and no record identifiable with Frances Kelly could be

Located. l

The files of the Credit Bureau of Greater New -

York were reviewed on May 19, 1965 located.

and no record identi-

fiable with Frances Kelly could be

Concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, NY I-3, who

has furnished reliable information in the past, has

advised that Gibson was the former Acting Executive

Secretary of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. In

Gibson as

the English Language Editor of "Revolution

Africalne"

, a new weekly created by the Political Bureau

of the Algerian Government. U

A characterization of the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee is contained in

the appendix hereto.'

SECRET

3

NN 50953

DocId: 32339276

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York

Times" newspaper contained

a full-page advertisement

captioned "What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by

the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertise-

ment announced the formation of the PCC in New York city

and declared the FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth

about revolutionary Cuba" to neutralize the distorted

American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 1l,

1961,' reported that at a hearing conducted before the

United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on

January 10, 1961, DE. CHARTES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified

himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the FPCC. He

also testified he and TABER obtained funds from the Cuban

Government which were applied toward the cost of the afore-.

mentioned advertisement. U

On May 16, 1953; a source advised that during

the first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a

struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC

and thereby influence FPCC policy. This source added that

during the past year there had been a successful effort by

FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and other

organizations in the FPco so that their iniluence as oI

May, 1903, was negligible.'

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450. U

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that

VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was

then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no

intention of permitting FPCS poljcy to be determined by

any other organization. This source stated that LE

believed that the FPCC should advocate resumption of

diplonatic relations between cuba and the Uniced states

and should support the right of Cucans to manage their

revolution without Interference from other nations.

LEE

dià nos advocate supporting the cuban revolution per se. y

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Bichaed

0o0

SECRET

2.

APFENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTRE

The November 23, 1963, edition of "The New Yoil

Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of Connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the CASTRO network in the United States."

It is to be noved

that Senator DODD was a member of the senate Internal Security

subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on the FPOC.

The December 27, 1953, edition of "The New voi

World Telegram and Sun"

newspaper stated that the pro-

CASTRO FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that

its prime activity during its jifetime had been sponsor-

ship of pro-CASTRo street ralies and mass picket Lines,

and the cirection of an active propagande it highlighting

illegal travel-to-tube canpaigns.

public epic inancan had

span of life was attributed to mounting anti-CASTRO American

rublic opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which dis-

closed FPCC financing by CASTRO's United Nations Delegation,

and ultimately: the bad publicity which the FPCC received

from disciosure of activities on its behalf ky suspected

presidential assassin, LiE Hi. OSWALD. U

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned

second source advised

that V.

T. LEE had recently remarked

that the EPCC was dead and that there were no plans to

organize another similar organization. U

on April 13, 1964, a third source adulsed that

there had not been any FICC activity in many months aud

that the FPCC had been dissolved.

...

SECRET

HW 50953

DocId: 32339276 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Rut chard

6s 3s02

SECREL

MONTHLY REVIEW

A source advised on March 24, 1953, that Monthly

Review, Inc., was incorporated in the State of New York

on October 19, 1951, and the corporation papers reflected

it succeeded the individual business of LEO HUBERMAN at

66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, which operated

since 1S49 under the title, Monthly Review Press. a

The publication is "An Independent Socialist

Magazine" with editorial and business offices at 333 Sixth

Avenue, New York 14; New York, and mailing address at 66

Barrow

Street, New York, New York, according to the March,

1961, issue of "Monthly Review."

Its editors are listed

aS LEO HUBERMAN and PAUL M. SWEEZY.

LOUIS F. BUDENZ, former editor of the "Daily

worker,"

an East Coast Communist newspaper which suspended

publication on January 13, 1958, advised on June 23, 1950,

that LEO HUPERMAN was a member of the CP in 1945.*

Another source advised on November 2, 1954, that

PAULM. sWEeLY was known as a Marxist, but not as a communist

Party (CP) member.

The same source stated that the CP hardi

core had been critical of SWEEZY because of his independent

application of Marxist theory.

According to the source,

SWEEZY was used to advantage in many ce front activities

in the 1930's.

The CP has

been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

SECRET

HY 50953

DooId: 32339276

Page 15

---

## Page 16

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Bureau

105-93072

New York

105-42387

TED STATES DEPARTMENT Ó

-FUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New To k

New York

June

, 1965

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIM IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

Richard Thomas Gibson

Internal Security - Cuba

On April 20, 1965, NY I-I, another Government

agency which conducts

intelligence investigations, furnished

information indicating that on April 2, 1965, an employee

of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England,

had furnished

Richard Gibson the telephone number of

a girl who was

going to stay in the United Kingdom and who wanted to.

see Gibson. NY I-l noted that the girl is evidently

Frances Kelley of the "Monthly Review" of New York.

NY I-1 advised that Kelley had a letter of introduction

to the

above-mentioned employee of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England, from

Leo Huberman with whom she had

worked

In New York(C

A characterization of "Monthly

Review" is contained in the appendix

hereto. U

On March 1, 1965, NY I-2, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, furnished information

indicating that Frances Kelly, who 1s originally Irom

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

62 30 94

classies by Sp& mAC GAT

downgrading and

Declassity on

OADR

UFK

declassification

This

document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

England and who recently returned to England, was employed

by the publication "Monthly Review" in New York for several

years.

NY I-2 advised that while residing in New York,

she resided at 45 Carmine Street, Apartment 25, New York,

New York. Ny T-2 advised that Frances Kelly is the sister

of Pat Kelly, 19 Gunter Grove,

is

NY I-2 further advised that in June, 1904,

rrances Kelly directed correspondence on behalf of

"Monthly Review" to the Ghana Mission to the United

Nations

indicating that she had done

some research

work regarding a cumulative index for the party book

shop in Accra, which had been requested by the Ghana

Mission to the United Nations.

The March, 1964 Issue of "Monthly Review" on

page 623, contains a book review by Frances Kelly in

which she is identified as an assistant to the editors

of "Monthly Review". \

45 Carmine Street,

Kelly resided at 45 Carmine

on June New York, New York,

1965, Mrs. Jay Sapienza,

Superintendent,

advised that Frances

Street, for approximately

two years until January, 1965, at which time she indicatea

that she was going to make a trip to Mexico and then return.

to England. Mrs. Sapienza stated that she believed that

Frances Kelly originally came to the United States from

England as she had an English accent.

stated that Keliy is in her early 301 Mrs. Sapienza

and was a journalist

who worked for a magazine in New York, New York.

Mrs.

Sapienza stated that during her residence at 45 Carmine

Street, Frances Kelly was an excellent tenant.

SECRET

2

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

The records of the Bureau of Special Services

and the Bureau of Cririnal Identification, New York

city Police Department, were searched on May 31, 1905;

and no record identifiable with Frances Kelly could be

located.

The files of the Credit Bureau of Greater New .

York were reviewed on May 19, 1965 jocated.

and no record identi-

fiable with Frances Kelly could be

Concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, NY I-3, who

nas furnished reliable information in the past, has

advised that Gibson was the former Acting Executive

Secretary of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

September, 1902, Gibson left the United States and

went to Algeria

where he remained until April, 1903.

The March 19, 1963 issue of "Monthly Review" identifies

Gibson as the English Language Editor of "Revolution

Africaine".

, a new weekly created by the Political Bureau

of the Algerian Government.

A characterization of the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee is contained in

the appendix hereto.

SECRET

HH 50953

DocId: 32339276 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTES

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York

Times" newspaper contained a full-page advertisement

captioned "what Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by

the Fair. Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC).

This advertise-

ment announced the formation of the FPCC in New York City

ana declared the FPCC intended to promulgate

"the truth

about revolutionary Cuba" to neutralize the distorted

American press.

"'The New York Times" edition of January ll,

1961, reported that at a hearing conducted before the

United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on

January 10, 1961, Dr. CHARTES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified

himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the FPCC.

also testified he aná TABER obtained funds from the Cuban

Government which were applied toward the cost of the afore-

mentioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during

the first two years of the FPCCis existence there was a

0ể the

struggle between Communist Party (CP; and Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC

and thereby influence FPCC policy. This source added that

auring the past year there had been a successful effort by

FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and other

organizations in the FPCC so that their influence as of

May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has heen designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that

VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director,

was then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no

intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by

any other organization.

This source stated that LEE

belleved that the FPCC should advocate resumption of

diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States

and should support the right of Curans to manage their

revolution without Interference from other nations.

LEE

did not advocate supporting the cuban revolution per se.

SECRET

HH 50953 DocId:32339276 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

2.

APFENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMATINEE

introduct inse;

The Novenhes 23, 1963, edition of "The New yolk

Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations

inatrument of

the CASTRO networks in the United States."

It is to be noted

that Senator DODD was a member of the Senate Internal Securicy

Subcommittee which twice conducted heurings on the FFCC.

The December 27, 1953, edition of "the New York:

World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-

CASTRO FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that

its prine activity during its lifetime had been sponsor-

ship of pro-CASIRO street rallies and nass pickst lines,

and the direction of an active propaganda initi highlighting

illegal travel-to-Cuba campaigns. Its comparatively brief

span of llfe was attributed to mounting anti-CASTRO American

BEENE

public opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which dio-

closed FECC financing by CASTRO: United Nations Delegation,

and ultimately. the bad publicity which the FPCC reccived

from disclosure of activities on its behalf by suspected

On February 6, 1954, the previously mentioned

second source advised

that v.

T. LEE had recently remarked

that the PPCC was dead and that, there were no plans to

organize another similar organization.

on April 13, 1954, a third source advised that

there had not been any HICO activity in many months aud

that the FPCC had been diassived.

SECRET

HW 50953

DocId: 32339276 Page

20

---

## Page 21

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

MONTHLY REVIEW

A source advised on March 24, 1953, that Monthly

Review, Inc., was incorporated in the state of New York

on October 19, 1951, and the corporation papers reflected

it succeeded the individual business oi LEO HUBERMAN at

66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, which operated

since 1949 under the title, Monthly Review Press.

The publication is. "An Independent Socialist

Magazine" with editorial and business

offices at 333 Sixth

Avenue, New York 14, New York, and mailing address at 66

Barrow

Street, New York, New York, according to the March,

Review."

Its editors are listed

as LEO HUBERMAN and PAUL M. SWEEZY.

LOUIS F. BUDENZ, former editor of the "Daily

worker," an East Coast Communist newspaper which suspended

publication on January 13, 1958, advised on June 23, 1950,

that LEO HUBERMAN was a member of the CP in 1945.

inother source advised on November 2, 1954, that

PAULM. SWEELY waS known as a Marxist, but not as a communist

Party (CP) member.

The same source stated that the CP hard

core had been critical of SWEEZY because of his independent

application of Marxist theory.

According to the source,.

SWEEZY was used to advantage in many CP front activities

in the 1930's.

The CP has

been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

6

SECRET

HH 50953

Doc1d:32339276

Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

141301

Sit. Krupinsky

Mr. Anderson

(H1) 205-110170

Datod

July 33, 1063

Diroctor

Central Intoliganoe Agordy

Attention: Deputy Director, Plas

Jona Edgar Hooves, Director

Subjecti

UNIONY SUBJECTS!

sovertoon Anoricnn Herroog

Tralning 1n Mansing, Chias

INIXANAL SECURITY * CRIME

DY LIAISOR CONTAINED

ALL INSC

HEREAS IS ENO

SISTED EXCEPT

WHERE

SHOWN:

eCHERWISE;

classical or

ExAmpilaTiCO:

Dras: Decliss ice

Information has boon recoivod Iron a conisdontlad

nourds abroad that according to & South African no mo

trained in guerrilla vartaro at tho Nanking Military School

In Chins in 1003, thore wore soventoon Andrican no toes also

training at tits schooi.

the sourco further stated that thia

mas not tho firat arous of inerican negroes to receive such

REndning thoro

no additional infornation has bean devoloped corrobo

rating the above ollogation.

Horever, a rovlar of our 11l09

indicates that e source of your Agency, who utilizos the

cryptonyn "Sugar," evidently bas a vide acquaintanceship in

Alrienn nationallot movements and theroforo ray bo in a pOsItIOn

to tarnish intornation concorning this utter.

it to thoro

lose requentod that "Sugne" be contaoted

any

INZOTNAFION

ORICINAI. FIl

no may be able to turnish in this rogard

12.30100

) - 105-93072 (Richard Thomas Gibson)

classified by pamACIGAT

LIA: am?:lcr (7)

Declassify on

DAR PA)

NOTE:

Original information in this natter was furnishod by Ml-e.

it in possible tho narroos refarred to are from south or centra

America, 11, in fact, they ste Anericans.

40540511V054191t1O1 to

dste has tallod to develop any acditionai coxtoborating late sugar

referred to above is Richard Thomas Gibson, formerly Involved with

the Inly Play for Cuba Committee, and well-known to the Bureau.

CIA has recently initiatod

contact with him in Europe and plans to operato him as & sOUrCe.

Ile Initial debrialing by CIA indicates ho should be contacted

concerning captioned matter.

This letter classifled

"SeCret" SInCE

1t roponta data from MI-C nemorandun so claasified.

0593072

RECORDED

46 JUL 27 1965

Exclude

¡ from automatlo:

lowngra

sing and

¡classification

(s)

NN 50953

DooId: 32339276

Page 22

---

