# 124-10287-10412

## Page 1

124-10287-10412

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information.

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10412

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-301

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/05/1966

" PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

NH° 50953

DocId: 32305282

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Alrtel

CIA 495

5/10/66

Der. 8i..

RELEASE M

ES IME DOCUM: EXCEPT BRACKETSI - Mr. Nasca

7-9-98

ALL INFORMATION CONTATREN

HEREIN iS VICLASSAFIED

DICEFT THERE SHORN

OTHERISB

1."

MAILED 12

z,

MAY

1019

66

Tol un

Del carh

dohr

г1-к

¿ailahon

"ens.''

Fol:

Gale

Re. 10

Sullivan

Tav: 1

incites

Tele. Roos

Holmes -

Gandy

To:

BAG, Miamt (105-3865)

AC, ML RESH: (07-4474) - 1

3/10/95-564801/GAT

OVINIENTO INSURRECCICHAL DE RICUPIRACIO

Declassify on: OADR BA/GeL

VOLUCTONARIA CHIRA

8-8-49

220/85 | CJFK

NINE ALRY MATTREATE 5648 SUO/ESE CARE A IS CASITED

ce male 111

9803 red/gel

70241,726 3/80/42

Attached ie copy of cIA Intelligence Information

Cable dated May 5, 1960, captioned "plans of the MIal for

an Aertal Attack on the Premidential Palace An Eavana, " 76)

Including Custons in Wlam!

Inmediately check logical sources and informanta

for any pertinent information which would tond to subutantiate

the data contained in the attached van anteraaad

Sualrtel

rosults in form sultable for dermination and include the

portinent CIA data In the natorial prepared for disentnation. &

In the acninistrative pages accompanying the data

prepared for dissenination, dvise bother CIA and Army have

any operational intereut in this sotivity. 18 no, conduot

no accelonas investigation. If CIA and Army have no

operational interent deternine what investipation, 1e ass

Custona in conduoting of piang to conduct.

I1 Customs 1a

Envestigating, advie Bureau and make no further inguiries. Actio

Custons la not investigating,

mbit your recommendations

ogarding further inventigation.

Handle by airtel as indionted above unlea

urgency

Situation demands more expeditious: handling. e

Enc logure

MAY 181406

VEN: sa 1/.

(4)

NOTE:

mind is militant anti astro organization with

bondquarters in Minni, Florida.

It has sion engaged in

numerous efforts to attack Cuba,

the most: recent of which

aborted in Aprtl, 11906, when head of emptioned organization

two associates wore arrested by Florlda authoritles in

possession of six aerial bombs. These arrunts were made on

invormation originating with Bureau! The bombs were intended to

whion was to be usod on bombing raid on Cuba.

FT

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO.

HH

50953

DocId: 32305282

Page 2

---

## Page 3

i Xess (1-5)

1S: 01A1S

Haddy,

# Vd/ 105

N# 50953

DoeId: 32305282

Page 3

....-

:

---

## Page 4

SECREU

Airtel to SAC, Miamt

RE:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

HOTE CONTINUED:

TA has now provided data indicating head of

MIRR has indicated organization has plans for operation that

will involve the U.S. in "serious way."

MIRE needs money

to finance this operation and boat which is capable of high

speeds to carry out the plan.

MIBR hoad also spoke of

planned air attack on presidential palace in Havana. Plane

reportedly will take off from British territory and after

attack will land at Key West, Plorida. If U.S. authorities

attempt to take legal action,

MIRE reportedly will publicly

annowice that attack had been directed and financed by u.s.

Government

In view of the use of British territory, we

if this data

ar che data was been humashetore by llaison to determine 54) [5)

has been furnished

instructzons

are in line with ofr

policy in handling natters

of this type.

CLA BRACKETTO NFO REMAINS

CLASSIFIEO

RER THE 2 12/20/91

9803 red/get

* 21, 326 3/30/92

1hO32

SECRET

97-44-74-301

10413

NH 50953 DooId: 32305282

Page 1

---

## Page 5

4 3006

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE. AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

IN 11331

STATEANR DIA

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

JCS

COAST GUARD

ECDEF

Transmisson

PAGE 1:05 3 PAGES

NSA

SDO

ONE

OCR

CIA/NMCC

TENS CUSTOMS TREASURY FAA

DDI

EXO

Deronse of the United State

n any manne

anautorized peren la prontie Donare Lave, Title 16, U.9.0,

Oros

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT.

FINA

EVALUATED INTELLIGENCER

TDCS DB-315/01302-66

DIST

5 MAY 1966

COUNTRY: CUBA

DOL:

30 APRIL 1966

SUBJECT: PLANS.

.OF THE MIRR FOR AN AERIAL ATTACK ON THE

PRESIDENTIAL PALACE IN HAVANA

HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

ACQ:

RELEASE DE CIA NFORMACION BRACKER

UF G- 8249

KP 1-998

SOURCE:

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (5 MAY 1966)

A MEMBER OF

GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN

THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE

GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961°

1• ON 30 APRIL 1966 ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER OF

THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY>,

SAID THAT THE MIRR HAS PLANS FOR AN OPERATION THAT WILL

INVOLVE THE UNITED STATES IN. A "SERIOUS WAY."

HE SAID

S-EC-RET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Olin

C/Aeroula

ALL FOL INFORMATION: CONTAINED

HERE

ĐAT 3/10/98

5668 deBAT

97-4444-301

HH 50953 DooId: 32305282 Page 5

---

