# 124-90139-10161

## Page 1

124-90139-10161

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90139-10161

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

NY

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/22/1961

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH

50953

DocId: 32338034

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JoD. Dononue

Nasca

SAC, New York (134-5606)

REC- 87

Director,

FBI (

SECRE

6-14-88

SUSPISR

CLASSIFIEN BY 5668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

NY 3248-PSI

IS - CUBA

Classie

194

my 2803A00lsy

Olive

6711324

CADR

For your information,

on 8/16/61 advised

that

nas dealt with bla operations in cuba. o

) - This material

Be alert for possible conflict of interest between

Bureau and CIA and, if CIA's occasional use of subject in

any way conflicts with Bureau's interest,

inmediately

furnish full details and your comments, obseruations, and

recommendations.

During contacts with PSI, endeavor to determine,

without revealing the above CIA information, whether he is in

contact with any other agency. In this connection,

PSI has

been connected with MRP which was of operational interest to

It is possible PSI,

in his activity for the urf,

actually doing work for CIA without knowing it since

frequently operated in organizations, such as uP, through

CUTOUESO

8-1619

5 la

18 SID/ude

VEN: dcr

(5)

Declassif on: DROP EF

NOTE:

Airlines, New York. He has been associated with MRI, anti-Castro

organization, and has furnished New York with information

concerning the MRP and Cubana Airlines, including the manifests

of Cubana Airlines. Investigation of subject's background has

been favorable.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ATI, TNHCRMATTON CONTATNED

DECLASSIGCADON AND/OR,

1. 1.

PELFARE MA ORNATION

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Ingram

Gandy

WHENE SOCWN OTHERMiSE

MAILED, &

AUG 2 1 1961

COMM-FBI

ім ТР /

KP 5-11-48

SECREI

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NH 50953 DocId: 32338034 Page 2

---

