# 124-10072-10413

## Page 1

124-10072-10413

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10072-10413

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE-NUMBER: 44-24016-863

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/20/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JR, ACT, TRAVEL OUTSIDE US

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/30/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001-

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INCLUDES DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE TO SAC, DL

NW 50953

DooId: 32143876

Page 1

---

## Page 2

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

XP2/1197 4883-Rd Mide 10-21 4357K

SUBJECT: Jack RUBY

SP-4988

20 December 1963

1. A reliable source has furnished this office with a copy

of a communication dated December 16, 1963, received from

Ben- Zion

FLAN

fading as follows:

No loc

"After hearing from you of rumors which intimated that

Jack Ruby was a member of the Histadrut Delegation, and after

learning that this was pinpointed to a Delegation of 1955 in which

E. H. Williams participated - I culled the material in the Histadrut

office in New York and I would like to present the facts to you;

"(L) In the summer of 1955 a delegation consisting of active trade

union people left the United State's for a short visit to Israel and

the flistadrut. (P)(4)

"(2) The delegation consisted of the following people:

George Cavender

Harold Gibbons

Jacob Clayman

TOT/FA #.

16434

APPEAL. #.

E. H. Williams

CIVIL AOR. #,

Frank Winn

Joseph Applebaum

BAT: 7Z-8350

Anthony Ballerini

(u) ,

Perc/Alter?

STATS MO

Roy Brown

$)

All iNto

LASS (5) WIlT REMAIN

CLASS PERCION

5892

"(3) Confusion resulting

in present rumors may have been caused by

the fact that on the fame El- Alflight there likewise travélled,

completely on his own initiative and at his own expense, a man named

Nate Stein, head of a

public relations firm from Los Angele

This

14-2401686:

BECIO-FIA "IPHIE REC- 12

* Representative of the Histadrut in New Yorker

Exeludad tea criemail: /

demore las and

descerite dian

NH 50953 DocId:32143876 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BAC, Dallas (44-1638)

SECRET

Director, TBI (84-24026) - 863

FaC- 12

SAGI LI.

CIVIL RIQUO

Classified B

Exempt from GDs

12/87/ 83

2640

#6454

Ap 2/1/97

and aftor loarnias that this vas pistolatad to a lolegation

Of 1955 1n WhIch I. 1. T1111093 MArESBIparOd - 1 asiJeR

tho natorial ln tho aintoeut office la don Tort and I

TOuld IlkO to proBonE tha PERtO dO Jon: (5164)

ado unson peoplo left the tasto

• lareal and tho ilatauratd s lu

"(2) Tha dologation conslatod ol the lolloniaz poeplo:

102143

HAFOLA CAT

Massina. ty

9803-pddbuds

Declaccity on: CRaR (

(57)

Frank ten

зовера Apalsene

Roy trava

.177.7735

254T9

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel

Trotter

Tale. P.oom

Holmes

Gindy

no sold, laprensod hintell suraly on ti

1 - Hr. S. J. Papich (Room 845 RB)

see page tuo for

the note

SECREI,

TELETYPE UNIT L

NH 50953 DocId:32143876 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Lottor to SAC, Dallas

JACK L; RUBY,

AkA.

SECRET,

" (4)

Grog Bardacke who was on that tour romembors Nato Stein

very distinctly.

He atates catogoricolly

: that Nate Stein vas

not trot toy wies pare la publinited on both to and radio)

lugo Moratt has informed no that Jacob Clayman,

looking over again the pictures of

that Nate Stein vas not Jack Ruby SM(U)

the trip; likewise states

The Regional Director of the

Histadzut Campaigo la Los

Angeles, Bernard Jacobson, haa confirmed that Nato Stein is

listed

in this year's telephone directory in Los

Angeles

under the same address as in 1955 (Nate Stein, Public and

Labor Relations Counsel, 426 So. Rexford Drive, Beverly Hills,

Calif.

Telaphone us 1-993048

"(5)

May I repost

again that Nate Stein, whoever he is and

phatever he does, was not invited to lexeel by the listadruly

"It te simpler to start a rumor than to quash one.

I do hope.

however,

that the above nentioned facts will

halp clear the air.

(4)

Prom

NOTE:

which was received t

informant 100/ Ben-Zion ILAN, was furnished byls

informant to SA S.

J. Papich, Liaison section. Any future

correspondence concerning this matter should be coordinated

through SA Papich.

Information from a source in Israel

originally alleged that Jack

Ruby had

visited Israel and the

Histadrut, the national israeli labor organization, with a

group of trade union people from the U. S. in 1955.

The

above is a follow-up of that

has no merit.

Our investigation does

* on eation into indicat allegation

and Ruby denies having made such

it upon the arearlon

2

SECRETA

...i.

HH 50953 DocId: 32113876 Page 4

---

