/124-90060-10012|

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

COMMENTS :

OPENING CRITERIA :

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90060-10012
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 139-4744-8
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: AT,
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 07/15/1974
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
ALLEGED TAPPING OF TELEPHONE OF U.S. SENATOR
HOWARD BAKER
LUCIEN CONEIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A i
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 06/19/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA.

TT

v9.1
BW 50953

Docld: 32327263

Page 1


PAGE THREE
AT 139-NEW

THAT HE HAS. WORKED FOR CIA IN THE. PAST; THAT HE IS FRIENDS
WITH. CIA AGENTS AND OFFICIALS; THAT HE BELIEVES CONEIN TO

BE AN EX-CIA AGENT AND KNOWS THAT JOHN MULDOON IS A FORMER
CIA AGENT.

GIBSON ADVISED THAT DURING THE COURSE OF A NORMAL

WORKING DAY TWO OR THREE MEN USUALLY ENTER AND WORK IN THE
SUB*LEASED: SCI SPACE. THEY STAY DURING THE COURSE OF AN

ENTIRE DAY WITHOUT LEAVING THE SPACE AND DO NOT SEEM TO
CONDUCT BUSINESS INA NORMAL MANNER. AN. UNIDENTIFIED
FRIEND OF GIBSON’S OVERHEARD INDIVIDUALS IN THE SPACE,

ALLEGEDLY LEASED BY DEA, DISCUSSING “TAPES”. BASED ON THE _

ABOVE INFORMATION AND BASED ON GIBSON’S EXPERIENCE WITH

WIRETAPPING WITH THE COBB COUNTY, GEORGIA, SHERIFF’S OFFICE,.
HE BELIEVED -A WIRETAP OPERATION. WAS BEING CONDUCTED IN THE. .

SPACE ALLEGEDLY SUB-LEASED BY DEA FROM SCI.

THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS FURNISHED mi 1G)

CIA, ATLANTA (COVERT), ON JULY 11, 1974.

ON JULY 12, 1974, HOWARD GIBSON VOLUNTEERED THE ©
FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL. INFORMATION:
END PAGE THREE

ie

HW 50953 DocId:32327263 Page 2
