# 124-90140-10036

## Page 1

124-90 140-10036

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90140-10036

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4351-152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/21/1961

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId:32338079

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

¿ Liaison

1

Go Co MOOre

1 = Meier

CIA HAS NO PHECION TO

RELEASE A INFORMATION •

DEA THE DRAGMENT, EXCEPT FOR

BRACKETS

9p4351

KP 5-18-98

Dates

December 21, 1961

SECRET

COPLES MADE

6- 7-98

TACHA

FOR REVIEW

HSCA RE

28 FETCET

REQUEST.

(SEE BUFILE #62-117290)

TOS

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attentions Deputy Director,

Plans

From:

John Edgor Hoover, Director

Subject:

MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ RAMOS

INTERNAL SECURITY • DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Occlassify on

5668-540 des

ALI. I FORMATION CONTATIO

HENRIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

PHERE SHOWN OTHERWiSE.

captioned individual's actruities in the post have

been such as to render him possibly liable to register with

ine Attorney General of the united states in accorcance

mith provisions of sections 0510057e Title 50, United States

Code or of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as

amended.

-BED ISR

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

In view of your present interest in this individual,

any application of the exception provisions contained in

Sections 851-85%, Title 50, United States Code is

being left

to your discretion (SlU).

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach.

Evans

SuM Ivan

(6)

subject is a defected agent of the Dominican Intellig

on 3/3/61:the Director

excepted him from the requirements of sections 851-857, Title 50,

UoÑo

Code, which require that persons who have received training)

in espionage service of a foreign country shall register with

the Attorney General.

REG- 6

435/0

15 ₴

on 21/21/60 the Department rendered an apinion that

once an individual had been excepted from registration he could

nots

thereafter, be required to register has the some actluftion

BY COURIER SUC

8.1 DEC

SEE. VOTE CONTINUED PAGE

D2022

HOWN COMM - FBL

CULT

Ingram

Gandy

08 DEC 201961

TELETYPE UNIT

REU

1 pas SEC

NW 50953

Doc1d:32338079

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRE

Director

BECKEL

Central Intélligence Agency (Su)

NOLE CONTINUED:

subject is of no further value to us.

Regarding such an

individual, our policy has been to refer pertinent focts

concerning him to the department once the necessity for

concealing his identity hod expired.

We turned sybject over to cIA dna since 10/1/61

he has been employed in a covert capacity by that Agency. (S

sy airecting above letter to CIA, we are putting that s

Agency on notice that any responsibility for exception

provisions of the Registration Act now

OF (5)

Letter is classified "Top Secret" since it concerns

o double agent operation of CIA and sets out agentes identity.

(U)

SECRET 19. WdEE 9 12030

I83

7 W0тY 1V 0.930

2EC

SOP SEC

HW 50953

DocId: 32338079 Page 3

---

