(124-10302-10233]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/3/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: | FBI
: RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10302-10233
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 2-1499-21
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: ERRION, THOMAS H.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE: 04/06/1959
PAGES : 17
SUBJECTS :
FS, TRA, ASSOC, ARREST, SMUGGLING, WEAPONS, CUBA,
PRO-CASTRO, GAMBLING ACT, GUTIERREZ, VICTOR, INTV
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: — 1A; 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : INC RIS, S/S.

v9

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 1


"he 2-192

s

MIAMI:

va subject.

“Mexico City, by/Mr
i letter to the Dir

@ ee

tit. (igexteryg-257) >
“3h ere fGer e211 326 att boele,

st. LOUIS: (INFORMATION)

{ WASHINGTON. FIELD OFFICE:

y AT WASHINGTON, D.C.

2 Washington Field
a the Foreign Agents Registra
h Division, United States Department of Justice, and

ascertain whether or not the subject appears registered
as the agent of a foreign principal.

A AT MIAMI, FLORIDA :
Will follow and report the activities of the

TA

ADMINISTRATIVE

oRstent report is classified secret in view
Ohne fac at it contains information furnished vapid T-2)
in Mexico, | the disclosure of which might prejudic

eration of an intelligence service in a foreign country]

A.

”

Ee one copy of instant report is being furnished
st. Louis in view of pending investigation there.

S725

Office is requested to checit :
tion Section, Internal Security

Information from the American Vice Consul
BERNARD FEMMINELLA, Santiago de Cuba, was furnished by
| Legat, Havana, in letter date: 5)
Minformation attributed tol¢
. THOMAS- HAZLETT/
ector dated January 26, 1959

anuary 30, 1959. .
nished to Legat,
r Legat, Mexico

- COVER PAGE -

REVIEWED By Fosrinn USE SOBRE
on 12(25/92 ‘iB

UZ RELEARE U8 fans,
RELEASE #8 pany

O TOTAL Demme,

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 2


; iia
MM 23192
Two additional copies of ‘instant report are
forwarded to the Bureau for transmittal of one. copy each

to the Legat, Havana, and the Legat, Mexico City, for
their information.

INFORMANTS
IDENTITY OF INFORMANT LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION
MM P=1 asf jex PW) | 2192-35
mm _t-2 isfcra(Q $n 192-35
gat letter to ie
Bureau January 26, 1959) oe
MM T-3 is MM 639-3 _ _134-238-Sub A

Careful consideration has been given to éach source
concealed in this report, and "T" symbols have been utilized
only in those instances where identity must be concealed.

z B.
- COVER PAGE -

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 3


MM 2-192

at Uruapan at dawn on November 20, 1958, when they

were discovered endeavoring to send arms to the rebels _
of PIDEL_CASTRO_RUZ in Cuba. The article listed the
“following as having been arrested:

segerrneetepme Cy

: : 3 vee
ccenipeamniuas = OE
PEDRO LUIS \DIAZ}LANZ : ek
FRANK PIORINT © - | M

| ARMANDOV# cova mee NC
f ROBERTO/MILLARTE :

,
The article concludes by stating that a North
American, FRANK FYORINI, the "pilot of the airplane",
and the Cuban, PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, had requested
permission to be interviewed with an attorn y, present,
and that this request had been granted, (i

MM T-2, another government agency which -
conducts intelligence investigations, on Jai
1959, advised jthat INK FIORINI, PEDRO LUISVHraz\VEANZ ana
RICARDO DE LAVLORIBABALS had arrived in Mexido cit.
on October 2' 1958 after having traveled from the :
\o Miami, Flox: » area by automobile and having encountered
Uvuaieeiearee with Mexican Immigration authorities upon )
av entering Mexico. MM T-2 did not know their Mexican ia —

port of entry, but stated that they had been in

Monterrey; therefore, he concluded that they had
cad erossed the border at Brownsville or Laredo, exas,

and that they must have entered Mexico October 3 25

or October 26, 1958. Following the arrival of the
trio in Mexico City, DIAZ LANZ and’ DE LA LORIE proceeded
by air to Venezuela, returning about October 31, 1958.
Shortly thereafter, they again left Mexico City by
air enroute to San Prancisco, California.

pref arcars ear u)

DEcistons Ge 2,3) UPRELO Bot

Dow seenoen ree. &/25/86 Ure .

(Ife - (e449 257) i
$Ao.0ee [ee —"au,326 <4 Go

\ ae a

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 4


roo

Fie)

MM 2-192

Meanwhile, on November 4, 1958, FIORINI
departed from Mexico City in the automobile, and. is
reported to have met DIAZ LANZ and DE LA LORIE at
Yuma, Arizona. : & u

On November 8, 1958, they were at the.
- Highway House Motel at Phoenix, Arizona. MM T-2
believed that from Phoenix they proceeded to Kingman,
Arizona, where they made the purchase of a Cc-46
airplane which had been U. S. Government surplus, and
which was purchased and registered in FIORINI's name, :
even though it is presumed that the funds were provided
by the two Cubans. uj

airplane to Veracruz and Aeapules, Mexico, before

From Phoenix, Arizona, the group flew the
proceeding to Apatzingan. -

4 OU “)

T-2 said that] the best of his knowledge, 4]
after being detained for Beveral days, all subjects
and the airplane were released. Fhe)

[on January 7, 1959, MM T-2 said that. from

October 27, 1958, until November 4, 1958, FIORINI was

registered at the Bel Sol Apartments in Mexico City

and gave his U. S. address as being 422.Glen Ridge Road,

Key Biscayne, Florida. He also was registered at

the Hotel Statler in Mexico City, and rte his U. S.
ddress as being 310 Northeast 5th str Fort :
uderdale, Florida. MM T-2 stated-th: recent BO ()

1awspaper article in the Mexico City a: oon paper,

"ULtimas Noticias", had <¢pntained 4 photograph of f

FRANK FIORINI standing on some of the graves of

BATISTA followers-who had been executed by the

triumphant FIDEL CASTRO RUZ revolutionaries.

i. 8!

a

(uy
On January 20, 1959, Vice Consul BERNARD
FEMMINELLA of the U. S. Consulate, Santiago de Cuba,
advised that he was informed that an individual known
as FRANK FIORINI was with the revolutionary forces in
the vicinity of Santiago de Cuba.

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 5


L

MM 2-192

ST, LOUIS: (INFORMATION) piled
One copy of instant report is being furnished
St. Louis-in view of pending investigation there.

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE: anne

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.

Washington Field Office is requésted to check
the Foreign Agents Registration Section, Internal Secufity
Division, United States Department of Justice, and
ascertain whether or not the subject appears registered
as the agent of a foreign. principal.

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will follow and report the activities of the
subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

netant report is classified secret in vigw lof
he fact at it contains information furnished wy fealh ‘MM T-2)

Of Mexico,{ the. disclosure of which might prejudice’ S,
peration of an intelligence service in a foreign country 2)

Information from the American Vice Consul
. BERNARD FEMMINELLA, Santiago de Cuba, was furnished by ,
gat, Havana, in letter date anuary 30, 1959.
Ygnforaet ion attributed to(CIA[Was fyrnished to Legat,
lexico City, by/{Mr. THOMAS ZLETT|sér Legat, Mexico

letter to the Director dated Janudry 26, 19597]

Ay
Peeriousfe - COVER PAGE -
Distress “UF
UR. C10 ~teye-257
SPoe7i Jace. ~211,326~" palo :

Confidential

‘ Ro)

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 6


Le an

MM 2-192

*. Confidential
Two: additional copies of instant report are
forwarded to the Bureau for transmittal of one copy each
to the Legat, Havana, and the Legat, Mexico City, for
their information. .

INFORMANTS.
TDENTITY OF INFORMANT | LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

MM T=2 ees iS) 2198-35
ule) Br19235

‘Legat Le t )

ureau, January 26,1959)

MM T=3 is. MM 639=s 134-238-sub a ||

Careful consideration has beén given to each source

concealed in this.report, and "I" symbols have been utilized
only in those instances where identity must be concealed.

c' {
(pli faeem see)
ue ge /646. 287)
Peace Ger #21, 326 ~ Hhelee

B.
~. COVER. PAGE -

Confidential

La cy

HW 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 7
