424-10268-10399] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10268-10399
RECORD SERIES: MM
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 89-35-257
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 01/17/1964
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS :
SEE FBI 62-109060-2272
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.4

APPROVAL OF CIA.

INC A/T, LHM

| NW 52333 DocId:32197558 Page 1


Oo >
SEC RET

2h 1/17/64
steed
books
ra CIA HAS WO OBJECTION YO.
nomen, GELSFOUTONEORTARER DFO OR
EXO! #7 WHERE SHOWS UF Cia INFORMATION

ecEWISE we IN THIS DOCUMERT, hee elf)
: Bixector, ar 463+i99060) mare
Ceram: sac, Miami{ (89-35) (®) |

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F, KENNEDY, S-13-93
11/22/63, Dallas, Texas. Siassitied wy L003 Ld, heat |

MISCELLANEOUS + INFORMATION CONCERNING Excoodly ex O48r Cz 4, ic)

: Enclosed for the Bureau are the original
and five copies of a LHM concerning JOHN ROBERT
KINDER.

One copy of the LHM is enclosed for the
Dallas Office.

One copy of the LHM has been disseminated to
Secret Service, Miami.

For the infomation of the Bureau and Dallas,
Mrs. KLINNER alse advised that JOHN KLINNER on numexous
occasions told her that he had been associated with CIA.
On 1/14/64,[GORDON ROTHWELL | GIA (covert - protect), advised ©
CIA has no interest whatsoever dn KLINRER.

JOHN KLINNER will be eer and interviewed
by the Miami Office.

3 = Bureau (Encis. 6) (AM) a
Ay: Pallas Gnel. 1) (4M) ?
~ ham (1105-8342) Ask Ww
\ FPG: .

@) he

hw §2333 Docld:32197558 Page 2 et
