124-10200-10172|

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/26/201

Identification Form

AGENCY :
Hl RECORD NUMBER :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10200-10172

HQ

97-3602-4TH NR 14

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

CIA :
DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PLAN
DIRECTOR, FBI

02/25/1959
2

AHH, ASSOC, BANKING TRANSACTIONS, PRO-CASTRO ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

04/29/1999

APPROVAL OF CIA

vod

HW 50953 Docld:32288896 Page 1


NS
TIA HAS BO NX
TO: Direc tor DEES on
Peceral Bureau of Investigation FEI faye TON ieeeeeen
Attention: Mr. S, J. Papich i x 7 7
; IN This BUSuIMENT. MEH Ah
: PROM: Deputy Director, Plans (ht KS StuiTILEd. ne
SUBJECT: U.S. Banking Transactions by macette serene, a
friend of former President Ratista of Guba ie t ia
we “XN
z
The following information was furnished by ancther of a
this Agency. The source of the informatizn i "
" a. On 5 and 9 December 1958 Marcelino GARCIA eltran, a
. representative of the Mabay Sugar Central, and a close me |
\ friend of Fulgencio BATISTA Zaldivar, former President ‘ ase
AN of Cuba, cashed four checks totaling more ticsn $125,0 ed
\ (United States dollars), ey |
\ LS 5
\ be The two checks presented by GARCY Decenber

were drawn to the order of Alber .
and endorsed by him to GARCIA BeltFan. RF:
Francisco Sugar Company, New York, whic:.\ guaranteed the
signatures. Payment, which was requestdd and made, in jis
$100 bills, totaled between $53,000 aug 000. inl ZZ. id
currency. “12 NOT REG

‘D
a 1g4 WAR 9 i359
On 8 December GARCIA Beltran presented two more checks,

totaling $75,000 (United States currency). These checks

were drawn by International Weighers, Inc., 110 Wall Street, ‘
New York. Inasmuch as credits to this account had not
Gleared, GARCIA was told to return to the bank for the money
on the afternoon of 9 December The latter returned to the
bank at the stated time and was ‘paid $75,000 in $100 bills.
Marcelino GARCIA was the payee i these checks.

csel= fos, one
_esed=

"Oc aad REV LU THOWARY Aereve rv es

oy

Mrs L09-u Be 17/7
100 Ay G& o-7 :
7 oe

Ata Kernar, Cen.
Cnfe

benaliteiae phe moe wre

HW 50953 Docld:32288896 Page 2
