124-90158-10023) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90158-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER CR 105-137428-25

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI

FROM: MX
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE 09/23/1969
PAGES 3

SUBJECTS :
LUIS POSADA
ROLANDO ARCADIO ESPARZA HERNANDEZ
DOCUMENT TYPE: — PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B.
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1 8
_ NW 50953 DocId:32340366 Page 1


‘OFTONAL FORM NO. 10
may oe eoiton
GSA Hmm (4 CFR) 1111.6

UNITED ‘STAI. ) GOVERNMENT

yy Memorandum - ; oa
‘SECRET
TO a D-2uCTOR, FBI (105-137428) DATE: 9-23-69
{

moi cer, MEXICO (105-5161) SY 4)

: oe x
suBJECT: ROLANDO ARCADIO ESPARZA HERNANDEZ
IS - CUBA

Re Los Angeles let and LHM 8-16-68,

By memorandum classified SECRET dated 9-8-69,
cra [Station in Mexico Citymade available the following
information which was recéived from a sensitive and usually
reliable source. They stated: "THIS INFORMATION IS FROM AQ
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE 2
OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE:
ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO."
information follows: ¥éf)

In mid-August, 1969}
used the address of ‘Arcadio’
Beverly Drive, Los angeles nia,
‘address 623°1/2 Laveta Terr. ,° Los Angeles, California,

was in contact with the Cuban Consulate in Mexico Wore

u
The Subject’ claimed to have visited the Consu. d$
during February. or March, 1966. He also visited the
Cuban Consulates in Veracruz, Veracruz, Mexico, where
he met LU S{POSADA, Cuban Consul from Tampico, Tamaulipas,
Mexico. At. %hat time he wanted to return to Cuba, but
“fOr réasons beyond his control he was unable to do 8° FNG)(u)

The Subject stated that now more than two years
have passed and:he realizes that his presence in the
United States-has no meaning, He therefore desires a
visa to return to his beloved homeland, His Cuban
passport, No, 40263, has expired and he wishes to have

onewed EINCS)(u) REC-123

;  &- ay

sdn Section)! ‘ 188
Angeles, 105-17eaa}e fo 9

G

amr
no, EN

larly on the Payroll Savings Plan Lo a i /. 3 T# 2

ei Sepeseasseaistey ee ae isanstesiit = nebenesessan

HW 50953 DocId:32340366 Page 2
