124-90110-10071 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/2/2015
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90110-10071
HQ

CR 105-114623-6

Document Information
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA
HQ

03/29/1963
1

FRANC PECAR
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

08/06/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

vol

| NW 50953 DocId:32334078 Page 1


RE te O/B

(i) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENGt

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

29 MAR 1953
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director a
Federal Bureau of Investigation ae vv
“Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich 4 NTO.
; 0} LABSINCATION ANDIOR, *
SUBIECT: [rrond aman TA SF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, exer Banelecrs
KP S-ab-9
1, Reference is made to our memorandum number CSCI-3/773, 057, Sib sh
subject as above, dated 10 October 1962. ( i
et Sr B0-8 |
2, Josephk MEROLA, 2018 North Bay Road, Miami Beach, Florida, . TEI)
has advised fépresentatives of another of! office of this Ag Agency that “he j

learned from contacts in ‘New York that (fmu) PECAR, a Yugoslav trade
official in the U. S,, is being recalled to Yugoslavia and wishes to
remain in the’U., S, According to MEROLA, PECAR will visit Miami from
12 to 19 April 1963.

3. While MEROLA has an unsavory background, the representative
who spoke with him is inclined to believe that he was telling the
truth in this instance, MEROLA claimed that he has also informed the
U. S, District Attorney of the above development.

"i, It seems probable that (fmu) PECAR is identical with the
subject of referenced memorandum, who was assigned to New York in late

1962 as in INTERTRADE representative.
» 5. We would appreciate receiving any information available to 7
your Bureau concerning PECAR's alleged desire to remain in the U. S,
6. If the above information is true, this Agency may wish to

consider the desirability of contacting eo in an effort to persuade
hin $

POR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

L thos

ay

Kee.

thy
ke. yee!
Ne 68

SS RE te

2
VE

‘S ANGLETON |
nec. 14 [0M OIA Os

|

|

T

50953 Docld:32334078 Page 2
