# 124-10278-10391

## Page 1

124-10278-10391

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10278-10391

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-72

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/28/1963

"PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, OBA, BOATS, AIRPLANE, MIL ACT, RAID,

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, MEMO, LHM

49.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32301556

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i Farigo 2

1 • Liaison

1 - Nasca

(NI)

97-4474

9.20.97 dat

January 2, 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

IJ HELEASE IN PART

MOVE NO INSURRECIONAL

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

2/18195 SPEMAC GAT

Classified by SF6 OTA/ECL

Declassify on: OADA9/61/85

(JFK)

Previous Ipformation has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization vas planning to carry

out 'a bombing rald over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahama

Islands. The alsplane scheduled to be used in the said

was located at the Broward International Alrport,

Fort lauderdale, Floride, and two boats were scheduled

to be used in the operation.

On December 26, 1963, our source in this matter

wino has furnished rellable information in the past identified

the airplone to be used in the raid as a Piper Aztec,

Number 4811-P, and indicated that the final practice f11g

had been scheduled for that day. In addition, our source

learned that one of the boats to be used in this operation

was scheduled to leave Miant, Florida, between 5:30 p.m.

and 6100 p.I., December 27, 1963, for Bimini with the crew

for the airplane and the bombs atoard.

r

On December 27, 1963, our source advised that the

operation had been postponed until December 28, 1963, and

that an 18-foot boat and a 28-foot boat would be ased.

28-foot boat was identified as the "Ebb Tidel and the

Bureau of Customs in Miant made plans to seize the boats

to prevent the raid.

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

The Federal Avlation Agency in Miami on December 28,

Tolson -

1963, advised that the above-mentioned Piper Aztec airplane

Belmont -

piloted by Willian I. Scherar took off from Broward

dobr

Заврег -

International Alrport that day headed for Bimini. The

Conrad

Bureau of Customs In Miani advised that the two boats

JeLoach -

Svans -

mentioned above were seized by Customs representatives on

iale

the evening.of December 28, 1963, at a rendezvous point off

losen -

ullivan -

the Florida coast. Four bombs were found aboard the boats.

'aved

rotter

_VHN :klw (17)

ele, Hoom c

olmes

andy

MAIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

97-4474-12

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

SECRET: an

ENCLÖSURE

50953

DocId:32301556

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

121181500

1 - Nasca

RECENT) 97-4474

2X-102

S

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

From:

ALL INFORMATIÓN CONTAINED

January 2, 1964

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIEO

Director

DATE 9/1/85

BY SPABIA/GCL

Bureau of Intelligence and Research

Department of State

John Edgar Hoover, Director

NEVOLUCIONARIO

2-19.98

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

CIASSIFIED BY SLUS DESPISED MATTERS

2/21/95

Sp$ mACIGAT

(JFK

on do not to be teter don been

HOFK)

1963, with enclosure.

Attached is the original of a memorandum dated

January 2, 1964. A copy of this menorandun is attached

for each of the other recipients.

6 JANE

COMM - ESI

This will confirm the information set forth in

paragraph two of the enclosure which we

s orally furnished

to at. Guy Drennan, Lepartnent of state

Mr. [oward Beaubien

(s/u)

centrat intelligence Agency, Major h. B. Nelson, Defense

Intelligence Agency; Mr. Lester Johnson, Bureau of Customs;

Mr. Robert Lally, Federal. Aviation Agency; and Mr. James

Weldon, Internal

Security Division, Department of Justice,

by Mr. A. J. Decker of this Bureau on December 26, 1963-

Tolson

Belmont

Motel

Caspec

Callahan

Conradi

DeLoachi

Busts

cals

u liven

tetter

andy

This will confirm the information set forth in

BEE

sparegraph three of the enclosure which was orally furnished

§to ME. N. Powera, Department of State

Car. N. Balish,

and Mir. W.

B. MitTer, Defense

• inte-ligence Agency, by Mr. J. J. Meehan of this Bureau,

and to Mr. Johnson, Bureau of Customs? Mr-Lally, Federal

Aviation Agency: and Mir. Weldon of the Department of Justice

by Nr. l. J. Mclonnell also of this

bureau.

The oral

paracios of tits date vas made son Areas 2eo 1903,

MATE ROOKLA

TELETYPE UNIT L

Kenne wew.

NW 50953

DoeId:32301556

Page 3

---

## Page 4

(NI) 97-4474

ALL INFORATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASS LFLED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

SAT

RPYIVED BY EBWIFK TASK FORCE

9.20.92 dat

1, 31OE IN FULL

ED RELEASE IN PART

° MOVIN ENTO INSURRECIONAL

LE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

1 - Liaison

1 ~ Nasca

January 2, 1964

211895 SpS mAC GAT

Classified by SeE BTAIECL

Declassify on: OADR9/41/85

(JFK)

Previous information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization was planning to carry

out a bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahama

Islands. The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid

was located at the Broward International Airport,

Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and two boats were scheduled

to be used in the operation.

On December 26, 1963, our source in this mattere

who has furnished rellable information in the past identi

the airplane to be used in the raid as a Piper Aztec,

Number 4811-P, and indicated that the final prectice fligh

had been scheduled for that day. In addition, our source

learned that one of the boats to be used in this operation

was scheduled to leave Miani, Florida, between 5:30 p.m.

and 6:00 p.m., December 27, 1963, for Bimini with the crew

for the airplane and the bombs aloard.

228812

ed

RELEASE ATTa

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEA

On December 27, 1963, our source advised that the

operation had been postponed until December 20, 1963, and

that an 18-toot boat and a 28-foot boat would be used.

The

28-foot boat was identified as the "Ebb Tide" and the

Bureau of Custons in Miani made plans to seize the boats

to prevent the raid.

The Federal Avlation Agency in Miami on December 28,

Tolson:

1963, advised that the above-mentioned Piper Aztec airplane

3e lmont

piloted by William T. Scherar took off from Browerd

Kohri

International Airport that day headed for Bimini. The

allahan Bureau of Customs in Miami advised that the two boats

Selach mentioned above were seized by Custons representatives on

Trans

late

the evening of December 28, 1963, at a rendezvous point off

Will VaTit

the Florida coast. Four bombs were found aboard the boats.

Over

rotter

_ VHN: klw (17)

ale. Goom

clines

7-44

SEE NOTE PACE TWO

andy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

ENCLOSURE

72

(SECRET.

vin

MW 90953 DoeId:32301556

Page 1

---

## Page 5

$59868

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

The Bureau of Customs in Miami subsequently advised

that the boats were seized about three and one half miles east

of South Miami Beach. The following individuals were aboard:

Cervello Cutlerrez y Concepcion, Jesus Sanchez Martinez,

Francisco Hernandez: y Fernandez, Daniel Orlando Remirez, and

Evello Alpizar Perez.

Except for Hernandez and Alpizar all of the men had

been recently discharged from the U. S, Army at Fort Jackson,

South Carolina. All except Alpizar admitted being members of

the captioned organization.

NOTE:

original to State, copies to CiA, Army, Navy,

Air Force, DIA, Customs, INS, FAA, Coast Guard, Yeagley. Copies

separately being furnished John Crimmins, Coordinator Cuban

Affairs, Department of State, by Courier Service and Stott. /

Copy furnished Situation Room, White House, by liaison confirming

data orally furnished Mr. John Guion on 12/28/63 by SA J. J. Meehan.

SECRET?

98-10220

HH 50953 DocId: 32301556 Page 5

---

## Page 6

5-213 (1-10-61)

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date 12-28-63

Attached deals with planned anti-

Castro bombing raid over Cuba to be

carried out from Bimini, Bahama

Islands (British territory). It is

now scheduled for 12-28-63. Through

our informant, Alpizar, bombing

crew pilot, we have identified

plane and

boats to be utilized.

We have detailed plans concerning

route and rendezvous points and

Miami has alerted Customs. Customs

will exercise seizure powers to

prevent raid. We have disseminated

pertinent information in attached

telephonically to Customs, PAAy

Department, State, CIA, Defense

Intelligence Agene

Situati INFORMA

JJM

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 91/85

BYSPOBJAIGCL

1H 50953 DoId: 32301556

Page 6

---

## Page 7

2113(1-10-511

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Dã1o-12-28-63

Attached deals with planned anti-

Castro bombing raid over Cuba to be

car mod out from Bimini, Bahama

Islands (British territory). It is

now scheduled for 12-28-63. Through

our informant

Alpizar, bombing

crew pilot, we have identified

plane and

2 boats to be utilized.

We have detailed plans concerning

route and rendezvous points and

aani has alerted Customs. Customs

will exercise seizure powers to

prevent raid.

We have disseminated

pertinent information in attached

colephonically to Customs, FAA,

Department, Stare, CiA, Derense

SituREL INFORMATION CONTAINED(JAK)

JIN HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9/11/85

BYSABIA/GiCL

HM 50953

DooId:32301556

Page 7

---

## Page 8

(SECRE

DEC 28 1963

TELETYPE

*7 Joha

Mr.

RGENT

12-28-63

4-27 AM

EST

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 197-44741

FROM SAC, MIAMI: /105-28551

Mr. Rosen.

My Sat/an

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Mies Gandy.

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUC IONARTI

[MIRR| PAREN, IS BESH CUBA, AM.

NEUTRALiTY MATTER

RE MIAMI TEL DECEMBER THE 34349HRR.

CONTAYNED

IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOW!

BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL BY SUPERVISOR ANDREW J. DECKER

19602

TO MIAMI

DECEMBER FWENHYOEVEN 5T

XTYPHREE.

1963

AT FEN PHERTY AM DECEMBER TWENTISEVIN STATYTAREE EVELIO

ALPIZAR PEREZ (PROTECT/ ADVISED THAT EARLIER SAME DAY, DOCTOR

ORLANDO

„BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR SHOWED ALPIZAR AN EIGHTEEN

BOAT,

FL AIVE ONE ONE SEVEN FOUR, WITH PORTY HORSEPOWER

OUTBOARA

MOTOR LOCATED ON CANAL AT ONE ONE SIX ZERO NORTH

AWEST

REMIX AVENGE ROAD, MIAMI, WHICH WILL BE USED ON THIS

PERATION.

O3DR

BOSCH TOLD ALPIZAR TO MEET HIM AT THRZE PM DECEMBER

2/17/95

classified by -h

27

§ TWENTYSEVEN FOR FINAL INSTRUCTIONS, HOWEVER, WHEN THIS MEETING

TOOK PLACE BOSCH ANNOUNCED HE HAD POSTPHONED THIS OPERATION

12/28/63

UNTIL TWELVE TWENTY

TY IREE.

1o)

TE RE62 97-4474-72

5 JAN 9 1964

164

SECRETI

NW 50953

DoeId: 32301556. Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRED

PAGE TWO

10

27

AT TEN PM DECEMBER FWENTYSEVEN ALPIZAR REPORTED

7

THAT HE ACCOMPANIED BOSCH AT SEVEN PM SAME DAY TO THE

THENTYEICHT FOOT BIG BOAT WHICH WILL BE USED THIS OPERATION.

WILLIAM JOHNSON WHO WAS ABOARD THIS BOAT AT BAKER-S HAULOVER

DOCKS BRIEFED ALPIZAR ON BOATS MOTOR, RADIO, AND OPERATION

THIS BOAT IS THE QUOTE"

EBB TIDE "END QUOTE WHICH IS UNDER

TWENTYFOUR HOUR SURVILIENCE BY US CUSTOMS.

BOSCH UNFOLDED TO ALPIZAR FOLLOWING PLAN OF ACTION

RELATING TO SCHEDULED BOMBING RAID OF OIL REFINERY AT

NUEVITAS, CUBA, FROM BIMINI, BAHAMA ISLANDS, AT ELEVEN AM

DECEMBER FUENTESCH TYPIREE. BOSCH WILL ACCOMPANY

ALPIZAR TO THE ESTEEN FOOT FL

FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN DACH H

AND ALPIZAR WILL PROCEED ALONE IN BOAT DOWN MIAMI RIVER

TO A SPECIFIC POINT WHERE HE WILL PICK UP A

YOUNG CUBAN

WOMAN, IDENTITY UNKNOWN® TOGETHER THEY WILL PROCEED TO A

SPECIFIC POINT OFFSHORE OF MIAMI BEACH NEAR GOVERNMENT

CUTS THEY WILL FISH UNTIL ABOUT FIVE PM WHEN THEY WILL

PROCEED TO A SPECIFIC POINT NEAR BY ISOLATED NORTH SHORE

SECRET.

584 :

NW 50953

DocId: 32301556 Page 9:

÷o!"

---

## Page 10

'SECRET

PAGE THREE

OF VIRGINIA KEY WHERE THEY WILL MEET SEVERAL CUBANS INCLUDING

DR. BOSCH AND DANIEL ORLANDO RAMIREZ, BOMB EXPERT.

FIFTY POUND BOMBS WILL BE LOADED IN THE BOAT. THE GIRL AND

DR. BOSCH WILL REMAIN ON SHORE. ALPIZAR, RAMIREZ, AND

ANOTHER CUBAN, IDENTITY UNKNOWN, WILL PROCEED IN EIGHTEEN

FOOT BOAT WITH THE BOMBS TO RENDEVOUS POINT NEAR THE LAST

BUOY DESIGNATED AS QUOTE "BELL TWO A BASH DASH FL DASH R"

END QUOTE LOCATED OFF GOVERNMENT CUT CHANNEL•

HERE THEY WILL MEET THE QUOTE"D

IBB TIDE"END QUOTE

FiRST NAME UNKNOWN

SKIPPERED BY CUBAN CAPTAIN FHY HERNANDEZ WHO IS SCHEDULED

TO NAVE DEPARTED FROM BAKER-S HAULOVER AT FINEE PM SAME DAY

ALONE TO FISH•

EACH BOAT WILL SIGNAL THREE TIMES WITH FLASHLIGHT IN

APPROACHING THIS RENDEVOUS: AFTER BOMBS AND CREW OF SMALL

BOAT TRANSFER TO THE TWEWTYEROHT FOOT BOAT THE LATTER WILL

PROCEED IN A NINETYFIVE DEGREE COURSE TOWARD BIMINI, TOWING

SMALL BOAT• ALPIZAR WILL BE IN COMMAND OF OPERATION FROM

THIS POINT ON. •

SECRET

1132"

car 121005

NW 50953

DocId: 32301556 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRETI

PAGE FOUR

ABOVE FACTS IMMEDIATELY FURNISHED IN DETAIL TO US

CUSTOMS, MIAMI, WHICH IS COORDINATING ITS ACTIVITIES WITH

US COAST GUARD TO SEIZE BOTH BOATS AFTER THER BOMBS ARE

LOADED ABOARD THE LARGER ONE. CUSTOMS ALSO PLANS TO SEIZE

8

THE PIPER AZTEC PLANE, N FOUR EIGHT GNE ONE P, UPON

ITS RETURN TO BROWARD COUNTY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT FROM

BIMINI, THIS PLANE IS SCHEDULED TO DEPART BROWARD AIRPORT

DECEMBER THEME ON SIXTYTHREE FOR BIMINI PURSUANT TO

BOSCH-S ORIGINAL PLAN IN THIS CASE.

WITH REFERENCE BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS MIAMI MAINTAINING

CLOSE LIASON WITH CUSTONS AND AFRANCEMENTS RAVE BEEN MADE

TO IMMEDIATELY INTERVIEW INDIVIDUALS PICKED UP BY CUSTOMS

AT TIME OF SEISURE OF BOATS AND WILL ALSO INTERVIEW

BOSCH, WILLIAM JOHNSON, AND OTHERS IMPLICATED FOR POSSIBLE

VIOLATION NEUTRALITY STATUS. MIAMI WILL OBTAIN SIGNED

STATEMENTS WHENEVER POSSIBLE. ALL POSSIBLE CAUTIONS

BEING TAKEN TO PROTECT SECURITY ALPIZAR.

MIAMI WILL TELEPHONICALLY NOTIFY BUREAU RESULTS

AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 443 AM OK FBI WA: US

TU AND DISC

Д.::

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32301556 Page 11.

---

## Page 12

S. DEF

COM

MUNICA

SECTION

DEC 2 8 1963

TELETYPE

12.=

Mez,

De .

Con ad

Bir.

Mr.

Sue se

Ix, Margl

Ma Prota

Tele. Room

Jliss Hohmos.

Miss Gasady-

URGENT

12* 28-63

4-27 AM

EST

LVA

TO DIRECTOR, FAS /STRATA

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-2853/

4 PE

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARID PAREN

MIRR PAREN, IS DASH CUBA MM.

Epiterve

RE MIAMI TIL DECEMBER TVENTYSIX SIXTYTHREE,

BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL BY SUPERVISOR ANDREM SA DECKER

TO HIARI DECEMBER TVENTYSEVEN SIXTITHREE.

: AT TEN THIRTY AM DECEUBER TUENTYSEVÉN SIXTYTIREE EVELIO

ALPIZAR PEREZ /PROTECT/ ADVISED THAT EARLIER SAME DAY, DOCTOR

ORLANDO DOSCR AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR SHOUED ALPIZAR AN EIGHTEEN

FOOT SOAT, FL FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN FOUR, WITH FORTY HORSEPOUER

OUTBOARD MOTOR LOCATED ON CANAL. AT ONE ONE SIX ZERO NORTH

WEST TWENTYSIX AVENUE ROAD, BLAMI, WHICH WILL BE USED ON THIS

OPERATION

BOSCH TOLD ALPIZAR TO MEDT HIM AT THREE PM DECEMBER

TUENTYSEVEN FOR FINAL TUSTRUCTIONS, ROWEVER UREN THIS HEETING

TOOK PLACE BOSCH ANNOUNCED HE HAD POSTPHONED THIS OPERATION

INTIL TUELVE INENTYEIGHT SIXTYTHREE.

. is

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 91

BY S0364

SOXMACK AT

(FK)

IN 50953 DocId:32301556 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PAGE TWO

AT TEN PA DECEABER TUENTYSEVEN ALPIZAR REPORTED

THAT HE ACCOMPANIED BOSCH AT SEVEN PA SAME DAY TO THE

TVENTYLIGHT FOOT BIE BOAT WITCH WILL BE USED THIS OPERATION.

• WILLIAN JOHNSON WHO VAS ABOARD THIS BOAT AT BAKER-S HAULOVER

DOCKS BRIEFED ALPIZAR ON BOATS MOTOR, RADIO, AND OPERATION

THIS BOAT IS THE QUOTE EBB TIDE END QUOTE WHICH IS UNDER

TWENTYFOUR HOUR SURVILIENCE BY US CUSTORS+

BOSCH UNFOLDED TO ALPIZAR FOLLOWING PLAN OF ACTION

RELATING TO SCHEDULED BOMBING RAID OF OIL REFINERY AT

NUEVITAS, CUBA, FROM BIMINI, BAHAMÀ ISLANDS, AT ELEVEN AM

DECEVER TUENTVEIGNI SIXTYTHRÉE, BOSCH WILL ACCOMPANY

ALPIZAR TO THE EIGHTEEN 700T FL FIVE ONE ONE SEVEN DASH M

AND ALPIZAR WILL PROCEED ALONE IN BOAT DOUN MIAMI RIVER

TO A SPECIFIC POINT WHERE HE WILL PICK UP A YOUNG CUBAN

WOMAN, IDENTITY UNKNOWN, TOCETHER THEY WILL PROCEED TO A

SPECIFIC POINT OFFSHORE QI MIAMI BEACH NEAR GOVERNUENT

CUT THEY WILL FISH UNTIL ABOUT FIVE PM WHEN THEY WILL

•PROCEED TO A SPECIFIC POINT NEAR BY ISOLATED NORTH SHORE

HW 50953

DocId: 32301556 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE FOUR

ABOVE FACTS INMEDIATELY FURNISHED IN DETAIL TO US

CaSTOS, MIAMI, WHICH IS EOORDINATING ITS ACTIVITIES WITH

US COASI GUARD TO SEIZE BOTH BOATS AFTER THER BOMBS ARE

LOADED ABOARD THE LARGER ONE* CUSTONS ALSO PLANS TO SEIZE

THE PIPER AZTEC PLANE, N FOUR EIGHT ONE ONE PO UPON

ITS RETURN TO BROWARD COUNTY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT FROM

BIMINI, THIS PLANE IS SCHEDULED

TO DEPART BROWARD AIRPORT

DECEMBER TWENTVEIGHT SIXTYTHREE FOR BIMINI PURSUANT TO

BOSCH-S ORIGINAL PLAN IN THIS CASE,

WITH REFERENCE BURKAU INSTRUCTIONS MIAMI MAINTAINING

CLOSE LIASON WITH CUSTOMS AND ARRANCEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE

TO IMMEDIATELY INTERVIEW INDIVIDUALS PICKED UP BY CUSTOMS

AT TIME OF SEISURE OF BOATS AND VILL ALSO INTERVIEN

BOSCH WILLIAM JOHNSON, AND OTHERS IMPLICATED FOR POSSIBLE

VIOLATION NEUTRALITY STATUS MIAMI WILL OBTAIN SIGNED

STATEMENTS WHENEVER POSSIBLE, ALL POSSIBLE CAUTIONS

BEING TAKEN TO PROTECT SECURITY ALPIZAR,

MIAMI WILL TELEPRONICALLY NOTITY BUREAU RESULTS

AS SOON AS POSSIBL

END AND ACK PLS

HA 4-43 AM OK FBI WA J$

TU AND DISC

NW 50953

DocId: 32301556. Page 15

---

