# 124-90137-10178

## Page 1

124-90137-10178

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90137-10178

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83195-76

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 05/12/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

CUBAN SITUATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

V9.1

HH 50953

DocId:32337412 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

00/0R

ViA IMFORMATION

RELEASE OF

THIS DOCUMENT IN CON BRACKE

105-83195

D

0.0

KP

From:

ALL INFORAACION CONCATNES

Subject:

HERATN IS UNULASSIRIED

EXCE? I WIESE SHONA

OTHERVISE

540N20

COPIES MEATESY

FOR REVIEW AT FOING AND/OR DELIVERY

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED

(SEE BUFILE 62-717290)

--- BY LIAISON

May 12, 1961

Director

Central

Pod, RomAn• CiÀ

Intelligence Agency

5/15/61

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans Mik

John Edgar Hoover, Director

CUBAN SITUATION

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Bead

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr -

Belmont.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone -

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

7%.

CO

e

for on?

A reporter for the "New York Journal-American,"

on lay 8, 1961, furnished the following information:

Miami

The reporter stated he had recently been in

Fiorida

many Cuban exiles and personal sources.

covering the Cuban invasion and had spoken

too

As a resuLt.

same to the conclusion that the invasion had been badly

Do s

handled by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) from every

aspect.

He stated that some of the exiles were of the opinion

part of CIA and they are holding CIA responsible.

The reporter stated he was able to ascertain from

sources the names of the ciA personnel allegedly responsibleu

the invasion.

as Bernard Barker

David korales, one Williamson one Caldwell Sone Carranzalshn

Avignon and a

who had been assigned as Air Attache

addition,

at the United States Embassy in the Dominican Republic of

he stated he had heard that

CIA was

also among those responsible.

one Frank Bender

The above-mentioned reporter identified two of his

sources of the foregoing information as forner Colonel Mariano

Faget and Enrique Paraion, who were formerly connected with the

bureau for the Repression of communist Activities (BRAC) in

Cuba.

BRAC waS an

Batista regime. Neported organization in Cuba during the

the reporter checked the above-

mentioned

CIA employees with Faget who apparently maintained

file on the subject.

Faget allegedly verified the information

the reporter had received concerning the part played by these

the pare yed by tacon

1 - L105-89923 (CLI

VHN: bar

(6 DANA D)

¡UNIT

RELSECRE

X-116

MAY 15

NW 50953

Doc1d:32337412

Page 2

---

