124-10214-10253| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10214-10253

HQ

CR 105-131629-32

Document Information

FBI
DIRECTOR, FBI
AG

06/07/1965
5

CC, PLOT, ASSA, CASTRO, FIDEL, CUBAN LEADERS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A

Redact

09/16/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

INC MEMO.

v9.1

HW 50953 Docld:32294977 Page 1


SECRET

Fidel Castro. Cubela is identical wi

z EN L. Cubéla y Secades,.‘who has resigned.
Bee of Cuba and is now practicing medicine
= N Blanco, an employee of the Cuban. Fore:

Fa S¥ suan Almeida Bosque Jare the other leadi:
Boe plot. E

He conferred in Paris for about

Alberto Blanco] whe was then(on. an ‘ing;
assies and Consulates abroad. |: ite ‘le.

is directed toward the assassination of Fide.
brother Raul Castro, Ernesto "Che" Guevar,
in the present Cuban Government, and Rami
of the Cuban Intelligence Service...
individuals is to take place in pub.
1965, when all. the Cuban leaders:

those involved in the plot hepe to sei:
—and call. for Aserican help. Cubela

—with him in this plet desire te know: whether

——United States would help if the plot was. 8

7105-131629

“ico «+ «2+1821 (Espinosa) eee
en ——1_ = 105-77667 (Cubela)

“1 - 105- ~82793) (Sineida) geetamererememtewas

ach
per
lahen
rad

i

on FOB: 58 z a
Gandy (16) wan

Pat 2/629

SEC
wHoowL]_serery Ea pitenepr renee
rECRET ENCLOSURE “Hk

HW 50953 DocId:32294977 Page 2


pice

(SECRET:

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready te give this assistance at
a moment's notice as the pletters may be able to hold the
Government for only a day or two.

He was in Spain for about twenty hours during his
recent trip and in that country he contacted other Cuban
exile: nd learned that a man named]Williamson, who is in
charge of the Central Intelligence AZency Office in Madrid, S)
is aware of this plot. toa certain degree’ fhe Cuban exiles
do not trust Williomsonya d allege he ha: en compromised
by a Cuban.girl nicknamed "Tota’y who was sent. from Havana
to Spain for the specific purpose of getting in contact with
Williamson. 4s)

Ne requested to be put in contact with a representative
of the Central Intelligence Agency whe was thoroughly familiar
with the Cuban situation and knowledge: eoncerning the
individuals involved in the plot. ( Uu

NOTE: . Above information contained in New York teletype
dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,
Neutrality Matters; Internal Security = Ciiba." 7

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved
in a plan to bomb Cuba. Our investigation of this plet,which
was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in
seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be
used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously
contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly
with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders (34)

asfFirst

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney
General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter. ir
Xerox copy being furnished to White House and Director,’ Central ..,

fAimeida Bosquefmay be identical with person serving; u
eputy Ministe? of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces.

u

“SEeEStT

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE
~ Bm
TECREN

HW 50953 Docld:32294977 Page 3

