f124-90092-10008) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90092-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-80750-945

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: [Restricted]

TITLE:

DATE: 05/02/1949
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : LET

v9 5
INW 50953 DocId:32330763 Page 1



a
i
{

COPY: AJH . ease)

FEDERAL BUREAU OP INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Washington, D. C. :
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO . if :
DECLASSE“ATION AND/OR, ° aaa ase
: RELL CIA GFGRMATION PERSONAL AND CONFID)
i IN THIS DOCUMENT. Exeept Jou We
a KP Lange xstialte me

aoe

Tos Glenn H, Bethel .
(The Commissioner Y pee, TSO RATI Ee gap?
pers LEWD 4 2.ciefe
| Soke? RGRE SHORE ate) 1 ve
From: Director, FBI OmRBRHI SB
Subject: YKippointaant of CIA Liaison Representative t Sttanay 3 ‘

Reference is made to your letter dated March 28, 199 wherein
you advise that id received information
tive ing that,dne Central Intelligence Agency desire to place a representa~

tive in [Ottawa \2You requested my comments the Bureau might be able to make
relative to this matter.

As you know, the Bureau, of course, can make no objection +0 the
establishment of such liaison. For your confidential information, information has
been received at the Seat of Goverment reflecting that {Ruch a, CIA liaison repre-
sentative will be placed in anada Mi bhin the next few weeks $Y Officials of CIA
have confidentially advised the Bureau's liaison section that they readily
recognize that it will tgke years to build y close lidison with the

ind related organizati®ns They state, however, tha’ i

they od action Hust be taken in view of CIA's jurisdiction in foreign |
circle : j

, For your further information, it has been ascertgined confidentially
that CIA is presently considering onefSamuel Herman Horton. former Bureau !
Agent and now an empl. of the OffiG@ of Special Operations, CIA, for the position |
is questioned.) florto: tered the Bureau as a Special Agent on January 15, 19)0.
He was assigned“to thé Richmond and Cincinnati Offices and was transferred to
the Seat of Goverment on June 28, 1913. He resigned on December 17, 19h, to
accept a ary with the Office of Strategic Services

ue s 97. Director's Notation:
sf "sey exactly what we learned.
I don't like ‘such "wishy washy"

wel su} filtering pf informtion, Nor is it fair
cK tofBethel fot to let him know of low
JS Ua | opinion

a he is held. Hee

He"

> ; enclosure GA - ¥° Ce

HW 50953 DocId:32330763 Page 2


| SECRET
gr [em H. Bethel BX) cm

This is being brought to you for your attention so that you may be
completely aware of the situation. You should be particularly alert to prevent
being used as a “stepping stone" for CIR or (Hor ton, cA should develop its
own contacts without depending on the exce}lent relationships, already
established between the FBI and [Canadian ficial channels.fonly that
liaison necessary for thé coordination of domestic and foreign matters is
necessary & it should be most circumspect | ’

HW 50953 DocId:32330763 Page 3
