# 124-90138-10034

## Page 1

124-90138-10034

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination Systen

Identification Forn

Date:

Agency Information

4/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10034

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-5-8515

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 07/06/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

NAME CHECKS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953 DocId: 32337765 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CON

- Mr. Myers

TIDE

i by 2303 Rockets

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HERE P 3 UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPI

Jilly 6, 1961

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

PeGgs 326

568S10 GE

BLAINE ROSALIE/GIORNO

/14/95-05K

Born:

Septenher 21, 1843

MAILED

Brooklyn,

New York

+44+555457094795BT

JUL 1 0 1961

NAME CHECK

No investigation pertinent to your inquiry has been

S0014556-1498 (JFK)

conducted

by the iRl concerning the captioned individual.

the files of this Bureau contain the following

Informer ion which say possibly relate to the father of the

subject of your nanc

ame check request.

A confidential infornant who has furnished reliable

BRACIIE7S

information in the past advised that on Novenber &, 1960,

5-18-98

25

Paul Giorno was in contact with Jose Moleon at which time

invited Moleon to his home for dinner on Novemher 13

1960.

Accordiny to the inforant Moleon, Military and Air Attacke,

-Ак

Embassy of Cuba,

Washington,

2. 80,

tentatively accepted the

TION

invitation but

sunrested that Giorno comc

INFORMATION

EXCEPT

the Dabassy to

LASS

Miscuss it furcher on Noveaber 9, 1960.(9

CLA

Another

confidential informant who has furnished

reliable information in the past advised that an

individual

driving a notor

venice registered to lau. biorno

3247 Terrace Drive,

Silver Hill

Kary land,

visited

Embassy, Washington, D. Co, on Novenber 9, 1960. 10

the Cubang

DECLASS

RELEASE 0F:

#N THIS DOCUMENT.

Files of this Dureau

further reveal that a complaint

made by one Michael"

harysand,

on DecemberS,

Parise, 4623 Davis Avenue, Suitlam,

1955,

concerning his nephew

ran. Giorno with whom he was

at one time

in business. Parise

advised that about three months

prior to his complaint he had

received an anonyuous phone call at his hone which he definitely

knew was the voice of Giorio.

The caller stated that he was

Ming to bloy the beads of un carts and his fently

and then

Parise advised that since that time he had

been plagned.

and when it was

answered there was no one at the other ind. It was Parise's

Tolson

Parsons

opinion that

5/5

105-93409

(Belmont.

NOTE: ••.Memo classified confidential in.

Callahan -

ORIG AND

Conrad

Request Received:

DeLoach -

Evans -

FWM: ems

Malone -

Rosen.

Cavel

This document com

Name check form rev father as Paul Giorno, 3247 Terrace

Eins neither recommendations for conclusions, of the FBI.

Frotter

.C. Sullivan

mathe FBI, and is loaned to your agency;

This is in answer to your reques for a the kneel. not to be distributed outside your

ele. Room

arran

idy

56 JUAnfO, 496 FLETYPE UNIT

Drive, Silver Hill, Suitland,

NN 50953

Doc1d: 32337765

Page 2

---

