[124-10500-10008 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

COMMENTS :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10300-10008
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — CR 105-141614-28
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DEVINS, EDWARD J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE: 12/05/1966
PAGES: 24
SUBJECTS :
: [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret
1A; 1B; 1C
Redact

10/14/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

INC RPT

v9.

HW 50953 DocId:32309642 Page 1


ws

~ SECRET.

NY 105-74220

ADMINISTRATIVE (cont'd)

Gispatening officer in charge of supplying troops, and was a
erew member on a plane which dropped supplies on two occasions
to the troops which had landed in the Bay of Pigs. He claimed
to have been in contact with representatives of CIA during the
preparations for the Bay of Pigs invasions]

K0)
An INS source believes that the s(H) may have worked
for CIA, and heard that SACHA VOLMAN, with whom the subject had

been associated, was an agent of the CIA. XW)
CHARLES STERNBERG, Director of the International Rescue

Committee, 460 Park Avenue South, where the subject is employed,
t stated he. knows of the subject's affiliation with a school in
H Costa Rica (INSTITUTO INTER AMERICANO de ESTUDIOS POLITICOS)
and with SACHA VOLMAN,gand strongly believes that both were CIA
' sponsored A(X uv) eile \

cra aIso advised that,the subject is not an employge
of the Labor Resegéch Institut: The subject claims to have ut)
been employed there from May, 64-April, 1965.5 -

{ : The INS report of Investigator OSCAR COLTON, dated

: 11/14/66, is being submitted in its entirety as an enclosure ‘
to the report, in the interest of economj:. Source N-], referred
to on pages 2, 3 and 4 of the INS report, indicates FBI reports

; previously Pal)
\

setae

INFORMANTS ;

NY T-1
NY 5554-s*

x
BY 1677-5*] (6) i 4

NEW_YORK

LEADS

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK. Will await the decision of the
Department of Justice aS to whether the subject has incurred an
obligation to register under the provisions of the Foreign Agents
Registration Act of 1938, as amended,

7 Seceer

COVER PAGE seseeeeeeeeeeeeepeeneEese

HW 50953 DocId:32309642 Page 2

a


fi

\

defense. |

— is

Dissemination",

the characterization of the PRSC is so classified.
report is classified "Secret".

NY 5554-S* and [NY 1877-S*Jis classified "Confidential" inasmuch(S)
as the unauthorized disc neh

these sources could lead

sources 0:

SECRET

NY 105-74220
CLASSIFICATION:

This port is being classified "Secret-No Foreign

nasmuch as information furnished by CIA in

kt The INS
Information received from

fq information received from
hecidentification of sensitive
4 joneinuing value and be harmful to the national

#

SECREP |

janvaen.
~""“COVER - PAGE

HW 50953 DocId:32309642 Page 3



Xu

SEC
Repael. Ruboideooke SECRET

designated: Ambassador.to v4.
the United Nations by the Dominican 'Constitutionalist" Tym kip
(F86éT) Government, after the Dominitan revolt began in april, Inkp

1g05

On October 25, 1966, NY T-2 lggrmed that (Luzs
“Posauano, Vice-Consul, Dominican Consilatefiey. York

ty»
ROBERTO FERNAN 04 discussed the currént Boginiean lomkp

political situation and agreed that they did not like the
looks of things. (3

On October 28, 1966, NY T-1 learned that ROBERTO

FERNANDEZ requested ALBA ESPINAL to remind GASTON ESPINAL
that some people would visit the headquarters of the New York

branch of the PRD from about 9:00 PM to 10:00 PM, the evening
of October 29, 1966, to do some imeosraphing. weCur

On October 31, 196

/ NY T-1 learned that GASTON
ESPINAL advised his wife, » that he had been informed by
ROBERTO FERNANDEZ that SACI VOLMAN , former.Director of | the
Labor Research Institute, 113%East 37th Street, New-York City,
Had arrived in New York op October 29, 1966, and would be
here for a few days bul Ww

On November 3, 1966, NY T-1 learned that RUBEN
BRACHE asked GASTON ESPINAL whether or not ROBERTO had obtained
"that copy". NY T-1 believes that BRACHE was referring to
an article which had appeared in "El Tiempo", a Spanish language
daily newspaper, published in New York City, which article
stated that Communists control the PRD. BRACHE wanted to take
"that copy" to the United Natione on November 3, 1966, ESPINAL
assured BRACHE that if he hears from ROBERTO, he will request
ROBERTO to get “that copy”. C4 w

= On November 22, 1966, WILLIAM R. ENNIS, Security
Supervisor, New York Telephone Company, 104 Broad Street,
New York City, advised Special Agent FRANK J, MEYERS that he
was unable to locate any listingy for telephone number 457-

2hé2. Ru)

On November 23, 1966, NY T-1 learned that ROBERTO
FERNANDEZ informed GASTON ESPINAL that he had received the
declaration of principles, of the PRD, and had made a photostat
of same for ESPINAL. &) 5)

~3- 4
SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32309642 Page 4



the United States had supported the coup. d'etat » Gemocracy
would have been furthered and cormmmnism suffered a set-back. |
It was his opinion that Commmists intervened in the
revolution only after the Averican.intervention.

The following Service informants were interviewed on the _

' dates indicated and failed to identify SUBJECT by name or

photograph: :
“"\RYC-1-596 September 6, 1966
& < WXC+I-617 September 8, 1966

-NYO-I-618, interviewed september 7) 1966, advised that SUBTECE poe

had attended a school with which he had been associated in

Cuba. SUBJECT's uncle, FIREL}FURNTES, and tvo of the latter's, bes
sons hed participated in the of Pigs Invasion and were CHM

taken prisoner. He hed heard that FIDED FUENTES is currently ~_
living in Florida. _ SUBJECT had been anti-Batista and Bro-
Partido Qrtodoxo which party was anti-Communist. Although
originally favoring FIDEL CASTRO, SUBJECT has never been pro<
Commmist. He had last secn the SUBJECT about a-year ago —

and spoke to him on the telephone esbout six months AZO. |
SUBJECT claimed that he had been a créw member of a plane sta
which dropped food and materiel to the Bay of Pigs prisoners

but he has no further knowledge of SUBJECT's claim, SUBJECT
had been closely associated with Juan Bosch and his party.

In his opinion, Bosch is not a Commmist. He further believes

that SUBJECT may have worked for the™ Central Intellisence ney
He hed heard that {SACHA YOLMAN, with whom SUBJECT hed been($
associated, was an agent of the Central Intelligence. Agency.

Mrs. IRMA KADMON, United States citizen, Sontor Resettlement
Worker, International Rescue. Committee, N60 Park Avenue South, -
few York City, interviewed September 16, 1966, stated that

she has imown the SUBJECT @uring his employment from February. -
19, 1966 to date. She reported favorably concerning SUBJECT's
character and loyalty to the United States during this period.

JOSEFH B, SPENCER, United States citizen, 422 Third Avenue,
Rew York City, interviewed September 16, 1966, stated that :
he has known the SUBJECT as a neighbor for the past two yeers.”
Be was unable to furnish any derogatory information as to
SUBJECT's character or loyalty. see Me

CHARLES STERNBERG, United States citizen, Director, International

Yew York, N.Y. 11/14/66 ~
ALL 85 682

bo) SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32309642 Page 5



Rescue Committee, 460 Park’ Avenue South, New York City, {nter-
viewed October 1, 1966,
-° dn late 1963 or early 1964 in connection with the Dominican

“refugee problem. SUBJECT had been deeply involved with Juan

Bosch and his follovers and had been assisting them with .
. their immigration problems in San Juan, .Puerto Rico. He
eR _ Fecommended SUBJECT very highly, both as to character and
ee loyalty. He stated that SUBJECT is outspokenly anti-Castro
and anti-Communist. SUBJECT is.a close friend and associate
of Juan Bosch whom he considers to be anti-Commmist. Be
2 knows of SUBJECT's affjliation with the school in Costa Rica
_. + and with(Sacna vous, [ He strongly believes that both vere(S)
Oo o5 So CIA sponsored. 9 PLE RE eg Ey bese fenced:
Investigation conducted at
failed to ‘locate any witnesses, including ANTONIO MORE with

Whom SUBJECT resided, who knew the SUBJECT. :
“ Bfforts to locate ANTONIO MORE were unsuccessfuls-

* ALL paragraphs are unclassified except, where otherwise
_andtcatede Sykes

SECRET

stated that he first met the SUBJECT |.

530 West 122 Street, New York City.

HW 50953 DocId:32309642 Page 6

