124-90146-10053| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/27/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90146-10053
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-93072-31
Document Information
ORIGINATOR :| CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: — 07/27/1961
“PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 10/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: = MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32339221 Page 1


| © ff ©

Ed AN CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
\J D FRO M WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
EINE Yast
gi? 27 JUL 1961
cin oO

MEMORANDUM FOR: The: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION : Mr. Sam J. Papich

SUBJECT : RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference is made to your investigative report of 28 June 1961,
captioned as above.

It is noted that page 2 of the above investigative report con-
tains information that on a passport application dated 7 1956,
Paris, France, Richard Thomas Gibson listed a Mr. Rob: Snowden, 12) —
North Washington Street, Rockville, Maryland, as.a-reference. +

It ig’believed that the above Robert Snowden is identical to
Robert 1A Snowden, undertaker, whose current address according to
the local telephone directory is.26 North Washington Street, Rock-
ville, Maryland...

eee
)
German noseodhanes” ‘born,_2 1916, Geithersbure,.}ervian 6)
a current Agency employee, Listed Robert Snow , 246 North ‘Washington

Drive, Rockville, Maryland, 'as’a reference in 195) 2, and a copy of his

d Personal History Statement is attached.

The son.of[ Herman Roscoe Talley, Herman Kennet! sug tom 25_
April 19h0,{Gai sr ag, eel Sted Robert L. pee

i6 North Washington Street, Rockvi. Mary: » aS a reference on,
an 11 March 1957 Personal History Statement. Kenneth Tal.

was a summer employee of this Agency in 1957, It is not known at this

time whether either(Herman Roscoe Tall 5 German Kenneth T:

are
known to Richard Thomas Gibson. 7

In view of the above information, it would be appreciated if your

Bureau would furnish this Agency any information contained in your

files in regard to the Robert Snowden listed as a reference by Rebar 9 (7

ees Gibson and/or the Robert L. Snowden finn by German Roscoe
Ss apgison as a reference.

el Canta! "ene sci

ns uy FORMATION om NE

a “o’ tue & 1908
IF i

HW 50953 DocId:32339221 Page 2
