# 124-10274-10064

## Page 1

124-10274-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1366-1405

page 61

62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1.

Mr. W. R. Wannall

1

- Mr. W. M. Cregar

1 - MI. S. F. Phillips

January 29, 1976

your request and is not for dissemi.

Ime o to official proceedings by

disclosed to unauthorized person.

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMITICE IN

STUDY GOVERNMNTIAL OPERATIONS MITH

RESPECT TO INTEILIGELCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is nade to SSC letter dated

January 20, 1976.

This document is prepared in response to

nation outside your Comm'

your Committee and the cois..

nel without the express approuch of the EBLa

Iten I ni referenced letter requested tecess

In all material furnished to the FBI "by the CIA frou

& snurce tenown to the rBI as 'COIGS! and wan was handled

as a snurce under the heading 'racial extremist matters.!"

It sas indicated in Iten 1 that CIA had already given

the Chamittee Staff access to the material In its

possessina relating to this surce.

In view of the Third Agency considerations

present, this request was discussed on Jamaty 23, 1976,

by a representative of this Bureau with Mt. Halter Elder

ot the ClA Review Staff. Mr. Elder advised that CIA

had no record of "COLGs" but that it did have information

concerning "CINGS, "

PILINAD

According to Elder, the SSC

has seen everything which CIA has in its files concerning

"CInGS," including the approximate 30 menranda thich CIA

prit

Assoc. Dr.

-had furnished to the FBI.

Elder expressed the preference

Dop. AD in _that this Bureau respond in the referenced request by

Ass1. Dir.:

Admin.

referring the SSC back to CIA.

Comp. Syse.

Ext, Affalrs

FBI files contain a single reference to "CInGS,!!

fin aC that being a CIA menrandum dated May 17, 1971 indicating

Idons..

Inspection .

Intoll. -

Loboratory —

Plan. & Eval. -

98137000S

Spoc. Inv. —

SFP:lhblhb

ORIGINAL

COPY TO AG

Training-

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

Logal Goun. —

Tolophone Rm. -

Director Sacy =

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

So. URE

pun

3.41.0

Tele: 1001860-80-00

---

