[124-10311-10292] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10311-10292

HQ

62-27799-513

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Document Information

FBI
LEG, BR
HQ

12/23/1964
J

USSS

PAPER,. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

07/27/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32311270 Page 1


“OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 eect: so1005.03

RY 183 EDITION

UNITED STATES GOVER' ‘ENT
Memorandum s

\ y, -

| io Uy Director, FBI DATE! 12/23/64
i + a

|

Wea

rRom : y oe Bern (62-70) (RUC) SERDET
ve oO seas ie |

| | SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH SECRET SERVICE
‘ THREATS AGAINST. THE PRESIDENT,

ity
OPUBEL o
ReBulet 11/19/64. G& SPITGG= Sead -
Files of Legat, Bern, have been reviewed for

individuals residing in Switzerland and Austria considered | (ie
to be a possible threat to the President, and no one was S \ i
\

found to fit this category. ’ : ©

In addition, discreet inquiry was made of the ‘s
: following sources, all of whom had no knowledge of individuals
@y who might be considered threats: i

Be

Et
Consular Section, the Embassy, Bern; q
Office of Special Assistant :

2 the Embassy, Bern}; @ we
American Consiilate General, Vienna; ‘ naar
esearch Branch the Embassy, Lf
~ Vienna ; : Ss ‘Se

urity. Officer, the Embassy? Vienna.

: In this regard, however, Bureau attention is. called
to the case entitled. PAUL GEORGE ANDERSON, aka, IS-X (Buf, iy

100-415051). ANDERSON has been reported to be of interes

to the Secret Service (Legat, Paris, letter dated 10/16/64).

While he does not reside in territory covered by this office, I

he is in rather frequent transit en route to Hungary, where

he is attempting to obtain a visa for his Hungarian wife to

enter the U.S. ; : P/Y-97
Soe | cLassiFieD BY 46 a
(1 - Liaison) ‘ : DECLASSIFY ON:

2 - Bern
(1 - 105-213)

HDG: mis 7
(5)

“AUS pes
3

“HW 50953 DocId:32311270 Page 2

