# 124-10280-10030

## Page 1

|124-10280-10030

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10280-10030

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-77667-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/29/1964

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

CC, SECADES, ROLANDO L. CUBELA, ASSOC, LIAISON WITH

CIA, CONSPR, CUBA, CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

J0953

DocId: 32302093

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5lt0i0e

MAY 19E2 FEINON

GSA GEN: REG. NO. 27

a UNITED STATES

•ERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET.

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-77667)

CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

July 29, 1964

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

SAC, MIAMI

(109-471) (C)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION FOR BRAcES

SUBJECT:

ROLANDO I. CUBELA Y SECADES

IT THIS DOCUMERT. EXCOPA

EXCEpT FOR

IS - CUBA

Renylet 10/11/63. 10120

10513160209 BRAckerS

x5-266-98

JFK,

It is noted that CUBELA is a Cuban Government

official whose desire to defect was made known by MM 761-S

47121-94

in June,

1962. Thereafter, CIA apparently made contact

with CUBELA in Europe through CARLOS IEPEDINO, 9819 64th

Avenue, Rego Park, Queens, New York, a Cuban exile and 134

long-time friend of MM 761-S, who frequently travels in

+101645-2798 Classified bys

Declassity on:

Europe?

MM 761-S advised that on July 15, 1964, he was

visited by CARLOS TEPEDINO, at which time he confided (

certain information concerning CUBELA.

He cautioned

informant to say nothing concerning their conversation

which would permit the information to reach CIA or any

other source through which it might become public, inas-

much as to do so might result in the death of persons in

105=

SUD KSR

Cuba, as well as

TEREDINO himself (u)

JFK

(TEPEDINO thereupon confided that he has been &("

acting as the contact man between CIA and CUBELA. CUBELA

5668

is also in contact with L

ON: 25X

who reportedly is anti-CASTRO. (

has been assisting both CUBELA and (TEPEDINO.](3)(4)

Let

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY

According to TEPEDINO, CUBELA has been constantly

complaining to him that CIA refuses to furnish him with

certain necessary equipmen

with which he could take some

UNRECORDED

Bureau (RM)

Miami

0571667-21

ALL IRFORMATION CORVARIE

(1 - 109-471)

HEREIN IS LXCLASSIFICO

(1 - 134-379-Sub A) EXCEPT WHENE SHOWG

THE / neb

OTHERWISE

• JUL 30 1964

(4)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNCLASS

FED 211,326

SECRETI

MIAT

DATE/2/4785

NH 50953

D001d: 32302093

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MM 109-471

effective action in Cuba. lectEading to fEEDINO,

Acconding to TEPEDINO, CUBELA (O

desires some sort of compact equipment with which he can

possibly eliminate CASTRO; however, CIA keeps offering

him only large, bulky, unserviceable material.

Iccording to TEPEDINO, there is now under discussion u

some plan to kill FIDEL CASTRO

in which CUBELA will figure.

CIA allegedly was formerly in favor of such a plan; however,

inasmuch as Attorney General ROBERT KENNEDY would have no

part of it, it was shelved. Now the plan has allegedly been

brought up again for consideration.

President JOHNSON

allegedly is aware of it, and has not ruled against it.

It set in motion, it will be scheduled to occur sometime

before the elections in November.

TEPEDINO told the informant he has not been able fuj

to learn much more concerning this plan, other than that

CUBELA is supposed to participate, that it is to be

accomplished by men in Cuba, and

possibly someone from

Europe.

The informant advised TEPEDINO did not specificalle

indicate how he had acquired this information; however, the

(u)

informant presumed from his manner of speaking that he had

obtained it from CUBELA.

The above is for the information of the Bureau,

and is not being submitted in form suitable for dissemination.

since both TEPEDINO and CUBELA are apparently of operational

interest to CIA.

Dissemination would also lead to the

disclosure of MM 761-S. Although questioned closely,

MM 761-S was not able to furnish any further details.

ZECISECRET.

2.

539-888811

NH 50953 DocId: 32302093 Page 3

---

