/124-10302-10228) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION =
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10302-10228

HQ

2-1499-17

Document Information

FBI
LEG, MX
DIRECTOR, FBI

01/26/1959
4

FS, BKG, RES, ASSOC, TRA, ARREST, SMUGGLING,
WEAPONS, PRO-CASTRO.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Confidential

1A

Redact

05/22/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

vod
HW 50953 DocId:32310284

Page 1


7 i i ce

Coneigsnt ial.

Cuban, PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ had requested permission to be

interviewed with an attorney present and that this request
had been granted,

tir. THOMAS. HAZLETT, CIA representative in Mexico
City,]/furnished the following information which he said ha i

bee orwarded td CIA headquarters with res ect to the
activities and afsociates of FRANK FI INT

NIAINORINI, PEDRO LUIS bran Mave and_RICARDO
DE LA ar Nats had arrived in Mexil Qo. City‘on 10/27/38,"
afternaving traveled from the ‘Miami, Florida, area by
automobile and having encountered difficulty with Mexican
Immigration authorities upon entering Mexico, [HazLetT {dia @)
not. know their Mexican port of entry but stated that ey

had been in Monterrey; therefore, he concluded -that they had
crossed the border at Brownsville or: Laredo, and that
they must have entered Mexico 10/24,25 or 10/26, 58. Follow-
‘ing the arrival of the trio in Mexico City, DIAZ LANZ and

i DE LA LORIE proceeded by air to Venezuela returning about

| 10/31/58. Shortly thereafter they again left Mexico City

j by air enroute to San Francisco, California, vay

: Meanwhile, on 11/4/58, FLORINI departed from Mexico
: A City in the automobile and is report 0 have met DIAZ LANZ
: and DE LA LORIE at Yuma, Arizona. u

On 11/8/58, they are reported to have been at th )
i Highway House Motel at Phoenix, Arizona. /HAZLETT elieved CR”,
: that from Phoenix they proceeded to Kingman, AriZdna, where “e
| they made the purchase of a C-46 airplane’ which had been

U.S. Government surplus and which was purchased and

H registered in FIORINI's name, even though it is presumed

| that the funds were provided by the two Cubans. au

: From Phoenix, Arizona, the group flew the airplane ©
to Veracruz ai apulco, Mexico, before proceeding to
| Apatzingan, v)
TL

Y
; ke. Tustiin| pressed the belief that some member
| of the C up Way have advised Mexican military
i authorities regarding a4 truckload of arms and the -

airplane, He added tha the best of his knowledge,

after being detained fo eral days, all subjects and

the airplane were released; however, fazuttlyas not rs)
: certain as to whether or not the arm$ were rned to

i them. wv
, x Contid
\y : os : wae

ee
SRB. yt

i
{
|
|

|
\
|
\

HW 50953 DocId:32310284 Page 2



Confident {al

Cc,
HAZLETT Qs sea that from 10/27/58 until 11/4/58,
| FIORINI registered at the Bel Sol Apartments in Mexico
City and gave his U. S. address as being 422 Glen Ridge

,Road, Key Biscayne, Florida. He also was registered at the
N° Hotel Statler in Mexico City and gave his U.S. address

XN cas being.310 N.E. h Street, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
W"HAZLET ated that. ecent newspaper article in the Mexico
ty afternoon paper, "Ultimas Noticias" had published a :

i photograph of FRANK FIORINI standing on some of the graves
ig of BATISTA followers who had been executed by the triumphant
FIDEL CASTRO RUZ” revolutionaries. Ku

&
Ciaziert] stated that cIA sources had advised that
FIORINI appeared™to be a "New York Italian gangster type"
who spoke only broken Spanish and with what appeared to
be an Italian accent, eu

i Inquiry at the Office of the Federal Attorney
General, Mexico, D. F., developed information to the effect
that all investigation in this case was conducted by the
i osecutive and judicial authorities at Morelia, Michoacan,
Ite view of the fact that investigative informants of this
office have considerable difficulty in checking official
records in the State of Michoacan, any effort to take this
action has been delayed until it is possible for this
investigation to be conducted by personnel of this office
or an investigative informant who has adequate credentials
for that purposes] Nu)

From the foregoing data concerning FIORINI, it
appears that he is probably identical with subject FRANK
ANTHONY STURGIS. . It also appears possible, in view of
FIORINI's reported presence in Cuba, the question of his
identity may already have been fully clarified.

LEAD

’ MEXICO CITY
7 Af MEXICO, D. F. AND MORELIA, MICHOACAN
:

, Will explore the possibilities of obtaining the
aa, results of interviews of FIORINI by Mexican authorities and

i any information which can be obtained concerning the outcome
of the arrest of FIORINI and the group of Cubans.

\. Cont sont ial

HW 50953 DocId:32310284 Page 3

