124-10221-10297|,

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10221-10297
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 174-2-14253

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: DIRECTOR. FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1976
PAGES: 4
SUBJECT: OBA, ASSOC, BOMBINGS, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

pete Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 08/17/1998 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS __ Redact 7
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32340904 Page 1


fbageSe RUEAIIA 8212 SECRET {
OUT "WOT ONLY BECAUSE OF THE COMMUNIST SITUATION UNDER WHICH THE
CUBAN PEOPLE HAVE TO LIVE, BUT BECAUSE OF COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF

LATIp AMERICA.” IT WAS SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED THAT TuO BOMBINGS OCCURRE D
THE PTHER HAVING BEEN AGAINST THE/‘CUBANA DE AVIACION OFFICE LOCATED

| AT TOCUMEN INTERNATIONA AIRPORT WHICH SERVES PANAMA CITY AND THE
aol emer

’ PANAMA CANAL ZONE.
3. COSTA RICA: A. THE LOCAL PRESS OF 5 AUGUST 1976

REPORTED THE :
iH yt jeuisciast - —
ARREST OF THREE MEN C AGED WITH CING BOMBS IN THE OFFICES OF THE
; soPhst

LEFT-WING NEWSPAPER UEBLO ," THE/COSTA RICAN POPULAR FRONT PARTY AND Cs
LEFT ;WING NEWSPAPER // foosta RICAN POU
THEASOCIAL 1ST_PART
BE DIRECTED BY THE J LATIN AMERICAN REVOLUTIONAR

Chelsea aed
ORL. ANDO BOSCH AAVILA » ONE OF THE MEN, EVARISTO
ORL. AND: SHPAVILA ©

SAID TO BE A CUBAN WHO IS NOW apace COSTA RICAN CITIZEN,

THE ACTIVITIES OF THE MEN ARRESTED WERE SAID TQ

“COUNCIL” FOUNDED BY
Res Chee

SARCIA YSARMTENTO, WAS

fh.0

chile) 9 §, Kisb
WHILE THE OTHER TWO, JOSF ANTONIOPGUIDOAESPINOZA AND MARIO/CONZALEZ ai
GRVAJAL, ARE COSTA RICAN NATIONALS. GARCIA/WAS SAID ALS@ TO REPRE~
( SENT A PRO-CHILE ORGANIZATION, CITED AS (AcoMLTE COSTARRICENSE, PRO- CArle
VERDAD CHILENA,” AND TO BE LINKED WITH BOSCH. ACCORDING iio eeeeeaeiaiel

Z| COSTA RICAN AUTHORITIES DISCOVERED amonc (S)

ieee

HW 50953 DocId:32340904 Page 2


oa L -
vt RUEAIIA 8212 SECRET \
THE PERSONAL EFFECTS OF THE MEN ARRESTED A LETTER FROM BOSCH MEN-

TIANING HIS GROUP AS RESPONSIBLE FOR A BOMBING ACTION TAXEN AGAINST
PBANA DE AVIACION AT KINGSTON, JAMAICA.

f AT ABOUT 972% HOURS LOCAL TIME ON 24 AUGUST 1976 TYO HIGH EX- \
PLOSIVE DEVICES WERE DETQMNATED IN SAN JOSE. ONE HAD REEN PLACED
Caste AN.
OUTSIDE THE OFFICES OF ZIBERIA AIRLINES BUT HAD AD BEEN IN MOVED BY A
STREET CLEANER TO A POINT FARTHER WEST OF THE SAME atid WHERE IT

ae ODED IN FRONT/OF OTHER OFFICES, THE One EXPLODED OUTSIDE THE
N

Ce
OFFICES OF THEXNANACO SHIPPING LINE IN THE BROKE DISTRICT OF SAN

JOSE. THE EXPLOSIONS INJURED SIX PERSONS, THE PRESS DESCRIBED THE
| pomBS AS HAVING BEEN FABRICATED WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVE AND DETONATED BY

| CLOCK MECHANISMS. IT ALSO NOTED oe HAS AIR ROUTES SERVICING
CUBA AND NANACO IS ASSOCIATED WITH T NAVIERA MULT TON EL.

CARIBE (NAMUCAR) TO WHICH CUBA BELONGS, AND RELATED THE ROMBINGS TO 7
= 2
SIMILAR ACTS THAT HAVE OCCURRED IN PANAMA, AND COLOMBIA.

4, (tars AGENCY'S REPRESENTATIVE IN SAN JOSE] COMMENTED THAT (
THERE HAS BEEN A RASH OF BOMB INCIDENTS IN SAN JOSE DURING .THE LAST
SEVERAL MONTHS. THE EARLIER ONES ENTAILED THE USE OF BLACK POWDER-

TYPE INGREDIENTS, NORMALLY PURCHASED LOCALLY FOR RELIGIOUS CELEBRA-
TIONS, AND THEREFORE WERE NOT ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS OR DAMAGING. THE

as

HW 50953 DocId:32340904 Page 3
