# 124-10278-10401

## Page 1

124-10278-10401

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10401

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/16/1963

' PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, OBA, FINANCES, FLIGHTS, RAID, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC S/S, MEMO, LHM

49.1

HH 50953

17

DocId: 32301566

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SII-X3

SECRET

REC 33

(NE) 97-4474

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

Date:

December 18, 1963

Att INTONATION 00

HIRED TO.

WHERER SHOWN OR

CARDEC

To:

Director

Bureau of Intelligence and ResearcHiAs NO OBJECTION TO

Department of State

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Fzon:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCopt the Brackets

Subject: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION

ткн 2-6-99

REVO LUC TONARIO

INTERIAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

2-14-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5618 SID /ESR

DECLASSICA

N: 25X

Reterence is made to our letter

dated December 17,

1965. with enclosure.

Attached is the original of a nemorandum dated

December 18, 1963. A copy of this menorandum is attached

for each of the other recipents.

Ints will contim intormation orally rumisaee to

BY COURIER SVO

1 8 DEC1 9

COMM. FBI

Mr. B. E. Frisa, Department of State eer•Paul Skorie,

Central Intelligence Agency, Mr. Lester Johnson, Bureau

• (S)

Customs; Mr. James T. Murphy, Federal Aviation Agency; and

Mr. John H. Davitt, Internal Security Division, Departnent

of Justice, on December 16, 1963, by Mr. A. J. Decker of

this Bureau!1340

DE CHO RET HOR!

/ ENCLOSURE

We are endeavoring to obtain additional information

and the

pertirent data will be made available to the recipients.

Tolson

Enclosure

2/211

Belmont::

Monr

Cass

Gasper:

Callahan

Conrad

-1 - Director (Enclosure)

Central Intelligence Agengy

Dedloach

Avons:

Galo

Roson

Attention:

Deputy Director, Plans

Sullivon -

Tovel

Trotter

Tole. Room -

Holmes

Gandy:

VHN:

JAIN

964

MAIL. FOOM L

TELETYPE UNIT L

PAm

SECRETIN

V MAtCA

HT 50953

Doold: 32301566

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

(NI) 97-4474

December 18, 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTATNED

HERBEN IS UNCLASSEFIED

EXCEPT WINEE 0109

OOHE TES

MOVIMTENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

2/187% SPO MAC/SAT

Classified by AbBTALCL

Declassify on: ADR (JFK)

Previous information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization is planning to carry out

a bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahama Islands.

The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid reportedly is

located at the Broward International Airport, Fort Lauderdale,

Florida.

On December 14, 1963, our source in this matter who has

furnished reliable information in the past advised that

Willian Johnson, a United States citizen, pilot and businessman

who has previously been involved in anti-Castro activities,

received $450 from the treasurer of the captioned organization

for obtaining the airplane to be used in this operation.

On December 16, 1963, our source advised that the

airplane to be used on the bombing raid is an Aero Commander,

number N2624B, which is located at Broward International Airport

and which is the property of Charles Bush who operates an

aviation company at the airport. Bush is scheduled to fly the

airplane from Fort Lauderdale to Bimini. Practice flights were

scheduled to be made on December 16 and 17, 1963, and

consideration was being given to having the airplane fly over

Bimini during the December 17, 1963, flight.

Our source further advised that the captioned

organization intends to utilize two boats in this operation.

Tolson

A large boat piloted by a Cuban captain will depart from the

Belmonti

Mohri

Miami, Florida, area without contraband on an ostensible fishing

Casper

trip on the evening of the scheduled raid. This boat will

Callah an

Conrad:

Be Loache

rendezvous at sea with a snaller fast boat carrying the

Evans:

Cale:

VHN :klw

Mosen:

Sullivan-

(16)

Tavell

Trottet

SECRET:

Tole: Room:

Holmes a

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PAGE THO

92-4474-82

ENCLOSURE

tom

HM 50959

DoeId: 32301566

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MOV IMTENTO INSURREGIONAL DE RECUPERASTON REVOLUCIONARIO

demolition bombs which will have departed from the Homestead,

Florida, area. The bombs will be loaded on the bigger boat

which will then proceed to the airport at Bimini. Our source

believes that a small farm owned by Laredo Rodriguez, treasurer

of the captioned organization, located in the area of Homestead

Bay Front Park, on or near a canal, will be utilized in the plans

for the departure of the small boat.

According to information obtained by our source, the

bombing expert who will participate in this operation is one

Orlando Ramirez. Available Information indtcates that this

individual is possibly Identical with Dantel Orlando Remirez Denis

who has served as a bombing expert on one or more raids previously

conducted by the captioned organization.

Orlando Bosch Avila, head of the captioned organization,

has indicated he desires that this operation take place during

the current week.

Rofe matiou. (S)

authorities were advised of the above

Original to State, copies to CIA, Army, Navy, Air Force,

DIA, Customs, INS, FAA, Coast Guard, Yeagley. Coples separately

being furnished John Crimins, Coordinator Cuban Affairs,

Department of State, by Courier Service and Stott. (5)

038032

- 2 =

SECRET

97-4474-82

003830297

MW 50959

DooId: 32301566

Page 4

---

## Page 5

422 (Rev: 1-32-60)

Federal Buredu of Inve

Jation

Necember

-des

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

-orward to File Review

tention -

Return to

Плас

63PB

Supervisor

Type. of References Requested:

•Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

lain

_ References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Locality

of

HASC

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

Variations

Subject,

Charte buch

Birthdate & Place ON tousage

Address -

Localities

Date -

Searcher

_ Initials

FILE. NUMBER

2- 431

Aim-

107720030

67 5x3 2048 at ha

97-

Chai en - 27 bunte

1-1693-96

97-4623-158166071

charle Sautes

NT $97-4196-47-27p57

* file changed out

ALL

INFORMATION CONTAINED

SHEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

2/8798

SPOMAL/CAT(R

AW 50953 DooId:32301566 Page 5

---

## Page 6

• Cel Sue

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

(FEDERAL BUREAD DE INVESTICABICA

U. S. DEPANMENT OF JUSTIOS

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 G 1963

TELETYPE

Vr, Tolson

Nr, Belmont

Me. Mohr

Vir. Casper.

"Tr. Callahan

Ir. Goarad

"ir, I".Lrach.

• Date

traither.

URGENT

FROM

12-16-63 3-36

PM EST SHR

DIRECTOR, FBI

197-44741

Classified bobAlA

Declassify on: OADRP/T/8

SAC, MIAMI /105-28551

3 P

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACTION REVOLUCIONARIO,

IS DASH CUBA.

RE MIAMI TEL, DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE.

ON EVENING DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ

PAREN PROTECT END PAREN ADVISED THAT DR• ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

INSTRUCTED ALPIZAR TO CONTACT LAREDO RODRIGUEZ, TREASURER OF

MIRR, WHICH IS HEADED BY BOSCH, AND THAT LAREDO WOULD FURNISH ALPIZAR

WITH FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS TO PAY WILLIAM JOHNSON FOR

OBTAINING AN AIRPLANE FOR THE SCHEDULED RAID. BOSCH ALSO ADVISED

ALPIZAR HE WOULD PAY FOR ALPIZARAS PRACTICE FLYING TIME

PREPARATORY THIS OPERATION..

REC 33

97-447482

SUBSEQUENTLY, ON DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR OBTAINED

9 1964

FOUR

HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS FROM LAREDO WHICH HE PAID TO JOM GONO E

THEREAFTER, ACCOMPANIED BY JOHNSON AND RARENCENU) END PAREN RAMO,

ASSURAN PILOT, ALPIZAR PROCEEDED TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

WHERE HE PRACTICED FLYING FOR ONE HOUR IN AERO COMMANDER N TWO. SIX

146 1L

END PAGI

P3

5m.

Memo Si20s

tosallicen

12. 1160-491

12-10.25

Atopped

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32301566

Page

"6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

PAGE TWO

TWO FOUR B, PROPERTY OF CHARLES BUSH WHO OPERATES AN AVIATION

COMPANY AT THE SAME FIELD, ALPIZAR WAS CONSIDERING RAMO AS HIS CO

DASH PILOT BUT RAMO NOT ENTERESTED IN THIS VENTURE.

ON DEC. SIXTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR ADVISED THAT HE AGAIN

ON DEC. FIFTEEN PRACTICED FLYING FOR ABOUT ONE HOUR WITH CHARLES BUSH

IN THE SAME AERO COMMANDER PLANE, HE LEARNED THAT THIS IS THE PLANE

WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BE USED ON THE BOMBING OPERATION AND THAT .

CHARLES BUSH IS SCHEDULED TO FLY THE PLANE FROM FT. LAUDERDALE

TO BIMINI PREPARATORY TO THE BOMBING OPERATION• PROVIDING

WEATHER CONDITIONS PERMIT, ALPIZARM IS SCHEDULED TO AGAIN PRACTICE

WITH THIS PLANE ON AFTERNOON OF DEC. SIXTEEN AND SEVENTEEN. HE PLANS

TO FLY OVER BIMINI ON DECEMBER SEVENTEEN PROVIDING HE IS NOT

ACCOMPANIED BY BUSH.

ALPIZAR HAS OVERHEARD DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN BOSCH, JOHNSON

AND LAREDO WHICH LEADS HIM TO BELIEVE THAT BOSCH INTENDS TO

UTILIZE TWO BOATS IN THIS OPERATION. A LARGE BOAT, PILOTED

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

HY 50953 DooId:32301566

Page '7

---

## Page 8

PAGE THREE- .*

SECRET

BY A A CUBAN CAPTAIN, WILL DEPART FROM MIAMI AREA, WITHOUT CONTRA-

BAND ON AN OSTENSIBLE FISHING TRIP DURING EARLY EVENING OF DATE OF

SCHEDULED RAID. THIS BOAT WILL RENDEZVOUS AT SEA WITH A SMALLER FAST

BOAT CARRYING THE DEMOLITION BOMBS WHICH WILL HAVE DEPARTED FROM THE

HOMESTEAD, FLA. AREA. THE BOMBS WILL BE LOADED ON THE BIG BOAT WHICH

WILL THEN PROCEED TO THE BIMINI AIRPORT AND PROCEED ACCORDING TO

PREVIOUS PLANS OUTLINED.

BOSCH HAS DISCLOSED ON TWO SEPARATE OCCASIONS THAT THE

BOMBING EXPERT TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS OPERATION IS ONE ORLANDO

OR RAMIREZ• PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION BY U. S. CUSTOMS HAS

DISCLOSED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL IN UNDOUBTEDLY IDENTICAL WITH

DANIEL ORLANDO RAMIREZ DENIS WHO SERVED AS A BOMBING EXPERT ON

ONE OR MORE PREVIOUS RAIDS CONDUCTED BY MIRR. ALPIZAR ALSO

BELIEVED THAT A SMALL FARM OWNED BY LAREDO RODRIGUEZ IN THE AREA

OF HOMESTEAD BAY FRONT PARK, ON OR NEAR A CANAL, WILL BE UTILIZED

IN PLANS FOR DEPARTURE OF THE SMALL BOAT•

ALPIZAR IS STILL ATTEMPTING TO DISCREETLY ASCERTAIN MORE

INFO RE THE IDENTITY OF THE BOATS AND OTHER PERSONNEL INVOLVED•

BOSCH HAS INDICATED HE IS DESIROUS THIS OPERATION TAKING PLACE

DURING THE CURRENT WEEK.

U. S. CUSTOMS AND OTHER INTERESTED AGENCIES IN MIAMI HAVE

BEEN ORALLY ADVISED•

LETTERHEAD MEMO SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION FOLLOWS•

MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS •

CORR PAGE LINE J WORD

O SHD BE INTERESTE

END AND ACK PLS

4-09 PM OK FBI WA MSL TKS

TU AND DISC

SECRED

NY 50953 DocId: 32301566. Page

---

## Page 9

PROTICE BUREAS CE INGOTIGATION

D. S. GEPALITMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 6 1963 l

TELETYPE

Pio Molo

rico

Mr.

Nax.

Gaspin

Callines .

Or cadu

Cate tien

WIs

NuE.

Dix, Pois?

Tele. Toc...

Voss toda

Tin. Tele

2256

URGENT

12+16-63 3-36

PM

EST

SHR

DIRECTOR, FBI 197-4474/

FROM

SAC, MIAMI /105÷2855/

3 P

MOVIMBENTO INSURRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACTION REVOLUCIONARIO,

IS DASH

CUBA+

RE MIAMI TEL, DEC, FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE.

ON EVENING DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, IVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ

PAREN PROTECT END PAREN ADVISED THAT DRE ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

INSTRUCTED ALPIZAR TO CONTACT LAREDO RODRIGUEZ, TREASURER OF

MIRR, WHICH IS HEADED BY BOSCH, AND THAT LAREDO WOULD FURNISH ALPIZAR

WITH FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS TO PAY WILLIAM JOHNSON FOR

OBTAINING AN AIRPLANE FOR THE SCHEDULED RAID. BOSCH ALSO ADVISED!.

ALPIZAR HE WOULD PAY FOR ALPIZAR/S PRACTICE FLYING TIME

PREPARATORY THIS OPERATION.

SUBSEQUENTLY, ON DEC, FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR OBTAINED

FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS FROM LAREDO WHICH HE PAID TO JOHNSON.

THEREAFTER, ACCOMPAINIED, BY, JOHNSON AND PAREN FNU END PAREN RAMO,

A CUBAN PILOT, ALPIZAR, PROCEEDED TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

WHERE HE PRACTICED FLYING FOR ONE HOUR IN AERO COMMANDER N TUO SIX

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE

SpaMICSAT (JFK)

NH 50953 DoeId: 32301566 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE TWO

TWO FOUR B, PROPERTY OF CHARLES BUSH UNG OPERATES AN AVIATION

COMPANY AT THE SAME FIELD, ALPIZAR WAS CONSIDERING RAMO AS HIS CO

DASH PILOT BUT RAVO NOT UNTERESTED IN THIS VENTURE*

ON DEC, SIXTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR ADVISED THAT HE AGAIN

ON DECA FIFTEEN PRACTICED FLYING FOR ABOUT ONE HOUR VITH CHARLES BUSH

IN THE SAME AERO COMMANDER PLANE, HE LEARNED THAT THIS IS THE PLANE

WHICH IS SCHEDULED TÔ BE USED ON THE BOMBING OPERATION AND THAT

CHARLES BUSH 1$ SCHEDULED TO FLY THE PLANE FROM FT LAUDERDALE

TO BIVINI PREPARATORY TO THE BOMBING OPERATION, PROVIDING

BEATHER CONDITIONS PERMIT, ALPIZARM

IS SCHEDULED TO AGAIN PRACTICE

WITH THIS PLANE ON AFTERNOON OF DEE. SIXTEEN AND SEVENTEEN. HE PLANS

TO FLY OVER BIMINI ON DECENBER SEVENTEEN PROVIDING HE IS NOT

ACCOMPANIED BY BUSH.

ALPIZAR HAS OVERHEARD DISCUSSIONS

BETUEEN BOSCH, JOHNSON

AND LAREDO WHICH LEADS HIM TO BELIEVE THAT BOSCH INTENDS TO

UTILIZE TUO BOATS IN THIS OPERATION, A LARGE BOAT, PILOTED

END PAGE TWO

HH 50953 DocId: 32301566:

Page 10:

---

## Page 11

PACE THREE

"BY A A CUBAN CAPTAIN,

WILL DEPART FROM MIAMI AREA, WITHOUT CONTRA-

BAND ON AN OSTENSIBLE FISHING TRIP DURING EARLY EVENING OF DATE OF

SCHEDULED RAIDA THIS BOAT WILL RENDEZVOUS AT SEA WITH A SMALLER FAST EA

BOAT CARRYING THE DEMOLITION BOMBS WHICH WILL HAVE DEPARTED FROM THE

HOMESTEAD, FLA, AREA, THE BOMBS WILL BE LOADED ON THE BIG BOAT WNICH

WILL THEN PROCEED TO TNE BIMINI AIRPORT AND PROCEED ACCORDING TO

PREVIOUS PLANS OUTLINED

BOSCH HAS DISCLOSED ON TUO SEPARATE OCCASIONS THAT THE

BOMBING EXPERT TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS OPERATION IS ONE ORLANDO

OR RAMIREZ, PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION EY A S. CUSTOMS HAS

DISCLOSED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL IN UNDOUBTEDLY IDENTICAL WITH

DANIEL ORLANDO RAMIREZ DENIS UNO SERVED AS A BOMBING EXPERT ON

ONE OR MORE PREVIOUS RAIDS

CONDUCTED BY MIRR+ ALPIZAR ALSO

BELIEVED THAT A SMALL FARM OUNED BY LAREDO RODRIGUEZ IN THE AREA

OF HOMESTEAD BAY FRONT PARK, ON OR NEAR A CANAL, WILL BE UTILIZED

IN PLANS FOR DEPARTURE OF THE SMALL BOAT•

ALPIZAR IS STILL ATTEMPTING TO DISCREETLY ASCERTAIN MORE

INTO RE THE IDENTITY OF THE BOATS AND OTHER PERSONNEL INVOLVED

BOSCH HAS INDICATED HE IS DESIROUS THIS OPERATION TAKING PLACE

DURING THE CURRENT WEEK

U, So CUSTOMS AND OTHER INTERESTED AGENCIES IN MIAMI HAVE

BEEN ORALLY ADVISED

• LETTERHEAD MENO SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION FOLLOUS.

MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED ALL. PERTÉNENT DEVELOPMENTS.

CORR PAGE 2 A LINE JWORD

END AND ACK PLS

4=09 PM OK FBI WA MSL. TKS

TU AND DISC

ORIC: NIR. BELMONT FOR DIRECTOR

ru прес

sche

NW 50953

DocId: 32301566

Page 11

---

