124-90124-10060| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

35/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER» —124-90124-10060.
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-180209-2
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE:
cae DATE: 05/09/1968
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL II
WORLD WIDE INFORMATION SERVICE INCORPORATED
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.

HW 50953 DocId:32335502 Page 1


fseemrettaaaatidecaat ra ) = y

ONAL FORM NO. 10
(98 EDITION
ievin (a GPR) ore os

a =. UNITED STATES G¢ 'RNMENT

> “Memorandum

ey WEA ra
GX) : DIRECTOR, FBI Vi RED pate: 5/9/68
ym HAS NOATRIECTION TO
SAC, WFO (105~88511) (RUC) DECLASSI GARIAN, ANDIOR,
) RELEASY OF BAAD RINATION |
fecr: @WORLD WIDE INFORMATION SERVICE, INCORPORATED, IN THIS B@ extepr
660 FIRST AVENUE, | NEW YORK bancluet.

EW YORKCITY; Wy,
RICHARD VaITTTAKER)UBBELL, PRESIDENT ,/ aka;
Is-R
(00:NY¥)

© ReNYlet to Bureau 4/16/68.

re

EQ

Ft
4)

It is noted that information concerning captione :
Sirs organization is set forth in(C14 Jletter and enclosures aac :
©GS' to the Bureau 12/18/67 re{"TASS Interest in World WideG¥. ;
@°:2 Information Services, Inc.; IS - USSR,"|which were forwarded (HW)
= to WFO and NYO by the Bureau under thé haption{ "TASS

NEWS AGENCY; IS - R" (Bufile 100-183386) .-|

WFO files indicate that JOHN FURFEY (CIA covert) '

advised on 1/4/68 that WILLIAM KENT (CIA covert) was employed
as the Washington representative of captioned service, (stu)

ork
yroPito In, view of the above, UACB, WFO will not rev; i
files(of citlper lead in relet at this time, It is )
(W suggested, Instead, that the Bureau might obtain pertinen !
y information(from CIA through liaison, if this appears u) l
advisable. i

s| \
5 WFO indices contain no reference to ADOLPH BOLM,or :
to anyone else with the surname, BOLM,

In connection with HUBBELL's wife, KYRA D. HUBBELL,
it is noted that report. of SA BERYL M. GOODENOW, Los {
Angeles, dated 9/29/48, re "BORIS MICHAEL ora) ESP - R" \

ep. 5. 10S LOL

Bureau dette is
“New York (105-94287)) 10 MAY 10 1968
1-WFO ; a :
Classified by, SEC : é FT
TJib. i
G Declassify R Ss

MAY 1.7 1963 ; : ; ;
AS 'S\ Buy, U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

HW 50953 DocId:32335502 Page 2
