424-90110-10083] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90110-10083
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-89923-184
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/13/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
CLIP.
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

TT

v9.1

| NW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 1


f =
t |
si.4-41 (Rey. 1-25-61) © = ee w2
epics : | :
Ae I 4°

Fee
a

bis
Pagar ,

fav
Trotter
W.c. Baye

Teletype eae

IA HAS NO QBJECTION TO .
i

2 Radio

6 AHOR
a

4 URGENT” 4-13-61 -17 PM SK
Ny

DIRECTOR she

‘Clastitigg by.

FROM SAC, Mia 151836 pectassfiy
SNTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

Le 1S=GUBA, BUFILES 1005-89923, 137-6257 ,87-58729.

APRIL 3 LAST MM 722 C FURNISHED FOLLOWING RE JOSEPH MEROLA 5
FORMER Ci’; NOW SUSPECT IN "UNSUBS (TWO) ARMED ROBE Braz. ¢
APPROXIMATELY $117,200 IN JEWELRY AND CASH, RESIDENCE OF

EDITH, AND FRITZ DORIGO, HALLANDRLE, FLORIDA, MARCH 20, 1961, £-<%% at
ITSP MAJOR THEFT, OO MIAMI," MEROLA RECENTLY TOLD Cl HE wi &
IS“CONNECTED WITH CIA IN SOME CAPACITY IN WHICH HE CLAIMED TO £4 &
HAVE ACCESS TO ALL FORMS EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING FIREARMS AND eh Oy

AMMUNITION, BEING FURNISHED BY CIA TO SOME ANTI CASTRO GROUP. % VY
MEROLA CLAIMED CIA SENDS THIS EQUIPMENT TO MEROLAS HOME WHERE |

IT 18;SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED BP BY BOAT FROM REAR MEROLA ‘RESIDENCE.
CLAIMED HE 1S REQUIRED HAVE CUBANS WHO OBTAIN GUNS-SIGN RECEIPT © \}
FOR SAME, OPERATION TAKES PLACE UNDER COVER DARKNESS. CLAIMED
TO HAVE TAKEN FROM EQUIPMENT SEVERAL AUTOMATICS EQUIPPED WITH
SILENCERS, INFORMANT CLAIMS MEROLA 1S ARMING THE OUTFIT"

AND IS FURNISHING THESE WEAPONS TO VARIOUS HOODLUM ACQUAINTANC
FOR SUM $500 EACH, MEROLA EXHIBITED ONE SUCH AUTOMATIC TO CI e
AND DEMONSTRATED BY FIRING SHOT INTO AIR. Cl "COULD NOT HEAR

; A THING." ON APRIL 5 JOHN NOBLE, COVERT CIA AGENT WORKING
OPERATIONAL LEVEL, ADVISED DID NOT BELIEVE CIA HAD OPERATIONA

bk INTEREST IN MEROLA BUT WOULD CHECK.. ON APRIL'6 HE ADVISED

GIA HAD NOY OPERATIONAL INTEREST, IN MEROpie 99N APRIL satay JUST

Tele Poors Ce of wets “if

\
Gromer O ZaeRevigetl ct ii is ortho
MOENSTAME THANSPORTATIC

i

WNRECORDED COPY FILED

pa

7

STOLEN PROPERTY y"
om a nay
“UD” G8 APR 26191 2

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased inorder to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

mea |

{
t
HW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 2



r=

+ A-41 (Rev. 1-25-61) ee ;
ea gy : : Tolsoa
; i Parsons
eee Mohr
Belmont

Callahan

DECODED COPY ear

W.C. Sullivan
Tele. Room
Ingram

co Radio culeletype

Sha:

PAGE TWO: FROM SAC, MIAMI 131836

GLEICHAUF, OVERT CIA REPRESENTATIVE, MIAMI, ADVISED ABOUT TWO
MONTHS AGO HE WENT TO MEROLAS HOME AFTER MEROLA PESTERED HIM
WITH PHONE CALLS OFFERING RENT PLANE OR HELICOPTER TO CLA

FOR USE BY FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO, ANTI CASTRO
ORGANIZATION UTILIZED BY CLIP. MEROLA SHOWED. GLE!CHAUF BOAT
TERRY KNAUT" DOCKED BEHIND H!S HOME AND IMPLIED THIS WAS

HIS BOAT AND !T HAD ALREADY BEEN USED BY FRENTE. MEROLA
SEEMED EAGER GET OUT OF U. S. AND SUGGESTED CIA USE HIM ON
SOME MISSION TO BRAZIL WHERE MEROLA PLANNED WORK OUT DEAL

TO SHIP WHISKEY TO BRAZIL DUTY FREE THROUGH BRAZILIAN
POLITICIAN. GLEICHAUF TOLD MEROLA HE WAS NOT INTERESTED.
AFTER FURTHER CHECK, GLEICHAUF ADVISED MIAMI THIS BOAT HAS,
BEEN USED ON ONE OR MORE OPERATIONS BY FRENTE, BUT NOT

LIKELY BE USED AGAIN BECAUSE IN BAD SHAPE, BOAT 63 FEET,
BEARS REGISTRATION NUMBER 2700). GLEICHAUF STATED MEROLA
NOT WORKING FOR CIA FRENTE SO FAR AS CAN DETERMINE. ON
APRIL 5) i OVERT CIA AGENT, FURNISHED MIAMI LIST
BOATS BEING USED IN VARIOUS OPERATIONS IN WHICH CIA HAS

| INTEREST. "TERRY KNOT?" ON THIS LIST. AFTER SEVERAL

) ee. ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT VARONA PERSONALLY, ON APRIL 13

JORGE Vis. SECRETARY TO MANUEL ANTONIO DE VARONA LOREDO,
) GENERA OORDINATOR OF FRENTE, CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED MEROLA
} A 1S WORKING ON THE BOAT "TERRY KNOTT" OWNED BY MOVIMIENTO DE

APRIL 8 AND JOSE "PEPE"Y

OF FRENTE. MORAN STATED f8QAT WAS OPERATED BY SANTIAG
1OLA WAS IN CHARGE OF "TER Kor

| RECUPERACION DE LA REVOLUGION, MRR, WHICH IS MEMBER ORGANIZATION
\

rage
Se We foceth ty”

! If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
L paraphrased inorder to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

| NW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 3

