424-90110-10090) | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/2/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90110-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-75663-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 06/01/1959
PAGES: 41

SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 01/15/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : RPT

vol 16
NW 50953 DocId:32334097. Page 1



(fie ota Ay indi oa learned through motel sources that }

GG . &

- MM 97-261

ELS:bna CONFADENTIAL SECRET

For information of all offices, RUBEN MIRO,
according to CIA, has served as a source of information
for CIA, but at no time has CIA controlled his activities
nor been in a position to give him guidance. The
subject was imprisoned for 35 months-.1n Panama and was
subsequently acquitted of the assassination-of___, A
Panamanian President JOSE ANTONIO REMON. The subject Rena Wo
has emerged as_a revoltionary figure opposed to the ca
present Pana fian Government headed by President qc lO
ERNESTO di eee A, JR.\ MIRO is a first cousin of
ROBERTO £. FJARDIA, a\Panamanian revolutionary.
figure who, ere april, 1959, took refuge in the
Brazilian Embassy in Panama City, Panama as he was
being Sought by Panamantan Authorities. § u

For nBatgtie of ald offices, MIRO. has. been FL eo

in contact with (RALPHXMC CLAIN known ¢ represe a= a !
_tive who resides in Panama cit’ anama. [MC 3) f, ;
“to Miami from Panama April 22, 1959, and empte: !

contact MIRO. . However, he was not aware Mi MIRO Aa |

departed for New York City April 21, 1959. [Mc CLAINYS
contacted JOSEPH MEROLA, Miami source furnishing ‘information '
on a voluntary, epnfidential basis, who is a.close
associate of winol A SMC CLAIN|did not reveal his '
official tine MEROLA; however, in view :

MIRO's Tee crate issions regarding (MC_ (tic. CLAIN cna
suspect MC CLA intelligence agent. tae
hat[ MC ‘cuania told him he is an insuranc
representative and diso deals in stocks and vente)
MEROLA stated] MC orai}2heckea out of the
Ankara Motel, Miami Beach, Florida, April 22, 1959,
and indicated that he was returning to Panama.
CLAINJ indicated he was got to NewYork City, | =
» therefore, presumed that[Mc CLA ight meet
MIRO in that City. Miami was unable to confirm ‘nets

D.

- COVER PAGE - \

CONFIDKNTIAL’

t HW 50953 DocId:32334097 Page 2


Street, New York, New York, registered at the. 4
“hotel + CULL

c))

MM 97-261

LIS? bna S EC RET CONFIMENTIAL

departure of [mo CLAN. Dene Bureau has instructed it
desires no investigation regarding [MC CLA n view of
his official position. It should noted that

MEROLA departed for Cuba on April 22, 1959, claiming
his departure was necessary in connection with personal
business reasons. It should be noted that CARMEN

eALOY, PSI under development, informed that on April 22,

1959, MIRO called from New York City on that same date
attempting to locate [Mc CLAIN| 6)

otek Ferd a8
1a Leer,
On-April 25, 1959, Mrs. sossrpifferoe * enn

confidentially, voluntarily informed that (RALPH MC CLAIN| s)
left a “oars. MIRO at her residence on April 24,
that(Mc CLAL as proceeding to“Havana, Cuba,, and would \
be ifcare of the Hilton Hotel. AW (72

It should be noted that at the time of inter. fA
view of RUBEN MIRO GUARDIA by SAs STAFFORD and DAVIS LA ie
at the Miami International Airport on April 25, 1959, FLA i
MIRO made a telephone call and stated he was going to ee i
contact GEORGEEN SICKELS, staying at the Miami Skyways
Motel. _ MIRO indicated that GEORGEEN SICKELS, he had
learned, desired to go to Cuba with him. MIRO made
a telephone call, and subsequently stated that he had
contacted GEORGEEN SICKELS,and she stated she could not
be ready to go that evening, and, therefore, he had
to leave her behind. MIRO stated he had never seen

|
SICKELS, and furnished no additional information , {
concerning her, a a : \- var i
DEUMADES, UWE te,
at ‘tHe SERS toed disclose

Tnqui.
that SHIRLEY "EXGICKELS and her sister, 4043 75th

hotel on April 23, 1959.

pu eld aE
: On April 29, 1959, csonosm\NGrorers, 4 4008

-Mahoning_ Street, Canton, Ohio, was intérviewed:

at Miami, Florida; By A y- i
ude : y

: E. et : i

i

= COVER\PAGE - :

|

oe

SECRFT

roneX carry aay

| 50953 Docld:32334097 Page 3


ae MM 97-261
LLS:bna

(Informants continued)

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

MM T-4 is RICHARD JABFE,
contacted by SA

GEORGE E. DAVIS, oR.

(By request.)

MM T-5 is MM 635-5

SECRET .

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION.
97-261-37, page 9 ]

134-211-sub A-144

Careful consideration has been given to each
source concealed in this report, and "T" symbols have
been utilized only in those instances where identity

must be concealed,

\

@.
COVER PAGE -

t HW 50953 DocId:32334097 Page 4
