'124-10281-10060)

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/28/201

Identification Form.

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10281-10060

HQ

CR 105-267092-15

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
LEG, MX
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/18/1974
3

MAB, ACA, MILITARY TRAINING, NICARAGUA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
Secret

1B

Redact

08/10/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

vol

21

HW 50953 DocId:32302340 Page 1


OPTIONAL FORM NOD
MAY 1982 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-514

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum con BDENTIAL IAL

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-267092)

4
3°

6k.

Oe u
FROM EGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-11148)}(R
£ my 2pl
g ¢ hes ans
Sg TERNATIONAL qe ZL,
3 Saint beaaey aert? pcan ae f 3
2 bal I TAT ee aire 0! BPeriassity of: fig, :
2 is nue ae
S pen ye ial i)
= fre Mexico City letter dated 8/12/74; au airtel
2 wdated 7/30/74; Dallas teletype dated. 7/26/74, aaa Bureau
= airtel dated 8/16/74 é
3S

Inquiry through U.S. Embassy sou: s and through er
@ rs local CIA Pave Managua, Noaragualfon 10/3/74
ailed to develop anY indications that clandéstine military
training. is being given to anti-Castro groups, in Nicaragua.
Ambassador TURNER B, SHELTON (protect) advised on that date
that he had received no reports whatsoever in this regard
and added that although the government of Nicaragua might
be sympathetic to that cause he was certain that thre are
: no overt or covert training camps in Nicar a endoysed py
| the Nicaraguan government ® ssi oe 3.4)
Ambassador SHELTON indicated thdt MANOL@/ARTIME,
= 3 2 who is a well-known leader in anti-Castro activ: ies iit tHe’

Miami,Elerida—area, is a frequent visitor to Nicaragua. He
indicated that ARTIME is in the business of importing

Cy Nicaraguan beef into the United States and he believes that
we his visits are for business purposes, and are not connected
©. With political activities ADE ALY)
oN *
bat: a General ANASTASIO SOMOZA (President elect of Nicara: hay
7 4 yon “11/3/74.indicated that there are no training camps for any,
iI Wo Bureau
= (1 - Foreign eaeteen Uni

2 - Daas) a
i)

ce eee C4 wen
a : iy
TF 2

STATE DEPT. INE At

Veer asst

Forty ie :
g

“

CONRDENTIA

By U. c Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll
LL. otestan-on fe

Serstusstastasanestanaoiennana?

HW 50953 DocId:32302340 Page 2
