# 124-10053-10348

## Page 1

124-10053-10348

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

3/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10053-10348

HQ

62-109060-1870

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, LO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/13/1963

2

JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

N9 50953

DocId: 32136330

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

F[..36 (Rey. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRFELASSIFICATION AND/OR,

•RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

iles

l i priatiy or Method of Mailing)

EXCEPT BROCHMEN

TO PIS 2N

DIRECTOR:,

FBI

FROM JAH 3-M7GgLEGAT, LONDON (62-359) (P)

SR 3-30-43

ASSASSINATION OF. PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY

12/10/63 Secret

56685001

9-7-95

8-12-92

Grassinal by 9803 RODISA

MasSEn 0400

7/2/77174

REA 38

0040

scion Indefinito

Classifical

Date disales

Remyairtel 11/26/63 reporting a newspaper reporter

in Cambridge,

England had stated he received anonymous telephone

call prior to the time of the President's assassination saying he

should

call the American Embassy

in London as there would be

some

big news. U

The Bureau was informed that on the next road trip

to Scandanavia checks would be made with sources there for any

intormation on OSWALD:

Cy cable of 11/27/63 stated British

Security Service,MI-5

had intormed that the reporter was unreliable

and irresponsible

B 1742/88

ede Per C/A retle

12/9/63 MALCOLM CUMMING of MI-5 advised that this

reporter, TREVOR

FITZGERALD, had

been interviewed. He stated hell

received the, calf at the offices of the "Cambridge News" at about.

6 PM gn Friday November 22, 1963.

He based the time on the fact he

*Strian

had arrived

!. home from his office

at 6:20 PM. The call was made by

a man with an, English accent who spoke

with a deep voice.

Inquiries

at the «telephone exchange in Cambridge were unable to confirm the

call. LAccording to MI-5, while FITZGERALD is described as a capable

reporter-a reliable source has informed he is in the habit of

"shooting, a line". There were no other persons in the office when

the cali

was allegedly received and it was not until the morning of

Baturday, 11/23/63 that FITZGERALD mentioned the call. On the

morning of 11/23/63 the reporters of the

"Cambridge News" were dis-

cussing

the assassination and it was atithisitime FITZGERALD mentioned

the call to

the chief reporter: who

turn reported it tò local

authorities

REC-38

62-109060

1870

vi

3) - Bureau

1 - Liaison

1 - London

CWB:rn

(5)

section i(sent direct)

/ 1.P./ XEROX

ĐEC 16 1903

FANTAT

BY CONVAINED963

ISSIFIED

Sultatin

G C. Wick

inspir

Approved:

Sent

Pei

Special Agent in Charge

REY

NH 50953 DoeId: 32136330

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lonfile 62-359

CHB:rn

Secret

SLURET

According to MI-5, FITZGERALD is married and

resides at 3 Earl Street, Cambridge.

He was born 3/28/39. Et

is the general feeling among FITZGERALD's cOlleagues that

doubt about the t

telephone call having rever been received S

оn 23/2/63 r, BOB PORTER CIA, 01014

informed m

that a check had been made of the following records on OSWALD:

American Embassy, alien Police, Criminal Police, Security Police

all hotels in Oslo, (fe checks were completely

negative

On 12/4/63 02- PHIL ERICKSON, CIA, Stockholm S

• Stockholm newspapers on 11/25/63

obtained his Soviet visa in Stockholm in 1959 after being unable

l to get the visa

in Helsinki, Finland.

The news account said

OSWALD had remained in stockholm for

two days.

A check of all

hotel records in Stockholme

negative. Police, security and

allen records also negative

u)

On 12/6/63 Mr . FRANK FRIBFRG, Helsinki

hat confidential inquiry had disclosed OSWALD arrived in Helsinki

and registered at the Torni Hotel. He remained there

one night,

then moved

to the Klaus Kurki Hotel where he remained

until 10/15/69.

On that date he crossed the Finnish-Soviet

border by train. TRIBERG stated there was no indication he went

to Stockholm to get his visa and it is presumed the visa was

issued by the Soviet Embassy in Helsinki.

A check of police, and

alien records disclosed no information in Helsinki

this

ALMAINE

CLASS/PER CIA OM 5-8-92

9803 RDS/ISR

5/88-92

# 6454

- 2 -

NH 50953

DoeId: 32136330

Pade

3

---

