HN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|_
[NATION

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10280-10074
RE ES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2436

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE:. 10/14/1976
PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ASSOC, TRA, VENEZUELA, FINANCES,
CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH, BARBADOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NEW

CLASSIFICATION: — Secret ; CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 06/08/1998 UPDATE_DATE:

STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32302137. Page 1



—S aca 7 @PRIORITY
Intelligence Information Cable fe eeiicn

in Ob9101

i

‘WARNING
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES A AND METHODS INVOLVED

R_ JC’ SA TREAS NSC/‘ PAGE 1 OF 5. PAGES
EO ie poral eal N NSC/S SDO NIO CRS

‘Classified by Recorded from General Declassification Schodule 11652 Exemption
Ecegeny BE (is inposcbieoe Dever ‘of Automatic Declassification. bout

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
. CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

CITE TOAIR, DB-3u5/lUcSb~ 7b
é bist 14: OCTOBER 1976

SOhe

SX Ausuatty. RELIABLE REPORTER. THES. INFORMATION IS NOT TO ol

\ aor scussed WITH. ANY, se) ae ‘INCLUDING THOSE
& a

: oF THE Laan
CFLELD. COMMENT: IN LATE SEPTEMBER 1976 A Usman ABLE

VENEZUELA. “UNDER THE PROTECTION OF VENEZUELAN BREST DENT. CARLOS is

eae

yor ty’
ANDRES PER E 2, FURTHERMORE, PEREZ wa APPOINTED HIS SECURITY
AND’ It NTELLIGENCE ADVISER ORLANDO AG A a C I-A 70 PROTECT AND ASSIST
ee STAY IN VENEZUELAs FOR THIS iar SEE
Piha d

SECRET : 32

HW 50953 DocId:32302137 Page 2


or - 3007 onsoiere Baevious © woes : cs er ne 2G6- 1007S \

538

“yy Ob9201

qpripDB-325/1N25b-7b

E ‘WARNING NOTICE -
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE © OF 5 PAGES

« PoRTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE: OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO.
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND: END OF REPORT.

SUF MID-SEPTEMBER, A SO OF UNDETERMINED RELTABILITY

1

EPORTED THAT ‘BOSCH ARRIVED IN VeNeeU eee ON APPROXIMATELY 43 SEPTEMBER.)
eT. AT THE AIRPORT ba

ARRIVAL IN CARACAS» BOSCH WA

“2. UPONTH
GARCIA AND:LUIS CLEMENTE P.O SADA, A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR :

ce, {
ND ONE-TIME MEMBER OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF: INTELLIGENCE |
HIS CARACAS HOTEL.

“CAND PREVENTION XDISIP), WHO ESCORTED BOSCH T

CUPYSLD COMMENT? © HHILE CURRENTLY NATURALIZED “V

NEZUELAN CITIZENS:

BOTH. GARCIA’ AND POSADA ARE NATIVE*BORN CUBANS.)”

Eu TBa FOLLOWING. BOSCHIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, ABS.

"By 000 (APPROXIMATELY UsS+ S1/116)-A PLATE. FUNDRAISING DINNER FOR Yi)
BOSCH WAS HELD AT THE HOME. OF HILDOMF 0. GA Re A PROMINENT eran ||

‘SuRGECN AND CUBAN EXILE. IN ADDITION TO BOSCH, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING
OLA TORTS We eee iT Te rt

eo
ORALE saeCianerte. og coy ae

THE DINNER: WERE GaRcIas RIC

“DEPUTY. WHO TS ALSO A NATIV
——

HIGH LEVEL: OFFICIAL OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.

er DURING. THE EVENING BOSCH APPROACHED THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR

BORN CUBANS POSADA; AND AN Sieg bere eo”

OFFICIAL, THROUGH GARCIA “PROROS ING THAT THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT MAKE

“Ae SUBSTANTIAL GASH CONTRIBUTION TO HIS ORGANIZATION. —IN RETURNs
BOSCH, AGREED “To GUARANTEE THAT THERE WOULD BE NO CUBAN EXILE DEMON@
HING RESIDENT eee PLANNED

HW 50953 DocId:32302137 Page 3
