124-10238-10307|

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:
RECORD _SERIES:
AGENCY FILE _ NUMBER:

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 199:

AGENCY INFORMATION
FBI
124-10238-10307
BA

89-30-313, 314

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 08/02/1971
PAGES: 4
SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-7023
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL : NE
CLASSIFICATION, Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 03/30/1999 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS — Open in Full
COMMENTS: INC A/T, LHM

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

| NW 50953 DocId:32183597 Page 1



7 Baw SEER 2S y a ryland

August 2) LOTL

By <50
| GA Rig wo osvEcTIOR TO \
| OECLASSIFICATION AND/ORU™: ASSASSINATION a ra IGEN
RELEASE OF CIA (NFORMAT! Heenniee tte KER ee PALIAS , /EXAS
th THIS DOCUMENT, AS batahald

nm Joon, Robinson. |
7 appeared at the
sy of/the Federal Bureau
ded the following

199 de 7 ot investigation (f3r)5 and provi
information.

She was an émpleyes of the Centra mbelligence
Agency \from october, is5e until August, 12634 )

: In Lv61, she was assigned ta the centres Intelli«e
ence Agency in Faris, France.

R ninsoaf ated that she had previously
supriied gome of the {Gliowlng information te the Central

te intelligence Agenay in @ letter to the Director of the Ceatral
Entelligence Ageney im March, Lv7l. She stated that she nag
to date only received a short letter from the Central

iigence Agency, aad that hepyfather nad received a

phone eae from oe Brown Ptoncerning her letter.

i & that she ves that tho details of the

| Following ts be corre md thet she had voluntarily

2

contacted a paychiat: 4d had csychological testing
performed, which she stated Lted in the payehiatri
advising hey that she is norma], She continued and advised
that she La disgruntled with the way that the Central
Intelligence Agency nas hendled tha information which she

oh provided, and insinuated that ane intendcd to contact
the newspapers in the near future with per information:

4- Bureau :

Dallas ars, reroRMATTON CONTAINED
Baltimoréponrn 15 UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP?
inj NERS SHO; OTRERWISE. .Uy

TWS DOCUMENT CONSAINS IPEITHER RECOMMENDA TOR:
NOR CONCLUSIONS OF IHE FBI. IT IS THE PROPERTY
OF JHE FBI AND 1S LOANED 10. YOUR AGENCY; IT

AND STS CONTENTS ARE NOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED
OUTSIDE YOUN AGENCY.”

F9-30— 3/3

|. 50953 Docld:32183597 Page 2


BA 85-30

SECRET

RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JORN
FITZGERALD KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS.
Hovenber 22, 1963

Mise Robinson} eteted that the following information

began com pack to Nér earlier this year, and credits her

lapee of menory éo @ drug induced amnesia administered to
her on order of @_Central Intelligence Agency employee,
A, Spencer Braham [6 {

During week of March 21, 1961, afte
‘vom luach, she operheard ao wersation betweer
Lew nam, Jrfoand possibly [goh

enployec® of. the [Centra j

place in the Cer intelligeace Agency office ocated by

} the second Ploox|ofjAvenus Gabrielle, ELS» Fy B
stated that she dues fot recall who was talk

_ the tonversation cencerned the fact that the President was
sot doing what was good for the country, espeelally about
Vietnam, and thet he hed to be done axay with within the
next five years. She stated that following thie remark,

wag teruinated.

ites neasipesl aes thet, the following Friday,
she given U. §, Atty orders by|Mre. Pierre (Marge
tasepe ie personnel officer, to travel to an unrecalied
Amy Nédieal Facility in Paris for a polio innecul#tion.
ghe stated that upon arriving 4t the Medical Fecility,
she wee injeeted with some type of drag which the Medieal
Yeehniclan, later told her was & drug which would make
her forget everything.

fe, :
Mize Robinso: ted thet she now recalle that
the technician told her that she would even forget getting
the shot, aud that upon returning $c her pffice, she vas
quéstioned about the injection by nd ghe remembers
that she told him that apparently she hEd received 2 polio

tnuoruiation, but did not recall at that time receiving
it.

HW 50953 DocId:32183597 Page 3

| ¥e heobire

cu}

the group hobiced thet she had returned, and the conversation



BA 89=30

Eien nobinson[etated that two weske following
this, she was telephowieslly contacted by [Harry H. Tann, 3x6)
another employee of the Cantral Inteliigeneé Ageney, Paris;
- France, Gnd told bo come to bis apartment for agme emergency
typing. She sieted thet upon arziying at/Luna'dppartnent
ghe wad met by |luon, Braham, Ja Last ta “own, out.
beginning with ""), ‘Those mon began making sexual advances
towards her, and she stated that she became extremely upset
and begged te be Gllewed to go home. She was told that she
eguld not go heme im her distraught condition and wag given
B glies of water and told to relax. She stated that she
lost consciousness for approximately ttn to fifteen minutes
_@nd when ehe @woke she found herself in bed wie fie es
She stated that she vas then rapea by Brenan, JackJ*4nd /iunny@)
She stated that she told them thot 17 —aphaij%jmew what Wis
happeniag there would be a lot of trouble.’ 3e of then
oa ied feanhamygnd he later appeared at the apartment and
eleo reaped HEY. She atated that later that evening she
wes teken to her apartment aad put inte her. own bed.

few nobinsoafaasa thet at a later date, exact
time w Mi, she Sgein ovarheard & conversation between
Brehen(Sand [Eaphawfgponcerning the fact that "Mr, Big" had
ordered that aayone who knew of “the plans" should be -
RAlied. [Lap tated during the cotiversetion that nothing
gould be Gone about her while she wag in Paris since there
would be too many questions asked about her death ia Trance.

face Robinson stated that Braham is now reaiaiog
dn Folis Ularch, Maryland; Lenn nav owne two art @illeries
and & rel estate office ia Washington, D. .) and Lapham

is now reeiding in Bethesda, Maryland. 3)

|

HW 50953 DocId:32183597 Page 4

