# 124-10284-10404

## Page 1

124-10284-10404

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10284-10404

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1566-16TH NR 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: DOS

TITLE:

DATE: 10/26/1959

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

PDL, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, REQ, EXTRADITION, ACA,

POLIT, AGENTS, EXAMINE, AIRCRAFT, WEAPONS A/O

EXPLOSIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

N 50953

DocId: 32303892 Page 1

---

## Page 2

вестовнині

Liaison

- Nasca

109-504

AL MARCOM

ONTAINES

141110-8-94 019 MAC/at

(OFK)

ES

AND T

!.".

Date:

To:

October 26, 1959

Office of security

Department of State

-LMO

From:

subject:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAI SECURITY - CUBA

MKH

2-4-48

Reference is made to my communication datei

October 23, 1959, with enclosure,

which transmitted

SLO/KSR

information concerning Pedro Luis Dia: Lanz, former

3-17-98

chief of the Cubon Air Force, and his participation in

a leatlet-dropping rata over Havana en votober 21, 1950. (JFK)

Enclosed for each recipient is a copy of a

memorandum containing additional information.

2-1566

Any additional pertinent dato will be furnished

the recipients.

Enclosure

PECORE/D

126 007 47 059

1 - Director

EncloSure

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

1 - Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence (inclosure)

Department of the Army

Attention: Chief, security Division

Esiston

Belmont

1 - uffice of special Investigations

" DeLoach

(EnclosIre)

Air Force

leGame

Wohr

Farsons

Rosen

• Tata:

" Trotter

•~. Sullivar

81 - Director of Naval intelligence

1 - Havana (EncIosure)

a F11

(inclosure,

VHN 114

TELETYPE

(16)

NH 50953 DocId: 323030920MPage 2

(SEE NOTE PAGE 2)

23t0

CONFIDENTEAL

GENEIDENTTAT

". .

10

9-584-459

---

## Page 3

I,

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CLASSIFIED

EXTENNED

REASO

FC!M

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

ON /0-120

Octoben 260 2959"ON TO

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

5668540/KSR

xi.

nOu

dATON

10/26|29-

EXCEpT FOR

• On October 23, 1959, our representative in Havana

the Brackoz

advised the United States Air Attache reported that the aircraft mk

dropping leaflets on October 21, 1959, were identified by a

26-98

sergeant of his office as a B-25 and

No B-25 is known to

De in cuba and only one is known to be in torida.

This is the

His plane was last based at North

property of Frank Anthony sturgis, parse Airports trank Fiorin

reportedly had yellow stripes painted on its tail. No aircraft so

marked was known to be based in cuba. The planes flew over the

Hilton Hotel, headquarters of the

American Society of Travel

agents convention, dropping leaflets. Their purpose allegedly

was to show that the present Cuban Government is incompetent to

maintain law and order.

No bombs were dropped. There was no

strafing from the air, but some cuban planes were damaged Dy

misdirected Cuban Army and police ground fire.

An informant with whom insufficient contact has been

had to determine his reliability, on October 23, 1959, learned

that the Cuban Air Force had instructions to have two fighters

ready to intercept any returning invaders.

With reference to the B-25 mentioned above, our Miami

Office advised on October 23, 1959, that the B-25 flown by

Diaz lanz, according to Diaz Lanz,

was owned by sturgis.

sources had no information concerning the C-47. United States

Border Patrol representatives in Miami advised that there were

very few cat's in the miami area and none were known to have

gone to Havana on October 21, 1959. The Border Patrol suspects

that the C-47 mentioned above is based in Mexico but has no

evidence to substantiate this belief.

On October 24, 1959, a source who is in a position to

furnish reliable information advised that at about 3:15 poMo,

October 24, 1959, Jose Ramos, Vice Consul acting in charge of

the cuban consulate, Miami, stated that the Cuban Government

wanted to file extradition proceedings immediately against a

Cuban exile in Miami.

The informant surmised that the subject

of the extradition proceedings would be Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.

These data were orally furnished to ur. Charles Hammond,

Department of state; Major cobb, Department of tha prair ancies

-1566

ADVISIA:

SLIP (5)

EXE

DATI

2e to home a l i

OM GOS CATEGOR!

2

ASSIFICATIPN INDEFINITES

11-3

DAI2

Let ant

NH 50953

D001d: 32303892

Page

3

---

## Page 4

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SECRET

Cemainer one De tremes and tre a dopen the carres

Do K. Harrelson,

Intelligence Agency by Mr. Jo I. O'Connor of this Bureau on

October 24, 1959.

It is

noted that the press on October 25,

1959, reported

that Cuban Foreign Minister Raul Roa publicly stated that the Cuban

Government was asking the United states for the provisional arrest

of Diaz lanz and would request his extradition. In this connection

the above source, on October 25, 1959, advised that Ramos had

consulted an attorney in miami and had brought data alleging two

charges against Dias lan. The first charged Diaz Lanz with murder

and the second charged him with attempted murder and were based on.

two cases, allegedly pending in Havana.

The first case allegedly

is pending

in the Fourth District, Court of Instructions, Case

Number 4482. The second case is allegedly pending in the Sixth

District; Court of Instructions, Case Number 300%

перогтеалу,

the court of Instructions

•is similar to a magistrate's court where

original complaints are filed.

No dates or details were furnished

by Ramos covering the circumstances surrounding the alleged

offenses.. The attorney reportedly drew up the necessary extra

dition papers including a warrant for the arrest of Diaz Lanz.

However, the attorney is uncertain as to whether he should continue

with this matter since it is obviously a device seeking to return

Diaz Lanz to cuba for political reasons.

On October 24, 1959, the informant mentioned on page

two of the enclosure to the referenced communication and who has

furnished reliable information in the past reported that a leaflet

Spanish language was being distributed in the cuban colony

in Miami®

The recipients of the leaflet were invited to attend a

meeting at 8 PoM., October 25, 1959, at.

the Circulo Cubano (Cuban

Circle, Miami, Florida, a social club, to protest and condemn

the actruities nich occurred over avana on October 1s 1959.

It was indicated in the leaflets that the meeting was being

sponsored by the July 26 Movement (Castro's movement), Miami.

The

informant learned that individuals representing various anti- Castro

groups in miami were planning to attend the meeting, some of whom

indicated they would carry guns, thus gluing rise to sloodshed

between the pro and anti Castro factions.

The Miami Police

Department and the Dade County Department of Public Safety nave

been notified and these agencies plan to take whatever steps are

necessary to insure that no violence will be carried out.

The informant mentioned in the foregoing paragraph

learned that, because of the furor raised in cuba during the

past-few days, the air sabotage which had been scheduled to

GaM

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303892 Page 1

---

## Page 5

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SECRET

continue through october 30, 1959, had temporarily ceased. These

data, as well as the data in the preceding paragraph, were orally

furnished to Mr. Herbert Lampe, Department of State, and Mr LI. O.

Tolman, SCentral Intelligence Agency, by Mr. G. W. Hall of this

BureaU.

It was also furnished to Major Cyrus Timmons, Department

of the air force; major Gains Hawkins, department of the Army;

and Lieutenant Commander Francis I. Reardon, Department of the

Navy, by Mr. C. B. Peck of this Bureau and to Mr. Chester A. Emerick,

Bureau of Customs, by Mr. J. F. Wacks of this Bureau. All the

disseminations were made on October 24, 1959.

On October 23, 1959, Deputy Al Tarabochia, Public Safety.

Department, Dade County, Miami, advised our Miami Office that Jose

Ramos, Vice Consul, acting in charge, cuban consulate, miami,

claimed to have received information from a source.

whose reliability

is unknown that a two-engine gray airplane was scheduled to drop

leaflets and probably bombs over Havana on October 24, 1959, and

that possibly Dia? lanz or his plane would be involved. Reportedly

the same plane was to fly over Havana on October 26, 1959, and drop

leaflets and generally try to disrupt a large castro rally planned

Border Patrol and United States Customs in Miami were advised.

D. Ko Harrelson, Department of the

Der Forces as de. auy dorand the Central Intelligence Agency

by Mr. Jo J. O'Connor of this Bureau on, October 24, 1959..

on October 25, 1959, our Miami Office advised that on

October 24, 1959, Pedro Luis Dia: Lanz; his brother, Marcos Diaz

Lanz, former Inspector General and Pedro!'s assistant in the Cuban

Air Force; Ricardo Lorie Valls, former July 26 Movèment under-

ground leader in Miami; Frank Anthony Sturgis, also known as

Frank fiorini, a United States citizen and former underground

member of the July 26 Movement in Miami; and Carlos Echogoyen,

former member of the Cuban Air Force, were interviewed..

Pedro Dia? Lanz confirmed the data he furnished on

October 22, 1959. He stated in addition that the leaflet-dropping

flight of October 21, 1959, was a joint enterprise of the above-

named persons under his leadership in behalf of the July 26 Anti-

Communist Movement, but without the specific knowledge of the

movement. Diaz lanz stated he planned the incident.

The receipt

of the data concerning the arrest of Hubert Matos, Castro

military leader in Camaguey, caused Dia? Lans to move up the date

and change the target from Camaguey to Havana. Ine purpose of the

- 3-

ADET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303892 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SECRET:

been in and out of the plane on numerous occasions and had never

noticed any arms or explosives. (4)

An informant who has furnished reliable information in

the past has provided the following data..

_ In September, 19599

informart learned

that t'ernando coba, a Cuban police sergeant in

Havana, had been given $1, 000 by his chief, Efigenio Almejeiras?.

for his part

States.

It is noted that Del Pino, a publicly admitted anti Castro

leader in Miami, was seized by Cuban authorities on July 25, 1959,

atter nis plane had landed near havana where

planning to smuggle someone out of cuba (was apparently

The above mentioned informant has also learned that

Almejeiras was attempting to find someone who would lead an armed

100-man expedition to cuba from Miami and then turn the members

of. the expedition over to cuban authorities in much the same fashion

as William Alexander Morgan, American soldier of fortune and Castro

official, had done in August, 1959, when he acted as, a double

agent for castro in

exposing a plot against.castro from bases in

the Dominican Republic.

According to the informant, Raul Castro,

newly named minister.

at the cuban armed forces, approved of this

venture and was greatly interested in seeing it carried out.

in

the possibility of the assassination or kidnapping of Esteban Ventura

Novo, former member of the Cuban National Police, in exile in Miami®

The informant also learned of the interest of Cuban authorities in

having Evelio Alpizar Perez,

in Miami, delivered to cuba.

delivered to cuba. le cuban 11r force pilot in elize

In october,

1959,

the informant learned that Almejeiras

and coba were interested in enticing members of the anti castro

faction in Miami to send a bomb-laden plane to cuba for the purpose

of bombing Havana. (DU

According to the informart,

he conferred with Almejeiras

and Coba on October 23ª 1959.

Almejeiras proposed that source

approach Rolando Masferrer,

prominent anti-Castro leader in Miami,

or some other leading anti-Castro leader in the United States and

volunteer to undertake a bombing attack against Havana from the.

united states. (DU)

According to the plan outlined by Almejeiras, the

informant would procure bombs with United-States Government

markings and would deliver them to Almejeiras after landing in a (C

ECRE

NH 50953 DocId: 32303892 Page 6

---

## Page 7

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SECRET

prearranged landing strip outside Havana.

It was indicated that

Cuban authorities would then issue a press release claiming that

a Miami based plane had aropped bombs on cuba, offering as proot

one of more of the bombs with United States markings wnich

supposedly had failed to explode as well as fragments from other

bombs which the cubans would expiode.

Almejeiras told informant

this hoax would enable the castro regime to propagandize against

the United states State Department in order to force United States

action against anti-castro elements in this country. Almejeiras

said he wanted this ruse to take place on October 26, 1959,.

and

described the operation as "highly important" to the Cuban

information concerning this proposed ploto....

The informant aiso learned that Almejeiras reportedly

stated that several hand grenades were' dropped from the plane that

dropped leaflets. over Havana on October 21, 1959. Reportedly

Almejeiras stated that another plane flew over Havana on October 21,

2959 cout that he dan coverment did not have any descriptive

It is requested that no

further dissemination be made

of the information furnished by this

informant because to do so

might place his life in jeopardy.

(4)

SECRE

NH 50953

D001d: 32303692

Page 7

---

