Fiza-10225-10347) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ae

JFK Assassination System : Date: 6/15/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10225-10347

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —100-30067-123, IST NR 123

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: — 10/08/1959
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC MEMO, LHM

vor 25
HW 50953 DocId:32299567 Page 1


American imbasuy Fe
Paris 8, Fran SECREY
Date: Oatober 15, 1959
To: Director, FBI (100-333702; 100-30067) \
Prom? Legal Attache, Paris (100-1058) : \
Bub ject: JOEN PITTMAN : ;
SECURITY MATTER © ¢ Slasslited by
sa 7 }
FARGARDTE ADLER PIT ?MAN Beclassity ov: GAR ‘Zaehy
INTERVAL SECURITY - ¢ rats 5% #24 326
mle Fi
| Re Paris cables 10/1&8, 1959. Py TMee/ Ol Ge)
1 There are enclosed for the Bureau 5 copies of a letter-

fat ny ram} containing tha —mbatsnca ofa nenont naneinad

jon 10/14/59. G )
l

7

_There are also enclosed for the Sureau 97 tographs of
material obtained by’ the during
PITLMANS' visit in Paris, phs are of material in
their bagrage which was left in their hotel room between 9/30/59
and 10/4/59 while they were visiting London. it is noted that
these photographs contain addresses from an address book, addresses
from what appears to be a calender, press cards in possession of
subjects, notes pertaining to business contacts and one page which
appears to be a personal code. Also photographed was a map of
Pittaburg with several crosses at various locations. The significance
of these marks is not known, but this may be of interest to the Bureau,
These photographa are being forwarded to the Sureau for review and
any further investigation deemed advisable by the Bureau. (7)

RuC

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN /“-.

! gncLOSURE

4 + Bureau (1 Los Angeles; 1 Sen i'ranciaco) mel 102
1 = London tsent, ect)

1 + Paris y | lisapeseegninas
Qo . NOT RECORDED

489 OCT 19 1959

[aw 50953 DocId:32299567 Page 2


UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

SECRET

& confidential source abroad, who has furnished
reliavle information in the past, furnished the following
information en 10/14/59. @

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

Qetober 15, 1959

SOHN PLTT mar
RARGARETE ADLEM PITTMAN

JOnT PICIHAN and his wife and children registered
at the Hotel Gallic, 14 rue de l'arcade, Paris, on 9/24/59.
They departed on the evening of 9/30/59 for Londen. ‘They
returned from London on 10/1/59 and returned to the Hotel
Gallic. ‘they left Paris finally on 10/6/59 by air for Koacow. gy

The Soviet diplomat [OUI ZQURV, an Attache of the
Soviet imbassy, Paris, personally handled tke visa applications
for PISTNAT and his family and delivered to PISTNAl the visas
necessary te snable them te travel to Hoscow. (

During his visit to Parise, PITIFAN received a visitor,
an American negre by the name of ELLINGTON, whose exact identity
ia unknowm. He aizo telephoned a French Coermumist newspeper
reporter “ACBL PRETUCSILLE. (

NTAINED
SiFIED

: i108
Classified wyite Ol aaa
Declassify on: OaDRefael4

t 4,326
le rl one)

i}

J rowing

ENCLOSURE

aw 50953 DocId:32299567 Page 3


4-3 (Rev, 2-25-59)

DECODED COPY

:
C) Airgram Gok Cablegram Ferment
Gandy

Ge "OQ OBJECTION TO
0-8-59 ATION ANDIOR,
v ied CIA INFORMATION

7 “he
REL SI ae
TO DIRECTOR | IN THIS , tig
a Contes KP 6-97

FROM LEGAT, PARIS NO. 626 tey pe
JOHN Bale 7 aii: MARGARETE ADLER PITTMAN, IS-C. RE PARIS as)
CABLE OCTOBER } LAST. 7

ADVI SED gf REPORT TO FOLLOW. [6 | |

ay, TTIMAWN TotW ORKOW-NORMAN We PHILCOX
CTF

RECEIVED:. 10~8-59 2:23 PM

\od-— 33370) -

aoe
219-44 oh. é

SECREL

j
If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased inorder to protect the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

UNRECORDED wT FRED iis

50953 DocId:32299567 Page 4
