/124-90138-10038]

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90138-10038
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-5-8916
: Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: USAF
TITLE:
DATE: 08/08/1961
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
VICENTE GIRONA JULBE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B s
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

09/28/1998
APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

HW 50953 DocId:32337769 Page 1


°* SECRET

Ode NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY =
fl WASHINGTON 235, D.C.
f 8 AUG 1961
of Special Investigations BIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
‘ inoyector General DECLASSIHGATION AND/OR,

Attention: Mr. Gilbert R. Levy pert DOCUMENT, € 1007
Director PEC Ld = i Benthe 1s
Federal Bureau of seieitiion==* " Ke 5-1a-%

Attention: Mr. . d. Papich i:
Ame CMECh 5t0 [KS

PRON: a 6-14-95
SUBJECT: ticontean Juibe (GF)

f macy was recently in receipt of information fron|_ |
N) a which may ks) interest to the eddressess.

is as follows poh

Subject wes born on 5 August 1910 in the Province of
Castalon, Spain, the son of Miguel and Teresa, who
‘hon had & permanent residence in Monrovia, Liberia.

He carries a Spanish National Identity document
#369896613 place of issuance iliegible. Tt is reported,
that Subject was formerly a Colonel in the Ausrican :
Air Force but lost bis retirement pension from the
USAP because of his work as an Air Pores instructor in
Veneguéle during. the reign of Marcos Perez Jimenoz. He
ie diverced and hac @ son residing in Canada, also a
pilot in the USAF.

AUG 10 1961

Subject, who 1e presently residing in the Canary Istanis,
drew attention to himself when it wae revealed he carr:

both Spanish and "North American"* passports. Hs appeared

to have plenty of money but lived alone and avoided alt

social contact. :

2. If there 16 any information on Subject in the files of H
the addresseas, it would be appreciated if it would be forwarded ~
to this Agency. cae

a |
*ihigs is asamed to méan United States, but our report referred ox
to “North American". _ -—Fe-

yoo 1g 38 bi BEC. 32” 2S 44
ee

cs Cx 3/766,581 jowyes AULA

FOO i
Aa

- were SECHE

16 AUG Ni 1961
-

HW 50953 DocId:32337769 Page 2
