124-10225-10144]

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10225-10144
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-114543-1ST NR 179
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE: °
DATE: 07/16/1964
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
JURE, COMMUNIST INFILTRATION, EXILE GROUPS, US,
SUPPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 05/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

vol
HW 50953 Docld:32299364

Page 1


{ome S

s material contains information affecting the Nationsl Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title |
, , U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 79, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
i a

q :
S-E-C-R-E-T (hf
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba/Venezueia/Dominican Republic REPORTNO.  CS-311/00614-64 :
i SUBJECT Comments Regarding Cuban ” DATE DISTR. 16 July 1964
ae Exile Activities .

NO. PAGES 1

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED REFERENCES
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED

& DAY 2 DATELE Y. Ac. JCS:
L ae 2 June 1964 pe! 1 a

HePy Be
PLACE,& England, London a

ATE ACQ. (19 June 1964) FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
is

| egourcg
Work) sable, in

independent o

po 11 BOGE FUER

7,

a regular source, probably
with a Cuban exile who is cs]
le yprganize@zion. ’

The general opinion among Cuban exiles is that the United State

will not encourage exile groups to mount a major assault on Cub:
until after the United States elections.

47.

y (84, Vase is
ATION
Py the Ba tleces

if
6

The United States, the exiles say, is providing a steady flow «
aid to the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR, Movs
ment for Revolutionary Recovery), which is led by Manuel Ar
Buesa. ome exiles claim that the attack by the MRR on Puerto
Pilon in y 1964 was launched from the Dominican Republic.
is no evidence that Artime is receiving support from the Vene
Government His failure to establish personal contact with the
Adminis on (Venezuelan) during his visit to Caracas between
22-27 May 1964 has provoked criticism in government circies,
disillusionment with the MRR+is said to be caused by Artime's

failure to establish himself as the undisputed leader of the 5
militant exile forces.

1GN AND/OR,
RMI
Ek

CIA IMFO!
MENT

OBJECTION TO
1

A

ws
Ui

coRELEASE OF

Scns

DECLASSIFi

CIA RAS NO

* WR THIS DOCU

Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras is said to be giving
financial support to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, paramilitary leader of
eof the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (SFNE,

ional Front of the Escambray), the Movimiento Revolu-
dei Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary Movement of the Peopie) ,
and Aipha-66, The purpose of the subsidy is to prevent the
liance from forming close political or @eprationai ties with
RE. According to Cuban exiles in Miami, JURE is. politically toy

@ left cf ail other Cuban exile parties. “Some exiles claim

iat Several Communists, acting as agents for the Castro régime hy
~ have succecded in infiltrating JURE,

t

HW 50953 Docld:32299364 Page 2


ult Cob

re
NA

England, London Hee

4TE ACQ. (19 June 1964). FIELD REPORT NO. f
is THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. "APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE. i,
i

2 June 1964 c

; probably ,

Li nel ] strom a regular soi
e who is i

reliable, in private conversation with a Cuban
independent of any Cuban exile organization.

1. The general opinion among Cuban exiles is that the United States
will not encourage exile groups to mount a major assault on Cubd fl
until after the United States elections. 4

2, The United States, the exiles say, is providing a steady flow of
aid to the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR, Move-
ment for Revolutionary Recovery), which is led by Manuel Ar
Buesa, Some exiles claim that the attack by the MRR on Puerto i
Pilon in May 1964 was launched from the Dominican Republic. The \
is no evidence that Artime is receiving support from the Venezue
Government. His failure to establish personal contact with the 7

Administration (Venezuelan) during his visit to Caracas between .
22-27 May 1964 has provoked criticism in government cireies, Som
disillusionment with the MRR is said to be caused by Artime's \
failure to establish himself as the undisputed jeader of the \
militant exile for 7

3. .Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras is said to be giving ~
financial support to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, paramilitary leader of

the Alliance of the Segundo Frente Nacional'del Escambray (SFNE
Second National Front of the Escambray), the Movimiento Revol
i cionario del Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary Movement of the People),

and Alpha-66, The purpose of the subsidy is to prevent the

Alliance from forming close political or operational ties with
~~ JURE, According to Cuban exiles in Miami, JURE is politically t
the left of all other Cuban exile parties. Some exiles claim
that several Communists, acting as agents for the Cas
have succeeded in infiltrating JURE.

i ; fae
H Leaner =
Is aks AST Leet
[ STATE ay Tarmy |S
REPCINCLANT_CINCSO,#
| Tote: Field diltribution indicated by "#)

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED, = on ciara eee ae

HEREIN {S UNCLASSIFIED = : fe
Ded she or fee ; Ts

HW 50953 DocId:32299364 Page 3
