124-90110-10093]

| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90110-10093
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-75663-56
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 12/21/1959
PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 01/15/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

APPROVAL OF CIA

RPT

v9.1

20

HW 50953 DocId:32334100 Page 1


‘\S

Vick. PRES DE AT NATION wl HEBNK op

esaszyoscisi ar

Ta:
WFO 97-1159 anual of
i MaRS 0.C,-—
ju bro E, =

This information will not be repeated in view
of the fact it is secondhand information and would be
of no value in any Federa roceedings as testimony, It
is noted that on 12/14/59 J NBURTENATEE telephonically con-
tacted SA RICHARD B, KELLOGG and advised that he had
learned from LEOPOLDO ARAGON that the proposed “savind ()

WASAM IR A oy

had taken place on 12/11/59 in the office of I. IRVING
DAVIDSON as scheduled. MIRO had been turned down by
DAVIDSON but would possibly.attempt to go to Nicaragua,
HEURTEMATTE stated that MIRO apparently convinced DAVIDSON
that he was not a communist and was anti-CASTRO, HEURTEMATTS
ommented that this was not tri and stated that he con-
idered MIRO to be worthless, iaacon had told HEURTEMATTE
that MIRO usingthe name CARLOS’ SQUEZ placed_a ca rom
DAVIDSON's office to Panama telephone number (3-7001 d

attempt. talk with/[RALPH MCLA who MIROclaimed was
with CIA, Ss :

The name of {RALPH woramif ea his identity as a
CIA representative has been set forth in the details of
this report to give a complete picture of the activities
of MIRO and also to show hi, odus operandi. It is noted
that the identity of (MCLAT d:his connection with CIA
is apparently well known as evidencedby the fact that the
ena. JOSEPH pane made available to HEURTEMATTE, DAVIDSON,

and JOSEPH}MEROLA of Miami Beach,..Rlorida, through the
endeavors da conversation of MIRO. It is felt by WFO
that other individuals have also been apprised of this
information by MIRO in attempts to find backing for an
invasion of Panama, Due to the rygtements made by MIRO
concerning the backing by|MCLA his vasion efforts,
this report will be classified "Secret.

The Special Agents who observed ARAGON and MIRO
enter 1612 K Street, N.W., on 12/11/59, were KELLOGG,
JAMES CALVIN CONRAD, and CARROLL J. HUNT. It is noted
that SA CONRAD observed DAVIDSON, ARAGON, and MIRO depart
1612 K Street, N.W., at 6:07 p.m., 12/11/59.

Bureau airtel, 12/15/59, instructed WFO to _
submit recommendations concerning further investigative
efforts regarding MIRO. Due to the fact that ARAGON
does not desire to testify for fear of reprisals by MIRO,
it is felt that successful prosecution of the subject
with the information available is doubtful. It is noted
that ARAGON has furnished the only documentary evidence

c

ccc SFORET

i
| NW 50953

DoclId:32334100 Page 2



; UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
st FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

a ‘SECRET _ -

Copy tor INS, District Office, WDC; US Customs, WDC; INS, Miami;
US Customs, Miami;.0ST, MACDILL, AFB; G-2, Fort McPherson,
Georgia; ONI, Sixth Naval District,DIO, Charleston, S.C.

+959) oe Soe CS ;

Repodt of: HERBERT J, MORGAN, “JR. w Office Washington, D. C.
oe DEC 2 4 1959
Pola Office Pile # 97-1159 Bureau File #: 105~75663
bin RUBEN OSCAR, MIRO GUARDIA i
B20 wi |
cuassineo et Sole SWIPE
DECLASSIFY ON. 25% ! )
Character INTERNAL secular 2 PANAMA; REGISTRATION ACT-~ PANAMA; — N

wea he

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Synopels: ~

chet, oe ROE

Sareey : IN Ti :
Subject met I, IRVING DAVIDSON at DAVIDSON's office 12/8/59. i
Desired assistance of DAVIDSON for invasion of Panama ‘in !
January, 1960. Again met at same place with DAVIDSON and !
LEOPOLDO ARAGON, 12/9/59 and 12/11/59, Discussed above |
invasion plans.. MIRO told DAVIDSON he had support of Us |

- Government for invasion. DAVIDSON told MIRO 12/11/59, he |
had checked with > US Government agency and could not
verify any backing Sd MIRO. DAVIDSON told ‘RO he would

a

give no assistance. TRO, 1d DAVIDSON that {RALPH MCLAIN J©
CIA representative, name[xjcould verify support of US for
MIRO, Subject interviewéd 12/17/59. At first denied above
and later stated he did not desire to discuss the matter.
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
iit tte DECLASSIFS ¢ ANDIGR,
‘ RELEASE OF ClA INFORMATION
DETAILS: AT WASHINGTON, D. C. IN THIS DOCUMENT, C¥S 977, BAR eS

On November 2, 1959, Mr. 0. A. VOPE, Assis fob 9h \

Records Chief, District Office, Immigration and Naturalization

Service, furnished the file pertaining to the subject to
SA GENE P. COLE, at which time the following information was |
-_ obtained: we |
(

(CLASSIFIED EXCEPT

ERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

TION CONTALNED

HEREIN IS

jigs

o 2 7 On October 1, 1959, MIRO, 2901 Park Drive, S.E.,
2
a
aD

INS
REVIEWED BY 2BI/JFK TASK FORDE 1r0RMA

egpoorod before Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
cial Inquiry Officer A. GOLD, at Washington, D. C. He hed no

nbs

simp gration visa in violation of Immigration and Naturalization ©
° ast 212 (a) (20). On application the same date, MIRO was issued
_ deoB-2 visa valid until October 31, 1959. a

23 <2) ‘+ #SBCRET :
Bae emtains neither recommendations nor con:

Tong of The FBI. It ts the property iis loaned to
\ Your agency; it and ite contents are not to be distributed cute ; :
\ ae 4,

|
| HW 50953 DocId:32334100 Page 3

t



i
I

, PB-802 (Rew, 12-20-57) \ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIC ““7N
! INTERVIEW REPORT ~~/

; i: Hale 12/15/59

‘SECRET

On December 11, 1959, I. IRVING DAVIDSON GS
telephonically advised that RUBEN MIRO and LEOPOLDO ARAGON
were present at his, DAVIDSON's, office when he arrived a
4:45 p.m. Upon‘his arrival DAVIDSON stated that ARAGON ~
Advised that he, ARAGON, and MIRO didnot see "eye to eye
on ‘things." ARAGON said that although he is sympathetic
with MIRO's cause, that is, the planned invasion to overthrow
the Panamanian Government, ke ‘oes not believe that the

United States Government is going to do whatever MIRO
wishes.

DAVIDSON said he told MIRO and ARAGON that he
checked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and
the United. States Department of State and both the FBI
and the State Department are unaware as to the "green light"
for the Panama invasion. DAVIDSON stated at this point

; ’ ¢hat he told MIRO hé’was quite angry because MIRO was only
talking about the "green light" backing by the United States.
DAVIDSON advised that MIRO thep, wanted long di, dpnce
telephone. cal}. to be placed ‘ove RA] MC tamyfe

elephone
ered PAGE 5)PanamaCity,..panama' [MIRO said that [MC LATINAS)
is an ent “for the Central Intelligence Agency and tbat
MIRO's code name is 0S VASQUEZ when dealing wi ta uC tani),

Although the telephone call was placed it was
without success.’ The call was then postponed until Monday,
December 14,1959, and DAVIDSON stated it would be placed from
his office at 10 a.m.

i : s
< MIRO-also stated that {uc LAIN

)

. to Miami in April, 1959, and detérmine at MIRO was tWfen
in New York City. MIRO said that/MC LAIN. en came to
NewYork to find MIRO and encourage an in’ ion plan by
MIRO. :

me from. Panama

DAVIDSON stated that MIRO acted very discouraged
at this December 11, 1959, meeting and requested that
DAVIDSON try to arrange for a job in Nicaragua so he,

Interview with __1:_ IRVING DAVIDSON File ¢ NEO 97-1159

12/11/59

by Special Agent __DONALD HOETING /bsb

Property of FBI This report ia loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the
loaned.

agency to which
Boggs
te | as SECRFT

at Washington, D. C. Date dictated __12/14/59

1
i
{
t

i
1

Lm

50953 Docld:32334100 Page 4


FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59) * EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA\._
' INTERVIEW REPORT

= ,
7 oY ‘ Date

sent

. On December 1h, 1959, Miss PATRICIA BOLAND,
Secretary. to I. IRVING DAVIDSON, Suite 306, 1612 K LY
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C., telephonically adviser
that RUBEN MIRO visited DAVIDSON's office at 10:30 a.m.
December > 1959, to place telephone call to
\LPH McLAIN Selephone number|{ 37001,/ Panama City,
fanama . S ‘s)

December 16, 1'

E Miss BOLAND stated that after one and. one half
hours MIRO wa‘ iyi pnsuccessful in getting his call

through” To fetal na MIRO’ decided to have his call
transferre 2 MIRO's, wife in Panama.

s é After the termination of the call to MIROts
wife, MIRO stated to Miss BOLAND he would telephone
DAVIDSON later that day. . Miss BOLAND stated MIRO
never calléd back'as he said hé wowld. Miss BOLAND
Said MIRO'’s conversation with his wife was in Spanish,
a language she does not understand.

Interview with ___Miss PATRICIA BOLAND File #__WFO 97-1159
12-14-59 |, _ Washington, D. C. . Dote dictoted __ 22720799

by Special Agent DONALD HOETING pep : : fT

‘This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It ts the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 50953 DocId:32334100 Page 5



FD-302 (Rev.'3-3-59) > -IDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAY *
INTERVIEW REPORT

SECRET

: On December 15, 1959, I. IRVING DAVIDSON,

1612 K Street, N.W., telephonically advised that he

returned to Washington, D. C., from Miami during the

evening of December 14, 1959, and, therefore, was not

present when MIRO arrived at his, DAVIDSON's, office at

10:30 a.m,, December 14, 1959. DAVIDSON ait that MIRO
fanama.

Date December 16, 1959 _

was to make a telephone call at that timefto/RALPH MC LAIN S$
at telephone number [37001 ‘anama City,

DAVIDSON stated that according to his secr By
Miss PATRICIA BOLAND, MIRO placed. the call to[MC tanh
after one and one half hours without success, MIRO had the
eas transferred to his, MIRO's, wife who resides in
anama «

DAVIDSON said that he does not plan to engage
in any activities with MIRO and is not going to request
MORALES of the Nicaraguan Embassy to find a job in
Nicaragua for MIRO.

Interview with 1. IRVING DAVIDSON _ . File # _WFO 97-1159 __
on 12/15/59 at Date dictated 12/15/59

by Special Agent DONALD HOETING:pep/vih SECRET
‘This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.’ roperty of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not te be distributed outside your agency.

as

Ao HEEE

HW 50953 DocId:32334100 Page 6
