/124-10181-10009)

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI

Date:

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10181-10009
RECORD SERIES: LO
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-358-42
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: -
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
SEE FBI 62-109060-3385
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/24/1994
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

vol
HW 50953 DocId:32174913

3/25/201

Page 1


GIA HAS. NO OBJECTION TO
. DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

UMENT,
AIRTEL, By TH OOGNET o efolts

TO DIRECTOR, FBI (62~109060)
PROM LEGAT, LONDON (62-358) (RUC)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY 11/22/63,
DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS ~ INFORMATION CONCERNING

&)
On 6/22/64, | «CEA, Londoay on a
highly confidential basis, furnished the following information

Thigf¢onversation occurred en 5/8/64 and was
between MARIO RIVA“PATTERSON, Counselor, Cuban Smbassy, don
and an unidentified male visitor, possibly a Colombian.
conversation was in Spanish and indistinct at tines J information
is as follows:

S,

<The visitet htter @ question half of which is
not heardlasks if in the case of the ass nation of
KENNEDY (?) FOSTER (ph and tagistinct fhe ever in
Cuba. RIVA veplies in the negative. ys that this man
applied for a visa toe go to Cuba at the Consulate in Tam-
pico, He was refused a visa. Had he been to Cuba he would
have had his passport.

VISITOR: "A typical F.B.I. job.

RIVA: “A thing ¢una cosa) of the Imperialists - to kill
him in the end ~ really disgusting -"

it is possible that the individual referred to
above as FOSTER may have beom OSWALD. Above furnished for the
Bureau's information. .

3 ~ Bureau p
- Liaison (sent direct)
ij- London

CWB:rn
: 5)
ALLINFORMG@TION CONTAINED
EIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
GTHERWISE.

fA

RW 50953 DocId:32174913 Page 2

