124-90 106-10035]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90106-10035
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: _ 105-117222-132
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: BRENNAN
TO: SULLIVAN
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/08/1963
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
COMMANDOS L
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN
_DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO

vO.

HW 50953 DocId:32333179 Page 1


== — re
M emoravediim

conse, oo igen 4 24

TO =
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION To Fel
FROM : Mr. D. J. B: RELA 5 pee ae
. D. J. Bronnan, Jr~/ Tai OF CIA INFORMATION ——
0 IN THIS DOCUMENT,

SUBJECT: paapery L KP 349.4 Boke ou Whe le

INTERNAL SECUGHTY-CUBA
The captioned organization, consisting of anti-Castro Cuban
refugees, periodically has come to our attention in connection with
raids planned or directed against Cuba. esmond Fitzgerald, CIA a
furnished the following to the Liaison Agent. on 10/7/63.) gl

. Pursuant to instructions from the White House, CIA i:
currently exploring the possibilities of collaborating with this
organization in promoting activities directed against the Castro
Government, This will include raids against Cuba. . All such raids
would be initiat amas and it will

be necessary for y (s) \

Fitzgerald requested that this information not be disseminated
outside of the Bureau and he further asked that if the Bureau \received
any information concerning Commandos L activities, such data not be
disseminated to the British without first consulting with CIA.

ACTION:

The Nationalities Intelligence Section has been informed
concerning the above. If approved, we will not disseminate ria
tion to the British without pales con; ul ting with CIA. “ad
1- Mr. Belmont /A¢man Raven ne ;

.1 = Mr, Sullivan 3 Soars
1 - Mr. Wannalh.).1: y

1 - Mr. Nasca 1: ¢ e

1 - Liaison Ty ?

1 - Mr. Papich py

SJP:chs

HW 50953 DocId:32333179 Page 2
