# 124-10257-10307

## Page 1

124-10257-10307

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10257-10307

MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 80-10-225

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO : FILE

TITLE :

DATE:

01/13/1978

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, TRA, TRIP TO MEXICO 9/26/63

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IA

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

V9.1

NH 52333 DocId: 32192373

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DATE:

1-13-78

ATTNOF: LEGAI

SUBJECT:

ATTACKS AGAINST THE FBI

TO:

FILE (80-10).

SECRET

LITED STATES GOVERNMENT

memorandum

ALI NORMATION ONTARIED

HERE

AS UNCLAS

23. 200/m

DATE

17 93

JFK

As shown in my memorandum of 12-13-77, the Bureau

identified some of the materials in the KENNEDY investigation

which were released on 12-7-77 as those which apparently

attracked the attention of at least one reporter from a

Mexican newspaper in Washington.

Mr. ROBERT DUNN, the

Ambassador's Assistant, was in Washington the following

weekend and brought back with him three separate sections

which had been furnished to him at the Bureau.

These sections

represent the 524 page report of former SA WARREN C. DE

BRUEYS at Dallas on 12-8-63. One section, pages 315 - 359,

relates to the Mexican travel of LEE HARVEY OSWALD. To date,

there have been no articles of a sensational nature appearing

in the Mexican press based on this material.

78 ought

to this office a set

En ad a set ot do sents which had been torwardeh

by his Headquarters which appeared to represent raw Bureau

file material pertaining to the Mexican aspects of the OSWALD

investigation.

At his suggestion, copies of thesedocument?

were made for temporary retention

in the files of this office

and the set furnished by - -s returned to him on 1-6-78.

For the time being, all of this material is being

placed in a Bulky Exhibit Envelope of captioned file so

that it will be available for reference if needed.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

'CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

OTHERWISE

RELCASC OF CIA INFOMMATION

IN THIS DOrL T Askedaited

80-10

105-3702 (OSWALD)

1304213mB

RP 4/22/97

sired By 180s 190/ma

Declassify on OADA

80-10-225

"O NAT DESTROY.

WE FOR SELEGT

& PER BOLET 8-15.77'1

j.Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

rus Governmant Printing @file: i

8i-.

SECRET

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

(REV. 7-78)

GSA FPMR (AI CER, 101-11.8

5010182

LHO

NH 52333

DocId: 32192373

Page 2

---

