124-90141-10001] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: 5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90141-10001
RECORD SERIES :. HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 105-92413-46
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: | 04/11/1961
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
QUINTIN PINO MACHADO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: = 1A.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 05/12/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : AT

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32338205 Page 1


FD-36 (Rey. 12-13-56) O
uae ae

Transmit the following in

Via ___ATRTEL CLASSIFIED BY Sbb8_ ob Pk:
ict i: -=-4=-(Priority or Method of Mailing)

; TI

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-92413)

®)
wD no SAC, WFO (105-38673)
qumrrm pmcCuacnano
TS - CUBA

Me

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of 6
a letterhead memo dated and captioned as above.

The inf ant mentioned in enclosed letterhead
memo ss ad 1278-5" ISG

The enclosed letterhead memo is classified
"Confidential" inasmuch as it reveals our investigative
intéFest in nyeite Neon official of a foreign power. It

is also classified "Confidential" inasmuch as the data
reported thergin could possibly result in the identification -
of .a, confidentialinformant of continuing value and
compromise thie Pure effectiveness thereof.

ae re

Bureau (Enc-9)

2-WFO
(fplos- -39771
aay
5 ig
AuRAEL L “/Q5—Fh 413 -

CSSE Renze ooMEe

J Ay ‘i? APA LA 1968

83-44

4 4Spegial Agent in Charge
fuk: f

| HW 50953 DocId:32338205 Page 2



“CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
_DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE GE CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT,
As SAWITIZED
AIRTEL
Mit
Piro Z
TOs DIRECTOR, FBE (105-92413)

Classified hy
Dectassity an: al
QUINTIN FINO MACHADO | assiriED BY SZe% Sta

. DECLAREIEY Oi gex G2

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copics of : |
a letterhead memo dated and captioned as above. t

FROM: SAC, WFO (105~38673)

fhe informant mentioned in enclosed lettorhead
meno isfWF 1278-St, (a .

The enclo: letterhead memo is classified
"Confidential" inasmuch as it reveals our investigative
interest in a diplomatic official of a foreign power. It
is also classified “Confidential" inasmuch as the data
reported therein could possibly result in the identification
-of a confidential informant of continuing value and
‘compromise the future effectiveness thereef.

ify £

P\
- @eureau (Ene-~9)

>a 0s-39771 regi)

JES2MIB
(5)

LE 50953 Docld:32338205 Page 3
