# 124-10201-10416

## Page 1

124-10201-10416

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10416

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-79985-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRENNAN, D. J. JR

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPÉ :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

09/27/1963

4

WDP, ANTI-CASTRO ACT, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1A; 1B

Redact

03/24/1997

APPROVAL OF CIA

v9.1

HW 45905

DocId: 32289640

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Lep.

DRi ONAL PORM NU

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

NT

TO

: Mix. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : Mr. D. J. Grenhan:

PONSECRET

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Cosper

Callahon

.?Conrad

DoLoach

TE: 5/11/832/27198 S08 MACSH.(OR

hassified by SP P

Declassify on: OADio. s

Gordy

SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ICRIVITZES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

During the past dew weaks

the Curses has Hoc.svoe informa-

tion from time to "ino concepaias anti-Castro activities based in

Nicaragua.

Tnis information

had suggested

that Caban exiles probably

were in the process of organizing ancier invasion force.

We do

kNOW

that hanuel Artine, a prominent Coban exile,

has head spendingg

considerable time in Nicarague allegecly organizing erilesland we

so know that he has boch succine suppor

Xon 9/25/63,

the Liaison Agont met withhonzy heckcher

CIA, for the purpose ofl

actermining where CIA fits into the picture in Nicaragua.

Such

information naturally is useful to us as we plai and supervise our

investigations of cabane in this country.

Hecksher furnished the

SHOWN

following:

(S)

5

He made reference to information developed üy the

Bureau

concerning a high-level necting of Cuban exiles which allegodly was

neld in New Jork City in july,

1363.

our inforuation indicuted that

HEREIN

FACEPT WHE

OTHERWISE

the meeting involved American and Cubar businessmen and that one of

trose in attencance vas a it. Campbell

sennilined 2s che Commercial

Attache of theü. S

ambassy inAustralia

The Zureau sousce, badCa

suggested that Campucti might be identical

=(51

ciA intelligence officer gho had been assigned

in Cuba ac one tir

recksher scatce

meeting and tas loradvein tency does not inow anything doout thi

has been stationed in Australia for tillS

Erldwell was in the J. s. for

the middle of august out he has not been involved in any Cubai

matters since his nestenment

Australia&

Heclasher

nen reierred to intormation received from th

Bureau concernine

the activities of Lug Songue,

former. Presiden

STA REVERSE

SIDE FOR

ALASPIFICATION

of Nicaragua.

he steted that CiA is not

jovolved in any intelli

operation with Somoza.

He further elaborated by euphasizing that

CIA is not organizing

any Cubar invasion

force ir any countries.

With regard to Sonoza,

he commedted thut Che has recrired numerous

reports and

rinors regardingSonora"s

activities

his alleged

connection witr

the. U.S. Goverfment

He advised

that for several: S

-

-

-

Belmon:

HT e

Sul:1:22

Mr.

Hannall

Mr

Nasca

Lirison

Papac':

SuP :chs

(7)

ista

in it ins

109-550003

0051630( Prio)

62. 0815P Paula 62-29985-

SERPET

NOT RECORDeD

133 OCT 9 1963

ORIGINAL

HW 45905 DocId: 32289640

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memo Brennan to Sullivan

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

SECRET

months somoza has been championing a pian,

allegedly designed by

üim, which nas as its objective to ove throw the Castro Government.

The plan essentially consists of training Cure exiles in Nicaragua

and would also involve collaboration fion other Central American

countries including Nicaragua.

Kennedy Administration

has

looked

lat this plan and has disapproved it. Hevertheless, Somoza has

not

hesitated to use the name of the u.

starement.

which he freely passes out to many, sourcee. Mactshe emphasized (5

that statements made by Somoza regarding the purchase of

arms and

anmunition with the support of the U. ". Government sre false.

Somoza has told people that President Jennedy approved the so called

"Somoza Plan" at the time of tho conference of Central, American

lenders in san Jose, Costa Rica in 196..

Somoza has stated that at

this conterence the

President gave Somoza nig full blescing.

ing to Hecksher, this is absolutely false. Hecksher also understands LS.

that somoza met with Secretary si State Rusk at no recent American

Legion! convention and discussed

his. plin

Sonoza allegedly left this

meeting in a rage because Rusk "chopped

Lig" ine entire Somoza Plan.

¡ith regard to CIA operations, Hecksher advinod that his LS.

agency follows only prograns which have

Deon approved by the White

ROuSE.

He pointed out that these programs are reviewed sy the task

force which includes the Attorney Goneral, Secretary of State Rusk,

McNamara of Desense,

Bundy of the White House and ilcCone.

decisshe Ravised that pursuant to the directicas from

White House, CiA Still has the responsibility of running intelligence

operations inside Cuba, the purpose of which is to collect intelli-

gence information regarding Cuben and Soviet forces, intentions, and

capabilitics. These responsibilities continue to include the

necessity of maintaining contact with suban exiles who possibly

might be useful.

In addition, Cia is making a point of maintaining

Liaison with Cuban exile leaders and organizations vho are in 3

position to assist in obtaining intelligence information inside Cuba

and who have the potential to organize forces for the penetration

or possible invasion of the country.S

He advisec thai CIA has a vory significant interest in the

(Potential of Manuel Artime, a Cuban ezile leader who bas been

• spend-

ing considerable time in Nicaragua.

The Nicaraguan Governmeni has

porniited Artine to use cortain land ir Nicarague.

Such land a.

some date in the future might be utilized for the training of

SECRET

-2-

MH 45905 DocId: 32289640 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Niemo Brennan to Sullivan

Re:

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

SECRET

invaSIOn TOrce.

so far there des i betty iraning activity:

in Nicaragua.

Artime is spending most of his tine conferring with

Cuban exiles who might collaborate with him.

As it stands, he does

not have a military force under his supervision.

CIA has been fur-

nashing him some financial assistance and does conder with him on a

regular basis. Hecksher confessed that Artine so far is just "scratch-LS

the surface'

and there was much work to de cone.

In the meantime,

it is anticipated that Artime will encounter numerous problems such

as conflicts and differences with other ezile leaders.

Iccording to Hecksher, ciA dnes not have ans

invading forces (s)

i Nicaragua and has not deposited any arms or ammunition in th

country.

he further emphasized that cia has not been acquiring ar

planes for the use of any invasion of Cuba.

[recksher stated that IS

eventually, It Artime is successful in obiaining adequate support from

exiles, CIA might assist him by furnishing arms and equipment. This

will be a White House decision.

He further conmented that if

arms

are furnished to Artime very likely the material will pass through

Nicaraguan Government channels in order to remove any connection

with the U. S. Government.d

Stated that Somoza has been in regular contact with Carlos

With rosara to the "donoza Blan" mentioned, above, llecksherJ(31

SocorraS,

former Cuban Pregicent and with Willian Fauley, former

U. S. Ambassador. decksher stated that CIA definitely is not LS

utilizing Prio or

Pauley in any capacity.

The agency is most

interested in any information the Bureau receives concerning the

activities of these men.!

ACTION:

For information.

REGSEGRET

-3 -

NW 45905 DocId: 32289640

Page 4

---

