124-10284-10177) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

6/8/2015

Agency Information

FBI
124-10284-10177

HQ

CR 105-37216-18, 19

ORIGINATOR :
FRO!
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

* RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
JOHNSON, EDWIN 0.
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/18/1958

7

EPE, CULTURAL EXCHANGE, IMPROVE, MX, RUSS,
RELATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

06/03/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

TNC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

HW 50953 DocIld:32303665

Page 1


- Report ire
FD-263-) 5-:

a a/s8: 10/255 t1/6; 04
Teportvande by 7

EDWIN. Oe. JOHNSON
oa CHARACTER WOE’ CASE i

Reporting Office,

"MEXICO, Ds P
Fear CASE:

Office of Origin

~ BUREAU

‘(Geioan -AUSStA" river rum5 OF:
CULTURAL -EXCHANGE) » - G14
GUADALAJARA, JALISCO ese ine:

BECLASSIEYO

a NTH DOCUMENT. Seb ee

The

Bynog

. Juarez 682, Guadalajara,’ ee Mexicd. = Attorney: ARTURO!.
RIVAS’ SAENZ is acting as Director-of this organizations :

, Its. premises: wéré inaugurated on. October 25, 31958, with one
‘of the speakers: being. BORIS.A. KAZANTSEV, “First. Secretary .

‘of. the Soviet. Embassy, Mexico City.- The announced _purpose.

. of the ‘organization. is’ the exchange of scultural. material’

> to improve Mexican-Russian relations a: under’ standings

“ About two. hundred people attended. the inauguration. . Names.

“of; some of the. “people who - attended set out: At a mee ting: ~

« hela November “11, 1958, _the-, work, of subject ork anization out
was discussede . Fs _

DATE. FORW.

IW’ FORW, 2. ~
i Bees

“Spatial ‘agent =]
vin Charge

Bureau (Los=37216
-American Embassy (a: ‘and jonas
“Mexico Ci v(cireulation
onsuliite, Guadala Jara i.
1" = Mexico onty. 205-3 567) * on

pe UAT 18) 72

TPigperty of Far tnis Feport is Toanea to.

et ae a

HW 50953 DocIld:32303665 Page 2

