124-10278-10129] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/12/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10278-10129

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-86025-7TH NR 34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, NY
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/21/1962
PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :
LCA, ASSOC, ACA, TRA, URUGUAY, POLIT ACT, MEETINGS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

vo. 1
NW 50953 DocId:32301294 Page 1


STATES cov” Naent otN
AA pg nth ac
Memorandum
To : DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584) pate: 2/21/62
r
/ L, i ‘one NEW YORK (105: ee pai \ Shim ce
“FROM ¢ AG 5 ial seifie
<>) Case oe 0n0R/ CSE. the
O Declasel Mellel eses
SUBJECT: “AN TT-FIDEL CASTRO, AGTEVEDES: VES S33 ¢ Cexkrva)
IS-CUBA eT OLASS XCEPT

A
UNCLASSIF! 1 3efn109 08" (vagmn)

OWN OTHERWISE, paiesfine NY
Wine sal . AG tttad

ReMvlet to Director, 1/12/62, ana wy “> * ors (CF )
airtel to Director, 1/24/62, both captioned as a AS
adie Luis Contre “dau GRD »)

The following informition is: peing submitted” es 4
© the Bureau, Miami, and WFO, for t#@ir information ~ Lost
: H ®

)

\

iO

x

&

&

idance in matters pertaining to anti-FIDEL
0 activities. This information will not be
alttea in form suitable for dissemination
cause the contents of this letter reflect the
terests of the US Department of State (USDS)
also the interests of the Central Intelligence

cy (oz) 10) (u) . Vv
st ~~ ‘

ERNESTO “ARAGON-GODOY, 233 East 69th

ecretary to Dr. JOSEYMIRO;|CARDONA, wy

te
cs
c

ny,
dene-of the Cuban Revolutionary Council,
was erviewed by the NYO on 2/15/62 relative to
his recent trip to Montevideo and Punta del Este

nay, to attend the meeting of the Foreign CIA HAS NO OBJECT!
sters of the Organization of American StatesDE
ich was held in ‘Uruguay from 1/22/62 RE PORN
3/29/62. IN THIS DOCUMENT. exter

7 SE PSL BEMETS|
fhe following is an itinerary and chronological yy ies t sf sg
“OF g

‘\ yeport furnished by ARAGON on 2/15/62 of his activities
= and those of Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA during their recent —
a a eCemennny 7 a
I = Bareau (3095584) (rat -REGT]| CLASSIFIED BY SZGE SLDIKSE

7 Hops (205-4 7te) o20) coats) aA
~ Washington Fle. = Oo 7 =
Se (SFR
ven! ; g (
by [bx - Soans -

New York (105-35253)
~134-7027 ) (INV)
< MOT RECORDED

102-mar G 1962

G2MAR 6 1962

HW 50953 DocId:32301294 Page 2


| NY tee | SECRET

DEA, USK also stated as did ROBERT HURWITCH
that he thougitit was best for MIRO CARDONA to go to .
ne rally in Montevideo’on 1/22/62 and to go to
Punta del Este. DEAN RUSK said. to MIRO CARDONA
that it would be best that MIRO CARDONA be present
in Uruguay as "they, MIRO and RUSK, can divide the
Cuban insults".. During the course of this meeting
ROBERT HURWITCH of the USDS was present and acted
as interpreter. ARAGON stated that the meeting
lasted about 15 minutes.

After meeting with RUSK, MIRO and ARAGON
discussed their passport and visa problems with
HURWITCH and HURWITCH stated that there would be no
difficulty and that they should go’ to the US Consul
in Montevideo, Uruguay, and pick up their. resident
visas after they arrive there.

After leaving the State Department,
ARAGON advised that MIRO CARDONA made a telephone
call to their CIA contact in Miami, Fla., and
informed him of the decision of, the USDS for MIRO
and ARAGON to go to uruguay. CBYU)

ARAGON stated. that MIRO's CIA contact in.
‘Miami, Fla., is Army Colonel by the
“name of[JOHNSON resided in Massachus:
cand he iS“kAdwi to the Cubans as\"JUANITO". :

1/29/62

B ARAGON returned to NY to pick up the
..necessary papers he needed for travel and clothing
and then departed NYC at 6 p.m. for Miami, Fle.

‘1/20/62

ARAGON and MIRO CARDONA departed Miami,
Fla., via Panagra at 12:45 a.m., 1/20/62, and had
stops in Panama City, Panama, Lima, Peru, Santiago
de le, Buenos Aires, Brazil, and finally arrived
tevideo at 8:30 p.m. on 1/20/62. ARAGON stated

si
a
3

ee

Fos!

a a i : ae

HW 50953 DocId:32301294 Page 3
