7124-10168-10040|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDI

ENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ty)

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10168-10040

RECORD_SERIES:; HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116391-41X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH, SAM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 03/13/1970

PAGES: 85
SUBJECT: CIA ACT, ANTI-CASTRO ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 11/03/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001
STATUS Redact ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(A)
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)
COMMENTS: EBF, INC ADMIN PAGES

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 1


FROM

SUBJECT

Me

)

OTN EES GOVER?

=A

N

He z
Licmorandum | “ae =. 4 e
7 Kickefeller Coma ssitrd

Tne Director
CLASS. & EXT.
* REASON-PCIM II,
SA ‘Sam Papich * DATE OF REVIEW

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

/ RELATIONS WITH CIA HEREIN IS UNCLASS1¥LED woe bectissed

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN Dohv E Bacar/ Ththe
OTHERWISE

to

lettors dated March 2 and

arch 5, 1970, I- stated "it
t the Bureau can also produce
devances.". It is my unde:
red that this lisv be identivicd.
approximately 75 items.)

not be considered absolutely commlete,
on ny personal recollection
To i this List m

Td necousd

yt inn
of the alleged CIA gr3

ize that it is presumptuous on my part, but
t4£ the our Bure: can beneskit by a
Iper n the D stor and my:clft, I am

Javad

1976, I plan to leave the area
jAmne:

an extended period,

ACTION: j . RED Fis 63- £67 50 - VAs

aye antes ernat ite

For information, Vs
‘ CHA HAS NO OBJECTION (T
Enclosure DECLAESIFICATION ANDAR
oe RELEACE OF CIA I

r. Deloach

SJP : camels
()

2h,

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 2


Sbuel .
By

“CENTRAL INT:

-LIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 :

- “OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

-

20 March,1970

i BleheTED Re.3
KP sige

The Honorable.J.. Edgar Hoover
Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Weshington, D.C.

SY Se swoon

Os ate fULW.
(SE) ake LG

We have completed our review of domestic positive intelligence

collection ¢ dered by your letter of 11 Masxch 1970. We warmly
welcome periodic reexamination by our two agencies of the implemen.

tation O17 the 1900 agreeimiesne aud vue CUllecelus Ul pos
which you proposed. I! concur alse with your comments that there is
a need for close coordi of our efforts in the field of positive. and
counterintelligence collection. To be most effective, l agree that it
is essential for gether with your Bureau, to conduct a
continuing analy of clandestine collection activity. The product is
of growing importance to the national security and to the United States
intelligence Cornmunity, Therefore we endorse your proposal for a
reexamination and bespeak your desires as to how this might be
conducted.

With regard to the 1966 set of ground rules, which you sent to /~#/

the then Director, Vice Admiral William F, Raborn, Jr., the compe é

ytent work of our respective representatives did, in fact, produce an

effective and realistic agreement. Iwelcorne your statement that no
major problems have been encountered since its adoption.

y

ona

I feel strongly that there are other related subjects, of similar
SS importance to the national security, which warrant periodic reexamina-
“~ ‘tion since they have a direct bearing on domestic clandestine collection
& of positive intelligence. RECS #

is

=

=

va be

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 3


_/ that the following subjects are desexving of your personal consideration:

‘As a result of our review, engendered by your letter, I believe

‘Audio coverige provides timely ©
intelligence of inestimable worth to U.S. officials for
policy planning, early warning, and accurate guidance’
necessary for the improvement-of operational and collec-
tion activity here and abroad. Audio coverage is unique

| production because it-is:readily subject to local cross-.

checking and evaluation which is far more difficult and
costly to achieve abroad, Further, such coverage is on
targets which affect directly the national interests.

For several years your Bureau had been recep-

which cannot be duplicated by any other U.S. agency.

On 2 October 1969 two-related requests for audio «
coverage were submitted by this Agency pertaining to
positive intelligence targets, one of whom had KGB connec-
tions. (I refer to the case of @RQEEMERREand GREASE
CRS.) Your Bureau replied that henceforth the
Agency should refer all such cases directly to the Attorney
General for approval. é

It is suggested that the question of audio coverage
beireopened between representatives of your Bureau and
this Agency. I would welcome your thoughts and observa-~
tions on this subject.

I wish to assure you that I believe that this sensitive
type of collection should be implemented under rigid and
stringent controls, This is absolutcly necessary in order to
maintain the highest standard of security both in instituting
the coverage and for the exploitation of the product. (An
excellent example of this is demonstrated in your effective
and secure production of SCOPE. ) J$)

SECRET

AW 50953

DoclId:32169180 Page 4



7° 4 (2) Mail Coverage. Another much needed intelli-)
: gence tool ‘is mail-coverage.. -Its importance hasbeen eee
proven in the past. Ihave the impression that it has
Been discontinued, aad I'would suggest that our represen-
-ltatives should confer and examine together whether this
asset might be deployed against communications of the
wy, ARoviet Pee New Left, and identified foreign agents.
” (3) CIA Technical Services. A. significant expendi-
: ture of this Agency's. money and personnel has been com~
mitted to research and development for the improvement
* lof technical aids. This Agency has provided your Bureau
with an appre jon of our resources and capabilities, and
has offered you at cost or gratis our most sophisticated if

Ai S i
: \- i Althov@h we will continue these services, we would welcome
any suggestions from your Bureau for improvement in the ;
technical field including proposals how these assets can be :
better employed. Your comments will be particularly

appreciated in view of our mutual interests in implementing

(4) Courses in Positive Intelligence Requirements and
Reporting, Since,the collection and reporting of positive
foreign intelligence is, as you say, only incidental to your
‘main internal security and counterintelligence responsibili-
ties, I realize that your personnel are somewhat at a dis-
advantage in carrying out the evaluating and reporting
processes necessary for the conduct of positive intelligence.
At our 1966 conference we offered to institute positive intel-

eee training courses, including reports writing and

. se phe deeleon lecenhlee ctarenece L.
i fection! ercfctbipivar Cuthee Cin | :
La ‘.” SEGRET

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 5



analysis, for FBI personnel. | In soliciting your ‘views on

| the.desirability. of this typeof training, I wish to reiterate an
our willingness to provide such instruction. It would be
designed to expose the needs of the Intelligence Community
in depth, thus making the Current Intelligence Reporting
List (CIRL) more meaningful to your personnel,

‘growing sophistication and increased capabilities of hostile
intelligence services, it is suggested that CIA and FBI
experts in this field meet as required at our respective
Headquarters, the Washington and New York Field Offices,
in order to keep abreast of new developments, modus
operandi, operational tasks, and diverse missions of

: opposition services. I know that you will agree with me
that‘no opportunities for improvement should be over-

might help to negate the effarts of hostile

services who are charged with undermining the security
of the United States. These sessions should also provide
an opportunity to explore and devise new means to pene-
trate and neutralize these inimical forces.

(6) Live Bloc Sources. The record of our coopera~
|: ae tion and coordination to exploit live penetrations and defec-
- tors from Bloc sources proves the success of our mutual

effort, : i

"I believe that there is room for substantial improve-
ment in achieving a more uniform and efficient exploitation

a of the positive intelligence potential of certain of these

: Sensitive sources. I would invite your thoughts on how we
may better coordinate requirements for these sources and
establish a more thorough evaluation of their positive :
intelligence production before it is given general dissemina-
tion within the Government. Our review would suggest that
there are good reasons for consultation to explore ‘the
development of higher quality live sources, for example

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 6

(8) Séraitars’ on Opposition Services: Givein'the’ = ©"



(7) Live’ Sources'in the Non-Bloc Area. Sources
such as d diplomats are a fertile field for ©
ecded intelligence relating to the

activities of certain Latin Ame ican and Middle Eastern”
‘lcountries which are éxpanding their subversive and “~~
terrorist activities, even tothe. United States.. Ido not. e
feel confident that both agencies have adequately exploited
the full potential of this field, and would urge that this
subject be explored by our respective representatives

procurement of much-

(8) New Left and Racial Matters. There is already
a substantial exchange of information in this field. Limi-
tations of manpower raise a serious question as to whether
both agencies can keep pace with future unpredictable
developments, The increasingly close connection between
these forces in the United States and hostile elements
abroad has been well established by both of our agencies.

I feel it would be in our mutual interest to determine how
we can best enwiov more wisely oux Uinited mar
kmowing that this problem, which embraces bombings,
hijacking, assassination, and the demeaning of law enforce-
ment officers, is international in scope.

(9) Relations with Domestic Field Offices and Legal
Attaches. Ido not feel that there are any serious conflicts -
in this area but there may be room for improving the quality
of liaison in order to expand positive intelligence collection.

. |Given the changing situations both here and abroad, periodic
re-examination of field relations could assist both agencies
to make mutually-agreed adjustments,

Mr, Hoover, I wish to assure you that I value highly your personal
judgment in affairs bearing on the national security. I know that your
experience is derived from a unique lifetime of dedicated service to our
country. In this spirit,’ 1 welcome sincerely your observations on the
foregoing agenda and solicit your thoughts regarding any other item
which you deem worthy of the attention of your Bureau and this Agency.

Faithfully yours,
debt
. : Richard Helms
Director

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 7

t

sinen ha MOAN



wC¥ (CIA)

(1) NOCA

(rv RORIS MORRCS CASE)” -

This 5 ive Sovict-espionage ease
which originated in 1943 and terminated for the most _
‘part in 1S57.° the ‘case “hod many wide foreiéea’ Famific
eations and historically has been, and undoudtedly
will be, one of the most important and involved cases
of Soviet operntions in this country and abroad. We
i nate any information of significance
until 1654, On various oceasions when
ent has becone involved in heated argu-
CIA officials, they have seen fit to raise
this case as an outstanding example of FBI failure to
cooperate with tt y. The position taken by CIA
was that it sho have been advised regarding the
Soviet operational aetivity in foreign countries,
claining that the 4gency would have had the opportunity
to develop more information of Significance, identify
Soviet its, and possibly prepare conditions for
:recru..tne:t or doubling. of Soviet operatives. We did
‘not disseminate our reports to CIA because of the
‘extreme sensitivity of the case. We actuaily did not
permit CIA to tandle any investigations relating to
ithe MOCASE unti? 1957,

In 1957, CIA complained that it certainly had
every right to have reccived the information carlier
because many aspects of the LMCCASE pertained to CIA i.
employees and onorations. CIA further argued that it
had been greatly handicapped in effectively carrying out
the leads in 1857 because the leads were @iven to the
Agency at the sane time that the case was publicized,

‘The Agency argucd-that the failure of the Bureau to
coordinate with CIA those French aspects of the case
Permitted the French, rather than the U, S., to play a

| dominating rele in Europe.

encoun Reverse (ede 99-1826)
fe SU Gl Gee
: OG)
GFL) peke 2/9e

ae

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 8



_ OQ |
- SECRET

: “How tiuch information CIA “has developed over © ~
the years con ning ovy operational activity in

Mexico City is ux However, we should,pear-in
“mind ‘that: forwer. Ss “Agent (Gcorge Munropfvandled FE A
a <©o, includin® key iniore

Land ef our or

: ants, and “stk quently bégan performing ‘services for:

bora after he lcft the Bur We also should not

forget that cicans operating in Latin American

one agency are heavily exposed to the

sw hesources. of, another U,; S.. intellicoee. ork i. cost! F
agency, This Agent knovs from al experience that

operating in these areas constitutes a “very small world" :

and the exposure to leaks and errors is considerable,

(3) THE ABE

Altheush CIA ha + raised the ae for

‘several years, the prevail attitude vas, and probably

still exists, thet the TBI did not play “it! squere | with
Ora a hol 22 by not mokineg gartoin thet
given the proper recogniti on fox i
butions. CIA feels that in the first place, there would

‘not have been any U. S. access or availability to the

source in this case, Reino Hayhanen, because CIA tock

the full responsibility for moving Hayhanen from France

{to the U. S, in 1957. CiA claims it took the risk and
‘responsibility ef doing this after the Bureau declined

to become involved in any operation designed to transport

Hayhanen te the U. S. It should be noted that Hayhanen
iwas an alccholic and thet his first contacts with CIA .
yin Paris raised questions concerning Hayhanen's mental

istability. '

After Hayhanen arrived in the U. S., we.
arranged access to him for a period, the purpose of
which was to obt2in a complete story of his intelii~
gence activitics in the U. S. and we were particulz
interested in identifying all of his as pee es-
pecially the man who later was identified as Rudolph
Abel, After a short handling period in the U. S., we
dropped Hayhanen beca: he became a problem, It was
an extremcly cxritical situation because we had not yet
identified Abel, CIA agreed to take the responsibility
jfor the carrying and safeguarding of Hayhaenen but ve

| SECRET

~4-

ly

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 9


ions than in. the
ied more about these
their. security chfefs

countric
past. In
countries,
- By -spendi
this kind ef, t

8159. immeasurably helped

ACTIVITY

| ‘yas in 5g tigating individuals in
(feisaagah, gedly
activity. ren
f ‘in the U. S. intervi ached Gu

oO make

ineul at voy eau. At that time, our Felati

‘ with the atone cd been practically nonexistent because
the Qutcr ad “failed to honestly at ch us in the
case of ¢
¢elandes

Security

oaehed us, we told
ould submit their req
We subseguontly t
i for the teh
stuck to ow ition. * ua surrendered bu elt that
,we were impairing their efforts to gathor Information
- ‘eoncerning Soviet-espionage noth vities in Burope,
\ Walter G, Krivitsky, Bufile - 100-11146)

fEL_JCHY GROMNBACH

AT O'REIES)

Colonel gohn Grosbach was 9 retired U. S.
Army officer who, during World War Ii, established a

private intelligence network, operating throughout the

world but primarily in Europe, His sources included
any number of European exiles who came to the U, 8.

While he was in business, he was financed by the State
t& of the Army, and in the

Department, then -the Berartr
later 1940's and into the 1950's by CIA. Grombach
established contact with the Bureau through one of

his subordinates, Pat O'Brien, who periodically called

,

[ | SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 10

‘thom, “Needless ‘to say, ~

had been engaged in Soviet-espio
e ned (E10 maze
4

h Internal Security Service J&)



on us and furni
wes of LL est
Pat O'5ric
‘relations

eto ‘the ™

eke

H

hed infermat

mn continued during
“Sith Cla
were receiving such
x yeney, "
e gata t
shed an
sphere of sev
ars.oLits..dealiz

successfully penet

| allegedly had ide:

a

hn Gronbach felt

ei tion through

the period of Grombach's

d CEA: thatswe ><

oO was of

that Groeibach

not know, CHA

hip wW severed
In the "7

Ee “AS ONS:

We never inform
nfo ti which a

ied many of the sources, CIA

hinted to the Liaison Agent that it had become aware
of the relationsbi

and the Bureau.

set

between Grombach’s organization

much CIA really learned about

this:relationship is not known but if its penctrations
were significant, the Agency may have developed evidence

mation

(9)

Commission ini
the leaders

list of CIA

the names to

to justify a charge that the Eureau had withheld infor~

cularly when we were receiving
ation which{was financed by

TTENAN

In October, 1954, = task force of the captioned
tiated a survey of CIA's operations under
oof General Mark W
we were advised by 2 representative of the task force
that Senater Jeseph
ployees who were considered subversive,
CIA became cognizant of this development and there was
talk within the Agency that the Bureau had furnished

Clark, (In January, 1955,

NeCarthy had furnished the group a

Senator, When the Linison Agent was

greached on this, he flatly told the Agency
submit its charges, The Agency never did.
What informatien CIA may have had on this matter as it
pertained to the Bureau is not known, It is possible that

the Agency's attitude was strictly predicated on a’knowledge

that we mainto

ined liaison with the Senator's Committee,

(Relations with CIA, Bufile - 62-80750)

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 11

SECRET

~8- .

afieiiiia)


(11)

sminerous,

IGN. COUNTRIES

@ gave our Legal Attaches
i security cases in
see fit to :
YS maintained that
Security" on "counter=
mance per
; mdvisdy
at least a y to handle ti
last several i
any basis %
notifying CIA
abroad, If the Legal s

the U.S.
notify CIA alit

lend, In the
S not believed that there is
t since we have regularly been

es

subjects of es who travel
ttache is investigatin:, CIA is
notified in order to avoid duplicate efforts, There

have been exceptions where the position

that CIA should not be not sd beesuse cf the sensitivity
of the matter. How many such exceptions are known to

CIA cannot be est da irom our files; hovever, we
should u au in wie Gus L Lia

tigate, they cont. many of the s officials
normally contacted by CIA How many of those fercign
officials are CIA inio s,0r on the Agency payroll,
is unknown.

eau LiVvoS=

BUREAU OPERATIONS IN CUBA

We operated infermants in Cuba when we had a
Legal Attache's Of e@ in Havans, Infermants reported
on activities of communists and other subversives in
that country, Dur the period we operated these
informants, we did not coordinate our operationgfvith
CIA, We did not advise the Agency that we had such
sources Hevwever, in 1960, after Castro. came on the
scene, “it becane re fenror to handle certain informants

in a secure manner. pproval was granted to turn certain
informants over to C Wheat these informants may have
subsequently told CIA about past Bureau operations is
unknown, This it is being cited in the event CIA had
evidence to cstablish that we had been operation-1 in
Cuba and had n Jinated with the Agency pur
to Directiv rf ndum Donahoe to Beixont,
1960, re: "PF, Socialista Popular," 64-200-210, 2377

Hera

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 12


-. 2). BUREAU_ OPE ~ 1959...

TIONS infer AZ

In“ “1959 the UL S, ‘Anbassador in “Brazil accused ~
wdinated covert

ed that CIA
‘activities and the A
thatthe Legel Attach:
@ source who was a fah: ater or & provocator, This
situation azo a as a ae su it of the eres Attaches
q Some of the
he informant vy,
ad to & Grasiiiaftho

tind candidate, CTA

acy a iagecly h had told the Amba
ad di ssontnated “iniéritation: ie

was ° being touted “as a “Dre
asked for tho tity i nt and we told
the Agency the person could not be identified
because he ad not wish that his identity be disclosed,
This case is being cited be Sse CIA may have evi ce
that we had beon operational in fBrazsd Mnac Not coordi=
nated pu & to ectives, an the matter
further a: ted because of the alleged unreliability
of the i dum Roach to Belunont,

May 1, 1 "lillian I, Friedman, Legai Attache,

Rio do Janeiro," 67-429840) and (ilemorancum Roach to
Belmont, 3, re: "Soviet-Satellite Activities -
(Brazi 5 ia 1667-48) fo) :

(a3) Boar

In June, 1957, our Phoenix Office presented a
problen concerning the Bureau's handling of informants

on the If can border. These informants were operating
inside co. The problem was predicated on situaticns
which might arise as the result of CIA's endeavors to

develop infornants who already were being handled by the

Bureau, It was po ed out that CIA logically could

come in contact with such sources and could make approaches

for recruitment, It was recommended and approved that

in order to protect our coverage in the border area, a

valuable, trusted, and reliable confidential source would

continue to be utilized even if he were contaced by CIA.

Our policy was that we would not identify our sources to
ee the Areiey. |

SECRET

’ - 10 -

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 13



arned About oie bérdér coverage’
pointed out that former’
y have been knowledgeable.

: "How much
’ is not known,
_ Bureau Ag:
-As indicated, h
CiA, If CA lew
‘in ico, it ‘co
evidence of Bureau f

e"Communist Coverage
2b CIA,! "

nuts double Agen n the
eaptioned en: 32 is Soxiet contactPrhat he
was to oe a meeting in/Switverlan: i the period

(une 16=1 957, A question arose ag to vhetheg,CIA
Shania be infassad annsernine theiginwbs » nt) sPeravel
to ended and approve That we

e is that CIA established
© one point, The ney
thout our knowlecxe, The
Agency may. have also the contact with the GovictTs
in @ritzeria: he is being highl ted since we

fot exclu he possibility that the Agency ha idence
to demonstra
did not coordinate with the Agency. Menorandy
to Belmont, June 10, 1957, re; [fcanvorr," 105~25

What is i
contact withgéur 3
may have had further. co

(15) CZA_REOUI

ECTURE ON C

On Septémber 25, 1958, CIA inguired if W. C.
Sullivan could give 2 lecture on the communist movement
in the U.S. It was recommended that Sullivan give the
lecture. Such lectures were being afforded in other parts
of the Government, The Director made the notation "Ve
cannot make Sullivan available to this outfit." The
Agency accepted this as an affront and a blatant refusal

vo | sans

-ll-

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 14



to both .agencies,
Octeber 1, 1953, re:
by..CIA,").

Sullivan to Belmont,
for Lecture on Co: nisia

i] loscow, had been
in yeith a Soviet girl. Aecordins
to our isoures! GEES a llogediy had £ rnis hea infor a

to the £ viet
and CIA ind we at (ESSE naa besn invo

an affair dad been recalled, Ac Ging to

CIA snd y» there was no indiantion that
‘ (SESE hed been involved in any espionage against the

ue 5, considerntion to requesting the Buresu

to identi 1 changed its mind,
Whether CIA has as ean mee where

the Buresu failed to coopernte oy hot volunteering the
source is a matter of conjecture but, it is a
should be kept in mind, (iufile - Gaza)

and t

c
SF

In April, 1963, we becarm involved with CIA in
that Agency's efforts to collgct sensitive information
relating to Governmeng) tentions to conduct
espionage 3 uU , CIA had access to a sensitive
source, sition to mai Ke
available On_Apri}Z
1963, CIA ingormed us that our Leg: Attache in od
locally contacted “CIA co ing smotter. CIA ff
quarters was hig i

to be informed rezarding the nature and the extent of our
dissemination of CIA information to our Legal Attache. We

. -~12- - a
SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 15

bed because its office in{_ >

had not been cut in on this operation and the Agency wanted



Headquarte
it vasa vitally in:

t opera tion to or A and. the

that information had been le

VWehave no evidence or ‘renson ts

Attache Office ever involved its

a ver, we should not. under any pipet

agin the fact that ee
ahs

nap bs Always itatanding ca

Bones and installing microphones in i
@ age on U, S, officials, including their . i

resi iateces, should never be excluded, The information we

had conveyed to gur Legnl Attache pos: sibly may have been

acquired by the rough clandestine coverage, CIA

qy coula cha ge-us with he naling their sensitive

4 nant er by trans eee it to

anmnaction with atleged espionage

e U. S., CIA has never Db Satisfied with

de by the Bureau, ne Agency possibly could
take the position that looked lightly at the allegations
and did not pursue @ W ier which, in their eyes, nerited
@ more aggressive appro.ch, (Bufile ~ QeRERIRREEES>)

activity
the efforts ma

BEccceeeer "For some tine, CIA has held tg ,a position that

the s penetrated by
the Lis Agency has pointed out that if the IG)
ere Coliecetine sensitive_inforngtion in the U. S., the

product is ending up in In Janusry, 1964 a :
reviewed the status of our investigaticen of nteole
mented

ligence activities in the U. 5. . The Dirocto: 7
"Y think this whole thing has been imaginary on t
of CIA which has been played es a. sucker by &&

I would waste no more time on it at least until 211 CIA
restrict S are removed," CIA did impose restrictions
by not permitting us to pursue certain leads because it
feared that its sensitive source woul. be jeopardized,
(Bufile ~- Gamma)

SECRET.

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 16



‘from CIA, We did not obtain clearance from CIA for
‘the inclusion of & information in-our-monograph.:
Cléurance approval vas not obt ed because of the
_brgency,.of the ent, Cia was irri
"3€ considered ad i
hind agency

fne Agency “never made any. protest.

(21) BUR.

AU INFORMANTS IN (GuaT=ALA Ys)

: In_1o966

in Guatemala Yat the inception of our operational ace
tivity, CIA was not informed, . In one case, we finally
were able to effect the nocesnavy arrangements with CIA
whereby the Bureau would he peraitted to run the inform
in (Guaten In the second instance, we established an
agreement with CIA in October, 1967, tha, we could con-
tinue handling an informant in GuatonalapWith the
standing that the Bureau Agent, on the occxsig of an
vigit, would eenfer with@pe local CiA off
information collected fr
had all the makings of 2 con

gefinite immression that we had been running these
informants beforg

y coordinatgd with then.
It ig true that £ n Geatenaial as much
S

incensed but no issue was made at CIA Headquarters and
theratter was put to rest. ‘

Liect. UiA Was under the

CIA may have develop conerete evidence that
we were onerating in feuatenalg earing in. mind that in

a plage such 2s Guatonmaia City t would not be difficult
for a CIA intelligence office to spot an Fai Agent in

contact wi
that we \
with CIA.

ele

rout coordingting
em : ;

(22) gaat ii

, ! The information emanating from the caption 3
sensitive Bureau operation has been disseminated to CIA
and other agencies for several years. The sensitive
source has traveled abroad numerous times end his trips

-~15 =

: _ SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 17

Vana 1967, ‘we were operating informants~.

nt

political
e informant, These two cascs

votepetch vulnerability is


(26) B

traveled to

QO SECRE! @

NT OF RURDAU LIAISON WITH
INTSRHAL SECURITY VICE(s 1630

~“

che, Bonn,
loring arrange-
uthorities, The
out eoaene nie.

In danuary, 1960, our Legal At
Te Tiandor the purpose of e
ments for liaison with appropriate Dutch]
U. S. Ambassador raised questions,
the yoars, all relations _yith theo
been handied through CI He indf@ated that before there
was any change in procedure, it would be necessary for
CIA and FBI to come to some form of an agreement. Allen
Dulles subsequently e essed dissppointment in that his
Agency had net been contacted by the Bureau prior to
exploring the liaison arrangement, We. eventually conferred
with CIA and came to an agreement satisfactory to all
parties concerned,

Again, CIA could cite this as nn instance where
we failed to coordinate with the Agency in line with
Yationst. Security Council Dirgentives..
to Belniont, reh 3, 1960, re: "Legal Atia
Norway, i onmark, Sweden, and the Netherlan

arendium: Erohhass
Qperations
" 66-1E973~123)

In the latter t of 1959 we gave censideration to
establishing a Legal Attache in Copenhagen,. Denmark. The
purpose of the s to follow Bureau leads in
Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Holland. We did not form
CIA of our intentions, iiemorandum Frohbose to Belment,
January 14, 1990, re: "Legal Atiache Operations, The
Netherlands," $6-18973~-113)

BUREAU DISS
LNCS!

TRINTRLLIGSHCE.
ICES ~ 1662

EMINATION OF COU

By letter dated November 7, 19562, CIA raised
Questions concerning the propriety of Bursau dissemination
of counterintelligence information to foreign intelligence
services, CIA, at that time, had particular reference to
inforgition which our Legal Attache had transmitted to the
CPloceirigonce Service concerning. KGB operations, CIA

the position that pursuant to the coordinating

aes baie

SECRE!

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 18



| é re) |
7 cl |

Directive, the Bureau $s obligated to coordinate with - '
CIA prior to such dissemination, The particular data :
had emanated fr ene of our sensitive QSSHHS2 sources
Ve vr sided to CIA- by stating that the
2 product of;an internal urity

operation did not relate to any operational activity
abroad, CiA again endercd, The Agency could argue
that it was regponsi for following Soviet matters
with the St i nce Service and that we had an

i on Of coor ith the Agency. (Memorandum
vember 9, 1062, re:

(27) "TUS. LVIST
DAVIE: 3

In August, 1963, we received information indi-
eating that Wise d Ross were in the process of gathering
material for a book pertaining. to activities of U. 8.

CIA that these two i
cerning U. S. intell
"Y see no reason doin

re preparing a book cone
The Director. noted

,. It is not known if CIA was aware of the contact
with the Bureau. Wise and Ross subsequently published the
book which contained ex mely derogatory information :
concerning CIA, (Memorandum Jones to DeLoach, re: "David
Wise of the "New York -Heraid Tribune" and Thomas, Ross of
the "Chicago Sun Times")

(28) COMMUNIST ACTIVITINS - AFRICA !

‘ In April, 1660, CIA inquired if the Buresu would
give any consideraticn te isting the Agency toward
developing coverage in Africa, CIA was looking for the
services of any Negro info: nt who might be available.
The Agency also inquired about placing a Nesro in the
Communist Party, USA, under a plan which would have as
an eventual objective, the sending of the informant to

. 18 = :

- SECREL _

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 19


CEA ingnired if the Bureau
surveillance coverage on
who CIA felt was a key figure in
sceientifie intelligence data.to the
ence service fe decli ed to reins
x :€LA considered the matter important be
of its relationship to thefilia 2ST crisis.4@)

On October 21, 1969, we toid CIA that future
requests from CIA for tech tnical surveillance coverage
, should be transmitted by. the Agency directly to the
” Attorney General,

CIA has never made any official comment or
protest but it has considered the aforce-mentioned action
by the. Bureau as unfriendly and uncooper: ve. The Agency
has leoked to th as the logical point of cont
as the only organis ving the resources and caps
of adequately determining if such coverage is even feasible,

fD0N
wes

The Liaison Agont recalls fragments of oth
Situations or conflicts which occured over the years
which resulted in the voicing
a Agent cannot recall the 3 of the cases which is
heresaapinied to acquire the required data. There was one

ance carly in the 1980's which involved information
ived from a source of unknown reliability charging
Allen Dulies with having been a co iu and 2 spy while
in Burope, We disseminated the information to several
agencies. Dulles exploded but never lodged a protest.

a
CIA displeasure or criticism,

: 7 The Agent also has recollection of instances when
CIA alleged that its source o informant was ¢ omised by
Bureau revelation of CIA information during the course of
interviews conducted by us, Techuically, this vould be a
violation of the third agency rule and, if CIA had hard
core facts, we would be vulnerable, particularly if an
important informant was lost, CIA never made any official
issue or protest

. - 24 -

i SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 20


HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 21 s

ay:
i

“LIST oF
1, ATRACIS “.GAINST pURTAU rrancr - 1051)

Althoush oa jent Fasich aid’ not
with Civu it is important to
fieunt diff th CIA which-culminated in a
conflict in t Our Legal Attaches in
and Peris reported that CIA representatives were attoc
Bureau, wore endeavoring to place us in an unfavorable apenes
were questioning our juricdiction, and were nasiag disparaging

emarks concerning the Bureau, Seme of this was sumacd up by
charactert: as covert hastility within CIA, stemming
largely from disgruntled dormer ecmplcyees of the FBI.

In October, 1951, General Walter Beddil Smith, then
Director of CIA, asked to meet with the Director and other
Bureau representatives for the purpose of discussing the
existing differences. General 5: ath denied that there was any
covert hostility against the Buresu and maintained that there
was a gene a) feeling of respect tor 1s, He admitted that
1d beer netances of friction for which CIA
must “gecept its share o: “eosnons ibility.

It is my recollection. that the Director and other
Bureau officials did meet with General Smith, at which time
guidclines were for maintaining future relations
between the tro I was not able to nd menorancun
meeting. ee

The Agent clearly recalls that carly in the 1950's

ics with CIA because the Agency all
XJoyed personnel. We vigorously pro-
tested,and sulsequentiy che Agency advised that it would follow
a policy of not having’any contact with a Bureau employee until
idual had been separated from the Bureau for a period
of at least thirty days. ‘Yhe Agent could not locate the back-
ground of 3 tter in the files reviewed by him. It is pos-
sible that the pertinent information lies in the personnel file
of some former bureau Agent,

SECRET TY Selb Seolsox

KP Rg



politio:n
sailors
General
of the
by the
arya

asylun wad

9 had

cmineted
rd

reseentry
- effect on the ov
‘. emphasized te @
officially pre
inforned that h

8. CYA INTERVINY

WITH ALLE

OF AL.

DULLES

been ‘seized

HOTEE UNITED
SR 27, 1955

atin

1Orang
vie
official

indicating
of commit:
that failure to

s,

sh seamen would have an adverse
United States Defector Program,
neral Betts that this matter had never been
nted before the Defector
is acticn was not conducive to mutual cooperati

We

Committee, He was

STATES ~ DISCUSSION

On Sept

red od GOR me
situation but if not
between the'two 2:

‘of aliens in the Unit
first cbtaining the ne
requ ment for such clear
estublished 2greement,
September 28, 19

PVas

9. CIA A

Aad Hot yet developed inte a

oN OF TATIONS

27, 1955,
Allea Dulles, at which tine the CLA Dirceto

nee
(62-80750; menorandun
"Relations

LL ACAT

the Lia

Agent met with
‘sg attention was

serious
could lead to conflicts
s referred to the contacts

the Bureau, ‘The
and pursuant to an
Roach to Belmont

as clear-cut

with CIA")

ERY GRADUATE (1955)

In Nover
@ National Acade
This appronech wi
Academy clesses,

mR.

In December,
in con
for utili
that CIA

tior

Learned

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 22

1955,
aet with

an

in

& double
representatives had establi

GEER and had given him sone advice
e \ first checking with the Bure

t arose when CIA appro
his ceevicegfin Guate
graduate was attendthy Natio
.Als for
blishing contact with the

received information iidicating
indivicual whom the Bureau wa
agent operation, We
ed contact with
nd guidance without

We protested to CIA,

SECREL

=~ 3m

ES

ieegeestnaseanseee


. i
eee . ee

ed by .2 CIA offied:

dao torhd:
sent,

ug that he had been. 2d
“Yould Defy Buea: ie peat tons
become invol

nd we

ate

: On duly 20, 12
~  QRSHERA had been an ee ntact with the
hington, D. C. We furth necer t:

Ve were informed by CIA

in fact, had
wht

s

3 neeth nes

oy a State

ployee allegedly
Soviet agen being pers

es so that his activities

Depar tine: ial “to
had wdvised that the s
mittcd to enter the United $
could be covered and so that the Bureau would be in a position
to promote a defection, -The Bureau was not in pogsession of
any information im had sanetioned the entry

of the subject for _ r ose deseribed above, The State
Department of cial ble to recall the name of the CIA
employee invol a; inquiry at tive, We were not
ina sae to identity Sg without conducting
investigation within the Ag he Agency c
up waitin the identity. (Re:

17, Ss : ‘

By letter dated > 1956, we strongly pro-
ested to CIA besause rep qi of th xt Agency had inter~
viewed an alien in tho United States without first obtaini
elearance fr the ureau. ae should | be noted that there v
a well-established 3. cenent incumbent upon
CIA to first check with the Bur before intervies ving any
* alien in @ United State (Letter to CIA November GS, 1956,

NE =)
SECRET,

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 23



ei aA

cigiaee “QO QO

stident at Columbi
e of his assccitition
n-Decen
contacted by.
2 letter indicati
at he

1859,
an wnider
that the
interested fs
returned to the Unit
.the subject because o
« We subsequently vi z
infoxymed us that he had been cautioned by CIA not to furnish

¢ information to the Bureau, CIA denied that any such

wae mode. (Re: Barrell Patrick Marner’ )

19, CIA REQU
1957

ST FOR INFORMATION Cor

NING A HIGH-SPEED C!

ice furnished information i

ted a firm i ifornin to furs

addins ali fureisa Luguisies

@ manufactured by the cer
@ want to be certain

iction., We did not. develop

pped its jurisdiction. The Director

"O.K., but it does seem to me we give CIA

lere such a field, H"

ian April 10, 1957, "Flow of

Soviets and Satellites through

The San Francisco 0
that CIA had reque
AMguuicy

atier ©
the speed eame

Wes Y

ed Channels")

y 28, 1957, CIA advised that one of its repre-~
sentatives in,the field had interviewed the capticned Gia
alien who had arreed to cooperate with the Agency after he

to GSEEEEZER. CIA conducted this interview without
obtainl clearance fromthe Bureau. Such clears a
neccesary pursuant to an estnblished agreement. . A vic
pro’ 2st was made to the Agency. (Re: @=itmes - &

- SECRE!

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 24


| SECRET 7

REQUEST FOR TOUR FOX CCLOMBIAN INTELLIGENCE ee Hee eeaS)
SSENTATIVES ~ 1957

requested a tour for several
were coming to this country under CIA
eee no tours woud be given to the
ast a Sei mbagssacor had
eau Patter ve ha rested the (&)

cla w

angi
ossly ifsul

:
dt.
ambassador's chautie White Slave Trafie Act charge.

If we so desired, we could give consideration to

accusing CIA of trying to impose upon us individuals whom ve

considered undesirable in light of the fored

CMemorand On duly 1 1557, Roach _to Belnont [yteprosentatives

of Colo 2 Intelligence Sexrvicel- Request Tor Bureau Tour

by CIA") S)

22, QUEST FOR SECURITY SURVEY OF COUNCIL ON FOREIGN; hy
RELATION! = NEi YORK CEEY = 1257

ember 15, 1957, our New York Office was con-

tacted by the local CiA representative who desired to be ine

i if the Bureau could co t a security survey of the
remises of the Council on Foro Relations whish were located
across the street from 2 byilding occupied by th oviet -
fice

United Nations Delegation PAThe CIA representative indicate’

that his visit te our of was pursuant to instructions
received fro

Allen Dulles who,ggll aly was concerned about
the possibi y of thafSov etgPataniisiine coverage of
conversations and s

It should be noved that the Councii included as members many
welleknown personalities, including officials of the United
States Govermuent, w

, Pursuant to instructions, Allen Dulles was informed
on November 18, 1957, that we did not like the approach us
by CIA in that such a sensitive matter had been taken up at
— field Lie rather ‘than through Bureau Headquarters.

jenoxandum Roach to Eelnent November 19, 1957, re "Council -

on Foreign ameen) Co

: SECREL

Sit aie

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 25

ions” which might be held at the Council,


indicating tha

wand.

prose
that t

@ Bureau operation,

We

s0or dinating
i@ action taken

i "In Ocg , «1957, 7 i i
a Polish seientis st then visi
‘States mixht defect, velop

kept .CraA. ad
po and

par

dat

AT

scientists
thes
by WREEER vossibly eculd have jeonardized

57, we received’ int

tion fron
ing in tie re)
h

ully: ayare-of aie. .
were in contact with
Aon indicating that
hed contact

was

t
for,
s

A protest was
interes

ade to CiA
vith us, bearing in = “nd

| GR as GEE -

ed February 19, 1958, we directed a

nee Agency with interviewing the
without first obtaining the nece 7 S)
im the’ Bureau, (Re: z

EON CP PRI RNPLOYER

that a CIA employee

« with the FBY when she

RRRRIEISS ,

Machinists jad
h

in

On April 23,

which he cl

Mics [SESB7 who

CIA,

such represents
1958, "Unknown

sid she

we were iniermed that Mis:

ati Ca

to

ed that

eet we received information indicatin:

edly had represented herself as being

21 Association of
D.C, MSSEH gave a signed. statement
he ha > ved a phone call from a

was e@ FSI. Uson checking
ESS@m denied that

morondcum Heach to Belmont Apr
ay
)

By letter dated May 12, 1958, the Bureau protested

CiA for inte

first obtainin

Such
(Re:

AW 50953

elonranc

DoclId:32169180

eviewdlne-

the r

Page 26

an alien in the Detroit area without
vy Clearance from the Bureau,
pursuant to established agrecment,

SECRET

-~8-



i ‘ os ce The. t

» June 1 253,
eee Geni gS:

becan® ay

informed our Legai Atvunche ti

Legat visit

to accept the invitatio® reg

advised. by
ed to vis.

ty Gorrian!) lutelligence

and an Agency repre

S$ Wags not desired that the

$s ingtructed by the Bureau

ess of the CIA position,

1
4
c

We could evaluate the CIA position in this matter as
being uncooperative, Homorandum Reach to Belisont June 17,
1958, "Relations with CIA")

31, CIA INT

IN |CHENESE [ALT

In June, 195 v davd the question concerning
CIA's failure dj to a esement relating to CIA's G
recruitment off Chine an the Unit States for over

geag

iv het licens
not to approach a

Under the agreement, CIA was
ien without first e¢} n. itn(S)

an alien and
with us, We

proval in a letter to C dune 12, 1958.

to Boarduan June 9, 1958, "Recruitment ‘S)

¢ in‘the United States for Overseas

Intelligence Operations’)

32, CIA OF U's CRITICISM OF "MASTERS OF DECEIT"

Qur Legal Attache, Ti oO, obtained a copy of a me

randum sent to an official-in cur Embassy in Tokyo by
Chief of the CIA Office in Jap In his communication mage (GS
elittled the value of ' ters Of Deceit" as an anticommunist
weapon in foreign He claimed that the book pertained
only to the Communist Part » Which he characterized as a
small, ineffe den orgenization., He stated

that ti 2 author of the book was not an intellectual but rather

@ policeman, (ifemorandum Roach to Belmont June 12 and 24, 19538,
"Masters of Deceit.")

|. SECRET

sh : ay ae

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 27


DONESIAR

the
a to the Unite ares ‘states.
ucce of information by CiA

‘and volunte
@ source by CIA
the Ageney, In

nd been: developed. as
some information to
1253, we told CIA

that in the en: the Agency should
have notified us at date in order that we cour
have considered eu aticn for internel se

at the outset, (Re: fIndonesianLActivities =

7
AKA DR. HEU

Service, d fected to

valucble infor

In June, 1983, we eng ps information indicating
that CIA May, have open a a letter Swi aap zevlangiinich had

irector by 4 ae ind who ha

identified hi « Heinrich Sebu te Sf”) The weiter further
indicated that be connected with of st kntelli ence
Service. The tte ceeed to the Director had been piaced

i [ee envelor 2 wh ded up in the office of
U J
€ ved & cooy “of the “perticul

oriand ($Ale subsed
and the contents were such at

nication from CIA,
at time that no action was
requived by the Bureau, We
to the al

ed Cid for particulars. leading
ch had been adéressed
to the Director. C hat Lt had not opened the
We were c: identia informed by an Arency repre-
sentative that the sscoscch 2d opened the letter and then
f d tne matter to CIA, he contents were such that inves-
itive action of an tensive mature was required by CIA
in Europe, What actually hap
is someth

been ad sed to tt

ng.

i

SECRET

Hite ee

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 28

oat the United States Embas
we may never knovy, + [Gstenal Golenicwski - 65-6519 S)


dat te ed dune

~ On Tuly 18, 18S8,, € "NY Pogue see} “for,

a ‘permi ws of a telephon opver bts
obtained tl roa ing Hussein of Jordanp? the
a rain ad bece de through ourfsensitTve coverage

the
we had o
Rousan of
The conve

ashineton, DWC, On dui
of co ation bet

a key fig
which was to overthrow

y) ,
Y here to eof

Row

: seed ap: v ation

af ied any inmy

ros ane ly efi

naifo 1 ang? nN at
proof OF Pinon piratoria

jaetivity, “CLA would r Fhe Eecording be
‘played to the dng tha is was the only oe

Hussiec ould t

on
the Bureau .po

official was ady et
grant pormission tofpiayi
of the recor that. if w rented Such
permission, our veraze of a sensitive Teaches

ther fe
be seriously ee Ee >)

On July ai
would r its

958, Aller s asked if the Bureau
sconsider ifs i
in[the Middle E We)

nin view of the critical situntion
4 to instructions, CTA was ‘them
tol@ that in view"ef the the Bureau had b
placed, we seceded to Dulles' request. CIA s further tol
that wo were seriously conspderi the fCermination of all of
our te n L survei lancesps e we Gid not intend to be
placed in such a, position Tn the future

en

On July 22, 1958, Dulles told the Liaisen Agent
that he s very much disturbed over the Director reactior
He stated that he was,not interested in-holding a pistol to

SECRET - 2 -

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 29

Seirgaaeopaas


-O- SECRET

cad

sox nob

tho
TA Poroer be’

#oLy the x
by as to

Fat ane

ting the
to a foreign
o aM andum Roach .t
Permission to
us
rail
cause
ineluding wican
entation of such a
Au ti ry conan ds cs
denied n gny
jianed to on A ioFican. “com munists.
7 were informed tha the Mexican Governme
strong anticommunist program and certain
Americ ceported, We checked with CIA and the
Agence i ce City clai ed that his Agency was not
ste Slur
Th nt subsequently Ss infor dona
strictiy confi that the American Ambassador had
been in con Mexican off cencer: i
possible anti ivities, The ssador had consulted
with the local CIA chief d had ast sed for a list of Americans
who could be considered The CIA officer
reporte oa hed a list of r 40 names.  (meno~
randun Roach to Belmont, September "Legal Attache/s
Office, Mexico City, Relationship with Embassy and CIA) Hu)
38. Eee Ri
Ve expressed our Fee tested to CIA ik soptenter,
1958 Mhocause of Ben SECTS uthorized. investigation in
the United States ee niag izen who 4 here in connec
tion wW > chance eran, ndg RomanianXindicated to an
i . do that he wa interested in nying in the U
i not ready for actual defection because of
SECRET
a -13--

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 30



fence information gbut
si appened thagyone of the Sovsexafins invoived in afdouble i
agent Sears handled by the Burgau. The Burému alive i
had no
deted
in which f “hag fandied

to make a defector available to a congressional com:

“46 HOvL EY the |
« also-sent.to

& told “that the “paket Ww
e he had fa aiied, to make any objec
Hot aAleHt at the impending
to Belmont, 4
Globel Sherloc's, .

: n \dum. Prohboge.to” :
"Allen Dulles") °

E ery
OF CONTACTS DIVISION OF CIA - 1959 IEW

We received information in September Tess, that
3 ion of CIA had held interviews’ with Ameri
the Beston area, which dealt \ meetings b
Aen and visiting Goviets ICIA veportedly was i
i developing positive Int

tticlo end!

ce CIA of our interest in the foviet,] By letter
29, 1959, ve voiced i objec ion to the

this, (Me

On November 6, i tion was received
that HCUA was inte: ested in obtaining Colonel Frantisek i
to testify before the Committee. CUA ~
seOuhec sed the State Depar nt who, in
Allen Dulles allege i

The Director asked whether or not CIA had | authori

Etec without

first c} ing with other interested agencies The Director was
informec that CIA did not have such authority “because al nal

Securd
be done without proce:
Defe
Committee ha

Council directive made it very clear that this could not
the matter through the Inter-Agency
ittee. In this particula xr case the aforementioned
not called a mecting, but the chairman, a CIA

tor Com

official, had made certain phone calls. A Bureau representative

was contac
had
the ch:
had no chjeetion fo me

AW 50953

Tovember 6, 1959, but et that time we
ne Allen Dulles allegedly contacted
ttee and w told that the Commitice
fisler available.

d by phone on
ulated a po
man of the C

not for

DocId:32169180 Page 31


were”
Avail

e date we wer
ag: its posits
Tisler could be

an “poconpiderst: ¢
ade. available ed

it dia not feel

ber
reviewed and it

14; the devel

1959;-
mmonis
at.the

on April 11, Reicco
Company , % eeer
ld a : the Us.
bassy in Caracas. Ww X mploye i took excer
oO compli cning the
and the FBI. nuld have ret
five years ago ad. A protest wa.
to Allen Dull morandum Frohhbose to f
A :

Foundation, eved luvormation
nade by SANSA, a top

edly m
dly advocated recognition of Red

cone
China.

This mattey w: ad to the attention of Allen
Dulles and on a the Liaison A
that he Thad

ed a tape recording

the t {REE had not made the

to hin.

The above is, being cited in the event we desire tv
dispute the pos n by Dulles. If the evidence clenriy
established t had made such a nent, we could wee
the information to support a position would have beow
warranted in being mo ivcumepect with yandunm

Frohbose to Belmont, April 21, 1960, )
49. ALLUGID INSTALLATION OF MICROPHC? K ULE,
PREKIS eee

- A State Department representa

that a microphone ha ound in the ULB.

SECRET - is -

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 32

, its
that it had been planted by CIA; and that Allen Dulles allepedty



RR EeE i See anf

oe SECRET -

a : - : n erste Beet iececeeseec; poenest, peneey a cPnECPEReSDPeSa |
had imiintained’ that “if ct to operate effectively, it had if
What .was On, i §. :cestaublishnents,- The implication * 0.4
_ that ClA was co

activities of other U.S. age

micsl -instia Inquiries: developed intouw

g that hie anstalled a microphone in the
‘the. reque epartment official. The
> of-Sccurityrin State Was -contreted’ in am-effort: to: ab
pin noip move spec Feab ins were told by £tate
that their records dia not co any tion concer

the micrephone,

Meee ae os sub
Attaches instruc
installation
L'a
on .U

them to be on th
vhich may agkeet BDuresu operations, (Menoranduy
to Belmont, 2, 1066, “Installation of Microphones
Abroad by CIA")

subject
Bureau

throuch ngaypaper publicig¢ . e told
sen sof din New Youl: Ci nad been Lastwvucted by
to tell the subjeey that Te would not be pro:
Government. We complained to CIA ‘ ney

Hed) no power or authority to promise the Lye “ho

A Inont, September . Eis

dum L'Ahiier to

trossin

Oo£fice don

to ree Vint ti job, >
2 Aront Saueec wets learned that i
nforme that leaving her 100.) :
ineuired she could recomne vebody el. i:
the name of another CIA employee, Miss Siam

> a c otth snployce, axm(?

CIA that the Agency w
Bureau before recon- :

The Liaison Agent informe
| out of line by not fiyst chee!

mending PER idgth
| in developi g intellivence ine

to the U.
obstructi

S,. Governn
nit operatio

nty and that,
ot apprepriately cer

the B ( neun L'Allics to Belmont, October aly
uw oe
SECRET
c ee ;
* !
- ane en wee a en

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 33


Allen Dull
.. for use of
: No.

tivity of
Seer as oe

errors,

toe

son, Agent contacted
toc ‘y Bureau clear
Us. Inteiligence Boafd docu
Mt the od the, s¢
Bull ed one..of his
a recurrence

proots of tho

portrayed our

light. Since
thich he migh

BOOK, We

uld coap
the book
ehy

0510)

A review of thesa
counter
a8
t porforn
turned out tha

yeen intone

53, CONFLICT ¥

boo.

CIA

t CIA hi
were

1
aan t

had
told

ow Chicago Office received galley

veo ul ritten by Pawel Monat.
several references which
eapabilities in an unfavorabic

e for Monat and fer any writing
disey th CIA. It
aration of
protec
e CIA that they
wuges were made,
th was not
Bureau file

1961 &

“he pr
taken t

int
plan

pence.
that the Agen
same CLA of £3

} been involved
to these tact
t so he could 7
| Sullivan, Oc

Activiti

55, CIA TH

furnished in:
intellige
Agency
was 2
i 1962,

nee,

surfes

Qn Qetoher 6,

ey wa
ror c

to a
ics.
ee

1g

n he

Inge

tod

prot

forts

it was inportant to him to know the facts
ided accor

defected

tion concerning alle
and revic

CIA

1G61, or Legal Attache , sli
ndicatin

that the&{zcch Enbas
ent of its personnel by
told by thoxlocal CIA offi
yod, Cn October 12, 1G) the
osition and 2 A
xtent. The Liaison Agent objec

anrly. ae ae L'Allie: to
omatic

in Decem

conducted by
c off ey
with CIA and on
would take over the invest

CIA

intellig

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 34

7 peed



oo he r—sC

n{-to the field and we then learned in” y
t CYA alleeedily yed tq make, a veernitmemnt .

ily pl:
yatter we taken up with CYA headquarters and

a pre mado becau of -the.wide discrepancy in the:
“repo ved on:Cl intention oraidum Brennan to

oa6

: in
pies’ of
The
cy su
that one
ano
who

G, we developed incor:
had been passed ‘to, Ser
Director of

and

the
the

CIA and,
Section, He
the curt bas

be instituted a me
CIA employee named

BURP

Withoa
connect

We v,

in an operatior
hed a velation~
uiving gp

omte

otested to CIA in connecti, 7
utual interest iy E mis § i
o10Ki 0 RRA, Tersey . \
had j |

3 ou
ieating that © officer
rd our velation p with

with the president of the
to Deloach, March 15, 1967,

18G7, we protested to CIA in a case where
had failed to report to us concerning a
residing in the United St
n Intelligence Service. “the parti 3
od the exile to initiate prepnrations

SEChEL

~ 25 -

amunication w
ived from the .Cut
communication hat instrue

q

4
w

eo

HW 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 35
