‘'124-90062-10010|

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90062-10010

HQ

CR 105-8851 1-23

ORIGINATOR :
i FROM:
i TO:

| TITLE:

: DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
BN
HQ

06/06/1961
3

MARVIN KANTOR
PHILLIP GERALD ROSEMBLUM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

Consulted; 1A; 4

Redact

09/15/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USA, CIA

MEMO, INC RPT, REFERRED TO USA

ha

/ aw 50953 Docld:32327312 Page 1


a

<t STATES GO)
Win
ae émora ae
I qe foo) N we
Y ff TO : iDirector, FBI (105-88511) 2...» ~ Weare: 6-6-61 !
i i ’ BE ARBRE
WAT, earned 7% EC & 6 ALL IHEGRMATION CONTAINED i
he o FAAS, HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT :
Ypilegat, Bonn (105-1221) A ws

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

Y gf
& whe yoot

§
g

\ : : ph ud ¢
‘| SUBJECT: PHILLIP GERALD ROSENBLUM vA ae } yc bh
IS - R - DENMARK # - at vi a
LA DeBoer i ds - Filly,
‘i bi ( Seta icaaatisssety) ey DG
i 1 ; Re Bonn letter 3-30-61 and London letter 4-26-61, §
r i a : S
4h x :
i Enclosed for the additional information of the Bureau ches ‘i
q. is one copy of a Secret report dated 3-28-61 prepared by FRANK P, ee Rey
f DIERICKX of the 513th Military Intelligence Group, This report Py SSR
k, (0 reflects the results of the interrogations of the Subject. by .DIERICKX. “fs

It was received under Secret classification from the Collection NS
Branch, ABS (up? Division, Headquarters, United States Army,

\ Europe. (W Detlass per eas | on 10-24-97

Ss
Mr./ GRADY ELMS, a Confidential Representative of CIA >
the “Embassy formed this office that the Subject did in fact
contact the Danish Embassy in Bonn shortly after his call at the
Embassy conversation with Mr. AARON COLEMAN. According to
Mr. (ems) e Danish Embassy informed the Subject that he would be
liable to arrest if he returned to Denmark. Mr. [ELMS] has also{s)
informed me that a member of his staff observed the Subject in the
area of the American Housing Development in Bad Godesberg, Germany
on approximately May 1, 1961., :

Mr.’ AARON COLEMAN, Chief of the Consular Affairs Section
of the Embassy, has also informed me that he had observed the Subject at
approximately the same time and that the Subject was then engaged in
: ‘a contacting American residents in the project in an effort to sell
oy \ mutual fund bonds.
wv
¥

H Sf In order to establish, if possible, the precise current

G va residence of the Subject, this office is requesting the West German
bh GF Security Agency’ - Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BEV) to attempt ‘
to locate him and the Bureau will be advised of the results of this 7 !

Pen ACHERY fulst yy a

i 2 ,
' - Bureau ae
: hy: ceed y a a
(5) Ree Mit On 5 :

FO es SHEL. ~ 2.2

aa JUN 8 1961

xt €Ay
| 88 JUNZ011 Pavey

| NW 50953 Docld:32327312 Page 2



ae nee

Z : < : aes cue \
fr ROSEYBLUM, PDL Gor ata (3) —— i 28 March 1961 :
BEBY. 29 Setober..193 j : : . H
b-""Ropy) St, Louis, Miccourd , GB 31-1404 | fe oo a9i a
i : ; alle

é aaeperocees

f 0n--25 March 1961, this agent held a discussion ‘with Phillip Gerald ROSENBLUM
3n-Room7103, ‘Savoy Hotel; Wiesenhuettenstrasse 42, Frankhirt/Main. SUBJUCT's girl,
reula Bugsfeld, was also-present. SUBJECT and Bussfeld had stopped over-
‘rankfurt while enroute from Heilbronn to Dortmund, The discussion: between
‘this agent, ‘SUBJECT and Bussfeld was substantially ss followar ‘Y B f
a - 4 ! INO)

gente As I. told you

7

esterday, Ihave no ‘objections if Ursule/participates in
. thisdiscussion. However, you may have gome objections, and I leave the
. metter entirely up to you. / a

CT: No, I have no. objection if Ursula is here.

De min ve
: ; E Oe
Good. You will recall that after you were interrogated, I mentioned to”
< you that’ we would investigate your case and that this investigation would’ «_
take two-or three ee oS

that. shog
yx contacts with

Mor i he. stated you discussed thie tatter in
i “That is why I had no objéctions if Ursula is ~
‘ing: this discussion, since ‘hé_ knows about the whole matter

discussed this with. Ursula when T got back, and she remingéd ) ra
hed forgotten ebout-it. 7 &
» fis

- ; : “ :

also remember that ‘during the interrogation I told you | aS RI: J
nterested in obtaining evideiice for your prosecutiod put ratiier «|
gition of information concerning the: Soviet, ‘Tntal 4 ‘ence Ser f

‘Khriatchkov. spotted you, recruited you, what assignments hé gave - -

/ YoU, and what pay you received from him. That is still the. way Lfeely but af
ny, investigation also tok me to Copenhagen, where of | farse Thad

- about this case withthe Danish authorities; The-Danes kiow about the;
whole casé, 4 T gave them a copy of my report - and they feel entirely dif-

ferent’ about your activities in. Copenhagen. They 4re more interested din

\. prosecuting you. As a.matter of. ‘act, they to @ that if you so imuch 38

set one foot over the bobder into; E larrest you snd 2
3 This

sce P, DIBRICKK, 513th MT’ Gyoup

g

x

1
{
{
Peeeeeene yeas
1
{
{

HW 50953 Docld:32327312 Page 3



oe | SECRET

aS 2.0 MAR 1961
' ROSENBLUM, Phillip Gerald (S)

BOB: 29 October 1935

POB: St, Louis, Missouri HE 090 891

was in Copenhagen? Well, time was valuable. Also, when I needed money, and this
you won't believe, Iam somewhat resourceful in time of need, Whenever I got short
of money, which was on thvee aecasions, I tooka trip to Travemunde, Germany,
where they hada gambling casino, Need I say more? I havea system, even though
ofallible, that has. paid off opportunately at least, to say the very least, It isa

; simple system. I merely play the same numbers. For example, you can take a

ll series of six numbers and piay it 21 timies ina row....lam quite aware that statistics
have proved that no system has ever been devised that can beat roulette and baccarat,
bat: thie é6yetem has always performed for me in time of need,...Nils Prahm was with
Hl me the first time, At that time I won about 750 dollars playing roulette. ialso oath

nd of mine now. He lives at ‘Beateve} 1. He is a supervisdr for Olivetti, With

& e money I won, I bought the car. The car cost a little more than $500.00, I

FY Ought it from Steve\Rtanford, an American who was a representative for Libby" s Can
Company. He is back in California;-he lives in San Franc. jaso. Ialso won about

¢ $400 00 on another occasions~at Travemunde --with* “Murray Brown, an Arnerican who

ator, wio ig from New, York,’ stidying Rusdian and Danish at the wey
2p pe ha gen; the third was Tom--I canitt: think of his last uame;

ft KOWRort for

y The car was stolen from me in Octsver or November of 1959. I paid
$590, 00 fox“the car, but it was insured for more+-actually for about $1,500. 60, but

| TBetiled for | $1,000.00... le was mseured with the Zurich Insurance Company.‘

kG yet f:
PWNoe-4 Travels
ge

io

"TI have visited many countries over here:
"France. A number of times, May 1957, twice in '59, and
twice in 60. The purpose--tourigm.

“England, "57, Passing through actually.

“Holland; One time in “57, Tourism, And in '59 on business,
whidn £ was working for Mainiand. Ihad an agent in Holland. I'd have to check his
nathe. It's a very difficult name. He was a Venesuelan of Dutch descent.

i
|
it
|

"Belgium. In ‘57, Passed through on way to Germany. My ship
Frouent to Le Harve, and then I-weat by train through Belgium, Germany and on to
Denmark,

FRANK P, DIERICKX, 513th MI Group

as /é SECRET.

| NW 50953 Docld:32327312 Page 4

‘ent the third time about. M arch of Ap 1 1966- with three people! M Murray.

oney playing pool. 1 won 200 and, some dollars from Harry\Levin, a very good ieee

Wy
