/124-10219-10 166]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10219-10166
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-114543-114
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CRAWFORD, MATTHEW D. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 04/29/1964
PAGES: 200
SUBJECTS :
JURE, ASSOC, ACA, IMPORT, VESSELS, TRAINING, CUBANS,
BUSS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 05/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA.
COMMENTS: INC LHM, MEMO

v9.

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 1


Sterer
aman BUREAU OF INVE ESTIGATION
[uexico, p. ai BUREAU APR 29-1964 V2~4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
WATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR.‘ a

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

CHARACTER OF CASE
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

cea ies Za a
= “Classified by 2:
< i Seermennartae
Bal. SYNOPSIS? (RAImuNDO CUIDIELLO YS nead of JURE in.

Costa Rica but no definite informatio
#AGERCIES re JURE activities there FRANCISCO (4)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides in San_ Salvador, ©
butapparently is inactive. [Background
xwmation set out re JURE delegate

Be Yexico,
Baas
Bau ~ RUC - 66 Ck ptepilf Cone
ga46 G2 10 2 (mee)
2h REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64 (¢UU)
sy ADMINISTRATIVE: Do. wot Dnerena act FE
Ss eet GUTL DE Bursa be,
Re : The following information received from the Army
~~ Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
* March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E, KNAPP, is. not being set forth
in..the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
Ny mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Ry Army and to the United States Department of State. ce}
x

ats : W054 VEE [JF fees
cu Bs sy HAS NO OBJECTION 7— ——
SIFICATION ANCVOR,
Rex PS ni re» OF CIA IRFORMABIONY 5 1964
‘QSBE COVER PAGE B WN THIS pr foc bi ‘ DY

EpT FoR thE bi
iad:

Agency

Request R

Date Fwd.

7 i oO ae 7 PART CLASHUFICATION

How Fwd. ACTI

a i : ii ; O TOTAL DENIAL
SECREY

A

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 2


cfc, SECRET @

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said.he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps. (& )

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organizetion
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men, % )

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col, FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under ¢)
training. yl

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RaY.(c )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information. furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it. not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (¢ )

On March 3, 1964,[RICHARD RASTETTER,| Head of ©
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advise CO

COVER PAGE
c

t i SECRET,

NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 3


C  secreD-
GO _

! (uc 105-3776 |i¢:)

SA WADE E, KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local .
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were .
ENRIQUE DE LA. VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

' AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica, (~<916-6)

iv fRasTETTER |statea that it is his understanding
that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex~President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. eX SIS))

On March 6, 1964, frown B. BRADY,| Head of the cra(e)
Station, United States Emba: Sy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, i
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE :
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras i
but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He {
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor- (

|

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras, He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ, ‘
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (3610

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E,-KNAPP, wm ) u}

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when. received, 0) 3)

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 4


un @ STATES DEPARTMENT OF Bic:
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION |

a CONFIDENTIAL

ABR 29 1968.

“JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA:

oh eetitey RYT33 Revolutionary Junta - JURE):
DECLASSIFY Ci: 25X eee |
Tre This document contains neither : o74 8 a. is 1G
ALL INFORMATION CON : “taht rape cer sane A Jp eead
i SREIN 15 UNCLA your ageney, Classified hy 22°5

EXCEPT WH

¥e not to be Beclassify ony
OTEERWISE |

your agency,

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS Luis CHAVES, *

Assistant Director General, Criminal In stigations; ‘San,

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDOMQU IDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA. 7
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica. ©

said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and. . -*
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he -uses.
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether R.
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. (te)

RUSSELIPOLSON, Political Officer, United ‘States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO[QUIROS,_

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Césta Rica, n

eee
OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of’ the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

ort
REVIEWED BY 2SVJEK TASK FORCE
on Sleolar rrpaldeO

A RELEASE IN FULL
SE IN PART

: a sbes4t EMAL s2297390 Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL



CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica. bh

ea
OLSON recalled that both MANO y na MUL,
TIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON waStinable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX YUELA, Chief of National Investigations,,
Tegucigalpa, Hond Hondu uras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any infornation indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (¢ ) .

FLORENCIO VICENTE.ANTONIOAGONZALEZ, Head of‘ Special
Investigations, National_Police, San Salvador,..El.Salvador
aaviseh ee nen 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (Os) {

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Coasul, United States

‘ Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDE ITMAN possesses an O-] immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid, MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte, No, 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back~
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born_on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
1964, UW)

: : he files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
J etaced D. F., ico, le No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
o JULIO ISIDORO SbaNteataevA, disclosed that LANIER is a
Siieen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April at

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. SASTRY A
a
When enter) ie Mexi » LANIER furnished LUGE tree
of Professor LUIS G ROPETE, Presidente Carranza No. Ca
-2- Le rca
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 Doclda:32297390 Page 6


7

#:263-iRew. ¥1950)
eat

| (SECRET: ,
a sas BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
a
REFORTINGREE ER Ra Dare TnvESTOATIVEPERIGO
MEXICO, D. iia APR 29 1964 3/2-4/24/64
uiinanisinitanl “°MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR. jk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) CHARACTER OF CASE
(JURE) is .- CUBA jraa4]

RA —- CUBA oH
CLASSIFIED BY S46 SOIR

DECLASSIFY ON: 2oX

SYNOPSIS$ RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO -is; head of JURE aR
osta Rica but no definite informati
re JURE activities seera FRancisca{)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides San Netsodi)
Ab INFORMATION CONTALRED but apparently is inactive. Be S
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED information set_out re JURE delegate viel rr)
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN in Mexicol]@/y
OTHERWISE

SULT G EN
Tove Classified by V2.
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. irs on:
ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San dose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E, KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State,

sees SrRCIAL AGENT Lest erie anes oie

Seriss Wane! REVIEWED BY SB/JEK TASK ine

BU Roe Shoko z Pe ees
[lic] Bibs ‘05-3776. RELEASE IN aa DECLASSIFIcaTioN ANDIOR,
DOCUMENT, 7m |G

SEE COVER Pace pO RELEASE IN PAR
TOTAL DENIAL

Agency

Request Recd

Date Fwd. -

SECRET. 2 pg INST


SECRET
@ :
fief Pee : e

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes, It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP;

On March 3,°1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich. individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS. He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under
training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

©)

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. ¢ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (c)

On March 3, 1964, [RICHARD RASTETTER,| Head of (8)
the CIA Station, United Sta

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 8

Ss Embassy, San JGse, advis: (AUR

iN


ao ©
(wcphse Sire

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. («

© (RASTETTER [stated that it is his understanding
that représentativés of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members
of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. (>a)

On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B. BRADY,]Head of the c1a(S)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE -
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor-
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E.* KNAPP, RUD
Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. KW)

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET:

4

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 9



un STATES DEPARTMENT OF cn
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

mnt ie CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE)

This document contains neither spe ‘Ge
usions of

b ty of

© your agency;

ON CONTAINED
ALL INFORM ee ee rED

; bbs Q Q ts are not to be Classified hy f,
or (ERWLSS Il- distributed outsige yoyr agency. Declassify on: 0
CLASSIFIED 0 bout Sib (I
DECLASSIFY Ci |
Jet

On March 2} 1964, Captain CARLOS- LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director Genéral, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA :
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to. state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. ()

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON ‘advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans. opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

ANED BN eal rk TASK FORGE
re N TIA
i L
Bxeluded—frem—Autemetic—

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 10


7 > 6

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON. recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras.(c )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador.@)

+ WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March ll, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964. o(w

he files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D, F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. 4 w)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 2041 GU)

-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

RW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 11


: BCuEerEn ;
FDs26s%(pev. s-fys9) neue

SECRET,
.!. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

S&S.

%

F ORIGIN:

REPORTING OBFICE o
[iex1c0, D. F

DaTE, INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

BUREAU APR 29 1964 3/2—4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY ‘TYPED BY
MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR. gh
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA _ |-
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) rece sd fae 92-4
(JURE) 18 - CUBA (l-
RA - CUBA uy SOILS
CLASSIFIED BYE: vl
DECLASSIFY ON: 26 a>
SYNOPSIS: [RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

osta Rica but no definite information

re JURE activities there Bienanc sco 2)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides In San_Salvador,

*LL INFORMATION CONTAINED but apparently is inactive.
E information set out re JURE

iEREINIS TED

in Mexico,]

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Suet Declassify on: OAD|
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/29/64. 64{u) Vo.

Background j
lelegate a Y “Gy
MOUL RSL E SOURCES
wavsiiied by

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E, KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor~
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

TOTAL DENIAL

IN CHARGE) S
REVIEWED EY Wi/urK [ASK mr

fig RY) 105~114543) 3} 20)¢n rrp. ——_

SEE COVER PAGE B

105-3776 8 RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANOYOR,
RELEASE GF CiA INFORMATION,

IN_THIS DOCUMENT. —. 1Q5~-
: “Erect tot. ahi a

Requést AI

Date ‘Fwd.

1} How Fwall LEASE I PART
Sy C FOTAL an

Notations i. 30-97
SEE ‘sy, EK,
SIDE : q @ )
CLAS CATION
Actiom \,. ; ag

| 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 12

"BECRED

DSN


c q + 7
fic fore SECRET @

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable ‘to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men. ~

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under
training. (e)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY.(@ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3, 1964, [ercuano RASTETTER,] Head of (s)
the CIA Station, United Statés Embassy, San e, advised OR)

COVER PAGE
Cc

SECRET

BW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 13


|

SECRED

AW
fc] EM

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brother.
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which os
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica.

(Sfhasterned] stated that it is his understanding
that représentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact ;with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information.( Sx}

On March 6, 1964,[ JOHN B. BRADY,/Head of the CIA
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA_WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras
but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

- and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru.(

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP, & u)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished tly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received.  {u)

COVER PAGE
D
SECRET!

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 14


un STATES DEPARTMENT OF Brice
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Ploase Refer to CONFIDENTIAL

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

APR 29 1964

A
[9 i (TA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
CLASSIFIED BY _6O6f = (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25K Spi m :
Jr - :
: \ ) This document contains neither _ fo
TION CONTATNE ssions of —iassified by

of
z agency; Declassify on:
2

distributed outside your agency.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San .
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~- JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in’ the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
SURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. @ 9

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY Siar TASK FORCE ee
oN Shalen ang d- IAS enna
—Group_I__

N FULL ——Exetuded tron Automatre—
PART ~-Bowngrading—and-Deelassification

, BW 50953) DocId:32297390 Page 15


NW 50953

. _ @

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the SURE is
active in Honduras. (¢ )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
. advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador .(@ )

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte, No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
2964. 0¢{ u

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISINORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
‘citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport .No, 38725. ‘GOL u)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the d
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, 0%) SOU)

-2.-
CONFIDENTIAL

DocId:32297390 Page 16


. FD=262 (Rev. 5-169) . i SECRED
. oe ‘ . 5 8 s

‘FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

: Ww
merOnTING Gace pace OF onan Dare INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
MEXICO, D, F BUREAU APR 29 1964 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY ‘TYPED BY

MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR. \jhk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) bcd careauaueeaeiceaes 29-47
(JURE) IS -~ CUBA ir
: RA = CUBA iv) sf’
cuagsirieD BY 54
DECLASSIFY CO TAC}
SYNOPSIS: {Rarwnpo QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
‘osta Rica but no definite information

re JURE activities thorg FRANCISCO, (1)

- BORDEN HARTMAN resides in San_Salvador,

ALL INFORMATION COWTATYED © but apparently is inactive. (Background
NI ED information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico ]Gfy)

- RUC -

REFERENCES: .Wexico City letter 2/28/64-&(u) Declassify on: OADR
ADMINISTRATIVE: | 7

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

REVIEWED BY SBYJFK TASK FORCE
— fy EE |Z. poner wntrewsraces arLow

See D)-RELEASE IN FULL |
BU AG) 105-114543 Cl RELEASE IN Pi i 0
[uc}mre’ 105-3776 TOTAL DENIAL | BECLAGSYE

SEE COVER PAGE B
~~ REVIEWED BY RBI/JFK TASK FORCE

fd“oFAttacl eportt)
IN FULL

” Dissemination

Agency

Reéquest'Recd,.

Date Fwd.”

low Ewa.

7 | an
es secRED

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 17 ; 105 HYSYS “114



u ) SECRET.
pene . 6

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. -He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion \
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto. Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col, FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
_land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under @)
training. F

co

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. @)

Both Lt. Col, FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency.(¢)

On March 3, 1964, [Brcusap RASTETTER,| Head or(S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San e, advis SDM

“COVER PAGE
c

SECRET

(CRW 50953) DocId:32297390 Page 18


N

Gc SECRET) .
Coen

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica - SOR)

J RASTETTER|stated that it is his understanding
that répresentativés of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex~President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members
of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information.

On March 6, 1964, GOHN B, BRADY,| Head of the cra (é)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. ()('5

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP, u

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities .

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. ) uy

COVER PAGE

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 19


Pencil CONFIDENTIAL

UNI’ STATES DEPARTMENT OF Barc:
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

re APR 29 1964
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
99-1) serie ann Junta “= . JURE) /
OY OW sete alien eapanlers g mihi
aeeatil i) Teecmmendations nor —_ f 1b-A4d- ay
sin i echt Se

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor.
mation concerning the activities of this organization. (

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa’ Rica, OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

7 OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to:the present regime in Cuba. The
Department. of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

oe ql
BY SB/SFK TASK FORCE

REVIEWED

oN 5\ eopn AA CONFIDENTIAL
sii Le » A
TY RELEASE IN FULL Group

ORE

sue Exeluded—from—Automatie——
= WN PART “Dewigrmitng-and—Deelassifiession

O TOTAL DENIAL

| NW 50953

DocId:32297390 Page 20


CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL’
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica. i

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras.(¢@)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in-El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (@ )

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No, 5244. ° MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T~1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964, KY)
he files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on Aprjl 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. Cy u)
When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the Hames
of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. *eece(U)

-2.-

CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 21


FUe363 (HOY, 591-59) aussi! 4

FEDERAL BUREAU

(SECRED |

®

OF INVESTIGATION

: w
REPORTING OFFICE FICE OF ORIGIN
[itexico, DF “ BUREAU

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 29 1964 3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE

TYPED BY

\jhk

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

CHARACTER OF CASE

(JURE) IS = CUBA
RA = CUBA
SYNOPSIS: {Rarmunpo QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
Costa Rica but no definite informatio
re JURE activities there]. FRANCISCO ( UU)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides fn San_Salvador,
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED but apparently. is inactive. [Background
S UNCLASSIFIED information *] out re JURE delegate

SHOWN in Mexico. .,

- RUC -
REFERENCES; Mexico City letter 2/28/64. 1)
ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is: not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

oe
REVIEWED BY QBYJFK TASK FOR!

fe
LE 105~114543

BU
! CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
act! * as) yeah

105-377 ON | “DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
Se RELEASE IN FULE

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION| ~~~
SEE COVER PAGE Bp) PEL EASE IN PART IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jin 6 - 45-97
(TOTAL DENIAL tae

‘SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

. REVIE Sw Ke '
ssemination Record-of Attached Report TASK + Ye
ue a eee FORCE FFI)
Request Reca: {SIDE

ae a ate eee ~ fet eae IN P, ACTIO
ee to : i TOTAL dheuiay
SECRET: (05-549

Ng 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 22


seers * SECRET)
ad ; bd

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately. three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees’as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP;

On March 3,.1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. .He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the .
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under ()
training.

On March 3,.1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (¢ )

. Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

7 and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency.)

Oh Warch 3, 1964, [RICHARD RASTETTER,| Head of(S)
the CIA Station, United Statés Embassy, San Jose, advised Sal)

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET]

BW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 23


fuc SSS 120

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brothers
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (

{epfaasrerrad] statea that it is his understanding
that r ‘entatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex~President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information.(s,4)

On March 6, 1964, JOHN B, BRADY,] Head of the CIA s)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA,WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor.
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (2

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E. ‘KNAPP, oe lu)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when mecenvees Su)

COVER PAGE
D

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 24


oni STATES DEPARTMENT OF .
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Re Please Ref WASHINGTON 25, D. G
In Reply, fer to

Fie Ne CONFIDENTIAL apo toe

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED

EACEP! WHERE SHOWN 9 A) F tw your ageney; — Declassify on:
OTHERWISE ita it and i are not to be

nd its cont
, istributed outside your agency,
og SDs
cussions alle ger)

DECLAS On Mare 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase. and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. @)

Classified by

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

_ OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State ‘approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

QRS :
REVIEWED BY SA/JFK TASK FORCE
on Sl~le alo” CONFIDENTIAL
SEIN FULL troup-t
SELEASE IN PART —Exctuded from Automatie—
TOTAL DENIAL ~Dewngrading-and—Deelassification

50953 Docld:32297390° Page 25



é &
CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL’
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica. 7

FELIX E,. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (¢ )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador, ~
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working. against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 1], 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued ‘to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964, Hy)

ie files of. the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. w 4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 2641 GZ) (Ul)

-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 26


BD=263, (Bev. 5-1-59)

SECRET}

aaa aoe REAU OF INVESTIGATION
ub

REPORTING co, p. Fy" Suet DATE a yy
: APR 29 1964
D BY
Ee ere “THATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR. [jhe
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
‘(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) CHARACTER OF CASE
(JURE) Is - CUBA
RA - CUBA
Pesca
Cecuassir’

SYNOPSIS:  (RAIMUNDO GUIDIELLO is head of JUKE in
Costa Rica but no definite,informatio
re JURE activities there). FRANCISCO (u)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides San_ Salvador,
\DL INFORMATION CONTAINED but apparently is inactive. Background

IERELE I rT FIED information set out re JURE delegate

IXCEI in Mexico,

WHERWISE pw WL E SOURCES
- RUC -

; ; Classified by A/Cee
.REFERENCES; Mexico City meuren 2/28/64 (uPectssiy on: RY/95

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State,

awonoveo ore GONGT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

inant ae -
BU FILE 105-114549-/EWED BY SBJFK TASK FORCE aoe 1

uU a
if 8 3776 ON S\eo]on Apel _neoLAssifiCATION ANDIOR,
[atc} eae arn eee OF GA INFORMATION,

SEE COVER PAGE B

ssemination Record of Attached Report [ij]

Agency: °°

RELEASE IN FULL
J RELEASE IN PART I CATION
TAL DENIAL :

SECRET

Request. Recd.

|

|
Bate Fe. Patel
; | i
By nae : |

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 27

4

NS UESYR MY


; ” SECRE
Fic OS a ; 7 @ :

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three. hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego. was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP:

: On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose.and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS. He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under ()
training. —

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (@ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency.)

On March 3, 1964,] RICHARD RASTETTER] Head of ©
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advised (A Yor

COVER PAGE ve
c

‘SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 28


G seorep CV

fie forse

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (SH)

2) [Rasterren|statea that it is his understanding
that resentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. (ay

Station, United States Embassy, Teguciga » Honduras,

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man, He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor~

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine, ‘
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (spat i

On March 6, 1964, OHN B, BEADy®| Head of the CIA @

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E.:KNAPP, u

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the !
Bureau and interested offices when received. Hu]

COVER PAGE
D

SECRED

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 29


5 . my =

un STATES DEPARTMENT OF
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

ee CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1964
0774 v ; 7

yal JUNTA -REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
FIED BY 58 Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)
f 2
ia

r
3, 25k 4 Ire)

au) SPimacisy |

_ ‘This document contains neither 1b -24-4

. ty of Classified by PE QMZ

0 your agency;

ure not to be Declassify on: OADR 7//25

CLASS!

——

conclusions of

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED
8 SHOWN

id its

UsHEOWiSe

e

distributed outside your agency, ,

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and '

Sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activitiés of this organization. «) oo
RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer; United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

as
REVIEWED BY ZB/JFK TASK FORCE

ow 3} 25 67 ony (de CONFIDENTIAL
TH SELEASE IN FULL Group-t—
J RELEASE IN PART Exebuded—from-Automatre—

QO) YOTAL DENIAL :

; NW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 30



CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL’
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras.(¢ )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964. (Xu)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725, ie

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the\names
of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, 7G)

-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 Doclda:32297390 Page 31


idiieaalli an ot . 9 (SECRET: ®
' FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

REPORTING O§FICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE - :
[ixxc0, D.F BUREAU APR 29 1968 3/2~4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT utente . TYPED BY
MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR. hk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA SARACIERIOR CASE
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) bakaniiaain
(JURE) Is ~ CUBA
RA = CUBA W- 32-4
* CLASSIFIED BY 4GGE Sea
DECLAS rarer
iin We CUA

SYNOPSIS: [Rarauwpo QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
Costa Rica but no définite informatio
re JURE activities therelf%) FRANCISCO \U4)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides San_Salvador
ON CONTAINED Sal ,
UAB but apparently. is inactive. ({Bdckground
information set out re JURE élegate

in Mexico [Yofys)
~ RUC = A

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2728/64 ju) ‘Declassify on: OAD 7AG5
ADMINISTRATIVE: ; ,

>
ALL INFORMA

0

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E, KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED REVIEWER CESSES irk [TASK FORCE _coNot wrire in spaces eerow
COPIES MADE: 1?)
: ON S| 2) &
oe my 208-2 24548  AELEASE IN FULL tas HAS NO OBJECTION TO
uc 105-3776 “| : DECLASSIFICATION ANDJOR,
[inc Cl RELEASE IN PART RELEASE OF GIA INFORM TON
SEE COVER PAGE B CD TOTAL DENIAL __ANSFRIS DOCUMENT. J 6-95-47

Sse Piet EERE EE REVIEWED BY-R8WdEK
__.- Dissemination Record.of Attached Repot
= Loreal FULL QL)
a IN PART sipa\for

igonor ]

iDate Fad. - CLASSYFICATION
Lees CP TOTAL DENIAL sctfon

|
|
a

|

By

‘SECRET WS-INSY3-HY

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 32


a ra SECRE] -
3,9 | ; bd

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP;

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col, FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

7 and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under )

training. :

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated’ the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, ()

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (¢)

On March 3, 1964, (RICHARD RASTETTER,] Head of(S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advised tSA0x)

COVER PAGE
Cc carey eae,

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 33


u

re SECRET)

[icf SSQhre

O

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH,. He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica, 6A) )

2) [RASTETTER]stated that it is his understanding
that presentativés of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members
of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. . He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. at Geer

On March 6, 1964, (JOHN B, BRADY,} Head of the CIA 2
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru.

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E.‘ KNAPP, u)

Legat, Mexico will continue tO follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished pr tly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. ¥ u\

COVER PAGE “
D

— SECRET

(a

| HW 50953 Docla:32297390 Page 34


un STATES DEPARTMENT OF Bc:
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

to CONFIDENTIAL =a? 29 sy

Auli SUMS UNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
CLASSIFIED BY EX (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)
cy ON e oo

DECLASSIFY OF (0) SPIRGEME,

ATION CONTA

This document contains neither

sions of Classified by

your agency,  Declassify"on:
are not to be’
tside your agency.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San-
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. «&)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica, OLSON
stated that they’ are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
veasels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

Q Oo
REVIEWED BY 28/JFK TASK FORCE

on Slop de CONFIDENTIAL

Gk RELEASE IN FULL
N PART Exeluded—from Auronatic—
NIAL ji i Cation

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 35



CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL’
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
“are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE. is
active in Honduras. @ )

: FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (@)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
i that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964, jey(u)
The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,°:
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. a) a)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, 3A(u)

: ‘

-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

\ N¥ 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 36


ae

on oe ‘SECREL  ®

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

: : a)
REPORTIN TC y FI J ORIGIN DATE
"Te co, dD; F BUREAU pen

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD +

3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE 7 onan ot eee Fane
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA -
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) CHARACTER OF CASE “ ade
(JURE) IS = CUBA wll
RA — CUBA ues §
CLASSIEIED PD
DECLASSIFY © las,

SYNOPSIS:  [RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
Costa Rica but no defini informati:
re JURE activities tnerg@ mancisco U)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides San, Salvador,
TED but apparently is inactive. jackground

ALT: INFORMATION CONTA
~ we

} £D information set out re JURE delegate Sf (ie.
in Mexico. |ogfw) / AY QS
F : ; ~ RUC - Mo trite & SOS
Classified by
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. oe U) Dectassity on: OADRY//74

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State. <

“SPECIAL AGENT

= cine "DO NOT WRITEIN SPACES BELOW
comes MABE: REVIEWED BY Bor TASK FORGE
BU F. 105-114543
A) oN Shee We — HAS NO OBJECTION TO -
[ucJPILE- 105-3776 Oy RELEASE IN FULL DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

SEE COVER PAGE B © RELEASE IN PART RELEASE OF ClA INFORMATI

_ (1. TOTAL DENIAL IN-THIS DOCUMENT..7/™
esnieeieeees REVIEWED dee A TABOR GEO
Dissemination Record cf'anached wesctn HA fotations

ESsbeteres.j E2DEEEes N-RELEASE| IN FULL

: = Blialy PART :
TAL DENIAL Fi all

7 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 37 SECRET | : 705 NY5 43-14 Gd

Agency’? 2

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.



\

a u) @ secren | @
ree 6 :

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps,

.
He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

: The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP;

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for oral
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration | ”
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under I)
training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, a )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. ()

On March 3, 1964, /RICHARD RASTETTER Head of)
the CIA Station, United Stafés Embassy, San Jose, aot) ain

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 36


) SECRET
(icf re

SA WADE E, KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica,

2 [BASTETTER|stated that it is his understanding
that resentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex~President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. (S-Gs0

On March 6, 1964, (soun B, BRADY,| Head of the cra (S)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras
but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor-
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Ar, entine,
and from there expected to go to | Peru. i)

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results. of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E,:KNAPP, 4 )

Legat, Mexico will continue to-follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the -
Bureau and interested offices when received. ©)

COVER PAGE

i
D

‘SECRET

| mw 50953 pocta:32297390 Page 39



@ ; .
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Pela ianinteecadad ~ CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA .
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE)
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) pe)
SPS MAREMSE
de 7 i ith pace e Mo if
This document contains neither
OUTATHED the SE chum sil y LKB
a the F8 sc sgeney, Declassity on: OADR 2//65

not to be Nro2n

your agency,
CLASSIFIED BYAGO FSCO [US

; : DECLASSIFY OWN. 2X.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES, Ja

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San ¢)

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO. QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

SURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish: no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization, @)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

us
D BY SHFK TASK FORCE

CONFIDENTIAL
SA ENTIAL

Cl RELEASE IN PART
Ol TOTAL DENIAL

| NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 40



CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL’
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (¢ )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. ¢)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1] immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

T-1 furnished the following information. on March ‘31,
1964. u)

e files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is ‘a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April .
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. Yu)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, ou)
~2-
CONFIDENTIAL

\
Hw 50953 Docla:32297390 Page 41


FD26,

ae @ «ORD
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
a Cam -

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
[uextco, D. r] BUREAU APR 29 1964 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE eases ee Fee eet
; MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR. |jhk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA CHARACTER OF CASE
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) eae
(JURE) IS _- CUBA W397)
RA.- CUBA G
CLASSIFIED BYS GO¥ S$
DECLASSIEY ON: 25x 7G"
Te)
SYNOPSIS: [Rarmunpo QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite informatio \

re JURE activities therg Jerancisco \U

BORDEN HARTMAN resides a alvador; FY
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED but apparently is inactive. ./Background
REIN LS UNCLASSIFIED information set out re JURE egate Spt

CEPT WHERE SHOWN in Mexico 1G)
OTHERWISE ness

- RUC -

; . Classified by
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. X{w) ects on: OAQR U/25

ADMINISTRATIVE;

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT
APPROVED 7 Sieg DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
oars
BFK

reermpernn REVIEWED BY TASK FORCE
BU FILE 105-114543N a iia ee a
R

Ku > RELEASE IN FULL | _DEGLASSIEICATION ANO/OR,
fice 105-3776 ae RELEASE ty paRT | RELEASE CF Cia INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, Jim 6-259 7

SEE COVER PAGE Br TOTAL DENIAL

REVIEWED 67g —
fo “Diadaikinanion Record of Anracked Report , 4
agency oe ¥ RELEASS IN FULL “Sar hye Fe)
ae d RELEASE IN PART ee ee
a oa 7 : ENIAL ACTION i
a istCREH

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 42 105-NY543-1


Bw @
icf.

secrep @

Colonel HARVEY stated that according. to his
information there are approximately three tiindred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no ae data on the Cubans in
charge of these men,

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under (c)
training,

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security. Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ART INE and MANOLO RAY.(C)

Both Lt. Col, FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (Cc)

On March 3, 1964, (RICHARD RASTETTER, | Head of(S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advi. BE

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET)

HW 50953) DocId:32297390 Page 43


eee © SECRED. =O

hy)
[itc]105-3776 7 :

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the locai
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica.

QO fessterres stated that it is his understanding |
that r Sentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that’ members

of the Movimiento Reeuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. (sxc) (¢)

On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B, BRADY,| Head of the CIA ©
Station, United states Embassy, Teguciga ‘pa, Honduras, -
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect, FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor.
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras, He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Ar entine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. SHES

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E.° KNAPP, v)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished pre tly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. lu)

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 44



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

Pete ed 2-47 CONFIDENTIAL APR29 1964

ciptyh SOD.
ggiFiED oy Suu $4
CAST ey Olt 24 JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

JA¥) (cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

This document
lnm aA g
the FB

Vidvotu uy

to your agency;

Declassify on:

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization, @ )

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed 'to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY Bhuek TASK FORGE

Slaclan_ pug der CONFIDENTIAL

ASE IN FULL

EIN PART ~eretuded troy-automatre—
iL Dowagrading-and-Declussification

\ W 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 45 —

a

Ay


CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL’
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras.(c)}

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @ )

WILLIAM A,. MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador,-E1 Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

) ,

he files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. ea y

: i furnished the following information on March 31,
1964, Kl ;

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the mes,
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, Su)

-~ 2
CONFIDENTIAL - .

l\w 50953 DociId:32297390 Page 46


1-59)

.] SECRET. s
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING DW FICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE,

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
MEXICO, D. F, BUREAU APR 29 1964 3/2-4/24/64 =
TITLE OF CASE neroer MaDe ey rr
: MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR, jhic
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) haan auedecmead
(JURE) IS = CUBA
RA - CUBA NeBb-4
‘CLASSIFIED BY SUG VS)
DECLASSIFVON-ESH
SYNOPSIS: RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in Jue
osta Rica but no definite, information

re JURE activities there &)FRANCISC¢ {A}
BORDEN HARTMAN resides San, Salva: ’
ALL INFORMATION CONTAIVED put apparently is inactive. [Background

(sp)

FIED information set out re JURE Gélegate - § peMse
in Mex4.co Yottya) J Lay-4Y
: ~ RUC - be TAY, SRCES
i 8.
REFERENCES; Mexico City letter 2/28/64. wl) paged OnpRI//r5

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E, KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

Paani ~__ SPRIAL AGENT Ts feo wares de

COPIES MADE:

Hy AC al CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
fac] 105-3776  DEGLASSIECATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CiA INFORMATION.
salaaeaeaabisiaestrars “| ADTHIS OOCUMENT. JM 6-35-97)
REVIEWED BY EBHJFK TASK FORCE erteyt Fon—the as—
iy : nPeenae os std Lien .
REVIEWED thy seep iris vac lala
Record ef Attached Report Notations” ION FORGE 2 oh 7
ace TT é)
: SY-RELFASA IN FULL “CLASSPRICATION

1N PART . ACTIGT NS ae
DENIAL

me iB 7 it
NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 47 105-NGSY3 HE



ee
; ficfosrre

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps,

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no sdentisy ene. data on the Cubans in
charge of these men. :

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under
training. iC )

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. @)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (¢)

On March 3, 1964,|RICHARD RASTETTER,\ Head of
the CIA Station, United Statés Embassy, San Jose, advised (S<1 \()

COVER PAGE )
Cc

"SECRET!

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 48


C secrep (O
yw)

fic 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica. were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (Sct)

©) [Rasterren btated that it is his understanding
that représentativésS of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister. of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Reeuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. iC 016-6)

» On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B. BRaby, | Head of the CIA s)
Station, United States EmbasSy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. ($4) (x)

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E.:KNAPP, ) uj

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished pro. iptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received, ul

COVER PAGE
D

: -  GECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 49


mf
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G
In Reply, Please Refer to

Flee © GONHIDENTIAL = ap 29 1s

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

W-Aa-§ (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)
CLASSIFIED BY S66 YZ,

DECLASSIFY Gis: cox,

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization, & )

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica, OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed tothe present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

5)
EWED BY SB\/JFK TASK FORCE

inte) Canmiim rar ie ar

RE
GN Shea

SSE IN FULL a ‘Group 1
RELEASE IN PART Excluded from Automatic
TOTAL DENIAL Downgrading and Declassification

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 50



CONFIDENTIAL

: OLSON ‘advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
1 whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras.(()

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (©

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte, No. 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
1964, cA) (u)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. u)

: When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, J6)(u)

-~2-/
CONFIDENTIAL

ad 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 51


: . . SECKED

FD-263, (ey, 5-1-59)

4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

I
neronrinG oFrice oPriGkor onicin
Fl

a

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

FPR 29 1964

MEXICO, D. BUREAU 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE _ ri REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR, jk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA CHARACTER OF CASE
faa Revolutionary -Junta)
JURE IS - CUBA 29.
RA - CUBA a [1-23-4
CLASSIFIED BY 5&6 ScD
LASSIEY OM: S5Y i
SYNOPSIS!  [RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO. ig tiead of JURE in. Jr «)

re JURE activities there

osta Rica but no definite informati
FRANCISCO(U jr
BORDEN HARTMAN resides Sai Salvado' 7
GAINED but apparently is inactive, [Background so¢ym CHE,
Gy

TFORMATION COM information set out re JURE lelegate fp
TH TS UNCLASS in Mexico | Zim.) /o-,
: iL fips somlle:
- RUC ~ 7
ied by
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64 yjDeclssity on: QADR 7/25
ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on (
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

ore VIEWED SYORSEEK TASK FORCE Dono warren spaces peLow il
COPIESMADE: — REviEWed BYR AT
ON
ee gil 108-224 243 RELEASE IN FULL CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
[ac} 1) 05-3776) RELEASE IN PART DECLASSIICSTION ANDIOR,
SEE cover page! TOTAL DENIAL IN THIS DOCUMENT, Jr 23-97.

gas

Dissemination Record of Attached Report VIEWED BY |etallons [ASK FORCE

Agency. Gt PA | SIpg
Request Recd. 7 1 Cj
Date Fwa, | i RELEASE IN FULL dors
now rwa. [ CL ipeiecace iy part ; ey
* ! cette BERL
EGRET a5 WSUS
t NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 52 105 WHS 3 uy


€ uy ® SECRED  @
: {ue 05-3776 : :

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps,

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP;

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under iC
training. : )

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY.(C )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. ¢)

On March 3, 1964, [RICHARD RASTETTER,| Head of 5)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advisé 0)

, _ COVER PAGE
c

‘SECRET ' Soya

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 53


a

C  serp

ccf ne

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ » and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. Gt 0K)

. (ep @asterren] states that it is his understanding
that répfesentativés of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members
of the Movimiento Reeuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly. training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information, CG

On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B, BRADY, | Head of the CIA (9
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras
but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. Ot) ‘)

The information contained in the enclosed report
. Setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP, OK) u}

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished prom tly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. Xu
COVER PAGE
D
SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 54


In Reply, Please Refer to

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

mt 7 CONRDENTIAL = #29
1-20 ysl :
: babs U } JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
CLASSIFIED AY 5 7 Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE) J Ht)
a ie ot eee
DECLASSIF (At) Spe Me
Jf 4Y

ADL INFORMATION CONTATNED

This document contains neither ae
y conclusi fo: .,
ae Classified by
reece Declassify on: (AD!
2

FIED

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. (ed)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered’ to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

pos
REVIEWED BY @/JFK TASK FORCE

on & he

Lei

a

Je rognld CONFIDENTIAL

Ri

ASE IN FULL
= IN PART
O TOTAL DENIAL

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 55



CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL‘
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is ~
active in Honduras. (@ )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934, 7.

4|
he files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a (
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4, 5
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. 6%) ua)

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
1964, Re

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the nam
of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. Say

aoa 2-
£ ONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 56 i: i Mf


Dp

§ep-263 (Rev. S-1-§9) °°" ;

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

‘SECRET

XY

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE,

(uaexrco, D. Xap APR 29 1964
TITLE OF SE u REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

TYPED BY

MATTHEW D, JR, jh
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA CHARACTER OF Crag BAMRORD
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) :
(JURE) is — CUBA 2 a4
RA - CUBA : Cfo
CLASSIFIED BY Sele Sif
“ BECLASSIEY Chu: oh L,

Set)

SYNOPSIS: RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

osta Rica but no definite, informati
re JURE activities there jPRaNcscol Eft
BORDEN HARTMAN resides inf Sa Salvador, mn hiS
ALL INFORMATION conTAINED but apparently is inactive. [Background Sp 9
HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED. information set out Fe JURE delegate 2) eX” iy
RE SHO! j in Mexico ofp : AES
peer aeaecac Bi ) we fice foo
ete Classified by
REFERENCES: , Mexico City letter 2/28/64. u) Declassify on:

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E, KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

prPROVED SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

pus
REVIEWED BY {g/JFH TASK FpROE

BU F. 05-1145430N S)
aul iaraneriah ite 20 ap cas NO OBJECTION TO
[uc] os-3776 SEIN FUL DECLASSIFICATIGN ANO/OR,

jinigeso ora sanette SE IN PART RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
C TOTAL DENIAL - M
exec pT Poe Yor Brae/e)s

Dissemination Record of Attached Report -REviEwH ORME TASK FOR

COPIES MADE:

Agency

§-30-4)
(FY)

Request Recd.

Date Fwd,

How Fwd.

By ot

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 57 SECREY 0S: NYS43B NY



ae SECRET
» @

fac 0573776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his ©
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps,

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

: The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col.. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

a head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under €)
training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY.@ )

Both Lt. Col, FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency << )}

On March 3; 1964, (RICHARD RASTETTER,| Head ot (S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advise (s

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET) od

RW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 58


L

 & secren
nif Pre

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man-as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. 4)

(2 RASTETTER [stated that it is his understanding
that r éntativesS of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information.(S<f)

On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B, BRADY, | Head of the CIA /S)
Station, United States EmbasSy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras
but stated his office is not in contact with this man, He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor-
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argeptine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru (oto

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of. investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E.° KNAPP, @Y u\

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. &) u) :

COVER PAGE

wee asi esse sdepadesssstiactanttceseaiioc” |

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 59


mm. J STATES DEPARTMENT OF a
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1964

; JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

This document contains neither

f g
” /o
rl Tecommendati sions of 4

vty of Classified by
to your ageney;

rot to be Declassify on: OADRY/, / £5

distributed outside your agency,

ALL INFORMATION-CONTAINED

. On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor.
mation concerning the activities of this organization. @)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according. to OLSON.

af ye
REVIEWED BY SBUUEK TASK FORCE iy 79-47
a 8| rela mpl De CONFIDENTIAL oe eee sole
CY RELEASE IN FULL ae TP
c SE IN PART fogeeieees eee eee /

oO ;
HW 50953 Docld:32297390 “Page 60


e 6

. CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
() whether this organization is active. in Costa Rica.

LN r
aed . OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

\ FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (4)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
1964. ©Y
e files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. Fe, Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on Apri} 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725, u)
: When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the es
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, Aw)
-2- i
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 Docla:32297390 Page 61


SFD-265-tRev. S-1-59)
a ee

SECRET!

FEDERAL. BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
XICO, D, ry BUREAU APR 29 isa 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY NFER By,
MATTHEW D. -CRAWFORD, JR. [jhk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA | caagacen oF CASE
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) } f , =)
(gURE) IS - CUBA eG oft
RA — CUBA bo SOHO
CLASSIFIED BY Slew
4 DECLASSIFY Ons & a
SYNOPSIS}; [RarmunDo QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
Costa Rica but no definite informati 7
re JURE activities phereh FRanctsco{ U) ( c)
BORDEN HARTMAN resides fn 5an_Salvado ; -
but apparently is inactive. ‘Background CHS

information set out

in Mexico?) Gy)

- RUC -
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64 44¥i) Declassify 0

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The followin;
Attache, United States

re JURE delegate

Classified

g information received from the Army
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

7 APPROVED

FASK-FORCE

COPIES MADE:

oat

SEE COVER PAGE B

ov 2
105~-114543 py RELEASE IN FU
105-3776 Cl RELEASE IN PAI
CQ TOTAL DENIAL

ARM
ri Tn

\T ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERELN 1S UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE: SHOWN

oterwrseClA HAS NO OBJECTION TI

18 Ui

(ON

CiA INFORMA

NTIS COCUMENT, Jam G-aS"97

AIR TASK FQERIACIET For pnghers:

Agency 7 ON r heal | Bema ( SLD ae
~ aif ULL chASALFIcarroy 9°30 ~
Seneeat aaa — ART (3FK)
TOTAL DENIAL
NW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 62 SFCRET 05> 453-4


SECRED @

eee
©

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in trdining. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men. 7 :

The following information was furnished to.
SA WADE E. KNAPP; i

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-~
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under
training. )

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY.@ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

: United States Government agency (ce)

On March 3, 1964, [arcuanp RASTETTER Head of(S
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advise (<i)

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 63


ic SECRE] QO

4)
[uc] 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (s€i )

5)[zasterrea|statea that it is his understanding
that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requestgd that no
dissemination be made of this information. Ale

On Narch 6, 1964, (JOHN B, BRADY, |tiead of the c1a/S)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E, KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aire » Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. esate")

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP, yuy

: Legat, Mexico will continue follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. (¥ u\

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET)

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 64


an ae ®

UN. D STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

ue CONFIDENTIAL
[1-09-4}, ; APR 29-1964

CLASSIFIED ay 5G 08, Sto WeSoera RevOLUCIONARTA CUBANA
DECLASSIFY Ci cud Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

(mr

‘ON CONTAINED
ASSIFIED

a

This docu
recommen!

mt contains neither Spe ;

nor conclusions of
erty of

io be Classified by

rot to be

agency. Declassify on: GADR 7/1/

ALL INFORMATI
HEREIN INL

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
José, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor
mation concerning the activities of this organization. (c)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
. Stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

oes
REVIEWED BY 23 /JEK TASK FORCE

an de CONFIDENTIAL

IN FULL ~—@roup-P
SEIN PART Excluded—from=Autometic

J TOTAL DENIAL giana i

50953 Docld:32297390 Page 65



|. @
CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica. .

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL |
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge’ of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
‘active in Honduras. @)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. ()

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Coasul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador,- El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
‘individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244. -MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

7 T
104g
a
7 ‘Wfhe files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. oY) Y

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No, 164, aC)
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DoclId:32297390 Page 66


BECRE;

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

vw
REPORTING FICE is OF ORIGIN PATER 29 1964
MEXICO, D. F,] BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

TYPED BY

. 7 MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR. ihk
JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA | GHARACIER OF CASE
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) i
(JURE) . 1S ~ CUBA’ U-pa-9,
RA - CUBA : = CDG
CLASSIFIED BY 2G:
: DECLASSIFY Ux evAL .
SE HeH USEEESSESEESSE! : i ¢
SYNOPSIS:  [RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

‘osta Rica but no definite informati
; re JURE. activities there [Mig FRANCISCO u)
. BORDEN HARTMAN resides fn’ San. Salvado.
fraiihidepinitheipeecabiont ta but apparently is inactive. /Background
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN information set out re JURE delegate
OTHERWISE in Mexicos]

caveben Classified b ats
REFERENCES: . Mexico City letter 2/28/64.) (u) Declassify oy OADR 7/7"

ADMINISTRATIVE: “

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State,

SPECIAL AGENT.
APPROVED INGHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE: |

BU FILE 105-114543
3\u4) rai
[lic ILE 105-3776

ow £)20/9

|AS NO. OBJECTION T0
ASSIFIGATION AND/OR,,

SEE COVER PAGE B

~- C1 RELEASE IN PART
“_Dissemingtion Record of AltachaQRgger]) REVI WJFK TASK Force &-3°-4

Agency

Request Recd.

paefen TCRELEAGE IN FULL
— C1_RELEASE IN PART ACTI ie
% TOTAL DENIAL
SECRET) 5-45-14,

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 67


ay

‘SECRET &

5

N ‘fic]8s-s076 :
ow
|: Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
infofmation there are approximately three hundred men -in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
~ trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It-was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

.He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men,

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E, KNAPP: :

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS, 7
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised’ that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under (a
training. )

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO ray.@ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

1 and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (©)

On March 3, 1964, [itcHanp RASTETTER,| Head of(2)
the CIA Station, United StafSs Embassy, San ey advised (SOCK

_ COVER PAGE
c

SECRET)

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 68


a

© ” SECRET CO

t y a
ee
{uc]105- 776

{
SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man.as a brother~
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. Gad)

(9 [aasterren| stated that it is his understanding
that r ‘esentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Reeuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information.) C

On March 6, 1964, (JOHN B, BRADY,] Head of the CIA >)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor.
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras, He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and. from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. 64)

, The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE BL HNAPP, u)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. Kw)

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET: ‘

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 69



oxo STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reply, Please Refe WASHINGTON 25, D. CG.
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. CONFIDENTIAL  APR29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

Sprmpy. VE.

ins neither
sions of
of

‘ Se ee Classified
distributed outside your agency, Declassify onX OADR Ue

This document coi
recommendati:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT SHOWN

OTHERW

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. (S)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

gos
REVIEWED BY SSi/JJEK TASK FORCE H-93-47
CONFIDENT IA BiASSFIED BY SUG SLOYSE
DECLASSIFY ON: 26x
Group 1
Gkeiuded—trom Automatic — ay,
~-Bowngrading and—Beelassification

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 70


aon 6. GG
CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (¢)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
‘Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador .(€)

)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte, No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

, that he was born on April 25, 1934, 1

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

aan ®) uj

e files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D, F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. &% (4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, u)

-2.-
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 - DocId:32297390 Page 71


5 @ = secreD ry

*  “ FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
REPORTING OFFICE. i Ls ICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD.
(mexico, D. FV BUREAU APR29 1964 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE ‘ REPORT MADE BY ‘TYPED BY
MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR, ih

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA CHARACTER OF CASE
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) - |’
(JURE) ; IS ~ CUBA
RA ~ CUBA
CLASSIFIED B

aialy

“DECLASSIFY ON: 25%

SYNOPSIS; [Ratmunpo GUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
Costa Rica but no definite, informatio,
re JURE activities ehorg ) FRANCISCO Ci
BORDEN HARTMAN resides San_Salvador,
but apparently is inactive. Background
information set out re JURE de egate

in Mexico] gy)

~ RUC -

AUL INFORMATION CONTAINED

: : ; Classiiied by’
REFERENCES! Mexico City letter 2/28/64, Upectassify ony

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State. ;

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

‘SPECIAL AGET
APPROVED cope
CT Se

an
BU FI ros-r14548 (20 for.
At Ot UL
[ey 4) 105-3776 . ;

SEE COVER PAGE B CO TOTAL DENIAL
REVIEWED BY

§ NO OBJECTION TO
CPDL ASSTCATION ANDIOR, |
RELEASE OF CI i ORUATN, #
IN THIS DOCUMENT, J BE

SIDE WOR
PART CLASSIFICATION
Aor.

C_FOTAL DEN

50953 SECREU MS WUGYEH Y

DociId:32297390 Page 72


: - fuic]ids-s776 SECRE]

. C)
Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP; : :

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col, FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY, He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under
training, 1)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO,
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration I
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
* anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. ¢ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. )

On March 3, 1964, (arcuanp RASTETTER,] Head of(S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San e, advi ed (Set Ng)
ql x

COVER PAGE
Cc

SECRET

, NW 50953) DocId:32297390 Page 73 .


© secren G
fic {Sane

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man.as.a brother-~
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. ($e)

: 2[pasterrea[statea that it is his. understanding
that r Sentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members
of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. GO

On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B, BRADY,|Head of the CI s)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E, KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He’
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. es}

ot The information contained in the enclosed report H
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E,. KNAPP, &) uy i

N

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when imataesnictanatl<
; ul

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET]

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 74


UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF @.:
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ly, Please Ref aes WASHINGTON 25, D. G
In Reply, Please Refer to

= a

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
i (FIED

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. «)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy,.San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

It pA-4

00S
REVIEWED BY SBi/JFK TASK FORCE

CLASSIFIED BY

CONFIDENT Tay Ue sry ONZE
 “Group_L_\

SELES, PE —Exctuded from Automatie—

TOTAL DENIAL cwNBracing wnd-Peelassification

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 75



} CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of-QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. @)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that, this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

mt)
he files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO. ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. q@ u}

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the hames
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, GK |

~2- v

CONFIDENTIAL

BW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 76


(Rev. 51-59)

(SECRET

®

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ah)

DATE,

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

REPORTING OFFICE
MEXICO, D. FY BUREAU APR 29 1964 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
7 MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR. jjhk

er (JURE)

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban olutionary Junta)

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA
RA - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY Jab
DECLASSIFY Gi

Y GN: 25%,

JFK TASK FORCE

: i sau men . :
VAIORSIS ¢ [Raimundo QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in
< reo Costa Rica but no definite information
QP zz re JURE activities there RS§FRANCISCO(U,
> pranis a BORDEN HARTMAN resides in’San Salvador, SWF
2 4 8 9 but apparently is inactive. Background
ir ui 3 z information set out re JURE lelegate
= wags in Mexico ov | ;
S| ia Classified by 17
# Soo peice Declassify on: OADR Y/
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2728/64. OK u)
ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information
Attache, United States Embassy, San
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP,
in the details since Colonel HARVEY

received from the Army
Jose, Costa Rica, on

is not being set forth
advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

(7

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE: FLEABE OF CIA INFC RMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. It 6 ~
“USN nn SHEEP FR He) BLAME econ avin
[uc] 105-3776 Sipe, HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED i
“ $-30 EXCEPT WHERE SHCWN
SEE COVER PAGE B (HF OTHERNTSE .

Agency

OSE TAS TORCE

jofations
Lf”

sj

By

Request Red “i sve}
Date Fwd, ™ nas: ATION
How Fw. ; Actidn
EMAL
WE-MMSYS NY

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 77


ney fice sr

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that. Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps,

secReEn ©

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
: and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
7 charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP; . 7

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under|()
training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (¢)

On March 3, 1064, [RICHARD RASTETTER, | Head of(S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advi ed Syty)

COVER PAGE
c

(SECREN)

| NW 50953) DocId:32297390 Page 78


: SECRET)
re :
fieftoSor70

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable. to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. Gu .

(oy [Rasterren [state that it is his understanding
that r entatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. &

i On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B, Bray,| Head of the cra( 5)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that. his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man, He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor.
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, :
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru.

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investi. ion in Central ‘America
was furnished to SA WADE E,.KNAPP, ie uj

Legat, Mexico will continue td follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. ()/ u
a

NO

COVER PAGE
D

SECRET)

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 79


mn J STATES DEPARTMENT OF 9.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ly, Please Refe WASHINGTON 25, D. G
In Reply, Please Refer to

Fle Ne CONFIDENTIAL — apr 29 tase

: JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE)

neither /
sions of

rty of

your agency; Classified by
Declassify on: j

‘This document conta
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT fj
OTHERW.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern, CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. «)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were deliveréd to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY €BI/UFK TASK FORCE

on 920/97 FA N29 -47
a | frag B CONETOENTIAL CLASSIFIED BY 8 Sa fly

PECL ARSIEY OF

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 80


CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had-never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (c)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in _
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S, A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN | is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

1964, K ) )

ie files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. e4) u)

T-1 furnished the oe information on March 31,

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the. names
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, © ty

-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 61


ae Sel-59) Po ‘SECRED
| é &

| FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Sy Wrowan Sere EeocHtet Hee nee Penera Ges

MEXICO, D. F] BUREAU APR 29 1964 | 3/2-4/24/64

Ol E REPORT MADE BY : TYPED BY

Mii ; MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR. bin

JUNTA REYOLUCIONARIA CUBANA :

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) hau auctnciutuadactau?

(JURE) IS - CUBA

RA = CUBA Wedaa-4
DICH

voy

SYNOPSIS:  [RAIMUNDO QUIDIEIILO is head of JURE in
Costa Rica but no eptieey. Eryeciriew
re JURE activities there RANCISCO (U 7
BORDEN“ HARTMAN resides in San_Salvador, @

x but /Spparently is inactive. ackground
al RMA NED / 0 a
pies sited information set out re JURE delegate gy At oy
CEPT WHERE Suowa in Mexico J@¢iV mere SWS

YTHERWISE

~ RUC - Classified by 42
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. (UH ne on: ORDR
ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT.
APPROVED INGHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

BU FILE 105-114543 US
(like 105-3776 ENO oy Br sk FOBEBUSSrCaric4 ANDOR,
Hae 2h ry ld RELEASE CF CIA INFORMATION
_ SEE COVER PAGE B PASE js | INTHIS DOCUMENT. Je? 6-25-97
REVIEWED BY #8WJFK TASK FORC! 5
: Way
ant
Ih ea acne

“| Notations

_ Request Recd: | : Se

pa Fak DENIAL |

How Fwdr"

By

SECRET
NW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 82 MS HYSYS HY


oe tafe SECRET)

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable .to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished -_
SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under {C)
training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY.(@)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United, States Government agency. (C) 7

On March 3, 1964, [RICHARD RASTETTER,] Head of © i
the CIA Station, United StatSs Embassy, San Jése, advis' Ba)C0

COVER PAGE

\B¥ 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 83


k
i

6
bales

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man. as a brother~
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

105-3776
Ww

_ ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica.

: (9 Gasterran|etates that it is his understanding
that ri

esentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members
of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He rhea bos eat no
dissemination be made of this information. (Sz)

On March 6, 1964, [Sonn B. BRADY, { Head of the CIA S)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,-
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infom
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru, ie C -

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E,* KNAPP, go

Legat, Mexico will continue . follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received dul

COVER PAGE

1 D

SECRET

+

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 84


UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF 9...
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

ry Sccetaaa ater ~ CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1966

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
_ (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

This document contains neither

: ions of 7
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED Eioua Pee eet Classitied-by

A eee

the F: 7 . .
HEREIN 15 Uh the F ned to your ageneyi — Declassify on: OADR|7/#5
EXCEPT " _ it and Sabuaabed
OTHERWISE distribut: your agency.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. @)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for. two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

Os a :
REYIENED BY SAIJEK TASK FORCE /1-47 47
CONFIDENTIAL
NWO fice ~| A SSIFIED BY Sof Sus TZ

N FULL Sreup—i— LASSIEY ON: 25x.

SO GIN es

ELEASE IN PART Bi ata -narerrahreepeor re il n Fe)
Co TOTAL DENIAL — a ==

HW 50953) Docld:32297390 Page 85



>
CONFIDENTIAL

: OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. (¢)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (@)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-~1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte, No, 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
1964. Cx) in)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D, F,, Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April, 4,
1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. ca iu)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the name:
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, Yu)
~-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 86


ED+263, (Revs 5-1-59)

(SECREU

FEDERAL. BUREAU. OF INVESTIGATION

wW

REPORTINGOFFICE

MEXICO, D. F]

FICE OF ORIGIN

-. BUREAU

DATE

APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban ‘Revolutionary Junta)

4

REPORT MADE BY,

MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR.
CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

ghk

®

(JURE)

Is ~ CUBA
RA - CUBA

['-99A7

eh

2

REVIEWED BY eA TASK FORGE

on 2

CX RELEASE IN

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. Of uv) Declassify

(RELEASE IN Pi
TOTAL DE

shiprsis 3
=<
=

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is Head of JURE i
osta Rica but no definite, informati
re JURE activities aa
BORDEN HARTMAN resides in’ San_Salvad
but apparently is inactive. [Backgro

informati set, out re JURE delegate
in Mexico dieu :

- RUC ~

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose,
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP,
in the details since Colonel HARVEY

n

JFRANC rsco{ 4) ( f)
,

und

Classified bi

The following information received from the Army

Costa Rica, on
is not being set forth
advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

GWA-HAS-NO-ORJECTION TO :
——, DECLEGSSIAEEON ANDIOR, PONG WRITEINSPACES BELOW
COPIES MADE: RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION] _ ) Mm hs 47
BU FILE 105-114543 IN THIS DOCUMENT. [77 © ‘1; .
wa EXCEPT Fon ne| tbat lta sia aieh
{uc 105-3776 — Brn cjeers eee 7
SEE COVER PAGE B sup fitse OTHER }
& ZO ‘7
JFK) [3s :
“Dissemination Record of Attached ReponEVIENYEL [i'Nofetiongh TAO ediastall P=
a —| —fir-Shefo mld’ “s
ee ; ELL CLASSAICATION
ce | r i ACTION .
How Fwd... | r ih EASE IN PART ce wate
& a TOTAL EMAL

, HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 87 ‘SECRET!

OS HYSYE MY


is {uc oo % SECRED 6

. Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all-in training. He said he understands they are being

‘trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes, It was his belief that Puerto Viego was. used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement. between the two camps.

: He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data ‘on the Cubans in
charge of these men. _ .

The following information was furnished ‘to
SA.WADE E. KNAPP: : +

7 On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

+ land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for

7 purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
,and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under rca
training. )

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second :
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, (¢ )

Both Lt. Col, FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
‘and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency.(C)

On Warch 3, 1964, (RICHARD RASTETTER,)Head of (S) °
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advise 6AI®)
°

COVER PAGE

eu 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 88


_ C SECRET Q

fu ']105-376
)
SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man.as a brother~
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said. among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. GAry,

(>) (aasterred] statea that it is his understanding
that r. Sentatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested t no
dissemination be made of this information. L a

On March 6, 1964, [JOHN B. BRADY,| Head of the CIA s)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E, KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man. He
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru, SOC

The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E,*KNAPP, 00) u)

Legat, Mexico will continue follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. ) (u)

COVER PAGE
D

‘SECRET
N

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 89



UNI A STATES DEPARTMENT OF Qacs
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G

In Reply, Please Refer to r
Fe Ne ~~ CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1966

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta ~ JURE)

PRS

ALL INFORMATION contarn Pel le —
HERELN IS NCI, TED Be , Classitied by 3242 a
EXCEPT WHERE 5 “Declasalfy ef? On

OTHERWISE

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA ‘
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa. Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. ¢)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved:.the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY-ZaHVUFK TASK FORCE 32-97

nc CONFIDENTIA assed EY Bl g SUDI(Sie
SE IN FUL EERE CLASSIFY ON: 25%.

0 E IN PART pare mover meeracaaeh
N TOTAL DENIAL Doungrading-ane-Dectassifiestion

953 Docld:32297390 Page 90



gS eats &

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras, al

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

- that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A.,-San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte, No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back~-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T.

1964. wu
. The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on aa 4,

1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. 1(u)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names
of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. w641 @) (u)

-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

e-2.
CONFIDENTIAL

ae DocId:32297390 Page 91


‘

4

» Fate Bey Sts ° ‘SE CRET :
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
REPORTING OEPIGE Pica OF ORIGIN a SHES ieATivEERICD
(naxrco, D. rl] er BUREAU APR 29 t9n4 |" 3/2-4/24/64
TITLE OF ‘SE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

MATTHEW D; CRAWFORD, JR,

jh

CHARACTER OF CASE

(JURE) IS — CUBA [22-4 D
RA = CUBA 7 . Ty 6
cLassiricD BY SOLE”
DECI BSS Y Ui ow ead
SYNOPSIS; [RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in’ \

osta Rica but no definite informatio,
re JURE activities there)

\LL INFORMATION CONTAINED
JEREIN 18 UNCLASSIFIED
aXCEPT WEERE:
YTHERWESS

)FRANCISCO iy
BORDEN HARTMAN residés in San_Salvador;
but apparently is inactive.
information se
in Mexico fg Vv

~ RUC -

out re JURE delegate

Background vikig
/o-

LTGALE ,SWLLES

An 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 92

Classified by
Mexico City letter 2/28/64. (u) Declassify on:
ADMINESTRATIVE:

REFERENCES:

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
fmation had already been disseminated to the United States
aAxny and to the United States Department of State.

NN

SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

os |
REVIEWED BY Ry TASK FACE
105-114543
ON Shobha |___DeCLassirica

io 205-3776 | RELEASE IN FLILL

N PART|
TOTAL DENIAL

iD
Ai

4
=a
z
2
g

—
Po
Bi

z
Ad
Fouad
rr
UCR

z
ao
=
5
)

~
=

“ae

OW AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CiA iNFORMATION,
IN THIS DOCUMENT. Sm «,

CXtept Fed the gi

Sibpie se

"SHER a fh

SIDE
CLASS YRICATION
ACTIO“

SEE COVER PAGE B 0

“Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations

Agency *"

Request Recd. foes

Date Fwd. -

How Fwd

ed

By

“SECRET

ME WYSYEAY


~y
q

HW 50953

DocId:32297390 Page 93

igh sre ® | SECRET @

W,

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training. He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion
purposes, It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used
by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP;

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QurRos,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-~
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under &)
training. :

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed’ by MANUEL ARTIME and: MANOLO ray, ©)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. @)

On March 3, 1964, [RicHaRD RASTETTER, [Head ot (: (Ss
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, advisé FEO)

COVER PAGE

SECRET


© SECRED O |
MC id 3776 |
a

SA_WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO,- He was unable to state which of
these individuals, if.any, was then in Costa Rica. ($< )(\¥)

(at RASTETTER| stated that it is his understanding
that r ntatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Reeuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica. He’ requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. (g-€)

On March 6, 1964, [some B. BRADY, | Head of the CIA S)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE
RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this:man. He 7
said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor-
mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras. He
further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,
believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru,

The information contained in the enclosed report \
setting forth the results of investigation in Central America
was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP, Ru)

Legat, Mexico will continue tO-follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the
Bureau and interested offices when received. Uj

COVER PAGE
D
SECRED

HW 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 94


unr STATES DEPARTMENT OF ocx
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

I py, Pe eer CONFIDENTIAL APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA tok
(Cuban Revolutionary: Junta - JURE) .

e . spgym
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED recent vor eos of [A ’ Ay
STFIED 2 your agency; Classified by €
pean SLES Dectassify on: ADR 7//P5

OTHERWISE

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS..CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. «&)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica,

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY ZBYJFK TASK FORCE :
|-27-47

oy, Sholr mpl oon propnriat Nae

X RELEASE IN FULL Re lak BSH

RELEASE IN PART XG)

(i) TOTAL DENIAL

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 95


@ &
c ONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica. .

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. «)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that. FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. >)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States
Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No, 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964, wu ;
e files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER Hw a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on Apr} 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. u)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the \names
. of Professor LUIS G, TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, Ho(u)
poet penal

CONFIDENTIAL

BW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 96


FD-263, (Pyw85-1-39)

SECRET
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Rromnngarnce Ficcowomant _
[itexico, D. FU) BuREAU APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta) neasaruseaboaastacanaa! g
(JURE) IS ~ CUBA "29-99 (oe
| RA = CUBA yo¥ & fe
CLASSIFIED SY SIF

MATTHEW D, CRAWFORD, JR.

REGLASSIFY ON

SYNOPSIS; [RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

HEREIN I$ UNCLASSIFIED but apparently is inactive. (Background

Costa Rica but no definit: PRANets00 (i

2

re JURE activities there].QQFRANCISCO|L1) €
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED BORDEN HARTMAN resides in San_Salvad S ps Fh Nose
o-PLH-GY

OTHERWISE

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico \¢(w

- RUC - Classified by

‘ 4 IR? Ah, ¢$
REFERENCES: Mexico City letter: 2/2sve4 KN on
ADMINISTRATIVE: ; , :

The following information received from the Army
Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on
March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth
in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-
mation had already been disseminated to the United States
Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

‘SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE, DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

hy EOLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
1os-ar7e oy Spe reli REERSS or cia INFORMATION,

BU rela aaaaeaaey BY hk ee rere eae
ley

4

ffe€E OURCES

SEE COVER PAGE B ETN FULL i Tras OOGMENT. 70 Gas
SL O01. RELEASE IN PART z1eepr Fo Ab I
Arm ;
yiewen: BY CAR APORICBIAL : $-38
jation Regord of Attached Report Notations : _ (we t)

Agency : * SID:
Reques [A emi cake INH CLAS#WeIcarton
bate wa, [- . acribn
How ‘Fwd. iz RECEAB 4

By [oO TOTAI DENTAL { ae

\ 3¥ 50953 Docld:32297390 Page 97

[05 WYSYEHY


| can
ce

SECRE]

on @

o.

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his
information there are approximately three hundred men in
all in training, He said he understands they are being
trained for infiltration into Cuba and. not for invasion

a purposes, It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there
seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being
trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization
and could furnish ‘no identifying data on the Cubans in
charge of these men, ;

The following information was furnished to
SA WADE E. KNAPP;

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,
Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the
President, advised that. the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY
is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual
who is. friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is
head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-
CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the
land of TEODORO QUIROS, He said this training is not for
purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration
and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under (Ss)
training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second
in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO
Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration
and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion
Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an
anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated
that the information furnished by them was confidential
and requested that it not be disseminated to any other
United States Government agency. (C\

On March 3, 1964, [RICHARD RASTETTER, }Hoad of (S)
the CIA Station, United States Embassy, San Jose, adviséd Stung

COVER PAGE
c

SECRET}

, NW 50953) DocId:32297390 Page 98


— © SECRET - ©
: . MC \ |
xO

- SA.WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local
coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother~ :
in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who
have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were
ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and
AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of f
these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica, i 7

©) [Rasrerrer btated that it is his understanding

i entatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,
have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex~President of
Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of
Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by
MANUEL ARTIME, have Close contact with President FRANCISCO
ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are
allegedly training in Costa Rica, He requested that no
dissemination be made of this information. G

i On March 6, 1964, [Sor B. BRADY,| Head of the CIA Ss)
Station, United States Embassy, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
advised SA WADE E, KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE i

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, {
departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine, '
and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. SAW :

| The information contained in the enclosed report
setting forth the results of NAPE, ED ion in Central America
tA)

was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP,

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities
of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America
and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the i
Bureau and interested offices when neceaved. @) uj :

COVER PAGE

HW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 99


In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORMATION CONTATNED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

eH : == ON

vv STATES DEPARTMENT OF Brice :
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CONFIDENTIAL sons wc

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA
(Cuban. Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

our agency; 7
to be Declassify on:

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,
Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San
Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was
known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA
CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.
CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who
is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and
sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses |
in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether
JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-
mation concerning the activities of this organization. @)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States
Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,
that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON
stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,
Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica, “gs

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an
import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent
to the United States Department of State, at which time it an,
was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used
by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The
Department of State approved the export of the two LCM
vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REMEWED BY @RVJFK TASK FORCE

c1 Sheba mals CONFIDENTIAL 39-4]

\@ RELEASE IN FULL iy CLASSIFIEN BY SGOS Stoo
L iN PART —trotwiee troniutonatteDECLA we EK
Se ncconanenttt <——Downgraaing-snd_Dectassifieation (wn)

Nn NW 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 100


_ NW 50953

° 7!

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO
and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know
whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL
ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips
to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who
are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E, OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had
not received any information indicating that the JURE is
active in Honduras. ¢ )

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special
Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,
advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or
at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there
is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against
the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. @)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul; United States
Embassy, San Salvador, E1 Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,
that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant
visa for the United States which had been issued to him in
Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this
individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora
Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides
at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244, MITCHELL stated the only back-
ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is
that he was born on April 25, 1934,

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,
are 4 0)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,
Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned
to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a
citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on “ey 4,
1929, LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. rasta 4 ® (a)
ni

When' entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the
of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, GK 4)

-~-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32297390. Page 101 4
