# 124-10217-10034

## Page 1

124-10217-10034

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10217-10034.

HQ

2-1821-1ST NR 59, 2ND NR 59, 3RD NR 59

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

1O :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/04/1965

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

CASTRO, FIDEL, ASSOC, PLOT TO ASSA, INTV, VDEH, SUSP,

CUBELA, ROLANDO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC 2 LTR, MEMO, LHM

v9.1

NH 50953

2

DooId: 32296258

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1117.1

NH

50953

-SEC

SEGRET

"INOPPIATE ACENCIES

[CES

NG

1

Belmont

Mr o

Mohr

DeLoach

Sullivan

Liaison

Mr. Wannall

MT •

Cotter

Mr o

Nasca

June 7, 1965

EX COURIER SERVICE

DEC

ON

'IED B

5/2%

CATON CONTAINED

NOLASSIFIED

SHOWN

ALI INFO

HEREIN I

HIRWISE

SU

JUN

Anu Sai

Ker

1 - Mr O'Brien

Vice Adniral Willian F. Raborn, Jr., USN (Ret.)

Director

Contral Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. Ca

Classified BY SP6 BJALCL

Dear Admiral Faborn:

Declassity on OADR 4/16184/

7

ONI0V38-0,038

Enclosed is a nemorandum sett

forth information

furnished by Victor Domindador Maninosa

ornandez on:

June 2, 1965. To Intormation set forth in this memorandum

NO

was furnished to li, Austin Horn of your Agency on June 3,

1965, by Spociad Agent Sam 5. Papich of this Dareau.

Ve, loan subsequently advised iu. rapich on dune 3, 1905,

chat Mao

Harold Svensos of your Agency would be in

New

Vorl: City on June A, 1005, in order to contact Espinosa

In view of to censitive nature of the

information contained in Shis memorandun,

dissemination ha

been rostricted to tho White House and the Attorney Genera

Sinceresy yours;

CIA HAS NO ARJECTION TO

DECT!"

ND/OR,

TI. Edgar. Foover

REJ

FORMATION

ISDE REVERSE

SIDER

ALCATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Enclosure JBM 11-9•93

2

L82

NOT RECORDED

167 JUN 10 1965

105-131629

DECLASSIFIED BY 9803 1

DAD NON

TOB:p1h, (11)

NOTE:

- 0r.1818-93 TE

2"0

Classified"Secret" since data

is set

{orth

regarding

1226

CIA contact of an individual

possibly

in a plot to

assassinate Cuban Government leaders.

ACTION

Tolnor.

Belmont

Monr

Cohoe:

Ccis

CLOSURE

SECRET

Group 1

XIA VA

Exeluded iron automo

• JUN

9) 1965

downgrading dad

9 JUN 9 1965

Ho.

'Gon

CAN 18 1965

MAIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

'SEORET

3RD NR 59

DocId: 32296258 Page 2

---

## Page 3

→ Tuma

SECRET

PIANS TO ASSASSINATE CUSAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to cive this

assistance at

a nchedt's notice as the plotters may be able to hold the

Covernment for only a day or two.

He was in Spain for about tuenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contacted other cuban

exilesfand learned that a man naned WilLianson, who is an

charge of the Central Inielligence Agency Offica in Madrid S

Is aware or tils pict to a certain degree.

the Cuban exilen

do

not trust Inlizanson and allege he has seen compromised

= Cuban girl nicknaned "Tota; " who was sent from lavana

Spain for the specific purpose of getting in contact with

W31132nSOn

5l (5)

He requested to be put in contact with a representative

of the Central Intelligence Agency, who was thoroughly familiar

with the Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the

individuals involved

in the plot. (BA)X)(u)

NOTE:

Above information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security - Cubà."

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba.

Our investigation of this plat, which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders,

AImeida Bosque may be identical with person serving

38

First

Deputy Minister of the Cuban Revolutionary Arned Forces

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney.

General. (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to White House and Director, Central

И)

SECRETI

NOTE CONTATUED PAGE THREE

NH 50953 DocId: 32296258 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NH 50953

SE

TION CONTAINET

CLASSIFIED

SHOWN

ALL INFORVA

_HEREIN IS

SE

EXCEPT W

OTHERN

1

Mr o

Belmont

Mr • Mohr

Mr • DeLoach

The Attorney General

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 70- June 1,

Sullivan

1965

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

FEL

INFORMATION

Director, FBI

IN THIS DOCÜMENT.

5BH 11-9-931

Mr:

Wannall

Mr

Cotter

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

INTORNAL DECURITY - CUBA C

15

313o Lasca

VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA

MTo

03 Erien

HERNANDEZ

Enclosed is a memorandum contalning information

which may be of interest to you.

The memorandum sets

forth data concerning an alleged assassination attempt

against leading Cuban Government officials.

In view of the sensitive nature of this

information, dissemination is being restricted to you.

the White House and the Central Intelligence Agency.

enclosure

PLANS OF QUENN EXILES

105-131629

ASSESINHT:

SELECTED CURT

DIERN

NENT

IF ME/RS

1 - The Deputy Attorney General™

"(Enclosure)

MODU ONIOVB8-OMJ3N

S9. He 40 2

ORIGINAL RIL

Classified

Declassily.

DECLASS

BY

6.855

ON

28

11/301

Classified "Seeret" because plot to assassinate

Cuban Goverument officials may

be of possible operational

significance regarding CIA.

9803 RoDlICe

/ENCLOSURE

APRIATE AGETC

EC- 15

185-

4:100

30 JUN: 8 1965

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale'

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Tratter

MAILED 2

JUN: 4 1965

COMM-EB!

GROUP

152-187 Pm

RROORD

79

JUL B

1955

JOL 8- 19652270

J. TELETYPE UNIT L

SE

202.

2ND NR: 59

Doold: 32296258

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to give this assistance at

a moment's notice as the plotters may be able to hold the

Goverment for only a day or two.

He was in Spain for about twenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contacted other cuban

exileskand learned that a man named Williamson, wo is zn

charge of the Central Intelligence Agency.

ostice in Madridals

The Cuban exiles

a. Cuban girl nicknaned "Tota," who was sent from Havana

to Spain for the specific purpose of getting in contact with

Wizziamson. 100G)

He requested to be put in contact with a representative

of the Central Intelligence Agency who was thoroughly familiar

with the Cubar situation and knowledgeable concerning the

Individuals involved in the plot. (5) (4)

NOTE:

Above information. contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security " Cuba."

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba.

Our investigation of this plat, which

waS

not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

(4)

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders. (S)2

as

First

Deputy linister of the cubar Rovolutionary Ared Forced.

Almeida Bosque may be identical with person serving

, (к)

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney

General, (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to White House and Director, Central

?, SECRET

'SECRET

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE

NH 50953 DocId: 32296258 Page 5

---

