# 124-10273-10041

## Page 1

124-10273-10041

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Memorandum E. S. Miller to Mr. W. M. Felt

Re: LIAISON SECTION

with other agencies is handled by domestic liaison supervisors dealing with

those agencies. In similar fashion the British will not furnish derogatory (5)

information directly to the Department of Defense in connection with its

background-type investigations but require that such data be channeled

through FBI. These are just two of the instances in which a foreign liaison

... matter becomes a domestic liaison matter and should be under the same

supervision.

Our foreign offices are necessarily closely involved in the

operations of several U. S. agencies and require domestic liaison with those

agencies. Our many problems surrounding the establishment and maintenance

of foreign offices have to be coordinated with the Department of State. It is

essential that we know and have access to the proper official at State in order

to solve problems faced by the Legats as without prodding State moves very

slowly. Lour foreign offices work closely with the Central intelligence

Agency(ClA) stations abroad. CIA Headquarters does not permit its overseas

stations to disseminate information to other agencies overseas, including our

Legats, except in unusual circumstances. They frequently, however, suggest

to our Legats that CIA Headquarters be asked for particular items.

These

can most rapidly be secured by direct request from a domestic liaison

supervisor. In a number of areas, our Legal Attaches work closely with (S)

local representatives of the U. S. military. Leads are passed to our Legat

which are then followed up by liaison contacts in Washington with the appropriate

military headquarters.

Liaison, or, in other terms, the establishment of a harmonious

relationship, is basically the same whether practiced in Washington or Tokyo.

I feel that it would be to the Bureau's advantage to have our liaison operations

closely coordinated and directly supervised in the same area.

This has proved

to be an efficient and productive arrangement in the past, and we believe that

the re-establishment of limited direct liaison in Washington should be handled

by the same

supervision which has been given to our posts abroad. The work in

both areas is primarily intelligence oriented, yet does not fall within the

normal responsibilitios of the present operational sectionsIt is considered.

that we should not leave the foreign supervision in its present area; which is

fully occupied with Arab terrorism, Chinese espionage, and Cuban, Arab,

Chicano and Jewish extremists. A logical and economical step would be to

make the present foreign liaison supervision an integral part of the new

liaison section. Under this arrangement, the foreign liaison supervision

would be handled as a separate and distinct unit composed of the three

supervisors. presently engaged in this.work. - This unit would be completely

2 -

CONTINUED - OVER

JFK

(I)(B)

---

