}124-90065-10029]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER :. 124-90065-10029
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-179869-31
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: © CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE: * ~-
DATE: — 10/18/1968
‘PAGES: 5.
SUBJECTS :
RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret \
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact

COMMENTS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

i OPENING CRITERIA :

06/23/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO.

v9.1

| HW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 1


“-

Ng Qa

“eC.-TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505
Ps 18 OCT weg

TO : Director /
Federal Bureau of Investigatioy
‘ Attention: Mr. S. J. Papieh
ig
Z Deputy Director for Plans “*~
aa
Libertad ANTIGUA-Arrencibia j FORMATION
Suspect Cuban Intelligence Agent |v [f{j CUMENT, 2X CeyPT, Pe
: the beaches s-
: KP a-Q-G3
: . 1. Referencé is made to Subject on whom considerable
ee information has been disseminated to the Bureau, the last from

this Agency being CSCI-316/03970-68 dated 9 October 1968.

cal
\ debriefing of Libertad ANTIGUA Arrencibia which was provided

2. Attached herewith is a copy of the 9 September 1968 fi
by our Miami representative. y
Ve

3. Information on the following individuals was compiled
from the files of this office and from the files of a group
of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information

collection: é eke
OE Leg hs 31.

pass ie span
Manuel ABELEND Martin was vana,
Cuba on 17 April 1911. He -is married to_Elena
_}RODRIGUEZRegulez’, a Cuban citizen. His parents
. “Were Juan ABELEND, a former Cuban Consul in Lisbon,
Portugal, and Concepcion ‘MARTIN. Both parents are -
deceased. Manuel's. brother, Gonzalo ABELEND Martin,
is employed at the Brazilian Consulate in Miami,
Florida. Manuel was contracted to work for the
Brazilian Embassy in Havana, Cuba from 1 January 1933
’ through the first part of 1963.. He served as Vices, 7
Consul up until his departure from Cuba in 1963.
His wife-was also employed in the same Embassy.
Since 1963, ABELEND has been in Paris, France reportedly
serving as Consul in the Brazilian Embassy. According
to a reliable source, he has traveled widely throughout
Europe and Latin America. He is well educated, skillful
and has a‘great deal of experience in clandestine
Ne a ya

=pCT 2-4 1968

| HW 50953 DocId:


a

HW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 3



a )D—rC—C—MFSC<( chmhUC

~2-

activities as a result of his working in the
Brazilian Embassy in Havana. Source also
reported that ABELEND has a past history of
i : assisting personnel to escape prosecution by the
CASTRO regime. According to available information,
ABELEND has, in the past, provided asylum to anti-
CASTRO Cubans. _ABELEND is currently of interest to
our Agency.
4 _

b. Ana Maria ABELEND. From an article published
in the Cuban magazine Bohemia, 1 October 1965
edition, page 41, it appears that one Ana M. ABELEND
is a singer. The article mentions that her song is
an Argentine tango, “Sin Ti No Se Vivir".

ie
*c. Gonzalo ABELEND Martin, the brother to

Manuel ABELEND Martin, is an Attache in the Brazilian

Embassy in Miami, Florida. He was born in Havana, ~

Cuba on 1 April 1924. ..Our files indicate that from

1961 through 1963 Gonzalo ABELEND may have been a

fhe above is sensitive and restricted
ntiormation. Our files indicate that the Department
of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
may have additional information on ABELEND.

-

d. A search of our files failed to reveal any
pertinent identifiable information concerning fnu
JUVENAL and. Mario Inu,

: e. All available information concerning the other

individuals mentioned in the attached debriefing was

previously disseminated to the Bureau in CSCI-316/03651-68 -
: dated 13 September 1968, and CSCI-316/03970-68 dated

9 October 1968, Subject as above.

4. This information has been made available to your representative |

in Miami, Florida.

CSCI-316/03988-68

=—_—. 5
= we

eo SECRET

| NW 50953 Docld:32327743 Page 4



CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

TO : Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation >), :;
Attention: Mr. 8S. J. Papich
FROM : Deputy Director for Plans
ie iN 1, CEPT fe
SUBJECT: Libertad~ANTIGUA- Arrencibia he banchers

Suspect Cuban Intelligence Agent

1. Reference is made to Subject on whom considerable
information has been disseminated to the Bureau, the last from
this Agency being CSCI-316/03970-68 dated 9 October 1968.

2. Attached herewith is a copy of the 9 September 1968
debriefing of. Libertad ANTIGUA Arrencibia which was provided
by our Miami representative.

3. Information on the following individuals was compiled
from the files of this office and from the files of a group
of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information
collection:

a. Manuel ABELEND Martin was born in Havana,
Cuba on 17 April 1911. He is married to Elena
RODRIGUEZ Regulez, a Cuban citizen. His parents
were Juan ABELEND, a former Cuban Consul in Lisbon,
Portugal, and Concepcion MARTIN. Both parents are  _
deceased Manuel's brother, Gonzalo ABELEND Martin,
is employed at the Brazilian Consulate in Miami,
Florida. Manuel was contracted to work for the
Brazilian Embassy in Havana, Cuba from 1 January 1933
through the first part of 1963 He served as Vice’
Consul up until his departure from Cuba in 1963. ©
His wife was also employed in the same Embassy.
Since 1963, ABELEND has been in Paris, France reportedly
serving as Consul in the Brazilian Embassy. According
to a reliable source, he has traveled widely throughout
Europe and Latin America. He is well educated, skillful
and has a’ great deal of experience in clandestine

| NW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 5


activities as a result of his working in the
Brazilian Embassy in Havana. Seurce also

reported that ABELEND has a past history of
assisting personnel to escape prosecution by the
CASTRO regime. According to available information,
ABELEND has, in the past, provided asylum to anti-
CASTRO Cubans. ABELEND is currently of interest to
our Agency.

6. Ana Maria ABELEND. From an article published
in the Cuban magazine Bohemia, 1 October 1965
edition, page 41, it appears that one Ana M. ABELEND
is a sifger. The article mentions that her song is
an Argentine tango, "Sin ‘Ti No Se Vivir".

‘ce. Gonzalo ABELEND Martin, the brother to
Manuel ABELEND Martin, is an Attache in the Brazilian
Embassy in Miami, Florida. He was born in Havana,
Cuba on 1 April 1924. Our files indicate that from
1961 through 1963 Gonzalo ABELEND may have been a

pyre above is sensitive and restricted

informat + Our files indicate that the Department
of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service -
} may have additional information on ABELEND.

d. A search of our files failed to reveal any
pertinent identifiable information concerning fnu
JUVENAL and Mario Inu.

e. All available information concerning the other
individuals mentioned in the attached debriefing was
| previously disseminated to the Bureau in CSCI-316/03651-68 ~-
dated 13 September 1968, and CSCI-316/08970-68 dated
9 October 1968, Subject as above.

| 4. This information has been made available to your representative
in Miami, Florida. a

CSCI-316/03988-68

SECHE

| HW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 6

