4124-10221-10255) | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/11/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10221-10255

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —_105-72630-1ST NR 16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: OFFICE OF SECURITY

TITLE:

DATE: — 07/07/1959
*PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

PDL, CASTRO, FIDEL, DICTATORSHIP, ASSOC,
INDOCTRINATION ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1 10
“NW 50953 DocId:32340862 Page 1


CONPIDENE EAL :
i - James

Hee Q 3, - Liaiaon
NA :

109-80

Datos Selly 7» 1989

foe office of Bogue
\ Department of Sta
CIA HAS NO OBJ

{ Proms. John Hagar Hoover, Director — DECLA DN) ANTIOR,

Subjects CBEAN UOVERUEIOMARY ACETWETEES — AELEASE Gr CiA INFORIAATION
pee! CSEATAL SHCURELY = CUBA WN THIS BOSUMENT, $A06]07 Binh
MH 20-48 RS

\ Gbhis wilh confden infermetion orally fumniched to
Coptain Ro Be Malone of the Da ment of the Ale Forces
Lieutenant Junior Grade Fo 0. lolland of the Bepertuent of the
I avy; and Major Le Jo Hibner of the Peparteant of the Asay
i; g & Jones of this Zorean on July 2, 1999, end to Er,

t f£ the Contwal Intolligence Agency;and Mr. Po G. Lametty
OE separtment of State by Mire be Ho Martin of this Borean
on duly 35 195%.

Pedro Tis Daag Lang, former chief of the Cuban
Air Poreay on Suly. 2, 1959, advised our Minn Of¢ies he bad
departed Cubs in sockecy oA June 29, 1959, avtar ho hat been soverolyg
repr inaniod and ordered to perform no furshor duties as an Air Pores 5
officer Fidel, Cantse. revealed he ves weprinaniod because of 8
@ neua- release to radio, television ant moyspaper eatlets in‘ Cuba
in whieh he oxpressad osition to ey type a Gictatership

whether 1¢ be fragile, Hatista or DEAS if

Diag advised he As Gcaply concerned ever the placing
ef cemamists in key pesdtions in Cuben Government and the
armed forces by Fidel Castro and his brether, Raul Castro, He
nevealed that communist indoctrination eladses have boen held

for members of the Cuban Army and be ¢lainsd that be rofescd te
alicy such clesses to be sehoduled for the aie Force. Ne indleated
that many Cuban suldiers wome refusing = oe the classes.

9-¥ 90 ~ £8.

OBIGINAL COPY FT

. SK
oo CLASSIFIED BY 5t
i > Havana DECLASSIFY ON: £6X Vo 726 30—
\ —<i - Foreign Liaison Unit UFK) “Nor Reconnep
f : 199 JUL 1959
1
\

: - =- 109- (Anti-Fidel Castro, Activities)
: hy 4105-72630 (Pedro Luis Diad tans)
- Assistant’ Attorney General

Parsons

Mon FBS ef; -

Tamm

fi isoal eco

“6 PAGE, THER, —
Py MAIL ROOML® TELETYPE UNIT!

\

HW 50953 DocId:32340862 Page 2
