# 124-10291-10319

## Page 1

124-10291-10319

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10319

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117262-25, 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, PA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/18/1965

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SBE, REL, WINNER, MIRIAM FINKELMAN, AKA, PERSONAL

HISTORY AND BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC 2 MEMO, LHM

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId:32307179

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

RIPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY I9B2 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101 - 11.6

UNITED STATES GÓ

RAMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

10/6/65

FROM /AB/SAC, CINCINNATI (105- 3048) (C)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT:

MYRIAM FINKELMAN

IS - CUBA

(00: Cincinnati)

X WINER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWM

OTMERNISE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTEX COPT

Re Legat, Paris, letter to Bureau 8/18/65.

BRIAC/LETS

ткн 2-6-98

Enclosed for Bureau are nine copies of letterhead

memorandum with accompanying evaluation memo concerning

captioned matter.

It is classified Confidential because

of the source from which the information emanated.

The source is identified as Liaison Sectiond

i sleep

Incinnati is closing its case since subject is

in Spain, has never been to the U. S., and there is no

reason to believe she will come to this country within the

near future.

Labureau (enc.

(RM)

-Cincinnati

REM: blb

. (3)

ENCLOSU

5-30-9873

CLASSIFIED BY

DSCLA9200

5468 500/151

(JFK)

111/g0

Classified by

Declassify gh: 0

DADR SEI

REC- 43

105-11262

=25

1

OCT 7 1965

0013784/26/66

3:1 AN

Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAO

ONI/OSI/ACSI

By routing slip for info.

Dates= 10/15/665

NATE

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings

Plan

5010-108

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

RE:

MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y WINER

1800 SOUTH TREASURE

samenton mIAmi Beach, Brother -

PRiVE

same as above

SECRED

Francis Lyons.

ELA.

Sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Vel

Salomon Finkelman

Brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue,

Miami, Florida

Clara

Delaster.?

Julie Abramson

Sister - Miami, Florida

Niece - 57 State Road, Portland,

Maine

Iccording toLDr. Manuel Cortina, who was tormerly

cquainted with Winer in Santa Clara,, she is currentl

Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in

Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address,

however, he said she is believed to be living with an

unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas.

According to the knowledge of the source, they are not married.

The source could not furnish any additional information

concerning Winer's activities and stated there is no

indication she will leave Spain and come to the United States

POLICATI!

THIS IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI.

AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS. CONTENTS

ARE TO BE DISTRISUTED OUTSIDE THE

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED.

= 2 =

911-10311

HH 50953 Do0Id:32307179 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM'NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. PEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEGAT, PARIS (105-3551) (RUC)

MIRIAM FINKELMAN WINNER

IS - CUBA,

(00 - Cincinnati)

DATE: 8/18/65

SCOREY

PETERIN HERE IS UNTIN SENT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Sett

70-317

Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 6/29/65.

There are enclosed for the Bureau and Cincinnati

each one copy of a memorandum dated 8/9/65 pranarad hu the

Liaison Section

containing backgrouna intormation regarding

the fartioned

subject

It appears that the subject is presently residing

in Madrid and is employed as the Director of English Language

at the Mangold Institute in Madrid C(U)

The Consular Section has no record of an applica-

tion for a United States visa from the subject.

We have

requested that they advise us in the event a visa application

is received.

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATON A/DIOR,

RELEASE OF CIA IREDRMATION EXCOPY FOR brACKERS

IN THIS DOCUMENT

2-6-98

Bureau (Encs. - 2) ENOLOSURE

(1 - Liaison Section)

(1 Cincinnati, 105-3048)

1 - Parisk

NWP: eim

(5)

My go

classified by.

Declassity on: /DABR

5-30-48

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/beLI

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

TER) 1!

REC-54: 105-117262-224

DOW INJECT DIA'

14 AUG

88

19

MCT-455

* Exch

copy to.

Cincinnate.

3 38 61.82

by routong sho fol

El info

IX action

EC.

NAI

5H0031

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 1

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Consular Section

Liaison Section

9 August 1965

FROM:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SUBJECT:

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

Mirian Mintenan WINNER (OF WINER) RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCOPI BRACKENS

mK4: 2-6-98

According to

the subject stolsk

was born in Foland on 5. Februaty 1922; she became & Cuban citizen In 1945-

5-38-00

Subject arrived In Madrid, Spain, on 12 May 1963, bearing Cuban passport

#34059 1eaued on 24 July 1956. Her last isnown address in Cuba was Ronde 17,

(FER)

Apt. 18, Haban-

The folloving is Subject's educational history:

ALL TEN-I

A CONTAINED

1930 to 1936 - Primary school at Iudvipol, Poland

1938 to 1942 - High school-Instituto Martanno, Babana

1942 to 1947 - Unlversity of Hbana (degree in Philosophy and Letters)

1958

- University of Columbla, New York (sumer school studying

German-Iterature).

From 1956 to 1961, Subject was a professor of literature and languages

at the Central University in Sante Clara, Las Villas. She held the sane po-

sition from 1961 to 1962 at the Univerilty of Habans. She reportedly speaks.

English, German and Spanish fluently.

On arrival in Madrid In 1963, Subject Ileted the following members of

her Armediate family:

Ans

Winner

Sam Denton

Francisalyons

- mother - 1800 S. Treasure DrIve, Miami Beach.

Florida

- brother sane as above.

- sister

= niece

57. State Road, Portland, Maine.

According to Manuel. Cortins, who was formerly acquainted with Subject 1r

The Subject is curently the Director of English Langunge at the

Mangold Institute in Vadrid

He has no information concerning her present ad-

dress, however, he said subject is belleved to be living with an unidentifled

Cuban exile who vas & professor la las Villes:

to Source's knowledge,

they are

not married. Source has no additional information concerning Subject's cur-

rent activitles.

GROUP I

Excluded from

autonatie downgrading

and declassification

105-1170464 oper

107 ZONTONE.

Te: for genoes

51158 320229

Sb598

ENCLOSURE

CONFIDENTIAL

5d1-10310

HH 50953 DooId: 32307179 Page 5

---

