# 124-90135-10274

## Page 1

(124-90135-10274)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90135-10274

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82298-NR

- Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: SA

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

WH 50953

DocId: 32336879

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

A INFORMATION CONTAGIAD

HEREIN IS USOLASSIRLED

EXCEPT WALRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

GRET

8H/1558 gm

3/35/61

ECHESSENS

NO PRELASE IA PART

lead

TUTA DEME

Ox ssiner

510*

San

Antonio

Postassify on: OADR 10/24

New

York

Дол

Francieco

CLASSIFIED BY 566850 6CE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 2

Fron

Directory.

FOI (205-04985)

(571L) 12/18758

ake

CLASSHFIED BY 122 SUNP/DR UHT8

Lindaey Ling Feh

EXEMPL FROM GDS CATEGORK

I8 w.08

pyll

PARA!

4/15/98

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

poet

LTR, OTD.

separtnent of Alf oroe by toteey doted -/7/02 regueated

ShaG

BLOY

Son Anconto 11le 105-2118g

eram File

205-21029

017120 405-44295

bo interuleuad re captioned subjeco.

denoyo 19 a defected Coatro ofriolol who da boing inter

vicuca by Son Antonto

•Offices

de ace reportedly a commniat era unile

claining to be inuolucd in anti-cocoro actloittes with Militan Korgon,

Coodro leador and soldier of fortune recently exccuted by Castro

goveramente

plot do overthroio Castro.

no conal para a lantion Repudito at adira

Af Force anotcer infarsatton mas

scalved fron ou shos

ocoording

renayo nos comboosed che

captionad subject in late Auguety 1900g

in sando Maric,

Cho Maprese

Al? Foroe continued cubject currently residos in todrid

there he

nonages & pescauron altogeaty ounds by anosher unidensites dinaae.

uso reporteary has suppited clothing to 0 5, personies

ad Lajes Base

in bhe ABords:

Subjeot te one of soveral Chinese suspected of vaing

business venturas os cover for capionage of other fIlegal ac0iuities.

Al? Toroe aduiaed further thos omn furniahed Infornation thao ond

Theodor

Heine Mioners

a cusinas associate

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATION AND/OR,

115-8220

2 - 20куо

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

SOr RECORDND

• Madrid 110290/1

IN THIS DOCUMEN

1 * Faria

1205-22074)

EYCOPT FOR BRACKESDUPLICAT

2 - Mait

5-11-98

1 = Foreign Lialson

VERge 5OMAR 22 1961 F63 /

SECRETEK)

• 205-62298 (Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo)

NOTE FACE LOUR

59551

NH 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ласоа

zuch?

Foreigs 2,3

HN 50953

AS INFORMATTON CONTRAD

HEREIN IC HAGLACOLPIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SEE CARET

3/15/62

1115748gm

I MeSSE IN FULL

alrtel

Li MELEASE IN PARO

С ГОТА ПЕНА

Classified

1'08

SACE,

2

San Antonto

tassily on: OADR 14/29/53

New York

San Francieco

CLASSIFIED BY 548 SUO GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Direetor, #DI (105-94985)

(5712) 12/18758

LIVE Lindasey,

alco

CLASSIFIED BY 6922

DUNP/ DE

Lindsey

Ling Ych

EXEMPT FROM GOS CATEGORY

I8 - 01

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFIAITE

Deportnent

of Air Force by Lecter

• dated 3/2/02 requeates

PLoy

205-2202g

Guesertes enoyo, ban Anconto 141e 409-24203

stant file

Suftle 205-62298, be interuleued re captioned subjees.

Menoyo 1g

defected Castro effiolal who is being inter

u lewed

by son Antonto Offlee.

Le uns reportedly a compunist and shile

elaining so be involved in ants cogro ectinistes wien mehtan Lorgan,

Costro Leader and soluter of fortune recently enccuted by casure

governnents

pios to overthrow Castro,

aron cataly betrayed a Dominican Republie antialustro

Air Force adoleed Intornation uns

scuLued Tron GaA Chat

according

senoye has contacted

the

coptloned subject in late August, 490u, in santo Vario, the Arores,

Air force continued subject currently resides in ladrid were he

manages a restaurant allegedly oned by another unidentified Chinese

uho reportedly has supplied clothing to 1, S. personnel at tajes Base

in the Azored.

Subjeet la one of several Chinese suspected of waing

business ventures de cover for esplonage or other illegal cotloitles.

Air Vorce adulaed Jurther that OlA furnlahed inforsation thee on

The odor

Being Wiener»

& business essociate of the mojece,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRCADON AND/OR,

2 - Tokyo

RELEASE ON CIA INFORMATION

NOT RECORDED

2 - Dadrid

MAR:17 1961

• Parto (205-100v

2 = Bioni

EXCOPT FOR BRACKENSDUPLICATES VELLON

• * coreign blazeon

out froute through for vest 5-llerm

VERagE 50MAR 22° 1961763

SECRE

AFK)

- 105-82298 (Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo)

i NOTE FAGE DOUR

DocId: 32336879 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Airtel to SAC, San Antonio

Re

LING Lind sey, aka

(105-04985)

SECRET

arrested in the Azores December, 1958, on suspicion of espionager

As of september, 1960, Wiener, according to CIA, was reported to be

in Bermuda, where subject eventually intends to

go to explore

PARA I

possibility of establishing.o.restaurant.

DECLASSATED

plate.

Air Force hos requested Menoyo be questioned concerning

nature and extent of his association with subject and other Chinese

for any informatton unich may disclose espionage and/or other illegal

actiototes affecting Aly Force interests.

It was further requested

Menoyo's possible assoctation with Wiener also be explored. (2)/v

By letter dated 1/11/62, Legat, Faris, Furnished the

following information, clossifted

"Secrets

"concerning the subject

whịch uao received from

the French Foreian Intelligence and Counter-

espionage Service:

Subject was born 3/12/19 at Chehlong, Ching.

wife is su-shuet

Live no arrived in Burope by air from

New York on 12/13/60 and proceeded to Madrid, Spain.

New. York address:

as of October,

1960, was in care of lichel

Bernier, 514 West 110th Street,

New York Citye

Subject has established a clothing business in

where he wonks on Americon boses.

He is a repres

sentative of long Chong and Company, Custom Tallors,

Floor, otton Bulldinge

Lottingen Street, Hong Rong. The

subject 18 in close business relations with Samuel on Ming-chun

and both are menbers of a finoncial organization established

by the authorities of People's Bank at Shanghai for the purpose

of obbatning capital of Chinese living doroad and channeling

these funds back into chind.

The subject is known to have been in contact wich

Heine Teodor Wiener uno reportedly was arrested on a

seoret bose in the A20708.

The Hong Kong Jirn, Long Chong and Company,

réported to have estoblished a bant estadlishment in

San Froneisco during the early part of 1960 knoun as

Iangchong and Company, Bank of canton. 555 Montgomery streety

San Franciaço 22, Coltfornte

Although there is no apparent connections

it is interesting

to note that the none Michael Bernier, 514 West 110th Strecks

New York

City»

appears in the case of Normon A, Salyed (Bufile 65-66330)

saiyed clained that while working for Soutet intelligence in the

HH 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Airtel to SA0, Son Antonio

Rea

LING Lind sey, ake

(105+94985)

United States,

he was used as a spotter and in this capocity spotted

lichael Bernier, 514 Weat 110th Streets

New York City.

Tis informa-

tion was furnished by CIA which has conducted extensive and penetrating

interview of Saiyed abroads

The information furnished by satyed has

been diacounted becouse he not only is on admitted fraudulent chech

passery

but

is also

• self-admitted fobricator of intelligence infor

not 10ne

By letter dated 2/23/61, Legat, Madrids furnished the

following information recetved from ost, clossifted "Seoret,

wearing the notation special handing resuredenot relecana do

foreign nationals y

PARAS. 12,

DECLASSIFIED

Close monitorings of activities of certain minese

merchants in spain disclose they are sending Americon dollors

to Red China.

The Chinese merchant in Madrid, Lindsey Ling.

has admitted

this and it is known that san On of Boragoza hos

beer sending Americon dollars to Commuist Chink.

30(22)

Legat, Peris, letter 2/27/61 furnished Jollowing information

received fron French Noreign Intelligence and Counterespionage Seruice,

clossified "Secret":

Heinz

theodor Wiener, & confederate of the subject,

LING, viro left New York and arrived

in Burope on

12/13/60, traveled via "Iberia Air Lines. '(5)

Gan Antonio is instructod to prompoly

interulew Menoyo re

delay in letterhead menorandun.

soniand sieg us returned bur fare on suhai resiste without

San Francisco should promptly subnit any information

it has

obtained

re langchong and Company, Bank of Cantony 555 Montgomery

• Soree*

New Tork should promptly submit results of ite

inuestigation

regording lichee.

Bernier, oka, Michel Bernier, 514 West ll0th streets

New Tork City. (Ku)

wokyo pronpos

suomit results of inquirica re Ling

onong and conpany, bong konge

All offices should subnit results of investigation in letter-

head menorandun.

Furnish Bureau with nine coples,

SECRET

=30

HW 50953

DocId:32336879

Page 5

---

