(124-10114-10011 Dhar

-

2022 RELEASE UNDE!
zs

R THE
RT
ae op

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10114-10010
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-356

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: — LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1964
PAGES: 9
SUBJECT: WC, ASSISTANCE, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT. TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 09/24/1997 UPDATE DATE: 01/23/2001
STATUS — Redact ~
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
COMMENTS: INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH AND CIA

LTR TO LEG, PA

RW 50953 DocId:32156250 Page 1


OT DNAL FoR HO. 10, ~

net RGR : . care
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
y
Memorandum ae Be
OD ge LS HF,
f
pp f 705 ‘Director, FBI (62-109090) Seevex ATE 10-28-64

LO " “CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TC . .
Ady FROM : Legat, Paris (62-148) (P.) — DECLASSIFICATION ANDJOR,
: |

RELEASE OF CIA INFORR
: aN L

J
Ao seen: THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON
5 THE ASSASSINATION OF

ss PRESIDENT KENNEDY one Mees

x mer ef
wet — pw
hy

2 Ene loser Bureau is one copy of a seli-

8 explanatory! pris cS (Controlled American Source ar) )
Sk CIA)}memorandum along wW: a cppy of the letter in Spabish
mentioned in the memorandum. }

el
\ z The Parid.Office has referred this matter to
the High General Staff (HGS), Madrid, Spain, with a request
: for investigation by that service in’ an effort to locate
¥3 and identify the sender of the letter, and to interview him

‘ for any data he may be able to supply. The results of this
Ny
Oe Paris bie. gn) of-the HGS will be promptly reported when .
. available ay A
SY m Jee hep [|
-B enc. 2) ENS , ae al FEE AH
A 3 cen, (Bo: Section) “OSURE a a] Sey é ; |
i - Paris HW uu “hee ° fo i
HPW:HD a a ae 3 & PRS
4) Wap gr
ap hich wept ae 22 |
vege et (CEM of He f

-
Le atettobl tenes OL o fend: aw =
ee eG 3 E-6 Y RUE g .
8 12-1090 90 — BS |

elbod see

[pn 2uice at
: e Hoa OI ie Bee
Ho S39 I hx
Vince dpe Stee,
. ae aE, "\
y RE

HW 50953 DocId:32156250 Paye 2


7 * - . ev =
+ ge m
ose, ome ECRE T oe
EBs QOrmer Qo
¥ ) . -
\ : a
So
* caSp2290
‘ Cons fees
: Cia HAS tO OP TCTION 10
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr, Norman Philcox “PECLASS
. Legal Attache ACLERS
FROM. :fcas HB) Byes
“SUBJECT > : Crank Letter concerning. Warren’
Document
—

(Our: office in waartd eos sent usta copy of | the ateacked”

‘ Spanien -language letter addressed
to Spain, and signed by one Ant L1infe
first: paragraph that the author S)

to impart, After opening the second paragraph by saying that he
had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the
-author states:

. *
i . .
, "There (apparently Paris), hin the nome cr
: some American friends, I B04 hold of an authen-—
i ‘tie document about tne assa Sination in Dallas,
5 which they say was swiped from the Warren
Commission and which is certainly prejudicial
i for President Johnson. I have it on good
+ Le authority that they are currently trying to sell ’
. it to nd less than the Director of "Paris-Match." .
j Someone from the Embassy ofthe United Kingdom °
‘ in Paris is involved in the. matter,"

The author closes by suggesting that an \advertigement be inserted ae
i. in a Madrid newspaper it there be any in est in further details. :

18% whieh |
S. NeedlessL$] [|
or’-envelope, which "  ~
Ss, maaridjnasES)
t wé“may i
adrid would, CsgP i
t inform the a

; There arg no traces. rromWaaria on
f according to[CAS, Madria}, is almost certainl

to say there fs | ‘no return address on the lette’
i was mailed from Barceiona on 26 Séptember 1964 ~
i forwarded us a copy of the letter on the off a

have received similar allegations; in such case!
appreciate learning the-details:so that they mi

Embassy. It was also , Suggested that we show you this, letter, ~ —
: ET eee
2 aa Paris|| has Ro traces on Antilin PERIS | 7°)
: , ON

ts 5 ‘

y ‘¢ 2/05

fo ce: United States Secret sdrvige’
7 Attn: Mr. John Hanly SSaetonr

Fo . SECRET.

YL a. aa

RW 50353 Docld:32156250 Page 3

