124-10284-10165]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

6/8/2015

Agency information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10284-10165
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 109-12-210-1493
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO
TITLE:
DATE: 04/13/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS ;
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION ; Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32303653

Page 1


( FORMATION REF

MATION REF

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This _motertal contains Information, affecting \, Notional Defense of the United Stotes within the mear HAG SNO.NBJECTION ; }S.C. Secs.
Ww 793 ond 794, the transmission or revelation of which in ony manner to an unavthorized: person is prohibit

EGIEICATION ANDAOR,

Pia CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS Or _ €

RELEASE OF CUA int :
f : faidahaey hl lad IN THIS DOCUMENT. eee???

COUNTRY “CUBA/YUGOSLAVIA pateS- 15-45 By.

SUBJECT sossmnn hws
“YUGOSLAVIA

REPORT NO. TDCS~7/9 23,70) sed [ys

DATEOF = APRIL 1960
INFO. .

| PLACER © CURA, HANANA (8 APRIL 1960)

DATEDISTR. 13 APRIL 1960 7-30-47
\
IN 25451 i
|. DATE ACQ.

ON RRECEDENCE ROUTINE
WO agd
‘ REFERENCES
APPRAISAL

ane FIELD REPORT NO, _HEE~2677 2 ‘ p (Ea
THIS is UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. <j fa
wid

SOURCE OL F). Guha fan?

~ MAR LOYRERNANDS

) Fi

is OREIGN SERVICE, WILL.LEAVE FOR BELGRADE DURING APRIL 60 TO PURCHASE ARMS
Z| CAND EQUIPMENT FROM THE YUGOSLAV GOVT. RLBERTOFGAYOXCOSGAYA, AN OFFICER IN
Y : ae

“THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY, AIRFORCE WHO 1S CURRENTLY ASSIGNED TO VIENNA, HAS

!
BEEN ASSIGNED PROVISIONALLY TO BELCRADF TO HELP IN THIS MATTER. (SOURCE ae

&
aw
~~
N

= TW THE NEGOTIATIONS.

& N AMBASSADOR. IN BELGRADE AND A SUSPECTED i
x | COMMUNIST, IS OLD AND APPARENTLY NEEDS HELP. FERNANDEZ 1S A COMPETENT OFFICER
S| AND 1S NOT BELIEVED TO HAVE COMMUNIST LEANINGS. ) a
S|) 2. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI. HNN
bes aeee ieeel t Y
2 | ke do, ‘oft
canes | : copies made Og /OF-+2 220.
ee ew 10/3777 REC. ty gamed ctl
—Asedspernneye tad pylon ENO OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
See =H 7290 puree
ACR-E-T DSU! Tw eae

Auay7acst_ [NAVY | AiR | Jcs | Secoer [ WSA [Nic

usia | oci [ONE [oc

INFORMATION REPORTE
ye

6 3 APR 21 1960

\ oe sieeesceateec oc ve eee

HW 50953 DocId:32303653 Page 2
