# 124-10280-10081

## Page 1

124-10280-10081,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10081

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2526

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 07/07/1977

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, CORU, ASSOC, TRA, VENEZUELA, TERRORIST ACT

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/08/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC ADMIN PAGE

HH 50953 DocId: 32302141

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ROUTINE

Intelligence Information Cabre

WARNING NOTICE

336849

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NIMCE SWS NSA

TREAS NSC/S, WH/SITRA

PAGE 1 OFZ PAGES

Clossified by Recorded Reporting Offcer. Exempt from Genefol Declossification Sehedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

of Automatic Daclassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

CITE TDFIR DB-315/07940-77

NEDERAT COVETRIE

Pal, Treal Matters-Venezuela

DIST 7 JULY 1977

REPORT CLASS-S E OR E T-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE

INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS.

FBI ADM. MARINES ONLY

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/ CUBA

BECLASSINIEO BY 5668S10USR

0N. 12-18-96 (JEK)

DO1 : LATE JUNE 1977

6-G

SUBJECT: ATTEMPT BY CUBAN OFFICIALS IN CARACAS TO WARN

VENEZUEL AN

AUTHORITIES OF POSSIBLE ATTACKS BY CUBAN EXILES AGAINST

CUBAN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS IN VENEZUELA

ACQ

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 11 JULY 1997) FIELD NO, EVERS85

SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN-WITH CLOSE CONTACTS IN BUSINESS.

GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES. HE

USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

Сива

1, IN LATE JUNE 1977, NORBERTO XHERNANDE EXCURBELO

SAID THAT THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS INFORMATION THAT FRANKX

ASTRO

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

A MEMBER OF THE COORDINATED UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIEAT IO CORUS"

AND FRIEND OF ORLANDOX

B

O'S CH, WILL BRING

P

TO VENEZUELA FOR

SABOTAGE AND TERRORIST ACTIONS A GAINSTREGGA

OFFIALS AND ORGANI,

DENY 068-12

-228.252%

DETECTED N

ZATIONS IN VENEZUELA, ON 14 JUNE CASTRO HAD

CURACAO, HE DEPARTED FOR GRAND CAYMAN ISLAND ABOARD

CES SNHL 18 1977

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

401- US A - G226-A.

1113177 56 JuL281977

DECLASSIECATION ANU/OF

SECRET

IN THIS DO CIENT CAN ON SER

cc to mm by 0-7 into spa/se

KP 1-2798 SIDIKSK

2-21-48°

NH 50953 DocId: 32302114 Page 2

---

## Page 3

280-0081

copies made

Ior roview at FBIHQ by.

IN 336849

RECEIVED

WARNING NOTICE GENCE DIV.

TDFIR DB-315/07940-77

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DIS$EMINATICAN MAND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(clanst/icatton)

.:",

2, HERNANDEZ SAID THAT "OUR OWN SPEGIAL GROUP" IN CUBA WHICH

MONITORS CORU ACTIVITIES HAS REPORTED THAT CASTRO AND ANTONIO

ECLAN, WHO HAS ACCESS TO EXPLOSIVES IN VENEZUELA, ARE ALREADY

IN VENEZUELA AND ARE PREPARING TO CARRY OUT SABOTAGE AND TERRORIST

ACTIONS. THIS SPECIAL GROUP OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT BELIEVES THAT

CASTRO AND VECIANA WILL ACT TOGETHER.

c

•3. HERNANDEZ ALSO

. SAID THAT THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT WAS TOLD BY

UIS. STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS ABOUT VECIANA'S PRESENCE IN VENEZUELA

AS THEY BELIEVE THAT HE IS A MEMBER OF CORU ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN

CORU ACTIVITIES, ACCORDING TO HERNANDEZ, THE U.S, OFFICIALS

BELIEVE VECIANA IS WAITING FOR SOMEONE TO HELP HIM CARRY OUT

TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA.

4, FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS -

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR, CONSULTANTS.

GLASSIFTED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.

LINg

SECRE

HH 50953 DooId: 32302144 Page

3

---

