124-10364-10018)

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 il Hee

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10364-10018

HQ

62-117290-C4-73

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
HQ
AG

01/09/1976
2

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT ADMIN FOLDER, HOSTY,
JAMES P., LHO, POST-RP, NOTE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

10/13/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32318732 Page 1


: 2°Mr. J, A. Mintz

(i © Me. J. B. Hotis)
SECRET a

Mr. Ho N. -fassett_
the a¢toracy Generel

- Mr. W. R. Wennal

Gigecter, Far

WA PRTELLAS

BLACT OC SATTTBE
CH ACTIVITIES (SEC)

seference. is ace to SSC letter dated Hevembser 26,
L973, conteiaing a-request for eccess to pertinent FEL meterlale.

Enclosed herewith is the original of « mererendua
fex your eporoval ead forwarding te the SSC ta respemie to
items i, 11, 1%, 16s emd 6b, 35, anc 46, which completes
Our Tesponee te this request.

| ae Ta wegerd tc Ttem lée, mo additional meteriz2 is
eveilable ether then thet meterirl thet hee been previously

« Hewevet, is regerd te 14b, enclosed iad addaedoael
disclosiag the Fal‘s Inspection Pivicion Iacuiry
the clreumsteaces surreuncdiag the recelst and deseructica
note lefe by Lee Harwey -eweld et the Belles offies,
uiteriel hes been obtelacd subsequent te Ccteber 1, 1975,
a3 “Lil sles be mode eveileble to the 38C Staff for eecess.
This wAteriel hes mot been previowsly Garnished te you,

Bre Lee)

a

2B
“z
3

é cory of this memereadum ic being furnished for
your vecerds,:

CIA HAS BO

saclesures (6) _ RS.

Eel 6S9$

i Loe Sepaty attex:
i Abteat ion:

Generel

heel E. Sheheen, Jr.
eizl Coungel fer
Tatellicvesce Coxréiiaction

nDS:eks
(11)

HW 50953 Docid:32318732 Page 2


a}

qanose

SECRET

The Attorey General

HOTE:
SSC letter of 11/2€/75, contained 28 requests for
access, We previously have submitted 4 FBI memoranda dated
12/8/75, 12/18/75, 1/6/76, and 1/7/76, gesponding to these
requests. ‘This memorandum responds to the remsining Items

thet have been outstanding and which are gentioned ia this
memorendum, It is pointed out that in regard to Item 15,
Eduardo Guevare is the subject of New Orleans file 124-905,
Bureau file 105-92106, which file was opened on 3/18/66,

nd closed by New Orleans letter to the au, 8/26/66,

n the basis thst Guevara was(a CIA contact jand had been & Cs
contact of that Agency sinee iseo] Im regard to 1éb, this

been coordinated vith Inspector J. Allison Conely of the

Inspection Division. He edvised that the Attorney General

wes not in receipt of enclosed Item 16b, which is metericl
disclosing the Inspection Division's additional inquiries.

He recommended thet this mtericl be delivered te the

Attormey General. A copy of this request is attached for
informstion to the yellow of this communication.

HW 50953 DocId:32318732 Page 3

