/124-10369-10049] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10369-10049

HQ

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-H9

COMMENTS :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
* PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Document Information

FBI

USSS

12/19/1969
289

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME XXI

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret
1B; 1C; 4
Redact
03/20/1999
e

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

Date:

4/15/201

INC FOLDER, LIST, MEMO, A/T, LET, R/S, S/S, RAPSHEET, TTY, INSERT, FD-302, ENV,

TABS, NOTE, DRAFT MEMO, COURT ORDER, NEWS RELEASE

2

v9.1
HW 50953 DocIld:32319415

31

Page 1


SECRET, -

SAC, New York 665-2542) 11/6/69

TI9
Birector, FBI (€5-60127)

IHD: é |
&y- Mr. Goble

MICHAEL JELIBAVCIC, aka 2+ Mr. MoWiliians

ESP «~ R

rence is made to Department of State telegram
ted 10/28/o8 tee fron Embassy Moscey, to State Headquarters
-D)fyhich reported subject was ordered by the Soviets on 10/29/60
GA to leave the UBBR4 Copies of referenced telegran vere
() previously turnt to Hew York and Chicago.

be York should remain igs te xeturn of subject
to the ted States for the purposes of iutery:
infoxmation on him previously furnished by “
im wing during aay forthcoming that the. Soriets
have in the past expelled indivi : from the USER to cover
the fact ne im a developed KGB a; Subject should also
be queationed concerning hin nane phone bet:

an the addreas book of lee Harvey Oswald,

mctiet ec acne

American Express representative in Moscow. | We are desirous of
interviewing s
against him.

of subject in

N
= LMsas q@ ~ Bake ‘
| 3 ‘NOTE: ma nee |
7 Sammy, Soviet defector-in\ Bee Ata em ‘the 7th |
Department, KGB, had been mofinting % SPAETUH Meabiiat: theysubject,

ject concerning what he knows about the operation

‘It should be noted that<Atsen@Mippel, predecessor

loscow, was recruited | r 2. BEB and of admitted Same.
+

iPr

{SEE REVERSE ©
” ) SIDE FOR
\ QLASSLFECATION
ACTION

abil avi Ne
pe ume
S0OBS5¢
FA, 4:

EaeeeRED

| 50953 Doclda:32319415 Page 2


5601 Potomac Avenue, N.W.
es pie Washington, D.€. 20016

De ela hOal Os SAMIR” Jury 25, 1969

IT SSL ead Gle- e/a) S20. ‘hein 2 Bes. :
STert Deer (nfo '5 BeerwsssFiAd IEWED Sy oy i

Gta Sip CPR on _1elsshsy BY FBVJFK TASK FORCE
CBamKeereD Who CLASSIFIED BOP CN

UPGeadss te Sceer Poe. +>) : i

Honorable William P. Rogers

Secretary of State

Washington, D.C.

Ector, men
SNE WN PULL
ASE IN PART

EP Dene

Dear Mr. Secretary:

In winding up my affairs at the Department of State, there is a pend—
ing matter which I. believe merits your attention.

Lee Harvey Oswald, the presumed assassin of President Kennedy, was
: alledgedly present at-a party given by a Mexican communist sympathizer
and attended by the Cuban Consul, a veteran intelligence.officer, when
he was in Mexico shortly before the assassination. There are allega-
tions that the Mexican-Government may have been aware of Oswald's
présence at that. party and that the Cuban Government may have tried to
intimidate others who saw him there. : 7

’ A careful investigation of these allegations could perhaps explain

> them away. Until then, however, their public disclosure ‘could reopen
the debate about the true nature of the Kennedy assassination and
damage the credibility of the Warren Report.

» =

< Since I was the Embassy officer in Mexico who acquired’ this intelli-

a gence information, I feel a responsibility for seeing it through to
2

@its final evaluation. Accordingly, I have prepared a memorandum
$ (enclosed) explaining this information and its initial assessment, keyed
to three memoranda of conversations with my Mexican informant.

I believe you would want to consider carefully whether to let well
enough alone in this case, or whether the risks attending possible

public disclosure of these allegations make further investigation
warranteds 5 :
| . . Respectfully,
‘ ] it : q : Gas lft ee
% } Charles William Thomas
H foe Ces
H _ Enclosure: era pueeanneTE eT Taeaiareneeerare

Memorandum and four attachments.

HW 50953 DocId:32319415 Page 3


CIN HAS 1 CRUECTION TO

July 25, 1969
b ;

0 ye)
ATION AS 547217726?
i MEMORANDUM 7

ekds eelad

“WE Tha Coctancidi Game ebb ft

SUBJECT: “Investigation of Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico

1. While serving as Political Officer in the U:S. Embassy in Mexico
:City from 1964 to 1967, I became quite friendly with the Mexican play-
jvight, Elena Garro de Paz. An intellégent, witty, and outspoken woman,
{ I found her a very useful if sometimes biased source of political gossip
i and personal history. on significant Mexican personalities. She introduced
| my wife and me to many important people in Mexico. She was also.parti-
cularly knowledgeable about agrarian affairs. A biographic report that
I prepared on her on May 3, 1966 is attached (Tab A). .

2. On one occasion, Miss Garro inadvertently mentioned to me that she
had been at a party with Lee Harvey Oswald and two American companions
when Oswald was in Mexico just before the Kennedy assassination. The
party had been at the home.of her cousin, Ruben Duran. © The memorandum
of that conversation, dated December 10, 1965, is attached (Tab B). I
had not read the Warren Report, but I assumed that if Oswald had been
to such a party in Mexico, it would have been well known to the Embassy,
I also knew Miss Garro to be something of a professional anti-communist
who tended to see a communist plot. behind any untoward political event.
However, the episode about her being escortéd into hiding’ at an obscure
© hotel intrigued me. Accordingly, I decided to report the matter in
writing. I gave the memorandum of conversation limited distribution
within the Embassy, and did not send dny copies to Washington.

3. A few days later I was called to the office of Mr. Winston Scott,
who headed the Embassy's Political Research Section (CIA). ‘Also present
: was Mr. Nathan Ferris, the Embassy's Legal Attache (FBI). They had noted
with interest my December 10 memorandum of conversation. They pointed
out that there had been a great many rumors about Oswald at the time of |
the assassination and that some could not be verified and others had |
proved false. They asked me, however, to try and get a more detailed
replay of Miss Garro's story. Mr. Scott made clear that the FBI had full |
responsibility for any further investigations of the Oswald case! ‘
4. In a memorandum of conversation dated December 25, 1965 (Tab C), I
provided a much more detailed and accurate restatement of Miss Garro'’s
alleged encounter with.Oswald and subsequent developments. Certain errors
in my original presentation were corrected. Miss Garro guessed that the
date of the party at her cousin's house was’ in early September, 1963. She
admitted that she had gone to the Embassy to report briefly about this matter
on an earlier occasion.

NW 50953 Docld:32319415 Page 4


(CONFIDENTIAL : 3

Durans after the assassination about a party which Oswald had reportedly |
attended, but that the transcript of the interrogation was entirely
unsatisfactory by normal investigatory standards. Furthermore, the party
inquired. about was not theone at. Ruben Duran's house, reported by . Renee
Elena Garro, but at an entirely: different place. This transcript may

well be the source of Mr.: Ferris’ belief that Elena Garro's ‘story: ned ‘been -
checked out and found to be untrue.

10. It would appear that whereas. the ‘FBI has discounted the Elena Garro:
allegations, the CIA is still considerably disturbed by them. The CIA

may not have pressed for-further investigation, however, for a number of
reasons: 1) considering the sensitive overlap and subtle competition
between two intelligence collecting agencies, it had to yield to the

FBI's clear jurisdiction;:\2) there are obvious complications in conducting
such an investigation in a»foreign country; 3) there is_a close and
delicate relationship between the CIA Station Chief andfthe

and 4) some of the people GSD

appearing in the Elena:Garro scenario may weil be agents of the CIA. Under
the circumstances it:is unlikely ‘that:any further investigation of this
matter. will ever take Place unless: itis ordered by a Bae official in
Washington. .

ll. If all the allegations in the attached memoranda were true, they
would not, in themselves,:prove ‘that there was a conspiracy to assassinate
President Kennedy. However, if they were ever made public, those who
have tried to discredit the Warren Report could have a field day in
speculating about their implications. The credibility of the Warren Report
would be damaged'all the more-if it were learned that these allegations
were known and never adequately: rohan aae by the competent’ American
authorities. i

12. Reference is made eeata to.the piographic report (Tab A) on Elena
Garro. She is hardly an ordinary or average person.’ Her strengths and
weaknesses become exaggerated: precisely because she is not. It would

be easy and convenient to sweep this matter under the rug by claiming

that Miss Garro is an unreliable informant since she is emotional, E
opinionated, and "artistic." I have been affected at times by that
temptation, myself. No American official, however, knows her better than
Ido. On the basis of the facts that I have presented, I believe that,
on balance, the matter warrants further investigation.

13. Finally, the record should show that a representative of a major -
American publication has at least some knowledge of

Charles William Thomas
July. 25, 1969

50953 Doclda:32319415 Page 5


NW'50953 DecTd:32319415 Page 6


Al Ale? 2b

0953 Docld:32319415 Page 7


DIRECTOR, PBI 7/15/68

‘Rtn inp
UEREY

te f
SAMUEL ?, BERZON »ehe (J
MISCSLL/ NOUS + INFOSHATION CONCERNING; —-GUAS

TS - ISReEL 7 DECLASSIFY Cal
sea a)
8ebFOlet to Bureau dated 1/7/63, under first

character abeve, no copy H?, which enclosed a copy of a

letter dated 12/8/62, from subject to INS and in which he
indicated he had attended the U.S. Naval ceademy, ° copy
of subject's Letter is enclosed for the inforration of MP,

SAC, VRC (6206-19290)

For the additional inforration of the Burecu and - J
EF, on 7/10/69,(¥PF 56%-s* reported|that S’MUNL ¥. BERZON (sp), US
contacted the Esbessy of Israel {¥ror Minnesote, jexect C: sy
ocation not_obtained by inforrant, at which time he

inquired of [iss PNINA iGLLéck, a secretary at the Embassy, C5)
as to the status of < letter he had written to the Embassy

a few weeks ago. PGLL/OKX\asked as to the neture of the

contents of the letter did subject said he did not cara

to discuss its contents over the telephone. Hovever, he

did state he has quite « militery beekgrou nm the O.8.: mi
has not been able to get clesrance to servelin the Isrzeli c 5
Uefense Forces, |singe he right lese his citizenship, but 4
thought (the Israelis \ight find sorething suitable for hin. C %—
He mentioned that his letter slso contcins Smany things of

= political nature’, which he thought (the Israelis \should Cs)
know sbout; that he had been(to tha Frbessy |e couple of ne
yeers ago; that he could not go(to Israel Jthen and that he C$
could not reveal the reason vhy, but that he told <11 about

this in the letter.

Secording to informant {POLL*Cz) did not give subject cs
em affirmetive anawer as to the status of his letter, or as
toe what ection would be taken in the matter.

(ey) - EBureg

CL -(105-10820) C@pessy or rsecen)) CSD
% 2 - Minneapolis (Ene. 1) (21)
2 - TKO :
(1 -(405-524) Caprese oF ter-ety) G)

ener ae
é i _.

HW 50953 DocId:32319415 Page 8


UFG 62-0-19290

If information from(F 568-SA Us disseminated, s3
it should be classified "Secret - No Foreign Dissemination’
and should be suitably paraphresed, since it contains ral
informstion furnisked by[e sensitive source in the Israeli C
field.| In the event iP prepares e corrunication which ray
subsequently be disseminated and which includes inforration.
from(F 568+5*,) the cover commumication should explicitly cs}
State that the LH, ot report, contains inforration which
should be designated (scopi', | The Bureau will stamp the CS)
document prior to disserination,

Since there is no indicetion that subject is presently
in the ¢rred Services, it being noted that in his letter to
ills, above, he furnished his erployrent as Vitre Laboratories,
Silver Spring, Ud., and the fect that his exeet lecation is
unknown, ne recovmendstion is being made to further identify
Subject. However, MP should search its indices on subject.
end furnish the Bureau and YFO the results thereof, It is
further requested that 4? designate a copy of its re y to
the Bureau end UFO files on (the Embassy of tsracbye)

HW 50953 DocId:32319415 Page 9
