# 124-90135-10265

## Page 1

124-90135-10265

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

. 6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90135-10265

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-82298-100

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: USAF

FROM:

USAF

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/07/1961

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

LET

v9.1

HH 50953

17

DocId: 32336870

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SERI

DEPARTMENT

R FORCI

, iEADQUARTERS

UNITED

ED ST

ATES AIR FÜT

WAS

JINGTOI

5,D.C.

REPLY TO

ATTN OF:

AFISI-6A

(SUBECT: (U) BlOy Gutierrez Menoyo

9/15798 qu

BLONDE IN FULL

HELEASE IN PART

то: Honorable J. Edgar Hoover

TOTAL DENIAL

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

U. So Department of Justice

Washington 25, D. Co

Dear Sir

7 MAR 1961

Received from

MAR 9

1961

OSI

JJỐC

пре

Reference is made to your report,

subject as above, #105-2118, dated

17 February 1961, which reflected that Subject was located at the Alien

Detention Facility, McAllen, Texas.

ALL FIR FORCE (OST) INFO

9/15/88

INFO

2. Recently, CIA advised this Headquarters that, according to

Subject had contacted one Lindsey Ling, aka: Ling

Lind Sey, DPOB: 12 March 1919, in Chekiang, China, in late August 1960

in Santa Maria, the Azores. Ling currently resides in Madrid where he

DEUASSIFIEDPER THEIR

manages a restaurant allegedly owned by another unidentified Chinese wh

reportedly has supplied clothing to US personnel at Lajes Base in the:

Azores. Ling is one of several Chinese subjects who are suspected of

using their business ventures as a cover for espionage or other illegal

961

activities. The CIA report also reflects that one Theodor Heinz Wiener,

who had represented the clothing firm in the Azores, was reportedly

arrested there in December 1958 on suspicion of espionage,.

and was, as

of September 1960, reportedly in Bermuda, where Ling was planning to go

to determine the feasibility of establishing another restaurant.

MAR

Jft 3.: It is requested that Subject be questioned concerning the nature and

extent of his association with Ling and other Chinese, and that this

office be advised of any information which may reflect espionage or

other illegal activities affecting USAF interests.

His possible associ-

ation with Wiener also should be explored.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Sincerely

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

"F: L. WELCH

I THIS DONE KI

P54198

Asst Chief, Counterintelligence, Division id

REC: 240 105-8-32.98-10

Directorate of Special. Investigations

UNIECORDED COPY FILED

The Inspector General ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

20 MAR TO: 1961.

DATE

TON A MACI GAT

MAR

17.1961

JFKS

1.0.

MAR 23 1961

SECRET

105-F2208

HN 50953

Doc1d:32336870

Page 2

---

