124-90062-10004] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/5/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90062-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-102687-5

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE :

DATE: — 10/23/1961
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
MARVIN KANTOR
WILLIAM STEINSMITH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: = MEMO

vol ‘ 2

i
i
1
| RW 50953 Docld:32327306 Page 1


OPTIONAL FORM NO. 19,

- UNIFED -STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

“to: DIRECTOR, FBI

nom ~ “Sac, NEW YORK (205%0887)

@
SUBJECT: WILLIAM STEINSMITH
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TOTS - CUBA
DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR, (00: BUREAU)
YELEASE GF CIA INFORMATION
AN THIS DOCUMENT. K od a for the Bureau are 11 copies of a letterhead
Kee memorandum, with 2 copies for Legat, London, dated and captioned t
b rr leers as above. Also enclosed are an equal number of an informant
YZ evaluation memorandgm@.

ax (P71 ae

on this 4: He Re letters from Legat. London, to the Bureau dated
8/31" and 9/27/61, and Bulet to New. York dated 9/13/61 in oe
matter, “3 : 4

Administrative : .

The letterhead memorandum marked "Secret" inasmuch
as the original information furnished(by CIA in this matteP[was
so classified. :

The indices of the NYO contain no information identifiable
with WILLIAM STEINSMITH, his father, DAVID, or mother, DOTTIE.

Inasmuch as the subject is reportedly remaining
in Copenhagen, the NYO does not eae yt any further investigation
ee _in-this matter at this time. 1-15-98

Informants

i OW
NY T-llis information furnished by CIA ao t! i)
in letter dated 8/23/61, under caption, "MARVIN KANTOR

NY T-2%is 61D STEIN ‘Sho tu furnished
to Legat, London, on 8/22 and Mit, = ie |
4 T-3 is JAMES P, PLACE (by request), Dean-Of Students,

City Collegian College gf the City of New York, to IC GEORGE P.

ULLRICH on 10g)
Brcabtticigfamis ee ® Lee —S- |

1-New York (105-5d

Hae Wr «Hendy, .§ B20CT 25 1961
(3) Copy to: CIA/State /s8 bere

ONT/OSI /G-2

5% ‘NOV 2 YZ el SECREL os,

|
{NW 50953 Docld:32327306 Page 2
