ION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

073 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATI

Fi SSAS: ON S :

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10280-10073
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2434

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 10/21/1976

PAGES: 4
SUBJECT: OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ASSOC, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA
AIRLINER
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL ay NE
CLASSIFICATION: baad CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW_DATE: — 06/08/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS — Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32302136 Page 1


IN-075224
PAGE 1 OF4 idea

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR JCS/MC (DJA}CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SOO NIO CRS

\ (SY/I/PIB) © SS/ID
Crorezarions” ipa by aed tren, ie, camo rn, Sea rsigen Seeds of 0. 1481 Exemption
: FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
Uy: CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
y THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
§ SECRET . CITE TOFIRDB-315/10534~76
a tsetse
* ae CB Lae ivers- DIST 21 OCTOBER 1976
Veare weft Llu) -
: REPORT CLASS S E GR E TeWARNING NOT ICE == SENSI *EVE INTELLIGENCE

3 SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEDe*NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIQNALS@e
NOT RELEAS ABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSUL TANT Se~

eseee LeTe

& DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY
ae CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

' ORIGINATOR. _ DEG ASSIFICATION AND/OR, RES monltivgs 7 94-44
Cu IRFORMATION
AQOOU TRY! VENE UBL A/ CU om Ts oC rf y ORMATION Peatied by SPE MAG [Sie

assify . OADR VE

; Leo ec
bo 1 ‘ 16 OCTOBER 1976 yt Q4- val aD us VALGW TK)

SUBJECT COMMENTS BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO ae toy ON
INTENTIONS TOWARD THOSE IMPLICATED IN #HE BOMBING OF EE

AMIE

y A CUBANA AIRLINER — 7)
Gree VENEZUELA, CARACAS (19 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. Garcfier

Bequece: k VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE CONTACTS IW BUSINESS,

Ags

gak GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC CIRLES. HIS

RON

YS rr RELL ABILITY HAS NOT GEEN ee en

YS

oH ST

is

CORBEL 6} CUB AN Ameen eee To VENEZUE AID THAS im
ame
GO VE RN BENT HOLDS’ ¢UB.AN EXILE LEADER Pe fi fiefs’ H AND ¥

Keosana) CARRI Les» af ae Be 9 1S NOW
RE OG 40. ip eZ dS' nel
A VENEZUELAN CITIZENT™ Seto RESPONSIBLE FORTHE “6 OCTOBER

Vere2uela
“BOMBING OF A CUB-ANATRTREINER « FURTHERMORE, HERNANDEZ SAID fiaHOY 2 1876

_ 56Nov..6 wre Oo

1, ON 16 ocroser {976 NOR senile 7 2 Con DE Z (,- it “ |
‘5
€ CUBAN i

SECRET a ee |

HW 50953 DocId:32302136 Page 2


Seer ceaeee vee - 210-0073

ef IN 075224
TOFIR DB-315/10534-76

WARNING NOTICE:
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENTE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

Ne
: FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

aT yer te
THE CUBAN GOVERNMENTINTENDS To EXECUTE BOSCH AND POSADAs EITHER
WITH OR WITHOUT DUE PROCESS oF THE LAW, i
2, DESPITE HIS YEARS IN EXILE, BOSCH IS CONSIDEREB By
THE CUBAN GOVERNNENT TO BE A CUBAN CITIZEN, HERNANDEZ SAID»
AND THE CUBANS WILL REQUEST THAT HE BE TURNED OVER TO THEM
FOR PROSECUTION, IN THE a OF POSADA, HE RN AN DE SAID THAT
THE’ .CUBAN GOVERNMENT WILL REQUEST THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT a
TO REVOKE HIS VENEZUELAN CIT] ZENSHIP AND THEN, TURN HIM oveR ae
TO CUBAN AUTHORITIES, iF THEY WERE ‘TURNED OVER tHROUGH
LEGAL MEANS, HERNANDEZ SAID THAT BOTH BOSCH AND POSADA WOULD RE
GIVEN A QUICK TRIAL IN CUBA AND THEN EXECUTED WITHIN THREE Hours.
SHOULD THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT BE UNABLE TO GAIN POSSESSION oF
“BOSCH AND POSADA THROUGH ies MEANS, THE CUBANS WILL TAKE Steps

TO LIGUIDATE BOTH.
(SOURCE COMMENT: HERNANDEZ DID NOT INDICATE WHEPHER EITHER

BOSCH OR POSADA WOULD BE RETURNED To CUBA FOR TRIAL IF ACCESS eereaai

TO. THEM WAS OBTAINED EXTRA“OFFICIALLY,) TN ANY CASE: HE RN AN ne z
SAID+ THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED THAT BOSCH AND POSADA
MUST DIE FOR THEIR PART IN THE? CUBANA DISASTER, (FIELD
COMMENT: A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY REPORTED THAT

SECRET -

HW 50953 DocId:32302136 Page 3

