# 124-10280-10075

## Page 1

124-10280-10075

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10280-10075

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2439

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

IO:

TITLE:

DATE: 10/19/1976

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ASSOC, TRA, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA

AIRLINER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DooId: 32302138

Page 1

---

## Page 2

8-13

SECRET (When Filled In)

MTELLIGENC

ST CENTRAL

KIN HATH CLI

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

IN

ROUTINE

073859

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR SCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS PAGET OFE PAGES

Classified by

Genoral Declassification Schedule el E.d. 1165 Exemption.

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Category 58

(1), (21. Impossible to Determine

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

CITE TOARDB-315/10454-76

politica / matters- Venezuela

DIST

19 OCTOBER 1976

REPORT

GLASS SEC

RE T WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED= NOT RELEASABLE FOR FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

MARIEN

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA

LL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINI

HEREIN IS LINCLASSIEIED

ARE

DECLASSIFIED

DATE.7-8194BYSpRmACHleSE

DOI: : MID-OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT: VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ATTEMPTS TO TIE

THE SOCIAL

CHRISTIAN PARTY TO INDIVIDUALS LINKED TO THE BOMBING

OF A CUBANA AIRLINER

ACQ:

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (16 OCTOBER

SOURCE: SEE BELOW.

ST-108 M5

SUMMARY: OFFICIALS OF THE DIRECTORATE

169-12-228-243

THE SERVICES OF

§INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP) HAVE BEEN ORDERED

BINVESTIGATE THE VENEZUELAN CONNECTIONS TO THE & DETOBER ISY I STEA

CUBANA AIRLINER. UNOFIFICIALLY, HOWEVER @ TSTP

OFFICERS HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO BUILD A CASE LINKING COPE! TO

THOSE INDIVIDUALS IMPLICATED IN THE INCIDENT. ON THE OTHER

HAND, DISIP OFFICERS FEAR THAT INFORMATION LINKING SOME JISIP

OFFICIALS TO CUBAN EXILE ORLANDO BOSCH MIGHT BECOME PUBLIC

KNOWLEDGE, EMBARRASSING THE GOVERNMENT AND FURTHER TAINTING

END OF SUMMARY.

MAR 1.7

"Ste

109-12-228

HE DEE

1 1910

SECRET

TO

SID/ILSR

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION

•STON AN

CIA MINORA

DECLASSIGIC

RELEASE OF

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Extept

1-27-98

Kp

•34

NH 50953 DocId: 32302138 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FORM

9-75

3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

280-10075

RECEIVED

At RAL INYESTIGATIVE

IN 073859

4 37 PM 376

NGU

RECEIVED

TDFIR DB-315/10454-76

WARNING NOTICE

¡TENDENCE MSTIEEOUACES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGEZ OF b PAGES

SECRET

45 tH '76

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

1, SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2-38 A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

•EMPLOYEE WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS

ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN

OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

12, WHILE OFFICIALS OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP, HAVE RECEIVED OFFICIAL

INSTRUCTIONS TO CARRY OUT A COMPLETE INVESTIGATION OF ALL

VENEZUELANS CONNECTED WITH THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A

CUBANA AIRLINER, UNOFFIGIALLY DISIP OFFICERS HAVE BEEN ORDERED

TO CONCENTRATE THEIR INVESTIGATION ON MEMBERS OF THE SOCIAL

CHRISTIAN PARTY SCOPELD, DISIP OFFICIALS, THEREFORE, HAVE

DRAWN UP A LIST OF LOW TO MEDIUM-LEVEL OFFICIALS OF COPEL Jen

WHOM DISIP INTENDS TO TIE TOLUISI

POS A DA. A FORMER DISP

OFFICER WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH

THE BOMBING, AS CURRENTLY PLANNED, DISIP WILL BEGIN PICKING

UP THESE COPE! LEADERS FOR QUESTIONING DURING THE WEEK OF.

18. OCTOBER, (SOURCE COMMENT: ALTHOUGH POSADA DOES HAVE COPE!

CONNECTIONS, MOST DISIP OFFICERS DO NOT BELIEVE THAT COPEI.

PLÀYED A ROLE IN POSADA'S ANTI-CUBAN ACTIVITIES, RATHER THEY

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32302138 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Б05%

3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

IN 073859-

TDFIRD B- 315/10454-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF6 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

BELIEVE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS ATTEMPTING TO IMPLICATE COPEI

FOR POLITICAL REASONS,)

3, AT THE SAME TIME THAT IT IS WORKING ON ITS CASE

AGAINST COPEIA DISIP OFFICIALS ARE CONCERNED THAT INFORMATION

CONNECTING DISIP OFFIGIALS AND CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDe Cuba

XBOS CHA WILL BECOME PUBLIC, SUCH REVELATIONS, DISIP OFFICERS

BELTEVE WOULD BE HIGHLY EMBARRASSSING TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRESAXO ERE E AMEDISASTEROUS FOR DISIP,

WHICH HAS RECENTLY BEEN HURT

"BY CHARGES OF MISTREATING PRISONERS

ACCUSED

..OF BEING INVOLVED IN THE KIDNAPPING OF WILLIAM F. NIEMOUS.

4, SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 5-81 A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE

CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY

HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

Ven-

ON

14 OCTOBER DISIP DIRECTOR RETIRED GENERAL RAUL

•GAINZA SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ HAD ORDERED MIM

TO CARRY OUT AN EXTENSIVE INVESTIGATION OF THE VENEZUELAN

CONNECTION IN THE CUBANA INCIDENT. ALTHOUGH GIMENEZ SAI! THAT

HE INTENDED TO CARRY OUT. THE PRESIDENT'S ORDERS, HE PERSONALLY

FEARED THAT SUCH AN INVESTIGATION MIGHT LEAD TO PRESIDENTIAL

APPOINTEES OR TO COPE! LEADERS. IN EITHER CASE, GIMENEZ SAID

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302138 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FORM

3007 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

9-75

EDITIONS

280-10075

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN

073859

TDFIR DB:-915/30454-76

PAGE 4 OF 6 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS, STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

THAT HE FELT THERE COULD BE DIFFUCLTIES FOR THE PEREZ

ADMINISTRATION.

IN THE FIRST INSTANCE, GIMENEZ SAID HE WAS PERSONALLY

ven

CONCERNED THAT ORLANDOX GAR C I AT PRESIDENT PEREZ'

INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY

AQVISER WHO:MAS BEEN ACTING AS DE FACTO

HEAD OF DISIP, MIGHT BE IMPLICATED, GIMENEZ QUICKLY ADDED,

HOWEVER, THAT THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE LINKING GARCIA TO THE

BOMBING INCIDENT, BUT THAT HE IS KNOWN TO BE INVOLVED IN

UNSPECIFIED ANTI-CUBAN GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES, GIMENEZ SAID "

THAT AS

, AN ADDED PRECAUTION HE HAS ASSIGNED SPECIAL GUARDS FOR

BOSCH AND POSADA, BOTH OF WHOM ARE CURRENTLY UNDER DISIP

DETENTION.

7, FIELD COMMENTI FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON BOSCH'S RECENT

ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND POSADA'S AND GARCIAS'S CONNECTION WITH

HIM SEE HVOI

57514, TDFIRDB- 315/10256-760 FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE

REPORTER..

IN NEWS BROADCASTS A LOCAL TELEVISION STATION (CHANNEL 2) HAS

REPORTED THAT SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS CURRENTLY HOLDING POSITIONS

WITH DISIP WERE SEEN ABOUT CARACAS WITH BOSCH, THE STATION

INDICATED THAT IT WOULD REVEAL THE IDENTITIES OF THESE OFFICERS

" AT A" LATER DATE.)

SECREY

HH 50953 DooId: 32302138 Page J

---

