# 124-10167-10378[c06716615]

## Page 1

124-10167-10378

•F K(I(B)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ATONAL FORM. NO, 11

LET 1962 EDITION

OSA FPMR (61 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

1 - Mr. Leavitt

TO

: Mr

FROM

/ T. J. Cassiay

SUBJECT: HOUSTUDY

DATE: 5/26/76

1 - Mr. Cassidy

120

PURPOSE:

digit,

Assor, Dir.

Dop. AD Adm._

Dap. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.!

Adm. Serv..

Exr. Affälre—

Fin. & Pore. -

Gon. Inv. _

Idens. -

nos pection

Laboratory

Logal Coun.

Plon. & Eval. —

Roc. Mgnt.

Spoc. Inv.

Training

Telophone Rm. -

Diractor Sac'y _

To record results of the interview of you and me by August Fipp,

investigator for the Standards of Official Conduct Committee of the House,

with regard to the handling of the draft report of the House Select Committee

(HSC) received on 1/20/76 from the Attorney General's Office. (First Draft

Final Report)

SYNOPSIS:

On 1/20/76 two copies of the First Draft Final Report of the HSC

were received from the Attorney General's Office at approximately 5 p.m,

with instructions to review for classified information or information which

contained errors relating to Bureau operations. As best as can be recalled,

five Xerox copies were made of this report, with one copy being furnished

to Mir. J. B. Adams; one copy to then Assistant Director W. R. Wannall;

one copy to you; one copy maintained by IS-3 Section, INTD, which Section

coordinated the review; one copy to SA David Ryan; one copy split up for

review by the various Sections of INTD; and one copy split up for review by

Inspection, General Investigative, and Finance and Personnel Divisions..

With regard to disposition, the copies of Mr. Adams, Wannall and your copy

were returned to Mr. Rogovin's office, CIA, by liaison on 3/5/76, on

instructions of Department, IS-3 copy returned to the Attorney General's

Office at their request. SA Ryan's copy, as well as the two copies which

were broken down for various Sections of INTD and other Divisions, were

destroyed.

191

RECOMMENDATION:

None. For information.

RED: 62124321

TWh

47

JUN- 3 1.1976

62-116464

Frigilw

CONTINUED - OVER

84

-

ske

5010-708

1976

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 2

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt

Re: Houstudy

62-116464

DETAILS:

On 5/18/76 Mr. August Fipp, investigator for the Standards of

Official Conduct Committee of the House, interviewed you and me in your

office concerning the Bureau's handling of the first version of the final draft

report of the HSC, which version was received by INTD on 1/20/76.

Mr. Fipp was furnished the following information, which to the

best of my recollection was the way in which this was handled by INTD.

At approximately 5 p.m. on 1/20/76 SA Dalseg received from

Douglas Marvin, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, two copies of

the draft report. SA Dalseg furnished these two copies to then Assistant

Director Wannall who in turn appointed me to coordinate the review of the

report, which consisted of approximately 340 pages, for classified material

and any errors concerning information furnished by the Bureau to the HSC.

This review was to be accomplished by 9 p.m. 1/20/76 and the results

furnished to Mr. Mitch Rogovin at CIA. Based on Mr. Wannall's instructions,

each Section Chief, INTD, was assigned approximately 50 pages to review.

SA Ryan was assigned the task of reviewing the Cointelpro portions of the

report and, as the report contained considerable information concerning the

U. S. Recording Company, the Inspection Division was requested to review

that portion of the report.

Tom Hardy, a former informant handled by

General Investigative Division, had been interviewed by the Committee.

Accordingly, General Investigative Division was requested to review that

portion of the report. As former SA Arthur Murtagh had testified before

the Committee and made a number of allegations concerning the Bureau, a

portion of the report was referred to the Finance and Personnel Division

for review.

With the short deadline imposed, five Xerox copies of the report

were made making a total of seven copies of the report in the possession of

the INNV.:. These copies were handled as follows: one copy to Mr. Adams,

one copy to Mr. Wannall; one copy to you; one copy to IS-3, INTD; one copy

to Mr. Ryan; one copy split up for review by appropriate Sections of INTD;

and one copy split up for review by Inspection, General Investigative, and

Finance and Personnel Divisions.

-2 -

CONTINUED - OVER

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt

Re: Houstudy

62-116464

JFK

(i) (B)

With regard to the disposition of the seven copies, the following

is set forth: on receipt of instructions from the Department on 2/17/76

that copies of this report were to be returned to the CIA, a canvass of all

Sections and Front Office of INTD was made by SA Thomas J. McNiff, who

located three such copies. These copies were the ones furnished to Mr. Adams,

Mr. Wannall and yourself. Memorandum S. F. Phillips to Mr. Leavitt,

dated 3/1/76, captioned "Houstudy 75," contains the notation that on 3/5/76

Liaison Agent Weimar returned three copies to Mr. Rogovin's office at CIA.

At the request of Mr. Douglas Marvin of the Attorney General's

Office, we had previously furnished to him the IS-3 Section copy of the report.

SA Ryan has advised that the copy utilized by him to accomplish

the review for classification and errors was destroyed.

It is the recollection of both myself and SA R. H. Ross, IS-3 Section,

who assisted me in coordinating this matter, that the working copies broken

up and distributed to the various Sections of INTD and the other Divisions were

destroyed.

---

## Page 4

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

(JFK(1)LB)

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106

OSA GEN, REO, NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum:

Mr.

wiN Leavitt

F-GEW

DATE:

W.

cregarlito

1-Mr. Adams

1-Mr. Leavitt

-Mr,

Mintz

4/30/76

(1-Mr. Hotis)

I-Mr. Phillips

I-Mr. Cregar

Assoc. Dir. -

'op. AD Admi

DOpLADIY

Asst, Dira

Admire

Comp.

Syst. -

Ext. Affairs -

Fllos & Com. -

Gon. Inv. —

ident.

Logal Coura

HOUSTUDY 75

Plan. & Ev

Spoc. Inv.

Training

PURPOSE:

To advise that on 4/29/76 Mr. Norman McDaniels

Tolophone Rm. -

Diractor See'y -

(former SA), a member of the investigating staff looking into the

leak of the House Select Committee Intelligence Report, telephonically

contacted Deputy Associate Director Adams for the purpose of ob-

• 193

taining information regarding the Bureau's knowledge of the drafts o

the House Select Committee Intelligence report.

DETAILS:

On 4/29/76 Mir. Norman McDaniels (former SA), a member

of the investigating staff looking into the leak

.of the House Select Com-

mittee Intelligence Report, telephonically contacted Deputy Associate

Director Adams indicating he desired to meet with representatives of the

Bureau in an effort to determine what knowledge the Bureau had regarding

the disposition of the reports of the House Select Intelligence Committee,

After

conferring with Assistant Director Mintz it was agreed

that Deputy Assistant Director Cregar would contact MCDaniels telephoni-

cally and advise him that his request should be submitted in writing to the

Attorney General over the signature of the Chairman of the Committee •

looking into this matter. This was done on the afternoon of 4/29/76

and McDaniels said that he would definitely be contacting the Attorney

General's Office but probably would do so by telephone rather than in

writing. Cregar advised McDaniels that the Bureau would take no further

action in this matter pending advice from the Attorney General's Office.

McDaniels agreed with this arrangement.

It will be recalled that on the morning of Saturday, 1/24/76,

the secretary of Mitchell Rogovin, the attorney hired by William Colby,

then Director of Central Intelligence Agency, telephonically contacted

Cregar in an effort to arrange delivery of the "final report of the House

Select Intelligence Committee to the Attorney General." The secretary

indicated that the Attorney General needed the report inasmuch as the

report was to be discussed at the White House the following day and the

Attorney General's presence had been requires

At that time Rogovin's

WOC: enm

35-111-161-320

(7)

дії.

FX-116

CONTINUED - OVER

1S MAY 1976.

• 84 MAY 2 0 1976

---

## Page 5

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt

Re: Houstudy 75

secretary indicated that this was an "informal" copy of the final report and that

its availability should be restricted.

JFK (1)LB)

Prior to calling McDaniels Cregar cleared with Mr.

Seymour Bolten, the official of CIA handling the House Select Intelligence

Committee matter for that agency. Bolten advised Cregar that

MCDaniels had contacted him and arrangements had been made for

McDaniels to interview Bolten at CIA Headquarters on 5/4/76. Bolten

also advised that McDaniels was aware of the fact that Mitchell

Rogovin had gotten informal copies of the final draft of the House

Select Committee Intelligence Report and in fact knew the identify

of the person from whom Rogovin obtained this informal copy. (Bolten›

advised that CIA interposed no objection to the Bureau's furnishing

to McDaniels the precise sequence of events leading up to the FBI's

obtaining a copy of the final draft of the House Select Committee Intelligence

Report through Rogovin's office.

In the event McDaniels does obtain the Attorney General's

approval and we are notified by the Attorney General's Office that we

should cooperate with McDaniels, Cregar will meet with McDaniels

to respond to any questions he might have regarding the Bureau's receipt

and handling of the draft of the House Select Committee Intelligence Report.

JFK(1)(8) [Rogovin, who has been completely cooperative with the Bureau while

As a matter of information, Bolten advised that Mitchell]

representing Cla, suffered a mild heart attack approximately two weeks

ago and is currently hospitalized in Georgetown Hospital, Washington, D. C.

ACTION:

For information and record purposes.

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir...)

Dep. AD Adm.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin..

Comp. Syst..

Ext. Aífairs.

Car. liv..

Idert...

Laboratory

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt..

Spec. Inv.

Training.

2=

---

