# 124-10170-10006

## Page 1

124-10170-10006

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/18/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10170-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82555-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, BR

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/29/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, POLICE COOPERATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

V9.1

NH 52333

DocId: 32169687

Page 1

---

## Page 2

COPIES

DESTROYED

4-5 (Rev."'4-17-635

DECODED COPY

- AIRGRAM

'CIA MAX GAUBLEGRAM:

TROLASS NATION AND/OR,

i: CIA INFORMATION

Toison .

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Evans -

Gole

Rosen 3

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

I RADIO

TELETYPE

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy =

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SiO/sCL

DECLARSIFY ON: 2344

71) 12651

SECRET.

1 FEB 0 1 1973

VERY URGENT

11-29-63 P

TO DIRECTOR AND LEGAT PARIS

FROM LEGAT BERN

hert

NO. 241

wher

CHANGED. LEE HARVEY

OSWALD, AKA HARVEY LEE OSWALD, INTERNAL

SECURITY - R. AND CUBA.

TITLE CHANGED TO SHOW CORRECT SEQUENCE OF FIRST AND

MIDDLE NAMES.

RE BERN CABLE NOVEMBER 26.

SWISS FEDERAL POLICE ADVISED UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL IN CON-

VERSATION WITH RICHARD THOMAS

it SONg MENTIONED IN RECAB,

IS FREDY GILBER

WHOSE BACKGROUND APPEARS |

IN CIA MEMO DATED SEPTEMBER 10 LAST ENTITLED RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON. SFP ALSO ADVISED INDICATIONS GIBSON WILL GO TO PARIS

FROM LAUSANNE SOME TIME BEFORE DECEMBER 15 NEXT.

COHN DIMMERS

CHIEF OF CIA, BERN, STATES HE RECETVED

CABLE FROMEHIS HEADQUARTERSSINQUIRING ABOUT FEASIBILITY

OFO

INTERVIEW OF GIBSON CONCERNING WHETHER HE CAN THROW ANY LIGHT

ON OSWALD'S ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT. DIMMER WISHESITO C

COORDINATE WITH LEGAT BERN. I CONSIDER SUCH INTERVIEW LOGICAL

AND DESIRABLE. INTERVIEW CAN BE CONDUCTED BY ROBERT C. ODE,

EXPERIENCED AND RELIABLE EMBASSY CONSULAR OFFICER, AFTER

CLEARING WITH AMBASSADOR. GIBSON CAN BE REQUESTED TO COME TO

EMBASSY FOR INTERVIEW OR ODE WILL, GO TO LAUSANNE IF NECESSAR

it , 63

105:

-825%16

10457

3: 190l

Classified by

Exempr trom

Category

1563

tion Indefinite

DEC 5

19630

SECRETA

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it's suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NH 52333 DocId: 32169687 Page 2

---

