# 124-10326-10183

## Page 1

124-10326-10183

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10183

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-35253-1246

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE:

10/04/1963

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32313255

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ORFIONAL FORCINO. 10

MAY IP62 EDITION

3010-106

OSA GEN. REG/ NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC, New York (105-35253)

DATE: 10-4-63

A FROM

Director, FBI (109-584)

CIA SUMEDO OBJECTION TO

FICATION AND/OH'I-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIORE CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCOP BRACKETS p9.1

1-7-97

TEGORY

ASSI, TUATICN

DATES OF DIA

DONINI TE

During the past few weeks Bureau has received information

concerning anti-Castro activities reportedly based in Nicaragua.

This information suggested that Cuban exiles possibly were in the

process.of organizing another invasion force.

Manuel Artime, a

prominent Cuban exile, reportedly has been spending considerable

time in Nicaragua allegedly organizing exilesla

In view of the information contained in relet and the

increasing role of Nicaraguo in anti-Castro activities, a discussion

was had with CIA concerning these matters on 9-25-63132U)

With reference to the meeting of Cuban exiles allegedly

held in New York City in July, 1963, mentioned in relet, CIA

duised that it had no informations concerning this meeting ano

pointed out that William Caldwell Mad been stationed in AustraliaS

for the past two years. - Caldwell was in the U. So for o few days

in about the midale of August, 1903, but he has not been involved

in any cuban matters since his assignment to Australias)

With reference to Nicaragua, CIA advised that it was not

involved in any intelligence operation with Luis somoza, former

President of Nicaragua.

CIA emphasized that it was not

organizing

a Cuban invasion force in any country. CIA indicated with regard

to Somoza that CIA had received numerous reports and rumors concern-

ing somoza's activities and his alleged connection with the To So

Governmento. CIA advised that for several months Somoza has been

championing a plan, allegedly designed by him, which has as its

objective to overthrow the Castro government.

The plan essentially

consists of training Cuban exiles in Nicaragua and would involve

collaboration with other Central American cuuntries including

Nicaragua.

According to CIA,

the Kennedy Administration has

reviewed this plan and has disapproved it.

has not hesitated to use the name

Nevertheless,

Somoza

I - Miami (105-1742)

1 - WEO (105-29995)

6-16-98

SERIALIZED - FILED

Дос. ?

1963

FBI - NEW YORK

CLASSIFED BY 51668 SLA/KER

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

105-35-853-1246

7N 50953 Docld:32313255 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NED HEREIN

WHERE

SAC, New Fork (105-35253)

10-4-03

Director, FBI (209-584)

ANZI-FIDEL CASTRO ACZIVITIES

IS • CUBA

CASAITOM

PosT 1259.

9/18178

HORY

EXET 1 D

DATE OF DACIACANACAETON TU

- 1l

BellYlet 9-17-63(4)

During the post few weeks Bureau has received information

concerning anti castro activities reportedly based in Micarague,

This information suggested that Cuban exiles possidly were in the

process of organizing another invasion force.

prominent Cuben exile,' reportedly has been spending considerable

time in Nicarague allegedly organizing exiles

576854/15R

In view of the information contained

in relet and the

increasing role of Nicaragua in anti-Castro activities.

•discussion

was had with CiA concerning these matters on 9-25-63.

with reference to the meeting of Cuban exiles allegedly

neld in new hork city in July, 1903s mentioned in relet, CIA

• 25X

caused that it nod no information

JFK

concerning this meeting ano

pointed out that illiam Calduellhad been stationed in Australia S

CLASSIFIED B

DECLASSIFY ON

for the past two years Calduel? was in the U.S. for a few days

in about the midale of august 1903s but he has not beer innolved

in any cuban matters since his assignment to Australta

With reference to Nicarague, CIA adulsed that it

was not

involved in any intelligence operation with buis Somoze, Jormey

President of Nicarague.

CIA emphasized that it was not organizing

o cunon invasion force in any country. CIA indicated with regard

to Somoza that CIA had received nunerous reports and rumors concerr-

ing Somoza's activities and his alleged connection with the t. S.

Coverinent.

CIn advised that for several nonths Somoza has been

championing a plan, allegedly designed by him, unich has as its

objective to overthrow the Castro goverment.

The plan essentiolly

consists of training Cuban exiles in Nicaragu and would involve

collaboration uith other Central American countries including

nicarague.

According to ClA

the kennedy Administration nas

squiewed this plan and has disapproved it.

Herer the tess Soma,

not hesitated to use the name

of the be sailo

his hunterous

1 - Miami (205-1742)

CIAMAS RFO:S6205029995)

CLASS BY 1 MAC

oct?

1963

(")

DECLASSICA NIGN AND/OR,

DATE. OF/5

OADRU

FBi - NEW YORK

684

6mB 1-297 5001152

JFK)

55203929

NN 50953 DooId:32313255 Page 3

---

