124-10280-10082|

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSI
nae : :

INATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10280-10082
RECORD_SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2531

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 08/11/1977
PAGES: 4
SUBJECT: OBA, CORU, ASSOC, VENEZUELA, TERRORIST ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

pe SIRENS Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 06/08/1998 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS _ Redact i .
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32302145 Page 1


ieee seme ee eerie e [SECRET (When Filed ny : ee,
i : © PRIORITY
Intelligence Information Cable
IN 3? Lb3b

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR JCS/MC_(DIA) ¢ C¢_SWS NSA TREAS NSC/s sD0 NiO OCR PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES
7TAG)  SS/I SECUR wHstTrm DDA

Clossified by Reportind.OFficer. Exempt from General Deciassification Schedule of £.0, 11652 Exemption
Category 58 (1),2)) Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic De¢latslfication. \

i FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
@ CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
oe THIS 1S AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

FEDERAL GOVERMENT __, CITE TOFIR DBCI 325/09399-77
rere

7y a e
ValeTiea | he Fees Yeqeaue /Q] "dist 44 AUGUST 1977

Al LASS S ECR E T-=WARNING NOTICE=SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE yy
7
/ SOURCES AND. METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASAALE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS~ ey
; 2 NaN
NOT RELEASABLE To CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS= DISEMI= SNS.
NATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR, if (gr
— COUNTRY: — VENE ZUELA/CUBA Adm . male (Z4 eX!
a ; i ALL FoI INFORHATION CONfaMED (ew) ANN\E Ss ©
ydor + AuGUST 1977 ee eae el de elassihed SEU |
3 a onteL do ~8Y 1 SOS mpl /Ksfe ay ;
SR SUBJECT: VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT CONCERN ABOUT ALLEDGED CUBAN h®X |
~ .f : fe SS |
: aS y, EXILE TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. BR
‘i Bo.
© 2 of } BN
Race : VENEZUELA, CARACAS (9-10 AUGUST 1977) wvcf 2 EN
< > i :
Fk SOURCE: SEE BELOW é Bec * :
it 1. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2-3 BELOW: A VENEZUELAN GOVERN- o
3 MENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAS ACCESS To OFFICIAL REPORTS. HE IS A na ale
: -195 heen [ig Ppa — addi PIAL |
& usualy RELIABLE REPORTER, ‘THYS INFORMAT Not’ fo Be :
Wa ae
& DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE Ofemehiis
& feaeaaver iat
! VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. neh
UELAN MEN 14 AUG 24 1977

2, -HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIALS oF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. )
(GOV) ARE SERIOUSLY CONCERNED ABOUT POTENTIAL TERRORIST ACTIVITIES
IN VENEZUELA 8Y CUBAN EXILES. THE ORIGINAL INFORMATION CONCERNING

PRO TERRORLS. $ 604
pps [gp AoTiviries WAS MADE AVAILABLE TO THE Gov BY
a LIF : / sS&CRET y\

HW 50953 DocId:32302145 Page 2


pos ee oe einssopten made a 2P-f6 CM

for review at FBIHQ by, ,

ae Ssseeeeeea ane ee coated

oie REGENCE DIV. if

y ANTE IN 37Ub3b
“

7 ay 9 TOFIR DBCI 315/09399-7?
WARNING Nowe \t We weld
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES ETHODS INVOLVED PAGE a OF y PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification) a

1

THE CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE (CUIS) THROUGH THE CUBAN EMBASSY
IN CARACAS. THE INFORMATION WAS PROVIDED IN THE FORM OF LETTERS»
ACOUIRED FROM A CUBAN PENETRATION OF THE COORDINATED UNITED
REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION (CORU). THESE LETTERS WERE
INTERCEPTED BY A CUIS SOURCE AND FORWARDED TO HAVANA FOR
CLANDESTINE OPENING AND ih asante CUIS ANALYSTS COMPARED THE
LETTERS (REPORTEDLY ORIGINATED 7, oT AILeD CUBAN’ ‘EXILE LEADER
onan BoSscCH WETH HANDWRITTEN PAPERS YAND" SIGNATURES AVAILABLE
AT HAVANA eee OF THE INTERCEPTED LETTERS
WAS CONFIRMED BY THE CUIS AS THAT OF BOSCH'S, THE TEXTS OF THE
LETTERS WERE COPIED AND A COPY OF THE LETTERS AND A CUIS ANALYSIS
OF THE CONTENTS WERE. MADE AVAILABLE To THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE
FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE ANG PREVENTION (DISIP) AND TO

VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES ERE 2. Peacawel&
: —_

3, TARGETS FOR ASSASSINATION BY CORU IN VENEZUELA, AS
. 7 es ee

INDICATED IN THE INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE CUIS INCLUDE THE

7 BS

FOLLOWING: oRLanDo ))s ARC TAA VAZQUEZ, THE CHIEP/ OF OPERATIONS
« y

FOR DISIP; RICARDOXM OR AL E SW NAVARRETTE, A FORMER DISIP

as © s-BlO RET As

HW 50953 DocId:32302145 Page 3
