# 124-90138-10055

## Page 1

124-90138-10055

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90138-10055

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-66491-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO:

LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1961

ALBERT BURKE

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32337786 Page 1

---

## Page 2

8/30/93

Classified

986311°

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVE

MENT

Memorandum

Mr. L'Allier

SECREA

DATE: February 14, 1961.

FROM

S. J. Papich)

GIA MAS NO ARICOTION TO

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr _

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone

Rosen .

Tavel -

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room -

Ingram -

Gandy .

RELEASE GE MIA IRFORMATION

SUBJECT:

ALBERT BURKE] 5)

INFORMATION CONCERNING

thE bRACKETS

The captioned individual recently presented a f

concerning the political situation in Cuba.

Since then

initiated a moan detonationame connie el

Internal Security Section was interested in establishing

nature and extent of Central Intelligence Agency's (CIA) relation-

ship with Burke. Othe following information was furnished to the

February 10, 1961, by Steve Kuhn and Mrs. Jane

Roman of CIA

HERDIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SHOWN

EXCEPY WHERE

SE

OTHERWI

Burke nas never been an employee of CIA. In the past th

Igency has utilized him on a contract basis when Burke was in the

position to develop positive intelligence information during the

course of his foreign travels.

He is not controlled by CIA and

the Agency is in no way involved with his TV programs 5 (Burke] 6) L

is currently employed by the metropolitan Broadcasting Company.

Burke ecently called on CIA and inquired if he could

be furnished

material for his program on ["Dynamics of Communism. 5)

CIA made available to him unclassified material such as pamphlets

and certain books.

CIA does not possess any derogatory information

•concerning Burke. No data has been received by the Agency indicating

that he is a Soviet Agent or that he is acting on behalf of the

Communist Party, U.S.A.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Internal Security SectionREG

65-66491=

4-8-48

b559: ban ban CLASSIFEDBY 5668

500||SS82 FEB 17 1961

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

- Mr. Baumgardner

Mr. LaPrade

(JFK)

1

- Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

-1.

-COPIES MADE

DATE 6-2.28 89BN

REVEN RPiChUR DELIVERY

TO NSCA RE REQUEST DATED 4-28.-

(SEE BUFILE 62-117200)

mens

62 FEB 21 1961.

SECRED

65-66491=

NH 50953 DocId:32337786 Page 2

---

