124-90137-10082|

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90137-10082

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-89923-111
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE:
DATE: 12/09/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBIECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
CLIP
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact

DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: = MEMO.

v9.1

| NW 50953 DocId:32337316 Page 1


susan Ss

Malone

cro 9g Cf Tote i
PED ‘STATES GOVE “ENT Z Rorsona

1 ae S ; mak
<Memorandum |

ut . He . McGuire,
Ss)! osen
To a Lraier EP SECRET "% 12-946 on
a a, i e, f

From : S. J. ,Papich + P 7.

Declassify en:
ie ) 568 LIEK SFE) ofte]s a
" mm. J oe val
susyec] cP] (r Ce Mee a aa etes a fo Py tak)
aH CasTRo Pilg iL A upg me chesie,
“Te ASTR é r
i On December 8,/°1960, (@iark Simmons entral Infe¥ligence
| Agency (CIA), made reference to a Bureau memorandum dated November 9,
1960,,. captioned as above. According tofSimmons}Ahis memorandum
included a report of an interview with a Bureau informant in
New York City. On Page 4 of the Bureau report is a reference to
a CaptainWalloy, who was characterized as being the over-all
I; nudes Director offfrente Revolucionario Democratico (rrp) (3
4

pg)
a innondldtatea that CIA has been unable to identify

to Malloy an gsked if it would be possible to furnish a more complete
| description(9Ys imnons [further stated that if the Bureau saw it
wu

fitting to fuffiish the identity of the source, it might enable
CIA to better determine the identity of Malloy

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention i
of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. [fhe reply to CIA should
\ be transmitted via Liaison. u)

dees fh, 19-10-47 :

CLASSIFIED BY & SOLUS

i

| es

f 1 - Mr. Donahoe LEGLASSIFY ON: 25%. Je
1 - Mr. Nasca : TFK)

\ 1 - Liaison ( :

H 1 - Mr. Papich

ctr a aaa)

; j per 20 389
or uid NFORMATION ‘eal

+ Prehehers saan —_
KE 4-97
ee eo erat cea eer ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
Fa

ECRET

E HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT be
a WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. . (y>' er"
!
! q
| LNs : i

HW 50953 DocId:32337316 Page 2
