[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

re
; :
Vf

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10208-10436
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 2-1396-15
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: = CIA
DIRECTOR, CIA
DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE
DATE: 11/22/1954
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS :
EB, ASSOC, COSTA RICAN REVOLUTION, OFFER,
EXCLUSIVE COVERAGE, AMERICAN NEWS MAGAZINE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATIO! Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATU: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIE’ 06/16/1998

COMMENTS :

OPENING CRITERIA :

APPROVAL OF CIA.

INC MEMO,

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32292160 Page 1


)
4

SO agg

eo 6a '

the course of our investigation of the subjects It ts
noted that a copy of the attached nenorandum was evtously
made available {0.4 representative of your Agencyjat
Hezico citys :

The attached memorandum reflects that the subject

was arrested by the Mezican Bank Police on June 10, 1954,

in connection with the, printing of fraudulent check forms
and thet the subject escaped from the custody of the Mertcan
authorities on June 16, 1954. The subject's possible
fugitive status in Yerico was brought to your attention
through channelsjon Novenber 23, 1954.¥ At the same
time tt was suggested that the information concerning the
subject*s present whereabouts, which is set’ forth in your
communtcation of November 22, 1954, he called to the

attention of appropriate Mezican authorities. On November 24,
1954, you advised that you did not desire to
make this tnformatton aueila can authorities tn

order t to jeopardize your information in this
natter >) wl) fea aeeeeeaeeeeereeeee

In view of the foregotng, no further action is
contemplated by this fureau with respect to the information
set forth in your referenced communication of November &8,
1954.

These data are for your information and are not
intend r further dissemination.
aifggnelce

NOTE VOR LEGAL ATTACHE, MEXICO CITY:

Attached is one co need CIA
communication. CIA advised that the
grea set out in this coammung cation was obtained

rom n the United States.

9 active investigation need be CWiducted concerning this
matter; however, you should maintain contact wit th (CIA
lecall nd furnish the Bureau with any information coming
to yo ttention which would warrant reopening our previous
Registration Act investigation of the subject.

NOTE: Pertinent data in Bureau's possession concerning
subject was previously furntshed to State Department.

HW 50953 DocId:32292160 Page 2
