'124-10226-10265]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/6/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10226-10265
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-202233-46
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, SJ
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 03/18/1974
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
FS, NAVARRO, WILFREDO, CUBANOS UNIDOS, MILITANT
CUBAN ORGANIZATION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
* DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 04/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE.
COMMENTS :

vol
HW 50953 DocId:32299985

Page 1


‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 H
MAY 1882 EDITION
GSA FPMR (31 CFR) 101-116

1 UNITED STATES GC 3RNMENT

beer
Memorandum

aly Wb y (295-202233) CONFIDENTIAb=:: 3-28-74
6-4-%
rrom : SAC, SAN JUAN (105-12631) (RUC) ae o
Se 7 CLASSIFIE 506% SLY
supject: CUBANO S UNIDOS ° REASON: ; U e)
(UNITED CUBANS) BE cae coe
‘so ea ae

ReMMlet to Bureau, 12-20-73. -

The following sources were contacted on the dates
indicated and were unable to furnish any information concerning
this matter:

Source Date ' Contacting agent :
SJ 420. 1-16-74 SA Li) CARTER CORNICK, JR¢:
ABLE BAe) 2-12-74 SA MICHAEL G; DOUGLASS

Sy11T3-P 1-29-74 SA GERALD V, LEAHY
SJ 1357-PSr 3-21-74 SA LEAHY
Sergeant ALBERTO 3-1-74 SA LEAHY

BERMUDEZ, Office ;

of Intelligence, SLC IRFORHATION COMTAARA

Police of Puerto WESEIW 1S UNOLAS

Rico meter
, WISE eee :

On 2-13-74, SJ 492-S advised that he had no information
concerning this matter but that he would attempt to obtain
information, He stated that he is acquainted with Father CHABEBE
and that Father CHABEBE would in all liklihood contact him if he
came to Puerto Rico. He stated that he had not seen or heard ©
from CHABEBE for several months, i

On 3-1-74, SJ 492-S advised that he had been unable
to obtain any information concerning "The Pope Speaks." He
stated that he is certain that there is no such organization as
United Cubans (Cubanos Unidos) in Puerto Rico, He also stated
that he was unable to find any information concerning WILFREDO
NAVARRO or GORDON. DI BATTISTO. He stated that he did know that
Father CHABEBE was in favor of preaching the Cuban cause to the
American people but that he did not know of any specific program
that CHABEBE had in this regard. He stated that he would be
alert for any information concerning the above and would immediately
report any information that came to his attention to the FBI Uy

9 /OS-a0ated

- Bureau (RM : i i

- Miami ({05218943) (RM) aa 2 MAR 25 1974

1 - San Juan ST 113
Ga CONDENTIAL — |

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

| NW 50953 Docla:32299985 Page 2
