NNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
ONS ‘

124-10280-10080).....) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KEI

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10280-10080
RIES: HO
AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2513

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: CIA ee
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1977

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: OBA, CORU, ASSOC, DETENTION, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA
AIRLINER, THREAT, PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL | NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: — 06/08/1998 UPDATE_DATE:
STATUS — Redact :
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

HW 50953 DocId:32302143 Page 1


@ PRIORITY ;

WARNING NOTICE IN 318427
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSH TI EAS INSC/S WH/SITRM PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
soo NiO OCR £SY/TAG}  SS/ID
Classified Bren Reporting Officer. Exempt from Gene lossification Schedule of £.0. 11652 Exemption

DIRECTORATE OF Category 5B Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.
OPERATIONS

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
SECRET FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CITE TOFIRDB~315/07029-77

: fPoamen: arr bist. 15 JUNE 1477

REPORT CLASS S EC RE T WARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES 4ND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NAT-IONALS*
NOT RELEASABLE To CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSUL TANT S=

BySSEN IN SNON OR EXTRACTION OF: ue E. Cy aaa BY ALD

a SS) su rr PORATION fh r
aS du ee HEREIN IGQURGRASSIFIED A, fs yee
LSS Sp: X45 JUNE 1977 DATEL Bt G4B\.. mp of
‘Bee hy ‘
Kt & Sug) TiS VENEZUELAN CONCERN ABOUT A POSSIBLE THREAT TO THE ‘f
I oS = \
oeKe SSsarery OF PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ DURING HIS AN
= : ES _
@ & Bogle \SSFORTHCOMING VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES
ay2e
pamareir] S4 ‘S)
SG aR \ VENEFUELA, Caracas C45 JUNE 1977) FIELD no. [Avo 82 ;
SGaceVyrv
source: an OFFIC TAL_VENEZUELAN sen fhe) [7 Oe fhe 2f 2514
1, VENEZUELAN SECURITY AUTHORITIES HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION

i ee
THAT AN ATTACK MAYBE MADE AGAINST PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

PEREZ DURING HES FORTHCOMING TRIP TO THE UNITED STATES. STATES, THE

\ SOURCE OF THE VENEZUELAN AUTHORI TIESY a BE og i) 18 GL08E Ap

cu
Cte a
EXILESGEATER ORLANDOM 80 SCH THEREFORE» Ane t =I Gye

Yori
BELIEVE THAT THE INDIVIDUALS PLANNING THE ATTACK anencuRgy xyes.
| © fienezveusn SERVICE [COMMENT IT TS NOT KNOWN WHETHER—FHE-ATTACK 1S,

TO BE AN INCIDENT AIMED AT POLITICALLY EMBARRASSING PRESIDENT PEREZ
ioe igi
OR A PHYSI-CAL—AI-TACK AGAINST THE PRESIDENT'S LIFE, ) )0972 2

“o>
S55 J0T 5 1977) eleven "

HW 50953 DocId:32302143 Page 2


“4 Z FO-100
Sy" 3007 U8 UEEtE eREYIOUS copies made, &4

for review at FBIHQ by |

7 IN| 315427 ¢
.
RECEIVED DIV. TDFRDB=325/07029-77
warnine Nbifdet !GENC
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE © OF 2 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER QUBEHN AT ariony AND” Ve OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
stares AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

2. (FIELD COMMENT! FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON A MESSAGE
FROM BOSCH, WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CON
NECTION WITH THE 6 OCTO3ER 1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRi-INER SEE
puef 80, TDFIRDB~315/05944-77, OF 14 JUNE 1977) FROM A SOLRCE OF
UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY. IN THIS MESSAGE BOSCH SAYS THAT
VENEBUELt MUST BE ATTACKED.)

3 FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS: SENT TO USUN,

REPORT CLASS S ECR ET WARNING Not ICE* SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED*NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS=

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS oR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANT S=

DISSEMINATION OR EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

ORIGINATOR, CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, xXGDSe2,

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR NSA JCS SUS FBI
SS/ID = TREAS CIAOPSCEN

aaececee { SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32302143 Page 3
