AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10062-10355
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  105-82555-5617

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, Mx
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 09/30/1969
PAGES: 7
SUBJECT: LHO, ASSOC

DOCUMENT_TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW _DATE: — 09/24/1997 : UPDATE DATE:
STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32140768 Page 1


mo. 10

eae ‘mmo
eee Skr"t9e2 tomow
08 rome tat Cra) HON-1t8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum _ gurna vo onssten
OP ASSIFICATION AN
Director, FBI ~}08>92555) gee OF CIA INI

SEUINLS
FROM: ip egat, Mexico “tity (105-3702)

S| sunject: LEE HARVEY ai Conf iWential
IS - RUSSIA - CUBA
‘

ReBulet 9/12/69 to Assistant Attorney General, Intern:
— Security Division, copies of which were forwarded to this office./

atte Enclosed herewith are two Xerox reproductions of the
Mexico City file copies of Mr. CHARLES THOMAS' memorandum dated
12/10/65, and the memoranda from this office to the Ambassador
dated 12/27/65 and 2/23/66 (2

Background
suns ano DE; {Paz, or Miss GARRO as Mr. THOMAS calls
her, is a well Known figpre in Mexican political, social and

literary circles. She was a playwright and well known to many
egy ee of the Embassy including the then Ambassador FULTON
jKegiFREEMAN, the then Deputy Chief of Mission CLARENCE A./BOONSTRA,
izgland-“many others. All of those officials expressed tg'me on
various occaSions the opinion that Miss GARRO is a véry interestil
person and a scintillating conversationalist, but that she has a
vivid imagination and frequently appears to be unable to distingu:
ie between truth and fiction. Although interesting, they all conside
fi her as highly unreliable as a source of information except for
< Mr. THOMAS who apparently placed consistent credence in what Miss
© GARRO said.
Fi When Miss GARRO visited this office in November 1964, s}
BA claimed that she had seen LEE HARVEY OSWALD at a party given at
4 the home of RUBEN‘DURAN on September 30, October 1, or October 2,
: Es 1969, as reported ih Mexico City letterhead memorandum of 12/11/64
tc «AS pre ioy ly Guaiees: Miss GARRO claimed that her daughter,

mee a INSTENIUS. "Pen JRentification of this 1. Se « who “hag:

ai tagd t Tov ext ia 7
OD PRET HE Np SE ae 12 95 5 Sh,

3 G Bureau (Encs.-6) ~ fare

. (1 - Liaison Section

1-M Cit ® '
base pales teen ED S:

5 dey Gout Niacial
Ly Moto-¢$,69 =
KL NG: -—~ if
~ E Buy U.S. Savings. Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

4G) sonore | 484

HW 50953 DocId:32140768 Page 2


‘and not the FBI or the Department Of MUsiticd is the one to

. : sone Nal SECRET
MEX 105-3702 Tet 3ABE tidy, VAC LL

who. acquired this intelligence information, I feel a 7
responsibility for seeing it through to its final evaluation.'
It appears, therefore, that Mr. THOMAS. bags ow decided that he

decide how the story given by Misg, GARRO? is: Oo be evaluated...

The concept that every person who passes on to another govern-
ment agency information relating to matters within the jurisdiction
of that agency has the responsibility and authority to review

and evaluate the action taken by that agency is, of course,
untenable.

Further question concerning Mr. THOMAS' judgment is
raisedfby item 3 of paragraph 10 of his memorandum furnished to |
the Secretary of State. Any reference to the(Nelose and delicate" {$)
relationship between the head of CIA Mexico and top Mexican
officials, if true, is a very highly classified matter and any
"leak" or revelation to unauthorized individuals concerning such
an arrangement would, in view of the delicate Mexican political
situation, be disastrous to the Mexican Government as well as
to Mexican-American relations. The delicacy of the situation
has recently been greatly augmented by the published Cuban
allegation that one of the officers of the Mexican Embassy in
Havana was acting as a CIA spy with the knowledge of the (°"

Government -% Mr. THOMAS, however, included such a highly

classified reference in a memorandum which he classified y

as "confidential", contrary to-regulations relative to classification -
of documents. While this reference relates to the activities and
operations of another Government agency and therefore is not of
primary concern to the Bureau, it is nevertheless called to the
Bureau's attention for consideration in evaluating Mr. THOMAS'

current allegations.

An additional copy of this letter is being forwarded
for use in the event the Bureau desires to forward a copy to
Dallas which received a copy of referenced letter ./¢

\

HW 50953 DocId:32140768 Page 3
