# 124-10164-10151

## Page 1

124-10164-10151

a 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10164-10151

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-8169

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

EROM:

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/22/1980

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JFK, ASSA, ASSISTANCE, OPINION, SUSPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/30/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC FBI MEMO

NH 50953 DoeId: 32168174

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENÇYMS IS QUESTeN TO.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

D331

RELA DE SIA MOKHA UN

: As Senitin

KP 2/1497

Glossured cy e

MEMORANDUM FOR:

APPROVER FOR RELEASE 1993

MA TER

REVIEW PROGRAM

DRAK

1-160106

Director

U.S. Secret Service

Attention: Intelligence Division

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Intelligence Division

22 FEB 1980

SUBJECT

: Deputy Director for Operations

FEDERAT GOVERHMEND

: Alleged Information on Assassination of

President Kennedy

I. The following information was provided byl

Jan Rio de Janeiro and is being torwarded for your

information and such action as you deem appropriate.

An unidentified caller phoned the Consul General

in Rio de Janeiro 29 January 1980, to offer "sestet informa-

Asenty of the a saservation the rosident Joon 5o Jenuary in the

Consulate.

DE47 62-109060-8164

b. At first, the walk-in refused to identify him-

self or give the names

of persons in his story, but agreed

do so after the interviewer impressed on him the importance

when evaluating information of the identity of the source and

of the other persons involved. The walk-in reluctantly pro-

duced an ID card (1061:51 issued by the technical police on

Purope with his parents and lived

in Hungary and Yugoslavia,

mosily the latter, until 1961 when he returned to Brazil.

He stands about five feet seven inches,

stocky build, hazel

eyes, no glasses, light brown hair

receding at the temples and

graying.

His hands appear those of

a mason, which he claims

to be.

The interview was conducted

in Portuguese o

of which

APR 10 1980

DERIVATIVE CEB% 03526853

REVIV ON 19FEB00

DERIVED FROM DOC:1

PORTIONS OF THIS DOCMENT

ARE CLASSOMAR SASSER

CiA alician 3/5/80 johay to-

give to Dos,

SECRET

quid from come 2124/5087

NH

50953

DooId:3216017% Page 2

---

## Page 3

STORIT

.

SUBJECT

Alleged Information on Assassination of

President Kennedy

cause of Vlasenco's nationality, and the timing of the assassi

nation six months after the blockade of Cuba, Kovacs concludes

that the assassination was ordered by "Brezhney and Fidel

Castro.".

e.

Vlasenco told Kovacs in November, 1963 that be

rented the apartment, dealt in precious stones, and had lived

there for four years.

Vlasenco was away from the apartment dur-

ing

the day, dressed

well, had no family and no car.

Kovacs

guesses he saw him three times during the two week period.

Kovacs asked that the above story be passed to

Senator Edward Kennedy, and at first refused to identify himself

and the characters in his story to anyone but the Senator or

his emissary because he was afraid for his life.

It was for

that reason also that he claims he did not come

forward until

nOW.

Kovacs was assured that his story would not appear in

any newspaper or magazine (which he feared would happen), but

would be sent to Washington by a coded message.

Towards

the

end of the interview Kovacs alluded to his need for money

dirigible which could

pump which could pump liquids hundreds of miles.

When asked

if he had made an effort to interest local entrepreneurs, kovacs

replied that he had expended considerable effort, "but they

laugh at me." Kovacs appears to have a confused

thinking

process and

lively imagination and his story is contradictory.

He probably came forward in the hope that his information

would be worth money.

We do not know whether he himself be

Lieves the story he fold on Rio de Janeiro has

•In Rio de Janeiro has been advised

to have no further contact with Kovacs.

Should addees wish to

pursue the matter, Kovacs' present address is Rua A. 46, VIla

Luiza, Pavuna, Rio de Janeiro.

3.

This Agency has no identifiable traces on Kovacs or

Vlasenco.

CIR 316/00637-80

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId:32168174

Page 3

---

