# 124-10369-10030

## Page 1

124-10369-10030

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/15/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10369-10030

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-A9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO :

WH

TITLE :

DATE: 04/07/1967

' PAGES:

296

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DICTATION VOLUME XIV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, LET, TTY, A/T, MEMO, CABLEGRAMS, LHM, S/S, RAP SHEETS

v9.1

NN 70953

25

DocId: 32319396

Page 1

---

## Page 2

At. W. C. Sullivan

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

*Mr. Deloach

Wick

dosen

SECRET

1

Mr,

4-0-67

Sullivan

Mx. W. A. Branigan

Branigad

Cregar

Mr. Lonthan

ASSASBINATION OF PRESIDENI

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22,

1963,

DALLAS, TEXAS

CIA NAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIF CATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

N THIS WOLUMENT. EXCEPT FOR BRACKET

JBH

7-15-93

0D0/R5R9-85-93

on die out nate attorn

The purpose of this nenorandum is to recommend that

dissoninate information from our BhamrockJinformant bearing

• (5)

on the asenssination of the late President Kennedy.

[Shamrock] is

the sensitive soviet source who contacted

the central Intelligence Agency (CIA) I-16-67 ahd volunteered

to furniah information, He la being handled by representatives

of CIA and Special Agente of our New York Office.

[Shamrock has recently reported certain details

concerning Soviet Fenction to the assassination of President

kennedy .

Shanzock reported the Soviets baû the kis (comittee

for State Security) make an extensive study of the assassin-

ation and, as a result of this study, the KGB concluded that

President Kennedy was killed by representatives of a group of

monopolists, characterized as the military industrial complex

in the United States.

The KGB felt that President Kennedy had

tried to linit the activities of this group of monopoliste

and therefore they planned his assassination.

Shamroci) further reported that the Boviets felt

that President Kennedy's death was a grent loss, not only for

the united States and the Sovlet Unlon, but for the whole

world.

Accordzng to Shamrock, the Soviets felt that they (,

could trust President Kennedy and could deal with him on a

cooperative basis.

Shamrock further stated that the Soviete 3)

mourned President Kennedy's death, a situation which shamrock CS)

considered very unique inasmuch as the person being journed

was a leader of another country.

The infornation turnished by Shamrock is very similarS)

to that previously furnished to us by Turi Nosenio, a Soviet

defector whose bona fides has not been established.

62-109060

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/S FITS)

REL:cls (8)

EADE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X)(6)

CONTINUED - OVER

HH

50953 DooId: 32319396 Page 2

---

## Page 3

GRET

Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan

RE:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

62 109060

We feel we should disseminate this data since

we have previously dissominated the information we received

from Yuri Nosenko regarding the assassination even though

we recognized some of the data was not subject to proof,

particularly, that occurring within the Soviet Union.

Ne feel that by documenting [Shamrock as a "confidential (S)

informant, contact with whom has been insufficient to

establish his reliability," we will alert other agencies

that the information has not been established as true.

He have received information from numerous other

sources that the Soviets did mourn the death of President

Kennedy and that Soviet leaders felt they could work with

President Kennedy.

ACTION:

lI you approve, we wit, disseminate the data furnished

by the Shanrock Informant as set out herein to the Department,)

to Secrat Servie, to State Dopertment and to boatrul

Intelligence Agency.

was fast cor

of wing anal sto setting fruth

mas Papach

all pertiment data sidese

512/68.

SECRET

on 2 vin

NH 50953

D001d: 32319396

Page

---

## Page 4

I c. D. Deloach

W. C. Sullivan

Nt • Lenihan

The Attorney General

Director, Pat

ASSMSTLAERON 09

VORY PELESERALD PERA

DAXLAS,

TEXAS

ZOVIRE

23, 2003

April 30, 2957

sele

the anariant on of the date resetain forted renetion to

ides sional portinest

16600 CS00 MINE 8O 0U 0E

belosure

63-100080

Barold Jaretoot a

1 - 12. Pred

ne)

2 • M. 3. Miter

REL:as

(7)

NOTE!

-See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67 which

approved this dissemination. This letter l6 classified "Secret

to protect the identity of our ""'Shamrock" source and his S

intormation, the unauthorized disclosure of which could result

in serious damage to the internal security of this country.

1/14/99

(JFK)

CLASSIFIED BY SPL SUK, S

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

Excluded fr

automatie

downgradigs and

declassification

391-10039

NW 50953 DocId:32319396

Page 1

---

## Page 5

- Halson

- Mr. Lenihan

(5) 03-209060

EX LIAIEON

Date:

Tot

April 20, 2067

Director

Bureau of latellig

Departmont of State

John Edger Hoover, Director

Subject:

DALLAS, TIRAS

NOVENESE 22, 3963

Actached de a copy

additional Infersatton no have robesved consertine

Coviet renetion to the senas

mination of the late

Presidens Lenbody*

It is requested that this data recoive no

further dissomination by the recipiente of this

communication without prior reference to this Duro

Enelosure

1 - Direstor, . B. Secret Service (Rolosure) (BI LIAISON

REL aS (6)

NOTE:

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67

which approved this dissemination.

"Secret" to protect the identity of our) "Shamrock"| source and

his information, the unauthorized disclosure of which would

realt lu serious damage to the internal security 97221

country.

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/

(S)

GROUP 1

Excluded Prom

automatio

downgrading

declassifjcation

384-10939

NW 50953

DocId: 32319396

Page

---

## Page 6

SECRETA HAS NO OPIECTION TO

DECLAOSIRICATION AND/OR.

Me. N. C. Sullivan RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION3-1-67

IN THIS LOGUMENT. SACKT

15. 1. A. BrandeRn

FOL BRACKETS MSE

TRA 5:20-13 RoD/ES

Detoach

ur. Wick

Are Conend

a suritva

ASSABORIATION OF PLESIDENT KANKEDY

Lenthen

SoDe 2a0 1000

DALLAS, TEXAS

6-11-93

CLASSIFIED BY 2503 R0D/1

Denorsadun 1r. DeLoach

to Mr. Tolson dated 2-38-67,

sectar tores results of a couverestion ir. Deloach had with

Sorziann nith, peator Whito House correspondent, on 3-28-67.

The Director instructed that Mr. Deloach's menovandas bo

revioved by the Domentio Intelligenco Divielon to ascertain

12 Mr. Suith obtained any information fron New Orlenes Distriot

Attorney Cortison not already reflected in FOl files.

B/N300:

Carrison alloged David Willian Perrie seubes of a

Croup of auti-Castro Cubans who sero located la 1961 and 1962

85 sake Pontchartrain, Loutstana. On 2-23-61 wo were penti-

dentially advised by the Central Jntelligence Agency (CIA)

TORE CAO PEO PLAnning to initiato a training operation at

one cane cassed wales van locatod a short distance south offs)

Dew Orlesna CEt indieated Chis bad would be utilized for

to, 91 course, did not inveetigate CIA's

necretches ac Cenp Belle Casso, Loutsian Nothing in Buresu/s

illon to taoicete David Villan Verate connected with this

training camp.

No also received intormation in July, 1003, a munber

o3 Cuban sezugoes had been brought from Miami, Florida, to

New Orlens, to attend a training camp in the Now Orleans ages.

Our laguiries disclosed these individuls roportedly wore being

reczulted to york in the lumber caups in Guatemla and that they

becane disenchanted and returaed to Mand.

David Willian Ferrie of lee Hurvey Oswald had any contact or

connoction with this group. Results of our inquirtes os this

croup at that time was disseninated to the Tarron Coumaston.

00 12-35-63 David William Tornio advised that from approxiantely

Lovenber, 1960, until August, 2061, bo was associated with the

Cuban Revolutionary Front in Now Orleano, Louisiana, and vag in

contact with Sergie Arcache Satch, to Vow Orleans head.

Terrie

reported he had not had any connection with this organization

or any other nati-Castro organization aisoo daguet, 1001.

62-200060

1 - 205-62555 (Osvald)

SYNOPSIS CONTINUED - OVER

he 1111

12 4639

- 100 30

NW 50953

DooId: 32319396

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Nonorandun Branigan to Sullivan

ne:

62-109060

0060 KATTON OF PRESENT KINDY SECRET

DELALES:

Merrimp Bnith, senior White House correspondent,

reported Carzicon alleges David Willian Ferrie was aesociated

vith a group of anti-Castro Cubans which trained at Lake

pontchartrato, Louisians, during the period 1961-1963.

February 20, 1901, CIA confidentially inforned this Burenu

that in connection vith a sensitive CLA project directed

agalast Cube, one phase of which involved the training of

Cuban exfles, CIA vould initiate a training operation at

[Camp Dollo Chase, located a short distance mouth of Now Orleans

and Lake Pontehartrain. CIA advised that this camp had beon

a desctivated Naval base but would be reopened by CIA undoz a

Departnent of Ariy cover. CIA turther advised it would be

training from 15 to 40 Cubans at a time for a period of about

five wooke.

Ve, os course, did not inventigate CIA's actlyitles

at coup botte Conse, Louisians, ang your files contain noce

Intormation thnt David Willian Ferrieind any connection with

this CIA operation.

In July, 1903, we received information tron several

sources that a number of Cuban zefugees had cone to New Orleans

from tient, Promida, through the extorte of tudolp tovies

reportedly to natone a training canp aster which they would be

sent to a training camp in Guatensla,

Sourcos reported this

group became disenchanted and returned to Mand shortly after

theis arrival.

No Intervieved Rudolph Davis in this natter and ho

indicated he acted as a coordinatoz between the Movimiento

Democratica Cristiano, CIDC), an ants-Caetro organtzation, and

the New Lorks City Polico Department in 2061 and that he was the

delegato for this anti-Castro organization in New Orleans.

stated ho cane to New Orleans in August, 1061, and in early

1063 made friends with persons in the lunber bustness in

Guatemala with whon he formed the Guatenalan Lumber and lineral

Corporation. Davis said he brought approximtely 19 non to

New Orleans to train for lumber cutting work in Guntenala.

Ho

added that when the men learned they wore to work in a lumber

industry and vere not recruited for nilitary operations against

Cubs, they becane disenchanted and returned to Miant.

112os contain no inforantion indicating that David Willian

Ferrie or lee Harvey Oswald had any contact or connection with

Davis or the anti-Castro organization which Davis reprecented.

CONTINUED - OVER

SECRET

39819830

HM 50953

DooId: 32319396

Page

7

---

