# 124-90115-10024

## Page 1

(124-90115-10024)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/4/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90115-10024

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-108665-76

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO :

CIA

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

08/06/1974

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32310453 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEU.21/SENSITIVE

TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

:Intelligence Divisior

: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

REFERENCE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIS CATCH AND/OR,

RELCASE OF JI INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FoRB.

A. Conversation between Mr. William

McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and

Mr. F.I.G. Coleman of this Agency

on

29 July 1974.

FBI New York Report dated 19 July,

Subject as above.

ThE bRACkETS

818/14

кР 210-98

SL0/5R 4-11-98 (55-1)

1: Authorization is granted for your Bureau to pass

pur his schmanty

a copy of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as

above, to the department of Justice for its use.

to make it clear that the former Agency employees mentioned

n paragrapn < or thatcreport

John Patrick MULDOON and

Theodore John ROUSSOS Drovided their information voluntaril

with the intent of seeking the advice of this Agency on the

legality of the proposed venture of the Friends of Abaco

Both men were

advised to avoid contact with the

of to Gian

FOA and to

report their contacts to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

2.

This Agency has not initiated any further contact

with the individuals named above or with Walter Joseph MACKEM,

the third former employee approached by the FOA.

MACKEM,

howevercial police on the at vitiesent the roattemptato get

Man official policy on the activities of the roa

AAG, CRimina DId

Linted

2X-109

62-1.08665

REC 17.

B

AUG 15 1974

CLASSIFIED BY 010116.

XEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIEGATIO

LV, MM.

8/1//20

SCHEDULE OF E.O.

1652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY (2).

IMPOSSIBLE

DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

upenel;

АТ, СG,

+wHi

SECRET/SENSITIVE

ALL FBI TSFORMATION CONTAINED

10/4/96 5668 SLOGeL

JAK:

HW 50953

Do01d:32340453

Page 2

---

## Page 3

of to fans.

ray: + 10-7166166

8181Y

SECRET/SENSITIVE

NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC!

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

: Intelligence Division

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICAT.ON AND/OR

.: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

: A. Conversation between

Mr. William

McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and

Mr. F.I.G. Coleman of this Agency

on 29 July 1974.

RELEASE ON CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT FOR

thE bRACKETS

FBI New York Report dated 19 July,

subject as above.

2-10-98

SED/ISR 41/98 (JFK

Authorization is granted for your Bureau

to pass

' of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as

above, to the department of Justice for its use.

We wish

it clear that the former Agency employees mentioned

paragraph

that report: John Patrick MULDOON and

John ROUSSoS!sprovided their information voluntarily

Centre dyere props tere of ee render are

legality of the proposed

venture of the Friends of Abaco

(FOA) .

Both men were

advised to avoid contact with the

FOA and to report their contacts to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

This Agency has not initiated any further contact

with

the individuals

named above or with Walter Joseph MACKEM,

the third former employee approached by the FOA.

however,

did

himself contact this Agency in an attempt to get

an

orficial

policy on the activities of the FOA. He was

8/14/24

CLASSIFIED BY 010116.

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.O.

11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B (2).

IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE

DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION:

HAG

ICE.

мні,

ON CONTAINED

SE10/21|96 01 5668510/6eL

L0;

sussofa SECRET/SENSITIVE

NN 50953 DocId: 32340453

Page 3

---

