124-10225-10118) | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/21/201
Identification Form

Ageney Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10225-10118
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-114543-1ST NR 164
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE :
DATE: 06/11/1964
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
JURE, EXILE GROUPS, PLAN, INFILTRATE CUBA, DUTIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9

HW 50953 DocIld:32299338 Page 1


pie PGR | ORR

Cen Raw INTELLIGENCE AGEN.)

‘This material contains tnformetion affecting the Netional Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18; U.S.C. Secs, 793 and 79%, the transmission or revelation of which Im any manner to an unauthorized person 1s prohibited by-law.
C Xe oy

S-E-

T
NO FOREIGN BISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic REPORT NO. CS =3/583 , 533

anaemia nce

SUBJECT JPrans ot Cuban Exile Groups for ~~ DA STR. 11 June 1964

CIA HASH BRIECHION POO Ei Satan va
(| (, DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, resp Feet ue eetaret 7
(_ 7) RELEASE OF CIA iNFORMATION eheTs ae
IN THIS DOCUMENT. 3m 6-89-97 gb/kSBag (ek) ees
DATE OF © Mid-April - 6 May 1964 qu rp 4 ORNATION CONTAINED =“,

pein HEREIN IS UNC! ie ap CMs, ana)
"~ FELD REPORT’NO, OEL-38129 {
{

PLACE & England, London on
INGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

ety dem IOS /0E

DATE ACQ. (25 May 1964)
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GI

SOURCE: from a regular source, probably(S) |
et Teliable, from persons mentioned in the report. at

Ye ae on ye
oe Loe d é Coke é
cu fice G

In a private co
de Obreros Revsiucionario Cubanos (FORC, Front of Revolutionary
Cuban Workers}+ claimed that the following exile groups were
conniving to take action against Ohba within the next few months: |
the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE, Cuban Revolutionary Juntad; 4

ovement for ¢

the Movi a!
Revolutionary Recovery); the. el. Army) 3 Ae |
and the "Alliance" of the Mo Rp
Popula volutionary Movement), the ogee Frente Nacional dei a i

onal Front of the Escambray, and

Escambr (SFNE, Second

Alpha

JURE, the ER, and the "Aliiance” were planning to enter Cuba to MK:
prepare the groundwork for internal insurrection, whire the MRR va!
was to carry out diversior y hit-and-run attacks on the Cuban Loe
coa Meanwhile, the FORC was building up its own cl
organization among the work rs in Cuba; its aim is to o
sabotege and slow-downs in Cuban industries, thus paving
eventual general strik FORC claims to have the
Confederacion de Trabajadores Venezolanos (CTV, Ve
Confederation) and of the Confederacion Latinoam
TOE Cristianos (CiASsc, Latin American Christian 1

43 =
Gerba

May eee Sip big ; who is independent of any exile o

2 Li exile groups, including JURE, hav

ve "packing of the United SS) es. JURE was said to
S@™other—mate from the United States in recenta@ |

2..

3

JUN 26 1964

HW 50953 Docld:32299338 Page 2
