124-90188-10015| | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
: Date ——-6/17/201

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90158-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-166639-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI

FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 05/05/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :

CUBAN PAVILION
[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: = PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

v9.1

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

TT

HW 50953 DocId:32340358 Page 1


PAN :
Fase relentitaet K - Tolson
455 (Fev. 1-27-66) \ DeLouch

a ye Mohr

[SE cae
DECODED -£<OPY
CL
J AIRGRAM 2 CABLEGRAM. RADI xx TELETYPE rein

12:01 AMURGENT 5-5-67 PUL cas

TO DIRECTOR
gu Bg Re M MIAMI! 050.00
sakes
[é oes
RS Lee RAN SCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYOS UNKNOWN SUBJECTS. [rareat TO an
<< ial

CU BAM PALTL fa
BOMB EXPO SIXTYSEVEN, MONTREAL, a OT

ew \

Declassify
CIA CONTACTED NIGHT OF MAY RE THEIR VIEW TOWARD INTERVIEW

BAe

&
b
a
2
6
e
&

RE MM TEL MAY l, LAST.

OF SUBJECT RODRIGUEZ BY BUAGENTS, CIA BELIEVES[THE FUTURE

VALUE OF THEIR SOURCE, Luist®3sa0n]Stouto PROBABLY BE Lost @“2#
AND NEGATIVE RESULTS OBTAINED IF RODRIGUEZ INTERVIEWED. CIA f)
UNABLE TO CONTACT posapafts OF 9:30 PM, MAY h, BUT WILL PROMPTLY
ADVISE RESULTS OF[POSADA'S RECONTACT ETH RODRIGUEZ OCCURRING
NIGHT OF MAY h, &

MIAMI RECOMMENDS THAT ey BOE oe HELD Ny

ABEYANCE UNTIL RESULTS OF HIS [CONTACT BY poskhe

ON MORNING OF MAY 5. B)G0 REC-38

RECEIVED: 12:21 am rey SIA HAS NO OBJECTION Thay 11. 1967

Bere ROC Bt AL

PRUE ea PUES SS ty

is cone KE
IN FA iE Bl
execpt Fa LAE bap hes

(SECRED

if the oo contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

4 ak, the Bureau’s cryptographic systems.

HW 50953 Doc
