# 124-90138-10058

## Page 1

124-90138-10058

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90138-10058

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 64-27446-280

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM: CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/31/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GUSTAVO DURAN MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: • MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953

DocId:32337789

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

21 JAN 1961

TO

SUBJECT:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Vr. S.J. Papich

Deputy Director,. Plans pat

Gustavo DURAN Martinez

64-27446

7(*Xu)

0/5/47 1/0/18 mde

DECLASSIFY ON:/25X

> CIA HAS In CA

TAK TO

T/CLASSI:

METON ANDFOR

ALLENSE OF MA MOORMATON

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKLESS

KP 3-23-48

1.. The following information, has recently been received by this Agency fron

Gustavo DURAN Martinez with the request for

Turther traces on Subject. This Agency would appreciate the receipt of any Bureau

infornation on DURAN that can be passed by us to

An article published during the first part of October 1960 in a New

York newspaper and written by David Sentner noted that one Gustavo DURAN

has recently been promoted to an important position in the United Nations.

Gus tavo JUrAl Martinez was 39 years old in 1936 or 1946, is the son of

(Jose and Petra,

Is a pianist composer, and has the nickname of "the man of

porcelain e

ENTAINEO

ONly

SSIFIRD

9803 RAN

A document dated 16 october 1937 and signed by the Chief of the General

Staff of the Republican Army of the Center names Subject as Chief of the SIM

of the First Corps of the Army with complete authority to organize said

• Intelligence Service.

He was a commander of an International

Brigade.

Before the beginning of the Spanish Civil War Subject used to travel

to foreign countries frequently, but his morality was deplorable and he

ALi, INFORMA

HEREIN IS UNC

associated with men of doubtful morality and was considered a homosexual.

Subject was an aide to General KLEBER. Entering the War as a Major,

was promoted to It. Colonel on the recommendation of "El Campesino",

DATE

LISTER, and MODESTO. During the Republican era Subject helped infiltrate

146}

the Socialist and Communist youth groups with Communism. He brought about

arrests and took part in assassinations.

is wanted by the Military Judges for numerous assassinations on the Levantine

front and in the Barrio de Usera.

765/634

EX 104

(4)(5 564-274446-2

FEB &

$1961

56680

t. SEC.

VADR

ZCRET

NH 50953 DocId:32337789 Page 2

---

