# 124-10210-10096

## Page 1

124-10210-10096

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2493

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

11/05/1974

'PAGES:

3

• SUBJECTS :

SGI, INS, DEPORTATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

• RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

. 79.1

NH 50953

368

DooId: 32292820

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

EC9Y PPEMEPITION

'FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SEE NEVE

SIDE

SE

TO

FROM

ClassiSo

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-317))

-Declassily,

ARReal 9-1128

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13)

11/5/74

2116796

SUBJECT:

2449707K

HNO

OPRIATE ACEN

SAMUEL M.

AND ELI

GIANCANA, aka

"GiANCANACITP

ITER

DAI

9/187

Pass p

ESTOS

Reference Mexico City

airtel 11/4/74.

The contents of this letter are relevant to fathere

referenced airtel setting out background concerning the

possible reasons for subject's deportation.

However,

is reported separately because classified confidential and

not to be reported for dissemination.

(E)

LCIA, Mexico City, was requested to' furnish any

DEP

information they might have

concerning subject's presence

in Mexico and deportation..

On,10/4/741

advised that he had furnished some information which he

believed originated with the Drug Enforcement Administration

(DEA) |

3

He believed this was done some weeks before subject was de

17

with DEA at the times

might have asked him to do this. ..s

advised that after subject was detained, l

the detention and that

subject was going to be deported

(DRO)!

said that

this action was taken because sentent was let ment

and that the action was notebased onpany act vitoes.of a

criminal nature which might berconsidered, in violation

Mexican law.

CULL IDENTIA

saying simply that the subjéc

papers verel not in order

On 10/2/74

delivered

a blind

memorandum

classified confidentialodated

1072/74

"Information

on Sam Giancana" as follows

Foun

" SO CONTENTAL

92 =

-24%

BY

263

SNOK SO 1.97

EXT

5

-Bureau

SC. TODULE

088

(1-Foreign Liaison utte

(2-Chicago) (92-349)IbYOMAT

CALLY

Mexico City

07 RIS

Buy Us

SEND Endo

How Inder

ATI

WHO MATRON CONTATNED

gularly

on

5010-108-02

NH 50953 DocId: 32292820

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

MEX 92-13

(c

"On 23 Mav 1974 we asked

Information that ther misht have on San GrANcANA (C]

Jit was believed that

(CLoney mignt nave some intormatIon on GIANCANA",

never received our contact this request. Thuly

1974 g

however,

told [C

• us that the Government of Mexico (GOM) was expelling

GIANCANA from the

country, to the United States,

DNTI

within 24 hours

"In meetings held with our contact on 23 August,

28 September, and I October 1974, we brought up the

subject of GIANCANA.,

The contract said that the

local immigration authorities had been seeking

GIANCANA because he was in the country illegally.

They finally located him in July,

arrested him on

the spot, and deported him the following day.

The

expulsion was not carried out on the basis of any

specitic Intormation supplied by the Us Embassy,

nor

,were there any indications that he was engaged in

any criminal activity here.

Rather it was an

Internal GoM decision to expel an unwanted

alien

who was living illegally in Mexico

It is noted that this blind memorandum does not

appear to document the previous

information from

and is somewhat contradictory

In Further explanation 10/2/74

said he (C]

now believes Mr. HARRINGTON had asked him merely to determine C

had any information on the subject since

pelieved subject may have been designated by the

embassy Narcotics Committee as a

target. " (c)

He stated he did not believe that he had indicated in any.

manner to

that the embassy thought subject(C]

was involved in narcotics activities in Mexico.

He did

mentioned the possibility that because of emphasis being

placed on narcotics by both governments, high Mexican officials

might have reached the decision that subject should be ex-

MAFIA because of his widely publicized connections with the

CONFID AP

2

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32292820 Page 3

---

