124-10205-10371

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/28/201

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
HW 50953 DocId:32290595

Agency Information

FBI
124-10205-10371

HQ

97-4073-1ST NR 8, 9

Document Information

FBI
DIRECTOR, FBI
SAC, MM

06/22/1960
75

CUBA LIBRE, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, NEWSPAPER,
PUBLICATION, PATRIA LIBRE, ACA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

03/02/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

LINC RPT

Page 1


DoF : :
“FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59) ia o
/ et Saintes SECRET aon
U4, 0t ATED STATES DEPARTMENT OF.__JSTICE .
ie Bees FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
1 = INS, Miami (RM) ;
I. =.US Customs, Miami: (RM) ,
1. - US. Border Patrol, Miami - (RM) : .
1 =.G=2,.Ft.. McPherson, Ga. (RM) :
Copyte: 1.~.ONI, DIO, 6th ND,.Charleston, $. C. (RM)
1.~ OSI, MacDill AFB, Tampa, Fla; (RM)
Report of LEMAN 1. STAFFORD, JR. “" Ofiees MIAMI, FLA,
Dater OCT 10 1960 .
Field Office File # Miami (97~309) ay fite H: 97-4073
“Tile: = “CUBA LIBRE" he uN
(Post Office Box 2235, 7 HUN,
Miami 1, Florida). iy ijsy sous (is Standley. oY
; 4 4a GME crassited by 145)
Characten REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA, assified by ey.
Declassify on: 0, [BS
pli SO’ NG 6 fo0\—&{

heh 4- 20-0 Sfx.

| ee
‘On 6/9/60, MM T-1. reported receiv: nformation from a
Usually reliable source’ al Miami, had C$}
stated flights were being madé from Florida to Cuba

for the purpgse of. dropping bundles of newspapers
“Patria” and “Cuba Libre. interviewed by FBILS JBM] EA)
Miami, and stated he could furnigh no information re ,
allegation, although he-had heard rumors that such

flights had been made in 1959) Source at Colonial

Press, Miami, reports “Cuba Libre™ still being edited

by JOSE ACOSTA. Three thousand copies. of newspaper being
published weekly butACOSTA has requested reduction to 2,000
copies. Source states. ACOSTA destroys approximately half

of weekly printing, and ACOSTA believed to be making a

living from funds whieh he solicits for the purpose of

printing newspaper. Summaries of typical articles set

forth. . :

2 Pe

ALLEGATION REGARDING DROPPING OF NEWSPAPERS 7
~SPATRIA" AND "CUBA LIBRE

SEEREPERSE +

SIDEYOR
CLASAUFICATION
ACTIPR _
8 ve :
This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

\\Your agency; it and its contents-are not to be distributed outside your agency.

i | a

I
| NW 50953 Docld:32290595 Page 2



i (SECRED —
MM 97=309°

On June'9, 1960, MM T-l, another Government.
agency which conducts security and, intelligence inves-

tigations, reported it had received the following in- & YS (0 4)
t

formation from a usually, reliable source in Mexico City

ot
According to fis Siy

small planes
were making two or three trips from Plofida to Cuba
weekly in order to drop bundles of “Patria” and “Cuba
Libre," described as publications. Approximately five
thousand copies of the publications are printed weekly At”
and gent to different parts of Cuba. The newspapers Ob
ave printed at the Colonial Preas, 3265 N. W. 37th die
Street, Miami, Florida, by “JOSE/AGOSTA, RARARIAGtAs 7 ses

OPNGLAN, former,Cuban VicesPresident, and (FNU) MON-
TANE. _JOSE7 OSTA resides at_ 701.8. W. Sth. Street,

on Ausuat 11. 1960. (~ \CsJ
informed that he is a ~
U. S. citizen of Cuban descent who has been residing
in Miami for many years. He described himself ae a
chines, (he repairman by trade. Among other
things, urnished the following information:

)

“ae he had no knowledge that any plane
trips are being made from the United States to drop any
type of propaganda in Cuba. He said it is too risky and
dangerous in view of the restrictions which have been

motel apartment. 4, Mieni, Florida., 62)

) imposed on plane flights by the U. $. Border Patrol.
G Catt’ he had heard numerous rumors that some
f1L

8 were made in 1959, but he could furnish no
specific information, could identify no pilots, nor could
he give the names of airports which were reportedly
used. He could furnish no other pertinent information
concerning that matter.

Gl personally denied being engaged in any
type of revolutionary activity. He said he is residing

a2e

| HW 50953 DocId:32290595 Page 3


x

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59) Ne

ili : SECRET . -
“4 : : \, {TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF, JSTICE

ene FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 + INS, Miani (RM)
1.=.US Customs, Miami. (RM)
1. -_US. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)
1. = Ge2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.- (RM)
Copy to: E
1 = OSI, MacDill AFB, Tampa, Fla
Report of LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.
— OCT 1 0 1960 E
Field Office File # Miami (97-309)

Title: “CUBA LIBRE"
(Post Office Box 2235,
Miami 1, Florida)

Choracte: REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA.

‘Synopsis:

“Patria” and “Cuba. Libre.

+. (RM)

Office:

Bureau File #: 97-4073

uinge

- ONI, DIO, 6th ND, Charleston, S$. C. (RM)

MIAMI, FLA.

Classified by
Declassify on: OADR

296 66 ¢

On 6/9/60, MM T-1 reported re:
usually reliable source that Miami,. hadC $_)

stated flights were being madé from Florida to Cuba

~ ‘
@ation from a

interviewed by FBI,

for the purpgse ‘of ribs bundles of. newspapers Bi

Miami, and stated he could furnis

forth.

-Pe

no information re
allegation, although he had heard rumors that such

flights had been made in 1959. Seurce at Colonial

Press, Miami, reports “Cuba Libre" still being edited

by JOSE ACOSTA. Three thousand copies of newspaper being
published weekly but ACOSTA has requested reduction, to 2,000
copies. Source states ACOSTA destroys approximately half
of weekly printing, and ACOSTA believed.to be making a
living from funds which he solicits for the purpose of
printing newspaper. Summaries of typical articles set

ntents-are not to be distributed outside your agency.

(3 DETAMS:.. 1. ALLEGATION REGARDING DROPPING OF NEWSPAPERS
SS) Rtn eGALION REGARDING DROPPING OF NEWSPAPERS
Sue \e “PATRIA AND "CUBA LIBRE"

\

SEE coat
SIDE WR
CLASA#UFICATION

; SECRET acti

| either recofiméndations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

HW 50953 DocId:32290595 Page 4


fesssuazesctinae

SECRET

MM 97-309

On Jone 9, 1960, MM T+1, another Government - i
agency which conducts security and intelligence inves-
tigations, reported it had received the following in-
formation from a usually reliable source in Mexico City: Ou

According to IC cs)
[ | small planes
were making two ot three trips from Flérida to Cuba
weekly in order to drop bundles of "Patria" and "Cuba ;
Libre," described as publications. Approximately five | faa)
thousand copies of the publications are printed weekly \
and sent to different parts of Cuba. The newspapers \
are printed at the Colonial Presa, 3265 N. W. 37th ‘ai
Street, Miami, Florida, by JOSE ACOSTA, RAFAEL GUAS i
INCLAN, former Cuban Vice+Pregident, and (FNU) MON- i
TANE. JOSE ACOSTA resides at 701 S. W. 5th Street,
motel apartment 4, Miami, Florida. ($<) cA

On Auguet 11, 1960,| Cg}

L informed that he ia a
» S. Citizen of Cuban descent who has been residing :
in Miami for many years. He described himself as a |
television-radio repairman by trade. Among other
things, furnished the following information:

Bria he had no knowledge that any plane.
trips. are being made from the United States to drop any
type of propaganda in Cuba. He said it ig too risky and
dangerous in view of the restrictions which have been
imposed on plane flights by the U. S. Border Patrol. H
fl Baia he had heard numerous rumors that some 4

ights were made in 1959, but he could furnish no
specific information, could identify no pilots, nor could
he give the namee of airports which were reportedly
used, He could furnish no other pertinent information
concerning that matter.

personally denied being engaged in any
type of revolutionary activity. He said he is residing

| NW 50953 Docla:32290595 Page 5


: Gar ee 1 - Nasca
Beck ll

SAC, Meaad dae 22, 1369
Divecter, PEI (100+504)

AMEL-FiDEL CAGTRO ACLIVIT IS
a8 = GOEG :

: Enclosed Por gach office is. a copy .
letter dated 6-59-63 captionda Soudan founterrevolutiouary

ROTEL et

i ies in Blamie These) EAU fs : a
Promptly interview Patria Lore,

Guba Libre and Jose Acosta aré agbjocts of pouding : ,

ho «investigations in your office. (Pertinent: date developed

= Gongerning alleged pias flights from Movida to CulaJ@-r¢5)

shonld be: made able oo LEG, Gustens. amd Pad, Lowa. Afhiag |

b g Detessine fron the beeis for his allegationgs~ ST

en eal down partleweriy concemnmung-hle belief that th ry) t

Pea (coustarrevaiat on wid beigin in "Gabe: Lis, seins enlentne 7

JLAelG. Prom hig aay concrete daba ke may % eau %

the alleged Clandestine ain ‘base Qallng prepared BO aaa

Yucatan Previuee, Mexiee. Ger 60 yes ae
: Ho. Sdentid sania. uforgat ion concerning Grane |. ne |
| was. located: in Buf. Sis of inforsation furnished.

' ae Ef Grane is active in ‘auibh

News hunteey | oaks Bema tiat.
xy Shonld be given two Sage bied: es A

revere nek intent igo tor 6 OF

j \ SN mus 8 ht per grt Het By: ie DeRalt of a foreign {
‘ \4 : Oo! det And extent of his NZ
c ® Dolan iy Gheiecaatae $ ah its a : t

ae aw Yous check vith tafiel Dias Balart £

= oe
*S; h subghantishion of( [aKeaYS) “ 8
FF ore .
4

peeing’ p ae sites ee-the bare vet the ore

i iy eubstantiat eae
a 3 EGA Bein wines inguieles byseae S B
e ENS as Sa)
co: Pee at SANE =|
UN22 1960 Bb

Soli tere! 2, oe

£
gies _Libre a: - 97-hING (Patria Libre)
9 (Soge Acosta) :
(a2) ‘SECRET = SE NOwE Pace Two kegne oS

| HW 50953 Docld:32290595 Page 6


Sec

109-564 ‘

a BAC, Miami
a. Reg ANT-PIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

imiis ‘107A furnished information originating -with fa
Cutan exile in Miami. Ke allegedly stated tha

planeS wake tvo or three trips weekly from Florida te Bl
to drop bundles of Cuba and Patria Libre, anti-Castro ,
. publications, Jose Agoate jpsportedly is connected’ with ‘these
publications. ‘also’ stated that Diaz Barlart’ (with whoml$)
NY has been in tontd¢t) was a main figure in the Counter=

cy revolutionary armye also believes that counterrevolution
will begin in June, 1960, and that a clandestine fs
is being prepared in Mexico. We should interview

re

HW 50953 DocId:32290595 Page 7
