124-90137-10134] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90137-10134
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-96970-X
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE:
DATE: 02/28/1961
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
LIDIA FERREREIRO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: _ Secret.
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32337368 Page 1



NW 50953

—Memoranai

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOV

DATE: 2-28-61

supject: LIDIA- FERREREIRO 7 oP .
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA AE Bt A oo

On February 27, 1961, Cliff Carrico, Office o
Security, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised that th
following information had been received from a Cuban refugee
source of unknown reliability.

The subject reportedly deateceeeee
and recently arrived in Miami. ‘source advised that subject :
has been in contact with Hectoy, on the source characterized

Yearcia; wh
as a "Castro_agent." The. source furt, 3 ltt dicated that subject is
well known to Cubana Airline pilots uy) ye 7-99 \
b& SLD /KSe :

LASOIPT Gin CoA.

d to the attentiofJFIC) |

ACTION: “ Cl

Oo
The above information is being directe
of the Nationalities Intel igenge Section.
H 1)

CIA HAS NO OBJECT 0

zt Oy :
SJP:ban pon / cppres MADE
(4) oa, Df fata

G-7-1
1 - Mr. Donahoe aK PRIHO BY
1 - Liaison FOR REVIEY yf FRG er
1- Mr. Papich KP HSCA RE#/E8 REQ
i (SEE BUFILE #62-117290),

we Beane. CF C. Carrees, C4 : i
> fer pyr y a |
Tae

Al

Docld:32337368 Page 2
