/124-90138-10004| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/21/201
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

COMMENTS :

il

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90138-10004

HQ

CR 65-67173-20

Document Information

FBI
PAPICH
BRENNAN

10/15/1963
1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
ENRIQUE GARCIA ARMENTEROS,

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

09/28/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA.

MEMO

hoa

[aw 50953 Docld:32337735 Page 1


Sse Gen. REO, BO. 27
Belmont

UNITED STATES GC 2RNMENT

mat 1962 eo1NIOw \
c Tetson

Memorandum a :
[° Mr. D. J. Brennan, aA DATE: 10/18/63 Se mG.
rom ue 8.5. ten cor)

Go
@ @ WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. 7 7 Y—
SUBJECT: ENRIQUE GARCIA ARMENTEROS : ay
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA : AAA"
Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised the Liaison ent that her
agency finally has been able io might be able

to develop information in anSWer to the Bureau lead! transmitted to
CIA, She explained that the source's capability to be productive will
depend upon his resourcefulness to get into the appropriate areas.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention
of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

Ty
: oct 23 1988 :
® a
; /

ye SECREL

Fl CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO -
 aeieont DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
1 - Mr, Papich RELEASE GF CIA IMfFORMATION |
S5P:chs IN JHIS DOCUMENT, 2%¢&7 Toa ¥he
(©) abe Po 319-49 * iad

ss SL oe P 0
LASSIFIED BY SGP. we Laat
BECLASSIFY Ai aa be GIP Be O

3 ae
bh. 88 ocr 2s tagg

HW 50953 DocId:32337735 Page 2
