# 124-90110-10081

## Page 1

124-90110-10081

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90110-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR: 105-44214-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NY

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/26/1967

1

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

NIKO IPERIFANOIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953

DocId: 32334088

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

→ Mr. James

SECRET

SAC, New Tort: (105 16748)

REG- 47

Director, FBI (105011274)

86-1-96

NIKO IPERIFANOS,

akdo

IS - GREECE • CUBA

Grassh

Declassity Cas

1/26/61

SEDIEN

Ee report of SA Christopher J. Pappianou 12/30/60

captioned "Niko Iperifonos, akd., IS • Greece."

since most recent allegations against subject concern

dealings with Cuba, you should add Cuba to the character of

this case.

During your continued inquiries of subjects

you

should consider adding other nations to the character if

information developed warrants.

5-3048

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION SUCh aCtiOn.

1 * WFO

CLASSIFIED BY 5648 Sc0/RST

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

FEJemso

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

(5)

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT TRACKETS

(SEK)

K0 5-26-98

NOTE:

Subject is of Greek descent and reportedly holds Cuban citizensh

In recent years he engaged in barter deals by trading Cuban

sugar ana tobacco Jor munitions and other hardwareo

In additions

he is alleged to have been in contact with a Hungarian intelligence

agent in 1944 and with an Albanian intelligence officer in 1955.

During 1949 = 55 he reportedly lived in Italy where he engaged in

narcotics and arms snuggling

equities of the subject.s activities

in 1950 failed to indicate subject was engaged in subuersive

activities or activities inimical to the interests of the

United States.

In addition, New York has had infrequent contact

with the subject during post two years concerning Cuban matters.

He furnished New Vork information in such matters and claimed he

was employed by a firm that furnished financial backing for the

projects of the former Cuban (Batista) Government.

Tôlson a

Mohr..

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

Att INFOHI

HERCIN IS UR

WHERE SHOWN OTHE

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

DJAN 31 196,1

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

"MAILED Z?

JAN 2 5 1961

COMM-FBI

_copies made

2-76-78 536/2

FBINd by

othed requestol

(Sac Bur:- 492-117290)

SECRET

TELETYPE UNIT

SJW

HH 50953 DocId:32334088 Page 2

---

