124-10225-10114]

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/21/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION =
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10225-10114

HQ

105-114543-1ST NR 161.

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM.
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/19/1964

3

JURE, TRAINING CAMP, GUERRILLA WARFARE,
CLEWISTON, FL AREA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Confidential

1A; 4

Redact

05/08/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

v9
HW 50953 Docld:32299334

Page 1


Tg
CONFIDENTIAL &/29/64 ‘
\
ArnTE. \
LS 8
‘% if f iA INFORMATION ;
dL, WW HIS DUGUMENT, £ X06)0F Hh?
3e 96: Director, FBT (2+1565) ACA ULETS
FROM; GAG, Mbemi (105-2922) @) MKE 2-6-4

mY)
x URBUBS; Tveining of Cubans om Property of
xe Weir U. Williens, Polk Geusty, florida g
& Hay 3, 1964 g08-75
Sh ivuiual, secunrry - cuss acacy £ObS SUDUKse
BOS  sEyreaLrry MATTERS 5X

(ote -
Reference Bureau airtel co Tampa and wthentl K)

Gm 4/8/64, 1 639-8 edviced that LIS
POSADA, in charge of training for thésunta Revelu-
eloosgia Cubana (JURE), togethay with JURE meabare ~
MARE) HERUANDE2 and LUIS FERNANDEZ, bad reeantly
visited Glewistea, Florida, a town on the south chere
of Lake Okeechobes, whera they contacted the Commissioner
af Hendry County, He. CAMPBELL WALL, for the purpose of
opening @ training camp at the leeal siepect. Cemalactonsr
BALL wag reluctent to give pexmicsies to the Cubano for use
of the airport property at Clewioten, because the Federal,
Aviation Ageney might object. ia an effect co perduade
Comsissionexr WALL, the Cubans offered to regaiz the
buildings on the aixport preparty and to pey for uoa
o€ the alrport but BALL objected to thie .@ AN

6/17/64.

ay IS

ed

PY)
SPs
ORIGINAL FILEDIN Dee AOA GO ry

According te Mi 639-8, JURE, deapits the
eheteclen cenfxonting them at Clewloton, wore detex~
mined te eptabligh soma training oparatioss in the * ;

ALL INFORMATION CONTALNED

near future. The soures atated that follewing the

Cae Bureau (RM)

2 ~ Tampa (165-2393) (aN) BS ff EFS -
: 3 > Hlemi (2-L05~3922) Bos
(105-6661 JURE) AB JUN 24 1984

56 stay es CONFIDENT

HW 50953 Docld:32299334 Page 2


©
Co

CONFIDENTIAL

Wet 105-3922

soatact with Commissioner BALL, the masbers of JURE
proceeded te en established training canp Socated
Senctere betwasn Clewiston and Taupa, Flowide, about
80 miles from Clewiston. ‘the souzea further aivised
Chac JURB had 2 teams ef 15-20 men per been, Beady co
undertake training in guarcille warfare. Tao dine
atgucters were to be Cubano who hed been dm the 0.8,
4cmy; the geurce alse believed thar 2 or 3 Acseican
ioateucters alghe be involved. @) }

Also on 4/8/84, wi 639-6 advised chat sung

hae a bank secount at tha Central Bonk and feuse
Miami, and the accome might be in the wane of JERE ox
posdibly in the esme of LUIS POSADA. ‘The source Stated
that MARTO HERNANDEZ, one of the JURE uembexs whoa ths

t Mg camp, resides st 7146 6.H.

On 5/25/64, Vix, KENRETH BLONDE, an officer
at the Conte] Benk end feast Company; amd, Florida,
advised that there was ao aceeunt at the back ia the
mane of Junta Revaluriensria Cubana or Cabana Revollu~
tlenary Junte, or JURE. He advieed LUIS ZOSADA of ALBA
N.Y. 34th Avenue, Mand, had pened & Spectel Account ta
Hageh, 1964. The xecord indicated POGABA hed servad in
the 0.8. Azay.

On 6/12/64, Mx. BLONDU was. xecontaeted, at
which time he mada avaliable tha monthly Statement of
POSABA's account, $4~69-296+2, together with the checks
iegued by POSADA ducing the previous month, taly §
check had been dea on the account @uxing the monthly
pexiod ending 6/4/64, at which time o balance of $18.50
temained ia the sceeune. The checks were encle payable

a

CONFIDENTIAL

*

| NW 50953 Docla:32299334 Page 3



‘MM 405-8922 COB BeAr

te Demace (cashed at Chicago « possibly 6 cradit card
account) in the emount of $61.06) WIULTAM B, ScHuss
Sex $30; Standard Gil Company for $36.89; Household
Binaace of Columbus, Ceorgia for $30, and Jackson Bali
Apartments for $74.43,

Qn Juae 19, 1964 |"RoeRy” romans. Ps, Mien,
was contacted and defered the fact the tusindag
opesation in captioned case appeared ce teseter stl.

Qt. ROTEL Jacaced that whether ox not the training

ved JURE was not a wacter of operational gnaeer

xo eager offies, and therefore bie offiee inte |
ebjection to PRE investigation of tha matter: a nme :
On June 19, 1964 #1 639-9 wae reegntncted,
et vhich time he advieed he no longer had <loge aggo~
elation with JURE at Miami, end therefore wae uninformed
@8 te the current training operation by JURE, however,
he beldeved thar the training camp deserthed in the
eaption ef this erase identical with tha one he had.
Yeported on. 4/8/46. icy

c
The Miami Office will interview perscas asgo- i
elated with JURE fox infowmecion conceming the military 1
exeising Of JURE is Florida and in particular on the

property of Wed Uy Williang in Polk County, Florida. er
{
7
COULIDEV yr
NS CONFIDENTIAL

| oe fll v

| HW 50953 DocId:32299334 Page 4
