# 124-10199-10408

## Page 1

124-10199-10408

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10408

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-66742-1ST NR 237

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, BR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/31/1964

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

EGAN, JAMES W., RYAN, JAMES G., BKG, B/F INT, LCN

MEMBERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

19.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32288632 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

JAI CONHIBENTIAL

Director, FBI

1/31/64

SAN MO/2R3E

Legat, Bera (105-270) (P)

GIAS POS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SITICATION

JANES

EGAN DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

JAVES

EVAN RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

ExCEpT BRACKETS

on 1/30/64 CARE S. PETTY,

KP 2-2-98

Office of the Special

Assistant (covert Cla), the Embassy,

matson which has been made the subject of a letterhead

Bern, furnished intox E

memorandul, & coples of shich are enclosed. l

Tol in the enclosed nenorandun is OSA

and the

menorandun 1s classified confidential siace

the original

information was so classified. $S

5668

In additos, PETTY

mentioned that when a check had

been made by his agency with the Bureau concerning subjects

-the following information had been obtained: &

EGAN had been the subject in an ITSP case

ing fraudulent checks and bonds.

7-15-98

CLASSIFIED BY _

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

RYAN was on probation on

an Incone tax violation, bad been o subjeet in an Al case,

and was a potential witness under

Marshal, in Denver,

protection of the u.s.

colorado.d(

Both ICAN and RYAN bad boen

allowed to go to

Switzerland on & business venture. It was considered that

EGAN might possibly develop sone

intornation concernins

bank accounts o1 l. gangsters in SwitzerLande Sly

*(u)

The Burenu is requested to furnish any pertinent

material concerning these individuals for dissemination to

Interested U.S. and Swiss agencies.

Bureau (Enci. G)

(2 - Liaison) (Encl.)

(1 - Denver)

tefinite

501153200

GIATE VOI #

LONE A HEI

6 FEB: 261964

Exemp

PROPRIATE AGENCIES

*ADVISEDR

SLIP(ST OF

OUTING

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE_

10

14

182=46742

NOT RECORDED

145 FEB 20 1964

PION CONTAINER

INFO

NEIN IS UNCLASSITIED

NN 70953

DocId: 32288632 Page 2

ORNAMESE

---

