# 124-90102-10239

## Page 1

124-90102-10239

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90102-10239

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-258736-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

ITTLE :

DATE:

07/31/1974

'PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS:

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 50953

17

DocId: 32332592

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 1-7-72)

FEDERA! BUREAU OF IN ESTIGATION.

.*..

1559

REPORTINÙ OFFiCE

MISMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

O-TE

7/31/74

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/15/71 - 7/15/74

REPORT MADE BY

PE HAS TO OB'ECTION TO

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

TYPEDBI

t hm

• ANCHOR

D501

-ORNA OARACTER OF CASE

ACCION CUBANA

IN THIS DUUMENT. EXCOP1 BRACKETS

(CUBAN ACTION (EC) 4P 1-27-48

IS - CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTER;

EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARY DEVICES

LAFUILATLUA CONTAINED

# 1S UBSLAGGIFIED

SHORN

WHERE

CONVIC.

REFERENCES:

Miami report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.. 3/14/74.

Bureau letter to Miami. 3/25/7÷.

Bureau airtel to Miami,

6/17/74.

Miami airtel to Bureau, 6/7/74.

3-6-48

TY: 5608 51015512-

Classified by_

SIES/ECI

Declagrity on: gADR (JFK)

NY.5J,NK

LEAD

MEXKO, BUENOS AIRES, CARACAS

PARIS, MADRID, OTTAWA

MIAM!

• AT MIAMI

JFK)

FLORIDA

TV. H. Nased

TOR INFO 8/2424 BY VHN/r'm.

Will continue to investigate activities of ACCIOM CUBANA

in order to identify members and to determine if this organization is

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

• NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES INO

2

PAPErOVED

COPIESMADE!

0=

2аu (205-258736 (RA))

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-258736-11

REF ES

(Additional Copis Cover Page B)

AUG 5 1974

3-Miami

(2- 105-21947)

(1- 105- 2856) (ORLAIIDO BOSCH)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwi.

By

58 AUG 2 61974

A.

COVER PAGE

Dec's made oHai, 4 for SSC-I reveaur

s. F-BIHQ jer Veguest 7 6013 (3a)

+56148213172

HH 50953 DooId: 32332592

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-21947

:

Copies Made (continued)

1- U.S. Secret Service, Miami

(RM)

I- NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

1- 109th Mi. I. Group, Miami

(RM)

(RM)

1-[CIA, Miami]G) (RM)

1- U.S. Coast Guard, Miami

1- U.S. Border Patrol, Miami

1- U.S. Customs, Miami

(RM)

(RM)

(RM)

I- INS, Miami

(Ri1)

1- OSI, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida (RM)

-

LEAD (continued) .

involved in any violations of law or other activities inimical

to the U.S. and will attempt to locate and apprehend its leader,

ORLANDO BOSCH, as soon as possible.

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report is classified Canfidantial in order to

protect confidential sources.

INFORMANKS

IMM T-1 is MM 1337-S.

MM T-2 iS MM 1550-KS.

NA4 5-3 18 ERA IS) U)

MM T-4 is NK 5173-PSI.

B.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

HH 50953

DocId: 32332592

Page

---

## Page 4

ECRET

FD-204 (5yev, 3-3-59)

CONEY

UR ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1-U.S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida (RM)

1-NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

(Ri1)

1-109th M.I.Group, Miami, Florida

(RM)

1- INS, Miami (RM)

1- OSI, Patrick Air Ford

Base, Florida (RM)

1-CIA, Miami, Florida

(PM)

Copy t0:

1-J.S.Coast Guard, Miami, Florida

I-U.S.Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

1-U.S.Customs, Miami, Florida

Report of:

Date:

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

(RM)

(RM)

(Ri1)

Office:

Miami, Florida

July 31, 1974

Field Office File #:

105-21947

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

105-258736

ACCION CUBANA

RELEASE OF CIA iNFORMATION

(CUBAN ACTION) (AC)

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT THE BRACKETS ABOVE

OTHERWISE

RP. 1-27-98

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTER;

EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARY DEVICES

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ALL INFORHATION CONTAINED

Information set forth concerning alleged members of ACCION

CUBANA.

6/18/74 issue of "The Miami News" carried article

by reporter HILDA INCLAN concerning interview of ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA, who claimed to be leader of ACCION CUBANA and claimed

responsibility for acts of terrorism including bombing of Cuban

Consulates in Latin America, as well as other acts of violence.

Miami newspaper "Diario las Americas" received letter from

ACCION CUBANA Offering sum of three million dollars for assassi-

nation of FIDEL CASTRO. ACCION CUBANA also announced sale of

bonds for purpose of raising three million dollars to carry on

its activities. On 6/25/74, U. S. Board of Parole, Washington,

D.C., issued warrant charging BOSCH with violating terms of his

parole.

Efforts under way to locate and apprehend BOSCH.

36-98

- ₽ .

CLASSINED BY: 5668 SID IKSR

5/23/05

Classified

by 5668548/GCL

( C)

Declassify On DADR/(SE)

LOUISSIFY ON: X

(JFK)

SOURCES WHOSE IDENTITIES ARE CONCEALED

HEREIN HAVE FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORIIALION

IN THE PAST EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE NOTED.

are not some doributed outside you mendations nor conclusiosE conclusigsECR'ST.)

* is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

'U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1970

• 0-1405=55.)

HH 50953 DooId:32332592 Page 4

---

