# 124-10282-10357

## Page 1

124-10282-10357

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10357

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-238

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

PAPICH, S. J.

BRENNAN, D. J. JR.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/02/1966

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

185

DooId: 32302845

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 - Alderson

SAC, New York (100-42479)

Anector

X-10

SUSAN REILIGHAN FRANK

IS • CH"

FBI (100-339235) - 238

2-10-66

Rebulet 1-21-66.

On 1-28-66 CIA advised that CIA had contacted its

source "SUGAR"

" tho reported that the subject ie not known

to him and furthernore, he is not aware of subject's travel

plans.

"SUGAR" could not come up with any reason for subject

naving in her possession has mine me mooresse

The above is being furnished for your information

and future guidance.

LLA: WISC

(4) 1

NOTE:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINET

HEREIA 23 UNICLASSIELOD

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OIHERWISE

The subject, who traveled recently to London, Englard,

has been

active in pro_ Chinese cormunist activities in

the

U.s. and

reportedly is a contact of Chinese communist intelligence

in England.

prior to subject's leaving New

York on her recent

witrip,

she made inquiry concerning address of Richard Gibson,

Tormer head or fair. Play for cuba committee in the us who

is currently a CIA source in London,:

England, utilizing the

code name' SUGAR." |S)

a sudde

4. 5. A.

1/15/94)

Classified by

Beclassiv an' DADE (JFK)

MAILED 27.

Tolson

DeLooch

Mohr

FEB 9 - 1966

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

COMM-FBI

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Wick'.

Tele, Room

Holmes -

Condy DO FEB 1966

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32302845 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

OSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT SECRET

Memorandum

Mr. D. J. Brennan, Sx.NM

DATE: February 2, 1966

FROM

: S. J. Papich

Tolson

DeLoach -

Mohr _

Wick

Casper -

Callahan ..

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter•-

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT: SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CHINA

5-Coppsy

Cal Tenney, CIA, furnished the following to the

Liaison Agent. on January 28, 1966. (5)

LEOLDE TIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CIA contacted its source, "SUGAR" who reported that

the subject is not known to him and furthermore he is not aware

of subject's travel plans.

The source could not come up

any reason for subject having in her possession the name and

address of "SUGAR." G

ACTION:

attention

The above information is being directed to the

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP: rab jab

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Liaison

•I - Mr. Papich

(Anderson)

LhA: wits. 2-10-66

#: 100-339235.238

NO FEB A 01 1966

EX.102

1l5/97

Classified by SeEmalaL

Declassif on• DADF (FK)

• SECRET

NH 50953

DooId: 32302845

Page 3

---

