# 124-10280-10076

## Page 1

124-10280-10076,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER:

124-10280-10076

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2441

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 11/09/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, ASSOC, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA

AIRLINER

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

06/08/1998

STATUS

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953

DocId: 32302139 Page 1

---

## Page 2

10.75

NOSTLEIS

FACTIONS

ELITIONS

SEEKEr (When ried in)

ö.

TELLIGENC

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

IN

093663

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE 1 OF 5 PAGES

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INR

JCS/MC

(DIA) CIA/NMCC

SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS

FBY

HA HAD

SPIDERATONSTION.

TOclassified by

Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

DECLASSIFICATION

AND/ORategory SB (1)) (2).

positing fiermine Dare of Automatic Declassification

RELEASE OF CIA IMFORMAFUITHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPt BRACTS

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

1-2248.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SLD KSR

SECRET

2-21-98

CITE TDFIR DB=315/11216-76

(JFK)

MEDERAL GOVERNMENT

DIST 9 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRETE WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS--D IS SEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFURMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY!

VENEZUELA

ILL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED ALE DETLASSIFIED

DO!

: EARLY NOVEMBER 1976

DATE 7-21-94 BYSP& MAC/ISR

JFKL

SUBJECT: POTENTIAL EMBARRASSMENT FOR THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

DUE TO POSSIBLE EXPOSURE OF PROOF THAT RICARDO MORALES

ACQ

NAVARETTE IS A VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIAL

.:VENEZUELA, CARACAS (I-4 NOVEMBER 1976) FIELD NO.

7531

RMVO58

SOURCE

SeE BELOW Wen

SUMMARY: BESPITE VENEZUELAN: GOVERNMENT DENIALS, CUBAN-BORN

RICARDO MORALES

NAVARETIE IS A HIGH OFF TAE

in a sis.

IF +45 109-12-228-

REC-87.

15441

DIRECTORATE FOR

THE SERVICES OF INTE

STERENCE AND PREVENTION DS

FURTHERMORE, HELIS CURRENTLY. ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN THE INVESTIGAT TROV 15 1976

OF THE 6 OCTOBER BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER

AND HE HAS HAD PREVIOU

CONTACTS WITH SOME OF THE SUSPECTS

IN THE BOMBING. A VENEZUELAN NEWSMAN

1C

HAS A COPY. OF THE ORIGINAL GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCEMENT. OF MORALES'

404 gon

DISIP ASSIGNMENT, WHICH

HE IS ATTEMPTING

TO HAVE REPRINTED IN THE

LOCAL SS DEC

VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS BELIEVE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF

119763

SECRET

NH 50953

D001d:32302139

Page 2

---

## Page 3

POKA

280-10076

3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

-- COPIES MADE, DATE

----BY,

FOR nevika Nt rola Aid/UR DELIVERY

TO HSCA RE NEQUEST DATED

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290);

NOV 1

IN 093663

197%

RECEIVED

INTELLIGENCE. ONY.

TDAR DB-315/11216-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND NETHODS INVOLVED

PAGE OF 5 PACES

SECRET™

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classifcation)

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT. WOULD PROVE EMBARRASSING TO THE GOVERNMENT, AND.

IN AN EFFORT TO COUNTER THIS POTENTIAL DIFFICULTY, HAVE ISSUED A

BACK-DATED CIRCULAR OSTENSIBLY RELIEVING MORALES OF HIS DISIP

ASSIGNMENT, END SUMMARY,

" 1, IFIELD COMMENT: THERE HAS BEEN CONSIDERABLE PRESS COVERAGE

CONCERNING RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE, A CUBAN BORN.

NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN, MORALES' STATUS WITH THE VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENY CAME INTO QUESTION WHEN THE FOREIGN PRESS REPORTED THAT

MORALES IS A HIGH LEVEL VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIAL AS WELL AS

BEING CONNECTED WITH VARIOUS AGENCIES OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERN

MENTIUSG), VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS HAVE ALTERNATELY DENIED.

AND ADMITTED MORALES' ASSOCIATION WITH VENEZUELAN SECURITY

ORGANIZATIONS, FOR THIS INFORMATION SEE EMBASSY CARACAS TELEGRAM

12667 0F 26 OCTOBER 19760}

2.

SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 3. AND 4: A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

EMPLOYEE WHOSE POSITION GIVES HIM ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS ON

VARIOUS SUBJECTS, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

_THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS,

INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

3. DESPITE DENTS BY SOME -OFFICIALS OF THE VENEZUEL AN GOVERN

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32302139 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NORAA

9-75

3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

IN 093663

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

TDFIRDB-315/11216-76

PAGE/S/OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(clausification)

MENT, RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE IS CHIEF OF THE FOREIGN ESPOINAGE

DIVISION OF THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP), THIS SECTION IS KNOWN AS

DIVISION 54, FURTHERMORE, MORALES IS HEADING THE VENEZUELAN

INVESTIGATION OF THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER!

IN THIS CAPACITY; MORALES RECEIVES AND MAINTAINS ALL INFORMATION

ON THE CUBANA CASE, INCLUDING

INFORMATION WHICH CONNECTS HIM,

MORALES, WITH THE CUBAN EXILE MOVEMENT AND INDIVIDUALS IMPLICATED

IN THE CUBANA CASE, (FIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER

REPORT ON

MORALES' CONNECTIONS WITH CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

BOSCH.

WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN CARACAS IN CONNECTION

WITH

THE CUBANA AFFAIRO SEE VES%514 TDEIRDE 3154182656-764

OF 15

OCTOBER, FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE. I

4. AS HEAD OF THE INVESTIGATING TEAM, MORALES ISSUES PRESS

RELEASES ON THE CASE UNDER THE ALIAS "COMMISSIONER JIMENEZ." IN

ORDER TO AVOID DIRECT CONTACT WITH NEWSMEN, MORALES IS NOT

UTILIZING HIS USUAL DISIP OFFICES, BUT RATHER MAINTAINS SEPARATE

FACILITIES.

5. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 69I A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE

CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS, HIS RELIABILITY

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302139 Page 1

---

## Page 5

780-10076

FORM 3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

IN 093663

TOFIR DB-315/11216-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE L

OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED VEN'

6: DURING THE WEEK OF I NOVEMBER, DI SIP DIRECTOR RETIRED

GENERAL RAUL

GIMENEZ

GAINZA SAID THAT MORALES IS STILL

WORKING AT DISIP AND IS ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN THE CUBANA INVESTI

GATION. IN AN EFFORT TO MITIGATE ANY FURTHER PUBLICITY CONCERN-

ING MORALES AND HIS CONNECTION WITH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT,

GIMENEZ SAID ME HAS UFFICIALLY RELIEVED MORALES AS CHIEF OF

DIVISION 54. THE RECORDS ANNOUNGING MORALES' REMOVAL HAVE BEEN

BACK-DATED TO 1 OCTOBER.

Ven

GIMENEZ SAID THAT HE IS AWARE THAT CIRO

CHIEF EDITOR OF "BOHEMIA" MAGAZINE, HAS IN HIS POSSESSION A

DISTY CIRCULAR ANNOUNCING THE

APPOINTMENT OF MORALESAS CHIEF

OF DISIPIS DIVISION 54, MEDINA, GIMENEZ SAID, IS ATTEMPTING TO

HAVE THE CIRCULAR REPRINTED IN THE VENEZUELAN PRESS, BUT THUS

FAR, HAS BEEN UNABLE TO FIND AN OUTLET WILLING TO PUBLISH IT.

8. MORALES, GIMENEZ SAID, WAS APPOINTED TO DIS IP ON

THE RECOMMENDATION OF ORLAND

GARCIAL A SECURITY ADVISER

TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

PEREZ.

THE CIRCULAR APPOINTING

MORALES IS SIGNED BY GIMENEZ AND ACCORDING TO GIMENEZ, WAS APPROVED

#BY OCTAVIO

EP:A

GE, MINISTER-OF INTERIOR, AN PRESIDENT

PEREZ.

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32302139 Page 5

---

