# 124-10278-10398

## Page 1

|124-10278-10398

÷

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10398

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-79

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/18/1963

* PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, MEMBERS, PLANE, BOATS, RAID, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, MEMO, LHM

49.1

NH 50953

14

DooId: 32301563

Page

1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

REO- 45

1 - 11a1901

1 - Nasca

(NT) 97-4476 7 9

EX-115

Late:

219-48

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SLO/ER

DECLASSIFY ON: 25%

To:

December 20, 1963

ALL INFORMATIOY CONTAINED

nERtiN IS UN

ASSIFIED

Director

DATE 91

-BYSPERSA/SCL

Bureau of Intelligence and Research

Department of State

ACE.

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTONAL DE, RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

NEUTRALILL MATILAS

SEE DONE COM DONA O

IN THIS DOCUMENT

EXCEPT FOe BRACES

nKH 26-98

Reference is made to our letter dated December 18,

1963, with enclosure.

Attached for each recipient is a copy of a

memorandum dated December 20, 1963.

Inis will contim intomation oruly tumishea to

Mr. E. N. Powers, Department of State Kir. Bay Wotring,S

Central Intelligence Agency Nr. Lester Johnson, Bureau of

Customs; Mr. James T. Murphy, Federal Aviation Agency; and

Captain William Edwards, Defense Intelligence Agency,

Mr. A. J. Decker of this Bureau on December 18, 1963.

We are endeavoring to obtain additional infornation

we to deterine ants it be pee testers to e

sec -plents.

Enclosure

2 2 DEC 2 3

Sp8 MINe GAT

COMM - FBI

Tolson:

Belmont

Mshe

Casperi

Ballch an

Contadi

DeLoach:

Evans

Cale

Rosen

Tavel -

Tavel

Trotter

Tole: Hook

Walkes

Gordvi

1 - Directori (Enclosure)

Central Intelligence Agency

MER-D HEY

Attention: Deputy

Director:

Plans

• VHN :klw

(14)

OSURE

DEE S0

| Sa bil .23

70 1964

MAIL ROOME

TELETYPE UNIF

WEN!

MW 50953

DocId:32301563

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Domestie Inteli gence Division

Informative Note

12-18-63

Miami Offloe sourge, Alpizar, approached

during past week by leader of Movimtento

Insurrectonal de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(MIRR), anti-Castro group, to pilot plane on

bombing raid Cuba scheduled for ourrent week.

Plane to be flown from Florida to

Bimini,

Bahana Islands (British territory), by

American pilot on ostensible pleasure flight

and Alptzar and orew members to travel to

Bimint in boat. Alptzar identified Johnson

individual who has rented aircraft to be

used on raid and positively identified plane

involved. Johnson previously involved in

operations MIRR. Charles Bush owner of plane

previously rented planes for similar operation

Miant has furnished pertinent data to

Customs and Federal

Autation Agency (FAA),

Bohemanton authorities lions, and Bureck has

disseminated to interested agencies at head

quarters level. Alpizar continuing efforts

to identify boats and Customs will exeroise

its seizure powers to prevent departure of

boats and plane if necessary. Attached

teletype aduises Alpizar will make practice

flight 12-19-63 and final practice flight

12-20-63. Weather favorable and possible

raid will ocour this weekend. We are following

closely and information in attached

disseminated 12-18-63 FAA, Customs,

states

CIA,

Defense Intelligence Agency and

John Il. Davitt, Department attorney.

AJD

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

97-4474-79

DAREN IS UNSCLASSIFIED

DATE 9.

11315

MW 50959 DooId:32301563 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ECN24

Stat:

XCIA :

Kay Wotring

Cüstoms :

bester Johnson

PAA:

DEA:

James T. Murphy

capt. Wm. EdwARds

SECRE?

97-4474-79

904-1916

HM 50953 DoeId:32301563

Page 1

---

## Page 5

Domestio Intelzigence Division

Informative Note

AL TITORMANT ON CONTRATNED

SECRET

ASS/TTED 1X22-18-63

Minord So

Miami Office source, Alpizar, approached

during past week by leader of Mouimiento

Insurrecional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(MIRR), anti-castro group,

to pilot plane on

bombing raid Cuba scheduled for current week.

Plane to be Slown pron Florida to Bimini,

Bahama Islands (British territory), by

Americar piLot on ostenatole pleasure fright

and Alotzar and crew members to travel to

in boat. Alpizar identified Johnson as

indluidual who has rented aircraft to be

used on raid and positively identified plane

involved. Johnson previously involved in

operations MIAh.

Charles Bush owner of plane

previously rented planes for similar operation.

Miami has furnished pertinent data to

Bahamanian authorities, customs and Federal

Aviation Agency (FAA),

Miami, and Bureau has

disseminated to interested agencies at head

quarters level. Alpizor continuing efforts

to identify boats and Custons will exeroise

its seizure powers to prevent departure of

boats and plane if necessary. Attached

teletype advises Alpizar will make prootice

flight 12-19-63 and final practice flight

12-20-63. Weather favorable and possible

raid will ocour this weekend. He are following

olosely and information in attached

disseminated 12-18-63 FAl, Customs,

States

CIA, Defense Intelligence Agency and

John 1. Dauitt, Department attorney

2/27

AJD

ALL INFORMATIOX CONTANED

HEREIN IS UNSCASSIFIED

DATE 9/4/85)

BYGI BJA/beL

97-4474-79

(UFR

SECRET

1N 50953 DocId:32301563 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRED

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

(NI) 97-4474

December 20, 1963

139032

ALL INSONNACION CONTAINED

HEREIN 16 UNCLASS 13 LED

EXCEPT KHORE SHOWM

OCHERWISE

MOVIMTENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

2/18195 SpoMACST

Classified ly 5/601B/CCL

Declassify on: OADR9/n/85

(ORK)

Prevlous information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization is planning to carry out

a bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini in the Bahama Islands.

The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid is located

at the Broward International Airport, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

On December 18, 1963, our source in this matter

who has furnished reliable information in the past advised

that a practice flight in the Aero Commander airplane,

number N2624B, located at the above-mentioned airport and

scheduled to be used on the raid, was to be made on December 19.

1963, and that a final practice flight was scheduled to be made

on December 20, 1963. No practice flight will be made over

Bimini as Charles Bush, the owner of the airplane, is opposed

to it for security reasons.

Orlando Bosch Avila, head of the captioned organization,

plans to have a quantity of propaganda leaflets dropped from

the airplane during the reid over Cuba. Bosch and his

associates have described a boat to be used in this operation

as being 28 feet long with a bridge on top. With reference to

this boat, our source has learned that William Johnson, a

United States citizen, pilot and businessman who was involved

in arranging for the airplane to be used on this raid, is

also involved in arranging for the use of the above-mentioned

boat.

Tolson

Balmonti

authorities have been advised. (S)

Mohr:

Casper

Callah aria

VHN skIw Klu.

Conradi

(16)

DeL back

9714474-79

Evans

NOTE :

Cale

Original to Yeagley separately.

Copies to State,

CIA,

Rosen

Sullivon e

Army, Navy, Air Force, DIA, Customs,

INS, FAA, Coast Guard.

Copies

Tavel

Trottes #

separately being furnished John Crimmins, Coordinator Cuban Affairs,

Tale. Room a

Holmes:

Department of State, by Courler Service and [Stott. (5)

Gandy

MAIL ROOML

TELETYPE UNIT

HW 50950

DocId: 32301563 Page 6

---

## Page 7

163 C

'$$

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSLFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU DE INVESTICATION

W. &. DEPARTMENT OF JUSUCE

COMMURICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 81963 PL

TELETYPE

T612.

Mr.

Mix.

1930/63

URGENT

12-18-63

9-14

TO DIRECTOR

197-44741

PM EST

21795 Spingon

Classified by M687A GaL

Mios

FRise Gaxdy

Declassify on: OADRules

FROM-

SAC, MIAMI /105-2855/

MOVIMIENTO IASURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

TANANAL SECURIT

MIRR/| IS

DASH CUBA, MiNestRality MAtteR

Tarmall

REBUTEL ANDMIAMI TEL DATED DECEMBER SEVENTEEN, SIXTYTHREE.

TODAY MIAMI HAD DISCUSSION WITH JOHN KINNEY AND HIS SUPERIOP, FAY

FedeRA AVIATION PREMEY

LINEHAN, SUPERVISING INSPECTOR,/EAR, AND EDWARD FICKIE, U. So CUSTORS,

WHO IS HANDLING INSTANT CASE FOR CUSTOMS, AND REITERATED BUREAU/S

POSITION THAT PREVENTION OF RAID IS WITHIN JURISDICTION OF CUSTOMS AND

FAA, AND CONSEQUENTLY THIS OFFICE NOT MAKING ANY REQUESTS FOR GROUND-

ING INSTANT PLANE. LINEHAN STATED FAA HAS INVESTIGATIVE POWERS BUT

NO POLIGE POWERS AND IF PLANE IS GROUNDED IT WOULD HAVE TO BE BY

AZICA ARE CATORS AGENTO LINIAN STATED PA HOUD COVINE deY

COOPERATE, WITHIN SCOPE ITS JURISDICTION. FICKIE ADVISED THAT U. S•

CUSTOMS IS PREPARED TAKE PROPER ACTION AND WILL COORDINATE WITH FAA.

TODAY EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, /PROTECT/, ADVISED THAT HE MET LAST

NIGHT AND THIS MORNING WITH DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR, WHO

GAVE HIM SEVENTYTIVE DOLLARS FOR

PRACTICE FLIGHT WITH CHARLES BUSH/S

AERO COMMANDER AT •BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIPPORT ON DECEMBER NINETEEN.

A RENAL

TWENTY & SIXTYTHREE BY ALPIZAR.

END PAGE ONE

Tel tam

co: A

5 JAN 9 1964

Olives

SECRET

NY 50953 DocId:32301563. Page

7

---

## Page 8

IT SECRED

PAGE TWO

TAKE PLACE AS CHARLES BUSH IS OPPOSED TO THIS FOR SECURITY REASONS•

WEATHER CONDITIONS IN MIAMI AREA ARE NOW FAVORABLE.

BOSCH PLANS TO HAVE QUANTITY OF PROPAGANDA LEAFLETS DROPPED

DURING RAID OVER CUBA•

ALPIZAR, WHO HAS MECHANICAL SKILL, HAS OFFERED TO CHECK OUT

MOTORS ON BOAT TO BE USED PRIOR TO ITS DEPARTURE AND HE BELIEVES HIS

OFFER WILL BE ACCEPTED BY BOSCH• BOSCH AND HIS ASSOCIATES NOW DESCRIBE

BOAT AS BEING TWENTYEIGHT FEET LONG WITH A BRIDGE ON TOP. ALPIZAR

HAS LEARNED THAT WILLIAM JOHNSON IS INVOLVED ALSO IN ARRANGING FOR

USE OF THIS BOAT.

(GNU)

MIAMI HAS ADVISED (GREGG BENTLEY, SPECIAL BRANCH, U. S. CUSTOMS,

AND OTHER LOCAL FEDERAL AGENCIES RE PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WILL

CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON WITH THEM. LETTERHEAD MEMO SUIT-

ABLE FOR DISSEMINATION WILL BE SUBMITTED TWELVE NINETEEN SIXTYTHREE•

BUREAU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS•

END AND ACK PLS

WA

9-22 PM OK FBI WA. LAS

TU AND DISC

MIX

CAT

By-

SECRET

97-4474-79

Ai any

NW 50953 DooId: 32301563. Page

---

## Page 9

VANIKIW

CON

CAN VESTREATION

OF JUSTIC

IONS SECTiON

DEC1 8 1963

TELETYPE

SECRET

Classified by SAB B

OADR Y

Declassify on:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCEPT WUESE SHOEN

OTHEP !TCT!

¿ 1z

URGENT

12-18-63

9-14

PM EST RM

TO DIRECTO

19744474/

D. E.

*sis art

Gardeni

FROM SAGA

MIAMI /105-28551

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

MIRR/, IS DASH CUBA, NM

REBUTEL ANOMIAMI TEL DATED DECEMBER SEVENTEEN, SIXTYTHREE.

TODAY MIAMI HAD DISCUSSION WITH JOHN KINNEY AND IS SUPERIOR, FAY

LINERAN, SUPERVISING INSPECTOR, FAA, AND EDWARD FICKIE, UA S+ CUSTOMS,

WHO IS HANDLING INSTANT CASE FOR CUSTONS, AND REITERATED BUREAU/S

POSITION THAT PREVENTION OF RAID IS WITHIN JURISDICTION OF CUSTOMS AND

FAA, AND CONSEQUENTLY THIS OFFICE

: NOT MAKING ANY REQUESTS FOR GROUND-

INSTANT PLANE, LINEHAN STATED FAA HAS INVESTIGATIVE POVERS BUT

S NO

POLICE POVERS AND IF PLANE IS GROUNDED IT WOULD HAVE TO BE BY

ACTION OF CUSTOMS AGENCY.

LINEHAN STATED. FAA WOULD CONTINUE TO FREELY

SSCOOPERATE VITHIN SCOPE ITS JURISDICTION. TICKIE ADVISED THAT U. SA

MOCUSTOMS IS PREPARED TAKE PROPER ACTION AND WILL COORDINATE VITH FAN.

TODAY EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, /PROTECT/, ADVISED THAT HE MET LAST

§NIGHT AND THIS MORNING WITH DR- ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MERR, WHO

GAVE HIM SEVENTYZIVE DOLLARS FOR A PRACTICE FLIGAT WITH CHARLES BUSH/S

AERO COMMANDER AT- BROWARD INTERNATIONÃL AIRPORT ON DECEMBER NINETEEN.

FINAL PRACTICE FLICHT IS ALSO NOW SCHEDULED FOR NIGHT OF DECEMBER

LTWENTY, SIXTYTHREE BY ALPIZAR-

PRACTICE FLIGHT ÓVER BIMINI KILL NOT

(ENG).

isel

2º SECRED

12-20-63

UHN. KI W

12-20-63

47-4474-79

AW 50953 DooId:32301563

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRED,

PAGE TWO

TAKE PLACE AS CHARLES BUSH IS OPPOSED TO THIS FOR SECURITY REASONS•

WEATHER CONDITIONS IN MIAMI AREA ARE NOW FAVORABLE*

BOSCH PLANS TO HAVE QUANTITY OF PROPAÇANDA LEAFLETS DROPPED

DURING RAID OVER CUBA,

ALPIZAR, UHO HAS MECHANICAL SKILL, HAS OFFERED TO CHECK OUT

MOTORS ON BOAT TO DE USED PRIOR TO ITS DEPARTURE AND HE BELIEVES HIS

OFFER WILL BE ACCEPTED BY BOSCHe

BOSCH AND HIS ASSOCIATES NOW DESCRIBE

BOAT AS BEING TUENTYEIGHT FEET LONG WITH A BRIDGE ON TOP, ALPIZAR

HAS LEARNED THAT WILLIAM JOHNSON IS INVOLVED ALSO IN ARRANGING FOR

USE OF THIS BOAT*

(GN)(4)

MIAMI HAS ADUISED [GREGE BENTLEY, SPECIAL BRANCH] U. SA CUSTOMS,

AND OTHER LOCAL FEDERAL AGENCIES

RE PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WILL

CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON WITH THEM. LETTERHEAD MEMO SUIT-

ABLE FOR DISSEMINATION WILL BE SUBNITTED TWELVE NIMETEEN SIXTYTHREE.

BUREAU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPHENTS*

END AND ACK PL$

WA D•22 PM OK FBI VA LA.

TU AND DISC

SECRET

C

Me

Bp..

Re

- Time 2: 4a Pi

974474-78

NW 50953

DocId:32301563

Page 10°

---

