~~f2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992



JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
i TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

6/4/2015

Agency Information

FBI
124-10293-10059

HQ

97-4474-275

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM
DIRECTOR, FBI

03/10/1966
a8]

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, PRESS CONFERENCE, MISSLE SITES,
CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A; 4

Redact

06/22/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

INC LHM

vol

23

i HW 50953 DocId:32307701 Page 2


Asie | ;
. ] ‘SECRET
FBI =

Date: MAR 10 1966

Transmit the following in

jpe in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL G14 4, REGISTERED

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

Cae SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P) g
IMIENTO, INSURRECCIONAL DE... Classified. by

. SOE UMN any
‘ Is - CU;

Be

fed

a Cuban newspaperman. Prior to the contérences PRaurd told
mant tha e himself had prepared a re for BOSCH
so that BOSCH could hold a press conference and claim credit
for the information contained in the announcement. ANGULO
told informant he had received the information concerning the
alleged missiles. from various Cubans he had interviewed in
the Miami-.area after their arrival from Cuba, and had
_ . with’ information recently announced by former
_ Ambassador BRADEN, Informant said that during BOSCH's press~~~
7 : announcement.,- -ANGULO regarded the incident as something of
joke. >

's :
On 11/12/65, Gaarry x awvonsf Pa covert (protect),
sed this offjce that ANGULO Ch ie interest
Py ai Loy, hafor Ci

No roti hics hag pee de to win in hid a2)

LHM in order to protect MM 635-S,
vi Miami will continue to aati i the MIRR.
MAR 11 1966

Bureau (Enc. 1, (RM)

~ Miami, Reg

SP AMM =
oe v A. ak Ee e
m.) MAR 9 960Ga1 AgenMn Charge ‘SECRET

z Cnr "la OB
Copy ioc lal Staienao {D2 bilson!

Rp ;
NM A
: _
as a Re Miami airtel, 2/28/66. Ay { }
. Rt yw a
s s Ta Enclosed for Bureau are 11 copies of LHM. t «
oY 526 segs
Ne . <2. v2 7
Nv 2 25
N A= For information of the Bureau, Sonally (le fe

aed

HW 50953 DocId:32307701 Page 3

