424-10279-10019] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/7/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10279-10019

HQ

CR 109-12-221-1791

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS,

CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW ;

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

vO.
HW 50953 Docid:32301684

Document Information

CIA
CIA

09/02/1967
5

POLIT MATTERS, GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS,
ENVOLVEMENT, PUBLIC EVIDENCE, ACAPULCO KILLINGS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential
1B

Redact
04/30/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

Page 1



« ROUTINE

on

cy STRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN

Intexigence Information table "3

PAGE 1 OF5 PAGES

CIA/NMCC NIG NSA OCR SDO AID
USIA | ONE ORR . DCS cos

STATE/INR | DIA  NMCC/MC - (SECDEF JCS”, ARMY “NAVY. AIR)

7uis material contains information aifecting the National Defence of the United States within the meaning of the Bsplonage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C.
793 and 794, the transmisson or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by Jaw.

NO FORETGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.
CITE TDCS-314/13191-67

Dist 2 SEPTEMBER 1967

Felt 6 af PPVAD COE Es ;
COUNTRY: MEXICO eg EEE ce do ‘
DOI =, 38 AUGUST 1967 elke a
E zane

CONFIDENTIAL 021914 z

supuect sY0zews OF MEXICO CITY POLICE OFFICIALS oni woe MENT

OF GOVERNOR .OF GUERRERO IN MASSACRE OF COPRA WORKERS |
ene nn AS I A

ACQ 2 MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (1 SEPTEMBER 1967) FIELD REPORT

NO. HMM=11,383

SOUR CE : feput apie MEXICAN JOURNALIST WITH WELL-ESTABLISHED
» CONTACTS IN JOURNALISTIC, GOVERNMENT AND BUSINESS roi
\ Pd

CIRCLES IN MEXICO, HE -.HAS BEEN A RELIABLE; THOUGH :

2 xf INFREQUENT, REPORTER FOR MANY YEARS, HE ACQUIRED i
= x THE INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT(FROM THE TWO POLICE - (4
Boaw & orrrciars wamen BeLow J@) @ aaa
S 3 z csummary: [Two mexico city Po. 1c#] oF FICTALS REPORT, ON THE
BLLORP \ wasis OF EVIDENCE SEEN BY THEN PERSONALLY, THAT ener |
Bese ~' Guamew EMPLOYED oN a PERmanent AaSié BY chemo doverntn’ 7” |
RAIMUNDO-ABARGA, AL/ARCOW WERE PMs tn | THE WASSACRE. OF 7
if

194 te SEP 6 1967 :
COPRA WORKERS TN ACAPULCO ON 20 aucusT 106k, TP 3S DOUBTED : i
THAT THE INCIDENT WILL RESULT IN THE SEMOVAL OF THE GOVERNOR, |

CONFIDENTIAL ; NO FOREIGN DISSEM
232 . ; |
SOSEP 21967 109 12-2 2t gy

|
‘NW 50953 Docla:32301684 Page 2


: oo 1 4
f 279- be 5 foe PH °67 aoe

TCs ~314/13191-67
LIAISON S55, gay :
“PAGE2 OF 5 PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM Cee ene '
‘

(classification,

-WHO 1S DESCRIBED aS A PAST-MASTER AT CONCEALING HIS INVOLVE- |
H MENT IN MURDERS, BECAUSE THERE IS NOT- ENOUGH “PUBLIC. EVIDENCE”

AGAINST HIM, AND BOTH THE GOVERNOR AND FEDERAL. DEPUTY CESAR

DEL ANGEL FUENTES WILL ada BE ABSOLVED, OF CHARGES OF
COMPLICITY IN THE CRIME. END. ‘SliWhARY.3
ie

| : : pususte L De KE
| 1. ON 38 AUGUST 1967,

| dF ATED
| .
; THAT GUERRERO GOVERNOR, RAIMUNDO /ABARCA LAR CON») was INVOLVED

‘IN THE MASSACRE OF, COPRA WORKERS AT ACAPULCO, GUERRERO, ON 28 ‘

! AUGUST, ROCHA-EXPLAINED THAT PROFESSIONAL GUNMEN WHO FIRED

f ON. THE COPRA WORKERS FROM THE UNION BUILDING WHICH THE COPRA

i WORKERS SOUGHT TO ENTER INCLUDED SIX Pen eone WHO SERVE AS ARMED

i ESCORTS FOR ‘GOVERWOR ABARCA AND HIS Alves. i ¢ : :
2

| State THAT HE HAD CHECKED PERSON- .

ALLY ow THE: CASE AND HAD VERIFIED THAT THE GUNMEN - WHO FIRED

FROM THE UNION BUILDING WERE PROFESSIONALS KNOWN TO. BE IN THE
PAY OF. GOVERNOR ABARGA OW A*PERMANENT BASIS. { a Coen THAT -
ALL EVIDENCE HE HAD SEEN TO DATE INDICATED THAT THE KILLING OF
THE COPRA’ WORKERS was THE RESULT OF. THE GOVERNOR S HAVING SENT -

CONFIDENTIAL ~ NO. FOREIGN. DISSEM

HW 50953 DocId:32301684 Page 3


Se we
EE a
siete eC : Chy-sisisiai-67
w J
PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM '
.
folssipeation) ___dissem. contros

HIS HIRED GUNMEN TO DEFEND THE UNION BUILDING AND. UNION OFFICIALS
WHEW WORD WAS RECEIVED THAT THE COPRA WORKERS WERE MARCHING ON
ACAPULCO TO DEMAND AND END TO THE ILLEGAL LEVY WHICH THEY HAVE
BEEN FORCED TO PAY TO UNION LEADERS AND THE GOVERNOR. [  |@)'
NOTED THAT ALL MAJOR INDUSTRIAL, AND ORGANIZED AGRICULTURAL

AND MINING ENTERPRISES DELIVER ILLEGAL PAYMENTS TO THE GOVERNOR

| WITHOUT EQUIVOCATION, AND THAT IT IS MOST IMPROBABLE THAT THE
COPRA WORKERS WOULD EVER HAVE CONSIDERED PROTESTING THEIR OWN

i ¢ LEVY, HAD THEY NOT BEEN INCITED TO DO so BY CESAR per Knee,

X rue FEDERAL. DEPUTY FROM VERACRUZ.

VRE EO

S03. ; TATED THAT IT. WAS MOST UNLIKELY. THAT THE ACAPULCO

KILLINGS WOULD COST ABARCA THE GOVERNORSHIP SINCE THERE Is NOT

ENOUGH “PUBLIC, EVIDENCE” OF ABARCA'S INVOLVEMENT. EX-

PLAINED THAT UNLESS EVIDENCE POSSESSED BY FEDERAL AUTHORITIES

WERE PUBLISHED , PRESIDENT GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ WOULD “HAVE NO

REASON TO" ORDER ABARCA OUT OF OFFICE. CPP ote THAT . .
ABARCA WAS FULLY AWARE OF THE EXTENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S IN-

FORMATION ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENT AND WAS WISELY PLAYING THE

ROLE OF INNOCENT SCAPEGOAT. _ GrreR ED THE: OPINION THAT

C OvNeF Ty DeE-N2T Ts A boot NO -FOREIGN DISSEM ~ eircses

!
i 4
| THE (GOVERNMENT WOULD PLACE GREAT PRESSURE ‘ON CESAR-DEL ANGEL af

| 4 Wr 199" oe _ : |

HW 50953 DocId:32301684 Page 4


wort eee! eee 4383

* WES—314/ 13191-€

PAGE 4 OF 5. PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(classification -{dissemn controls : ‘ :

TO CEASE HIS ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ABARGA, AND THAT IN HE END,

BOTH ABARCA AND DEL ANGEL WOULD BE ABSOLVED OF CHARGES’ oF
i a

BEING AMONG THOSE PRIMARILY-RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ACAPULCO:
KILLINGS.
@)

a. [| _]NOTED THAT ABARCA HAD MANAGED to AVOID BEING im-
PLICATED IN “THE MURDER OF ACAPULCO POLT-ICAL ‘LEADER,’ ALFREDO :

aati tte ttta a

Acorez rswienos, ALTHOUGH IT WAS FAIRLY ° 6 wreccs 2 \
saan AEE 2, Coc} ope “ST pee
CE RTAIN “THAT THE-GOVERNOR WAS” “LWVGLVED IN THAT KILLING AS: WELL «

ip 1 THAT LOPEZ CISNEROS HAD BECOME GREEDY FOR GRAFT AND
Hab <TRESPASSED ON THE GOVERNOR'S ‘OWN PRIVATE GRAFT PRESERVE,’ SO
THAT'THE GOVERNOR WAS FORCED TO ELIMINATE HIM WHEN BUSINESSMEN
PROTESTED THAT “THEY WERE. BEING FORCED TO PAY GRAFT TO Two‘
MASTERS AND “WERE RECEIVING -NO PROTECTION FROM ‘THE GOVERNOR: , ©
ACCORDING ‘TO [Paeaiven ‘IS A PAST-MASTER “AT CONCEALING HIS

TRACES ‘WHERE KILLINGS “ARE ENVOLVED, AND -THE PRESS "Is. NOT: EVEN

MENT FONTNG. THE GOVERNOR'S. TNYOLVEMENT IN A PREVIOUS MASS KILL -

ING EARLGER’ THIS YEAR.  CFYELD COMMENTS IN MARCH 1967, THE
NATIOWAL’ FARMERS” CONFEDERATION ' (CNC) ACCUSED: GOVERNOR “AB'aRCA

OF ORDERING THEKILLING OF TWENTY-FIVE PEASANTS IW ‘SAN “ANTONIO

i=}
tm

E LaS@PeyAS BYRUR AL ‘GUARDS HEADED BY

‘AND HIS FAMILY. ON 30 MARCH, THE CNG SUDDENLY DROPPED ALL
CON FU ODEN T PAL NO" FORETGN' DISSEM’

o

HW 50953 DocId:32301684 Page 5



oe “In 44383
\ ef ft ra
fp) : : ($s 314/15191-67
Nal SS
PAGE 5 OF 5 PAGES
SONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM
etassincaton, aissem controty

CHARGES AGAINST THE GOVERNOR IN WHAT APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN A
POLICICAL DEAL. BELGADO HAS BEEN IMPLICATED IN THE KILLING
OF LOPEZ CISNEROS.)

5. S00 wan | AG tte STATING THAT HE
PERSONALLY HaD SEEN EVIDENCE THAT GOVERNOR ABARCA WAS MORE RE-
SPONSIBLE THAN ANYONE ELSE FOR THE CONSPIRACY TO KILL LOPEZ
CISNEROS AND FOR SENDING GUNMEN TO THE ACAPULCO UNION HEADQUARTERS
WHERE THE KILLING OF COPRA WORKERS TOOK PLACE.

6 FIELD DISSEMs STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO,

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NOFOREIGN DISSEM

‘ ce

Eee,

HW 50953 DocId:32301684 Page 6
