"124-10089-10177)

| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
7 JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

3/30/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10089-10177
RECORD SERIES: DL
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 105-632-141
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MX
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE:, 02/27/1964
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
SEE FBI 100-32965-114
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/07/1999 ‘
OPENING CRITERIA :© APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32149921 Page 1


oA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
jz, RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

» Director, FBE (100-32968) jy Tyis amie fi: as bracketed)
Legat, Mexico Caty (105-3859) (P) inant Vib
ocuRe! _.

LOY ge
SOK

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD?T

‘ JEANNE DE MOMRENSCHILD? a
is ~R :
®  BUDED 3/1/64 my
“yt BS —
Qyes ser
UP aR ENCLOSURES :
3
RE ee There are enclosed herewith 29 copies a
Weis

letterhead memorandum, dated and captioned ag above.
REFERENCES

S

as

Bucab to Mexice City dated 2/20/84, and Legat,
Mexico cable to Bureau dated 2/24/64

ADMINISTRATIVE

s6/LEA aliler

The files of the Mexico City office contain no
unreported information regarding the subjects or LILIA
PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN.

On 2/24/64] tir. ALAN P. WHITE, Deputy Director 7
CJA Station, Mexico, D. F., Mexico, stated that the records
Sf that office contained no identifizble information TD
».concerning LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN and no information _ R
concerning the subjects in addition te that previously. :
burnished to the Mexico City office, It is: noted that all
pertinent information furnished by CIA, Mexico, concerning an
_ ZHENYA DE MONSHUIK, aka JEANE LIGON DE MOHRENSCHILDT, who
a appears to be identieal with JEANNE DE MO) SCHILDT, has
previously been furnished to the surenu.($\(U

r4

Since the Mexico City office is not in possession
of current information concerni the whereabouts. of LILIA
\

_. @ » Bureau (Encs. 29)
Q@ - Liaison Sect
(@@ - Dallas)
(1 ~ New York,
i_ + Mexico City
JRG: jbk :
(7)

HW 50953 DocId:32149921 Page 2
