(124-10020-10285) . {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)
JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10020-10285

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-109060-7023

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = FBI
FROM: SAC, BA
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 08/02/1971
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
. JFK, SUSPECT, NK
DOCUMENT TYPE; PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
~ CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

yor
RW 50953 DocId:32122448 Paye 1


FD-36, (Rev. 8-22-64)

r

nm

FBI
wing i
Transmit the following in Fispe in plaintent oF code]

v
1

'

\

i]

\

iy

pate: 8/2/72
4

1

4

AIRTEL

Tpriority)

C, BALTIMORE (89-30)

SSIDENT JOHN .

‘TTZGERALD KENNEDY
963... —_

Enclosed for the Bureau are four copies of an
LHM, captioned and dated as above, which is self-explanatory -

i p . Enclosed for Dallas is one copy of instant LHM.

No further-action is being taken by Baltimore,

UACB.

C2 waren (Eeciocure. 4) ENC

j- Dallas (Enclosure 1) . “p ——

l- Baltimore
LWH ine

CO GH) nA
‘ a : 7) ~
Beane ato? b sen pe

Special Agent in Charge

betes

RW 50953 DocId:32122448 Paye 2


ra
~ | [Me Felt
C ~ Mr, Sullivan

“ va
UNC :D STATES DEPARTMENT OF | STICE eels 4
~ 7 Me. Brennan, C.D.—| |
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION Mr. Callahan ,
Mr, Casper (
In Reply, Please Refer to Baltimore, Maryland Mr. Conrad '

File  wo-30 August 2, .1971 SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO :
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR Te EE EDS ea Eae OEM ‘
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION November 22, 1963" ’ ies limes

IN THIS DOCUMENT, As Beacdeted. ; :
af? duly,.28, 1971, [Marion JoenffRobinson, | ___ >
fy pdt Wilmingtom, Delaware} appeared at the :
Hh ‘ mgton, Delaware Resident Agency of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI), and provided the following
' information. .

ORME. .
She was aa Jemployee of the ac
Bt

Agency From October, [959 until AWZusty “196,

In 1961, she was assigned to the Central Intelli- |
gence Agency in Paris, France,

~ |
{Miss RobinsontStatea that she had previously
supplied some of the following information to the Central: i
Intélligence Agency in a letter to the Director of the Central \
Intelligence Agency in March, 1971. She stated that she has i
to date only received a short letter from the Central i
Intelligence Agency, and that father had received a }
telephone call from a[Mr. Brown{#concerning her letter. |
She related that she Delieves t the details of the i
following to be correct, and that she had voluntarily ;
. contacted a psychiatrist and had psychological testing !
performed, which she stated had resulted in the psychiatrist i
advising her that she is normal. She continued and advised '
that she is disgruntled with the way that the Central '
Intelligence Agency has handled the information which she H
provided, and insinuated that she intended to contact i
the newspapers in the near future with her information. :
7
i

: SRP CERIAT! QQeTALNED
broad 1s unelassir ed ances
WHERE OTHER EE

J RELTHER RECOMMENDATIONS
b. 18 1S THE PROPERTY
aves 10 YOUR RGENCY; IT

ARE NOT TO GE DISTRIBUTED
BERG”

i SECRET reo your ”
: ¢ 16223 |
| Basu’? - 1A |

HW 50953 DocId:32122448 Paye 3



SEGRET
RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN
FITZGERALD KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS
November 22, 1963
—— : Lae a
5 cae
fis Robinsonf Stated that the following information
began coming back to Her earlier this year, and credits her
lapse of memory to a drug induced amnesia administered to
er on order of n Central Intelligence Agency employee,

a
: Spencér}Branam w ae
we During the week of March 21, 1961, after returning
R| from lurich, she overheard nversation betweenjA, S rer.
It 7 :
as Braham; Lewis JvMtapham, Jr and possibly fo Lerfebil ues.
employees of the Central Inte gence Agency, ich tdok

place in the Centra]. Intelligence “Ageicty office located on,
the secon@ floor of jAvenue Gabrielle ris, France. she Ct]
stated that she does not recall who“Wés talking, but that

the conversation concerned the fact that the President was
not doing what was good for the country, especially about
Vietnam, and that he had to be done away with within the

next five years. She stated that following this remark,

the group noticed that she had returned, and the conversation
was terminated.

fits Robinson] stated that, the following Friday,
she wi given U. S. Army orders by firs. Pierre (Marge
Dasse @ personnel officer, to travel to an unrecalled
Army Medical Facility in Paris fora polio innoculation.
She stated that upon arriving at the Medical Facility,
she was injected with some type of drug which the Medical
Technician, later told her was a drug which would make
her forget everything

« ‘5

Piss asvinsof Rates that she now recalls that
the technician told hér that she would even forget getting
the shot, and that upon returning to her fice, she was
questioned about the injection by Braham{? nd she remembers
that she told him that apparently She had received a polio
dmmoculation, but did not recall at that time receiving
it.

“Qu

| (SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32122448 Paye 4


a

2, r’s on
a Ny
. A
lan
\ a
BA 89-30 ae yap

RE: ASSASSINATION, OF, PRESIDENT JOHN
FITZGERA] foment DALIAS, TEXAS
November*2257

iss ane novinecdf ated that two w es Fens a
this, she telephofiically contacted vy [He Herry Hatin, am

another employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, Paris;~

France, and told to come to his apartment for s: emergency

she was met by \Lunn, Braham, Jac Last name ui wn, but

beginning with "C"). ‘These men™began making sexual advances
towards her, and she stated that she became extremely upset
and begged to be allowed to go home. She was told that she
could not go home in her distraught condition and was given
& glass of water and told to relax. She stated that she

lost consciousness for approximately ten to fifte-n minutes

and when she awoke she found herself bed without, clothes.
She stated that she was then raped by aoe Jack #SAna 1a)

typing. She vibe that upon arriving atj/Lunn'sPapartment

She stated that she told them that if phampanew what wi s
happening there would be a lot of tro ma of them
called [aphanggnd he later appeared at the apartment and
also raped hi She stated that later that evening she
was taken to her apartment and put into her own bed.

(Miss Robinsonfaia that at a later date, exact
ime unknown, she again overheard a conversation between
rahanj¥and (Laphamjs)concerning the fact that "Mr. Big" had

ordered that anyone who knew of "the plans" should be ~

killed. ipo tated during the comversation that nothing
could be done at her while she was in Paris since there |
would be too many questions asked about her death in France.

: iss Robinson.stated that Braham is now residing
in Falls lurch Virginia |; Lunn now owns two art galleries
and @ real estate office in arvana i D. C.3 and Lapham

)

is now residing in Bethesda, Maryland

HW 50953 DocId:32122448 Paye 5

i
i
'
i
i
