124-10193-10038| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ]
JFK Assassination System. Date: 10/14/20
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10193-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FIL MBER: — 105-82555-3RD NR 466

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG,LO
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: — 12/10/1963
if 2

SUBJECTS :
LHO, POST-RP, TRA, VISA, SOVIET

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 02/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9 1

HW 50953 DocId:32285262 Page 1


f Ay \

ie “7% t i
abd aoe :
oa CIA HAS NOLORECTION TO
DEOLASSI" ”* MDVOR,

Date: 8/44/63 Fagal LriViATION

eae seen IN THIS DOCUMENT. -
he tollowing Fyejnasesserert — “sEcREE ail IN P pipearied ilo on fe
A TPIS wy
Vig AIRTEL
Vio AIRS - (Pri. .y or Method J Mailing) een & 2 - /4
elec ae tear aes em BRO By 4883-Ll Kye
re) EARECTOR, FBI y declassity om O&0R

OPK spet

|
ibe,
- FROM LEGAT, LONDON (62-359) (P)

{
| ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT CLASSIFIED ‘atndlt Goole
| JOHN F, KENNEDY EXEMPT FROMNADS CATEGORY Z”

IFICATION INDEFINITE i

q
| Remyairtel 11/26/63 ed
| in Cambridge, England had stated he received anonymous telephone t
| call prior to the time of the President's assassination saying rs i
\. Should callithe American-fmbassy in London as there would be some
rs = ty P ” fo -
ihe rd tee  OSwalel
The Bureau was informed that on the next road trip
5 Scandanavia checks would be made with sources + e for any i
information .on OSWALD. ty cable of 11/27/63 stat Gratin : aA
ery was unreliabl ao
f . Of ,§8/9763SWALCOLM CUMMING of MI-5 advised that thie | \y

Security Service; MI-5 iad. informed that the repo

eporter ,°T RYFITZGERALD, had been interviewed, He stated ke i
ceived the ¢ < thé offices of the "Cambridge News" at abous
PM on Friday November 22, 1963, He based the time on the fact ©
ad arrived from his office at 6:20 PM. The call was made.
man with an glish accent who spoke with a deep voice. Inqu
+ thetelephone exchange in Cambridge were unable to firm the
all. [According to MI-5, while FITZGERALD is described
reporter a Mine" ] source has informed he is in, the habit of

“shooting a line'™.] There were no other persons in the office waen(Sy
the call was alleB@dly received and it was not until the morning of: "~~
Baturday, 11/23/63 that-FITZGERALD mentioned the call, On the
orning of 11/23/63,the reporters of the "Cambridge News" were
cussing the assassination and.it was at this ‘time FITZGERALD men
the call to,the chief reporter who in turn reported it to local
authorities

3- Bureau
- Liaison
- London
f CWBirn

{5

1

HW 50953 Docld:32285262 Page 2


tonfile 62-359
CWBern

According to MI-5, FITZGERALD is married and
vesides at 3 Earl Street, Cambridge, He was born 3/28/39, Ee
is the general feeling among FITZGERALD’s colleagues th: t:
doubt about the telephone call having ever been received}

On 12/2/63 Gr BOB PORTER, CIA, Osloj inforiféd m
that a check had n made of the following records on OSWALD:
American Embassy, (Alien Police, Criminal Police, Security Police

re is

and all hotels in Oslo. ege checks were completely negative. ¢¢

PG, 12/4/ e PHIL ERICKSON, CIA; Stockholm
[sveaen ted Stockholm newspapers on 11/25/63 .reported
obtaiff@e® his Soviet visa in Stockholm in 1959 after being unable
U) to get the visa in Helsinki, Finland, The news account said
OSWALD had remained in Stockholm for two days. A check of. all
hotel)records in Stockholm Wei) ‘Police, security and

) CIA,

On 12/6/63 Mr, FRANK oseQOSMALD aff iy advised

alien records also negative Da

SWALD arrived in Helsinki

on 10/10/59fand registered at the Torni Hotel. He remained there

that 710/sojfing > inquiry ‘ad disclose

one night, m- moved to the Klaus Kurki Hotel where he remained
until 10/15/59. eget ate he crossed the Finnish-Soviet

border by train, RIBER
to Stockho his visa and it is presumed the visa was

1.to ge

tated there was no indication he went(S)

issued by the Soviet Embassy in Helsinki. A sink} police, and

alien records disclosed no information jin Helsinki

qo? ae

(oR Ay
ee ee

ey

HW 50953 Docld:32285262 Page 3

