[124-90065-10027) [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90065-10027
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-176790-39
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: . HQ
TITLE: **-s
DATE: — 04/09/1968
“PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS :
PODER CUBANO Ee
RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTION! 1B; 4
~  CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact ro
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/23/1998

COMMENTS :

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

AT

v9.

HW 50953 DocIld:32327741 Page 1


4/9/68

7 (Type in plaintext or code)

i eT,
a AIRTEL peeps Fon the bans
v : Kk a = a -4¢ (Priority)

CLASSIFIED BY 4
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-176790) DECLASSIFY ON.
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-15556) of”

SUBJECT : om CUBANO

pg ReBuairtels 3/28/68 and 3/29/68, Vand Miami te
ta 3/23/68 and 3/25/68, captioned UNSUBS.; ATTEMPTED BOMBI
OF CHILEAN CONSULATE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, 3/12/68, BOMBING

Miami officefwith CIA source, fescar ANGULO REYES. iS)

rn lew York, Newark and Washington Field one copy each of
aan hd

CIA which prompted interview with/ANGULO S\rt is noted

as CAS/M-2401 and is the toy with [ANcuL0 received fro.
SANcuLolwas identified by CIA as the sole“source of this

Z MATTER, in which information is set forth re contagt by the

vy
FZ | Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies and for

IA, Miami memorandum dated 3/20/68, classified "SECRET," 4
(of under the Cuban Power caption. This memorandum is identified

ra0!

NG

ym

say information, even though it was attributed to a group.
aes : se
ne : Bureau note that ‘information set forth(under EF
ay Items 1 a, band c and 2.a.in CIA letter to. the Director
dated 3/26/68, is identical. with thq,information in the
s : enclosed memorandum, with. the. e: ayide pn of some minor oY |
ae Pine aera |
a Nan Bishop wind ae 3
“SS ‘ orer OSURE 2, : y
s|< GG). Bureau (nes. 2th OSU BP LST SLL 90) %
SS -]_ new York (Ene. 1) (1085-94169) Gab” fe (9 fh O TGC
2 - Newark (Enc. 1) (105-22901) (RM) . 1%
1 - Washington Field (Enc. 1) (RM) 12 APR_4-0°1968
1 ~ Miami =) Bey
JCB: jhk. ae omen
| (8) Wh Ee
LALIN-AWERICAN
ete f fe
i prea
| Approved:

oe
: LOO
i



|.

i

if
5
f

\

MM 105-15556 ecpREt

additions such as correction of the name IRMINA BOUZA
ENRIQUEZ , addition of aliases of BOUZA, incorrect stating
of BOUZA's address, etc. Despite these additions, the
basic information in these paragraphs obviously was taken
from CAS/M-2403. 2)

As set forth in referenced teletypes, ANGULO
upon contact by Bureau Agents on 3/23/68, advised he had
not furnished certain information attributed to nin 2
this document, specifically that Cuban Power is comfosed
of two numbered cells 1s the listing of members of each
cell. In fact, Excuio} vised he had no information to
the effect this organization is composed of two numbered
cells, leading Miami to believe CIA has inadvertently
furnished misleading information in their attempt to round
out fAvcttote|gepore i

ANGU! advised Bureau Agents that on Saturday,
3/16/68, he had been seated in the Camaguey Restaurant,
Miami, where he overheard a conversation among three Cuban
males and one Cuban female seated nearby. With the
exception of the female, he was unable to furnish any

-

description of these individuals, stating he had not looked *

in their direction. The female departed and he briefly
glanced at her as she passed, but he did not see her face
and would not recognize her again. He could describe

her only as a white female, of Latin appearance, who was
"tall and thin." (This is believed to be an attempt on
his part to strengthen the later identification of her

as BOUZA, who is actually nearly 6 feet tall and very
slender. Following her departure, one of those remaining
inquired as to her identity and was told she was IRMINIA
BOUZA, former secretary of WENDELL. ROLLASON and currently

a night employee of "The Miami Herald" newspaper, According

to ANGULO, all of the additional details concerning her

connection with and activities on behalf of the Cuban Power,

as well as names of Cuban Power members and sympathizers
and other details(set out in CAS/M-2401 ,Jwere obtained by
him during this conversation.

hig ever hearimg

HW 50953 Docld:32327741 Page 3

mW



: SECRET

MM 105-15556

{ ANGULO advised he is not acquainted with BOUZA,
MORALES, CORNILLOT or any of their associates and was
simply Peporting information overheard by him on the above
occasion.

A1ttiough ANGULO claimed he was able to recall
without notes the names of all persons mentioned in this <
conversation, he was unable to recall these names at the
time of this interview and found it_necessary to refer to
a@ copy of his written report (to CIA;for these names, ANGULO" s(3)(W)
attention was directed to the fact”he had furnished a bank
account number of RICARDO MORALES and he was specifically
asked if he had also been able to recall this number without y
benefit of notes, at which time he admitted this number had
been furnished by a "confidential connection" whom he refused
i to identify... He was obviously upset at being pinned down
as to the source of his information and attempted to explain
his refusal to identify his source by vaguely stating he was
a friend in the bank where MORALES had maintained his account,

whichis nat believed to be true, He denied his source was
ie SviDrdgana OSTA, stating he had never met KABA,
by In connection with the above, during previous
interviews with RICARDO MORALES, it was determined MORALES
had loaned his car to KABA while MORALES was in jail. In
the trunk of his car was a box of papers containing a passport
of BOUZA, erroneously issued under the name IRMINIA BOUZA,

and in the locked glove compartment was a bank book showing
MORALES* ‘bank account number which was known only to him, —

ierostasadoastdscnsstetonssaadaigpaasbesssife

(NW 50953 Docld:32327741 Page 4


fae
YY

MM 105-15556

soe!

on!

MORALES also indicated during these interviews that he

had placed sports-type hub caps on this car just prior

to his arrest on 2/14/68, when the car was loaned to KABA
(note reference to sports wheels in enclosure). The car

is a brown Pontiac sedan, purchased by MORALES in September,
1967, in the name of IRMINA BOUZA, his mistress. Although
the car is in her name, she has no driver*s license and has
never driven.it (note reference to her having transported
explosives and Cuban Power papers in this car). Since she
was unable to drive the car, it was loaned to KABA upon
MORALES* arrest.

2 During a subsequent interview with MORALES, he
advised he had obtained a confession from KABA to the effect
he had been Yollecting and reporting information to a Cuban
‘exile, MARIONIASIP, and it is now felt MASIP is probably
ANGULO's source,

ANGULO stated he was positive of the date of the
above conversation as 3/16/68, a Saturday, Regarding the
identification of the "tall and thin" female-as IRMINIA
BOUZA, it is noted inquiry by Bureau Agents at the apartment
of BOUZA on the night of 3/14/68, in an attempt to locate
MORALES for interview, determined MORALES had taken BOUZA- 7
to Mt. Sinai Hospital, Miami Beach, to have her baby. It.
was subsequently determined that she had a baby on the night
of 3/14/68 and remained in the hospital over the weekend.

Thus, she could not have been in the Camaguey Restaurant

on 3/16/68, as claimed by ANGULO, This fact, along with

the illogicalness of ANGULO's story that he was able to_

overhear and retain all names and facts set forth in this -
report and his subsequent evasiveness during interview,

=

leads to the conclusion his story was fabricated It would

appear this conclusion should have been reached (by CIA piso. u)
ANGULO's report contains enough accurate information,

such as names and account number of MORALES, to give it the” f

appearance of authenticity when the source or method of . |

obtaining the information is not known. If (cra}had tncruaea (SC u)

Risesnaairt a ———

HW 50953 DocIld:32327741 Page 5


MM. 105-15556 i SECRET

in their memorandum the fact this information was hearsay
or unverified rumor and gossip, which fact was reported]
furnishedyto CIA by[ANGULO,({this information could haves
been plac in its oper perspective. It would appear tha
if [ANGULOJ2An fact, (advised CIAJof his method of obtaining (4)
this information, A deliberately omitted this point of -
evaluation from their memorandum|to the Miami office, conveying uy)!
the erroneous impression the fa€ts emanated from a knowledgeable <
source,

A great deal of information sent to uiami (by CIA.
is attributed to “a group of Cuban’ emigres trained in the
techniques of information collection,” with no attempt at
identifying the origin of the ‘information. Apparently, CIA,

tami, operates several such groups, some of which are more He
reliable than others, | In most instances, it is apparent no Gu)
effort has been made to evaluate the source or to determine
the identity of the original source of the information, causing a
the Miami office to expend investigative effort in determining
the truefacts.. All such information[furnished by ciabis Ga) u)
given official character and weight by its being placed in
written inter-agency communication. It is felt street gossip
should be identified as such when included in this type of
communication, particularly when this fact is readily known.
All other facts which would have a bearing on the veracity of *
the source or truthfulness of the information should be ob-

a
(4)

-

tained fand reported by CIA, \along.with the information bein;
furnished. ‘

It is recognized this is a delicate issue and as
stated in retel of 3/26/68, this matter was discussed in-

formally| with CIA liaison, AUSTIN HORN, on 3/25/68, at which
time he agreed with these observations, stating he would

discuss the matter with appropriate personnel and attempt to
correct this situation in the future. u)

E This matter was again brought up on 4/2/68(when
the SAC met with PAUL HENZE, Chief of Station, CIA, ami.
HENZE stated his organization is not now operating any
agents or informants, as such, in exile groups, and is not
engaging in any counterintelligence activities in the United>
States. He stated his station is, in fact, cutting back its (

operations, and many of the exiles they have previously used

A. SECRET |

HW 50953 DocId:32327741 Page 6

