124-10369-10063) | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10369-10063

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-X6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: — 10/19/1967
PAGES: 273

SUBJECTS :
HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, CIA REPORTS LHO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 03/28/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, CABLEGRAM, INVENTORY, LET, NOTE, TTY, NEWS ARTICLE,
R/S, PHOTOS, SUMMARY, TRANSLATIONS, LIST, REPORT

v9.1 37
| HW 50953 DocId:32319429 Page 1


7 ers LAD

ee ia,
‘CIA vias NO OBJECTION To SECRE Qe
DECLASSIF!
Si 0 “CRMATI
IN THis marines MATIGBiercToR, FBI (105-82555) 4/6/64
Sanit (26D
~ K 3he/A7 LEGAT, MEXICO (105-3702) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA
Is ~ R = CUBA

: Enclosed are two autostat copies of a "Secret" CIA
memorandum to the Ambassador dated 10/16/63 and captioned
“Lee OS¥ALD/Contact with the Soviet Embassy." It will be
noted that this memorandum bears the statement "THIS INFORMATION
IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, iT MUST NOT BE DISSEMINATED IN
WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL FROM
THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY." It is also noted that
the ofiginal of the memorandum was sent on a circulating basis
to the Ambassador, the Minister, the Counselor for Political
Affairs, and the giona: Security Officer and was to be
returned to Acer ‘Floor{2§CIA) ‘and that carbon copies for
retention were signate or the Legal Attache, the Naval .
Attache, and I&NS.

ReBucab #22 and mycab #525, both dated 4/3/64, In
accordance with the instructions contained in reBucab, the.
following is submitted:

It is noted that the enclosed CIA memorandum mentions
contact on the part of LEE OSWALD only with the Soviet Embassy
and no mention was made of the Cuban Embassy. Although the CIA i
memorandum was dated 10/16/63, the blockstamp of this office
indicates it was actually received here on 10/18/63. On the
same date our cable #109 captioned "LEE OSWALD, IS - R," was
sent to the Bureau. This cable furnished a summary of the
information contained in the CIA memorandum and requested the
Bureau to furnish background data to this office. Bureau cable
#743 dated 10/22/63 and bearing the same caption furnished such
background and advised that additional background was being
furnished by mail. This additional background information was
received at the Mexico City Office on 10/28/63.

3 - Bureau (Encs. 2)
(1 - Liaison Section)
1 - Mexico City
CDA:plb
(4)

SECRET

|. 50953 Doclda:32319429 Page 2


Cc

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
| DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

: TiS pocuwen. 6 ay [93 aa NOV 1968
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation An
SUBJECT: Assassination of President Kennedy--Reported \

Anonymous Telephone Message

; G)
1. ‘The following(Gable from the CIA Station in London|was reported
orally to Mr. Samuel Papich at 0930 on 23 November:

@. ‘The British Security Service (MI-5) has reported that at
1805 GMT on 22 November an anonymous telephone call was made in
Cambridge, England, to the senior reporter of the Cambridge News. The
caller said only that the Cambridge News reporter should call the
American Embassy in London for some big news and then hung up.

3. After the word of the President's death was received the re-
porter informed the Cambridge police of the anonymous call and the
police informed MI-5. The important point is that the call was made,
according to MI-5 calculations, about 25 minutes before the President
was shot. The Cambridge reporter had never received a ¢all of this
kind before and MI-5 state that he is kmown to them as a sound and loyal
person with no security record.

4, MI-5 noted that similar anonymous phone calls of a strangely
coincidental nature have been received by pérsons in the U. K. over the
past year, particularly in connection with the case of Dr. Ward.

5. The British Security Service stated its desire to assist in

every possible way on any follow-up investigations required within
the United Kingdon.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

we Lied > LO ‘Kal

ae — rn B ye JAMES ANGLETON
cscr- yon
? epee
ong (eogge
yeh bn 3 flo®
aes

HW 50953 DocId:32319429 Page 3


SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

7 nat ; OR, i bs
nroRwation i pe —
IN THIS DOCUMENT. balla, / |

AS SmI TIZED

BW 50953

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD ~ Internal Security
Russia - Cuba

‘1. Reference is made to your memorandum of Au
1964, Subject as above, your file number (S) 1035-82555, in
which you requested that seven enclosed photographs be
shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.
‘2, VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 September 1964 with
the following results.

3. Photograph no. 1:

(1) Nikolay SERGEYEV - Source did not recognize the
face and had never heard tho name.

(2) Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA, nee ZUGOFF, formerly
known as Annette GOLDSHTEYN (GOLDSTEIN) and
Annette Henkina (KHENKINA): Source recognized
her immediately by face, giving the name Annette
KHENKINA, formerly Annette GOLDSHTEYN. He
could not recall her maiden name but when offered
the name ZUGOFF he said this would be correct
as it is an Ossettian name and her father had
been Ossettian and her mother a Canadian. Source's
additional information on this woman is provided
in paragraph 8 below.

(3) Joseph ADAMOV: Source recognized his photograph
immédiately and provided the name correctly,
identifying him as his long-time friend, previously
discussed in the (Britis report referenced in
your memorandum. 5)

SECRET

Doclda:32319429 Page 4


: SECRET

(4) Annabelle BUCAR: Source recognized her photo-
graph immediately and gave her name_correctly.
Ske is the person discussed in the ei tiel 1G >
report. ,

(3) Sergei RUDIN: Source recognized his photograph
immediately and gave his name ag "RUDIK"sand
RUDERMAN or TMAN, the same man referred to in
the [Britishfreport. Source said he is a close
friend of doe ADAMOV's. He is Jewish and vas
originally from New York, but is mow a Soviet
citizen, married to a Russian woman and father
of three or four children. He works in the
English language section of Radio Moscow. _He
had formerly had a very small flat of one or |
two roons, with which he was very inhappy, but
Radio Moscow got him an attractive and larger
flat ia a building on Peschanaya Street.

(6) Luey (Olga) PRAVDINA: Source recognized her
photograph at once as the woman who had given
him English lessons in 1944 or 1945 when he was
briefly employed at [Radio Moscow]S? He believed
her mame was Irina or something like that, and
she had previously spent possibly ten of fifteen
years in the Uniged States with hor husband who
had been a TASS wan there, Source could not
reeall her last name (married name) but thought
it began with a "K". When Source first met her
she was & program director for Radio Moscow and
did some announcing. He gaid she spoke excellent
English, was a good worker and well liked by her
colleagues. He did not know the names LUCY and
OLGA PRAVDINA, and was coxtain neither was her
actual name.

4. Photographs 2 and 3: Source recognized these as
Annette KHENKINA, of paragraph 3 (2) above.

5. Photograph no. 4: Source recognized number 1 as i
the person identified in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized }
Annette KHENKINA, Sergei RUDIMAN, and Joe ADAMOY. He did
not recognize Nikolai SHRGEYEV in this photograph.

6. Photograph no. 5: Source recognized all persons |
in this photo, as identified in paragraphs 3 (3), (2), (4), |

and (6) above.
SECRET = |
\ |

HW 50953 DocId:32319429 Page 5


SECRET

7. Photograph no. 6: Source recognized number (1)
as KHENKIN (first name not recalled), the second husband
of Annette GOLDSHTEYN KHENKINA, and aumber (2) as Annette
herself. He knew that they had a son and assumed that the
child in this photo was that son, but he had never seen the
child. Source provided the same informatio: m KHENK IN
previously included in /MI-S Report Number 27) Preferred to
in your memorandum. He “added to this that © apartment
puilding in the background of photograph number (3) is
the location of the apartment which KHENKIN was given after
he had written a letter to STALIN complaining of quarters
he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Union
in 1945 or 1946.

8. Photograph no. 7: Source recognized Annette
KHENKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.
When number (4), Marina, was pointed out to him, he stated
that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by hor
first husband, GOLDSHTEYN. Source had seem her as a small
child, possibly about five or six years or age, in 1948.

He has never scen her since, knew nothing more about her,

and could mot identify her photograph. Source commented

that he had never met GOLDSHTEYN, Annette's first husband,

but knew that he was much older than she and he speculated
that the older man in this photograph might be Doris
GOLDSHTEYN, Source gave the following additional information
op Boris GOLDSETEYN: He was some kind of engineer-technician,
not employed by Radio Moscow. He did not approve of Annette's
working in the radio field, and disapproved of the people

she worked with there and the general atmosphere of work.
Annette was already separated or divorced from GOLDSHTEYN
when Source first met her, sometime in 1944 or 1945. While
Annette was still married to GOLDSHTEYN, she had an affair
with Joe ADAMOV.

9. Regarding Ley or Leo SETYABY, Source had never
heard the name. He was not aware that Annette KHENKINA
had married for the third time, although he knew that she
was divorced from KHENKIN and that he was interested in
marrying a woman who was an editor in a publishing house.

10, Source had never heard of Lee Harvey OSWALD
prior to his defection, and had no information regarding

his participation in a Radio Moscow interview in late
1959. He commented, however, that it was not unusual to

SEQRET

549

as

HW 50953 DocId:32319429 Page 6



HW 50953 DocId:32319429 Page 7


rae fear ter ar

&2) Hand photegreph of Aumette Sotyneva.

‘ENW 50953 DocId:32319429 Page 8



BW 50953 - DocId:32319429 Page 9
