# 124-10278-10096

## Page 1

124-10278-10096

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10278-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-86025-5TH NR 16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/21/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCA, ASSOC, ACA, MIL ACT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE,APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

1217

70933

DooId: 32301261

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

C S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 21:1960

RELEASE OF CIA IRFORMATION

SECRET

IN THIS DOCUMENT..

MKH 26-98

SiD /KSR

CLASSIRED BY 5668 SID/ECL

3-2-98

(JFK)

" 201944

508 ME

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X OM6

Gias

Mr.

1-E0*

aments

Cairon

Mr.

IT.

Var.

Mr.

M. Graire

Mr.

Rosen

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.O. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Candy

URGENT 10-21÷60

8=1/11. 3-00 PM JLD

TO DIRIETOR, BI 8: / 105-90168/ AND SAC,

MIAMI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

FROM SAC, NEW YORK /97÷1844/

2P

HEREIN IS URCLASSIMIED EXCERT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

CHRISTIAN ANTI DASH COMMUNIST FRONT, IS DASH CUBA, RA DASH

CURATON TEN SASH IUENTY SLAR SIXTVEY TWO TOUR NINE TOUR

DASH S ASTERISK LEARNED THAT MANUEL GUILLOT, WHO IS EMPLOYED

AT CUBAN CONSULATE, NYC, AND IS NEPHEW OF CUBAN CONSUL GENERAL,

WAS CONTACTED THAT DATE BY

AN IDENTIFIED ONLY AS COSTON

PAREN PHONETIC END PAREN&S

CINTRON ADVISED GUILLOT, THAT THERE

WAS EQUIPMENT FOR ONE THOUSAND PERSONS INCLUDING UNIFORMS?

RIFLES AND QUOTE EVERYTHING UNQUOTIAT FORTY SECOND StREET

AND EIGHTS AVES PAREN NYC ENA CARENO CINTRON STATOES OURS

INFO CAME FROM SOMEONE QUOTE ON THE INSIDE UNQUOTE ANDESTHAT

EQUIPMENT WOULD GO TO MIAMI AFTER THE WEEKEND. & GUILLOT VAS ON

INFORMED BY CINTRON THAT QUOTE THE SECRETARY UNQUOTE WASAT (QU

ORIGINAL FILED IN

HOTEL SAN RAFAEL PAREN LOCATED SIXTY FIVE WEST FORTY FIFTH

STREET, NYC END PAREN AND POSSIBLY IN ROOM FIVE OR FIFTY®

CINTRON DISCLOSED TO GUILLOT THIS INFO CAME FROM A PRIVATE

50 4)

END

. PAGE ONE

105÷86025

NOT RECORDED

50 NOV 1 0 1960

SECRET

174 NOV 4

1960

5- Marcu

NH 50953 DocId: 32301261 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PAGE TWO

MEETING HELD ON MONDAY BY THE EXECUTIVES PAREN NOT FURTHER

IDENTIFIED END PAREN. CINTRON STATED MOST OF THE MEMBERS WERE

NOT AWARE OF THIS INFO AND THAT IT HAD NOT BEEN PUBLICIZED.

CINTRON ASKED GUILLOT IF PELEGRIN HAD ARRIVED AND GUILLOT

REPLIED IN THE NEGATIVE. NOTE PELEGRIN MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH

PELEGRIN GARCIA GARCIA, WHO IS ACTIVE IN PUERTO RICAN NATIONALIST

MOVEMENT IN NYC: GUILLOT TOLD CINERON THAT QUOTE OUR COMPANION

ARRIVED LAST NIGHTS HE CALLED ME AT ONE UNQUOTE GUILLOT

INDICATED

THAT QUOTE OUR COMPANION UNQUOTE WISHED TO CONTACT

C INTRON

ONE SLASH SIXTY DISCLOSED THAT ROOM FIVE C AT SAN RAFAEL HOTEL,

NICE IS UTILIZED BY MEMBERS OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION, WHICH IS

HEADED BY LUIS ERNESTO CONTE AGUERO, INQUIRIES ALSO DISCLOSED

LUIS CONTE AGUERO DEPARTED NEW YORK NIGHT OF TEN SLASH TWENTY

SLASH SIXTY FOR MIAMI, FLORIDA. PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION IN

CAPTIONED CASE DISCLOSED CONTE AGUERO CAN BE CONTACTED AT MIAMI

THROUGH TELEPHONE PL EIGHT DASH EIGHT NINE THREE THREE, LOCATED

• AT SEVEN NORTHEAST FORTY SEVENTH STREET, MIANI BEACH. UACB,

MIAMI INTERVIEW CONTE AGUERO REGARDING ALLEGED EQUIPMENT INASMUCH

AS IT INDICATES POSSIBLE INVASION ATTEMPT OF CUBA, EXERCISING

CAUTION TO PROTECT SOURCES, DISSEHINATION FOLLOWS.

(10

END

DISSEMINATION 10g

STATE - VINCENT MONTI

NY R 8VA RA

M

ERIN. SINGERS

,SECRET

CUSTOMS

DAVID D STRUGINGER

•and NY o instructed to mo fig Custons, NY,

NH 50953

Do01d:32301261

Page 3

---

