# 124-10066-10073

## Page 1

124-10066-100732

- 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10066-10073

RECORD_ SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-1ST NR 7831

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/17/1977

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JFK, SEARCHING SUSPECTS, CUBAN EXILES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

06/30/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

-

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

WH 50953 DocId: 32141601

Page 1

---

## Page 2

RR'ROF.33

DE RUEAIIA #1261 290182.

AsH

ZiY 35SSS

Ост 1/ 30510 '70

RECEiVEn

FEDERAL SUA

^$!!

PINVESTIGATIO:

COMHUMICATIONE SOCIE

SElKLi

TO RUF BI/FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

FUEKC/DEPT ÓF STATE/ /SY/T/PIE

RUFKJCS/DIA

RUEOTAA/DINSA

RUEN SE/SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

ST

SECRET. CITE CIA 118665.

F.

Well i

Laborator.

Plane & in:

Fat. Ment

Spec. Int.

Tech. Sarra.

Training-

Public Afís Of

Telephone Rix.

Dinstar's Sec'i-

сіів

F1901-312/93393-77

JECT ETE WARNING NOTICE • SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELFASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS • NOT RELEASARLE

TO CONTRACTORS OP CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION

OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.

ORIGINAL I

IN

SUBJECT: ALLEGATIONS EY CUBAN, DIPLOMAT IN JAMAICA CONCERNING THE ROLE

OF CEPIAIN CUBAN EXILES IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHNE

KENNEDY

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO

62-109060

AFPROVE

€ 1023

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

As Sanitized IBH:27-14

KP 2/11/97

NOT RECORDED

27

NOV & 1977

50157)..

GAOR 11

• N/R 783/

HH 50953

DocId: 32141601 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE 2 RUEALIA ASI SECRET

ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOLÈHE CONDUCT OF FOREIGN CO

TIVITIES OUT SIDE THE U.S•

""ry

TER INTELLIGENCE AC-

- 14

2. ACCORDING TO FOUR REPRESENTATIVE IN KINGSTON, JAMAICA

FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE HAS REPORTED THAT ENRIQUE MO N

TER 0.

LEZ CANO, MINISTER-COUNSELOP OF THE CUEAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON, MADE

CERTAIN ALLEGATIONS ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1977 CONCERNING THE ROLE OF CUBAN

EXILES IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY. MONTERO

MADE THESE ALLEGATIONS DURING THE COURSE OF HIS ADDRESS 10 THE RECULAR

MONTHLY MEETING OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA MEMBERS ASSIGNED TO

¿ JAMAICA. THE MEETING WAS HELD IN THE CUBAN EMBASSY, MONTERO SAID,

AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAT CUBAN EXILES SUCH AS FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE

OFFICER DJ A Z LAN (FNUS AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSAS-

SINATION OF, PRESIDENT KENNEDY. MONTERO REFERRED TO THE ASSASSINATION

IN THE CONTEXT OF A SECURITY LECTURE IN WHICH MONTERO CLAIMED THAT

C CUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN. EXILES HAVE INCREASED IN

RECENT MONTHS, MONTERO SAID RECENT INFORMATION HAD ARRIVED IMPLICA

TING DIAZ IN THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. MONTERO DID NOT MENTION ANY

OTHER CUBAN EXILES BY NAME OR ANY FURTHER DETAILS. MONTERO DID NOT

IDENTIFY THE SOURCE OF HIS INFORMATION, ALTHOUGH OUR SOURCE HAD

THE

NH 50953

DocId: 32141601

Pade

3

---

