# 124-90139-10099

## Page 1

124-90139-10099

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90139-10099

HQ

CR 109-584-226

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 07/20/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

N9.1

50953

DocId:32337972

Page 1

---

## Page 2

'pai

ittle

3-12-98

(FERR)

30I/PA 7132

REPEAT

CON.

Tolson

Belmont

DeLoach

McGuire

Mohr -

Parsons -

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room -

& Holloman -

Gandy -

109-584 1816

Date:

1'0:

From.

Subject:

CIA HAS NO ORSOTION TO

DECLASS

110/012

RELEASE O

SEGRET

1291

IN THIS DOTESALE

KP. 1-27-98

Excipt FoR thE bRACKETS

E6 2578BY

hiTC

July 20,

1959

FONIO ANS/OR DELIVERY

7O ASG: ME NEGUEST DATEO

Director

2- 117290)

Central Intelligence

Agency

LAttention: Deputy Director, Plans

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HELENIE CASSIFIED

John Edgar Hoover, Director

OTHETNISE

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Do dassiy on: DADR 3/22/85

This will confirm information furnished July 17,

SUSSIAGCL

2959, by Special Agent Sam Papigh of this Bureau to

81/95 - Tr

Urs. Jane Roman of your Agency

On July 16, 1959, Mrs.

cotherine rooffe, who

has been volunteering information to this Bureau concerning

Cubon matters, advised this Bureau's Hashington Field Office

as follows:

Twithin the past few days Donald l. Hogan, employee

informed Hogon that he was with the tentral Intelligence Agency

and that Alberto Fernandez, then director of the Cuban

sugar Institute, was one of the individuals neading o

counterreyplutionary movement against fidel Castro in Cuba.

Beardsley Allegedly named other persons involved but

Mrs. Taoife was unable to identify the other individuals.

She added that Fernandez, on receiving the above information

from. Hogan, was extremely upset about the allegation.

According to Hrs. lauffe, Fernandez resigned his post on

July 15, 1959, and although Mrs. Toaffe did not give his

reason for resigning, she did say 1 nas noi connected with

the above allegations.

Mrs. Tauffe stated, she would be in New York City over

the week end but would be in Washington, D. Co, on Mondays

July 20, 1959 at unich time she planned visiting your Agency

COPY FILED

to voice a complaint gout Beardsley'Sgotivity.

HUGE

EWL: jIW

1959

(5)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE

UNIT

CONFIDESTIAL SEE NOTE PAGE 2)

ECRET

HH 50953

DocId: 32337972 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"CONFIDENTIAI

Director"

Central Intelligence Agency @le)

NOTE:

SECRET

Ihis communication classified "Confidential" since

reference told possible overt or covert CIA employeed a (U

))

SECRET

-2.

CONFSENITAI

HH 50953

DocId: 32337972

Page

---

