# 124-10217-10074

## Page 1

124-10217-10074

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10217-10074

HQ

CR 105-75663-36

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

STAFFORD, LEMAN L. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/11/1959

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS :

LEH, DESCR, PRISONER, CUBA, REVOLUTIONARY ACT,

NICARAGUA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

70953

8

D001d: 32296298

Page

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MN 97-261

34Y

2) Will verify subject's arrival and presence

at Washington, D. C., through U. S. INS records in that

city.

3) Will, through appropriate sources in that

city, follow and seport activities of subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Copies of this report are being furnished the

Chicago, Denver, L08 Angeles, New York, San Antonio and

San Diego Offices in view of investigations being conducted

in those divisions relative to Panamanian revolutionary

activities.

While CiA has reported previously it had not

been able to direct activities of subject as a CIA

informant, subject, on July 22, 1959

informed he had

dinner on

the previous evening with RALPH MC CLAIN,] at (S)

a Miami hotel.

MC CLAINlis a known representative offs)

CIA working out of the Republic of PanamaS)

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is JOSEPH MEROLA, 2018 N. Bay

Road, Miami Beach, Fla., contacted

by SA LEMAN I. STAFFORD, JR. (by request).

MEROLA is a suspected jewel thief, and

presently under indictment for conspiracy

in connection with the theft of arms from

the Canton, Ohio National Guard Armory, 10/14/58.

•B.

• COVER PAGE

LOCATION OF

ORIGINAL INFORMATION

97-261-51

SECRETI

NH 50953 DocId: 32296298 Page 2

---

