# 124-10221-10276

## Page 1

124-10221-10276

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10276

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-1179

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. CAR

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/11/1977

PAGES: 10

SUBJECT:

OBA, INTV, ASSOC, TERRORIST ACT, VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

08/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 TG, RPT

NW 50953

DocId: 32340883

Page 1

---

## Page 2

REPORT CLASS'S

RET WARNING NOTICE-S.

SITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHO

INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLEL

FOREIGN NATIONALS-

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED

CIA HAS NO OE ECHON B-

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

TDEIRDB-315/0391 REZEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

•DOI:

1 APRIL 1977

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCEpT FUn

BRACkeTS

SUBJECT:

REACTION OF PRESIDENT CARLOS ANURES PEREZ TO CUBAN Jm 6-25-9

GOVERNMENT CHARGES OF A UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

7-31-97

(JrK)

ATTEMPT TO DISRUPT CUBAN/ VENEZUELAN RELATIONS

ACQ:

VENEZUELA, CARACAS: (5 AUGUST 1977) FIELD NO. (HVCJ-7628(5)

SOURCE:: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN FROM A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL

WITH GOOD ACCESS IO HIGH-LEVEL GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS. HE

IS A FAIRLY, RELIABLE SOURGE.

(FIELD COMMENT: ON 31 MARCH 1977 THE GOVERNMENT OF

VENEZUELA (GOV) RECEIVED AN INFORMAL COMPLAINT FROM THE CUBAN

EMBASSY IN CARAÇAS THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT (USG)

IS ATTEMPTING TO DAMAGE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE CUBAN AND VENE-

ZUELAN GOVERNMENTS. THE CUBANS SAID THAT THE USG HAD DELIBERATELY

DIRECTED A FOREIGN NEWSMAN TO CONTACT CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS

IN AN EFFORI TO EXTRACT INFORMATION AND/OR STATEMENTS FROM

THEM WHICH COULD BE USED IN AN ARTICLE ON THE 6 OCTOBER 1976

Or A CUBANA AIRLINER AND THUS ATTEMPTING TO TIE THE GOV WITH

BOMBING

CUBAN EXILES. THE CASE WAS TO BE DISCUSSED WITH PRESIDENT CARLOS

ANDRES PEREZ ON I APRIL.

FOR THIS INFORMATION, SEE [VE} 7626, (S

TDFIRDB-315/

-77, FROM THE SOURCE OF THIS REPORI.)

CONCERNED BY THE IMPLICATIONS

2. PRESIDENT PEREZ IS:

OF THE CUBAN CHARGES THAT THE USG IS ATTEMPTING TO DISRUPT

VENEZUELAN/CUBAN RELATIONS.

FURTHERMORE, PEREZ PLANS TO ASK

THE UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA FOR A FULL EXPLANATION

OF THE NEWSMAN'S CLAIMS,

AS

RELAYED

CL

PEREZ BY CUBAN EMBASSY

1179

43

HH 50953 DocId:32340883

Page 2

---

