# 124-90158-10004

## Page 1

124-90158-10004

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10004

HQ

CR 2-1865-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/19/1964

3

LUIS POSADA

UNSUBS; TRAINING OF CUBANS ON PROPERTY OF WEIR W.

WILLIAMS,

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : AT

v9.1

1N 90953

DooId: 32340347

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-BE eV 10-29-637

-

FBI

IN TO

ND/OR,

RELERAL JENS DOORMATIONAte:

6/19/64

Transmit the following in IN THIS DOCUMENT. extent

brackets CONFIDENTIAl

mKH 2.698

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO: Director, FBI (2-1865)

FROM: SAC, Miami (105-8922) (P)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

AMERISINO ASSIFIED

SHOAN

EXCEPT RIERE

DIVERTISE

Polk County-Florida

2.25981

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/ISRE

DECLASSIF SON: 20X0

(SFIC)

ts 614543(19)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Reference Bureau airtel to Tampa and Miami

45943-

6/17/64.

On 4/8/64, MM 639-S advised that LUIS

POSADA, in charge of training for the Junta Revolu-

cionaria Cubana (JURE), together with JURE members

MARIO, HERNANDEZ and LUIS FERNANDEZ, had recently

105-1

visite lewistone, lore ay con on the so ch ahostoner

of Hendry County, Mr. CAMPBELL NALL, for the purpose of

opening a training camp at the local airport. Commissioner

NALI was reluctant to give permission to the Cubans for use

of the airport property at Clewiston, because the Federal

Aviation Agency might object. In an effort to persuade

Commissioner NALL, the Cubans offered to repair the

buildings on the airport property and

• to pay for use

of the airport but NAiL objected to this. (AXm)

TORS

ROUTING

$211,326

Ciassified by

Declassif.

SP8MA

According to MM 639-S, JURE, despite the

obstacles confronting them at Clewiston, were deter-

OPRIATE A

mined to establish some training operations in the

ANYTOT

near future. The source stated that following

the

SLIP

Bureau (RM)

REG. IN

2-1865=

copies male

2 - Tampa (105-2383) (RM)

for reviewat FBIHQ by

Maami (2-105-8922)

18 JUN 22 1064

(1-105-6661 JURE)

Kei Special Agent in charge

eitrge

Sent

CONFIDENTIAL

M

Per

NAT.

HH 50953

DocId:32340347

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-8922

CONHUEINTINL

contact with Commissioner NALL, the members of JURE

proceeded to an established training camp located

somewhere between Clewiston and Tampa, Florida, about

80 miles from Clewiston. The source further advised

that JURE had 2 teams of 18-20 men per team, ready to

undertake training in guerrilla warfare. The in-

structors were to be Cubans who had been in the u.s.

Army; the source also believed that 2 or 3 American

instructors might be involved. (K(M)

Also on 4/8/64, MM 639-S advised that JURE

has a bank account at the Central Bank and Trust Company,

Miami, and the account might be in the name of JURE or

possibly in the name of LUIS POSADA. The source stated

that MARIO HERNANDEL, one of the JURE members visiting

the arore-described training camp, resides at 7146 S.W.

Loth Street, Miami. (im)

On 5/25/64, Mr. KENNETH BLONDUN, an officer

at the Central Bank and Trust Company, Miami, Florida,

advised that there was no account at the bank in the

name of Junta Revolucionaria Cubana or Cuban Revolu-

tionary Junta, or JURE. He advised LUIS POSADA of 1111

N.W. 34th Avenue, Miami, had opened a Special Account in

March, 1964. The record indicated POSADA had served in

the U.S. Army•

On 6/12/64, Mr. BLONDUN was recontacted, at

which time he made available the monthly statement of

POSADA's account, #4-69-236-2, together with the checks

issued by POSADA during the previous month. Only 5

checks had been drawn on the account during the monthly

period ending 6/4/64, at which time a balance of $18.50

remained in the account. The checks were made payable

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NN 50953 DocId:32340347 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-8922

CONHUENUAL

Finance of Columbus, Georgia for $30, and Jackson Hall

Apartments for $74.45.

was contacted une triod the or en ta, vians ,

operation in captioned case appeared to involve JURE.

Mr. ROTHWELLstated that whether or not the training

Involved JURE was not a matter of operational interest

to his office, and therefore his office interposed no

objection to FBI investigation of the matter lu pen cias 15/all

4803 po/gel 21,326

On June 19, 1964 MM 639-S was recontacted,

4/29/92

at which time he advised he no longer had close asso-

ciation with JURE at Miami, and therefore was unimformed

as to the current training operation by JURE, however,

he believed that the training camp described in the

caption of this case is identical with the one he had

reported on 4/8/64-(4(M)

The Miami Office will interview persons asso-

ciated with JURE for information concerning the military

training of JURE in Florida and in particular on the

property of Weir W. Williams in Polk County, Florida.

зАЛиванИод

- 3 - CONFIDENTIA

50953

DocId: 32340347

Page 4

---

