# 124-90158-10064

## Page 1

124-90158-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10064

HQ

CR 109-584-5444

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO :

CIA

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/15/1976

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32340407

Page 1

---

## Page 2

no che copyof CINN

Capriat

1103/71

SECRET •

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

15 NOV 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

(JFK)

'ATTENTION

SUBJECT

:

:

Intelligence Division

List of Cuban Exile Activists Obtained

the

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION

DEGLASSISICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION BRACKETS

4-15-9

Information on the U.S. persons whose names appear on

the attached document was obtained incidental to collection

of information on terrorist activities.

1.

The following information may not be released to

The extraction and disseminatin the information te

, or contractor/consultants.

controlled by the originator.

It is requested that no

action be taken regarding it without prior approval of

this office.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EASIER

KP 2-9-48

Involved in Terrorism."

The source of that information, who

sensitive usually reliable reporter, has

subsequently

provided the attached list of Cuban exile activists which

accompanied the report received by the

From its contacts in Miami.

The arrows and other

markings on the document were apparently added by the

office.

is being made.

No additional dissemination of the above information

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

"Dinto

REC-86

109.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINEO

HEREIN IS

DATE 8-1094

DE-39

ST. 114

CIOL-0386-76

(EFI

George T. Kalaris

5

NOV 24 1976

ATTACHMENT :

1,

as

above

TOLe copies mada

WARNING NOTICE

For

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES:

review at Fora

AND METHODS INVOLVED

след. of

5 DEC 1 4 1976

0/22/2.

CLASSIFIED BT

064737

EXEMPT FROM GENIRS. DECLASSIFICATION

SCHESULE OF E. 0. 31692. KEMPICS CATECORYE

§ 5648%

10l pain tracts rear ise more)

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIHOD ON

IMPDET

(unless impossible, lasert dale or event)

wW 5095$

DocId: 32340407 Page

SECRET®

AMERICAN

1776-1976

THINNZIN

---

