# 124-90146-10055

## Page 1

124-90146-10055

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90146-10055

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-31

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/0000

'PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

HERMAN ROSCOE TALLEY

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

• RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

STATEMENT; ENCLOSURE, ENV

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32339223

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Atados

ENCOSURE

STORD

---

## Page 3

HISTORY STATEMENT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISGATION AND/OP,

•RELEASE OF CIA IN OMIMATION

15 IS/EN AS SANITIZE

63912

not applicable write "NA." Write

and cannot obtain the answer from

nd of this form for extra details on

tions for which your

have sufficient room.

carefully, illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consid.

3/

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAD

DATE 19/14194

_SY.SPS MI

DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS?

L NAME M

Mras

MERMAN

Teleph

1005.41022

ROSCOE TAM

PrESENT ADDRESS

B. NICKNAME

NONE

WHAT OFFOUR NAVES HAVE YOU USIDE MONE

NAWAS - NO NE

HOW LONG AINE A LIAL CLANE, CB RATHOU MONE

BY NATURALVATION CURTIPICATE NO. NA

HAVE YOU HAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY?

NO

NA

OF NO)

E01LD BEWIN WHAT DAWS NE. TO NEL ANT ON NANAHT NE

IVE PARUOULARS NONE

FOR 190 38-1

---

## Page 4

(2

&. I BORN OUTSIDE U. & WHEN DID YOU FIRST ARRIVE IN WIS COUNTRY? BORN IN US P

PORT OF ENTRTY -AA

→ ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY?

NA

LAST U8 VISA AYR

SEO,

& PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

AGE.

3.B

• SA MALE

→ WEIGHT LAS

NEFT FORE VERD

BIS BROWN HAT DLACK ONION BROWM SONS LaaT ACT

BOND MEAT

OTHER DIStINGUISHING FRATURIS MUSTACHE

See.

8. MARITAL STATUS

A SINGLE ...

• MARRIED MARRIE DDIVORCED NO

... WIDOWED

STATE DATE, FLACE, AND KEASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS. DIVOR

B.50g

B. WIE OR HUSBAND

WINES USE A SEPARATE SI BIT FRE DO MADE BOE ROSAD CIVIS DATA RIGUID

BELO HOK ALL FRIARD MALARIAL.

NAME OF SPOUSE -

NO A ROCKULE MARAND 6

HIS (OR HER) ADDIESS BEFORE MARRIAGE

wowy

LIVING OR DIORASED LIVING.. DATE OF DIORASE

-CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS

tand (556 and Number)

I BONY QUISII U. & INDICATE DATE AND FLACE OF SUTRY ALO

..NA

LOBULTURE

COONTRY NAS H

DHATS OF ONE COVE SWVICE, U. &. OR FORTIEN

JAN IS IMO

TO PRESENT HAS DEPI. OF MGRICULIURE

MD.

(8) WILLARD W. TABBEY DOB. 0-B-25

R.F.D. #3 GANMERSBUNGMD

SEC. 0D

GIBBESPIE

D•QB D•12Đ

HOI - YOU ST NW tH

(DOD AGNES

B MINOR DOB. 5-18-89

OTE BOREON. ST OBERON, ONUO

UPTON & TALLEY

D.D. B. 12-6-341

REDH3 GRITHERSBURG, MD

WILLARD WIELLEY

(BRO.) AGUVE

REDE & GRUWERS BURG MO

US. PUBLIC BEALTH. BETIESDI. MD.

JUDD

MMOR

WATTE WOUSE

MAS L. PETERSON (ReS. TALLEY)

FEDEBEL HOUSIO. WASH. DE.

HUBE SISTERS HAD BROS.

SEC. I CONTINUED

ESTERBE MINOR

H65 48

1860 PEN. ST. MIS

AGE SY

BOG KENUBWORTH, HUE N.E

SHDIE THOMAS IGE SS

SADIE MILLER

AGE 55

689 16 3888 РНИЙОВІРНІЙ, РА.

---

## Page 5

70055

• IF TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAS CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION O

OU, INDICATE BELOW THE NAME OF THAT AGENCY AND THE APPROXIMATE DATE O

THE INVESTIGATION:

IARVE A LOYALTY CLARENCE INTAE®

LAGRICALTURE DaNT®

APRA 1948

SEC. 26. PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMURGENCY!

NAME

ADDRES

RELATIONSHIP WIER

WISHEN DC

SEE 27. YOU ARE INFORMIND THAT THE CORRUCINISS OF ALL STATEMENIS MADE

HEREIN WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

ARE THIRE ANY UNPAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIPE NOT MENTIONED

AROVE WHICH

IMLALYI

DISCONARRD

SUBSEQUENT

ETHER YOU

WERE DIRECTLY

INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT

DESCRIBE.

ANSWER "NO."

IF NOT,

NO

3080 3 088

See.

28. I CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING ANSWERS ARE TRUE AND CORRECT TO THE

BUST OF MY KNOWLINDGE AND BELINT, ANDI AGREE THAT ANY MISSTATIMENT

OR OMISSION AS TO A MATERIAL

MINDIATE DISMISSAL OR REJICTION OF MY APPLICATION.

SIGNED AT

USE THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR LXTRA DETAILS.

BER OF THE QUESTION TO WHICH THLY RELATE.

THE ADDED MATERIAL.

IF ADDITIONAL SPACE IS REQUIRED USE EXTRA PAGES THE

SAME SIZE AS TH

SE AND SIGN CACH SUCH PAGE.

U. S, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE aND

SEC. 4. CHILDREN OR DEPENDENTS (Include partial dependents) s

1. NAMI

•RELATIONSHIP - SON

CIVINSHIP LES

2 NAME

_ RELATIONSHIP SON

& NAME ICQUELYN PARKS HULAHONSHPGOD CILD AGE L

NO SAM BIC ARD

MAURICE

LIVING ON DECRASID LIVING. DATE OF DECRAS

TRUNEY

• CAUSE -

FRISINT, OR LAST, ADDISS ILLINS. MEAN Waste

• I BORN OUTSIDE U. & INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY MO

• WHEN ACQUIRED! _NA

NR

OCCUPATION

MONE

• LAST IMPLOYER

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS

MUTABY SNIVICE FROM NONE TO

- BRANCH OF SURVICE NA

SC. &. MOTHER (Give the same tutormation for stepmother on a separate sheet)

SULL MANS LAURA

ETHEL

ПАву

LIVING OR DEOBASED LAVING. DATE OF DECEASE,

CAUSE

SHAVE OU LAST AS RED CHUNNY MUTINEN

DATE OF BOWS I-1-92. BLACE OF BROI REDS BHUTERADURE MI

CHAINSHIP NE

IT BORN OUISIDE' U. & INDICATE DATE AND FRACE OF INTRY INF

(30)

20782838-1

---

## Page 6

OCCUPATION

MESTIC

LAST EMPLOYDI

INOPLOYEEES OR OUN BUSINASS ADDRISE

MILITARY SERVICE FROM NINE. TO

COUNTRY NA

• BIRATE OF OUR GOVE SIR & & ON MORE

STO T. BROTHURS AND SISTERS (including hali, step» and adonted brothers and sistaralle

& FULL NAME

PRESENT ADDRESS

2 FULL NAME

PRESENT ADDRESS

3. FULL NAME

PRESENT ADDROSS

A PULL NAME.

PRESENT ADDRESS

6. FULL NAME

PRESENT ADDRESS

SEC. & FATHER-IN-LAW

FULL NAME.

LIVINE OL CRASS LIE DATOP ASS.

_ CAUSE

DATE OF BRUH 102A85 PLACE OF BUNT SENECH MARIAND

I BORN OUTSIDE & & INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF INTRI ..NH'

CHIVINSHUP NATIVE WHIN ACQUIN?

OCOUPATION RUNS. A SMALL STOBE

AST EMPLOYER

- WHEE NE

SEO.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

(Nameand Chapters

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP!

Name and Chipter)

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP! .

(Nume and Chapter)

DATIS OF MEMBERSHIP:

25. MISCELLANEOUS

So and Numberl

(Sl, and Number)

(S. and Number)

(St and Number.

BEEN A MEMBER OF, OR HAVE YOU SUPPORTED

ERNMENT IN THE UNITED STATES?

IF "YES," EXPLAIN NA

(sintel

(Stato)

State)

& DO YOU USE, OR HAVE YOU USED, INTOXICATS! LES

BATENTY SMAS TIME

(BBOAT)

SO,

TO

NO

F ANSWER IS "YUS," CIVE DETAILS BELOW

E, LIST BELOW

TH

WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCE 1940.

ONLY US DEPARIMENT OF AGRICMLTORE

20-02264

---

## Page 7

(10)

BARE YOU NOW OR RAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER

TRADE OR PROFESSION,

LAWYER,

CPA, ETC:

IT YES, LINICATE KIND OF LICUNSE AND STATE NA

SUCH AS:

(2) YOUR PATENTS OR INVENTIONS

(3) PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE

(AD HONORS AND FULLOWSHIPS RECEIVED

NONE

G HAVI YOU A

ONSIDERED IN ASSIGNING YOU TO WORK!

ASSIAC YOU TO WE ROW SAY VANE SHOULD BE

NO

I DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATUS OR DISTRICT

AUL UNANT LENSION ON ONER COMIPENCATTON

JOY LILI

YES LAAVE A DOL DSABUIREROM THE ARMY

THUS WAS AN LAMPY OPTHE LEFT FOUL TRIORTO INTERING

WE SARVICE THE ARMY AEGRAVAND IAS IMIRY.

SEe.

14. ACTIVE U. S. OR FOREIGN MILITARY SERVICK

ARMY PAST OBERE SAMERANSCO CALLE

REMARKSS NOME

SOLICINE SAVICE BOARD SUSIE UN KNOW

ADDISS ROBRMILLEMD

IF DEPERRED CIVE RRASON

DRAETED

INDICATE MONORRISH II SULPARY RISDIVE ORGANIATIONS NONE

Sec.

15. CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMINT FOR PAST 15 YEARS.

FOR ALL PERIODS.

INCLUDE CASUAL EMPLOYMENT

OF

UNEMPLOYMENT.

GIVE

PERIODS

UNEMPLOYMENT.

HoT AT LUSHUN THOS

ployment by a foreign government, regardless of dates.)

main a suman earin

FROM BEER TIELB-LNIDASION CU-3

POIS IN ON OR SARM SURE A

WE DID ELM DEERCIR

REASONS FOR LEAVING

Highen fate in came mense

---

## Page 8

(8)

FROM 1-15-420 101-8-12

PLEN WORE SOON CUL

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY CENTRAL SUPPLYSECTION IS DILDE AGRE

0000

KIND OF BUSIESS GOYERNMRNT UGENCY

NAME OF SUPERVISOR SAMMER A GARDIDER

WILB OF JOB CHUBE

_ SALARY Bo

-PER

BRASONS FOR LEAVING TRANSFERRED. TO HIGHER JOB

FROM 215-3 TO AMBRO

LOOLESNNEML

KIND OF BUSINESS FARM

• MANOR OF SUPIIVISOR I WAS MONAL

WHLE OF JOB FOREMAN SELE SALARY 8 540 PER ANNUAL

+ BORING.

ALLOWENCE

FROM

—Чо

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

ADDRESS C

(So and Numbes)

KIND OF BUSINESS.

TITLE OF JOB.

YOUR DUTIES

10050

(State)

.. NAME OF SUPERVISOR.

- SALARY So

Countsel

∞ PER

REASONS FOR LEAVING

16: HAVE YP

EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED T

TION?

DESIRE TO EXPLAIN?

GIVE DETAILS:

NO

SEO 17. CINERAL QUALIFICATIONS

"FLUENT

LANGUACT ERENCH sPRAr

LANGUAGE.

- SPEAR

LANGUACE

SPEAK

- BRAD SLIGHT WIFE

- READ

_ READ

- WRITE

• WRITE

BOWLING

AVE NOS

MIGHT PIT YOU FOR A PARHOULAR FOSINION

A RESULT OF TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE, WHICH

SINCE T-R9-CAL TO PRESAST AS A PERSONNEL FILE CLERE

I HAVE MADLED CONADENIAA MAD SIHEE MARIAL FOR •

THE FOREST SERVICE.

MONE

APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF WORDS PER MINUTE IN TYPINE 125... SHORTEANO

---

## Page 9

(6)

SEC. 12. POSINION DATA

(803 Will Not Be Considered For Any Position With A lower Intrance Salaya)

& IF YOU ARE WILLING TO TRAVEN, SPECIFY: OCCASIONALLY

FREQUENTLY

• CONSTANTLY :

→ OUTSIDE THE UNHED STATES NO

ANYWEDRE IN THE UNITED STATES NO

EAST

AND WEST

SEO. 18. EDUCATION

I SANTA SCHOOL LUTE OR AND

DATES ATTENDED 1922=

HEH SCHOOL 192.8

DATES ATTENDED

19 28

COLLEGE

-NOME

- ADass Ma

MAJOR AND SPECTALFY MONE

DATES ATTENDED -NA

COLLEGE MA

MAJOR AND SPOILTY NE

DATES ATTENDED NiE

CHIPE UNDERGRADUATE COLLEGE SUBIECTS

- GRADUATE 19 28

- GRADUATER 1982

(Statol

YEARS COMPLETED IN F

DEGREE NA

ADDRESS NA

(State)

= BARS COMPLETED NE

= DEERIE NA

CHIEF GRADUATE COLLET SUBINOIS AR

SEC.

MATELY - (Cive residence and business addresses where possible.)

ELIZABETA CLARI AN ASAN

& SETH JACKSON

& ERWIMO WIENER

LOSO DIRT OF MERU.

BUS. ADD SUSANN. WASH

S. DEPO OF RE

• ANNEL GREER

BUS. ADD.MIFST SWL WASH

ROS. ADD. 3219-15.23. 3E. WAS MA

& COLMELLE BRER. - US AD CLA

WASN

DC.

RES. ADD. ANON- 70 CAVE LANDOVER HORS

NOT REFERENCES, RELATIVES, SUPERVISORS, OR EMPLOYERS

and business addresses where possible.)

& REBINALD PURYEAR. BUS ADD

RES. ADD.

MYRILE WE ME. WISH

& WALTER PACE

BUS. ADD.TME

PENNACOAL WASHE

RES, ADD. EN. DONAR WASH

MOUSONG AUTHORITY

8 INHLTER WASHINGION BUS. ADDANTONAL CAPIOL

RES. ADD. 190- SOLSE NIL WASHE

HIDA ABOYD

SEC.

SEC.

20.

(Give residence and business addresses where possible."

& JOHN H RODINSON

PENTAGON WASHE

RES. ADD. 329-D SES WASH

& MELVINL, ERGEANS

ADD. METROPOL MAN POLICE. WASN®

& LOSER HUTCHINSON

RES. ADD.-

RES. ADD. 1821-HALESESH. WASH

DC

21. FINANCIAL BACKGROUND

A ARE YOU ENTIRELY

OF OTHER INCOME AON 3.

&. XANDS AND ADDRESSES OF BANKS WIH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS -NnME

(141)

---

## Page 10

90146-70055

& HAVE YOU EVER THEN I, OR BILLONED TON, BAKEURON NO

GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT?

• I. NAME

FURNATURE

& NAME BELL CLOTHING

ADDRESS MEERAL

SEC.

22. RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST IR YEARS

FROM

FROM

"ot,and number.

(City)

(State)

(Countrys)

FROM

TO

• (St and number)

"(Chy)

FrOM

• TO

(St, and number)

(Gity,

Stated

FROM

- TO ..

*(Se, and number.)*

(State)

FROM

_ TO ...

∞ (St and number)

FROM

• TO ..

(S, and number)

State)

Sinal

FROM

TO

('City.)

SEe.

23. RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES

A FROM _NONE 10-

"City or section)

FROM -

.. TO -

(Country)

"Country

FROM :

—ко.

FROM -

TO.

"(City of asstiond"

County

FROM

SEC.

24. CLUBS, SOCITIES, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS®

LIST NAMES

CLUBS, SOCIETIES, PROPESSIONAL SOCIETIES,

LLONEY GROUPS ORGANHAHONS ON ANY KIND

ANCLUDE MIMBERSHIP IN: O1

WHICH YOU BELONG OR HAVE BELONGED!

DATES OF MUSHIP YEARBY RENEWAL SINGE 1945

DATAS OF MEMBERSHIPS 1942 In PRESENT

8. —

(SL. and Numer

DATES P

MRERS P8.

SEC. 2 MOTHER-IN-LAW

FULL NAME -

LIVING OR DECEASED LIVING. DATE OF DIOnASE

CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS

DATE OF BIRTH

→ PLACE OF BIT SENESH. MARYLAAD.

IT BORN OUTSIDE U. & INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF INTRY IN F

CHIANSHIP NHIVE. WHON ACQUIRED! -MA

OGCUPATION DOMESTIC

• LAST EMPLOYDE DAYS WORT

OR WHO ARE NOT CITIAINS OF THE UNITED STATES:

& NE MONE

RELATIONSHOP • NA

• AGE

ADDRESS

2 NAME -

HONE

CHAINSHIP NA

& NAME MONE

CHIZONSHIP AH

Number oat)

CAN MASHIONSHIDA

(Sints)

Routes

∞ AGE.

_RELATIONSHIP --NA

• AGE,

- ADDRESS NE

(Sinte)

SEG 11. RELATIVES BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF

THE U.S. OR OF A FORDICN GOVERNMENT:

& SAM TAMES

- RELAHONSHP BROL LAWACE M

@WINSHIP NHTIVE

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE I KNOWN GENERAL ASCOUNTING OBERT DE

2 NAME ANNA H LEWIS

SO PELATIONSHIP SISTER. ACE

CIHAINSHIP NHITE

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE I KNOWAD GEARRAL ACOUNTINE ORACE DE.

& NAME MAE

PERSON TWO

@WIZENSHIP NATIVE

(States

Combed

TYRD AND LOC. TON OF SURVICE UP KNOW FEDERAL HOUSING

0-023581

---

