(124-10274-10044) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

i
DIRECTOR, FBI (1058-14704) ss BY 28D i
: : : I :
SAC, WFO (105-1871) (P) : :
. = cH N URE ; :
ve (oosBa) : : eee Sette
‘ ReWF0airtel to the Bureau, 5/1/69.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau ere six copies,
for New York, twa copies, for information, and for Seattle,
one copy for information, of an LM gertaining to. captioned
subject. ~(&

: The confidential source referred to enclosed
UHM is SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE, formar sare

" "The enclosed UM te classified "Seerat” in view 4
of the passible double agent potential.in this matter. ~~ os
counts om Hoted in referenced UFO airtel, the sub ets
: (Bictaasfe ntghed to [OHH STENT, Domestic Operations) | rec)
je. (Gisistensfer crf covert in turn furnished it to former
1) lose business end personal
CY . contact title Noth were ¥ ‘tly assigned to Hong Kong.
(apeeetmes to maintain fraquest contact. with former ca
‘ maa My

On 5/20/69,(stawr|advined WEO that JAFFE is no i
affiliated with the American Broadcasting Company end is
Bach) currently seeking new employment. He further advised that
JASFE had sent LIN a copy of a newspaper article in which
LIN had expressed inter; received a "thank you" reply
from LIN. According estate JAFFE has not prepared the -
letter requesting pereiSsion toe enter the China Mainland;
however, expects to do Bae very es ee :

Bureau (Ene. ae ca Nort RECORDS: ta
Gi-Lesat, Ottawa - 105-1531 JUN : i
(1105-28333 + Former. Ji¥
ee Maw York (105-2805) (Em ne. 2 or
LG 1-135-3315) CP oes ompt tron splat
RETIN aimee eta 2 fF grees 3 i Cine. ppm

‘

ORIGINAL FILED IN:
