# 124-10206-10465

## Page 1

124-10206-10465

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10206-10465

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-154

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SJ

DATE: 01/24/1967

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, DIAZ, NINO, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId:32291189

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

1/24/67

1 - Mr. Nasca

áirtel

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLACO ICATION AND/OR,

HELLASE UF GIA INFORMATION

To:

SAC, Ban Juan

IN THIS DOGUMENT. EXCEPT FoR BRACKETS

MKA 2-6-98

From:

Director, FBI (97-4133) (105-100423)

NOVINIENTO DE RICUPERACION

7/20/81

REVOLUCIONARIA (MRR)

ENT.

IS - CUBA

REASON -PORTE

RA - CUBA

«DAT OF REVIEW

- /2418

NEUFRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

EJERCITO DE LIBERACION CUBANO

(CUBAN ARMY OF LIBERATION)

(ELC)

(HEADED BY HIGINIO "NINO" DIAZ ANE)

cant on sering au

Declassily

IS - CUBA

ALL INEORMATIÓN CONTAINED

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

neBulet 1/10/67, with enclosure.

Attached for each vendolent

copy of CIA memorandure

1/19/67 captioned

In view of the nature of this information and the

request or the bepartment, expeditious an preterred attention

must be riven this netter.

MAILED 25

JAN 2 4 1967

COMM = FBI

San Juan Innediately furnish by airtel with LAM

attached results of investigation conducted to date parti

cularly the information furnished by

Handle by

artel unless urgency of situation demands more expeditious

attention, *(u)

Enclosure

REG 22

159

97-4133-

17. JAN 27 190/

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Calloban -

Conrad .

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

T'avel

Trotter Li

Tele. Room

ZELB

Holmes

Gandy

- Miami

(Enclosure)

New York (Enclosure)

-

Newark (Enclosure)

- Chicago. (Enclosure)

EX-108

3-5-48

VHN : J'S

(14)

OLSSIFEDBY 5668 SLD/KSR

Lauror

(JFK)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

196.

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

NH 50953

Doc1d: 32291189 Page 2

15

-857

ENREC COPY FIASI

---

## Page 3

SECURE

Airtel to SAC, San Juan

RE:

MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MRR)

97-4138

NOTE:

At request of Department we are conducting investigation

In captioned matter which includes allegation that Nino Diaz,

anti-Castro leader, has formed new anti-Castro organization,

the

ELC, the purpose of which is to equip a force of some 200 to 300

men

to infiltrate Cuba and bring about the overthrow of Castro.

in this matterand has previously contacted CIA concerning it•

The CiA memo 1/5/67 reports information CIA received from

which deals with the progress being made by the group

in San Juan and indicating that the Consuls of Haiti, Costa Rica,

and Paraguay in Puerto Rico are attending meetings of this group

no are a tered supporting it possibly with material support

CIA told

co turnish this data to san Juan Oftice

indicated he had been in touch with our San Juan Office

5)

SECRET.

NN 70953

DocId: 32291189 Page 3

---

