# 124-10186-10049

## Page 1

124-10186-10049

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5,0°

Memorandum to MI. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy. 75

62-116395

of utmost important and urgency to... fulfillment of their

missions for, the security of the United States.".

The

memorandum says that a project submitted to Oilk by Professor

Richard Wendt of the University of Rochester (NY) had been

approved by all the agencies involved and recommended

funding the project. The file indicates subsequently that

this project did go forward and Involve human experimentation.

The decula file dealt vith project "CALLING CARD,"

1952-1953, designed "to render an Individual subsezvient to

Imposeiwill or control."

Ebt was not mentioned.

sile )

A memorandum dated 9/5/50 for Mr. D. J. ParsOns,

"FBI; C. Edwards, CIA; and Captain Wilbur E. Kellun of

Naval Medical Research, from W. S. Post, JI. (not further

identified), informed them that a copy of the report on the

"Ellson" project (University of Indiana, 1952) was being

forwarded to them for information. The project involved

research in the detection of deception. The addressees were

to be briefed by Frofessor I. G. Ellson of Indiana University

on the project at a future date.. The file did not show that

the briefing occurred. The project was terminated in June;

1952.

The two files revlewed contained many reports of

restaich conducted concerning various drugs in various parts

of the world, constituting a collection of papers on the

subject by U.S. and foreign researchers.

A: review of logical Bureau files by the Laboratory

Division discloged.only one reference (62-2699-75) to the

above.

This was a menorandun, 8/4/50, recording that

Mr. Alberti, OiI, had Informed Liaison that the Navy had

been developing a new drug which might be used to great

- 6923

---

