# 124-10300-10024

## Page 1

124-10300-10024

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10024

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-162207-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/10/1967

4

[Restricted

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

12

DocId: 32309658

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD,-36 (Rer, 5-22-14)

APROPRTA TE CECIES

AND H7TZD 97A

JING

F BI

Date:

SECRETI

SHIP(S) OR

DATE

5/10/82

Transmit the following in

7/10/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

Mr.

Tolson

Mr.

DoLeach

Mr. Mohi

Mr. Wick

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Folt

Mi Gale..

rosen.

Nulvan

Tuvel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

joss Gandy..

mos tamal to Sellle

9/19/167

1n7Ha160

2• 5J

2- mEX

(Priority)

CIA HAS NO 22.100

DEC

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (105-12062) (P)

JORGE RAUL ROBLEJO LORIE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

IN THRECESMENT, Jm 9-3-97

EXCEp FOR thE BRACENS

00: Miami

HERE U

_AYN

ANTINED

S3172BD

OURIENWISE

Re Miami airtel dated 6/21/67,

captioned COMITE

PRO-LIBERACION DE LOS CIEN

(CPLIC)

IIBERAZION DE THE ONE HUNDRED), IS - CEBATTRE FOR THE

On 7/5/67,

SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO,

35 West 9th Street

Apartnent A, Hialeah, Florida,

telephone

887-7218, voluntarily furnished

the following information:

10-1-1.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD 115R

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Bureau (RM)

(1 - 105-147458) (CPLIC)

(JFK)

(2 - Legat,

Mexico) (Info.)

* (1

105-4947) (CPLLC)

12 - Legat

Ottawal (Iaio.)

(1 - 105-3083) (CPLIC)

2 - New

(Info. ) (RM)

(1

York

- 105-777103) (CPLIC)

de breach

sp8 mar ks

913-94

Clasified y 88BT/ge (TF)

Declassify on: 04

2

San Juan

(Info.) (RM)

3

105-9215) (CPLIC)

- Miami

- 134-New) (Betancourt Collazo EX-10%

Meses

1- 100-160E10

JDH : jhk

REC 11

(15)

АССОТТВШАНДеСТЕХО

7810167 mad

sia de Seriat

2/4/78

la in 3

un r

3 JUL 20 1967

for reviewet v

153 by

C. C. Wick

HSCA re JA/Le Zyequesta

Koee buxILe 14

100=162207

SECRE

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

Approved:

Sent

. M

Per -

Special Agent lin Charge

NH 50953 DocId: 32309658

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-12062

NOCKED

BETANCOURT indicated that he had been the General

Coordinator of the 30th of November anti-Castro organization

in Cuba during 1959, 1960 and the first part of 1961.

Hẹ

arrived in the United States at Miami on June 29, 1961, via

small boat.

Upon his arrival in the United states, he

assumed

leadership of the 30th of November movement in Miami until

approximately October, 1962, when he entered the U, S. Army

under the Cuban recruitment

program at Fort Jackson, s. C.

Subsequent to this, he has been affiliated with the 30th of

November movement in Chicago for approximately two years,

1963-1965, and in Miami, 1965 to date.

BETANCOURT is currently employed as a security guard

for the National Patrol Detective Agency and the National

Industrial Security Corporation (affiliates), 590 s. W.27th

Avenue, Miami, Florida.

In connection with this employment,

he is a guard

at

the

Cuban Refugee Processing Center of the

Department of Health,

Education and Welfare (HEW) three days

la week.

The Processing Center is located in Buildings T-90

and T-94 which are utilized by the U. S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service (INS) in processing, fingerprinting and

photographing Cuban refugees upon their arrival in the United

States.

CIA

INS interviewers interrogates

these arrivals fat this location)

BETANCOURT related he met ROBLEJO around the first

of January, 196%, when ROBLEJO reportedly returned from Mexico

City where

he had been attempting to seek the release of Cuban

political prisoners in Cuba.

He met ROBLEJO through ANGEL

where 2o th wowe employed as waiters at that time.

a coworker of BETANCOURT at the Hotel Fontainebleau

At the

request of ESTEVEZ, BETANCOURT furnished ROBLEJO a table gratis

at the Frank Sinatra show at the Fontainebleau Hotel, for which

ROBLEJO was apparently graterul. As a result of this, ROBLEdO

sought BETANCOURT's assistance

in attempting to obtain the

release of political prisoners and recently BETANCOURT was

made a member of the Executive Committee of the CPLLC.

In this connection, BETANCOURT accompanied ROBLEJO

to san Juan, Puerto Nico,

the first week of June, 1967.

BETANCOURT by this time had the impression ROBLEJO was actually

anti-United States and he considered ROBLEJO a "leftist-socialist."

While in Puerto Rico, they met with MANOLOTRAY and RUFO OREZ

A

FRESQUET

FRESQUET®

ROBLEJO discussed the possibility of RAY and LOPEZ

becoming active'in seeking the release of Cuban

political prisoners.

However, no definite agreement or

conclusion was reached.

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32309658 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-12062

SECRET

BETANCOURT stated that on or about June 15, 1967,

he and ROBLEJO, while

temporarily staying at 2930 Loiza,

Santurce, Puerto Rico,

were having a general conversation and

ROBLEJO changed the topic to BETANCOURT'S current work as a

security guard at the Miami Airport where the Cuban refugees

are processed. ROBLEJO asked detailed questions concerning

the nature of

the activities at this location, to which BETANCOURT

explained that Cuban refugees upon their arrival in the United

States are processed here, including having their photographs

caken, being Ilngerprinted, and being interrogated. ROBLEJO

asked

BETANCOURT if

the Be was there, which BETANCOURT acknowl-

edged in the affirmative, and ROBLEJO asked,

"What do they do

there?" BETANCOURT answered, "They investigate and clear all

of the refugees arriving from Cuba in the United States."

ROBLEJO was interested in knowing if BETANCOURT saw "those papers"

and BETANCOURT stated he had seen them. (BETANCOURT indicated

this was entirely fictitious, but since he did not trust ROBLEJO,

he felt he might be in a position to be of possible assistance

to the U. S. Government)..

ROBLEJO asked BETANCOURT if he could

"photograph. take a picture of the documents or the people

the FBI investigates."

BETANCOURT asked ROBLEJO if he was

"crazy.

stating that if he did something like that, he could

be put in the "electric chair."

ROBLEJO indicated that with

use of a small camera, this could be accomplished very

easily.

Almost immediately, the topic was changed and BETANCOURI

indicated to ROBLEJO he had

to leave San Juan immediately pecause

his child had just broken his collar bone.

BETANCOURT also

indicated to ROBLEJO that his, BETANCOURT's, wife had called

and said she did not have any money in the house to buy food,

etc.

At this point, ROBLEJO gave BETANCOURT & check in the

amount of $300.00, drawn on the First National Bank of Miami,

on the account of

the Committee of Relatives of the One Hundred.

ROBLEJO made out this check' in BETANCOURT's presence and

requested $50.00 be given to ROBLEJO's mother.

Immediately,

BETANCOURI cashed the check and sent a money order to his wife,

ERMITAS RAMON ARIAS:

BETANCOURT stated ROBLEJO had given him $50.00 in

cash prior to their departure. for Puerto Rico.

BETANCOURT advised he returned to Miami from Puerto

Rico on June 18, 1967, and ROBLEJO remained in San Juan until

June 28, 1967.

He recalled ROBLEJO attempted to have him stay

in Puerto Rico and was

"mad" at BETANCOURT for leaving early.

On June 30, 1967, ROBLEJO telephonically contacted

BETANCOURT, during which conversation ROBLEJD indicated he

- 3-

SECRETI

NH 50953 DocId: 32309658 Page 1

---

## Page 5

MM 105-12062

SECRETI

planned to go to Venezuela, Panama and Ottawa, Canada, and

would see BETANCOURT upon his return.

ROBLEJO is interested

in obtaining a Mexican visa in order

to go to Cuba to possibly

converse with FIDEL CASTRO or other important leaders in the

communist government of Cuba in connection with the possible

release of Cuban political prisoners.

Local

stops have been placed with INS in

order to be

notified of ROBLEJO's return to the United States.

Miami plans to locate and possibly monitor the bank

account of the Committee of Relatives of the One Hundred and

any other accounts where ROBLEJO is the authorized signature

of an account.

The Bureau is being requested in a separate communi-

cation captioned "SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO, aka

"Ariel," PSI - CUBA," to grant authority to contact him in

order to follow up in connection with ROBLEJO's request as

mentioned above in the event ROBLEJO attempts to pursue this

matter further.

The Bureau will be kept advised.

LHM incorporating

pertinent data regarding subject's activities will be promptly

furnished to the Bureau.

SECRET

- 4

30953

DooId: 32309658

Page

---

