# 124-90137-10067

## Page 1

124-90137-10067

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/16/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90137-10067

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO:

LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE: 09/14/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

PETROS MOUTSOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32337301 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALI: INFORMATION CONTAININ

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCRET WHORE SHOWN

OTHERISE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

Tolson -

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

TO

Mr. L'Allier

L'

SECREN

McGuire

Rosen

DATE: September 14, 1960

Tamm

Trotter

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

w.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

FROM

: S. J. Papich

DECLARE CATION AND/OR

Ingram -

Gandy

RELEASE DIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

PETROS MOUTSOS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEY /314

INTERNAL SECURITY - GREECE ANDCUBA APTI

IM

6-23-98

*The subiect was

in the communist-dominated Greek MaritimeSN

Organization, NOSHis past activities have been the subject/

of corresnondence i

between us and CTA.

Durina the nact roar

(E)

¡subject's desire to remove himself from the END atmosphere}S).

that the subject in erre i a mer on the so advised

now endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can

order to arrange for such travel, It will be necessary for moutos

to jump ship at New Orleans.

This will be done with the approval

(8)

[or immigration and Naturalization Service: CIA will then hold

conferences with Moutos and subiect will thereunon proceed to

_(5)

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moukos will endeavor to

have contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who is well known to

us and who has a communist background. His marriage to Boyer

was actually promoted in order to improve his position in OENO10&)

de has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although

she has indicated that she desires to live with him again. &

la resumption of relations between the two will helps

MOU DOSL

in Cuba.

SJP: bas ras

105

1 -

Mr. Donahoe

1

Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

989/93

Classified by 9503 182/gel

Declassify on: DADE Au, 306

(968540/06L-3p9(45-JFK)

'7

12-10-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SED/RSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

#E: 505-30972-686

SEP 26 1960

NATIO

SECRED

LET: New Ollears

9/23/60

UHN: wit: beac

1- Baltimore 1 - N40

NH 50953 DocId: 32337301 Page 2

---

