# 124-90140-10049

## Page 1

124-90140-10049

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10049

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3726-63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO : LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/09/1960

1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

MANUEL ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953

DocId: 32338092 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO

UNITED STATES GOVER

MENT

"Memorandùm

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASS FINATION AND/OR

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION,

THIS DOCUMIST. FOGOLO

BRACKETS

: Mr. L'Allier

s. J. Papiche

DATE: 12-9-60

K8 174-97

SECRET

MANUEL

RUJAS,

KA

JAMES BRADFORD STEWART

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA Classified loy

Tolson

Mohr

• Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter.

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room -

Ingramm

Gandy

Sorts

107

BOND DEFAULT - FUGITIVE

Declassity eny CODK

The following information was furnished

the

Liaison

Agent on December 8, 1960, My Clark Simmons fentral Intelligence

Several days ago CIA developed information through

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCAFT

WHERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

technical coverage of

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City relating

to a telephonic conversation between a Cuban intelligence officiald

and an unidentified person

who was offering his services to the

Cubans.

As a result of certain leads developed from this coverage,

CIA initiated

action in an effort to identify the caller. The

investigation disclosed that the person who called the Embassy was

the subject.

CIA in Mexico

then communicated with its Headquarters

and with the CIA representative in Miami in order to obtain background

information.

CIA Headquarters previously had received reports from the

Bureau concerning subject.

CIA learned through its representative in

Miami

on December

6,

1960,

that the subject was wanted and a summary.

was cabled to CIA in

Mexico.

According to Simmons, CIA in Miami had

learned about subject's fugitive status.

from the Border. Patrol of

Immigration and Naturalization Service

Simmons stated that subject reportedly was conducting

intelligence activities in Mexico on behalf of the Castro government.

In his statements to the cuban intelligence official at the time of

the telephone call subject implied that he had gained considerable

Knowledge concerning the plans of the FRD:

being supported and subsidized by ¿IA in its sensitive program directed!

against Castro Simmons stated that his Agency will appreciate

receiving from

the Bureau all pertinent information pertaining to

subject's activities which we might develop from an

Any data which subject might volunteer concer

got, the FRD will be of particular interest to ClAt

10-9

LON:

The above informalAss being rected 764)

attention

e Nationalities Intelligence section and the Investigative

Division.

Litto MM.

SJP: ban

(5)

baa

EX,100

MEC SY

97-3226-02

1- merconif - Mr. Donahoe

DCT

18 DEC: 22 1960

2-15-60

1 - Mr. Eddy

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papici

13826

NW 50953 DocId: 32338092 Page 2

---

