# 124-10274-10011[c06716583]

## Page 1

124-10274-10011

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•pa:

62-716395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(Mr. J. B. Hotis)

I - Mr. W. R. Wannall

June 23: 1975

1 ~ Mr. W. O. Cregar

— MY.

I.

Moore

UNITED STATES SINATE SULTOT COMITTIE (SSC)

TO STUDY GOVERM REAL OFLATIONS

VITE RESPECE TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

RE:

FURIAM. DOCULENIS PERININING TO THE

FBI AND DEFURULENI OF JUSTICE

ORGANIZNIICE, CIRUCTURE, AND JURISDICIION

INFORMATION CONTAINED

BY 502 ALM

DATE

Reference is rade to s2c lotter dated lay 14,

1975, with attached aprondices, requesting certain

documonts and othor inforsation Iron the FBI.

Fursuant to your requect in Appendix B, Items

13 and 14, for all sororando and othor ratcrials reflecting

rootinge and contacts during 1971 betwoen the Frosivont

and the Director of the FbI and between officials of the

FBI and officials of the departrent of utate on the subject

DI "Legal attache:," enclosed are copies of 23 cocuents.

Enclosures (23)

I - The Attorney General

RIM:mam

(8) MENT) ORIGINAI AND ONE COPY TO AG

NOTE:

The Senate Committee request is understood to be a

request for contacts with reference to the legal attaches as a

group and therefore contacts between officials of the FBI and

officials of the state Department pertaining to any one partic-

Assoc, Dir.

ular legal attache, such as lel Aviv, haye not been included.

Dep. AD Adm.-In the enclosures there is reference

to state 'dragging its feet,"

Asst, Dir.:

Admin,

Ex Spurpose for the expansion of legal attaches was concealed from

Files & Com-the State Department.

The enclosures also contain information

Gen. In. — that there. are a large number of

Ident. -

Inspection.

Intell.

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO

Leboratory -/LM

JFK (1) (B)

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv..

Training

Legal Coun.

Telophone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L

CORTE

-111

372

TELETYPE UNIT [

ія

ENGLOSURE 385 PM

EAT LITERIAL ATIACHOD

GPO: 1975 0 - 589-920

---

