# 124-10280-10064

## Page 1

124-10280-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10280-10064

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-7244

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/02/1977

PAGES: 4.

SUBJECT: OBA, CUBAN EXILE, DETENTION, VENEZUELA, CUBANA BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

06/08/1998

STATUS

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32302127

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LIGENG

'• PRICRITY

Intelligence Information Cable

CENTI

WARNING NOTICE

IN 237306

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/DIR NSC/S

SDO

D/DCIANIO

PAGE I OF 4 PAGES

eporting

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Category 58 (1),

xempt from

Impossible to Determine

Date

General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

Autordatic Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, MOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE REPRODUCED

CITE TDFIR DB- 315/03788-77

DIST 2 APRIL 1977

REPORT CLASS SECRET -WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO ONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DO 1

31 MARCH 1977

S DOCENT. EXCOPY BRACKETS

- 2-98 5L0/KSL42-2198

SUBJECT:

GOVERNMENT CHARGE_OF A UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT JEK)

ATTEMPT TO DISRUPI CUBAN VENEZUELAN

RELATIONS

' VENEZUELA, CARACAS (1 APRIL 1977) FIELD NO.

[ни с77626

SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN FROM A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WITH

GOOD ACCESS TO HIGH-LEVEL GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS. HE IS A

FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

*TO STATE: NO DISTRIBUTION EXCEPT TO MR. SAUNDERS

TO FBI

: FOR MR. LEAVITT

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS LNCLASSIFIED

*/ Cogenin

me

41.35

AP 015.977

DATE 9894 BYSPEMAL/EGL

(JFK).

I ON THE EVENINE I SIS DIET

FEZUELAN GOVERNMEN - 221

RECEIVED, AN INFORMAL COMPLAINT FROM

THE CUBAN EMBASSY

IN CARAÇAS

THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT CUSG) WAS ATTEMPTING TO DAMAGER 12 1977

RELATIONS BETWEEN THE CUBAN AND VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENTS.

IN ITS

STATEMENT TO VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS THE CUBAN EMBASSY CHARGED THAT

THE USG HAD DELIBERATELY DIRECTED A FOREIGN NEWSMAN TO CONTACT

CAAAPERESISY OFFICIALS IN AN EFFORT TO EXTRACT INFORMATION ANDY

NH 50953 DocId: 32302127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

805M*: 3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

9.75

EDITIONS

280-10064

amandi

SECRET

copies made

111973.556/j19

Avila

for review at bill by

ESCAre 3/1476 requeste

IN

237306

RECEIVED

(See Ducile #02-117290)

TDFIR DB-315/03788-77

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE a OF 4 PAGES

¡ 58 DETHER DISSEMINATION AND USED THIS INFORMATION SURVEY TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

APR

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE REPRODUCED

OR STÄTEMENTS FROM THEM WHICH COULD BE USED IN AN ARTICLE

CONCERNING THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER AND

CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES IN GENERAL. THE TONE OF THE QUESTIONS

ASKED AND MATERIAL COVERED BY THE NEWSMAN DURING HIS 30 MARCH

INTERVIEW

WITH CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS ROBERTO

RQUEZ AND

PEDRO

O ME Z, INDICATED TO THE CÜBANS THAT THE JOURNALIST INTENDS

TO WRITE AN ARTICLE TYING THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT TO THE CUBAN

EXILE MOVEMENT AND THE CUBANA BOMBING.

2.. THE CUBAN EMBASSY ADMITTED THAT MARQUEZ AND GOMEZ HAD BEEN

IN ERROR IN MEETING WITH THE NEWSMAN, BUT INSISTED THAT THEY HAD

MADE NO COMMENTS WHICH COULD BE CONSTRUED AS BEING DETRIMENTAL TO

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OR CRITICAL OF VENEZUELAN HANDLING OF THE

CUBANA CASE. HOWEVER, THE CUBANS WARNED THAT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT

THE NEWSMAN MIGHT CLAIM THAT HE HAD DISCUSSED HIS INFORMATION WITH

THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS, THE EMBASSY, THEREFORE, WANTED IT

CLEARLY UNDERSTOOD THAT CUBAN OFFICIALS HAD NOT PROVIDED THE NEWSMAN

WITH ANY COMMENTS OR MATERIAL WHICH. MIGHT APPEAR IN THE NEWSMAN'S

FUTURE ARTICLES.

3.

ON THE OTHER HAND, THE CUBANS CHARGED THAT THE FOREIGN

NEWSMAN HÄD THE BENEFIT OF A WIDE-RANGE OF INFORMATION ON CUBAN

SECRET

*iF.

NH 50953 DocId: 32302127 Page 3

---

