124-90041-10023| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J :

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/23/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90041-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 97-3856-13

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA

ORIGINATOR :
FRO}
Tl

TITLE:

DATE: — 10/26/1959
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
CRUZADA REVOLUCIONARIA ANTI COMUNISTA
JOSE RASCO BERMUDA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/18/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : RPT

vol 3
HW 50953 DocId:32325941 Page 1


[) cseapygepnee ee weeeenene een cae enn -
J mat
| a er ©) S-E-C-R-E-T ¢ >)
f: on NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL af
-2- + (CS=3/416 5195

With his‘local supporters through three women who visit him periodically. He
has ‘been apprised of the activities of his followers in Miami and has requested
‘that’$20;000 be furnished to a 40-man group of his followers in Camaguey
Province. The Camaguey group is the one he has charged with making a raid on.
La Cabafia prison and freeing him.

: ae 2
6. Under the orders of ReinAldo 0 Navarro, 6 i has

a cted one | mw ¥’who has a group of followers im

Fdnd has pyma; anfmaniti@nyand dynamite ‘that province,
~ T (Stesnan 2 up of followers

rw gee. in ” Shorinte whieh)

is I -gean} oe wn

4 ged 1D Sauer Geegign Dameoréticn Cote “{IDG; Cuban D. spine mae
\

The'buried arms and dynamite are to be used in sabotage and assassination tS

attempts. :
s) 4 aise :
7. ( 8 also sent_ons/ f contact Mame
BLANCO Navary¢o in Miami. S@ attempting to set up an arms crop :

to the[LDC}St a point 10 kilometers north of Los Palacios (22 36N, 83 16W’
Gnd) nex be waiting at {his point and vill signal the plane making the |
drop with four flashlights.

8, Besides-the two groups in Piner del Rio province and the group in Camaguey; _
Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro also has two groups in Matanzas and Santa Clara
provinces, 1! A .

te

9. On about 25 August 1959 Manuel’ BLANCO Navarro, in Miami,wrote a letter to, one of.
his followers in Cuba. Enclosed with the letter were two messages. which 3] 0,
asked be forwarded to la IS
(BLANCO also
fe informed that the letters were "from his sister( Ss)

asked that) : .
(Sic), One of the messages reads as follows?

» “Dear Brothers : +

I am writing these lines to accompany a letter from my friend
Dr. Rodriguez Couceiro , in whose house I am staying since I found
out that they have arrested Leonel and that I camot return there.
As you will see in the letter, I an sending you a series of instruc-
tions to see if we can maintain the group that is presently without
any leaders, Just as you have probably réad in the newspapers, they
have caught all the leaders in the roundup. This doesn't mean any-
thing more than that we shall be delayed until we are reorganized
again. Only about 100 were arrested, and the group mmbered about
35000. ie

As he (my friend) informs you, I do not believe that you ought
to visit Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro in la Cabafia prison, You should
send someone in whom you have confidenos, In the new contacts that you
made do not use your own name. Use an alias. so that, if anyone
should talk, they will not be able to identity you. You should pro-
“tect the place vhere you live. When you have meetings, hold then at
prearranged places, naver in your home. I know that you know bow to
do these things, but I want to warn you to be careful and use other

objective is to ts able to maintain yourself as the leader of the
novenent st least. until you select chiefs if your work prevents you
‘from leading in Habana, :

We have made contact here with a large group which was not caught
and vhich {s also organized from Autentico people. This group did not
lose its leaders, since, as I say, it was not caught because it had
joined us only a few days previously, This group is almost ready for
action; so it is urgent that you reorganize our people rapidly in order

S-E-C-R-E-T :
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

Kime 0009 Docka:32325941 Page 2

“persons to make your contacts; Dent do-it perscnally. The- principal --—-. -

2



3 ) S-E-C-R-E-T: Se)
‘ NOFORN/CONTINED CONTROL, No
u3° ts “E C8~3/M16 495

ge ‘that Don Fidel may not last until the New Year, In the next letter we
shall send more details and possibly give the main outlines ef the
“budiness, As soon as you have anything to report, use a sourk

cy “whom you have confidence. Do not-use the nama of

: “that name is now "burned", Use the name poe

2 address which you already have for the tine being. I think that we

“shail soon change residence, but I will send you ths new address as
soon as we do. 7

When you reply, use the “1tttle grandmother" (abuelita)
“sitiée as you Inow, @gpSmame" is also "burned®. Mary reennie te all
and an embrace from your sister

: le:

10. The second message reads ad Fount

Miami 21 August 1959

+ because of the treason of Willian
‘TERREZ Mensye!2, the leaders of the. Organization.
have been arrested, and its most necessary that our pscpis be
reorganized so that the movement is not lost, Ths only person who is
able to do so is you, I know that the responsibility is very great,

but I also know your abeLetien, and ve are sure that you will be able
to do the job.

As a first objective, it is necessary to establish _contast with
Captain Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro, He is the chief of our organization
and-will continue to be. He is in prison in La Cabsfia, according to
our information, but is allowed to receiva visitors. He knows you,
since you met in his office. You can introduce yourself as
the brother of, ie will give you names of parsons and instruc-
tions to follow. However, it is very important that, while he remains,
a prisoner; you set up a courier ‘so that you don't hava to make sub-
sequent visits, This would be dangerous in the extreme.

“With respect, to the rebels,.be very careful in miking your contacts,
‘ania one Jesson is enough. There is’ one safe. parson wey you'can trust,

[ey He is secretary of — ie) Youcan see

"ion Sub behalf’ and on thal of the ISS that he will not
nistrust you; you can tell him that the Jast tine ve sav him was'at a
“dimer on the terrace of the ASteli him that 1% rained alot.
Find out from him 4£, OF catmot be trusted, since our
4afomnation 1s contradistory*Oae yery coreful.with the, rebela, “ant dont ¢
make the contacts with then direc Tb is better that you designate.

another Person for, the Bone ep trastworthy pst Wery speveoing.

72° Another, grou ‘you can ointact is that, of|
> in the Rosita de Hornedo. Tell him that: you, were sent by Fransisco.
GONZALEZ, who is in Montclair, New Jersey} that here we are united;
yo (> and that he-should join his group to, our-movement, .T.shalli sand you.”
nore infornatién on this group.

Le on fh
: tot shout-ate9 8 His office is
at| you come eir’my behalf and
to Fécall the las’ of myaai® and the |_ his office;
in which waiwere speaking of CASTRO, “I recently wot? him 9 letter
York, He leads group of followers of i)
y [ = 15 (aie) of the igenpeoin, = =

( YY

S-E-C-R-E-T .
“NOFORN/CONTINUED ‘CONTROL

NW 50953 DecId:32325941 Page 3



—
\o)

in
¢

es SERB e 7 aa
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

-he (8#3/416,U95

ode
You should also. see, 2a the) yy eide
He knows; Fd is a cousin of| (b) he.
So that he dossit mistrust you; tell him that you ars the messenger —~
(envisdo) and tell him to recall the interview ve. had in the lobby
' ‘of the Savoy Hilton of New York. Up to recently he had a group.
: es -
For financial mattera vou/ean. age Sefor| Ih friend of
OL and Sefior | To contact the latter, see
secretary Senor @pi TSO. him thet you come_on my
i. bebalf and that“6fthe word a (sic.) It is very important ios
i that you get together a good financg committee to handle the money. ~~
i problem there. Also talk tc_ _,Sbout ‘persons yéa_gan gee about
| money. Another person that you cai see is\_ igyvita__ = ds)

anes

‘ oat - 'e A 2
You should giso see| Qine chansétior of the
‘or me. He can nsip you & a> above all with | /

if hte gine cousin of}
I “Her name is | nd_hey telephone number Isl _ She
| lives at{ stairs in thel Ff), Apartment
Oe. 7]. receives our letters and can help you. “Introduce yourself
as the brother of [S)No ons else should see her but you; and no
one should know that you"see her. You must be extremely careful to
protect her. \

i
|
|

ey
|
i

and reorganize our rank and file,since the thing is soon.

|
|

ss :

| Weil, I believe that’ this is enough for now. Be extremely careful,
| a (signature illegible)

Field Comments

1,. Previously reported as a Cuban’Rebel ‘Army ‘captain heading a counter-
revolutionary group in Cuba. “BLANCO was one of the chief conspirators
arrested in August’ 1959, when the Cuban Government smashed a plot
against it.

2, Brother and father respectively, of Reinaldo BLANCO Navarroe

t 3. Presidential candidate of the Cuban Feople's Party in the 1958. Cuban
elections. He took asylum in the Venezuelan Eubassy in July 1959 and
was last reported in exile in Caracas on 26 July. At that time he
reportedly said that he would soon leave for New York, ‘where his

i family was.

} In_an_qgen Jettar dated une 1959 at Miami, onef ———SS—s
[ . ka, former Rebel Army captain, invited his
former compattfons-in-arms”to join CRAC.

5. The BLANCO group was reportedly without funds or arms as of 31 August 1959.

{Ina memorandum dated 16 Septenber 1989 the US. Air Attache in.H:

{ ~ reported information from a wife of one of the prisoners in La Cabana
that CRAC had gathered $1,000,000 to get Reinaldo BLANCO, Enrique
OVARES, Gustavo de los REYES, Kuku BRINGUIER, and Dr. CAINAS Milanes out
of prisons OVARES, REYES, and CAINAS are also high-level conspirators
who were*arrested in the roundup of August 1959.

7» According to a memorandum dated 26 August 1959, from the Protection
Section of the American Embassy, Habana, an American citizen who had
Just been released frém La Cabana prison after five months! imprison=
ment reported that a group of ‘approximately )60 political prisoners
and former prisoners are actively engaged in counter-revolutionary
activities, Three hundred of the group were said to be at liberty ~
in Habana, approximately 100 still held in prison, and about 70 in

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NW 50953 Decld:32325941 Page 4


: ry a * at
2 an)
O ted 7
S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
Bioee CS=3/i165495
Qg
open rebellion in Pinar del Rio under former _cornoral

of the BATISTA,army. Among the leade¥S of the group Was one _
0 was said to be held in the Castillo Prison at the times
ag") may be a relative of or identical withy

3)

- Identified by Source as the brother of(_ Ghevsousty reported
as co-ordinator of a group of counter-révolutionariés in Miami.

o

“On 22 September 1959 source reported that this army drop had been scheduled
between 8 and 10 p.me on 25 September. 1959.

10. Source did not know the size of any of the groups.

ll. This probably refers tol i. ported by a

‘In July 1989 to be a leader, together P with ond iC)

bf a Cuban counter-revolutionary movement.
‘was reported to be a first cousin of
| S)the Habana telephone directory
| lists 4 a lawyer, at Habana.
ar o

| 126 Morgan and GUTIERREZ are two Cuban Rebel Army majors who penetrated tl
conspiracy that was smashed in August 1959.

: : a) @)
13+ The Habana telephone directory lists af] Jl Habana
. 5 =
1h. This is possibly a reference to Qeported in July
19h9 as the notary handling thé purchage, pf the

Sey
16. The Habana ’ cephone directory lists af Company of Cuba with main
offices at Habana. $). ) hun
5) LOL teyece
17. This is possibly a reference _tol eported in the Habana
press on 18 June 1959 as an and former
newspaper business manager who yas released by Cuban Government authorities *
on 16 June. | \ehd his eB Shad ‘been held on
charges of conspiracy. A United Press, report dated 2If July 1959 at Santiago,
Chile. said thati” lawyer and one-time economic editor
of had arrived
_ s)

18. ‘This is ossiblv_a velttence tol

19. Wealthy Cuban businessman with large sugar interests.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NW 50953 Decld:32325941 Page 5

}
\
|
2 G. or Spanish pro-Franco interests. The| fas later
‘absorbed by the Row known as the[
} Je
\ 15. The Habana telephone directory lists al jj Avenida, |
| is)
pe & .

jealthy Cuban businessman-with large -sugar_interestse. 0 6 --Ga ene 2a en ee

