INDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATIOI

SEK: ATION SYSTE

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10213-10310
RECORD_SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 149-5378-17

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
PETERSON. LEONARD C.
DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 03/08/1968

| PAGES: 194
SUBJECT: OBA, INTV, TRANSCRIPT OF ANONYMOUS CALL, SUSP, ARREST OF RMN,
LIST OF BOMBINGS, LAB AND INDENT RPT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL Secret NEW.
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: 05/13/1998 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS  Redact , :
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(A)
JF Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

HW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 1


lot

SECRET

MM 149-425

The following information was obtained by SA
JAMES D, HAYES: G)

On February 23, 1968, | HARRY RANDALL CIA Covert,
Miami, (Protect), advised his office had received an
anonymous tip as follows:

3)

(Raxoaiw} explained he did not know the origin
nor did he have any further information concerning this
tip and was endeavoring to ascertain more about this
matter, if possible.

One RICARDO MORALES has a bank account, No.
80-657-9 in the Riverside Bank, Miami, Florida. 951 SW
ist Avenue is apparently the address of an apartment which
had been utilized by Cuban Power, This account contained a
receipt for rent on an apartment which has been used by
Cuban Power. It is presumed this apartment has been used
in the nature of a safehouse.

The foregoing information was furnished to
Lieutenant HARVARD SWILLEY, Intelligence Umit, Miami
Police Department, in connection with their current
investigation of MORALES, who is currently incarcerated
in the Dade County Jail under local violation.

: De) tay

.NSEEEEEEEEnsBneSeseesSeoeoe

HW 50953 DocIld:32294534 Page 2


al SECRET:

MANUEL PENABAZ

:
Re: | FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO;
RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE; KU)

SA JAMES J, O°CONNOR developed the following
information from MM 1119-S on January 30, 1968 X io
t

WANUEL PENABAZ has been in Miami for the
couple of weeks. Om January 26, 1968, he obtained a visa
at the Consulate of Yenezuela in Miami for travel to the
Dominican Republic,- He claims this travel is im connec-
tion with land sales. /y W

PENABAZ stated Hé had clipped some newspaper
articles regarding recent activities of Poder Cubano and
had sent them to EDUARDO FERNANDEZ who is a Cuban cur=-
rently sérving as an officer in the U.S. Army believed
stationed in California, possibly at Fort Ord, PENABAZ
claimed that EDUARDO FERNANDEZ originated the idea or at
least the name of Poder Cubano and PENABAZ mentioned the
idea to FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO and RICARDO MORALES,
PENABAZ claims that TAMAYO and MORALES are involved with
another group in the bombings at Miami, PENABAZ stated
there was a meeting at the residence of TAMAYO in Miami
during the week of January 21-27, 1968, which was attended
by several Cubans from New Jersey. TAMAYO reportedly
showed them arms, description not known, Also, those at.
the meeting allegedly smoked marijuana, PENABAZ claims
ORLANDO -BOSCH has nothing to do with Poder Cubano,
PENABAZ indicated he would be flying to the Dominican
Republic via Pam American on January 31, 1968. >(M)

G SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 3



SECRET

MM 149-425

SUSPECTS

ANDRES JORGE GONZALEZ GONZALEZ | |

aka “Bombilla”

Date of Birth: October 17, 1931 |
(KU) |

PAULINO MARIO GUTIERREZ VIDAL

Date of Birth: Jtme 22, 1923 !

INS Number : Al2 478 993
INS Number: A1l2 891 809

{On January 30, 1968,(HARRY RANDALL,] CIA Covert,
Miami (Protect), furnished the following information, which °

he said was classified "secret." He indicated all of t : |

information is from their source [Oscar ANGULO (Protect! 00) }
ae : JORGE GONZALEZ, aka “Bombilla,” resides at 51 N. W.

76th Avenue, Miami, telephone 226-6819. He drives a white

A Ford, approximately 1964 model, bearing 1968 Florida license
1-123172 (¥ku)

|

|
_| the above-mentioned source 6)* |
received a telephone call at his residengé] approximately G)
en AM from PAULINO GUTIERREZ, inquiri about his, —
Source's, health and conditionlas a result _off{an automobile oO,
accident|in which the sourceTwas involved.| ring the cours
of Che Tonversation{ PAULINO GUTIERREZ mentioned the Cuban @)
Power had just put another bomb (3 few minutes previously (e.
this conversation)} in an office which sends parcels to 3) |
Cuba. No further ay, is Oe) was furnished |

aa

concerning this matter.

On January 28, 1968, @uring the afternoon] JORGE |
ZALEZ, aka "Boubitia, [visited the source's res ence] (9) |
HeWwas interested in learning the reaction and opinion |
Cuban exiles with regard to Cuban Power. He was apparently |
attempting to find out what comments the Cuban exiles had
made and what effect the purported activities of Cuban i
Power had had on the Cuban colony in the Miami aren (ye w)

I< SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 4


SECRET

MM 149-425

GONZALEZ criticized FELIPE RIVERO's statements €
(te the presg\ indicating that it was an open sign RIVERO J
ad sold himself to the U. S. Government. (Reportedly
RIVERO made a statement to the press concerning the recent
bombings attributed to Cuban Power as being “acts of | Hl
cowardice’) GONZALEZ also critized the att de of the |
Second National Front of the bolrumdad 3 ) C7) q)

GONZALEZ asked [the source's wife \ who was 6) |
present at the time (-
recognize the voice 6f\the pe
on January 20, 1968), at appro:
wifé\informed GONZALEZ

also state

MS)

GONZALEZ also stated that some of the Cuban
exiles in the Miami area were of the opinion ORLANDO Boscu®
was the creator of Cuban Power and “author” of the bombings.
(The brains behind the bombings.) 4 u)

The source further advised (TOMAS REGALADO, of )
local Spanish-language radio station WFAB,( Miami, told S

the source that (the FBI\had interrogated him and wanted
to know [if the v of the person who called WFAB was
that of BOSCH. Bes)

GONZALEZ ‘also advised | ;
of the CuSan Power and the bombing @)
of the B-25 airplane at the Miami International Airport ,¢

See
use is the reason (‘they" called him at 3:05 AM Dk 0 By

during the meeting with, (Ss.
GONZALEZ , obtained GONZALEZ’ address, ,telephone
number , and HGe the licemse plate of the car] which EC aAy)

was driving.(%) \Gexu)

wee

L. SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 5


SECRET!

MM 149-425

By memorandum dated February 13, 1968, CIA,
Miami, furnished the following additional information
regarding JORGE GONZALEZ :( S0/i)

On February 9, 1968,

JORGE GONZALEZ, military chief of the 7)
MovimientS Imsurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria
(MIRR). GONZALEZ stated that the activities of the Cuban
Power group would continue. He said they intended to
“frighten” some members of the mews media, such as NORMAN
DIAZ ARTILES amd JUAN AMADOR RODRIGUEZ of Radio Station f
WHIE, and SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO of Radio Station WFABS ¥@

GONZALEZ stated that they knew they were under
investigation by the FBI. He said the only evidence
against ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA during his trial for extortion
was that the threatening notes had been typed on a type-
writer to which BOSCH had access. For this reason, when
Cuban Power had something to write, they rented a type-
writer at the cost of $30.00 for the purpose. GONZALEZ
said that different persons rented typewriters from
different places im order to elude the investigative
efforts of the FBI.( QO

GONZALEZ said that Cuban Power was preparing news
releases which would be semt to the local news media that
night (February 7). According to GONZALEZ, the MIRR and
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA were preparing "an important work
about Cuba” which would reaffirm the position of the MIRR
so that there would be no connection between the MIRR and
Cuban Power, GONZALEZ said this action would allay the
suspicions of ie FBI simce it would appear eet) the MIRR
was inactive. (¥ ey :

SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 6


¢

MM 149-425 SECRET

bombings which had occurred im Miami. FELIPE RIVERO,

of the CNM, commented regarding the recent bombings in Miami
that the only thing a bombing such as. occurred recentiy in
Miami does is to take the medicine from the elderly and the
‘children, RIVERO further stated that when he does something
he signs his name to it. JORGE MASCANOSA, representative of
RECE, would not talk against the bombings, however, at the
same time LUIS CONTE AGERO also refused to make amy comments
regarding the bombings. CONTE stated, however, that he was
against sending any packages to Cuba except medicime.

7 The following investigation was conducted by
SA EDWIN PETER KRIEGER:

On January 26, 29 amd 30, 1968, MM 1264-C was
contacted regarding Cubam Power amd the recent bombings in
the Miami area.

Informant advised that he heard that a young group
of Cubans im the age category of 18 to 20 years of age have
been actually or personally involved in the local bombings in
the Miami area. He felt that Cuban Power was using these
young individuals im that they have mo fear and they crave
excitement. He further said that he heard that ORLANDO
BOSCH is the leader of the Cuban Power group. He further
stated that he believes it is this same group that is
responsible for the bombing of B25 cargo aircraft at Miami
International Airport on January 20, 1968.

Informant continued by saying that a source for
the Cubans obtaining powder for any homemade bombs could. be
through Maule Industries, Miami, which handles explosive
powder and this company hires many Cuban employees.

Informant said that he does rehabilitation work
with young Cubams and Puerto Rican male individuals and
that in contact with them he would remain alert to any
additional problems that may arise, especially the bombing
matters in the Miami area.

O  secrer

HW 50953 DocIld:32294534 Page 7



SECRET

MM 149-425
2
On January 29, 1968, (x09) dvised SA ROBERTC. ¢c)

’G, STRONG that the recent dynam m fs attacks are the work of

ORLANDO BOSCE of ee they were done with TAT O5)C4

On January 31, 1968, at noon, SA SAMUEL W, JONES
observed ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA at the corner of 18th Avenue
and West Flagler Street, im company with two unidentified
Cuban males. BOSCH was driving a Karmann Ghia, Volkswagen
with 1967 Alabama license 55-9211.

‘a
SECRET!

HW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 8


MM 149-425 SECRET

RE: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;
ANDRES JORGE GONZAILEZ~CONZALEZ ;
PAULINO MARIO GUTIERREZ VIDAL ;
JORGE IGNACIO GUTIERREZ WILLA
Date of Birth: Jume 22, 1923
INS #: Al2 891 809

On January 26, 1968, SAS JOSEPH C, BALL and ROBERT (=
G, STRONG, receiyed imformation fromLOSCAR ANGULO REYES]and 5)
his wite, (Ayomap sen ich has been recorded om FD-302s, ue is
classified secret at the request of CIA, Miami Bince LER?
is of high operational interest to CIA. Lr :

The information received is as follows: (¥ U)

Mrs. ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO, 2900 N. W. 92nd,Street,
Miami, Florida, furnished the following intoranston ig [

She advised that at about 3:00 AM on January 2
1968, she received a telephome call at her residence from an
unidentified male caller who asked to speak with her husband.
When told her husband was not home, the caller instructed
her to tell him, “We put a bomb on the plane for Merida,”
after which the caller humg up. She recognized the voice of
the caller as tha ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, with whom she is
well acquainted. (. Y)

At 6:50 AM, the same date, she received another
telephone call, believed to be from the same individual as
above, who again asked for her-husband. She advised the
caller her husband had left for the airport and inquired if
this was mot BOSCH calling. The caller then excitedly stated
he wanted to s u) her husband and. hung up without answering
her question. of

She MN y that she has talked with ORLANDO BOSCH
AVILA on humerous occasions, both personally and on’ the
telephone, and is thoroughly familiar with the voice of
BOSCH, She stated she was cerfain the individual who made
the above calls was BOSCH .( Gdn)

Q SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 9


SECRET

MM 149-425 °

OSCAR ANGULO REYES, 2900 H. W. @2nd Street, Miami,
Florida, made available the following information; (Au)
inent

On December 14, 1967, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,
Cuban exile leader who heads the Movimiento Insurreccional
de Recuperacion Reyolucionaria (MIRR), advised the source
confidentially that the new Cuban exile organization called
“Cuban Power” was being created by "my men im New York City”

and imdicated to the source thgt,he would furnish more
information at a later date. (2 (8

On January 15, 1968, JORGE GONZALEZ, also kaown
as "Bombilla,” one of BOSCH’s Lieutemants im the MIRR. and
Chief of the Military Department of the MIRR, advised the
source that he was a menber of Cuban Power, whose objective ;
was the stopping of the sending of parcels to Cuba. He
revealed that Cuban Power was responsible for the boubings
of the Post Offices at Elizabeth, New Jersey, on December 4,_
1967; New York City, December 9, 1967; and Hawama, Cuba, -
January 8, 1968. He said im addition they had sent
explosive packages to “traitors among the exiles.”

GONZALEZ stated that the top leaders of the MIRR were
running the Cuban Power organization and that within seven
or eight days they were goimg to cause,a¥, explosion which
would be heard all over the world CX i(W)

The source stated the above conversation with
GONZALEZ occurred at the offices of the Cuban Express
Company, 1753 West Flagler Street, Miami, and while the
source and GONZALEZ were em route from the Cuban Express
Company to the “Segunde Caribe Supermarket,” 35th Street
and N. W. 17th Ayegue, Miami, where GONZALEZ’ girlfriend
is employed. Va) 7)

The source advised the Cuban Express Company is
a shipping company engaged im shipment of parcels to Cuba
and the company is owned by PAVLINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL.
GUTIERREZ VIDAL and his som, JORGE GUTIERREZ GLLA, are
members of the MIRR and are close associates of ORLANDO
BOSCH, BOSCH frequently meets with MIRR members at the) (Y)

R

SECRET: “

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 10



“SECRET:

MM 149-425 i

Cuban Express Company office and the source stated that
recent bombings by Cuban Power may be an effort to eliminate
competition, noting the Cubam Express Company is not one

of those companies which has been bombed to date Uk) U

On January 16, 1968, the source again visited the
Cuban Express Company office and talked with BOSCH, GUTIERREZ
VIDAL, and another Cuban male, mame unknown, described as
Trigueno, about 25 years old, 5°6", stocky build, short black
hair combed straigut back, and known to be a member of the
Military Department of the MIRR, During the ensuing
conversation, BOSCH confirmed that a bomb would be set off
by them within the next few days and stated he was then
leaving for South Miami via Highway Number 1 to pick up some
explosives. The source received the impression that both
PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL amd the Cubam male were involved in
this activAty with BOSCH, since BOSCH spoke freely before

them.(¥) u)

Jamuary 19, 1968, the source again visited the
Cuban Express office and talked with PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL
who was alone. GUTIERREZ VIDAL appeared to be very excited
and stated, “The plane from Merida arrives today--stand by
for the next 24 hours--we will have big news for you.”
GUTIERREZ indicated he had beem im comtact with FAUSTO DIAZ,
local mamager of the Compania Aerea de Carga Yucatan, in
connection with his shipping business and that DIAZ had
informed him of the scheduled arrivgl and departure times
of the plane from Merida, Wexice.( ) l

On January 20, 1968, at approximately 3:00 AM, :
according to information supplied to the source by his wife,
an unidentified male telephoned the home of the source and
talked with his wife. The caller reportedly told his wife to
tell him, “We put a bomb om the plame for Merida,” after
which the caller hung up. The source stated his wife, who
is well acduainted with ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, recognized the
caller’s voice as that of BOSCH, K ul

ue
SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 11


MM 149-425 SECKET

The source stated that at 6:50 AM, January 20,
1968, the above caller again called his residence and
talked with his wife. The caller asked for the source and
was told he had gone to the airport. The source's wife
inquired if this was not BOSCH calling, after which the
caller hung up. 7] Uu)

The source was of the opinion BOSCH did not
actually place the bomb on the B-25 cargo plane on January
20, 1968, but that this was probably effected by JORGE
GONZALEZ, also known as “Bombilla,” at the instructions
of BOSCH, (R ui)

The foil
Agent JAMES D.

ing informatica was developed by Special

ES: Gs)

On February 12,1968, (HARRY ANDALL] CIA Covert,
Miami (protect), advised (0s SCAR » Roney goons] the following
information. This information is being furnished on a
need-to-know basis and is not to be disseminated outside
the Bureau. it is classified "SECRET" (

(a February 7, 1968, OSCAR ANGUL during the G)
conve :tion with JORGE GONZALEZ, learned hey" were going
to continue to frighten seme members of the Press, includin
NORMAN DIAZ, JUAN AMADOR RODRIGUEZ and SERGIO VIDAL. Fyncorg) S)
=f further statistics or specific see
oncerning this brief conversati wy as,

NORMAN DIAZ and JUAN AMADOR RODRIGUEZ are
announcers fox local Spanish Language Radio Station WMIE,
Miami, and SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO is Director of Operations and
Sales Manager for local Spanish Language Radio Station
WFAB, Miami, Florida

On Februsry 14, 1968, AUSTIN HORN, CIA Covert,
¢ stect), advised (scat ANGULO) furnished the following
informat on: (S 3)
6)

OSCAR ANG OJ upon learning about the arrest of
RICARDO M LES, ca a JORGE GONZALEZ. At this time JORGE
GONZALEZ remarked “it appears we have been infiltrated".
JORGE GONZALEZ totd GiNcuLg| pe would come to Radio Seasonic)

T SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 12


vr

MM 149-425

SECRET:

p)
WMIE [io talk personally with ANGULO) JORGE GONZALEZ arrived
at Radio Station WMIE, 36th Street and Allapattah, approxi-
mately 9:30 ALM. Gt which time ANGULO was busily engaged
in conversation with another Cuban exile about a different
JORGE GONZALEZ listened to this conversation; S)
howevet, did not participate and shortly after 10:00
indicated that he had to leave because he had a 10:30
appointment, not further described. JORGE GONZALEZ left
‘ Radio Station WMIE without talking over the matter of
mutual interest concerning the alleged bombings and Cuban
Power (Sr

)

On February 23, 1968, [HARRY rE Covert,
Miami (protect), furnished the following information, which
he indicated had been received Fron{ Oscar ANGULO|GS) This
information was furnished on “a need-to-know" basis and is
classified "SECRET". This information is not to be
disseminated outside the Bureau.)

Cn February 11, 1968, OSCAR ANGULO, accompanied
byJORLANDO BOSCH, met with JJAN FERNANDEZ CASTRO, an Ss)
automobile salesman, whan! (at 36th Street and N. Miami
Avenue.\ FERNANDEZ CASTRO toId BOSCH that in the next .few 6)
days h@ would have the most urgent items ready for him,
referring to the time pencils. [Boscu told OSCAR ANGULO 6
not to worry about\(that incident which occurred at a )
residence in the faleah=-Miami Springs area. . BOSCH
indicated apparently the lecal authorities did_not take
down his tag number and nothing has happened; Eberefore,
ANGULO was above suspicion YS

(on F met wit §)
JORGE GONZALEZ

GONZALEZ had been trying urgently to (S)
contact ORLANDO BUSCH in connection with notices which

they were planning to put_out concerning the Cuban Power s)
and MIRR organizations. (Buring this conversation,\ GONZALEZ,

uy
SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 13


; arelon vi
MM 149-425 SECRET

was the incident to which GONZALEZ had 6

veferr ed. 32)

[op February 22, 1968, at 9:00 A.M., OSCAR ANGULO *
was supposed to meet with ORLANDO BOSCH at local Spanish
Language Radio Station WMIE, 36th Street, Miami; however,
BOSCH’s wife telephonically notified ANGULO at the radio
station tha {{BOSCH would not be able to keep his appointment. (s)
At 6:45 P.M., on February 22, 1968, ANGULO talked with
BOSCH by telephone (BOSCH's telephone is 443-9310) andq (<>)
BOSCH said he had been very busy with important matters. 1
Gje stated he would meet with ANGULO_on February 23, 1968, |

at 9:00 A.M., at Radio Station WMIE

(On February 22, 1968, at 7:15 P.M., OSCAR ANGULO
telephonically{attempted tq_contact JORGE GONZALEZ[at his G)
residence\unstécessfully. NZALEZ's sister said JORGE was (s)
taking a™bath at that time and suggested he call back in A
about threé minutes. ANGULO stated he did not call back |
that evening ¥S) : |

n February 23, 1968, at 9:00 A.M. ,\ JORGE GONZALEZ G)
called OSC. ANGULO at Radio Station WMIE ard talked with |
NGULO.| GONZALEZ stated he tried bo call ANGULO |the night 6) i
before, but could ngt(get in touch with him. _ He saidg s |
ORLANDO BOSCH fwould Sno? be able to see ANGULOJon February 23, GS)
1968, because had many important things to do. GONZALEZ
related that on February 19 or 20, 1968, he left Miami |
destined for Key West, Florida, and told his sister if .
anyone called him he would be back in two or three days.
GONZALEZ continued the FBI had tried to find him all‘ over
town. He Said he had been preparing those things which
they had discussed{on February 19 or_20, 1968, not further a
described. ANGULO noted at that time\|propaganda notices Ss)
by Cuban Power and MIRR were discuss on February 19 or 20,
and presumed this is what JORGE GONZALEZ had been referring
to. Furthev, "they" were safeguarding material in a place,
in a boat (foy embarkation) for an attack on Cuba which
the vadio of FIDEL CASTRO would have to talk about because df 4)

V SECRET: aie . |

sSREERDADEESSsagsasesgsnoantsatensesseassossaseessesseeesseassaseesanse

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 14


rn

MM 149-425

this matter will be of such magnitude that it cannot be
overicoked (not further detailed or described) (® i

{according to ANGULO, and\JORGE GONZALEZ advised that he had
met with the FBI and the FBI believes that GONZALEZ had
something to do with the bombing of the Russian Embassy
in Washington, D, €. . GONZALEZ stated he had shown the
FBI agent a gas receipt ticket he acquired for the boat
in Key West. In this operation he would be accompanied
by two people, not further described. Concerning the
gas receipt ticket, above, GONZALEZ stated the FBI
had even questioned the owner of the gas station to
verify his purchase of the gas in order to veri
GONZALEZ's presence in Key Vest at that time.(j AG)

OEFORGE GONZALEZ had a meeting with the FBI, w

GONZALEZ (Stated he\|had talked with the FBI @ w)
agents because ORLANDO BOSCH had so authorized. BOSCH
did not want GONZALEZ to get_in any trouble with the
FBI. GONZALEZ{also stated nel dia not want to be uy
interrogated by the FBI and if they continued to molest
him in his home he was going, tg obtain an attorney to stop
these activities by the FBI. (4) :

On February 23, 1968, (HARRY RANDALL CIA Covert, &) :
Miami, (protect), advised that (scar ANGULO a: cer tained { )
JORGE GONZALEZ was out of town for a few days, claiming
o haye been in Key West, Florida, to pick up some ayms, :
ANGULQ\did not believe this to be true and asserted{he G6) i
Believed\JORGE GONZALEZ had actually been visiting with. ©) .
HARRY (LNU), a pilot in Orlando, Florida, not further
identified. [ANGULO related\JORGE GONZALEZ had returned (8)
to the Miami area as of February 23, 1968.

\W_ SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 15


_ Cuban Power, but he would inform(VILLA FANA, who could pass the

ry
3

MM 149-425

RE: JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU
Date of Birth: May 22, 1936 j
Place of Birth: Cuba
INS #: Al2 844 786

ROBERTO DOHEQ RODRIGUEZ
aka “Domec” |
INS #: Al2 854 781 }

NESTOR RODDA MEOQUI

aka Ernesto Rodda

Date of Birth: June 10, 1938

Residence; 3450 SW LOth Street
Apartment 3 i
Miami, Florida

The following information was obtaimed by SA JAMES D,

)
On January 30, 1968,{HARRY RANDALL] CIA Covert, Miami,
telephonically furnished the following information, which he
stated was classified “Secret.” He advised the two sources of
the information were very sensitive and therefore, this
information is not to be disseminated outside of the Bureau and
restricted to personnel within the FBI on a need-to-know basis.)

HAYES:

(on January 29, 1968, MANUEL VILLA FANA MARTINEZ stated
he had been told by\MARIO FERRER PEREZCths the Miami Police ie)
Department represeiitatives visited FERRER and ATON CONSTANZO

PALAU om January 26, 1968. They asked for. information regarding |
the Cuban Power movement and reportedly asked them to work. as |
informants im the case. Both mem alleg ayktold the police they |
knew nothing about Cuban Power. FERRER(told VILLA FANA he|hed @ |
no intention of telling the Miami Police Department about |

information to\the CIA, and requested this mot be furnished to (s)
the Police Department, because he is well known to the group F

involved. &w

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 16


jtiiiaseee

MM 149-425 SECRET

FERRER said he knew the bombs planted recently
at the package shipment stores were placed by ATON CONSTANZO
PALAU and a Cuban Negro known only as "DOMEC,” He stated
“DOMEC" is possibly identical with ROBERTO DOMEQ RODRIGUEZ,
INS Number Al2 854 781. DOMEQ is a member of the group of
ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS, which was arrested in
January, 1967, in com yim with the alleged attempted
invasion of Haiti.

FERRER also stated the emtire Cuban er movement
is under the control of ROLANDO MASFERRER. (&)@

A third member of the group is NESTOR. RODDA MEOQUI,
aka Ernesto Rodda, born June 10, 1938. RODDA resides at 3450
S. W. 10th Street, Apartment 3, Miami, but he cam also be
located at 3491.8. W. llth Street, Apartment 1.) (u)

FERRER stated he observed ATON, DOMEQ and RODDA on
the night the last three bombs were planted. On the following
_ day, these three were in almost constant contact by phone and
took unusual precautions to prevent their phone conversations
from being overheard. ATON has reportedly told the Miami
Police Department and other law enforcement agencies he has
a cache of explosives, but that it is dynamite. FERRER
believes from what ATON has Ve him, the cache is actually
C-4 plastic explosive Re 2@)

FERRER also stated C-4 is for sale im the Miami area
by certain individuals not mamed in the Second National Front
of the Escambray and others, unnamed, who cam get it from
New York and’ "Mafia" contacts, at $1.50 per pound; sold only
in 100 pound lots. FERRER also advised a lafge quantity of
acid-type time pence from the same sources are available in
the Miami area. (%) uf

Gawxpat advised he desired any contact with QILLA rani |

be made through €1A; however, these contacts can be ma
immediately if and when they may be desired by the vBrCHYt ud

| 7 "SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 17



MM 149-425

SECRET
RE: JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU

The following information was obtained by SA
LEONARD C, PETERSON:

On January 30, 1968, ALFREDO BARAD, assigned to
Miami Intelligence Division, Miami Police Department, in
connection with their investigation regarding the recent
bombings in Miami, advised that PALAU had contacted him
relative to the bombings and was primarily interested in
furnishing information relative to the bombings if the Police
Department would take care of a criminal matter im which he
is involved. Officer BARAD advised that PALAU has been unable
to furnish any pertinent information regarding the bombings and
it is his impression that PALAU is not completely stable.

RE: JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU
and
MANUEL VILLAFANA MARTINEZ
Date of Birth: April 27, 1926

On January 29, 1968,[(CLAUDIO MEDINA HERNANDEZ.) cé)
PSI, furnished the following information to SA WILLIAM E.@
DOWZING : ( ) E

On January 28, 1968, he had a conversation with a
wan whose identity he did not wish to divulge, since this a
individual furnished him the following information after making
him promise that he would not mention the man's mame in
discussing this matter with anyone else. CAG

The source of the information(is a friend of )ATON c¢)
CONSTANZO, who resides on S. W. 4th Street, Miami (believed
to be identical with ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, 752 S, W. 4th
Street, Miami file 2-387). Source advised (MEDINA }thatC Fay
CONSTANZO allows q group of Cubans to use his house for
meetings, both evening and night, but that he, CONSTANZO,
is not a member of the group. This is the group known as
the Secret Anti-Communist Army (Ejercito Secreto Anti-
Comunista) and they have recently adopted the name ©: iy
Cuban Power (Poder Cubano). This source told EDINA) that ce
these Cubans are the ones respomsible for the recent bombings
in Miami, including the airplane at the airport and the i)

oa SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 18



r 7d

7 SK, “n
(

ite /
MM 149-425 | SECRET

business places in Southwest Miami. According to iro mna COD
the source did not mention any of the out of town bombin)

‘and, not wishing to appear too inquisitive, he did not

inquire about thats )

i The source told WEDINA Ithat the leader of this group, CC)
now known as Cuban Power, is MANUEL VILLAFANA who has worked
for CIA for many years and is still directly employed by CIA.

: The other members of the group are not believed to be connected

» with CIA at this time, although many of them probably were
im the past .(

The source told(WEDINAJ that VILLAFANA and nis CC
associates have plemty of C-4 and C-5 and the know-how to
» use it. Ck

ip ina} stated he had no further information ce3
concerning this“matter at present, but he will attempt to
. Obtain more details and corroborating information (4

pe VILLAFANA is the subject of Miami File
105-2615. [This is » dead file which shows only thats
VILLAFANA an 19604(@YS/

Miami file 62-3573 contains background information
pertaining to VILLAFANA as follows:

MANUEL VILLAFANA MARTINEZ
Date of Birth: April 27, 1926
Place of Birth: Camaguey, Cuba

« Parents: RAFAEL VILLAFARA TURINO ~
OLEMA MARTINEZ ROURA
Residence: Miami =
Occupation: Air Force Pilot

Im March, 1959, he was assigned to Mexico
as Military and Air Attache with the rank
of Captain.

Im 1963, VILLAFANA was one of many Cubans forbidden
by INS to leave the United States.

There are no recent references on VILLAFANA.

SECRET
AA é

u =

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 19



ae)

rans rN
¢

MM 149-425 SECRE]

RE: ARTURO CARABALLO :
cuco (LNU)
ARMANDO FLEITES _

The following informant report was obt, d February
5, 1968, by SA JOHN E, MC HUGH fron fn 1248 Par @)

CUCO (LNU) has been attending the classes on
Tuesday and Thursday nights at 315 N. E. 23rd Street.

ARTURO CARABALLO has beem the imstructor in the class on
the handling of explosives, including C-4. (¢ 5 u)>

ARTURO CARABALLO is well pleased with the progress
that CUCO (LNU) has been making, and indicated that if his
services were ever needed he could be relied upon to do a
good job. CUCO (LNU) seems to have the aptitude for the
handling of explosives. NG u)

CUCO (LNU) is described as follows:

Sex: Male

Race: ~ White

Nationality: Cuban

Age: Early 20's

Height: 5'9”

Weight: : 200

Build: Husky

Hair: Black Xu)

On February 6, 1968, MAX LESNICK, who was currently
publishing a newspaper, “La Replica,” in Miami, stopped by the
office of the Second National Front of the Escambray to confer
with ARMANDO FLEITES. LESNICK questioned FLEITES as to who
was behind Cuban Power. FLEITES told LESNICK that he felt the
Cubans supporting ex-President FULGENCIO BATISTA were responsible
for the bombings. LESNICK did not agree with the opinion
expressed by FLEITES and LESNICK. thought it was a group from
some revolutionary organization against CASTRO, but not
necessarily Batistiamos. When LESNICK left the office,
FLEITES remarked that he just gave that answer to LESNICK
to try to confuse him. FLEITES admitted he was in agreement
with the bombings, but did not indicate he was participating

in then. % eS) (Y

DD seoreT

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 20


af

MM 149-425 SECRET {

RE: RAMIRO DE LA FE
aka Captain Anton

The following information was developed on February 8,
1968, by SA WILLIAM P, KELLY from PCI JOHN ALEXANDER O'CONNELL:

On February 8, 1968, PCI had a conversation with
Haitiam Consul at Miami, EUGENE MAXIMILIEN. MAXIMILIEN .
claimed that "Captain ANTON,” a white male Cuban, 34-36 years, \
about 6°1", or somewhat less, heavy build, dark hair, was ‘
recently convicted im Federal Court, Miami, in connection with
the hijacking of a U. S. ship off Miami Beach. MAXIMILIEN stated
“Captain ANTON” was the leader of the hijackers. (This may be
referring to RAMIRO DE LA FE, one of the subjects in Miami i
file 45-1127.)

Regarding “Captain ANTON,“ MAXIMILIEN stated that
this individual is currently locally engaged in "shaking
down" (extorting) money from unidentified Latin American Consuls
-in Miami. MAXIMILIEN further stated that he believes “Captain
ANTON" to be the person responsible for recent bombings in the
Miami area, including the bombing of the Mexican Consul's home,

According to MAXIMILIEN, "Captain ANTON" drives a
1961 or 1962 Chevrolet, bearing Florida license 18W2221.

On January 29, 1968, S109) sfrurnisned the foltowing(@)
report to SA ROBERT G, STRONG:

|
There have been several exchanges of impressions and |
discussions among RAUL. GRAMATGES, PEDRO FERREIRO and MARTINIANO
ORTA, motivated by recent events in Cuba and here in Miami.
Because of comments and opinions expressed in anti-CASTRO
| revolutionary groups in Miami, it is supposed that the recent
dynamiting attacks are the work of one of these groups:

(1) MVI.R.R, of ORLANDO BOSCH (if they were (u)
done with TNT).

~,- SECH
EE CRET -

acah —/

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 21


~ : Nt

SECKEL

MM 149-425

RE: SERGIO FREIJO, aka., Sergio Freijo y Dedia, Carlos
Salgado-Suarez, DOB 7/21/24, Havana, Cuba,
Social Security #457-70-8161

The following imvestigation was conducted by
SA JAMES D. HAYES: i

On January 25, 1968, MM 724-S, an individual
acquainted with certain phases of both pro and anti-CASTRO
activities im Cuba and the United States, advised SERGIO
FREIJO was im the Miami area while released on bond in
connection with the hijacking of the freighter transport.

He stated FREIJO is am explosives expert and was well known
in Cuba for his terrorist activities. He also advised
FREIJO had been in contact with members of the Cuban Youth of
Ft. Jackson, an anti-CASTRO organization. ( ) A

HM 724-S recalled that the Cuban Youth of Fort
Jackson group had seriously considered dividing into small
cellular units im order to undertake positive action
purportedly against commumism and FIDEL CASTRO. Im this
connection, they plammed to use codes, which included the
names of individuals who were actually im Cuba as pseudonyms,
for either an operation or members of a cell. The organization
planned to organize im a secretive active group within the
organization with not more than 4 or 5 mem to a cell im this
inter-group. Im order to maintain their anonymity, ome cell
would undertake a certain project for a short period of time
and then cell number two would follow for another brief
period of time and thereafter cell number three and number
four, etc. Each time the cell which just completed the
activity would move to the bottom of the list and become
completely inactive im every respect. This is being done
for a two-fold purpose: (1) to continue secrecy regarding
the objectives, including secrecy among its own members and
even between cells and (2) to prevent the local and/or
Federal authorities from discovering their purpose and

identity. & icy

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 22


af

SEChL.

MM 149-425

ERNESTO DE LA FE, described as coordinator of
"Los Accionistas de Cuba” (Actionists of Cuba) reportedly
sent @ communication to SERGIO FREIJO, giving FREIJO the
signal to start activity against communism and CASTRO. No
further details were mentioned in this comnection. MM 724-S
said ERNESTO DE LA FE is the brother of ROMERO DE LA FE, who
is currently im the Miami area, released on bond from his
arrest im commection with the hijacking of the "freighter
transport.” ERNESTO was the Minister of Press and Propaganda
im the BATISTA Govermment and General Secretary of an anti-
communist organization. He is rrently serving a 30 year
sentence im prison in Guba (4) V)

MM 724-S believed SERGIO FREIJO has recently been
im contact with Cuban news reporter BENJAMIN DE LA VEGA, who
may be aware of the reported communication received by
FREIJO from ERNESTO DE LA FE -( W

The following information-was obtained from PCI
JESUS DIEGUEZ on February 23 and 27, 1968, by SA JAMES J.
O*CONNOR: -

BCI related that SERGIO FREIJO “is the type to
work with Boder ¢ ano", About a month ago FREIJO, who is
employed at Aer » called PCI and inquired if the latter
knew of a place in which a person could be hidden out. A
few months previously FREIJO imquired if PCI could obtain
explosives. HCI stated he replied im the negative to
inquiries by FREIJO and that he did mot ask FREIJO what was
going on,

PCI advised that FREIJO has known him since Cuba.
During the revolutionary activity against President BATISTA,
FREIJO was involved in a plot to kill a comsiunist. orgamizer
named FABIO GRAUBART, and, at that time, FREIJO was hidden
by a group which included the PCI,

PCI had lived in Chicago prior to the hijacking
of the freighter “freight Forwarder" at Miami about

September, 1967 by a group of Cubans headed by RAMIRO DE
LA FE, ©

LL ‘SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 23



MH 149-425 “SECRET

RE: {us 92-8] (u)

The following information was obtained by SA JAMES
D. HAYES from MM 492-S and other sources close to this

informant (9) a7) . (u)

On February 1, 1968, MM 492-S advised] ANTONIO ARIAS
announced over Spanish language radio station WFAB, Miami, at
7:50 AM, February 1, 1968, another Cuban Power communique
had.been received at this radio station. |. ;

On February. 1, 1968, ANTONIO ARIAS advised bulletin
number 2 of Cuban Power had beem received at the station
earlier that morning and he had made the ammouncement over the
radio .om one occasion concerning its receipt at the station.
He advised he received it from OMAR MARCHANTE, employee, WFAB,
who was on duty during the hours of 1AM to 5AM. MARCHANTE
informed ARIAS the envelope had beem pushed under the front :
door of the station and he had opened it amd givem it to ARIAS. !
MARCHANTE indicated he believed the envelope was left at the i
station at approximately 3:22 AM, February 1, 1968. ARIAS |
advised he had left the envelope and the bulletin in a
special cabinet, for SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO who was in charge of
the station. ()(U)

On February 1, 1968, SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO, Vice-
President of the United Broadcasting Company of Florida and
Director of Operations and Sales Manager of the Spanish
“ lamguage radio station WFAB, Miami, personally appeared
at the Miami Office. Be furnished bulletin number 2 of
Cuban Power and the envelope, explaiming he did not believe
anyome else had touched it except ARIAS and MARCHANTE, He !
also made available a four page notice given to him by ‘
ISRAEL SOTO BARROSO on January 26, 1968. He noted SOTO
BARROSO had expressed a desire to personally appear on the
radio over WFAB but because of his communist background and 1
the fact he is a controversial figure curremtly associated with i
FELIPE RIVERO and the Cuban Nationalist Association, VIDAL
was holding this request im abeyamce. SOTO BARROSO was :
accompanied by MIGUEL SAN PEDRO at the time he talked with . :

SN es

NN SECREP |

asastd eeenpeatapeaagae idsaatastnsaiaeacaseoaile ee a

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 24


WM 149-425 SECRET)

On February 1, 1968, MM 492-S advised a meeting was
held om this date of the Cuban Pharmacists im Exile concerning
the recent bombings attributed to this Cuban Power. He
stated 29 individuals attended this meeting, including owners,
managers or their representatives of various pharmacies in the
Miami area. There was a great difference of opinion among
these individuals concerning the sending of parcels to Cuba;
because of this controversy a committee was. formed consisting
of the representatives of the organization of Cuban Pharmacists
in Exile, including ANDRES RODRIGUEZ, owner of Andres Pharmacy,
9th Avenue and West Flagler; CARLOS ACOSTA, Highland Park
Pharmacy, 9th Street and NW 7th Avemue; Samta Clara Pharmacy,
8th Street and S. W. 23rd Avenue; “ANTORITO,” representative
of the Hialeah Pharmacy. This committee was instructed to
prepare a manifesto for the press in the next day or so
concerning a policy to be practiced by all members of this
organization of Cuban Exile Pharmacists concerning the sending
of parcels to Cuba. &

WM 492-S believed the manifesto will state the
pharmacists will continue to send parcels to Cuba, however,
they will be limited exclusively to sending medicine and
Small socks for small children. The socks, which are not
available im Cuba, cam help to clothe youngsters but also help '
im the packing of the medicines. Further, MM 492-S believes t
they will strictly oppose the sending of any radio, Hl
electrical or automotive parts to Cuba. Further, mews has
been received frou Cuba that FIDEL CASTRO’s communist govern~
ment of Cuba has reportedly not permitted any packages to be
delivered to the recipients im Cuba since the bombing of the
Havana Post Office, Jamuary 8, 1968. Therefore, it is
believed no parcels will actually be semt to Cuba by the
pharmacists umtil they have been assured by relatives in Cuba
that packages are beimg received by these relatives in mace |)

On February 1, 1968, (FNU) CEPERO, co-owner of
Warfield Drugstore, 27th Avenue WN. W. near 7th Street,
advised they had received a threatening call concerning the

sending of packages Cuba a week or s© ago, No further
details avaliable eA) :
On February 1, 1968, VIRGILIO (LNU), co-owner of i
Warfield Drugstore, confidentially advised MH 492-5 he :
believes ROLANDO MERULO, member of the CNM, might possibly |
be involved im the threat concerning ceasing of sending ° \
parcels to Cuba. He stated OTTO MERULO, brother of RoLanpo, (xf w)

i
FPP SECRET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 25


Vas ran

mee SECRET

is reportedly serving a 15 year sentence in prisom in Cuba.
However, OTTO is reportedly the indoctrinator of Communism
to the prisoners, WV)

VIRGILIO (LNU) also informed MM 492-S one night
he received an anonymous call trying to scare him into not
sending packages to Cuba. Whem he asked the anonymous
caller why he should not send and indicating that he would
contimue to do so until he is forced to stop, the caller
hung up. VIRGILIO believed highly significant and possibly
more than mere coincidence the following morning ROLANDO
MERULO and another member of the staff of the newspaper
“El Nacionalista” appeared at the store attempting to sell
am ad for the “El Nacionalista” newspaper. VIRGILIO stated
they took an ad im the paper at that time. He also advised
MIGUEL SAN PEDRO, active leader of the CNM, is a customer
at the Warfield Drugstore. VIRGILIO described the anonymous
caller as a Cuban male who spoke perfect Spanish with Cuban
inflection, He did mot know the name of the imdividual but
imdicated the voice seemed very familiar to him and he would
remain alert should he hear this voice again. U

On February 5, 1968, MM 492-S furnished JAMES D,
HAYES the following report on Cuban Power and bombings in the
Miami area, alomg with imformant’s comments and conclusions:

fhe newspaper "PATRIA," which is directed by
ARMANDO GARCIA SIFREDO, has always been opposed to
terrorism, possibly because SIFREDO was one of the first
victims of gunmem and terrorism in Miami. First, there was
a bomb which exploded in fromt of his house some time ago.
Then, he was playing dominoes on the porch of the home of
his friend, VIVANCOS, S. W. Sth Avenue. between 3rd and 4th
Streets, and several shots were aimed at him from am auto.
Later, another bomb exploded under his car. Om another i
occasion, an unknown person hit him with his fists as he
was leaving a restaurant, amd for a long time he received
telephone calls from anonymous persons who threatened to
kill him because of the partiality shown in his newspaper
“PATRIA” which sometimes defended General BATISTA amd. his
friends, at other times opposed the Fidelistas, possible :
imfiltrees, the people who keep coming im, etc. (UY)

SEC
é) Q RET

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 26


MM 149-425 SECRET:

SOTO BARROSO spoke of unity as a basis, and he
considered FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ and CARLOS MARQUEZ STERLING as
the best leaders, alomg with mem like JOAQUIN MARTINEZ SAENZ
and others. He said that the factory workers will join
RIVERO and MARQUEZ STERLING and other organizations will
continue to get closer to these two figures, jim exile in order
to form complete wiity among the exiles. KGS

On the afternoon of February 5, 1968, sometime after
5, the Continental News Broadcast, which is directed by
Commentator NORMAN DIAZ on WMIE, announced that it was going
to transmit a letter from Cuban Power, and since MM 492-S
could mot get in touch with the comtact there, he prepared a
recording and was able to yecord the reading of the document
signed by Cuban Power .(¥)

He advised he had the reel with the tape o: hich
all the items which were broadcast were recorded. U

He advised he could tell in advance that Cuban
Power took the blame for the bomb which exploded in Havana,
Cuba, for the others, and for the ome which exploded under
the plame at the Miami Airport, but refused to take the blame
for the bomb placed under the auto of the Mexican Consul in.
Miami, Mr. REYES SPINDOLA, and explains that it did mot
participate in others. We do not know which ones they are

referring Ke Un)

: NORMAN DIAZ has the letter referred to, but source
has not been able to speak to him. Neither has he been able
to talk to SERGIO VIDAL to find out. if pe also received the
press memorandum from Cuban Power . (CZ)

It appears that Cuban Power is somewhat frightened

by the investigations and the action of justice, and this may
be the reason for the document which was broadcast on the

afternoon of February 5, 1968, according to MM OL W

VV secper

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 27



i 149-498 SECRET

RE: Anonymous Telephone call to
Radio Station WQAM, regarding
the bombings im Miami om
January 25, 1968

ROBERT KAY, Anmowncer, WQAM Radio Station, Miami,
Florida, received a telephone call at 5:30 AM, January 25,
1968, which conversation was recorded by KAY,

On January 29, 168, fi [1115] 5] tstenea to this (©) }
recording and stated the caller sotndée ike that of
ANGEL ESTEVEZ of the Second National Front of the Escambray

(SNFE). However, the informant could not. be definite in his
identification. } 4

WM 1249-PSI listened to the recording on January
29, 1968. This informant stated the voice of the anonymous
caller sounded like that of ERNESTO LEDO of the Cuban
Nationalist Association (CNA) which is headed by FELIPE
RIVERO. informant stated he could not make a positive.
identification regarding the anonymous caller.

On January 26, 1968, TOMAS GARCIA FUSTE, who has 4
requested his identity be protected, who is Assistant Station
Manager and Ammouncer of Radio Station WFAB, reviewed the
recording of the anonymous caller. FUSTE was unable to
identify the amonymous caller. |

co

On January 26, 1968, OSCAR ANGULO REYES, 2900
N. W. 92nd Street, Miami, a Radio Anmouncer for Radio
Station WHIE, Miami, amd his wife, listened to the taped
recording of the anonymous caller. ANGULO and his wife *
tentatively identified the voice ofthe caller as that of
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, with whom they are acquainted. (aAXxcoLo
is of highly operational interest to CIA and CIA has
requested his name be protected 1(W)G ) |

W/W SECRET

ae §

HW 50953 Docld:32294534 Page 28
