# 124-10224-10189

## Page 1

124-10224-10189

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10224-10189

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-81, 82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/28/1962

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY, MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId:32298909

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Dayuy Assistant Secretary for Security

Department. of state

United States Customs and Border Patrol

representatives in Miami were furnished the above

information

1 summary of the foregoing data, except for

Isker, Department of the Alf Force; Enistgn B. Bo Lawrence,

department of the Navyi Major D. l Brinson, Department of

the Armys and Major Co

by Mr.

Co stad, Defense Intelligence Agency,

To Ho Nasco of this Bureau on October 27, 1962.

1 - Direotor

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plons

1 • Assistant Chief of stait for Intelligence

Department of the Army

Attentions Chief,

security Division

1 - Director of Naval Intelligence

1 • Office of Special Investigations

Air Force

Attention&

Chief, Counterintelligence Division

1 • Chief

Current Intelligence/Indications Center

Defense Intelitgence Agency

The Fentagon

Washington 25, D. Co

I - Deputy Commisstoner

Division of Investigations and Inforcement

Bureau of Customs

2 = The Commissioner

Immigration and Naturalization Service

I Mr. Dwight E. Avts

Director

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division

Internal Revenue Servioe

• 2 .

Washington 25, Do C.

NH 50953 DocId: 32298909 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

ĐCT 27 1962

TELETYPÉ

SECRET

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmony.

Mr. Mohit

Mr. Casper.-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad...

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale.

12/22/44

DEGLASSIFY

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.--

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss

URGENT

10-27-62

355

•CA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Gandy-

Cita It:

DIRECTOR

/ 105-72630/

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE O$ CIA INFORMATIE

* SHOWAS

FROM SAC, MIAMI

IN THIS DOCUMENP. EXCEpt FOR thE IRACUsS

CLORO LUIS RESTATE IS - CHAND SITATE PETERS, ON pa pa a

RE MIAMI TEL TEN TWENTYSIX SIXTYTWO ENTITLED WILLIAM

MKH 2-60-98

JOHNSON, CARLOS HEVIA, UNSUBS, NEUTRALITY MATTER. "

I THIS MORNING, MM SIX THREE FIVE - S ADVISED THAT SUBJECT-S

BROTHER, MARCOSXPIAZ

KLANZ, AND CARLOSYCARCIA, BOTH CUBAN

Cribe

EXILES ASSOCIATED WITH

SUBJECT, DISCLOSED THAT GROUP UNDER

LEADERSHIP SUBJECT PLANS DEPART MIAMI TONIGHT WITH TWO BOATS

THE EIGHTYTHREE. FOOT "QUSA" AND A SPEEDBOAT "MOPPIE" FOR CAY

SAL, BRITISH" BAHAMAS, ISLAND LOCATED ABOUT FORTY MILES NORTH

OF CUBA•

GROUP INCLUDES MARC

DIAZ, CARLOS GARCIA,

FERNANDO

ReASONI

CABEZAS AND OTHER UNIDENTIS

73630-

BEEN INVOLVED IN NUMEROUS CUBAN REVOLUZI CONRYAADVENTURES.

GROUP PLANS CARRY AUTOMATIC RIFLES AND MAGHINE GUNS - AFTER

ARRIVING ÇAY SAL, A SMALL CONTINGENT FROM THIS GROUP WILL

END PAGE ONE

3-14-48-

NCLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUA/ORG

Sle, i one

included in

10-79-62

DECLASSIFY SPIL

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

0/91-6

1N 30953 Doc1d:32298909 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE TWO

mappie

DEPART ON THE -99083"

UNKNOWN TO INFORMANT.

FOR DESTINATION AND OBJECTIVE IN CUBA,

CABEZAS CLAIMED HAVE CIA CONNECTIONS, ACCORDING INFORMANT •

TODAY CIA, MIAMI, ADVISED IT HAS NO INTEREST IN THIS OPERATION

AND DESIRED OPERATION BE STOPPEDER U)

LABOVE FACTS FURNISHED U. S• CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL.

MIAMI CONDUCTING NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION BUT WILL MAINTAIN

LIAISON APPROPRIATE AGENCIES AND WILL PROMPTLY ADVISE BUREAU

PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS•

FOR INFO BUREAU, INFORMANT POSSESSED NO EVIDENCE INSTANT

MATTER RELATED TO PLANS OF WILLIAM JOHNSON AND CARLOS HEVIA

MENTIONED IN REFERENCED TEL®

CORR PE 2 LINE ONE WD I SED BE "OPPTE"

END AND ACK PLS

57 pintima wally fremanted to

5143

PM OK FBI WA WS

OST 1. COLEUCEAESKER

ONE

ENSIGN: B.3: AAWRENCE

TU" DISC

ASE MAJOR RY: BRUNSON

DIA MOLLISTA

TRIA BARRY SANDALS

ITATE RA LAUGHTON

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

10/27/120 bilin assons

RONG LUCAS

8:50r23

SECREC

50953 DocId: 32298909 Page 1

---

## Page 5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT2 8 1964

TELEMYRE

URGENT

10 - 28-62

TO DIRECTOR / 105- 72630/

1- 37

PM

EST

RGT

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan-

1. Got

HA HAS NO OBJECTION TI

DECLASSIFICATIOR AND/OR

RELEASE

CIRO FORMATION

IN THIS

K

Tha ch 15-92

Miss

(ORK)

FROM SAC, MIAMI

1105-1598/

1 PAGE

PEDRO LUIS DIAT LANE, IS BASH CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU TEN TWENTYSEVEN SIXTYTWO•

ELP:

LAST NIGHT MM SIX THREE FIVE DASH S REPORTED THAT INSTANT

PLANS DELAYED DUE TO FAILURE OF FERNANDE

SABEZAS TO DELIVER MONEY

FOR REPAIR OF ELECTRICAL POWER PLANT ON "QUSAN.

SUBJECT-S

BROTHER, MARCOS, ADVISED INFORMANT THAT GROUP STILL INTENT

PUT PLAN INTO EFFECT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

MIAMI ADVISED U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL OF ABOVE.

INFORMANT INSTRUCTED TO KEEP THIS

REC- 32

ALL PERTIENT DEVELOPMENTS.

- 7265

MIAMI WILL KEEP BURDEX LOgORMES.

NOV 1.4 1932

END AND ACK PLS

Wais

WA 2-111

TU DISC

1-40 PM OK FBI WA JDS

Newpher

6050V

21 1958

underte

Fire "

casin

Litto slots

INSI

10/31/82

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

MICROIN IS UNCLISSIIED

DATE _1K1 BY CA

NH 50953 DocId: 32298909 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Mr. Tolson.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 2 8 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahen

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Vir. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Stallios

URGENT

10 - 28-62

1-37

PM

EST

RGT

Mr. Davel

Mr. 'Trotter.

TO DIRECTOR / 105- 72630/

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

FROM SAC, MIAMI

/ 10 5-1598/

1 PAGE

Miss Gandy

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, IS BASH CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTER

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU TEN TWENTYSEVEN SIXTYTWO:

LAST NIGHT MM SIX THREE FIVE DASH S REPORTED THAT INSTANT

PLANS DELAYED DUE TO TAILURE OF FERNAND CABEZAS TO DELIVER MONEY

FOR REPAIR OF ELECTRICAL POWER PLANT ON QUSA. SUBJECT-S

BROTHER, MARCAS, ADVISED INFORMANT THAT GROUP STILL INTENT

PUT PLAN INTO EFFECT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE+

MIAMTADVISED U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL OF ABOVE:

INFORMANT INSTRUCTED. TO KEEP THIS OFFICE ADVISED OF

ALL PERTIENT DEVELOPMENTS.

MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU INFORMED,.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 27/11

TU DISC

1-40 PM OK FBI WA JDS

lT, 0/29/62

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIN IS URC...

DATE 8194 BYSSMACIVE

Y5FK)

derlinel,

included

HH 50953 DooId: 32290909 Page 6

---

## Page 7

- Liaison

• Masca

REC- 32

Rock

CLASSIFIED

DECLASSIY

DALK

JFK

ORMATION CONIAINED

TASSIFIED

19-98

ALE INFORMATION COND

Ber

(TFR

203 co2/g

408400

6 493

0/CSR

Nasan

S48-58

(TF1)

BY

4 8

COMMANFI

CARLE

" CLASSIFIES

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

enos Fredro sons

Puts tole mbast

cock do penite

information as cincluded in letter

телетал,

10/29/629

copy for

the Attorneyy

AAG- leagley conger ing Gibaniorisis.

70933

D001d: 32296909

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Liaison

• Masca

SECRET

REC-

32

ON

-82

01305

LASSIFIC

DECLASSI

(JFK)

NATION CONTAINED

NOLASSIFIED

SCHORN

ExCEp+

Brachers

BN pg: 22-19-98

ALL INFOR

1910480 deS

bes

caler of th

3-19-98

S4G8 SIDESR

DECLASSIFY ON: 26/

• sermacive

DONE SEEIE

872623

VO TE :

This

information

in letter

to

the sucorue u

teneral, 10/29/62, copy for AAG-leagley congerning Cuban crisis.

NN 70953

Doold: 32298909 Page 8

---

