# 124-90137-10355

## Page 1

124-90137-10355

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90137-10355

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

CIA

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 08/28/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

(Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

V9.1

NIH 50953 DocId: 32337589

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Liaison Section

Mr. Donanoe

Mr.

Little

Mi. Meier

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

*Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

*. Malone

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel

T'rotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

REC 9 505-24642-4I(3)

54113

BY

Date:

From:

Subject:

- COPIES MACE, DATE.

RE

FOR REVIEW AT FOING AN0/OR DELIVERY

August 28, 1961

TO HSCA RE REQUEST GATED

Director

(SEE BURLE 62-117290Y u

Central

intelligence Agency

58685/0/GCL

(FR)

Actention: Deputy Direstor,

Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

EDUARDO ESPINOSA Y PRIETO

INTERRAL, SECURITY • A = MEXICO

1-11-94

Classies My 9302 200/e

Declassify eno

CADR

o1520

s)

ALI. TNFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCCACSIRIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE®

Reference is made to sour

Lester

1N04 YOUT TENCTENCe CSCI-3/760,810

dated August 21,

Sarior a this wrens"

rile on subject fails to

reves, thatche wrote bank drafts to

active

with the possible exception of Alicia Merine

communist workers

rosal, to ster

communist worker was made in february,

the only assegation shat she was an active

1941 y

by a person

whose

reliability vas

to the United

Enbassy la

Mexico City,

investigation failed to subssantiate

allegation and you

were so

advised by letter under above

coption

tated septenber

1959.

rurchemore, at the time

subject's bank draft to her was

written

& Coruary 10,

1958)

subject

and flerino

neates were both connected witn

the Mexican

Mission

the Unitea Nations.

18 bact uhica

Lenus to reGuce

intelligence significance of

chis paynent.

based on infornation in the flles of this Raroon

appears indianhle

that sunject vrose

CORNnASt FOrKerS

USCE

suggest

4C503

rinancing Commist Party

activities

(710

SEE NOTE

PA

2

BY COURIER SVC.

46 AUG 2 9

COMM • EBI,

CIA HAS ME 565

ECTUON TO

# AND/OK,

5

MAIL ROOM

BRACKETS

5668 SUD/ISK

CLASSIEB BY 5668-40/-499 FK)

DECLASSIFY CN: 25X

SECKET

(JFK

NW 50953

DocId: 32337589

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Director

central Intelligence Agency

(U)

XIE:

This letter is classified

contains information so classified by

Tara analee in nocee

of information concerning

and has

requested permission to

include

the rolLowing in this sunna

files: fa

I stating it comes iron

Sur

"During his New York City tenure, he was known to

write bank drafts to persons

known to be active Communist

workers.

It was suggested that he was

used as a means of

financing Commist farty activities. "o

ciA stated above conclusion "was

apparently

based on

numerous Burean reports written during 1957 and 1950. CIA

revers specifically to only one bank arart, it naving been

written by subject o Alicia Merino ruentes and states that our

report dated 10/12/S6 contained inforation that she as

This report was in the case on Merino Fuentes 5)

and the only allegation

that she was

an active connunist was the

I941 allegation made to the Embassy in Mexico.

Burau has

developed no information indicating payees of

other bank drafts

written by subject had subversive associations or sympathies.

SECRET

NN 50953

DooId: 32337589

Page

---

