# 124-90158-10053

## Page 1

124-90158-10053

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90158-10053

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-7113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/01/1976

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32340396

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CENTRA

celligence information Cle

ROUTINE

IN

• 085155

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

STATE/INR ICS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS

NSA

TREAS NSC/S_ SDO NIO CRS

(SY/I/PIB)

SS, ID

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Classifiod hy

dod Roporting Officer..

Category SB (1)(12 Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF REPORT.

GIATHISSIS YAN INFORMATION REPCRT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

OEGLAOGIMOATION ANDION,

SECRET

MELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

CITE TDFIR DB- 315/10912-76

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEpT FOR thE bRACkETS

DIST 1 NOVEMBER 1976

KP 2-9-98

REPORT CLASS SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE

TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-- DISSEMINATION AND

EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

iditreal mattein

COUNTRY CUBA/VENEZUELA

ALL FBI APA CATAMEO

SE 8-12-94B1 SP8 MAC/KSA

DOI

28 OCTOBER 1976

(JFK

SUBJECT

COMMENTS OF CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN VENEZUELA ON

w. deter

Wife

PERSONS DETAINED BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION

WITH THE CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH

ST-132

REC-7

ACQ

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (30 OCTOBER

1276)

DE 181/00 CYC5340-4183

SOURCE A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE CONTACTS IN BUSINESS,

==

GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES. HIS

RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

1. ON 28 OCTOBER 1976 OFFICIALS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN

NOV 8 107:

+= 12=-121

CARACAS, VENEZUELA, SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA (GOC) IS

WAITING TO SEE WHAT THE VENEZUELANS ARE GOING TO DO WITH THE INDI -

5

VIDUALS UNDER DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER CRASH OF A

5

CUBANA AIRLINER. THE CUBAN EMBASSY HAS AS YET RECEIVED NO

3

3

27 INSTRUCT JONS FROM HAVANA, AND THE CUBAN OFFICIALS PREDICTED THAT THE

SECRET IT

109-12-210-

WN 5097Ax/P9gId:32340396 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1-73

041d Editiona

8O88N088 880106 141Y

90158-10053

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN 085155

TDFIR DB - 315/10912-76

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

• SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(010088 1005On)

GOC WOULD NOT MAKE A FIRM DECISION UNTIL 2 NOVEMBER, SINCE THE

COURT'S FINDINGS ARE DUE FOR PRESENTATION ON 1 NOVEMBER. (FIELD

COMMENT: ON 29 OCTOBER THE LOCAL PRESS INDICATED THAT THE COURT'S

DECISION WOULD BE MADE DURING THE WEEK OF 1 NOVEMBER.)

2.

THE CUBAN OFFICIALS, HOWEVER, SAID THAT THEY BELIEVE THAT

ORLANDOSE O SCH, LUISAPOS A DA, HERNANAR IC A R DO, AND

FREDDY U GO, THE FOUR DETAINEES, WOULD BE RELEASED BY THE

VENEZUELANS. DAVID/NO RA LE SIBELLO, A LEADER OF THE DEMO.

CRATIC ACTION PARTY (AD), THE CUBANS SAÏD, WANTS THE FOUR MEN RE-

LEASED. ONE OF MORALES' LAW ASSOCIATES IS A GOOD FRIEND OF JUDGE

DELTA EST

A BA, WHO IS HEARING THE CASE, AND MORALES' REQUEST

FOR THE RELEASE OF THE FOUR IS BEING MADE VIA THIS LAW ASSOCIATE.

(SOURCE COMMENT: THE CUBANS DID NOT ELABORATE ON THE REASON

MORALES WANTED THE MEN RELEASED, NOR DID THEY IDENTIFY THE LAW

ASSOCIATE.)

3. BOSCH, THE CUBANS SAID, WOULD PROBABLY BE TURNED OVER TO

UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BOSCH BE FLOWN OUT OF VENEZUELA

VIA PANAMA, THE CUBANS SAID, THE GOC WOULD TAKE BOSCH OFF THE PLANE

IN PANAMA REGARDLESS OF WHICH AIRLINE IS USED TO TRANSPORT HIM.

IN ANY EVENT, THE CUBAN OFFICIALS INSISTED THAI, IF THE FOUR MEN

WRI

REPELEASED, THEY WOULD BE KILLED. THE CUBANS SAID THAT THE

Hom)

(dissem controls)

HH 50953 DocIT:920

40396. Page 3

---

## Page 4

WARNING NOTICE

E INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHI

SENSI

INVOLVED

IN 085155

TDFIR DB-315/10912-76

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(08088440981092)

(CABET OOMETOLS)

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, AND THE

CUBAN EXILES ALL HAVE REASON TO WISH THE FOUR DEAD AS A MEANS OF

KEEPING THEM QUIET. THE CUBAN OFFICIALS SAID THAT THE CUBAN

GOVERNMENT INTENDED TO KILL THEM, UNLESS ANOTHER GROUP DID IT

FIRST. THE CUBANS SAID THAT NO MATTER WHICH GROUP ACTUALLY

CARRIED OUT THE ASSASSINATIONS, EVERYONE WOULD BELIEVE THE CUBANS

WERE RESPONSIBLE. THE FOUR MEN, THE CUBANS SAID, MUST PAY FOR

THEIR ACTIONS BECAUSE, SHOULD THEY GO FREE, OTHER INDIVIDUALS OR

GROUPS WOULD BE ENCOURAGED TO ATTACK CUBANS ANYWHERE. (FIELD

COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBA'S INTENTIONS TOWARDS THOSE

IMPLICATED IN THE CUBANA CRASH SEEEIVCJ7522, TDFIRDB-315/10534-76,

OF 21 OCTOBER, FROM THE SAME SOURCE.)

4. WHILE THE OFFICIAL CUBAN COMMUNITY IN CARACAS HAS ALWAYS

BEEN CAUTIOUS, SINCE THE CUBANA ATTACK THEIR PRECAUTIONS HAVE BEEN

INCREASED. THE CUBAN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THE AMBASSADOR, CURRENTLY

CARRY TWO PISTOLS AT ALL TIMES. A LARGE CALIBER PISTOL IS CARRIED

IN MEN'S PURSES, WHICH ARE FASHIONABLE IN CARACAS. A SMALLER

CALIBER PISTOL IS CARRIED IN THEIR BELTS.

5. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS: SENT TO PANAMA

5

CITY, CINCSO (J-2 ONLY)

REPORT CLASS-SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

2

1

• SECRET

(dissem controls)

ww.509/1otettorsz34u5gtsem contol)

5

---

## Page 5

1-78

Editions

(on1011 51000 101)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

90158-10053

IN 085155

TDFIR DB-315/10912-76

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(classifloation)

(dissem controls)

AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS - - NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS. DISSEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR. CLASSIFIED

BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS- 2.

4

3

2

1

i • SECRET®

Ww 509/aHat: 3254(dcm control)

5

---

