AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10239-10171
RECORD SERIES: MX .
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:  105-3702-464

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
TRENT, ROLAND E,
LEG, MX

03/13/1964

4
LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, BKG, LIAISON WITH MX AUTHORITIES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret CEASSIFICATION:
12/17/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

HW 50953 DocId:32183961 Paye 1


RE ares doieamaanr .
Memorandum

TO + Legat, Mexico (105-3702)

SECRET

FROM - & SA Roland E, Trent

. SUBJECT? LEE HARVEY OSWALD
IS-R-Cubd

egation ef PEDRO GUTIERREZ. VALENC

: 6h. MARGARITA MUNGUIA, Vasa Section, Us8., Embassy
 ORECOy made available.visa-file data concerning ERNESTO... _ we
MIGRANT’ LEVY, holder of-Cuban passport No. 26367, issued in December, «

1959, with’ éxpiration date in 196k. Hea

Addresses for’ this individual -were’given as Mi

#259, Apartment #301, KEKE Colonia Rotiay. Mexicos
Calle Arellano Esqfiina "C", #269, Havana, Juba.

_MITRANI's date of birth is shotm as December 2,
Havana, Cuba, and he. is ‘further described as ‘fgir..com'
51 73 176 1lbs4$ Cuban national, no scars of itarks, “b:
and'greén eyes, The visa file data” also ‘shows MITRANI. to

of Turkish. extractions Rew .

ah

HTTRANI secured a one éntry Be2 visa on }-27-61 valid-through’
Yu27e6L, for ‘i purpose of a pleasure ‘trip*to' Los Angeles,

California,

The visa file card contains a photograph of ERNESTO MOTRANE
and this card indicated his employment as of \January, 1961, as
a merchant and manufacturer of plastics. ca .

The application made by HITRANI as the U.S» Embassy, -Nexico,
in January, ie was for a non-inmigrant visa to visit the U.S,
REP Beclaéstty

CLASS. & EXT.8
REASON-FCIM Ii,

Yvoursp terrae
tea? ‘XS UNCLASSIFIED, -

2 -EXCEPT WHERE SHOWY
Wo. TRA MAS CT RAILS a

. TION ANS/OR, meer

ASE OF CIA INPCRMATION

DOCUMENT A$ 54x71 220 Tex) Toa fis
Wiz Fe, _

AS
rag



lea C

The foltowing information is classificd"SECRET" snd not SECK EL
to be fugkher disseminated yj{thout specific authority of a
the CIA,fJ Mexico City Station Ke. - .

As of 7~6—61 oné Ey, MITRANI was working in the Cuban
Consulate, Mexico, DP. send had reportedly. offered to cooperate
with anti-Castro persons “in Mexico, D,F ()

The E, MITRANT, mentioned above was subsequently identified
as ERNESTO MITRANT ($ rs} a 4

ERNESTO _MITRANI aka E, Mitreni, mentioned above, was subsequently
» identified as ERNESTO MITRANT LEVY, who in about December, 1959
“Mas employed an "Auxiliary Consular Clerk" in the Cuban Embassy,
Mexico, Daf. {ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY had reportedly been. helpful

: , bo anti-CASTRO forces in vexicod i) Jose An yreute (Ffoatuon@0 ;

. , On October 2, °1960, MITRANI recefved a telegram recalling
him to Havana, Cubaj however, he did nbb want to return to Cubay
and reportedly. went to the then Ambassador PORTUYONBO, and
explained that he planned on masrying a Mexican girl; that i
his father had offered him employment in Mexico, and for these
reasons he did. not want to return to Cuba, PORTUYONDO reporteély
counseled EWEXHH MITRANI to write to the Cuban Foreign. Cffice in
avana and explain his problem, which ks TRANI reportedly did. ©
At that time MITRANI was the holder of Cuban Diplomatic passport ,
Noe 80 end also held a regular passportef™. ° BA) ‘

MITRANT, reportedly had arrived in Mexico on December 15, 1959;
he was a bvafchelor at the time of this arrival, and his father- ~
{ was reportedly engaged in business in Mexico, His residence

i
1
in about 1960 was given as vesiding at the corner of Avenida j
nsurgentes Sur and Wiaducto Miguel Aleman, Mexico, D.F. ,
telephone No,g.d]-96-11. The telephone and address data was as

nf 10-21-60 ‘)

- . MITRANI ‘was reportedly in contact with the USIA, U.S. Embassy, :
Mexico, DeFs, in 1960 in retard to his desive to remain in Mexico, :
(Gnd NITRANT was reportedly told that a visa toenter the U.S. would

be arranged for him if he would publically denounce the Cuban reais

MITRANT veportedly never publically denounced the Cuban regime {
although CIA file data reflects that someone wrote to the Cuban :
Embassy in 1960 “Ponecs OS MITRANT was a "spy" and cooperating

with anbi-CAsiRo forces (3 »

oF
. The ota, FRexico,Git catia hee no data on file concerning
MITRANI since S#13-62, & * :
- bove CIA data secured from DAVID PHILLIPS. 7
bove CTA da Se SECREL

Sees 2

| HW 50953 DocId:32183961 Paye 3


Secret
pw i ye File review concerning ERNESTO MITRANI revealed the following: fe
a File 10551713, Sern, 18, Pa. 3, and Ser, 198
(Butile™105~8908.) fentitled COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF CUBAN &

DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS ,]FCREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS = CUBA"
contains Letterhead memorandum dated 10~2),—60 ,fgihich

indicates that ERNESTO MITRANI LEVI was then afr“Assistant a“
Consul, Cuban Embassy, Mexziqo, D.F assed "SECRET" {fF

¢ CIA, Mexico City Stationg’S)

: q MC File 109=70, Ser. 850, (BUfile 109=12-210}
enttiled "FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA", Report of SA JOSEPH
T. GENCO, anaes at Mexico contains information from
PSL FELIX vaLoEs twc File incon hat (PNU) MITRANT, an
assistant in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.¥., was contemplating
defecting and, leaving his position, As of 1l- él, according to the
/ 18 PST, MITRANT was reportedly still working at the Cuban Consulate

: "

: yO pacreke,

RW 50953 DocId:32183961 Paye 4
