# 124-10004-10025

## Page 1

1124-10004-10025

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10004-10025

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 100-10461-9212. 9213. 9214. 9215

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG. MX

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 09/30/1969

PAGES: 11

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5617

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/03/2000

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC 4 MEMOS

HH 50953

DooId: 32114651

Page 1

---

## Page 2

HH

50953

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

-IN AND/OR

DECLASSIE

IN THAS DOCUMENT. 47/0197)

RELEASE L

Director, YET (105-82555) CONTIDNTNL

Legat, Mexico City (105-3702) (RUC)

Sept. 30, 1969

NET PORNOG CONTATNUD

Haney Is uper vegancis ancier

WHERE SHONE OCHINESE.

LEX HARVEY OSWALD

IS - RUSSIA -

CUBA

C 4.2713

toted by 9803-Rdllnd

Declasshy on: GAUR JFK

ReBulet 9/12/69 to Assistant Attorney General, Internal

Security Division, coples of which vere forvarded to is once:

inclosed hereuith are two Xerox reproductions of the

Mexico City file coples of ir.

CHARLES: THOMAS menorandim, date.

12/10/65, and the memoranda from this office to the Ambassador

dated: 12/27/65 and 2/23/00.

Background

ELENA GARBO DE RAR, Or MISS GARRO 8S ME. THOMAS calls

her.

is a well known figuro in Mexican political Socia and

FRESHAN, the then Deputy Chief of Mission CLARENCE A. BOONSTRA,

and many others. All of those offlelals expressed to me on

various occasions the opinion that Miss CARRO 18 a very interesting

person and a scintillating conversationalist, butthat she has a

vivid imagination and frequently appears to be unable to distinguish

between truth and fiction.

Although Interesting, they all considere

her as highly unreliable as a source of information except for

MT THOMAS who apparently placed consistent credence in what Miss

GARRO sa1d:

Whoa Mias GARRO visited this office, In November 19640 She

claimed that she had Been LEB HARVEY OSWALD at a party Blven at

the home of RUBEN DURAN on September 30, October 1, or October

1963, as reported in Mexico City letterhead resorendum of 12/11/64

As previously reported, Miss GARRO claimed that her daughter,

LAVAGNINI STENIUS.

Identification of this Individual, who had

4 Bureau (Bacs.- 6)

(1 - Liaison Section)

] - Mexico City

NIr / ako

(5)

040

Classified by

Exempt from GD

Category

EASECRET

Date of Declasp Ncation INDEPINTTE CONFIENTIAL

100 - 1046/

99/1

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED.

DEFILED

OCT 1 6 1969

FBI = DALLAS:

Melis

DooId:32114651

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

CONNE

MEX 105-3702

who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a

responsibility for seeing it through to

its final evaluation.!!

It appears,

therefore, that Mr. THOMAS has now decided that be

and not the FBI or the Department of Justice is the one to

decide how the story given by Miss GARRO is to be evaluated.

The concept that every person who passes on to another govern-

ment agency information relating to matters within the jurisdiction

of that agency has the responsibility and authority to review

and evaluate the action taken by that agency is, of course,

untenable. Pa

Further question concerning Mr. THOMAS' judgment is

raised by item 3 of paragraph 10 of his memorandum furnished to

the Secretary of State.

Any reference to the ["close and delicate"(s)

relationship between the head of CIA Mexico and top Mexican

officials, if true, is a very highly classified matter and any

"leak" or

revelation

an arrangement would, in view of the delicate Mexican political

situation, be disastrous to the Mexican Government as well as

to Mexican-American relations. The delicacy of the situation

has recently been greatly augmented by the published Cuban

allegation that one of the officers of the Mexican Embassy in

Havana was acting as

a CIA spy with the knowledge of the Mexican

Government.

Mr. THOMAS, however, included such a highly (S

classified reference in a memorandum which he classified only

as "confidential"

contrary to regulations relative to classification

of documents.

While this reference relates to the activities and

operations of another Government agency and therefore is not of

primary concern to the Bureau, it is nevertheless called to the

Bureau's attention -0g consideraton in evaluating Nir. THOMAS"

An additional copy of this letter is being forwarded

for use in the event the Bureau desires to forward a

Dallas which recelved a copy of referenced letter: (gU)

copy

SECREI

CONTINLTTAL

HH 50953 DocId:32114651 Page 3

---

