# 124-10294-10304

## Page 1

124-10294-10304

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10294-10304

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-80115-15, 16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/29/1974

'PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

MDL, AKA, BKG, PDL, MIL, REL, EMP, POLIT ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, LHM, A/T

v9.1

NH 50953

12

DocId: 32308446

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO FOREIGN DISSEMI

SECRET

1 - Mr. V. H. Nasca

л)

3-2

01. 5668

REC-73

(61-3) 105-80115 - 10

JFK)

Date:

To:

BY COURIER

inde

REASS:

DECLAC

November 25, 1974

Director

11186194.

eron:

Subject:

Attention:

Deputy Director for Opexationsel4)

Clarence M. Kelley, Director

10

MARCOS DIAL LANE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Doclassity

ISPBRINCIEN

JFK

Reference is made to your communication dated

October 29,

1974, your reference 614941 in the captioned

matter and

to our interin reply dated November 5,

1974.

You requested information on the current activities of

the

subject

and & briel asassament of him with an

indication of what could be passed

to an

Attached

for your inforation are two copies of

3 memorandun dated November 18, 1974, at Miami, Florida,

which containe the information

you requested.

It is

noted that the last two paragraphs of this memorandun

contains an assessment of him which was provided by our

Miant Oiiice.

I = Miami

(105-1962)

VHN: emj

(5)

iSke

CC.2

NOV 261974

FBI

AIL, INTORMATION CONTAINED

ÉEREIN LE UNCIASSIFTED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERNISE

CIA HAS HA

TOR TO

SECRET - NO FOREIGN

DI SSEH INAT TON

RELENO: AS ARCORMATION

Iant

BRACKEZSIL

SSMEn 6 199-30-978

SECRET PACE THO

ARL ROOM [

TELETYPE UNIT |

NN 70953

D001d: 32306446

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO FOREIGN DISSEMIN

SECRET

Director

Central

Intelligence Agency

K (1)

We have no objection to your making the

Information in the attached memorandum available

to

provided this Bureau

Lot revealed as the source ot the datorasion and the

assessment

get

forth in the Inst two paragraphs of the

memorandun

Enclosures = 2

NOTE :

Classified "Secret No Foreign Dissemination"

because it contains information so classified by CIA lL)

CIA advised that/an

requested data on

the subject,

a Cuban exile residing

in Miami. Subject wrote letter to the President of the

Chilean Junta requesting data from the Chilean Government

which he could use in talks before U. S. businessmen. CIA

requested information on the current activities of the

subject and a brief assessment of him with an indication

of what could be passed to the

SIt is

toted we have previously furnished information to CIA

concerning the subject

The 11/18/74

memorandum notes that subject is

the younger brother of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz,

the latter

having been head of the Cuban Air Force under Castro in

early 1959.

Subject was Inspector General of the Cuban

Air Force during the same period. Both defected from the

NOTE CONTINUED, PAGE THREE

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32300446 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

SECRET

NOV 1 8 1974

Date:

Transmit the following in

CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via -

AIRIEL

(Priority)

Razzasi

IN THIS DOGMENT

SFUNMATION

(4B 9-30-977

TO:

FROM :

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-80115) -116

SAC, MIAMI (105-1962) (C)

0

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

IS - CUBA

00:

MM

DISEMBLEA

Declassify go GER

Re Bulet to CIA 11/5/74

M

Enclosed for the Bureau are

five copies of LHM

dated and captioned

as above.

MM T-1 is former MM 635-S, who requested that his

identity be concealed.

is noted that CIA desires an assessment of MARCOS

DIAZ LANZ with

indication of what may be passea to the

ale) The assessment is made at the end of the

enclosed LHM.

information in the LHM may be passed to 3-21-98

CLASSIED BY: 56208 520/158

DECLASSIFY ON: X

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MERED N IS UNCLASSIFLED EXCEPT A

HERE GRO: OTTERWISE.

1058011544)

2-Miami

(1-1051962)

(1-134211- Sub A)

JSD/kr

(4)

#: 11868684

RE:G-73,

(RM)

EX 10

flats enl

REQ. REC'D

AUG 23 1976

1161416

21

NOV So4 1974

10/12/17

In see enchan

enclosure 1, 2

HSCA ne reg

Lee Bufile: 62-117290

Approved:

457

special Agent

m Charge

1N 30953 Doc1d:32308446 Page 4

_M Per.

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1969 0 - 346-090 (11)

---

## Page 5

ALL EBPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHORE SHOUN OTHERWISE.

1 - Mr. V. H. Nasca

SEGRET

(CI-3) 105-80115-15

REC-67

114-94

Classified By SPOMACH BY COURIER

Declassify on: DADR JFK

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

November 5, 1974

Director

pontras" Intelligence Agency 1f(u)

Attention: Deputy Director for Operations SU)

Clarence M. Kelley, Director

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

3-21-98

CODE 5668 SO/USE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

lated October 29, 1974

no 29, 107, your reverence 610091(8 (u)

An inguiry is being made and the pertinent

informetion will be made available to you upon

receipt.

(JFK)

2 - Miami

(205-2052 70 gue 10% 591 reced 2 u

communication dated 10/29/74)

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dop. AD Inv...

Asst.

Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.-

Ext. Affairs.

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Loboratory

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

NN 70953

TNod

MAILED 8

204

07 1974

ONly

FBI

VHN: emj

(6)

D001d: 32306446

Page 5

VaZi

1914

SEE NOTE SAC, MIAMI, PARA TAG NO DECORATO

DECLAT

..i.

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWON THIS DOCUMENT

ALL SEE I CINATION BA

Excop FoR the brAckErs

6mB/9-30-97

SEGRENS?!

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Director

HOLY FOR SAC, MIAMI:

Attached is copy of

referenced CIA

communication dated 10/29/745

Comply and submit results in form suitable for

dissemination by airtel. Any information included

herein originating with other Government agencies

must be cleared with those agencies for dissemination

to the Service mentioned prior to its incorporation

in the material prepared for dissemination.

this is done,

an appropriate notation must appear in

the cover communication transmitting

• the material

prepared for dissemination.

NOTE:

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

Classified "Secret - No Foreign Dissemination"

sacause it contala itormation do classuried bycle 4)

G)Cl has advised that an

requested cata on subject.

a Cuban exile living

in Miami.

Subject wrote letter to the President of the

Chilean Junta requesting date from the Chilean Govern-

ment he could use in

talks before U.S. businessmen.

Chileans would like information on subject.

We have

previously furnished information on subject to CIA. CIA

has réquested information on the current activities of

the subject and a brief assessment of hin' with an in-

dication fof what could be passed to the

(s)

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

NOTE CONTINUED - PAGE THREE

CRET

50953 DooId: 32300446 Page 6

---

## Page 7

JEH029 203PM

EIA238

RRRUFBI

10/29/74 MSY

I

DE RUEAIIA: #9042 3021843

ZNY SSSSS

R 291745Z OCT 74

EM CIA

TO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

ОСТ 2 9 1974

TEL

УрЕ

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RELEASE D DIA MFORMATICNL

BRACKETS

6739-349417006

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.•A.D,-Adm

Asst. Dir.!

Admit:

Cottip.

Syst.

Ett. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspectio

Intell

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval

Spec, Inv. w

Craining

Legal Coun

Telephone Rib

Directur Sedy

SE CRE I. CITE CIA 614941•

ATIN: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION•

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

§ SUBJECI:

MARCOS DIAZ. LANZ

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0-8-94 BY SIGMACIEH

C

1.

HAS REQUESTED INFORMATION

ON MARCOS DIAZ LANZ, A CUBAN EXILE LIVING IN MIAMI, FLORIDA•

DIAZ WROTE A LETTER TO GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET, PRESIDENT OF

¿INE CHILEAN JUNTA, IN GUARDED LANGUAGE REQUESTING; DATA ON THE

GOVERNMENT OF CHILE WHICH HE COULD USE IN

SERIES OF TALKS

REC-67 /05 - 80115-

BEFORE POWERFUL U.S. BUSINESSMEN. THE LETTER

IMPLIES THAT DIAZS

S§IMPORTANT BUT PROVIDES NO DATA. GENERAL PINOCHET WOULD LIKE

INFORMATION ON DIAZ.

HE NOV 8 1974

105-80115

Im

19 50953 DocId: 32308446 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 9042 S

RE T

• 20 THE FILES OF THIS AGENCY REFLECT THAT MARCOS DIAZ LANZ,

BORN MAY 20, 1928, HAVANA, CUBA, ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER

A-1188113D, WAS EMPLOYED IN APRIL 1974 AT S.D. BRULL AND ASSOCIATES,

2299 SoW. 27TH AVENUE, MIAMI, FLORIDA. A SOURCE

WHOSE INFORMATION HAS PROVEN: ACCURATE REPORTED THAT IN NOVEMBER 1964

DIAZ WAS OPERATING AS AN ARMS DEALER UNDER THE ALIAS "PEDRO GARCIA"

AND WAS A MEMBER OF AN ULTRA-RIGHTIST GROUP CALLED "MINUTEMEN"

IN YALAHA, FLORIDA. (THIS REPORT WAS PASSED. TO YOUR REPRESENTATIVE

IN MIAMI ON 4 NOVEMBER 1964•>

30 INFORMATION FROM YOUR FILES IS. REQUESTED ON THE CURRENT

ACTIVITIES AND A BRIEF ASSESSMENT. OF MARCOS DIAZ LANZ WITH AN

LINDICATION OF WHAT MAY BE PASSED TO THE

4* CLASSIFIED BY RECORDING REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT

FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0• 11652 EXEMPTION

CATEGORY 5B (2) • IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFICATION.

#9042

vV

NH 50953 DocId: 32308446 Page 8

---

