# 124-90140-10111

## Page 1

124-90140-10111

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/16/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90140-10111

HQ

CR 97-4368-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

CUBAN RELIEF SOCIETY INC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953

DocId: 32338154

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

777:

STORET

Director

Tolson

Mohr ..

Parsons

Belmont

Callahang

Del oac

Malonev

Mc Guire

Rosen

Trotter

Ingram

Gandy

doing was with the sonction of this Government inasmuch as

neither wants to be prosecuted for any uiolations of

United States laws.

In this regard, they were aduised by out

Miami Office that this Bureau could not sanction any violations

of federal laws on their part. (sy

(S)

on August 15, 1960, Mr. Bay O lara,

representative

your Agency in Miomi, advised our Miani Office that Bob

Holmes of Central Intelligence Agency Headquarters had established

direct contact with lit. Vasquer prior to the boat trip from

Juiami to Cuba on about August 1l, 1960 (which is described in

detail in the enclosed memorandund O Mara said that he haos

furnished y250, whioh was given to vasquez to help finance this

trip, but stated that he had never met the Vasquezes and

did not consider this trip to be part of local CIA operations.

5)

O'wara said that he had been willing to provide $250 from

CIA funds to assist the operation in question in order to

determine its results, but he disclaimed any responsibility

for the trip.

on August 17, 22 and 26, 2960, Mr. To Mara l

contacted by our miami office and furnished a summary of the

information set forth in the enclosed memorandum. 0 Mara 5)

said that CIA contact with Daniel Vasquez was handled entirely

from washington, D. Co, and he indicated he would contact his

headquarters in order

that appropriate steps mighc be taken to

resolve the concern expressed by the vasquezes regarding their

activities. On August 25, 1960, O'Maralingormed our Miami5

Office that he had made arrangements through his headquarters

for Miguel Pons (who is described in the enclosed memorandum)

to visit miami the following week end so that the variqus

pro ems relating to the Vasquezes could be resolved. O'lara(s

further indicated that he intended to utilize the serutces of

Daniel Vasquer and was giving consideration to use of the island

near Islamorado (described in the

enclosed memorandum, which he

identified as Lignumvita Island. (n

on August 30, 1960, Mrs.

Vasquez stated she was

becoming more and more desperate about the situation and asked

to be put in touch with a CIA representative.

Mrs. Vasquez?

raquast was brought to omara stattention. on August 31, 1950135

-2 =

SECRET

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NH 50953 DocId:32338154 Page 2

---

