# 124-10213-10470

## Page 1

124-10213-10470

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10213-10470

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-99668-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DONAHUE, PAUL G.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/30/1962

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

LÇA, ASSOC, ACA, PDT, JULY 26TH MOVEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NN 70953

DooId: 32294694

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TP 105-600

SFCRET

IDENTITY

LOCATION OF INFORMATION

TP T-1 is Mr.

STEVEN MINAS,

U.S: Customs Inspector,

MN 97-139-Sub II

Miami, Florida

TP. T-2 1s MN 639-S

• TP. 105-600-17

TP T-3 18 Mrs.

ROBBIE M

DICKS, Clerk, Local Board 31

TP. 105-600-14

TP T-4 1s R. O.

TOMLINSON,

TP 105-600-18

Postmaster, Melbourne, Arkansas

results mentioned in

Tampa sources and informants contacted with negative

report were:

DATE OF CONTACT

PERSON CONTACTED

CONTACTING AGENT

1/26/62

TP 27-S

SA HOWARD K. RUTHERFORD

1/26/62

TP 64-S

SA HOWARD K. RUTHERFORD

1/ 30/62

TP 45-S

SA HOWARD K. RUTHERFORD

1/30/62

TP. 47-S

SA WILLIAN C. HAY

2/1/62

PSI PEDRO PUIG

SA EUGENE C. PETERSON

2/1/62

PSI JOSE ENRIQUE RAMIREZ-SA EUGENE C. PETERSON

2/1/62

TP. 52-S

SA EUGENE C. PETERSON

3/1/62

TP 57-S

SSA JOHN. W. ROUSE

3/1/62

3

PSI JOSE RAMON RODRIGUEL-SA JOHN W. ROUSE

3/8/62

PSI ANTONIO DE DIEGO

SA JOHN W. ROUSE

COVER

PAGE

775'

SECRED

band

NH 50953

DocId: 32294694

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 105-600

SECRET

On 2/28/62, Heferenced Miami letter advised that

on 2/20/62 Miss SUE SHINE CIA, Miami,

advised that no

Americans partid! ated in the training camps located in

He theon or a cabin latole for

the April, 1961 Invasion of Cuba.

Miss (SHINE] avised that the recards of her

office reflected that captioned individual has never

participated in any training camps sponsored by that

agency and that the records

her office contained no

information concerning him

Information from the files of the General Telephone

Company of Florida, Tampa, Florida, was furnished to SA

EARL M.

PETERSEN on 2/28/62 by Mr. JERRY ATKINS, Commercial

Manager,

and on 3/6/62 by. Mr. GEORGE CARNES, Commercial

Manager

Information copies of this report are being

furnished to New York, Loutsville and Cincinnati in view

of their interest in this investigation. Other offices

receiving coples have investigation currently outstanding

by virtue of leads previously set forth

or as a result of

leads

set forth herein.

LEADS:

ATLANTA DIVISION

AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA

Expedite coverage of lead previously set forth in

referenced Tampa airtel inasmuch as

address of subject now

confirmed by father of subject as being 1376 W. Peachtree

Street, Atlanta:

AT OGLETHORPE UNIVERSITY

Obtain picture of ESPINA and forward copy to

Miami

that it may be shown to MM 639-S, who can definitely

state if subject participated in anti-CASTRO training camps.

COVER. " PAGE

RECREA

NH 50953 DocId: 32294694 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

TP 105-600

DETROIT DIVISION

AT DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Will Interview VIRGIL GLENN WASHBURN as set forth

in referenced Tampa airtel.

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIANT, FLORIDA

Upon receipt of photograph from Atlanta will

exhibit same to MM 639-S in order to determine 1f subject

presentiat any of anti-CASTRO training camps.

No dissemination is being made locallyof this

report inasmuch as subject's location has not been confirmed

by the Atlanta Office and the nature and extent of his

activities has not been determined.

COVER

PAGE

SECRET

HH 50953

DooId: 32294694

Page 1

---

