# 124-90158-10062

## Page 1

124-90 158- 10062)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

6/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-12-228-1924

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TITLE :

DATE: 01/31/1973

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

POLITICAL MATTERS

LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE

H4 50953

DooId: 32340405

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT TORTE PRACIORS

Kp 2-9-98

4-15-98

ACO

SUBJECT

OUNTRY

Intelligence Infor

lation Report

Exemp from Genoral Declamilication Schadvia st 8.0. 11052: ixomotion Caregory 58 (1), (2)

automalic Idecion dration.

DIRECTORATE OF

NO

anan

FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

THIS IS AN,INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

ECRE

alitical 79211001

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/60330-73

Venezuein

DATE DISTR. 31 January 1973

8 December 1972

Reorganization

the Directorate

of the

Service

of Intelligence

Prevention

ale

Venezuela, Caracas (15 December

1972)

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2-22: 95815/3 MACIE

FIELD NO.

Cvge525

his information has been frequently con-

tirmed by independent sources.

1.

Dni & Decem

n 1972 the 23r

orate

Resear

of intelligence and-

vention (DIST

the service

Director

- Remberto

C

redrganized by it's

(source

Comment:

Uzcategul

Ecatedui believes

DISIP will be in line for criticism during the election

of 1973. and he wants to remove iron positions d responsibility

controversial section heads.)

The gist of the

document

issued by Uzcategui reorganizing DISIP follows.

2.

The Director of DISIP sets the general policy based

on

instructions fron the Ministry of the Interior and has

ultimate

i im

in

control of the Services.

The Deputy Director assists

carrying out these responsibilities

and substitutes

for

the

Director during his absence.

As- its supervisory and

fiscal

units, DISIP has an Inspector General of Services who

has

the responsivility of disciplining personnel and investi-

gating

the

employees,

and an internal comptroller wo verifies

administration of the Services.

To solid eventio

assigned

to Dr: OamaldoV

general

Di seryi ces, wnich has been

SECRE TINO FORBIGN DISSEM

5-RTE

STATE

(clossification)

"DIA

FBI

(dis sem controls)

NSA

1973

HAR®

Jest

XEROXED®

ORIGINAL RETAIN

cAs

(Fo: Flall Dialbalion sos final paragrophy

Carica

Plan 8920

2-13>3

104-12-228

SON ROT:

ASCANY. Of 10/02/77

HH 50953 DocId: 32340405

Page 2

---

## Page 3

90158-10062

cop.

PAGE

2 OF 2 PAGES

es → Directorate

16 TY 29973

4.

The

Chiefs

of

the lones

and other branches in the

interior are under the jurisdiction

of

the

Secretary

General

of

Services.

They will handle

administrative matters,

intelligenco and operationg directly

we tin

the corrosponding

Divisions

and will recoive from them the general requirements

to be fulfilled.

The General Operations Division has nationwide.

responsibility for all police and opcrational matters.

will be formed by as many operating divisions as there are

specific activities to be fulfilled. The current operating

divisions are:

à.

Commissioner Adolfo

Division

(Prévention) heade i

o me ro

Gomez.

Second, My Ion pen

Control), headed 2y.

sub-commissioner, Arca

Julio Cesar

Third Division (Patrol, headed by Sub-Connisgiones

"Fourtn Div

headed by Commissionor lui

(Explosives and Arnaments.).,

•$ a

a .

e.

Connissioner

It Division ProteCtion a neededy.

Certai

ô.

The General

Information

Division has nationwide

responsibility for all intelligence and counter-intelligence

natters,

with the exception of subversion unich is wholly the

responsibility of the General Operations Division.

The General

Information Division will be forned by astany divisions as there

are

specific activities to be fulfilled.. Currently these are:

ath, Division, headed by Commissioner

Jose

que

Blanco:

Twelfth

Division (Archives and Analysis), headed

bY Dr. Karae

2 ya

Vasquez

Thirteenth

Division

-USSR and Bloc Embassies) ,

headed by sub-commissioner Alejanaro

7.

The

Secretary General of Services

has responsibility

for all administrative matters,

including personnel

and requests

for services,

equipment and finances.

jie also nas responsibility

for all matters

not falling under the jurisdiction of

the two

general divisions,

and in particular for those related to the

Divisions of Personnel and Administration.:

8.

Field Dissem:

Embassy at Caracas.

SECRE I/NO FOREIGN DISSEL

2

HN 50953 DocId: 32340405 Page 3

---

