# 124-10185-10098[c06716646]

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OSTIONAL DORM NO, 10

3010-108

MAY 1EA2 L0II8H

GSA CHI, PIG. NO. 17

UNITED STATES GO

NMENT

Memorandum

TO

:Mr. C. D. DeLoach

DATE: 3/6/70

FROM : W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT:

RELATIONSHIPS WITH CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

CIA REQUEST FOR BUREAU LECTURE

DECEASSIFIED BY SPIZALMIETE

1-01-01

ON COMMUNISM IN THE U. S.

Item Number 15 in the material submitted to the Director

by SA Sam Papich in his memorandum 3/5/70 discusses the Director's

refusal of a 1958 CIA request for

NAME

to lecture

on communism before & CIA group. Papich stated that CIA accepted

this as an affront and a blatant refusal to cooperate on a most

important subject of interest to both agencies.

The files disclose that by letter 9/25/58 signed by

NAME

to address a selected

group of CIA personnel on the communist movement in the U.s.

CIA suggested dates of 12/9,10,or 11/58. The Director by routing

slip attached to NAME

letter commented, "It seems strange

that CIA should seek this when its top representative in Japan

considers FBI as a bunch of mere 'flat-feet' and the dangers

of communism as something conjured up in the minds of the FBI.

But then

again I note request doesn't comé from the Diréctor

nor even the Deputy Director of CIA."

Memorandum

NAME

tO MAHE

dated 10/1/58

made reference to CIA's request ad the Director's comments. It

recommended that the best interests of the Bureau would be served

by giving this lecture, not because of the information which

could be conveyed to CIA on communism in the U. S., but because

it would give NAME

an opportunity to raise a number of

questions himself of the group concerning CIA's own activities

in the field of communism.

It was pointed out that

it could be

considered a bit of a challenge to see how much thé FBI could

learn about the operation of CIA during the course of the lecture

and discussion rather than

dechan the

the converse. fis

recommended

that the request be declined and the Director concurred commenting,

"We cannot make NAME

available to this outfit."

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subjeet to Criminal Sanctions.

CONTINUED

OVER

---

