'424-90092-10007] | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90092-10007
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — CR 62-80750-945
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: KEAY
TO: FLETCHER
TITLE:
DATE: — 05/02/1949
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
WILLIAM K. HARVEY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 07/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : MEMO

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32330762 Page 1


COPY: ATH

i STATES GOVERNMENT

J OFFICE MEMORANDUM -_ UNS
TO > UR. FLETCHER ; DATE: May 2, 1919
ch FR : V. P. KEAY SECRET

SURJECT: (ercussinene OF CL. REPRESENTATIVE IN| oH @

fy aeniee)
Agent DeLoach has confidentially ascertained that the Central Ff
Intelligence Agency plans to place a representative infOttawa, Canada
within the next several aks. This representative wilT reportedly be
one{Samuel Herman{HortonjPa former Bureau Agent who resigned in December,
19L"to accept a position with the Office of Strategic Services.

Tt has also been ascertained that Willian K4tiarvey, also a former

Bureau Agent and now an employee-of CIA, has recomme: déa that only a former
Bureau Agent should be placed in Gonna that the p r relationship could
be initiated with FBI Liaison Ge TcerfGlenn Hi. Bethel & Harvey has furhter
stated to his associates that,any — Bureau Agent™now wor!
ain the confidence of (Beth ind thereby have an etree with

ate ind ore excéllent contacts established by (BetherlMind the F.
throughout the years. Harvey hasalso reportedly stated t due’ to{Bethel's
"peculiar personality", heefeels it necessary that Lorton Signed to the
job in question so that frgethed] agent ve properly ezto ji ee

for CIA can

It is quite apparent that CIA will attempt to use the Bureaulsliaison
ee ae i infCanad as a. "stepping stone" for the establishment ofjtheir man
in [Canad 3)

The attached letter SYfagent [Bethel xplains the above circuastantds
and places him on his guard accordingly=. .* /-15-97

CLAS SIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON 24 fe.
sphee
a eee fe Director's Notation: “es sPk)
wl. What rd of
atonsel Hae gat ith us? JFK

HAS CTO The attached letter is un- DF Cen

. A Noe a e. satisfactory. I -dorft like : A
owe vee “OM AND/OR, j

‘ y EL

i Soren, een Pledse
K I- "20.47

108 commana BOR 16 ie 5 949
SE : ye
sol

perv O_topies mate >
wr c.° - Bieiitbcem Hesseg

CDD: tle

_ Por reviey at FETAQ’ by

" HSCA re tllefrg request
{See Bufile #28-117250)

N Die free 2/169 P>

IAL’ COPY FILED IN

HW 50953 DocId:32330762 Page 2

