# 124-90107-10376

## Page 1

124-90107-10376

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10376

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/25/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: IDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

V9.1

HN 50953

136

DooId: 32333793

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Fev. 5-22-64)

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATIOM AND/OR

FBI

RELEASE OF CIA INTORMATION

he fOiS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS Date:

7/25/66

COME

Transmit the following in KP 3-1948

(Type in plaintext or code.

AIRTEL

SLD|KSR

3-28-98

REGISTERED

class by 56L8 shes SECRET

(Priority Declassify on: DAbR

-(JFKY-

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FBI

(134-14264)-

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (134-1198)(P)

RE:

DOLPHIN

SI - CUBA

ware

ALI

biasstied by seederik

On July 19,

1966

stol lected from the

informant reflected that ENEIDO OLIVA, a former member of

RECE and ex-military. leader of RECE, is now in the Dominican

Republic.

He was also. a former.commander in Brigade 2506.

In the Dominican Republic he is contact with Col. JUAN FOLCH,

162

a Dominican. OLIVA is representing three anti-CASTRo groups,...

namely RECE, 30th of November, and Comandos L.

Through

FOLCH, OLIVA is attempting to make arrangements to

Let to Santonigh

establish a base in the Dominican Republic for the afore-

8-2-66

mentioned organizations.

These organizations will form a

military alliance

order to participate in anti-CASTRO

activities.p

*(U)

1-58

July 20,

1966, an attempt was made to contact

DAN WAGES

CIA Covert, Miami,

to determine whether or not

his agency

had an operational interest in OLIVAS WAGES was

on annual leave at the time.

However, AUSTIN HORN,

Liaison

Officer for CIA Covert, Miami,

was contacted. Inquiry was

ORIGINAL

made of him as to the status of OLIVA.

HORN

reported that

CIA locally did not have an operational interest in OLIVA,

but that inquiry

would be made at the Washington level con-

cerning OLIVA.

on July 25,

who had returned from

REASON

DATE

annual leave, telephonically®

1966, age a that CTA did have in

operational interest in OLIVA, and that the latter was in

the Dominican Republic, but was scheduled to return to the

States within a short

period of time.

According to WAGES S

OLiva was being operated from Washington(s) WAGESwas ad-

vised of the information developed by the

ing anti-CASTRO.

activities in the Dominican Republic.

17209-117222-

N/3-Bureau XRM)

NOT RECORT

C. C. Wick 1Miami

КОНА ГАННО

18

gener

gent in Charge SECRE

JUE 97-1966

Wimp Per

1341-142-644

NN 50953 DocId:32333793

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

XEm 231-2198|

requested to check with his Washington head-

quarters

to determine what portion of the information

developed by the informant might be used as build-up

materiall

SWAGES advised he would immediately contact his

for an answer, & per ciatelete

This information reported in order to keep the

Bureau advised as

to the progress

being made in this

matter.

SECRET

MaNCinENTIAL

2

HW 50953

DocId: 32333793 Page 3

---

