[i24-90137-10454)

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90137-10451
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-100077-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: | CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 06/12/1961
PAGES: 1
SUBIECTS :
ARMADA BECEA
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL \
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.

\|F¥ 50953 Docld:32337685 Page 1


red
ss]

0

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D.C:

a2 JUN 1961
TO: Director ,
Federal Bureau of. Investigation
Attention: Mr. 8.°J..Papich 7 1M
, FROM: Deputy Director, Plans (i ate
SUBJECT: Armada BECEA, Naturalized U. S. Citizen of Albanian Origin
3)
1 has requested this agency for infor-

mation of Armada BECEA (DPOB:~15 August 1917 in Albania), bearer of :
U. S. Passport No. 2427216, issued 10 August 1960. $)
claims that Subject was recently in touch with pe: 8 suspected or

collaborating with the Albanian In’ gence Service, with no furth
details given. did not indicate whether Subiect(S)
contacted the pects in or elsewhere. 19
has been asked to supply more details; their réply will be transmitt.

to you when received.

2. We will appreciate your supplying us with any vital data

and/or identifiable derogatory information on Subject which can be
passed to This Agency has no other information
on Subject. 9)

3. Copies of this request are being sent to the Department of
State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Early replies
will be appreciated from all addressees.

_6901-3/765,80.

cc Department of State
Immigration and Naturalization Service

_ COPIES MAD DATEL”
Moria i “eager. DELI
va 3h NB/
REV eeduest UA\ED ~H=
(4° (SE BUFILE 62-117290)

ECTION TO
N

_ NW 50953 DocId:32337685 Page 2
