124-10279-10020| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/7/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124~-10279-10020

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 109-12-221-1792

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:

TITLE:

08/30/1967
2

SUBJECTS :

EGD, CLASH, RIVAL FACTIONS, COPRA GROWERS UNION,
ACAPULCO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B.

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact :

DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/30/1998 f
OPENING CRITERIA: | APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS +
7
=
vol 3

HW 50953 DocId:32301685 Page 1


oi yy 7 :
* ROUTINE °
Intelligence Information Ci_le | N-41475 :

PAGE 1°OF 2 PAGES !

“GIATE/INR” DIAL NMGCG/MG(SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC_ NIC NSA OCR S00 AID
= USIA “ONE ORR DCS CGS

6

st0c! fational Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C.
- Tala material coptaing information, efecting, the Nationsl Defense Of liner to'an anuuthorized person is prohibited by iow

H Gaour T
|
NO FOREIGN DISSEM a

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

CITE TDCS-314/13013-~ 67
C-O-N-F-1-D-E-N-T-I-A-L , 3006592 bresacceasieeaneent

Cae ee ea ; REC|SB DIST 30 AUGUST 1967
COUNTRY: MEXICO ‘

DOI:
SUBJECT: UE
FOR AGITATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN GUERRERO Abe x KE oy
. see eal ceceeerarueaeersaniertaa tenia SuaECySusuraseastuaneatacasnsessiite a ncn
en Ss. 2232
: ~@QalaF
me
Aca: _ MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT BHR
. { [= jee 44 !
; NO. HMM-11,295 ey Bass
SOURCE + OFFICER WITH, ACCESS TO INFORMATION} ZS ‘Se
Sa see EE Sse
wAwO2ZS
seeennaaitt is “geo -
(e) Yours — P|
i

he

HAS BEEN RELIABLE... SINCE EARLY 1966.
: eu ie
HERE IS UNCLASSIFE
ai y
CFIELD, COMMENT, THE ROLE OF. FEDERAL DEPUTY, FROM HLTH 99
= AD 2
STATE OF. veracity, cesMECAS WK FEES Fie ae CASH ‘BE-

ALL FBI INFORMATION. CONTAINED
DKS
: Th
TWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF, THE .COPRA. GROWERS tase fi Wapurco,

tet COG OSE

Es GUERRERC, ,OVER. THE WEEKEND, -QF 19-22 AUGUST T967 » RESULTING

IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT | THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT

‘ing. sip for

ONE HUNDRED, Has BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN “PRESS.

a ae
age

by routi:

2

THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT She WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT FOR a
oO

‘HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY. HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRES

GZ SEP 114967 C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L__NO FOREIGN DISSEM 424 g-12- eer

HW 50953 DocId:32301685 Page 2



jswaest

C-O=N-F-1-b=B2N-TAIMSPN. SF Ne PETE BISSEM

wes =314713013+67

Ilys AM °67

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

WITH HIS TERM ON. i SEPTEMBER: 5

2. ON 28 auGUST 1967; AGENTS OF THE MINISTRY OF GOVERN

HE WAS LEAVING THE HOME OF ELENA

MENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED FEDERAL /ePutY Y GESAR DEL ANGEL aS
fants h)

AP 2 5 LEFTIST MEXICAN
PLAYWRIGHT: HE is BELNG INTERROGATED ABOUT dis ROLE iN THE
* ACAPULCO MURDERSS*” ~ - eg Ie Boe

alana,

3s FiELD Disses Sfaté aRWY wavY AIR FBI erweso
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISsEM og

a tos . : n
C-O-NSF-1-D-E-N-T+12ACL,

« 7 Pane i ;
os Sem 7 i ‘fae : ‘
ai . \e

HW 50953 DocId:32301685 Page 3

