# 124-90106-10154

## Page 1

124-90 106-10154

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90106-10154

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-193

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CIA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/07/1964

2

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

- RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

LET

v9.1

HW 50953

DocId: 32333298

Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

SEOKLI

TOTA

RAu

What do que

Tuya Cuban

Express

AUTHORIZED BY THE CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARO OF THE UN

D. STATES

OSCAR C. DE TUYA

PRESIDENT

OSCAR DE TUYA. JA.

VICE-PRESIDENT

JORGE DE TUYA

VICE-PRESIDENT

*Of'T an EXPRESS FROM,THE UNITED STATES AND EURORE TO CUBA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION. TO

PLICABLE CURANCUP LCR

Miami, Florida,

• December 7th, 1964.

NOCKTONIO 0

DEGLASSICA NO% ANDUOR

UBAN EXPRESS BLDG.

RELEASE OF CIA INTORI SHASHEIVEDADO

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

H9: ĐOX 268

HABANA, GUER 1

CIG

KP 3-19-981

G

251

(st/nice

Cury Ci

Dear Sir

VSER

TUYA CUBAN'EXPRESS BLOG.

3600 N.W. 36 TH STREET

P.0. BOX 49-51

INTERNATIONAL MIFFORT

SCENCE MANFA

Sam der na:

C0NЛ1U18R

For several years Tuya Cuban Expres was favored with your air shipments

to Cuba.

In 1960, due to the communist lake-over, cand the imprisonment of

my fat her and me, our ope rations were discontinued, Hoday, we are engaged

in the struggle against communism through "Comandos: I", and I come to ask

for your sup port.

Comando's "I"' wa's created in 1962 by a group of freedom-loving Cubans, most

of them businessmen and professionals, with no personal or political ambi-

tions other than the liberation of Cuba. Their efforts and accomplishments

were clearly di sclosed by LIFE magazine of April 12th, 1963, whose front

cover displayed a nemorable drawing of the attack on the Russian Ship Baku.

Lam convinced that victory over communism can be achieved if we

recognize.

that the international communist conspiracy is waging totai war against us,

and that the re-establishment of democracy in Cuba is the greatest contribu;

tion we can make now to the sacred cause of world peace, a cause "for which

many, memberk ot Comand os "I" have given their lives

Stand with Comandos "I". Give us your spiritual support and your financial

aid noge our wat

Your contribution will help provide the solid fin ancial backing neede

war against communism, today firmly entrenched only 90 miles

from your shores.

ALL IAFORMATIOR SORT:

NUASE IO ANCLASSIPIER

With best personal regards, I remain

RECEPT WHERE SHOWD

DIPSIWISE

Sincerely yours,

TUXA CUBAN EXPRESS

O'scar

C.

de Tuya, Jr.

Executive Vice President

Enclosure's

3: 28-98

CLASSIMEDBY 5668 SiD/ISR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

(JER)

SECRET

SEORET

Tied

classing

NH 50953 DocId:32333298 Page 2

---

