{/124-10284-10172| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10284-10172

HQ

CR 105-82352-1

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

* RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
SAC, MM »
DIRECTOR, FBI

10/27/1959
1

EPE, GONZALEZ, CARLOS HILARIO, SUSP, CONSPR,

MURDER, VENTURA, ESTEBAN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B

Redact

06/03/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

vol

HW 50953 DocId:32303660 Page 1


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) * :
ee : meg a ‘ : : mh

ad : | f Ge

“| {|}

BI cE

ee Date: 10/27/59

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL : _ATRMAIL _DECL ASS CRON eS

FROM: SAC, at iT \(105-

CARLO: fs pee GONZALEZ
IS - ‘CUBA; RA - CUBA

Enclosed are 1
concerning an alleged plo na the subject to kill ESTEBAN \
VENTURA, NOVO. The source of the information in enclosed
CUBA Amemo isl ii
i aes 10/2h/5$ ‘and advised]

an undereove i

ig
Suave ha 8 been described as ey

(Type in plain text or code) ECTION TO
ue CIA HAS NO eR,

AMATION ae

igure in the Cuban ree andy
as, definitely. a. Communi, ARKER ad
on 10/7/59 that he works for at in an undéPreover capacity

in Cuba. \This memorandum i ssified confideatial to 4
sourespy ‘ 7 a

‘“s source

Nt VENTURA has been finished to the Miami Police Department
and the Dade County Department of Public Safety. ESTEBAN
VENTURA will be advised that there is possibly a plot to
kill him, but that no protection can be given him by this
Bureau. A = eo

3 Information concerning the alleged plot against |

Declassify
Bureau (AM) (Enc1-11)(%m) :

~.Miami (2 -'105- CARLOS HILARIO GONZALEZ) PBA He 169 Y
eee 1 - 105-1715, Cuban Retailiati ion
Against Batista Adherent s) 5

(1 = 105-1720, ESTEBAN -VENT
WBH:s11 ee ,
(7) ma rot Anh 2.03 CAL ON).
ae pee

DATE FORW. =.

Wey rhage eS joc co 1989 fg

FfAI(77 pse/-
for review at Jiy/}

«
NRECORDED COPY FILED IN Ja Fe) _

pies mhae™

=

<a

HW 50953 DocId:32303660 Page 2
