# 124-90158-10056

## Page 1

124-90158-10056

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90158-10056

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-7116

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CIA

HQ

DATE: 11/01/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS:

LUIS POSADA

CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32340399

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ELLIONG

CENTRAL

Intelligence Information Cavie

• ROUTINE.

IN 085155

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

STATE/INR

SCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS

NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO

NIO CRS

(SY/I/PIB)

SS/ID;

FBI

SECUR

Classitiad by

led Roporting Officer.

Exempl

Feneral Declafication Sched A 00S RemaECTION TO

Category 5B (1)

Impossible to Determine Date of

omatic Declassification.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE- OF THIS INFORMATION SUBLECLATEE OF CIA INFORMATION

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF REPORN: THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIR DB- 315/10512-70-98

SECRET

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Political Matters- Cuba

DIST

1 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE

TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS- - DISSEMINATION AND

EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED

BY ORIGINATOR

ADAMANLINGS

COUNTRY CUBA/VENEZUELA

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTING

HEREIN IS UNGLASZIMED

DOI

28 OCTOBER 1976

DATES

SPEmACKSR

JFK)

SUBJECT COMMENTS OF CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN VENEZUELA OP

PERSONS DETAINED BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION

WITH THE CUBANA AIRLINE CRASH

ACQ

4-13

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (30 OC59-08 DE40

1976 REC-57, 09-12

SOURCE A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE CONTACIS IN BUSINESS,

GOVERNMENT, POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES. HIS: -.

RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

LA NOV IT 1978

1. ON 28 OCTOBER 1976 OFFICIALS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN...

CARACAS, VENEZUELA, SAID THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA (GOG) IS

WAITING TO SEE WHAT THE VENEZUELANS ARE GOING TO DO WITH THE INDI-

5

VIDUALS UNDER DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER CRASH OF A

3

CUBANA AIRLINER

THE

EMBASSY HAS AS YET RECEIVED NO CAba

INSTMAR IONS FROMGAVANA, AND THE CUBAN OFFICIALS PREDICTED THAT THE

• SECRET

DEC

11976

laritondon

HH 50953 Docid: 32340399 Page 2

5

---

## Page 3

1-73

Editlons

Moreone Pies diss

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

90158-10056

IN 085155

TDFIR DB-315/10912-76

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

REGFURTHERV DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRETLL TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(diasem controlo)

GOC WOULD NOT MAKE'À FIRM DECISION UNTIL 2 NOVEMBER, SINCE THE

COURT'S FINDINGS ARE DUE FOR PRESENTATION ON 1 NOVEMBER. (FIELD

COMMENT: ON 29 OCTOBER THE LOCAL PRESS INDICATED THAT THE COURT'S

DECISION WOULD BE MADE DURING THE WEEK OF 1 NOVEMBER.)

THE CUBAN OFFICIALS, HOWEVER, SAID THAT THEY BELIEVE THAT

ORLANDO BO SEH, LUIS O SA DA, HERMAN I CAREG, AND WEN

FREDDY/L U GO, THE FOUR DETAINEES, WOULD/BE RELEASED BY THE

VENEZUELANS. DAVIDAM O RA

L'E

S BELLO,

A-LEADER OF THE DEMO-

CRATIC ACTION PARTY (AD), THE CUBANS' SAID, WANTS THE FOUR MEN RE-

LEASED. ONE OF MORALES' 'LAW ASSOCIATES IS, A GOOD FRIEND OF JUDGE

DELTA!

E

ST A BA, WHO IS HEARING THE CASE, AND MORALES' REQUEST

FOR THE

RELEASE OF THE FOUR IS BEING MADE VIA THIS LAW ASSOCIATE.

(SOURCE COMMENT: THE CUBANS DID NOT ELABORATE ON THE REASON

MORALES WANTED THE MEN RELEASED, NOR DID THEY IDENTIFY THE LAW

ASSOCIATE.)

3. BOSCH, THE CUBANS SAID, WOULD PROBABLY BE TURNED OVER TO

UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BOSCH BE FLOWN OUT OF VENEZUELA

VIA PANAMA, THE CUBANS SAID, THE GOC WOULD TAKE BOSCH OFF THE PLANE

IN PANAMA REGARDLESS OF WHICH AIRLINE IS USED TO TRANSPORT HIM.

IN ANY EVENT, THE CUBAN OFFICIALS INSISTED THAT, IF THE FOUR MEN

WERS RELEASED, THEY WOULD BE KILLED. THE CUBANS SAID THAT THE

• SECRET

(dissert controls

NW 50953 Docid: 32340399 Page 3

5

3

---

## Page 4

1- 1J

BalLIONg

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE

- INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

NVOLVED

IN 085155

TDFIR DB-315/10912-76

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

→ closem controls)

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, AND THE

CUBAN EXILES ALL HAVE REASON TO WISH THE FOUR DEAD AS A MEANS OF

KEEPING THEM QUIET. THE CUBAN OFFICIALS SAID THAT THE CUBAN

GOVERNMENT INTENDED TO KILL THEM, UNLESS ANOTHER GROUP DID IT

FIRST. THE CUBANS SAID THAT NO MATTER WHICH GROUP ACTUALLY

CARRIED OUT THE ASSASSINATIONS, EVERYONE WOULD BELIEVE THE CUBANS

WERE RESPONSIBLE. THE FOUR MEN, THE CUBANS SAID, MUST PAY FOR

THEIR ACTIONS BECAUSE, SHOULD THEY GO FREE, OTHER INDIVIDUALS OR

GROUPS WOULD BE ENCOURAGED TO ATTACK CUBANS ANYWHERE. (FIELD

COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBA'S INTENTIONS TOWARDS THOSE

7522, TDFIRDB-315/10534-76,

IMPLICATED IN THE CUBANA CRASH SEE HVG

OF 21 OCTOBER, FROM THE SAME SOURCE.)

4. WHILE THE OFFICIAL CUBAN COMMUNITY IN CARACAS HAS ALWAYS

BEEN CAUTIOUS, SINCE THE CUBANA ATTACK THEIR PRECAUTIONS HAVE BEEN

INCREASED. THE CUBAN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THE AMBASSADOR, CURRENTLY

CARRY TWO PISTOLS AT ALL TIMES. A LARGE CALIBER PISTOL IS CARRIED

IN MEN'S PURSES, WHICH ARE FASHIONABLE IN CARACAS. A SMALLER

CALIBER PISTOL IS CARRIED IN THEIR BELTS.

5. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS: SENT TO PANAMA

5

4

CITY, CINCSO (J-2 ONLY)

REPORT CLASS-SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

1

• SECRET

It 500 not 325a0 conte

(@15s0m c07tT0L8)

5

3

---

## Page 5

7-73

Editions

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

40158-10056

IN 085155

TDFIR DB-315/10912-76

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS - - NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS. DISSEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR. CLASSIFIED

RY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS- 2.

5

3

1

• SECRET

5

4

3

---

