# 124-10277-10447

## Page 1

124-10277-10447

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

6/4/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10277-10447

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-122

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/09/1964

•PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ASSOC, OBA, ACA, BOMBING RAIDS, SUGAR

CENTRALS, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM, 2 MEMO

19.1

NH 50953

18

DocId: 32301112

Page 1

---

## Page 2

7781

MI. J. Walter Yeagley

assistant Attorney Generals 10 ShinGs dune 16, 156

97-4474=

Director, TBt L 2

DECLASSIC CATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIR INFORMATION # 14651

IN THIS DOCUMENT. mKh 2-6-98

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

CIA NAFOLPS) REMANIS

CLASGI

OFER THEM

-104

RECUPERACION. REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

12/2201152

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

9803 rela gil €211,326

NEUTRALITY MATTERS.

32602

Reference Is made to previous Information which has

been furnished to you concerning the captioned anti-Castro

Morganization.

Attached for your information are single coples of

two memoranda, both dated June 9, 1964, at Miami, Florida.

10,326

7/24/84

OADR

Classified ty

Declassity o

A representative of the Central Intelligence Agency

(u)

interest in the MIRR or in Ita leader, Orlando Bosch Avil

Our Miami Office,

on June 9, 1964, advised that

It had furnished the information to the Bureau of Customs

In Miami and that Customs indicated It was taking appropriate

steps to stop the new operation.

MAILED 25,

JU11 61564

The information in the attached memoranda has been

furnished to the interested agencies including the Bureau of

Customs; the United States Coast Guard; and the Federal

Aviation Agency.

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLocch

Evans

Tale

losen

ullivan.

'avel

(rotter

aimes -

andy

In view of the action being taken by the Bureau of

Customs, no investigation is being conducted by this Bureau.

Any additional pertinent information, however, which may be

received in this matter will be made avatlable to you and to

the interested agencies.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REF ERRAL DOCUMENT

97-44741

HEREIN IS UMBLASSIFIED EXCEPT FOI/PAH C

12901

- Enclosures - 2

WHERE SHOW THE S

APPEAL #

CIVILACI #

30072235

DATE S3/415

-2 - Miami (105-2855)

_INITIALS?0

-1 - 105-112098 (Alpha 66)

NAMI, PAGE TWO.

on a con

ON

- VHN: Jak

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PAGE 1HO.

whel

SECRET

KAS 12/22841 LTD

NW 50953

DocId: 32301112 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1 - Mr. Sullivan

FOR STOTT _(S)

1 - Mr. Nasca

REC- 39

97-4474 - 122- June 17, 1964

SECRET

R1465|

NS:

MOVIMIENIO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRK)

EX 104

Reference is made to previous information furnished

you concerning captioned anti-Castro organization.

Kecently, a source who has furnished insufficient

Incormation to evaluate his reliability advised that

Orlando-Bosch Avila, head of MIRR, is making plans to use

an airstrip, not yet selected, in the Bahamas for the purpose

of carrying out raids against Cuba. Two of Bosch's men,

Jesus Sanchez Martinez and (first name unknown) Gonzalez,

will be transported by a fast speedboat to this airstrip

along with about one dozen homemade impact bombs constructed

by Sanchez. An airplane which will be piloted by an unidentified

Anerican reportedly is scheduled to rendezvous on the Bahama

island with Sanchez and Gonzalez, both of whon will accompany

the American pilot on two consecutive bombing raids, spaced

one or two days apart, for the purpose of dropping bombs on

sugar centrals in the Oriente Province of Cuba.

The source stated that the date of the raid has

not yet been set. The speedboat will be brought fron Mlani,

Florida, to some location north of Miami end then will depart

under cover of darkness for the Bahamas. The plane is scheduled

to depart from its Bahanian airstrip at about 3 a.m. for Cuba

so that the attack can be made ducing the early hours of dawn.

The same source further advised that Bosch has

also entered into a secret pact with Alpha 66, an anti-Castro

organization headguartered in Miami, to attack a British freighter

carrying equipment to Cuba. This attack reportedly will be

97-4474

JUN 17.1954

Declassify on: OADR

- London

50429

1(38/88)

GECAIN

527321

- - Foreign Liaison Unit

SCE

NOLE PAGE TWO.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

TELETYPE UNIT LE

- WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

7/23-194

SECRET

v°

MN 50953

DocId:32301112

Page 3

---

## Page 4

[rOR STOrT 5

83:

SECRET

MOVIMIENIO INSURRECIONAL US

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

ZECHEL

made from the Bahamas at some future time following completion

of the current plans of the captioned organization to bomb

the sugar centrals.

We are making this infornation available to the

eppropriate Bahantan authorities.

NOTE:

He have separately furnished this information to the

Departnent and interested agencies. He have advised the

Department that since Custons was taking steps to stop the MIRR

operation, we are conducting no investigation. We have also

separately instructed Miani to furnish this information to the

appropriate Bahamian authorities with whom the Miami Office has

been previously in contact in this case.

SECRET

97-4477442

17 50953*

DooId: 32301112 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SE

4sCS

REVieWED BY STUFK TASK FORCE

Mr. J. Walter Teagley

Assistant Attorney General

ON 7-23-97 lal

DO RELEASE IN FULL

NOTE FOR SAC, MIAMI:

• RELEASE IN PART

Reurairtel 6/9/64 with enclosures.DEWüknish the pertinent

information transmitted in your 6/9/64 airtel to the appropriate

Bahanian authorities. Keep Bureau, Interested agencies and

Bahanian authorities currently advised of all pertinent developments

NOTE:

MIRR, anti-Castro organization, has been involved in

cartying out raids against Cuba, some of which have been twarted

by U. S. authorities. On three previous occasions, planes, boats,

equipment, bombs and personnel have been seized by Custons authori-

ties. In connection with a previous plan to attack Cuba, Departuent,

in April, 1964, specifically advised it was requesting Custons,

Federal Aviation Agency and Coast Guard to take all possible

measures to prevent the attack. As recently as May 12, 1964,

Customs seized a homemade torpedo which was scheduled to be used

in a MIRR attack against a Cuban vessel. This attack failed to

materialize.

Information has now been received indicating that MIRR

is planning new attack against Cuba. This attack reportedly entails

use of airstrip in the Bahanas fron which two consecutive bombing

used islands in the Bahamas as base from which to launch such

attacks and we have previously advised Bahardan authoritles of these

activitles. KU

MIRR leader reportedly has also entered into secret pact

with Alpha 66, Miami anti-Castro organization, [to attack British

freighter carrying equipment to Cuba. Reportedly, this attack

will also be made from Bahamas at some future time following

completion of current glago MR to bomb Cuban sugar ingel 55105

Letter classified

"Secret" since it implies CIA

engaged in activity directed against Cuba, the unauthorized

disclosure of which could cause serlous damage to nationel

defense intere a(ff u)

ZECHEL

SECRET

= 2-

AND ALL

/CLASSIFIEO ER

CAS 14/2

9803 ndd/99l 4211,320 3/26/92

91-4479-127

NT 50950г

DocId: 32301112 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO-as (9ev. 10-29463)

FBI

CONFISENTIAL

THEN THEN HAS NU GE JECTIONAI

SECKET

RE

6/9/64

ARRAL DOCUIENT

FOI/PAY

21420

(Type in plain text of code)

CIVIL ACT

DECI

Via -

RECE

CIA INFORMATIONE MAIL, - REGISTERED

E.0.

-THIs DOCUMENT. EXCEpT foR banc/zs

(Priority)

INITIALS

IN 77X7 77775-2-7-98

AFFROPRIACE 40

- 39-

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4479)

15410

3LT

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

8/3)

18 UNCLASSIF

SHOWH OTH

HOVTMTENTO

INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPFRACION

2-14-980.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SCA

REVOLUCIONARIA

IS - CUBA; NM

(MIRR) ESPERA

60L 722/12 562)

(00: Miami)

ASSAIN

165-112098

Classified bysi

Declassily

Rosse

HH

ALL INFORMA &

288% SAFE)

CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS U

ASSIFIED

DATE 2202,

Enclosed are 12 copies of LIM re

captioned

4

organization,

Copies are being furnished locally to State

Dept. Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Border Patrol, Coast

Guard, G-2, OSI, Customs (Miami and Region II), FAA, INS,

ONI and CIA.

4

/ M I-1 18

Cuban pilot.

/MM T-2 L& WILLIAN, JOHNSON, 1271 N.W. 1

Ter., Miami.

Fla:

n 6/8/64, Mr.

A Covert, advised

that CIA

has no interest in BOSCH or the MIRR.

The MiamifolU6.

Office has Immediately notified Customs of all

pertinent

6/C0k

developmente in this case and Customs is taking appropriate

steps to stop this new

operation.

4

Miami will maintain close contact with

assed of does plaste energia c

Bureau

advised

12

3 - Bureau (Bac. 183) (AM) (RM)

sifurola..

1 - Miami

58499y 10: CZA/State/

Ia's/ aRimmi's TFAN

WAS A

GED: egh

(4)

ну точная вкр for taio.

Sent

c CONFIDEN

Agent in Charge

'ET"

FOREIGN

50953

DocId: 32301112

CO

FBI CIA chast

---

## Page 7

Fb-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

F BI'

CONFIDENTIAL

Transmit

SICKLI

RE

CHIA HAS NONG SIỆCTION TO

(Type in plain

text or code)

6/9/64

•RUSFERRAL DOCUMENT

FOI/PA

APPEAL A

CIVIL ACT

E. 0gTr

Via — DELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONS MAIL - REGISTERED

* THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT toR brAc/uzs

(Priority)

4 INITIALS

APFROPRIACE 43

IN 805-7777-2-76-408

AS NETS OFFIC

0739-

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474

ADVISE

SETP

AniL

INFORMATION CONTATIED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 5a

VIMTENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA: (MIRR) (SPSmelL Ta/su JFK DECLASSIFY IN: 25% 2,

IS - CUBA; NM

(00: , Miami)

Classified by in

plate el

04/184

2,369

st: 213,96

ALL INFORMAL

ON CONTAINED

HEREIN SU

ASSIFIED

Enclosed are 12 copies of LHM re

captioned

organization.

Copies are being furnished locally to State

Dept. Coordinator of Cuban Affairs,

Border Patrol, Coast

Guard, G-2, OSI, Customs (Miami and Region II), FAA,/ INS,

ONI and CIA.

MM T-1 I8 EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, Cuban pilot.

/MM I-2 18 WILLIANT TOHNSON, 1271 N.W.

Ter., Miami. Fla

180th

on 6/8/04, Mr. |GORDON ROTHWE,

lA Covert, advised

that CIA has no interest In BOSCH or the MIRR. The Miami®/&*

Office has immediately notified Customs of all pertinent

developments in this case and Customs is taking appropriate

steps to stop this new

operation.

Bere

6/10%

UNN.

Miami will maintain close contact with ALPIZAR and

JOHNSON, and close liaison.

advised of further

C3/ - Bureau (Enc. 18) (AM) (RM)

1 - Miami

Sany 10: CTA/Staté/1hg

disre our

151964

GED: egh

ON/OST/ACST/Dia/ Custom's

Croad bu

"*(4)

routing aip for no

"WASKA

stur

ONFIDEN

Agent in Charge

act is cia

Sent -

SEGRET

NW 50953

DocId: 32301112

Page 7

1050

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

JAi!

illi

_copies nade

5SG CW 4:18.38.

Johnson.

SCAND 3-1477

CONFIDENTINL

SECRET

C

NH 50953

DocId: 32301112

Page

8

---

## Page 9

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITE* STATES DEPARTMENT OF SUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

June 9, 1964

RE:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECHIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Prevlous investigation has reflected that Dr.

Orlando (Boser Avila, head of the MIRR, an anti-Castro organ-

azat at the a come a to an on par, Foe cha

vessel recently avoided the east coast of South Florida on a

voyage from Marseilles, France, to Havana, Cube. This ship

departed Marseilles on May 4, 1964, and was scheduled to dock

In Havana on May 25, 1964.

On May 26, 1964, MM I-1, a Cuban exile who is

friendly with some of Bosch's close associates, advised that

Bosch has begun to lay new plans for another attack againat

Cuba.

Current Investigation

Cig

May 28 1964, MM T-1 reported that on May 27,

1964, Jesus banchez/Martinez, who 1s also known as "Mimi",

and Evel1o/Alpizar) Perez, associates of Bosch, went to

Orlando, Florida, upon instructions of Bosch, to examine two:

airplanes with the view of renting one or both for the next

MIRR operation. MM T-1 said that Sanchez and Alpizar were

transported from Miami to Orlando, and return, by an American,

age about 47, 5'g" tall, weighing 180 pounds, black andigray:

hair, known only as "Otis", and a friend of Bosch.

"Otis"

was accompanied by his wife or girl friend, named "Carole".

MM T-1 said Bosch decided against renting either of these

planes at Orlando, both of which were owned by a medical

doctor, because of exorbitant rental fees demanded.

JU:

110)

30-"

#242761

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

113-905p844-66-15998,369

AW 50953 DocId: 32301112 Page 9

---

