# 124-10285-10054

## Page 1

124-10285-10054

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD, SERIES :

FBI

124-10285-10054

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-210-4039

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

CIA

DATE: 07/05/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CC, ARMY OFFICERS, CUBAN EXILE, POLIT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32304042 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.

NORMATIN CO TAMER

DATES/ 13/29

BY 526F

19 en

Machel

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Into mararin contains iciontation at.

tintorage Lawb. tibe

an la probibited by law.

COUNTRY

Cuba

#R-E-T

NO. FO

DISSEM/CONTROLSED DISSAN

Military + NAVel MAHeNORT NO

CS DB-312/01870-66

5 July

• 1966

SUBIECT,

1 ,

2

Officer: Who

aze. Members

Sth

July

Movement

Lances

Leading

Army

icers

437490779768

the

NO. PAGES

2

REFENGNCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &.

DATE ACQ.

Late April ard mid-June

1956

• CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 613197

ASSANITIZED

See belov

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

iNFORMATION

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

See below on"

France, Paris (21 June 1966)

Source, Para

(6)

B

Immid-Juine

"way

out"

(French:

1965 do tuls

toup of officers was

said

to be

looking for

sortie!) for Castro' Although informed

affair closoly.

of this.projectt.mhig crom

Castro staking no action, while: following the

the dith of July Movement,

Cuban Có

(PCC) Central Committee me

Humber

Rana, Director

national

* Service

United: States (11: June 1966)

Сива

Source, P0xa.

42:

prominond Cuban exile with well detined poli-,

"tical ambitions;

source

Isa

fairly reliable reporter?

In addi-

tion to maintaining, an unusually large number of

direct and in

direct. contacts

anong Cuban exples and infliential Latin Amexican

nationals,,

he has

some contacts in Cuba::

Source. said that he

tained this information from a governmental employee on the island

2

In late April: 1965

•unrest

thin

FAR:was unquesti

nable, and

Bilitary

cigaders

Mosque,

Sergio de

211€

imenez,

and, Pedr

iret,

Who have gained the respect

and adnira-

Ton t the troops

gave

the appearance

of supporting the régime

more out of loyalty:

than

of conviction.

2. These men

are devoted

to their miditary- duties,

and:they follow the leader or the cause

for which/they

fought against. Batista

Co

minist ideology.

waist stra Verda bicunge and

it becoming influenced

Victor

members,. are

isolated

Troops:

is preoccupied

with his

job:in the Havana

Psychiatric ..formery

Hospitalgrand Bordon has been re-

legated to an unimportant post: 3.,

JOY FOREIGAI

ASSEM COVTEOLLED DISSEN

STATE

L DIA

ARMY

INCSO.*

NPTO rOSA?DOS&T

(Note: Fieta distriburion" in'dilated by.l*".

Retre

1330

SEP 2 4 1973

XEROXED ORIGINAL-RETAIN

a tie

1194

113-2-21

60953

DocId

:32304042

Page 2

---

## Page 3

EP

285-10054

•2X-108

REC6/13-7-210

- 4039

S-C-O-R-DIT

NO FOPTION DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM 14kC

C3D3-312/02820536

0040F

Headquarters Comments

parasian) dentities

Not CS-311/08789-66

other Army mesors who are said to be

continuerg, eiforts to.crganizera

webellion; Miret and

Cástello vere

not mencibned in

the spanish service report.

castello is reportedly en intimate friend of faur

Sentonon

Medievilla:/Minister/carcansportationand leader

13th of March Revolutionary Directozale:

"an organizatio.

which Castarlo. veronged:

сива

2.

Unlike Wiret and dei. varfe,

Almeida' is

not: a POC Central

Committee member; del Valle is a member ofitfe. Politiesl

Bureau and also.of the Revolutionary Armed Forces and Scate

Security Committee

of the Central: Conmittee of the Poc.

3.

TDCS-3)4/02675-66 contains Bordon's comments about ünrest.

to the FAR;

which,

"in histopinion, is'greater everyday but

does not pose a curtent threat to the Castro régime bécause

nutual distrust' between officers, noncormissioned officers,

and enlistedimen: makeshany united

action

"impossible

....Bordon

:is one: offoumercus

Arny ofticers: whose arlest. hes beer re-

ported by

refugee. sources. in the purge

which followed the

Cubelaitrial..

CS-311/05970-66 and reports referenced therein

contain speculation on'

ing the possibility that the purge is dtrected

the reasons behind eted ur members

inciud-

of the 13th of March

Revolutionary Directorate

Kitte

2X-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLER NOSEM

NH 50953

DocId: 32301042 Page 3

---

