# 144-10001-10203_full release_20171026_ref id a4269467

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4269467

,. .

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 10/16/95

Page: 1

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER: 144-10001-10203

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM : NSA

TO : W.C. SULLIVAN

TITLE :

LEE HARVEY OSWALD INTERNAL SECURITY

DATE : 11/26/63

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS :

INFOR ON OSWWALD AND CUBAN COMMS

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

IRI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

11?900

NO, 10

Doc Ref ID: A4269467

UNITED STATES CC

Memorandum

3010-103

Crizian

Drisch

Gogo

:, in. W. C. SULLIVAN

DATE: Hovember 20, 1963

ROM : D. J. BRONIN, JR. A

T=..:

Tris- Rosa

Ceri

UBJECT:

ICK MARVEY

OSWAL'S

INTORNAL SECURITY

On Novender 26, 1963, ily: A. H, Young,

Production

Group B (Cuban) of Nacional Security Agency (OSA), contacted

Liaison Agent io advise that iSA is undertaling a

projectio

determine Thether recent radio traffic betreen Cuba and the U.S,

nay possibly contain any incoration of significance in captioned

case, particularly any incoration which night indicate a

connection between the Cuban Goverment and Oswald's assassination

of President hennecy.

Young stated that NSA has in their files copies. of

numerous radio messages between the J.S, and Cuba obtained

through NSA monitoring activities; that this traffic, Maich

averages approxznately 1,00o messages par day, is nuch too.

voluminous or an examination of each nessage; anu tnat toagu

no a say no so not

a mechanical concuter process. they intend to select for further

examination any nessage sent during the past three months which

mighi contain the name of Ostald.. They also desire to inciade

in this conpuier project a selection of messages containing

namesof any close associates of osaid, particularly in she

Fair Play for Cuba Cormittee, as nell as any significani

-.:

addresses which nay have

been found among ostald's aftects.

Young asked whether e could review

the resuits of

investigations of Osvald and furnish iSA

significant contacts as neil as addresses found in his efrects.

---"

After checking with the Espionage Section, Liaison

furnished Young the full name of subjects wife and

the alias,

fidelf; which he used in purchasing the nurder reapon by mail.

He has

advisey, that our investigation in this case is stirl

under nay, that it is very extensive, and that upon conpiation

He mill revier the resulis for the purpose of determining

whether there are additional logical names or addresses

partient to the NSA project. Young auvised that they will

inmediately make the firsi run on this projuct with the names

GIlL : hise' (8)

REG 40 155-50÷50.

1-Ir. Belmont

-1-Liaison

I-á. kosen

•I-iir. take

-=

I-iir. Sullivan

1-:r. Branigan - Attention: Mr. Turner 2-27 2793

5

1-82 - Harnall

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc Ref ID: A4269487

Memorandum fro

Ilt.

RE:

LOS HARVEY

OS:(AL)

INTEKRAL SECURITY - R

Brennan to Mr. Sulliv

now available, and will make further runs with any additional

names we can furnish.

He said that the project is considered

very urgent at lisa, and they would appreciaic receiving iron

us as soon as possible any adaitional signiiicant names and

addresses. He also advised that should any significant data

be developed by NSi, it will be referred to us inmediately.

ACTION:

Espionage Section will give consideration as io

additional names and addresses te nay be able to furnish iSA

from results of our investigations of this subject

V..

---

## Page 4

NO. 10

8010-100

IDIION

NO. 88

Doc Ref ID: A42946ED STATI

IMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. 1. C. SullivanuCLe

Tairre

$-12.71

Bah:

Cal! r. zn

Carist

Felosca

DATE: December 4, 1963

FROM

D. Jo Brennan, I/l

Y SEERED

SUBJECT:

LET MARVEY

OSWALD

INTERVAL SECURITY • R

Holes -

Gandy

My memo of 11/26/63 advised that National Security Agency

(NSA

is undertaking a project to determine whether recent radio traffica

between.CubanandU.Sogwhichaison.filerat.NSApnay.possibly contains

a hancomputer ones aner baptines containing the name done.

aliasest oftOswald

nasswellraswanysignlticantraddresses andscontacts

which we furnish NSA, vill be mechanically selected for further study.

On 12/3/63/MraAH. Young, Production GroupeB=14 NSA,

advised Liaison AgentrthatanSA has/completed-that-part of this- project

"Involving the name of Oswald sand no messages containing this name were

detected

INSA examined all messages between Cuba and New Orleans

and Cuba" and-Dallas and nothing significant was noted.: Young advised

that.this-project-covers only-messages-since«10/6/63-asthese are the

only ones which vere recorded on"tape and-are thereby-susceptible to

examination through the computer process= The Cuba U.S, traffic is,

too voluminous for personal examination. s

Young advised that NSA will carsy this project further to!

includeschecking for messages containing the names of significant

contacts of the subject as wellas significant addresses, as soon as

we furnish NSAr such-contacts andaddresses fromour-investigation result

ACTION:

None.

This is for information. As noted in referenced memo

of 11/26/63,

Soviet-Sectionwillgive. consideration asto additional

namesand addresses-we haybeable to furnish NSA from results of-Our

investigation in this case.a"

GHL: mab (8)

REG 19

li

132

1 - Mir.

Belmont

- Mir.

Rosen

-

1

1

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

-

Hr.

Branigan - Attn: Mr. Turner

liannall

• Liaison

1 - Mr. Lake

SECRET

N3E0 DEC

:

-

-----

1/8,101140

20Y0

109

530 0200570

01.0

"TON INDEFINITE

---

