# 144-10001-10278_full release_20171026_ref id a4274867

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4274867

)ATE: 10/08/9

AGE:.

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10278

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

NSA

TITLE

EAST GERMAN PARTY RÉPORTS ON REACTIONS TO DEATH OF US PRESIDENT

PAGES : 11/26/63

ASSASSINATION,

SUBJ COEN KENNEDY

DOCUMENEATYOR PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

ERI

DRY H4:

NSAI

98

dancien

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TEN LANC

11193

3H7E2-912M

45924

[R]

• ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note

---

## Page 2

Doc Ref ID: A4274867

70P GEET DINAR

26 Nov 63

Do EAST CURMAN PANTY REPORTS ON REACCIONS TO DEATH OF US PRESIDENT

Reports of 43 November sent by radiotelephone from Last

cormen socialist Unity Farts (SED) heads

(8/88/067/1284-638

marter in three o& the fourteen admir

LatItive diatrets in Tant termny have noted Initin revetiona

In Bast derany to the 2a November assassination of President

sonnedy. Batracts sion there reporte follow:

Ka71

B23K Bt0d, 0345 EST, 23 Novembar

"ruth infomation report.

iRo: Assanuination of Us President Kennedy.

"Recording to a report from kield (oounty)

haadguarters Brand Erbiaadort, stroaners of black

displayed this evening in the Krols

Cary in connection with the assaunination of the

President or the United Stated.

enda 1a conentratod in particular on tro

cherughtered.

*Crore nas Likewine displayed In the show window

01 the

As l1.0.. Sosiety for Sport and Technology

TOT SECRET DINAR

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

... ..

..-

Doc Ref ID: A4274867

26 Nov 63

on the show window &f the raidroud stacion on

the board on sahnholetranse. on a wooden does at

the railroad station, in the maiting room o! the

Roichstans, and in the siting room of the vat

(Poopies oned Interprisel frastvertens.

"In addition tO this, 88r10r Kerked trem

oratio Repubile! flag with red, hite, and siue

bunting this morning. Responsible somades held

deession men him.

"In jar! ins Stadt opposite the via webere!®

Ausrunstung us weared In thise old paint:

Hermany mourns for Kennedy. ' A aimilar slogan ine

placed opposite the Could of Krion Karl Mary Stadt

Rurad

"Colleague Nawann of the PIl 11.. Producera Coop-

orative for Endlerart) Iriamre, Osalarzky S6r8s80

dog a890.

The red did It, there will to a Borid

mar for Bure.

TOP SHORES DINAR

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref ID: A4274867

TOP 9099 DINA

26 Nov 63

Sunhe 0600 IST, 23 Nevenber

Generally the porkers in the (Sunt) Baria

(aie8rl0t) more of the opinion thet Prosident

Kennedy me mriored because he me & supporte

of poses; because he yas one of the first to sen

the Moscor frest-bang treaty; and beccuse he took

stops against racial disorimination in the Uniced

seates.

Many workers had arrived at the conciusion

that the asessaination ms carried out by ra01a1

fanatios. Anong older residents of the Bealrig

the murdor of Kennedy ras Compared 10 4h9 3002081-

nation of Archduke Ferdinand in SaraJer.

There

nore aise those wo mie porried about the now

President, Johnson, and now h0 tuld 80t toNard te

question of relaration of tensiong, pense, and

relal diverimination.

In the laut for hours, sirects of the ellas

antagoniatel setivity have alpady becone evident.

There has been further discusion to the erreet

tast the murder was comteed by Cenuiste

in

sInis report 10 avallable in sumary for only.

GOD SHORTY DINAR

---

## Page 5

:

Doc Ref ID: A4274867

TOP ENGARY DINAR

26 NeY

63

Inunsha, Krait Neuhaus am Beng, several resto

dents stated that the assassin spent many yeara

an the ussi, srayed nant in tues, and than s

sent

so the us with the mission to kill Femedy.

It mag

Learned In dinounsion at the places con.

soned that these and mimilar angumento came stan

festom broaderats, and such arguents wre

thems

selves

evidoned that these poopie Isntened te

taster stations.

WORRIE, KIeLE, 33 NOvember

"Colleague ulrich felts, Illembe from the

ahipyard, teshnical control. said: For I 14'8

Anoemprehensible that sonathing Iike this oan happen

In a country. It's my opinion that this can ondy

bo by sorees shich more against kennedy's govermental.

fort. Nerann Reel, & tider at the reene

Shipyard and member of the ODy (Christian Lamore i®

Un10nd.

1.

TOP SPORES DINAR

---

## Page 6

Doc Ref ID: A4274867

26 NOY 63

pointod out: "It's sorromul that suon things

as the assassination of the President dens in

the so-ealled country with the unlimited posse

b1116100.

"gho assassination ma alaquened right at the

start of vork-day with the coldengues ant comrades

from the trade organisecions of the Kroin Wolgaot

enterprises, and 1t rus generally stated that 1t'a

shocking thet in the US the Prosident was ansasol-

sated and a statemn le pushed aside In such 8

say. Colleague Regina Dahlke from the trade

organisation fotolaber Wolgast capacialLy expres

sed her extreme indignation over such & thing.

Comrade Bruno Yetrel Erem the Departmant of Labor

of the veh Hornbau Holga: in of the opinion that

Kennsdy had becone troublesome for aom people bo

sause ho had to advecate evan nose the pelley of

pandeful coerietone, due to pubile prassure, and

on the basis of the pease offennive of the Soviet

union. And this didn't agree with sam people.

• .

TOP SHORET DINAR

---

## Page 7

Döc Ref ID: A4274867

FOR SHORTE DEAR

26 Nov 63

That Kennedy took much a stand did not suit some

Might ving miliary circles In the usa, esprelally

mith regard to the cuba question. Nom 1t in t0

no feared that, with Johnson taking over as Pros

Ident of the United States. the world at large has

to nutter, In that Not Contat have ta be nade

again sotint the polley of peaceful goeristense

costinue.

---

