# 144-10001-10375_docid_6782991_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4269430

SECRET SPOKE

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10375

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

' TITLE

2/01

/R04-64 NEWS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION PASSED ON SOV [RI

PAGES : 00/00/64

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

X

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

_SECRET SPOKE

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

"Doc Ref ID: A4269430

ACCI453598

SECRET KIMBO

144 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

2/0,

R$4-64

GENERAL

1. Members of Unidentified Soviet Unit Receive New Regulations

A conversation of l4 November 1963 = held on an unidentified

relay training net (believed "to be

internal), Group of Soviet Forces Germany

(GSFG), between two unidentified speakers disclosed the following

the reception of new regulations:

Speakers (A) and (B) were engaged in a long conversation concerning

communications.

At the completion of this

routine communications

chatter,

Speaker (A) remarked that they would not be training until. one o'clock (a.m.

or p.m. not indicated)-the next day. He then told Speaker (B) that he had been

spending some time reading the new regulations [NOVYJ USTAV].

Speaker (B)

replied that he had seem them-the 1963 ones.

He added that he wanted to read

them through but hadn't [yet] been able to do so.

of the conversation,

parts of which were garbled, dealt with training courses, type not disclosed.

The new regulations referred to are probably the 1963 edition of

a Soviet publication which can'"best be described as a basic-field manual for

soldier.

This manual contains-instructions-pertaining"to the Soviet soldier's

conduct, manual of arms, squad, platoon, company and battalion, tactics, etc., as

found in separate U.S. manuals:

News of President Kennedy's Assassination Passed on Soviet

Facilities;

A conversation if 22 November 1963 2/ held between two unidentified speakers

revealed that the news of President Kennedy's assassination was being passed

Tradio relay line.

Speaker (A) asked if Speaker (B) had-heard about Kennedy. Speaker (B)

replied that they Hadn't heard anything on the [commercial] radio yet and were

waiting far the latest news.

"Speaker (A) -stated that in his opinion Kennedy

was already dead, having received a fatal"bullet wound.: Without further comment,

the speakers began talking about their commupications.

3.

Soviet TAF, Hast Germany, Regiment Direated to Begin Quarterly Review of

Permanent Party

on 30 November 1963 3/Tactical Air Forde (IAF) East Germany,

was reminded to begin the quarterly review of

permanent party., (OSNOVOJ SOSIAV) in accordance with the deadlines.

mast ge was seit by the the serial numberl

part at

In the l

→to his counter-

Twould be the department number, but no record of such a department could be found

in available files.

2/

3/

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act

1992

-SECRET KIMBO

---

