# 144-10001-10102_docid_6782055_sealed

## Page 1

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10102

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

3/0/W/T2020-63:

IT DISCUSSION OF KENNEDY'S DEATH AND ITS IMPACT ON US

DATE

PAGES

: 2

11/29/63

SUBJECTS

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVETY.

[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

: +

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING

AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTTVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP

A sands

UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

XXX*

TOP SECRET DINAR

******NO FORETON DISSEMINATION************#***#*

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

WS

375

*************

3/0/w/T2$28-63

29 Nov 63

DISCUSSION OF KENNEDY'S, DEATH AND ITS IMPACT ON US POLICY

25 Nov 63 193$

Urgent

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)0

Msg. Nr. 488

For

Our Nr. 486.2

The statement by the Texas state authorities that the slaying of

OSWALD closes the investigation of the KENNEDY assassination brought on public

reactions of doubt by some segments of the information media (commentators and

journalists) of the intentions of the Dallas police who conducted the investi-

This in turn facilitated the decision of the federal authorities to

step into the investigation immediately. R. KENNEDY's hand can also be seen

Therefore, a struggle between the right and groups close to KENNEDY

will continue over the political implications of the attempt. It must be

expected that in the near future'it will pass to more basic matters of foreign

and internal policies of the new president. Although the right was not success-

ful, so far, in obtaining a high degree of anti-comnunist tension in the

community, and force, in this way, JOHNSON to immediately withdraw from

KENNEDY's line, undoubtedly the reaction expanded its influences.

Its repre-

sentatives in Congress, HICKENLOOPER. for example, began an open attack against

KENNEDY's policy of seeking agreements with the Soviet Union, emphasizing with

this the hope that JOHNSON will not be such an "inexperienced" politician.

20

In the UN great importance is attached to JOHNSON's talks with

MIKOYAN, DE GAULLE and ERHARD (the level and number of the FRG delegation

attached special attention) The Western delegations of Europeans and Scandi-

navians, with whom we talked, avoided any speculation whatsoever as to the

result of. 'the talks.

3/0/w/T2$28-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

XXX

TOP SECRET DINAR

HEATINO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION********************

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

*жжж

3/0/W/T202D-63

Attention was directed to the fact that only Poland and the USSR

sent a high-level delegation (the remaining countries of the People's Democ-

racies sent the chiefs of the delegations of the UN Session) At the airport

in New York Ambassador YOST (one of the two deputies of STEVENSON, who went to

Washington alone) greeted them, thanking them officially for the trip. The

Press was very courteous.

2 o

See 3/0/w/T1945-63.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

MS --

CN

--

TI

2 -

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

