# 144-10001-10062_docid_6782016_sealed

## Page 1

MERA DATE: 03/26/9

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

NSA

144-10001-10062

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

T0 : HCO

-ER]

TITI

3/0/W/T1597-63:

_UNDECIDED ON SENDING DELEGATION TO KENNEDY FU

[R]

PAGES

AGES: 14/26/63

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

IR]

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

1B

.....

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

SENSTFIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TO

UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

****NO FOREIGN DISCEM**************

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

xX**

Reproduction of this document in whole or in part

is prohibited except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

WS 627

3/0/w/T1597-63

IS 26 NOv 63

Dist: HCO

UNDECIDED ON SENDING DELEGATION TO KENNEDY FUNERAL

23 Nov 63

Msg NI:

55067

Reference your NI. 25118( (A)):

Since the

I: Thas as yet no reliable

information on the procedure to be followed by the small European

countries, with the exception of the. Netherlands, it has not yet

been decided whether

will seria a government delegation.

Please let us know immediately' whether. your Embassy has acquired

any information about the intentions of. the Scandinavian countries,

Finland, and Switzerland.

According to Information here, sweden and

Norway intend only to appoint their'ambassadors to washingtion as

special ambassadors, but have not yet come, to any decision, since it

me have not ye a to a

is said that the Danish Prime Minister iptends to go to washington.

It is sald that the the swiss do not ever, intend to appoint their

Ambassador to Washington as special ambassador

The teleprinter is constantly busy.

( (A)) Not readable.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

MS

CN

--

TI --

:3/0/w/T1597-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

