# 144-10001-10291_docid_6782179_sealed

## Page 1

DATE: 10/08/9

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10291

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

NSA SIGINT COMMANE CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

PAGES: 11/23/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

•LASSIETCATTON: PAPER

8, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN

RESIRICTIONS :

1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

ORIGENATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

Robert E. Gould

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

FROM (hour)

ASSUMED OTE WATCH FROM

Mre Ve

Te Larson

TIME (L)

DATE

1545

AT

23 November 1963

0745

EVENT

0745

0755

0845

0900

0915

0930

0950

1000

1010

1011

1100

1110

1125

SFCNL

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2X(D(i))

Notified LCDR McGrath

of Telecón with Mueller. He will be out

about 0845.

Relessed 2/01

TR316 Unusual Activity on the sovietl

Colonel Walker (Phone 189-432) from ASA called in reference to

ADP 429. Says this message is in conflict with instructions

from General Bläke.

Got copy. of message from M63 and called

Bl to inform them of Walker's concern.

Mr Stewart not there,

but gave information to Itcol donovich, who is handling.

Msg in question instructs USM-84 to inform J2 US SOUTH COMD

that his intelligence requirements should be levied through

channels. Copy is in day file.

It Cmdr McGrath appeared. •Gave him copy of the Telecon and

referred him to Lt Col Odonovich, who is also interested in

the matter of supplying the Mueller with tapes.

WO reports that JRC informs" them of three Big Cigar msg.

13282 at #69; 1342Z at 183;- and 1335Z at #28. Had Captain

Blaker inform A615.

Mis Howell of Po53 picked up the message from CI/FID regarding

coverage on

link. This msg requires P052 action,

and she is contacting Mr Keniston in order to take appropriate

steps today.

Dr Shinn called in to check on reaction. Is going to Laurel

and will report in again shortly afternoon.

Ray Henderson A104 reported for watch.

WO reports that

Jline was restored at 220744Z.* Also

reports "BIG CIGAR NO PHONETICS 1453Z #53". This information

relayed to A615.

NIC Sit Check.

• Cox of CIA wants to know if Planes mentioned in J56

7R1-63

are Fishbed C or Fishbed D. I3 says they cun' tell So informed Cox.

Called LtCol. Odonovich to find out if all action had been taken

regarding the Mueller he assured me that everything had been

REV. BY

NSA FORM A 1847 REV JUL 63 (Supersedes A1847 REV NOV 59 which is obsolete)

CLASSIFICATION

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Robert E. Gould

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

FROM (hour)

(to)

0745

1545

ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM

Mr V. T. Larson

TIME (L)

1125

(con't)

1206

DATE

AT

23 November 1963

0745

EVENT

1219

1220

1400

1420

1430

1431

1455

1500

1501

1530

handled by Ltdr McGrath.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

Mr Stewart of Bl came in and reported that according to a junior

EM in B145, USA-66 reports over 800 Gov't cipher msgs transmitted

from Havana to Moscow viaL

Josincen 0000 22 November.

This in-

credible volume now being checked out by Contant of B145 for pur-

pose of issuing end product report if true.

Dr Shinn is at home and will be at home until Monday morning.

Released P055/255-63. Collateral information for USN-19 on

Brazil.

GOLD TREE down 1824Z. 75% cover.

Mr Embry of Sec Def Office says Monday is a nonworking day throughout

the world for all Govt Agencies - a day of mourning.

This was co-

ordinated with General Blaake, who says it is fine.

It Dancy has

contacted Col McCabe, Col Holbert, and Mr Rowlet.

Notified Dr Shinn at approx 1415 that USIB and the Watch were

meeting as usual. Also intormed farley. A and B desks have

informed the appropriate 5 offices who are responsible for

dragging in the people they need to support them.

Mr Stewart of Bl said that Bl will be operating on an augmented

Septimus plan Monday.

Ref item 1206: The actual number of messages transmitted was

four. Bl is notifying other recipients of the incorrect information.

Brennan of RCI wantes to know if there will be courier service

on Monday.

watch says yes, but this won't be firm for another

hour or two. When watch office does provide answer, please

relay to Brennan.

Rec'd GT prefigight 3780

Provided Mr Stewart with addresses and phone numbers of Zaslow,

Col Swears, and Jenks so that he could notify them of mourning

plan for Monday. (This note added 0755 23 November) .

RELIEVED

диту

REV. BY

пя

NSA FORM A 1847 REV JUL 63 (Supersedes A1847 REV NOV 59 which le obsolete)

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 4

(unclassified until filled)

Francis Smead

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

FROM (hour)

(to)

1600

2400

DATE

23 Nov 63

ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM

Mr. Gould

AT

1545

TIME (L)

EVENT

1545

SFCNL

1610

1700

1710

1750

1753

1800

1820

1905

1955

2010

2040

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

Col. Duvall, DIA called and wanted a complete run-down on SIGINT

reflections of assassination.

Brenan, STATE called and wanted to know if we had an official list

of the Representatives of other nations no are coming to Washington

for the funeral

services, advised him we did not.

He will send us

a list.

He wants us to be an the alert and report immediately on

any instructions re these representaiives particularily on geople they

vant to talk to in Washington.

Anything that is seen in

traffic.

Instructed B desk to notify people in Bl and B2.

Gen. Bläke is in his office, he has a meeting at 1715. Advised WO.

Gen. Blake has departed for home.

He left a package that he may

pick-up Monday, or he may call to have ADM Schulz.

Received BARKSDALE AFB LA DIG 231935Z. Golden Tree mission 3779

landed at 231824Z, 75 % coverage.

Major Nelson, DIA IL-18 Moscow to Washington, Plane # 75764 Due in

Washington 0710 londay. Aboard is Deputy Priminister Mickoyon?? and

7 Others.

Advised STATE.

Major Nelson, DIA Called to confirm the above sked. The flight is

designated Special #19.

Departs Moscow 2416252, via Breswick ETA

Breswick 242140Z, ETD 2423252; ETA GANDER 250615Z, ETD GANDER 250745Z;

ETA ANDREWS 1200Z (0700 Monday EST).

I'he Duty Officer on Monday 25 N v 63 for ADC is Mr Ayres. He will be on

duty in the ADC office. Phone: 2303(s), 6501 (led).

Edwards, DIA/CIIC called to report that he was sending an OI message

to us, this is a retransmission of a message they received from the UN

CMDR in korea.

It is reported that a coup is to take place in S. Korea

at 0100 (unknown if this i$ Zulu or Korean Local). Narine elements

involved.

Brown, CIA reports they have heard from their units in Korea who also

report a possible coup. They are checking this out and will call back.

Received calls from both CIA and DIA who stated that they did not

consider there was anything to the possible coup in S. Korea, that the

0100 time was Korean Local and that was nine hours ago.^ The U.s..

Military and CIA, Korea hate advised the Korean Military about the

reports they have on the coy!. Will call ft. Col. Lang and advise him

RELIEVED BY (aig)

DUT

OFFICER (sig

Snead

REV. BY

NSA FORM A 1847 REV JUL 63 (Supersedes A1847 REV NOV 59 which is obsolete)

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 5

(unclassified until filled)

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER - RECORD OF EVENTS

(10)

FROM (hour)

1600

ASSUMED THE WATCH FROM

Mr Gould

TIME (L)

2400

Francis Smead

DATE

23 Nov 63

AT 1545

2100

NOTE

2110

2130

DAY SNCO

EVENT

of this. Will take no further action bused on fact that both CIA AND DIA

state that there is nothing to the rumor.

Received call from Bradley, CIA regarding SHAMROCK. ADVISED BRADLEY

THAT I WAS NOT IN POSITION TO DISCUSS THIS MATTER WITH HIM, BUT I WOULD

CALL SOMEGNE IN WHO COULD. THERE IS NO LISTING OF SHAMROCK ANTWERE,

FINALLY GOT HOLD OF LF. COL. ODONOVISH IN B1 HE ADVISED TO CALL JEEN

STOCKTON, NO ANSWER FROMSTOCKTON. CALLED AL CONTONT WHO WILL BE IN.

BRADLEY SAID TO CALL AND TALK TO MR SLOSS, CIA WATCH OFFICER 1-8565.

IF A MATTER COMES UP THAT REQUIRES C GROUP ASSISTANCE AND BEARD CANNOT

BE REACHED, CALL MR. KELLER.

Message from STATE with list of the DIGNITARIES TO VISIT WASHINGION

FOR JEK FUNERAL IS COMING IN ON THE PRINTER NOW.

RECEIVED CSAF WABH DC DTG 240106. Report of ALLEGED COUP PLOT AGAINST

ROK GOVERNMENT. SEE ITEM 2040 ABOVE.

CALL JOHN STOCKTON, B1 TUMORROW MORNING AT 0800 TO COME IN AND TAKE

A LOOK A MESSAGE FROM CIA THAT IS ON THE SNGO DESK.

!

(aig)

Plaus heel

REV. BY

NSA FORM A 1847 REV JUL 63 (Supersedos A1847 REV NOV 59 which lo obsoleto)

CLASSIFICATION

---

