# 144-10001-10096_docid_6780912_sealed

## Page 1

SECReT MORAy

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

JATE: 03/26/9/

PAGE: 1

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10096

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

TRI

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63:

6-73: CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

DATE : 11/29/6.

AGES

2

SUBJECTS.

CURAL REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

TRIP TO MEXICO

CUBA, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT

1B

STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/10/93

PENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released on 08-05-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SECRET MORAY

---

## Page 2

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/12456-63

IS 29 Nov 2223Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

SECRET

0/27282-63

CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AND CUBAN

ECONOMY

FR Havana:

Foreign Ministry

Cuban Embassy ((A))

Msg NI: 7555

28 Nov 63

--

FIDEL stated,

"Events are demonstrating the sinister plot

behind the assassination of KENNEDY. Contradictions show that

OsWAlD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to

commit the act with-promise of escape, and was assigned activities

so as to have responsibility fall on or be insinuated against

those whom the perpetrators wished. It is clear that United

States reactionaries tried to make Cuba and the world the victims

of their criminal designss.

even at the price of assasinating

their own president.

They sent OSWALD to Mexico to request

a transit visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine

the president's assasin just leturning from the USSR and

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

PAGE 1 of 3_ PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

...

MS 19

Cuban

CN

CUDY

TI 29 Nov 63

WS 17312

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63

0/27282-63

1

of 3

PAGE

SECRET SABRE

Released on 08-05-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

PAGE(s)

---

## Page 3

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63

SECRET

0/27282-63

passing through Cuba.

The visa to the USSR he could have

requested from the nearest European country and not have to come

to Cuba to later go to the USSR, which is much farther."

He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass

10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins

to improve solidly. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos

for 1965 and 1966. There shortly will be a notable increase in

meats and other articles.

At the year's end, nougats, wine

and grapes will reappear

as the result of the development of

foreign trade.

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUIOMATIC I SECRET

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

of_ 3

_PAGE(s)

PAGE 2 Of 3 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

---

