# 144-10001-10264_docid_6783163_sealed

## Page 1

•Đóc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID

CRET

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 01/26/90

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10264

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

NSA

TITLE

ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSA TO LOCATE JFK ASSASSINATION INFORMATION

ATE

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC MESSAGES®

[R]

CIACSMFYCATION CABLES (USE FOR CABLES, TELEGRAMS, WIRES, AIRGRAMS)

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE CURRAST REVIES: 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

OP SECRET

NSAICSSM 123-2,

Datéd 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR".

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

---

## Page 2

: Doc ID: 6783163: •

426p0

GRE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

15 June 1978

SUBJECT: Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related

to the Assassination of President Kennedy

A. Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSA has

performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of materials in

its files

in an attempt to isolate data that might be relevant

to the assassination of President Kennedy. Nothing of significance

has been determined as a result of those reviews.

1. November-December 1963 - Immediately after the

assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scale manual and machine

review of available SIGINt, including all U.S./ Cuba traffic (NSA

intercepted messages at an average of 1,000 per day at that time.

1 computer search was initiated using Oswald's name as the minimun

for research criteria. Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/New

Orleans and Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed (an analyst involved

recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,

along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic). Sometime

during the search, items from the Oswald address book

provided by

the FBI were added to the search criteria.

2.

1964 - Warren Commission - The Commission, in the

person of Allan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any

secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the

documents.

It also appears that NSA searched records

for information

on the basis of other Warren Commission requests made informally

by Allen Dulles.

3. November 1975 - Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) :

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,

reviewed its Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military.

The search was also for material involving Marina Oswald, Jack Rüby

or Earl Ruby (a Harvest run was made) •

traffic was also

reviewed, looking for information concerning Oswald's visit to

Mexico.

June 19/6 - Pursuant to FOlA requests asking Ior

material relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6783163: •

of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.

Strongbox searches were made on the following:

Lee Harvey Oswald

1966 - 1976

Assassination of

President Kennedy

Earl Ruby

Cobo Cleaners

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1977

1966 - 1977

5.

December 1976 - Senate Select Committee on Intelli-

gence (SSCI) - Requested all the material we had available on the

Cuban agent problem.

It consisted of 485 reports for the period

1961 - 1965. All of these reports were received by Committee

Staff Members.

6.

March 1978 - House Select Committee on Assassinations -

Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materials

relating to the Assassination.

All Cuban agent material (1961 - 1964)

was reviewed, as was material that had been previously compiled to

respond to the SSCI and SSC requests.

As a result of the reviews described above, the following

materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were

located (referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs) :

1. Four Cuban diplomatic messages which contained

official Cuban comments regarding press items that discussed Oswald's

activity in late September 1963 to obtain a visa to travel to

MOSCOW •

There were also comments on the assassination itself.

The messages are dated in the last week of November 1963.

2. Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban

military forces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.

3.

One 1962 Cuban Intelligence message concerning the

assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto

Rico) SERAFIN.

4. One 1966 Cuban Diplomatic message concerning a Spanish

diplomat in Cuba. It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate

an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul Castro Ruz, possibly

linking it to the CIA.

5. Information in an FBI document relating to I

as gupt caser lo became somes document

• was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation

• to the assassination.

6. One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim

Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and

David W. Ferrie.

TOP SECRET

44 USC 2107(5) (9) (2) (D) (i)

2

HANDLE VIA CONHIT CHANNELS ONLY

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6783163

• JOR SECRET

c.

Based on these extensive reviews and the paucity of

material derived, it is possible to state that: "A thorough

review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or

suggesting. Cuban involvement in the assassination of President

Kennedy. "

Eugeiet. Yeate

EUGENE F. YEATES

Chief

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

-HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

3

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6783163

WTOE SECRET

It seems to me that this summary should now be used as the basis for advising

Mr. Blakey that we have reviewed all our holdings and have found nothing

directly (or even indirectly) relevant to his investigation.

Sene

EUGENE F. YEATES

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

-HANDLE VIA CORINT CHANNELS ONLY

2

---

## Page 6

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

Cuban

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUDY

•WS 17277

3/0/CUD/T2394-63

IS 26 Now 20152 P:

Dist: HCF

ST 300

CUBAN STATEMENT ON VISA FOR OSWALD

FR Havana:

TO

New York:

Msg. Nr:

7469

RAUL. ROA

Cubari Mission to the UN

25 Nov 63

I

am reproducing below the note given to the press by the

Ministry:

With relation to the informat on published today in the

newspaper Excalsion in Mexico City;

affining that LeF HARVeY:

OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel to the Soviet

Union at the Cuban Consulate ir. Mexico In September, the Cabar

Government requested information from the officials of our

Consulate in that city confirming that it is certain that

MK:. LEE HARVEY OSWALD requested the transit visa for travel to

the Soviet Union on 27 September in the said Consulate.

Or being informed by

• ?.

the consular officials that their

office could not grant. such a visa without the authorization.

of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations, which Likewise

would not grant it if it was not previously

authorized by the

country of destination, Mr. OSWALD left the Consulate visiöly

disgusted.

The said visa was never granted.

This detail, in connection with the other crcumstance i

that surround the facts, confirm our suspicion that the

assaegination of KENNEDY was a provocation against world peace,.

of the United"States:

perfectly and thoroughly planned by the most reartionary segEorg

Cuban

3/ố/cm/r13R4563

THES DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PACE(S)

---

## Page 7

Sc ID: 6:

3163

TOP SECRET DINAR

Cuban

3/0/cUD/Tt384-63/

It is evident that these sectors planned beforehand co

involve Cuba and the Soviet Union in these deeds:

The inconceivable and irexplicable impunity with which an

individual of known penal antecodents assassinated OSWALD, the:

principal accused of the assassination of President KENNEDY, 1o

the presence of the police themselves and in the (5G) of a

prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and indisputable manner:

chat the powerful reactionary politienl forces within the

United States are making use of all cheir resources

and influences

• In order to conceal those who master-minded KENNEDY's assassination,

and the true motives for it.

World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.

It is absurd that the political authorities and the prosecuting.

attorney of Dallas have declared that the case is closed

hardly 48 hours have passed since a deed of so great a result as

the assassination of the President of the United States.

Regards.

MS

wIn

CN

II -"

TOP SECRET D

INAN

X7H1

---

## Page 8

Đọc: ID: 6783163

Doc-Ref-ID: A4268657

SECREF SABRE

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

28/0/CUD/T2456-65

IS 29 Nov: 2223Z 2

Dist:

"CE

ST 300

0/27282-63

CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASJASSINATION AND CUBAN

ECONOMY

FR Havaria: "Foreign Ministry,

Kuban Embassy ((A);

Msg. Nr:: 7555.

28 Nov 63

FIDEL stated, "Events are demonstrating the sinister piot

behind the assassination of KENEDY.

Contradictions show that

OSWALD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to

cormit the act with promise of escape, and was assigned activities

so as to have responsiblity fail on or be insinuated against

those whom the perpetrators wished. It is clear that United

States reactionaries tried to make Cuba and the world the victims

of their criminal designs, even it the price of assasinating

their own president. They sent OSWALD to Mexico to request

a transit visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine

the president's assasin just retuming from the USSR and

GROUP 1

PAGE 1 0 3 PACE(S)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFICATION

*HE MS 19

Cuban

CN

CUDY

TI, 29. Nov 63

WS 17312:

2x/0/CUD/72456-63

0/27282-63

. 0f 3

PACECeS

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 9

- Doc ID: 6783163

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63

0, 27232-63

passing through Cuba.

The visa to the USSR he could have

requested from the ncarest El ropean country ind net have to come

to Cuba to later go to the USüR, which is much farther.

=:"

He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass

10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins.

to improve solidly.. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos.

oỵ 1965 and 1966. There shortly will be a noible increase in

neats and other articles. At the year's end, nougats, wine

and grapes will reappear as the result of the development of

foreign trade.

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC TSE

DORNGRADING AND. DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE_ 2

PAGE 2 0 3 PAGE(8)

RET SABRE

---

## Page 10

ốc Ret ID: A 42681

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63

0/27282-63

((A)) This 1s a circular message sent also to Cubar Diplomatic.

Missions

44 USC 2107 (5) (g) (2) (D) (i)

GROUP: 1

EXCLUDED FROM. AUTOMATIC

VLENEE

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE_3 0f 3: PAGE(G)

of.

3: PAGE(O)

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 11

Doc ID: 6783163

Dơc Ref ID: A4268657

SECRET SABRE

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

2X/0,/CUD/T2545-63

IS

14 Dec 6.3

P

Dist: HCO

ST

300

0/27786-63

GHANAIAN. PRESS EMPHASIZING CUBAN COMMENTARIES ON DEATH OF PRESIDENTIAL

ASSASSIN-

30 Nov 63

Havara:: Foreign Ministry

The Ghanaian press emphasized in the headlines of the first:

cuba concerning the dene of entates of the prime inister of

GROUP

*EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING. AND DECLASSIFICATION.

CAN DIET

PAGE

_PAGE(3)

CN

MS

*Cuban

•CUDY

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

WS -17344

TI.

2x/0/CUD/72545-63

0/27730-63

SECR

• SABRE

---

## Page 12

Gọc 1D 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

23 00

SECRET SABRE

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

2X/O/CUD/T2440-63

IS 28 Nov 1949: P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

9121247-63

MINREX, HAVANA VERTETE? USWALD': REQUEST FOR ERINSTY VISA FOR RUSALA

FR Havana: MINREX

TO Circular (Warsaw; Cuban Embassyl ((x))

7S8 Nx: 7482

25 Nov 63

MINREX reported yesterday that the information in the newspaper

Excelcior of Mexico Cily concerning LEE OSWALD's reques: for a ecansit

visa to go to the USSR, which was tequested from the Cuban Consulate

in Merida, is true. •This visa was -requested 27 September from said

consulate, which staled that it could not grant the visa without

permission of MINREX; and unless permission had been gronted pre

viously by the country of destination. OswALD gave up aunpying the

consulate, and the visa was never granted,

This detail, and others, confirm the suspicion that the KENNEDY

assassination was a provocation against world peace by the nost re

actionary sectors. It is evident that these sectors planned

GROUP 1

233. 72

PAGE _M

of

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SEL

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

Pis

19

Cuban

CN

CUDY

Ti 2? Nov 63

ws

17303

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

0/27247-63

SECR

LI SABRE

---

## Page 13

Đọc TD: 6783163

Doc Ref IĐ: A4268657

SECR

SABRE

2X/0/CUD/T2440-63

0/27247-63

beforehand to involve Cuba and the USSR in the acts. The inconceiv

able impunity of a person who, with a known police record could

wurder OSWALD in the

presence of the police in a prison basement,

demonstrates the scandalous means which reactionary forces äre

using in the United States to cover Up the perpetrators and the

motives for KENNEDY's assassination. World-wide public opinion

demands a clarificarion of the facts. le is ai

urd that the Dallas

District Attorney is closing the case of the deach of the President

scarcely 48 hours after the deed.

((A)) Same text sent to Cuban Embassles

SImilar Lext sent to Cuban Enbassy

44 USC 2107(5) (9) (2) (D) (i)

GROUP 1

FEEDIC TEE

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOMSRARNCS ARE DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE L

of

_PAGE(R)

PAGE 2

_ PAGE(z)

SECREI

F. SABRE

---

## Page 14

Doc ID: 678316

Dog Ret 1D: 44268657

UT

SEORET K

IMBO

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

"2/0,

1p58-63

26 Nọv

63 2019Z

DIST: 0/WA

ST 250

ALERT IN GRIENTE PROUTICE BELIEVED-TO BE TERHINATED

The alert; in Oriente Province (see, 2/0

/R196-63) 1s be-

The alert, apparently prospied by

Preved to laterals death on on core apa, is possibly pre-

it deled to eat the one day de net co de concluded on

"There have been two ordars

25 lovester; they are:

1. 1) Access: to Ene-Coastal Observation Post at Punta

Kaisi (20-15K

74-0977)

restricted intil 25 Aqueabar because

of the alert (see 2/Q5

(8667-53); ani?

2) •Suboidinates of Banes, Readquarters Restem Naval

District, reje to recelve further orders on the 25ch, presumably.

conceming their alert status (210.

n196-53); n0 such orders

hare been nozed in connications.

There harz been no funther references In Intercepted comni™

cations. to the alert since D2227 on 23 Bovender (2/Q5/

R667-63) •

It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation

Fost at Pula falsi extends to other Observation Posts In Oriente

Province such as reported on 23 lovesher when Flist Argy Coastal

Observation Posts sore placed In an alert status

[2/21 R139-53), aud t's the restriction was to be lifted on

25 loveaber by all those popes.

Further Indication that the alert has tersinated 1s the fact

inal the cuion sary was engaged inian islard-vide communications

It is considered unlikely that sch an

exercise

mala be cunducted inier alert corditions.

There haun bean no futtier teferencos to the alert status

of the (D percent santiago ia Cuba) units which was flast ub-

SOrIS on 23 Coucaber (2/31 7805-63). 112 CRAF and Sovlet

Forces Cuba concunicialons appen to be nerodi during this

pe-lar, 22-26 lovealer 1963.

---

## Page 15

Đoc t: 6783163,

Doc Refip, A4268

STORET

14 USC 2107(5)(g)(2YD)0)

2/0l B10506

3 How 63:1815

3157: 0/181

ST 250202

ALERTE. Di RASTODA RAVAL DISTRICE KETANED, KEZANED, MOUSEFE

as out one cent toms ere end Bate

havaz mocracerce ca is aloend dy co alorciet

204425c

32 Bovesser tre

3ữa 55

AS 22377o8, 23, roverbero too alert may celesed a cartain

degree by Basess

a, subortists

notzrolens vero passed, to, santiago de coon.

for the poed oura and shatt

to glue Leave co 25, percent of chaiz passenel

ca: 25. Hopeles eaen:29 €3:

Furthes orders sula do orchconne

3:449M

(RA)D: (2/257

Me note thas succe

1990275:25 sores

edicates Farsia p

525 0000 1222-00 80i

lesbtory enterest

201-334

F55 Qbs6, 3607-3)

---

## Page 16

I6.

375÷63

0÷ 2.

230763)

T USS

70E

MAR CASE DE

159,

1455-53) 8

Te canni sd33

7072

Mistian

132%

19-403

salon mas

105a" xTb2te couscas

sara tat daria la d1ss

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)0)

---

## Page 17

ni Đoc IĐ: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

TOP SECRET DISAR

Cuban

IOS ONLY

TO BE GIVEN TRIC (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

WS 35

3/0/TRIG- /I23-62

IS

29 Nov 62 ₽

28 .NOV. 62

- —

FR

[U]

TO

(Puerto Rico]:

Msg NI: [M]

[XM] cautiousness and equanimity which you possess.

The

¿finery plan ll wa G] ((A)) be-carried out after completing the

recruiting task and when

the conditions exist.

MS 84

TI 28 NOV 62

ER --

TO -

CN

3/0/TRIG- 1723-62

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

MATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

TOY SECRET

BUREAU SOURCE

- Cuten

INDEXED

1 84-320 -=.-1

NOT RECESTO

ZXR 20 1933

---

## Page 18

Doc ID: 6783163

• 1, 17,

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

SECRET DINAR

cuban

3/0/ TRIG

T23-62

The plan for the execution Of VECIANA((B)) and ESTEVEZ ( (C))

Is less Important than the other. What information lao you have

about) plan PO ALPHA?

Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of

action against VECIANA.

Liseen tomorion to the transmissions about the concrete

objcctives. End of message.

YMIKE

18 November (XG]

((a)) C percent can.

((3)) ANTONIORICIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman fOr ALPHA 66.

((C)) PrObAbLY GERONIMQ ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in Puerto Rico and

a member: of the coördinating committee of Cuban democratic

organizations in exile.

-2-

IONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FOP SI

INDEXED

184-330-210--91-1

NOT FECORDED

LAR 26

13G3

---

## Page 19

Doc ID: 6783163

SE4ES932E

108Sa1as7b

ODoc Racit NiEGSat

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

30 • December 1976

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Vecjana

In response to the inclosed 20 December request'.from

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date

I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG[ VT23-62

dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard

Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and

a reference to "Serafin."

They indicated that the Committee

would request a review of all Cuban material for the period

1961-1965.

JOHN C. WOBENSMITH

Legislative Affairs

LAO

3 Incls:

1.

SSCI ltr dtd 20 Dec 76

2.

Product

3.

Backup

: :.

es odst"

maaa Cof ty Doa- 49500 (0/09/00209 225-6)

ENeri fronCW11119933.010--11

Boslosoidy Coon Fracuares dy Coo Oagrador

ads te

586:99323

369317792

•1:,97-29

Machanis

undt teee

-.-a.aid Biva9

SeI,

---

## Page 20

• Doc iD: 6783163

SECRUI

•Doc Ref ID: A4268657•

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

IS 03 Jun 1955Z P

Dist: HCF

< 0/15748-66

SPANISH COUNSELOR: IN HAVANA DECLARED PERSONA NON GRATA

FR Havana: ROA

28 May 66

Urgent

Msg No: 2301

2, 3. 401,1

I am transcribing below, for your information and for

appropriate purposes, the text of the note delivered this morning,

Saturday, to the Spainish Embassy in Cuba.

"Havana, 28 May 1966

"Charge d'Affaires:

"I have the honor of addressing you on a matter which the

Government of Cuba considers of the utmost importance and gravity,

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

1 12 PAGE(s)

BUREAU SOURCE 6: Pula

1 64-330-210-4-6652

Ja 1 4 193G

NOT RECORDED

MS

Cuban

CN•

CUDY

TI

na as

WS 42637

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

INDEXED

PAGE MOM 1

SECRET LARUM !

_°€ 12 PAGE(S)

---

## Page 21

Doc ID: 6783163

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

SECRETA

- 0/15748-66

since it deals with crimes that have been committed and activities

that have been carried out against the integrity and stability

of the state by Mr. JAIME CALDEVILLA Y GARCIA VILLAR, Press

Counselor of the Spanish: Embassy, who intolerably abused

the

diplomatic immunity and privileges granted him and used them

for purposes, like those cited, that are very different from the

functions assigned to him.

"With the purpose of documenting what has already been

indicated, I take the liberty of informing you below in detail, of

the charges which have been brought against Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,

proved in an authentic and irrefutable manner, and which compel

us to formally and expressly request his immediate departure from

the country persona non grata.

"The main activites of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA are

directed toward the search, by illicit means, for information of a

PAGE

12

Can E

PAGE(s)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFTCALION

PAGE

SECRET LARUM

of: 12

PAGE(s)

---

## Page 22

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657°

SECRET LADIE

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

WEEDET

DISENSE

0/15748-66

military, economic and political nature, the fulfillment of tasks

of ideological diversionism and the recruitment of agents and

counterrevolutionaries for the Central Intelligence Agency, tasks

in which he has availed himself of the very close collaboration of

his secretary, Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ (A) ) .

"Since February 1959, Counselor CALDEVILLA has undertaken the

Job oI recruiting members of the then Rebel Army, among them the

traitor ALDO VERA((A)), MARIO MARRERO((A)), and AGUSTIN PARRADA( (A) ) .

The latter, once his activities were discovered, found it propitious

to flee the country to avoid prosecution.

"Along this same line, he also used the aforementioned Miss

CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, instructing her to infiltrate student

organizations for the purpose of creating diversionism in the

ideological order, and she established, for this purpose, intimate

relations with Mr. PEDRO LUIS BOTTELL (A)); ex-President of the

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE-

of

DE

FLESHLI

4 150

PAGE 3

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 23

• Doc ID: 6783163

SECREA

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

DEBT

0/15748-66

University of Havana School of Engineering. When the latter was

arrested and sentenced to imprisonment on the Isle of Pines,

Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ went there and carried out military and political

espionage activities. The data and information that she obtained

on that occasion were transmitted to Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,

and included microfilms.

"In February 1960 Counselo: CALDEVILLA conceived a plan for

an attempt against the life of the then First Deputy Chairman of

the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. ANASTAS MIKOYAN,.

a guest in Cuba, for which purpose he delivered arms to a group

of counterrevolutionarly elements.

It was not executed, according

to what Counselor CALDEVILLA himself claims, because of the

cowardice of the assassins, He also sought refuge and protection in

the home of his collaborator JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ((A)), FOI MI. ISRAEL

ZAMORA PEREZ ((A)), a fugitive from Cuban authorities for plotting

an attempt against the life of the Vice Prime Minister and Minister

of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, Conmander RAUL CASTRO RUZ,

PAGE

4 face 120n

_ PAGEIS)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

-DONGRADING AND DECLASSTEICATION

PAGE 4 0_ 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 24

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

DIL

0/15748-66

as well as a plan to create an incident at the United States Naval

Base at Guantanamo. Later, Counselor CALDEVILLA arranged for the

mentioned ISRAEL ZAMORA PEREZ to take asylum in the Colombian

Embassy in Havana.

"In May 1962 he instructed his agents CARMEN JIMENEZ CARCIA

and ALFREDO SERRÁ ECHEVARRIA((A)), an accountant at the Embassy,

as

well as other individuals, to intiltrate difterent organizations

and offices of the Cuban State. The former went to work in the

offices of the National College of Architects, where she established

contacts with numerous professionals. to induce them to desert, as

well as to obtain data and intormation from the Congress of the

International Union of Architects, where she worked as a simultaneous

interpreter.

"The latter worked at the National Institute of Agrarian Reform

where, if a break in diplomatic relations between Spain and Cuba

occurred, he would be in charge of obtaining confidential information

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

EDICTS

PAGE 5 0% 12 PACE(S)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 5 _ 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET

LARUM

---

## Page 25

Doc ID: 6783163

SECRET

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66

to supply to the enemy. In July and October of 1962 he distributed

corespondence with instructions, received by diplomatic pouch,

for the counterrevolutionary organization, the Revolutionary

Student Directorate with which he maintained close relations

through BLANCA MARTINEZ DEL FOYO((A)), JORCE MEDINA BRINGUIER ( (A)),

and LUIS FERNANDEZ ROCHA( (A)).

The first two were national coordinators

for civic resistance and strengthening of the Revolutionary Student

Directorate, and the latter, a CIA agent.

"It has also been proved that Counselor CALDEVILLA's wife,

at his suggestion, has maintained relations with relatives of

political prisoners and counterrevolutionaries, inciting them to

send letters of protest to foreign embassies and international

organizations.

"On the occasion of the arrest of counterrevolutionary GENARO

FERNANDEZ. FOLGUEIRAS, national leader of the counterrevolutionary

organization, the National Union of Revolutionary Institutions, he

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DEL

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 6 0 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 26

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/ T1663-66

SDET

0/15748-66

stated and offered evidence that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA was

to recruit him and give him training in arms and explosives, even

within the Spanish Embassy, and instruct him in organizing an

espionage network for the illicit procurement of military, economic

and political information and in penetrating the Cuban-Spanish

Friendship Society, whose building he was to occupy in the event

the United States Government launched an armed aggression against

Cuba. He was to be given arms and equipment at the opportune

moment. In like manner FOLGUEIRAS was instructed by the forner

to distribute arms and relay guidance to counterrevolutionary

groups in the event of this aggression. The espionage ring organized

by the aforementioned is made up of eight persons who receive for said

task the amount of 250.00 US dollars monthly and the promise of

a deposit of 500,00 US dollars' in an accoutt in their names in a

Miami bank.

"Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, for her part, was entrusted by

Counselor CALDEVILIA with the mission of directing an extensive

PAGE 7 12

- PAGE(S)

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DANCETOAD DECISIONS

PAGE 7 ' 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 27

Doc ID: 6783163

SECRET

. Doc Ref ID: A4268657°

LABITI

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66

espionage network in various State organizations, such as the

Ministries of the Sugar Industry, Industries, Foreign Trade and

Education, and the National Bank of Cuba. Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ,

on one occasion, supplied him with a directive of the nickel industry

as well as a plan and a report with specifications on the type of

arms, location, and personnel of the military installations of Managua

and Matanzas which were delivered by LUIS ANTONIO COLLAZO DENNISN((A)),

who is a deserter from the Armed Forces.

"In April 1963,

when the Achives was pentrated by CIA agent

RAMON GRAU ALSIN((A)) who directed an espionage ring, a note was

found which confirmed that a certain message had been deliverer to

Counselor CALDEVILLA. In June of the same year, photostatic copies

of the motions of the Student Congress on the Struggle of Peoples

Against Colonialism were delivered to him by CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ.

"During the celebration in Havana of the First Solidarity

Conference of the Peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America,

GROUP 1

MIDTET

PAGE 8.

- 1200 PAGE(s)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 8 0 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 28

*Doc ID: 6783163

DICKLIL

Doc Ref ID: A4268657•

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66

Counselor CALDEVILLA attempted to obtain the names and activities

of the delegates, guests, and journalists attending, as well as

reports on its development and agreements.

"In february 1966, he gave refuge in his residency to counter-.

revolutionary fugitive ALDO ABREU BACALIAO((A)), a convicted saboteur.

"The Cuban authorities have also learned through the statements

of several arrested persons, that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA uses the

pouches and enciphered Embassy cables to receive and transmit

instructions, reports, requests for information, and correspondence

related to illicit activities and is personally in charge of

deciphering messages in an office on the second floor of the chancery,

next to the office of his Secretary, and is also in charge of

reviewing and approving all of the material obtained in the country

by his numerous agents and contacts before sending it abroad.

PAGE

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SECRETI

12

1 PAGE(S)

PAGE

SECRET LARUM

20f 12 PAGE(s)

---

## Page 29

• Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/ CUD/ T1663-66

0/15748-66

"We were also able to prove the connection between Counselor

JAIME CALDEVILIA and the ex-official of the Spanish Embassy

_ALEJANDRO VERGARA ((A)), whose departure from the (5G] it was also

necessary to request, as well as the participation of both in

crimes against the integrity of the State and the illegal removal

of foreign currency and jewels from the country. Both kept as

refugees in the Spanish headquarters two telegraph operators in

charge of intercepting transmitted radio telegraph communications

by means of radio sets. They also reczuited a telegraph operatoi

from the Ministry of Communications who was in charge of the

espionage work of that organization. At that time Counsellor

JAIME CALDEVILLA was personally concerned with verifying the reports

supplied by these two individuals, with the aid of an employee of

the Embassy, ADELA RODIL RODRIGUEZ ((A)), and CARMEN JIMENEZ GO:EZ.

He give direct orders to the latter.

"Both VERGARA and Counselor CALDEVILLA have known of the plans

for sabotage and assassinations, including those against the Prime

GROUP 1

01 727

PAGE 10°Fnt2

PACE(s)

DET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

ROWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 10 0 12 PAGES)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 30

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2X/0/CUD/T1663-66

0/15748-66

Minister of the Revolutionary Government, Major FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.

Both were exposed by leaders of counterrevolutionary organizations,

having offered, on one occasion, to supply to one group rifles

with telescopic sights. The authorities have proof that one or

the other maintains relations with the well-known counterrevolutionary

leader MANUEL ARTIME, whom Mr. VERGARA visited in Miami sonetime

before the mercenary invasion was crushed at Playa Giron, in

April 1961, with the knowledge of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA.

"It has been known that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA has been

dedicated, furthermore, for some time, to the illegal removal from

the country through the diplomatic pouches of the Spanish Embassy

of jewels and foreign currency delivered to him by different persons,

on a basis of 20 percent of its value. In this way, the removal

from the country of the possessions of ALVARO GONZALEZ GORDON((A))

and his wife MARIA TERESA VELASCO SARRA ((A)) was facilitated.

PAGE...

11

of

1.2

PAGEls)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

YSECDET

PAGE 11 ° 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 31

:: Doc'ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

2x/0/CUD/T1663-66

L CP DA EN

0/15748-66

"You will agree with me on the importance of this matter, both

painful and regrettable, since it is the question of an official

of the diplomatic representation of a country with which Cuba

- •

maintains normal relations.. We trust that your understanding and

• collaboration will help conclude this affair as soon as possible.

We also trust that the Spanish Government will adopt pertinent.

measures to prevent acts of this nature from recurring.

-..

.'"I take advantage of this opportunity, Mr.. Charge d'Affaires,

to reiterate to you the testimony of my highest considerations."

((A)) Personal names not verified, as in text.

PAGE 12

of

12 PAGE(S)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

DRIV

PAGE 12 _ 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 32

- D ID: 6783163

DOE:

FBI

Ragnaste

SAVEDERN

for

TOMASE

Pare d

Doc F

---

## Page 33

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

0/0763

(Type in plair test or code)

(Priority or Methou of Mailing)

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

. TO

DIRECTOR, MBI (102-1090531

WASHINETON FIELD (105-47047)

• FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-60440)

SUBJECT:

IS - FRANCE

DONE

JApRAW Sol Re Bureau airtels, 6/12/53 and 6/13/63-

Relative to Bureau airtel of 6/12/63, the

Bureau's attention is directed to

The Bureau's attention is directed

to their file 105-120510,n

"LAURENCE MASON

MALDERSON; IS-PRANCE,

For the informacion of the Wro, by lebber

dated 4/8/63, MY file 134-35,

a request by jacouns heavs on

4/3/63, asked infomation about the ALDERSOns or 3803 tuttingra

Housion, Texas:

His Paris Office had advised that a Captain

soustRe, a fugitive of the Cas; had recelved a letter from

ine AIDERSONs wisning him wei

This letter signed

TARREY

was

received in December, 1962

NO LEI.

By letter dated 5/3/63, Houston forwarded

background information concerning

this fanily.

By lepter

dated 5/21/63, the Bureau advised

what information fron the

Houston letter could be furnished to HERVE. This information

WaS

given to HERVE on 5/28/63.

Bureau (105-109053)

-

Washington Field (105-47647)

I - New York (205-60440)

105 224652-222

LHB: lac

(7)

6 :1 20 1059

NO: 800.

Approved:

Sent

_M • Per

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 34

IDaID: 6783163

Doc E

and by FRI

purses. to

FAIR

refuses

denied fo

+643552684349

15028998

---

## Page 35

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc RoAD: 44368657

JUNT ECRET TRINE

WS 3289

Cuban

3/0/CUD/T167-67

IS 24 Feb 1936Z P

Dist: HCF

CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFORMATION ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

FIGURE

FR

Havana: MARIO MADRAZO, Latin

American Editorial Staff

22 Feb 67

Urgent

Msg Nº: 1

[OUI-OF -SERVICE MESSAGE]

Lawr

Please send'us" information on the death of DAVID b

FERRIE, cited as an important figure in District Attorney

JIM GARRISON's investigation of the KENNEDY assassination.

We want to know, if possible, what factors linked

FERRIE to the case, as-well as the details of his death, Was

it suicide or murder?:

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

164-330-210-4941

NOT RECORDED

MAR 3 0 057

0

BUREAU SOURCE - Cuha

MS

00 t

CN --

TI =

INDEXED

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS I PAGE(s)

TOP SECRET TRINE

#978

---

## Page 36

Doc ID: 6783163

Doc Ref ID: A4268657

... EVEN I RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

6 BLEECKER STREET . NEW YORK CITY 10012 - PHONE: AJ WEBERMAN (212) 477-6243

FOI/PA

J. Edgar Hoover Building

Washington, D.C. 20535

1. Under the provisions of the FOIA I would like to request all files,

reports and related reports in which his name comes up on

DAVID WILLIAM

FERRIE

MI. Ferrie was arrested in New Orleans on 2/16/62 and was assigned #107062.

His name was mentioned repeatedly in regard to the Garrison investigation

of the JFK murder/conspiracy which took place in New Orleans. I have enclosed

a copy of a document your office sent me under FOIA which states that Ferrie

is dead.

2. Enclosed please find letter dated 14 Oct 77 from James M. Powers. I

would like to obtain all the additional material. I will pick this

material up in person when I visit the FBI FOI/PA Reading room on

November 9, 1977 if that is alright.

signed

in Of Wa

31958

---

