Date: 93/26/97
Pace: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10075
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA

HCF RT
TITLE
3/0/[__]11259-63: [____|LEGATION REPORTS REACTION TO KENNED [RI
"+s DATE : 12/14/63 -. .
PAGES
SUBJECTS : Beet whe, a
IBLOMASIC ACTIVITY tea Tee on [R]
DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY Slee ee [RI]

DOCUMENT “TYPE
LASSIFICATION : 4— i

RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93
CRITERIA :

OPENING
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS :

nation Records Ac



WS 10263 a/of}r1259-63
’ ; 18-14 Dec 20372 P

Dist: HCF
ST 300
LEGATION “REPORTS REACTION TO KENNEDY'S
ASSASSINATION. , :
25 Hov 63
Priority

Msg Nr: 425 . 0
* + e
Pursuant to. omy ‘preceding: jrelegram( (A)).
a
The President! 8 déath was given official notice only ty:t the
lowering of a black flag: | to hal'f-staff at the govérnment~head-
quarters’and by the visit: of-a deputy minister of:Foreign Affairs
and an assistant deputy’ trade mifister to my American colleague.
The people remain- distayed, ‘but their anxiety of “the first ‘few
hours’seems to-have died. ‘The prdss, on the other hand, did
not deviate from its harsh custom 4f anti-American manifestation
and sought, with a-touch of irritabjlity, to reject any
sugggestion of Communist Taptlenisort, in the attempt.

((A)) Not available.

MS 47 | TI -- :
* Vv .
s/o] _ }r1259-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

in F. Kennedy As

on 08-
