# 144-10001-10143_docid_6780922_sealed

## Page 1

Dóc Ref ID: A4268769

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10143

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : GC/335/78

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

SILVER,

DANIEL

TO

KERNS,

ARTHUR

TITLE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

DATE :

09/07/78

PAGES

:

9

SUBJECTS

KENNEDY, JOHN, ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

: LETTER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

• DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released on 03-25-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Dóc Ref ID: A4268769

2100

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE. MAPYLAND 20755

Serial: GC/335/78

7 September 1978

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOP THE DIRECIOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ATTN: Mr. Arthur Kerns, Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Request for Information

1. Attached is correspondence which It Col Paul I. Fister,

Chief, Security Police, U.S. Air force Security Service, has ra-

quested this Agency to

bring to the attention of the Federal Zarea=

of Investigation.

The materials consist of a letter writter bi ora

David Christensen, a former U.S. Air Force Security Service seaber,

to a former colleague of Mr. Christensen's who passed it on to the

Air Force Security Service.

Also enclosed is Lt Col Fisher's cover

letter to MI. James Leer of this Agency.

Finally, since the photo-

COPY Of MI. Christensen's handwritzen letter is difficult to lead,

a typewritten copy

has been prepared for your convenience.

2.

The classification markings on the handwritten lette-

were

applied by the Air Force Security Service.

The typerizzien

version has been classified CONFIDENTIAL EVCCO, the highest level

affixed to the Handwritten letter.

3.

Should you feel it appropiate to disseminate the enclosea

materials

to any Committee of the congress, I would ask that you es

so only to members or to staffers who have appropriate Si ciea=-

ances.

The information contained in Mr. Christensen's lette=

that the Air Force Security Service was intercepting international.

commercial communications at Kirknewton, Scotland during 1953 is

correct, as is the assertion that that station monitored comuri-

cations links between Lisbon and other parts of the

worlà.-

NEEL

SILVE

General Counsel

3 Encls:

a/s

Released on 03-25-2022 under

the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Act of

1992

---

## Page 3

Dóc Ref ID: A4268769

GONREUSHINL

EPARTMENT OF THE AIR FOR_L

HEADQUAR: ERS UNITEO STATES AIP FORCE SECURIT: 55AN0E

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78243

2

JUN 122

DirNSA/M5 (Mr Lear)

Ft: George G Meade, MD 20755 :

Dear Jim

I am forwarding a letter from a former Security Service member to you.

It was furnished to us by the recipient, thraugh his commander, at crie

of our subordinate units.

After realizing the implications, true or othervise, we immediately

notified our unit commander to turn it over to the OSI in Florida,

believing they would contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation,

since the writer is a civilian now.

Yesterday, this office was contacted by an OSI agent at Lowry AFB, CO;

He was instructed

by his headquarters to interview the writer of the letter to determine

the names of other individuals he had contacted. Apparently: Tir. Christen-

sen has a long history of alcoholism, family problems and now wants to

see a "cleared psychiatrist" as he attributes all of his problems from

Oct 1963, per the OSI agent.

In addition, he has indicated to the 051

that he now fears for his life.

I am furnishing this to you as I feel the implication in the letter

should best be handled at the national level and that you are in the

best position to contact the Bureau. I have no knowledge that OSI hes

not done this, but in view of the faci the subject was interviewed as

a civilian by an AF agent, rather than an FBI agent, leads me to doubt

this.

In addition, you are in a much better position to determine where

the nearest psychiatrist, with access, is. located. For your information,

ke placed the classification markings on the letter.

We were told by Mr. Coombs; the OSI agent at OSI District 14, that the

doctor to contact at the VA hospital in Cheyenne, WY is a Dr Sedel,

commercial telephone number 778-7550, extension 273.

Warm regards

(PAULT. FISHER, It Col, USAF

Chief, Sécurity Police

j :28

1 Atch

Ltr (Christensen) (C-H/CCO)

CLASSIFIED BY ROD Dir S-5200.17 (11-2)

EX: PT FROM GERERAL DECLASSIFICATION

ILE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652

i on atricettor ty originator

13B10L

MOCCURATE ANTO ATCH ARE RENOVRO, ANE DORCIAL MANDIN

=.d:

•--*•ALLY MiNONIO.

---

## Page 4

Dộc Rèf ID: A4268769

. 3.

Wsi d

"..=

9:507EPterss

U. 17. 36is2til

thirilli 207-82801

zuch

well fter,35 jeangd

chde, t olit, mu

a ling tense Wiies Keakniet

ayuelisd

aleande

teich annd tey

iih Iasso

ptgeu acddins

fronthe silfit ti tgn

prich, untiten hipperel ts

Ait Pitn izieetim dis

ctihess 2tai

a tlhe heap

Shant jou hei

ecoini

inciüs

hada riinin beet

shnttiont onnacn tcite

PLaeis. Thing deri 6593

it tel!' fiere.

---

## Page 5

Đặc Ret ID: A4268769

203

The

o with the wit

06709o ihe

classical!

e frichel

run f that

-CONN: S.B

strang

---

## Page 6

Dọc ReTID: A4268769

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

esthen branch.

nichotine.

Let you se wiel

shall be quotes a semic

a bury destin

rach

the lara Fare.

a files bain thes

By into tas a practice misinge

My nate montin

2009 10 0.22,63.

it was nuts inton the fee

!. The flierg

infant terens

0723832201

33.23

VIA COMIN

---

## Page 7

Dộc Ref ID: A426

али.

Brent tre

is sistery

pine

rate

2220

then gent inge

1

I any thing trim

Marine tiefe

in hat gone

dentral

when grie

eback to me

16 lace

Clan do pict

44254224

articid

Women what rette is tiny

---

## Page 8

Đợc Ref ID: A4268769:

what in the hell an foe

Pan floate, any to??

my ma got hilton

Markete

2/ов

intentio

sage

you ld be dily sion

the parkly Ban

NO ASSFED

---

## Page 9

Dóc Ref ID: A4268769

COPy

47822

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

David F. Christiansen

V.A. Hospital

Sheridan, WY

82801

Nick,

Well after 13'1/2 years I finally found out your whereabouts, Dam, its

been a long time since Kirknewton, Scotland, and the beer we drank on tha

beach

and the club. Had to get your address fron the outfit in Texas.

Nick, whatever happened to Sgt Prater? If you know his whereabouts please

send me his address.

How in the hell have you been doing?

Nick, I had a"nervous breakdown. Plus in 74 my leg shattered in over a

hundred places. Things have really gone to hell for me.

I'm working with

the vets benefits counseler, who is a ex 203.

Speaking of 203's where the hell

is Frenchy? You know the little guy. What I'm going to say is no longer

classified, so don't get all shit shook. I've done checked it out.

Christ, you remember the position I woked at, in Sgt Praters section, don't

you?

You remember'about a month or 6 weeks before I left Scotland, when I picked

up a link mentioning the assassination of President Kennedy.

How hard I tried

to get it sent out; and because of that luckin Forney land Delaughter they wouldn'e

send it to NSA. Since I have learned that the nan's name, most mentioned cas

number 4 in a certäin branch of organized crime at the time.

Was number 2 last

year.

I will send you a form for proof of claim. This guy here "the 203" says

I should be getting a service connected disability for by nerves. The "link was"

Lisbon|

you remember.

How I got ny ass chewed for not dropping the

link.

Have learned that this branch of crise often will put out a feeler, of

forthconing things. By sending it as a practice message.

Nickjit really broke me up after Nov. 22, 63. Especially when I had it all

before hand.. It was first like the 202's said, Ha. I was nuts when the Russians

first came out with the ITI & B's.. Later proved them wrong didn't I. That was

another first for us as I recall. Duane Bruatz from Baker trick put up a good

support of my claim. I'm sending you this certified so to male sure you get it.

As I recall you should be able to B.S. then good enough to help me. I know it

cost me a divorce and every thing from my wife. Christ, you remember Mariene,

386 6 3A666ST

don't you? That good looking little 1/2 Indian girl fron N. Dak.. Nick when

you get this form send it back to me and I'll let the vets benefits guy to send

it in. being a M.Sgt I think you know how to bull she pretty good.

Also do

you know Sgt Harley and Sgt Willy Hendrickson's address. I guess old Garnett K.

Tatum retired. Wonder what gehto, he is living in, Ha!

HAT.

Fernot trors CDS, ED 11552, Cit---th----

Mary Upoo MatReation by the Prisinator

IS ONLY

---

## Page 10

Doc BgfTP: A4268769

CONFIDENTIAL

What in the hell are you doing in Florida, any how? Be sure to put

emphasis on my nerves going to hell and not giving a shit about my work after

the interception of the message.

•Y Y Prosign

Your old buddy from the Berkely Bar.

David F. Christensen

HANDLE VIA COMIT

IS ONLY

CONFIO

ENTIAL

---

