SRDATE: 99/12/97
Pace:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY . INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10206
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
ROM : LOUIS STOKES
TO : NSA
TITLE:
INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS OF KENNEDY AND KING
phate : teenie Hi 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)}
SUBJECTS: eet
SENATE LTR 12/20/76, REt- ;ANTONTO VECTANA
REPORT 3/0/TRIG{ _IT23-62 RE: N IR]
SSCT INQUIRY 1/4/77 RE: KENNEDY & KING
SENATE LTR 12/30/76 TO NSA RE: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE 7
DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM/REPORT/LETTERS
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS :

[RI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED — peivedrom:  NSACSSM 1239

Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked “OADR"
Mateaf. e: 3 Sep 91

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992



(unelessified until filled)
ROUTING SLIP

SUSPENSE DATE WoUR
. [ 29 Dec 77.
FROM TO ot
Select Comm on Assassinations (stoked) DIRNSA

BUBJECT OR BRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE (include Ileting of incie)

Request for information :

NO. COPIES DATE RECEIVED

0 Dec .77

DATE OF CORRESP, te OR SERIAL NO, far NUMBER

INCOMING i OUTGOING
INITIAL: INITIAL

2
3 ADPL
a EXREG | __5 Zp 2k
5 ADLA ce 2 ed il = eaTT
LAO 1
= 3 =
GC 4 3h 7
LAST L221 7
“i _ _ L ‘ 7
DO NOV FILE » a Dae
RETURN FO ha St = =

I. ACTION REQUIRED (complete items I thru 3) ae) pea ei tiki (if no action, sign below and
. PREPARED BY EXT. SIGNATURE (organization and ext.)
Julia Wetzel, U2 [ates . af ier eee Siseeeeee
CJ initian LETTER (X] FINAL REPLY. ; eo
INTERIM REPLY im OTHER Copecity in REMARKS" . ag al

Pome Z-) 7 = re 7 SERIAL

Deanne Siemer, General Counsel, DoD _

WEMARKS (If additional epece 1a necessary uae raverae) ~ ROUTING LEGEND
Original & ‘cys‘furnished forwarded this date unded i FOR our
control nos. LAO-006-78 & LAO-007-78 .by undersigndd5 [action T
Pat Tarte , 5 January 1978 COMMENT. e
ia CONCURRENCE 2-4
Please send DoD General’ Coung@l, - Miss. Siemer |[1-4 [Inrormation 5
a copy of the incoming letter. LAO nent “9 of EDITING

ae Cot. Natick, era 4a, 12 SIGNATURE 6

HA PP) 2a Sere ~ Jaa hen Xe, it Jake DISPATCH

d

ie L221] Fire 7

RETAIN

ROUTER (initial) VERIFIED (initial) DATE ROUTING SLIP NUMBER

EX REG 26: Dec’

EAE AR ASS Oe ie nile At AOD EK bain a nha lated en
i

ads OF

12-2022 under th


‘SAMUEL L. BI

wn, onc r)

Select Committee on Assassinations

GS. House of Representatives
3831 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

(202) 228-4624

Vice Admiral B. R. Inman

Director

National Security Agency

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Dear Mr. Director:

The Select Committee on Assassinations was
established by the House of Representatives pursuant
to House Resolutions 222 and 433 to investigate the
assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. In conjunction with our
investigation into the assassination of President
Kennedy, it has come to the Committee's attention that
the National Security Agency has information which
will be of substantial assistance to the Committee's
inquiry.

The information to which the Committee staff
needs access and which is held by the National Security
Agency is all outlines and summaries and biographical
data relating to the Cuban Intelligence network of
Premier Castro covering the period from 1959 - December 31,
1964 with emphasis on operations by Cuban Intelligence
operatives in the United States and other Latin American
countries, and any analyses of the direction and evaluation
of specific assassination operations.

In addition, the Committee requests that it be
provided access to any other materials you have relevant
to the assassination of President Kennedy or any
investigation into the assassination. Access to all
materials we will receive from the National Security
Agency will be restricted to staff members with a TOP
SECRET security clearance.


Vice Admiral B. R. Inman

The Committee requests that it be provided with
these materials as soon as possible, and would very much
appreciate it if we could receive such access prior to
the end of December. Should you have any questions con-
cerning this request, please address them to myself or
our Chief Counsel, G. Robert Blakey.

LS:jwe
cc: Mr. Frank Foster
Office of Leg#slative Affairs


@ genes oe
__ Legislative Affairs
; Fee 77
“To. Di
“Fuge: DiDie
Su G3ECT » Coston predence avis
dSnuee Assaarnadinnrs (Oe core
A. “the Dyhy CALL Comma
NN de Asseairnbna Commatn , My. 5
Wet cata db Sey bee emdiny od
0 Sct ae — ee
an H tes feresoate
A OSA, |
2. Comp Co rinkap Diy Cnn

i Sridct eee



Mr. Burke,

Attached is
I have talked to
and he says that
into the Kennedy
the SSC provided

I intend to

at that time.

4 fe ce .
dj |. Chief, Congressig@ Activities

22 December 1976

a request from the SSCI.
Fred Cassedy at the FBI
the Committee is looking
assassination and that
Veciana's name.

contact Howard Liebengood

next week and will probably arrange for
the SSCI to review the document out here

pe


BWelniter Blates Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
(eunsuant To 5. Res, #0, 867 conoHESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

ES
2. MADIGAN, MINORITY COURSEL

December 20, 1976

SENSIWVE

IN REPLY PLEASE
REFER TO Rf 5900

Mr. Frank Foster
Legislative
National Sec
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Re: Document Request

Dear Frank:

We understand that you have been apprised of the
Select Committee's interest in an NSA document dated
29 November 1962 regarding a subject of interest to
the Committee, Mr. Antonio Veciana. If you would be
kind enough to contact me at an early convenient date
to discuss Committee access to such a document we
would be most appreciative.

Thank you for your ongoing assistance to the
Committee.

Sincerely, ©

Massvatat oScelasegsrel

Howard S. Liebengood
Minority Staff Director

HSL: mlh



NOTE: .In response to the United States Senate Select
Committee (SSC) On Intelligence request #5724 re Antonio
Veciana, the attached document has been withheld from
SSC. (access only)

Please advise how, if at all, NSA desires this
document to be described to the SSC so that SSC may then
obtain its own clearance from NSA for access to the
document, if



TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

Cuban © Eo WS 36 3/0/TRIG

; {__}r23-62

; Pa * IS 29 Nov'62 Pp
FR | [U] <i 7 Tg. 28 Nov 62 7
TO [Puerto Rico] +7 (SERAFIN] Thee 7
Msg Nr: {MJ na :

G4 USC 2107 (6a)@DNO}

quanimity which’ you Possess," The =
be- carried: dut after completing the ; LY
conditions exist, . :

dle
; eee /

MS 84° oto pR on esp
‘TI 28 Nov 62 TO =~

OM] cautiousness and e
refinery plan [1 wa G} ((A))
fecruiting task ang when the

3/o/rRic-4 jr2
THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 pages

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

. 5) the Hae Fie


3/o/rric-___]r23-62

The plan for the execution oft NECTANA ((B)) andSESTEVEZ ((C))
is less important than the other. “What information [do you have
about} pl _ ALPHA? =F

Despite “detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of
action against VECIANA 4 7

“Listen tomorrow to the transmissions about the ‘concrete
objectives. * End of message. :

a iglnooeanne {xc}

- ( (R)) c percent | can,
2 ((3))
((c))

a member:of “the | codrdinating committee of cuban democratic

organizations in exile.
: oo

L SECURITY AGENCY

: d 64-330 -Riee- hon |

eek

BUREAU souace: - &

“KOT REG T RECORDED
“RAR 28 gay

Wa the



The ssc may obtain the attached document from NSA as
follows:

A classified document surfaced by the FBI which originated
from NSA contains the name of ANTONIO VECIANA. The document,
dated 29 November 1962, can be requested from Mr. Frank Foster,

Legislative Affairs Office, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755.


NSA requests that the attachea document, Be described to
the Senate Select Committee as follows:,+"

The document is classified TOP SECRET CODEWORD and can
be identified as 3/o/tRiIc{___|-r23-62, dated 29 November
1962. It is a record obtained by NSA in the course of a
lewful foreign intelligence operation and makes mention
of an ANTONIO VECIANA. The SSC can obtain this document

Zrom the NSA by requesting it from Mr. Frank Foster,

Legislative Affairs Office, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland
7

N

0755.



@

5 January

Jerry,
We have sent copies to EXEC/DDO,

Gc, V and G. Suggest that it should
also go to DIR & D/DIR.

fer—

John



F

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 4 January 1977

7 . : LIMDIS

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) Inquiry
into the Assassinations of Kennedy and King

1. On 30 December, the undersigned met with Howard
Liebengood, Deputy Staff Director of the SSCI staff and Tom
Moore, staff member. The meeting was to permit the Committee
to read an NSA end-product report on Cuba in response to the
Committee's letter #5900 dated 20 December 1976. The Committee
staff members exhibited keen interest in the product and the
two Cuban national names contained therein. The Committee
staff also indicated that they intended to broaden the scope
of their inquiry and would forward to NSA another letter
(which has been received and is inclosed) requesting access
to all Cuban reports stored in the repository for the period
1961-1965.

2. After the meeting, the undersigned contacted LTC Don
Bennett of Mr. Latimer's office to inform him of thé. first
letter since it had been sent directly to NSA. LTC Bennett
indicated that another DoD component had been asked for similar
information. As a result, LTC Bennett stated Mr. Latimer was
revising his earlier containing policy on providing to the
SSCI information on the assassinations and now had decided on
a policy of full cooperation. At Mr. Latimer's direction,
LTC Bennett will draft a letter to Staff Director Bill Miller
suggesting a meeting between the SSCI staff and Mr. Latimer's
staff; the meeting will focus on projected DoD responses to
the Committee's inquiry. NSA will be invited to attend these

meetings.
ferme W ra Pe
JOfN C. WOBENSMITH
Legislative Affairs
Incl:

Ltr dtd 30 Dec 76

cc: EXEC/DDO
GC


| PANEL
rdwaPo H
DIgcH MATH, IND.

AWlnitea Blates Benate

MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT., EX C#FICI0 SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
HUGH SCOTT, PAs, EX OFFICIO
(eunsuanT 10 5. nes. 09, srr concnes)

WILLIAM G, MILLER, STAFF DIREZTOR WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510
December 30,1976

IN REPLY PLEASE
“REFER TO R#6009 ©

Lieutenant General Lew Allen, Director
National Security Agency
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Dear General Allen:

The National Security Agency has recently provided the
Select Committee with certain intercept traffic relat-
ing to Cuba in November, 1962. We found this material
most helpful to the Committee's efforts and would most
appreciate access to any and all such traffic remain-
ing extant at the National Security Agency.

Thank you for your ongoing .assistance and cooperation.

Sincerely,

Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Vice Chairnan



Row =
~U. S. Senate (Baker)

SUBJECT OR SRIEF OF CORRESPONDENCE

“OUTGOING
SNITIAL

ROUTING LEGEND
Tf FOR

ACTION, «
COMMENT |”
CONCURRENCE +.
| INFORMATION
[EDITING
SIGNATURE
DISPATCH
DY Fie
RETAIN

w, PROUTING SyiB NUMBER
fei), sana :

pe Rear, hood

ROUTER (initial) VERIFIED (initiol)
EX REG 0 .0..'. Dena iboats
“FORM A1407 REV MAY 68 (supersedes A1407 FEB 64 which fa obsolete) "i"

