# 144-10001-10199_full release_20220328_ref id a4269462

## Page 1

Doc'Ref ID: A4269462

SECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 09/11/97

PAGE: 1

GENCY : NJ

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-1019

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCÔ

2X/0/CUD/R70-67

ITTLE CUBANS STUDYING IN THE USSR

PAGES: 12/11/67

SUBJECTS

MORENO, ALMANZA, CAMACHO, DE SOTERA,

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

i SENSTTTVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

SECRET MORAY

NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Dated 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR"

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

---

## Page 2

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

DA CURITY AGENCY

Muede, Marylaed

< A0/027 - 78

PEPORT

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

2К70/COD

L1 Dec 6

DIST:

LLOETACHE PRTOR

URD RETRI

5, 0,1.

01 3438

it De0/67

OUBANS STUDILNO EN THE LSSR

Pron 5. Maran to 6

reparted co be

coldying

by aba Cuban goveranent ((A))

1567 the Fclowing Cubans

ust under scholarchipe granted

The Infomation, in his report La arranged as follove:

tame; semarka: (messize date).

ACOSTA MORENO,

Information abouc thes

KLey.

His. grana

no answer to thats

ftoo; (20 Apr 67,

Foreiga Mintucet requestee

to hotde who ta studying in

brussy asa hia, family recolved

mosage caplied that he was

24 Арг 67).

AQUILAR, JUSTO% TO

reported to the Maniacry ot

Education Chac

the nchal ranip holde wuute bu braseling on

Flight S0-047;

121

Арс

ALMANZA,

Cducati on the t bet

mo corsed to the Mind abry ph

bech teareded and chae she

shop ta Flight

2500 to retaru to Havena

via Pragueli

14 Has

The

ALVAREZ CANADIO,

Cobasa

-DOCCOR

POET, CORTEN, LETS A.1

-2050100 10 10

TO Sepcember.

SONGHAI

he too That thia

GROUP-1

EXCLUDED PROX

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

24/0/cUD/370-67

0/54381-67

ANGEL

HORADOR

Poselen MintAtty zeguentad

thu L Chis scholacer

R4p 2201622

oe sent hones pe canently wich

the vacationing studente: 020 Jun

ARANGULES, BTMCSZ01 Ch

ashy infarued che Minictoy

of Edacacion chat tais

mún boider me leeving Moscos

on 6 June aboard (light SU-047: (4 cua, 67).

ARTECHE, AVANS ARTECIE,

NELSON: MORENO CARBOGEIL, JUAN:

CASTAÑOS, CARLOS: VATERA,

CASATA: The embansy reported that

tho Laust four sebolarahip holdara frou the Polytecinde Inacicute

In Loningrad and tha

Letost, fran tie TextIle Inatitute Jn

Lentagrad, wate Leering Lantagrad/on 12- June on the ship

BIATKA: (8 Juc- 67).

AVILA LOPEZ, LUPENCIO: SUAII, INES- ORTECA, CARMELO:

PAZ, IGLESTAS, TERESAS BRAVO,

AMBERTO: The embasey Laforued

the Ministry og. Education

Chae

scholarship bolders (ona

appolacico, 00e on

bes s0R, and chreo eraduates

respectively vete luaving

13 Jupe aboard (light S0-407;

(13 Jun 67)

school 1n Moscow, tolephone Ne.

B-20812.

Matttag adoreset

464600, extension 350 or mutes

CARBONEL, RTDAL; AQUITAR, CAREDAD:

asked that the diplomas of Con

tes fort

echal crahip

holders be sent.

20e 2uдази

CANSOTRI

elpald be sent to

La Victorla In Rueva - Cocona

eha Irla, de Pinos.

Tise

Minisury of Educacion was infored that he would be bravoling

ón 4 TU-114 (lighe on 27 Apxi): and that ATANDO GUERRA who

Has L12, would

cravel ca che. auns

day -aboard the Cubana ELighe:

(19 Миу 67, 27 Арк 67) -

CHANG,

58; Thp Enbesey

intornet the Mialatty of

Education

chio scholarablp holder was leaving on 29 June

aboard SU-047 and told chen co

C DAC RE CH

ad coort wich

& docter

and ambulance besain

Vas AL: (29 Jue 67),

GROUP- 1

EXCLUUTO TROM AUTOMATIC

DERFORADING AND LACLALSTRTGATTON

---

## Page 5

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

2x/0/cuD/870-67

0/54381-67

CLARO HAMI

RODOLFO: SILVA NERD, ALFONSOT The embassy

was intoned that these two thaology acholars vete to cake

s apocial cotae-year couse

under Professor NIKONSKY.

They

did not know Rasad an aud becauad they did knor Buglish they

would Itke to take the cauree Baglich while studying

RussLan at the same Clunt (19 fun 67).

CORDOVE, MARIANILA; The Acbeasy infomed the Miniatcy

ot Saucation that this graduace Tefuion 25 May aboard (Light

S0-047; (26 May 67).

CORONA,

31 viA and Sous MAGLAS, ARTURO; NORMAN, ALEREDO:

LENAGA, HILARZO: Tie cabaruy anfored She Miniatry of Education

chat, chane Chree scholarship holders and the lacter who ta In

the scholarship holder office of the echasey were traveling

on the TU flight on 4 ily and that posstbly Cout nore would

also leaves (4 Jal 67).

CRUZ, OMAR: The embasuy Infored the Mindetry of

Bluvation that this sobolarship. tluet wes leaving on 8. Jure

aboard Clught SU-047: (8 Jun 57) -

DEL TORO, MARIANO: JAMET RADO: ENVIQUE; the cobaaay

Jafored the Ministry uf Education that, these graduates vare

Leavtag on 24 June aboard Flight -SU-047; (24 Jun 67).

OLAZ, VECTORY CAMPANIONI, PARLOS ACUTLAR, JORGE:

LEONARD, MUNICO: BAMOS, GORGE: MATSO, ARACELY: ALVAREZ.

PATRICTAT CARCIA, ERNESTOS TURNANDEZ, OSCAX: LOPEZ, NARCISO:

The sabeasy Informad the Mislatay of Education that, chose

arbolarship holders loit on 11 July eboard the YU Aight:

(12 Jul 67).

ESTRNOS HARRERO, JESUS; DIAZ, MARGARITA; ALVAREZ, MARIA

CONCEPCION: BARINAS, SONIAL, The eobasay Infomed the Ministry

of Education that one scholarship helder who war 111, and

throe graduates respectivaly def!

LS May aboard the flight.

SU-047. ALVAREZ Cook ler con A6d FARINAS took her daughter:

(13 May 67).

BERNAZA, LUTS FELTRE: LOUSY LUPEROTO! The Foreign

Mitestry coked the

ombaady to antona chese TRATC scholarship

bolders that they could co

apprentteachipa:

1134

Aise 671

GROUP -1

EXCLUDED FRON AU DONATIO

DOVNGRADINIO ARD DECILASO LEICATION

---

## Page 6

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

SCRET

22/0/cUD/R70-67

0/54381-67

FERNANDEZ, CORTEN, PEONO:

1sn Ministry inforned

tha ambassy Coat

epplication for chis apprentice

rejected: (23, May 67) .

CAROLA, MARIA CAR-DAD: MORALES, CESAR, ALVARADO,

FRANCISCO; The enbasey defered the Ministry of Sdacation

that chene graduates lett on

March aboani TU-114 because

the scholarship vas canooled: (8 Mat 67).

CARCIA FIGAL, ARRANDO! A QJC ConnEtuee menber in Moacow

Informed LAZARO MORA, In cherge of Foreign kalation for DJc,

that thie nechanical engineering student an the Univereity

of Havana ahould come at once to Moucow to ace 4 speciallet

about baving another operacion for bure ha sufferid la an

accident. Money for his passage bad been

funds were needed for his stars

610 ApE 67 Provided, but

GARCIA HERNANDEZ, FRANCISCO; The cubasay asked the

Ministry of Education to Irfor MARIO FLET'ES of the Energy

Departuant of the Cujas BleaCedoal Engäteeriog Suhool that

hessuse. of curzloulut

probleng, the

scudent could ppecialize

La nechantes or in controle.

asked to be infomed of

the declaion wichin 72 hours.

enbasay lates scated that

по anave? was reestved

engineering apprentice

Яка

been changed Lrod electroni

rachandeal engineerings

(IT May 67, 26 May 67)

GE RAICE

NASER, SMILEO A.; PINEDA, JOAOUIN A.J The embassy

Informed cla Mialatty of Eduascion that chese graduates vere

Tending Moseow on 6 sung aboard Flight SU-0-7 and seked chat

these families be notified at phone numbes 94128; (4 Jun 67).

SODINEZ, TURARIN;

Student

at the Pashkin Mill bary Academy

n Lettugrad, Suice

7578 (23 Hay 67)

CONZALEZ, JOSESILVTO:

The embassy asked

tha

for chese acadony

on 11 May end

left

ARRUE LANES, DAYTO: WASH, EFREIN:

ef Education to book passages

They lots Moscow

aboars the Cubana Tight

of 12 May: (3 May 67,

GONZALEZ

Tonned the

The Coreizu Ministry in-

«crup balder' o parente had

marlon of hút health van

n14 cone Co Cubai (19 May 67).

GROUP-1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTONATIC

JOUNGRADING

AND DECLASSIE LOATEON

---

## Page 7

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

4х/0/спо/1.70-67

4351000)

9/34382-67

CORALO, JOSE: ACUUTTR, MANUELE

10.

SERGIO, The Miniet Cy

of Education was intomed chuc

area graluates of the

Naval. Academy In Odessa veze leaving on 9 August aboard the

TU (01 ght; (2 Ang 07)

CUERRERO, CLARO! The enboaty infored, the Ninistry of

Education that chis echolarship bolders

sha vas 411, vao

leaving on 7 Jane on (Light BU-047: (6 cua 67).

CUMA, EMILLO: CONZALEZ, MARTIN, DIEGOS LOPSE, CUTLABINO:

The Torelga Ministry reported clat a passage was booked Cor

Мовсск-Рсадав-layn fo= OUNA and Chat the Academy of Solenos

had booled a passage for CONZALEZ, fus Moscow-Prague-Havana,

Later, the Forolga Ministry confi med that the ciolate had

been purobated.

LOPEZ would une the passage booked for

CONZALEZ From Prague to Navara: (17 Ja 67, 28 Jun 67).

LADRON DE QUEVARA, CARLOS, The Foreizo Miniatsy asked

that the ambassy sond the cercification and grades obtained

at the Kley Preparatory by this tone= scholasahip holders

(29 May 67).

TARA, ESTERANZA, The embansy onked the Minint cy of

Etacatlou to notify this scholarship holder's family in

Canaguey chat she was woll and would be learing on 2 May

«board the TU Elights (26 Apr 67, 29 Apt 67).

LOPEZ ECHIEVARRIA, RATLY The endasy reportad to the

Mindetry of Sducation chat this graduate left on 27 July

choard the ship KRASNOLRAD fron the post 2n Leningrad;

(30 Jul 67).

the LUCT RAFART ALVAREZ, SeOt 79-01 A102UTY KReuCings VIa

the embanay to thene ahren scholar Ay holdere of che

Centzal Plansing Bosed (JUBELAN) as dominoration of che

fourteenth auntvaritary of the vorkera attack on the Moncada

barreckus

(23: Jul 67).

LOTS% VALLES, RAFARL) scholasslap, holder to Moser,

Telephone Nr. 390011: (3 Mar 67).

GROUP-1

EXCLUDEO PHOM AUTOMATIO

DONNCTRADINO AND DECLASSERTCATIO

---

## Page 8

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

22/0/cUD/870-67

LEOR 70

4L10

ДИНО KERERUENO

0/54381-67

MARIN, JOSE: BARKETRO, MANUZL, The eubassy informed the

Ministry of Education that thane

Erebusted were leaving on

27 June aboand flight 50-0471 (27 Jun. 67) .

MARTINEZ, SOLER, FRANCISCO: MARTINEZ SOLER, RUBEN:

ALYAREZ,

1SOPOLDO3

QUESADA

STARSZ, MANUEL, The embassy informed

the Ministry of Education that

hese scholarahip holdeza would

Leave 14 June

Eron Che port

Leningrad on the ship SANT GADHI

for chade vacattons, (8.

Jan 671

MARTINEZ, VALIES, ALINA; The Minetty of Bducation Informed

the embassy that this echolarship bolder should serve bar

apprenticeahip chure and asked,

to be notilled LE she would

be finished befort bez vacation:

(3 Jun 67) -

MARTTH HERNANDEZ, ILTRAI

PENEL PSKONO, MARCIA: PENEZ,

ARMANDO and hia site IRA BIBLOBARODOVA? The embasay repozted

to the Mindetry of Education that the graduates MARTIN, TERE?

and her son, and the wife of thi

other graduate were traveling

on 29 July aboard fLIght SU047;

(27, Jun 67).

MIERES, RAIL S

Education that thia Pi

for Cuba on the ship K

assy reported co the Ministry of

scholazship holder was leaving

NA Erou Odessa; (26 May 67) -

MONTERO, ORLANDO:

embasey Inored the Mindatry of

Education that this scho

arship holder was not traveling to

Cuba by plane, but

lsaving on the ship KRASNI ANTIABRIE

from Odessa on 28 Ap={11 (26 At 67).

MONTES, NORMAL BATISTA STIN, JOSE JUTS; The embaary

Infozund the Miniatry of Elucation Chat these echolarship

holders at the Univeretty of Lounosor had served their

apprenticeshipa and were

leaving the. New

fontk port abourd

the ship RABINSTOVA on 26 May Coz Cubxy (26 May 67).

NUNEZ, ORLANDO:

MSTE0LAN0S, 2085.

ALVAREZ, SOTSRAS,

MICUEL ANGEL Dr.: The

sutored the embassy

that the two engineering post graduates froa che Cuban

Institute of Metaozology, who vare co spectalizo La hydcor

meteorology be the Asadomy of Sclenues, and DE. ALVAREZ, MhO

xas to cake a courve do cossatology for the Miniatty of Publie

Health, were leaving on 27 Apell aboard tin Soviat ship

VTB80G: (28, Арг 67, 13 Ику 67).

GROUP - 1

BECLUDED FROM AUTOMATTO

DONDCRADIRG AND DECLASSTEZGATION

T DETACH TRIOR TO RELEASE TO WORT

MOOC

---

## Page 9

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

/CUD/R70-67

RESIDENT)

O AS

ORAO: * TOELPONSO: The Cuban Inatitute of Art and

Сілов содтаріз Labustry (LCALC) coLd the

should not retum nos Il he had

emossay abould nostfy ICATG of hie

zeburn date; (17 Jun. 67).

PANIOTA, ELENAS TERRILONOR,

VIA: PERNANICE, LALTANA:

CASTILIA, MANICELAT The Co

Educatloa, that these scholarhip holdere had fintebed their

course for Inacructors of. tenslators and wore leaving on

[Light TU-114; (34 Apr 67):

PARDELLO, NORMAl Tha embasey asked the Minatzy of

Educatien to tell her fantly not to worry, She wan 411 and

would leave far. Cuba on 9 Kay ab:

sars 2l ghet su-047:

(5 May 67, 9 Hay 67),

PAZ. ESCALANTE.

THAT MORATES,

DIEGO: SALAZAR, CALLXTO:

The Ministry asked foc inforuition about acholaralip bolder

PAZ, and the embassy replied that she var Cipe and vould

terain there notil

-he and of May.

Later the cabaany Inforued

Che Miniatry of Education: thar TAZ who greduated, MORALZS,

a graduato, and SALABAR,

who sran

Boseg on vacacion to seo

his alck wife, were leaving on Clight SU-047; (4 May 67,.

5 May 67, 14 dul 67).

PAZ. ICLESTAS

A TERESA: VINA QUINTANA, ANA:

The enbassy

intoroed che Ministry that

anaco, PAZ JOLESTAS bad

not been sble to leave yet, but woutd leave with har son

on 22 June aboand flight S0-047.

The Ministry wee asked to

notify lur fantly at phose No, 30-4395. The embasay also

ported that the SCATC graduata VINA would be leaving on

sane Pl4ghet (13 Jun 67, 22. Jun 67).

PEREZ, AU120; The eubassy infured che Hintetry of

Education chat the scholare dp holder at che Univeraisy

of Lononssov sho vill diniab bla studies on 15 July, requested

to serve his apprenticeship in dube. le had been plenning

on Chie singe December. The foreign Mintate mplied chat

they would try to carty out the plana although they could

not guarantee it, but coay vanted a copy of the appreciceship

progrant (26 May 67, 3: Jun 67).

PEREZ, MARIO, The embarsy inturned the Minustry of Educa-

tion that this scholarship boldox had taft on 16 May aboard

the TU light because of tlingsat (17 May (6)).

LACEUDRO FROM AUTOMATIC

DONNORADING AND EECLASSIFICAZIIN

---

## Page 10

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

CARUN

2х/с/сш/870-67

LOSTA

10 00

0/54381-67

PONCE DE LECH ORTSCA, OSSLE MEDARDO; The Forelga Ninistry

aakod the enbaasy for tbe addresa of cids scholarship holder

because he had not written and his nother was worrled:

(5 May 67) -

RANOS DEL SACO, MIRAN: The Embassy Infomed the Miniatry

of Education that che Escontan wife of thie acholarship holder

as the Univereity of Lononasey had left for Cuba on 4 May

aboard a TU-114 Flights (i May 67).

RAMRIZ, J05B A, 1 The Forelga Ministry Satorued the

embasay that the Academy of Sciences wanted the package

left at the embasey by this student to be sention the first

plane because le concaloud booka that vere needed foz the

Institute of Meteorology? (4 Jul 67).

REYES, HOGO: The embassy asked the Ministry of Educataon

LE this scholarship holder shoute

be sont to Prague for che

Crip hove beesuse his cother

T. She had an operation,

but wan doing well, Th

add hu ahrald cono, and

he Late on the Clicht

T3-114

bulgaria.

tater the ent

Sa tro soliolerablo holdera fran

potted that be would not pass

nis colese because ha had masane

alasaes and had acadanle

offenses: (29 Na: 67

14 Арс 67, 14 Арг. 67, 29 Арг 67).

KALES SOLER.

LUTE

Chat a progran Lot

A 01501 The Pore Ega Miniatry askad

bydrolog

to hiu Lt he doan

and geology studente be cent

and the alover hydcology

and geology acholarship

«boold cone immediately so

that they could surve

Cheue

attosshipe before their

усАсіса) (24 Мау 67, а тиа 67).

RODRIGUEZ ABELLA, MANUEL; The Miniatty of Odacacion

repeated ite roqueat for cerul(loation of hle atudied;

(2S May 67).

RODRICUEZ ALVAREZ,

ROLANDOl The Torelan Mintatry asked

che anbaddy to Lind ou

the hea ch of thia acholarship

holder in Klav because be

had not mitten to ada family since

November and van dil at cheth

Catus.

He was to be. instructed

to write home: (14 Ape 61).

GROUP-2

DONNCRADINO AND DRCLASSZNTOATLON

---

## Page 11

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

28/0/CUD/R70-67

RSETPIETE))

0/54391 -67

HOPSCUEZ,

RATSAS

of Educatton that thia asholarahir

seportee to the Ministe)

poldes oas in no coodicion

to tzavel to Cuba becauge she had surt ghyrn blrch to a

daughter who was eiok: (16 Jul 5T).

ROMANY -; The enbasty, Infuted the Mintatry of Education

chat chla gradaate Craanlator was leuring on 27 April aboard

• TU-114 (lizhes (26 Apr 57).

ROSALES, ALPREDO: The Miniatry of Bdusatson told the

eabassy that thia scholarahdp wilder'e facalls bad beon

infored that he had left Leniugrad on & Soriet ship wich

three othors and aaked far

Che nanes obiche boab and che

osher Chire scholdrahlp nolderas (2S May 67).

KLUTO, RAUL: The embassy indoosd

cho Miniatry of

Education that thia echolasshtp.bolder

Zeaving on 23 May

sboard flight SU-047 because. of

(23 May 67, 23 May 67).

e nerroue diacrier:

ROIZ, MARCRITA: Die enbassy caked the Mindetry of

Edocacion co have soneone pras chis

Euderg and her deughter

who was 111, They lerb oo A2 Jute Abcard Tlight SU-047:

(22 Jtn 67).

SALAZAR, CALIXTO, Thy egDasey.

sind the mintatry of

Educatlon whesber chis schafarshup belder should tuavol by

ohip oz plate when

Cirtabed hin work on 5

-x00, The

Ministry confimed bis vife's «tlvess

asú seid he sbould

£1y, but snould sond hia baggage by

COLP.

He wau latex

Fpascee to be bravoling to culs

ca ftight SU-047;

(26 May 67, 10 Jun 671 14, 3u3 67)

SANCHEZ, EVELIA) The enhases t/oracd

Che Mintetry of

Education that this ncholazelup tolder and ber daughter vore

Crevuling oo.27 April abonrd

Cho TU T1 (g6t1 (37. Apz 57).

SANCIEIE ODA •

JORCR, The

CrbAses nle aaked Cot tieva about

Ehts onginaerine

scholesstap-batdes

tus Jackoy Iechnloal

Institute: (16 Ma)

SOTO, RAMON:

REICOSA, OKLANDOS TLTUEREDO, CARLOS)

ALVAREZ,

TERES 12A,

RAVELO, AUS2O

ALVAREE, ALBERTOS FINLAT.

LUIS: Toe anbasey incocied tin

Renintry of Educatlon chac

Ilve of thess gcaduaça acta?

3 Nvrto going to

GROUP-1

BXOLUUED EROM AUTOLATAG

DOSNORADTNG AND DECLANE LFICATIO

---

## Page 12

Doc Ref ID: A4269462

Prce

Laforsas

he had

SLK

DTEOo,

Chece sehe

TV Trighti

TOIUES

mbessy to taiotr

nuti g

TR

taa sohe

fon teve

tếm bry

he Minlet o

aütcey checkeezu

RONG, LELTAS

LASTRO

отелвнт aakad, tact

Chet Cheat

left: on

Lencuates 1aa

21 Jun

00e Aboaod 46

chat hí:

31i che

erclele?

cetiiiing

(19 Jum 67).

0R00P-]

DORTERADZAC

HARU

and chath

ALVARsa and PINLAY

(08*1 67)

PARIACEY

cholerotúlo ho

AG ĐOn

577.

SANONPLOn

Lachon

Drane wher

LORINCO 19OKG;

Luty rố Bảuna ti on thuu

Laacatton seked ths

holien chet he oouud send

23ho9t and shodie

аво1 (15 Арт/67).

VALG6

APPSARES AR TRLBAS) :

SRATRA

eskod itte enhaney

nat

bann xàle

to neach

NEETE

HOSCOS. 3ас0r

eetum forle

sacali ontoe

spudonta

01. Tho

Ayt08

-60

1 тбо рако

take, che TU

0na t.

HTA NTEOUASL

---

