# 144-10001-10119_docid_6782109_sealed

## Page 1

TOF

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10119

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR.

FROM

NSA

NSA

TO :

TITLE

3/0/W/T82-64: MCCLOY DISCUSSED WORK OF WARREN'S COMMISSION|

DATE

01/29/64

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

NVESTIGATION; WARREN: COMMISSION.

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

+.

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R]

IRI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SE

Va facetsi

UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

ÄÑNO FOREICA DISSEMINATION***********

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

WS 509

3/0/W/T82-64

29 Jan 64

MCCLOY DISCUSSED WORK OF WARREN'S COMMISSION

27 Jan 64 101D

Routine

Msg. Nr. 28

....

For

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

During our talks, McCLOY, on his own initiative, brought up the subject

of criticism of the European

press, especially the French, of the activity

of WARREN's commission.

In a lengthy monologue he condemned

accusations that the commission

intends, in the name of public interest, to. gloss over the evidence of the

assassination and with its authority support the conclusions reached by

the FBI.

He wants to assure us that he will not permit any distortion or conceal-

ment of the facts; however, from-materials at his disposal, he is more and

more convinced that OSWALD committed the crime by himself.

I acknowledged

his information with the statement that interest in the commission's report

is great everywhere because of the shock of KENNEDY's assassination and of

the world position of the USA.

McCLOY's statements confirm the opinion circulating here that the

commission is mainly interested in proving that the assassination was not

linked with any foreign centers. At the same time, public statements made

3/0/W/T82-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

-xix

TOP SECRET DINAR

ARCINO FORDION DIDGEMENATION*******

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

3/0/w/T82-64

by MARK LANE, hired by OSWALD's mother to defend her son before the commis-

sion, must be treated very carefully even in our press. Our friends consider

him an unscrupulous politician interested only in his career. He is

financed by groups which lean toward the Chinese viewpoint.

MS

--

CN --

TI -

- 2 -

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

