# 144-10001-10164_docid_6782394_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ib+A4269431

Date: 10/13/95

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10164

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOD

FROM

TO : NSA

TITLE :

HCSA REQUEST FOR NSA MATERIAL ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

DATE : 11/14/78

PAGES: 8.

SUBJECTS :

DIPLOMATIC PRODUCT REPORTS

CUBAN COMMUNICATIONS

CUBAN REPORTS/ TRANSLATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM, LETTERS

CLASSIFICATION : +

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

Doc Ref ID: A4269431 -

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON. D.C..20301

NOV 1 4 1978

Distribution List for Requests of

House Select Committee on Assassinations

From: Judith A. Miller

Assistant to The Special Assistant

Eric I. Freyfogle

•

Sara Lister

Major Dick Flowers

John Brock

Colonel Hartig

I NSA.

Office of the General

Counsel, Department

of the Army :

Associate General Counsel,

Department of the Navy

Office of the Secretary

of the Air Force

Legislative Liaison

General Counsel, Defense

Intelligence

Agenc

Defense Investigative

Service

superse: 2118021978

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Doe Ref ID: A4269431

1113@@ovr

LOUTS STORES, OHIO, CHAlI

FUCHS PUSON FATTER, N.C.

AMUEL L. DIVINE, OHIO

TIWART S. MC KINNEY, CONT.

YVONT URATHWAITE BURKI, CALIT:

CHARLES THONE, NEUR.

CHRISTOPHIR S, DODO, CONN.

MATOLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD I. FITHIAN, INO.

ROBERT M. IDaAR, PA.

(202) 225-1624

Select Committee on Assassinations

El.&. House of Representatibes

8369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

November 8, 1978

The Honorable Harold Brown

Secretary of Defense

The Pentagon

Washington, D. C. 20301

Attention: Mr. John G. Kester

Special Assistant to the Secretary

Dear Mr. Secretary:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of President John F.

Kennedy,

the Select Committee on Assassinations requests

that the Department of Defense state

following materials are located in either Central Records

facilities, Intelligence Records and Reports, or "vault

files"

Fort George Meade, Maryland:

A. Any and all records, files, reports, photo-

graphs, and regulations pertaining to Depart-

ment of Defense advance work, coordination,

and actual participation in the protection

of

the President and the Vice President in

the context of public appearances and

travel in 1963.

.B. Any and all records, subject files, files on

individuals, reports and photographs pertain-

ing to the assassination of President Kennedy,

including but not limited to the names of

Department of Defense personnel present in

Dallas on the day of the assassination, their

duties and functions on that day, and the re-

ports they generated.

C.

Any and all records, files, reports, and

photographs pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref ID: A4269431

The Honorable Harold Brown

November 8, 1978

Page Two

request.

Or A. (Alek) J. Hidell.

Thank you for your pronpt attention to this

Sincerely,

kies Blaby

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: I99

---

## Page 5

Doc Ref ID: A4269431

TOP SECRET

File

OBA A PM., IN CARS 101-11.8/

UNITED STATES GUVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DATE: 15 June 1978.

FROM

: LAO

--

SUBJECT: HCSA Request for NSA Material on Kennedy Assassination

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

1. Based on our discussion with Judy Miller, my understanding was that

Mr. Blakey's most recent request. for data from NSA involved a review of

post-assassination

product on a world-wide basis to determine

if reports relevant to the assassination exist. Though Ms. Miller did

not specify a time period, a three month period subsequent to the event

would involve - as an example - six to nine thousand reports and would

require 120 to 150 hours of analyst time just to conduct a manual search

of the microfilm files where these records reside.

2.

subsequently spoke with Mr. Roger Denk, DIA, who had actually

participated in the briefing of Mr. Blakey, using our SECRET-level statement

as a basis.

might relate to the assassination and that, therefore, he had had nothing

to offer Blakey except the NSA-prepared sanitized statement. Mr. Denk also

provided a different, much more ambitious new requirement from Blakey than

that reported by Judy Miller.

3. According to Denk, what Blakey really wants from NSA is for us to

conduct a thorough review of all Cuban communications during the six year

period from January 1959 to December 1964, in order to see "what the Cubans

were talking about/thinking about" of possible relevance to the assassina-

tion - a real fishing expedition in my view. Blakey is also reported to

desire a "characterization of the traffic" - and not the traffic itself.

4. This latest version of Blakey's interests, which has probably

been stated to us fairly accurately by Denk, represents a very significant

work load indeed. Based on some very educated estimates made by the

people in Il2 who maintain the historical microfilm files, there were

approximately 200,000 Cuban reports or translations issued during the six

year period of interest, and roughly 2,000 man-hours of effort would be

required to search these records for items of interest.

5.

As we have discussed previously, I believe that NSA - in a number

of separate, thorough analytic efforts - has performed reasonable and

detailed reviews of all available signals intelligence.

None of these

reviews has resulted in the derivation of any data of direct significance

to the assassination. A summary of these separate NSA efforts is attached.

-

TOP SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on tbe Payroll Savings Plan

8010-110

---

## Page 6

Doc Ref ID: A4269431

ru.,

TOP SECRET

It seems to me that this summary should now be used

as the basis for advising

Mr. Blakey that we have reviewed all our holdings and have found nothing

directly (or even indirectly) relevant to his investigation.

Sene

EUGENE F. YEATES

Incl:

a/s

SECRET

HANBLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

2

---

## Page 7

Doc Ref ID: A4269431

TOP SECRE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

15 June 1978

SUBJECT: Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related

to the Assassination of President Kennedy

Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSA has

performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of

materials in

its files in an attempt to isolate data that might be relevant

to the assassination of President Kennedy.

Nothing of significance

has been determined as a result of those

reviews.

1.

November-December 1963 - Immediately after the

assassination, NSAnitlated a Large-scale manual and machine

review of available SIGINT, including all U.S. /Cuba traffic. (NSA

intercepted messages at an

average of 1,000 per day at that time).

A computer search was initiated using Oswald's name as the minimum

for research criteria.

Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/New

Orleans and Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed (an analyst involved

recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,

along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic).

during the search,

items from the Oswald address book provided by

the FBI were added

to the search criteria.

1964 - Warren Commission - The Commission, in the

person of Allan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits

secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the

documents.

It also appears that NSA searched records for information

on the basis of other Warren Commission requests made informally

by Allen Dulles.

3. November 1975 - Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) :

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,

NSA reviewed its Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military.

or Earl Ruby (a Harvest run was made).

traffic was also

Mexico.

June 1976 - Pursuant to FOIA requests asking for

material

relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

---

## Page 8

Doc Ref ID: A4269431

(TOP SEC

of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.

Strongbox searches were made on the following:

Lee Harvey Oswald

Assassination of

President Kennedy

Earl Ruby

Cobo Cleaners

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1977

1966 - 1977

5.

December 1976 - Senate Select Committee on Intelli-

gence (SSCI) - Requested all the material we had available on

the

Cuban agent problem.

It consisted of 485 reports for the period

1961 - 1965.

All of these reports were received by Committee

Staff Members.

March 1978 - House Select Committee on Assassinations -

Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materials

relating to the Assassination.

All Cuban agent material (1961 - 1964).

was reviewed, as was material

that had been previously compiled to

respond to the SSCI and SSC requests.

B.

As a result of the reviews described above, the following

materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were

located (referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs) :

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)0)

1. Four Cuban diplomatic messages which contained

official

Cuban comments regarding press

items that discussed Oswald's

activity in late, September 1963 to obtain a visa to travel to

Moscow.

There were also comments on the assassination itself.

The messages are dated

in the last week of November 1963.

2. Three Cuban military reports which show

that Cuban

military forces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.

3. One 1962 Cuban Intelligence message concerning the

assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto

"Rico) SERAFIN.

4. One 1966 Cuban Diplomatic message, concerning a Spanish

•diplomat in Cuba. It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate

an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul Castro Ruz, possibly

•linking it to the CIA.

5. Information in an FBI document relating to a

Twas supplied by NSA. Because this document

was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation

to the assassination.

One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim

Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and

David W. Ferrie.

•TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMMIT CHARNELS ORLE

2

---

## Page 9

Doc Ref ID: A4269431

TOP SECRET

material derived, it is possible to state

review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or

suggesting Cuban involvement in the assassination of President

Kennedy."

EUGENE F. YEATES

Chief

D1

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

3

---

