Doc'Ref ID: A4269378 Date:08/13/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144~-10001-10148

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE
VISIT TO HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

DATE : 11/28/78
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS
STEVENSON, NICHOLAS B., INTERVIEW
INVESTIGATION, HSCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

OPEN IN FULL
ie)

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
DOCUMENT IS FROM A FOIA LITIGATION FILE AND IS REDACTED AS RELEASED TO THE

REQUESTER.. A CLEAN COPY HAS NOT BEEN LOCATED.

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


Doc Ref ID: A4269378 a

SCONFIDENTIAD = comin eases 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD . 28 November 1978

SUBJECT: Visit to House Select Committee on Assassinations

1. On 21 November I visited House Select Committee on Assassinations
spaces to review for classificat‘ion purposes the report Messrs Cornwell
and Klein wrote following the W November interview with Sgt Nicholas B.

Stevenson, USAF. .

2. The report, about oné and a half pages long, listed the participants
in the interview and describdd generally the substance of the discussions.
Although it did not mention the specific site to which Sgt Stevenson and

{Mr Christensen’ were assignéd, it did say that the facility was able to
. “collect the’ Eisbo fink. The report further mentioned “intercept”

and "NSA" in several places.

3. I told Mr. Cornwell that as written, portions of the report should
be classified "CONFIDENTIAL, HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY." He agreed
to classify it and asked me to mark it which I did. I suggested that with
a few changes we could make it unclassified. Mr. Cornwell stated that he
would prefer to retain the original language of the report at this time
but that if it was to be used in any unclassified report by the Committee,
he would then ask us to review the wording so that classified information
would not be disclosed.

4. Mr. Cornwell asked if NSA had determined whether the conversation
Mr. Christengen referenced had been published and disseminated in product
channels. I told him that we had not yet determined the answer to that
question and that we would be back in touch.
Ve)

KU oa

L
JULIA B. ies
Legislative Affairs

yi

DISTRIBUTION: iG
DIR <ieserEEST

D/DIR wa
ADPL AD in
D4 LAG

6c

DDM

MS

DDO

Exec/DDO

G

G8

Released on 03-25-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992
