# 144-10001-10191_docid_6760051_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4269458

DATE: 12/15/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10191

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

G/1430-78

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

CHIEF G

DIRNSA

TITLE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS QUERY

ALE: 04/05//

AGES • !

SUBJECTS

RE SUCCESSFUL INTERCEPT OF CUBAN COMMS

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/13/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

Doc Ref in Bon. 10

•DRA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

THRU:

Memorghdum

FROM :

G

SECRET

SENSITIME

Serial: G/143-78

DATE: 5 April 1978

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

SUBJECT:

House Assassinations Committee Query

1. Attached is our proposed response to the queries passed to us from

the House Assassinations Committee.

The information requested was supposed

to be for the period 1959 - 31 December 1974.

However, our first successful

interception of Cuban agent communications was on

2.

The source products from which we extracted the attached informa-

tion were published in the Category Ill TRIG and DENT, US/UK EYES ONLY

series.

We believe we have done sufficient sanitization so that, when the

association with NSA is removed, the text could be releasable as national

TOP SECRET, Sensitive.

R. E. RICH

Chief,

G

tester

4044.114

MANDLE VIA COMMIT CHANNELS QUISE

00Lл010533 33086

TOP. SECRET.

Buy U.S. Savines Bonds Recularly on the Pavroll Savings Plan

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Doc Ref.ID: A4269458

SENSIVE

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)()

CUBAN AGENT ACTIVITY IN THE WESTERN 'HEMISPHERE 1959-31 DECEMBER 1974

Cuba used agents for intelligence and subversion in North, Central,

and South America; Africa; and Asia

In the Western Hemisphere during the early sixties, diplomatic

cover became less

available to the Cubans, and by spring of 1962,

Cuba had diplomatic relations with only one-third of the Latin American

countries.

Cuba's interest in fomenting discord and promoting revolu-

tion obviously grew as she became more isolated officially from the

rest of the hemisphere, and the Cuban General Directorate of Intelli-

gence (DGI) inevitably increased its reliance on illegal/clandestine

agents.

By the time of the Cuban "missile crisis" in October 1962,

Cuba was known to be

By the end of 1964, Cuba enjoyed formal relations in the hemisphere

with only Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, "and the United Nations in New York.

tOP SHORT

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref ID: A4269458

2220900 9 819

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

SENSITIVE

A primary target for penetration was ALPHA 66, a Florida-based

exile organization reputed to have near-legendary powers and resources.

The Cuban government still claims

U.S. government direction and funding.

of the organization whose claimed activities included night raids

along the Cuban coast, infiltration of agents into Cuba, harassment

of the Cuban armed forces, and weapons drops to counter-revolutionary

groups on the island.

2

22: 42 20 2002020202202

---

## Page 5

Dọc Ref ID: A-4269458

• SHORE

SENSIONE

ANY MATERIAL RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY OR

ANY INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION.

We have reviewed the Cuban

materials previously compiled to

respond to SSCI and Church Committee hearings.

The only information

regarding the KENNEDY assassination which surfaced might be termed

reactive; that is, it reflects some of the reactions of the Cuban

government to the assassination. Army and Navy elements in Eastern

Cuba were placed on alert status on 22 November, apparently in

reaction to news of the President's death. This action was probably

a reflection of the Cuban government's paranoia over a possible

military action against Cuba, possibly originating from the U. S.

Navy Base at Guantanamo. That the Cubans were sensitive to suggestions

that they might be implicated in the KENNEDY assassination is very

evident in the following 25 November press release from the Cuban

Foreign Ministry:

"With relation to the information published today ( (25 November))

in the newspaper EXCELSIOR in Mexico City, affirming that

LEE HARVEY OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel to the

Soviet Union at the Cuban Consulate in Mexico in September, the Cuban

Government requested information from the officials of our Consulate

in that city confirming that it is certain that Mr. LEE HARVEY OSWALD

requested the transit visa for travel to the Soviet Union on

27 September in the said consulate.

"On being informed by the consular officials that their office

could not grant such a visa without the authorization of the Cuban

Ministry of Foreign Relations, which likewise would not grant it if

it was not previously authorized by the country of destination,

Mr. Oswald left the Consulate visibly disgusted.

or the constate:

"The said visa was never granted.

"This detail, in connection with the other circumstances that

surrounds the facts, confirm our suspicion that the assassination of

KENNEDY was a provocation against world peace, perfectly and thoroughly

planned by the most reactionary sectors of the United States.

"It is evident that these sectors planned beforehand to involve

Cuba and the Soviet Union in these deeds.

"The inconceivable and inexplicable impunity with which an

individual of known penal antecedents assassinated OSWALD, the

principal accused of the assassination of President KENNEDY, in

the presence of the police themselves and in the basement of a

prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and indisputable manner that

the powerful reactionary political forces within the United States

are making use of all their resources and influences in order to

conceal those who master-minded KENNEDY's assassination, and the

true motives for it.

P200n273 104

---

## Page 6

Dọc Ref ID: A4269458

aside.

8EN85IMS

"World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.

It is absurd that the political

authorities and the prosecutin

attorney of Dallas have declared that the case is closed when hardl

48 hours have passed since a deed of so great a result as the

assassination of the

President of the United States."

.. J.1

---

