# 144-10001-10365_docid_6782008_sealed

## Page 1

DATE: 10/09/92

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10365

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER OPSUM #2039

JATE

AGES: ≤2/13/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

ASSTETCATTON : PAPER, TEXTUAL DUCUMEN

LASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

• in

TOP SECRET DINA:

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER

OPSUM #,

: 2039

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

This internal NSA report summarizes significant intelligence

developments, arranged by area of occurrence, and operational

developments of general interest. The material contained

herein was selected from SIGINT, collateral and press received

in the NSASCC between 120700z - 130700Z December 1963.

CURRENT SIGINT READINESS STATUS

READINESS

AREA

ESTABLISHED

: STATIONS INVOLVED

ALERT ONE

30 Nov

SOUTH KOREA

1.

A plot exists to assassinate PAK CHONG-HUI, President

of the Republic of Korea (ROK), on 17 December, the date

of the presidential inauguration. The ROK Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the National Police Bureau are

investigating the plot uncovered by the ROK CIA which holds a

recording of a conversation between two individuals in which

the planned assassination was discussed. No decision has as yet

been reached on whether"the two individuals will be arrested at

this time.

(TDCS-3/567;099,10 December 1963 CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN)

2.

The

• Army units in the

alert on 1l and 12 December and a

area were placed on

radio

net was ordered to maintain a continuous 24-hour watch.

_net, used by

received its watch orders on.

12 December from the

Very urgent messages from the

and. the

to various

subordinate. anits

declared

(2/x/0/ R07-63, 1221152)

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

Page 1

(2039 - 13 December 1963)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET DINA.:

NSASCC OPSUM # 2039 (Cont' d)

B1 Comment:

The above actions probably portend some kind of forth-

comino controversial official statement. On 4 October wher

requested that a state of

be declared, the Army

declared situations

CAMBODIA

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

3.

Prince SIHANOUk is highly incensed"with the U.s

Government according to a

report of 12. December

out of.L

_He has drafted a stinging

reply to the American Ambassador's protest over official celebra-

tion by the Cambodian Government of Marshall SARIT's death, which

by implication was linked, to that of president KENNEDY. SIHANOUK

also intends to break off U.s./ Cambodian negotiations over the

termination of economic and military aid, giving AID and MAAG

personnel five days to'leave Cambodia, withdraw Cambodian Ambassador

NONG KIMNY from Washington, and abandon his proposal for a

conference to guarantee Cambodian neutrality and independence.

(TDCS-3/567,264, 12 December 1963 NOFOR: 3/01 1215-63: 1215232)

B2 Comment: SIHANOUK carried. out one of the above intentions on

11 December, when the Cambodian. Foreign Ministry instructed NONG

KIMNY to immediately return all'.but one.of the embassy personnel.

NONG KIMNY is to leave on the next ship,while the one member of

the embassy being left behind to handle Cambodian students will

stay at the Ambassador's residence while the Chancellery is put

up for rent. It was stated, however;. that the withdrawal of

embassy personnel was not to be interpreted at a breach in dip-

lomatic relations with the u.s.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2YDXi)|

CHINESE COMMUNIST

4.

The British Military Attache in New Delhi has received

reports that the Chinese Communists have pulled back

from the Sino-Indian Border,. and the

continues to send indications of "quiet"

A return

to more routine communications within the

REgiOn

Page 2

(2039 - 13 December 1963)

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

