# 144-10001-10351_docid_6782960_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4269379

FOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10351

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

3/0/

ORIGINATOR

: NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2X(DXi)

''' TITLE':"""*

YT1360-63 PRESS COMMENT ON KENNEDY'S DEATH AND JOHNSON'S ACCES

AlE : 11/22/6.

PAGES

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

Doc Ref ID: A4269379

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS J-0385

3/01

/T1360-63

IS 22. Dec 62

Dist :: HCO

ST 280

PRESS COMMENT ON KENNEDY'S DEATH AND JOHNSON'S ACCESSION TO

PRESIDENCY

27 Nov 63

MSg Nr:

00 ∞

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2(Di)

38.

The incident of the killing of the. United States President

KENNEDY caused great indignation and grief in Finland. A sort

of period of national nourning was established in Helsinki with

flags lowered to half-mast everywhere. On the 25ch of the

month in the city of 13 gr G/Ml, a.Mass was arranged in which the

President of the Republic will also participate.

All means of

publication are discussing the exceptional personality of KENNEDY

and his service to humanity and peace.

The press, taking up the personality of i. JOHNSCN who

ROCSEVELT and went so

Australia and New Zealand as his special rapresentative during

the war; that he was one of those who defended the Il gr Ul at

the time.

The press added that, although he has great influence

especially in internal politics and in the party, his

experience in the natter of foreign policy expanded-by his trips

after 1961; that following the Moscow agreement, he made a

statement to the

effect that he saw the possibility of nuclear-free

zones [1 gr Mi created; that, however, he supported, the idea

that the cold war will continue; and that in 1959 KHRUSHCHEV

I1 gr Gied to him stating, "(B val I am not) acquainted with you

but I have read all your ll gr Mis and I did not [2 'gr G/U]

at all.

3/0/

T1360-63

: THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Doc Ref ID: A4269379

-TOP SECRET DINAR

3/0/1

T1360-63

As was submitted during his visit to Helsinki several months

ago, the impression which he

left as a statesman f1 gr G] is.

negative.

Some of the opinions expressed in official and political

circles are as follows: the incident of the death of the presi-

dent is of a nature to alter conditions of domestic policy;

in spite of the, certainty of KENNEDY's Democratic Party candidacy

in the future elections, now the party will be the scene of a

great dispute; however, frem the struggle between the (1 grU]

and liberal wings of the [1 gr G] party, it can'be expected that

NIXON will be the victor.

The primary poiht which these circles (1 gr U] upon is

that the incident of the sudden withdrawal from the scene of

KENNEDY whose perscnality was forcefully felt in east-west

(B val relations) which, are taking a favorable, direction despite

the [1 gr G] deviations racently, [1 g= G; destructive reactions

on these relations.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

MS

36

CN

TI 27 Nov 63

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

