# 144-10001-10180_docid_6781304_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4269452

DATE: 10/05/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER :

144-10001-10180

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO : FBI, KERNS

DANIEL SILVER, GC

TITLE

GC/335/78 REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

DATE

09/07/78

PAGES

:

9

SUBJECTS :

KNOWLEDGE OF DAVID CHRISTENSEN IN JFK ASSASS

HANDWRITTEN LETTER FROM CHRISTENSEN AND TYPE TRANSLATION

DOCUMENT. TYPE:

MEMORANDUM, LETTER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Doe Ref ID:* A4269452

FDEN

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: GC/335/78

7 September 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ATTN: Mr. Arthur Kerns,. Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Reguest for Information

1.

Attached is correspondence which Lt Col Paul T. Fisher,

Chief, Security Police, U.S. Air Force Security Service, has re-

quested this Agency to bring to the attention of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation.

The materials consist of a letter written by one

David Christensen, a former U.S. Air Force Security Service member,

to a former colleague of Mr. Christensen's who passed it on to the

Air Force Security Service.

Also enclosed is Lt Col. Fisher's cover

letter to Mr. James Leer of this Agency.

Finally, since the photo-

copy of Mr. Christensen's handwritten letter is difficult to read,

a typewritten copy

has been prepared for your convenience.

2.

The classification markings on the handwritten letter

were applied by the Air Force Security Service.

The typewritten

version has been classified CONFIDENTIAL HVCCO, the highest level

affixed to the handwritten letter.

3.

Should you feel it appropriate to disseminate the enclosed

materials to any Committee of the Congress, I would ask that you do

so only to members or to staffers who have appropriate SI clear-

ances.

The information contained in Mr. Christensen's letter

that the Air Force Security Service was intercepting

international

commercial communications at Kirknewton, Scotland during 1963 is

correct, as is the assertion that that station monitored communi-

cations

links between Lisbon and other parts of the world.

NIEL

SILVE

General Counsel

3 Encls:

a/s

CONFIDRNTA

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

Citania: E9 DISSA/CHOSS (NSA/CSSM 1282)

---

## Page 3

111-

Doc Ref ID! A4269452

13 PA:

031 1321811012

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

HEADQUANTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE SECURITY SERVICE

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78243

2 JUN 173

DirNSA/M5 (Mr Lear)

Ft George G Meade, MD 20755 •

Dear Jim

I am forwarding a letter from a former Security Service member to you.

It was furnished to us by the recipient, through his commander, at one

of our subordinate units.

After realizing the implications, true or otherwise, we immediately

notified our unit commander to turn it over to the OSI in Florida,

believing they would contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation,

since the writer is a civilian now.

Yesterday, this office was contacted by an OSI agent at Lowry AFB, CO;

this agent happens to be an ex-Security Service man.

by his headquarters to interview the writer of the letter to determine

the names of other individuals he had contacted.

sen has a long history of alcoholism, family problems and now wants to

see a "cleared psychiatrist" as he attributes all of his problems from

Oct 1963, per the OSI agent. In addition, he has indicated to the OSI

that he now fears for his life.

I am furnishing this to you as I feel the implication in the letter

should best be handled at the national level and that you are in the

best position to contact the Bureau.

I have no knowledge that os1 has

not done this, but in view of the fact the subject was interviewed as

a civilian by an AF agent, rather than an FBI agent, leads me to doubt

this.

In addition, you are in a much better position to determine where

the nearest psychiatrist, with access, is located. For your information,

we placed the classification markings on the letter.

We were told by Mr. Coombs, the OSI agent at OSI District 14, that the

doctor to contact at the VA hospital in Cheyenne, WY is a Dr Sedel,

commercial telephone number 778-7550, extension 273.

warm regards

PAUL

T.

FISHER, It Col, USAF

Chief, Sécurity Police

BRAM REL

UNET

1 Atch

Ltr (Christensen) (C-HVCCO)

CLASSIFIED BY DOD Dir S-5200.17 (M-2)

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHE GULE OF EXECUTIVE QRDER 11652

EXEMPTION CATEGORY

sEr oN naticatton ty originator.

DECLARACY AMET ATCH ARE REMONIO. AND DECIAL HANDLINE

CAPA:T IS PAISICALLY RAMOVED.

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref ID: A4269452

O dTCkristenses

V A. Itispantal

thwDan 904.82801

srick

aell furiss gsanod

Ginall

p.utiun

ihuehont Eunt, auts bies

a lang tinnso

inite Jeenlaniest

кил

1/201

canle

rch cinelitt

clil Pudt to

pl gaua adlelina

fromn

Мамлр ник

Dapos

Prick, whaleno

happarrinl tà

kyt Prtepcof

geeis

tarine his

uidus ataiet

Fpele

mention Liis

reetress.

tho heet

- Kaud

dum?i

ricrey

aada ninis fet

on penen te id ny la

slattano

rei fürrdan

Pluarsenn deoraisyin

t keleteny

---

## Page 5

Doc Ref DiA4269452

won arking with the net,

the heft s

The lite guy.

What chin gout

as dont get all shit.

shark

I've done chachd

Positions

те м

sent

Jove

Lift torchant uter

al priche

сира

peeche

they ac

no, snort

wirel cero

SHITE:

---

## Page 6

Doc RefiD: A4269462

FEET BEL

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

cashier branch

20701

сита

that gna, se fuel

the for pratio

chun

The is hone the 203" says

I should be

сома

get as sunnie

The dias Lesh

unal that thes

By an

авті по 2263.

Meteorgi.

a practice mine

and airs

Dietian

3/42,

el us nut her the pantin

with

Peter yesud

-6.14

1797

Cal 144

2A773

COMINT CHI

---

## Page 7

Dọc ReCID: A 4269452

NINO

Duan

1/3 чи

13 aver

ниск

I trime

fool

ene sister

you best no do real gore shouted

he able to 13 si there poord ningh.

bad to mri

nonet in Benz a mista

Chao cheese

Pras tua

MaNager do ACCEED

s tres

---

## Page 8

Dac Rer ID: A4269452

When an the hell are yue

corny

an fluke, any hole?

Be bone to put emphases in

ye hillari

not ou

the intimate t

-210

4K on sign

you stel buddy bion.

the bikl, Ba

David 7 Chiatinsin

INCI ASSIFIED

---

## Page 9

DOC ROT I A 269452

CONFIDENDAL

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

David F. Christiansen

V.A. Hospital

Sheridan, WY

82801

Nick,

Well after 13 1/2 years I finally found out your whereabouts, Dam, its

been a long time since Kirknewton, Scotland, and the beer we drank on the

beach

and the club. Had to get your address from the outfit in Texas.

Nick, whatever happened to Sgt Prater? If you know his whereabouts please

send

me his address.

How in the hell have you been doing?

Nick, I- had a nervous breakdown. Plus in 74 my leg shattered in over a

hundred places. Things have really gone to hell for me. I'm working with

the vets benefits counseler, who is a ex 203.

Speaking of 203's where the hell

is Frenchy?

• You know the little guy.

What I'm going to say is no longer

classified, so don't get all shit shook. I've done checked it out.

Christ, 'you remember the position I worked at, in Sgt Praters section, don't

you?

You remember

about a month or 6 weeks before I left Scotland, when I picked

up a link mentioning the assassination of President Kennedy. How hard I tried

to get it sent out, and because of that fuckin Forney and Delaughter they wouldn't

send it to NSA. Since I have learned that the man's name, most mentioned was

number 4 in a certain branch of organized crime at the time. Was number 2 last

year.

I will send you a form for proof of claim. This guy here "the 203" says

I should be getting a service connected disability for my nerves. The "link was"

Lisbon

you remember. How I got my ass chewed for not dropping the

link.

Have learned that this branch of crime often will put out a feeler of

forthcoming things. By sending it as a practice message.

Nick it really broke me up after Nov. 22, 63. Especially when I had it all

before hand. It was first like the 202's said, Ha. I was nuts when the Russians

first came out with the ITI & B's. Later proved them wrong didn't I. That was

another first for us as

I recall.

Duane Bruntz from Baker trick put up a good

support of my claim.

I'm sending you this certified so to make sure you get it.

As I recall you should be able to B.S. them good enough to help me. I know it

ole to 704, them good

cost me a divorce and every thing from my wife. Christ, you remember Marlene,

don't you? That good looking little 1/2 Indian girl from N. Dak. Nick when

you get this form send it back to me and I'll let the vets benefits guy to send

it in. Being a M.Sgt I think you know how to bull shit pretty good. Also do

you know Sgt Harley and Sgt Willy Hendrickson's address. I guess old Garnett K.

Tatum retired. Wonder what gehto, he is living in, Ha!

Classified by OIniNGA/CHCOS (NSA/CS568 223-2;

Exempt from CDS, EO 11652, Cot ---

Mansity Upon Notification ky the Originator

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHA

INNELS ONLY

•ONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

Dọc Rel 10P 7269452

• CONFIDENTIAL

What in the hell are you doing in Florida, any how? Be sure to put

emphasis on my nerves going to hell and not giving a shit about my work after

the interception of the message.

Y Y Prosign

Your old buddy from the Berkely Bar.

David F. Christensen

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

