‘Doc Ref ID: A4269428

Date: 12/09/97
Pace:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10162
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM :

JAROLD PARISH ERT
JOUSE ASSASSINATION COMMITTEE
TITLE :
RESPONSE TO CONGRESSIONAL QUERY
DATE : 01/02/79
PAGES : 2
BJECTS :
{RrERCEPT Sica KIRKNEWTON, SCOTLAND 3253
COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC PASSING BETWEEN SOVIET UNION & CUBA RT
DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
mates Ic CATION is
RESTR ICTIONS : 1A, 1B
RRENT STATUS : X

cul
DATE OF PAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From: — NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR"

+ Date of source: 3 Sep 91



Doc Bef ID: A4269428
‘

02 January 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Subject: Response to Congressional Query

1. On 9 November 1978, G8 began a search for material to answer an inquiry
by the House Assassinations Committee referred to us by NSA's Legislative Affairs
Office (LAO). An individual assigned to the USAFSS intercept station in Kirknewton,
Scotland (USA-55) in 1963 reportedly intercepted an message containing informa-
tion relative to an assassination plot against President.John F. Kennedy. He claims
he intercepted this message, but was not allowed to disséminate the content. The
Committee is seeking to determine if this intercept actuakly occurred and has asked
NSA to check product and files for pertinent intercept and’, sreporting from USA-55 during
1963.

2. Though it seems unlikely that such a message ever éxisted, the following
actions have been taken in response to the House Committee request:

a. A records check was conducted in concert with N33 (Mr. Carrol Baldwin).
{There was no material which was identified in the records index as relevant; however,
there were three boxes of material dated 1963 containing unidentified material. These

three boxes were opened and were found to contain the following: 44 USC 2107(5)(q)(2\(D)(

1) Two boxes contained audio tapes with accompanysng gists ant Togs
from USASA intercept sites along the German/ Czechoslovakia boxer (USM-42 sifes).
The intercept was identified as lcOmmunicationsy, dated
1961. = i :

2) The other box contained +3° Fi :
between the Soviet Union and Cuba. This material’ was largely from the Naval: Security

Group Activity at Sabena Seca, Puerto a -Aise-19) and was,‘dated in 1962. .

b. A few personnel currently tax NSA had experience during 1963 with
intercept policies and procedures at*kirknewton and at NSA. Several of them were
questioned, and recalled that an[*|mission did exist at Kirknewton in the "1963 time-
frame, that all traffic was forwarded to NSA, and that gll reporting of [__Imessages
was done at NSA. s* .

3. On 21 November LAO asked that we also check” ‘those records available labeled
1964, because the 1063 dated boxes contained material from 1962 rather than 1963
Further, we were ‘asked if product for the 1963 perigd was available, if USA-55 material
used in the product could be identified, and how much of an effort would determining
this entail: We have checked the records for 1964,and find no boxes which we feel
should pe examined. The contents of all boxes are clearly identified and none relate
to Pe and there are none whose contents are not identified.

4, As noted earlier the product from[__Jintercept historically has been reported
by NSA. This product is available in T14, but there is no practical way to isolate that
which was derived from USA-55. It is possible to scan 1963 (QOC) product and it is the
[142 estimate that this would require a minimum of four weeks to scan the some 9,900
such products on file for the period from January through November 1963. G8 did not
request a search of these records, pending further word from LAO.

CLASSIFIED BY NSA/CSSM 123-2
REVIEW ON Oct JAW 2009

=

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992



Doc Bef ID: A4269428

5. At this point, G8 feels we have done all reasonable things to locate the

reported intercept with negative results.
ones = Vaal

OLD L. ore

Chief

DISTRIBUTION:

DI/LAO
ADPR
DDO
DDT

G

N3

N33
TLA
T142

