# 144-10001-10127_docid_6782152_sealed

## Page 1

DATE: 01/13/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10127

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : N0078

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE :

NSA

LOWMAN

DAVID

PDASOFÓ (INTEL)

SSCSGO QUERIES

PAGES

AGES : 01/26/76

11

SUBJECTS :

INVESTIGATION, WARREN COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE

MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

11/12/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

anara 8180109

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: N0078

26 January 1976

TOP SECRE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY

OF DEFENSE (INTELLIGENCE)

SUBJECT:

Senate Select Committee Queries to NSA Concerning

the Warren Commission

Reference your letter dated 14 January 1976 transmitting

a request from Mr. Alton Quanbeck of the Senate Select

Committee Staff.

The following information is provided in

response to Mr. Quanbeck's letter, keyed by paragraph to

his

letter (inclosed - see underlined portions).

Most of

the information was made available

to the SSC Staff, Mr.

Jim Johnson, during an interview with Dr. Louis Tordella

on 20 January 1976.

Para. 1. - NSA requested permission to retain

photocopies of those reports on which we had worked merely

as record copies of our efforts on behalf of the Commission.

It was felt that if a question should arise at that time

concerning what analytic efforts had been involved and the

number of manhours expended, a record copy would prove useful.

No operational use was made

of these documents except to

hold them on file for a period of time which cannot now be

determined. To the best of our present knowledge, the photo-

copies have now been destroyed.

Absolutely no results

relevant to the assassination were obtained through NSA's

analytic look at the exhibits.

The Commission, in the person

of Mr. Allan Dulles, had asked Dr. Tordella, informally, to

review the exhibits for any secret writing or codes which.

might have

been contained in the documents.

DI. Tordella,

after causing 'a careful review of the documents by NSA crypt-

analysts, reported verbally to Mr. Dulles and other Commission

members that nothing whatsoever had been achieved by the

analytic effort. No written reply was submitted.

Released on

08-12-2022 under

the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination

Records Act of

1992

Glassined by DiRNGA/C203S (MSA/053M 1222)

Exempt from 625, ED 11032, Got --

Declassity Upon Mollication by tha

Originator

TOP SECRE

APPENDED DOCUMENTS CONTAIN

CODEWORD MATERIAL

MADE MA COUNT CECOND ANEM

---

## Page 3

23220

2r0:8

Serial: N0078

Para. 2. - NSA is uncertain as to what is precisely

meant by these comments, but we assume that the comments on

names refer to our biographic files which are maintained on

foreign personalities of potential intelligence significance.

As the Committee knows, these biographic files are maintained

(now at CIA incidentally) as analytic support. It is also

possible that the Commission was referring to the fact that

names are frequently seen in traffic collected for foreign

intelligence purposes and therefore NSA might have access

to foreign names not otherwise available to the Intelligence

Community.

Para. 3. - It may well be that CIA did obtain such

transmissions and pass them to NSA for analysis, but no one

presently working that analytic area recalls such a request.

Discussions with Dr. Tordella also failed to shed any light

on this subject.

There are no files or records which we have

been able to locate from that time frame which would sub-

stantiate such a claim. In fact, the only file the responsible

analytic group has been able to locate concerning a request

from the Warren Commission deals with a file compiled from

open sources citing major dates in the last months of Oswald's

life.

Presumably the date file was to be compared with NSA

product on/about the key dates in the hope that something

could be deduced. The file does not contain any "hits."

The analysts who performed this effort have since retired.

Para. 4. - The informal request from Mr. Dulles is

the known total extent of NSA's role in assisting in the

file thus far recovered. There is no information which can

transmissions relating to the assassination.

Para. 5. - We have no information on this subject

at all.

However, pursuant to the subject raised during the

Tordella interview, we have searched our files manually,

and as Mr. Lowman agreed during the Tordella interview,

we

have recovered three product reports (Inclosures 2 through

4) which show that Cuban military forces did go on alert

immediately after the assassination.

There is no SIGINT

evidence, however, that the Cuban forces were alerted prior

to the assassination, thereby suggesting that they had prior

knowledge of the event.

2

TOP

SHA PURE F. MRA CURE 382E

---

## Page 4

Serial: N0078

Para. 6. - No hard copy material of any kind was

provided to the Commission (see Para. 1) •

DAVID D. LOWMAN

Special Assistant

to the Director

for Congressional Reviews

4 Incls:

a/s

HANDLE VIA

3

Utteranas

---

## Page 5

CC :

2/01

Serial: N0078

DIR

D/DIR

(Less. Incls)

"

ESS

ESS/R

ESS, Mr. Lowman

G, Mr.

Peksa

NCRDEF

A, Miss Caracristi (Less Incls)

L221

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

....

3, 2/01

4are product reports numbered

R196-63 and 2/0/ R58-63.

fun at tostor/0/85/31070786 Jan 787X75

---

## Page 6

REFERRED TO

OFFICE

TOP SECRET

CONTROL NO.

20°

RECEIVED

SIGNATURE

DATE

TIME

R2132

RELEASED

SEEN BY

IDATE TIME

NAME & OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

Handle Via Indicated Controls

COMINT

Access to this document will be restricted to those persons

cleared for the specific projects;

WARNING

This document contoins information affecting the national security of the United Slates within the meaning of

the espionoge lows U. S. Code Title 18,

Sections 793, 794 and 798. The law prohibits its transmission or the

revelation of ils contents in ony manner lo an unauthorized person, as well os its use in ony manner prejudicial

to the

safely or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government lo the detriment of

the United Stoles.

It is to be seen only by personnel especially indoctrinaled and authorized to reccive in-

formation in the designated control channels. Iis security nust be maintained in accordance with regulations

pertaining to the BY EMAN and Communications Intelligence Controls.

No action is to be laken on any com•

munications intelligence which may be contained herein, regardless of the advontage to be gained, il such

oction

might hove the effect of revealing the existence and nolure of the source, unless such oction is first

approved by the appropriale authority.

I.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS. VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. MART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR.,

WALTER F. MONDALE, MITA

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, VY.

CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MI

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHÄRD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

0168uu

Minited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES, 21, BATH CONGRESS).

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

January 13, 1976

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

Special Assistant to the Secretary

U. S. Department of Defense

Washington, D. C. 20301

Dear Tom:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation of

the assassination of President Kennedy, we earlier received

answers to certain questions put to NSA.

Since then we have

examined other material pertaining to NSA's contribution to

the Warren Commission's investigation and we desire further in-

formation from NSA.

By way of background for this request, we note the Warren

Commission provided NSA various documents and asked NSA to re-

view them for any cryptological significance. NSA found no

cryptological significance and its report of this fact was pub-

lished by the Commission.

By letter of July 10, 1964, (a copy of which is attached)

Mr. Rankin provided General Blake a copy of certain documents

requested by Dr. Tordella for NSA's files. Since NSA's analysis

of the documents was apparently completed at the time of Rankin's

letter, we wish to know why NSA wanted to keep these documents

for its file. Further, we wish to know what use. lI any, was

made of these documents and what results relevant to the assassina-

tion were obtained from such use.

2.

In a Commission staff internal memorandum, discussing the

documents provided NSA, it is reported that NSA is "primarily

interested in names," and NSA claims it has

"information on names

which the CIA does not have."

Assuming these statements are ac-

curate, we wish to know what significance such names would have _

- HANDLE W

AT CHANNELS

FXIMIT ROM CONTROL DECLASSIFICALON

AUTOMATILALLY DEELASSIFIED ON

Ampissibe to setersne

(unico topussale resert dote or event)

---

## Page 8

Mr. Thomas K. Latimex

January 13, 1976

MAHOU HA CON

Page Two

LO NSA and what information on names NSA had that CIA did not.

If names had significance, what names did NSA use in its analysis?

We are informed that CIA obtained transmissions from the

Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for November or December 1963 and

that it may have passed these to NSA for analysis. Did NSA re-.

ceive these transmissions or any transmissions relevant to the

assassination inquiry?

Did it analyze them?

What were the re-

sults of its analysis? *

4.

We are interested in learning the extent of' NSA's role in

assisting in the investigation of the assassination.

In that

connection, please inform the Committee the extent of NSA files

relating to the assassination. Please provide the staff of the

Committee

access to those files.

Please provide the staff with

a summary of all information NSA developed from Cuban or Soviet

transmissions relating to the assassination.

5. We have been informed that after the assassination the

Cuban government instructed its embassies and consulates to re-

turn all files on Oswald to Cuba.. What information does NSA

have on whether

such instructions were issued?

6. In connection with the answers to questions 4 and 5, please

indicate whether such material

- was provided the Warren Commission

and provide copies of all documents evidencing that fact.

We would appreciate receiving a response to these questions

as possible and to expedite this inquiry we are sending

a copy of this letter to Mr. Foster of NSA.

• Sincerely,

al

Alton H. Quanbeck

CC :

Frank Foster

EXACT MAO CAO! EELUSSIRICATIGN

•-..

one 3r mure)

Impossible to Fetes mine

catast

MAINE DA CONDI CANNES

---

## Page 9

NSA

JLR: RU/ DJC

7/7/64

JUL 1 0 1954

"""

eutenanc General vordon A.

nor, matural sense here ea

Furt George U. licade, Maryland

Dear General Blake:

In regard to Dr. Tordello's request, the National

S curity Agency 19 authoiized to keep for lts file the following

photographic copies üf 1tens which havo been used by the

Commission 1n 1ts investlgat1on:

(1) Conm1ss1on Exh1d1t 31

(2) Curmlesion Exhibit 15

(3) Commission Exhibit 104

(4)

Commission Exhibit 18

(5)

Typeuritten version of Coumission Exhibit 24

(6) F. B. I. Items A-2, A-6

(7): P. B. I. 1tems 137, 152

Thank you for the cooperation and asslatance sou

have rendered tho Conmission.

Sincerels,

SIGNED

J. Lee dankin

General Cuingel

RECT

cc: Mr. Renakin

Mr. Willens

Mr. Mosk

---

## Page 10

Perisdins hemmgey

44 USC 2107 (5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

SECRET KIMBO

Baateplan

26. 23200

K coayt.

Sout

Oxten

19830

1L2 лак!

R187 163)

soter,

(ahen

2/0: V886-53

ra ta boch

xetatus

B9O4A19 3m1

nece

chn to Chiat

1963

10S-6

suborda

Of Peox

ports in

spMang

Sopeast

T/n% tra

Besdguer brrs Fs ta

Fena 23 td 20 Morsai

azndetena voste Krohl

srrind llráng ,hd Lip

tepocrçd to ba o tuan sucalat

vaia ant idinatllul: (2/541

1230463).

orcnn cha eubject

ses cos ic iobnd chode at

ucabimauslcoe

5(2/0

7R105-63)

hovat

sgludited:

Mecenre tho

HGOreN

mrissi atriro

Laconpacion Nus

4д M Toese sousces

trelt

---

## Page 11

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

SECRET KIMBO

2/01

3196-63

25. Nov 63: 18152

DIST: O/UND)

ST 2502

ALICE. IN BASTERN NAVAL DIS

LELET RETARD, 2ZANOVENER

renute or tha denth ot falsident koent, the Raatern

havas enrich of our as placed ion on alart et 20442 ch

22 Novesber by Bunds, headguartors for that dibtrtet.((a)

AS 20372400 23, Rovcabero bo atort up, zelered a cártata

destes by Babes: Esotructions, vero pauged, to Santiago de Caba,

a, subordersto to give teave to 23 percent of their paracmel

for, the 22 cd and 24th and chat, Surther ordess soula be orcheonin

O2:23 Royashes, 1963.1

coment the cutro-lano po to arant, teave to persomello an

/Indicates chat the atert 10 scoobat zelaxed and g

the note chat muches destructions poutd be lesued va

hostages covesbon edicates chapla nonsens Vien

3as been edoned for che alecation by Cibanarval

excoriates in the tastern Sovnt, casceletu

(000) (2/1301L Paт-63. 2105/

0663/8656, 2507-53).

3:44 8м

Inil3

---

## Page 12

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

CANT

SECRET KIMBO

2/01 7R58-63

26 No 63 20192

DIST: 0/WA

ST 250/

ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMINATED

The alert in Oriente Province (see 2/0< (R196-63) 16 be-

lieved to be teraigated. The alert; apparently prompted by

President KENNEDY's death on 22 November, was possibly pre-

schrduled to terminate on 25 Movesker. There have been two orders

which suggest that the alert was destined to be concluded on

25 November; they are:

... 1)

Access to the Coastal Observation Post at punta

Maisi (20-15N 74-057) was testricted until 25 November because

of the alert (see 2/QS/

(8667-63); and

2) Subordinates of Banesy Headquarters Pastem Näval

District, were to receive further irders on

the 25th, presemably

corceming thelf-alert status (210L Jn196-63); no such orders

have been noted in conications,

There have been no further references in intercepted communi-

cations to the alert sinca 02222 on 23 Novenber (2/QS/L

(R667-63) •

It is possible that the restticted access to the Observation

Post at Purta Malsi extends to other Observation Posts in Oriente

Province such as reported on 23 Novecher when Plist Army Coastal*

Observation Posts were placed In an alert status

121:211

8138-63), aud that the restriction was to be lifted on

23 lovember by all those posts.

Further indicarion that the alert has teminated is the fact

that the Cuban Navy was engaged in an islard wide communications

exercise on 25 Nortober.

It is considered unlikely that such an

exercise would be cunducted unier alert conditions.

There hasn been no furtier references to the alort status

first ob-

GENT

FiNg

perlod, 22-26 lovealer 1963.

Irely

---

