Doc Ref ID: A4268763
: : ta ee
AGE:
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :
RECORDS SERIES :

~10001-10134

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : INMAN, B. R
SIEMER, G. C
TITLE :
REQUESTS
DATE : 01/05/78
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
CUBA RE
DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : ——
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93
PENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS :

CONTAINS SENS TEV EC OMBARTHENTER —INFORMAFEON—

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)


Released on 10: 17 under the John F. Kennedy Assassin:

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE
FORT GEORGE G, MZADE, MARYLAND 20758

Serial: noois '
5 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HONORABLE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

4
3 e

DEANNE SIEMER, GENERAL COUNSEL,

SUBJECT: Pending Congressional Requests =

REFERENCES: (a) 15 December 1977 letter from Senator George
McGovern to Secretary of Defense —

(b) Undated letter received on 20 December 1977
from Congressman Louis Stokes to Director, NSA

(c) 16 December 1977 letter from mr. Ira Nordlicht
to the Honorable Deanne Siemer

traditional
s . if it is to be Provided,
how it is to be done. “nga Charter legislation, now in draft form,

community.

2. We anticipate that requests for information, as illus-
trated by the three referenced letters, will continue to increase
and can present difficulties in maintaining good relations with
the Congress. While this Agency has been fully responsive to
the needs of the Intelligence, Armed Services, and Appropriations
Committees; we have treated réquests. for information by other
committees on a purely case-by-case basis. . Several times during
the past two years, Committees -of the Congress which do not have
jurisdiction for intelligence’ oversight have approached NSA

background information in assisting that committee in formulating
U.S. policy matters. on these infrequent Occasions, NSA has
responded directly to the requesting committee providing either
access to SIGINT product or briefings, as required.

ArCHCSS crsaressee tay9y DOWNGRADE: TO CONFIDENTIAL
£11882, Oa 4 HVCCO UPON REMOVAL OF INCL

* By tbe Ortginetog _™y

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)



Doc Ref ID: A4268763 ~~

ig &
Serial: woo1s

garding these three specific requests, inclosed for
your information is a summary of NSA's contacts with Senator
McGovern's Subcommittee, on International Operations. As indi-
cated in the summary and as discussed previously with Mr. Andrews
of your staff, we have not shown nor discussed any material with
Senator McGovern's staff representative pending the drafting of
an approved memorandum of understanding by your office and the
execution of such an MOU between the Executive Branch and the
Senator. fj
- &

4. In his letter received by NSA on 20-December, Representa-—
tive Louis Stokes, Chairman of the House Select. Committee on
Assassinations, requested certain information from NSA relating
to the Cuban intelligence network during the period 1959 - 1964.
Chairman Stokes also certified that access to any NSA material
would be restricted to those staff members with a TOP SECRET
security clearance; access to NSA material, of course, requires
indoctrination for SI as well. No response has been made to
Chairman Stokes' correspondence pending resolution of how NSA
should deal with non-oversight committees. Once that decision
is made, we recommend that any SIGINT information selected for
the Select Committee on Assassinations be provided only by the
DoD or DCI as part of a larger submission of data and that the
SIGINT be properly sanitized.

5. Mr. Ira Nordlicht's 16 December letter to you requested
information from NSA on the flow of oil to South Africa and
Rhodesia. At the time.of his initial telephone’call, Mr. Nordlicht
had a TOP SECRET clearance. It is our understanding that he has
since been indoctrinated for SI/TK by DIA. While any SIGINT

‘pertinent to. Mr. Nordlicht's request may contain unique informa-

tion, it must be emphasized that SIGINT alone may be incomplete
or misleading unless it is examined in the context of all-source
intelligence information. In this instance, .after the execution
of a suitable MOU, we recommend the requested information be
furnished by the DCI combining the SIGINT with other materials
available to him. You may recall that earlier this year the

:Senate Subcommittee on Foreign Economic Policy requested and was

provided information on Arab foreign investments and the lifting
and sale of Saudi and Iranian.oil.. This is the information which
was provided specifically to. Mr. Jerome Levinson, then counsel

of the Subcommittee, and which subsequently formed the basis for
a 20 June 1977 letter from Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the
Subcommittee, to the Secretary of State citing "...a substantial
discrepancy between CIA and NSA estimates of Saudi crude oil
exports in the first quarter of 1977." This charge was repeated



Doc Ref ID: A42687!

7 Serial: NOO1S

by Mr. Levinson in an article by Seymour M.

Hersh appearing
in the New York Times of December 25, 1977.

Mr. Nordlicht
t related to the previous

agreed Procedure for a
than the three traditior
has Severely hampered
We urgently recon:
‘between the Executive a

et forth the terms and condi-

tions on which sensitive cryptologic or other
information would be provided to the non-over.
In the absence of such an agreement wi
Relations Committee and the House §
tions, we cannot respond to, these g
that your office SO advise Congress:
and also determine a Proper respon
consistent with the President's i

intelligence
sight committee
th both the Senate For

n Stokes and Mr. x
to Senator McGovern
uctions.

tn

\ INMAN

Vice Admiral, vu. S. Navy
Director, NSA/Chief, css

Incl: 7

a/s

Copy Furnished:
Col. Stephen Harrick
OASD (LA) F



e PERE E EEE ©

Doc Ref ID: A4268763

Serial: NOO1S

ce: DIR Vv

D/DIR G

DDO EX REG
Exec DDO L221
ADLA NCRDEF
ul ;

v2 Di

M/R: a. On 17 May 1977, the Director Proposed in a memo:
to the DCI that the DCI assume responsibility for acting as the
focal point for requests for intelligence information £
Committee of the Congress which does not have direct: ove gh
responsibilities. This Proposal included the recommendation
that the channel of communications for such requests should
be through a designated individual on the IC Staff ana that
responses to the Congress should flow back through the same
person, providing the DCI, on behalf of the President, the oppor-
tunity to review what intelligence information is made
to the Congress. The pcr has never responded to this mem

randum

b. Instant memo
developed between the

cryptologic or other intelligence information would be provided
to the non-oversight committees, It also recommends osp GC
assume action on R/S 5507 and provides background information
on two Congressional requests (references a and c) for SIGINT
information. now pending in osp.

c. Deadline on R/S 5507 response to Ms. Siemer extended
to 4 January per Col. Steve Harrick, ATSD(LA), and Mr. Bob
Andrews, OSD (GC). :

ad. Mr. Yeates, Exec DDO, and Mr. Brady, GC, concur.
Classification reviewed by Mr. Michael Levin, D4.

( 4 /

i y y

vrles ; So 1h Cee

JULIA|wErzEr, 02, 3¥6ls, 4 Jan-78, bj
:

Pog aa,

Tao

