DATE: 03/26/97
Pace: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10090
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : Ne
FROM : Ne

TITLE :
3/0 T1659-63: MEXICO’S APPEAL RECEIVED TOO LATE; PRISONER EXECUTE [RI]

PAGES : 1's...
enRIEEHS 4 USC 21076)(gN2DV0)
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES “TR
MEXICO, DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY IR
DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : “T-
« RESTRICTIONS : 1B
URRENT STATUS | X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 68/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY’S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

Released on 08-05-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992



Mexican WS 15528 3/0 1659-63
: Is 02 Dee 18452 P
., Dist: HOF

oe ST 300:

MEXICO'S APPEAL RECEIVED ‘foo LATE; PRISONER EXECUTED FOR ATTEMPT
AGAINST CASTRO + :

fe 27 Nov 63,
Msg Nr: 887 :
With reference to your os Nr. 52135((A)) :
ar dated 23 August 1963, and my message Ne. “B22 ((B) ), dated

6 November 1963, I report that I presented -a second plea in
the case of CARLOS ESPIN[XU] Y ESCALES((C)) om the same -day
that his sentence was pronounced.

The plea was submitted by Dr. RAUL ROA -” “cuban Foreign
Minister, to President DORTICOS, who told Dr.: ROA to inform me
that on that same day he [ESCALES ] had been executed, béfore
Cuba knew about Mexico's note. In any event, ithe sentefice of
capital punishment would not have been, ‘commuted, becaus® he was
one of the principal persons responsible for an attempt:against
the life of the Prime Minister, Dr. FIDEL CASTRO, a
((A)) Available if required. “| w/s 14983, dated P| August

1963. Text similar to that contained in 3/0f_71204- 63.)
((B)) Not available.
((C)) “Not identified. :

MS 19 CN TI 28 Nov of

Mexican 3 sof —r1659-63

Released on 08-05-2022
under the John F.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)
Kennedy Assassination

