Doc Ref ID: A4269451
DATE: 40/05/98
Pace:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10179
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORTEINATOR : NSA
FeOH : YEATES, LAO

TITLE :
8 NOVEMBER MTG W/MR. BLAKEY

oz

DATE : 11/10/78
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS :
MR. CHRISTENSEN'S KNOWLEDGE OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT
MENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSTEYCATION fe
RES TRI CTIONS : a 1B
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF Past REVIEW : §9/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


Doc Ref ID: A4269451

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: 8 November Meeting with Mr. Blakey

1. On 8 November, Ed Sapp visited Mr. Robert G. Blakey,
Chief Counsel and Staff Director for the House Select Committee
on Assassinations, to receive questions concerning a former
Air Force enlisted man's allegation that he had intercepted
information linking an assassination plot against President Kennedy
with a figure in organized crime. Mr. Blakey had been referred to
NSA (GC, Dan Silver) by Ms. Judy Miller, Special Assistant to
John Kester, OSD.

2. Mr. Blakey indicated that David F.. Christensen had
communicated with a friend of his named Sgt Michael B. Stevensen
at "Corry" Field, Florida. Mr. Christensen has been committed to
a mental institution due, he asserts, to pressures arising from
an incident occurring in 1963.

3. At that time, Christensen was in the Air Force assigned
to Kirknewton, Scotland. Sometime before November, 1963, in his
work as an interceptor of international commercial communications,
he intercepted the communications referred in paragraph 1. Mr. Blakey
stated that he did not know who the crime figure is. Christensen's
supervisor, Sgt Praeter (actually "Prater") refused to send this
traffic to NSA and this, he alleges, eventually caused him to have
a mental breakdown.

4, Mr. Blakey stated that NSA had already acknowledged the
existence of such a facility during this period, but he didn't
indicate to whom such a statement had been made.

5. Mr. Blakey posed the following questions for NSA:

(a) What is NSA's capability for retrieving communications
from this time and place?

(b) How quickly can we make this retrieval?
(His Committee completes its work in December. If
NSA can easily provide the answers to a number of
questions, he will do some preliminary investigation
before formally requesting the information, but if
we indicate that much time will be required, he will
task us now)

(c) What additional information does NSA need from Mr.
Blakey to speed the retrieval process?

(d) Is the data still available for retrieval?

Released on 03-28-2022
under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination
Records Act of 1992



Doc Ref ID: A4269451

(e) Was Christensen really employed by the Air Force,
working for Praeter (Prater), and actually doing this kind of work
at that location during that period?

6. He asked for the responses, or at least, a status of what
can be provided and how soon, by Monday, 13 November.

7. On 7 September, the General Counsel sent a copy of David
Christensen's letter to the FBI (GC/335/78), along with a letter
from AF Security Service (to which Sgt Stevensen had sent the letter).
In the General Counsel's letter he noted that Security Service was
intercepting international commercial communications at Kirknewton
in 1963 and that links between Lisbon and other parts of the world
were monitored.

8. On 9 November, Ed and I met with Dan Silver and decided
Dan should respond initially to Mr. Blakey's questions by phone.
After coordinating with EXEC/DDO, Ed asked G9 to provide input
for a response.

9. Harold Parrish (5649) of G809 conducted an initial review
of the availability of data from USA-SS covering the first eleven
months of 1963. From a computer file listing maintained by N3, 20 boxes
of data were identified. Cross-checking assures that this is all and
the contents column helped eliminate 17 of the boxes. The remaining
three wil be manually reviewed on 13 November. If they, in fact, do
contain traffic-there will be some 2000 sheets per box.

10. I notified DevimiimbniGtminaeeceinbed Mr. Blakey on the news,

phe ett iS bral S pat our abjly me wn Hire,
to ho ee Ase +f en ti Ha ag iT Satan to .
=.
EUGENE F. YEATES
Chief
Legislative Affairs



Doc Ref ID: 44269451 r )

[hed Tope
pre Ae 0 forte


Roc Ref W-Raaass e : e@

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
JOHN G. KESTER,
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
AND
G. ROBERT BLAKEY,
CHIEF COUNSEL AND DIRECTOR TO
THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

1. This Memorandum of Understanding shall govern: the pro-
tection of classified information of the Department of Defense

relating to the investigation of the House Sele t, Co

in

mmitte
‘ fw
Assassinations (Committee) into the allegations)of involvement

by the Government of Cuba in the assassination of President
John F. Kennedy. For such purpose, the Department of Defense
will make — available for an interview by a desig-
nated member of the Committee Staff at a time of mutual. conven-
ience but not later than 22 November 1978.

2. The interview will be conducted in secure spaces which
are authorized for the discussion of classified signals intelli-
gence information.

3... The interview will be limitea in scope to the substan-
tive content of the allegations of » Informa-
tion which deals with intelligence sources and methods will not
be used in responding to questions.

4. The Committee agrees, for itself and on behalf of the
person designated by the Committee to conduct the interview, not

to disclose any classified information which is:revealed in the


ae

Doc Rett: A4269451 e e

course of the interview without the prior written concurrence

of the Department of Defense. A representative of the Depart-
ment will attend the briefing and advise the Committee represen-
tative as to information that is classified.

5. The Committee's designee who conducts the interview may
‘make a recording or transcript of the interview and written
notes of the responses of to the Committee's ques-
tions. The Committee agrees that any such notes may be inspected
by the Department's representative prior to removal from the
interview room, and any classified information which is contained
in.the notes shall be deleted prior to their removal. If any
classified information is contained in the notes, the original
version shall be maintained in the Office of the Special Assistant
to the Secretary. of Defense, and the Committee may have access to
those notes as needed, Any recording or transcript of the inter-
view will be left in the possession of the Department of Defense
for a review to determine its classification. If. the transcript
or recording contains classified information, it will remain in
the Department's possession, and the Committee may have acces
to it as needed. .

6. Nothing in the Committee's undertaking affects the
Committee's right to invoke in the future any subpoena power
available to it to secure and disclose the information related to

"s allegations provided, however, that the Committee
will not disclose the information until any related litigation has

been concluded by judicial action that permits disclosure.

2


aot

eat
te Re i

A260

wee
¢ SUSPENSE *
ELASSIFIC ATION

dee ACTION

[p-siowarune Jo-neran |

B- COMMENT

[ecmwiteac « ner [no ronwano

c- CONCURRENSE

F-FILE

=

Linco

ROUTE

| 70 fowref rr | 70 fowref rr

"DATE RCVD:
s
CLASSIFICATION

Auge

|
