# 144-10001-10276_docid_6783270_sealed

## Page 1

SECRET SPOKE MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10276

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE:.

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

..

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USN

FROM

USN- 19

[R]

TO. : DIRNSA

TITLE

ARMED FORCES TO OBSERVE 3 DAYS OF MOURNING IN HONOR OF MEMO

JAIL

AGES: 3/2410

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMENEATIRE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

MoRAt

SECRET STOKE

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

10276

44USC2107 (5) (9) (2) (D)

RR

YEKHDH

DE

• 24/0D46Z NOV

ZKZK RR SZH NSD NRL DE

R 2400452

FM USN 19

TO

DIRNSA

INFO DIRNAVSECGRU

ASSTDIRNEVSECGRU

ZEM

SEGRET SHORE

U

USN-19 TECH PHASING

PART I•

152

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

REPORT NR 66-63

A

Д.

A

, Di: 1

B.+1

D/I

D/ I

& SECRET

U

ARMED FORCES TO OBSERVE 3 DAYS OF MOURNING IN HONOR OF

THE MEMORY OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

This work sheet contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage: Lawsy: Title: 18, U. S. C.,

Sections. 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the revelation of which in any monner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CI AGGIEIED WODK SHEET

THIS EORM ENE INTERNAI AGENCY NISE ANI Y

• MSG

((A)) INTERCEPTED AT

A NATIONAL EXECUTIVE DECREE ORDERED A 3 DAY PERIOD OF MOURNING

THROUGHOUT

WITH THE FLAG FLOWN AT HALF MAST BEGINNING AT

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

10214

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

THE UNITED STATES.

Ш

1(8))

SIMILAR MiSG FROM

U

A D8DD ON 23 NOV 63.

. .

• .

..

TO ALL NAVAL UNITS INTERÇEPTED AI

INFORMED OF THE 3 DAY PERIOD OF MOURNING BEGINNING

÷T

GP-1 SECRET

Dо-1.

Dit.

MS 19

CN

D!.

-

-

D:!:

Dit

D:!-

TI

23 NOV 63

PART II.

CON MOTIVO FLECIEMENTO PDZ ? PDTE ESTADOS UNIDAO AMERICA Y EN

I CUMPOMENTO DECRETO EJECUTIVO NACIONAL MA ES CONLE GUARDAR IRES

CLA

K3) DIL DUELD EIZER. BONDERS & MEDIC ST

P RIIP 2306 00 NOV:

YE

BT

CLASSIFIED

ES

TECH INFO:

This work sheet contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S. (.,

Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

\..

;

---

## Page 4

I GP -1, BEGRES

--

= *

DE".

D:|-

MiS 19 CN

TI

- A

23° NOW:63

¡ PART II.

CON MOTIVO FLECIEMENTO PDZ ? PDTE ESTADOS UNIDÃO AMERICA Y EN

- CUMPOMENTO DECRETO EJECUTIVO NACIONAL AA ES DOMLE GUARDAR TRES

)

(K3) DIL DUELO EIZAR. BONDERS

" MEDI- "ST

P RIIR 23.0600 NOV

YE

BT

R

ES

• TECH INFO:

10216

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

A

This work sheet contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meanin

Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission or the revelation of which in any manner to an unauti

THIS FORM FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE O

CLASSIFIED WORK SHEET

GUTINIGOLE -P-RTIR-239802-48-107 53-K SEEST BLEGE DUELON EI

N L POR ESP CIODE 3 DI SKESTIO LE SUS INSTRUCCIONES FIN

PGELLON N CION L F IZ DO

MEDI DRIZ. K BTK

) TECH INFO:

11908

С:Д,

spionage

Lows, Title

18,

person

is

prohibited

by law.

#U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:

1063-680898

---

