# 144-10001-10236_full release_20171026_ref id a4269481

## Page 1

Dog Ref ID: A4269481

DATE: 09/12/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10236

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : MARK ALLEN

TITLE

REQUEST FOR JFK INFORMATION FROM MARK ALLEN

JATE : 01/28/81

AGES :

SUBJECTS

REQUEST FROM MARK ALLEN - RESPONSE INCLUDED

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

PENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

Doc RefID: A4269481

•SEGRET

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755-6000

Central Intelligence Agency

Mr. Lee S. Strickland

Chief, Information Review Staff

file

1107 Ames Building

Washington, DC 20505

ATTN: Deborah A. Kircher

SERIAL: J9001

28 JAN 1988

1. THIS RESPONDS TO YOUR MEMORANDUM (S) DATED

21 December 1987

2. YOUR MEMORANDUM(S) FORWARDED FOR REVIEW:

DOCUMENT(S) ORIGINATED BY NSA/CSS

CONCERNING A REQUEST FROM

Mark Allen, F81-0351, CA81-2543

DOCUMENT(S) NOT ORIGINATED BY NSA/CSS BUT CONTAINING NSAVOSS INFORMATION

3. ARPORATON MAYBE LES TO

ED TO MAER FORESTENT. TO THE EXEMPTIONS CHECKED BELOW. THE REMAINING NSA/CSS

X 4. THE INFORMATION IS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTIONS CHECKED BELOW.

X 5. 5 U.S.C. 552 (b) (1) - THE INFORMATION IS PROPERLY CLASSIFIED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION

IN SECTION 1-3 OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 12366.

X

6. 5 U.S.C. 552 (b) (3) - THE SPECIFIC STATUTE(S) IS/ARE LISTED BELOW.

50 U.S.C. 402 NOTE (Public Law 86-36, Section 6)

X| 50 U.S.C. 403 (d) (3)

1 18 U.S.C. 798

7. 5 U.S.C. 552.(b) (5)

5 U.S. C.552(b) (6)

8. 5 U.S.C. 552 (b) (7) (C)

5 U.S.C. 552 (b) (7) (D)

9. THE DISCLOSURE THAT THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN YOUR RECORD(S) IS THE RESULT OF SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED

INFORMATION REQUIRES ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PROTECTION AND HANDLING PROCEDURES PLEASE ENSURE THAT, IN ALL

INSTANCES WHERE THE INFORMATION IN YOUR RECORD(S) IS ASSOCIATED WITH THIS AGENCY AS THE ORIGINATOR, OR IN

ANY OTHER WAY REVEALS SENS:TIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION AS THE SOURCE, THE RECORD(S) AND ALL OTHEP.

SUCH INDICATIVE RECORDS IS/ARE AFFORDED THE APPROPRIATE PROTECTION.

X 10. WE DO NOT WISH TO BE PUBLICLY REVEALED AS THE ORIGINATOR OF THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE RECORDIS) AS

THIS IDENTIFICATION IN ITSELF MAY BE A DISCLOSURE OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. IN ADDITION, WE DO NOT WISH TO

PUBLICLY ASSERT OUR EXEMPTIONS PURSUANT TC 18 U.S.C. 798 AND PUBLIC LAW 86-36 SINCE THE USE OF THESE STATUTES

AND ASSOCIATION WITH NSA/CSS COULD REVEAL THAT THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE RECORD(S) WAS DERIVED

FROM SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION SOURCES. THIS REVELATION, TOGETHER WITH THE SPECIFIC DESCRIPTION

BY THE REQUESTER OF THE KINDS OF INFORMATION OR RECORDS SOUGHT, WOULD DISCLOSE CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

ABOUT INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS. THEREFORE, WE WOULD APPRECIATE YOUR RESPONDING DIRECTLY TO THE

REQUESTER ON BEHALF OF, BUT WITHOUT MENTIONING, NSACSS, ASSERTING THE EXEMPTION(S) INDICATED IN PARAGRAPH(S)

11. THE CLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION IN THE ENCLOSED RECORD(S) HAS BEEN CHANGED. PLEASE MARK ALL

COPIES ACCORDINGLY.

12.

ADDITIONAL COMMENTS

See attached

13. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS PLEASE CALL

Rona Lerner

PHONE

Demagrade te

DEATHLAL

688-6527

Sincerely,

Carol Q.Hauelt

for

JULIA B. WETZEL

Director of Policy

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

Declassig On CriginaSig Adunoy o Datomination Require:

---

## Page 3

*Doc Ref ID: A4269481

Serial: J9001

The information highlighted in yellow should be protected

pursuant to the exemptions cited in blocks 5 and 6. As

indicated in block 10; we do not wish to be publicly identified

as the originator of the information or the source of any

redactions.

In citing 5 U.S.C. 552 (b) (3), cite only 50 U.S.C.

403(2) (3).

---

## Page 4

'Doc Ref ID: A4269481

-H3474

Serial: J9001

cc: Q43

Concur U:

PUREs CAT I USA 28 fanã8

M/R:

(s 660) FOIA referral of a document containing a list of

the dates of NSA reports used by the CIA to compile records

pertaining to U.S. defectors to the USSR. The document was

located pursuant to a request for records between the CIA and

the U.S.

House Select Committee on Assassinations relating to

President Kennedy•

(9eC0) The document with the NSA information is not

classified in and of itself. Its association with records

pertaining to the Kennedy assassination is also not classified.

The association with the records pertaining to defectors to the

USSR, however, is classified SECRET-CCO.

We are, therefore,

advising the CIA that the identification of NSA on the document

is to be

redacted pursuant to b(1) and b(3) /403(d) (3). We ask

that CIA

not name NSA as the source of the information or

redaction.

R: Lerner, 043, 963-5825, 26 Jan 88

----=

HANDLE MA COME

---

## Page 5

Doc Ref ID: A4269481

-SECRET.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

TO

Dennis Chadwick

FOIA/PA Office

National Security Agency

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755-6000

2 1. DEC 1987

FROM

: Information and Privacy Coordinator. Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: FOIA/PA Request of

CHA FOLA/ PA No.

Mark A. Allen

F81-0351

(FOIA LITIGATION)

CA81-2543

In connection with review of ClA files responsive to the above request, the following material was surfaced.

A. FOR YOUR DIRECT RESPONSE TO THE REQUESTER:

( ] _ documentis) which originated with your agency and is/are being referred to you for direct

response to the requester (enclosure _). We will advise the requester of this referral.

a. Documents) numbered

-. We have identified the CIA-

originated information in the documents). and have no objection to its release.

b. Documents) numbered

.. We have been unable to iden-

.

tifs any information as having originated with this Agency. If, as a result of your review of the

source documents, information is identified which originated with this Agency: you are requested

to coordinate this information with us prior to any release to the requester.

c. Document(s) numbered

Deletions have been made in

each enclosed copy which consist of non-substantive internal markings, such as filing instructions.

Since these markings will not appear on your file cops, no deletion or exemption for deletion should

be necessary. If, however, you are unable to locate your file copy and must use the enclosed cops

for your response, the requester should be advised that non-substantive deletions have been made

by this Agency under ( | FOlA exemption (bX3)/( | PA exemption (iXI).

d. Documents) numbered

Substantive information has

been deleted from this material as marked. The requester should be informed of this denial and of

the FOIA/PA exemption(s) claimed. Please see additional information given under Comments.

1 | Additional information abnut this/these documents) is given under Comments.

B. FOR YOUR REVIEW AND RESPONSE BACK TO THIS AGENCY:

(X /_I I CIA documents) containing information provided by your Agency (enclosure B). Please revie-

your information (bracketed in red), and return the documents) to us, marking any deletions you deeni

appropriate, citing FOlA/PA exemptions) claimed, and stating the current and proper level of any

classified information. In your response, please cite the date of this memo, the name of the requester,

and the ClA case number.

FOLA exemptions (b) (1)&(b) (3) have been claimed

IX 1 Additional information about this/these deucents) is given under Comments.

A copy of the requester's initial letter and any other significant correspondence are enclosed for your records

(enclosure _A). If you have any questions. please contact

Deboran A.

Kircher

_on 351:2561

Sibrats

7 Диски

COMMENTS:

Last page of the attached is for your review only.

Additional

pages are for reference only. Classification markings left on

attachment pending NSA review.

SECRET

URSLASSTTED Wian Separated

From Exslasure

---

## Page 6

Doc RéfTD: A4269481

5 December 1966

MEMORAND UM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: "American Defectors to the USSR"

1. The attached material was part of a soît file entitled!

"American Defector's to the USSR",

which was sat up byra

A around 1960 and maintained by various do components

until ca. 1963.

The compilations were derived fiom a variety

of sources, and contin both classifiad and overt data.

2.

In the fall of 1966, the files were turned

over toy

In most instances, basic information vas then abstracted

In all instances in which

the material was unique,

or represented & valuable collation effort,

it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with

a copy of this memorandum.

3.

It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should

be coordinated with red deterand with

in

view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that

disseminations have already been made

Orig

8621

---

## Page 7

* Doc Ref TD: A4269481

M

PITTMAN

John

SPITIMAN

Mazzeret

Both are in koscow, Connunists, working as correspondents for

"The Worker".

19 Aug 60

---

## Page 8

Doc Ref ID: A4269481

PITTMAN, John

COM

USA

Paris correspondent of American "Daily Worker"

JUL 11 1952.

llay 47)

FRANCE

---

## Page 9

" Doc RéfID: A4269481

NSA

Joha ascon Pettimane

Faun T/S (NSA) dscementi (traul)

cated

(1) 14april 1970

(2): 11 malel 1970

(3) 7 may 1920

0: 25 дыки 1969

14-763

SECRET

---

