# 144-10001-10368_docid_6782983_sealed

## Page 1

SECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10368

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

NSA

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

TO

HCO

....

.. 'TITLE"

2X/01/7133-63 U KETHARA ATTACHS GOVERNMENT: LIKENS FATE OF NEE WIN

PAGES: 32/04/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

5

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

ORIGENETENG AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

120:2102

SECRET SABRE

114

2X/0/

/T133-63

IS 4 DeC 63 P

Dist:

HCO

ST 240

SECRET

U KETHARA ATTACKS GOVERNMENT: LIKENS FATE OF

NE WIN TO DIEM AND KENNEDY

0/26659-53

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

26 NOV 63

• 1771/NA 4

[GIST]a

FOR EVALUATION

The shweman Sayadaw U RETHARA spoke at a religious ceremony

which was held from 190D hours to 2115 hours on 25 November.

The

ceremony was sponsored by U PAW to and took place in the (4G]

Sunshwehlezu quarter which is in the jurisdistion of the saingdaw

[quarter] police station in Mandalay. Approximately 250D: people

attended, including some 3õo monks.

The text-of the sermon con

cerned the attainment of Nirvaná.

There was no (B val elaboration)

on references made to the arrest of CPB/WF members, South Viet Nam,

or the Kennedy assassination:

However, in connection with the

talks between the government and the insurgents, the speaker did

GROUP - 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC.

SECRET

RAGE _1

of

_PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS

962K

P/L

CN

WS

33-

-134-63

26 NOV 63

2X/0,

T133-63

0/26659-63

of 3

PAGE(s)

PAGE

SECRET SABRE

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/

T133-63

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

SECRET

0/26659-63

say he had come to the conclusion that the government was right

since the original groups of insurgents were not accomplishing

anything with their demands for statehood.

The Shweman: Sayadaw said he was about to set to work and

that on a (B val holy day) in the month of Tabaung he would

deliver a sermon which would deal with [XM] the danger of communism

and how it seeks to thwart religion. He said he would also speak

on how the Revolutionary Goverrment [3G] (B val misrules) the

people and how, once the people have been alerted, the government

will be destroyed.

The monk continued by saying that as it has been with the

monks who unhesitatingly banded together and put a stop to the

trouble over the four pagoda colonnades and the (B val number) 45

petrol station, the people likewise will' be able to put an end

to their troubles. And today, as it has been with world leaders

like NGO DINH DIEM

and KENNEDY. Bogyoke NE WIN likewise will

tremble with fear.

SECRET

PAGE - 2

_of_3

_PAGE(s)

PAGE_ 2 of 3 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 4

SECRET SABRE

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

2X/01

-..

T133-63

SECRET

0/26659-63

After apparently making a reference to an historical example,

in which a king was driven from his country by the people, the

Shweman Sayadaw concluded by saying that in order to attain

Nirvana one should follow the precepts of the eight-goods.

a .

Portion of text; remainder irrelevant.

b.

Identified elsewhere as a lumber merchant.

• C.

Iwelfth month of the Burmese year, roughly equivalent to March:

*SECRET

PAGE_ 3

of

3_ PAGE(s)

PAGE 3

SECRET SABRE

of _3__ PAGE(s)

---

