Dare 91/13/98
Pace:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10169
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

M : Nea 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D’

TLE":
2/0] }Rs8-63 6s ALERT IN ORIENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERMINATED [R]
DATE : 11/26/63
PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS:
TERMINATION OF ORIENTE ALERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : -S-
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST ‘REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

TRU ELEM TS RESTRECTED “Derived From: NSA/CSSM 123-2,
if Dated 3 September 199!

Declassify On; — Source Marked "OADR”
Date of source: 3 Sep 91'

on 08-12-2022 unde:



WANS
NC S 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REPORT

VM

Ma

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within
the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission
or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is ‘prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and reed by only those
lance with com-
ns nd who need the

No action is to be taken on in erein reported, re-
gordless of temporary advantage, if jon might have the
effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL



2/0] 'R58-63
ceeeeeee "tt" **""26 Nov 63 20192
DIST: 0/WA.
ST 250
ALERT IN “PRTENTE Proviter. -BELIEVED TO BE! TERMINATED

The alert in, Oriente Province (see 2] R196-63) is be-
lieved to be terminated’.- The alert,-apparently prompted by
Pregident KENNEDY "S deatH-on 22 November, was possibly pre-
scheditled to-termirate’ on 25 November. There have been two orders
which! suggest that the alert" was destined to be concluded on

25 Noyember; they’ ware: *. B

+ 1) Access £Q the fet “Observation Post at Punta

Maisi:(20-15N 74-09W)\was réstricted until 25 November: because
of thé alert (see ayos|_Yresy- 63); and

2) Subordinates of Banes, Headquaeters Eastern Naval
District, were to receive further-orders on the 25th, presumably
conceming their alert status (2/0 JRt96-63)5, no such orders
have Been noted in communications. -

There have been mo further references in intercepted communi-
cations to the alert since 02222 on 23 November (2/QS IR667-63) .
It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation
Post at Punta Maisi extends to other Observation Posts in Oriente
Province such as reported on 23 November when First Army Coastal
Observation Posts were placed in an alert status
(2/LR1| R188-63), and. that the restriction was to be lifted on
25 November by all those’posts.

Further indication that the alert has terminated is the fact
that the Cuban Navy was engaged in an island-wide commmications
exercise on 25 November. “It is considered unlikely that such an
exercise would be conducted under alert conditions.

There have been no further references to the alert status
of the (D percent Santiago Ue Cuba) units which was first ob-
served on 23 November (2/sL| _ }RO5-63). 11 CRAF and Soviet
Forces’Cuba communications appear to be normal during this
period, 22-26 November 1963.

DIST: O/WA PLUS CG 2ND MAW

Page 1 of 1 Page(s)

-SECRET-KIMBO-
