DooReflB: 44269364 SECRET MORAY
Date: 10/09/98

Pace: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10342
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
HCF
TITLE 3 =
2x/o| 7173-63 KING AND QUEEN OF THAILAND SEND CONDOLENCES [R]

“+. DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 3

ASSASSINATION, SORN: KENNEDY,
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL, DOCUMENT
B
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

=
1:
ray

i 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

Released on 0; 2022 under the John F. ion Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

-SECREF MORAY


” Doc Ref ID: 44269364

—SEGRET-SABRE—

2x/of _}r173-63
IS 24 Nov 15492 P

Dist: HCF

SLC RL ae

KING AND QUEEN OF THAILAND SEND CONDOLENCES :

24 Nov 63 1300
Priority

Msg Nr: 63

Most immediate, ‘

immediately following the: ‘news of the assassination of
President KENNEDY, two royal telegrams were sent direct to
President LYNDON JOHNSON end Mrs. J. F. KENNEDY in Washington,
D.C, The text cf the twe royal telegrams are as follows:

Fis Excellency President LYON B, JOHNSON, :
Washington, D. C., U.S.A. '

Lt is with profound sheck that*the Queen and! I have learned

GROUP 1 me SCRE PAGE. of
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC :

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE(s)

MS 57 eke [] TL 24 Nev aT

7 [English] ws aif fsi06s 2x/0] 1173-63

0/26562-63

PAGE_1 of 3 PAGE(s)

SEGRET SABRE



” Doc Ref ID: 44269364

2x/0/ [n173-63

SECRET 0/26562-43
of the assassination of President KENNEDY, We deeply deplore
such a dastardly act perpetrated on the life of one so dedicated
to lasting progress of mankind and to the “defenséof world peace.
The Queen joins me in expressing to ycu cur most

heartfelt condolences and sympathy upon the great loss sustained by
the American nation and the free world.

Mrs. J, F, KENNEDY ie
White House

Washington, D. C.
U.S.A,

44 USC 2107(5)(g 2)

The Queen and I are profcundly distressed to have learned
of the tragic and untimely ceath of the President of the United
Seaces and hasten to.express our mest heartfelt condolences and

sympathy cn the beresvement so grievously syistained by yoy apd
chalet See
XCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

PAGE__2. of __3. PAGE(s)

SEGREF SABRE

,


” Doc Ref ID: A4269364

SECRET SABRE

ax/of__)ri73-63

TSF o2sh02-03

[

In order to prevent any ‘possible error, His Majesty the King
has been graciously pleased to command that the texts of the royal
telegrams quoted above be communicated ‘to you so ‘that you may
deliver them to their destinations as soon as Pogsible, Please
act accordingly.

your ,familyeil:.

GROUP 1 PAGE__3 of __3__PAGH{s)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC me LCR te

DGWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE__3 of 3 PAGE(s)

SEGREF SABRE

,
