# 144-10001-10083_docid_6782389_sealed

## Page 1

DATE: 02/25/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: NSA

144-10001-10083

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

[ RESTRICTED ]

IITLE :

L RESTRICTED ]

PAGES

AGES : 2

11/26/63

SUBJECTS :

I RESTRICTED ]

DOCUMENT TYPE

: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

+

1B

CURRENT STATUS

JATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSMENTE COMPARTMENTED TNFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

2/0,

VR58-63

26 Nov 63 20192

DIST:

0/WA

ST :250

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REP

RT

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmissio

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

pers hi doc or of all datined in no cod by oly her.

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

nformation in order to perform their duties

gards of emporay talete go, information hen in reprove, to

if such action might have th

effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act

of 1992

---

## Page 3

SECRET KIMBO

2/01 /R58-63

26 Nov 63 2019Z

DIST: 0/WA

ST 250

ALERT IN ORTENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE FERMINATED

The alert in Oriente Province (see 2/0

R196-63) is be-

The alert, apparently pfompted by

death on 22 November, was passibly pre-

scheduled to terminate on 25 November.

There have been two orders

which suggest that the alert was destined to be concluded on

25 November;

they are:

1) Access to the Coastal Observation Post at Punta

Maisi (20-15N 74-09W) was restricted until 25 November because

of the alert (see 2/QS.

/R667-63) ; and

2) Subordinates of Banes, Headquarters: Eastern Naval

District, were to receive further orders

on the 25th, presumably

concerning their alert status. (2/0/ R196-63); no such orders

have been noted in communications.

There have

been no further references in intercepted commini-

cations to the alert since 0222Z, on 23 November •(2/QS [R667-63) •

It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation

Post at Punta Maisi extends to other Observation •Posts in Oriente

Province such as reported on 23 November when First Army Coastal.

Observation Posts were placed in an alert status:

/R188-63), and that the restriction was to be lifted on

25 November-by all those posts.

Further indiçation that the alert has terminated is the fact

that the Cuban Navy-was engaged in an island-wide communications

exercise on 25 November.

It is considered unlikely that such an

exercise would be condudted under alert conditions.

There have been

no further references "to the alert status

of the (D percent Santiago de Củba) units which was first ob-

served on 23 November (2/SL/ /R05-63). Al] CRAF and Soviet

Forces Cuba communications appear. to be normal during this

period, 22-26 November 1963.

DIST:

0/WA

PLUS

CG 2ND MAW

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2X(D)(i)

Page 1 of 1 Page(s)

SECRET KIMBO

---

