# 144-10001-10057_full release_20171101_ref id a4269369

## Page 1

x.*

Doc Ref ID: "A4269369

DATE: 04/07/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10057

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

REPORT ON EXAMINATIÓN OF MATERIAL RELATED TO LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE

AlL: 06/15/6

AGES •

-ERF

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE

DICTIONARY, CRYPTOLOGIC PURPOSE

JOCUMENT TYPE

LASSIFICATION : MEMORANDUI

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/93

ORIENTE NG AGENCES DETERATNATION REQUTRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

3631 22 680 0

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

Dọc Rei ID: A4269369

SECRET

MANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

) 5 sun

64.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Report on Banination of Matertal

Related to Las Harvey Oswald Case

The undersigned have examined all the material relating

to the lee Harvey Oswald case provided to us by the warzen

commission and have found no indication that any of the

Items was used for a cryptographic purpose or for passing

secret Information:

a.

A detailed examination of the dictionaries fatled

to show any indication that they had been used in connection

with a dictionary code.

A review of the letters of all the correspondents

related to the case, as well as of the Oswald Diary and

other documents, provided no suggestion of the use of an

open code.

perforations which suggested the use of a grille

system appeared on two pages of the Russian novel, GLAZA

KOTORYE: SPRASHIVAYUS,

"Questioning Fyes". However, the

manner of perforating only a few letters does not conform

to any krom system. For purposes of further study, we

would like to obtain the original of the novel on long-term

in pay

or permanent loan. Me belleve, nevertheless, that it la most

Ilkely that the letters were cut out for some purpose

ralated to Oswald's photographic experiments.

a..

the appearance of the tery "micro dots" on page 44

of Lee Oswald's address book aroused our suspicions.

particularly in that it was associated with the address of

the photographic firm where he was once employed. Toere

was nothing to indicate to us that niero dots were actually

used and we have had to assuna that appropriate technical

tests were made by the FBI or CIA.

MINT

NELS ONLY

SECRET

ELECTROSTATIC RECROR

228 MADL

FOR PRESERVATION 253223

NSA ARCHIVES 73R BE

CANTIT OF

A DETERIORATING MANUSCRLPT TEM

Released on 11-01-2017 under

the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doe Ref-ID: A4269369

SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT SHANNELS ONLY

e.

Oswald's Soviet made portable radio receiver and

its associated power supply were examined and tested by

R34 with negative results.

The radio (for purposes of the

teste the power supply was considered an Integral part)

conformed closely to one examined by the British in 1959,

A COPY Of R34'a findings 1s attached.

f. The names appearing in lee's and Marina's address

books have been checked against NSA files but no COMOT

references have been discovered. Collateral references

held in the tiles have only confirmed known information.

A COpY of the report 1a attached.

In addition to the information on the addresses

developed in the personality check, a separate study of:

NSA address files ls being made.

while this study 1s

not yet complete, results have so far been negative and

there is no reason to expect that anything beyond what

the personality check has already tured up will be

discovered.

Runs Best

Ruth F. Bebb

arrie D. Berru

arIse B. Berryl

Meredith K. garbner

Meredith K. Gardner

назовидс

.. James Gengles

CHANDLE VIA COMINE CHANNELS ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref LĐ: A4269369

16 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR DR. TORDELLA

SUBJECT: Letter for the President's Commission

1. Please note that I have eliminated two stems from the original

Memorandum for the Record on the examination of the Oswald materials.

These are the reference to "micro dots" (paragraph d) and the COMINT

reference in paragraph 1.

2. 1 suggest that you informally (possibly by telephone) call the

Commission's attention to the appearance of the term "micro dots" on

page 44 of Oswald's address book. You might indicate that this reference

aroused our suspicion but that we do not feel competent to make an

exhaustive examination of the materials for the presence of micro dots -

such examination should be conducted by the FBI or CIA. If micro dots

are actually found, we would be happy to collaborate to the fullest

degree required in the analysis of these dots.

3. I do not belteve a statement that we have checked the names

against the NSA files needs to be made since:

The results were negative and

ba It identifles the existence of sensitive COMINT records.

Of course, if we had found something, a positive report would have been

required.

4.

Mr. Arnold has reviewed the text of the letter and accepts it

as unclassified under the circumstances.

FRANK B. ROWLETT

Special Assistant to the Director

ELECTROSTATiC REPRODUCTION MADE

FOR PRESERVATION PURPOSES BY THE

NSA ARCHIVES FOR REPLACERIENT OF

A DETERIORATING MAHUSCRIPT ITEM:

1E240

TA CONIT 0

---

## Page 5

Doc Ret ID: A4269369

The material relating to the lee Harvey Oswald case provided by the

Warren Commission was examined and there was no indication that any of

the items were used for a cryptographic purpose or for passing secret

Information

---

## Page 6

Doc Ref HD: A4269369

President's Commission on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

200 Maryland Avenue N.E,

Washington, D. C..

20002

ATIN: MI. J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

Dear MI. Rankin:

Skilled cryptologists at NSA carefully examined the materiale

relating to the Lee Harvey Oswald case provided by the Warren Com-

mission. The results are as follows:

a. A detalled examination of the two dictionaries revealed

no indication of their use for cryptographic purposes.

b. In the corespondence, the Oswald Dlary., and the other

documett s examined there were no evidences of the use of any type

of cryptography, to include the use of an open code.

c.

. Certain letters had been removed from pages 150 and 152

of the Russian novel, GLAZA KOTORYE SPRASHIVAYUT, "Questioning

Eyes." Eight letters had apparently been cut from page 152 as follows:

Iine 10

Line 11

Line 13

line 16

Line 24

Line 26

Line 27

*, 0

One letter had been removed from page 150; however no significance

Is attributed to the removal of this letter since it corresponds in exact

ELECTROSTATIC REPRODUCTION MADE

FOR PRESERVATION PURPOSES BY THE

NSA ARCHIVES FOR REPLACEMENT OF

A DETERIORATING MANUSCRIPT ITEM

---

## Page 7

Doc Ref ID: A4269369

position to one of the letters removed from page 152. It was con-

cluded that this letter had been accidently removed by the cutting

process applied to page 152 and that its removal resulted from the

application of excessive pressure on the cutting tool when the letter

on page 152 was taken out.

The sample is considered too small for any valid conclusions to

be reached as to the purposes for which the above noted letters were

removed. It is considered most unlikely that this process of letter

removal has any cryptographic implication.

d. The Russtan "Tourist" portabla radio was examined for

cryptologie evidence. The radio appears to be a normal receiver and

there was no evidence of its use for any other purpose.

e. The names appearing in Les's and Marina's address

books were checked. No evidence of cryptologie Implication was

found.

Although the results of the examination of the materials provided

by the Commission are essentially negative, further study of these

materials will be made. Il any results are obtained, the Commission

will be advised. However, it ts considered most unlikely that any

thing beyond what is reported above will be discovered.

Sincerely

GORDON A. BLAKE

Lieutenant General, USAF

Director

---

