# 144-10001-10288_docid_6782170_sealed

## Page 1

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10288

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

: NSA

: PRINCIPAL DEUTY ASST SECDEF (INTEL)

TITLE

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE QUIERIES TO NSA CONCERNING THE WARREN COMMISSI

DATE : 01/26/76

AGE • 10

SUBJECTS

SSCSGO, WC INVESTIGATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

PENING CROIERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COUT ROLLA PORE DEPUTY ELECTORATON PECO COLLECT ON ATE 295) DR.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

10288

CANS: 11 065: 100

2023°

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: N0078

26 January 1976

TOP SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY

OF DEFENSE (INTELLIGENCE)

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Queries to NSA Concerning

the Warren Commission

Reference your letter dated 14 January 1976 transmitting

a request from Mr. Alton Quanbeck of the Senate Select

Committee Staff.

The following information is provided in

response to Mr. Quanbeck's letter, keyed by paragraph to

his letter (inclosed - see underlined portions) •

Most of

the information was made available to the SSC Staff, Mr.

Jim Johnson, during

an interview with Dr. Louis Tordella

on 20 January 1976.

Para. 1. - NSA requested permission to retain

photocopies of those reports on which we had worked merely

as record copies of our efforts on behalf of the Commission.

It was felt that if a question should arise at that time

concerning what analytic efforts had been involved and the

number of manhours expended, a record copy would prove useful.

No operational use was made of these documents except to

hold them on file for a period of time which cannot now be

determined. To the best of our present knowledge, the photo-

copies have now been destroyed.

Absolutely no results

relevant to the assassination were obtained through NSA's

analytic look at the exhibits.

The Commission, in the person

of Mr. Allan Dulles, had asked Dr. Tordella, informally, to

review the exhibits for any secret writing or codes which

might have been contained in the documents.

Dr. Tordella,

after causing a careful review of the documents by NSA crypt-

analysts, reported verbally to Mr. Dulles and other Commission

members that nothing whatsoever had been achieved by the

analytic effort. No written reply was submitted.

Classifed by DiENEA/C70GS (N66/6S0M 3232)

Exempt from: G23, E? 21002, 0-4-12---

Declassify Upon Metapatina Cy to Originator

lack amed doming

1W0IF WA DOIN

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

10288

Serial: N0078

Para. 2. - NSA is uncertain as to what is precisely

meant by these comments, but we assume that the comments on

names refer to our biographic files which are maintained on

foreign personalities of potential intelligence significance.

As the Committee knows, these biographic files are maintained

(now at CIA incidentally) as analytic support.

It is also

possible that the Commission was referring to

the fact that

names are frequently seen in traffic collected for foreign

intelligence purposes and therefore NSA might have access

to foreign names not otherwise available to the Intelligence

Community.

Para. 3. - It may well be that CIA did obtain such

transmissions

and pass them to NSA for analysis, but no one

presently working that analytic area recalls such a request.

Discussions with Dr. Tordella also failed to shed any light

on this subject.

There are no files or records which we have

been able to locate from that time frame which would sub-

stantiate such a claim. In fact, the only file the responsible

analytic group has been able to locate concerning a request

from the Warren Commission deals with a file compiled from

open sources citing major dates in the last months of Oswald's

life.

Presumably the date file was to be compared with NSA

product on/about the key dates in the hope that something

could be deduced. The file does not contain any "hits."

The analysts who performed this effort have since retired.

Para. 4. - The informal request from Mr. Dulles is

the known total extent of NSA's role in assistina in the

investigation. The file discussed in Paragraph 3 is the only

file thus far recovered. There is no information which can

now be identified which was developed from Cuban or Soviet

transmissions relating to the assassination.

Para. 5. - We have no information on this subject

at all. However, pursuant to the subject raised during the

Tordella interview, we have searched our files manually,

and as Mr. Lowman agreed during the Tordella interview, we

have recovered three product reports (Inclosures 2 through

4) which show that Cuban military forces did go on alert

immediately after the assassination.

There is no SIGINT

evidence, however, that the Cuban forces were alerted prior

to the assassination, thereby suggesting that they had prior

knowledge of the event.

2

900 3223594

---

## Page 4

10288

SEEN DOE

Ted Ane.

Serial: N0078

Para. 6. - No hard copy material of any kind was

provided to

the Commission (see Para.

DAVID D. LOWMAI

Special Assistant

to the Director

for Congressional Reviews

4 Inçls:

a/s

3

16 5Л74.

---

## Page 5

10288

Serial: N0078

CC :

DIR

(Less Incls)

D/DIR

ESS

ESS/R

ESS, Mr. Lowman

G, Mr.

Peksa

NCRDEF

A, Miss Caracristi

. fLess Incis)

L221

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

---

## Page 6

1 0288

TOP SECRET

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20301

14 January 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR The Director, National Security Agency

The attached letter from Alton Quanbeck, Senate Select

Committee staff, dated 13 January 1976, is forwarded for your

action.

Please provide this office with a response to Mr. Quan-

beck's questions as soon as possible, but not later than

22 January 1976. Your response should include a proposed date

the Committee staff may have access to files mentioned in

paragraph 4.

Cornsel. Lateran

Latimer

Attachment

600484

-TOP SECRET

UPON REMOVAL OF ATTACHHENTS THIS

DOCUMENT BECOMES UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 7

10285

01000)

TOP SECRET

CONTROL NO. -

208

R2132

REFERRED TO

OFFICE

RECEIVED

RELEASED

SEEN BY

SIGNATURE

DATE TIME

DATE TIME

NAME & OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

Handle Via Indicated Controls

COMINT

Access to this document will be restricted to those persons

cleared for the specific projects;

WARNING

This document contoins information affecting the national security of the United Slates within the meaning of

the espionage laws U.S. Code Title 18,

Sections 793, 794 and 798.

The low prohibits its transmission or the

revelation of its contents in any monner to an unouthorized person, os well as its use in ony manner prejudicial

lo the safely or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any foreign government lo the detriment of.

the United States.

It is to be seen only by personnel especially indoctrinated and aullrorized lo receive in-

formation in the designated control chonnels.

Its securily must be mointained in accordance with regulations

pertaining to the BYEMAN ond Communications Inelligence Controls. No oction is lo be token on any com-

munications intelligence which moy be contoined herein, regordless of the advantoge to be gained, if such

action might hove the ellect of recoling the existence and nolure of the source, unless such action is first

approved by the appropriate authority.

1 SECRET

---

## Page 8

10288

FHANX CHURCH. IDAHO, CHATAMAN

VONNE. TOWEN, TEAMS. VICE CHAIRMAN

HOWAND H. HAKER. JR., TENN.

WALTER:, MONDALE. MINN.

WILTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

новені минали, пи.

*FART HARD COLD.

BARRY GOLOWATER, ARIZ.

CHAMLES MCC. MATHIAS, JR. MO. MANF

МІСЛАНО ЗА БЕНТЕНКИ РАА

United States Senate

WILLIAM C. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDENICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS H. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. AES. 21, P4TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

January 13, 1976

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

Special Assistant to the Secretary

U. S. Department of Defense

Washington, D. C. 20301

Dear Tom:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation of

the assassination of President Kennedy, we earller received

answers to certain questions put to NSA.

Since then we have

examined other material pertaining to NSA's contribution to

the Warren Commission's investigation and we desire further in-

formation from NSA.

By way of background for this request, we note the Warren

Commission provided NSA various documents and asked NSA to re-

view them for any cryptological significance.

NSA found no

cryptological significance and its report of this fact was pub-

lished by the Commission.

1.

By letter of July 10, 1964, (a copy of which is attached)

Mr. Rankin provided General Blake a copy of certain documents

requested by Dr. Tordella for NSA's files. Since NSA's analysis

of the documents was apparently completed at the time of Rankin's

letter, we wish to know why NSA wanted to keep these documents

for its file.

Further, we wish to know what use, if any, was

made of these documents and what results relevant to the assassina-

tion were obtained from such use.

2.

In a Commission staff internal memorandum, discussing

documents provided NSA, it is reported that NSA is "primarily

interested in names," and NSA claims it has "information on names

which the CIA does not have."

Assuming these statements are ac-

curate, we wish to know what significance such names would have

HA

ELS

TED IRAN CONERAL DECLASSIRCATION

§ Said i :

AOTOMATIGALY DEELASSIRRO ON

impissile to betessne

juniore rogussale, resent date of event)

---

## Page 9

10288

id bitten

Mr. Thomas K. Latimer

January 13, 1976

Page Two

HE MA COMINI

to NSA and what information on names NSA had that CIA did not.

If names had significance, what names did NSA use in its analysis?

3.

We are informed that CIA obtained transmissions from the

Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for November or December 1963 and

that it may have passed these to NSA for analysis.

Did NSA re-

ceive these transmissions or any transmissions relevant to the

assassination inquiry?

Did it analyze them?

What were the re-

sults of its analysis?

4.

We are interested in learning the extent of NSA's role in

assisting in the investigation of the assassination.

In that

connection, please inform the Committee the extent of NSA files

relating to the assassination. Please provide the staff of the

Committee access to those files.

Please provide the staff with

a summary of all information NSA developed from Cuban or Soviet

5.

We have been informed that after the assassination the

Cuban government instructed its embassies and consulates to re-

turn all files on Oswald to Cuba.

What information does NSA

have on whether such instructions were issued?

6.

In connection with the answers to questions 4 and 5, please

indicate whether such material was provided the Warren Commission

and provide copies of all documents evidencing that fact.

We would appreciate receiving a response to these questions

as soon as possible and to expedite this inquiry we are sending

a copy of this letter to Mr. Foster of NSA.

- Poste of is.

Sincerely,

al

Alton H. Quanbeck

CC: Frank Foster

• to corale one or more)

Impossibte to siter mine

(unlese uny.

•ert inte ar event)

---

## Page 10

10288

fir.

NSA

7/7/64

fir

JUL 1 0 1954

reutchant,

Furt George T. leade, Maryland

Deas General Blake:

In regard to Dr. Tordello's request, the lational

S curitj Agency 13 authurized to keep for 1ls

file the following

photographic copies of Itens which have been used by the

Commission 1n 1ts investigation:.

"...

(1)

CormissIon Exhibit 31

(2) Cunmiesion Eshlbit 15

(3) CommIssion Exhlbli 104

(4) Commission Exhlbit i8

(5)

Typewritten versicn of Conmission Whibit 24

(6) F. B. I. Items A-2, A-6

(7) P. B. I. Items 137, 152

Thank you for the cooperation and assistance sou

have rendered the Conri3s1or.

Sincerely,

SIGNED

J. Lee Fankin

General Cuunsel

RECI

Ficuses

cc: Mr. Bankin

Mr. Willens

Mr. Hosk

---

## Page 11

• :.

10288

TO

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

N52

TOP SECRET

CONDIDEOTAL

4

1101

APPROVL

COLCURPLACE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPTY

PACH

iNFORMATION

PREPEDE REPLI

ET

30035000822:

SIGNATURE

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO

DATE

DIA SSO

CONTROL. NO.

$00484

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENOY

APPENDED DOCUMENT CONTAINS

SPECIAL INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL

Access to this document sill be restricted to

those individuals approved for Special Intelligence.

Warning Notice

Sensitive Intelligence Sources and Methods Involved

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

292

TOP SECRET

SECKET

NEDENTIAL

DIA FORM 567 (10-71) SI COVER SHEET

Previous editions of this for are obsolate:

---

