Doc Ref JD: 44269448 :
it Date: 03/01/97

ce Pace: 1
2afiis JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
: AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10176
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
FROM : G. ROBERT BLAKELY
Rsa*Pao
TITLE:
REQUEST OF DOCUMENT’ 3/0/CUD/R 12-62 DTD 5/15/62 RE
DATE : 11/13/78
PAGES : 11
SUBJECTS. :
3/0/CUD/T62-62 DOCUMENT TRACKING OF CUBAN PERSONS RI

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM/REPORT ATTACHED
CLAS STE LEATAON :

RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA
ORIGINATING AGENCY’ g DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED Derived From: — NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: Source Marked "OADR”
Date of source: 3 Sep 91



"Dog Ref ID: A268 onse, omo.cnumian @

Select Committee on Assassinations
GS. House of Representatives

9969 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

November 13, 1978

Legislative Affairs Office

National Security Agency

Section D-1, Room 9A119

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755

Gentlemen:

In connection with its investigation into the
circumstances surrounding the death of President John
F. Kennedy, the Select Committee on Assassinations re-
quests access to NSA Document 3/0/CUD/R 12-62 dated
May 15, 1962, consisting of two pages. That document
is referenced in FBI Bufile #64-330-210-1262 and was
deleted from the FBI file pursuant to the Third Agency
Agreement.

Your cooperation and prompt attention to this
request is appreciated.

Sincerely,

br Pola,

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

GRB:sbg

a


;Doc Ref fp: 44269448. : C ) e
wae : DRAFT
SECRET
Mr. G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 House Office Building, Annex 2
Washington, DC 20515
Dear Mr. Blakey:
This responds to your letter of November 13, 1978, directed to a

component of the Department of Defense.

With respect to the subject of the FBI file to which the requested
information relates, the information held by the Department of Defense
indicates that the individual who has been identified by the FBI as the
object of your inquiry applied for, and was granted permission to enter
Cuba in late March 1962, entry to be made within 30 days.

Sincerely,

JOHN G. KESTER
Special Assistant to
The Secretary



Doc Ref ID: A4269448

LE



* Doc Ref ID: A4269448
Select Committee on Assassinations
G.D. House of Representatibes
WASHINGTON, D.c. 20515

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

e-

e

é ™ 3
d ee “Ss
Ss a) ar
™. _ i _ OW
i) ead = CW
ies => od
Ge SF ©

| = Reed

2 =

Fort QG

a Security ‘Agen ge
D-1, Régm 9A11¢=

earge G. M e,

20755


eo . ~ ae . . 1 .
Doc Ref ID: A4269448 * Legislativeg) ffairs

28 November Ra
Lee, Ay 4

The following three pages are for Judy Miller.
Thank you so much for your help. Sorry to be so
much of a bother lately. y)

Linda Raineri


Doc Ref ID:-44269448 * Legislativegsffairs
28 November 1978
TO: Judy Miller
1. Enclosed is a request made directly to us by
Mr. Blakey and a reply which we propose be provided to

Mr. Blakey by Mr. Kester.

2. If you have any questions concerning this
please give me a call.

Knees Coy.
pn

Encl:
a/s


ses Legislative@}fairs

24 November 1978

TO: DIR

SUBJECT: House Assassinations Committee Report
1. Enclosed is a new request from Mr. Blakey.

2. We have learned from the FBI that the subject
of the inquiry is Mr. Gilberto Lopez Rodriguez a.k.a.

Gilberto Lopez Polichaepo.

3. There is some information on this individual
contained in the enclosed COMINT report of May 1962.

4. Dan Silver and I have prepared a proposed
response - also enclosed - which pretty much protects
the COMINT source while providing inffo to the Committee.

5. Request your approval.

a EUGENE F. YEA’

Encl:
a/s

ec: D/DIR
ADPL ;
Gc .



Doc Ref ID: A4269448 KECEIVE Rta
pi SRAFor

od NOV7E aioe) fF

p/EX REG


) Doc Ref ID: A4269448  - @ Data :
ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP IY Har an

TO: (Name, office symbol, room number,

building, Agency/Post)
a 1)

ion Eee ce ——T Note and Return
pproval For Clearance [| Per Conversation
As Requested | Fr Sateen Prepare Reply
a For Your Information See Me
[ [investigate
Coordination =| [Justify =

REMARKS oo

x

DO NOT use this form as a RECORD of approvals, concurrences, disposals,
clearances, and similar actions

FROM: (Name, org. symbol, Agency/Post)

EXECUTIVE REGISTRY

5041-102 OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)
Prescribed by

GSA
GPO: 1977 0 ~ 241-890 (24801 FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.206 4a

Room No.—Bldg.

Phone No.


Doc Ref ID: A4269448 .
DISPATCHED

24 NOV7S [4s fd Z

D/EX | REG


: : ig

Doc Ref ID; #4260448 ) @

°

WARNING

Ble Seepma Cats nai act Nima Clos Dy tated Stes
{ masetag 6 the Eapronags User, 23,0
 towbilea of Shigh towns hon (3 Bsa

paseane vhe wo atheally tedeonnard ie acsecmae wth oro
Stn ligne mney rote nal sas weed Be
Mahermtion la wedsr te parierns thelr dition

Me act

fem be mes oe snicemution he. ain roperied, rae
speery edcentigs, fur cohen night rae the



Doc Ref ID: Aaa

)
'

2962 te rilowing Oubscw residing in the Uukted Gentes ant Fuerte Rico requested
@eanrel of Kimigvekion te return to Cube.

MSG DATE

Entry within 30 days ie authorized. Q Mar 12
Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico

1366 BW LTth st Permission requested for der and for her son, 23 Apr 5
Miesi, Plea GONZALEZ PINER Y AGUIRRE,” IGHACIO RAFAEL.
Addresw in Cuba: 6805 13th St, Vedado, Havana

4 Meridel Dr Address in Cube: 114 Maloja, Havana

2

Ave Left Rancho Boyeros by Ian Awerican Airlines
1T Mar 62
Address in Cuba: 456 27th St
Apt 38
Vedado

Fare . of 2 Faces

College Left Cube 16 Sep 59
Jefferscn City, Tena Address in Cube: 96 Justa
Caibarien

‘2532 Herquette St. Left 2h Apr 62 with authorisation of 15 days. 25 Apr
Jacksoeville, 70, Fla Address in Cuba: 757 17th Sv
Vedato, Hevana

195 Davideoa Ave Requests peraission for himself and for BATISM, 2 Ney
Apt ie TLIAMA ISABEL BRROMSURBY, DIEZ IC.
Bronx, BY Addresees in Cube:1112 San Miguel, davens

ead 107 Pepetorrey Holguin


Re i ARQUELUES, “AIDA OFELL. 213 SW LTthe Ave

Miami
S16S1 Y woroLa,” AurERED 1606 West Ave
Apt 12

en :
can Clann,’ CACORE Je Be merece oe
Bee York
[ Lopes nemens,‘ axa } 608 Fiening 3
Key West, Fla
PORTA GONEALES,/ SUQNER SrEDA 1N3 We 33 8%
Niemi, Vie
PUJOL DELGAD0,! WARTAR lew York City
RODRIGUEZ DIAZ,/0@FALDO 57. Fox St
Apt 6
Nev Y

Entry within 20 days 1s autherised.

Matry within 30 days is authoriced 21 Mer 6&
Address in Cube: 91 Pasaje 2 2 may 62
Rancho Boyerce
She end ber son left Cube 17 mar 62. 27 Apr 62
Address in Cuba: 137 Velasquez
Cerro, Havens
Entry within 20 deys is authorized for him and for 2% Mar 62

PEREZ PADILLA,/YOLAMDA, of the same address.

Left Cuba 2 Mar 62 2h Mar 62

Address 11 Cuba: Cespedes 5416 a
Artemisa, Pinar del Rio "

Arrived in Miemi 12 Mar 62. Did not leave 26 Apr 62

before because of his wife's accident.
Address in Cuba: 1004 First Ave
Marianac, Havana

