+ Doc Ref ID: 44260432 -FOP SECRET UMBRA
: ise Date: 10/09/98

Pace: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM :
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10376
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
ROM : NSA
TO : 0/ZK
TITLE :
3/0/00Y/¥27- -63 SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER TWENTY-ONE [R]
DATE : 11/24/63
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
URRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8


Doc Ref ID: 4269432 nia a

REPRODUCTION/FURTHER DISSEMINATION PROHIBITED
WITHOUT PRIOR DIRNSA CONCURRENCE

3/0/QOY/R27-63

24 Nov 63 21052

DIST: 0/2K

ST O11, 022, 051, 071,
141, 161, 241, 311,
701

SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER ‘IWENTY-ONE

Information in this report is that available to NSA as of
1900Z, 24 November, 1963, unless otherwise stated.

SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY - PART ONE USC 2107(5)(GK2)0)

WORLD HIGHLIGHTS

1.

PLANES OVER

Beginning at 1330% on-25 Nevenber, thé ‘tewly established
detaghinent ; hag: been Otildted to co-érdinate
with navy units to intercept, destroy or coum, eract. enemy dir
incursions of ternitory..* this :|detachment, to be

: will alge: Join! ngvy and:national

guard units in patrolling the oqaat of sett :

Several U/L‘planes hdve fear reported j
since 7 October. .the estabbishment, of thie detachment
elements defensive measures ordered on 28 October. vagainst planes
suspected of stpplying the guerritlas of [7 hese flights,
according te previous | . reports ; are apparently
conducted-dn Mondays, fhursdays and Saturdays at 1930 hours.
Blof [no 63, 30 pee 21132, 3/0] R12-63, 2420012). ron

) : 3

2. CHOU EN-LAL MAY VISIT AFRICA IN: DECEMBER

: infoxmed
President TOURE that he had learned unofficially that Premier
CHOU EN LAL will leave P¢king on 13 or 14 December to visit
Egypt and other African‘countries, including Guinea, Ghana’
and Mali, He was unabfe to confirm the information with
Chinese protocol because, he believed, they were being
discreet in order toavoid an assassination attempt such |
as President LIU SHAO CHI had experienced in a visit to?

‘a Cambodia. G/of__}r139- 63, 2321572). (HOP-SREREE paHAR):

3. HAVANA REACTIONS ‘TO K

NNREDY ASSASSINATION

The reaction in Havana to the death of President K EDY
was calm but cautious, according to a report from the
Ambassador there on 23 November, Only isolated Communist groups
have shown any rejoicing. Radio and news reels are giving objective

Page 1 of & Page(s)

FOP-SEGREF-DENAR—



nia ol

Doc Ref iD: A4269432

3/0/QOY/R27-53

reports. ‘there is some corce : cepexeussions which the
assassination may have. (3/04 075-65, 2419172). CroP-srennt
pate) ;

to read:
coufirny
Chick of

dwilitary officer that
ad mortar, had

The report
in al

Staff at
insurgents, prob¢bi:
attacked a: .

a

second

charged ¢
consist:
F

A elawints J! in the usual veekend
virtual standdows statug; its of 130! or, -(SaeRE CHES

Be iat ton is locations in the central
aud westem for tha per: red on
comaumications Fecilities of the lon 23/24

v forecasts

November

