# 144-10001-10101_docid_6782052_sealed

## Page 1

TO

SE

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--.

AGENCY INFORMATION

UMBRAPAGE: 03/24/97

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10101

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

TITLE :

3/01

(T1657-63 ( (A)) :

DATE

12713/63

PAGES

• SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

USSR, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

-CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

-ER]

AMBASSADOR REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO

...:::::

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

[R]

tRI

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP

SAL ALas

UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

Change 1

WS 15532

3/0/ /T1657-63((A))

IS

•13

Dec 63

Dist:

HCO

AMBASSADOR REPORTS

SOVIET REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF

U.S.

PRESIDENT

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

29 NOY. 63

Msg Nr:

201

Reference repercussions in the soviet Union to the assassination

of President KENNEDY.

Basing the first on personal judgment and the others on reports

from reliable diplomatic sources, I will give"the following evalua-

• tions:

The deep grief produced here by the assassination was:

absolutely spontaneous and can be.èxplained by the high culture of

the soviet people, which enables, them to rise above world events,

and by traditional Russian sentimentality.

The moment the news was received, because of the possibility of

international complications the military authorities increased. their

security measures.

These have now returned to normal.

High-ranking Soviet officials are concerned over what interna-

tional policy the new president will'pursue, especially with respect

to cuba, and, although it seems that' MIKOYAN's feelings, after

speaking with the President and other high-ranking United States

officials, were mogerately calm, Soviet leaders are waiting to learn

how the matter of,'the purchase of wheat in the United, States will be

resolved and also for the conclusion of a new Soviet-United States

cultural agreement, in order to obtain a more clear idea of the above-

mentioned policy.

((A)) Reissue based on better text.

MS

19

cN

TI

.29

Nov: 63

Change

3/0/

T1657-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

