Doc Ref ID: A4269435° |
DaTE: eee
Pace: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10166
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TITLE :

2X/0/CUD/T2456-63 CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION & CUBA [RI]
DATE : 11/28/63
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :
US BLAMING CUBA FOR ASSASSINATION RI

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION :
IONS : 1B
CUR! Frau : X
DATE OF TASt REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA
ORIGINATING AGENCY’ § DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :
“CONFAENS-SENSE EHEC OMPARFMENFED—ENFORMATEON—

Released on 08-05-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From: | NSA/CSSM 123-2,
Dated 3 September 1991
Declassify On: — Source Marked “OADR"
Date of source: 3 Scp 91

-SECRET-MORAY-


ax/ ofe Lunpte656-65.
S 23 Now. 22242 2%:

: IDEL“stated,: "Events, arg demonstrating the.sinistef plot
beh: the assasSinat Lor of KENNEDY, ~ Contradictions. show that-:
OSWALD was made the culprit by), the police or was prepared to

act with promise of* "escape, and was pideestae activ itfes.

States. reactionaries: tried to make. Cuba’and the world the victims:
‘Of their criminal neue oi even @t the price of assasinating ’

TL, 29 sNov-'63

WS 173120

Released on 08-05-2022
under the John F.

.| Kennedy Assassination
Records Act of 1992



“there, shore ly. Hill. ‘bez ae
At .the year's end) nougats;. NW
tcf the development of



os ie RR

(Ay): This: is a_circular message sent: also. to Cubar

44 USC 2107(5) (g) (2) (D) (4)

