Doc Ref 1D: a4260052 +OP-SECREFEMBRA-

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 10/09/98
Pace:1

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10317
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
4 USC 21075) g NZD)
ee TUTE eee ele
3/0] [13564-63 “REPORT ON MIKOYAN TALKS IN THE UNITED STATES [RI]
DATE : 12/02/63 i"
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION JOHN’ KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :——
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW ; 07/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA
ORIGINATING AGENCY 3 DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

-FOP-SECREF EUMBRA-

under the John



Doc Ref ID: A4268852

FOP-SEGREF DEAR

WS 12404 3/o/| }13564-63

L_| Is,02 Dec 19352 P
: Dist: HCF

ST 300

REPORT ON MIKOYAN TALKS IN THE UNTTED STATES

: 29 Nov 63

Msg Nr: 1454 .

On the subject of: the conversation which: MIKOYAN had with
President JOHNSON, the Department told us that it does not yet
have a record of the conversation, As far as‘our interlocutor
knew the conversatiod was of a general natures MIKOYAN, after
expressing the sincere sorrow of the head of the Soviet Govern-
ment and the entire,Soviet population for the tragic death of
President KENNEDY, expressed hope that relations between the
two countriés could continue to develop peacefjlly in conformity
with the KENNEDY policy. President JOHNSON gave assurances that
it is his firm intention to keep the preceding ane of policy
unaltered. :

MIKOYAN then met with RUSK.

The conveysation lasted about an hour. The Department told
us that MIKOYAN began by repeating the ideas expressed to JOHNSON,
and RUSK assured him that the change of Presidents did not mean
a change in the foreign policy of the United States. In spite of
the fact that the two countries have different pdsitions on many
international questions--RUSK continued--it is nécessary to
explore the.area of common interests even if it is not possible
to conclude’ formal agreements,

The conversation was then devoted to problems of disarmament,
limitation of the arms race, and reduction of military expenditures.
Particular importance was given to the question of nondissemination

, 4
3/o/ a

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)



Doc Ref ID: 44268852

TOP-SECRET DINAR—

PE RUSOPAUIZCCICCI) aaa a/of__}73564- 63

of nuclear arms. On this last aspect MIKOYAN repeated the well-
known Soviet thesis concerning the incompatibility between an
agreement on nondissemination and the establishment of a NATO
multilateral force.

Bilateral problems were then briefly mentioned and RUSK
expressed hope that discussions on a consular agreement and
negotiations on cultural exchange can be fruitful.

RUSK then concluded the talk by affirming that, on the

broader international problems, the United States will discuss
the Western position with its allies in December.

MS -- CN -- TI --
