# 144-10001-10138_docid_6782161_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4268766

SECRET SPONS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

----

----

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10138

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

YEATES, EUGENE F.

TO

TITLE

ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSA TO LOCATE INFORMATION RELATED TO THE ASSASSINATIO

PAGES

AGES : 36/15/78

SUBJECTS :

SIGINT

NSA

OSWALD, LEE, PROPOSED RUSSIAN TRIP (1963)

OSWALD

TRIP TO MEXICO

CUBA, COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :7

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

Đoc Ref ID: A4268766

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

15 June 1978

SUBJECT:

Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Pelated

to the Assassination of President Kennedy

A.

Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NS?. has

performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of materials in

its files in an attempt to isclate data that mignt be relevant

to the assassination of President Kenneây.

Nothing of signisicance

nas been datesmined as a result of those reviers.

November-December 1963 - Immediately after the

assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scaie manual and machine

review of available SIGINT, including all U.S./Caba traffic (SA

intercapted messages at an averaga of 1,000

per day at that time,.

= computer search was initiated using Osvald's name as the minimu

For research criteria.

Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/Bew

and Cuba/Dallas was manually revievea (an

analyst invoived

recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,

along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet trafsic). Scmetime

during the

search, izens from the Oswale address book providea oy

the FBI were added to the search criteria.

I964 - warren Commission - The Commission, in the

person of Ailan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any

secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the

documents.

1i also appears that 2SA searched racords for information

on the basis of other warren Commission requests made informaliv

by Allen Dulles.

3. November 1975 - Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Cerations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SS)

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,

NSA reviewed jis Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military:

The search was also for material involving Marina Oswala, Jack Ruby

or Earl Ruby (= Harvest run was made).

traffic was also

June 1976 - Pursuant to FOIA requests asking for

material relating to bee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA CORINT CHANNELS ONLY

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

• Doc RefID: A4268766

SCORE:

of President John F. Kennedy, NSa again searched the files.

Strongbox searches were made on the following:

Lee harvey Oswald

Assassination of

President Kennedy

Earl Ruoy

Cobo Cleaners

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1977

1966 - 1977

5 .

December 1976 - Senate Select Committee on Intelli-

gence (SSCI) - Requested all the material we had available on

Cuban agent problem:

It consisted of 485 reports for the period

1951 - 1965.

All ci these reports were received

Staff Members.

by Committee

March 1978 - House Select Committes on Assassination:

Requested all data on Cuban intelligence netiork and other materia.

relatino to the assassination.

A11 'Cuban agent, material (1961 - 11

was reviewed,. as was material

that had been previously compiled to

respond to the SECI ana SSC requests.

As = result of the reviews described above, the followine

materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were

located

(referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs) :

44 USC 2107(5)(9)(2) (D) (i)

1. Four Cuban diplomatic, messages which contained

Official: Cuban comments regarding press items that discussas Osvale'

activity in late September 1963 to octain a visa to travel to

There were also comments on the assassination itself.

The messages are dated in the last week of Novemoer 1963.

2. Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban •

military forces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.

3. One 1962 Cuban Intelligence message concerning the

assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto

Rico) SERAFIN.Y

4.

One 1966 Cuban Diplomatic message concerning a Spanish

diplomaty in Cuba.

It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate

an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul CastIo Ruz, possibly

linking it to the CIA.

5.

Information in an FBI document relating to a

agent was supplied by NSA. Because this document

was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation

to the assassination.

6.

One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim

Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and

Davia W. Ferrie,

TOP SECRET

2

HANDLE YIA COMINE BRANNIELS ONLY

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref ID: A4268766

TOP

Based on these

extensive reviews and the paucity of

material derived, it is possible to state that:

"A thorough

review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or

suggesting Cuban involvement in the assassination of President

Kennedy. "

Eugene Yeste

Chief

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

3

---

