Doc Ref 1D: A4268833 TOP SECRET-UMBRA-

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 10/09/98
Pace:1

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10305
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)\(i)}

tee
3/0f_]t1254163| | SYRIAN COMMENTS ON POPE'S TRIP IR]

DATE : 12/14/63
PAGES : 2

TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
IONS : 1B

A 2

VIEW : 07/24/98

E

OPENIN' :
ENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

-FOP-SEECREFEMBRA-

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F



~ Doc Ref ID: A4268833

WS 10234-37

Dist;
ST 300

Msg Nr: 752-55 7
(4-part message complete] a.

When the Syrians learned that the’ Sovereign Pontiff had
decided to go to Jerusalem, they hastened to express their
satisfaction, as they always do every time they note any sign
of interest whatsoever shown by foreign countries with -regard
to the Near East. Then they went. on to express the hope that
the Pope would not fail to note, during his pilgrimage,’ the
harm which Israel had done to the Arab people of Palestine...

vee :

Finally, the tone invwhich the Israeli radio, which is
listened tol here more than ts acknowledged, praised thé event
prompted them to formulate,‘a few reservations, and a Damascus
newspaper went so far as to wonder whether President KENNEDY's
assassination, the attempts made in the Council to reinstate
the Jewish people, and finally the pontifical pilgrimage were
not all part of a plot instigated by Zionism to facilitate the
diversion of the waters of the Jordan. 4

I did not think it necessary to report these reactions,
which were as ridiculous as they were inevitable, to the
Department, since I preferred to wait [2 gr G] adopt a- position
by engaging in conversation first with the Chargé d'affairs
of the Holy See, then with the Apostolic Internuncié;,who
hurriedly returned last night from Rome. This morning, on
leaving the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Monséignor PUNZOLO
was good enough to relate to me the.conversation which he had
had with the Minister. Mr. MURAYID protested in rather moderate
terms agdinst the fact that Israel is seeking to exploit the

| 3/ of _|nz 54-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

ssination Rec of 1992



+ Doc Ref ID: A4268833

“POP-SEEREE-DIN-AR -

23/0]_mias- 63

pilgrimage he expressed the hope t that the latter, although
-it is to take place partly in Israel, would hot imply recognition
of that state by the Holy See. Finally, he, stated that the -
Syrian Government wished to invite PAUL VI ‘to visit Damascus,
the city of Saint Paul, during his trip. :

,

The Apostolic Internuncio told me that he had evaded this
last point by suggesting that the invitation, which will certainly
be refused, be made by the Syrian Embassy at the Holy See.

{1 gr G]) gave me the impression, with regard to nonrecognition,
that he had reassured the Syrian Minister and had given him

to understand that the Holy See itself was hardly pleased

with the manner in which Israel was séeking to exploit the
Pope's pilgrimage. Talking with me qh this matter, he was
altogether frank, going so far as to;say that the Israelis
would be well advised not to go too far along the path which
they have entered, if they do not want to run the risk of

a serious setback and wish to avoid having made "so many

(B val noisy preparations) [2 gr e)."

I wonder, since I know a little about Rome, whether the
Holy See has addressed Tel Aviv in such plain language, but
I confess that I was surprised By that which I heard from the
mouth of a prelate who had just, received his latest instructions
from the Secretariat [1 gr U] the previous day.

