# 144-10001-10364_docid_6782994_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4269397

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10364

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR:

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

TITLE

CUBAN REACTION TO DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

PAGES: 32/04/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

CLASSIFICATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESIRACTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

st

BC ReHD: A4269397

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

10R

DeC

63

CUBAN

REACTION TO DEAT! OF FRESIDENT KENEDY

On 2y November

Asbassador

Havane reportes te

following:

"Soon

arter the death of asident.

Kennedy sovard authosities and persons ascos1ated

8ith the Cuban dovermant openly expressed to me their

concern relative to the consequenoos in regard to

Cube and sure unanimous in bollsving that any other

president would be lavan worse.

"Anotner consern or the Cubans was expounded

in the unexposed spsoch by Fidel Castro on Sat

arday then

he accused the news agencies of trying

te connect tha Soviet Union and Cure to the

and asserted that the rasersonarden of the Unstea

Statos are trying to orate a state o& anti-Soviet

and anti-Onban hysteria.

"arches, yesterday the foraign Ministry in

ortion connuaique confined that the inicated

assassin tried to obrain a visa te cuba without

102

2001-69

10/3-03

-1.

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

Đoc Ret ID: Ă4269397

TOP SHERST DINAR

# Deo 63

in that ray,

to Involve beforehend Cuba

and the

Soviet Union in the events and ass trying now to

gover up the masterminds and road notives for the

erime.

"These nas

8o official announcement here of

Borrow for the death of the

President of the United

States."

144 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)i)

Note: On 23 Noveber the

Ambassador in Havana lad

reported the following:

"ghe reaction in Havana to the assassination

of President Kennedy has been calm but cautious.

only isolated Connunist groups nave shown ay

jolcing. The radio and nereals are reporting

objestively and an & correct manner, Mathou. 9h0

ing regret . maris missing! statement by the

goveranent. The nenspapers are printing today the

statenonte of the Cuban Asbassador 10 the United

Nations

- 23 Novenber Cuben uN delegate Lechuga stated in New York that

Cuba had received the news of the tragle death of President Kennedy

Wich deep sorron; that aid elvisized men airays grieved about such

avents; and that this was the feoling of the people and lovernment of

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 4

T: •

oc Ref ID: A4269397

TOP SSORSE DINAR

4 Dec 63

" (hard miasing] eircles were seriously

concerned over the repercussions which the assas

sination of the Fresident of the United States may

have."

-3-

NO? GEOREN PITAR

---

