# 144-10001-10115_docid_6782133_sealed

## Page 1

Lilder

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10115

E: 03/24/97

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF PLUS

TITLE

3/01

/T17-64:" JOHNSON'S PROSPECTS:

"DATE

01/04/64

PAGES

3°

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

...•

.......

DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY

J. FOREIGN RELATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

-SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

ER]

AMBASSADOR, WASHINGTON,

[R]

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

[RJ

[R]

[RI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SIO

UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS 18124-18129

3/0/ /I17-64

IS 04 Jan 1831Z P

Dist: HCF Plus

AMBASSADOR, WASHINGTON, REPORTS

: AMBASSADOR

22 Dec 63

JOHNSON'S PROSPECTS:

DISCUSSION WITH

FR Washington: 'Ambassadot.

Msg No: 412

•;

(Parts 1-6 of a 7-part message]((A))

I. The

Ambassadori,to Washington visited 'me and

the conversation

dealt with the domestic situation in America

and some aspects of the international situation and the situation

in the Middle East.

II. He said:

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

A. The world had suffered 'a great loss in KENNEDY's

death. It appeared to him that the killer was not a party to

a conspiracy but was a blind fanatic nourished by the radical

milieu of the state where he lived.

B. He added that he had accompanied JOHNSON :

as KENNEDY's Vice President and

that he had noted the following: [Part 2]

JOHNSON was practical-minded. He was not good at

listening.

He was an expert in American domestic affairs but

had not handled foreign affairs very much. He was impatient

and quick-tempered; nevertheless, he added that his assumption

of the presidency had changed his disposition.

C. He said that JOHNSON would be the presidential

candidate of.'the Democratic Party in the coming election campaign

and that the Republicans had not yet decided on a serious rival

who could beat him. He said that he thought that JOHNSON would

win in the coming presidential election. [Part 3J

3/0/

VT17-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 3 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET DINAR

3/01

T17-64

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

.....

... ..

D. He stated that their conjecture

was that

JOHNSON would continue

to pursue KENNEDY's foreign policy,

particularly with regard to trying to reach an understanding

with the Russians and calming the tension of the cold war,

although it was not unlikely that his methods in this would

be somewhat different from KENNEDY's. Nevertheless, he said

that JOHNSON's job would not be easy since he was facing

problems in South America and NATO and Southeast Asia and the

Middle East. He said that KHRUSHCHEV appeared to be more

anxious than the Americans [Part 4] for an understanding with

Washington because of numerous domestic problems and his dispute

with Peking and the presence of opposition to him in Russia and

some of the Communist nations. He said that KHRUSHCHEV had to

continue his policy of truce for many reasons.

He stated that the policy of truce might change

for unexpected reasons, such as

KHRUSHCHEV's death, etc.

He said that he thought that Labor would win in

the elections in Britain. He noted that they would continue

the policy of rapprochement with the Soviets. He pointed out

that the Laborites would strive (Part 5) for a further

rapprochement with West Germany and said that their policy

would be progressive with regard to racial discrimination and

colonial problems.

III. When I was asked about conditions in the Middle

East and our relations with America, I explained the development

of our relations with America and friendly nations over the

past years and how this development had led to results which

were rewarding to all. I went into detail about the period of

transition through which some of the nations of the Middle East

are passing and the conditions which had resulted and said that

tendentious propaganda was giving a (Part 6] false interpretation

to the events of the Middle East. I discussed our domestic

policy which is based on economic development in conformity with

practical and [1 wd G] methods, and the state and development of

the country and what we had achieved in this regard in the

roughest circumstances. I explained our foreign policy based

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET DINAR

3/01

VT17-64

on working for peace, stability and co-operation with all

friends, replacing disputes with understanding and dealing

with disputes by peaceful means.

[Part 7]

((A)) Part 7 not yet readable.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

MS 974

CN

TI --

- 3-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

