-FOP-SECRETEMBRA

Dare: Hea

Pace:
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10333
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : NSA
HCF 44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)\(i)

TITLE ’:

3/0 11422" 63 KENNEDY MEMORIAL RITES CONDUCTED IN SEOUL; GENERAL EL [RI
DATE : 11/27/63
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :
ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : —

RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT Buea : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98
ENING CRITE!
ORYGINATING AGENCY” 5 DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DAV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2
Dated: 24 February 1998
DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

Released on 08-12-2022



“TOP SECRET DEINAR

Ws 311-DI-22 se pe
A Is Nov 14437 P
“ oe Dist: HCF
ites . ST 300

KENNEDY MEMORIAL RITES conbucTrED. Ty, oe GENERAL ELECTION
BEGUN IN SUB-ZERO WEATHER

g@ Nez == Ha
[EXTRACT] ((A)) :

1, As the funeral rites for the late President KENNEDY were
being conducted, every radio broadtasting station in Korea praised
the achievements of President KENNEDY on every program and broad-
cast a special program of prayerg for the repose pf his soul.

2. This morning, beginning with the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, all public offices lowered the flag to half-mast and
some private families also displayed the flag at half-mast.

3. On 25 November, a requiem mass was read for the late
President KENNEDY in the Post Gymnasium at the Eighth Army Com-
pound in Yongsan, Attending this mass on the Korean side were
Defense Minister KIM, general staff officers from:each armed
service, and former Central Intelligence Agency Director KIM
CHONG P'IL. Z

4. A special sexvice for the late President: KENNEDY will
be. conducted in Myong-tong Catholic Cathedral from 1000 hours
on 26 November, and,. beginning with all cabinet ministers, govern-
ment officials and members of the diplomatic corps are expected
to attend,

5. The morning of 26 November on which the General Election
will take place was cold and clear, and the lowest temperature
at dawn was thrée degrees below zero [Centigrade]:

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE(S)

“FOP-SEGREF DINAR.

Released on 0

Act of 1992



“TOP SECRET DINAR—

3 fof }ri422- 63

6. The Céntral Election Management Committee announced that
the total number of voters has been ascertained to be 13,344,119
(Total population: 26,278,025), It was assumed ‘that the results
of the electiom would be known by the afternoon of 27 November,

7. Greeting the 26 November voting day, .both government and
opposition parties declared their hope that a" fair election would
result, and the!opposition patties asked vot¢rs not to heed any

illegal interference or pressure. [Individyal statements omitted,
Available if required. ] : 2

8, Takeoff of the special DC-4 Korean Air Lines plane which
had been planned for former President SYNGMAN RHEE's departure
from Hawaii at 1000 hours on 26 November -was postponed after his
attending physician, Dr. THOMAS MIN, had. made his final diagnosis
on the morning of 25 November stating that "Dr. RHEE‘'s health can-
not stand a long-trip by air." (Chosun' Ilbo)

((A)) Remainder of text irrelevant.

MS -- CN TI --

