# 144-10001-10068_docid_6782388_sealed

## Page 1

TOP

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10068

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

MERATE: 03/26/9

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

NSA

:0/ZK

3/0/QOY/R26-63:

ST SIGINT DAILY SUMMARY NUMBER TWENTY

A 11

AGES: 11/23/6.

SUBJECTS :

CUBA: MIPLOATIC ACYIVITY

DACSMFNEATION : REPORT

I, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTION.

URRENT STATU

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

ER]

-ER]

ERI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

UMERA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

REPRODUCTION/FURTHER DISSEMINATION PROHIBITED

WITHOUT PRIOR DIRNSA CONCURRENCE

ISHTAR

3/0/Q07/R26-63

ELECTRICAL RELEASE

23 Nov 63 2103Z

D: 022, 032;

072, 102,

141, 221

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REP

ORT

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

he meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those

persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

information in order to perform their duties.

No action is to be taken on information herein reported, re-

gardless of temporary advantage, if such action might have the

effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET DINAR

REPRODUCTION / FURTHER DISSEMINATION PROHIBITED

WITHOUT PRIOR DIRNSA CONCURRENCE

ISHTAR

3/0/Q0Y/R26-63

ELECTRICAL RELEASE

23 Nov 63 2103Z

ST 022, 052, 072, 102,

141, 221

PART 1, SECT 2 OF CURRENT STATUS: EASTERN EUROPE, CZECHOSLOVARIA

OF THIS REPORT IS BASED ON ISHTAR MATERIAL

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET DINAR

REPRODUCTION/ FURTHER DISSEMINATION PROHIBITED

WITHOUT PRIOR DIRNSA CONCURRENCE

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

3/0/Q0Y/R26-63

23 Nov 63 2103Z

DIST: 0/ZK

ST 022, 052, 072, 102,

141, 221

SIGINT DAILY. SUMMARY NUMBER IWENTY

Information in this report is that available to NSA as of

1900z, 23 November 1963, unless otherwise stated.

SIGINT DAILY. SUMMARY - PART ONE

WORLD HIGHLIGHTS

CUBAN MILITARY UNITS PUT ON ALERT BECAUSE .OF THE DEATH

OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

At 2043Z 22 Nov 63 the message "a state of alert is ordered

for all personhel. Be ready to repel aggression." (2/LR1/L

R11-63) • V/I military units were aletted at 2320Z on VHF voice

communications which normally link First Army Hq, Santiago with

Guantanamo City with the follewing message "Inferm the Chief that

by orders öf

(unit conmander) here, all of them, all of the

points, weire put on alert. (2LR1/

R187-63)•

At 20312, 22 November, Easten Naval Headquarters Banes

instructed Headquarters, Southern Sector, Santiago te recall all

units. A later message. from Banes to Naval Headquarters, Havana

reported all units have been recalled due, to the death of President

KENNEDY. (2/Q51 R665÷63) •

Operator chatter indicated that the. death of President

KENNEDY had been announced in Cuba. One Cuban operator Temarked

"There will be some happy people here."

Other special instructions from the Cuban Government

included: '

1)

in circular message dated 23 Nevember apparently sent

to all the Cuban Diplomatic Missions, in which the Cuban Fereign

Ministry Instructed the missions to make no statements. (3/0/CUD,

T1380-63):. 2)

to stay open all night an unprecedented meve, and 3) The Cuban

UN ambassador was asked by Foreign Minister ROA to ferward

immediately all possible data concerning President JOHNSON.

He was

told to look in Who's Who and was alse informed that Prensa Latina

had biographical data of this type. (3/0/CUD/T1381-63, 3/0/cUD/

T1382-63)• (FOP SECRET DINAR)

2.

-KIDNAPPING OPERATION BY

REPORTED

Page 1 of 10 Page(s)

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

