Doc Ref ID: A4269450
DATE: 10/05/98
4 Pace:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10177
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : YEATES
TO : SPECIAL ASST TO S/DEPSECDEF

TITLE :
D1/LAO-47M-78 NSA SEARCH FOR INFO ON AIR FORCE MAN CHRISTENSEN

DATE : 11/21/78
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS :
NO INFORMATION LOCATED ON REQUEST OF CHRISTENSEN INTERCEPT
CUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM/LETTER
FICATION : U

SS :
TRICTIONS : 1A
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA
ORIGINATING AGENCY’ § DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

Released on 11 017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


Released on 1 017 under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

sa UH Nine Bona St Ree
6 NATIONAL SECURITY AGEN:
CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755,

Serial: D1/LA0-047N-73
21 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY AND DEPUTY
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
ATTN: Ms. Judith A. Miller

1. The National Security Agency has made a thorough search of @
xecords. that might contain information pertaining to the Select C
on Assassinations’ request for information relevant to an allegation by
former Air Force enlisted man, David F. Christensen, that while statione
at Kirknewton, Scotland, he intercepted information linking an assassi:
nation plot against President Kennedy with a, figure in organized cr:

0

2. No communications or information relating to the Committee's
request has been located. Since no other component of DoD is likely
have information related to this inquiry, suggest you use the attache
draft as your response. If, however, there is any reason why the att:
draft cannot be used, please consult with us before releasing the
mation in any other form.

be

3. The attached draft response is unclassified.

Legislative Affairs

Encl:
a/s

CORBIS ay DRACHESS [NSAMCSIM TED ng
Beomet boas GDS, 20 11652, Cotovory 2
Dactsuity Upon Setivintion by the Orcinrtet AN


PROPOSED RESPONSE TO MR. BLAKEY FROM MR. KESTER

Dear Mr. Blakey:

This letter is in reply to your letter of 15 November 1978 to Sedeetary
Brown, requesting certain information relating to the investigation of the
assassination of President Kennedy.

Cognizant elements of the Department of Defense have made a thorough ana
detailed search in an attempt to find records which might relate to the matters
as recently discussed between you and Ms. Miller of my office.

The search efforts included discussions with individuals familiar with
relevant operational procedures existing during the 1963 time frame, a review
of records of stored files that might be applicable to your inquiry, ana a
physical review of specific records in warehouse storage (recognizing that
most records from this period no longer exist).

The search efforts described above revealed no information relevant
to your request.

Sincerely,

JOHN G. KESTER


~, Serial:

“DIR Fr : é : :
.D/DIR : te . 7 : Sate : ¥
ADPL- eo me Jatt

EX REG a -

“6c .
EXEC, :DDO._

7 . 68

: Exec, DDM

N33

DL

M/R: On 8 November, Mr. Robert G. “Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director

for the House Select Committee on Assassinations, posed a number of questicns.to
NSA regarding a former Air Force enlisted man's allegation that he had intercepted
information linking an assassination plot against President Kennedy with a
in organized crime.. Mr. Blakey subsequently submitted a written request
215 November} to support his verbal one.

ang i VIn ‘essense, “the questions probea NSA's ability to quickly ana thorou
| probe for records from the Air Force site in Kirknewton, Scotland AUSR-33,
now ernie , for information relating to the allegation.

ae

ED SAPP, LAO, 3747s, 21Nov78, liz“.

