# 144-10001-10109_docid_6782065_sealed

## Page 1

TOP SECRET UMBRA TE: 03/24/97

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10109

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

HCO

ER]

3/0/

/T1269-631* SEMINAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND PEACE MEETS IN INDIA IRI

DATE

PAGES

22/31/63-

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2XD)(i)

• SUBJECTS.

DIPLOMATIC

ACTIVITY

INDIA,

REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

ERI

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/11/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTFIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOrS

UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS 10245,

10214-15,

10246

SEMINAR ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND PEACE MEETS IN INDIA

3/01 /I1269-63

IS 31 Dec 63

Dist: HCO

ST 300

9 Dec 63

The Department

Msg NI:

1518-21

..

[4 part message complete]

The conference on foreign affairs and peace organized by

the "Committee, of Indian Parliamentarians for Peace" (my

telegram Nr. 1418((A))): was opened on Saturday by the Prime

Minister, who dwelt on the beneficent effects of the lessening

of tension between East. and West and on the necessity that the

efforts in this direction should not be interrupted as a

consequence of President KENNEDY's assassination. He repeated

the Indian Goveriment's-attachment to the policy of nonalignment

despite Chinese aggression, which it had been abliged to stop

by force, and pointed out that it is not enough to denounce war,

but that

it is advisable to find means to prevent it.

The only foreign representatives -- despite the efforts

Of DIWAN CHAMAN LALE, who incidentally had asked me to obtain

messages from

_and Your

Excellency and to whom I'replied that it is not our tradition

to send them to meetings'of this type • are Soviet, Yugoslav,

Ceylonese and British. Moreover, Madame NIKOLAEVA, member of

Mr. VILIAN, former ambassador to New Delhi. Mr. GREENWOOD,

Chairman of the Labor Party, read a communication from

Mr. HAROLD WILSCN but made it clear that he was participating

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

......

...

3/01 YT1269-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET DINAR

3/0/

T1269 - 63

in the seminar as a private individual.

As for the Indians, the (B val leading voices) are on the

whole either crypto-communist or left-wing members. of Parliament.

We might name Mrs. ARUNA ASAF ALI among the former. and

MI. MALAVIYA, former Minister of Fuel, and (B val Mr. KRISHNA

MENON) among the latter. The last-named, in his speech, made

a point of stating that in spite of the provocations of China

United States: "The more 'these two powers work together, the

better it will be for the world."

((A)) Not available.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

:

MS

CN

TI -=

*2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

