# 144-10001-10366_docid_6782981_sealed

## Page 1

Dớc Ref ID: A4269399

-FOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10366

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

-..

'TITLE

3/0

T1884-63 REPORT ON MEETING BETWEEN U.S. PRESIDENT AND PAKISTAN

ALE: +2/05/6

AGES

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

Doc Ref ID: A4269399

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS

-27269

3/01

/T1884-63

...

IS 05. Dec 2100z P

Dist: * HCF

ST 300

REPORT ON MEETING BETWEEN U.S. PRESIDENT AND: PAKTSTANI AND INDONESIAN

MINISTERS

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(DXi)

30 Nov 63

Priority

Msg No: 3127

1. President JOHNSON met with both ABDUL NASUTION, the

Defense Minister of Indonesia and Pakistan'g Foreigy Minister,

ZULFIQAR BHUTTO, separately. NASUTION, in,'response to the concern

expressed by the President about Indonesia's attitude toward

Malaysia, replied that Indonesia herself would not attack, but

would defend herself if attacked. I understand that the meeting

was profitable.

The President expressed his concern to BUTTO

saying that he hoped to reaffirm friendly relations between America

and Pakistan and asked that both Presidents get together soon.

2. At the

time of President KENNEDY's death, President AZIKIWE

of Nigeria wrote to President

JOHNSON saying that this assassination

indicates that there are deeply rooted feelings against the American

Negro, and that there is a need for serious consideration by the

African people as to whether of not they can trust the U.S. because

of the strong elements which discriminate against the Negro, and

whether or not the UN should be moved to another country. I under-

stand that President JOHNSON without answering the criticism

directly made a written reply on the 29th of November to the effect

that the U.S. would. keep trying to promote equal human rights.

MS 00 00

CN

TI ..

3/01

T1884-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(s)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 08-12-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

