# 144-10001-10253_docid_6760151_sealed

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4274900

DATE: 10/05/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

• 144-10001-10253

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

LAO

TO : DISTRIBUTION IN NSA

TITLE

HOUSE ASSASSINATIÓNS COMMITTEE INQUIRY

DATE : 11/21/78

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

INTERVIEW CONDUCTED ON MR. DAVID CHRISTENSEN

DOCUMENT LUPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : €

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 2

GC

Doc RefID: A4274900

5 to slans: P527e 0214

DON BESSAG

ER SEAS

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

21 November 1978

SUBJECT: House Assassination Committee Inquiry

1. On 17 November 1978, Mike Smith, GC, and I attended an

interview conducted by staff

members of the House Select Committee

on Assassinations in regard to the allegations of Mr. David F.

Christensen concerning the

involvement of certain individuals in

the assassination of

President Kennedy.

2. The interview was conducted by Messrs Kenneth Klein and

Gary Cornwell and was held in secure spaces provided by Mr. George

Murphy, Director of the Senate National Security Office. Both

individuals are authorized SI access.

•3. The interview was conducted under terms of a Memorandum

of Understanding executed between the Committee and OSD on 15 November,

1978 (copy attached) •

4. For purposes of the interview, DoD made available Sgt.

Nicholas B. Stevenson, USAF, who had been stationed with Mr.

Christensen at USA-55, Kirknewton, Scotland, in 1963. Sgt. Stevenson

was accompanied by ITC Jeffrey Graham, USAF, Air Force Legislative

Liaison.

5. The Committee staffers were interested primarily in Sgt.

Stevenson's recollections in regard to events described by Mr.

Christensen in a letter to Stevenson written in May 1978.

6. Sgt. Stevenson briefly described the USA-55 sitel

mission and confirmed that the Lisbon

link mentioned in

Mr. Christensen's letter could have been intercepted by the site

but, to his knowledge, had not been an assigned target. Regarding

the specific allegations made by Mr. Christensen that he had

per-

sonally intercepted communications relating to the President's

assassination, Sgt. Stevenson emphatically stated that he had no

knowledge of such an event, though in all likelihood, if it had

occurred, it would have been widely known within the station and

the probable subject of a CRITIC.

7. Mike's and my role in the interview was concentrated largely

on interpreting SIGINT jargon and emphasing the fact that the sites'

mission was and

remains properly classified CONFIDENTIAL-HANDLE VIA

COMINT CHANNELS.

8. The staffers made no notes and agreed to let us review their

report, for purposes of classification, on or after 20 November 1978.

44 USC 2107(5)(g)(2)(D)(i)

WA PONIT

BET

PHANAG QUE

Released on 03-28-2022 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992

---

## Page 3

0. 2-7*97:

308682

Doc Ref ID: A4274900

9. The staffers

remain particularly interested in determining

the name of the individual who Mr. Christensen believes relates to

the assassination.

They will explore means of determining this

information to include the possibility of having

Sgt. Stevenson

call Christensen and ask him for the identity (Stevenson indicated

his extreme unwillingness to do this. LTC Graham stated that this

request would have to be examined at policy level within DoD).

10.

If the Committee is able to determine a specific name,

the staffers indicated that they would probably initiate a specific

inquiry to NSA to again search our materials.

Prate,

EUGENE E YEATES

Chief

Legislative Affairs

Encl:

a/s

CC :

DIR

D/DIR

ADPL

GC

DDM

M5

DDO

EXEC/ DDO

G

G8

23:066026

501

via comrad

2

O. Y

---

## Page 4

Doc Ref1D: A427

4900.

65 No 1978

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

1. This Memorandum of Understanding shall govern the protection of

classified information of the Department of Defense relating to the .

investigation of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (Committee)

certai

into the allegations of David F. Christensen of involvement

inclivitoals

in the assassination of President John F.. Kennedy.

For such purpose, the Department of Defense will make Sergeant Nicholas

-B. Stevenson, USAF, available for an interview by a designated member of

the Committee Staff at a time of mutual convenience but not later than

November 22, 1978.

2. The interview will be conducted in secure spaces which are

authorized for the discussion of classified signals intelligence infor-

mation.

3. The interview will be limited in scope to the substantive con-

tent of the allegations of Mr. Christensen. Information which deals

with intelligence sources and methods will not be used in responding to

questions, except as such information may directly relate to the sub-

stance of the allegations.

4. The Committee agrees, for itself and on behalf of the person

designated by the Committee to conduct the interview, not to disclose

any. classified information which is revealed in the course of the inter.

view without the prior written concurrence of the Department of Defense.

A representative of the Department of Defense will attend the intervier

and advise the Committee representative as to information that is clas-

sified.

---

## Page 5

Doc

efID: A4274900

2..

5..

The committee's designee who conducts the interview may make a

record of the interview and written notes of the responses of SGT Stevenson

to the Committee's questions. The Committee agrees that any such notes

may be inspected by the representative of the Department of Defense prior

• to removal from the interview room, and any classified information which

is contained in the notes shall be deleted prior to their removal. 1f

any classified information is contained in the notes, the original

version shall be maintained in the Office of The Special Assistant to..

the Secretary of Defense, and the Committee may have access to those

notes as needed. Any record or transcript of the interview will be left

in the possession of the Department of Defense for a review to determine

its classification. If the transcript or record contains classified

information, it will remain in the possession of the Department of

Defense, and the Committee may have access to it as needed.

6. Nothing in the

Committee's undertaking affects. the Committee's

right to invoke in the future any subpoena power available to it to

secure and disclose the information related to Mr. Christensen's allega-

tions, provided, however, that the Conmittee will not disclose the

information until any related litigation has been concluded by judicial

action that permits disclosure.

toes

JOHN G. KESTER

he Special Assistant to the

Secretary and Deputy secretary

of Defense

Bans Behes

G.:

ROBERT BLAKEY

Chief Counsel and Director to

the House Select Committee on

Assassinations

---

