# 157-10004-10279

## Page 1

157-10004-10279

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/02/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY TNFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10279

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

TO : INSPECTOR GENERAL

TITLE :

CCS RELATIONS WITH ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

DATE : 10/10/73

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

MEIER, JOHN HERBERT

CIA EMPLOYEE UNDER COVER

CIA AFFILIATION WITH MAHEU

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

WW 50955

DooId: 32202168

Page 1

---

## Page 2

According to the above files, no member of the CCS ever

met with Meici. A CIA employee was introduced to and had

discussions with Meier prior to his departure for

There is no evidence or indications when or whether Meier

was made witting of the CIA employee's CIA status. The basis of

the CIA employee's

statement to Mr. Ed Mullin of Intertel

" that Mr. Meier had been sitting of the CIA 'employee's CIA

affiliation " (Tab F) cannot be established from CU'S files.

2. Attached hereto are copies of 6 memoranda (Tabs A -F)

pertaining to Mr. Meier. It is recommended that both

the CIA employee

who is now assigned to the Scandanavian Desk of EUR Division, and

the CIA employee- , who is again under contract to WH Division, be queried

further in regard to Mr. Meier's knoivledge of the CIA employee's CIA status.

Chiel, Cover & Commercial Staff

6 Atts:

A: 23 Jul 68 MFR by CLA employze CCS/CCB;

" John H. Meier"

B: 30 Jul 68 MFR by CIA employee CCS/CCB;

"Disassociation of RAMA fr Investigative Activities "

C: 13 Aug 6S Memo by a CIA employee;

" Summary of Las Vegas Trip, Job Assessment & Final Conclusions. "

D: 18 Nov 68 Memo by a CIA employee;

" Observations on Cover Company Personnel & Activities "

E: 25 Nov 68 Memo by a CIA employee

" Subject's Cover with RAMA "

F: 5 Apr 71 MFR by a CIA employee CCS/LPGLOBE;

" Meeting with Ed Mullin, Intertel " (Extract: paras. 5 8 6)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

2(23198

Cc: DDO

D/SEC

-2-

01479

SECRET / SENSITIVE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HASE MORNI

NN 50955 DocId: 32202168 Page 2

---

