# 157-10008-10022

## Page 1

157-10008-10022

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatio 1 System

Identification orm

Agency Information

Date:

2/23/201

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER:

157-10008-10022

RECORD SERIES:

DOD MESSAGES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 33-26125-5

Document Infe mation

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: DOD

TO:

TITLE: RE: JOHN EDWARD PIC

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/07/1960

41

HALF BROTHER OF LEE HARV BY OSWALD

PIC, JOHN EDWARD

SECURITY INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

03/16/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

box 466-2

v9.1

NH 47129 DocId: 32203530 Page 1

14

--.

---

## Page 2

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the ce:

ation at the end of this

questionnaire befor

answers.

All questions and state....nts must be completed.

ering the required data.

If the answer is "Noi.

Print or type all

fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification.

Do not misstate or ornit material

attach additional sheets if necessary.

If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and

The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

"[ERiRE) FIRST NAME- MIDOLE NAME-MAIDEN NAME (ll ANY) LAST NAME

• MISS

John Edward

Pic

STATUS

CIVILLAN

MILITARY ON ACTIVE DUTY

3. ALIAS(ES). NICKNAME(S), OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriago)

PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS

None

7306 Westville, San Antonio, 18x39

S. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year).

PLACE OF BIRTH (City, Cour ly, Slate, and Country)

PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED

17 January 1932

New Orleans,

Orjeans, Louisiana

New Orleans, Louisiana

RACE

HEIGHT

WEIGHT

Cauc

6613/4

COLOR OF EYES

COLO! OF HAIR

SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISMING MARKS

165

Blue

BJ ack

None

6.00 YOU HAVE A HISTORY ÓF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS! O YES EX NO

NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES' YES & NO

A lE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTEO TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU :VER BEEN A CHRONIC USER 10 EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? ' YES RE NO

ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES." EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20._

7. U. S.

NATIVA

IF NATURALIZED. CERTIFICATE NO.

CITIZEN

IF DEL IVED, PARENTS' CERTIFICATE NO(S).

DATE, PLACE. AND COURT

I! YES

NO

N/A.

N/A.

N/A

ALIEN

REGISTRATION NO

NATIVE COUNTRY

DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY:

DO YOU INTEND TO BECOME

N/A

N/A

MILITARY SERVICE

N/A

AU. S. CITIZEN?

YES 1/41

NO

ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U.S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL I AYS SI

YES _ NO IF "'YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

SERVICE AND COMPONENT

TSEt AF 11313239

USAF RegA

WIFT MAYSAP Hospital

DATE CURRENT ACTIVE

SERVICE STARTED

lackland AiB, Taxas

ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U.S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZ TIONT S VESSE NO IF "YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

26 Sep 1964

GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

SERVICE AND COMPUNENT

IRGAMIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION

N/A

N/A

N/A

MAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY. DRAWING FULL 'AY. FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUSY E YES J NO

IF "YES

COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

CCUNTRY

U.E.A.

SERVICE

CCMPONENT

FROM (Dare)

TO (Dato)

TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS- GRADE AND SERVICE NO

USCG

25Jan50

318an56

Honorable,

101 2714-923

USA

WHAR

RegAi

1Eeb56: 550058

USA

USAF

RegAE

Honorable, SSat, AF11313239

2059p58 155es64

Honorabla, SSgt, 4F71312259

EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools ant' military academies. Do not include service schools)

MONTH AND YEAR

FROM

TO

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

DEGREE

1937

1944 :=

Public Schools, Nen Orleans, La.

lione

1945 - 1:

Davy Grockett Eler., Dallas,

11

1945

1948

1942 J

Chambertzin-Hunt Acad,, Port Gibson, Miss.

1949w...

Arlington Hts. High School, Ft. Worth, Texas

1249

1950

10.

Paschall High Schcol, Ft. Worth, Texas

x

axisted or exists.

others you resided with or with whom a close relationship

numbar and place of issuance.)

teeperson nor et setizen by hire are dare sad dot of antry al a dise ration numar harue loan dronee

RELATION AMD NAME

...DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING

U.S. CITIZEN

YES

FATHER

EDNARD JORI PIC

MOTHER (Maidon namo)

MARGAURITE CLAVIRIE

SPOUSE (Maiden namo)

HARGARET DOROTHY FUHRMAN

OTHER (Specify) SOM

NiE DIHARD PIC, SRa

DAUGHTER:

SOM:

JA! ES NICHAEL PIC

SON:

LITEY ALLARDO

D

R99

UN YOWN

New Orleans, Louisiana

UNKNOWN

Fort Worth, Texas

22 December 1933

7306 Westville

New Yock, How lock;

San Antonio, Texas

H May 1952

7306 Westville

lion York, lew York

san astonia.

18 October 1954

7306 Westrillo 1 4 1985

Ne: Jork San Antonio, Texas

27. Fabruary 1960

7305 Westville

lachikawa, Japan

San Anton1o, Texts

3 September 1964

7305 Hestville i

San Antonio, Texas

•San Autonio, Taxes.

1/ =

OnCE

NW 47129 DocId: 32203530

Page 2

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE.

No DoD cajortion:

gible cisclosura

pironant to F.L. l6 -Jed, cheaptor dafp 6(3)

Exéeprion to Standard Eared 0s. 5. 31.

---

## Page 3

OTHER RELATIVES AND ALIEN FRIENDS LIVING IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES (List. grandparents.

first cousins, aunts,

brothers- and sisters-in-law, and other persons l'ith whoal a close relationahip existed or exists)

uncles,

RELATIONSNIP AND NAME

AGE

OCCUPATION

AODRESS

CITIZENSHIP

NOne

FRON-

DATES

FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a dire it result of United States military duties)

TO

COUNTRY VISITED

None

PURPOSE OF TRAVEL

13.

FROM

1949

EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)

MONTH AND YEAR

TO

1943

Jen

1950

MAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLI YER

. HAME OF IMMEDIATE

SUPERYISOR

Everybody Department Sters

Ete Worth, Texas

UNKNONN

Bart's Shoe Store

Et Worth, Texas

Rhoades

REASON FOR LEAVING

Schooling

Military

Enlistment

DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE?

LI YES A NO

DO YOU HAVE

ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER I EEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN

GOVERNMENT,

FIRM, OR AGENCY?

# NO

ENO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

HAVE YOU EVER 8 EN REFUSED BONO?

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

452-40-7470

1d.

CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relalives, former employers, or persons living outside the

United States or its Territories.

NAME

(Lise j credit and 3 cburacier)

eare Prebuck Co.

Lennie's Furniture Companz

sis Farge Bank

YEARS

KNOWN.

3

3

3

18

Conna etest

Munno:m

STI EET AND NUMBER

(Buss ess uddress preferred)

SW Military Drive

CITY

CHARACIEN

1201 mo Taith

Bees foulkes • Ou50Y

that

1003

1

3

2023 Herne 15

San Antonio,

San Antonio,

Fairfield,

Ete Worth,

Hempstead

Machikaira

Sen Antonio

San Antonio

DOD

:6 :

1W 17129 DocId: 32203530 Page 3

STATE OR

TERRITORY

texas

Texas

Calif

Texas

Hor.

Japan

Texas

Texas

1109911

---

## Page 4

I Answers. All auestions and statements must be completed

If the answer is "None,

in Willen

"so state. Do not misstate or air sape ill l

MONTH AND YEAR

FRiM-

1937

1940 ,

1944

1946•

1947

19/8.

1951.

19541.

1950"

1958'

1962

1963

LIST ALL RESIL ENCES FROM 1 JANUARY 1937

STREET AND MUMBER

то-

1940

..

Alvar Street

1944

Bartholonew Street

1946 •

Victor Street

1947

Unimorn

1948

Urinown

1951

7408 Ewing

1953 • ,

325 E. 92d Street

19557

30 St. Irks Place

1953

I0l Avenue C

1952

Tachikawa, Japan

19963

10 Ferncroit Street

Present

7306 westviltle

CITY

New Orleans

Naw Orleans

Dallas

Covington

Ft Worth

Ftworth

Neir York

Staten Island

East Meadow

Tachikara

San Antonio,

San Antonio

16.

PAST AND/OR PRESEI T MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS

NAME AND ADDRESS

T/PE

(Social, Iracornal profenzional, oro.)

OFFICE HELD

Academy of Hodel Aeronau-

Nono

tics, ilashington, D.C.

National Rifle Association

None

Washington, DaC.

17.

YES

NO

STATE OR COUNTRY

Louisiana

Lousiicna

Texas

Louisiana

Texas

Texas

New York

New York

New lork

Japan

Texas

Texas

MEMBERSHIP

FROM

1963

та

1964

1965

Present

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNI:

I PARTY U.S. A.. OR ANY COMMUMIST ORGANIZATIONS ANYWHERET

ARE YOU NOW OR MAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORI ANIZATIONI

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF AMY ORGANIZ ITION, ASSOCLATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE

OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WI ICH HAS ADOFTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE.

OR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE COI STITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF

THE UNITED STATES BY UNCOMSTITUTIONAL MEANSI

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED N ITM ANY ORGAMIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT, OFFICIAL, OR EMPLOYEET

ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH, NY INDIVIDUALS. INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE ARE OR

HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIEO AD IVE?

HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF, NY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTION(S) TO. ATTENDANCE AT OR

PARTICIPATION IN AMY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL. OR OTHER ACTIVITI S OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE. GIFT. OR DIS.

TRIBUTION OF ANY WRITTEN, PRINTED, OR OTHER MATTER, PREPAREE REPRODUCED. OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR AMY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITIEST

IF YES." DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES, ATTACH AODITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL JETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS. SPECIFY MATURE

AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INCLUDING OFFICE OR POSITION HELD. AL O INCLUDE DATES, PLACES, AMD CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS MAVE

BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS. THEM L iT THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGANIZATIONS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILLATED.

N/A

I8. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED. INDICTED OR SUMMONED INTO, OURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING. OR CONVICTED, FINED. OR IMPRISONED OR

PLACED ON PROBATION. OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR 'OLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (OsClUdinE

minor trallic violations for which a fino or forfeiture al 825, Or loss mas imposad)) INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. ' YES E NO

IF "'YES.' LIST THE DATE, THE MATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAME AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

11

DOD

NA 47129 DocId: 32203530

Page 4

---

## Page 5

19 ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUA LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFL ET UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM

THE DUTIES WIICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FU ITHER EXPLAMATIONI

• YES

SE NO

IF "'YES." GIVE DETAILS

N/A

20. REMARKS

ITEM No. 10 (cont 'd)

BROTHER:

ROBERT EDWARD OSWALD

DOB 7 Apr %?

New Orleans, In.

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

18 Oct 1939

Presently lives In

Wichlta Falls, Tex.

Deceased

American citizen

American citizen

New Orleans, Ia.

Address of mother and father is unknown t., no. I do not nor have not corresponded

with then.

(See U.S. Codo, title 18, soction 1001)

DATE

SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING FORM

10 May 65

TYPED NAME AND ADDRESS OF WITNESS ISgt Ral ih E. Gibson

SIG

OF WITNESS

Wilford Hall USAF Hosp LackLand AFB Tex

Raph E. sibsa

•21.

THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED 8!

AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTYGATION

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (tof socrot, gecret, efC.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS

SECRET clearance required for oversea assigment (Project TOP DOG)

RECORD OF PI IOR CLEARANCES

DATE OF CLEARAMCE

• TYPE OF CLEARANCE

'AGENCY THAT COMPLETED INVESTIGATION

#

REMARKS.

DOO

NW 47129 DocId:32203530 Page 5

---

