{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

[157-10011-10171
e j

\.
‘ ; Date:07/14/94
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY | INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10171

RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM W/ATTACHMENT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM :
TO:

TITLE : :
HOWARD HUNT EXAMINATION

DATE : 01/16/76
PAGES : 2 =e

HSCA (RG 233)

SUBJECTS : :
HUNT, HOWARD-
INDEX OF TRANSCRIPTS
CUBA
CASTRO

. |
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS :, 1A, DONOR REST. ,j REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P
JATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

“Reference copy, JFK Collection:

COMMENTS ::

(R] - ITEM] IS RESTRICTED



MEMORANDUM

TO: William G. Miller
Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Jr.
Curtis R. Smothers
Charles Kirbow
Bill Bader
Mike Madigan

FROM: Frederick Baron

|

DATE: January 16, Baas

SUBJECT: Howard Hunt Examination
|

Attached is an index to the subjects covered in the
examination of Howard Hunt! that Howard Liebengood and I con-
ducted last weekend. j

On the basis of this examination, it appeared to both
Howard and me that there was no need to bring Hunt to Washington
for any further questioning. Please let me have any thoughts
you may have on another examination of Hunt. The present plan
is simply to arrange for him to swear to the transcript in
affidavit form.

Attachment

cc: Howard Liebengood



INDEX:

E. HOWARD HUNT, JR. TRANSCRIPTS

January 10, 1976

Advisement of rights, and preliminary statement

Organization of SE Europe and PP Staff

Case

an-----=--+ 1-6
wenn enon ene e- eee -- 6-8, 18
pannnnnenne enn nnn n ene ee 8-23, 31, 33-56

Liaison to media and publis

Allen Dulles' decision-makij

January 11, 1976

Jack Anderson case -
Poison cigars (limited know

Drug procurement and operat
and Lucien Conein's caree

White House media contact li

Refutes Prouty allegation (

Nixon's role on covert acti
specific knowledge)

Disputes Frank Sturgis' quo
assassination unit

Tony Varona (no knowledge r

White House national securi

hing

ng, generally

Ledge) --------------------------- 20-21
ional use (limited knowledge)

lo nner nen nnn nnn nn nnn nnn ene nee 20-27
LSC cnn e nn nnn enn n nnn nn een eee 30-31

CIA personnel in White House) w--- 32-34

ion decision-making (no

elating to assassinations)

ty liaison

