157-10002-10105] [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date:09/30/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
@ IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10105 7
RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM HARVEY

DATE : 06/25/75
PAGES : 62

SUBJECTS :

ZRRIFLE

@ CASTRO
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
OPERATION MONGOOSE
BISSELL, RICHARD
ASSASSINATION
KENNEDY, JOHN F.
THE PRESIDENT
QJWIN
MAFIA.
SILVER, ARNOLD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : T —
oo RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Box 245
Folder 13

sft [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32281945 Page 1


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

al

12

13

14

15

16

1?

18 |

19

20

21

22

23

all

25

TOP SECRET ~

counterespionage for a brief period against the Japanese and
the Italians and the Russians in '41. Then during most of the
War, against the Germans, and then beginning in early '45 until
the middle of '47 against the Soviet service again.

Mr. Schwarz. And then in 1947, did you join the CIA as
head of the Soviet Intelligence Branch?

t Mr. Harvey. That is correct.

Mr. Schwarz. Is that also counterespionage?

Mr. Harvey. Yes, it was.

Mr. Schwarz. And then between 1947 and 1952, you worked
on Soviet counterespionage and certain special operations in
the Department for Plans, is that right?

Mr. Harvey. Well, that is correct. It was a particular
LOHSMNPemgencey

and for - .a: period of, I would think probably eight to ten

command and staff responsibility on Eommun:

months, I: headed a planning staff, along with that.

Mr, Schwarz. In 1952, did you go to ERE Se Reems cay

‘for the CIA?

Mr. Harvey. I did.

Mr. Schwarz. And were you there until. 1959?

Mr. Harvey. Until the end of 1959.

Mr. Schwarz. I understand, Mr. Harvey, that you had some
rather substantial accomplishments there, such as fehie "Berlin y/

Could you just very succinctly describe the (Berlin Tunnelf

1 OTOP SECRET



TOP SECRET

8 7
3
$
®B a 1 jioperation and then move. on?

Mee
3 2 Mr. Harvey. Well, very briefly, that is an operation that
< Oe)
7 54ers and I conceived some time before I went to

4 (Menti

5 Senator Tower. You and who?

6 Mr. Harvey. Ct, who for many years was one of
7? \|ithe, if not the most, knowledgeable senior officer in the

9 And one of the reasons I went was to attempt to

10 |imount this operation.
ll In substance, what it amounted to was setting up a fairly

complex cover within a cover installation

WARD & PAUL

@

24 Senator Tower. Were not what?

410 First Street, $.€., Washington, 0.C. 20003,

25 Mr. Harvey. Were notfmedd

HW 50955 DocId:32~81945 Page 3 TOP SECRET



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

®@

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10
ies
12
13
14
15
g
1%

TOP SECRET N

Mr. Schwarz. I have been told, Mr. Harvey -- is this not

Mr. Harvey. I did.

Mr. Schwarz. In 1959, did you become Chief of the Foreign
Intelligence Staff Division D?

Mr. Harvey. That is correct.

Mr. Schwarz. Now is Division D a division of the CIA which

is responsible forg

Mr. Harvey. That is also correct.

Mr. Schwarz. But part --

Mr. Harvey. But I would like to clarify it, if I may,

Mr. Schwarz. It was the division of the clandestine services,
Which was the focal point and was responsible for primarily two

things:

20 |research and analysis use which was handled in

We had nothing to do beyond that with the general sort of

Intelligence.
Mr. Schwarz. Did Staff D include within its responsibili-

Mr. Harvey. Yes, in two ways: complete control and

Docld: 32!

be1945 Page 4 TOP SECRET


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

HW 50955

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, 0.€. 20003,

TOP SECRET ©

coordination of any such efforts,. approval’ and assessment of the
security risk, and also in the direct procurement through
operational means abroad, but not-:in this country.

Mr. Schwarz. And by operational, you mean fentemiig,

5 [spa SERRg Sp

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
1?
18
19
20
al
22
7
23
4

25

DocIa: 32

8 peony that type of thing.

Mr. Harvey.

be covered as well.
Mr. Schwarz. Now, did a man call}
for you in Staff D?
Mr. Harvey. Yes, he did.

Mr. Schwarz. At some point, did §

Mr. Harvey. Yes.
Mr. Schwarz. said to you?
Mr. Harvey. @ to me and
Deputy Director for Plans, to undertake an operation in
Congo, one of the objectives of which was the elimination of
Patrice Lumumba. He also told me that he had declined to
undertake this assignment.

Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr Bissell subsequently have a conversa-

tion with you in which he also recounted the fact that he had

requested

#61945 Page 5 TOP SECRET

to undertake such an operation?

Led



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

3
3
8
8
6
at
8
4
:
3
4
a

410 First

HW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

R22

23

R4

25

TOP SECRET

13
of assassination is obviously a two-pronged subject, ours and
theirs. We spent countless hours over the years trying to
determine the parameters of how far the Soviet service was
willing to go. This was partly a question of assessment,
this was partly a question, to put it just as bluntly,
of self-protection.

I will try to summarize what I think are fair conclusions.

In the field of political assassination, although I cannot

document this by evidence, I have no question but what the
Soviet service has, does, and will continue to use the tool of
assassination to accomplish political gains inside and outside
of the USSR. In the intelligence field, I think you havé to
make a. distinction, the distinction roughly -- and I'm over-
simplifying this slightly -- but a distinction into perhaps
three classes.

One, their own ethnics or nationals. Sacondly, indigenous
agents of-third countries.And thirdly, the recognized official

staff officers of other intelligence services.

During the seven years that I spent , which was
the longest continuous period that I was exposed in depth to
Soviet Executive Action, we lost a great many Russians, a great
nae Germans, a certain number of Czechs, Poles and other
nationalities.

“Mrs.Schwarz. When you say you lost Russians, you mean

Russians who were working with the United States?

Docld: 32081945 Page Pte TOP SECRET



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

)

410 First Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003

RW 50955

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
ale
18
19
20
21
22
23
R24

25

i

TOP SECRET -
19
Mr. Schwarz. Anyway, it exists, as a combination.
Mr. Harvey. In other words, if you want to put it in just
these blunt terms, it would have been a lot easier for the KGB

to assassinate me, Renard Steer wing

than it would have been for

Mr. Schwarz. In describing the Soviets, you distinguish
between political assassination, direct agents of the United
States, and finally the emigres and foreign nationals.

Mr. Harvey. And’also -- well; not foreign nationals, but

| emigres and Soviet nationals.

Mr. Schwarz. That's what I meant. Soviet nationals.

Mr. Harvey. The most merciless, the field where they are
the most merciless are their own defected agents, of course.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, to your knowledge, has the United States

ever assassinated a defected agent or a third country?

Mr. Harvey. You mean an American agent who has defected
ox doubled?

Mr. Schwarz. Yes.

Mr. Harvey. To my personal knowledge, no.

Mr. Schwarz. What about persons who are third country
enemies of the United States?

Mr. Harvey. No.

Mr. Schwarz. You don't know any instance of the United

States assassinating any person who is in the non-political

Docld:32881945 Page 7 TOP SECRET



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

@

410 First Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

aE

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

R21

22

23

24

25

| TOP SECRET

49

Eyes Only basis, and the first part of this was the necessary
documentation for the authority which was later signed off on
by Dick Helms as Deputy Director.
Beginning on my page 4, your middle of page 3.--
Mr. Schwarz. Well, just a moment. Page 1 is a cover story,
not the real story, the objectives --

Mr. Harvey. It is both.

Mr. Schwarz. But it does not recite as an. objective, <
assassination or: assassination: capability.

Mr. Harvey. No, it does not.

Mr. Schwarz. Instead, it cites (e¥obtaidning. of code]

Mr. Harvey. Which, I would like to point out, was a

perfectly legitimate objective and was not in a sense, a cover
story except that if this project had gone so far as to the
actual recruitment of any agent for assassination or the target-
ting of any target or the mounting of any operation, it would
have been under this as a cover. But, those assets that were

spotted by QJWINN, for instance, under ZRRIFLE were also

honestly considered for possible clandestine procurement {Sf <9

So it's -- maybe I'm not making this clear, it's a cover
in a sense, but it's not a phony cover, in other words.
Mr. Schwarz. Dual purpose.

Mr. Harvey. It was a dual purpose.

Docla: 32:

TOP SECRET

281945 Page 8



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

el

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET ~

50

i Mr. Schwarz. You mentioned QUWINN. Was OJWIN/ an agent
who you did hold in reserve for possible use in connection
with the Executive Action program?

Mr. Harvey. No, QUJWIN' is an agent that I considered for
i

|possible use and used for a limited period through

for the spotting of individuals with criminal and underworld

o~—n—enacomememenememmencmms 000 Smears nD
connections in Europe for possible multi-purpose use, none of
ieee

whom were ever advised of the use, none of whom, as far as I
personally know, were. ever used.

Mr. Schwarz. But the multi-purpose use included as one
purpose the possible use in assassination?

Mr. Harvey. Only #he sense that had we ever been saddled
with a flat, if you will, command performance on assassination.
I might have considered the people spotted by WIN. as possibil-
ities.

But, you see, before anybody that is ever spotted is
approached for any operation and particularly -- and please, I
don't mean to sound pedantic on this, -E<dowtt=mean-to-—-- is
hu OBE

actually approached, there #s~a long period of assessment,
crosschecks, so on and so forth. This particular spotting
mechanism never actually want that far, as far as I know.

I only know of one use made by QJWIN until we terminated
him some months later, I don't remember the exact date. It was
before I went to .Rome. I know it was in connection with an

joperation in the Congo that was not an assassination operatio:

TOP SECRET Fabbn

Docld:32281945. Page 9



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

ill

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

24

25

Docld:32281945 Page 10

TOP SECRET -

51

and had, as far as I know, personally, at least, nothing to do
with assassination.

I have checked pages 1 and 2 and 3 and my page 4.

Mr. Schwarz. Are pages 4 through 7, in your judgment;

pages that were written by (ERR

Mr. Harvey. As a guess, I'd say they appear to be in the
same writing as these first three pages.

Mr. Schwarz. Are pages 8 and 9 pages that are written by
|you?

Mr. Harvey. Well, just a moment, let me get to those.

I would also like to point out that from page 4 that --
that is page 4, as long as it continues in the same handwriting
was . not a part of this so-called Project Outline, these I
would guess. were probably f

based, at least to an extent, on discussions he had with me,

S notes and probably

and certain.sort of problems and questions and principles that
I tossed out to be considered and cares to be exercised.

Mr. Schwarz. Then pages 8 and 9 are in your handwriting,
is that right?

Mr. Harvey. Pages 8 and 9 are in my handwriting.

Mr. Schwarz... And at the bottom of page 8, does that
indicate that you had a conversation with (ERCRREY on January
26th?

Mr. Harvey. Yes, it does.

Mr. Schwarz. And is it’ your judgment that that is January

TOP SECRET .



Pnone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

BW 50955

10

ll

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

24

25

TOP SECRET ~

52

26, 1961 and is about the subject of Executive Action?

Mr. Harvey. Yes, it is.

Mr. Schwarz. And it followed your conversation with Mr.
Bissell that you have recounted?

Mr. Harvey. I think probably that might be -- well, when
I first looked at this, I thought this, well, this has got to
be '62, but I am almost certain now that it is not. If this

is true, this might place the first discussion that I had with

m early January Qnd this is difficult to pinpoint

Dick Bissell

because there were several such discussions in varying degrees
of detail during the period in the spring, and very early in
‘61 to the fall of '61 period, but I did find out fairly early

on that had -- or that Bissell had discussed the question

of assassination with fAgnOWd:'Siiver, and this discussion at

the very least, had to take place after I know Bissell already
had discussed the matter with{Silvér x,
LY

Now, these two pieces of paper, well, I say two pieces of
paper, what they are from -- they are in my handwriting. It's
from a yellow pad, probably the duplicate of this that I used
to keep on my desk and just make rough notes of conversations
that I had, telephone and otherwise, with various people.

Once a week I would go through them and either destroy them
classified . trash; dictate from them, or occasionally save

them. There is no relationship between the material that

appears after the line two-thirds of the way down the page, just

TOP SECRET

Docld:32281945 Page 11



TOP SECRET

Hi 53
8
3
3
@ 3 1 before the ~ °26/15K8s,°, and the material which appears above
g
g 2 it which is tabbed SID G, tab 21.
: 3 Mr. Schwarz. That would be Sid Gottlieb?
4 - Mr. Harvey. Sid Gottlieb.
5 Mr. Schwarz. Doesn't the conversation with Sid Gottlieb

i

6 lon the 25th of January indicate you had discussion which included
7 |lthe word bankruptcy and you felt assassination was --

8 Mr. Harvey. There was a general philosophic discussion of
9 l|assassination and assassination techniques. There was also a

10 ||}discussion on a number of other things that were of particular
11 jiand specific interest to the communications -intelligence field
12 |}and the clandestine service's responsibilities aspects, if you

13 ||will, and as best I can recall this conversation, this was a

WARD & PAUL

14 || sort of an exchange of ideas and briefing session, probably
15 |; held at the request of Sid Gottlieb in my office shortly after
16 ||he either took over a new job in TSD or took over as actual

17 ||Chief of TSD, which was the Technical Services Division of the
18 ||clandestine services. :

19 Mr. Schwarz. Now the reference in the middle of that

20 ||conversation with Mr. Gottlieb to "Last resort beyond last

21 |iresort and a confession of weakness." That's referring to

'S.E,, Washington, D.C. 20003

- 22 |\assassination?
23 Mr. Harvey. That's obviously referring to assassination.

@

p24 |That's probably what I told Sid Gottlieb my opinion’ on the

25 |ljuse and propriety of assassination as a technique was.

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32281945 Page 12


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

2
3
8
8
g
7
6

€
7

£
§
Ea
4

NW 50955

tape 2b 17

10

il

12

13

14

15

16

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET”

55
of operational philosophy which I expressed to Gottlieb, that
the question then came in pure theory as to -- as in such cases
as, now assumptions, the example of 3 wrong, I am not really
sure. But the closest that I can come is that the assumptions Eee |
it might be desirable in a purely theoretical discussion and in
my opinion we were wrong. Whether I said that to Gottlieb in
the words that are here, I just don't know.

Mr. Schwarz. Who were the two besides Mr. Trujillo that
make up the examples of 3?
Mr. Harvey. I presume -- I have no idea, but I presume
that the logical candidates at that point would have been
Lumumba and Castro. By. logical candidates, I mean not that
we were considering them in this discussion as logical targets
for assassination, but that these.-were sort of the three
people that would come to mind ;if you are going to go into this,
these are three to be considered.

But you will: notice,’ if I: may:,.Mr. “Schwarz, "Framework of
ee te

sae : EES
Sid's job. & ee Be Memo." & fA the name of #hé staff

officer who worked for me in Division D at that time.

This “translating machine" was an experimental device,

done’ under += hoped for development/ ‘that I was most

interested in, because of the serious translation problem that

we had i"
So you see this was not a discussion strictly within the

framework of either assassination as a specific, or assassination]

Docld: 34

persas Page 13 TOP SECRET


Pnone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

25

24

25

Docta: 32281945 Page 14 : TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET ~

56
as a general problem.
Mr. Schwarz. Now, the material commencing on handwritten
page 4 and commencing in the middle of page 3 of the Sanator's

notes, reflects in your judgment the conversation that you had

and it is his notes about that conversation, is

that right ?

Mr. Harvey. That is my best guess.

It may also, however, include his own thinking. and: so forth
I doubt if it includes -- it certainly would not include any
specific discussions, I don't think,,with other officers,

because

pwas under specific instructions not to
discuss this as such with anybody else, at least without clearing
it with me first.

Mr. Schwarz. And he starts, for:example, by!talking’ about
“Legal, ethical, morale, operational problems” and so forth,

and that reflects the conversation you had with

Mr. Harvey. Yes, it does.

Mr. Schwarz. Down toward the end of entry 3b -- and 3 has
the heading "Maximum security" -- do you see that on page
4?

Mr. Harvey. Yes, I see it.

Mr. Schwarz. There is a sentence which reads as follows --
two sentences, which I should read into the record, three
sentences.

“Within Kubark" -- now, is that the CIA?



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First Str

HW 50955

10

il

12

13

14

15

16

nee

18

19

20

21

R22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET -

60
crossed in this document.
Mr. Schwarz. One way or the other?
Mr. Harvey. That's right. One way or the other.
Mr. Schwarz. Your note has a report to the DCI, the

January 26th reference, which reads in the first line

That is ) I take it?

Mr. Harveys. Yes,.I'm. sure that's fA

Mr. Schwarz. Then it appears to say f-a-n-f-o-r-n DCI
matter. What does that mean?

Mr. Harvey. I am not sure. The closest I could come to
that is a fairly illogical Fanfani,, and Fanfani. was never
even dreamed of, as far as I know, in any such context.

Fanforn -~ Burton Wides raised that with me, and I just had to
throw up my hands. I just don't know.

Mr. Schwarz. And you don't know what the reference to DCI
in the notes means?

Mr. Harvey. No, I am sorry, I do not, at this point, Mr.
Schwarz.

Mr. Schwarz. Okay.

Mr. Harvey. Are you asking me to try to interpret the
portion of this that is in my handwriting, or are you satisified
at this point?

Mr. Schwarz. Well, the other items, it seems to me, are
either not “important or are understandable. Maybe some of the

members have questions.

TOP SECRET

DocIda:32281945 Page 15



OhUREL
4, 7, le
2he Piog eee, Cac l oy os eH
i faiiro’ bet Ge"
: bung oe PIS Of. COW Ba
ao a isee (eg at

101A, / gi Cnateaatslincet a]

Hatley, p foro O- 2



SECRET

Ly

[Pace i ee. =]

7 Prog Ctrl CH, «..

. 4 Keeley i Ff PG ote
I. _ bhaeth Biffle? NG tel! Ee,
| frvgped = a Aa g Lbeoleo

G 9 a rrr

JO: TOege i tuko2. mettle fires ee terete
bet act Aviat ae ee

; a |Site AEE. Coa. Red — oS acted

Page 17

