(157-10008-10226] { 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
lepry

7frGrV

Date:10/07/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
C IDENTIFICATION FORM

ENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : SSCIA CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
RECORD NUMBER : 157~-10008-10226 . DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
‘RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
RECORDS SERIES : IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED
ofr fE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R665

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE : oe
INTERVIEW SHEET

DATE : 08/04/75
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :
, INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY SHEET. INTERVIEW W/
( MURRAY, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :. 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS =
BOX 437-3

[R] - ITEM ES RESTRICTED
WW 50955 DocTd:32903734 Page 1


43 7~ 3

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO , RK 665

Reverse ortmis ooouwent INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY O22 a

C AS SANITIZED / “
a eps {i044

INTERVIEW WITH! William J. Murray, Chief Latin A America. Division/Narcotics

8813 Postoak Road, Potomac, Maryland 20854, Agency phone: 351-4438, 4

REGARDING:

DATE-TIME-LOCATION: Carroll Arms Room 610, “hugust ay 1975 at’ 2:00 p.m.

PRESENT! DiGenova, Joseph E.

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

EXECUTIVE SESSION: _ YES _NO

HW 50955 Docld:32203734 Page 2


INTERVIEW AND. MEETING SUMMARY Page 1 of 2

ROOS

( } Mr. Murray is currently operating under cover and no one other FILE:
than his wife and two sons are aware of his agency relationship.

Biographical Information:

Mr. Murray joined the agency on August 28, 1950 as a DDO officer}.
He was assigned to the Far East Division. In December of 1950 he went
to the Near East Division where he remained as a Case Officer until
February of 1954. He went back overseas in April 1956 as a Western

Hemisphere Division Case Office January 9, 1957 he went to
Von approximately January 9,
60 he went to Havana as a Case Officer. On January 6, 1961, after 4 ic

Trujillo was assassinated, he spent six months as acting deputy chief

of station in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. He left there in

Nevenber of 1961. In January 1962 he went to Monterey, Mexico as
1-27 Chies of Basegvhere he remained until July 5.21964. (He was then sent

( temady ss

(0. Bagot, Galen es See CE CCAe on He returned-to the ~

states y chief atin American Division for
Narcotics.

His January 17, 1975 Memorandum to Colby

. His memorandum was written pursuant to a request from DCT

( Colby for any information that related to current allegations con-

-. “ cerning questionable CIA activities. He had never told anyone other than
Noel and the Cuban pilot about thematter until then.

According to Murray, the atmosphere in Havana was bombastic.
"We were alert to the Cubans' attitude towards us. We-knew that the
Cuban Security Service was interested in identifying CIA agents in
Cuba." Among the people, he said, were those both very friendly and
very hostile to the U.S. The opposition to Castro was, at that
time, very disorganized. :

The Pilot

The pilot was introduced to Murray by the pilot's cousin.
General assistance to the CIA by the pilot was offered. The Cuban
was aware he had been identified as pro-Castro and anti-U.S. by
Castro forces in Havana and he wanted to let the U.S. know that that
was an inaccurate characterization. So he requested the rendezvous.
He volunteered cto help the agency in any way possible and agreed to
accept stringent reporting requirements.

On July 18, 1960, after the contact had been established, the
Cuban pilot contacted Murray and told Murray that he was to pilot a
chartered plane to Prague to pick up Raul Castro Ruz and his official
party. He sought instructions from the agency as to what intelli-
‘ gence task he could perform. Murray immediately cabled Headquarters
for instructions -~ "I sought assistance from headquarters re
additional requirements." The Cuban Branch (WH 4) would have

5 Docld:32203734 Page 3


INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 2 of 2

( °  ecileved his request. He asked for instructions re use of the pilot. FOE:
Neither the pilot nor Murray suggested or intimated the possibility
of assassinating Raul Castro. They were thinking in terms of simple
hard intelligence re flight information concerning a denied country. [- 4(B)
He noted that Gomis aware of Murray's relationship with the pilot
and that all cables were cleared by@]iaMW On July 20, 1960 head-
quarters responded with a cable that made Murray "swallow hard" when
he received it. ‘It Left me rather surprised to say the least."
That cable said that headquarters was seriously considering the "remov:
al" of Cuba's top three leaders. (A blow-up of that July 21, 1960
cable (98941) shows that all authorizing signatures on the cable are
those of E. H. Hinkle.) .

Murray had never heard such proposals or plans or plots dis- .
cussed at thegHavana station or elsewhere.,, Indeed, he had not AC BD
spoken to Giiaaor persons above or below, bout such things.

“Not only was I surprised, but I considered the possibilicy of this
individual (the pilot) executing this,,type cf mission was negligible."
But he didn't question the orde when @omMaband-delivered him the
cable.03 (Me he said, was equally surprised by the statement in

the cable. This cable represented "quite a departure from the con-
ventional activities we'd been asked to handle." When the cable was
received there was a minimum of time (approximately fifteen minutes)
to tell the pilot of the request for action by Headquarters. He met
the pilot at a pre-determined spot and woke to him. He wanted to

( avoid the use of words like "kill" and assassinate" and so he "talked
“a. ° in terms of an accident to neutralize this leader's influence." But
the pilot understood the meaning "loud and clear." The Cuban was

serious, thoughtful and then became imaginative in terms of
possibilities, They spoke for 30 to 35 minutes while the pilot
drove to the airport.

When he returned to the station, Murray discovered a cable
from Headquarters, signed by Tracy Barnes which said to "DROP MATTER."
3 It was, of course, too late to "drop the matter” so all he and A(R)
@S8ePmrould do was hope that the pilot would not be successful in ~
"accidentally" crashing the plane and,killing Raul Castro et al.
The combined reaction of Murray and @iet@aro this abrupt turn about or flip-
flop on the part of Headquarters on such a sensitive matter was one
of incredulity. "What's going on if headquarters was our reaction."
"Tt showed inadequate coordination at headquarters prior to release
of the first cable." Moreover, such a turn-about was unprecedented
in his, Murray's, experience. In his opinion, Hinkle would bethe best
person to explain the activities surrounding the "removal" cable.
Murray also noted that he had ng personal contact with J.c. King on
this matter and said that ould have,done any briefing of King on|
Cuban matters. He did not know whether @iatiinad ever raised the issue|
of the reversal of position in the two cables with King or any other
higher official of the agency.

