# 157-10008-10246

## Page 1

(157-10008-10246)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:10/0//93

Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10008-10246

RECORDS SERIES :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANTICED

0/12/98

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R560A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

DATE: 07/25/75

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

INTERVIEN WITHL

SUBJ: ASSASSINATION INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF. LAST REVIEW : 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

ran

COMMENTS :

BOX 438-12

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955

DocId: 32203754

Page

1

---

## Page 2

INTERVIE AD MEETING SU. REC

INTERVIEW WITH:

REGARDING:

Assassination Inquiry

438-12

10246

DATE-TIME-LOCATION:

PRESENT:

July 25, 1975; 608 Carroll Arms

Messrs. WALLACH and DiGenova

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

MATERIAL SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S) : -

EXECUTIVE SESSION: XLYES _itO

H# 50955

DooId:3220375₫ Page 2

---

## Page 3

:

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

TOP SEOPET

Page 1 01 2

FILE:

This morning, Joe and I met with

at the carroll Arms for approximately

two hours.

George Clarke from the CIA's General

Counsel's staff was present for the last fifteen

minutes of the interview.

Background:

1948-51

Assistant to thei

1951-54

Chier Rumanian Desk

1954-58

- Chief of Operations Against Communist

I51 Areas

(Eastern Bloc) - (Operations from

/ Stationed in

1958-61 -

15-16

1961-62 - Special Assistant to Helms

1962-63 - National War College (June 1962 -

July 1963)

1963-64 - Helms' Special Assistant

1965-66

1966-69

1969-73

115-6

712-21

Chiet of Operational Services

Chief of Staff in DDP. (Director

1973

Clandestine Services)

- Chief Career Management Personnel

1973-74 - Chief Plans & Programs for Directorate

Interview Summary:

Bissell "out of the blue" asked

to read

I comment upon Zoogby's Cuban operations paper.

told Bissell that the paper/proposals "stunk"

"much like another Bay of Pias"). Appar-

ently, Helms also read and liked

comments.

After Bissell "left", Helms requested that

come on board as his staff assistant.

stressed that he was not in the opera-

tional line of command -

"I provided an interface

for intelligence information."

A typical day in

life:

- Screening cable traffic (7 - 9 a.m.).

Primarily cables relating to positive in-

telligence, to prepare Helms for his daily

9 a.m. hour-long meeting with DCI McCone.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

88-19 Gal 94-

55 DocId: 32203751 Page 3

---

## Page 4

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

TOP SECRET

- Prepared a daily briefing for the White

House on Cuban intelligence.

- Preparing review of books such as "The

Invisible Government" and damage reports

1.e., reports setting forth what sensitive

information exposed by book).

stressed that he was "out of touch with the

day-to-day operations of Task Force W".

However,

he believes that

• Harvey kept Helms fully briefed.

Harvey, inL

ordinary man",..

"egor words" ""s "past to

"one of the strongest proponents of compartmentali-

zation and need to know"

addition, Harvey had

a law degree and a successful FBI stint prior to

joining the Agency.

Page 2 of 2

FILE:

(including Helms and

noted Farvey's intense toy it ter "his pemple"

is sure that even with these people, Harvey was

likely to have been extremely close-mouthed.

55

DooId: 32203754 Page

---

