# 157-10014-10047

## Page 1

157-10014-10047)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JC Asgination System

429/BOX

Idenalication Fonn

Agency loformoion

ACENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY MLENUMBER:

SSCLA

157-10014-10047

HEARINGS

07-18-05

Docunion Indorotei

ORIGINATOR:

MROM:

10:

DATET

05706/1970

PANGES:

80

SUBJECIS :

CASTRO: FIDEL

OPERATION MONGOOSE:

JMWAVE

elA

TRANSCKIPT

CLASSIECATION:

Unclassified

RESPRICHIONS

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LA SY REVIEW:

02/26/1998

DRENING CRITORIA:

COMMENS:

Bos 2

vit.

NW#:55510

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 2

XNAM 2OS

TUR SECRET

The Tues Cutes Boat: R3014

Report of Proceedings

rowE

Hearing held before

UNVENTEAIIEO

1641532

Sonato Select Cormleçee to Study Coveramantal

Operationa With Renpect to Intelligence Activitiva

6270

Thuraday, Hay 6, 1976

Fishington, D. C

(Scenotre Dipe and Wante Carded ovex

to the Comatoice for destrsetson)

WARD & PAUL

3017 WILSOM BOULEVAID:

ARLINGTON, VA 22301

: (743) 641-0200

TOP SECRET

1544010

---

## Page 3

SIBLE GLAS

n ect

ne inaukos

Bolten

79071

WARD A FAUL

7 A

C*a

8

2X

22

23

28

TOP SECRET

133

---

## Page 4

C

WARO a RivE

6

10

1.8

15:

7 6

10

10

20

24

25

TOP BICRET

UXECOTIVE BESSION

Chuzadsy, Way, 6, 1976

United States Senste.:

Solode Connittee to Study Governnental:

Operationa with Asspect to

Intelligence notivities,

Washington, D. C

The Commetes

moe, pursuant to notico, at 2:40 o'clock

Dates. In Room G08,

the Carroll Arne. Notel, the

Honoruble

lichard S. Schweiter prentalay.

Present: Sonatos Soleiber (presiding)*

Also present: Jim Johnston and Paul Wallach, Professio

Biaff Menbers.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

0710

ка 745 NE N W

24

25

Senator

Schwetkar,

guess v0 Walt brear you in, 20 it

JOli

wil

stand up and xalae your right hand, do you alonly

seas the continony you aro about to give la che éruti, the

whole truth, and nothing. but

the trach, do helo you Goar

Xos: # C0x

Sanator Schine iker.

Be coachey

Me. Johnacon:

you beats for the recosd your fult

m8100 2

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

TOMISED

ACCOMPANTED

BOLTON

Mr.. Johnstoo.

name in

And " andorotand shat la

That is correct*

Ne. Jolinston.

Me: Bolton.

Mx. Bolken, wouid you state your ful Mans

Soyoons Bolton, Seymour

R. Bolton.

Mr. Johnston.

And

gehr

ON GO POONA

12

2. 4

26

18

40

2.2

24

23

Max Johnston. And Me. Bolton and

stace yous casacity in chas

session sonay?

Mr. Boston.

* on chief of the forter Staff of the -pa..

and

responsible for destings wiCh the Sonate Solect Connitzoi.

am Special Anoiszane to the Bp0, siStini:

in hexe as an altornate monthor.

Schneton.

and the crucorsion

Chas has taken place

to going on

the cocond tomy busically has resuited

accision to have Me. Lotten und

to. this cussion,

and do you understand

Yes, 1 do.

wohnston:

What war yous capacity. wich

2..

Agensy An: Ncvenber, 19622

In Movenber, 1963, 1 was the Chiot of Sta:

TOP SECRET

44444

---

## Page 7

470 His 5

N4 55510

of the ciA opetation that vas bared in Mand, Floride, cargesed

as 16s pelnarity responsibility for the Cuban operatiox.

Hs. Johnston, Mt. Nallach hos roninded no to penind you o

procedural

matter which, you underosand you have the wicht

Co

couisel

6

9

11

22

Ted. I do.

Max Johnston. And

you underatand

you have a right not to

questlons if you don't wish to, er has to answer guessauls

you consult wich: Counsel, la that correct?

That is correct.

Ne, Johnston. And you are appearing here voluntarily

without

counsal.

24

di S

16

20

21

28

24

25

that is poxxent.

Mr. Johnston, And goine back to duostantive questions,.

long di

you konain do: Chief of Stationt

What were the dabes of your service?

Tolkx I arrivod, of became involved Ji. the

Cuban

operations in the carly 1962x and 1 stayod chose ntia

June Of 1465.

Senator Acliwether.

What month again in "627

marty '62. I dant give gou the nonch:

senator.

because i originally cane down to Florida to conquet

& corvay of thie opacation to see at possibilities could b

corried out in cors de the collection of litelligence.

Later filed a soport on fo, aná I was Laser assigned down er:

TOP SECRET

00614052429405

---

## Page 8

VAMD 9001.

NWM

5

6

11

19

it he

1b

10:

17

18

20

22:

22

25

TO SECRET

Senator Schwalkar, And this won Called Jhevs, ae 1t7

that ke the oryptonym that the hyency lacd

fox che Miant, suation:

Senator: SChwelker And to whon in thas chain of command

a t

the Cia did you report

when you were the operating head?

Thore vera different people de attlerent

Whon 1 fixat want do Want, the task force contander wit

ME: WIllian Marvey, He reported then to the bor, sho toportod

3o the Directos of Central Intelligenoe, At a Astor point le

the operation; Mr. Harvey moved on to other farks; and Mr.

Altagerld become the chial of that partioular undt, and thei

aftor. Me. Piezgerald, Me. Mare was the houd of that

particular wilt.

And between Harvey and Pitzgerald,. I think thore was *

chor porios of cine won d fallow by the nome

was the acting chies of that particulan unit, or the diet.

I move forgotton the exact arrangemens thore.

Senatat Schwaiker, Sonotine duzing chis period did 19

change ¿ta title fron task Vocce l to 2he, do thas corruiz:

on not correct, us do I havo Le mixed vo?

My recolloction of that chronology wes. this

it was first colled bAs and chea Docane lask Force. W.. and i:

weane integraced back tate vur picision, which was the Most

dema sphere

DIVEStOR:

Senator Schweiker, hAs Preceded task Forde MY

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

•9

10

12

18

16

17

3) 9:

30

25

55

OUTSREE

Yes:

mate oft che top of m head,

mat's

ME.x

Johnston,

other

way

around

Just for tho Fadote, I think he was the

Thak. Focco l wo

first and sps vas ancond..

Senator

Schwalker, But In sun and subscance your duties

Wend:

basically the sans, whether it has task Force Wor gAs

Win do xi

macros and Piragerald, Mas

Ghat not 6:092

Well, I think you have to brock this portod

up into the phasos, arnator.

Too carly phase, 1962, was

docured an condag up wich an appealoud of what kind of an

In the contone which daisse

at thas conax lo other words, after the lay of Pays, Wiser Bag

post roacsos. had coco corduoted..

the Mpandetration: de the cri

decided chas they wanted to take anothor look at Cuba do ai

Incolgance and national sacualty brobtem.

dieselore, an

asses Stent was

so: be made

1l the carly period oi bime as to

shat kind of no operation coalà be run in pursuit de 0.5.

polioy Obinctives; which was to doc IC Fidol: Castro's

guvantnant could be

renovad.

And

woon that aspossuent una

Conauotos as to what sind of intelligence doezationa contain

conductad, what Xina of parominicare on other operations cout

be isna that was an initial

phase.

and that phase was approve

and put into ottock, but as Chas pporation was boing put fath

ottack the missile ordodo cano Cpon us, do what that was wo.

*natty carzida ta ica logical conclusioo becaupe the operacir.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

Aski

NW

5

8

1]

1:2

2.6

19

in, 5

19

20

22

20

24

25

TO SEALERT

thien

shatted.

Sonator Schwelker: After October of 1622

No, pelor so Dotober of $62, because: the

cuban ortois was in October of *62, bus the bulldup preceded

Its and our oporations which vazo: collecting Inbelligence in

Cuba dosoctod shis bolidup as Le war unfolding.. theretore,

the national priority became nor how do you take action againat

rides Castro, bus what is the nature of this soviet burleup.

And therefore the operation

changed

Then after the Cuban

mossle erisis of docobor of 1962,

she problem secare dnd be nonitoring the soviet disengagement

Eson Cuba, and khen there

WAS

another phase

aStor. whac when

tha Jovices wore out, Xustro was Coaxly recognized es the

aztablished power in Cubar and the probion became one: of

lookang at cuba in the context of was

chore sone ocher way tu

get a political change in Cube other than by military action

or by paramilitary accion. In other words, the onphoaie...

shieved so lcoking at the Caucco miJitary establishment: to

see de i coup could be pulled Fron richia, to

see it econoni r

pronouros could be pur ow. the cagero coatre.

So the casking od chis particulas unit ala change, and

change of nuances ald degroes during anka period, But 10.221

professional sonse it was Excusod on sne Cubon targets.

in that sense you ate correce, has at did so through variou

changes us events changed.

TOP SECRET

435

---

## Page 11

TOMSTORET

Senator Schwolkar,

Cathet was the calaclonship of your

station and your ascignont to Cenaral Lonedale? kas roje

did he play?

9

10

11

13

1.44

15

MeN 0C: 20000

2 8.

19

20

20

Matt, in the carly days, in the auly portod

of 1962, Cosezas tanadale was a monber of a group that was

looking at the badle problen of what coula be dons aguinot the

Cuban activity, Thia care up in one ot my previous conversatior

with Mr. Bazon

Senator Schwelker*

Are you talking about somothing ve

call Operation M0MG0000, are wa talking about Speclal Group

Augmontod, of what are de balking abpocr

Hezh, when I first cano lato this activity

In 1952x to principal peopleuchas scencd to be involvod wichi

It at thas cind were Robart Rannedy, General Lansdale, Dick:

loins, and Willlan Harvey, and the group of kennody, Lunsdal:

and Helms wore providing: 15 you will, tha guidance and tha

direction as to wherd: this thing should go in the early days.

Shortly after the operation une established and i as

In lidari, Lanadate scors to haro dodad out od

this parcacuty.

pictura, dia l was hol involved in the rashangton moancos i

this, so 1 all nos clear as to exaccly what was the reason ter

departuro fron this particutax scene.

senator Schweiker. And was that i do you tonembor the

SLyPcow/o, Oporatios Mozcoostz

I've hoard the ceratonim Operation M0N000E1.

TOP SECRET

DOCt

---

## Page 12

NOR SECRETL

that didn't Impact on ny liza nd that particular tine.

Schator Sohwolkes.

Ass rights

Mr.. Johnacon Moving to tho cine of the kennedy

assassination.

were you chier of atasion and in Mland

when

the Presidone was

assassinated?

Xos,: I vas the Chies of Scation and 1 dis

In Miami:

Ma. Johnstone

You: were phystoally in Mians on Novenber

22nd,

10

32

77

₴ 1

23

24

25

12. Johnston,

Did

you raceive av arders through can

channels to concoct an invostionsion

In any Fashion Late the

aazossinacion Of the President?

nolt, my cocollaction of that was that we

had requeste fox name tracas at

the ting tha: Oswald Wos

arrested.

and that was our contribution to the iniestagarlod.

Me. Sohnston Did vãu ceceive any order in the fosm ei

* cable or any othor fashion to corduet an Investigation?

I don't recall codeline one, but.

10d

showed ne s cable,

I would have to cornent op iti in schor

words this was in 1967. This is 1928, aud as you know from a

rocurd, I've beon In an ails lut of kign volune projects

242

that

sire; and i don't chans 2c is likoly tooe I would sexu:

* Spack Cir. cable, you Know,

on a pasticular day, 1. moan, i

have been in Berlin,

aos, Vicknam. My life has boen sotayu;

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

7

* *

10

11

12

13

11 4

15

16

1: 2

20

23

24

tharotore 1 da not codait a apacitle cable, la you ve got

cable; L'a be glad. to connent 0f lt.

Me. fohnston.

Walke I don't have one, and I'm asking you

whocher one would oxfets

Ma. Johnston.

J I don't secalt one.

And yous dodoment world be that there was

not a cible ordoring an investigation.

I'I cantt say that. I can only say that 1

don*e cocall one, buc i do recali that at à latas point, oner

Oswald was dotaines by the polloe and there was sond inveubir.

gatavo material omanacing eron that, we participatod in

nana trace activity of shacoves vos sont to de ef chat timo

Cron Washinguan, bocause I do recola tlias at the Ciné that

cho name: braces were

conducted, that

one. of che Cuban

Chat ve vece an touch wach at Ine, they die come up vieb i

tape Os & dobate which had taken place botwoon Oswald and war

member of the ble in New Ocleans;

and you know, chat sox. ef

sticks ia my mind as

an évent of shat passioutar cine.

comronsod en de. and as 1 zacalir

Corwarded

the Capos to

Wishingsan.

Senhtor Schweikor. Mak was Brisgoles e ocoup, was fum

no20

25

that was the DNC, the Birdocion Rarolurii

Senators schwecker, Wasn't Curloe. Bringuler razl

i'm pronouneing le azonar involved in that, uné wasnti hia

TOP SECRET

0LTd:02425455

---

## Page 14

TOP SECRET

2

6

8

10

11.

ansociated nate you tolka as chas cane?

Nolt, I don't cocall that spectic name,.

Senatory ar this

Camer

Ke ald have a coistionship

vich tho brr. ve alo deat

with e hanber of their toy

Leaders*

Ne, sohnsion loc me cone back lo chat labor.

Did you recoive any orders not to invoselgate an acco.

to conduct an investigation of any kindo

No, I donte recal

Locoiving any cocb orderie

this

tine period, November

• 22nd,

boverbor i3xd, 1961, What was your capsbility in regard

conducting an hovestigation enoug: Cuban exiles, and with cobal

00106037

1%

Walex In relacronohas to Cubans Living di

Uncued States, I would way thas dur capabillry was quito

the

good.

17

16

29

80

Now,

4ì you are reforcing to out capsbility do conduar

an Envoorsonion in Cuba, & would havo so bar ic was linatou

have to kick where specklically you ate retorking to. in

aches words, if you're talking

in the ar4

22:

20

24.

2.5

exiles du the waitod Stakes, and your ander i

That 1e woulá have baon quite pood.

#c. dahnosau

Second lp, wich

rogare to coltectis

intelligence

us: to possible cuban anvolvonene

TOP SECRET

Doc i di

---

## Page 15

9

20

12

4, 4.

16

17

2.0

Pron Cuba or in Cubar

Ne: Johnston. Ang ochu source.

Moll, if you're talking about collecting

infornation 1n Cuba ii

Me. dohnatori. 1 zac:

7 would thon have te be focused apecificatly

or.

diftezent goograghic ascaa*

In other words,

BA

exanole, e you cold no 1 wint sono informacion on e spocitio

tows in the province of Minar del Rio, that probabiy was

vichin our capability at that time bocaudo va had a tacher

excensivo network in Pinas del Rio. lf you had sake to mer

pou know, in that somo timoreare on chis day, I want you to

conduce a kind of an investigution in the provinco ol Camayuuz

I probably would hove had to say, you know, vetre not as well.

agutpped, because our coveroge varied from province: lo provinia

Mr: Johnaton: Did jou have souedos : and I nean spocife

aviave station, did davve station control sources in Cuban

intolligencet

OO.C: 20003.

82

124

20

I don' co0all that we had any state offirs

che: Cuban intelligence dervice under out controte le mar

Have bour Involuod in soto double agene operazione at that El" "

tus corcadny we did hoc navo e staff officos penetration of

che Fuocn sanvices.

te. dohmston.

Did you evoi receive ary iders to conta:

anacevar your contacte were in the Cuban incelligence, to

TOP SECRET

Doc a524

54151

---

## Page 16

TORTECRET

3

20

11

1 2:

C

1.4

15

16

20

# it wist Arrant. 5.C., Waving

24

Inquiro Abous the dosatatnation of Presidant Kennedyt:

I don't recall recolving any much Inaurucion.

and that avat decue co you on your own?

well, I thank of you probably ped troy no

of the craftie, vo die come dp on bur oun wich campilage of

opinion. what was happoning In the Cuban community

We were

reporting What was contino

out.

od Cubin: in terms of information

brought by, you know, telugees,

macariad

chat was being made

available through prople carcesponding and so forth, yes, e

ware sonsitive co thao particolar problen.

Hx 4

Johnstor.

Buc aid

10e affinhtively go cut and

seck the internation from: dourcos "D Cuba?

wear, to Che extent. thas this vas avatiasio

to is, you know, we had lots of agents. it you're asking me

Cnd we send sp Si acasage and tazk a spentfic ayent co

condoct an: thostigarion, nor did we tend then a radio message

oI sonothing like that, I dont cacall one.

Mr: Johnstone: Why didat you do chat?

My recollection at shia l8 that ve tole

thac the nacure of ous capability was to sinoly cuspond ti

What we: wace: ablo so obtain in bao: Miami areas and: Erom out

sourcas in a passivi way, because

chia was. an. Savestigaton

Chise was beine conductoo in the United States with cho prima 2

couponsibally wich agencies other chan diAr

¿ohnston. ¡ guess i don't quite underacard the dock!

TOP SECRET

NWIt

Воска:

132425455

---

## Page 17

TOP SECRETAR

B:

..$

10

1X

3,2

14

1 5

16

245%

20

because the CaA did hars Corpons blade and dectinty cho

capabilicy to collect information Iran Korolgn Countries,

Wa27, we had

no zeason at the pareicular tina

so. foel that thate was any kind of a cass, hard infomationi

chas the Cuboss wore behlod the asaxerination.

Is chos worda, vas knor, at that bartluctat perlod to

cine there vero a Large nunber of ripors, goasip, in tha

Cuban Cosmoldy those that gane to oue astontion were

raportade and ve txied to put then in sons parspactive, char.

¿o, who was the individual, uliar access did he havo: to this.

dats and. so

forth.

1ur we had no parsuasion chas this was boing mounted

In the cheons de thar purt cular time

Ni. Wallach, I wonid ilke ta ask a couple ot questions

by way os factoround and les in go right back to his Jire.

ot quustioning:

Maling che period as exaplary, Carober du 1953 v

detaser of kos, akay.

Dan wallach.

mich i take it Mouto be fairly indicativ

ot shas was going on in May, line, daly wi dayas, of cho

san Jeas, I wone to pick a fairly scardars roach for that

period.

24

24

2,0

It*s my

understanding that in adlicion to getting posit

TOP SECRET

LIAN

Doct

---

## Page 18

3000C)

19 Me: 12: 10:107195

m: 266-

11

1. 0

15

16

19

20

2. 2.

23

24

20

TOPISECNEN

Intelligence from refugecs, eton, coning to thilacomert,

that your atacion did operate agento and did have sources,

whatever

tarms you wnt to ucer inside Cuba, is that dorcect

Tas, vo did have sourcos inaide Cuba.

sould you brletly for the record ir

Me. Wallooti

(Pause)

Mr, Wallach, What I'd like to do very briefly for the

cocord, as you know, I think you had an inbervion with Mr.

Bacon and wont into it with you, but vory briefty descalba

gendzally the tyoe of operations that your station

was conduct.h

Well, an She Cirst EnsLance we nose engagra

in forolon intelligence collection activities, that is tryi

to establish informacion which tulatod to tha

Plans, intentia

capabizittes of the Cubao. government,

Ile Were

3) 80

involved in counterintelligence operations, that is, tryins

co: Liguze out what the Cubans vere doing in terme of chois

Intelligance operations in che united States, ot chrough ene

united sences into central and balin Anorloa.

We tiere siss

involves in propaganda operations avainst Cuba, and covert.

action in the bonse of trykng to establish doncact with

dissident military persomitties in Cuba.

Mr. Wallach Wichout naning nanes, did you in the rat:.

period I*ve boun calliag duche, Datobor of 1263, have eleel

sources ds agents lately Mlonly placed within the Cubar

TOP SECRET

34100

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET

povernmont?

2

6

10

12

14

46

20008 29

20

22

23

25.

Ionle think in there

I'd have co got a

batter dolinition

fron you of what fe highly placed. It you

are kalking about fidel castro and his innadiato encouzage i-

MI: Wallach» Paople Who could possibly have been

metings or dinnez with Contro, or meetinga with Castro.

don's knew enough about how Cantro operated.

I vould say 1f you ate talking about consbouy!

vho was & member of his inmediate ontourage and who was dealind

with hin in a govornmental

chen the answer is no,

but

did have people who were on the periphery of chia..

1o, they woultilk have been nador participants, but they

What

Would Tave bien in social contact with castro or mombers "t

115

antourage*

Mr. Wallack, Row about parsons within the poly whacever

correct

hame

for Caban intelligence is:

well, ogain as 1 montlonod earlier, we hau.

no stafe officer penetracion. of the Cuban

We had none reporting on people whe

were

in touch with ::

yozious

#ouders in the Cuben intelzgence, and 1t

was :all

+16.:

social or

Enmiy on other contost that shoes people were.

roporting on.

Me. Valloch.: 0o for vocall at any tine In 1962 or 10rd

the

fact

being brougos to your

attention that certain Cubat

agenes out ot nov fork cicg mano dcually beginning to rue

TOP SECRET

NWHHISS-10

DO01d/32425455

---

## Page 20

1. 0x44

20008 9'0 Voicraig Melts lie die

NWH

Woe

TOR SEGRET

2

3

4

20

12.

13

15

16

12:

20

21:

aasdosination plotaagainst: Cuban exite Leaders down In

Miami 2

out of new Yosk? No, i don't rocall hair

One

thing, Just balose wa Loave Eids,

so we don"t have an

Incomplete record; you asked no the other kinds of operationa

that ve wece

running

We were running a full scopa of par

military operations against: Cabar that In, we woro pucting

people back

Into Cuba who hoy have.

come

from a particalar

DrOVInCO:

and who chan wenk into the bush and lived in the

bushi, and ve

: Nept

chom supplied with food, arns, barie

equipment.

Ke.

have sadto contact with them;

He Hero

Involved in zaida againat the Cuban coast, wa wore involvas I

putting caches

into End Cuban 20a2t.

Senator Schwelker. boos that. finish your point?

(a5/

sit, thatts toughly. tt

Senator Schwelker, Folloving

p. this other quaatsor

was day

one pare of your Job pluoding intelligenos Inaka de

this gaven tire?

Was chone any concern during sour einstrans that you war!

anvolved: in Cuban operations ist

intelligence leaks fron vas

country: to theirs thrown! the Cubat Irollagence systent.

Was this ever o considezation: be priority at you as

Gracion Chieft

LO

that

45 705"

25

Xos, in come it - wette yes, the answer

Now; let me elaborate e

TOP SECRET

124261501

---

## Page 21

коліто 3 Луги

NARY

6

20

72

131

14

16

27

18

12

20

22

23

24

25

TO A SECRET

Wa had a Jutladlatlonal problem,

Tos asanco, a Caban

mint dotoctod In the United Statch or bolng suspected of being

a Cuban agone vould havo been a case that wa vould have had

to have coordinated with the fat, and assentlatly the fbi took

primary

action on this.

I cocall

one ense. where

we detected a Curan ggont in the

Onitod States, and cho coso vas translaxced to the bureau and.

I: involved a Lindanental judedictional Issue, which vas

clearly the bureau's right to take that partloular casc over:

so in that sonse,

the printy

responsiblitty

in the Miamk

ores in the comterintolligence sonse thas you are discusing:

Sonator, wostd have restod with

the Barcas.

Senator Schwelker:

Old vou ever attempt to find & leak

by biscing one of

our agents into the systen to plug d leak?

I mean, was it over that

msen-tuda: 0f concorn attachod?

No, I don't recall that kind of a case.

other words, I do rocall cases whore peopla cane due of Cuba,

gave us a blocy

that we did not pecessarily bolteve, where

we would turn then back and

send

chom back to cuba, so chat

ovar a longor pariou of tine ve could dotermino chat de is thi

tnoy were scally attor, what they wore trytry to do. In ot

wads, were 4047

to cone into the Unitod Sthres. to

penetrate and Umigrate, wero they trylag co. get fa touch axli

it no, why. But de was die dave

back. into tho Cuban context.

TOP SECRET

52425435

---

## Page 22

TOO SECRET

Passia Kind:

2.

sanator sohwelker. chie is a cough queation po anawer;.

bus: at that period of time, how successful in your opinion: wai

the cubion Intelligence syaten in doing some se that penetrati

I realite that ve had a lot of citan exiles here, and 1541

pretty hard to tol) the players from the

scorecacd ve act in.

It as a tough relevans guestion, but t wonder how you would

9:

10

11

Well; I thilk it would be fair to aay that

given che Cuban propensly do talk ' in other vords, you haro

co stars off vith a fundamental point of departure that if por

gos tuo Cubanb that havo got. d soccet, ft

ls nos going to t

i secrets boonues they do talk; and theodore choy ali conser.

13

14

17

20

22

2

26

Our biopest problen in maintaining sacurity of par oi

operacions, Ron as an infiletarior opatacion jato. Cuba to

put dis li sache or sun a commando paid or put a person back

in was

to natniain security.

The onty way no couza do it would

Do to take all participants of thas operation ent

take chem

one of the Cabos communasy and in

fact

isolate chom for d We

of con days de more prior to the counting of the operation

tha they woultart tolk, and we could know whore they voujd

be constantly, 24 hours & day. And wichun that meltou, I Cind

1l: 40 oa10

to say

that the Cuban Ineckligence sorvice aid fax

sono, agents and couto be crocco to lave a gonerat

kod) fa.

the pudge

of the community at that tide.

TOP SECRET

Doci

---

## Page 23

7

15

14

12

19-

22

24

TOP SECRETI

senator Schwotker, Duelng Chat kano Lina Frone, or

during the time trane that you vere eracion Chiof, Wat ara

some ether Cuban scopps chat yon vorked vith chat come to

I have mentioned Dil. " fealize thore vere severad

ilfferent on0s7

any ochors parcioularly thas vecu holpiu and workad with

you Ilke the DRS?

Wallr che pie was the moin group bacouse

what had hopponod la alçor tho pior prior to che lay de ligs

choce vas a great collaborasion batkron CIA and

a muriber al

chese gzoups:

xetox the Bay os 9190, the dialogue with theas

gralis sort os drlod up, and during ry tonure,

the maun gxox

tas ve: worked wich in that ponse as an siganizational cuti

aS tI DRE bocanse choy has & Joe cê sotive, Anagliative

young studone desders who: bad

contacts thcoughout: the feste:

Homisphere whe wexe 994a14

ancorested dn ustag

thon an tira

propagando and covers

accion dense in Contral. ard latir

ansich as no ware ascually uring ther abalnat: Cuba iteek?,.

Senator Schwoskeс..

Where did Alche Se fas ex vire K46

We aid not navo un organizacioual colati

wich Alpha sei Alpho 66 sas An boing:

He monitored thext

activistes se that ve would nos whar they were going to 19a

Caid5

aysinot Cuba: he muy have had papple uno as ona ciri

ex anoches waxe sa ove paron, bacy

¿das who leis us fos

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

2

4.

10

23

19

1:6

1.9

21

22

2

1,0

ons

reason:

de anothor, and nor havo endod ap to Nipha 66:

Senator schwelonide coalias shot one of the ottom

Intellignce agendtes Might have: had a ilation or working

operatica with: Alpha 65, hot the ClA, is that corzoot?

Tos, I think i: you know. in the back ce

kay

manory I bolteve that ono of the military ervices

senscor Bohwe tkor,

Might 1e have been the ariz

TriteZilgonce?

My recoitection, it was probably a mizisary.

service, and it probably was the Army, but I would have to

chock the record.

Senstor Schwesker:

We diod wire intorned; and 7 ira;

vendorod if this

Was your resollection,. Chas as sone point

sone de the operations get a little bit overlapping and

duphicating, and that the boate would i In sinplityly it

oh course, but thas the boots weren*t coordinaund tod wordy

and du one point le got to be a problen with whoeves olse

was involved, and that finally an agcochent was worked out

wiS) Army intelligence chat all de boace would se supplici

ui did tristoad of having them sord of fly-byrnightino and.

possiuly hoss up sono things becanso ol dusiication of contie

Do you socali any of that at all?

wall. I think there were perzoss when

Errormone was putting a clam-dorn on tetugee pratt

110 ENg

Gue.

and the whole apparatus of goramment, Cocat dus:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

So (Na 292) -349

dip Fort Direet, Jew. Wastinaton, Cc: 20500

NWH

3

10

1.3

144

3. 6

17

16

210

29

83

1124

26

TOR SHARET

Custons, Trotgracion and Meturalizatios, POly Cil, vare workd

togothor to try to keep these operat cha free going to Cuba:

In.

that cuntoxe

the military did have sone problems, lout

my recollection pE that, senator, do that we put them into tho

coordination mochanden that we had for getting bonts out. 1

doo'e rocall our taking theis boop)e

Sonator Solvelkar, I mighs have acated ie srong,

What: do you moan by e coordination mechanian?

volt; for inoranco, wa tad, lebts say, for

the nonch ot octobar 1950, we would draw ap

an operationer

plan in Septenber. In the course of that operational plan ind

would have a nunbot ot

jenced to che lack of the poor?

Ent liration masione schedulod to rue in caches, Vete hate

¿ nonbce of misstona schoduled to

Dut

in toons or to take

poopie 046 DE Cu03.

Ka'd have a nunver of missions

do condues cosmando zafle againes lixed: Inavazlario.

so we wonta draw up. the schedule and coochinate

tho

sobedule with the appropriate agencies Lant toast Cuata do

custons po chat we could nove dur boats is and out and inot

causo the U,S. dovetinent, do exuend manhoses and money do

raving our boats*

anator Scorolkor.& think that is whac i had in rzai:

hail thorofore, on ails conodule, when sa

worked thie out.

we chechipre would took 00 6ho military

operations

and work this ous so that there was &

centdat

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

TORE ECRET

2

6

8

I0

C

1.2

13

14

1$

17

KROOm: Q.6. 20003

10

20

23

22

Cleasinghouse, and the U.S. governmont Had A grip on What 16

was

doing An this clandessine flela.

Senator Schwelker,

To jour racollection, besides Army

Intelliçonce, wore there any othar fatolligance servicas:

that

were: Involved to any extent With that general pleture?

Well, with the mutation of that, no 1 cocall.

the Navy had some activities: fa. and out of Guantanano, and therel

were gone discussions at vazious tises on how thale pepple

In Guantaname could so nupported, and thn people were going

and out of Guantanamo

Senato, Schwelxer*

Were the Arry oparalions very oxcanav.

compared to youxs?

No. Compared so curax they were infinátess

Senator Schweskes.

And Navy2

davy, as I think eid of chis was leited to

she perinter 211 around Quantanano, nnd: Quantanano.

Senatoz

Schwolker, All right+

Wallach. I just want to aak you i coule of more.

questrous

ps. I vos going to before.

cooline this question is yoiny to your aspertise, and

1E you have any trouble wich definitional terms, let's got

chom ssiaught:

24

capability

Wallock, Did onwava dusel as on entity havo ene

Lo conduct an invastigation to decernine whether di

TOP SECRET

DocId

---

## Page 27

10

1.22

13

14

3.8.

19

20:

8.1

28

33

20:

25

TOP SECRET

not

there had been Cobán Larolvenous On the assassination of

Prealdent Kennody In 99632

1 don't: think those would have boon a real

world capability.

I moon, lf you ce kalking in my torpe ot

conduacing

an invanbigation of this typo in Cuba, which vault

bove bean

professionally sound, that people could have put

confidence

27x

*chink. the antwer to chas te

probably no; s

aviny you in opiaion. that is my opinion.

Me, Wallach. Let's go back to soma, chen 1'u not talkin

about

an Investigacion share you doud

obviously bave cha

preodon la yo up and intcrrior aryone you waated

we are talking.about. througt. clandcout.

an ether words, do conduce this kind of investati

tion; you know,

lany view, yoo would have has to have Fod

¿ penotcasion do one or bore of the Cuban Intelligonce desviri

Tho ponctrution would have had to have: boor in cha 26th of Jul

Movemert; and had enouga

cappode wilh the kop leadereble thi

le could have noved freely in and

cot of a specific gicele

would probably had. to have been

the lavel

od a. Comanolat.

noc huve that sind of casouzco: in danth to pondug:

chas kird of investiouston.

Re: Wallach.

lice thori ever any dinaucosons at that i.

Chut

you tonember berceon jourself, Visagorals, leldex

ia'a

whethed or wot

the

CiA did novo tho capabizi

Le condues suck an inventigations

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

IS RISECRETE

30N* (MAx 202)

2

3

I dont rocall nuch a ataquasion, but Agelax

ths: reason for it was, it vas essentlally folt it that tino, as

namo tracos were dond; the whole mood and the whole atmosphere

was that this was a case that was being Investigated by the

F187e

It was thair Jucisdictional problem.

Me, Wallach, Did the rBI, to your knowledge, have the

capacity to inventigate or do conduct any sort of invostigation

Anal de Cuba?

10

11

22

13

14

Inside Cubs?

No, I don*t think they did.

Wallach: Did soo have direct contact wichi anyono

From

the Bureau on a continuing baste from the fa:?

schhaton..

tot's restructure

tha, whold

What was the liaison relationship batoon anyave, tir

Dacois and Florida?

1.6

There was a direct liaison on a daily workine

basis; le chis was sequired, between iNvAVe and the Miami.

Pheta office,

I thank it was called, us a separuce

110l6

Ar. sohnston.

dizor ly wich your

At what Lovet was chis Liaison conduated,

20

21

22

24

25

No. mis Wos conducted as de leose Snor

levals that I con recall: poriodically she Chiel of she frott

optice and f wenza ment to revior problere: it we bod any

wantsouls probiens, or frankie, Sure to gor Cogether just

ed make

sure that, we did not. have any prbblems

Chure was

TOP SECRET

0o02d

5400

---

## Page 29

5

G

P:

10

13

1 5

10

19

20

221

02

22

24

25

TOP SECRET.

Airect Ilalson on a working level Lebreen tha people la the

Counterintoll toence shop of the station and what i chtak-the

Ducese used to ca. Cha Tanale Oguad, ahich. Wore

former

Buzcau

agents who has bock down in Havanad

who had lost when

Fidol

coro into sewar,

working In Minni. And AN

"halson Was

essontially with peaple who wore vorkkhg

spool fic

chede, there

the nano: traco nechanien bétween burzovo.

and

the lucent would shos sone mosuality 06 interest in a

perticular case.

fox dratance, us an example, the lUccau

might call up and

say, look, what do you: know

about aban

Jase: Gonzaler oE thi

Sucond Front oF ele

ParanoCat

Ho*11 say, okay, vella take

tro question, no'll

a Cindex propora the anavery and damela

mild go doird and

talk to. chon.

so it was close.

30X 22 NOS C1280.

Me. sohnston, Dis you over de the reverse?

Did you sure

ask the Dareas for information?

Tasi

No traced apacitin people with the

Bureau.

Presidont Kennady, dis

you pectonally work wich anybody. from

the Fbi regarding

irescigationt

* don't parall neching on that specie

Ala.

Jotriston. do you know whetted dnyone in inwave met

TOP SECRET

2541

---

## Page 30

162p

110:50513

MART

3,0

13

2 €i

1%

2 B

20

2J

24

TOPISEGIRET

Che TiE

In Xogard to the DOt Investigation In 21oxlas2

My cocollection is that thia nano traco

proceduce. was.working,

whatever they wore working in salationoud

their investlaision, was boing cun through us.

In ocher

words, how

hany traces, who was being croced, * couldate anaver

that-

**, Johaston. Well, name trades are one thing. I guess

I am talking one stop abova that.

Did anyone in JhWAVE co

your knowledgo diacoss with anyone: in for in Morida the

Cin's capability to assias the for davestigation?

I Have Do Way

de

anowering that

I don't

recall

I doo": rac01l

Xind of thing.

You k004,

chis

as you krokey

talking abous 1963. This is 13

raare auo, and i koey telling you, you: know, tve had a busy.

active life.

Sanabor. Sorrelkex.

You are doing so tax very well.

20 dinost

I tocl you are pressing: ne on sonothing Elist

I don't recall each and

*Voty cotiversation, & meat, Fbed a 300 max stoktoa..

Ne, donnason. I agios wich zou og that, but you are

describing hane exacel:

which you de been to recall, bus ti:

Saying

was

there

anything beyond naw traces that you redit

Mas there any asskstance giver beyond nose Kraces?

Senatox Senseuxer, Was Cheze

ong higher

that you can recalle

Level

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

130 pose best 56. Matimaton Ed 1000)

:6

321.

12

13

16

17

19

2.0

20

25

TOP SECRET

the zensos thta dano trace chiba sticks Iri

my mind, trankly, la because of the name traces that wore con

Suchad on Oswald wher we

got the Nice and l docall. the hat

was made

on the fact that. there

was the Alecubaion and debatn

oswald and the one follow, and we ware

tracing d Lok

of nanas at that time, aod in conjunction with

evont, once poople tore dsrasted and dotsinod and thaze was"

SOME COANOE LO

expect. that thore was what i called

jative tolto up, yos know, jou ro got to otart from pome

fact.

What was the fact?

You had

a hate: on address, a

celephone number, that kind oi

tracing was going on.

that.

La what impacts on. nex

Nhat

you know, 13 years later,

serator Echwosker,

Lor wish that the acous

the Dri group, these was

allocation that Oscald, T 9uxe8

pare do it

Le spality

tor

chat

be telec so penocrate

tho grocs himsete ky coming:

when he was in lew Orleans ahil

inciperate de on hie own, such

guess is known,and what

ib in doubt, theis was

an altogation: that whale: to gas tormen

chose that he possibly calked of assadstacing tennedy or tr

pold monoy so assassinate Kernedy:

boss and ot

chas convexsasion serike shy boils or radar:

sion wita cagord to cher

No. Le does e. donator. and 1 chint twa

pro be axplain clue to you ds to woat was the dature de our

the bra, to: oches words, we hail 4

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

107

70

12

26

16

17

10

19

80

22

23

24

25

NONGERNET

zolattonship with the per whove we gave then a monthly

suboidy. In othor wordsx chie would nake thon in our catagary

Ilke independent contractors, In return for this paxticular

mubaldy, choy ware to collect intelligenos for us on the faland

of Cuba where

who sell had people, Thay wore to be a synpot

of

 certals

arount of recistance, thorofoze they had so engage

in certain activicles, pcopaganda, tadio broadcasts, corcarpon-

dence so thair friends and ssesolaceo on the ¿neide to thay

that there was a spark on. the outside, around which people ed

They also vantud zo have a bost to move poople inosac

and out of cuba; and tre noney; the subsidy that we gavo thi

helpod than do 1i se exese things.

And we got an accotalli

tron thon dut we did not control each. and ovory action Hide

thos took, no that it thay chos, you loom not to seport

somethin to us, lo woulon', necessarily know it, and not

every little detail of their organization did so k00w

thay mut somebody it

Seniror schweiker, Nall I con understand brat beckoni,

there wure & lot of groups like thor, bu sucer

I Bus shat pastrouter one wes

• one with whank

wa hud

subsidy rotationsh

Sonator schweikes, Do you: rutall who your control

calationship wis wich that parcicular group? l ascue theo:

was: a Cil control relationship:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 33

мАно з укук

20002 2x %a

420 F00 SUAS SC3

10

1.2

22

14

25

16

17

19

20

21

22

23:

24

25

NONSECREE

Jas, chare was a partloular nan Chae was in

Slakson Wishi

that group, and there were coveral during that verlous

time.

Donator

Schwelkor, Might it: have boes Carlos Artaguier,

ChE name NO

mensioned before?

You mentioned the hand, and to be honess, the

sars doosh*s xing a boll buc is bo aloo known as

Tabby?

Senator Achweiker, Wail, you ve got ne now.

dal]

hn21, every coban has an allas, Ilke, they

him Il: Gordo. Cr

sonething: take thaty

senator Schwalkoz, Wold, It miche bo- He Sits it.

Wall, you night be ablo to answor this.

ne the fellow

Shot was on the ohe boat that raided Havana?

I have.

crouble

matching up some of these names, and frankly,

chae done

docon'e ping a bell, but I night have known him is

It Cordo, and ho was on the boat, and we deale with difterent:

poopie.

Ar. dahnaton; her no show you wave cable bore, datod

doverbon take Which As yous Vopone go this Der master. du

that coole

Dasicalty Lauseaces Chat jou got intormation trod

DRE abous duwalde

in that correcta

103ü

the wording o% chao particulus cabi.

shoke that we did sec fron the one tiles this information

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

24xn 0: 9. 2000x

4t0 Frat Strees.

2

5

6

9

10

1,5

16

27

1:8

19

20

21

22

22

85

TOP SECRET

Me. Johnstone

Hy quention to you tailos pactlas eigniti-

and that do the tact that that cablo saya that Oavold

"allogadly livos in hone of Foreign Minlatez for Evo montha:"

My question 1a that this allogation shas he livad in

che hone of the Soviet foreign minister has nover bear

abstantiated through any other source, and I wonder whether

you have a cocollection ot going back to pre to aco where

they got that information.

No, z conte have

& recollection of going back

on that specifle cable.

Me. Johnston. Do you have any recollontion of bondousete

ever conng back to you ana cayirs that to the acurce or taur

you know, I don't see how you car espect de

renancer that, coally.

You know, In the course of a day.

¿ normal day, I might coad a thousand cabler.

Sanator Schwolker, Well, does the Kaot chat he might

have

Lived in a Sovios foreton minister's hore for two noners

cing a bolly

well, you know, showing me that ouble. !

have to accopt the cablo at laco value.

hat is Wras At 30234

I acknowledge that is what de says.

The cable save we got it

fron cho Dil. I douept to on face value. That incident.

Shei

tocough eininter's robidence, does not. sing a boll wick

Senator dekwolker. so you wculda know ofthand whate at

TOP SECRET

199

---

## Page 35

6

10

12

23

17. 14

26

1 6.

17

18

20

21

22

24

25

No vould have es ge back

to chen and their colterla for carding might not colnalde wich

0478;

In coher words, many of these Cubon groupe vere prond

on Furora, They Mere prone so publicize thingsxthe

WEX&

not true.

The DRE had à record of publicitiag, embroidente

elaborating on thlogs, and therafore we treated a lot fk Choix

macorial wich caution..

sandsor Schwalker, Right.

go ahead,. Paul:

Me, Wallach: Conerally, now, and I'm not unking for

specill: conversations. at all. & think de is entiraly true,

3% a saveat chroughout thie entire thing, we are talking

about 13 pears oçc, millions of matters age. aub yener 11y 06

you rocuts whocher os not the fBar

the pooped you dente with

Kad any goneral knowledge of the CAle capability inside

Coba to ges information?

Well, 1 thank

it would be fair to say that

the rne know tne kinds of oporations shes va vere tunning.

I think they

could have drawi coxbuty conclusions. about,

yOu

know, what ous capabality adult have been.

That dar

pus this in: pecspactive." In talking acout the pecoke ki

Miani. Occastoodly when I would con to Washington for

confocanees, I would nece somebody. Line Povich, We hoppeno i

to be, 200 knoxy Arionas, and & would talk to him and say

tod are you doinu; how are things going; What kind of activit.

TOP SECRET

120490

---

## Page 36

TO RESEARAN

are you Envolved La?

Papich probably have a teol for the acope of our acttyle

but whother ho wouid have an apreciation os tho kinds ot

pocifle counces, " doubt it,

ks. Wallach, In othar worda, you would doubt whother or

not anyone In the bireat: would have known whothes or not you

had an extrenezy high lovel bource in axetrols encourage.

I I doubt that thay would know that.

Mr. Walach, Ne ans tina, do you cocols after the escosce:

nation. anyone from the pureau, oven Exon tro

08flc

or from. headquarters, Chrough Vaplel, Chrough your headatartes

ochitectlag: you to dotochine whother or not you had

che

to conduck Lavestigations on Cuba?

I No, I don't recall

that

Do you want me - can du go get

the record for s

mind boy

terator

Schweiker.

(Discussion off the recora.)

Mix Razzoch, Lotts go back on the tacoco.

Were

you lenown so the 70z under your coal name os

under

an alias?

$ 10 Fal Wreat, IF Warkington O.€. 20003

6

20

14

16

16

19

20

22

2 3

th unt inder try

chout whether doe nane is golds:

soon ty in tne tai zocort, i shink thay always would, in k

they say, you knaw.

sourod or confidential informant: or k

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

2.

10

4 2

13

24

16

27

18

19

20

24

24

25

NIN

Doc

whatover to was ontled, and Chas sa the way they weste choic

Me. Hazzach. Las me ask you this

I contine this was

e subject matsor that was covared in Jour previoue

casttmoniy

I Scan

1: oè velovance, and I vould like to ask you here, vero

you aware on lovenber 22nd, 1903, that the GlA hes at sono potb

in tine pelor

he that date Iraelt engagod in actonped to arsake

nate

or used othors in accompsa: to assasainabe Fidel Castro?

No,

# sland the basis anavor to that quested

1s ha, bus 11 yos looked at my previous castimony, i bravioli

said that in the case of Chas

Cuban sonandunte over the yeari;

I Los acgatrod some krosodge sl

cive

What

no extoçou bag

he was being run by

INS:

col leagues

in Wastingcon, but that cas

was not knows: to me

al eareint

apsassinaciox Operation.

sche: vords; at one point in sine

I know that Des Air:gersid

was gone to hoot this feltor*

I Know at ohe point in tine

chers ras. going to be a nocting: an Spaln: 1-knes at one pou

so cime that so sore puccare

cachiod la se buphors Chis.gor..G

follow, l never kuck hechor woe caches vora

rocordzed,

chanes make Enac, But

I have also previously koskithod that on nona bi tho

assiuktaos thas were boing engaged in.Uy Me. Nocvor, that *

wass not koowledgaoble on, you know, the thrust of those

activitien

se wallachi Did your oun sourcas in the Ceban cototy:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

в так в.

NW

2

4

12

13

24

16

18

20

21

2,22

TORI SEGRET

tell you chat

Coa, chat no cala the undervoria, che Martar

WAS

:ongading in actanper to ascasataate Fidel Cascroz

J * don't rochil any such teporta, buk ilva

oxalataad this, and las me go agato on thia, that assassinati!

the word "assassination* was part of tha ambiance of that.

tine. In othoc words; ovury Cabon that you talkod to, nopery

coutd ba Involved in Cuban operations without having tad

sone sort ol a discussios at some time vich sono Cuban: Mho

ania, gée, we oughs to knock this guy oft, er Ild sboos him in

I hiad the chanca, de the way

arcate & revolution

1a: 20

shoot Sidal and Rouly and

chen go down through: the whott

proposition do che

fact

Chat

Monetney world talk about

assassinacion duse waan Y

oxainary at the circ

crysing thac was really pot or cu

Ic was

part of the calmate.

were protossional covolucionaztos

in sono casod, nen whe bo.

bren

1n

the 2040: 01.

July

and lotte and code la and

becono extleri

and had beep

axiles tho or three

cinos *

Revolution and assasination was y way pi lito for chen.

Me. Wallach, Did von favo thy donst fx youe mind shis

Castro Was avere in dovener 1063 chat the Cla war Budport??

2. Mallach.

supercing rivolutionaria

Ha estetia

diseco new thot the Unatell

States was n

touch wich groupe line the pre, that ecopto

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

2

€

20

11

7.20

13

10

17:

16

20

22

20

TOP SECRET

Lovaadãe Tous osndoon toms out vas A& D0273003347 04709 0208

sume of

chem

Ne. Wallach. droups that were trying to overthrow

Castro.

I pus be bad to axsume that if they were comy

La, they wore sotting up queriita foxcos in places tike

oriente frovince, and vinds del Rio, that yos, they vero going

no work to overthrow him, and he had to know that.

Me. Hallach, hore you aware of any other country that

che Uniced Statos Governont was at that timo ascenpring to

¿verthrow: the govinmont di, and i can got your anover pet

the record

did positive.

I hull, wait a sinate, Would you roguedde

cha c2

In not sure & follow that

MICEWIAE

one+

nation, said

Mr. Wallach.

Ved

and back to no wich the vord assass:

the arbince of the tines, that

was part

that might have bcor discuusee

ali one cine or another: My

balade, as a layona, has been i don't sos that nuch of 7

debtsnocion bessoon sending

sonicone in who to going to try ha

onent a covolution. thu resual of whach would procabus bu

she doach de Casudo de coposed to sarding concore in to i

dos's wans to get tado chtse bar t chink thos nay hove beet

sonching that you were Crucity Cax

In are ever are you tore at any eches country tri:

che bis or thai the was directing attenpts to overthcos kn

TOP SECRET

40450

---

## Page 40

mana Glide peri

No rubiqunt, SE. Warden, 00. 2on69

3

20

18

1. 3

15

10

16

20

22

22

23

24

ATOR SECRET

gorarnment 012

No. pEs the top of ny head, ho, bus i

do want to come basi to your point. i do think thore la a

Alffozenco in the Latin American revolucionary sense of piostit

a Covoltelod against sonobody

as opposed. so plotting a

spoultic ascascization operation againae a particuloi individia

You know; maybe wo: have an honess difference of opinion. on that

point, but ny you dillons

4000 YOUE) -

20x- Wallack, Nil right, let me cortinue on.

Vou aldo montroned bafore shat

some de the people, the

people that for fole were kakang sonoral policy, voke detna,

Boboy ronnady, an one point ld kansdale.

Nee Hallach+

bid the Cubans Know thard bid the Cubais

KloN

that

Lobby Kernedy was Involvedl

I don't know that they ware dt thas posit in

came; but sleazy

at later points od tina: whoa. tho Brigade: 2508

corones: yos; Croy Know that: Bobby Kennod, was in the Cuban

policy altairo.

Landers sE

he bergade laxe Accline, Outta.

the San woon brochers dod others were

brought to hastington

for Lunches, danners wies, t goons du

chao cine it wos this

Astorady Venoial, becaué shore wore vocioua.

Phasos in thic

thanga

103 г

ahoy krow he was Auvolvad in Curas altalra:

Are you tamliat wich do article that ai

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

П...

400 mughione, a E Washingon De 2000*

NN

2

9

20

I 5:

27

33

19

30

23

24

25

ti i chink sé

was the Soptonbes 7Ch Ladue of tho Now orteans

cinox-Dicayune, smong: other nowsponese, which roflected an

Incervier. Castro had with Daniel Harker of tho Ar, vithin chichi

ho s4id in nubatance that u.S.

loadore woulé ba fa danger fe

thex

concinune

in thais

acconpes. I Whihk he aned the word

Meliminate"

Mes, I'm Caniller with tho gonoril melcle,

105,

bas 1 can't 10ll you vich corcaloty thas i was avare ot

thai piciole de che cina chat le appearea. 2o othos vordo,

you rà noking bboue 1964, did gou ang it appeacee?

Ar. Wallach. Septenbos I, 1963.

I cannot sreax that i kriew abort

dc. in 1965.

I vinco indo: chat thes acciale hos boon zoterzed va a nimbor i

P.ür83:9:4

Xx .

Johnsconi

Natie uest

scate for the cecucd that 1

dis not bring the wAyS

cable on

I but WAVe: did pass to hoven

gist ot

chas

4a ik appeared la Miand

anticlos, passod. cine

intorratton to boadqvarcers olther. pa

bine

¿304 or Lich o. Joverbor bocouse che Fl: was Inquizing

about. exile

grouas: claining thai Castro had Errescenoê Kanuer

angway, 20 0h26

ac toass wave nad knevdodge rigas afcar chi

azi degne mo reason I quality my caspita.

that mar lane boen a coulo that would have boer boleaser Ly

sove monast of m state le didate nacossarity follow thai a

TOP SECRET

6435H

---

## Page 42

19

2.2

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

25

ТОР ВЕСТИТ

WW23

WAVE cable, that l peraonally celonand St.

¿ conte happe

to recal 16, bot: " on famillar with the accicle and the thrusti

o4 It:

xx Wallach, I coalizo apain you may not have been

with at at that tine, Dy

evar: before the assassination, but

what in and fin now asking

spoolsacally for whas Facts, bus

you have concified previously

cbab

=I don't want do paraphies

your toscinony, it spooks for itself - that you had ho season

to. believe that the Cubans Were involved in the assassination

President Kennedy,

Woo; of tho tine that the inoidene accurrd.

abd whoa davel a was apprehended, ¿ had no ceason to believe

that the Cubuns Woro: Invoived:

wallach

Taking the othes side of the coth, hit.

evidoned was there in yout mind

that. they were not involvout

Neil, bocause we

Aidn"t have any eviduase

that they were

do Germane

Nex Wallach.

010 gos conduct ony amvoscigation at ali +

there was any luvolvement?

¿ don'e have ang chartor for that inary

wicils wace arcostes

Tie 7D1 ana the suchor ties in that

particular,

in ballet, were purowing tho case. & had no

charted to pursue thats

Mr Walkeeli

Did are over usk has Holm whether or peri

you could conduce such. an

investigation, ot dis he ever for?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

TOP SECRET.

R

5

13.

12

2:3

Red 1a

26

minnies. O 0-20003

I77

18

13

2D-

22

25

you that you could of could not?

No: I ansvered that, that 1 done recall

such conversation whete Hains told me I could on coutd

I mean, this was not a subjao: that vas: baine discossed.

I think the frame of refozence as the time was choe this

was not a Sociads ctional

case for the CIA to purove.

Ne. Mallach.

Xew taan, the Presidont of the Unised Scutes

is murdered; and it in not within the Seriadiction of the cra

to determino lf a Foresgn country le anvolved»

Not if the investigation is xun by the

EuI and a person is apurelionded, and ane is going to aroune

that he de going

to be intercoyaced, unvestigative loads ace

going to Do dotained Coon 4t. and

¿ porticator agency Has 10t

the action responsiblasty: Under those ofrconstances, my

perception of the vardous rules is thas Cl portorns a eupoce

sunccion.

In ocher worde, de you are asked for d hane

Grace:

c crades on kalophono punbexo, physical descriptiona.

you know, liconhe platen, hacoves he moy bo, you deapone.

Me, Nastochi. Who gave you thasd Lostructions that.

C EA

was only goins to have a seaport Anothon?

That is ng perception.

mio told you that?

Nobody bag to coll yoo chat, touire an

incall cyonce hoar brind. You or datored to chink for ouc

cas cone to logions conclusions:

TOP SECRET

NAS

Doct4/6242544

---

## Page 44

с бар соки) від кі

now 6 0kv%

010 Foxt Stret, S.E

Nitr

2

8

9

10

13

14

25

17

18

29

20

23

24

TOP SECRET

ME. Wallach, Did somebody tell yousthat the

nex had

primaty Juriadiction?

No, but the ral has primary furisalotion..

this la something ve are taughe in our training coursen, fo

che

United

States, You know,

foe cases in the United Statos:

For

inatance, ny explahatton of this : I gave you an explenacidn

of the countexintolligence oise in the States where we found

a Cuban agent in the United Scatos,and the Jaciudiction of the

reverted to the 23i,

Sonator Schvetker. Do. You want to make a comment

here,

Foympur?

Me, Boltex Ite like to go off the record.

Senakor Solvalker, X11 cigitc

(piscussion off the record.)

Senator Schustker. Lat's go beck on the record.

Mx. Kaylach

* rave one p two noxe questions on this:

Senator Schweiker: 111 Fight*

Mr. Wallach. Did at any time during the existanca of li

oncon comdasion, do you recull i and in not asking for i

ayoc lie event, but do you recall havine auy type of indired.

rolationshiy with that Counsoloh, in assence, tesnonding to

requents that were nade of the Agoncy and they

asking you fix

veneras intornation?

Hould you dive rie the dates of

three

Kazzori

Commisston?

TOP SECRET

9455

---

## Page 45

Kes those 30r 344-000

2

9

10

13

1.2

13

16

1.7

10

19

20

21

22

23

TOM SECRET

Mr:

WaLlach.

M&; Wallachs

Decopbes 40l63 *

Deconber Le 163 to when?

Soptember of *es.

chat

He. Wallach.

Do you have aby reacoa today to balieve

chero

was curan Involvemene in she assassination of

Trasidorit Kennedy?

a have:

no hayd lotorrasion on that.

Ma: Ballach*

Do spa. hove. any hearsay indoination?

I Mean, hearsay information, what

conctliotos heassay?:

Céto) wrose an deciole in the Mockingeon

Post You Know

suggestiny

cher chece

is bone mi do that.

hockey evidence?

I nean, 1 don't happen to borrove has

we, Wallach. * an asking you it you have

any belief as

expert?

As an expert i only deal in facts, to outer

words not mi what's consides hard insolligence, I don't have

any hazd intelligenco.

schrisson, Othus tood the Col, ala vou have i Afarzor

with oller Investigative agenetes?:

108*

2. 030.

Nic: Johnston:

Did you have an Investigative cobatton.

rhe 06. Custons: Poportmone, speculically a Customs

agone who was. on: detail to Can?

relocionship with a Cuatoia

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

TO A SECRET

3

:4

17

minivie Meavi

13

14

15

16

17

40694

agent by the nano ot

WRO

detatiad on an arrangenent between CIA which was in being when

I came to: the station.

Mão prirasy Conculon: nas to be

orationed in Koy Weat, Florida, la gopoxally covered the area

from Key Wool to elther Moroshon or 1e could have been in

other: Mozathon or 21 Marade, and his takks wore, one, to

find Cubans who wero: coming Into: the Unicod Scates in anall

boats, and to ensure that he cook a quick look at them to

see it any one of then could bo turned around

so: ba used s

intelligence sourees.

Il chey couldnte bo und as intelligenci

sources. He skimid off the

perishable Infoznation that too

rcally cotlicel, and chen put it into our apolot

flaggod the krowteágenble peonio tos turthor exploitatton r

un: when the wont to the opa tood briefing contex. le also

picked up oquipmans, that

do docurents

Exon cheat people.

weagsos, Clothing, 3o thut we coula use authentic cloching as

equip our own teams*

Nex Johnston,

Did be also star la contact wich cortai

Cubon ex12002

20

21

22

84

25

in aid star in contact vich cuban emile

groupe because it was part of ails Jol to know when they wer

goni ouc so tuas wo didn'e hove tiese uncoordinaced probis

to other wards, at one point we injed to.

stop them. As ofey

hns to knew woo was in the

aros maning: & training camp ot

sonathiny like that, so chas our operations soutd not be

TOP SECRET

UMYSS3L0

Dact

34/03

---

## Page 47

«а. фоку Курана.

3

7

9

20

12

12

33

14

16

17

18

20

22

23

24

TOP SECRET

Pora CArna doza

comeronised by conag into, « camp exe to thera cope custod

Cubans vere already workino:

Mxr. Johnaton:

and ald ho w lot mo back up, Firet, have

you

participater

in the Agency's response to the Commitreats:

written inquiry about khta?

called no and said

Volt; to this extont, somebody in the Agency

the Committoo had a roquest in for come:

data: on i Custons pilloer.

Nobody could renomber has name

happened to renenbes his nanc, I sald

was thu

guy's natio. I don*t remember how to spell it. Phoneticaliz

I think It 1o as followa, and try to find a flle on it. And

do to that extent, Yes. I am awaze that chere was

sone sort di

¿ response being propared, I did not see the responde. 1.

don't Know whac 1E 0075:

Do you know whethet he was askod either ba

you or by anybody In VAVe to contacc Cuban exiles

after tha

assassinacion to and khat knowledge: they aight have?

Well, let no try to clarity that. i vas

nothis contace

paint. In other words, & was

a manoger.ot

Jarge doeraelon:

Ne. Johneton,: I underatand insti

to did anybody under

yous control contact hini?

Ito point of contaot was in Key West.

34117

he would either cone to lllank. or nost with one of

poopie; and once evers three months of someching like that 1

TOP SECRET

405

---

## Page 48

PAND & PAVI

NWRI

OF SECRET

4:

- 6i

10

would

have a meeting with kits to sevtow brod econda, elther

in Key West or An Miami. & nevor taked hija with

Chad:

t3oe of

thing. I don't recall anybody else in the: station

Banking han

ro conduct an Invandigation of cuban groupe rolativa to the

Presidonate assnesination, Due as ve vore puttine togethes

noçd cables - you shovad me an cramplo

onio

conceivible that he is the

Kind of person that we would have

tolked to: co: find ous what was going on in the Cuban cormunity

at that time.

Ne, Johnston. Do you know whecher he did in faot contact

Cuban Oxiles about it? Do you have any knowledge of his contas

Cuban extres?

12

13

14

15

16

18

I donte have any Sirothand knowlodge,

Nr. Johnston, Do you have any Knowledge whatsoeveez

I would have to say firsthand,

I don*t

recall any information of any

subordinate of nine seporting

T.!:

my that ho had done that.

Me: Johnston:. You chess fiod daxilor chas you met wich

Max Pirogerald at sone pointy and that he told you at chat

tire that; bo tado: concast personally vich a Cuban agent, orde

AALASH?

20

21

22

24

25

J I think my testimony was sumething alony cu

Line,

toot I had a conversation wich fitzyorald, that ho wi

going

he ricet a cabal source.

My recollection mos chas cha

name may lavo cone ap, that he was askine m apinion and a4u..

TOP SECRET

D601d: S2425455

---

## Page 49

TOP SECRET

1

2

3

8

3.0

21

2.2

as to

whether Chlo would be a useful thing to do.

And as I

have

testifiod bafore, my recollection la i told Him I thought

I would find this corvornation interenting, but i aidnte think

1r wos worth his dotra baouze lo: had too high a profila, ind

1s would not he a g00d thing so do fcon the point of vim or

attribution in celacionship to

a clandestine agent:

Me. Johnaton,

And Let n0o

go through whnt you have Jus

cold me.

Elrst of all, was this agent, when be used the tzue:

namer

WaS

1e the agent whose cryptonym Is ALASA?

10Sx

Subaoquently & have concladed that eliai

1.4

1,6

16

17

410 FiNG Singet 1.X

Mania: 16. 1000K

19

30

21

22

23

24

25

as wno t0 1a

ur. dohnston, Dad ho call you or indicate that a mooria;

backoon. hir and ANtAGll was proposed?

Well, he was constadring & meeting With

AMASH, with this parbiculas person.

Me. donnaton. Do you have à recollection as to what

sireiraro your discuosion wich Me. Miragecald was?

No; I don't:

Knowlog: that Me. Miracorald net with

Me. sohnston.

ALAsH on october 29tn, 1962, does that cotcost your cocott:

as to wethor the converontion took place earlier in 19637

i am sones, a cane nakson that cown far.

yOu:

sohns con.

But you advised ajairas the heating.

TOP SECRET

DadTd 32423455

---

## Page 50

6

8

10

: 12

18

16

27.

10

20

25

TON SECRETE

R5gia tx

Johnstons

Lau ware kroulospeable, I take fer of the

Agoncyly dosting wich AMansa from. timo co tine, as part ot

tes.. I montioned to you cariles that ve hid

par in caches vich vre: achoduled te he totelerod lo ancasu

er hia paopla, so yoa, I trow that va voro providing zupport t

an agons in Cubd, bus thac was not tousual bocaose ke were:

pasting lo a largo nunber os cachod for a side varles 0?

poople who wece boing con due of washington, over and pil of

Jotason. And yo0, may Navo cossatied abous this ortou

but was it cormon do duop caches di rifles or telescopis siglil

fot

agencs?

I Wolla not nacerearily have. known what Wha

in ench sache:

trell, vas It comon to dras, lo your kaouie

drop siflos wich toledoople riches?

] Moli, I think the shiog that would bo ur

coinen would bu telescopie sighta

Many: of our cached ware

wespons cachos. A Jarye bule O% ha cochos vere vitlos of bid

kanu

anothes, we pue in che rab. the Belgiar FAls we

put io Melai la pus ii carbonar, ve pus la Spatugtiolds, a

pas Lo Chonpsor kubnachine Sons.

"I chink

¿ cache list and 1 say a tolescope on it natched

Wi tili i

TOP SECRET

21204

---

## Page 51

TOPIYEGRES

springtleld *03 rifle, that arobably Mould have atruck no as

boing

unuoual, but i cla hot ded the Inventortes of all the

Mc, Johiston. Hould you conmonly de routinoly sue cables:

tho proctor, espectosty on the Mussy opcration?

From the Dicorter

No klion*

Mr. Johnston.

TO JAwAVE.

My recolluction uh, other than specifie

roquests

to

pus. in cschies,

chas

there wants soy doble trattir

bocwcer Washington and.

OMWAVID

on that parsicular operation.

anarchiny Chrough 7 a010s

10x4

Johhshod.

Jan: Commuteso door nok have copies of tia

F1e:0s

ANCAN Phat

Agency*

Des me.

so you ne

BING St

1=a0

 foct that

there

WAS

a: cable

sti

early bacember

2363

Exon bre Daredcox

Monde. Alzecsing, using the spypt

AM1GGll. one Orrecting

dachs be cupultad Milni Anotedino

that,

¿hamizing ewo

piRon with corescopie

sights

10004 2010

*:

5

7

9.

28

14

16

17

1a

414:

20

In oakos worde, tha: would have booh d lairly standsti

Logisties

Wind of thing to got a cache and it would have dous

an on my briefing chace for che nonth, the quotasion, i curbo!

at days

before tho operation was lavichol, I would Hava pid

a brieflag wich all Of Cho paramit saty and norttine dilicora

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

3

B

and que covert, attit and other apeciallava:

to dock at the ov

and make a deciaton. as so whether:

the oporation

should: go 0x

not ge. At that point i probably would have known that it was

* cacho, shut It concaines weapons, chas il ias

an S92PO2e 01

a hoalgaarters zur oparazlor.

Me, Johnston, Do you recall of or about 7

or 8 Deconbok

1963 & stop being put on opetations;

cortain operations that

went

1ncộ 04b47

WARD A MANA

14

1, 5:

17

18

19

20

21

22:

23

22%

25

I donte cocal that spocific sinairamo, bur

there were pectodie ups and:

the numbas

operaciona

Chat coutd be tun.

No. wouid

policy

guidance

down for a period of

Line:

once one of

titone

chings exac

ohe " think thoe. we had

sorios De dascussloas,

Nashingcary and duboad.

that.

mheto was

SLandidown, and

we had to say sonothing.

dependents

In: Goba

for todd and a continuing

fLow:

weapons,

Mas we

coul ax*6

have thom propazing thebe

caches and risking

theld hives

come to the cacopcior points.

and not le

able

wehedules.

#. Johoston: 0o you Locals; though,

1.10;

the period 6y

and i Degenbec, headquercore

02xE012

operations and then padding

the oporations, zod

apecifica

vulas which nasdi and i quote - pardon des 1 doure quote.

the operacions being called ore,

"panting major cop lovel

Chan-saribbean polley revier dcbeduled carly next week wish

TOP SECRET

NA H

DOc10V52425456

---

## Page 53

400 Mist Streak 5 CoW/e

winston, tuf poppy

NIN

3

4

6

8

9

10

22

22

13

16

16

10

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOL SECRET

should provide. basia/sos cucsoson:

I don't rocall you apoclelo dates or your

tinatrana, but the point I would ilke to leave with you is that

thors were

soveral pariode like that there we had ipesand downs.

and yes, y do recal Acanddowns on opecations,

Nt: Johnston*

3his donte socall a stanadoun Luchtn sio

waeks

of the assassination of President. Kennedy.

I an sorty, I don*t: You khov, it accept that

it bocurrody but you know, there were so many of those during

the three and a half year period of time that i donte recall

that spocitle one.

Ic volination.

What doos the phence "highas authority"

generally mean in Agericy cables?

hell, as chet particular point in fine, I

chink highes authoxity was d euphonism for the President and

cop levol poltos Assisionmakers at the NSC: 10 Conmichoe Level,

Mex Cohnston:

and again, you don't recall frowing in

che

sane Eins period, Decembor 1903, that you waze coblod that

tho headquaxtors: procedure was to prosent the Infiltrasion

mnoceduresico hiyher

authority

Vail, i have forgothon che date when this

transition took place. Aa ofia fixod date, in the course

of this operation, we had to supply all of our infileration.

oparations & bonch in advance.

1m sorky, & Just don't

rocall when that went into effect. Prior to that time we were

TOP SECRET

242

---

## Page 54

Anona KAria Mih

$

12

16

2 6

18

19

20

21

28

24

TOE SECRET

Pratty vell, schedalang theed, ourselven, but that remisce

come la that ve pit these do a manch to advance.

IDo as I

Cold you before, de - wanted to Run a achedule for October, 1

had

no have it in in Hoshington wich oll of the des plane

Dy i think the 15ch of Septenzer.

Senator Schwelkoe... Did a formor anbassador i413Lam

Paules, a man called klittan Pauler.

who. as ond timo owned

proportios in lavana and now It/ing

in Miami, ale he evor

¿inance sone of the oporations that you aro avare of out of

Mama; Wilitan Valent

Yen, I know D2id Paulay.

He who involved

In ay tine, ln one spocitio operasional accivity. i don't

Chink do vovid bo propor co bay chat be financed la. howover:

Senator Schwalkok.

This: is che pre muore people were

killod in e boas estar

Roll, we. donfe kook what happened to then.

My recollection of the abecution le chat Bill Pacles WAS

Appesachod by Lite Magazine, and this was Imoivod with an

individeal by Che Hors 1 John Martino, Degause this has come

the Commiscoa has osked me about chis before 1

Lolà than ar

irat I coulude retenbor the nano, and 7-7a0

to go back and condues a

file peacch, and 1 come up with

in Cuba.

Martino was in touch

With a

number of cusons whe

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

TOREREE

ALA!

so cine they had accons to suo Soro intense cecaneglame

Paular brought Ella oraructon to the Agency and the Agency

agreed that we would cooperate with then in pornule of erla

operation.

Sanator Schvolker, And Time-LAls did sore funding for

t00?

3. 2

17

18

21

24

Roll, chey were Involved, but they did not

My recollection: 1a Paules made

the boat avsitabler

the Flyine rigan, which vas his yacht, we pado for the yas and

ost fox that particida: boat, and so provided alt of the other

equipmont that went

into the operatton.

Pauley wone on thae

vessel down so the Lainch point. The min were Launchce in *

swall EnEstbration boat,

It bock: off, wons olf toward the

Cuban: mainzand, and varo nover soon or heard from Since then.

Te hover had any reporciny on ther

Senator Schwesker:

Hos Paoley involved

with other

aporations with yos folks, or is thas the only one?

that: to the only operation Chas he was

tavolves wish the Ageneyx

very

toris of providing aurice on verious people

that he hao known:

trialk his

Jong Involvenent in due;

was

useful in providit

intacuactions to vartous people that we vatted

7ec01

ohe oscariod he lutxoducad me to a pronincat Calia.

chat

I walked ta ross, no brokered that.

pauley, on his own, gavo money to various. Cuban urdul»

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

TOMSECRET

2

3

6

10

10

13

15

27

10

29

20

21

22

25

unrelated co sial vouce doling

He was Also a pastraspont

in cho raising of the loltial carson for the cemboraloe

Drigade 2506,

Schotor Schwalker, Jens is as acticle , cather than me raad

1e 721 give you a

Chance to zead At. 76 la Cladeo Boothi

Lice, As you know;

she is de

thie

Poraton Intelligonce Advisory

board, and has booh: for soro tina, and blal. Colby uas Nox:

chibt at scatlon when she was

arbassador to loaly. This

atra come to me not throughi the papoo, tzonkay. but fion

Mica

Lice porsonsily, excrossing hos

concorn. "2e. sibsegdontly

die appear an a poper and

not release it.

Nes. buce

apoolfically peteabed it

no batty

Boxle, and the roason it is

relevans here: is chae frow what 2. zaad here, Che groug she

¿e retorting co is probably the

proud of

gone part de

the Die ocoup in Now Orloans:

whita

is

not tog

she did nasoclake Me. William Paulay

But Chac

i Se

sonavhas confused, baccase you said:

he wasn"; involved in an

acho: operation othes chan the

on*:

jou nentioned.

1611, 1m

" know Fix Faule,

and Mrs, tuad are friends. Whoy we cach other, on chor ased

a haven*e seen thom: in a

mumbai of dears. bus chay asod to

be in bed said

sociol ofcouie,

in an buce chat We: 90015r

becounted a war acory th his concucts, so sho is probaliza

aware of the generas operacion to dos the two Sovlats que 44.

Cubia, That la the oniy operation chat he raa with us ducin

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

HOE SECRET

B

10

99 A20dk a

Nio Fast Streeti Sill Mat

Noster, a canoes

3. 4

1.5

16

17

18

19

20

21.

28

23

24

25

xy stevazdeh to as che station.

Sanator Schvelker-othere La a vast dasteranco of zacolico

tion botwion the tha on what bappened. Sha very strongly

_collecta

that in addition to the thing that you described.

which is a natter of rocord, by the day, with the Senato

committes, Le la & matter of Connuttes cacord, In addition: to

that, that this is in if siao.

Rather chan read the whole thing, you misht read tha

paragrapha 1 have outlined.

she Conta vory strongly ibout ter

She: has called me several times abous

3 ta

she ls absolutely

cantain of hor infotnatton, And hor

cuban source decon't wait

to talk for fear of his lite,

Whe Witness

reado: the docunents)

No, that doesn't cing any bolis. I cannot

put that i0 any context,

Let me go back to this Pauley busineso. S think at one

time, one other thing that padley did for us; i think he

provided an opportunity for us to plok up some cargo da tho

Dominican Republle to provide coves for one of our vessels that

we bore unidg ab that tine foe indiltration operationd in Eno

aied

but those are the onty chings that f om remenber oft w

top of my head.

Senacor Schwolker. Xou see, Whore he gaya here: that in

contact with a group, the story goes on ta say that this

grcup

applind a tape and pictures of that contact, and khi:

TOP SECRET

DoCIdAS24/26455

---

## Page 58

DAI

2

3

6

9

110

13

14

15

36

4n0 Rest Curtet S.E9

Đp/ 0 C 26003

29

20

21

22

23

1214

23

NWt095

2at did not follow then up which dars esther serlous charge

I coalf, and that fa why I wonderl? there to sone DRE relation

ahip here with Bringules.

Maybe you dan give us that case officeata name

Me. Bolter Which one?

Seynour:

Senator Schmolker.: The Cose officer for the DRa group.

It would have to be the one ac the tine when Davala Wis

is New Orleans, Which 1s - when was thatz

Ma. Johnston. The Loll of *63.

(Diocuscion che the record.)

Senator Schwetkcr: Going on, I didn'* folion Eha Final

quostion. on Debatado, your Cocall man to Customs.

Were you avace that he was doing sone invostigauing

after the Kennody ascassination?

No, I don*t have any firsthand recollection:

Chest.

Senator. Somecker:

And the way you were structored, woul

he be the logical person to, 1f somobody askod, for alther a

name check or some-loitow up i

do would have been the logical person xo

had sonathing spociésc to pursue or ho kould have bear the

Logical person to put a question to 16 we were looking fox:

asnaphorld, you know, what the Cuban community was thinking

Senatos Schweikari. How about duilo Lobo?

He's the sugar king*

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

TOP SECRET

5 6

2

S:

6

7

9

1)

12

12

'15

15

1.27

12:

Senator Schweiker. No'e che

dugar king thato:

Did he ansiot wich any de your opocations, aither finan

cially or in berns of has popte of in torra of his organ 7t

Ing pecotioction of that, there was no direct

contact between ds and Juild tobo, we did have various

Caban

Investigative and cosonrch stocos that we were working

with, My belict is that one of these groups must hove been

Lapping tobo for bis knouledgo of the sugar macket, bocause

we were constoneld mising projections of there the

sugar crai

Wax 00124 in Cube, pocauce that impaoted

un the stability oh 4e

Cohan acouony. ta other cords, won le was i good acop, you

corde figure that Costra'* Joing

ts have x mintons of dollan

When he didn't have sood cook that was going to

impact Chir

Where ho wanted to ge with buildim the revoteeion.

senator achreiker,

thore te another naire bat i believ

had son colaconship wish him. nayhe musinesswise, sahes

Boyswell:

colavolt. I shirt: chat woe the fellow Chri

0n, L. Xi 20001

222.

1222

sha was

sewolkoc. Wars 35s Tas proldet de that potted

24

25

tie was

xith economie decivilios and

hos prosence coris be pus. on t.

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510

DOCId: 32425435

---

## Page 60

TATOP SECRET

Cuban

econony

Senator Schweikes

And hov:

about an Antonio Veciana,

Cuban

same ?

patr

5

7.

Yeah, I think bets the onor one of the

owners is the restaurant in Mian called Las Violinas

Schator Schwelker: At ohe point he worked for

Coold you spolt the nave?

Sonator Schwalker.

Maybe I'a not pronouncing

i tight

20

21

12

10

18:

i think that's the fellow who used to

yun the roosaurant called beg Volinas, dnd he waa

Evolved

Cabon: exile groups " think he was connecte

with

* he second

fronk of the Dacobrad, bus that is off tie

coy of n9 hord.

Natil brave in do a

PEACE.

Sonacor schreicer. Did David Philips, daring yout

Cenare there*

have any nasignment in Cuba?

knat

was his telationi, at the tino of this porious

Davad tb.izdpe7

Tharts head. of the Rot tred

yes, as chor moone in tine he was etation i

20:

221

23

24

I Kude We has none cravalete poing don to benito Citi

TOP SECRET

NW::55510

DocId: 32425455

---

## Page 61

TOR SECRET

6

20

3 2

13

and their point of contact requently was Devo Phillips, but.

mast of those fellows wore dealing with propaganda distesbution

But he could well also have worked againat the installation.

At that time he was not the station chief, Me. was:&

secondary figures I goean, at the atation.

Senator Schwalker.

did toward lughes or his orgarization

or Incortoly assiat: you in any operations, and I an going

oxclude fox the monant. Mr. lakeu, who we know had a vory

specific role, excluding the Mahou situation wich diancana

I think you are Familiar wity

Yest

Sonalor Sohwelker. Lo your knoxledge, did Howard lughou,

Incaztel or any of his abor groups or assoctations asstat

ox wock with you in ate Cuban opéxation?

Nos with the diant starion that 7 au antar

.: 6

ot.

22

23

Sonacor Sovatker, Weit, In not talling aboud --

Waal, back here in bashingcon that could be

214 # Rave no kuweye st see din only tomer to out se

the Mank context

Senator Schwolhor: At one oint In tino, probably wide

nos siest ome abondo, there sad to. Colonod Sanuel. Rall.

two millenny picache to the davan abbassy.

coco Chal die cine 3 w0111

Tas, 44:4004,

TOP SECRET

NWIA GOSLO

DoC1d:32423435

---

## Page 62

Soone (Area. 2001

matom, DAy 20001

NW

00510

TOP SECRET

59

1

Schator Schwelker+

that role was be playins when you came

aboard?

6

1.2

24

1$

15

17

ue elther came about the same time that

did or shortly after i arrived in

Mand, and he was in fact:

the anibor two follow at the opa lode debcioling conter.

inter-agency debrietng

contes no: up at Opa Locka

The head

of the contos was « CIA officer, lid prinolpa, deputy was

Kale, He was the genera: administrator of the progian and hi

supervises the pilitary personnot whe vero on desail ta the

conter, and there wore debriefing people there. tor positive

¿sulligence, and wes 100%

Line soldone who was particuer.

Knoxiod cabin de lad some apesational exploitation, shay

61w0 Chor 10.46x

Senator SchmuikOre

Had no ever dotailod su diA or yoy

ho stalctly hamy

insclligence?

No, ai chat tine he was an army Detloor

wocking on a joint project that winter dotest assignmene:

mas dust sostned to sps nocka,

donator

Schwartary

Pucoly too bus working wich yor

20

Tell; denial man moondo. this wee

wonlt go on overdons. i ties is organization vas scan ki!

chat the loser se

23

25

Wind m00547

Ak Was nirved that she deputy of be porter would be i sai

TOP SECRET

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 63

TOP SECRET

1002 went Ailed

officer.

merotore Kale was assigned to that, he continued

to receive his par, quoctors, and other allowance through the

military

establishment,

Sana tox

Schuckket*

what about wher he was at the Havang

enbausy?

you are calling about, I quesa: after he loft the lavana

embassy.

- 17

20

xa%.

I an talking abous the partoe

44964

forward,

40d. ps

Focall,

he must have.been. thore up to the

and

of my tonice chere.

I have

forgorcen. when ho loft. have

no knowledge of mia notivsties

In Movona: *Ias was beferé ni

he served in Havana, that ho ha

shat i ter

23

1.4

15

in the stallon,

bat & haul no firsthand

novicedo

Senator Schwoitex,

jon alious Weler. Brown or Colonel

wichols,

the sane guession, Robert brown?

note

Robers scoon.

seriator: vou! li have to give me goneshine

doche give me anycling.

we other was what.

Colonel xuelals?

Mags liards Madore

18

09

320

21

22

23

8.4

23

Havana entinosy

we some yo2 Lite: de Dea

would bave no knowledge of air.

Donator Sonwalkor.

dow, tins moss soup called

Counta Fantasies

she you failiar with

chat: group?

I have huard the pale.

TOP SECRET

NNW:55510

Doeld: 32423435

---

## Page 64

TOP SECRET

Piece: | Aras 2023

Sanacoe Schwelker,

And it. was a projoot where two

American pilots: were killod: "The store conducted sone para

military apocation.

*7

I 0

Thist docante ring: a bell, but the Celule

Fantasna is a name

that live heato. 1 canti put it into aiy

broadox context for you.

le certainty was not one

sif out

operations.

Seracox Schwesket i

That was really my guestion.

Do you recall i was there angons using the nand of

-zyptorane of sishop for yod at any point in time in tarne o

the Cuban operastons, ulthes Moccis bishop or some other

Bishow?

13

18

14

chas name socon" beans anything to me.

Fanated Sonnel ter

Here de a shatch at a person.

Does

this: sketch look like anvone that migh have been assonauta;

cubar oporations, vither pro castro of unti-Castro?

Inse Witness Looks at e skecol

100-4

te doses'e.

i moan, thurs as sonathi,

so the lace shae is talliar, but i can't put a nade ti

Le ax i donore vive any bello with ni in celationship to

27

19

19

20

21

22

20

25

Scrolor SChinetkory

Seymour, bow about pos, iny cocollectoo?

1x Balcon:

Is it sapposed to la tubar or an Arericati

Sole cor

Schwrikdx.

I thuth an Acericat, but fir not e:

TOP SECRET

NWE: 35510

Doc1đ/32425435

---

## Page 65

TOPISECRET

6

9

10

12

14-

1.6

1,2

18.

19

20

on

that; someone: who did da sone work in the Cuban activitie

supposedly on the anti. Castco side.

He has vecy rogular fontures, no he couts

be almost anybody, rou knox:

And dako: John says, la ia a sort of - he could be famil!

No,

7 wouldnte place. bin with anyone I krow.

Senator Schwalkok: Ga nhoad:

Mix.

dolinaton, Do you recall birector Necose visteing tha

station in early December 0%

mid-Decembor of 19632

Me. McCone

made couple of visits to

Florida, 2'n not sure it would be fois to say that ha

visited the station. My recolloction of coat to he came to

Fiorida. He was put in tus moperty that we hod, e had

converpatione with hin out at that property, bus he

iladn"t

cono out to the physical plate, that is, our clatton arenase,

and

da most dadas

he vas. unasty en zoute to or coming

back

frog. doneshere,

Me: Johnston. bo: 10% cocall

much a viole in beccaber b:

13657

22

23

24

25

I cants pen le com to chas cincicine lis

ocher vozos, mi nonory is acci, sume co diami sovoral times.

Mc- d91064s

Well, let's put be in the simetro at a

thort person alter the moons antioy of Proobdent Kenner:

I cannot pac de lace the timelrane. i jus

can "l..

All 1 eir sole you to hocode case down to Piozidi or

TOP SECRET

NWHHS55L0

D001/d/32423435

---

## Page 66

TOR SECRET

5

6

a numbar. of occasions*

You know, 18 you asked no

What your

impression I don't know, merbo three, tour.

Re, Johnuton, Do You Focall anyono Lron headquarte

going down to Viast: with you in Doctabax 19632 Again, this

1s shorely astor the sovassination of Prisidont Kannedy.

you have the chronology? Was latvoy

10

Ax, Johnston..

No, dt was Fitagerald.

Okay: Mo: I, don't, because Harvey periodisul

was in aced to come dow die the tims of the Orange

тони ta;

Harvey"

i do concited

young to r cranyo

Boss game with

I would haw

to say no, i donte,

17

14

1.5

1 6.

17

19

20

21

22

Ne: dohnston.

Do you know i dad you havo bay dascussioas

wash an nand

Kand the headyunders

56015

stinct de. the Assassor:

Kennedy

focan: operations

Al axons to m sooical that these au

Kanchasion at chat

cocall ide

Im trade you love to mue chan in to kind on

no princes

25

25

Well be lates won i wallo to tend tor

She was & vory active

varlod.. I was Worklog 14, 13, 16 Jar;

TOP SECRET

NA TH

S9520

D001d654423435

---

## Page 67

CC

655310

2

S

11

16

12

20

22

24

:25

TON SECRET

64

daya a wook,: and a lot of this is

a blue to

So when you aay do pou cemenber biccone coming. 105, I 10

remanber that. Can you put it is a tine frame of " to &

Docenber, 20, 1 can't.

Nr, Jolinaton. Can you pus it in the timelzame al shortly

attor the assassination of che Presidentr

X. can. You know, you asked no, did: anyboda

done down to vloit you in the Decenbor timerame. that's my

¿ ashod youabout who was the chied because

I do cécall goin

CD

an Orange Dost sone with Harvay sne goar, bes came downr

Magerald con down a coule of cines, but i donte cannert

has over connu in the chilston timosrones you know?

me Johnator. Do you vocal having discussions winh -

and 1 case is your knowse ke yen n do you socall diacusuza.

besucer zou and someone fron headquarters about the affect..

President Kennecy', marsition on the Cuban operation?

a buce that thore word

do the rodren going to do bow are we sos.

Mitri, i contate sharon te los for you:

Do all coad soch discussion with

TOP SECRET

455

---

## Page 68

tanda 2020 144

NOR SECRET.

Mx: Johnstol, Do you recall such a discuseton wtch

Mr. Kelms?

4

2

10

1 k

No, I have to come back to the basic point.

I don't fecali

this kind of sorol the conversation with

pactioular individual. but t an auxe that these Kinds as

conversations wust have taken place with nombody fson Kashin

ton or when

I was up here In Washington.

Ma, Johnston, tol no show you the cable that you: lockud

de provioualy botos, ve wont on tha socord, which is WAVE cubir

8339

of

dovenbes. 1963, and the copy we have is bareis

legible

"the giac of that to the lose dubored unragrosh

regoris information WiVE outadned on an induricud) naned

Rodriquez in Dallas, and dias, I thine

reports, le you was

cord thieut the poor torosing, that Rodrigor was Chought ti

34

Xy quescior beins, Whore woule yoo have bottch that

12

go dy and toon kg wine the

271

222

27.

24

More do be honost lito done 7 can*t lead

wu"d have to

man is ood wid laterally

(minussion all the record

TOP SECRET

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 69

TOP SECRET

3

9

10

11

12

13

9 2

HAVE tences, now, that indicates to me that

chatover vos done huce was boded on the matcrial that var:

passively in the files,

Wadre Uld natocial that was

La our Files.

We got material

that was in these filei tron agent reorking, we got it fron

refogoe debriosings, He got de from our, you know, fron

SOUTDUK

din: the: Cuban

community who more xeporting on Cuban

groups, We got ic on a monitoring of the cuban press, and the

Spaniab proso in alani, Me got le From monitoring radio broad-

ND:EU5

a04 59

forth po that de was. this kind of i conglonerte

information.

Now, It's Lake a nano, you know, like lodelgacs. A

none like Rodrigues in the card vile, chore might be two

indice of Rodelatezes

You know, 18 you waze looking lon a

spect fix Rodeiguezy

Carlos Rafael fodriquad, you know, at

take this, thon you d

have to pist

1e down, in echar vordo,

age, What his memberahlo mos to he party and unloga lixe Skat

Do that Indroatos to no Chat ve found onix material in the

16

19

18

39

20.

21

22.

#10./1u 57/000: 9K5:

24

ino the source de. 1 don*t hur

We"d have. to look in

the cryps vau dans end crus nove and pugbe even tien tea

T91) F01.

Pa, johnson. Me, cait source 15 Mable to bo a 2a

salem in Meants deton soccer

well, hos. boing are to read the third.

TOP SECRET

NWHO 35L0

DocIdeS2425435

---

## Page 70

TOP SECRET

63

4 2001 564600

doatE evan want to speculate on if

Hr: sohnaton:

Did you have sources in Alpha 667

tas, us Cines there bore sources in Aiplia 64

Me: Johnston

Did you have

sourcis is. SNEET

6

10

2: 3.

12

1 3

ME :

Johneton.

Diá you have sources, in the time period.

8 td

talking about, Movenber 163 Elrough the spring of 19642

I would hove to bay the probability

2o high

thoe we dad

send sort of. & source

in thos group, bur

I'u have to go back, you know, and check the zecord, and it

sona nave to be rosearchod, but my recolluction to thas is l

so said have soardes on thas group Dos wi

se another.

Are you aware uf a Cion exile ergantiali

oi anti-coore organization calted the Chriettan Donocratte

1.5

16

die. Johnston;

Did you havo scusdes la Meco

tony we diu.

byer, D.6: 20047

18

3.9

21

22

23

20

25

thare is i boot: ke pus out a boot it kiar sin which ida

FROM NO DIE DA CO MACALE YOU 90

priately. there vere 250 sonorodd exite groupies, dad is:

TOP SECRET

NAH: 55549

DocId/02425435

---

## Page 71

Thx

1000110

1OP SECRET

oona (Aris 2070 (4:6000

4

dián'l havo all 250 ponotrated, lf you caally vant to know the

to that, walt have t get the book, look up the dates,

anà: key ko see who the loadershis vore.

Ne: olinston. boes thas book condair ese namco of the

Inasorchips

2 0

12

15

Xers

In nost of the cases de containg he

mamas of the major loteres.

Mk dohnston.

0dd you have that book al approxinately ci

timaperiod. of boverber 163 chrough December 1607

The book was pus que and

Lines,

1 39132

havo troube doming Anco arectric datos

Voltacon:

inoproclase chat faris

I undoratana ira

TACTO 13

pueda ass of catorestion

-Gb Band

607/53

MON

anaver yud

paludent manos: te no a0y Cal Chace dis such y g2oay.

#teor pou

te aniornition Vol krove ye can look de ua

Los

yOu.

15

ackascony

Wid-

Celota ind Wree47011y02

3

dia tild con de tenden sho camisertion ave ate

0405, 9/9/19021

TOP SECRET

Docid.

52123435

---

## Page 72

ni one (Arms ponisa

NN#: 55510

TOP SECRET

09

8

10

(Dho: Nichess reads the document. 1

No, I Jonft.. You know, the cryptonym AKrOB

rins i boll wich ne.. I an facultar with the cryptonya.

10rd

spocitically AuROD 1 16 1 can*t tell you:

REading the

Contents

of tile nscode, you know, this &S

i massage doted

Deconbes 63, I would say

that we got a nessage In: 890797

waitian via

and Mall Exon sono boucco in Cuba, and he 16

SANTA!

inia lazormation,

Who he is, what collability ne placed on a pactacular

BOUTON

we inve

Sir Johnston:

13

16

Wasy what I manam you

what second: he noc and us forth, toothi

da Mic ad, you know, vet the file, I would lir

Lo teac te mo she what the txie says.

da. Jorrston. And in connoction With the assass tol10r

Prosidene donnady, thun you get incoration ties that. yos

viewed

Esachballe chasiny de to Meadquarters, 14

was the soud mant for maalan togecher as kinds of dos..

shas wine doston asce car Meters seed cheri

in Cao teporcing do yes ob caribly seeing Cavali;

moble stoo shassantiaots.

I Sorte wone wok to houd ve to chos, and r

25

TOP SECRET

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 73

TOP SECRET

2

WETI

get the file and ft says that thin ind an SA messaga

fron i guy in Hardes or sonothing, yin Jast roading a mesage

and deductivo analysis or what 1 Krios Che case to have hrari.

6

20

72

16

1.4

1, 5

10

Johnsion, Walli Chatte a correct acacemont or the

message.

that righer

Tea, F'é save to go on the basis that ve

cocorded material

iccurately: Phorefose, by the way this

096 SANd

analysis

I an having io conclude thos

it was

source inside cuba.

comixton.

Thed 1 put ko

y0l sue question in cesari

to 2hils provious testameng abone Labiano sauroda

Cladonar

jo were verla mondages tue ad cord, you recall

no dotion being kahon koough the sive scotlon to tad

Now, wion a mossado tike this it is concor

kou'd have co. Lock back

W140 EX2

Shure att

ad. cronil guscions, you knosa liao alri are chose poopie,

18

9

-20

I an alrig lot oil the coy or my had.

The cary toe

I Could Coach a to go back do sad tie.

22

42-7

waxen save dose dates do standes 1053 ME 0% t

mirand Chit

26

TOP SECRET

NW# 735510

Docid/32425455

---

## Page 74

TOP SECRET

S4(0/02 202) 344-6000

or of receiving that information?

I would have to say because

of the Indisater

on horo; the commun cotton syston dos very reliabiar

char

chia

nicasage was boccared, bacuuse

that*s what li shows, but

personally have no xecollection of shan nessage..

Max Johaston, Cond Mnve have mado n concibucion to this

20002*2

tr.

30

122

Well, again, i have to go baok do to talu

I SayS Cho abole 1s

from a Knursed deplonate

i assumes

Chas chat was Soon & Hexicon:

diplomat: Featlan?.

then shot would decemons Machor we could have made "

cinda wire a

Lim whoa: so is Wave Had

2. 6

17

18

rocknited ayents

what cripconyn coone ting any bolls wich me. Now you tre

no ya back and lock in dor look lo che scle, and that would

colt gos whathor we wore zaming the yog or hot.

Me Johnston: TA

chas

the pady evaluation. you. cout

made 7

20

22

224

near verify an the Flight?

TOP SECRET

NW#* 55510

Bocld 32423435

---

## Page 75

TOP SECRET

was 190c inel aniv

0e what was

che mensago, how was it sent,

what was

the text

of che message.

Senator Schwalker. What wes you; rolattonship vich a

group: called che

Exdo Cuba Conmicteo thas 1 believe was pegam:

chrough the Malch Corpont heck la Washingcon?

Could you give ne sone addittonel inforbation

mas Chis dothel. Laul Bochel, Che

Free Suba Committee?

Senatos Rematkor.

Kolix. Again 7 belleve Mes. Auce

invervod

chis Committes as voll, und theie ware

10

12

Na x

de Dial Motinels

2oul 10c2el

was ad Anorisar sho had frain:

un nu ta pues sonci mir dogs que de mon coni y la poderio

ane

ad vere anse in ood en these cuboa. -~

conocor Schweiker Moll, 1in not suro.

* don'e huro die tho names.

no11, the Free Cobo Connarico, as Buche Wiki

D.X: 2028

20

22

wy e Made astor miase ve con Conca descar

He art

Sos dren"

:2/1

TOP SECRET

NW## 55510

Docid:

192423455

---

## Page 76

TOP SECRET

pooitiiad l20e Meri 900142

Genater

schwesker.

Connatcaas,

And there were all klnds of Cubar

S.

B

Thatfa zighe, and thorafoze, unlees there. iu

a hane that joos with iti 1 have eroiblo drodging it out.

Senatoi sohvolken: 12 ciuht:

1

nhạns:

dld your work involve any working zotacionshly

cxo

in Washingcon?

pad wos use then' in any colastonchip at ajlr

NO y

nny Krowladpe

Jenaber Actwaiket.

Oher; C'ih des soncbod. else bordia

MAsio dxaws

118*091 82, Masina0a,D,C (uovr

14

15

26

1.*7

18

29

2S

22.7

Chat.

New axoit the baut flae foo dod tauniecee?

307.al Aidel

Yant beoaran, chot cose ga

mlncionairto torgorting Quwale.om

did you bab wich then ainse shoy obriouily hod sone forrin

ancollivende cxtationshiy?

J002 ÷

In oifor vonds, we foie chat: 6lat

Witvt

in oroon aaacion shai rodly os incorest to Sho 10ci

Socncor Mhwexaud

ozaven midid nave aedcatar

oio B0ctkude

Pab; ma bn

5ae a pocten dabod lanttice

Motconx uok dos

tarWaty doidhet

Mloriox de0ordB-

1704151

cosccoriadolilosodo #:"d0r dod deaa0laly catiailkii di

eorroh lnnh on bonge coooatird ia intadtadtaai

k. man meuss ot chose boxos du ooide torm lie t t

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510

Docld::32423435

---

## Page 77

10

TOP SECRET

Averloan flight contre lato the United States, and che.

cologees coming is adancity agents as that, identity agents

who mighe be trylos to pondtrace. our

patani licary conns de

one of our collection at operations,

We 9140 vere Looking it Cuban Intelliquace officezo wiie

were stattoned overseas, In other words, could our debrietir

01 knowledgeable people result da

das idenaltying, doc's say.

Che

Dãi guy an Mexico Clay de to Madrids we could then:

mount an operation on the basia of that to tecruit hin, ta .

mainsain him in place as a source within the Goban

sacoleo. So 4y 408 Chat. kind ot

concorintelligence Apptoast

* A LEK.

do the kime you bhow decale dude care it id to l4/

19

15

16

in, 7.

2,3

tron t'd like to ark pou for sone advice pet

the recously wors

you just save ds sine madanco.

Da the cocord hell, bow about 2d occadara deo ca)197

My Husk SeTSE Meague Ad 2009T

Ni

bid son

sode quite 24410444444a3y

20

senator Schnocket. Do cret the slape or das ar th

wonta was called so tay

4006 Mr deladoo held toole

2255

TOP SECRET

NW#

755510

Docid: 32423435

---

## Page 78

TOPI SECRET

7%:

Clad

to gay the ciA.

Nọi that

dossn'& ring any batis wich ne.

Sonator Schweiker*

Ten there is a

8

10

Senator

Schweikar,

alosida banker.

paramilitary di some kind of oporations:

Involved 4p

Wall, thase wore bus phores,

was Naoavel. Ly Che Boy as 1496 Oporation, In cleantne up some

cuins suas che familios or dns or tho of the pilots had who.

extobed avelved in the Bay of Pige.

And 1 woulo

nave

K44V9t

wies

nhue vas in rodud wer 0s af the time wiel

Gation, and a0 providos, 81 cocu

1acokost0%

1 B

: 16

12

183

* 9

216A

20

Ehongs as dock conce ab marines fox boats and tens lik t

Denocor Converrere

5. 24

4474

MID FININ

irama tort

"emporal comida isos a vice president vi

TOP SECRET

NN#: 55510

Dodld: 32423435

---

## Page 79

sci

NMF65510

some 14060: 202/ Bl

1:3

14

16

78

19

20

21

2R

21-1

25

TOP SECRET

Chat

company.

a rosis. & Craveled excensively in the

busduess social community.

At that point we had one of the

Large: coverd paytolid In So

th Kaami, turd I was

a nonber as

& nunbor de clubs;

and peoplo like kelovoll I Wouls noce

ac dock 2a12

battles

dinners, you know, ot the yacht clu

chat

I belonged to or whatover; but offsclally, in terma at

business. dense. i only

recall talking wald

CHINE 1

chink.

Sonitox Schwedkeri

Pala ho look Arching like that.

piecure?

the Withere looks

as the shorehey

MO.*

Ai chat tire be sorte have boed nuch

neuvret

nobod wich trin

Me, de nacon, Did you avar dircuse thy Kennedy ansari

No, & spolan l have, & woolante have cale:

acout that. My cocotloction

1a Che hand of things chat is

MAVC

wondo. have boch the tornast

O: 30.x ovor conbany,

the purchari of book, the renca? 0d

turn tended a you anot

when heat wet go don"t recalt wiecher you talked

TOP SECRET

35

---

## Page 80

TOP SECRET

77

Poona CASA DORI: 548.(000

4 Macone or lette about a connection betweer

the Kennedy

aapassination and the Cubor Ovexation.

Well, jou know, some of choo

chines. make

intEgrene kdada di angace of yoU. & 103k.

was dh tha

Pace. of

the county where ve

Ward locolou was

an

impostont

Figure

we had i bank bot too ese from voore te wore locateil

Moony it

ade people dad test banking

each Dam, and

3o forthe

34.01

12

Are Johnacon.

1. Chaughe that. Ner Heine and Ne. Mcdone.

would alao nake

al inpression.

Rell, Noone, pes, you know, I wont to sic:

moles with Necoe An vehanator and our placese mind

1 done cads.

thie to cod blood card bastie cos direre.

Do i eide fe cooll, but you doors necessnaily cocali tri

Case CAme 2220e dee

puite at slothose

I've bean involved

28

19

pid wait code lasti

Ler edent.

whales mak out win

Agina or tartar

24

Juanand ate Too mans Gerations Colate Leas

TOP SECRET

NA

755310

Doold: 32423435

---

## Page 81

TOP SECRET

70

I don't recalt it.

Nr, Johuaton, 1% le vóu donte recall such a discuaston:

hurdog soch a alscudeion: or you have a cacollection and laui

Peechsection is there wore no discuesions:

No, i don't pocat sucb a discussion, phat"

Ive Baid sevoral. elinze, 1 ausumo that auch discussions

cock Wlace: bat frankly, & dontt rocale that.

Senator

Schwerker. Ald sight, that's all so hade.

Wie?

surochate

your cooperation and jout testiony. I de want

t% ank Fos sons quidance off the record.

1.0

7.7

nov unicled machor wus concluded.?

22

16

18

19

20

D@110045.109-1990M

TOP SECRET

NAT:

55 52 0

Docid:32423435

---

