# 157-10005-10229

## Page 1

157-10005-10229 •

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 10/02/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10229

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R2147

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

- REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS/ TRANSCRIPT

DATE : 01/11/76

PAGES : 51

SUBJECTS :

HTINT, E. HOWARD, JR.

EMAN, RANDALI, ESQ.

CULIN AIR FORCE BASE,

FT. WALTON, FLORIDA

ALLEGED CIA PLOT TO ASSASSINATE JACK ANDERSON

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

S0X 248-11

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955

DocId: 32202419

Page 1

---

## Page 2

INN SICKEI

18

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD

PAUL

410 First Street,

S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Iun into somebody on the street in Georgetown, a mutual friend,

some weeks

before who by coincidence happened to say, oh, I

saw Manny Gunn the other day. He's retired and practicing out

in Maryland. And that has got to be it because he was not an

intimate of mine. We didn't keep in close touch. So I never

attempted to get in touch with him at the Agency. I simply

looked him up or called information or something like that,

invited him into lunch and said I had a matter I wanted to

discuss with him.

Mr. Liebengood. Did you ever tell anybody or otherwise

make known to anybody at the Agency that you had just had this

contact with DI. Gunn?

Mr. Hunt. I don't believe so. I think

Jack Bauman, may

have known about it subsequently because he was a close friend,

but I don't think that I got in touch with Manny through him.

of.course, e

Bauman.

was retired, too.

Mr. Liebengood. Would you have told Batman, about this or

would Gunn have told him about it?

Mr. Hunt. If in factanman knew about it?

Mr. Liebengood. Yes.

Mr. Hunt. I would have to say it was either Gunn or

Liddy.

Mr. Liebengood. Did you make any arrangements or have any

discussions with DI. Gunn about maintaining the confidentiality

of your inquiry?

NW 50955 DocId:32202419 Page 2

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

37

1

2

3

MI. Hunt: No.

MI. Baron. Did you meet Richard Nixon personally at that

time?

& PAUL

WARD

Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

When did you first meet with him?

MI. Hunt. Met with him, I never met with him. I have

met him on several occasions but I never had a private seance

with him. I met him first at Harvey's restaurant in about

1953, and I next saw him in Montevidea where I interpreted for

him for a while. I was Chief of station down there and we.

were waiting for General Walters to arrive, and I served as

an interpreter.

I next saw President Nixon at a formal White House recep-

tion. He recalled, or he said he recalled our previous meetings,

and I told him I was now working for Chuck Colson, and he said

yes, I know all about that. And that's all in my book, Undercover

MI. Baron. While you were in the Nixon White House you

didn't have a direct line to the President?

Mr. Hunt. I never met the President.

Mr. Baron: Moving back to 1964, there is a note in

Theodore White's book, "Breach of Faith," that refers to

spying at Barry Goldwater's headquarters, which Howard Hunt

of the CIA had supervised for LBJ in 1964.

MI. Hunt. That's in my book and in my testimony.

MI. Baron. Senator Schweiker, who is a member of our

Committee, has expressed an interest in a quote by Frank Sturgis

NW 50955. DocId: 32702419 Page 3

TAD CEFDET

---

## Page 4

LIN DEUKEI

44

Phone (Area 202' 544-6000

WARD

PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

I7 50955 DocId:32202419 Page 4

this before, but I can't recall where.

Mr. Liebengood. Was it Robert Kennedy?

Mr. Hunt. No, the death of John Kennedy. She had been

introduced to me by Martinez who brought her to my hotel room.

He provided the tape recorder for our discussion. He did not

help me translate it because I don't need help. I did that

back in the White House, and I was assisted to some extent by

Mary Kiyonaga, who is the daughter of a

former CiA oft ses

She

happened to be in the office next

to mine. In any event,

this is a raw report. The woman's bona fides were established:

solely b

Rolando Martinez, who we determined later was on the CIA

payroll at that time, although I did not know it. I provided

a raw report and submitted it to the Chief of the wi division.

MI. Liebengood. Did you ever get any feedback from that

report?

Mr. Hunt. None. Oh, I gave a copy to Charles Colson.

Mr. Liebengood. The same affidavit suggests, and there is

supporting information that in addition to the information for

WH, the transmittals to DI. Malloy, that there was, I think the;

wording in the affidavit says gossip information passed on to

Richard Helms.

Do you remember using that channel to communicate wich Picta

Helms in any fashion?

Mr. Hunt. No, at no time.

MI. Liebengood. Do you know MI. Charles Wylie in vew

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

-

45.

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

4

5

.. 6

•

WARD

PAUL

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

York, a journalist?

MI. Hunt. No.

Mr. Liebengood. Are you aware of any Agency interest

during the time you had left the Agency and was with Mullen

and the White House, of any Agency interest in Robert Vesco

and his activities?

Mr. Hunt.

NO.

Mr. Liebengood. Were you ever asked to coordinate any

White House interest in Robert Vesco with the Agency?

Mr. Hunt. No.

Mr. Liebengood. Do you remember how you happened to get

ahold of Jack Bauman or when you were talking with him, because

of any security work?

Mr. Hunt. How did I get in touch with him. I wrote him.

And those letters are a matter of record.

Mr. Liebengood. I know we've been over the ground about

when your contact with him

was. There was some information

to indicate that Charles Kane had suggested that you get ahold

of Bauman.

Mr. Hunt. No. I served with kane and would not have

ever approached him for any recommendations.

Mr. Liebengood. So there was no Kane contact with regard

•to

Bauman:

MI. Hunt. Not that I can recall, no.

Bauman"s address

had been known to me. He wrote me a couple of times a year

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32202419 Page 5

---

