# 157-10011-10053

## Page 1

157-10011-10053

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10053

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING

DATE : 07/11/75

PAGES : 101

SUBJECTS :

TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING; WITNESS, HARVEY, WILLIAM K.

EXHIBITS:

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP: LANSDALE, BRIG.

[R.

OPERATION MONGOOSE

[R]

EXHIBIT: MCCONE'S MEMORANDUM OF APRIL 26, 1962 RE CUBA

[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box 246, Folder 1 (R-486)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955 DocId: 32203821

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

15

÷1

2

3

4

5

6

(118)

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

First

410

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Schwarz. Reflecting a minute of the meeting on May

3Id, Present:

General Taylor, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Johnson; Mr.

Gilpatric, General Decker, General Lansdale and General

Craig; Mr. McCone, and Mr. Harvey.

Here I would like to read into the record the entirety

of paragraph 2, which is: "Mr. Harvey gave a rundown on

progress to date, with agent teams and in the general field of

intelligence, including the Opa-locka interrogation center and

the

clandestine interrogation center. He outlined

various difficulties encountered and said the three agent teams

had been infiltrated and the five W/T sets are in place.

Approximately 72 actual or potential reporting sources are

also in place. A significant development is that Major Duque

has refused to allow agents responsive to him to be dispatched

on purely intelligence-gathering missions. (This sort of

attitude had been forecast earlier as a possibility, but it now

assumes particular importance in view of Duque's stature.)"

All right.

Now, having marked these three exhibits, Mr. Harvey, they

surround your visit to Miami when you passed the poisoned pills

to Roselli for assassination purposes.

Now you have testified that when you were in Miami you

did a lot of other things. Could you first state what they

are?

MH 50955 DocId:32203821 Page 2

Mr. Harvey. Well, basically, this was one of a number of

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

TOP SECRET

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED A 25/94

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

28

1

2

3

4

5

6

operations, and that I had been previously been

Chief deng

Station in Berlin for a number of years. The only time the

007 comment was ever made to my knowledge was at a Special

Group (Augmented) meeting, and the sort of facetious comment

by the then-Attorney General, why can't you -- and this was a

part of his sort of favorite author was Ian Fleming, and so

on -- why can't you gentlemen get things cooking the way 007

does?

WARD

PAUL

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

HH 50955. DocId: 32203821

Page 3

That's the only time I ever recall that being made, or that

type of reference being made.

As far as this business of the firearms is concerned, the

only incident that ever happened on that is the one that I

mentioned a moment ago, gentlemen. There was one occasion wher

as I recall I was at lunch and was called from the Director's

Office and told to go to the White House because of a meeting.

I did happen to be armed at the time, and it occurred to

me as I went in downstairs at the White House that it was most

inappropriate for anybody except the Secret Service officer to

go up to the White House offices armed, so I checked the sidearn

that I had with the Secret Service officer at the desk, and I

picked it up on the way out.

That is the only incident, as far as I know, not only as

far as I know, it is the only incident that ever happened which

even remotely resembles the question you raised.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Are you deserAllARy dyEcoNfits

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

TOP SECRET

AS SANITIZED I, 5111944

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

-6000

gặn 16

1

rea

56

5

6

WARD

& PAUL

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

(e) 28

20

21

22

23

24

25

documents we discussed previously.

After you called Frank Hand about the 13 August memo Eröm

Lansdale, did you talk to anyone else about the part that

you desired excised from that memo?

MI. Harvey. Yes;,I probably mentioned the particular memo

and the excised parts to several people, Mr. Smothers, and

starting with the Director, I am not sure I mentioned that to

him personally or not.

Mr. Smothers. The Director, you mean Mr. McCone?

Mr. Harvey. Yes. If I did not, then I am rather sure

that I briefed Walter Elder to brief the Director on this.

I may also have discussed it with the Director personally.

The memorandum that you have in the record was written

to Helms. I believe that was in part confirmatory of an

oral conversation I had with him. I probably would have

mentioned it, or possibly may have mentioned it to two other

individuals who very possibly could have seen the memorandum

before I did. One wöuld have been Sam Halpern and the other

would have been truce cheater, who is my deputy.

But now on this last answer, Mr. Smothers, I'm just

telling you it would have been logical had I done so. I do

not have any firm recollection.

Ma. Smothers. Do you recall if you discussed it with

any of the other addressees?

Mr. Harvey. No, I do not believe that I did, although

TOP SECRET

1W 50955 DocId: 32203821

Page 1

---

## Page 5

26 Apx1l 1962

44

R459

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

CUBA

1.

General Lanadale reported on the activitles as per the

attached report. McCone expreesed dissatisfaction with progreas;

stated nothing had been accomplished in putting Cubans in the Army

for training and that no actions had been taken on matters decided

two weaks ago, (In other words, I was very disagreeable.) McCone

finally recommended more action; acceptance of attribution 11

necessary; establishment of training facilities; training of guerrillas

and a more dynamic effort in the infiltration of both agente and

guerrillas.

ACTION: A meeting should be arranged between McCose,

Lazadale, and Harvey, immediately upon Harvey's return,

2. The Attorney General requested coples of the Dally Reports on

the Opa Lala interrogation, General Taylor instructed Lansdalo to

prepare a summary of the reports, paying particular attention to

• apecific items of information on complaints which were recurring in

succesalve interviews.

3. General Taylor requested that Mr. Harvey attend the next

meeting and report on agent activites.

4. General Taylor suggested that MeCone roview the memorandum

summarizing "Communist Indoctrination of Latin America" with the

President at the earliest opportuaity.

5.. NPIC made a most interesting presentation of the last

CORONA) light.

ACÍION: McCone agreed to arrange briefing for the President

at the earlient convenient time; also brlefing for Macmillan when he

is here, at a convenient time.

RECEIVED FRO

NO DISTRIBUTION

JUL = = 1975

CIA

JAM/ji

JOHN A. MeCONE

Director

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED 12 Tan S4 en

SEBACT-EVES 3U1-

---

