# 157-10004-10280

## Page 1

157-10004-10280

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/02/94

Page :1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10004-10280

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :

ROBERT MAHEU'S TRANSPORTATION OF PROSTITUTES

DATE : 10/10/57

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU, ROBERT

ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

PROSTITUTES

FOREIGN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION • U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST.,

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId:32202169

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRE

T

Clean Copy of IN 20362

10 Retake 1957

DIRECTOR

CIUDAD. TRUTTLLO

IN 20362

CITE

(TRUS 272A

RE:

HIDCW

119

1. CIA source called COS urgently 9 Oct and turned over two

documents charging that Robert M. Maheu violated Mann Act in

procuring and transporting prostitutes for a

foreign leader during

state visit U. S. 1956, that this done with tacit approval State.

Also charge Maheu with wire tapping OPS against Onassis Shipping

Co in 55, that this done with tacit approval U. S. Government and

known to CIA, State and FBI.

2.g

expressed low interest info but agreed pouch to

CIA.

3. On 8 Oct!

gave identical documents to DCM who

pouched same 9 Oct to State for action AMB Farland. Told DCM a

hígh

foreign official desires wide distribution U. S. Government

agencies.

4. CIA source believes only possible source above documents

Is John Joseph Frank who formerly close to Maheu.

5. FC: DOM objective possibly blackmall U.S. Government,

kill Frank Trial.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE IO KAPOK CABLES.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

(1) (A).

AS SANITIZED

(11B)

27-7-94

01450

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

+2123/98

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFIGF

S

RE Y

HY 50955 DooId: 32202169 Page 2

---

