157-10011-10102 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
a ett Date:10/07/93 ~
a : i Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

@ 4 IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10102

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM : DWYER, DAN AND GREISSING, ED
TO : FILES

TITLE :
INTERVIEW SUMMARY: ROCCA, RAYMOND

DATE : 03/15/76

PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS :
ROCCA, RAYMOND, RETIRED CHIEF, CI/RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS, CIA [R]
E THE GPFLOOR PHASE [R]
THE WARREN COMMISSION PHASE

INVESTIGATION OF CUBAN LEADS
CIA ATTEMPTS AGAINST CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
SSCI Box 337, Folder 6 (VI-C-3-W), (ROCCA)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32203870 Page 1


ONAN OU MARE CORRE OAR ARN
SSCI Box 337, Folder 6 “3

® - Record Number 157-10011-10102
INTERVIEW SUMMARY pone wenn ser amemmmenl =
Interview With: Raymond Rocca —_—--—
Interviewers: Dan Dwyer and Ed Greissing EG
DATE: 3/15/76

Place: Arlington, VA

Ed Greissing and Dan Dwyer of the SSC staff interviewed

Raymond Rocca, retired Chief, Counterintelligence/Research
and Analysis, CIA, at his home in Arlington, Virginia ons
March 15, 1976. The vurpose of the interview was to clarify
the role of the CIA in the investigation of President Kennedy's
assassination.

eo] (1) The GPFLOOR Phase. The GPFLOOR phase of the CIA's
investigation of the assassination covered the period of
November 23, 1963 until January 23, 1964. Rocca explained that

(a
Richard Helms, DDP, delegated desk chief of the al

Western Hemisphere division, to direct and control the CIA's
responses to information that was being reported from CIA stations
around the globe. Most of the information the CIA received

came from Mexico City where Oswald had contacted the Soviet and

Cuban diplomatic establishments in late September and early

was probably involved in Helms' decision to haveg

direct the GPFLOOR investigation.

si10N TO
CIAHAS NO oB.ee i Ht DIOR

FCAT!
Ree OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED be

yD

HW 50955 DocId:32203870 Page 2


(2) Warren Commission Phase. Rocca places the ibeginning

of the Warren Commission vhase around January 23, 1964, when J.

Lee Rankin contacted Helms and asked for CIA assistance for the
Commission. Helms delegated Rocca to be the "point of contact"

of the CIA with the Warren Commission. Rocca's own Counterintelli-
gence staff involved in research matters for the Commission
included Tom Dooley, Paul Hartman and Thomas Hall. Other CIA

Murphy (h ()

(Chief of SB), J.C. King, Wigren (Chief SB Research), and Bagley

personnel involved with the Commission were J@

(Deputy Chief SB). Rocca noted that as liaison became more
informal, staff members of the Commission had direct contact
@ with gintceen Murvhy, Wirgren and Bagley, Helms naintained(A@)
direct contact with Rankin.
Rocca emphasized that the Warren Commission phase was not
interpreted by CIA as an investigation. Rocca said that when

the Warren Commission "task force’ was established, all

cables and materials generated in the GPFLOOR period from fijmmils
desk were made available to the task force. Rocca added, however,
that the task force made no appraisal of the GPFLOOR phase. When
questioned if the Warren Commission "task force" reviewed Mexico
City traffic to check name traces, for example, Rocca replied

the material was left alone excevt for the allegations such as

apiuy)

the Alvarado matter which concerned the Commission. [WHigeny

° ECRET

HW 50955 Docid:32203870 Page 3 N Ss



handled requests from the Commission that dealt with the Mexico

City allegations.

(3) Investigation of Cuban Leads. Rocca commented that

the Cuban resident tour (Cuban diplomatic and intelligence
personnel) in Mexico City should have been more carefully
examined. Rocca opined that the Commission staffers who
visited Mexico City made a perfectly sound request to inter-
view Silva Durran themselves. Rocca stated he could never
understand why the request wasn't granted. Rocca noted that
the personnel at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City of greatest
interest were Louisa Calderon and (fnu) Rodriguez, who were

- both DGI. Rodriguez was the Deputy Chief of the resident tour
in 1963. Rocca noted that Rodriguez ran two known assassination
operations in Nicaragua.

Rocca also noted that Rodriguez ran V.T. Lee into Cuba in
December 1962-January 1963. Rocca feels this information needs
a full address in light of Oswald's FPCC connection.

Rocca stated that he was unaware of any requests from
the Warren Commission that dealt with WAVE operations or Cuban
groups. Rocca noted that immediately following the assassination,
Paul Hartman was instructed to collect all information from the
CIA which was contained in its files on Oswald. Rocca suggested
that the SSC contact Hartman to ask him if he levied any request

@ on or conducted a search of WAVE files. Rocca added, however,

HW 50955 DocId:32203870 Page 4 F


EGRE!

® 7

that WAVE support of Cuban groups was characterized as
"political action", and as such included operations that
the CIA could not tightly control. As a result, files of
Cuban group leaders would not be CIA proverty and the WAVE
station only received that information that filtered from
Cuban group leaders for one reason or another.
Rocca strongly urged the Committee to versist in gaining
access to WAVE files. Rocca concluded that Cuban leads should
have been pursued and added that information he and his assistant :
QEEBSESCH assimilated during the Garrison investigation, coupled (yw)
with WAVE information, would be the logical route of documentary
investigation Rocca pointed to information he found during
@ the Garrison investigation as "relevant", Rocca cited a Cuban
agent who had penetrated a training camp near New Orleans and
who was forwarding mail to a drop in Mexico. Rocca noted that
this penetration coincided with Oswald's effort to infiltrate
Bringuier's group. Rocca tentatively interpreted these two
events as "coincidentally relevent" to the possibility that

Oswald could have been a witting Cuban agent.

(4) CIA Attempts Against Castro. Rocca was unaware of

assassination plots against Castro. Rocca hypothesized that Dulles

might have briefed Warren in some way about covert action against

QEMDET
SEGRE!

HW 50955 DocId:32203870 Page 5


Cuba. Rocca also suggested that J.C. King might have known of
some sensitive operations in general but that he would have

been left out on specifics. Rocca added that ise te< com | Bmight (1) (a)

have known about sensitive operations through osmosis" because
Piniccan as desk Chief, Western Hemisphere, would send out U } (#)
traffic to stations including traffic dealing with Preheat
Rocea noted that the DDP or Director could have by-passed ( ) (¢)
Pamiceed by authoring and cabling a message themselves.
With regard to Western Hemisphere cable traffic and assass-
ination plots, Rocca» noted that in April 1975 there was an
individual (name unknown) from Western Hemisphere appointed
by Dave Phillips to work with the Inspector General, This
@ individual found the memo that discussed Desmond Fitzgerald's

having used Robert Kennedy's name in meeting with AMLASH, in

the WH files.

(5) Miscellaneous. Rocca saw nothing strange in the
FBI report on Oswald's FPCC activities being routed to SAS.
He stated that SAS would have received all reports of relevance
to Cuba.

Rocca could offer no explanation as to why the WAVE cable
discussing anti-Castro groups' public statement on the :
assassination was filed in the "sensitive Ops-Kennedy file"

and later placed in the Oswald 201 file.

7 SEGRE!

HW 50955 Docid:32203870 Page 6 2



if ;
) “ i
\
Rocca commented that the FBI and CIA differed significantly
on the treatment of the Warren Report gave the issue of
foreign conspiracy, CIA advised the issue should be left more

open than it was.

(6) Summary. Rocca’ believes that the DGI in Mexico City
should have been more carefully investigated by the Warren
Commission rn “task force’ and in the GPFLOOR phase. Rocca
was unaware of any requests on Cuban groups or CIA Cuban
operations that was levied on CIA by the Warren Commission or
on the WAVE operation by another CIA component. Rocca expressed
the opinion that the SSC persist in gaining access to relevant

] WAVE files. Rocca believes that some of the information he
compiled during the Garrison trial, coupled with relevant WAVE
information and review of information dn DIS Mexico City activities
in icy ele be a logical resource for appraising unresolved
questions about possible Cuban involvement in Kennedy's assass-

ination.

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId:32203870 Page 7 1
