{187-10008-10253| 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

["

JFK Assassina:ion System Date: 2/23/20
Identificatiin Form

Agency Info mation

AGENCY: —SSCIA :
RECORD NUMBER: —157-10008-10253 : i :
RECORD SERIES :, ° MEMORANDUM~
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document |i formation
ORIGINATOR: — SSCIA
FRO}
TO:
TITLE: RELATING TO "BOOK V" OF (CHURCH COMMITTEE
DATE: 00/00/ 1976
PAGES: 13 :
SUBIECTS :
" CASTRO
CUBA
: NOTES RE:_BOOK V-OF CHURCH COMMITTEE REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: -. PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT :
CLASSIFICATION : © Unclassified © °°”
RESTRICTIONS : ee
CURRENTSTATUS: Redact . =,
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/1994
OPENING CRITERIA : —
COMMENTS: — BOX 441

v9.1 :
NW 47129 Docla:32203761

Page i


Book V, p. 79

NW 47129 DocId:32203761 Page 2

In mid-1965 the CIA interrogaved] i
who had been ifvolved

with tha AMLASH Operation from the
beginniag. The report concluded that
the subject was deceptive during the
interrozation and withheld pertinent
informacion in one or more relevant
areas. ied in response to

questio%s dealing with AMLASH's and his
ties to Cuban intelligence.
stated chat had.no plan to over=

HH
throw cistro. stated AMLASH
had strong cofinections with Cuban

intellizence and was probably cooperating
with it in various ways. Although
AMLASH ever mentioned these connections
to his [IA case officers;

stated chat AMLASH had mentioned them

to him and almost everyone else he had
met.



Book V, p. 25 Helms cirected Karamessinis and Angleton

i) HW 47129 DocId:32203761 Page 3

John Whitten, (charged with investigating
the assassin@tion. On November 24,
Mexico City cabled the names of known
contacts of Soviet personnel in Mexico
City and AMLASH's name (Rolando Cubela)
was included on that list. Nonetheless
neither Fitzgerald, Helms, Tom K or
Angletcn advised the desk officer of
significance of this name.

fully ten A cher with the desk officer,
