457-10011-10002| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

: 157-10011-10002

Date: 08;

iy Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
SSCIA

715/92

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
INDEX CARDS

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
OPERATION MONGOOSE
CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

- CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS
Box 132, Book 3 of 5,

HW 50955 Docld:32203770 Page 1

SSCIA
[R]
[R]
06/00/75
132
tl
R]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
aia
09/29/ 93

Index Cards, June/July 1975

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

[R]



‘@ abea OLLE0eTETPIO0G GG6OS BH

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

: ; ia dtectoatre DECLA TDN ANDVOR
No DoD objection to Bt TO RELESSE OF THIS DOCUMENT

_ rguant to P.L. 102-5: ASSAN
NO OBJECTION teeeD IR Tye on Sy Oh | eB Ye
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL .

Mth 2fos(s4 | ; aye)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, WILLIAM = G@MENF ALAA MONGOOSE 7
MCCONE

TIELMS 11/3/62 SCA

MATAHAMBRE COPPER MINES

OCCURRENCE: Harvey states, “On 3 November, 1962, a frapmentary'
received, reflecting the arrests by the Cuban authorities in Panar del Rio, of the
infiltrees. It was impossible to determine, definitely, whether this report
referred to the two members of the Matahambre sabotage team."

SOURCE: TAFF: PGW

11/14/62, Memorandum of William Ilarvey, (00757)

FILE: DATE: 6/30/75


eg abea “OLLeozZe:PI90q sc6eoc BH

NO OBJECTION oa H

AS NO OBJECTION
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL Mu OBE OH 10

SE OF THIS DOCU
SaliTizep  OCOUMENT

|. No DoD objection to public disclosure & ( FB Ie.

PLL. 102-526, except for
ai aca Or)

rs NEVE:
Sec. Gilpatric

_Lt. Col. Patchel
S| i

PERSONS/ENTITIES : pares: | CATEGORIES:
Lansdale 13 Nov 62 'SONGOOSE
‘ | Cuba

OCCURRENCE:

Lansdale states, "This news came as a surprise, since.I had no information
about the Matahambre sabotage operation since 4-5 Oct and asked@Bmieeveheverg (in
Bill Harvey's absence) specifically for information about all CIA action teams inside
Cuba on 30 Oct and again on 31 Oct so that I could_give a firm report to Dept. Sect.
Gilpatric prior to negotiations with the Soviets. Hekevemfhad not mentioned the
Matahambre sabotage team when I asked about action teams inside, Cuesta, id mention

that two-action—teams—were—inside—(one-smal11-one—in-Central_Cuba,_an < png gath-about
¢tions, but

200 men in Western Cuba), that these teams were under orders not to take

ny

to collect intelligence.

SOURCE: a
“~~ Lansdale's memo for the record, 13 Nov 62

FILE:



F eheq OLLE0eZE:PII0G GGeOS AH

’ . . -GIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

. - " Ww
no QasEcTION ae aL aura
) ie : = VitS DOCUMENT
et i sh . . AS SANITIZED sl
” i ic disclosure No 1 FER
jection jo public disclo! .
Me oar to PL. ars gxgeyt for : os G CA
cin Aeleners 268/94 & cA

CATEGORIES:

|Special Group Augmented.
Operation Mongoose
Cuba

ENCE:

——" With regard to paragraph 2 of Lansdale's memorandum to SGA dated 14 Nov.
1962 Harvey states: Phe statement that Operation Mongoose had had no information on
this operation since early October was patently false. Specific references made to the
pen ultimate paragraph and Lansdale's memorandum concerning a report for the CIA which he
used as a basis for memorandun dated 31 Oct. 1962 to Oswald Kirkpatrick. This_refers to
n the evening of 30 Oct. 1962 between Lansdale and&eheewer +
a

a tetephonie-conversation fe)
lly in paragraph 2-en_pages_7. and 8 of my reference memoranc.

which is referred specifica

L have discussed this matter in detail with Cheever and clearly recollects that—his.

conversation with Lansdale on that date took place as reflected in my reference memorandum.
ion of previous operations except a brief

During this conversation there Wasa discussion
discussion of the COBRA and§ARWORED Fteams and Lansdale did not ask, according to ence,
recollection, any specific questions concerning assets inside or prior operations Ww
SOURCE: WOU. ogically have le o the CU: ney SPAPF:
2" of the Matahambre operation."
962 { Phul Wallach
196 (ol151) ae DATE:
F July 1, 1975

syd ek

Mepgnandum dated Nov. 21,
ik



G ahead OLLEOSZE:PIO0G GEOG AH

; nur ; 10 OR
HO one sono ea, bjection to public disclosure Seas noe My
RATIONAL SECURITY CC No B90 objen Lr 102.898,exceptfor RELEASE OF THC DOCUMENT
alo 4 pursuant oon CHA) A ap AS SANITIZED ~
“ ODM Y99. (ns
(ee) wy
" PERSONS/ENTITIES ; — DATES: CATEGORIES: Lol

i
1h Nov 62 | MONGOOSE

MIATA HAIR E

Lansdale CGilpatric~ >
Bundy McCone

Johnson Taylord
RFk Parrot
OCCURRENCE:
oO Lansdale states, "On October 30-31 for an 'Eyes Only' back-
ground memorandum requested by Ros¢gwell Gilpatric, information was requested
from CIA on the current status of all operations. CIA reported all militant
operations have been ordered held at a stop, although the volatile Cubans
were frustrated and not under complete control. The Matahambre operation
was not mentioned by the CIA in reporting in operational teams inside Cuba,

although I askéd for specifics on militant—team:
CIA reported as being inside Cuba were described as in place only collecting
intelligence, not actions, (sabotage,etc.)*

A hand-written note next to the above statement by Lansdale reads,"Harvy/
jsay he did not ask."

*JNB:

“STAFF: . =
PGW 6/30
DATE:

SOURCE: 14 Nov 62 special memo for the Special Group’
Augmented, prepared by Brig. Gen. Lansdale (00761)

FILE:


9 BBea OLLE0SsE:PII0G SGe0s AH

NO OBJECTION. go. sapae® CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
ECURITY COUNCIL ; DECLASSIFIGETIGN AND/OR
NATIONAL Sooo ia RELEASE OF THIS COCUMENT

in 4/29 ¢ AS SANITIZED :
: cacti lic disciosU i FEB
No DoD objet? 02526 exception) 4
mommencoes seen Ue
CARD #1 COB
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
Special Grou Augmented) ; i .
MONGOOSE; (Lansdale} Taylor; Johnsdn ' Special Group Augmented;
Gilpatrick; McCone, R.Kennedy, MONGOOSE
Limnetzer Way Lk Or 4/9/63 ane ; .
OCCURRENCE: Memo from the Special Group CAugmente from Lansdale re:

ion MONGOOSE progress, dated 31 May 1962. CIA attempting to recruit
— an official in an airlines office in Havana.
The CIA team in Pinar del Rio province was successfully resupplied by maritime

means on 24 May. "Fracturing the regime has been given priority attention by
CIA. A senior case officer has been assigned full time to the specific action,

ae

and has preferential _use-of_CIh-assets~ Of_twenty-four fection
tarsets. CIA has found several who seem vulnerable Pa
|." CIA awaits approval for "Voice of Free Cuba™ which
Tt can now put into operation immediately: CIA is prepared to disseminate leaf-
lets on Castro's failure to Cuban population via balloons; CIA requests group

approval for defense support in training of twenty-man teams for possible use in
beefing up resistance groups ip, Cuba; and asked the group for approval é

cr

SOURCE : Proceadu with fe Couns Teel Care START y
[Osan for Gpeecad Group (Os Lau selate we Operatin. DATE: Fi

FILE: Aromgroe propert, 31 Moy, 1462 (0 235- 37)


2 abeq” Oece0zze:pIocad so60s AH

- NO OBJECTION  GINHAS NO OBJECTION TO
IFIGRTION AND/OR
"NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL SRS aa
ASSANTIZED Ce a

(i) >)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Cuba

| MONGOOSE «~~

Apr 12, 1963

(“BRUGEWGHEE

OCCURRENCE: Desmond Fitagerald = states ''The decision of the U.S. government
‘to stop stop > hit and run raids by the Cuban exile groups while the variety of
effects depending upor where one is viewing the decision. (Looks at Castro's
viewpoint, and to Castro elements within Cuba, the Cuban exiles, etc.)

“SOURCE: Memo from Fitzgerald to the DCI, Apr 12, 1963 | STAF
(02619) Wallach

i a.

PILE: DATE July 2, 1975


8 ahed OLLE0tTE PIIO0G ccEeOos AH

“<eTiON

HO O88 ECTIOF ;
ny ceeunaTy COUNCIL outa
NATIONAL secuniry CO | nn cso,
| | PET ERSE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZE cis Yo.

- om CO)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

(MRTERETE ERY _esmonn
FITZGERALD) CMCOONE) HEIMS

DATES: | CATEGORIES:
H

Cuba
MONGOOS!

April 12, 1963}

OCCURRENCE : Fitzgerald states ''The activist Cuban exiles will probably not be
deterred by the order (to stop hit and run raids). They may even profit by
the decree. It will now be a greater honor to engage in operations against
Fidel. The double jeopardy arising from the threat of detention by U.S. agents
and the chance for martyrdom at the hands of Fidel will be an even greater

challlenge. Actually the supply of recruits for such hit and run raids may
run shallow but not dry." .

RERAY AP Oy ry TN PN Fae

SOURCE:
(02620)
FILE:

STAFF:

.Wallach
DATE july 2, 1975

Memo from Fitzgerald to the DCI, Apr. 12 1963


6 ebea . OLLEOSZE:PIO0G Scs6os AH

: JECTION TO,
CIAHAS NO OP ty ANDIOP
NO ORIECTION . DECLIS py Tw DOCUMENT
" SYATIONAL SECUCITY COU | SMITED A

ci) A)

DATES:

CATEGORIES:

Cuba
MONGOOSE,/

Apr 12, 1963

Fitzgerald states it is too soon actually to state definitely '
what the effect of this policy (i.e. stopping raids) will have on our recruit-
ment program. The Agency's problem is not the number of recruits, but their
‘ quality. The unemployed, poorly educated, hungry are always with us. Some of
the more discerning Cuban types will avoid recruitment as they are convinced

that a priciple reason for the U7S.-action is to control who fights Castro in
order to. insure who will succeed him.

tr i Loa
WoW! Rasta Nie! ee wa witch bot

« S——SOURCE: Meno from Fitzgerald to the DCI, Apr. 12, 1963 | STAPF:
, - “(02621) 0 i Wallach

PILE: | DATE July 2, 1975


OT ahead OLLEOsTTETPIOOG GGeOG AH

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO
eT ey
rity
. NATIONAL SECUA: RELEASE OFT

: Os, ( ~ FER, M4

PERSONS/ENTITIES: © DATES: CATEGORIES: '

‘Apr 12, 1963; Cuba
MONGOOS

OCCURRENCE:

of U.S. agents will be the improvement and control and better clandestine
security practices on the part of the exiles. But as the U.S. restricts and
apprehends these men, confiscating goods and funds, the loci power will have

a tendency to move back to its traditional center: the exile--monied interests
such as the bosches, prlos and Batistas.

Fitzgerald states Another advantage arising from the scrutiny

SOURCE: a, aa
Memo from Fitzgerald to the DCI, Apr. 12, 1963 (02620) Wallach
July 2, 1975

FILE: DATE:


TE a6eq OLLEOZZE:PIIOG CGEOS AH

10
; guEctioll (OR
7 : ; AHA TON NENT
ca NO onsconon aay A DeCLSeof HO DONE i
os NATIONAL SECUFTTY ni . BESANT og, 1
: ; Ath a\a> ; :

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

4

CATEGORIES:

JOHNSON i 2 i
KILPATRICK MONGOOSE -
MCCONE, Sept.16,1963 SPECIAL GROUP

OCCURRENCE:

On September 16, 1963 a memorandum reported that "all members of the special group
have approved project (having to do with certain{ jactivties in the
area of Cuba.)"

SOURCE: STAFF:
Memorandum dated 16 September 1963 for members of
the Special Group from Mr. Parrott Kelley
FILE: : DATE:

KIN tI


ZT abed OLLE0ZZE2PII0d GG60G AH

po OBsZoTION

he CuaiTy COUNCIL, :
na SE -artion to pubic disclosure CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
nn ationtticdecnye SNS CORTON
Be atelehor open) AS sanimizey eT
cia , i
: 2156/9 ¥ ; Ko i Fee 44.
CO)
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIFS:
PRESIDENT KENNEDY BUNDY
ROBERT KENNEDY Nov. 12, 1963 MONGOOSE”
HELMS PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL
RUSK
MCNAMARA
OCCURRENCE:

On NOvember 12, 1963 a meeting on "Cuban Operations" was held with "Higher Authority"
(President Kennedy). Present were Mr. RUSK, Mr. MCNAMARA, Mr. ROBERT KENNEDY ,

Mr. BUNDY, Mr. MCCONE, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr, KILPAGRICK, Mr. VaNCE, Mr.HELMS, Mr.
FITZGERALD ,@UReae ais:

EVIE Mrr._STEAKLEY.._Mr._MCCONE-gave-a_brief summary—of—recent
developments” inside Ciba and Mr. Fitzgerald reported on Cuban operations under six
main headings. (Mr. FITZGERALD's discussions of these headings is contained in
separate cards.) .

SOURCE: ° “STAFF:

Memorandum for the record dated Nov... 12, 1963 DATE: Kelley
FILE: “Cuban Operations" — 6/28/15


£1. abba OLLE0ccePIO0d Goe0c AH

6 HO OSM CounctL oo
 NNATIOREL vO oo SeeLagtO OBsECrION 70
lol SSIFICATION ARDVOR
coon RELEASE OF TH =
AS Sanirizey DOCUMENT
( BES 74.
C\) Ca)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: : DATES: | CATEGORIES: :
MCCONE TIOOVER H
HELMS a : Speci Up
BUNDY \"" 2, 1964 goose
R. KENNEDY

OCCURRENCE: flelms states that agency officers have reported plans of Cuban
exiles to assassinate selected Cuban government leaders. Agency officers told Cubans
that U.S. would not condone the planned actions. Plans included: Cuban exile approach
to March 2, 1964 by businessman to discuss a plan which was “still in the embryonic state
to assassinate Fidel Castro." Businessman has underworld connections with Cosa Nostra.
Lat-ter_group_has_offered_to_assassinate Castro for $150,000. Proposes to use 5 men.

March 3, 1964 meeting in which| ByronWesné: FOmy Says he met an unidentified group which
would _be willing to assassinate. selected Cuban officials for cash. Specifically the
(seaireron group is interested in assassinating Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Ernesto Che
Guevera.” "@amézon) knows that he can indicted for conspiracy # Ys Ay FF con ey Ab
era.” egies FAN) GF
Ha

Sy Fe
aan 7

1/3/75

SOURCE? Memorandum for DCI McCone from Richard Helms re STAFF:
plans of Cuban exiles to assassinate selected Cuban government diGenova
Leaqens, June 10, 1964 (03105~-031110) DATE:


FT ahea OLLEOSZE:PIIO0G GSce6os AH

“MECONE FITZGERALD

* JMWAVE VANCE

» CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

~ReLEASe OFTHIS DOCUMENT
ae ron AS SANITIZED ° ms
vr COUNCIL | x | FE

Ci) CA)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

8/19/64

HUGHES
BUNDY YPAPIGH “BOSCH:
JESSUP RFK
STEAKLEY  JMWAVE

OCCURRENCE: according to the minutes of the 303 Conmittce on 7730/64; my as agreed
that MR. FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)'" The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

ated to-the-Spec.Asst._to-the-Pres,—for-Nat1,—Security—Affrs.—ASst._Sect._for_Inter=
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of astro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles fhe Mafia app-

hproached
Tibute. This was Tejected, |

the record indicates. inwolvement Ww

SOURCE Yast record of incident found by 1G Rept. is memo from Metall” to Bundy, s/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip tee qeppy ious ly nothing
Pee of the plot."(117)

IG REPORT 1967 Baron, 7/1/75


GT aheaq OLeeozze:PIoO0d co6os BH

, 0
HA NO OBJECTION T
: CO PASSIFICAT {ON A ENT
| : RELEASE ors pot Wy
. SeTIOR a
-NO rae OUNGIL rea se

yy

NATIONAL SECU?

a -_ —_ | Bay CH)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE — FITZGERALD
BUNDY —_OPAPIGH
JESSUP RFK
STEAKLEY JMWAVE

F BAT les EIN
JMWAVE VANCE i » ai 1

OCCURRENCE + According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64,"It was agreed
that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia overtones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed
to handle as a matter of law enforcement." (116)"' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director, (116) which was dissemin-

SGA

DATES: | ; CATEGORIFS:
|
i MONGOOSE #7

ated.to the Spec. Asst. to the Pres. for Natl. Security Affrs.; ASst. Sect. for Inter-
American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI. The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal
for the assassination of Castro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles, The Mafia app-
eared to be’ anvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was $150, 000. SYOSE*MART PINS

/ABOSCIREPRSEO aa 1izRuml would contribute $50,000. @80SEKY approached the Chief of

: gested the U.S, goverment also contribute. This was rejected,

u involvement_w i i i i :

Station;

tl me las_to_repo: at C
SOURCE Yast record o£ incident found by IG Rept. is memo from|Mc@dte" to Bundy, 8/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip ts."Obviously nothing
Came of the plot."(117} DATE:

PILE: IG REPORT 1967

Raran 7/1/76


oT abed OLLE0%cE:PIO0G CGeOc AH

NO OBJECTION
NATIONAL S ECURITY COUNCIL

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE FITZGERALD HUGHES
BUNDY APAPIGH (eOScieROSEey
JESSUP EK a
STEAKLEY JMWAVE
JMWAVE VANCE

OCCURRENCE: According to the minutes of the 303 Committee on 7/30/64,"It was agreed

NO OBJECTION TO

CIA 0
SSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF quis DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED
Co) CH)

| CATEGORIES:
i
,
t
,

that MR, FITZGERALD would contact SAM PAPICHof the FBI in regard to the earlier report
of an alleged plot with Mafia ovértones to assassinate Castro and which the AG agreed

to handle as a matter of law enforcement.'' (116)'' The reference is clearly to a 6/10/64
memorandum information report from the DDP to the Director,’ (116) which was dissemin-

EB V4

ated-to-the-Spec.~Asst.—_to-the Pres._for-Nati, Security Affrs.;_ASst.—Sect.—for_Inter-

American Affairs,Dept. of State; Dir. of Intell. and Research, State Dept.; Director,

- DIA; The AG; the Director, FBI; DDCI and the DCI.

The 6/10/74 report"related a proposal

for the assassination of gastro that was made to prominent Cuban exiles. The Mafia app-

came aot the plot."(117)
RILE: IG REPORT 1967

eared to be anvolved in the scheme." The asking frice was $150,000.-G¥9@SE*MARIO .PEP IN}
‘ x ai Rumgwould contribute $50,000.

> d-suggested the U.S. govermment als contribute, This was rejected. |
‘ wd_indicatés#CIA's_only involvement_was_to_repo

SOURCE ct record of incident found by IG Rept. is memo from Metalla” to Bundy, 3/19/64,
reporting:the results of FBI intvws with the alleged particip tse qgbviously nothing

CH approached the Chief of

Avis
Baron, 7/1/75



£T abed OLLEOTZEPIOOG GGEOS AH

a ayeorion yn WO? ae
~ NATIONAL SECURTY count At ps”

fiat 42284 pe

1 wvusy ay ary

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES:
wey Je >|
Nov. ‘2, 1962, |Special Group Augmented

Operation Mongoose ——~*
Cuba

CATEGORIES:
KIRKPATRICK a
ois Harvey __ DDP

Mr. Halpem

DCI
OCCURRENCE:

With regard to paragraph 2 of Lansdale's memorandum to SGA dated 14 Nov.
1962 Harvey states: "The statement that Operation Mongoose had had no information on
this operation since early October was patently false. Specific references made to the
pen ultimate paragraph and Lansdale's memorandum concerning a report for the CIA which he
used as a basis for memorandim dated 31 Oct. 1962 to Oswald Kirkpatrick. This_ref

a_ telephonic. conversation on the evening of 30 Oct. 1962 between Lansdale and (Ghéé

“SOURCE; would

eperandum dated Nov. 21, 1962 ous

which is referred specifically in paragraph Dages 7—and- 8 of -my— reference-memorandi.
I have discussed this matter in detail rah REET ona clearly recollects that his
conversation with Lansdale on that date took place as ref. lected in my reference memorandum.
ering this conversation there_was no discussion of previous oreo except a brief

STAPF

Ppul Wallach

ap uite sd DATE:
ne — July 1, 1975

of the Matahanbre operation.’

