{157-10005-10228 | [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

' Date:10/01/93
: Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10228

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R2146

: DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :
TRANSCRIPT/REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS/AND EXHIBITS AS LISTED

DATE : 01/10/76
PAGES : 96

SUBJECTS :
TESTIMONY OF E. HOWARD HUNT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : bi
BOX 248-10

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32202418 Page 1


e SSCIEC. ; 24 -19
State of Florida ; a
County of Okaloosa )

‘ AFFIDAVIT

E. HOWARD HUNT, JR., being duly sworn, deposes and
says:
1. On January 10, 1976, I was examined by Frederick D.
Baron, a counsel for the Sénate Select Committee to Study
Governmental Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities.
On January 11, 1976, I was examined by both Mr. Baron and Howard
Liebengood, another counsel for the Senate Select Committee. At
both of these examinations I was accompanied by my counsel, Randall C.

@ Coleman, and advised of my Constitutional rights.

2, I have read the transcripts of both of the above-
mentioned examinations, and I hereby affirm that my testimony

therein is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

E. Howard Hunt, Jr.

Sworn to before me this _ Sixth
day of February, 1976.
tan) C. % ads +

Notary Public

My Com-r onion Expires Jan 4, 1977

NW 50955 DocId:32202418 Page 2


Unauthorized Disclosure Subject

Vol. 1 oF 3 to Criminal Sanctions
omen

The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

i _ 2.5
Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

CIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO:
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANIT.

dea-ay

IG
Om

Saturday, January 10, 1976
Washingwoa, D.C

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREBT, 8. EB. os
4@ WASHINGTON, D. C. 20008"

(208) 644-6000

HW 50955 DocId:32202418 Page 3



TOP SECRET 9

might have directed me to this. particular unit.

3
3
3
C®: >
& : | I was told that somewhere within the overall political
q
: - || and psychological staff there was located a man with a small
é a
2 | office. This man's name was Pash, Colonel Boris Pash, and
‘ i
i :
5 | my understanding was that Colonel Pash had been doing business,
iH i‘ : ‘
6 let us say, with the Agency in West Germany for quite a while.
H
9 i I sought out Colonel Pash, I was directed to his office
8 and found sitting with him another Agency officer named ’
9 I'm not sure whether it isd

|

lo Mr. Baron. It's a Greek name. { is his correct

1, | first name, but he goes by

Mr. Hunt. Very good. But in any case, he was known

3

é 12

‘ :

C6 ¢ 13 throughout my career as, And I waa at that

H — a
14 point on, let's say, a search mission to determine whether the
15 alleged capability of Colonel Pash in'wet affairs, which is
16 how it was referred to, that is liquidations, would have any
1 relevance to our particular problem of the Albanian dis-

18 appointments.

19 Mr. Baron. By liquidations, you mean assassinations?
3 20 Mr. Hunt. Aasassinations. Assassinations, kidgappings,
H 2) || removals, let's say.
22 This had been alleged to me. So I spoke to Colonel Pash
i 23 | in Mr. “| presence. I explained the problem to him,
g @: 24 although at that juncture I'm quite sure that we had not
: 25 identified the Albanian suspect. So we were talking hypethetically

HW 50955 Docla:32202418 Page 4 TOP SECRET


gsh 11

8
8
3
5
g
&

WARD & PAUL

S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

NW 50955

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

i
|

TOP SECRET nu

earlier, that when I first inquired around for the location of

Colonel Pash and his assistant, the reaction I encountered

| was a rather jesting one, and the impression I gained was

| here were a couple of men who were drawing salaries and doing

very little.
And so when Colonel Pash seemed reluctant to become
involved in responding affirmatively to my questions, my

inference was that Colonel Pash and could well not

have such a capability but for purposes of employment and
status, this was the job they had. But they didn't want
anyone to call upon them to activate their particular
abilities.

Now that was my impression, and I was a little disgusted

by it. I think I talked to the Chief of the PP staff later,

|
|
|
|
who was of course well aware of the Albanian problem and I |
said I didn't get any satisfaction from Pash, but it doesn't |
really make any difference because we don't have the name |
of the suspected individual. |
Mr. Baron. Just to stop here for a second and clear up |
!
some of these details, were you under the impression that what
you called wet affairs, assassinations, kidnappings, or other
removals from the scene of troublesome individuals was the

|
primary function of this unit that Pash and were |
|
running?

|

Mr. Hunt. Yes. In fact the only. -As far as I knew, they

RAE Cac TOP SECRET |


gsh

Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

3
8
&
9g
6
é
8
&
3
W
a

NW 50955

12

18
19
20
21 |
22
23
24

25

Docld: 34)

TOP SECRET W

had no other function. If they had another function, I was
never made aware of what it was.

Do you know anything about Colonel Pash's background?

Mr. Baron. I know a bit, but if you think that there are
relevant details to put on the background, go ahead.

Mr. Hunt. Well, I had not thought of Colonel Pash for

| years until I began reading a book called "Lawrence and Oppen-

heimer," and I saw quite a few references to Colonel Pash. I
had known previously that he had been associated during the
war with the Manhattan Project and that he had a security
background, And as I believe I touched on briefly before, it
was my impression that Pash had been active a couple of years
at least before I knew him in West Germany with the sort of
thing that we had been discussing so far today.

Mr. Baron. What kinds of stories had you heard about
Pash's previous activities?

Mr. Hunt. Kidnappings mostly.

Mr. Baron. And where were those?

Mr. Hunt. West Germany and West Berlin.

Mr. Baron. Do you know the names of any of the victims
of the kidnapping or any of the people involved other than
Pash and speECEE

Mr. Hunt. I do not.

Mr. Baron. And are you aware from whatever source of

any assassination planning or attempts that Pash was involved

pozs1s8 Page 6 TQP SECRET



gsh 13

Phune (Area 202) 544-6000
=

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
22

23

24

25

NW 50955 DocIa:32#02418 Page 7 : TOP GECRET

TOP SECRET 13

Mr. Hunt. I am not.

Mr. Baron. Does your answer include not only the period
of time before you talked with Colonel Pash but after you
talked with Colonel Pash?

Mr. Hunt. Yes, sir.

I might add that I was rather briefly at CIA headquarters
at that time and within a very short period of time after I
had had my interview with Colonel Pash, I was transferred to the
Guatemala project, the overthrow of Guatemala.

Mr. Baron. Is that the reason why you did not follow up
on the problem with this particular suspected double agent
after not receiving satisfaction from Colonel Pash?

Mr, Hunt, That cartainly could have been one reason.

On the other hand, I was chief of, I can see I'm really going

to have to get into a lot more here. This is going to be |

dry and dull stuff for you. i

Bedking Zog |

i

who was very upset about the disappearance and loss of all

{
of his partisans in the operationa that the Agency was conducting.

{ -- the the counter- i

| intelligence or espionage aspect, which is not my function, but

i



gsh 14
8
8
3
“ 3 l
@ :
3 2

WARD & PAUL

20003

410 First Street, $.E., Washington, 0.C

NW 50955

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

pocta:34p02418 Page 6 TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET -

parachuted to their

introduction to the whole

scene in West Germany, where the balance of his retainers were

Well, not being held, but where they

were being housed and trained for Albanian operations.

Mr. Baron. Can you explain the term "retainer"?

Mr. Hunt. Well, I understood that when he finally got
out of Albania, that he brought with him what I can best
describe as retainers. That is bodyguards, members of his
personal staff, probably some relatives. I think he had
four or five sisters with him. But the able-bodied portion

of those loyalists who came out with him we had largely taken

over

7

‘eee And then he never saw them again. He naturally

became apprehensive. £
So that was my interest in what was happening to the '

Albanians that we parachuted [( eceemeceermes | I had no

functional counter-espionage interest in the affair. This

would have been handled and this was handled by the Chief

of Counter-espionage for the Division.

Mr, Baron, Who would that have been at the time?

Mr. Hunt. I can't remember at this point.



Q
a
a

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

AW 50955

15

10

ll

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET tf

Mr. Baron. But that would be the person primarily
responsible for taking care of this double agent problem?
Mr. Hunt. That's correct.

Mr. Baron. Are you aware of what happened with that

|| suspected double agent?

i Mr. Hunt. I have no idea because, as I may have indicated

previously off the record, it became apparent some years later
that the unfortunate fate of our Albanian agents was linked
far more closely to the revelations of Kim Philby, the

Soviet agent who was in direct liaison with us in Washington
and in Great Britain, rather than any penetration, although
the possibility of a penetration was of course always there.
But I don't think that anybody was ever focused.

Again, I left for Latin American affairs, I left the

|| Division about that time and I really never heard about it

again. the Albanian chief, departed for

Southeast Asia, and the whole sort of complex of knowledgeable
people was broken up through normal transfers and special
activities like the Guatemala project.

Mr. Baron. Was{ —___ |knowledeable about your
approach to Colonel Pash?

Mr. Hunt. Very likely he was, yes. I don't think I
would have discussed anything with Colonel Pash about the

matter without talking to about it.

Mr. Baron. Who else would have known that you approached

Docla: 32

pozdis Page 9 TOP SECRET


gsh 16

Area 202) $44-6000

WARD & PAUL

@

420 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

eee

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

22

23

24

25

DocId:32p02418 Page 10

|
i
i
|

TOP SECRET 16

Colonel Pash with the idea in mind of seeing if an assassination
or a kidnapping couldn't be arranged?

Mr. Hunt. The then Chief of Foreign Intelligence and
Counter-Intelligence for the Division. And I think now that that

I think he wore both

was §

hats. He had both foreign intelligence responsibility and

| the counter-intelligence responsibility. And I might have told:

the division chief about it, although it was not, it had not
‘achieved such stature at that point that I would have

necessarily talked to the Division Chief, who I believe at

that time was John Richardson of later Vietnam fame.
It's also possible that the Division Chief in that era

was John Baker, now deceased, who left that division to

become Chief of the PP staff, and that would have been a
normal follow through for me if I had discussed it with John
Baker, my direct Chief, and then to have discussed it with i
him when he was my staff chief in the overall political and |
psychological staff. |
Mr. Baron. Anyone else who would have known about your
approach te Colonel Pash or about --
Mr, Hunt. Or his function.
Mr. Baron. Yes, that Colonel Pash was considered to have |
assassinations as one of his functions.
Mr. Hunt. We had a Colonel Buffington who at that time

was a member of the PP staff, the overall PP staff, and I think

TOP SECRET


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
w

10

il

12

13

WARO & PAUL

14
15
16
1?
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

TOP SECRET

léa

that he would hav e been knowledgeable about it.

Mr. Baron. Was that Milton Buffington?

Mr. Hunt. Yes. I think he later went on and had a career
in the Office of Security. Milton Buffington, ves.

Mr. Baron. Anyone else?

Mr. Hunt. Yes, I have the names of three men who unfor-
tunately are dead. I could give those names, though. Mr. C.

Tracy Barnes, Mr. John Baker,|who I've already mentioned, and
7 fh. men were all at one time or another
chiefs of the Agency's PP staff.

Another man now living to the best of my knowledge who

might well have had knowledge of Pash's function was the

then-chief of the Economic Warfare staff of the PP staff and his

HW 50955 DocId:32402418 Page 11 TQP SECR ET



gsh 17

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
w

WARD & PAUL
Be
0

ae

18

19

20

al

22

reet, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

TOP SECRET a

name was Gates Lloyd. He later became the Deputy Director for

| Support of the Agency.

There's a man nme id who was in the

Psychological Warfare Branch of the PP staff. I believe at

| that time there was an International Organizations Branch

which later became the International Organizations Division,
then headed by Cord Myer, Jr., and his Deputy at that time was
Tom Braden, the now-columnist whose wife has just ascended to
the Executive Office Building. There were members of the
Labor Branch, and I'm trying to think of that branch of office
that was down the hall.

There was a labor branch. The people in there might know.
There was a lady lawyer named Carol somebody who was very
knowledgeable about what was going on in that area.

Mr. Baron. Knowledeable about Pash's activities?

Mr. Hunt. Well, in the sense that when you have an
adjoining office, you usually pretty much know what the other
fellow is doing. Just in that sense, because her function
in the labor’ branch had nothing to do with Pash, to my
knowledge.

What I'm trying to do here is to give you sort of a
congeries of people alive and dead who would have had contact
knowledge, at the very least, of what Pash's function was.

Mr. Baron. Were each of these units referred to as

PB with a number following it?

HW 50955 pocta: 32402418 Page 12 TQP SECRET


gsh 19 TOP SECRET 7

1 Operations and OPC, the staff structure emerged as follows:
2 Reporting to the Deputy Director for Plans, i.e. Frank

3 || Wisner, whose Chief of Operations then was Richard Helms, this

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

4 is the Clandestine Services Organization. There was .our
5 | support staff, the PP staff, the Poreign Intelligence staff,

the Counter-Intelligence, Counter-Espionage staff, and of

a

7 | course the famous staff "D",

8 Also reporting to the Deputy Director for Plans were all

g | of the geographical divisions, such as Western Europe, Southeast
10 Europe, Asia, Near East, and so forth.

11 Mr. Baron. Now at this point Frank Wisner was DDP,

1g || Richard Helms was his deputy.

Mr. Hunt. Richard Helms was his Chief of Operations.

WARD & PAUL

ie ! Mr. Baron, All right. The Chief of the PP staff was --

is | Mr. Hunt. Either Tracy Barnes or John Baker or

16 | a ;

Mr. Baron. And you were located on the South European --

a4

138 i Mr. Hunt. Southern Europe Division.
g 19 Mr. Baron. Who headed that division at that point?
8 20 Mr. Hunt. Either John Baker or John Richardson.
: 21 So as you see, I had a line responsibility to the Chief
‘ 22 of the Southeast Europe Division, as indicated in Exhibit 3.
i 23 At the same time I had a functional responsibility to the

@ : 24 Chief of the PP staff, who was Mr. Barnes or Mr. Baker or

3

25 a Biust as the Chief of PI for the Southeast Europe

NW 50955 Docta:323p2418 Page 13 TOP SECRET



gsh 21

Prone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 Fust Street, 5.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

R24

25

21

Mr. Hunt. Does this satisfy your request?

Mr. Baron. It does, indeed.

TOP SECRET

Of all of the individuals that you have just mentioned,

which ones do you know to your own certainty were clearly

knowledgeable of Boris Pash's activities?

Mr. Hunt. ona be the first one, and

after that I can only speculate. I would have to assume that

| knowledge through me, I'm not sure. I have made a list of
other people whom I have not mentioned who conceivably, by
virtue of personal contact or functional tesponsibility, might
well have been aware of Pash's true functional responsibility

| within the Agency.

Mr. Baron. Before I ask you to tick off that list, let's

|Make it clear that all of the names, in addition to cal

are names that you have given as people who are

likely to have been knowledgeable of Pash's activities because
of their place in the organization structure at that time.

Mr. Hunt. That's correct, or as I have indicated in some
cases, as with the PP labor branch by virtue of physical
proximity to that office.

Mr. Baron. Okay. Why don't you now just run very briefly
through the names of other people who yau think could conceivabl
have been knowledgeable of Pash's function?

Mr. Hunt. In some cases I'm going to have to give you thei

DocId:32702418 Page 14 TOP GECRET

q hcquired knowledge of it, but perhaps he acquired :

fepeseecessstend » Essesenenssterersl


iN)
i

gsh

(Area 202) 544-6000
=

TOP SECRET 7 |

title designation rather than the name of the individual because
so much time has passed, I have simply forgotten who it was

in that particular era.

‘ : 4 ii { who at that time was a member of the German

oo

10 |

12

13 |

WARD & PAUL

14 |

19 |
20
21 |

22

branch of the Western Europe Division, he has since retired

and is running his ‘family' | Business in New York. Certainly

the then Chief of Western Europe Division, of which Germany
was a functional part and the Chief of Operations of Western
Europe should know.
I would think that Jim Angleton, who would have had
direct knowledge and always was the Chief of the CI/CE staff.

The Chief of base in| H if in fact Pash conducted any

activities in that area, certainly the Chief of base in |
'

if : rt if
{ Jwould have been iitceea heats oataa it.
Also, the Chief of base ati jwhich was where we |

peratian going on. I don't know whether

x whether he was simply running the

tunnel, but Harvy might well have some knowledge of Pash.
I would certainly assume that when we're talking about i
liquidations and that sort of thing that the Agency's overall

Office of Security somewhere within it must have been involved,

such German Division personnel as might be available today, |

West German, and I would also suggest that General Cushman migh

be knowledgeable for this reason.

HW 50955 DocId:32|

Sssaseiiasaastasusunvosial’- ates

f02418 Page 15 TOP SECRET


gsh

y

;

a
eT cl

WARD & PAUL

410 Furst Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

RW 50955

23

12

13

14

15

17

18

19

20

eal

22

23

24

25

DoclIa: 32!

TOP SECRET |

It was about that time that General Cushman was still
assigned to the CIA. I could be wrong about that but I seem
to have a memory of Cushman being around in those days. He
| was then a Colonel. I had associated with him. In fact, we
| had shared an office at one time, but that was several years
earlier. I would place it about early 1949. But I'm quite
ij, sure that Cushman was around in that period of time and
involved with the PP staff, though what his function was I
don't know.

Now there are alive two close friends of mine who were

then members of the PP staff, { fhna’

These are men who in effect established the PP staff for

Frank Wisner and then left to go on to other things. They
are both well known writers.

Mr. Baron, Let me just return to one name that you
mentioned and that is William Harvey.

Did you -- first, generally, what was the nature of your
operational relationships to William Harvey after this period?

Did you have any?

Mr. Hunt. I never had any, no. In fact, I've only seen

him once in my life, to the best of my recollection.

Mr. Baron. As you may know, William Harvey was tasked
in 1961 with setting up an executive action gapability at
the CIA, tasked originally by Richard Bissell to carry out

assassinations if required.

boosie Page 16 TOP SECRET


gsh 33

TOP SECRET 33

because we're going to slop over into this other matter that
Mr. Liebengood wants to talk about tomorrow.

Mr. Baron. Well, why don't we hold off then, except

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
ray

| enat for this one question, which is are you aware of any

5 | involvement that Dr. Gunn had in assassination planning?

ee Mr. Hunt. No, I'm not because I'm just not familiar
with assassination planning. And specifically, for that

g | reason, I'm not aware of any involvement that Dr. Gunn might
g | have had.

10 Mr. Baron. Let's return now to the point of departure,

11 | which was your conversation with Colonel Pash and the events

12 that led up to it.

13 Who were your supervisors that gave you the impression

WARD & PAUL

14 | that Colonel Pash was prepared to carry out assassinations?

i Mr. Hunt. I wish I could give you a distinct name. I

15
16 think I covered that in an impressionistic way by saying that
17 || Tracy Barnes and John Baker, who were at different times
| :
18 sequentially chiefs of the PP staff, it seems to me that Barnes
3 19 was probably the one who indicated that Pash had such a
6
a capability. ;
g 20 : Hl
. a I know that I did not get it from Band I'm :
5 H
=
a 22 quite sure that my information did not come from within the
4
23 Southeast Europe Division. It must have come accordingly
® 24 from the Political and Psychological staff, the contacts there, :
S |
25 and I would have to say Tracy Barnes or John Baker are the i
|
i
i

HW 50955. DoeId:34202418 Page 17 TOB SECRET


gsh 34 TOP SECRET 34

8
3
3 ‘
@ 5 1 || most likely.
S$
3 2 Mr. Baron. And neither of those two men are alive today?
¢
fF 3 | Mr, Hunt. That's right.
'
it
‘ 4 \ Mr. Baron. Did whoever gave you the information about
I
5 1 Boris Pash indicate to you that there were any other units
i
4
6 i in the CIA that could take care of such problems by means of
i
7 | assassination?
8 | Mr. Hunt. No. My distinct impression and recollection is

9 the function, if indeed it existed, and I believed it then
1o || to have existed as I do today, was centralized or focused in

11 || Colonel Pash and _ |

@ i 12 Mr. Baron. Now what would have been the formal title
¢ 13 || of the unit. that Colonel Pash and a a were running?
3
14 Mr. Hunt. If it had one, I never knew it.
15 Mr. Baron. Can you add any other detail to the record

16 |} on your talk with Colonel Pash and his reaction to your

17 || request that he consider on a general level the planning of

1g || an assassination of a suspected double agent?

19 Mr. Hunt. Well, as I recall it, my conversation with him
20 || Was a relatively brief one. I stepped in the door, met him,
21 || saw —«!--—) who I knew briefly, or at least knew him

22 || by sight, and I sat down and I said, we have this problem in

23 || the Albanian branch. We may need somebody liquidated in

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, 0.C. 20003

e4 || Western Germany. Can you handle it if that day comes, or if

25 | it comes to that?

NW 50955 DocId:37202418 Page 18 TOD GECBDET


gsh 35 ||

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 Furst Street, S-€., Washington, D.C. 20003,

AW 50955

10

ll

12

13

14

15

16

ate

18

19

20

21

22

23

a4

25

TOP SECRET 35

And he seemed a little startled, I have already indicated

that. What I'm trying to do now is to refine my thoughts more

than I did previously when we were taking sort of a wide

| Swipe at the canvas.

Colonel Pash indicated or said to me that it was a matter
that would have to be approved by higher authority and as
a relatively low ranking officer in those days, I thought he
was probably referring to Frank Wisner. And indeed, he may
have. It never got pushed up to Frank Wisner's level because
there no direct approach or a request for such approval
was ever made.

I left with the impression that Colonel Pash was glad
that he wasn't going to have any business for me or that he
had successfully deflected whatever approach I might be making
to him because it would give him and{~S=«i#BAaN
opportunity to drink more coffee and to draw their salaries
from the Agency while affecting to do a job that they were
perhaps not equipped to do.

Now again, that impression I had when I left him was at
variance with what I had heard before I came in, where I heard

he and or he at least had been active in West Germany

in wet affairs, particularly kidnappings and that sort of
thing.
Mr. Baron, And you carried into his office the impression

that Colonel Pash was a man who could carry off an assassination

Docla: 3202418 Page 19 TOP SECRET



gsh 39

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

reel, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

HW 50955

10
11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

TOP SECRET 39

Mr. Hunt. No.

Mr. Baron. Did you ever discuss this matter with anyone
ether than Colonel Pash?

Mr, Hunt. In that context?

Mr. Baron. In the context of assassinations or kidnapping.

Mr. Hunt. Well, I wasn't involved in plotting or planning
any kidnappings. Again, I would suggest that I might very
well have gone back tof Pwho was the most interested

individual, because he was responsible at the branch level

(Bs an operational tool, whereas, I had an overall
political responsibility p And I have described

the background of that, the rubric under which I became
interested in the Albanian problem in the first place, and
then having talked to Pash, it would have been only natural

for me to have said tol look, I've talked with Pash

and he says it will have to be approved by higher authority.

|| Now have you gotten, we don't have a body yet, but when you

get a name to put on the target, at that point you will have to
carry the ball and take it on up the line.
Mr, Baron, And you never heard anything further about it? |
Mr. Hunt. No, probably because I went within, I think,
a comparatively few weeks off to the Guatemala operation.

Mr. Baron, Did anyone ever mention it to you, say did

(iitetiictictienicn ever mention it to you again?
Mr, Hunt, No. I next saw pint hin

DocId:32p02418 Page 20 TOP SECRET


gsh 40
3
3
=
g

End 18,
¢
é

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

10

il

12

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21)

22

23

24

25

DocId:32202418 Page 21 TOP SECRET

| and I don't think told me that he was dead. I don't

| and Oppenheimer book or from the newspapers, from the Crewdson

| story, I don't think at the first level when I began recalling

TOP SECRET 40

it would be about '57 or '58, and I had dinner in his home in

Taipei, and I'm quite sure I said at that time, whatever

happened to Boris Pash, or what do you hear from Boris?

Now he was a rather unusual individual to say the least,

know who told me that Boris, that Pash died, but whatever
he said, it was, well, he was okay the last time I saw him

and that was the last time we ever discussed it.

Mr. Baron. And you didn't discuss this request?

Mr. Hunt. No.

Mr. Baron, Where did you receive the impression that i
Colonel Pash was dead?

Mr. Hunt. I guess when, either from reading the Lawrence

the story, I don't think I was aware that Boris Pash was

dead,
Mr. Baron, In the Crewdsonstory there is an allusion
to the fact that Colonel Pash is probably dead.
Are you saying that that came from Crewdson's .research
and not from yourself?
Mr. Hunt. Oh, yes, that came from Crewdson's research, not
min
Mr. Baron. This is more than a minor note on the record,

Colonel Bash is not dead.

Mr. Hunt. Oh, good, I thought he was dead.



gsh 43

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

RW 50955

10

11

12

13

14 |

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Docla: 34202418 Page 22

TOP SECRET 43

my assumption at that time was that authorization by Frank
Wisner would have been all that would have been required to

proceed with the project had it ever materialized. That is

i $ .
| the Chief of the Clandestine Services,

i Now whether Frank would have been required to go to

Allen Dulles, I rather doubt it. I think it is something that

|| he would have been able to authorize himself.

Mr. Baron. All right. Let me ask you now before we get
into Colonel Pash's version of the story, which we will,
whether it is possible that you are confusing the time periods
here?

So as not to hold anything back from you, Colonel Pash
has said that the time period has to be off because he
retired from the Agency, or left the Agency in probably late
"Sl. It's possible that it went into 1952. But he wasn't
with the Agency in any capacity after '52. And in fact, his
status was that of a military officer who had been detailed
to the Agency from approximately 1948 to '52.

Now does that affect your recollection in any way of the
period '54 to '55 as the period when your conversation with
Boris Pash took place?

Mr. Hunt. Well, from 1950 to 1953, I was in Mexico

7

Mr. Baron. And where were you from the time that you

joined the Agency until you went to Mexico?

TOP GECRET


gsh 44

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

3
3
g
g
3
€
§
é
5
3
a
3
&

NW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

el

22

23

24

25

DocId:34202418 Page 23

TOP SECRET

44

Mr. Hunt. I was a member of the PP staff.

Mr. Baron. Is it possible that your conversation with
Boris Pash about the assassination of a suspected double agent
took place in that time period?

Mr. Hunt. I would have to say it's possible, yes.

Mr. Baron. Would you have been dealing with East

| European problems or --~

Mr. Hunt. No, I was dealing with West European problems.

Mr. Baron. I'm sorry. Would you have been dealing with
a problem like this one, a problem with a suspected Albanian
double agent in West Germany during that time period?

Mr. Hunt, I can't recall having done so. The West
European Division had its own PP staff officer and he would
have been the one to take it up, whereas my recollection is
that this was generated at a later time when I was in the
Southeast European Division and had a direct reason to become
interested in the matter.

I have to say that it is possible, but I would say maybe
5 percent possible.

Mr. Baron. And you accord so small a possibility to
the hypothesis that you actually talked to Pash about this
problem in '49 or '50 because you were not involved in
operations in West Germany at that point.

Mr. Hunt. No, I was not.

Mr. Baron, And at that

TQP SECRET


gsh 45

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

@

410 First Street, 5.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

10

ll

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Docld:32p02418 Page 24

TOP SECRET 45

point?
Mr. Hunt. No, no. He was not.
Mr. Baron. Where were you in '49 and '50 physically?

Mr. Hunt. Physically I was in the JRK building with the

passbesnessesee™” uci
PP staff and my direct supervisor at that time was r

who I have mentioned earlier.

Mr. Baron. Did you travel to West Germany during that
period of time?

Mr. Hunt. No, I did not.

Mr. Baron. In the later period, '50, '54, and '55, that
you were discussing, did you travel often to West Germany?

Mr. Hunt. No,

Mr. Baron. You were stationed in Washington?

Mr. Hunt. I was stationed in Washington and from the

period after I left Mexico, which was in, I think, March of '54

for about the ensuing year when I left for the Guatemala project’

I was in Washington or the SE Europe Division. So I had
that continuous almost year there.

Mr. Baron. Is there anything else that adds to your
sense of the probabilities that this conversation took place
in '54 and '55?

Mr. Hunt. No. My restructuring is as I have given it
to you, my recollections.

Mr. Baron, Okay. Let me ask you the same question in

maybe a straightforward manner.

TOP SECRET



gsh 47

Pnone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Wasnington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

11

12

13 |

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

25

Docld:32~02418 Page 25 TAD CEC RET

TOP SECRET ©

political affairs, and his was the 7th, which had less well

defined functions. And pwas a member of that unit. |

Do you recall any dealings that you had in your earliest

period of service with the CIA with PB7, now that I've refreshed
your recollection?

Mr. Hunt. Not as such, no. Does Colonel Pash define

what his functions were in the PB7?

Mr. Baron. Before I answer that one, let me ask you one.

Mr. Hunt. I've been trying to develop a helpful colloquy

here.
Mr. Baron. This is very helpful. |
Do you recall any charters that any of ens planning
branches had?
Mr. Hunt, At this juncture, no. I was only aware that,

I think mine was PB2, This is when I first went in in 1949

or 1950, I think that was (Bei. |

Mr. Baron, Colonel Pash described the charter of PB7
as giving PB? responsibility for such other functions as the
six other units didn't perform.

Does that square with your recollection of what he was
doing in those early days?

Mr. Hunt. Well, you see, I don't associate Colonel Pash
with the very early days. I associate him with a later period,
about three years or five years later.

Mr. Baron. Do you have any specific recollection of Colonel



gsh 48

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD @ PAUL

. SE., Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First 51

HW 50955

12 |

13

14 |

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET 48

Pash's activities in the years 1949 to 1952?

Mr. Hunt. Not at all, no. My only other collateral
recollection is that Colonel Pash was said to have come to us.
He was recently assigned in Germany and he had come to us

from there. That was all that I knew.

Mr. Baron. } who has also testified this

| past week on this subject, said that his recollection of the

charter of PB7 was that it gave PB7 responsibility for

authority may assign or as were not being performed by other
units.

Does that square with the impression that one were given
by your superiors of the functions of Colonel Pash's unit?

Mr, Hunt. Yes. I didn't even know that, was
still alive. So then supports my functional recollection,
let's say.

Mr. Baron. Let's introduce as Exhibit 6 an article in
the New York Times dated January 8th, 1976, headed "Retired
Colonel Denies Heading CIA Unit for Assassinations."

(The document referred to was

Hunt Exhibit No. 6)

Docld:34

pozais Page 26 TODS GECDET

marked for identification as |

assassinations, kidnappings and such other functions as higher

1



a
a
sv
w
w

‘Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

RW 50955

12

13

14 |

15

16

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Docla:34

TOP SECRET 33

with reali certainty that no such conversation took place and

planning or inquiring into the capability for assassination
planning, he maintains that assassinations were never raised
with him, what do you then have to say about his
testimony?

Mr. Hunt. I would have to say that his perceptions and
mine were at variance and that we were engaged in some sort
of an Aesopian dialogue in which neither of us understood
what the other was saying.

I had no other reason to approach him. I had never heard
of the man except in that particular context.

Mr Baron. And there was no other reason for them
discussing capabilities for an assassination?

Mr, Hunt. That's correct.

Mr, Baron. Were you aware of any specific function that
Colonel Pash performed with the CIA after the date of 1952?

Mr. Hunt, Well, my recollection is that I saw him in
'54 and '55 and that's the only specific function that I can
relate him to.

Mr, Baron. Now you have drawn a chart of the PP staff

Exhibit 4, that locates Colonel Pash and on the

PP staff.

date the Colonel Pash gives as his retirement date from the

po2sis Page 27 TOP SECRET

Is it possible that they served on the PP staff before the

j

that even in terms of exploring the possibility of assassination



w
rs

gsh

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

©

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

HW 50955

|
!
’
|

5
i

1s |
16 |
17 |
18
19

20

22 |
23
24

25

' i
|| when I was}

|

I

i n Mexi in '53 id
° a B xico in , an

TOP SECRET 54

CIA, which is sometime in '52?

Mr. Hunt. Is it possible? Yes, I believe it's possible

because was one of the original people in OPC.

Mr. Baron. At what point did OPC merge or was it
transformed?

Mr. Hunt. Well, it merged with OSO, I think, in 1953

I came out of there in, I think, March of '54, I left Mexico.

By that time the merger had taken place.

Mr. Baron. So is it possible that this chart could have
been a chart of the PP staff as it operated under the OPC
structure, the 453?

Mr. Hunt. Yes. In fact, I don't think that there was
any particular change from the PB to the PP era,

Mr. Baron. The reason for my own confusion here is that
Colonel Pash and{ shave both said that at the
point when OPC was merged, or at some point shortly thereafter,
PB7 was abolished and they don't know what became of it.

They say the functions that these seven planning branches

| performed were scrambled and reorganized and they were never

sure exactly who carried through the functions that had

| previously been assigned to PB7.

Mr. Hunt. Well, I never heard any more about it.

Just for perhaps a bit more clarification, the labor

Docld:32%02418 Page 28 TOP SECRET



a)
on

gsh

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

@

410 First Street, S.E., Wasnington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

ll

12

13

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22 |

23 |

24

25

Docld:32202418 Page 29

TOP SECRET 85

unit or branch as it appeared in the PP staff following the
merger, that had the same function and the same personnel as }
let's say whatever PB enumerated or numerical designations.

So it's just a question of terminology. I can see that for
chronological purposes you are interested in how I recall it,
whether I recall it by a PB numercial designation or by --

But since I never knew what the Pash{ _—shunit was designated,

whether it was designated by a word or by a number, it

|, doesn't help me at all. And for that reason I can't be

of more assistance to you.

Just go see Colonel Pash. He's in such and such an office

|

|

i

|

down there. : |
Mr. Baron. Off the record for a second. |
(Discussion off the record) |

Mr, Baron. For the record now, while we were off the |

record we agreed to continue this session a while to get into

one or two other areas. But I have a couple of questions to

tag on to the end of this one.

First of all, in his testimony to the

Committee, said that he had no recollection of a conversation
with you where he was present, and you discussed assassination
of a double agent, or the planning for such a mission with |
i
Colonel Pash and himself.

Do you, even having heard his testimony, still have a

clear recollection that was present when you
TOP SECRET


gsh 5

@

WARD & PAUL

End 2A

410 Fisst Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

AW 50955

6

10

ll
\

12
13
14
15
16 |
|
17

18

20
al

22

25 ||

24
, b’. 2B

Docid: aqpor4ie Page 30

TOP SECRET 56

had this conversation?

Mr. Hunt. I do, because to the best of my knowledge and

belief, it was the first time that I had met, ip

That is, I had seen him in the corridors, but it was the

| first time that I was able to append a name to the particular

individual who I had come to recognize visually.

My memory is further jogged in this respect, that f

having identified me as a member of the SE division of the
staff, at a later time but not much later, talked to me about

the possibility of his being aasigned to the SE division.

And my recollection of the conversation is that told

me that he was a great friend of

and that this friendship should be put to use for the Agency's
benefit, and it could be best done by his being transferred
to SE division for ultimate assignment to Athens.

Mr. Baron. Do you have from anything in your experience
in the CIA any personal animosity toward Colonel Pash or

e

Mr. Hunt. On the contrary. I've always regarded myself
as a friend Of creel and I only had one contact
with Boris Pash. And I have no feeling about him one way
or the other except that in his recent book I read about his
involvement in the Manhattan Project and I certainly admired

his contribution to national security in that era.

Mr. Baron. In “| testimony, he gave us an
TOP SECRET



gsh 57

Phone (Area 202) 54416000

WARD & PAUL

eet, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

ey
3

HW 50955

12

13

14

15

16

ne

18

TOP SECRET 3?

i
account of ‘an incident when he was stationed atY ‘and he sai

that he
had written a cable to CIA headquarters outlining a propaganda

program because he was involved in propaganda operations at

| that point. And he said, unbeknownst to him, someone else

| in his station with the approval of the Chief of Station

attached an extra paragraph to this cable which suggested the
assassination of Chou En Lai in preparation for the Bandoeng
Conference where Chou En Lai was supposed to be an important
spokesman on behalf of many Asian nations.

And the way that| ~—~—~—~—~S™*«W recounted the incident,
he knew nothing about the paragraph that had been attached to

his cable until the reply came back very strongly in the

negative and eventually, a high ranking CIA official came out

o reprimand everyone involved in the incident for i

— :

suggesting assassination.

Do you have any recollection of that incident?

Mr. Hunt. No, I have no knowledge. What year does

| prefer to because I was in

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

pin Tokyo from, oh, about ‘55 to

And I would have seen most of the traffic that
came out off Pin that period of time, But I don't know
if -- I know that [_}stayed on a after my
time in the Far East.

I don't know when the Bandoeng Conference took place. |

remember it, of course, but I don't remember the year.

DocId: 33}

o2ais Page 31 TOP SECRET



gsh 58

4
3
<
e
ry
Q
«
<
3

1, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

a
2
z

RW 50955

10

il

12

16

1?

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Docld:32202418 Page 32

TOP SECRET 58

Mr. Baron. It appears to me that the Bandoeng Conference
took place, according tol ——s—ss~s*s«éi testimony, in 1955
and that the incident he was describing was either in '55 or
late in '54.

Mr. Hunt. I had no recollection of it whatever. [
is not suggesting that is some basis for personal animosity,
I trust.

Mr, Baron. No. He did say, though, that you might have
had knowledge of that suggestion, although he wasn't sure of
it. He said you were involved at that time in a place where
you might have seen cable traffic like that.

Mr. Hunt. That's quite right, but I never saw that
traffic.

Mr. Baron. Let me pick up one last general question for
the moment at least on assassinations.

Do you have any knowledge of even the consideration of

| assassinations at high levels of the American governemnt?

In other words, we have been using the term higher
authority and I would like to use it for the moment now to
refer to the level of the DCI or the National Security Council
the President, his close White House advisors, Cabinet
officials, and the DCI.

Do’ .you have any knowledge of any people at that level
seriously considering assassination planning?

Mr. Hunt. No, none. I think you have to bear in mind

TOP SECRET



gsh 60

(Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL,

. S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First 51

NW 50955

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

25

DocId: 3%

| made my trip to Havana the summer of 1960, and then we had

TOP SECRET 60

to me and I was surprised when on invasion day Castro was

alive. I now realize from testimony that Harvey and others

have given that the matter had been discussed long before my

arrival on the scene and it was in hand one way or the other.
Mr. Baron. When was your arrival on the scene?

Mr. Hunt. Spring of 1960. I transferred up, I actually

the Bay of Pigs invasion the following April.of ‘61.

Mr, Baron, Now it is my own recollection of our

assassination report that no action was taken to carry out
an assassination plan against Castro as early as the spring
of 1960, i |
Did something --
Mr. Hunt. No. I've giving you, I guess, a bureaucratic
answer. I was officially transferred back to Washington in

the spring of 1960 and I took some leave en route in Spain

I

Ld)

po2418 Page 33 TOP SECRET

Eventually I mad@ my way back to Washington in the spring
and early summer and got on the scene within a few days of
my actually reporting:into’ the” project managers, i.ez, Bissell
and Barnes, who decided I would go down to Havana for a period
of time, and I went down for about a week and came back, and
by that time we were talking maybe July or so.

Mr. Baron. July of '60?



gsh 62

-

a)

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

TOP SECRET a

Mr. Hunt. That's correct.
Mr. Baron. Before we move away from Cuban operations,

let me show you one cable that we have which is fro

| and it appears to be to CIA headquarters because it is marked

5 | IN 75100, and it is dated September 16, 1964 in handwriting

10

ala

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

DocId: 32

|| that was put on the copy that we have by the Agency.

This is not the original copy of the cable but it appears
to be a copy that was deleted and paraphrased for the purposes
of providing it to the Committee in the early days of our
inquiry.

We will mark this as Exhibit 7.

(The document referred to was
marked for identification as

Hunt Exhibit No. 7)

PO2418 Page 34 TAB GECBET


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

®

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

HW 50955

gsh 64 |
i
|
|

10

ll

12

13

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

‘| communications were handled independently between myself and

TOP SECRET 64

Mr. Hunt. That can't conceivably have been a reference to |

Mr, Baron. Why is that?

Mr. Hunt. Because I had not been involved in Cuban
activities for more than three years at that time. I was
purposely isolated from all Cuban activities after the Bay
of Pigs.

Mr. Baron, You said you did operate out of Madrid for a
period of time but it was later than September of '64?

Mr. Hunt. No. Let me clarify that.

I was sent to Madrid in either '64 or '65. I can't

recall which, and I stayed there less than a year.

A

Tom Karramessines, who was then Deputy Director for Plans.

This was a project that had been laid on by Dick Helms.

er | SSRN me

and I had no Cuban activities of any kind.

Mr. Baron. And did you have any knowledge of a relativaship,

to a plan to assassinate Castro, supposedly to take place
during a university ceremony?

Mr. Hunt. No,

Mr. Baron. Let's move on now to an entirely different

area, and I will ask you to begin by describing your general

role in the middle of the 1960s on the CA staff with regard to

Docla: 3}

02418 Page 35 TOP SECRET


gsh.65

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

1, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

)

HW 50955

10

ll

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

21

22

23

24

25

DocId:32202418 Page 36

|
!

publishers in the United States for the benefit of geographic

TOP SECRET 6s |

press publications or press placements or any responsibilities
you may have had for media relations. i

Mr. Hunt. After Allen Dulles's resignation and retirement,

I was assigned for about a period of a week to the CA staff

|/and I then transferred to the newly set up Domestic Operations

| Division under Tracy Barnes, which was really the Commercial

Operations Division, although it was never so-called. 1

I was the first Chief of Covert Action for the Domestic !

Operations Division and we inherited as a new division a number '

of projects that had been running for a period of time, that !

had been run by the commercial staff of the Agency and by a
; 1

number of the geographic divisions.

|

The purpose of turning these ongoing projects over to the

Domestic Operations Division was to centralize contacts with

divisions such as the Asian or Far East Division which might
'

sien
want a book published on Eror a particular purpose. :

They would come to Tracy Barnes with a particular request.

And I should say that the relationship with the

a period of time and I think they were managed by Cord Myer

International Division, if I'm nat mistaken, or possibly the

CA staff. But what we received were ongoing operations. We

were sent the case files for theg@y

TOP SECRET


gsh 66

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Steet, 5-E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

©

NW 50955

10

iL

12

13

14 |

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET fs

organization, which had been operating out of GRSENaeions

(BEesseSuilding in Washington. /We had a project in’ Which

I visited on one occasion called Punich we ran

out of a virginia office. :

I had no personal media contacts with American magazines
or newspapers, if that is the thrust of your question.

Mr. Baron. Actually, I'm interested in this whole area,
both contacts with specific reporters or media people dome-
stically or contacts with publishing houses or contacts abroad
in the publishing field.

Mr, Hunt. ,Well, I've given you the names of the publishing
houses that we had contact with. I did on one occasion meet
and I can't recall the purpose of it, it was a very large
textbook publishing house and their main offices were in
New Jersey. If I had an annual for publishers, I could pull
it out.

v
But beside from that publishing house, we never did any

business with them. I don't recall of any publishing houses

we dealt with.

We had our own press agency, 4

imagine you're quite familiar with.
S
Mr, Hunt. Can you describe the standard mode of

operating with these various publishing outlets?

In other words, how would you have supplied them with

Docld:32~02418 Page 37 TOP SECRET



oO
a

gsh

Phone (Area 202) $44-6000

WARD & PAUL

eS

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

HW 50955

10
_ aa
12
13
14
15
16
at
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

Docld:32202418 Page 38

TOP SECRET 67

material? Would you urge them to publish a manuscript they

already had from another source? Would you give them a

manuscript that CIA personnel had written under a pseudonym?
Mr. Hunt. I don't think that ever took place, to my

knowledge.

What I recall is fneeting with Tracy Barnes
and me or individually, either in Washington or New York during
this period and saying I have a great book I would love to
publish, but it's not economically feasible, and I think it

would be good for you people abroad for the following reasons.

And we might come up with the differential or we might not.

I don't recall any Agency-created manuscripts that were
sent to Weer for that matter, any other publisher. |

I recall we had a lot of accounting problems with ig

and finally we got really almost bogged down in arguments
about back copies. It was a little on the nightmarish side.
We did turn out some good books, but I couldn't give. you a
title at this point. But I'm sure that they are a matter of
record within the Agency.

Mr, Baron, What was the nightmarish aspect of it?

Mr. Hunt. Well, apparently, before the project came under

DOD, it had been handled on a very freewheeling basis by the

t everything he wanted

previous project managers.
from the Agency in terms of subsidy money and expense money

and publicity money and that sort of thing and when we took ’

TOP SECRET


a
a
x
a
o

Pnone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

i)

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

15

16

17

18

19

20

22

23

24

25

.professional management, but I do so in a qualified sense in

Docld:3202418 Page 39 it TOP SECRET !

TOP SECRET 68

it over it was brought under -- I hesitate to use the term

that I was the only one, I guess, who knew anything about the

publishing industry, who had ever been connected with the

project. So I knew a little about it. i
And at that time, with the help of our own commercial
people within the Division, our accountants and auditors and

so forth determined that there were a number of aspects of

our fiduciary relationship with the eee company that would
bear greater investigation.

So the relationship from a freewheeling one prior to our
DOD managerial take-over, it became from a freewheeling thing,
it became sort of an unpleasant continuous argument about

dollars and cents, rather than functional matters.

Mr. Baron. Out of what funds at the CIA did these monies

come from that we were giving to fim

Mr. Hunt. I wouldn't have any idea, project money.

Mr. Baron. Who signed off on the project money?

Mr. Hunt. Well, it would depend on how much it cost.
I think that Karamessines could sign off up to $50,000 and
beyond that it had to be signed off on by Helms, I think. That!
my best recollection. And I don't know -- as annual review |

Hl

was conducted, and of course the division chief had to approve |
ti

Mr. Baron. Did the operation involve companies other than



gsh 68A TOP SECRET 68a

the ones you've mentioned? In other words, supplying funds

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
ay

if
2 '| to companies other than the ones you've already mentioned?
| Mr. Hunt. I don't know of any. None that I knew of.

I would be very surprised if a memorandum showed up saying

we

that we were dealing with Random House, for example. I just

5
Ht
6 || don't recall now.
|
i
9 iZ Mr. Baron. Was there any other aspect to your liaison
|

8 || with these publishing houses other than their seeking funds

9 | to publish books that you were interested in having published?

10 Mr. Hunt. Only this, that the USIA was, I think, finally
brought into a formal relationship with DOD, at least my

part of it, and the head of the book division at USIA and I

would meet from time to time and he would indicaté that he had

WARD & PAUL
t
nD

a good one that we really ought to do rather than USIA and

elationship.

vice versa. And he knew fully of the

| Mr. Baron. Can you describe the process that you would

16

7 | go through to ensure the publication of a book that the CIA
18 i was interested in having published? An example that I was

19 given by somebody on our staff who has been looking into this

20 was books written by or ghosted for Chinese

Mr. Hunt. As I recall it, the: Chinese branch sort of

22 ran a parallel operation. I don't recaall their coming

23 through us. I don't recall a ‘book when I was in

that particular job. What I do recall is, I remember the

df
Near East Branch brining to our attention a book that they

410 Furst Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

24

25

HW 50955 DocId:34p02418 Page 40 TOP SECR ET



gsh 68B

© (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

eet, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

17

18

19

20

el

22

23

24

25

Docla: 32202418 Page 41

TOP SECRET 6aB

would like to have

foublish, and it had to do with the

i dispute, the name of which I can't ~

{ee
recall. So the manuscript would have been read by g

or his principal assistant, and he would give an indication

of what he thought the marketability was. And at that point --'

well, in this instance, we got the funds from the Near East

Division. When it came down to that, why should DOD, who had

no interest in the jaispute, provide money for

that particular piece of propaganda. So the money would be
transferred somehow from the Near East Division's allocation.
It would be their project, but we would be the managers of it
when it got down to the point of dealing face to face with
fon the matter. My office would keep the division

apprised of the project, when publication could be expected,

and so forth.

|
Mr. Baron, Were there any other CIA publishing proprietarles
i

than the two you have mentioned,
Mr. Hunt. That I had personal knowledge of within the
Domestic Operations Division, no.
Mr. Baron. You qualified that by saying within the
Domestic Operations Division. Were there others?

Mr. Hunt. ‘Because the international operations or Inter-

national Organizational Division under Cord Myer, ran quite a few

things in conjunction with the Congress for Cultural Freedom,

for example. Radio Free Europe, those things that went on.

TOP SECRET

i
|
|
|
|



>

gs.

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

NW 50955

69

10

ll

12

14 |

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

69

Mr. Baron. Did CIA do ghostwriting for non-CIA publi-
cations?

Mr. Hunt. I ghosted a couple of -- I'm very reluctant
to go into this, although I have discussed it with John
Crowdson, But this is another one of those difficult areas
where it's very hard for me to prove.

There came a time in the spring of, I think it was the
spring of about 1969, when the Soviet Russia Division asked
me if E could cause to have published something on the --
by this time I was no longer with the Domestic Operation
Division. I was with Western Europe -- on the increasing use

ind things like that,

and Christ, I hope this doesn't get out.

And so I went to Helms. Howard Osborne was then Chief
of the Division, as I recall. He was late Director of
Security, and this had been staffed out. And I prepared the

article and it appeared in large portions unchanged under the

It was just information which was supplied which he wrote

appeared a month or two months later, and this was done by

Dick Helms.

Mr. Baron. Also under byline?

Mr. Hunt. Yes. You could understand the difficulties

DocId: 32

202418 Page 42 TOP SECRET

byline of } And it was not a fabricated article.

somewhat in his own style, and there was a second article which

involved here and I don't need any more enemies. I have plenty.

i



gsh 70

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

10

il

12

13

14 |

is |

16

17

18

19

20

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

70

Now that is my own personal contribution to that sort of
thing. But I can't think of anything else that was done.

Mr. Baron. By other people? Was it a general practice
to supply either prefabricated articles or the material for
articles to favorable press contacts in this country?

Mr. Hunt. Well, we know about the Phook,

\ eel
Benich was largely a cooperative venture with the Agency,

and that was done by the SR Division.

You are aware of that, aren't you?

Now in that case, you see, the SR reached out on its own.
Penkoski| Papers was another example, We had nothing to do
with that in DOD. That was done, again, by SR division. And
I can understand why.

But basically, in answer to your question, I have given
you everything that I have personal knowledge of.

Mr. Baron. When you made the arrangement with] B
___

Mr. Hunt. I made no arrangement with him.

Mr, Baron, Who handled liaison with him?

Mr. Hunt. Dick Helms.

Mr. Baron. And was that a one-on-one arrangement or
were there other people knowledgeable?

Mr. Hunt. I believe it was a one-on-one, old school tie

arrangement.

DocId: 39202418 Page 43 TOP SECRET

Mr. Baron. Was there any list kept at the CIA of favorabla


gsh 72

TOP SECRET 72

Porganization. I felt that a strict

construction of the CIA charter made the project quite suspect

|| because if we were doing a book, for example, Oi nn?)

| Communism, who was the target? It would have been highly

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

inappropriate for United States citizens to be the target

6 | of the particular book, and we did a hell of a good book on

9 Fcommunism. It became about this thick. I can't

End Tape 2Bg | recall the title.

9

10

ll

12

WARD & PAUL

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

23

@

410 First Street, S-€., Washington, 0.C. 20003

24

25

HW 50955 Docla: 32202418 Page 44 TOP SECRET



83 TOP SECRET

1/10 Hunt 73 |
Harrisgsmnl |
3 |
2 |
e: 1 If your targets are foreign, then where are they? They '
8
8 { |
i 2 don't all necessarily read English, and we had aj H
Pt L
H 3

‘ : 4 ¥s0 unless the book goes into a lot of languages or it is
i

5 |published. in India, for example, where Fnglish is a lingua franca,
6 then you have some basic problems. And I think the way this
9 was rationalized by the project review board that looked over

8 the |

9 ql and things like that was that the ultimate target was
ee ad

10 || formed, which was true, but how much of the §@eaeger joutput

11 || actually got abroad for any impact I think is highly arguable. |

Ethe material was |

12 Now, in the case of

13 || physically mailed from Washington to foreign targets, the

14 FRewspapers, I think particularly thef

15 || Agency was a client, The mere fact that the project was

WARD & PAUL

16 || rooted in the United States gave it sort of a credibility

17 || lustre abroad in that particular era. If it came out of

18 || Washington then it was probably okay.

19 ad no domestic U.S. papers
20 || as clients. What I'm trying to get at is that DOD handled
21 || operations which were based domestically in the United States,

22 || the commercial operations, and this includes proprietary

23 || airlines and things like that, whose ultimate target was

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24 || abroad. The principal target or even a tangential target was

25 || not the United States citizen.

NW 50955 Docld:34202418 Page 45 TOP SECRET



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

HW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

2 TOP SECRET 74

Mr. Baron. But, with anything that was published in
English, the United States citizenry would become a likely
audience for the publication?

Mr. Hunt. A likely audience, definitely.

Mr. Baron, Did you take some sort of steps to make sure
that things that were published in English were kept out of
or away from the American reading public?

Mr. Hunt. It was impossible because §@2

fen)

commercial U.S. publisher. His books had to be seen, had to

be reviewed, had to be bought here, had to be read. Again I
say it was a matter of great difficulty. Mr. Barnes resolved
all that philosophically, and I simply carried out the dicta.

Mr. Baron. What was your philosophical opinion of the
danger of propagandizing Americans?

Mr. Hunt. Well, I knew that it was not a part of the
Agency charter, and it was a matter that the USIA looked at.
I talked about it occasionally. The USIA coincidentally had
come under some criticism at that time for subsidizing certain
publishers in the United States. That became known; I don't
recall how. I discussed with the USIA book man and with
Barnes the danger that we might be criticized for the same
reasons. I was never enchanted with the (eeseeiereration. I
thought it cost far too much money and had minimal benefits
abroad, and further, we had the liability, the vulnerability

to quite reasonable critcism that we had: U.S. citizens as a

DocId:32202418 Page 46 TOP SECRET

|



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

NW 50955

10

il

12

13

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

3 TOP SECRET :

target, or an audience, I should say.
Mr. Baron. Were there any precautions taken against

dissemination in America of publications by CIA proprietaries

in English?

i
Mr. Hunt. Proprietaries, well, my only personal knowledge

Foperation which I say was simply mailed
out of Washington. That was the only precaution, rather than

our people mailing them themselves.

Mr, Baron. Were any techniques used to prevent contamina- !

tion of American intelligence by picking up on things that the

CIA was actually publishing or arranging to have published?

Mr. Hunt. I would assume so, and I would gitess that that

would be done in the first instance by the knowledgeability of

the reports officers in the various geographic divisions at

headquarters who would scan newspapers, for example, or they

would receive raw reports from Jret's say, and see that

there had been a big sale of a particular book which we had

sponsored, which they knew we had sponsored but nobody else
knew. Of course, | Froula have known oc
it, too.

So I would say that it was a pretty good fail-safe. The
area of knowledgeability was high. For one thing, I traveled |
some in those days. I traveled to Bombay. I: talked to the '

‘there. I traveled to New Delhi and talked to

fehere, who was my CA opposite number, and

Docla: 32!

|
1
|
i
!

202418 Page 47 TOP SECRET


Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

S

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

BW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Docld: 32

| of of an eventual placement in the U.S. press of a story that

4 TOP SECRET 46

keep them up to date as to what we were planning. I would do

the same in France and so forth. |
1

Mr. Baron. Were there any specific instances that you know:
the CIA generated or fabricated abroad somewhere? For instance,
ya story could conceivably be picked up by the UPI or by Reuters
i i
| that the CIA had planted abroad.

Mr. Hunt. I can't recall anything significant. I would
guess that during the Cuban, during the days of maximum |
Cuban operation that sort of thing happened. I would think it
would be unavoidable, but I can't specify.

Mr. Baron. And are there any other instances than things
you have mentioned of direct placements of stories in the U.S.

press by the CIA?

Mr. Hunt. I have mentioned the — Which was a
cooperative venture witi( «the ee |
things. No, I can't recall.

Mr. Baron. I touched earlier upon the possibility of
disseminating derogatory information about Agency targets. pie
were you aware of any general program of that nature to discredit
either a foreign political leader or a foreign political fac-
tion, or domestic political groups or leaders?

Mr. Hunt. To the latter question, no. Domestic, I am
not aware of any.

I think the Soviet Russia division was quite active, and it

#02418 Page 46 TOP SECRET



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARO & PAUL

rest, S-E., Washington, D.C: 20003

©

NW 50955

10

il

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

25

24

25

5 TOP SECRET 77

kept a list, for example, and maintained a very good list of
KGB officers abroad, and when one would show up at Luanda, for
example, they would make sure that the local press got the
man's dossier, or at least a blind handout so that they would
know who the fellow was, much as the Butz iauneeeopy operation
is doing today against the CIA.

Mr. Baron. Did you make arrangements, or did you know
of arrangements being made for non-CIA authors to write pieces
that were favorable to the CIA?

Mr. Hunt. No.

Mr. Baron. There was no funding of that kind of opera-
ton?

Mr. Hunt. You mean sort of flackery, the favorable
publicity for the Agency, is that what you imply?

Mr. Baron. Right.

Mr. Hunt. No.

Mr. Baron. What about subsidizing non-CIA authors to
write stories of any sort, or books of any sort that the CIA
was interested in having published?

Mr. Hunt. I would say this in a qualified sense. Where

in the past we commitment to buy X copies

of his book on thg problem, obviously

we were subsidizing the author of that book because it was

as ultimately passing to the indi-

our money that Pesecer

vidual, but that was; egem doing it rather than us. In

DocId:34P02418 Page 49 TOP SECRET



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

)

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

BW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

2l

22

23

24

25

DocId: 34202418 Page 50 TOP SECRET

: TOP SECRET |

other words, there was never any face to face contact.

Mr. Baron. Aside from dealing through publishing houses

that you had established contact with, did you deal individually

i
with authors who were non-CIA employees? !
i

Mr. Hunt. I did not. I don't think DOD did. I think that]
Far East Division did.

Mr. Baron. Do you know with whom?

Mr. Hunt. You mentioned /Chinese | for example. |
Well, they dealt also, the Soviet Russia division dealt with H
: evgon the Penkoski;case. In fact, I had lunch with
Gaavnile he was doing the Penkoski Papers. So that was.
an example. : |

Mr. Baron. Did they have a regular program?

Mr. Hunt. Yes, I think so.

Mr. Baron. Both of those two divisions?

Mr. Hunt. Yes.

Mr. Baron. Is there anything else that you think we would
need in order to have a fairly clear, complete picture of the |
relations to the media or the publishing industry?

Mr. Hunt. Well, I think you could get probably a good
deal more information from Cord Myer, who had a lot of that
directly under him when he was Chief of the International
Organizations Division, and of course, he served as Deputy
Chief of Clandestine Services for quite a while. He would

probably have as panoramic knowledge as anybody. I guess he's



Phone (Area 202) $44-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955

10

il

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24 |

25

; TOP SECRET

80
was that we had made the -- the President had given certain
undertakings to Cuban leadership and to our own paramilitary
people, and had failed to carry them out.

However, this fact was successfully disguised for a number |
of years,. but Dulles and Dick Bissell-paid the price.

In any events, the Bay of Pigs cost Dulles his leadership

of the Agency, and I had the utmost respect for him. I was 1

associated with him as an assistant for the special Cuban
Bay of Pigs purposes, for a period of several months prior to,
perhaps six months prior to his eventual retirement.

I had had occasional contacts with him as pycnio? off]
, and I had seen him in Japan when he came over there
and we had some discussions. Mr. Dulles brought into the
formal Central Intelligence Agency the same feeling of esprit
de corps that we had all enjoyed in the Office of Strategic
Services, and this was largely lost during the McCone director-
ship. And I think we had some admiral after that, Admiral
Radford, possibly. we got under a group of managers, and the
human element that we had enjoyed in OSS was gone with the :
passage of Allen Dulles until Dick Helms came back in. You
see, I'm an unrepentent admirer of Allen Dulles and the way we

used to do business. Why do I sav that? Because the way we cid

business during Mr. Dulles's directorate was precisely the wav

we did it in OSS during General Donovan's creation and direct ion|

of that organization. In OSS. which was Allan Dulles's training,
ground as much

ot Page 51 TOP SECRET


Copy ere wm ‘

at SECRET eau a je a7
aa Zz oe a a
FROM + ; -
qe ACTION: DC/WH/SA 3 . 8
INFO: DDP,VR *
, Je Sear et
SECRET 1612282 ~
- — / 7
‘ PRIORITY DIR INFO PRIORITY WAVE CITE QQH1705 IW fo/ee

REF (GMS 1681 IN 73706 :

4 1. CIA OFFICERS MET WITH SUBJ REF 15.SEPT. ONLY "IMPORTANT",
INFO HE PROVIDED WAS VAGUE REFERENCE TO AGENT-1 PLAN ASSASSTNATE
CASTRO ATTEMPT WOULD SUPPOSEDLY TAKE PLACE DURING UNIVERSITY
CEREMONY AT WHICH CASTRO PRESENT. AGENT-1 REPORTEDLY RESPONSISLE
ARRANGING DELIVERY CUBA ONE BELGIAN FAL EQUIPPED WITH SILENCER.

ABOVE PLAN NOW APPARENTLY ABANDONED.

er WAS TO BE TRIGGERMAN SUPPORTED BY UNIDEN- ARMY OFFICERS.
(® 2. SAID AGENT-1 ANXIOUS LEAVE CUBA ON OFFICIAL VISIT ORDER
CONTACT CIA RE HIS FUTURE ROLE WITH CUBA. SUBJ SUGGESTED RENOTE
POSSIBILITY ARRANGE VISIT PRAGUE THRU AGENT-1 FRIEND JOSE, DELEG
TO IUS. OUR IMPRESSION IS AGENT-1 WANTS COME OUT FOR GOOD AS
PROBABLY FEELS PERSONAL SITUATION TENUOUS.

3, ACCORDING SUBJ, FOLL PERSONS OR INFLUENCE ON AGENT-1 TEAM.
MAJOR, MAJOR AND EX-MAJOR (FNU). :

4, SAID AGENT-2 HAS NUMEROUS CONTACTS CUBAN OFFICIAL CIRCLES
MADRID, PARIS, BUT WORKING FOR ANOTHER GOV'T. SINCE HE IN BAD
STANDING WITH U.S.G. HINTED CIA SHOULD BE IN TOUCH Acear-V HOWLVER

IAS STRONG RESERVATIONS AGAINST AGENT-2 ON SECURITY GROUNDS

FROM
re) Se CR cit

HW 50955 DocId:32202418 Page 52



pee Se Ce Reel
PAGE 2

AND FACT HE OUT FOR GOLD, PLUS LITTLE EVIDENCE CAPALILITY

@ PRODUCE INFO OF INTEREST. : a

c PCP WHO LEFT MELTING FIRST, CLEARLY INFERRED TO SUBJ IT HAD
BEEN “GREAT WASTE OF TIME." OTHER CIA OFFICER PROCEEDED POLITELY
“CHEW OUT" SUBJ FOR GETTING US TO ABOVE MEET ON FALSE PRETENSES. 7
SUBJ FRANKLY ADMITTED HIS “RECRUITMENT” BY CIS WAS HANDLED IN SUCH
SLOPPY MANNER AS BE CONSTRUED A FARCE. VIEW VAGUENESS HIS MISSTOX
AND LACK SECURE CONTACTS, REPORTING CHA

NELS, IT APPARENT CIS NOT
EXPECTING MUCH RESULTS FROM OP WHICH PROBABLY MADE ON "HIT OR MISS"
BASIS. QUITE LIKELY "EDUARDO" WILL NEVER APPEAR TO CONTACT SUBJ

. 6. SEEING HIS "UTILITY" TO US AS DUBIOUS, SUBJ BEGAN SCRATCHEN:
HEAD FOR LEADS AND MENTIONED FOLL "FRIENDS" HE MIGHT CONTACT: ORLAND

BLANCO '@loutE Gpospy, CHARGE IN BERN WHO COMING S SEPT; (FSU)

TRASANCO OF PAIR EMB WHO CONFIDANTE AMLASH 1 ALSO KNQWN AMLAS!

r €) AND ENRIQUE RODRIQUEZ LOECHES, ANB TO MOROCCO _
20 SEPT.
7. C/O SAID NOW UP TO SUBJ SHOW BONAFIDES SUGGESTING HE WOULD
TAKE ADVANTAGE HIS "UNIQUE STATUS" AS CUBAN AGENT GAIN ENTRY
OFFICIAL CIRCLES. SUBJ FEARS WE MAY DENY VISA AND DENOUNCE HIN T9
i me BoLicE. ALTHOUGH HE PROMISED MAKE EVERY EFFORT, INDICATIONS
TO DATE ARE HE WILL HAVE LITTLE, IF ANY, OPS UTILITY. IN ANY EVENT
WAS TOLD EXAMINE THOROUGHLY ANY LEADS HE MIGHT HAVE IN NEXT FEW
DAYS. WE WILL DECIDE IN NEXT MEETING OR TWO WHETHER HE DOLS APPEAR
TO HAVE ANY UTILITY, IF NOT IE WILL BE DROPPED.
Hie SE BECI GENT
he | sbrseialMrrtrcaste to sexsttive cates

SECRET

meanest see iA



ovens tna Gre eeg HY ACUTELY Gy 18S uP Sp

THE NEW YORK TIMEs, THURSDay, JANUARY 8. 1976

|

Retired Colonel Denies Heading l

a bf cd e 1
|) CLA. Unit for Assassinations!
a reeaee recy eee eee j
| SEHR 1a The New Yeo Times i
War HINGTON, Jan. 7 — s.1949 ang 1931
ne ae SOL. the period nm
retired Army colonel has denied wire}
|to Senate investigators gone i ie fe was temporarily. as-|
Te ten PY cE Howard” Hunt: S:R8Cd to the CLA, of at any
Jr ha the colonel once headed, Mer time in his carer’
j@ Central Intelligence Agency! Mr. Hunt said in a recent!
junit set up to arrange for the interview that during his ser-,
[assassinations of Suspected Vice With the C.La,'s Balkans,
‘double-agents Giision in the mid-1930'" he
| The colonel, Boris 1. pach, had uiscussege MS Colonel!
told the Senate Select Commit. Pash. at his superiors’ hehes
tee on Intelligence westerday 27°. Prospective assassinatios

| * Of an individual who was be-!
jthat during 1954 and sb reli ieved to be a double agent”

{period in which Mr. : "
jformer C.LA. officer, said he that capaoiifl, that we had
ity.” Mr. Hunt said

Was told that Colonel Pash {P the interview, ang tent $2
: ‘that the
ret Suet 22 9peration—he had 0 he inte about. ahi eat te;
left the CLA. and returned things was Colonel Pash
to military service "Mr. Hunt, who said. that hej
In a statement made public had understood that Colonel:
by the panel today. Caionel Pash was deceased, added that,
Pash termed Mr. Hunt's asser-ihe dig discuss the matter with
Hons “insidious and completely’ the “csleccy who. seemed!
false. iShocked “that the subject has!
He said he could not recalliever been brought up," and
Fret having met or spoken with that the meron consequently
Mr. ‘Hunt, who is serving a was left thers |
prison term for his role’ in: Investigators for the Senate
the Watergage case. jcommittee are now attempting
Nor. the colonel said, wasito interview Me Hunt about}
he ever “involved in any assas- this assertion committee
sination planning” _ between spokesman sm, !

SPANISH TROOPS RUN through the center of the capital!

between working-class neighbor,
SUBWAY IN MADRID -hooas. Passengers were ad.
——__! mitted free, :

MADRID, Jan. 7 (AP)—Thej fee
Spanish Army began Tunning: MADRUD, Jan. 7 (Reuters)—

the Madrid: subway system to. Striking Madrid subway work: |
day as the Government moved,ers tonight voted to dety Gov.

MISSES
SEASC
STYLE

jingerly to break a three-day/érnment pressure and. to con-i
wildcat strike that set off the/tinue their walk-out Strike! Find the ta
worst traffic ‘snarl in the city’s leaders said they would hold! Single and doubie t

+e PICK from plenty «
want. We even have som

MISSES’ AN

history. (out until their wage demands!

: Fearing a possible labor back-: were met,
——_—_—_—_!| lash, the Government refrained] The strikers voted not to!
for the moment, however, fromiaccept an offer from the offi-!
drafting the rebellious subwayjcial Government-run union to)

workers into service. {hold talks if they retumed to
7 : About 3,000 electric company| work.
a ‘workers marched into the cen- |

ter of Madrid in support of the; BARCELONA, Spain, Jan, 7

Rachs, an outspoken Roman
The police said they broke up Catholic priest nominated for
similar demonstrations by fac- |i Nobel Peace Prize last year.
tory workers on the city's was arrested today while dem.
Outskirts. No arrests or injuries onstrating near the local Prison
were reported. : lin support of amnesty for politi.
Army’ personnel trained asjcai Prisoners, police sources said.
railroad engineers reopened the Surnne
AUMEMBER THE NiEEDIESTI

main subway line, which runs

Discover grax
Single and doubie :

A printed two-piece

a 32202418 BA


Eybabs t if

STATEMENT BY E. HOWARD HUNT

A year ago when Congress established the Church Committee, Senator
Beker was quoted as saying that I would be an early witness. I was then free
on Appeal and readily available to testify concerning CIA involvement in
allegedly illegal penance is Moreover, I viewed testifying before the
Committee as & further/to testify under oath concerning ay total non =
involvement with Messrs Oswald, Bremer and Sirhan, persons with whom my
name has been slanderously and libelously linked in press and electronic
media, Although I had been interviewed previously by the FBI and the Rock-
efeller Commission with regard to these allegations a host of assassination
puffs and media advocates continued irresponsibly to associate me with the
deaths of the Kennedy brothers and the crippling of Governor Wallace.

My Appeal denied, I re-entered prison in April,1975. Three weeks
later US Marshals escorted me to Washington DC for what turned out to be a
three-hour interview with a new Watergate Assistant Special Prosecutor. For
a 9eday period I was lodged at the Leesburg, Vae, jail,and finally returned
via Detroit and Tallahassee where I was imprisoned in the isolation area
before being driven on May 26 to Eglin Federal Prison Camp. On May 27,
Assistant Comittee Counsel Michael Madigan telephoned me to say that the
Church Committee wanted to interview me “within the next two weeks". I
apprised Mr. Madigan of Public Law 93-209, Title 18. Sec4082(c) Paras 1
(amended) which authorises minimum security prisoners such as myself to be
furloughed for up to 30 days for purposes of testifying. Counsel Madigan
agreed to ny testifying on this furlough basise

Over the sumer,however, I heard nothing further from Hr. Madigan
or his Committee associates. Then in mid-September a Washington POST story
alleged that I had been assigned by a White House superior to assassinate
columist Jack Anderson. Senator Church was thereupon quoted as saying

that his Committee would investigate the charges. I welcomed this apparent



" HUWT= Cont'd.

~2-

opportunity, for the allegations had gained wide credence while my om
delayed response appeared only incompletely in the press, Still, nothing
was heard from the Committees

In December 1975 John Crewdson of the New York Times interviewed
me in prison. He asked if I knew anything about "CIA assassination capa«=
bilities”, and I related to him my encounter with Col. Boris T. Pash. Mre
Crewdson then inquired whether the Church Committee had interviewed me.
I responded in terms of the foregoing, noting that I would have testified
about the Pash encounter had I been given the publicized opportunities.
My interview with Mr. Crewdson was published and shortly thereafter my
attorney was contacted by a representative of the Committee.

I consider it highly discriminatory that the Committee is
unwilling to have me testify in Washington as a furloughed witness.
Further, the Committee's refusal to postpone interviewing me in prison
until one of two counsel familier with my career and affairs is available
places me in a difficult position with regard to representation by informed
legal counsel. And, as during the Ervin Committee hearings ( whose cost in
legal fees to me approached $100,000) I must again pay legal fees occasioned
by the interest of the Senate in a matter of no discernible benefit to me.

Between last January and April I could freely have traveled to
Washington to testify at the pleasure of the Senate. From then on I could
have been furloughed for that purpose and testified accompanied by customary
counsel who are not now available to me. Nevertheless, in demonstration of

my willingness to cooperate fully with the Senate I agree to be interviewed

under oath today. SH y Khe —

B. Howard Hunt

Vam£, a 790IP OS



C(sé\- Bakeet
Rictk#AAOSe nt



C
] Em ete] | [Row
)
Cares Lleyp aE | To.
| ( Tom Seacan



HW 50955 DocId:32202418 Page 59

Fraismng °°

ines
x
x
=
+






