157-10011-10003| | 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

:

Date:08/15/92

ee Page: ]|
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
@ IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION ae
AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10003
REGORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION ioe eatin seas Gaatiil
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : [R]
TO: [R]
TITLE :
INDEX CARDS [R]
DATE : 06/00/75 |
PAGES : 161

SUBJECTS :
@ OPERATION MONGOOSE (R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 132, Book 4 of 5, Index Cards, June, 1975

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32203771 Page 1


- @ abeq TELE0CZE'PIIOG CGé0S AH

NO OBJECTION
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

CATEGORIES:

BISSELL Aug. 12, 1960 MONGOOSE

DULLES Special Group“
GRAY

MERCHANT

OCCURRENCE:

On August 12, 1960 the Special Group heard a_ summary of the budget for Cuban
operations from MR. BISSELL. Approximately million dollars were required
to finance Cuban operations for the fiscal yea and a balance of Gi was

necessary for the remainder of the fiscal year. Major subheadings in the budget

were (1) political action,—(2)-propaganda;—(}-paramititary,—(4)—intelligence

collection, (5) counterintelligence, (6) communications support, (7) support.

It was agreed "This matter should be laid before the appropriate higher authori-
ties and a presentation would be arranged hopefully within the
next 10 days. This was believed to be wise, not because any

rrr (continued)

ting August 12, 1960
» 3

SOURCE: i 7 STAFF:
Minutedof*

DATE; Robert Kelley
Cage —

June 29, 1975


‘g-abeq TLLe0Zzze:pro0q sc6os BH

ed CAS ee ood B
Or

aN clas pcg ncmtion
NO OBJECTION AN AELeRee oF HSE
wt seo RSSMITED 172

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

] Special Group

MONGOOSE :
Presidential Authorization

Carn 3 3

Oct. 6, 1960

jjin this group and that we would talk informally
about it. Ne emphasized that he was asking for no
Special Group approval at this time in this specific connection."

STAFF:

Minutes of Special Group meeting October 6, 1960 DATE: Bob Kelley
FILE: Cage ~~ June 29, 1975


-B abea TLLE0@ZE:PTIO0G §=GG60G MH

NTO
JECHO
CIABRES no ond pion B TDR

neta = DOCUMENT
; 1s Baie 3
No OBJECTION fA “ qe
L SECURITY COUN
NATIONAL SECU

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

ll eo r rs
HELMS PRESIDENT KENNEDY CSSECIAL GROUP
MOCONE . MONGOOSE

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD July 25,1962 |

OCCURRENCE: . Helms notes that McCone briefed the panel of the President's foreign
intelligence advisory board on political action projects. Ne pointed out that"each project
must have his approval to the “circulation to’ the’ members of the Special Group". For
example, reconnasiance overflights are now approved. He noted covert financial support

ff Helms "read to the panel
a_paper_on_the_operation Mongoose which theDirector had used earlier in the day for giving

a briefing to the President."

SOURCE: Memorandum for the record, re meeting on CA matters} STAPF: /
with the panel of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory | diGenova‘
Board ,9f Helms, dated July 25, 1962 (00870) | pare:

TV/IULTIS


G aBed TALe0zze:PIO0G sceoc BH

” NO OBJECTION 2. ayers
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
f/o/44

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: : CATEGORIES:
LANSDALE, Special Group ~

. Mongoo

OCCURRENCE: Lansdale traces the history of the project from its inception on Nov.
1961 through March 1, 1962. Under the latter date, he notes, '"'The Chief of Operations
/Lansdale/is to report to the President through the Special Group (NSC 5412 Augmented
by the Attorney General and the Chairman, JCS); the Special Group will be responsible for
providing policy guidance for approving important operations, and for monitoring progress."
(00181) Lansdale also submitted an intelligence plan for basic intelltsénce collection
upon which to base the decision to undertake acti lise? the ‘ove throw of Castro.

0;

The-ptan—itself-—at—pages—00183—through-06: i rst intekligence—agents
inside Cuba; collecting intelligence from '€ub: j 2 Ehe pL tates; counterfeiting
ration cards and currency inside of Cuba; gedgraph ical “Stirveys of air fields, military
installations, communications centers; attémpts to place trained agents inside the government
organizations or to defect officials "in place"; and(negotiating for British help in
contaminating lubricants and fuels to cripple Cuban transportation. "The British want to
know, 'how serious are you?', before risking their assets to help the U.S." |(00180-00187)

STAPF:
di Genova
DATE:

SOURCE: Program review by Brig. Gen.
on the Cuba Project (00180-00187)

FILE:

Lansdale, Mar 2, 1962

June 30, 1975


9 abed. TiLe0¢ce:plo0d GGe0s MH

: ((a)

AHIAS 8 a
, . Des of Ws GUMENT
_ - . RE cao Y 3
NO OBJECTION on syeewd ps swe nl?

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

ip

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
(continuation)

OCCURRENCE: Carp 3

Lansdale noted that the CIA had concluded that its realistic role should be to at least

create the illusion of a popular movement, to win external support for it, to improve

CIA operational capability, and to help create a Climate which will permit-provocative
actions in support of a shift to overaction. Lansdale wanted them to reevaluate

to see whether or not they could make a greater effort. An outline of what the 33 tasks
are for each of the entitities involved then follows in Lansdale's memo. The memorandum
notes that the President directed that the Chief of Operations conduct the project through
the appropriate organizations and departments of the government. In this regard the memo
notes "Also, CIA apparently believes that its role should be to create and expand a popular

SOURCE:

FILE:



£ ahea “TLie0zze:PIo0d cG60G AH

ECTION Zo Wood

“NO OB!

JUNCIL cary (UB)
TIONAL SECURITY COUNEE 1g NO OBJECTION TO .
WU fei aS ron eed ARDIOR

eae THIS DOCUMENT
RELEASE OF THIS
AS SAUTEED 1 | 43

ERMOUNS/ENTLILES ¢ DATES: ' CATEGORIES:
a . bt .
CARD 3 | .
— Cad 3 f2

OCCURRENCE: (continued from Memo for the Special Group re: Cuba Project, Jan. 24, 1962
detectives and foreign police officials." (00106) : 7
In regard to Task #7 of General Lansdale's review this memo notes, "Moreover, the development
of a resisitence movement will not remain controllable, so that operational time tables
produced during the next four weeks can serve only as guides for a proposed sequence. of
actions." (00107) . : ;
The memorandum notes that six men to form the initial nucleus for work for inside Cuba

have been assessed in depth. Fifteen locations have been -selected-as-suitable-centers—for

resistence. It was also noted that in support of State's efforts, CIA has c =
Paganda_operations including a number_of mas ions i \ 7

/

!

SOURCE: STARE:



@ ebeq Ti.e02ze:plo0ed Gceos AH

ON on Hum

NO OBJECT

me CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
a AN t /' 6 /4 RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
. kee 7 [nlaa
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
be eee . Special Group Augmented
LANSDALE , . “yd MONGOOSE

tein

Mar 13, 1962

CUBA

ee Carl La 2.
OCCURRENCE: The planning for Operation MONGOOSE was prepared on a format of ‘eparate

planning for each department and agency involved. Revised planning along that line was
submitted with this memorandum. Activities already approved were marked with an asterisk.
Approved were dispatching one intelligence agent operation to a key area selected by the
CIA, (‘Many of the agents infiltrated into Cuba will be trained for paranilitary skills

as well as intelligence collection,...However, CIA has noted that, once the agents aré
inside Cuba, they cannot be controlled effectively from outside Cuba, although every effort
will be made to attempt such control.") (00207), Carribbean Admissj er Cpa-Locka,
Florida. Periodic intelligence estimates, continued negotiating for elp in con-
taminating locamotive lubricants, two teams of agents dispatched to Cuba approved for
March 16-31, 1962, develop intelligence potential of Cuban "colonies" in U.S., develop
additional interrogation centers in other areas by 31 March 1962 in South America and

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special. Group Augmented? Fy] GRAPH (Wy
from Lansdale re: Institutional Planning, Operation ‘MON SE “(di Genova
13.March 1962 (00206-00213) id ily a as wJely 1, 1975


6 a6eaq TLLEosZEe:PII0d sceos AH

coco AN
NOOBJECTION a
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

CATEGORIES: Zo
! Special Group Augmented

s ROUP-AUEMENTED; “MONGOOSE, | June 20, 1962 |
Clamdai TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- | duty~3+=-2962 | MONGOOSE
TRICK, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER, June-125-4962 |
Chote) RUSK, KOHLER, “HURWITCH ; une 22, 196
CCURRENCE:

Due to reports of popular unrest, political strife, and economic disruptions
inside Cuba, it was suggested that the Special Group Augmented consider the value of ,
having an SNIE on Cuba made in the immediate future. The CIA has agreed as a matter of
priority to reach a stage in the interrogation of Pedro Roig where he can be surfaced
(EQRMAKE PUBLIC: CHANCES, 6 AACN Mc onlin Seno PSEA ti ONSE ADA NStE LAL TuAme hi CHU MEIONS:
For operational effectiveness, the CIA has selected a new area in Cuba for its initial
radio broadcasts from a submarine for "Voice of Cuba." The Navy states that the new
area is feasible and State has concurred in the theme and content of the broadcast. They

will take place around the end_of the_month.__No proposals_for_actions_by_the Department
of State have been submitted since the appointment of State's special representative,
Mr. Hurwitch. They are expected on June 22, 1962. :

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STAFF:
from Lansdale re: Progress, Operation MONGOOSE, 20 June 1962
(00397-00398) ; '

PILE:

di Genova
DATE: July 1, 1975



OT ahed Tiieoece:PIood GGeO0G AH

r 0 OBIZCTION
NATIONAL SECunaTy COUNCIL

PERSONS/ENTITIES: © CATEGORIES: YY
ROUP—-AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE, | Special Group Augmented

Clansdalé) , TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL-

ICK, MCCONE, REK, LEMNITZER,
ROIG) RUSK, KOHLER, CHURWITCH
CCURRENCE?:

Juty—-34,-1962 ee
lune 22, 1962

Due to reports of popular unrest, political strife, and economic disruptions
inside Cuba, it was suggested that the Special Group Augmented consider the value of
having an SNIE on Cuba made in the immediate future. The CIA has agreed as a matter of
priorit to reach a stage in the i ogation of Pedro Roig where he can be surfaced

FOULS, ~ohettoies ue (Gobet, Coumminule cinerea alonis eroaviaee Juste (ATC TAUCAN TONS?
For operational effectiveness, the CIA has selected a new area in Cuba for its initial
radio broadcasts from a submarine for "Voice of Cuba." The Navy states that the new
area is feasible and State has concurred in the theme and content of the broadcast. They

will_take-place—around—the—end_of—the—-month.——No proposals—for— actions—by—the~Depar-tment.
of State have been submitted since the appointment of State's special representative,
Mr. Hurwitch. They are expected on June 22, 1962.

SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STAFF:
from Lansdale re: Progress, Operation MONGOOSE, 20 June 1962
(00397-00398) ' di Genova

PILE: DATE: July 1, 1975


Tr shed TeLeozze:PIoed seeos AN

. aceon ae

. a) oguech’s} guncl-
ae LgEcuaT ye?
aTionnL SE Beh —

f) it I" .

PERSONS/ENTITIFS:

‘PATRICK MCCONE; ORERCLEMNEEZERS

OCCURRENCE :
“assessments of Operation MON
- considering in deciding on a

four possible future courses

SOURCE: Memorandum for
from Lansdale re: Progress
(90428-00430)

FILE:

which notes that f'Inteltigence Has]
ining Cubancait—défeiise—pe

Guru A dy NSA
oh wk gage
peti Pt

dea be marteed
SECRET SPOKE

July 11, 1962 |
,

future course of action (We
quotes #NSA)
ro:

of action) ."" Memo

Notice to Special Group that operational representatives ar
GOOSE. These will cover among other things

DATES: | CATEGORIFS: wa
Special Group Auginented °

MONGOOSE

e preparing
"factors worth
have a working definition of

i ence problems
t cal

. pec

the Special Group Augmented
OPERATION MONGOOSE 11 July 1

2

STAFF:

962

DATE: di Genova
July 2, 1975


eT ahed “TLLe0ece:ploed Gce0s AH

ciAHAS 8 Mee
DECLASSI eee et
no GquecTiCN ait RELEASE ree "
on SECU COUN oo ie
‘PERSONS/ENTITIES: V DATES: CATEGORIES:
LANSDALE, HARVEY, MONGEDSRS SDHGHAL [July 24, 1962

MONGOOSE
GROUP-AUCMENTED™ Special Group Augmented

CARD ONE OF TWO

OCCURRENCE: As to Phase I, CIA staff personnel@upmeoe wee are devoting full time to this
effort. "A very large number of additional personnel are devoting part time efforts to
Operation MONGOOSE." Hard intelligence coverage of Cuba has been developed. Fifty-nine
controlled agents inside of Cuba exist. Not so successful on infiltrating intelligence
reporting in resistence cadre teams. Failure to meet the original schedule of team in-

filtrations~primarity-was—due—to—two-factors:— (a)—Lack_of-poliey—approval_by—higher

authority to make any extensive utilization of Department of Defense personnel and support."
"Had we been permitted to mount a more intensive and agressive, the original infilitration
schedule probably would have been met, possibly exceeded.'' The speed and extent of future
infiltration teams for resisitence purposes into Cuba "will of course depend upon policy
approvals by higher authority and the amount of support we can count on thereunder."

"It is our opinion that there is an excellent chance such a revolt could be incited

SOURCE: Memorandum for Lansdale from William K. Harvey star:
re: Operation MONGOOSE--end of Phase I, July 24, 1962 (90452- DATE: di Genova

P9488) PATE? July 2, 1975


“eL afea TLLEazZe:pIO0q sceéoc BH

1}
oes wo C (8)
RELEASE (OH ANEVOR
AS SANIT 76 ENT
NO OBJECTION kee alalas |

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL :

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: ©

i
Gen. Lansdale i Y
William K. Harvey . 8/7/62 | SPECIAL GROUP AUGMENTE]

OPERATION MONGOOSE

OCCURRENCE:
————=="_ Harvey states that the estimated cost of CIA in terms of personnel
assigned full-time to Operation Mongoose would have to be increased to at least

(if dage two of Mongoose went into effect) and t! e estimated fiscal budgets
for 1963 and 1964 would have to be increased to ove million.

SOURCE: Aug 8, 1962 memo from Gen Lansdale to the STAVE? Wallach
Special Group Augmented (00587)
; July 2, 1975

FILLE: DATE:



_ FT abed ‘TLLeoZze :ploog GG60s MH

am B)
ewe
ae Goh
qnensge cnn poe

0
ae wr EDP

~ NO oaIzcTiON ba. yor?
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL -
Mf feat

PERSONS /ENTITIES:

MONGOOSE =

was to be done at the time of shipment. The program met with some success. MCCONE _
could not recall where the actual sabotage of the purchased equipment took place (22-23).

SOURCE: STAFF:

McCone, Testimony, 6/6/75 Rhea

FILE: DATE; 6/27/75


st eBea’ TiLeogzéipIo0q cceos MH

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

NO OBISCTION 2 /usA Conumsrce— Be A nd GM ib
Rilinat in yg

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
HELMS, LANSDALE, ,:

DATES: CATEGORIES:
Feb. 1, 1962 Special Group Augmented 4
MONGOOSE

OCCURRENCE: Memo for Richard Helms from Gen. Lansdale concerning oe cover. The memo

alludes to a conversation on the previous day, Jan. 31, 1962, about NSM cover for the

Cuba Project. It indicdtes ‘that Cuba cover is top priority. It indicated that this was not
possibly known to the members of the United States Intelligence Board. The problem seemed to
be to be able to decide how much of ‘NS: NST (Nationale Se ty Agene WS) assets were needed to
provide cover for the Cuban project.”

esl)
“ONO

TOP SEC ET

SOURCE? Memorandum for Richard Helms from Brig. Gen. Lans- [Saer STARE:
dale, dated Feb. 1, 1962 (00122) di Genova

a . 7
PILE: — June 29, .1975


9T abed TLLe0Zze:PlI0d Sc60c AH

AS NY
Ko 03s ayECTION te anand ou a ot
woo some ofio

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

MURPHY DULLES

MERCHANT MONGOOSE oo,
GRAY ulyfs9 SPECIAL GROUP ~

Special group meeting on November 4, 1959, discuss the "Cuba Propaganda Project".
1. Mr. Dulles “went into details as to the possible location of radio transmitters"
commenting that since the discussion of the program last week the situation had grown

more critical." 2. Mr. Gray said "he was sure (the project) would ith hi
level approval provided that any action taken was acceptable to the, I" :

SOURCE: STAPF:

Memorandum for record dated 4 Nov 1959, Minues of
FILE: Special Group Meeting. pate; KELLEY

6/27/75"


‘LY aBea. TLL€0zZe:PIO0G =sse0s AH

ecrionto )

CIA HAS NO 084
ICATION AND/OR
aE ASE OF THiS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
lee aha! 93
NO OBJECTION ar aye as
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
fy) 16/94
PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
MERCHANT ,
GATES MONGOOSE /
GRAY Nov. 18,1959 SPECIAL GROUP
DULLES
OCCURRENCE:

° peaaTion

On November /18, 1959, the Special Group Meeting, the row» "agreed with the 'Cuba
Propaganda i/as outlined by Mr. DULLES. DULLES asked

These broadcasts were to be attributed "such that Cubans would be talking to Cubans"
and the broadcasting equipment would not be adeqaute to reach other parts of Latin
America. However, DULLES pointed out "we are using the capability to place unattributed

~ propaganda and publications throughout the area..."

SOURCE:

6/27/75 ©


9T aed. TiLeozze:ploed cseos BH

()

cuanasno osuectionto (2)

SIFICATION AND/OR
. tee OF THS DOCUMENT
‘ AS SANITI
NO OBJECTION 22 syerl bee 3/AB
~ NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
MO /eft4
PERSONS/ENTITIES: “y DATES: CATEGORIES:
MERCHANT . . '
GRAY Dec. 9, 1959 SPECIAL GROUP Y :
IRWIN MONGOOSE.

On December 9, 1959, the Special Group continued discussion of the clandestine

broadcasting to Cuba. Mr. BISSELL explained that it would not_be le to place
the transmitter in id there

was discussion of ee U.S. islands in the general area, .
the Canal Zone, and

"Tt ed that any radio broadcasting fro would undoubtedly be used.

; further his fight with TRUJILLO, but the group agreed that this was
not necessarily a drawback. "

SOURCE: :
Minutes of Special Group Meeting, December 9, 1959

KELLEY
6/27/75



6T abeg TLLeozze 'PIg0d SG60S AH

a) Ogle ZOTION 0 w

: “¢ COUNCIL
MAL SECURIT
woh so
ic GiSCIOs

nto pebli tor

Dod objection 526, “exc

No suant 10 oPL.4 ‘ Cw yD

N. ‘ c
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: — DATES: CATEGORIES:

«SPECIAL GROUP AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE, | June 27, 1962 } Special Group Augmented a
TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- Sree" 2I 2 TSH 2 MONGOOSE
PA > MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER difez

ler’ Cag é fri-23 hk Ly
OCCURRENCE: One infiltration team introduced into Oriente Province on June 4 and 5, 1962
reported that Cuban security measures made operations in that area difficult. Raul
Castro on June 25 reported that the four had been captured and two had been executed, but
to this date the report is not accepted as fact. June 21-22, 1962 a Marine operation
to emplace a cache of arms sanrseattuners was accomplished without incident. The defector,
g : e he reeuba

oO
a

’ FILE:

ecm 3 = BeubaneGaspersonnelsabroads Effective—July—L,
teen. B. T. Harris, vu. will replace Brig. Gen. Craig as DOD operations
representative.
cre _
wert a er sy é
SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STAFF:

from Lansdale re: Operation MONGOOSE, June 27, 1962 (00399-
00400)

di Genova
DATE:

July 1, 1975


_ Oz, abea TLLEOZSEPIOOG GGé6OS MH

NO OBJECT!
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL . sjeclossr®
i iff 6 [ 4 ; Plo DOD core 02 pag, or
. : : ; guar to
mye oe
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: va CATEGORIES: o
June 27, euileé Special Group Augmented \” .

SPECIAL GROUP AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE,
ISDALE,) TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- 2 MONGOOSE
> MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER aifer

Harris Cray bfri-23/er

OCCURRENCE: One infiltration team introduced into Oriente Province on June 4 and 5, 1962
reported that Cuban security measures made operations in that area difficult. Raul

Castro on June 25 reported that the four had been captured and two had been executed, but
to this date the report is not accepted as fact. June 21-22, 1962 a Marine operation

to emplace a cache of arms and demolitions was accomplished without incident. The defector,
Roig, (USEDermroyprovidemanes or other Cul ‘personne Effective July 1,

g-as—DOD- operations:

1962 Brig. Gen. T. Harris, U.S. Army will replace Brig. Gen->
representative.
am wf
mare fl
SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STAFF:
from Lansdale re: Operation MONGOOSE, June 27, 1962 (00399- di Genova
00400) DATE:

FILE: July 1, 1975


Te abea TLLEOSZE! PII0g GG60s MH

9 OW)
CIES HOOPS. oBIOR
: fe . : DECLASST QOCUMENT
. a RELEASE Cr IS ~
cc] : sechogul®
; NO OBJECTION o> per : , fic ginctose
COUNCIL ; jection tC Poe” except lor
TIONAL SECU! ITY . : {No DOD O "402-526; :
NA i fof? - pursuam oP be (22)
Mac 2
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
SPECIAL GROUP AUGMENTED, MONGOOSE, | June 27, 1962 } Special Group Augmented
LA TAYLOR, JOHNSON, GIL- r 2 MONGOOSE
PA K, MCCONE, RFK, LEMNITZER aifer
Haer’s © Cray 6 [ri-23 ke z

OCCURRENCE: One infiltration team introduced into Oriente Province on June 4 and 5, 1962
reported that Cuban security measures made operations in that area difficult. Raul

Castro on June 25 reported that the four had been captured and two had been executed, but
to this date the report is not accepted as fact. June 21-22, 1962 a Marine operation

to emplace a cache of arms and demolitions was accomplished without incident. The defector,
Roig, @iasebepun: to. provide namesso Mother, chban_ G"zapersonnelsal @9 Effective July 1,

1962 Brig. Gen. B.T. Harris, UTS. Akmy will replace +g:—Gen-Cr: g—as—DOD-operations
representative.

geno Fl
SOURCE: Memorandum for the Special Group Augmented STAFF:
from Lansdale re: Operation MONGOOSE, June 27, 1962 (00399- di Genova
00400) DATE:

FILE: July 1, 1975


4pIo0q GS60S MH

Ze ahea TLLE0zze.

ye
na ORIECTION. ” on

ain UN
wnt aid ° ;

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
~SPECTAL-GROUP-AU ‘july 12, 1962 i Special Group Augmented Nae

-MONGOOSESCTAYLOR.YREK) COINSON,)

GILPATRICK, (MCCONE,) CARTER,

20-1962 | MONGOOSE
pril 9,
; A (carp ONE OF ee)
OCCURRENCE:

LEMNITZER, CLANSDALED CLINE, PARROTT

Lansdale briefed the group on numbers of agents in Cuba. Air resupply
proposal submitted by CIA "should be deferred pending broader review of the entire
situation." Taylor noted if urgent need for air supply proposal could be made to the
Special Group Augmented at any time. "Mr. McCone emphasized that no high-level penetra-
tions of the Cuban government have yet been attained."' "The Attorney General inquired
about the status of popular support for Castro, and also the possibility of a revolt

against him." Lansdale replied, “"There_is_no_rallying_point—for-active—oppesition-!
The AG and Johnson emphasize need to obtain hard intelligence on subversive activities
by Castro in the hemisphere. A complete review of MONGOOSE was set toward the end of
July. Taylor emphasized need for summaries of results "anda statement of future al-
ternatives open to the U.S. should be develoned." kein Cavin AORN MOMASANTAT SN ze

taf
SUUNGET Memo for the record, Minutes of the Special PSTAVF: (continued)
Group (Augmented) meeting 12 July 1962 re: Operation MONGOOSE,
(90031-00032) ; . di Genova

‘ DATE: July 2, 1975
