[157-10014-10228 (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: T2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: — 157-10014-10228

RECORD SERIES: | MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —07-M-133

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FRO!
TO:
TITL
06/00/1975
81

SUBJECTS :
BISSELL, RICHARD
LUMUMBA, ASSASSINATION
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATIOD Declassified
RESTRICTION 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/31/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : CC Box 133

woul i
HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 1


Date : 08/08/95
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

SSCIA
157-10014-10228

RECORDS SERIES MISCELLANEOUS. RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER 07-M-133

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

SSCIA

06/00/75
81

LUMUMBA, ASSASSINATION
cIA

BISSELL, RICHARD

DOCUMENT TYPE. : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CC Box 133

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 2


CONGO

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 3



ARROYO, GINELL LG DATES: CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, William a
©'DORNELL, Justin LUNUMBA (__--

STSSELL. Richard,

a -
9 OCCURRENCE:

BARVEY testified that he worked with a man called JUSTINONMMMELL {eebom eg & AF

4 ehhttet chy
Bhat O'DONNELL came to him and said that he had been approached by RICHARD BISSELL, who

fas then the Deputy Director of Plans (DD/P) to undertake an operation in the Conro, one
80 the objectives of which was the elimination of PATRICE LUMUMBA, HARVEY testified that
&l' DONNELL told him that he had declined to undertake this assignment.
L

n . . ,

HARVEY testified that he subsequently had a conversation with BISSFLL, in which BISSELL
Stated that he had requested O'DONNELL to undertake such an operation. (9-10) .
i

* HARVEY testified that he did not know about any steps undertaken on behalf. of the Arency
in connection with any proposals to eliminate LUMUMBA. (10) ,

SOURCE? “HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975 (pp. 9-10) STAPF?” Rhea

FILE: :

— DATE? 30.6.75
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
Dillon Congo ~~
Lamumba
OCCURRENCE:

On May 21, 1975 in an affidavit to the Rockefeller Commission Mr. Douglas Dillon stated
that in late July or early August of 1960 in attended a meeting in the Pentagon in which
the overall Congo problem was discussed. He state: "During the discussion, which covered
a great variety of matters, my recollection is that a question regarding a possibility of
an assassination attempt against Lamumba was briefly raised. The CIA representative indi-
cated that the agency did not undertake this sort of operation. This ended consideration
of this subject. With this one exception I never heard any discussion of assassination
attempts against anyone."
1 ” i 5

Affidavit. dated May 21, 1975 of Mr. C. Douglas Dillon to the
Rerkefeller Commission

SOURCE:

Kelley

DATE:
—— June 30, 1975



PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘Top sect
BISSELL, Richard - 4 i oC.) CONGO /

ROSTOW, Walt
O'DONNELL
LUMUMBA

OCCURRENCE;

BISSELL testified that he told WALT ROSTOW that he had taken the initiative to instruct
O'DONNELL to plan for the assassination of LUMUMBA (55).

SECRET

G ebeq 9T9ECFZE:PIO0G GGeOS AH

CATEGORIES:

BISSELL, Richard
O'DONNELL, Justin
LUMUMBA

GOTTLIEB, Sidney

CCURRENCE:

| CONGO “

BISSELL testified that he asked JUSTIN O'DONNELL to investigate the possibility of
killing LUMUMBA. (54) BISSELL does not remember the date.

BISSELL told this to O'DONNELL in connection with making plans to see SIDNEY GOTTLIEB.

(Note: From this transcript , it is impossible to tell whether these were BISSELL's plans
to see GOITLIEB or O'DONNELL's plans. ).

SOURCE? BISSELL, IT, 1.54

FILE: | Daze: 28.6.75


PHNCUNWO/ EM Libis DALLOS H CATEGUNLBOS | POP SiChisl

3ISSELL, Richard

;
: 5 Giolt | CONGO - Authorization for Assassinatio:
MUNA, Patrice . volt) | Plotting Against LUMUMBA””
THITE HOUSE . |

OCCURRENCE:

BISSELL testified that no one authorized him to tell O'DONNELL to take steps toward as-
sassinating LUMUMBA. (54) He did not inform the WHITE HOUSE and, to the best of his
knowledge, no one informed the WHITE HOUSE that this assignment had been made. (54)
BISSELL said that the initiative probably came from himself. (55) BISSELL emphasizes
that he did not "seek to assassinate" (55) LUMUMBA, but rather "told a member of the
Clandestine Service to make plans and develop the capability so to do if it were ap-
proved and ordered." (55) He recognized that it would have to "have approval at the
highest level of government ” (55)

SOURCE:

DISSCLLTE

DATE: q/a] 457

PERSONS/ENTITIES: ~ DATES:

ocd)

CATEGORIES: ‘op scorer

CONGO 4 :

BISSELL, Richard
O'DONNELL
LUMUMBA

OCCURRENCE:

BISSELL testified that O'DONNELL told him that he did not want to investigate the possi-
bility of assassinating LUMUMBA and said, "that he thought it was an inappropriate action,
and that the desired object could be accomplished better in other ways." (54)

SOURCE: BISSELL, IL, p37 STAFF: Baron

DATE: 28.6.75

FILE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 6


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

PRESIDENT EISENHOWER August 25, 196 Lamumba ~

MR. GRAY . Special Group

MR. DULLES Presidential Authorization
LAMUMBA :

OCCURRENCE:

On August 25, 1960 the Special Group heard an outline of "three operational lines
that we are following and mounting an anti-Lamumba campaign in the Congo.'' These
lines included various political efforts and "The group agreed that the action
contemplated is very much..in order.". .

There was also discussion which might be construed to refer to_an assassination

attempt: 'Mr. Gray commented, however, that his associates /The President?/
had expressed extremely: strong feelings on the necessity for very
straightforward action in this situation, and he wondered whether the
plans as outlined would be sufficient to accomplish this. Mr. Dulles

replied that he had taken the comments referred to seriously and

SOURCE: rl AS me STAFF:
———=" Minutes of We p fr 25.pn960 Bob Kelley
Ay Mok
FILE: Cage aye _ DATE: June 29, 1975
PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES
a :
Lamumba

Special Group
Presidential Authorization

OCCURRENCE; CARD 2

and had every intention of proceeding as vigorousl i i
permits or requires, but added that he mist necessarily pat teens

in a position of interpreting instructions of this kind within the
bounds of necessity and capability. It was finally agreed that plannin
for the Congo would not necessarily rule out ‘consideration’ of an ‘8
particular kind of ae which might contribute to getting rid SE

Lamumba."” (emphasis added

STAFF:
Bob Kelley

DATE:
—— June 29, 1975

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 7


PERSONS/ENTITIFS: : DATES: CATEGORIES:

Pissean

O! Posraedh Fall 1960 CONGO
EXECUTIVE ACTION

BISSELL testified that he "very definitely" (p. 75) asked
O'DONNELL to investigate the possibility of killing
LUMUMBA.

BISSELL said that this could be an example of Executive

Action capability but when pressed on the contradiction
between the dates of late 1960 for his conversation with
O'DONNELL and May 1961 (or early 1961) for his establishment
of the Executive Action capability, he said that he did not
_ remember whether his assignment to O'DONNELL was part of the

Executive Action program, (p. 76).
SOURCE: —— oe ce
b DATE: Cae
TERT Gisea tetany, ssob Naf * hye a
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: GATEGORIES:
KASAYUBU Lamumba
Gow. HARRIMAN 1560 » Speci ak Group

pu “LES, JF.

OCCURRENCE:

On September 1, 1960 the Special Group discussed the suggestion to provide
PRESIDENT KSAVUBU with an airplane superior to the one provided by the Soviets.
MR. DULLES expressed a number of objections to the proposal.

"Mr..Merchant noted that the question of whether Governor Harriman should offer
to find an advisor for Lamumba has been put up to the Secretary General of the
U.N., for the decision would have to be made in the first instance."

SOURCE: STAFF:

Minutes af Snecial Groim meetino Sentemher 1 1041 Rah Kallav

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 8


PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MR. PARROTT
MADAME BLOUIN

DATES: / CATEGORIES:
October 20, 19h0 CONGO ’
Special Group

OCCURRENCE:

On October 20, 1960, the Special Group heard a report by MR. PARROTT “about
the operation in connection with Madame Blouin, noting that her appearance
in Switzerland could receive some publicity for next week's meeting."

SOURCE:
Minutes of Special Group meeting Oct. 20, 1960

STAFF:
Bob Kelley

DATE:

FILE: Cage June 29, 1975

PERSOUS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

MR. GRAY Sept. 8, 1960 Special Group

MR. MERCHANT Presidential. Authorization
MR. DOUGLAS Congo .~

MR. DULLES

LAMUMBA

OCCURRENCE:

On September 8, 1960 ata Special Group meeting the minutes recorded the follow-
ing: "There was a brief discussion of developments in the Congo and the

possibilities of effective action there. Mr. Gray said that he hoped
that Agency people in the field are fully aware of the top-level feeling
in Washington that vigorous action would not be amiss."

No other material on the CONGO appeared in the minutes other than the above
quotation.

SOURCE: EE A Te
Minutes of Snecial Groun meetineSevti. 8. 1960

wt ;

STAFF:
Bob Kelley

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 9


PRNOUNSJENT LYE LES? DATES: CATEGORIES:

KASAVUBU x October 27, 1940 Speciai Group
D ’
ve ica Hamaagskyou. Congo,’ ™
AMUN)
MERCHANT

OCCURRENCE:

On October 27, 1960 the Special Group read a paper outlining " the proposal

to aid Colonel Mobutu in working toward the eventual formation of a moderate
government..."".

The Special Group approved the proposal with the understanding that the program
envisages complete recognition of Kasavubu as the legitimate head of state and
that Mobutu would remain in the background."

Mr. Merchant reported on discussions with Hammarskjold: "He has swung away
from a feeling that Lamumba must be removed, to a feeling that is the legitimate

prime minister and that we much live with him although acknowledging that his
title is somewhat clouded."

TAFF?

! t
ing ,Octoher 27, 1960 Bob Kelle
oe Fy) a j : ”

FILE: Cage DATE: June 29, 1975

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

BISSELL Special Group

DULLES Congo
LAMUMBA

OCCURRENCE:

On November 10, 1960, at the Special Group meeting
that we are making
ofa pro-Soviet Lamumba government, the complications arising from a militant
Katanga i dependence movement"’..Mr. Dulles said that ho ad discussed the Congo ,
during his recent visit to had told him that ,

they would h, available for a contingency of this kind, and he said that
the U.S. and views on the Congo seemed quite close." .

; € "Mr. Bissell mentioned briefly
certain contingency plans for the Congo against the possibility

TAFE;

Bob Kelley
DATE! tna 90) dane

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 10


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET .
BISSELL, Richard late 1960

EXECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIFLE

TWEEDY, Bronson
> GENERAL 'T HEM iS
LONGO

WIROGUE

OCCURRENCE:

BISSELL said that the philosophy described by the Chief of the CIA Africa Division, probably
BRONSON TWEEDY, in a memorandum in late 1960, was probably applicable to matters within the
scope of Project ZRRIFLE. The memorandum recommended the agent WIROGUE in these terms:

"He is indeed aware of the precepts of right and wrong, but if he is given an assignment,
which may be morally wrong in the eyes of the world, but necessary because his case officer
ordered him to carry it out, then it is right, and he will dutifully undertake appropriate
action for its execution without pangs of conscience. Ina word, he can rationalize all
actions" (59).

BISSELL, II STAFF: Baron

DATE: 28.6.75

PERSONS/ENTITIES: C \TEGORIES:
1

6) Vounaed

Pisserd

OCCURRENCE:

ty judgment is that before Mr. O'DONNELL ever got there -
ne assassination plan had been decided to be inappropriate
an¢ unnecessary and had been dropped." (p. 79)

. : . *
ais is BISSELL'S reason for saying that he was surprised ye
hat the virus appeared in viow of Mr. O'DONNELL's positio
of refusing to assassinate a leader, ; — "

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 11


PERSONS/ENTITIES:

BISSELL testifies that he does not remember ordering any
virus sent down to the Congo, nor does he remember any
conversations with the person in charge of producing virus
capability in relation to the Congo (p. 77).

SOURCE: a STAPF:
Easseod So a Bown
PILE: DATE:
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
HELMS, RICHARD :
O'DONNELL, JUSTIN i¢él LAMUMBA
BISSELL
LAMUMBA
OCCURRENCE: HELMS was’ told by the committee that INT! had testified tha

he had come to HELMS' office and told HELMS that BISSELL had asked him to kill LAMUMBA

but that he wasn't going to do it and that HELMS had agreed that he should not do-it. _

HELMS testified that he did not recall the conversation at all (155). At that time
HELMS was serving as BISSELL's number.two man, Chief of Operations. HEIMS testified that
he would not necessarily have known about the poison if it had been sent to the Congo
because the Deputy Director could have made his own arrangements without going through
his underlings (156). :

SOURCE:
Helms Testimony, 6/13/75

PTTR.

DATES: CATEGORIES:
146 ( - “
Bisse ed Com i
ENCE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 12


FENOUNS/ENLTLVLES: DATES: / CATEGORIES:

Bundy June 21, 1961 Congo
Bowles
Parrott

OCCURRENCE:
On June 21, 1961, Thomas Parrott wrote a memorandum for the record, subject: "Covert
Action in the Congo." The memorandum stated "the Congo paper was presented at

the Special Group June 8 and deferred because of the request for an overall
briefing on political action. On June 10, Mr. Bissell obtained approval for Mr.
Bundy for part of the program, i.e., an expenditure of $20-30,000 for support

of Bulikango (equateur) and Bomboko. Memorandum also notes that the “parliament
program" was given "full approval by Mr. Bundy and “at the Special Group meeting
on June 22, Mr. Bundy stated that the Congo paper had been personally approved
by the President."

&s :
SOURCE: Memorandum for the tecotd by Thomas A

dated June 21, 1961,

FILE: DATE: June 29, 1975
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES: nop sncrep
SSELL, Richard c EXECUTIVE ACTION
iN reb, (iG/ | CONGO 1
WEY
PLE

CCURRENCE:

3SELL testified that he did not have any personal recollection of who QJWIN was, although
says that he probably was informed at the time if HARVEY recruited him for ZRRIFLE (58).

SOURCE:

BISSELL, II STAFF? Baron

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 13


PERSONS/ENTITIES:
CONGO
QJWIN
LUMUMBA, Patrice
BRECKENRIDGE, Sdott
HELMS , Richard <—
CCURRENCE:
CONGO: In discussing the recruitment of the agent QJWIN by the EXECUTIVE ACTION program "for
use in a special operation in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA)" (38), the
ribbon copy, which is the only copy in existence, has the phrase "(the assassination of PATRIC
LUMUMBA)" scratched out. SCOTT BRECKENRIDGE indicated to the Committee that this was done by
RICHARD HELMS when he read the report.

DATES: [ CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET
LEADS

2(60 | logo 4

Why?

SOURCE: I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38 STAFF: Baron

PILE: DATE: 28.6.75

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
HELMS, RICHARD LAMUMBA

O'DONNELL, JUSTIN

HELMS stated that he did not wocal HavGRs been involved in assassination attempts against
LAMUMBA but he thought he might very well have been (154). HELMS did not know why
LAMUMBA might have been slated for assassination, although he did remember that when
LAMUMBA was alive many of his followers were ‘opposed to the CIA and that after his death
allegations were widespread in the black community that the CIA had killed LAMUMBA (154).
HELMS testified that at the time of publicity about possible CIA involvement in LAMUMBA's
death he recalled making inquiries to find out if there was even a remote relationship and

was told there was not (155). ql uP SECE ; 7
Dey

SOURCE:

Helns Testimony, 6/13/75

FILE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 14


PERSONS/ENTITIES ; DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET

'
BISSELL, Richard O'DONNELL, Justin | FER | EXEWTWE AcTanl Q -
HARVEY, William BRECKENRTLGE , Ss. May 1961 condo val Bet / ZERIFCE
EE HELMS, Richard _ . 7
SILVER, Arnold * QJwins

LUMUMBA, Patrice
OCCURRENCE:

The EXECUTIVE ACTION program authorized by BISSELL and run by WILLIAM HARVEY "came to be known
as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD
SILVER for use in a special operation in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA) to be
run by JUSTIN O'DONNELL. (O'DONNELL made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in
that assassination attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted.)" (38)

NOTE: In the copy of the I.G. REPORT provided to the Conmittee, which was, according, to
EARMAN's cover memorandum the ribbon copy, which was the only text of the report in existence ,¢).

phrase in the above paragraph "(the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA)" was crossed out. S,
BRECKENRIDGE indicated to the C

he read the report. Why?

onmittee that this phrase was crossed out by RICHARD HELMS when

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE: :
- PERSONS/ENTITLES: DATES! | TOP. SECRET
aRREPES, O'DONNELL, Justin May 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION
QUIN - BISSELL, Richard’

SILVER, Arnold
LUMUMBA, Patrice

OCCURRENCE:

“The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

P £2
| EREECE wv

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION ~tusguempe- program came to be known as EVER eee ee cecial opera-
an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD SILVER or Se Se MILD
tion “in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA), to be run by Boy eirotion
(O'DONNELL made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted " ate

attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted).

SOURCE: - 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

RILF : DATE: 28.6.75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 15


PERSUONS/ENPIL IES :
BiSSELL, Richard GOTTLIEB, Sidney
HARVEY
WHITE HOUSE
SILVER, Arnold

CCURRENCE:

DATES: | CATEGORIES: ‘YOP SECRET

February 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION /zy2ayry o=
(HARVEY's rough, CASTRO RIFLE

estimate) fon rt COMEO

the
BISSELL assipns to HARVEY / developing of "an EXECUTIVE ACTION capability; i.e.
a general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.’ (37)

"HARVEY's notes quote BISSELL as saying, 'The WHITE HOUSE has twice urged me to create such

a capability.' BISSELL recalls discussing the question of developing a general capability
with HARVEY." (37)

"HARVEY says that BISSELL had already discussed certain aspects of the problem with ARNOLD
SILVER and with SIDNEY GOTTLIEB." (37-38).

; (continued) carl Lo4 2.
I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-38 STAFF: Baron

SOURCE:

FILE:

DATE: 28.6.75

taTia

SL°9°8@ salva
*196T TuOdwy “O'T  :g7ouUNOS

uored STAVES.

ig “OMELSVO 98yeu’ eS) 0: d ‘OD-UO Ui oy’ Oo UOT 4UAT nouytmM gnq 4daou0e

8 out 4 JO ul wu 4 TH 4
qeuTssesse OF Ue Buy Ul

exaust dus uo ATIN SW “dW pegetaq eu, “TIHSsld UdTM NOLLOV SALLNOUXA JO quawdoTaaep

auq BUTSSNOSTP TITAS SeM AQAMVH OTTUM pue ‘Surqeeu TeTITUT spur deqze ATAWOYS OUT SWOT

AM4+ sayy s 59
“(gf) AaTTTqedeo NOLLOV AATLNOAXA 249 ZutdoTeaep UT UHATIS Pesm AYAUVH

(T preo wory penuyjuoo) TAONqWHNIIO

TEATS CuFTST

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 16


5 —

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

CATEGORIES:
i
Lumumba a4 f !
Colby . 2/ (2 I¢/ | og WIN
! Lumumba
i
OCCURRED

Corby testified:

Q. J. Win was asset who was consideréd for effort to assassinate Lumumba,
which never took place (Tr. 108)

SOURCE: : STAPF?
Testimony of Wa. Colby, 5/23/75

FILE: DATE
Sereno en none en IL2AT3.
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: op seca
CARPE, O'DONNELL, Justin f e
> EXECUTIVE ACTION
QUWIN BISSELL, Richard February 19, 19>
SILVER, Arnold 2 ZRRIELE.
LUMUMBA, Patrice j

CUMU/I BA
OCCURRENCE:

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION ‘beige program came to be known as ZRR "LE. Its principal asset was
an agent, QUWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD SILVER for use in a special opera~
tion in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA), to be run by JUSTIN O'DONNELL
(O'DONNELL, made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in that assassination
attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted)." (38)

ancniiee Berd L : (|
yy OR, fe
SOURCE: I.G"” REPORT 1967, p. 30 STAFF: Baron

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 17


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Bowles Congo

Gilpatrick June 29, 1961 Special Group
Bundy
Dulles

OCCURRENCE:

On June 29, 1961, the minutes of the Special Group state: "Mr. Dulles said that

we feel Gizenga will probably not come to the parliamentary session in Leopoldville
unless he is sure that his forces will win. He commented that this raises a policy
question as to whether an attempt should be made to stop the assembly. Mr. Bowles
said that Mr. Bissell had raised this with him yesterday and that appropriate of-
ficials in the department are considering the matter."

SOURCE? Minutes of Special Group meeting June 29, 1961. STAFF Bob Kelley

DATE? June 29, 1975
FILE: une 29, 19

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 18


HW 50955

Docld: 32423616

Page 19

TWA Y

TBLINaAgeatw


PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES: ©
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER Lamumba

MR. GRAY Special Group : VY
MR. DULLES Presidential Authorization
LAMUMBA

CCURRENCE:

On August 25, 1960 the Special Group heard an outline of "three operational lines
that we are following and mounting an anti-Lamumba campaign in the Congo."' These
lines included various political efforts and 'The group agreed that the action
contemplated is -very -much--in order." -

There was also discussion which might be construed to refer to_an assassination

attempt: 'Mr. Gray commented, however, that his associates /The President?/
had expressed extremely strong feelings on the necessity for very
straightforward action_in this situation, and he wondered whether the
plans as outlined would be Sufficient to accomplish this. Mr. Dulles
replied that he had taken the comments referred to seriously and

SOURCE: Pe 7 STAFF:
Dec aING ip necting’ [2960 Bob Kelley

Minutes of ye

DATE: June 29, 1975

FILE: Cage

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

Lamumba
Special Group
Presidential Authorization

OCCURRENCE: carp 2

and had every intention of proceeding as vigorously as the situation
permits or requires, but added that he must necessarily put himself
in a position of interpreting instructions of this kind within the
bounds of necessity and capability. It was finally agreed that planning
for the Congo would not necessarily rule out ‘consideration’ of any
particular kind of activity which might contribute to getting rid of

. Lamumba."’ (emphasis adde

STAFF:
——— Bob Kelley

DATE:
——" June 29, 1975

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 20


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

MR. GRAY Sept. 8,°1960 Special Group

MR. MERCHANT Presidential. Authorization
MR. DOUGLAS Congo

MR. DULLES

LAMUMBA

OCCURRENCE:

On September 8, 1960 at a Special Group meeting the minutes recorded the follow-

ing: "There was a brief discussion of developments in the Congo and the
possibilities of effective action there. Mr. Gray said that he hoped
that Agency people in the field are fully aware of the top-level feeling
in Washington that vigorous action would not be amiss."

No other material on the CONGO appeared in the minutes other than the above
quotation.

: j TRgNERA & STAFF:
Minutes of Special Group meeting“Septl. 8, 1960 Bob Kelley
DATE:

June 29, 1975

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 21


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Fae rere creer aoe
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER Sept 29, 1960 MONGOOSE

ALLEN DULLES Special Group

GoopPAsted, GEN - Presidential Authorization

Carel 6 ofF

OCCURRENCE:

On September 29, 1960 the Special Group discussed a proposal for U-2 airplane
coverage of Cuba. GENERAL GOODPASTER ''told the group that the President wishes
to reserve himself any- decision which involves violation of the borders of a
foreign country by an element of the military establishment."

After a great deal of discussion "all members of the group expressed some skepti-

cism as to the complete justification for U-2 coverage based on agency requirement$'
with

There was also discussion of a proposal to permit exploration of / certain foreign

intelligence services of recruitment of limited numbers of foreign nationals to

bolster the Cuban paramilitary force and the proposal of using Americans as well.

SOURCE? raat
ae i Special &

FILE: cage weit DATE? June 29, 1975

STAPF :
Bob Kelley

ne

cting sept i29, 1960

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
Oct 6, 1960 Special Group

MR. GRAY
MR. GEHLEN

MONGOOSE '
Presidential Authorization a

Ctaaet Lb

OCCURRENCE:
On October 6, 1960 the Special Group discussed relating to CUBA:

(1) Explanation by MR. DULLES of the "abortive supply drop to resistance
elements" in Cuba.

(2) MR. DULLES! proposal “for U-2 coverage of CUBA "All the members of the group said
that they were in favor of proceeding with the coverage.'' Mr. Gray asked to have
the memorandums on which Mr. Dulles had based his presentation forwarded to him:
for use in getting the required decision.

Mr. Dulles' proposal for use of American volunteers and foreign nationals in

the Cuban operation. The group agreed Mr. Dulles could begin screening lists

of potential candidates. Dulles "added that there might be a possibility of

SOURCE: — ET STAFF:

Minutes of §

Bob Kelley

FILE: Cage DATE: June 29, 1975

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 22


PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
oe ete eed

DATES:
‘ Oct. 6, 1960

Special Group
MONGOOSE

Presidential Authorization

Caren F 2X a
including some Germans in this group and that we would talk informally

to General Gehlen about it. He emphasized that he was asking for no
Special Group approval at this time in this specific connection."

BA

OCCURRENCE:  (cant.)

SOURCE: STAFF?

Minutes of S

pecial Group meeting October 6, 1960
Cage :
FILE: &

DATE: Bob Kelley
June 29, 1975

DoclId: 32423616 Page 23

NW 50955


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
PRESDIENT KENNEDY BUNDY

ROBERT KENNEDY - MCNAMARA
HELMS Nov.12,1963 MONGOOSE A
RUSK PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL

OCCURRENCE:

At the meeting on November 12, 1963, with the President, FITZGERALD in response to a
question as to what decisions remain to be made stated that "we were looking for a
reaffirmation of the program as presented, including sabatoge and harrassment."
After outlinging a number of large scale sabatoge operations "the concensus was

that the CIA should proceed With its planning for this type of activity looking
toward January."

SOURCE:

Memorandum for record dated Nove. 12, 1963
"Cuban Operations"

STAPF:

DATE: Kelley

FILE:
wenn eee 6/28/7
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
JOHNSON
KILPATRICK
MCCONE Nov. 6,1963 MONGOOSE .
PRESIDENT KENNEDY SPECIAL GRO!
PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL
OCCURRENCE:

On November 6, 1963, higher authority (PRESIDENT KENNEDY) "disapproved all Cuban
Operations scheduled to be run into Cuba before NOvember 12. Two operations
dated November 8 and 10 are therefore disapproved. "

SOURCE: STAFF:

Kallaw

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 24


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
Dulle, Alan May 24, 1961 SPECIAL GROUP .

Cabell, General

. PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORIZATION
Bissell, Mr. - 7 !

OCCURRENCE? On May 24, 1961, at a CIA deputys' meeting Mr. Dulles "'staed that

as quite concerned about the way essentially 5412 projects’ are being handled and .
stated CIA is totally unprotected if we do not follow established procedures in discussing
and obtaining approval of these projects before implementation.' wea discussion ensued re- .
garding the special groups relationship with the various task forces appointed on a hONSC
Iran, Vietnam, Korea, and other areas together with the special groups connection wit
actions. The Director agreed that this was a problem for the special group and asked Mr.
Bissell to prepare'' a memorandum for the special group meeting on May 25.

SOURCE:

Memorandum dated May 24, 1961 titled
"Deputys Meeting" (00787)

FILE: DATE:

Kelley

PERSONS/ENTITIES; DATES: CATEGORIES:
Bundy TREK) Aug 23, 1962 | MONGOOSE
President Kennedy (Rus K] | Presidential Authorization «~~
TRILOR CMe VAWAEAY |

CCURRENCE;

On August 23, 1962, McGeorge Bundy sent a memorandum titled
Memorandum #181" to the Secretary of State, Defense, Attorne
and General Taylor -stating the President had-directed 8 stu
taken in the light of evidence of new Bloc activity in Cuba." The memorandun included the
President's direction that "The line of activity projected for Operation MONGOOSE Plan B
plus should be developed with all possible speed. Action: General Taylor."' Also listed
for study were various military alternatives to execute a decision to eliminate any in-
stallations in Cuba capable of launching nuclear attack on the U.S. and "the advantages
and disadvantages of action to liberate Cuba by blockage or invasion or other action beyonc
MONGOOSE B plus, in the context of an agravated Berlin crisis."

"National Security Action
y General, CIA Acting Director
dies and actions "to be under-

SOURCE: mE

ar
National Security Neoranda
PILE: ;

STAFF:

Kelley

| pane:
Cage ——" June 30. 1975

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 25


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

PRESIDENT KENNEDY BUNDY —_— OO

ROBERT KENNEDY MCNAMARA

HELMS Nov. 12, 1963 MONGOOSE v

RUSK . PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL
OCCURRENCE:

On November 12, 1963 FITZGERALD reported to the President at a meeting on
disaffections in the military in Cuba, stating that while the military is loyal
there are indications that some leaders might break with the regime but lack

courage and opportunity. The principal aim of the U.S. is to "get military leaders -

who have become disenchanted with the CASTRO regime to dare to talk and plot
CASTRO's downfall with each other."

SOURCE:
Memorandum for record dated Nov. 12, 1963 Kelley
"FILE: "Cuban Operations" TE: ‘
wo-ee one ——" 6/28/75

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
PRESIDENT KENNEDY BUNDY
ROBERT KENNEDY MCNAMARA
HELMS , Nov. 12,1963 MONGOOSE “ -
RUSK

PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL!

CCURRENCE:

On November 12, 1963 mr. FITZGERALD briefed President KENNEDY on sabatage and
harrassment in operationsin Cuba describing successful operations against four
installations and the belief that these operations have raised the moral of the
people in Cuba and continues to keep pressure on CASTRO adding to the growing
economic problems facing the country. , . : ;

» eR |

\ 7
a ‘

SOURCE:

STAFF:
Memorandum for record dated Nov. 12, 1963 Kelley
FILE: *~ "Cuban Operations" DATE:

6/28/75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 26


PERSONS/ENTITIFS:
eee ee ES
PRESIDENT KENNEDY BUNDY

DATES: CATEGORIES:

ROBERT KENNEDY - MCNAMARA Nov. 12, 1963} MONGOOSE
HELMS PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL
RUSK

OCCURRENCE:

On NOv. 12, 1963, Mr. Fitsgerald reported to the President that the United State

economic denial program is contributing to Cuba's declining economy, but would be -
more effective if the Canadians would be willing to cooperate.

“SOURCE: STAFF:

Memorandum for record dated Nov. 12, 1963 DATE: Kelley
" i .
FILE: Cuban Operations =

PERSONS/ENT ITIES:

DATES: CATEGORIES:
PRESIDENT KENNEDY BUNDY
ROBERT KENNEDY Nov. 12, 1963 MONGOOSE /
HELMS PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL
RUSK
MCNAMARA
OCCURRENCE:

On NOvember 12, 1963 a meeting on "Cuban Operations" was held with "Higher Authority" -
(President Kennedy). “Present were Mr. RUSK, Mr, MCNAMARA, Mr. ROBERT KENNEDY,

Mr. BUNDY, Mr. MCCONE, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. KILPAGRICK, Mr. VaNCE, Mr.HELMS, Mr.

FITZGERALD, MR. EVER, Mr. STEAKLEY. Mr. MCCONE gave a brief’ si
developments inside Cuba and Mr. Fitzgerald reported on Cuban operations under six

main headings. (Mr. FITZGERALD's discussions of these headings is contained in
separate cards. )

SOURCE?

Memorandum for the record dated Nov. 12. narr. Kelley

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 27


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
PRESIDENT KENNEDY BUNDY
ROBERT KENNEDY NY Nov. 12, 1963 MONGOOSE, . Y
HELMS PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL

RUSK
HMMS SCCURRENCE:
On Nov. 12, 1963, at a meeting with President KENNEDY and others, Mr. FITZGERALD
discussed covert collection in Cuban operations, pointing out that CIA had three
kinds of agents activities inside Cuba: (1) "Singleton" operations (2) Collection

nets (3) agents involvedin black net operations. Some 25 agents had been either -

captured or killed in the past year. There is increasing effectiveness of CASTRO's
internal security forces, accounting for the loss of agents.

SOURCE:
Memorandum for the record dated Nov. 12, 1963 Kelley
" t
PILE: Cuban Operations : DATE:
ee 6/28/75

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES:

“RESIDENT KENNEDY ~ BUNDY MONGOOSE ,
ROBERT KENNEDY MCNAMARA PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL ~ -
HELMS
RUSK

OCCURRENCE

On NOvember 12, 1963 FITZGERALD briefed the President on CIA probaganda activities
in Cuba. He said some "30,000 to 40,000 leaflets per month had been mailed and
during the day there are 32 hours of programs from seven different stations."

SOURCE:

Memorandum for record dated Nov. 12, 1963

Kelley
"Cuban Operations"

FILE: ©

6/28/75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 28


PERSONS/ENTITIEFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
PRESIDENT KENNEDY
SECRETARY RUSK May 28,1963 MONGOOSE
SECRETARY MCNAMARA SPECIAL GROUP

SPECIAL GROUP MEMBERS

OCCURRENCE:

On May 28, 1963 at a special meeting with the President ,"it was decided that two-
level missions using two airplanes each should be flown over Soviet military camps
in Cuba." .

PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL

SOURCE:

Memorandum of record dated May 28, 1963,"low level pat; Kelley
FILE: reconnonaisance of Cuba" —

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
PRESIDENT KENNEDY MCCONE June 19, 1963 MONGOOSE .
SECRETARY MCNAMARA BUNDY SPECIAL GROUP -
HARRIMAN PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL “~~

On June 19, 1963 the meeting was held with "higher authority" at which a program

for "external sabatoge" for Cuba was approved with the underwstanding that operations
will not begin until mid-July. The program was to be directed at four major
segments of the Cuban economy: --(a) electric power: (b) petroleum refineries and

storage facilties (c) railroad and highway transportation (d) production and 7

manufacturing." The purpose of this and other programs is to "nourish a spirit
of resistance and disaffection which could lead to significant defections and
other by-products of unrest.":

SOURCE:

Memorandum for the Special Group dated June 19,1963

FILE: "Sabatoge Program Cuba"

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 29


HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 30

Sawa. WyanZ?!


PERSONS /INE LE LIS 2 OSPR Eom ary rites

t CALEGORIES
; | General Thepmese
The device or the doctrine of plausible deniability" (5) was explained by
Bissell: for any covert operation that was likely to have a visable consequence
one objective was to carry out such operations “in such a way that they could
ae be plausibly disclaimed by the U.S. government." (5)
7 jy PRESIDENTIAL DENTIABILITY: "To protect the President" (5) Allen Dulles wouLa
- ehave attempted "to have indicated to the two succes
~ objective of the operation that was contemplated, to make that sufficiently SOURCE f

a,

,clear so that the President--either President Eisenhower or President Kennedy Brasckl A

” o dust as little information about it as possible beyond an understanding of

“<* its general purpose. Such an approach to the President would have had as ite.
"" purpose to leave him in the position to deny knowledge of the operation if it,
. Should surface." (5-6) Bissell believed, based on "
. Yelationship, of Allen Dulles as an individual, and

Bissell uses this theory of plausible deniability as his explanation for the aon

a xkeason that neither he nor anyone else in the Agency would have discussed an “

“~~ assassination operation on their own initiative with members of the White ooo
House Staff. "The effort would have been to hold to the absolute minimum i)
the number of people who knew that the President had been consulted, had been “\
notified, and had given, perhaps only tacitly, his authorization." (6)

no. mY

PERSOHS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
. . : . a ee
(ysseag Gat (ho
OCCURRENCE:
BISSELL testif .. tiat the Russians have made extensive use
of assassinatiou ‘though he was not referring to assassination

of heads of state. BISSELL had no knowledge of Russian
-assassinations of heads of state by the KGB. (p. 84)

SOURCE: _
Bisset

32423616 Page 31

HW 50955 DoclId


PENOUNS/ENTLTTIES :
sae EN ES
SY, Willie

HARVIE

CATEGORIES:

GENERAL THEMES
(Assassination) —

OCCURRENCE:

—

HARVEY testified that he could envi

justified. First, on proper orders from the proper highest authorities in cases of utter
necessity to eliminate a threat to the security of this country. (22) Asan example, he
mentioned that it might be necessary to eliminate a Cuban leader to protect the United States
against possible attacks by Soviet missiles. (22-23)

HARVEY also believed that assassination would be proper in the case of treason, where
not eliminating the person might lead’to the loss of many lives or of a life more important
than that of the person to be sacrificed. (23) He clarified that these were solely his
personal opinions and have nothing to do with the policy of the Agency. (23)

HARVEY testified that he believed authorization for assassinations should come fron

30.6.75

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
a EEE

OCCURRENCE:

the President. : (24) He was less certain as to whether Presidential approval was necessary
for the assassination of treasonness persons, such as key agents within the Soviet Union
on, whose information the CIA Was—dependent for its own securit .

in we . Peele Micetnlal curity (25)

HARVEY emphasized that in the case of threats to national security, assassinations
should always be authorized by the President. In the case of assassinations necessary to
protect the resources of the Agency, he felt that authority might better be derived from
parties other than the President to keep the President in a "credibly deniable position." (26)

SOURCE: STAPF:
PILE: DATE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 32


PERSONS/ENTITIFS:
a eee ee

CATEGORIES:

CENERAL ‘THEMES

(General Assassination Policy)

HARVEY, William
DUNLOP, Set.

OCCURRENCE:
HARVEY testified that he had no

knowledge of American assassinations of a defected arent,
ment, or defected agents who were third-country nationals. (19)

He further knew of no instance of

the United States' assassinating
political leader. (19-20)

HARVEY testified that he knew of Te to assassinate SGT. DUNLOP. (20)

SOURCE? JIARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, pp. 19-20

FILE:

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

CATEGORIES:
'
5 jar "55 | Gasteo
Chou En Lai I
Corby CD | Gere rel The was V
OCCURRENCE: 7

Colby testified that no CIA involvement with 2 reported attempts ‘to assassinate
Chou in Lai in 'S5 and '56 (Tr. 11-12)

SOURCE? ; STAPF:
Testimony of Wn. C. Colby on 5/25/75 T/ 2/75

John Bayly

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 33


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRET .-
BISSELL, Richard late 1960

EXECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIFLE
GENERAL ES
LONGO

TWEEDY, Bronson

WIROGUE

OCCURRENCE:

BISSELL said that the philosophy described by the Chief of the CIA Africa Division, probably
BRONSON TWEEDY, in a memorandum in late 1960, was probably applicable to matters within the
scope of Project ZRRIFLE. The memorandum reconmended the agent WIROGUE in these terms:

"He is indeed aware of the precepts of right and wrong, but if he is given an assignment ,
which may be morally wrong in the eyes of the world, but necessary because his case officer
ordered him to carry it out, then it is right, and he will dutifully undertake appropriate
action for its execution without pangs of conscience. In a word, he can rationalize all
actions" (59).

SOURCE: BISSELL, II

DATE: 28.6.75
FILE:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES:
LFiiinel Visa 2-5 —

In response to a question about whether the use of

Circumlocutions to describe an assassination opera-

tion resulted from a malaise of conscience, BISSELL

replied, "y don't “think it grated against my :
onscience. think it may have been a f i ~~
the Director /ALLEN DULLES? preferred the use of the

sort of language that is described in the IG Report."

(25).
SOURCE: STAFF:
: Bisseet x= ‘ pn
“FILE: $ GOL

DATE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 34


POU LL Ld? , DALES: | CALRGURLES 2 y,
LPCKINC MG? leie Apt i) | Cenerad Tene Spel ‘)
vu CFEC Casrre

CPerpri Nels) at TAGE
Breckinridge testified that as far as Phase I was concerned he had no
evidence that the CIA had been acting as an instrument of policy. (33) -

NOTE: This phrase “instrument of policy" is taken from the end of the

IG REPORT on page 132. It seems to indicate that, based on his research

for the IG REPORT, BRECKINRIDGE concluded that there was no authoriza-

tion outside the CIA for the Phase 4p aSsassination plot against CASTRO.
mE ee

BRECKINRIDGE said that "no specific instrution"(33) was given.

Specifically in responce to a question from Sen. BAKER, BRECKINRIDGE

said that the Inspector General has no record of-any authorization

for the Phase I gambling-syndicate assassination plot by the White

House, the President, or the Department of Defense(33).

SOURCE: STAPF:

o aff awe i PPR ye ow
Becks oprelyje ! PRC)
PILE: a7 a ; DATE: ,
(ICG . 2/3 L95
PEboONG 7b LaF DA
Breckinridge April 1962 CASTRO
Castre— MONGOOSE
CléA~Mafia SGA
Phase~-LL____ . GENERAL THEMES® (authoriza-
—_ ~ OCCUR ie Da " — ee ~— OT tion)

BRECKINRIDGE testified that in preparing the Inspector General's report
of 1967, he found no evidence of specific authorization for Phase II
for the CIA-Mafia plot against CASTRO from outside the CIA. (43-44)

!

“SOUR ae

~——="= Breckinridge Testimony Baron |

ETL: nape. 7/3/75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 35


PERSONS/ENTITIES: . DATES: CATEGORIES:

ROSELLI CASTRO .

1963 GENERAL THEME

OCCURRENCE:

ROSELLI testified that there was never an:
was doing was illegal nor that if he
it would be taken care of. (65)

y Suggestion from the CIA that what he
got in trouble with law enforcement agencies

SOURCE? ROSELLI TESTIMONY

FILE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 36


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
JLESARRESON March 1963 CASTRO
EDWARD MORGAN Ji'K ASSASSINATION
ROSELLI

GENERAL THEMES 4 -~

ao

JIM O'CONNELL
KENNEDY , se4 .

OCCURRENCE:
The I.G. Report of 1967 indicated that JIM GARRISON, EDWARD MORGAN, and JOHN ROSELLI
were all in Las Vegas at the same time in March of 1960. According to JIM O'CONNELL,

“Garrison was in touch with Roselli". (120) a a

"The Roselli-Garrison contact in Las Vegas in March is particularly’ disturbing.
It_lends substance to reports that CASTRO had something to do with the KENNEDY
assassination in retaliation for U.S. attempts on Castro's life. We do not know
that CASTRO actually tried to retaliate, but we do know that there were such
plots against Castro. Unhappily, it now appears that Garrison may also know this." (120

SOURCE: STAFF:

The I.G. Report commented:

I.G. Report 1967 Baron

DATE:
1/2175

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

OCCURRENCE:
Discovery Leads

1. Did the CIA ever disclose this line of reasoning to the Warren Commission or
to anyone outside the CIA?

2. Should Garrison be interviewed or Roselli questioned about this contact?
(ATTENTION: DAVID AARON )

3. (ATTENTION: RICK INDERFRUTH) Whether or not this line of reasoning can be
substantiated, demonstrates the CIA's general awareness that American assassina-—

tion plotting may breed assassination attempts against American leasers.
(GENERAL ‘THEMES )

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 37


PRRSUNS/ENT LES ¢ DAES +

Breckinridge 5/23/67 CASTRO
EG+RERORT .

GENERAL THEMES ~”

OCCURI

BRECKINRIDGE said that the iktroductory memorandum to the IG REPORT
of 1967, which was dated April 25,°1967, implicitly reached the ;
conclusion that assassination tas "not desireable". (19) He points

to the statement: “Eliinination ‘ef the domindte figure in a government, __

even when loyalties are held-to him personally rather than to the
government as a body will not nece8sarily cause the downfall of the
government."(4) Second, the memorandum made the point that "Vhere is
always the risk that the participants will resort to assassination" (5)
An a covert action to bring about the fall of a government, implying
that assassination is not desirable.

STAPF:
Baron

DATE: 7/3/75

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
eM May 3, 1967 CASTRO ,
SAM PAPICH GENERAL THEMES )~—
HARVEY Ls cays
ROSELLI ” “ECA
GTANCANA

OCCURRENCE:

With regard to the FBI's knowledge of the gambliny syndicate assassination plot,
the I.G. Report of 1967 noted: "They should by now have concluded that CIA
plotted the assassination of CASTRO and used U.S. gangster elements in the
operation." (131)

On May 3, 1967 J. S. EARMAN, Inspector General of the CIA, met with SAM PAPICH
of the FBI and told PAPICH of an expected ‘meeting betWeerr ROSELLI and HARVEY.
PAPICH commented "that ROSELLI and GIANCANA have CIA ‘over a barrel' because
of 'that operation'. He said that he doubted that the FBI would be able to do
anything about either ROSELLI or GIANCANA because of ‘their Previous activities

w ih ae Copa." 15) continued
SOUT Chr Toe: Repor STAFF: Baron

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 38


seek eae

CATEGORIES:

CASTRO
GENERAL THEMES #* 7

Breckinridge
EG-REPORT

4/25/67

BRECKINRIDGE said that the introductory memorandum to the IG REPORT
of 1967, which was dated April 25, 1967, implicitly reached the

conclusion that assassination was "not desireable", (19) He points
to the statement: “Elimination of the i i

will not necessarily cause the downfall of the
government."(4) Second, the memorandum made the point that "There is
always the risk that the participants will resort to assassination" (5)

na covert action to bring about the fall ofa government, implying
that assassination is not desirable,

SOURCE: STAPF
Breckinridge Testimony Baron
FILS: ¥ err DARE? 7/3/75
why .
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
RERVHOENTITIES 2ADES SAPEGORTES

CEA May 23, 1967 GENERAL THEMES U~

OCCURRENCE:

The I.G. Report of 1967 acknowle
CIA internal investigation of CL
Agency:

dges that there is an inherent incompleteness to ~
A operations involving personnel outside the

"If an independent investigation were to be ordered, the investigators
could learn everything that we have learned. Such an investigation
probably would uncover details unknown to us, because it would have
: access to the non-CIA participants." (132)
Discovery Leads :

ATTENTION: RICK INDERFURTH

SOURCE? TG. Report 1967 STAFF? op aron
DATE:
DATES 1/2/75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 39


PERSONS/ENTIVIES : DATES: CATEGORIES :
May 23, 1967 CASTRO -

GENERAL THEMES

OCCURRENCE?

EE pi De
In the conclusion to the I.G, Report of 1967, the following action alternatives
were considered:

1. "Try to silence those who are talking or might later talk."(128)
2. "Plausibly deny that we plotted with gangster elements to assassinate Castro"
(131) ;

3. "State or imply that it [CIA] was merely an instrument of policy" (132)

In this case each of the alternatives was rejected. But the format seems to
indicate that such alternatives are considered frequently by the CIA in dealing
with the disclosure or potential disclosure of a covert operation.

(Continued) :

SOURCE:

I.G. Report of 1967
FILE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 40


severe caseane”

, SACC. MTC ION |

ZRRIFLE

DocId:32423616 Page 41

HW 50955


PERSUNS/ENTIVIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

NARVEY, William
SILVER, Arnold
BISSELL, Richard

OCCURRENCE:
WARVEY testified that he had a conversation with ARNOLD SILVER about the EXECUTIVE ACTION
project on January 26, 1961, after HARVEY and BISSELL had already discussed the matter. (52).

HARVEY testified that he learned early in the operation that BISSELL had discussed the ques- |‘
tion of assassination with ARNOLD SILVER. (52) _

SOURCE:

HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 52

PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: ; CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, William EXECUTIVE ACTION

Spring 1961
HELMS, Richard .
BISSELL, Richard

OCCURRENCE: -

NARVEY testified that after he had examined the possibility of the CIA's carrying, out
assassinations, he reported his conclusions to HELMS and BISSILL. He testified that he
liscussed the matter with HELMS shortly after he had been given the assignment of loolcing
into the assassination matter and that they talked about HARVEY's grave doubts, reserva-
tions, and problems concerning this kind of operation. (42) :

SOURCE?" HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 42

. 26 Jan. 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION / =

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 42


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

7 y
Biseel& S/o/ é Keubrverte tor

Referring to the White Hlouse requests for establishing

an Executive Action program, ‘Bissell said: "What they
contemplated is action that would be conducted through the
clandestine service in the regular channel. What they

meant by an Executive Action capability, of course, embraced
a great deal more than assassination. It embraced means of
discrediting a political leader, possibly means of physically
incapacitating him, but without permanent injury, possibly
assassination as last resort." (p. 57).

Bissell indicated, however, that this was not said directly
to him in those terms and was an assumption on his part

. 58). oF 2
(n- 58). STAFF! Boy
\ uy
EIRE: we DATE:
es CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

Greer
Bissell
White House

ZR Rifle

|
I
| Castro
L

OCCURRENCE +
ifi j ifle, The "Ke eer Document," (Tr. 85),
5 tified Ex. A, Project ZR Rifle, The Ken Greer Do "
so rect in its statement that "the White House urged Richard Bissell

i i lity," (Tr. 86) and that one of its
to create an executive action capability, ¢ at ¢ : s
purposes was a general standby capability to carry out assassinations. (Tr. 86)

9

wt

STARE +
John Bayly

estimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75
DATE: 7/2/75

aad

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 43


PERSOUS/ DA CATEGORIES:

Cuba
Bie ke sbi 2R/ Ripe
Rostow™

OCCURRENCE:

In reference to the initial White House requests for
establishment of an assassination Capability to be known

as Executive Action, Bissell testified "Very probably one
of those two /Bundy or Rostow/ or both of those White House
staff members would have discussed it with me." (p. 54).

SOURCE? cee // /

FILE:

PERSONS/ENTITIES: -

DATES: CATEGORIES:

we . , ~
zs n_S)BISSELL May 1966 EXECUTIVE ACTION
N34

"The plan of the capability I could have done on my own
or ordered on my own." (p. 79).

Note: Here BISSELL is answering a question about whether
he had the authority to establish such a program without
instructions from the WHITE MOUSE.

SOURCE: BISSELL i ; ———'’ Baron

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 44


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:
ae

CATEGORIES:
BISSELL ° a
ROSTOW May 1960 EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE:

Although BISSELL maintains that he does not remember specific
conversations in which the WUITE HOUSE urged him to create

an [Executive Action capability, he’ has testified: "J believe
that IT did have conversations, at least with Mr. ROSTOW about
the creation of a Capability." (p. 81).

"In other words, it may have been initiated within the Agency,

it could have been, but I believe that if S05 iI *talked, to him
about it." (p. 81). ve

SOURCE: STAFF? 3

— e aron
BISSELL I DATE:

FILE:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

(Prssexe

CATEGORIES:
Cube

Socudie Gti

OCCURRENCE:

Bissell testified that the Executive Action project did not
only represent an assassination capability but "it is a
Capability to secure the removal from office or to render
powerless or in some other way to frustrate figures,
usually political figures that are considered or whose

activities are considered contrary to the interests of the
United States." (p. 68).

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 45


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: 1 CATEGORIES:
{

BISSELL ZR “
CASTRO May 1961 RIFLE
‘ EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE: CaRD 1 of 2

Despite Bissell's statement that he docs not remember
requests from the White House to set up his ZR/RITLE
assassination capability, he states later in his testi- aoe

mony: "I interpreted this as a request to develop a a ‘

different kind of a capability which would have been
appropriate for the clandestine service and of a wholly
different sort from that being used in the so-called

First Phase against CASTRO. " (p. 53). as
SOURCE: STAFF:
IG REPORT, 1967 “~~~ Baron
FILE: . DATE: July 3, 1975
PERSONS /ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

CONTINUATION OF IG REPORT Card 2 of 2

remember who in the White House made this request (p. 49).
Bissell places this request in early 1961. (p. $0). Bissell
remembers assigning William Harvey the task of developing

the Executive Action program, but he does not remember the
requests from the White House-(p. 50). Bissell suggests

that the requests might have come from Bundy (p. 49) or

Walt Rostow (p. 51). Bissell does not deny the truth of

the quote from Harvey that he, Bissell, stated that he

ZRRIFLE assassination capability. But he does not remember
specific conversations (p. 51).
SOUKUIE polare.

Bissell recalis that this is true (p. 49), but he cannot —_

received two requests from the White House to set up the —

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 46


PERSONS/ENTITIFS: _ DATES: CATEGORIFS;
BISSELL Early 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION
BUNDY
ROSTOW
. OCCURRENCE:
_€ BISSELL said that shortly after the advent of the KENNEDY
: ADATRIS TRATION there were weekly luncheon meetings in the
STATI DEPARTMENT with BUNDY and ROSTOW in attendance rep-
a resenting the WHITE HOUSE, BISSELL in attendance from the

ao CIA, and one or two people from the Departments of STATE
_ and DEFENSE, roughly at the Assistant Secretary level. No
... tinutes were kept. They were occasions for discussine
2 without agenda whatever topics were brought out. (p. 81-82).

STAFF:

Baron
‘DATE: July 3, 1975

BISSELL I

CATEGORIES:

4 CONTINUATION CARD 2Jof 3
“yer OCCURRENCE:
. BISSELL testified that the proposal for an Executive Action
i :*) project at those luncheon meetings was “exactly the sort
_, ... of thing that could have happened, and this is the kind of
_) place where I think that it probably was proposed." (p. 82).

He said further that assuming there were two requests from
-» the WHITE HOUSE, they could have come at successive mectings
. of this sort. (p. 82).

y . BISSELL indicated that he might have made reports on the

4 developments in the Executive Action program at these luncheon
meetings, but "as I normally operated I would replied more

—— particularly to ROSTOW in this case." (p. 82). (a ertrnesd )

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 47


PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

CONTINUATION CARD 3 of 3

CCURRENCE;

BISSELL said that he had the feclin

that he di
this way to Mr. ROSTONW (p. 83). 0 et Ne C44 report in

Note: This card contains two di j
n y h iscrceet subjects: (1)
* Formulation of the Executive Action pl i
a aul an, and (2 3
chess to KOSTOW on the Executive Action program. (2) Reporting

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
lielms, Pichard r ti Reti
ixecutive Action ,
HaRYEY Castro
ze Refle

OCCURRENCE: Helms testified that the Z PR Pifle cffart to assassinate Castro
the other seneral cfferts to "eliminate Castro or dispose of Castro" were

lly distinctiwe programs (52). elms testified that the reference t# the IG
orts stating that he authorized Ifarvey to handle the Z R Rifle project on a
cial basis was correct. Such authorization was necessary bec ause of the

ounting system of the CIA which required an officer's signature for disbursemen —

doin sensitive operations (54).

SOURCE: ; ;
— Holms 6/13/75 STAPF N

FILE: : DATE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 48


FENOUNS/SENLT LV LES DATES: CATEGORIES:

Nelms, Richard ) 46) Executive Action
ZR Rifle
OCCURRENCE: Tiejins testilicd that he remembered =P Ritle.

Ne particularly
venlembered his desire to Eide he project and to see if the hit man“@he used teu
some other useful way, SRAIAE, eventually terminated two or three years later.
‘olms testified he did not remember the man's name or his nationality. ij!e did
not Like the idea and finally phased it out. (53) Helms testified that he con-
sidered Z R Rifle a "tiny little thine". (52)

Helms 6/13/75

Rhea

DATE: 6/28/75

Dav

126 sxceutive Action 4
thes, Richard , _ L961 [xecutive Actio

Cg ahre
ZEB Rife
OCCURRENCE: “Tleims testified that there was no doubt that one of the purposes
ZR Rifle was to establish a cay bility Cor assassinating Foreign leaders.
4-55) Helms could not recall hearing discussions regarding setting up a capa
lity for the assassination of Castro. (55) He could recall know overlap he
‘een the Castro assassination programs and ZR Rifle (55).

SOURCE: = STAFF: ,
Helms 6/15/75 : Rhea

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 49


CATEGORIES:

PERSO?

Breckinridge
Helms
Harvey
Bissell
A y
Cagpye

Castro
ZR Rifle

OCCURRENCE:

Breckinridge testified that Helms ''signed off on a project: that was originally
initiated by Mr. Bissell called ZR Rifle, and ZR Rifle was a project that

Mr. Bissell was quoted as saying was at the urgency (sic) of the White Ilouse."
(Tr. 66) ‘ZR Rifle was described as an executive action capability, a capability
to permit assassination if someone called for them". (Tr. 66-67) 'Mr. Harvey
was given the responsibility of this by Mr. Bissell and originally it continued
as a separate action from the Castro operation, but Mr. Harvey was also given
that responsibility, and for all intents and purposes: they became, wedded."

(Tr. 67) poaget CITT

SOURCE: 7, STAFF:
Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75 : parrvohn Bayly
FILE:
2 ; :

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: i CATEGORIES:
PERSONG/ENT IT be DATES
Breckinridge gp - GE |
felms '& i Castro

| ZR Rifle

|

OCCURRENCE:

Breckinridge testified that 'Mr. Helms was the person who formally approved
ZR Rifle... (which) had a dual purpose... to steal codes" and to provide
jethal executive action capability. (Tr. 67, 69-70) Ri€le Meant

rifle (gun) and rifle (rummage through files). ERGOT]

SOURCE: STARE:
Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75 John Bayly

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 50


PEXSONS/ENTITIES:
SRA ENTIPIES
the Cou .
Box o¢ Pigs

OCCURRENCE:

the Bay of
tified that the Executive Action Plan was not called off after
Pine He state that this was understandable because this was a planning operation.

CATEGORIES:
EXECUTIVE ACTION /

It was not an authorized action operation (42)

SOURCE: STAFF:

MCCone Testimony Rhea
PILE: DATES 6/27/75
PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES:
early 1961

HARVEY, WILLIAM

CATEGORIES:
BISSELL, RICHARD

CASTRO

EXECUTIVE ACTION /

the following events led him to believe that
ast in principle, the operation to assassinate
Castro. First, he had a conversation early in 1961 with Bissell, when Bissell
told him that,on one or more occasions, he had been urged by the White louse to
see that the Agency develope an Executive Action capability.(80) Bisselq

ep to the- White-Ilouse only in general; ‘and did not name specific individuals. :
(S1

OCCURRENCE; Harvey testified that
the White House had approved, at le

llarvey testified that he believed that if the White llouse had givena"
“generalized approval, in principle,"then the CIA would have been acting within
its authority to mount a specific operation against Castro” (82) He further
testified that he could conceive of situations, including assassinations,

where "no one would want to charge the President

» personally, with the complete
dirty-handed details of it." (82) :

7EY WARVEY TESTIMONY, .
PILE: . i}

: Rhea

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 51


PERSONS/ENTITIFS:

HARVEY, William .
rae. EF QUIN
SILVER, Arnold

CATEGORIES:

EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE:

HARVEY testified that QJ.Win was an agent that he considered for possible use and used for a
Limited period through ARNOLD SILVER for the spotting, of individuals with criminal and under-
world connections in Europe for possible multipurpose use, none of whom were ever advised of
the use. (50) Or were ever used.

When HARVEY was asked if the multipurpose use included assassination, he stated that if
he had ever been directly ordered to perform an assassination, he would have considered the
veople spotted by &.J.Winas possibilities. (50) He testified that before someone would have
actually been approached to carry out that operation, there would have been a long period of
assessment and cross checks, As far as he knew, the particular spotting, mechanism never went,
that far. So far as HARVEY could recall K.J.Win was used only once in connection with an opera-
Lion In the Coneo, which was not an assassination operation. (51) .

SOURCE: pyaRVEY oT Pp” ' STAFF:
: nae ‘is _

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
HARVEY, William

‘

Rhea

DATE?  30.6.75

EXECUTIVE ACTION — _

OCCURRENCE:
HARVEY testified that the EXECUTIVE ACTION PROGRAM was a synonym for assassination. (10)

STAFF: Rhea

SOURCE: < WARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 10

FILE: DATE: 30.6.75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 52


PERSONS/ENTITIES:

CATEGORIES:
Colby, Wm. E. IK-C-2-b

Execute Ack un vo

1 j o ° :
In response to a question from Senator Huddleston which asked who was the
lowest ranking official in the CIA who could authorize assassination .
attempt and have the ability to have action taken on it and funds supplied,
etc., Colby stated "I doubt that I could give you a formal answer to that,
Senator." He indicated that it was such a serious matter it could only be
approved at a very high level including the Director. He further indicated
that he cannot imagine the Director giving this authority without having

some (37). (Interrupted by further question, answer
incomplete,
SOURCE:
SSCI; testimony of Wm. E. Colby, 6/4/75 JFD
FILE: DATE:
° Cage 6/28/75

CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

MCCONE EXECUTIVE ACTION i“

Hester Prutenchy

OCCURRENCE:

f a section of the CIA

MCCONE was asked whether the Executive Action was an instance o.

telew his level acting without his authority or wnetnee i" Fact there was Presidential
thority authoriz: it.and MCCONE had been kept—in-the—dark.—_____

MCCONE responded that the actions taken under the authority of the Executive Action

Plan were not under "direction from higher authority" (43)

MCCONE stated that his answer was purely speculation. (43)

McCone Testimony Rhea
FILE: ——" 6/27/75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 53


PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
EXECUTIVE ACTION 4

MCCONE

HARVEY CASTRO

OCCURRENCE:

MCCONE testified that he "never knew of the Executive Action Plan (42). In describing
lack of supervision in HARVEY's activities, MCCONE testified "for several months

Mr. HARVEY was in charge of the Executive Action Plan. Just what he did I don't know
but this I am told. I never knew of the Executive Action Plan and was never ~
breifed on it, I was never told about it to my memory or any record on it. Then

Mr. HARVEY was moved over in charge of the Cuban operation and I think whatever
action he took -- I have hear of two or three, all of which were abortive and in my
opinion stupid -- he did it under what he thought was the authority of the Executive
Action Plan but not any — to my knowledge -- any direction of higher authority" (42)
MCCONE testified that the Executive Action Plan was a subject on which he could only

SOURCE: , STAFF:
McCone Testo! Rhea
: DATE:
FILE: 6/27/75
_PERSONS/ENTITIES: ir DATES: CATEGORIES:
MCCONE EXECUTIVE ACTION 4

OCCURRENCE:

‘

MCCONE described the Executive Action Plan as follows: "An Executive Action Plan in
the jargon of the intelligence world means a plan for removal by any means of an
undesirable head of state or senior person in a country. It doesn't necessarily
mean an assassination. It might mean setting them up onthe Riveira with a blonde
and swiss bank account but getting rid of them." (41)

McCone Testimony Rhea
FILE: ° namn.

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 54


PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

Helms, Richard

HARVEY

Executive Action
Castro
ze Rifle

OCCURRENCE? Tieims testified that the Z PR Rifle cffort to assassinate Castro
ind the other general efforts to "eliminate Castro or dispose of Castro" were
holly distinctiwe programs (52). Helms testified that the reference t# the IG
teports stating that he authorized Ilarvey to handle the Z R Rifle project on a
special basis was correct. Such authorization was necessary bec ause of the
iccounting system of the CIA which required an officer's signature for disbursenen
ised in sensitive operations (54).

SOURCE: ae
—— Nelms 6/13/75 STAPF: Rhea
FILE: TE: ;
DATE 6/28/75
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
Nelms, Richard 196] Executive Action

ZR Rta ~

OCCURRENCE: ticlms testified that he remembered ZR Rifle. fle particularly
remembered his desire ta dias De project and to see if the hit man“€S*be used era
some other useful way, SBME eventually terminated two or three years Later.
Selns testified he did not remember the man's name or his nationality. Tle did

vot like the idea and finally phased it out. (53) Helms testified that he con-
sidered 2 R Rifle a "tiny Little thing". (52)

SOURCE: Helms 6/13/75 STAFF:
Rhea
FILE DATE: 6/28/75

AW 50955 DocId: 32423616 Page 55


PERSONS /ENTIGIES : | DA'PES : { CATEGOR LISS t
a |

Breckinridge CES fra ‘61 - G2 !

Bissel ot “ “G2. \ Castro

Harvey : | ZR Rifle“

Mafia .

OCCURRENCE?

Breckinridge testified that "Bissell. told Ilarvey to create the executive action
capability’ and to take over the Castro assassination attempt, which was
connected with a continuing relationship between the CIA and the Mafia."
(Tr. 71) isons

“Sour

Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75 ; John Bayly
PILE: | DATE 7/2/75
NS/ENTITIES: | DATES: CATEGORIES:
Wo ZENE Patho BASS | VRE EGUIE E
|
Harvey . :
Colby '61-'62 Castro
; 2R Rifle
. “OCCURRENT

Colby testified "Mr. Harvey was... very effective..." (Ir. 90)

AG) : a | 8

Testimony of Wn. C-lby, 5/23/75

|
PILE: on 7/2/75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 56


silver, Arnold
Jarvey, William
Bissell, Richard

Executive Action Project on January 26,
the matter (52). larvey testified that h

_ -—~-

YALEOG CALEGORIES :
1/26/61

EXECUTIVE ACTION 4

a conversation with Arnold Silver about the
1961, after Harvey and Bissell had already discussed

h a learned early in the operati i
liscussed the question of assassination with Arnold Silver (52) peracton that Bissell had

OCCURRENCE: llarvey testified that he had

SOURCE: A
“~~ HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, p. 52 STAPF:
PILE: DATE:
6/30/75
:
PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:

HARVEY
K. G. WIN

OCCURRENCE:

(1) personnel: K.G. Win is under written contact as a principal agent, with the primary
task of spotting ayent candidates. K.G. Win was first contacted in 1958 to the Chief

of the Luxembourgis by the chief of station, Luxembourg , in connection with illegal
narcotics operation into the United States. . For dperiod of a year and a half he was
contacted spareatically by COS, Luxembourg, in behalf of the Bureau of Narcotics. Files
of this Bureau reflect an excellent performance by K. G. Win. In October 1960:

K. G. Win annual salary $7,200 Hire of safe houses and other
Travel and OBS expenses for K. G. Win and automobile expenses $1,000
other agents and agent candidates $2,000 Total $14,700

Fees for services by and standby of agents and agent candidates $2,000
SOURCE © - , STAY:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 57


LWNOUNS/SENT LET LS? DATES: ! CATEGORIES:
see CATEGORIES
HARVEY Jan 26, 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION

BM iY

, {Harvey's hadwritten notes entitled Project Zrriffle (exhibit 1) state "6bjectives"!
The objectives of this project is the procurement of code decipher materials, and
information concerning such materials, in accordance with requirements levied on the
clandestine services, primarily by the NASA security agency. Since these requirements
are subject to frequent revision, no listing of targets would be valid for the duration
of the project. Specific operations will be mounted on the basis of need and
opportunity. “the Project will be conducted by division B with assistance fran area
divisions and stations as needed.” (exhibht 1)
Harvey testified that his notes didnot cite assassination or assassination capability as
an objective of project Zrriffle. However, assassination was a contemplated purpose of the
project. If an agent had been recruited for assassination he would have been recruited
under the cover of obtaining code and cipher materials. (49)

SOURCE:

OCCURRENCE:

STAPF;

Harvey 6/25/75 Rhea

FILE: DATE: — 6/30/75
PERSONS/ENTIVIES: DATES:
HARVEY
OCCURRENCE: nes oo et

The notes in Harvey's handwriting entitled Project Zrriffle state "3. Background:

response to the increasing requirements for the operational procurement of foreign
code and cipher materials, division B in 1960 began spotting of agent assets as a
developmental activity. During the same period requirements from NSA became more
refined and in many respects more sentative because most agencies are not equipped
to conduct this type of operation, and because of the desirability to completely centralize
control over this entire effort, it was determined that division d which was the closest
touch with NSA on procurement requirements, could best conduct the activity. ‘The spotting
activity has now advanced far enough to justify removing fram the OOA category. (exhibit
1, page l - 2)

SOURCE: | STAFF:

i
Harvey 6/25/75 | Rhea

FILE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 58


PINOUNS/ENLTITLES :

DATES: | CATEGORIES: yop srcrer

BISSELL, Richard Co 4g | EXECUTIVE ACTIONL-
QUWIN Feb, (1o[ | CONGO

HARVEY

ZRRIFLE

CCURRENCE:

BISSELL testified that he did not have any personal recollection of who QJWIN was, although
he says that he probably was informed at the time if HARVEY recruited him for ZRRIFLE (58)

SOURCE? prsseri, IZ STAFF: Baron
FILE: DATE? 286.75
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES: op secre
SRATRRE O'DONNELL, Justin May 1961 tO RXECUTIVE ACTION v
QJWIN BISSELL, Richard February_19,_ 1942
SILVER, Arnold eS LRRIELE
LUMUMBA, Patrice Feb., 4&4 :
OCCURRENCE: =

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -taigeme- program came to be known as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was
an agent, QUWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD SILVER.for use in a special opera-
tion in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA), to be run by JUSTIN O'DONNELL
(O'DONNELL made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in that assassination
attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted)." (38)

IPT “TR ET

SOURCE::  I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

STAFF: Baron

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 59


PEWOUNDS/ ENTAILS t DATES: Ie CATEGORIES: . TOP SECRET
BISSELL, Richard O'DONNELL, Justin | FER =YECUTIVE ACTION 2 -
HARVEY, "William BRECKENRIDGE, Ss. Haz, 1961 i CONGO / ZRRIFLE,
APRTTER HELMS, Richard :

SILVER, Arnold - QTwins
LUMUMBA, Patrice
OCCURRENCE:

6 eG \ pene

The EXECUTIVE ACTION program authorized by BISSELL and run by WILLIAM HARVEY "came to be known
as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was an agent, QUWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD
SILVER for use in a special operation in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA) to be
run by JUSTIN O'DONNELL. (O'DONNELL made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in
that assassination attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted.)" (38)

NOTE: In the copy of the I.G. REPORT provided to the Committee, which was, according, to
EARMAN's cover memorandum the ribbon copy, which was the only text of the report in existence ,,
phrase in the above paragraph "(the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA)" was crossed out. S,

BRECKENRIDGE indicated to the Committee that this phrase was crossed out by RICHARD HELMS when
he read the report. Why?

SOURCE;

I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38 STAFF: Baron

DATE: 28.6.75

DATES: | CATEGORIES: Top SECRET
SRR ES O'DONNELL, Justin | (May -_ | EXECUTIVE ACTION
QUWIN BISSELL, Richard | pcopaary 19, 1942 Pe pikLE
SILVER, Arnold - a (aa DA. VA
LUMUMBA, Patrice | Feb., tel LUM LM BA

OCCURRENCE: ctpst
“The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -uspmsse- program came to be known as ZRRIPLE. Its Se ta coal opera
an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD SILVER For use Fe See MIELE.
tion “in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUMUMBA), to be run Py Soe oo ote
(O'DONNELL made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted a Tt38) Ss

attempt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted).

T.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 60


BAKER
BISSELL
HARVEY
ROSTOW

+ OCCURRENCE:

Cord tof 2-

May 1961

beth das 6

ZR
RIFLE

EXECUTIVE ACTION

Senator Baker asked Bissell to comment upon the section

of the 1G Report of 21 May 1973 which says: “Early in

'’ the KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION, the White House urged Richard
. Bissell to create an Executive Action capability, that

tions." (p. 48).

L ; : —— -
( SouReE: I . Re cog a \ Veshrword _
967- : .

=

is, a general stand-by capability to carry o

ut assassina-

| STARR:
Baron
1

|

pate: July 3, 1975

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

Bisse lL

DATES:

Cube/’
2R/RIFLE

CATEGORIES:

— "Project named” ZR/RIFLE first appears in the files in _——
May 1961 although the first recorded approval is 19

(p. 48).

May 1962."

This is a quote from the document entitled Nine Pages from
the Inspector General, 21 May 1973.

Note: Check this quote against the original document. It
is important, to locate the document referred to as "the first
recorded approval" for ZR/RIFLE in order to determine whether
the White House requests for the establishment of an assassina-
tion capability was first made in May 1961, as I have assumed
here, or around May 1962. Note further that all of my
references to the initial White House requests for the
— establishment of ZR/RIFLE have been filed under May 1961. _

“Risse. LL Le enema een

7 oe or a ae

barar

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 61


PERSONS/ENTITIES:

BAKER
BISSELL
HARVEY
ROSTOW

CATEGORIES:

May 1961 _ REPEE-

OCCURRENCE: .
oo Card

a

1 of 2

“Senator Baker asked Bissell t

i-EXECUTIVE ACTION

o comment upon the section

of the IG Report of 21 May i 5

) te rt ay 1973 which says: "Early i

pee KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION, the White louse urged Richard

i pissel! to create an Executive Action capability, that
zenera - ili j

ise g ip. aay by capability to carry out assassina-

1967

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE Dulles
HELMS
CABELL
MAHEU

C
MCCONE testified that he

IG REPORT

had no knowledge sR at any time prior to his assumption of

Baron

pate; July 3, 1975

: CATEGORIES:
B xeecrys @ Ae fren Y

DORREBE Ca s7re

the Directorship of the CIA that the CIA had been given authority to be involved =
68) He testified that he had no knowledge of who had initiated
arried it out and that he had never known of the Executive

nied Imowledge of other’ abortive assassination attempts

in assassination plots (
the MAHEU operation or ¢c
Action Plan. He also de)

against CASTRO, although he presume/they were

Executive Action Plan.

whether there had ever been any grant authority to the CIA to p

He had never discusse

SOURCE:

FILE:

McCone Testimony

Bot

carried under the authority of the
@ with DULLES or General CABELL or HELMS
lan assassination (68)

STAFF:

Rhea
DATE:
6/28/75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 62


PERSONS/ENTITIFS:
meee

DATES: | CATEGORIES:
HARVEY May 24, 1901 | UK =
| CRLFLES
| EXECUTIVE ACTION

OCCURRENCE:

William K. Harvey, Chief, FI/Division DD, issued a memorandum
for Cable Secretariat, the subject of which was "Distribution --
ZR/RIFLE Traffic," which indicated that two copies of all

cable traffic concerning ZR/RIFLE were

to be delivered to
Harvey, and no other distribution was to be made.

SOURCE:
IG REPORT, 1967

FILE: July 3, 1975

PERSONS/ENTITIEFS: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
HARVEY May 24, 1961 } Wa
‘RIFLE
EXECUTIVE ACTION
OCCURRENCE:

William K. Harvey, Chief, FI/Division DD, issued a memorandum

for Cable Secretariat, the subject of which was "Distribution --
ZR/RIFLE Traffic," which indicated that two copies of all

cable traffic concerning ZR/RIFLE were:to be delivered to

Harvey, and no other distribution was to be made.

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 63


PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:
HARVEY

MCCONE 1962
FITZGERALD, DESMOND

CATEGORIES:

CASTRO
EYEE TIVE Ae Tigi’ KH

OCCURRENCE:

In response to a question as to how HARVEY could have continued the Executive Action
Plan without MCCONE's knowledge, MCCONE replied "I think he was reporting at that
time to DESMOND FITSGERALD who in turn reported to Mr. HELMS." (49)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:
MCCONE MONGOOSE .
CASTRO ;

EXECUTIVE ACTION |“

OCCURRENCE:
MCCONE was asked how assassination attempts could have taken place without his

knowledge. He replied that it was very disturbing to him to learn of these

assassination attempts "but I think the reason it went on was it *under an :
authority that was granted before I took office, But that is not}an excuse" (47) -

SOURCE:
McCone Testimony

FILE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 64


PIAL LNA doe ade PHL i Vit dant Vir bls «

Seiad EA ; YUL GiGi
BISSELL, Richard February 1962 | EXECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIFLE \7
HELMS, Richard |

OCCURRENCE:

ape. believes that he told HELMS about Project BRRIFLE at the time of HELMS' succession
as

SOURCE? “BISSELL, IT (53) STAFFT taron
me | | pare: ”28.6.75
PEXSONS/ENTITERS | DATES : | CATEGORIES:
Cubella 63) :
Breckinridge 64 i
Castro "65 Castro
| 2R Riflewn—
OCCURRENCE:

Breckinridge testified that ''Cubella was a man who was high in the Castro
government, he was a man who represented a dissatisfied element, " (Tr. 80)
or so CIA thought. (Tr. 82-83) In general, in the past, for the CIA,
“assassination became a consideration, but assassination had not been

the objective." (Tr. 80}

SOURCE:

Pata, C/9R/TE . i namn John Ravlv

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 65


Breckinridge
Castro 2-65

>
;
,
,

Castro
ZR Rifle

ilarvey

|

OCCURRENCE:

Breckinridge testified that "the Mafia connection from beginning to end was
an attempt to assassinate Castro. The operation was called off finally
in the Spring, perhaps February of 1965."" (Tr. 72)

Harvey called off Mafia operation (Tr. 72-75)

SOURCE: STAFF:

Testimony of Wn. Colby, 5/23/75 parr John Bayly

FILE: 7/2/75

wee ee ee ee eee . S oslatannteniashentnatententanteatentententaebesteatestententententenetentemets
PERSONS/ENTIPTIRS : DATES: | CATEGORIES:
Dulles
2 '

Cur hy 6-63 | IR Rifle

OCCURRENCE: 7

Colby testified "the indication (is) that Mr. Dulles did know of this act

(ZR Rifles project to carry out assassination) at the tir ic. June 963
a t
(Tr. 88) (Tr. 87 88) 7

SOURCE: : ene ioe
Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75 . John Bavly

meen. | DATE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 66


PERSONS/ENTITIES:
ee

DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘TOP SECRE
HARVEY, William
Chief, FT Start, cra 27 June 196 | EXECUTIVE action,
QUWIN BAP ee
tA TYE “A
OCCURRENCE:

HARVEY writes a memorandum to the Chief, FI Stafr,

for employing QJWIN no longer existed."

(41)—+6se

SOURCE: o
—_——_ I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 4a

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
Cubella

Fitzgerald

Harvey
-Artine

OCCURRENCE:

Breckinridge testified that Orlando

CATEGORIES:

Castro
ZR Rifle C——

Cubella,disaffected Cuban major, talked with

Harvey's (perhaps) successor Fitzgerald about obtaining arms. On 11-22-63, Cubella ~
offered ball point pen usable as a poison syringe in Paris, France. He refused

it. In Feb. '64 ('657) , Cubella given weapon by Cuban refugee in Madrid

(Arting?) after amns cafches put down off Cuban Coast. (fr. 74, 75, 76, 77, & 78)

SOURCE:

Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75

=
Tahn Dayedar

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 67


GORTES:
PERSONS/ENTIPIFS: CATEGORIES

iS)
C4
i
ta

Cubella *63

Breckinridge co) castro
Castro 65 asti
2R Rifle U7

OCCURRENCE: -

Breckinridge testified that ''Cubclla was a man who was high in the castre
povernuent, he was a man who represented a dissatisfied element," (Tr. 80)
- or so CIA thought. (Tr. 82-83) In general, in the past, for the oe
“assassination became a consideration, but assassination had not been

the objective."" (Tr. 80)

~~~SOURCE: STARE?
Testimony of Wn. Colby, 5/25/75 pape John Bayly
PILE: Lo ayayrs

PERSONS/ENTI Ss DATES: | CATEGORIES: .
Cubella <6 t Castro

Fitzgerald { ZR Riflew—

Harvey

Artime

OCCURRENCE?

Breckinridge testified that Orlando Cubella,disaffected Cuban major, talked with -
Harvey's. (perhaps) successor Fitzgerald about obtaining arms. On 11-22-63, Cubella —
offered ball point pen usable as a poison syringe in Paris, France. He refused

it. In Feb. '64 ('65?) , Cubella given weapon by Cuban refugee in Madrid

(Artime?) after arms cafches put down off Cuban Coast: (Vr. 74, 75, 76, 77, & 78)

SOURCE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 68


PERSONS /ith

‘ITTES: | DETES: CATEGORIES:
Cubella | "63 i
Breckinridge H

164 ,
Castro os Castro
2k Rifle ——
OCCURRENCE:
ERENCE

Breckinridge testified that "Cubella was a4 man who was }
governnent, he was a man who represented a dissatisfied
or so CIA thought, (Tr. 82-83)
“assassination became a c
the objective." (Tr. $0)

high in the Castro
element," (Tr. 80)
In general, in the Past, for the CEA,
onsideration, but assassination had not been

fea

SOURCE: STAFF:
Testimony of Wn, Colby, 5/23/75 DATR:John Bayly
FILE:

PERSONS/ENTITTES ; CATEGORIES:
oo EE
Cubella “Str I Castro

Fitzgerald bang i ZR Rifle W
Harvey 11-22-63

Artine

OUCURRENCE:

Breckinridge testified th,
Harvey's (perhap
offered bal]
it. In Feb,
(Arting?) aft

at Orlando Cubella, disaffected Cuban major, talked with - “
DS) successor Fitzgerald about obtaining arms. On 11-22-63, Cubella —
Bont pen usable as a poison Syringe in Paris, France. He refused

"64 (1657) » Cubella given Weapon by Cuban refugee in Madrid

er arms cafches put down off Cuban Coast: (fr. 74, 75, 76, 77, & 78)

i ennataa

Testimony OF Mn Cathe pan oe

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 69


Breckinridge 6-65
Cubella

VA LIU bide 6

Castro
ZR Rifle

OCCURRENCE:

SOURCE:

Testimony of Wa. Colby, 5/23/75
PILE:

PERSONS/ENTIVIES: DATE
Breckinridge

Cubella ‘75

;
i
SCCURRENCE:

John Bayly
DATE:

7/2/75

CATEGORIFS:

Castro

ZR Rifle U~

3reckinridge testified that Cubella now in j

OURCE:

ail on Isle of Pines. (Tr. 98)

T STarr-

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 70


OL

HE

ix
of

ae
io

MAI

fact that he had been piven the assignment by BISSELL. (44)

So&LL, Richard
ELMS, Richard

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:
yey

Way, William : .
Spring 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION 4

CARD 1 of 2
OCCURRENCE:

HARVEY summarized the thrust of BISSELL's conversation with him concerning setting up an

ECULIVE ACTION CAPABILITY: "I have been charmed by the WHITE HOUSE with the development
an EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY. Will you please survey it and see what you can do about
and tell me what you can do about it." (44) :

To the best of his Imowledme, HELMS knew nothing, about the propram. (44) As far as
RVEY could recall, MELMS did not know about the program until he briefed HELMS about the

HARVEY testified that after he reported back to BISSELL, explaining his generally

vegative assessment of the EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY, that he was instructed to continue
ind at least make reasonable efforts to see what the CIA had in the way of assets without
communicating his objectives outside of a limited circle within the intelligence agency. (JIE

nroject, no agent or officer who
“as told about it; no operation was

Aside from determining if the CIA had an EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY be was instructed to
; 7 aos * f oe

east a 45) (con't)
SOURCE: TAFF;

aes ; Rhea

FILE: DATE:  30.6.75

CATEGORIES:

CARD 2 of 2

e best of his knowledre during the entire ee eee ion
had not been in on the project at the time of i te ore fon
s ever mounted; and no agent was recruited for p

st was ever drawn up. (45)

HARVEY testified that to th

and no. tentative-targeting abe

of assassination;
SEC 44h ima
STAFF:
SOURCE:
DATE:

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 71


PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT 2/61 CASTRO

HARVEY, WILLIAM EXECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIELE

OCCURRENCE:” Breckinridge testified that from his review of the files of Project
ZRRIFLE, the "controlling character'' (80) of the Project was to steal codes rather
than to develop the capability for assassination, (80)

Breckeinridge testified that on the face of the documents relating to Project
ZRRIFLE, the Project was only directed at stealing codes. The fact that it related
to developing the capability to assassinate came out in interviews with Williaa
Harvey. (81)

SOURCE BRECKINRIDGE testimony, 6/2/75

CATEGORIES?

[Is DATES:
‘SONS/ENTITT i WS: ie

re rd | 196] Pxecutive Action
ichard . - Cos .

ZR Rte

) chat Sof the
ubt that one

ne Foreign leaders.
setting up a capa
now overlap be-

“purposes

ther was
seer assassinating
yons regarding
He could recall
R Rifle (55).

CURRENCE: jlelms testified tage ty
Tile was to establish a capability eee s
‘ ms could not recall hearing oes)

i the assa nation of Castro. Ph
® Castro assassination programs
ie Cé

—- AAA

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 72


, PE ROUNS/ENT LL Lino? VATE? GAA Ues es oe
BISSELL, Fichard GOTTLIEB, Sidney , | — . ,
HARVEY > “ > y February 1961 1 EXECUTIVE ACTION ZRRIFL EC
I . (HARVEY's roug! CASTE
WHITE HOUSE estimate) STKO
SILVER, Arnold eceiteert COM EO

CCURRENCE;:
es the

BISSELL assipns to HARVEY / developing of "an
a general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.'* (37)

EXECUTIVE ACTION capability; i.e.

"HARVEY's notes quote BISSELL as saying, 'The WHITE HOUSE has twice urged me to create such
a capability.’ BISSELL recalls discussing the question of developing a géneral capability

with HARVEY." (37)

"HARVEY says that BISSELL had already discussed certain aspects of the problem with ARNOLD

SILVER and with SIDNEY GOTTLIEB." (37-38).

(continued) ied bof 2

SOURCE: I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-38

STAFF: Baron

FILE: DATE: — 28.6.75
CARD 2 of 2
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: TOP sticppsp
HELMS, Richard Leb 6f OO

OCCURRENCE: (continued from card 1)

HARVEY used SILVER in developing the EXECUTIVE ACTION capability (38).

Pugs stares that

Sometime shortly after this initial meeting, and while HARVEY was still discussing the

development of EXECUTIVE ACTION with BISSELL,.

concept but without mention of the then on-going plan to assassinate CASTRO." (38)

"he briefed Mr. HELMS fully on the general

~~ SOURCE: I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-30 [ STAFFY Baron

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 73


Sane

DATES:

CATEGORIES:
SOAS
BISSELL, Richard CUBA . ;
ICY (Executive Action)
HARVEY VO ep nse
ZERIELE

OCCURRENCE:
———_— ee

Bissell testified that he
lishing an £

assigned Har
xecutive

vey the task of estab-
Action project (p,. 73).

llowever, Bissell indicates th
that on J1/16/61 Harvey discu

(p.

at Harvey's note is
ssed with Bissell
74).

accuarate
“application

Of ZR/RIFLE to Cuba,"

STAPF:

Baron

DATE: 7/3/75

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
REET

! ee
sY t EXECUTIVE ACTION
TLL GD, 4 . / : a eee,

JCCURRENCE:

Y testified that BIESEDL haq never specified targets for the Executive Action
am (133) Bisset

JURCE:

Harvey 6/25/75 Rhea
“LE:

namer.

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 74


PERSONS/ENTITIES:

HARVEY, Willian
BISSELL, Richard
WHI'TE HOUSE

DATES: CATEGORIES:

EXECUTIVE ACTION G7

OCCURRENCE:

i Thre: _ 7
aids Ost
«ps : eo tty - . of 2s TEN,
HARVEY testified that during his initial conversation with BIS

BISSELL stated that the WHITE HOUSE had urged him to develop an EXECUTIVE AC TION OEE IOUS
(37) On further reflection, he was not certain whether BISSELL had said that the E Con
had urged him personally or whether it had simply urged other persons within the organizati

to look into the matter. (37) HARVEY did not know who in the WHITE HOUSE had done the urging.

80) HARVEY testified that during that meeting, BISSELL asked him to explore and assess the
field of assassination and the attendant problems and restrictions and requirements, ani

implied that the program would continue into an attempt to develop an assassination capability.

(37-A).
SOURCE:

STAFF:

HARVEY ‘TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, pp. 37 - 37-A Rhea

DATE?  30.6.75
FILE:
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES;
HARVEY, William Speineteér | mxncurrve acTION V
BISSELL, Richard February, 4 fl

OCCURRENCE:

eee

NARVEY testified that he had a conversation with BISSELL in which BISSELL asked him to
investisate a capability for EXECUTIVE ACTION. He had assumed the conversation toolc place
in the Spring of 1961, although, after having reviewed materials presented to him by the
Committee, he felt that it probably took. place in February 1961.

HARVEY testified that during this conversation, BISSELL said that he was concerned
about the CIA's capabilities to perform EXECUTIVE ACTION and about the various protections,
methods, techniques, decisions, and judgments as to its advisability. (3/-35) HARVEY dia
not recall whether BISSELL used the word "assassination," but he did say that "the implica~
tion was so clear as to be beyond any misunderstanding." (35) ,

SOURCE: “HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, pp. 335 STAPF? Rhea
PILE:

DATE? — 30.6.75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 75


A CATEGORIES: TO
——= ee
sree WELL LGM © ETERS

i P_SbCRE
Au Nov. 15, 1961 {| cuna — SYNDICATE/PHASE TT
ELMS, “Richard EDWARDS i ENE re 7 ay
“ BISSELL, Richard CASTRO, Fidel EXECUTE ACI On) opener
CIA-Cuba Task Force . CHD tof 2
OCCURRENCE?
OCCURRENCE

HARVEY discusses

z application of the 2RRIFLE/EXECUTIVE ACTION program to Cuba.
HELMS places HARVEY in charge of the CIA-Cuba Task Force.
"HARVEY has a note that

on that date he discussed with BISSELL
ZRRIFLE, program to Cuba. HARVEY Says that BISSELL instructed hi
with the CRIMINar, SYNDICATE

HARVEY adds: "Shortly after t
to be placed in charge of the

his discussion with BISSELL, he was told by HELMS that he was
Agency's Cuba Task Force." (39) :

(ECORIVE ABE JON-Cheondiegy._
Late 1961-early 1962 HARVEY en
led

. ily meetings concerning Cuba
About this time Cuba_overations of the ;

operations. (39-0)
mas Task Porce W flrmame we, 0) (
T.G. REPORT 1967, p. 39-49,
FAD Ge
; 2 . fF
PILE: 3 | eR,
le - ae
PERSONS/ENTITIpS; DATES: CATEGORIES:
:
CAD Zal2

OCCURRENCE:
SRURRENCE S

(continued from card 1)

HARVEY indicate that he ran the ¢
personally and not using any of ¢
TION program, for which he used

ASTRO Operation as one aspect of ZRRIFLE, handling
he assets bei, i

the general 2RRIFLE/EXECUT IVES
agent QIWIN. (49)

IE: Use this entry as well for the heading |

QR AMET

“STAPF?

—

DATE:

SOURCE:

FILE:

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 76


PERSONS/ENTITIES: - DATES: [ CATEGORIES:

BISSELL, Richard Nov. 16 |
HARVEY, William , i Cie

1961 i Ex j i
/. ecutive Action)
; ZRRIFCE
OCCURRENCE: a

BISSELL testifies that HARVEY 's note (I don't know the

source at this point) says on 11/16/61 that Ha i
with BISSEL "application of ZR/RIFLE to Cuba." (oe TI

SOURCE: — BISSELL TESTIMONY | Baron

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: I CATEGORIES:
PERSONS /ENTITEES
QUWIN 19 Feb 1962 | ae
HELMS : RESEE
(LNT HARVEY EXECUTIVE ACTION
TT HCCUR RENE T+

~ On 19 February 1962, Richard Helms, then DDP issued a
; memorandum for William k. Harvey; Subject: Authorization of
ZR/RIFLE Agent Activities.

"For the purpose of ZR/RIFLE activities, you are hereby
authorized to retain the services of Principal Agent QJWIN
and such other principal agents and sub-agents as may be
required. This authorization will continue to be in force
through 31 December 1962, subject to renewal at that time."

oy, "Because of the sensitive nature of this activity, accounting
. for funds will be by general category and by your certifi-
: cation." :
7 SOURCE: - rn STAFF:

IG REPORT, 1967 Baron

FILE: DATED ae = 1076

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 77


| VALEUURLES 2 UP Spunb
ICM S February 19, ioe EXECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIFLE :
Hie vey l

CCURRENCE:

a naan

First recorded approval of ZRRIFLE.

New DD/P HELMS authorized HARVEY

by a memorandum "to handle the
(38-39) accountine for expenditur

€s would be by gy

project on a special basis
seneral category on HARVEY's certification.
(39) ‘Initial approval: $14,700. (39)

SOURCE:

I.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 38-39 STAFF: Baron

FILE: DATE: 8.6.75
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES: ‘top SECRE
PERSONS/ENTITIES

CUEBOURC STATION 21 April 1964 EXECUTIVE ACTION

Ff
a5

ZREIFLE Vv

OCCURRENCE:

0 er
UWIN was terminated by the LUXEMBOURG STATION tems. (111) Gn Ly Aprrl 196 7.

"There is no indication in the Pile that the EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY of ZRRIFLE/QJWIN
was ever used." (411)

I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 41

FILE: DATE? 28.6.75

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 78


nn nennnene

nay Ve RL ADOT DATES: CATEGORIES:
a IN tA =e ete
) Spel

EXECUTIVE ACTION

BEE tas

Febraney, Hal

OCCURRENCE? wy Gs 8 alte fb

HARVEY testified that after his meeting with BISSELL concerning setting up an EXECUTIVE ACTION
PROGRAM, that he discussed » in theoretical terms, with a few officers whom he trusted the whole
subject of assassination, including whether assassination was a proper weapon of an American
intelligence service, and whether. it was in the CIA's capability to do it effectively and
properly, securely and discreetly. (37-A - 38) -
He concluded that assassinations could be used only rarely, and then under carefully
controlled conditions, and, as a result of the greatest provocation. Secondly, there were
several caveats about the technical effectiveness of the CIA in carrying out this type of
operation. (38) His ultimate conclusion was that the CIA did not have the assets. ‘There

were no staff officers who were capable of this kind of direct -action or to whom he would have
been willing to delegate authority to carry out such action. (39)

HARVEY testified that he decided that assassinations w re generally impracticable
d reported his conclusions to _both BISSELL and HELMS, Coy

SOURCE? HARVEY TESTIMONY, June 25, 1975, pp. 37-A - Uo

“LES } TEGORIES: + BORIS
PERSONS/ENTITIES : | CATEGORIES TOP SECRISL

eR hE O'DONNELL, Justin | way 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION V~
WIN BISSBLL, Richard Hischmuary 19, 15D. Peekls

SILVER, Arnold Eb 961. RR

LUMUMBA, Patrice . cb.

OCCURRENCE:

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -suigmme- program came to be known as ZRRIFLE. Its Berea cin] nena
an agent, QUWIN, who had been recruited earlier by ARNOLD SILVER For use on see tae
tion “in the Congo (the assassination of PATRICE LUM MBA), to be run eae nasuseination
(O'DONNELL made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no eB)

attempt » and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted). 3

SOURCE: —T.G. REPORT 1967, p. 30

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 79


FENOUNS/ENTITIES:
I EES

DATES: | CATEGORIES: :
Spemes= tet | EXECUTIVE ACTION” id

CCURRENCE: arvey was asked about notes written-b
meeting in January of 1961, concerning Executive Action. One portion of the notes
Stated, "Be within KUBARK, one focal point for control, search, training, case
officering, etc. -- GDP authority in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially
advised?" (57) Harvey testified that he did not know whether the DCI was advisedy.
that he had been asked to create a capability for Executive Action and had taken
certain steps to have an assessment of assets in that connection, (57) Harvey
clarified that the wording of the memo probably meant that consideration should be ”
given to the question of how, whether and under what circumstances the DCI should be
officially advised of his program, "I want to make it clear that this in no way
means he should be advised. He should not be advised, he should never be advised,
re should always be advised." eee le testified that this matter would have been
Prought up again at any time ther HfBine Act) OAePagiect ed to specific targeting :
or specific operation or Sheci fy | BBP BPE ae ass OSG, (59) i
SAGE? HARVEY TESTIMONY, June By QUE, poe areas Ei STAENT Rhea :
# eg Pe Ca fo

HARVEY, WILLIAM
SILVER, ARNOLD.
KUBARK

FILE: DATE: 6/30/75 '
I
if
i
i

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Harvey. William Gottlieb, Syd i /
1/25/61 - | EXECUTIVE ACTION

Core da

hn . ; Truj ule
to

OCCURRENCE? Harvey recalled some details of his conversation with Syd Gottlieb
on January 25, 1961. It was a general philosophic discussion of assassination
and assassination and techniques. As Ilarvey recalled, there was simply a general A
discussion of assassination as an intelligence service technique and weapon. It
was logical for Gottlieb to #& present at this discussion, because he had taken over
a new job as Chief of the Technical Services Division of the Clandestine Services.
As such, the TSD would have been responsible for technical support for assassinations.
54 ,
( ne notation in Ilarvey's notes from that meeting, stating, "last resort beyond
last resort, a confession of weakness," was, Ilarvey recalled, "a sort of concept
of operation philosophy which I expressed to Gottlieb." (54-55). As Harvey recalled,
the logical. candidates fo: i i his period,were Trujillo, Lumumba, and
Castro. They were not ber i bal au but they were three people
that might come to mind ink} ation (55).
SOURCE: HARVEY TESTIMONY a 5

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 80


PERSONS/ENTIV TRS + DATES: CATEGORIES:

na . aaa he
: Jan.26, 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION

HARVEY

| 2pr ble VA
OCCURRENCE:

Harvey's handwritten notes entitled Project Zrriffle (exhibht 1) state "identification:
the purpose of project Zrriffle is to spot, develop and use agent assets for dividison D
Operations. Agents will be Spotted in several areas, including the United States but

SOURCE:

STAFF:
Harvey 6/25/75

DATE: — Rhea
6/30/75

HARVEY

OCCURRENCE: :
The notes in Harvey's handwriting entitled Project Zrriffle state "3,

Background:
response to the increasing requirements for the operational procurement of foreign
code and cipher materials, division A in 1960 began spotting of agent assets as a
developmental activity. During the same period requirements from NSA became more

refined and in many respects more sentative because most agencies are not equipped
to conduct this type of operation, and because of the desirability to completely centralize
control over this entire effort, it was determined that division d which was the closest

1, page 1 - 2)

SOURCE:

err Harvey 6/25/75 H nee

HW 50955 DoclId:32423616 Page 81


PERSONS/ENTITIFS: DATES: CATEGORIES:
eee ae me
Jan.26, 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION “

zr ble

HARVEY

OCCURRENCE:

Harvey's handwritten notes entitled Project Zrriffle (exhibht 1) state "identification:
the purpose of project Zrriffle is to spot, develop and use agent assets for dividison D
Operations. Agents will be spotted in several areas, including the United States but

er division areas. The projects will be

ee FOP SEGRE Y

STAFF:

SOURCE:

Harvey 6/25/75

DATE: _ Rhea
6/30/75

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES: op gncrp
PERSONS/ENTITIES SRRORTES? TOP SECRET
SRREPEE

ECUTIVE ACTION/ZRRIFLE J

OCCURRENCE:

Cover: "Project ZRRIFLE was covered as an FI/D opera tion (os
for entering safes and for kidnapping couriers) ." (39) .

tensibly to develop a capability

SOURCE: I.G. REPORT, p. 39 [ STAFF: Baron

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 82


r ERNOUNS/ENTLULIES ¢ DATES: ! CATEGORIES:
HARVEY Jan 26, 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION

ZR Rife

OCCURRENCE: a Hl y
el i lew 18
\{Harvey's hadwritten notes entitled Project Zrriffle (exhibit 1) state "ébjectives™!

' The objectives of this project is the procurement of code decipher materials, and
information concerning such materials, in accordance with requirements levied on the
clandestine services, primarily by the NASA security agency. Since these requirements
are subject to frequent revision, no listing of targets would be valid for the duration
of the project. Specific operations will be mounted on the basis of need and
Opportunity. “the Project will be conducted by division B with assistance from area
divisions and stations as needed.” (exhibht 1)

Harvey testified that his notes didnot cite assassination or assassination capability as
an objective of project Zrriffle. However, assassination was a contemplated purpose of the
project. If an agent had been recruited for assassination he would have been recruited
under the cover of obtaining code and cipher materials. (49)

SOURCE: ; STAFF:
Harvey 6/25/75 . Rhea
FILE: ; DATE: 6/30/75
PERSONS/ENTITIES DATES: CATEGORIES: ©
HARVEY
K. G. WIN
OCCURRENCE: : Rady fe 5

Harvey's handwritten notes eneitled Project Zrriffle state
(1) personnel: K.G. Win is under written contact as a principal agent, with the primary
task of spotting agent candidates. K.G. Win was first contacted in 1958 to the Chief

of the Luxembourgis by the chief of station, Luxembourg , in connection with illegal
narcotics operation into the United States. . For aperiod of a year and a half he was
contacted spareatically by cos, Inxembourg, in behalf of the Bureau of Narcotics. Files
of this Bureau reflect an excellent performance by K. G. Win. In October 1960:

K. G. Win annual salary $7,200 Hire of safe houses and other
Travel and OBS expenses for K. G. Win and automobile expenses $1,000
other agents and agent candidates $2,000 Total $14,700

Fees for services by and standby of agents and agent candidates $2,000

is) on
(awry —erbet ha 7 ae 7 ay

HW 50955 DocId:32423616 Page 83
