# 157-10011-10071

## Page 1

157-10011-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 10/06/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10071

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

m a m m mo

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

FROM : SCHHARZER, ILITAM

TITLE :

PAPERS RE CUBA; INTERVIEWS; INTERNAL MEMOS, ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

DATE : 02/12/75

PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS :

PAPERS RE CUBA; INTERVIEWS; INTERNAL MEMOS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

:P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

SSCI Box 287, Folder 19 •

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32203839

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Thos

i to

taned

Associate Baitor El Nuevo

San Juan,

Itinez,

recently working in Panama, now

Costa Rica

Paul Chibas,

Focmer #2 man in Manolò Ray's MRP,

westbury

Salvador Aldereguia,

a Mitami

It. Col. Varela

castro,

Felipe Pazos, D.C.i

May

ami

now be

in Caracas

Justo Carrillo

D.C.

Guis Aguilar

D.C.

rony Varona, NYC

Cap

Despaigner Miami,

now

• & MAR 14

(1)(A)

50955

DocId: 32203839

Page

2

---

## Page 3

- 3 -

arrested and put to a lie detector test.

But the

CIA slipped him a pill that so disoriented him

as to throw off the test and the matter petered out.

Also since the Bay of Pigs: Cubans were

recruited in Miami to fight in the Congo. They

were recruited to plant bombs at Expo 67 and on the

U.S.- Mexican borders.

(The objective was to

punish Canada and Mexico for playing footsie with

Fidel by discouraging tourism.) CIA agent

tto,

was killed ina small plane crash while trying

to smuggle §1 million in gems into the U.s.i

the CIA hushed it up.

A Cuban explained how the Cubans got into

Watergate: "They were used to us. When Bay of Pigs.

operatives like Hunt moved over to Watergate they

sent for their old Cubanos. They work a little

like a Mafia, "he continued. "When they want to

issue an anti-Communist contract or what looks like

an anti-Communist contract, they contact us.

We're reliable, intelligent, professional. And

we're learning to keep our mouths shut. We're

learning to live with this. And we fear the

Company. We know the Company. The Company can drop

a word and change your life. You don't get a job or

a loan for your business, or you're in trouble

NW 50955

DocId: 32203839

Page 3

764474497

---

