157-10014-10018| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/04/95
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10018
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 05-H-02

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SSCSGO
BUNDY, MCGEORGE

07/11/75

168

BUNDY, MCGEORGE
ROSTOW, WALT
CASTRO, FIDEL

cIA

OPERATION MONGOOSE
TRANSCRIPT
UNCLASSIFIED

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
05/12/98

Box 2

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955 DocId:32423406 Page 1


INVENT! pico:
Report of Proceedings 4.4 af?
Coo °

ee

Hearing held before

ct committee to study Governmental

senate Sele’
telligence Activ:

operations With Respect to In Aties

——_——

peiday, July lt, 1975

\

2: Washington, D.C.

: —_——
(stonotype Tape, and Waste turned over
sree committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

STREET, 8.

410 FIRST
ON, D. C. 20003

WASHINGT!



20003

eet, 5.6., wasmngton, 0.6.

TESTIMONY OF

McGeorge Bundy

Bundy No. 1

Bundy No. 2A
Bundy No. 2B
Bundy No. 2¢

bundy No. 2D
Bundy No. 2

Bundy No. 3

| nundy No. 3A

Bundy No. 3B
Bundy No. 4

|
i
| bundy No. 5
14 i
i
ag [Boney Bow 6

Bundy No. .6-A
16 ndy No ?

Bundy No. 6-B

a7 |
"pundy No. 6-C
18 it i

punay No. 6-D
{

| punay No. 6-E
20 |

Bundy No. 6-F
a i

|unay No. 6-G
24

Vpunay No. 6-1
ah

TOP SECRET



west Sureets SE. W9IHI

aio Fe

1

+ COMMITTEE MEETING
friday, July ll, 1975

United States Senate,
select Committee to study Governmental
operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C-
phe Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 8:40 a-mer
in Room S-407, phe Capitol, senator prank Church (Chairman)
| presiding.
present: Senators church (presiding) + Hart of Michigan,
Mondale, Morgan, Hart of Colorado, Tower, Bakery Mathias and
gchweiker.
Also present? prederick A. 0. Schwarz, gr., Chief

counsel; Curtis R. smothers, Minority Counsel; Charles

i
| Lombard, Patrick Shea, David Aaronr Robert Kelley Frederick
4

i Baron and Michael Madigan professional Staff Members:
i ‘7



e .

000.
es

0-6

220030 ¢ 4 ~~

“ao Furst Street, $.€., Washington, O.C. 20003

qhe Chairman. The hearing will please come to order.

Mr. Bundy, would you please ‘stand and take the oath.

Do you swear that the testimony you will give in this
hearing will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but
the truth, so help you God?

Mr. Bundy. I do.

the Chairman. Mr. Schwarz.

TESTIMONY OF McGEORGE BUNDY

Mr. Schwarz. Would you state your full name and address
for the record, please?

Me. Bundy. My name is McGeorge Bundy. TI live in New
York. My home address is 1040 Fifth Avenue.

Mr. Schwarz. And you are currently the Chairman or the
president of the Ford Foundation?

Mr. Bundy. The President of the Ford Foundation

Mr. Schwarz. In the Kennedy Administration what position
did you hold?

tic. Bundy. I was Special Assistant for National Secure
ity Affairs.

tie, Schwarz. And you held that all the way through the

| Kennedy Administration and for how many years in the Johnson

Administration?
Mr. Bundy. I held that office from the beginning of the

Kennedy Administration to the end of February 1966.

Mr, Schwarz. prior to commencing work with the Kennedy

TOP SECRET



Aaministration,
qntelligence Agency?

Mr. Bundy. I had 2 prother who worked ‘gor many years in
the Central Intelligence ngency. 1 occasionally talked with
members of the Agency during the forties and the fifties, both |
about substantive questions of what one thought about the
conditions in the soviet union, and occasionally also about
efforts that they were then making to recruit talented

graduates of colleges:

I

Mr. Schwarz. You mentioned your brother: to put somen

1. | thing of a different “ina in the record than we have gotten
1

2 | recently: would you recount the position taken py Allan Dulles

|

ij 2950'S

43 | in connection with the problem that your prother had in the

15 mr. Bundy. Wells MY prother cane under attack from

16 \ senator Joseph McCarthy. And the ground was, as T recall

it, in general that he had been a friend and supporter of
Alger Hiss and was therefore not to he trusted in a place

as sensitive a5 the Central Intelligence Agency:
20 | Allan Dulles ~~ and my impression 35 that this was

i
a; | auite characteristic of him ~~ took an extremely firm stand

\
ap fon this matter, and stood by his estimate that my brother was

i in fact in no sense 4 security risk, rather, to the con-
trary. And the defense was successful, and my prother

ued in the Central Intelligence Agency yntil the Kennedy



| 5.€.. wasmington, 0.€. 20003

Administration came in, at’ which time he moved over to the

| Defense Department.

Mr. Schwarz. We have indicated to you that we are going
to discuss the countries of Cuba, the Dominican Republic and
Vietnam, although not much on Vietnam. And the majority and
minority staff have shown you some documents of that period,
some 15 years ago. Before I get to those three countries,

I would like to ask you some questions about a subject
called Executive Action, Have you ever heard of the subject
called Executive Action?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, I have.

Mr. Schwarz. When did you first hear of it?

Mr. Bundy. Well, as, I have told your staff, that is a real
difficulty for me, because I cannot pinpoint the time at

which I heard of it. My impression was that it was some time

i
| in the early months of 1961.

Mr. Schwarz. And do you have a recollection as to the

context in which you heard about it, the person from whom you

i
i heard about it, and will you provide to the Committee your

\ full recol’ection of the subject of Executive Action in the
| early 1961?

Mr. Bundy. Would it help if I try to describe ina
| general way what I now understand of this matter, the

part which is recollection and the part which is clarified

by discussions with the staff and what I now think about it?

TOP SECRET



c
ined
@
oO
a
CC
<
Lo

WARo & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, O.C. 20003

i
i
i

Mr. Schwarz. Would you distinguish, though, the part
that is recollection and the part that is based upon other
matters?

Mr. Bundy. That is exactly what I would like to do.
the part that is recollection is very vague. And I
would say that I have no recollection of more than one conver-

sation on this subject. And the impression that sticks in
1

my mind is that I was told about it in a general way. And
it was described to me as an effort to study through the
|

possibilities by which one might act against an individual
i

| in a context other than that of espionage and counter-espionage,|

a context more political. i
5 i
Mr. Schwarz. When you say “act against an individual",
act in what fashion? i
Mr. Bundy. Act in a variety of fashions, as I recollect
it, but up to and including killing the individual. |
The two things that I think are clear in my recollection
about that -- three -- one, that it was a concept presented
or described to me -- I was in effect being briefed on it.
qwo, that it was entirely an untargetted -- that it
was in no sense a plan to do anything to anyone.
And third, and I think quite important, that it was

not anoperation which had any specific target.

Mr. Schwarz. You said you were in effect briefed on it.

By whom?

TOP SECRET

dene

Pee



Mr. Bundy. that is what I don't know. I cannot
recollect who it was. And I think it inapproprate to guess
when I have no recollection.

Mr. Schwarz. What time? I don't mean what time of day,
but what time?

Mr. Bundy. As T say, sometime I think in the early
months of 1961. And searching memory 15 an uncertain busi-
ness, but it sticks in my mind that I heard about it in the
rooms of the Executive Office puilding. And that
would place it in time, because T moved from. the Executive

office Building to the West basement of the White House sometime

after the Bay of Pigs, perhaps in May- 1
i

Pree ge pe place it in

time sometime prior to the Bay of Pigs and sometime after-~

Mr. Bundy. After my arrival in washington.

Mr, Schwarz. An@ when did you arrive +n Washington?

Mr. Bundy, About the 10th of January- 1 would place
ie more closely, because T think it was after I was in the
office of the Special Assistant, which, of course, was occupied
until the 20th of January by others.

Mr. Schwarz. So you place it after the 20th of January,
put before the Bay of Pigs, which was april 14 or 17?

Mr. Bundy. That is right.

me. Schwarz, Did it come up in @ context where you

urged that such a capacity be created?

TOP SECRET



Mr. Schwarz. What context aid it come up in?

Mr. Bundy. Tt came up in @ context in which it was being
described to me by someone else- ane that is really about
as far as I can take it with precision.

Mr. Schwarz. WAs it described to you by someone else

as a capacity. in being?

nc. Bundy. AS a capacity ~~ and this is not something
I want to be too certain about, Mr- Schwarz, but my recollec-
tion would be that it was @ capacity coming into being-

Mr. Schwarz. Now, receiving that information, did you
1 take any steps to discourage OF dissuade the person, whoever
| ge was, who was describing to you the capacity coming
into being?

Mr. Bundy. What I recollect is that I was satisfied with

the description T received on two points.
First, that this was not an operational activity, and
t become such without two conditions first, that
a desire or a “request OF a guidance that there
should be planning against some specific individual; and
second, that there should be 4 decision to move against an
individual.
Being satisfied that these two things were not happen-

and 1 am now giving you 3 reconstruction rather than

a precise recollection ~~ r am confident that what T did was

TOP SECRET

\
i
i



to place this notion ‘in the category of hypotheticels, of
things with no current urgency to them, and in that sense
not a question that ried for attention in the sense that
so many others did. If T may make a straightforward: compari=

son, we were, I think, even before the inauguration, but

certainly very quickly thereafter, very heavily engaged in
a real question of choice, which was the question of choices
around what would you do with the Cuban brigade which led

eventually to the Bay of Pigs. And that occupied a very

large amount of time and attention, as did the crisis in Berlin
i
i

| and the crisis in Laos.

In’the same period there were briefings on contingency

plans for the uses of nuclear weapons, other weapons, and 2

, | whole swarm of,sort of, and here were reports that came
naturally to the Special Assistant's office, which was also

peing reorganized.

go, 1 think that what I aid was simply to put this one
+t cannot claim to have thought about it seriously,
| pecause it was in the flow of pusiness that would come to ENE
special Assistant's office.
oy ieee ea) wane eo eC eeaicay be more precise
g to check on what other evidence we have. We have

rc evidence that discussions of this matter were going

sbxo First Street. $:€., Wasminaton, O-C; 70002

24 \ on in the Central Intelligence agency on the 25th and 26th

H
26 | of January 1961.

TOP SECRET



3

Lat

»
Ly
c
a
nn

10 First Street, S.£., Wasnington, 0.C. 20003

Now, are you able to testify with respect to the likeli-
hood of the conversation you have recounted taking place
prior to the 25th or the 26th of January 1961.

Mr. Bundy. I would rate it very, very unlikely.
This is a matter I have thought about since you did mention
those dates to me. And I would say that the chance that
within the first four days after being sworn in I would have
been drawn to consider this question is, from my side, as
near zero as I can put it. I had been teaching international
relations over a period of ten years + I was deeply interested
in many of the immediate problems, most notably the problem of

the crisis in Berlin and the concomitant question of relations

| with the Soviet Union. And I was preoccupied with all of

the things that happened when you moved to Washington from
helping the Secretary to buy a house, and working out a
staff, and I was under instruction from the President to
reorganize the White House National Security staff. This
subject was far out of my mind, and I would not have brought.
it up. I doubt that anyone wouldhave brought it to
me in those early days.

The Chairman. May I interrupt for a moment.

As I understand your testimony, Mr. Bundy, you were

| briefed on the concept of Executive capability sometime early

in 1961, and you can't remember now who it was who briefed you.

Do you recall whether or not you instructed anyone at

TOP SECRET



410 First Street, 5.€., Waimington, B.C. 20003

Prone (Ares 202) 44°61

|
|

‘the CIA to develop such a capability?

Mr. Bundy. I am sure I gave no instruction. But it is
only fair to add that I do not recall that I offered any
impediment after I was briefed.

fhe Chairman. But your best recollection is that some-
body toldyou that such a capability was being developed?

Mr. Bundy. I don't want to be too firm on that, but that

| would be my best recollection.

The Chairman. We received testimony from Mr. Bissell.

Are you acquainted with Mr. Bissell?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, sir. I have known him a long time, and
he has been a great friend of mine.

The Chairman. Mr. Schwarz,-since you are very familiar
with the record, are you going to take Mr. Bundy through the
record of Mr. Bissell's testimony?

Mr. Schwarz. Mr, Bissell testified --

The Chairman. And we have the transcript, If it would

tbe helpful for Mr. Bundy to look directly at the transcript

I think he should have it.

Mr. Schwarz. Mr. Bissell'’s testimony was, first, that

lin the first instance he said he did not recall any specific

conversation. ‘Then, however, he said, after having reviewed

|
certain notes by Mr. Harvey, he concluded that if Mr. Harvey's

| note indicated, as they did, that he, Bissell, told Harvey

in 1961 that he had been twice urged by the White House to set

TOP SECRET



up an Executive Action capability, then he had no reason to
doubt that testimony. And then he went on through a series
of comments to end up saying that he would have been given
that urging by either Rostow or Bundy, more likely Rostow.

First, let's focus on Rostow. Was Rostow involved in
the briefing?

Mr. Bundy. No -~ now, that T can't tell you out of my
recollection, but only out of my knowledge of the way the

office was organized. The first things we did, Walt Restow

\

and I, was to work out an informal but nevertheless reasonably
clear-cut division of labor. And the whole business of

what I thought of as special group pusiness, namely, matters
that related to covert action, and would, if they came for

division, come through the special group, fell on my side

|
|
|
|

of that division. 1 don't recall that. Mr. Rostow was ever

\
|
involved in any matter of this sort. |

the Chairman. It is fair to say that this was: Mr. Rostow's
testimony. 4

Gillgenuac ed] Mes biased marie Oo icay ict friend of

g standing, and still is a friend of yours?

ington, ©.€. 20002

Yes, he is.
ur, Schwarz. Wehave his testimony which, while it did
have gradations within it, ended up saying that

he believed either you or Mr. Rostov urged him to set up the

ajo First Street, SE

Executive Action capability. And you have testified that the

N
| TOP SECRET



fact is that you were given a briefing, and you didn't urge it,

|
; |
|
|

but on the other hand you didn't say it should stop.

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000,

How can you explain, if you can, the testimony of your
friend Mr. Bissell, and the contrast between that and
your testimony?
Mr. Bundy. Well, as I understand Mr. Bissell's testi-~ |
mony -- and I should add, so that there will.be no misunder-
standing, that I have not only the advantage of discussions with)

you, but I have talked with him about it -- as I understand !
that testimony. from that conversation, he was trying to ex-
| plain a situation in which he had no reason to question an Agenci
i
history to the effect that he first gave instructions on this |
matter in February 1961. And in that context ~- and he had |
no reason to question the report that he had received i
White House encouragement -- it is in that context that his
| speculations about Mr. Rostow and about me seen to fall.

I would be surprised, if his memory were refreshed

with respect to the dates of January which you have: des~ \
cribed to me, if he were to believe that any initiative in

| this enterprise would come in the first instance from the

jy Kennedy Administration.

The Chairman. Mr. Bundy, our transcript of the

| Bissell testimony makes it-clear that Mr. Bissell himself
!
| toes not dispute the documented record. He said in effect

i£ Marvey says that I told him that I had been twice instructed

TOP SECRET

i
i
|
\
i



cpone (atra 202) 544-6000

ga€., Withington, 0.C. 20003

1
|
|
i

by the White flouse to develop an Executive capability. 1
have no basis on which to dispute that record.
hen when we asked him, very well, who in the White

House told you, and when were you told, he replied, it

| must have been early in 1960, and I don't recall who told me,

put it must have been either Rostow or Bundy.

Ne then recounts that he had numerous conversations
with both of you during the period, and concludes that the
instruction must have come either from you or from Mr. Rostow-

Now, Mr. Rostow tells us he never gave such an instrucy
tion, and in fact has no memory of every having discussed
such an instruction.

Mr. Bundy. le would have in fact have had no authority

@ such an instruction.

whe Chairman, That is right~

And he pointed that out.

Mr. Bundy. And in fact T wouldn't have the aw
to give any such instruction, and I would have been

h instruction.

senator Baker. Who would have had the authofity?

Mr. Bundy. If the authority were required outhide the
AGency it would have to have been the President hinpelf.

ghe Chairman. what T would like to’ ask you -~

Mr. Bundy. Could I continue with Senator Baker's

ne second.



Prone (Area 202) 544-6000

My own impression as to this matter -- and I have already
testified to the fact that I am relying on a recollection of
a meeting of which there is no record -~ is that had I been

briefed on this essentially hypothetical internal, undirected

character, it did not appear to me to be a matter that required

further authority outside the CIA. That may or may not have
been right, but that is the quick judgment I appear to have
reached. Because I certainly did not raise the question with
others.

Senator Baker. Do you recall that, Mr. Bundy, or is that
your surmise?

Mr. Bundy. That is my reconstruction more than my ~~
I know I did not raise it, I did not press the question, and
I did not feel, therefore, that it was a question that needed
further analysis, and it did not, so far as I know, get
further consideration inthe White House. My own recollection
is that I didn'thear the words again in any serious con-
text that I can recall until this year.

The Chairman. © And you cannot recall who it was who
briefed you?

Mr. Bundy. I really cannot.

Mr. Schwarz. Can you narrow the field?

Mr. Bundy. I can narrow the field. It would have to have
been a senior officer at the Agency, or someone with previous

understanding in the White House. I have no reason to suppose

TOP SECRET



prone (Ares 202) 544-6000

‘5.2, Wasminaton, -C: 20003

aio Fast streets

{
4
4
i

that it was the latter, put I cannot exclude that.

the Chairman. Might it have been Bissell himself?

Mr. Bundy, It surely might have Peen-

he Chairman, Based upon your best recollection of that
priefing, you have already testified that you interpose no
objection?

Mr. Bundy. I am pretty sure T satisfied myself as to

| the character of the enterprise. But I did not interpose an

objection.

qhe Chairman, Do you recall, then, having reported the

| briefing to the president?

Mr. Bundy. No, I don't.
The Chairman. pid it strike you ~~ before I ask that
question, hased upon your pest recollection of the briefing,

ier youieolattnaienialweeiatiay capability that was being

developed, or were you told simply that the Agency possessed

such a capability?
Mr. Bundy. I would put it that the Agency was working on
such a capability, but without any great sense of precision
whe Chairman. Were you given the impression at
that briefing that the Agency was seeking your authority oF
the authority of the White House?
mr, Bundy.I think they were testing my reaction, as
1 now look hack on it. But 1 do not recall that they were

If it had come to me as a matter of White



House authority» I know from the context 77 MY own concept

of my job what t would have done.
what would you have done?

the Chairman+
zt would have had

to take the matter to the

Mr. Bundy+
president, because 7 had no independent authority-
qhe Chairman. And you have testified thae you did not

take the matter to the president?
ne, pundy. AS far 28 T tetera at acura
whe Chairman. Welly this is a subject dealing, as it
goes, with the development of @ capability to Kill that would
have peen of the character that if you had been asked for
wuld have discussed with the president?

we. Bundy. That is right-
ana furthermore, 39 it not a subject of

The chairman.
cter that you would be very likely 0 recall?
Bundy+ If t had been asked for authority y would
if I were the gnitiating or deciding agent, tT

had that role.

5 would recall that I had

you speak of the seriousness of tt tt deals with a
one of the sobering facts about coming
side into a sensitive position
jike that one +8 the number of things on which you are priefed
; y to will: contingency plans

A which deal with the capahilit

b for protecting West nerlin, contingencyY plans for the use of
a shade more Femote, perhaps:

apons

_- shelf plans;

i nuclear



for the use of different kinds of gases ~~ an operational plan
for the invasion of Cuba -- these were uncertainties as to
whether there would have to be military landings in Laos. In
the context of 1961 -- and I am not in any sense trying to un-
derstate the seriousness of the context of 1975-- this was a
| nypothetical kind of a thing with two strong locks between
it and any decision, And ‘I-sifply didn't pay it the attention
then that we are paying to it now. We are right to pay
that. attention now.

The Chairman. I understand that very well. And this
| committee is endeavoring in every way it can to place this
whole issue within the context of the time, Nevertheless, we
are faced with a very real dilemma. We know that at the very
time you were being briefed the Agency was not only interested

jn developing a capability, but was in fact engaged in a

| series of attempts to assassinate Castro, and had been in-

i volved in other murder plots and murder attempts against the
leaders of certain foreign governments.

i he question we are endeavoring to answer 15 whether

4

| the agency had been authorized by the policy makers of the

py | government to engage in this activity, or whether it was

ox | operating fast and loose on a wild gambit of its own in an

2 | area of extreme sensitivity that could have the most serious

repercussions upon the government of the U.S. and its

“210 Furst Siveet, SE. Wosmengton, .C. 20003

reputation in the world.

TOP SECRET



wasnington, @.€. 20803

ayo First Streets SE

(
7 |
\

\

we are told by Mr. Bissell, who apparently was not only

a very good friend of yours, Dut also a very good friend of Mr-
Rostow's ~~
Mr. Bundy. That is right-
he Chairman, -~ a man whose credibility as a witness
would seem to have to be respected ~~ that he was at least
engaged in developing such 4 capability on direct instructions
from the White House.
put when we pressed him for specifics, his testimony
He can't remember just who 3 was who
spute the record, which says that in effect
he so advised Mr. Harvey when he engaged Mr. Harvey to develop
and everyone else of high authority in
the Administration that we have questioned so far testifies

that it was not the policy of the Administration to engage in

assassination, and no such attempts were ever authorized,

and indeed, with the, exception of one occasion in the Special
Group, the subject never even surfaced for discussion.
And when it did, if it did, it was quickly shot down.
Nevertheless, the CIA was in fact embarked upon such
attempts during the period under review.
now, we are led to conclude either that we are not
being told the truth concerning the policy of the Administratres

which is very hard for me to accept, given the reputation of
\
that have cone before us, for integrity and



prone (Ares 202) $44-6000

70003

aio rust street, $.€.. Yeasninaton, O-C

H
i
i

truthfulness, or that the CIA was running wild, and acting on
its own initiative, engaging in murder plots, murder attempts, |

and not informing, let alone securing the authority from,

)

t

those in government who held the responsibility, which in a way |
|

is even more frightening.

Now, you tell us that you remember being briefed. You '
don't remember advising the President. It didn't seem too

important at the time.Did you ever follow -up on whether such

| a capability had in fact been perfected by the agency?

Mr. Bundy. 1 don't recall pursuing the matter at}all,
Mr. Chairman, any more than I would have pursued any other
shelf capability on which no question was heing pushed fo me
either from below or above.

If I may.go back and comment on one aspect of your,

t think, important and impressive description of

ye | the difficulty the committee faces, I am sure that if in the

ye

arly months of 1961 I had known what I now know, jm part from
from discussions with your staff,

about what was really in trainy T would have had a very

i
gy | different approach.

Senator Mondale. Mr. Chairman.
qghe Chairman, Senator Mondale.
Senator Mondale. yesterday Secretary Rusk testified be-

fore us. And some of the minutes OF notes made following one

of themeetings of the Special Group Augmented at least suggest

TOP SECRET



at
©
m
©
ion
ic
c
ra
~

prone {Ares 202) 564-6000

that the question of assassination occurred. And, Mr. Rusk
said, did you think anyone would bring that up at a town
meeting? And by that I gather he meant that these meetings
had large attendance from all different groups and prinicples
and staff assistants and so on, and as & result, if there
were matters of exceeding delicacy, that was not the forum
at which such matters would be discussed.

would you comment on that?

Mr. Bundy. Yes. My impression would be that the

secretary was probably referring to the much discussed meeting

| of August 10, 1962.

senator Mondale. Right.

Mr. Bundy. ‘That was a large meeting, 16 or 18 people.
and the comment seems to be pertinent to that meeting. The
Special Group as such, the one which I would have had in
mind, for example, in early 1961, was set up under a national
security regulation of some sort whose number was 54/12.

Senator Mondale.’ That was the Special Group.

Mr. Bundy. That was the special Group. And the Special

+ Group in and of itself was quite @ small group.

Senator Mondale. But people would’ volunteer to attend -
Mr. Bundy. No.

Senator Mondale. They would not?

me. Bundy. No. ‘The meeting of August 10 is a very

special meeting in a variety of respects. That included -~

TOP SECRET



prone {Area 202) 544-6000

wano & PAUL

410 First StreetsS.€.. Wesnington, D.C, 20003

The Chairman; You were present at that meeting?

Mr. Bundy. I was present. My memory is entirely
a refreshed memory on this, I had no recollection of the
meeting until recent months. But I have found a scratch
pad that I apparently doodled on on that date, and it
shows who was there, and not much else.

: Mr. Schwarz. There were some beautiful drawings.
Mr, Bundy. There were.

They were not very beautiful drawings.

The Special Group Augmented met in August -- and this

|| does coincide with my general recollection of the matter --
[as response to concerns wihch were first, I think, and most
i energetically pressed by Mr. McCone with respect to, what the

i hell are the Russians doing in Cuba. And that was the center

| of that meeting, and the center of later meetings, and the cen-
i

} ter of a national security action memorandum of considerable
complexity which was put out toward the end of August, most

\ of which dealt with this question, how do we know what they

+ j are going to do, what do we do if they do it, and so forth,

2.

with respect to missiles in Cuba.
tt was therefore in a sense much more than an. ordinary
MONGOOSE meeting, let alone a Special Group meeting. And

while I quite agree with the Secretary that that meeting as

i
oa |

‘ planning session for anything as horrendous as assassina~

g | tion is implausible in the extreme. “Quite serious covert

| TOP SECRET



HW 50955

eal

1 | actions were discussed in the special Group. And as your
2 | committee pursues its studies of covert action it will find i

at that group is the ynodal point for policy decisions, good

or bad, well or badly handled. And that was quite a small

group:

senator Mondale. The yeason I ask that is that it seems

to me that the Chairman's question pursues the two a eeeeivees|
i
I

either what we now know to have occurred was ordered at the
9 highest level, or at @ very high level, such as the Special |

19 | Group Augmented, or they operated on their own, in which case

they were out of control and irresponsible, or there was some

oxtra communications system that went around the formal struc”

ture that we have peen examining, and would account for the sen

i
at of authority that these operators testified to when they
{ were with us-

Now, their testimony was not very specific. they said,

\
17 || we thought we had authority, and we think we heard from
somebody, and so on-

\

what are the changes, pased upon your experience; that

there was such extra official communications and order passit'

sites, Senator Baker. Before Mr. Bundy answers, I might say

to Senator Mondale that I am struck by the first paragraph

23 ' of the Inspector General's report, which we don't have here
f
24 | now, I don't believe, but as 1 remember it, it sayS- it is

difficult to reconstruct history of assassination plots, becau:

l
TOP SECRET

25



HW 50955 Docl

| of the high sensitivity: ¢'the subject matter, no written

-ecoras were kept, and it wag not discussed at open meetings.
phat is generally what was said. And it seems to me that is

implying, then, that as a matter of policy there was no

formalization of this sort of communication.

6 ( rt am sorry to interrupt.
aH. Senator Mondale. Yes- a
| ‘
8 and in that August 10 meeting two or three principals

9 || testified that it did come uP- and in fact it is not reflected
5 | dn the notes.

| wir, Bundy. Perhaps the best way for me to begin at least
: | with an anawer to your question is to describe my

| own sense -~ my own understanding of the way in which covert
operations of all types were brought forward, And this was

perhaps the most important and the most constantly reiterated

fact of the process that I was exposed to when I began to
y7 | consider this whole range of subjects on coming to Washington.

1g | And whether it was with Me. Gordon Gray, my predecessor, OF

with Allen Dulles, of with incoming and outgoing friends in

the Department of State, oF with Mr. Bissell, or with anyone

else concerned with these matters, what I learned then and

1
(
i
|

what T applied throughout my time there to the best of my

ability was that all covert operations, whether intelligence

operations, clandestine political activity, and clandestine

24

propaganda activity, and clandestine subversion, or sabotage,

TOP SECRET

25



HW 50955 Docl

a oa

a

| which was so big, so complicated, and overflowed in so many }

4 {until the beginning of this current public discussion, that

I
that the Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agencies, with

which a1a occur in‘the case of Cuba, all of them took their
authority from and came for théir authority to the 54/12

group.

And when there was a question in such a meeting as to
whether the matter required further judgment, it was the

responsibility of the Chairman of that group to. make sure that

that was checked out.

The papers will usually say, higher authority, et cetera,

i

et cetera, and the President's name will often not appear --
any more than the precise character of the operation is likely

to appear in the minutes for the reasons that Senator Baker

has spoken of.

But I never knew of any operation of this kind of any

sort, with one exception, which is quite different, which did

' not have that channel. The exception is the Bay of Pigs, :

directions, and in which the President himself was involved in

so many ways, as he fully recognized and explained at the time,

that it did not go through this Committee process, it went

| through a quite Presidential process, and everybody involved

knew that.

But with that one exception, I would have told you up !

was the way it went, and that nothing went outside it, and

TOP SECRET Gia



ae 10
li

“42

pus

18

19

gireet, $.€., Wasnington, 9.€, 20003
~

G

HW 50955 Doc

their more’ sensitiv
in that respect.

Now, I clearly am zong: But that is what I would have
told you. ease tencee eae :

Senator Mondale. Well, are you wrong?

In other words, what you testified to --

Mr. Bundy. Excuse me, I misstate myself. I beg your
pardon for interrupting.

zt am wrong in that things happened that didn't go through i

i

that group. :

Senator Mondale. Yes.

In other words, that is the big question, either they ¥«
acting on authority, which apparently flowed around channels ~~

he Chairman. Covertly =~

Senator Mondale. Covertly -- or they were acting on thei:
own, and our attempts to find direct authority in these officia!
meetings led us nowhere. .

And your testimony is that you find it very unlikely
that there was this covert way of communicating authority.

Mr. Bundy. My testimony was that I wouldn't
nave believed it existed. I have to consider the same al-
ternative that. the Chairman has so clearly pointed out. 1
don't find it agreeable to conclude that the Agency was a

rogue elephant at a time when I strongly believe it was not.

Senator Mondale. We asked General Taylor that questioo,

TOP SECRET



and he said he found it: incredible to believe that they

2 || would have gone around the Special Group Augmented with such.
5 Mr. Bundy. General Taylor, of course -- and this is an
4 important point -- was a-pointed to this responsibility after {
5 || the Bay of Pigs, after a review of the failures that led to i
6 | the Bay of Pigs, and after a conclusion had been reached that |
7 || it would strengthen the White House to have a man with a parti-

;
8 | cular responsibility for the oversight of intelligence opera- |
9 | tions. He was called military representative to the President, |

(
10 || but in the announcement of his appointment

I happened to
11 || look it up the other day -- President Kennedy made it clear that
| he would be his representative for intelligence matters

|
a 13 | And he did in fact take over the chairmanship during the time |
14 |] that he was military representative of all of the Special

19 | Groups, 54/12, the Special Group Counterinsurgency, and the

a 16 || Special Group Augmented, MONGOOSE. And when he said --

17 | if he has testified that his expectation would have been

iy | that nothing was going to go around him, he is saying exactly

| what I thought through the same period.
Senator Baker, Mr. Chairman, in that respect -~

The Chairman. Before I forget the question, let

me ask, since you were at the August 10 meeting, and since

/
2
2 |
é 2 || we have received testimony buttressed by certain documentary
: i a
Riaart 24 | evidence that the subject of assassination of Castro did

25 | come up at that meeting, do you have any recollection of

i TOP SECRET

HW 50955- DoeT!


1 subject coming up or being discussed?

2 Mr. Bundy. I don't recollect the meeting. And I r
3 | don't recollect the subject ever coming up in a meeting of | i
4 that size, or indeed in any -- I don't have any recollection t
5 || of it coming up, although I do have a general recollection of t

6 || there being times at which this possibility was heard of. I
7 || wouldn't want to testify that-I never heard anyone say,

8 there is somebody thinking about this, because that would be

9 different from my vague recollection.

10 But I have no recollection of that meeting, and there-
11 || fore none of any specific statement made by anyone in it. |

The Chairman, Senator Baker?

i

i
vil Senator Baker. In that connection, before I go to the
question I had in mind, is it fair to say, Mr. Bundy, that
15 |} all, or virtually all, of your testimony this morning, about
16 || MONGOOSE, about the August 10 meeting, and about the general

17 || situation, is from reconstructed memory rather than first

18 || impression memory?

it
39 | Mr. Bundy. I-didn't want to go that far, Senator Baker.
20 | My knowledge, my sense of what 54/12 and Special Group |
“I | Augmented were, and where they stood in the line of authority, |
py || 4a very clear, and is not reconstructed. I spent five i
| years -- except for the time when General Taylor was there, |

I was the chairman of these things.

Senator Baker. Let's take a piece at a time, then. Bs

TOP SECRET is

HW 50955 DocI


HW 50955

5
?

Doct

prone (Ares 202) 544-6000"

420 First Street, S.£., Washington, O-C. 2003

or

a

on the question of the Executive action capability, 1
believe referred. to as the ZRRIFLE project --

oie eaney 2 suuue ogy hae ae [hea krowncenae wae! ies
name I would have looked harder, Senator Baker. :

Senator Baker. It is a fairly picturesque name -- as
to Executive Action Capability, or ZRRIFLE, do you have a
separate recollection?

Mc. Bundy. I have a recollection of what I think of
is one, I don't want to say there wasn't more, but of
one discussion of the matter. And I know T was informed of
it in some fashion at the time.

Senator Baker. Do you remember by whom?

Mc. Bundy. That is my difficulty, as I said earlier,
I don't know.

Senator Baker. The reason I ask is, from the other
documentation I have, which consists primarily of the
Inspector General of the CIA's report, and maybe other

material that I can't think of at the moment, it is clear

and unmistakeable that they think of R2RIFLE or Executive Ac-

; tion Capability as a White House initiative, or a White liouse

‘
| request of considerable insistence from the White House that

t

they get on with the job.

Mr. Bundy. That is totally inconsistent with my un-

reconstructed recollection.

Senator Baker. Let me track that carefully.

TOP SECRET



po you recall that there was. not?’

rea 202) 544-6000

Mr. Bundy. ICan only speak for myself here, and for

my colleague Rostow, and my knowled:

of his ass ignments.

t his assignments would have made it wildly out

1 recall tha

» and totally out of charactelr for him to initiate 4

And I recall that I did not. And I

matter of this kind.

ite independently of any reconstruction of

recall that qu

recent months.

I would like to Limit this, thenr

Senator Baker-

| just to youvas

was it your general assignment to take care of so-

led covert operations?

yt was my assignment ~~ MAY 1 take a minute

Mr. Bundy-

Senator Baker-

yes, sir.

There were two ways in which I could become

Mr. Bundy.

overt -- three ways. might have thought uP

involved in ¢

1 will have to say that T have no recollec-

an idea myself.

tion that T

It was not 2 subject in which I had

personal motivating interest. So,there were

an independent

s in which I could get involved in it. one was by

om the Agency OF the Defense Intelligence

\ a proposal upward: fr

ry
2

in would come to the special Group.

he other was when the president had an interest-~

did have an interest ~~ from time to time in these

TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Docc



Doct

5

jo | Senator Baker, but they would be in a category, subversion

| and sabotage.

15 || 0077
ig! , Mr. Schwarz. Once yesterday.
%
i
15 SEnator Baker. Do you remember when Mr. Harvey was Lf

16 || brought to see the President at the Oval office?
ail Mr. Bundy. I have been told about that, but T

ia | am afraid that is non-refreshed recollection. I don't know

1 | matters. He hada great. interes: rent points in

2 || 1961, 1962, in doing more ‘about Cuba. ‘And part of the more he

3 | wanted to do was covert. ‘And he would say so to me. And

4 || 1 would say so to somebody else.
5 senator Baker. Can you give us examples of that?
6 Mr. Bundy. No, I can't. I xcan only say that the kind

7 | of things he was talking about was, why do all these raids not
8 || get us anywhere? They say they can do something about the oil

9 || refineries, why don't they? These are purely hypothetical,

senator Baker. WAs it Harvey that was spoken of as our

19 4 anything about it.

20 | Senator Baker. Would that have been the character of
yy | the things that the President was interested in, 007?

22 | Mr. Bundy. I am not going to try to repair the record

oe: Fat this late stage and say that the President never read

| Ian Fleming.

| Senator Baker. Or ever seen Ian Fleming? H

| TOP SECRET



NW 50955

7

ear

:

29003

rs

10

121

15

16

17

Fleming.

Senator Baker. I think that is right. But I think it
is important for us, Mr. Bundy, to try to establish, as the
Chairman said, the range of available information or evi-~
dence that sheds .some light on the three alternative possi-
bilities, and the type of things that the President interested
himself in is terribly important in that respect.

I believe that you said you had no information or no
recollection of what particular situation, or what other
deals that were made he was interested in.

Mr. Bundy. I will put it more concretely than that.

The President said, can't we do something more about Cuba?
Why don't you get ahold of these people who are dealing with
this and see if they can't do better, and pass the word
that I am interested, that kind of thing.

Senator Baker. Do I understand that to mean that he never
spoke of a particular practice?

Mr. Bundy. I can't tell you that, because I know, the
record indeed reminds me, that particular actions that are
related to Cuba that came up through the group of ten
went to him, and some were approved and some were not.

So, he clearly looked at them.

I would have to have the documents there in order to

be precise, and I don't have them with me.

TOP SECRET



Senator Baker, Which documents?

Rk Mr. Bundy. Documents which ‘the Committee staff

° has provided.

ww
mone (arn 202) 54-4000

4 Mr. Schwarz. We have them.
5 Senator Baker. Tell me what they-are.
6 Mr. Schwarz. November 30, 1961, Tab ~~ is that Tab H

7 or Tab 4 about the November 30, 1961, which authorizes

8 || MONGOOSE?

: 9 Mr. Kelley. Tab 4.

= 19 Mr. Schwarz. May 5, '62, Lansdale Tab 21.

c. ul Senator Baker. Let's stop there, if I may. i

i i qe |) po you have a copy of this memorandum, Mr. Bundy? i
i 13 Mr. Kelley. He will have it in a moment. |

C lal Mr. Bundy. One place these documents did not go is H

ee 15 | into the memorabilia of former members.

Fa 16 | Mr. Kelley. We are talking about Tab 4.
] 1
17 | Senator Baker. Mine says, see Lansdale Tab 4.
138 Mr. Kelley. Yes. November 30, 1961.
3 19 | Senator Baker. I would really prefer if someone gave
‘ : eo | Me. Bundy a copy of the same material I am working on.
H 2) \ Mr. Kelley. All right, that is the chronology. :
‘ 22 Mr. Bundy. November 30, 1961? H
23 | Senator Baker. Yes, sir. It is on page 3, the third i
24 || item.
2s | Mr. Bundy. I have it.

TOP SECRET



HW 50955

Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000'

ry
3

25

Senator Baker. President Kennedy's, decision to begin
MONGOOSE. Is it clear, ue. Bundy, ‘ehae President Kennedy made
the decision to initiate the MONGOOSE program?

Mr. Bundy. No question.

Senator Baker. I notice in the staff interpretation
under the column "Issues and Questions" that they alleged
that you recall probably writing this memorandum.

Mr. Bundy. That is really a logical inference. The

President would not himself have written a long memorandum of

instructions of this kind. It is possible that General
Taylor wrote it. But I think it is more likely that I did.
But in any event, whichever of us did so was doing it as a
staff officer for the Prsident's convenience in recording
his decision.

Senator Baker. So at least to this extent there is

no question about the chain of command, or the chance to

| control it, the President authorized it?

Mr. Bundy. Just to underline that point, as T recall
the paper which was shown to me, it is one from Mrs. Lincoln
te General Taylor saying, the President wants you to have
this as a description of the decisions.

Senator Baker. Would you repeat that?

Mr. Bundy. I think the covering memorandum on that
Ausdnene is from Mrs. Lincoln to General Taylor, and it says,

the President wants you to have this as a record of his

TOP SECRET



NW 50955

&

io First Street, 5.€., Washington, O.C. 20003

Phone (Aras 202) 544-6000:

10

il

14

15

16

ae

decisions.

Senator Baker. Thank cea: 3

Do you have an independent recollection of the meeting
or the encounter with President Kennedy in connection with
MONGOOSE?

mir. Bundy, Not a spécific meeting, but of the process
which led to this decision, yes.

senator Baker, Deseribe for me, if you will, what
MONGOOSE was intended to be?

Mr. Bundy. Well, MONGOOSE in a general way was the
unole set of things to be concerned with mostly, but not only,
covert activities against the Communist regime in Cuba. ‘

Senator Baker. The chronology also quotes the memo as

saying, one, Wwe will use our available assets to go ahead

| with the discussed project in order to help Cuba overthrow

the Communist regime.

Can you elaborate on that?

Mr. Bundy. Not without documentary assistance beyond
what I have just said. It was to be a fairly wide ranging
program. I believe that what that really sort of implies
to me is that all departments are to cooperate, that the

Committee isto review possibilities, proposals, to seek

|
| them out, and that the thing is to be coordinated by the

Committee, whose chairman will be -- this summary doesn't

say so, but my recollection is that the chairman was to be

TOP SECRET .

Doctt

cereeeenrermecrmmamngen


Prone (Area 202) 544-6900:

WARD & PAUL,

14

15

17

18

19

20

cy
3

NW 50955

16 |

was to be the Chief’ of Operations.

The Chairman: “ft have’ some questions at this point, please.

qtem 4-of this memorandum reads: “The NSC 54/12 Group
wll be kept closely Informed’ of activities, and will be
available for advice. and Feconmendation".

Does this suggest to you that the regular channel was
supposed to operate with respect to MONGOOSE, that 18 to say,

a central xole was to be played by the Special Group in

connection with its activities?
Me. Bundy. It is a puzzling sentence to me as I read
it now. And I can't give you a precise answer on that. I
think the general answer has to be that the 54/12 Group continus.
| through this period. General Taylor was the chairman of

poth. The overlapping of membership was extensive. And

I think you would get a more precise answer as to the exact
relation from General Taylor than I am in a position to give
you.

The Chairman, I have a very clear memory of General
maylor's testimony. And his testimony was that the Special
| Group Augmented was the group that had charge of operation
MONGOOSE. It was further his testimony that all plans, all
operations, were to be brought to the Special Group Aug-
mented for its approval. And the approval of that Group

ssary before any such plans were actually implemented

TOP SECRET

was nece:



Prone (Area 202) 544-6000,

a
©

10

a7

il

12

14

15

16

7500 Os 0%

1?

18

19

20

pa

22

6
3

23

410 First

ea

25

HW 50955

Mr. Bundy... 2'would-certainly.be elear ‘on that, Mr.
Chairman. I thought you ware ‘aeking whether there was 2
further requirement that ait go from the Special Group
Augmented to the special. Group. And I have no precise view
on that.
the Chairman. I see. :
Now, when you refer to the NSC 54/12 Group ~~
Mr. Bundy. That is what I think of as the special Group.
he Chairman. That is what you think of as the special |
Group.
1 asked the question because the language is 4 little
fuzzy. : |
Mr. Bundy. It is.
{The Chairman. This language might suggest that there is i
an. independent line of authority, and that the special Group

Augmented or the Special Group was simply to be kept informed,

and itsadvice and reconmendations would be taken under advise-|
|

ment.

vr. Bundy. I think myself, Mr. Chairman, that
we don't have a very serious problem here, because I would ‘i
agree with General Taylor's recollection that the Special i
Group Augmented was the Cuba group. ;

Now, the Special Group is simply the same people. less i

| two or three. « And the only real operational value of this i

paragraph is that perhaps the staff officer who serviced the ‘

TOP SECRET



NW 50955

oO

WanD & PAUL

Ato Furst Street, S<£.. Wasnington, 0.C. 20003

10

ac

12

14

15

16

17

18

54/12 would be available Ain. a decision to the staff officer

servicing the Special Group Augmented. But the decision-making
persons are isimply a smaller number of the very people

that both General Taylor and I recollect as having the main
responsibility.

The Chairman. So according to your best remembrance,
you would agree with the testimony we have received from
General Taylor?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, I would.

The Chairman. Mr. Smothers?

Mr. Smothers. Mr. Bundy, perhaps we could get some help
in how the recollections come together here. I might pursue
for just a moment some of the background regarding other
sources of information you may have had regarding the subject
matter of his testimony. :

You indicated earlier that you had talked with Mr.
Bissell about his testimony.

pid you talk with persons other than Mr. Bissell?

Mr. Bundy. Oh, yes-

Mr. Smothers. Did you talk with Mr. McNamara?

Mr, Bundy. Yes, indeed.

Mr. Smothers. Regarding these events?

Mr. Bundy. Yes.

Mr. Smothers. Have you spoken with Mr. Gilpatric?

Mr. Bundy. NO, T don't think I have.

TOP SECRET.



Nw 50955 "BU

410 First Street, 5.€., Wasnington, ©.C. 20003

10

il

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

ae

Bundy. Yes:

Mr, Smothers. Mr. McCone?

Mr. Bundy. Yes.

Mr. Smothers. . Are there others?

Mr. Bundy. I am'sure there are. Mr. Rostow. Mr.
Goodwin. ‘There may well be others, Mr. Schlesinger and Mr.
Dungam -- who has very little to do with it, but I talked
to them because of my own absence of recollection about the
Dominican Republic.

Mr. Smothers. Let me just raise a few questions regard-
ing those discussions, and perhaps it will be somewhat helpful
to us in trying to piece this together.

Has any documentary evidence passed between you and
the persons previously mentioned regarding the subject
matter of these hearings?

Mr. Bundy, Not that I know of.

Mr. Smothers. Did Mr. McCone provide you any documentary |

evidence?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Smother. Did you receive any documentary evidence
from any source other than the staff?

Mr. Bundy. No -- I beg your pardon, When I testified

before the Rockefeller Commission I asked through that

Commission whether I could look at NCS files particularly in

TOP SECRET



> ¢
:
&
cna)
4
a 3
i
H
a
‘
5
~™
3
z

?

NW 50955

10

ll

12

18 ||

order to clarify my recollection of the 6th of August 1962.
And I was allowed to look at ‘the NSAM files. And my memory was
refreshed by NSAM-1, which I believe the committee has.

Mr. Smothers. Have you made a similar request to
persons now within the Agency for on the White House stafé?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Smothers; Could we go back into your conversation
with Mr. Bissell? -Could you describe for the Committee, please
your reaction when Mr. Bissell indicated to you that “he had
in’ testimony before this Committee told the Committee that
either you or Mr. Rostow had asked him to establish an Execu~
tive Action Capability?

Mc. Bundy. He didn't report it that way to me. He
reported it to me that the testimony that had been given by
others placed this event in February 1961. Testimony by
others indicated that he had said to them that he had been
encouraged to do this by the White House, and that in casting
around as to who might have encouraged, he had given the
names of Rostow and Bundy. I think this is roughly what
he said to me.

qhe Chairman. That was the character of his testimony?

Mr. Bundy. I told him that I thought he must
be wrong about Rostow, because that wasn't the way it worked,
and that my own recollection was not that we had encouraged

him, but that I had at some stage been informed about it.

TOP SECRET



‘prone (Area 202) 544-6000,

”
©

10

li

12

3
é
‘
°
&
<
3

pean @so43

that he had been informed as opposed to initiating?

|| discussion on it. I don't recall his reaction, and I don't

we agreed that whatever else-it was, it was not an operation

plan, and it was not targeted against anyone.

recall exactly how I put the point.

NW 50955 —

We then went on ‘to’ iasion’of what it was. And

Mr. Smothers. What was his reaction to your comment

Mr. Bundy. I don't recall that we had a very extended j

the Chairman. Let me just ask at that point, the way you i
!

|

|

have characterized Bissell's testimony correspnds with my
memory of it. It is hard for me, however, to understand
how Mr. Bissell -- why Mr. Bissell would have directed Mr.

Harvey to develop such a capability, and apparently represented

i
i
|
‘
if the documents are to be believed, to Mr. Harvey that he had |
been twice instructed to do this by the white House, if he |
|

had not in fact received such authority. |

po you think that Mr. Bissell would have undertaken
on his own initiative to develop such a capability and :
simply represented to his subordinate that he was doing so on
instructions from the white House?

wir. Bundy. I think there is a prior question, Mr-

chairman, which is the credibility of the witness from whom he

jis taking this recollection.
The Chairman. That is fair.

Though Mr. Bissell himself did not seem disposed --

TOP SECRET



y

mone (Ares 202) 544-6000:

wane a PAUL

“410 First Street, S.€., Wasnington, 0.C. 20003

10

ll

12

14

15

16

bd

18

19

WetheSs Bhar ee,
not give him this instruction, but Ido, Mr. Chairman.

phe Chairman. Did Mr, Bissell at any time during the
period under question, or at any later time, ever inform
you of CIA activities or involvement in assassination attempts
against any foreign leader?

Mr. Bundy. No.

The Chairman, Doesn't it strike you as strange, since
Mr. Bissell was aware of such attempts, that he would not |
have told him?

Mr. Bundy. Well, T don't want, for reasons that I
have already explained, to speculate as to why he did or did
not. I was operating, working on the assumption that I
would know that kind ofsathing if it existed. j

The Chairman.Senator Mathias?

Senator Mathias. Mr. Chairman, I don't want to leave |

the record, or Mr. Bundy's mind, or in the alternative, my

mind, in a state of confusion as to what exactly Mr. Bissell's
recollection was. :

Now, he was depending somewhat on Mr. Harvey's recollec- ;
tion and notes in the first instance. But as T recall, he :
was very clear as a matter of independent recollection that
he had been horsed along a couple of times by the white House
on proceeding with the development of the Executive Action

Capability. And that was a matter of independent recollection,

TOP SECRET |

:
a


zane r@rnagy

3
ry
&
‘
z

14

16

16

1

19

20

21

22

| vities against Cuba?

refreshing his recollection:

Mr. Bundy. That he didn't say. to me, and I have no way
of commenting on it.

The Chairman. I think we ‘nust carefully review the
record on that score. :

Senator Baker. It may be neéessary to ask him to come
back for that purpose.

May I ask a question there?

Mr. Bundy, do you have any recollection of any specific
covert plans that would involve poisons, hypdermic syringes,
or other potentially lethal devices in conjunction with acti-

Mr. Bundy. I have no recollection of any specific plan.

I do have a very vague, essentially refreshed recollection
that I heard the word poison at some point in connection with

a possibility of action in Cuba. But that is as far as I

have heen able to take it in my own memory.
Senator Baker. Can you remember who may have men-
tioned it to you and what the purposes of the poison may have
been?
Mr. Bundy. Nothing at all about it in detail. i
Senator Baker. A poison pen?
Mr. Bundy. No, some kind of poison about which -- one

thing that does stick in my mind is that it seems totally i

TOP SECRET


y5onn9 Moras

2
FH
Hy
«
Py
Fy

1, $.£., Wasmagton, 0.6. 20003

A10 First $1

10

il

12

16 |

17

18

19

20

impractical because Yelwas going to"kil1.a large qeocs of
peoplé in a headquarters mess, or something of that sort.

Senator Baker. Do you remember whether the plan was
declared non-feasible or infeasible by the Department of
Defense?

Mr. Bundy. No, I have no such recollection.

Senator Baker. Do you remember anything about a hypodermic
syringe to carry poisons in a ballpoint pen?

Mr. Bundy. That is the sort of thing that I was asked
the other day, and I said I remember it, and then it seems to
me about ten seconds later was that what I was remembering was
murder mysteries and nothing related to Cuba, I have no
recollection of connecting anything like that to Cuba.

Senator Baker. I have another question, but I will
wait, if you have something else.

The Chairman. Go ahead, sir.

Senator Baker. Do you feel that you have a good insight
into the relationship between the President and his brother

Robert Kennedy in this respect, that is, having to do with

Cuba operations, and Robert Kennedy and Richard lelms?
Mr, Bundy. I have a pretty good picture of the relation-
ship between President Kennedy and Robert Kennedy on Cuba,

and on many other things. It is a recollection which grows

stronger as the administration goes on, because I got to

know them better, and, of course, they got to know me better,

TOP SECRET



&
hone arse 202) 54-6000

1 || ana the relationship tends’

4 I do not -have any clear picture

5 between the Attorney General and Mr. Helms. My “curbstone
6 || judgment would have been that it was not close.
7 i “Senator Baker. Based on your insight, did the Presi-~

g || dent delegate to Robert Kennedy substantial aspects of cuba

a 9 | policy during the period we are speak

oo 10 Mr. Bundy. I wouldn't put it that way, Senator

34 || in my area of interest.

5 Senator Baker. Counterinsurgency

NW 509.

2 | both of them. I had known the President for many, many

3 | years, and the Attorney General much: more priefly.

y) | Baker. He certainly counted on the Attorney General to be
yp ||a kind of gingerman on a great many subjects, of which Cuba

33 || ana counterinsurgency were the two that came more closely with- |

TOP SECRET

of the relationship

ing of? \

meaning what?

15
16 Mr. Bundy. Counterinsurgency meaning all those efforts
7 | \dke the Green Berets and organizing to be able to assist
ye | countries threatened by Communist subversion internally.
3 19 ; Senator Baker. Are you speaking of counterinsurgency
8 go ae it ted to Cuba, or as & general capability?
: 21 | Mr. Bundy. There was a separate committee, the Special
‘ pa Committee on CI, counterinsurgency. And the Attorney General
i 3 was an active member of that. And I used to see him playing \
e i pg [this very important role of poking and prodding, and why can't
. 25 you do more, and why can't you do ieeee and why aren't we


‘a0 First Steet, S.E., Washington, O.C. 20003

request for documentation.

the John F. Kennedy Library. It is essentially in fact the

making more progress.
‘ Senator Baker. Who was on that committee?

Mr. Bundy. I'am sorry, I can't decide from recollection.
General Taylor was again the Chairman, but the membership was
different.

Senator Baker. Do you have minutes or records of that
group?

Mr. Schwarz. No.

i
Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, I would like to request |

that with Mr. Bundy's assistance after this hearing that we iden-

tify as much as we can what that group is, and make a fomral —

Mr. Aaron. We have reviewed some of that material at

group that reviewed paramilitary operations and potential
insurgency situations.in a number of countries. There was an
insurgency list. It did not seem to relate to the subject
we are speaking of here. So we did not request the documents.
But we could have gotten them.

Senator Baker. Will you do that, please?

Is that agreeable, Mr. Chairman?

qhe Chairman. What is your request?

Senator Baker. I would like documentation or any records
relating to the counterinsurgency group during the period in

question.

TOP SECRET



ber of the committee staff to undertake that review, and

report back to the committee.

Would that be satisfactory?

Senator Baker. That is fine. I just want to know if
there is any worthwhile documentation.

@he Chairman. Yes. Because it may be entirely ancillary
to this issue.

Senator Baker. Let me ask Mr. Bundy this. Would that
group have been important toward American policy during this
period?

Mr. Bundy. The CI Group?

Senator Baker. Yes.

Mr. Bundy. I would think only most marginally,
Senator Baker, simply because the existence of other groups,

the Special Group Augmented or the MONGOOSE Group, was 50

clearly dominant and was the Central Committee for that sub-
ject.

Senator Baker. The gingerbread man concept?

Mr. Bundy. The gingerman concept

Senator Baker. The gingerman concept. There is a
difference.

po I directly infer from that description that the

10 Fiest Steeet. S.E., Wasnington, D.C. 20003

| President would authorize Robert Kennedy to urge and expedite

action to move from assignment to assignment and to push people

TOP SECRET



along "to produce’a result? ©
"Mr. Bundy. In a general way that is right. But the
form it took in the areas in which I was concerned was in one
sense quite informal. .I know of no instance :where the Attorney
General tried to replace the normal channel let's stay away |
for the moment from/the covert question and the Cuban ques~
tion, which I know you will want to talk about more precisely --
but if he felt, as he often did, that American policy in

Africa, for example, was insufficiently sensitive to the aspir-

{
ations of black people in Africa, he wouldn't fire off a kick, nb

would come in and say, why can't you people do something about
|
the State Department on news and stuff. i

Senator Baker. There is some evidence -- we had direct

testimony that Mr. Helms, who was DDP at the time in ques-
tion, rather than DCI, clearly thought that the authority of
the Agency was to overthrow the Castro regime by any means, in-
cluding assassination. :

And when pressed on the source of that authority he de-
signed to say that anyone specifically told him that, but
} | that he talked to Robert Kennedy frequently about it. Would
| this be in the gingerman concept you are speaking of?

Mr. Bundy. Now we are right at the specific point I

1, $€., Washington, ©.€. 20003

would like to make. But everything I knew about Bobby Kennedy
when he was goading and spurring people on is that he never

took away from the existing channel of authority its authority

TOP SECRET



i seo paapoaatnit ey oe :
a 2 Senator Baker. Would what I describe be consistent
3 5 | with whatyou describe? : :
4 Mr. Bundy. Not if it is interpreted as meaning that he
8 || was providing a separate channél of authority.
: 6 | Senator Baker. What I" ant ‘waa just what it was, and |
7 | that is, Nelms described for us meeting with Kennedy apparently
8 | to stimulate the Agency's activities to. produce the overthrow
a 9 | of the Castro regime, and that he met regularly with Kennedy
7” 10 || in this respect. /
a aL Mr. Bundy. I don't know how often they met or what was '
= i 12} said, I know nothing about that. I would have said, just in
: 15 | passing, that the Attorney General's relationship to the Direc-
oe 14 | tor of Central Intelligence was much closer and more impor~
15] tant than his relationship to Mr. Helms. |
fm 16 Senator Baker. I am correct, am I, that Helms at the i
17 time was DDP and not DCI? |
18 | Mr. Schwarz. That-is right. |
i 19 | Senator Baker. Do you have any idea why he would have i
3 20 | met regularly with the DDP rather than the DCI? 4
4 21 Mr. Bundy. 1 have no idea that he did. I know that he |
é op | met often and intimately and easily with the Director of \
i 23 | Central Intelligence, who was a close personal friend of his. |
i 24 } Senator Baker. You are speaking of Mr. McCone? i
3 |
26 | Mr. Bundy. Mr. McCone. |
|

TOP SECRET -


WARD @ PAUL

21, 5.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

410 Fiest i

The Chairmans’ think that ‘@ince the point ie impor-

tant, that when the Committee Staff complete its review of the

evidence it ought ‘to be reminded to look closely at that Helms
testimony and identify exactly what words Helms might have
used to describe his relationship with Robert Kennedy.

Senator Baker. And the time involved and what position
Helms occupied at the time.

The Chairman. I have another question.

Mr. Bundy, we also have it from Mr. Bissell that at one
time he called in an officer, a subordinate, O'Donnell, =~
that at one time Mr. Bissell called in a subordinate whose
name was Mr. O'Donnell, and asked Mr. O'Donnell if he would
be willing to undertake the assassination of Mr. Lumumba.

Mr. O'Connell testifies that he said he would not be

willing to undertake the assassination of Mr. Lumumba, because

| he had moral compunctions against killing.

Mr.. O'Donnell further testifies that he was then or
thereafter dispatched to the Congo, where he was informed that
some poison had been made available -- had come to the CIA
headquarters in the Congo.

Mr. Bundy. I am sorry, I missed that last.

The Chairman. He was informed that some poison had
arrived at the CIA headquarters in the Congo,

When we asked Mr. Bissell on what authority he had asked

O'Connell as to his willingness to undertake the assassination

TOP SECRET



“410 First Street. $.£., Wasnungton. D.C. 20003

of Lumumba, he could not provideua' with’ that authority,

except to say that he may have one it’on-his own initiative.

Do you have any reaction to that?

Mr. Bundy. Where is it in time?

senator Church. It was in the fall of 1960, Tt was
not during the Kennedy Administration, it preceded the Kennedy
aaminietration. Bat I asked you the question, because it
strikes me as being a very disturbing piece of testimony, that
any.man so positioned, in the CIA could not identify higher
authority for such an action, and would under oath say that it
might have been on his own initiative.

Mr. Bundy. I can't add to your comment on that, Mr.
Chaixman.

whe Chairman. Very well.

Senator Morgan. Let me ask him a question or two, Mr.
Inaicman.

qhe Chairman. Senator Morgan?

Senator Morgan. Mr. Bundy, you recall very vividly
talking with the President on many occasions about Cuba,
is that right?

Mr. Bundy. I recall vividly that I talked to him on many
occasions, I am not very good on remembering specific dis-
cussions.

senator Morgan. You told us a few minutes ago that he was |

constantly prodding, and why don't you do this, and why doesn't |

TOP SECRET



Prone (Aras 202) 544-6000"

410 Fiest Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

| many times in the context of the events that led up to and

maybe even hundreds of times, in the context of the events that

go and so work?

Mr. Bundy. If I may ‘correct that, I said he prodded me

from time to time, not all the time.

Senator Morgan. Quite frequently?

Mr. Bundy, I wouldn't put it that often, It might have
been three or four times.

Senator Moteur Mr. Bundy, you were head of the Security
Council, you were his assistant?

Mr. Bundy. I am trying to give an accurate picture of
the number of times, Senator. |

Senator Morgan. You are trying to give such an accurate
picture that you are not giving much of a picture at all.

Are you telling this committee that throughout the time
you assumed your duties, throughout the Cuban crisis, and all
the MONGOOSE operations, that you might have talked to him two
or three times about it?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Could I separate and try and clarify my answer?

Senator Morgan. Yes.

Mr. Bundy. I talked to the President, I suppose, many,
followed the Bay of Pigs. I talked to him dozens of times,

led up to and followed the Cuban missile crisis. Those are the |

two great moments of Presidential concern over Cuba during the

TOP SECRET



phone (Ares 202) 544-6000,

WARD & PAUL

6c€., Washington, 8.€. 20003

19

il

12

time Iwas in Washington.
give you a number-- on these intervening matters: And that is

the distinction I am trying to make.

Senator Morgan. You were something between himself and

the National Security Council, were you not?

Mr. Bundy. That ien't exactly the way it works.

Senator Morgan. Just tell me what did you do.

Mr. Bundy. I am trying to.

senator Morgan. I have been listening al} morning, Mr.

bundy, and I just don't get it.

Tet me go to one other question. Was it true a while

ago when you said that Robert Kennedy was constantly prodding

people? Why can't we do more?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, that is certainly true.

17

18

19

20

Senator Morgan. I have no other questions.

Senator Mondale. Could -I).ask one, Mr. Chairman?

qhe Chairman. Senator Mondale.

senator Mondale. TI don't like to ask this question,

put I think it is important.

i Have you talked to others involved during this period

when you may have peen testifying before us and before the

in the last five months about

Rockefeller Commission, SaYr

|| this testimony?

i Mr. Bundy. T answered that question. Yes, I have.

senator Mondale. Would, you repeat it briefly for us?

TOP SECRET



5

16
17
18
19

20

4410 Fiest Street, 5.€.. Washington, O.C. 20003

HW 5095

your conversations with Mr. McNamara?

Mr.

Senator Mondale.

Senator Mondale. Go ahead.

Mr, Smothers. 1 believe you indicated previously, Mr.
Bundy, that you talked to.Mr. Bissell, Mr, McNamara, Mr. McCone,
Me. Rostow, Mr. Goodwin, Mrs Schiéinger, and others that may
not be on that list. And you indicated that you had spoken to

Mr. Bissell after his testimony regarding executive action.

(Me. Bundy. That is right.

Mr. Smothers. Had you spoken with him also before that
testimony?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Smothers. Did he call you or did you call him?

Mr. Bundy. I don't honestly recall. I think I said the
other day that he had called me, but I think actually what |
happened that he called me, and my first words were, I needed

to call you.

Mr. Smothers. Can we go to your conversations with Mr.
McNamara. When did you first talk with him about these matters.
being testified to? i

Mc. Bundy. I think pretty much as soon as it hit the papers.

Mr. Smothers. Can you give the Committee the sense of

Mr. Bundy. There have been a number of them. Mr. H
i

McNamara and I not only have been close friends, but are very

TOP SECRET


8
5
if

development, and about the’ business of the Ford Foundation.
So, I have talked to him a-number of times both on the
telephone and face to face. The essence of the conversation
is the exploration of questions raised or doubts raised babout
the conviction we both share, which is that no one in the Kenned
Administration, in the White House, or in the Capitol, ever
gave any authorization, approval, or instruction of any kind

for any effort to assassinate anyone by the CIA.

TOP SECRET



wana @ PAUL

“aio First Street, §.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

Mr. Smothers

with you specifically, the fact that he had received from

Mr. McCone a memorandum from Mr. McCone.in 1967?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, he told me that.

Mr. Smothers. Did you Aiscuss the substance of that
memorandum?

+Mr. Bundy. I discussed it:initially with Mr. McCone.

Mr. Smothers. Did you aiscuss it with Mr. McNamara?

Mr. Bundy. He mentioned it to me, I don't recall much
about it.

Mr. Smothers. Did you discuss the meeting of August 10
in Secretary Rusk's office?

Mr. Bundy. That was the first discussed because the
newspapers said that there had been a meeting of three, four
or five of us, and the question was whether there had been
such a meeting limited to three, four,or five. And we were able

to satisfy ourselves that that was wrong.

Mr. Smothers. That was wrong. What do you recall to
have been Mr. McNamara's reaction of the August 10 meeting?

Mr. Bundy. He didn't seem to have any that T can recall, {
at least I don't recall that he told me of any reaction of
it.

Mr. Smothers. Do you recall the substance of his
comment Yegarding the 1967 MeCone report?

Mr. Bundy. No. I don't think he commented on it. He

TOP SECRET



10
© 1
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

410 Fiest Street, S.€., Washington, D.C, 20003

i
20

Mr. Smothers: With ‘regard ‘to’ your conversation with
Mr. McCone, when aia this occur, approximately?

Mr. Bundy. That occurred earlier-on.

Mr. Smothers. Before the Rockefeller Commission inquiry?

when it was. But it

Mr. Bundy. I don't know exact:

was vithin the context of the Rockefeller Conmiasion
inquiry and not this inquiry.

Mr. Smothers. Are you talking about more than one
conversation?

Mr. Bundy. No, I think I talked to him on the phone
and then I had a meeting with him.

Mr. Smothers. In either the phone conversation or the
meeting did you discuss Mr. McCone's 1967 report?

Mr. Bundy. He told me that he had heard of it. I don't
think he had then seen it.

Mr. Smothers. You don't think he had then seen it?

Mr. Bundy. He had then seen it as of 1975. He obviously |

saw it in 1967.

Mr. Smothers. Can you give us a feeling for the approx-
imate time when this conversation occurred?

Mr. Bundy. I could ‘probably work it out from my own
calendar, but I don't have it in my head. :

Mr. Smothers. But at this time he had not seen the

report?

TOP SECRET



WARD & PAUL

st, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

a as

since itvis a-report that =-'as T-understand dt, it is a

report that he made in 1967, and he had seen it then.

Mr. Smothers. Did he indicate to you that he was
makingan effort to get that report?

Mr. Bundy. I think he told me that he had been in touch
with the Agency and would be seeing the report, but I don't
really recall.

Mr. Smothers. To go into your conversation with Mr.
Rostow, would you indicate to the Committee, please, the
substance of that conversation?

Mr. Bundy.” Yes. I called him after my conversation
with Mr. Bissell, because it seemed to me that he ought to
be informed, and the two of them ought to talke with each
other about that testimony.

Mr. Smothers. At the time you called him it was your
impression that Mr. Bissell had not talked with Mr. Rostow?

Mr. Bundy. But was planning to.

Mr. Smothers. And this was after Mr. Bissell's testi-
mony?

Mr. Bundy. That if right.

Mr. Smothers. Did you and Mr. Rostow discuss the fact
that both you and Mr. Rostow had been named as potential
sources for the Exective Action authorization?

Mr. Bundy. My emphasis in talking about Mr. Rostow was

TOP. SECRET



the fact that ‘he had been’ mentioned, ‘because it seemed to me

that in my recollection that must be wrong, and he would be

Prone (Aras 202)

interested in getting it’ straightened out.

Mr. Smothers. Can we yo to your conversation with Mr.
Goodwin. Did you.call him or did he call you?

Mr. Bundy. I called him.

Mr. Smothers. And the nature of that conversation?

Mr. Bundy. That conversation was about the Dominican
Republic, because of my complete failure of recollection as
to who or what the White House line of action,responsibility
and concern was with respect to the Dominican Republic in
1961. And I called him, and I called Dungan, and I called

Schlesinger, because they were the the who had been very

much involved in things like the Alliance for Progress, and
new appointments to embassies in Latin America, and Latin
American Policy generally, except for the Bay of Pigs. And

I wanted to see if they had recollections about events in
that spring that were more extensive than mine. I didn't lear
very much, but that was the purpose of the call.

Mr. Smothers. And it it your testimony that your first
exposure to the documentary evidence beyond these recollections
was when either the Rockefeller Commission staff or this i
staf££ showed you documents pertaining to this inquiry.

Mr. Bundy. I want to be precise about the Rockefeller

410 First Street, S.£., Washington, .C. 20003

Commission staff. They did not show me the documents, the

TOP SECRET



Mr. Smothers

documents?
Mr. Bundy. Yes. |
Mr. Smothers. Under what circumstance did the White House
Staff provide these documents ‘to you? Was it at your request,|
or their request?

Bundy. My request.

Smothers. When did it occur?

Bundy. At the time of the Rockefeller hearings.
Smothers. At the time of the Rockefeller hearings?

Bundy. Yes.

Smothers. And prior to your testimony?

Bundy. Yes.

Smothers. Who provided these documents to you?

Mr. Bundy. I never have testified on -- this is not a

serious matter, because there is no secret about it. But I
have always taken the position that White House decisions
are for the White House to discuss, and I perfer to hold to
that position now.

Mr. Smothers. Are you saying that you do not feel at

1. S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

liberty --
Mr. Bundy. No, I am not saying, I am saying that I would
request the committee to address that, question with the White

House.

TOP SECRET



WARD 8 PAUL

410 First Street. 5.€., Wasnington, 0.¢. 20003

Mr. Smothers. The ‘question is who in the White House

provided Mr. Bundy with documents relevant to this investigatidn
And I believe his position is that he would prefer not to
disclose that matter, or that that is a matter for the
Committee's determination.

Mr. Bundy. Let me explain, Mr. Chairman, because you
were out of the room, that I have always taken the position:
that decisions of the White House are for the White House
to discuss. I always asked permission to see documentation
and permission was given. I looked at the document, but I
would rather not discuss it, because I think it is for the
White House to discuss it.

The Chairman. What is the document?

Mr. Bundy. I just described it, it is National Security
Action Memorandum No.1, weshowed us the National Security
Action file, which I believe your staff has.

Mr, Schwarz. We have it here.

Mr. Smothers. My question was, who had the request been
made to, and showed him the document?

Mr. Bundy. My point is that I have tried historically
not to discuss this kind of question when it is something
that concerns the White House, but to leave it to the White
House to discuss it, and I would prefer to hold to that

position.

TOP SECRET



Prone (Ares 202) $44-6000

“aio First Street, S.€., Warmington, D.C. 20003

(off! the record.)'

Mr. Smothers. . This quite frankly, Mr. Bundy, this
related to an ancillary matter that is of concern to the
Committee.

You mentioned conversations with Mr. Schlesinger. Again,

i
were those initiated by you? t

Me. Bundy. The most recent one, he called me. And T

think there were earlier ones, but I don't know. T can't be
precise. I must say I don't know that I understand the line
of questioning. These are very important matters, and
people closely involved in them should be trying to get a
clear sense of what each other renenbers after this many
years, it seems to me this would be entirely natural.

Mr. Smothers. I don't question the fact that it is
natural, Mc. Bundy. I think one of the difficult things
for this Committee to do is to separate out, if you will,
the independent recollections from the documentary evidence
we have shown you, and from conversations with others -~

Mr. Bundy. You are quite right. And T have tried
quite carefully to teil. you my recollection.

Mr. Smothers. We are merely trying now to establish
those relationships so that when we get the point in the
record there is some question regarding the nature of the
recollection that might be of some assistance tous. That

jis not an attack on your veracity, it is not an attempt to

TOP SECRET



Prone (Ares 202) 544-6000:

410 Fuest Street, S.€.. Wasnengton, D.C. 20003

‘see if there has

but merely to ive ius’ some "guidelines in’ looking at the
record. 2 ;

po you recall, Mr. Bundy, from these conversations that
we have just mentioned, any matters which have been raised
by the participants that may be inconsistent with the
documentary record as you have seen it? We know, of course,
that Mr. McNamara's recollection appears to be inconsistent
with the documentary evidence regarding the August 10
meeting.

Mr. Bundy. Well, so was mine. And I have no such
recollection.

Me. Smothers. I am speaking. now of the recollection of
others, if you will.

Mr. Bundy. I can't really recite on that, because I
haven't made the kind of comparison document by document
and conversation by conversation that would allow me to make
a clearcut and comprehensive Choe | But I don't have any
recollection of sharp divergency of that sort.

The Chairman. Mr. Schwarz.

Mr. Schwarz. Mr. Bundy, I want to pick up on one
thing that you testified to that was left hanging and then
come back through your involvement with Cuba and starting
from the beginning. You testified that to your knowledge

no authorization for an assassination was given. I want to

TOP SECRET



4
2
i
2
°
é
H
5

410 First street, 5.€., Washington, O.C. 20003,

told at any time by‘ anybody * that assassination’ effotts were
actually under way with respect to Mr. Castro?

Mr. Bundy. Absolutely not.

Mr. Schwarz. Were you.ever told. by anybody that the
‘central Intelligence Agency had hired the Mafia to assassinate |
Castro?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Schwarz. Were you ever told by anybody that during
the MONGOOSE program Mr. Harvey was engaged in assassination
efforts upon Fidel Castro?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Schwarz. Were you ever told by anybody that in the
fall of 1963 the Central Intelligence Agency was passing
assassination devices to a Cuban military officer?

Mr. Bundy.’ No.

Mr. Schwarz. Were you ever told by anybody that fn:the

fall of 1963 the Central Intelligence Agency was engaged in
an assassination effort with respect to Fidel Castro?

Mc. Bundy. No.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, after the Bay of Pigs, was there a
reevaluation or reconsideration of what the policy toward cuba |
should be? And would you turn in that connection to Tab By
of the Bundy Book 1 of 2 --

Senator Tower. May I raise a purely technical point. I

TOP SECRET



3
Hy
«
Py
&
<
3

“street, 5.€., Wasnington, ©.¢. 20003

410 Fu

think ‘we use ‘the term, the
Mafia was' hired to assassinate Castro, I think that was
inaccurate, pecause I don't think we have anything that
indicates that we contacted the syndicate as such, and I think
if we use, “individuals Likely ‘adsociated with the Mafia,"
or something like that -- AU is a Little technical.

Mr. Schwarz. Let me restate the question to make sure
that there is nota problem with the scope of my question.
And Senator Tower is correct.

Were you ever told that the Agency had contacted a man
called John Roselli?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Schwarz. A man called Sam Giancana?
Bundy. No. *

Schwarz. Aman called Santos Traficante?
Bundy. No.

Me. Schwarz. Any person who was a criminal or allegedly
a criminal for the purpose of assassinating Mr. Castro?

Mr. Bundy. No.

we. Schwarz, Do you have any recollection whatsoever
related to the subject we have been exploring in that group
of questions?

mr. Bundy. No -- you are familiar with the fact that --

refreshed my recollection of activities associated with the

Mafia in a law enforcement context in Florida in 1964-

TOP SECRET



2
8
&
5

sano rinst street, 5, Washington, O:C: 20003

Mr. Schwarz.
down right now. What hap
Mavia and Cuba, to the pest or your recollection? And then
we will just mark some documents.

Mr. Bundy. Let me be clear that my recollection here is
entirely refreshed. Perhaps you would rather come back to
it?

Mr. Schwarz. Let's put it in the record here, since we
nave raised the subject

Let's mark as Bundy Exhibit 1 the lelms memo to DCA
on the Cuban exile plan dated June 10, 1964.

(Document: referred to is marked as

Bundy Exhibit No. 1 for jaentificatid .

TOP SECRET



meeting of the 303 committee dated gune 22,
(pocument referred to 8 marked. 85

Bundy Exhibit No. 2A for identification)

2
3
Fy
8
&
<
5

saxo est Street, SE: Wasmngton: OE 20003



Phone (Area 202)

jasmington, ©.C- 20003

aro Fit

303 Committee of 18 Jun 19

(Document referred to is marked as
Bundy Exhibit No. 2B for

a taentification.).

TOP SECRET



2
3
£
«
ry
«
Fy

‘aro First Steeet, 5.€., Washington, 0.C; 20003

303 Committee of July -31y

(Doctiment referred to is marked as
pundy Exhibit No, 2C for

identification:)



4
3
Ea
s
@
H
Fy

saxo est Street, SE. Wasninston, 0.C- 20003

Ae

for th “wedeorge> Bundy. Special Nesistant to
the President, “status of FBI. Tavestigation re Plans by cuban
Exiles to Assassinate cuban, Government Leaders," dated
August 19, 1964.
~ tbocume ‘referred to is marked as
‘pundy pxhibit No. 2D for

faentification.)

TOP SECRET



‘aro Finst Street, 5.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

opportunity prior to the testimony, and ‘how again if you seek

to do so, to refresh your ‘recollection; will you recount for
the Committee what happened in the summer of 1964 in connect~
fon with this matter?

Mr. Bundy- Well, it is a relatively small matter in the
context of what you are discussing, but what happened in the
summer, of 1964 was that it came to our attention that there
were relations between Cuban refugees in Cuba and people
apparently associated with the Mafia. And this did not seem
to be a good idea. And this was in a period in which
sentiment had been steadily growing for some time against
activities by Cuban refugees that were wholly outside the
control and not really in the interest of the U.S.» and that
they should be associated\with a criminal group.

and so when the matter came to the Special Group, the
decision was made to refer it to the Department of Justice
as a matter of internal American law enforcement. That was
done.

And the Department. said that it was going after the
matter, which it then aid, and reported back.

the reports don't give any conclusive picture of what
really was going on, put they do show that the Bureau went
to a number of people asking around about these matters, and

as far as I know, it then faded away.

TOP SECRET



3
2
‘
9
g
H
5

ceet, S£., Washington, O.C, 20003

ano Fist

vc. Schwarz. ‘In the context of that ‘discussion did
anybody from the Central intelligence Agency or anybody
else inform you that in earlier years there had been
a relationship with -- to use Senator Tower's caution -~
with persons alledgedly involved with the criminal syndicate ~7
in order to accomplish the assassination of Fidel Castor?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, going back to the post-Bay of Pigs
period, would you put pefore the witness and mark as Exhibit
2 the National Security minutes of a meeting held May 5, 1961.
It is at Tab B of the Senator's Book lof 2. This reflects,
am I correct, Mr. Bundy, a discussion of cuba, held with the
President and high officials of the government who are all
listed on the front page?

Mr. Bundy. Correct-

Mr. Schwarz. And Cuba was discussed, and it was

agreed, following the discussion that u.S. policy toward Cuba

should aim at the downfall of Castro, and that since the
measures agreed pelow are not likely to achieve this end,
the matter should be reviewed at intervals with a view to
further action?

Mr. Bundy. Right.

Mc. Schwarz. Now, can you describe the measures agreed
to at that point?

ur. Bundy. My only way of doing that with any accuracy

TOP SECRET



2
3
Hy
4
Py
&
‘
Fy

ano Firs street, E>. Wasminsten: OFC: 20003

ig to in effect iS quote fro!
Mr. Schwarz+ ;

Mr. Schwarz. ‘The document speaks for itself, then. And
you can add nothing to it?

Mr. Bundy. No-

Mr. Schwarz. But can you say that the measures ‘aid or
aid not include assassination?

Mr. Bundy. There is nothing in my recollection and
nothing in the document that seems to me to imply assassin-
ation.

mr. Schwarz. Nows following this instruction, was
cuban policy reviewed again in the fall of 1961?

mr. Bundy. Yes-

Mr. Schwarz. And ultimately out of the fall review

in 1961 came the so-called MONGOOSE program; is that correct?
Mr. Bundy- qhat is right.
mr. Schwarz. Now, prior to discussing upon the MONGOOSE \
program, did you consider 4 lot of other options?
me. Bundy, 1 think we were -- and this is 4 hard
question, but T think what we were doing was working toward
an organization that would be able to take charde of the
complicated, varied inter-departmental ,inds of things involved |
in Cuba- We have beer concentrating this morning on covert :

actionsr put there were also propaganda problems, economic

problems, and Cuban refugee problems in Miami, and a number

TOP SECRET



Wane 8 PAUL

‘5.£., Washington, 0.C. 20003

jurisdiction. :
anytime you get that kind of problem ‘you! have an organization
problem. And the solution of 1961, which took sometime to
work out, as the passage of time suggests, was the creation
of a Special Committee under the Chairmanship of General
Taylor and with General Lansdale as ita operating officer.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, in the’ course of the review that did
take place prior to the establishment of that Special Committe
which then got called the MONGOOSE program, was one of the :
matters which was considered the assassination of Mr. Castro?

Mr. Bundy. As I have already said, 1 can not tell you
that this question never came up. But T recall no sustained |
discussion of that matter in that period-

Mr. Schwarz. Whether you recall a sustained discussion
or not --

hr. Bundy. I don't recall a discussion that T can pin-

point anywhere, but over the period of 1961 to 1963 the

subject was mentioned from time to time by different individ- |
uals, never to me that I can recall by the President. But |
it did come up. i
me. Schwarz. And it may have come up in this period in
the fall of 1961 as something to consider, is that correct?

Mr. Bundy. As something to talk about rather than to

consider, would be my answer.

\

\

|

i

1

i

|

Mr. Schwarz. Would you put before the witness as Bundy |

TOP SECRET



exnibit 3 the Nation x'security action Hemorandun No. 100+
anced october 5+ 196hr TAP q of’ the Senator's Bundy Book 1-
And as Bundy exhibit 3a the minutes of the special Group
meeting dated october 6; 1961, "which 18 at Lansdale Tab 2-
(Document referred to 18 marked a8
punéy Exhibit No. 2 foF jaentification +
(Document referred to is marked 43
pundy Exhibit No. 3 for jaentificati In.)

(Document referred to i8 marked aS

Bundy Exhibit No- 3A for jaentification:

2
3
Fy
s
ry
&
<
Fy



And finally, as Bundy:.Exhibit 3B a memorandum which we

prone (ares 202) 544-6000

nave retyped fron an indistinctcoriginal dated october 5,
1961 Yor the Record, sub ects?
and the indistinct original 48 attached,

(Document réferred to is marked as

Bundy Exhibit Ru. 3B for identificaty

| ai Fist Sites, 5... Wasninaton, D.C, 20003

TOP SECRET



se

Prone (Ares 202) 544-8000)

410 Fist Street, S-E., Wasmington. D.C. 20003

you the question =~. in NSAM'No. 100 you sent to the Secretary

of State the following note: "In conformation of oral
instructions conveyed to Assistant Secretary of State
Woodward, a plan is desired to the indicated contingency in
Cuba". Do you have an independent recollection of what that
indicated contingency was?

Mr. Bundy. Before seeing this document?

Mr. Schwarz, Before seeing the documents,

Mr. Bundy. No.

Mr. Schwarz. Having looked at not only Exhibit 3, but
Exhibit 3A and 3B, do you agree that the contingency referred
to in 3A and the contingency referred to in 3B are related
to NSAM No. 100?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, I do.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, the contingency referred to in 3B,
which is the earlier of the two following documents, is
said by Mr. Parrott to-be a plan against the contingency that
Castro would in some way or other be removed from the Cuban
scent. And I am going to come to some of the other parts
of that document with respect to the President's interest or
not.

And the contingency in 3A, which is the minutes of the
Special Group, as characterized as follows: "Mr. Parrott also

told the Group that two other exercises are in progress in

TOP SECRET



open

prone (Ares 202) 544-6000

Yon of a ‘contingency plan
in connection with ‘the possible cenoval of Castro from the
Cuban scene, and an updating of the overall plan for
covert operations".

Now, after having reviewed those documents, and‘in the
light: of your testimony that it ig possible that the
consideration of the possibility of assassination which you

say did occur at some point; occurred in the fall of 1961,

do you agree that at that time the contingency under consider~

ation here was the possibility of the assassination of Castro?

5

Mr. Bundy. Nor I would put it another way- The contin-
gency here is, what would we do Af Castro were no longer
there. So that the question of how Castro ceased to be
there is left out of this set of papers. Clearly one of
the possibilities would be assassination, but only one of

them. What we are talking about here, as I read the docu~

Cc.
ae
.
@:
a i
c
c
c
tS

ments, is a plan against the contingency that T am not reading |

from the Parrott memorandum, against the contingency that
castro would in some way or other be removed from the Cuban
scene. NSAM 100, whose language is indirect, nonetheless
indicates, to me at least, rereading it, that the President

wanted to know what was likely to happen if Castro were no ‘

longer there. lle was, in other words, trying to get a picture |

at Street, S.€.,Wasnington, O.€. 70003

of whether that would really change things, and if so, in

410

what way.

TOP SECRET



2
3
i
4
°
:
<
3

1410 First Street, S.€., Wasnmgton, O.C. 20002

ur. Schwarz.” Juat’ one’ de “that Mr. Smothers suggested
to me. Is NSAM 100 what the White House showed you, or is
it another document?

Mr. Bundy. No, 181. But let.me be precise. I asked
to see the documents relating to -- from the National Security

files relating to August 1962.'. And they gave me the NSAM

, file identified as the significant memorandum, NSAM 181.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, the contingency to be examined,
therefore, was what would: happen -- would it help the U.S...
that is the question, if Castro were to disappear?

Mr. Bundy. What would it be like if Castro were to
disappear? The question is open ended.

Mr. Schwarz. What was the conclusion?

Mr. Bundy. I don't remember. My unaided sense of the
matter. is that intelligent political analysis would have
suggested in 1961 or at any time later that the removal of a
single individual in a revolution: complex and general as this,
would have quite unpredictable and not necessarily helpful
effects.

Mr. Schwarz. You said that while you were clear the
assassination was not in fact authorized, you believe that
at some point it was examined, is that a fair characterization {

Mr. Bundy. That isn't the word I used. Talk about.

Mr. Schwarz. Talk about. And this exercise constitutes

an analysis of what Cuba/the U.S. would be like if Castro were

TOP SECRET



3
:
«
Py
&
<
Fy

410 First Steeet, $.€., Wamnington, 0.¢. 20003,

Phone (Ares 202)

removed.

Mr. Bundy. It constitutes a request for such an analysis.

Mr. Schwarz. Was the analysis made?

Mr. Bundy. I don't have any recollection.

Mr. Schwarz. If one were exploring the possibility of
assassination, I take it this kind of analysis is the-.sort
of analysis one would wish to make if one was not simply
ruling assassination out as a matter of principle in the first
instance.

Mr. Bundy. Let me put it another way. If people were
suggesting this to you, and you were curious about whether
it was worth exploring, one way of getting more light on it
without going any further with that notion itself would be
to ask political people, not intelligence people, what they
thought would happen if Castro were not there any longer.

You will notice that this National Security Action
Memorandum is not addressed to the Central Intelligence
Agency, less still to the covert part of the Agency, but
rather to the Secretary of State. And specifically clearly
the action of certain is Assistant Secretary Woodward.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, document 3B indicates -- and you
have had an opportunity to review this one before, I think --
. Bundy. Which one are we now talking about?

Schwarz. 3B, Mr. Parrott's memo.

Bundy. Yes. I have a clearer copy now than I had

TOP SECRET



pone (area 202) 5446000

3
6
ry
&
«
3

sere etieioe Se womtetten: 20003

yesterday

Mr. Schwaxz- exe was 8 presidential
interest in the matter. And then ‘General Taylor told Mr-
parrott that he prefered that the state Department, OF Mrs
woodward in the state Department, not be told about the
presidential interest in the matter First, was there a
presidential interest in the matter? You have no reason to
aoubt that there was, I take fel

mr. Bundy. 1 am sorry, I Was reading a noter and I
aidn't hear the jast part of the question-

mr. Schwarz. 7 askea really to questions, the first
of which is @ direct question, was there 2 presidential
interest in the matter?

Mr. Bundy. There was a presidential ~~ there was NO
doubt in mY mina that when T write in a national security
ction Memorandum a plan as desired, that the desire is not
mine.

Mr. Schwar2- ana the desire is in fact the presidents?

Mr. Bundy. YeS~

Mr. Schwarz. Nowr have you any other recollection of
calling your attention to the gall of 1969?

Mr. Bundy: could 1 g° pack and comment on your earlier
question:

you correctly pointed out that there was concern to

keep the president's name out of this process of request:

TOP SECRET



Fy
ry
&
<
Fy

410 First Street, S:€., Wesninaton, 0.¢. 20003

although you’ correctly. point out that the President was the
one who wanted to know.. My impression here is that whatever
concern we have, General Taylor or I, in the frame of this
language, it was precisely to insulate the President from
any false inference that what he was asking about was
assassination. It is easy to confuse the question. What
are things going to be like after Castro, with the other
question, and we were trying to focus attention on the
information he obviously wanted, which is, what would happen
if we did do this sort of thing, and not get one into the
frame of mind of thinking that he was considering doing it.
That is the distinction, I think.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you have any further recollection of
discussion of this matter in this fall of 1961? And by this
matter I mean either the broader inquiry into what it would
be like if Castro disappeared, or a scenario arising of the
specific subject of assassination.

Mr. Bundy. No, I don't.

Mr. Schwarz. Had you ever heard before I asked you
about the last night about a conversation, an alledged conver- »
sation, between the President and the. Journalist Theodore
Schwartz, and or Mr. Goodwin in this timeframe?

Mr. Bundy? I saw that in the newspapers.

Mr. Schwarz. Or in Esquire magazine?

Mr. Bundy. Wherever I saw it, I saw it in print.

TOP SECRET



Mr. Schwarz. “But you have: no. independent recollection

of that or of the fact that Mr. Schultz met with the President?

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000"

Mr. Bundy. No, But I will say this -- and it is a random
observation -- if I were planning an action of great-sensitivit)
I: wouldn't discuss it with any journalist, I don't think.

Mr. Schwarz. The record from Mr. Schwartz is that the
President said he was opposed to assassination, but that he
brought it up in a conversation with Mr. Schwartz, saying
that he was being encouraged to order assassination.

Now, you have said that you do recall that the subject
was talked about, your words, at some point, and that it
might have been in the fall of 1961.

Mr. Bundy. I wouldn't want to say that it was only in
any given period.

Mr. Schwarz. But that one of the points in which it
might have been discussed was the fall of 1961.

Mr. Bundy. Certainly.

Mr. Schwarz. We are going to come to another period
which relates to you.

Mr. Bundy. May I interrupt one second.

Could we go off the record for a moment?

The Chairman. Yes.

(Discussion off the record.)

The Chairman. Let's put that on the record.

810 First Street, 5.€., Wasnington, O.C. 20003

Would you restate what I have just stated?

TOP SECRET



3
‘
a
ry
£
Fa

{410 Fist Street, 5.€., Wasninaton, B.C. 20003

Mr. Bundy.,.Going back to your: earlier, question
have a message through the courtesy of the committee from the
White House that there is no objection to answering the
question as to how the White House came to show me the NSC file
when I learned of some of the interests of the Rockefeller
Commission, it seemed to me that it would be useful if I
could refresh my recollection. I telephoned Dr. Kissinger,
who-it seemed to. me would be the right person both in his
capacity as Special Assistant and. the capacity as Secretary
of State, and he called me back to say that General Scocroft
would show me the documents I needed, and he did not.

Mr. Smothers. Just one question.

This file contained what, now, other than the NSAM?

Me. Bundy. The only file that I had time to go through
that I can recollect was the NSAM file, which is a relatively
short one.

Mr. Smothers. For which time period?

Mr. Bundy. For the period surrounding August 1962.

Mr. Smothers. It was given to us as an existing file,
or matters that had heen pulled, or organized --

Mr. Bundy. No, they gave me the whole file, they were
all documents that I have been involved with, it was nothing
new to me. But the ones I was looking for were the ones
relating to this subject.

Mr. Smothers. Were these only your documents?

TOP. SECRET



11

12

3
‘
9
£
3

15

16

17

18

‘aio First Street, SE, Wash)

10 |,

14 |)

Mr. Bundy:

I mean documents

vir, smothers. And by your documents,

signed by you?

tie. Bundy. They wouldn't be all signed by me, not

every NSMA was signed by me. But they would all be documents
for which I had responsibility.
And the timeframe was ~~

Mr. Smothers.

Mr. Bundy. sufficiently before and after to give me a

picture of the political context of August 1962 in relation

to Cuba.
Mr. Smothers. And do you recall when you saw this file? |
Mr. Bundy. Well, as I say, it was in the context of my \

appearance before the Rockeferrer Commission. And that would |

pe early this year. I don't have the dates, and I don't :

want to make a mistake on it.

Mr. Smothers. I am not trying to pin the date down. It

would be helpful if you remember. But we can ask. |

Mr. Schwarz.

tT want to make sure that we have what we

Mr. Schwarz.

have done so for accurately summarized, and that you agree \

with it. :
can I use discussion of an assassination, will you

accept that?

It implies more seriousness and more

Mr. Bundy-

sustained argument than I recollect.

TOP SECRET


3
4
a
Fy

scot, 5.€., Washington, O.C: 20003

Mr. Schwarz. So your records are, with respect to
persons asking about--~ .

Mr. Bundy. Or talking about.

we. Schwarz. ~~ or talking about assassination, that
aia occur, that it probably occurred on more than one occasion?

Mr. Bundy. Yes+

Mx. Schwarz. And that one of the occasions may have
been in the fall of 1961?

ne. pundy. What I recollect about the fall of 1962 is
this question, what would happen if he is not there?

ur. Schwarz. Which would be @ relevant question f° awk
if one was talking about assassination.

wir, pundy. Yes. But T have no independent recollection
of talks about assassination, Mr. Schwarz, and I musn't lead
you by saying that I did.

1
Mr. Schwarz. In any event, passing from talking about oF |

discussions oF contingencies, to authorizations for action, |

and specifically focusing on this concrete period, was
assassination authorized in the fall of 1961?

Mr. Bundy. Absolutely not.

Mr. Schwarz. In fact what was authorized in the fall of
1961?

ur. Bundy. Well, we have a long document on that, I
think.

mx. Schwarz. And that is the MONGOOSE program?

TOP. SECRET



3
‘
.
Py
e
5

et, 5.€., Washington, 0.C. 20003

me. Bundy. “And that. ts the MONGOOSE programs.

Mr. Schwarz. In connection with the MONGOOSE. program,
you had some. dialogue about the Attorney General which was
quite extensive. Let me ask you one additional question on
that subject. What was the relationship personally and Pro-
fessionally between the Attorney General and General Maxwell
Taylor?

Mr. Bundy. It was very close. I think that they first
met in a hardworking sense when they were ~- I think they
were both members of the committee to look into what happened |

after the Bay of Pigs, OF if the Attorney General was not

a member he was certainly slosely interested.
Mr. Schwarz. He was a member.
we. Bundy. And T am sure the Attorney General was

one of the people strongly favoring the appointment of General
\

gaylor as the president's military advisor. hey were both
active and ardent tennis players, they liked each other, and
they visited back and forth. one of the Kennedy children
js named for General gaylor, I think. There was 4 relation of ©
real trust and confidence between them. And the measure of
its strength is that I think 3 easily survived later very
snart differences over Vietnam:

wr. Schwarz. Now recognizing that, what I am asking for
you is a matter of opinion and not a fact, given your under-

standing, of that relationship, will you give us your opinion

TOP SECRET



3
i
«
Py
g
<
5

ano ews street ©, washington: 0.6: 20008

the likelihood chat
qgaylor's Chairmanship of the
Maxwell Taylor understood to

Group Augmented?

“special Group Augmented ~~ was

be the Chairman of the Special

Mr. Bundy. -It certainly is my understanding -

Mr. Schwarz. Would Robert Kennedy in your opinion,

in the fact of Maxwell Taylor's chairmanship of the special

Group Augmented, have developed a bach-channel relationship

with someone else for the Pu
castro?
Mr. Bundy. No-

Mr. Schwarz. Now, in ct

rpose of assassinating Fidel

onnection with MONGOOSE, you were

a member of the Special Group Augmented, were you?

Mr. Bundy. Iwas. T¥

put I was a member +

asnit its most faithful attender,

Mr. Schwarz. qo the extent that you aid :attend, would

you describe the nature of the meetings, what kind of items

were brought before Your what was the process for decision

making?
Mr. Bundy. It is very

documentary reconstruction.

difficult to do that without

put in the broadest sense, I

think I can do it. The kinds of things would be Cuban exiles, |

training them, now united are they, whose the leaderr and

what kind of operations against the island are we able to

mount, specific proposals: 3

ust because I have seen it in

TOP SECRET



3
ry
&
Fy

Street, 5.€., Wasnington, ©.C, 20003

the last two or three days -- I’ saw a “gabotage program which
involved, I think, oil facilities, trancportation facilities
and a couple of other categories. m+ exfiltration was a
frequent problem. I don't recall that’we worried so much
about getting the agents in, but theré seems always to be
a great problem about getting them out. And that sort of
thing that I mentioned, propaganda, there was the one island
enterprise -- was Florida doing much good, and how much
does it cost and things of that sort.

Mr. Schwarz. At any MONGOOSE meeting did Mr. Harvey

state that he had taken steps to assassinate Fidel Castro?

Mr. Bundy. I never heard anything from Mr. Harvey in
context in any meeting at any time on that subject.
Mr. Schwarz. And it.was clear that the President was

person basically in control, perhaps not of the details,

of the general program; is that right?

Mr. Bundy. The President had worked it. The day to
day operations where in the hands of different departments
for different categories of programs. The coordinator was
General Lansdale, and’ the Chairman of the Committee was General
Taylor.

Mr. Schwarz. Would you turn to Lansdale Tab 38, please?

Where is the August 8 document that transmits the new
guidelines for MONGOOSE?

Mr. Kelley. That is Lansdale Tab 20.

TOP SECRET



410 Fist Street, S.€., Washington, 0.C. 20003

Mr. Schiwar:
guidelines.

Mr. Kelley. 38.

Mr. Schwarz. 38A.

Was there a change in or about August between what was
characterized as Phase I of Operation MONGOOSE and a step-up

activities under the MONGOOSE?

Mr. Bundy. It appeared to be so from the documents I have

been reviewing. I couldn't give you an independent recollecti:
on that point.

Mr. Schwarz. You have got no reason to doubt that there
was some step-up commencing in August?

Mr. Bundy. I think that sounds reasonable. I just
don't have any expertise other than as a reader many years
later.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, with respect to the August -10 meeting,
you have previously testified - - I am not — you have --
do you recall the ‘subject of assassinations being brought up?

Mr. Bundy. In the August 10 meeting? No.

Mr. Schwarz. Specifically, do you recall Mr. McNamara
ever bringing the subject of assassinations up?

Mr. Bundy. No. ,

Mr. Schwarz. We have shown you notes of Mr. Harvey on
August 14, and General Lansdale's memorandum of August 13

that refers to the, liquidation of leaders and certain things

TOP SECRET

1
on

i
|
/
i
|
i
|
|
|



2
3
«
Py
&
<
Fy

1. 5.E., Wasnington, ©.C. 20003

whitea out. "Do you. remember ‘seeing those?

Mr. Bundy. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. Do they refresh your recollection?

Mr. Bundy. No. They give me no -= they do not persuade
me. I simply don't from that suddenly have any flash, so and
so said that, not at all.

Mr. Schwarz. But you don't have any reason to question
them, you just don't have a recollection, is that fair?

Mr. Bundy. I simply tell you that I was in a large

meeting in which a great many subjects were discussed, and
I have no recollection of that.

Mr. Schwarz. I will pass around Mr. Bundy's notes from
the meeting. If someone thinks they should be marked we can
do that.

Mr. Bundy. If the Committee is feeling charitable I hope |
they may not go into them.

Mr. Schwarz. gI don't think they will, but I thought we
would pass them around in case they were.

The Chairman. Let the Senators see them.

Mr. Schwarz. We will make one observation, though. Bot
Mr. Rusk's calendar and Mr. Bundy's notes do not indicate
Mr. Lansdale's being present at the meeting, although the
minutes of the meeting do. And I take it you have no

independent. recollection of whether or not he was not there.

Mr. Bundy. I have no objection to entering anything in

TOP SECRET



aio Fuse Street, 56, Wasrinatom, 0.C- 20003

anything that remo!
relevant. It simply {illustrates what ‘the hand will do
while the mind is elsewhere. ;

the Chairman. Can you identify what you meant by
words, "Worms who were opposing".

Mr. Bundy. “worms” was a Cuban word, gusanoB, and it
was their own word for themselves, Cubans in opposition to
Castor.

(piscussion off the record.)

Mr. Schwarz. Mr. Bundy, would you mark with a B your

notes of the August 10 meeting.

And Mr. Reporter, will you mark that as Bundy Exhibit 4.

(Document referred to was marked as

Bundy Exhibit No, 4 for identificati'

TOP SECRET

|

q
|

i
|
\
\



3
Py
&
<
:

410 Finat Stveet, S.€., Washinaton, D.C. 20003

The Chairman.’ Going back £9 the doodie sheet, the

item in your handwritten underlined -- do you have this?

Mr. Bundy. The Lansdale concept?

The Chairman. Is that concept?

Mr. Bundy. Concept. I don't wonder you ask.

The Chairman. Do you recall what you meant by that?

Mr. Bundy. My guess -- and this is a reconstruction
really -- is that that has to do with the Lansdale plan which
we were referring to a minute ago, his long memorandum of
August 8, outlining all the things that might now be done
under the MONGOOSE.

Mr. Smothers. Would that have been planned plus?

Mr. Bundy. We argue about plans -- this is-again
reconstruction -- and I think I saw it in some discussion --
we argued about plans A and B and C, and settled on so-called
B Plus, which I hope you have: for the record, because that
would show what the decision was.

Mr. Schwarz. We do have it.

The Chairman. This was the 10th day of August 1962. And
that was about the time that some concern was given to be
expressed as to the possibility that the Russians were moving
into Cuba -- moving missiles into Cuba. You have on the
memorandum, I think, "USSR will put missiles". Do you recall
what you meant by that?

Mr. Bundy. I think.what that is, a hand following

TOP SECRET



3
«
Py
&
‘
3

. 5cE,, Wamnington, .C. 20003

aio First

be Mr. Mecone
The Chairman.
Where are we,
Mr. Schwarz...” 1/<-'which will you please mark
as Exhibit’ 5. “You wild fine it-at Lansdale Tab 42
(Document referred to was marked
as Lansdale Exhibit No. 5 for

identification.)

TOP SECRET



pal
List
G
lon
a
Hest
co
n

Wano @ PAUL

1, 5.£.. wasninaton, 0.C- 20003

Bundy?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, I have.

Mr. Schwarz. This reflects a number of options or
study that the President called for in the light of the
evidence of new block activities.in Cuba. Was that evidence
connected with the missiles?

“Mr. Bundy. Well, there was quite a buildup reported
in the press and in the intelligence initially of Soviet
military personnel, of Soviet surface-to-air missiles. And
the crucial question was, what for and what is coming. And
the Director of Central Intelligence -- who was proved in
the end to be right -.- was almost alone in his belief that
this was going to lead to a nuclear capability in Cuba that
could hit the U.S. And he raised these questions in the
month of August in a number of different ways. And the
National Security meeting from which this memorandum emerged
reviewed those problems, and as the memorandum itself shows,
the heavy emphasis of the President's concern and of the
Group's concern on the likelihood that developed and what
should be done about it, or ,in preparation for it, in August.

mr. Schwarz. The memorandum has quite a range of matters
to be considered. And they range from, if I can use the |
characterization, on the soft side, Item 1, which was consider=

|
ation of the U.S.: pulling itsimissiles near the Soviet Union oy

TOP SECRET



mone (Area 202) $44-6000,

ton. D.C, 20003

Jano First street, SE. Was

of Turkey, two, on the hard side, ‘Séema’7 ané 8 , which

are military possibilities of invasion or some other military
possibilities in connection with Cuba. Now, is that @ ‘
typical exercise that that White House, the President and
yourself would go through to look at a number of options.
ranging from the soft to the very tough?

me. Bundy. Yes-

tet me say in passing that there was nothing soft about
the problem of getting the Jupiter missiies out of Cuba.

ur. Schwarz. Conciliatory; would that be the word?

Mr. Bundy. It problem of actually getting them out
unich we came to in the following year was one which
aemanded great diplomatic energy and finesse oP the part of
the State and Defense Departments. But you are right. A
wide range of issues charactically would be discussed. And
the President had a habit of trying to look at problems from
many angles.

uc, Schwarz. Were you fully in touch with the President
in connection with what became the missile crisis.

Mr. Bundy. Yes+

wie, Schwarz. Was there any discussion of assassinating
ridel Castro during that period?

Mr. Bundy. None-

Mc. Schwarz. Was there agreement reached that as part

of the solution to the missile erisis that related to U.S.

TOP SECRET



10 Fiest Street, $.€., Washington, 0.C. 20003

2

i:
action vis-a-vis. Cul There’ was'aso-called no invasion

pledge. There was an “undertaking on our side that if the
offensive capabilities ---and there was an argument on what
those were -~ were removed, we on our side would undertake --
I don't want to present this language as if it is deeply
mathmatically precise -- but there was an undertaking .on our
side that there would not be an assassination of Cuba.

The Chairman. Was that ever published?

Mr. Bundy. Yes. If my language is inconsistent with
what was published, then what was published should take
precedence, because I am only trying to report that.

Mr. Schwarz. Did this agreement exclude the sabotage
of Cuban facilities?

Mr. Bundy. Not in my view or in anyones’ view in the
U.S. Government. Just to give you an example of things it
dia not exclude, it did not exclude continued surveillance,
which is not perfectly normal in relations between friendly
states, that you overfly and check out what they are doing.
put surveillance was an explicit and public part of the
necessary concern for U.S. satisfaction with the resolution
of the Cuban missilevcrisis.

Mr. Schwarz. Recognizing again that this is calling for
an opinion, during the course of the missile crisis did
anything happen with respect to the attitudes and actions of

either the President or the Attorney General that in your

TOP SECRET



g
6
2
z

or the other of ‘them’ordered the ‘assassination of Fidel

Castro?

TOP SECRET



too, =
Mr. Bundy. We ices aro a great many thingd that
enter into my juagment: “about uhether, the President or the
Attorney General would: ever have done that, and I
to say, Mr. Chairman, that the most important point I want to
make, just from where I stand personally is that I find the
notion that they separately, privately encouraged, ordered,
arranged efforts at assassination totally inconsistent with
what I knew of both of them. And as an example, I would cite --|
and only one .among very many ~~ the role played by the Attorney
General in the Missile Crisis, because it was he who, most
emphatically, argued against a so-called surgical air strike

or any other action that would bring death upon many, in favor

wane & PAUL

| of the more careful approach which was eventually adopted by
the. President’ in the form of a quarrantine or a blockade.

The Chairman, Well, Mr. Bundy, let me put what may be

| the sane question a little different way,

You came to know both the Prasident and the Attorney

General rather intimately in the period of your long associa-
tion with them, did you not?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, Mr. Chaizman.

The Chairman. Based upon that acquaintanceship, do you
believe, under any of the circumstances that occurred during

that whole period, either one of them would have authorized

the assassination of Fidel Castro?

‘ayo Eves Street, $.€., Washington, OC. 20003

Mr. Bundy. I most emphatically do not.

TOP SECRET



WARD & PAUL

“aso Fst siveet, S-€.. Wasningten, D.C. 20003

another way.
Ifyou have heard testimony that there was pressure to do
something about Cuba, there was. There was an effort, poth from|

the President in his style and from the Attorney General in his |
i

style to keep the government active in looking for ways to |

weaken the Cuban regime. There was. But if.you, as I under-
stand it, and not even thos who pressed the matter most closel
as having essentially been inspired by the White House can tell i
you that anyone ever said to them, go and kill anyone. \
Lat me say one other thing about thase two meny and that is

that there was something that they really wanted done, they did)
\

not leave people in doubt, so that on the one hand, I*would

say about their character, their purposes and their nature and |

the way they confronted international affairs that I find it

incredible that they would have ordered oF authorized explicitly
or implicitly an assassination of Castro. I also feel that i ;
contrary to everything that I know about their character, they
had had such a decision and such @ purpose, people would not
have been in any doubt about it.

The Chairman. ‘Then have you any way to explain to the
Committee, or any explanation to give to the Committee, as ‘Oo
why Mr, Helms would testify that he was under, or that he had
no doubts, that the Agency was fully authorized to proceed to

not only dayelop schemes, but to engag? in active attempts to

TOP SECRET



E., Washington, ©.€. 20003,

assassinate castro? ‘

Mr. Bundy. I have no explanation of that.

Senator Mondale. Part of our attempt to solve this riddle
of what would appear to be a record at the highest level, which
_is at least not directly an order of an assassination plot or
attempt, and square it with the fact ‘that attempts were made, is|
to seek to understand the personalities and motivations and
methods of operation of people further down the chain of
command.

We have heard quite a few evaluations ‘of. Mr. Harvey as
a free-wheeling, James Bond kind of operator, and it has been
suggested through some disquiet and apprehension at higher
levels about the nature of his conduct. And I would -- I don't}
know. I am beginning to have doubts about Mr. Helms whom T

have always admired. There is, for example, a memorandum that

is in the record:to Mr. Rusk in response to a memo which the

Secretary wrote Mr. Helms following an article appearing in :

t
some Cuban newspaper charging that the Mafia had been hired and
i

used by the CIA to assassinate Castro, in which Helms specifi-
cally and categorically denies flat out that any such relation- {
ship existed when in fact it did and when in fact Mr. Helms was
part of it.

Now, how do we sort this out? Is Mr. Helms someone who
might have, on his own, gone beyond the authority conferred

upon him by persons higher up?

TOP SECRET



410 First Street, S.€., Wasnington, D.C. 20003

Mc. Bundy.’; Well, -if you, had “asked me that question a

year ago, Senator, I would have said in my experience ‘with him
he was not such an officer, but I-have no way of dealing with
the kind of thing you have just described.

Senator Mondale. It shatters me because I have always

raspectéd him. Because we know that these assassination ee
|

occurred. We know that Mr. Helms was a part of it. We have
testimony that Mr. Helms and Mr. Harvey met and agreed “not to
tell Mr. McCone what they were doing. And then we have a
document here -- well, that was Cubella -- and then we have a
mamo from Helms to Rusk which, in Minnesota language looks
like a lie. Now, I just don't know. Maybe there are other
explanations.

The Chairman. The memo to Rusk had to do with Cubella
rather than the Mafia.

Senator Mondale. Is that it? It was not the Mafia?

Mr. Schwarz. It was Cubella, except if you just substitute

Cubella for the word Mafia.
The Chairmah. What you said otherwise is correct.
Senator Mondale. But he was involved personally with

Cuballa, wasn't he? And he knew that, and this memo said no.
Is there a plausible explanation?

Mr. Madigan. Helms has one.
Senator Baker. Helms’ position is that he did not lie,

that he did not have anything to do with the Cubella incident,

TOP SECRET



WARO & PAUL

1.5... Wasninaton, B.C. 20003

ano Fins

is that right?

mr. Madigan. 1. think Helms ‘claimed that Cubella is in

the strict context of the memos, operating on his own.

The Chairman. Well, I believe rather than speculate, we
had better look back carefully, and that ought, to be another
subject for Mr. Helms when he returns.

Senator Mondale. Wel}, then I will istand corrected.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Would you yield?

y want to make the sama record note that I suspend the

comment I made about that document yesterday- I thought it was

a flat-out lie.

Senator Mondale. 1 did too. T withdraw that, and I think
it would be good if the staff would write us a little memo.

Senator Baker. Fritz might like to know that yesterday 4
asked Counsel if they, as 4 combined staff operation, would
prepare for us, and I believe they agreed to do this, prepare

for us two briefs, one citing the testimony and the exhibit

evidence, that would support an inference that the authority
was Presidential; and another brief, citing the record and the
exhibit evidence citing the inference that it was not. There
is an abundance of both, | to be frank with you. So that we
can lay them down side by side and make our own separate
judgment.

po I understand the ataff is going to do it?

The Chairman. That is right.

TOP SECRET



i
8
ry
f
3
i
é

be given a break, Mre BY : '

Mr. Bundy. Do you want ma to come back, Mr. Chairman?

the Chairman. , Yes,’ please ‘Lf.you want to take a break
for about five or ten minutes and then be available out in the
anteroom, that will-give us ‘a chance to take care of this
business.

(Pause)

(Whereupon at 11:17 a.m. the witness left the hearing

room.)

TOP SECRET



Ra)
ey
tsa
»
co
ia
Cc
Red
nn

‘aio Furst Sureet, S-£., Washington, O.C. 20003

| before the Committee in the hopes that these delays can be

| personal conveniance into this consideration unduly, but if

ane chalftan
reasons unexplained with tha Siatice Department. T have
already mentioned one aspect of that problem, in connection with)
the failure of the Department to supply most of the material
that we have requested, though that request was put to the

Department two months ago, and it has been sdecided already by

the Committee that Mr. Levy and Mr. Kelley should be brought

overcome.

the first question before the Committee is when that can
be done. It is suggested that the Attorney General has Tuesday |
morning available. If it is all right with the Committee, I 1
would like to schedule his appearance, together with that of

Mr. Kelley, for Tuesday morning.

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, I don't mean to intrude my

the Attorney General could do it at Tuesday noon, say, it would
help me. I have a commitment in Tennessee Monday night. Tf |
1 catch the Tuesday morning plane I can't get here until 11:50. i
\
If that's not possible, I will cancel Monday. i
tha Chairman. ‘This is procedural in charactar, so it is :
not altogether important that every member be present. T thi
that from the standpoint of this Committee schedule, Tuesday
morning, the Attorney General and fir, Kelley would be good,

would it not?

TOP SECRET



~
feet
tr
a
»
e
c
Los
Pray
N

WARD & PAUL

1. S.E., Watnington, D.C, 20003

Mr. Miller. Yes.

Senator Baker, Well, why don't you leave it Tuesday
morning. e

The Chairman. We are only informed that he has Tuesday
morning available.

Mr. Gitenstein.. I ‘apdke to Doug Marvin, one of his
Executive Assistants, and he said Tuesday was a possibility,
Wednesday is a problem because he has a Cabinet meeting and
he wasn't sure about Tuesday and he was going to gat back to
us in the next hour or two.

The Chairman. Well, let's see if we can't set it up
Tuesday.

Senator Baker. If,you can set it up Tuesday afternoon and
nobody objects, that would be better for me.

‘The Chairman, Well, 4£ we can, we'll set it up Tuesday
afternoon. :

Senator Mathias. What is that for?

The Chairman. That is for Levy and Kelley to appear for
the purpose of telling us why they can't, or why it has taken |
two months and we. still are waiting for the documents, most :
of the documents we requested. i j

Senator Mathias. Well, I won't be here, but that's no
reason.

Senator Baker. Ara you going to be here Tuesday

morning?

TOP SECRET



Fist Street, 5.€., Wasningtan, 0.€::20003

a

Senator Mathias. Don't worry aboutiit.

The Chairman. All right. ;

The second thing I would like to bring up in this connec-
tion.is that I was informed yesterday by the staff that the
FBI has undoubtedly received instructions that none of its
agents ieee to be interrogated or interviewad by the staff of
this Committes. I would like someone who knows the details and
can be very specific to tell the Committea the exact status of
that situation, how we have!.been informed and if we can rely on

that information as being authoritative.

Mr. E11if£. Yesterday morning at 9:00 o'clock or shortly
thereafter, I received a phone call from the: FBI's liaison with |
this Committee with respect to a series of interviews that had
been arranged with the Bureau some relating to tha Huston Plan,
soma relating to Martin Luther King matters. I was informed tha

|

I had to address this request to the Justice Department in ordey

to secure approval for these staff interviews.

I then called our liaison in the Justice Department,

|| spacial Counsel William O'Conner, and he told me I might as

well submit these requests in writing, because the Justice

Department would take at least ten days to give us an answer

|| on these requests and he didn't know what the answer was going

to be.

I then explored with him what some of the reasons might be;

for this delay and what the problems seemed to be, and the‘

TOP SECRET



WARD & PAUL

4410 Fist Street, 5-€., Wasmington. 0.6 20003

prone (Ares 202) $44-6000

explanation that hé gave me verbally twas that the fact that
‘the Committee had notified the Department in its letter of
June 27th that certain cases that we were investigating were
abuse cases meant that any interviews that would be conducted
in connection with those matters would be considered by the
pepartient to be denand interviews, and therefore this “brought
into play the provisions of the Federal Ragulations which

require the Attorney General's approval. :

Then the question as to whether the Attorney General would |
approve or not involved two issues. First was that since we

had indicated the likelihood of an abuse in a particular area

that the Department itself would have to consider whethar it
should institute a criminal investigation of that matter, and
then, if so, whether our interview would interfere with that
ongoing criminal investigation.

And second, that the Department considered that any inter~

views undertaken by the Committee in such cases might inadver~

tently immunize the subject of the interview, and he referred |

| generally to some cases and we have attempted to do legal

research on those cases and find this to ba a very shaky position
put they have good lawyers over there and if they want to come
up with 4 sophisticated argument, we expect that they could be
able to do that. :

ha Chairman. Lawyers can make an argument over anything.

Ne. ‘elite. That's so. And so the final conclusion is

TOP SECRET



. Washington, 0.€. 20003

in every instance and this position is very difficult for us to
accept because interviews, the low-key interview in the non-
pressure situation is an opportunity to elicit information that
is not matched by the formal subpoena situation, and to be
able to proceed initially by interview and then confirm, under
oath, via subpoena, is just absolutely essential for an effecti
,investitation. So this is where we stand on this issue.

We later’received a letter pertaining to an earlier
request for interviews relating to FBI COINTELPRO disruptive
activities where we had asked for certain interviews, and this
letter did not go into specifics, but merely stated that there
were problems that would have to be resolved, that the charac-
terization of an area of the Committee inquiry as abuse might

significantly alter arrangements of access to witnesses who

are present employees of the Department.

The Chairman. In other words, the thrust of all of this

is that the more serious the nature of the inquiry, the more
difficult it will be to obtain the information, that if we are
concerned about a possible illegality or ebuse, then the
Department will make it as difficult as possible for us to
secure the information.

Mr. plliff.. I might add that it seems +- be in the naturd
of the documents also, the more serious the ‘allegation; the nore

resistance there is to providing us --

TOP SECRET



WARO @ PAUL

“aio First Street, S.£.. Washington, 0.¢. 20003,

They ‘Have ‘givemad.a géod:many Wocuments,’ adpheynes. >

have not given us the documents on the controversial matters.
They've given us plenty of documentation on less controversial
matters.

The Chairman. I think it is ironic that the resistance we |
get from the Justice Department is so much more substantial than
the re@istance we have gotten from the CIA.

Senator Baker. That's not necessarily so. I agree with
you the resistance is unfortunate and‘inappropriate, but I
can think of a request for documentation from the CIA that is
now more than a month old and they haven't had the good grace
to tell us no. They have told us nothing.

The Chairman. But on the whole wa've gotten a greater
measure of cooperation from the CIA.

Senator Schweiker. I wonder, does either counsel know,
Mr. Chairman, whether the Attorney General or the FBI Director

initially confirmed whether they made any commitments to

Congress about supplying documents or materials to the

Committee?

Mr. Miller. Senator Mathias can tell you, and Senator
Hart.

Senator Schweiker. Might there be a statement in their
testimony in confirmation, in agreeing to furnish Congress with!
materials of this nature?

Senator Mathias. Yes, those statements were made, but let:

TOP SECRET



WARD 8 PAUL

1. S.£., Washington, 0.€. 20003

me say, since my opinion has been asked, that I had a most

discouraging talk with the Attorney General a couple of weeks
ago. I went down to-talk to him about privacy legislation and

the Department of Justice at the moment is taking about as hard

i
a line as any kind that I know of in the last fifteen years.

Its whole kind of attitude --

Senator Tower. I just wonder if we shouldn't take this up
with them.

The Chairman. I think we should, but I think we should
also, in advance of that, in view of the kinds of signals we
are now getting from the Justice Department, indicate that we
believe that these objections that they are raising, or questions
that they are raising, are a serious impediment procedurally
to our Committee and that we have every intention of interviewina
such agents as may be necessary, and that if necessary, we will
subpoena them. ;

Mr. El1iff. Our feeling, is it is preferable not to
proceed by subpoena, but we do have a subpoena for one FBI
agent which we brought with us today which we would like to
proceed with.

The Chairman. Can you give us the facts of that case?

L

.Mr. Epstein. This is an agent who is presently in’ Atlanta,
Georgia, and the information wa've received from other witnessed
was that-in 1964, I believe, he visited a newspaper editor in

Atlanta, closed the door, put his hat on the desk, and said he

TOP SECRET



reet, $:£., Wasnington, O.C. 20003

ano Fist

H life which he claimed he had learned from a confidential source,

| to the circumstances surrounding that vielt to a newspaperman,

| at both levels to get their reaction to both types of requests.

4
noted.from reading The Constitution that we ware picturing
pr. King a8 a moral leader and. something of a hero and then this|

agent went on to talk in great detail about Dr. King's personal
and our interest in interviewing this agent obviously relates

who directed him to do that, what the purpose of that visit
was, whether there was any documentation --
Senator Baker. Who was the newspaper man?

Mx. Epstein. His name was Eugene Patterson and he was

with the Atlanta Constitution at that time. He's now with a
newspaper in Flordda.

The Chairman. Do you believe the subpoena now to be
necessary because, of what you have been‘ told by the Justice
Department?

Mr. ELLi££. We have other agents which we would like to
proceed with at the interview level, so we would like to procee
What is their reaction to a subpoena going to be, what is
their reaction to a renewed request to interview going to be?

$0 we crystallize each issus.

Senator Tower. I still think it might be good for us to
hold that up until we talk about it, since they are coming in
Tuesday morning or Tuesday sometime, it's not going to push

things too far.

TOP SECRET



5.E., Washington, 0.C, 20003

senator Hart of Michigan. Would it be useful, at least,

if it is the feeling of the Committee to authorize you people,

or Bill, today, to say that the Committee barely suppressed its |

outrage and that it won't do, and we will see you Tuesday?
Don't wait till Tuesday.
the Chairman. I think something should «be said, actually.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Well, it prejudges’ the hell out

of it, but unless we get an extension to 1980 for this Committeg

The Chairman. I think you're right. Something needs to bd
said publicly that the Committee is determined that we feel
that not only has time -- we've already said, we've already
made public the letter we have sent. I think a follow-up needs
to be that we are concerned that impediments. that are now being
suggested which would interfere with the Committee's right to
interrogate witnesses, we do not intend to allow the Conmittee's
work to.be obstructed and if necessary we will be prepared to

subpoena witnesses though we would hope that that would not

have to be the case.

Senator Baker. And we are going to try to work it out
from Tueday-

The Chairman. We're going to try to work it out from
Tuesday.

Senator Baker. I have a business matter.

The Chairman. So does Senator Mondale.

Senator Mondale. Just one point.

TOP SECRET



in
tn
ta
fon
Del
ad
c
Cc
sc
Ls

WARD @ PAUL

410 Fiest Street, 5.€., Warmington, ©.€. 20003

Phone (Aras 202) 544-6000,

proposition, so that in our CIA matters, while they might raisé

There is this troublesome dictun in U.S. vs. Nixon about
what might be nondiscoverabls, all of which seems to bear on
sort of foreign policy matters

Am I correct -- I think we're going to hear a lot about
that -- but am I correct in reading that decision that it
really ‘* almost s.wtandal wholly that they have the duty to

produce all of the documentation and that case holds for that

some of this dictum, the FBI has no such defense, unless we're
really trodding on those same grounds.

Mr. Epstein. Of course, there is another issue in the
Bureau materials, because wa're on the issue of investigative
files, which has never been really litigated, and that
is the propriety of Executive Privilege when it comes to that

I might add that the importance of the issue of going
to subpoena on these really raises that, because if we go to

subpoena on documents, then that is going to be worthless unlesq

we know in advance that we are going to win in court in a short!

j
period of time, including whether we have jurisdiction to be H
there. :
Senator Mondale. In other words, you are saying they are
going to raise the Executive Privilege defense, but that was
the Nixon defense.
Mr. Epstein. 1 think that thev would love for us to be in}

the position of having to issue a subpoena for documents,

TOP SECRET



WARO & PAUL

20003

410 Flest Street, S.€., Washington. 0.C.

because then it would bea year. é :
Mr. Schwarz. The problem ‘tis ‘the ‘Ervin ‘Committee ‘was -found
not :to ‘have ‘jurisdiction ‘to issue thé igubpoena.

The Chairman. Well, we know we're going to do the next

Now, may I raise one other point --

i

|

|

step on that, E
|

|

Senator Baker. That's not quite true. The Ervin. Committed
wasn't found to have no jurisdiction or standing heel seek the |
documents or to issue subpoenas, but they failed to carry the
burden of proving that it was required under the mandate of
their inquiry.

Now, I have another matter,. Frank.

The Chairman, Wa have two or three matters. Can I
recognize Senator Mondale first, because he had asked it.

Senator Mondale. A few days ago, when the White House

people were here, they showed us a document which we have in

our files which disclosed that President Nixon in 1970 had
ordered the delivery of three machine guns to some people in

Chile and had done so ‘with instructions that that order should

| Jo directly + to some subordinate officials in CIA and should he

|) done without advising the official channels. And- it is thought .

that they were directed against a General Schneider, who was

a top official in the Chilean government opposed to a coup.

| He was a Constitutionalist.

Schneider was killed, and there was a machine gun in the

TOP SECRET



waRo & PAUL

S.€., Warmington, D.C. 20003

possession of those who ‘did’ 8

Now what I would like is,"while we finish this ‘cycle on

assasainations, that we include among our studies of alleged
assassinations this matter:and we request, tha documentation, of
all appropriate docunents;:,under, the category of assassination.
Mr. Schwarz. Senator, when that document came to our —
attention, we questioned a person who expands upon the allega-
tions contained in the documents. I wrote a letter to the
White House and the CIA. We wanted forthwith to receive
copies of all such documents relating to the passage of weapons.
We have had no response from the CIA.

Mr. Hills, we met with in the White Mouse a week ago

Tuesday or Wednesday, and I said wa must have the documents and

‘he said you cannot have them until you have the briefing on

Chile, because we refuse to accept this as an assassination
plan.

The Chairman. May I make this suggestion, Senator

| Mondale?

First of all, I believe that it is absolutely imperative
that the Committee complete its investiqation on th4 issue of
the assassination of foreign government leaders before the
racess and issue its report. That puts us under great pressure ||

but if we don't do it, I am going to ask the Committee to stay

| on the job. I would like very much to go to China, that is my

first opportunity in forty years to go to China, and T have

TOP SECRET



410 Furst Street, S.€., Wasnington, B.C. 20003

the Committee to continue its work right ‘into the recess until

this is done. Otherwise, we are in a hopeless situation.

Senator Schwaiker. TI think, Mr. Chairman, if we don't

finish it by then, we never will

The Chairman. We never willl

I think we should look into this assassination, it is an
assassination. I think it's part of our responsibility to
look into it. But it is not an assassination, whatever the
CIA input may have pean it is not an assassination of a head
of state, and so therefore I don't want it to, further. delay
the completion of this phase of our inquiry.

Now with that in mind, I am in full accord with what

. || Senator Mondale says.

Senator Schweiker. Could we put it to another phase and
not in this phase?
‘he Chairman. Yes, we are going to have a phase on Chile, |
anyway. It would fit into the Chilean case.
Senator Mondale. I+ is significant because if we accept

their interpretation that it is not assassination, then we

‘ll avoid an understanding that we had that these documents, all
i

| supposed to be available -. then we get into a’ discovery problem. |

In other words, T-know what we're getting at, and I would
guess that we should proceed as rapidly as possible, but we

shouldn't hold up the cycla of --

TOP SECRET



Phone (Aires 202)

7 410 First Street, S.E., Wasnington, 0.¢. 20003

| entiate it from the initial report, which does deal with

|| reply reminds me, you say that we are going to conclude assassinp-

tions and issue our report before we go on recess. I think that,

|| now what do we do? I don't think we have decided yet how we

| about a week or so before Allende was killed, just by coincidence

| regards it in the category of assassination, but we can differ-

is another question

along the same lines, and that is why I’don't want to see it
cloud this issue, and that is the Glomar Explorer, stopped by

the NLRB proceeding was shown to have stopped in Chile just

for mechanical repairs. I would like to find out that one,

too.

But this is a whole new thing. This puts us into the
Chile thing. Because I'm just as interested as you are. I
don't see that it hurts anything to put it in a Phase IT
proposition with Chile.

The Chairman. And Fritz, we can say that the Committee

foreign leaders.
Senator Hart of Michigan. Mr. Chairman, before you go to

a new subject -- and I am uneasy raising this -- but your

i
disposes too readily of the problem that is going to confront |

us in a very few weeks, and that is having heard all of this,

are going to present, once we open the doors, we've got to know
how we ars going to handle it. I don't think we ought to lock {

‘ourselves in at the moment to a written report, as we leave towr,

TOP SECRET



Phone (Ares 202)

10 First Street, 5.€., Washington, ©.C. 20003

the first of August.

Senator Baker. JI agree with you 100 percent.

The Chairman. This Committee has got to get its business
done and I know the purpose of the delay downtown is to make it
as difficult as possible for:us to cope with our work, We will |

be engulfed completely if we cannot deal with this phase of

our work in the- time that we have given it and put it over until

the ‘fall.. What I'm, suggesting:dsiinot ‘just: ‘simply.'the -report.of

| the Committee. We are going to complete our witnesses, “2

we have time to issue such a report.

I am also suggesting the recommendations the Committee will
make with respect to this issue. Wa have to put this behind
us. It is just folly not to do it, because we must get on with

the other phases of the report and thera is no reason we cannot

not going to be any more advantaged or any better advantaged

to then go out on our recass and come back and take it up anew

|
|
|
|
do it. If we can't do it by the end of this month, then we're !
|
i

in the fall. It is a very clear-cut issue.

Senator Nart.of Michigan. But what is not clear-cut to
me is how we report to our peers.

The Chairman. We will take that up.

Senator Schweiker. We discussed that at one meeting. We
had a little informal meeting. Maybe you missed that, Phil.

The Chairman. Thare is nothing that could be gained by

putting it off or defering it or postponing it. It is very

TOP SECRET:



410 First Street, 5... Washington, 0.€. 20003

clear that we are working at a highly intensified pace
order to get the necessary evidence, and then there is no reason
why we can't address ourselves to this question.

Senator Hart of Michigan. ‘The only reason that I raise
that is that I am as anxious to conclude this chapter, but this
Committes, asa Committee, then must decide the ultimate
question: do you hava open hearings? Do you go to a closed
Senate? |

The Chairman. That will be a top item of consideration tor
the Committee. I have only deferred this discussion thinking !
that we had best get all of the evidence first. ‘That is all. |

Then we will take it up at an appropriate time and discuss it.

|
Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, do I understand the situation
i

to be then it is your hope that wa will finish our Executive
Session testimony before the August recess, but not a report

to the Senate?

The Chairman. No, that is not my position. My position is

that we should complete the testimony and make our report end

recommendation on this issue.

Senator Baker. But without prejudice to a future determine-

tion of whether we have public hearings?
i

The Chairman. Oh, yes, that's always open to us. Aut Tf

| let me make it -- let's not have any misunderstanding there.
i s

It is always open to this Committee to decide whether

public hearings on this or any other issue should be arranged

“TOP SECRET



|. S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

‘Phone (Aras 202) 544-6000:

23 caer :
the fall. Obviously, we cannot‘have them until fall.

. My personal position is against public hearings on the
issue of assassination. But what I am proposing is that the
Committee make its report, and‘ I think that is a question the
Committea will have to take up and decide, and I think the .
appropriate way to disclose these facts, and I parsonally belie
they must be disclosed, 1s through a report ofthe Comittes
that is made public, and T think that report should be made
before the recess.

Senator Baker, I don't think we can do that.

Senator Tower. Mr. Chairman, physically we have got three

weeks. Whether we can hear all of these witnesses and sit down
and prepare the report and have the Committee agree on the
report, report it to the Senate and have the Senate act on it
in three weeks is questionable in my mind. I, like you, want
to do it, but I wonder if we can do a workmanlike job and do

it in that time.

The Chairman. Well, iet me say this,“that the very request
that Senator Baker has made, and T hope we don't get into a too
prolonged iliscussion on this issue because we cannot decide
it right now, but the very report that Senator Baker has asked
for is now in the Pore of preparation. That report gives,
by necessity, as much of the meat, the briefs that Senator
Baker has asked for, as much of the report, laying out the

factual, the evidence that the Committee has seen. And I thin!

TOP SECRET



1. 5:8, Wasningten, O.€. 20003

this can be done. I know that we have to work very hard to do
it, but I know that our position will be much worse in every
“way if we fail to do it.

Now without trying to decide that now, let us proceed.

Senator Schweiker. May I make one comment on that, Mr.
Chairman?

I have had vacillating feelings on public hearings, and I
think what I have come down on is this. I think we should go
ahead and issue a preliminary report without public hearings.
I think we should put the matter of public peer eee in abeyance |
until we get.into'the Chile thing and some of the other areas
of so-called assassinations that may not be Presidential
assassinations per se and leave the Committee option that we
may well want to elsct to go into what happened in Chile
publicly and bring up that assassination if that is what we
determined.

I have trouble determining at this point in time whether

wa should have public hearings, and I think we ought to keep

| that option open as we go along.

The Chairman. I have no argument with the Senator on thet

score.

Senator Schweiker. I know. As I say, it reconciles with

your views and it protects the rights of those who say they

| want public hearings.

The Chairman. I have no argument with that.

TOP SECRET



WARO a PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, O.€, 20003

senator baker has another matter.

Senator Baker. It won't take but a brief moment.

I think I owe the Committee 2: a report. on the statement
that I made to the Press a few moments ago. I did not intend
to make a statement, but that it becomes impossible to avoid
when you step outside in these circumstances.

The Chairman. It is a good thing for you that Senator
Morgan is not present.

Senator Baker. As some of you may know, the news last
night and again this morning carried a story to the effect that!
a Colonel, a retired Colonel in the Air Force by thé name of
Fletcher Prowdy, has alleged by Alexander nutterfield was an
associate or an employee or a plant of somathing of the sort of
the CIA when he was at the White House.

I was asked if I had any comment on that. I was asked if

I was surprised by that, and my reply was I had heard that

story befora: I had never commented on it because I had no
proof of it. And it's really so. As you know, in this town
if you don't have confirmation of it you get into deep
trouble.

Second, that I’think it is worthy of looking into, and I
said I thought the Prowdy statement added a new dimansion to
the rumors and I thought that it did warrant further investiga-|
tion, that I would recommend that to this Committee at the

appropriate time.

TOP SECRET



would ask the Committee for an investigation of this charge,
and Bill Miller tells me we hava already received from the
Agency a preliminary report that is not satisfactory. We are
pursuing it and getting further information.

Senator Schweiker?

Senator Schweiker. I have a brief matter I ‘would: Fike to

the Committee's advice on.

Could:‘we':go ‘off:'the record a minute?

The Chairman. Yes.

(Discussion off the-record.)

Senator Mart of Colorado. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I have
an item of business also.

When I was in Burope last week and pursuant to the
direction of the Chairman and staff I tried to contact our

friend QUWIN to try to. wrap up that lihk of the chain with, I

must say, the complete cooperation of the CIA and Mr. Colby,

who in fact sent a person over there to help uncover this
individual. We know who he is and where he is.

The CIA American contact talked to him, largely for the

| reason that he feels extrema loyalty still to the Agency and to

one or two particular people that ha worked with and through
He opted not to meet with me or anybody else. The feeling is,
both on my part and Mr. Colby's, that if we got his contact in

that chain to get in touch with him directly that he would talk

TOP SECRET



10 Fist Street, $.€., Wasnington, O.C. 20003

tha, Committee wh
important enough’ for us’ to"pursue and dt.would-probably involve
a@ couple of people going back over.
Senator Baker. What is your recommendation?

Senator Hart of Colorado. . My own feeling, based almost

| purely on the principle that no stone ‘should be left unturned

is that we should do it.

There area soma unanswered questions. He was here in the
states in '63, he was not confined to one operation and we
don't know what he was doing.

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, I would recommend that we
commission Senator Hart to do that for us. ‘

Senator Hart of Colorado. It would take the cooperation
of one of the witnesses we've had here before to do it. °

The Chairman. What is your racommendation, Senator
Hart, I'm sorry?

Senator Hart of Colorado. That we should do it, that we

should get’ the cooperation of Mr. O'Donnell.

The Chairman. That we should do what?

Senator Baker. Interview QJWIN in Europe.

Senator Mathias. Which means somebody has to do it and
take O'Donnell with him.

Senator Baker. Take Mathias and Hart.

The Chairman, It is a very sensitive matter, if his

cover -- well, one thing this Committee must worry about --

TOP SECRET



oe

Prone (Aras 202) 544-6600.

a
Senator’ Schweiker. Wha

it, Gary?

Senator Hart.of Colorado.: What his orders were, what his
4 scope of authority was, what he was doing over and above -- weit,
5 || what he was doing in the Congo, what he was doing over and |
6 || above his Congo operations, why he was in Florida in 1963. i
7 The Chairman. Well, Gary, when you told me this, you

8 || told me that this man had said to the CIA go between who was |
1
{

13 || appointment we were trying to arrange then, and that was purely

9 trying to arrange this interview that first of all he preferred
10 || not to be questioned, and secondly, if he were questioned, he |
i '
11 |} would lie. '
z le Senator Hart of Colorado. That was on the basis of the:
° \ |
:
:
5

14 || because of his loyalties to the Agency. The case was not
15 || presented well to him. What I am saying is if we took back his

16 || contact for whom he feels loyalty and the fellow should talk,

76000O305 47

17 || I think the feeling of the person who had made the original

18 ; contact is that he would talk. i
g 9 : It was not presented to him in the way that the Agency
3 20 wanted him to do it.
i 21 | The Chairman, How valuable do you think this information
i 22 | is to the Committee? I'll tell you my concern. My concern is
i 2 i the one thing I have feared more than anything else, .in this i
@ i ll investigation is that we take some action that allows them to

24 |
25 ~ that we have blown the cover of some valuable agent abroad,

TOP SECRET


5

a
i.
@
c
c
c
co

WARD & PAUL

410 Fiest Steet, S.€., Wasmington, O.C. 20003

upon the breach and say, we told you so.

pare ; ee
and this is what they feared all along, ‘and the whole intelli-
gence apparatus would be gravely weakened and the men in the
field would be jeopardized by investigation of this kind.

We take that chance with this kind of -- and what do we

learn from it? Is it worth that chance?

Senator Hart of Colorado. Well, that question could be

!
|
asked of any witness that we have in here. Number two, the CIA,

Mr. Colby and the Chief of Station ni EeSaeeeeea have no doubts
|

that this can be carried out without any security breach what- |

soever. Now that's the CIA. He has not worked for: them in

ten years.

The Chairman. And the CIA would be the first to jump

Sanator Hart of Colorado. Well, I leave it to the

Committee. I can't tell you what we're going to find out, it

| may be zero.

Senator Mathias. ‘The Station Chief does not raise that as,
one of the dangers. :

Senator Bakex. Yes, thay did.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Nor does Colby.

Mr. Wides. Mr. Chairman, excuse me. The paper that

| suggests the possibility that Mr. Win might have been in the

| United States in 1963 is a paper involving the activity records |
| i

of William Harvey who will be here this afternoon and that may |

be that you can get more testimony under oath from him that willl
|

TOP SECRET



eee
ae

Phone (Ares 202)

10 First Street, S.€., Wasnington, D.C. 20003

ened some light as to whether he was just using QJWIN as @ cover|
which is what he tola me, the designation for billing, or
whether he's willing to give out some more testimony.

The Chairman. Well, lst us get that additional informa-
tion --

Senator Baker. One further point, Mr. Chairman, that might,

be of interest if my memory is correct, and I beliave it is

correct, is that the major commercial cover for the Agency in

as run by (thectiuk

-l
Senator Hart of Colorado. ‘Frank, he's not worked for the

| Agency in ten years. He's not an active agent.

The Chairman. Suppose that he were to tell us something
that is of importance, then how do we cross-examine him? Then
we have to bring him here for eross-examination, then we have
blown his cover. |

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, may I say one other thing?

I meant to say it, and I frankly forgot, just so my colleagues
know what I'm about and not that I'm doing it behind their
back.

I got a call last night from one of the editors of varper's

magazine in Europe relaying to me that Bernard Barker wanted to

/

ee

talk to me, and he thinks about the Butterfield situation, and |
i

'

I intended to call him, but I wanted you to know that.
Tha Chairman, That's fine.

Let's defer decision right now, on that decision, Senator

TOP SECRET



his testimony this

TOP SECRET

&
-§
°
a
&
os
x
a
F
eo
i
3
=
oe
ad
°
ae
7
a
a
:
g

morning.

aves auvm



3
é
ry
&
Fy

Jeet, S.E., Wasnington, 0.C. 20003

(imereupon, at 12:00 noon the witness ‘re-entered the
hearing room.)

The Chairman. All right.

You understand that the oath still applies to this part
of the testimony?

Mr. Schwarz.will renew the questioning.

‘Mr. Schwarz. Mr. Bundy, I want to call your attention now
to 1963, the Missile Crisis is over. Was there another reassess)
ment of Cuban policy in the winter and spring of '63?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, there was.

Mr. Schwarz. Again, did that reassessment of Cuban policy

| involve a lot of reassessment of a lot of options?

Mr. Bundy. That is my refreshed recollection.

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

We've shown you a lot-of documents, mostly by you in that
period, but some to you as well, and was one of the options the
consideration of the possibility that Mr. Castro might defect

or might be communicated to in a way that would bring him aroun

more closely to the United States?

Mr. Bundy. The question of opening communications with
Fidel Castro arises in 1963, I think at more than one time,

and without having my attention drawn to specific documents, I

| wouldn't be able to spell that out very much.

Mr. Schwarz. But you agree that it is in there, and it

is in there?

TOP SECRET



3
é
4
Py
&
<
5

S.£., Washington, 0.¢. 20003

Mr. Bundy.

Mr. Schwarz. Now did you also consider, in the spring of
1963, as you had in the fall of 1961, what would happen if
Castro died or were killed?

Mr. Bundy. What we did, we certainly posed the question,
the precise form is not clear to me, but what-I"now know from the
documents you have shown me, is we posed to the Director of the
Office of National Estimates, a Dr. Sherman Kent -~

Mr. Schwarz. And what did Dr. Sherman Kent say in response
to that inquiry?

Mr. Bundy. Well, I would have to look at his response.

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

I would like to then mark a string of documents so you
can have that in front of you.

All right, would you mark as item 6, Bundy item 6, the

Bundy memorandum to the President dated January 4, 1963, which
appears at Bundy Tab K.
(The document referred to
was marked Bundy Exhibit

No. 6 for identification.)

TOP SECRET



“Bundy, and if Mr.

Kelley could put dt-in ou then talk about

As Bundy Exhibit 6-A, the memorandum for the record,
Meeting on Cuba, 3 April \'63, between the President, the Attorney
General, yourself and five or six other people.

Mr. Bundy. Right.

(The document referred to

was marked as Bundy Exhibit

No. 6-A for identification.

wan 8 PAUL

3
6
z

40 Fi

TOP SECRET



April 11, 1
(The document referred to
was marked Bundy Exhibit

No. 6-B for identification.)

4

BR.
=
C..
md
@ :
isueeer
at
°}
ee
nN

t, S.£., Washington, 0.€. 20003

TOP SECRET



dated April 11, 1963 from Mr! Gordén’Chase to yourself, headed
Cuban.'Policy.
(The-document raferred
to was marked Bundy? —
Exhibit 6-c for

identification.)

a
EY
a
&

TOP SECRET



(The document referred
to was marked Bundy
Exhibit 6-D for

identification.)

oO
rR
:
CQ
tm 3
é
@ :
:
FS
c=
(ay
as
Nw

“a0 Fir Street. S.£., Washington, .C. 20009

TOP SECRET



mone (Ares 202) 544-6000.

waRD 8 PAUL

ry
z

ay

7 :
summary ‘Record of NSC

standing Group Meeting, April 23, 1963.

(the document referred

to was

marked Bundy

Exhibit 6-E for

identification.)

TOP SECRET



WARD & PAUL

g
é
3
3
i

Mr. schwarz. As’ Bundy a: memorandum for re Bundy,
Subject, Cuba Policy, gated apell 23, 1963.
{The document referred
to was marked Bundy
_Bxhibit 6-F for

identification.)

TOP SECRET



-
3

410 Fist

being dated April 29th and signed by you.
: (The document referred
to was marked Bundy
Exhibit 6-G for

identification.)

TOP SECRET



‘Phone (Ares 202) 544-6000

(The document referred
to was marked Bundy
Exhibit! 6-H. for

identification.)

1. 5:€., Wasninaton, 0.€: 20003

TOP SECRET



Ty the Central -
Intelligence Agency, Office of. ational Estinates, May 13th,
1963, draft memorandum; Subject” Developments in Cuba and
Possible U.S. Actions in:the Event of Castro's Death.
i lo (the document referred
nto ‘was marked as Bundy
Exhibit 6-1 for

identification.)

8
3
3
i

TOP SECRET



4810 Furst Siveet, SE, Washington, 0.C. 20003

wr. schwarz. Now, have you had a chance to read then
again, Mr. Bundy? :

Mr. Bundy. Yes.

Mr, Schwarz. In summary, Mx. Bundy, is it 4 fair charac-
terization of these papers that you were, iandithé Standing.
Group was, examining the question of what the situation would
be if Castro were to die?

Mr. Bundy. That is one of the things we were examining,
certainly.

Mr. Schwarz. That was .a- gamut’ of matters "Ir tried to:
pose at tha beginning of this line of questioning?

Bundy. Yes.

Schwarz. That was one of the things you were consider4

Bundy. Right.
Schwarz. This was a period of time, as the fall of

1961 may also have been, when people asked about or talked

about assassinations as a means of causing Mr. Castro's death.

|
|
i
|

Mr. Bundy. I am not aware of much conversaticn on that
subject in the spring of '63, so I would have to take your :
word on that. i

nr. Schwarz. I am asking you, I have no word on that,

Me. Bundy. No, I don't think there was much discussion in|

the spring of '63 on that subject.

Mr. Schwarz. Well, let's see if we can agree on some

TOP SECRET



3
ry
&
<
Ey

‘aio Firs Street, 5.€., Washington, O.C. 20003

18

19

ce

i
i
i
i
il

204
|

\
224

Bey

24

{i
\

|
|

things first.
can we further agree that the ultimate conclusion was that
castro's death would not be desirable for the United States?
Mr. Bundy, The recommendation, or the assessment, which
comes back from the Office of National Fatinates, makes it
clear that the odds would be that, upon Castro's death, his

prother Raul or some other figure in the regime would, with

| soviet backing and help take over control.

Then it goes on to say that there might be divisions and
splits, but that it was unlikely that anti-Comminist forces

would be able to take over without extensive U.S. help and

| probably U.S. military intervention.

Me. Schwarz. All right.
Now, I would like to avoid having to go through every
single document.
Mr. Bundy. So would I.

Mr. Schwarz. And see i£ I could get you to agree with

| this statement. You do agree that you were looking at a

situation that would exist as if Caete were Adame

Mr. Bundy. That is one of the things we were “ooking at.

Mr. Schwarz. and in connection with that, was his being
killed by assassination one of the ways which you understood
he might be killed?

Mr. Bundy. I don't have any recollection of that point,

of it being on our minds.

TOP SECRET



pone (Area 202) 544-6000,

wARO 8 PAUL

1, $.6., Washington, 0.6. 70003

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

Then why were you looking at the question. 6fshis being
killed? Was there something known?

Mr. Bundy. I really don't have any independent of it.
My sense of events in 1963 is that the internal pressure from
within the Administration to "do something about Cuba" was
very much lower. There wasr however, external pressure. There
was political pressure in the United States, critics of the

Administration were making speeches about how not enough was

being done and we must get rid of the Castro regime, and as I
think I may have said earlier, and 1 would like to say now,

I think that one reason for ¥ getting an Ceelelie of this kind

—

|, was to get it on xecord from the point of view of those who

at not aaa we should be. fussing with questions of assassina~

tion or anythi like ite that, it was not a& sound policy,

leaving aside its moral meaning and wider political meaning

enemies agate a '
|

from the point of view of the narrow objectives we had in Cuba.)

Mr. Schwarz. Who was taking the position. that~ assassina-
tion could be --

Mr. Bundy. TI have no recollection on that.

Mr. Schwarz. But someone was?

tr. Bundy. TI have no recollection on that.

Mr. Schwarz. You have no recollection of any position
being taken pro OF con?

Mr. Bundy. I have no recollection of any specific

TOP SECRET



pnone (Ares 202) 544-6000

‘a0 Fiest Street, S.£., Wasninaton, O.C. 20003,

46 ; :
conversation or position hat. “triggered this particular
inquiry. :

The Chairman. Welly isn't it perfectly plausible that
this inquiry sought to examine what the situation would be in
the event of Castro's death by whatever means 4t might occur?

Does it necessarily follow that because the Administration |
was making such a plausible inquiry against such a contingency |

that might arise at any time that therefore it was within the

mina of the Administration to kill Castro? I don't see the

connection. |
oo |
Mc. Bundy. Well, “you make my point, Mr. Chairman. That'§
|
just my point. H
i
i
Me. Schwarz. Now in connection with that, would you look
at your own Agenda forthe April 19th meeting, 6-G?
Under item 1 -- you distinguish between item 1 and item

2. Item 1 is the possible use of contingencies for the

achievement of wider political objectives; and item 2 is programs

|
that might be initiated by the United States government. i
t

1 call your attention to the fact that the reference to
the possible death of Castro is one of the items under item
1 and not under item 2.

Mr. Bundy. That is correct.

Mr. Schwarz. And do you regard that as relevant to the

1
exchange you had with the Chairman just now?

Mr. Bundy. It seems to me it bears out the Chairman's

TOP SECRET



410 First Street, S-€., Washington, ©.C. 20003

point, that you have a nutber of possible things that might
happen, that you would then have something to do something
abouty or to act in the light of. “The other are the things
that you might do without waiting for soma contingency to

arise.

Mr. Schwarz. Now the aay remaining question I have on
this group of documents is, how was it that the subject of the
death of Castro -- do you investigate the possibilities of the
death of foreign leaders as a regular matter?

Mr. Bundy. Well, the question ,) *After:.Stalin,; What?” was
the staple of discussions in the 1940's, everywhere, academies
and I would assume inside the United States government; the
question after DeGaulle was a question about Western European

policy for a great many years. And one could pick smaller

question coming up, in a situation in which a particular

|
figures, more and less controversial, and have the same kind of |
|
|

individual - .. is as dominant a figure in a set of events which}
:
it had the two, quite contrasting but heavy consequences of the |

| Bay of Pigs and the Missile Crisis, it doesn't seem to me to
| be an irrational question to ask, without any relation as to
| whether the United States itself would have any active advisory

role or any role whatever in having that event come to pass.

Mr. Schwarz, All right.
Would you mark as Exhibit 7 the September 20 document --

which is the page -~ which states the assassination of Castro

TOP SECRET



ferred

to was marked Bundy

identification.)

“(the document re
Exhibit No. 7 for

=
al
os
Vv
al
w
i-5
°
—

a
a

co00g °a “vorburusens "3S



ston. .C. 20003

‘ano rest Street, SHE. Washi"

12

13

14

15

16

Me. schwarz. Mr. ‘Relley: take over the ques~
tioning of Me. Bundyr with the permission of the chaizman, on
that particular series of documents r which is at the heading,
September 20th +63 on the chronology:

Mr. Kelley: Yes

tet me show Mr. Bundy the documents- :

we. schwarz, Welly firstr wil you tell us where the
documents are, pecause rt couldn't find them under the heading
you gave use

Mr. Kelley- Yes.

| In Bundy Book 2 there is at gab A the memorandum dated
1 gury 25th, 1963 from nr. George Denney to NT. crimmins,

\ entitled “Cubar possible courses of Action-

| At Tab B of Bundy Book 2 ig a memorandum dated September

| 20th, 1963, from Gordon chase to Mr. Bundy, and this memorandum |

summarizes the Denney memorandum of July 25th.

Mr. Bundy dia you review these documents with members of

, || the staff earlier this week?

we. Bundy. Yes, T aid.

wie, Kelley. Do you Rave any independent recollection of
i
| these documents?

N

| Mc. Bundy- Well, as read a document of this kina, which
4 i comes to me from a member of my own staff, 1 am very often

\
| reminded and 7 am im this case, that this is a document which

|

|

I did review and that it reflects nis arguments as I then heard

TOP SECRET



Prone (Ares 202) 544-6600,

Street, 5.€ DWastungton, B.C. 20003

Mr. Kelley. Who was Mr. Gordon Chase?

Mc. Bundy. Well, he was an assistant of mine at the time
with special responsibilities for Cuban affairs, and perhaps
more widely in Latin America. He was at that time a foreign
service officer secunded to the White House.

‘Mr. Kelley. Did he have any responsibility for covert
actions? :

Mr. Bundy. No.1

Mr. Kelley. Did he provide staff assistance to you with
respect to the Special Group or the Special Group (Augmented)?

Me. Bundy. Well, he may have done in some exceptional
case when I needed his opinion on a matter, but in ordinary
cases he would not have been party to Special Group work

Mr. Kelley. What kind of things did he do with the
special responsibility for Cuba? What did that‘ involve?

Mr. Bundy. He would be keeping in touch with the Cuban
ask Force, which by this time was in the Department of State
the MONGOOSE operation having been disbanded. fe would have
been responsible for keeping me alert to matters that were
proceeding in that Task Force that might have an implication for
the White House.

Mr. Kellay. Who was the head of the Cuban Task Force?

Mr. Bundy. Well I don't want to get this wrong, but T

think by this time it was Mr. Crimmins.

TOP SECRET



A

te

@
aa
ce.
c

Jon, B.¢. 20003

ano Fins streets SE 8

Mr. Kelley. Mr- crimmins was ‘in the state Department and
he was @ foreign service officer?

Mr. Bundy. That is right.

Mr. Kelley. The Cuban qask Force, what was that?

Mr. Bundy. Well, it was the successor to the MONGOOSE.
group, put much less oriented toward secret operations than
MONGOOSE, and the review of secret operations then came pack
under the complete contro? of the special Group, by nowy Z
think, called the 303 Committee, which was 3 jineal successor
of 5412.

Mr. Kelley. I call your attention now to Mr. Denney'S
memorandum, which is at Tab A in Book 2, and it is true, is
4t not that the memorandum is to Mr. Crimmins?

Mr. Bundy. Right.

Senator Tower. Po you nave any independent recollection
of this memorandum?

Me. Bundy+- I have nO nowledge that I ever sav it, and I

iy
did not find it familiar when 1 looked at it the other daay-

mr. Kelley. It is truer is it not, that Mr- Chase's memo

| to you summarizes this much longer memorandum by Mr- Denney?

ne. Bundy. Ts that what it is?

Mr. Schwarz. Does it do that, Mr. Kelley, because Chase

| memorandum starts py saying, here is a summary of paul Sakwa's

Mr. Kelley- 1 think that is an error in Mr. Chase's MeMOor §

pecause it is clear that what is being summarized here is Mr.

TOP SECRET



(Area 202) 544-6000:

Pont

410 First Street, 5.€,, viswninaton, 0.6. 20003

Denney's memorandum.
Mr. Bundy. Let me suggest that:you. focus ‘on:Mr.: Chase's

memorandums :with respect’ ta my: recollectioniand responsibility,

| that is: iclearly ‘tha: operative’ document.

Mr. Kelley. With respect to Mr. Chase's memorandum, in

his summary of the rationale of proposals,’ he. states, as second,,

"the present importance of Castro as a nationalist symbol makes
him the obvious operational target: assassination ie excluded
to avoid Castro's martyrdom."

Do you have any recollection of why he would exclude

assassination? Does that imply to you, or do you recollect,
whether Castro's assassination was being considerad .and, here

is a staff paper excluding it, because. someone asked them to

| consider it?

Mr. Bundy. No, I think it's a simple statement of what
I would regard as a rationale assessment of the situation by
whoever the original author was, and certainly by the staff
man with respect to a subject that emarges directly from the
notion that he is an operational target, whatever that means
and goes on to say, but we don't mean assassination, because
it would make him a martyr, what other reasons - against: that
there may be. It doesn't seem to me that you can read the
statement that assassination is excluded as an inference that
somebody else is including it.

Mr. Kelley. That's all

TOP SECRET



3
«
¢
‘
5

10 Fiest Street, 5.€., Wemington, D.C. 20003

Prone (Area 202) 544-6000.

Mr. Schwarz. In’ an! event, Mr. Bundy, the document says
it is excluded. “ : ;

Mr. Kelley. That's right.

Mr. Schwarz. ‘Now-at that period of time in the fall of
1963, were you aware that through the offices of Ambassador
Atwood, of Mr. Atwood, as he may ihave then been called, and
through the offices of a French journalist called Jean Daniel,
another effort was being made to establish contact with Mr.
castro?

Mr. Bundy. I remember the Atwood effort, as T recollect.
that he came to see me about it. I don't recollect specifically
Jean Daniel, although it strikes a chord as you mention it.

‘Mr, Schwarz. What the purpose, very briefly, of Mr.
Atwood's effort?

Me. Bundy. Well, as I understood it, he had been approached

by someone he knew from Cuba and had been given to understand

that there was interest in, Castro had an interest in, opening |

gommunication, and he was exploring with us whether he could be

encouraged to undertake such an explanation. |
Mc, Schwarz. And .did you encourage hin?
Mr. Bundy. The exact form of our message to him, or our j
if you want to call it, the instruction to him, the President's !
decision, I can no longer recollect, but my impression is that i

we were interested, and that we did want him to explore it without

engaging the president any more than he could help.

TOP SECRET



3
Py
&
<
Fa

410 Fiest Street, S.€., Wasningten, 0.C. 20003

vr. Schwarz. {But was the President in fact informed and
in fact approved the actions taken?

Mr. Bundy. That is my understanding.

Mr. Schwarz. Is it your understanding or your recollection?

Me. Bundy. Zt is my recollection, but 4t is a recollection
that is refreshed by what I have learned and hearing more about
it in the last few days.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, were you told, in the fall of 1963,
that assassination devices had been requested by a Cuban for
the purpose of assassinating Mr. Castro, and that assassination |
devices were offered to the Cuban in the fall of 1963?

Mr. Bundy. No.

Me. Schwarz. Now again, here, calling for a matter of
opinion, as a matter of opinion, do you believe that at the
same time, at a possible rapprochement with Mr. Castro was hein
pursued, the President would have authorized or permitted the

passage of assassination devices intended for their use on

Mr. Castro?

Mr. Bundy. Absolutely not.
Mr. Schwarz. I have nothing further on Castro.
The Chairman. Is there more?

Schwarz. Well, on Trujillo and Diem, with respect to

smothers. Well, if you're going on to something else, j

there are a couple of things.

TOP SECRET



prone (Aces 202) 544°61

g
v
3
3

‘Going back to an

is in the Bundy materials,

previously ina Committee hearing, & memorandum which will be

identified as a Memorandum for the Record, dated 16:October

1962, a memorandum signed by Mr. Richard Helms.
(The document referred
to was marked Bundy
Exhibit No. 8 for

identification.)

TOP SECRET



Prone (Ares 202) 544-6000

d
i
ry
5

‘a10 Fist Street, S.€., Wasnington, O.C. 20003

Mr. Smothers. Mrs bundy, 1 am going to read through this
memorandum and ask you a couple of questions. about that. It's
a memorandum from Helms for the record on MONGOOSE.

Reading. from this memorandum, Mr. Bundy, reading from
paragraph 2: "The Attorney General" -- well, let me read the
entire paragraph.

“phe Attorney General opened the meeting" -- we're talking |

about a MONGOOSE meeting’ --"by expressing the general dissatis~

|
faction of the President," --"'dissatisfaction of the President I
in quotes -- “with Operation MONGOOSE."

Mr. Bundy. What date are we at? The date?

Mr. Smothers. The date of the memorandum is 16 October
1962.

"He pointed out that the Operation had been underway for 2

year, that the results were discouraging, that there had been

no acts of sabotage, and that even the one which had been

attempted had failed twice. He indicated that there had been

i}
| noticeable improvement during the year in the collection of

1 intelligence, but that other actions had failed tovinfluence
significantly the course of events in Cuba- He spoke of the
weekly meetings of top officials on this problem, and again

noted the small accomplishments, despite the fact that Secre~

| taries Rusk and McNamara, General Taylor, McGeorge Bundy and he
i

IL
| personally had all been charged by the President with “finding

\

a solution. He traced the history of General Lansdale's personal

TOP SECRET



group noted.

appointment by the president a year ago.

"~he Attorney General then stated that in view of this
lack of progress, he was going to give Operation MONGOOSE more |
personal attention. In order to do this, he would hold a meetin
every morning at 0930 with the MONGOOSE operational representa-
tives from the various agencies (Lansdale, Harvey, Hurwich, |
Ryan and General“Johnson)." H
Now, the bast of our information, Mr. Bundy, is that these |

meetings were in fact held on a daily basis as indicated, and

that they did involve Lansdale and these members of the working |

Were you aware of such meetings?

Mr. Bundy. I have no independent recollection of them, but
that does not sound implausible to me at all.

Mr. Smothers. It doesn't sound implausible to me that the

Attorney General Lansdale and members of the working group to

1
|
i

| develop MONGOOSE activities with him?

Mr. Bundy. To report to him how they were getting on, and/

to see if he couldn't, by listening to those reports and keeping

a lively -- keeping his lively concern in their consciousness
move the thing more rapidly.

Mr. Smothers. This is your interpretation of :giving more

| personal attention to it?

Mr. Bundy. Exactly.

Mr. Smothers. You say you had. no knowledge of these in

TOP SECRET



Street, S.€., Washington, O.€. 20003

1962?

Mr. Bundy. I didn't say that. I said I had no independent
recollection of them.

Mr. Smothers. They did not come to your attention at that
point?

Mr. Bundy. I didn't say say that. I don't know that they
did, but I don't know that they didntt.

Mr. Smothers. But your recollection at this point is that

not come to your attention?

Mr. Bundy. That is not my recollection: I don't recall
that one way or the other.

Mr. Smothers. Okay.

Let me ask you then about your knowledge of the Lansdale
situation.

Do you know General Lansdale?

Mr. Bundy. Yes.

Mr. Smothers. Po you know his reputation for truth and

honesty?

Mr. Bundy, I don't think I have any -- his reputation for !

truth and honesty, if you ask me the question as one asks it
about, you know, all kinds of people, I have no reason to
question it. I have doubts about some of the things I have

seen attributed to him in recent weeks.

Mr. Smothers. Well, let me put it this way. Would you

| believe General Lansdale under oath?

TOP SECRET



410 Fiest Street, S.E.. Wasnington, ©.C. 20003

Me. Bundy. “Te would depend’ on “what he said.

Mr. Smothers. It would depend upon what he said.

Is your experience that General Lansdale is trustworthy
only on a selective basis?

Mr. Bundy. You are asking me questions about matters
essentially in which his testimony, as I have seen it reported.

Mr, Smothers. wo, I am not asking you about his testimony
tam asking you if you would believe him under oath, based on
your knowladge.

Mr. Bundy. It would depend upon what he said, and if it °
was a matter on which I had my own knowledge.

Mr. Smothers. Without regard to matters that General
Jansdale has testified to before this Committee, based on your
knowledga of him, your working relationship with him, your
knowledge of what other people know of General Lansdale, his
reputation in the community, if you will, would you believe him
under oath?

Mr. Bundy. I would currently have to say that I could no:
dive you a definite affirmative answer to that question.

Mr. Smothers. That's fine.

Now, let's go back to the period of General Lansdale's
appointment.

General Lansdale was appointed as the coordinator of the
Special Group, the Chief of Operations.

After General Taylor's efforts had been under effort for

"TOP SECRET

+
|

i
i
!
i
i
|
|



Prone (Area 202) 544-6

3
ry
&
5

410 Fest Street, S.E., Washington, B.C. 20003,

I believe, in July after he completes his Bay of Pigs examina-
tion, General Lansdale is appéinted by the President at the end
of November.

Do you have any present recollection of the circumstances
surrounding that appointment?

Mr. Bundy. None that goes beyond what I discussed earlier

Mr. Smothers. To the bast of your knowledge or recollectio:
did the appointment of this Chief of Staff or Chief of Operation,
reflect any lack of confidence in General Taylor on the part of |
either the Attorney General or the President?

Mr. Bundy. No, the opposite. General Taylor had heavy
responsibilities in his general responsibility as military
representative of the President. He was made Chairman of the

Committee to keep oversight on this. It was inappropriate

entirely in terms of his rank and his other duties that he

should be the day to day action officer.
Mr. Smothers. Are you familiar with the degree of General |
Taylor's .involvement with the development of the Special
Group. (Augmented) agendas? Was this done by General Taylor?
Was it really General Lansdale's responsibility?
Mr. Bundy. I don't have any knowledge of the details of
the operations of the staff. It was clear to me, and I think

to everyone else, that the man in charge of that operation, of

that Committee, was General Taylor.

TOP SECRET



410 First Street, S.€., Washington, .C. 20003

Mr. smothers. Okay...

Just one final series of questions.

If we might, Mr. Bundy, go back to our conversations
regarding your request to sea documents prior to your testimony
before the Rockefeller Commission, when you talked to Mr:
Kissinger, precisely what did you request of him?

Mr. Bundy. I said to him -~ and again I cannot be precise --
and I thought that there were going to be questions with respect!

to which it would be much easier for me to give helpful and nore
accurate answers if T could have access to appropriate documents
since I have taken no documents of that character, no official i
documents of that character, from the White House. And he said;
he entirely agreed and he made the appropriate arrangements. |

Mr. Smothers. Did you ask for a timeframe for these

documents?

i
I
|

Mr. Bundy. I don't recall that I did, but when I came to
look more closely at what I needed to see, as I told you
earlier, it related specifically to the period around August
1962.

Mr. Smothers. Did the White House make the selection of

documents for you?

Mr. Bundy. No. The White House handed me a file of

| documents which covered the period.

Mr. Smothers. They handed you a file of documents covering

roughly the August 1962 period?

TOP SECRET



none (Ares 202) 544-6000

3
ra
<
z

410 Fit si

Mr.sBundy. That's right.

Mr. Smothers. Had you made a request for documents
covering this August '62 timeframe?

Mr. Bundy. I must have told him the rough period with
which I am concerned. Again, I don't understand the drift of

your question.

Mr. Smothers. Well, tha drift of my question is, if indeed
you selected the August 1962 documents, why did you select |
that? |

Mx. Bundy. Because Counsel to the Rockefeller Commission
had directed my attention to the period.

Mr. Smothers. To August 1962?

Mr. Bundy. Yes.

Mx. Smothers. In the file that centered roughly on this
point in this timeframe, included NSA memo 181, was the file
put together by the White House pursuant to this guidance?

Mr. Bundy. The file that came into my hands, whether
they put it together or whether it was a file drawn off the

shelf, I can't tell you. You'll have to ask them.

Mr. Smothers. Did it appear to you to be an off-the-shelf

| file?

Mr. Bundy. I don't know what it was.
The Chairman. What is the object of this series of
questions, Curtis?

Mr, Smothers. Well, I am trying to determine, Mr. Chairman,

TOP SECRET



a

249

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000.

5
Py
&
‘
5

$10 First

what Me. Kissinger was requested to do and what ‘actually
happened.

The Chairman. Don't we have that now in the record?
It just seems to me like we're going over the same series of

questions.

Mr. Smothers. Well, since we don't know what was in the

file --
Mr. Bundy. Well, I thought I said-the file waa a file of |
National Security Action Memoranda, a file which you already
have here.
Mx. Smothers. Relating to August, 1962?
Mr. Bundy. uh-huh.
Mr. Smothers. That's all I have, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Schwarz. On the Trujillo matter --
Mr. Bundy. Sure.
Mr. Schwarz. You know Mz. Trujillo was killed. Did you
know or do you know that the Persons who killed him had
obtained some weapons from the United States?
Mr. Bundy. I did not know, and do not now know, of my
own knowledge that that was the case.
I did know, or at least I believe I must have been on
notice because of documents again that you have shown me, that
weapons by a decision of tha Special Group in early January
had been or were being passed to Dominican dissidents.
Mr. Schwarz. Were you involved in the sending of a telegrdn

{
TOP SECRET



Prone (Area 202) 544-6000

ry
5

set, §.€., Wasminaton, B.C, 20003

to the Domincan Republic, either two or three days prior to the
actual assassination of Mr. Trujillo?

Mr. Bundy. I have no recollection of it, and when I saw
those telegrams in discussions with your staff, they stirred no
recollection on my part,

Mr. Schwarz. Is it fair to state that Mr. Richard Goodwin |
is the best witness on those subjects from the White House for
that period of time?

Mr. Bundy. It appears that way to me, although that
appears more from the fact that ‘important documents seem to
have been addressed to him than because of my own recollection
that he was interested in the matters and because of my phone
conversation with him, he showed a considerable familiarity
with events in the Domincan Republic, political events during
that spring.

Mr. Schwarz. Well, you got a memo from Mr. Bissell in
February, 17th February '61. It is Tab R of the Trujillo
Book 1 of 2, in which you were informed that the dissidents
had been told by the United States that it was prepared to
provide them with a limited supply of arms and equipment

When you got such information, did it trigger in your mind
anything to the effect of, ‘s be concerned .about how they're
going to use those weapons, or did you just accept the informa-
tion and do nothing about it?

Mr. Bundy. It is clear that the information was sent to

TOP SECRET



3
9
e
«
3

and it was clear; in that, sense, that I had become responsi-

ble for knowing what was in the document, but I have to say that
as I reread it I have no recollection that I ever, in fact, did
read it at the time. Whether that was because of the flow, the
very heavy flow of other documents or because I passed it to
someone else or because I just simply didn't get to it, I cannot)
tell you, but I have no recollection‘that I saw it.

Mr. Schwarz. You did make a request for a briefing paper?

Mr. Bundy. It must have been done.and it was either done
in my name or I did it.

Mr. Schwarz. So you're not capable -- you don't remember

it. Are you capable of.making a comment on my question, which

| Was having received information that arms had been supplied --

Mr. Bundy. Having that information on my desk, anyway.

Mr. Schwarz. Okay. i
In the light of hindsight, should persons in your position |

when they receive such information inquire into the purpose for |

| which the arms are to be used?

Mr. Bundy. Yes, I would -- and my own guess on this, and
it's not much butter than that, is that the decision which had i
bean taken only a week befora the new Administration came in,
in the Special Group, was partly reviewed in some fashion, with |
the Special Group as reconstituted after the change in

Administration. So I would have to say that I suppose I knew

| that weapons were being introduced into the Dominican Republic

TOP SECRET



Prone (Area 202) 544-6000"

¢
°
5

410 First Street, 5.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

46

and I would have to add that I did not, or I have no recollectio}
and I think I would recollect it, if I had engaged in a careful

inquiry to find out just what, who, when where and so on did
not do that, and I think -- you ask in hindsight, I..think it

would clearly be important to have that kind of understanding,

bacause as I’ understand the evidence that has now been developed
there was a level of communication and connection with the
plotters in the Dominican Republic which exceeded what political
authority appears to have expected or believed was going on.
Mr. Schwarz. Would you agree with one further point
that it is very difficult for the United States to control
events once it has made a decision to cooperate with dissident.
elements, and in particular once it's made a decision to
cooperate with dissident elements by providing them with arms?
Mr. Bundy. I think that -- one thing, I don't want to
generalize here, but I think -- I would agree with the generali-
zation, let me put it that way, if I could add that in the case |

of the Dominican Republic, I think one has also to recognize

| retrospectively that there was no way to have any communication

with dissidents that would not involve recognition that, if you |
propose to be an effective dissident in that country under that
ruler, you would probably be contemplating fairly violent
action.

Mr. Schwarz. I have nothing further on Trujillo.

One question of Vietnam.

TOP SECRET



3
é
ry
é
5

1, 5.€., Wasnington, 8.¢. 20003

410 Fiat

draftsman under his instruction tof: some of
dds

if sooty

"was killed. It does not appear to

| me from thé record thatthe United States wanted him killed.

Is that fair? ae

Mr. Bundy. That is correct.

Mr. Schwarz.. But the United States did want him deposed
if a scoup could be. successful? Is that correct?

Mr. Bundy. The*United:States,really had two views. Right
up to%theend, the United States hoped, hoped against hope, as
it became more and more difficult to communicate with Diem,
that he would see the, or come to share the kinds of argument,
that were made to him, primarily by Ambassador Lodge, and that
a change in his government and aviowar, much lower, role for
his brother~ and sister-in-law would assist him in recapturing
public confidence. That was always the preferred solution.

As prospects for that became more and more dim, the United
States did come to take the view that there might be no alter—

native to a coup, and it certainly had the view that if there

TOP SECRET



m:
BA

pea
Our,

a
hi

CS i TE ae Ph
vit/incomprehensible’ th



this«morning. Bout
ee rea elea ce
er :

ney:

