# 157-10008-10172

## Page 1

157-10008-10172

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FK Assassination Syste

Identification on

Agency Inform tion

Date:

2/23/201

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10172

RECORD SERIES: LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Info nation

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

WALLACH, PAUL

TO: SHAHEEN, MICHAEL, ESQ.

TITLE: NOVEMBER 18, 1975 DOCUMENT REQUEST

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/18/1975

4

FBI AGENTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION

OSWALD, MARINA

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

NEW ORLEANS

MILTEER

• HOSTY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/30/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

BOX 401-4

v9.1

NW 47129

DocId: 32203680 Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

wieves 24.

12/1/75

15.

12/1/15

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esg.

November 18, 1975

Page Four

12? All materials sent over to the White House relating

to the "CIA's attempts to use former agent Robert

Maheu and his private detective, Sam Glancana and

other hoodlums, relative to fostering a plot to

assassinate Castro," which transfer of materials

was

described by Cartha D. DeLoach in his April 4,

11/28

13! The cable dated March 3, 1967 from Director Hoover to 12/1

the Central Intelligence Agency re:

Pascual Enrique

Roedolo Gongora, and all materials pertaining to or

used in the preparation of said cable.

All reports filed by FBI personnel who were at Parkland 11/24

Hospital in Dallas, Texas at any time on November 22,.

1963.

All memoranda or other materials in FBI Headquarters

1128

or Field Office files pertaining to the New Orleans

Chapter of Fair Play for Cuba Committee, including,

but not limited to, degree of informant coverage.

16.

All reports and other materials pertaining to the

1124

allegation that Lee Harvey

garage adjacent to the FBI'; Dallas Field Office,

is noted in the FBI's response to Item 4 of the Select

Committee's October 31, 197; document request.

17.

All materials pertaining to the arrest of Thomas Vallee

11/25

in Chicago, Illinois on Novimber 2, 1963, and subsequent

FBI investigation to includ: the following:

a.

the report of Special Ayents Lansing P. Logan

and James Pond dated De ember 2,

interview of William Co:ley. [file #CG62-611J,

Chicago,]

b.

the report of Special Ayents Logan and Pond of an

interview of Luke Chris:opher Hester. (file #CG62-

6115, Chicago.]

cc: William 0. Cregar

Sincerely,

Saul Wallel

Paul Wallach

Counsel

AN 47729

DoCId: 32203680 Page 2

---

