157-10011-10014)

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 }

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

SSCIA
157-10011-10014

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO

TITLE :

INDEX CARDS
DATE

PAGES :

: 06/00/75
483

SUBJECTS :

OPERATION MONGOOSE
CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE =

ee TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

V CLASSIFICATION :

VY RESTRICTIONS =

VCURRENT STATUS
VOATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
Box 141, Book 2 of

REFERRE

R a >
09/23/93
tee

: s

» Ar

Ue

3, Index Cards dated June/July 1975

OZ ITF

Date: Qa¢tSte2
Page: ,

HW 50955 DocId:32203762

[R]}--—LTEM IS RESTRICTED

Page 1


@ ahed ZSLEOZZE!PII0d GcEOG MH

a a NG OBJECTION po arene dd
— _ > NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Mh | ue [94

; ‘PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATIES:
JFK a —
Maxwell Taylor,/

27 Sept 62 MOONGOOSE
Diem{

Taylor states that the Speciai Group and the Sencial Group Augmented considered a proposal by
CIA for covert activities designed to harass the Nemocratic REnublic of Vietnam. This had
been prepared in response to a request by the Sec.'s of State arid Defense.

-Taylor added that the Special Group aéked that a more detailed oneration plan be prepared.

- It was agreed that_Defense make certain équipinént and personnel available to CIA in support
of this program. ] i ‘pfekicht=desipned—to—identi fy_the-North-Vietnamese—radar-order-of

=batth 5 —sOnasM fi. outes, was aut orized.This_ 11.1_be_flown=otit
i ed omits ae etranTe on eh

Slepalgon—,—using—the : ped~aircrat s heaGhinesé
Ki Ce" mark ingssrenovedsandzemp: royane—Chincse National Sedocumented_South Vietnam -
CSSeLEhIZENS, EES S

SOURCE: SAT:
BOURCE Maxwell Taylor! ss ———" PGW

Sept 27, 1962."
- _ FILE: on

pare: 6/29/75


€ abed ZeLEOzZE? PII0G SG60S AH

| lie.

CIA HAS NO.OBJECTION TO: Ball
BEA oi DN | | ED
SD
AS SANITIZED  OCUMENT
29 ~3-9¢
we)
CARD 2 of 2
PERSONS /ENTITIES: DATES: — CATEGORIES: top SECREp
HEIMS, Richard | feb 6!

OCCURRENCE: (continued from card 1)
in developing the EXECUTIVE ACTION capability (38).

and while HARVEY was still discussing the
HELMS fully on the seneral

HARVEY used fS:REVISR
pugs staves +na.t
Hometime shortly after this initial meeting,
development of EXECUTIVE ACTION with BISSELL, "he briefed Mr.

conéépt but without mention of the then on-going plan to assassin:

'

STAFF: Baron
DATE: 28.6.75

ate CASTRO." (38) ee


Bo afea zeLcozze:PIo0d cceos BH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: - DATES: ! CATEGORIES:
shia Nee BEES ; PAPE BS
Maheu Trafficante 3 or 4-61 t Castro

Edwards Brow Kauri ge |

Rossellic~”
Giancana : fo
OCCURRENCE: had wes.

Breckinridge testified, Maheu on retainer to CIA ''in the early days" (Tr._99)
('S0's?) and“on one occasion’ he (obtained {a female ‘Commanion for an important —

- foreign Yeader."F (Tr. 99) Edwards contacted Maheu who contacted Roselli
WwhoContactédGiancana who contacted Trafficante, who "travelled to and from

Cuba," (Tr. 100) and who "had a source inside Cuba (who) ...was believed to

have..access to. Castro..and_a_poisonpill. was. developed that. he was to insert coe —-

into Castro's food.'"' (Tr. 101)

SOURCE:

Testimony of Wm. Colby, 5/23/75 John Bayly
: ! DATE:

}——— foro



G a6ed -ZeLe0zce!PII0G =GGG0S AH

_ FERGONS/ENTITIES:
(See list of names below. ) ‘ CASTRO

Ape (2 61 -| sur

CATEGORIES: TOP OLCRET

SADICATE/PHASE IT ——
OMLEDGE OF PHASE II
CARD 1 of 3

OCCURRENCE? “the list of persons with knowledge of PIIASE II of the CASINO ASSASSINATION
OPERATION differs from those who knew of PHASE I. Those with knowledge of PHASE II are:
i. RICHARD HELMS, DD/P 5. J.C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He stated in
®. WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, Task Force W~ our interview with him that he knew that HARVEY
JAMES O'CONNELL, OF: fice of Security was having, meetings with members of the rambling,

le knows that Ha
aneration and. Lvered pill:ss~armsj—and --
equipment in April 1962. He does not
ow of developments after May 1962.)

sR HARVEY'S

s“deputy in -1962
was meeting with
in Reno (sic) in the winter of 1962.)

Ors:

4. SHEFPTELD EDWARDS, D/Security (He WED SHACKLEY, Chief, SMAVE (lie assisted
ows of the fact of the turnover to HARVEY in the deli very of arms and eauinment to
IARVLY, but states he =“ nothing of VARONA in April 1962, but presumabl y did not know
lovelonments thereafter. the identities of the recipients nor (con't. ) -
SOURCE: T.G. REPORT STAPF?

on

DATE: 28.6.75



9 abeq ZSLe0eze:PII0d cceos AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

(Same instruction as card 1.)

OCCURRENCE:

SHACKLEY, cont: the purpose for which the
iaterial was to be used. )

1 ORM TRETSCHEET, TSD GRETSCULER! 39 nar-
ticipation was limited to Ti ishing the
oills to O'CONNELL on 18 April 1962.)

CATEGORIES:

CARD 2 of 3

ll. MACEO, ROSELLI's "Man"  (MACKO
probably knew there was a povernment
connection, but may not have identified
CIA as the agency.)

J. ANTONIO VARONA, the Cuban exile leader

Ge presumably was not aware of government
wwonsorship. )

), VARONA'S SON-IN-LAW (He too was pre-
sumably not aware of government's role.)

=

SOURCE;

FIL!

STAPF:

DARE:


£ abed ZeLeozze:PI90qG SG60S AH

DATES: leasran CATEGORIES:
196> | “SBA SYNDICATE/PHASE IT
une 1962 '

PERSONS/ENTLTIES:
HARVEY, William
O' CONNELL EES MPONIEEE =

~

ROSSELLL, “J8hir

OCCURRENCE: (46)
HARVEY, O'CONNELL, and ROSSELLI meet in Washington./ O'CONNELL and HARVEY agreed that O'CONNELL
continue in the operation for two or three weeks after HARVEY's takeover (46).

The 1.G. REPORT does not set with certainty the date O'CONNELL was finally eliminated from the
operation, although it says he definitely had to be out of the operation by June 1962, when he
_-was_assigned to Okinawa. __ :

T.G. REPORT 1967, p. 46 Baron

FILE: DATE: = 28.6.75


8 abeaq ZeLeoeze:Plo0d cceoc AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORLES: op SECRET
HARVEY, William { (CANS #020 —
ROSSELLI, John” 21 April 1962 ; ~GUBa--- SYNDICATE/PHASE II

VARONA, Tony
O'CONNELL ES SDONNEERE- *

OCCURRENCE:
HARVEY arrives in Miami to find ROSSELLI already in touch with TONY VARONA, the Cuban exile
leader who had participated in PHASE I. (47)

According.to HARVEY and O'CONNELL, who agreed that this. was an on-going, operation,

the poison pills were to be placed into CASTRO's food, by an asset of VARONA's who had access
to someone in a restaurant frequented by CASTRO. : .

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT.1967, p. !I7

FILE: DATE:  28.6.75


“6 abea ZSLE0ZZEsPIO0d coeos BN

HAS NO OBJECTION 70
CLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF HS DOCU uy

SANITIZED
* + Mot

Food)

PERSONS/ENTLTIES? DATES: leasteo CATEGORIES:
HARVEY, WiLlJam 14 April. 1962 | -B#AAR-- SYNDICATE/PHASE TI
O' CONNELL (er re sa oe co dune 19627) | ,
ROSSELLI, Johnie Se -

OCCURRENCE: (6)
HARVEY, O'CONNELL, and ROSSELLI meet in Washineton./ O'CONNELL and HARVEY agreed that O'CONNELL
continue in the operation for two or three weeks after HARVEY's takeover (46).

The 1.G. REPORT does not set with certainty the date O'CONNELL was finally eliminated from the
operation, although it says he definitely had to be out of the operation by June 1962, when he

was—assignedtoOkinawa....

STAFF:

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 46

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75


OT 26eq ZALEOSZE:PIIOG CGEOS AH

A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
SIFICATION AND/OR:
Bus OF THIS DOCUMENT

ASSANITIZED y

DATES: CATEGORIES:

MONGOOSE

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
MCCONE, HARVEY, §RW¢

sau Sus
Cuban regime. Ac ‘ Cur \ te obtained
eae to provide intelligence on the Cuban “colitical leadership ‘and to work

mshi

nst_ the Cuban Communist regime rtof_engaging in activity which might result in

‘direct personal harm and Fidel:'J Arrangements were being made for
‘direct recruitment o

STAFF:

=| 10 July 1962 (02561) >, di Genova
DATE? July 1, 1975



- TT ahead ceieotze:Plood cceoc AH

- PERSONS/ENTITIFS :

OCCURRENCE:

|AS NO OBJECTION TO
Cr ASSIFICATION AND/OR .
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN
"AS SANITIZED
24-3749" 4 ;
aoe

DATES: | CATEGORIES:

Desmond FITZGERALD

AML, Get. 29, 1963} castro

HELMS Cad tf 2

{CARD 1) aE NG a iL

Desmond FITZGERALD, Chief of SAS, met with AMLASH, using as interpreter.
(88-89). The cover of the "contact plan for the meeting, a copy of which is in the
AMLASH file," (89) read as follows: :

“FITZGERALD will represent self as personal representative of Robert F. KENNEDY ge"
who traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting (AMLASH) and giving him

assurances of full U.S. support if there is change of the present government

in Cuba." (89) : ,

IG REPORT 1967

FILE: 7/1/75


ZI abeg zereozze:pIloca cs60c AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO ~
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT.

AS SANITIZED
24-3-44% S0*-

ane - . 4)

DATES: CATEGORIES:
. i
a XN 1
Oct. 29,/1963 Castro
Nov. 1
lov 1963 Cad 24 a

OCCURRENCE: (CARD 2)

In a memorandum by f

n November 13, 1963, it was reported that "FITZGERALD
informed [AMLASH] that the U.S. is prepared to render all necessary assistance to

any anti-Communist Cuban group which succeeds, in neutralizing the present Cuban
leadership." (89) Despite the fact that egy iEZ reported that “nothing of an operational
nature was discussed at the FITZGERALD meeting " (90), FITZGERALD recalled that

AMLASH-1 "spoke repeatedly of the need. for_an. assassination-weapons—iIn-particular,

he wanted a high-powered rifle with telescopic sights. or some other weapon that could
be used to kill Castro from a distance." (90) FITZGERALD said that he told AMLASH
"that the U. Enment would have no part of an attempt Omr€ASTRO's life. (90)
However, the ymemorandum reported "After the meen cig ¢ LASH] stated that he
was satisfied with the policy discussion but no} Sad Michgw what technical support
we could provide him."(90) BS )

SOURCE:
IG REPORT 1967

FILE:


ET aBed ZRLEOZTEPTO0G Geeos MH

HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED |
4-3 -4%
Ge)
PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: | CATEGORIES:
Desmond FITZGERALD
AMLASH o/ Oct. 29, 1963 | Castro
"NGS Cory SANCHE: eo
Robert KENNEDY a:
HELMS Cad t 4 zm

OCCURRENCE: (CARD 1)" Hi

Desmond FITZGERALD, Chief of SAS, met with AMLASH, usin. s interpreter.

(88-89). The cover of the "contact plan for the meeting, a copy of which is in the
AMLASH file," (89) read as follows:

"FITZGERALD will represent s as personal representative of Robert F. KENNEDYg.>~
who traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting (AMLASH) and giving him

assurances of full U.S. support if there is change of the present government

in Cuba." (89)

According to FITZGERALD, he discussed the planned meeting with the DD/P (HELMS)
who decided it was not necessary to seek approval from Robert KENNEDY for FITZGERALD
= rr x
SOURCE STAFF:
F Baron
IG REPORT 1967 DATE:
> 7/1
FILE: M175


FI afea zeceoeze:PIo0g cceoc MN

HAS.NO OBJECTION TO
BECLASSIFICATICN OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
‘AS SANITIZEO

24-3 -40

(1X)

DATES:

Oct. 29,/1963
Nov. 13\1963

In a memorandum by[:s CHEZson November 13, 1963, it was reported that "FITZGERALD
informed [AMLASH] that the U.S. is prepared to render all necessary assistance to

any anti-Communist Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing the present Cuban
leadership." (89) Despite the fact that COAN 4jreported that "nothing of an operational
nature was discussed at the FITZGERALD meeting " (90), FITZGERALD recalled that
AMLASH-1 "spoke repeatedlyof tthe need for an assassination weapon. In particular,

he wanted a high-powered rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon that could

be used to kill Castro from a distance." (90) FITZGERALD said that he told AMLASH

"that the U.S. Government would have no part of an attempt ong€ASTRO's life. (90)

However, the 2) memorandum reported "After the meek a Ox MLASH) stated that he

was satisfied Witt the policy discussion but no i é @kadow what technical support
; oh ch

o

CATEGORIES:

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

Castro

Cae 2-4 2

we could provide him."(90)

SOURCE? STAFF:
IG REPORT 1967 F°Baron
FILE: DATED gy1s75



ST ahed seLeoece:ploed Gce0s AH

SANCHEZ”
ILASH
(MANUEL) ARTIME

0
9 0 MOO
nisrecns 00
ANS) eo

DATES: | CATEGORIES:

|
Dec. 6-7, 1964 i Castro

his plans during the past
the Cuban problem was the only one feasible and that he had
(YOO) AMLASH "was told that the U.S. Government could
way become involved or provide assistance in the task he

G0)

However, the IG REPORT explains that SAS "
(AMLASH) together in such a way that neith

AMLASH indicated that although he was unable to
year, he "continued to feel that his solution to

to continue trying."
not and would not in any
had planned for himself."

contrived to put (MANUEL) ARTIME and —-
er knew that the contact had been engineered

by the CIA. The thought was that ARTIME needed a man inside and (AMLASH) wanted a

silenced weapon, which CIA was unwilli
the two together, ARTIME mi
weapon-~from ART IM,

to give to [AMLAS

SOURCE:

IG REPORT 1967

ing.to furnish to him directly. By putting

ght get his man inside and (AMLASH) might get his silenced

1ish an assassination weapon for ARTIME

yy

Fgad co fu

Gay gj

STAFF:

F Baron

PATE a 1/75


oT abed zaLeoeze :PIo0 SG60S AH

os

a
<0
gONIOR

you ron

pete ENG WO"
Seuss or

BPD y
rn son he)
CATEGORIES:

Dec.

30,

ARTIME and AMLASH met in Madrid, where AMLAS

silencer for a FAL rifle from the Americans,

ARTIME agreed to furnish either a silencer fo

silencer." (102) ARTIME reported the results
GSaN (CHEZ ein Florida on Jan. 3, 1965,

TOP SEGR

OURCE: :
SOURCE IG REPORT 1967

FILE:

1964

H told ARTIME that "he had requested a

which they had not been able to provide.
ra FAL or a comparable rifle with
of this conversation in a meeting with

STAFF:

F Baron

DATES 1/75



LT ahead ZaLE0ZZE:PIO0G CoeOG AN

SIA HAS No OByec
cr
Eee winaes
AS Sanitizey "S POCUMENT
24-3 44% Be
0) @)

$e

‘PERSONS/ENTITIES:
ARTE

DATES: CATEGORIES:
AMLASH
NCEE? Dec. 30, 1964

Castro

Jan. 3, 1965

CCURRENCE:

ARTIME and AMLASH met in Madrid, where AMLASH told ARTIME that
silencer for a FAL rifle from the Americans,

"he had requested a

which they had not been able to provide,
ARTIME agreed to furnish either a silencer for a FAL or a comparable rifle with

silencer." (102) ARTIME Teported the results of this conversation in a meeting with

SANGHEZYin Florida on Jan. 3, 1965. .

Bigs

SOURCE: 3 on
SOURCE? J, REPORT 1967 STAPPS OF Raron
FILE: DATE:

7/1/75



BT shed zeceozze:PIo0q Gceos AN

|AS NO OBJECTION 10
oet USSIFIGATION AND/OR
“RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED pi
29-377

CATEGORIES:

REK ir.
iceGeorge Buisly bir. Mr.

Mir. Johnson Dr. Charyk /
Mr. Gilpatric’ Dr. Scoville

Gan. ‘Taylor Col. Steakley

Parrot

Net 9, 1962 Special Group (Augmented)

Wong cose

OCCURRENCE:
SGA discussed various. possibilities of accomplishing reconaissance of Cuba, ranging fron
very low level coverage by tactical aircr: alt to high performance aircraft and drones. Over-
lights and peripheral flights were discussed.

sion in the western part of ¥
son the results of this,
Later approved by higher

It was agreed that the first priority is one high perfomnance
the island, to be accompanied by all out Elint support. “Depend
a uuaber of similar scarches way be imouted, rst wission 4
authority, but the decision on the second proposition left

The eutire package was to be discus y Cpiels on Wednesday, October 10th.

clatede

Memorandum f record, vaneeting of | DATE: POH
> orepared by Thomas Parrot. | 7

CHINA, qlee



6T anea ZBLEOZTE!PIOCG GGE0s BH

SOURCE:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION. TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED.
24-3 -4
a)

. PERSONS/ENTITIES:
(See list of names below. )

f CATEGORIES: TOP SECRET
CAST@O
GPA - SYNDICATIT/PHASE IT --

KNOWLEDGE OF PHASE IT
CARD 1 of 3

OCCURRENCE? ‘the list of persons with knowledge of PHASE II of the CASTRO ASSASSINATION
OPERATION differs from those who knew of PHASE I. Those with knowledge of PHASE II are:

1. RICHARD HELMS, DD/P 5. J.C. KING, Chief, WH Division (He stated in
2. WILLIAM HARVEY, Chief, Task Force W our interview with him that he knew that HARVEY
3. JAMES O'CONNELL, Office of Security was having meetings with members of the pambling,
(He knows that Harvey took over the’ syndicate in 1962.)

operation and delivered pills, arms, and 6. ny HARVEY 's deputy in 1962 —————
equipment in April 1962. He does not is that HARVEY was meeting with

know of developments after May 1962.) gansters in Reno (sic) in the winter of 1962.)

4. SMEMFIELD FDWARDS, D/Security (He 7 TED SHACKLEY, Chief, JMWAVE (He assisted
knows of the fact of the turnover to HARVEY in the delivery of arms and equipment to
HARVEY, but states he knows nothing of VARONA in April.1962, but presumably did not know
develonments thereafter. ) the identities of the recipients nor (con't.)

- STARE
T.G. REPORT 1967 ew a5 & om exec rane | SEARFD

FILE:


ike abed . SBLEOSSEPIIOG GGe0S MH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED Be
24-3-47%

u) @)

FONOUND/ENLLTLBS ! CATEGORIES:
(Same instruction as card 1.)
; CARD 2 of 3

CCURRENCE?
SHACKLEY, cont: the purpose for which the ; 11. MACEO, ROSELLI's "Man" (MACEO
mate’ rial was le scd ) probably knew there was: a government
8. Ale CTR connection, but may not have identified
ticipation was Lim ted to furnishing the CIA as the agency.)

pills to O'CONNELL on 18 April 1962.)
9. ANTONIO VARONA; the Cuban exile leader - ;
(He presumably was not aware of government °
sponsorship. )
10. VARONA'S SON-IN-LAW (He too was pre-
sumably not aware of government's role.)

SOURCE:

PILE:



Te abeqd Z8Le0eZe'PIIOG CGEeOS AH

on T0
0 OBJECTION. on
NAN
SS
RELA ZED aw
ay

Pa
DATES: CATEGORIES: ‘
26 Jan. 1961 EXECUTIVE ACTION =

HARVEY testified that he had a conversation with ARNO " STLVER about the EXECUTIVE ACTION
nroject on January 26, 1961, after HARVEY and BISSELL had already discussed the matter. (52)._

HARVEY testified that “he learned carly in the operation that BISSELL had discussed the ques- ‘ ¢
tion of assassination with ARNOEDESTEUERS (52)

TAFF: Thea

DATE: 30.6.75


ae ehed .zeLeozze:ploed cceos BH

iON 10
0 OBJECT DIOR
CAUSA ASUNENT
e See aT. a)

CATEGORIES:
EXECUTIVE ACTION

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

1/26/61

: Harvey testified that he had a conversation with fArno! 5
lxecutive Action Project on January 26, 1961, after Harvey and BisselI~had @ady discussed
the matter (52). Harvey testified that he learned early in the operation that Bissell had
discussed the question of assassination with APO. ‘SiIver) (52)

URCE: STAPF:
source HARVEY TESTIMONY, Jume 25, 1975, p. 52 aa Rhea

3 oe DATE:
FILE: . DATE 6/30/75



€@.abed ZSLe0eZe'PII0G CGEOG AH

NO OBJECTION TO
Ci RSC IFIOATION AND/OR
SET EASE OF THIS DOCUME!
aS SANITZED tee
Ba 3°

OG

PERSONS/ENTITIES: CATEGORIES:

HARVEY, WILLIAM EXECUTIVE ACTION ,
ESELVERS: SEVER SEARN af ‘

KUBARK

p : Marvey was as ESrvery
meeting in January of 1961, concerning Executive Aetion. One portion of the notes
stated, "Be within KUBARK, one focal point for control, search, training, case
officering, etc. -- GDP authority in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially
advised?" (57) Harvey testified that he did not know whether the DCI was advised,.
that he had been asked to create a capability for Executive Action and had taken
certain steps to have an assessment of assets in that connection. (57) Ilarvey
Clarified that the wording of the memo probably meant that consideration should be y
given to the question of how, whether and under what circumstances the DCI should be
officially advised of his program, "I want to make it clear that this in no way

means he should be advised. He should not be advised, he should never be advised,

he should always be advised." (59). Ile testified that this matter would have been
brought up again at any time re OE aeen meee to specific targeting

or specific operation or specif. Pa

SOURCE: TIARVEY TESTIMONY, June “By, QLSvg,, 1 BENT te a STAT Rhea
sf ames
FILE: DATE: 6/30/75



“pe abea -zeceozze:prlocad cc6os BH

1A HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CECLASSIFICATION annren, '
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUM
AS SANITIZED, 2-~—

24- a 5b )

DATES: | “CATEGORIES : TOP SECRET
May 1961

EXECUTIVE ACTION
February 19, 1942

LR RIELE.

OEE dusting
. er BISSELL, | Richard’
“FMEA, Patrice
OCCURRENCE:

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -egeme program came to be known as ZRRIPF

Its principal asset was
an agent, QUWIN, who had been recruited earlier by SARRINOILDY SSUBEN) for use ina special opera-

tion in be 5 tobe run by JUS BINGO)
L@ figjmade a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in t i
witeapt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted)." (38)

I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE:


Ge ahed -2eLeoece:ploed Gce0s AH

DATES: CATEGORIES:  ‘tOP_SECRISL
Febrvary 1961 | EXECUTIVE ACTION Vi POUL EE
(HARVEY's rourhh CAcTRO - RIFLE
estimate) ; . .

etter COM CO

the
BISSELL assigns to HARVEY /. developing of "en EXECUTIVE ACTION capability, i.e.,
a general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.” (37)

. "HARVEY's notes quote BISSELL as saying, 'The WHITE HOUSE has twice urged me to create such
a capability.'. BISSELL recalls discussing the question of developing a general capability

with HARVEY." (37)

"HARVEY says that _BISSELL had already discussed certain aspects of the problem with CARNOLD.
(STeyErBand with{SEMERCORMIERTY. 37-38)... .
° (continued ) ened (e42.

“[.G. REPORT 1967, pp. 37-38 STAFF: Baron

SOURCE:

FILE: DATE:  28.6.75



92 ahed ceLeozze:PIoO0d GGeOs AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION T
DECLASSIFICATION aNDIOR
SE OF THIS DOC
SANITIZED CUMENT

amr)

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES:

BISSELL, Richard
HARVEY, William
SERTEER
ESLLVER; GAPRO

Sane

WUseiny) FEB.
Se May 1961

agi

LUMUMBA, Patrice
OCCURRENCE: |

The EXECUTIVE ACTION program authorized by BISSELL and run b
as_ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was an agent WIN, wi

for _use,in_a_ special operation in

EXEC
CONGO

CATEGORIES: ‘TOP_SECRET
UTIVE ACTION /2 RRIFLE

GY vp
: pica y

‘pan by SUSTIN:O' DONNEEES (ame

Evade a survey of the. scene, decided he wanted no part in

that assassination attempt * and-asked to be released -~ which BISSELL pranted.)" (38)

NOTE: In the copy of the I.G. REPORT provided to the Committee, which was, according to
EARMAN's cover memorandum the ribbon copy, which. was the only text of the report in existence qh,

phrase in the above paragraph

was crossed out. S

BRECKENRIDGE indicated to the Committee that this phrase was crossed out by RICHARD HELMS when

he read the report. Why?

SOURCE:

I.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE:

DATE: — 28.6.75


L@ ead ZALEOZSEsPIOCG =seeos BH

re AS NO OBJECTION TO
GECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN!

AS SANITIZE? Le
24-37; Y4/

DATES: | CATEGORIES: TOP SECREL
i

May 1961
February 19, 1942

Feb., Vel

EXECUTIVE ACTION

ZRRIELE

OCCURRENCE:
"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-

corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -tawgmssge- program
an arent, i VER¢for use in a special opera-
tion in the to be run by gUSTT DONNELE

‘LE. Its principal asset was

came to be known as ZRR

yy

BONNEEF made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in that assas ination
empt, and asked to be released -- which BISSELL granted)." (38)

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE: DATE: 28.6.75


az abeq ZeLeozZe:PIO0d GG60s AH

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES: CATEGORIES: TOP SECREI
f

HO) NETL 5!dus tains
. J BISSELL, Richard

EXECUTIVE ACTION

LRRIELE

‘ebruary “19 » 19

|

MUMBA, Patrice Feb, Vel
OCCURRENCE:

"The project name, ZRRIFLE, first appears in the files in May 1961, although the first re-
corded approval is dated 19 February 1962." (38)

"The EXECUTIVE ACTION -eagsaye- program came to be known_as ZRRIFLE. Its principal asset was
an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruited earlier by§ ARNOLD SILVER} for use_in a special opera-
tion inthe | 5 to be run byLSUSTIN. OLDONNELL
<(O'DONNEEEY made a survey of the scene, decided he wanted no part in that assassination

SOURCE: 1.G. REPORT 1967, p. 38

FILE: DATE:  28.6.75


6% abea zeceozze:PIo°¢a se6og AN

|AS NO OBJECTION TO
CTA SSIFICATION AND/OR 1,
RELEASE. OF THIS DOCUMENT

as SANITIZE Qe—
AT Oe)

PERSONS/ENTITIES:
WARVEY, William

te QyWIN
we

CATEGORIES:

EXECUTIVE ACTION

es,

OCCURRENCE:

HARVEY testified that QJ.Win was an agent that he considered for possible use and used for a
limited period through®(RNOLD STi for the spotting, of individuals with criminal and under-
world connections in Europe for possible multipurpose use, none of whom were ever advised of
the use. (50) Or were ever used. :

- When HARVEY-was asked if the multipurpose use included assassination, he stated that if
ne had ever been directly ordered to perform an assassination, he would have considered the
neople spotted by &.J.Winas possibilities. (50) He testified that before someone would have
actually been approached to carry out that operation, there would have been a lonp, period of

assessment and cross checks. As far as he knew, the particular spottine mechanism never went
that far. So far_as HARVEY could recall K J.Win was used only once in connection with an opera
tion dn the (51) ,

SOURCE: HaRvEy me
FILE: def

STAFF? Rhea

DATE?  30.6.75


oe aheg ZELeozzeiPTOca Geos AH

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

“AS SANITIZED
2q-3-4¢
w 4
CNS

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES:

March 9, 1961

: JACK STEWARD, an officer fassuonede i
Mexico City with a high officer dC 0 Was Subsequently
to become a CIA asset known as A.M. LASH-1.* BSHEWAREmet with A.M. LASH to

sound out his views on the Cuban Situation. A.M. LASH was in Mexico City to
attend a "'leftist-sponsored" conference. (78).

The March 1961 meeting was inconclusive, but it led to other meetings out
i j ; A.M. LASH-1 "repeatedly insisted that

voney met in

offered both direct and indirect
rere 3

support for /A\M. LASI['S7 Tee 4 ayn next card)

SOURCE:

IG REPORT, 1967*
FILE:



Te ahed “zeLeozze:PIo0d GG60G AH

10 5
pone WOE
areicane pow:
AAC RES HE
Oey yw
) gat (7
we?
Piz Sones NEITEES: DATES: CATEGORIES!
RIK > iicCone [Ledford (CIN)
McGeorge Bundy ie . Wilson “Parrot | Oct 9, 1962] Special Group (Augmented)
} Johnson De. Charyk
ir, Gilpatric, lr. Scoville
Can. ‘Taylor~ Col. Steakley a Wong eose.
OCCURRENCE: 7 — :

SGA discussed various possibilities of accomplishing reconaissance of Cuba, ranging Fron
very low level coverage by tactical craft to high performance aircraft and drones. Qver-
Cliv mits and peripheral flights were discussed.

It was agreed that the t priority is one high performance mission in the “estern part-ofW
the i Land, to he ‘accompanied. by all out lint ort. Nepending on the results of this,

a nunber of siailar scarches may be mounted. Fi mission was later approved by higher
authority, but the decision on the second proposition left open.

P STAR:

Memoranda for the record,
TILE; Opecial Group Auguented and pre] pared by Shows “Parrot.
FILE: ° i ‘I ye 6/29/75

DATE: Pav
