{176-10036-10093 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10093
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILENUMBER :  ~

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :
TO: ihe
TITLE : Views of Ngo Dihn Nhu
DATE : 4/2/1963 °
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION. :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2


AEMPT NUK EIT DIY &

5, Tees “3/she, 408 -

DATE DisTR. 2 APRIL 1963

ROUTINE
Al REFERENCES i IN
VIETNAM, SAIGON (27 MARCH 1963)

SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO, FVS-8719
THIS Is: UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE: GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. \APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 'S TENTATIVE.

1. SAID bed HE DISAGREED WITH THE

- POSLTIONS APPARENTLY TAKEN BY SENATOR MANSFIELD AND,

TO iy ,TO. IMPLY THE. DESIRABILITY OF. WITHDRAWAL OF. bea ytiatd ADD AND PRESENCE

FROM CERTAIN COUNTRIES AND CONCENTRATION, on OTHER be ec HE THOUGHT THAT

-THE. WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AID AND PRESENCE FROM any, apd AN WHICH THE
COMMUNIST PRESENCE AND ACTIVITIES CONSTITUTED A DANGER WOULD CREATE A VACUUM

FRB one

WHICH TE COMMUNISTS WOULD FILL. HE EMPHASIZED SEVERAL TIMES THE DANGER oF

COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL.

2. AT THE SAME TIME

_ NEED FOR

‘OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. : (18-20)


CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

<P-I-D-B-N-@-I-A-L -. NO FOREIGN DISSEM -

TDCS -3/542,408

EFFECT OF AID WITRIN ANY GIVEN, COUNTRY. HE SAID mar FOR THE PAST: TWO OR
THREE MONTHS, HE HAD COMMENTED ON PRESIDENT DIEN's AND HIS oun RECOGNITION
THAT SOUTH VIETNAM MUST ACHIEVE BETTER QUALITATIVE URILIZATION OF AMERICAN
AID, .HE REITERATED HIS CONCEPT OF SELF- “SUFFICIENCY, HS THEME THAT AN
‘UNDERDEVELOPED COUNTRY SHOULD NOT BECOME ACCUSTOMED TO LIVING AT TOO
ARTIFICIALLY HIGH A STANDARD BASED ON FOREIGN AID, AND HE EXPRESSED THE
BELIEF THAT SOUTH VIETNAM IS MOVING TOWARD A BETTER STRUCTURED" UTILIZATION
OF. AID AND IS CONCENTRATING IT AT THE GRASS ROOTS AMONG THE PEASANTRY. HE
COMMENTED THAT URBAN INDUSTRIALIZATION AND OTHER FORMS OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT
DID NOT MEET THE NEEDS OF THE MASS OF PEOPLE AND PROVED TOO SLOW IN ACHIEVING
AN IMPACT. HE REMARKED THAT HE CONTINUES TO SEARCH FOR WAYS TO DIMINISH THE
LEVEL OF FOREIGN AID REQUIRED IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND BELIEVES ALSO THAT WAYS
SHOULD BE FOUND TO DIMINISH THE NUMBERS OF AMERICANS DEPLOYED THERE. HOWEVER,
NEU DID NOT IMPLY THAT ESSENTIAL AID OR ESSENTIAL AMERICAN PRESENCE SHOULD IN
ANY WAY BE DISCARDED,
3. | |sarD THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND CONGRESS TEND 70 LOOK UEON

THE PROBLEM OF UNDERDEVELOPED COUNTRIES AS AN ISOLATED PROBLEM ACCENTUATED
CRITICALLY BY THE COMMUNIST THREAT, AND TO CONSIDER AID AND AMERICAN PRESENCE
MORE AS MEASURES IN THEMSELVES BY WEICH 10 MEET THESE ORISES. ON’ THE OTHER

mu, lat DIEM SEE AMERICAN AID AND PRESENCE IN SOUTH VIETNAM, ACCORDING
mo GIVEN THE LARGE SCOPE OF THE PHENOMENA, AS A RAMIFYING “MEETING OF

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L_ NO FOREIGN DISSEM

AQNEA  Nantacnnnnce-s


CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CIVILIZATIONS." SAID THAT DIEM HAD USED THIS EXPRESSION RECENTLY IN AN

INTERVIEW WITH AMERICAN REPORTERS TO MEAN THE MEETING OF WESTERN (AMERICAN)

CIVELIZATION WITH SOUTH VIBINAMESE CIVILIZATION. | REMARKED THAT THIS WAS

A FERMENTING PROCESS AND COULD HAVE "EXPLOSIVE" CONSEQUENCES FOR SOUTH VIETNAM.
| CommuTED THAT THESE CONSEQUENCES OF THE "MEETING OF CIVILIZATIONS" WERE

INHERENT IN OTHER COUNTRIES WHERE FOREIGN AID AND PERSONNEL WERE PRESENT TO

A LARGE DEGREE, IN THIS CONNECTION, (SAID THAT COLONIALISM IN ITSELF HAD

NOT BEEN ALL BAD. REFERRING TO VIETNAM'S EXPERIENCE WITH THE FRENCH, SAID

THAT THE WORST ASPECTS OF COLONLALISM HAD COME AT THE LOWER RANKS OR AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE FRENCH COLONIAL STRUCTURE AND THAT THEY HAD RESULTED FROM THE
ACTIVITIES OF FRENCH "ADVENTURERS," COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVES, AND LOWER
FUNCTIONARIES. HE: ADDED THAT THESE KINDS OF REPRESENTATIVES WERE PRESENT ALSO
AMONG THE AMERICANS CURRENTLY IN SOUTH VIETNAM, WHILE, AT THE UPPER ECHELON OF
AMERICAN PRESENCE, THERE. WERE MANY REPRESENTATIVES WHOSE ROLE WAS CONSTRUCTIVE :
AND HELPFUL TO SOUTH VIETNAM. ,

4, CONTINUED BY EMPHASIZING THAT HE IS NOT ANTI-AMERICAN AND THAT

HE HOPED TRAT HIS COMMENTS WOULD NOT BE MISCONSTRUED IN THAT SENSE. HE SAID

THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM HAS ATTEMPTED TO PROVIDE ITS PEOPLE WITH A
_ CLEAR NATIONAL DOCTRINE AND THAT HE FELT THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAD MADE CONSIDERABLE
PROGRESS IN ACHIEVING THIS GOAL. HE COMMENTED THAT IN HIS OPINION, THIS WAS NOT

THE CASE TWO OR THREE YEARS AGO, BUT HAS BECOME TRUE GRADUALLY DURING THE

TLASSIFICATION™ BISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L : NO FOREIGN DISSEM



CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-IA-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS -3/542,408

DEVELOPMENT OF THE CURRENT WAR, AND ESPECIALLY THROUGH THE-ESTABLISHMENT AND
PROGRESS OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM.
5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID USIA

OND AIR DIVISION 9TH FIELD STATION CINCPAC ARPAC PACFLT PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS,

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO_FOREIGN DISSEM

C r
