# 176-10036-10058

## Page 1

176-10036-10058

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10058

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : Director, CIA

TITLE : Activities of Cuban Trained Peruvian Guerrillas

DATE: 4/11/1963

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 51: Cuba, Subjects intelligence material

6/63-7/63. Box 1

- .....

---

## Page 2

Залідс!

N64-01-051-7-413

SFCRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

(4)

EYES ONLY

lil April 1963

HEVORANDU! FORS

SUBJECT

The Director os Centrel Intelligence

settrities of Caben mained Peruvien Guerrsites

The information' in this memorandus comes dron an extremely.

ensitive touce

No other dissemination has been made of the re

ports be has provided; in order to protect him and to lasure that a

channo, la kept open to in. The Infortation is being forzarded, 1n

this restricted samir at this tine to, ruraten an tosdent into the

xtent of Cuban elorts to asatet, lati Aner can revolut lonary rove

nenter

Bites, 61

no timo In ed ance they vero, to be given training.

The

erartant in an solf contelned unitor in secret trash

the houses and the locat sons of the over.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

ECRET

Although many left Peru openly on valid papors, they are coming

back illegally.

Some have false documontarion iron Other countries;

primarily tron Colombia) some have Peruyian passports lamued in the

names of persons non deceaseds come are croasing the borders from

neighbaring countries clandestinely without showing art papers; and

some go by sell boats to nolated areas:

the Movimlento Izqulorda: Revolu

clonerso (MIR) of peru inich nou plans to join with other leftist

revolutionary groups to brine hints on before the elections

scheculed for Juno 1963.

of some. 200 Peruviand tno

bave Teceived Cuban training, only n small percentege of woon are

actually Camuntet Party menbere?

Approx netoly 300 percons have been named

being connected with the ring belping the Peruviang to reinfiltrate

cecretly. At empto ero being, made to: learn whether tonefor those,

return of Onbon trathed fuertine to ochen couparton.

41...

per te has energed se the center of the networko

croupe of

ten art vo weekly on dube to. be sent on, to ver zous Latin Anertoon

counts led for oventual re-entry, into Peru. The man in charge of the

Peruyians le headquartered in Parte% Tron there, he hao bean direct.

Lne the trever

seceiving.

tor 1d, and hond he dos are l

195.

Corrospondence botreen menbers of the group ta. by. cable and

The securty of commications la protested by several

internato sten of odo and rect into er act eat bin are

as been assleed a numbor, and lotter and number deslgant sons ero.

given to hotele and pensione. In cable correspondences the ring uses

these numbero to indicate wich persons are traveling and there they

my bo: reached The content of the moshaggo app

ars: to relato to

blesness nattera, covering, ahipment dated and Unronce numbere, to

sample, Letter correspondenco contesne secret tiring with

roletively cophdscated evotens, interepaced between Lines of innoquous

triendly or businosa lettero A diationary la used for coded mes.

sages in either cables or letters, with page and word mumben rofer.

Einsto cimdestine lay words:

SECRET

---

## Page 4

FORET

- 30

10. The ring takes great precentions to prevent tracing of the

adaresses. One of the important links le a soman whose Parte home

has entrances on two different streete. She and her misband use the

principat street address for their normal livess but the back street

address for the receipt of clandestine correspondonces

I. In this Cuban-sponsored cubversive operation, routes of

travel are planned to escepe easy detection of the tact that a pereos:

hap left hio home, been, tratned, and, has, returned to his countrys

Host of the travel had been by vey of Mexico and thence to Cuba,,

since it was possible to escape detection of, the travel. The Cuband:

Issued; loose leat inserts for the travelers, passports, rather than,

stamping a record of the travel to tao documert itset??

Govermont has recently begin measures to control this travel,, but e.

large nmber have managed to. enter. and leave. Cuba for Mexico without

cotection. Bone of the travel to Cube. le by to of the Dutch and Britieh

west, Indied:

"Many Of the returning trainees go through Parto and Prague,

from Paste Athe revolere Can out to e miber of disterant, batin

Amer loaa countries,, tron mich they attempt rolandest inotre-entry into:

Ports Loudor

*Colombia, and Brezi? have been teed, extonedvely as

Satin Amer toan entry-points ad the trevelara Leave Pario:

that honey for tale extensive trave

Via Cubes vin

to evota:

toly not to ask forvata routhe Sovleber

with

Chane, 981nce

monting company resor

all oquipment -

les Involving

on 3.

when thes

and the

back. int

wen the co

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

the next group will mimber approxamately 100 men and that they will

receive instrutions In Algeria, North: Vietnem; Laos, and China. She

top leader of the Peruvian troup hae told hid leutenants that ho 11

soon go to Algerie to sturt arrangenente for thie trainings,

15. The tdd ha planned four crante in Pera in 1t8 proposed

revolution. One is in the south with headquartere la Cuzco, another

is in the contral region in the Sierra. a third is in limax and the:

fourth is in nörthern Peru.

16-

requent seference to internal disputes in

tiC fIR between the old line Communists and those referred to Es

Protokyltend

The Man leaders In Cuba felt that some of their oun

eroups had joined with the Trotao ten and they discussed tale problen

with ridol Castro.

vanbro promised not to let the so-called trotéko

ites return to Peru until the othero veroterready in place and in

command of the severai frontse

hagaly incenced.

the hoverent and they have been espocietly cheturocd to sina, chet

to Cuban officere, Des are inow to be trotukyitoo, had accompanted:

then tron Cube.

770

detented thno, in oute tele ot

least thor nontin forettof the Peruvims to retune

The re-arte

Moreover Countet group in oho of the neighbe ine counteren which

no monta bo regulyed, to potato that is at one me at

19. bacent however, the operation han been hereas net

the leaders of the til have been putting adant to

8B

ton of these neerby comtr 103 16 aleo being procured to assistrothere:

to croce

Into

SECRET

---

