(176-10036-10135] {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10135
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE : 10/4/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : dnceens
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : .
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,10/6/1963-10/14/63. Box 2



PCa eed ihanaia edema AY

|

At SEMATION REPORT £

TELEGR M a

‘CENTRAL weve

USC Seer

‘Datenie of the United

mation affecting the Sta
‘ony manner to an unavlhéraed. perian’ it" Brohi

‘or revelation of which of tha Exoronage

bby law.

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION GONTROLS : a
CONFIDENTIAL ___- NO) FOREIGN DISSEM L

£ This: matatiat ‘co!

9S and: 794;, the Arabs io 18,

COUNTRY © SOUTH VIETNAM ‘ REFORT NO, ToC -3/560,871
SUBJECT PLANNED SUICIDE OF AMBASSADOR DATE DISTR. 4 OCTOBER 1963
_BUU HOI'S MOTHER, DIEU HUE
PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATEOF 3: ocroseR 1963 : REFERENCES IN 32958
INFO. : :
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 octoser 1963)
DATE ACO. f .
APPRAISAL FIELD-REPORT NO. “ FvS

THIS IS UNEVALUATED mronnaTion. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OE CI TENTATIVE.
source |

APPR: EARLIER ALLEGED INTENTIONS OF DIEU HUE TO COMMIT SUICIDE .1N ‘SUPPORT OF
THE BUDDHIST CAUSE WERE WIDELY PUBLICIZED. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SHE
See MIGHT DO-SOs .

1. BY 3 OCTOBER 1963 THE BUDDH|1ST NUN, ‘DIEU “HUES SMOTHER OF
Buu HOI, VIETNAMESE SCIENTIST, AMBASSADOR TO SEVERAL AFRICAN :

COUNTRIES AND ‘CURRENTLY THE GOVERNMNT OF VI TNAM: (GUN): OBSERVER
AT THE UNITED NATIONS (UN), AD DECIDED TO COMMIT SUIC:DE,“PROBABLY
ON 5 OCTOBER,  THREATWAS TIMED. FOR IMPACT ON® THE “UN-BUT"'WAS .NOT
yo BE: BY: BURNING, : ;

2, “DIEU HUE HAD PREPARED A LETTER DENOUNCING'HER-SON AND:
CLIMING THAT BUDDHISM WAS-STILL BEING PERSECUTED ‘IN: VIETNAM,
COPIES OF WHICH WERE TO BE: DISTRIBUTED TO THEY FORIEGN PRESS? AND
TO THE "CLANDESTINE" OPPOSIT|ON BY -HER COMPANTON: AND: ‘ATTENDANT, A

_ CONFIDENTIAL W ict Oe

FOR HUGHES:

+ STATE

EMME D TATE Tor PLS PASS jo MRe - HULSMAN

‘iz PREVIOUS EDITIONS, Pas fee cana 1 (1-29)



sca iaai a DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL "HO FOREN DISSE

YOUNGER “NUN,
3 JUST PRIOR TO THE SUICIDE, THE COMPANION ‘PLIANNED..TO--:

DELIVER A COPY OF THE LETTER TO THE: U,.Si: EMBASSY: FOR AMBASSADOR
LODGE AND TO. SEEK ASYLUM. THERE, SHE BEL VED HER LIFE: WOULD. BE
IN DANGER AS THE.GVN WOULD ‘KNOW THAT ONLY SHE COULD-HAVE: DISTR! BUTED

THE “LETTER,
eo THICH THIEN HOA, PRESIDENT OF THE. PRO=GVN’ UNION” COMMITTEE

FOR THE DEFENSE OF PURE BUDDHISM AND MOST OF THE OTHER: MONKS AND:

NUNS AT-THE AN QUANG: PAGODA, "WHERE DIEU HUE |AND HER ‘COMPANION.

RESIDE; WERE “UNAWARE OF THE SUICIDE’ PLAN,
5e FIELD DISSEM, STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV. MAAG USOM
USIS 9TH FLD, STA: 2ND AIR Div. CINCPAC PACFLT ‘ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

SIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS. ~

(15-20-44-47)

~r%@{INUATION.-OF TOCS INFORMATION REPO[ ©

