# 176-10036-10096

## Page 1

176-10036-10096

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10096

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE : 4/24/1963

PAGES : 743

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

3.72 :

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

Murd

Espronago Laws, Tilla 18, U.S.C Seco

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY U

information affecting

otherich in any denner to the united stade ronn

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

SOUTH VIETNAM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. TOCS -3/544,940

COMMENIS OF NGO DINE NHU ON DECREASING THE DATE DISTR. 24 APRIL 1963

NUMBER OF AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND

ON AMERICAN AID

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

12 APRIL 1963

REFERENCES

IN 24209

*VIETNAM, SAIGON (12 APRIL 1963)

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS- 8830

THIS Is UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

(B); FROM NGO DINH NHU.

APPR INHU PROBABLY HOLDS THE VIENS STATED AND KNEW THEY WOULD REACH AMERICAN CHTICIAIS O

DEEM POSSIBLY HAS RECEIVED COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE AVERICAN PRESENCE FROM VIEINAMESS

OTTOTALS AS STATED IN'' PARA, 3.

1. SUMMARY. NGO DINE NHU SIATED ON 12 APRIL 1963 THAT HE FAVORS A REDUCTION

IN THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND SOME REVISIÓN IN THE AID PROGRAM;

AND, THAT PRESIDENT DIEM HAS RECHIVED COMPLAINTS ABOUT RELACIONSHIPE SEWHEN HIS

OFFICIALS AND THEIR AMERICAN COUNTERPARIS.

2: NGO DINH NHU SAID ON 12 APRIL 1963 THAI THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS IN BOUTH

VIETNAM SHOULD EE REDUCED BY ANTWERE FROM 500 TO 3,000 OR 4,000. WHEN THE

AMERICANS FIRST ARRIVED, NEU COMMENTED, THEY WERE HIGHLY RESPROSED ENGAUSE FENY WORE

VERY HARD-WORKING, DISCIPLINED, AND WITHOUT RANCOR AMONG IHUMSELVES OR TOWARD

OTHER PERSONS; HOWEVER, THE PROCESS OF DIECIPLINE HAS HROKHN DOWN WICH THE

PASSAGE OF TIME*

ÄND THE INCREAGED NUMER OF AMERICANS IN BOUGH VIE NAM.

CLASSIPICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-|-I-D-#-N-T-I-A-L

NO FORDIGN DISSEM

TATE/INA | DIA ARMY/ACAD NAYY

BECDER!

STATE/DIA

TELEGRAM

IINFORMATION REPORT

E*Eluded

18A

BUIaRElE

MERRIES MAN

TELEGRAM

FORM IKD OBSOLETE PREVIOVE EDITIONS.

SANITITER

ned 01-197-6-7-2-4112

(18-40)

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/544,940

24209

PAGE 2

INITIALLY, THE INFLUX OF AMERICANS AND-THEIR STATIONING IN THE

PROVINCES WAS WELCOMED, WITH THE THOUGHT THAT AMERICANS THUS

LOCATED WOULD COME TO UNDERSTAND THE DIFFICULTIES CONFRONTING

THE VIETNAMESE, THEREBY ENABLING THEM TO INTERPRET VIETNAMESE

PROBLEMS SYMPATHETICALLY AND WITH MORE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SITUATION.

THIS HAS NOT PROVED TO BE THE CASE IN ALL INSTANCES.

•3: PRESIDENT DIEM HAS RECEIVED A CONSIDERABLE NUMBER. OF

COMPLAINTS AND STATEMENTS OF IRRITATION FROM HIS MILITARY AND

CIVILIAN CHIEFS. ABOUT PROBLEMS OF RELATIONSHIPS: WITH AMERICAN

COUNTERPARTS,

AMONG OFFICIALS COMPLAINING WAS MAJOR GENERAL

TON THAT DINH, CONMANDING GENERAL, II CORPS, WHO COMMENTED THAT.

THERE WERE TOO MANY AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

COMPLAINTS. HAVE

ALSO COME IN FROM THE JOINT GENERAL STAFF. NHU SAID THAT ONE

ADVANTAGE OF THE AMERICAN PRESENCE AT ALL ECHELONS WAS TO HELP.

KEEP VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS HONEST AND TO STIMULATE THEM INTO

BETTER PERFORMANCE, AS VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS DID NOT WANT TO LOOK

BAD IN THE EYES OF FOREIGN OFFICERS: THE VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS

WERE AT A DISADVANTAGE WITH RESPECT TO THEIR AMERICAN OPPOSITE

NUMBERS, BECAUSE THE AMERICANS CONTROLLED THE MEANS, 1.E., THE

FUNDS AND GOODS, AND THIS CONTRIBUTED TO THE SENSE OF INADEQUACY

AND INFERIORITY ON THE PART OF VIETNAMESE OFFICIALS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GONFIDENTIAL

FORM IK-1.

1-63

USE-PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

AAFG. 2-63

(15-20-44-47)

CUNTINUATION, OF TOES. INFORMATION REPÒN:

---

## Page 4

Pht.1

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/544,940

IN

24209

PAGE

.3

4. CONMENTING ON U.S. AID, NHU SAID: THAT SOME ECONOMIC AID

SHOULD BE AUGMENTED, SOME AID SHOULD BE PROGRAMMED-FOR EVENTUAL

ELIMINATION, SOME FORMS OF AND SHOULD BE PROGRAMMED: FOR ELIMINATION

SOMEWHAT SOONER, AND SOME COULD BE ELIMINATED ALMOST IMMEDIATELY.

5.

HNADQUARTERS COMMENT TDCS-3/544,53L (TVS-8804) REPORTED THAT AT THE 5

APRIL MENTING OF THE IVIERMCNISTRIAI COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMETS, NEU STATED

THAT AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE PLACED IN THE FOLLOWING CATEGORIES OF PRIORITY: FIRST;

AID WHICH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) MUST CONTINUE TO RECEIVE, INDEFINITELY,

SPECIFICALLY THE MEANS OF PRODUCTION, IN WHICH CATEGORY THE GVN WOULD SEEK NEITHER

A REDUCTION NOR AN INCREASE; SECOND, AID WHICH CAN BE EVENTUAILY PHASED OUT; THIRD,

AID WHICE CAN HE TERMINATED IN THE NEAR FUTURE; AND, FOURTE, AID WHICH CAN BE

TERMINAJED IMMEDIATELY.

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACY MAAG AID USIA 2ND AIR

DIVISION JIH FIELD STATION CINCPAC PACFLI. ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORAA 1K-1

1-82

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MFG, 2-63

(75-20-44-471

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

---

