{176-10037-10440 [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA :
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10440
RECORD SERIES : Personal Papers of Richard Goodwin
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :

TO:
TITLE : Information Report Re:
DATE : 9/3/1961

PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : :
COMMENTS : Goodwin Papers: Cuba, Meetings on Refugees, Box 4. Box 7.


This natarlal contalna Isfermation. effecting, the, National” ‘Dotonso:"of" thar Usted?
Pe ae a af wit eames of te aes a States witha, tho meaning: of, the Espionage Laws, Title 18, US.C. Secs.

COUNTRY = BRAZIL CHINA.” CUBA : REPORT'NO.. TDCS, -3/485, 732
* supyect OFFER OF SUPPLIES. AND MENTO. THE ‘Dave bist. -3 SEPTEMBER 1961
GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL BY. - gasses fasadath fee fo : .
- THe GOVERNMEN: ‘s- ‘OF* COMMUNIST CHINA ‘ ee ©] PRECEDENCE: PRIORITY:
“ARND, cuBA : : : ras pense 20h
DATE OF. veexcor 27 august 1961 ; [7 REFERENCES in 2320
PLACE & BRAZIL, RIO: DE JANE RO (2 ‘SEPTEMBER. 1961) ae
| DATE ACO: : fia
APPRAISAL 3°: ae ee “FIELD REPORT NO. HER 2529
[ THIS GUNEALUATED meoton SOURCE GRADINGS: ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE,
SOURCE

URING “THE ‘WEEK, oF 27 "AUG UST PARTY CHALRMAN MAO’ TSE _ TUNG
OF COMMUN IST: CHINA: AND: RENTER
 MATERTAL SUPPORT).

DE CASTRO" OF “CUBA BOTH: OFFERED
INCLUDING. QuorE: VOLUNTEERS “Wa vOTE,: TO LEONEL

ZOLA, ‘GOVERNOR OF, RIO. GRANDE ‘Do SUL, WHO. WAS. ‘LEADING THE STRUGGLE

IN- BRAZIL T0 ASSURE TH Ss {CESS ION TO “THE. PRESIDENCY OF . VICE

} THES RESIGNATION OF “PRES IDENT JANTO QUADROS «

BRIZOLA DID “Nor. Ac PT. THE ‘OFFER, ALTHOUGH, HE. APPRECIATED THE”
MORAL. SUPPORT, BECAUSE. HE-DID NOT. wisH TO. QUOTE CREATE AN INTERNAT~

TONAL. AFFAIR WQUOTE. OF. BRAZIL'S ‘POLITICAL CRISIS.» (FIELD COMMENT s

” prrzota “OBVIOUSLY was AFRAID THAT Ip THE. OFFERS WERE ACCEPTED :

THE UNITED STATES MIGHT INTERVENE. - THE QFFER ‘Of AID- BY CASTRO LEAKED



CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C= Fd CaN

TO THE PRESS; THAT oF MA" DID NOTD« a
2o 2c FIELD DISSEM: STATE, 81, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCARIB. CiNckanr

‘END OF MESSAGE

"CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONi# OLS

a CONTROL

