# 176-10036-10025

## Page 1

176-10036-10025

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10025

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Draft Cabinet List

DATE: 3/26/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

п----

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM INFURMATION REPURT

TELEGRAM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

contains intormation affecting

Nationali Defense of the

United states within the

which in any'manner to

an unauthorused person is Drohibinid or dho Espionage Lome, Tello 18. U.S.C Sace.

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

REPORT NO.

TDCS -3/541,690

DRAFT CABINET LIST. BEING CONSIDERED

BY . ADOULA

DATE DISTR.

26 MARCH 1963

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

26 MARCH 1963

REFERENCES

IN 94631

CONGO, LEOPOLDVILLE (26 MARCH 1963)

3

FIELD REPORT NO. ACL 1338.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

1. AFTER REVIEWING WITH PREMIER CYRILLE ADOULA THE PROBLEM OF

RESHUFFLING THE GOVT AND OBTAINING THE PREMIER'S LATEST VIEWS,

SURETE CHIEF VICTOR NENDAKA PREPARED, AT ADOULA'S REQUEST, A TENTATIVE

GOVT LIST. THE LIST, AS SUBMITTED TO ADOULA THE EVENING OF 26 MARCH

INCLUDES 31 MINISTERS AND 1D SECRETARIES OF STATE. NENDAKA HAS

SUGGESTED THREE VICE PREMIERS, JOSEPH KASONGO (MNC/L) TO SUPERVISE

ECONOMIC PROBLEMS, JACQUES MASANGU (BALUBAKAT WHO ONCE REPRESENTED

TSHOMBE IN BRUSSELS) TO HANDLE RELATIONS WITH PARLIAMENTA AND

EDMOND RÜDAHINDWA (REKO) TO HANDLE (PORTION GARBLED - BEING SERVICED)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INA

DIA ARMY/ACSI, NAVY AIR

JES SECDEF NSA

NIC AÍO USIA OCI

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

GROUP

Eastudad from ou

dorangroding o

00

TELEGRAM

FORM

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

N 94631

(Whett Filled In) ::

7::.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/541, 690

PAGE 2

THE PROVINCES.. IN ADDITION (PORTION GARBLED) HAS RECOMMENDED THAT

. 1

JUSTIN: BOMBOKO BE RETAINED AS FOREIGN MINISTER, WITH THOMAS KANZA AS

HIS DEPUTY TO BE ASSIGNED TO NEW YORK AS PERMANENT DELEGATE TO THE

UNITED NATIONS, JEROME ANANY AS DEFENSE MINISTER, RAPHÄEL SENGA

(CONAKAT BE NAMED INTERIOR MINISTER), RODOLPHE YAVA (CONAKAT) BE

NAMED MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, EMMANUEL BAMBA (ABAKO) BE RETAINED

AS FINANCE MINISTER AND YVON KIMPIOBI OR FELICIEN KIMWAY (BOTH PSA/

KAMITATU) BE GIVEN THE INFORMATION MINISTRY, NENDAKAYS SUGGESTED LIST

DOES NOT PROVIDE FOR CLEOPHAS KAMITATU, CURRENTLY INTERIOR MINISTER,

TO REMAIN IN THE GOVT.

2. IN APDITION TO THE USUAL MINISTRIES, THE LIST PROVIDES FOR SIX

MINISTERS OF STATE, EACH TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ONE OF THE SIX ORIGINAL

PROVINCIAL (PORTION GARBLED):

30: NENPAKA'S LIST IS HEAVILY WEIGHTED TOWARD THE MNC/L PARTY, WITH

FIVE MNC/L MINISTERS AND FIVE MNG/L. SECRETARIES OF STATE. IT ALSO

PROVIDES THREE MINISTRIES AND TWO SECRETARIES OF STATE FOR THE

ABAKO, TWO MINISTRIES EACH FOR THE CONAKAT AND THE BALUBAKAT AND ONE

MINISTRY AND TWO SECRETARIES OF STATE FOR THE REKO-CEREA GROUP •

ACCORDING TO NENDAKA, THE OBJECT OF HIS LIST IS TO COMPLETE THE CURRENT

DIVISIONS WITHIN THE OPPOSITION BY OFFERING SOMETHING TO AS MANY

MODERATE OPPOSITION LEADERS AS POSSIBLE, THUS SHORING. UP THE ADOULA

GOVT AND CONCURRENTLY ISOLATING PERSONS WHOM NENDAKA REGARDS AS

EXTREMISTS OR UNTRUSTWORTHY, SUCH AS ANTOINE KIWEWA, CHRISTOPHE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

SECRET

(When Filled 117)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/541,690

GBENYE, ANTOINE GIZENGA OR HIS FOLLOWERS AND CLEOPHAS KAMITATU.

NENDAKA HAS RECOMMENDED THAT ADOULA ANNOUNCE HIS PROJECTED GOVT AS

SOON AS POSSIBLE.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT.

* 5. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: MISSING PORTIONS WILL BE DISSEMINATED ONLY IF IT

MATERIALLY AFFECTS THE SENSE OF THIS REPORT.

IN 94631

PAGE

3

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

