# 176-10036-10088

## Page 1

176-10036-10088

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10088

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

" FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Indication of Planning

DATE: 11/20/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 11/62. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

799 and 294.

contains information

vil.

the transmission

or revelation

velation of which in any monne

any moner 1o an unduenoritade s

within the

She Espronago Lous, Tillo 1B, U.S.C Secr

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM/NORTH VIETNAM

REPORT.NO. TDCS =3/528,813

SUBJECT

INDICATION OF PLANNING FOR THE

REOCCUPATION OF NORTH VIETNAM

DATE DISTR.

20 NOVEMBER 1962

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

LATE OCTOBER 1962

PLACE &

DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (2 NOVEMBER 1962)

APPRAISAL 3

REFERENCES

IN

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8188

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

I.. ON 20 OCTOBER 1962 MINISTER FOR CIVIC ACTION NGO TRONG HIEU TOLD THREE OF

HIS ASSISTANIS THAT HE HAD BEEN DIRECTED TO ASSIST IN PLANNING FOR THE REOCCUPATION

OF NORIE VIETNAM. THE PLANNING WOULD PROGRESS THROUGH MANY STAGES, BUT THE TERE

ASSISTANTS WERE FIRST TO DRAFT A QUESTIONNAIRE THAT WAS TO BE FILLED OUT BY SELECTED

PEOPLE IN SOUTE VIETYAM. IN ADDITION TO THIS FORM, PEOPIE WHO FORMERLY LIVED IN

NORTH VIETNAM WOULD BE REQUIRED TO COMPLETE A SECOND QUESTIONNAIRE; WHICH WAS TO

PROVIDE INFORMATION ON ALL ACQUAINTANCES STILL KNOWN TO BE IN NORTH VIETNAM. THE

DRAFT QUESTIONNAIRE WAS LATTER SUBMITIED TO HIEU.

2.. FIELD COMMENT. FVS-8137, IDCS-3/527,406, REPORTED, IN PARAGRAPH 3,

NGO DINE NEU'S STATEMENT AT THE 5 OCTOBER MEETING OF THE INTERMINISTERIAL

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS THAT THE SELF-DEFENSE CORPS MUST BECOME PART OF A

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP

Excluded leom auromarr

downgrading and

declossificarrar

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

STATEI.INR

DIA ARMY/ACSI, MAVY

STATE/ DIR

SECDEF

NSA.

NIC

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

AID USIA, 0C1

ONE

OCA

ORR

0B 1

00

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

5-62

1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-Ö-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN

TDCS -3/528,813

PAGE

REARMED POPULACE, WHICH WOULD CARRY THE BATTLE FORWARD INTO LAOS, CAMBODIA, AND

NORTE VIBINAM. FVS-7934, TDCS-3/522,275, REPORTED THAT NEU, COMMENTING ON HIS

17 AUGUST REMARKS AT QUI NHON ABOUT A "MARCH TO THE NORTH" ASSERIED THAT THIS DID

NOT IMPLY A MILITARY MARCH, BUT WAS HIS CONCEPT THAT THE SUCCESS OF THE SOCIAL,

ECONOMIC, AND POLITICAL REVOLUTION IN SOUTE VIETNAM WOULD BE AN ATTRACTION FOR THE

PEOPLE IN THE NORTE AND WOULD GRADUALLY UNDERMINE THE COMMUNIST DICTATORSHIP TERE.

PARAGRAPE 4 OF FVS-7867, CS-3/522,559, REPORTING A NSW VERSION OF VIETNAMESE HISTORY

TO TIE IN THE STRATEGIC HAMIST PROCRAM WITH THE FLIGHT OF THE MOUNTAIN PEOPLE FROM

TELE HIGH PLATEAU OF CENTRAL VIBINAM, STATED THAT THE THIRD EPOCE OF VIEWAMESE

HISTORY WAS OCCURRING, AND THAT THE VIETNAMESE PROPIE WERE NOW RETURNING TOWARD

THE NORTH THROUGH THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLETS.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMAGY MAAG AID OTH FIELD STATION

CINCPAC: ARPAC PACFLI: PACAF.

TWO

END OF MESSAGE

C.O_N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

