# 176-10036-10101

## Page 1

176-10036-10101

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10101

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Report

DATE: 3/6/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 2/63-3/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

material contains information

he National Detonso of the United States

of which in any manner to an unauthoried berton

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATICIN CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

TELEGRAVE

5. Vetnam

beohibitid br

of tha Esprondas Laws, Tillo 18, U.S.C

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. DOS - 3/539,433

SUBJECT

VIEWS OF NGO DINH NHU ON THE WAR,

AMERICANS IN SOUTH VIETNAM, AND

CRITICS OF THE DIEM REGIME

DATE DISTR.

6 MARCH 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

FEBRUARY 1963.

REFERENCES

IN

VIETNAM, SAIGON (27 FEBRUARY 1:63)

SOURCE

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8566, FVS-8568

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

FROM NGO DINH NHU.

APPR.

NGO DINH NHƯ

1.

ON 27 FEBRUARY 1963 NGO DINH NHU SAID THAT HE ANTICIPATED A MAJOR

TURNING POINT IN THE WAR IN VIETNAM FY JULY 1963. HE SAID THAT TE VIETNAMESE

COMMUNISTS (VC) WOULD MAKE A VIGOROUS EFFORT TO BE SUPERIOR TO TIE GOVERNMENT

OF VIETNAM (GVN) BY MID-1963, AND THEREFORE COULD BE EXPECTED TO SURIKE IN

INCREASINGLY LARGER FORMATIONS. NHU CLAIMED THAT THE GVN HAD TO INVERTAKE

STRONG COUNTERMEASURES IO LESSEN THE IMPACT OF THE VC ACCIONS, AND TO DEFINE

MORE CLEARLY THE TREND OF THE WAR IN FAVOR OF THE CVN.

2. NHU ALSO COMMENTED THAT THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS, AND THE SCOPE OF

AMERICAN AID, IN SOUTH VIETNAM SHOULD BE REDUCED. NEU STATED THAT THE NUMBER

¡ CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP I

Encluded from automore

downgroding and

declossification

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMTIACS NAVY AIR JOS SECREE NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR 1 ORR: OBI 00

EXO

IDST

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

SAMITIZED

mel: 01197-5-4-6

162 1K6 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS:

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CO-N-F-T-D=E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/539,433

IN

PAGE TWO

Vi:

OF AMERICANS CONSTITUTED A VC PROPAGANDA ADVANTAGE, BUT WAS INSUFFICIENT TO

OVERCOME THE DISADVANTAGES AND VULNERABILITIES, AND THAT ALL AMERICANS NOT

ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL SHOULD BE WITHDRAWN. NEU FURTHER STATED THAT THE GVN

SHOULD SERK MEANS OF REDUCING THE REQUIREMENIS FOR AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSISIANCE,

SINCE SOUTH VIETNAM MUST ACHIEVE AS MUCH SELF-SUFFICIENCY AS POSSIBLE.

3. NHU SAID THAT HE HAD NO RESPECT FOR THE CRITICS OF THE REGIME, BOTE

IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND ABROAD, WEO, WHILE PRETENDING TO BE INTERESTED IN THE

WELFARE OF THE COUNTRY, ACTUALLY ONLY WANIED TO ADVANCE THEIR OWN PERSONAL

POWER AND SELF-INTEREST. NHU STATED THAT NEITHER HE, NOR OTHER VIETNAMESE

LEADERS, CONSIDERED THE PRESENT ADMINISTRATION, WHICH HE DESCRIBED AS A

TEMPORARY PRODUCT OF HISTORICAL NECESSITY, AN IDEAL SITUATION.

4. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID •USIA

2ND AIR DIVISION 9TH: FIELD STATION CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF PACFLT.

END OF MESSAGE

1e.

.....

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

