# 176-10037-10493

## Page 1

176-10037-10493

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10493

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Information Report Re: Comments

DATE : 1/28/1962

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General

11/13/61-11/31/61. Box 6.

---

## Page 2

EXEMPT NLK-81-213

TELEGRAM INEURMATION REPOST TELEGRAM.

•CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. SIRE

The ng the come in farine alein, the Ne got Do easier.

the: Unlted SM

He use sect

93. "añd: 794. 1ho" transn

ratibited: by

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATI

1983

(When Filled 17)

~ NOFORA/CONTINUED CONTROLI?

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. DCS +3/500;097M002

SUBJECT

COMMENTS "OF

THE DESIRABILITY, DATE DISTR. 20 JANUARY 1962=1

PROBLEMS AND CONSEQUENCES OF

COUP DICTAT

DATE OF

INFO.

JANUARY 1962

• TAYLOR.

RAYSEN

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

VIETNA, SMICON (26 JANUARY

1962BBK:)

APPRAISAL

4r•÷1:1

"THIS IS UNEVALUATED" INFORMATION: SOURCE.

REFERENCES

RETAIN-OR DESTROY 150

FIELD REPORT.NO. PiTyS 7006

DINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS" TENTATIVE:

SOURCE

MOM ON 25 JANUARY 1962)

OFPOS FION LEADER IMPRISONED

CERTAIN GENERAL "OFFICERS. HAVE CONSULTED WITHHIM

CATHE POSSIBILITY OF ATTEMPTING A COUP DICTATON FIELD COMMENT.

SO! WAR I ESUCHEA COUP WOULD 'ÉE TOUPREVENTCTHE COUNTRYLEROM.

FAGGINGTINTO PRE HANDS VOF THE TCOMMUMESTS COMMUNESTS A(VC)U TVSISO

WAS HIN AGRECENT WITH THESE GENERALS IN

152+3W 30 0324)

PRiNCIPLE ON THE NECESSITY FORIA COUMbaYA, BONWAS WORRIED BOTH

ASOUL THE METROD FORBE EMELOVED FAND TAR AUGNBROUENCESCI

THAT PURPAIN POETT POACHANG RELI ERCOSIOSOURS WWISHED SMOTMOONIORE

CONFIDENTIAL THE MOST

STATE::

ARMY LACS

TELEGRAM

NSA NIC LUSTA TOCH ONE LOCK LORROO/DIAL

INPORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

22603625

---

## Page 3

ON CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL AC

When

Filed in

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL FOCS 3/30

IDOS 23/500,09

18750

2-X8 21021

COUP WITH THE SUPPORT OF MILITAR CLEMENTS A HOWEVER, THESE GROUPS

WERE TOO DIVIDED TO BE SUCCESSFUL.

THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL

COUR WOULD BE ONE MOUNTED BY THE ARMY ITSELE CRIELD COMMENT.

MIDS 9 SPLAKING- IN GENERAL: TERMS,

LIN&SET TING UP SUCH

COUP TWO THINGS WERE IMPORTANTS TO AVOID BLOODSHED, AND TO

ORGANIZE AS SMALLIA FORCE AS POSSIBLE IN ORDER NOT TO ALLOW THEDE

SLAN OF ACTION TO BE EXPLOLTERTEY THE VENT

SOLUTION WOULD BE

FOR LEO AVNI SA

TO HAVENTHE GENERAL OFFICERS DECEARE THE WHOLENOF SOUTH VIETNAMO

CHIC A44.49

13 нали!

STATE TOF SETGET

PHER TRGOPS WOULD THEN-BES FORBIDDEN

AURIAOS LEADING TO SATERNALOUID ME ONAGDED.

02% $ї.

IN CASESTHE COUP WEPF

SUSCESSFI OGLACROCLUTINARY. COMMITTES

MPTERITENCEC

DO THREE GENERAL OFF FOGRO VOULENCH OUGE UNE ANDAY, GQVERNMENT BUSINESS

L WHTH THE WHELP OF TECHNICAL, ARVISONS ANDEOTALL THE SEGRETARLES OF

COME UNO WOULD HAVE REMAINED LENCE SPRINTHIS PERIOO

PEOPLE WOULD BE ABLENTO CHOOSES THE HAD OF THE -STATES

ICATION A DISSES

CONFIDENTIAL

NOT ORRY CONTINUED CONTROL

MONITY BON 1100

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION - DISS

29

18750

CONFIDENTIAL

(Whon. Pilled Iri)

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS -3/500,097

IN

PAGE

5• (FIELD COMMENT:

TALKED TO SOURCE IN GENERAL TERMS.

IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS WAS BECAUSE OF RETICENCE ON

IT

PART IN

RESPECT TO SOURCE, OR WHETHER

IS. NOT IN FACT INVOLVED IN THE

ALLEGED PLANNING OF GENERAL NGHIEM.)

6. FIELD: DISEM STATE MAẠG: USOM CINCPAC. PACFLT ARPAC: PAÇAF:

?'

"!:.

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION:

ROFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

---

