(176-10037-10018)

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10018

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck
> AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :

TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 10/31/1962
PAGES : 77
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Congo 10/62. Box 3.


aedet nbs ea aed

: hia! sha

_ UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE.
FOR POLITICAL AFFAIRS ©

WASHINGTON

October 31; 1962
MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT ,
Subject: Congo

: : “Developments since my report.to the President on
October 22, 1962.

1. Both Adoula and Tshombe have indicated willing-
ness to ignore the question of the Standstill Agreement
and proceed to the creation of Tripartite Observation
teams, This has, however, not. yet been done. Gardiner
is Proceeding to Elisabethville to expedite.

s been made in Commissions on the
gration of forces, oath taking,
-or division of foreign exchange

» “7° 2, No progress
vital questions of
amnesty, constituti
and revenues.

ae 3, The IF team to work out inte; ration of cur=
= rencies leaves to morrow for the Congo

4. We are announcing a $25 million contribution
towards the UN Import Program over the next six months.
The UK, Belgium, Italy, Germany and Japan are being pressed |
to contribute a matching amount. So far only the UK has “
-given any favorable indication. :

5. We have revealed the ‘Greene Plan for re the

ANC and we are engaged in talks calculated to bring about

. its general acceptance. Efforts are underway to firm up
US role and equipment US can furnish. :

SECRET



SECRET.

-2-

6. Senator Dodd has written a letter to Tshombe -
urging him to carry out the.Plan. He will, tomorrow,
-. ask Mr. Struelens to discontinue his activitiés here,
’ following which he will by letter urgé Tshombe along
similar lines.

7. Mobil Oil will refuse to pay Katangese taxes
. even at the expense of having to close down their
cae “- " operations and is encouraging other companies to do
7 the same. Belgium has promised EURRMEE with Belgian
oa companies involved.

: 8. We are seeking funds from MAP to finance a con-
tract with Air Panama to provide air transportation to .
the Congolese Army. A Presidential waiver will probably :
be required.

9. we hope to sign today an agreement with the GOC ©
to expand the PL 480 Program by sum of $2,500,000.

. 10. Arrangements have been made to reinforce UNOC
with 1800 Indonesian troops. Efforts are being made for °.
replacement of Ethiopian F-86's which haye been withdrawn,

<<. oa, ch.

George C. McGhee

SECRET ua : : . ec nea

