{176-10036-10086) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

; RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10085
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

TITLE : Vietnamese Communist Analysis of Efforts
DATE : 6/13/1962
PAGES : 2

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 6/62. Box 2



il NF IRMATION REPC aT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY . - RETAIN

Ls This materlat contains Information. affecting ths National Dotenta of the United” States within .tho mosning of tho Esplonage Law,
TH and 794, the Hrommission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person i prohibited by law,

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTRO:

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/' 513, 7166- KAYSEN

: — PETERSEN

suaJect VIETNAMESE COMMUNIST ANALYSIS OF EFFECTS DATE DISTR 13 JUNE 1962° —z SCHLESINGE
OF INCREASED US MILITARY. AID: TO : A Sein
GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM PRECEDENCE ROUTINE ' bend =

patcor 5 MAY 1962 R

_ EFERENCES. FILE Ned Tien

pace s VIETNAM, ‘SAIGON (20 MAY 1962)

SAUNDERS
FIELD REPORT NO, FVS-7504o— pHicetececSte
THIS SACO ATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

“DATE ACO-T? IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THIS “IS AN, ACCURATE
APPRAISAL!

SOURCE

.1. SET FORTH BELOW IS A‘TRANSLATION OF AN ANALYSIS OF THE: PRESENT SITUATION

IN SOUTH VIETNAM (SVN) .AS “VIEWED BY THE VIETNAMESE ‘COMMUNISTS (VC). ‘THE AUTHOR
OF THE ANALYSIS, .WHICH WAS WRITTEN IN EARLY MAY 1962, IS A°VC COMPANY COMMANDER
IN BA XUYEN PROVINCE. , ae
i 2, ‘THE REVOLUTION IN SVN IS PASSING NOW INTO THE PREPARATORY PHASE FOR
_A GENERAL OFFENSIVE 10 ‘LIBERATE IT (SVN) AND SET UP A PEOPLE'S UNION DEMOCRATIC”
GOVERNMENT, BUT AMERICAN’ INTERVENTION HAS POSTPONED THAT PHASE. THE US' HALF.
_ SUCCESS IS DUE 10.USE OF COUNTERGUERRILLA TACTICS, BUT MOPPING UP OPERATIONS WILL
LEAD TO DEFEAT BECAUSE (INDISCRIMINATE) KILLINGS WILL PUSH -THE PEOPLE TOWARD “THE

REVOLUTIONARY PARTY. IN THE FUTURE THE FRONT. FOR THE: LIBERATION OF SVN, WITH

~~ CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS



CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

FROM TE PEOPLE. °.ON THE MILTTARY sme mE US HAS USED ULTRA-MODERN vecEANZED
WEAPONS TO DESTROY, ARMED UNITS. ww ‘Tactics OF AREA PACIFICATION. .. THUS.” EARRASSED,
THE ve ARE NEVER SEOURE., ‘THEIR POLICIES MUST NOW AIM AT ‘TE INTERNAL SITUATION AND

* AP UPROLDING THE HARDSHIP-BEARING SPIRIT. . MEANWETLE, VC. ADMINISTRATIVE’ ORGANIZATIONS
“po Non YER EXIST, BUT THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN INSPIRED BY THE REVOLUTIONARY, SPIRIT OF
THE PARTY. ECONOMICALLY, VC AGRARIAN REFORMS HAVE SOLVED ‘THE LAND PROBLEM FOR THE
~ PEASANTS -AND-NOW CONSTITUTE THE FOOD SOURCE FOR. THE TROOPS AND CADRES. (SOURCE ,
| COMMENT, VC AGRARIAN REFORMS" REFER 10 THE DE FACTO. LAND EXPROPRIATIONS ‘CONDUCTED
“BY THE VIET. MINE DURING THE 1945-54 WAR,.)...FOREST.AND SEA RESOURCES. ARB: STILL
SECONDARY AND BRING IN ONLY. SOME SUPPORT IN THE FORM OF “TAXES. THE VC ARE MEETING
: GREAT DIFFICULTIES AT THE PRESENT <TIME,..BUT THE SVN PROBLEM WILL BE SOLVED BY
- penerarroNA POLITICS AND INTERNAL MILITARY. MEASURES, I.E. STRONG ATTACKS. (SOURCE
“COMMEND! ‘THE SOLUTION THROUGH’ "INTERNATIONAL FOLITICS" REFERS. 0 THE BELIEP THAT,
PF THE VC CAN MAINTAIN THE PRESEN RELATIVE STALEMATE LONG ESCO, THE US WILL, TIRE
OF THE SMUGGLE AND SEEK Soi KO OF NEVURALIBT SOWTION,) ;

Ae FIELD DISSEM, TATE © ARMY.. NAVY AIR USMACY MAAG AID CINGPAC PACAF
PAGEL” ’ ARPAC

ee CLATIFEATION = ONSEMINATTON CONTROLS

: oo CONTROL

