[176-10037-10120) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10120
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: Robert W. Komer
, AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 7

FROM :

TO:
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE : 12/00/1963
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : 4
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 430: Kennedy, Reactions to Death
Miscellaneous, 11/22/63-6/18/64. Box 5


“6 CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY : i as

Nat Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Expior

This information affecting the Nat
my ion er revelation of which inary meaner to an unauthorised Gerson is prohibited by law
(aa “whee =]
(When Filled In)
ALEXANDER
COUNTRY soviet BLOC / YUGOSLAVIA —BELK -~ report No. TDCS#3/566, 658
BRUBECK
SURECT COMMENTS OF YUGOSLAV. AND BLOC DIPLOMATS\SE - DATE DISTR. 6 vecemBeRy 1963
ON THE PROBABLE EFFECT OF KENNEDY ASSASGEMAN
SINATION ON-EAST@WEST RELATIONS —DUMGAN PRECeDENC!
: é —ECEHEL” /
DATEOF 25-29 NOVEMBER 1963 ST AgeFERENC! y
INFO. N W/ TH?
places Greece, ATHENS = (28 Novena 963)

DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 2 (THAT STATEMENTS ARE AC
THIS is UNEVALUATED inFoRMATION.

FIELD REPORTNO. EKA 4230
EINGIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTA’

SOURCE

FOLLOWING ARE EXAMPLES OF (PORTION GARBLED-BEING SERVICED)" BEING TAKEN BY SOVBLOC
AND YUGOSLAV DIPLOMATS IN GREEK CIRCLESs
1, ON 25 NOVEMBER 63, YUGOSLAV AMBASSADOR TO GREECE PEKO
. DAPCEVIC EXPRESSED HOPE THAT ASSASSINATION .OF KENNEDY WOULD NOT
CHANGE THE INTERNATIONAL ATMOSPHERE, ADDING THAT HE 1S CERTAIN
SOVIET. UNION, 1S WELL DISPOSED TO CONTINUE FRIENDLY CONTACTS WITH
WEST. DAPCEVIC SAID THERE HAS BEEN -"A GREAT PSYCHOLOGICAL CHANGE”
ON PART OF SOVIET PEOPLE IN PAST FEW YEARS FROM EARLIER ATTITUDE
THAT ALL AMERICANS AND PARTICULARLY AMERICAN GOVERNMENT ARE WAR

MONGERS TO CURRENT THINKING THAT AMERICANS, LIKE SOVIETS,

‘LASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET - —_NQ FOREIGN DISSEM
[oes [oteoer [wea [we [avo Justa oer [ove Doce Tow [Tex

as.

| 72S 1K © opso.ere PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

DEC - 6 1988 = '


CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISEM, frees

REALLY WANT PEACE, ZENITH OF “THIS CHANGE. CAME WHEN. UNITED STATES
ANNOUNCED IT-WAS WILLING TO SELL WHEAT TO -SOVJET UNION, ” ACCORDING
TO DAPCEVIC, THIS ANNOUNCEMENT. MADE “TREMENDOUS IMPACT ON :SOVIET

_ PEOPLE AND THEIR FEELING.IS NOW SO FAVORABLE TOWARD AMERICANS

THAT EVEN IF SOVIET LEADERSHIP WANTED TO REVERSE .THIS FEELING,
IT COULD NOT. EASILY, DO SO.

2. aN 26 NOVEMBER, CZECH FIRST. SECRETARY ‘VAKLAV SVESTKA
STATED hat rec, EMBASSY. IN ‘ATHENS ‘HAD ‘NOT YET RECE1 VED REACTION
OF PRAGUE TO THE ASSASSINATION, BUT FEELING OF CZECH EMBASSY
PEOPLE IN ATHENS WAS. THAT U'S POLICY WOULD NOT ‘CHANGE MATERIALLY.
SVEATKA EXPRESSED CONCERN ‘THAT ASSASSINATION WILL HAVE DELAYING

” AGTION ON IMPROVED. EAST-WEST RELATIONS: -. UNDER KENNEDY THINGS

WERE MOVING ‘QUICKLY TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING, AND CHANGE OF PRESIDENT

-NOW WILL OF. NECESSITY SLOW DOWN ‘THE COURSE OF EVENTS BECAUSE
"PERSONAL -FACTOR: 1S:NOW MISSING, KENNEDY HAD DEVELOPED CONTACTS

WITH SOVIET LEADERSHIP AND ACHIEVED ACCEPTANCE .OF SOVBLOC : (PORTION
GARGLEDY*POPULATIONS AS.'PEACE:LOVING MANs JOHNSON HAS :TO ESTABLISH

“THIS FOR HIMSELF’ NOW, AND IT WILL TAKE SOME TIME, ‘ a

3. ON-29 “NOVEMBER, SOVIET FURST SECRETARY VITALITY. NOVIKOV
STATED’ THAT SOWMETS DO.NOT EXPECT IMMEDIATE CHANGE IN.US FOREIGN

: -POL|CY. BECAUSE WITH ONLY ONE YEAR BEFORE ELECTIONS JOHNSON: AS

NON-ELECTED PRES (DENT 1s NOT LURELY TO. {CHANGE BASIC -KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION — OISSEMINATION CONTROTS

NO. FOREIGN DSSEM



CIASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSER

POLICIES, SOVIETS ARE ANXIOUS, HOWEVER, OVER FUTURE EAST-WEST

RELATIONS, ASSASSINATION CLEARLY SHOWS. RADICAL RIGHT-WING ELEMENTS
ARE STRONG, HAVE SUPPORTERS IN LOCAL POLICE AND POLITICAL. CIRCLES
AND ARE WILLING TO FIGHT’FOR THEIR IDEALS, IT ALSO REVEALS;
NOWIKOV SAID, STRENGTH OF REACTION’ IN.ANERICA’TO KENNEDY. POLICIES
SOVIET PEOPLE FEAR THAT RIGHT-WING WILL BE DOMINANT.

ON.29 NOVEMBER, RUMANIAN AMBASSADOR MIRCEA: BALANESCU SAID

HE WAS CERTAIN THERE WOULD BE NO CHANGE IN BLOC POLICY VISeA-VIS
WEST AND ANY “INCREASE IN TENS! ON WOULD BE RESULT OF CHANGED
AMERICAN POLICY.
“5 FIELD DISSEM STATE ARMY NAVY AIR EUCOM CINCNELM CINCSOUTH
(PERSONAL). i
6... “AyeAoQuanTERs COMMENT; MISSING paariaue WILL BE DISSEMINATED ONLY IF

THEY MATERIALLY AFFECT THE SENSE ‘OF THIS REPORT,

END _OF MESSAGE

HO FOREIGN DISSE

