# 176-10036-10069

## Page 1

176-10036-10069

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10069

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Intelligence Annex

DATE :

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

8/63-10/63. Box 1

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 60: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6b

30

ANNEX A

CIA Intelligence Annex

1. Travel to and from Cuba

Erazil

Chartered Cubana airlines flights between Cuba and

Brazil have become a major means of transporting non-Cuban

Latin Americans to and from Cuba. The fire such flights

'since late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cibans.

The first of the recent series -- on 25 July --

brought 7i Latin American passengers to Havana for the

26 July celebrations. The other four flights -- on 15,

22, 28 and 29 August -- transported over 200 Latin

Americans to Brazil from Havana. Some of the aircraft

involved returned to Cuba with smaller numbers ui passen-

gers. Many of the 200 iatin American passengers had

been delegates to the 26 July ceremonies, but others had

apparently been in Cuba for longer periods and some had

probably received training there. Of the passengers on

these four flights to Brazil, 75 were natives of

Caribbean area countries. Their circuitous travel through

Brazil was evidently designed to help conceal the fact

that they had been in cuba.

Costa Rica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengers on a

chartered Cubana plane which was turned back to Havana

at Grand Cayman on 11 July 1963. One was Luz Marina

Hernandez Salazar, the only Costa Rican woman known to

have been

sent to Cuba for training as a guerrilla

warfare instructor. She had been in Cuba since September

1962. The other Costa Rican passenger was Carlos Guillen,

former head of the Costa Rican Society of Friends of

the Cuban Revolution, who had been in Cuba since November

1962.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

139

SECRET

- 2 .

Ecuador

The CIA Station in Quito reports that the military

junta, which assumed power in Ecuador on 11 July, can

be expected to follow the guidance of the Embassy and

the Station in controlling travel to and from Cuba and

the Soviet bloc. The activities of Cuban subversives

in Ecuador, at least for the present, have been greatly

inhibited by the mass arrests of Communists and Pro-

Cubans and by the outlawing of the Cormunist Party by

the junta.

Honduras

It is Inported that the Honduran Communist Party

has issued orders to its members not to attempt to

travel to Cuud at the present time.

This action is

apparently the result of the increasing vigilarce of

the Honduran goverrment and the greater inplemertation

of stricter travel controls.

2. Movement of Cuban Propaganda

Guatemala

According to an unconfirmed report received in July,

a Bureau of Information of the Communist Party of

Guatemala is being formed in collaboration with Prensa

Latina and is to be managed clandestinely. It expects

to receive news by shortwave radio from Cuba and print

bulletins for distribution by radio stations. This may

indicate a pattern by which Prensa Latina will attempt

to distribute on a more clandestine basis in other areas

in Latin America..

Honduras

It was reliably reported that in mid-July 1963, a

small coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communist

propaganda on the northern coast of Honduras, the boxes

having been transferred at sea from a larger vessel. The

report has not been confirmed.

SECRET

an 4

---

## Page 4

tole

SECRET

- 3 -

3.

Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Argentina

Extremist members of the Peronist Party, apparently

under the leadership of such figures as Hector Villalon

and John William Cooke, were repoited to be receiving

encourngement and promises of large sums of money from

Cuba in support of their efforts to train and organize

subversive groups in Argentina. Villalon has stated

that his plan cails for expanding and accellerating

subversive activities in Argentina culminating in a

complete take over within two years. There is no indica-

tion that Peron himeelf has agreed to this plan. It has

been reporter that leaders of the Communist Party of

Argentina have been greatly annoyed by the tendency of

the Castro regime to support the revolutionary Peronists

without having consulted the Comunist Party of Argentina.

It is reported that the so-called Army of lational

Liberation (ANL) of Argentina, which is a relatively

small Castroist organization directed from Cuba by

John William Cooke, has in recent weeks been negotiating

for the purchase of arms and has been offered submachine

guns, bazookas and other weapons by two or three private

suppliers.

It was reported, however, that the ANL was

having difficulty getting enough dollars from Cuba to

make significant purchases possible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Relations on 23

August protested formally to the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires

in La Paz against the Cuban Embassy support to the miners

during the recent crisis.

Subsequently, however, foreign

Minister Fellman informed the Cuban Chargé that he need

not fear that the Government of Bolivia would break

diplomatic relations with Cuba. There has, in fact, been

no hard information linking the Cuban Embassy with the

present mining crisis in spite of some unconfirmed

reports of Cuban support.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

6b

SECRET

-4 .

Brazil

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul Roa Kouri, is

reported to have attempted to encourage peasant

league

leader Francisco Julio to revitalize the leagues in

northern Brazil. According to some reports efforts are

being made to unify the leadership and bring dissident

elements under the general direction of juliao. Other

reports indicate thit, although the Cuban Embassy is

providing guidance and possibly financial support to the

movement, it had not yet resolved the internal dissension

in the leagues.

Colombia

From Colembia reports have been received of incre-

asing Cubail assistarce, primarily in the forn of training

courses by instructors

who have been trained in Cuba,

to the Worier-Studen=-Feasant Movement (MOEC). A small

guerrilla band encountered by the Colombian airy in

July 1953 was broken up when five members of the band

were killed and two others captured. A smali quantity

of arms and a considerable amount of books and pamphlets

on revolutionary warfare, photographs of Fidel Castro,

Camil, Cienfuegos and Mao Tse-tung, and bulletins of

the MOEC were found at the camp site. Recent reports

have indicated an increase in the terrorist efforts of

the MOEC and increased promises of assistance from Che

Guevara with regard to the training of additional MOEC

members.

Costa Rica

There have been a number of unconfirmed reports

alleging small-scale training of revolutionaries on

Costa Rican territory for guerrilla activity in

Nicaragua.

For example, in mid-July an increased number

of guerrillas were reportedly being trained in Costa Rica

by Adolfo Garcia Barberena, well-known Nicaraguan

revolutionary leader and member of the FLN (National

Liberation Front -- a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported,

SECRET

---

## Page 6

bobo

34

SECRET

= 5 =

anti-Nicaragua revolutionary group). In early August,

Alberto Serrato, leader of the FLN in Costa Rica,

(reportedly left with a group of Nicaraguans for the

Costa Rican-Nicaraguan border. Another report indicated

that Hector Bogantes Zanora, Costa Rican agitator was

Bave left

supposed to have left San Jose in mid-August for the

Nicaraguan border to supervise the passage of Nicaraguan

guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragla. Bogantes,

who recently returned from attending the May Day celebra-

tions in Cuba, is said to have been assigned this

responsibility by the Costa Rican Communist Party.

So far as we know, the GON, which is normally well-

informed and highly sensitive to such activities on its

borders, has not made any complaints or otherwise signified

concern or awareness of these reported activities.

Fanduras

The Honduran ammed forces began to move against a

group of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against the

Nicaraguan Government and active in the vicinity of the

Nicaraguan-Honduran border. The Nicaraguan National Guard

has been conducting operations on its side of the border

against the insurgents since July. The dense jungle and

difficult terrain, however, will impede the efforts of

both forces to eliminate the guerrillas.

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and

conflicting. It is apparently composed of members of the

National Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-dominated

and Cuban-supported revolutionary organization active

primarily in Honduras and Nicaragua since the fall of

1962. The strength of the force is not known.

Nicaragua

A captured guerrilla of the FLN (National Liberation

Front - a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported, anti-

Nicaraguan group) confessed that he was a member of a

group of 46 who entered Nicaragua from Honduras on 22 July.

SECRET

-

---

## Page 7

30

SECRET

-6 -

He said that their mission was to establish a base camp

in the Isabella mountains; Department of Jinotega, in

order to indoctrinate the peasants and to train them in

guerrilla tactics. He admitted that he had received six

months' guerrilla warfare training in Cuba and that other

FLN leaders had received similar training. He also said

that the FLN training camp in Honduras was near El Lagarto,

on the Patuca River.

4. Iransfer of Funds

British Guiana

In British Guiana, Guiana Import-Export Corporation

• (Gimpex) received a one million dollar advance payment

deposited by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation fri goods to

be delivered to Cuba in the fusure. Gimpex has, in turn,

loaned this money to the Government of British Guiana.

Cheddi Jagan's People's Progressive Party is the major

stockholder in Gimpex.

Moharmed Kassim, Manager of Gimpex,

has indicated that Gimpex will be able to secure additional

loans from Cuba in amounts sufficient to tide the jagan

government over any foreseeable crisis. It wis also

reported that Gimpex plans to buy aircraft, spare parts

and other machinery in the United States for reshipment

to cuba.

General

Reports continue to be received from many places

indicating that the suitcase full of currency is still one

of the most conmon methods used by the Cubans for trans-

nitting funds for use in supporting subversive activities

throughout the hemisphere. Instances where such funds

have been confiscated by the police have occurred recently

in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

SECRET

---

