# 176-10036-10018

## Page 1

176-10036-10018)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10018

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Aspect of Katangan Political Attitudes

DATE: 10/5/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

---

## Page 2

UpHELD N+K-01-031-6-1-011406

17

TELEGRAM INTORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

contains information aflecting

National Defense of tho

United Slates within

793 and 794, tho

transmission or revelation of which

moaning

any. manner 10 an unauthorrsed

prohibited

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

CONFIDENTIAL:

(When Miled 196)

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

the tras

nage. Laws, Tolle 10U15.C Secr

FILE

SUBJECT

ASPECTS OF KATANGAN POLITICAL ATTITUDES

AS OF EARLY 5 OCTOBER

BUNGAN

KAYSEN

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/524,506ILDUFF

-PETERSEN

DATE DISTR. 5 OCTOBER

1962CHLESINGER

-

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL 2

REFERENCES

4-5 OCTOBER 1962

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

ELISABETHVILLE (5 OCTOBER 1962)

_FOR ESTAL

TN° 9345

T: 93418%

_ KOME

FIELO REPORT NO. ACE 780 - SAUNDERS

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

RETAIN OR DESTROY

KATANGA PROVINCIAL

- 1. TSHOMBE PERSONALLY IS READY TO ACCEPT RECONCILIATION BUT

HAS ALLOWED HIS EUROPEAN ADVISORS TO PERSUADE HIM TO INSIST ON

KATANGAN EXPERTS PARTICIPATING IN DISCUSSIONS OF

A FEDERAL CONSTITUTION. PROFESSOR RENE CLEMENS IS PRESSING ON

TSHOMBE HIS VIEW THAT AGREEMENT OF A FEDERAL CONSTITUTION MUST

PRECEED ANY AGREEMENT BY THE MIXED COMMISSIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE

RECONCILIATION PLAN. KATANGANS BELIEVE A DRAFT CONSTITUTION,

WHICH RESEMBLES THE FUNDAMENTAL LAW AND DOES NOT FOLLOW THE UN

PLAN, HAS ALREADY BEEN COMPLETED IN LEOPOLDVILLE.

2. TSHOMBE AND HIS MINISTERS WERE STRONGLY IMPRESSED BY WHAT

IHEY REGARD AS IHE CONGO NATIONAL ARMY COUP DE FORCE IN SOUTH

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONEIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CROUP I

Encluded from aurom

downgrading

destosficars

STATE/ INR

DIA

ARMY/ACSI NAVYAIR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI | ONE OCR

ORR

OB1

00

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1KO OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20'

---

## Page 3

17

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled 176)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/524,506

IN 34512

PAGE 2

PAGE

KASAÏ. . THEY ARE NOW WORRIED FOR THEIR OWN SKINS AND NO LONGER

SPEND THEIR NIGHTS IN ELISABETHVILLE. TSHOMBE HAS HAD A SPECIAL

ROAD TO KIPUSHI AND INTO THE BUSH PREPARED IN CASE THE UN SHOULD

TRY TO ARREST HIM AND HE MUST SUDDENLY LEAVE ELISABETHVILLE.

•3. KATANGAN LEADERS PROFESS TO ACTUALLY BELIEVE UNOC CHIEF

ROBERT GARDINER: LEFT ELISABETHVILLE 4 OCTOBER MORE OR LESS

CONVINCED TSHOMBE WANTS RECONCILIATION. THEY BELIEVE GARDINER

WILL SEEK TO PERSUADE/ADOULA TO BE MORE

SENTRAL CONGDA TE BE MORE MODERATE IN HIS DEMANDS

ON KATANGA.

4. BOTH TSHÖMBE AND HIS ADVISORS ARE PLEASED AND FLATTERED

BY UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE GEORGE MCGHEE'S VISIT TO ELISABETHVILLE

AND ARE DETERMINED TO GIV: HIM A GOOD RECEFTION. IT IS REPORTED

GOVERNMENT OF KATANGA (GOK)

WITHIN THE / THAT MCGHEE HAS ALREADY ASKED TSHOMBE NOT, DELAY

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UN PLAN; IF HE DOES DELAY, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT

WILL SUPPORT ECONOMIC PRESSURES AGAINST KATANGA.

5.. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT.

nis!

COMLIESVSONI

CONFIDENTIAL

s2i)3

Fid:

.... i

.!1.

LIFE

END Of MESSAGE

"Atr

CLASSIFICATION- DISSEMINATION.CONTROLS

Cries": NO FOREIGN DISSEM::

---

