(176-10036-10117|

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992|_

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10117
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE : 7/18/1963
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam,7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2



DOWNERADED “NLK~'

See SANITIZED ibaa

APPRAISAL
THIS 15° UNEVALUATED INFORMAT.
: aaa

DUONG. VAN, MINE PROBABLY HOLDS, 7

nS ates

OWN “T' ESGRUNTLED | WI

ete Ra

SUMMA’

RY, ON iy SUL 1963. MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN"
Cvo! OF: MERE SIT SLBOWEES JHY INE BAODH! 212" THEA
ETT AR abv son paesibeht = CRITICIZED THE PRESIDENT, SAID. -

Xe ch CD-ritvl Gt IE WALA MYL IME DIM XCM? IRE oy,

THA ABE bet THE COpPORT OF THE EOPLE, AND ADVOCATED A CHANG IN
3° £ ee sazife le Wid ErrAal svi i

THE REGIM

On Ob Olga 2 1b
Sa ASSERTED, THAT: NGO-DINH  NHU Coup NOT TAKE
~G6V ven gNMENT
yisK MME PE @vID: 184
aki i) #u0u Coma oF THE tet ‘ivi ON

i 4 t AUIDZLE AHED
BAERAD MINH MADE: THe” PoLLowING STAT
SOLE CHYWGED CO! CA -RECONT MG COUALMCED
A... RES | GENT D EM was "eh it SO COMPLETELY,: THAT
ES AMET FAH LAE LIWE “LO M¥Ae CHVMGED:
R POSSIBLE TO RE SON rik HIM, IN THE EARLY DAY:
SMiMe Hipzere ba WHO 94-1820 HE WWD T1021 CONDM

OF THE PEOPLE. ANQ WAS VERY POPULAR THROUGHOUT
BLONS HUOCH¥ND DL ANS GOAEYANED,

|GLASSIFIGATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS" a
GN DEBSEN/NO ‘DIS ssiM ABROAD,

ACH ALLE BHE
H VLETNA\



‘ud SIVAD Ob bs, 3h
EWlARiks “ONY Nit eae HE “SAID: Tat THE ‘GOUNTRY WAS SuIDeD ‘By



GR. E Tn = NO" “FOREIGN. DISK

EA PROPER ATMOSPHERE so Taat ITS ‘LEAVES, iE. , “THE PEOPLE, < CAN

| THO HAS BEEN’ WANTING TO: RESIGN: BUT WAS ‘Not’ "EVEN
TEED AT

FOREIGN: =DISSEM/NO-DI

axe Baan iseeIO%



ANSURGENTS, THE WINNING.OF “THE WAR ‘AGAINST THE VC: LS: NOT.-SIMPLY. A~

; WONG? TAMJOr ae" te Wi?

3 ; 6. PAGFLT AARP Ae
y eyoDEd Vindjuneys Bo Le

12 FIKE v Acne rece?

