{176-10036-10104| [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10104 as
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
a TO:

TITLE : CIA Information Report
DATE : 6/19/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
. CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam,6/63. Box 2


: DAILTH, MA DEIN RBS I TL5

* CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

cling the National Delente of the United. Stater within tho meening of the E:ponage Lew, Title 18, U.S.C Sect
tion of which in any manner 10 an unauthorited perion ik prohibiled by tow.

Toit material contains _intorm
193 and 794, the Wansmission or

: oh CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS :
“CONFIDENTIAL a
(When Filted inp el fall! FP My A \ Sct

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS - -3/550,953
SUBJECT GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM WHITE PAPER ON THE DATE DISTR. 19 JUNE 1963
BUDDHIST ISSUE AND AMERICAN PRESENCE AND
POLICY IN SOUTH VIETNAM PRECEDENCE PRIORITY
DATE OF REFERENCES IN
nro. «12-17 vune 1963 i 62883
PLACES vieTNAM, SAIGON (17 uuNE 196°
pare ace: ene (17 963) :
APPRAISAL 3 Frei report no. FYS 9171

THIS 1S TNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
+ SOURCE

1, ON 17 JUNE 1963 GENE GREGORY OF THE TIMES OF V1ETNAM SAID
: “THAT. HE HAD JUST RETUNED FROM DALAT WHERE HE HAD SPENT FIVE

DAYS WORKING ON A WHITE PAPER SETTING FORTH THE GOVERNMENT
: OF VIETNAM POSITON NOT ONLY ON THE BUDDHIST !SSUE BUT ALSO
i ON THE ENTIRE QUESTION OF AMERICAN PRESENCE AND POLICY IN
SOUTH VIETNAM. GREGORY SAID THAT MADAME NGO DINH NHU HAD :
ASKED HIM TO. PREPARE THE PAPER AND, iN FACT, HE LIVED 1N THE NHU
i VILLA IN DALAT WHILE HE WORKED ON IT.
: 26 GREGORY SAID THAT ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL POINTS WHICH MADAME

“he Fag — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL FIC nicer
‘ Davareviwn [ora [awmy/acst] wave | are [oes | _ Ht nsa [ wie | aro [usta] ocr | one | ocr | one | oor | 00 |.

INFORMATION REPORT
Smet VOD MK O8(97 5752-6

trad

FORM 1Kq_ OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. ce zt


CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS,

Co Tt

Tocs _ 3/550,953.

NHU SUGGESTED BE INCLUDED IN THE PAPER WAS A COMPARISON OF SOUTH VIETNAM
WITH THE UNITED STATES WHERE GANGSTERISM AND RACE RIOTS EXISTED, a
THE CONCLUSION BEING THAT THE DIEM REGIME WAS NOT REALLY TOO BAD
AFTER ALL. /

3. GREGORY STATED THAT THE WHITE PAPER CONSISTED oF OVER TWENTY
PAGES, WAS NOT FOR LOCAL CONSUMPTION, BUT WILL BE DISTRIBUTED
INTERNATIONALLY, DIRECTED PRIMARILY AT THE UNITED STATES BUT POSSIBLY’
|) ALSO FRANCE AND ENGLAND.

4, FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM USIS
| QTH FLD. STA. 2ND AIR DIV, CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE ..
CLASSIFICATION ~ DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FORM It USE PREVIOUS
63 MONS

a CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

i oeelger
