{176-10036-10094) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM.
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA ie
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10094.
- RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :

TO:
TITLE : Ngo Dinh Nhu's Statement on Withdrawal of
DATE : 4/20/1963
: PAGES : 4
4 SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

icting the National Dofense of the Unite:
fion of which in any manner to an wneul

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

CONFIDENTIAL - ig fd

les within the moaning of the Expionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Sect,

This material contains informatio:
‘person is prohibited. by lew.

793 and 794, the traniminion or

(hen Filled Iny

COUNTRY | SOUTH VIETNAM : REPORT NO. TOCS+3/544,531

SUBJECT NGO DINH NHU?S “STATEMENTS ON WITHDRAWAL DATE DISTR, 20 APRIL 1963
OF AMERICAN AID
PRECEDENCE PRI OR Ty

DATE OF LATE MARCH@EARLY APRIL 1963 REFERENCES. IN 21856
INFO, :
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (1 ano 12 aprte 1963)
DATE ACO. a
APPRAISAL SEE PARAGRAPH 7 FIELD REPORT NO. rvs 8804
THis 1s; UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS A! u a
SOURCE

1, -AT THE 5 APRIL MEETING OF THE INTERMINISTERIAL’ COMMITTEE
ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS, NGO DINH NHU MADE THE FOLLOWING REMARKS CON-

CERNING AMERICAN FOREIGN AID:

A, -THE AMERICANS HAVE STATED THAT THEY ARE GOING To REVISE
THEIR POLICY ON FOREIGN AID TO SOUTH VIETNAM; WE WIEL REVISE OUR
POLICY ON RECEIVING SUCH AID, WE MUST MARCH TOWARD THE “ULTIMATE
OBJECTIVE OF TERMINATING AMERICAN AID'’AND THE PEOPLE SHOULD LEARN
TO DO WITHOUT SUCH ASSISTANCE, :

B. AMERICAN AID‘SHOULD BE PLACED IN NTE FOLLOWING CATE-

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

[ CONFIDENTIAL

(15-20)

5G 1Kq_ OBSOLETE Previous EDITIONS.


CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS,

CONFIDENTIAL rontioll BISSEG ie -3/5¥4, 531

GORLES OF PRIORITY. FIRST, AID WHICH WE MUST CONTINUE TO RECEIVE
INDEFINITELY, SPECIFICALLY THE MEANS oF PRODUCTION; WE WILL NoT SEEK
A REDUCTION IN THIS CATEGORY, NOR WILL WE REQUEST AN INCREASE. SECOND
AID WHICH CAN BE EVENTUALLY PHASED OUT. ‘THIRD, AID WHICH CAN BE -

TEMINATED IMMEDIATELY,

C. ALL SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED ON THE ABOVE LIST OF
PRIORITIES BUT IT SHOULD ALSO BE MADE CLEAR THAT THIS POLICY 1S NOT
INTENDED TO BE ANTIFOREIGN, FOREIGN AID WILL ‘PROVIDE WITH THE MEANS
OF PRODUCTION SO THAT WE CAN EVENTUALLY DO WITHOUT CONSUMER GOODS
ASSISTANCE. WHETHER WE LIKE IT OR NOT, FOREIGN AID WILL CEASE
SOONER OR LATER, AND SO WE MUST STRIVE TO BECOME SELF-SUFFICIENT.
MEANWHILE WE MUST MAKE PROPER USE OF THE AID WE RECEIVE.

2. DURING THE LAST WEEK OF MARCH 1963 THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR ON
ORDERS FROM NHU, ISSUED TO ALL PROVINCE CHIEFS INSTRUCTIONS To
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO START.PRODUCING: WEAPONS, LAND MINES AND AMMUNITION
IN HOME WORK SHOPS WITH THE AIM OF ATTAINING A DEGREE OF SELF-SUFFICIENCY.

3. ON ABOUT 5 APRIL PHAM DUC TIEN, CHIEF OF CIVIC ACTION IN PHUOC
TUY PROVINCE, ATTENDED A CONFERENCE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS IN BINH TUY
PROVINCE AT WHICH NGO DINH NHU SAID THAT THERE WERE TOO MANY AMERICAN
ADVISORS IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND THAT 80TH THE NUMBER OF THESE ADVISORS
AND THE AMOUNT OF AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE REDUCED.

4. AT A MEETING OF VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF) OFFICERS ON 19

CLASSIFICATION— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL HG PonsiGN DISSEM


a AISNE (| Tocs -3/544,531

APRIL 1963, VNAF COMMANDER COLONEL HUYNH HUU HIEN SAID THAT NHU HAD
INSTRUCTED HIGH-RANKING GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) OFFICIALS AT AS
APRIL MEETING To PREPARE FOR A COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AID;
NHU SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES WAS USING AID AS A MEANS OF PRESSURING
THE GVN AND WAS IMPINGING ON GVN SOVEREIGNTY. AS AN EXAMPLE OF THE
USE OF AMERICAN AID TO PRESSURE A RECIPIENT COUNTRY, HIEN CITED THE
CUTOFF OF DELIVERIES OF GASOLINE TO.THE ROYAL THAI AIR FORCE WHEN THE
THAI GOVERNMENT REFUSED TO AGREE To SOME (UNSPECIFIED) POINT;

HIEN SAID THAT THE DELIVERY OF GASOLINE RECOMMENCED ONLY AFTER STRONG
THAI GOVERNMENT PROTESTATIONS. (FIELD COHMENT. PRESUMABLY HIEN
REFERS To THE REDUCTION AND EVENTUAL TERMINATION BY: THE END OF

FISCAL YEAR 1965 OF U.S. SUPPORT OF MILITARY AID PROGRAM POL AND
MEDICAL SUPPLIES TO THE THAI GOVERNMENT, )

5. AFTER THE MEETING SEVERAL VNAF OFFICERS, INCLUDING MAJOR DANG
DINH LINH, DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR MATERIAL, MAJOR TRAN DO CUNG,
ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF OF STAFF, AND CAPTAIN HA DUONG DOAN, DEPUTY CHIEF
OF STAFF FOR BUDGET AND FINANCE, AGREED THAT THE VNAF WOULD BE UNABLE

TO CONTINUE OPERATIONS WITHOUT AMERICAN SUPPORT AND THAT, IN FACT,
ANY WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN SUPPORT WOULD. RESULT..IN COLLAPSE-OF THE
REGIME. ; a : af

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE. ARMY NAVY AFR USMACV MAAG USOM. USS 9TH
FIELD STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINCPAC PACAF ARPAC. PACFLT..

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

HO) FOREIGN DISSEM


CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

[CONFIDENTIAL cag GASSER rosso Be

(When Filled In) PAGE

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL _ Mey
