# 176-10038-10032

## Page 1

176-10038-10032

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10038-10032

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Embtel 660 (Saigon) Re: Task Force on Vietnam

DATE : 11/16/1961

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : NSF: Countries: Vietnam, General, 11/16/61-11/17/61, box 195. Box 8

---

## Page 2

INCOMING TELEGRAM

SANITIZEO VERSIO

Department of States t?

N6X-75-92

3

43

Action

FE

Info

SS

G

SP

L

H

•SO

EUR

AID

PX

IOP

INR

CIA

OSD

ARMY

AIR

NAVY

O..

A

DC

RMR

Control:

Rec'd:

9439

NOV

16, 1961

3:50

"a.m.

- FROM:

SAIGON

TO:

NO:

Secretary of State

660, NOVEMBER 116, 11: AM:

019

•ACTION DEPARTMENT: 668, INFORMATION CINCPAC POLAD 268=

CLIMIT DISTRIBUTIONDE

...

TASK FORCE. VN

НЕОО ТИЛИВИТ 200О614 20801А10 010 1111

SL. OPPORTUNITIES EOR 1EXPLOITATION OF NEW MANAGEMENT:OF NÄTIONAL

•POLICEL AND SECURITYISERVEGEE COLONEL NGUYEN-VAN-Y VICE GENERAL

NGUYEN VAN LA) FALLINTO TWO/GENERÄL FIELDS. INTELLiGENCE AND

•NATIONAL POLN GÉ:

5506

SECRET

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

---

## Page 3

:3."

..w:

SECRET

-2- 66D, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAIGON A T

#1*3

37; 11

23

FIS

7390

730

125

• 305

=T.

÷ 3.

Mae: 19M

.."

3=E USOMEQUALLY DETERMINED PROSECUTE: POTENT I'AL-FOR* GREATER

COLL ON: FOR DEVELOPMENTSOF OF NATIONAL POLICE? STRUCTURE WITH

REGULAR INVESTIGATORY FUNCTIONS OF SÜRETE STO PROVIDES 1CE MED

ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMON EFFECTIVE NATIONAL BÄSIS TO BÖLSTER MY!

GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY: THROUGHOUT COUNTRY, AND THUS CONTRIBUTEOM

TO CONTRBUTION CRIME -- DISORDER, OVERT COMMUNIST ACTION, ETC.

THIS WOULD: COMPRISE •OVER-ALL DEVELOPMENT USOM POLICE, SURETE AND

RELATED INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICES TO INCLUDE:

CONSOLIDATION: OF CIVIL POLICE FUNCTIONS UNDER THE SECRETARY

OF: STATE FOR: INTERIOR.

BrA DELINEATION. OFFFUNCTIONS AS THEY PERTAIN TO?THE SEPARATE

ELEMENTS OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.

CHO THE ADOPTION OF A REALISTIC TRAINING PROGRAM, GEARED

TO AN APPROPRIATE PROGRAM OF COMMODITY PROCUREMENT:

SCIA,3102

247.

"THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN EFFECTIVE PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE:

USOM ENVISIONS DEVELOPMENT BASED UPON MUTUAL AGREEMENT AND

UPON RECIPIENTS'S ABILITY TO ABSORB INTRODUCTION OF NEW

CONCEPTS

Sosa

4. THIS BEING MADE TASK FORCE MATTER DUE MY CONVICTION IT IS

SUBSTANTIAL WE_MOVE-FORWARD-IN BOTH ABOVE FIELDS TO MAXIMUM

DEGREE: POSSIBLE,

TAKING. FULL ADVANTAGE OF

WHAT APPARENTLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

-3 - 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAIGON.

1S REAL NEW BREAK IN SITUATION. URGE FULLEST SUPPORT FROM TASK

FORCE LEVEL AND ABOVE OF THESE SUGGESTIONS FOR ACTIVITY BY

CAS AND USOM, ÄND SUPPORT IN WASHINGTON FOR NECESSARY PERSONNEL

AND BUDGET ADDITIONS WHICH MAY BE INVOLVED.

NOLT ING

MM

SECRET

---

