[176-10036-10015) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM.
IDENTIFICATION FORM.

AGENCY : NARA :
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10015
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Katanga Military Forces
DATE : 8/11/1962
PAGES : 11
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW ; 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
“COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1


[oer NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE acencviET Al AWN B On ioe
Information affecting the Nationa! Defense of Stator: within the moaning OR. DESTROY
lation or revelation of which in any .manner to Perron Is prohibited by, law. tie . Mi.

os :

CLASSIFICATION — = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

(When Filled In)
Country REPUBLIC OF TE oman REPORT NO. TDCS-3/519,291”
SUBJECT KATANGA MILITARY FORCES STRENGTH AND .. DATE Distr, 11 AUGUST: 1962 KILDUFF
TACTICAL PLANS IN CASE OF RENEWED. HOSTILITIES —PETERSEN ~
“ __SCHLESINGE
PRECEDENCE ROUT INE
Heraee / LPAYLOR
pateor 30 vury - 4 aucust 1962 ” REFERENCES SN Uf ELK
INFO. : T0cs=3/517,080 Seanson lil
LACI REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO ISABETHVIL! —-JOH}
DATE AGO. » Bab kuaust t§62) _-KLEIN
APPRAISAL 3 (EXCEPT AS INDICATED) FIELD REPORTNO. ace-706  —-KOMER |
THIS. 1s UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE NIN
SOURCE |

1. UNIFORMED AFRICAN SOLDIERS ACTUALLY TRAINED AND EQUIPPED.

FOR COMBAT ano ORGANIZED INTO REGULAR KATANGA ARMY UNITS NUMBER LESS
THAN 12, 000. 99000" OF THESE HAVE ARMS BUT AT PRESENT ARE NOT ISSUED °

foe 3/517,

, WITH AMMUN IT LON (FteLo COMMENT : ACE 673/FROM THER SOURCES REPORTED :

yf TOTAL OF (25,000 “AFRICANS ON THE ARMY PAYROLL. THIS NUMBER

BAYEKES, IN. “SOUTH CENTRAL A
EACTION? FUNDER . CHIEF KASONGO ee aM THE KAMINA AREA AND THE

: Baneveas IN NORTH KATANGA ‘ALL. oF, WHOM ARE LOYAL TO THE KATANGA, -

S PRESUMABLY. INCLUDES SEMI-TRAINED IRREGULARS, THE SO-CALLED RURAL
MILITIA: a MEMBERS oF TRIBAL, MILITARY FORCES SUCH AS THE WARL | KE

T KATANGA, THE DISSIDENT BALUBAKAT

GOVERNMENT (cox) a ROMINALLY INTEGRATED IN THE ARMY OR ARE

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

cog NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL



C , -

‘CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

cme . NOFORW CONTINUED CONTROL! oy

. AVAILABLE - FOR MILITARY- TYPE DUTY),

Qe. OF THE: 12,000 A as OF 908 ARE P. RACOMMANDOS * INCLUDIN :
RECRUITS NOW IN TRAINING. “PARACOMMANDO UNITS OF 18-40 MEN EACH “ARE
PRESENTLY STATIONED IN KAMBOVE, KAPANGA AND KABONGO. LARGER PARA-
COMMANDO UNITS “ARE LOCATED NEAR ELISABETHVILLE AT KEYBERG CAMP
SOUTHEAST OF KENYA AND KATUBA NATIVE COMMUNES, KIPUSHI, LUENA AND
“KONGOLO. JADOTVILLE AND KOLWEZ I ALSO HAVE LARGE PARACOMMANDO FORCES
IN AND ‘OUTSIDE 1 THE CITIES. OPPOSITE THE OUTER UN PERIMETER OF

ELISABETHVILLE AND ALONG THE ROAD thee JADOTVILLE, SMALL WELL-ARMED
PARACOMMANDO UNITS EQUIPPED WITH LAND ROVER JEEPS ARE IN THE BUSH
CONSTANTLY ON ALERT. . THEIR | POSITIONS ARE NOT VISIBLE FROM THE ROAD
AND DURING TROOP. AND, TRANSPORT MOVEMENTS THEY AVOID ALL MAIN. ROADS «
THE MAIN PARACOMMANDO TRAINING CENTER Is Now AT RUWE, 5-' <6 KILOMETERS
NORTH OF KOLWEZI.,: HERE WHAT 1S CALLED "PRELIMINARY TRAINING" IS
GIVEN, PART OF THE TRAINEES ARE EVENTUALLY SELECTED TO BE MEMBERS

OF THE "PARACOMMANDO ELITE" WHICH?.1S. IMMEDIATELY READY. .£OR. COMBAT =

DUTY, THE ELITE Now INCLUDES. ONLY 150 AFRICANS ALL OF, WHOM HAVE

BEEN INTENS I VELY TRAINED, ALSO IN THE KOLWEZI AREA, IN UNCONVENT ONAL, yp
WARFARE TACTICS BY EUROPEAN MERCENARY INSTRUCTOR-SPECIALISTS,

AFTER THIS TRAINING THEY: ARE ‘DISPERSED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AND

PosteD IN SMALL NUMBERS TO VARIOUS UNITS IN ORDER. TO STRENGTHEN

‘THEM, THEY ARE “REGARDED AS -UNUSUALLY;2E F;

“CONFIDENTIAL *



J “CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS: : : 7
cere NOFONCONTMED con ="2"°"9"— fs"

‘PRELIMINARY TRAINEES ARE SELECTED TO GO TO FRANCE FOR FURTHER
TRAINING; MANY ARE ALREADY IN FRANCE FOR THIS PURPOSE (FIELD. COMMENT:

APPR. 6.). KASONGO HIMSELF CONSTANTLY TRAVELS ABOUT KATANGA. SEEING
THAT. THE SPECIALIZED MILITARY EDUCATION OF ORDINARY PARACOMMANDOS .
CONTINUES WHEREVER... UNITS ARE POSTED.

3. THERE 1S ALSO AN ALL-AFRICAN MOBILE BRIGADE OF. 750 TROOPS
WHO ARE WELL-TRAINED AND REGARDED AS DEPENDABLE AND COURAGEOUS.
IT HAS SOME ARMORED CARS BUT THEY ARE CURRENTLY IN POOR CONDITION
OF MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. FOR TRANSPORT THIS UNIT DEPENDS MAINLY
ON LAND ROVERS, ITALIAN FIAT JEEPS, THAMSTRADER 6-WHEELED DIESEL
TRUCKS (INITIAL 50) AND A FEW RENAULT TRUCKS AS 00 OTHER TYPES OF

ARMY UNITS. ae
4, REGULAR GENDARMERIE TROOPS. ARE NOW STATIONED IN. ELISABTH-

VILLE, KIPUSHI, KOLWEZI, TO A LESSER EXTENT IN THE JADOTVILLE AREA _
.AND THROUGHOUT THE BUSH. THEY ARE MOSTLY ARMED WITH BELGIAN RIFLES,
"SOME CZECH-MADE BREN GUNS CAPTURED FROM THE CONGO NATIONAL ARMY. (CNA),
‘BAZOOKAS AND MORTARS (FIELD COMMENT: SEE ACE 673 FOR OTHER. TYPES

OF ARMS AVAILABLE TO THE ARMY), GENDARMERIE TRAINING INSTALLATIONS
“ARE LOCATED IN RARAVIA 7 KILOMETERS FROM ELISABETHVILLE AND ON THE
SHORE, OF DELCOMMUNE LAKE NORTH OF KOLWEZI, THERE 1S ALSO A NON~
COMMISSIONED OFFICERS TRAINING CENTER NEAR’ LE MARINEL HYDROELECTRIC
INSTALLATION NORTH OF DELCOMMUNE. THE KARAVIA SCHOOL HAS A STAFF °

OF 7 AFRICAN OFFICERS WHO GIVE SOLDIERS INTENSIVE COMBAT INSTRUCTION.

iON Eiieamuaueat CONTROLS



(CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

|conrmexta. — yororwconmwueD oven. | >="

(When Filled In)

‘SEVERAL OF THE 27 AFRICAN OFFICERS WHO RECENTLY RETURNED FROM TWO

YEARS MILITARY: TRAINING” IN BELGIUM HAVE BEEN POSTED TO Ue scHooLs

NEAR KOLWEZ I.” :
MOST ARMY OFFICERS IN GENERAL HAVE RECEIVED MILITARY TRAINING .IN

BELGIUM, as ; ; ; a
5. AT PRESENT THERE ARE 135 FULL TIME PROFESSIONAL MERCENARIES:
OF WHICH THE FRENCH CONTINGENT INCLUDING FORMER OAS TERRORISTS:

FROM ALGERIA. 1S NUMERICALLY THE LARGEST FOLLOWED BY SOUTH AFRICANS
AND BELGIANS. _ IN ADDITION THERE ARE-MANY BELGIAN COLONS AND
BUSINESSMEN WHO SERVE ON A PART TIME BASIS WITH BONAF IDE MERCENARIES
(FIELD COMMENT : ACE 673 REPORTED A MAXIMUM OF 350 MERCENARIES.

A EUROPEAN ) ON 31 JULY QUOTED A SENIOR BELGIAN
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER IN. ELISABETHVILLE WHO HAS EXTENSIVE CONTACTS
AMONG SENIOR AFRICAN OFFICIALS AND MILITARY LEADERS, EUROPEAN
ADVISORS. AND .MERCENARIES AS ASSERTING THERE -ARE 150 TRUE MERCENARIES
IN KATANGA. IT. 1S CONCLUDED THAT THE OTHER 200 ODD ARE VOLUNTEERS,
FOR THE MOST: .PART COLONS AND OTHER RESIDENTS OF KATANGA, WHO HAVE
ACTUAL OR OSTENSIBLE CIVILIAN OCCUPATIONS BUT SERVE PART TIME OR
SPORADICALLY.ON A FULL TIME BASIS AS PAID MERCENARIES). MERCENARIES
ARE, ORGANIZED AND, OPERATE SEPARATELY FROM THE ARMY EXCEPT FOR A FEW
IN NORTH KATANGA WHO ACT AS CADRES IN STRATEGIC AFRICAN. TROOP
GARRISONS, IN. ADDITION TO THEIR REGULAR PAY ALL MERCENARIES NOW

RECEIVE 2000 KATANGA FRANCS. DAY WHEN. THEY ARE "ON MILITARY



TLASSIFIGATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

CONFDENTIL — NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTRO

MISSIONS" (FIELD COMMENT: ACE 673 REPORTED THEIR REGULAR MONTHLY

SALARIES TO BE 50.000 TO 100.000 FRANCS PAID BOTH IN LOCAL AND
FOREIGN CURRENCY). POINTS OF MAJOR MERCENARY CONCENTRATIONS ARE

THE KIPUSHI, ELISABETHVILLE, KAMBOVE, KOLWEZ I. KABONGO AND KONGOLO
“AREAS, SEVERAL ARE ALSO HIDDEN IN THE BUSH AROUND THE UN-HELD

TOWN OF NYUNZU IN NORTH KATANGA (FIELD COMMENT: APPR. 6). THIS
DISTRIBUTION 1S GENERAL AS THEY ARE CONSTANTLY MOVING ABOUT IN
SMALL MOBILE UNITS AND SHIFTING THEIR BASE LOCATIONS. A FRENCH
OFFICER, FNU BARON, WHO FORMERLY SERVED IN INDOCHINA BUT NEVER

IN ALGERIA, HAS BEEN GIVEN OVERALL COMMAND OF MERCENARIES. ALTHOUGH
HIS HEADQUARTERS IS IN KIPUSHI, HE 1S NOW SPENDING MOST OF HIS TIME
TRAVELLING ABOUT KATANGA “INSPECTING HIS COLLEAGUES AND TRYING To
-CONSOLIDATE HIS COMMAND STATUS (FIELD COMMENT: ACE 673 REPORTED

A FRENCH COLONEL GARDY, WHO MAY ACTUALLY BE THE SAME MAN AS

"BARON", HAD BEEN PROPOSED FOR THIS FUNCTION. QUE TO THE BITTER
JEALOUSIES BETWEEN THE VARIOUS NATIONAL GROUPS, IT 1S NOT SURPRISING
“THAT THE "COMMANDER" MUST GIVE HISATTENTION TO PERSUADING HIS
COLLEAGUES TO ACCEPT HIM AS THEIR LEADER). JOSEPH SMAL, BELGIAN

PROPRIETOR OF THE "BONNE AUBERGE” IN KOLWEZI USES HIS HOTEL AS A

: as : a
COORDINATION CENTER FOR MERCENARIES. HE STORES A LARGE QUANTITY
OF ARMS THERE FOR THEIR USE. FOR RECOGNITION PURPOSES WHEN

GREETING MERCENARIES SENT TO CONTACT HIM,.HE KEEPS IN A CLOSED

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL RN/CONTINUED CONTROL

rer arial



'CLASSIFICATION.— DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL NFORW/CONIED eoNTROR

(When Filled In)

“FRAME INSIDE THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE HOTEL BAR a PICTURE OF Babee
DRESSED IN MERCENARY UNIFORM HOLDING A BOMB NEXT TOA KATANGA
“MILITARY AIRCRAFT. ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BAR HE KEEPS A PICTURE
oF BARON. MORALE AMONG TRUE MERCENARIES AND EUROPEAN VOLUNTEERS 1s

CURRENTLY HIGH: THEY SUPPORT TSHOMBE WITH NO RESERVATIONS AND ARE
“CONF IDENT THEY CAN SUCCESSFULLY DEFEND KATANGA AGAINST UN OR CNA
ATTACK, ; :

6. THE PRESENT ACCENT WITHIN THE KATANGA AIR FORCE (KAF) 1S ON
TACTICAL USE OF PREDOMINANTLY SMALL AIRCRAFT. Kar STRATEGISTS

VIEW JET AIRCRAFT AS TOO FAST FOR A SMALL COUNTRY LIKE KATANGA;

ALSO KATANGA CAN NEVER HOPE TO MATCH JETS AVAILABLE TO THE UN WHICH
CAN APPEAL 0 THE WHOLE WORLD FOR REINFORCEMENTS IN EVENT ITS :
SUPERIORITY IN NUMBERS WAS CHALLENGED. THE KAF VIEWS ITS EXPERIENCE

WITH SMALL AIRCRAFT DURING THE DECEMBER FIGHTING AS USEFUL; IT
WAS ABLE TO DROP SMALL BOMBS EFFECTIVELY FROM LOW ALTITUDES AND
OUTMANEUVER UN JETS. THE KAF PRESENTLY HAS THREE DOVES AND IS
TRYING TO GET MORE (FIELD COMMENT: ACE, 673 ALSO REPORTED Two OR
MORE. DE. HAVILLAND DOVE. TWIN-ENGINE UTILITY TRANSPORTS AVAILABLE TO
THE KAF), IT 1S ALSO TRYING TO ACQUIRE MORE SMALL PLANES. PAUL
GIRON, AN EX-BELGIAN AIR FORCE. OFFICER AGED 55 AND “MARRIED TO A
| BRITISHER, IS NOW IN KOLWEZI AND PLANS TO REMAIN THERE UNTIL °

OCTOBER ACTING AS AGENT/EXPEDITOR FOR AIRCRAFT PURCHASES AND



CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

ri pe
CODE. oroRvconTED cong"

© aanes

DELIVERIES. AIRCRAFT ARE STAGED AND OPERATED FROM THE KIPUSHI At

KOLWEZ1 AIRPORTS; THE KAF ALSO DEPENDS HEAVILY ON USE OF NUMEROUS

SMALL GRAVEL AND SAND-SURFACED AIRSTRIPS LOCATED IN THE BUSH
THROUGHOUT KATANGA, IT DEPENDS PRIMARILY ON THE UNION MINTERE DU -~----—---

HAUT KATANGA (UMHK) WORKSHOPS AT JADOTVILLE TO FABRICATE, REPAIR

OR INSTALL AIRCRAFT SPARE PARTS, THE KAF NOW EMPLOYS 11 MERCENARIES

AS PILOT ‘PERSONNEL. MOST ARE”BRITTSH OR SOUTH AFRICANS..PLUS
TWO CANADIANS AND ARE BASED AT KOLWEZI. MOST PREVIOUSLY SERVED WITH

THE RAF MANY IN SUDAN, UGANDA OR KENYA, TWO SUCH ARE JAMES W.

HEDGES, A BRITISHER NOW:+N KOLWEZI, AND PETER WICKSTEED, BORN IN

BRITAIN OF SOUTH AFRICAN PARENTS, WHO GIVES HIS ADDRESSES: AS B. P. Ov,
KOLWEZ I+ AND POSTE RESTANTE (GENERAL DELIVERY), KIPUSHI.

OTS NOTIFIED THE GOK OF THEIR

ON OR’ ABOUT. 10. JULY ALL. MERCENARY

REFUSAL TO RECOGNIZE BARON AS THEIR COMMANDER OR OBEY HIS ORDERS.”
THEY EXPLAINED ENGLISHMEN CANNOT WORK UNDER FRENCH COMMAND, THE
KAF HAS ALLOWED THEM TO FORM THEIR OWN COMMAND OUTSIDE BARON'S

JURISDICTION.» :
Ts PRACTICAL OPERATION OF ARMY TACTICAL SIGNALS FACILITIES

IS UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF: MERCENARIES ALTHOUGH SENIOR. AFRICAN

OFFICERS ARE NOMINALLY--fN COMMAND... ALL ‘ARMY UNITS ARE EQUIPPED
WITH "SAYT" WIRELESS RADIOS (FIELD COMMENT: APPR. 6 ). ONE SAYT
INSTALLATION WAS OBSERVED IN THE ARMY TRAINING CAMP NEAR KOLWEZI;

‘CLASSIFICATION = ‘DISSEMINATION CONTROLS,



~ CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORNCONTIUED CO cow ‘cana

(When Filed 10)

ANOTHER 1s INSTALLED IN AN: AMBULANCE EQUIPPED WITH A LARGE AERIAL
JUST OUTSIDE KIPUSHI,- AFRICAN SOLDIERS WERE OPERATING BOTH, ~ THE
DEFENSE MINISTRY HOPES TO BE ABLE IN CASE OF HOSTILITIES TO MAKE
USE OF “KATANGA ‘CIVIL AND UMHK TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES BUT
EXPECTS’ THE UN WILL IMMEDIATELY CAPTURE OR RENDER THESE USELESS AS
A PRIME MILITARY OBJECTIVE. THE MINISTRY HOWEVER 1S COUNTING
" HEAVILY ON UMHK WIRELESS ano SIGNALS COOPERATION OUTSIDE ELISABETH-

~“ VILLE IN AREAS NOT CONTROLLED BY THE UN. A STRONG INTERNATIONAL

WIRELESS FACILITY HAS BEEN INSTALLED IN KOLWEZI: 1T 1S IN DIRECT
STRONG CONTACT WITH KATANGA REPRESENTATIVES IN BRAZZAVILLE AND WILL
BE USED AS THE GOK*S MAIN POINT.OF CONTACT WITH THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
Zi 8. ARMY STRATEGISTS BELIEVE THE RHODESIAN ‘AND SQUTH AFRICAN

: GOVERNMENTS WISH TO HELP KATANGA MILITARILY BUT ARE UNABLE TO DO
SO OPENLY AND DIRECTLY. THEREFORE THE ARMY, WITH GOK COOPERATION,
1S SEEKING BUSINESSMEN FROM THOSE COUNTRIES WHO CAN SETTLE
TEMPORARILY IN’ KATANGA AND ACT AS INTERMEDIARIES IN BUYING AND
SELLING MILITARY ITEMS AS THEIR OWN PROPERTY. GIRON IS THIS TYPE
‘OF AGENT, THE ARMY HOPES TO OBTAIN ARMS, AMMUNITION AND AIRCRAFT
‘FROM RHODESIA AND SOUTH AFRICA THROUGH THESE BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES.
“~"Q, -THE UMHK PROGRAM FOR. PROTECTING THE PHYSICAL. SECURITY OF

ITS INSTALLATIONS HAS OVERT AND COVERT ASPECTS. UNIFORMED AFRICAN

SECURITY GUARDS EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY AND SUPERVISED BY EUROPEAN



CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL: NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL “tBés'=3/519, 291 -

(When Filled In)

STANCES. UMHK ALSO HAS A SECRET STOCK OF LIGHT POWERFUL DEFENS|VE
ARMS WITH. AMMUNITION WHICH IT PLANS. To DISTRIBUTE TO ALL EUROPEAN
AND SELECTED AFRICAN EMPLOYEES WHO ARE WILLING TQ FIGHT TO DEFEND

| COMPANY MINES .AND PLANTS IN CASE GENERAL HOSTILITIES ARE RENEWED,

Usk HAS .NO PLANS FOR SABOTAGING ITS OWN PROPERTY. ON THE CONTRARY
COMPANY OFFICIALS PRIVATELY ASSERT THEY PLAN IN THE NEAR FUTURE TO
£XPAND- EXPLOITATION OF MINES AND. PROCESSING FACILITIES: THE
COMPANY. HOPES. TO,.INSTALL A NEW COPPER REFINERY, IN KOLWEZI. UMHK
HAS ITS QWN PRIVATE VOICE,RADIO IN JADOTVILLE WHICH HAS STRONG
DIRECT CONTACT WITH, BRUSSELS MANAGEMENT.

10e,0N THE OTHER. HAND ACCORDING TO MERCENARY SOURCES, THE

GOK PLANS TO DESTROY ELECTRICITY-PRODUCING DAMS INCLUDING DELCOMMUNE
AND LE MARINEL NORTH OF KOLWEZI IN CASE OF UN ATTACK OUTSIDE
ELISABETHYILLE. ..PREPARATIONS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED TO BLOW UP BOTH
IN CASE OF THIS. CONTINGENCY... MERCENARIES, INDIVIDUALLY SELECTED
BY, INTERIOR MINISTER GODEFRQID MUNONGO, ARE PREPARED AT HIS
PERSONAL ORDER ONLY TO IMMEDIATELY FIRST BLOW UP. THE UPPER DAM
WHICH WILL RELEASE A FLOOD OF WATER STRONG ENOUGH TO ALSO DESTROY
THE OTHER DAM JN, CASE... 1S NOT ALSO BLOWN. . THE GOK REASONS. THAT
DAMS WILL BE REBUILT. FAR FASTER (WITHIN AN ESTIMATED 4 YEARS) THAN
CAN UMHK MINES AND PLANTS: IF LATTER WERE SABOTAGED. IT WOULD TAKE

MANY MORE YEARS TO REBUILD KATANGA'S ECONOMY. BECAUSE IT SERIOUSLY

OFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL



~_GLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

| | CONFIDENTIAL = NOFORN/CONTINUED: CONTRO! ocs-3/519,291

(When Filled In)

“JNTENDS TO: IMPLEMENT THIS PLAN IF IT FEELS FORCED TO DQ SO, THE GOK

SEES NO NEED AND SO HAS NOT PLACED GUARDS ON THE. DAMS. MERCENARIES
PRIVATELY ASSERT THEY COULD ALSO EASILY DESTROY, ALL UMHK MINES |
DESPITE UMHK OBJECTIONS. HOWEVER THEY AGREE WITH THE WISDOM oF THE
GOK PLAN BECAUSE THEY HOPE TO EVENTUALLY BE ABLE TO NEGOTIATE A PEACE
SETTLEMENT WITH THE UN AND REALIZE THAT THEY WOULD HAVE LITTLE :
WITH WHICH TO: BARGAIN WERE UMHK ASSETS GONE.

|e ACCORDING To A DEFENSE MINISTRY OFFICIAL, ARMY TACTICS ©

IN TIME OF HOT WAR WITH THE UN WILL BE TO FORGET ABOUT ELISABETH. ;
VILLE WHICH -1-T DOES NOT WISH DESTROYED AND WHICH 1S DIFFICULT. TO
7 OEFEND. INSTEAD ALL ROADS AND BRIDGES OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL WILL BE
DESTROYED. . THEY HAVE ALREADY BEEN MINED AND CAN BE QUICKLY BLOWN
: UP, = THE ACCENT IN ALL ARMY TRAINING SCHOOLS {S ON MAQUIS WARFARE
AND GUERRILLA TACTICS. ARMY LEADERS ARE CONFIDENT THEIR TROOPS .

FIGHTING FROM. THE BUSH, FROM AMBUSHES AND FROM EVERY TREE TOP, CAN
ACTUALLY DESTROY UN FORCES WITHIN A SHORT TIME SHOULD LATTER COME

OUTSIDE OF ELISABETHVILLE, THE ARMY 1S ALSO PREPARING ITSELF FOR

A LONG WAR IN CASE.THE UN CHOOSES TO REMAIN IN STRENGTH INSIDE

I VELISABETHVILLE. KATANGA TROOPS HAVE BEEN DEPLOYED SO AS TO

“| COMPLETELY SURROUND THE UN CITY DEFENSE PERIMETER, THE. ARMY ALSO
| “CONSIDERS LUENA AN. IMPORTANT STRATEGIC: POINT FROM WHICH TO- LAUNCH

AN ATTACK IN FORCE ON THE UN-OCCUPIED AIR BASE AT KAOIMA (FIELD

_(SLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

iC a



ime rosin. NOFORN/CONIINUED CONTROL
COMMENT: SEE ACE 673 FOR A SIMILAR EXPRESSION OF THE KATANGA
TACTICAL PLAN FOR CONDUCTING BUSH WARFARE )

12, FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT/5.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

