# 176-10036-10068

## Page 1

176-10036-10068

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10068

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Exchange of intelligence Among Counties

DATE:

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 59: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,

3/1/1963-3/14/1963. Box 1

---

## Page 2

nex: 011094160101

SLUM

76

CUBA

ONCHANGE DE LITISELIGENCE ALONE DAS CODIZATES ON COMMINENK

SUBVISIVE ACTIVITILS IN TEE ENLISTENE

Ein

Inture and Scope of the Erobien

As untie there 1s sone insornation svaliahto la certain

countries, the filegal novement end clandestine activities ot

tomatses in latin Anericz, partieniarly those sho have peon

tsasued in Cuts, are nat adequtely covered by estatias intolit-

делое болгова.

B.

are boing nade by eld, AlD end the 1.9, allitary corvicos to

hanove the situation, but the progrens has been aler la sost

cases and linenistent in stiors. It hnt been found thit the

nate no destro to butle i casperent carees security

service. There so ampurently a fens that the astaterco al a

constant sorTice pond interfero Men luture Inlitical seeivition

of the mentors of the aristin coveraant in the evant that they

should find thensolves on the outedle looking in. There to ne

unity of viorpaint anong tho various enlatiog intolligence

cervices, and many of then hava & tendency to yield to the

temptation to labo! as "cubverolves" those of their cun natterals.

resident in neighiarine countates man ase annasad to the present

forerment. levortheless, iristlug services of the Eatin

VLUEL

GROw

Excluded iran automalle

dawngrading and

declassifiastian

dance

---

## Page 3

7ib

SECRET

Avertenn countrtes ein produce men aseful intelligonce on this

subjoct utth an tacreased alfort.

Do The only secure and ravid commioations factistion in

Latin laentes are thoso of the U.9. Coveranent and valle these

are boing inproved, the presently authorined augmentation of

facilitian usa not pet boen congledod.

J.S. military represeatatives

have contacte tith these countergerte.

I. Tol, espertenco in the matter of intelligenco archango

in other areas are led to tho conclusion that in ainast all

inatanges, Aliateral arringonente are nore fruitiul tias such

Tuittinteres Brrangenonts

Hoverthelcas, eageriente

has shows that such multilaterel arrangemente caa be useful,

particularig in creating an snaxoncas ad the need for the

exclango of intelligence.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

76

Reconnended Couraos of Action

Corrain Courass of setion siready recamended by tate Con-

atttee and approved ly higher authorfty in comection sita the

control of travel to cula havo a direct hearing upou the mtter

of intelligence enchange. These include (1) tue undertaking ot

an immediate study of the tessibility and desiralstity of

establishing intoliigence contera at Caribbean Comand and

Cartibeas den Erontter; (2) an intenstiication of our retton in

miing evailable to ench country selected intelligence concerning

the extent, nature nud insteicus tapiientions al Cuban autyersive

activities, as connistent with the reguresenttte protect our

ent intelligence syston

Adastional Courses of Action recomended are:

A. Satonstly and terense

the trainiag and equipusag ad latin

anorlean suterul serrity and intelitgence accuices. Batabitan

such assintance asseems in aditions countulos phore it is

foua to to desirabia fran our puint of vior and accoptablo ta

tito country concerted.

E. Increase sud rotint the existing tien of counter

intellisonce information

to castabeas Cornaud do vall as to

CIA besequartare, fron toth el stica pointe further engropelato

SEGBET,

---

## Page 5

7'0

dissentnation con he made.

E. Encourage latin Anortean countrios to ougage ta

Dilateral eschange of intelligence on Connuntet activittes.

1. Undertake approgriete setions

bring about the croation, with U.w, participation, of s standing

comnittee of santor rogresentatives of intelligcnce and accurity

sorrices vith & vten to their enteblishing and sutaing the

retivities of in uppropriate nechanien for the miltitateral

orchenge of intolligence and comterinteligence tutomation

regarding communist suiversivo activities.

S. Continue and intensily curent efforts to tayrova

1d, countcation lactlitten throughout Latin Anerica.

I. incrosee tho dissemination to batta incriena

gover monte, by all 1.8. ugeneses concerned, of unclestited

studles, reports aud other infernation concoming Conualet

SECRET

---

