# 176-10036-10011

## Page 1

176-10036-10011

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10011

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Situation in and around Elisabethville

DATE : 7/12/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1

п--т--ты.

-----

---

## Page 2

04151131117

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

an unauthorised. Dorson is bo

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

2

TELEGRAM

the Espionago Lome THio 1Q-US.C. Soes

SMITTH-BUNB

_DENGLY

SECRET

_KAYSEN

COUNTRY REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO/KATANGA

SUBJECT STUATION IN AN AROUND ELIZABETEVILIE

REPORT NO. TDOS 3/516,614

_PETERSEN

DATE DISTR

12 JULY 1962

_SCHLESINGE!

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

-DATE OF 12: JULI 1962, LATE MORNING (LOCAL TIME)

• REFERENCES

INFO.

PLACE. &

DATE ACO.

KATANGA, ELIZABETHVILLE (12 JULI 1962)

- FARRESTAL

MOANDA

IN 27.49961M

- KOMER

_RASKIN

APPRAISAL 2

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINES ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE,

METAIN UR DESTROY

1. THE SITUATION IN ELIZABETHVILLE AND IN THE NATIVE COMMUNES IS TENSE AND

-

POTENTIALLY EXPLOSIVE. OBSERVATIONS IN THE LATE MORNING OF 12 JULY OF THE U.N.

PLACEMENTS, AND BEHIND THE KATANGAN LINES, SHOWED THAT INDIAN FORCES OF THE U.N.

ARE NOW DEEPLY DUG IN AROUND A LARGE SCHOOL AREA NEXT TO THE ROADBLOCK ON THE

MAIN TRAFFIC ROUTE BETWEEN THE BUROPEAN AND THE AFRICAN CITY. THERE ARE NUMEROUS

ARMORED CARS AND COMBAT-READY TROOPS. THESE; TOGETHER WITH THE LONG-EXISTING

ROAD BLOCK WHICH HAS NOW BEEN STRENGTHENED BY TUNISIAN U.N. TROOPS ON THE AL-

TERNATE ROAD TO THE COMMUNES, HAVE VIRTUALLY SEALED OFF THE NATIVE CITY. TRAFFIC

WAS BEING ALIGNED TO PASS, BUI AFRICAN CROWDS WERE COLLBGTING NEAR THE BETPLACE-

MENTS ON BOTH SIDES.

ARMED KATANGAN TROOPS HAVE MOVED FROM DEEP IN THE COMMUNES TO HIDEN

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

SECRET

•ARMY/ACSI

•SECDEF | NSA NIC USIA i OCI

ONE| OCR" ORR

OO. DIA EXO

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

SANITIZEO MK.01.031.2-24/MK.07.125

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

N 27499

TDCS: 3/516,6141

1X2246 2462 PAGE

POSITIONS 100 YARDS FROM THE U.N. ROAD BLOCK; WHERE THEY HERE ALERTLY FACING

U.N. TROOPS. THE POLICE WERE MUCH IN EVIDENCE TO KEEP ORDER IN THE COMMUNES.

CIVILIANS WERE APPREHENSIVE BUT ORDERLY.

3.

DISTRIBUTION STATE CINCLANT

END OF MESSAGE

Раласї

"Ce.

::.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION: CONTROLS

SECRET

К...

---

