Berea rage ere an nnee geersrerss stores
{176-10036-10062| (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO:

TITLE :

DATE :

. PAGES

COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM.

NARA

: 176-10036-10062
RECORD SERIES :

National Security Files

CIA Information Telegram
8/8/1963

23
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA : :

: National Security Files, Box 58: Cuba Subjects Shipping 8/63-9/63. Box

9/10/2000


Miniormation. affecting =the . N
"74, the: teamumintion 6r revelation Of which i

‘T= CONFIDENTIAL

(When Pulled Iny

(DATE OF - LATE JUNE. ‘TO. EARLY
INFO. ‘

ELD REPOR!

RADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

XPORTS: 70, CUBA ;

“THE JAPANESE: SHIPRING LE LNES; ARE -SHOW ING: NO



ny

HT ERK $30. fear ieee w WH THe

BETWEEN JAPAN £

" THIRD-COUNTRY SHIPS MANNED: BY JA

NESE CREWS.

AYE YUD YOSAUYIETA YEROELE!
NESE 2 e SHIRPINGELANES ,t ‘EeAD, REGULAR WAND: DLRECTors

ee GUBAsBEt SRQRErvTHEs

2 eesThiea FIVE ne

‘SERVI
eGNUCE:

WNETED YSTATES QUARANTINE...

Cree? £eCH
HAVES TH i us
Riscrrs i ee 330.
poate PRESENT. HONTHLY, VOLUME OF 2 OD. TONS WOULD NOT MAKE ‘OPERATIONS
SIVCE? — aabyy® 2roxee £2 yncned 4363}
seoPROF | TABLE AND ‘NOT BECAUSE “OF POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS. 8234 1G
pris OF reat ‘ome ud evura yasnai-1gea) - YEREVEMCE? ws
ae Aeon SAID HE ou CHARTER | IN LONDON SHIPS ‘THAT tee BEEN.
Wi ASECEORNCE ~. > dota
BLACKLISTED ABY £T TATES. BU] 4EXPRESSED DOUBT THAT THE eee
anetsta nay vasewts 2a

ptxa: “YOYMERE . 2thbs- ovis D12iy" Q vnenzs
CREWS WOULD BE leis TO WORK THESE HIPS, HE SAID MANNING+ ‘of Fuese
Heros: HOT ioce <3 > hea
‘A HORTAGE- OF
i oe ig bo bale TE ane
Er BBEESBRED FO BR ihe THES,



CLASSIFICATION ~ DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

(WHEN PILLED IN)

[ConrnenTAL HO FOPEIGN ot ~ | toes 3/555, 764

HIROYUKI TOLD REVUELTA THAT RECRUITMENT OF JAPANESE CREWS WOULD BE.
FEASIBLE IF THE CONTRACT-TERMS WERE ATTRACTIVE.

4, THE LATEST PROPOSAL SUBMITTED 8Y REVUELTA TO JAAEC OFFICIALS
CALLS FOR A TRIANGULAR ROUTE LINKING JAPAN, CUBA, AND CHINA. UNDER
THIS PROPOSAL,’ A JAPANESE SHIP WOULD CARRY JAPANESE EXPORTS TO CUBA,

_ LOAD 'SUGAR’ IN CUBA FOR’ SHIPMENT TO CHINA AND JAPAN, PROCEED TO CHINA
TO UNLOAD SUGAR FOR CHINA AND LOAD CHINESE EXPORTS TO JAPAN, AND: THEN —
RETURN TO JAPAN. : i

“5. WHEN UMEHARA TOLD A MITSUI LINE OFFICIAL OF REVUELTA'S LATEST -
PROPOSAL, THE SHIPPING OFFICIAL COMMENTED THAT THE IDEA WAS, INTERESTING.
‘HE THOUGHT THAT THE: VOLUME OF SUGAR SHIPMENTS TO CHINA AND JAPAN
WOULD. BE ENOUGH To OFFSET THE SMALL. VOLUME OF CARGO BETWEEN: JAPAN
AND.CUBA, BUT EXPRESSED DOUBT OVER THE AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT
CARGO TO MAKE THE CHINA-JAPAN LEG OF THE TRIANGULAR ROUTE PROF I TABLE
“FOR JAPANESE SHIPPING COMPANIES.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCPAC PACFLT PACAF ARPAC STATE ARMATT
NAVATT AIRATT USFJ USARJ COMNAV J 5AF 6499SG DOG /oS! 520 1CG.,

CENCSO, -CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION ~ DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT scessiiie

(MEG, 2-63 (15-20-44-47)

ary EDITIONS

