(176-10030-10422]

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :
RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

NARA
176-10030-10422
Sorensen Papers

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TITLE
DATE

COMMENTS
Document 1a.

: Schlesinger, Jr.

TO:

: Memo to President CIA Reorganization
: 6/30/1961

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

: Sorensen Papers: Classified Subject Files 1961-64 Box 47, CIA,

President Kennedy

15

CIA
Memoranda
Unclassified
1¢

8/21/1998

WW 49061 DocId:32622644 Page 1


SECRET SHE siwETT2eD :
.  VERSSoN
NUM-RNMING tau

eS
PAABIC.C. afor

June 30, 1961

* MBLMGRANDUM FG. THE PRESIDENT -

| SUBJECT: CLA Raorgmaization : me -

T submit the following views as one who worked in CSS during the
- war and served as a pericdic CLA consultant tn the years since.

. Gn balance, CLA's record has probably been very good. In the
- nature of clandestine eperations, the triumphs of an intelligence
: ‘agency are unknown; all the public hears about (or should hear -
“. about} are its errors. But, agein in the nature of the case, an
“agency dedicated to clandestine activity.can afford damned few
visible errors. | The important thing te recogniae today, in my
- ‘Judgment, is that the CLA, ag ef present named and constituted, ha:
". about used up its quota. Bs margin for future error is practically
i non-existent.’ 'Cne more CIA debacle will shake faith considerably
| in US ‘policy, at home ae well as abroad. And, until CIA is visibly
“reorganised, it will (as in the Algerian ingtance) be widely Blamed f:

that thie autonoray is dua to three main causes: ©
trine of clandestine cperations; . (2) an inadequete conception ¢
relationship between operations and policy; (3) an inadequa:



THE DETERIORATION];

“7; new venture with suspleion and rencunced the oppertunity to seize

the Director of Central Intelligence were brethers further confirmed .

- a larga number of able and independent-minded men, The mere it.

SECRET \e

2.

conception of the. re:ntionship between operations and intelligence.

'. The memorandum also suggests ee ee ee
lems can perhaps ‘be allevisted>

LL CIA Autonomy

‘CIA, conducts three 1 ain forme of secret works clandestine intelll-
gence collection; co~ert pelitical operations; and paremilitary aie

” . activities, it carri«s a: these functions with relative autonomy.

The reasoae for the autonomy are historicsl.

“Whoa cia began, th« State Department, still thinking teo —_ in
terms of its traditienal migstons in foreign affaire, loeked on thie ...

firm control of CLA eperations. ip did not, for example, tryto =
establish any effective system of clearance far CIA activities: and --:
aosne ambassadors frankly preferred not te know what C1A wes up to

da their countries. ‘After 1953 the fact that the Secretary of State and

“CIA's independence ‘rom supervision by ines Department desks.

In the meantime, CIA grew in site and power. During the fifties it
began in some arese te outstrip the State Department in the quality
ite personnel. - Partly because CIA paid higher selaries and evea
‘more perhaps because Alien Dulles gave his peeple courageces pro- . -
tection against McCarthyite attacks, CIA was able te attract and held

added brilliant activiets to its staff, the meee mexoeatum ite operations

areas ss overt political reporting aad even in the matatensnee

NW 49061 DocTa:32622644 Pause 3°...



2 SECRET, ; iE\als
: . ;

Yor its part, CIA bed developed a whole series of functions paral-
leling alveady existing functions of the State Department, and of

the Defense Ceparts:.2nt as well. Today it has ite own political
desks and military *taffe; it baa in effect its own foreign service;
it has (or bes had) !:6 own combat forces}. it even bes ite own aly
force. Rs ansual Vudget to about _ times that of the State Depart-—

ment. The contemporary CiA | possasces smmany of the characteristics
of a otate within @ state.

IL Dectrine

Theugh C1A's eutone:ay developed for historical reasons, it has been
able to endure because there is no doctrine governing our conduct of
_ Clandestine operatione, Tae problem of doctrine for CIA ie the extent
'  @ which its various clandestine missions are compatibie with a free
“and open sociery,

?

a
f=!
=
Ee:
ex
c
=)
=
[v4
wh
e
Ww
Pe

“jw

“| =.
P=

It ig idle to argue that, becauee the Communists can do such-and-sech,
_ we are free to de it 109. Communism is a creed nurtured in con-
Spiracy; and the whole point of Communist social and pelitical orga:.i-
sation ie to make couspiracy effective, If “fighting five with fre’ means
contracting the freedoms traditionally enjoyed by Americans in order
to give more freedo:; to CIA, no one seriously wishes to do that. Yet
1 ds. not feel that we have tried rigorously to think through the limits
which the meintenance of an open society places on cecret activity.
Until thie te done, CIA's role will not be clearly defined and under- —
eteod, The proble:n which must be faced ie! what sort of eecret:
activity is consistent with the preservation of a free secial order?

. We must begin, I believe, by accepting the fect that the United States —-
. will continue to be a astion in which politicians will ask questions and

.. make speeches, reportere will dig out stories, newspapere will pub-
lish editorials, individuals, driven by promptings of conscience
‘blurt out things harmful to the etate, and #0 on. We do not wish
change these things and could not do so withest violating the essenc
-ef our society. These things make up the framework in which |
raust operate. In abort, they constitute the preblem; end, as
General Marshall used to say, “There's no pein¢ in fighting the

{PHOTOCOPTED. BV THE KEN

Ranra:2nceneas Dawe 4



le

ro

There follows from tla, J would think, the conclusion that secret
activities are permissible so long as ney do net corrupt the
principles ané practices of cur society, that they cease to be
: permissible when their effect is to ais theese principles and’
eee eae practices.
Each form of secre: activity presests ite own problem. Clandestine
intelligence collecti-:\ hae been a traditional function of the national
etate. Hs rulos and usages are fairly well established. . in the
- pain, espionage, if conducted with discretion, should present 0
- great problem. However, when conducted with an epen checkbook
and a broad mandats, even espionage can begin to push agninet the
limits of secret activity in an open society, Icensider later, for _
example, the questica of the Controlled American Source (CAS) ani
whether the overdoing of CAS is not iii os other ae.’
lof the government, ve

HE DETERIORATION |

Covert political operations present a trickier problem. Occasions
_ ariee when it is necessary to subsidize newspepers, politicians anc
organisations in other countries. But corruption of the political life
of ancther nation ie not u responsibility to be lightly assumed. 1
ee eee
Paramilitary ectivities create an even more difficult problem, if |
enly because the problems of concealment ere oo mach more difficult.

In general, I would suggest that any secret operetion whose success is
" depenéent on the suppreesicn of news, on lying te Congressmen and |

journaliete and on the deception of the electorate should be undertaken
only when the crisis io so considerable that the gains really seem to
- outweigh the disadvantages. Thie suggests that the size of the pro- -
posed operation may be ef crucial importance. Small opsretions can |
_ be done with 8 minimum ef accompanying corruption. The grester
"| the visibility of the operation, the more ite success depends on
thwarting the impelees and denying the valuce ef an epen society,
Se
“ease be made for its necessity. ai

In short, ried incizostod sith & prepesed epestsion we mast not
aek whethor the oporatien is technically feasible ta its own term
nse uk arub eg ospnhnga hprop oped as ema
gerioun way false to ite own principles, :

TOCOPTED.

wu donet Nesta. 2969984d) Dane 5


'
|

2

2
3
=]
a
ix
e
oS
=]
=
a
e
wy
a
w
x.
-
o
e
ya
43
a
A>
&
<
a
io
4
aay
b>
a
ony
z
2
a
x
w
fx
fe.
>
a
a
w
=]
o
oS
3
oS
=]
a
x=
a

y
wn zones

\e

I. Cperations and olicy

Clandestine activitie should be agsessed not only in the context
of their relationship Ply rat ee eee cnet alti)
relationship to United. States foreign policy.

"CIA operations have .9t been hold effectively subordinate te U.S.

foreign policy.

1. Clandestine sctelligence collection is, by charter, free from
State Depertrnent comtral, This exposes American foreign policy
to a multituds of emberragsmentes when CLA is discovered recruiting
agents or developing sources in a friendly country. The recent
Singapore caso, when CLA, without netice to the Consul Gensral,
tried to subvert a member af the Special Branch of the Singapore
Police provides an instructive cxample. After complications of
ludicrous complexity, incloding an attempt te subject the recruit to
a lle-deiector test, it turned out that the recruit kad long sioce
informed his superiors of tha CIA approach and wes leeding CLA
inte a trap which, when eprung, produced considershie emberrass-
ment to relations batween the US and the Siagapore government.
There have been troublee of a comparahic eort in Pakisten and in
Japan (where a group af Chinese Nationals were smaggied inte Sascho
to work ina CLA-NSA operation). .

CLA hae said that, eee neither the Embsesy nor the Dapaz:-
ment in Washington is normally informed of this type of eperstion.

In short, no cae knows how many potential problema fer US foreign
peliey -- and how much potential friction with friendly states -- are
being crested at this moment by CIA clandestine intelligence operations.
Surely there is an argument for permitting State to decide whether the
advantage to be gained by the operation (e.g. the information derivatis
from en agont within the Special Branch of the Singepore Police) oct-
sweighe tho riek (eo, g., exsepersting the lccal government and shekir,
ite confidence both in cur purposes and in cur eense), Clandestine

” intelligence operations should plainly be cleared beth with the Depart-

ment of State and (save for exceptional instances sad on agreement of
the Secretary of State) with the local U.S. Ambessader,

RaeTa+29899844 Pade 6


SECRET: :
6 \e

“2. - Covert politivel eporations technically require State
Department clearancy. — In practice, however, C1A has often been
-gble to seize the initiative in ways which reduce State's role almost
to that of 3 rubber eta,

- ‘Thie has deen partly ue consequence of the superior drive and :
"activism of CIA perz~unei, ospecially as compared vith the diffider.::.
of State Lepartment sersornel, Yor example, when men come to C14
with the asvignment uf developing cevert political campaigns or
organising coups or preparing for paramilitary warfare, these men
naturally fall to work with ingenuity and seal; they probably feel that
they are net earning their psy uolese, say, they orgasise a6 many
coupe sa possibile, The concept of ‘contingency planning’ bas
legitimatized the concrete preparation of operstions still prasumabi;
in @ hypothetical stage; people did not at first noties that ‘contingency
planning, ' when carried to the stage of recruitment and training of
personnel, creates a vasted interest which often transforms coutin-
gencies into apparent necessities, Thus, if a group ls assembled
and revved up on a contingency basis, then the failure to carry the

\ project through (it le-ergued) will invite the disappointment end
alienation of the greups ee the pressure increasce to follow through |
on what bad started 22 s pure apecalation. This was a central factor,
of course, in the Cuban decision -- the fact that disbaodment of the
Cuban force in Guaterzals just seemed to creste toe many problems and
embarrasomente. Hxving entered inte relssions with persenalitico in
foreign lanée, CIA has sometimes seemed te feel that we must thors- -

- after do pretty much what they wact -- ar else they will blow security
os even go ever to the Communists. This spproseh hes mede us cx |
babaauaal the prisenere of our own agenta. © : z

|. THE DETERIORATION! - ae

" We become prisoners of our agente in enether eense too. The Cuba:
‘ episode leaves the otrang impression that CIA te not able te control it»
own low-level operetives.. while the CIA people in Washington are i o0
‘of exceptionally high quality, the mes sttracted to field jobe are sor:
times tough and even vicious peuple motivated by drives. of thair ow:
and act necosassily in political or even moral sympathy with the pur?
'_ of the operation. -Sueh actions as locking up the Revelutionszy Cousci!

‘trained Cubans in metbodo af torturs, euch opisodes as the
third degree reportedly administered to Dr. Rodcifa Nodal Tare‘s
6 ether democratic Cubans this Febveary -- all these suggest thet

MW 49061 Docia:32622644 °° Page. 7


es

it has meant too the ihe State Department, often apprised of an
operation only in ity ater otagee, is under great pressure to
endorse the operatic. ac already mounted because af the alleged
evil consequences c exercising a veto. I well remember Tem
Mann's romark the vay the decision was made to go abead ca Cuba:
"I would never have iavored initiating this operation; but, since it
bas gone as far ae it hae, I do not think we can risk calling it off.
Moreover, at atims vben there is incressing premium on activiom,
} State, when it queet.cas CLA operations or initiatives, caste itself in
j a prissy, sissy, negative role. The advocate af clandestine activitice
i seeme 'tough' and realistic; the opponent has te invoke such intangibles
‘ga the reputation of the United States, world public epinion, "What
do we say in the Unised Nations?", ete., and sseme hopelessly

idealietic, legalistic and ‘soft. '

The result of CIA's initiative in covert. political operations has beea
to create oituations chich have ferced policy on the State Department.
This was net the ori;.nal idea behind Cli. As Allen Dulles wrote
in hie 1947 memorandum to the Senate Armed Services Committ..e,
“The Central Intelligence Agency should have nothing to do with pctic;."
Yet, in the years since, CIA has, In effect, ‘made’ policy in many
parts of the world. A number of governments still in power know
that they have even t<en targets of CIA attempts at overthrow -- not
8 state of mind calculated to stimulate friendly feelings toward the

- United States, Indonesia, of course, is a prime example.

This experience suggests that the present system by which CIA notifies
State of a projected covert operation ie inadequate te protect US
faterects. There must be some means by which State can be informad
of euch cperations at an early onough stage te affect the cenception
_ and preliminary Flossing of the operation: Otherwise CLA will con-
tinue to confreat State with propositions having potential impact on
foreign policy but at teo Late s point to subject thas impact te reesoo~

able control,
: 3. The Controlled American Source (CAS) representa =
sepect of CLA’s eneroachmert on policy-meking functions. |

7
i

ETERTORATION!

fl
JE. TO THE Di

‘OY LIBRARY bu

OF THE ORIGINAL,

Ronta+%9699844 Page B

wu aanet


lew

“WNIDIYO 3HL--40 ae

ee 3HL OL Lang, ‘Aue IT AQGUNEH Ee 4a aatzog01oHd

32622644 Page 9

aW 49061 Docida


PHOTOCOPIED BY THE KENNEDY LIBRARY

ww 4QnK1

+

5 TO THE DETERIORATION)

? OF THE ORIGINALS

4. Paramilitary warfare, I gather, ie regarded in some quarters -

" a8 @ purely techaical matter, easily detachable from policy and there-

fore & proper function ef the Department of Defense. Yet there is
almost oo CLA function more peculiarly dependent on the political
context than paramilitary warfare.

Theve are several reasons for this, For ene thing, a paramilitary
operation is in its nature a large and attributable operation and ther<i;,
as suggested above, clashes with the presuppositions of our open
society. (These considerations need not apply, however, to the
trnining of, say, the Seuth Vietnamese in guerrilla tactics er to the
eupport of already existing guerrilla activities.) For anether, the

" moral and political srice of direct paramilitary fatiure 1s acute {or

us. Cornnrzunists, when they stimolate paramilitary activity, are
doing what the world expects from them; when we de ft, we appear

- to betray our own professed principles and therefore canast afford to
| €ompound delinquency by defeat, Moreover, as the resent Algerian
* episode showed, once we convince the world that we are committed to <

paramilitary endeavor, we will be blamed for all carte of things. = And,
as the recent tractora-far-priscaers episode shewed, when we do se::4
men to possible death, we cannet lightly write them ef and close the
beoks. The Communists, en the other hand, a
Mavldeting © lasing show, :

Igri Senora ec nee oT aaveeer se veeee oe oc

Dartd:27622644 Pace 10


SECRET. 8, thes

- Mereover, guerrilla warfare is fought, mech more than military
" men ordinarily realize, in en ideological context, The guerrilla
. ‘gusceeds when hie program enliste grassrocts support; sad it is
“ wery difficult indeed: to beat him whea the countryside (e with birn. E
- Van Mook told General Marshall in 1946 not to worry sbeut the —
_ guerrillas in Indonema; “we are sending 50,000 men out there
: and will clean the sizuation up in the three menths." Marshall,
who bad bad experie.ce fighting guerrillas in the Pailippines,
replied, “It won't t< co casy. You will find that they will bleed :
you to death." Cyprus and Algeria illuetrate the difficulty af over -
- |} corning guerrilla resistance through sheer weight of military force.

Serious guerrilla r.overnents have been defeated only three times vince
the erd of the Secovd Vorid Var: in Greeco, Lecause Tite's a a
"closes the eorthara vosder; In the Philippines; and in Malsya. -
the lact two cases the guorrilla resistance ended because ofthe
- >} ‘combination of political ang military countermeasures. The at strugs«
“Ta Malaya, a0 Field “arshal Templer under jand said), wos fe
ce the minds and hearts ‘oi the people; it therefore involved not o=i;. .
. paranillitary operetions but a vast educational progvam, organizsatio;
: of treda unions, political reform and an offer of national indepondonc:
- |. If the guerrillals power lies ip bis revolutionary progrem, the | anewer
: lies in part tn meeting the needa which enable the guerrilla to rouse ©
the countryside, “Without 6 political goal," wrete Mao Tse-tung, ".
“guerrilla warfare n-ust fail, as it most if ite polities) objectives do:
net coincide with the aspiraticns of the peeple and if theiz eymoathy. :
: eeoperation end assistance cannct be gained,“ He added, “Do we | -
went the support of the masses? if wa do, we must ge ameng the
masses; arouse them.to activity: concern | ourselves with their weal

-For these a paramiitery warfare cannot be eee
primarily a military weapon. ft is primarily « politics! weapon. and
must therefore be subj ected to close and careful political oversig>t.
It probably ‘should be‘retained in 8 reconstituted CLA rather.



Me.

5. How to Eata: lish Policy Coatrol? Here I wonder whether the
British experience «: ight sot be of value. The notable feature of the
British intelligence -vetem is the determination to keep clandestine
activity under atric: “oreign Uffice contral. This control te achieved

ing ‘ number of wayr

a) Soccer intelligence Jorvice ee ttealf operates under
. the direction af \he Joint Intelligence Committee, which has 2
_Foreign Cffice :nsirmen (until recently Sir Patrick Dean, who
is now the Eriticn representative st the UN) and which includes
the Service Inte‘ligence directors and representatives of the
Colonial Cifice and the Commonwealth Relations Office as well
as the Chief of 145,

d) ‘baste po !tical wartare directives are evigiaated, Bot
‘By SIS, but by tae. Information Research Department in the
Foreign Céice, eften in consultation with an interdepartmental
Working Group wa International Communist Fronts, and under
the ultimate coral of the Superintending Under-Secretary of
the Permanent : S aciichninicnet die Department im the Foreign
. Cliice, :

| THE DETERIORATION |

c} SIS covers political action campelgne mast net eaby c00-
“form to Foreign Uilice directives but must be cleared with the
“appropriate Forelgn Office geographical deaks, ae

_ — ay ‘working groupe under IRD chairmanship govera epera-
tions in specia) areas, euch as, for example, cmnieinetaminiecet :
Hone ox the World Youth Festival, :

“a a Foreiga Office Stadl Linteca Offiaer eite aaxt to the 5
-Ceidf, agg dontclate causa miaremer eed eee ald

NW 49061~ .DooTa:32622644 | Page .12-


lo
7 : oh

12,

"enforced by directive, by State Department chairmanship of
“working groups, a: by the infiltration ef State Department |
’ pereomned into the 1 -elligence agency.

-" Cbvidusly this set-<9 would not succeed, however, unless the

- State Departroeat itself wese prepared to overcome Hs inbred
nabite of diffusion, ~agativiam and dalay and to take @ firm and
_ .parpesstul Brip on ine eituntion,

IV. Cperations anc ee

The relationship ber ween oparationa and intelligence raises partic: - -
larly perplexing questions. ‘Intelligence’ includes toe separshic
activities: clandesine collection; and research, analysis and
- | evaluation, The fizct.deale with that small postion of raw intelli-
gence procured by secret means (Mr. Dulles estimated in 1947 that ©
.. "a proper analysis of the intelligence obtainable by. . . overt,
. normal, land abovetoned meane weld supply ve with over 60 percent,”
*',  L ahould estimate, of the information required fez the guidence of our —
” patiens! policy”); the second lovelves the collstion and interpretstic:
of alt forma of intelligencs,. Laced comecees em ae ares a
- cetimates.

a euisteetine gutboeton te ‘euros te toe
Secret Intelligence Service. The research, snalysis and estimating
fenetion (e Located in the Faseiga Office Resoerch Department.

Under the Amestcan eystern, CIA hes responsibility fer beth Fa
‘clandeetine collection. and research ani analysis. The State Depar
ment's Bureau of Intelligence and Research else hes resesreh snd

way a8 to reduce State's contribution to submitting ite views |
r acceptance or rejection, . in thes words, where io Creat
. Foreign Cifise plays the coordinating rele ts the intelligents



SECRET ee
a ;

The argument agains: incorporating the research and estimate
function in State was made by Dulles in 1947: "For the proper
judging of the situat:en in any foreign country it is important that
_ information should ts processed by an agency whose duty if ts to
weigh facts, and to iraw conclusions fromi these facte, without -
having either the facta or the conclusions warped by the inevitahie
and even proper prs wéices of the men whose duty {t is to determine
policy and who, havi-g once determined a policy, are too iikely to
be blind to any facts which ee
ate fealty."

Precisely the came atgument can be used with equal effect ageinat,
the incorporation oi -he research and estimate function in CIA --
4,@., if intelligence i9 too closely connected with operstiona, then | :
[Pooper ee lp cle ee ad eel aa aie
4 intelligence which validates the operation, . .

Cbviously both arg::ents conclude tn s case fer the establishment of

& fairly. indopendent -esearch and estimate group. But, if the Rai
: ‘group is too independent, one runs into the opposite danger: that is,
| that neither policy sor. Spererione will be, eubjocted te sioquate
: intelligence checks.

hb trouble with the “Suban opssaiien, far eaamgle, was ses thes
panei poses ere pelo ‘were combined, bus precisely that the ©
- Cuban-cperation evaded systematic intelligence judgment. The in
‘telligenes branch (DUI) of CIA was never informed of the existence
ef the Cuban operation. The Office of National Estimates was never
aeked te comment. on the assumption, for example, that discontent
‘had reached the point in Cuba where e successful landing operation.
would provoke uprisings behind the lines and defections from the
Militia, - In December and February, the Céfiee of National Estimat

wholly independent of the Cuban operation.
opinion hed been invited, Sorecus ve amet emns vatiloent



OLUNCL : -

14,

that knowledge of the Cuban eperation, Maunted in Miami bare :
by aay cumber of Ic->-level agents in the operations branch of CIA,
was denied to even :20 top officials of the intelligence brench, Tho
Bureau of Intelligenve and Research of the Dayartment of State :
: “kasw sven lses abou the Cuban operation,

: ‘The problem, then, | ia to have an R&E group sofficiently independe::
‘of both policy and operations to resist the pressure to make the casc
for vested ideao anr tatcrests -- yet enfficiently clese to be ablo to
Subject projected wrerstions er niet te the most intense and

: searching scrutiny. :

where could this group ve located? if the 5 CIA were to become
gubordinate to Stats. aa 241-6 is to the Foreign Office, then the Fi:
_. fanction might de v- sted in a coordinate subagency, somewhat inde-
; pendent of both Stats and CLA, yet closely connected with both ind.
- \:tonday operations. The R&EF eubagency would receive intelligence
" from CIA and frem “tate, 20 well as from the services and, of course
. It would represest, in effect, & fueton of CLA/
and State/Intelligence and Research. 8 might aleo take over certai: . -
of ths service functions sow confided to CIA ~~ photographic interpre-.
tation, biographice, data, foreign brosdcast monitoring, overt collec- |.
tien, maps, etc. . There might be in additien & Joint Intelligence Eoaré.
: ‘with representatives from all the intelligence eon oad with ee
eS os feet

THE DETERIORATION: *.:

v.

Constuston,

_The azgument of thie roemorsodum implies a fairly dsectic reerran:
“mmant of our presert intelligence set-up. 2k aleo implies the capaci:
of the State Department to agsame command ef the situation and to
eo in an effective and purposeful wey. If the State Department ae a:
recent staffed ie not capable ‘of assuming effective command, thi
“my Jndeente an argument sgainst e retional. reorganis



SECRET

. “he structure whic! would meet the criteria euggestcd ta thie
: | memorandum hana 8 as fllows:

» The Stas Department would be granted general
ciearacce auth “ty ever al] clandestine activity, This .
roight be effectuaced on the British model by the appointment
of a Deputy Uncy -secretary of State for intelligence, who
would act fort! Secretary in theese matters and who ralght
serve as chair. ca of a Joint Intelligence Board,

2) The Joi: Intelligence Board would includes repre-
sentatives fror «il elow:ente in the intelligence community
and eles from to - bite House. —~

HE: DETERIORATION }

3) “qhe operdting branches of the preeent CIA would be : ne
| reconstituted undex some blameless title (the National Informa- |
_tien Service). This new agency would be charged with reeponsi-

bility for clandestine collection, for covert political operations |

., and for paramilitary sctivities, It would submit projects to the oa
” ‘Deputy Undersecretary of State for Intelligence for clearance.
In general, the agency would bear somewhat the same relation. ©
ship to State as the Dicaroament Administration and ICA :

“pete with the ‘operstions agency.
with responsibility for collation and interpretatien, 1k would ©
_ “include CLA/DDi, the Lureau of Intelligenes and Research in
te State, and the' various service functions now carried on by <

: PHOTOCOPIED
