# 176-10036-10166

## Page 1

176-10036-10166

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY.: NARA

RECORD NUMBER. : 176-10036-10166

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM : Ambassador Lodge

TO : Rusk

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

Cables. Box 2

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 201: Vietnam, 10/29/63-10/31/63, State

---

## Page 2

SEE SPNITIZED

VERSIN

144-82-1951

¡DOWNGRADED tO

CONUFIDENTIAL

-91:

5

CONFIDENTIAL

IOP GECRE

STORET

VIA CAS SAIGON 2269: FROM AMBASSADOR LODGE DIG

3003552

TO SECSTATE WASH• EŸES. ÖNLY FOR RUSK, HARRIMAN, BALL, HILSMAN, HUGHES

OSD EYES ONLY FOR

3 MCNAMARA, GILPATRIC, TAYLOR, KRULAK, MR. WM. BUNDY

WHITE HOUSE/EYES ONLY MCGEORGE BUNDY.

INFO CAS HONOLULU FOR ADM FELT EYES ONLY

CIA/EYES ONLY MCCONE, CARTER, HELMS

1..

ON 28 OCTOBER 1963 TRAN QUOC BUU STATED TO A CAS. OFFICER

THẠT: THE CVIC AND THE VIETNAMESE PEOPLE AS A WHOLE WOULD WILLINGLY

SUPPORT A MILITARY GOVERNMENT BROUGHT ABOUT BY FORCE OF ARMS. THEY

WOULD SUPPORT AN EVEN TOUGHER GOVERNMENT. THAN THE PRESENT REGIME,;

AS LONG AS IT PROVED ITSELF HONEST. AND CAPABLE OF PURSUING À SOUND

POLICY. THE VARIOUS OPPOSITION GROUPS WOULD ACCEPT SUCH

A GOVERNMENT

ALSO, PARTICULARLY SINCE SUCH GROUPS LACKED ORGANIZATION AND

NUMSERS.

THE CVIC WOULD NOT ASK: FOR REPRESENTATION IN THE GOVERNMENT

BUT WOULD CARRY WEIGHT NONETHELESS, SINCE IT. WAS THE ONLY

INDEPENDENT ORGANIZATION, WITH THE POSSIBLE EXCEPTION OF THE:

BUDDHIST GROUPS, WHICH HAD A LARGE AND DISCIPLINED MEMBERSHIP•

2.

BUU ADDED, THAT THE KEY TO ANY CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT

AT THIS TIME IS THE MILITARY.. PROBABLY NOTHING WILL HAPPEN UNTIL

THE MILITARY ACTS; THEN ALL ELEMENTS OF THE POPULATION WILL

IMMEDIATELY RALLY. TO THE CAUSE, AND THE PRESENT.

REGIME WOULD

FALL IN SHORI ORDER.

GP- 1

1500

CONFIDENTIAL

EYES OMLY

---

