# 176-10036-10078

## Page 1

176-10036-10078

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10078

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

• TO :

TITLE : Opposition in Khanh Hoa Province

DATE : 9/13/1962

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPURT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

793 and 294,

contains information,

Revelation otherina

National Delenso of the

United States

in any mannor lo an unauthorited

erich is

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

(When, Filled ITs)

NO FOREIGN. DISSEM

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO.

TDCS-3/,522, 229

SUBJECT 1. OPPOSITION IN KHANH HOA PROVINCE TO ARMING DATE DISTR. 13 SEPTEMBER 1962

MOUNTAIN. TRIBESMEN AND TO THE STRATEGIC

HAMLET PROGRAM

VOMITE-BUNDY

•2. CONFLICT AMONG PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DUNGAN

KAYSEN

DATE OF

REFERENCES

INFO.

LATE AUGUST 1962

PETERSEN

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. VIETNAM,. SAIGON. (3 SEPTEMBER 1962)

_ SCHLESINGER

APPRAISAL. 3

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS: 7923-75710B

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 PRATIVE

SOURCE

KLEIN

TOME

RASBON

KHANH

HOA PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES ARE STRONGLY OPPOSED TO THE AMERICAN FOLICY

OF ECONOMIC AID, TRAINING, AND ARMS FOR THE TRIBAL PEOPLE. THESE

AUTHORITIES FEAR THÄT THE TRIBESMEN MAY INDISCRIMATELY KILL INNOCENT.

VIETNAMESE, ESPECIALLY IN CASES WHERE THE VIETILAMESE COMMUNISTS

MINGLE WITH THE LOCAL POPULACE:

2.

THE PEOPLE IN THE PROVINCE ARE OPPOSED

TO THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM, BECAUSE THEY ARE REQUIRED TO

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION_DISSEMINATION.CONTROLS

NO. FOREIGN. DISSEM

GAOUP/

Enciuded from outomatie

doungrading and

der lossfeatron

STATE/INR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM IKA OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-;

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Fulled (T)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/522,229

IN

31488

PAGE : 2

PROVIDE TOO MUCH WORK, MATERIAL, AND MONEY. THIS OPPOSITION HAS

BECOME SO STRONG THAT PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES HAVE ISSUED ORDERS

FORBIDDING ADDITIONAL DEMANDS FOR LABOR, MATERIAL, OR CASH.

3°

REPORTED COnFLICT BETWEeN

COMPETING FACTIONS IN THE

PROVINCE, WHICH THE PROVINCE CHIEF,. MAJOR LE TAP, IS UNABLE TO

HANDLE. THE. DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR SECURITY, BA (FNU), A

CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF BRIGADIER GENERAL TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING

GENERAL, 1! CORPS, IS MORE INFLUENTIAL THAN TAP. TRUONG DINH. CAC,

WHO HOLDS THE POSITION OF DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR ECONOMIC. MATTERS,

A POSITION NOT NORMALLY FOUND IN PROVINCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, IS THE

REAL POWER IN THE PROVINCE. CAC WAS ASSIGNED TO THE PROVINCE BY

NGO DINH. CAN, BROTHER OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM AND POLITICAL

LEADER OF CENTRAL VIETNAM, FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF BRINGING ALLE.*

MAJOR: PROVINCIAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES UNDER THE CONTROL OF CAN AND ..

HIS FACTION IN THE CAN LẠO PARTY.

DESCRIBED THE DEPUTY, PROVINGE

CHIEF FOR ADMINISTRATION, YANG (FNU), AS A GOOD. MAN. BUT COMPLETELY.

LACKING IN AUTHORITY.

•4

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACU. MAAG USOM CINCPAO:

PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

i? p: 100

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

