# 176-10036-10090

## Page 1

176-10036-10090

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10090

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE : 11/26/1962

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 11/62. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

INIURMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This matarial

contains information

the transmission

ati revellection othe

Nation do tenner to the

any manner

to an unauthorted serson i brohibirid bo law

of the Espionage Laws, Tillo 18. U.S.C Secr

CONFIDENTIAL

(When, Fllled Ins)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

wit'

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/529,470

SUBJECT

DATE DISTR. 26 NOVEMBER 1962

PROGRESS OF FREE ELECTIONS IN

STRATEGIC HAMLETS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

•PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL 3

LATE NOVEMBER 1962

REFERENCES

IN 24323

VIETNAM, SAIGON (24 NOVEMBER 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO.

FVS-8217

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

- . 1. DO CAO MINH, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,

CONJECTURED IN LATE NOVEMBER 1962 THAT THE MOST SIGNIFICANT LONG

•TERM ASPECT OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM MAY WELL BE THE CONCEPT

OF FREE ELECTIONS AT THE HAMLET LEVEL, AND THE EVOLUTION OF THE

ELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEES AND ADVISORY COUNCILS INTO THE

FIRST ORGANIZED ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITIES BELOW THE VILLAGE LEVEL.

THE PROGRAM IN EACH AREA WILL BE ADVANCED OR RETARDED ACCORDING

TO THE ABILITY OF THE INDIVIDUAL CIVIC ACTION PERSONNEL SENT INTO

THE HAMLETS TO ORGANIZE INSTITUTIONS, INCLUDING ELECTIONS.

MUCH ALSO WILL DEPEND ON THE ABILITY OF THE PROVINCE AND DISTRICT

CHIEFS TO ADAPT THEIR THINKING TO THE NEW CONCEPTS. THUS, WITH

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FORE IGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECOEF NSA, NIC

ORR

• 081

GROUP

¡Encluded Irom auromorr

doungrading and

declass fianor

00

EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

$-68

1Ka

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled 51)

CLASSIFICATION. - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS - 3/5.29,470

DEARTH OF HIGHLY CAPABLE ADMINISTRATORS FREE FROM TRADITIONAL

AUTOCRATIC PROCEDURES, THE PROBLEM WILL BE ONE OF TRAINING AND

INDOCTRINATION. MINH, WHO HAD THE TASK OF SPONSORING THE

ORIGINAL STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM IN THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, AND

HAS BEEN CAREFULLY FOLLOWING ITS SEVERAL NECESSARY MODIFICATIONS,

STATED THAT HE WAS NOT YET SURE WHETHER THE STRATEGIC HAMLET

TRAINING SCHÖOL AT THI NGHE WAS GETTING ACROSS TO THE STUDENT

ADMINISTRATORS THE FULL SCOPE AND INTENT OF THE PROGRAM. FOR

THIS REASON, HE PLANNED TO ATTEND THE NEXT COURSE AT THI NGHE

2-15 DECEMBER AND, INSOFAR AS HIS POSITION. ALLOWS, TO

PARTICIPATE AS AN ORDINARY STUDENT.

2. AS FOR IMPLEMENTING THE ELECTORAL PROCESS IN STRATEGIC

HAMLETS, MINH CANDIDLY ADMITTED THAT RESULTS HAVE BEEN UNEVEN.

IN SOME AREAS ELECTIONS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN THE DESIRED SPIRIT

OF FREEDOM, WHEREAS IN OTHER AREAS ADMINISTRATORS HAVE BEEN

OVER-ZEALOUS IN EXERTING CONTROL EVEN AFTER COMPLETION OF

THE SECURITY SCREENING PROCESS. WHILE THEIR INSTRUCTIONS

REQUIRE A CLEAR CHOICE BY SECRET BALLOT BETWEEN INDIV DUAL

CANDIDATES ON AT LEAST TWO SLATES, THEIR ARBITRARY ACTIONS HAVE

IN SOME INSTANCES VITIATED THE SPIRIT OF EDÜCATING THE PEOPLE

ON. THE PRIVILEGES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FREE ELECTIONS.

3. ELECTIONS OF ANY TYPE HAVE BEEN HELD IN ONLY ABOUT 600.

•CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION. CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FUNE

IN 24323

PAGE 2

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

(Where Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREION DISSEM

TDCS-3/529,470

IN 24323

PAGE 3

AND NOT MORE THAN 700, OF THE APPROXIMATELY 1800 STRATEGIC

HAMLETS THAT MAY ACTUALLY BE CONSIDERED AS COMPLETED, I.E.,

WHERE PERIMETER DEFENSES HAVE BEEN CONSTRUCTED AND WHERE BASIC

ORGANIZATIONAL TASKS HAVE BEEN ACCOMPLISHED. (FIELD COMMENT:

THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR REPORTED 2872 STRATEGIC HAMLETS COMPLETED

BY 30 AUGUST 1962, WHICH IS OVER 1000 MORE THAN THE FIGURE GIVEN

BY MINH, ON THE WHOLE, PROGRESS, ALBEIT SLOW, HAS BEEN GOOD,

CONSIDERING THE DIFFICULTIES INVOLVED. ONCE A SUFFICIENT

NUMBER OF GOOD EXAMPLES EXIST, THE PROGRAM SHOULD GATHER

MOMENTUM.)

4.

FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMAGV MAAG USOM

CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAG PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION 2ND AIR DIV USIS.

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREICN DISSEM

---

