(176-10011-10104)

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

‘TITLE :

- DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

5/5/2016

Agency Information

NARA
176-10011-10101

NSF
14

Document Information
CIA

EXTRACT FROM PAPER SENT GEN. LANSDALE 29 AUGUST '62
08/29/1962
1

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

Ic

Redact

05/08/1998

UPON AGENCY REVIEW

NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(AUGMENTED):8/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-90-50


a rlrUCUCC a go ed

: bags of: Cuban. raw sugar. ‘shipped to Odessa, USSR, for® "refi ing..:

EVES ONLY _

Extract from paper.sent Gen. Lansdale. 29 Aug 62

2. Through. clandestine: agent sources, wé.learned recently
that a Western Eurdpean. merchant ship en. route from’ Havana, Cuba,

“to “Odessa, USSR, ‘would be: forced.to dock at a Caribbean port and

off-load temporarily part of its cargo in:order:to repair minor. hull
damage’ which resulted from. an accidental grounding. . It was ascei
hat this, vessel carried.as cargo 80, 000 two- hundréd Poun

In.order-to lighten.the: ship sufficiently. to._permit -

zl fepai rs, it was necessary to off-load and. temporarily warehouse

4A 000 of the .two>hundred pound. bags. of sugar.

-For your: further information.in connection with. his operation, .”

re: |: Kaa
ee SENSTIVE

