{176-10038-10036] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

| i AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10038-10036
RECORD SERIES : The Personal Papers of Gordon Chase
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : :

ORIGINATOR : -
FROM. :
TO:

TITLE : Memorandum for the President
DATE : 12/15/1963
PAGES :.22 23
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : :
COMMENTS : Gordon Chase, Box 1: Chronological file 8/63-12/63, Box 1. Box 8.


ants — PL
: prarr. a

12/18/63". en Chan

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE °

_MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

SUBJECT: (BBM Meeting on Cuba -- December 19, 1963
_ At 11:00 A.M. on Thursday, you will be meeting primarily with

State, Defense, CIA,. to discuss further possible measures we can take’

against Castro,. which stop short of invasion and blockade. The. following

is an attempt to describe the Cuban Sianiee as a whole -- where we have

‘been since Januany, 1963; where we are now; and where we seem to be headed.

The paper ends with a brief description of a number of further possible.

measures is can take against Cuba. State, Defense, and CIA, which, by

and large, have reserved their positions on these measures, will be prepared

to discuss them with you in detail at the meeting.

I, Current U.S. Policy - *

. The bare minimum objective of our policy is a Cuba which poses no
threat to its neighbors and which is not a Soviet satellite. In moving towards :
this objective we have rejected the options of unprovoked U. S. military ieee !

vention in Cuba and of aneffective, total blockade around Cuba -- primarily

because they would risk another US/USSR confrontation. Instead, we are engaged
in a variety of unilateral, bilateral, and:multilateral measures, both defensive

and offensive, which stop short of these drastic measures. :
Il, Review of U.S. Measures Against Cuba Since January, 1963.
On January 9, 1963, the White House set up an isterdepartmental task -<

force, headed by State, to coordinate all matters pertaining to Cuba.



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
: -2-

. With the establishment ‘of the Cuban Coordinating Committee, our post- :
missile crisis measures against Cuba began. These measures have been
essentially either defensive or offensive in nature.

A. Defensive Measures

Our defensive measures have primarily aimed at three targets:

(1) Cuba, the Military Threat -- We nate boca intent on ensuring that
Cuba does not become again an "offensive weapons" (e.g. missiles) threat to the
U.S. or Latin America. To this end we have conducted intensive air and sea
surveillance around and over Cuba and have collected intelligence from within
Cuba. So far Ae we know, we have’ been, entirely successful in this effort and
Cuba is not now an "offensive weapons" threat to either the U.S. or to Latin

- America. ;

Bit even without "offensive weapons" Cuba remains a powerful military
establishment in Latin America. To discourage possible Cuban military attacks
against its-neighbors, we have put ourselves clearly on record that vemustitiepmement
any such Cuban moves amd will have extremely dire consequences fr Cuba. ‘

(2) Soviet Troops -- We have been intent, for domestic political, as well
as national security reasons on effecting the removal of all Soviet military person-
nel from Cuba. To this end we ‘have made it eminently clear to the Soviets on
numerous occasions that we cannot tolerate the permanent assignment of Soviet
military personnel to Cuba. Asa result of Soviet self-interest and our pressures,
there are now 4,000 to 7, 000 Soviet military personnel (mostly advisers and
tectatetnc} remaining in Guba, ‘representing a drop of about 65% to 75% from the
peak reached in the autumn of 1962; a net outflow ee to be continuing, How-

ever, the issue remains a delicate one. At any moment the Russians ‘could



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

= 2(a)-

arbitrarily decide to send more troops into Cuba. Ne the fact that eee

Cubans will probably control the surface-to-air missile sites by mid- 1964 is

: disturbing.

\



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
-3-

(3) Subversion -- We have been intent on impeding and if possible

stopping Cuban based and supported subversion in the Hemisphere. To

this end we have made a special effort, bilaterally and in multilateral
forums, to direct Latin American attention to, and to assist (materially

‘ : 7

where appropriate) Latin American efforts in the problem of controlling
internal insurgency and in controlling the subversive movement of people,
fonds, arms, and propaganda between Latin Ane rica and Cuba. : On the one
hand we have had some success -- there is now an increased awareness in ,
Latin America of the extent and nature of the threat along with an increased
capability and will in Latin America to do something about the problem.

One measure of our success is Venezuelan readiness, in contrast to
_Previous reluctance, to make an international issue out of the a=svesesehe
discovery.] (eee aiken emeereg this success is that primarily through
the use of Te control by Latin American governments, there has been a
50% drop over the past year in the number of Latin Americans traveling to i
Cuba.

On the other hand, with Castro, still exceedingly intent on producing

"another Cuba"! in the Hemisphere; and with many Latin American Ae
ments still unwilling or unable to cope effectively with subversive efforts,
much remains to be done, In this regard proper exploitation of the recent
discovery of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela might take us a long way

towards getting wholehearted Latiri American cooperation in the fight against

subversion. Such cooperation is a vital key to success in this field,

TT I ELE ER ET TE TS I LI IT MOTE TN CELT SEIT TOS Se



* fields, while making further progress in others. About a year ago, only 5

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE .

=4-

B. Offensive Measures

Offensively, our ultimate minimum target is to remove the Soviet
satellite from the Hemisphere. We hope to achieve this by concentrating
mainly on three intermediate targets - intensifying Cuba's already- serious
economic difficulties; increasing the cost and unpleasantness to the Soviets
of maintaining Cuba; and stimulating direct and indirect internal resistance
to the ad a Our chief weapons for achieving these offensive targets are
two -- isolation measures and covert measures (which also have an impact.
on our defensive targets, particularly Cuban subversion).

(1) Isolation Measures =- The most outstanding characteristic of our
isolation measures is that they have been exceedingly difficult to implement
-- primarily because eee depends on the cooperation of others
and not meseky on U.S. will alone. Nevertheless, while one could have :
reasonably expected our isolation policy to break up as the world moved
away from the heat of October, 1962, in fact, this has not happened.

Instead, while far from performing Sprmatnly over the past year, |

our Leica policy generally h has held the ground already made in some i

OAS countries maintained diplomatic relations with Cuba; the number not

only remains the same now, but anticipated OAS reaction to the discovery

. of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela gives some reason to hope for further

ruptures. The low level of Free World trade with Cuba reached in 1962 has

generally been maintained in 1963. Air isolation of Cuba has been fairly

successful; a dramatic demonstration of this is the fact that many Latin



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE. ©

-5-

FLT Yodo ban! of
Americans have had to travel to and from Cuba via Prague. , Free World
obi domino» Cobos }
shipping-te-Guba in 1963 is running at efile 40% of nee levels. ae
for further reduction are good since we now seem to be making good
progress with the three principal shipping countries -- Greece, Lebanon;-'_
and the UK, In this regard, the Greeks have recently issued stiffer laws
to prevent their ships from going to or from Cuba, while the Lebanese
have drafted (but have not yet capi ue abn to the same end; and some
important British shipping companies (e.g. Mavroleon) have finally decided
that they should play ball with us.

But there is plenty of room for improvement. There are still roughly
30 Free World ships per month in the Cuban trade. Free World countries

then ford od ber, eee
still send many commodities to Cuba,which Cuba needs desperately. And
there are still air routes between Cuba and Spain and Mexico.

The effectiveness of our isolation policy in hitting the target is
impossible to gauge accurately. While Hurricane Flora, in a few days,
probably hit the target more squarely than our isolation measures did in a
year, it is generally agreed that the.economic chaos ‘which now in fact exists

in Cuba and the enormity of the Soviet aid bill is, in part at least, due to

our efforts. Castro's. repeated and loud public protestations about our

* isolation policy and his serious and energetic efforts to break at of Free

World isolation substantiate the view that the isolation measures probably ~

_ hurt him, economically and ‘politically,



TOP SECRET -SENSITIVE .

-6-

(2) Covert Measures -- Our covert program over the past year
has covered essentially six areas. First, through a variety of techniques,
we have collected intelligence for both U.S. strategic requirements and for
operational requirements; the quantity and quality is good but there is always:
room for improvement. Second, ClA-controlled radio Programs and other
propaganda media, directed at Cuba, have been used to encourage low risk;
simple sabotage and other forms of active and passive resistancé,.and to :
stimulate tension within the regime and between Cuba and the Soviet Bloc. :
Third, CIA has “worked with State and other agencies to deny to Cuba com-
médities which it urgently needs, Fourth, we have been ‘trying to identify,
seek out, and establish contact with potentially dissident non-Communist _
elements in the power centers of the regime, with a view to stimulating an
internal coup which would dislodge Castro; we currently are in direct contact
with several people in Cuba who may be of significance. Fifth, we have
directed four small-scale externally-mounted sabotage operations for the
purpose of stimulating resistance and A Sees, Sixth, in
order to expand sabotage and resistance activities we have been involved in
aiding autonomous Cuban exile groups and individuals, who will probably be
ready to begin infiltration and sabotage in mid-J: anuary, and who will not

necessarily be responsive to our guidance. (A financial breakdown of CIA's

covert Cuban operations since 1960 is attached at Tab 1
_ The most outstanding characteristic of our covert action program so

far is that its potential for bringing about a basic change in Cuba is still

SNe a A TE ELE TTT



‘TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
a

largely unknown, The program,which makes use of Cuban exiles and which

is not yet fully underway has already achieved a degree of success -- e.g.

in demonstrating to Cubans that Castro is not invulnerable, in forcing

Castro to divert valuable resources for defense against covert activities,

in inflicting small, but cumulatively significant economic damage, and

perhaps in stimulating to some degree the insurgency which is evident in

Cuba. As yet our covert program has not been directed in such a way as to

inflict serious economic damage on Cuba. There are those who believe that
1 much can be done in this regard, as well as in stimulating further resistance, :
al heal tur ae :

But our covert program presently operates under cevonatiandseapon: ‘

present policy prevents,air attacks on Cuban targets and prevents free-lance ator

exile raids on Cuba from U.S. territory. : i

Ill: Where are We Going?

In theory, at least, our present offensive measures, vigorously

pursued and,. to a degree, complemented by our defensive measures, could

lead finally to one of the following three eventualities, each of which con~

! stitutes'a removal of the Soviet satellite from the Hemisphere. ee

A. Overthrow of the Castro Regime

Most Cuban experts in the U.S. Government regard this as the most
likely of the three eventualities. Hopefully, by exerting maximum pressure
by all the means available tq the U.S. Governments short e military force,

: we will be able to bring about a degree of disorganization, uncertainty, and

discontent in Cuba which will predispose elements in the power centers of the



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

y “8

regime to bring about the overthrow of the Castro/Communist group and.‘
the elimination of the Soviet presence in Cuba; at pause sie getot thelvevolt
it is likely that direct, or indirect U.S. support will be needed to ensure %

its success. Theoretically, the Cuban people, tired of economic hardship,

lack of freedom, and isolation from their Latin American brethern, -will

embrace the revolt, ’

B. ‘Accommodation with Castro on U.S. Terms

Under this eventuality, Castro would agree to break his tie-line
with the USSR, stop his subversion efforts, and perhaps renounce the Com-
munist ideology. While highly unlikely, it is not inconceivable that such ey)
factors as (I) U.S. isolation and covert measures, (2) further Cuban
economic deterioration, in spite of Soviet aid, and (3) distrust of the Soviet
intentions will lead Castro to believe he has no choice but accommodation.
Indeed, there is evidence that Castro may already be thinking along these
lines. In the past few onthe he has made a number of accommodation noises
and since he undoubtedly has a pretty good reading of our minimum terms,
these noises could conceivably indicate that he is willing to go a long way de

towards meeting them. - Che Guevera's reported nervousness at Castro's :
that. H

- accommodation tendencies substantiates the view :/ Castro's desire to

negotiate is genuine and not a ploy to reduce U.S. heat on Cuba.
But there are obvious major problems with this alternative. Not the

least of these is whether the American people would tolerate accommodation



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
-9-
with even a reformed Castro and whether or not we could prove to the
American people that we've gotten from Castro what we say we've gotten.
_ Nevertheless, there is rebuttal for such arguments and accommodation
remains a distinct possibility, if not for now then for later.
C. A Soviet Decision to Quit Cuba
This rhay be the most unlikely of the three eventualities, yet sucha
Soviet decision cannot be dismissed categorically in view of such factors
as (1) the lack of real Soviet progress in making Cuba a "showpiece", (2)
the obvious U.S. determination to make Cuba a Soviet "dead end" in the
Hemisphere (no more Cuba's will be permitted), (3) the magnitude of
Soviet aid to Cuba, and (4) the extent of the Sse ig laee present economic
- problems. At the least, these neces would appear to have a bearing on how

hn

the Russians would view the eviction from Cuba, either by the overthrow of

|

Castro's regime or by a Castro decision to accommodate with the U.S..on
U.S. terms, Relief would conceivably mix generously with Russian grief,
especially if the Russians could find a vaguely credible fig-leaf.
-IV Current Estimate of Possible Success
The $64 question -- Will our present Serecuine measures, even if

implemented vigorously and flawlessly, ever lead, by one way or another,

to the removal of the Soviet satellite from the Hemisphere? -- is impossible i
to answer. Castro's position within Cuba appears to be erroding gradually,
while the situation in Cuba is characterized by economic stagnation, depressed

living conditions, the loss of revolutionary impetus, and.the disillusionment -

TER RE PS PE EET ESR



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-10-

of an increasing large majority of the population; moreover, Castro's
stature in Latin America is generally very low. Nevertheless, the general
consensus seems to be that Castro still retains control; without stepping up
our pressures considerably, the chances are practically nil that we will
get to Castro in the near future and only fairly good that we will get to him
eventually.

Probably the most we can for certain is that we appear to be

moving in the. right general direction; and this, of course, is important. A

vigorous, tough, and nasty policy probably lays the best groundwork for

_ bringing about any of the three eventualities which are noted above and

which constitute the removal of the Soviet satellite from the Hemisphere.
From a domestic political viewpoint, this is probably fortuitous; a tough but
no invasion policy is one policy which the American people appear prepared

to support at this time.

Vv. Further Possible Measures Against Cuba !
The general consensus in the Government is that we should a to

find ways of stepping up our pressures against the Castro regime One of

the most important reasons for this is that the Castro regime continues to

constitute a threat to Latin America. While Castro's efforts in Latin

America may not be substantial in absolute terms, he is operating in an

‘area which is politically especially fragile.

It is also generally agreed that we are now in a good time-frame to

step up our pressures, The recent discovery of the Cuban arms cache in



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-ll-
Venezuela should permit us to raise the general noise level in and oaad
Cuba. Actions which we may have been reluctant to take several months
ago, may now be feasible.

The following is a list of further actions, short of invasion and
blockade, which we may want to take in the near future. They can con-
veniently be divided into unilateral, bilateral, and multilateral measures.
The brief description following each measure is meant to give you a flavor
for some of the more fees implications. At the S88 meeting, State,
Defense, and CIA will be prepared to discuss each of the measures with
you in depth and in detail.

A. Unilateral Measures

(1) Air Attacks -- We can authorize CIA to conduct or to equip
autonomous exile groups to conduct air attacks agdinst.selected major
economic targets such as power plants and oil refineries. As a ar we

g nor Here ax
have & targets,in mind. These weuld-be considerably more difficult to attack
from the ground but planning for a ground attack on one of these targets
is already underway. Planning for an attack on the Santiago oil refinery will

- abut Pahnmgs
be completed im-Mareh, 64,
While the concrete and psychological advantages of selected air strikes

have always been recognized, and while unauthorized air strikes have in fact

‘already taken place over Cuba, -up to now it has been our policy to steer clear

of U.S. involvement in this sort of activity. Primarily it has been considered



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-12-

a relatively high risk, high noise-level type of operation which would not
have a major impact on Castro, which would be hard to control (e.g.
innocents might be killed), and which could conceivably lead to a sharp
Soviet reaction in Cuba (e. g. shoot down a U-2) or elsewhere.

- (2) Unleashing of Exiles -- We can relax our present policy of not
permitting independent Cuban exile groups to base sea and air attacks on
Cuba from U.S. territory; we can urge the British to do the same for
Bahamian territory. While such attacks might inflict only small concrete
damage on Cuban targets, they have some. distinct advantages. For
example, they would tend to high-light the regime's weakness, cause
Castro to divert more resources to defense, lift the morale of the exiles
and of the anti-Castro elements within Cuba, and provide cover for CIA-
controlled raids,

This also is not a new subject, and, in the past, the disadvantages
were believed to be over-riding. Such autonomous raids, which would in-
volve the U.S. directly and which would raise the noise-level in the Caribbean,

‘would be hard to control; it is possible that raiders would attack Soviet
vessels and installations and precipitate strong Russian reaction, including,
possibly the transfer of more Soviet troops to Cuba. Moreover,.encourage-
ment of autonomous raids on Cuba from U.S. territory would be in sharp
variance with our publicly and privately stated position. Since March 30,
1963 we have taken‘the public position that we will not tolerate the violation

of U.S. neutrality laws, even by anti-Castro raiders. Privately, we have

oe)


Foca ene tbititsiee tsb aetna

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

- 13+

said the same thing to the Soviets while maintaining the position that we
have no control over raiding ana which originate outside of U!S.
territory.

Vm cL Lett of all poor, worlele,

Optimumly, we would prefer that these completely.autonomous,
amateur exile raiders operate from non-U.S, territory. However, we

_ May not have :this option. Generally speaking, such amateurs have their
homes in Florida and don't want to move. Moreover, the fact that U.S.
_ territory is physically very close to Cuba makes a difference to the rela-
‘tively poorly-equipped amateurs who would be involved in this sort of raid.
(3) Military Feints -- We can move U.S. air and surface units over
and in international waters near Cuba in a manner designed to keep Cuban
military forces in a state of alert and uncertainty. :

This is a measure which has not been explored to the extent of the
first two. On the positive side,. it would harass Castro, cost him resources,
and, if desired, offer opportunities for escalation. On the negative side,
there is the ever-present problem of possible peer which we may not
want-as well as the investment of U.S, forces, over time, in an essentially
psychological exercise. Implicit in this measure is the assumption that we
would be able to conduct military feints on a level at which the Cubansubuld

= eek jumpy but the Russians would not.
(4) Low-Level Flights -- We can reintroduce low-level reconnaissance

flights over Cuba in such a way as to minimize the chance of Cuban counter-

action. Publicly, we can rationalize the resumption of theflights on the

i



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-14-
grounds that they will give us more intelligence on Castro's capabilities
to ship arms to Latin America. In fact, the primary advantages to low-
level flights are psychological; they would indicate a tougher U.S. line
and would be extremely irritating to Castro - a blatant disregard for
Cuban sovereignty.

Much discussed, the reintroduction of low-level flights has been
turned down in the past primarily because of the noise-level problem, and
because it might lead to Soviet reaction against our U-2 flights and in other

“areas. Also there is a real possibility that low-level flights might lead to
escalation we would not want; the Cubans are on record that they might try
to shoot one down.

(5) Free World Shipping to Cuba -- We can take further unilateral
measures to reduce Free World shipping to Cuba. For example, we can
close U.S. ports and deny U.S. Government sponsored shipments to lines ©
of some or all countries which have ships in the Cuban trade.

This is a subject which has probably received as much attention as
any in the whole realm of Cuban affairs. Briefly put, we have thus far re-
jected further unilateral measures mainly because the nature of the Cuban
trade is such (small shipping lines with a greater involvement in Cuban
trade than in U.S, trade) that our unilateral measures would simply not .
provide the leverage needed to produce a substantial reduction in Free World

shipping to Cuba;.the slight reduction we would get would not be enough to



sinatinata as neater Cachan erat cabal hah tebe site! meneetiobee

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-15-

compensate for a number of foreign policy losses we would suffer.

Generally speaking, we have instead concentrated on applying in-
tense. bilateral pressures on the governments of Free World countries to
control their shipping to Cuba; and have had considerable, but not total,
success (see also Section V B (2) below). At the same time, we have not
entirely ruled out further unilateral sanctions. Some shipping experts
seem to feel that if we apply certain unilateral ‘sanctions in March, 1964,

. the Soviets and Cubans will have to scramble seriously in order to adjust
charters and shipping schedules in time to be prepared for the heavy
Cuban shipping season which begins in May. ,

(6) Public Presidential Statement -- You can issue an early policy
declaration on Cuba,.making clear that the U.S, regards the current situa-
tion in Cuba as intolerable. Such a statement would be designed to stimulate

. anti-Castro/Communist dissident elements v6 Brphe€ tdegp to carry

out a coup. It would also have a salutory effect on those Latin American

leaders who have indicated a willingness to follow a positive U.S. lead in
taking more forceful action against Cuba.
7 Your statement might also include the point that the U.S. is
not going to permit the establishment of "another Cuba" in the Hemisphere.
This point would be designed to make it clear to the Soviets and Castro that

they have reached a "dead end" in the Hemisphere.

On November 18 in Miami, President Kennedy included both of the



eateries wit nalemersin nitions canmanatlaneqatatedthat

{

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-16-

above points in his speech to the Inter-American Press Association
(excerpts are attached at Tab 2). Whether or not you would want to take’

a more vigorous line in your own statement would have to depend on many
factors - e.g. upon U.S. willingness to pursue a more active anti-Cuba: +
policy over the next months, upon possible adverse Latin American re-
action to a statement which hints of U.S, interventionism and upon domestic

political considerations,

(7) Talks with the Soviets and Cubans -- We can, through normal
diplomatic and private channels attempt to drive a wedge between the Soviets
and the Cubans and possibly, to encourage some ats thinking in favor
of withdrawal and some Castro thinking in favor of accommodation with the WS ow
U.S. terms. To the Soviets, we can emphasize (a) that we are never going

to let things stand as they are in Cuba, (b) that the Soviets, despite con-
siderable expense, are making and can expect ‘il make, no further real
progress in Cuba or elsewhere in the Hemisphere, (c) that the existence of
the Soviet tie-line in Cuba is a serious impediment to a U.S. /USSR detente,
and (d) that the v. S. is prepared to assist the USSR in finding a fig-leaf to
cover Soviet withdrawal from Cuba.

To Castro, very well aware that the Russians pulled the rug out

- from him in October, 1962 and aware that he is making no progress despite

massive Soviet aid, the following type of message might haye some appeale

It could be confident in tone to mitigate the possibility of relieving Castro



ST

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-i7-.-

of any anxieties he may have which work in our favor.

"Fidel, we are content to let events continue on their present course.
We intend to maintain, and whenever possible, to increase our pressures
against you until you fall; we are Aretty certain that we will be successful.
Moreover, you can forget about getting ‘another Cuba! in the Hemisphere.
We have learned our lesson and ‘another Cuba! is simply not going to
happen. However, we are reasonable;men. We are not intent on having
your head per se; neither do we relish the suffering of the Cuban people.
You know our central concerns -- the Soviet connection and the subversion.
If you feel you are in a position to allay these concerns, we can probably
work out a way to live amicably together and to build a prosperous Cuba.
If you don't feel you can meet our concerns, then just forget the whole
thing; we are’ quite contént to continue on our present basis."

B. Bilateral Measures

Further efforts in this field essentially would represent a

continuation, sharpening, and intensification of programs already in
effect. A basic limiting factor is the degree to which we are willing to
expend credit with our allies to obtain Ske cooperation in maiking Life diffi-
cult for Cuba. ‘ . oo

(l) Free World Trade with Cuba -- We can, through overt and covert,
legal and extra-legal, diplomatic and private means, make a greater effort
to deny Cuba eee to Free World.-markets and sources of supply; extra-

special attention can be directed to those Free World commodities which



a 2Th nanan stan sete

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-18-

are critical or important to the Cuban economy.

There are some real reel to further progress in this field --
a world-wide shortage of sugar which increases Cuba's leverage over Free
World sugar consumers, and'a reluctance among many Free World
countries to interfere in non-strategic trade. Nevertheless, there appears
to be general agreement that more can be done ‘in this area. Among other
things, we can interpret more restrictively tetiaue legislative provisions
which bear on Free World trade with Cuba; we would have to be prepared,
however, to accept political losses in the offending countries as wellas
the domestic political losses inherent in tacitly admitting that our former
interpretations ‘were wrong.

(2) Free World Shipping to Cuba -- We can increase our bilateral
pressures to eliminate the slowly dwindling number of Free World ships
which remain in the Cuba trade. We can try to ensure that the Greeks en-
force their new shipping legislation against ships in the Cuba trade. We
can press the Pomtoce to enact the necessary shipping legislation which
has already passed through a number of constitutional processes; :a letter
from you to the Lebanese Prime Minister mightHelp. Although we appear
to have recently found a way to reduce British shipping to Cuba without HMG
help (through direct dealings with the shippers), we can continue to press
for HMG cooperation, which, if obtained, would be most. helpful,

ee our prospects seem to be good with respect to the three major

shipping countries, it is axiomatic that we should keep pressure on other



TOP SECRET > SENSITIVE
; -19-

Free World countries to ensure that they don't pick up the slack which the

Greeks, Lebanese, and selective British shippers will soon be leaving.

“In this regard, the selective refusal to exercise the Présidential waiver of
the Cuban transportation provisions of the new Foreign Aid Authorization

| : fap Act (cessation of aid to any country which has not taken steps to prevent

' : : the transport of eoaitotitied: by plane or ship, to or from Cuba), could :

v increase our diplomatic Bresouree on the maritime nations, assuming of.
course, _ are ready to incur the foreign Bey costs involved in this step.

(3) Air Service to and from Cuba -- We can increase pressure to

i

reduce, restrict and harass Free World and Communist air services to and ee
from Cuba, Strict application of the new Foreign Aid Authorization Act.
could help in this regard if we are prepared to accept the costs involved i

in offending certain countries (e.g. Spain), On the other hand, the con-

clusion of a U.S, /USSR civil air agreement could erode our strong position
against Free World air service to Cuba.

(4) Anti-Subversion Program -- We can continue to press in the

direction of strengthening both the will and the capability in Latin America
-to take the political and technical measures which have been recommended

both bilaterally and multilaterally. ‘The basic lines of the anti-subversion

program have been laid out and they are being followed, with varying
degrees of success, in the different countries,’ Constant follow-up, technical
“advice, and assistance, and training are essential to the improvement and

execution of the program,

ean ne eR A AR RE SE PEEP ECA TT NTO



TOP SEGRET @ SENSITIVE |

-20- i i ‘abel

We can also make a tough approach to the Russians with evidence :
of the Venezuelan arms cache. Gromyko in the past, has expressed doubt
that we could show evidence of Cuban subversion. We can show it to'\him
now. = : 2

_C. Multilateral Measures

(1) Rio Treaty Action Against Cub. tele present, we are in the
process of deciding what Rio Treaty action we can get the OAS to taléagainst
Cuba as a result of the discovery of the Cuban arms cache in Venezuela. °
What we push for will depend, in large part on the hardness of the evidence
presented in an OAS investigating team's report and on the attitude of other
OAS countries towards energetic anti-Cuban action. pice estimates a that
we will push for and get 4 or 5 of the following 7 measures:

(a) Stop and search, ‘on the high seas, of selected Cuban an OAS-
registery vessels. This baciguse implies a willingness to use force and
involves the concommitant risk of unwanted escalation, ane ostensible
purpose of this measure is te fetes arms shipments but because the quarantine -
could be easily by-} passed and because the chances are le that arms
shipments to Latin ae rica from Cuba are minimal, no arms are likely to
be found. The real purpose of this measure is to infuriate, humiliate, and

" provoke Castro.
(b), Stop and search, ‘in territorial waters, of all Suspect vessels. This

is a variation of the above, which is probably almost as effective in controlling

arms shipments and which doe’ not involve the possible use of force, At the



TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
2 -21-

same time, it will be easier for Castro to swallow than the "force" option.
(c) The breaking of diplomatic relations with Cuba by the 5 OAS

countries’ which maintain them, On the whole, this would be a highly :

desirable action. It would dramatically demonstrate Castro's isolation
and deny to Castro the subversive bases which his missions in Latin America

provide.”

(d) The breaking of remaining economic relations between Latin

America and Cuba. This would be helpful as a means of demonstrating

Cuba's isolation and perhaps as a lever to get other Free World countries to

break trade relations with Cuba, Of itself, it's not much, Latin American

“trade with Cuba is already at minuscule levels.”

(e) The breaking of air and surface communications between Latin

America and Cuba. On balance, this would be quite helpful primarily

oh because! it would shut off the Cuba/Mexico air route and would constitute an
s important step in reducing Cuba's ability to move subversives to and from
£ Latin America. The primary obstacles are that such a step will involve

7 ! , ;
_i a small: (but acceptable) loss of intelligence facilities and may involve legal .

. difficulties with respect to bilateral and multilateral civil aviation agreements.
(9 Condemnation of Cuba by the OAS. The OAS certainly will agree to

= this as one of its actions, But it doesn't mean much,

(g) A renewed call for. alert against subversion and an endorsement
* of previous OAS recommendations outlining specific measures for combatting

the threat. OAS approval for this one shouldbe easy so long as the wording

does not obligate states to implement the recommendations. In this form,

PEPE NE RTTORIET GIO ee IR SERENE ED ET IT ET ETT BE TNS TT ESD TET


TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

1

22-070
however, such action will be fairly meaningless.

(2) Other Surveillance Measures -- Outside the context of Rio
Treaty Action we can try to conclude OAS-wide or bilateral agreements with
Latin American governments to take joint measures ie detect and prevent
arms smuggling by land, sea, ‘or air into Latin-America. Because of the

conde
urgency of the threat, Venezuela and Colombia ekowld be given first priority.

