# 176-10036-10109

## Page 1

176-10036-10109

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10109

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE: 7/8/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam,7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

135 1

TELEGRAM

2E C821

This, mate

.contains..in

ransmu

ОБРіВЕ!

INTORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGINCE AGENCY

ion allecting

lation e!

NationalEDöfe

? withinälther meaning

uthor

CLASSIFICATION

- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Filled In)

DOWNGRADED PER N4S:B9:159/09 12

COUNTRY

SOUTH.VIE.TNAM

VPEE REPORT NO. "TDCS-3/552,822*

JC7022

SUBJECT A MILLIARY

FOR. OVERTHROW

DATE DISTR.

8 JuLr 1963

THE DIEM REGIME SEA

DONE WORSES 10455 2X2S INS

: GONE HONKEE"

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

"DATE OF.E

INFO.

IN

8 JULY 1963

74898

..→---FIELD REPORT NO. _ FVS. 9263

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. "SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE! APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TER

SOURCEDI AN AMERTCANTOBSERVER (e) SPROM DONORS

0014 WEARED WONSERGE OR INE EXICIENCE ON BIHE SUORGE

LUO MESM

weeeeee are thaler woo sent

WAS A MILITARY PLAN FOR AN OVERTHROW OF THẺ GOVERNMENT AND

AROLE EARED

THAT THEREA

THAT. "

EXCEPT FOR ONE OR TWO GENERAL OFFICERS, ALL WERE IN AGREEMENT

THE PLAN CONSTSTS OF A MILITARY RULER ADVISED BY

MILITARY RUBER ADVISED BY COMMIT FEE

10 00 1 V BEEN HE INCIO0 CONE " W

THE NOMINAL LEADER WOULD BE UNABLE TO TAKE

ANY AC FIONADE"

WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THE COMMITTEE.

THE COMESMENS CHONGO LOAF VOWLEEN TEE BUSTENE MAN DOiNG MATIO

CONFIRENTIA

TATEY INR'!

DIA

PACS

TELEGRAM

780104.309.

SIRED.

1O VEL IN THE BEZE MALEISOLE at

1 CUSSICATION

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM *

JES

SECDE

!!D:

USIA

OC 1:

OCR

INFORMATION REPORT

Wring

OBili

EXC

TELEGRAM

FORM

10-62

1(15

---

## Page 3

35

74898

LASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRETS

"Whe.

Milled "In

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1930 203069

TOES -3/552

THAT THE REASON:

MILITARY TAKEOVER WAS

THAT PRESIDENT DIEM HAD FAILED TO ACT IN THE BEST INTERSTS OF

NE. D19 M03

VIETNAM ON THE OCCASION OF THE 8 MAY BUDDHIST INCIDENT IN HUE.

ZECHLA IRE

LIVING OLE LAE TOLLOW DI

THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE ADMITTED ITS MISTAKE

AND MADE AMENDS

Му¿чолі

706503gF

OR HE CONTINUEE"

TO THE PEOPLE INVOLVED; THE GOVERNMENT UNFORTUNATELY FAILED

SNECE

TO DO THIS AND PERMITTED THE INCIDENT TO BECOME A NATIONA SSUE•

THE MILITARY MUST ACT IN ORDER TO PREVENT THE

VIET CONG FROM TAKING

EXCEL LOS ONE 06 INO GENEBNE OLLIGEDES VER MEKE

FULL ADVANTAGE OF THE CONTINUING BUDDHIST PROBLEM.

POIZ & NICHAVER KIVALOS SION ON HE СОЛИ

4.

THAT THE ENTIRE NGO FAMILY MUST BE ELIMINATED

W5N4. 0E

INE UNTIE DE AGEMIN ZXID 048 TA 1023

BUT DID NOT SPECIFY WHETHER THEY WOULD BE KILLED OR MERELY EXILED

FROM VIETNAM

225%

ONE PROBLEM INVOLVE SETHE SUNIOR SE ICERSYNS

LAS MOS

NAMONG WHOM THERE" IS A GREAT DEAL OF DISSATISFACTION, AND, ONE OF

MASTHE SEVERAL STAGES OF THE MILITARY PLAN INCLUDES MEANS OF

1992

SATISFYING THIS GROUP OF OFFICERS.

toscaperce

CM69541A

7- SHHEN THE MILITARY GROUP ASSUMES POWER OVER THE GOVERNMENT,

ELECTIONS WILL BE ANNOUNCED IMMEDIATELY AND WIEL BE HELD FROM

-ZOILA: A L0J77

THREE O-S MONTHS FOLLOWING THE TAKEOVER OF POVERSE 22 ES

8C FIELD DISSEM.

STATE (CHARGE D'AFFATRES ONLX)

USMACY

CARACKAN

2S (CENERAL HARKINS ONLY) RACINGRAC

END: OF MES

SECRET

3 HIEGN DISSE

---

