(176-10036-10743]

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO:

: CIA Information Report
: 9/24/1963

74

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

TITLE
DATE
PAGES

Reports. Box 2

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

NARA
176-10036-10143
National Security Files

9/10/2000

National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA


Niy-ga-SEY SD -

CHD TEM: VAND INHUS CONCERNING
MAJOR CHANGES IN SOUTH
S.DOUBTRULLT HAT NHUWO
ARENTLY CONVINCED THAT (NHU
eaee KKED WITH THAO

EMBER ae CreuTenan COLONEL. _PHAM NGOC .

“ELASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS ©

8 FRC ho DISSE ABRE AD _accamiy se ony

| FORM” 1Kq onscLeere PREVIOUS EDITIONS,



0 ‘is INFORMATION. THAQ REPLIED THAT THIS



COMMENT, THAO DID NOT STATE THE. SOURCE OF HIS INFORMAT | ON CONCERN ING
NHU'S PLANS. ) ACCORDING To THAO, “ NHUES CONTACT. WITH THE: COMMUNI STS
WAS VIA THE POLISH DELEGATION TO THE: INTERNATIONAL CONTROL COMMISSION,
THAO SAID ileal NHU'S PLAN 0 DEAL WITH: THE COMMUN | STS. MUST BE
FORESTALLED, : : :
oe ON 26 SEPTEMBER. 1963 THAO. SPOKE TO A RANKING VIETNAMESE

AIR FORCE. (VNAF } OFFICER CONCERNING’ THE POSSIBILITY OF THE VINAF
SUPPORT.ING_ x couP DIETAT AGAINST THE DIEM: REGIME. “THAO SAIO THATS

Ay THE VNAF WOULD: NOT .BE - INVOLVED IN -ANY. FIGHTING BECAUSE’
RESISTANCE ’ By GOVERNMENT “ORCES WOULD. BE: OVERCOME AN THREE . HOURS.

Be THE: “COUP LEADERS WANTED. THE’ VINAF 16. HINDER OR STOP THE
FORCES OF BRIGADIER GENERAL ‘HUYNH VAN CAO, ‘Iv. poe COMMANDER
FROM ASSISTING FORCES LOYAL TO, THE. DEM” REGIME. : my

THAO WANTE! STOP : cao, el hichdell HE BELIEVED

6.
EMERY 2 1 CLR OVC

: as PROCLAMAT LON ESTABL | SHING MART LAL LAW, LN. THROUGHOUT. TH COUNTRY «

"(15-20-6604



HAS OFFERED HIS J

THE VNAF OFFICER WHOM. THAO APPROA

