# 177-10001-10033

## Page 1

177-10001-10033

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/6/2018

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

LBJ

177-10001-10033

RECORD SERIES:

NSF, INTELLIGENCE FILE, OSWALD, LEE HARVEY, BOX 9

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: CABLES

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/01/2013

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

DOC. #26, E.O. 12958. Sec. 1.5(c)

v9.1

---

## Page 2

TO

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

James Mathis, Sper. Access, NARA

V14/5

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONOURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

• FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETLIAN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. ESC-NLJ-194/93 BJ

COPY 3

OF .

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO

Jennifer Cuddeback, UBJ Libran

DATE

1/4/15

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

1/1

TOP SECRET

B. Litt

Of intest-Havends

Liesus of. Of wald,

chet.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODE WORD MATERIAL

WARNING

This document contains classified information affecting the national

security of the United States within the meaning of the espionage

laws, US Code, Title 18, Sections 793, 794, and 798. The law prohibits

its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to

an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any manner prejudicial

to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any

foreign government to the detriment of the United States.

THIS DOCUMENT MUST BE KEPT IN COMMUNICATIONS

INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS AT ALL TIMES

It is to be seen only by US personnel especially indoctrinated

and authorized to receive COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE

information; its security must be maintained in accordance with

COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE REGULATIONS.

No action is to be taken on any COMMUNICATIONS INTELLI-

GENCE which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantages

to be gained, unless such action is first approved by the Director

of Central Intelligence.

GROUP 1

LUTOMATIC DOWNGRADINI

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

• 303356

TOP STRET DNA C

33.50

7. CZ CKAB: 830

PP

DE

35B 26/20502 NOV

P. 2620157

FM DIRNSA

TO OSCAR/WHISKEY INDIA

ZEM

TOPSECRET DINAR

CUBAN CUDY WS: 17277 : 3/ 0/CUD/T1384-63

ST 300

CUBAN STATEMENT ON VISA FOR OSWALD

HAVANA: RAUL ROA: 25 NOV 63

TO NEW YORK: CUBAN MISSION TO THE UN -- 7469

I AM REPRODUCING BELOW THE NOTE GIVEN TO THE PRESS BY THE

MINISTRY:

WITH RELATION TO THE INFORMATION PUBLISHED TODAY IN THE

NEWSPAPER EXCELSION IN MEXICO CITY, AFFIRMING THAT LEE HARVEY

OSWALD HAD REQUESTED A TRANSIT VISA FOR TRAVEL TO THE SOVIET

WION AT THE CUBAN CONSULATE IN MEXICO IN SEPTEMBER, THE CUBAN

SOVERNMENI REQUESTED INFORMATION FROM THE OFFICIALS OF OUR

CONSULATE IN THAT CITY CONFIRMING THAT IT IS CERTAIN THAT

MR. LEE HARVEY OSWALD REQUESTED THE TRANSII VISA FOR TRAVEL IO•

THE SOVIET UNION ON 27 SEPTEMBER IN THE SAID CONSULATE:

ON BEING INFORMED BY THE CONSULAR OFFICIALS THAT THEIR

OFFICE COULD NOT GRANT SUCH A VISA WITHOUT THE AUTHORIZATION

OF THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS; WHICH LIKEWISE

WOULD NOT GRANT IT IF IT WAS NOT PREVIOUSLY AUTHORIZED BY THE

COUNTRY OF DESTINATION, MRO OSWALD LEFT THE CONSULATE VISIBLY

DISGUSTED.

---

## Page 5

THE SAID VISA WAS NEVER GRANTED.

THIS DETAIL, IN CONNECTION WITH THE OTHER CIRCUMSTANCE

THAI SURROUND THE FACIS, CONFIRM OUR SUSPICION THAT THE

ASSASSINATION OF KENNEDY WAS A PROVOCATION AGAINSI WORLD PEARE,

PERFECTLY AND THOROUGHLY PLANNED BY THE MOST REACTIONARY SECTORS

OF THE UNITED: STATES.

IT IS EVIDENI THAI THESE SECTORS PLANNED BEFOREHAND TO

INVOLVE CUBA AND THE SOVIET UNION IN THESE DEEDS.

THE INCONCEIVABLE AND INEXPLICABLE IMPUNITY WITH WHICH AN

INDIVIDUAL OF KNOWN PENAL ANTECEDENTS ASSASSINATED OSWALD, THE

PP. INCIPAL ACCUSED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY, IN

THE PRESENCE OF THE POLICE THEMSELVES AND IN THE ((5G)) OF A

PRISON, DEMONSTRATES IN, A SCANDALOUS AND INDISPUTABLE MANNER

THAT THE POWERFUL REACTIONARY POLITICAL FORCES WITHIN THE

UNITED STATES ARE MAKING USE OF ALL THEIR RESOURCES AND INFLUENCES

IN ORDER TO CONCEAL THOSE WHO MASTER-MINDED KENNEDY 'S ASSASSINATION,.

AND THE TRUE MOTIVES FOR IT.

WORLD PUBLIC OPINION DEMANDS THE ENLIGHTENING OF THE DEEDS.

IT IS ABSURD THAT THE POLITICAL AUTHORITIES AND THE PROSECUTING

ATTORNEY OF DALLAS HAVE DECLARED THAI THE CASE IS CLOSED WHEN

HARDLY 48 HOURS HAVE PASSED SINCE A DEED OF SO GREAI A RESULT AS

THE ASSASSINATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE. UNITED STATES.

REGARDS.

CN - -

TI.--

MS --

3300

---

