(177-10002-10099]

{2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date;

12/1220

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

LBJ
177-10002-10099

NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, | 1/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

ORIGINATOR,

FROM:

TO

TITLE:

DA’

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

PAGES:

Document Information
CIA

00/00/0000
4

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

Consulted; Mandatory Review Material
Withhold

12/12/1997

DOC. #5A

v9


ete eaaaaaeeei

ROUTING 7 “ESP SECRET

Fo. NANE AND ADDAESS INIDALS (Security Classification)

ee CONTROL No, Cac 415. 096/43 BT

REMARKS

at NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO. DATE

copy 2 or

Handle Via

COMINT

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

~EQP SECRET

(Security Classification)

4
,
é

é
/ /
y Access to this document will be restricted to r
r) é
r p
r) é
, ,
y y

laszauuewewew 4


SECRET
SENSITIVE

FRENCH VIEWS ON STRATEGY
— eee

The following is a despatch dated 23 November
from the British Ambassador in Paris, Sir Pierson
Dixon, to the Foreign Office in London,

1. I saw General de Gaulle today and am re-
porting on other questions separately. The follow-
ing exchange took Place on strategy.

2. In response to an invitation from General
de Gaulle to explain the particular point on which
I was seeking his views, I said that I had noticed,
in the reports of our representatives in various
NATO bodies, that there was a difference of view
about how best to assure the security of Europe,

I was not sure how serious the difference of view
was. The French view, if I understood it aright,
now was that the line should be established the
crossing of which by the enemy would automatically
mean that he had committed an act of aggression,
to which the response should automatically be the
use of nuclear weapons,

3. General de Gaulle said that this was exactly
right, Speaking with considerable emphasis; he said

that the French had been led to take this position

SENSITIVE
SECRET

tou



SECRET
SENSITIVE

because of the uncertainty which one was bound to
feel about what the Americans would do, The Ameri-
cans had twice intervened late when Europe had been
involved in a war. In the 1939 war France had been
Prostrate before they intervened and Europe had only
been saved by Britain holding out. Even when Brit-
ain was in dire straits with her communications and
the problem of feeding her population, it had taken
the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour to bring the
Americans in,

4. I remarked that this time the Americans
were in Europe physically and in great force. It
was surely because they were determined this time
not to be too late and because they wished to deter
aggression that they had sent men and arms to Europe
in peace-time. General de Gaulle said that this
might be so, but the fundamental point was that
the Americans did not intend to use nuclear weapons,
The reason was that with the development in weapons
the territory of the United States was no longer
immune from attack and the Americans were not pre-
pared to face this. This was clear to his mind from
the American insistence on a pause before nuclear
weapons could be used. This in effect meant that they

-2-

SENSITIVE
SECRET



SECRET
SENSITIVE

never would be used and Europe meanwhile would be over-
whelmed. Europe must therefore look to herself.

5. I asked General de Gaulle whether he did
not think, taking the case of Berlin, that it was
mis-conceived to rely on instant nuclear retaliation.
In the case of Berlin it might be the West who would
have to take the initiative in using force if the
Russians exploited their position on our lines of
access to test our strength. It seemed to me that
the immediate threat of nuclear retaliation would
not be a credible or effective response to inter-
ference with access. General de Gaulle did not
answer this point directly but maintained that what
was essential was to establish a line the crossing
of which would involve the use of nuclear weapons
against the enemy. I asked whether the General
thought this evident difference of view was suscep-
tible of solution by a discussion within the alliance,
He said that he feared it was not. When it was a
matter of life and death, you did not give way in
discussion. It was your life and you had to look
after it.

6. I asked whether he had considered what the
effects on the alliance would be if this difference

of view on the strategic concept: remained unsolved.

ERB



SECRET
SENSITIVE

If there was no agreement on strategy, would it not
be difficult to decide what forces the alliance
Should seek to maintain? General de Gaulle said
that this would obviously follow but that he
could not see that the question of force goals had
any real importance,

7. It was clear to me from what General de
Gaulle said that he will not be moved from this
position. I shall be commenting on November 25
after consultation with Sir E. Shuckburgh (UK
Ambassador to NATO). We seem likely to be faced

with a serious Situation.

4.

SENSITIVE
SECRET

