177-10002-10069} [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

LBJ
177-10002-10069

NSF, COUNTRY FILE, MEXICO, LOPEZ MATEOS VISIT, BOX 61

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

STATE
DEAN RUSK
THE PRESIDENT

02/18/1964
3

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

MEMORANDUM

Unclassified

1B;4 :
Redact

04/21/1998

DOC. #9

v9.L

HW 50955 DocId:32205112 Page 1


ADDRESS O7FIGIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
‘THz SECRETARY OF STATE, g
WASHINGTON 25, D-Ce

DEPARTMENT OF STATE ) a

— R Q
% an Beg ¢ Dengan

SECRET FER 28 te64

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

Subject: Your Meeting with President Lopez Mateos

We do.not expect to make any major political decisio
but want to give new emphasis to the friendly relations
which exist between Mexico and the United States. These
relations are now at an all-time high. Mexico felt it had
a real friend in President Kennedy. ‘They feel the same
relationship exists with you but want to be reassured. A
warm Texas handshake and abrazo when you greet Lopez Mateos
at Los Angeles would symbolize the continuance of that
relationship.

We want to stress the identity of interests of our two
gountries and our ability to work out in the "spirit of

El Chamizal" any problems that may arise between us.

Despite the informal atmosphere of the visit, we
should give scrupulous attention to Mexico's extreme

sensitivity on sovereign equality and Mexico's strong
desire to avoid any appearance of subservience to the
United States.

Lopez Mateos speaks for the Mexican Government and
no important decision is made without his approval. He
has followed an "independent" foreign policy but knows
that good relations with us, especially in the economic -
sphere, are essential to his country. At times his foreign
policy has been too independent-~for example on Cuba and in

commercial and cultural relations with Commmist China.

But
SECRET
GROUP 2
Exempted from

HW 50955 DocId:32205112 Page 2


found him understand ing and willing be helpful. mtrolling
travel of Gastro agents, hon-recognition of Red China, offer-
ing help on Panama,

Lopez Mateos has chosen his successor, Gustavo DIAZ
| Ordaz, who will take office in December 1964 after elections

in July. Power is. therefore drifting toward Diaz. Ordaz.

Enclosed is a paper on points which it ie suggested
you raise at the meeting, and those which it is believed
Lopez Mateos will raise, :

#s] Dean Rusk

Dean Rusk

Enclosure:

Paper on points to be
raised at the meeting

NW 50955 DocId:32205112 Page 3


SECRET

. MAJOR POINTS O! ST_T UNITED STAT

1. General Information and Hemisphere Relations

We desire té continue close working relations with
Mexico both within and outside the OAS and the UN.

We hope Mexico will continue to use its key political
and geographic position to help control Castro/Communism.
Mexico is very sensitive about publicizing its cooperation

and we have carefully avoided any public comment on Mexican
control measures.

Mexico has offered its assistance on Panama. Mexico
is not aware of the role of President Orlich of Costa Rica
in mediation efforts and we do not desire that this come to
Mexico's attention. We welcome Mexico's assistance within
an OAS context.

2. Red China

The coming visit of De Gaulle to Mexico and Brazil in
March has prompted speculation that these two countries
are about to recognize Red China. Lopez Mateos has given
us seeret assurances, » that he has
no intention of recognizing Red China, We do not desire
to raise this issue, but if Lopez Mateos raises it, we
should let him know we are aware of his assurances.

3, Mexico's Role in iance for Progre:

Mexico's participation in the Alliance is essential
to its success. Mexico has played a leading role in IA+ECOSOC
and has named the Director General of the Bank of Mexico as
its representative to CIAP. It has cooperated with us in
providing extensive training facilities for Latin American
technicians. We want to encourage Mexico to make a greater

contribution

ke
50955 Docld:32205112 Page 4


SEGRET

@Qe |

eontribution. Mexieo is making renewed efforts to promote
| private enterprise and we also want to encourage Mexico
along this line. We should continue te cooperate with
Mexico in maintaining financial stability and promoting
economie development.

4. sputed Tracte on Rio Gr

There remain several tracts on the Rio Grande over
which sovereignty is in dispute. We desire to have the
International Boundary and Water Commission study these
problems and recommend a solution.

5. Gontrol of Narcotics

Mexico and the United States are cooperating in

| controlling the importation ef nareotics and dangerous

drugs into the United States. We should strengthen this
cooperation in the mutual interest of both countries. We
hope therefore that Mexico will agree to periodic meetings

| ef the highest law enforcement officers of the two countries.

6. Desalinization Plant at Tijuena

An appraisal report by Interior shows that this is
| the most economical way to supply water to Tijuana. We
are prepared to go ahéad with a feasibility study if
Mexico desires and will share the cost.

OR POINTS LOPEZ MATE: PECTED TO RATS:

1. din: Problem on Lower Colora:

the Mexican President wants a reaffirmation of Presi-
dent Kennedy's commitment "to réach a permanent and effeet-
i ive solution at the earliest possible time" of the salinity

| problem. We can agree but should avoid any commitment on
| timing. If Lopez Mateos raises the related problem of the

groundwater

“HW 50955  DocId:32205112 Page 5



|
!
i

HW 50955

SECRET
=3

groundwater recovery program at Yuma, we agree that the
Boundary Commission should study the problem. Farmers
in the lower Rio Grande Valley are seriously concerned
about saline drainage discharged into the river by Mexico
and want the Boundary Commission to achieve an early
golution to this problem.

2. Bracero Program

The Mexican Government is privately seriously
disturbed about the termination of thie program. Cfon-
gressional opposition to it is strong and we cannot commit
gurselves to continue the program. We are looking into the
problem to see if anything can be done to help Mexico. One
possibility is an expanded community development program
in Mexico through private channels (P.L.480 foodstuffs
through U. 5. voluntary agencies) if Mexico is interested.

3. Mexico's Concern about U.S. Tr: olicies

Mexico is concermed about United States restrictions
or threatened restrictions on textiles, lead, zinc and
meat and other products and United States cotton policies
which it claims hurt Mexican cotton exports to the world
market. We recognize that we are natural markets for each
other, We desire to expand trade, promote competition and
develop markets. We want to maintain or expand the present
level of access to each other's market but we would not be
able to guarantee Mexico its present share of oux market in
each commodity or a share in increased consumption.

4. Ghamizal Settlement

Lopez Mateos wants to be recorded in history as the
man who returned the Mexican flag to the Chamizal. He
wants a ceremony at the Presidential level at El Paso-Giudad
Juarez before December 1964 to symbolize the Chamizal settle-
ment. We should only agree to consult later in the year on

an appropriate ceremony and a possible date.

SECRET

DocId:32205112 Page 6
