177-10001-10063| [ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J
; JFK Assassination System Date’ 8/26/20)
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: . LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: — 177-10001-10063

RECORD SERIES : NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

; Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: — 11/24/1963
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: — DOC. #188

v9.1 E 12

HW 50955 DocId:32282903 Page 1


| TELEGRAM [XT AVUGRKONMESAXORGE TELEGRAM

waning, of, the Espionage Laws, Title 18, US.C-Seer
Taw:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENC!

mation attecting the National Uefente of the UsiiGd, Sista it

This materiat. confain

IMB and, the" tramminon or vacation of which inany. manner fo ah wratlvonida prion i ohbNCd af
EE a TIQN CONTROLS caenenee
Ss E Cc R E T eee aTion. DISSEMINA’ -
x +
(hen ten NO FOREN ESS
COUNTRY, URUGUAY ' REPORT NO. TDCS~3/565,829

SUBJECT CUBAN PRECAUTIONS FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION pate vist, 24 NovemBER-496¢
OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY A

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963 REFERENCES
INFO.
PLACE & URUGUAY, MONTEV!DEO (23 NovemBER 1963)
DATE AC. .
APPRAISAL 2 FIELD REPORT NO. yume2h yh
THIS Is UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS-TENTATIVEN
SOURCE ~KIDDUFF

(CUBAN INTELL TBENCE “~
1, RICARDO GUTTIEREZ TORRENS, THIRD SECRETARY AND CIS/ SERVICE)

CHIEF OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MONTEVIDEO, TELEPHONED THE
MONTEVIDEO POLICE AT 171Q HOURS (MONTEVIDEO TIME) ON 22 NOVEMBER TO
REQUEST EXTRA POLICE PROTECTION FOR THE CUBAN EMBASSY. GUTTIEREZ
SAID THE EMBASSY: HAD RECEIVED REPORTS’ THAT A MOB“WAS PLANNING
TO STONE THE EMBASSY. ;- (FELD COMMENT: THE NEWS OF PRES,
KENNEDYS ASSASS INAT-]ON WAS’ RECEFVED * 1 N.MONTEVI DEOSAT
APPROX IMATELY: 169’ HOURS, MONTEVIDEO: TIME).

2, THE POLICE FURNISHED EXTRA-PROTECTION TO BOTH THE” CUBAN

EMBASSY AND-.TO THE ‘SOV ET: LEGAT | ON, “ALTHOUGH: THE LATTER’ HAD’
: SEC R E + “FRMASSIFICATION 2- DISSEMINATION conrnais ee
were : foes yet aes n is iid +
state/ing [ora [anmy/acsi] wavy | ain | ses [secver | sa | mic | alo [usta] oci [one] ocr ] one [Lexx 00 [exo |
STATE/OIR

TELEGRAM [DEaeh 9.) TO. EPORT TELEGRAM _

(15-20)

downgrodmg ond
Geclowtcovon

Tek 1K — opsoners previous EpITIONs.

HW 50955 DocId:32282903 Page 2


‘CLASSIFIGATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

secret NO FOREN pase |===30°"
SESRET FOE

| MADE NO REQUEST, AS OF 1692 HOURS 23 NOVEMBER THERE HAVE BEEN

NO DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST EITHER DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATION, “(FIELD
COMMENT: THE POPULACE OF MONTEVIDEO HAS BEEN PROFOUNDLY SHOCKED
AND. GRIEF STRICKEN-OVER PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION, A SPONTANEOUS
CROWD ESTIMATED BY PRESS TO COMPRISE 39% PERSONS
MARCHED TO AMERICAN EMBASSY RESIDENCE EVENING OF
22 NOVEMBER TO EXPRESS THEIR, SORROW).

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY-AIR ciNcso.

END_OF ‘MESSAGE.

‘CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET | el iS

HW 50955 DocId:32282903 Page 3

