(178-10002-10261) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT oF 1992 |

JK Assassination System 2
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Ageney Information

ROCKCOM ,
178-10002-10261

ASSASSINATION FILES

A-I(J) CORRESPONDENCE--ASSASSINATIONS,

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
CARGILL, MASON
FILE

DOCUMENTS FROM DPD FILES RE CUBAN OPERATIONS, 1959-61

05/21/1975
4

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT REQUEST, ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
CIA

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

MEMORANDUM
Secret

IB

Redact ©
07/07/1993

v9

MW 50955 Dochd: 32275472

ig
Page 1


SECKE |!

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500 yx
178-10002-10261 May 21, 1975

178-10002-10306
MEMORANDUM

To: File
From: Mason Cargill

Subject: DOCUMENTS FROM DPD FILES RELATED TO
CUBAN OPERATIONS DURING THE PERIOD 1959 ~ i961

Today, May 21, 1975, Joe Seltzer furnished me a
group of documents, totaling about one-q ter inch in thick-
ness, which were compiled by Frank. ef the DDO. These
are the documents described in paragraph two of the May 15, —
1975, memorandum from the Agency entitled "AMB Research of DPD
Files. Related to Cuban Operations." Paragraph two of this memo
reads: "A number of documents were found that referred to the
intent on the part of some Cuban teams operating inside Cuba to
attempt to assassinate Castro. . .Also, there is mention of the
air drop of Springfield rifles with telescopic sights."

Items of interest in this group of documents
are as follows:

1. Memorandum for the record, unsigned, undated,
Subject: "First Meeting of Branch Four Task Force, 9 March
1960." This memo outlines the meeting of the Branch Four
Group which apparently was to concern itself with covert
operations against Cuba. The memo relates that Colonel King
gave a briefing at this meeting, one aspect.of which was as
follows: "He said that unless Fidel and Raul Castro and “Che"
Guevara could be eliminated in one package--which is highly
unlikely--this operation can be a long, drawn out affair and
the present government will only be overthrown by the use of
force." There are no other references in this memo to elimina-
tion or assassination of Castro. It appears to be a general
discussion of necessary support for covert operations against

Cuba.
RMC:clb

SECRET

HW 50955 DocTd:32275472 Page 2

AUVAGIT CdOd °U GTWYID AHL WON KaODOLONG


SQVeEC]

. 2. Cable, dated August 30, 1960, from Headquarters
to JMADD. This cable reads as follows:

“1. Attempting obtain one helio. Expect
this to fulfill all operational and emer-
gency requirements.

2. RE REF B PARA 2B Do not approve.
Justification assignment this acft for
strict operational and emergency."

3. Cable, dated April 4, 1961, to BELL from RIMM.
This cable, written in Spanish, appears to be a request from
an agent within Cuba that certain equipment be air-~dropped to
him. Among the items requested in this cable, are one .50-
caliber machine gun, two boxes of Springfields with telescopic
sights, plus other weapons and rockets.

4. Cable, dated March 27, 1961, to BELL and RIMM
This appears to be another message from an agent within Cuba.
Written in Spanish, it is translated as follows: '

“March 23 I told Luis Bueno to ask you
opinion regarding sabotage Cia. Electricidad
(electric company) in order to leave Havana
ten days without power. We can coordinate

~ with attempt against Fidel in public appear-
ance (at) Sports Palace. Suggest attempt
against Fidel in accordance with general
plan. Light and Fidel possibly can be
coordinated with Pinar del Rio. Reply urgent.

Monty.”

5. Cable, March 29, 1961, from BELL to RIMM:
[Note that this cable and the preceeding one were also sent
to the DDP as an info copy.] This cable recounts another
message apparently received from an agent within Cuba. The
agent who sent this message had the cryptonym "NOTLOX." The
English translation of this cable reads as follows:

"Plan (4) 9 April. Fidel will talk at the
palace, Assassination attempt at said place
followed by a general shutting off of main
electric plants in Havana Veladura. Occupy

the public square, telephone company, atares
(arsenal) and MINFAR (Ministerio de Fuerzas
Armadas Revolucionario - Armed Forces Ministry).
Action throughout the entire island combined
(with) your debarkation at Salado and Santa
Maria (del) Mar. We need arms enter Havana.

SECLET

HW 50955 DocId:32275472 Paye 3

AUVdGIT GHOd “Y ATwago SHL Woda KaODOLOHA


SECRET

-~3e

We have sufficient men and courage. State
of mind desperate impossible to endure this
longer. Every day situation worse daily
arrest. We can blow up any electric company
at anytime. Consider what this represents
for us after the action. Answer before

1 April. Agent 2637."

6. Cable, dated April 5, 1961, to BELL from %RIMM.
This cable, an information copy of which was sent to the DDP,
transmitted a message received from an agent within Cuba,
whose cryptonym was NOTLOX. The English translation of this
message is as follows:

"Your message 15. Brand, Chacho, and Luis
only have arms for 50 men. Blowing up (of)
central electric plant and possibly attempt
on Fidel will be decidedly carried out

9 April. Once this (is) achieved impossible
to maintain clandestine organization in Cuba.
Your military aid is decisive. If it does
not come that date we are lost."

7. Cable, dated January 9, 1961, to JMBELL
from Guatemala. This cable reads in part as follows: "ESOLEO-1
was advised below-listed names provided by Guat secret service
with statement they all Cubans except as noted who are on way
or in Guat with mission assassination 5ESVE: #1 and “ESOLEO=1:"
[There follows a list of eight names. ] This cable apparently
reflects information received by the CIA that certain people
in Guatemala were targets of Cuban assassination plots....I
would speculate that the two acronyms, sESOLEOS 1 and ESVEHECLE-1,
refer to Cuban exile leaders who at that time were in training
in Guatemala for the Bay of Pigs mission.

8. Cable, dated June 4, 1961, to BELL from REMM,
info copy to DDP. This message transmits a message received
from the agent NOTLOX from within Cuba. Its English trans-
lation reads as follows:

"Functionary Italian Embassy by the name
of Moratori says he works for one intelli-
gence organization of yours, he says he is
in contact with Martin Elena and others
and that you have plans for invasion
within 30 days after killing Fidel, advise
if we can confide in Moratori.”

SECRET

HW 50955 DocIld:32275472 Paye 4

AUVdGIT GdOd “aA ATWARD FHL Wowa AaODOLOHa


This message would seem to indicate that an assassination plan
May have still been in existence in June of 1961, after the
failure at the Bay of Pigs and of the assassination attempt
discussed above. Apparently the agent NOTLOX was not arrested
in April, since he is still sending messages in June.

9. Cable, dated May 3, 1961, to BELL from JMRIMM.
This message transmits another one received from an agent
inside Cuba. The cryptonym of this agent was TEKLOK. The
English translation of the message reads as follows:

"We are contacting all groups (dos) to
organize one united front with a coordina~
tor. You name him or we elect him. Tell
us. Will try kill Fidel today. Andres Ox
but still hiding. His men gone to hill.
Want know and what can be used. (as revd)
Luis Jorge."

Note that this is a second agent within Cuba to
transmit a message dealing explicitly with the subject of
assassination.

It should be noted that I did not search the files
of the DDO to locate these documents. Rather they were
searched by DDO employees and these documents were compiled
by these employees and given to me through Joe, Seltzer.
Nothing in this package of documents would allow me to deter-
mine the true identities represented by the cryptonyms of the
addressors and addressees of the above messages. Nor is it
possible to identify the agents within Cuba identified by the
above cryptonyms. When I returned these documents to Seltzer,
I requested that he determine the true identities of the
possessors of these cryptonyms and also seek to ohtain copies
of any replies the CIA may have sent in response to these
messages coming out of Cuba relating to the assassination of

Fidel.

SECRET

RW 50955 DocId:32275472 Paye 5

WU aTwaao AHL HOWX AdOoDOLOHA

AWASIT Teor
