# 178-10002-10357

## Page 1

Date : 03/21/9

Page : :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : ROCKCOM

RECORD

• NUMBER: 178-10002-10357

RECORDS

SERIES : ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : A-II(A) CHRON--ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINAROR : RONKEFECER COMESSION

BUNDY, MC GEORGE

TITLE : CONFERENCE WITH MC GEORGE BUNDY, APRIL 8, 1975

DATE

: 04/08/75

SUBJECTS ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

BUNDY, MC GEORGE

OPERATION MONGOOSE

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY

HARVEY, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS : OPEN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/30/96

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Date: 07/10/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER : 1781000210357

RECORDS SERIES :

ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : A-II(A) CHRON--ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

FROM : BUNDY, MC GEORGE

TITLE :

CONFERENCE WITH MC GEORGE BUNDY, APRIL 8, 1975

DATE: 04/08/73

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

BUNDY, MC GEORGE

OPERATION MONGOOSE

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY

HARVEY, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: U

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : RO

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Unmarked but contains classified information.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

t-.....-

---

## Page 3

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

April 8, 1975

MEMORANDUM

TO

FROM

: The File

: David w. Belin

SUBJECT : Conference with McGeorge Bundy, April 8, 1975.

Mr. Belin: This is a memorandum of

Bundy on April 8, 1975, & conference with MeGeorge

Mr. Bundy has refreshed

PHOTOCO!

his recollection following his testimony before the Commission ont

April 7 and wishes to make some additions to the record.

Mr. Bundy: You asked me yesterday whether I had any recollection

of proposal in relation to the Castro regime and I think I said

I did not, and I did not as of yesterday.

had a

vague recollection which I cannot pinpoint in time that

there was discussion that I knew about at some time of a proposal

recollect ton™

or scheme or project that did involve poison, and, as I recall

THE GERALD

it, the characteristic that sticks in my memory is the--that

involved a rather large-scale use of poison and, as I recollect

it, it was

never approved.

ground and

onan the first instance on that practical

I think the second question whether it would have been g

approved, if it had been less hairbrained, was never reached.

And this is; I think, the way in which proposals or this sort,

Thich dia come from time to time, not just with respect to

assassinations but other proposals under the MONGOOSE scheme,

they were

reviewed in the first instance for practicability

and I don't--and only then after that for wisdom or political

LIBPARY

rightness, and I recall NO proposal for liquidation that ever

got past the first stage to the second.

Mr. Belin: I also talked to you, Mr. Bundy, about "whether or

not there might have

been any discussion in early 1961

a reguest from the White

executive action capability, which was defined as a general

stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.

Do you ever remember any discussions along those lines?

DECLASSIFIED

JFK Assass. Rec. Collection Act of 1992

CIA and NLE Review

, NARA date 120/9k_ By H9H

---

## Page 4

Mr. Bundy: Well, I recall the words "executive action

capability" more clearly today than I did yesterday,

and I think I said yesterday that they rang some sort of bell.

But I do NOT have any recollection as to when I knew about that

or who requested it or how much was done under it.

I don"t

recall having any continuing interest in or information about

that particular activity.

Mr. Belin: Do you recall that executive action capability was

in substance discussed as a general stand-by

capability to carry out assassinations at that time--I'm not

saying there was direction to undertake a plan but at least

the development of the stand-by capability?

MI. Bundy:

I think it was just that--an authorization to have

some kind of stand-by capability for action against

individuals.

PHOTOCOPY

MI. Belin: Now, I'm going to turn to the Summer of 1962. Before

we started this transcribing of your remarks you

indicated that you don't remember any specific plan pertaining to

attempted poisoning of any Cuban leader during 1961, but that you

do remember some discussions that may have developed into this

FROM THE

area sometime in 1962.

Is that accurate?

Mr. Bundy: Well, I think it is perhaps a slightly more precise

way of saying it is that you have described

a broad outline of plans as you understand them that existed in

January or February 1961 and I simply have no recollection of

GERALD R.

plans that meet that description. You don!t have one mind to

believe--and I believe my memory tells me in a more general way

that my knowledge of a scheme or idea of using poison relates to

year 1962.

Mr. Belin: Do you remember any discussions at any meeting of the

MONGOOSE group where this might have been discussed?

Either the general plan of possible liquidation or the particular

plan of poison?

Mr. Bundy: I don't have

any recollection of where.or how I heard

about the poisoning-a poisoning plan.

I know that--

at least I know that I never, knew of any approval

of such a plan.

My recollection is the opposite--that it was a hairbrain scheme

that did not receive approval even on the ground of practicability

as distinct from the ground of what you would make a final de-

cision to go ahead.

Now, as to meetings where such a thing might

have been discussed, the

only one I have any recollection of--and

it is a refreshed recollection--I would not have known about it

a month ago--is the one which we discussed yesterday on August 10,

1962 and I do NOT have any recollection of what specifically was.

said in that meeting.

---

## Page 5

3

Mr. Belin: Do you have any recollection that there was any

direction NOT to undertake any such plans?

Mr. Bundy:

I think there was--there was--a general attitude

toward this matter in which the Agency was permitted

to produce proposals and, although I recall nobody encouraging

them to do so, that may have happened, and as I said yesterday,

I draw a distinction between considering contingencies of this

sort and actually giving them approval. That I think is the way

in which the Kennedy Administration approached the matter. I

do not think there was a flat, general ban on considering such

possibilities.

Mr. Belin: Earlier, before we started taping, you said that if

there had been any spedific discussion of that, that

you were not a party to it and that it might have--

Mr. Bundy: A discussion of what?

Mr. Belin:

of a direction to carry out a plan, that you certainly

were not a party to such a discussion.

Is that what

you said?

PHOTOCOPY

Mr. Bundy: I am absolutely certain that I never knew of or

believed that there was any authorization to go

ahead with an effort to liquidate Castro, or any other Cuban

leader.

Mr. Belin: And I think that you also said that if there would

have been any such discussion and you said you knew

of none, it would have been directly between the President and

the Director of Central Intelligence--

THE GERALD R. FORD

Mr. Bundy: THAT's an inference. I don't know where else--who

else--would have sought the authority of the Agency

or who else could have given it from the White House.

LIBPARY

ME. Bolda:

Is there anything else that you want to add so far

as clarifying or correcting your testimony of

April 7 before the Commission?

Mr. Bundy:

the yesterday whether I had met Mr. Willian

Mr. Belin: Yes.

Mr. Bundy: --and I said I recollected the name and that I

thought I had seen him in large meetings. I can check

my appointment calendar which is the only document I have of

record from my Washington days and see whether I met him in

smaller meetings or alone if that would be helpful to you.

---

## Page 6

Mr. Belin: It would. I'd like to have you do it, please.

MI. Bundy: Fine.

Mr. Belin: OK. Well, thank you very much.

(END OF TAPE)

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

---

