JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

01/30/97
1

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

ROCKCOM
178-10002-10085
BELIN-GRAY-GREENE FILES

B-G-G (IV-Z) INTERVIEW WITH JUDD MCILVAIN

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM : BELIN, DAVID
TO : THE FILE
TITLE : INTERVIEW WITH MR. JUDD MCILVAIN
DATE : 00/00/75
PAGES : 18

SUBJECTS

OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO
CONSPIRACY THEORIES, CIA
BELIN, DAVID

MC ILVAIN, JUDD

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : OPEN
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/30/97

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Unmarked but may contain classified information.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 06/30/93
Page:1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :

BELIN-GRAY-GREENE FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

ROCKCOM fw is

1781000210085

B-G-G (IV-Z) INTERVIEW WITH JUDD MCILVAIN

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
BELIN, DAVID
THE FILE

INTERVIEW WITH MR. JUDD MCILVAIN

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
CIA

OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO

CONSPIRACY THEORIES,
BELIN, DAVID
MC ILVAIN, JUDD

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

TRANSCRIPT
U

Unmarked but may contain classified information.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500

MEMORANDUM:
TO: The File
FROM: David W. Belin

SUBJECT: Interview with Mr. Judd MclIlvain

Belin: Okay, I'm going forward here and trying to record our
conversation as we go forward so I'm going to ask you
to state your name and your phone number, If I can please.

Mellvain: Okay, my name is Judd Mcllvain. My phone number in
Houston is (713) 526-8811, that's my office phone number,

B: And you're with the television station there?

M: I'm with KHOU-Television and I'm in the news department.
Iam an investigative reporter.

B: Okay, now let me stop a minute and see if this thing is
working here, if we can.

M: * All right.

B: Well, it's working but not very well, so we'll go forward
and hope we can get it down here. As I understand it,

you said that some time ago, you better give me the approximate time

it occurred, that there was a woman that came to your office,

M: Right. That's what--to the best of my knowledge and the
knowledge of our former news director, in January of
February of 1968 a woman, whose name we cannot determine now,
came to our offices and wanted to talk to us. I was assigned to sit
down and talk to this woman. She was a woman in her late forties
or early fifties, kind of heavy set, I think a Jewish woman. She said

i]
=
3
§
3
my
g
2
w
Hd
E
E
g
z



she was from Dallas, Texas, originally in real estate business and
she had been employed by the CIA as a payroll courier or clerk, and
she would courie [sic] money from Dallas, Texas to operations of the
CIA in Mexico City or other areas in Latin America, She only
mentioned Mexico City specifically though, and she showed me papers
at that time which I looked at and they seemed authentic froma prison
in Mexico City, the women's prison in Mexico City D. F. and those
papers indicated that she had been in prison, as I recall, for four
years serving a term for illegal use of a credit card specifically an
American Express credit card which she said she was using as a

CIA credit card, I wasn't clear if it was issued to her or the CIA
but she said she used it for all her business expenses for the Govern-
ment and she sat down and told me a story that was very detailed

and she outlined the story of, you know, with all the facts and figures
that really surprised me that anyone would have those facts and
figures in their hands if they had been in prison for the last four
years in Mexico City and they dealt with the Kennedy assassination
and specifically with events leading up to the assassination in the
summer before the assassination.

B: Okay, now that was the summer before the assassination,
that would be the summer of 1963?

M: Yes sir,
B: Okay, and what did she say with regard to these events?
M: Well, with regard to these events - first she stated that

she just couldn't understand what the mystery was about
the Kennedy assassination and she said let me, you know, she says
I'm a CIA employee, let me explain to you what I was doing and she
said I just can't quite understand how, you know, the United States
could accept the Warren Report. She was very concerned about that
and then she outlined what she had been doing. She said in the summer
of '63 she was courieing money back and forth from Dallas, Texas,

KAWdGIT GHOd *YX GIWuID AHL KOUd AdOOOLOHA

B: At what intervals was she courieing money?

M: To the best of my knowledge it was something like on a
monthly basis. It might have been a bi-weekly basis,
I know it wasn't every week. I don't remember, it was either, it
was probably a monthly basis. ne


3
B: Okay.
M: I just, that wasn't a point that we stuck on, you know,
on real hard,
B: It was not more often than every other week and you

think probably was once a month but it may have been
once every two weeks that she supposedly went down there?

M: Right. Now, she said that she would go down ona
normal basis and she would meet people at different
locations that would be pre-arranged and she would simply given
them the check, They'd open the check, look at it, and give her a
receipt that they received the check. She said on different occasions
she had met persons at a, you know, an old race track, or at least
a race track that wasn't being used at that time. I think she said
south of Mexico City. I know she said just outside of Mexico City,
I think was south, and she said she met him there at one time and
paid off several people, you know, at one spot and she noticed at
that time that they were using the race track to put a car - drive a
car down the track; they would have - they had some people on the
ground on the track with walkie-talkies and some people up in the
stands and they were using binoculars and walkie-talkie - and rifle
siting, you know, sites to site down on the car and they were doing
some timing and moving the car up and down. She said, you know,
I just took it for granted they were working on some plan to, you
know, assassinate someone. You know, she said this very straight
forwardly like, you know, she didn't find that as a surprise, she
knew what her job was and that it didn't surprise her at all. So, she
said she had just heard rumors and talk around and she thought it
was a plan to assassinate Castro. That's what she told me. But,
she said though she didn't know that as a fact and no one had told her
that as a fact, it was just information that she picked around - and
picked up around and that's what she thought it was and it didn't
surprise her, So, she continued paying them through that summer
and then...

B: She continued paying whom through the summer?

M: The different - the different agents, I guess. The people
that she made the varied deliveries to, she didn't name

anybody but Oswald.

"9
z
3
g
2
E
bd
:
A
:



But, all right, go ahead,

M: Of course, I wouldn't have known anybody but Oswald.
B: Okay, go ahead,
M: Then she said she met Oswald once in a little coffee shop,

you know, like you sit out on a plaza reforma or something
like that, she may have said the Plaza Reforma and she sat down and
they both had a cup of doffee, and she gave him his check and he
opened it up and he was concerned about the amount and made some
mention to her, or something, and she said, you.know, she said the
standard thing she always says, you know, I have nothing to do with
the amounts or anything like that, I just deliver the money and he
was unahppy about it, and then the next time she met him at the same
location. ,.

B: Now, you mean the next time, you mean on the next trip
she took?
M: The next trip, right. The next regular pay period when-

ever that was and gave him his check again and he opened
it up and this time he was more vocal about his displeasure about
what was the amount of the check and that's when he made his comment
about if X number of dollars were not in the next pay envelope or the next che
then Kennedy is not going to die on schedule. I almost remember her
saying that on schedule and then she was very concerned because
she know - she knew she showed some surprise, that she didn't mean
to, she was trying to keep her composure and not show any surprise
but she was, you know, surprised because she didn't know anything
about that or hit her as a surprise. She was afraid that Oswald then
realized that she was, you know, on the inside and she didn't know and
that was according to her very frightening because she didn't know then
who she could trust and she went back to Dallas and continued on
and didn't do anything about it I think for several weeks and then she
decided to write a letter to the only person in government she said
she'd ever met and that was - who did I tell you it was? I forgot who
it was.

AaVddIT quod et QTWYa9 AHL WOWd AdODOLOHA

B: You mentioned to me it was Adalai Stevenson,


B: And was that within a few weeks after this trip
down in the summer of 1963 or was this after the
Kennedy assassination that she supposedly wrote...

M: Okay, now, listen, again I'm working from my
memory. I don't honestly remember if she said
she wrote the letter before or after, I really don't remember.

- B: It was either before the Kennedy assassination...

M: It had to be, it had to be before she went to prison.

She went to prison before - so it had to be before
the Kennedy assassination, If he actually died then, I don't know
when he died, I have no idea when he died.

B: Well, she said though, that he died and didn't return
the correspondence, or what did she say?

M: She said he died and she was concerned about, you
know, what happened to the correspondence and whose
hands it might fall into, and that concerned her quite a bit.

B: Well now, did she say she went to prison before the
Kennedy assassination?

M: Repeat the question, I'm sorry I didn't understand
it.
B: Did she say she, that she went to prison before the

Kennedy assassination?
M: As Lunderstood it, yes.
B: You better repeat because, as to what the occadon
was of her going to prison because I don't think we
have this down on the tape because I think that's something you

mentioned before I had started taping the recordings.

M: Right.

(End of tape 1)

°ud GIwdaS AHL WOUI AdOOOLOHA

$
6
5
;



M: Now, you see now these times are not my times
they're her times...

B: I understand.

M: The way I remember then so if I'm a little shakey
on the times going from about five years and you
know second or third hand, well second hand from her. Okay,
she said she was concerned; she wrote the letter and then he died
and she wasn't sure whatever happened to the correspondence; she
was concerned about that but apparently not enough concern to
quit work and she continued her regular job and, then one night,
in Mexico City with her roommate, as I said she worked with
another woman, they worked in pairs, ina pair, and they were
in their apartment, or hotel room, I don't know which one it was,
and someone broke in; there was a fight and there were shots and
as far as she knows her roommate was killed because, you know,
she fled, she didn't stay around to see if she was dead or not but
as far as she understood the woman was dead. And, she went
to a hotel; she stayed there for a week and then she was arrested
by Mexican authorities on charges of misuse of a credit card.
She went to jail; she called the U.S. Embassy or the Consular
section of the Embassy in Mexico City; they said don't worry about
it, we'll get you an attorney and we'll send someone from the
Consular Section and they'll meet you in court and all that sort of
thing. She said that she went to court and the man from the
Consular section was the man that had broken into the apartment
and that was the only person she knew in the whole room and that
made her very concerned because she realized that, she really
had a problem and her Mexican attorney pleaded her guilty, or
something like that, and she said that she didn't understand too
well because there was a lot of Spanish and she doesn't speak
Spanish, but they were translating for her, But she said her
Mexican attorney hired by the U.S. Embassy made the judge
angry and the judge got very angry and the judge asked her if
she would rather just deal with him and she said yes and so she
dealt directly with the judge. Apparently the judge didn't seem to
think that she was getting very good representation or something
on that order, That's very foggy in my memory and she didn't
dwell on that, she just kind of went right by it. Anyway, then she
went off to prison for a sentence of apparently four years because
that would make it just about the right time she would come out
of prison and be in Houston, Texas the beginning of '68,

°ad GIWYaS AHL WOWd AdOOOLOHA

AUWdaIT quod

ra


And, as I understand it, then in the beginning of
'68, then after she got out of prison, she then

contacted you.

B:

M: I don't, I don't know the time frame from the time
she got out of prison to the time she got to Houston.

As I recollect it wasn't a long period of time that she flew
to Houston. I said why didn't you go to Dallas if you have
friends and stuff in Dallas and she said that was one of the
reasons she wasn't going to Dallas because all her contacts
and the people she had worked for were in Dallas and she
named off quite a few people that had since been killed or
had accidents or something like that you know. And, of
course can't remember the names of those people. I didn't
even know the’ too well then because I'm not a scholar on
the Kennedy assassination by any means at all but, she

ran down quite a few names of people that had been involved,
and I had read about, that they had been killed or some-
thing happened them; the strange deaths and she said she
didn't want that to happen to her and that's why she hadn't
gone back to Dallas and I asked her what she was going to
do with the information because I couldn't use it because
it was nothing to prove there which were all allegations
and she said well, she didn't know really what she'd do
with it. That she had, oh wait, I missed, I missed a vital
point there. While she was in prison she had written

some letters to Garrison and she was very unhappy with Mr.
Garrison because she said that he used the information she
had given him in personal letters for sensationalism and
everything and she was very down on him. She didn't want
publicity or anything like that she was like (ha, ha) if

I may use the wrd like a “civil servant" type person,

you know, with the government, you know, no publicity or
anything like that - that type and she was very unhappy
with the information that she claimed Garrison had used

from her letters and she said that's why she quit writing

him about it. --she was corresponding.

B: Did she say anything else?

M: She sat and talked for an hour and forty-five
minutes. I'm doing the best I can to recall.

B: One thing before I start taping, you mentioned that

Oswald had a job down in Mexico City or of the two
different trips she was down there to see him, was he working
there or what?

y
:
°
9
«
2
9
®
8
=
Bw
:
o
x

AUWdaIT aqyoa


M: Well, as I understood from her he was working for
the CIA.

B: Was he working for the CIA in Mexico City?

M: Right. That's why she was down there paying him.

Right. She never - that's what she was so amazed;
she kept saying, I'm so amazed, he has been an employee of
the CIA for so long, you know, what, you know, how come
someone can't find this out.

B: Well, what I'm trying, in other words, we're trying

to take a look at the allegations that would
theoretically bring the jurisdiction of our Commission, as
I understand what you're saying, she claimed that Oswald
was working for the CIA in Mexico City...

M: That's right.

B: And that she was in Mexico City that she saw him on

two different occasions which would have then, if
not at least one month apart, at least two different weeks
apart. In other words, during the summer of 1963 she saw
him on at least two different occasions.

M: Right. Then also saw him in combination with several
people out there at that race track.

B: Would that have been on another occasion she was down
there or...

M: No. On another occasion, right. On two occasions
were at the sidewalk cafe. Another occasion she
told me about was earlier, before the sidewalk cafe.

B: All right. That would be at the race track where
they were supposedly sighting with guns with tele-
scopic sites?

M: Right, and they were running a car down this, down
like down between the bleachers, you know, and they
had people in the bleachers. She said they talked on walkie-
talkies and they moved up a couple of bleachers and moved
down a couple of bleachers. They, she said, they had a
couple of people siting on the - in the, on the ground

you know...

°a GIwaqS AHL WOYA AdODOLOHA

+)
fo}
g
Fi
cd



B: And that basically means that Oswald, if her trips

were once a month, that means that Oswald then would
have been in Mexico City at least two months. If her trips
were every two weeks, that means Oswald would have been in
Mexico at least one month. There will be three trips, two
weeks apart.

Ms I got the idea there were several months, I'm sorry,

I didn't - God, I wish I had asked her how often did
you pay the man, but I didn't ask her then, but I got the idea
it was several months. It wasn't just like one month, or
anything.

Bs Did she say she paid him in'cash or in checks?
Ms Oh God. I"m pretty sure she said cash.
Bs Now, when you say the summer of 1963, what month are

you talking about, or was she talking about?

Ms She talked about the summer. I don't think she

prayed much to it, if she did I've forgotten. I
don't remember the specific months. She might have said,
telling, you know, I think I asked her something, how long
was this going on, you know, and I think she might have said,
well, that's what she talked about, she said the race track,
well, you know, I've been down there, you know, many times,
something like that, that's when they were doing the race
track situation - trying to give me some idea of the timing
involved - how many months. So I know it wasn't just one
month or something like that,

B: All right. So, it would appear there were several
months that he was down there, according to her. Now,

when did she say, again, she went into prison? Do you know

if she wrote to Stevenson and then she said she that Stevenson

died, or something like that?

M: Yeah. As I remember she said you know the man died
and...

B: Was she in prison then at the time of the Kennedy
assassination?

Ms Yeah. Apparently yes, she was in prison at the time

of the assassination. And this is the way I recall
the sequence of events.

“a GIwadS AHL WOUd AdODOLOHA

AUWVdGIT aaos



10

Bs And, did she say how long after she wrote to
Stevenson, let's see, well, you had better give me
the sequence of events on that again.

(End of tape 2)

M: As I recall, she found out about it, that, she could,
you know, from, by mistake from Oswald, and then she

continued her job and she, if you don't mind, I'm sorry, I'm

thinking dates, its been a while. Well, as I was saying,

she continued to work as normal, she was trying to pretend

like she didn't know anything, but she was, you know, just,

you know, getting the word about everybody, she was worried

that someone would think that she did know and that she wouldn't

look right, you know, or that she'd do something wrong, suggest

she'd do something and she was very bothered about it. Then

she said she wrote a letter to Adalai Stevenson and then, as

I remember, she said he died. I should have checked right

then, I guess, to figure out when he died but...

B: Then after he died, then what happened?

M: Well, then, then she continued and then she went to
Mexico City on one of these trips and she was staying
in the hotel or the apartment with her roommate and that's
when them, or someone broke in, and there was a gun shot and
everything and her roommate, as far as she knows, is dead, or
was killed that night, and she fled. She said she fled out a

window.
Bs And then what?

M: Then she went to a hotel and she didn't have, you
know, hardly any clothes or anything; she went to the

hotel...

B: Did she tell you what hotel?

M: Well, if she did, I don't remember, you know.

B: All right.

M: She used a credit card at the hotel because she didn't

have any cash and she lived on the credit card for
about a week and then the Mexican authorities showed up and
arrested her for misuse of the credit card. They said it
had been cancelled.

he]
g
3
Q
12}
~
K
ny
a
g
a
a
2
3
8
B
5
ta


11

B: Then what happened.

M: Then she went to jail; called the U.S. Consul

or the Embassy, one of the two, I think she said
she called the Consular ction of the Embassy and explained
that she was a CIA agent, you know, an employee, she never
said - she never used the word agent, she used the word
employee, and that she had been picked up for:misuse of
a credit card, which was issued her as an employee. But
I never got it straight if it was in her name of CIA's
name. And, they said, well there must be a misunder-
standing, don't worry about it, wetll have somebody
from the @nsular section come over, he' will get you an
attorney and the whole thing. And she said she didn't
hear from him for a day or so and then she went to court,
and they were in court, and they had an attorney, 4
Mexican attorney, to represent her.

The Mexican attorney really didn't represent her,

B:
you told m.
M: Right, well that was her - that's what she said...
B: Right, and then she said...
M: And that the judge seemed to be upset because the

Mexican attorney wanted to plead her guilty without any
defense and then she, I remember she used the term "I
threw myself on the mercy of the court" and she used that
term. I don't know if she really did that or not. She
was very upset about this. She said, you know, she was
really being railroaded, 50, she was a little, not
emotional about it, just stating the game, but she was

explaining to me like, you know, they were railroading
me and Ithrew myself on the mercy of the court; the
judge dealt with me directly and gave me four years,

which I think is a long time.

B: And she was in prison, she was in prison at the
time of the Kennedy assassination after that?

M: Apparently so, right.

B: Anything else that you can think of, whether I've

asked it °F not, that you can think of that would
be in any way relevant to this woman or her story?

“ad GIWaaS AHL WOUd AdOOOLOHA

3
g
z



lo

M: Well, the things that can be relevant - the reason that I haven't
said anything about this for a long long time is because I kept
raising the fact that, you know, she's a Madam X, nobody knows who
she is. But, then, we started thinking about this; maybe she should
be traced down and there could be, you know, I was thinking of the
different ways we could trace back to the prison; through the U.S.
Consular section in Mexico City, they couldn't have had that many
citizens of the United States, U.S. Government employees go to prison.

B: She was in her forties or fifties, she was Jewish, she was an
American, she lived in Dallas, she supposedly worked with
the CIA. Can you remember what her physical ‘description was?

M: Yes, she was kind of a portly woman. She may not have been

Jewish, that may be just a bad memory of mine but I thought
she was - I didn't say "are you Jewish?" Maybe I got that from her
name but I can't remember her name now So that wouldn't help me.
She said she had worked in real estate.

B: All right, then...

M: She said, you know, I was a pretty well known person in Dallas

real estate business and she said to me, she said I'm not just
a kook or a nobody, I was pretty well known and that's why I worked
with the CIA and that's how I got my job.

B: All right, now, supposedly Oswald said that Kennedy wasn't
going to be killed on schedule. Did he mention that it was in Dallas or
not?

M: She said Dallas, right. Kennedy was not going to be killed on

schedule in Dallas if they didn't come through with the money
they promised him. So she mentioned the amount because I remember
she mentioned the amount but now I can't remember...

B: Was it more than a thousand or less than a thousand.
M: It certainly was more than a thousand, but I can't remember
how much.

B: Was it more tha five thousand if you recall?

AUVdGIT Gdod *aY GTWYaD AHL WONT AdODOLOHA


13

M: Sorry, I really can't remember a figure because it was like
there were supposed to be so many thousands added to each

check over a period of time that's why he was saying - hey, they

didn't do it this time, they didn't do it last time, they still haven't

done it, just like, you know, they were supposed to add ao mucy money

to his regular check over a certain period of time, that's why I don't

have the exact figure.

B: So the check, each check was to be one or more, several
thousand dollar more than it was, is that what you're saying?

M: Yeah, something like that, right.
B: Okay, anything else you can think of, whether I've asked it or
not?

M: I'm trying to think, but this woman, she had, she looked like
she was somebody's grandmother, you now. But, she looked
like a businesswoman in a way, you know. She did have the paperwork
from the Mexican prison, release papers. I happen to read and write
Spanish and speak Spanish and the release forms said that she was
being released from the woman's prison and she had served her time,
in which in Mexico you serve the whole thing, no good time off, she
served the whole period of time and she was being released and she
tad no friends. Now that, she showed me that, that's the only paper-
work the woman had. She was in Dallas, I don't think she was married.
If she did, she never said anything about it, or if she was, she was
diverced a long time ago and she worked with another woman employee
out of Dallas; she said she was good friends with the police chief in
Dallas and she knew a lot of people in the police force in Dallas and
she just smiled when I asked her about Tippet, Officer Tippet, or
her police department involvement and, you know, they were so involved
how could they not be involved in it and the part about Officer Tippet
and Oswald, you know, was only guess work on her part but she said
that because Oswald had been giving them so much trouble and, you
know, just wasn't playing the game the way he was supposed to be and
he was complaining and getting in a lot of trouble that she felt that -
now these are just her thoughts about it, you know, she's just guessing
at this - that they set him up too because, you know, to take the fall,
as she put it, to take the fall in the Kennedy assassination because he
was, you know, giving them so much trouble and then she thought how

Hd

AMWVdGIT GUOd *a ATWaAD AHL WOT Ado:


k that one person would do this.
fessional operation they certainly
wouldn't have one marksman, they would at least have three, if not
more, because if they were a professional group - she went through
all this, laid all this out for me, you know, she kept saying over and
over, "how can anyone believe that this is how it happened because it
just doesn't make any sense." Of course, she had a lot more informa-
tion that a normal person would have probably.

ridiculous it was for anyone to thin’

She pointed out that in any pro’

B: Anything else you can think of?
M: Well, let me qualify this all by remembering what this woman
told me. ,
B: I understand.
M: Only a second hand first hand knowledge. I
ably repaying it, she

—_——————
have to admit, and this is why I'm pro
I went down to the news directory and said, you

r, you know, just making all this up,
ly has it down pat and since she was
hell of a lot of studying of U.S.

ese facts down and, but, because
"what are you going to do?"

" She said, 'Disapprear,

did impress me.
know, if this woman is a kook o
boy, she's convincing, she reall
in prison and she must have done a
newspapers or something to get all th
she was so genuine about it, IT asked her
And she said, "I'm just going to disappear.
or if I make an issue, I won't last very long."

B: Anything else that you can remember?

Ms I think you have pretty well sucked out my brain, I'll probably

remember a dozen more things when Lees

B: Now, you got my name from someone in the White House....

't know whether -- Pete Rossell and Pete works

M: Yes, I didn
Advisory Section to the President

at the Political Section,
and I forget who else set this up.

B: Who else do you think it might have been?

M: What do you mean?

°ad @IveaIS AHL WOUd AdOOOLOHA

xaWAGIT quoi


a E_———rlrl—etfsS—e

15

one else at the White House or is that who

B: Was there any
you think it was?

M: No, that is who it is.

B: All right, well...-

Pete, I talked to Pete about this and he said ''well you know

M:
you really ought to talk to someone on the Commission,"
and I said 'Yeah, but I don't want to call somebody out of the blue,
ym Houston."' I said, 'I don't

jdiot is calling fro
and so he said "Well let me,
uu at your office.

they'll think some

want to do that," let me get to Dave. Ww

He said he was going to talk to yo!

B: Well, let me now see jf [have this, if this is really recording.
cou hold the phone another

Lhope Ican, Just a second, Can y!

minute or two?
M: Sure.

(Pause)
t ease, we have - we have investigated,
en made alleging CIA

ve said that we have

s involved and

Just to put your mind a’
of course, every allegation that's be
n the ssassination. Thus far, I'
e which shows that the CIA wa:
that Oswald was in any manner an employee oF agent of the CIA.
There have been other people that have alleged this although no one
has claimed that someone had actual conversations at the personal
of the CIA employee and what I'm going to do is to

ee
try and run down this allegation to see if the..-+

B:

involvement i
found no criminal evidenc

RaW .
'dadIT Gdod “a GIWaAS AHL WONT AdODOLOHA

Pete Rossell at the
at the -- that's where
the White House

this Pete, just call
't mind, but not
You are at

M: If you can find out,
White House if you don
I keep thinking you're not there.

/ et
B: Well, I'm at, I'm within a half plock of the White House.
M: All I know is the switchboard answers white House.'' whew A&
B: Right.
ae
s


16

M: If you don't mind, you might want to talk to Pete about me
so that you have some understanding what this is all about.

I feel kind of strange explaining this to you because I have no

proof. I don't even remember the lady's name. You know, I can

kill myself; as an investigative reporter that I didn't have the lady's

name,

B: Well, I wish you did have the lady's name because it would
make our job here easier to try and run down a specific
name as opposed to a generalname. The problem is basically
with your story is several fold. Number one, the Warren Com-
mission knew where Oswald was during the summer of 1963 and
he was in New Orleans that entire time and didn't leave for Mexico
City until he was in there the latter part of September, the last
few days of September and he only made one trip down there so
he would't have been down there on a so-called track or running
assassination sitings on some kind of a race track with rifles,
So that is something that the Warran Commission found and I
think he had almost pay-check-by-pay-check
and they also had different people at the farm during the summer
of 1963, The other thing is that...

KAVdaIT Guod °Y ATWYaS AHL WOYA AdODOLOHA

M: Did you get paid by check then and not by cash?

B: Pardon?

M: Did he actually sign a pay check?

B: When I said pay check?

M: Yeah, who do you mean by paycheck?

B: I mean that Oswald would have gotten - we know where he

was and where he worked during the summer of 1963.
M: Oh, I see. now.

B: And when he worked he would have gotten paid by check,
Ibelieve. Now, I was not intimately involved in that
aspect of the Warren Commission investigation as to the summer
of 1963 except that I do know from the lawyers that were involved
from the Warren Commission that he was in New Orleans during


17

the entire summer of '63. The other aspect of it, apart from the
fact that it's inconceivable, of course, to believe that a government
agency would be doing that, you'd still have to check the rumors.
But there are a number of other discrepancies in the woman's
story when with the facts that, I mean independent facts, that you
related which would mean that the story would not check out and
that undoubtedly the story is inaccurate, but nevertheless, I'm
still going to ehck out to see whether or not they had any people

in Dallas during 1963 who were couriers for money in Mexico...

M: I'd hate to think you'd pin me too close to the month
because boy, I'm just doing this from a very shakey
memory but I do tend to remember it was sometime in the sum-
mer. It may have lapped over but I'm sure she was talking about
summer or summer months and maybe it lapped over into the fall.

B:] Well, there are ether inaccuracies in the factual statements
that you related to me but in any event I am going to check

out to see whether or not the Agency had any, without checking

out, you know, I'm not going to go through the whole story. I'm

going to go forward and find out first of all whether or not the

people had any couriers that were courieing money down to Mexico

City from Dallas in 1963 without relating it to the Kennedy assassina-

tion just to find out what those facts were and do some independent

investigation on that. If they have none I think that would probably

cooberate at least the fact that this - probably a story of which

there were many. I remember from the Warren Commission days

there were all kinds of people that had all kinds of stories that

were practically fantasy.

M: This is the first person I ever heard though that claimed
that they were employees. That's what - that would be
easy to eheck.

B: Well, I'm going to check that one out and I appreciate your
taking the time to call it in. We will check it out.

M: Would you mind telling me if anything comes of it. I'd
sure like to know.

B: Yes, If anything comes of it I will let you know.

M: Okay, I'd like to call you back in about a month or so

just to check with you if you don't mind,

B: That's fine.

KUWdGIT dod ‘a CIWaIS FHL WOT AdODOLOHA


18
ht.
That's fine.
All right.
All right....
If you want to get ahold of me I'm at that phone number, right.
Right.
Okay. Thank you very much.

Bye, Bye.

KAWdGIT Gdod °a GIWuaS AHL NOUd AdODOLOHA
