(178-4 0004-10148]

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

8/2 7/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: DAVIS
RECORD NUMBER: — 178-10004-10148
RECORD SERIES: GENERAL SUBJECT FILE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: — INTEL. INVESTIGATIONS--MISC. B, OCT.1975 (3)
Document information
ORIGINATOR: = WH
FROM: RATLIFF, ROB ROY
TO: SCOWCROFT, BRENT
TITLE: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT REQUEST FOR MAIL INFORMATION
DATE: 10/14/1975
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS =

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

OPERATION MONGOOSE

MEMORANDUM
Secret

Ic

Redact
08/69/1993

No attachments.

val

28 |

HW 50955 Docld:32105870 Page 1 A


Derrecea] 7 . \

MEMORANDUM EY’ ES 0 \
THE WHITE HOUSE OUTSIDE SYSTEM
: WASHINGTON INFORMATION

TOP SECRET/SENSITIVE Attachments -

g EE October 1975

ea

So

7

g MEMORANDUM FOR: GENERAL SCOWCROFT 4

=)

S FROM: ROB ROY sarees Gh /

: .

co]

5s SUBJECT: Justice Department Request for Mail Information

' Jeanne Davis transmitted to me a request from the Department of Justice to
survey 40 Committee and predecessor group files to determine any information
of a list of subjects focused on operations involving mail. She asked that I
transmit my findings directly to you.

Tassume that Justice is interested in illegal use of the mails. As I understand
CIA's admitted activity in this field, it was an intelligence collection operation
and therefore would not be subject to review by the 40 Committee or its
predecessors. We find no record that mail intercept operations were discussed
by the 40 Committee or predecessors; however, there are references to mail
operations in Committee records,

Jeanne Davis said Justice wanted material on "any use of mail techniques."
These are representative items:

TAB A--Reports which indicate general mailings of propaganda and
related material. There is nothing sinister in this--you put a book
or pamphlet in an envelope, address it, put on postage and drop it in
the mail.

TAB B--Letters were test mailed inside a denied area to see if they
come out, or individuals mailed spontaneous letters to CIA-supported
enterprises. Again, there is nothing unusual about this--regular use
of the mail system,

TAB C-- Special covert operations which make use of the mails, including:

C-1--A forged letter mailed in

C-2--Mailing of ]
However (see page 5 of 9 May 1972 item), some of these letters
may have been inserted into the mail system ostensibly as having
originated in the denied area. CLASSIF: i

TOP SECRET/SENSITIVE Attachments ~~

EYES b ui Sy 5 vate OPy

ig,
“bhp,

HW 50955 Docld:32105870 Paye 2


TOP SECRET/SENSITIVE Attachments -2-

C-3.-Some covert operations using the mail may have been desioned

| Note that the last item in this group (17 and
10 January 1972) refers to ‘letter-insert mechanisms." I can find
no elaboration of what this means, but it might represent intercent _
of the mail,

C-4--National Intelligence Estimates and other reports of intelligence
may refer to information, some part of which was gleaned from mail
intercepts, On the basis of protecting sources and methods these
would not normally be identified in a document. However if the
question were asked at a meeting, the source might be orally identified
as a mail intercept (or SIGINT or whatever).

C-5--This category represents one trst tem eee pol
Leen Teer UENO TFOMT FFOURE-UAH, * Vietnam to other °

mi groups in North Vietnam to other
countries. The second shows|
1

In each of the C-5 eases, operational information was probably gleaned
from a mail intercept operation which would enable one tol

C-6--Here are two cases where the Committee was informed that mail
intercepts were the source of information used in support of covert
operations. .

With regard to MONGOOSE files--which Mrs. Davis said Justice also wanted us
to check--I find only the references at TAB D which suggest the possibility that
mail intercept operations were a part of the response to intense pressures for
more "hard' information on what was going on in Cuba,

He

te,

&& "9,
Falelane “hey fin, Oy
i agit

TOP SECRET /SENSITIVE Attachment”

iy,

EYES ONLY Oe,

HW 50955 Docld:32105870 Page 3


EYES

TOP SECRET ‘SENSITIVE Attachments -3-

Mrs. Davis also said that Justice made reference to Walt Rostow's recollection
of a general survey of all "intelligence programs country by country" made by
the 303 Committee. I assume he means the general beginning-of-a-new-
President's-term roundup (similar to the ones given Mr. Nixon and Mr. Ford).
We find references to covert action reviews, but these appear to have been oral
and we find nothing in writing, and no references to mail operations.

In summary, we have made a review of our files, with special reference to the
general index of minutes and the country files deemed most likely to include
references to ''any use ‘of mail techniques." Representative findings are cited
above. We find no record of "illegal'' mail operations being a subject of dis-
cussion or consideration within the 40 Committee and predecessor organizations
(December 1958 to the present), However, there is evidence that the Committee
was informed that mail intercept operations were conducted (TAB c-6).

Please advise if any additional material or presentation is desired.

Attachments
TABs A-D .

TOP SECRET/SENSITIVE Attachments

EYES ONLY

HW 50955 Docld:32105870 Page 4
