# 178-10002-10469

## Page 1

178-10002-10469

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JK Assassination System

8/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER:

178-10002-10469

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (5)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

DCI

HARVEY, WILLIAM K.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/10/1962

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

re intelligence source

v9.1

HH 50955

DocId: 32204646

Page

1

90

---

## Page 2

178-10002-10469

Lat low

EORET,

20:622

10 July 1962

D-22

MEMORANDUN FOR:

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

Director of Centrol Intelligence

Deputy Director (Plans) yet

Juana (Juanita) CASTRO Ruz

1.

ACTION: None.

This memorandum is for your informa-

tion.

2.

In connection with Task Force l efforts to split the

Cuban

leadership,

some

time ago we targeted Juana: Castro Ruz,

halfesisterofFidel.and Raul Castro-Ruz.

A number of reports

have been received indicating that

Juana Castro tRuz opposed

the strong communist nature of the

Cuban regime and was

prepared,

at least to some extent, to cooperate with anti-

regime elements. In May 1962 we reestablished contact with and

and a long time personal

Iriend of Juana: Castro Ruzi

On 11, June 1962, on our

instructions,

proceeded to Havana where she maintained frequent contact

with Juaña.Cas.tro.Ruz and other

prominent Cuban leaders until

1 July 1952.

She discussed the current regime quite frankly

with

Juaha Castro Ruz and,

according to

she

obtained Juana's agreement to provide intelligence on the

Cuban political leadership and

to work

against the Cuban

communist regime, short of

engaging in activity which might

result

in

direct personal harm tophencbrothers: Raulpand Fidel.

According

to

Juania has agreed

to proceed

to

Mexico

the l

Onited States

In

this connection and return to

Cuba after discussions with

"the Americans"

4. He are making the necessary arrangements with

to have Juana Castroshuz proceed to Mexico as

soon as possible in order that we may attempt. a direct re-

cruitment.

You will be kept advised of any future develop-

ments of importance in this

case.

FORD

LIBRAR

Willian darnes

WILLIAN K. HARVEY

C/TFW

SEORET

2E eul

FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD

LIBPARY

WH 50955 DocId:32204646 Page 2

---

