Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

03/21/96
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

ROCKCOM

178-10002-10322

ASSASSINATION FILES

A-I(I) INTERVIEWS RE ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
BELIN, DAVID

FILE

TELEPHONE INTERVIEW WITH DR.
05/17/75

EDWARD GUNN

6

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
cIA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED

OPEN IN FULL

OPEN
01/31/96

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED



Date:07/09/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 1781000210322

RECORDS SERIES :
ASSASSINATION FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : A-I(I) INTERVIEWS RE ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM : BELIN, DAVID
To : FILE
TITLE :
TELEPHONE INTERVIEW WITH DR. EDWARD GUNN [R]

DATE : 05/17/75

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

cIA
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED ~
CURRENT STATUS : RO
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Unmarked, but may include classified information.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500

May 17, 1975

MEMORANDUM

TO : The File

FROM : David W. Belin

SUBJECT : Telephone Interview with Dr. Edward Gunn

Belin: ---now, I'm going to get another 'phone while one
of the men of my staff, Mason Cargill, is going to

hold this up to the receiver, then I'm going to get another

'

phone.

Dr. Gunn, are you on again here?
Gunn: Yes.

B: All right. Well, we are recording this telephone

conversation which is taking place on the 17th day
of May 1975, at approximately 1:00 o'clock, Eastern Daylight
Time. My name is David Belin, Executive Director of the CIA
Commission, and I've called you, we've talked informally on
the 'phone, and you've checked back to make sure that I am
who I say I am, and now we are going on the record. I am
going to ask you some questions pertaining to some matters
which took place while you were with the CIA some years ago.
I'd first like to get--your name is Edward Gunn?

G: That's ‘correct.

B: And you reside right now in Hilton Head, South Caro-
lina?

G: That's correct.

B: And if we want to mai) you--not if you want to--we

will mail you a transcript or a copy of the trans-
cript, where should we mail it, Doctor?

G: P.O. Box 5264, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
29928.
B: Now, Dr. Gunn, when did you first become employed

with the Agency?
ACLASSIV IED
us £ 1992

WY, Asaar's. ac. ‘i
Se sci oad NUE Rows mar
NARA date_|zilae__ By_4__—

AUVdGIT Guod *-Y ATWYXD AHL WONT AdODOLOHA


oro

G: 1955,

B: And are you a Ph.D. or a medical doctor?

G: I'm a physician.

B: And you were in the Technical Services Division
of the Agency?

G: I was not.

B: In what area were you?

G: I'm a medical officer.

B: Oh, vou were the medical officer for the Agency?

G: Yes.

B: And when did you leave the Agency?

G: I retired in--well, I think now is--1971.

B: Approximately.

G: Yes.

B: Now, I'm going to ask you for some events which go

back in the period to 1959-60-61, in that era, so
we are talking about events that took place some years ago,
and I appreciate the fact that your recollection might not
be precise, but I'm going to ask you to at least tell me
whatever facts you have to the best of your recollection
if you could.

G: Yes.

B: I'll--We talked about the development of pills which
might have contained a type of poisoning which were

developed inside the Agency for possible use against a speci-

fic foreign leader. Were you aware of any such development?

G: I was aware that certain--or a pill--was prepared,
but I have no way of knowing what was in the pill.

B: Do you have any knowledge of at whose direction the
pill was prepared?

“a GIWaaIS AHL WOYd AdODOLOHA

AYWddIT quod

G: I would have to suppose--it would have to be supposed. '

They did put me by--where--I would say probably
Mr. Bissell.


3+

B
B: Did you have any conversations with Mr. Bissell,

or is this just your assumption? If you can remember.
G: Well, the Technical Services Division came under

Mr. Bissell, and I was aware--I believe I was aware
of his interest or his knowledgeability after the pill had
been prepared.

Br Were you aware of the knowledgeability--the know-
ledge of Mr. Dulles at the time?

G: No, I was not.

Br: Were you aware of the knowledge of possibly any
people in the White House*at the time?

G: No, I would not be in a position to know that.

B: Now, you do believe that the pills were developed,

Is that correct?

G: I know that some pills were made available and I

know that at least one set--I don't know--I know
that there were pills prepared, yes, but I--exactly the
content I would have no way of knowing.

Br To the best of your recollection, were the pills--
would they have been fatal if taken by a human
being?

G: Well, since I had been interested in the protection

of human beings against such things, why I did test
them against some guinea pigs, and at least one batch did not
have any effect on guinea pigs.

Bs But there was a subsequent batch that did?

G: A subsequent batch, one out of four guinea pigs did
depart.

B: Do you remember about what time, whether this was in

1959, or 1960 or 61 or 62, any particular time that
stands out in your mind?

G: No, I would say it was probably in the '59 or '60
time, rather than the 60-61.

B: Do you know whether or not these--there were ever
anything other than these pills prepared that might
have--for use against a human being? a particular
human being -- such as a foreign leader?

AUWdaIT Gdod ‘a GIwadS FHL WOUd AdODOLOHA


-4- o

G: I believe that this same-the substance that I was told
was in the pills was applied--or supposedly made a
part of some cigars.

B: That was possibly to be used against the same person?
G: Yes.
B: And was there an actual box of cigars put together,

do you know?

G: I know there was a box of cigars and-~in other words,

I first was told there was a box of cigars, I saw a
completely unopened box of cigars sometime later I saw what
appeared to be the same box still unopened, but I was led to
believe that they had been improved.

Br: Is there a possibility the first box of cigars might

have had a substance that might not have killed
someone but might have affected behavior whereas the second
box of cigars they had a substance that could have killed
someone?

G: Well, using the word "possible", yes, But I have
no--I have no thoughts that makes me think that this
was the case.

B: Do you think in both cases it was to try and kill
someone?
@: I think the first case was of items before they had

been treated and the second was supposedly the same
items that had been treated. That was my understandi:

@ZT GUOd “A ATWYaD AHL WOUd RdOOOLOHA

B: Oh, I see. Do you know what eventually happened to 5
the cigars? iS

G: They were destroyed, completely.

B: Do you know what eventually happened to the pills?

G: No, I don't.

B: Do you know if the cigars were prepared before or

after the pills?

G: My recollection is that they were after, but really
at this state I can't be sure. I think it was after. .

1


-5-

B: Is there any other information you have that might

in any way be relevant to any allegations that the
CIA engaged in plans involving assassination of any foreign
leader.that you think might be relevant?

G: I never had heard inference of any other potential
target--

B: Other than the particular target for which the
cigars and the pills were prepared?

G: Yes. That's right.

B: Do you have any other knowledge about that particular
target that you think might be relevant? That noise

you hear is the end of the tape, and I'm going to have to put

another tape on, but you have about ten seconds left before

I do.

G: I don't think directly. You are bound to hear
things, but I have never been one that just takes

something I hear and put any weight on it,

B: All right. I'm going to just have to conclude on
one more tape if you'd hold on a minute please.

5 All right.

B: Dr. Gunn, we have the new tape on now.

G: Hold it.

B: Certainly,

G: Now, I do know, and as you and I mentioned this morning.

B:3 In our earlier telephone conversation--

G: Yes-~and the tape isn't on now is it?

B: You want the tape off now?

3 Yes.

B: Dr. Gunn, you went off the record for a minute. Now

we are back on the record and you told me you were
aware that--of a man that I said I had already talked to--the
Director of the Office of Security who had knowledge of this.

Is that correct? We didn't discuss anything off the record,
did we?

G: No, Sir,

“ad GIwaaS AHL WOWd AdODOLOHA

KawdgIT quoi


-6-

B: Is there any other thing that you can think of,
whether I've asked it or not that is any way relevant
to any inquiries of this Commission?

G: Not that I know of. I would be happy to have anyone
come here and I'll talk with them to the best of my
ability.
you
B: This morning I asked/whether or not it would be

possible for you to come to Washington and you in-
dicated because of the condition of your wife that you were
caring for her and you could not come here to Washington. Is
that correct?

G: This is correct, because I have been doing twenty-

four hour duty since a year ago May 14.
Be Well, I hope she at least --
G: We're making progress, but we're not able to move

out of this fifty-mile zone here.
B: All right. Do you know of plans that might have
involved any other target other than the particular
target that these pills were involved on?

G: I have no offensive plans I know of. My work called

for saving and preventing friends from having trouble,

but no offensive plans.

B: All right, Well, thank you very much for your inter-
view, Sir, and we'll mail you a copy of it and then
you can make any corrections that you feel are appropriate.

G: Well, I thank you very much.
B: Goodby.
B: Goodby, now.

(End of Tape)

°a aTwuagS FHL WOUA AdODOLOHA

AUVdadIT quod
