(178-10004-10280) [2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]
SFR Assassination System Date: BIZ TZOT

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: MATHENY
RECORD NUMBER: — 178-10004-10280

RECORD SERIES: SSC SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : REPORT RE JI’ ASSASSINATION (1)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D.
TO: MILLER, WILLIAM G.

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1976
PAGES : 14

SUBJECTS :
WARREN COMMISSION, INFORMATION WITHHELD FROM
FITZGERALD, DESMOND
OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO
LOPEZ, GILBERT
KENNEDY, ROBERT
AMLASH
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CHURCH COMMITTEE
CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CUBAN COORDINATING COMMITTEE
CUBAN EXILES
CUBELA, ROLANDO
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMIT
WARREN COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS : Consulted
CURRENT STATU! Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Includes two attachments: AMLASH Opetation, and hem Comments on Draft Report of SSC
Subcommittee.

vot 16
HW 50955 DocId:32105738 Page i


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Series A - Copy tc

WasninGron,D.C. 20505 ;
; —>J matters

10 June 1976 v7] “La”

o . : ‘ ae .
8 Mr. William G. Miller : CE
Ss Staff Director .
+ Select Committee to Study Governmental
8 Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities
oS Room G-308 .
bry Dirksen Senate Office Building
s Washington, D. G. 20515
Dear Bill:
tas Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft report of

. the Senate Select Committee's subcommittee on the question of
' support by the intelligence agencies for the Warren Commission
. inguiry. These comments have been prepared under a tight
ws deadline, which has limited the ability to research all the questions
no raised in the draft report.
The attachments to this letter-are in two sections. The first
is @ summary of considerations relating to the relationship between
CIA and AMLASH/1 priur io the assassination of President Kennedy
. . ° on 22 Novernber 1963. The point is that the record of what was said
en to AMLASH/1, and specific reporting of what he understood, makes
it cleay that there were no grounds for him to believe, andhe did
not believe, that he had CLA support for an assassination plot against
Castro in the period preceding President Kennedy's death, The
“second attachment is an item-by-item series of comments, ranging
from minor editorial notations and comments, to factual corrections
and 1 security points. . .

‘As there is a basic difference between the interpretation of
facts inthe draft report, and the facts a9 we know them, it would be
appreciated if there could be an Opportunity to address the question

- with the members of the Subcommittee. It is my opinion that it would
be a disservice to the public to issue the report as now written,

Sincerely,

Sew /
SN fom } S, D. Breckinridge
Geretd R. Ford Library - Deputy Inspector General

Attachrhents:
Aa stated

TOP. SECR REL Classified by Signes

HW 50955 DocId:32105738 Paye 2


HW 50955

BNE RIL ILE

Series A copy Lo:

ALLASH Operation

The objective of the AMLASH operation throughout its
existence was the formnaticn of a nucleus within Cuba to organize
an internal coup to replace the Castro regime. “AMLASH/1 held
@ position high in-the Cuban government. He was disillusioned
with the Castro regime and was considered as a possible political
action asset. The Agency had a series of mectinga with him
during the 1951-62 period, the last of which was in August 1962
pricr to his departure for Havana. He was never a fully. recruited
agent. -

ute In Septémber 1963 AMLASH/1 was met in Brazil, the first
time since the August 1962 meetings. During the September 1963
meeting with AMLASH/I, he said that there were two ways to

_ effect a coup; through an outside invasion (which he recognized
was out of the question at that time) or through an “inside job"
(i.e. internal coup via military overthrow). He indicated that
he was waiting for a plan of action from the United States
Government, By this he meant high-level assurances of suppoxt
for a successful coup. The same cable which reported the resulta
of the meeting also’ indicated that AMLASH/1 ‘will always be a
control problem," : a

AMLASH/1 then went to Paris, France, where he was met
again. Meetings with AMLASH/I in October 1963 consisted of
. explovation 2g to what he might do, and-requests by him for”
U.S. support. In response to his seeking high-level assurances
of U.S. support, Desmond FitzGerald met with him on
29 October 1963, The plan for that meeting is described in

owriting in the file as follows:

“pitzGerald will represent self as personal
representative of Robert F. Kennedy who .
traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting 7
{AMLASH/]) and giving him assurances of

full U.S. support if there is change of the.

1... present government in Cuba." (Emphasis. added), ON

Photocopy
from :
Gerald R. Ford Library

Tap SErRET . Classified by Signer

Docld:32105738 Page 3


A memorandum for the record of that meeting, dated
13 November 1963, contained the following summary?

"PitzGerald informed (AMLASH/I that the
United States is prepared to render all
necessary assistance to any anticcommunist
Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing
the present Cuban Jeadership and assumes
sufficient control to invite the United States
to render the assistance it is prepared to
‘give. It was emphasized that the above
Support will be forthcoming only after a
xeal coup has been effected and the proup
involved is in a position to request U.S.
a (probably under OAS auspices) recognition
: and support. It was made clear that the U.S.
was not prepared to comumit itself to support-¢
ing an isolated uprising, as such an uprising
can be extinguished in a matter of hours if
the present government is still in control in
Havana. As for the post-coup period, the
U.S. does not desire that the political clock be
turned back but will support the necessary economic
and political reforms which will benefit the mase of
the Cuban peopie." (Emphasis added), oe

In 1967 the Inspector General of CLA conducted an investi-

gation of the AMLASH operation, and interviewed Mr. FitzGerald
“and his exécutive officer (who had been kept thoroughly familiar
with developments}, FitzGerald recalled that AMLASH/L Spoke of
. the need for an assassination weapon, paxticularly a high powered
xifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon which could’

be used to kill Castro ftom a distance, FitzGerald rebiffed

‘this request and instructed the case officer who served as an
interpreter to tell AMLASH/L that the U.S. simply did not do

such things. FitzGerald's executive officer, though not pre-
sent, had the same recollection. Mr. FitzGerald assured ne
AMLASH/I of full U.S. support "if there is a change of the
present leadership." : .

Photocopy
ftom
Gerald R. Ford Library

TOP SECR

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Paye 4


The 13 November memorandum also stated that:

"Nothing of aa operational nature was discussed
at the FitzGerald meeting, Alter the meeting
(AMLASH/1) stated that he was satisfied with
the policy discussion but now desired to know
what technical support we could provide him. !t

On 14 November 1963 a Cuban exile in New York (the source
" of the original introduction to AMLASH/1) stated to a CLA case
officer that AMLASH/1, while: ",, + Satishied...as far as policy
was concerned, ...was not at all happy with the fact that he
still was not given the technical assistance. for the operational
plan as he saw it...He could not understand why he was denied
, certain small pieces of equipment which permitted a final
solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S.
‘Government gave much equipment and money to éxile groups for
their ineffective excusions.,,!! The report of that mecting
also stated: "...if he does not get advice and material, from a
U.S. Government technician, he will probably become fed-up
again and we will lose whatever Progress we have made to date, it

On 19 November 1963 a CIA memorandum records FitzGevald's
@pproval of a cache for AMLASH/1 inside Cuba, with high-powered
rifles and scopes. During the period following 19 November Loe
i . and prior toa meeting in Paris on 22 November, a ballpoint pen
"was rigged as a-hypodermic syringe with which AMLASH/1 could
.administer a poison. The case officer arrived in Paris on

22 November 1963 and met with AMLASH/I on that date. AMLASH/1
was shown the ballpoint pen device but did not Bccept it, He also -
was told of the arms cache he would be provided.

The record is quite clear that AMLASH/I had no grounds,
i ‘prior to 22 Noveriber 1963, to believe that he had any support
H . from the United States for operations involving the acsassin~
ation of Fidel Castro. In fact, he had no advance support fox
a coup, however “he [right attempt it, This is emphasized by
\ . his recorded complaints on the subject, clearly reflecting his -
} . understanding that such was the case. His complaint on 14 :
November 1963, as reported through an intermediary, may have

led to the decision on 19 November 1963 to provide him with

, a
Photocopy .

fr .
Geraid Bord Ubrary TOP S Ee mn cy

HW 50955 DocId:32105738 Page 5


token support that he could interpret as the support he had
been requesting unsuccessfully. That decision was taken

19 November 1963 inside CLA Headquarters by FitzGerald and
formalized by a memorandum written the same date,

. Prior to 22 November 1963 CLA had refused to give

AMLASH/1 any support prior to a successful coup in Cuba.-

That he recognized that this specifically included a refusal to

: . participate in the assassination of Castro is reflected in the
description of a July-1964 report by the FBI, quoted in the SSG
Subcommittee draft, in which AMLASH/1 stated that Robert F.

: Kennedy had refused support for the assassination of Castro, ar

| As the 29 October meeting with FitzGerald is the one at which

i he understood he was meeting with a representative of Robert F,

Kennedy, it confirms the description in the 1967 IG Report.

Whatever the relationship with AMLASH/1 after 22 November,
the evidence is unequivocal that AMLASH/1] had no grounds prior
. to that for believing that he had GLA support for his vaguely defined .
course of action. He knew nothing that, had it leaked, would bave
served to motivate a Guban retaliatory strike against President
Kennedy. coe . . oo, hoe . - °

po ‘Finally, it is significant that the transcripts of AMLASH/1's
. _ 1966 trial contain no reference to his activities prior to, 1964; ie.,

: _ before President Kennedy's assassination. The transcripts suggest
Poo that, to the Cubans’ knowledpe, AMLASH/I was not in téuch with CLA
foe, . before November 1964, Nor did the book which Castro provided to
: . Senator McGovern in 1975, which purported fo be an inventory of all
i . . known plots against Gastra's life, contain any allegation of AMLASH/}
fo + anti-Castro activity prior to late 1964, The book mentions travel by.

5 AMLASH/1 to Madrid "where he was recruited by CIA agents.'' This

. travel occurred in November 1964, The above two instances strongly
suggest that Castro was not aware that AMLASH/I had any contact
with CLA prior to November 1964; i.e., one year after President
Kennedy's death, . . oo oot

The reported AMLASH/1 notoriety in the Miami Cuban exile
community did not occur prior to President Kennedy's death. This
developed after the 1966 trial and to some degree after AMLASH/1 <
‘ met with Cuban exile leaders in Madrid in late 1964 and early 1965,

. This was after AMLASH/1I was informed in 1964 that the U.S, .

Government had severed its relationship with him.”
+

The most recent information available indicates that AMLASH/¥
is still in jail, where he is serving a thirty year sentence.

~4A-
Photocopy T Nn
‘rom OP 8Cpary
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 6


ny ur SEUNLI _ ao aguas = ban 6

Series A - Copy lof

Item. Comments on Dralt Report of SSC Subcommittee

Page 2. Line ll. The word "agents" may describe FBI
. _ employees, but it is not a term ordinarily applied
to CIA staff employees,

Page7. — and complete paragraph, 2d line, The phrase
"backed by CIA," in describing the Bay of Pigs -
“operation, is imprecise. CIA was the government
instrument for conducting the operation, but there
was considerable other participation in what was
.an operation "backed" by the U.S, goverment,

- Page 8, The statement that the FBI knew about these plots

by at least May 1962 needs some elaboration. |
These plots (assassination) did not involve AMLASH/1

_ at that time, and what the FBI knew may have been
“about aspects of contacts, the nature of which it did
not know. (Need this be reconciled with the state-
ment at page 12 giving the date of FBI's leaming
whatever it learned 3 in July 1964?)

te Bot : and ‘and 3d paragraphs. Itis noted that operational
wa “"". activity in June 1963~-the date given-~was that there was
: ino” activity with the criminal Syndicate (this having
been ended several months earlier}, and there had
been no contact with AMLASH/I1 since August 1962,
. Statements by Castro about “terrorists'! had to apply
to other activities. .

Paragraph at bottom of page (continuing over to
page 9). References by Castro (12 Septernber 1963)
to “covert activities" undoubtedly referred to not~
so-covert activity of MONGOOSE.

Page 9. Bottom of page, speaking of 29 October 1963 meeting
‘ between AMLASH/1 and Fitzgerald, the draft report |

(oper TOP SECRET

Gerald R. Ford Library Paw ollind bet Same

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 7


says"... within weeks of this meeting CIA escalated
the level of its covert operations, telling AMLASH
the United States supported his plan. "

This misrepresents what AMLASH/1 was told
at the aq October 1963 meeting, which was that
he would receive no support unless he was

-, successful in a coup of his own, There is no
planning relationship between the inconclusive
status of the understanding with AMLASH/1 and
what was going on under MONGOOSE.

Pagel0. "Oswald contacted a known KGB agent" with the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico. While it is known that Oswald
contacted the Vice Consul at the Soviet Embassy in

” Mexico City, it is believed that it was for the purpose
of obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact that
the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer complicates
the matter but there is no evidence that Oswald knew
‘this Soviet was KGB. Therefore, recommend this —
. sentence be modified accordingly.

Page 12, | "Hoover and other senior officials first learned of
: plots to assassinate Castro in July 1964," Did they?

-Pagel4. "Moreover, there is evidence that CIA's investigators

. ‘made requests for files which should have given

7 knowledge of the AMLASH operation, but for some
“reason they did not acquire that knowledge. "

A quick review of CI State files, in the- time .

_ available for this review, disclose no requests

that, of themselves, would produce information
- ‘on the AMLASH operation. ae

Page 15. The draft report raises the question of what was
furnished investigators, which raises the question of
what was requested, by whom? (See comment on item

on page 14).

~2+

Photocopy

cwnatttantons TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 6


Of course, the reference to especial relevance
of the AMLASH operation in this context is
questioned,

Page 21. Draft report states that President Kennedy did "admit
oo that the Bay of Pigs invasion was in fact an operation
. sponsored by the CIA," Our impression was that he
~ . accepted this responsibility as his, fora government
: program. How and in what forum was. the stated
admission? . .

Page 27. . . : woe .

(numbered 29) : a a

ne Speaking of renewal of contact with AMLASH/L the
draft says ". . . the exact purpose the CIA had for
renewing contact is not known, but there is no evidence
that CLA intended at this time to use AMLASH in an
assassination operation. tye

When AMLASH came out of Cuba in September
1963, it was the first chance since August 1962
, to see him. Recontact needed no mysterious
"exact purpose." It is correct to state that
there was"no evidence’ of intent to use him as an
assassination operation; rather, the circum- |.
" stances that’ followed suggest just the opposite,

|» Footnote: The case officer did not say, as stated
“in the draft, that the basis for meeting with AMLASH Joe
. ‘was the belief of AMLASH that the first step of any .
coup was assassination. “While AMLASH's views were
known, as shown by the evidence his views were
rejected at least during the critical period.

Page 29, “The opinion expressed in the draft report, in relation
a . to the Harker interview, about "AMLASH not being

a terrorist, "is correct. Should it be reconciled

with statements on Page 8?

from
Gerald R. Ford Library

momw TOP SECRET.

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 9


Page 33.

Page 41.

Page 34,
; Stalt,

The report also says, here, "none of this other
activity would seem to warrant Castra's associating
that activity with U.S. leaders to the extent that he
wotld threaten the safety of American leaders aiding
the plans. ''' We note without exception. :

Footnote * *, The Cuban Coordinating Cornmittee was

. a group for + coordinating implementation of established

programs. By memorandum of 22 May 1963,. McGeorge

“Bundy, Special Assistant to President Kennedy for

National Security Affairs, designated the State Depart~
ment Coordinator of Cuban Affairs .as Chairman of the

‘Interdepartmental Committeé on Cuba with the specific

responsibility for the coordination of day-to-day actions
regarding Cuba. Membership of the Committee con-
sisted of representatives from State, USIA, DoD, ClA,

~ Justice, Treasury and ad hoe xepresentatives as.

mecessary. |

Footnote *. "This seems to indicate that the FBI

artied/of CIA's operations on 10 October 1963
new date?) and that this led to termination of the

‘AMLASH operation, Of course, that happened much
‘later, an : rn

speci! Altair Alfairs ‘Staff" should: read 2 "Special Acti

SASICL should read SAS/CL.

- Page 47. “Testimony of Karamessines is quoted, in which he is
‘lo .. asked a hypothetical question about use of AMLASH,
and that he answered hypothetically, but the pr. esente
seems to treat it as fact. .
Page 53, Reference to CIA‘!
ity should be > deleted, Simply delete the
ical: "This smali point is a sources~
and-methods question.
\
- y
when
TAP
Photcooy TGi
7 from
Gerald R. Ford Library +

NW 50955 Docid:32105738 Page 10


~ The draft report states that an overseas, Station
raised a question of AMLASH security. This is
taken out of context. Consideration had been given
to the possibility of using AMLASH/I in the recruit-
ment of a prospective agent in another European
country. This prospective agent frequently traveled
to Soviet Bloc countries and recently had returned,
The cable noted that the prospective agent appeared
less recruitable since his return and the Station. felt

_ that the use of AMLASH to recruit the agent might

pose a serious threat to AMLASH's personal security.
it did not, in any manner, reflect o on. the secur: ity of the
AMLASH operation,

 Pagesss- BT.

‘The 8 December: 1963 cable £ from IMWAVE 4 was in,
reply to two cables sent from Headquarters on
7 December 1963 which clarified the reason for the |
. delay in laying down the cache. AMLASH had beem --:
‘assured that he would be given time to re-establish’ 7
his normal pattern and assess the atmoebhere and
feelings among his contacts. He was also told that
+. there would be no activity until January 1964, Further,
the Standing Group was to meet on 10 December 1963
, todiscuss US policy toward Cuba and Latin America.
If the Standing Group decided to. recommend a change |
in then current policy toward Cuba the conduct of :
operations that might be counter to any recommended.
change in US policy objectives should not be under way.

‘Page 65, Did the FBI learn the "details" of the AMLASH operation -
te ‘in July 1964? They learned of AMLASH's unhappiness -
_with his failure to get what he asked, but what else did
they learn beyond the fact of the relationship? — :

Pages 76-78.

This portion of the report makes reference,to use of
the polygraph on 'D" (also revealed in true name at |

“Be
+ Photocopy _

from :
Gerald R. Ford Library van OFrRT eT

BW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page a1


page 78) in checking his story. This is considexed
a sensitive operational method, and deletion of use
of the polygraph in the interrogation is requested.

it seems interesting that this fabrication, which
proved to be an untrue report, receives so much
attention in the report. It really becamie a non-
story, although time was required to’ check it out.

Page 79. The FBI was not denied access to "D", As the basis
. for the statement is not known, it is not known in what.
context the understanding developed. The Mexicans
did make "D" available for interrogation, at which the
. FBI was present.

- Pagel04, The draft report states that CI Staff was not "affiliated
: with CIA's Cuban affairs staff," although later in the

’ piece it refers to SAS' Cl people coordinating with

I Staffs ¢ These ‘appear ¢ cont dictory, statements,” :

Re the case oof g aman crossing the Mexican der
| on 23 November then flying to Cuba, This case was”
| dnvestigated and pertained to Gilbert Lopez, a U.S.
citizen who had secured a fifteen day Mexican tourist
‘card at Tampa, Florida, on'20 November 1963. He
entered Mexico on this document at Neuvo- Laredo on
23 November 1963. He checked into the Roosevelt
_. Hotel on 25 November 1963, On 27 November he
‘checked out of the hotel and departed for Havana
‘aboard a regularly scheduled Cubana Flight #465.
cos He had a courtesy visa to visit Cuba. This was a
= scheduled international flight and he happened to
' . be, according to the manifest, the only passenger.

Photocopy

cmatt'Seam TOP SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 12


Page 120, It is requested that CIA support for DRE, JURE

. and the 30th November Movement groups he altered
to a generic description of anti-Castro groups.
Persons identified with them in some circles could
suffer from official confirmation of the connection,
This is still considered as classified, It is noted
that CIA did not have an operational interest in
‘SNF or Alpha 66. :

Page 122, The Agency effort to obtain FPCC stationery
. _ through a penetration for use in a deception

". operation is still classified since it involves

“ sources and methods. 7

Page 129. That the SAS Executive Officer views the AMLASH.
- operation as having been an assassination plot is
not very helpful, unless the time sequence and .
“evolution of the relationship with AMLASH/Jis © <0...

“made a part of that view. His account in 1967 .
‘supported FitzGerald's story of what happened
in the 29 October 1963 mesting, .-.

That SAS/CI speaks broadly may not be all that ;

,: helpful either, if the extent of his knowledge, we
‘and when he knew what he says he knew, is . a

‘fixed in time. ‘That he wrote a memorandum in

"1965 on the security of the operation, does itot
“qualify him'to address where things stood in

"1963. In fact, he is quoted at page 139 as saying
. that he could not recall the # time ) frame. .

Page 133, The draft report states thats in October 1963 the
. FBI knew of the "assassination aspect of the
AMLASH" operation, As is noted‘earlier, -
there was no such characterization that applied
to it then, so how it could have known is subject
to question,

Photocopy
from .
Gerald R. Ford Library ©

RW 50955 DocId:32105738 Paye 13


a _ TOP SES

Page 134. Comments have been made earlier on the significance
of the FBI's July 1964 report.

Page 135. It is difficult to see how a "desk officer" who was unaware
of the AMLASH operation at the time, and did not learn
of it until he was told while testifying (as characterized
to him by the questione:rs), could have a very relevant
understanding of the operation, Yet he is quoted as an
authoritative source. S

Page 137. The opinion of the SAS Executive Officer as to the
irony of the 22 November 1963 meeting does not alter
the relevance of the facts as to what the substantive
sequence of the operational relationship had been,

Page 138. While the point is noted only in passing, that AMLASH/1

. may have been a provocateur, it is noted that it would
.. have been strange logic for Castro to have sent him out -
to stimulate an assassination plot against himself and then .
used the’result of his own provocation as the motive for
‘dispatching an assassin. And then jail his.own provocateur

for what is now some ten years, No evidence supports this thes!

Page 139," SAS/CI states he cannot recall the time frame, while the

poly ‘sequence of events in development of the operational —
“Y relationship is a’ key £ factor in evaluating the present

- issue, es os

Page] 141-145,

: “Phe citation of 1964 events that do not ‘specifically relate

- back to the critical 1963 period have dubious relevance to
consideration of the problem, or fixing of the sequence of
events. The same seems to apply to 1965 events.

It is observed that "'A'l did make statements, but that the
polygraph was inconclusive, In any event, the use of the
polygraph should be deleted, because of its use in checking
. os the credibility of opexational contacts. Request that
‘ . _ reference be made to questioning or intey rogation, without ,
: this specific identification.

” Photocopy “8

Gerald R Fors sey . 7 oP SECR ET

HW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 14


. Page 161. The 1967 IG report did not consider the issue of when.
the operational relationship with AMLASH/1 developed
to the point where AMLASH/1 could feel he had CIA
support for his plans. It simply dealt with events as
they unfolded. The report was used as a primary
source for the brief capsulized summary of the AMLASH
operation that preceded this detailed series of comments.

General. It is requested that reference to cables follow the general
practice employed in the SSC report on alleged assassination
plots. The date the cable was sent, the quoted portion, and
the country of origin should suffice. Specific reference to
a CIA "Station" should be deleted; specific designation of a
CIA station in a given city gan create undesirable difficulties,
References to IN and CUT numbers, or DIR numbers, and ta

. . the date and time group of a cable, provide information that
is subject to hostile communications analysis and should

_be removed, This technique for treating cables permits

the basic story to be told without providing unnecessary and
harmful, froma security point of view, inforrmtion.
Instances in the draft presenting the question were noted
at pages 41, 46, 49, and 57. In addition, although JIMWAVE
has already been identified officially in SSC published xveportd,
the basic treatment of communications cited in relation to
that Station should otherwise receive similar technical
treatment; see pages 19, 19a, 56, 106 and 138.

51 cit

the CIA Chief of Station reading a cable to
Sof. Mexico:, CIA relations with the
-- here, specifically, the’
| j-~ is extremely sensitive, both operationally and
politically. The revelation of this relationship could affect
adversely ongoing and future operations in Mexico, as well.
as being a particularly irritating embarragsment to the
Mexican Government. : .

Special. Pa,

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library °

BW 50955 Docld:32105738 Page 15
