178-10002-10480)

[ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: _ 178-10002-10480
RECORD SERIES: — ASSASSINATION FILE
AGENCY FILENUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (7)
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — PFIAB
FROM: KIRKPATRICK, LYMAN
TO:
TITLE: FROM MOR OF PFIAB MEETING WITH DCI MC CONE, 23 APRIL 1963
DATE: 04/23/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
CUBA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CIA
PBIAB
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: =MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Excerpt from memorandum, plus route slip.

v9.

HW 50955 DocId:32204635

88
Page 1


178-10002-10480

| DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION

Z | fied When filled in form is detached from controlled document. :

CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR“TOP SFCRFT DOCUMENT: ca ise.
~ el REGISTRY

CIA CONTROL NO.

Tounce
pecs NO. DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED
copy NO. Exiting 3 [osero ey

HUNDER OF PAGES.

HUNGER OF ATTACHMENTS

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence A
or clussifice Top Secret within the CIA and will reniain attached to the document tntil such time as it is downgraded, destroy
transmitted outside of CIA, Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personne! and those individuals whose ©
Cuties relete to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this
and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sig:

indicate the date of handiing in the right-hand columns. uy
REFERRED TO} RECEIVED RELEASED | ° SEEN BY °
OFFICE SIGNATURE , pave | time | oare | Time SIGNATURE OFFICE/OIV.
D 7st
eh ote es
/
rs
e
=
i S
8

NOTICh OF DETACHMENT: When this jorm is detached from Top Seeret material ts shall be completed tn the appropriate space
and irensmiitted (2 Central Top Secret Controt for record.

iy initia fee DESTROYED [DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE ©)
Fe ty (Signature) v0 7

BY (Signature)

OFFICE DATE

orice

HW 50955 DocId:32204635 Page 2


rere

ce over Cuba and that this was disturbing when the
four principal targets were analyzed, There were 59 occasions when
weather precluded any readout of what was going on in these four Soviet
military.camps. Some of the camps were not seen for five or six days in
a row and in one instance for as long as 12 successive days. Mr. McCone
then read from the memorandum on reconnaissance over Cuba d:
1963 and said he would Provide the Board with a copy.

e
@
a
N
w
>
~~
4
EB
Hd

to Veradero had passed a convoy of 25 very large trucks, the type generally
carried on railroad flatcars, Mr. McCone stated that an examination of the
photography for that day and the following day provided absolutely no trace

of the convoy. Dr. Land stated that the DCI's previous statement may have
provided the answer as to where this convoy might be. The DCI saia he
planned to recommend low-level flights in order to provide more information,

10, At this point Mr, FitzGerald was asked to give his presentation on
Operations in Cuba. He commenced by displaying the chart which indicated
the number of resident agents, illegal teams, legal teams, shipboard agents
and penetrations of Cuban installations, He noted that the number of illegal
teams had risen to three as a result of a successful operation on Sunday,
and one of these tearms had as many as 100 subagents with extensive coverage
.in the province of Pinar del Rio. Dr. Langer asked what the subagents were
looking for, and Mr, FitzGerald replied that their coverage was mostly
military, Mr. Murphy asked if these agents were all strictly collecting
intelligence, and Mr. FitzGerald replied that this was their primary purpose
at the moment, but the illegals could create a resistance net if this wag
desired. He pointed out that the policy at the present time precluded attempt~
ing to develop a jJarge scale dangerous activity.

AMVdGIT Gdod “a aTwugo aHL WOud AdOdOLO.

Mr, FitzGerald pointed out that the penetration of Cuban installations
were mainly diplomatic installations and that some 14 Cuban diplomats were
our agents. Mr, Clifford asked how the information was gotten Out of Cuba,
and Mr. FitzGerald replied that it was mostly by secret writing transmitted
. to Mexico City by mail and then forwarded to Washington, He said there
were four radios in Cuba and that we now had a greatly improved medium
speed transmitter that was quite small, the size of about two cigarette cartons, ~
and it could get a message off in just 60 seconds, He said that there Wasa,
smaller and better transmitter currently in the pr

HW 50955 DocId:32204635 Page 3


Dr, Land asked if the loss of this transmitter would compromise others,
Mr. FitzGerald replied that it would not compromise any other agents
except the one apprehended, and the DCI noted that it would simply com-

promise the instrument.

Mr. Murphy asked concerning the quality of substantive reporting,
and Mr. FitzGerald noted that the 1,040 reports looked impressive, but it
was quite true that this was not a'true indicati i re of the
reporting was very good, and there were two nthe
payroll who provided some first-rate reports and were closest to the bone
in what Castro was thinking. Mr. Murphy asked if we had Castro's
immediate entourage penetrated and Mr. FitzGerald said his»sister worked
foxius- but'that ‘she! didn't always have inside information. He pointed out
that the 665 reports from resident agents were primarily on military targets
and the intelligence community felt they were really worthwhile as a supple-
ment to overhead reconnaissance. General Doolittle asked if an illegal
team was two men and Mr. FitzGerald replied "yes". Mr. Murphy asked
whether these agents provided information on Soviet troop strength and
equipment, and Mr, FitzGerald ‘replied in the affirmative. Mr. Clifford

‘noted that with just two illegal agent teams in Cuba at this time we were
pack to where we started from in 1962. Mr, FitzGerald commented that the
casualty rates were very high and referred to the charts "Legal Resident
Agents in Cuba" and "Illegal Agent Development'', i

dOD0L0Ha

“a GTWuYaS AHL woud A.

(At this point Mr. McCone left the meeting and Mr. Cottrell came
in.) 7

Mr. Gray asked if the modest number of agents was a result of
policy or operations. Mr. FitzGerald replied that this was primarily a
result of operations and noted that it. was not the result of lack of effort, but
because of the high attrition rate and the dangers involved, He went over 3
the lists of what had happened to the agents that were put in. He noted that
it was presently planned to carry out approximately five operations a month.
Mr, Murphy asked if there wa's evidence of organized resistance in Cuba,
Mr, FitzGerald replied "yes", but they were now small bands scattered
He noted that Castro had broken up the large country-
He then produced the chart entitled

‘

vy
2°
6
>
A
w

throughout the island.
wide resistance networks last summer.
'Tilegal Infiltration -- Exfiltration Operations" and commented on this.

Mr. Murphy asked if the groups on the island committed sabotage, and

Mr. FitzGerald said the policy presently precluded major sabotage operation:
and limited it to "subtle sabotage". Mr. Murphy asked what constituted
"subtle sabotage", and Mr. FitzGerald described it as tying a rock to a wiré

and throwing it across high tension lines.

HW 50955 DocId:32204635 Page 4


7 mene a c spysy Teer
i i

en turned to Mr. Cottrell and asked him to describe
ttrell said the President had become con-

11. The Board th
ng with so many

the work of his group. Mr. Co
cerned there were SO many governmen'
pans Cuban groups, and he had set up the group under Mr. Cottrell to coordinate
/ all of this activity. He said that his immediate group consisted of a repre-
sentative of Defense and CIA, and there were additional committees or
groups reporting to therm. He outlined the general policy guidance under
which they were operating and under questioning from Mr. Murphy stoutly
denied that the policy was pasically defensive in nature, and it was
It was

directed toward getting rid of communism and Castro in Cuba.
> farther explained that CIA' dinated through this group.

t agencies deali

s activities were coor

12. Dr. Killian then asked Bruce Clarke to give a brief report on the
situation in Cuba, and with the aid of photographs Clarke analyzed the

op strength on the island and explained how these figures

g recessed to permit the presenta

present Soviet tro
At 12:00 this session wa
Ke HS

WOU AdODOLOHG

were arrived at.
tion by DIA.

GERALD
Loyyey

Lyman B. Kirkpatrick
_ Executive Director

Ey
a
:
7
s
i}
6
o
al)
o
5
id

HW 50955 DocId:32204635 Page 5
