(178-10003-10453]

RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
STR ASSISMETON SYST

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES -

_AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FRO!

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATU!

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA +

COMMENTS =

Identification Form

Tae

SIZHZOT

Agency Information
WILDEROTTE
178-10003-10453
CIA
CIA G)

Document Information

SSCIA
CHURCH, FRANK
COLBY, WILLIAM E.

06/26/1975
25

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CHURCH COMMITTEE
CIA

DOCUMENT REQUEST, CHURCH COM.

LETTER
Secret

1A; 1B; 1C
Redact
07/30/1993

Includes three attachments.

v9

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page i


Be SECRET

PHANIC CHURES, EDAND, CHAIR
JOHN G, TOWER, TEXAS, VICE O ‘
PHILA aD HART, ICH. Howand H. WAKER, Jn. TEN,

a WaLTea F, MONOALE, MINN. DAMHY GOLOWATER, ARIE,
. Walvem ©. HUDOLESTON, RY. CHARLES Mle G. MATHIAS

\ meormerean we ws Sec Wnrifed DBtates Senate

; WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAPF OINECTOR
b AcOEBicK A. 0. SCHWARZ, Im, CHIEF COUNSEL,
CURTIS A. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
Ceursuant To 5. Res. 21, 7H concness)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

178-10003-10453 June 26, 1975

Mr. William E. Colby

Director of Central Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Colby:

On May 27 and June 2, the Senate Select Committee informed
the Central Intelligence Agency of the Committee's plans
for examining the field of foreign intelligence and the
subject of covert action. In the area of the domestic
activities of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Select
Committee intends to address a wide range of issues,
including the domestic aspects of CIA's foreign operations.
The Committee intends to approach the issues of the CIA's
domestic activities with a broad perspective, realizing,
as I am sure you agree, that the threats to United States
security and the need to protect sources and methods of
intelligence, as well as CIA installations and personnel,
eross our national borders.

Basically, the subjectsof investigation fail into the
following five headings:

1. Counterintelligence activities at nome and those
counterintelligence activities abroad which involve
American Gitizens, including activities undertaken
pursuant to the Director's authority to protect intel-
ligence sources and methods.

i
3
3
z
g
Es
4
Sa
z
S
G
B
a

2. Foreign intelligence activities at home and those foreign
intelligence activities abroad which involved American
citizens.

3. The domestic operations of the CIA undertaken in sup-
port of activities abroad.

RW 50955 Docld:32112656 Paye 2


_ € C

Mr. William E. Colby 5
Page Two dune 26, 1975

4, Relationships between other organizations, public and
private, and the CIA.

5. The use of CIA personnel, funds, or facilities for pur-=-
poses unrelated to its intelligence missions.

Within these broad subjects of investigation, the Committee
will examine "questionable activities" by the CIA. These
activities are those where there exist, in the words of the
agreed upon Outline for Inquiry Procedures, "specific alie-
gations of Agency or Executive Branch abuses or other con-
troversial specific matters where there is reason to believe
improprieties may have occurred". The following categories
are believed by the Committee to be among those in which
questionable activities have taken place: mail openings;
electronic surveillance; equipment testing within the United
States; surreptitious entries; penetration of dissident
groups; use of cover and false documentation; security inves-
tigations, including those initiated as a result of or in
connection with news leaks; use of polygraphs; political
misuse of the CIA; assistance provided CIA by other agencies
or private companies and CIA's assistance to them; CIA
management of its investments; CIA use of proprietaries,
notional organizations and devised facilities; CIA experi-
ments with drugs on unwitting U. S. citizens; CIA detention
of individuals within the United States.

In regard to each questionable activity chosen for study,

the Select Committee will examine the nature of the activity
and will attempt to evaluate the results. The Committee
will also look at the CIA's authority to undertake the
activity, the relationship between the activity and the CIA's
missions, the internal mechanisms for initiation and review,
and the external-mechanisms for control of such activities.

g
3
<
>
é
3
=
a
®
gs
3
S
ba
ne]
g.
a
im
s
g
3
<

Though the initial focus will be on the specific question-
able activity, the Select Committee's inquiry is designed
to reach fundamental issues which bear directly on the ade-
quacy of the administrative organization and procedures of
the CIA, and the legislation presently controlling the
Agency. Among the major issues which the Committee will
address are: . :

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 3


€ . €

Mr. William E. Colby
Page Three June 26, 1975

i. What is the legal authority for CIA intelligence and
counterintelligence activities within the United
States? What is the legal authority for CIA actions
directed at U. S. citizens abroad? Should the authority
be clarified or revised?

2. What limitations are placed on CIA intelligence and
counterintelligence activities within the United States
by the Constitution and laws of the United States?

What limitations are placed on CIA intelligence and
counterintelligence activities directed at U. S$. citi-
zens abroad by the Constitutions and laws of the United
States? Should the limitations be clarified or revised?

3. What have been the purposes and aims of CIA intelligence
and counterintelligence activities within the United
States or directed at U. 8. citizens abroad? How were
these objectives set? Were they appropriate? Should
they be modified?

4, What is the origin and purpose of the charge to the
Director, Central Intelligence, to protect intelligence
sources and methods? What actions have been taken pur~
suant to it? Were those actions appropriate? Should
the charge be clarified or revised? Should the DCI be
provided with additional authority in order to carry
out the charge?

5. What is the origin and purpose of the prohibition on
CIA in respect to police and lew enforcement powers,
and internal security functions? Has this prohibition
interferred with the DCI's charge to protect intelli-
gence sources and methods? To what extent has this
prohibition interferred with other duties and missions

of the CIA? Should the prohibition be clarified or
revised?

E
&
>
§
=
7
g.
a.
ba
nm
2
a
o
i-<
8
<2

6. What have been or are now the methods and techniques
of intelligence gathering and counterintelligence opera-
tions used by the CIA in the United States or directed
at U. 8. citizens abroad? What is the legal authority

NW 50955 DociId:32112856 Page 4


er

co co c

Mr. William BE. Colby
, Page Four June 26, 1975

for the use of each such technique? How was the use

of each such technique authorized, reviewed, and con-
trolled, internally and externally? What was the
effectiveness of each such technique in achieving the
missions of the CIA? Were any of these techniques .used
for any purpose other than one related to the CIA's law-
ful missions? Under what conditions and through what

procedures should these methods and techniques be used
in the future? .

7. What kinds of files have been maintained on U. S.
citizens and organizations? What information was re-
tained and for what reasons? Under what conditions

and through what procedures should such material be
collected or retained?

What was the nature of the threats which triggered CIA
intelligence and counterintelligence activities within
the United States or directed at U. S$. citizens abroad?

What was the basis for the CIA's estimates of the
threats?

3. How are the intelligence and counterintelligence
activities of the CIA within the U. 8. or directed at
U. S. citizens abroad organized and coordinated with
other agencies of government? What have been the prac-
tices and procedures for liaison, exchange of informa—
tion, joint operation and mutual support between the
CIA and qather governmental bodies? To what extent did
CIA coordination and cooperation with other government
agencies result in questionable activities by the CIA;
to what extent did the failure to cooperate or coordinate
activities result in questionable activities by the CTA?
How did the cooperation or coordination of activities
with other governmental agencies relate to the prohibi-

¥ tion on the CIA's exercise of police and law enforecemént
powers or internal security functions? Should the pro-

cedures and practices involving other governmental
agencies be clarified or revised?

E
ey
3
c=
rd
ia
g
2
a
fad
z
a
CQ
ed
8
a

NW 50955 Docild:32112856 Page 5


#

€ €

Mr. William &. Colby

Page Five June 26, 1975

10. Have governmental officials outside the CIA ‘sought

_and obtained the CIA's assistance for-political pur-
boses or personal advantage? To what extent have
private organizations or individu

activities? What measures have

been or should be taken
to ensure that the CIA is not mi

sused in such ways?

ll. What have been the procedures and mechanisms within
the CIA for initiating, reviewing, reporting, and
controlling ‘CIA intelligence or counterintelligence
activities within the U. 3. or directed at U. S.°
citizens abroad? How might these procedures be
improved? What are the procedures and mechanisms
external to the CIA for oversight of the CIA's intel-
ligence and counterintelligence activities within the
U. S. or directed at U. 8S. citizens abroad? How might
these mechanisms and procedures be improved?

The annexed notifications set forth re
documents and the name
desires to interview.

position is not known t

quests for additional
Ss of persons the Committee presently
In some cases the occupant of a

o the Committee and the Committee
requests that the CIA provide the name of the individual.

In any case, where the individual is no longer with the
Agency, the Committee requests that the CIA provide the
individual's last known address, Finally, the notifications
indicate the-names of the staff members who, in addition to
the Committee's senior staff, will be working in these areas,

The Committee, in the course of the nex
undertake other

proceeds and wil

t few months, will
subjects for investigation as its work

i notify you as appropriate,

Assi] Pld “A plesay oy) wosy Adosovwyd

We look forward to your cooperation in these matters.

Sincerely yours,

Frank Church
Chairman

John Tower
Vice Chairman

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 6


“eel
€ € Shi ey

ATTACHMENT I.

DOCUMENTS REQUESTED FOR STAFF REVIEW

This attachment lists files and other documentary

fe a ae

materials which the Select Committee hereby requests be
made available for staff review.

in the first instance, all of the specified material

will be reviewed in unsanitized form oy staff at CIA head-

quarters. The Committee will continue to select particular

documents to be transmitted to the Committee's offices in

Washington te be used in preparing for hearings and the i

Committee's report.

In order to expedite production of the requested

materials we have indicated, where known to the Committee,

offices within the CIA which would be appropriate Starting

points to search for the materials. This effort to

expedite matters does not limit the CIA's responsibility

to search for such materials throughout the Agency, using

@s appropriate, lists and indices of CIA projects and pro-

Asesqr] plod “a plRsep ay) wo Adoosoioud

grams.

This request calls for "all files" of various programs

or projects, and "all files" regarding particular incidents

or entities. Requests for "all files" are intended by the

Committee to include ‘all subject, correspondence chronological

NW 50955 Docild:32112856 Page 7


and all other files or unfiled decumentary materials in
the office, or storage repositories, of the organizational
unit which managed the program or project in question.

The requests also include all such files in the
offices or storage repositories of the responsible Division
Director, Office Director, and Directorate Deputy Director,
in the DCI office, and in any other part of the Agency which
had significant involvement or connection with the program.

Where the Committee requests "documents" or "docu-
mentary materials", those terms are defined as all corres-
pondence, memoranda, notes, working papers, buck slips and
routing slips, studies, reports, charts, films, tapes, and
all other writings, printings, typings, or drafts, and
copies or reproductions.

When files for a specific project or program are re~
quested under the best known designation of that project
or program, the request includes files of any earlier or
later versions of that project. Thus, the request for
Project MHCHAOS would also comprehend files for the ante-
cedent MHALPHA and MHPASHA projects and for the subsequent
MEVAPOR. ;

When any files, portions thereof, or particular docu-

mentary materials are no longer available, the Committee

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 8

Areugry’ plo “a plez2D aut wosy Adoooyoud


-~3-

requests that they be specified with an accompanying
explanation of when and under what circumstances they were
destroyed. If no information regarding their destruction
is available, please specify che earliest time, and under ¢
what circumstances, CIA first became aware the items were
missing.

We expect that staff representatives of the Committee
and of CIA will expedite compliance with these requests,
and indicate priorities for production through preliminary
review of this notification and discussion of the files
involved. It would also ve helpful if CIA identifies those
persons within each Directorate and Division or Office who
are actually in charge of reviewing and assembling material,
so that Committee staff can also discuss these requests with’
them and resolve rapidly any questions or difficulties
which might arise.

We also expect that a good deal of this material will
be readily available in view of the reviews already done
by CIA in this area over the past two years. As soon as
some portions of any requests are available for review, the
Committee staff should be notified in order that they may

begin their inspection while the remainder.is being assembled.

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 9

z
>
S
2
=
3
3
=
*
g
2
a
Fad
=
s
g
a
o
a=
3
xd


-~ ye

Finally, it. should be noted that this document re-

quest does not supersede any earlier requests for material

in this area which are still outstanding. If CIA staff
encounters overlap in responding to this and earlier re-

_quests, the Committee staff should be promptly notified.

i
i
i

Asesqry pio “a PIRIH ay) Woy Adoso}OYg

NW 50955 DoclId:32112856 Page 10


FILES

The following files are requested. In order to expedite

their location, the Committee has indicated offices which

appear to be the best starting point for a search. This does
not limit, nor supersede the general guideline that all files

throughout the CIA relating to a project be procured, If pro-
jects herein identified are not CIA projects, but are identi-

fiable as projects of other agencies with which CIA had some

connection, the request is for all CIA files regarding such
projects,

In the first instance, all of the specified material will

be reviewed in unsanitized form by staff at CIA headquarters,
The Committee will continue to select particular documents to

be transmitted to the Committee's offices in Washington to be

used in preparing for hearings and the Committee's report,

I. All files regarding the following projects,

incicents or
entities:

1. OXBRAKE

2. SRPOINTER, HTLINGUAL, SRWESTPOINTER, and MKSOURDOUGH
(SR and FE, CI and 08)

3, MBEODESTAR (including all files for MPTRE
: .MPCHAUVINISM as well as any other files regarding the
institution or operation of notional organizations
by CIA or other organization for similar or related

purposes [FE]}

EKA and

4.  DESTRY, (WE)

>» AMBADUCT and: RIVAL MLAMI (WH)
6. MHCHAOS (CI, FE, FRD, 0S)
7. HYDRA (CI or 08)

NW 50955 Docid:32112856 Page 11

, Asesqry ploy “Y PYRIeH By) wWosy dow



€

8. S4OOZEN (CI, OF) ‘
9. LPMEDLEY

10. All files relating to CIA participation in the Intelligence

Evaluation Committee (CI}

ll. All files reflecting or relating to breaking and entry,
surreptitious entry or technical surveillance done by or
for the Foreign Resource Division (DODS) :

12, Foreign Resources Division, “NewYork Bdse, files on pro-
jects or other activity relating to United Nations and
United Nations personnel (1964-1965, 1968, 1972)

[Select Committee Staff are available to examine é
York base files presently retained in~Néw, York+C: y at
that. facility]

13. FRD NewYork Base chronological files (1969,1971 and 1972)

14, FRD Washington. Base chronological files (1969, 1971 and 1972)

1S, All files, or other documents, including those prepared

for the DCI or his assistants, regarding the New York Times

article by Seymour Hersh of December 29, 19747

16. All files regarding technical coverage by United States
Government agencies -of/

_ in America (FI/Staff D, OC, WH, CI, TSD)
17. All files on International telephone [
(FI/D, OC, TSB)

18. All Technical Services Division files regarding support

of CONUS (domestic) intelligence operations by the
Department of Defense

19. All files regarding the use of "false documentation"
prepared or provided by CIA which involved its use for
‘purposes other than identification, e.g., to discredit,
harrass or otherwise affect adversely the person identi-
fied in the false documentation. This request covers
such use of "false documentation" whether used by CIA
or other agencies and whether such use was contemplated
or authorized by CIA. The request does not include use
of such documentation in foreign operations against non-
U. S. citizens. (Cover Staff, TSD)

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 12

2
=
z
3
>.
&
7]
&
3
a
fa
rs
3
g
a
is
S
3
Et
wy



€ . -3- C

20. All files regarding the testing of mind or behavior
influencing drugs on unsuspecting subjects, and any
records pertaining to the destruction of materials
on the subject.

21. All indices regarding the testing of the effects of
radiation, electric shock, harassment substances (1950-
°1975),'as well as the testing of drugs on volunteers
(1950-1975)

22. All TSD files regarding the training of personnel from
other government agencies in techniques of sabotage,
surreptitious entry, electronic surveillance,

23. The following Office of Security projects or programs:

“SALVAGE SUNDANCE |
MERRIMAC PINEAPPLE |
RESISTANCE BUT. -

SPXDER REDFACE™E (and any subsequent REBEFACE projects) |
SIESTA CELOTEX I and CELOTEX If
“HYDOOR MUDHEN |
DMUREC PARAGON |

MOCKINGBIRD BW

“FOLD

24, <All files relating to the proposal, and subsequent
efforts to modify or implement the program described
as "PROJECT 1" in the Rockefeller Commission Report (p.137)

25. All files of the Security Research Staff Chief and ali.
Chronological Files of the Security Research Staff (1967-1973

26. Chronological files of Target analysis group, Special
Activities Division. (1967-1973)

27. All files of the Technical Surveillance Unit, Washington
Field Office Office of Security (1968-1973)

28. Chronological files Special Electronic Operations Branch
and all files of the Chief of the Special Electronic
Operations Branch, Special Programs Division, Office of
Communications (1967-1973)

Aseagry psoy “y pleases ayy wsoay Adooooyg

29, ‘Chronological files, Chief of the Special Programs Divi-
sion, Office of Communications (1967-1973)

31, WUGRAVEL (OC) .
32. ORKED (OC) ©

HW 50955 DocId:321128656 Page 13


34. Any additional files on any incidents
surveillance, technical penetration,
entry, breaking and entering, by the
in cooperation with another organization

public or private.

of technical
surreptitious
CIA directly or

Directorate for Intelligence

Service file and Office of Legislative

35, Domestic Contact
Counsel file on Spring 1972 meeting of Lee Freeman, Esq.
and Vernon Sando, head of Chicago Office, pcs and any
additional files on inquiry regarding such meeting by
Senator Edward Kennedy .
46, Domestic Contact Service fil
telephone call slips ‘omsté
37. DCS assessment of U.S. citizens suitability for assist-
ance to.or use by CIA
office of General Counsel
38, -MEXSEUAL and WHBRaK ah (O6C, OF) 1960-1973. The request

ntation of particular financial

does not include docume
dies or technical data on

transactions, actuarial stu
the investment program.

ectorate for Science and Technology

Dir

39. ~-HONGSHAFT, “TAMPER and RIVERBOAT (ORD)

40. 1967-Test«of Taser probe for recording; in
‘San’ Francisco (ORD)

41. up GLOSE (ORD) .

42. OFTEN (ORD)

43. SALVAGE

44, DRUCGS

45. SANCA .

46. PROFILES :

47. MHBOUND

NW 50955 Docid:32112856 Page 14

Areaqry] pa0g “UBIO ey) Woy Adoooiod



IT. All CIA files, including without limitation any 201,
Office of Personnel, Office of Security or Executive Registry
files, on the following individuals:
1. Richard J..Lavoie (iTT)
2. .Adm. Ellery W. Stone (ITT)
3. Robert Vesco
4, Juan Trippe (PanAm)
5. Harold Geneen (ITT)
6 Robert Peloquin (Intertel)
7. jJames 0. Golden (formerly Intertel)
8 M. Salvatore Giancana
9. John Roselli (or "John Ralston")
10. Santos Trafficante
il. Robert. Merritt
12. G. Gordon Liddy
13. Howard Hunt |
14, James McCord
1s. Bernard Barker
16. Eugenio Martinez
17. Felipe be Diego
18. Reynoldo Pico
19. Frank Fiorini (or Frank Sturgis)
20. Ramon Gonzales
21. Max Gonzales ©
22. Virgino Gonzalez

23. Manuel Artime

HW 50955 DoclId:32112856 Page 15

Arezar] prod “A preEsaD ay) wouy Adooooyg



24. Daniel Ellsberg

‘25, Andrew St. George

26. Jack Anderson (including without limitation Office of
Security file or 201 file #349691 or 349696)

27, Justice William 0, Douglas

28. Seymour Hersh

f
Hl

29, Neil Sheehan
30, Howard Hughes

31, Lee Pennington

[Where cross reference or other notations in any file indicate
that a file concerning any of the above persons is kept under
a different name, such files are also to be made available.]

TIT.Al1 CIA files, including without limitation, any Central
Cover, Commercial Cover Group or Executive Registry files
on the following organizations:

1. ITT

2. Gulf Oil Corporation

3. Hughes Tool Corporation, Summa Corp, and related entities

AseIQU] PLO “Y _PIRIIH ay) Woy Adoooioyg -

4. International Intelligence Inc. (‘‘Intertel")
5, Wackenhut Corporation

6. Dector Corporation

7. Pan American Airways

8. U.S.R.&D. Corporation

HW 50955 DoclId:32112856 Page 16


IV. All files regarding the following Projects, incidents or
entities discussed in the so-called "Family Jewels - 694 Pages,"
the responses to Director Schiesinger's request for reports on

questionable activities: {Page references in parentheses are to

the Pagination of the "694 pages"

as received by the Select Committee
from CIAL]

a. CIA contact of three persons involved with CIA £
group regarding the Watergate Specia
inquiry (p.52-53)

ield support

1 Prosecutor Task Force

CIA payment of money to the Department of Justice (p.76)

3. Involvement of CIA through Identity 36 in labor organization
internal dispute (Elder memorandum, p. 457 ££, Item 7)

Domestic Contact Service activity (deleted) (p.184,

5. FBIS Supply of translators to FBI for sensitive Wash
Project (0.202)

Ttem 11)
ington

6. Program which Carl. Duckett-.wanted to "scrub down" before its
inclusion in OTS response to DCI (p. 213)

Asesqy] ploy “y pleIBH ay) wos Adooojoyg

7. TSD (OTS) Program (deleted) (p. 215)

'

8. Projects or incidents involving .TSD,.furnishing assistance,
equipment or guidance to FBI (p.221 ff.)

9. ‘O€£ice of Research. and Develo.

pment inicrowave intercept test
(involving Idéntity 130 System (p.238 ££. para. B)

10. Telephoné intrusion Study (p.238 ££, para. C)

ll. Testof intercept system for Identity 93 communication links
(p. 238 ££. para, HA)

HW 50955 DocId:321128656 Page 17


14. Electronic surveillance of Identities 59, 60, 61, 62, 63,
64, and 65 (p.426)

1S. Arrangements between CIA and State Department Passport Office
for CIA to obtain alias Passports (p. 487-488)

16. Operation against Identity 95, including related entry opera-
tion against Ifentity 126. (p. 456 ££. Item 3)

17.° American business offer of money to be used in Panamanian
elections (Elder Memorandum, p. 456 ff. Item 6)

18.

19. Deleted item regarding non-agency cooperator and operational
tool (p. 486)

20. Provision of CIA funds to FBI (p.582)

ODO}

21. Proprietary in Falls Church, Virginia (n_ 201
22.

23.
24,

25. Provision of informatio

m to the SEC regarding organized
crime (p.541)

26. Files regarding the proprietar
veillance equipment (p.107)

y used to buy electronic sur-

Aseaqy] psod “A PIEIED ay Woy

27. TSD provision of assistance to EBI (p.109-116)

28. Office of Security Special Support Operation (p.109-116)

29. Sensitive ORD Projects (p. 163-164)

{The above requests may involve some overlap among the items in
the "Family Jewels" or between them and other elements of this
request, which overlap thé Committee is not now in a position to
determine. Where that occurs, this overlap should simply be called
"to the attention of the Committee Staff. ]

HW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 18


Iv.

€ . C

The following specific documents are also requested:

All documentation of the destruction of files on "49
personalities" which had been compiled by the Special
Operations Group/CcI

The indices to the Domestic Assets Inventory kept by the FRD

All responses by the Foreign Resources Division to the
request of Director Schlesinger for information on "question-
able activities" including any "follow-up" responses to
Director Schlesinger, Director Colby or the IG.

All employee responses or memoranda of conversations with
employees both from within FRD and elsewhere in the CIA,
and all other memoranda, notes, or other documents and
materials used by FRD in preparing any of the responses
to DCI or used in preparing any related briefings of the
DCI or his assistants.

May 29, 1973 memorandum from Chief, Covert: Intercept Branch,
Division D, FI Staff to the Inspector General (TS-Eyes Only-
Control SC 66611/73)

All other responses by Division D to the request of Director
Schlesinger for information on "questionable activities,"
including any "follow-up" responses to Director Schlesinger,
Director Colby or the IG :

All employee responses or memoranda of conversations with
employees both from within Division D and elsewhere in CIA,
and all other memoranda notes or other documents and materials
used by Division D in preparing any of the responses to DCI

or in preparing any related briefings of DCI or his assistants.

Western Hemisphere Division's list of Cuban refugee organ-
izations in which CIA had interests (Page B-17, Tab 15 of
CIA notebook on domestic activities prepared in response to
Part IV of Committee March 12 document request.)

May 15, 1973 memorandum by Harry B. Fisher to DD M § S on
“irregular activities."

All Inspector General memoranda to DCI regarding "questionable
activities," "Family Jewels" or similar matters subsequent to
the 1G Report of May 21, 1973.

All Office of-Security Watch Office tapes and transcriptions
thereof for the period June 16 to June 22, 1972.

NW 50955 DoclId:32112856 Page 19

a
>
g
E
>
3
3
=>
a
g
=
e
Pp
be
¢
a
im
=
s
3
a


10. All correspondence, memoranda or other documents prepared
within or received by CIA in connection with the 1965 order
of President Johnson barring wiretapping and electronic
eavesdropping by federal personnel.

ll. Appointment calendars of Richard Helms and Robert Cushman
1969-1973,

12, Reports by Jack Bauman December 1971- -January 1972 on meet-
ings with Howard Hunt.

50955 Dockd:32112856 Page 20

Ase1Qry plod “Y plesaQH ey) wos Adosojoyg


II. CIA PERSONNEL TO BE INTERVIEWED OR DEPOSED

The following dist indicates the CIA personnel the Committee has thus
far decided to interview, or depose.* Where known, specific persons are
identified, In all other cases, the position or program responsibility and
pertinent years are provided so that CIA can identify the appropriate per=

sons; if the person is no longer with the Agency, the Agency should pro-

vide the last known addresses.

A. Directorate of Operations
1. DDO AREA
William Nelson, Tom Karamessines, David Blee, Cord Meyer

Executive Assistant to DDO (1966-1972)
Director of Missions and Program Staff (inception ~ 1972)

COUNTERS ee

2. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE STAFF

Donovan Pratt, Jane Ronan, Newton Miller, John Hodden,
Brick O'Neal .

Executive Assistant to CH/CI (1966-1972)
Chief, Police Group (1967-1972)

Special Operations Group?
Richard Ober, Jason Horn

Deputy Chief (1967-1973)

Secretary to Chief and Deputy Chief
Branch Operations Officer

All "Case Officers”

* Individuals are listed under the office in which they worked during
the period in question. | Organizational entities are identified as
they existed in those periods.

RW 50955 Docld:32112856 Page 21

acd
¥
3
a
3
“é
2
g
=
oO
Q
ea
8
a.
fad
7
oc
&
c
3
3


CL Personnel handling Projects:

SRPOINTER
HILINGUAL

OPERATIONS STAFF

Seymour Bolten

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE STAFF
Chief and Deputy Chief/FI (1967-1973)
Division (of Staff) D:

Carelton Swift, Warren L.,,Dean, Frederick Griffin,
Gerald Fallon, Frank Hoose.

Chief and Deputy Chief/D; Deputy for Plans and
Policy/D (1967-1973)

CENTRAL COVER STAFF
Eric Eisenstadt

Chief and Deputy Chief (1965-1975)
Chief, Corporate Cover Branch (1965-1975)

COVERT ACTION STAFF

Chief and Deputy Chief (1965-1973)
FAR EAST DIVISION

Chief (1968)

Domestic Operations Branch (1967-1973)
Branch Chiefs and Project Officers for:

(a) MPLODESTAR (and ‘MPCHAUVINTSM and MPTROTKA,
if separate project officers);

(b) "PROJECT 1" as described by the Rockefeller
Commission Report (p. 137);

(c) Mail opening involving Far East correspondence
(1967-1973)

WESTERN EUROPE DIVISION

Officers involved in queries of stations oa Robert Vesco
and 10S matters and in communications to Swiss authorities
regarding Vesco's detention :

Principal liaison officer with CL/So0G (1967-1973)

HW 50955 DoclId:32112856 Page 22

z
8
5
>
2

3

a
a

Q
ao

3

=
7
=
g

a
5
is
3
2


“ vegas,
. ee
®
9, AFRICAN DIVISION

Principal liaison officer with CI/S0G (1967-1973)

10, DOMESTIC OPERATIONS DIVISION (now FOREIGN RESOURCES DIVISION)

Gordon Jorgenson, John.Shaffer, Seymour Russell, Walter O'Brien,

Stanley Gaines, Robert T. Cassidy, Joseph Bulik, Maurice Sovern,
John Markham, Lydia Kenney

Chief (1964-1973)
Deputy Chief, Chief Intelligence Operations Group;
Chiefs Branch I and Branch II; Chief Special Projects
7 Staff (1967-1973)
Chief Commercial Management; Chief Commercial Operations
(1964-1971)
«Base+Chiefs New York, Miami,..Chicagoy#San Francisco, Boston,
“- Los Angeles, and Washington (1964-1973)

All supervisory personnel, NUWCYOEK:BaSe (1968-1973)

11. WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

William Broe, J. D. Esterline, Bruce Cheever,
Ted Shackley, Lawrence SternfeldjiPatl\Holtiwell

Chief and Deputy Chie£/WH (1965-1973)

Chief, Cuban Operations (1965-1973)

Chief, Cuban Operations Group, Miami Operations Branch
Chief, Miami Station (JMWAVE) (1963-2973)

Chile Desk Officer, Headquarters (1971-1972)

12, SOVIET BLOC DIVISION

Chief, U. S. Operations Branch (1967-1973)

Project Officer and Branch Chief on SRPOINTER, HTLINGUAL
13, TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION (now OFFICE OF TECHNICAL

SERVICES, DDS&T

AsesQr] ps0.4 “A presen ay) wo Adoso}04g

Carl Duckett, John McMahon, ‘Everett.O'Neal, Paul. Kater,
Note Jackson, John Ward?!

Chief, Deputy Chief and Deputy Chief for Operations/TSD
(2965-1973)

Chief Audio Branch; CH/Training Branch; and CH/Special
Devices Branch (1967-1973)

HW 50955 DoclId:32112856 Page 23


TSD Officers in charge of training and in charge of
~ technical assistance for:

(a) Penetration of locks and other security
barriers in. connection with surreptitious
entry; .

(b) Electronic, other technical, or photographic
surveillance (1967-1973)

B. Directorate of Management and Services

1. OFFICE OF SECURITY

Charles Kane, Edward Sayle, Louis Vasaly, Cecil Tighe,
Arthur Sheridan, Victor White, John B. Cryer, Jack Bauman,
William Curtin, Walter Richardson, Frank Favorini,
Jaiies’MéCabe, Edmund Kilppa, Joseph Langea, J. K, Hutchinson,
Ralph Orcutt, John J. Sullivan, Frederick Evans,

Lawrence Howe, David Hanlon, MiSeitian,
Meredith Flook, Jack-Turtén, George R. Brewer, George Swegman

Project Officer in Office of Security and Project Officer
at Anderson Associates for PROJECT MERRIMAC:

Office representatives involved in proposal of "PROJECT 1"
referred to in the Rockefeller Commission Report (p. 137);

Project Officer for PROJECT RESISTANCE.

2. OFFICE OF COMMUNICATIONS
Richard Scott, Lloyd-Harnage, Florend... Kindell,

{Daniel Wakeman, James Fisher, F. G. Israe Fson,
‘“Yohn Coffey, Arthur Reinhardt, Paul’ Rinaldo”

3. OFFICE QF FINANCE
Warren D. Magnuson, Thomas Yale
Director (1965-1975)

Director, Monetary Division (1965-1975)
Director, Proprietary Systems and Accounts Diviston (1965-1975)

a]
y.
2
E
>
é
3
=
eo
i)
ea
a.
a
tad
n
g
i
C
S$
8
2

Cc. ” Directorate of Intelligence

1. OFFICE OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH

Officers tasking other CIA offices for queries on Robert Vesco
and 10S .

H¥ 50955 DocId:32112856 Page 24


2. DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE

Vernon Sando

DCS Director;
Chief of New York Office, DCS (1967-1973)

D. Directorate of Sctence and Technology

Robert Chapman, Sayre Stevens, James Kirsch, John McMahon

E. DCI Area
1. OFFICE OF LEGAL COUNSEL

John Warner
John K. Greaney

2, OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

John Maury
George Carey

3. INSPECTOR GENERAL AND REVIEW STAFF

Donald Chamberlain, Scott Breckenridge, William Broe

4, OTHER

Seymour Bolten
John Clarke

HW 50955 DocId:321128656 Page 25

5
@
>
3
3
>
e
Qa
&
a
=
7 i
2]
g
a
C
ca
3
a


ian to a AR de beaten ereeae ntti

- C  ¢

Tit.

The following staff members along with the senior staff of the

Committee are Presently working on this aspect of the Select Committee's

inquiry:

Burton Wides
Michael Madigan
Elliot Maxwell
Howard Liebengood
Paul Wallach
Joseph diGenova
John Peterson

If other persons begin te work in this area, appropriate notification
will take place.

ee

Aaesqr] ploy “a PreuaH sy) usoay Adooowoyg

HW 50955 DocId:32112856 Page 26
