Date

02/06/97
Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

ROCKCOM

178-10002-10337

ASSASSINATION FILE

A-I(I) INTERVIEWS RE ASSASSINATIONS

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM : BELIN, DAVID
TO : THE FILE
TITLE : INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL MAXWELL TAYLOR
DATE : 05/16/75
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS : TAYLOR, MAXWELL

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

BAY OF PIGS

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
KENNEDY, ROBERT

DULLES, ALLEN

BURKE, ARLEIGH

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY
OPERATION MONGOOSE

CUBAN EXILES

MIAMI

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS OPEN IN FULL
CURRENT STATUS : OPEN
DATE OF LAST REVIEW 02/06/97
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


Date:07/10/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 1781000210337

RECORDS SERIES :
ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : A-I(I) INTERVIEWS RE ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM : BELIN, DAVID
TO : THE FILE
TITLE :
INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL MAXWELL TAYLOR
DATE : 05/16/75
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS :

TAYLOR, MAXWELL
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

BAY OF PIGS

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
KENNEDY, ROBERT

DULLES, ALLEN

BURKE, ARLEIGH

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY
OPERATION MONGOOSE

CUBAN EXILES

MIAMI

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES «22
Washington, DC 20500 ‘

MEMORANDUM
TO : The File
FROM : David W. Belin

SUBJECT : Interview with General Maxwell Taylor

Belin: General Taylor, we're here on the 16th day of May os

1975 at the offices of the CIA Commission in Washington
and I have had an opportunity to review with you certain mat-
ters relating to your participation during the Kennedy Adminis-
tration in matters involving Cuba, and I've asked you a number
of questions and we've talked informally and now what I would
like to do is to have it in question and answer form. Is that
correct?

Taylor: Right.

B: All right. First of all, you might tell me when you
came down to Washington to first serve with the Kennedy
Administration in 1961.

T: I came down at the end of April at the invitation of

the President to chair a group of four in the investi-
gation of the Bay of Pigs--to analyze the causes of its failure
and why it failed and whatever lessons that we decided the Presi-
dent--should be called to the President's attention. My collea-
gues were Bob Kennedy, Allen Dulles and arleigh Burke. We worked
on that report from the--the end--through the end of April and
May--as I recall they got a final report to the President some-
what after the middle of June.

B: All right. If we can stop this tape a minute, I think
I have a document upstairs which will give us the exact

date which it was done. So I'm going to stop the tape now and

check to see if it's recording and then I'll be right back down.

I'm going to continue now, General Taylor, and according to the
notes I have you report--your memory is very good, by the way,
for events that took place nearly fourteen years ago--your re-
port was dated June 13, 1961 by way of a letter sent to Presi-
dent Kennedy, and it refers to an April 22, 1961 letter from
President Kennedy to you directing you, together with Robert
Kennedy, Admiral Arley Burke, and Allen Dulles as Director of '

eg

DECLASSIFIED
UE Accace. Ree. Collection Act cf 1292

RAVAGFA MINT OT AMMAN gUT Ways ranantane



a

- in the past?

-2-

v2

Central Intelligence, to undertake a study with regard to the
Bay of Pigs, and also certain recommendations. According to
this document, President-elect Kennedy--or President Kennedy--
first learned about the existence of plans for the overthrow
of the Castro Government because of the call on him at Palm
Beach by Allen Dulles and Richard Bissell, who was the Deputy
Director of Plans of the CIA and who had overall coordinating
supervision of the Bay of Pigs operation, and according to
your--the document that you prepared which I assume was based
upon your study of the facts, that the first formal briefing
of President Kennedy was on January 28, 1961 with Vice Presi~
dent Lyndon Johnson, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, Director of Central Intelligence, Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff and others present at that briefing.
Does that sound like perhaps it might be accurate so far as
to what the events were?

T: It sounds correct. Obviously I don't recall speci-
fically the details you mentioned.

B: I also noted that one section which I happened to note
had language along the lines of this. It said "We also
feel that the occasion offers the President the opportunity to
express to his principal assistants and advisers his sense of
the need of a changed attitude on the part of the Government
and of the people toward the emergency which confronts us. The
first requirement of such a charge is to recognize that we are
in_a life-death struggle which we may be losing and will lose
unless we change our way and marshall our resources with an in-
tensity-- (I Font read my own writing here)--intensity associated
X times of war." And then the remaining part of
the paragraph it said the Director of Central Intelligence had
not participated in it says "To effect this change we must give
immediate consideration to taking such measures as announcement
of a limited national emergency, the review of any treaties or
international agreements which restrain the full use of our.re-
sources in the cold war and the determination to seek the respect
of our neighbors without the criterion of international popularity
and the policy being taken into account the proportioning of
foreign aid to the attitudes shown us by our neighbors. In the
light of the strained situation in Laos and the potential crisis
building up over Berlin, we should consider at once affirmative
programs to cope with the threat in both areas. I don't know
if you remember that that might have been part of it at all
or not? .

AVAATT MINT MM aMwraA TUT MTs Tanantans

T: Well, yes. Again, I don't recall the specific language,
but I would say that was rather consistent with our
frame of mind. This was not the height--at least one of the high
points--in the Cold War and the Khruschev threat on Berlin was
very much on our minds, the question of whether Castro and the



activities in the Caribbean were related in any way to the
pressure being placed on Berlin, All these things were in our
mind, plus the fact that we had demonstrated in the Bay of Pigs
operations that here in Washington we just had never thought
through the problem of utilizing resources from numer--several
departments for purposes such as this--the Cold War purposes.

B: Now, during the time that you prepared this paper,
were you aware of any assassination plots against

the lives of Castro or anyone else that might have been under-

taken by the CIA?

T: . IT was not.

B: Were you ever aware of the existence of any plans to
assassinate Castro?

T: I was not. :

B: Did you ever have any discussions with either the

President or the Attorney General or the Director
of Central Intelligence, concerning the possibility or the
existence of plans to assassinate Castro--either the possi-
bility or the existance?

Ts Certainly not with the President. Now in the case of
Bob Kennedy and Allen Dulles we talked about so many
things during the Bay of Pigs as one sits around the table, I
couldn't say that--that the desirability of the disappearance
“of Castro or what would happen if he were assassinated in Cuba
--that was not raised, I don't recall.

Bs You don't recall any specific conversation one way
or the other?
T: No. .
B: Did you ever have any conversations with McGeorge Bundy

or Walt Rostow about it?

T: No. None of those officials. Again, under the same

RAWAITT THOT oH ATID TUT UTZ Tanantate

terms as I indicated in the case of Bob and Allen Dulles,
that they -- in the course of the daily work, we see men constantly

and you're thinking so much about the Cuba problem, I couldn't
Say that assassination in the abstract--"Wouldn't it be a nice
thing if someone bumped Castro off"+-that could well have been
said, but I just don't recall it.



-4- , '

B: Do you recall the existence of any approval to have
the CIA undertake such a --
T: Never!
B: Did you ever hear the phrase “executive ‘action
capability" which was defined as a Standby capability
of assassinating foreign leaders. Did you ever hear
Ts: --that's a code phrase, meaning like you indicate? n
¢
B: Well, a phrase called and which refers to the capability C
of assassinating foreign leaders?
Ts No.
B: Now, you also told me that you attended a meeting of

the Special Group (Augmented) that occurred on or
about August 10, 1962 at the Department of State.

T: I assumed that I did. I don't specifically remember
that date or what the agenda might be, but by looking

at the documents you have shown me I was the Chairman of the

Mongoose aspect of the Special Group and I assume I was there.

Bs General Lansdale worked with you?

T: He did.

Bs In what capacity?

Ts He was in charge of putting together a feasible programs

~7program or programs--which would include ways and mean,
. restraining Castro. We were very much concerned whether in
the ebullience of victory at the Bay of Pigs he might not intan-
sify a campaign already begun as a matter of fact, to infiltrate
agents in Latin America, as the saying was, to export Communism
to Latin America, so we were thinking of ways and means and pro-
grams that might be devised to prevent that.

xMvaart oioa ow anwrae cur ues rans

B: Do you have any recollection of what might have been
said at a meeting that might have occurred in August
of 1962?

T: No. I couldn't recall any specific meeting. If you
had the minutes or something I'm sure it might suggest

r



B: You took over from General Lemnitzer?

Ts Yes.

Bs And then you remained as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of staff until when?

Ts Until July 1964 when I went to Vietnam as Ambassador.

B: Do you have any information that you think might in

Br Do you have any recollection as to whether or not
someone at that meeting might have raised the possi-
bility of the liquidation of Castro?

Ts Well, as you say, it might have possibly occurred, it
might possibly have occurred, but if it did, I don't
recall it.

B: Do you recall any conversations that might have occurred
at any such meeting?

Te: No. Again with the ininutes, if you have them, I'm sure m

stimulate my memory.

B: How long did you stay in Washington in your service
with the Kennedy Administration?

T: Well I stayed in the White House as the Military

Representative of the President in which capacity I
was generally his alter ego if you will for military and intel-
ligence matters. On October 1, 1962 he designated me to become
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and moved out of the
White House and gave up the White House-related position.

any way be relevant to the investigation of this Com-
mission so far as possible unlawful domestic activities of the
CIA is concerned?

RUVAATT THOT 8H ATTAIN TUT Wests Tananrads

T: No, I really don't, except as I mentioned to you before
we started to tape this that there was a mass of Cubans

. in the United States based generally in the Miami area who cer-

tainly had many of them there who would like to see Castro dead
and would be--would have been very happy to collaborate with
getting him that way. Whether or not, conceivably low-level CIA
agents, as is sometimes the case, overzealous subordinates ever

“encouraged any or talked to them or made any propositions to them,

I don't know, but clearly it's a possibility. But I certainly

never saw anything in my relations with the senior CIA officials
to suggest that they this as a proposition, as something they :
were recommending or supporting or advising the President to do.



you for you to see and perhaps initial, to where should we mail
it?

T:
Br

Ts:

B:

-6-

Anything else you can think of that might be relevant?
No, I.don't think--I don't.

Any information that you think might be relevant so far.
as the assassination of President Kennedy is concerned
don't think is public information now.

No. Absolutely nothing on it.

Well, we thank you very much for coming down. If you
want--if we want to send a copy of the transcript to

2500 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Apartment 1.
And is there a zip code on that?

20008

And do you have a phone number there?
483-5050.

All right. And thank you very much for your cooperation

Sir, and I had better check to see if this actually re-
corded here.

(END OF TAPE)

*
¢
t
¢
€
¢
x
r
»
a
i
.
D
b
ii
*
é
t
&
&
5
K

