# 179-40005-10040

## Page 1

179-40005-10040

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER : 179-40005-10040

RECORDS SERIES :

23: PUB 3

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 01/15/64

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

ADZHUBEY, ALEKSEY, COMMENTS TO THAI AND SOVIET BLOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:/

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

ALSO IDENTIFIED AS REPORT NO. CS-3/569, 958; FOUR COPIES. BOX C02

CIA Approve for solace only the

The other cofie

are not opponed for releas.

(R]

— ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955 DocId: 32211189 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ra She: Nattor

raneti ladon

LIGENCE STENC:

saries to no unauthortard, pason

FORETO

DISSEE

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

SHEA ILAND/USSR

COUNTS "BY ALEKSEX ADZHUEE

SO THAI AND SOVTRT BLOC:

CFZICIALSTA

REPORT NOT CS: -3/359195A

DATE, DISTR. U

L5 JANUART 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES:

DATE OF.

INFO:

"PLACE & "

DATE ACG.

SOURCES

Hui

24 NOVSER 1963

WEATLAND, BANGKOK

LATE DECENARE 196

TÁNU RY 1064) CIELD REPORT NO. FED 7675].

THIS IS UNEVALI

OS ARE DEFINTIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS,1

PAL 1'-A EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN (3) WHO HAS OCCASIONAL CLOSE CONTACT UTTE

SOVIET BLOC TRADE AND' GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.

PARA 2:

ALPRAISAL. OF CONTENT: HADZEUREY' PROBABLY MADE, THE COMMENTS AS REPORTED.

PURING A RECEPTION AT WAS SOVIET IMBASSY, ALEISEY ADZHUBEY

CRIOUS TURE HEURCED TES SOVIET DIPLOMATIC COMMUNITY TO 'INCREASE LiS

LAST, NUE THE WHAT-PEOPLE ORDER TO: IMPROVE: REPORTING ON LOCAL

SCOTO TIONS. '"ADZHUELY FELT THENNIAIS SHOULD KNOWITHE SOVIETS PETTER 700;

EUBEN SAID SEATO, CENTO AND VATO ARE USELESS, THAT WERE IS TROUBLS IN

EAS TEST AS LAOS, AND THAT MAILAND SHOULD LEAVE THE CHIVA PROBLEM

CAME USSR. LATER COMMONES BY ADZHUBEY TO PRIME MINISTER TRANOM AND

TOY MINISTER THANAT ON POOR PRESS COVERAGE OR SOVIET EVENTS ARE MENTIONED

7 0 2 567,770.

ATE A RECEPNION GIVEN TY IS HONOR AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY, BANCKO

NOVICER 1963; ALEKSEX ADZHUBEY, IZYESTIYA EDITOR AND KHRUSHCIRS?S.

SO: TV-LAW, DELIVERED A/SPEECH TO SOVIET BLOC REPRESENTATIVES WHO BAD BELI"

GOD TO STAY AFTER THE RECEPTION. ADZHUBEY EXPRESSED DEEP PERSONAL/ ARE

CONCURNING THE SOVIET UNION, ADZEUREX?

ER COVSINMENT BAD ERRED IN PLACING TOO CREAT AN EMPHASIS ONE ECA

LOPMENT WITH TOO LITTLE THOUGHT OR UPTORT FOR TES AGRICULTRA?

M DE, THE POPULATION:

TAL LAD TO THE SHORTAGE OF WHEAT IA PARTITA

POOD. IN GENERAL. ADZHUTCY EMPHASIZED THAT MEMBERS OF TEL EDUCA

8туT.

CIRA PHITOSOPHY ' THERCLARE MANY OTHER' AREAS ON WEICE RAT

HANSO CHE SOYIEIS SHOULD LEARN TORE ABOST CHAILAND, - BUT IT

DO TING POT. TIE THAT TO IO/S SOVIETS BITER.

ACM'

PUB

40955

DodId:32211489

‹Page

2

---

