# 180-10144-10116

## Page 1

180-10144-10116

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Classification:

(This-form-is--to--be-used-for-material-extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

• MEGANTO CIA

backyand des Only

•DO Not 0060U08

Betay tielf

Novembel 7, 1978

Kawson, Illa souzed

201-5.603

I surew of the fue indestes that it is my old we arents

from ta FBI.

Miate THIN N1794

Backgiound (iom 21 Taly 1951 Kiara, Chiy. WH to C05, Dexico Cou

0708: 25 Septenher, 1394 ( 895) 1a the York loty or Long liard

Yours was a motion pecter write in Hollywood at eportidly.

Nad been e member of de Communist Party sue 1934 Newas Negedly

one of the most important persors is the Communet more neet i Nolly

word in the late 19303. Yawron served 1 year senterce fur 1950-51

you lotempt of Cours for refusal to testify lefore the House Chantee

on An Amenear detuettes nOt, 1947.

The file indicates that:

Sofia Mens de VELASCO, Patueio Sang 36, Repatamento 6 Meres 12,

D.F., Menco and Juese PRENZA Poenza (201-29153), at the Culted

Етаму и Теісо

The fee dos not state exetty When Lawson went to the ASSR. enformattin

from an FBI Report a hawson dated 18 Del. bI indueates that haveor is

about 8 montes after his release to wock will more industry

Classification:

SECRET

11112695

•Clässified bỳ derivation:"

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON 14/98 dul

RELEASE IN FOLL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

10144-10716

---

## Page 2

Classification:

SEORET

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

A loy of an under ud i hoween bees notation;

(+ 014-006-67613]

5X-05230

28 Mo. 63

lack indicter hat Yeasata is a be Unems serept Write" I is Madug i

MARCOW Me Of 1963.

Fill Tetle: Itha Hols on loose focusents

Report No. 51 dated 28 Now. 63 Mposto ups. re Youron 1 Moscow for a

SoMe, "УГАДИСТ"

".. Soure deskes haueris attitude i treatment

in monow; thes states that hawa has now retured to kis

File Titte: Nawaba, Then Houred herse Documect

contains taly reports an which horos is mentioned

sten idistin appeas of day IT intact it here floury s

stern from the ASSR.

SECRET

Classification:

11112696

Classified by derivation:

---

