# 180-10141-10183

## Page 1

180-10141-10183

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

+09÷16-96ccr

JFK REI'ORDS

CrOss Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : ESCA

RECORD

• NUMBER: 180-10141-10183

RECORD SERIES & CIA SEGREGATED COLI ECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER 8. 13-01-01

Other Agency Equity: None

... . .....

DOCUMENT. IN FORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE

SUBJECT (8)

CHASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

Date in: 01/26/96

IT F F

F

FFFFFFFF

00/00/00

3

NOTES

SANCHEZ, CARLOS EDJARDO HERNANDEZ, 201 FILE; CIA, FILES;

UnCLASSIFIED

3

POSTPONED IN PART

: 08/01/95

: Box 5

NW 47055

DocId: 32270987 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• Carlos . ¿bduardo-Hernandez.Iunchez

#20T File

3ra Agency documents

20:September I967

INS form # G-325

INS.file nimber A-I2-437-2I5

2. Name check of June 29,I965

3. FBI May I7,I965

Classification secret

•Subject : Roberto Alejos Arzu

Kants Luis Sierra Lopez

neutrality matters -IS Guatema

*Fbi file number 2-380

4.FFBI-Octiber 10

28, I963

subject: Carlos I.H.Sanchez

no file number given

- win dime Eduardo Sanches

Nick wund "BATEA'

Biographical Date

10/15/34

Dos 1 1950- Went to N.Y. for I months on vacation

Education: 1953-1957- Lasalle, Vedado-B.S. Sience

I957-59-began studies at Villanuevi, belonged to the A.C.U.( (?) met

Artilme and organized against Bati: ta.

• Involved in various clandestine actilities

opened front in Pinar del Rio to figit against Batista, trained others t

there.

After Batista exiled, Carlos re-directrd'front to fight Castro.

(later Pinar del MA Rio front merged to becor e MRR)

&In-February of I959 Carlos went into the Siere Maestra with Artime to work

With comandos in INRA for three months: then returned to Havana.

July I959- Carlos continued studies witk at the University and worked with the

underroun

47055

DocId: 32270987

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Carlos biography cont'd.

Nov. I959- Underground work forces CArlos to cave Cube. At the airport, Carlos

with two friends are arrested. an! Jailed. arrested with Carlos

two friends: Jose Rodriguez and Jose Quintero.

Friend in high position aided relaes of Carl's, and to friends. They continued

:on to Miami with tourist visa.

•(believed that Commandante Raul Arguelles Dia: Chief Of DIR(Department of Rebel

Investigation aided in release.

Nov. tax I959- Jan I950 Carlos remained as trist in Miami. (Front ? gave subje

•us subjects money. Cardos so;d pistol.

•Jan. I960 - Artime sent for Carlos and Jose ? Rodriguez to join him (Artime) in

Mexico to work with him on counte: revolutional avtivities against

Fidel C stro. (PP( probabbly political propoganda) and recruiting

through Mexican Catholic organizations.

'Feb I960- Carlos made PP trip with Artime to Jentral America and South America.

(Carlos acted as bodyguard for Artime-) CArls. karate black belt)

March of 1960- Carlos returned to Mexico i arl then went on to Miami-

• (note- inquire as to hotels, people visitei,? about embassy personnel)

¡April I960- Carlos recruited for P.M. tr. inirg by ENZEL-Jimmy SMith .

(in file others wou Carlos can be turned over to: Theodore Windecker"Clarence"

Harold R. Noemayy" Roger Fox"

Dominique Pantleon. "Peters"

Clarence E. Smertage "TOM"

Alton I Pirnack "LArry"

Irving Cadick " RIP"

Carls aware he was working for h the CIA

Received full series of training in Clandest: ne operations,

Raider and guerilla operations, maritime op rations., and airdrops.

linited foreign intelligence duties, DRE mis: ion

Cuba

Use: PP and PM & (emphasis on PM- supply, or anization, training, tactics,

¿technigues clandestine, guerillatraider sabotage, within Cuba.

Carlos did not know agency personnel by true name. a paid treinee , with a speci

ability to handle and understand arms-$200 minhtly,

NH

47055

DocId: 32270987

Page 3

---

## Page 4

5323-60-POA.-

Carlo6-ganted:-PO1-April-I900: OA.April-4y-I9,2-

avocational interests: auto, Judo, sharpshoot ng

(CArlos had indirect contact with Roul Diaz aguerelles during revolution)

'I963-I964~ Carlos in Managua Nicaragua z; wit 1 z: see sheet #2 of OS notes)

Feb 23 , I96I- considered for project Zenith- arrived at JM/FIG

May given ploygraph for projects PM CADRE

JM.RXC: ARC

area WH 24 Cu a

Political affiliations: Member MRR

"Past: IAR-Legion de Accion Revolucionaria -se iret revolutionary organizatioin

and commanded by Manuel F. Artime. (CItholic Organization)

Commission Revolutionaria de le Universidad Cathabica Villnueva .

Contacts with the 26th of July Movement and the Revolutionary Directorate

during the renolution. (often worked togehher).

Nh

$7055 DgcId: 32270987

Page 4

---

