# 180-10143-10356

## Page 1

180-10143-10356,

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Salmer

7/12/78

Tile Review

SECRET

General Council

Oslands Bocch

012 Pel. Tel.1967

Letter I J. Walter Gagley

11611274

Tomi Sacusence R. Houstow

Re -electronic ourseillance of Bolando Inasteres

Coas Disadads of Custome said he + other

agents employed tranomette & recerier & monitor.

a meeting in hoo-1966 at which Maspered

was present. Ine of Disadados informanto

Carried transmitter into meeting + listening posto

were located in automobiles nestig: Dissodado

had received authority. D use this gupment

from Gerald Batiner who had fier pernicion

from Customs in D.C x U.S. Attorneys office

SEGRES

27 Belswary 1967.

1004033

Memorandur (unsigned.):

Subject: Estimiste of damage Which Could Occrue

I C/A meanie through Prosecution of the

Colando. Manferre Haitin Luvasion Framp,

Recent news strics about CIA Connection

with Pan American Sundation & Inversity Of

Miame o recruitment of Culow pelote in the

longs could easily trigger pathety rich

inevitable focus on the South Campus &

Miami 7 on the miami Station (oner firm

(Zenith Sechnical Enterprises, Sue For ite

10143-10356

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

7/12/18 Palmer

OGE

Orlando Bosch

SECRET

'accused" succeson, the elman Corp;

The long standing ammoisty of eestain

epile organizations againit the CIA could tempt

test accused D attack CA I gain acquittal,

blackow the CIA, a epest pressme on US. for

Oslando Bouch trial according Dover

Ram The S. elemen II general Connel

8 May 1967

17611275

It: Of. Walter Yeagley- AAG

Promi Laurenco R. Houstow- Jon Comal, CIA

I all the persons involved in the mami

homing trial, charged with solation of Arme

Control det x treutralty Act, only Orlaudo

- buch was of operational interest & the

Agency, None has ever heew the sulgeit

of electronie surveillance

1604037

Polando. Otero Hernandez

William Clay, public defender in Dade Corenty,

defending stero on bombing chargee. Admid CIA

defence uitherer will implicate CIA and

Ted Sorensons in bombing in Miami area,

feelier murder o Cir Cubana efflociou

So till the tates A SERIE.

---

## Page 3

7/12/78

Palmer

SECRET

O6e

Carlos Sernandez

Bumbaut - no notes.

Alpha 66/ Torrente Group - no notes. All

19770 information,

11.01276

SECREL :

1904035

---

