LEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J
= ar

mvs
'180-10147-10182};

, = ? a c t
| : Berk-writGhissification: ~ " — =e
a] :
! fia I of ls (This form is to.be used tol material extracted ae j
|

from ClA—controlled documents.)

Purpose and Scope of Study S450366

The Central Intelligence Agency's performance

in’ its role of support to the Warren Commission

has been a source.of controversy. since the
inception of the, Warren Commission: Critics

have repeatedly charged that the CIA‘participated
in.a conspiracy designed to suppress information
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy,
~ During .1976 the critic's

assertions were the subject of. official inquiry.

by the Senaté Select: Committee to Study

Governmental Operations (heréinafter.SSC). -The
SSC,. in its report regarding "The. Investigation
of the Assassination of. President John F. Kennedy:

Performance of the Intelligence Agencies" reached

the following.conclusion

RB 6

The Committee emphasizes that it has
not uncovered any evidence sufficient
to justify a conclusion that there was
a conspiracy to assassinate President
Kennedy.

The Committee has, however, developed
evidence which impeaches the process

ee
Classification: SECRET co SRETURNTO cla
: re Backgrou 6. City

p14? 10122.


\

cee ails
ar

SECRET

Classification: -

e i:
(This form is to be used for material extracted

“controlled documerits.) :
from SIA Egat the intelligence agencies .
arrived at their own “conclusions
about the assassination, and. by
which they Provided information:

tothe Warren i

“In addition, the Committee has
attemptea to determine whether,

if-the Warren °

Commission was misinformed or no

be
g
g
ja
g
a
ay

|

.

_ VTA
YA. “2. “GA “ER “GR wR

WR Wea.


“ SECRET.

Classification:

3, Bae te a eo i
(This form is tobe used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

result ofa conscious intent to do so by the
“Agency or. its employees.
io . The Committee has sought to examine: the -
. issue detailed. above in both an objective
and disciplined manner. In. order to accomplish
this goal the Committee has utilized a 1977
Report by the CIA'sCinspector General hereinafter
wal IGR) + This , Bevore critical “of ~
the SSC ‘Findings jan witovash Geil the SSC
Final Report conveyed an impression of limited
effort by the CIA to assist the Warren Commission
in its work. The 77 IGR was in fundamental
disagreement with this. characterization of the
SSC findings and noted that "CIA did seek and
collect information in support of the Warren
Commission.’ Additionally, it conducted studies
and submitted special analyses and reports."
(77 IGR, Introduction to Tab E.) ane %®
In-order to demonstrate further the scope
of support. provided by the CIA to the Warren
Commission, the 77-IGR contained a comprehensive

listing of CIA generated material made available

,
ad



Hy
'
ea]
|

Classification: s

SECRET,

x e
(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
to’ both the U.S. Intelligence. Community and

the Warren Commission regarding the assassina-

“the Committee agrees with the 77 IGR. wherein

tion of Président Kennedy. In this respect,

it is stated that "This compiliation (of

CIA generated material) is: appropriate to

consideration of the extent of the CIA effort,

to the extent that it reveals something of

the results of that effort."

to Tab E)

(77, IGR,

Introduction

In examining the Agency's comprehensive

listing of CIA generated material referenced above,

the Committee has paralled “its review to the

structure given:to these materialsby the 77 IGR.

In this. regard the 77. IGR details four inter-

related compilations of Kennedy asSassination

material.

1). Agency dissemination of. information

These four compilations ‘are:

Doe

to the Intelligence Community. (Formal

and Informal Disseminations

2) Dissemination of material-to the

Classification: “SECRET. PO SEE MEO
C : : 000603:

Warren Commission

>|: Classified by derivation:

§
§
j
§
6
5
$
§
5
5
5

NB.



SECRET

: ; Classification:

. - e
_ (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

3) Agency dissemination to the FBI et al
vegarding rumors and allegations
regarding President Kennedy's
assassination

4) Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
Warren .Commission. on Rumors and

Allegations Relating:to the President's

Assassination: (77 IGR, Introduction

to Tab E.)

in reviewing these compilations,

‘the Committee focused ‘upon. those
CIA materials which the 77 IGR documented as having

made available in written form to. the Warren

Commission.
During the course of this study, additional
Agency files have been reviewed. These files have

been examined in an effort to resolve certain

issues created by the review of. the Agency's

@ 6

«

compilations discussed in this report. Where
apparent gaps existed in the written record,
files have been requested and reviewed in an effort

to resolve these gaps. Where significant. substantive

Classification:

90004

ool. Classified by derivat



4 9 LT La age
Classification::. SECRET

(This form is to be used fof" material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
issues have arisen related to the kind and
quality of information -provided the Warren

Commission, files have’ also ‘been: requested and

“reviewed in an effort to resolve these issues.

As a‘ result, approximately thirty files,. comprising
an approximate total of ninety. volumes: of

material have been examined and analyzed

“in preparation of this’ report.

to modification due to the following considera=
tions. During the ‘course of the past fifteen

years, the CIA has generated massive amounts. of

iss:

information related to the assassination of

President Kennedy. In spite of the. agency
VAnjeus hail, Caray

sophisticated document retrieval system, * /certain

1
6
i
J
‘
F

documents requested by this Committee for study

and analysis have not been located. Whether these

e
cy

documents merely. have been filed incorrectly or.

destroyed,. gaps in the written record still do

000605

\y aa Secondly, due to dissimilar. standards ie eee
Ge |

Eaals provided sekackfeller
6 ise Aazeitic ing tO Likisa Sot heranCncallerr, :

aria Te ree, PCN Weis Cabin Tat cligtnce Secvice \deFecter))

(LAS 1G fo Lee Have. OATS ¥
ae AA ten ed Lemmas a Beary AP iar dali ate

exist.

g . The findings set forth herein: are eiibject,
4



ae

have been made available
Therefore,
to the degreé reflected by the Agency's denial

of access and/or santization of certain materials,

this study's conclusions are based upon the

best evidence: available to the Committee though
this may not be.all relevant evidence to which
the Agency. has. access.

One must,-.moreover, give due consideration

to the role that oral discussions, oral briefings,

and meetings of Warren Commission. and CIA
representatives may. have played in the supply of..
assassination-related information by the CIA to

the Warren Commission. The subject and substance

of these discussions, briefings, and meetings

6

may not always be reflected by the written
record made .the 7 subject of this. study.
Therefore, the Committee has conducted interviews,

depositions -and executive session en, with

-e eiA Files eee j 1 AGH
Row ing

ang06 §

na fovea fang

Janda in So cent gas eter
“ESR las a ageegie
Sanit sates ot ite opened
: ECR REL Classified by derivatie _



io sed fot meleril surat
A sents BBLS

key Warren Commission staff and members and
former or present CIA representatives in an
“effort to resolve questions that. are not
addressed by the written record. The results
of the Committee's efforts to chronicle this
aspect of the working relationship between the
Warren Commission and the CIA willbe a’ subject ©:
for discussion herein.

In addition, this report will.examine the
following: subjects generated by the Committee's
study as outlined above,"in the following general
order. of. discussion:

1) the organization of the CIA's investigation

of President. Kennedy's assassination;

2) the working relationship of the Warren

Commission staff.and those CIA representatives

concerned with the Warren Commission inquiry;

‘
3) the standards of investigative cooperation
which the Warren Commission staff believed j
to govern the quality and quantity of
information supplied by the CIA to the 4
’ Warren Commission; j
fone

20.0543 | atid by tag, CBee

VO ww wa a

4



is farm We te be. used for material extrqatato”
Um SA—contrelled dscuments:) [of

oe oe?

or oes of its

4) the CIA
sensitive gources and methods and the
consequent effects of this concern
upon the Warren Commission investigation;
and

5). the substance and quality of.information
concerning Luisa Calderon passed to the
Warren Commission and the results of this
Committee's investigation of Calderon
and her significance to the events of

November 22, 1963.

Ir. ‘Select Cammitike Stud, st -
woelect SSM! : ——- :

Information Made Available by CIA to Warren

Commission see CIA P foosstd ae
See beginning of this —

VG. Gi WER. GE GA “ER YR WA GA GA “A

099608
: co

an c0S45 : yes | Else wy Sepa, —2—Back

LM LD 4 Le i a a a

RE.


Gis form ig te be ged fer material sec
ram, Ca—eonrelied aeeumente} i
To be insx Ted prion +h Section TE

“TL. organization of CIA Investigation

of President Kennedy's Assassination

In his Executive Session testimony before the Select
Committee, Richard Helms, the CIA's Deputy Director for
Plans during 1963, described the CIA's role in the
investigation of President Kennedy's assassination as
“follows:

This crime was committed on United
States soil. Therefore, as far as the
Federal government was concerned, the pri-
mary investigating agency would have been
the Federal Bureau of Investigation without
any question. The role of the CIA would

have: been entirely supportive in the sense

ces

Boe
of what material we are (sic) able- to
acquire outside the limits of the United
States with reference to the investigation.
+++ For investigative purposes, the Agency
Glessitication: SECRET. «=. 000099
“2000525 aaa
ate | Gaza by

.

x



» SECRET, .

ffs form is te be used for material extracted!
fam Sa—contralied decuments:)

had no investigative role inside the United

States at all. So when I used here the

word "supportive," I meant that in the

literal sense of the term. We are (sic)

trying to support the FBI and support the

Warren Commission and be responsive to

their requests, but we were not initiating

‘any investigations of our own or, to my

recollection, were we ever asked to.

{Executive Session Testimony of Richard

Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 17-18.) .

On November 23, 1963. Helms. called a meeting of senior-
level CIA officials to outline the Agency's investiga-
tive responsibility vis a vis the assassination. (SSC,
Book V, p-.25.). At that time, Helms placed John Scelso,
Branch Chief for CIK operations i Mexico, Central

America, anal Panama, yn-charge of the Agency's initia®  »6

investigative efforts. (HSCA Class. Deposition of John

Scelso,*5/16/78, pp. 111-112, Exec. Session’ Testimony

Gisssitiction SECRET _ 090010

Na, Wi Wi WR. “WD WH WR UG. GR WGA GA

RGD.


cm iE fg ows 4 fg “ne Sassi

—con'
rom CIA—e8n SeuSnes:

of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 10.)

Scelso testified before the Select Committee,

that he was given charge of the Agency's investigation
on the basis of two considerations: 1)!his prior
experience in conducting major CIA security investi-
gations and 2) the observance of Oswald by CIA

surveillance in Mexico, (Scelso's operational concern)

less than two months prior to the assassination. (SSC

Book V, p. 25, HSCA Class. Deposition of John Scelso,

5/16/70, pp. 111-112.°;) Scelso also noted that
during the course of his investigative efforts, Helms

did not pressure him to adopt: specific investigative

theories nor reach conclusions within a set period of
. time; Executive Session Testimony of Richard Helms ,

¢ /9/78, pp. 9-10)*

* Raymond Rocca, :Chief of Research and Analysis.for @ »
CIA's .Counterintelligence Staff characterized Scelso's

D,
eso
ee

i

\ responsibility not as a mandate to investigate but
y rather to “coordinate traffic (code facilitation,
Cc telegram or telegraphic consideration) for working

with the DDP with respect to what was being done over
the whole world..."  (HSCA Classified Deposition of
R. Rocca, 7.17/78,;. p. 9.)

Rocca referred.to this phase of CIA activity as
the GPFLOOR phase. (Ibid.)

fication; —=-25=— -pp00td
2ncos37 Gadi :

i MM a a a

i
i



(This, form is to’ be’ used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Scelso described in detail to the Committee the
manner in which hé conducted the Agency's investiga-
tion:

«--practically my whole Branch participated
in.the thing. We dropped almost everything
else and I put a lot of my officers to work
in tracing names, analyzing, files.

We were flooded with cable traffic, with

“om Neer Nema worm,

reports, suggestions, allegations from all eee

over the world, and these things had to be A
checked out.. We were checking out just dozens ME
and dozens. of people all the time. (HSCA Classified
Deposition of John Scelso, 5/16/70, p. 131)* e /

*. Durimg the course of the Agency's invetigation, Liaison
with the FBI was handled for the CIA by Birch O'Neak.
(Ibid. p. 80.) at the time of the assassination Mr. O'Neal,

a former FBI agent, was Chief of the Special Investigations

Group of the CIA's Counterintelligence Staff. (HSCA Classified
Deposition of Birch O'Neal, 6/20/78, p. 7, 52.) Mr. O'Neal
characterized his functions with respect to the Agency

Bo 6 be

as follows:

on bottom of page 5)

88 oga2

: Classification: Ea

(This footnote -~ Footnote *- -- continues f

- 2e0534



(This form is. t8 be. used for materia! sabacted
rom CrA—sentrolled decuments;)

Scelso stated during his testimony: that CIA -
field stations worldwide were alerted to the Agency's
investigation "and the key stations were receiving
tips on the case, most of which were phony. We did not

send. out’ instructions: saying: everybody participate in

the investigation." (Ibid. p. 133.) It was his PAA
)
: y Nn ‘ recollection, however, that throughout his tenure as io
NY
ve, coordinator of the Agency's investigation, ene(Goxico oO

Ze

a City Station)was the only CIA field station directly
6 ;
Cee ee

Footnote * continued from bottom.of page 4.

I knew that we (at CIA) did not. have the
basic responsibility: for. investigating ‘the
assassination of the President. If there was
a crime commited in the course’ of this activity,
+sic) it belonged to the FBI. I recognized that
it was our responsibility to give the fullest
cooperation to the FBI to protect the Agency
with regard to any aspects of our operations,
you understand, and at the same time giving them
cooperation, and I was in close contact.with Mr.
Sam Papich (of the FBI), and always. fully co-
operated, and he always fully cooperated with™he.e
(Ibid. p. 52.)

O'Neal noted that his office (CI/SIG) at the direction of .
the Chief of Counterintelligence, James Angleton, was
designated the central point for collection of assassination=-

related information made available to the FBI. (Ibid. pp.°52~53.

900013
2000599 | Glessified by derixation:, —————



fis form if t8 be tied for material extracted
fam CrA—eentralled decuments.)

involved in investigatory activities: rélated to President

Kennedy's assassination.” (Ibid.)
= Ov 1ep3fE3

7 Scelso

issued a summary report which described Oswald's

activities in Mexico City from September 26, 1963 -

October. 3, 1963. Scelso characterized the summary report :

as incomplete by comparison to assassination-related
information then available to the FBI but not provided
to CIA until late Dec. 1963. (Ibid. p. 114-115.). (CIA
Document Report: by John Scelso to c/et, 4 bec. 63.)*
Following issuance of this report, Helms shifted
responsibility for. the CIA's investigation of President’
Kennedy's assassination to the  Counterintelligence
Staff. (HSCA Classified Deposition of John Scelso,
5/16/78, p.'136, cf. HSCA Classified Deposition of
Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78, p..15 wherein Rocca states that
responsibility shifted from Scelso to CI Staff-on Be 6

January 12, 1964.) Helms testified that this shift in

* Approximately two days after President Kennedy's
assassination, Scelso prepared a summary report,
provided to President Johnson by. Helms. This ‘report
adopted the position that Oswald probably was a lone
assassin who had no visible ties to Soviet or Cuban
intelligence though such ties could not be exéluded

Cte 00014

pS RE

&

i
|

if ‘et ue derivation:

°


x

: elegy oye
Ghassification:-
rips is {9 ae used cc i Sitesiss

om eer as nent 2)

responsibility was a logical: development because the

investigation had.begun to take on broader tones.

(Executive Session Testimony of Richard Helms, 8/9/78,
p. 14,.see also HSCA Classified Deposition of John
Scelso, 5/16/78, p. 138.)

Helms" reasoning was expanded upon by Raymond
Rocca who testified before’ the Committee that the
shift in responsibility described by Helms was caused
in part by the establishment of the Warren Commission.
(HSCA’ Classified. Deposition of Raymond Rocca, pp. 12-13.)
Rocca added:

‘It. was entirely appropriate in the...
GPFLOOR phase that he (Scelso) would
have that (responsibility for the Agency
investigation. ) ‘But the minute you had ho
a commission set up outsilde the line
obviously had -to be the Director, and from Q b
the Director to his Chief of Operations &, i
overseas, bécause the spread involved fe
then all-of the divisions. Here you had
Mr. (Scelso) being asked t gn off on

ad

cables sae Netherlands,
th

d™it would

‘e

simply a hybrid monster. oa Classified
Deposition of R. Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 12.)

James Angleton supported Rocca's belief that "the

spread (of.investigative responsibility) involved...

3 1 2 LBCDs Bs 000015

| li yj cn

yh A a eae

2ccOsie



,
p
g
g
dl
g
4
p
&p
p
6
p

-8-
Ghesification: ee
(itis (i tee is tg be ted ise es Siresisd

hOn CIA Sent SH eUMEnts

all of the (CIA) divisions." Angleton testifed
to this Committee that the Agency's efforts to
gather and coordinate information related to
the assassination underwent a metamorphic
transition. Initially, Angleton ‘noted, the
Director, Deputy Director, Division Chiefs. and
Case Officers approached Warren Commission£7~
requirements in a piecemeal fashion. However,
Angleton testified the Agency was eventually
able to focus its’ resources to avoid duplication
of effort and provide a system for the central
referencing of assassination related information
as such information was developed. (HSCA
Classified Deposition of James Angleton,
10/5/78, pp. 76-77, see also HSCA Classified
Deposition of Raymond Rocca, 8/17/78,

p. 23.)

ET

g
3

g3

Se

wa

Glessification; 000016

|: ated by eaten,

a a a a a a

.

PR ee


— ——

The-record: reveals that during this. second: phase

4
>

v RA of CIA information collection efforts in support of

the Warren Commisssion investigation the concentration

~~
ge SF
La aN

of Agency resources shifted in emphasis from exploration

of Oswald's activities in Mexico:City to his residency

in the Soviet Union during 1959~1962.and possible

S

Cary)

association with the Soviet intelligence apparatus.*

(Ibid., pp-32-33,44,Executive Session of Testimony of

Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 23.)” A gesrhing 3, Rocca commented
. that during this phase primary interest in support of the
Warren Commission was to follow-up on Soviet leads:

on the assumption that a person who spends ~

four years**in the Soviet Union, under his

circumstances, had to be of specific interest
to Soviet State security and their collateral
authorities. «(HSCA Classified Deposition of

*x.
Raymond Rocca, pp. 32-33.) Cseep 1& fee Ye 7

Ve Vib Yh TR GR GA GA “GA GA GL

Therefore, Rocca concluded, the areas the CIA tended

to concentrate on concerned the Soviets:

i

WR. Wie.

Glsssification SECRET =—_o000i7



(iis form is te be used for material exteastal
from ClA—centralled documents.)

*The following exchange between Mr. Rocca and Committee
Counsel sheds further light on the difficulties encountered
by the Agency related to its investigation of possible J
Cuban involvement in the assassination: t

= Mr. Goldsmith. -Earlier, when I asked you which
areas of the case received emphasis, I believe that you
indicated that on balance the primary area of emphasis
was the Soviet connection.

Mr. Rocca. That was certainly the one that I would
say dominated -- looking at it from my point of view.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, had you known about the anti-
Castro assassination plots on the part of the CIA, would
you have given more priority, more emphasis, to the
possibility of a Castro conspiracy to kill the President?

Mr. Rocca. Again, I say that it would have
simply intensified it, that there was attention given
to it, not particularly by the staff.* I had no capabilities
on the Cuban side.

The organization of their service and their
operation in Mexico was something entirely entirely (sic)

within -- it was an'enigma at the time.’ They were: just
_getting started. . This was WH's area.. This was Gin
Scott's™srea of proficiency. So the defectors had only

egun to come out and they came out later, the Cuban
defectors. : 1

So,. I can't.-- I really can't say that (a) the
Cuban connection was ignored, because it wasn't. -The
press was filled with it at the time:

The Harker interview should’ have been undoubtedly,
given greater attention in a generalized sense; but it
was given specific attention, I was told at the time of
the Rockefeller thing.

Mr. Goldsmith. In what way was the Cuban connection
investigated?

Mr. Rocca. JI don't know. I don't know this.
That side of the report strikes meas being inadequate.

SECRET,

|. Classified by derivation:

2000635 : : |. Classified by derivation:

= oe 900618.



Elassification: SECRET. E

{fis form is te be ased-for matasial extedted
ElA=centralled documents)

Mr. Goldsmith. Well, when I said to what extent
was the Cuban connection investigated, I don't mean by
the Warren. Commission. I mean to. what extent did’ the
Agency provide --

Mr. Rocca. That I can't answer. I certainly
didn't do it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Pardon me?

Mr. Rocca. We certainly didn't, in R & A.

Mr. Goldsmith. So, CI/R & A did not ~-

Mr. Rocca... Go into the Cuban: side of it at all.
This was something left to the people who were concerned
specifically with Cuban intelligence and security operation.

Mr. Goldsmith... But I believe earlier we
established that Mr. Helms ‘gave orders that information
pertinent to the assassination was to go through your
office, correct?

Mr. Rocca. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. And once’ information pertinent
to the assassination went through your office, I. take. (it)
you or Mr. Helms would decide what. information’ would
be relevant for the Warren Commission to see.

Is that correct?

Mr. Rocca. Well --

e

a a a

Mr. Goldsmith. Based upon what you knew? 6
Mr. Rocca. Well, everything would go, yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Therefore, you were in the
position, it would seem, to know what information was
being generated in the field that was going to the
Warren Commission.

Earlier I asked you which area received emphasis
and I believe you indicated that the Soviet area (did).

eee
~ Glassificatign: —-=~  ppeod8
200637 cee



9c. =

Classification: ECD

(This form is fe be used for material extnated
€A=<entrelled documents.)

Mr. Rocca. Primarily, primarily. But I didn't
mean by that that it excluded the Cuban, because there
was a lot of material that came through and went to the =<
Commis: erned the Cubans.

7

Let's go off the record.
(Discussion off the record.)
Mr. Goldsmith. . Let's continue.
Mr. Rocca. My recollection is that at the time
the great press manifestation was that Cuban exiles who

were in touch with CIA had been somehow involved in this.
This was the great concern. |

Mr. Goldsmith. That's another: possibility.
There are different -- :

Mr. Rocca. - Questions went down to WH: do you
have anybody who could possibly have gotten involved in
this kind of thing.

exercised to try to clarify that side. ee

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you think that the possibility
of an assassination plot by Castro against the. President
was adequately investigated?

(Pause)

Mr. Rocca. With the advantages of 20-20 hind-
sight, I could say probably not. But at the time it seems
to me that they gave due attention to it -~. within tie” o
information that I had at my disposal.

on

**In tac, 10 abent 2 years, 8 months.in the. Soviet Union
October 9 dune 1962

Ghassification: 099920
ee Beare | Clossitied od by derivation,

MM ME MM Me Me a ae

g There was extraordinary diligence, I thought,



SECRET.

(This form is tebe used fer material anvectes!
a—centralled eames

because. the people he was in touch with in

Mexico had: traces, prior traces, as KGB

people. They were under consular

cover and obviously could have been

doing and were undoubtedly doing a

consular job'in those earlier contacts.

(Ibid., p.. 33)

However, Rocca did indicate that Cuban aspects
of the CIA investigation were not ignored “because
there was a lot of material that came through and
went to the Commission that concerned the Cubans."
(Ibid., p. 44)

Mrs Helms also testified that the possibility
of Cuban involvement-in President Kennedy's

assassination was a source of deep concern within the

Agency. (Exec. Session Testimony of R. Helms, 8/9/78, p. 21)

Nevertheless, Mr. Helms stated that development of informa-

tion pertaining to Cuban knowledge of or ParticipatidA&. «
in the assassination was very difficult to-obtain.

(Ibid., p. 138)

VE.

Angleton was in agreement with Rocca's analysis

that during the second phase of the Agency's support

WG,

role to the Warren Commission the CIA concentrated its

resources ongieauqneaaianssibte Soviet influence :on: 0 0 06 21

200 SECRET | gti y serie ———
LP LF Ya 2 Dw a a a x

=



‘lesifiction: SECRET.

{ins farm ie to Be, wzad for material ext!
ma ClA—centrelled decuments.)

Oswald. (Angleton, p. 86). He stated for the record
‘with regard tothe Warren Commission's investigation

(with the CIA's support) of possible Cuban involvement

in the assassination:
I personally believe that the United
States intelligence services did not

have the capabilities to ever come to

an adjudication (of the Cuban aspect) .

I don't think the capabilities were there.
(HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton,
10/5/78, p. 93)

a
°

Glassificasi SECRET 000622.

§
§
f

60549 | Glzalisd by en,
ma 4 LD LD ME ME Ms is a

,
5
é
7
g
p
p
6
p
p
4
:



$
i
$
~
3
6
$
p
p
6
$

Classification: —

ff form is 18 be used for materia! axteacter
em ClA—eentreted decumants)

As noted above, the CI Staff assumed responsibility
in late December 1963 - early January 1964 for the
coordination of CIA efforts to assist the Warren
Commission in its investigation. At that time, Raymond
Rocca, Chief of Research and Analysis for CI Staff,
was designated point of contact with the Warren
Commission. (HSCA Classified Deposition of James
Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 77.) Rocca's Research and 5 he! -

. ko
Analysis. component was concerned with: wed (is

"analytical intelligence,a yeical a i

brainpower, which meant(all source) all

overt source comprehension; a study of

cases that had*ceased to occupy opera-

tional significance, that is, closed. cases;

to maintain the ongoing record of overall

quality and quantity of counterintelligence

being performed by the entire DDP operation: Zo
component;... the Deputy Director for Plage)

(HSCA Classified Deposition of R. Rocca,

8/17/78; See also HSCA Classified Deposition

of James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 77.)

Mr. Rocca testified that assassination-related

e
re

information generated by CIA components was directed
to his staff (as designated point of contact with the

Warren Commission) in the normal flow of day to day

i 00023
Glessifiection: 225220
| Say ete; ———

ME ME MM a a


a/v . a a a a a

Cleasification: SECRET
i Em is 18 2, materi exacted
oe sala" acini Be

i
{
i

work (Ibid., pp. 16-17.) This informa

reviewed by Rocca. or hi

research and search man for the U.S. Intelligence

Community and its. resources), and“Arthur Boole} (who

had transferred to the CIA from the FBI a number of

years prior to the assassination) (Ibid. p. 17.)
During the course of the Warren Commission investi-
gation,Hall, Hartman and Dooley worked with those
CIA divisions producing substantive information

related to the assassination. (Ibid.)

Mr. Rocca testified that even though

CI/R&A was the Agency's point of reference with regard
to the Warren Commission, neither his staff nor the
CI staff in general displaced the direct relations of

Mr. Helms’ or any other concerned Agency official with

°

the Warren Commission. (Ibid.; Rocca testified that sgeither
CI Staff nor his staff displaced the CIA's Soviet

Division (represented by David Murphy, Chief of the

000624

Gisssitiication: SECRET _
200625 | aie by dren

mm A a a a a a aa

“VG Wi) WU GR GR GT TR RR UT VC CA TR



3
,

,
i

p
p
p
6
p
p
6

' * Although James Angleton functioned as -Rocca's direct

Classification: —_-- a4
(This form is 19 be used far material eateested
(Rs fem sto dacuments;)

SR division and his assistan

its contact with the Commission; nor did CI/R&A
displace John Scelso in his contact with the Warren
Commission.) Rocca testified that in some instances
J. Lee Rankin of the Warren Commission would go directly
to, Helms with requests,.and in other instances David
Slawson, a Commission Staff counsel, conferred directly
with Tom Hall of Rocca's staff. (Ibid. Pp. 36.)*

The record reveals that on certain issues of
particular.sensitivity Rocca was not permitted to act
as the Agency's point of contact with the Warren Commission.
He testified ‘that "compartmentalization was observed
notwithstanding the fact that I was the working level

point-of contact." (sca Classified Deposition of Raymond

superior during the course of the Warren Commission
investigation, he did not participate.on a regular
basis in the Agency's efforts to supply substantive
information to the Warren Commission nor did he dea 4
on a direct basis with Warren Commission representa-
tives. (excepting Allen Dulles on an unofficial ‘basis;
HSCA Classified Deposition of Raymond Rocca, 8/17/78,~
Pp. 17-18; HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton,
10/5/78, p. 78.) However, Angleton testified to this
Committee that he did attempt to keep apprised of
developments as the investigation progressed through
consultation with Rocca. (HSCA Classified Deposition of
James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 81)

SECRET,
~ Glessification:

VD. WAS SHER. WD. GER. GD. GR. SHR SER wm wa.

tw
ig
VERS.

200625 a


= 14 -

Elassificatio = secren

This form is 1 be used far material exteasted
mn ClA—contrahed documents)

Rocca, 8/17/78, p.-18)'* Rocca cited by way of example es
the case of the Soviet defector Nosenko. Rocca oe
testified that he did not attend _ of the Agency -
discussions: pertaining-to Nosenka's case (Ibid.)

Rather, (as it affected the Warren Commission investi-

Ware

gation) re (oh

‘sponsibility for the Nosenko case
assigned t¢ David Murphy. hief of SR Division, in :

addition to Richard Heims.CEbiA)

Rocca described the CI staff mail intercept program,
HILINGUAL, as a second example of an Agency matter

about which he ‘had no knowledge nor: input vis a. vis

the Agency's ‘support role to the Warren Commission,’

. _(Tbid., pp. 19-20.) Rather, wWatiés Angleton ong/Siren
oes Ranarea the disposition of this particular

material (HSCA Classified Deposition of J. Scelso,

5/16/78, p. 113, wherein Scelso states that CI Staff

including O'Neal, was: repository of HTLINGUAL intercedts?
leuk See WSCA Class Dep. c€ Birch O'ndad (7{20( 78 Heenan
whertin Olneal stes that he didnot oe

Barren Comm i 38 jon Hak Know ledss of the HTL IMEI AL
Presramn bRcans® H das not Ces persis bil t te prods
Tal Warten Commission with mokerills Aaciah Cron

he HTAINGUAR Program

f
4
4
J
4
4
j
f
4
‘
i

SECRET
Glassificatign; ————____ 009626 — |
20g a

LT IT 6 i 48 i fl i a .



= a a :

Classification: —__sscpet

{fit form is te be ysed for mateiia! cetteaster
am GlA—esnirated documents)

In summary;:it* was’ Rocca's testimony that an-internally
decentralized information reporting function best
characterized the organization of this second phase
of the Agency's investigative efforts to assist ,
the Warren Commission. (Ibid., p. 10; HSCA Classified
Deposition of James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 75, 80. ;
See aig CIA Doc..:Rocca Memo for Record, 1 April 1975,

a . Subject: Conversation with David W. Belin, April 1,
a" Cie tec it-is stated that Helms remained senior
official in charge’ of: the overall investigation,
with cr staff acting as a coordinator and repository

of information collected.) ~

g

Glessification:
2000829 |. Cais eae, ———

I a A A a a a a a.

WRG.


Pa a a aw a a a

|

,
gy
§
y
y
$
y
6
g
4

Classification: secant
ie GS £8 ae fer ae oxtasisd

-9--
A, Opinions.of Warren Commission and CIA Representatives

Regarding Warren, Commission-CIA Relationship

The Committee has contacted both representatives of
the Warren Commission staff and those representatives of
the CIA who played significant roles in providing CIA-
generated information to the Warren Commission. The
general cansensus of these representatives is that the
Warren Commission and the CIA enjoyed a successful
working relationship during the course’of the Commission's
investigation.  ~(HSCA Class. Depo. of R. Rocca 7/17/78,
p.-18) (See also Exec. Sess. Test..of Richard Helms,
8/9/78,.p. 24.) William Coleman, a senior staff counsel
for the Warren Commission who worked closely with Warren
Commission staff. counsel W. David Slawson on matters
which utilized the CIA's resources, characterized

the CIA representatives with whom he dealt as

«

highly competent, cooperative, and. intelligent. @ 6»
(See HSCA staff interview of William Coleman,
8/2/78.) Mx. Slawson expressed a similar opinion

regarding the Agency's cooperation and quality

900623

Glesaitication:-

p
p
y
6
§
§
f
:
}
}
!
i

| Gauifisd by derivation, —C-Berk



This. form. is be used for material extr
tai i EPA _isto he id USA rk heMaterial : extracte
it:

from.ClA—controlled documents.)
-10-

of work. | (Executive Session Testimony of W.

“David’ Slawson, 11/15/77,-p. 17;,see also. JFK

Exhibit 23.)

J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel for the
Warren Commission, testified that the Warren
Commission and its staff were assured by the CIA
that the Agency would cooperate ‘in. the Commission's
work. (HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin,

8/7/78, p.4; HSCA Class. Depo. of John McCone,
8/17/78, p. 9)

John McCone, Director of Central Intelligence
at the time of President Kennedy's assassination
and during the Warren Commission.investigation,
supported Mr. Rankin's testimony in this regard
by characterizing the CIA's work vis-a-vis
the Warren Commission as both responsive and
comprehensive. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John it
McCone, 8/17/78, p. 5) Mr. McCone was responsible

for ensuring that all relevant matters were

Clessitiionfion: Secret

09 9628

|e by 3 _&- Berk Berk

Oe ee we a a ae a



(This form is to be used for material extracted

Aur Cds ntPoilees act al ieuaaia

from ClA—controlled documents.
-10a-

conveyed by the CIA to the Warren Commission.
““(Ibid., pp. 5-6) In this regard, Mr. McCone
testified that:

The policy of the CIA was to give the Warren
Commission everything that-we had. I
personally asked Chief Justice Warren to

come to my office and took him down to the
vault of our building where our. information is
microfilmed and stored and showed him the
procedures that we were following and the

§
j
}
§
j

extent to which we were giving him -- giving
his staff everything that we had, and I think
he was quite satisfied. (Ibid., p. 9)
Howevey, as ill subs 7 isncussed, +neCIA policy cOznot te
Jie the, Sam inch nian ered tmindit hd ack tite, Briere Phe oSacFentgmmmnisiing
marth all macrabt! U3 tan" commesion Belié’ That All Relevance’ = ">

Materials Be Made Promptly Available. By j

CIA To Warren Commission

i Mr. Raymond Rocca, - tho 92°Kiayicr i mpicmenter of CIA §
Plisy DAT eu eteet te 7 ‘ A A é
ag the Warren Commission investigation,

characterized the Agency's role as one of * j
e ’
full support to the Warren Commission. Mr.

Rocca, who served as the Chief of the Research and

039630

Clbesitlinetfism: secret
2RC05L9 || Clessfied by derivation: Co Berk

5
j
a,



a

(This form is to be used for material extracted
{rcris Chkm—ionteolted decinkentaaterial extracted
from:ClA—controlled documents.)

-10b-

i
4

--Analysis Divison for the Counter-Intelligence

Staff of the CIA, stated under oath that
Richard Helms had given the following

directive:

All material bearing in any ‘way that
could be of assistance to the -

ai Warren Commission should be seen by C.
staff and R and A and marked for us. “He

or? i ued. , very strictly worded
Ly ionS --. they were verbal in so
fe far as know -- that we were to leave no

w stone unturned.
(HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca,
7/17/78, p. 24)

é
e

j
j
j
f
j
$
j
j
j
j
i
j

ace Sc i
\ chased iy driven C2 BEEK



Classification:

Mr. Rocapisagdeds thats, uk@ RisndaRWleddaed Mr. Helms’

; ch trolled d ts.
orders were cof Pa eoeale fetter by all CIA employees.

(Ibid. p. 24.) -Mr. Rocca concluded that on this basis:
"the CIA was to turn over. and. to develop ‘any information
bearing on the assassination that could be of assistance
to the Warren Commission." (Ibid., p. 26.)

A different view of the CIA's role regarding the
supply of CIA's information to the Warren Commission was

propounded by Richard Helms. Mr. Helms, who served as

the CIA's Deputy Director for.Plans during the Warren

Commission investigation, was directly responsible for the

CIA's investigation of President Kennedy's assassination AnATNe
+ aS fatslghntal of CIA policy visa eis tha Warren Commission.

(Ibid., p. 23.) He testified to the Committee that the

CIA made every effort to be as responsive as possible to

Warren Conmission requests. (Exec. Sess. Text. of Richard
Helms; 8/9/78, p.- 10.) Mr. Helms added further testimony
regarding the manner in which the CIA provided its infor-
mation to the Warren Commission. He stated:

An inquiry would come over (from the Warren Com-
mission). We would attempt to respond to it.

But these inquiries came in individual bits and@® 6
pieces or as individual items...Each: individual

item that came along we took.care of as best we
could. (Ibid., pp. 10-11.)

Vh “A GA VA YW. HR CA SR CJR

However, it was Mr. Helms' recollection that the CIA

provided information to the Warren Commission primarily

J
ri

SECRET

rit
Fe

Va GR.

Classification: ‘pDoG32

> a we NS

| Classified by derivation: __=

NS A a Ls 49 a ae a ae



Classification: secret
on the basis off Mente rechuta dies utd ofoE weal oxtedltibsts. Under

from ClA—controlled documents.
oath he. supported this foe ei

Mr. Goldsmith: In summary, is it your’ position that ..
the Agency gave the Warren Commission *",
information only in response to speci-
fic requests by the Warren Commission?

Mr. Helms: “That is correct. a

I want to _ modify that by saying that
memory is_£élldble> There may have been
times or circumstances under which some-
thing different might have occured, but
my recollection is that we were attempting
to. be-responsive and supportive to the
FBI and.the Warren Commission... When
they asked for something we gave it to
- them.

As far as our volunteering information
is concerned, I have no recollection. of
whether we volunteered it or not.

(Ibid., p. 34.)

Mr. Helms characterization of fulfilling Warren

Commission requests ona casthbasis rather than uniformly
‘volunteering relevant information to the Warren Commission
stands in direct opposition to J. Lee Rankin's perception
of the CIA's investigative responsibility. . Mr. Rankin was

asked by Committee Counsel whether he.worked under the

°
impression that the Agency's responsibility was simply to

respond to questions that were addressed to CIA by the
Warren Commission. In response, Mr. Rankin testified as
follows:

Not at all and if anybody had told me that I

would, have insisted that the Commission com-
municate with the President and get a different

arrangerqak HeeaHOn: might not ask the. right

SECRET | “A033

Classified by deri

\

Ns
Ne
i:
ui
\
Ni



27 av av: if avy
Ssit ication: Secret
lassitication: i

(This form isto be used for material extracted
fois Ceca dentrohed wscdnfenresterial, extracted
from ClA—controlled documents. :

-13-

questions and then we would not have the
information and that would be absurd.
(HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin,
8/17/78, p. 4)

er. Slawson added support to Rankin's position

testifying that Warren Commission requests to the CIA

that they. give us all information pertinent to the
assassination investigation." (Exec. Sess. Test. of.
W. David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 29)

CG anti~

CIA's “Failure to Pirse

were ‘rarely specific.. “The request was made initially f

Creo. BSS ssi atin 5 Pissns Fe Darren

Ae unfortunate consequence’ of Warten Comrni seis vel lance on j

FThKECIR +0 preude tra - Commi salon eth Bi reic rant .
CIA material Potre tie ce kh jin :

the subsequent exposure of the CIA's anti-Castro j
assassination plots /(SSC Book V) see also (Alleged
Assassination Plots: Involving Foreign Leaders, , Interim j
|Report, SSC, 11/20/75)7. Paradoxically, even af Be .
Warren Commission had requested information on such j

plots, the CIA's point of contact with the Warren

Commission would not have been able to provide the j

: Chbessiffixttiom: Secret 000034—

|| Clomsified by derivation: —C: Berk


Classification: Secret
lassitication:

(This form is to be used for. material extracted
oN Coam-ioriroled Useldientmpterial extracted

from ClA—controlled ibe
~13a-

_ Commission with information so requested. ‘As
Mr. Rocca's testimony reveals, he had no
knowledge at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation of Agency efforts to assassinate
Fidel Castro. (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond
Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 50)

re
a
a
2
Ss
3k
Se ee ee ee ee ee a a Cah a

6
.

cae 909855
| © Classified by 3 ettwodice: C. Berk

MaMa aaaiaema.

ec. 0522


(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
Had Rocca,as the CIA's working level representative

- to the Warren Commission,been requested by the

Commission to research and report on any. and all

c)

CIA anti-Castro assassination operations, Rocca's

efforts would have produced no substantive informa-

hy pe

tion. (Ibid.; p. 49)™

officer who was initially: given the responsibility
by Mr. Helm$ to investigate | . ‘Tee Harvey
Oswald, and the assassination of President Kennedy
had.no knowledge of such plots during his. investi-
gation. (HSCA Class.’ Depo. of John Scelso,: 5/16/78,
pp. 73, ti1-112) Mr. Scelso testified that ‘had he

The record also ~-/;ai:. that the CIA desk : §

7
known. of such assassination plots the following ip

action would have been taken: fe ape g

We would have apes he paen 4
about: it & : ee
had him¢Bolygraphed by e best Goeecive V (
eeurity he-nad—(aic) been 4g ip vy
eerie double-agent, informing Castro about ot% ad

vs _
ts

our poison pen things, and.so-on. é A

would have had all our Cuban sourc a a

ueried about it." (Ibid: 7 166) “999003
a re ey” 08903

As the record reflects, these. plots were known

Q

FH Bocca tent eA We wad notin apesit nn to answer questions reluked to Cita:
mcACe Caster Bus Tod Frese hautite be ane WEA RG DTS wo were nthe Chane
[Bermach ak ane Losaed Rand | Kad cd pin inertncteand Baits a)

by few within the CIA. Mr. Helms! testimony regarding §

nubie ptots ag

rome

; ; Classification: 9 £ += ! ;
*See ities, HSCA Classified Deposition ‘OF, “sanes an eton, 10/5778,

pp.29~3%wherein Angleton statesfhat Acdid nsf} foro:
to a5susy WE iden Castres vat af Rorhe mee wets wateA OK

NS a a at



these plots reveals that the Ag

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

yts Pirectoc
-its promise to supply all relevant information to i

vey ; = (eee, statimentet Sonn Mutong, p 104 herein )
the Warren Commission. The following exchange Peas

between Committee Counsel and Mr. Helms illustrates

the fextent

Mr.

Goldsmith:

Mr.

Helms:

Mr

Mr.

Goldsmith:

Helms:

Mr.

Goldsmith:

o£ the Agency's compromise:

Mr. Helms, I take it from your
testimony that your position is
that the anti-Castro plots, in
fact, were relevant to the
Warren Commission's work; and,
in light of that, the Committee
would like ta be informed as to
why the Warren Commission was
not told by you of the anti-
Castro assassination. plots.

I have never been asked to testify
before the Warren’ Commission about
our operations.

Tf the Warren Commission did-not
know of the operation, it certainly
was. not in a position to ask you

about it.

Is that not true?

Yés, but how do you know they did

not know about it? How do you

know Mr. Dulles had not told them?
How was I to. know that? And besites,,
I was not the Director of the Agency
and in the CIA, you did not .go
traipsing around to the Warren Com-
mission or to Congressional Committees
or to anyplace else without the
Director's permission.

Did_you ever: discuss with the Director
whether the Warren Commission

should be informed of the anti-Castro
assassination plots?

Ciassification: se CR ET
_ |. Classified by derivation: 2:90:63 7

fency compromised Ahe policy ot-

Sf
J
f
é;
4
$

'

5
A



(This form is. to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Mr. Helms: I_did not, as far as I recall.
(HSCA Exec. Sess. Test. of ‘Richard
7 Helms,, 8/9/78, pp. 30-31.4, emphasis
added ) :
Mr. McCone testifed that he first became. aware
of the CIA's anti-Castro assassination plots

involving CIA-Mafia ties during August 1963. He
stated that upon learning of these plots he directed
that the. Agency cease all-such activities. (HSCA
Class. Depe..of John McCone, 8/17/78, ‘p. 13)

“When asked whether the CIA desired to withold informa-
tion from the Warren Commission about the Agency anti-
Castro assassination plots to avoid embarrassing the :
Agency or causing an. international:crises he gave
the following response:

"I cannot answer that since they (CIA
employees knowledgeable of the
continuance of such plots) withheld
the information from me. I cannot

answer that question. I have never
been satisfied as to why they with-

held the information from me. (Ibid.,
(ys p: 16)
\ Regarding the relevancy of such plots to ci Ad ig

Af Warren Commission's work, Warren Commission counsels
\ :
yw Rokin, Slawson and Spector were in agreement that

Y ¥ such information should have been reported to the

Vn <P. YR GA GA VA CA CE URDU EER. UMA! UU,

| -. Classified by och G,85 38 :



MMMM

Classification:

(This form i: dager, ial eXtifict} ia, Spe /TBy &
rs om ett Pet ett],
Warren Commission. (Exec. ppg Test. of W. sas

David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 27; Exec. Sess. Test.
of Arlen Spector 11/8/77, pp. 45-46; CF, Exec.

Sess. Test. of Wesley Liebeler, 11/15/77, p. 71

where he states that possible witholding of
information by CIA about Agency attempts to
assassinate Castro did not significantly affect:
Warren Commission-investigation)

From the CIA's perspective,Mr. Rocca
testified that had he known of. the anti-Castro
assassination plots his efforts to explore the
-possibility of.a retaliatory assassination against
President Kennedy by Castro would have been. intensi-
fied.. He stated that: " _acompletely different
“ procedural approach probably would and should have
been taken." (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca
7/17/78, p. 45)

John Scelso, ‘the above-cited CIA desk officer

.

who ran the CIA's initial investigation of Presidett
Kennedy's assassination until that responsibility
was given to the CIA's counterintelligence staff,
offered a highly critical appraisal of Helms'

non-disclosure to the Warren Commission:

Classification: 2SECREL

|. - Classified by derivation FF

E :

E
wo



y 4 "a lea MD La:
SECRET

Classification: :

(This form is to be used for, material. extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Mr. Goldsmith: Do you. think Mr. Helms was
acting properly when:he failed
to. tell the Warren Commission
about the assassination plots?

- Mr. Scelso: No, I think ‘that was a morally:
ae highly reprehensible act, ‘which .
he. cannot ‘possibly justify under
his oath of office, or any
n other standard of professional
vA public service. (HSCA Class.
oA -Depo. of John Scelso; 5/16/78)

oe ee
@? ay ane x ency Concern for the Sanctit

of Sensitive Sources and Methods. ~ Factors Affecting

CIA Resporise to Warren Commission Requests

The length of time required by the CIA to

respond to the Warren Commission's requests for

ka information was dependent upon 1) the availability
f of information; 4 2) the complexity of the issues
‘\ 4 presented by the request and 3) the extent to which
nN 4, the relevant information touched upon sensitive CIA
sources’ and methods. On the first two points, Mr.
i jo testified that when CIA had been able to

Sa satisfy a Commission request, the CIA would then send
a reply back:

"and some of these inquiries obviously

took longer than others.
For example, some might involve

: SECREL
Classification:

099640

| Classified by derivation:

«

Y
6
F
f
;
f
}
;
5
;
j


Classification: - SECREL

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

checking a file which was in Washington.
Other inquiries might involve trying to
. See if. we could locate somebody .in some
overseas country.
Obviously, . one takes longer to per-
form than the other. (Exec. Sess.- Test.
oe of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 25)

At times the CIA's concern for protecting its

Commission to experience greater difficulty in

getting relevant information than when the protec-

tion of such sources and methods was not at issue.

J. Lee Rankin. expressed the opinion that the Agency's

effort to protect it: sensitive sources and methods ;par ticalac|

waitin re sard Fo CiAsackillance SPREE om 14 Metco City,
7-4 @ffectathe’ quality of the information to which

sensitive sources and methods. caused the Warren S
the Warren Commission and its ‘staff were given

cess. (HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin 8/17/78,

452) As a result of tha CIA's concern,in some instances
the Agency made the anilaterial decision to
limit access to CIA materials by the Commission.

i i wera ne, UG lO oe
The Committee has identified two‘areas of
concern in which the Agency's desire to protect its

sensitive sources and methods impeded the Warren

Commission's investigation. These are:

Classification:

(HSCA Class. Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78, p: 158) §

Je

| Classified by derivation:

TTI aTIewwsewsi sea.



ae a
Classification: ___ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material. extracted

‘rom ClA—controlled documents.)
ie o 1)/Witholding information from the Warren
Commission ~ pertaining to the-phote-
suevetiiance [amd telephonic surveillance ]

ey operations of the CIA's Mexico City Station

‘AS a related consideration, the Agency's

reticence. to ‘reveal the origin of the photograph
now referred to as that of the "Mexico

City Mystery Man") de develo pea lagrhadas Mexicacety photo -

sacyetlant acest
GtA'S Snitick Concern He Revealing

Sensitive Seac iy AK Methods
The CIA's concern for revealing the existence
of sensitive technical operations, as outlined above,
was evident from the inception of the Warren Commission.
Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized
at. first to reveal all our technical operations."
(Ibid., p. 158) .But.Scelso did testify that:

We were going to give them intelligence

reports which derived from all our sources,
~ including technical sources, including the

telephone intercept Jand the information )
gotten from the intérrogation of Silvia

. Duran, for example, which corresponded

\ almost exactly with the information from

\ the]telephone intercepts. [

Mr. Scelsco's characterization is supported by

000022

Classified by derivation:

Te DD WD a ew a4

a. VU VA OG

a a a oe

26

ri


(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
Lee Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (CIA
DOC. FOIA #509-803, 1/31/64,. Memorandum for J.
Lee Rankin from Richard Helms) Much.of the
information provided to the Warren Commission
in this-report was based upon sensitive sources
and methods, identification of which had been
deleted completely from the report.
The CIA policy limiting Warren Commission
knowledge of CIA sources and methods was. articu-
lated as early as December 20, 1963, at which
time a cable was sent from CIA headquarters to

the Mexico City Station which stated:

Our present plan in passing ‘ormation,
to the Warren C to. eliminate
mention of, Jin order to \
- protect your continuing ops. Will rely

instead on statements of Silvia Duran

and on contents of Sev

which Soviets gavé[oacrD} A Doc. FOIA.

#420-757, 12/20/6 DB 466) ~

The basic policy articulated in the December
20, 1963 cableAis.also set forth; in a CIA memorandgm “e

“of December 10, 196X as it specifically concerned.

‘the CIA's relations with the. FBI (CIA Memorandum

x

5
Z Se i :

for File, 12/20/63, Birch O'Neal, includéd in with Soft
file materials) In that memorandum, Birch O'Neal
of the CIA Counterintelligence/Special Investigations
croup $6a96f wcat that he had. been advised by Sam
assification: _. 3p
oewene

{| - Classified by derivation: 00 00004 6 43 7


Classification:

(This form : i8 to-be used for material extracted
Papich, -FB&omiGiAsennitdleddecu#Eatj.) that the FBI was

anticipating a request from’ the Warren Commission
for copies of the FBI's materials which supported
or complimented the FBI's five volume report of
December 9, 1963 that had been: submitted to the

Warren Commission. Papich provided O'Neal with

this report which indicated that some| United

States Agency was apping telephone: fin Mexico —

and asked him whether the FBI could supply the

Warren Commission with the source [ot chectéTephone

tap. O'Neal's *temorandum shows that he discussed

latter with Scelso. After a discussion

elms, Scelso was directed by Helms to prepare

é
°

—0ngdd4
| Classified by derivation



Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not
the Agency's desiré to make available
to the Commission at. least in this
Manner--via the FBI~séensitive informa-
tion which could relate to[télephone
taps,) (CIA Memo for File, 12/20/63, by
Birch’ O'Neal, included in Soft File Materials) *

The opinion expressed by Scelso as of December
20, 1963 was set forth on January 14, 1964 ina
formalized ate oes ‘hen Helms expressed his

cpeoncern xegarding~exposure by the. FBI of Agency

sources to the Warren Commission... Helms. wrote

ne that. the CIA had become aware that the FBI had
already:

called to the attention of the
Commission, through its attorney,

that we have information [as deter-
mined from Agency sources} coinciding
with the date when Oswald was in Mexico
City and which may have some ‘bearing
on his activities while in that. area.
(CIA dissemination to FBI, 1/14/64,

CIA # CSCI-3/779/510.

“Mr. Helms further indicated that. the CIA might
be. called upon-to provide additional. information
acquired from checks of CIA records and agency
sources. He suggested that certain policies be
employed to enable CIA to work cooperatively
with the Commission in a manner. which would
protect CIA information,’ ‘sources and methods. %
Among the policies articulated were two. which
Helms claimed would enable the Agency to control
the flow of Agency originated information. In
this way the CIA could check the possibility of
revealing-its sources and methods inadvertantly.
The policies articulated were:

e .

Veo WA “. “ VR VA U.S. CT! UU, CUV-

bik
led

SECR

090525,
|. © Classified by derivation: :

x 4 £7 ee FT Te eT TF .

NOR.



(This form is to be used, for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
The CIA policy of eliminating reference to Agency

sensitive sources and methods is further revealed
by examination of an Agency cable, dated January 29,
1964, sent from CIA Headquarters to the CIA Mexico ial
City Station. (CIA Doc. FOIA #398=204, 1/29/64, :
DIR 97829) This cable indicated that knowledge of
Agency gources“and techniques was still. being with-
held’ from the Warren Commission, and stated that. on
Saturday, February'1, 1964, the CIA was to present
a report.on Oswald's Mexico City activities. to the
Warren Commission which ‘would be in a form

protective of the CIA's Mexico City Station's

sources and techniques. (Ibid.)

(Footnote cont'd from pg. 23.)

1): Your Bureau not disseminate information re-
ceived from this Agency without prior concur
rence RB 6

2) In instances in which this’ Agency has provided
information to your Bureau and you consider
that information is pertinent to the Commission's
interest, and/or compliments (sic) or otherwise
is pertinent to information developed or
received by your Bureau througn other sources
and is being provided by you to the Commission,
you refer the Commission to this Agency. In
Such cases it will be appreciated if you will
advise us of such referral in order that we may
anticimate.ahe possible . future interest of the
Conni oS ASHI ERS :
meeting its needs. (Ibid-)

‘Tlassified by derivation:

Ti jate cartain_pyeparatory “steps to

om,

sone,


Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

a [Zelephone Taps J
Mr. Helms offered testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to inform the Warren Commission, at least
during, the initial stage of the Commission's work,
of the cra's[ telephonic and [photo surveillance

_ Operations in Mexico city. :

The reason for the sensitivity of these
[telephone taps and]surveillance was not
only becyp@se it was sensitive from the
Agency's standpoint, but the [telephone
taps were [funning ii onjunction with
the Mexican authorities} and therefore,

if this had become public knowledge,

it would have caused[very bad feelings
between Mexico and the United States,

and that was the reason. (Exec, Sess.
fest. of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 51-52)

The CIA's unwillingness. to inform the Warren

Commission in the early stages of its investigation

of the above-described surveillance operaticns is

indicative of an, Agency policy designed

in its favor the form and substance of information
the CIA felt uncomfortable providing the Warren

Commission. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John Scelso,

5/6/78, p. 158) This process might well have

hampered the Commission's ability to proceed in

000%

Classified by derivation:

4

é

a-source Of concern to this Committee. It is 4, Ae

?

ane

5



its inves (ja g2 Bn SuiPee ats ct fe gpaees® ES. it.

AT ee,

As noted previously,: on a 31,-1964,

the CIA provided the Warren Commission with a ee :

memorandum that chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's 9° te

Mexico City visit during September 26, 1963 -
CA Doc. FOIA #509-803 1/31/64)
October 3, 19632. That memorandum did not mention

that Oswald's various conversations with the. Cuban

and Soviet icinanlabeaiaidaraetcee dl had ad been{ apped | and
a Mexico City Station :
subsequently jtranscribed? errenola that’ memo». :

randum did not mention that the CIA had[tapped

and franscribed conversations between Cuban Embassy

employee Sylvia‘ Duran and Soviet officials’ at the

Soviet Embassy/Consulate nor was mention made of

the conversations between Cuban President Dorticos .

and, Cuban Ambassador: to Mexico Armas which ‘the CIA

had)also tapped ané Jeranscribed.

On February 1, 1964, Helms appeared before the

Commission and likely discussed:the memorandum of

January 31, 1964. “(CIA Doc. FOIA #498-204, 1/29/64,

DIR 97829) On February 10, 1964, 3. Lee Rankin wrote

Helms in regard to the CIA memorandum of January 31.

(JFK Doc. No. 3872) A review of Rankin's letter

¥)

SECRET

vet

Classification:

| 00628

|. Classified by derivation:

. AM et tt a a a



Classification: _ SECRET

(This form is to.be used for material extracted -
from ClA—controlled documents.)

- indicates that as of his writing, the Warren

Commission .-had no substantive knowledge off the
- telephonic’ surveillance operation ‘or ‘the production
“ives e]the tapes and ‘transcripts Jécom that operation. J
Rankin inquired in the February 10, ‘1964 letter
whether Oswald's direct communication with employees
of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in Paragraph 1
of January. 31: memorandum) had been: facilitated by
telephone or interview. Manifestly, had ‘the Warren
Commission been informed of the[telephonic
surveillance operation and:its ‘Success in tapping 7]
Oswald this inquiry by Rankin would not have been
made. :
i : Raymond Rocea's testimony tends to support
this conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that
between the time period of January 1964 -- April 1964,
Warren Commission's representatives had visited the
CIA's headquarters in Langley, Virginia and had
been shown various transcripts. resulting fromf the
CIA's *telephanic surveillance operations Jin Mexico
City. (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond’ Rocca, 7/17/78,

Pp- 89) However, Mr. Rocca did not’ personally make

| © Classified by ert

Ye ee ee a a ae

ey. 4 “GR YG. “Gm,


Classification: —SECr=-

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

this material available to Commission representa-
tives and was not able to state under oath
precisely the point in time at which the Warren
Commission first learned of these operations. (Ibid.)
On February 19, 1964 the CIA responded. to
Rankin's inquiry of February 10. The Agency
response did indicate that Oswald had phoned the
Soviet Consulate and was'also interviewed at the
Consulate. However, the Agency neither revealed
the source of this information in its response to
the Commission nor indicated that this source
would be revealed by other means (e.g. by oral

briefing). (Ibid.)°

i

Warren Commission ‘Knowledge cf[CIA Teléphonic surveillance
During the period of March - April 1964,
David Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which

among other issues concerned Warren Commission know-

: °
ledge of and access to the production material

derived from tne [cra telephonic surveillance bperations
in Mexico City.. A review of these memoranda tends
to support the Committee's belief that the Warren

Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman, and

Ww
wa

~

her

Classification:

[2 Claseltied byl cerwation: clncaututet 0 00 65 0
ee ee a aa


“and wiefthafamibetbe aed Aeotater'tofes'fe1ephonic
1A—controlled documents.)

Fe hes aterials until April 9, 1964. On

that date, Coleman, Slawson and Willens met. with

Win Scott," the CIA's Chief of Station in Mexico

City, who provided: them with various transcripts

and. translations [derived from CIA telephone taps ]

of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy/Consulates. (Slawson

Memorandum of April 22, 1964, Subject: frip to

Mexico.City par)

Prior to April 9,it appears doubtful that

ba
gee
ae ee ee a a a a an an S

hess

the Commissi

en given even partial access ¢

Nevertheless, pg Maren")

12,1964, the record indicates that the Warren

aS

Commission had at least become aware that [tne CIA

@id maintain telephonic surveillance Jof the Cuban
Embassy/Consulate. _(Slawson memorandum, March 12,
1964, Subj: meeting with CIA representatives) .

Slawson's memorandum of March 12 reveals that. the Warren

Commission had learned that: the CIA possessed trans
°

scripts of conversations between the Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico, Armas, and the Cuban President Dorticos. . The

Dorticos-Armas conversations, requested by the Warren

SECRET

Classification:

Ay
ER. NH.

90005

|. Classified by derivation:

Oa a a aw a a LMT



'SECR ET -

Classification:

(This form. is. to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documepitsgManiht
Commission representatives at «necting ~ with
CIA officials, including Richard Helms, concerned .
Silvia Duran's arrest and interrogation by the
Mexican Federal Police. (Slawson Memorandum of
April 22, 1964, pp. 3, 19, 45-46) Helms responded
to the Commission's request for access, stating
that he would attempt to arrange for the Warren
Commission's representatives to review this material:
(Slawson Memorandum of March 12, -1964, p. 6)

Another Slawson memorandum, dated March 25,

1964 concerned Oswald's trip to Mexico. -In that memo
Slawson. wrote that the tentative conélusions
he had reachéd concerning Oswald's Mexico trip,
were derived from CIA memoranda of January 31, 1964
ané, February 19, 1964, (Slawson Memorandum of March
25, 1964, p. 20) and, in addition, a ‘Mexican federal
police summary of interrogatio
after the assassination with —

Slawson wrote:

A large part of it (the summary.report)

is simply a summation of what: the Mexican
police learned when they interrogated Mrs.
Silvia.Duran, an employee of the Cuban
Consulate in Mexico City, and. is there-
fore only as accurate as Mrs. Duran's
testimony to the police. (Ibid.)

iS, NRA “A “Ga “GA WA GR We



Mw MT LI LE LT Le: fe
Oo fo SEGRE Ty nf

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

These comments indicate that Slawson placed

qualified reliance upon the Mexican police summary.

Moreover, there is no indication that Slawson had

been provided the Duran{ telephonic intercept |tran-
scripts. In fact, by virtue of Slawson's comments
concerning the. Mexican police report, it would

appear that the Warren Commission, as of March 25,

had been provided-little substantive information

pertaining to. Silvia Duran. As Slawson reveals,
the Commission had been forced to rely upon the two

memoranda that did not make reference to the surveil-

the Mexican Federal Police. Thus, the Agency had

realidad
i. for over three months: k= -< exposing

_ 7 sas
the surveillance operations te the*review of the
——

concerned Warren Commission staff members. As was

stated in the CIA cable of December 20, 1964. to its

.

Mexico City Station: %®

°

Our present plan in passing information
to the Warren Commission is to eliminate
mention of[ telephone taps, Jin order to
protect your continuing operations. Will
rely instead on statements.of Silvia
Duran and on contents of Soviet consular
file which Soviets gave[ODACID )here.

(CIA Doc. FOIA #420-757, Dec. 20, 1964,
CIA p. 2144, DIR 90466)

SECRET
Classification:

GEE,

| Classified by deriva tt

p lance operations, and a summary, report issued by



(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
The Committee's belief that per pbsanni ty. had

(delephoaie wierce pt 5

not been given access to the Duban*transeripts is

further supported by. reference to his memorandum
of March 27, 1964 (CD 692) wherein he states his
conclusion that Oswald had visited the Cuban
Embassy on three occasions. (Ibid, p. 2) This
conelision He terete Wal based upon an: analysis of

Silvia. Duran's: testimony before the Mexican police:

This memorandum bears no indication that he had
reviewed any of the Duran transcripts: Furthermore,
had Slawson been given access to these transcripts,

certainly their. substance would have been incorporated

purpose. His analysis sheeted have reflected the fact
of his review either by its corroboration or
criticism of the above cited Mexican police summary. report.

Logically, access to the[CIa's telephonic

surveillance Joroduction would have clarified some, :
°
ambiguities. For example, on September 27, at 4:05 p.m.

(Slawson Memorandum of April 21, 1964, Subj [ Intercepts )

NRG,

rom Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico,

pe 2) pet Fat

fenke Eb sentence

Classification; ze euegass u

Classified by: derivation:

tn
ni
(a)
ras)
Bua
ei

3 into his analysis..and accordingly noted for this



Classification: __ SECRET
Silvia Duran, Yehenhqnes he SPwinkiPeassie and

stated thalt"E< Ansoatealed dowmente, ontiy at the

, .Cuban Embassy requesting an in-transit visit. to
Cuba. this American was later determined by CIA analysts’
‘tobe Oswald. Again on September 28, at 11:51 a.m.
Duran: telephoned the Soviet Consulate stating that
an American, subsequently identified by CIA analysts
as. Oswald jwas at the Cuban Embassy. « (Ibid. p. 4)

Cocreborating DBsUdaldat visits pette Caan Finbass
Had this’ information*been made available to Slawson,

| 3 :
his calculations of Oswald's activities in. Mexico

City would have been more firmly established than
retiectd |p, has. meme tarde
they were as*of March-27, 1964.

The} record supports the Committee's finding
that. as of| April 2, 1964 the Warren Commission had

still’ not been given access to the above-referenced -:- Cais

+

AitOHgn ww
series(of telephonic intercepts. }: memorandum of
that date by Coleman -and Slawson, _ | posed one

question to the CIA and made two. requestsfor information
from the Agency. (Slawson - Coleman Memorandum of

April 2, 1964, Subj: Questions Raised. by the ambas@adot
Mann File) | Coleman and Slawson wrote:

1) What is the information source referred

to in the November 28 telegram that

Classification: eee 009053

1 Classified by derivation:.

ri
Bug



Classification: __- SECRET,

.

(G8wdarm inteshacded.dorseetetial adwartetin
from ClA—controlled documents.)
Odessa;

2) We would like to see copies of: the

transcripts [oe the intercepts, ]translated
toe if possible, in'all cases where the
J intercepts freter to the assassination
or related subjects;
3) We would especially like to see the

[intezcert]in which the. allegation that

money was passed at the Cuban Embassy
is discussed (Ibid.)
The question initially posed by (Item I). in’
the above-referenced memorandum of April 2 concerns

4

6

6

6

4

4
| g the[cta telephonic intercept Jof September 27, 1963
g

p

g

g

p

S$
f
5
§
}
J
p

at. 10:37 a.m. (Slawson Memorandum of April 21,
1964, p- 1) Obviously, if Slawson found it necessary
to request. the source of the information, he had :
not as yet been provided access to the original

material by the CIA.

‘UR, YOM,

‘ : eer)
Item Number Two of the above listing tends to show

/

that the Commission had not been giving access to the [interce

NER.

concerning the assassination.

w
Pit
(ay
ra
vi
im

Classification:

;
000056 5

Classified by derivation:



;

Classification: _5 CRE ECREL

(This form. is to be: used for ‘material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Item number three of the above listing
reveals ‘that [the intercept of |the Dorticos-Armas
conversation of November 22, 1964, in which the.
passing of monies was discussed had not’ as of April
2 been provided to the Commission. The. Commission
had specifically requested the Dorticos-Armas
transcripts at @ . March 12, 1964 meeting between
Commission representatives and Agency representatives.
(Slawson memorandum, March 12, 1964, Subj: Conference
with CIA on March 12, 1964)

On April 3, 1964, Coleman and Slawson expressed

‘their concern for receiving complete access to all

materials relevant to Oswald's Mexico City trip:
The most. probable final result of the
Vanediee investigation of Oswala's activities
in Mexico is a conclusion that he went
there for the purpose of trying to reach
Cuba and that.no bribes, conspiracies,

)

etc. took place.

.--In order to make such a judgment (that
all reasonable lines of investigation that

might have uncovered other motivations or

SéCR2T

Classification: - 7" **" 00005 76

| ‘Classified by derivation:

Ow a a a a a a a

i



SECREL

Classification:

(This form is to. be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

possible conspiracies have been. followed

through with negative results), we mist

become familiar with the details of what

both the American and Mexican investi-
eee me American and Mexican investi-

gatory agencies there have done. This
means reading their reports, after trans-
lation, if necessary, and in some cases
talking with the investigators themselves.

(Slawson ‘and Coleman Memorandum, ‘April

13, 1964, Subj: Additional lines of

Investigation in Mexico Which May Prove

Worthwhile, p. 11.)

Manifestly, Coleman's and Slawson's desire.
for a thorough investigation had been aes aby
the CIA's concern lest its sources and methods,
however relevant to. the Commission's investigation,
be exposed. Considering the-gravity and signi-
ficance of the Warren Commission's investigation

a . the
Agency's witholding of material from the

Commission staff was clearly improper.

Classification:

i+ Classified by derivation:

4
3
p

panes
aaa

j
j
p
p
§
s

;

me


Classification: ___<

(This form is- to, be used for material extracted
from ClA—congrelled documents.)

On April 8, David. Slawson, Howard Willens,
and. William Coleman flew to Mexico City, Mexico
to meet with the representatives of the State
Department, FBI, CIA, and the Government of Mexico.
(Slawson Memorandum, April 22, 1964, Subj: Trip
to Mexico City, p..1) Prior to their departure,
they met with Thomas Mann, the U.S.. Ambassador to
Mexico. during Oswald's visit to Mexico City and at
the time of President Kennedy's assassination. (Ibid.)
Ambassador Mann told the Warren Commission representa~
tives that the. CIA's Mexico City Station was actively

engaged in photosurveillance operations against the

- Soviet and: Cuban Embassy/Consulates (Ibid., p. 3)

Upon the group's arrival in Mexico City, they
were met by U.S. Ambassador Freeman, Claire Boonstra
of the State ‘Department, Clarke Anderson of the FBI,
and Winston Scott of the CIA (Ibid. pp. 9-10)

That same day during a meeting between the es
Commission representatives and |Win Scott, Scott made
available to the group actual transcripts[of the. CIA's

telephonic surveillance operations Jaccompanied with

English translations of the transcripts. In addition,

Classification:

|. Classified by derivation:

990059

Ye SS YS WE “SR SR, “RR “GR GA “GR GR wa



Classification:

| c
4
|

he id tlerydott bet d terial
he provi at A eyEOUD et ‘eh seers ciel suiaeyraphs
for the time period covered by Oswald's visit
that had resulted from photosurveillance of the

Cuban and Soviet Embassy entrances. David Slawson

wrote:

",..Mr. Scott stated at the beginning

of his narrative that he intended to make
a complete disclosure of all facts,
including the sources of his information,
and that he understood that all three of
us had been cleared for TOP SECRET and
that.we would not disclose beyond the
confines of the Commission and its
immediate staff the information we obtain-
ed through him without first clearing it
with his superiors in Washington. We
agreed to this." (Ibid.)

Mr. Scott described to the Commission repre~

_ At feel
sentatives the CIA's course of action i:=

following the assassination, indicating that his

- staff immediately began to compile dossiers on
Oswald, Duran, and everyone else throughout Mexico
whom the CIA knew had had some contact with Oswald

(Ibid.) ~Scott:revealed that all known Cuban and Russian,

eS

intelligence agents Had “quickly | been put und@t ¢
surveillance following the assassination. Slawson
concluded -:

“Scott's narrative plus the material we
were shown disclosed immediately how
incorrect our previous information had
been in Oswald's contacts with the Soviet
and Mexican Embassies. Apparently the ©

Classification: Boo

Classified by mn 00060
De eo a a ae a a ' MF .


Classification:

ccconsenentlil

(This form is to be used for material extracted
distartionsomndedidsasons to which our
information had been subjected had
entered some place in Washington,
because the CIA information that we
were shown by Scott was unambiguous on
almost all the crucial points. ~ We ha
previously planned to. show Scott, Slawson's
reconstruction of Oswald's probable
activities at the embassies to get Scott's
opinion, but once we saw how badly distorted
our. information was we realized that this ,
would be useless. Therefore, instead, we *

.decided to take as close notes as possible
fromthe original source materials at some
later time during our visit." (Ibid, p. 24)

K A separate Slawson memorandum of April 21,.1964 records

the results of the notetaking from original source

"These notes dealt exclusively with the[ telephonic :
intercepts [pertaining to the Duran and Oswald conver-=

sations for the period Sept. 27 -.Oct. 1, 1963.

(Slawson ‘Memorandum, April 21, 1964 Subj :[tntercepts |]
from the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico city.-

It is evident from Slawson's record that baie
Agency's denial of original source materials, in this
case the[ telephonic surveillance intercepts, ]seriowely,
impaired the Commission's ability to draw accurately
reasoned conclusions regarding Oswald's sojourn in

Mexico City. It meant that as of April 10, 1964,

materials that he did following Scott's disclosures. i f

Classification: —. ~~ ~“S"4 000061

|, Classified: by derivation:


Se

=~
Se

ae

=

Classification:

(This .form is to be used for material extracted —
from ClA—controlled documents.)

nearing the halfway point of the Warren Commission
investigation, _the Commission was forced to.retrace
the factual path by which it had structured Oswald's
activities in Mexico City. It further révealed that
the Agency had provided ambiguous information to

the Commission when, in fact "on almost all the
crucial points" significantly more precise materials.
could have been made available for analysis by the
Commission. (Ibid.) Thus, the: Agency's early policy
of not providing. the Commission with vitally relevant
information derived from certain sensitive sources

and methods had seriously undermined the investigation
and. possibly foreclosed lines of investigation e.g.,
Cuban involvement, that might have. been more seriously
“considered had this material been ‘expeditiously
provided. ;

Mexics City Station Phe fosucveilance and YR

Mexico City Mystery Man
Boe
On November 23, 1963, FBI Special Agent Odum

f
p
j
p
p
p
5
5b
i

8

showed Marguerite Oswald a photograph of a man

bearing no physical resemblance to her son. (Warren

NGS.

SECRET.

Classification: : 8
! + Classified by derivatidl 0 P0052 052

fT LI LI LT I LI LF LI LF


MIT eT I I

Classification:

Commission hs Sarr ip toa be used for, eSeb gE api haa been

* from ClA—controtted document:
supplied to the FBI on November 22 by ‘the CIA's
Mexico City Station after agency, representatives
had’ searched ‘their files in an effort to locate
information .on oswald? (ara Doc. DDP4-1555, 3/25/64,

Warren Commission Doc. 67), sthis photograph, which was ‘one

in a series resulting from the CIA's photosurveillance
A operations against the Soviet and Cuban Embassy/Consulates,

(rior to the assassination, } had been linked. by
onesie paomsica

the Mexico City Station to Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)
Richard Helms, in-a sworn affidavit before the Warren
Commission, stated that. the photograph shown to
Marguerite Oswald had been taken on October 4, 1963
in Mexico City and mistakenly linked at that time. to

Oswald. (Warren Commission Affidavit of Richard Helms

8/7/64, Vol. XI, pp. 469-470)
On February 10, 1964, Marguerite Oswald testified
before the Warren Commission and recounted the cir-

cumstances under. which she was shown the photograph.

(Warren Commission Report Vol 3p153)Mrs. Oswald t@@titied
that, she believed this photograph to have been of Jack

Ruby. (Ibid.)

039063

Classification:

1%)
rit
o
a)
‘| omua
a
EER.

Classified by derivation: _



7 42 ~ “SECRET

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Thereafter, on February 12, 1964, J. Lee

Rankin wrote to Thomas Karramesines, Assistant DDP

requesting both the identity of the individual
depicted in the photograph and an explanation of
the circumstances by which this photograph was
obtained by the Central Intelligence Agency.
(Letter of J. Lee Rankin, Feb. 12, 1964, JFK Doc.

#3872) i

On that same day, in a separate letter,

Rankin. wrote to DCI McCone regarding materials

Commission.. Rankin requested copies of these

materials which included three CIA cables. The

cables concerned the photograph subsequently shown

by the FBI to Oswald's mother of the individual
originally identified by the Mexico City Station

as Lee Harvey Oswald. (Letter of J. Lee Rankin % 4

Feb. 12, 1964, JFK Doc. $3872)

“A among the materials disseminated by the CIA
to the Secret Service was a November 26 dissemination.

(CIA Doc DIR 85177, 11/26/64) That cable concerned

Classification:

that. the CIA had disseminated. since November 22, : §

00064

| Classified by derivations

s
6
a
pe
a
é
,
§
a
p
g
iN

MS TF I LF I LF LF


|
| , .
i * (This form is to be used for material extracted

the DorticagmAyn2s APOE usaheRRy 2nd disclosed the
existence of [cra telephonic surveillance operations |

in Mexico City at the time of the assassination

and Oswald's earlier visit. As a result the CIA was

reluctant to make'the material disseminated to

= VR VA

the Secret Service available to the Warren Commission

for in so doing the Agency would have necessarily exposed fits

|

telephonic surveillance operationsko the Commission. :

at John Scelso testified regarding the circumstances
surrounding the eventual explanation given to the
Commission’ .recounting the origion of the photograph in
question. Scelso stated:

“We did not initially disclose to the
Warren Commission all of our. technical
operations. In other words, we did not
initially disclose to them that we had
photosurveillance because the November

. photo we had’ (of MMM) was not of Oswald.
Therefore it did not mean anything, you
see?"

Mr. Goldsmith: ...So the Agency was’ making a unilateral
‘decision that this was not relevant to the Warren:
Commission.

.

5
}
f
;
;
;
,

Scelso: Right,.we were not authorized, at first, td

to reveal all our technical operations.
(HSCA Class. Depo. of John Scelso 5/16/78,
p- 150)
In summary the records shows that
By February 12, 1964 the Warren Commission had

inadvertantly requested access to[ telephonic Jsurveillance

ee Classification: ___-S

production, a cause for concern within the Porn

Ciassification: SECRET. Bat ‘
090085
| o! Classified by. derivation: i

p

4
6
4
§
§
$
4
g
g
4
j


2 Dm @ W@W Bw:

Classification: —sectes —__

(This form is to be used for material extracted
fois Conm—icriolted Weeirhentenpterial extracted

from ClA—controlled documents:)
-44-

due to the sensitivity of Agency sources and methods. ,
Similarly, the possible disclosure of the photosurveillance
” operations to the Warren Commission had also begun to cause
concern within the Agency.

On March 5, 1967, Raymond Rocca wrote in an
internal memorandum to Richard Helms that “we have

a problem here for your determination." Rocca

to Rankin's request of February 12 regarding the CIA
material forwarded to the Secret Service since

November: . 23, 1964. Rocca then stated:

“Unless you feel otherwise, Jim would
prefer to wait out the Commission on the
matter covered by paragraph 2 (of the
above-referenced February 12 letter to McCone
requesting access to CIA reports provided
the Secret Service after November 22, 1963,
4JFK Doc. 3982). If they come back on this
point he feels that. you, or someone from
here, should be prepared to go over to show. -
the Commission the material rather than Pass ty
to them in copy. Incidentally, none
of these items are of new substantive
interest. We have either passed the material
in substance to the Commission in response to
earlier levies or the items refer to aborted
leads, for example, the famous six photographs
which are not of Oswald...". (CIA Doc. FOIA
#579-250, 3/5/64; -see also HSCA Classified
Deposition of James Angleton, 10/5/78, pp.

j
j
j
j
p
j
f

°

Chaesification:—secia:t —((t:« 0008
|. Clasébied by detention: C- Berk

Mk MT MT a a a a

a outlined Angleton's desire not to respond directly



a a DT i

Classification: __secret
Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
{fits Cbkm—conteolied dmcinientsyjaterial extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-44a-

wherein he states that the only reason

for not providing the Warren Commission with
access to CIA surveillance materials

was due to the Agency's concern for
protection of its sources and methods).

6
7
Nee ‘édititn, | Weldin,

O20GS7

wm
mM
a)
3
Dal
4

Chessifization:

ano

Daa ae ae.


Classification:

(This form -is to be used for. material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
On March 12, 1964, representatives. of the
Warren Commission and the CIA confered regarding.

the February 12° request 'for the materials forwarded

to the Secret Service by the Agency. (Letter of :
J. Lee Rankin March 16, 1964, JFK Doc. # 3872, Slawson |
Memorandum, March 12,.1964)

The record indicates that the Commission at
the March 12 meeting pressed for access to the
Secret Service materials. Rankin wrote to Helms
on March 16. that it was his understanding that the

CIA would supply the Commission with a paraphrase of

each report or communication pertaining to the Secret
Service materials: "with all indications of your
confidential communications techniques and confidential
sources deleted. You will also afford members of
our. staff working in this area an opportunity to
review the actual file so that:they may give assurance
that the paraphrases arecomplete." (Letter of J. .Lee
Rankin, March 16, 1964, paragraph 2, JFK Doc. No. 3872)
Rankin further indicated that the same
procedure was to be followed regarding any material

in the possession of the CIA prior to November 22,

008053

Classified by derivation:

WE.

Se.

Classification:

i


: Classification: ____S = CREL

(This. form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
1963 which had not as yet been furnished because

it concerned sensitive sources and methods. (Ibid.,
par. 3) :
Helms responded to Rankin's March 16 letter
on March 24 (FOIA # 622-258) by two separate
communications. (CIA Doc. DDP4-1554, hereinafter. CDFé31,
3/24/64, CIA Doc., DDP4-1555, 3/24/64, CD 674 hereinafter)
CD 631. provided the Commission with a copy of the
October 10, 1943 CIA dissemination to FBI, State’ Dept., .
INS and Navy Dept. (and-to the Secret Service on
22 Nov.) regarding Lee Harvey Oswald and his presence -
at the Soviet Consulate in Mexico City. The. response
further revealed that.on October 23, 1964,.CIA had
the Navy a i
i requested two copies of the most recent photograph

of Oswald in order to check the identity of the person

believed to be Oswald in Mexico City. Furthermore,
the CIA stated, though it did not indicate when, that

it had determined that the photograph shown to Marguerite

Re,

B® 6 .
Oswald on November 22, 1963 did not refer to Lee
Harvey Oswald. The Agency explained that it had checked the €
Photograg
against the press photographs of Oswald generally
available on November 23, 1963, £

CD 674 reveals that on Nov. 22, 1963 immediately follovgr

Classification: ie

oaa0sa

Classified by derivation:



s
p
a
4
po:
s
4
4
b
p
g
ie

‘Classification: _sECRER c REL

is‘ form is to be used for material extracted

the assassins on ANRC PHeRuR SE 23,. 1963, three
cabled reports were received at. CIA headquarters
from the CIA Mexico City Station regarding -photographs
of an unidentified man who had visited the Cuban and
Soviet Embassies during October and November 1963.
Paraphrases of these cables, not revealing sensitive
sources and methods, were ‘attached to CD 674. The
Agency wrote that the subject: of the photo referenced
in these cables was not Oswald. It was further
stated that:
"In response to our meeting of 12 March and
your memo of 16 March, Stern and Willens
will review at Langley the original copies
of these 3 disseminations to the Secret
Service and the cables on which they were
based,.as well as the photos of the unidenti-

fied man." . (CIA Doc. DDP4-1555 Cn634,24
March 1964) :

-On March 26, William Coleman wrote in a memorandum

for the record:

"The CIA directed a memorandum to J. Lee Rankin
on March 24, 1964 (Commission Document No. 631)
in which it-set. forthithe dissemination of.

the information on Lee Harvey Oswald. I rewlizg

that this memorandum is only a partial answer
to our inquiry to the CIA dated March 16, 1964
and I hope that the complete answers will give’
us the additional information we requested.”
(Memorandum of William Coleman, March 24, 1964)

Coleman went. on to state:

"As you know, we are still trying to get an

explanation of the photograph which the FBI

showed Marguerite Ose eS soon after the
RET

Classification:

|. Classified by deor,0679 -—
LT a MI I I I LI LI FF

a


a ee:

Classification:

(This form is-to be-used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) :

assassination. I hope that paragraph 4

of the memorandum of March 24, 1964

(CD 631) sent Mr. Rankin by the CIA

is not the answer which the CIA intends

to give us as to this inquiry." (Ibid.)

The following day, as agreed by Warren Commission
and Agency representatives, Samuel Stern of the
Commission visited CIA headquarters in Langley,
Virginia.

Sterns' memorandum of his visit reveals that

he reviewed Oswald's’ file with Raymond Rocca. Stern
indicated that Oswald's file contained those materials
furnished previously to the Warren Commission by

the CIA. The file also contained:

"Cable reports of November 22 and November

23 from the CIA's Mexico City Station
relating to the photograph of the unidenti-
fied individual mistakenly believed to be

Lee Harvey Oswald and the reports on those

Gables furnished on November 23, 1963 to

the Secret Service by the CIA." * (Memoranduin
of Samuel Stern, March 27, 1964)

Stern noted that these messages were accurately

paraphrased in the attachments to CD 674 provided the

A Paragraph dof cd O31 s feed tak CIA cncludect Whe
hote graj7h o& Un dentifred ¢ Raividual Aid rot hep ict

of 7 hei of 0
Searth Ctheandee Poor SS

J

Ss E a Rn é T | Classified by derive I O074

i we 2 wa wa a ae

Si. “WAH.



Classification: cri Wy

" (This form is to be used for material extracted
Warren ComfessGlén-watrelledcacuments}964. He also

reviewed the October 10, 1963 cable from CIA's

Mexico City Station;to .. CIA headquarters

reporting Oswald's ‘contact with the Soviet Embassy

in Mexico City. In addition, Stern examined the

October 10, 1963 cable from CIA headquarters to

the Mexico. City Station reporting background infor-
mation on Oswald." (Ibid.) Stern recorded

that - these messages were

paraphrased accurately as set forth in the CIA's January

31 memo to the Warren Commission reporting Oswald's

Mexico City trip.
Lastly, Stern noted that Rocca provided him

for .his review a computer printout of the references

to Oswald-related documents located in the Agency's
electronic data storage system. He stated "there is
no item listed on the printout which the Warren Com-.
mission has not- been given either in full text or
paraphrased." (Ibid..) 6

Thus, by the 27th of March, a Warren Commission

representative had been apprised of the circumstances
a

photograph.

iN
surrounding tHe mysterious

ia

yh”. > Classification: . SECRET.

'
5

909072

| Classified by derivation: __-

1 a aw We ew a 4



& : ene Mra

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Ss
J). iisa calderon

Approximately five hours after President :

Kennedy's assassination a Cuban government employee
in Mexico City named "Luisa" received a telephone
call from an unidentified man speaking Spanish.

(CIA Doc. FO MEXI 7105, 11/27/63, 173-615,attachment)

(this call had been intercepted. and recorded by the

CIA's Mexico City’Station as the result of its
LIENVOY (tel. tap) operation. J(Ibid.)” The Mexico
City Station,as subsequently reported to CIA
headquarters, identified the Luisa of the conversa-

tion as Luisa Calderon, who was then employed in

the Commercial Attache's office at the Cuban Consu-

late. (Ibid.)
“During the course of thé conversation, the
unidentified caller asked Luisa if she had heard

(of the assassination)
the latest news. . Luisa replied in a joking tone:

“Yes, of course, I knew almost before Kennedy."

(Ibid. )
CIA's
Paraphrasing the] telephone intercept Jeranscrivt,

Se.

it states that the caller told Luisa the person

NER.

Classification: SECRET
| Classified by 4996072 —_
IT I TF TF 4 LF LF LF a

;

y ESS SSS SSS SS



’ Classification:

(This, form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

apprehended. for Kennedy's slaying was the

“President of one of the Committees of the Fair
Play for Cuba." Luisa replied that she also knew -
this. Luisa inquired whether the person being
‘held for the killing was a "gringo." The unidenti-
fied caller replied, "yes." Luisa told her caller

that she had learned nothing else about the assassina-

tion and that she-had learned about the assassination
only a little while ago. The unidentified caller
commented: J a .

i: We think that if it had been or had
seemed...public or had been one of.
the segregationists or against
- intergration who had killed Kennedy,
then there was, let's say, the
possibility that a sort of civil
: war would arise in the United States;
that contradictions would be sharpened...
who knows ~

Luisa responded:

Imagine, one, two, three and now, that
makes three. (She laughs.) (Ibid, p. 2)

e
«

Raymond Rocca, in response to a 1975 Rocke-
feller Commission request for information on a
“possible Cuban conspiracy to assassinate. President

Kennedy wrote regarding Calderon's comments:

us
Fei

Classification:

NR,

1 Classified by cewoten STS L
eT . Te Te TF



Classificatign: —Seceee _
This ie is fo ie i ist lad Satasted
A; a

ams ClA—eoalraled SSeuments

i

-55-

Latin hyperbole? Boastful’ ex post facto
suggestion of foreknowledge. This is the

only item in the[intercept Jcoverage of

the Cubans and Soviets aftér the assassina-
tion that contains the suggestion of fore-
knowlege of expectation. (CIA Doc.,
Memorandum of Raymond Rocca for DC/OPS,
5/23/75, p. 15)* Cae PSSa for

Standing by itself, Luisa Calderon's cryptic

comments do not merit serious attention. Her words

sinister implication. Nevertheless, the Committee
has determined that Luisa Calderon's case should

have merited ‘serious attention in the months following

the assassination.

In connection with the assassination, Luisa
Calderon's name first surfaced on November 27, 1964
in a cable sent by then Ambassador Mann to the State

Department (CIA Doc. DIR 85573, 11/27/63).
6 *
In that cable Mann stated:

“,..Washington should urgently consider
feasibility of requesting Mexican authorities
to arrest for interrogation: Eusebio Azcue,
Luisa Calderon and Alfredo Mirabal. The two
men are Cuban national and Cuban consular
officers. Luisa Calderon is a secretary

in Cuban Consulate here." (ibid.)

may.indeed indicate foreknowledge of the assassina-

Glassification: —secces 098075 j
jd wy sen, — Co Ber

i
220

g tion but may equally be interpreted without such a


Sealiua oe acne
erm ig-18 tes ge pala & satasies
rom, Caco
-55a-

*Regarding the issue of whether. Calderon's conments

could reasonably be interpreted to indicate possible.

foreknowledge, the CIA position is as follows:

During the Rockefeller Commission inquiry,
Calderon's conversation was identified

as a possible item of information from
the[Agency's cuban and. Soviet[ telephone
intercepts [that might suggest .foreknowledge
ofa plot assassinate the American Presi-
dent. This involves a faulty translation of an
answer Calderon gave to her caller. In answer
to the latter's question as to whether she
had heard the latest news, Calderon said:

(the first person of the verb enterars
past tense) should be translated as

“Si, claro, me entere casiantes que Kennedy."
The verb entere is mistranslated. Me enfere
gis,
I found

out. (or I'learned) /about it -~ the assassination7

almost before Kennedy /did7." In other words,

Calderon was saying she heard about the shooting

of Kennedy almost at the time the event took
place..." (CIA Doc., Memorandum Regarding
Luisa Calderon conversation, p.1).

The Committee fundamentally disputes the
narrow interpretation of Calderon's comments
assigned by the Agency. It is the Committee's
position that translation of Me Entere as
either “I found out" or "I learned about"

does not foreclose interpretation of CalderoMs ¢
comments as a suggestion on her part of possible
foreknowledge of President Kennedy's assassination.
The interpretation, inang vert, should have conlett to
He judepasttettheiarren Pen CommssSion y 1 st TCA

Glassification:

20.0526 | Cea ty, eset,

MT MI LM LE a a a a.

000978

a

VR Va.

ate

a.


po
i
y
’
oy
y
;
,
i
y
a

LT
Classification: secret

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted

fare Gb rorsolled shecppsptinuterial “extracted

from ClA—controlled sigcuments.)

This. cable does not state the basis for
arresting Calderon.* However, the CIA's copy of this
cable bears a handwritten notation on its routing
page. That notation states: "Info from Amb Mann
for.Sec Rusk re: ...persons involved with Oswald
in Cuban Embassy." Mann went on to state in urgent
terms: “They may quickly.be returned to Havana in
order to eliminate any possibility that-Mexican
government could use them as witnesses." (Ibid.)

According to CIA files, Calderon made
reservations. to return. to Havana on Cubana-Airlines on
December uu, 1963,. less than four. weeks after. the.
assassination. (CIA Doc. CSCI-316/01783-65, 4/26/63)

Calderon, Azcue and Mirabal were not arrested
nor detained for questioning by the Mexican federal
police. However, Silvia Duran, a friend and associate

of Calderon's and the one person believed to have  %%

*It is the Committee's belief that Mann was prompted
to request the-arrest of Calderon.on:the basis of
Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte's allegation ‘that Calderon
was present at the. Cuban Embassy when. Oswald

was allegedly given a sum of money presumably to
carry out the assassination of President Kennedy.
(CIA Doc. DDP4-2741, 1 June 1964, Attachment C)

Crs es ——
Slentfsd by dssitiser

asa

900077

800527 c. Berk

e

Witte,

i


i 2a ET av yA = r N
Classification: Secret __ y=

This fern ie {8 be ysed for lial siteasted
i clA=sente i ota

-57-

had repeated contact with Oswald while he was in
Mexico City, was arrested and questioned by ‘the
Mexican police on two separate occasions. (CIA
Doc. DIR 84950, 11/23/63, CIA Doc. DIR 85471, i
11/27/63)

During her. second interrogation, Duran was
questioned regarding her association with Calderon.
There is no indication in ane reinterrogation report
accounting for the questioning of Duran about Calderon.

(CIA Doc. DDP4-0940, 2/21/64) . The information regarding

on February 21, 1964, more than two months after
Calderon had returned to Cuba. (Ibid.)

Information was reported to the CIA during
May 1964, from a Cuban defector, tying Luisa
Calderon to the Cuban Intelligence apparatus. The
defector, AMMUG-1, was himself a Cuban Intélligence
Officer who supplied valuable and highly reliable
information to the CIA regarding Cuban Intelligence
operations. (CIA Doc., Memorandum of Joseph Langosch

to Chief, Office of Security, 6/23/64) Calderon's

Duran‘'s. interrogation was Passed to the Warren Commission - 4

Glassification: —secroe___ 008678
2000523 : | Cessifiess by, dgcivation: C. Berk

hk a ME a a a a


a: av. 4 yy. ™
Classification: Secret

This form is tg isr_matgiial satestes
a Aa SSumENe?)

-57a~

ties to Cuban intelligence were reported ‘to the Warren
Commission on June 18, 1964.- (CIA Doc. FOIA #739-319,
6/19/64) However, the Committee has determined from
its review that the CIA did not provide Calderon's
conversation of November 22 to the Warren Commission.

Consequently, even-though the Warren Commission was aware that.

a

CRET o09078

2000529 | Ceassfisd by reg, ——— ———

 W @ f DP DD Df ww ee


Classification: Fok ol

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Calderon had connections to intelligence work,

as did. other Cuban Embassy officers, the vital

- link between her background and. her comments

was never established. for the Warren Commission

by the CIA. The Agency's oversight: in this

regard may have forclased the Commission from -

actively pursuing a lead of great significance.
Calderon's-201 file reveals that she

arrived in Mexico City from Havana on January 16,

1963, carrying Cuban Passport E/63/7. Her date

of birth was believed to be 1940 (CIA Doc. Dispatch

HMMA21612, no date given) Calderon's presence in

Mexico City was first reported by the CIA on July

15, 1963 FA a dispatch from the CIA's Miami field

office to the CIA's Mexico City station and to the

Chief of the CIA's Special Affairs Staff (for Cuban

operations). (CIA Doc. Dispatch[sFca-0095, 7/15/63)

That dispatch had attached to it a report containigg a
biographic data on personnel then assigned to the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. At page three of the
attached report Luisa Calderon was listed as Secretary

of the Cuban Embassy's commercial office. The

a.

009080

Classification:

RR,

| Classified by derivation:


Classification: ——_SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted g
from ClA—controlled documents.)

notation indicated that a report was pending on Ee
: . No such report is present
Calderon.  (Ibid., p. 3 of attachment) ‘The in Calderon's
201 File. .
Agency has attempted, without success, to locate i
_the report. i eee aeaet j

Luisa Calderon's association with the Cuban
DGI was first recorded by the CIA on May 5, 1964.
(CIA boc.“Biind Nenorandum of [Harold Swenson, ] FOIA
68-290 5/5/64) At that time, Joseph Langosch,
Chief of Counterintelligence for. the Special Affairs

Staff, reported the results of his debriefing of

2 VA VA

the Cuban defector, AMMUG-1. The .memorandum stated
that AMMUG-1 had no direct knowledge of Lee Harvey

Oswald or his activities but was.able to provide

items of interest based upon the comments of certain

Cuban Intelligence Service officers. (Ibid.) Specificaliy,
-AMMUG-1 was asked if Oswald was known to the:Cuban
intelligence services before November 23, 1963.

AMMUG-1 told Langosch "Prior to October 1963, Oswagad

e
visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City—on two or
three occasions. Before, during and after these
visits, Oswald was in contact with the Direccion
ns
Classification: 008031 3

| Classified by derivation:



Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.) SN
General De Intelligencia (DGI), specifically bbe
“with Luisa Calderon, Manuel. Vega Perez, and 7 ae °

Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez." (Ibid.)

Langosch thereaf: that Calderon's ;
precise relationship to the DGI was not clear.

As a comment to this statement he set forth the
CIA cable:and dispatch traffic which recorded her
arrival in Mexico during January 1963 and departure
for Cuba within one month after the assassination.
(Ibid. )

On May 7, 1964, Langosch recorded additional
information he had elicited: from AMMUG-1 regarding
Oswald's possible contact with the DGI: (CIA Doc
FOIA 687-295, ee 3 5/7/64) Paragraph 3 of
this memorandum stated in part:

“a. Luisa Calderon, since she returned
to Cuba, has been paid a regular
salary by the DGI even though she
has not performed any services.
Her home is in the Vedado section Bo»
where the rents are high.

b. Source (AMMUG) has known Calderon
for several years. Before going
to Mexico, she worked in the
Ministry of Exterior Commerce
in the department which was known
as the "Empress Transimport."

Her title was Secretary General
of the Communist Youth in the
department named in the previous
sentence. (Ibid.) SECRET

Classification:

009622

|. Classified by derivation:

J
§
JS
J
SJ
p
§
;



i p : Classification: __se 5

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

On May 8 Langosch further disclosed AMMUG's

g knowledge of the Oswald case. (Ibid, attach. 5) ae
! : Langosch paraphrased AMMUG's knowledge of Calderon
g as follows:

I thought that Luisa Calderon might have

had contact with Oswald because I learned

about 17 March 1964, shortly before I made

a trip to Mexico, that she had been

involved with an American in Mexico. The
information to which I refer was told to

me by a DGI case officer... I-had commented

to (him) that it seemed strange that Luisa
Calderon was receiving a salary from the

DGI although she apparently did not do

any work for the Service. (The case officer)
told me that hers was: a peculiar case and

that he himself. believed that she had been
recruited in Mexico by the Central Intelligence
Agency although Manuel Pineiro, the Head

of the DGI, did not agree. As I recall,

{the case officer) had investigated Luisa
Calderon: This was because, during the’ time
she was in Mexico, thé DGI had intercepted

a letter to her by an American who signed

“his name OWER. (phonetic) or something

similar. As you know, the. pronunciation

of Anglo-Saxon names is @ifficult in

Spanish so Iam not sure of how the name
mentioned by Hernandez should be spelled.

It could have been "Howard" or something
different. As I understand the matter, By a
the letter from the American was a love
letter but indicated that there was a
clandestine professional relationship
between the writer and Luisa Calderon.

I also understand from (the case officer)
that after the interception of.the letter
she had been followed and seen-in the
company of an American.. I do not know if
this could have been Oswald... (Ibid.)

gues
eeceedl

Classification:

p
J
f
j
f
p
ji
j
j
;
}

000633

|» Classified by derivation:



Classification: ee Stcpey

(This form is to be used for: material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.' )

On May 11, Raymond Rocca wrote a memorandum
to Director Richard Helms regarding the information
[ Swenson aaa elicited from AMMUG (CIA Doc. FOIA 687-295,
5/11/64, Rocca Memorandum) Rocca proposed that "the

DDP in person or via a designee, perferably the
former, discuss the AMMUG-1 situation on a very
restrictéd basis with Mr. Rankin at his earliest
convenience either at the Agency or at the Commission
headquarters. Until this takes Place, it is not
desirable to put anything in writing. (Ibid. p. 2)

On May 15, 1964, Helms wrote Rankin regarding
AMMUG's information about the DGI, indicating its
sensitivity and operational significance. (CIA-Doc.
FOIA 697-294, 5/15/64, Helms Memorandum) Attached
to Helms" communication. was a paraphrased accounting
of Langosch's May S memorandum. (Ibid.) In that
attachment the intelligence associations of Manuel
Vega Perez and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez were set for%gh.
However, that attachment made no reference whatsoever
to Luisa Calderon.

Howard Willens of the Warren Commission
requested as a follow-up'to the May 15 memorandum,

SECRET

a

Classification:

009634

|. Classified by derivation: _-

Oo DS WW wa a aw 7

p
i
p
p
§
5
p
5
;
j
5


= 63 -
Classification:

“SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

access to the questions used in Langosch's

woo i daa
interrogation of AMUG. (CIA Doc. Fora 739~316, 6/19/64,

Memorandum) On dune 18,°1964 arthur Dooley of
Rocca!s @ounterintelligence Research and Analysis
Group took the questions and AMMUG's responses to
the Warren Commission's offices for Willen's review:
Willens Saw Langosch's May 5 memorandum. The only
mention’ of Calderon was as follows: . "The precise
relationship of Luisa Calderon to ‘the DGI is not
clear. She spent about six months. in Mexico from
which she returned to Cuba early in 1964." (Tbid.)
However, Willens was not..shown Langosch's
memoranda, of May 7 and May 8, 1964 which contained
much more detailed information on Luisa :Calderon,
including her ‘possible association with Lee Harvey
Oswald and/or American intelligence. (Ibid.)*

The Warren Commission as of June 19, 1964,
had little if no reason to pursue the Luisa Calderdy

lead. It had effectively been denied significant

es

* It should be noted that these memoranda: of May 5, -
7, 8, 1l and June 19 with attachments, are not
referenced in the Calderon 201 file. (See ctIa
Computer printout of Calderon 201-file) Their
existence was determined by the Committee's
independ6hassifi¢ertiowi: other agence files.

000085

SECRET)! tossitied by derivation:

§
$
§
5
5
5

,
}
j


Classification: ——sEERET—

(This form isto be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

background information. This denial may have .
impeded or prevented the Commission's pursuit

of Calderon's povéntial relationship to. Oswald

“and the assassination of President Kennedy. But

even if the Warren Commission had  learfied

of Calderon's background. and possible contact with

Oswald it still had been denied the one significant.

piece of. information that might have raised. its
interest in Calderon to a more serious level. ‘The
Warren Commission was never told about Calderon's”

conversation of November 22, 1964.

é
°
pesseeeeeeins
.

NG.

|


,
‘
f
r
,
s

-$
s
,
s
’
‘

Classification: SECRET

(This form is to be u: for material
locu

from ClA—controlled di ts.)

Sete -/ the Calderon 201” =

. Ferra s
reference to the conversation nor does it indicate”

that it was ever made known to or provided the.

Warren Commission for its analysis. (CIA Comput

print-out of Calderon 201 file)

In an effort to determine the manner in which the

treated the Calderon conversation this Committee
posed the following questions to the CIA:

1. Was the Warren Commission or any. Warren
Commission staff member ever given access
to the transcript of a telephone conversa-
tion, dated November 22, 1963, between a
female employee of the Cuban Embassy/
Consulate in Mexico City, identified
as Luisa, and an unidentified male speak-
ing from outside the Cuban Embassy/Con-
sulate? If so, please indicate when 6
this. transcript was provided to the Warren
Commission or its staff, which CIA official
provided it, and which Warren Commission
members or staff reviewed it.

ae

2.. Was the Warren Commission or any member
of the Warren Commission or any Warren
Commission staff member ever informed

SeCREL

Classification:

p
f
J
}
f
f
p
p
;
p
;
J

1 ~ Classified by derivation: 000087 09087
fF LF I LF I LF Y


Classification:
Th i eB is tg fps ae sed fee pie mest

rom sonia gecumat

-65a-

orally or in writing of the substance of the
above~referenced conversation of November 22,
1963? If so, please indicate when and

in what form this information was provided,
and which CIA official provided it. (HSCA
request letter of August 28, 1978)

The CIA responded by memorandum:

“Although the (Mexico City) Station considered
the conversation of sufficient possible
interest to send a copy to headquarters,
the latter apparently did nothing with
it, for there appears to.be no record in the

i

p

é

Sb
so
U Oswald file of such action as may have
p

p

o

4

4

a

been taken. A review of those Warren
Commission documents containing information
provided by the Agency and still bearing a
Secret or Top Secret classification. does
not reveal whether the conversation was
given or shown to the Commission."

_ (CIA Doc., Memorandum Regarding Luisa
Calderon conversation, p. 1)

The available evidence thus supports the
conclusion that the Warren Commission was never
given the information nor the opportunity. by

which it could evaluate Luisa Calderon's

or

significance to the events surrounding President
Kennedy's assassination. Had the Commission been
expeditiously provided this evidence of her :
intelligence background, association with Silvia
Duran, and her comments following the assassination,

000688

it may well have given more serious investigative

Glassifleatien: — secret
| Grasiiedabyyecietinen: ea. Bel:

MT LT 9 £2 40 4 a a a .


Classification:
consideration to her potential knowledge of Oswald
(This form is to be, used for material extract

and the CURB n FIXSZDAMPDiEd TORMENT LE Lnveteement in

a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

Two difficult issues remain which are raised

by the Committee's finding. First, why didn't
$— : the Agency provide the Calderon conversation to the
+ Warren Commission; secondly, why didn't the Agency
reveal to the Warren Commission its full knowledge
| Calderon's intelligence background, her possible

ey
ij yr knowledge of Oswald and]her possible connection to
ayy ne otf

Ne, rae 0 the CIA or some other American intelligence apparatus.
Feb esieeereereetreere errreE rere .
wad

The first question can be explained in benign

are terms. It is reasonably possible that by sheer.

VA CA SS SS WR

oversight the conversation was filed away and not

" recovered or recollected until after the Warren

Commission had completed its investigation and... i
H(see p OS) cicdler portion AS -foctnate hereiy

published its report.” (See above CIA explanation)

USE,

As for the Agency's withholding of information
concerning Calderon's intelligence background,’ the

record reflects that the Commission was merely

e
.

informed that Calderon may have been a member of

the DGI. (CIA Doc. 3/8/64,[ Swenson }temorandum)
The memoranda which provided more extensive examina-

tion of her intelligence background were not made

SECRET
Classification: = “990039

SES, SER,

| Classified by derivation:

1



Classification: _ secret

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

might have been requested to locate Luisa Calderon's

sister. Ronis told the. Committee that he had no

recollection of recruiting any person associated

with the Cuban Intelligence Service. He did recall

that he had recruited women to perform tasks for

the Agency. However, he did not recall ever recruiting

any employees of the. Cuban Embassy/Consulate in

Mexico City. Finally, Mr: Ronis stated that he had

no recollection that Luisa Calderon was associated
‘with the CIA. (Ibid.)

Various present and former CIA representatives
were queried whether Luisa Calderon had ever been
associated with the CIA. The uniform answer was
that no one recalled such an association. (Cites:
Exec. Sess, Test. of Richard Heims, 8/9/78, p. 136;
HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 148;
HSCA Staff Interview of Joseph Langosch,. 8/21/78,
Piccolo, Interview of __)

Thus, the Agency's file on Calderon. and thats
testimony of former CIA employees have revealed no
connection between Calderon and the CIA. Yet, as

indicated earlier, this file is incomplete:the

T

rel

SCR
- Classification: ae

; 90693 93
| Classified: by D9

MM MT a a a a a

p
f
p
:
f
;
p
f
;
;
;


- most glaring omission being the absence

(This form is to be for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

=
5; from

Caldecon's

her 201 filefof * cryptic remarks

following the assassination of President Kennedy.
Buckyfound wd
ammuc-Y Pan eren edit PoaveetA Tm Sythe
PAL SA SOA AUON
This Committee's investigation of Luisa

he: ny

Calderon has revealed that a defector from the Cuban .

Intelligence Services provided the CIA with signi-

with the DGI-in Mexico City. This defector was

assigned the cIA eryptonym AMMUG- 1. (A-1 hereinafter) -*

CIA ‘files. reveal that A-1 defected from the

DSI on April 21, 1964 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, oe

When he defected, A-1 possessed a number of DGI

documents, which. were subsequently turned aver to

‘the CIA. (CIA poc. [ora }rN. 68894, 4/24/64)
n

Following his defection, a CIA officer, Joseph H.?

Langosch, went [co canada }to meet A-l, debrief him,

and arrange for A-l's travel into the United States.

(Ibid.) On May 1, 1964, 22 reels of Langosch' s

*#It-is now known that A- 1 did provide sig t
nate)

leads to the CIA regarding Luisa Caldere
hat little of this information

fur ten, ea is <!
was Crassitice OMe py the CIA to the Warren Commission-
- Therefore, the esorierttsy exists. that A-l had
provided other information tq RR schidd by derivation
AL

Y sw Ss a ae Vargas ire "s work 'w

ficant information about Lee Harvey Oswald's contacts 5
gt
as


: Se SECRET

Classification:

ns oe

(This form is to be used for material extracted |
from ClA—controlled documents.)

debriefing of A-l. were forwarded tof the Chief of
Station in ottawa, Canada. ] (CIA Doc. Dispatch {ocpa"]
7763, 5/1/64) Effective on May 1, A-l-was under
contract with the CIA for operational purposes.

(CIA Doc. Contract Approving Officer Memo, 6/6/64)

By June 23, 1964, Langosch was convinced that A-L
would be of great value to the Agency. He stated:

There is no. question in my mind‘ that

AMMUG-1 is a bona fide defector or

that he has furnished us with accurate

and valuable information concerning

Cuban intelligence operations, staffers,

and. agents.. (CIA Doc. Langosch Memo ‘to :
Director of Security, 6/23/64)

As an officer of the DGI, A-l from August of
1963 until his defection was assigned to the DGI's
Illegal Section B (CIA pec. forza }rx 68894 4/24/64)
which was responsible for training agents for
assignment in Latin America. His specific responsi-
bility pertained to handling of agent operations
in El Salvador. (CIA Doc. Personal Record Question~"
naire 6/4/64; CIA Doc.[otta fin 68894 4/24/64)

A-1 identified for the CIA the Cuban Intelli-
gence officers assigned to Mexico City. Langosch
described A-1's knowledge of DGI operations in

Mexico as follows:
Sern

SECRET

Classification:

on

1 Classified by derivation;

J
Ss
f
p
5
f
a
p
5
}
j

4


: =
Classification: _SECREL

(This form is to be used for. material’ extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

In Mexico City, he knows who the
intelligence people are. One is the
Cuban Consul Alfredo Mirabal.. He is
called the Chief of the Centre... That

is his title but he is actually the
intelligence chief; or-at least he

was until. the 16th of April at which
time a replacement: was sent to Mexico

to take over. This fellow's name is
Manuel Vega. The source says that

the Commercial attache whose name is
Ricardo Tapia or Concepcion (he is»

not sure which is an intelligence
officer) and another one is Rogelio.

( I.might say thatsome of these names
are familiar to me.) (Langosch debriefing
of A-1, 4/30/64, p. 5 of reel 4, 4/23/64)

Thus, A-l was able to provide the CIA soon
after his defection with accurate information
regarding DGI operations and DGI employees in
Mexico City. * En sect From ple

The Committee has reviewed the CIA's files
concerning A-1. This examination was undertaken
to determine: 1) whether A-1 had provided any
valuable investigative leads to the CIA pertaining

to the assassination of President Kennedy; and 2)

whether, if such leads were provided, these leads :
and/or other significant information were made
available to the Warren Commission.
SECRET
Classification: ;
| Classified by eve DIESE


al
; SECRET,

Classification:

(This form is to. be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

The Committee's initial review of the

materials provided by the CIA to the Warren

Commission did not disclose the existence of the
AMMUG files. However, the Committee did during

the course of its review examine a file containing
material passed to the Rockefeller Commission. That
file.made reference to A-l. Included in this

file was a memorandum of May 5,'1964 written by

Joseph Langosch which concerned information A-l
provided about the Oswald case. (CIA Doc. FOIA 68-290

Langosch Memorandum, 5/5/64) Also contained within

May 7, and May 8, 1964 previously cited with regard

to Luisa Calderon. (CIA Doc. FOIA 4687-295, attach's
3 and 5) ‘Following review of the memoranda, the
Committee requested access to all CIA files

| cicesning: Seefer rind to A-l.

From review. of these materials the Committee

e
ry

has determined that the Warren Commission did learn
during mid-May 1964 that Lee Harvey Oswald probably

had come in contact with DGI officers in Mexico City.

pa)
ha
ee

fa
.
2

Classification: : 009697

| Classified by derivation:

NEHA.

o
f

g

$

‘

§ this file were the A-1 debriefing memoranda of
fe

j

$

,

s

j

&

Ye a ww we an ae


6
4
g
a
é
6
p
j
4
g
ah:

Classification: SECRET

(This form isto be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
the Warren Commiss isn
Prior pate ei of ;Oswald's probable contact

with DGI officers, James Angleton, Chief ofthe :
CIA's Counter Intelligence Staff passed an internal
memorandum to Raymond Rocca, also of the Counter- =
intelligence Staff, which ‘stated that he had been
informed by the DDP,.Richard Helms, that J. Lee
Rankin had contacted John McCone to request that
the Director consent to an interview before the
Warren Commission on May 14, 1964, - (J. Edgar
Hoover also appeared. before the Commission on

that date prior to McCone's appearance. Warren
Commission Report ‘Ee reep)(CIA Doc. FOIA 689-298,
Memorandum of James Angleton, 5/12/64) Angleton
also wrote:

I discussed with Mr. Helms the nature of
the recent information which you are
processing which originated with the
sensitive Western Hemisphere source.. I
informed him that in your view this. would
raise a number..of new factors with the
Commission, that it should not go to the ~ %
Commission prior to the Director's appear-
ance unless we have--first had some pre-
liminary reaction or made sure that the
Director is fully aware of the implica-
tions. since it. could well serve as the
basis for detailed questioning. . The DDP
stated that he would review this care-
fully amd made (sic) a decision as to

the question of timing. (Ibid.)

Classification:

| Classified by deri 9-49-3—
fT LF m. LT LF LF LT

.

vi


&
é
at
6
L
4
p
“4
4
4
9

Classification: _

(This form is to be. used_for. material extracted
unadie Shi ene! dogumeetsd —) source referred

to in Angleton's memowWaS A-l. This conclusion is
based in part upon the date of this memo which
was quite close in time to A-l's defection. In
addition, Rocca's staff prepared prior

to DCI McCone's appearance before the Warren

pes :
: a"Brief %
Commission for Presentation to the Warren Commission

outlining various positions. adopted by the CIA vis a
vis its investigative efforts and assistance to the
Commission. (CIA Doc. FOIA 695-302-A, 5/14/64)

At Tab E of this brief it states:

Within the past week, significant infor-
mation has been developed by the CIA re-
garding the relationship with Oswald of
certain Cuban intelligence personnel in
Mexico City and the reaction in Havana
within the Cuban Intelligence Service

to. the news of the assassination of
President Kennedy. The Commission Staff
is in the course of being briefed on the:
Cuban asspect. (Ibid., Tab E)

On May 15, 1964, the day of McCone's interview,
the Warren Commission received its first formal

6
communication regarding A-l. (CIA Doc FOIA 697-294,

5/15/64) However, the Agency did not at that time
identify A-l by his real name or cryptonym nor did

the Agency indicate that the source of this information
~ it

REL

s

€

rm

Classification:

| Classified by erie AQ, 0639 |


_ Classification: ___ SECRET,

(This form isto be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

was.a defector then residing under secure conditions
in the Washington, D.C. area. (Ibid.) The May 15
communication did i state that the Agency had
established contact “with a well-placed invidivual
who has been in close and prolonged contact with
ranking officers of the Cuban Direccion General de
Intelligencia." . (Ibid.) u

Attached to.the May 15 communication was a
copy of Langosch's above referenced memorandum of
May 5, 1964 regarding knowledge of Oswald's pro-
bable contact with ‘the DGI in Mexico City. The
attachment made no reference to the source's status _
as a defector from the DGI. (Ibid., attachment)

As set forth in the section of this report.
concerning Luisa Calderon, on June 18, 1964, Howard
Willens of the Warren Commission reviewed Langosch's
May 5 memo and the. questions upon which. the informa-
tion set forth in the memo was elicited. Neither fhe |
questions nor the memo shown to Willens made
reference to the source's status. as a defector col-
laborating with the CIA. (CIA Doc FOIA 739-319,

6/19/ 64).

Ww
rt
ie)
ps
na
et

Classification:

099199

| Classified by derivation:

i
p
Sf
b
f
5
p
J
;
}
$


b
4
4
b
§
4
6
id
p
g
a
g

- 79 - Ca re 7s)

Classification:

(This form is to be used for REGRE REL
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Based upon review of the Langosch memoranda,
the Committee has determined that significant

information Beare Luisa Calderon, specifically |
of Nov. details of her

her conversation sna-dhecciation with Cuban Intelligence

were withheld from the Warren Commission. ‘This
information as described above, was derived from
debriefings of ae “Brent the Committee's review
of the A-l file provided by the CIA, the Committee
has not found any credible evidence indicating that
other information provided by A-1 to the CIA was
relevant to the work of the Warren Commission. However,
in its review the Committee has determined that a
specific document . referenced in the A-l file is
not present in that file.
The missing itemis of considerable concern to
the Committee. It is a debriefing report of A-1
entitled "The Oswald Case." (CIA Doc Dispatch (UFGW- ]
5035, 3/23/65) On March 23, 1965, a CIA dispatch ag
records the transmittal of the report, along with
eleven other A-1 debriefing reports. (Ibid.) _ Next to
the listing of the "Oswald Case" debriefing report

is the handwritten notation "SI." A CIA employee

who has worked extensively with the Agency files

Classification: SEC RET.

| Classified by derivation 4 04
, a aw a a a a

.

a


g

wa a 2 a a oe ad py «x
Glassification: —sexet__SECRET,

This form is ig be used for material antester
fe clA—eenttalled documents) ne

-80-

system told a Committee staff member that ‘this
notation was the symbol for the CIA component
known as Special Intelligence. Other CIA
representatives believed the notation was a
reference to the Counterintelligence component
CI/SIG. IN a CIA memorandum dated September 27,

1978, the CIA has adopted the position that

J concerning AMMUG's knowledge of Lee Harvey

Rede. s possible gonfact | with the Dor.* Meet
- "Be REP coe we Sra we Sista ater shet oe Pedriebers é
es on ss AGM t
@ Committee has “ questionéd mons Cake iu helt

a

GR Gh Gh Gh Gh “Sh GA WA

officers regarding additional information that A-1 may
have supplied about Oswald. Joseph Langosch, when
interviewed by the Committee, stated that he did not

have contact with the Warren Commission and does

See.

6

not know what information derived from A~l's de-

briefings was supplied to the Warren Commission. (HSCA

eS

Staff Interview of Joseph Langosch, 8/21/78; Cite also

&

Interviews of Hildago & Piccolo) He also stated that

he does not. recall that A-1 provided any other information

Glassificatiga: ——secret——— 000102
ae | Chaitie y, artless e-—pente

a a a a a a a a

debriefing Report No. 40 is a duplication of
the original Langosch memorandum of May 5, 1964


Classification: Secret _

This form is i9 we ssed dor material satcerted
a clA—cenirailed sosuments))

-80a-

*The CIA memorandum states in part as follows:

When CI Staff learned of AMMUG-1's defection
and considered the possibility that he
might have some knowledge of the Oswald
case, CI Staff submitted a list of questions
to WH (Western Hemisphere) for debriefing
AMMUG-1...WH desk records reflect that
AMMUG-1 was debriefed on 4 May 64 regarding
( this questionnaire. ../B/ecause the debriefing
on the Oswald case was handled as a sensitive
matter, it was dictated directly to a CI
¢ (Counterintelligence) stenographer on
5 May 1964. /Note: A-1 was debriefed on
2 ND several subjects on 4 May 64. ‘The procedure
x" | was to assign each subject discussed a
7 debriefing number and they were written
¢ \ up in contact report form by the WH case
oy officer. The instructions from CI staff
: were to handle the Oswald case debriefing
& f very closely and not to keep any copies in

WH Division/. The "Oswald Case" was

logged in the WH notebook log as debriefing
report number 40, but the report itself

was dictated by the WH Case Officer directly
to a CI staff stenographer. There would

be no reason to include the number 40 on

the report of this special debriefing for

CI staff, since it was their only debriefing
report. We are certain it is the debriefing
report (#40) because the date is the same;
it is the only debriefing report on Oswald mi.
listed in AMMUG-1 records; and it it (sic)
the only AMMUG-l debriefing report in
Oswald's 201 file.

Vi Gi. 32 BR Eh Zh EA GA WA

e

.

(CIA Doc., Memorandum for the Record, Regarding
AMMUG-1 Debriefing Report on the Oswald
Case, 27 September, 1978, p. 1)

ay,

Glassificatign: SECRET _ "9901034

vite | Castles ty, deeetie, ————

NIE

ST I LE i a a a a 5


a 47 “TY a7 «
Glassification: Secret

TAs farm is tg be used for material extaatad
€lA=tentrelled documents)

=8l-

on Oswald's contact with the DGI except for that
set forth in the Memoranda of May 5, 7, and 8
as discussed herein. (Ibid.)

In a further effort to clarify the substance

of information that A-l provided to the CIA

to locate A-1. The CIA has also attempted to

locate A-1, whose present relationship with

the ency is ambiguous, but has been unable =
eae et if csee pet a for *)

to determine his present whereabouts.* The CIA's

regarding Oswald, the Committee has attempted f
inability to locate A-1 has been a source of j
concern to this Committee, particularly in
light of his long association. with the Agency. f
remains ‘acomplate with cenara te

Thus, trv, mers res phot Gisa* information A-1
may have supplied the CIA about Oswald. However, with
the exception of the Calderon episode and on the. % 4, j
basis of the CIA's written reocrd, it appears that 7
the CIA provided the Warren Commission with all A-1 ts f

information of investigative significance.

A separate question remains, however. The

Agency, as noted earlier, did not reveal to the

>

Warren Commission that A-1 was present in the

ne Fi ee eat
| Cessities by dprivation: =o Berk

5 LY ke Le i ii iy ily kis

a

” ®@&® 4B BC’ @]@ GS @S SE GS “SS GS Ss


;
$
g
é
4
p
p
p
p
4
p

Classification: secret _

This form is te be used far matesial sateested
om ClA—eentratied documents)

-8la-

*An April 1978 CIA communication to the FBI regarding
A-1 states in pertinent part:

Since 1971 (A-1) has not been involved

in any CIA operation.in Miami or elsewhere.
Joseph Norris Jis the alias of a CIA
representative[who periodically debriefs
(A-1)_ on personalities and methods of the
DGI. JThere is no other CIA involvement with
Rodriguez. (CIA Doc. 080760Z, CIA 202417,
Vol. 4, A-1 File 201-749651)

However, a CIA handwritten index card concerning
the Agency status of A-1 states:

2000533

5 47 4 SE Ma Me a Ms Le

Informed “Calvia" on 15 April 1977 that

(a-1) [is still an active contact, Jnot
receiving any salary, but could be paid if
and when used in an operation. No problems
here. Uspop will keep his contract in an
active folder. 7(CIA Doc., Handwritten Note,

15 April 1977,” contained in Vol. 4 of A-1 file
201-749651)

Gfassificatign: —seeret——— 000105

aaa

—

leslie, ty, deslvation, —cyBerk


a> > ee em Oe eS Oe OS @ Oo @ *

- 82 -
Classification:

(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted
WashingtorfronDCA—aardeollechepcumentek controlled

conditions, accessible to the Commission. Giving
due consideration to the CIA's serious concern

for protecting its sources, the fact that A-l's

status was not disclosed prevented the Warren
Commission from exercising a possible option,
i.e. to take the sworn testimony of A-l as it
concerned Oswald and the Kennedy assassination.
On this issue, as- the written record tends to
show, the Agency unilaterally rejected the possibility
of exercising this option.

In light of the establishment of A-l's
Rona fides, . aes eohas
proven reliability and his depth of knowledge of
Cuban intelligence activities, this option might

well have been considered by the Warren Commission.

vs, ~~. ‘a WA WA WA wo we we

The AMLASH Operation Cte be ime cge eh 1 or le
During 1967, the CIA's Inspector General

issued a report which examined CIA supported

assassination plots. Included in this report

was discussion of the CIA-Mafia plots and an

GRRE.

Si CRET

Classification:

m

SRR

Closstied by derive 208106

LY £9 LF LD LF LF LF £9 &F .


[ i Om mm  @ *

~ 83 -  - SECRET,
Classification: oa

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Agency project referred to as the AMLASH

operation (CIA Inspector General Report 1967

pp. 1-74, 78-112). The AMLASH operation involved
a high level Cuban official (assigned the CIA
cryptonyn AMLASB/1) who, during 1962 while meeting
with a CIA representative expressed the desire to
assassinate Fidel Castro (Ibid., p. 84). Asa
result of AMLASH's expressed objective and the
CIA's desire to find a viable political alternative
to the Castro regime, the Agency subsequently

provided AMLASH with both moral and material

pp. 80-94).. The AMLASH operation was terminated

“2: “2. Gh VA S UR GA.

by the CIA in 1965 as the result of security leaks.

(Ibid. pp. 104-106) During 1965, AMLASH and his

ERA,

conspirators were brought to trial in Cuba for plotting
against Castro. AMLASH was sentenced to death, but

at Castro's request the sentence was reduced to ™ » ;
twenty-five years imprisonment. (Ibid.. pp. 107-110).

. In its examination of the AMLASH operation

‘ERG, “.

the 1967 IGR concluded that the CIA had offered both

direct and indirect support for AMLASH's plotting (Ibid. p. of

SEC}
Classification: = >

Clositid by derivation, 009107
LF LT LF LF LF LF I LF LF .

é support designed to depose Fidel Castro. (Ibid.,


kT TF LF LF LF LF Le 4 ~

- 84 -

Classification: __ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

g The most striking example of the CIA's direct

offer of support to AMLASH reported by the

1967 IGR states "it is likely that at the very

s moment President Kennedy was shot a CIA officer

was meeting with a Cuban agent in Paris and giving

i him an assassination device for use against CASTRO."

(Ibid.)

Oe The 1967 IGR. offered no firm evidence confirming
or refuting Castro's knowledge of the AMLASH operation
prior to the assassination of President Kennedy. The

é 1967 IGR did note that in 1965 when AMLASH was

fa tried idPnavanatpress reports of Cuban knowledge

EN

of AMLASH's association with the CIA weredated from

November 1964, approximately one year after President
Kennedy's assassination. (Ibid. p. 111).
The Church Committee in Book V of its Final

Report examined the AMLASH operation in great detail.

(SSC, Book-V, pp. 2-7, 67-69) The Church Commitage

o

concluded:

|
M

The AMLASH plot was more relevant to the

‘G

Warren Commision work than the early CIA

assassination plots with the underworld.

NEUE.

Unilke those earlier plots, the AMLASH

Classification: __ S2CR30

NSE.

103
LI I I I DI I I LI LF .

Classified by ei 8


g
4
g
4
4
j
4
4
4
4
4

Te 7 7 4 ae ~

Classification: ___—=> SECRET.

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

operation was in progress at the time
of the assassination; unlike the earlier
plots, the AMLASH operation could
clearly be traced to the CIA; and
unlike the earlier plots, the CIA had
endorsed AMLASH's proposal for a coup,
the first step to him being Castro's
assassination, despite Castro's threat
to retaliate for such plotting. No one
directly involved in either investigation
(i.e. the CIA and the FBI) was told of
the AMLASH operation. No one investi-
gated a connection between the AMLASH

operation and President Kennedy's

assassination. Although Oswald had been

in contact with pro-Castro and anti-
Castro groups for many months before the
assassination, the CIA did not conduct
a thorough investigation of questions

of Cuban government or Cuban exile

involvement.in the assassination. (Ibid. p. 5).

w
ive
fa
re)
ae
in

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

| poois9
LY LF £9 LF F LF £9 FF

0

SE,

“a


part, wag intended as a rebuttal of the

4
g
2

A

- 86 -

Classification: SECRET.

(This form is to be used-for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

In 1977, the CIA issued a second Inspector
General's Report concerning the subject of CIA

sponsored assassination plots. This Report, in

Church Committee's findings. The 1977 IGR states:
The Report (of the Church Committee)
assigns it (the. AMLASH operation)

characteristics that it did not have

rd during the period preceding the assassina-

tion of JFK in order to support the SSC

view that it should have been reported

to the Warren Commission. (1977 IGR p. 2)

The 1977 IGR concluded that prior to the
assassination of President Kennedy, ‘the AMLASH
operation was not an assassination plot.

Nevertheless, the 1977 IGR did state:

credibility of [the Warcen Commission] —

its efforts had_it taken a broader view %®
of the matter Kof normal avenue of PF
°

investigation}. The CIA,-too, could
have eigationl in Gpecifi =

what most then saw in méral terms-~ S
the possibility of Soviet or Cuban
involvement in the assassination

because of the tensions of the time.
It is not enough to be able to point

T

Bic

mee)
fae a

tei

5

Classification:

TIT Dw eI a

900110

Classified by derivation;

NX

NE.

a“


g.
g
$
,
j
j
j
j
f
p
4
j

The

Classification: ____ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

to erroneous criticisms mad
The Agency should have Perey eras. iae
een as well. That
ER es at the time felt--as

they obviously did--that the activities

about which they knew had ‘no relevance

to the Warren Commission inquiry does

not take the place of a record of

conscious review. (Ibid. Pp. iyo

Richard Helms, as the highest level CIA
employee in contact with the Warren Commission on
a regular basis, testified to the Rockefeller
Commission that he did not believe the AMLASH
operation was relevant to the investigation of
President Kennedy's death. (Rockefeller Commission,
Testimony of Richard Helms, 4/24/75 Pp. 389-391,392)
In addition, Mr. Helms testified before this
Committee that the AMLASH operation was not designed
to be an assassination plot (Exec. Sess. Test. of
Richard Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 26-27).

A contrasting view to the testimony of Mr.

Helms was offered by Joseph Langosch who in 1963

. 8
was the Chief of Counterintelligence for the CIA's Specialy,
Affai
Stafi

Special Affairs Staff was the CIA component
responsible for CIA operations directed against
the Government of Cuba and the Cuban Intelligence
Services (HSCA Class. Affidavit of Joseph Langosch,

ee
sécRil,

Classification:

Classified by derivation VP BAL i
LI I I MI LI I LI LI aw

’


4
.
\
,
.
.
.
’

Glassification: Secret __

iris form is 1g be used fer meterisl satasted
OM CrA—eontralled sssuments-)

-88-

Sept. 14, 1978, p. 1) The Special Affairs Staff
was headed by Desmond FitzGerald and was responsible
for the AMLASH operation (SSC, Book V, pp. 3, 8, 79)
Langosch, as the Chief of Counterintelligence
for the Special Affairs Staff, was responsible for
safeguarding SAS against penetration by foreign
intelligence services, particularly the Cuban
Intelligence Services (HSCA Classified Affidavit
of Joseph Langosch, 9/14/78, p. 3). It was
Langosch's recollection that:
++.the AMLASH operation prior to the
assassination of President Kennedy was
characterized by the Special Affairs
staff, Desmond Fitzgerald (sic) and other
senior CIA officers as an assassination

operation initiated and sponsored by the
: CIA. (Ibid., p. 4)

VR GR UR VA GA GA wR

Wak.

Langosch further recollected that as of 1962

it was highly possible that the Cuban Intelligence

e
—

Services were aware of AMLASH and his association

with the CIA and that the information upon which 4
ES

he based his conclusion that the AMLASH
operation was insecure was available to senior level CIA 4
Jeep Bsa tocw) :
officials, including Desmond FitzGerald. (Ibid., p. 4) E

However, the issue before this Committee is i:
Glassificatign: —seeres——__ 000112 j
| Ceti ay tien, —C— Berk

LF LF £9 5 Le Se fe iy Say .

lavelaYes
208 IGG-3

y BBB EE BS BV eS SD GS SESE


ea a ee oe aw a
Ghassificatign: ——Seczet __

(fais farm is t8 i used for metsris! extasted
2m, Ca—sentrelled documents.

-88a-

*In response to Langosch's sworn statements, this
Committee has received from the CIA an affidavit

executed by Kent L. Pollock (CIA pseudonym) who "served
as Executive Officer for Desmond FitzGerald during the
entire period in which he was Chief of the Special Affairs
Staff...and discussed with him the AMLASH operation as it
progressed." (CIA Doc., Affidavit of Kent L. Pollock,
executed Oct. 5, 1978, p. 1) Mr. Pollock specifically
contested Langosch's assertion that the AMLASH operation
was characterized by the Special Affairs Staff, Desmond
FitzGerald, and other senior level CIA officials as an
assassination operation. In pertinent part, Pollock
drew the following conclusions:

é To the best of my knowledge, Mr. FitzGerald
considered the AMLASH operation to be a political
a action activity with the objective of organizing
a group within Cuba to overthrow Castro and the
Castro regime by means of a coup d'etat. TI heard
Mr. FitzGerald discuss the AMLASH operation
frequently, and never heard him characterize it as
an “assassiahtion operation." Mr. FitzGerald
stated within my hearing on several occasions
his awareness that coup d'etat often involve
| loss of life. (Ibid., par. 3, p. 2) :

He also stated:

Desmond FitzGerald did not characterize the AMLASH
operation as an “assassigntion operation"; the

case officer did not; I,~as Executive Officer, never
discussed any aspect of the AMLASH operation with
Joseph H. Langosch; the Deputy Chief, the o al
branch chiefs and the special assistants coul not
have so characterized it since they did not know
about the pen (the pen was specially fitted with a
hypodermic syringe in response to urgings by AMLASH
for a means to start the coup by killing Castro.

The case officer offered the pen to AMLASH on the day
of President Kennedy's death. AMLASH rejected the
pen with disdain. /Tbid., par. 4, p. 2/7), (Ibid.,
par. 6, p. 3)

Hicatign: —secees ____ 909212 {
| Cafes by draiketinns. —e—Bexk

FT a a as.


6
g
p
6
p
g
g
4
g
g
p
gp

Classification: Eon =

not simp1y "bg fepp is tds sigr spaterial
from ClA—controlled documents:
assassination plot prior to President Kennedy's

death. The broader and more significant issue,
as the 1977 IGR has identified it, is whether
the AMLASH operation was of sufficient relevancy
to have been reported to the Warren Commission.

In the case of the AMLASH Operation this
determination is a most difficult matter to
resolve. Reasonable men may differ in their
characterization of the Agency's operational
objectives.

Based upon the presently available evidence
it-is the Committee's position that such informa-
tion, if made available to the Warren Commission,
might have stimulated the Commission's investiga-
tive concern for possible Cuban involvement or
complicity a the assassination. As J. Lee Rankin
commented before this Committee:

+:+when I read...the Church Committee's %

report--it was an ideal situation for

them to just pick out any way they

wanted to tell the story and fit it

in with the facts that had to be met

and then either blame the rest of it.

on somebody else or not tell any more
or polish it off. I don't think that

SECR

mi

T

Classification:

006114

Classified by derivation:

4 LF LF LF LF LI LI MT SF

We

me


§
6
6
6
6
4
§
p
gp
p
j
j
&

+

Pee ‘of ET,
Classification: sEicR

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

could have happened back in 1964.

I think there would have been a

much better chance of getting to

the heart of it. rt might have

only revealed that we are involved

in it and who approved it and all
that. But I think that would

have at least come out. (HSCA Class.
Depo. of J. Lee Rankin, 8/17/78, p.91)

The Committee is in agreement with Mr. Rankin

that had the AMLASH Operation been disclosed to

the Warren Commission, the Commission might have

been able to foreclose the speculation and conjecture

that has surrounded the AMLASH operation during

the past decade. As history now records, the AMLASH

operation remains a footnote to the turbulent

relations between Castro's Cuba and the United States.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

P0BL15 ,

°

7

feng 5

§
i"

sf

;

f

5

j

SHE

2
