{180-10104-10394] 2022 RELEASE C23 THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/2/201
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES =

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information
HSCA
180-10104-10394
NUMBERED FILES.
012918

Document Information

DOD
DOD

00/00/0000
10

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.
VECIANA, ANTONIO.
LEADS & INFORMATION.

REPORT.
Unclassified
1A

Redact
06/13/1997

Box 227. 227-2.

vol
HW 50955 Docla:32260836

Page 1


ky

NW 50955

Third ‘agency

1. CIA Msg

-- 1/23/74 Review of file - certification file conforms
with DA policies currently in effect.

-- Msg DA IN 278336 © 2022302 oct 62

1.

Alpha 66

‘@ta 2522262 Sept 62, RE: Current plans of

According. to Dup 750 . (source) Veciana
reported A66 will conduct 2 actions within next
10 days.’ Veciana departing Puerto Rico

for Miami 20 Oct. Said action at La Isabela
(Cuba) did occur but not'as reported in the
press. Original intent to sink Soviet ship,
however mine, which was to be used was lost.
Consequently attack made on beachside camp.
Estimated 5 Cubans or Russians wounded.

Dup 742 reports next action of DRE will be
to attempt to assassinate a prominent Cuban

. Communist before the end of October.

Comment: Veciana's description of La Isabela
probably much more accurate than his press
releases. Both previous A66. operations
carried out while Veciana still in Miami.
Still no conclusive evidence operation at

La Isabela actually took place.

(Reverse side carries routing information. —
Action officer signature appears to be W.N.Wood
or W.J. Wodd .10/22/62.)

DocId: 32260836 Page 2


Department of Defense notes
Antonio veesene #AA90 4916.

3rd Party info

1.

cIA Msg" ata 2522262 sept. ‘62, re Current Plans of Alpha 66.

1/23/74 - Review of file - certification file. conforms w/DA
policies currently in effect.

-Msg DA IN 278336 2022302 Oct. '62

FROM: CGANTCOMC/USAR CARIB Fort Brooke PR
TO: .. ACSI, :DA..WASH, DC :
INFO: CGUSARCARIB Fort Amador CD, pio Tenth Naval
District, San Juan, PR
NR: ANTGB 80
From G2 for G2

(Declassified from confidential)

1.

NW 50955

According to (Dup 750), Veciana reported A66 will conduct 2
actions within next 10 days. Veciana departing PR for Miami
20 Oct. Said action at La Isabela did occur, but not as
reported in press. Original intent to sink Soviet ship;
however, mone which was to be used was lost. . Consequently,
attack made on beachside camp. Est. 5 Cubans or Russians
wounded...

(Dup 742) reports next action of DRE will be to attempt
assassinate prominent Cuban communist before end of October.

Comment: V's description of La Isabela probably much more
accurate than his press releases. Both previous A66 ops
carried out while V. in Miami. Still no conclusive evidence
op. at La Isabela actually took place. .

(Reverse side carries routing information. Action officer's
signature appears to be W.N. Wood or W.J. Wood. 10/22/62.)

Docld: 32260836 Page 3



Veciana: otes :

eciana #AC 4 3178

- 1/23, 4 - ee and certification file conforms w/o policies
currently. in. effect.

tration. ‘request terminated wout prejudice 4/22/66 -
jervice © #8D_ 10721

- Memo: for record 4/19/66 _ : “p-747
wRes Veciana :

i. 4/19/66 telephone request received from pete? from Mr.
Lucey, CIA (w) 7 regarding Veciana.

2. Lucey stated’ he was departing immediately for N. ye where was. £0
meet a Mr. Cogswell, not further identified. During this
contact, Lucey expected to meet an acquaintance of Veciana,
not further ID'd, and perhaps Vv.

3. Purpose of call was ‘to ascertain if Detachment A had any
- objection to CIA (W) poss. coming into contact w/V.. It
was emphasized by Lucey that no contact w/him was planned.
Lucey was informed that no objection was present, but if
contact was made, a report detailing the circumstances was
desired.
Signed: John F. McGowan
Mjr. 41S - LANTCOM Desk

Memo Cont'd.

MFR ~ V. former treas. of A66 and SAFE on.whom 01 was est.
on 11/19/62 for project. AUTOBOAT (C). "He was initially
contacted to est. meeting w/3 frogmen of the SNFE who had
been drawn (sucked up?) to the side of. the Soviet ship which
they were attempting to. sabotage." Thru V. c/o met Meriora
(sic)...who arranged the meeting w/3 frogmen. Subsequent to
debriefing of frogmen, periodic contact was maintained w/V.,
with the last contacting taking place in early 1963.

' Memo - Routing Slip to Mjr. McGowen
Note. Ref. p. 748
Agency wishes to use 748 for intro to another individual.
They need immed. reply on this. Discussion will be by

telephone between desk officers. Agency man leaves by plane
at 11:45. Ron Butler 4/19/66

HW 50955 DocId:32260836 Page 4


‘. “Vee: jana ‘no tes

Antonio Veciana #AC 64 3175

inaicates “408 Guin confiscated but still ‘have. ‘enthusiasm
to go forward. .Wishes to maintain contact. Says press
conference by A66.in Washington probably mistake since-it.;
made U.S. govt. also resp. :

- Attached info re press conference in Washington, D.C.
March 19, 1963

- Gave press release. signed by Veciana and Cecilio J.
Vazquez. (SNFE). Make point that actions independent of any’
U.S. agency, not mounted from U.S. soil, but attempting to
show ability, courage and -Strength > to overthrow communist
govt. of Havana.
W/V. at conf. were Dr. Herminio Portell-vala of Wash., DC
and Luis Felipe Anany, Sr. of Wash., D.C.
Remarks by either Veciana or Vazquez at press conf.
indicate they regard it as improper to criticize any
department of the U.S. govt., but one (V or Vazquez)
felt that the U.S. policy during the Cuban crisis in
October 1962 Cone eares another Munich.

-. Msg. to (or from?) Mgr. J.A. Wathington
Major AIS
OIC, USA OSD Field Def. #1

April 1963 a .
List of aliens served w/ prevention of departure
v's name.included.

V limited to Dade Cty.

HW 50955 DocId:32260836 Page 5


ANTONIO C. VECIANA BLANCH

3rd PARTY INF

1. FBI Report, dated
Alpha 66, Internal

Nov 62 from San

2. CAS Msg 895, dated 1 Jul 63, subject: Plans of Two Cuban Exile
Groups to Infiltrate a Team Into Cuba.

3. US Army Report, dated 10 Jun 66, subject: Antonio Veciana Blanch,
2p. Report contains CIA info on subject.

4. US Army MFR, dated 25 Apr 66, subject; Veciana, 1 p. Report has
CIA info on subject. © : 5 :

5. FBI Report, duplicate of Item 1 above.

6. FBI Report, dated 12 Oct 62 from San Juan, subject: Operation Alpha 66,
Internal Security - Cuba, Neutrality matters, 3 p.

7.. FBI Report, dated 8 Aug 62 from San Juan, Subject: Operation Alpha 66,
Internal Security - Cuba, Registration Act - Cuba, 6p.

8. FBI Report, dated 30 Sep 65, subject: SNFE, 1 p(p #3).

9. FBI Report, dated 12/22/64 concerning Blanch, 1 p. ae
10. FBI Report, dated 22 Oct 62, subject: Same as 6 above, 3p.
1l. FBI Report, dated 4 Mar 63, Miami, Subject: Same as Item 6, 5p.

12. FBI Report, ated 6 Feb 63, Subject: Comandos L66, Inc., Internal
Security - Cuba, 3p.

13. FBI Report, dated 4 Feb 63 from San Juan, Subject: Alpha 66,
Incorporated, (A-66 Inc.), Internal Security - Cuba, Neutrality
Matters, 4p.

14. CIA Mag dated 271759Z Dec 62, Subject: SIGMA II - Alpha 66, 2 p.

15. CIA Msg dated 081509Z Dec 62, Subject: Possible Imminent Anti-
Castro Raid on Cuba, 2 p.

16. CIA Msg dated 081509Z Dec 62, Subject: Pirate Ship Attack on
Cuban Coast, 3 Dec 62, 2p.

17. CIA Msg dated 111729Z Jan 63, Subject: EDDIE MOR, 2 pg.
18. CIA Msg dated 121900Z Nov 62, Subject: Alpha 66, 2p.

19. CIA Msg dated 162218Z Nov 62, Subject: Alpha 66, 2p.

HW 50955 DocId:32260836 Page 6



NW 50955

VSV ase ae we iF auys T

. Ss. Soureé Dossier of Veciana (T) revd. fr. AUTOBO
, : ". by EPIDEMIC on 11/29/63...

List of Documents from V. File - 1/30/64

To:. USAFAD

Control # Clas. .No. Copies Description of Doc. i Doc.

FD #0297/63 sc 1 Carbon cy, ltr. audition 10/22/6
(SD-S217-62) (c) re: A-66 _
FD $0297/63 1-.°. Draft of contact w/v. 11/1/62
(line crossed : y . i
out) c I Photo cy, FBI rept. A66 11/14/6
FD #0197/63 sc 1 Carbon cy, ANTBG Msg 103 1/16/63
(SD-S15-63) fr. King
FD $0297/63 sc 1 Ltr., USAOSD, Re: A66 w/1L 1/29/63
(SD-S28-63) incl: Thermofax cy M/R
(USADSD/8458) Re: Ct Rt - Ao VA Be (cont)
dtd. 1/23/63
FD #0297/63 sc 1 Carbon cy ANTBG Msg. 127 3/31/63
(SD-S86-63) fr. King
ce 1 Carbon cy Msg. for 4/1/63
Washington to ACSI
(line crossed : :
out) c 1 Thermofax cy, rept. on A66 undtd.
FD #0297/63 Ss 1 Carbon cy, CAS Msg. 895 7/1/63
(SD-S195-63) fr. CAS

Docld:32260836 Page 7


7 Veciana. notes : “Page 5

from Veciana to Joe Kent, ‘Kent Associates, PR
ay
a 3/30/63 (in? Spanish) from Miami.” :
3/15/63 > » from Pittsburg, Pa.
(re travel? - Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles mentioned)

12/27/62 (in Spanish) from Miami

Note with address of Luis Duany : .
2244 Wash. Ave. ‘an
E Silver Spg., Md.. ‘585-7448
w/note: “" Washington will contact. V. at the above address:
: a "Mr. Conway" will contact him @ 1100 brs.”
22 Jan. 63.

-Classified doc. - Mail control record
#0297/63"B"
From: | 2. aT :
Dt. Revd: 11/29/63 : ’
File: . Dup 748 :
Summary: SD-586-63 ANTGB Msg. 127, c cy, dtd. 31 Mar. 63,
2 pgs. - nothing follows.
“Note - transferred to Hq.

-FD #0297/63 "B" - SC - 1 - carbon copy ANTBG Msg. 127 from
King SGD King. Exclusive for Boucher (underlined in red)
AUDITION (C) AUTOBOAT(C

Vv. called Kent from Miami on 3/31. Said he received

notice from U.S. Dept. of Justice - Prev. of departure.
Requests Kent's assistance in coming to San Juan. Will

appear before Mr. Savage, Rm. 215, Immig. Hq., on 4/1 w/request
to come to San Juan. Aware Kent wants. Menoyo to come to

Miami, but states Menoyo does-not wish to leave base.

Vv. will remain at tel. until he. hears from Kent.
No promise given; request advice.

V. now aware desire Menoyo come to Miami.
Assisting him may convince Menoyo to come.

At bottom:

Grover C. King
Lt. Col. AIS SD-S86-63

NW 50955 DocId:32260836 Page 8


From:

Revd. :.

File: :

Summary:  Ccy, letr, subj. - - Assignment “of code number
(Vv), lL pg., dtd. 1/30/63, SD-527-63
Nothing follows. .
Note: beac cheethe to Aq. : .

=1/30/63 - Assignment. of Code #

To: cmding Ofcr
USAOSD (9874), Wash., DC

2 DUP 748 assigned to V.

Signed: Grover C. King
Lt. Col., AIS
FD #0297/63"D" Commanding SD-527-63.

-Ltr. 1/29/63 from J.E..Boyt, Col., Infantry, Commanding,
U.S. Army Operational | Survey Detachment

To: Chief AUTOBOAT, San Juan Q

ya

l. Mr. Phillip Conway (Capt. Arms) and Mr. Harold Parker
(Lt. Col. Drashpil) met V. on two occasions, 11/22 and 11/23.

2. ISR being conducted on Dr. Duany, since he met Conway
and Parker. V. says he would not be returning to PR for
at least 60 days.. Intends to spend month in NY and go from
there to Chicago. . Was given the Jackson telephone No.
“Aside from a sympathetic audience, he was given no
promises and was told only, that we would look into the
possibilities for release of the boat. We would expect to
be in periodic contact with him on that matter and you will
be informed of any significant developments. Parker and -
Conway only identified themselves as 'interested parties.’

3. "AESI has expressed interest in exploring the possibilities
for assistance to V. in order that the potential of the group
can be exploited for intelligence purposes. You will be
informed of any recommendations or directed courses of
actions as appropriate."

FD #0297/63 USAOSD/8458 "C"

HW 50955 Docld:32260836 Page 9


Veciana notes -

Attached: 2

1/23/63,

Contact wiv.

~Memo FR. : Re:

1. Two ‘members of USAOSD (using assumed names) met w/Veciana
on 1/22. Purpose of meeting was primarily to gather
details on a boat, used by org., which had been confiscated
by U.S. Customs. V. was also queried on te capabilities
and mission of the group, his role, and what assist. might
be provided org. : .

‘2. Background of Vv.

3. V. said. purpose org. was to cause war in Cuba by conducting
raiding ops., est. guerrilla groups in Cuba - to harass and
destroy troops and‘strategic facilities as to make populace :
aware that overthrow poss. Envisions internal Cuban uprising
thru external Cuban refugee action.

Does not. desire direct U.S. participation, has no political |
aims, other than to overthrow Castro. This is reason V.
did not cooperate with other refugee groups, and why they
did not desire to’work w/CIA, because aims would be
subverted to political ones.

Claims several‘military bases in Caribbean. Bases manned by
small groups w/mil. experience. Also had assets in Cuba. :
Maintain Hq. in PR, Miami, and NY and plan to establish
offices in Washington, Chicago and LA.

4. Latest plan to collect funds for purchase of eight boats
for use in their raiding activities.

Already have four boats. Need boats, food, radios.
Will purchase transceiver equipment.

5. V. gave doc. rez: Customs-seized boat.
Boat owned by Cuban-American who is not member of org.
Boat worth $2000. Supplies and equipment aboard ~ 10 M-1
rifles w/ammo., food, fuel, 10 watches, kw generator. Total
value about $8,000. :

6. Requested assistance in release of hoat. Pleaded for funds
(10,000) and more freedom of movement.

Signed,
William C. Arms

Capt.
LA desk

HW 50955 DocId:32260836 Page 10


NW 50955

Veciana notes

1/16/63... FD $0297/63

ay

“S$ Msg. .ANTGB 103

From King SGD King. Exclusive for Boucher (underlined in red)

1. 1/16/63 rcvd. from V. - A66 plans eight commando-type
actions within next 60 days. Raids by 5-man commando parties.
Two will be demolitions men.

2. Ordered 12 fiberglass boats - 18 ft. @ $2000 ea. Three
delivered already. Remainder within 45. days.

3. Has 1,000 lbs. C-3 explosives w/time-fuse pencils,
60 submachine guns,. 40 machine guns, 400 hand grenades.

4. Will depart PR 1/18/63 for Wash., DC. Requested AUTOBOAT
furnish him name of someone to see in reference to getting
boat released (confiscated 10 or 11/62).

5. Request AUTOBOAT be sent name or agency for V. to contact.
-Draft of contact w/Veciana 11/1/62 ;
FD #0297/63 "F"

Jeff W. Bocher
Colonel, GS
Chief, Collection Div.

Veciana contacted initially to contact two frogmen involved in
attack on Russian target. Meeting arranged. Capt. Hubbard and
Col. King in meeting. Discovered V. working w/SFNE, thought given
to consideration of utilization of V. for intelligence purposes

as Menoya has ISR from 1961 and known to have contacts in Cuba.
Picked up ISR from CIA 11/2/62. V. gave Army two rifles, ammo. -—
taken from Russians. Operation discussed but stymied by lack of
clear policy on actions against. Matter brought to higher es
levels; i.e., General Landsdale.

Some discussion of possibly passing info to CIA for their
recommendation. This suggestion turned down by Landsdale, who
felt CIA, when informed, then took over op. Also in no better
position to determine national policy.

Persons involved in discussions - Col. Boyt, Col. Rolfe, Cols.

Albro and Boucher, Col. DePuy of Special Warfare and Generals
Lansdale and Leonard.

DocId:32260836 Page 11



Maal Veciana notes© peer eee reece tee cecreeereee Page 9

Meeting-1/22 and 23 indicates poss. of exploiting A-66 if they
can successfully run raids into Cuba and infiltrate island.
Approval: must be obtained and must be. in line with national policy
Next step will then be develop further rapport; complete
coordination w/DCSOPS should be effected to assure max.
intelligence collection and operational application.

Prepared by: Lt. Col. Drashpil 7
Coord.: Maj. Swatford, Capt. Arms.

Boat - Sigma - Raimundo Molina Gonzalez

Pat Harris (Capt. Hubbard) contacted Nazairo, Banos, V. 3/31/63
Menoyo (DUP 749) told not to come to Miami

Milford P. Hubbard V.. told AUTOBOAT can't help him gain

Capt. A-1s permission to enter PR at this time.
Not able to send rations to Menoyo camp
yet. Requested assistance in prep.
of statement re: JFK crackdown on
raids. Expressed feelings of good
fortune they had found agency they
could trust.

4/1/63 Harris met V. and Banos.
Menoyo and Mugult at Williams Island base camp. .Since
Harris told them to remain there, they may form opinion
Harris was aware of pending British raids and had placed
them in position to facilitate capture.

Examination of weapons captured in 1 Cuba - doubtful group landed.
Weapons could have been obtained elsewhere.

HW 50955 DocId:32260836 Page 12
