# 180-10145-10371

## Page 1

180-10145-10371

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

3111150

DCA Filles i Drests

Jones, Moris Heary: To pertinent information

Track, Pulard Lyril: No pertiet information

sutkarly, toph:

defirmation Report 40- 00-4-3169910 Sane de sepoet in 201 fele

Mit, DelenE. And Marter, Miller H.

Information Pepe No. 00-4-3169975: Leport of beformation of.

tained dusly pered of lyguet S-4,1960. My U1.5. Muciness.

woman. Who, In Yalta, wehead converation of 2 Anewes

men wis she later recognized (ror surpaper reports i,

ploto) As Metchell! Master Who had just defected.

Halperts, Ташие I: Containe rely upriates fite steer

se Helpera de Cuba. Yo desect CIA CAntact. Mo lafo. 1eU55R

SECRET

180-10145-10371

---

## Page 2

ACA fulls (cont.)

3111151

Ricardelle, Уве

-10/3/60 Memo, Cief, Support Branch to Chief, FI/Plans/ISR;

R: Ai tree sequent if 9/18/68 re Richardelle - Files reflect is

pricent cortact; c0/00 Field as duen adused of sevrce interest

-Ilss Tens, Chief. Boston tuld Office to Chi, Contret Aursion;

Re: Request for saf. thR for pepse of foulitating contact.

-1/15/k3 Yees Chef, Bratin Affice (Capt D. G. 'tell) firm Chef.

Cratect Duren; RE: Backgruad oR A (lace 41076) from os files

wheel date track to 1958-Induestes no red of say other comprect

of aquey chaving an interest is subject.

- Reput 00 -A-3, 269, 279 if info developed during witial derefing

on 1/18/63. Petude details in Selloureg sweet areas:

1. Motuatior to defect to USSR

2. Initial contact W/USSR

3. Asswal in U55e

4. Wetter declaration of intest to hone a Sor. utizen i sube quent

Sorret follow-up

BE social netites durg thei stay is Meow

8. Readerce controls, costs i martenance

SECRETI

-9124/u3 Memo, Chef, Personel Security Duros, DS to Cf Catact Auror;

I RE: to jection flon FBI. to proofed uterogation of subject IRialle-

---

## Page 3

Reccardelle (Cort.)

-1/20/u8 Meno, Chief, Breten Offer to Chef. CA i Atta: 2/u35R (Doley);

Re: Attached results if lst debrepeng session (11063) nolete drubt ae

to peasability of furtter desrefuge as July. has sutritted appeal t state

Rept. to segain 4.5. citizenip is thefore his stry seens well-scearsed

- suggests an independent townew with its were as... "Here is

a feling that much good formation is worlable as a sisult of thei

Maidence in the HISK. It will be difficult to get it fron dee

wuss of deo appeal you etyenchp but she, set breng unfinted

With the same probles, may we willing to till all.

- some Mess of rep. that is sadly available for citie i sittin.

to speratessel support data would it lot of living details i farily

budgets, medical lave, concuner goods, press uty plans? leghway..

new castruction, public it-uty takeptation seton i We costols,

rectucted ald, ate.

safess nalexia TO Hated 10/22/16; RS: Ketter recewed ty

2.2vachasaxco.a

sue yor sort Wizen who had been R's sent door nughtr.

-4/19/63 Meno, lief, Beaten Fueld Office to Chief, Intact Duesion.

Reflects intact / Ron 1/1563; preliminary serening wittent to

thoroughly defrief R.:'

SECT

---

## Page 4

D*J

Hesiter, Lobet E

Fille reflects:

- Corespondence tween Petiter and Tanned H. Raid III of the Lakd

Duelopment exporation

- List of loan! Reteation Atres from N.I. Heater

pret 60. 8-3.232,18; Bate of Dith: 81 14/12; EE: Xenenged Seitfie

Kerael Lastitute of Plymerged Zuttie - NIIPP

action was

- Demo fem 10/59 le Rebater's defection i White any attempt tess wey

sit regarding te defection

Mach; Aquel 1960 re Seeters deate to retarx to US. é Rac

interment ricept of lettes fion Libite to His father Rands intertier to see

Hette While in Borict MaLE in MaY 1960.) Suller mens continue

through лу 1962.

-6/20/62 Memo, Chef, Contact Dinsion, Ee/USSK to Chief, Fitzbugh office;

R: OR wild lit full debreing on Is wok; see and li ore is intuited

in partiesting

3111153

-1/23/69 Memo, Diretor, DCS to Chief, Pitaling Field Office

- So dussion of Is is intested in beeping track of revelr side one

of the riterputers who aceleted him in the USSR has now tea acogeed

to the UN.

subspent me use note tebetes wherabouts chet do net the duct cottect

---

## Page 5

Hester, Roht. E. (corl.)

{+7-4/28/62 Menro, Menxo, Stewart, I1., Pütehligh F.D. to SILES; RE: Case

38216 - Muragemeits have been nesde to detef Hebatte i 12/62

of O0K.

r. M. Acheraft,

- 4/2/62 Mens, Cheek CD/06 to. Chip Personal Sunty sure, 0s;

IE: 'uld representaties report of vital interse laot attacked.

3111154

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Webster, Robet

CI/01 File

SEGRE

shots report of toret hasment i set Delhe dewing prit of Tely

23÷24, 1962 dose on request of Rudy Balalites, 5R/6

the the picion of Liking:

nom am

Acting Chief, Irrent Brakel

Asserument i Evaluation Steff.

3111155

SECRET

6.

---

## Page 7

DC.А Files

WH736

Information Lepret N6. 00-A 3214522 CAL 2610

Information from Lubra sounce se Jones employment in luce

fron 6/61 to 7/62.

Track, Kelsed Cyst

WH69

Unline passenger manifects some are not legible;

appears to show travel of

3111156

SECRET

---

## Page 8

satiser with Watte P. Haitigan 3111157

bate: Juse 13,1978

Intiiewed dy: Pikey toldenied and Betay Nol

A copy of the samites litter was gives to Ye. Nattigan Neit

its had it and indiested that the understood the costeites.

I Th. Hetigar was guer a copy of CIA + 435-173-4

wheek issists of a cove letter dated 12/12/63 for Eobeet I

Kampill to the Cheeps of SR And We ad to the Chef of Stator,

a mero dated 11/25/13

WiLL Was

сах сысенену

I's assis puin intruet is the tery Oswald. Thee downest

sued as the chases jop one quettonig

H Haltigar stated that in 1963 the sewed as thief of the Jothet

section of the Pals station under

лым. the explained

Get lacists was also an offich is the Pans station but ile

5uля

иад dit-outs to make contact with others in the Pals station.

Due to the nature of this arrangementS lasasen frequently

Whole infosal mered suck as the ole te #435-173-A Wck

were the pied aling to the station. There men Would the

i younded a headswaters, generally in

y saltigar. In

this particular instuce, Hal, who seived under alligan,

parace the lette i Headquarters beause Hallan WAs I

the tissital at the time.

H baltigan explained the following portons of lasaid mers:

-"REDWOOd" represents the Soviet Kurdon.

- The 'I Branch" was the Speational Support And Plodiet Brach

for the soret Dursion. Is mair furtion wits tie collection of

8.

21

---

## Page 9

SA

3111158

information. lancer was bef of the b braked until his transfl

to PAlLs.

-китит was the cryptonym for the office of Operations which

It unrestly nows as the DCD. If the CIA wished to contact a

sturming defets, it would have made costact though this ffice.

Hore, bettgan stated that it protably was not stand and spela-

ling produce to interew retursing depectors due to e vailty

of factors suck ad a lack of proper follow-up incastes a the

Jolt that these lathe would lave fallen into the juredition

If the FBI.

-DACID was the uyptoryn for the state repytiment. Haltiga

uxplained hat it was not nausual that lassor would have sera

I start sensitmeat despatch th Oswald as it would love bees

nonte to ree tet off state Repartmest memos.

- let's milletion of lang diselled the Osal as h

Simone 1960" as stated in the merry, must have beek a sled

wear the slopsse

ake. Instead, is pray should that t of 1902

- BI refera to desgraptie iformation.

- IOVER

was a cryptings for a came which was pitably

I business fun. KuDOVE was the cryptonyin for the DAP.

H. Hattigen explaced that is paragraped 3,

note mean

that he was phasing out of the ADP altogetill Sisterd, les

sucke to phasing out of the DoT referred sily to chee

Headquarters deugnsest wither DAP.

1022F7 was the legel Travelle program, Wherely they (te BAP)

gave cents hang to stret tee countries treatise sequile-

meet wied they reported seek to the laTer, thei setter.

9.

---

## Page 10

Use was the te which a peason pleked up in sure for.

With to tatuest glide whon the moussed He caine out of the lis

Is the sure of 1862 and des wife was permitted to for this some

most cater. Halt i did set belve the to de a cane who t

the couple was eventually disred as the mess fee. Maltagas

staird that it wild Haulel you Yound Oswald to ie allied to

lease the Somet tales as not mary

I soret uwer were perinted

to cause !

dung that time pelode

-Waltiger Wis pripes d is to the sefine to the bey story"

In the last lice of the mess. He fist stated that it sled chase

Ack a typsgiaphical un whick should have bees the "Oswald

lasted. Then it was posted out leat the sente all costille

to othe refle to Eswald which makes it walkely that

this with merly a typographies ero, the exped CoNNOR

With respect to the repeke. He could thut of a explanation

You the, nor did the see we spiat to tacase altec

itis polat.

3111159

Hagar recalled that te guwed in Parie for dee agriment

и taae, 1962 and tet laiden pistably arwed there is Septeake

of the same year. Haltiger stated that the had were eard ahe

sumere to the effect that Oswaed sad been wild try the CIA at

ay time. He felt that because of the assignmenter wither the

Agey, he would have ben is a position to taow of Oswald

und iven used in day capretty. I restined at the had isl

Se 1951-1955 and that Messes Files deen there from

10.

---

## Page 11

1955#1958 61959.

Ire 1158 uatel 4/61, Haltigan Worked In SR/I Whek

was speed Operations with the Soret UNER. sR9 was corpored

Of de pees at the take. He explained that Sello Was rapossible

for the Yeaal Travelers progras Wall halesed I.S. Utters and that

travelling to the Wish yader the proglars, he expussed the welf that

it was alret iposable for then not to have knows of Dawald

had had some wolvement with the Agery is this capacity

H. Haltigan essed that S119 WAR MAPLe IN MAINT it

wis wends whith they wept in the same MA ds Add fills.

If streone needed to CHow f a parl la ple ta weng wed,

they would ile atle to week it through the fles. Horse, Agery at -

sciation woulk not it betty spleted in a 201 pule, Wactead,

quateral formation would he stored. Haltege isplacked that t

201ми noument th peror cut not what the pelor t dos

11160

frmatter. A lase file would have a tits part mulater, suck as

"4-6, where the fust nunker reflects the coury or all of utte

and the second nuable refuss to the spee quation. In regard to the

weaklity of lace files, Hattiger steted that the area of pumary

witest i nepleted on a 201 file pening det and that it eat.

go to that itired to seek spectassal itoration.

When asked about the synquance of O/II t opening Osarlds 201

---

## Page 12

file Heligan repoided that is couldnt Mally say is the doe

not a What tIlSIt the drag it the tike.

Halteger was asked whethe it was possible to purge or indurdusts

He 201 ye and then unoving the petent insate for the

Case file. Haltigan stiled that he does not snow of the type of they

levented o the pistection of the flatton and stered that 5219 12

petitullar. was. nettulous. i its pete mariterance.

3111161

SECRETI

---

## Page 13

3111162

Laternew with marquete D. Stevens,

Wate: June 13,1978

lateneed by: Mekey Noldseth and betayhelf

Ts. Stolen was goer a eopy of the omniter little wherepos

she rad it and induated that She had no questernd conceing the

costests.

Me. Stevens stated that ile was implyed by the LIA frosk 1945

natel the stivernest

I 1968, susing Wales time she was augned

to the Senty Keel Self itis the Office of sewity the staled

that she Was spelleally aughed to the I porters of this staff. a a

reverek. Gentually, she had seouty is hee departnest Will

lad a wearing on the specyee yor asgaments, wut the ded not

haw. ary wind of supery autorty. using the late 1950's and

early 1960'3, she wolver that stefuld tawalds was willed of the

Afe of Sty ile Buce Sole And his deputy, Tock Rempey,

We led more minedate superisold

Ma. Steers adwered that te purpose of the office of scutty is

t ensure thet the geey is not penetrated. Its responsibilitter were

is conduct helground ivistigations on all potential employees and

to deal. with defectos ron oter counties is establating they bore

fides and the gating inmatos frosk there. She cad no unmediate?

melets of any dealings with Amercan deferee.

Ms. steers Was goer a copy of a 1031/60 Mentaldus to the Chef,

suety beach staff which she had writter on the subject of tere

'an defectors. Water reading the menandus, she adveed that st

Whetter there peshs had perctated the CIt and trous white ary

f then provested a suity sik, is the agedy. She stated that

---

## Page 14

SEGRET

3111163

Sile did utt at whether the compinets within its de i

would wave iler appuled that fler had ter opened is titt

indurduals mentored in this mens. The asked if she tere

Hak Egete, The stevers replied that ste tenew he and

worked with her perpterally.

In regard to ta 10/31160 me, M2. Stever was deked about the

significance of the live, "Several of the above refered t defectors

nave ter of unterest to LIA:". The attre refered is defectors"

scluded Sux H. Mitchell, Willian H. Martin, Yatest E. Ketster,

Xe Harney Oswald, tetero ducedelli, Vadimi Slotta and

neph Dutkawly. It Just Me Stevers stated that IO Whe of

interest because of the assass nation but when it was pockted out

to in that the mers was writter thee years hefore the renasira.

tiok, she stated that She could not recall the signyuance. I

stated that ins" indicated a muccellase us Office of seculty

file wheed would te Wild yor axything otte thas an unployee

file. She stated that a newspaper spung on a defecte would

have been cause to open a pile for future reference purples

Ms steers was shows a lopy of the 10/31159 Rept of State

telegia rezarding Oswalds defection and is offer to give the surets

information head diver the milita stace. T docume

in the origind, appeare in the fice of security's file is Oswald.

the steel stated that sile Old as scollect of wikin with the

Dswald lake unt afte the assaulation, an did She ted Wils

would les weived this downest in the affice of Securty. The tated

that she did ait to whethe the Is of would have it itie

reformation, wet she thought that they should chave clad it.

He Sterested that it one it wall we quing a as file.

---

## Page 15

SEGRET

3111164

Ma. sturns adwild that she call of is Agency utilization of Oswald.

She stated that she wived much in ratios reparding the Oswald

case and none of it ufacted an agedy conseets.

In gaid to the tales wurstigatis, the Stil is staked that the

were interested in anything that tild to LID In May Way. Wher asked

I lee LIt ad an peatial itut is lay Shaw, She responded theat

she walled notting sig inition with shaw sie than the fesse

'Wis stuck Tole wale. The ex placed that ties pliase must

'i's dilled Kennedy to his She dad to spite witte

walding seed Hell. Is: Stevens stated that she de as

aston takes ity the Agery. to ipede the Hallen investigation

in ary такли.

She scalled spladen a it of lie of thes

savestigator, but considered. It to have iver perfectly nonal

to have done so I light of ther satet in the Kennedy arrassatis

nadile 1410. She uster stated tet the Agesy would deve dees netally

cursed to se well i of assis spects ded My trie

suth the ETA.

He Sterers, was asked about in knowledge of the HTRINSUAl pro-

gram. She sued that Sle trew tet the Ife of Secity had

something

to do with the projilet, but that she lad no speefe isoledge

incing it

lure I of fle 351-164, the Affece of Secty file on Osled, Whe

shows to ta. Steers. The stated that she lad no recollectin of raving

pesed that file and noted that the handurting in the nurpaper

Upping at He Legmaing of the le was not we cur. She did weog-

meze shes netiale is ceing is some of the otte douments and wentfed

C5A. 849-1010. se hung an Afe of recity indice sach equest

SEORCH

---

## Page 16

SEGRET

that she Wad Ordered to Ur Mr sa Misixa Nicholaeona Oswald, Xec

Osweld and Marced Pulators ON 1011461. The did not will what

prompted this requed at this tike. The stated that the type of

file was maltailed in An Afice of scity file 108.

We stuen stated that in regard to the pret -austration westiga-

tion of Oswild, she had the all reups celiy for the office of secuty

3111165

SECRE

---

## Page 17

3111166

later with Tire Velmy Wince

Date: 6/28/18

etenerd thy Betay Molf and Dan Hardway

Tis. Vase was guer a lopy of the oreles lette which sle

rad.and. induested. Hat.se undesstood.

Are to her exployment With the CIA desing the peuod 1961-1964,

Mr. Vance stated that she wild cnplayed in a full-time capacity

an a cortet specalet in the has Angeles office of the linteet suri

sion of the Office of Operations until Tune of 1962. It that time,

She got manued and noved to beaver where she worked pat- tive

is a contact speccalet.

Sue stated that her reproutelter i this praction estalled inter:

weving people throughout the Lonnuaty Who had traveled owe ar

Sher asked how she became wall of the SUch pelor, she stated

that they saie to te attention lagly though reapp astills,

repessals.. ана налеки pubuations..

Most of tes leads were

developed on he or sather Her flose witto for Headquarters.

She adered that traveler were not wally intacted, pits to.

their departure. sure the Loatect Dueen would not doe aware of

their at that porat.

Ms. Vase stated while she, as a costact specialut, wit

not ay kind of infrimation firk der cortacts, she pumary sought

information Wat was not puble trowledge. Kith regard to photographs.

The adsed. Chet photogles of the worket ten wish tout sly thied.

to see if there were ay of witticted areas, meltaly utallatin, sie

sid protes appeared to the of interest, they were sent to Headquarter.

Attough the adored that she did not crow What happened. With tapect

to the plates at Headquarters, Me. Vacce sold that the photos would itintely

---

## Page 18

3111167

he seet hack to her, when pos she would setten the to the contacts.

Ma. Vance was guer a copy of FOIA De. # 614-261 WACK K

the 3/20/64 menrander to the FBI unforming them of the proto of tho

which was found in the CIA's fells. An the. Vance read the doesent,

In cranest was that it wadaning. She stated that she thei

no лнит of l costact with tiles

соки and Лажнан. Sie coled

semendu going to soling ibut could not resemble the nattle of

the costat. The also stated that she ld sell seld this pastellar

doment. The turks that these pusse probably care to tee

Atteation lose the sto Ageles newspaper a lot the readine

community. but she has as spelle meady as to the be the

surrouding this contact

Me. Dance adviced that, is segaid to photographs, the Agency Was

not interested in touet attractions wut is photographs that night.

perude apration of a military, seeitiue a geographical

nature. Then saked whether there were ay segulatihe gowning

Contact Aweston contacts and collection, He Vane replied that

they ded have uteret guidelves fu people and photglaphs. which

would have been in the your of mitter quineate that wee

periodically, updated. Hower, she could net well the speles

of tise requerements.

No. 'ance adeld that she ded not Manente why totographs were

takes Jee He Ke th Why the Ugly Wond it tept their.

She belers that she would have seit the plute to leadquatter wups.

they would have been werewed and Marked. to is for stuck to

Mes. Кланег.

Dole collectione regarding the for centudge of slides mcied by the Male

---

## Page 19

3111168

Liter telly) from the Klates s. Vace adold that she would

have prepared this and sixt it ts Headquarters. The don't resente

whetter Headquattes wee cortected be regarding the subetance of the

plotte. She then looked at a 4130/62. Zucentation Horn yor trapice

Matrial. creeking the ate-mentored intidgle along with an

stacked disig decenting the cratest of the cartrudge. She advised

that the be hegler office whild wave pupared this thet tied in te

inteet with More. Kanel. Is light of the fact tet the left spelfudly

notes the pressace of an enthust glide I some photos, Mo. Vasce

was arted whether pesturest guides were a speele uquetent tit

plots clution. He repose was negative.

I copy of a photograph marked 11-12546 was shown to Me. Pall.

the advised that the categocer cheted aling the bip side of the plotgraph

are pitably fling syster sefulnes but she stated that sile

Wes not pamelar with the manner in wheed plates were filed

r referened it Hadquarters. Is to the signeese of the particles

photo, Ma. Vance stated that she does not kaow why they would wave

copled this phots. tales only wass would have been the fact that

Hee was a Mare and teefre pressbly consuction in the sackground

At this ports, Ms. Vance said, 'Ike on waith ever deserus

Oswald in that picture? Some one mut have spent a lot of the

ging trough photograpte.."

Ms. laace was shown a lopy of. WA-63368. She idered that it

looked like a telegran from the lostaet Support A winion at

Masquarter to te Marlagles fice. She stated that Sile wed

nuttucontaeted cly aye. n the Agery regarding the outta ding

in general

---

## Page 20

SERRATI

3111169

... Da seged to Laformation Leprit it 00-B. -3, 212,967, a report of. her

contect with have and Maras, Is. Vance advesed Iat this I

He standard four wed for is interrew repot and that it was

soutere not to name the some is sull a downest as it was

routinely desertrated to otte agenus the sole's name would

It wald se a transettal i pire sheet because these wes internal

dscuments. She also stated that the reavon that the photos weet mus-

tioned in the interew repot Was die. to the different interests of the

peple receving this type. of report

Mhs. Vase stated that she had never been contacted regarding

her costact. With Kaner and Neman Old the phot costaling swald

by the CIA, the FI or te. Harren Commission de futter adied

that this was the fist time i had wee iles trought to dee attention.

---

## Page 21

CP 3111170

A memordsour dated. May 25, 1978, from B. Hugh Joras,

Chief, lanterntellegence Stoff to the Special liestant to DDO for

Eternal Seright (Atta: Ah. Nortect Sheparek) segarding

the ASC A's requento for i/ration of April b, 1978 And May 12,1978.

in standed speating predes with repet to sepatreating

Amies defectors stated the following

1) Exey. 1 of '11 returning. h.s. deputes were interrewed

by the CIA, puraily. Ay the predicted or Domitic Cortacts

2) Tee. was no poley to debuf string Anuas redefetes

fron the USSR. the CIA selled IN ta FIT Yor reporting

1. the resuelte

of atewrews it may have conducted is correction with it.

responsibility for laternal security matter.

3) Hue are no manualo or regulations fr the peud 1958-19L3

Nich speefuelly addied the sulyet of U.5. defectors

---

## Page 22

SEGRET

3/2/78

(2)

893-9102354 2. 3/28/62 MFR, Suget :

421.923

(V01.5!)

1/2/64 Memo for: Aest Wif of Staff, latel Dept. f Arry, Atta: Du. of See.

sedj. Jeet. In NCR re Duthanies i Sloboda

Info lovesteally same as that contaiod in 893-911

1/16/65.

986-92°-BC

(Usd. 53)

Article entitled "Solose to Ispere Defects Study A Rot S Allen ind

Paul Scott.

188-927-BD

(401.53)

1/2/65 Dispatch, Clife Al Stations From Chif, KUDOVE ;

Re: Selected exuppte fion V. C. tatimory, pertinest portions

of which have cheer side-lied.

3111179

SECRET

z9.

---

## Page 23

3/15/78

3111171

1249-1010 Indes Serich Request

. f. 10/9/61.t2:

1. Oswald, Marina Nicholacuna

2. Oswald, tee

3. Plusakova, Marina

, Raymond).

N/A .

FNU Card - Mrs.

M5-1164 - Hee Hawey

1250-1010

.. 9/28/61. lip. or Marena Nicholaera Oswald, nee Suratera

1206-1018

7|29/64 MFR ; subjet : MarkE. Martia

RE: 7/14164 Ketter wetter Ay M7rs. Mark 2 Marter to latia,

Moneow Ne 15. gut contait w/defectors, tretudig Iswrld

---

## Page 24

3/1/78

/2d Ridiciden

3111173

/ 12. ADP. Respince to State, dated 11/21/60 (DO? D: 6003- seeret)

• 13. SAERNAl CIA Req: for Spensay of 201 fele, 12/9/60 (scret).

r 14. Hate InD of Courisation dated

1/26/61 (0u6)

15. State Statuetion A -273. 4/13/61 (040).

: 16.4.5. Duspatel 806, 5126161(040).

29, 1/1/61 (04D)

.:18: AFB. 82181, 1/13/61 ((af.).

- 19. Internal LIA MFR, 4/18/51 (seret)

.. 20.45. Respatel 311, 10/12/61 (ou0).

21 I NS Mare Cheel Pea 1215/61.

22. Navy THessage. 20191/RB/ 3, 3/3/62 L(oRk.)

23. DNA 1624, 4/26/62

24. Унирари Серрад, Xe Post , 6/9/22

25. 0B A. 20883, 9/1/62 (A)...

Cep. of Tate Fai

- 26 ABA 51407. 9/10/63

[Kep. of. Tas. P Hacty]

.+ 27: RBA 52355, 9/24/63.

28 ABA 65115, (# unlear,), 1/13.

29: ABA 55.774. 1118/63.

r. 30. I.A. Summary Heport. A Atturtes of 0 in M.C. dated 153164.

While you notes on Bully file illude soire of above, it i trovely

not.

same le, trough. there are many pee-dockes does In it.

See nest page.

GEG

---

## Page 25

3/1/78

(3)

3111174

Secret. Eye Caly).

1) Second problem i that pred dy 565-910 (i VOl. 26 of 403 201)

212/64 Memo for: Chief, LI/ REA; RE: DORs: WHile in 0'S 201 fle

1. Rechine iting of does. offerally rersed is ibering in

0s 201 file war reg.i Is attached. (It is not att. the

actual machine work of the type was begun 1963,

but a few itins of plous dates were also scorded

2. 'I conquite of the does physicelly arable in the 201.

file i the rended a weing in the 20 fele das shores

that 37 does. Which should ce in 201 file are not wail in

it this total i made up. o

adeepateles.

I memoranda. from. FBI.

I CSIT.

2 SD doc.

25 cables.

Va coratise of

3. Mackie nquises for this rose dave not bees made

Handwritten note: The keep loady i last Vl. 8. 05.201.

Aкови...

"He ley date (untilled, but unclear ).

SECRET

---

## Page 26

Bitay Helf

5/31/78

Refector Repatrots to. US (1958-63)

3111175

1/20/20. Kens, B. Huge Jorar, Chip, CI Steff to Special.

RE: HISCA Request for information

sa response, I staff has completed a serew of files of 117

N3. persons who had defected to the ASSR Witween 1958 ad 1963

and who have sace strused to the A.S: Keew shows:

- Is proceduse for systratee LIA debreling of the persons;

- Intate appear. to he haced on opportunty and uncumstance

Only 10 of the IT pessa. wave had catted with IIA as follows

1. Thomas Moradar (201-094348)

- Hant to USSR in 1947; left USSR in July 1960.

- Seres of bitererews. by CIA in 12/60 which revealed contact

With. KGB.

- No subequent citact with Subject

2. Joseph Marshell: (201-290220).

- Employed in Littuarea in 192...

- Arrested by Sorets In 1945; released froz pressa 1x. 1956.

- Repasted 155K. bR 12/9/60..

- Rebrefed by BCD. for portive intelligence; also chy SEDurson.

- Mo contact after. 5/61

---

## Page 27

2

3. Tomaro Sgove. (201-289973)

- Weat to USSe with parents in wally 1930's; depasted in 1960 for lone.

- Contacted initially by FGI..

- Rebufed by LIA n Rose I Tax -Fret: 1962 after TOA granted for

pepice of procable use agachet other stallate setarking ros

USSR and porcible Inowledge of operaternal leads I USSR.

- No contact after 5/63..

3111176

4. Tany Mackles: (201-761570)

- Keat. to NSSR I 1931; worked there as transter i marsed a Soviet.

Who allegedly was officer is NEVD A Red Any Latelegee He late died.

- Returned permarcatty. to Us in 1965.

- sinterewed for doves cent is reporting source in the pleased.

ta biavel to USSK in 3/13. Detrufed aftar trip in. 5/13. She reuested

no further contact.

S. Sonia (201-239896) and tired Asianian (201-143598).

- Renounced U.S. citizenches and enegrated to Armenca ix 1948;

returaed. to.U.S. in 1964.

- Rebrefed. ly. DCD.

lo. Jack Muralsky; the tural. (201-063001).

- Reparted GO USSR 11934; reariaced U.S. Mca

- Repritedly imprised in USSR C4. 1947 Recepting to stee

to U1.5.

SECRET

- reward on puss 1955; meane tradiate or sort informa-

ton Вичеди.

---

## Page 28

3

6. (cort.)

- Retensed to 1.5. ix 1966 as innyrait.

- Saterrewed Ay. BCD In 1973.

s. Yeteso Riccesidelle: (201-289238)

- Beat to USSR Ia 1959.; retursed to U.S. In 6/63 as immigrant.

- Retriefed by DCA in Brotei.

8. Harold Litrynell (201-275418)

3111177

- Neat to USSR Ma Geckostovakea a 2/27/58.

- Reparted USSR on. 6/29/59.

- Unitengly interewed. ly CIA office of US. Inbarcy in leptshagen.

- Suiet may have been interrewed. by Des structine after his

retars to 1.5

9. Robert Edward hekter (201-265:172).

- Disappeared in Moscow in 9/59 afte participation with Rand

Relopment Cop. in Miscow World tel; Kenounced U.s. atizenstip.

DR 10/12/59.

- Returned t. 4. 5. a nineglant on 5/20/62

- Detrefed cy various elements of CIA.

SECR

---

## Page 29

3/2/18

830-358-1

(N01.49)

890-433

892-909

893-910

-SEGRET

Betay Wolf

3111178

9/1/64 Ketter, Ranken to Aili, requesting confunation that.

CIA reed. 8 State Dept. commusations whck were

mexterred + 590-252 (36/64 Meno, Helius to Racken

se Lap. in LIA'S Possession RE. LHD Dur to 1/22/63) - abs part

These does all do Uket IN Bulky 61.27 XARZ-22595. w/up.

tox of 3/3/62 Mavy Hurage 20197/18/3 whill ie listed as

unsulable in file but available at National Actives

Do new. tafo: in thes doe:

Re Toschen Joester

This dee la CD 1532-

10/2/64 MFR, Subjeet: V.C. Keport - Lafo, on Dutkai i Sebode,

Who were mentioned to NIR as shaving thes altacked to

Kiny het. Matto in Hides. puer to then spections in sumner

of. A60. His no, esteed was casufled, ass mutakealy

Messed

mentals the HCR

10/2/64 Memo for Chief, CT liaison from Se/ CIR Sely: sap.

on Artearily. i Sloboda

1. Dathasey- meations perciled motations in 201 file suggesting liny

assignment may have included stell fusctions of stre kind.

2: Bot defers had preroes KGB connections.

3. Immed. cause of defection appedes to de Bit scity invertizitions.

Attachinents

1) Case summary 2-62:2 ox Atharley.; repared by Soductio Braced, Itll

DUrsoR, HQ HSARBUR, APO 403, US FORCES.

SEGRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

3/2/78

624 1

873-410(st.)

2. 3/28/62 MER, Suljeet: [24 Ileg. 4r Is for interiw n/ Pu. Scotoda

121.923

(Vd1.51)

112/64 Memo for: Art Wif of Staff, Wal, Dept. of Arry, Atta: Qui. of See

sago. decentally same as that conteroed in 893-910..

486-92 - BC

(VAl. 53)

Paul Scott

Article entitled "Stone to Ispse Defects Study y Rt. Cler 11d

188-927-BD

(101.53)

2/2/65 Dispatch, Cheffe of All Stations From Chef, KUDOVE ;

Re: selected excepte fion N.C. tatemory, pesterest portions.

of which have been side-lived.

3111179

•l.......-..

SECAET

---

## Page 31

RomL

3/8/78

961-927-46

(Belky Vd. 51)

962-927: AH

2/9/12 Ketter, Featuwald to hist to Du., LIA

requets ary rerds piraining to debufing" of AHD ty OCt

ekalf. of CIA after he retour from USSe.

Refice to elai statement a8 1/4171 lefre him Sety of thespaper

Editors in N.Y.C. (M.Y.T. 4/15/71, p.30) that ... f there is a charce

that if a prate czen travelleng aroad was deguised

fouge mefornation that tas the use to the ameras polcymate.

we are cetocaly going to try to interew him"' Mussterated

sites that hiD appean to fe suck a peron.

Herstuwald

Lesprase to 2/9142 letter; Refere to tetimory of Melose! Helit.

repre N. C., stetig at. .51A10...

*Thes testimory, under oath, made clar that thes Agency

noe contacted Oswald, wttwrewed him, tatket with his,

immuxusted of chen duectly a in ady other markel

this testimy is still maled; trefre, the info you request.

does not exist. "

3111180

ilj Vol. 51)

969-927-AD 4/11/12 Vetter, Bensterwald to Anque M. Fallerner, Asd te DU., CIA

stetes that

_2/18/12 letter

set conclusions based upon stat

muss of persons other then yourself." I nike for chis

(tune's) pretion w/ respeet to these recods

970-927-AP

Le 401.51)

4/13/12 aft of Ketter, 1.11. Thermes to Fente weld.

Keepose to 2687 4/1/12 dette-that Cette of 218/72 is a sumple SEGNE

---

## Page 32

318|78

970-927-18

(coxt.)

declerative statement in the bet precible authouty that thes.

Адену never shad any costact a sield that, therefore, the

no. sought y you in your little of Feet. It does not exist i?

never ded exist."

1801. 52)

976-927AV. 1211164 Artele in Hach Pret Intelled entetled Refectors Ker Led

Ex-Agests".

RE: Sloboda 2 Datkarez

1031-405

(Vol.

12/5/66 MFR

3111181

-.--....

---

## Page 33

SECHEF

3/10/78

1038-405-B

(C.D.984)

5119/64 htte, Me Coreto Rankin; RE: Enarule of affedaut t

He effect that WHO wad not agent, implyce ti infrmast of CIA.

what affidavit

-anca me. o Diale alle o Maude Dhaul del tene ablata delineeeeee at

.O.........................................................

..............!..АНГІНІ СІ САЛІГАЮ!. •"..

...................................................0010100!0

.......

•...-e---------------------IЕ...-=

---------------

3111182

SEGRET

---

## Page 34

3/13/78

1063-964-B

SECRET

6/30/71 Memo, DoRsanE. Patt C/I/REA to C/LI; RE: LIA

Da/s. Forded the X.C.

- States that CIA withheld no rep from Wh!.

some cafe. pereded ty Agency to lan unaurs laus i inst

available to the public.

1073-944-L

11345903

(N01.560)

relax.

A list if these seld i unreld. (as of 70) is aval in CT/RE A (dide).

2118 set for I Staff Her (Baue . , 113173).

-елнн Agencys contibution to ravestigation sy.C., components

involved suck as

WH "

- T.C. Lung

Mother

Mer. Staton: Dir Scott

Recca: Chief of I/RIA hacked up. dy/Dool, Hise. Hell 3, Paul

Hartman

"The Agencys corerage

of Oswalds acturtie at the 2uns. Is tuxi

later proved malable to the Haska Come.

3111183

2|25|70 Awpatch, US. MC. to CHiCK, NOMUSE/REH; RE Fouarding

-of pustrality file Mom YN.C. on 2H0

- 6VOlS.

1173-432-W

161.56 BULKY)

+1 20 628-991-71

- Rankin to Helns,

- ascing or aralyse

SECRET

33.

---

## Page 35

311/18

(:(131) 610-263

fiontelas, DDP,

3/18/64 Pere for.T.K.-Raskis A Sely.: Attele Alegag O was sxteurewed

Iy CIA. in Miscow, -

Repeats info in para 1. gf. 609:786.

states for neerd that "allegation caried in this pses report.

is uttaly unfounded as far as IIA ia coreerned.

Addtioral detalls for pusect y W.l.

a. lable → despstel ne in prra: 2.0 609-986.

b. Arteele alao ii Hurar Eento

attackments.

314/64 - Aurar weits

- lopy of 2108/64 artiele in Woth h: SU1

...... .a. . ......

3111184

SECAEE

---

## Page 36

SCORET

3/14/78

1188-1008

(V01.59)

9/18/15 Mens, Paul Hatrice to Chuf, LISteff; RE: Allegations

of LHO'S Connection NAgery; Ref: Tens of Caucatiok, Arr

Patter / Her. Hedgley i I ACI.: Atted 9/4/75.

1. Deno costeris 2 pto Wheel requene umments. It pt. Like allegation

made shotty after asser i let that hit Ald here consected i) agesy

the alleg. Me tally anforuded."

2. Feets se thes Matti au a followe

2: 1/29/13, ustructed ly. R.G. Recca te mate attrough dic o/a lguey

it His t detenue whether. Who led we de was by ley cructed

witt in daysury. Оена не. t

degue possible y, not. to accept shats of termedianes He esplaused le

b. Had checked Til Lided of IP tee RID or right of acrass. d

reckeked Main ever i found as red defined that which & ded

thaised defer plus itas integrated nto records system stace?

assass.). Notting i D00 need ladicating any ageny corset.

W40.

3111185

C. DLD - no sad in His files. Mangements made for me to

check teleph W/each ACA base n 13: Chef. if tac swuled

thei settes spite witter offices I was the adveld by need

of Wife ti designees ninet there dad bee no contect w10.

D. Then Wheeled W/ Aursiss D, 5E Air. $ LAS. Di's lab. Ops. Mray. (006)

-SECHEF

---

## Page 37

3114/78

1188-1000

r. Кла sunity. Receuck Setton (5) of 05: 1 had see. file checked -

no reord of 0.

f. Alto, Ces keepe no recs. 14 lite, I Cecked Hei S00, B, Cher

holdings - a word.

g.41 ny pere the chif of I. Steffé Admin Office called OP

i seed word that the was to red cr infloue o appleast for

unplay. named 1Hl.

1. Ucked Afice of tual Serees - ne nerd.

•i tourt letcon Staff - no reeod...

j. I steffe. Operationel Appeal thorp (CI/DA) - no record

K. Checks completed In 1217; seat sue mornal rot tolrea

рещунд. Checks made i stig Moult showied that 1H0 lad never

to thes effect wats.

commurusted to H.l.

3111186

the appropuste stations, s was tid, insits - neg

4. Muell Cree at D, I an Am, retire fum 1358, mught have

SEGRET

---

## Page 38

SECALT

3/14/18

1188-1000

(cort.

Save pt. Ies now chen nell ity: 2 CBS nuwsneK.

"Heuing stine dicer.

leage of. bils. suieet I dave peconally conuded teat there is valed

reavon ifor. ACNs latk of inteust in O at that tirke. 'He mould sucely

her chee costatted s Metrufed dy DCD had ce been to the HSSSe

É et. to tta US defore 1957/1958: Iiauee t Ik. S:Ul. ily Hetereus,

eesiety da, tepre tet tise de quit insies, i ea dle

.fr uyurtres 1n0. la tace days. phar degan is @19562 b4 the

end of that wwase there vere so shaxy penore travellng to? flos the

S. l. tet DCD war weapable of ticking to all of then tecefore.

a piozran. f seleturityi speifie torgt applicetilty wre in-

stiluted.

Is light of the alore, Il seeme to see thet D-if che

cam. t DCB's attertin at all- would clave navly teen ty-passed,

Линике le simply ded snost presers. the type of ifo. tat DCD ore

suekin, at tiet tome, DCA would susly har un te tt: mar-

a potr ie tiaellers wh slad ne giater reeses in th Hte.

3111187-

3. should te alded tat sttve-dewelted search pisduced as merd

o nduation bat any oter H.s. gost. agesey das usd wn as

a source. M ild concidered hex for remetmest

b: 21d pt. concuse papere avil it HDS A O defore te resses.

Suefuelly, H ven S der. wil led bher eat b Ryery lfre

acsaes -2 ву F.BI, 2 ly SD 2 1cty U342y A 201 qile

had heea speued AL N)2/10 a tais of Mept of Is. G) tese 5. 1oc2

The 201 file. conteiled no yesey riginated rerds.. Ie AC33

repiting of montring of 1'3 acdurties dedit yet bes neluded in d fels

Eertisent-lables.from 1.C. Weu delk at Ker.. rerch ot HIS, Whele data

coxtataed a ter chad wen desen: t FBI uptr sccept. Cakles were.

SEENTT

---

## Page 39

SECRET

3/114/78

1188-1000

(coast.)

wroporated int file follurig us. we made waid, to all concured,

wiel. W.C.

i pite gust ust we pet telling us life was.

sea Dis name had no past: messeng lefre ther

8. Filets i meals we posed lefe naches. as will as male up of ou

Lumpetried.

of Com. i group of Comes staff meaters when they wated M9s i @ 3164.

201 file in O also sto there thee... Mectors were sattfled w. records

system? maa is. Wheck ur kept our needs.

96/15

Attacked

Pens of concreation: ARE 4.17.

3111188

- Duck feet that CIA had not estatted is u-thank who woked a

the SU. & returned.

- I stated that CIA led no contact whO Ute dusing lue; period Meters

- Ketter parted out Helms agitatin Her das legates; I stated it

was easily explaned that thes would be wered that suck dole

ag lit re against CIA. theo stated he kill of as indistin

that I's agitation ice tecuse I was seralug mip: @ Azeey.

which Kens wasted to remain concealed.

- *W/respect to O's I appeasauce in Hr rends L exp tet CIA.

night well have shuld off furn day interew w/ thin if the the

ndetion of pur FBI interest A fre the selitary, l said the Site

any sonce. Registe did not ndicate MA. D. Was a Weed. stree

" That Its tout weren

Logian s/the nel. scurca for 15300

---

## Page 40

3| 14/78

1183-1900

world prosly. Nave indicted ay mel debifing for ited pipes,

Sit nose appear in tis filis, so I belued nose existed

Comment: From leis attilude, & delive Hers a chance prozian well ndleate.

No LIA crection old the than that noted above. Lould sake ontal

to kerking door perani belif i couty. 'He niel lowerer

inure that The Ratte dHe leak anyting which would cale te

slightest drut te the alone set defre de produces the programs a Nor."

3111189

...--

SECRET

---

## Page 41

SECRET

office of Security File - Hillen A. Mozan

- 10/31/60 Memo, M.D. Sture to Chief, Security Research Staff Beiject

unwear defectos

Refers to verbal request for if se am itzen defecting to U55R,

Red. Chis rotter Settlite countries deving past 1s no - otter.

than BF Mitchell i Hn.H. Master 4, 5 other defectors regardeng

Whom 11.Gtepta of Slate Dept, already des if. Lie R.8.

Nebates, E2-18854; 2H0, M511164: Litero Ricecardelle, 15:8295;

V. Slobala, 15-13565; i J. Puttkaney, 15-10724)

security files reflect subjects of attacked mense are adettined

Am. its ito da dieted during part 13 mos.

swind if abore refered to defectors have dees of nteret t

Herbert hee Nethrsep

.S. Heater Detolas Petulli, EE EE19439, were subje. f 00/.

requeto 45/29/5936/15/59, With a rew to then bung

debriefed upon the settles fron visits to Ruin better

was.ntererd.dy.CIA, vitter defore or after Visits.

additional iso...( unrelated) ne a slatie of Petullis

Wadine stda: curently of terest b. Secusty. in

new of his assignment (prior to. 8/3160 defector to S. .

Via 6. Hermary) to 5/3 t MIt in trankfurt, Dermary,

Where he chas coxtact w/it least representstie

of IA t was in poetion to chave learned idextities

of CIA personnel at EGIS lester. 3111190

Idwald Text

SECRET

---

## Page 42

Kraser (cost.)

DCD. Docisments.

4, wort, we will endear to get a sure dettled descup ton

malled parcel port I May led

Please. settun. incured, to Me Kaner at Alove addless by I tre 62

5. Petition form for Kapkic Material.

Dated: Apil 30,1962.

Drea: 155R / Poland / Geckodeskia

Subject: Aitonsule Lip tough abor counties

#of items i category: 4 cattudge of 10 sides each.

Date of exposure: suminer 196.

licefeation of phots, when separated from thes form, dergasted as

1) to officel use only: 2) Confidential

Ды. # 3224213

Rescription of Material: See attacked sheet.

Attacked. Sheet)

LA.:- 29005

April 30, 1962.

Xists descuption. of film. cotered in each certudge.

Lastidge II.

1. Road to smolence.

3111192

2.. Radar tower

3.5 Smolerate

Road marker 84 hilosettis fion licka ( 284 in from Hack

7-8...

Along road to Mick

9-15 Wease #10 shows Satant guide Settera (lau) i red blouse).

N: Tree etcructing nodd a tide ares sea But.

18-21 Warsaw.

22:23 Composes Chopis home near Hase EGRET

24.

Road marker 50 ten. part hiraw tward Poznas.

25-32... Runs in Potish uticu

---

## Page 43

kramer (coxt.)

33 Geck Polel Border-just though. Polish customs, Gech in othe side of tige

3440. Kuabhan countryule? Шенка

Lo CIA hapdels Register Hancrettal Sheet

- Date: Hauck 13

He Costrol # R 106580

to: Freck zoung...

Fox: trap us Regute, Office of eatel Refuse

subject: betelgene Itography - atteed plots furrected in nepes

to referened uquest. (по першки).

Exured: 1 phsto of Marked: USSR WAC 1680 Brake 53 S4 N 27 348

Intrist. Tide Stelara, Not Lake in beckground.

sammer 1961. Affeal se orly: (1,8,19.25).

HH-12546.

LIA 8.40019

FIc: HH-12546

Reference 2/11/64 meno no request for ufo a nut

Men requests that tier he checked for u. or specue Strets

durng in touck includig workers at Minsk Radis Factory

Intouet guides, students , ete

3111193

2/17/04. Memo. See H. Siglen 1/SR/CI/Researel 10.00//loxtact AULIOR;

Atta: support Bacch, Shuly Ston; Hue D0/05.

- I he support. I operational pereauce prevently, seig conducted,

this fec would applese newing any oo seporte or

He prind 1959 to preset dealing will.

b. The tale lennette for the Coordiation of Suertie levauch

---

## Page 44

111194

Kharker (cont.).

8-Coat) Nock (GKKNIR) of the BooR.

c. Surtific persoraltu, situret pessalties and ober peonalities

9. Process Steet fu 00/c Collectiona Report # 23615.

Date Fwrd.: 3/9/62

Dy: M.s. Villay

Mine Film of sunshile Trip through the 3 ll. in the Wylong- Recengiad-

Nogood- Kalian-MarcoW-Smolensk - Merck-Bust nute

Feld Rimaiks: Muchof felm taker out of can urndow tu buy jumpy.

May hour, proude some shots albig the roadede which night

not ittruce he wailable, Here we some undertified (rada?).

bruces to he seen Hasishally...

10. 3/9162 Perctation Fors for Mapkic Meteual

Area: U352 / Poland / Gech:

subject: sell of Loled I mon tove fin on automsele tip though USSe

usufed: Confidestial.

Is srue apt to make alditional pite griphis material walable? Ano

Mey sues name be revealed to Maphics Regrats, ock, i required? y

oxtairs detailed descruption of film.

L. # (Ulegeble)? E. 212,627...

1.: WA: 63368

2268.

LANG

FROM SUPPORT (STETSON).

SUBTECT: 00=8: 3224213 (LA, 29.005.)

REF: KEIBALHER/STETSON

TELECON. 0F 3/17/64

SECRET 191100

SECRET

---

## Page 45

Klanes (cont.)

I. (ont: I do induated in refeciced teleon, 410; Cartedge. I of.

subject sept the staired by graphics because it shes an

Iatourist guide in tench, USSR. Die of the unidentifued

men in this picture war a shong nemblance to the terry seld.

SR/II came wore this pecture and sequested penison t

read it, together with 00-3-3212967 (1A-28641) and te stuces

ietitist the. FbI and the Haven. Commesson After wiking.

with you, we. gave. (I staff permission to do s0 the understanding

in that the FBI will go back to the sauces for fusthe saf. on thes

suijeet.

2: II nor has to quections which we cannot ander fon

reads wailable here: I). Date i place where phate wan made available

women wriest intolted for o suing the trep. Beluve tis to

the taie statement but would apprecate confirmation. Ass,

advice in to date (s) # of stacts of thin. Velliny wIthere WOKeN

12:

3111195

I take to nack Vellmy: now atticed to hase the

Records

show-that she postaly saw ladies i sabing ly tie left this

seterx from USSR) Jugget you call her or details, "But we are

sur the did not see the ladies defre the hep and ustainly

not (ly us) dunng the trp...

---

## Page 46

SECRETE

Karner (cont.)

1 cort) 2. Tile cards indiate that Kranes i Maras were both debriefed

On 31162. Both were noted to de very copeiative"

Box 0н 3/9/12 ur sext LA Report 28615 (Passpot ta oak), 28415(8 m02

movie on 10a2) 428618. (brochures for suction)

Da. 3/13/62 Report 28641 (00-B0R Realities)

3/2/62 tire to Kramer - Returning passport i acting studes.

3/21/62: Return of filme. by Mina to Maman ty mael

4/30/42 - 11 Report: 29005 (4 cartridges of 40

35 mm. slides)

3. HAS routing slip Indiates 6MP stay rettered sledes arely to

Kraser on 5/17/62 W/steresting comment, "Not of the slides are

of the usual tousiet mety and chere are of little value.' of

the 160. slides. 5 were acessioned"

Handwatter sotation: 3119 copy to SR/LI X7735 Atte

5C39 HQ

3111196

SECRET

45.

---

## Page 47

Bebey 16l

435-173-A

12/12/63 Cover Teno, Rotut. I. Kakpill, 605, Palls to

Chif, SkL Chef, We fourding weloed sems as

follows:

Mr.C.

Mc. H

1/25/63 Meno, Homar B. Casacea to Halter P. Haltegas;

C: 2H10

1. REDWOOD. had it one tire as OI in Oswald

..Aa. Chef of the 6 Brased it had descesed

--. sometime in sumirer 1960... with the then Chef

i Rep. Kif of the b teore Section the laying

in. of teurew(s) through KULTUHT notte

sultable channele: It the moment, & dost

reall whetter the was distased while Of

his fanely were in noute to ou coentry

o if it was afte there arrival.

(cont.te. next page)

3111197

SECRETI

---

## Page 48

1/9/758

Setry Disl

455/13-A(cat) 2. Rencents O's sledro In USSR stuck me from sitest

I dead read Ist ODACID dispated or heis, iS told may

suborded something amourting to, Bot phed to chaid

to get ite ifs. we reed, tuare the indwidual looter odd."

Interested in I O night provide a thiack fattery, cutain

section of utty italys if course the wal I that night telp.

delop target persiality dosiles'

3. I was phasiay into over cover as ugnmeat, i out of

KuDOVE, It tie time. Thus, I world wal ust our county

shortly aftle os anual. Dost now what actor aeseloped

Kwafter

Larcadum

4. Has incoming ieasingly ntested in watching developing

pattern witsusied is b; the I of S0v. WAs martying organs,

bring permitted to leave USe, the sworeng setting abroad

whost retursing. ыке.

CHAN

3 Case Was among Ist tf

test; also tessed. up@2doz.sular cases Witableshed licks

vet-sorse of Hase WOReR? KEB. KHDESK breame interested

in the developing tend. Tadly out of anorty if D's wife would

nepay chen to ou coustry i party sit of stet in D3

experiences is USSR, that we showed opistiest in the Haway story

T.B.C.

Mr. C.

3111198

SECRET

47:

---

## Page 49

3/1/178

Eitey Nolf

609.786

3/17 Mens for Chief, E/RE A

sugiet: Article allaging It was interrewed. by

CIA employees

1.2/22/64 Lotter Ve. sue article alleges that State

Rept. recoids show that s iled swuel mitgs, with

tea pish.... One State Dept. cable, No 234, dated

112/59, report. that O Was intourwed. My the CIA!

oke untary officiate.

2. Allegation is completely unfounded as followe

2: Ottele Ctla 3,'"Cable" 10, 234, dated 112/59 -

must max 5. A. despatch 10.234, dated 1/2/59

b. "Derpatch costarse no statement a mp

thet Reclard E. Suple, the 2nd Sey: of the U.S.

has ITA crsection. Is name to the only mane

of a plats Who might have spoken w/O"

Only other U.S. official (contion rest page).

3111199

REGRE

---

## Page 50

3/1|78

SE

S9K90

609-786 (cont.)

mentioned in SA despatch was Edward X. Trees, who signed alap.

77 6201-7480097 interest in sile

C. Retard 4. Susyder (DIOB: 10 121-1919, Pascal, 4. .)

apled for employ in 649. i submitted complete 71S form.

Extered on, 1l/8/79 at 65-9; ase. to Zesonnel file, was

arugned to OPL i Slated to serve n. Jokep (file dorit

show de served there). Served is Herdeberg 3/50 watel

rughing eff. 9/26/50 to-aauune.pretor.N/HIC08.

No fuster latries in Desirall pele.

LAge Commonaline

и миналу з

SR DUrsIon his unfeal file on chin, showing that Maleon.

BRICKAM Me SK Air. Staff up was is contact w/Syder fro.

1yr.: (1956-57) , whose che used ie a spotter at Harvard Where S

was studying Ruman I had need to the stude who might.

Я. доод. ts. USSR. No. ucord of TOA, DA Or LSA action in that

connection In 3/59-1/pist.just Before ss departure for TIL, State

reg. de de gwen 2 weeks of the DDS Course (pUt ORRS ting. So.

Order of Battle.

ZE (201-175339)

Bif listery of Agey

d. Edward I Freess was sever an impl. of

CIA.

- Dump. sue All, serving in vasious countres:

-1952, While a "Pecteral Wice.

шагал i cher; charance granted 1932, Theres

1955 € learn canelled

- Sept. to How. 1956. IO Dursion ofeceals in conte. t her because

If his 5A portion → ID reg.; reid daisor dear, ron ..

- 0S. file entain follong word of int. " Clearene ation setner.

4/57 - 5E/7P.

8/58 - 2/8P/20

1162 - DPO - D0P.

4158 - 05]

8/59 - C/7$/LO

---

## Page 51

3/1/78

(609-786 1coat.).

ALLEN L Pall SLOTT.

- Article als appeared in Human Eists - we have rig i or puttedler.

i iginal founder.

1. AREN's i SCOTT'S attackd. In CIA I will-known & pestetest.

- Have beer sherpshosting at M. Dulles, where p. presentid

- DS her a detailed trag. recount of ALLEN I A Lepy of pet of

na westigative report on sett. - no derogatery rife se etter.

3111201

SECREtI

---

## Page 52

2/8/48

Ketry Islf

File: 00-8-3,212,967

SE.

Subject: Realities Hitor Parade / enterogation a Mack Followrag

Inclusive. Dates: Marck 21, 1962

.: DCD

Date of Rafs: 1131-8/13/61

Vla; Rate hug: 1852/41/31-5/3141

to detections

rapimation Kepset.

#89 OcR

Sousee: US Utigers; tws noser tourists

Source, a college graduate, i an older companior, tered

the USSR. for tws weeks by ear.

3111202

sument is 4 pages dong

Lests 13 paragizens desceving trip through Russea / Dreadsty

Hescubes excouuty.....

Kusian studeat". Peter to whost they

office in hotel in Mack. Neations that Istourist guide, slaia

(Ix, was asked to interpret: Pourests were requested to take tou

of suck of settare ae guide, devng whed time thei totel

room was scared. Lar was searched that right.

Rescites search at souiet-Poliel order, where they appeared to

se lastig for paper" I showed so ixteet in filme

sad traveling companion was questined f the too in here hotel.

SEGR

---

## Page 53

SWine as

614-261

Kramer- Koore Douments

1) 3/20/64 Memo, ADP (Neigleton) to Rirector, FBI; RE: Phots of LO

taken ta Minck by Morea Kianer

wattached nouting steet

Also marked, "(SCI 3/780612"

2) Copy of Laformation Report 1o. 00-8-3, 212,967; Date: 3/21/62

3111203

---

## Page 54

3/14/18

Bitay Nolf

1187-436

915/75 Memo, Des. I. Klanie, Chef GI Staff to Exe Nest.

to the ALDO..; RE: LHO

1. LH03. 201 file was it. pered under the make of te tery seld

12 1219/60 as a scult of dia "defection" to the US IN 10131/59!

possible westy. into the U.s."

2. Jule costaldo 2 FBI reports, dated 5/05/68 4d 1/3/1, 0l ctenreur

8f Is inster rotter M. Ves possible sture to .5. E des royalty

Wich to retra to US. 1,5 f O's Alters acting for compliance

Cleo an O lette set to MC deputig dis underable declarge

Above does. probably unulted anong FBI, SD, IS. E DNI

too. 10/16/63.mesr0.NeeScott.4.5. Amt Here se D's Wist to

M.C. I to Sww. Ent. tie in late Sept early Det. IS

surequesty, suel i He is 10/63 which a passed in to.

E, Et. in M.C..

4. Several otter FBI reports dated 10/63 re 0'S Acturttes 1e FPL

s arsed in 10/63 which wire passed is to INs: "There are

---

## Page 55

3/30/18

1031-405

1004:400

Belay Kil

12/5166 MFR; RE: Amencan Defectors to the USSK

Wattacked dig. info on i estracted fit FI leperte 146159

article in back were, ster

3/2/65 Memofo: Quector, FBI: RE: Marra Kastor; Passele

consection to seratigation of WHO 110.

a. Puerous creepaduce se Kenter induatte he reportedly was

in.

teack for bloke during summer of 458 i durng the persel

b/2 - 9/8/59.

Mauna cried in Minck toward ind of august

1959

b. In itcureus ba May 3141961, cn Lopeckagen, Reamact, with

ах empe of this hgesey who was crown ts. Keeter as" a reple

sometting fan Addity in Mack since he was the sly Arenan

sending there at the trme...

1. Both Kaster I Dswald had sewed as callsted men; takashal

in the uSme.

d. Recording to a repod from Retroit off ue (FI), dated 8/1464,

Karter wa employed.

Shere lang. Ect in the His Illege of 154A. Kurdig to press

reports Mo is curseatty willed In a specad Eng to glage

3111205

---

