{180-10142-10238] 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

fa DRAFT ~ MDC ~ 11/7/78 aub ule(re {Fox AB
Betsy Palmer ZOLPELe 2y
w26

“ MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO
t fry peeves (MDC)

| *feer Castro's assumption of power in 1959, it became
4
evident to many Cubans that political parties were being

surpressed and the 26th of July Movement was being infiltrated

by Communists. This political atmosphere gave rise to the
creation of underground organizations such as the Christian
Democratic Movement of Cuba (MDC). Qeraspoo, MDC Volume 3,
Objectives of MDC) estou, doctrine of Christianity as its
foundation, the MDC published a manifesto in arch, 1960,Arbia)
denouncing Commun ismy and strongly advocating the free enter~-

@

prise system. “(HSCA #009538, Item 4, p. 2, FBI #105-87909-5,

1/30/61) One of the founders of the MDC, 35-year-old law

professor, Dr. Jose Ignacio Rasco, was elected head of the
@ mmecteatly

organization tbid) and pubiicty criticized the violence

prevelant in the Castro regine. “opn/p00 MDC Volume 3) This‘
Pull, wed privaicre or Keo ere. nr
Open Be aig a ececons cate eee eres Cuba and he

was-granted safe-condtet-to the Uls. ae ede in Miami ot
April 22, 1960. ae #009538, Item 4, p. 2, FIB #105-87909-5,
1/30/61) eee Rasco had allied himself and the MDC with
the Frente Revolucionario Democratico oOo and 2

Are, brovekr C6ehez
“es one of the five original exile Cuban leaders\recommended—— > _

ny by the State Department and the Hasana CIA -stese0en to form the

nucleus of a Cuban government-in-exile. (Give Us This Day by

E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library Edition, pp. 43-44.
After the Bay of Pigs invasion, the MDC split into
factions. (CIA/DCD docubtpt. Jose Ignacio Rasco, Information

Report 00-K-3,233,366, 8/16/62) Rasco remained head of the

0: NOT KEPRODUCE
RETURN TO CIA

\NA7 7623 &


DRAFT- MDC - 11/8/78
Page. 2
largest faction and. wei organized delegations in Miami, New

: (2)
York, Chicago, Venezuela and Cuba. (Ibid) The clandestine
faction operating in Cuba was lead by Pepin Fernandez Badue

: (9)
who used the alias "Lucas". (Ibid) When Fernandez arrived in
the U.S. in October, 1961, he presented his credentials to the
Cuban Revolutionary Council, (CRC), claiming he was the rep-
1acteid)

resentative of the MDC movement in Cuba, e#d Council president,
Dr. Miro Cardona, accepted him into the CRC ee Gee

ITs pole Was
The "Lucas" faction remained with the Gouncil but 4 4

rueprecttel eyeuTally Facled
_-—_imperkdfee because Fernandez |

tive committee of his factionnex—did—he—make—any—effert to
hold the group together. (HSCA Security File 092, Senstudy
Document, Volume 32, Item 1, #97-4110-72)

The Rasco faction of MDC had as its Military Chief an
ii@apendently wealthy young Cuban, Laureano Batista pala Dpia,
Item 2, #97-4110-123) Free-spirited and under no financial
pressures, Batista was—abte—te organizedand partially financel the
infiltration attempts of the upcChisca #009303, FBI #97-4623-
149, Section V) whteh-made—thas one of the most active and
effective underground Gictpe in Cuba during the early 1960's.
(Hsca Security File 092, Senstudy Document, Volume 37, Item 4,

\ #105-95461-15, page 4) i :
From(1960 a 1962) (sca $009303/p - 6, FBI #97-4623-149,
alla g aE)
Section V) Batista/was (associatea with the CIA as a "political
and psychological agent". (CIA/Office of Security, Laureano
Batista Falla, Operational Approval form)) He trained at oa
CIA- sponsored) camp for the MDC near Perrine, Florida, prior

to the April 1961 invasions SCA #009303, p. 4, FBI #97-4623-147 Se


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page 3
and made many trips from this camp to deliver explosives, guns
and ammunition to the Cuban underground. @rbia)

at BE time WEE indergrouna groups worked together,
sharing supplies and information... (HSCA Security File 092,
Senstudy Document, Volume 37, Item 4, #105-95461-15, p. 4)
However, the repressive measures of the Castro regime after the
April 1961 invasion, caused members of the Cuban underground to
live in fear of discovery and made inter-group liaison extremely
Hi ea ee p. 2) Despite the inherent dangers, the under-
ground movements of the MDC and Movimento Revolucionario del
Pueblo (MRP) worked jointly for an all-out sabotage effort in
the fall of 1961 Apia)

The “Batista" faction of the Mpc, (so named after the
youthful military chief rose to the position of president
in 1962) Gasca #009303, p. 8, Item 4, FBI #105-183815) entered
into-a-number—ef similar cooperative alliances with other exile
groups for the purposesof propaganda, sabotage and supplying
the Cuban underground. Many MDC members joined the Cuba

&

Committee in 1962 which was formed to counteract the,Fair Play
for Cuba Committee, a erouCastrG organization in the U. s eras
DDO, MDC Volume 3, Cable to Director from JMWAVE, 6/21/62,
#14986) The MDC and the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil a
(DRE) worked together to formulate plans for an underground

organization to infiltrate Oriente Province. IA/DDO, Laureano

Batista Falla, Information Cable TDCS DB 3/660-090, 3/14/64)


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78

Page 4

The @gactive operations between the MDC and other anti-Castro
reat

groups peaked in the year 1963.Q In April, Frank Sturgis, Miami-

based soldier of fortune, supplied information that Batista,

Orlando Bosch Avila, Manuel Artime and Alexander Rorke were

jointly planning an air strike over Havana on April 25. Gasca
#009303, page 1, FBI #97-4623, Section#) According to Sturgis,
the strike was to originate from an airstrip in Puerto Rico and
the targétfa sugar eae The bombs were ofthe
honenade, warisiey, ama Sot Logéshes by eee ea chre p. 5,
Item 2) Rorke publica ly announced that the strike had taken
place as scheduled, which took the other planners by surprise.

(Ibid) Sturgis claimed the strike was still in the planning

Recuporacim Rurelutionaria, (MRR)

stage and financial backing had not been completed. (Ibid)

Recupurracion Gevolelisrarta. medirtier 3 (MERR) aud
Thee meyenunte-

This incident created a stir and resulted in an intensive FBI

investigation of Rorke's allegation. (HSCA #009303, p. 3, FBI

rw ssinsbregl Cyn 00, Cr Movements GrourreceniaR. de

#97-4623, Sections II through VI) Since Radio Havana, contrary
to usual policy, made no immediate protest over the bombing,
& Ge FBI

Ibid, p. 3, FBI #97-4623, Section IV) it=was concluded that

Rorke's story was probably untrue (Ibid, p. 2, #97-4623-35)

Gant ;

and, according to Sturgis, merely a publicity stunt. (Ibid, p. 2,
Item 1 (9), FBI #97-4623)

\ In early June, 1963, the MDC made a unity pact with
Commandos L in which the latter group was to provide training
and assistance in military intelligence and the MDC to provide

Menai boats and a team of men to infiltrate Cuba. GP /n00,

MDC Volume 5, Information cab1e(urc}3536, 9/3/63) The MDC also

made a pact with Dr. Carlos Prio Socarras, former President of


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78

Page 5

Cuba, who donated $50,000 ef =ts—ewn-merey to the group for
military aid in return for its promise of political support.

(Ibid)

Ricard Rudolph Davis; a Cuban atien, Qeca #012981) had
a peripheral association with the MDC through his contact with
Batista in the summer of 1963. This association was SOROS
in Book V, Final Report of the Senate Select Committee to
Study Governmental Operations, page 12. (Footnote to discuss
discrepancy)

Davis was residing in New Orleans and, although not an
onee

MDC member, claimed to have,= , been a
“coordinator" for the group and the New York Police pepaSaent.
(HSCA #012981) 1He was a friend of Batista and contacted him
because, Batista was in a position to recommend men in
il the Miami area who needed work. (Ibid) Davis claimed he could
provide employment for a small group of Cuban enigres ~“Hathea
entered into a business deal with geologist David L. Raggio and
a wealthy, right-wing New Orleanian, Gus de LaBarre, forming the
Guatemalah Lumber and Mineral Corporation. @ 54) It was their
intention to train the Cubans on some land in Lacombe, Louisiana
to which de LaBarre had access through his nephew, Frank de
LaBarre. ae After a necessary training period, the group
was to be sent to Guatemala to cut mahogany trees, he Nhe

hm Dikeang un Berm”

A group of about 18 Cubans did alrivez
feast Then wap : iD .
\—-——. sh a well-know Cuban exile, Victor Paneque (Ibid) who

(HSCA #092

GNTE

used the military code name of “commadante Diego,

Security File, Senstudy Vol 32, Item 2. #97-4110-123, p. 2)

Cas wore Uperkp axcoetd woth Ratiter si the mbitarny actiatie Z
Dare a ores cated eae GVO


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page 6

Later achat t Ch eee

Dave.
had
Uxecording—to-pevies the mekterived dressed in khakis (HSCA

FBI, Richard Rudolph Davis, Volume 1, Report from N.0O.
#006716, p. 4 /wi i that they were to receive military

7/3/64) & A UG
training. (Ibid, p. 2)

In the latter part of July, 1963, the FBI conducted a

raid on property near that of the”lumber company‘ training camp,

CRM 7 :
seized a cache of dynamite and other explosives.

(Ibid) This raid, according to Davis, unnerved his trainees,
@®

and they elected to return to Miami. (Ibid)

A somewhat different version of this episode comes from

le An A222,

Gus de LaBarre's nephew and attorney, Frank}~who first related
his story in 1966 to his former law school classmate, Jim
Garrison. Lies #012981, Fonzi memo 9/6/78)

Be LaBarre said his’Uncle Gus‘ had introduced him to

zx
Davis, whom Ye LaBarre described as a "floater." They came
to see M% LaBarre about drawing up Articles of Zncorporation

juan KE,
for the Guatemalan Lumber Company and that is when He7 learned
of their plans to bring unemployed Cubans from Miami to train
as lumberjacks. Uncle Gus sent provisions to the exiles on a
daily basis and solicited money for food and clothing from
friends and relatives. (Ibid) eee i!
has tasecpecke de tint rakebiny Tamang eva trig GorctacLiligt he
Camp de LaBarre said he didn't pay much attention to the
‘ aca Blouses

activities of the group, imtitxe.,when he heard on his car radio that
the FBI had seized a cache of ammunition at a house in Lacombe,

he immediately called his uncle. Although receiving assurances

that the lumber group was not involved, G LaBarre called the

officers of the corporation together and insisted that the Cubans

fo old him
be taken out of there. Davis Ee coo caeng=to~de—haparre!s-

2
version) that the Cubans did not want to leave, whereupon


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page ©]

vA saith
‘eLaBarre{had to do some real “brainstorming." He rented a
Hertz ton-and-a-half truck and instructed Davis to take it to
the camp and tell the Cubans "that the invasion is on." Davis
complied, and the Cubans loaded their gear, jumped in the truck
and were brought to the Greyhound bus terminal in New Orleans.
Each was given a one-way ticket to Miami plus a small amount of
cash and told they would get their orders when they reached
Miami. Looking as though ready for war, with knapsacks and
guns bulging from under their clothes, they boarded the bus, and

thar was he bast, DolaVace Stud, be saw 22 Then,

Cde-haBarre had no more contact with them. & The last he heard

he sacd, —
of pavisywas in 1964 when one of We LaBarre's friends reported
he had gone into business with Davis and was left with a lot
of oa

Other than providing the manpower for the training

So
camp, Batista was not Z in this episode nor was the
MDC as an organization.

Concurrent with his involvement with leaders of other
exile organizations, Batista was dealing with foreign governments
in an effort to gain support for his faction of the MDC. After
the World Congress of Christian Democrats in Strasburg, France,
two West German officials of the Christian Democratic Party
conferred with the MDC in Miami. (CIA/DDO, MDC Volume V,
Information cable(urd-4531, 1/29/64) According to one of the
officials, the West Germans, after months of study, had decided
to help finance the MDC, not because they were particularly fond

of them but felt once Cuba was liberated, the Cubans would have

a moral superiority over the rest of Latin America. (Ibid)


DRAFT-MDC-11/8/78
Page 8

Another offer of help came fron huis Sowoza, former
President of Nicaragua, who Chev ided a6 MDC a base for opera-
tions in that country, whieh-was—accepted. @rx/ov0, Laureano
Batista Falla, Volume 1, Information Report CSDB-3-655,718,
7/26/63) Venezuelan President, Romulo Betancourt, allegedly 7s
offered to make a base available for the MDC and provide it with
personnel and supplies: (CIA/DDO, Laureano Batista Falla,
Volume 1, Information Cable TDCS-DB-3/658,177, 11/14/63)
Recognizing that these Latin American bases of operation
were important to the MDC, Batista nonetheless preferred to
work out of the Miami area. Its proximity to Cuba, good
facilities for operating boats, and the availability of a large
number of Cubans to serve as mechanics and do other necessary
labor made Miami more desirable tha@ the Latin American
facilities. (HSCA Security File 092, Senstudy Document 33, Item
1, #97-4110-86, p. 13) the dsig” drawback in Miami was the
presence of U.S. government officials determined to strictly
enforce the Neutrality Actaud oth Adal dahiliv,

U. S. Customs raided MDC headquarters in Miami on
April 21, 1964 and confiscated a large cache of arms and

(OB: , Vol. 32, Otiw 2, q7-Y 10-123, 1)
ammunition. Undeterred, the MDC simply relocated the military

section in separate headquarters, ard continued to store materials

for infiltration and attack missions against Cuba,
and
327—Etem-27_#97-4110-123, p>, Study courses in military

bid, ¥Veteume

training and theory,-wexe-atso—comineted—at_the new lacation—

(Ibid, Volume 33, Item 2, #97-4110-132, p. 2) In July, Batista


MDC - DRAFT - 11/8/78
Page 9

and Victor Paneque infiltrated men and equipment into Cuba to

eovee hey sow
form a nucleus of guerrilla bands who ,apon_neasipe of adequate

arms and ammunition, planned to go into the mountains of

cuba Arpiay
eye TO b.
The ubeysutfered the fate of other anti-Castro
organizations -- finding it increasingly difficult to finance

infiltration and sabotage missions, and experiencing increased

surveillance by U. ¥. authorities determined to limit their
Aarwitkes_.

activities. The organiza eat eee declined i: importance .

Batista eventually gave up his anti-Castro activities, moved

to Washington, D. C. and received a Doctoral degree in political
science. (HSCA #009303, p. 7, Item 3, FBI #97-4110-207, Report
from Miami, 1/28/70. In the spring of 1970, he moved to

Venezuela.
