# 180-10143-10104

## Page 1

180-10143-10104

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DO NOT REPRODUCE

6002450

RETURN TO CIA

EGRET

Mexi 7023

М: 9/28 Zape could have been Mased My 101.

A. Н. would know bttter..

Mexi 7024.

Rupee

ti can't recall if 9/24 converation knows by that tome

- Yaxi 1025 Ab. Yeprts calls of t/s 10/1.

тикі 4028 Х. Scott

-Doesnt. Mecall if they haw if 9/28 converate refore ther

Mexi 7025

Last para

wet suff piled whetter a wee sane?

sac not conducted → that's ly klite fist report or 1/s wet to

S00. Ent.

Уехко 7033 (7933)

murage wreck said all us und ween reported

This was beerus we adst weve i.

Ran:

I ustructions was on the materials

But it SAt of time sequee on witting can't it it.

I: Unusual if WHo worted Emb. 5 times that the wouldit have been

phottgraphed.

10145-101041

---

## Page 2

0002451

SECRET

- Cast gue fell detals: sonewhat compartmentatized

Peggy Nage ahe in support apet

Kumoro to effect that HDs led Meated phote of LHD

I: Downt recall ; doesnt recall merig phote;

There is a plots in LAD'S M.l. fle necd. Mom

Ц: 4о ликку wusness w respect o the late.

X. Sett wanted as to do throud jot i we did. Same w/ HOS

aid a yell, Asset. through fot.

I: Not surpusing that this didat send plate - wasnt important ensigh.

with sues that it a arountely unlikely that hAD had a people stonel

rector w/ Katie cause of nature a contact

M.6..

I:

Дан:

&. Howard Huat: no

тайне Biskop: по

LAD as intell agent?

At merm, Here would have been a 201 pile.

10/11. cable gues A 201#

I set wild love gotter ifs. paitcarly die to this setter alp oce

peads) w/ Aagleton.

Down't know why 10110 table to MC would lave gone its pares messills.

Thinks it was hausual you that time peror.

---

## Page 3

3002452

8: hooumes let sett had no knowledge of sanities

have knows alss.

I he would

10/1 Transcupt : Note at ton

"serously transented'

would mean that it was in spared

У :

town involvement: no

: not uM.C.

suterrew coxcluded 12:10 p.m.

---

