{180-10077-10021 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
JFK Assassination System Date: T0/1/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10077-10021

RECORD SERIES: | NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 005063

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: FONZI, AND GONZALES
TO: BLAKEY, ROBERT G.

TITLE:

DATE: 02/04/1978
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :
CROZIER, ROSS
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: BOX 105, FOLDER TITLE:

v9.1 1
NW 50955 Docld:32247463 Page 1


MEMORANDUM - February 4, 1978

TO: G. Robert Blakey
FROM: Fonzi & Gonzales
RE: Addendum to Memorandum of January 16,

1978 re CROZIER interview

During the course of the initial ‘interview with Ross
Crozier, former CIA case officer for the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE)whose primary duty
station was the JM/WAVE base in Miami, it was
decided to withhold certain key questions concerning
cover names of other agents until the validity of
Crozier's candidness and apparent cooperation could
be ascertained. ;

Subsequently, on January 18th, Gonzales called
Crozier and asked him if he could identify the true
names of three individuals: "Bishop," "Knight" and
"Knoell." (Bishop is the name used by the Alpha 66
contact, Antonio Veciana observed with Oswald; Knight
was the name given to David Phillips by E. Howard
Hunt in his book Give Us This Day; and Knoell was

the true name of a CIA officer in Havana.) When
first asked about the names, Crozier said he believed,
but wasn't certain, that Bishop was the name used by
David Phillips. Knight, he said, was a name which

E. Howard Hunt had used, but he was less certain
about that. Knoell he remembered as a former CIA
officer in Havana. However, Crozier said, he was
scheduled to have lunch with a former CIA associate,
also retired, the following day and he would check
with him. (We have subsequently determined that the
former associate's name is Delphine Componada (spelling
not verified), who also worked out of the Miami
JM/Wave station.

On January 20th, Crozier was recontacted by Gonzales.
At this time Crozier said he was now almost certain
that David Phillips had used the name Maurice Bishop.
(Crozier had not been given Bishop's first name by

us); he still believed, but could not get confirmation,
that E. Howard Hunt used the name of Knight; and he

was sure that Knoell was the real name of a CIA officer
in Havana.

-more-

NW 50955 DocId:32247463 Page 2


On January 3lst, Crozier was recontacted by Fonzi and
asked again about the cover names. At this time Crozier
said he had given additional thought to the names and
was more certain about the validity of the information
he had given us.. Now, he said, he was almost positive
that David Phillips used the name of Bishop. And he

was still fairly sure, but not certain, that Hunt used
the name of Knight. The reason he was sure about
Bishop, he said, was because he had since recalled
working at the JM/WAVE station with a young CIA
associate ("clean-cut Navy officer type") whose cover
name was Doug. Gupton. Crozier said that Gupton was

David Phillips’ assistant in the "PW" (psychological 7?
warfare) section. Crozier said he now recalls discussing
at times field and agent problems with Gupton and

Gupton at times saying, "Well, I guess Mr. Bishop will
have to talk with him." Crozier said: "And, of course,
I knew he was referring to his boss, Dave Phillips."

Crozier said he had reaffirmed that in his mind recently
when he had lunch with another. former CIA employee
(Delphine Camponada) who had worked directly under
Gupton. Crozier said he doesn't recall Gupton's true
name but assumes he is still. with the Agency.

Crozier said another possible source for confirmation
of the Phillips-Bishop cover name was the CIA employee
in charge of Radio Swan, the Agency's propaganda outlet
on Swan Island. Crozier said he doesn't recall his
name but assumes he is also still with the Agency. He
also worked directly under Gupton.

Further investigation is planned by the Miami station.
Recommend initiating Agency interview request re
employee who used the cover name of Doug Gupton in
1961-62 and employee in charge of Radio Swan at same
period.

HW 50955 DocId:32247463 Page 3
