'180-10144-10219| mm, 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 =

“Ss = eS S&S & & © & & & & F

?

2clOd a

CRYPTONYM: Aucuarrer-1 )
PSEUDONYM: /Spencer O. rerteting )

PERSONALITY TRAITS: / Howard Hunt praised Barker in his

: eee 7] ©
Classification: _SECRER ¥ 4 6°
ar
(This form is to be used for material extracted ly fl oe !
from ClA—controlled documents.) Dp’
BERNARD LEON BARKER rR & SIA

Bac se Only

BIOGRAPHIC DATA AND CHRONOLOGY. + can a

book, Give Us This Day, for his eagerness, efficiency
and complete dedication. "Overall his help was invaluable
The individual fho first recruited Barker in Havana
lauded his enthiisiasm and his "puppy-dog loyalty" to his
case officers, but found he was inclined to indiscretion
because of a dioraies) to pro-Americanism. Another CIA

Va MR RB A

officer, (David Morales) told Chris Hopkins in a 1972 tele-
phone conversation that Barker was a "“loudmouth" ho
Morales)recommended terminating in 1962. { Morales)was
concerned that as a result of Barker's Watergate involve-
ment, he would "tell the authorities everything he knows."
Indeed, Barker tended to broadcast his affiliation with
the CIA to the members of the Cuban exile community. and:::
anyone else who might have been interested. This was
tolerable prior to the Bay of Pigs when his assignment

as liaison between the FRD and the CIA was overt. However,
post Bay of Pigs CIA activities in the Miami area . -
required a more covert approach. Barkér was: :

told to strengthen his cover as prize fight manager and
use "cut-outs" in his attempts to gather information

about the activities of the exile groups. Gradually,

he was to cease all direct contact with the exiles. For

a man. who had a "loveyof the game", and an even greater
affinity for the. more overt techniques of investigation
and interview, it became increasingly difficult to find

a niche in Miami CIA activities. By the time he was
terminated from CIA employemnt in 1966, he had been
involved less and less with gathering information on

Cuban exile activities, and had spent the greater part

of his time debriefing recent refugees:from Cuba.

He never seemed to adapt to the more covert requirements
of his job nor was he ever able to establish the collective
exile community perception that he was no longer affiliated
with the Agency.

Classification:

=_ YS

| Classified by derivation: —___

lol4y-loQl?



CHRONOLOGY:

March 17, 1917

1936-1938

1940-1941
1942-1950

July 29, 1947

1950-1951

1951-1951
1951-1955

at
1953

2000192

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

BERNARD LEON BARKER

&

one

Classification:

- mother, who is mentioned elsewhere as

— — — — — — — — —

“Classification: _SEcREE. @

Born: in Havana, Cuba. Parents:

Father - Name unknown. Born 1/2/98 in
Columbia, Tenn.

Sanders, W.S. - Farmingdale, NY listed
as Barker's other parent, presumably hi

Mrs. John English of New York.

Attended Farmingdale: High Sthool, Farm-
ingdale, New York.

Attended the University of Havana.

ee

Served in the United States Army Corps.
Attained rank of Captain. Flew sorties
over Germany until he was shot down
and taken as a prisoner of war.

Service identification card. Valid
until 7/28/49. Occupation listed as

Barker is issued an American Foreign
importer. f

in Havana. Hunt says he took the job

at the request of the CIA. During this
time he cooperated with Jim Spears,

FBI representative at the American Embass
in Havana. He also assisted Treasury
Department officials in breaking a
drug-smuggling ring. Received a commen
tion for performance of duty for escortin
Mrs. Truman on a visit to Cuba. f

Sergeant in the Cuban Police ee

Owner of farm in Pinar del Rio Province

Remington Rand Corporation

(Job unknown) f

Dr. Mario Lazo assisting Barker with
citizenship problem. Compiled file for
Barker.

| Classified by derivation; ____.

y 4 rane a MT a =a 2 e 4



rs
s
6
p
4

s
s
4
6
6
4
4

— — — — — — — — —

E : me
eg: . SECRET %
Classification: "= &

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

BARKER

November 25, 1953 Travelled to United States, entered
at New York City. Sought legal as-
sistance from Edward Bennett Williams

in Washington. S

1955-1958 Marianao Municipal government
(Job unknown)

1959 cies é i H af fle

(No date) a Dr. Mario Lazo told ‘Barker his "service
fe were needed to fight Communism."
Barker_says the: agency ee
Stewart} to him. Other names also noted:
April 2. 205 POA requested by ugh MacAulay) for the
use’of Barker as informant in Havana.
Personal associates listed as:
Dr. Mario Lazo, atty, Havana

Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari, Pro-
fessor, University of Havana

Also noted in one instance that Barker’
recruitment originally handled by
(Woodrow Cc. Olien,

April 14 POA granted. 4

Barker's activities in Havana for the
CIA not identified, other than they
"organized a group to infiltrate the
Cuban government", according to Barker. f

August: Message sent from Marcos Diaz Lanz to
Frank Fiorini, asking his help in escaping
from Cuba.

September Reichardt requesting information regarding

Sanjenis, who was fired from the no. 2 spot
ae |

in Miami
| Classified by derivation:

Fl re ore er or eet

October Pedro Diaz Lanz file routed to Hunt.

200405 Classification:



Classification: “SECRET ~
Ca
(This form is to be used for material extracted y
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER
October-November’: i: Marcos Diaz Lanz in contact with (earn
and Reichardt. Known as "Bernie.
to identify himself to Marcos (2 as Dovid Mor o)

é reports "close and mo un-
shakeable relationship with people like
Frank Fiorini," despite warnings that he
talks too much.

November 15 to 25 ’ Barker travel from Havanito Caracas,
activities unknown.

1960

January 15 (vatrick Karniey) acting as Barker's
us channel to headquarters.

January 18 Evaduated to the United States by Air
Attache transport plane. Evacuation
completely covert. Later said he used
Cuban pass) Ps documentation at
urging of Frames “Noel that it would not

ra
4
4
6
4
4
4
6
p
6
Y

ate use of Cuban passport or that Bark
was ever issued one.)

In another instance, Barker said he left
Cuba too quickly to obtain any |

(No documentation in file to eat |

tation.

Met in U.S. by Bernie Reichardt.
Obtained Speci mtry stays from INS.
Turned over to ‘Karnley )who remaine
his case officer until May.

Shortly after Barker's arrival, Reicha:
requests assignment of Barker to PUSHEO.
eI as his assistant.

0

April Indications that Barker became Frank
Bender's representative in Miami at
this time.

May POA requested for use of Barker in U.S
as an independent contract agent in
political operations. Joe Piccolo's
name noted as cae officer. Barker to
200106 PEN
Classification:

= wa we

| Classified by derivation: ____

eee eee ee.



BARKER, 1960

May

(No date)

_.September

November

1961

January

200010'7

Classification: _SECRET_

(This form is to be
from ClA—controlled

Classification:

used for material extracted
documents.)

maintain continuity of contact with
Varona's group, et al.

Martha Tharpe listed as case officer
for (Spencer. 0. Terteling) Salary $300
per month. "Will act in capacity of
local representative of cover group
working with numerous contacts ...
under directign of Senior Case officer
Project(JMARC

Meeting between, Barker, Varona, and
"Douglas." Varona complaining that
Barker "spoiling" Artime; also objects
to Barkers attitude of treating all
FRD leaders alike since it makes it
difficult for varona to take lead.

a DR TR MR GT

that he might be utilized at one of
the training camps, but believe Barker
best use is as assistant to Hunt.

Barker "restless." Proposed to cae |

$5000 from "private" source passed to
Diaz Lanz to repair B-25. Frank Fiorini
listed as one of Diaz Lanz' pilots.

(Note: Hunt had requested that amount from
CIA headquarters for Diaz Lanz.)

‘Barker talked with Sanjenis who accuse

(fnu) Goudie of sabotaging the militar:
effort and putting loyalty to Justo
Carillo above FRD interests.

pemaany impressed with Pedro Diaz Lanz'
‘Sincerity. Proposes propaganda tour thru
Latin America. 6

Barker's wife, Clara Elena, obtaining
POA for use as translator with her husy
band. -Case officer named - Joe Piccol

Hunt investigating report from Customs
that Frank Fiorini told them in December
1960 that $2800 furnished by the CIA f

| Classified by derivation: _____



Classification: SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER, 1961

B-25 confiscated earlier from Diaz
Lanz. Fiorini mentioned the CIA
agent involved as "Barker." Also said
Pedro Diaz Lanz preparing for goodwill
tour.
Hunt's investigation disclosed that th
a $2800. came from a personal loan to Pedro
/ Diaz Lanz by Saralegui. Barker said

was paid to Customs to retrieve the f

ie he met Fiorini on only one occasion
7 with a group of people, and did not
hp see him before or since.
# (From Pedro Diaz Lanz file)
May 1961 Barker reporting on meetings in New
York City of CRC leaders.
June 1961 Barker contacts Hunt as "last resort"
to straighten citizenship status.
Barker no longer case offic yee but
handled administratively by ucie R.03

Hardeste: formerly Hunt's administrativ
“assistant.

July Barker travels to Washington to see f
Hunt; work on citizenship problem.
Hunt introduces Barker to hig next
case officer,(Phillip. Toomey) of —

July 17 Barker reporting re: Brigade prisoners
sent to negotiate ransom. (Reinaldo
Pico one of the two in the tenrman
negotiating group who refused to retur!
to Cuba as promised. His defection
from the group caused some animosity
from other eixles. Originally cleared
for Approval in September 1960. Reportec
to Barker (onyJGCE"in/1963 and JURE in
1964.) In ‘1969 reported to be working
in Venezuela for Minister of the Inte:
ior, where Luis Posada employed.)

~ fed well and morale is high, but they
are bitter toward the United States.
Barker reported to have had difficultie

Classification: === =~ SE f

Barker reports that the prisoners are f

2060163

| Classified by derivation: ___

MI ME LE LE LA MM La.



Classification:

(This form is to be
from ClA—controlled
BARKER, 1961

August 4 (voomey Jana Hunt confer with the Genera.

August 17 :
J

September 21 Hs
Pa
&

October ee

October 21

1962

January 17

March 16

March 18-28

April

August

August-December

SECRET

used for material extracted
documents.)

Cuban exile who are venting their
wrath about the Bay of Pigs fiasco

to Barker.

Counsel, CIA, about Barker's citizensh.

Barker's contract extended. Pay = $400/m

Hunt requests $500 per month retroacti
to November 1, 1960 for Barker.

w™~h ~~. VW

Barker meets with Jose Miro Cardona at
Miro's request. Miro yearns for "good
old days with Bender and Hamilton.”
Miro's friendly attitude toward Barker
deemed suspicious.

“ Qvexflight over Cuba with Bill Johnson,
Robert Swanner, Frank Fiorini and Als
Rorke .as participants.

Parole expired.

INS has file on Barker as of this date.
Reports nothing derogatory.

Travelled to Caracas, Venezuela, osten:
bly for fight of Doug Vaillant, prize
fighter who Barker manages, but went
to apply for immigrant visa to U.S.

~_.

Contract extended one year, over signa:
ture of William Harvey.

Regular progress reports for Barker's
activities begin.

Contacted Aldo Vera Serafin.

Investigating! Alpha. 66¥-Contacting::
Santiago Alvarez, Jr.

,

Ww. GR GS GR

| Classified by derivation:



3 i —— — — — —

October

November

November il

December
"1963

January

February

April

Q0cOica

é |
4
f
6
4
4
4
é
6
6
4
p

BARKER, 1962

Classification:

(This form is to be
from ClA—controlled

Classification:

SECRET

used for material extracted
documents.)

Investigating Orlando Bosch and Alpha
66. Gave verbal report regarding Veci

—_—

First report with Fiorini as source.
Fiorini source of reports almost every
month from this point on.

Investigating Rorke's activities through
leads from Frank Fiorini. f

Very tense month. Return of Brigade
prisoners. Orange Bowl speech by Kenne
Kennedy's statements accepted in general
by exile community, according to Barker
report, except'with right reactionary
elements knwon as the "Palm Beach crow
who are developing a plan of attack
against administration policy.

Barker told not to associate with Varona
and must deal with exiles through cut-
outs. s

Barker reports re: operations by Rorke
and Fiorini; rift in Brigade 2506 caused
by Enrique Llaca.

Report from Carlos Hernandez that he
was invited to join a new Brigade orgari
zation,

Barker also reports on operations by
Rorke from information given by Bill
Johnson and Frank Fiorini.

Barker takes a "Cover" trip to Puerto
Rico, involving two weeks vacation and
a prize fight. Met Bernard Reichardt
who was surprised to learn Barker's

citizenship problem had not been taken

care of.
Barker reports on the arrest of ae |
Duque in Rorke's boat, VIOLYN III, fro.
information given by Fiorini.

| Classified by derivation:



— — — —, — — — —

7 Classification:

J (This form is to be
from ClA—controlled

BARKER, 1963

s :

6 May 24

p i

$ May 24

6 June

Fune
Classification:
2000126

SECRET

used for material extracted
documents.)

Barker reports Fiorini to participate
in air strike over Cuba with Diaz Lanz
brothers; a tempest is created in Miam:
over the withdrawal of monetary..support
for. Jose Miro Cardona and the CRC.

Barker planned to use the good offices
of Manuel "Cuco" de Leon or Luis Somoz
to see Manuel Artime in Nicaragua.

(Miguel de Leon Rojas was interviewed by the
FBI on May 25, 1964, in connection with the
investigation into allegations that Quentin
Pino Machado was to have rescued Oswald after
the assassination and arranged for his trans-
port to Cuba. Miguel de Leon was named as a
source of this information. Miguel de Leon

is a former Congressman from Cuba, living in
Coral Gables at the time of his FBI interview.
He told the FBI that he heard the story at

the hame of Sixto Mesa, although he could

not remember who had related the episode. He
said he was aware of the fact that Machado,
during 1959, had been appointed by Fidel Casi

as Cuban Ambassador to Nicaragua, that he
sequently was declared persona non grata, and
that he had served in Mexico oma Cuban assign-
ment to investigate activities directed agains’
the Castro regime.)

Marcos Diaz Lanz trying to patch up differ.
ences between Fiorini and Pedro Diaz Lanz.

Barker reports Frank Fiorini informati
to the effect that Fiotini received tw
phone calls from General Clare Chenaul
in California, regarding participation
in anti-Castro activities. Chenault
suggested the exiles contact the Chine:
nationalists to request aid.
Barker also reported on the Diaz Lanz
brothers. He also reported that Pedro
Martinez Fraga, an officer in the CRC,
would provide him with information on
that group.

Marcos invites Fiorini to join raid agains’

Cuba on 6/15.

| Classified by derivation:



Classification: __S=CRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted s
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER, 1963

Fiorini regarding the Diaz Lanz bro-

July Barker reports on information from s
thers' raid.

to drop anti~-U.S., anti-CIA and anti-Artime
leaflets over Cuba. Fiorini to act as co-
: pilot and unidentified person was assigned
a task of making press release from Mexico

July Fiorini, Marcos, and Pedro involved in |

; City. §
July 28 Pedro Diaz Lanz intercepted on his way to

Weir Williams ranch in preparation for raid.
Raid rescheduled. 4

August 22 Barker contract extended one year.

August 21 Hunt requests reimbursement for $500 not
previously claimed. Given to (Tertelin
by Hunt's administrative assistant,

O3Bucie R. Hardester)in May 1961.

able to keep the Station informed on
Diaz Lanz activities in time to thwart
plans. Also turned up possible lead
toward penetration Julio Lobo activities
Reported on creation of the JGCE, an |

August With the cooperation of Fiorini, ca |

Reinaldo Pico as Secretary of Labor.
The report by Barker lists all the
group's officers with red underlining
the names of Felipe Rivero Diaz, former
Brigade member, and Pico.

September 12 { Johnson! informs Barker on plans for
“strike against Cuba using napalm bombs.

Coubi to Bernard Barker, British Embas
Moscow, USSR.

Coubi reutrn address is Apt. 3208 West
Marina Tower, 300 North State St., |

September 24 Cancellation date on letter from ee |

_ Chicago, Ill, Photo attached dated 8/
"It seems ages since we last met, and
a matter of fact it is, but I hope you
won't have to read this twice to find
out where it came from." f

oreoie? Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ____

MT AT. , le

ty Aa aA Bt A AB A AQ’ AB @ B BS SB



— — — —- — — — — —

Classification: __SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted $
from ClA—controlled documents.) é

BARKER, 1963

September Barker receives information(from f
Pico)regarding the JGCE and Paulino
Sierra.
Jack Griffin said to have been working
with Bosch this month, making two
strikes over Cuba. f

yy p eee eae ' : i a
Pedro Diaz Lanz makes a speech criticizing
i President Kennedy.

November: 3

November 5 ea Pico is approached by Ray who is seeking
unification of JURE with Sierra's group.

6 November 14 Barker reports regarding persistent f
rumors that Ray produced the defection

of Carlos Franqui, a Cuban who fled to
France and reportedly received $200,000

o to $300,000, This considered to be
consistent with an alleged plot of a
deal worked out between the United
States and the USSR to overthrow Castro
and establish a Tito-type government
acceptable to both super poowers.

November 25 Barker's name appears on CIS censorship
list. Barker under investigation as a
possible CIS agent. His mail will be
intercepted and he will be under sur-
veillance.

Mrs. Eusebio Mujal had been approached
by a U.S. agency with a request that

she send her relative, Regino Boti, a
member of Castro's cabinet, a memo offer:
ing him the provisional Presidency of 6

November 14 Barker receives information that f

Cuba if he would act against Cuba.
November-December (Geico) reporting to Barker re: JURE.
oa f
February Barker's contract extended one year.

[gohnson| arranging support aspects for
ancoi23 Classification: s

| Classified by derivation:



—_— — — — — — — — —

Classification: Boned

(This form is to be used for material extracted

a from ClA—controlled documents.)

BARKER, 1964

strikes against Cuba by Bosch of the
MIRR, who is‘planning a strike over
Havana. The plane to be used was pur-~
chased in Arizona.

(Pico) reports he.was asked to join JURE,

ee ee

May 1.26 , Barker is polygraphed in connection
fa with the investigation of possible CIS
ties. Nothing derogatory found.
a Shows he still feels great. affection
Lf for Tony Varona. He knows t ellowin

CIA personnel by true name: QJ: és Noe
(Back-stewart) Art Avignone, Howard Hun’
03

July 20 - August 21 Barker in New York City receiving basi
tradecraft training at the request of
DeSmond Fitzgerald.

August 7 State Department reaches the decision
that Barker lost his U.S. citizenship,
must wait five years then apply for
naturalization. f

POA granted.

October 1 Notation in Pedro Diaz Lanz fil .. Droller:
"Bender never met Lanz."

November 24 Reported by INS that Barker file has
either been lost or misplaced.

s twvin Noveriber 18 Marcos Diaz ‘Lanz reportedly engaged in
ams smuggling operation using alias "Pedro
Garcia." Marcos a member of Minuteman in
Florida. Made anti-Johnson statements that
is Johnson elected "they", meaning the
Minuemen, would have to make anned revolt.

December Richard Zaragosi tells Barker he would
assassinate Castro 12/20/64. 4

reportedly affiliated with Rolando
Masferrer and the anti-Divalier Haitia

20rca2g Classification: f
, | Classified by derivation:



W aBWABDABARABRBRSB BB.

1965

February

April

1966

January

April
July 31

August 8

1972

(No date)

1974

2068139

—_———

Classification: __secrer =.

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
BARKER, 1965

Contract extended one year.

Receives information regarding a raid
by the MIRR from Fiorini and Johnson.

Receives information tegarding the
ransacking of Varona's house. $

Barker reportedly has theory that Cast:
using the bolita racket to fund agents
in the U.S. CO expresses concern that
Barker may becoming too involved with
underworld elements.

Barker recieved 4 threatening phone call:
from an individual identifying himself
as "Jerry Walker."

Pico also recently received threatenin
phone calls.

Barker reportedly has a large number S$
contacts in the community. He is now
used primarily as a refugee debreifer.
Some of Barker's contacts are lsuspecte
underworld characters.

Barker's contract to be extended thru
7/31/66 and terminated 7/31/66. f

Terminal bonus $1500.

Barker to move to Chicago to work with
Rauland Corporation, a subsidiary of
Zenith Radio Corp.

Gavia Morates) talking about Barker
ays Barker with tell authorities ever’
thing he knows.

Memo in DCD - instructions not to talk t
Barker if contacted.

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ____

rl ell



mm meee

Classification: ___ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

BARKER, 1976

1976 Barker sent a letter to the agency
3/31/76 for which Chris Hopkins does a
name trace on 3 individuals, presumably
mentioned in Barker's letter:

Father Jose Leonardo Vazquez
Father O'Farrill
Marcos Diaz Lanz

1977 : Marita Lorenz alleges that Pedro Diaz Lanz
and Frank Sturgis were involved in the
if Kennedy assassination.

aR DBA SB SB SB SB BD A

2060413, Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

Te ee eS eT es Te .

pe
if
4
p
4
é
§
6
4
4
6
4

