# 180-10110-10083

## Page 1

180-10110-10083

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT STATiON SYNERY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10110-10083

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 089-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS

HARDWAY, DAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/15/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Box 4.

v9.1

NH 50955

DooId: 32263488

Page

1

---

## Page 2

"'t.

KENNEDY

008319

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 5/12/2802M=10:45

I.

Identifying Information:

name Barbara (Aolines asset goshona.

Address

Type of Contact:

Telephone

* Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

Barbara said that she

had never heard of a second

sovie photo base. Ogave her the

crypt and the said she would

have Russ institute a search

at Warrenton. Me asked her

i the Collet ang ship said

that as for as site knew

thay were Me pointipes and

die online sendera it

Ill.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

over

NW 50955. DocIdsaZAratek elage 2

---

## Page 3

the other two man

the othere a go see taly.

She said she would check. The ther

pointed out to her that we had

was that ue

it. We explained to her thata

He asked her stery to fund

there were unilateral tape

she asked how she could

find somethint spenta

her that was here problem.

45 minutes after arrival

HH 50955 DocId: 32263488 Page 3

Dan Hardway

---

