# 180-10144-10105

## Page 1

180-10144-10105

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11112406

8|15/78

File Titte: Isaacs. Hacold R.

Custodial Hact: IP/SCB- MHCHAOS

This file contacas saly memos dated 2o Feebwary 1966 and

9 may 1968 fern the Pereport Office, separtment of State

По ларон on the part of the CIA is indicated

10144-10105

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

11112407

8/15/78

Hile title: bases. Hocold

201-18446

A wrew of Hould base's 201 file indicates that the bulk

of the matual contaied theres concerns the period 1930-1935.

during which time he sewed as a journalist in shanghs and

was solved in communist Party front actinties.

The only wedences if It rattlet in baals appears in

the 201 file in the polling drument

1) 25 Tune 195/ Memorander) ouglas D. Euke I) Reputy

keen - to PT/CS; Jubjeet: Haveld R Lease, Request for de formation

This dresent requests an unpination nameckeck for

pepse of attemering valedity of lages that bakes is

sympatte to qnd a connected. with communist actuaties.

It appears that vesses, in his position as an addict in the

cast & proset for the tod toundation a in a potter to

he in contact s wet

nogran developed e

e covert agent o the CIA who was called

upon cy the Ford Houndation to prent some suggestions for

a the best progras rd tidates remain inau of WA

irection w/this covet agent.]

2) Поuтви 1951 Pennandum, Secuty Office, lobert Wunngham

to last: Queen for Polly borderation.

Hes mens appears response to request in #/ abore. It

states that leaves had been unnected with at least 2 vactions

of lonest Party while Wing i thee lact and thet istere

caution should he und a contacting or as ating with Sulet"

ruther investigatton indicates that while sweet dexes any ca?

VITA

3/go

---

## Page 3

SEUREI

11112408

communict Party afflation, his acreation i actuttie are deghly

quitiable ; is pattied sympatly her ast puetty see

unquelfedly steed

3) A hose Refence Horm dated 26-Ture1956; Hile No. IG-5237 ;

Sauce-CI/OA; Subject: Hacold R. Leaded

His form states " Then a a Ustucted CI/DA folder on

the sleet of this 201 cheld I RI/AR File, Hask-CIA-Pers 4.".

4) Drument Trafe and loss Refecekle form deted I Sep 1958.

Indecates tet there is a ratulted CI/DA folde on this subject

of this 201 cheld under (º5234.]

5) 9 Jakuary 1975 Rurew of 201 File oR U. 5. utezen categouzes

He 201 file on leases As a countruntelligence case

1) Deuconalty (201) File Requent Dated: 26 dug:ST Trom: FE/2/CE

File is marked "Nonsensetive"

No. "Sore Document"

Action Deck: FE/ 2/ LE

tile in i Penanent Charge end is

" "Restricted"

There are several FBI reports on fades Which all all sealed

SLONET

'/ga

---

