# 180-10144-10028

## Page 1

180-10144-10028

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatic n System.

Identification Form

Agency Inforn ation

Date:

3/31/201

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10144-10028

RECORD SERIES:. CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 29-43-04.

Document Infi mation

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

HSCA

CIA

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ORGANIZED CRIME

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 21

v9.l

NH 47055

DocId: 32272315 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Perwo of open a dutie

garden,

11111087

15 Juri 1977

investigate for panta on

5 Савані:

a, Ramn Den Kesteren

6. Rolanto MAGener Pegas

a Luciano Nuver

de gase de la iomente

c. Jese Quintana

joaquin tits cortege

тайна, тити

MILASH

0002225

2. Ino i the 3 Cribara minterid en

1970 она з ниту

meno

Ruseli or rancina

віткою

betire Rodid lizary spice up coke

as 1271.

4 Det cy.

office of Sent has no such

NH 47055

DocId: 32272315 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRI:T

1088975 Nievés

11111088

is Released in Mach 1965 1hu serg

a says scatace

mpy where he wis of infest do deaders

- Augut 1965 enpinuS

- NoW 1945 to pan 1946 I opusteal

ustent to D DO

Shiam

He is mintent an Ma pem Rendli

file as a pusenal

tuna y Rinal It

is father noted hich shimon been Renal

but nature o seat if the offa/ recal

30 Huyent/976

- Cuban centas of Preli

* Juan Orta

was an iffinal of the Centro Gent

Senter Tropcank. Onta was negenue sellefes

льня о так но anaa we

3. Tiny V carny

Whin fun in was not samuel

i camping out the can aganis cuto

de Vanu urn to une

NH 47055

DocId: 32272315

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRE

8002297

11/11089

husets of his an to cary aut the mingl

Kana als anto used les son initias

to arsest lum in thes epent bet there is

- спро in гда б Мо мігічня

3. Rielle hada man, ales pussy a

Minni, lumas Marry a

"mues

Whit also used thi- names barcia beney

and body Lain was unable t

fe No info in regard to dend on

sumn, or Mingn in d/

Merco 15 Fet 19z2

4.

the Agry was aware that Ricel

penna to pee in preen myle

put should we not infere com

мах і талів та зи а сли

use as to ru coquern it maca

I He dean you stay, thr was

suspent dom. Pad or sames

an his bhay fui ninery bach t reem

Notarlo of

SECRE

NH 47055 DocId: 32272315.

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECHET

11111RSO

1002999

mena 20 Maz 197/

Enter Tel

head tan engaged of tryke

не ринку кри Вічний срак. Н Реале

I on Soutendn1942-64201c1trcl

Аиси On A Kyle bad.

In May 10, 971 M Tex said Wate

nich sumber ma ten i back the source sals pern

an insteader.

such putting would' scare thungry!

Tu Intertel Stras armore of a slims ge

contars muri petre Pete Pala

hid fun salm a nume y hu sey

- SEGRET

NW 47055

DocId: 32272315 Page.5

---

## Page 6

SEL RET

008287 ena

19 NON 1978

For: D CiT

saly Rosell, ling

11111091

M. Sepulo Inade to Menen yu open ey

5. Mo mdun ado ted that be bad nect

one fR on vened dissons stale very leg,

He net brew tum carusy yar, tess, cat

as given to condespin to me was a

1 of the ca manly Mens in t Spres

Niken wand rush, if k war on put a

тиких ор ни силі,

";

6. Male to apach into how Mona pers

As Tuted reach was to coad gaff wrote

the Ms punanie, lu gued to introduce

he fun sam to do ten

No may surd or paide

8. 1 my the prich ay 25 Sept, Miln

mhodued to sam stagy at the touterictla

It was serad meter of her ten resty.

SECRET

NW 47055 DocId: 32272315

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

0902232

11111092

I him as a colineer operatiry

between Havana = Anar Thit le

san plater in Sumay "Supplenut plane

9, In descing tho ponte method

accampun this nacson sam seggett

виду

the could be fund ampue

parent pill tet inula de paca in

astros ford or dant, it want bea

mud moe set area. Sam indiate

hat he tad a inspertire nemance

u re pun of pranorta, a len

special who hai

hun-t pagants fun the gundy

mu/, who still end ann to Casso

ud was in a fauncial buid.

seved men y upind attens, one

apparent gst cole feel o pati act

the arenat ie suggested anitas

candidate note sate sered airpos

Izi goe ten in deered thit Da. Bridey

al the appain-infloren propers

It put and coca- willony it bundle

that de may be serene, in for

SECRET

NW 47055 DooId: 32272315

Page 7

---

## Page 8

1 Felle2

SECRETI

i, May1942 Hany ford are on Case

offees o it. is not brown of ths sue

11111093

0002203e

17, Allegal with Nits: 1167

194-

Hang upati to gary suit les

It was his kulf,

Va - Dec 142+ pu/94

the ray in amster in lynter

iner he actuay faced demare.

an appeal.

20, 12 NIN 1970.

Malun calla 2 Camell do aduse

ward a cal fon Ten Wildin who stated.

azeal exhaust o stars deportatione.

if soman aside mi

of his diterp in App

21.18 Not 1926. DCT. lugds duc

not a ducat de malia was so.

конг у Адиці

сй кри w/ rus spend, te finter

My putting a t it lin perm

/am ALl June 181/971

SECRET

47055

DocId: 32272315 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

wattop, last of it on fuit of Machile,

contest at Fontanure

-N for we late conte ill

1111164

Fil 2311121

Once le callen in Clus radeot bers

Sam Cancana to line up a cares.

Hu conficia files report that o liud

"gany isnteust and an intent on Me

shump brennen in Cuba". Hener, the

amassinatin plol.

19/22 /2ec190-7

Mino For Recond

Терем Спит tars A mad Osbom

Dir of sent

I picket of our aart

file var vallit 7 tu

To consider

ві вика п різово чини не

3 Hay indiald that he thought the

prey of sitting fight " must de chuglex

that du felt moute lu a sripe

mater for the Deite su tore pussina

s determen on ani offair, eau my buis.

what and cace tit

fun not caddig

cHam to work

Arize

SECRET

Ht 47055 DooId:32272315

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

0002236

11111095/ Bec ller

1e A auy requntal lendn mestep ar

Papith an sih des o Oshomm Dei ise

2. 26 NONT1142 R cAle Hany

who met buin ar madion Koed, for

3. lus

thy" bunpd" sãto qou Aglimo

tuny mii Re da

". m kasm.

28 New Speat 11 horen at Berteda

4. Aacuep to Aiy+

carrng c.

Kin toinD te Morgen ra

radio statm ni san fase. Not

wrrud re mech s dea lu terusat

-R said he hied not semn feneene

ence 1165 (Papich duding 2 mey

sspend +1. Хину.).

- K v/n staii or engy thael he

waded lulp fun. Agenez.

- Foly told baey e herehan

nuly N/ CH. ocands ml1a4 o lay

muty e'crened iadon maluon

in cal wen de uuid pe dur inFeaser

Ie stang mnit deat he mest Aeero

statir y cac. Df Itur a gosl care,

Wk A ay peca the Kpy muit eest

ipluna ts haru , ne enali aelh

iti not agna cani, Mue saung cud rf

Aoly s hi witl will itaud.

the Iraing

monpua at nagurnhm

mnkut wn nur i e puked Ayee

NH

17055

DocId:32272315 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

0002297

11111096

He had mt the hit way to fey

and the wes we ted hand his prote

8 Nev 1914

Hany is soure

e cauld m. Dot 22ad 8221h let

Hang refund to sucas Ri atti

-R wondeed up Negeng Celld ust

As as nude for her an it did for mu

use long o had, the fly aheat thie.

Osben o Hary at tuche

R quito. =

= vehements biller re

Makur ardecay mike would "sell ampar

dun. the uver te puter his nennut."

Dor had sent ya nen clippin

re use pranana.

-Re said leat cana

from Sen. tend are were de was stil to

Ela Crip Malia

28 April 47

she had ben indie can an equite aque cer

wells red le had told Mapi

when Apa dell on here supera.

upset pand if he

had Me in as chunt sure

NH 17055 DocId: 32272315 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECR :T

ni 1950s neen 'apa dory degal mat

for tar Viper tan.

ucrap that these murdul spent

тих,

7. Clared A laá detecrate rape to

Ar Main to here hi fent.

han mise than a passeng acpuntang u

Mapa.

NSA,

Angn realt a Pat Cayne fu

94 Anna

grey bany parme a fe

luni debas

спити ани рогін а виу скетри

co castro pegas not papa cousin to

11111097

SEGRET

NH 47055

DocId:32272315

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRIT

02275

11111098

Shenken, Long, pend rep, ford hire

in miners appear:

3, Enstewald-heil edented same

Col. Rowerds,

In the cas of fan, id Dubser

s a capple of his technicias new come

Malu add if " son jun" are m

12e Morgan, had and Mall Mas de

mplia n

Maska Malin an hi Mum the bert

in that At ale du get ge

Br T.V. An tast Man and on

magh o will plaid. When try say

13=-

SECH

NH 47055

DooId: 32272315

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRIT

fam thra a ser of cactuses

that nee

musea on the pace nand that an up

- Minus moonies da Topteent

SECRET

NH 47055 DocId: 32272315

Page 19

---

