# 180-10143-10134

## Page 1

180-10143-10134

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MAKIWHY

substitute Alias

28 MAK 1978

for

Box 28

Foldu 11

trUE NAME.

0256#13

Interview of Frank Estancona, 3

3/28/78, by san Hardway.

Mirest

condlacknowledge

the release letter and

that he had seen a copinder.

stood it

signment on thaid that

had endlesment

in sed that e had been

tilland on the po

in addition to the flee

taps, the meries aton had

some harlet that hard that

256

the photo operations.

y Machoney tran

starconsaid that then

was only one photo base oin

the Cuban Entrepay. 'He was

FOR RELEASE

180-10143-10134

---

## Page 2

SECRET

025>

estancond said that there I

was some other type of

was some other type of

chen presties no theren

Med tanet sent the

production

from this bas

itover torRobert

fambernarditor process

he left he was replaced by

25>

being insole in any shito

as sure that man fould

plate aeration because he had

estancona.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

0258

said

that stancon to

rememberabout the

Mexico station was tha

258

Eleno Hidden was" a mayor

cog" in the techinsical!

aperations in Mexicolle

worked outside as a supply

and bis it man canical

apperations

"estancona suas not sure

but he thought that

was David Tilsteal

brother-in-law. The also

thought that?!

had

been involved. in some

kind of surellageration.

outside Contract Jagent

who was involved, as a

technician, tow all the listenin

---

## Page 4

259

SECRET

0259

to do with fall the technical

3 Estanconassaiat that

thin scott was a reat

"manager" who was

hyper-dedicatedland ven

demanding

" "He said that.

Is files were

system

efficient registry

were extensive. He said that

Scott would not tolerate

incompetance or lack of

thoroughness.

very competant, who helped

Estancona said that

Englitas the loviet

---

## Page 5

SECRET

0260

member whe

on Nablettas chief replaced

estan

the chief off Us

ex-FBI man that Scoll

260

Some way, with the Bar

of Pigs.

SECRET

---

