# 180-10144-10412

## Page 1

180-10144-10412

-...

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2/24/78

Pedro Diaz hanz

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE..

201

# -24 ou 59

Routing $ Recond Sheet

to Hunt reud 30/10

forwarded 2 vor.

-of Diar lauz fle.

drop laflers and prob bombs over Havana 2400f59

hay fey 26 Oct 59 piloted sy hans to disrupt

castro rally.

- Dispatch.

23 06t 59

attached-sample. of

bea/lets dropped fion Diaz Lans

plene 21 oct 59

- Dispare

18 Sept 59:

Ne: operationae

to Chiet WHD from Havana COS

PDL

228 group.

Crypts...

PDL

said he had fore to hians and talked wADL

Bat was; who told

him that he needed a han

i his Miami. onganization, the sesson te has

captain

in the luban sir

fooce Who was millin

to join him...

He instructed

The subject to see his.

Habara contact and here.

Suby. asked tin

had This

Station

10144-10412

---

## Page 2

C

C

2/24/78

Lauz

207

PLDL

exfiltration info...

QD CHAR

said.

as Pas has Optate.

Subi.

also

contacts

.in Miami

ODACID

- DOC. Cross ref for 201-259120 (Lanz 201 file)

Ricard

Les LORIA

31, Passport 09552 4 Diaz Lanz

valle - ca.

128, аз

ase 32,

passport 10693 left Costa Pira for Miami-

Fla 0

24 Dec 58 and

Mexico on 31 Dec 58

rentered costa Rica from

remo. for record

7 Ang 59

Re: conversation

approx one-we prior

betw.

Bugene R. Gontalez and lur Alfonso Moscoso.

preer amo. from Ecuador to us s ex brother-o

of former president Galo Plaza of Ecuador

Moscoso told me in strict confidence that has

Gained to have into and down proving

_ prend renador. Amb to a$s (Escudero).

Diaz Lan

red approx.

8100, 000 from pro-Batista frozos to dep

I restify

before U.s. lory.

- Dispatch

(karley)

• 59 = To Wrief WH DiV from Miam

Re: Meeting N/ @DOLAS, A DCHAR,.

QOCOVE

Dension y pats art; posible procedura - re

broadcastine from varion

positions in the Caribbean Sea

---

## Page 3

(

2/24/78

Pedro Diar Lanz

DDO

pIcovE- described at. later of group, most intell

Group was cautioned about need

for security.

"However, there o

a dose and apparenth

unshakeable

relationship with people like

Frank Tonini I Other people 0/ whom

_were close during lhe revolution. I hare

repeatcal

talles too much. But as and I (sic) we

proceeds with this group, it has to be done mith

That he and

- In March OdorE went to Belg. If rank of Amb.

to negotiat deal re:

1P Come Personalay paid Kim. Utko of credit

Deal cost of mil uh

- Dispatch

4 Aug. 59.

_To chief WH DiN Fron Miamilkarni

Report on briani base involvembo in Arrival of

Pedro Diaz Laws in U.S.

Lazz party- Diaz Lauz his nife Tania, fergio Diaz

Brell; Carlos bchegoyen..

Echegoyen't Bruell had

charsered boat to

pick up biaz come. wanted to

about any several dye!

- Diaz concerned

Major 0110 07.

Diar.

aeoprte.. GAs attemptsto Ut him rest

Tentative plan....

was Diaz would taken toon INS,

put in a secure. plece, mored to another area

in country, put three mtensive interrogation

ther. removed to foreig

ance where.

he world I

sarfaced. Gen Cabele expected to discuss matter, Su

---

## Page 4

C

2/24/78

Pedro Diza Laur DDO

re: turn over of Diaz to kannle

complicationo them

ser in edifferent versos of

Twhat passed betu.

Gen Cabell and ben. suring; appearance of Eastland

comitee rep.

- Arile - Pire Exploited

Pearson- Wash Post - 7-24-59-"Defeetiy..

шт..

Memo for Record 15. July 1959.

Pe: Termony of Oner Lane.

(testified 144 Fuly.

Fidel, Raue, Lilma Castro, Ernedo Guevara, Anton

Manuel Pineiro, Armas

Ramiro valdez, fan

fun Lanusa, carlos Frangui, Oem.AB3770

David Salvador,

Bayo, Frank Torre..

tp. laue.

asticle Mal 59. "Verdadera Estatura cirica..

Pedro.

Bices Diaz Laur

CIA Memo of conversatio 10 Jah, 59.

Tel. conversation w/ Herbes ire

Dir of intelig

Bureau of Immigration w/T.I. Flores

Braft Memo for Record sek (initraled).

Re: Diaz Lanz case

Miami which was used fo bring Diaz trom Cuba, had

gone t0 see.

PAssi they..

Bres. immed. after.

their relase

---

## Page 5

2/4/78

Pedro Diaz Lanz:

enzen reputation as shady budressman

They said schroeder (INS. toll Diaz her is to..

senate sab Committee; would

receive 100% us fois support in overthronin

Castro.

Prion 10 Diaz departure the lasan fir Force

purchased one c46 and one B.25 airert.

in Potinis name...

fioriniasked. Byes

plans $ sell

2 i compared sa la 2 ell

Dricussion.

Paper - 7 7wh

• Diaz Lanzi aniva. 59.

Re Diaz-publicity e

- case tian die to foreign LA stasions 2 t, 59.

- Requests max press and radio exploration of

defectin 20 Fune of Diaz Lanz

/ recommend

tions on passiolas of story.

Dispatch.

2 Fuly 1959 to Chief. WHT from COS Habou

re Diaz Lanz-Misc -

enclosual-2 copies 7-hete

fron Dizz lanz to cuban presidet..

Cable 22 June 54 To Dir from Havana

re: ceparture 07 Diaz Lauz for U.1, Regueotin

DURGE not divulge.entry POPRIME of pedd

Diaz Lanz

Cable.

21 June 59

to Dir from. Havana.

w/.hehp_of Him Bore

Americar,... Pres. Aerodex

Diaz Laws departure Com useng Borge yacht

Laurequests no publictty.

---

## Page 6

C

(

2/24/78

Pedro Diaz Lanz

DIO.

suformation Report 15 Fun 59

Re:

Chief of tin Forces Confidential statements abret need

for counter revolution aguinot Castro.

source: US basinessman

, operator of private consultin

ompany. Aso rep. ra major Us aireraft Manufact

Spoke at length of source regarding symptoms ot

Castros communist tendeucies.

Cable:_ 7 Jan 59

to Dir from Santiago de Cuba:

Re: 1 fall Batista Stunned Beano resel

2. Cuban sir sore demotilized. hit be built up tom

se intestigated.. fr

atrocities..

Fiorini (7) From Diaz hanu Chief Rebel Air A

Cable 25 Nor 58 to Dir from Mexcia Microan,

Rept 3 tons.

Cubau rebel arms confiscated

/American captures - of abans- Pedro Ruiz Lanz=

proban Diaz lanz) and Amer = Frank Rishini

_ Forini

named co-pilot and onner plane C-46...

Fiorini know

a nitret crane nic

picardo de la Lorie

Cable 22 Nor 58

rept. Cuban rebels and Amer. w/ C-46 captured at

passingan Airpos Michoaca.....

Captured (parzine List)

anz,... Trank Fiorin.

- Cable 14 Nor 58

Rept: Richarda de la Lorie - brought air plane Pholring.

Ariz., scheduled for departure 1z or 13. Non Pr...

rex. enronte renezuela.

Diaz Lane wil prob. accorps

de la horie.

- Cable: 11 Nor 58

$ DiazLauz

Ricardo de la torre in San Francisco: Fiorini Left hex

---

## Page 7

C.

for Frisco

car car night 4 Nor. meet pilots.

De la forie And Diaz

_Ariz. but expect retur

- Cable 2 Nou 58 to Dir from hex Cior

Man tran. W/ subis identifiedad Frank Rrorin

Men prat. pedro huir Diaz Lauz and Ricardo de.

a horie, poss. gory renezuela.

- Cable_

3000 38

_to Dir from tex Cit

Ric. de la Lorie and Diaz Lauz an

rex Cit by las

21 01 58. Believed had asa trouble at border:

Unidentified man accompanied them

(

addresses.

Diaz lanz,

pilot of Brecheratt plane N-48-9, whis esits kingsill

Castro_conrier or pilst.

personal preetings.

- 201 file request

1o '/ Analysis section...

5 Ful 1959.

housensne

---

## Page 8

Samitized

PEDRO DIAZ LANZ

DDO

- News astides -

Angost Apri! 1976

NY. Dally

News. - 21 April 1975 by Paul Meskil.

(

- Dispatch to Chief from Chief.

DELETED - GET FUL

COPY

Progress_ Rept.

1-31 Ang 63

Piorini- able to keep informed of

air raid over cuba..

• Information

Then passed to local security agencies in time

for them to thwart plans.

- Daily Summary ling 63

Plans:

V Fiorini to head

any The a eat cans at woe to appear, an

heir hikiams Ranch there.plane to.

se used. pe raid it lates. Fionini send

size and fled w/ nuts and bolt for straphe

Ranoon Garcia + former Cubar aireines pilor

to have participated in raid.

- 8 May 63 - Fiorim told souree he had bean

approached. on Marcos to patch no differeuce

and cooperate in. "anti-casso actint" Sai

---

## Page 9

C

begoes from cuban in wash the had helped

air strike

turn indireet channels...

Aanz bros-assisting m

sale of yacht.

"sovini had been working

u The bros. until a falling

out linion is now evidently being repaired."'

(

чето-

Robt Swanner, Robe Thompson -

Riot

20 allegedly shot downs Jer

Cuba is..

Dec.

. 196%.

- Memo to S.J. Grogan, asst to Director.

hampered by stories -

made.

Swanner.., Esini

drop....

Porke Claimo

сажами

for leaft

8 Dec. swanner mercepted in hassan tet it

Massan br

Tried to get

fy to Great Exuma Island, out pers

10 Dec....

'to 77 Laudedale to pick

and tini, swan point use gro,

Swanne$ Thompson flews

Andros Island.

swannel.

and plane unir sar 63- stony plane shot don

---

## Page 10

C

In fact.

Porke daim GA Sponsorship.

CiA SPONDOn

March 62

denied.

midication from castros speechle

No what happened

se a serferences, induding:

into on other "elements of incident an

- Mrs.

having drive....

swanned,

Fownter.p

to It Lander dale to lond

boat w. leafleto

$500.00 checker peptain

Miss. Thompson.

r, Bionfire.

to Sivanners

- Ms. swanners reptd trip to Andros Iloud

wy her for and friend of he husband

reen please,

Thempton i Others.

callo to his. Surenna,

- Role 07

Gene As bury and Horman Gratshy,

Conadsky)

Ref to Matin - prob. John Linent Martino

as repte

nor ampld by CIA

---

## Page 11

boluine

12/9/60 Cable to thrector fa. wAvE

Hamilton impressed of mans sinenty s potential

CODBIAS RORIAS enthusiastiz over ref

trip but wanted very careful preparation in

order to avoid amy poss. fail. Suggested ample

advance publicity order condition dost

foverment to granting necessany usas

and landing permits

QD Bias speeding up work on A/S which

can be ready 0/A 15 Dec. Plane

can accomodate number named WAVE

2951

Is comment: HQS approved planning

Diaz hanz propaganda "Flight of truth"

as proposed HQS by TWICKER

12/8/60 Cable to Dir Ar WAVE

carlos Oscar Echegoyen Leon plans expose.

in leading magazine.

re: KUBARK

-(Ran

wilsay - KUBARK backing AMIRON (Ray o

MRR) W/ funds & equipment AMIRON

Leftist I comminst dominated froup.

and " Fidelistas sin Ride"

KUBARK

gives AMIRON talf million per month

cores operating costs.

hereal number plans

---

## Page 12

Diaz Lauz.

Varone

AMDIDI

turnished AMiRON by KUBARE and

location.

i ever

• will reveal training sites Guat, PBPRIE

personnel working n/ AMDIP I and

AMIRON plans for invasiva Cuba

- Expose AMDD, for buying off

KUBARK personnel Wash.

- Claims discussed above $ 5 Nov 62

invasion plans AMIRON for Guat. W

Sourine,

Two men trom KOBARK assured

Echefoyen funds would be w/held

from support. AMIRON. Capable camily.

ont threat.

once close Diaz hauz, but now

distrusts hirn.

could attempt dis credit Eclegoye

6 Dee 60 cable To Dir from GOLD

recommend candidates tor certain fieldo.

Laure: Enrique. Laca

Snident- Jose Ignacio Taro.

•Soldier - Manuel Artime

GOLD-Sounding out opinion/desirability:

of induding Diaz hour specifically.

---

## Page 13

US iss00 obtained from private sources tor

torepair BUS. Further states aireratt.

repd lan intends make leafet

drop on or about 30 Nov. Possible

KUBARK funds parsed AMVANG Z

foor prop use how being diverted repair

aircraft.

Has policy re no ODyKE sponsored

overflight from BPPRIME STU Stands.

MASH requested take immed. steps.

to stop flight. If cannot accomplish

this buy pesuanion notty

local auth

poss such a flt to luable them

impound aircraft. Essential aurid

poss. such indep- air ops jeopardize

our air ops induding use ope

Locka:

4. Reatize Lanz may be polit. asset.

It so can best be used that purpose

w/in AM RASP.

WH. comment: Twicker states Lanz

requests funds to repair personally

onned 8.25 at coSt of Us $5.000,.

Arto wants Us 82, 240 to give hink

training to 9 pilots to 3 mos.

---

## Page 14

6 Dec 60 Cable 10 IMGOLD Havana to

Dir.

Rodriguez Tamaya "El Mexicano" offering G2.

info ne Diaz hanz group. Report world sut.

subjeets I i prison, claims Tamayo

Claimo female friend Draz hauz working

Miami airport abso 0-2 agat

- suffest biaz hanz be cautioned re our

donts loyalty his immed. friends.

-Dispotch 29 NoV 60 to Chief WH div fr.

chiet os, Havana.

versation set varona i Sac 2o Nore

varona says of laur - "a yourg man,.

somewhat in perious, who is how

working with us.

28 NOV 60 Cable to JMASH from DIR

"1. Disapprore para 3% 7 ref. HQS does

not

desire additional cuban pilots $ does

not with fire: Diar Laur and compony

false impression by instituting toen

limited training program

1. AMVANG2 adored HOS he passed

---

## Page 15

- Cable 24 NOV 60 to Dir faTMASH

1- Diaz Laws pined AMRASP britying

pilots: Abel Hera Corton, Frank

Forini; Francisco Lano, Evangelista

Mursuli, Ramon P. Fuentes, Nesto

Awarez Fernando barcia..

Marcos Diaz hanz also jord

2 Shortly after joining AMRASP, Diaz

sypested to AMHAWK est. 07

sper. mission group compras

above personnel, all of whom,

according to Diaz are qualified

as A mechanies. The grou

would drop AMRASP leafrets

smau touns & cooperatives $ could

Hy cargo mistions when required.

3. To prepare themselves for standby

radiness Diaz has requeded

AMHAWK (& ALHAWK. has gueried

Twicker) for funds to: (A) rehab

the personally: onned B25 A/Co.

Diaz at cost 0f approx: DLS$000

B) Moride, pilotN/ Linke

traine time 18 pilots at 10hs

monthly, at cost of Dls 8 per

hower)

and (c) counde purchase

---

## Page 16

af Hoas equipped Cessna 180 $/or 210

bor infil /exfil ps.

1. Dies is proceeding w/ B-28 rehab

na loan 12,500 from Miguel Angel

queredo, for which, accordin

AMCHIRP-L, he with air drop

Bohemia over Caba.

5. While ralize present polia

precedes US -bused flights, desire at

minimum maintain flight

proficiency this integrated froup whose.

current i future activities could be

monitored, cirected by the newly -

established joint CabanAmes ops

section of the mil. commision.

Beyond being a pilst Diver Lanz excla

a certain mystigue which The press ha

been quich to recos. Thas he is

curren propaganda I polit. asset

as wele as a potential milit. asset

6. AMHAWK commented somewhat

aprically That Diaz Lans joined

AMRAST primart to solve hi.

elon. probs. However TWICKER bliev

Diar highly motivated i recognizes.

---

## Page 17

AMRASP as mainstream anti-Castro as

Temp. solution has been to assign Dizz

pop to transport commission, which how

punctime under MIL commission,

but tunds are not currently budgeted

An link trainer time.

7. Reguest Has approve inital link

mainer refresher of Dis 960, 15 hrs.

each pilot, them monthly cost of D4S 640.

Not likely training to extend beyond 3 mos.

• семіна мани в пр 27a2

above relatively minor expenditure

- Document transfer $ cross-ret. 27 Sep -60

Diaz Laur made offer of assist by susi

oF. 201-829376

- 120et 60 cable to Die fre Lond

Re: developments in FRI

- Dr. Sanchez trangs les lett 7RD following.

a disagreement w/ other leaders. He is now.

joining... forces w groups led by Diaz Laur,

conte Aquero... others.

- varona appta coord. of FRD - in Spite opp

Fusto Carillo.

---

## Page 18

Memo for record re: Rept reeting w/sergio

Rojas

BriBernard Er Reichhandt

in too -27-52-07-

Spoke to Rojas before planned to departure

to riami to see ricardo Lorie, in an

effort to give other side Than Anti-F

Rojas relatively objective but on balance

favored New as young revolutionants is

Mianza de Liberacion. Analyzed Sinatin

became rep. i FRD for MRR, ther

represented out, on views to exclison of

Men interests Lamented That number of

young men ce Chira, Diaz Lanz,

ino Diaz (Resum.; Rejas unawar

vino Diazis mission)

wasted by

not being put to use. top as result of

differences beto. young revol. I FRD

"Los vijos's Politros in FRD 100 far to

right. Asked if us. might lend

support to more Then the group. wa

Royas

cool. not poss. This time - Too anti-

ERD sentiment. Fell politicos of FRO

seff-reeking. Young revol suffering bitterness.

---

## Page 19

disillisionment

suggested possets meeting with PRD - Membes

but not s principals- lounter suffers made

Rojas suggest priends, es: Conte Aguero, horie

to approach FRD again

- Memo 19 sept 60 for: C/WH/4/CI tro Gerand.

Re: Refues/ for BBi checke

(NOTE: Ans. to check on roya in Panegues file)

wash.

Mianta people reptd in toun - Diaz Lanz,

Conse Aguero, Parague (Drejo), Moginio Nino"

Diar. - could be reached at address of tus.

Anna Maya:

Indicates. Reud into that

Pareque may be lastro plent syget

Buro check on horse and furs.

roga, as

wel as furnith into on Panegue and fa

activittes in US.

Panefues NY address: San Daface HoRd,

65 W. 45r St, RmIE Tel. JAZ-4800

- Memo for: C/WH /4/PA

n SEPT 60

fr: NH/4/E0 - John F. Mallard.

Re: Cubano desirous of meeting 4/ State Dept

Reps.

Sono- Chinea, Pane gre, Diaz Lan 2,.

conte Aguero desire meeting. Indicates st. Dept.

- pesonnel have no desire to see Cusans.

Author

indicates desire sive Casans cold should

---

## Page 20

no encourajement-cannot operat independen

any type of of support on as stance

- Cable

6 SEP 60 10 Dir from MASH. .: Mexilit

ndicates "Caris' in military statt -

relations AMEER $ alanice AMCIGAR

Lines of auth. I reap. MASH committees

badly snarled view recent insistenci

AMEER ho perogative as AMCIGAR

General ill feeling + distrust senior ATASPERS

toward AMEER also applies "his boys".

In military field these include oscar Diar

(ground) ,

orlando Garcia (recruiting),

and Pelipe vidal santago (navad.

Most immed sue - Pedao Diar Lanz tho

walked in reeruiting ofe best nik august

volunteered to join AMRAS? filo7 group as an

individuae. Milit afreed Dead hant fine

pilot, joining AMRASP political plum"

since he founding member coppeting "Hiara"

Nobregas and lilafara one, lukewar.

At juncture AMEER Stepped in, ordered MILOM

alept Diaz Lant, succeeded puttly all

senior mil. staf member in espot. "

Late still unresolved.

---

## Page 21

AMRASPERS afree meeting absolute necessity to

revalidate Their positions naànT AMCIGAN Bee

body § particulant, their positions in respect

indinal ANCIGAR menses (AMEER S

AHHAWK:

- Cable Ang 2a, 60 to Dir from Havana

Parise: Armando Lora Hernandez - Mino man.

He was close to naul Chibas; maintains contar

with Draz Lanz. orf. resistance in Cusa. Reges

anitance

Cable My 1 60 to Dir from Havana

Disseusin in AMYUM-I group more

extusive The financial troubles.

split caused senors internal repercussions

in terms AMYUM-I group receiving via

their channels from MASH That ODVOKE

now supporting Lovie, Nino Diaz, Diar Laur.

PRD form-Control de Personal - PedroLuis

Diaz Lanz

- Memo for Chief WHD Re Mex. Roarke (Bic) Fr

6 Fl 60

fr. I'D Esterine

In interniew of Porke w/ rep. of 00/c in NYS,

Porke said Diaz cans most desering of U.S.

support. Knows Diaz Lanz; planniy do

---

## Page 22

appear on T.V. program NYC 57ahp

said somora have afreed to fire thai lave.

mil. base in Nicara. Will call it Committe

to Rescues. Ame from communita o

similan.

Porke Claimo Spruille

Brada

tentatively agreed to support

committer

- Cable 28 June 1960 1 M184 fr. Dic

Pedro Diar Lauz not connected ERD in ou

way tankley wille brief. WHamment: cond

surfacing in Costa ica of orf. headed Su PDL

- offre remo - 24 te 60 to Chief WH/FI DirTia

MAN: B0b Menold; From: Chief contact

Dinsimi

20 (L/A Branch,

Re: Pedro Diaz Larz.

From FoM. Ashcraft - signed by Hange

In incriew, requesed by lant to ook "cohat

people Think 8 should do expresed desie to

work to over throw Castro.

Not very enthiastate

about anti-castro Frente of. in rexizo Ga...

Reserations about thistworthiness of Artime

Message to the People of Cuba & Brothers of

America of the Cusan Constitutinal"

Crusade Signed 6/16/60 by PD4,

---

## Page 23

Ands Abel Hera Corton; Capt Rabel I.M.

Gonzaleza

- Cable 18 tune 60 70 Dir fri 1484

18. June Diaro Las Amenica: camies:

ad surpacy proup called Cruzada

Cubana Constitueional ste 53 PDL

coron, Gonzalez.

Gible indicates concern for need of controlea

3, coordinated propaganda effort.

Avoid premature releases

- Dripatch 12-Fam60

Chief NH Div, from Miami NHD Rep.

Re: Contact w/ QD Bias 10 JAN60

by Patrick I. Kannley

Indicates biller fend betw.

OBIAS & ODCOVE

ALSO QOCOVE assaulted DICHAR

Drscussed ODCHARS recent trip to Guat. QDBIAS

aware but personally opposed th

sp sine

pocHAR took alony surge Bruel and

Finini. iNs tooe Fiorinis passportwher

he re-entered the Us. Apparently

they are "prepared to throw the book at

Fiorini! Fonini in real danger of losing.

---

## Page 24

his citizenship

Coses Ins also taly action af. Masterens)

Indicates ODCHAR has ideas of lus on,

and ABBAS does at try to stand in

7 Ful 60

to Dir fri MissH- Cable

PDL about to initiate fund-raising

campaign for group.

Suggests tense a/ XDI GORAS

PDL Speeifically

WH Comment. Ref in dirates Diaz latre

preparing launch offensive afainst Castro

from Guatemala

3 May 60 table to Dir from: 111st flavana

Kepts- PDL plans to land wel prepared

fore 10-150 Cusans. ASAP- poss- end of May

13 May 60 cable.

to bir: pr Havana

Rept MAL soke contact W MAR

que disconey it heavily penetrated

Note: ref: cade stated br. santago Rey:

Rerna rept bray group of Cubano

---

## Page 25

under gory grena waare trainiy

Miami arca under command Diaz La

- Cable May R 60 to Dir pri Miami

Action: W4S CMr. Phillips, WH DiV

notified 2035, " Man, 60)

Thummarg activites PDL indicating action

imminent.

Roptreeting discustion betu. Aliepro,

Piedro, Raget re: support for tal-

US 50, 000 mentined as goal. Not

Kwown whether funds handed over to

PDLtO: Repti funds obtainer.

Rept- force-perhaps 100 men, forpned s

PDL

Under superisio Pisrini- PD- 11 pose

essir considere indo-

Es0 grandi since

much equipment issued to men ber

finen field training outskins tin o

Morinis ren raceinated. Have 2

boats, 2 aircrats at their diposal

Believad DL. contemplating more

directe, from FLA to Cuber Gaet

mentined - stagens base for expeditio

contacta FBI, Border Patro re: developman,

They will contact Foni PDL Uudel

---

## Page 26

-

circumatanice do not intende to contact Di

myserf

suggests close astention soth psycho. $

polit: hoplications of such expedit. mover

by PDL. Question railed whether some

action should be taken to "sasmarne"

D. Ls plans. - i premise "Wellest De

Thoroughly discredited both in Cuba $

1/ more resp. exile elements i has consiste

provided "effectire peg from Castro font

propaganda" " effect move baDL at

This time might have on THARC

plannin§ timinion. Ass, Imperatin

of pors.

accomodatin w/ ouat. Govt

an PDL need caretul consideratio

"In light of poss. harmitue results of

PDR Venture, may with consider proposing.

coordinated action by US. fort to

frustrate this before it gets off he

fround."

Neus article Miami Herald 10A pril 1160

"Is castroi Time Pea OuTs

Menis for DC/ na DOP 30 had 60

Re: CIA involvement in case of cares

Diaz Lant, tormer Depty fireeto of

---

## Page 27

Cuban Reuse. Air Force and Applicant for O.S.

permanent resident na.

June Di resignces. no Chief of Cub. Pen. AF, Red to

Us Marcat went into hiding atked for help.

to 0S. Exhiltrated him ma/ shippine line

•m lampa, Fla 27 Jul 59: Depriefed

in Tampa $ Miami Presented himseef ar

INS ofe., rani, reguoing asylum which

was granted

WCASSIET.

Urf & chilhen left Cuba hug st for

rexico then joined MOL on 248007

059:

MDL Left Is via New Orleans for RexCity

to obtain or resident nisa to

permit him to go into business in

order to earn living. iNS wouldnt

allow him to return.

Kept Shchcars rebuttae Fu

Get Commen

from ben swit

That ClA said MDI Intendsto

untinue warlike Tactis ithe Is abloo

retum to the US:

- Cable le tarch 60 to: Die framriami-

Re: HAVA 3140

See PDL as forlory bewildered, outcast,

Excommunicated by ODCOVE tor involing

self W/ Batistiano Hital sign Cajisas

Pedrara...

"unity"' pledges but was clearly

---

## Page 28

3/4/785

in middle that cireus, finally kissed off

by Pedraza as little boy playing mans

fame. OsCONE pelin son tor old friend

Has don ol he could stilt se of lise to

Them it willi tale andes, avid publicity

Believe PDL constitutionally incapable of

la ter

Believe inclusion of DDL, UnId

be somewhat menace

Meno for the record 21 FCb60

Re: telephone report from Miami on Activities of

Franestco Caji gao

Indicates PDL conferring i Caiias, who is planning

meeting in Manana w/ Toropito Somora

Dispatch to chiepWH Div fr: Miami WHD Rep

17 Fes 60.

Re: Summar of current

QDBlAS activities..

writew by Patrick

Karnley:

Meeting 18Jan 60 - 9DBIAZ Visited Nicaraguan

Emb w ranguer-sterling in wash re:

assistance of Nicaragua for military

expedition against Castro

Having difficult wINS re passport Distressed

by atrinde of oDENvy who peminded

wim they could arrest him at any time

---

## Page 29

Awthor salked to ODENy re: This matte!

ADBIAs andrang rejecting scheme to meet

Somoza as arranged by Lais Atenas

DoCussiOn N/ ODBIAS re: Cuzada Constitucional

Cubana ((CC), ODBiAS one-man crusaden

Not intended to be organization

(Karnley charactizing PD as very naive, a

Dabe un the woods

" in thee matte a Publiesh

husting him , but "by no means a

total loss". ]

-- Dispatch

2 PS 60

To WHD Nep trian, Havana, Caracas

ter: enief WHD signed - Oliver G. Galband

Re: Meeting of F. Castro N/ Gustavo Machado

in caracas as reptd by PDK.

Requests inteniew of PDL by karna

"in most minute detail"

ho knowledge of contacts rachade

and castro....

as reptd in Parade,

Lach Post 3 Fan 60

---

## Page 30

Dispatch 18 Faw lo

48): Chief WH Div

FROM : Miami WHD Rep.

Re: rept of contact w/ 9DB/AS 185an60

Author. Patrich Karnley

Into re meltings beta Nunez Portuando

and PDL. r: Whether or not Porthondo

willing to lend suppos to military operatin

led by 9DBIAs W/out politizal commitine

to Nunez Portiondo for future

DOL discussions re: est. nor-profit 8g

to raise funds for actinities

vote: celorio, who who would be involued,

told AMBOAR about scheme, but used.

name Kleburg, suggesting comsine it

KLEBURG - LYKES - STANDARD OIL WaS

some how gettry read it thit foop?

Dispatch 12 van 60

To Chiet WH DiV

Er Miami WH Rep - signed Kannle

Re: contact w/ QDBIAS 10 Jan 60

Amory item:

- PDL consideing forming military unit to

infiltrate cusa for action ay Gort

- Dispute betN PDL, QD COVE, 9)CHAR griE

---

## Page 31

Poi had protected ID CHAND releat trip to

buatemala i/ Segio Bruce and

Borini: Forini-question whether he will

be admitted back to U.S. ODENVY

ready to "throw the book" at his

---

## Page 32

"Political Action File

(Jan 1961-

- Memo for Ofe Legis. Counsel: 11 NOV 77

Fr: Raymond t. Warren, Chief LA. Dir

Re: Allegation by Senior Cuban diplomat

concerning role of cusan exiles in the

assass. of Pres. kennedy:

- no further info to supplement the ipo.

May have been refening to either

Pedoo or Maros -

Noses assoc / sturgis, article of

20 Sept. 77 re horenz allegarions.

- Remo for 8fe LC 3 NOVT

From Chiet LADi

Re: same as asore.

Rapss - fairly reliable soure said senior

---

## Page 33

Cuban ciplomat statoned abroad, made

charges in Late Sgo77 t0 his colleagues.

that Casan exiles such at former Gus. Air

Force officer Diaz Lan (tras) → Othes

had bees involved in assass.

Divition belieres basis for statement presumal,

article a 20 sep 77 in NY. -horenz

allegations

DO Document extract - 63 8 NOrT

Fine 63 Mareos DL invited Frank Forini

to join raid against cuba 15 Jun using.

moppy ouned ay him a susie othes on

raid caros o

Garcia, salvador Garcia

0/en o7 UR

190 form Dept ot Justice - 9/8/11

DOB 1/8/26 Alien Peg # A 10176-250

SS# 261-542581, Havana Cuba

sPOUSE: carnet Izaguirre, Tania.

DOM 1-22-59.

- Doc. transtes -x ref =

17 TAN 69

Former head Cuban reool. At intrested

making trie cuba to sine Russian stip

- Doc: Xfer - x ret

26 Jan 64.

Reptly working w/Felipe Hda Santiago.

---

## Page 34

on projeered raid on luse which was to

onginate tron Miami area

Memo 10 Dir. FBI ATTN S.T. Papich MJAN64

FR: DD P:

Re: Acusationo mady by PDL.

- Rep from this afency reud info ll NOV 63

from untested source concerning meeting

D+ FORDC in NYC on 3 Nor. 63 turing

which DDs made folowing improppin

remarks:

- claimed state Dept asked him to

wook w/ them one condition he male

no pub. statements accusing

Castro of beiry communist.

offered.post07.thiet.of Af inGuat

Frank Benda,

but reprad

toyonets

Bendes Now offered mayorship.

-01 Marianno

- sccused Kerredy of being Gonent

srime op bed

Communist.

-Vaid lubans had fight alone -JFK

admis would not help. faid

If the US gos were to fire one the

to the exiles, the exiles would be

Wise to make sure it did not fire

back thre the stock instead of thr

the

barree.

---

## Page 35

orginal disparew of above-

With cryps.

to chief-spee, Affairs Staff

fri Cos IMWAVE

has handwritten mote - For The record

Bender never neet anz, who was

handled by the PH. section of the

project at That time -

10/1/64

signed

Droller? WHDIV

Same mark

- DOC XHI* X-Ref - 31 Ful 63

POL involved in abortive attemph in air

strike $ baflet raid on Hasana, Cusa

squelched by ODEN

Doc XPer # X Met 12 June 68

6 Fune: 9,63 Maroos DL. invited Riorinito

join raid af. Cuba to take place weekend 18

Tune, ving hoppy owned on Pedro t

Maros: Others goin: Carlos Garcia $

salvador Garcia Oler=, a ER official.

- Trace Regres 18Apr. 63 freDe

-A "Subject o dropped w lon prejudice.

---

## Page 36

-

DOC X fer $ X ReR 25 her 63

Draz owns 2 P.T. brats in diami area -

Re: retta by suby. of 35 tt speed

boat to anti- castro gop.

Do XJi 8 X Fef - 23 Tes 62

Subjeet: Movimento Recuperacion Revolicionaro

de Cusa. MRRC.

Diaz kanz Came to diami oftire w/2

companions, Reinaldo Cruz y Blano -

Recently acquired 4 boats tern Hampton

Roads Salvage co of Tallahassee.

Other companion not id'.

- Cable " Feb 61

to : BEu

note

-NOTESeNT

EPom: WAVE

Re: into that Lt Col "Oscar Diaz.

Chief

Pers of MILCOM. Conspired to slow up

recruiting - discredit recruiting team

round Diaz manipulating records $

was sabotaging behind MILcoM and

PBPRIMES back.

WAVE Comment:

Evidence turned up entirmed intrigue 9:

braz

---

## Page 37

- 05 OrT 62

Re: Anti- Castro Activities..

Info:

PiL spoke at meeting held at Baytont Park

9/29/62 - tok Cubans idea of recruiting

eusans "creamed up" by v.s. to keeptroline

the Cusans. Claimed lisans had sen

tricked secause they did not understand

what was foing on.

Trace request

30 Apr. 62.

After discussion betar a rep. of this Agency €

The Dept 0f tormy on 28 May 62, 1

Dept of Army has agreed, in new of

into contained i our Agene, files, to drap.

interest in Sabi:

- Biography PDL

Revol. activities begun in 52 whew he started

running rifles into Cuba for Prio.. 53 exiled in

Miami until 55, and Started fenyin amos.

Castro.

58 appta chief of 26 Frily AFI.

held until defection Je 59. Leaflet drop

Oct 59.

Not kuon to beloy inany polit pars.

Formed on morement -Cec but was unsucces

ful in obtaining support; considered by FRi

---

## Page 38

§ other moderately liberal groups as including

some ex- Batista army oftices.

Repta in April

1960 Diaz had committed cc i self to frou

headed by Marquer Sterling: However,

subseguently CCC merged w/ Ariazza de.

Liberacion - amalgamation of several goringe

frompo as libas epiles...

Although contidered

somewhat of as "hothead".

does have considerable

stature as former Chief of AF and recently

he & some of his followers accepted into FRD.

Currently - tember FRO:

Endorsed by - Mr Braden, Mr Colligan of Freepot

Salphur.

- Memo for: wH/4/Finance.

5 Fan: 62

Re: overdue Aects.

Pedro Diaz Lanz - 8400 passed on 19 JaN 6100

ex pense money for a prop tour taken of

heis CoNtE Agnero $ Others.: Plan Called for

use of Diaz Lanz's plane piloted by him flan

chanyed found too difficult to set necessary

permits to plane.

Finall, conte vent.

alone when IDL, balked at being contes

shadow.

reantime, Diaz Lanz dabbli in

polities, appeared sefore senate committe

and succeeded in making himself useless do a

---

## Page 39

con

call,

49633

Blopm

Alders

697

8980

ofe

532

propaganda asset.

siped-Stannard: Short

Cable to JMWAVE from Dir

6 July 61.

request IMwAVE renew reguirements for use

Pedro Diaz Lanz in boat ops, Feeling here

he indiscrede and would compromise

missin

DoA not initrated.

Aldo

vera note - iden w/Mir Ado seralin vera

former undeground leader against Batista-

Held following positions w/ casto gort

- Head of Dept 01 Invest: 0f Cuban Rer. Police

- Cusan Army G-3 seetion

- Chiet at GS of Cubaw Army

- 29 Apr 60 repto as one of ofticers it

charge of caching arms in variou

intervened houses in Havana

- 2 Fun 60 repto replaced ao Shop.

General of cuban Terren. Army,

not named to another pott

- 21 sep 60 reptely trying to est: contact

W/ oppos.grps...

but

in realitya

govi agent

- Dispatch - To Chief: WHD IR. Chief of Bad,

IMWAVE

Re: "IN of April " Movement

Organization to be presided over by

---

## Page 40

"military junta" - not. one leader on ay

both members of Rebel army and Batista

Army

Diaz haur does not hold a steady posina

because he consides hiniself a "leader"

rather than a soldier"

Believe info on secret meeting of gronp

leared to cuban gor Sm Aldo vera.

- Intu. Rept 14 Ful 61 Re: Cuben counter.

revols. Base

Rept - 250 free Cuban troops « 7 aireratt..

based on ssla de Mujeres Off shore of

Quitana Roo Province, Mexico. Plan

militan expedit. - included:

PDL

Feupe vidal

Tentente ENU) Chinea

- Dispatch 31 May61 TO Chief WHiD Aroma

chiet of Base UMNAVE.

re: Freuzas. Aereas de Liberacion (FAD)

All pilots i members of Ai Force Who were in

camps had a meeting during which AMClAtte

5 spoke i said they

had to hold an

election to appoint chief of AF I latecto

present it to AMBUD-I.

Arguments enshed. Capt Perer did

---

## Page 41

Нетёти, ато

келен, Aber

not agree w/ Thotype election Lett

meeting a gop of ma.

Huafana, tener aloo spoke Tere than

half persons lest.

AMCLATTER-S elected as Chief.

/ Fist election had siven votes to Diaz

lanz, AnciATTERS and otes. PDL

reptaly tried to take over, Caused

fenstance.

Spelt they shouldn't have

allowed Pt palsts to Lote in 18t

percy i Called for te election Held

FAL menses loyal to AMBODI

- Cable 23 May 61 to BRU from: IMTIDE

Info- author met numerous cubans in

Miami-apparently pilot. Expressed

interest in peturning wauthor to sha TIDE

to "stay proficient in flying PDL

apparently...

creating disturbane.

take over."

Good stable group of men.

"The hard core mill remain tojether as the

same unit and wil beand are ready f

needed."

---

## Page 42

Dispares 18 May 61 to Chief WHD from dierst

Base IMWAVE

Meeting of labans in Bey front Park, Liani

Anthor-Stanky R. Zamka

-B May 61- Meeting in Baytont Park

PDL ed al

athen in messed Man

involva is/"Cisen affaire

Artime

-

Cable

I May 61

TO BeLl from IMWAVE -

7 indinduals 4 Diaz Lanz gre berg said

total of 51500 mo. by

AMIRON

Gip not active $ some have not picked.

up April paychicks:

Request authonty drop group fros

AMIRON Pollo effectre 1 May 61

at discretin WAVE

- Memo for AMDIP/A

28 April 61.

Re

conversation w/MrFosedu

Newman, Ny Herald Tripune

Repfd 27 April 61

Author: Howard Heat

DisCussed THATE Mates -

---

## Page 43

"I separate fact from freton on an of the reced

Discussed several areas:

Ricardo borie- PDL-

Fuse, men alleged UA had fiver

moufficient.

honico boat

demandedde tutor op

ops, but each time GA cross

course was followed This boat

was interfered with by Castro

gunboats-

Hunt explained reasons for cA

procedures - diminate duplicata

7 compromise of effort; avoid

hostile monitoring of communication

Coast buard interference, provide

resoue en emergencies.

Artime.

horie & Draz denounced Artime as

Cadro penetratin ajent. - Bolstered

by newmans recollections that

LueN ORTA was believed to have

said castro once claimed an

afent high in conner-reudl.

Oireles

Hunt.explained. lorie.lostont.in

MeR power strygle:; PDL

felt personal resentment, politial

indictiveness. Artimes futher was.

a communist 88e1026

names more

---

## Page 44

formative years spent w/ Lesnits.

Aurelian@ Sancher Avanjo-

re: attacks of UnC by Sancher and

Atino Diaz.

re story that CIA had not kept its

agreements N/ Diaz, making it

imposs. for Diaz to land lus

force in Cuta

Hunt. "S explained what really

happened..

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo-

Gutierter

re: allegatino that Menojo a gip were

detainedat Methen, Tx to appease

Bartota 4 Trevillo pantisan.

Hunt explaised move to 7x decided

On by iNs be insure satety

of Outerner; assess grps conflicting

tallo: Gre arrived too late for

inclusion in militan propan.

Revol. Council complaints

re: gen. theme that US had wot

lived up to its commitments to

provide air cover for landings

despite pre- invasion promise by Pres.

Kennedy to provide this umbrella

Hunt ex plained IC Looking Tor

scapegoat. Said Pres. had

made

---

## Page 45

no such positive commitment to Re before the

invasion... Pres. dispatehed MSSTS Bere,

schlesinger to HMO in NY prior to invasin

to say Pres. lad said quite the contrany.

Said. pesonal interneue betw. Poes $ RC had.

taken place on 19$20 April, in fact.i

As to lack lack of protective air cores, HH

cited failure of RCS B-26s to eliminate

Castro air forces dung 15 Apr. Strike. HH

"mure" as to fault for lack of second

mop-up strike.

Said Sads in Guate

mala becoming untenable - open to

oppos- congress. inspection by 18 Apr. -

Newman - declared - realization Rat it

wasnt sabotage by Communist afents-

"'e sabotaged curselves!"-

newmar expressed interest in tH

identity. Conceded hes had hever

heard: "Edwardo:

---

## Page 46

marcos

Dispatch 25 March 61 - 18 Chief WH Div from

Chief of base- Havana

re: Anti-FRD activibes of Carlos PRIO

socarras-

Brio held meeting ? May 61 at Everglades.

Hotel, liami, Ma.

Made anti-PRD

statements to press.

Men who had been planning action a/

PDL, Jett him, joined Prio, since PDL

lacked resources.

Dispatch 3 Mar 61 to Chief of Base, THWAVE,

fr. Chief, WHD

Mancos DL: anticipating anest for anti-com

actintlo, made advance preparatino to

have one of his upason contact ODIBEX

ofe It. Douglas Ate Leth bridge Aguilera,

FAR ofer, of one of These reps.

Marcos stated that Lethbridge trying to

get names of Russian NKVD ayouts in Cusa

i when he has penetrated com. ogs. in Cuba

he will disclose Their plans to serine."

- Doe X fer $ Cross-ref- 29 Fue. 63

inoord in poss. aireraft bomb and

kaflet raia on Habana Cuba to talie

place on 28 ful 63.

---

## Page 47

Memo of meeting held at home of

Juan Carlos/Nemerto Rodrigner,

2-26-61

PDL, Juan Caros, Com. Gonzales met,

decided Diaz Lanz Start out for

Cuba Believe PDL good name uTt

help get Amer. assisfance

PiL expressed bittres toward

ERD and Antine.

Cable - 17 Tes 61

tO BEL fr. WAVE

Neither PDL nor AMNORM -1 recollect

kuoning Enrigue Molina Rivera AKA

Arturo Morales Y Rodriguez

Cable 10 Feb 61

TO IMWAVE fO BEEL

PDL passed 5460 advance by Has durig

trip ARMETAL. WAVE stoned obtain

accounting.

cable.

3 FeD 61

TO : JMWAVE.

FR: BELL

AMCORE 2 $ ADBlAs Metunity Miami.

4 Tes. As result inability obtain nisas.

---

## Page 48

w/ permission for plane, tour to be made wore

Or both via commerciae Hights. Fion plans

cringent alleged AMDIP- I offer to QDBL

make him replacement for LITAINT-/ in

AMIRON OPG.

AMCORE 2 reports

Sy Andip i, but would

make tour regardless

Subis will call choaden fo contaet

instrictims WAVE Co When assistance

needed

Routing i Record Sheet - i Reb 61

NOto: Re : PDL

"Diaz Lans would cause increased

morale problems at MADD

Possibly could use uni catall

"No interest to PMODS"..

- Memo I Feb 61 for WH/4./PH./AM

Re: PDL:

Met w/ Midael M. Maney (Wt/4/Prop)

to ask it he could be pilot in FRD Air

Force -

Author recommends PDL would aid

greatly in creatiy esprit de corpo

and circipline

---

## Page 49

Dispatch 20 son 61

To Chief WHD from Chief of Base TWE

Re: Frank Forini- comments se: alleged

plans of KUBARt..

On 4 Jan 61 her. Joseph A, Forties,

Superiting Customs Agent in Miami, sent

attachinent A to local chief of KUrUM

who in turn sent it to IMWAVE

Inasmuch as the content of Affach

A appears to implicate PDL in an

infavorable mama, CRABANAC

investijated the case f susmitted a

memo dated Itar 61, Attadli B

Chief of Base apress w/ conclusin

in Para 7 of

Attach B

-'Altachment A.

briter and

and tie; cut note sinas

interriewed Sturgis On Dec 20, 1960 at

his residence

2080 SW 60T Court.

Miami, Fla

Alan McDonald

close assoc of

Strugs, also present Ziorini said B.2S

seized by Customs, used for baflet trop

on travana, petuned to him after

payment of charges - 82,800.00. rose,

was furnished by KußARk?

---

## Page 50

he had turned over the airplane for use by

PDL. Dot was at air cratt almost every day-

preparing plan for good will tour" of

central Ames. countries, to se sanctioned

By KUBARK

writer told Fionini he was prob. being

duped- trang open talk that US supporting

group-always wout foundation.

orquestion tonini said he spoke to KUBARk afnt

bugt The name of "Barker" of 4420 NN.

Office contacted PD for cooperatio

PDL was adised Forini was internered

earlier That day-

PDL expressed

concern that Fionini might get involved

in way that would impair plans of

anti-Castro promp

fice maning report secause Icose ta/k"

by Fiorini might have adverse effect.

FbI had earlier interciewed Fiorin,

presumably re: Similar a/008e talk"

- Attachment B-9 fan 61.

- Alleged 42,800 payment i presumed to be

part of money firen to PDL

by saralegui.

• personal loan

---

## Page 51

2. PDL, preparing hir aireratt for the heielo de

verdad:

and instructions givers by him to

aineratt techniciano induding poss. use of

natt flago an hore of aircrats would

contirm Diaz intendes to visit # of

countries.

3. Barter says he met Fiorini on ali ne

oceation is a froup of people & has

even seis him seme on since

Alejed address of Burke Provided

by From not correct

Fiorini has lost confidence of PDL $

has been treating w/ such people as

Rasco in an attempt to involve

himselt in anti castro activity.

NaH. PDL expressed Concer

Finini

"night get involved

5 Di alleges he s his people hounded

by federal ayents whote interest in

peans has been piqued by plane

overhauling activities f that these

federal officials asked leading?

provocative guestions.

6...

entire Exec. comte of ERD as well as

---

## Page 52

propaganda commission, hilly acquainted

/ prepatory plane for flight and it it, tha

for, not sharage plans have become two

outside

That immed. jap

2. However, a review of Customs rept, together

w above, would indicate that the

essential element of plausible denial

still remains!:

Cable 10 Fan 61

To Bell from WAVE

Follong Chron: applices to prepatory actions

for PDL trip -

select flight tip party; obtain unsait.

landing permits;

establish flight muting-

Lift gon afency restrictimo a PDL and

aircraft. FRD send Wher of

instruction to FRD delegations in host

countries outlining adiana prepara-

tons necessar - i special eguipnt

for plane -

PDL suggest tape

recordings be made at local stops for

mailing back and use on swan

Expect conciete han dunzy wk of

9 Jan...

piL will handcary...

passports and fliglito documentio

washington, obtain vas $ landizy

- permits & sumit results to

---

## Page 53

Choaden Who to finalize flight rube

Have toed QDBIAs aim a I5 faN Fakegg

tho realize That prob. optimistic

---

