# 180-10070-10476

## Page 1

(180-10070-10476)

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

9/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10070-10476

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

006982

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

CARPENTIER, PATRICK

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/05/1978

3

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY; BACKGROUND

CIA; FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

LETTER

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/16/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Bo 133.

V9.1

HH 50955

DooId: 32244418

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JFK Routing SliP

006982

NO.

DATE

7-7-28

Jocument I.D. OUIGOING CORRESPONDENCE

INDEX

CiA-Dockeg

COPY TO

Robert Blakey

Gary Cornwell

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews

Jini Wolf

Tuy Hutton

Jackie Hess

cliff Fentor

Tike Evring

Team 11

Team

42

Team #3

speciat Instructions:

Team

$4

ream#

Prorm #2

IFK

TO :

OUTGOING CORRESPONDENCE

Patrick Carpentien

Approved .

Date

45

Fenton

Hess

Gay

Klein

Wolf

CornwelD CC.

Blakey

X 50955 Doctd:322441783AFI B3Y: Betsy Wol

4-6=8

---

## Page 3

LOUIS STOKES, OrIO. CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSÓN PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTEN E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART D. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEDR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER. MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 5. 1978

006982

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select

Committee on Assassinations requests access to all files and

file references pertaining to the following individuals:

1) Edward Jay Epstein

2) Marvin Kantor

3) Charlotte Bustos

4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Committee with access to

the following information:

5) Any and all investigative reports prepared by E.

Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. Kennedy assas-

sination.

(These reports were not necessarily pre-

pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment

with the CIA) .

6)

The file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to

E. Howard

Hunt's alleged Watergate-related activities.

The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files

pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

1978.

However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested

that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

The Committee would also appreciate a response from the

CIA regarding the following matters:

HH 50955 DocId: 32241418 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Mr.

Patrick Carpentier

April 5, 1978

Page

7)

8)

9)

The CIA's written statement replying to the Committee's

request of February 21, 1978 for an explanation of the

criteria that governed

the opening of a 201 file dur-

ing the years 1958-64 was not responsive to our inquiry

because

the CIA's written statement did not focus on the

relevant time period.

Accordingly, I am renewing our

request of February 21, 1978. In the event that there

were no criteria governing the opening of such files

during that period, the Committee would appreciate a

written statement

indicating that this was the case.

CIA document #563-810 indicates that there are 37 docu-

ments that should be in Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file

but which are missing from the file.

Furthermore, this

document also indicates that there should be a machine

listing of these documents attached as part of document

#563-810, but no such listing appears in the file.

The

Select Committee on Assassinations requests that the

CIA provide a listing of such documents as well as a

written explanation of where those documents are 10-

cated and

why they do not appear in Oswald's 201 file.

Pursuant to my letter of December 27, 1977, I would like

to note that the document referred to in this paragraph

is a classified document.

After having reviewed both the documents contained in

the CIA's files on Priscilla Johnson McMillan and the

materials that were independently made available to her

under the Privacy Act, it is apparent that the files

which were made available to the Committee did not in-

clude HTLINGUAL materials. As the Committee has

already requested all information contained in your

files on the individuals who are the subjects of our

requests, please

review the files that you have pre-

viously made available to us for the purpose of ensur-

ing that all of the information pertaining to the

individuals involved has,

in fact, been provided.

Finally, the Committee would like to interview all persons

who served as case officers in the Soviet Russian Division of

the CIA's Tokyo Station for the period 1963 through February

1964, as well as the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief (s) of

Station for that period.

The Committee requests that the CIA

HH 50955 Do0Id:32244418 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

April 5, 1978

Page 3

either make these persons available for our staff to interview

or provide their last known

address

so that we can

contact them

directly.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

1. Nobut Blabe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: bwd

1N 30955 D0010:32244416

Page 5

---

