# 180-10143-10153

## Page 1

180-10143-10153

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box 28

Falaler 13

#4

p.1

questions for Thomas B. casacin

I. Employment

A. Pleseat prection-setied a still W/CIA?

B oution at time of assassination (in Peris

Mature of prution, ses possibilities

nature of. cover

sandusiation hewer dinelf and Paris Slation I

- shutter commusications

- Use of cut-outs

C. Pretion prin to aregnment in Paris (SRL) DATES

- Rescuption of composesents within 5R Bunch

Nature of his raptralites as tief of 5R6

D. Pretion pur to 5R 6 lasagnment (Japan) DATES

There was the stateried?

That was neture of work at this particular station?]

What was Is praction tele?

That were his keptabilite in that prestion?

Did Statton lave aay ulvement w/U-2 pogram?

That was the relationship batures the EVAl station Pend the

U-2

Here ay specations Men i conjunction With the military?

Hae ill aware of these pestes who were multany ntelgeace

personnel?

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

180-10143-10153

---

## Page 2

0. 2

II. 435-173-4

A. Explain encumstances surinding the wreting of this memo

wretts in response to some kind of tastieteors yor.

All DIA persanel to report any salate information regarding

WHo i was it spontamous on is part?

B. love sheet

Whe wad Ratut b. Kanpell? J

Explain

C. 11/25/63 Carasia) memo

edentify Nate P. Hattiger; vy was meas witter to lik?

sentify/REDWOOD. J

What is the distraction beterer th Blanch" i the "c lessard

I Section'? I'

Who were the Chief s sepety Cheep of the I6 Ritaid Section??

When Ald Is Malison take place? washias a summer of 1960"

o when hHo was in route to 1.5.? Loes this mush wol when

*(auni sayi ile left IS 6 for Paris assignment? I

Ideatify [ ХИЛИП. 7

That wee "the suitable charkets"?

He returning defectors outtally defed ty LIA?

If 50, ily whick comptrents

Kev suck persons ever debrifed Is toute from USSR

resolved?

---

## Page 3

p. 3

Paragraph. 2.

STATE AfT.

edentify OBACID. I

SWIFE

What kind of finatin lad lain preced Ink hiD?

What did he mere by aswald, "unusual selevi

Is regard to tilling his sandu sted not to plect too dack, What

did he mean? Who were the subordinetes to Whom de was repurlag.

Why was touck of pretecula interest?

и Meast?

[Paragraph. ] 3.

When was the prakas

I bato it?

Identify KUDOVE. J

Why does mens state he was phasing out of KUDOVE".

Ws лри to plasing out of HAS a but of DDP altogetle?)

Addendum

Explain Legal Travellers/program.

The ran it?

That end of frimation were they seking?

How did this defer fiom cases is which tick would cstact sel

travelles puss to their departure I the dif them upon thei returk?

What ded he mean by the Havry story"? I it's untikely that its

a typo. in light of the fact that the name Oswalk already appeare

turee before in that same siterce.]

---

## Page 4

p. 4

his upsold puer untiest in hid as expressed in thes mere

his he ever contacted ty anye firk the MiC. M al

otte uvestigatove tody incising the ip. entered in the mers?

II. Subequent to this our declass as referenced 12435-173-A,

did lease here tea that Oswald lad wer dees contatted dy

нуже w/m the Agery?

would te, in any of his potions, have Inous if tHe was or

lad wer been as ageat of the CIA a axy oke intellegence organgation?

Xho, in what dursess, would have had Mere to the type of

ufs.?

How would Asph

адену association the idueated, if at all, In a pelons

file?

would a dol file idente speronel use? How?

I. 201 opering sheet.

Has de awe, is is prution as Will of SR 6, at a 201 file on

sued anted? If so, did de leve a lapy?

sisfy At under "The Mertiation

What type. of lafo. la geneally put in the entegory?

dentify runners a Section III If opering form.

Has " 74"S outrely weed to denote the ISSR?

Has does the nui ! 131" pent?

thy would " /SI6" and "In" is voiced hit?

Why would DISIt have spened the file on Oswald?

Kly wouldat the se durcion have opened a fill on LAD upon

baking of his plesee it the USSR?

WhAT DOES

RESTRICTED FILE REFERTI

IF NOT PERMANENT CHARGE, TO WHOL

-KiY

---

