'480-10147-10185)
: N.

Nee

|
i
}
?

Le
[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
a iassiicaligiy

(This foMBNURE BAYcBTNERRoteria! extracted

from ClA—controlled-documents.)

When he first came into prominence as a Cuban exile
leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was described as “softspoken and

unassuming", a person of "highest intellect, sincerity and

conviction" -- in other words, a natural leadex.* In 1947, : &
the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the Cuban v
Ministry of Public Works to study civil engineering at the (
University of utah.” Ray was in the United States for two ?

years before returning to his native Cuba in 1949 and

obtaining various positions in the engineering field, one of

which was project manager for the construction of the

’

Havana Hilton Hotel.

wr

Reacting. to the excesses of the military~ruie of

Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement

Spoons

in 1957 and began supervising sabotage and acts of terrorism

4 a
against the government. His political posture and éctive

resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who, 7a

upon assuming control of the government of Cuba, appsinted
©

By
Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959. Within a

few months of his appointment, Ray confided to i-Castro

Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of ‘Communism. in
the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire azainst

"Bl Lider Maximo."

temire in Castro's government was od. He
: 4 : a
was relieved of his officiel position in Novenbeor No

Central Intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release

Dates as saa rized

2) eerie ee mene
bead JO14I -10135

tet


+ DRAPT - 11/3/7 Chass:

B. Palmer - Rage

(this' form is to be used for moterial extracted \
definite reasofrofcuAthsatrsbdeiemmntijas been documented but,

according to one source, Ray did not leave Castro because of
ideological or policy discrepancies but rather betause “of a
personality clash with Castro's Minister of Labor who almost

shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting. ® Another theory

about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare
Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary
hero with.whom Ray had been associated.”
i For whatever reason, Ray did continue to permit his name
to be associated with the Castro regime”? until May 1960
when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People cure}?
The MRP wasqanti-Castro organization which believed that

the ideas and aims of the democratic left best suited the
12

needs and aspirations of the Cuban people. -It did not wish
to reinstate the 1940 Cuban Constitution, rather it favored

continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginning of &
his xegime?? and advocated the regulation of private investment v

and nationalization of all utilities.24 Associated with Ray

in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon

Barquin, Rogelio Cisneros,1° Ruf£o Lopez Fresquet and Felipe
Pazos.1®

! Organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was
considered the most important underground group - a Working a

in tightly organized cells, the leadership. in..one er ouinee

was unaware of the identities of their counterparts in other

Classification:

4



I. ee cekedl Classification:

J | in other prévifitiesfont is Toebainedengagedridineaated Of sabotage

_from C|A—controlled documents.)
and was supplied with explosives sent by launches from the

Florida Keys.>?

Nee

Having waited until May, 1960 to -organize his resistance
group, Ray was criticized as being. suspiciously tardy to the
anti-Castro movmement. 2° Chargés of "Fidelism without Fidel"

were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist

vasisatay Nae

ideolagies. 2+ Perhaps for these reasons, Ray's background
was questioned by some in the State Department?* and the Miami

Ry

CIA station’? when, t the summer of 1960, he was {being re-
ye MR NO ¢ st Cam %

ls cruited by the CIA in Cuba to beconef a member of the Frente

Révolucionario ed feRD aat ona anti-Castro
Oey, Cove inne F

dso organization, sponsored by oe wo (ezal® dhe -agenays considered him

ree an important political asset and facilitated his etandestime’
“26

ca!

nig entrance into the United States on — 10, 1960.27

: rary

the, Nevertheless, there was &
ur. Gains, V yan

/ ~ Gi about Ray's political compatibility FA oe States

within the

Nemeneetn Nenana

\ t government policy. In afer remo for: Record, dated November 21,

SA: 1960, one |Agency Jofficer declared, "-.. Ray did not politically
28

Ne

—
D represent anything to cheer_about." A CIA officer who met

privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political

Neen

posture was "doubtful" as far as U- S- government acceptance
was eonee raed ce and a further assessment portrayed Ray as So
far “left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

U..S. interests as castro?”

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

|



a eabiseanats

Nek Nu

No

es

}

investigators that he was aware of the

DRAFT - MANUEILCRAY PAPE on: E17 3/78

Page 4
(This form is to be used for material extracted
Some prontiaresth-CurbstrDlleshiigarasnia So expressed negative

opinions about Ray, among them Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, president
of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his
program too Marxist? and declared that Ray was bitterly
anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his think-
ing.32 Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to
banning the Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing

everythiiig."33 Although aware of his controversial political

philosophy, thre -CEA-eontinued-te-egtively recruit Ray to join

the pre 4-—yerausethe White House and State Department pushed
for his inclusion.35

Ray received full operational approval as a "political
asset" on February 7, 196136 but resisted joining the newly
formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had
resisted inclusion into the .FRD. He said he felt the members

of the CRC were too restrained’ and he did not want to become

a part of a situation in which. someone else was running the

show for the exites.37 oveves) Bh fhree weeks before the Bay of

Va
Pigs invasion, Ray was persua'

dea to join the CRC as a show of
unity.38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA
fact that certain in-
fluential and wealthy Americans, among then formes Ambassador
william Pawley, were opposed to him and that ‘a lot of heavy
propaganda was Cha38) ifiew INWa bea-acevsing him of being a

39 wif + Classified by de

Communist.

f
é

oT,

Sco



{od .- : Ciassiicanion:

1
Ai
J _ DRAFT ~ MANUELTRAYoMEVERD be bd 3647 Snaterial extracted

: Page 5 from ClA—controlled documents.)
| -
J Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs

invasion. In a Miami news conference on May 28, 1961, he said
the major reason for’ the MRP break with the CRC was that the
Council had failed to live up to the written promises given

jt in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before
joining the organization. 4° The first condition had been that
the Council was to give first priority to the underground .
ighters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly,
Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the

Batista regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he

said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-_

| ment of invasion military leaders. 41 Ray told the assembled iz
? newsmen that his program to overthrow Castro was pasea on 5
a; maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,

3 and that he thought the leadership of this underground should
; come from Cubans who could prove they had access to such a 2
j potential force. 42 i i | ig

Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the p
| council, 43 claiming that the group had an effective underground :
a organization but needed material and financial support. 44 Ray ;

\° £€e1t the MRP had to be allowed to plan its own operations and

_broaden its base of financial support to include sympathetic
Latin American soverfments. He-was totally opposed to another

large invasion. pttengt-"
lassification:



|
3

Nee

Nate

DRAFT - MANUEL GPassi Wan oni 2/3/76
Page’ 6

: (this. form is to be used for material extracted

The Miami fremCldeavendsal ed nasunenided Ray be given an
initial $50,000 for operational expenses.47 Reaction at
CIA headquarters was immediate: jyithin 24 hours a Memo iow
the Record was circulated, objecting to the Miami Stators
recommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any
substantial military actions against castro.48 Ray was told
to submit a "prospectus" of his plans for the MRP and advised
that no.financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan
was reviewed.49

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he

received sympathetic ‘support for the MRP from the Governor.

of that island, Luis’ Munoz Marin, who personally ikea Ray.20

While Ray was in Puerto Rico, a member of the MRP underground

in Cuba reported to the MRP Executive Council that he had been
in-eontact-with-the-Cif-and_uas told by-the-Ageney that no

material resources would be‘available for the group until

f
b

rem

Manuel. Ray was dismissed as general codrainator 5+ Charging

USS

the GEA with repeated interference in the affairs of the MRP,

Ray resigned so that there wouldn't be any obstacle to the

group's cohesion. 52

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning. Board an-
nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a-year position as
consultant to that Board.53 Although. there was no evidence

that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray

: oe 4
was looked upon with great favor by puerto Rican officials 54
Classification:

ana he endeavored mony ication: ene RP Wwitir-cuban exiles residing

ieee ‘Classified by derivation: _______—



DRAFT — Manuel Ray Rivero,
Page: 9 Classification:

Ray's prafltagerads docbr pester aol ut time he quit

from ClA—controlled documents.) 7
his job in Puerto Rico and’ dropped out of sight. His in-

filtration plans were known throughout the Miami Cuban exile

: 8 :
community.’ Soon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered
a full-scale military alert and xounded up scores of suspected

Ray supporters. a2

After several days of bad weather and doaging Cuban patrol €
Hl i boats, Ray and his crew of seven? including a reporter— p
| : photographer team from LIFE mageeine, - landed at the =
J Anguilla Cays, 40 miles .off the Cuban eoaseeen where ‘Ray '
{ intended to make a final ‘equipment check and a final radio
3 transmission.
Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla Cays y
| + were heavily ‘patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who £
owned them. °4 The British discovered Ray and his group and '

their cache of weapons and explosives, arrested them for illegal

5 pac
entry into the Bahamas and took them to Nassau.® The minimal

fine of $14 was levied on each member of the group and each

ners

was admonished to never tresspass again.

£
|

Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as

ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, “and he

\ » 87
knows I'm coming? iy i



|
1
3

betcedieeibal Pee eer reer rte ees

Page 10 ; 7

(This form is . be used for material extracted f

Compound ingm Raw-LoPraRS SwaiNEAB.) ENE reyelation by the, FBI v

and U.S, Treasury that Rogeli Cisneros, had illegally purchased y

$50,000 worth of arms for JURE from a California arms manu> B
facturex, “ It also caused the-Ct considerable ee

The Agency: denied knowleage-of-thepurchtse to Revert™ le
offictals and, Decense of ; autonomous nature of #ts-xelation—
\ al mitt ke syop Yu
skhép-with. ae Ai
was told
investigation. °* ee Ray thatthe
sal’

See

wquld—have. to move. all his operations outside U. Sy territory. é
In order tq shore up his waning credibility within the E

Cuban exile conmunity, Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in ;
July, 1964 but, again, hits boat developed motor trouble and g
the plan was aborted. ‘ea The failure this time led three if
exile. groups to withdraw- from JURE. Me f
¥

All these eyents, from May through July, resulted ina

_CEA, decision to stop financing Ray until he ceased all
: at TH Be .
activities from the U.S. mainland. —fhe-Agency_antharized A
CAs wa ke) BEd
final payment ef -$75;¢¢@"to the group to facilitate the move,

é . "SO~95
thereby: “closing. the. Books" on JURE. :

- 997
Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968

although. it was: relatively. ineffective. He personally main- H

In 1969, he

tained an interest in anti-Castro activities.



es MANUEL Gls ssitigatio 5 737 Sree eee

Page th\\

XA

(This form is to be’ used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) é
called together a congress. of Cuban exiles to create a new

organization. °* As late as 1972, he was actively engaged in

Wer

}

the formulation of the People's Revolutionary Party. hoping
a

to reinvigorate the anti-Castro movement, 7 put it, too, failed

100

Ne

WEE,

to make an impact.

Ray still resides in Puerto Rico and heads his own

Of
engineering consulting firm in San guan.2?

Nena

NUT

Neel

Ne

Ne

Classification:

Clossified by derivation:



1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

: Classifiea#aryes lee ae
assifiesBain oe |
(this RANUBLLORAY \RIVEROnateriol extracted With ef

from ClA—controlled documents.) canta

: Ons tBPE fanuet-Ray~-Rivero (Ray)

CIA/Depusy—Di2

Veleme-Tr, Cable to Director from NASH) 11/17/60

BSC Ens, G9, Teen 8,) FBI Manolo Ray References, y
i (sex Ddotumem 0OGH 3)

Section 2, ¢

Ibid

HSEA-$009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, as
Interview of Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales
CSFK Be ment CSFOOS)

Ibid.

6g Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

7.

10.

ll.

12.

13.
14.
15.

16.

19.
20.

eee

Fuego

Edition, p. 91 ¢

Hsca-£005990,. p<-2; FBI Correlation Study, Manolo Ray,
File #97-4546, Section 1.) 2,2 (or DOCuHe 005490)

CcIa/bD Memo from Sy) former

CIA/BBS.,..Ray..Volume..IV.,-Infexmation Report, 3/16/61,
Subjeet+ d,—Character—ami-Economie ~Goncepts—of

_Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 92

‘ 4

HSCA-#909005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, a
of: Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales , FeO gy

earl re Vv
ey ar ee 6/9/62 scudy of program—for
Liheration-of -Cuba_submitted_by-Ray- a
CIA/DROy—Ray-Volume-It, Cabie to Director from MASH, 11/17/60 y
eed ¢
CIA/DBO;-Ray-Volume..IL, erganization—of NRP— 7
Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 92
New York Times, April 10, 1961, Castro Foes Map Multiple 7
Forays, by Tad Szulc
apa
2 Fas st: at
Ibie Classificati

Give Us This Day by E. Howard liunt, Pop Jax Library Editi
CIA/BRBOyp ~Ray-Volane- I ty) Repor
10/17/60, Snbject>Meath



Foctnotes ~ Meflabsytedysrke

Page

(This form is to be used for material extracted

22. CIA/BBOy-fRag-OipLumetrailed Memmets.)4 i.efLxom Aeting

Chief, 9/27/60,. Subject: _-§tete -Approval--to- Include
Manuel_Ray. Rivexo..into--the FRD- Complex.
23. CIA/BDO,-Ray-Molume~iy Cable from MASH to WH/9, 9/29/60
Va Leann Rand wae
24. CIA/BbOpRey—~Wolume-2;—Meeting with RaulChibas, 9/7/60
25. Ibia-
cee
26. CIA/DDO,Bay-Volume-IL,
pare CIA/BDO, Ray-Volume—Pi-y Cable to Director from JMASH,

28. CIA/DDO, Bay.VolumeIL, Memo for Record, 11/21/60
~ Subject:Meeting.witheKing- ‘and..Esterline.on..Subject-of
Handling..MRP
29. CIA/DDO,.Ray.Volume, IL, Cable.to Director from MASH,
11/17/60 : 7
30. CIA/DDO,-Ray-Votuite’V, Memo for Record, 6/2/61, Sr biects
Relabions-with-Manoio..Ray..and .the..MRP- fro

Sune CIA/DDO,—Ray-Yolume.ILL,-Information Report fromU+S.
Citizen,-FPree—lance: writer and_part-time -sugar -broker,

12/22/60

132. CIA/DPO>~-Ray-~Volume..LL, Memo to. Soe-besBerbke-ivem
RRA_=—=Phi-bhp-He=Bensat

“¥" 3/16/61, Subject: Recent —Cuban—
DevetOpmenss : :
33. CIA/pNO,-RayVolume-IU, Cable $o..Bell from JMWAVE, 3/1/61

34. CIA/DDO,.Ray.Volume-i TL,
35. Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, pp- 172-73 - be

36. CIA/DDO,Ray~MoLlume-T¥, administrative form share
AEF
37 HSER OS80S, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,“ Interview
with Manolo Ray Rivero, feon-Ponzt/sensales TTrik
COICO S

38. CIA/BB—Rey-YobLune-£Y, Memo for Record, 27 March 1961

byGeraldDre Mery subject: Ray-~Aecepts ~Appointmene-to
Counesl] 5

39. HSCA~$O89605, Memo to G. Robert Blake; 6/28/78, p- 4,

i » Interview ws thi ROS. Ray Rivero, = a-Bonzi/Gconzeates
fms DD

forets

Cable to Director from MASH, 11/5/60 -
L1/11/6¢

Lr,

won,

ee,

Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/6¢


No

News

Ne

NED

Let

ne le ay oe a a Se a a Bacn
pootnates ~ HaeysboliiedHBRE
Page 3
(This form is to be used for material extracted “ws
40. New York frim&s4: —5 saehligd doOsrenGaban Group Quits Exile Body
by Sam Pope Brewer ..?*
41. Ibid .
42. Ibid,
43.
44. CIA/DDO,Ray—Vetume-¥*,
4/29/61, #0983 (cs. |
45... Ibid .
46. Ibid,
47. CIA/DDO,.Ray..Volume-Wy, Cable te<Beri from JMWAVE
5/4/61, #kFE2 (Seo : a)
48. CIA/DDO, Ray.Votaume=¥, Memo fox cheesrd , 5/5/61 from
Gabvin—Hicks;—WH/~A4/bM operations
49. 7 pa/opa., Ray) ‘olume..M@, Memo fopmbecerd, 6/2/61, from

sincera etaet Memo -for_Recort- SBERED, 12/19/61
Subject:—MiscelLlaneous: ‘Items ~Diseussed-with “Dr: -Mixo-on
18 _Recember L961 (86 Low's we neti: )

New York Times, July 17, i961,)\ ‘cuba Exile Group Criticizes
7 by Petér Kihss

Ibid,
—_—

CIA/DDO,—Ray-Valume VI Memo i (WH..Division ,
10/10/61 £. 3! od eral..--Cuban

CIA/DDG,,RayeVolume-Vil, Cable, 7/2/62 to pirector Geom
San—dear)

CIA/DDOy—RayValumeWL, Memo soE=Record -SEERES,-
19 Dece mbex 1961, Subject ntiiscellaneous—ttems. discussed

Vee
CIA/DDO, RayVolune-VE,; Rorotet onary horement os tne
Yona e zp, 4/20/62 - : stadt
CIiaA/ x ne Memo for-€trteé ,

drigire



at eee _

Footnotes 7 Manvel Ray Rivera

‘page. 4 - Cla assinication: — — — —$—__
i
58. cso ena perysedicitd ragisrinhioxtgciedele-Forc]e
i dave Op6.2 , Subject+-Manoke-Ray 7

59.

60.

64.

65.

66.

67-

68.

69.

70.

71.

piano

CIA/DDOy-sURE-Votume-L, Cable to Director Gron-san
seer) 7/25/62 (WE. LEE 472)

CIA/DDO7—Ray-Volume-VEE , Memo for Sbief,—-TAsk~ Force-W
Exom.Ad£onso.Rodrigue pod {12/624 Subjeots-Manole-Ray “Rivero

CIA/DDOymRayaolume-Vidy Cable 7/25/62
Ibid:
Cras DDO»-~Ray~Volume~ViE , Memo $o-Ghief£,.Task-Foerce” wW

from. Neat nedrosuanyAedeazeenh Subsonbe-OpemettoneS

bee-of-Ray.Expenditureof Fun NRA Cea

CIA/BDOy—Ray_Vorame ix Cable soe neem Gener
6/19/63, peas

grass ty: oaenimpsuneligr ii a Dispatch

EK 7/2/63, Reoealet Meeting: wit! LO is:
pridgeO- Servant. 7

CIA/DBOy-Ray ays VoLume-: XVL, Memo aerereaaniere
pivisiom 7/9/64, Gabject+.Chronology~0f-GonceP E- of
ce lt

to. Manuel~Artéme~

CIA/DBO7—RayWoLume Ks Memo. fox-Ressed ; 8/23/63 feom
Alfonso.Radrigu 3 erRay..contact »Report

HSCA-HOO90CS 7 PTT. Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78 STAR
Interview, with Manolo Ra Rivero , e?, 5
Ce BOC! 0O%008 7 :

in /ppo-Raytaluneee Cable to Director from JMWAVE,
9/11/63

CIA/DROm Rayo Lume.¥L, praft, 10/4/63 by.Radriguez,
Subject -Manueb-Ray-Bivexo

CIA/DBOyp~Ray Volume-Ae , Cable to-Chiek,.Special-Asiiars
Staff from JMWAVEAeS, 10/22/63

HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,2° © cae

Intervies ith Manolo Ray Rivero, by— Ponzt/Goreekes < ite
Trott *

cia spe -Ray-Volune xXIT,

1/14/64

a

Cable to pirector from JMUAVE

recs
era/p00 Ree wa:
2/4/64

Sli rxtedtigencesEaformacion cable,



t - Met my Biv
Footnotes manhess); HAHOALS

ee

Page 5
(This form is to be used for material extracted é

75. CIA/ 7 SEIT p to Director from JMWAVE
3/28/64 et

76. CIA/DDQ,-Ray -Volume-XiIL- Memo fon.Chie£,..WH Divis ior
4/14/64 From AlLfonsa.Rodriguess subjects My Meeting
with-Ray.-on-L3 xAprideubobA :

77. ‘Time, The Hemisphere — Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

78. Ibid:
ine

79. Ibid.

—_—

80. bia’

S81. CIA/pDAuRay—Wolume-XIV, Cable to Director from JMWAVE,
SEN are Cable to Director from
JMWAVE ai 5/64

i :

82. Time, The Hemispheré — Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

83. Ibid.

84. bids
—

85. Ibid,

———

86. Thid ,

87. Ibid:

88. CIA/DBOp=Ray-VolumesKbiby Memo foraaBsora, 5/20/64 from
Sanne Halpern, Subjects .AURE.Purchese- of Axrms-

89. Ibidt

90. Ibid,
ass :

91. cIA/DO,~.Ray, Value —Xihy Memo fowRceerd, 6/29/64 &uom
Al£on $0--ROALIGUETameS BAEC Esvableshment-of- Base
aproad;—Manuel~Ray_Bivero*

92. CIA/DDO,—RayetoLune..XVbr Cable to Director [romnsnany),
7/15/64 rman

93. CIA/BBO»RayVoLume—s wire service printout, Miami,
Florida, July 24, 1964

94 CIA/DBOp—Ray-VoLlune ey Nemo fouaimesad 6/29/64 From

DLEans0x, pore, ee ee
ManselRe AdRGLA Rs



4
H
}

neue ‘

Nee

: Classification:
Footnotes —- Manuel Ray Rivero

Page 6
(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
95. CIA/DDO, Ray WVolume-WEE, Autonomous Operations —
Operating Plan :

96. CIA/DDO,-Ray-Volume~XVit , Memo fox—Rewend, draft,
9/22/64 from-ALfonso-Redwbguez

97. CIA/DDO,..Ray.Volume,XVILT, Cable, Gite, WH/Miami, $2233

6/4/69
“98. bia. TRE
99. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78," Intex i
oe with Manolo Ray Rivero, by.Fonzi/cenzates GFK DOOM
~ 00482.

100. Ibid.
101. Ibid,

—_——

cation:

ssified by derivetion:

