# 180-10142-10307

## Page 1

180-10142-10307

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ox 24

Polder 3

L. Wizelman -

DDO

8/1/78

manuel Artime

Vol 1-. NuDate to Dec 1959

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

201 File request 18/11/59

Artime-Buesa, Manuel Francis

POB -

moron -Camequey Prounce, cuba

opened by martha. Thorpe

DUB -

1/29/32

preciati

@: PRQ-Part. a-

Cryptonym-AmBIDDY- I

contact -development- In November 1959, Artime wa hiding in

Hauana after duaffection with Castro gout and desiredto

defect. Subj. brought into contact with Co.D. Morales (true)

in Havana disguised as Cuban prest. Subsequently ex faltrated to

mexi and later to WAuE. Initial interest was for

KUCAGE EXPLOITATION.

Subject's loyalty, toward cIA has, over a periodat

years, become institutionalized and he easily adapts to new

case officers.

CASEOFFICERS:

Dr. David Morales as. "'Dr. Gunzalez"

Howard Hunt. "Eduardo"

Gerald Droller

"Frank Bender''

"and numerous other CIA representatues inuulued in.

ImATE uno used assumed names, but sume of whom are knaus

to him by their true dontity."

ad "Subject views his association with CIA as indispensable in

180-10142-103o terms of enablina him to brina about rectiue cheries in

---

## Page 2

- 2-

the cuban situation. He there fure considers his mission

indissolubly. ted.up with CIA, which in turn affords

us

a strong element of control ouer. his actruities.

Suby. has no cover.

In context.of. AmwORlD project.only pecole who kno of

Artime's assoc, is

la mr. Ratael-Quintero and Dr.

Cesar Baro.

"under auspices of AMocRuD, subi. wa. trained inthe

use of the one-time. pad. He underwent extensive paramilitary

and intelligence training duririg IMATE!!

Previous activity @CIA:

ImATE- this responsibilitigs lay in the actren, not

the collection feld. He has purveyed on occasion pulitical

intelligence, but strictly as a by-produet."

"He has been permited to infer that, tis passed to

the.policy-making components of the ur cout."

"He will be wed as a the principal. in AmworD,

a paramilitary program, vesting.him. with impurtant

anclindependent responsibilities.

Artime knows Desmond Fitzgerald, James smith (Chief Oc/AO

Richard Beal (SA), Raul Hernandez (SAS), Henry Hechsher (SAS)

"Subsect's termination would inuole a masor policy

decision on a high leuel of the us. Gwvernment.".

CABLE HAUA 3042 DeCIS, 1959.

Artime a varuna left Hava, on sis. Veramar

on Dec14, 1959, eta Tampa

16 Dee. Extiltrated by

Amraa

---

## Page 3

-3-

volume a Jan- Apr 1960

memo to D.of Sec. From JiC. King 1-19-60.

Artime & varona exfiltrated from. Cuba...on 14-Dec1959

Arrivea Tampa 16 Dec 1959.

@ memo for Chiefof WH/4. from Clark simmons. I Feb 1961

Because of comments made by Pedro Diaz Lanz on

li3 Jan 1961 to effect that A. may be comm. agent,

Artime' fle was reviewed. Concluded no suppurt fur

Lanz's allegations.

(3 Cable Feb 20, 1960 mexisia

Artime-leader.uf Cuban Catholic University group.

@ Cable 2-d7-60

mexi 5199

Artime left Mexi Feb ay → Guat. I hour → San Jose.

3651

San Jose Cable 3648-3-4-60

Artime leaving Sanjose march. & 3

6 Cable - 314-60

Cite Dor. 19418

To Havana

Originating officos B. Edmuras..

"Following info in ref

given general dissem by tas

stall Embary

FBI

andstation asted pass same to oDAcID

, ODENUY er Castro

extremely worried over effectiveness Artime efforts to ducredit

his gout abroad and nas given orders eliminate him."

---

## Page 4

-4-

¡Request for approval 18 mar 1900 From Juserns Piccolo.

"Sub, ect will be walto... In PP. operations and to

supply information on counter-reuchutener y

@ Cable HAVA 3868

3-24-60

TO DIr.

Pass Artime message:

"Fidel castro has issued orders eliminzte. you.

Do not reveal names. of any meR persunalities now

located in Cuba to anyone. watch your personal. security.

Will see you NiVC 31. march."

Provisional operational Approval

Granted.

3-77 29-60

Cable Dir dai36-

24 march 1960

crypt assigneu-AmBIDDN-I

00I3

may-Aug 1960

Request for operational approval From I MARC

Is may60.

request. change of OA to reflect we in pm Cadre

---

## Page 5

q14-l-v0s

volume y- Sept-Dec 1960

volumes-

Jan-Feb 1961

Artime DOß 29 Jan 1932

recerued B.S. from Havana Unruers ty 1949.

better in file mentions as FRD General File, 19-9-11.

volume 6 March - Dec 1961

---

## Page 6

-5-

Artine

L.w,zelman

DDO

8/2/78

volume VI- January '62- Apr '63

O. memo-la/march/ 1962 Fur Chief, WH/4/pm.

Subject: Artime

advances in the amount of 14, rua.7a. by P. J. Maggi

Advances for travel expenses to Artime. by mexico

Cory during 1960.

1-27 April 1960 - 53,602.72

a- 18 may 1960.

500.00

@ menutor chief, uM/4/Finence, la march 1962

by

Charles w.mart. States that A, took part in

April, 1961. inuasian and was captured & now in forson

in cuba. Trauel aduances should be written off to

expense.

@. Cable WAVE a935- TO Dir From IMWAVE

1-1-63

"Subi appeared

on sec a7, 196a zamka met @Artime.

extremely willing continue cooperate with CIA. Subrect more

maturad, still energetic and appears have same drive

¡and political ambitions as befure."

8. Cable WAUE 30581-6-63

repurrs

re contact of Artime by Hunt. DAUd only wants 1

CIA contaet with A. "This causing wave sume embarassment

thw while understand. Hunts. interest Artimes well

fare den their past. relatunship wish pant..out contimed

cuntact can only have detrimental eflect un wAve

relatunsh po with Artime.

---

## Page 7

Wizelna n

Page 6; Artime file, Volume ? (continued from handwritten notes)

# 5: Cable, Wave, 3128- Jan 9, 2963

CRC received request from Artime's prospective mother-in-law for back salary

due Artime for period of imprésonment.

CRC records show that although Artime MRR

delegate to FRD at approx $400/month untill few months before invasion during

which he in direct contact with CIA. Evidently Artime only member brigade for

whom no prior finan arrangements made. CRC proposes settle matter with payment

$3500 which equivalent basic brigade salary of $175 (martially illegéble)

for 20 months without allowance since Artime's parents not dependent. Artime

accepted $250 bonus frum CRC with considerable reluctance and told WAVE he prefers

decline back salary for political reasons.... To aboid criticism Artime not treated

fairly WAVE autbortizing CRC offer check for back salary

but also instructing

ARTIME decline on basis his acceptanca would create misunderstnadings. As equity

WAVE covert payments to Artime will be generous.

6. Document Cross kReference. 18 Jan 63- Artime released from Jail in Cuba and

arrived US on 12/39/$ 62. Artime on speakers' platform with JFK at Orgnge bowl.

1

7. Memo for record byRobert Moroney, 23 Jan #963

On Jan 22, writer met with Artime and Roberto Perez San Roman in Washington, D.C.

They were in D.C. to see the Attorney General and hopefully, Mr. Cottrell of

Both Artime and Preez stated that they regarded Robert Kennedy's

recent interviews with the press concenring the Bay of Pigs to be prompted by

internal U.S. political considerati ons. Both men, without solicitation, volunteered

the opinion that the Agency had suffered gravely for the Bay of Pigs, and they

stated that the Agency, in the persons of the Agency personnel whom they knew, was

not responsible for the failure. Artime stressed respect with which he viewed

majority of Agency personnel with whom he had dealt.

...."From a long-range Agency viewpoint, it would appear that our interests no$w

are parallel, and he may be expected to wokr with us as long as they remain parallel."

8. Memo for Chief, CI/OA from William K. Harvey, Chief, jIask Force W, Dated

Jan 23, 2953. Requests Artime's provisional operational approval be reinstated for

period of 6 months.

"It is planned to use Artime in the WAVE area and throughtout

Latin America as

a PA-PROP asset."

9. Operational Approval granted Jan 31, 1963'

710. Memorandum for Chief, SAS Frovisional, Attn. Seymour Bolton, From Crabanac (Hunt)'

Jan 31, 1963 Hunt relates his contact with Artime after the invasion.

Hunt states that on 6 Jan 1963 he left Washington for TDY in India, returning on 20

January 1963. On Jan 21, Artime called and that evening visited Hunt. Artime

toid Hunt "that he was, in effect, under the wing of Mr. Robert Kennedy, the Attorney

General, who had counseled him not to accept money from the CRC, saying that money

and travel expenses would reach him by another channel. I asked if Artime had a Miami

contact and he said that he now had one and was receiveing funds as the Attorney

General had indicated."

11. Memo by Hunt to C/SAS/ PROV/PAP, Attn. Seymour Bolten. On 3 February 1963

Hunt had lunch with Artime. (memo dated 4 Feb 1963.) Artime told Hunt that he

and others, presumably San Roman and Oliva, ad been guests at a luncheon tendered them

the day before by the Robert Kennedys at Hickory Hill... Artime mentioned meeting Jaun

Bosch in NYC and said that they had gotten along well.

---

## Page 8

Page 7- Artime File

12- To: Choef, Special Affairs Staff, from Chief of Station, JWAVE, Subject: Engagement

of Manual Artime.

Memorandum of Oral Committmentl. Artime has been engaged under oral

contract for use under TYPIC and is tob e charged against station overhead. Effective

date of oral contract is 1 Feb 1963, and it shall continue for an indefinite period

unless terminated by either party at an earlier date. Artime to receive $400/ month.

Also subject will be reimbursed for operational travel and expenses. And will be given

$100 monthly for an operation expense account to cover cost of car rental, typewriter,

stationary, etc. "This account will be non-accountable in order to raise his prestige."

13- Dispatch to Chief of SAS from Chief of Station, JMWAVE, Dated March 13, 1963

Subject: Typic/KUWOLF/ Operational, Artime Progress report, Feb 1963.

Artime assures that he is a loyal CIA agent with a relationship of service going back

to before the Bay of Pigs. "He is presently being used for propaganda and information

purposes, and a product is received at littel cost." In addition to $400/ month

plus $100/ month expences, Artime is authorized to rent a safe house, presently $150

monthly plus utilities, where he meets the case officer and does his writing." "The

only two imnediate plans. for Artime are to exploit the book he is writing, and, secondly,

to continue to use him as a source of information."

14- Memo for Record by Hunt dated 2 April 1963, re Convesaton with Artime and

Manolin Hernandez- 1 Paril 1963. Artime visited Hunt on April 1, 1963. Artime stated

he had just returned from a long trip through the countries of Central America, that

bringing a message from Luis Somoza for Attorney General Robert Kennedy,

and had an appointment to see the latter on 2 April. Artime is scheduled to appear on

Today show on 4 April. Then Artime is considering going to Spain to talk with Franco. His

apparent contact with the Spanish Govt is via the one-time Spanish Charge' in Havana

(whose name escaped me) but who, Artime said, was at one time of great

assistance to Jack Stewart in Havana.... Artime said he had heard that Jim Noel was now

in Madrid and I said that if Artime wanted to check, all he had to do was to call the

Embassy in Madrid upon arrival. Hunt asked about Jose Perez San Roman and learned from

Artime that Pepe had suffered a mental breakdown, that the Robert Kennedys had rented

a home for Pepe, his wife and two children in the Mclean area and that Artime had been

with them during the day when Mrs. Kennedy had come to the San Roman home and seen

Artime.

15- Memo for Record, 5 April 1963, by Alfonso Rodriguez. re Meeting with Artime

on 3 april. Upon request of REK, met with Artime. Artime stated that in a previous

meeting with the Attorney General in Washington, he advised Artime to come and see him

whenever he had a specific plan of action. Artime stated he now had a plan and that it

is essentially one of clandestine opertions against the south coast of Cuba.

' Dispatch, Dispatch, Chief, Special Affairs Saff, from Chief of Station, JMWAVE,

Progress report on Artime, dated March 1963, dated April 9, 1963.. Evaluation

of subject has not changed substantially.

---

## Page 9

Wizelman

Page 8- Artime (Continued)

Volume 8- May- July 1963

1. Memo for Record dated 3 May 1963,

Subject- meeting with Artime, By Altrea

Rodemeyer.

Meeting of Artime and Chief of SAS. Chief came forward with a proposal

of cooperation based on the following understanding:

1. That we would furnish advice.

3. That Artime's activities must be based outside the. USA

Artime asked if we would furnish arms. He was told that arms would be

made available; that is, they would be close enough for him to "reach

for them."

...: In general, Artime was made to understand that the hand of the U.S. Government

cannot and will not be revealed, but at the same time we would be willing to unofficially

and informally assist, however possible.... MRR was to continue to receive $4000/month

SAS Chief met with Artime as Don Archer.

2. Cable WAVE 8132 Artime returned to Maimi on May 4, 1963 Stated HOS

officials authorized monthly payment of following to MRR- Clandestine Fund $4000,

Salaries, $1650; Office Expenses $600; MRR Newspaper $400.

3. Progress Report Dispatech on Arthime, Dated 9 May 1963.

Artime as obtianed a secretary to keep track of everything he's doing. On 21 April

a meeting was held between Andrew K. Reuteman, Stanley R. Zamka, Nelson L. Raynock

and Artime. The role and oblicagions of Artime and his organization were spelled out.

4. Operational Meeting with Artime. Dated 15 May 1963. Re meeting meeting

referred to above.

5. Artime's Progress Report for May 1963. Dated 12 June 1963.

WAVER 0246

During May, Artime went to HDQ re Haitian matters, and after reutrning to the WAVE

TREE

area, left for Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and points outh.

UFG 278

6. Controlled Dissem. Report No. IDCS DB- 3/655, 239, Precedence: Routine

Date of info 23 June 1963; Subject: Current Activities of Frank Fiorini

Source: An American Observer (c) from Frank Fiorini.

"On 23 June 1963 Frank Fiorini said that he had met with Manuel Artime Buesa

on 27 June and that, as a result, Fiorini would be leaving for Dallas, Texas, to

inspect airplanes and other equipment available there which might be purchased for

Artime."

"Fiorini also said that within the next two weeks he wouldbe involved in

an airstrike agianst cuba. He said that the strike would originate outside the United

States and that it was not connected with his proposed activities in Dallas for Artime.

"Field Conment: the same source reported on 3 May that Fiorini had agreed

to assist the Diaz Lanz brothers in planning and executing an air strike which was to

take place on an unspecified date. Fiorini advised that he would rent a plane through

indirect channels.

Source was Am/Clatter-1- Barker.

---

## Page 10

Page 9

(Artime, Vol 8, continued)

7. Cable, 27 June 1963, DIR 50360 Artime expected in D.C. on July 1, 1963. Will be

contacted at baggage pickup by Mr. Raul Hernandez, CIA staffer, who will use

alias Mr. Martin Ferrer.

8. Memor for Chief of SAS dated28 June 1963, from Henry D. Hecksher, Notes

for meeting with Artime during week from 1 July 1963.

Guidelines for AMWORLD project-

All contacts beteen Artime and WAVE personnel will have to be terminated.

Payments of MRR set-up in Miami should be effected through AMIVORLD

facilities i.e. via a Sviss bank account to an occuount in the lst National

Bank of Miami with which HQS Monetary Branch maintains special relations.

I, representing you, are Artime's sole contact.

9. Memo for Record, 9, July 1963, Meeting between Chief, SAS and Artime on July 1,

Present: Henry D. Hecksher and Raul Hernandez.

Re establishment of a base in Nicaragua.

Chief, SAS gave Artime a tailed

briefing on our sabotage planning and listed the following categories in order of

priority: electricity, patroleum, transportation, general industry.

9. Memo for Record Dated 15 July 1963, Re Telephone conversation with AMEMBER-1

Ember called to tell about lunch

with Domosa. and said they discussed certain Cuban refugees who seemed to be gearing

up for action in regard to Cuba. Names cited were Veciana, Batista Falla, and Artime.

10. Memo for record, dated 25 July 1963, Conversation between Artime and

Raul Hernandez on 18 July. Artime told that he should anticipate when large sums

of money would be needed in order to allow time to process the request. A balance of

$25,000 each would always remain in the accounts of "El Protorrigueno" (Sixto Mesa)

and Artime.

a...

---

## Page 11

1, 2, 3, 2, 8,9,10.

volume 10- August 1963- Artime File.

1- Progress Repurt fer July 1963 on Artime, Dated 5 Aug 63.

on 14. July 1963 WAVE station afficers met @ Artme for the

last time. On July 19 he left the area, "launching the

first big step of the AMWORLD concept.

volume ll Sept-Oct 1963

O. meno from Desmond Fizgerald, Chief SAS, 10 sept 1963

requesting POA for Artime be reinstated fur 60 days.

@memo -fer Chief uf TSD/CAB From Fitzgerald 9-12-63

Requested that in a safenouse in warhington area, on

25 sept 1963, ISD specialists brief Artime on sabotage

deuke and techniques, and instruct him in the use of

a make-up kit.

@ Progress Reper +- AmuLELD -

1-31 August 1963

Daled lo sept 1963.

I memo fur chief

", SAS -

Operatiunal Approval li hereby granted in case of Artime

fur purpose specified in 9-27-63 request

Enrique Garcia Chantres -Artime's bodyguara

Nilo mesa - Artime's personal secretary.

---

## Page 12

Telephone cunversation with Artime, 8 october 1963. Memofur record.

Artime said that "Navaretle in has left tor Panama."

uolume 11- November 63 to February 64.

O @@convorsation @ Artime-86 aa Nou. 1963. by Raul Hernander.

Artime called to say that he had just neard about the

assassination atempt upn ipk & inquired if we had any

additional information. Al stated that he would immediately

cable AG Rubert kennedy and the sec. of state to express hir

deep surrow concerning this gastly incident.

volume. 1a- march-June 1964

---

## Page 13

12

volume 13- July 64-Aug 1965

1- AMWORLD meeting in west Palms Beach 3 Jan 1965- memo by

Nestor D-Sanchez, Subj! Persons knowledgeable at Artime's

meeting with Cubela.

The following people know of Artime's contact with

¡Cubela: AmJAUA-Y: AMWORLD.a, miguel "Cuco" de Lean,

Nilo messer, Antonio sanz. On Cubela's side the following

men know of the meeting: @ AMLASH-3

QUSPORT-1; AMWHIP-I, a jeweler in N4,l Rume, paris ana

maard who is a confidant ut cubela and giues him money.

Quesport -l -is married to the daughter of the Englis

ambassador to japan.

2- Cable - 13 Feb 1965

WAUE 8261

Barker told on 18 red 1965 bysturgs that Artime's

house was ransacked during evening la feb. Artime told

sturgis intruders ned stolen jewelry, documents ana

telescupic lens rifle fiorini hadgruen

Artime as gift.

.. Artime did nut want matter publicited.

handwriten nute on bottem of cable:

"note: Artime confirmed this. Il Feb-Event wai

about 3 Feb. → no sensitiue documents taken."

3-Cable- IMWAUE- WAUE 8419.

the rift was a "high powerec

more re burglary.

300 magnum rifle with telescopic lens and trigger

guard inscribed

'Am BIDDy/, leader of revolution,

Frant E.a.ai"

---

## Page 14

13

4- cable WAVE 85al 20 Feb 1965

"According Fiorini Napir (miami Police captain)

instructed iden (Jose Antonio mole Rosales) que complete

details in writing on stolen rifle and mail repurt to him.

Napir wants report postmarked and allegedly would

disclose contents only to clear AmworLD any complicity

or responsibility event rifle used by unknown party

some future crime."

easier

5- Memo tur record 8 march 1965 a y carl E. Jenkins.

Subj: phase-out ot Artime Auton omous Group,

On 5 march 1955, Artime's case officer, outlined

to Artime the polly decision reached by the 303 Cummittee

on y march."

Artime was told the decision was to

terminate our operational relationship in ao Friendly

and cooperative manner as possible, but not later than

'I may 1965."

6- memo fur Chief; WH/polß 3June 1965 Background steten

of Artime.

by carl Jenkins

In mia-1963 Agency asked Artime to head an

autenomou paramilitary organization made up andtraineu

exclusiuely by cubans and funded by the Agency, Suby set

up a serres of training camps in central America, Conducted

several paramilitary operations against cub..

Paral Artine $12,000 - AuG 1965

---

## Page 15

14

..volume 14 sept 65-May 66

1-. meeting with Artime, 30 Aus 1965.

nemo dated 3 sept 1965

by carl Jenkins.

Artime's understanding is that the polly committee

in washingten had approved a prousionzi subslay payment

for 3 munths, ur until 1 oct 1965. Agency pa Artime

A 100,000 net fur two Swift buarts.

"He is not yet

willing to sign and agent contract..."

2-: CIA Intelligence Information Cable In 79569

On 3-17-66 Francisco Calzadilla Nunez Cuban

charge d'affarres in madrid, was cunsidering lodging a

protest with the spanus guernmentes as a result of

plotting in madrid by the Artime group to assassinate

Fidel castro, as disclosed by the recent trial in Havana of

comandante Rolando cubela secades and his follovers.

volumes June 66 - Dec 66

Artime recerved 115000 fur April, May, June, 1966

and $3,000 fur July 1966.

1- memo "Proposed Reactuation of support to manuel Artime"s

: Autonomous Paramilitary Group."

24 June 1965.

18 June 1964 Mr. Alexis Johnsun, then a member of 303

Committee, stated that the Artime raids could concervably

provoke castro into using

samsites

and emphasized this

In Are 1964 the 303

---

## Page 16

:commitee authorized CIA to suppurt Artime fur 60 to 90

days in order to enable him to develop his relationships with

an internal dissident group, out.

to discourage him from

continuings his raids on Cuban cast.

By I may 1965 CIA terinated support for Artimets

paramilitary actourtes by direction of 303 committee although

court relationship@homwascontinued.

Attaches paper dated Junes, 1905 proposing support

of Artime.

$15000/muntn.

@ memo- a6 Oct 1966 "termination of subslay to Artime"

Indicates 303 committee approved above request.

sept.1965-54bs1dy cut to $5000

IJune 1966- cut to $13000

: Request to terminzle as of 81 pec 1966- Approved.

1@ PRO Part 1

volume 16

O: Termination secrecy oath.

1-13-1967

@' memo to = miami from cAs, miami

subi traces an

sources of Into on Drugs 14 OCt 1972

proudes info on Bernarao de turres

on Ricardo murales Navarette - member of o- a

incuba. worked at Hutel Sevilla, m, ami

alter arrival. Aladays accompanied by manolito

Rodriäuez. Contident of Art ime.

---

## Page 17

@ memo for record as July 1973 by oruite Bathe.

june

1963-April 1965- AmworLD.

Expenses fur

project approx 7 million.

Ibarbia

Artime's deputy in meR = Raphael Aurello. Quintero

.mAR Treasurer- SixtoR. mesa-Alona..

---

## Page 18

.,Third Agency Documents -Artime File

0.U5. Aur Force, 16 Jan 1960 Subj: Letter of Resignation

from 1/47 Manuel F. Artime. Buesa USAF Reput# 1, 404,901

@@FBI / :1-27-60

confidential "Fureign Political

malters-Cuba."

@. us. Air Force 14 March 1960 Secret "Reported INRA meeting

USAF Report #: 1,404,902

(d International couperation Administration Airgram

Date 5/3/60

unsubobligated Balances

( Department of stale Document

1d April 1960 Seerer

Sub, ect: Cuba Series: Ex-Fidelists in Chile to Gain

Support For Counter-Revolution Desp. No. 740.

. FBI /

i8 Jan 1963 unclass, hed. meR

File: 1 97-4133 (Miami)

O FBI

24 Tün 1963 confidential

Anti Fidel Castro

Actuitres Is-cuba.

File #: unknown

@FES/ 9 April 1963 unclassified Anti-Fidel Castro Actures

FBI file#: unknown (savannah, Georgia).

---

## Page 19

FBI |. abJune 1963

mRR Registration Act-Cuba -

Dept. of Defense, 9. Aug 1963 conticlential. Prominent Cuban exiled

Leaders. visit Nicaragua.

WEst Documant... 14 Aug 1963. (MRR Registration. Act-Cuba

@a Dept. of state Document 29 August 1963

confidentia)

Artimo

D Deptotstare - 25 sept. 1963. secret.

statements attribured to Artime

(4) Dept. of Defense, 8 Oct 1963, Confidential, Cuban exilo

acturties.

DOD RePunt #: 2201138263

1S Dept. of state, (usambassy, santose, Costa Rica) MOCt 1963,

unclassited.

.Subj: Artime.

1DFBJ , 5 NOU 1963, mAR

O FBI, 16 December 1963

.meR, contodental.

18). FBI, 18 Dec 1963

File I (NI) 97-4133

, meR-Internal security-cuba.

09: FBI document - 25 February 1964

meR

(20

Army Document, l9 may 1964, Confidenta!

Artime

FBI Il June 1964 Confidentral Anti- Felel Castro Actutés

---

## Page 20

Third Agency Documents

Dept. ot state Document (AMIMBASSY TEGUCIGALPA)

12 Aug 1965

subj: Foreign Publication: Procurement fur

INK ICS/PP

unclassihea Nu filer Given.

@1) Dept: Delense Intelligence Report

2 Sept 1965

"Acturtes of ussouthcom interest." confidental

Rept # 2230 0878 65

.Fle# notgiuen.

29: FBI ; 31 Dec 1966 uncressified

manuel Artime.

25: FBI

31 Dec 1966

26 FBI

20 oct 1967.

secret

uncassited Tue Benito Pastora

30 Jan

1969 unclassifed

Artime

2g

30

3 /

32

33

34-

35-

36

3>=

38-

• a6 march 1969 confidental

Artime File 105-2617

(miami)

18 July 1969

unclassified Artime (säne)

17 Sept 1976

confidental Assoclation of

FBI

veterans of Bay of Pigs, Brigade 2506.

23 Nou 1960 secret

FRD Artime

FBI

22 Dec 1960 unclassited Anti-Fidel-Castro actiuntres

File: unknown. Artime.

FBI

6 Feb 1961 Secret CLIP

FBI

7 Feb 1961

11

FBI

8 march 1961 Secret CLip

FBI

16 march 1961 Confidential Cuban guut Inoxile.

FBI

21 march 1961 unclassified movimento Revotecionzio

Del Pueblo Internal Security-Cuba.

---

## Page 21

9)

39- Dept ot state Document

Cuban Exile Actruities.

as march

1961 Confidential

!

---

## Page 22

summary

Lesle Wizelman

submitted 3-7-78

11110740

Artime, Bueza Manuel

-

the file curtains

one document which is a memo

ót oral commitment to the Chief of the Special Affaris Staff

via contract approving officer from chief uf miami station.

Signed by Frederick I. Inghurst- (feld contracting officer.

Actime was tired under an oral contract tur we undee

on: "actrun indicator". Elfective date: Febl, 1963, to contenue

indefinitely #400/ munth to be charged to station aerhead.

---

