# 180-10142-10162

## Page 1

180-10142-10162

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1ax 23

Folder 17

#7

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

india

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, MEXICO CITY AND THE CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (OR: "IT'S AN UNTIDY WORLD").

I. Introduction.

A. Issues Addressed.

B. Differences Between the Warren Commission Investigation

of Lee Harvey Oswald

in Mexico City and

the House Select Committee on Asssassinations'

Investigation.

C. Conclusions.

D. Structure and Relevancy.

I1. Central Intelligence Agency Surveillance Operations in

Mexico City in September and October 1963.

A. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed at the

Cuban Diplomatic Compound.

1: General introduction.

2. Physical layout of diplomatic compound and surveil-

lance bases.

3. Scope of coverage including equipment and prece-

dures utilized.

4.

Objectives of the operation

5.

Disposition of production

from the operation.

B. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed at the

Soviet Diplomatic Compound:

1. Introduction.

?. Physical positioning of surveillance bases.

10142-10142

---

## Page 2

CH0

Sine

taperecording

3.

Objectives of operation.

4. Scope of coverage provided by the operation.

5. Procedure and timing involved in processing the

production from the operation.

6. Responsibility for operation.

7. Coordination of photographic and electronic surveil-

lance operations.

c. (Electronic surveillance of Telephones at the soviet

and cuban Diplomatic compounds.)

1. Existence.

2. Responsibility.

a. General.

b. Analysis and reporting of information obtained.

(Telephone lines)covered.

4. Production from operation.

a. Types.

b. Handling procedures.

(1) resuma

(2) Cuban tapes

(3) Soviet tapes

(a) general handling

(b) retention and re-use of tapes

(c) English language conversations

(d) handling by (Tarasöffs)

---

## Page 3

-. 3 -

(e)

expedited procedure for English lan-

guage conversations or other conversa-

tions of

special interest

(f) handling in the Station

(g) format of transcripts

c. Voice comparisons.

III. Information about Lee Harvey Oswald's Stay in Mexico

¿haters known by the CIA Mexico City Station Prior to

the Assassination and the sources of That Information.

A. Information That Was Available.

1. INFormatIon avAllable to the Mexico City Station

from electronic surveillance aimed at) the soviet

Consulate and Military Attache's office.

a. September 27, 1963.

b. September 28, 1963.

c. October 1, 1963.

d. October 3, 1963.

2. Information available to the Mexico City

station

from CIA Headquarters.

3. Information available to the Mexico City Station

From electronic surveillance aimed at the Cuban

diplomatic compound.

4.

Information available to the Mexico City Station

from photographic. surveillance of the Soviet and

Cuban diplomatic.compounds.

---

## Page 4

-

5. Possibility that additional information from

•(the electronic surveillance o)

the soviet com-

pound was available to the Mexico City Station.

6. Possibility that the CIA photo-surveillance ob-

tained a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.

a. Missing materials.

b. Liklihood that the photo-surveillance operation

would have missed Oswald.

c. Reports of existence of a photograph.

(1) Phillip Agee allegation

(2) Daniel stanley Watsonfallegation

(3) Joseph B. Smith allegation

(4) Joseph Piccolo allegation

(5) statements of Dan Niescuir)

d. HSCA investigation of the possibility that the

Mexico City photo-surveillance operation pro-

duced a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.

(1) introduction

(2) investigation of the allegations

B. Information Connected to Lee Harvey Oswald by the

Mexico City

Station Prior to the Assassination.

1. Introduction.

2. Information available from.

the soviet wiretaps)

ENTAININGT.

ING

that was comected with or involved Lee Harve

Oswald.

---

## Page 5

- 5 -

3. When were the intercepted conversations linked

to Oswald? .

4. The photograph of the Mexico Mystery Man.

ACTIONG OFTE

IV. Reconstruction of the CIA Mexico City Station

and Head-

quarters

s Actions prior to the Assassination of Presi-

dent John F. Kennedy.

A. Introduction - CIA Interest in and Liaison with FBI

Regarding American Citizens in Contact with 'soviet

Bloc Embassies in Mexico City.

B. Narative.

V. Mexico

City Station Reporting of Information Concerning

Oswald After the Assassination of President Kennedy.

A. Reporting of Information Concerning the Mexico Mystery

Man.

B.

Reporting of Information fm the Electronic Inter-

cept Operation Aimedjat the Soviet Embassy.

C. Silvia Duran.

VIA Information Cancerning Oswald's Actiyities in Mexico.

Noti

Available at the rime of the Warren Commission INvESTiCATION

Silvia

Duran.

The Cubans--Alcue and Mirabal.

C. Elena/Garro de/Paz.

D/

Oscar

contreras Lartigue.

VII

Reconstruction of Oswald's Activities

• in Mexico.

A. Introduction.

B. Narrative.

---

## Page 6

-5A-

VI. Information Not Available at the Time of the Warren

Commission Investigation.

A. Silvia Tirado (nee Duran)

1. House Select Committee on Assassinations interview

of Silvia Tirado.

2. CIA information not available at the time of the

Warren Commission investigation.

a. (LIRING/)allegation.

b. The possibility that' Silvia Duran

I was an-agent

for either American, Cuban or Mexican intelligence.

(1) was Silvia Duran an agent for American or

Mexican intelligence

(2) was Silvia Duran a Cuban intelligence agent

B. The Cubans.

1. Eusebio Azcue Lopez.

2. Alfredo Mirabal Diaz..

C. Elena Garro de Paz.

1. Elena's story as reported October 5, 1964. -

2. October 12, 1964, CIA memo for the record.

3. November 24, 1964, CIA informant report.

4. November 24, 1964

meeting between Elena and Legal

Attache officers.

5. Chales Thomas' first meeting with Elena Garro where

Lee Harvey Oswald is discussed.

6. Chales Thomas' meeting with Elena Garro on December

=

25, 1965.

---

## Page 7

- 5B-

7. December 27, 1965, Legal Attche memo to the U.s.

Ambassador re: Elena Garro.

8. CIA investigation of Elena Garro's allegation that

she created a disturbance at the Cuban Embassy on

November 23, 1963.

9. Legal Attache February 23, 1966, memo to the

U.S. Ambassador regarding Elena Garro's allegation.

10. Legal Attache memo re: Elena Garro's assertion that

she had stayed at the Hotel Vermont.

11. Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969, letter to the

State Department and the Legal Attache's response.

12. House Select Committee on Assassinations investi-

gation of Elena Garro's allegations.

Oscar Contreras Lartigue.

VII. Analysis of Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico City

A. Introduction.

B. Did Lee Harvey Oswald or an Imposter Contact the Cuban

And Soviet COnsulates in Mexico City?

C. Other Than His Visits to the Cuban and Soviet Consulates,

What were Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico City?

D: Was Lee Harvey Oswald travelling alone in Mexico?

& Conclusion

---

## Page 8

- 6 -

I.. INTRODUCTION.

A. Issues Addressed.

The House Select Committee on Assassination's inves-

tigation into Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico

City has been directed at answering the following ques-

tions:

1) Did Lee Harvey Oswald visit the Soviet and Cuban

Consulates or Embassies in Mexico City?

2) In addition to the visits which may have been made

to the Embassies what were Lee Harvey Oswald's

ac-

tivities while he was in Mexico City?

3) Was Lee Harvey Oswald alone in Mexico City? If not,

who were his associates and what were their activi-

ties?

4) Did the Central INtElligENCE Agency maintain any

surveillance operation (s) aimed at the Cuban and Sov-

iet diplomatic missions in Mexico City? If so, what

kind?

5) What information, if

any, about Oswald's stay in Mexico

was known by the CIA Mexico City Station prior to

the assassination and what was the source of that

information?

6) Was the information, if any, in the possession of the

CIA Mexico City Station reported to the CIA Head-

quarters accurately and expeditiously prior to the

assassination?

---

## Page 9

- 7

7) was the information in the possession of the

CIA Mexico City Station reported to the ClA

Headquarters accurately and expeditiously

after

the

assassination?

8) Was the information developed by the CIA in

Mexico City communicated to the Warren Commis-

sion in an accurate and expeditious manner?

9) Did the CIA photo-surveillance of the Cuban and

Soviet diplomatic compounds in Mexico City, if sucH

PhotosurvEillANe?

it existed, obtain a photograph of Lee Harvey

Oswald? If so, what became of that photograph?

B. Differences Between the Warren Commission Investi-

gation of Lee Harvey Oswald's Activities in Mexico

City and the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions Investigation.

The approach taken by this Committee's investigation

differs from that of the Warren Commission primarily in

terms of scope. The Warren Commission and the investiga-

tive agencies at its disposal went to great lengths to

establish Oswald's travel to and from Mexico, but devoted

minimal effort to evaluating Oswald's contacts with the

Cuban and Soviet Consulates.

. It is the conclusion of

COrrectly

this Committee that the Warren Commission

established

that Oswald had indeed traveled to Mexico City, Hence,

this Committee has chosen not to reinvestigate Oswald's tra-

vel to and from Mexico City. Instead, the Committee's approach

---

## Page 10

395833

-8 -

Soviet and Cuban diplomatic missions in Mexico City and

on evidence that was

not available to the Warren Commis-

sion that could possibly shed light on Oswald's activi-

ties in Mexico City outside of the Soviet and Cuban in-

stallations.

The Warren Report limited its discussion of Oswald's

contacts with the Soviet and Cuban diplomatic missions to

information obtained from Sylvia Duran and the Cuban Govern-

ment.

(See Warren Report, PP. 299-304, 733-736, In sup-

port of their account of Oswald's contacts with the So-

viet and Cuban diplomatic missions the Warren Commission

published the following as exhibits:

1) A note from the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs

to the Swiss Ambassador in Cuba. (Commission Exhibit

2445.

2) Lee Harvey Oswald's visa application and the Ministry

of Foreign Affairs of the

Public of Cuba's letter

denying the visa. (Commission Exhibit 2564)

3) Letterhead Memorandum to J. Lee Rankin from Richard

Helms re: "Technical Examination of Photgraphs of

Lee Harvey Oswald's Application for a Cuban Visa."

(Commission Exhibit 3127)

4)

The pages of Lee Harvey Oswald's notebook with the

telephone numbers of the Cuban Consulate, the Soviet

Consulate and the Soviet Military Attache's oFfice.

(Commission Exhibit 2121)

---

## Page 11

= 9 -

5) A letter dated 11/9/63 from Lee Harvey Oswald to

the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D.C. (Commission

Exhibit 15)

6) A letter from J. Edgar Hoover to the Warren Commis-

sion listing the contents of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation's file holdings on Lee Harvey Oswald

prior to the assassination. (Commission Exhibit 834.

This document listed a Central Intelligence Agency

"release" dated 10/9/63 that reported Oswald's con-

tact with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.)

7) A memorandum dated 5/14/64 to the United States Em-

bassy in Mexico City from the Ministry of Foreign

Affairs of Mexico. (Commission Exhibit 2120)

8) A memorandum dated 6/9/64 from the Ministry of Foreign

Affairs of Mexico to the United States Embassy in

3

• Mexico City. (Commission Exhibit 212Y)

9) A letterhead memorandum to J. Lee Rankin from Richard

Helms re: "Hours of Work at the Cuban and Soviet

Consulates." (Commission Exhibit 2568.) Sat one

point in the Report the Commission referred to other

information:

By far the most important confirmation

of Senora Duran's testimony, however, has been

supplied by confidential sources of extremely

high reliability available to the United

States in Mexico. The information from

these sources establishes that her testimony

---

## Page 12

- 10 -

was truthful and accurate in all material

respects. The identities of these sources

cannot be disclosed without destroying their

future usefulness to the United States.

(Warren Report, p. 305)

The Warren Commission did not print anything in the

twenty-six volumes of evidence to support its statement

that Silvia Duran's testimony was confirmed by "confiden-

tial sources of extremely high reliability."

In an attempt to answer the questions posed by Lee

Harvey Oswald's visit to Mexico City in September and

October of 1963, the House Select Committee on Assassinations

has pursued the following investigative procedure:

1) Conducted extensive interviews, depositions,

and executive session hearings involving Central

Intelligence Agency personnel;

2) Interviewed Cuban citizens who could have know-

ledge of Oswald's sojourn in Mexico;

3) Interviewed Mexican citizens who could have

knowledge of Oswald's activities and associa-

tions while he was in Mexico;

4) Conducted an extensive review of the files of

the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal

Bureau of Investigation that pertain to Oswald's

sojourn in Mexico;

5) Conducted an extensive review of the public

source documents that pertain to Oswald añd

Mexico City:

---

## Page 13

- 11 -

C. Conclusions

1) Someone who identified himself as Lee Harvey

oswald called the Soviet Consulate on 1 October

1863. This individual indicated that he had

visited the Soviet Consulate at least once.

Other evidence would indicate that the individual

visited the Soviet and Cuban Consulates on five

or six different occasions. While the majority

of the evidence tends to indicate that this

individual was indeed Lee Harvey Oswald, the

possibility that someone else used Lee Harvey Os-

wald's name during this time in contacts with

the Soviet and Cuban Consulate cannot be abso

lutely dismissed.

2) This Committee has not been able to determine

Lee Harvey Oswald's activities outside of the

Cuban and Soviet Embassies with certainty. There

is evidence, which has not been confirmed, indi-

cating that during his stay in Mexico Oswald

attended a "twist party" at the home of ruben

Duran Navarro, the brother-in-law of Silvia Duran.

There is also unconfirmed evidence which, if true,

would indicate that Oswald spent one night and

parts of two days with a group of pro-castro stu-

dents from the University of Mexico.

---

## Page 14

- 12 -

3) There is some evidence that Oswald may have

been in the company of a tall, thin, blond-

headed man while in Mexico. This evidence has

not been confirmed. If true, it is possible that

this same individual may on occasion have used

Oswald's name in dealing with the Cuban and Soviet

Consulates. The man's name, if there was such

a man, is not known.

4) On the dates

that Oswald was in Mexico, the CIA

had photographic surveillance operations which

covered

entrances to the Soviet Embassy and the

Cuban Embassy and Consulate. The CIA also had

electronic surveillance on telephones in the so-

viet Consulate and Military Attache's Office and

Cuban diplomatic compounds. The telephone at the )

Cuban Consulate was not subject to that surveil-

lance.

5) The CIA's Mexico City Station definitely knew of

Oswald's contacts with both the Soviet and Cuban

diplomatic compounds and of his desire to obtain

an intransit visa for travel to Russia via Cuba.

The source of this information was the electronic)

surveillance on the Soviet Consulate and Soviet

Military Attache's Office.

---

## Page 15

-13 -

6) The information in the possession of the CIA

Mexico City Station

was

not reported

to CIA

Headquarters in an accurate and expeditious man-

ner prior to the

assassination.

7) With the exception of a

few, possibly benign,

irregularities, and considering the possibility

that not all of the information available to the

Station has been provided to this Committee, the

information in the possession òf the CIA Mexico

Station was reported in an accurate anà expedi-

tious manner after the assassination to headquar-

ters.

8) With the exception of those areas that involved

sensitive sources and methods, such as the infor-

mation pertaining to the electronic and photogia

phic surveillance of the Soviet and Cuban diplo-

matic compounds,

information developed by the

CIA in Mexico was generally relayed to the Warren

Commission in an accurate and expeditious manner.

9) It:is the conclusion of this Committee that the

CIA's photo-surveillance operations in Mexico

City probably obtained a photograph of Lee Harvey

Oswald entering either of both the soviet and

Cuban Consulates. The CIA denies that such a

photograph exists. Hence, the disposition of the:

EXiSTEO

photograph which the Committee believes to exist

---

## Page 16

- 14

-

is unknown.

D. Note on the Structure and Relevancy of the Following.

Report iOr Apologia of the Analytic Methoa Employed).

The following report detailing the results of this

Committee's

investigative efforts regarding Mexico City

is divided

into general areas:

1) CIA surveillance operations in Mexico City during

September and October of 1963;

2) Information about Lee Harvey Oswald's stay in

Mexico City that was known prior to the assassina-

tion;

3)

Reconstruction of the CIA Mexico City Station

and Headquarter's activity regarding Oswald

prior to the assassination;

4) Mexico City reporting of information after the

assassination;

Silvia Duran;

6) Investigation of related information that was not

available to the Warren Commission; and

7)

Reconstruction of Oswald's activities in Mexico

City

The reader should be advised at the outset that the

first section following is technical in nature and may not

appear directly relavant at first blush. But the report is

---

## Page 17

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, MEXICO CITY AND THE CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (OR: "IT'S AN UNTIDY WORLD").

1. Introduction.

A. Issues Addressed.

B. Differences Between the Warren Commission Investigation

of Lee Harvey Oswald

in Mexico City and

the House Select Committee on Asssassinations'

Investigation.

C. Conclusions.

D. Structure and Relevancy.

-

-

11. Central Intelligence Agency Surveillance Operations in

Mexico City in September and October 1963.

A. Photographic Surveillance Operations Aimed at the

Cuban Diplomatic Compound.

1. General Introduction.

PosItioNINC

• Physical layout of Eptonali caround on

surveil-

lance bases No TARGETS

provided by the operation

3. Scope of coverage including equipment and prece

Sures utilizedte

4. Objectives of the operation.

5. Disposition of production

from the operation.

B. Photographic Surveillance Operations

Aimed at the

Soviet Diplomatic Compound.

.: 1. Introduction.

ANATARGLIS

2. Physical

positioning of surveillance bases!

=

---

## Page 18

- 2-

3. Objectives of operation.

4. Scope of coverage provided by the operation.

5. Procedure and timing involved in processing the

production from the operation.

6. Responsibility for operation.

7. Coordination of photographic and electronic surveil

lance operations.

c. (Electronic surveillance of Telephones at the soviet

and Cuban Diptomatic Compounds.)

1. Existence.

2. Responsibility.

a. General.

b. Analysis and reporting of information obtained.

3. (Telephone lines) covered.

4. Production from operation.

a. Types.

b. Handling procedures.

(1) resuma

(2) Cuban tapes

(3) Soviet tapes

(a) general handling

(b retention and re-use of tapes

(c) English language conversations

(d) handling by Tarasoffs)

---

## Page 19

- 3 -

(e) expedited procedure for English

lan-

guage conversations or other conversa-

tions of special interest

(f) handling in the Station

(g) format of transcripts

c. Voice comparisons.

III: Information about Lee Harvey Oswald's Stay in Mexico

JUNE BEL Known by the CIA Mexico City Station Prior to

the Assassination and the Sources of That Information.

A. Information That Was Available.

1. Information available to the Mexico City Station

from electronic surveillance aimed

the Soviet

Consulate and Military Attache's office.

a. September 27, 1963.

b. September 28, 1963.

c. October 1, 1963.

d. October 3, 1963.

2. Information available to the Mexico City Station

from CIA Headquarters.

3. Information available to the Mexico City Station

from electronic surveillance aimed at) the Cuban

diplomatic compound.

4. Information

available to the Mexico City Station

from photographic surveillance of the Soviet

and

Cuban diplomatic compounds.

---

## Page 20

^4-

5. Possibility that additional information from

(the electronic surveillance o) the soviet com-

pound was available to the Mexico City Station.

6. Possibility that the CIA photo-surveillance ob-

tained a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.

a. Missing materials.

b. Liklihood that the photo-surveillance operation

would have missed Oswald.

c. Reports of existence of a photograph. -

(1) Phillip Agee allegation

(2) Daniel Stanley Watson allegation

(3) Joseph B. Smith allegation

(4) Joseph Piccolo allegation

(5) statements of Dan Niescuir)

d. HSCA investigation of the possibility that the

Mexico City photo-surveillance operation pro-

duced a photograph of Lee Harvey Oswald.:

(1) introduction

(2) investigation of the allegations

B. Information Connected to Lee Harvey Oswald by the

Mexico City Station Prior to the Assassination.

1. Introduction.

2. Information available from the soviet wiretaps)

chattan co tected with or involved Lee Harvey

Oswald.

---

## Page 21

- 5 -

the intercepted conversations linked

3. When were

to Oswald?

4. The photograph of the Mexico Mystery Man.

ACTIONS OF THE

IV. Reconstruction of the CiA Mexico city Station andlHead-

quarter's @Chiano Prior to the Assassination of Presi-

dent John F. Kennedy.

A. Introduction - CIA Interest in and Liaison with FBI

Regarding American

Citizens in Contact with Soviet

Bloc Embassies in Mexico City. '

B. Narative.

-

V. Mexico City Station Reporting of Information Concerning

Oswald After the Assassination of President Kennedy.

A. Reporting of Information Concerning the Mexico Mystery

VI!

Man..

B. Reporting of Information FRom the Electronic Inter-

cept Operation Aimed)at the Soviet Embassy.

C. Silvia Duran.

Concerning Oswald's Activities in Mexico

Not Available at the time of the warren commission iNvEstication

Silvia

Duran.

The Cubans--Afcue and Mirabal.

C.

Elena/

Garro de Paz.

D/.

Oscar

Contreras Lartigue.

Reconstruction of Oswald's Activities

in Mexice.

A. Introductio

B. Narrative.

=

---

## Page 22

- 5A -

VI. Information Not Available at the Time of the Warren

Commission Investigation.

A. Silvia Tirado (nee Duran)

1. House Select Committee on Assassinations interview

of Silvia Tirado.

2. CIA information not available at the time of the

Warren Commission investigation.

a. (LIRING/3)alLegation!

b. The possibility that Silvia Duran was an agent

for either American, Cuban or Mexican intelligence.

(1)

was Silvia Duran an agent for American or

Mexican intelligence

(2) was Silvia Duran a Cuban intelligence agent

B. The Cubans.

1. Eusebio Azcue Lopez.

2. Alfredo Mirabal Diaz.

C. Elena Garro de Paz.

1. Elena's story as reported October 5, 1964.

2. October 12, 1964, CIA memo for the record.

3. November 24, 1964, CIA informant report.

4. November 24, 1964 meeting between Elena and Legal

Attache officers.

'5. Chales Thomas' first meeting with Elena Garro where

Lee Harvey Oswald is discussed.

6. Chales Thomas' meeting with Elena Garro on December

25, 1955.

---

## Page 23

- 5B-

2

7. December 27, 1965, Legal Attche memo to the U.S.

Ambassador re: Elena

Garro.

8. CIA investigation of Elena Garro's allegation that

she created a disturbance at the Cuban Embassy on

November 23, 1963.

9. Legal Attache February 23, 1966, memo to the

U.S. Ambassador regarding Elena Garro's allegation.

10. Legal Attache memo re: Elena Garro's assertion that

she had stayed at the Hotel Vermont.

11. Charles

Thomas' September 30, 1969, letter to the

State Department and the Legal Attache's response.

12. House Select Committee on Assassinations investi-

gation of Elena Garro's allegations.

D. Oscar Contreras Lartigue.

VII. Analysis of Lee Harvey

Oswald's activities in Mexico City.

A. Introduction.

•B. Did Lee Harvey Oswald of an Imposter Contact the Cuban

And

Soviet. COnsulates in Mexico City?

C. Other Than His Visits to the Cuban and Soviet Consulates,

What were Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico City?

D. Was

Lee Harvey Oswald travelling alone in Mexico?

---

