feerterascioase { 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

| ‘SECRET

Review of Files - Menuel Ray y Rivero
C_DCD Documents — > it
May 2, 197 :

Betsy Palmer

40819

1. Memo dated 24 Oct 1962 to Chief, Contact Division, from Chief, San
Francisco Office
Subject: Suitability of Manuel Ray and Miro Cardona for Important
Roles in a Possible New Cuban Government

| source of exceptional value.

visited in Miami a bout 25 former Castro supporters

a@ broad political eam eee the impression from many of the
bans that they suspec’ Ray of being a "possible Commmist sleeper".

reluctant to pass along this information, because accusations were
ry broad.

2. ~Hmfomation report dated 16 July 1962 ani Earlier f
Source: Cuban National (Alien File #a-12570921) who asked for an
interview on occasion of first contact with CIA.

Cannot vouch for his bona fides. Had credential indicating membership i
branch of revolutionary army's intelligence service, now in exile in U.
and maintaing connections with colleagues in that country.

A friend of his reports plans to assassinate top Castro leadership in Cuba.
To be done by poison’ -- "Clostridium Botulinum" which is strong, odorless,
and tasteless. Takes about 12 days to kill. About 5cc would do the job.
Waiting for next visit of major delegation from a Commmist country --
dinner in honor of the occasion should bring together most of the important
members of the regime and that is when the attempt will be made.

2. Cable dated Oct. 3, 1961 - WA CITE WYOR 4902 Support (Travis) info Lf
Branch from Daniels. Source is Ernesto Dezaldo - Cuban lewyer now
living in New York City. Stated the MRP in Havana is far less radical than
under the leadership of Ray, who has been completely discredited in recent
months. Primary purpose today is (a) assassination of top leaders in Castro
regime and (B) sabotage of important industrial and government installations
in Havana. Strength of MRP in Havana estimated to exceed 1,000 -- success
measured more in terms of fund raising ability and blowing up of buildings.

3. Information dated. June 4, 1961, Subject: Underground Student leader
Comments on Post-invesion Cuba. Reporting officer talked with

ISIDRO BORJA, on the leaders of BRE. Borja says top DRE members in jail
or in e friendly embassy in Hevena but said new leaders heve been selected
end will resume sabotage activities shortly. Thought the underground could
restore tension in Cube in 3-4 months. However, said outside help needed
to get rid of Castro. Cleimed that prior to invasion, is was possible to
buy almost anything in Cuba from Castro officials -- they were tainted by
corruption. Since Castro's victory at Bay of Pigs, his popular support is
estimated to be around 80-85%. Most support is out of fear because the
people believe he will be in power permanently. Borja said DRE outside of
@uba working hard for release of former leader, Alberto Muller from prison.

SECRET

/ 80-/0KL 3 +1OS SO


4
DCD Documents - Manuel Ray y Rivero tits N26
Page 2

Betsy Palmer

4, Memo to Acting Chief, Contact Division dtd 20 May 1964
From: Chief, Miami Field Office
Subject: Alleged "New York Times" Publicity Build-up for Manolo Ray

Hal Hendrix, Scripps-Howard L.A. correspondent believes NY Times publicity
‘buildup for Ray in full swing. Tad Szulc reporting Ray's war movements from
Miami. Also with Szulc is close friend, Henry Raymont of the Times.

Hendrix said Times playing up Ray while downplaying Artime and Gutierrez
Menoyo. Think's Times exaggerating Ray's plans to take teams of highly
trained guerrillas into Cuba, and that Ray's “war" is little more than an
MGM-type New York Times production so fer.

SECRET


; eee
| SECRET oS

Review of Manuel Rey y Rivero Files, Volumes I_- VIII

March 29, 1978
Volume I Undated to ‘September 1960 ,

TI. cable suggests that ‘an offer of financial assistance to Ray's wife
and children from CIA rather than through the FRD may pay large future
dividends. Family to arrive circa September 1960.

2. Cable to Director
From: MASH
19 September 1960
Increasing suspicion RAUL CHIBAS a Castro plant. Since exfiltration by
KAPPES, CHIBAS has laid low but back in picture as representative of RAY.
» Common knowledge that CHIBAS brought KAPPES out of Cuba, but should be

oted that KAPPES has since been in and out of Cuba three times with
no apparent difficulties.

CHIBAS' sources of information:
Mason in U. S. government
Mamuel de Jesus ani Bender as FRD representatives
Nino Diaz as Alianza representative
Don Hogan Kappes as Alberto Fernandex representative.

This should get a good picture of the U.S. anti-Castro activities.

3. Summer 1960. Ray very actively recruited to become FRD member.
CTA considered him an important political asset. RAULCHIBAS, Ray's
assistant, spoke for him with U.S. authorities. Urged strong organization
7 insidg, Qube before outside help could be effective. . CHIBAS meets with
Bendex "9/7/60, says he is in favor of FRD but completely “committed to
Ray and would check with him. eee eee eres eed ‘

4. 27 September 1960.
Memo to Western Hemisphere/4 Chief
From: Rudolph E. Gomez, Acting Chief, WH
Subject: - Approval from State to Include Manuel Ray Rivero in the
FRD Complex

= At a 20 September 1960 meeting, Ray's name was suggested for inclusion
“4n FRD and State desired to look further into his background. Ray was

_) @dseussed again on 9/27/60 with Mr. Divine who further conferred with
| pmbassador Mallory same day and Mallory approved Ray's inddusion.

"5. September 29, 1960 cable from MASH to WHO indicates MASH somewhat
doubtful about Ray's feelings toward U.S. and continued dealings with
_ this group needs further policy consideration.

*... There at | restricted CI/OA folder on Ray of this 20] file held unier

C#85544
oe ik aboot -- documents sent for microfilming in July 7, 1967.
oe (icra 12222} 3 November 1963 201 239298

:
6. Ray granted Provisional Operation Approval (POA) on 25 October 1960. i
(form says, Green list attachedc 104591) ‘


SECRET

Volume I - Manuel Ray Pt
- 11440822

7. PRQ Part 2/ 169: c85514
Section I (Contact and Development

Woodrow C. Olien met Ray October 1958 when Ray was ‘head of Civic Resistence
Movement in Havana. Three clandestine meetings were held prior to
1 January 1959, attended by Olien, Wallace A. Growery, ) YE
member) who originally introduced Olien to Ray. After fanuary 1!
@iven important post in revolutionary government and Olien has seen him
only twice since, Olien paising as political officer to State Department.

Section II of PRQ states Ray is friendly to U.S., once having received
a gpant for special study there. A dedicated, patriotic Cuban, opposed to
Communism but taken no active part in combatting it.

8. én undated, unaddressed letter from Antonio Gonsales Mora, Jr. ---
P.S. SaysJoaquin Sanjenis appears to be a person in whom CIA has great
confidence. Linked to Artime conspiracy. Responsible for all "inter-

Cuban" intelligence matters. Is a "shady character" -- gangster background --
gives impression of mental retardation. Not known as individual of any
importance, but he is! "An inexplicable affair"

9. PRQ Part 2 (conta)

Section VI -- Subject has definite political action potential, is
a pro-democratic official of government who is not in sympathy with aims
of international Commnism and who is interested in strengthening ties
between Cuba and U. S. Probably would never consent to agent status, but
could by persuasion and argument be encouraged to influence policies of
his government along lines compatible with U.S. government policies.

Section XIV -- Information in PRQ Parts I and II were obtained from
file research and personal contact with subject.



7 ; SECRET Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel y Rivero Files, Volumes I - VIII
March 29, 1978 Rey y Rivero Files. 1

Volume II
* October 1, 1960 - November 22, 1960

14210, 23

*- As of 21 November 1960, MRP organized as follows:

Manuel Ray - Chief

“Rayl Chibas -.Sepeial Assistant to Ray

Juan Esteves Ramires - Secretary

Ramon Barguin ~ Military and Intelligence matters
Cisneros - Chief of MRP in Cuba

1. 10/4/60 Cable fon|[claims that new Cuban resistance group
organized under Ray a s FOo-500 men in Las Villas Province. Not
part of FRD but in touch with it.

% 2. 10/7/60 Cable from Havane. AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO has withdrawn
from FRD. JUSTO CARRILLO and FELIPE PAZOS will be integrated into Ray's
MRP. VARONA wishes to join, also, but Ray insists VARONA return to
Cuba to do so.

3. 10/12/60 Cable to Director. RAMON BARQUIN claims CARRILLO and ARANGO
gre going to boycott FRD Executive Committee and sabotage its worki
Barquin planning to join with Pazos, Ray, Chibas, MERO and QUEVEDO to
form a new frente and then request union with FRD. If accepted, Barquin
would become military head. If Barquin does not get U.S. government
support for this plan, he will return to Cuba to try to overthrow Castro
ani win election on an anti-Yankee platform.

aaa 4, 10/17/60 contact report fromallace A. perlett)
Subject: Meeting with JUAN ESTEVEZ and JORGE BERUFF, 10/13/60
é Cubans said Ray's group will not lower themselves to answer “Fidelismo
without Fidel" charge and let their actions speak for themselves. MRP
is highly disciplined and feel the majority of Cuban people favor thir
platform. Its leaders are interchangeable. If Ray comes out of Cuba,
Chibas or Estevez could go in and take his place.

5. 10/2k/60 Memo for files
Subject: Representative of Manuel Ray to Professional Groups

ENRIQUE HIRAM GUTIERREZ y RODRIGUEZ (dob 5/20/31, Havana) travels
frequently to Puerto Rico on architectural business. Also frequently ae
, enters U. S. at Miami. Represents Ray's organization to various pro-
fessional groups in Havana. Also serves as courier to Miami.

6. DRE information. 10/24/60 Cable otatesfianiunn reported receiving
¢ letter from ANTONIO GARCIA, DRE representative in Cuba that organization
QU/ is going well but needs funds and material aid. MASH {Esks Muelle:
i] get details of Garcia's “groupos de acciqn" and details of organization.
{ MASH [Bave Muller $500Jfor Garcia.[(-MullerJis concerned about Manolo Ray

SECRET
<


k

File review, Manuel Ray
Volume ii of xvili
Page 2

whom he says is gaining strength in Cuba. Says students eager to join
active group and will go to Ray if DRE can't get help soon.

,

qe Provisional Operational Approval granted to Ray on 10/26/60.
8. 10/26/60 Cable to Director from Havana reports Ray held MRP meeting
on 10/23/60 and made following statements:

Be MAJOR WELLTAM MORGAN had been very helpful to MRP ~ responsible
for obteining most of their weapons.

’b. In four months, MRP will have 20,000 militants throughout Cuba.
Organized now in all provinces except Pinar del Rio. Invasion
could not take place for 4 months but FRD still in‘favor of
earlier date. :

Ce CARRILLO and ANGEL del CERRO have left FRD and now with MRP

MRP urging Ray to escape Cuba and they feel it is only a matter of time
until he fs picked up and executed. MRP manifesto will be released this
weekend.

9. 10/28/60 Monthly payments of [p00 approves for Ray's wife in
behalf of Bender group.

10. 10/28/60 Memo for Record :

{Subject: Conversation of CARRILLO and\PAUL J. wansoul Chief, MASH
Economic philosophy: When FRD first formed + was attacked by RUBIO
PADILLA as "Fidelismo without Fidel." Now FRD saying same thing about
MRP.

ferona tells HUNT that he received information that Ray wanted to leave

: 11/5/60 Cable to Director from MASH
ve

x

Cuba and was to be exfiltrated clandestinely by Bender group.

12. 11/8/60 Memo for Record Gohn D. Peters _
Subject: (Contact} report on meeting with ROGELIO GONZALES

Gonzales considers Ray highly dangerous because of his ambition to play
prominent role in Cuban government after overthrow of Castro. Thinks he
poises threat to Varona's authority inside Cuba. Ray appears to have
support of middle class, politicians and professtonals. Should Ray join
FRD, Gonzales thinks he will still operate on a unilateral basis while
seeking to supercede FRD with MRP.

13. 11/11/60 Cable to Director from JMASH

Ray arrived Tampa morning of 11/10/60. Mash officer staying with him
until surfacing date which depends on safe arrival from Cuba of two other
individuals. They are the last of the HUBER MATOS escapee group known by
Ray to still be hiding in Cuba.

SECRET



|

Review Of Mamiel Ray
Volume 44 of xviit 11440825
Page 3 oy

1k. 11/14/60 cable to Director from MASH.
Ray to surface at press conference scheduled for 11/16/60 in Miami.

. BY Cable to Director from MASH
On 11/15, 60, Parlettjaliay Benier, met with Ray in complete privacy.
fear pas oe tha, youthful, .sdttepoken, unassuming,. almost_Iumle Ray
is.a natural leader of highest intellect, deepest sincerity ani convistion."
ten dlbde- ter pateans posture doubtful as far as U.S. government acceptance is
con .

Explained to Ray the U.S. government's desire to have all Cuban exiles
unified in their efforts. Ray.says MEP does not wish to reinstate 1930

constitution. Provisional governmant of 30 honorable Cubans would be
established and elections held 18 months thereafter. Castro laws passed
at beginning of his regime to be promigated. State would regulate
private investment and utilities would be nationalized.

Ray wants to keep MRP “lean and hungry" -- each member to have specific
responsibilities ani feel important to revolution.

Ray asked for permission to start a fund drive in Cuba and U.S. Also
asked for $10,000 by next Wednesday -- Bender made commitment.

Ge eves net result of meeting was establishment of private MRP-

a Se and door remains open for some kind of relationship with FRD.

Ray agrees to discuss this with Miro Cardona. Of all the groups being
supported, FRD, MRP and MRR are most significant. All Cuban groups seem
to be looking to Bender group to show a preference before joining one of
the above three. How long current flexibility can be maintained is
problematical.

Subject: Meeting with King and Esterline on subject of handling
MRP, 11/18/60

* - 13/21/60 Memo for Record

Consensus was that Ray did not politically represent anything to cheer i
about. Writer felt MRP opposed to joining FRD and recognized need to
control MRP and wean it away to the extent possible from its leaders.
Could be done by controlling financial and military support. It was

agreed in meeting with Mr. Barnes that financial and military support
for MRP be channelled through FRD.

17. 11/23/60 Contact Report: Meeting with Ray and Chibas in NYC, 11/22/60
Ray says MRP has contacts at Isle of Pines with two garrisons and can
expect about 750 men to desert Castro at proper time. CAPTAIN CAPOTA is
contact with Ray's group.

Ray's people also in contact with commander of prison where Huber Matos _
iis incarcerated. Matos believes PADILLA, the prison commander, would assis®

SECRET



SEGREL Betsy Palmer
File review of Mamel Ray

lume ii of xviii a
ae 44140826

jim in an escape. Ray interested in single operation to get military
defectors and free Matos. Wants to effect plan on 11/27/60.

Ray wants assistance from U.S. -- military information and supplies.

18. 11/2h/60 to ctor from JMASH

Meeting with[AMCHIRP-1 Jon 11/23, revealed he had information that MRP in
Havana had capabilities to blow up power plant and TV stations in Havana --
a diversionary tactic planned to coordinate with Isle of Pines operation.
Ray expects Isle of Pines operation support about 12/15/60.

* Notation about Cable: “Operation Unity" is to create dramatic show which
will demonstrate that Manolo Ray is wrong when telling contacts in U.S.
that his group is the only one capable of action."

19. 11/24/60 Cable to Director from Havana.
Operation Unity involves MRR, MDI, OA, 30th of November Group and MAR (not
MAR of PEPIN RIVERO).

MAR and OA groups to blow electric cables in Regla area. MDC group, at
same time, to make assassination attempt on CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ at
University of Havana.

20. 11/30/60 Cable to Director from Havana

JULIO ANGEL METRE advised planning to travel to Miami 12/1/60 escorted by
Brazilian emhassador to Panama. ‘Accompanied by ambassador's wife. MESTRE
will be introduced to Ray and will offer services of MDC to Ray at that
time. Mestre says plan is approved by "DR. IUCAS" (JOSE FERNANDEZ BADUE)
MDC coordinator in Cuba. -


: SEGRET. Betsy Palmer
File Review - Manuel Ray y Rivero Volume III of XVIIL
March 30, : ey

December 1960 - January 1961 Att +0827 P

1. Cable 12/6/60, to Director troa{co1a )

Ray contacted byfWeisinger] and madé statement that Isle of Pine's
operation failed his opinion because Bender failed to forward paper
to Havana with key to operation.

2. 12/8/60 Cable to Director from WAVE

Ray advised fitecineed he is departing for Washington same day to visit
ERNESTA OAS and others. In New York on 12/9 to contact
Raul Chibas. Return Miami about. 12/11/60.

3. 12/23/60 Cable to Director from Havana indicates Ray wishes return to
Cuba as soon as possible asks that OLIEN make arrangements{ through
his official channel. Doesn't want Cubans in WAVE or Cuba to know of
his return.

4. 12/22/60 Information report from U.S. citizen, free-lance writer and
part-time sugar ‘broker (DONALD HOGAN]

Says Miro Cardona has accepted teaching position in Puerto Rico effective
early January 1961. Is disgusted with bickering among anti-Castro Cubans
and will sit on sidelines for time being. Is partivularly opposed to
Ray -- program is too Marxist and Ray is an opportunist.

% 5. 1/16/61 Information Report from U.S. national in a U.S. governemnt
~ agency... Source had contact with DR. GUILLERMO SALAZAR SANCHEZ, former :
Cuban ambassador to Switzerland and DR. SERGIO ROJAS SANTAMARINA, former
Cuban Ambassador to United Kingdom. Salazar said he had heard froma
reliable source that Ray was not a bona fide defector ani still acting
On‘behalf of Castro end is a member of the “Blue Legion". (no: further

explanation. )

Dr. Salazar mentioned group called "The Ten Unknowns" who are key figures
in making Communist policy in Latin America. (Ray not implicated as
One of these). 8.29": :

SECRET —


Review of Manel. Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes 1 - XVIII (201-239298
April 6, 1978 414440828

VOIWME IV - February 1, 1961 - March 31, 1961 ’

Betsy Palmer

x 1. Operation Approval granted for Ray's use as a political asset on
T February 1961
“2, Memo to WH/KtSecurity, From wH/4?Cr
Subject: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo Group
Date: 23 February 1961

Ray pressuring Mr. Droller to have four individuals freed from McAllen
Detention Camp who belong to Gutierrez group. Ray claims they are
menbers of his group and have been most active against Castro regime
in Cuba. They are as follows: ASENCIO, Suarez, Lazaro .
LESNIK, Menendez, Max DPOB 8 Sept 1930,
Vueltas, Las Villas
PORTA Bolanos, Gustavo
: REDONDO, Gonzalez, Roger
| 3. . Cable to Bell, from JMWAVE
Date: March 1, .1961
Artime advises that Ray's group opposed to banning Commnist Party and
in favor of “nationalizing everything". Ray favors maintaining trade with
USSR, wants no change in present agrarian reform program.

: 4. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell
eet. Date: March 10, 19€1

INS 4s concerned over the increased news coverage of Ray's arrival in
U.S. and activities here. Afraid they will be confronted about Ray's
arrival (which was describad as “bleck" in another communication) so
ON _ UMWAVE asked to re-advise Ray that his story is that on 10 Nov 1960, ‘he
: . ended somewhere on Keys in a fishing boat, made way to road where picked’
up by INS patrol car, taken to WAVE area, examined, declared refugge and
‘released with admonition to always keep INS advised of his address.

.- Subject: _ Recent Cuban Developments :

x Memo to S- Dr. Berle, From: ARA - Philip 'W. Bonsal "*~
sUeDate:.: March 16, 1961 7

Conversation with Jose Miro Cardona and Berle, reveals that Cardona has
“misgivings about Ray and Pazoz and the MRP. Says Ray is bitterly anti-
fmerican as well as probably totalitarian in his thinking. Je no longer
believes Ray has any considerable support inside Cuba. Ghinks Ray group
endeavoring to exercise influence in our government so as to be the major
recipient of whatever assistance can be obtained here. He is particularly
Hide d#k concerned about the role played by Felipe Pazos.

SECRET



au SFERET Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray files
Volume i of xviii
Page 2

* 6. Field Information Report

Subject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts of Manuel Ray Rivero
Date: - 16 March 19621

Sources: . Oscar SALAS Marrero (paragraphs 1-11) Knew Ray in >]

Dr. Jose ALVAREZ Diaz, former Minister of Finance under Prio (Pg 12)
Dr. Jorge BERUFF, former president of Banco de Desarrollo
Economico de Cuba, (pg 13)

Note: Cover note pencilled comment (Thé:content is so biased and mixed
with untruth that it would be a disservice to the intelligence commmity
to disseminate it.

Synopsis of paragraphs 1-11.( Dr. Salas fays during his childhood Ray was

a Protestant but today is col ‘tely atheistic. Said Ray organized the MRC
against Batista and shortly after Batista's fall, MRC and 26th of July
Movement fused into one, and as soon as Castro came into power, control

of the organization was given to the Commnists. Tells of Ray's association -
with Castro and that he did not resign his position when his ow brother
‘was. renounced by Castro. Stated that Ray's rupture with Fidel was due

to the fact that Ray opposed the idea of shooting Hubert Matos as a
traitor. Ray resigned his post but said publicly that he approved and
“supported the Castro regime without any mental reservations. Says in
“Cuban clandestine circles Ray is regarded as boastful, ostentatious a
“deceitful. Intimte friends of Ray feel that he is a man of anti-democratic
procedures, and does not like to take advice, even from members of his ow
movement. = : :

Synopsis of paragraph 12.[ Dr. Alvarez aid Ray was in favor of maintaining

relatdons with USSR and not making Commmist Party illegal. Said that

although Ray withdrew all these statements when threatened with press

coverage, ‘Alvarez |ebinks they are representative of Ray's thinking and

would ‘try to put Ideas into practive if he ever came to power.(Alverez >)
‘-@lso mentioned Rays thinking on-nationalization of public services,

socialized medicine, nationalization of banks, etc.

Synopsis of paragraph 3.6 Dr. Beruff fsaid Ray well-intentioned with no
Commmnist ‘tendencies. Cited a mee’ at which the basic points of the

MRP platform were discussed and said that since Ray was in disagreement with
the others on mst of the points, Dr. Felipe Pazos acted as chairman of the
meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple member of the group. Out of this
meeting came a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of
wthe banks and public utilities.

On 9 March, Ray said that ideas attributed to him in paragraph 12 were not

true and part of a "campaign egainst him by Mr. Pawley of the Miami City
Transit Company". :


‘a SECT tE i Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray files
Volume 1¥ of xviii

Page 3 4141440230

7. Report dated March 17, 1961, Marked Urgent

"T¢ has been reported by a very reliable source that Manuel Ray (MRP)

is bringing as an Adviser, Professor Fiterre from Habana University -

This man Fiterre is an undisclosed Communist that has always openly admitted
and braged about being aCommmnist.

ae Memorandum for the Record
Date: 27.March 1961
Subject: Ray accepts appointment to Council: -----
Signed: Gerard Droller

Miro was able to convince Ray to join CRC. Thus, as of 27 March 1961,
Council's composition isas follows: Chairman: Miro Cardona; Board of
Directors: Verona, Hevia, Carrillo, Maceo, Ray and Artime.

9. Memorandum for the Record
Date: 27 March 1961
Subject: Reported Anti-MRP Rally Promoted by Aureliano Sanchez Arango
Signed: B..E. Reishhardt

Julio Lobo reported that Sanchez is planning a rally in Miami, 29 March to
protest against the Ray/Pazos combine in the revolutionary council. Writer
says, Obviously, such a rally at this time could be most damaging and some
_ attempt should be made to get to Sanchez to take the steam out of this
maneuver.


Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII
April 6, 1978
VOLUME V - 1 - 1961 41 44 0831.

f 1. Cable from JMWAVE to Bell
Date: April 3, 1961

Ray meets. wi OMenfini said he was not as yet yrepared to join Ges” Sala
Miro had welshed on commitments and while willing to acc: Ray into CRC,

not willing to give him any voice in the Council. tempts to
convince Ray he was doing great disservice to Cuban people by refusing to
serve: Wi tititeetD.:

2. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell
Date: April 4, 1961

"To test actual MRP capabilities inside request you inform Ray to hit
targets G, I and K during period 5-10 April. attack target 0 including
diesel locomotive engines immediately. Will forward additional targets if
Ray shows any capability."

x 3. Letter to Hiitor (Pencilled note: Propaganda against MRP by Attime's
c replacement Jose Manuel Hernandez Puentes received from QD Date 6 Apr 61.)

"I ema Cuban who still thinks that Cuba can be rehabilitated after the fall
of Castro. For this reason many Cubans have been baffled by the list of
names now given as the saviors of Cuba for a Provisional Gove: rmment. Among
these are such notorious Castro followers as: Ray, Barquin, Pazos, Rufo
Lopez Fresquet, Chibas and others whose names remind us of an era of
mourning, persecution and misery."

yc t+ Report on Manmel Ray received Fnrigue Molinet,) a road ani airfield
construction engineer under Batista regitie. Cover note dated 4/7/61.

“LlelinesJoutitines his distaste for Ray, citing at the beginning his refusal

leave Castro even after the questionable suicide of his brother, Rene.

‘After Ray was ousted from his Cabinet job, he continued to visit Castro,
occupying a prominent position in all Castro's public appearances. Said
that even before Castro, Ray was an active member of the Cuban Orthodox
Party, highly infiltrated with commmists. Claims that when Ray in his
Cabinet position, indoctrinations programs were held expousing commnistic
ideals. Also while Minister of Public Works, claims he (Ray) threw out
hundreds of employees without due cause and destroyed every successful
contractor that existed. b

* 5. Memorandum for the Record
Subject: Custody of Revolutionary Council, 19-20 April 1961
Signed:(- Robert F. Moroney
Date? 2 April 1961

Relates that on 19 April 1961, President Kennedy met with the six members of

FRD's Revolutionary Council where President expressed his deep sorrow and
concern over the failure of the military effort (Bay of Pigs). Ray one of the

—SEGRET


q- Se

Review of Manuel Ray Files
Volume iv of xviii 111140832
Page 2 oe

6. Memorandum for the Record
Date: 5 May 1961
Subject; Manolo Ray - Comments on his Anti-Castro Activities

: Signed:.Calvin, Hicks WH/1/pM/operations

“Ray is balieved to have accomplished pratically nothing towards the effort
to overthow. Castro. Instead, it seems that whenever we played with his so-
called assets, we were burned. He is notorious for claiming assets or
operations, several days after some other group had already set them up or
claimed them. Whenever it came to producing anid backing up his claims, he
always came up with excuses for not producing, rather than results. He has
always tended to try to take over other goups, rather than cooperate with
them, and when he couldn't take them over he would "politic" against them.
His actions all seemed to be directed toward making him the future power
in Cuba rather than toward overthrowing Castro. It is believed that Manolo
RAY is so far "left" in his thinking that he would be as dangerous (or more
so in the long run) to United States interests as Castro, if he ever got to
be the power in Cuba."

[. Memorandum for the Record
« wdHstd [i

Subject: Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP
Date:

In a 12 May 1961 meeting, Ray promises to write a prospectus of his plans
for MRP within ten days. Not received by 2 June, but Ernesto Betancourt

k for financial support for MRP activities. Tracy Barnes agrees
at no money should be given Ray until bis plans are studied.
for support separate from FRD since Ray has withdrawn from
her states in Memo, “4i-I would like to phint out the
security ris! rent in any arrangements with Hj BENTANCOURT-CISNEROS
trio. These fellows have had easy access to the White House and to the
Department, are notorious for their ‘planned leaks', will probably presume
all the Department officials they deal with are privy to the arrangement, and
before we know it the whole exile commmity will be well aware that we are
providing financial and material support to the RAY group."

8. Cable to Bell trom(Caracas )
Date June 8, 1961
On June 2, Venezuelas governemt refused to issue a visa to Manolo Ray.

9e Cable to Director fron{Caracas,) dated June 28, 1961. re: meeting with
dose R. Barbeito on 20 June in Valencia. Barbeito claims was member of
MRP of Manolo Ray and took part clandestine activities Havana. Admitted
was commnist "many years ago" but now completely opposed to Castro and
Communism.

SECRET
_


: fe SECRET Betsy Palmer

Review of Mamiel Ray Files
Volume v of xviii
— 11110833
10. ‘Intelligence Report

Date: 7-11 July 1961

Place: San Juan, P.R.

Source: Cuban Exile Lawyer

Eveluation: F-6

Report transmits information concerning activities, persons visited and
purpose of visit of Ray to Puerto Rico, terminating when Ray hurridely left
Puerto Rico following press account that he had been removed as Coordinator
of the MRP.

Source seid MRP leaders in exile believe Rays dismissal due to propaganda
end pressures by the CIA which brought about the impression that the obstacle
to receipt of help from outside (money, arms, etc) was Ray himself and that
onefRay removed, they would receive all types of help. ‘The exile leaders are
of opinion that it was also brought about because Ray was a divisionist

inasmuch as he had abandoned Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Council.

S&REL


- = , # il SECRET

i Betsy Palmer

{ Reviewof Manuel Ray y Rivero Files Volumes I - XVIII

April 6, 1978
Volume VI - August 1, 1961 - June 30, 1° 11410834

’

1. Cable to JMWAVE from Director
Date: August 1, 1961

FEI conducting investigation on MRP and Ray and Director indicates he
needs to know purpose of investigation to respond properly.

K 2. Dispatch from Chief of Base, JMWAVE
, Date: August 4, 1961
Subject: Debriefing of [Father Bastarrica)

Father Bastarrica)recently arrived from Cuba as a political-exile. At a‘
uncheon meeting, he reported as follows:

MRP formed in Cuba around 26 July 1960. Organizers were Dr. Amalio Fiallo
Gonzalez, Dr. Antonio Fernandez Nuevo, Reynol Gonzalez, Humberto Perez Herrera.
All these men belonged to group called accion Democratica. The name of MRP
was suggested by Raul Chibas and in itself it does not constitute a party
or group but rather a coalition of several small groups, which were the
following:

@. The 20 May group, led by Manuel Ray

b. Accion Democratica, led by Dr. Fiallo

¢. Accion Verde Olivo, led by Dr. Rufo Lopez Fresquet

a. 30 November Movement, led by David Salvador (never really joined)

e. Chibas' group with Jorge Beruff and Felipe Pazos

f. Dr. Valdez Pino, in asylum in Embassy of Peru and belonged

to Accion Democratica.
[ Father Bastarrica' s opinion of Ray is that he had no way of judging whether
is Commmist or Marxist. Lacks quality of leadership because he

does not publically hold to a definite political, social and economic ideology.
«He appears ‘to’agree with every-person he talks to, never arguing with them
or opposing them, all of which*shows he has no ideology and makes him a
very dangerous man. Is extremely ambitous for himself, with great desire
for power.

wm for Chief, Wil Division, dated 10 october 1961, fron{warren S. _)
AGERE General - Cuban Matters; Specific - Manuel (Monolo) Ray
Board of Puerto Rico announced on 9 October 1961 that Ray has

accepted position as consultant to that Board. Board is an important agency

of Puerto Rican government, attached to the Office of the Governor. Has

broad powers over economic and social planning and is active in exercising

these powers. Ray to receive $12,000 per year. Ray presently in

Venezuela but expected to arrive Puerto Rico within a week.

SECRHT


Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files :
Volume vi of xviii Lids 0835
Page 2

’

4. Cable to Director from JMMAVE, dated May 27, 1962 discusses front page
article in Miami Herald of this date by James Buchanan entitled "Miro fades
as Exile Chief: Three latin Leaders Behing Ray". States that Ray has the
backing of Gov. Monoz Marin, Pres. Romulo Betancourt ani former President
Jose Figueras and that Ray has taken over post with blessings of the U.S.
4P urther states Ray's appointment as "Chief in Exile" came from underground
: in Cuba according to Joaquin Godoy, Provisional MRP head in Miami. Article
f credits Cubans in Miami with saying "new man in field" is Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
who has been special asst. to State Dept. and is also member of Pres.
Kennedy's special task force on Leftin America. Implication being that
“Berle is running new U.S. sponsored Cuban effort. Release causing furor
in local Cuban colony. a

Cable to JMWAVE from Director, 28 May 1962 states State Department spokesman
will state story without foundation at a noon press briefing this date. :

‘. | 5, Listing of principal persons in Puerto Rico with the MRP

RAY, Manuel PORTELA, J. Migues
PAZOS, Felipe CARMONA, Claudio
BARQUIN, (Col) Ramon ESTEVEZ, Jeromino
MELENDEZ, Juan BERGNUS

GELAVERT ALVAREZ, Gabriel
NODAL, Rodolfo PORTELA, Sara

designed to attain the liberation of Cuba. ».General Thesis states that ...
MRP believes that the strongest position for representation and canalization
of aspirations of the large majority of the Cuban people is offered by the
set of ideas and aims of the democratic left.

siest KE on 9 gine 1964 Rey transmits a detailed study of a general program :

ooure


ib eaecttieian SEERET___ Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes TI - VIII

April 2h, 1978 11110235
Volume VT. gWy 1960 ~ qugust 1962

* Cable dated July 2, 1962 to Director frou{San Juan 7}
Glear that Manolo Ray fooked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican
government. Wo evidence, however, that Puerto Rican goverment is
supporting the MRP. Believe record will show that while our past
contact with Ray has not always been happy one, it always revealing
of Ray's intentions.

* 2. Memo for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonso Rodriguez 12 July 1962
Subject: Manolo Ray Rivero

“Ray has indicated to WAVE sources that whereas he is not persona grata
with the Agency, he has important political connections in Washington and.
is thus kept informed of mch of the Agency's activities. Ray's new
organization is not to be military or engage in military thrusts against
Cuba because military activity is presently controlled by the Agency and
cannot be wrested from it at this time. Ray's new organization will
cooperate with the Consejo and attempt to move in on it with the ultimate
aim of taking over and dominating it." .

cy Memorandum for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonsoy | Rodriguez 25 July 1962
Subject: Manolo Ray Meeting in New York

Ray sorry he. joined FRD prior to April invation. Let tide of time suck

him in and take him along. Obvious to him that show run in good faith but
bad judgment. Ray discusses hope that JURE will be long-lasting organization
dn Cube. “Ray's political views ase assessed as democratically oriented, and
sf he became ruler of Cuba, his greatest preoccupation would be with economic
Progress. "Rodriguez says Ray is not to be unier-‘estimated. Commands
respect because he is well educated and has something to contribute.

mi. Ray begins to give information about possible defectors from _Castro.
Cable dated 25 July 1962 reports that Ray to: Dard R. Naumanjthat
- Armando Hart Davalos is a feasible target.
Fy chs cae rang ae former mgr., Kings Ranch, Cuba
}- Additional information to a July 1962 memorandum ‘from Jack Malond (named
on interoffice route slip). Information obtained from difference sources
from persons close to Ray and their views are complete reliable. Ray did
not leave Castro's cabinet because of ideological or policy discrepancies
with Castro but because of a heated discussion with the Minister of Labor.
Martinez Sanchez, who almost shot Ray after a Cabinet meeting. The sources
of information agree that Ray is not any different than Castro. Some of
them believe he may not have completely severed his relations with Castro
and think he may still be in contact with him. ‘Diplomatic relations were
suspended but recognition was not withdrawn.

to} C. Meche! Says Ray's ethics are poor and he is capable of sacrifycing
his own 8 friends if euch sacrifice turns out in favor of his personal
plans. Claims Ray is irresponsible and ignorant of present international
conditions and particularly of the Cuban social and economic reality.

% G._ Memo from[gack Malone] dated July 16, 1962 Cover letter addressed


| cee area SECRET, Betsy palmer

eerie 14140837

Volume VII continued

Quotes Ray as having said, "When I was Minister of Public Works, we, the
inner circle of the Department, took a course in Marxist economics, and 4f
what we were taught is commnism, I must say that commnism is not as

bad as it is claimed to be."

8. Report on visit with in Puerto Rico during first week of

June, 1962, submitted by (Winterrowi. Raymond. Winterrowi 2
states his general impression of Ray was a good one -- seems of be a moderate,
intelligent man, a little given to hysteria and slogan-mongering. Best
quality is in his skill as an organizer

9. Cable to Director from JMWave, dated Aug 15, 1962 DIR Cite WAVE 7062
Ray had meeting in Miami area 11 or 12 August in which an informant says

Ray stated that he has arsenals in Venezuela and Qominican Republic, has

a B-26 plane, territory available for training in Costa Rica and has the

support through indirect means of U.S. Has invited journalists from New

York Times ani Time Magazine to cover his announcement. of the formation

of JURE.

10. ‘Cable to)Mexico city pron Director, dated 6 August 63 says Ray plans

to ‘travel to‘tentral Amefica late August or September and needs visitors visa
for Mexico. Says he has close acquaintance and wants to make personal
effort to recruit him or talk him into defecting.

CIA makes inquiries in an ettort{ to obtain visa for Ray.)

ll. Cable to Director tron(Gan Juanj] dated August 20, 1962. Ray believes :
usa will defect but needs financial support. .. Jose Gelabert
“to make pitch to Llanusa. Later cable says CIA willing to offer Llanusa

tAvexico city }rrom Director, 23 August 1962 with directions

q to. procure visa permit but make every effort to conceal U.S.
connection. “Ray had agreed in N.Y. meeting to make recruitment or defection
effort towards Cuban Ambassador in Mexico.

Memo to Chief, Task Force W from Alfonso Rodriguez dated 2h aug 1962
Subject:( Operational Use of Ray Expenditure of Funds 7)

Rodriguez. feels beginning collaboration with Ray can be based on three
specific proposals: 1. creation of an intelligence network inside Cuba
C 2. creation of recruitment or defection capability

to assist our efforts in MEXI, RIO, SAGO, and MONT
: 3. immediate effort to recruit in place Carlos LEGHUGA
oh fel ‘ and PRIMELLES.
‘ij; Recommends paying Ray{ #84, 700 lover a six month period to begin this initial
= Operation.

SECRET


. Betsy palmer
Review of Manolo Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes 1 ~ XVIII_
April 2h, 1978 11440838
Volume VIII - September 4, 1962 - December 27, 1962 ,

x 1. Telegram Information Report (circa Sept. 10) Unevaluated information.

Ray in the U.S. 8-9 September. Intends forming new organization. Some of

those participating with Ray in this effort are Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas,
Ramon Barquin and Justo Carrillo. Ray is of the opinion that nothing
will be done about Cuba in the immediate future as the President of the
United States is fulfilling "an expedient of a political nature." However,
there is an ally in the White House who has assured Ray that if he organizes
a purely revolutionary group, he will be heard.

2. Junta Revolucionaria Cubana
Declaration of Principles outline the following areas:

i. Cuban Reaffirmation - recognition of sovereignty of the people, through suffrag<
2. Human Rights - human fraternity and social solidarity for all Cubans
3. Social Justice - equality of opportunity for education, work, homes, etc.
i. Economic Development - intense industrialization
5. Agrarian Reform - Cuban pesantry to own land he cultivates
6. ‘International Relations - break with Soviet bloc
7. Restoration of Legitimate Property - not that under public power
&. Political Parties - Commnist Party will be proscribed
9. Political Prisoners - immediate release

10. Elections - within 18-month period

2. Dispatch to Chief, Task Force ¥ from Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Bad Date obscured

Cyemrtti-Y]provided information on Ray obtained froo{ Silvia KOURI de
- Pendas 28 fellow student of Ray's at Instituto de Segunda “Ensenanza fl in
Havana. Ray never know’to have sympathy for Communist cause. However, one
of his good friends, Pedro Valdes Vivo, is active member of Commnist cell

“and ‘a brother of. Raul Valdes Vivo, now sub-director of Commmist paper
"Noticias de Hoy."

3. Cable to Priority(San Juan,}Info: Priority JMUAVE, Pricrity[Mextco city _]
From: Director (Rodriguez originator) dated 9 Oct 1962

‘Admission visa not pauched 00 forwarding document will be in WAVE hands

10 October forfass ing to Ray. Lechuga is principal target in area of

Ray trip. Stress desire keep Lechuga in place in preference to defection.

4, Memorandum for the Record dated 8 October 1962 tron(Patrick I. Karnley a)
Subject: Notes on Manolo Ray
In conversation with luis Laboy, Laboy said Ray does not have any
significant following among Cuban exiles -- says Ray is honest person
completely motivated by patriotism but lacks qualities of a politician.
Says Ray is too blunt and even Cisneros is not happy with him these days.

Puerto Rican Police are apparently canvassing Cuban exiles regarding Manolo
Ray. In(@N-Lkeport #54 dated 30 Sept 1962, he refere to fact that both he
and Fe: ‘Alvarez Silva were visited by officer of PR Internal Security Force
soliciting their opinions of Ray.

SECRET


SECRET Betsy Palmer

Manuel Ray i
Volume VIII continued 11440239

5. Excerpt from Bohemia Libre 21 October 1962, page 85 Engineer Ray'&
latest attitude
Tettex to magazine from Olga Hernandez, Senturce, PR - an exile
who believes Ray really a Commmist. Her reasons based on Ray's statements
to "El Mundo" on his arrival in exile that after Castro's defeat there
should be maintenance of cultural and economic relations with Russia,
maintenance of militia, mainenance of confiscated property, socialized
medicine, supervision of national schools and gradual supression of private
schools.


bd

SECRET —

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes. I ~ XVIII
April 2h, 1978

4141140840
Volume IX - January 1963 - July 1963 ae

1. Cable to Director trox(caracas, fated Feb. 22, 1963

Betsy palmer

FRANCISCO SUAREZ QUINONES wishes travel to Maimi to attend JURE rally

- 2h February. In view Ref B (WAVE 2462) info that Suarez commmist ani also

MRP member, DCM has asked if any info that Suarez was undercover agent for
MRP or if he may be double agent working for Castro.

2. | Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 2 June 1963
(Title: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the
Central Intelligence Agency”

On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on meeting of JURE exec. board
in his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During meeting,
Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a
trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard
to Cuba and if possible infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said
JURE planning leaflet drop into Cuba which will include such matters as Ray's
Manifesto against the U.S. Government and against the CIA.

3. Cable to Director trow{Paric, dated 19 June 1963 #77272

Ray in Paris 4 contacted by Jervay. } Ray driven to airport by Alberto
Baez with whom Ray spent much time and who seems to be closest to Ray
among his contacts in Paris.. Ray in Paris and Brussels for purpose of

Ctring Frangui and Arcos to agents in place, or defection. Also Cabrera.

Ray convinced Cubans here disillusioned with Castro.C Asks for update of a

st of personnel and addresses of all Cuban embassies in Europe to be ~
passed to him in San Juan and@)] RUMBLE 6 in Paris. Wants to be trained in
short waye system between himself OYIWMBLE 6 and station felt these
were good ideas and could be done.

4. Memo for the Record from Alfohso Rodreguez, dated 19 June 1963

Subject; Manolo Ray
Ray's attitude towards CIA - feels that the Agency has in the past purposely
and actively attempted to destroy him as a political leader and has proot
of at least one CIA officer plotted with certain MRP officials to remove him
from the Mrp as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization.
Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban freedom. "“-- of all the
Cubans I have met, he is the most purposeful, methodical, as well as the most
experienced clandestine operator..." .

5. Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 27 June 1963

Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JURE
feliable information from former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine
movements. JURE meeting dabout 30 March 1963 at home of journalist
Antonio Arias said JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence
Corps with JURE whose function was to infiltrate JURE memoers into various

SECREL


ae : SEGREL Betsy Palmer
42.26842

Volume IX continued

organizations operating in Miami, as well as into some of the agencies of
the U.S. govt. Said intelligence group would produce great results and
stated as an example the infiltration of the U. S. Army. is

6. Dispatch to Chief, Special Affairs Staff from Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Dated July 22, 1963 7
Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero's Opinion of CIA “AUP-2.‘source of info)

“During a conversation on an unspecified date, Anvolving[AMTAUP-2 , Ray and

Rogelio Cisneros Diaz, Ray told Cisneros that they had to be very careful

with CIA agents because they were more dangerous than the Kennedy Administration. ©

The Kennedy Administration would end but the CIA agents always stayed, and

their memory was ‘longer than the memory of elephants and they never forgot

or forgave. Ray told Cisneros that he feared CIA agents would try to

assassinate him because they were irreconcilable enemies."



e Betsy Palmer

Review of Files of Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I - XVIIT

April 24, 1978 11110242
Volume X - August 1963 - September 1963

* 1. Memorandum for the Record from Alfonso Rodriguez, dtd. 2 August 1963
Subject: Meeting with Ray (27 July 1963 in Miami)

“Ray to attempt a sabotage operation against the Havana power plant _ and. wants
201bs high explosives as well as 6-8 thermite grenajes. Requested that the
materials be cached inside Cuba (preferably) or in San Juan. Requested that
“arrangements be made for Rogelio Cisneros to visit Guatanamo to visit his
brother to inform him of JURE plans -- Rodriguez says possibility remote.

Ray planning to visit Caracas and Costa Rica later if he has a visa from
Mexico. Purpose of trip is fund raising.

{> 2.) Cable from JMWAVE to Director #63249 dtd 22 Aug 1963
C Ray's Mexican visa forwarded WAVE by safehand Sept 62 and request it
‘be airmailed to Ray in Puerto Rico..JRay planning trip Costa Rica, Caracas,
Dom. Rep. and Mexico. Departing San Juan 29 August for first leg.

3. Memorandum for the Record dated 23 August 1963, from A. Rodriguez
i * _ Subject: “Ray, Contact Report

Met with Ray in N.Y.C. on 19 August. Rodriguez recommends to Ted Shackley
that ammnition for JURE be cached near Florida Keys. Thinks it necessary

to help Ray this much in order to measure his capabilities. Ray is having

@ 25-foot boat outfitted in Miami area to be operational by about Sept. 10.
Will be used primarily for infiltration and exfiltration of personnel into
Cuba. Ray also says he has been offered a 210 ft. Corvette, flying a -.., >
Venezuelan flag and owned by Spaniards friendly to JURE. ..Said he could extend
operations along the south coast of Cuba for as much as 2- 3 weeks with --
this vessel. Ray was interested in whether or not KIM flights were to be
»resumed into.Cuba as he is hopeful of returning by legal means which would
not pose as many difficulties as bed Mexican and eee air, travel
conditions. Sutstasie : A a

Ray says he hoped to soon penetrate the Cuban delegation to the U.N.

Said his contact with Ambassador Lechuga, through a woman member of the
JURE, continues, but without significant progress. Lechuga is most -
-friendly towards her but does not wish to discuss any of his Laheaiaane with
her.

Rodriquez recommends continuation of monthly ies 000 payments to Jure and
an additional $15,00 to cover cost of vessels to be acquired.-- total of
$25,000 monthly for 6 months.

4, »Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 2h august 1963 42320282

Ray Mexican visa waiver number 50844 issued 3 Sept 62 valid for six months,
hence now expired. Under circumstances, WAVE not mailing to Ray unless
otherwise instructed.

: 5. Cable to JMWAVE from Director, dtd 24 Aug 63 Cite Dir. 63774 Please

air mail as Ray will need to ae new ae



bt fe : Seef E | Betsy Palmer

Volune X continued

1445.0B43

6. Cable to(San Jose, Caracas, Santo Domingo, Mexico city] IMWAVE
From; Director dated 31 August 63

Ray departing 29 Aug. on trip to first three addees. Attempting renew
Mexican visa waiver for travel there later. Purpose of trip to solicit
political backing, raise funds, tighten JURE organization, streamline
commmication and establish take-off points for operations against target.

ET: Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 7 Sept 63, Ref WAVE 3895+

Reported conversation with Ray's sister-in-law wherein she stated Ray
visited her home on 30 August to say koodby. He was going to be infiltrated
into Cuba and would not see her for some time. Said he was not in accord
with certain U.S. officials on Cuban policy and has no confidence in U.S.
ability to liberate Cuba. Said he had refused two invitations extended

by RFK to discuss Cuban situation.

8. Document transfer and Cross Reference dtd 10°Sept: 63 f UFG-03590 aa |
Ray arrived secretly in Miami from Puerto Rico, had sec: meeting with
Manuel Quiza Docal, IDR of Cubenos Libres, in which Quiza officially
connected his organization to JURE for all action. Later traveled to
N.Y.C. to purchase c-4 explosives.

9. Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 11 Sept 63, report fron[AMravp-2 a]

who spake with Rogelio Cisneros on 6 Sept. Cisneros stated Ray departed

for Costa Rica on 5 Sept to interview President Orlich. Said on Ray's

last meeting with RFD; “the private secretary of President Romulo Betancourt
See was present. Cisneros said JURE objective is to have different prominent
mates figures in Latin American governments witness promises made by U.S. govt.
Cisneros said JURE not obligated to report military or political plans to
“CIA but CIA obligeted to deliver to JURE ell military equipment needed to
fight Castro. : Delivery of equipment will “be On high seas from a CIA boat
to JURE boat which will proceed to Cuba,” i :

~ 10. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 6 Sept 63. Elania Germania (Bernal)
de Paula reported she learned from her brother-in-layy Manuel Ray, that he
hed recently been in Europe negotiating arms purchases in Belgium. Contact
man for purchase ef Col. Ramon Barquin. es Sete

“11." Cable to Director from MEXI dtd 27 sept. 1963

G (ord “2 pproached by Julio Lanier on behalf of Ray and JURE. Want to
‘start military operation against Cuba using Mexico as a base. Lanier says
Ray receiving money from Venezuela, tie is a CIA agent =uban citizen
living in Mexico. [lextcan station |wants to keep him clean of overt exile
activity. :


| Sees eared RET —

Review of Files on Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I - XVIII
April 24, 1978 ~~~

Volume XI_- October 1963 - December 1963

11110844

1. Field Information Report dated 1 October 1963 Notes that source (a
former Cuban diplomat who is a reliable source) said Ray in Tegucigalpa,
Honduras about week or 10 days ago -- had spoken with Foreign Minister
Roberto Perdomo Paredes (has a 201#). A radio station manager says Ray
there about 20 September,

2. Memo for the Record, 2 October 193 from Alfonso Rodriguez

Met with Ray in San Juan Sept. 24-25, 1963. Said Ray departing Puerto Rico.
October 7, 1963 for Venequela and perhaps Mexico. Ray and JURE involved in
infiltrating Cuba and subsequently invading.

« Dispatch 3 October 1963 to Chief, WHD fron(Cs/Panama. On 26 Sept 1963,
cy }learned that Jose Puente Blanco recently met with Ray in Costa
ca for a 3-day meeting. i

4, Draft, dtd 4 October 1963 by Rodriquez
Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero

Ray, unlike many Latain American political leaders, is convinced that
organization and work alone can assure lasting political success. Ray's
philosophy is a way of life. He is a prodigious worker, given to study

of details (training at U. of Utah mentioned) Ray devoting full time to JURE

5. Contact Report 15, dtd 8 October 1963
Contact with MRR member by [CO Warren K. Guertle:
Would like to know what position to take re: Ray i arg picks about U.S.
‘backing. 4-19 ponsiders part of Kremlin conspifacy put someone in
“power in'p. of Castro.f CO has told 4-19 }that MRR are CIA's “chosen
‘people" but if someone in U.S. (maybe Staté Dept) wants Ray, CIA will ‘have
‘to accept him. ... . nee

“26.:>Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dtd 11 Oct 63
“03 DIR Info,[BARR,|MEXI Cite WAVE 5656
-° Persecution o: ‘s Mexico City delegation by local secret police
“sDOL: 26 Sept 63
«Information received from Rogelio Cisneros Diaz. Cisneros advises delegation
to work clandestinely, operate in cells, and not maintain public offices
as they had in the past.



aah Stef tf | Betsy Palmer
Volume XI continued - page 2 414440845
On October 1, Cisneros tells\AMTAUP-1 [that Ray to visit Betancourt later in

week to report on status of negotiations with U.S. and promises made
to Ray by RFK during recent interviews. »

7. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, “the Oct 63

8. Cable 172301Z 17 October 63 to Director from JMWAVE.
On 15 Qctober 1963, Jose (Gomez) Rodriguez, aka Cabeza, JURE member tells

Tacwr, .that CIA officials from Washington, D. C. coming to Miami to

*

sen.

finalize agreements with JURE. Also said JURE would never tell CIA exact
landing sites on Cuban coast.

9.. Cable to Director from Mexico City, 26 October 1963
Secret 260035z
Dir WAVE Cite Mexi 6677
Ref A Mexi 6455 (not sent WAVE) (IN 36021
REF B” HMMA 22285 (also recd 2285)
JURE representative Julio Lanier pressing TI (ol « obtain Mexican
visas for Luis Giun Figueredo and Rogelto Cisneros Diaz who want to inspect
plane of Ref A.

Fast action needed ox L-2(will not be able to meet Cisnero and have an “in"
with JURE group for pi fe of coverage of JURE PM activities Mexi. Lanier
will set up meeting in Miami or San Juan.

10. Dispatch to Chief, Special Affairs _ from CS/JMWAVE, dtd 21 Oct 63
Information received fronf AMTAUP-2

Ray to arrive in Miami 26 July; in secret, because he wanted to hold private

meetings to discuss military affairs with action groups in Miami. Met at

home of Rogelio Cisneros Diaz on 28 July. Met with Armando Alanis Angulo and

asked him to join JURE. Alanis former Chief of Fiscal District of the

Treasury in Camaguey Province. Ray says he has organization inside Cuba

but needs personnel on outside with which to operate. Claimed to have 300

weapons in Miami. :

On 18. August, Cisneros meets. with Alanis and Luis Aguiar (who belongs to
Alanis group). Talked of plans for Aguiar's men to infiltrate Las Villas
Province and open a JURE organization.

Alanis officially joins JURE on 20 August 1963 and received Cisnero assurances
they will get financial help from JURE.

Cable to Chief, Special Affairs Staff from IMYAVE/CS dtd 22 Oct 1963
#6. On 30 September, Ray departed for San Juan from Miami, after having
visited Venezuela, Costa Rica, Honduras and Panama to gain support for
operations against Cuba.

12. Cable 79065 on 29 October 1963.Cwilara R. NevmanWill. arrive San Juan
asiaes. 1963 to r-et Ray in St. Thomas. [i not vlan contact unless need
arises.

~SEGREF


SECRET 9 ety rome

Volume XI - continued - Page 3

14410845

13. Field Information Report dtd-26 October 1963

Ray in Miami 10/26/63 to meet with Ernesto Betancourt, former MRP and now

Washington, D. C. delegate of EL6. May have met in an effort to merge ELC
with JURE. Ray feels need to be in Cuba in 90 days - hurricane Flora has

seriously damaged Cuba and this is an opportume time.

14, Memo for Record from Alfonso Rodriguez
Subject: Meeting with Ray in St. Thomas on 31 October and 1 November 1963
Discussed JURE plans to begin operations inside Cuba by end of December.

15. Cable dtd 16 Nov 1963 to Director from JMWAVE indicates Ray teling meetig
vessel REX within 50 miles of Cuba ~ cargo, 600 lbs. demolitions.

16, Cable dtd 18 November 1963 to JMWAVE from Director confirms understanding
that all dates mentioned in Rules of Engagement this operation are moved up
‘two days. Thus, WAVE will begin operation by caching materials and departing
scene by 1200. on 25 November 1963.

17. Cable dated 3 December 1963 to JMWAVE from Director indicates Ray
involved in infiltration plan, Operation BOLA, and CIA doubts his story
as to why he couldn't complete mission -- said low on gas.

18. Payments to Ray 21 June 1963 - 5 December 1963, totalled $107,925.00
No payments in November.

19. Memo for Record from Alfonso Rodriguez, dtd 13 Dec 1963

Meets with Ray in N.Y.C. 12/6/63. JURE ship failed to pick up materials
deposided on Roncador Cay on 25 November 1963. Ray had no full explanation
for failure. low on gas theory doubtful as ship did arrive a Puerto limon
on 27 November as scheduled. -- Ray doubts this story. Alternate date of
20 December set up, embarking from Puerto Limon, Costa Rica this time.

SECRET


: ' SEGRET Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes I - XVIII

May'1, 1978 111108
Volume XII - January 1964 - February 1964 _ cane

’

1. Intelligence Information Cable, 4 January 1964 - information from
Carlos Hernandez Hernandez, an Executive Member of Brigade 2506 veterans
Association said the Brigade rejected a proposed alliance with JURE on
December 7, 1963. Brigade is apposed to Artime, but more opposed to Ray.

2. Identification provided by CIA for Ray in his attempt to infiltrate

Cuba. Request made 6 January 196) - Ray to use identify of Juan Cardenas
Mendez.

3. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 1964, Dir Cite WAVE 0106

[ivon-8 aid he learned from newspaperman Abelardo (Garcia) Berry that Ray

met’in Paris with Carlos Frangui Mesa to propose that Frangui join
Ray's organization, that is, sector of "Betrayed Revolution". Garcia
believes that in order to obtain Frangui's defection, Ray told him about
alleged plans of U.S. to overthrow Castro in which Ray was to play a
prominent part. Garcia further believes that Franqui's “falling into
disgrace" in Cuba is a trick of Castro and Franqui.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 196) states that Governor Munoz
Marin, Puerto Rico, pledged. to give Ray double any amount Ray raised on a
bond sale by JURE to buy guns. JURE has large quantity of arms in P.R.

under protection of the Governor. :

5. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 14.January 1964. ‘Cisneros said JURE

has military training base in Costa Rica under command of Julio Cesar Alonso,
Military Chief of JURE. All JURE boats now at Costa Rican base and also
arms which had been in Puerto. Rico. Said JURE leaders do not plan +b

to work in Miami area or anywhere else in U.S. because they are afraid

CIA will seize.their. militery.equipment. .. - : 5 7 ss

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 16 Jan 1964 tauy [zYreportea that
Atddddd/Kiddtd/K4éld = Julio Cesar Alonso replacea as Chief of Costa Rican
military base of JURE because of his failure to go on a scheduled operation.
(Check to see if this was the aborted mission of 25 November 1963)

WAVE, dated 30 January 1964. Chxtaup/? reported
Sanchez and Rogelio Cisneros... Cisneros said FBI and
up JURE arms and explosives cached at Cajon de

ld pick cachEup, it was discovered by a fisherman who

RE boat found and searched, but not retained as they

guns overboard. Governor of P.R. called newspapers

ught Castro had cached the arms in order to éxenthrow

id this to sidetrack FBI and INS investagations and

‘Ray's activities would be revealed. (Qisneros

n P.R. and registered in Panama in name of person E

© governor P.R. and bitter enemy of CIA.[Ancaup/e 4

“sR. was trusted by Jure, to which Cisneros. replied

nationalist and enemy of U.S. imperialist politics

ee SIANSE



a SECRET petey Patan

Pade te el eee 41440848

x 6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 31 Jan 64 - Article in Miami Herlad about

the discovery of arms cache in Puerto Rico confirms accuracy of (An vaup/<
reporting that Ray involved in robbery U.S. Military installation and tis’
Governor Marin is misleading FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3
explosive found in cache was provided Ray by WAVE.as directed by Hdgtrs,
but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE will tell loeal FBI that they
know nothing regarding background of cache discovery and assume Hdgtrs will
coordinate case at Wash.D.C. level with FBI.

* 7. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 4 Feb. 1964 - reliable source

says RAY expected in Caracas, Venezuela middle of February 1964 to establish
a guerrilla training base for JURE in venezuela. Will be a regional center
used by JERE members in Venezuela and Panama. (Likely that if Ray succeeds
in setting up camp, it will be with tacit consent of Betancourt government.
Field Comment). Ray claims he will be inside Cuba by 20 May 1964.

8.° Cable to DIR tron Penane City,}dated 9 Feb 1964 states JOSE MARIA PUENTE

BLANCO, Panamanian/Cub&h, DOB 17 July 1930, Havana, Cuba, keft P. City
for Caracas on 8 Feb. He is possible Castro agent Panama City |would
appreciate information re his activities in Caracas ‘or subseyiient travel.

i 9. Memo for the Record, dtd 12 Feb 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez
| Subject: Meeting wif aban /2 on]

ELC, according to Ray, was now disolved and became a part of JURE on 17 Jan.
. 1964. his brings to JURE the best former rebel ermy officers in exile and
ee |. should give JURE a military background and support sew nd to none in the

Ee . exile community-

Comments ;. Gear ie > reports have indicated Cisneros activities and statements
are direc against the CIA. Rodriguez discusses Am saup/2 s}reporting with
Jah Zadeas CE Sforza. Warren Frank. If Cisneros is in. fact directing a program
. f denigration against the CIA, suggest agency follow the activities of
: Dionisio Suarez Esquival, who reportedly has been selected to carry out such
@ progran in various Latin American univerities.

10... Ceble to DIR fron{Fenana city) dated 22 Feb. 1964. The PUENTE BLATICO
brothers have been unfer some suspicion since their arrival infaacy ‘ollowing
their release from Cuban prison as result of intervention of The- King.

‘Part of suspicion is a result of activities of their brother, Jorge, still
in. Cuba. :


Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes I - XVIII

Betsy palmer

May 1, 1978 i
Volume XIII - March 1964 - April 196% 44 440849

1. Memorandum to Acting Chief, Contact Division, dated 6 March 1964
From: Cincinnati R.A.
Thru: Chief, Detroit Office
SUBJECT; Castro Type Subversion Likely /Manuelo Ray Dangerous Exile Leader
E now in Puerto Rico
REFERENCE: CR-64-2 and WH-16¢4

Architect, Nocholas Quintana, residing in Cuba, told the following to a Mr.
Raphael Katzen, consulting engineer in U.S. Manuelo Ray is in Quintana's
opinion more dangerous to U.S. than Castro. Ray is not a Soviet type
Communist according to Quintana, but his socialism is so extreme and his
anti-U.S. feelings so deep that he considers Ray a dangerous exile leader,
at least to the U.S. :

Manuelo Ray is known to be of interest to the local FBI (Cincinnati).

(Check -- se LE net)

2, Memoranjum for the Record, dated 16 March 1964 .
From: [Sidney P. Di Ubeldo
Subject: Contact Report, Meeting with Ernesto Betancourt

Betancourt has known Ray for several years and admired him through all various
seasons of their relationship. Betancourt impressed with Ray's organizational
talents ani telents as an engineer.. Says Ray an effective ani judicious «.
personality end appeals to Cuban exiles of various stripes. Betancourt:
expressed a fear that Ray, in his zeal, might commit himself to such tight,
timing that he would be forced to undertake action at a disadvantageous
moment. : : - Aig EA AAD le 1 SN one eget

ie Ubaldeooments that if Betencourt wes leading him on in an attempt to
sell Ray’ him, it was done with a “subtlety to which I am definitely not
accustomed". . Dyieeenaots TGs

£3. cable to DIR from JMWAVE, ata 17 March 1964.‘ Cisneros sola [avraur/2 a |
that CIA had ordered personnel of[ RAORID, ‘Artime's group) boats to fire on
JURE bogts and therefore Cisneros instructed his crewmen to fire on
Laon oats wherever encountered. CITE WHVE JC4/

Cisneros had meeting at his home on 15 March, attended by Armando Alanis
Angulo, Dunney Perez Alamo, Jose Puente Blanco, National Chief JURE youth
and member of JURE national Executive, and/AM™AUL fe Cisneros related thet
Romulo Betancourt told Ray in Caracas that Betancourt will work in favor of
JURE. Puente confirmed this. Betancourt promised to arrange urgent meeting
with U.S. officials in Washington to get promise from them thet CIA would
not sabotage any of JURE's planned operations.

SECREL.


cen eco RERIREE Fa eet ie

“4 : e
7 SECRET Betsy palmer

Manuel Ray - Volume, XIII

Page 2 441440250

4, Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 28 March 1964 - [aM aur/2 Jspoke with
Blas Enrique Comas Castro, captain of JURE boad VENUS wnich Is in Puerto
Rico. Said.Cisneros and Ray..recently arrived in P.R.: from Caracas.and. said
Venus would be used to infiltrate. Ray into Cuba in a few days.

Caran feats Armando Alanis Angulo said he was leaving Miami on 30 March
for new JURE base within 6 hours of Miami. Said base under responsibility
of Dunney Perez Alamo and himself. Also said Ray had chosen Venus to make
trip to Cuba ani Venus armed with 20MM gun, four 50 Cal and one 30 Cal
machine guns.

5, Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 28 Marbh 1964 -[Av1 /z Jreports that
Alanis, Perez and Antonio Arias Gonzalez, JURE rs, are dissatisfied with
Ray's organization because they had now been forbidden to criticize U.S.
govarnment policies, and the fact that they were allowed to have a training
camp near Miami indicated that Ray is accepting CIA aid. Cisneros claimed
the main objective of JURE was to keep U.S. govt. entertained with the
training base set up in Miami area and that departure of JURE members to
infiltrate Cuba will be outside U.S.

6. Accounting of funds received by Ray, from June 21, 1963 - April 8, 1964,
show a total expenditure of $217,924.28 by CIA.

* {. Memo for the Chief, WH Division, dated 14 April 1964, from Alfonso
Rodreguez - Subject: My Meeting with Ray on 13 April 1964.

Essense of Ray's plans: 1. Two teams expected to eo into Oriente Province
eee this week. i:0/5
2. Ray will turn over JURE contact with us to
Cisneros, : effective < April. 5

Ray's “immediate objective once in Cuba will be ‘to “inttiate Le cael
continuous bombings of strategic ani non-strategic targets. Power plant in
Havana, major refinery and aquaduct in Santa Clara are immediate objectives.

8. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 26 April “196k. [ae " [e}reportea that
JURE training base opened near Tampa,” Flat for ey men and planning to set
up a base in Dominican Republic. ~; a -



SEGRE Betsy Palmer

File Review, Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII

eae cae = May 1964 44140851

» Cancale in San Juan, P.R., 2-5 May 1964
ibject: Ray's Plans
Submitted byfhenn 1. HeLksher? wH/sa/so/Hn

Ray's plans to infiltrate Cuba by 20 May were discussed at meeting. Questions
about Ray's financing of Puerto Rican conference and ability to store
ami engage in training activities,on U.S,,soil were raised by, fAMYOM/' MRR )
Hember ).. He volunteered to tell| ockahur here arms could be Tound be
Reckshei "quickly dissuaded from 4: ing further details" at which

int} AMYUM 1g}coumented that{GUERTLER had reacted in a similar way when
offe: facts and figures abo Ray's activities. Artime stated he would
not put it past Ray to go into hiding in a secure place while pretending
to be in Cuba.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, 7 May 1964 - After looking at[AvTsUP{ material,
it is obvious mich of conspiratorial talk in JURE is for internal consumption

- only, the purpose being to protect myth that JURE is independent as basically
hostile to CIA. In a desire to obtain proof of any anti-CIA or U.S, govt.
activity by Ray, urge every effort to check accuracy of LAMTAUH / AMOT/reporting
and follow through for any overt manifestations of many aiiegations made.

3. .Memo for the Director of Central Intelligence, from Richard Helsn,
D/P, dated 13 May 1964. Subject: Plans of Manuel Ray and the JURE to
Infiltrate into Cuba.

Helms says there is no question but that Ray seriously plans to enter-Cuba
sometime in May 1964. JURE has 6 teams ready to infiltrate -- a total of
27. men." Ray hopes with aid of 40 men, he can demonstrate that resistance
cee posetble and that Castro can be defied.

4, “Cable to DIR from JMBAVE, , dtd 20 May 1964, Anirew St. George, on
assignment with Time-Life, left Miami 18 May with JURE elements for
: Beet! a Ray.

Memo 3 ‘or the Record dtd 20 May 1964, from Samuel Halpern
Yoject: “JURE Purchase of Arms

c * Chronological resume of reports reaching wH/SA desk regarding attempted
‘purchase of szms by JURE in El Monte, California.

A. “Revenue officials queried CIA re its knowledge of certain
arms being handled by Juan Erquiaga Aizcorbe in L.A. area

for shipment to Florida. ‘SA denied knowledge.
Discussion about 20 May ashi!

SEERET


Betsy palmer

116852.
Manuel Ray - Volume XIV 143% 8
Page 2

B. Rogelio Cisneros calls Rodriguez (#¢{p¢/X7) on 20 May to advise
him certain arms being manufactured to JURE specifications’
in El Monte and being investigated by U.S. Treasury. Cisneros
says JURE has invested $50,000 in these weapons being manu-
factured bu Knuson (sic) Manufacturing Co.

C. Rodriguez (th¢/Vldd/4ihdd) tells Cisneros this is pretty sad
situation that JURE mst make use of Costa Rican, Venezuelan
and other L.A. connections or they were going to get “clobbered"
in U.S.

Be. Halpern and Rodrigaez advised Mr. FitzGerald of the above. He

: agreed agency could not assist JURE in this matter. On 20
May, Mr. Bowdler of St. Dept. notified of the matter, and
Deputy Chief, WH/SA advised.

"EB. Joseph O'Neill of OGC called on 20 May and informed that JURE
was involved but agency did not want Revenue called off its
investigation because of the "autonomous" nature of our
relationship wity JURE.

Go. Cable to DIR from JMJAVE, dtd 22 May 1964. Sender states that the
manner of Tad Szulc in an office visit on May 21 and new confident tone
expressed by Cisneros conveyed feeling to cable sender that Ray has made it
into Cuba.

7. Cable IMWAVE from DIR, dated 23 May 1964. Reques’ Reuteman pavise
Cancarzon/1. that he has checked with hdqtrs and that Ray not receiving
CIA-s' rt. Reuteman }should trace history of intimate relationship of
‘AMCAPE/1 with) noting that since Bay of Pigs [ ancaPE/U}has been serving,
n effect, as.a public relations man and lobbyist for Ray. Further explain
to JAMCARBON/1 fthat [AMCAPE/1}must be credited with single-handedly plecing
énttré‘Ciban natiomon alert» and causing withdrawal. of masses of conscripted
workers from cane fields merely by articles playing on theme of threat of
infiltration of Ray and a fewmen. Tell CARBON/L) that CIA would not
become party to Ray operation knowing cld%e relationship with(AMCaPE/1,]
particularly since latter well known to be less than friendly CIA.

&, ‘Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 26 May 1964. Cisneros says that
as of 23 May 1964, no contact has been established with Ray but Cisneros
believes he has reached Cuba.

9. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 28 May 1964 - Cisneros says Ray has
not as yet been able to infiltrate Cuba ani will make dfdfHd/ attempt night
of 28 May 1964. Cisneros says vigilance by U.S. authorities over activities
of cURZ reps. in Florida making support of Ray's effort extremely difficult.

SECRET


*

Volume XV _- June 1964

SECRET

File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978

Betsy Palmer

1141410853

2

1 Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 30 May 1964 - information from
Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered Cuba. Boat
to be used in final infiltration developed motor trouble. JURE reps were
taking all out effort to go to Ray's aid with replacement for boat and an
additional supply of drinking water. 4

2. Cable to SMWAVE from DIR, dated 2 June 1961, Ref: WAVE 7218 (in 95616)*
Please note similarities rumor reported Ref Para 2 and statement attributed
to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed AMWORLD boats to fire on JURE
boats per WAVE 3691 (IN 41477). Is this significant?

* Artime's followers authorized to attack any of Ray's or Gutierrez's men
on high seas.

2. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dated 3 June 1964 j stating that Ray and Andrew
St. George were among the individuals arrested by the British near Cayo Largo.
(Location of Anguilla Cay also used in cable). Detainees taken to Nassau.
Tom Dunkan, Life photographer, also in group.

3. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 4 June 1964 - amTAUP/2 reported that Ray's
organization going to make press statement that Ray's failure to enter
Cuba was fault of CIA.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dtd 6 June 1964 reflects feelings of Cuban
exile community over Ray's failure to enter Cuba.

@. Ray made a fool of himself by taking a girl and two non-Cuban
newsmen with him, none of whome adapted to rigors of guerrilla
warfare.

b.- British and U.S. participated in Ray's capture

c. Whole thing was a publicity stunt which went wrong.

-.c@. Ynrique Huertas: jubilant over Ray'sdisgrace, but feels it is
a loss of exile prestige and harbingers bleak and hpppless period

e. Dr. Antonio Maceo says many have lost faith in Ray for lack of
accomplishment this past year.

f. Ray is laughing stock. Those who had hopes now feel he is
only an ambitious politican not will to keep promises.

&. JURE members confused and undecided over how to defend Ray.
Alanis and Zarrage wish to remove their followers from JURE.

h. Cisneros states to AMTAUP that Ray will accuse U.S. govt of
treachery for cutting off economic aid one month ago and for
searching his home, automobile and offices (Cisnero's? )(Photostats
in volume xIv)


SECRET
41410854

Betsy palmer

Volume XV - June 1964
Page 2

5. Memo for the Record, dtd 9 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodreguez c
Subject: Possible Plans of Ray

Opinion of Rodriguez that Ray will attempt asap to mount another partes
effort. He is relatively certain JURE has or can procure a small cr

capable of making trip from Florida to Cuba. He also thinks that Hinds
dened /d¥ Ray "youl be willing to publicly give the lie to the TIME
magazine article of 12 June 1964.

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 10 June 1964 - re-canvassing of exile
commnity reveals Ray's prestige at near-absolute low point. ‘Trend is
tendency to ignore Ray completely. Information that JURE in considerable
dissension. Threats of various factions to withdraw unless Cisneros dismissed
and national board reorganized.

7. Memo for Record, dtd 12 June 1964 from Samuel Halpern

Subject: Information from the British in Answer to Questions Re;
Identify of American Who Allegedly Paid Manuel Ray's fine in
Nassau.

query as = = ie eco ts of American who allegedly paid Ray's fine in Nassau.
(see TIME of 12 June 1964, page 48 -- alleged CIA paid). Governor stated
he had seen no such figure and to edge, there was no such
person. "I of course did not tel} that we knew the identity
of the American as reported to us Db:

8. Memo for Record, dtd 12 June 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez
Subject; JURE telegram to TIME Magazine

Protest falsity of information published by TIME re: capture of Manuel Ray
and his group. False that a CIA ship participated in any phase of operation.
Also false that a CIA individual paid fine -- the $84.00 was sent to JURE

by an American citizen at request of one of his employees.

9. Gable to DIR from JMUAYE, ata 27 June 1964: According to(mmast/6,_)

Ray informed Pepe Catillo (Jose Garcia Valdez) their departuré*date for Cuba
would be July 1. Boat to de used is unnamed Rybovitch rented in Ft. Lauderiale.
Ray planning to stay in Cuba about 15 days. ae

Subject: Establishment of Base Abroad; Manuel Ray Rivero

* 10. Memo for Record, dtd 29 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez

On June 22, the Special Group agreed "no monies would be forthcoming,
specifically ea requested $25,000, until he ceased” all act: es from U.S.
mainland.

SECRET 7


SECRET

Betsy palmer

“File Review - Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes T - XVIIT
ee UL
Volume XVI - July 1, 1964 - August 28, 1964 ibaa
1. Draft on Manuel Ray by Alfonso Rodriguez dtd 6 July 1964

After his failure to reach Cuba during May 1964, Ray believes he mst go
into Cuba as soon as possible. Within JURE, according to Ray, his detention
by the British is viewed as an unfortunate incident. Ray said some JURE
members considering demonstrations before British embassies ani consulates.

2. Memo for the Record dtd 7 July 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez
Subject: Tad Szule Relationship with Manuel Ray

Rodriguez questioned Ray's ‘using newspaper correspondents as emissaries to
departments of the U.S. govt. Ray stated that Szulc took it upon himself
to speak about matters related to assisting Ray. Rdédriguez says it would
be wrong to assume that Ray is controlled by Szulc but Ray “undoubtedly
mows that Szulc has worked hard, first with President Kennedy and now, for
him and his interest. This cannot but influence Ray."

2.

organization concerning Cisneros. Dr. Raul Chibas Ribas stated that if
Cisneros not removed from his position, Chibas would make public his
resignation.

3. Memorandum for Director of Central Intelligence, dtd 9 July 1964
From: D&mond FitzGerald, Chief/WH Division
Subject: Chronology of Concept of Autonomous Operations and
Summary of Financial Support to Manuel Artime

Attachment A is listing of origin, briefings, discussions, and approvals by
appropriate policy levels of the concept of autonomous operations and
specifically support to Artime. Chron clearly shows that from the very
beginning the problems inherent in autonomous operations were clearly
stated at all times by the Agency and that appropriate policy levels were
kept fully and regularly informed of the status of autonomous operations.

Attachment B contains summary and breakdown of financial support for Artime, _
Summary states that, "From June 1963 through 30 June 1964 the Agency spent
$4,933,293 in support of the Artime operation." Fixed monthly subsidy is
$225,000.

SECRET a


See SEGRE T Betsy palmer

Volume XVI = continued 11410856
page 2

Origin of Autonomous Operations

Integrated Covert Action Program for Cuba, approved by Higher Authority
in June 1963, provided for "support of autonomous anti-Castro Cuban groups
to supplement and assist in the execution" of other courses of action.
Concept was first voiced in Sept. 1962 in Welter Rostow's proposal for a
"track Two" approach to Cuban operations. Parallel to regular CIA-
controlled Cuban teams, CIA woikld extend financial aid and some advice and
guidance to independent and uncontrolled Cuban leaders such as Manuel Ray.

Rules of Engagement incorporated into June 1963 program.

1. "It is the keystone of autonomous operations that they will be
executed exclusively by Cuban nationals motivated by the conviction that the
overthrow of the Castro/Commmnist regime must be accomplished by Cubans,
both inside and outside Cuba acting in consonance.

2. The effort will probably cost many Cuban lives. If this cost
in lives becomes unacceptable to the U.S. conscience, autonomous operations
can be effectively halted by the withdrawal of U.S. support; but once halted,
they cannot be resumed.

3. All autonomous operations will be mounted outside the territory
of the United States.

4. The United States Government must be prepared to deny publicly
any participation in these acts no matter how loud or even how accurate may
be the reports of Ui S. complicity.

5. The United States presence and direct participation in the
operation would be kept to an absolute minimm. Before entering into an
operational relationship with a group, the U.S. representative will make it
clear that his Government has no intention of intervening militarily, except
to counter intervention by the Soviets. An experienced CIA officer would be
assigned to work with the group ina liaisoncapacity. -He would provide ~
general advice as requested as well as funds and necessary materiel support.
‘He may’ be expected: to influence ‘but not. control the conduct of operations.

6. These operations would not be undertaken within a fixed time
schedule." : i
‘h. “Article from New York Times, Wednesday, July 15, 1964, bylined Tad Szulc
"Ray Said To Leave For Cuba Landing - Castro Foe, Balked in May, Reported
on Way, Again."

5. Cable to DIR frou IMBARRJdta 15 Jul 1964. M/V True with Manolo Ray
and crew returned Key West area --- had motor trouble. 5

6. \ Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 18 July 1964. Ray's latest misadventures
trying get into Cuba mid-July greeted with relative indifference majority
Cuban exiles Miami area.

ET. Wireservice prinout - Miami, Flay, July 24, 1964. Three exile groups

withdrew from Ray's JURE today protesting that Ray failed to make good
his promise to enter Cuba to reactivate the anti-Castro underground.

: Spokesman was Jesus Dieguez of the Revolutionary National Assembly.

SEGRE


SECRET”

“ot Betsy Palmer

Review of Files - Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I -_ XVIII

yee HUIL_- september 196 ~ February 1965 11410857

1. Memo dtd 1 Sept 1964, subject: Coamaur-2 broauct!on
"Chief of Reports Comments: It would appear thet[AMTAUP2? * reporting on
JURE matters have been generally reliable."

2. Autonomous, Operations - Operating Plan

Activity:( AMBANG: “]

For the PeMod: 1 October - 31 December 1964. ‘Total of $75,000 paid
to effect move of JURE activities from U.S. territory and as a final payment
to JURE.

3. ‘Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 9 Sept 1964 :
Source: Jose Garcia Valdez, aka “Pepe Gatillo"
Subject: Plans of JURE leader Manuel Ray Rivero to depart Miami for an
Undisclosed Location.

Ray. asked Garcia on 9 Sept 64 to take him, St. George and Mirta Borras on
trip to unspecified destination. To depart on JURE catamaran.

4. Memo for the Record, dtd 11 Sept 1964 from Alfonso Rodreguez

On Aug 24, 1964, Rogelio Cisneros called to report his resignation from JURE.
Stated Ray incapable of directing both political ani military activities.
Cisneros thinks Raul Chibas will soon also resign. Cisneros said Ray not
prepared for ill-fated May attempt into Cuba ani Cisneros thinks Ray had
believed he could arrange for CIA to take him into Cuba. "Ray is politically
urfformed --- politically that which he last read". Cisneros further stated

that he believed Ray had planned his entire return-to-Cuba angle with President’

Kennedy and the presidential elections of November 1964 in mind. According to
him, “Ray:planned to make JURE and Ray outstanding ; liberal and democractic
exile group with the thought that prior to the 1964 elections, Mr. Kennedy
would have to do something about Cuba. With Kennedy's death, according to
Cisneros, all of Ray's plans went awry. Rodriguez expresses to Cisneros

that this seems like a far-fetched possibility ani Cisneros admits he got
idea out of thin air, but said theory widely held within Directorate of JURE.

5. Memo for the Record - draft - dtd 22 Sept 1964 - Alfonso Rodriguez
Conclusions . "I recommend we give Ray what he asks and close the JURE books
for good. If Ray is succesful in Cuba he will not need our help, if he is
not, our help won't do much good.

“He is honest ani at least the money will largely be spent for the
purpose he wants to achief. °

"Whatever Ray may ever say, he was treated the way he asked to be
treated. We have played the game in a manner beyond reproach."

SECRET—


SECRET

Volume XVII - continued 11110853

Betsy palmer

7 sa] REF: DIR-63886

aye
Please pass to Ass Mann from Ambassador Telles: “I saw President

Orlich and Minister Quiros Sasso on 18 November and conveyed reference position.
The President was visibly shaken to learn that US government was not in-

volved in this arms shipment. After some discussion with Minister Quiros,
President Orlich requested that we not issue license for (AMBANG-1]shipment.
President Orlich made clear he would be happy at any time to undertake

action such as this if US government wanted him to. While he does wish

see Cuba free he inclined to agree with US position Re Hit and Run raids
undertaken principally for publicity sake. President Orlich's decision

based on (1) relaization that he would not be doing us a favor and, (2)

further realization that CRG would be hard pressed to explain such a

$70,000 purchase of arms if it became a campaign issue in 1965."

SECRET Pa


File Review Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I ~ XVIII

Volume XVIII - March 1965 ----------- 11410859
Hag 2) O70 sede eae een eeernaac na

1. Memo dtd 18 November 1965 to: United States Secret Service
From: Deputy Director for Plans
Subject: Ray, Rivero, Manuel Antonio aka; Ray, Manolo

In response to a telephonic request of 15 Nov. 1966 for a name trace

on Ray. CIA files contain voluminous information fram sources of
varying reliability re: Ray who is well known to Intelligence Commnity
as a prominent anti-Castro Cuban exile leader ani head of JURE. If par-
ticular info is desired, please specify.

2. Memo dtd 6 Dec 1965 to Secret Service from DD/P gives 2 1/2 page
standard bio information on Ray.

3. Memo dtd.15 Dec 1965 to Commissioner, INS from DD/P

Subject: Roige Cerezo, Jose

(4 12 399 923 1c)

According to CIA files, information dtd Aug 1963 from a Cuban emigree source,
Roige was designated chief of intelligence by National Direction Abroad of
JURE. Source said intelligence group created in March 1963 on orders of
Manuel Ray for purpose of infiltrating JURE members into various organizations
which operated in Miami area, as well as into agencies of U.S. govt. Further,
that in April 1963, Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a JURE member into CIA
in order to learn details of plans regarding Cuba. JURE also intended to
drop leaflets into Cuba of a derogatory nature regarding U.S. govt. In-
cluded in these leaflets was Subject's manifesto against the U.S. ante and
against this Agency.

4, itr. dtd June 2, 1966 from Dr. Julian Gallo to Harry (Mahoney?)

Gallo is contact with Ray in Puerto Rico and trying to discover the names
~-Of Ray's contacts in Cuba. Ray, apparently is seeking a Mexican visa from
Gallo and unhappy that it did not come through. Refused to reveal names
or addresses to Gallo and would not give information about where his radio

broadcast tapes were to be sent for transmission into Cuba.

5. Memo for the Record, dtd 21 June 1966 from Charles Anderson
Met with Ray on 28 April 1966. Anderson said in general Ray had less
information on the "purge situation that I did. Ray said relatives
of Gustavo Arcos in P.R. had telephone contact with Arcos family in Cuba,
about 25 April and that Arcos still in prison but charges against him
were thin. "( This means there was at least one more telephone call than
we knew of previously, and this has probably served to increase the pressure
on Arcos)." Anderson tells of his concern and strong interest in Arcos on
the chance that Ray might assume Arcos had been CIA agent. Doesn't know
if Ray will construe remark this way but it seemed like an opening “to use
an important exile channel as a possible deception mechanism."

- "I believe that later in the summer it might be a good idea to have
another talk with[AMBaNG to keep up with exile thinking, and feeding more

deception thoughts."


SECRET Betsy palmer

Volume XVIII continued

Page 2 11140860

6. Intelligence Information Cable, dta 28 June 1966
Source; Qualified American Observer

On ,15 June. 1966, Rafael Garcia-Bango, Cuban exile in Spain, received call in
Madrid from Ray in P.R. regarding Ray's plans to assume power in Cuba.
Garcia-Bango told Ray it was essential he come Madrdd before 25 June

and return to San Juan in order to talk to a member of Cuban delegation for
10th Caribbean and CenAm games in P.R., prior to return of delegation to Cuba.
Ray agreed to do so.

Ray enthusiastic over possibility of overthrowing Castro in next several
months. Knows Garcia-Bango has bad reputation but feels he could prove
useful. Also useful would be Garcia-Bango's brother, Jorge Garcia-Bango
Dirube, who has more respectable reputation. Ray also state that he had
received indirectly a message from Jose Llanusa Gobel and c onsiders him
a potential ally.

7. Harry Mahoney debriefs Ray, described in Memo for the Record dtd
8 july 1966. Mentions Julian Gallo at this time and Ray indicates he
Imows and respects him.

8. Memo No. 771, 1 Sept 1966 for: Chief, OPS Cuba/WH Division/DDP
Attn: Mr. Harry Mahoney, Subject: MIG-21. Attaching communication
from DIA authorizing $100,000 should MIG-21 operation_succeed. Funds
to come from Air Force escrow fundf{now held by CIA.

(Note: Other memos refer to MIG which Ray said he knew a Cuban pilot
would fly out of Cuba. Ray never comes through with any information
that is usable, and finally says he cannot contact pilot)

* 9. Cable dtd 4 Jan 69 CITE WH/Miami 2233

\Oi
Cinotfreports ‘on 9 Aug 68 indicating Ray plans to dissolve JURE and hold a
‘congress of Cuban exiles in 1969 to create a new organization to fight
Castro. Ray working with Haitian groups and hopes, if new invasion of
Haiti successful, he will be granted operational bases and radio stavion

in Haiti.

10. Memo dtd Feb. 8, 1971 to Director, FBI from DD/P indicates that CIA
has no current operational interest in Manuel Ray Kivero.

SECRET —_


SECRET Betsy Palmer
April 5, 1978

Review of Manuel Rey Rivero files 11410861
Assortment of documents not in files at time review began on 3/29/78

e 1966 Dispatch to Chief, WH, From Chief of Station;
Psubject: Haitian Exile Activities in the Domini

lepublic.

provided information on Haitian exile activities. On May 30,
FTYiwas Taina to a meating Jy Godefrey Moscoso at the Hotel

* with

EMHEFTY, s taken to meeting by Gerard Max Lafontant, a@ Haitian Commnist

K Meeting, Lafontant told Moscoso that Manolo Rey had obtained
explosives for him to use in the first invasion against Hait& and that

Rey was now living in the Dominican Republic. Lafontant described Rey

as a former collaborator of Fidel Castro, but was not now on sePaking

terms with Castro. He said the Commmnist-oriented ith of

June heent, but Movement had on one occasion accused Rey of being a CIA

nt, but this was not true. Rey can obtain explosives within
hours after the request is made.

2. Cable to Director from Hunt, August 25, 1960 states that Carrillo advised
that FRD should keep an eye on new anti-Castro group being formed ‘by Raul
Chibas and Manuel Ray, Marcel Fernandez, Julio Durate ani Jose Pepin

Bosch. Chibas told Carrillo that Miro would follow Chibas line which

would be neither join nor fight FRD but help if necessary. Bosch

financing Chibas and Miro with initial credit. Results negative when
Carillo invited new group to join FRD. Carrillo feels if new group

succeeds, it will try to draw in Feliue ‘Pazos and Ramon Barquin.

(Note date of cable)

3. Dispatch to Deputy Chief, w/' SA from Chief of Station, JMWAVE

dated 14 april 1964 in Mexico, D. F. lengthy and very rambling

letter which, among many other things, states the story about Manuel

Ray being closely associated with ALBIZU CAMPOS and friendly with

Puerto Ricans who were working on the rennovation of the White House

and the group that tried to assassingte Truman. (Pencilled notation

of A. Rodriguez -- "who is|AMSHOT/12_]coula he be agent provacateur?

What is his, accesg? Can we take seriously? ) Although postmarked

in Mexico, AMSHOT, apparently still in Cubalttt Not a Cuban citizen - wife
in U.S. ‘Trying to get a Mexicen Visa.

h, Cable 21 May 1964 or information report.

On 21 May 1964, unidentified members of JURE stated that mee
Manuel Ray Rivero entered Cuba successfully on 17 May 1964

and is still there. He departed from an unidentified embarcation point
near Cuba at 3 am on 17 May and reached his destination by 10 am that day.
Ray was accompanied by a labor leader believed to be JOSE COMEZ RODRIGUEZ
aor 22 year old man who was to serve as Ray's commmications clerk and
guide.

SECRET

ad


af
1 we +
lett SECRET petey Palner
Miscellaneous documents not in files

Page 2 11110862

5. Field Information Report on Cuba
Subject: Lecture of Manuel Ray Rivero to Member of JURE's
Delegation from Tampa, Orlando, and Miami, Florida
Date: 26 May 1965
Source: A young Cuban exile trained in information collection.

Ray gaue opening lecture to 25-30 JURE delegates gathered in Miami on

22 May 1965. Ray claims JURE has men and equipment to win war of liberation
in Cuba and reiterates that only an internal revolution will overthrow
Castro. Said some arms had been left on a military base in the Dominican
Republic and that, regardless of who takes over in the DR, the arms will

be returned to JURE. Made an appeal for money so that organization would
purchase the M/V VENUS, a 110-foot vessel registered in Panama. (Previous
reporting on JURE's base and equipment in DR contained in the following:
TDCSDB-315/00539-65, 16 Feb 65; TDCSDB-315/00301-65, 38 Jan 65;
TDCSDB-315/00383-65, 27 Jan 65; and TDCSDB-315/00269-65, 28 Jan 65.

* 6. Field Information Report on Cuba
Subject: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the
Central Intelligence Agency
Date: 30 April 1963
Source: Former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine movements
Appraisal of Content: 3

On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros, JURE Exec. Bd. member, said a meeting
held in his home and Antonio Arias, propaganda chief in Miami, in attendance.
Cpsneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate

SRE a trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with
regard to Cuba and if possible to infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros
said it might be possible to use contacts of George Volsky (sp?) who had
CIA contacts. In regard to future propaganda, JURE plans to introduce
thousands of anti-American phamphlets into Cuba, including Ray's manifesto
against the U.S. government and the CIA.

sk T+ Report on Cuba/Dominican Republic
Subject: Urgent plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Enter Cube
Involvement of Ray with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and Haiti
Date: 18 Septemher 1964
Source: [ 7 2c selcie wen -j part of group of Cubam emigres trained
an techniques of information collection.

Andrew St. George said Ray is attempting to drop himself into Cuba, regardless
of risk, to regain his political prestige. Ray feels he cannot now compete

with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, military leader of SNFE, and other revolutionaty
organizations, unless he enters Cuba. He wants to have same influence of

others when Haiti leadership starts distributing bases to Cuban exiles and
providing them help for their aid in overthowing Francois Duvalier (a trade off).
According to St. George, the Haiti combine is composed of Gutierrez,

Antonio Cuesta del Valle of Commandos L, and DRE members. Also, Rolando
Masferrer Rojas on the inside of Haiti operations and has the most influence
among the Haitians.



ae SECRET etsy patmer

Miscellaneous documents n&“in files

Page 3 11410863

8. Information Report - Cuba/Dominican Republic
Subject: Purchase of a Boston Whaler for Manuel Ray Rivero,
Leader of the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)
Date: 18 September 1964
Source: Naturalized American citizen - formerly in shipping business
in Cuba, well-trained and experienced debriefer

On 14 Sept 1964, o Miami yacht builder firm purchased a 13-foot six inch
Boston whaler for Ray. Purchaser, Angel Aixala Pertierra said he planned
to go to Santo Domingo to get permission to operate the whaler in Dominican
waters, and once this had been granted, would deliver the boat to Ray.

It was on Aixala's Catamaran ct 1208 D, that Ray made his ill-fated initial
attempt to enter Cuba. Aixala is not a member of JURE.

K 9. Classified Message to Director, troufperis
Date: 8 June 1963

Ray and Emio Guede arrived in Paris and Ray contacted by Nauman on 7 June.
Reviewed plan for Frangui recruitment in place. Urged Ray to take
immediate action before his presence in «Paris was leaked. ,Guede tries
to contact Franqui by phone and on all occasions, phone answered by Biith
Sorel or her roomate, Helene Pulish (phonetic). Guede leaves message wach
time and on last call told Frangqui going to Brussels and may have already
left. Ou 7 June Guede sees Franqui at the opening of his exhibition and
talks to him. Franqui listened to him, but made no responses to his
veiled overatures. Guede surmizes Franqui not interested -- thinks he is
incapable of defending regime but not willing or capable of breaking with
it. Grovery and JERVAY met Ray. Feel this important re possible future
use Ray Europe. Pari support excellent. (c/ ‘S comment: HQS has reason
believe no obstacle convincing Ray push for Franqui return for period to be
eyes and ears anti-Castro conspiracy. )

4% 10. Cable Report to Director, troufreris ]
Date: 14 June 1963

Ray and party travel to Hpssels on 11 June, and Ray continues his efforts
to recruit an agent in place for CIA. contacts Guillamo Cabrera and
‘surmised Cabrera held back from a bréak due to his concern for a brother
inside who is ill. Ray asks Cabrera to arrange a meeting with Gustave Arcos
but Cabrera unable_to do so since arcos{¢df¢#f leaving for a few days.
extends his trip. Ccontacts Nauman who tells Ray it is not possible to
‘resolve all the personal problems of those he has contacted and Ray mist
show them the wisdom and practicality of working in place as a means of
eliminating the regime. Ray willing to settle for defection as he believes
this haé an impact on the regime. Report states that Ray extremely active,
moves fast and purposefully, and has given impression of frank cooperation.
Has volunteered to assign a man to be station contact, but foets(e FUMBLE 2
is too young but should be aware of whomever is designated.

SEGREL


E A wo SECRE T Betsy Palmer

Miscellaneous documents not in files

P age I 14310864
xu. Information Cable to Director from JMWAVE

Date: 5 November 1963 i

Subject: Unification Activities by Manuel Ray Rivero, 23 Oct 1963

Source: A trained observer with access to wide variety of Cuban exiles.
Source is known to mst of his contacts as a channel to U.S.
intelligence. Obtained information from Reinaldo Pico Ramon,
officer in the Alianza de Trabajadores Cubanos (ATC, Alliance
of Cuban Workers).

Pico was told by an unidentified informant, who is probably on the JURE
National Executive, that Luis Manuel Rodriguez, a former rebel army
lieutenant from Santioago de Cuba, and.who was known as “Mama Dolores"
while a member of Brigade 2506, is serving as a Ray agent at Fort Benning,
Georgia. Individuals who are working with Rodriguez are SILAS CUERVO

CASTILLO and WIS CLEMENTE BARCENA SERRANO, both former members of
Brigade 2506.

