# 180-10142-10385

## Page 1

180-10142-10385

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA HAS MO OBJER SION TO

DECLASSIFIC

RELEASE

EVANDOR. THIS COPY IS NOT

THIS DOCUMENT

FOR RELEASE.

Welcott Allegation

M/1178

The HIS CA wetigated the allegation of forer CIA employee

Tane telect who claimed that shortly aft the dececiatin of

Pendent Kennedy, Kilott was adored by fellow employees at the SIAS

Its tie ery done it can get it ded wired

fineral disrusements unde as aligned utm:

Inves bilett fust advised the HSCA of this allegation during an

wide: 116:

the lomete i can an armor es lies?

:/2.2/11

explacned that the had been imployed by the CIA as a finance affece fron

He served as a fiel aunt actat se the Support Staff at he lyng is.

Welcott adoused that, In adation to his regular responsebelties there, che shad

1 seved stenty at

of Janice Wiicell, 3120(15, p. 15-29.7

letimony

RETURN TO CIA

this itined you put din is codet wit life We i said?

Background Use Only

Do Not Roses sould come by the affece and engage a mere

used Slail Intere

Mie, Mes regardene )

• 1/25/78, p. 5,76k4

---

## Page 2

Welet told the HSCA that on the day after Predent Kennedy's assaddene-

thon, he wad informed by a CIA Care Iffice that Yee Hanry OsWald Md a

cA agent inter, i pen Kilot futher adried that de was.

unformed that Oswald had been arrigned a cryptonyn and that Slat himself

had destured payments for swalds project using that eyptonym. (Tid 19)

Although Kilest was nable to identify the specific case offices who chad

insteally urned him of Ostralds Agency wiltinkip, he named sued

empere of te the penth

show he belleved he had subrequenty

deceased the allegations. (Tid., -D.)

Kicket advised the lometre dung his interwe that after learning of

the alleged Oswald connection to the SIA, he chad ner mchecked

Sation steament wends or doidence that sall priest we die.

I Add Insert on nest page]

He explaceed that this was cecause, at that pout in time, the mewed

o the formation as ineve shop tolk and gave it little wedeace

ISCA Staft Delu

or Tames Wilcoll, 1/28/7

p. 44, Tilde d4416

Nethe did he seport the allegations to aay formal ivretigatir todies

following the acacuation he de ridend the formation to the leaway

---

## Page 3

* Insert on previous page.

have casally served his persial advance bosk to see if aay

money shad beer distibated to swald, le nevei ccked the Agency's.

---

## Page 4

Whied would not serve to futher ay vetegative prepres This is

In as atterpet to acetain the tut regarding slots allegatihis

incering thee thenry tswald's relationship with the LIA, the ASCA ide

rewed several preseat and Sume CIA employees' Who were selected on

the this of the prettion walk weld with the CIA deling the yeals 1959-1969.

Among those pens attrewed ture indurduals who tep beltes

13

coved a bond speetun of mere with in

Не скуб.

ding thes

peed, welding the keep and seputy bef of station as well as offles

in france, sigutry, the souet Brakek did costrilligence.

iti

pilets. +.1110717-0118

N. LEap)

Te interies were degred to deit aformation legalding the following

are of cola: I) it the please were se say wattes downetstics wkieh

undate that Yee Hany O swold was as Wallace agent or a stuce

Set ither of there categies? 3) hid the peter er bures ou participate

---

## Page 5

in any cavration in which allegations were made that He Havey Old

Was a CIA agent t as intellegael soule for ay government sevree? I Nes

the pees in a postion in which che or she ould have canes if twald chad

ленинок ifikes or her

the the press intel arese of the allegation that Oswald may have

тати siatt While stationed

been a LIA agent? 6) hid the pewsr know the s herat

/Ibi p: 1110 915-0719).

In summary, the tsults of the interwews well as follow O?

He cher of implement in a try sit

none of the induleduals

questeraed had ever seln any downests or beard day information indeca

"(Ibid, p. 1110719).

ting that to Havry Is Would Wre a CIt aged this allegative was not kelon

to mayone natel the time of publication of Karles Commisson entical Istratie

"(Tbid.)

M untel the Hamion investigation is the late 19603. Some of the indurduals

including the thif of Counterkellegence with the soviet Russe Brack in

---

## Page 6

expussed the delef that it was porcel that tee Hewey oslould lad ther

meeted by a K68 dirag his military toe of dety in taper is ta CIA;

Joys Station had icatified a K6S program ined at reicting l. S sitary

penel i tag deing this price fire tine the. (hit.)

As telligence andyet when till had speefcally anned as havrag

when carsived is craversation Megaiding the OsWeld -LIA agent allegatio

favorang the accorsenation told the HSCA that de was not is

Ebad p. 1241S: HSCA sautive Seesion Testiming of Jogins Wilet, 3/2/78, 1)

I the d FR accascination. a surew of

his office of turnnel file indueater that he wire, La fact, transfered from

R>

Almost all those pelsons interwed who worked in the Soviet Peased Biase

stated that they would have beer if tee Havry Dsold had, is fact,

seen wested in a CIM agent wher he Was in Japan, As they were in pose.

woes letter to lave handled him in at last to have had kaneledge

---

## Page 7

of the secrettreat. (Used Stre Summary el Toleranas ed Cle mplese, ClA

P. M6114, 4.1509%.

There peons expressed the speacon that had O swald teen recsueted

wethout thei knowledge, it would have then a rare exception contrary

to the working polly and guidelines t

Allendem 90723/19- Wall indictes that

Chief of Station (or)

was indicated that he

what would here bes hit shilos

an agent.

---

