# 180-10144-10115

## Page 1

180-10144-10115₽

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Classification:

SECRET

-(This-form is. to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

Vot: 4 of 4 I January 1941 -

Betay hisl

6 Посати 1478

201-749651

(Cable)

080750Z LTA 202417

To: FBI.

Subject: TOMCAT; ESP-CUBA - PANAMA; RA-CUBA - PANAMA

Cult was a forme hot staff affece who defected on 21 Apull 1964

in Halfax Nova Scota..

. He was debreped and landled though

normal defects channels and Was the SAUCe of silens ESCI'S

соникд the DI. 1964 and is Is was wed pustinally in

met itempts against Dot offecess

during 1964-1967. the was terminated in JUly 1967, and was cordaled,

is as ottei CIA noordent seth Rodugh.

Handuretter Seduclaid i states of ELANK/ state is pact :

"Laformed "Calvin" in 15 Apiel 77 Hat [SLANK/fi still an

his coatract i dantive folde." RH IS pul 74

(cont.oa nest page).

11112648

Classification:

SECRET

•Classified by derivation:

10144-10115

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Чето

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Classification:

(This-form-is-to-be-used-for-material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Undated Memorandum i Cal lonmunn

SUBTECT: Ingenest of FLANK -1)

7

1. Jum ad Sugeet Chaige: Jugeet has bur ragaged undu oral

intract yor use under Poet SLEEPER the epicture Aste of te

ral cortuet a 16 Det.1975.

2. Scanty Approval: Aa DA In.op. Use of subjet outride us Was grasted

та 6 так. 11.

proper acresting of expenses.

Mon-staff Dussel bate Sheet dated 16 Illy 6

Mane: Kladenei ROARIGUEZ YetiR

Intract latgory: B Effective Date: 160c+.75 Equation hate dedife

CIA Employmest Authy

Detes..

Indir

Apr. 64 - N00.67

Agent

в

IM. 19 - Eust Safrimant

Socction Preet Salay

Hael Al. i trani ARUG 1600/as.

Mame

SLEEPER WAE

11112649

Classification:

SECRET

Classified by derivation:

3/90

---

## Page 3

Classification:

SLUKES

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Betry Wolf

в. Почетві 1973

lo, Legins track (201-169934)

Rusty to the one at

From: Hee Eventt RI/CO pu FF/3

Sowee Ды: Моле

Otter Id.: Nose

Rettin Duck: FE/3

comments: tunely filed in 10-4-20-13

sumereet thge..

Restucted tile: No

Hile indents l was fumer suctay of stuntioned Metay Hurd

Io was reused, dunny HUAC desungs In 1948, of darry н a mn

of a Soret aspirage group deter in Nastengton, D.C. la Mally 1948's

Ive and his were braveled to thine anca 1958 or Midng in Dkig

He chians mary the agencydoes.

Aro a sepacate Volume of thid ageney. (FBI) dots. I Morg , «лако

WHEELER.

11112650

SECRET

Classification:

- Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 4

Classification: _

SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

в Постви 1978.

Filteler, Ernie (201-289237)

I Novembe 1960 Menandun, M.O. steers, Se's to Reputy Di. of Secuty;

SUBTECT: Arenar Refectors

Refus to SRS memo bi Am. defectors dated 310ct.60.

"Irs. Dan Egetc, of the CI Staff, has fuckceled me the attacked copy of a

letter for Mr. Hugh s. Cummungs, T1., of the State Dipt., to Y. Ructard M.

Busell of this Agency, dated 25 Det 60. W/ referace to ' in Lefecters"

from May 1959 to Det.1960. Mr. lumnengs sited if this Agency" could " Hufy

and possibly espard" list which acompanied his lette; and this

Egent is prepaung a reply to din"

tommings list uncludes Is names, s of wheed are spend to in SKS

mero. on Am defectoro of 130ct. 460.

security reerds on other 4 reflect flowing

Telette was cellered, Iy I 5. Ainy auttoutes, t lave depected

t lommunist tast seinery; aos. that Solet hiny as I I. Belle

stated It 29 Fuse I9 lat Filetter had asked if polities anyler

i E. unay. No fettle ifs.

2. David DuBois: No of 21 Sept, 59, che was i hondor preparing to go

o Zeking

Mia Moscow To a 3u1. Stay. The is step son of W.E. B. DuBro

Notting is file indicates that the is cooldered a defector.

3. Moris i Molle Block: 1.5 delegate to MIscON Youth testinel i 1461é

subsequently taveled to lina at mortares of We Cople Republe

referals indieste the is entire leftist i pur. Communet hat not a

defecter. Is file canner de located at this time.

Classification:

SECRET

11112651

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 5

Classification:

*SECREL

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

4. No id. yet. N/ refuse to Sgt. face TiRes.

Not that sceney files contaca ing. Ml 3 deleir mho qualiy for.S. D. Ist

but went welded: Nickolas PETRULLT, DAHUl R. Sena, i Never He NORTHRUT

NIXON.

Laps se all defe. is this men i that of 31 oct. 60 her beer purished to Ms. gete

Pustrality tile Retion Resuest

Date: 21 Pee. 1960

From: CI/SIG

Ana Egetter.

Ong/Shoup lode: At

letion Reck: CI/SIG

comments: Residesce in USA: CHragton Kentucky

repected to I. semary- defo. reported

- Тин 59

Signature: N.5.

restacted: 100

Permanet Car: N0

Thed Ageary Doe.: hoss-rep. 1.5. Airy Doc HIAs. 65. (AAR-4319) R:$Jetzle

Also, sepuate herd Agery Abe.: Dept. of dimy ASCII-ASCD. M-TA: M-TK: L Dach.)

R2: Mattig of U.S. Defectors

B.F. Mitchell

201-282337 - just put to tet of X. H. Maitca

11112652

SECRET

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 6

Classification:

SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA- controlled documents.)

DuBois, Dard lake THe lanks, Daved Srakan)

curality (201) 7lle Request

Date: 20-Ian.60

Filom: (black).

Souce Doe.: DBF - 38988

lountry of kenduce: 115d

Signed

201-271141

Baekground Lafo. lappeas to de sARe As la 21 Mor. 60. Meno to State Rept.).

Melanks was isold a U.S. passport he 4 treb. 59 i, it is asslaed che

traveled to lommunist tera@Fie6.59.ukkr clin aste step-fatte, N.F.B.

2306.61 4220, DDP to D.., FBI: States that MilANs left Chira ¿ is

now tracking at the lais Neurity unde name of saved Dubois.

Hick wrier induates that An His Was employed in laid for swered

years as a journalist and by 3163 he had sequened Sharas eyeisky,

Last reports

(1969) indicate he is stell in lacio.

11112653

SECRET

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

