# 180-10143-10181

## Page 1

10 10143-10181.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

laox 28

SECRET

Falde 31

ITENT 3

8.H. Hunt-Os-File

memo -TO-chief, security Research staff from chiet LEOB, SRS

26 Jan 1970

subject E.H.Htunt

Reports that in June 1963 a post office box at the

woodridge station in washington de. was set up for Hunt in

name of Edward Hamilton.

1966-Special Clearance & lor billet approvali

Dated a2 Dec 1966- Mr. Hunt has been designated.

asst to Chairman, NATO Intelligence Collection working

Group (USIB) and is required to appraise the effect

af possible changes in the nato structure on u.s.

collection capabilities.

11110053

a 30Ct 1956-Hunt was to leave Japan. 1

28 Now 1950- Hunt was to be assigned tof mexico city funder

I Dept. of State cover. Hunt was integrated into bept, of State as ot

≤ 13 Dec 1950 ]

Hunt was to arrive in NYC on July 31, 1960

Employee of [GOLIATH.

0002456

junt's agency crypt Immarc- a

THIS COPY IS NOT

RETURN TO CLA

adaround Use On

1o lot Fraproduc

FOR RELEASE.

SECRET

SECRET

1 80-10143-10181

---

## Page 2

1. Wiielman

TAB B- Roselli Fle

SECRET

Edward morgan-Lassociated @ agency circa last in a covert

capacity= cut-out 1(April 7, 1972 memo From Gambino-DoS

to General counsel re bade county Police Request)

Fred Black-lobbyist inuolved @Bobby Balled

manuel Artime- security records -

overt

#61 1 523

I. covert

a10 838.7

operational asset utilizedby 000-1959-1963 }

Edward Pierpont Morgan - 28 May 1913= DOB

verona - # 163-681-Office ofsecurity file.

.memorandum for-DOS -dated 1a-19-69 fe caine, Richard scully,

alkya: Richard Scalzetti -

File on cain in Office of Security -

1961- operated private investigative agency in chicago a mero

1962- deported from mexico-fur carrying a loaded revoluer 8f

brassinuckles, volating tourst perm,t

1969- chret Investigator for Cook County Sheratf's office

Early 60's-"

investigated" cuban exile communists al related

actrutes in cuban area

1963- while in the cook county sher its office, he lame deeply

involved" in the the president kennedy assass.

April-196a- visited mexico lity Station.

Domestic.. Contact seruices used him as an informnt

1960-641

Richara cain passed info re chicago plot to Agency's contact office in Chica

Cain supplied info tre meeting of EPCC in Feb1963 uncler direction,

of Richard Criley-re Jc assassination.

0002457

L

SECRE

---

## Page 3

7/4

Protect only

21 highlighted

in Red Buschers

---

## Page 4

TABC - Artime is Bl and hed his group (FRD) supportedby

CIA. Artime was also used in castro plots by

the matra.

---

