# 180-10142-10490

## Page 1

180-10142-10490

2022

RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

10142-10490

the release letter an

amaste ot to 121

tomers durassinations

ger and testetres.

Mr. bestetines said that

he hard been the head of the

boriet liction of the Meriço

City Station in 1965. His main

duty was to get information on

loret personnel and their

activities for recagrition..

purpores and espionage/:

counter-espronage activitie

on line with these gorals Mr

testetner 19 nes possible

of the lorit embary anato

sorret personnel. Mr.

personnel and thorough

agents.cho. were in contact

ith barret Reposinel

0000254

---

## Page 2

or interest would be brought

to Mr. Hestetness attention

Bath ms beitetner anc

Mro Dillinger remembers

that they recievedall the

transcripts.from.all th

tayes on the bories embassy

were usually recieved later

offpanish.

responsible for reporti

reports affic EGRET

0000255

---

## Page 3

213

SECRET

Din 1963 Mrs Düllenger

was working

part time, coghad basis

She indicated that the tran

lena pad daily

photo production as not

refered it to

ith

carton copies of the transcripts

They were less sure but

thought that such e bile

was also kepton th

production of the

files usere designated bya

our part nun

bere (ex: 00-00=0=0)

0000256

---

## Page 4

4.

SECRET

They

were perally cataly

in 1969

from either

recined thest sons coripts

spamish.and.some.iisere.in

nolicated that he had a

close working relationsh

with

and

lied aw him for person-

lity assessmentson soviet

ACENT

---

## Page 5

SECRET

-5-

the tay

ansta

rem

shey also

at the

That the photo operation

attempted to get a pictin

afever

foreigner. in

contact

with the embassy

I said that the photog.

personality geesments orally

---

## Page 6

+ 6

SECRET

ALENT

dial notation ent

as somede the no

broken Russian

indicatore and atten

an occasion, work closely

with

in things of interest. Ther

was not case contact

between the Cuban and

soviet Operations.

as a rule, make

notations on the transcreti

as a rule he made his

notations in a seperate

stead. eat me buttin

did make the matation

0000259

---

## Page 7

- 7-

SECRET

about Osualdo Russia

He said that he had never

mat to

Abear

nations on his own as to

gence, counter-espionege, ete

They indicated that every

conversat

i was transcribed

dheis said that the

unilateral taps were not

directed at the soviet

embassy but.at the

residence of tet opiats

Mo bestetner said that

Attachis offices.

Allenger andbestetver

said that the thad no 00260

---

## Page 8

-SECRET

AGENT

hese:

tos Resure restricted

not peresting, discus.

y ersalia-

tians, aid on sanaccasion

Accus

ndleguately.competant.

reliableand hones?

the

they back said that

und that he was Chick of

Covert Action at the time

zuelager

They remembered that he

sas Chief af Cuban

aperatians but were

insure af the time they

describedPhillips.ao.an

aggressy, active, Ancarial

said that he

0000261

---

## Page 9

SECRET

world lave had accesseto

was professionally

ation His job wais

and printing the pas

thie

mbassy

Nillen

Laid that 14

nd sestetnier

thay unally ponted would

W.reportafa fareignen visiti

0000262

---

## Page 10

10

SECRET

- Mi hestetmas spita

higher attention, Ms Sestetne

indiasted that suche

ivasalmast

danely routis, esacially

They said that

EMployee

Endogea

Cubaneriction

asananalyst in the

a wasan

TEO LOA/OH

was

..s wai

the " clicke" that enge

scott's alisolute confidenc

wnd.was.mivolied.ing

the sensitive surtreillanes

aperationis...

SECRET

0000263

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Euplifee

ras also

Letnes

thinks he

Emalizer:

ranthe

ph

Einsloyee

sisteriasellance team

techni

ciassinsolied in

mostaf the

natallof them

opezations, if

Modestether said that

Hear

one of the conversations He

said that the tapes were

not kept very long befor

re-use.

Mr bertetner said that

would routinely

dentify partici

onwende

the transcript. He does not

recallenes instructi

not to make marginal come

-SECRET

0000264

---

## Page 12

-12-

SEGRET

sellinger gain spot,

said;

then soinceal info woul

le routinely checked duerto

theis tr

singas intelligence

offices

Sestetner and Dillenges

ivere arted if they had any

independent recollection

fhow@susaldfirst.com

to their attention Allenger:

indicated that her memory

was that the first

information that she had

recieved about Asiald.

was that he was seekin

a visa Mo. Sistetner

indicated that he had

terreed the bile perio

his recollection was that

the fist notice that the

had was from a tran- y

sniptaf asualdsconver-

salon than gourdon

Ther

were then shown

the Octobertet transcrip

0000265

---

## Page 13

Det !

ост!

413

allenger did not recal

this transcist arith

finst one she sac after

seeing the cable the sent to

HQow lOs whe said that thi

transo

I must have freen

the and because of the

similants dfiths info. Ichen

iked whether there wava

reference to a visa in the

cade thation, shacknow

such a reference. Thenasked

explain her.memory.sh

said that the reference. to

stelegram to Mashington

and the fact that he was

talking to the consulate had

that he was seeking a visa.

whataction.

Dillenger was at altar

recing this transerped

---

## Page 14

14

SECRET

someof the priatran=

have beer

cable (MExi 7453) and, at the

to the tigat serge a memor

ledged that the routing notation

would have been writte

w. the transcripts. wh

he find recentlged

directin

0000267

---

## Page 15

915:

& SECRET

convertations was noted

prion to the assassination

When Dillenger was

askedalots the paragraph.

photo the said that the

must have checked the

photos. She was shorona

photo of thi mmmand

said the thought that that

сов ді вать вати.

previous prostsin the

that th

e photo productio

lot

000U268

---

## Page 16

- 16 SECRET

Earloyee

a hour bait a sens

o many

ation requested had bours

---

## Page 17

017

Ispoken to Kantikor she

aid that the could no

remember but she war

sure she must haire

rechecked it and had

proof, as otherise sho

soon

that they had aily seen

then Detols that

bad ront a send made.

filing and rantin

lionson some of t. notru

to the date of this me

mapros

---

## Page 18

115

SECRET

this hay undilah that

with dare Phillipen ledged.

nost recall recievino

response to this cable. Whe

asked whether hehad ener

tot that that a hat

a photo of Oscald, Bestetnes

sent hearing ad

photo bestetner said that

taken bya facest in Russia

0000271

---

## Page 19

19

SECRET

ind obtained by OCD that

the 20l file

recitate it else one

atens palia maladged

givinfithe date of the porto

as October 28 by saying

that there can be errors

He noted that the inference

was that the date was

September 28

Neither Seatstones nor

Dillenger could recall

specific details about the

Employee

Theywere asked about

nation being regent.

one was recieved. Th

thit they can not finit

find

"SECRET

6000272

---

## Page 20

20-

SECRET

the conisensation of 9/28

was reportedtilisfare.or

after the station learned

that his

he conversation had

beeniconnected to Cavald

buyith Medicans

uritina

availalle had been.

reported when the 9/27

conversations, the sist had

nat been reported. He can

was to the Cuban one on

9/28/63.

threaten a canaladge.

hary insual for 140 to

visited the Embassie

at least s times and not have

been picked sorry the phants

0000273

---

## Page 21

ZSECRET

aperation

sentetses continally.

seemphasized that HO's

visit i the repost ide

Whep shown the

sonly tramrcribed!..

---

## Page 22

SECRET

wer

pery unusual that

the IO/O DIR

that giza son

heard dif

involve

casedated thendo

SECRET

0000275

---

