# 180-10145-10446

## Page 1

180-10145-10446

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Reder 7

SECRET

8273000

Selet Cat 15 T sent rober

WIM respec I... Intellence Meter fees

(SSc)

guesd This Fend Report (Bint I

wreck.@ essence faulted the Cit

minusin in...

nor in fany Ti

communa

TuNt

Mis C6r71

FOR RELEASE.

10146-446

1044:

---

## Page 2

SSC

SEUIILE

overstuce fa foreign espin?

and the

Stung y the senato uten

brat that аскыт in the nudea

uport i preda comprehendene.

1977 asier 10 aune

at last within, the Apery, the

1977

4 ти СПі нитити те тавн

ane- curres plots.

to the

1o of the Agrees Crichuans, the 1977

Report achinedge that;"

'While one can undustand.

would dare, considued in spendid

Ime what not ten in gener

because of tensen of the eme.

The Agensy should have

---

## Page 3

SECRET

ahen broader mitateres thin,

ка. well.

It is not the pipese of

n. anapie to Metail.

tod the

confling. wewpoents of the SSC and CPR

watt.

to the work it the CIAs tastro andsen

dennis and to resolve rupares

controversy as to gent importeur.

Rays Instead this paper seeks

o pesent.

a vaut of source, of caned

cumes is covement or poten. eas

involvement in cA

agant: Cuba diy 1905-43.

certain

, in prentia and emilusene

The nature, scape, and motivates

so if the sindiato

sacrams in to suares.

0002120

SECRET

---

## Page 4

Finalument of sagent thine si

Oft plots to basis Fil liste

SECRET

the:

genesis of the

utifustem

1 of the

to anassinate contro ce

Thi1147.

Instate denmar depert an occur

Веран перід на у сь рела

marine to.

Cames" Big fein",. O' Ennel, veet mes

equeen that Rovert Ai Maker wes

I re ran in send streetene cara

operanna, would de crimes to

ucrits the necully susad.

ore Altailed in gp 74-75, Intu Pent s

0002181 10

Jol Inselles name co emotion

2 surem Reparte 1253

SECRET

Elmimenti Maleu seens the

---

## Page 5

SECRET

logical person to have should

and cntacted Roseli for serves

ласта. Ін от. прім у близ ріа

m sa nagar, manun atony. There

sa memo to the OCt. dated

Mr. Mahun aenered hat he

had mer one soon Rout on

seved areason while very to

quate.

Riselle

Cumeni.

emili content is foun

in toole FAI file and unit

nailed teleshene call in 1954, 1 sec Dreset

witness

Coment

SECRET:

---

## Page 6

SECRET

0002183

Polli, attaigh againy shopped

a pust, aqued (sa mering in Ning

In't Cay mat Mine and I Crise

I discuss further distale

How aya the Pagean Derali Ant

places the musia sh Plega elten

on 14 septem 1940, Riselle recalled Mah

the treat

discunion to pace durs

began m. Seppente 18,1900.

Comin

as to tene y carr rent best a i unles

hat he nts in contact wash Roselle it

This terne or I Textuy y de Varma,

har his visit had an acassassonati motevaten

to a 19. NON: 1970 mento

it was at the septemies

Agreeds interduce him Maheal to

a

frind, "Jam Ored, whis Anew to

Immint:

te reming it the intere

port trans

a Coold and Traine

of the "The" coll of the moh in

the cano anassert plote. Kandy

---

## Page 7

SECRET

?

to the 190? I. di Repent, the st

1. biancana took place.

daving the

Week $ 25- Sepreiner 1900.....

[ 1947 I-6 Report, p18 I

In contract, the SSC Inten

dato curi

Report ahp. 76, does not

18." (p74) pechese o empien

1t svitence teven the

1167 Ii6.

Sende testency wtch set the intender

in a Norme 1100, ts a emponene, th

surin Repart nasoned hat Grancien

dal pan mitiduced do te Mahan

la vegas vera dene macre

1160 which

cereales, an 7h7 IISGR

mvoerement..in.an.araassencom

,, por afint Castra 2FA7 nuno, dat

Crementi

0002124

FaCh

dudl rasse lesed in the

Intem Regort on p 77 ave sigent fo

curial

anales which.net de

dealt with segarty ist the belem

cament!

SECRET

Altkregh the 1967 Fit Report Fall

---

## Page 8

SECRET

That " Mater

o! Стиш. челе nct cother" Gild"

o1 goe", the Interem Repert dinjuea

cOr.

0002196

Xie, nho was woing the noe you

" sait he had mer "sam

and yoe, nce, on hhm iy sep,

EO.C. 5/30175,89- ч4-291, FafuniGeuitin.

nent

serual.

cmpuits, appear alo or t

wawnd mint.goens surzaeneien

the Septembe 14,08 muxup n

Ny:8. aid Miami.

torinsénci,

/l) Did Rsseli trn. fim Mh Fegeny

toed

Renseld that yy wece cnesenty

mxunatena businen in teuts vaver

Rmill.tenthed.thw maheu toed hem

phat d'Chnet wan CiFttLEntem Peptrgto

Fortnote.,

mpil. malchee

hu Rosei te

3 weens affu the New sprt merey" isleh

is dury ree Mani civolene o Fenzona,

hat" I am not beddig f mn

d iFA ia Setstim i that ites

dowiful is Graverea ad Trapecente

---

## Page 9

0002187

SECRET

could have been enterted unter

they cared he sare of gires

this theme with he

debeloped.. more pull pin.

z1. Roseli fed his Cutan cran

that he.. was an "agent time

had.. nich intuits.and

wound Cuba..:: (Rosell: 6/24/25

2 Dach Andurn columen

have vacatire agent burde

Kennedy?

i...e. Nore de the anasseng

cans, hovenerous.

I tu chit invoremen. ru CFAinstigan

had repusente themserer doumen

seching revenge againt carro

for his sugure of oil holdings.

Luf Indunni source for thi

so Willian

i seroia discipances

Vil CIA, senato, and badur Musens

nuch ill purport to defend, in raye

degrees

Rasedli

incens

"Jam die dent de

super. Fust so a hashe

---

## Page 10

6002188

SEUNEI

котик yan the

sendto comuaa

stap aruenter th ané nemppes

Sunly sayple mert (Baulel Nuch pungeta

танки preree , рын

I rsrcane thise

shrminy Mane aud o Chinel te

the

natine of the

seeple with tiem

Wat Ahi O'Chinel aa Miheu

пчи,

tnking for an tis pest.

3geratin Gyte thit intado.

X the tep mavioi in the

wite Siater

..o'Cmacl

ventified thah

wruch

te ajenetin encgule in ite > ey

ales dhaire

to. tho

ioles

weuch weeà

he gas y trck "Goed oud foe"

in Bitet the pre- Pay of Beg

phase

y me s murarm.

Ttiioun Iahai desccted

Moncnca as plajery a

"hey" rote,

---

## Page 11

SECRET

0U02189 ANder, 7/29/75,p.34) and direussed

's lis got as "to tocito eneri an

' Cartin entrenge new coult

acemplesli the menstre", Rimede

don playa, finicorns part.

that.

of a" Pace rep.

"mand Rear

6/24/75p15) Ale

IN hitter.

is open for quitem Je Ricele

Senat characteyan o Mania voce

?, his allier

went

on unrest. to

dice to his

"hintil of the Cuten und" weil

Trafficantdsi in solvement

availabe evana. he 1947)

more pinter of the

Its depart of

ende Intum Report t

so stato that i

"Gold sentified"Joe" to Makeu

an a man de vault sure

as a courier to Cuts and.

mate

anarge ments there" Ito Gput

p/9; Interna Repost p??S. to

desceptim of /ray

Intum Repent quito p.199 le

1907 1,d6 deput in statur hal

"At the terre, the sainty casinis

were st operaty in Cute

and I recame we metr

rupeen Illam

---

## Page 12

0002190

Imment

SECRET

i tracuated anesha

runa cora to. the evidence

ricalled

11.959

and weed that deement

Havana on Fate??

1980.

(See Trafferent file, Stati Dyst), Manu

1erd No mende availie

i de the

MEBP wund my later. 1900

ravels.

even saige. the Bureau

anent main tune Mcen survillace

infiend

inter that he take mid te

to cute ate his wise fine

pum in August 1957 and

placed thise seoum nihir

by the toe of the senat

Mmy of ass, hens, Traini

---

## Page 13

00021 1 ever beleno Cancan ourene

Lad

mere...

redd of to

and. The Cuban's

who had been ricruited for

the cereal isassinaton Freese

Tragicant and baselle 199)

11977 Copussend appeninces

detail. well, best remain cu

i win thade on to the to

repented in 192357 the

prides:

That the Send hit not regrouy

sun exanine ether man a

rus dus cupancy nos dia

the

Tatum. Report hinh"

the pratem.?'

The astor had ben

usemes for the lauding of

te enteria. a discuss ryan

a to the

metert s75-10

Any fole the sentined, stagit

hut this

---

## Page 14

was flary apsed to the use

preams. A said that no on

Could te werited to ts the for

recause the chance a junive

and escape wail the neglightle

rancana stated, a peerice for

ethal fill that could be jul

wan recal with acce to

presume da fort

that wauld nate shirl,

sumepticuring porson lestro, The

name their man

who wok

then office Guy.and Duetter Cora

1ни 7рий 1 the amo Minter

to recur trick sa fem the

costthatsaurco.mame.ou

nument

- quid alone

Spent tease all do exten signiten

---

## Page 15

SECRE

0002193 When i cued to the final

secmay..

зито нойни

prating to the pass non. soau

which is in costen neces

i all in diege emanat

note

I su Trappinto profile S

Umiment

sine

report whin it was faced to

porem. raised t

in Apiel 23,1975 nucle, cmen

The

лені рук витів,

Sriyu said," I then

Intendy to the

---

## Page 16

0002194

SFCRET

Чина ни reng ae de

an aten

---

## Page 17

the tentere erectines drone

00021955 MU 1972 Duport all an folle?

por It is abric that may lene y

speculam can de develies,

- chas of when is that the Agrey

old not two the fit tear

Addetnal considente

1970.

лнжи sune Yun in New Yort Dais

Nina sun i 1975 and 1974,

3,

Fant Stenges

sums to ted

hut not a nines

if syndro. Cauld well dam ben

used of the sunderse.

stages has not bun a white sona.

He proset ten ana in Cula

but tie

not a inassin.

If there was an Caller oratin

wi orta, it was not CIA'i Calin

aw ween enter operate i sellas

Stigs, could were bum i fee

is posit

---

## Page 18

SECRET

000002197 Neither The: 1967 F66 Repart

or as s5c Interim Repast can

penpoent.. the perce dato on Wheel

macissa the possine pees

Futurn Report, p8ds.. The chain o

gills to de dunne firm. Rosselle:

to. Trian. Although. the rest

Comment:

the senate. In. Hem. Report reporte

the

buscen of yoe shimon net

Get whose.

puny was. tank. the

may nd pits for the operation

мис

at te Friendle

vived i a stay a filed me ent

so sure not shared y

anime ete erned site the seen

---

## Page 19

SECRET

0002198 Passelli, Mencana, or Traficanto

appear as

"cony" as he maul?

lead one a delive,

st is the spread tat shram

passage a pu pars at

as M.XC413,1961)

and cined I upot that Cartro. became

ill a few top mes later,

attempt tu

pourming?

a fact apprents

untenna shine before

des... "deal" to iran and dis

senato testinene

Umment

positem in castro spie ne

26 puny 1941, whill the parang pos

the operation was still fuely on

It waild som though, that t

genes did hum that the and

ahead toothis acare to Cantro

---

## Page 20

0002199

SECREL

Wett. the

pantre de Onta

perduce the desid resis,

to pajest wee of a sailed.

, once ajain, Jankieceste

-that "Trafficanto deers

a certain leadio pigure in

the cuban exit nieme min

se its is accomplish the anasserta

Coment:

the wile leader was y chuse

s' ww. was the sulped or specular

incity tum notto receiving penanca

aid fom Anucn garyse for

any- cartoo actinia

into..

in over in CIt planny for. the

Darut in. Uneven niza no beat

in 1160t

---

## Page 21

SECREI

id. else liver Assicatos

Глика и ни ретирни

of the Dind. an. sadle

pure: Mains firm, sonat

I mass and Ass caster, Man had

unsuccinful:" + 1947 746-Report

P.307

The Farials

insince

using.

"is, the

the.cullenc.hothua.ane

lamar admin

1160 shirin

sports, tsar "educato"

ни описей

jere some canto,

which may his euphenon to

---

## Page 22

JLUIts.

0002201

dusthe lagied infeneste

ast ngayed cunce, and other

wno had the poeentedd of unitinng.

sht +a mul ftud o uxie

graupa pho muun a cotenuear

intermeare rumie.

de cauma

wes:

undustandaly plesset

to pernict borto ofe

us.

ishitpper him suppott au

no questims

se to the

moteres

ro pep tonacia... dl l pene atce

meny o muring ( прит

tu, anga cuno fo adriia,

tar de aejed an an." anttepiter

in sevud mutings amenduy

Ml auna, Roselli, esnerin, and oites

exiles.

Thse metinon nue aniges.

y Raau, "medu" fener, a Tinpento

in suni duny the

cainild thot Rmseli dad pirees

wcwt fener lus ths eppenn

unuay on rew d Tirficantr

0 lny-stund cntsh wad ter

m: Cufre. Aua Ansclles

idmin t.

---

## Page 23

Trafficanto

ooozane provide the

he ill-fated, Guan Arte

Venapulter

отику ні.

Coment!.

the situation at

Youner спанькум

Triticantes. Com

тус / гарнани

with Gener, May?1978

and: Traftants.

testenury, Get?19773.

зелоді

the

Int of the castro an armin plots, more

that

de Varmai

not to the Bad pup sive, the

7 ви ситінся тив с сле

, The stron miano?

Rael was postone that of one

---

## Page 24

SECRET

attempt, (ortaa) var made pe

avezan dina pos e ilas de

bott pelle, mi

ad super do der ana quel es

corroborate y d'Conel ot

quey 196% Hu copet is unans

"Y yu sexto in s pecula y

that mil one pre-Bary cy Pip Mery,

no de, and Mal de vene au

avaned fer, Corta)...

the poism..

abundes

emment.

There appeas de no parre

was d resolve de Unnai dural

au attempton casts lipe at argtem

aremos sepan genes

coment

de ases me amene en

havy al. I Mona parecepres

into paten en tut sepedicas por

SECRET

---

## Page 25

SECRET

0002204 Phare 7

He debacle which mained

rc nud-Apil 194) Buys ligs

effort,... curtaila CHA.

апатина сибрь удів пона

no until, spil 114z, when Bill Har

assumed. Aging upon fer the

task wicke

he are to mine remell.

Hoven, the fact that the

was squeamuch dey the

~ gang operatin? 156. Repty 39

Carnal

u generato his fres

hat Rossellis aeg to

to Hermap: contest in

Brill 194.2

was in mediate Once again the

pinne the te

ideas to trul

and once The a te quoten

which bear rin the urmies

quested of the moti

motevaten au

---

## Page 26

006221 5

sudusnus ini cangeny outt thes

part of the brugain stuut in 1960

Fuet,. In Pauke One, Ressell if al

had demontrated thein arl d eperno

the contac on catro ly ramuziy teer

sourcc who was, in

postim cose d Cartro o suered,

In. contust. the Itale of the nerder

преежа. Ane the MlM oih

fretene:

aissene. was. duiriae

vague.

Ater prezt tamny wuite nu Rnzilian

Meani.

"thee

in spu194r,: Ham upented the

manntin wruch Tl ihha

miteuia was to de in toatied, do mo detros

Aard I waish inooed! an wat of cumas

ao bad aceur to somunichi

rnfauaat.

peques y

dontro."

sune 1904 ader Kse.

Vnunn dur

wari. miny

.and minutens tomo

te gAwAvr statn aut han

sent the pelle tint luter,.

pusemay

"Rescll

прини аму т 21 виж. та ск

had dispuntonel a.team k thhu mu

to cuba fut which thy wece rggpny

I on rpontuny es mdl lerts preseny

May of the pesms thy recruete

Weu o mane tt aanpt - peulape

uning the pirs.

ifarr nore Mans

---

## Page 27

SECKEI

ngrt fe fens cel det tene

SEGRET

---

## Page 28

0002206

SECRET

their names or. athy so them?

11967 S6;Peprt.p573

eminent.

As the 1967 to aikes comery

obscared; Hairip tall of the

Favork intaurant

phon

was

Janular in that Bewada

had deciled prises the same

Man,

i, the fact. that Vauna

riled The Ilack more grande!

(cria. 1960-mi619011: leads. to the

possibilites tha

' Many war. com in ameny

raw de was talery are are

not had ben unry

I. Vama refore, dily, and yes

(3) di Vauna was singly maling

up a

story for the tony to

gain turnacial badad or in

response. to auctives fire

nymegd сита

SECRET

the cart. of undu und

---

## Page 29

0002207

SECRET

ситкома спаха.

Hanny had

insted that.

we dropped fin the orater

which.

Rachi

ready under to...

Trafficants" in pepute" the wa

"Cuban Who spore Italian" aunt atio

someteres used the name bana toney

and body

Crimart

"Maccor

"" in ferdue ten veto me

If the nish sensitie est covert

шлют ін вінни виний велом

Agexy aring

Fraugh Hu 19877-8 Rend Chrasi

Mallo an

"Rensullis men", a

pirate rist the individed week

had

wed in the denys au

who.

shit

persessed, en 194z tee

mist. cruplit network o talen

Muni ad Cuba,

---

## Page 30

SECRET

Kany that du pill and gene wee

in Apil had annes in Cube, and an

unidented thre-man tam

has been depar

readying a scent thie-man

who.

were" suppesed mitres ner

were assignme no do renegins

castes vod guard D ur this penad

re medicine was norted de still'

Mace and the three men if the fint

were. constricted deny Decemen. ay

i Neverthiles, de Unma

paymen tom

Hacy: 296276. Regurt p52

aqued that" pother

was hagening and that yere was

he way out of foul with

The last metery"

sutrun the

---

## Page 31

SECRET

and Rosselli accend in Underta

0002200.C.bn.

fine 1143: when he wes

Their

He do crunght guest. Resi

musing estersity

_wes not deery

Mated to my anass inster.

plots,

SECRET

---

## Page 32

CONCLUSIDN

SEURET

0002210

the availa evidence suggets

in part, is tactly ansume f the keen on it

1922 cur Drople Genuili Report

It is poseda

involved in pinding cal ne

tunes per is dement neena

under way:

may have been piggy-baling

M. Ни syndicate, and.

in additems

Is material contributes, was

an aura

the revan evince i as follo

/.FBs.memo 18.0cti9b0re

rancana FISUR:

... Giancarn

M Knee ecoasens...

mitha gil, nos further deed, to

some sent

unment

Attain the sent manage

betwen

---

## Page 33

se sugais e fet interinos

ir is

мак. That no plan were

seriard temen the.

prolistira

rancana:

repuls,

could te a part y the CPA uta,

лет і вико вля не тоб ки

positin.

зло конт Вій ринулі

Muchman

pirenta agent ipho CIA

which 1x caule uncia o the

rache fired,

wauld"

ve that the arec

ont atemping to telite, the

gerement.

Add, na Comerent

The dem do rincanas

nered and s Rechad Cais ter

no taissom ineste

mossibilas com cairi damssen

---

## Page 34

SECRET

joined. The chicis prec seperpet

10 i chime es in the i

a

Shen, FB7 puls sucere

as plans, to go to Cute to

fir ex-pudul

Prio (stand stry, the

coincidic

same more serpens. The sunple

i that

Chin

riy sent

lu porson,

ruse tenan

where so it

Exuld de the contart man jer

aurarm:

the

I Tie in mino on. Chin nigh

urerage 807-391960-Mahme Nas

quited on this poems

Cain

contenied to "olunteer"

inman and sent to ThefT

---

## Page 35

SECREI

0002213

was the finer head of the Direstores

i Cubs where il was a magis

name in deposing henant

Chin

Count Shenys

some

and

2 Recrutment of die senill

In decly the putative passner,

rancara

mortareso

spot de a

get "who

castro whit thie

individud recruits for the cIt pille

casts an orta, a secreten

be taverna can nice de resis

Irapicanto was cla in the

hert

---

## Page 36

SECRET

It was chimn for Ances gangs.

0002248 have cilan muser and

тарсано,

- Ratoman, and Torne

typia Maples, Abi, one with

so ru conatio run last cra

accused t anny as the Nacin

sort (mined Mite Michany cincreate

ma unner desi to rust me

han run where eas

to have anand

Kixcupned..

tend, or cout

sour a that, she is the Snee

mister, and, thes cuck

nave Men sole ted, to detevato

was soo.

ashed. about her ransle

wth Tones in cure to that die

do not tea the date

match,

unment

---

## Page 37

2002215

SECRET

Onta

"Ast his positen in the Pame Mee

scendy to the

official rusem Orta recupied for the

We in the Fly they pheck 1961 des

Let the all for a cample weeke

not was one enoghte

i? The other ponde

pills neve

rests, see that the

The puken itser then de

matther

the mop was

prises

sher om masseue poor and

motives penal

Turney to Chase It of yee

walid net an

i sog le and that the mors

wards curt de runn

5 CIT

contemied.

---

## Page 38

SECRET

of the CFAr,

0002215end Parat anton,,

Mispere

турт салех, та срет

the Ageay alfresh

continue do.den

The to yu those strikere of

have # in tunes of yu amorguren

nature y the geram means of cere

He sans of ining a st gent

very lagen Amells wad set th were

whitent retalie

corona enseles

were that the

see speculaten

гуплить

при ура,

egg, and that fortune

panama, las Vegas, and I caftante,

?? Mu the inum parate, and new

Moles as Cuton

Year the new huntere Deranent

remit tho "ide-open" Cult o

чи ри- тотту ма деми у шит

he denmare. SECRETA

---

## Page 39

risede 27 disne sense in

Mobile 1092153577 te, La

goal caud le foun thento un

Tat nemens

- solidyienten o portem neta

l regan was dumity fra y the payes

in Nov. 1940, al vas linsa intera qui au

2. Joen Resselli

Repnt, ps 5, nitt 4,

cese in segal meno in Pachi i9714

atteript o reduce

son, ence

tes attempo dele deportaten

---

## Page 40

0002218

ah indurers purend interestin

ith Des (se bidun pistenio, an

3 fam Geneares

= Datole 1940

- are 1947, miterent nuth FNL

cocca, o sauter knowI

in 9432194786 Regent. p1295

- Correaten. neth Sam Papich

m. 3 may 1907, Sam commit that

12967 7-6-19781311

SEGRET

---

## Page 41

SECRET

Notio

Jack

Arterson

"castro Retaliation"

0002219

Theny,

Mack 312073 Dew Pearson Intes

saurce:

1947 It. Reprit'

1). It is quito line the Risseli co

he source, moran the channe, an

Indum and Dearer the recipients

CPIZUS

- da We mas now arme thes

Queen say an ait

Al faite than we do, and he evelay

has

falled

(pizal

- Imgact

The Rissel-baum. contes in f

Vegas in Maid i

parcely de tel

Carto has some they to do with t

renne in assinaen in retter

hot the that castro actual thil to

SSCRET

does home god warn not wan

tu stony and funter, Unpare patters

might came humo

se du lucrative

---

## Page 42

092221

SEURET

cust, Jughin. There night he some

de gamed com enderer

- The Peaisen story, soled is new

ne detail that i met found a

Mace Two's the thrce-manteam

comment

involve in Phase One aho, he ma

wase wegen to 3 man tear

itall und in super anett se

pür dient men tun th 3 man team

1 Maneu o O'Crant die Phase

coment

: In figuey aut ulfenor mutenéé

for a.

lan to Platon, Aguy midde,

the fallens goint.

he could la

Cament

SECRET

Diew pearson was not yet,

mai et des de stey a le guis

---

## Page 43

and the fawy

00222281277

SECRET

Sto Dept. nexy,

Se p12 whuen "Dren Person

lains to have a repost that there

was a legs ve me ng on the

Dest as state at we panted the

attended y fury, furvey,(p1r).

2 Other sources.

a) Memo re: 15766,972

Des aware that Rosali

veer. gov to expose ploss, de "dered

signore

and take a

calculate rest as to the consequence

That may occur my ohe dudesume

I his Josy. This nie step dene

marin

said mahend

oil mix deal;

recent ex pissert

inden re malen rod in the Cuten

so Peter, an an itumeduc

---

## Page 44

0002723

SEGRET

bease' theny is that miher

thaughs that seich puoeed, noud

"Scare there oy" Cre, Fatuld wy i haw

CIA sty t intesan Hughs!.

"Mnyar. тани посни. я сини

Hught splicds thas the hhed better

Tan s, eay on, Dlahm feches

o au past iottent with cft

E mimuiù fecurg. Fite. re Mingens

4.

Merco 19 NON 1970

Haiy jlad confares witte Rnedi

ni. Noenter- Deerfu,162 and auy

1965

follery amilli chmettes-

nn wuaaden nee uepureza lessel

that prelli paces deporaen aus

walls thew'sty.

equore threat aud Mihen apreed,

Mtuss un cene etenn quene

5.19 Dee. 1967

sen. Jeng dechine id Mnyn toel

---

## Page 45

00022.24

Psselli

-Abo, the Derester Chelmal had seat

Hary a

sendtr. Пории.

was she shy be ten terr

6. Memo, 28 Azul 1947

y the those I operan beet

any alazery m tony amnitoo

An warrastip with telen, with amell:

I said he had no lumen

how Them Mingan du

-

Raeli zend pense fun 7135

Minitus missed heda 9yre git

- Bellad MAngan dek dem some

---

## Page 46

Там я ини

SECKET

Eww of chur dutt

gamers

15 gan 1977

00022,25

Memo se request y Dishe Cz

mustate, for epinese on

/ a, Ramn Won Westere

6. Rolanto Mastener Regas

c. Luciano Nuves

di fare de la Tonente

c.. Jese Quintana

t.

joaquin utmo corters

9.

manda tremes

MILASH

2. Two is the 3 Culare minterid ani

Iwo name minted side alce

1970 qua o securs

meno

Risel or francara

Vle

sporadio antacts, dued and induct

aprix. 1971.

o Unrel un alias be interes

I Dade cry.

I ofice a sunt has no such

reministed or calan agent in wan hea

deny tune of his deut SECRET

---

## Page 47

0002225 Nievée

c. Released in March 1965 you seeny

apes le months of a soyr sentice.

megy walre he was of empest to mader

- Augut 1965 enteres

Staten

= Nor 1925 to Jan 1966 I opiatial

infut to $DO

shimm

He is mentines on ta poem Indi

jie as pusenal und y Rnali It.

Is futter noted that Shaen When Denil

but theres inteat if thir open recal

rasphantem

38 Hugent 1976 requit 4 sit strica

A Rudiger, Alexandia FAD ge.

- Cuban contacts of Reali

I quandsta

was an offered of the lento teve

enca 1900-41 and was a anto

Sentes Trafficane, Otta was resend selle

bringine to made do an are note

sant Castro.

2i Tony V carne

When

in carmy out the niam at desho

controled Vane, SECRET

---

## Page 48

SECRET

0002227

arsets of his in to caig out the minor

Vane, als regently used his so. initio

to anut tum in this eft but there is

had a man, ali pusal a

it also used the names varcia Cine

and Coday, lany was mell fo

idea face, with was dund as a

f. No enfo on regard dead or

511339-3523 dead Threate agant Ridle on

suman, or Mngen ind

3, Menco 15 Fed 1972

4, the Agry was aweve that Reell

in endea to expre his pared in mathe

we should we not intercecom

a behay. The DO I died to

ignore dus treat and fal a calculat

it's the duden as he stay; ter me

sulsequent den y pid or samene

en his shall furnisha Zach A nature

detaile of the in curtent.

SECRET

---

## Page 49

JEuitl

0002229

Meno 20 May!9?!

supech.

Infer Tel.

; Magan had wex engayed y try

are pesley yhu Maku

1H Penre

finue Apery wans Intaed new, said Mnyr

maty naiser s outem,tepla rperiale, thas

Mhiy leal better tale it exy m Mile beeer

y hes purt modtend w, 1ftr

IColu" Soutlend: +41 942-64-109n in torel

w/ Maluus cinuttereouf nonty aut ditals

anarye neutt all

tucuft Dw y Hryle ted.

En part seares (rgn dud on quit weis

In May 10,1971 Mh. Perke mid' Malee

→ trder un cnnolod togadoi cu som nlus

deah, Iwerte tooly ct thi sadocher

sneu sumur sna teu to pacl the s oure saayurs.

sfint. Iewons expes t bianere

awn vol mn tho lerom reodate was a

deivião expizure instigatet ly Root Milea

unay his 8m Pefes as an artenndey,

Pidsei thens is thot Taleden Jeot. Thap

suc puttirg would'scare temry?

Te Zuertel stay i anvore ya sluc

conaus mitmos fetires Pete tan

uid pash Anbrn or a munde y'hen souf.

SECRET

---

## Page 50

00022,30

19 NON 1978

For: D.CI.

saly

Rise, Johny

2, Fil

Seau had arito that may ast on a

semitre mine Mily gangste ape

5. Mr Maun adried that lu lead wit

was given to indeen that to was a

A bush ranty mine of the seatte an eng

all a the la many Pideme MI1 Srip.

numer of the can,

had cannons, ready of the when

jamally are.

6. Males to agra A who dew Man a per

7, Pitch made i ,4 foot ho at Hilten Pina

His Futed readin was to could get will

Cuban Gnod." No may squid as paid,

introdued to sam stagy at the Tontinebla

SECRET

---

## Page 51

SLURLI

00022,32

I him as a courier operatery

between Havana a Man That he

saw plates ni Sundey "Supplenty lapde

9, In descery the ponte methoda

accarply this nasson sam seen

that thy nor resort do peridin

potent pill that could te pled in

contres fond or dant, it van dea

that he dad a perpetre remine

was had ben seen

malts, whis still had aren do lasto

and was in a

apparenty got cold feel o ashed act

of the assignent, de secred and e

candidate who nade sema armpis

dunu.... and berni dispers

v! Ни, фурпиклресним рекиэ

You and me we wilms to tandi

so missin time du m marines,

13.

le used, as a perequints to the dial,

that de may he genen to, no for

---

## Page 52

SECRET

17, May1942 Havy fool are an lane

offees o it. is not how of the sue

what R. was used open try fome

0002233

11. Helped wit

Now. 1147

18.2 Dee1948 R dold y Fire on.

19, Hang rested to tiny but thes

contact i Rei No-Dee 9478 flat.

It was his bely. fuck Joley i i sechant

the tay In amste in dinare

I ex run endure to di was wein

in agued .

30,

19N01970.

Maken calls o Camell do aluse

Faw i ahue attony, ad Anger. had

ward a call fon Tim Waddin who statest

expose de.

of his actres lu ser

not so aust 2, Male was so

caved the l l no conded are

inden A Guare 18,1971.

le anti's steel Caster, tent tam ma

SECRET

---

## Page 53

CLORENO

contart at Fontanale

Fe 23,1971

Once le called en du radet tera

San Cancana do line up a contact.

Me conficia files report that o had

garay inteust and en in feut in the

двино beexnen in Cuba", Inewr, the

li gangster tento no deria part en Me

amassinatir pal.

19 1c 1947

Mino for Reend

2.

Te teut nevale.

Dir escening

He mit of or sat sen curs

I. file the valiey y te se dent ese

want am, o al por or not the tus pun

A consider ay posito inferente ne

ais that

vice es

Mar por tA Di to se tre pista

muy to work

SECRET

---

## Page 54

0002236

I1Peciltom

" Hang regun lunder neuten w

Ragich in sih sea, o Oshemm Decis

2. 26NN: NO: R Rcall Hany.

who mct tun ar madion toe for

3 hun,

28 New Spent 11 here at Betteda

4, techey to stay,

cour clus.

I'm thing su Morgen Mea

radio statm i fan bose, Iot

lu turight.

-R said he had not sen fence

since 11651 Papich dedig a may

R In stats or any the he

?, Hany unit deat he must des

states & case. Of itua good care,

Is they file the ta aunt st

in turn Is have the cret bull s

stis not a god cam, tell tang con e

ilys tu will wall it and.

10,

Havy indepent at nate tes

intent was min ti

SECRET

---

## Page 55

00022.37

He had mt the lines rad ju type

One thu wey we had hand the poten

8 Nev1944

Hany is soure

Re cald on dot 22nd 82714 but

Fang refund to steve an hi atten

-R wonderd of Ngong tell it

when long a had told

4 Octan

Osten s Hay at luch,

R quoto vehement, bater ie

Maker is decay make would " sell anyone

In the liver to pited his annut..

- Dor had sent ya new clippey

Ne use a banana, 1 said leake came

i Sen. Tenudi are we di was shed to

Eyes cry Malua

28 April 11

oferian in an indecal de had a cent

she had den in rated in an quire aquites,

wells sed he had told inge

win. Ape del an ery sipens.

= in dan sue upset tell if he

Mile: 14421-11021

an. chunt sure

---

## Page 56

5-No insoled of merson of te tpit as

o menu discuned tatter pluses a p

for hai vips fun.

word that there didessert.

fun Minpu but 114 timo Mater Other

3. Cland A lead defeat rape tin

denting; 11 yo il girl, auto demis

for fag to regue. A putty penise

for Mehn It here his funks.

r. Paieved Matan lued die some

had more than a passeng acumany a

NSA,

Angn tight as Pat Cayne fu

9 Knew Grey any warm a the

10, It's eviden that pete ta depa

nand about ponie of buy chemife

cal castro piget but pa come tone

I tempy intones

SECRET

---

## Page 57

002230

fendery Matin

that mill wind a Hary.

2 quite

Manen repund o Magan a deal

wI Straws dog, a pund fund of tary,

ru miles appence-

3. Finstewald. hed idented same

anam, eto a name to o Chine,

Cal, Rewards,

In the cace of fam id Dutter

o a capple of this technas new anone

of Makers tie in a, Handine.

31 May/P44

Malu aded if" sam pant" we in

she wend

17.

ni organ had and Mahen that he

en that And cherts this guest appea

for T.V. He that Made and out pet

enight hike word, then fry see

no, Fern rall would proced

13.:

Mann cans a

SECRET

---

## Page 58

UNUIILI

Sam there a seur of cunties

hat wee

mund at dur requent,

lu then 1X, NFK Was ordl

hufed on the bad geound that did up

to manui wrote da top dee

dormit punted to guide Dest

what stred a bada o

edestro

6007241

SECRET

---

## Page 59

p3

1407 Bibi Ret

00022,42

SECRET

Each phase is a

rluten of the there

a! Vun i Hryut190),

All if the cal pale schnes puis

to tag 1940, no one pande excee,

we and out as dis creds cares

atry вні кузення

Augunt 1960 to 1tahlel

slots aggren tuned; rewdy

i deart some auspiciparis de one asper

Abort o crete raine cuttiny entit

i!!

April 1961 16 1a4119a1

Mayor schene digen Heyão was

Lave 1981 to 1ato/142

Particular scheme Masterded an

Late 1162 until Nell it 193=

appie some ben ty to; revives

is til 1902. Were final terminen cauf, 907

Drew Pearson

colemn of 2 March 1967

MuT a repert c77 plan m1963 te

bi team actual tanad in (us no pills

---

## Page 60

5. Es sipidactor audue is om

aruntns, tende o uentue togat

thot de tain wawed dhu dece

cualatyt er duceen o, zeao muea

m7 dot ,9ac neeet.

Ait. Fend Repat weupur Yluh pee

Ruly -Trapranto

I thee Peperid

AssAssinsim buaas

5 ageat ruraye rice wenged yoot

Iake uense 7o plesus to teddl eato or

bupising such detin, Jerce of the

inenages ula ed to the sane speraten

Te other toot siating to sepaiato

nogozals; there is no indieiten

Eidt an o thee piaial sits te

renet oy ETA, intari

IMIRONCSlLll4 294441942

and was tenkd 3o sputit, the har

Hen sported as neve an netery that

he was a aft agent

Htis namu no

iien to taane,

Thrat oit were

0002243

SEGRET

C/PV

---

## Page 61

AM LASHA

C0022,44

SSC

SECRET

1) infence that ASt a canto agent

Appy. - i character of ru wishes

insin y pen Candy, Whso Mine

iMi8s+l/ to fell that de had ay toughe

,., thine was talet for hinto

ught or heat!

Over a year paired bithin freet

194.2 ad Sept 1963 shen he wit went

widen shug that he link mit it the

jot, sin in there diete

5 Sat ad 22 NoN1943

At 91?

Mann for brace is Matt.

Fied pet he 134 In cave Cula, he was

due to his potental.

SECRET

---

## Page 62

SECRET

calle m Soph, th says.

000225s Sotaly spoill hat who will alwap

de a contral jabem,

сим

esperaro alendo recrut

may tar pid para sucentive

at that sont, whe 19215244

ivao ano penra as a pero o cucipar

ana dividias de pane en

o intura a tha canta Sept 314

"T fact remer that whateus

Mena HMLASH// may dave expursd, de

Fitapuld metry stall se repare

SECRET

---

## Page 63

0002246

SECRET

14 NoN IM WHe could hit But.

wer про стінаня вов ши

dad not ben quir

editical anistance, de cin undula

Invent

In essence de limit sas toed

there would he no Us. sugart until after

Ill fast, and thm al if he as

accusat. Is hill that

"Way not seem

a My nause was in weed to sens

about the ma hew of a good, it s

dre revant to the queen of want

LAsHi was told and hot i understo

I CONTAY TO

the statement in

That i was hot cher has

19 Noris Fiterall dund tele

in million be gener e

---

## Page 64

SECRET

0002248

could, if he sequented it, inndule..

lugh pover refler co/ segus..

19 NO. Ink 157 PlE CIA be as

any to cult,

Requit is headpates to ash an

I diday for i more muthy.

pya sse speculats that He is fast

pocurn ravinem, not sugar

print

124

WINCIA

Is nife at that it yours

aju death a STR; no idea of 1127

my minenie

SECRET

---

## Page 65

SECRET

00022.51

a OFA trice (fult in en, 161 s agan eni

eary,902) siglue lithal puls i6

dor aborted s pille

hese trinished in Aril 1962 wus

Eld no in ten, had them sent to Che ober

Hes pitchd o Cula s retrait oo the senates.

'" While the events ducd y Teew

'essen die acer o are sabeat to terri

poched together as thi on ento sig,

any thmis ingrended"

Old, Duny the with of 25 fegt 100, donnels

Maue to" sam fold" at a muter on the

Intine hu. Holl, "boll said he hat a man

as a aurierte cula y made inanans there.

still deray in cue a

Trien war niches

---

## Page 66

p. 24, Desputo the

Stem that a pasen in leguie

fome ward be mest deserade, whatries

alty prepared and delloud was a soled.

in the for of sode pills dat the saye

00022524 saccharine tables.

Cument. Dancine win fare

apposed to the use of pulare sud

got secure the chance of suerials eepe

mario de negliged Gran sell a purence

por a bind pel reat could lu pot sett

cartes ford and duit. Tray. (que; the crue,

we on freck mith a dessere tan

and we deals.

carro an insanely

of a sort that would once heim to seephen

a positen to were hit sake fon the

gentle funts, ded serve lot tost some

of in cme and needs to meny

upted to o mall that the pelle had de

I have beept the gills for a couple of wides

fre wury them. Hardy to the goushee,

Cat got

---

## Page 67

SECRET

i He tot refuge ent. the Jenegate Frabare

0002254 April 1 9141

It would sum shi, stat the

Ant his aran to cartro

p30.

the cler hostia see bites toe

the undu standing that they pand duk

"stempts to reif these repots were lnsens.

pil tray appraa sauna and told turn

That i had chins who wane to do cron wi

Carto o hut thy Naul pay the very for te

Rinali said in a loyal truen de med a

master de could a would neva devilge

The arteen I

032 Posal gave the jills and many to de, io.

esall dealt nether ne a pseudonym, Litte

---

## Page 68

p.22 Evade recall somedy atur and

sto torted in a intaurant figuta

Is canta..

00022,55

p33 (O'Cull beliver that the wres

sentry gang on behen Aul 1941 ad Sel

but he cannest new wall what, te agrees

coth Bill Arney that when the gerate was wind

Aji 1422, Hey fort over a"

gony operam'

p34, O'Call biles to must have reved the

pulla, but as has as guo weren of bery

done so.

p 49,

Resile needed. Can. sTray in the

ust fuse as a means if estably antecte

inside Cura. He did not need them in the

stand place becare he had Varma, tress,

Rescle did not take the prcaution of money

ligher ups in the sondent that he was

worting in a tantry insideed to be the

avate danain of seme che in the

syndicate)

Game 19/22

Hey said thy aprened to

have no spect pan for hally carto. they were

same, I'm sprats to tell canto mant

ise, thy of the wism the scraped were

sahe the cter. schas using the pills.

---

## Page 69

SECRET

00022.56

Havy never haired ther name oraghy

about them.

He and with Haw that Mothy was

wakening and that there are not

much chance that Mythy are

puses AFK, I treat that if you tie too

do busener with regayed cun-with gauste

Han will dr the Atay Dred bun fin you do it?

Test quites Edward to apiers ti

this vas a remate request.

Dible. the Attry Ginal cay of the minis

is the rend of that buking he dy twader

insens is i Ardens of the this affice.

lites Gunter Dest bely that cinend never die

have that the

test in this Gutia Diat dine t

Gas might be slimi

orat bart afficed if an rese of

ime tame in 1960- try befree the abatene

buggina incident

---

## Page 70

• 0002258

ULUNEI

20 Fugut 1143 Claps Dally Nes

FBI agent tailay ben who allegen

says:

i in i felt sure me ilme?

I'm one of you.

CIA lut

Gren pitred as bir aproad y

demy

AMLASH

of Barati mil, ry in He

-DR quit apart fam sothy fay tat

sigi a nut pact.

* ''' Hay wi

admir

officer, do not wholy suprt there relatis

ле інз spud losth dise and male

for call io lotta

55714 Segit 1943

I sell be interges your faid again?!

when you should tell tr,

"so thy dint.

---

## Page 71

20022.59

SECRET

mare the tup! I want to get ance

pan poures стринь,

192 Fandy sup that, whide cutela was

aroes to do away with castro,. Cubela

Was not wlag to sacrifice the on by in

schane for castros: What Called valy wren

wess high-bered, silenced rifle w/an

a/:

Fat we could denise see techical

mean o doing the jit fat hould cot

cause him to lose his an tiler

the hy.

The Press Perison Stey,

Palded Derati

Hu Facts to ik Ken then

d temy me have I not ture te was bruth in Phase

Tie offer twas are the was not

so liked on Phase 2

haverna; me stll in pum

his then a or wee may

Ho p that the new dredy

corres aid excitin de thes

мт вір нyam

SECRET

---

## Page 72

sim. He is repored to have

was ales statet ly castello eno

Tu Plene enter deat

intigan. We tom no

Eat bemsin mot wi, Render

0002260

SECRET

---

## Page 73

1917

9 May1947.

SECRET

Beamdore axpanry t se una di ague

i ravzn d

jla Asaraia a CSA2pl

8 tazs do lu usd is niremino: Cantra laauon

allges de hes dtls segred y-Cott rezs

y if sen. Rtt auting dipun buee

to wost wth Cuten лни. у Сиро.

dus mine its antedo fe-leerd tou

ruch dttte nevu tire o thuyme crs

iitt de enl sauns pnemun

0002261

SEGRET

---

## Page 74

li find claimed"

Request.

SECREI

0002265

- Richart Cann

alue

Rebut Scull Caii

Richard Scal gette

DOB.

Uct 1931 dunjo

FAT

menus

- 21 Dec 1 960.

18. gaw.1.961

identife sidreds.

- Identif of WI ROGUE

samelly joyin

incendal of Ayerey:

- RF sect called on 4 Me 6.

to open mino, aluay hun erfecle

of 2. Mac. 6?

15 Marce 65

Bango in Madrel o clams group

in Giba...

Mag.

Jaild in guy èz

1 Manhal

Arests in Cupe

w/ Artine mutings

SECRET

---

## Page 75

27 UNK3.

SECRET

0002266

Ocrime interven of Malen is My 199.

contaried in matual pierans

weared f wever on Stungs.

- duays Tut

Dec 28, 3111973

- Cari

-- Fall 1960, intert in duayo

= Apul 194-2

miss.ed CR

- 4 qui liz deperted

= 19. buy 63

- 12 Septe3 DRE Amn purchase

= told to got out of picture

disaggere.

-

Fair Play met ai Fed63 ah 90%.

L.Ho jundaed refle March 63

-stry.Suopran 2170.in dego 1943 Arel.

SECRET

---

## Page 76

SECRET

6002267

/:.

Ramen Den Festerey Dominguey

DOB 2 may or 5 FEl 1934

Rolando.

Marener PRojar

PO 12 gen 1918

3, tucano Never

4, Jose de le Tumento

5. Oose Quintera

DORO 300+ 45

прит. з тинке

Enard Perpnt Morgan DOB 2e May1913 Stiac

SEGRET

---

## Page 77

T. AB B

12-9-78

SECRET

00022.68

M.ngan

Cevert Scent Cleance M 25201951 pruse

Amended s Hymend Macle 195/ts metede

приннкм ни pan ya " cot ant; lege adu

i DDO stauld make deum whites to

wlace infs.

Reank Int #591 722

wall. Comes.05 fil 473.865-

- Corp. Grant Bahas Develre Care

w1. Albert Whir ant 6433. 974) am

goln P. Roulett 66439 997)

Салі.

caine

-1964-45

-SECRET

---

## Page 78

•9 FEB 1978

SECRET

0002269

B rally

stipauli Meir

Parl Ayers

36.4.1

Aglen At Bama Flu.

Apod. 12,1901 Pesk

Sul. 27, 1971 PoX

Garage Air tunin

сатриг. у тит 41.

Big Fader

SEGRET

/ram-sipes

inky he.

Card Sound M. ed M. Freshed

Secued.

Aspira

Datt

1.0 Aug.1944

Refite 23826ÜDDP|WHISH

CAse No. 366085

Requist For Permud totin

seal No.

364085

Natese

Separten Rotem t5. Parent SUC

DP1S

U's Full Other

Bruuch

Resista

12-1544

---

## Page 79

SECRET

60022.70

ZR/RIFZE

He cable rapic beany 721 RIFLE t

be almit in sealel envela to cly

FI/DOW. D, 15024 BIL

onl

- Purely agend § DD Plane

tary

19 Fed 19412

Because of sinteve nature of ther

pacer o constitues au thiato for all tase

%. Eye oil

Rech. D Helms.

Hard wrath notes

Morgan-Reli-Mclue-Garun

Machin Car Vegan

mugans fach hitem

1) Puerto Hugàs

2l Augas to Aprelal ( B68)

31 Mulür to taü ar

4/ Lato as to tatt da (Cutermisste curs

that as to red;

---

## Page 80

SECRET

60022.71

Relli of stort in Sent de

Maliu to Rodel to Granceral

Taylor beane chair num 9765

in 9 Aug liz

Kush, a Nara, Taylor, Brend

owen, oil parents, ramsae,

mann, mcche

Rept at requity DCI, conged

to 76m 23 maich 67

all notes, o oth decend suce safes

dested 23 M27.

Fum

or a funn

Sulech! Wit Isnt Greet

Frid account y mines experkd in

6907.

---

## Page 81

SECRET

p?

Il Fel 1961

31 Jan /961

14 76 69061

26 Jugh 1961

thug

12Fel 1 161

C0022.72

1920

спито курист

995

e Lato 196z untd wellerb 1963

collapse a manorso, aqquine coline

that was per i eg1900) er

Two other plot nee repuden tis

but we ingraticates rathy came ton

be 18 August 1962

munny of spend trep tements!

wheren McNamana Wreck Set a

liquidate of euben leades.

Landal

31 Juj64

Das cum al Special Gop of a Centerne

Thall cur:

It had refuses to find sit had no sin.

and sectur

ren Ruler

p2

Gongalaz Calanca

Mach 1446

---

## Page 82

SECRET

00022.73

Lato for 1900

iwards, o Спи, Bussell of peeks

hunveil, a drouds then heeld

Han Dulles a Cereal Cabel,

male called O Call, prented dut

Purall seat shay bold's goe

Anna names)

Zoe a comer to Outer made

anarments there accult to

17 Fl 69-Catered annies Ogency

30 Japa-hast corns clined

Techna Hug. TSD

posen to be admented i a pin Clich Concle

Rossel sait was suppled to lay Paces

6) baitial matud in tequid or (3) degar

41 tindaly

029,

Maich Apal 1901

man

ligh up in eile merent. (Shena

---

## Page 83

SECREI

60022.74

buen Vaine

а 21 Пес 190) Тву тино. и ужидник

financing cuten actres to ne ten dates

1/18 lany,941 annel le with these

salines; That hired Moss an a Pend ren

of ay enrolinen Cule,

24

tmack(937) 1144 mE Quine

and to

Roselle to delen it Estimati

списат as per Sc жижи.

taken to.

and lus pasterpon in synalent

plan her toppint inset.

peeple wis bury:

1. J. O-original man to pacin

2.

AV-

3. Son-in law of HV.

SECRET

2/pV

---

## Page 84

Phase 2

SECRET

6002275

Hany breed by a hung y Bussed

ni Fil 1961 in chinest 29th a gened

stand y capabily for i teetie acron

Hang had aunt dend protein

wo Arald Silver Seday Got hit

loft parties pustay cut in to cula

Kelves trued on gened encept list

wor m angoing Cuts plots i o5

25 Win taur an ase

Intensely to devel a cogately to enter sola

8 laid nap caurich)

to reen syndient resen

Unrelated - Helms puts Hang in

change of Agencep Cula tark fice

Felly Much le z

- Maricer Hang take me destro

- Hang rew-

came to then of castro oraties

IReltze dum meant cartre

2MPV

---

## Page 85

SECRET

0002276

(penal handa castooperaten

offin was any of are beery deser

-Rend (0224-1974, 24 Bulls)

show tener of a stentre state

a 21 Apel 44.

no indicam in ta fell that the see Aon

Edwards.

- No actres offu Bop until,

Hary met Ross i attried fill az.

- Edwads of enter us RFK

Hey - took mr a joy" seats.

sence he deed plan or gettery presen

toà fatente castro restaurant tumues.

Whe denied to these did Fonted and a tinted on Phase ones

Correll Menda "sometimes gray on"

---

## Page 86

SECRET

Ape fl Agrees

0002277

Aary met up Passell, O Cmull

- Ocmull pastil Mihen Mere

Ilary sap he waid have cmended

Manur; saw tem social me or force

appu 1947 men try come to teen, not

aa 52 wen bey sent to buli.

trife i did not menin sater won hit front

pus a Cared our & june he wan

lu was asia Pisto Almara

s' wnell gita

all primall

win Hay to it are altho he cl

in Mini

tay specifed that tran. not I the

or to and phans puter

Resell with that ran did hum

what was for on, I repted nothi

Man- "Too bud

18/ Macco- unlie a Vasociato Rend

contaot to luma.

SOCKEL

---

## Page 87

p49.

un and y the quartin,

0002278

sund rod to Bary.

With tulf

spit, 10e

6) ditorires

i/ 20,30 скл

Hary shawy unt i Hawl,

$/ 20.48 ам;

s pur tuck in faiy dorpr

do Rene, O Crudl.

Shack hot aware i

•untos used regulus y castro.

Than son

segat 1142

Han san Roselle in Mann an

2-11 seph.

f militat men anseged to sentinos

Sept le 2- Zania3

Fany in Man. 22720-650

Renelli 271050-0po. po. ma 3mter

up wad for pacco an

1 Pere nel Mi a 1-14 Fit Ket no e nn o bert

as if deddo. Orest how tare lit this

SEGRET

---

## Page 88

SECREL

15?

00022.79

And May li?

22 Hango Riselle defore Hary Eye

for here:

Peopl who hew

Bruce Cheever (tainy da19621

Reno ni Want ode

REF "all the way! PFt agred not i

pascue wortap case but want t te

tu muty via a phan wu; menn

No trufery a Melon, Center, is Helma

REs not told that Phere I had

begun, that I had pette s are in lett the

On 14 May Or Aary frogs Helmer,

adver againt beta holmes fun

carter.

Wrath i touch the pol

is not going to he used

amant

REti secretay could on 4 Mach a?

to attain Edwad memo, He luero

SLURLI

---

## Page 89

SECRET

0002280

appreneg wanted to chech dis reder

of what he had ben beft up,

Helmer had lurch W) RFH

o altered him to read mins, the

din not have a capy,

1954-55 Malue hered f Neuros

to offact onassis contol oy faude oil stupnes

World at top the oy US. o Butta gert

o mer at least one wi Nexen.

Amne rept that deny repeati

wibary Стиало,

- Marun said he

minut buy his attry is Minsure

SECRET

---

## Page 90

10-11 Hear 62 SECRET

capentagers Vani used teases"

o cubela inside delimina

14-23 Arent 42

03

03 Cula, Tepedino, Wannett,

Earle Wilman, fem Maded; met in Pecu

Culla genin s/ni traincys

suppler, shan a demoten demitat,

Refuset to he gilgraged.

( Munms caller

that it plysici

eliminate meison be gerin es

осланое, Hearstess strong ann the

no plipical diminatin missino be genis cubela, te

5=8 seet 43

Brayil- met gWaiumgh

Tepedmor Nestor fandy its beeme

case oper.

af, were,

Afial a potal censorship,

That lught of Mann Gain Doey

tum sent to want to

14 Seph 43

SECRET

Tum Bujil Curela plento Parca

I was grays tell carto ofte the pat

6/TV

---

## Page 91

AMLASA SECRET

0002281

9 March al

03

Jack Sewer mel w, Cabela

I arrangel of carlos

stevown where he was ma doced,

Cubila and leader oy DR

19 tofull Batta, Nester Sardy - care oar.

28 Mackles

Both Cubilas Chile wand to

ax furame cald og an repent

That Culen pole aware is cutler..

Unse to duct? his dyewere plan

cameror,

o Calila.-

Oter two trides are can more rebelon

Helpen 14 legst al

mufry.

SECRET

Lucia Echevania Bianic toes

to ident's want to defert.

ZI/V

---

## Page 92

SECRET

would stop in Pain to see Feptes

0002283

22gener942

Tepidino agroald FBI in Mani

m di gun modo inte thas Cubela

world to defer. ThI sent e likiel

mino to clA serice thy hun Tepduo.

to le a ott arch.

8 grey 42

Tepilwo dissateofed w/ C1A handy

30 guf-a Segut 4z 03

a Jewther in Nyc o foch ment te

scruita in pia not alping,

hill castro, carte Potrequs, sfrutt b.

7-9 Acquettez

SECRET

---

## Page 93

SECRET

That he was taliy a vactin,

00022.86

380t63

101

Sandy arves in Pairs to mus

cutele she had matter Tepedio an

My shut he din want to entence.

Feen inter being Cult under survellne

10xt43 Saude Calls That Cutea

Cure gong to to an alert mantra

even wout ts sapnt,

zadcta3

I got approval fam tel me.

Frot states he ford cutela tat

4s naul have no put in attentin

Notto vana fu said enta

14 Nw43

reter we scopes inside Cata, on repuits

22Nor63

SECRET

sendy aims in Press m AN 22

but states de waul ant take its

---

## Page 94

Cult with him - SECRET

0002287

Cubela asted for a carli

ams i de placha Matter a

farm;

thy up mute, beare

8FK shot,

fardy stated he reard an

op in cave fim Filerald that boyfly

is "of" but nothig in AMLISH fell.

Dee 63

19Fe61944

IMWAVE 2E have a Cacher ai

plea in March.

Done m 17-21 Much 64 m

AMTRUNKIIIL

24 April 1944

Tepedino had ben hufd t

mut cart for ROBRIND mripy

Who his menge ton Culla.

3 Man 44-Fobeno saup Cabi wanted a silences

30 Auput k4

Arterne reard mps the Maria!

•That a group a dedit mende y destro

regene nunt do enterest duct

contact 2 00404,11rfnlesereks

schesto BLANCE romariag

13 Nw. 44, SECRET

Artime agrees to tall 78720571

y it tens out he as entet man

for intend durent prop. Arme

---

## Page 95

00022.88

OSCRET

Sidus.o

there is ALASA is day of desides

graup we can forget abrut operat

4 DeCh 641

ardy pepan a mens 15 6570 yo

рыул reps an Bless Artem dues

6-262814

archy net in Pair o

Told Us. cared not be invaded,

10 Dea 64,

Artemi din how nor Cutte

that c it in derest antent noth lac

Rather S45 centured is put dorto

men together.

wean i tap labels hands duory

a cauld do it thee Artemic.

2? Dec: 30. Dec (aline)

-attende

• Cubes o Arteme met in Medrik,

Artime ngot to fand tink Cutte

but mucen win gone lin ine.

Artme to one up to detecero

dent uph in Cula.

1Kl/45

ortemy sloy SECREAM ween ame

pm do lisit dre un in Medud.

---

## Page 96

12 Fe665

SECRET

0002289

in medrd,

4 Mach 5- Cubelani Hasena, saure

is fuend of tepedinar loo telelems him

15 Madlo5

Raped Fear Bangs Derali

auver in Midid f Cula o infosed

To a stam-opens.

Oute Close frens of Cubela; s clane,

to de i fau a grapy nutty leader

pany to elems certio.

on 20 March 194, contaid Ias wen lupe

FRIM 3 Genias.

Espunastalt he had vend lat

pina puind in onus lug time

nunge fun cutle we went it die

HOLA

SECRET

110,400

Curl had want mey in Par

---

## Page 97

6002290 Tepedia 200 in Ny",

23 gune 1905 puts sent are

tenny coped, chay pro far entire

matter, fra cressure, seniots

ASHA

(Mach de- Cabela, fain anesto for

activities co. cIt

Jose tris Gangue Gallants, are Blew Remany,

Jean Alsina Navaro, Confere

Its appeary- Guillems Ginhil

Abrary, Hege Heners Udy

nt Us ansary in Miles.

32

Cubela mut no Arteme in an

mited. 1965.

Arten sent ballege to 4s to get

telaps sight o selever, Delud fo

Blanco Remary sho delive it to

renaly ballanet in to cutle the

My lupere he us plated.

Sey in culla vender are

9 March 44

carts sent autonal litter

that

Leathe sentuce not beast.

so Machke

aw decere it was buring my hands

z/TV

---

## Page 98

Topole s Fillin Geng the oyened

c00229tle dun to ment I tet nos haue

the caurgete tell tim

arminatl

Tral sudes an fund to teepto

wy Arteme No menta ye Mah al ren

No hert of posson pen No 63.

special

Is ful detail inaul bum come cia,

saria in pure i exeno semine n cune luce.

2 budi les Spread Arpi fare,

infine lo regest 62. l proluy e discita an Pearsen

il 1170 Sta: Dean Rush, Aliti Glise, Fores

arava Muten, Rechut Condan, Rost Hurwith

descurde

whit Sare

Marvel Tayler, Me Jery Bunk (RFKArent)

Defuse:

McNanan, Ou palest, teminityer, ham dale

CIA - McCiu

sanry

USIA-Rdward Muni, Donald Wilson

Sey- thoms, Panott

camit Meno Chety.

tardate mãto min ou 13 Augot

Io Hary, Harwitch, Hares, o Wison Which

---

## Page 99

SECRET

Probay Perei not we a hugh teres

Icin

Scmal intrend Mahis in May a 7

o moto a report.

2- Never hial of Chare 7 pm Ricele

0002293 of aren

3. Riselle steered to Morgn l Freenspun

4.- Make suspect Onell a date prepa

5. Rosele dumboy Mart; Morgen en

Vegas vant 'induces"

f- vorrism

i machine trich a Rosal, so was Mann

Our iniqueen that Greenspen to in volut

in cho envusaten:

?1=2

Plaini sorence

Is 2014 Miless

It is had tune o odwa said he foed Resell

Peasan stry senito

ryan. 7xt

shut Kened

treat

shere.

Carld he bay if if, sovere

Probay firm

a grunes.

State Dept meting + mat. own

Infura: Reselli denly to recho

---

## Page 100

SEGREI

pur raudes sugert ulited o lutan.

operatién:... A portin excesed pro (A

cupy o meno was includy elemente

0002292

At bust 5 people in handal sae

manuten is part fit.

30 July 1964

Жов Вин, Vara, Meline, Threas

a e o rio final, os e sincer

Oites fersug in secy,

n Maria pos a arrana

carta.

Prece was 150, no 01.10,20 4 pen.

Cuban excl: Gise Aris "Pepin" Bosch,

Bacale Runi, I. Copuno Bo,in, the apunae

natus po as parecem Retira matriga

19 sugnt 6.4

DAIl MaChul to Bundy re

FoI interen no all particanos

SECRET

---

## Page 101

SECREI

0002254

Patletty hes not men it corce?

a). Peaioon hae nor yet uoed the

pille o thaot of sTald Dept murry

6) bauun hes not reveald pellene; C/A

shaud he pinenerry derpayt wen de does

dli P uerto Recain in rustrdy swillle dyate

Pearsen stey in cheas s detail yfoue

mnf in lhere tt te 3 mon tamn,

g'e pet ion it bust titt- thar wherin no

ettever. nitue in Spteady te sten

p127. We ds noh lur Hial Certei astay

jud is udodo, dot ve de tuno.

hst sheve were sich plit agent Cater.

unnappels, it new ageaes sa un.

pas ano seno te.

3124 4944-1003 Mat Tat i Salen Tana Pnlià

ama uas grasa tus. leps. bery upulo.

nayter en yme tea in ton don s

tm wiald tave eoanen doeas dape

shu Gft eones nisni de was pueale

Is taN enn du, n des

ahal seme t nolun te F07 var Cuad

tim in 1903, Erali aiaer o tu dapit an

il CRLresan Wt Tintans laun.

p 13 ililech +319971917

cirmanta tos hise et mer a baeel

---

## Page 102

Tal A

SECRET

00022.95

241 py 75. mino

4, 5T died parin pelle to agent clo

When thes alting failed, Tsupe

anter conditio (carcle me BFP.)

- Makur foney contrach hope a see te

- Roselli envictini

Na 1967- ilyal entry

Dec 68 : Fini des

Senate Saff 28-9an0175

N0838-73

9 June 25-

4, Repent to. M as well Tagon make y

Pick Bissill it-so Dee 1971

DDO

(allege canto aman)

DД8.

6. WIROGus operated aliases??

f walt elder

SEORET

---

## Page 103

Missing

SECRET

5 Mey,967.

0002396

Bill

Habery unhort papich to

upon't to Papil some intert he hear

"gargoter" and offer lei cogs to 887,

Ke expand to Capich

=-

Ide May 4?

TabB

Asterite Fared Colen:

7 Aul 77

Morgan as to dal Age Cera 95)

as a lanyer "cut out in matters of

3 twant Piergent Moran

DTD3 24. May1913 Stoma

AKA - Reched Scalette 08 357-22-333

1964 Texarkand Tex Rey No. 17169-TT.)

In May 1964. Bolden refused to

George. Howard!

Chicajo Amucan fm. 26 No:1963

in column Dal Diay eMigges Day.

---

## Page 104

TAB

7

I. septap:

Gausen a guist of Maro Marinio,

to marcello,

To Chry. SRS

sife. Cren

9.007 1947

Info re mesterig dr Fair Pla

undr Rechard Criley (4 346114)

Leads ob tand fin.

Ralp PoREZ 644426

Speed 456199499)

6002297

SECRET

---

## Page 105

*Ste

9 Aegut1976

SEGRET

6002298

Tab Bo. c

Gave contail in mistic pera

reland for revies restenges.

21 May: 975 Period Brecheriti

W. Artlur Ballette o Fid Armi mist

112. fon 1141 Makurtle FBI he

lu win dachse

2. A Any is gamen Canteen per a

13 mach 1901 uport.

3.22 MaQl FAT mimo ie cuteines

w/. Col. Edwaits

who said de enterte

dandutie efferto in Cuba,

10.. gom1974

Miny: Chip Wiser.

Hemphen Deve

sudg! Fattere transen, he chue daen

Dec. 1973

Richned s. Chini

4272141

DAs och 1931 in duago.

---

## Page 106

Left rice sprint in 1960; Bacurio

Ladnaper.

a getfum

CIA confarts

A. Fall:1960

SECRET

00022.99

chrajo area:

В. Gun. k1

we a Mr. trougarady who was negot wy

C. Sumes ki

1. 00k1941

Cain mott to Lohman fom Parano

fly his surver

Cain make uname want to bee

up. women cott Wawn Deanin Merestin

harcher in Cliens, LA when be and to

povide trainst mister. Gert Agents

F4 Gundez

Reported fm. mies in traded wass

warting

6: 19. Huget 43

Lah Share Dren Belie

---

## Page 107

SECRE!

0002300

He would the to work over ser

for CIA

cain worked to Cook lf Ship

see in centert wich Cuban in Creepo

area o would provide into an underes

auster of intris patel Pairs Sierra

#, 24-38 tuy 1943

Can wife the Student Dereoty,

a Char exce grap in plam

Let peday amen

- Mero Cordogos mint en

'DRI pell who hud quetend

told thin to get out of the jokere

1.1967.

FBI invertyaty Chun an a pit

2:.15 Apul 19.72

Chin utend t Clicys fem Merco

a vaures occasines stald de was CLA

M. 16 May 1172

Fasten Aircres pot ed Chen an

SEGRET

/PV

---

## Page 108

SECRET

27NW63

0002301

Rout B. Pe Lohman

Fair Play pe Cale Committo en

Yet is met at 903s. sailing lie.

under ducting m chal Cily, Sage

chiggo dapte, Assassinan y Our duced!

L00 perched refle in Medi 1963

supr Frece das not

at to miny wu stiny suspici de

was in clicis in Apil 1943 s responde

for firing ta speca y U17

4, Shuy Olgeried In like FBI so

had

"opedy and The this on

Fair Gly for Cute, FP. yy develep

Could wak sout! "that eat in! 963

pr. Fur Ray

15. Auguel 4]

Sandy Swith

Checys sun Times

folleny up a lead that he call eit

I unit funer wad to get me for die

Said he dd not chen nip to Rd bethink

---

## Page 109

0002302

SECRET

Brechenrife Men to Dedi regress

1. Pusas in Sec A of paiget 3 is.

contained in me of volunt o milet

2. Setm B lots 3 Arueen. Alger,

entactes minimal

3.

Mafia in as to gerarent

Denou have alady intered a crind

why is retered.

Tad.C

"Taum Don Festerey Doinquy (shorty.

DOB 2 May. ox 5 Fil 1934

2. Rolando Masterer Roguo Amity

DOR 12 JUn1918

3. Luciana Nieves ( shry.

I Jobe. De La Tomento (shirty.

5. Jose Quintana Do 30045.

ratef a nephew l marge 2. Radl

4. Jaspur Antons Cortergo DOBIs Junes

Maud Arteme

---

## Page 110

TABL

SECREI

14.

Macch. 1474.

muting as Teng denynes

0002303

Frank O naly upend tent to

Bof Mullen if the mulen Any

euse of a ental wester behn

Джем а ем на ексу ноВ сі. спекот

Hunts Millen met mi Pair demy

nachael Alon

- When rule dead is here sens

emsteman.

- Hant guadd. O' taly pr an

- Horsten.

- Fauf. az interenten wl Farnel os

IoNS re pinbe deportatu cy francers

Osbom, Angleton, Rocca, s Heron

SECRET

---

## Page 111

1977

Regort

SEGRET

0002.304

AMTRUNK

IJesigriet fo ienuy states nae dessfletes

purnnel ini aimel frcn in. Culae.

Baf63, Nedor trtnio. Morene Lopey

8.kmrque.

Cayards Robera diveled Lenirudo

Han t sieitmo Castro.

Mreno difut in Apd 961 o arsc.w.

Lorge Vorky,; Cutan afgen of Poleti onger.

Presamug. Usse8 7hen eri Polich Ar Face indr

Bretish thrund MaredaCutansduwei

Miani' May al.

aujis sortani o thimevited (6h) Ct ainge, ines

to mu anú Staim o it is hunn a tntRunt

Nerl. pagund. vey for o b figt es

had 3 soruce induny buin

Moceno in Oet 63 was wnerod for

AmtRunk dieto indercutene le aas jryte

apped. i...JFK thn Volols fzula.

Had somme cintacts but no cid acton

capatslit; In 6s buns Pig auutd.

Sgules Volsg toch Polihi, met in Cutre

àn 195-60

SEGRET

Jooe Ricaido RABEt Nune

surpered agent ne difeted Declezs

joind Aontrant, utuend to cubaen her ma

---

## Page 112

SEGRET

0002305

x in 85 95 expeltato his fenny: Amerted

I gwen 38 go dus pet in 67.

as carly as July 19637

posity

ImTRunk might has been an ign

Cuten then form the beginny: Of coper was

Ny Dady News 20-25 1975-4 Pal Motel,

- quotes sturges in duds natu allegis

includy using fuse date t bit caste, I

work:W. the eritresalls/.

y extend interigan, wise quipm as i neel betr

Trice of seamt mao muns en 1975

noting conectim behn Stuge y Potheren in 26e

citing. FB.P regorts.

(made is coyersten il Daily Nur Street

Giancana.un.FB7mino.1800t1940

indicated he had met as arasson-to-be.

o pill an Castros fool or denit.

Incé c/A gille not achel Feb en,

seems that mot had their on pan

---

## Page 113

FRE

Vuena

C

0002307

21 Deo 1160

- mao synt for selle

FAJ 18 Jan1961

X ramy sme of that sipport

Striges could have lined of chidi

cou au. Orto selled in More in 19605

FBI. rent

14. Augut 1964 would a state me y a

perm jailed in Cute wy Test.

Other Progosals

1/ 1ays975

uban exile pho came to de a

was qven a rifler a munto tell chero

Tred to enter Cuts 3 Tenny fault

2. My1122 Andurm Column. c

Antonio Vecians

On 3 occascin l Dec1980, Juy 62, Hell ac

he pissed to Crs the Carameng Casto

In1978 uport he mad a pisod,

on HID ensplence.at an users fost.

5. Agent

See menages in 19661.

---

## Page 114

FORS

so prote same plan

0002308

Much.1941 AmBRINGs

Plan to sabota eric coy on

Javana s het Castro at Sort Palace

2..29 Mnch1941.

some idea with iffinate

anime m 30 Mack but no. commenten

anarnatin

3. 5-Apil 61

9. spel an nudd milita aid.

a) AmoRone infiltald seved feines

Git; s not mented in Meteren Birt

6) AMCOAX // bott quan ni

c) ImPut! touch we omBrne

AM PANICIT

1 mentina in Motiver-tron, Dre

38gr sentuce,

All 3 peaple sented guer to Byps.

none had ars assination mission, Ou

AMBROM mended. Thut!

06,24

chaned he hed place to mrim win

30 daye offu belly Fide

Reply was that into was

untrues.

Moratori) unturn,

z/N

---

## Page 115

TabI

SECRET A

5. 3 May d1

- fom a mende of Revolutios

0002.309

Recrry m wement. saying thy Nal fry to

hie.. Fide Fody"

- Keply was "Lay tend"

AMLASH

Dejects nation that AMLAS a Culan agent.

..

No cantact between Auget 1902 and

Sept 1963

= 7 Seph 0 9 Lept caller indeest that

IMLASH is C

'spoiled. brat; hopeles as mid

allaned to recret his om colorts.

3oK V leaves inference tut Contras

speedito Dantarter at AML Ast leak

in his a led not to do to so o

he was reting to Cula.

he was repot as dilly unted tell ancie

"If something intery" Must

p26 S5C Fondl Rpl. SECRET

In 24 NoT Misco Statin Mopaded toa

Heckpent request for names if tran

contacts of austin sit passe in Mic can,

---

## Page 116

SECREI

0002310

Pugne wen to demen septiones

IMkASH. 11 name war incided.

But in reica to entart betra a mineter

of the

soviet embassy o a Cuban culter

attaci. NoT a regint of a trach detave

AM LASHI Ared tu Serer

"I" role- cleaf did not know de

ANKASH: 1143 anocater ciz.C27

Tall. 5

24N0043 Su Cuban Precuter Flig

sarate of Pen tend

John. wilson- Nudin

29.N0r63

be turned out to misan authories.

12Dec1943 CSC5-3/279,048 (C/W143)

Suf- WiSoN, Cantos goen

30gan1964 6565-31779,814 (GI/SEE,

Suy: Jack RuBy-L170

SECRET

20:

flard 1964 @567-31780/612 (5R/CST

Photo of individ chaf resend Lie

---

## Page 117

SECRE!

1o Gine (944 0501-31781,841 (CITRON.

Info re Ruly.

60ct64

C:sc7-316101446-64

Hes comment on 7 Plates Forally 7095

W.C Doc. 1054 Rules Accenta:

0002311

---

## Page 118

Xen d11111s

1977 Pf. Regat

SECRET

1 Amunti

0002312

dade me bandit, and in the un reputa

of laun deny austine neute tense

2 A stated these you SSe For Rept is ther

They

A central disture dy the Made c

This they should has pen plea

renew the sure du can pisan.

Le tel what is ant to

Fat men i pin thee in

---

## Page 119

SEGRET

0002313

rener de an evrurm en peccepeen.

ie provocaon dedede in 63-fem

suneauns,

cevon praque,

"I yhe sse Find Repst hes ilerea à.

endassuic instead cIA Geursad ceerig

asamit cube de regumy spacfi alenn,

Reviens ly Ageray -

Persono in shitrto trero detale of 1923

61964 opuatra for the nn juor an do

inger avartede, Vimy reunan verd

Btt has newe cndurted secde a.

iceuenio-

Cohig as" The Thtir end"

Ha sossitle chain y everua, wohen thys

itreortealt cauce -tne stutd, The teas

inrtuck no new coane ferug en tee

Mnasscnetn, altió' it see pertued the tee

ir new ane apeculten in faw, the

wewes som.ine sumeo selezae

a kuid ixucice an tupy te les

Hut oo ite mrociun re

nd tier

riar! hun aoes c2en

biidu stul Mau s ie

1as assinaimd iiees tenna inesreser

mmitme decone em sy astey y this

IeiiEt ( Eune nile doMau aere

cvil save berrae tast eaden

de ausaia set teuan test hal

---

## Page 120

ihtsst

SEORET

0002314

hel Cartrol lexened 0y% Hu SSC, un13

Frid Rejunt, fel wat his sey tay, Feyey ie

mal the TnList opuaim derene

pit the, yhuy for mede tu ssei pernten.

-seemed to the tadlored!

Tuo é

Agency had ne a fenthene whhastus

watt this man drey Pan Heunedys tye,

altro tu rSe Fiad tepat - outryy to puve

ito thesee -- das atto aotd io queento

Mrunre, Becauce Mu ee cs ducura

ao tensevels ien yu ssc tinai pepl,

itss tualed en a seprate arinttin te

haver at Tho D.

The they pociet is yhea?

uorto Par, Fenadp duth tho nilrace

H wurh bnLtstl rvar anrpanes de

wtttut substace, tal tro teand oif

hi could a0 dan ml

wet te war a

centar dat had not tlvelied to re peri

if an cndustnrg:

piy. New enreduster nn te Sepidictes Aguaten

In a seurs dy stru.by Paul SMesdil ni

Iu Nui jont Pely New's, gp Agu120-2571977

it nuadd staron in foisen

"Sl tued ansnahbschine nothed

danting a duasin- Caston opfire. I hat

---

## Page 121

StUKt!

0002.315

ace to the Pane Punten Eyrie, stuge

Orta. Freclute lum fo unt with the

"Nel Striges, has cland ma under y

accasina to lave den in emplye o

but had no devit ild instups

lastro. Te plun fuled bernen chie

Ast his possn, and with it hü nen,

in tale Geny 941, Min as per to diley

У Ти ралі ні в оні та ей ві втис

weo over win he to uu in the

1a2 alma to dare Cuta in Gotte 1944

and setted in Mont' in 728,1965.

and me 13 Tume 192,

sansan iten sre in Traente,

---

## Page 122

SEGRET

0002316

a conned beliver Stage and Partia

in 1900, ailing FAT upots,

Turn it Shuge cuto lose

caved deduce theal Staep and Career

wuld have tim are another

becure oy them in wet the

its wow te men headly the

manta (Mare torer that she did me

ully of stenge in 19ã0 de jon pelle

as ben given to vaure, sonne

Pil dead in is nase."

wide inges in induset

---

## Page 123

SECRET

0002317

Who put appened pur to By pays

maul to to chat the Cath

One of them, on?! Dee, o, indecide

for some o the cuban exiles, ye

atter repert, an 15 Gany,141,

suggest that vain wies one of there

Miny that support, attis this nea

not confined.

pot vi itin da por 150, s.

specularn stal wan Masterate

i pel 1142 care offer jeet shere

wens mutly already "ngoing."

It's..

found itself involved in prede

dina resources for indeputat

operains that de suricto

had under way.

In a sense Cit my han dem

ade is sugges an cura y ser

senaton.

6020

---

