# 180-10141-10266

## Page 1

180-10141-10266

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatio I System

Identification corm

Agency Inform ition

Date:

2/5/2016

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10141-10266

RECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTIO Y

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 13-22-05

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

HSCA

CIA

DATE:

03/10/1978

PAGES:

27

SUBJECTS :

HUNT, E. HOWARD

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: • IA; 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/02/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 6

v9.1

NH 47055 DocId: 32271070 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Leslie Wireman.

3GC File

E. He Hunt-Summary

3/10/75

The GC file covers the peccad from July 1, 1965.. to

June 19, 192₴

The file condous the following d' cuments and intormation:

O A contract between me agency and shhun eltective ..

July 4, Has

119880 per ansum.

employe Hunt us t

a years

amenu fur 06C frumcier of Contract personnel Division,;

dated August 3, 1965.

Subie Bitestion of royaltice ba

Cantract smpionee.

see ares mat tunt will apparently duelof

a coner as a incitera,.

Reavests a arzion regardung retention af

royaltie

sensit cas

raayeat"

@ memo far cher of coa suct Personnel busin from

otfice of General counsel, dated Rug 1a, 1965. le retention

of cayalties

"We belleue that Hunt is entitled to retain such

royalter without an alfset against lis Agency salacy " "Wehave

beea adused by me sena steens, insuppurt; that eatinen

cover does pat saclude

the cole of a writer; Hunts cover

fac status will angbe a light eat at au retired foreign sausce

otticer."

I memo

fram Chief, Covert Hauns Branch to Chief, Contract

Persannel Dissein, dated Sept 3, 1965-altie recommended deletion of

aftset paragraph in Hunts contrar- Acknowledges the Out opinion

wach determined tunt may retain hithout Agaacy salary oftset

any future loyalties earned as a rest kat his literary elforts based on

the fart cover does not include roéöf éöfawnter."

N 47055

DocId: 32271070

Page

---

## Page 3

#+1575138800959

B- mena tram contract emplaces Accounts section to:

Chief, Western Europe Dussion, dater, oct 13; 1265, Reports that

thora is no recacd of receipt of duty status eeparts tuc

Aunt since his 200 a July 1965. Reports are required in order

to maratári bis leave accaunt in accordance with the terms

at his contract. "

merno on bores af page ta Compensarco

and Jar Duisico from chief af support, we Divisions "Per

conversatin. with

mo Taas Faramesnies, ADDe

Outy status Reports outritted on Hunt. This should be

used as the autharity is castine his pay without

8, 1

thee reports.

@memo fur Dep. Director fur support to Acting Chief,

western Europe Divisio dated Noi S, 1965

_Hunt has

requested reliet on bowing costs. "e-suz to

the operätional

sensituity if Hunt's asgament in i request fur relief on his

housung casts was bandled by me thoraas karamessinean

15 sept 1965, me. Karamessures araraued his berns rambucçu

0a a 25/35%0 baus far the excess allowable casts unite,

but not to exceed, so do whove his juarters allowance.

@i mena, dated: Feb 1, 1974 la General Gayloris recallections

tak negarding his knowledge of the writings of mr Huot andany

official who might be aware of the circumstances of any agency

involvement in that effort. a. "', he became qware that Hust,

while in wh, was accomplishing a steady flow of say books, and

..that.securityapproval.was.not.terng-requested.on the

-manuscripts betore submission ta publishers. Gen. Gaynor

aduised that bangsent he raised the issue "up front" on several

NH 47055

DooId: 32271070

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-3-.

eccasions. the reactua he recaled ta his raising the issue

was that "keep your stinking nore out at thi burness.""

He stated that be was lead ta belieue that ma telme desired

to improve the image of the int sligence professicin

and the

Agency and that Hunts books were a part of the progsam

to do sai he stated that be wer rever told outright that this

was the case ; but the responses he receivec lead him

to believe rais as the case."

He suggested tus peuple una night clear theIssue-

Ray" Rosca anci

-water ffarzheimer. "both of whom were involved

ln toe "image' materials.

"He stater that Pfarzheimer seemed to be.

aware of all the details - on on up to date basis - of Hunt's departuce.

From the ogeney to jain the pu, lic relatiam fim, ta the degree. -

that ben. Gayner gained the be ief that Hunt war merely

moving his dest autside the bulding out being paid by the

same saune al befuse.

Also.

8 Feb 6, 1924- meno- On E154, 1924- Farzhermer wa

unterusew.ed.

"This interiew as un ertaken.

maneffert. to

determine it must had acted in any pact 1 operat

-with counter Intelligence aperation, When pfarzheimer discovered

Hivst had wattes. On Hazardow Du'site called Karamessines.

mal recalled that froo the natur of or karamessines!

reaction that he had uncovered: a sensitive mattec at senior

officer concern "Withins minutes Helms called efurzbemer

_who remembers the substance of the conversation being "firchrist.

sake walter, the is the first bode to comealong and say.

•HH. $7055 DooId: 32271070

Rage 4

---

## Page 5

-4.

something good about the agency," "why not leave the Goddam

thing alone mriP believed tha::

"Helms or karamessines

cald answer the queston of whether Hunt had Agency.

sponsorship.foc.his boo.ki

- Ine memo states that itunt

2 office at the Deputy Director foc Operatin)

1a Feb i905. me sat back ux, published ducing irat.

June inos - througs jess iat.

Hunt was assigned to.

Curat

madrid as a contract agent..

= 196060- 3 books apReared.

1967-1 book

19181929-1b00k/95

Adel 30, 1930- Hunt alacally exed as an Rgency stutt

omplajee." The athie at security record did not developaby.

indication that any of the laud st. John manuscrois

were ever submitied fur review, in accordance with Agency

regulatons.

9- mere tux record- Feb 6, 1971 "subj: Possible Bigency-

Sporsorship of the

A conference

was held with pease ton the a office. " the speculation

was.entertamec that mE Howard Huat had, in fact, been under

Agency spcasocsbip.with the knowledge of mr Richard Helms

in his preparatica at a series at spy novels under the

pseudony, David stona It cal be accepted as a reasurable

supessitas that mr. tuat had sime highly cumpartmented

financal arrangement authorized by senur Agency officials

to white there books, then its likely that this relationship

continued after mathiat officially retired, " "Minutes fronthe

offue of Legislative Counsel made references to a concern of

Senator Baker

over an alleged; inancial relatenship. between

M 47055

'DocId: 32271070

Page 5

---

## Page 6

:5-

ma: Helms and-tartant wnich continued subsequent to mastunt's

forms! retrement i" Baker made reference to a payren+

at some "3a0ço with she parenthetical comment that

me Helms would nut naue that enoust of muney from his

pavate rinces a smaleyeeat to staff a

apinioned that "if

the agency had spunsaced the stilohn beaks, it was likely

that rose tuas nad so informed Serator Bakec."

i Interviera with Rayund Barca- Feb 14, 1974 - Asked about

finanang of tent, "Me Raccoo des puns ed "on the record that he

has so knowledge of any such as angersents no atany tone wai

he party to

aay assistance of or any requests for assistance

to mr Hunt " Ventured opinion that' in all probabelty an official

acquies conce on the part of senior o facials might have bzen

mudied rather than an atfcial sponseeshis.

@ interview wits chief, contract Persunnel Divisina

15 Feb 1974 - Stated that "alth ugh it was not common

was nut eatrely unu ual for bighly seasitive

coatracts to be administered us'hout the cuntracting

otacer being aware at the optrationa! objectiemulued."

@ intercue with former chie: of Supput

, western Europeas.

DLUeSZuR-19G5 Date: 15 Fes 1924_ Asked re Hunts activitiern 1965

frace his recollecton it was Hunts habit to deal only with

the most senior officer available."" He was never briefed on the

purpose af ma tunty poisuão...

NH. $7055

DooId:32271070

Page 6

---

## Page 7

O memo sue recoed dated ill Fed 1974, de officeot

Finance Recaras- E. Hawara Hrict a

Hunt-departed DeCOn 5 hug 19 is and araved madras an

16 Ang 1965 Hunt wa

paid brougs an account at the eigat

Not Bank ia Dia. An operatunal act was established fir mr turt

with chase manhadan, ohee was no record of anyaperarinal

accoLatsica

aduences bang processed tacouga thi channeli ma

sale stated that this fact dehned ins concern. He feit that it

was inconceivable

that mi

muttunt could have underta: 2a

operatonal actauty ushut son= transfer of dc accounting

for funds. - To date, naruch recorde: have been developed.

No reference to a project al project digrans ar operational.

FAn number has been lacated a All expenses connected with

me tuat identised to date were charged to the madrid

Statua Suppuri A raulew made of madred Statin recordi harrot

indicated any "Developmental and tiget of Uppecturbs CD&TO"

funces or"ather operational Actiity (Q0A)" fund expendied

by ac aa behalf at madunt. there two accounts would

normally be. the source af operational funding not charged

against a specific project activiti, "" Arevenaf travel vouchess

allo failed to seatity a project... There was a voucher tur

atriptoRE diaturn to madad. madad. Jan5-8;1906- The voucher

_states in the space proudec for thi: citatia of the tcavel order

number-"nu. travel ordesi triescoiunting las appraved and

signed oy karamesses-@nosts caten or statemens of purpose.

mr. Yale noted that the royalty offsit waiver proustin ariended

_to Muntis_cntract was, in his experience, somewhat unusual.

NH 17055 DooId: 32271070

Page 7.

---

## Page 8

The office of finance Director s'ated that from his experience,

325-

mikaromessines would haue delegater all the arranging cot "detalls"

surraundung an assigament such as nitentes, to mete

He offered nis sucarue

az what ne: necoreted to be reticence to date

tainternew. mo

II menas fur recoca al fes 1971 subj's watergate

Eu pope i

E cented sune, 922, por to reticement

was an afio in the-External Espument Assistance Branch

Retrement Betuiter Dunsia of me othia ut Personnel. Aewas to aisist

un funding posteretsement enaployment ite hau been instrumental la the

placement ot kunt in the Pübert R. bullen PeSom. Fes

laue to workung fur Personnel, da

served with the cenmal

cover statt in the area dealing i the the funding af covert action

projects, le had become famillar with actuitei

tist functuined on the cover achuties staff, Bie

Huat.conlle

fistcame

in contact with mullen company wt en he was altemsting to

handle the public relatin effort at a cauert Agency activity

anoura as the free Cuba Cannastee..

"In acessade to a questur as 1. ubether or nut executaue level

interest was sil bang shown in matlunt postiensplayment

placemen, marsey recalled that Helms, then direltur, was listed

as a character reference ao mou Hunt's resume and Helms signed

a leter of recommendation to the ker Decoti copper cada Hunth betal'".

contact was mantaned with situat at the muller co. an

-a continuining basis, because mestr

ww interested in 00r.

-Hunt for possible reterrels fof athe-Agency rehreess), Healso

NH 47055

-_DocId: 32271070

- Page 8--:

---

## Page 9

ünderstooch. there was cousr anch ammercial staft interest in the

paullen lou, and that motint lecame instrumental in

discussing several aspects of the cover -operations la bir

capacity as an offere

-af the cusparsl

Me tuat: contacted

or sevenal occasions: requesting reterra!

of retiring agency coployees with seesac qualitcations -after Hust

had joined the white House

ise Recallica resuest for an individual;

haung stil in the area

It was ind

en of locks dad so surreptitious entry

trat the duties noved wauid include

the monitorag of a listening deus: in an induclosed locatica

Must also requested a recommendatin ot a securiry

service

organization to carry our an ele tronie cauntermeaures

Sweep."

suspected: the electronic cuuntermedure sweep

was. 70: b

Lout in the affier of the cummittee to Re-elect

fias asked i he e er referred anyone tu Inclord.

Empíoyei

Associates:" He had are

p recallia that at the time at trots

assignment ta madrid the statement dusemnated fur casumption

witten the Agency wai

i that ma tuat war teticing

this wai not generally beleued. He was quite certain thatduring

tar pered his affce handled ba praject funding fir tunt.

an matunts setuca to etalf enalament the projects and tusding

which st0206d 10 July 1465- were i9210

raumed:

IS az Feb 1921 oreeting with s

x- He thought it wai

enticely passble Hims a karamessine, hardled the Hunt-madad buiner

on ther own He didn't kao anyth rs:

_ Interulew with furmer Deputy bief us Western European DuIsen,

00P-da Feb 1914, He stated the issignment of mattint to the

European-Division a la maded "as handled without the benetst

NH 47055

DocId: 32271070

Page

---

## Page 10

-9÷

of the cautioe processing procedures thraugh the western European

Duse. Hunch assignment wai coordinated and ducected big

karamessines.

He wai unaware of any spectre project or

target for tunt tent produced posst ve intelligence on the Iberian

target duang this peach the officials responsible fur the offails

responsible fue shu effect within the vestera sumpean Dius

were totally unaware.of.it

a mo mas. ot info he had about iün

wai bearsay, far exonne, a comment was made by a sautual

acquaintanco to the ellect that tuntstated that while in

madridi

he

Has personal apinion that Hurt had no opecational functicand

was sinaly grasted

ed the opportunity to waste books for bus own

persunal gaia at you's expense

D memo fur the record, dated aiDer 1973,

conversation

with C/Iberian dest in iacs, 65.-

He was told by

Eur l wha bad been tud by karamessines

that Huat wai

to be assigned to madrid as DcOs, as adirected assignment by tems.

Ihe Ambassador wauld not has tuat a the embary, After a cousie

nonths t; he was told that Hun was going ta spain under

arafficial cover. It came to bina feis karamesneron Helms'arder

tunt wai to have the phone # at the cis ;out he would do aathily

For the statoo Hunt was to submit rimestratue voucherr far

reimbursement of his expenser & teywere to be parchite kraus

that there was no operatina! repartic, tu indicate that Hunt wais

dong_aaytbag.cos-/madrid.hadtol.bm that bedidn't know what

Hurst: did.

47055

DooId: 32271070

Page

10

---

## Page 11

@ 22 Fen 1904- senrh af finance recures to deermine also 00o

paymeat to Hint that required no a counting could be faunch.

@nzckdtraveL.claims. for 1969=1972

-Anclyzed

runt's adurance

accoust for us in macred and have datermined that

333,500 was aquanced to no for trauel and transportation

with one trio to Paru to renew visas. one item appeared unusual,

as expenditure of 11,600 suca sasitive operation waich wai

appraued for wadecoff by me Dermond Dizgerald on iturelate

"Destrange aspect of the nen affick cour assignment in madrid

is that all the costs

were changechi to the support allotmen.

of the EUR DivIsion

which is no normal as noofficial

cover peaple äre usua

unally

unassigned to the project. Itisinukat

ta have a case afticer abroad for one jear in an opecationz!

assigament witheret bina incurang aperational expenditures.

@ memo datu 9 may 1974, by chies;OPs/OSa re "Watergate

File Research- Final Repact.", Recalls that there were scarional inquitte

by am rendents of madrid asaut the repared presence in Spara

of

§Hotunt: At no time dia must cotact him. There was some info

in

197à cancerong reperted actutes ss Saain by lubert vexco.

a 290ct 1924 mema trom Dir. of Secur ty - "Leave seconds reflect that

for the four week pay perrad ending az Noueraber 1963 muttunt

took a total of 11 houts sick leaus and no ansual leave

In the

follawing tour week pay persod, retack 3 haurs sick leave

and a7 hours annual. leave. We are unable to further Ideath ly the

dates on wnich the above sick andi annual leave were taken

Travel record reflect that mu thint conducted na otheal travel

ducing- the month of Nou. 1963:"

OK

•NN 47055

DocId: 32271070

Page 11

---

## Page 12

eD memo fur recara, 20 sept 1984-by SeD Breckincidge

' Hint's travel recond

ishours

offcal trauel in Septemberi

october and December, but sen

November ; all at this

travel was to New York " "

a states that

already know, as a result at responses to previoui requents

that we

i have no recoras

on stingis that would show

similar information

hewasnot an agency employee

"securty prauded u with a colma by Jack Anderson, of 3

16 April 1azy, in which ha covered she hunt-sturgit rumuc,

durassing it. A cody af the ne is columnis attached this would

suggest that rather aban polla photograpis of persons

rounded up and booked, the phötogrambs in questiun are.

candina snapshots of crowds. If this is correct there would be

no related police: fingerount reuds that could bechecked

for verticatein.

@ memo fur Deputy Directer for adrainistratin From Diriäf

securly

allegativa regarding bunt$ stu gis; "me Shirgu was Dot

assaciated with the Agency ir any manner in lovember

1963." FBI Laison officer interurewed Hunt on toct

1974 and Hurt aduved at that time that he had learnec

as the assassinated of JFK "on bis car radia While be

was ina leave states in thWashingtua Dice area."

@ memo for the record, dated 20 December 1973, by

_Breckinridge. Hunt was in the DO Division anden 7ug 196.4

was assigned to the wash feld offer. "I gave t a a

-possible press treatment that junt was engaged indomestic

aperctions: (something senator Baker pursuing) and that

OK

NN. 47055

-...

Page 1

12

---

## Page 13

his assignment to spain ather the electia could be presented

as guing him time to cool ott."

- Background - 19 June 19%a.

Employed by to hoes Nau i9!9 unil as vorantary

returement also ancilato.

1971 - secued avan adusocto Nuun-chie trip.!

"Subjects as cu

tereit to the Central Cover staff

1C1""

Dec lara - assignca

... *.

Chief at Storen mexico airy.

servedas chuet as passia there eari 1953

Toyino, Japan-

June 1954: 10 Fe6 1257

COs - muntauidea, uruguay

italy vistal casty 1960

....

June 1260- assignento mexc aty- on Project - Bayoffigi

Nou 1961- reassogned to the Dof/covert Actor Staff

Jan 1962

to office of the ChiefLDDe

July 19k2-.

the DIDS Research and Publications

Section in washingto

July 1964

to

the DaD: Cousct Action Staff

Feb 1965.

office of the DDe LOperaruns Graup

Jure: 1965- seat 19606- contact agent- madrid:

Seat 19cbn Chief af Europera Couert Operatiun intel

reticement 30 farel 1970.

6 vou 1920 - granted a cover security Appraval tor

with

use by lenboal cover staff ( mullen

lazuresara- Inquey of Centor cover staif on tuneliza

revealed that thesis a current-relationsh.o.

Subject's see file reflect that lunt to the past, has beeac

operatural interest to mazam. Angleton.

OK

NN7-47055

DocId: 32271070

Page

13

---

