# 180-10144-10229

## Page 1

180-10144-10229

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ir

Notes - Charles Berk

FId=

Doc.1

10144-10238

..:.:

---

## Page 2

-

Hartman

689-2981

695-3024

138

-598

563-818

7 -

435-173

1188 - 1000

1- 1B

6- 3

1380-107347

173-6150

2-524v

State Telegram of Out 51, 1959 (Freers)

Calderon Connersation + note + Cable

CApp 943-944 HTHINGURA carls of Oswald

195ure or IrMay Worfreuest (mise docs)

get copy of relenst letter

---

## Page 3

KRII

689-298 -

31

100

westions art naiti

Was tith fart delivere

695-30217 - supra

138-598

- Why Heconcernabant Calderon

et al

15°

563-810

- Dix you wrt it

still missin

/why.keeploosehn/ast fole

Helms

....

colat.

Sten to attener

spivale

17.9 - 181

2-2, Hendescriptin

/

pusakova

788

1 - 1B

785

943-944

6 - 3

HTLINGUAL

AG

Henry

(1/516V

date-topenin?

aste postricted

wrong description

-, WATetthesT

V/R- RI

whites

1ft

F'S

---

## Page 4

Helms

8.787

nsufGo

2105-

2108

and

Mistrea

1188-1000 = go over tonorrow

Hot does he reme her the date of ra.

24

b.

te written or and instruction

- whigdid you cheek

main index

what.wasintegrater.n

did gou check HTLANGUAL

- what's division D

Didn

Check

DDI

f. whats iRs

S. o has about hee or haptenny

of Alikffidell

dewaskrown

winkedins.o forgyrs

what typeof info was

DIAN

show up sittin

f.ler

why.221operred.so/ats

why i st sent to mal beere

---

## Page 5

Ce. Supposedly farate

opene

pare tea,.

She testines tornis

here did Legertioif

---

## Page 6

1386-1738+173-615

Helms

3369

435 - 173

- eve

see

th's

-

was leawar

of =

Khi's

men

Dialecteck/ther

was it reporter

to him ener

Did le check

w/ the CorDe

ot Resench

section

ot SR!

---

## Page 7

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 8

Hartman Inters. ew

946-5241

1951-1976-

etred in 1976.

spentin office

2: 1943-1964- membe a Rocceging

assignments

shoe doo

perinet to red an motor

gatin

maintaned file creater based

all papa in recends agater went into

LHo 201

3. Outer soolz a Tom Hall, decades

41/916 - worker class, with offe

1974-1975) 61 Staff. HTLINGUAL

5,

100000

permanen duf- to manton Ho fil

---

## Page 9

10/31/59

the

Jamlen with

516- american nosier st

5,5- american chosles with

would line no/ site got agen

T-1B - 180023)

That Coral is door

W/KEB

Mathing in C11 rul (Reende

Handst see paren

WV4

en't cat le in guy arcares

didn't knowcooker

Punger

hecking mito

---

## Page 10

The and total

*

menta to

AE is a code in the recod handbook

Is too lith cod for occupaten

imputeiges

2-521 - *- MeanoxHo

aufety the

201

ATLINEUAL cardS

Vic

---

## Page 11

2-3

dosn't than (Berston)

are Landled

according to

wok boady

pespee

bod thecases dascrytin.

---

## Page 12

138-598

- diest Chessn

O are, may have in mette

abortit

435-173A dissat remembs

Your it-iterk

demigthave

why coaste time nLH0-

- creep

Believe (Casansaia) is Dick

LE fu

---

## Page 13

563-810 Fink decisit

was written in ennecten

to be follie a, we mande,

dress ended recond

doesn't know what Mappened

might have Kept foren

089-298 - neus odo it-

425-13024 - dog tho

tallprooly

remembe, the affadare

write it

---

## Page 14

P. Hartman is is pent

2 a

Trent not aria

2b..

checked main indef atros

volitin

tem, interated in - FBI docs

cable traffe

didn't chech HTLINGUAL-

2q. checked Duand becau

Lad senates dredings -

dealt w/NSA

2 e.

DDI

Centre Rebrone Sevice

Dine, dan econd calmera

---

## Page 15

2g, news checked unde Alek tele

2K - remotented date s

nate is nao

_ wa

at as oth out

presums

necessary? → statement - als comes

hare been of from Helme

where trea

abriad

3, Porn tree him to Doubl

Zuk o'ner

INDED

Jimply.

jo°

evanor

notinf fiste

---

## Page 16

dik't check / militang sovies

5, did the a fais

78 to terate natas

Hailians

mayll he's wing

RYBAT cable need at

84201.

---

## Page 17

bat immeno

---

## Page 18

My name is Robert Genzran.

I am staff counsel to the

House Select Committee on

Assassinations. I. have been

designated counsel impowered

to take statements under oath

pursuant to House Resolution

222 and select committee

Rule 4.

Me. Wartow, would you state

Your full name for the

commitle Rules and pestinent

Have you read Conimitter Rule 4?

Do you understand it?

---

## Page 19

ho it true that you are not under.

subpend. fet this deposition

Are you betifying wo tentarily?

Do you understand that you have

the right to have counsel present?

Do you desire to have counsel present?

M. Maten de it deprit it

will be sent to you to sigh

and verify. Of when you

recue a copy to sign and

verify, you desire to make

any changes for any reasons,

you should contact me and

I will make the necessary

are to try we gee your

desire to make.

according to the selest

Commiltee Rules, a witreis is

entitled to a copy of the

corsected transcript;

---

## Page 20

however, because this deposition

will involve classified

information, it has been

The our policy to ok the

witness o to waive his

right to a copy.

He Haetman have you worked for the

antral Intelligence Agency.

Dates.

51-76

In connestion with your angloyment

with the CiA, have you wer

executed a decrecy oath or a

secrecy agreement weth the

CIA?

At this time I would like to give

you a copy of a document

marked as. JFK Exhibit 9'4,

which is a letter from Mr.

Frank Carlucci, Gating Directer

of the CiA, to the Chairman

of the House select Committee

on...

assassinations, dated March 23,

---

## Page 21

1978

y and dealing with

secrecy arrangements with

the agency

Have you read

this letter?

Do you understand it?

Hartman, what was your position

in 1963 and 1961.

pride flag no expestre in recorde

---

## Page 22

10 - 31-59 Cable

JFK EX. F 534

Moore Embo Any telegran to Des

Blog to discussing

defact.

Would you rend this cable.

What component It HQ would have

recewed this information and

when?

Why.

---

## Page 23

201 opening Form@BaLto.

CIA page number 788.

Would you read this page?

Why CI 515 opened?

Why dare Egenter opened?

Why long thy time persed between

receipt f Dos cable t

file pening?

Behe maski

Why

"restricted?

Why he middle name "Ne toy"?

what does

"AG" mean?

Vid CA segulations coes second-las pug

for Americans defectring to s.11..

AG

additin point out to we.

---

## Page 24

Index carde

ClA page 787

What does star iptis Orwald's

201 numbes indicate.

HTLINSUAL CORA

943+944

What essa HTLINGUAL?

Whit CA component sam it.

What Was Compor ent refered to?.

special Prigits

On top card pithat does C/PROtEs

on 7443

On mistle randywhit dee WATCH

Why would Garter'a name he orphand?

---

## Page 25

Whet does "eleted 28 ays".

Caked on p. 941,

CI/ PROJECT/PH?

Cables

He tomc, dated +0-10-63-819 74838

F-516

Why the stenry Orwald?

Does plys desisty. a fit toweld?

Yes,

Drea cable reflect ble,

sent to pric

it 7 god time!

Dissemnation Caple, 10-10-63

Ho to various

agencies. D1k6467)

JFKEX.F5>

Description correspond to FI6, HQ,

cable to me dated 10-10-5'3?

If not, to to does descrigtion fit?

imon

2nd pars.,

does this sloo

give middle manse as Wenry?

Does this cable indicate sent at is gettine

---

## Page 26

•du 1963, Did CIA's MC station ingege in seroel lai

salandaci

Please refes to a document ilif ann

ya formes CIA emplayee in

recollection of LHO la trip

t mc?

Have you ever ren aborte document befe??

the

Ware photos oftHo taker?

Where ale they?

of not, ely not?

mers

Tapes

2220

sten Me

Ita

Do you know whelter LHOs voice

was recorded duzing his stre

in Mexico@ByCLAT

How do you know?

Possession 85

55577?

How did you set lapes?

Where from?

---

## Page 27

Where seat to?

Ever listened to recordings?

How how rear dings?

Who sle would have seen in had

control of them?

Iron fide to bricke

644-17.6

Why list so teng beaned at sin?

FBI Meno, 9a, 23,63, pran. J. Elgar

Houser to fans f Railay

JFK #F

Please sand

@ do-par, accusate.

Were tapes sent to Dallas?

197

177-

Nor. 23 sable, Me stat. to HQ

Over seen it?

sistesting

Hand pose, was voice composion done?

Do you know whether any tapes of CHO were destinged.

Was sither of tapes soon toes.

---

## Page 28

p. 201 = Elle dated 91o0.23,1863,

Ever seen cable?

down it appear assiste

that a tapes wees erased?

accurate

Any subbequent tapes found?

Of nogo by is her?

Firon Win Sintta safe?

---

## Page 29

Tor do you explaw fact that

this cable seconds incret

description of LH0, wake Sable

JFK S16, sent 3 tire rashers, at

2ed planes contains cosset

was cable astually sent at later time?

Memoranda Bron (TRonas B Consin, res

pp: 3368-3369

Have you loan been preciously?

Breton line refars to 'chisey story

What is Servey story?

Ear go then as se locumente

on with other person refersed

to in document

---

## Page 30

JFK

# F-®

524

Memo 20 Fel: 6'4, discussing

documents evailable in

¿Ho's file?

Ease seen? yes,

author? Nemself

at whose instruction, written.

square

''documents stencribed not

sailable in 201 file missing

No, at trous deales.

Why were they not in the file?

handisetter

loves left hand corder, word.

"Please keep loosely in the

boat volume of Goweld's 201"

Whos wrote? item

aby?

far. 1, What happened to altachments lick

---

## Page 31

CIA pp. 2105-2108

i8 Sept...

The Warvey Gawalds

exorget

Read it?

connection wilt the Agency?

Par. Z a o hour remember exact date?

Par. 2b, Way cheet hid you check the Sain

Andess

"on right of assass?

Who instructed you to recheck

Mahn Index?

what items, integrated in second

oystem sins assassination?

sid you check with this running

HILINGIA programa.

Dis it sother tre

Jay other in

Pack. 24

sway did you check wets

Division D

What i Drivesip?

Wait is on firml dessecond?

in par. 2d.

---

## Page 32

far, Ze, how did you determine

that not 05

Personally chile on LHO?

bat: 2 Fras

Eves checked ADI?

marie

Lea Harvey.

See Henry Oswald?

Wies Alek Medell? AD Didell,

Par 2j, what was purpose if

I staff'e

Par 2K, how were you able to?

determine that you competed

What happened to "brief informal.

note "

sent to foca, treat

nonling welts of your check

Fastsentence, how do you know

results communicated to wa

Was your note the bais?

---

## Page 33

par 3, otte on smile decke

Sods a now resulte vees

regative..

Is ho told you?

Par 4, Why LHO not debrifed?

life in finit, not ifter

visited by westerners.

per.5,

What. is

Inter-Agency

Source Register" in DDO

Each check?

Of not, why not?

For check other agenty's

se hits as agent'

far. 6.-

201 file posed on basis of recept

Fifirst 15 kouments, 2.

FBI, 2 DOS,

'Havy. Way tete. 13 months after

receipt of frast doement, which

as 10-31-59 cable.

---

## Page 34

Why had Mc info not been included

in Lito'o... 20) before day I

assass.?

Why datas

Lesseminatec

before inclusion in 201 file?

How do you know Me cable

made available to Wai

Pas.?

manuscept

Read pars. in document

Tow Do you reconcile you statemen

So you still feel

in par:? with document,.

regarding ripetame t engency

resent wan. WCreorewe

10s.201

Who present.

---

## Page 35

lle

: Kubr

(to the extent deemed appropriate

Did the CiA oltar.

the name aayone

other than

Welle

who.

Cach Huhy

saw for

lathed

with

Cuba

?

after

schequent to the

CIA

did the CiA learn

else abont..

Sach Mul

pm CIA

fille, soured

-, or otherase

---

## Page 36

-OVER_

Does CiA have an

infamater lating

Gad Nuly a his

associates sperajicaly

ash Me: Leura McWillie

to CIA - Grafia plot

aganst (astro or any other

plots against Castro

p.2-

did you revie. C

injo..

I posible link

between

Hully

1/or associates

with CIA

sperically - Cabella- In Ville?

---

## Page 37

Cmy problem auntes

with respondin

to W..C

re:

122242268

---

## Page 38

any invest stinto of checks on.

delegation to comeste

If not, why not?

Wher

What was reled upon for Mo Cone's

fidat to Wc on

I A agento allegation

anyone w Maur Bihop?

Talked weth anyone it CA concesning your testimony,

5 minutes to expand, clarify,

ete.

For the record,

On behalf of HSCA, thank you

---

## Page 39

For: Chuck Bart

HSCA offices

11112345*

---

## Page 40

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

