# 180-10147-10116

## Page 1

180-10147-10116

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL'

USE OHLY :

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

-SECRET

SUBJECT: (Ostional)

AsCa

OLG REGORD COPY

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

S.D. Breckinridge

01878-2475

1385

DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

11 July 1978

COMMENTS (Number

eoch comment lo show from wich

to whom.

Draw a line ocross column after euch comment.i

RECEIVEO

FORWARDED

1.

Norbert Shepanek

PCS/LOC Tube: DX6-Green

2.

Doris Haudesheldt

OP

Tube: FX2-Green

Please give this request

highest priority and

report to us immediately.

3.

Ray Reardon

0/ Sec.

Tube: FX1-Green

4.

Dick Rininger

OGC

Tube: Fx Green

5.

John Leader

0/ IG

Tube: BX-? Green

S.D. •Breckinridge

70x 54 Folder o

#2Y

7.

rations

Select Committee on

1.5. House of lie,

WASHINGTON, D.C.

OFFICIAL BUSINI

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinatior/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C.

20505

!

IT USE PREVIOU

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

!...

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

10147-108k010116

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREFER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

YVONNE PRATHWAITE DURKE, CALIF.

STEWAIT B. MC KINNEY, CONN.

CHARLES THONE. NEON.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD/ CONN.

HAROLD S: SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

• FLOYD 1. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

Asca

OLE 0 2-2428

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.5. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

SECRET

1 I JUL 1978

Box 59 Folder 10

# 24

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

central Intelligence Agenc)

Washington, D.C.

2050

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In connection with this Committee's investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of President John F. Kennedy,

we respectfully request access to any and all files or documents

concerning or referring to the following individuals:

1.

LICOOKIE/1

2. Lynn Duran (aka Lydia Duran)

3.

Eunice Odio

4.

TICHBORN

5.

LICHANT/1

6.

General Jose Jesus Clark Flores

7.

Emillo Carballido

8.

LIRING/ 3

9. Manuel Calvillo

10. Charles Thomas

11.

June Cobb

12.

LIHUFF/1

13.

LITAMIL/7

14.

LITAMIL/9i

CIA HAS NO UHUEC IN!: TO

DECLASSIFIRATIÓN ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

as palated

15.

Victor Rico Galan

16.

Noe Palomares

17. Joaquin Cisneros

We are aware that some of the above-listed individuals have

been the subject of prior requests. We now respectfully request

that the

files on the above individuals be given the highest

priority.

As some of the information contained in this letter was

derived from classified CIA files, you may desire to classify the

letter appropriately.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

GRB : mgm

Sincerely,

2. Dobut Blahe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

BR

---

