# 180-10144-10410

## Page 1

180-10144-10410

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Vanta

1.

Relevent Information from

wald 201 preg

warding

vid Attee Phillips

nane copies onellana

2.

Phillips sow them

douse first cable reportina

not have a routing slip.

attatched o This cable

miginated pite Barbara

by Min Scatt.) There is no

that determine frost

Dave Phillips hadanythin

to do with this caled

The cable is dated 10/8/63

THIS COPY IS NOI

FOR RELEASE.

180-10 144-10410

---

## Page 2

The first document in

Oswald's Mexican 201 that

went to fo Phillips was

in 11/25/63 Cable to HQ

reminder of Castras

Threat at the Brazition.

embassy

In the same day o

Cable from IMWAVE (WAVE 8149,

101=578) was routed to

Phillips. It reported a phone

call from one Carbaca

Cubans The call, from

mexico its peg the

secret dervice. During this

call one of the parties

said that Castro was

behind the assassination

ind that Bobby was next

The INWAVE Cable gave the Ar

incorrect. 201 number for

---

## Page 3

line

On the routin

lip Millips rate the

chills are." The Secret device

reportanted and filedes

The next cable routed to

Phillips, etro dated 11/2/63,

concerned the initial

interviece of Silberto

Alverez Ugarte (Mexi 2000)...

124-54).

Ow 11/28/63 the file indicates

that Phillips recieved the

Between 1/2s and Is there

Phillips reces anothin

---

## Page 4

s Ofter Mgarte as delivered

Phillips started reciving

being routed throughe

9. On Feliad 1 trafte

Verscen. Verdon was the

Salvador Nias

source of the report

Peacing Quald ata

int in Mexico Citi

with sylvia Quran and.

Cuban Ambassador Armas

:"Dknew.him.in

Havana. His reports diere

unreliable..

---

## Page 5

10. An examination dresson

ENez Paster, ere associated in anti-

Castro efforts ascanlyas

954 when they met in

in attempt to consolidate

forces

On October 1963 Phillips

was in Mashington preparing

to take overs his phew

operationo memed at the

Phillips spent tober in

consultation with IMWAVE

officers. He returned to

Mexico and ass

imed hi

duties as chie of Cole 1463.

---

