# 180-10144-10169

## Page 1

180-10144-10169

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C.Berk

.2

3

10144-10169

SECRET,

I6R 1907

4/25/67 Memoranden - re

plans to

acon. Castro. Becauseg eprene

senatorts q operations " ana matte

a principle no officine recordaivere

Kept o planning, o approval, n of in €

plementatin.

W. Harvey retained skelete notes, he

vitortes durins gears in

- Missarita

Gest suence, date

not nfo gren her come cally

even deemed kneedle insteei

except Dulles an Cabell

If to are degrificant maccurse,

the report, ttes are mat likely to recenc

faults andering the sepiend lent."

5 separate phasion Agery cossa

planning the transitios fim me to anite

not along sherply repere, Each phae

reflect the prevailing Hot, alitade C

SECRET 11111982

a) prer to 8/ 60: all octers dentifie

odent me intended tis descent Castes sens

---

## Page 2

3

4

SECRET.

des irfluencing hi behaveor n albrtrs he

appearane

1) 8/00 - 4) 61 : reted ln, cone pauupeno

pirely ne aspenty verall active iffut

to vertioi Cante jeginie - culmia.

Ned in Bay o Pip

c) 4/01 - Inte/oi : majo salane begun

in s/ 0o calles ff apa Bof Pigi

es dormant

s esmst tpelene aduvets ne

laiea to Cuba

d) late/61 - late/62: scheme in c) reaetiva

tex un rte larls te2, puster vizar-

rudy in erag Progect MON GO OsE

cnd in clemate pentéras admin.

priosire in ciA to do ormattins

abnit CASTRO and hi Ngin

e) late/ 62 untee well into 1 943: prst-Cuba

mcsale cusis 10/02 and cillapae

1 Project MONTOOsE

azgrosioe satere oezuna 8/60, reirie

m 4) 0z , lermerates nearle les

2 outa plrs rrezennta in 1963 but

boch desmed mprscteble and ded sae

coneto fructer...

11111883

fruitess nd conzealestu plitterg inflione

sede oroone pitenneds aime

---

## Page 3

SECRET

2 prins y importanice:

2) Linging almit dourface

in leader fum proclin

aling -

rich hit particpento

Well vantto costo

1) eliminatios a

leada will nit

5

Nei creal CIA

draft paper, 10/01

incatei in

sapore

destre

a tried pont: prequent cont to synecdich

i, e refertence to apart crei che cRol

is te beintesend eug, maey

whek rend

hin tuit he colitende to be read in

eroade, fismwesense dislogins

CASTRO regine.

Cando le vra poroide sede , chin-

kelly CAsTRO

I6R arbide itat no renon te belice

beccatim

content

11111984

---

## Page 4

7

SECRET

Ut Presen regents.

CIA fur proced

or, weapn

ito ager, Calan coset at Pari

pretty m 11/20/03. The weapocas a

ball point peen regg'd of hypodermi

sprange, Poon suggestio facasion

Black deaf.

• 40

b) Guy 10, 1962 mectes if 55 (augmente)

aT sean Rusks anference com. aT

meeting Robert Me leman raced sulfet

a leguedatin) Cultan leades. As a

sault eduard tanadale prepares a

Project MONSOOSE action menranteen

Om 7/31/64-21t S6 meters -

discussla Clandele Service if

report in Cathe efile plit to coor

pers and tarn involvenet in the plat

c) On 2 recessions, early cl, enly 6s

szodicate nember

CASTRO. '61 plot abriter

senden Fla., ita 09ttt1885 Clam

May 1902. gune 1962 uglifesta

reports that Stoptiman team dispact.

---

## Page 5

10

SECRET

of sopy arse, the three men

arapt to tell cAsTed perhapout the

pill

diet, cocatio relatinalg

artis

ravine plot is unfrunder.

miscellaners Schan Prun to 5/60

March to Cuzust'cos

3 - 4 achers imardeed well before Bos) Pur

tre it, spect end gees.

2 (Jake Eaten head yet, lion

croideratin

• while Estetire had deert

Estetine eatenato March 1960 as time

When planning wild house prize on to

codesting creard - lying iterd

n rain-throt effat" cheapon

the rochen

11111886

no corone that actives approver at ang hige

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Beal attach as Padio Statin

spraz 150 lee substine en radio

suite viper CASTRO dedibroadcist -

witting cinepella - dacinger

bern chenecal in not reling facie

recalla experimo* / paychic ere gizes

enterinata Cigar

Tright have been prepared fea

indic

dedn'rget

Dp/p's appy

out: Exterin potive Cizar, coel

not lectae

Agan not cos becaus WH/4 credit

wit/y:

111118871

Side Metlet, TSP belias dear

wes intended stepling - but boutiel

didn'T git begone tille

---

## Page 7

SECRET

13

14.

Д

pilato

reiche reuill schone to aedepilaten

ti cestig CASTRO'S mage by making

he beard fall rut, Shes con to dust

tallin pords (ite depilatin) .

CASTROIS SHiS..

Scheme got orey so for ad

prostene y chemical and thatin

airas.

But acker fell stirt

berne tup outos CUBA ly CASTRO

at which tom prode was to be seifell lare

Hambling Syndicate

→ phase operatio

2) um 8/ 60 - 4/05/41

0) fum 4/ 02 - 2/63 (reveraly, su

Plase I

august 1940

Dpp Bissel ashed Sheffield Eindo, Diecta

ten coa coorder in convero. w/ Bissel

Bissel Du idea reginales w0/5.6 King,

ihen chefg wHt pwrsem

11111888

SECRET

---

## Page 8

15.

SECRET

Eduardo contarted Pabet Madeu.

Nikee has provedes in the poust

suppat to CiA someq et anne

sensitre opertin

cikpegale in IOR report ho cooked for FB/

O'Connell, Editar Megan

Mateu tote Ediand de Lad Colatt

participate ne, ala verr preosiei6,

Edirand

Risellio Ruivan and Milen aquei

representative planamos o/ interation

11111889

Septembe 1960 - croeste properatem

was Fanes P. O' Conell, Chief, operes-

tinal Suport ureim,

Roselli in NYC - Maheumates Capite

Railli agres *

Da corte introdue Naheu

to "Sam Gold" whe conse arrange it a had

muinte enirit in Schlet

---

## Page 9

18

SECRET

oui declines pagnent,

beliered titre

5/17/02: Nomme ever pagan Kailli

Org O'Cnniel was made witters s Opointer

at ite Lime: Eduant, idoit mert Rolle

tel summaq '62

Broall informes, contact of dente

9 Sept 1960

on Riais, Edward

slater that telme was nit informes

9 the plan becana Brosell washindling

CuBA at the lime

Edant brufed Dulk an Cabell in

Ite syndicate plan. Bissell was

precent al trufing. Edward arided

use q "balconda" - descrotive

Cabell knew what the matine the pe nt

t BC Rosellit to C (the primeplian CUBA)

No tamal approval gier - Elvan bélicos

---

## Page 10

19

70

SECRET

week 9 9/25/60 - 01 Connell, Mahen

Natel — "tied" ond he had a

mom Joe (tanto trafficent) WR

waila be conca to CuBA and make

arrangement there

o'connell neve met ola"a Joe

O' connell learner then Cre

dentis

afia an asses supplen

At time, Meani meeting rafficant was

meters regula trips veteer Manni

at Havane on syndicate busines

"Trafficante wa to mide the arrange -

ments (fa CASTRO's coons) urte neg

injos to Havana.

11111891

Fall and Went 1960

21

Sot unusultn Chefy TSD to be by-pas

noperatio nooling his people. sue pru

---

## Page 11

7.1

77

24

SECRET

03

- vuilar porom

fatal a fero Are go ingestar

Le) tept ne, the perimate agen

Sanct as 1 7967-

Dr. Eland beens got the cya and

kept them in 1s safe - desting

Iter wiln a mih o Shef Elwarsiationat

In gane: 1903

Racelt sinles 4 pomblappunks;

a) smelting highl, totic eig dillfish.

param administered za pur

el bacteral materal a liques fors

2) britaire treatmer gagaia cifarette

d) handkerchief tenter a/ bader

Bespelland Rosebelt bath recall that

Tanung - Tehran 1961 11111992

was actually prepares and deliveri

ense and oafety o

hand bene

---

## Page 12

25

SECRET

Scarcane against meg firesin -

Mila heve been a suicide mesos

he prefered a lithal pill i breed

fichief + sector Seneral, the offe

q Ite Preme Mencota (CASTeS) - Orth

miney

2/8/01 = ned un been therm and

Keel - sum Li testerpillon

2.6

27

i recalls dealing n/ (reichl but

le ha no record o dilies

all but he don't ninel, hee

acled records yout thing

61 Стале лення май срся - зах 3)

item to Piselle - proses.

for 2/10/61

41111893

Han us appracher abort the

denis lemo, SECRET

---

## Page 13

÷ 7

SECRET

Fat Feb-Much 1910)

Rosel peel la jianta

pace

delivered to Ortain Cuba

28

27

"Ot seen likely hit, while the

засе

to Castro, what thig achinelshas

as has dearenter at

several

ofil almpt. Neith

Ediads no O'Connel know who the cos

March-Apil 1961

11111894

Roselli tell 'anned the rafficint

kens mani Cuban Exile movement

Who might do the jab - long Varne

1D. Manuel am de even do

Front- ageng suppote proup

Varia coon assester ly 1/18/01 FBlepat

is fenne STREBRES.

ndecate to nei-

---

## Page 14

SECRET

30

3/.

Rise

32

33

jadente lies Cuba Tru

he mistress trotters (Cellini)

Varon is receptive

becausins o

yame fa ships, ammo ete

Bennian man pest te operatin

Sure Edwards out , enon, Bannerson

to Vaiona

Raili cannes deta

mimes and

pillo to Roelli: Roselli gue

mency and pell ti Varma.

Jutle is known the deleong channels.

Aprie - May 1961.

11111895

soor apte Bayo Dugs Edwait endo

cond t Railli thre O'connell

that the partin to of a

O'Connell belies din

weren wo

at fun and frad and that

siretting was gringn betweer

1141 and 462 but can't recall oh

look neat 402 it it a ging peritin"

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

34

35

0' Connal belicos le recivier the pill

and destiger them

5/14/02 meno ly S Edwado stic

the le perons hed kennilege,

the gentin but ISR identifes

13 people she treiin late 60 a in

i allen Dulls

21 Ben / Cabill

3) Ruhard Bissell

4) Sheffuld Editands

5) Jams O Cinnell

D. Esterline

Ennelues Rosevelt

8) Lay treickle

5) Edwand Duna

10) Willian Hawe

i1) Sidney Soilliel-

12) Rober Bannerman

4. peror ritade got denor to be

witters a the operatin and it Agency

Cinnectin

1) Robat Makeu

11111996

2) John Dalli

3) Sam Hancana

4) Santos TraffecateRFARET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

35

36

CIA Conectins speculative

) Juan Orto

2) Antonio Varna

3) Varns so-ca-law

RFK and Laurence Histor leuner

1) Exara P. Mngar

2) Drew Peaum a Jack Andeian

3) Earewaren

4) Dams Rowley

5) Pat Coyre .

7) Various membe, the PBI

37

Zebr. 41

Gambles Syndicate PRObL

Busal assigner once ast spani

to Have - referes te as Specutive

actin Capablets- stances capabilits

to cargout assassinatin cha reques.

Bessel recall dismosin, develois

cas triper iz educa u gamere

and create

---

## Page 17

SECRETI

38

Broale hat disciange certrn sspeit

qutiproblen.co/ (0

and Sidrig

Gotdiel - Haidey usex

( 008) in dovolopin

Epeelction caabilit bat mut ipropert

to CASTRO

Nelmo ia brefer n genene cncept

E. A but dis not mentents

te te ngng pla taoororente

Crotro

Exer Actin - ternnaa ZRRIFLE

prinupliamet - QTWIN ecrtita

aoposstimemba a

- riruiter 3de

3.9

uts - peasel praster the refust)

ZRRiFLE - fustappena i file in

5/li - furot vecrdes approval 2/19/102

n 2/19/42 - DPP Nelsno Cutniças

Harvey, ley memo, te handle puget;

mopenal baci

Q5WN get annurl arl 14419 % 200

- 1500

t polatinl n operdin

ceesfo- teve, di e a/ erale

ee q ERRIPLE prograr ir Custt =

Broadl toex ttawes to take oe?

& Enwan

---

## Page 18

41

SECRET

39

40

Site 1961- Early 1962

operatio

7cb - March 1962

Hare, 1"' meet do Ediando re CASTRO

perate a 7e619762

coppert , IRRIFLE - but Nerve, premall,

handles it Castr spenter and

dis notus ang, the coot

developed a ERRIFLE & Haney

treater Exer. Getta @rogram as

springs 10/ QT W112

Have and when he writes ZERiFLE/QIU

The reference was to Specutive Aitin

Capabilits, when he ual thecryplag

ERRIFLE alme, he us referring to

vined disclse thi distinctin. IGR

revered the correspondene xor

mat put fund at unrevealing

11111899

QJWIN terminated la (Pupent

Cin) at 431/04 e No inductionti

äTWiN das due eised SECRET

---

## Page 19

41

42

SECRET

Арія 1963

Edends w/)elm appival arrange

pupse y repoteato Xelme

Treate

Dave, slate he regulal,

speratin

apul 42 - Edmas olalement tra

минет прочне бита,

on gamblis spacent operatin

and the Helm's apprived that Harvey

not ere the decrecta (Mome mr

the meeting

Exions believs that the specation

wn called if completes after Bag?

i and no furthe operatina dilurt

until Haway mettRelli treatia

the aperction in 4/br

Harveyi recollections supp0 g.

eliond except holy or he look wha

ying operation

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET,

43

ó'Connell abo believe thre was

simethin gong in belier 4/01 aple B Pu

and 4162 bat can"t emembe particulas

to meet Caselli

44

Harvey + O'Connel despute chitte

Mahen was present at melts

beans upon che the Mader knew:

the operatin Interned Under Harvey

457

Hater,

mayhe More go to Spacabar

se Phyllis Me lio there

prelli attempts to avord her

Edwards saip that when he brefer string

in takeove the did not mentin Makey

Do that he cold screen Maternity the

operatin

71111901

46 O'Connellcargova into PlaneTt.

be a few weets - his rolin the

operation ended by June 1962 whe

SECRET

---

## Page 21

47

48

liter

49

SECRET

A Hawe arresen Mini on 4/21/62 -

Links Roselli in trich i/ Tong Vaion

i went to TER Now he loo

ver a "ging perten" O' Connell

cincurs.

in reactuatin, the pertia

Sarcia-Honey and fore

cho spite Statian"

Prelli remanner prominentin

the peation but te cnted dreit

ACIA

11111902

'Ot could be naive to acoure that Piselle

did not take the precautin o informer

use-ups in the syndicate thate wa

working n a tenting moiseld to be the

private drain pomome else in th

bijodicate!!

SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

49.

50

afta Pill given by Reselli to Varma,.

Varma requester aumiante

fa support, he peratin. Haspines

God infines, the by Roelli.

Harvey End TMWAVE slatin chief

Led Shackley proced the malins

A cat 9 85000 wisT/Ald to headgunl

Hawey + Stadly lorded egup int a U-Hail

and parked it on parkins bit at adie-

in restauranto. Roelligen ide r

Delvery to Maces, Varina, a Varma

am-calan Harvest Prollides

a druble-cros. 3

survelled the rite cO innelliva

co/Proelli, Shackley is/ Hawes

The trick was picked pt returner

cmpt, co hepunde ide seat in

premange Have oy Shackle

SECRETI

11111903

---

## Page 23

SECRET

50

5/

52

may 196₴

Harvey and Prelli immuniented Ali-

phonecals by prearranged galen

Ribelli renter that pella in Cuts at

June 1967

quine zi- Roselli repent 2o Harves that

Varma Las dispatered 3 men team into

Cion: Harvey say 3 men heroseife

plan fa telling Cats, The 3 men conce

rint oken to kill C. I opts presented

They note comes bill C, mayes no pill

Hare news know thee man.

Sept 1962

Harves and Roselli meet in The a 1/? 19/"

seduce reprico in place, 3 man team ouple

I Varia ready to senderance 3m tear to

infiltrate Cadro bodyguar

Sept, 962- Jan 63

11111904

3m to cornt leave - Oct mindle

crisiadevelops, Better 12/22 + 1/6/63

Naire see Roselli + Maces in Miam

expense. Have, + Roselli talk ta phone 1/151/16

if future

---

## Page 24

SECRET

5

53

7e6 63

Hawe, in Miami 3/11-2/14 lens cond

ya acco the it lish like of all

-2/15 - Are Claus Meanita

2. A to meet Kelli. AlL. Apecting

Have I telli agree to close of the pecter

but that Roselli end continuo to 20 Dana

gradule, redes frequen interment

Apre-May 19663

Stare wans me last meetes -1 posilli lefore

57

June 1963

Roselli unwash, mea-Jure to meet copter,

Sam Papect all Hans, while awe Kosell

are dining out. who cads have, of he haows

11111905

the meet Paper nemani, Slain,

Hat de co terminntes an operatinction

---

## Page 25

SECRET

55

56

Have cay ke the told elm the

edent a helm agreed Uit here wr

Calls to be expected..

Thi won Haveg' last facto far nutes,

w/ Roelli

2ad phase wetting person

Richard Delos

Willian Haney.

Jams O'Connell

Sheffied Edwards

DeCoding

extrackle

Раз рена)

Varmas son-in-law

Macco, Roselliman"

San sarcare may have been fume y

32 pressely Roselli, detto Sants) raffecat

Roilli to Makeu

31111906

Mikew to Edward P. Pngan (Maker" Wash

Mirzanto D. Pearan

Darren to Proles, res

sec serone)

---

## Page 26

5%

58

SECRET

he Whetapping reident

Into '61-Eng ' 62

Hernando private Crie

made FBI aware o

egeng srelatim -

step i syndente-regured brefers

q a -6. an detaily asons plat

Phyllis Me Duce - Scarcanes mishes

is/ DarRaore - Suncana wanted

Ne fune Les Vegs hote rom bugger. Nike

willants greed to bag rom fin beanien

1961 - off Bage Pup, mugle enh,

1962 but befre 2/2/62 mchil

ant Drectry Secunt, toelF Bi that

Edward l DuBois Munile regust

Mike, Dubois assigns ditti

Balletti +9.C0. Staircan todo Chejol

11111207

o'consell amp telephone tap coed in

stead a plantes big on the room, Billet,

equo. fra Do the prais + local

Baleft anesta Hairion

---

## Page 27

59

SECRET

They, case recher the FBL

FB/

nantes te press fa prosecutin urda

wilipping stacule Makeander

IBI that the tap cre fa an operatin

Le/

peratio que bebeded corres?

Revans com dine fa ts purpre

bat doon 't indicati

tA: De coelligene peraton cons

asono. plat

Marck/962

mectins belves Adians and FB/rep

I sensitive geration i/ ang - azeres

objett procution.

sam raputmet - Edwando reiterato

Li prostin re procectin, Ewand

Dulls and Boall gone ly the time, Telas

deda't Rang the operaten - Edwards dealt

---

## Page 28

SECRET

12

622

April 1962

7/16- Laurence trustn, CIA ten' Crusal

meet w/ Herbet g. Milla, Justice

Sept (Cument Dwinn) and indicate

detail a asari: operation i Ariston

mates meano 4/20 qmeeters, indicate

Milla will cooperat but might

4/20 - Anista meet 10/7 ole, Mulle

asst - indicate that pisecutinfo

ot matter not relate to buggers peop

6 0k.

Because M. I. might be informed,

Hasten huf DDI| Hen'! Carte

who seed he regat at some tre thief

micone. Not knony Carte Crepe

me core. No creation that Cart

May 1962

11111909

briefing

5/2/0r - Areaten and

(Edwant cord). Als indicates de conla

---

## Page 29

63

SECRET

At a. I's refust mesorandin

reend o meeting prepared

REK equet in 5/l!, meso lates/04

Shef. Edwars - DuriSery -

tie purpse a percomes be

unfores tim the menio

The Core, Edward on

trufed a Cartea divano

"7m repents a the lifers, it s

redonable to assure that Nensele

believes he has outä comitner

C to be told in adanoy CIA involve

ment us/ Us gangate element) fum

ery repitentatus

Sut at.

the very tire that eFK

Hennedy was ness told y Phaett

/14 - Have de life elio

Fee Me Cre + Carter Helma Con-

currer

71111910

It appens that FBI wor not given

a trufing of operation in anytting al

the detal given to denned,

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

67

feet unwitting and there

Auguot 19600

Chiego Sun Time antice 8/16/63-

"CIA SoughT francanna Lelp pa Cubi

69

70

8/20/03 Chiage Sen ins Aitedle

8/14/63= DDP Helmo memo to Me Cone

famsy a copy 9 5/17/67 ment

record to RFK following 5/7/62

Leeping yRFK in plast senten

I6R - entist date 8/16/63 - thaT

IoR sup is not new inner, tha

ciA allie / gangates to collectings -

Whit a new no that remin, connect

May - pul

y 1966

11111911

- Yeting Emmittre

SECRET

---

## Page 31

71

SECRET

Mitea conded fr Marchsagaint

Oranoi - Mateu recad euppert

tre Sera Dept requi from CIA

in 8954-1955 period

73

75t

76.

CIA deda + Warthento testgs ofie

Keny Committe

Maken may have told his atty - Ediard

P. Mezzan the detral di the planto

assis CASTRO VOi gangola

1 - Marchs

7- Maken

Selens in Eal 1963

11111912

Sydney Goltiel, Sanuel Halpen,

1 it - maghe(ihe Miskensky)

a Harvey ong he marines it

to (senze Rimane) apecialo aso

itat le martinet to Helm

---

## Page 32

77

SECRET

Booby-Trappea Sen Stell

De Fitzgerala, Chef SAS

he colacted TSD on thes

To A Source pay

fill furnisher bj:.

=/ Dep. Dui far Support

3) Gin'l Counsel

5) Cent Duran

WH durain

furnated

11111913

amend 7 usernes, Samuel reper, Tora

J.D: Colative,

Debun, Jams O'Conell, Sidney

Drool, taurence Arister,

John Warne, Noti Sances, Collar

---

## Page 33

SECRET

(secads)

Progeit Andas Rolando Caliela

78

79

Peron Cuba, Cubela sin-comilla

meeting arranges bz ADAWHIP/, (Ca

Tepero) - Cubela frien

Gibeli hell renty mayo en Cilan militas

the hoghes rank

Priget AMLASH grecono y criter

meeting belices

and Cubela

the manis metts os inclueve

Cubela sand thi it ste to vattino

80

do che jab

Me Suar

wa Cubelas case

fir. "The Ageny offeres boit

dest and codirect support fa Cubelis

Destas"

11111.914

Juro ita

*Cubeli cante to defent. CIA

wn fo the exfiltratin but calles ft

ecie a repat the Caban polie

knew y Cabela desme te difert t his

---

## Page 34

SECRET

P

8L

8/14/41

duel sendo mesange to le

мм.

that he want to till to afrent

in Paro i posibl

ммі

1ok'd te apprach Cubela

but me indesten from fies thit

actuall contacter

4/15/62

IMWAVE statin cable- statin

eye a Stelaekin 6/10/62.

6/27/62 FBI freeds to CLA

Cubel- went te defect

. FBl afrment

7/8/62

11111915

epetin) talks to TMWAUF slatin

z/рJ

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

1/13 - 14/02

waninight of 7amee

will acist Chuch defect

7/30 - 8/6/62

Cubela meet wo

on 8/1 - featg a Seisn

l objective a defectis

Cute changed to need h

4 place

84 Roaring) note - Cabela he water

to assas. Carlis Rodiguez (top -

ranking CASTRo subnderate) and Th

Soviet ambasador x abo FIDEL,..

li apers a con her made a

committent a plana

Cubel senter Le concean 111 be insel

87-8/9/62

Junthe meeting as SEct Strike en

+ Chan not erit.

4/TN

---

## Page 36

03

7

$4

$5

master messen

SECRET

clits

8

10 - 8/11/62

then assassinate in eithe

Call, Cubel found the terr

objemale (as reported l

Tract Le des not objectto Fatut

tern.

"Ot is conch noting

here that

перелін, д

enyirt con present at a sli

I melip at which the assue.

sinatin; Castro was diocose

between 7 Cube and (Vain

In he

true)

5/ 114 - 8/23/0203.

71111917

Comi

на жест

Pari (.

Cabela - Cubela refused SECRET

Cubela gwen S/W* demoliter Framins

---

## Page 37

P.

86

SECRET

8/29/u2 - Cubela leros Prague faHavani

9/5 - 9/8/6303 - Cuble set no Brazil

Since, - Mereaft Cubelas case

office

Cubela reluctant to nae S/ Wmesage.

beause he feared efficieng y Cuban

Pote Chronop

Cubela venter to appraia (Rama

Swin

21

intelligence aso

as - Cubele

9/14/63

extended vacatin-

9/10/03

11111918

Cubel write lepr

he want ama

polite t dosn't want to bed you freid

aguen

SECRET

---

## Page 38

89

SECRET

P.

87

16/3/63.

963

ni Paris to see Cubela

ass piecent were

Abelser

Lita Cibels on

10/18/63

Cubel cable cants to meet seen US opul

Silt stings the condit

And be made

10/13/63 =

t Have AMLAsit

10/17/67

insourane

10/29/03

11111919

Des Fitzgerabe, Chef SAS, arrassa

to meit Culela in pari to gee him A

was in Par sperficall, to goe Cabela assuranes

Lewarter.

Fugercle conte diseaselan

saSECREt need to hau

---

## Page 39

90

SECRET

Meeto, Lean i at eras nose

Fuzzener used allo

Clah

.1.:

Resin Sanite, was the interprete

Steenstprisent at the meeting

made memo greeting n 11/13/63

United Stats is prepared to renda all

neceong astone toang anti-

Ammunist Cuban group which

succeeds in newtiging the present

Cubar leadership and assumes

sufficient entrol to note the reted

Sits torende the cossane it is

prepared to give. It we emplasier

that the abve suppot will be

Маті та

y pared Cup

o effected and The grou

cooler o.

na practio to regul

tim and suppat. I.

11111920

"Thse involved nw crecall the perpose

1ut meeters as being omething quite

different pm hitappears chari

recodeprepard at abut the time, the

Cubel spot repeatedly q thered fa

ства

---

## Page 40

9/

SECRET

7uzzeala go la toed Cublla tRA U.S

go comer hacen part pan atlanget

m costro's life.

Ba temeno seate that Cubela

Wantes to kaos chat technical suppat

mi cmed pivide hen

11/14/63 - warnurgtmetepet,

n N.y. C. (Wainiright) entai

report revel Cubies

inter

92

nit berg given technes aseder

fu the pertin "Cepelin) said

tha Cabe dielt enstantes

o this point!

1/19/ 63 -

Inside Cula - cachenes

uretter repasa

AMLASH operatin be kept Fita misimun

11 20/63- Follo summa 1o

faita alas lingo the heghpo

---

## Page 41

92

93

SECRET

Hunn, Halpen,

settle.

M. use, Bluck Leaf 40, Common roched

Plan at actin stage in 11/20 -

Helpen ASi

dermi sta

theme take n

him the folening das

the made it up..

O delieres i

to

i retainer too proto

returning the deone to hin - hi

belias Le was tola Culela word not

accept te diece

11/22/63

Gameter in Paris - neet Cubelicact

afternoo

9Ba

(Saneloz) stover per to Cubela k beheis

le acripted it beat said he conild nit

take is to Cube.

He Cubelinatimpies

w/ the deorieo.

vant loaded. Cubela con eppertes to

supply he un poison

11111922

sit mentin pen a poser.

---

## Page 42

97

98

SECRET

3/2/64 - Ho cate that bigh pover

rene man en regioles oy

3/13/04 5 MWAVE can lienh rifls

down oo must mo fum te

cache

3/12-3/21/64-1Anliak crale

emphaer

4/24/44 - (epetin) bruger temeet

Caen gaze Potens mange

fo Belgian FAL sulsna

5/5/64 TSP made the silen

6/9-6/11/64

2:

I Anlash cacke put doin

oct ta FAL autonate iplo

but olens not includes.

8/144 -

S/W message fur

(AMTRUNK Me veney o caced

8/30/64 Manuel Cuttine

# asorcute:

goto 7 rancen 10/2/64to

meet with desident membed

castro regime -

11111924

(albeto BANce Bimong).

SECRET

---

## Page 43

SECRET

98

1112/64

Cubelain Prague for meeters

shit woul

na fa droscents. Artine tende

100

12/4/64 -

Antire des travd to Grope

and mut the droodent

12/6-12/7/64

a x Cutel

meet on Paris

Cubele wants to continue: co/heplana

Told that U.S wild not get involes

nts plam. Cubila pand f Li

milder Lilp. he could to oh ebowler

12/10/04 -

meno enduals

4PV

/ 0/

12/17/64 - Cubelax

11111925

• to carte ate permily 2

---

## Page 44

102

103

SECRET

12/21/64 Artere + Cubels meet in Madrid

fo furst thre

12/30/64 - Cubela x Antire meet

azai in Madica

Citie rent meeting te

ches 7la. m 1/3/65

Cubela told Gitime de Ladn't

been proveded selena - 16

Antine anerget Cubel silene

the ioned take it back to Cuba

If one, ne get antle silened

rifle, antione comes cache it

in Cula f Cubela

Par

tele pati

рини

2/2/65 -

a meet Cubela n

Перехи) - Cubele eay.

reached agreemat is/ artin

Artine to prode pachage in retio

Cubela to Like Mack Th

a peronl

luzzage.

71111928

2/11/65

16-71

Liter delorea 3 partngs to Cubelan

Madur - Cubeli

SECREY

---

## Page 45

103

104

105

Zin

SECRET

3/4/65 -

15-2

3/15/65 - Pn

carls that

Rafall Garcia-Bango Quinte a Madua

Jim Cute - (strato

claried to bein contact / desident

to Cubela -

defenses Santo lofficente who we kicked

it a Cuba

- Name-lent between Cubela x T

gambling-syndiate pess

4/65- Ha dears to term allentacts

wif Key member of Cabiligaup

" Ot had beame increising appre

that Che circle of Cubano wrotre

af Cubelas plans and of CIA'S

ascociatin us/ Ten was ever wider.

Les dia - frene or

it opinise Hernandez tel

lou to ClA about Contait lo

abele friend in farid fit

relayes Cubela message fr

CA that in a patine kill

ut wanted

auan ell: 5-8444227

support ...

---

## Page 46

P.

106

1.0.7

1.08

109

3/10/00

...

110.

111.

SECRET

C/A fels don't indicate what kind

of Chelp Cubela wanted fromitte

CIA!!

6/23/65 HQ caolito slatino enceined

re termination of contait w/member

I the Cubela group

Reute repris

Cubar security, poll

invested Cubela x Güin Who Crape

3/7/05 - Cubela + Juia on trial

3/8/65 exerpsguitio

Cratro sends lette to crunt suggesting

so death sentences for the archoes

•Cubeck 7 Duin get 25 year,

Q Whee s thi sile

ut was burners my.

Discion, dosas. at High- level got

meeting

11111928

* Cubeláo dealingi co/CIA

fin 3/61-11/64 mentined in the Cras

p... Isasore a Cubelai

priced cnnection.co/trip to Europea

lately. Not even SECRET

hint of the ball

---

## Page 47

179

130

131

BZ

133

SECRET

"Phase Two s aosociated → Nawes

din/ite Epecutive Atten Cape

develged in spine to colit

House ugg.

' When Robat Penned coro brefe

intended loin us. cu

element. this ion not ane do No

Ito PLise TWo, which was alre

well unt way at the time Denie

Was hefed,

11111929

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SECRET

FER speculite on renom ya no/ches

evidene

at tual

112

2) held on #/ 30/64-303 Commulo

Orobably at White in sil

S5(A) meeting

You Parrot Minuts of the neilin

make no mentinos the auge

Mi Crex Hare recall Me Lamara

raised the sabject - als

note, shiv it was mentined

Maroo

siles atta Room in Pentas

Crotio 9

wher

---

## Page 49

13

117

115

"SECRET

me Cre took immediate exception

to the discussin x apte neti

Devoro croceration

The come said that term

ver used but alias amalued

to sean everths.

gut in Cube

8/13/meno memo fum Landalet Nave

Rebat Hunter at Stoo, Yer (Mars at

mero assignes rep indigle

paperminion sugges nell. y

uban splatin

deleter

tens leaded Have, hospiceles.

last

peated tries to raise the mith of

assenting Castro a Hawe a

He melt sevent weeks" Saves on

he alwas avorder suit disarosens

---

## Page 50

*SECRET

116

7/36/07

303 committie nelias - Petegerawa

secretang

reference as menuto t 4/10/64 memo at

asaas..

meditopuminet Cuban

L/A only adolesent in platino

-118

119

171

172

The saem Pearon ste

The P pable Romificatino gitte Vanbling

Segadecate Operatin

O'conell

participatin in Phases

2) Makeu dedn t knig PhaeII nevr

end get fim Paelli

3o auspens Rivali + Maza

Festo ato krens what

11111932

---

## Page 51

*SECRET.

122

123

124 -

125=

1.26

127

and Underoon and Pennon thrlp

and latting and the ming ne

aloo drinking an tillis to 00

renspaperman friend.

The Phillipine Native Burean Onver

Lan a Puerto Rican in custody uh clai

Le palimpatien Car ine pola

trasaa. Renned, a reliliation for

2 Kennedy allempt n Chatro a

br

The Puerto Recanci probabl, going ta

---

