# 180-10141-10247

## Page 1

180-10141-10247

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Patrick

L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative

TO:

(Officer designation, room numbor, and

building)

Mr.

Shepanek

0/ SA/DO/O

Tube:

2.

4.

a shelt s

5.

Chris-CoG

7.

9.

10.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

8

2 30 PH "73

Counsel

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

DX6 - Green

EXTENSION

1133

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

MAR

DATE

8 March 1978

COMMENTS

(Number

each

comment to show

from

whom

1o whom.

Draw a line ocross column aftor each comment.)

Attached is the summary

which

Patricia Orr,

HSCA,

prepared.

Could you please

review them as soon as

possible as she wants to take

them out of the building.

Please forward them back

Please advise me of

any delays.

Mar 138

same

Chased Raghe

12.

13

•14.

15.

ORA

3-6:

610 USEFENDUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

L

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

10141-10247

---

## Page 2

SECRET

+ 2/24/78

I.

Pedro Dias hoar

201

# -24 04.59

Routing s Recond Sheet.

_to Hunt reud 30/10

forwarded 2 nov...

of Diar lauz file.

- GA Watch office 24 00t5%

into that plane pitie

by Pedro Diaz Lanz to

drop laflers and prob bombs over Havana 24.0ct 55.

hay

Castro

Faily.

26 Get t9 piloted by haun to disrupt.

- Dispatch...

23 Out 59.

attached sample of tatters dropped foom..

Diaz Lam's

plene.21. 0ct 59

= Dispater. 18 sept 59.

to Chick WHD from Havana

cos

re: operatiouae...

DI from

crypts:

PDL

subt

said he had fore to trans and talked aDL.

Hosts; who told him that he needed a hecw..

his liams arganisation, resou de lod

in the lubar... Air

to join him. He instructed

The subject to see his

Foce who was willing Habana contact and rethe

for offices expiltration

Subj... asked ess

Habana contact Dita

capability, and

Station

assusness

that

---

## Page 3

2/24/78

SECRET

Pedro Draz,

Lanz

DDO

-described..og

leater of group, most inte

Group was cautioned abont need.

for secunty:

"However, There t a dose and apparenth

unshakeable relationship.with. people like

Frank Forini $ Othen people n/ whom

abont Fiorini speeit.

recogning-

But as and 7 (sIc)

tasies too much..

proceed with This

be frequente

around hus grow

have one

thers and The wond of there peoper

that.he.on

being informed of their achrities"

indee da deni

- In Manch

wend to.

deal re:

-58 mil 10

tat smally paid thim letters of credit.

Dispatch.

4 Ay 59. To chief WH Dis from Miamilka

Report os Miami base involvement in Arrival of

pedro Diaz Laws in U.s.

Lazz party- Diaz Lauz his nife Tania, Sergio Draz

Brell; Carlos Echegoyen..

Echegoyen; Bruell had

charsered. boat to

pick ap biaz.

_tanted to

hoed.part

woe pany several Myros

- Diaz concerned

LADALUM.

1 GDARBOR. assiSted hiding Diaz

Army nsita,

Diar despote Cit's attempts to Ut him reas

Tentative plan. was Diaz would taken fon INs,

put in a secure plece, mored to another. area

in cour a to tre juice veno

intensire.interrogation

he собе

garfaced. Gen. Cabele expected to discuss matter.,

---

## Page 4

(

2/24/18

Lauz

207

PLDL

...ROS

ADCHAR. Subi alLo

said.

exfiltration into from as TODXORE contacts.

that 1QD13(43)

.in Miami.

ODACID

- DOC.

cross ref for

201 - 259/20

re:

Ricard

(Lanz 201 file)

Luis LORIA

31, passport 0955%

* Diar Lann

valle - ca.

1928, аз

age 32,

passport 10693. left Costa Pira for Miami

24. Dec 58 and rechtered costa Rica from

Fla a

Mexico. on 31 Dec 58

remo. for record

7. Ang 54.

Re: conversatia

approx one we Drie

betw.

Eugene R. Gontalez and de. Alfonso Moscoso,

fomer. amb. From Ecuador to Us ex brotea

of former President. Galo Plaza of Ecuador.

Moscoso... told me in strict confidence that has

rea approx

5100, 000 from Dro-Batista

# Festify

sefore u.s. long.

- Dispatch

QOCOVE

Re: Meeting n/ @DOLAS, a DCHAN,.

- subis will resist groups.

positions.

in The Caribbean Sear

---

## Page 5

2/24/78

SECRET

Pedro: Diaz Lanz

DDO

-described as leater of group, most intellige,

Group was cautioned about need

for secunty:

"However, there it a close and apparenth

unshakeable relationship. with people like

Frank Borini $ Othen people 0/ whom

Fioriki sa threat in!

tarves too much. But as and I (sic) wre

proceed with This.

it has to be done with.

The expectation titon and thes are going to

that he and

- In ranch ODCOrE went to.

10 regotiate deal re:

annot read a tint

Deal cort..

88 mil which

IP cove persmally paid thm lettes of credit.

_- Drspatch

4 Ag 59.

76 Chief WH Dir From Miami (karles

Report on Miami base involvement in Arrival of

pedro Diaz Lana an U.S...

Lazz party- Diaz Lauz hirwife Tania, Sergio Diaz

Bruell; Carlos behegoyen.

Echegoyen: Brule had

charsered.... boat to

pick ap biaz come.

wanted 10

-Diaz concerned

CADALUM.

, ADARBOR assiSted hidin otale

Diar

despite CAs attemptsto. It him rest

Tentative plan.. was: Diaz would taken from INS,.

put in a secure plece, mored to another, area

in court, put three intensire interrogation

ther renoved. to foreign aner where...

he would be

fesfaced..

Gen. Cabele expected to discuss matter usu

SEGRET

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

2/24/78

Redro.. Dizz Laur.

DDO

e: turn over of Diaz to karnla! complications the

= different versions of.!

what passed betw

Gen. Cabell

and Gen swing; appearance of Eastland.

committer rep.

ride bie Learne.

wash Post - 7-24-59-" Defectity.

-- Memo for Record 15 July 1954

re: Testimony of Diaz Lane

kominentcommunists-

(testified 14f July)

Endel, Rane, Lilma Castro, Ernesto Guevara, Anton

Aunez., Armando Hart, Manuel Pineiro, Amman

Rimino valder, Ellio comer Ochoa,

Pina, fru Escalona,

fun LLanus cartos Frangn oem. 443-70

David salador,

Bayo, Frank Torre...

article...

Mal 59. "verdadera Estatura crica.

Pedro Tates Diaz Laur

- CIA.

Memo. of Conversation. 10 Ful 59.

Terce migrate 1rt Ho

Dir of intellig

- Draft demo for Record. Hk linittaled)

8 File to real Dom danz caBiaz in Miami =

Byers $to wil: Sergia Diar

Carlos Echagora (former

incian in lusan AFonell. Who wad abtained boatin

Miami which was used fo bring Diaz from Cuba, had.

INs: they

were accompanied by tank Pinine, ton

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

2/4/78

Pedro Diaz Lanz.

DDO

Castro.

Prion 10 Diaz departure the luban tir Force.

purchased one c-46 and one B.25 aircrat

in Miami area. Averatin Pyto body bet.

Porinis nаmе....

Fromine...

# over te

Fioriniasked Byers

(

Discussion.

Diaz

Paper - 1 Ful

Re Diaz-publicity e

- Caste fion Din rega is starina 3 til 59.

- Requests max. press and radio exploration of

defectio 20 Fume of Diaz Lanz.

w/ recommende

tions on pasticlare of story.

- Dispatch 2 Fuly 1959 to Chief WHD from COS Hasai

re Diaz Lanz-Mise .....

enclosso 2 copies of lite

from. Dizz sant to cuban president.

Cable.. 22 Tune 54: To Dir.. from Havana

re: departure of Diaz Lauz

Diaz. Lauz

Cable 21 June 59 to Dir from

Havana

w/help.of.

Хіт Brye,

no publickly.

SECHET

---

## Page 8

C

(

SEGNET

2/24/78

Pedro Diaz hanz

DIO:

= Information Report 18 Jun 59

Re:

Chiet of Air Forces. Confidential statements abert need

for....

counter revolution againot. Castro.

at engra / source.

regarding. symptomo is

Castro's communir rendencies.

- Cable_7 Jan 591

to Dir from santiago de Cuba:

Re: le fall Batta Stanned Ba

2. Cubani

sie force demobilizet. Wie se built up drom.

- Cable.....

Rept... 3 tous..

l1 chats,

Inencan captised - of abans- Pedro Ruiz Lanz

probas Diaz lanz) and Amer = Frauk. Riorini. Fishini

nased co-pilot and anner. plane C-45.

Fiorini.knom

Of nieres absence name.

"Francisco" among labanicardo de la Lorie

Cable 22 Nor 58

Apatzingas Airpos Michoacam...

Diaz .

Lanz, Frank Fiorin.

Cable. 14.N00.58

Rept Richarda de la Lorie - brought air plane phoecing

Ariz., scheduled for departure iz or 13 Now. Par. Verdeur

чех.

entente tenezuela.

Diaz Lanz will prok. acconf

de la horie.

- Cable 11. Nov 58

*Drazhauz

Ricardo de la lorre

Vin San Francioco: Fiorini left tex

---

## Page 9

(

SEGRET

for. Frisco bu

car night 4 Nor, meet pilots.

borenor Hotel

De la Lore dud Diaz so inpia, triz rei plane

- Cable 2 Nor 58 to Dir from hex City

Man trav.

w/ subis adentifiedad. Frank Brosini

Men prob. pedro huir Diaz Lauz and Ricardo de

horie, poss. going henezuela.

- Cable 3000 38 to Dir from.

tex cit

Ric. de la horie and Diaz Lauz an.

rex cit buy far

27 0ut 58. Believed had wish trouble at bonde

Unidennified man accompanied then

adle 1 my 50 to Din from dan Juan

addresses.

Diaz. Lanz;

pive of Beecherat plane N-48-9, who asts kingston

open and believed by tamaro i on bong

Castro contier or pilsts.

Personer greetings.....

201 tile request

To.

malysis. section...

5. Jae 1959

...nonsensitine

---

## Page 10

SECRET

suitized

PEDRO DIAZ. LANZ

- News artides -

DDO

, News - 21 April 1915 by Paul Meskil.

- Dispatch to Chief from Chief

DELETED - GET FUL

COPY

Progress._. Rept.

1-31 Aug: 63.

W/. help of.

Piorini- able to keep informed of

actisties of Diaz Laus bros. in abempts to mont

air raid over cuba..

' Information.

Then passed to local security agencies in time

for them to thwart. plans.

- Daily summary altus 63

Plight. B1 28 Ful

, over Havana aborted- bob,

ledfeet raid planned.

Plans:

Postponed. to 31 fuhy on..

Maration lat as deton

V Forin..

to head.

for FB1 suncilen

Lans bros to leave cars at hose to appear as

but will attempt to

practice.

size.. and filled wy nuts and bott for strapher

Ranion Garcia 1 former Cuban aireines pilor

to have participated in raid

- 8 may 63- Fiorim told source he had bean

approached on Marcos to parea up diference

and cooperate in "anti-casso actino," Sax

---

## Page 11

C

SECRET

може

befo sin only pedro would be pitt...

befone from

turn indireet channels. Pant bros.

assitting in

sale of yacht.

"sorini had been working as the bros. until a falling

now evidently being repaired.".

. - Memo - re:

i Robt Swanner, Robe Thompson Riots

20 Mar

allegedly shit down ones

Cuba in

196г.

- Memo to S.J. Grogan.

., adut to Director

- muesigation.by. Us. auth.

hampered by storie -

Wm. Jounson,

made spect! over flight it

Suanner, Fiorini

for. leafle.

drop.

Porke Claims

8 Dec. swanner intercepted in Nassau teet in

Nassan....

_Johnson,

Morke, Fiorim

permit. to. fly.to Great Exuma Island, but penst

10. Dec....

еане found. on norman ca

4 Dec.. Themptow flew to 77 Laude dale to pic

i do son, soone it no fee group,

Andros Island.

Fas i and jesse mine to Seni

mistini, Folinson chaster plane in

Plane Han

pattern over.la

swanner

and plane until. har 63- story plane shot den

---

## Page 12

SECTET

Biorini,

In Fast

Johnson, have had none ..

Porke dain UA Sponsorship.

(

March 62

repling. Enger

mdication. from Castros specke

what happened.

info ou other.

re a herefereness, including:

"elements of incident as

- Ms._

Torini to

having driver swanner

Ofat Laude dale to Load

bout w/ leafless

- Mr swanners reple trip to Anchos Island

wI had for and friend of her husband

Ref.

to rantino -prob. John lineent hartino

renanced tot yo poten is; released

as reato.

пы ampld by CiA.

---

## Page 13

SENNET

bolume I

12/9/60 Cable to Pipector fr. WAvE

Hamilton impressed u mans sinnity & potential

CODBIAS PDRIAS enthusiastiz over ref

trip but wanted very conful preparation i

order to avoid any poss. fail. Suggested amph

advance publicity order condition kost

governents to granting necessany usas

and landing permits.

QD Bias speeding up work on A/ Which

can be ready 0/A 15 Dec. Plane

can accomodate number named WAVE

2051

C/s comment: Has approved peanning

Diaz Lanz propaganda.

"Flight of truth"

as proposed HAS by TWICKER

12/2/60 Cable to Dir fI WAVE

Carlos. Oscar Echepyen Leon plans expose

State

in leading magazine..

r:.kuBARK.crai

wilsay - KUBARK backing AMIRON (Ray or

MRR) M funds & erripment AMIRONI

Leftist f Comminit dominated froup.

and "Fidelistas sin Ride" " RUBARK.

fives AMIRON Half million per month.

cores operating costs.

Pereal number plane.

---

## Page 14

varone

ANDID

Diaz Lauz

CLA

furnished AMIRON by IKUBARK and

location..

i Rever

• wil reveal training sites Guat, DBPRIE

personnel working / AMDIP I and

AMIRON plans for invasio Cuba

- Expose AM DID, for buying off

KUBARI personnel Wash.

- Claims discussed above $. 5 Nov 62

invasion plans AMiRON for Guat. N)

journe, late out 62..

Two men trome KOBARK

assured

Echegoyen funds would be w/held

from support AMIRON. Capable camy.

ont threat

once close Diaz hans; but hom

distrusts hien:

dould attempt discredit Echegoyer

6 Dee 60 cable To Dir from GOLD.

recommend candidates to certain fieldo.

Laure- Enrique. Laca

sident- For Ignacio Paro.

•Soldier. Manuel Artime

Professor - oscar de la lege

Cathol. actiz: Ennigne Pos

GOLD-Sounding out opinion/desirability.

of induding traz hour specifically.

---

## Page 15

_SECRET

- 6 DeC 60 Cable N0 IMGOLD Havana to

Dir.

Rodriguez Tamaya "Er Mexicano" offering Giz.

info he Diaz hanz group. Report would out

Claima female friend Diaz hanz working

Miami airport also Giz aut

- suggest Diaz hanz be cautioned re our

dowsts loyalty his immed. friends.

→ Dispotch 29 NoV 60 10 Chief WH div fr.

Chiet OS, Havana.

varona says of laws- "a young man,.

somewhat in perous, soho is hour

working with us.

23 NOV 60 Cable to JMASH from DIR.

"1. Disapprore para 3%7 ref. HAS does

-_ not..

desire additional cuban pilots does

not with five Diar lour and company

false impression by instituting loen

limited training program

2. AMVANG2 advised, HOS he passed

POET

---

## Page 16

SEURtI

U8. 15000 Obtained from private sources tor

Prepair B-25. Further States aireraft.

repd, lane intends make leafet

drop on or about 30 NOV. Possible

KUBARKS funds parsed. AMVANG-3

foor prop use how being diverted repai

airerats.

3. H9S policy re no ODYOKE sponsored

overflight from BPPRIME SHU Stands

MASH requested take immed. steps.

to stop flight. If cannot accomplith

this by pesuasion notty local auth

poss.

such a flt to enable them

impound aircraft. Essential aurid

poss. such indep. air ops jespardize

our air ops including us ope

сосна

4. Reatize Lanz may be polit. asset.

It so can best be used that purpose

w/in AM RASP.

WH. comment: Twicker states Lanz

requests funds to repair. personally

oned 3.25. at CoSt of Us $5.000,

Also Wants US $2, 240 to give hink

training to 9 pilots to 3 mos

SECHET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

- Cable 24 NOV 60 to Dir frVMASH...

1- Draz laur pined AMRASP bringing

pilots: Abel Hera Corton, Frank

Fiorini; Francisco Lano, Evangeliste

Mursuli; Ramon P. Fuentes, Nesto

Awarez, Fernando Garcia.

Marcos Diaz hanz also jonad

2 shortly after joinine AMRASP, Diaz

rygested to AMHAWK est. 07

per mission soup compras

above personnel, all of whom,

according to Diaz are qualified

as Ale mechanics. The gron

would drop AMBASP leafrets.on

small towns & cooperatives & could

Hy cargo mistious when reguired.

3. To prepare themselves for stand be,

radiness Diaz has requested

AMHAWK ($ AMHAWK, has gueried

TWICkeT) for fundo to: (A) rehab

the personally: onned B-25 A/Co

Diaz at cost of approx. OLSEND.

(B) Provide pilote N/ Linke

trainer time 18 pilots at 10hs

none at was of Dis sper

and (c) Counte purchase

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

af Hoas egnipped Cessra 180 $/or 210

bor infil /exfil ps.

1 iaz is proceedine w/ B-28 rehab

na loan $2,500 frome Mignel Argel

quevedo, for which, acbording

AMCHIRP-I, he wikh air drof

Bobernia over Caba..

s whie raeice preaent pte ae.

minimum maintain flight

profiziency Thit integrated fronp whose

custent i future acticities could be

monitored & directed by the newly-

established joint Cubasf Amer ops

section of the mil. cominision.

Beyond being a pibtt.

Diar Lanz exúdes

a certain mustigne whrich The press has

been guich to recos. Thas he is

a curreno propaganda I polit. asset

as wele as a potentidl milit. asser.

AMHAWk commented somewhat

epuisacey That Diat Lams forised,

AMRASA Dimarilz to sowve hi

econ. pprobs. Howerer TWICKER bllieie

Diaz lughly motineted i recofrizes.

SSCNET

---

## Page 19

- SEGRET

AMRASP as mainstream anti-Castro ors.

Temp. solution has been to assign Dizz

group to transport commission, which now

functims under MIL Commission,

but funds are not currently budgeted.

for link traines time.

7. Request Has approve imital link

trainer refresher of DuS 960, 15 hrs.

each pilot, then monthly cost of D4S 640.

Not likely training to extend beyond 3 mos.

P. Feel political advantages Keeping Diar

satistied and cooperative well worth

above relatively minor expenditure

- Document transfer 1 cross-ret - 27 Sep -60

Diaz ranz made offer of assist. by susi

of: 201-829376

120ct 60 cable to Dir

fr. Londar

Re: developments in t

- Dr. Sancher trango has left FRD following

a disagreement w/ other leaders. He is now.

joining... forces w/ groups led by Diaz Law,

Conte Aquero... Others:

- barona appts coord. of FRD - in Spite opp.

Fusto Carillo.

Redevelopments re: fighting in GaSs-

SECRET

---

## Page 20

•SECHET

Memo for record re: Rept reeting w/Sergio

Si Bernard e, Be hansen

• 7Q Sept 30

in t2041-27-82-07

Spole to Pojas before planned to departure

to Miami 70 see ricardo Lorie, in an

effort to give other side Than Anti-FIS

Rojas relatively objective but on balance

favored New of yourg revolutionares lik

Mianza de Liberacion. Analyzed Situttin

7 MRR accurathSAMBIDDY-L

became rep. in FRD for ARe, ther

repitanted ond, own views to exclusin of

Men interests. Lamented That number of

spring me li. China, Diaz Lanz,

Mino Diaz (Besum.,

no Diazis mission)

Raja kneese

wasted by

not being putto use. top as result of

differences beto. young revol. & FRD.

"Los riejosa Politicos in FRD 100 far to

rght. Asked it us. might lend

support to more Them one group. Was

sea t militan eat perha

perhaps

Rianza for

could se fire suppos

Rojas

inity w/ FiD and young

cool. not poss. This time - Too anti-

ERD sentiment. Fell politicos of ERD

seff-reeking. Young root suffering bitterness,.

KARACT

---

## Page 21

SECRET

disillisionment

Aguggested petter meeting with ERD-Menses

but not s principals- lounter suggests made

Rojas suggest priends, es: Conte Aguero, horie

to approach FRD again

- Memo 19 sept: 60 for: C/WH/4/c1 tro Gerard

Re: Regues/ for PBl check

Drover.

(NOTE: Ans. to check on Moya in Panegues file)

Mianca people reped in town. Diaz lanz,

Corre Aguero, Panegue (Drejo"), Maginio "Nino"

Diaz. - could be reached at address of tas.

Anna Maja:

_Indicates. Rend into that

Parque may be lastro plent hygest

Bure Check on horse and furs.

loja, ac

wel as furnish into on Panegue and for

activittes in US..

Panefues NY address: San Dafael HRL,

65 w. 45M St, RmIE Tel-JA7-4800

Memo for: C/WH /4/PA

1 SEPT 60

fr: NH/4/E0 - John F. Mallard.

Me: Cubano detirons of meeting w/ State Dept

Reps.

Sonor Chinea, "Pane gre, Diaz Lan z,

Conte Aguero desire meeting. Indicates St Dept.'

pesonnel nave no desire to see Cusans. Author

indicates desire sive casans cold should-

SECHET

---

## Page 22

SEGHET

- Cable

no encourayement. cannot operate ridependent

w any type of Os suppot or am tance.

6 SEP 600 to Dir from MASH - rexilit

Indicates "Caris" in military statt -

relations AMEER. alance AMCIGAR!

times of auth. I Herp. MASH committees

badly smarted rie resent insistence

AMEER his perogative as AMCIGAR

member

General ill feeling + distrust senior AHMASPERS)

toward lAMEER.

aeso appliés "his boys"

In military field these include oscar Diar

(ground),

•Orlando Garcia (recruitry),.

and Felipe Lidal Santago (naval.

Most immed. isue - Pedoo Diar Lanz Who

walked in recruiting ofe last nk augusts

volunteered to join AMRASP pilot group as an

individual. Milit afreed Dian hanz fine

pilot, joining iMRASP, political plum"

since he founding member competing "Hiara!

Nobregas and lillatara only likewar

At unture AMEd Stepped in, order ld HILar.

accept Diaz lant, succeeded puttily all

seror mit. staff members in oppo?

lame still unresolved.

SAHIFT

---

## Page 23

SEGRET

AHRASPERS afree meeting absolute necessity do

Mvalidate Tueir positimo nJans AMCIGAN E

body je parsiculant, their posiziono in respect.

midividual ANCIGAR menDers (AMEER $

- Cable Ang 22, 60 to Dir from Havana

Re: Armando Lora Hemander - riro man

He was close to Raul Chibasi; maintains contact

with Draz Lanz. orf. resistance in Cusa. Reges

assillance

Cable

My 1 60 10 Dic from Marana.

Disseusin in AMYUM-I group more

exteusive the finducial troubles.....

Lonie/AMPDF

split caused Strono internal reperessiono

in termo AMYOM-1

group receiving via.

their channels from MASH that ODVOKE]

now sapporting Lorie, Nino Diaz, Diar Laur..

-PRD form-control de Personal - Pedroluis

Diaz Lanz

- Nemo for Chief WHD Re Mix. Roarke (sic) 5r

6. Re 60

fr. ID Esterine!

In interniew of Porke w/rep. of 00/e in NYS.

Porke said Diaz lour mot desering of U.S.

support: Kuono Diaz Lanz; planaig to

SEGRET

---

## Page 24

SEGRET

appear on T.V. program NYC. 5 Fly.

Said somora have agreed to five Dazlan

mil. base in Nicara. Gill call it Committe

to RescueL. Ame from commenion or

similar. Rorte Claims Spraille

Brade

tentatively afreed to support

-

Cable 28 tune 1960 to MASH fri Dic

Pedro Diaz Lauz not connected ERD in ou

way Karley wille brief. WH Comment: concened

surfacing in Catta lica of org. headed Sy PDL

- office rema - 24 Je 60 to Chief WH/FI DirTin.

ATTN. 1305 Reynold From: Chief contact

Divisim

100 (L/A Branch)

Re: Pedro Diaz Lanz.

From FroM. Ashcass- signed by Hange

A. HER McCraw.

In intriew, requesed by lant to aok "what

people Think 8 should do, expresed desire to

work to tve throw Castro. Not very enthid tate

about anti-castro frente of. in rexiro coz

Resertatious. about trustworthiress of Artime

Message. to the People of Cuba i Brothers of

America as the Casan Constitutinal:

Crusade...

Signed 6/16/60. by PDL,-

---

## Page 25

SECRET

Andr Abel Mera Coron; Capt Rabel J.M.

Gonzalez.

- Cable i8 tine 60 t0 Dor fri Mashi!

18 fune Diaro Las Amenica camies

ad surfacing proup called Cruzada

Carama Constincional Sighsed S PDlY

conton, Gonzalez.

table indicates concern for need of controlled

3, coordinated propajanda effort.

Avoid premature releases

- Dispatch 12-Fan60

Chief WH Dir, from Miami NHD Rep

Re: Contact w/ QD Bias 10 JAN60

by Patrick 1. Kannley

Indicates bitter fand betw.

ADBIAS $ ODCOVE

ALD QOCOVE assaulted DOCHAR:

Drscussed ODCHARs recent trip to Guat. QDBIAS

ware but personally opposed these sine

pocHAR took alony Serge Bruell and

Finini. INS took Fiorinis passportcher

he re-ented the Us. Apparentl

they are"prepared to throw the bott at

Fiorin" Forini in real danger of losing

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECRET

his citizenship

Croses INs also taly action af. hasteners)

Indicato DCHAN has ideas of lus un,

and 9BB/AS does at try to stand in

his way.

7 Тил 60

10 Dir fri MASH - Cable

PDL. abont to initiate fund-raising

campaign for group.

Suggests raise a XDI GORAS

onous probs arising out of premature

support anti Catro novenest geneales,.

PDL Speeifically.

WH Comment. Ref indicates Dazlane

preparing launch offeneive afainst castro

from Guatemala

13 May 60 table to Dir from: 111st flavana.

repts- PDL plans to land Wen prepared

fore 10-150 cusans. A84P- poss- end of ta

- 13 May 60 Cable.

_ to Bir: fre Havana

Rept MR broke contact w/ MAR

due discovers it hearily penetrated

Note: ref: cable stated dr. Santrago Rey

Perna rept 6 ray Sroup of Cano

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

undergoing guerilla warfare trainty

Miami area sender command Diaz Laiz

- Cable May R 60.

to dir fr: Miami

Action: NHS CMr. Phillips, WH DiV

notified 2035, i May

hummany activites PDL indicating action

imminent

freeing discussion betu. Miepro,

Piedro, Paget re: support for ta-

US 50,000 mentioned as goal. Not

Known whether funds handed over to

PDL to: Rept funds Obtained

Rept - force-perhaps 100 men, formed S,

PDL

Under supervision Forini- PD- 11 pose

288785c0 perein

5s0 prandü since :

much egripment issued to men berry

finen field training outskirts tame s

Morini- ren racinated. Have 2

boats, 2 airerate at their esposal

Believed DL. contemplating more.

directe, from FLA to Cuber Gast

mentioned - stragens base for expeditin

contacted FBI. Border Patro re: developman,

They will contact Hominic PDL. Unde

SEARFT

---

## Page 28

SECRET

-

circumstances do not intend to contact FR

myserf.

saffests close attention both psychd. $

polit: implications 07 such expedit. moveras

by Ph. Question railed whether some

action should se taken to "susmarine"

D. Ls plano. - on promise "WelestaDL

thoughly discredited sota in Cuba s

i more resp. exile elements é has consistent

provided "effectire peg from castro fort

propaganda".

1, effect move by plat

This zime might have on JMARC

plannin. timinin. Hss, Implicatin

of pors.

accomodatin n/ ouat. Govt

am POL need caretul consideration.

"In light of poss. harmful results of.

Poi venture, "may with consider proposing.

coordinated actin by U.S. fort to

frustrate this before it gets off the

fround."

Neus article Miami Herald 10April 160.

"18 Castroi Time Zua OuTs

- Memp for 0c1 ha DOP

30 rach 6°

Re :

CIA involvement in case of lates.

Piraz Lanz, former Depty.

Direetor of

SECRET

---

## Page 29

Sculicl

Cuban Revol. Air Force and Applicant for 0.S.

permanent resident noza.

Tune 33

PDL.

resigned - as Chief of CuS. New. AF, Sled to

Us. Manor went into hiding.

tavartsked for help

To US. Exfiltrated him ma skippine line

• Arr. Tampa, Fla 27 July 54;

• Depriefed

in Tampa 1 Miami. Presented himseef at

INs offer

triami, regulatis asylum which

was granted.

like i chilhen left Cuba Ages for

rexico, then joined MOL on 248p7

59. 4e

MOL Left US na New Orleans for RexCit

to obtain Or resident noa to

allow him to return.

kept Doticars rebuttal Fact Comment

frombentuithat ClA said MDI mtends to

untinue warlike Tactisithe is ablato

retum to the US"

- Cable 26 harch 60 to: Dir framriami-

HAVA 3140

See PDL as forlory bewildered, outcast.

Excommunicated by ODCOVE for involing

self w/ Batistiano.

a sign

Cajigas/

Pedrara.

"unity'. pledges but was clearly

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECHET

in middle that circus, finally kissed off

by Pedraza as little boy playing man's

Them it willing take onder did Puser

Believe PL constitutionally incapable of

latter.

Believe inclusins of PDL, and

be somewhat menace.

-Memo for the record 21 Feb60

Re: telephone report from Miami on Activities of

Framexico Caji gao

Indicates PDL conferting w/ Cajifes, who splanning.

meeting in Managia v Forget Somora

Dispatch to diepWH Div fr: Miami WHD Rep.

17 Fes 60. Re: Summary of current

QUBIAS activities.

writter by

Patrick

Karley.

Meeting 18 Jan 60 - ADBLAE visited Nicaraguar

Emb wy sanguer-sterling in wash re:

assistance of Nicaragua for militan.

expedition against Castro

Having diffice wINT se passport Disressed

by attitude of ODENVy, who reminded

wim they could arrest him at any time

SECHET

---

## Page 31

SECRET

- Dispatch

Awthor talked to ODENY re: This matter

OD BIAS and rejecting scheme to meet

Somoza as arranged sy

Lais Arenas

Docussion N/ DOBIÁS re: Cruzada Constituciaol

Cubana (<<), @BiAS one-man crasade

Not intended to be organization

[karnly onaractixing PoL as very naive, a

base in the woods" in there matter Pubert,

husting him; but "by no means a

total loss " ]

20 PeS 600

WHD rep trian, Havana, Caracas

ter; Chief WHID signed - Oliver G. Galond

Re: Meeting of F. Castro N/ Gustavo Machado

in Caracas as reptd by PDE.

Requests inteniew of PDL by Karna

"in most minute detail"

his knowledge of contacts to rachado

and castro.

as reptd in Parade,

Lash Post 3 Fan 60

SCORET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

Dispatch 18 Faw lo

70: Chief WH DiV

• FROM: tiami WHD Rep:

Re: rept of contact w/@OBIAS 18 Jan60

Author - Parrich Karnley.

Info re: meltings beta Nunez Portuando

and PoL r: Whether or not Portrondo

[ADBAS W/out politizal commitment

to Numez Portiondo for Future

DUL discussions re: est. nor-profit 8og

to raise funds for actinities

Note: celorio, who who would be involued,

told AMBOAR about scheme, but used.

name tleburg, suggesting comsine ct

KLEBURG -LYKES - STANDARD OIL WAS

some how gettry read in to that foop?

Dispatch 12 Jan 60

To Chief WH DiV

Er Miami WH Rep - signed Karle!

Re: contact W/QDBIAS 10 Jan 60

Amory item:

- PDL consideing forming military unit to.

infiltrate asa for actio of Goit

- Dispute betN PDL, QD COVE, 9)CHAR gria

---

## Page 33

SUCHE

bad

PoL had protested I CHARS releat tripso

Guatemala w/ Segio Bruce and

Fiorini: Fiorini- questio whether he ail

be admitted back to U.S. ODENVY

ready to "throw the brok" at him

SERECT

---

## Page 34

VOL TTS

"Political Action File

(Jan 1961-

SECRET

-Memo tor Ofe hegis: Counsel: 11 NOV 71

Ir: Raymond A Warren, Chief LA. Dir

Re: Allegation by senior Cuban diplomat

conceming role of cusan exiles in the

assass. Of Preo. Kennedy:

- no further info to supplement this ino.

May have been referine to either

redeo or Maros -

Nores assoc. w/ Sturgis; article of

20 Sept. 71 re: horenz Allegations

- remo for Of 2 C

• 3 NOVT

From Chiet LA DN

Re: same as asore.

Repts - fairly reliable soure said senior

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SEGRET

Cuban diplorat stationed abroad, made

charges in Late 58077 t0 his colleagues.

that casan exiles such at former Cus. Air

Fares officer Diaz Law (funs) = Other

had bees involved in assass.

Divition belieres bast for statement presume

article at 20 Sep 77 in MY. -horenz

alejatins

DO Document extract -63 8 NOrT

Fine 63 Marcos DL imited Frank Forini

to Join raid against cuba 15 Jun using

moppy ound

Garcia, salvador Garcian

0/kx of UR.

INS form Dept ot Justice -

9/8/11

DOB 1/8/26 Alien Teg# A 10.176 -250

SS# 261-542581, Havana Cuba

SPOUSE: carnet Izaguirre, Tania. DOM 122-59

- Doc transfer -x ret.=

17 TAN 69

Former head cuban reool. AF intrested

making trip cuba to sine Russian Step.

- DoC- Afer - xref

- 26 Jan 64

Reptly working w/ Felipe Hda Santiago

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

on projected raid on Cuba which was to

onginate tron Miami area

Memo to Dir. FBI ATTN S.J. Papich : MJAN64

FR: DD P.

Re: Acusationo mady by PDL.

- Rep from thit ayency reud inf 1I Nor 63

from untested source concerning meeting

D+ FORDC in NYC on 3 NoV. 63 dusing

which DDLS made following imprompte

remarks:

- cained state Dept asked him to

wook w/ them on condition he male

no pus. statements accusing

Castro of beiry communist.

offered. post lhief hief of AFat

3 Frand Benda,

sut refiad...

Bendes ton offered mayorship

of Marianao

- Accused Kerredy of being Granumst

- Anime of being Concunt.

- Said loans had fight alone -JFK

admit would not help. faid.

It the Of for were to five one rifle.

to The exiles, the exiles would be

wise to make sure it did not fire

back then the stock instead of thr

The

bansee.

CECRET

---

## Page 37

SECRET

original disparew of above -

1o chief-spee. Afars Staff

fri COs JMNANE

has handwritten mote - For The reeard

"Bender never neet lans; who was

handled by the PH. section of the

project at That time -

10/1/64

signed

Same marte

- DOC X FiR X-Ref - 31 Ful 63

PoL involved in abortive attemph in air

strike $ baflet raid on Hasana, Cusa

squelched by ODENT.

Doc XFer # X Mt 12 June 68

6 June: 9,63 Marcos DL. invited Rorini to

join raid af. Cusa to take place weekend 18

Funey osiry hoppy owned in tedro?

raros.... Others join: Carlos Garcia

sauador Garcia Oler=, a OR officie

- Trace Regres 184pr. 63 frpDe

A "Subject is dropped w/ord prejudice:

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

5

-

Doc X fer $ X Rel

-25 har 63.

Dral owns 2 P.T. brats in tiami ara-

Re: rental by suby. of 35 tt speed

boat to anti- castro gorp.

DO X/i & X ref - 23 Feb 62

Subjeet: Movimento Recuperacion Revolucionario

de Cusa: MRRC.

Diaz kanz came to diami oftire w/2

companions, Reinaldo: Cruz y Bland -

"SIMON" - Mor of 1220

Recently acquired & boats ten Hampto?

Roads Salvage Co of Tallahassee.

Other companion not id'd.)

Calle

11 Feb 61

......

to : BEn

note

notiseas

Efom: WAVE

Re: info that Lt Col "Oscar Diaz,

Chief.

Pers of MILCOM conspired to slow up

recruiting - discredit recruiting team

round Diaz manipulating recordo s

was sabotaging behind MILCoM and.

PBPRIMERS bacK

WAVE Cornment:

Enidence turned up contirmed intrigue .

braz

SECRET

---

## Page 39

SEGRET

- Doc Xter & * ref

05 OcT 62

Re: Anti- Castro Activities.

PiL spoke at meeting held at Bayhront Park

9/29/62 - tol Cubans.

idea of recruiting.

cubans "dreamed up" by U.s. to keep tooling

the lisans. Claimed Cisans had sen

tricked because they did not understand

what was foing on.

- Trace reguest

_30 Apr. 62

After discussion beter a rep. of this Agency &

the Dept Of Arry on 28 May 62, the

Dept of Army has agreed, in ciew of

into contained in our Ageney files, to rs.

interest in Sabi.

Biography PDL.

Revol. activities begun in 52 whew he started.

runnily rifles into Cuba for Prio.. '53 exiled in

Miami until 55, and Started fennyin anot

castro...

58 appta chief ot 26 Fuh

held until defection Je 59. Leater drop.

Oct 59.

Not knon to belor inany polit paray..

Formed am morement-Cec but was unsucces

Ful in obtaining support; considered by FRI

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SEGMET

§ other moderately liberal groups as including.

some ex-Batista army otticer. Repta in April

1960

Diaz had commited cce @ self do group.

headed sy

Marguez sterling. However,

subelguently CC merged w/ Aliazza de

Liberacion - amalgamation of several geringe

groups as Cuban exiles. Although considered

somewhat of as "hothead"

", does have considerasle

stature as former Chief of AF and recently

he & some of his followers accepted into FRD...

Currenty - Lember FRO.

Endorsed by - Mr Braden, Mr Colligan of Freeport.

Salpher.

- Memo for: WH/4/Finance!

5 Fan. 62

Re: overdue Accts.

Pedro Draz Lanz - 8400 passed on 19Fan 61 as

expense money for a prop tour taken of

hens CoNtE Aguero i Others... Plan called for

use of Diaz Lanz's plane piloled by himollan

changed tound too diftcult to set necessary

permits tor plane. a

Finall, conte went

alone when IDL, balked at being contes.

shadow... reantime, Diaz Lanz dabbling in

polities, appeared sefore senate commita

and succeaded in making himself useless as a

SECRET

---

## Page 41

SECRET

con

49633

offe

Elopm

Alers.

-7950

de 1764

thel

• propaganda asset.

signed-Stannard Short,

Cable to MWAVE from Dir 6 July 61.

request JMWAVE review reguirements for use

Pedro Diaz Lanz in boat ops, Feeling here

he indiscreet.

and would compromise

missin.

DoA not initiated.

Aldo vera note - iden w/ Mir Ai80 Serain vera

former undeground leader against Batista-

Held following positions w/ casto gort

-Head of Dept of Invest: of Cuban Rer. Police

- Cusan Army 5-3 sector

- Chief at 6-S 07 Cubaw Army

- 29 Apr 60 repto as one of ofticers in

charge of caching arm in various

intervened...

nouses m Havana

- 2 Fun 60 repla replaced do Shop.

General of cusan Terren. Army,

not named to another post.

- 21 sep 60 reptal, trying to est. contact

w/ oppos. gips, but.

in reality a

govi: agent

Dispatch- To Chief: WHD IR- Chief of Badl,

IMWAVE

Re: "IT of April " Movement

Organization to be presided over ty

SEGRET

---

## Page 42

-

SECUFT

"military junta" - not one leader onhy. ay

both members of debel army and Banista

Army

Diaz have does not hold a steady posite

because he corsides himself a "leader"

rather than a "soldier"

Believe info on secret meetly of frong.

¡axed 10 Cuba gora Sin Aldo vera.

Intel: Rept 14 Ful 61 Re: Cuban counter.

revole. Base

Rept - 250 free Cuban troops $ 7 aircraft

based on Isla de Mujeres off shore of

Quitana Roo Province, Mexico. Plan

militan expedit - included:

P.DL

Felipe Vidal

Tentente ENU) Chinea

Dispatch 31 May 61 TO Chief WHD Aron

chiet of Base UMWAVE.

re.

Frenzas tereas de Liberacion (FAD)

All piloss & members of Air Force who were in

camps had a meeting duniy which AMCLATHER

5 spoke i said they

had to hold an

election to appoint chief of AF I later to

present it to AMBUD-1.

Arguments enshed. Capt Perer did

SEARFT

---

## Page 43

SECRET

not afree w/ this type election. Lett

meeting of gop of me.

rikafand tener aloo spoke Pese than

half persons left.

AMCLATTER - 5 elected as Chief

I Fist election had siven votes to Diaz

lanz, AmciATTER-s aud otes. PDL

reptely tried to take over, Caused

ranstance. Grpelt they shown have

allowed Pot pilots to lote in 18t

place =

my palled for and lecter keld

FAL member loyal to AMBOD 1

- Cable 23 May 61 to BRU from: IMTIDE.

Info- author met numerous Cubans in

riami- apparently pilot. Expressed

interest i perming author to Qia TIDE]

ea, Garcia,

і, Бто

u, Aberto.

to "stay proficient in flying" PDL

apparently creating disturbaned. "by tryiy o

take over." bood stable group of men

"The hard core mill remain tojether as the

same unit and with be and are ready it

needed."

SCHET

---

## Page 44

SAGNET

Dispatch 18 May 61 to Chief WHD from dietot

Base IMWAVE

Meeting of lubans in Bey front Dare riani

Anthor - Stanley R. Zamka

@ hay 61 Meeting in Baytont Park

PDL ed al

« Manue

Artime

Cable 1 May 61

TO BeLl from IMWAVE .

7 individuals of Braz hans go being raid

total as 81500 mo. by AMIRON

Gip not active $ some have not picked.

up April paycheeks.

Request authonty drop group. from

AMIRON Pollo affective I May 61

at discretin WAVE

- Memo for AMDIP/A.

28 April 61.

: conversation w/ Mr Forep

Newman, NY Herald Tribune

RepFd 27 April 61

Author: Howard Hurt

Discussed THATE MatEs -

SECRET

---

## Page 45

SEGRET

" sparate tact from fresoon aa oes the recent

Discussed several areas:

Ricardo Lorie - POL-

These men alleged Ua had fiven

to hories boat

demanded de but 070p

ops, but each sme GA-chose

course was followed Their brat

was interfered with by Castro

Hunt explained reasons for dA

procedures tinicases duplicate.

A compromise of effort; avoid

hostile monitoring of communicating

Coast Guard interference i provide

resoue en emergencies.

Artime

horie f Dear denounced Artime as

Castro peneratin afent. - Bolstered

by newmans recollectin that

Luan ONTA was believed to have

said castro once claimed an

afent high in counter- revol.

Oireles

Hunt explained torie cast ont in

MeR power strygle; PDL

felt personal resentment, politial

vindictiveness. Animes father was.

a communit, but yere

times more

SECRET

---

## Page 46

SEGRET-

famative year spent w/sconits.

Aureliant Sancher. Aranjo=

re: attacks of ee by sancher and

Atino Diaz.

re: story that CIA had wot.

Kept its.

agreements is/ Diaz, making it

imposs. for Biaz to land lus.

force in Cuba.

Hunt."S explained what Hall,

happened.

Eloy Gutierrez Menayo -uterer

re: allegations the renozo a fr were

detained at Methien, TX to appeare

Barista 4 Trejill partisans.

Hunt explained nove to Tx decided

On by iNs be insure sately

of outerrer; assess gips conflicing

tallo. Bre arrived too late for

inclusion in militan propan..

Revol. Council complaints

re: gen. theme hat Of had wor

lived up to its commitments to

provide air cover for landings

despite. pre-invasion Promise by Pea

Kennedy to provide this umbrell

Hunt explained IC looking for.

scapegoat. said Pres had made

*EGRET

---

## Page 47

SEGRET

no such positive commitment to Re before the

invasion...

Pres. dispatched MSSIS Beret

Schlesinger to MO in NY prior to invasin

to say Pres. had said quite the contrary.

said. pesonal interniews betw. Pres $ RC had

taken place on 19÷20 April, in fact.

As to lack lack of protective air cover, HH

cited failure of RCS B-26s to eliminate

Castro air forces dung 1S APC. Strike. HH.

"mure" as to fault for lack of second

mop-up strike.

Said bads in Guate-

mala becoming untenable - open fa

oppos: congress inspection by 18 Bpr. -

Newman - declared - realization That it

wasnt sabotage by Communist afeats -

"We sabotaged crusselves!" -

-

newman expressed interest in Hif

identity. Conceded hes had here

heard

"Eduardo!.

JECNET

---

## Page 48

SEGICT

Dispatch 25 March 61 - To Chief WH Div from

Chief of base- Havana.

re: Anti-PRD activibls of Carlos PRIO

So carras=

Brio held meeting ? Mar bl at Energlades

Hotel, liami, Fa. Made auti-PRD

statements to press

Men who had been planning action c

PDL, left him, joined Prio, since DDL

lacked resources.

os

Dispatch 3 Mar 61 to Chief of Bace, THWAVE,

pr. chief; WHD

Mancos DL: anticipating anest for anti.com.

activities, made advance preparationo to

have one of his ason contact ODIBE

ofe.

Lt. Douglas Attle Leth bridge Aguilera,

FAR ofer, of one of These reps.

Mares stated that Lethbridge trying to

get names of Russian NKVD acuts in CuSa

I when he has penetrated. com ors. inCuba

he will disclose Their plans to see me."

- Doe Xfer & CrOsS- reF- 28 Fue. 63

invowed in

poss. aircraft bomb and

leaflet raia on Habana Cusa to taki

place on 2884h, 63.

SEGNET

---

## Page 49

Memo of meeting held at home of

Zuan Carlos /Nemerto Rodigner].

2-26-61

PDL, Juan Caros, Com. Gonzales met,

decided Diaz kant start out for

Cusa. Believe PDL. good name wil

help get Amer. assisfance.

Psh expressed bittened toward

ERD and Antime

Cable - 17 TeS 61

tO BEL fr. WAVE

Neither PDL nor AMNORM -I recollect

kerowing Enrigue Molina Rivera AKA

Arturo Morales Y Rodriguez

-Cable 10 Feb 61

TO IMWAVE fr. BELL!

PDL passed $460 advance by Has during

trip ERHETAL

WAVE StoNed obtain

accounting.

cable.

3 FCb 61

10: JMWAVE

FR: BELL

AMCORE 2 SODBAT returning Aurani.

4 Tes. As result inability obtain visas

SEGRET

---

## Page 50

=

-

SEGRET

w/ permission for plane, tour to be made wore

On both via commerciae flights. Tien plans

coringent alleged AMDIP-li offer to QDBLE,

make him replacement for LITAINT- I in

[AMIRON OG. TAMCORE I reportS

tentatively opered post as prime ministe

prov. for. by AMDiPT, but would

make tour regardless

subis will call choaden for contaet

instructions WAVE Co When assistance

needed

Routing I Record Sheet -I Feb 6.1.

NOto: Re : PDL

Dias Law would cause increased

morale problems at MADD

Possibly could use uni lateally i

"No intereot to PMODS"".

Memo IFes 6I for WH/4./PH./AM

Re..: PDL.

...

Met w/ Midiael M. Mane, (W4/4/prop),

to ask it he could be pilet in FRD Air

Fore..

Author recommends PIL would aid

greatly in creatiy esprit de corps

and ciscipline

SEGRET

---

## Page 51

-

SEGNET

Dispatch 20 Fan 61.

To Chief WHD from Chief of Base TWINE

Re: Frank Forini-comments se: alleged

plans of KUBARK

On 4 Jan bl Mr. Joseph A. Tortier,

Superitiny- Customs Agent in Miami, sent

atrachment A to local chief of Kurt!

who in turn sent it to IMWAVE

Inas much as the content of Attach

A appears to implicate PDL in an

infavorable manner, CRABANAC

investfated the case f susmitted a

memo cared Itan 661, AHtach B

Chief of Base apress w/ conclusion

in Para 7 at AttaCh B.

- Attachment id rue cat tinad.

interriewed Sturgis on Dec 30, 1960 at

his residence

2080 SW 60T Court,

Miami, Fla

Han MCDonald, close assoc of

Suzis, also present. Fiorini said B2S.

scized by Customs, used for baflet top

on Havana, =

inteturned to him atter

payment of charges - $2,800.00. Monei

was turn shed by THUBAR.

DEGRET

---

## Page 52

SECRET

he had turned over the airplane for use ba

PDL. DoL was at aircraft almost every day-

preparing plan for good will tour" of

central Ames countrilo, to se sanchened

Ly KU BARK.

writer told Fiorin he was prob. being

duped- tian open talk that US supporting

group-always w/out foundation

orguestions torini said he

spoke to KUBARK afent

but The name of "Barker".

_01 1420NN

Ith st

Office contacted DDL for cooperatia.

PoL was adised Fiorini was internewed

earlier That day PDL expressed

concern that riolini might get involved

in wray that would impair plane of

anti-tho to froups.

office makin report because "/dose talk"

ay torini might have adverse effects

Fil had earlier interciewed Fiorin,

presumably re: "Timilar a /008e talk"

- Attachment B- 9 fan 61.

- Alleged 42,800 payment i presumed to be

part of money firen to PDL be saralegui

as personal loan

SECRET

---

## Page 53

SEGNET

2. PDL, preparing his aircratt for the reielo de

verdad and instructions given by him to

aireratt technicians induding Doss. use of

nat! flago an

nose of aircraps wouch

confirm Diaz

intendes to visit # of

countries:

3. Bartle says he met Fiorini on ale ne

occartion of a froup of people & has

never sein him see or since

Alleged address of

burke proride:

by Fonzi not corect.

3 :

Fiorini has lost confidence of PDL S

has been treating w/ such people as

Pasco in an altempt to involve

himselt in anti-Castro actinity.

Note PDL expressed Concer Finini

"night fet involved..

I Doc alleges he $ his people

-hounded

by federal ayents whote interest is

plans. has been piqued by plane

overhauling activities, that These

federal officials asked leading?

provocative questions.

6.

entire...

Exec. comte of ERD., as well as

---

## Page 54

SECRET

propaganda commission, hilly acquainted.

do, is repatra plans for forget and it is thos

outside.

1. However, a review of Custons repf, together

w/ above, would indicate that "the

essential element of plausible denial

still remains!:

-Cable 10 Fan 61

To

Bell from WAVE

Following: Chron. applices do prepatory actions

for.

PDL trip -

select fligkt tip party; obtain unsai

landing permits; establish flight mitig,

Lift

goz afency restrictimo on PDL and

aircraft. FRD send letter of.

instruction to FRD delegationo in host

countries outlining advance prepara

tens necessar-f special egripnt

for plane -

PDL sufgest tape

recordings be made at local stops for

mailing back and use on swan

Expect concrete tan dunzy we of

9 Jan..

PoL will handcary

passpors. and fliglito documentsto

washington, obtain visas i landing

-permits & susmit resets to

---

## Page 55

SEGNAT

Choaden Who to finalize floglet roube.

Have toed QDBAJ aim a 15 faw takeoff.

to realize This prob. Ophimathic:

SCORET

---

