# 180-10110-10064

## Page 1

180-10110-10064

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT A iOn SySE ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 19922

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10110-10064

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 046-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ROCK

FROM: OLSEN, ROBERT B.

10: WILDEROTTER, JAMES A

TITLE:

DATE: 04/02/1975

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS:

PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS

HUNT, E. HOWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

With attached copies of photographs and a affidavit from Mary Traynor (Hunt's maid).Box 3.

19.1

NW 50955

DooId: 32263469

Page

---

## Page 2

1 COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Connor

C. Douglas Dillon

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkland

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

April 2, 1975

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

[Phone: 456-2767]

Mr. James A. Wilderotter

Associate Deputy Attorney General

Department of Justice

10th & Constitution Avenue

Washington, D. C.. 20530

Dear Mr. Wilderotter:

As you know, we have been checking on certain allegations that

the CIA was a conspirator in the assassination of President

Kennedy.

We have talked to Agent Shaneyfelt of the FBI and

have received a summary Bureau report on its investigation to

date into such allegations. We now request certain additional

assistance from the Bureau as follows:

1. We enclose an additional 21 photographs of E. Howard Hunt,

reportedly taken during the period 1957-1966. In addition,

we expect to be able to send to you very shortly additional

photographs of Frank Sturgis, taken in the early 1960's.

We would like to have a thorough examination made to com-

pare these photos of Hunt and Sturgis with the photos which

the Bureau already has on file and which were taken in

Dallas on November 22, 1963, as certain "derelicts" were

being accompanied to the Dallas Police Department.

2.

We have learned that E. Howard Hunt is approximately 5 feet

9 inches tall, and that Frank Sturgis is approximately

5 feet 11 inches tall.

We would like to have on-site

measurements and photographs taken at one or more of the

scenes in Dallas shown on the November 22, 1963, photos to

determine if the persons shown in those pintosturg persons

of heights similar or dissimilar to Hunt

50955 DooId: 32263469

Page 2

---

## Page 3

- 2

3. When the foregoing has been completed, we will want to

take a statement from Agent Shaneyfelt and such other

Bureau personnel as may be involved in the making of

these investigations.

The enclosed photographs are the personal property of E. Howard.

Hunt.

Copies should be made and the photos returned to us for

eventual return to Mr. Hunt. The same will hold true for the

forthcoming photos of Mr. Sturgis.

Because our time is running very short, we ask that this request

be expedited with the greatest possible speed. Thank you.

Very truly yours,

Robert B. Olsen

Senior Counsel

Enclosures:

21 Photos (with notes

on back)

NH 50955

DooId: 32263469 Page

3

---

## Page 4

65

montenden

Mire 660

€59

NW 50955

DooId: 32263469

Page 4

---

## Page 5

nON

1777

50955

DooId: 32263469

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NW 50955

DocId: 32263469

Page 6

---

## Page 7

AW 50955

DooId: 32263469

Page 7

---

## Page 8

50953

Doold:32263469

Page 8

---

## Page 9

'6¢

1777

50955

DocId: 32263469

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Pape a State

1963

'66o6>

Land

'57

NW 50955

DooId: 32263469

Page

10

---

## Page 11

JA#

61

1960

1957

HW 50955

DocId:32263469

Page 11

---

## Page 12

HT 50955

DocId: 32263469

Page 12

---

## Page 13

AFFIDAVIT OF

MARY TRAYNER

I, Mary Trayner, being duly sworn, say:

1.

I reside at 4806 DeRussey Partway, Chevy Chase,

Maryland 20015, where I am a housekeeper.

2.

On iovember 22, 1963, I was employed as a

housekeeper by Mr. and Mrs. E. Howard Hunt, who then lived

on Baltan Road in Sunner, Maryland with their four chilâren.

On that date Mrs. Hunt's now deceased Aunt

Leonie (whose last name I cannot

recall) was visiting the

Munts as a house guest for a few days.

She lived in Chicago.

It may have been because of the aunt's visit or a "Teachers'

Day" holiday that the children were all home from school in

the early afternoon of that Friday.

4.

Mr. Hunt was hone as well.

He was writing a book

and spent a good deal of time in the house.. Mrs. Hunt was

home, too, and planned - with her aunt - to treat the three

older

chilaren to a movie matinee.

5.

Mrs. Hunt worked part-time at the Spanish Embassy

where

one of her close associates was Veronica Moppet, who

has since married and departed the imbassy:

At about 2:15 P.M. as the two women and three

children

vere preparing to go downtovn to the matinee,

Veronica Moppet telephoned Mrs. lunt to report that

President Kennedy had been shot.. I remenver that all of

us, including

hir. and Iirs. Hunt, stood and stared at each

other.

I ran next door to ask the neighbors what had

happened. A neighbor suggested I turn on the radio.

Then

I want back in the liunt's house, Mr. aunt was turning on

the TV set.

7.

The first thing we heard on the TV was a newsman

saying that it was now 45 minutes since the shot had been

fired

and they still did not know how badly the President

had been injured.

HH 50955 DooId:32263469 Page 13

---

## Page 14

-2-

Ms DREXCER M.T.

8.

Mr. and Mrs. Hunt, Aunt Leonie, the three older

aunt children and

I spent the rest of the day and that

evening in the house watching TV reports. I remember, for

instance, viewing

I the return to Washington of Mrs. Jackie

Kennedy.

9. The preceding statements given by me are given

freely and voluntarily without any pressure or influence

being placed upon me by any nember of the staff of the

Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States or

any other person.

Executed this day of b42/1975

Mines Truthe

Máry Trayner

State of

County

of

He Con

to wit:

Swoin and subscribed to b

1975

fore me

day Of

Notary

Public

31-1976

NW 50955

DocId: 32263469 Page

14

---

## Page 15

006565

00 093

Va Los SuG

10. I have no diaries, or other memorabilia prior to 1969,

having desiroyed as many outdated Alrealand records as possibie

to save weight in the move to my Florida home in July, 1974.

I retained only such records, bank statements, etc. as are

required by the 5-year Internal Revenue Service for income tax

purposes.

State of Florida)

County of Dade )

E. Howard Hunt

Sworn and

subscribed before me this 10th day of March of 1975.---

teen d.

Notary

Notary Public State of Florida at Large

My Commission Expires June 16, 1978.

My Commission expires:

:t111?

50955

DocId: 32263469

Page 10

---

## Page 16

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

March 10, 1975

SECRET/SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FILE

FROM:

Robert B. Olsen

SUBJECT:

Telephone Interview with E. Howard Hunt

on March 7, 1975

I called Mr. Hunt at his residence in Miami, Florida, after first

clearing the matter with his

attorney, Mr. Snyder, of Baltimore.

I asked Mr. Hunt about the apparent inconsistency between his des-

cription to us of the circumstances under which he heard about the

assassination of President Kennedy on November 22, 1963, and the

letter from a former family maid, Mary Traynor.

called his attention to the fact that Mrs. Traynor, in her letter,

advises that Mr. and Mrs. Hunt were at home when word of the assas-

ination came in

a telephone call

from Veronica Moppett. This

is inconsistent with Mr. Hunt's statement that he and Mrs. Hunt

heard about the assassination on the car radio while they were in

downtown Washington, D. C.

Mr. Hunt stated that Mary Traynor

seems to be in error.

He says that it is entirely possible that

there was such a call from Veronica Moppett, although he does not

remember it. He says that a lot of people were calling each other

with the news about the shooting of the President. He says it is

ho a she sho ing of

also possible that this was the manner in which Mary Traynor heard

about the shooting and that she is simply in error in her recollec-

tion that the Hunts

were then at home.

Hunt stated that he thinks that the Sidwell Friends School dismissed

classes for the day at 3:15 pm or 3:30 pm.

He says it is possible

that the school was dismissed earlier on the day of the assassination

but he does not know for sure. He acknowledges that he and Mrs. Hunt

would not have known about an

earlier dismissal of classes in time to

pick up Kevan unless Mrs. Hunt had called the school while they were

enroute from downtown Washington, D. C.

He does not recall making

such a call himself, and he does

not recall his wife making one. If

classes let out at the normal time, he and Mrs. Hunt would have arrived

at home, with their daughter Kevan, at about 3:30 ox 3:45 pm.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 17

SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 2 -

He states that, as he recalls it, there was some delay between the

time of the death of the President and the time it was made public

on radio and television. He does not recall whether the death of

the President had been announced by the time he and Mrs. Hunt arrived

at home and he turned on the television set. The President was PrO-

nounced dead at 2:00 pm, Eastern Standard Time.:

The exact time when

the death was announced on radio or television has not been checked

out.]

He recalls that when he was watching T.V. with his family after arriving

at home, either Huntley or Brinkley made some statement to the effect

that the assassination was an outgrowth of the hatred of far Right groups

which was much in evidence in Dallas, as had been shown by a recent inci

dent involving some one spitting into the face of Adlai Stevenson.: The

implication made by Huntley or Brinkley was that the assassination had

been accomplished by some one from the far Right Wing. This was before

anything was known

about the actual assassin.. Hunt remembers commenting

to his family that it was just like Huntley or Brinkley to jump to the

conclusion that the shooting had been by a Right Winger before any evi-

dence was available concerning the assassin.

Mr. Hunt will give us

a detailed affidavit covering his non-involvement

in the various assassinations. He states that he hopes to be able to

avoid another trip back to Washington because he wants to spend as much

time as possible with his eleven-year old daughter, who is very anxious

about her father's impending imprisonment.

Mr. Hunt states that he hopes to be assigned to a minimum security federal

prison in Florida when he reports on March 25.

With respect to the late-night television program on the evening of March 6,

1975, on ABC TV, Hunt states that he recorded the program on tape.

an interview of Dick Gregory, Ralph Schoenman, and

one of their companions.

None of the above mentioned Hunt's name or that of Sturgis on the program.

He describes the interviewer pressing Dick Gregory on whether he claims

that the CIA was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy and

Gregory responding that they were not stating that as a fact, but only

that if there was any chance of CIA involvement, then the President's Com-

mission should investigate it. Gregory and his companions showed the

Zapruder film and the major thrust of the program was an emphasis on the

snapping back of the President's head at the time of the fatal shot.

One

of the interviewees (I believe he said it was Schoenman) stated that they

did not really expect much from Olsen at the CIA Conmission, but that they

were going to "keep embarrassing him with the facts."

Mr. Hunt feels that the press should give some publicity to Schoenman's

background with the Bertrand Russell Foundation.

RBO/vmr

CC: D. Belin

Senior Counsels

SECRET/SENSITIVE

HW 50955 DocId:32263469 Page 17

---

## Page 18

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Conhor

C. Douglas Dillon

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkland

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

March 6, 1975

File

Robert Olsen

Interview of March 4, 1975, with E. Howard Hunt

and his Daughter, Lisa Hunt

The interview commenced at approximately 4:00 PM and was conducted

at 712 Jackson Place.

Mr. Hunt is presently residing at 1245 N. E.

82th Street, Miami, Florida

33138. He has a silent telephone number of 305 758-6159.

Lisa Hunt resides at 3406 Nimitz Road, Apt. A-2, Kensington, Maryland

20795. She has an unlisted telephone number which she declined to

give us. She was born on March 9, 1951.

The

interview concerned allegations that Mr. Hunt was involved in the

assassination of President John Kennedy and other public figures. He

is avare of the public statements made by Dick Gregory and Ralph

Schoenman in early February 1975 relative to his being involved in the

assassination of President Kennedy. He states that most of the infor-

mation that Mr. Gregory and Mr. Schoenman referred to is drawn from

a book by Tad Szulc entitled, E. Howard Hunt, the Compulsive Spy.

Hunt states that the book is saturated with errors.

One of those errors

is the claim that Hunt was Chief of Station in Mexico City in the fall of

1963.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

action against me and my family.

NH 50955

DoC1d: 32263469 Page 18

---

## Page 19

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

The Bay of Pigs Background

Hunt states that in 1960 he was assigned to the job of organizing a

"government in exile" for Cuba among Cuban exiles in Florida.

The

plan adopted by the National Security Council under President Eisenhower

called for the formation and training of a brigade of Cuban exiles who

would invade Cuba, establish a provisional government, receive recog-

nition by the United States and overthrow the Castro government. The

brigade had its own air force and was otherwise fully equipped by the.

United States Government. The operation, however, was not supposed

to be one involving United States Government participation. The venture

was to involve training and launching from outside the United States.

In connection with his political activity and the organization of the

government in exile, Hunt went to Mexico in 1960. Shortly thereafter

the Mexican government demanded that they leave and he returned to

the United States. Richard Nixon, then Vice President, was working

closely with the CIA on the project.

When President Kennedy was elected in November 1960, he was briefed

on the project and confirmed the plans, including the plan to provide air

cover to the invading Cuban force.

In early 1961, however, the Kennedy

administration decided that the political organization of the Cuban

government in exile would have to be broadened so as to include all

elements of the Cuban society. Even radical leftwingers were to be

included. Hunt was assigned the job of convincing the leaders of the

Cuban community to accept such a broadening of the political structure

of the government in exile. Hunt found this to be an impossible job to

accomplish because the Cubans recruited to make up the invasion force

had been promised that the government in exile would be solidly anti-

Castro and anti-communist. Hunt asked to be relieved of his assignment

because he thought it was an impossible one to achieve and he returned

to Washington to work on propaganda and similar non-political aspects

of the forthcoming invasion.

Within twenty-four hours prior to the time that the Cuban brigade was

to hit the beaches at the Bay of Pigs, President Kennedy made two

critical decisions that affected the final outcome: he cancelled plans

SECRET/SENSITIVE

action

against me and my family.

AW 50955 DocId: 32263469 Page 19

FED

---

## Page 20

3

SECRET/SENSITIVE

for an airstrike on Cuba which would have destroyed the

six remaining

combat planes that were available to Castro; second, the order that

there be no air cover for the invading brigade. The result was that

the invading force was chopped up while it was still in the water; the

ships carrying the armored vehicles were sunk, as were the supply

ships, and the troops were left abandoned on the shore. The remnant

of the Cuban Air Force was entirely adequate to demolish the invasion

fleet.

Hunt concedes that he was bitter about the decisions made by President

Kennedy, but he primarily blames Arthur Schlesinger, Adlai Stevenson

and Robert Kennedy for advising the President to follow the course he

chose. He particularly feels that the Cubans had been recruited with

certain promises and that those promises were withdrawn at the last

minute.

Hunt says, in fact, that the decision not to make the airstrike

and not to provide air cover was made after the invasion fleet had arrived

at the point of no return, i. e., when radio communication to the invasion

fleet had already terminated for security reasons.

After the Bay of Pigs disaster, Hunt worked with Allen Dulles until early

1962 at which time Dulles was replaced as DCI. In January 1962, Hunt

was assigned to the Domestic Operations Division of the Deputy Directorate

for Plans.

He was involved in handling proprietaries based in the United

States, which have their impact abroad. His immediate superior was

Stanley Gaines, who was either Chief of Operations or Executive Officer

of the Domestic Operations Division and Tracy Barnes, who was Division

Chief of DOD (Barnes is a cousin by marriage to Vice President

Rockefeller.)

The proprietaries which Hunt was engaged in managing were Continental

Press, which prepared news and radio broadcasts for foreign use;

Allied-Pacific Publishing Company of Bombay, which was engaged in

publishing textbooks for Indian schools; the Rome Daily American, a

cover operation; and Fodor's Travel Guides, a proprietary which Hunt.

questions as to whether it had any use. (Fodor's had been set up in

1946 as a cover operation but served no apparent use during the years

Hunt was with DOD.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

NW

actIon against me and ny family.

50955 DocId: 32263469 Page

20

FEB 5

1975

---

## Page 21

SECRET/SENSITIVE

The headquarters

for the DOD was at 1717 H Street, N. W., in

Washington, D. C., and then later it was on Pennsylvania Avenue.

Hunt's assignment with DOD lasted until the spring of 1965.

During the period from January 1962 until 1965, he states that he never

traveled to Mexico or any other Latin American country. His first

trip to Mexico after 1961 was in 1970, when he traveled there for the

Mullen Company after his retirement from the CLA.

Hunt's Whereabouts on November 22, 1963

Hunt states that he had never been in Dallas until 1971, with a possible

exception of a change of planes on his way to Mexico with his family in

1960. He does not recall whether that change of planes took place in

Dallas or in Houston. In any event, he and his family never left the

airport on that occasion.

He has never had any contact, directly or indirectly, with Lee Harvey

Oswald, Jack Ruby or anyone else thought to have been associated with

the assassination of the President.

He was never in New Orleans in 1963 and has never had anything whatever

to do with the Fair Play for Cuba Gommittee, which he identifies as a

communist organization.

During the period from January 1962 to 1965, he traveled once or twice

per year to India, two or three times per year to Paris, once or twice

per year to London, and, during that period, he traveled two or three.

times to Rome. His only domestic travel in 1963 was between Washington

and New York. All travel, whether domestic or international, was in his

own name.

Hunt states that in 1961 he used the pseudonym of Edward J. Hamilton in

connection with his work on the Cuban project in Florida. With the

exception of that pseudonym and the pseudonym he used on the identifi-

cation papers provided him for the Ellsberg break in, he has never used

a pseudonym.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

HH 50955

action against me and my family.

DocId: 32263469 Page 21

FEB 5

1975

---

## Page 22

5

SECRET/SENSITIVE

On November 22, 1963, he and his wife were driving on H Street at about

tha thy Prington h2. Gen then.

9th in Washington, D. C., when he turned the car radio on and learned

He and Mrs. Hunt had been shopping

in a Chinese grocery store in that immediate vicinity, immediately prior

to their getting into the car. The Hunts lived at 5215 Balton Road,

Sumner, Maryland. On their way home they drove to the Sidwell Friends

school on upper Wisconsin Avenue and picked up their younger daughter;

Kevan. Kevan told them that Robert and Courtenay Kennedy, children of

Attorney General Robert Kennedy, were students in the same school and

had been picked up by the Secret Service.. The children in the school

knew that the President had been shot.

Mr. Hunt states that the following persons are witnesses to the fact that

he was here in Washington, D. C., at the time the President was shot

in Dallas:

1. His son, Howard St. John Hunt, then ten years of age.

2. His daughter, Lisa, then twelve years of age.

3. His daughter, Kevan, then eleven years of age.

4. The family maid, Mary Trayner, now employed by a family

living at 4806 DeRussey Parkway, Chevy Chase, Maryland,

and whose phone number is 652-2930.

Mr. Hunt believes that he was either taking the day off from work as

a part of annual leave on November 22, 1963, or he may have been

recuperating from a hospitalization for ulcers. He had been hospitalized

at about that period at Sibley Hospital in Washington, D. C.

Mr. Hunt states that he held the following oil company charge account

and credit cards in 1963 and that such accounts may provide corroboration

as to his presence in Washington, D. C., on November 22, 1963:

Esso Oil, Gulf Oil, Texaco Oil, Cities Service Oil, Brooks Brothers

(New York), Garfinkle's, Woodward and Lothrop, Sears Roebuck & Co.,

Hecht Co. He also states that telephone records might be checked with

SECRET/SENSITIVE

• 0101

# 50955 DOcId: 3226346

against me and my family.

Page 22

FEB 5

1072:

---

## Page 23

6

SECRET/SENSITIVE

Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone. Co.; that the CIA might have travel

voucher records showing his travel during that year and that CIA should

also have records on the dates on which he took sick leave or annual

leave.

Mr. Hunt categorically denies that he has been involved in any way what-

soever with the assassination of President Kennedy, Senator Robert

Kennedy, Martin Luther King, or any other person either within or without

the United States. He similarly denies any participation or involvement

whatever in the attempted assassination of Governor Wallace, the

disappearance of Congressman Hale Boggs or the shooting of Senator

Stennis.

He states that in connection with the planning for the Cuban invasion in

1961, he did suggest that Fidel Castro should be assassinated either before

or contemporaneously with that invasion, but his suggestion was not acted

upon or otherwise approved.

Attached are copies of a press statement made by Mr. Hunt in early

February 1975 in Florida, in which he denies the allegations made by

Dick Gregory and others with respect to his involvement in the assassi-

nation of President Kennedy and a letter written to Mr. Hunt by the former

family maid, Mary Traynor.

Lisa Hunt confirms her father's account that he was at home with the

family in the afternoon and evening of November 22, 1963. She recalls

that her father assembled the family in front of the television set.

• He

wanted them all to watch the program because it was an important

historical matter. They were all shocked about the assassination of

the President.

cc: D. Belin

Senior Counsels

SECRET/SENSITIVE

HW 50955

action against me and my family.

DocId: 32263469 Page 23

FEB 5

1975

---

## Page 24

AFFADAVIT

I, E. HOWARD HUNT, affirm the following to be my recollec-

tions of my whereabouts on November 22, 1963:

1. On that date I was an employee of the Central Intelligence

Agency assigned to the Domestic Operations Division, located in

a commercial building in Washington, D. C.

2. I was driving with my late wife on H Street near 8th or 9th

Street when we first heard of the Kennedy shooting on our car

radio.

We had been purchasing Chinese groceries at a store named,

as.well as I can recall it, "Wah Ling". I do not know how long

after the initial

radio reports were made that my wife and I first

heard the news. Brinkley was the commentator I remember because

of his having theorized

a "right wing plot": i.e., Dallas citizens

had abused Adlai Stevenson and the climate of Dallas extremism had

caused Kennedy's shooting.

3. Fxom the Chinese grocery store we drove out Wisconsin Avenue

to pick up our daughter, Kevan, from Sidwell Friends School.. On

joining us my daughter told us what we already knew: that President

Kennedy had been shot. She had learned this because two of Robert

Kennedy's children had been taken from Sidwell Friends School, pre-

sumably by secret Service agents.

4. From Kevan's school we drove directly to our home on Baltan

Road in Sumner, Maryland (off Massachusetts Avenue extended) . At

home was my newly-born son, David (DOB 9/1/63), a maid, Mary Traynor,

MN 30955 Doold: 32263469 Page 24

---

## Page 25

and my wife's aunt, the late Leona Drexler of Chicago. Our elder

son, St. John, a student at nearby Brookmont Elementary School,

was probably already at home. As I recall, our eldest child, Lisa.

arrived soon afterward by bus from Ursuline Academy and joined us

at the television set in our basement recreation room where we

stayed long hours watching the unfolding of events: the swearing-in

of LBJ, the arrival at Andrews Field of the Presidential coffin,

etc.

5. As to why I was not at my office that entire afternoon, I can

only presume that I had left early to help my wife shop for a

planned Chinese dinner, in the preparation of which I normally

assisted.

6.

I was never in Dallas, Texas, until late 1971 when, at the

request of Charles Colson I flew there to interview Gen. Paul

Harkins, former U.S. military commander in Vietnam.

7. I did not meet Frank Sturgis until the spring of 1972, the.

introduction being performed by and at the office of Bernard I.

Barker.

8.

I never at any time met or knew Lee Harvey Oswald, Jack Ruby,

or any other person involved in the Dallas slayings.

9.

I was not in Mexico in 1963. In fact, I was not in Mexico

between, the years 1961 and 1970, and have not been there since

a weekend pleasure trip to Acapulco in July of 1970.

NH 50955 DocId: 32263469 Page 25

---

## Page 26

The allogations made by Dick tregory and others connecting

me to the murder of President John Kennedy are totally without foundati

They constitute a false and vicious libel.

These charges are bizarre

• products of sick minds.

The Political Left has never been able or willing to accept the fact

that Konnody's assass In was a man of the left; thus the loftist

preoccupation with finding an alternate assassin.

Dick Gregory's smear represents the ultimate in slander and

innuendo customarily characterized as McCarthyism.

Tho Rockefeller and other Investigative committees will

probably examine Gregory's charges - as indeed they should. For my

part I would welcome a thorough high-level investigation and a full

airing of all relevant findings. Only if this takes place will I have

any hope of clearing my name and living free from the threats against

my life already made by neurotics.

I was not in Dallas, Texas, on November 22,1963; In fact I

nover visited Dallas until eight years later. I did not meet Frank

Sturgis until 1972, nine years after we were allegedly together in

Dallas. I was not In Moxico in 1963, and I did not meet Lee Harvey

Oswald there or at any other place or time. Moreover, I shared

the

nation's grief over the murder of our President. These are the facts.

Untll authoritative Investigative bodies make known their

judgment concerning my alleged involvement in the Kennedy murder I

will continue to bring libel actions against any and all parties

who repeat the libel. I must take this course because the libels are

prejudicial to my position before the Court now considering my

Appeal from the Watergate affair. And because the libels threaten my

only means of livelihood, as a writer. But of even greater concern to

mo is that

continued publicity given to these reckless

charges could stimulato some yet-unpublicizod maniac into violent

action against me and my family.

NW

50955 DooId: 32263469 Page 26

FEB 5 1975

---

## Page 27

ADVICE AND WAIVER

Date

Time

3/4/75

Before you make any statement to,

or answer any

questions fxom, the

_Commission or its investigators, you-

should understand that you have the right to remain silent.

If you choose to answer, anything you say can be used

against you in court.

You may consult a lawyer for advice before any questions

are put, and may have a lawyer with you during questioning.

If you cannot afford a lawyer, one will be appointed for you:

before questioning if you wish.

If you decide to answer

questions without a lawyer present, you still have the

right to stop answering at any time; or you may defer your

answer until you talk to a lawyer.

WAIVER

I have read and understand the foregoing advice. I

am willing to make a statement and answer questions frichl

[without] a lawyer at this time. No promises or threats

have been made to me, and no pressure or coercion of any

kind has been used against me.

Signed

4..

Witness:

Witness:

Time:

50955 DocId: 32263469 Page 27

FEB 5

1975

---

## Page 28

4805 De Russey Prisy

Chery Chaps nd 2001

7ch 6 1475

Deci Miltunt

Tom so glad you thaught

I writing to me, I remember the day Pedest

Kennedy was shat very well, and I certainly

rememhe you were there.

If you recall, to Hurl's Aunt

Force, (9 am sorry I cult rementer lei last none)

win there was staying with see for a feet.

laws, and on the triding tus itunt her stunt

the three childhen were qing down teres

to a movie pratinée, behen Veronica Hophet

illed from the sperash envesty to tell Nastent

but the president had been shot. trement

walls tad aried an i taied at each other

Her you but the teterisin on, and the

linst thing the heard was the News were sayees

"tat it was now 45 pinutes since the shat

Ind been fired, and that they still die

hat know her badly he hand bees infuses

NH 50955 DocId: 32263469 Page 28

FEB 5

197:

---

## Page 29

The that the Harts Aunt is

nose dead, hut it is possible that

when the went back to thicago the

may heve mentioned that you were

there when te mens ame things, l

en drug or a gene Pee at

She just may.?

Leable to corrobiate.

rore details:

come to relinda dato

Of day that stamp in your ment

Slape you a still getter

along well. Did your smerage to sell

the Kaise on Rine Pie?.

Let the how if ttere

'If you stold rein on?

Miltella renewher me to har

Please quie my requires to

the children,

P.S. Me Pline

165?

lucerdly

I com cl

-2.939

F6250

NW 50955 DodId: 32263469 Page 29

FEB 5

1975

---

