# 180-10141-10267

## Page 1

180-10141-10267

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatin System

Identification Form

Agency Inforn ation

Date:

2/5/2016

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10141-10267

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTIC N

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

13-22-06

Document Infirmation®

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: CIA

TO:

• TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1978

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

HUNT, E. HOWARD

CIA, FILES

NOTES

Unclassified

IA; 1B

Redact

08/02/1995

Box 6

v9.1

NW 47055 . DocId: 32271071 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Leslie Wizelmian

3GC. File

E. H. Hunt - Summary

3/10/78

The MGC file covers the percod fram July 1, 1965.. to

June 19, 1922

the file contoss the following di cuments and intarmation:

@A conrast between me agency and shHund, eltective

July 4, 1965.

319580

.: 4943.

a controct empajee"

so per do sum

а укаї

::.

a A menu fur 06C trum Chiet of Contact personnel Division,

dated August 3, 1905, subject: fireation of royalter aya

Cantract smployee.states

mat Hunt

COVER.

apparently duelo...

a

i Rouet aaron regardeng retention of sa

royaltie: He's rady caro.

O memo fur Chet af con ract Personnel Dussion from

Office of General Caunsel:

dated Aug 12, 1965 ce retention

at rayaltier.

"We belleue that Hunt in entitled to retain such

royalher without an offset against his Agency salacy." "Wehave

been adused by me rupinee

COMER

¿does nat saclude

cole af a writer; Hurtis

4s.sl001ybe

a memo. Fram Chiet, Cauert 'laums Branch to Chief Contract

Personnel Duvsun, dated Seat 3,1965_Uitie recommended deletionat

aftset paragraph in Hunt's contras- Acknowledges the ObLopinies

which determined Hunt may retain a ithout Ageacy salary aftset

any tuture cayalties earned as a resu tat his literary elforts basedon

the fact cover does not clude ro eat a waiter.

SECRET

/ NH: 47055

Docid:32271071

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECREF

z-Hint 515551959

- mema tram conseact implances Accounts section to

Shret, westors Europe Dussion, dater Out 13, 1965, Resorts that

thare. Is no recaca of

recapt: of duty status Reports fuc

Hunt since his S0D y Tuby 1965. Reports are required in order

to maintain bis leave account in accordance with the terms

af his contract, memo on sanen at page to compensation

and Jax divisio trem chief ai support, we Divisions "Per

conversation with Tramas Baramesures, ADDe, there wall be ne

Quty status Reperts

anamitted on Hunt, This should be

ised as the

•authority

a contine: his pay without

tbee reports.

0-::

@memo for Dep. directar fursuppoct to Acting Chief,

western Europe Divisica dated Nou 8, 1965

Hunt has

requested relet on howing costs. "' -Que to the operational.

sensutty af tunts assigament in loquest fur relief on his

housung costs was handled. by mathomas Karamessine,an

15 sept 1965, me Karamessiner, approued hi beirs remours cu

00 a 75/25 90 b0113

far:

the excessi allowable costs upta;

but not to exceed, to 20 above his juarters allowance.

@ memo, dated. Fab 1, 1974 ce

= recollecticini

tak regarding his knowledgs of the waitings of mr tuat andany

official who might be aware of the arcumstances at any agency

nualuement in that effort. a"l'he becane aware that Hunt,

while in wt, was accomplishing a steady flow at say books, and

that security approval was not teing-requested on the

_manuscrists betore submissión to publishers.

advised that angreat he raised the issue "up front"

on several

SECRIT

I NH

47055 Docid:32271071

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

- 3-

accasions. The reactus he received to his raising the issue

was that "keep your stinking nove out at this buroess.".

He stated that be was lead to believe that mr neims desred

to improve the image of the intelligence protessicin and the

Agency and that Hunts books were a acirt of the program

ta do so; te stated that he wes never told outright that this

was the case but the responses he received lead him

#27

to believe this as the case."

He suggested two peaple una night clear the issue-

Ray lora and -watter pfarzheimer: "both af whom were involved

in the "mage" materials. "Hestated that pfarzheimer seemed to be.

aware of allthe detais -on on up to date-basis - of trunts departure

from the agency to jain the pullic relation fim, tathe degree

that g

goned the belief that Hunt was merely

mowing his dest outside the brulding but being paid by the

source, on hefure.

Also

* Feb 6, 1924- memo -

da Fib 4, 1974-Pfarzhermer war

interviewedi". Tois interview wai uncestaken

inanesfert to

determine if mr tuat had acted irany capacity in cooperator

with counter Intelligence operation. When efucheiner discovered

Hist had water on Hazardow Du'y; he called karamessines

mal recalled that from the natuer of mi kacamessines!

reacton that be had uncauered a sensitiue mattecat senior

officer concern: Within 5 minutes, Helms called pfurzhemer

who_remembers_thesubstance.ofthe conversation being "fur christ

saxe walter, thu is the first bodl-to comealang and say

SECRIT

NH 47055

DoCId: 32271071 Page

---

## Page 5

SECRET

7-4-

something good about the Agency." "Why not leave the Goddam

thung alone," me l believed thai Helms or karamessines

answer the queston at nether Hunt had Agency-

spassorship foe his books.

83 : Ine memo states that itunt

was assigaed to the

- office of the Deputy Director for Operator.

in Fab 94s, The ticst

back us published duang irat.

June i96s - through Seat

19606..

Hunt was assigned to.

Madrid as a cantract agent. 19l6- 3 books appeared.

3967-1 book

119606

1909, 19-1, a 1922-1 book/ye

Adel 30, 1970- Hunt oitically eted as an Agency stutt

emplayee

"The ottice of senicity records did net develop any

indicatien

that angief the

Daud st. Juhn manuscrpts

were ever submitled for revew in accordance with Agency

regulatzans.

4 ..

9- memo tur record - Feb 6, 1971 "Subj:: Passible Agency

Sponsorshipiot the Daud st Johr -

Novels A conference

was.held:with.peaple.tom the 6 offre: " the speculation

was entertained that Mr. Floward Huat had, in fact, been under

Ageacy sponsorship with the knowledge of mr Richard Helms

in his preparatica at a series at ipy novels under the

pseudoym, David titaba: It cal be accepted as a reasonable

suppositica that mr Husk had seme highty compartmented

financial arrangemont: authorized by seauc Agency officials

to white there books, then it is likely that this relationship

contnued after mattint officially retired." "Minutes from the

oftue_oflegislatue.Ccunsel_madereferences.tu.@.cunceen.of

Senator Baker over an alleged: inancial relatinship between

SECFET

- NV 17055

'DocId:32271071 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

5-

ma Helms and mrhunt which continued subsequent to meltunt'!

formal retrement.

."." Baker made reference to a payment

at some 30,000 with the parenthetical comment that

me Helms would nut have that anoust of muney from his

pavate hindes en smeloyee at to staff i

apinioned that "if."

the agency bad spunered the stitohn basksit was likely

that.

note

Stunt nad so informed Serator Baker.".

O Interven with Bayund Borca- Feb 14, 1974. - Asked, about

finanang of Hunt." me Raccao pespurcad.

"on the record" that he"

has na knowledge of any such arrangerents no atany time wai

he party to aay asustance en or any requests for assistance

to mr Hunt " Ventured opinion that' in all probability an official

acquiescence on the pact at senior a ficials might have been

mudued rather than: an afficial sponsershin.

@ interven wits chet, Contract Persunnel Deviseud.

15 Feb 19741- stated that " alth ugh it was not emmon.

practice it was net entirely unusüal for bighly sensitive

coatrasts to be adminutered isnout the contracterig

officer being aware af the oprational objectue muolved."

@ interwes with former che:of Suppert, westerra Europedo

DIveseuR-1985 Date: 15 Fes 1974. Asked re Hunt actuities in 1965)

_378

a froca his recollecter it was Hunt's habit to deal onlywith

_the most seniar. officer availabla."

_Hewanewer.briefed.on the

purpose a matunts oosuas..

SECRET

43055

DocId: 32271071

Page. 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

= 6-

memo sue record dated it FeD 1974, le osficeot

Financa Reco

cas- E. H

ward triot.=

Hunt-departed Decion 5 oug 1915 and arqued madna en

36 Aug 1965.

Hunt was

pard through

Anoperatunal acct.was.establshed.fic.nor.thur

shere.

was arrecordof anyaper atrenal

accouatso aduances being processed tbrough thi chandel, mr.

vale stated that this fact dehned his concern. He fest thatt

was inconceable. that mastunt could baue undertaken

operational actauty usthout sum transfer of ocaccounting

for funds - To date, naruch recordi have been developed.

No reference to a project as project digraps or aperational

FAN number bas been located " AlLexpenses connected with

me tuat dentined to date were charged to the madrid

Statua suppurt. A raulew made of madrid Statin records nanot

indicated any "developmental and turget of uppu tunts COSTO"

funce.

or"ather opecational Actity (007)" fund expended

by ac aa behalf ot mr dunt. these twe accounts would

normally be the source of operational funding not charged

against a spectic project activiti, '" A resen af travel vouchers

also failed to dentity a project. There was a voucher tur

atrip topc à saturn to maded Jons-8,1906- The voucher

states in tbe space proudechi. fur the atatun of the trauet order

number-"no travel order treacer inting: as appraved and

signed oy karamesses-@ no justiFication cr statemen" of purpose

mr. Tale noted that the cayaity olfsct walver proussian amended

_to runts contract was, un his experience, somewhat unusual.

SECPET

•NH 47055

DooId:32271071

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

The attice of finance purector s ated that from his experience,

mr karonessines would, have delegatec. all the arranging of udetails"

surcaunding an assignment such as nic tuate to sachsayee

He atened: his sucocue

to intervena muse it what he inerreted to ba reticence to date

I meme fee necoca

al feb ists subja watergate -

mie me retrea tune, 192a, enor to reticement ne

was an afficor in she External Emplynaent Artistaace Branch

Retirement Actrunes Dissia of the ottue at Persunnel, Aewas tu assist

introdung post-returement

employment. He had been instrumental

inthe

placement at kent

Pauc to working fur Personnel,

served with

ate had become familiar

actuin.er.cf

Hunt functuned on the cover Achuel staff. Paulie

Hunt conle

Is host came

contact with ul

it en he was attemsting to

handle the public

relatani effort

Inaresacue

to a quester as t. uhether or aut executrue level

Interest was still being shown in nor Hunt's pust-employment.

placement, races recalled that teas, then Dinetter, was listed

as a character reference an me Hurt's resume and Heims signed

a letter of recommendation to the kendecott copper caan Hunty betal!"

contact: was maintained with ar.bunt

an

e uplayse

-a continuining basis , because mrat

ww interested in or

_Hunt for-possible referrels fof athe Agency cehrees), Healso

SECRET

H 17055 DocId:32271071 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

understood. there. was

,and that me dust lecame instrumental in

discussing several aspects of the

operation in nis

Matunt: contacted

on several occasions reguesng refercal.

of retiring at

ageacy complayees

with selfic qualifications -after Hurt

had joined the anite House.

157

the

se Recalled a request for an induidud

e area

ea of locks aad asucceptitious entryi

It was

unpreska

=a rat the duties nuowed would include

the moatecay of a ustening dewer: in an undisclosed locatica

Huot also requested a recommendatin ot a securiry service

organization to cacry our an ele trania cauntermeasures

"sweep."

suspected: the electroniccuuntermeauressweep.

was ta.

be

ant in the offrier of the cummittee to Beneloct

the pres

Associates He had.

twas asked if he eer referred anyone tu mccara

" *.

i recallic that at the time at tuat's

assignmen to maded the statement diseminated fur casumption

wither the Agency was the mr hunt was reticing

- Ca

This was not generally bekeued. He was quite certain that during

thi period his affice handled no project funcuag fir tunt

On Dar Hunt's retica to staif emplaiment the poojects and turding

which stopped in Juy 1965 were 99910

med:

2z Feb 1924- meeting with i

s- He thaught it was

enticaly passible Helmsd karamessines hardled the tuat-maded buner

on their own... He didn't know anytb.rs.

Inierusew with furmer Deputy bet uf Wesbera European Diursun,

00P-ad Feb 1924. He stated the rssignment of mr thint to the

European-Dussusata madrid "was handled without the beretst

SECRET

NW. 47055

DocId: 32271071'

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SI CRET

of the routine pracessing procedures thraugh the western Europear

Diusic Hunt's assignment wai coordnated and directed by

Karamessines

target for stunt.

me war unaware of any spectre prosect of

trent

produced pastie intelligence on thes

target dunng thi penach the officials responsible fur the oshazl!

responsible fue thn effoct within the veitero Eumpean Dilsica

were totally unaware of st The mas. ot info he had about itunt

was bearsay, farexanne, a comment war made bya mütual

acquaintanco:

to the elect that tuntstated that while in

madrid he was going is "playe, alf and write booki.

Hes personal apinion - that Hust had no operational functurand

was simaly granted the oppoctunity ta waste books far bus aun

persanal gaia at quu'* expense

mera for the record, dated alDea 1973, convecsarca

with

10 1964.65.

He was told by

C/Eur i Wha nad beentald by karamessinies that tuat wa

to be assigned ta madrid ai Deos as adirected assignment by Helms.

The Ambassador waild not have tuat a the embary. Attr a couple

manths

s; he was told that Hun was going ta spain under

cauer.

It came to him feum karamessines on Helms'order

Hunt was to have the phone # at the cis, but he would do autbisy

for the station. Hunt was to submit administrate douchers far

reimbursement of his expenser & theywere to be pard. He knows

that there was no specatunal repachi,,, tu indicate that Hunt was

doing anythiag.

cos-/madrid had tak. tom that bedidn't know what

Hurt did.

SECRET

K

NN. 47055 DocId:32271071. Page

10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

@ 22 Feb 1924- Search of Finance recuras to determine i a$3u 000

payosent ta Hunt that requi

required no a cousting, could be feline.

Encedtravel clans fur 1aco 107a Analyzed itunts advance

account for ye in madrid and hove datermined. that

333,500 was aquanced to am for travel and transportation

with ane tea to pacu ta reneus Visas. one stem appeared unusual.

an exsendituce of 11,600 suca sasite operation which was

-approved for weite-ott by

me Deimond Entegecard on iTunello

"Qae strange aspect.af.

the

→ cover assignment in madrid

sthat all the costs

Preete

were chargech to the suppoct allotment

of the EUR Dission wnie

ubich is no Dormal as

cover peaple are

manally

ly assigned to the project. it sununat

to have a caje officer armad. for one jear in an operatione!

:::-

assignment witheist bina incuccing aperational expenditures.

@ memo dated 9 may 1924, by coe:

File Research- Final Report." Recalls that there were occasianzlinquicies

by am. cendents of madrid about the repocted presence in Spara

of illittunt. At no time did rust colact hit, There wai some info

in lara conceroing reported actusties in Spain by

a 290ct 1924 mema from Dir, uf Secur ty - "Leque secords reflect that

for the four week pay perrad encing az Nouember 1963 ma Hunt

took a total of ll hours sick. leaus and no ansual leave wIn the

follang four week pay period: retook 3 haurs sick lease

and a7 hours annual leave. We are wrable to further dearly the

dates on which the abave sick and annual leave were taken

Travel records neflect.that mc.th.ot: conducted no othclal travel

during the month of Nou. Nou.1963.",

SECRET

OK

|N 47955 DocId: 32271071 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

D memo fur necerd, a0 Jept 1934 -by seD. Breckincidge

'"Hunt's" teavel recoçdi shous otticial trauel in Seatember,

actaber and December, but none in Nauember ; all at this

travel was to New York " "a

i..?c

Strmistates that we -

alceady krow, as a result at resporses

to previous requeits

that we

e have

C1C4 00/2090 Mu6gap

=wurda:

noirecaros:

on stugis that would show

similar infusmatiin s he wasnot an agency employee

""Secunty prouded us with a colima by Jaek Andersin, of

nGoni

16 Apeel 1924, in wbich he cavered the Hunt-Sturgis rumuc,

ausalssingite A caay of the neus columnis attached. thiswaull

suggest that ;rather than polue pbotagrapis of persons

t=.í.

rouoded up and booked , the pbitegranbs in question are

raodona sparshots of crowds. If this is correct there would be

no related paice tungerpriat reuiras that could becbecked

fur veriticaticin

a) memo fur Depury Dinecter fur adrainistratzen Frum Dir at

Securrly

subjiftaltent's Date a3 0ct 1924, Discusies

allegativa segarding tunt * stui gui "mr Sturg' was oot

assoclated with the Agency in any manser in ivovember

1963." FBI siaisen afficer interuiewed bint an 70ct

1974 and Hurk aduved at that time that be had learned

of the assassination of JFK "an bis car radia while be

was ina leave statu, in the-Washungtun Dicarea!!

2 memo fuc the record, dated ao December 1973, ay

Breckinridge.

Hust was inth.e:

Divisien andenAug 196.4

was assigaedta t

e. "I gave » as.a.

possible press tceatment that i un.)

-wasengaged indomestze

operatione (sometbing senator öaker pursüing) and that

SECHET

OK

NW 47055

. DocId:32271071. Page 12

---

## Page 13

SE RET

bus assignment to spain atter the election could be presented

as guing him trone to

cool atf.

- Background la June insa

Employed by cIn

team

his voluntary

retirement an a0 aper 197a

1971 - serued as anadusocio: Naun-chiera tres.

"Subject

ileceit to the central lour staft

10X202.

Dec lasa- assigned

Chief of Stat in mexico City

servedas Coretoossia

there e atil 1953

Talgigo, Japan-

JUNE 1954

tO FE 6 1957

CDS- muntaudea;

until asly 1960

June 1960- assignen to mexico City- on Project-

Nou 1961- reassigned to the Daffcovert Action staff

• Jan_ 1962

to office of the ChieF LDDP

July 1962-

to: there

Researca and Publications

Section in wastiago

July 1964

to

Covert. Actin staff

Feb 1965 :

"office of the Doe Loreratons Graue

Jure: 1965- seat 19606- cuntact agent- madad.

Sent 1966a Chief af Europera Court Operations untal

retirement 30A prel 1920.

6 Nor 1970 -

graated a cove

security Appraual tur

use by Centeal Cover Staff

la sunelara- Inquiry of Centrt cover stuif en a tunelaza

revealed_that. thesisa current relationsh.

Subject's see. file reflect that l'unt ta the past, has been of

operarural interest to ma Jam.s Angleton.

SECRET

K

NW 47055

DocId:32271071 Page 13

---

