# 180-10144-10220

## Page 1

180-10144-10220

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

865-8241

Questions to Bernard Barker:

Afa

Associations: *

Settor Horr?

Did you know the following individuals in Cuba?

1.

Pr. Mario Lazo

2.. Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari

s. Were you acquainted with the following individuals

involved in anti-castro actinities?

THIS COPY IS NO

FOR RELEASE.

Pre BoP.

1. Frank Fiorini

2. Pedro. Diaz Lauz

3. Marcos Diaz Lauz

4. Bill Johnson

5. Reipaldo Pico Ramon

6. Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez or (Fernander)

7.. Pedro Martinez Fraga

8. Alexander Rorke

9. Mignee "Cuco" de Leon.

10. Aldo vera Seratin

11. Carlos Peleaz

12. Richard zaragos;.

13. Antonio Veciana Manuel.

Artine

14. Manuel Antonio de Varona.

15..

Marion Coubi.

16. Quentin Pino Machado

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10144-10220

---

## Page 2

rectan

c were you acquainted with the following individuals?

1. (Patrick, Karley)

03

9. Fack Stewart

2. James Spears)

10 (Rucie R. Hardeste

3. (Woodrowe. Olen)

4. (Phillip Toomey)

08

5. Frank Bender (race do eJ Dr

BOOT N. TOMOrATO

Arintorila

6. Howard Hunt.

5E4-7354

1. Bernard Reichardt.

8. (Fames voce)

Ask of all associates:

1. Nature of relationship durily these periodo of time:

1959-60 Hara

1960-61. Pre- Bay of Pigs

1961-66 - Post-Bay of Pigs.

---

## Page 3

Events:

Did you ever receir information regarding:

/.. Alpha be activities, especially regarding

Antonio reciana. in 1962

2. Activities of Erelio Duque Miyar in M63

3. Allegatios that lus. Rusebio lujal macaine

u.s.aena

by ari contact a relative in the

Castro Cabinet in as to assist in the

overthrow of the Castro government.

4. Activities of Cuban groups, such as

- the CRC

- JURE

- Funta de Gobiemo de Cuba en exilio

(Paulino Sierras group)

s. Activities of the Diaz hand brothers, Frank

Forini & Bil Johnson in 1963.

6. Plans to assassinate Castro. Did anyone

discuss such plans with you?

Oflunts investifation into the assassination (ca. 197p3)

?. Did you ever hear afters from any source that

a Castro Cuban was supposed to assist

in Lee Harvey swalds escape to Cuba, tollorin

the assassination!

---

## Page 4

Travel:

Did you travel outside Cuba in 1959? Where?

After leaving cuba Papol

for the u

Did you travel in your activities with

the ... FRD?

Prior to the Bay of Pigs,

where did you travel?

Did you go anywhere imite shortly

ather. The bay of higs?

Did you travel m.

1962?

Travel Win 65,

Did you travel in 1963?

Documentatin:

April

Then you travelled, what identifying

credentials did you carry with

you?, ед.

drivers license, dratt card, semicID,

Did you have a passport under your own

or. another name?

Wha' So sum int did you we when you

Who issued these documents to you?

left Cba?

---

## Page 5

from

Hunts

book.

Employment:

What were your activities with:

Is. Militany - 1942-1950

Cuban Police Dept.

How were you employed. 1951-19x0 to present,

Especially for periods: 1959-1460

1960-1966

1966-to present?

US. Agency Association:

Did you ever have contact with Uis. Treasun Dept

where you still tired in Cuba?

Did you have any contact with the FBI while

you lived in Cuba?

Huntsbook

When did you segin your association with

the CIA?

When did you fist meet Prank Bender?

When did you first meet Howard tent?

When did you become his assistant?

How long did you remain his assistant?

Did he help you bith get regards to your

citizenship states? When?

Whs else assisted you?

Did Hunt assist eson in any ther was?

---

## Page 6

Chron:

1960-61

Phile working for. Hunt, did you have contact

with: Мапие!. Artime

Antonio Varona?

Did you disture any funds to these pindividuals?:

Did you kuow Pedro Diaz Lanz?

Did you ever give Diaz hant any money? t

Did Hunt ever request on supply any monty

for you to give to Dias hans.

were you ever present at any meeting with

Dias Lant and tent?

Did you ever assist in obtaining tunds for

the repair of an airplane used by Diaz

Did you ever assist in Obtaininy tund for release

official

" of an airplane used by biaz Lauz?

Did Hunt ever have occasion to investigate the

possibility of an association between you?,

Fiorini prior to 1962?

was Hunt ever aware of any association

between you and Borini prior to 19627.

1961→

Atter the Bay of Piss in 1961. did you continue

towes work for the ayency in Miami o

Assewhere?

What was the nature of your activitle during the

remainder of April? Ма? June? 196?.

What traves did you tendertake in turtherance of

---

## Page 7

this activity?

Did you at any time during this perinal

travel to other localities within the

continental o.s.?

Did you, under your own name or anybody.

elses, become involed in any foreign

trewel thre out the western Hemisphere

Kurope? Escohere?

Who accompanied you?

*Werew did you leaves when did you retwo?

What reports did you mace?

Did you eugage in any activities, clandestin

or Aherwise, Which

you did not dieuss

or report to your case officer?

Pism whom did you sweats from Summer 1961 to

december 14?

the summer of 1961.

After snaste on ou

supposen then were you next

in contact with Hosterd

Hunt?

What was the nature of these

subsegrent contacts? ]

alien de, 61-64

with whom in the anti-castro communiy in

vian did you retain contact? Tuse st

What was the nature of the contact!

---

## Page 8

tozethore

ola CRC

mao FRD

+ Aatme mos

militay head

de Varona

Antine

- head ICKC - lost cIn

+ suppor

in Aprol

-

in Wie. - training invasion -

Carlos Fronqu':..

- defecten to Fronce 250

Juan Almerda - Lead of AF

Regeno Boti - cabinet

---

## Page 9

QUESTIONS TO BERNARD BARKER

ASSOCIATIONS:

A...

Did you know the following individuals in Cuba?

1. DI. Mario Lazo

2. Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari

Were you acquainted with the following individuals involved

anti-Castro

activities?

1. Frank Fiorini

2. Pedro Diaz Lanz

3. Marcos Diaz Lanz

4. Bill Johnson

5.

Reinaldo Pico

6. Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez

7. Pedro Martinez Fraga

8.

Alexander Rorke

9.

Miguel "Cuco" de Leon

10.

11.

Aldo Vera Serafin

Carlos

Peleaz

12.

Richard Zaragosi

≥3..

antonio Veciana Blanch

14.

Mariou Cobi

15.

Quentin Pino Machado

16.

Manuel Artime

17.

Antonio Varona

C.

Were you acquainted with the following individuals?

1. Patrick Karnley

03

[2. James Spears ]

3.

woodrow C. Olien

ML

---

## Page 10

BARKER, page 2

4. phillip. loomey)

5.

Frank Bender

---

