# 180-10143-10177

## Page 1

180-10143-10177

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatior. System

Identification I orm

Agency Informa ion

Date:

3/25/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10143-10177

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 28-29-01

Document Infor nation

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE: CARLOS, JOHN WILSON HUDSON

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

CIA, FILES

WILSON, JOHN HUDSON

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 19

49.1

N₩ 47055

DocId: 32271981 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Les luè wizelman

768478

DDO

Carlos

SECRET

-John wilson Huase

soft File-From.sward 201.

O memo to Director Pm DOR

FOIA DOC 11385-736

1a DEG 1963

-p 5

1="Associated press datelined 6 July 1959, Havana, carriec

story_aboutwilsch.who.sq.u4.hehadbegun.a.seuen

day hunger strike to protest hisarrest and nadto

betod intravenously at Cubels national Police

Hos.pital. Although-polic-dened.wilscn.was.coa

hungerstrke, a huspital intern cad that newas.

suffering from physical exhaustice brougt on by hu

refusal to cat.

Accocair.g.toa16.Julg1959

Havana press repect, wilsons wife, a chilean.

nared Eliana Brenfman, said wilson nad

recerved a law degre: from Oxfund university.

and had bught in the. Iaterashanel. Brigade

during the

spanst Caselwer.

"On 18 August 1959 wilsun walkech intothe us.

Consulate, kingsten, Jamuch, and said he wasa

journaisstwnona.d.yuit.been released ather

54.deys_detentren_in Habana.prvc.

_Or al August

1959-

theks.consulate1kingstoassued.4isdn

a single entry nomimigrant usa.He was

carrying Britishd

Port 147356 issued

Havana 14-A

in the name of Jans

Wilson. He was attemptiny to get aur passase to

miami in order to sel his 1114039t0 the miami

NH 47055

DocId:32271981 Page 2

---

## Page 3

=2..

Herald and then to obtain

pew use trem

Chilean consulate to return home. {uk or Chile

sat specified.but apparently he returned to uk)

Classifiad massage - orig: Juhn moWntien

Ressaring ofbeer.

I wnitten by authority.of

Richard Helms.

_ROIA DOCE# 206-83

Cite. 85.657

-25N0U13

stars wilsun's allegatus a " Misstory is.

boing-followed.up.".

TO: lobite House: Attni mr. mcGeorge Bundy

_Attri u. Alexis Johnien.

FBI

Pram: CJA.

1-p.po-a-

/Cable to Din from Landon 79 NON 19.63.-

-LOND 6115

#FOIA DOC# a33-9º.

ip..

"Altho station tracing- John Wisen aka wilson

Hudson with JAGUAR, belleuean forst returns fam

FBI chock he likely- bie psychopath-staticn

gathers ho gave this in ression ushen testifying

befure fastland cummittee in si. We are

therefuce nut pursuing-further ercept thru

they have on bim."

LCHE

1004039

N# 97055

DocId: 32271981 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-3-

SECRETA

aolFte Requeit

From WH/I/Chile

-Dated 29 Oct 1959

"Acquired Spanuh citizenshes abort 1936. Mt

presentin Latin America."

hardwrißen at bottom. uf page -

"'In centact with suspected soulet Agents,"

signed martha 30.@ Clay.p.a.dr

Associate a Berte set Suharou

_Reoort_frcm_Santiaga-chr1a8Bug-57 a 51-

sourceis of_apinen_that-wilsonis very-probably

an intelligence agent and that he is under directin

of sume service....

биттату

@'a01 Name check'sheet

Reterences 1 Yes

_Archives References:no

Apolicant or Erpluy-re Referances: su..

memo for recora, 6 Oct 1959 Subject "carltonn

wisen Huelsun.."

ECRE

reportsthat-tudsun.isas.paniish.crtiden.c.f

Britsh descent who at last report was la presen in

tavana.cuba,-having.beer.arrested with paul Hughes,.

an_American_soldibrof.detune_acteuein.cevotutunerg

intrigues in the Caribbean.

1064040

NH 17055

DocId: 32271981 Page 1

---

## Page 5

-4°

SECRET.

a.wilscnmay.b@summ.arrzedasaperson.ef

intelligence, but so erratic as to be consider so

mentally unbalanced at times. He is a soldier

ot fortune, haung begur hes career in July 1986

when he left ontard totight in sparn. He has

been_accused_@f_warking._furthe intelligence:

services of sevoral countries, and he himself

has.claimedtahaveac.ad.anbehalf.ofditferent

intelligence services. He has been consistently

anti- united states."

5

icable-

-19 Dec 59

To-Dir frem Havana.

HAVA

307₴

Ref. A. Dis 07261

B. HAUA 2296 (San Dir Only)

C. ODACIO 1E0 FrEM ASUN

In Ref B HAWA_repured RAMCHITTEe In cantact

with_une Juhn.CarlWilson..."

memoranaum_of_conuersat.cn-Particepants: Carl J.

Wilsin Hudsen of the Wilson Press and Public

RelatnsInccrpurated.iantraga_cubu and

Richard-A. Ericson, JC. _Ist sec.at Am. Enibassy.

10 tenden. Date April 7, 1964 1Am. Embassy.

subj: "Interest uf Carl J. Wilson Hudsun in

Paletcal Intelligence."

"mr. wilsun called in menApril 7."

Staled he had a chidion who were theren

santiago. "Mr.wilsor-said that he had

come_to-creatBritam..au

1044041

N# 47055

DocId:32271981

Page 5

---

## Page 6

-5-

SI CRE

and had been here ince. Hell planning, howeuer, to

return to santrago urthin the next two weeks.

largelybecause.neil.w.able.tosup.p.urt

hemself here and longer unce the chilean Government

has retured permission fur the remittance of funds.

he holds in santiago. Mr. Wilson gave his present

address as 35 Craven Terrace

→, Lancaster Gate,

kondun, Widi telephune-PADdington 9a76..

Commert: "This is the second time wilson hzs

approached.me toshown.interest...n. intelligence.

matters. The foret time wa shortly after merdent

kennedy was assassinated, when he said that he

had been impresaned in tavana by Cartre 1-1959.

THe alleged that while in awared he was in

prison, meals for a sellous-prisaner, a former

gambling-czar.intavana.with.oarty.ausoctanen

withthes-capone.ganghack.been._broug.nt.to

the prison by a man who dent hed himself.

as "Ruby? and who bure a physical lesemblance

to the man bring tried for oswald's murder..

SECKED

10-4042

NW 47055

DooId:32271981.

Page 6

---

