# 180-10145-10263

## Page 1

180-10145-10263

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassinatio: | System

Identification orm

Agency Inform ition

Date:

4/19/201 .

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10145-10263

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTIO!

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 54-07-03A

Document Info mation

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/20/1978

23

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

MEXICO CITY STATION

CIA, METHODOLOGY

NOTES

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

01/01/2003

Box 29

NH 47055 DocId: 32273050 Page 1•

---

## Page 2

TO:

MM.

Goldsmith

Select Committee on Assassination

House of Representatives

Room 3391 House Annex # 2

2nd a 1 Streets S.W.

•Nasi.: D.G. 20515

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

TRANSMITTAL AND, DOCUNENT RECEIPT

VISCA

FRCM:

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Room 7 D 35

Washington, D.C.

20505

27 April 1979

INFORMATION

CONTROL NUMBER

ACTION.

LOAN

RETENTION

DOC. DATE

SUBJEC

(Unclassified preferred)

20 Mar 75 ilotes of Hardway & Gildsmith & Wolf

Dillenger & Gestatoe:

C000253-0000275

CLASS.

SECRET

CIC 413-1546

SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt

of

above

documents)

DATE: OF RECEIPT

ORM

787S 37728

RECEIPT

RETURN TO

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C.

20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK,

ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK

3

- CANARY, OLC HOLD BACK

NH. 47055 DocId: 32273050

Page 2

---

## Page 3

i,

Record copy

SECRET

KENNEDY

OLG RECORD COPY

Address_

City/State

Date of Birth

Social Security

Physical Descriptid

Height

weight

Ethnic Group

INVESTIGATION INT IRVIEW SCHEDULE

20/78

Lace CIALHQ

telephone

'pouse

children

(OloI Eyes

Hair

≤ pecial Characteristics

Personal History:

a. Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

b.

Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

Relative(s) : . Name

Address

1. Area frequented:

C. irrasts:

PROMENED

8 22

SEC RET

• 0000253

#H 47055

DocId: 32273050

Page 3

---

## Page 4

the release bitterns

he had been the headof the

Sorriet diction Jof the mesico

City Station is 1965 His main

atywas to get information an=

torret persosinel and their

petites don ranag.

nageactivities.

counteres ge goals m

Irestetendiç as responsible

of the sariet Embass

barnet personnels and ne

obtainin

personnet and thorough

ro were in contact

0000255

---

## Page 5

and would review

on interest

tong portance

to Mr. Isestetenslattention

Bath Mo Desetner Jand

transit from thing.

although the English

were usually recieved later

than the Spanish one

Mra Villenger indicated that

she hoid a "working kingledge"

of spanish.

responsible. for reportin

the infor

con he developer

Iden

d that a report

would either be writtent

treports office SPRET

0000255

7055

DooId: 32273050

Page

---

## Page 6

Exploiges

13

SECRET

In 1963 Mrs EVillenger]

was workisglana

pant time ont

at basis ]

the trans-

scripto s

as a

production was not

refered it to

the

steles paced cong

carton copies of the transcripts

n jellow paper extracts

from. the. transcriptives

put into appropriate subject.

on "p" files.?

that a chee

thought that suche file

wais also kept on the

production of the

sepast ent pect, subject

files were designated bya

four pasto

numberi(ex: 80-00-0=0)

,ECRE

0000256

---

## Page 7

SEC RET

Both Will nges

digged that mater. She

al station d hey

rababy destrayed

bencheleft in 1969

close working relatonship

with

Sand

rems

mes when ther

noone elsetado it?

icendibestetne

Ifrom the tay appould yourally.

---

## Page 8

SICRET

-5-

malfunction.

That Tel

of ever tie the embassy.

nes of the contier?

mo.s

matising prepared

personalitiesments orally

17055 DocId: 32273050. Page 8

---

## Page 9

6

SEGRET

ou in writing seperate

from the tren

bestebnentdoes

remembe

Cations but

i that se

i made the int

broken Russian

withé

nithingso interesidhe

vas not case contac

satations on temporate le

seperate

did indicate that

that he deatte

did make the potation

Ason

0000259

---

## Page 10

SEGRET

about Qaia dis Russias

He said that hi had never

ordered.

Ascare

nabena go annot to

said that

iss an exact

Tatia hear determi

sidea ted chat that

embassy but at the privat

residencs.of.darvet.abficials

Mo sertetneg and that

there were nor penetration

agents in

sitter the sorret

sulated s Militany

attachis officer!

said helen had bertener

---

## Page 11

-SECRETS

Sartast

RAine nestricted

A personally lilia

tions, and on race occasion

trarismittal of the takes ail

discist me selier

other trimo g

thaniar

stator and tha

he use

ther

dhey bath said that

Rave Phillips

and that he mas chief of

The

had lies bied that he

realaced

as Chef as culia

aperations but were

---

## Page 12

ET-3 Al

SENRET

They said that

the Embassy

Dillenger and Sertetnin

said that task hitters was

the head of te mexicgdeskoni

and that

al the post o, their recollation

on the mexico.

desk. They said that the infor.

get all Rati would

information; cable scould

nat have go.n't

there uras

i heartners.

so higher

iterest involved.

w. reportaga paregner visiti

a foreign embarry emilal nort

---

## Page 13

1D.

SECRET

higher atten

incheated that sucha

repo

Esplague

Cubanduction

as an analyst in the

TED 20AIOA

the " clicke"

trat enjoyed

Scott's absolite confidence

and.was.mivelued.in

the sensitive susterlang.

operations...

SECRET

0000263

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Euplinee

isadalco

legstetner

one ran

Emalsgen

ranithe

Employee

phy

cal suareilhansce team

was a

technician involved in

mostaf the

-opezations, if

and meat a said that

said teet the fees ers

before

re-use

Mr Resetner said that

the transcript. He does not

recallererunstructne

not to make mangal com

SEGRET

6000264

---

## Page 15

-j2=

SECRETA

said

I theis training as intelligence

officers

were sea and silen

ndependent recollectio

fihow@sisild.first.come

to their attention Allenger.

indicated that here memory.

was that the fas

informations

hat she had

recieved about @swald.

was the

this was seekin

indicated bustetner.

revived the file perio

to our intrew gai

his recollection was that

the first notice that they

had

a traw-

мірка надастро

They were the in thomangot

0000265

---

## Page 16

4-3-

USE RET I

Allege dad at recall"

ranso

timist have freen

the 0F

becai se of the

lanty of the infor When

iked whethesthere wava

reference to as visa in the

lagde that on, she acho

Atheniasked

to as this inference

and the fact that he was

recurrma

She said?!

---

## Page 17

/ 4.

SECRET

chickin

no recollectio

the photos. afte

the stations file

cable MExi 8:153) and, at th

she first..

Sesto

that e t

acknowledged.

ing instruction

directine

one of the 9/27

conversations to the Oswald

0000267

ocId: 32273050 Page 17

---

## Page 18

15:

SECRET

youthle in distant

this notation iorild hav

been made at there the

the "p" file.

Stened. Botl

ickna PERS

printer to agassiation

photo of th. mmm.and.

aid she thought that that

since Aswald tad indicated.

previoi@its.in.the

interce

that in pete prit

---

## Page 19

-16 SECRET

fre have bain reservid.

She also said the

addea il

were

ave been

nation reque stead had been done.

---

## Page 20

17

-SETBET

to the date of this mes

0000290

---

## Page 21

1:18

SECRET

then

ive all chap

this had inhibals that.

with Dave Phillips

Settelner acknowledges

hear at hang mine

isanswer.candidenied.en

S4d had had

pha had his it that

taben laya terrest in Russia

---

## Page 22

19

SECRET

would sey to that

uniting Mex 2009 106

pledged!

-explained

guse

a cate of the poto

a Octiber 28 by saring

that there can be enrai

He noted that the inference

was that tire date wais

September 28-

Neither Festetores nor

Apleted to la the

Emplogee

Theyuwere arked alat

the reference in Mexicoss

Tiris u

3950--Bage 22

Malist

---

## Page 23

20-

SECRET

sestties said that

heidid not linow whether

the concenation obedies

vas repentea befia os

Bertetnes, could not

ixalam wh

Mexi 7033

which headin

soiledged

unition

sail that all a

available had len

reported ge

the 9/27

aniversations, the sist had

nat been reported. He can

maplan en mel

Mexi 7.034,

9/28/63

Sestetron

that itpik

clot have been

hany any

enough on 140 t

at least o tines and not have

been picked sorry the phate

47055- DooId: 32273050

---

## Page 24

ZStCRET

van and thatato

arantime

state the said

it was not spiring to

respond

to his requent fara photo.

sand that

enviet embassy alone is

possibility fa foreign.

spiracy insolving

When shown the

see in spani

---

## Page 25

SEC?ET®

Breleased

~ than ASEA

staff members

SECRET

-6000275

MH 47055 DocId: 32273050

Page 25

---

