# 180-10141-10246

## Page 1

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

180-10141-10246

UNCLASSIFIED

177374

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: ' (Optionel)

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

MAR

8 2 30 PH 78

Patrick L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative

Counsel

1133

DATE.

8 March. 1978

TO: /Officer designation, room numbar, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Numbar each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Mr.

Shepanek

/ 0/SA/DO/0

Tube: DX6-Green

Attached is the summary

which Patricia Orr, HSCA,

prepared:

Could you please

review them as soon as

possible.as

she wants to take

them out of the building.

Please forward them back

Please advise me of

any delays.

5.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

•11.

15.

FORM

i3.1l Sturdist 3

Chris-CoE

Pilar

1378

ATCH

ma, to de.

Orrod Rage

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOGUMENT

AS SANITIZED

AFPROVED FOR

59:1083

CIA HISTORI

EVEN MOGRAM

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

10141-10244

---

## Page 2

TEME

1 2/24/78

Pedro. Dias hamz

201

I.

7 - 24 out 59

Routing $ Recond Sheet

_to Hunt reud 30/10

forwarded = nov..

of Diar lauz fle:

- GA Wash affire 2400t 55

Involvit

so That plane pote

by Pedro Diaz Laur to

drop lafles. and prob bombs over Havana 24.00t55

hay

Castro.

2e oet sa piloted sy haur to disrupt.

- Bissatch...

23 Out. 59.

attached sample of talete dropped, from...

Diar Lans's

plene. 21 out 59

- Dispateh... 18 Sept 59.

Me: operationae...

to chick WHD from Havana COS

crypts:

PDL

Suby.

said he had fore to trans and talked aDL.

piss; who told him that he needed a mow.

on hi teams anganisatia, in he son de cod

in the luban. Air

to join him.: He instructed

The subject to see his

Torce who has willis hasana contact an ethe

pr griers expiltration

Subj... asked to

us Habana contact Dita.

notaude or Raynock) had Mis

capability, and

Station

assumes

that

anowered hat tray did.

---

## Page 3

2/24/78

SECRET

Pedro Draz hauz

DDO

ac di tr Loki

- described as leater of group, most inte

Group was cautioned about need.

for secunty:

"However, there it a close and apparenth

unshakeable relationship-with people like

Frank Pionini $ Other people / whom

were core die he

revolution. I hare.

about..

Fiorini speciti

eared are always responded by mat

ресозніну.

That

Fioriki sa threat in

taries too muck.. But as and 7 (sic)

proceed with nhit...

..it hao to be cone mi

the expectation That trini and others are going?

others and the hand of ther people.

have greatly around Thit prong

and me wid

thathe an

being informed of their actstils!"

Lieute deta dani

- In Manch

went to.

s/ rank of Amb

deal re:

58 mil 10

reporternally paid thim lettes of credit....

- Drspatch.

4 my 59. To Chief WH Die from Miamila

Report on Miami base involvement in Arrival of

pedro Diaz sant in U.S.

Lazz party - Diaz Lan his nite Tania, Sergio Diaz

Brell; Carlos Echegoyen.

Echegoyet Bruell. had

charsired... boat to

pick ap braz

Logiz.

_tanted to

hoot party several Myse

- Diaz concerned

laDALUM, @DARBOR assisted. hiding Diaz.

Mayor. 0110 o7.

Army..usted,

wanted to talke

Diar

despote. Gas attempts to.

Let him rest.

Tentative plan. was Diaz would taken pion INS,

put in a secure plece, mored to another area

in country put thre intensive interrogation

he wonde

sesfaced..

Gen. Cabele expected to discuss matter,

---

## Page 4

(

2/24/18

Lanz

207

PLDL

ROS

ADCHAR

'Subs". also

expiration into for as TODORE contaCts

that (6D13(43)

•m Miami

ODACID.

- DOC. Cross ref for 201-259/20 (Lanz 201 File)

Ricard Luis LORiA

311 PAssport 09552

→ Tar Lan

valle - ca.

1928, аз

age 32-

assport 10693. 1e/7 Costa Tira for Miram

24. Dec 58 and rechtered costa Rica from

Fla a

Mexico ou 31 Dec 58

remo... for

record.

7 Ang 59.

of former President Galo Plaza of Ecuoldo.

Moscoso...told me in stret confidence that his

800d... prena. renador. Amb to ass (Escudero)

daimed. to have into and cocam. proving haz Lan

red ape as cong on Din. Benite

- Dispatch

7 9ne 59: t0 Whief WH DIN trom Miami.

karnte J. Re: Meeting n/ @DOLS, Q DCHAM,

ADCOVE

-Subis. will resist groups.

which bear Battsta faint.

tansmitter on. boat

positions. in the Caribbean fea

---

## Page 5

2/24/78

SECRET

Pedro Diaz Lanz

DDO

-described at leater of group, most intellig

Group was cautioned about need

for secnny:

"However, there t a close and apparenth

unshakeable relationship.with people like

Frank Borini $ Othen people w/ whom

Fioriki a threat in.

by rearminis

too much. But as and I (sic) tre

and me with

thathe.ang

To me re a paid Kin Uta of credit.

s8 mit which

- Dispatch.

4 Ag. 59.

to chief wMDir from Miami Charade

Report on Miami base involvement in Arrival of

pedro Diaz LanE an U.S..

Lazz party - Diaz Lauz his wife Tania, Sergio Diaz

Brell; Carlos behegoyen.

Echegoyen: Bruell had

charsered.

boat. to pick ap biaz.

wanted. to

woe party several dros

- Diaz concerned

(ADALUM, @DARBOR assiSted hiding Diaz

Major 0110 of

Diar despite Cits artempts to....

Army nited, wanted to tale

Tentative plan... was Diar would"taker foon INS,

put in a secure. plece, mored to another area

in country, put thre intensive interrogation

ther. removed.. to foreig are whie.

he would be

feetfaced....

Gen Cabele expected to discuss matter sur

SEGRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

2/24/78

Redro... Diza Laur

PDO

e. turn over of Diaz to karne! Complications them

- different versions of..

what passed betw

Gen. Cabel

and ben swing; appearance of Eastland.

committer rep.

ice Die Leapsin Wah Post -

7-24-59 - " Defeeting

-- Memo for Record 15 July 1959

e: Testimony of Diaz Lan

(testified 144 July)

nomines

2 соритого

Indel, Rane, Lilma Castro, Ernesto Guevara, Anton

runer, Armando Hast, Manuel Pineiro,

Pimiro valder, Ellio comer ochoa,

Arman

tina, tru Escalona,.

David salvador,

Bayo, Prank torre...

хо. laug.

article.

ral 59. "verdadera Estatura Crica.

Pedro Bits Diaz Lann

- CIA.. Memo of Conversatio 10 Inh, 59

Dir of intellig

биrcаn....

- Draft Memo for Record. Fek initialed)

diaz in Miami....

haone:

Byers so wit: Sergio Diar

Carlos Echigora (former,

cincian in lusan AFDuell. Who hadabtained boatin

ridmi which was used fo

bring Diaz from Cuba, had...

gone to see Byes immed. after their release...

HAtS. they

were accompanied in, traink timing, in

SEGMET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

3/4/78

Pedro Diaz Lanz.

DDO

citizen w/reputation as shady ondressman.

appear before senate sub commitle; would

receive 100%% us ford support in overthronin

Castro.

Prior 10 Diaz departure the luban fir Force

c-46 ond one B.25 aircraf

Fiorinis name:

Rigin fort: yen to sell inert te

* over te

Fiorinarket. Byers.

85e in to prian pana tell

Dricussion.

- Paper - 7 Fuh

• Diaz

Re Diaz-publicity e

- Cable from Dir to foreign L.4. Stations

2 Euly 59

- Requests max. press and radio expestation 0f

defectin.

20 Fune of Diaz Lans i recommend

tions on. passiolars of story.

- bispateh..

2 Fuly 1959 to Chief WHS from COS Hason

re Diaz Lanz-Mise - encloss- 2 copies of litte

fron. Dias sant to tuban president

Cable.. 22 ин 59: To Dir.. from Havana

Re: departure 0f. Diaz Lauz

for U.3. Regueotiz

LODURGE not divulge entry PBPRIME of pedes

Diaz. Lauz

Cable. 2i tune 59 to Dir from Havana.

Re: Diaz Laus departure

w/ help. 07 Fim. Bryes

American,. Pres. Aerodex.

comp using Bryer yacht.

anzequests no publickly..

SECTAT

---

## Page 8

C

В

(

SEGNET

2/24/78

Pedro Diaz hanz.

DDO.

- Suformation Repors... 16 Fun 59

Re:

Chief of tir Forces. Confidential stuttments abort weed

frr....

counter revolution againot. Castro.

ouree: Us businessma

at length / source regarting symptoms it.

Castros communist tendencies

- Cable 7 Jon 59

to Dir from santiago de Cuba.

Ree cuban to no Dean be built up tim

e. Lusan

Sha. Terma

atrocities.

piozini s Hom Diaz bourer thiet Resel birth

Cable....

Rept... 3 tons.

25 10r s to r From to Cit ump chocan,

Michoacasi,,

l American captured - of asans- Pedro Ruiz Lanz

probot Diaz lanz) and Amer = Frauk. Riorini.

Fiorini

hamed co-pilot and onner. plane C-46..

Fiorini knows

as ....

"Francisco" among Casano.

Of nteres absence name..

Ricardo de la Lorie

Cable 22 Nor. 58

spatzingas Airpos Michsacam.

nant,.. Frank Forin.

-Cable 14 Now 58

Rept Richarda de la Lorie-. brought air plane phoecin,..

trit., scheduled for depasture i on 13 Now. for. Keratur

мех.

enronte renezuela.

Diaz Lans will prob acconfid

de la horie.

- Cable 11. NoV.58

$ Draz Lauz

Ricardo de la torre

Vin San Francisco: Fiorini left rex

---

## Page 9

SEGRET

for Frisco by car.

car night 4 Nor. meet pilots.

Govemor Hotel -

- Cable 2 Nor 58 to Dir from hex City

Man tran.

la horie, poss. going tenezuela

Cable

300đ 38

to Dir from.

rex city

Ric. de la horie aud Draz Lanz an.

hex cit by car

27 0x 58. Believed had wish trouble at bond

Unidentified man. accompanied them,

addresses...

Diaz lanz;

pist of Beecheras plane N-48-9, who disits kingston

often. and believed by

tamaica polire.to.be

Castro contier or pilst.

Fignero said Diaz only brought

Personal preetings...

201 tile request

To

«'/ Analysis section... 5 Jal 1959.

nonsensitive

(

---

## Page 10

SECRET

Sanitized

PEDRO DIAR. LANZ

DDO

- News artides =

Angost,

• Apn! 1976

NY. DalL

News. - 21 April 1975 by Paul Meski!

- Dipath to Chief from Chief DELETED-GET FUL

Progress Rept

1-31 Aug: 63.

W/ help of.

Piorini-able to keep informed of

acristies of Diaz Lauz.

bros. " анстры то ты

air raid over cuba.

• Information

then passed to local security agencies in time

for them to thwart plans.

- Daily ummas

-Itus 63

Right. B1 28 Ful

over Havana aborted-bomb,

leafer raid planned.

Possponed.to.31 fulyon

" Fiorini to head.

for.

Lans bros to leave cars at horne to appear as

though They are home, but will ate set ne to

usd. or raid it loatа.. Fiorinisaid

size. and... filed wy nuts and bott for strapher

Ranion Garcia + former Cuban aireines pilor

to have participated in raid

- 8 may 63-Fiorim told source he had beck

approached in Marcos to patca up difference

and cooperate in "anti-castro actino". Sais

---

## Page 11

C

SEGRET

homey from liban in wash who has helped.

bets only per us into person would tea

turn indirect channels. Aanz bros.

sale of yacht.

"soris tad been working a the bros. until a fallin

out linow is now evidently being reprined.".

3. - Мето - re

20 alept to Pee, 20A Tope Photo

Cuba. m

- Memo to S.J. Grogan

.,asst to Director

--investigation bus. auth.

but

made

"wm Johnson,

raspered by storie -

Swanner., Fiorin

drops.

appeas 61 overflight- camasse

for leafle.

porke. Claimo

went. as 0s1eire

Massan....

10. Dеc.....

leafless tound or Norman lay

14. Dee. Thompsow flew to 7t Laudedale to pick

and Forni

Andros Island.

Fing a poor and pane Conica ay a Dai

mitti, Folinson chaster sane in

photos of pink flamingos.

satternorer.la

Swanner

and beane until har 63- stony plane shot den

SEPTE

---

## Page 12

SECRET

In tast

Johnoon, have had none ..

Porke daim GA Sponsorship.

(

March 62.

denied.

midication. from Castros specke

No what happened.

info on sher

re a metreferences, including:

"elements of incident as

ps..

Swanners. 81or°

Forini

hacing driver Swanner,

'It Lauder dale to Lond

oat w/ leafer

- Ms. swanners repte trip to Anchos Island

i had for and friend of her has band

- to mom plane, clo to lie Buriana,

Ref.

to rantino-prob. John lineent hartino

sentenced to.

oct.

62 - not De. putton in us; released

was not, it

по ampld by CIA.

SEADET

---

## Page 13

volume X

12/9/60 Cable to Director fr. WAvE

Manilton impressed u/ mans sineerity & potential

CODBIAS: PORIAS enthusiastiz over ref.

trip but wanted very careful preparation i

order to artid any poss. fail. Suggested amph

adiance publicity order condition leost

fovement to granting necessan usas

and landing permits.

QD Bias speeding up work on A/S Which

can be ready 0/A 15 Dec. Plane

can accomodate number named WAVE

2051

C/s comment: HQS approved planning

Diaz hanz propaganda "Flight of truth"

as proposed HQS by TWICKER

12/8/60 Cable to Dir Ar WAVE

Carlos Oscar Echepyen Leon plans expose.

in leading magazine re: 'KUBARR

Stated

CRai

willsay- KUBARK backing AMIRON (Ray oN

MRR) w/ funds & equipment AMIRONI

Leftist. " Comminst dominated froup.

and "Fidelistas sin Bidel"

KUBARK.

gives AMIRON: talf million per month

cores operating costs.

Pereal number plans.

C22207

---

## Page 14

Diaz Lauz.

gRET

voe II

varona

AMDIP

furnished AMIRONI

by INUBARt and

location.

• Will reveal training sites Guat,..

personnel working / AMDIP | and

AMIRON plans for invasio Cuba.

- Expose AMDID, for buying off

KUBARK? personnel Wash.

- Claims discussed above s

5 Nov 62

invasion plans AMIRON from Guat. I/

Soumine,

Two men from KOBARK assured

Echegoyen Funds would be w/held

from suppor AMIRON: Capasle campu.

out threat

once close Diar Lanz, but now

distrusts hin:

could attempt discredit Echegoye

6. Dee 60 cable to Dir from GOLD 2

recommend candidates tor certain fieldo.

Laure- Enrique Laca

Indent - Fose Ignacio Paro

•Soldier - Manuel Artime

Professor- oscar de la lege

Cathol. actir: Ensigne Ros.

GOLD-sounding out opinion desirability.

of induding Diaz hour specifically

---

## Page 15

_ SECRET

= 6 Dec 60 Cabli tO IMGOLD Havana to

Dir.

Rodriguez Tamaya "El Mexicano" offering Gr.

info ne Diaz hanz group. Report would put

subjeets? in prison, claimo Tamaro

Claims female friend Diaz hanz working

Miamiairport also G-2 ajant

- suggest Diaz hanz be cautioned re our

donato loyalty his immed. friends.

= Dispotsh 2 Nor 60 to Chief WH div fr.

chief Os, Havana.

varona says of lane- "a yourg man,.

somewhat in perious, who is how

working with us..

- 288 NoV Go Cable to JHASH) from DIR

"'. Disappore para 3%7 ref. HAS does

not. desire additional cuban pilsts é does

not with fire Diar laur and company.

false impression by instituting toen

limited training program.

2. AMVANED advised HpS he passed

SOMET

---

## Page 16

SEChtI

U8. 85000 obtained from private sources tor

trepair B-25. Further State aircraft

repd I hans intends makesible

KUBARKE funds passed AMVANG-3

foor prop use how being diverted repair

airerats.

3. WaS policy re no ODYOKE sponsored

overflight from BPPRIME SHrU Stands.

MASH requested take immed. steps.

to stop flight. If cannot accomplith

this by persuasion notty local auth

poss.

such a flt to enable them

impound aircraft. Essential avoid.

poss. such ides. air ops jespardize

our air ops including us ope

Locha

4. Reatize Lanz may be polit. asset.

It so can best be used that purpose

w/in AM RASP.

WH. comment: Twicker states Lanz

requests tunds to repair personally

onned 3.25.a

cost. of Us $5,000,

Also Wants US 82,240 to give hink

training to 9 pilots to 3 mos.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECHEI

- Cable 24 NOV 60 to Dir FLUMASH!

1- Draz laws pined AMRASP bringing

pilots: Abel Hera Corton, Frank

Riorini; Francisco Lano, Evangeliste

Mursuli; Ramon P. Fuentes, Nesto

2 shortly after joining AMRASP, Dizz

suggested to AMHAWK est. of

spee. mission group compartin

above personnel, all of whom,

according to Diaz are qualified

as AlC mechanies. The gron

would drop AMRASP leafrets

small touns & cooperatives & cond

Hy cargo mistits when regrired.

3 To prepare themselves for standby,

radiness Diaz has requested

AMHAWK ($ AMHAWK has gueried

TWIChes) for fundo to: (A) rehab

the personally onned B-25 A/C07

Diaz at lost of approx. DLS 00D

(B) Provide pilote N/ Linke

trainer time 18 pilots at 10hs

monthly, at cost of Ils 8 per

hous)..

and (c) lounde purchase

---

## Page 18

SECHET

af Hoas egripped Cessna 180 $/or 210

Dor infil /exfil aps.

1. Diaz is proceeding w/ B-28 rehab

nia loan 12,500 from Mignel Angel

queredo, for which, ackording

AMCHIRP-1, he win air drop

Bohemia over Caba.:

s. While realize present policy.

precludes Us-based flights, desire at

minimum maintain flight

proficiency This integrated pons whose

euspent i future activities could be

montored s directed by the newly-

established joint Cubant Ames ops

section of the mil. cominision.

Beyond being a pilst, Dier Lanz excces

a certain mystigue which The press har

been quich to recos. Thas he is.

a current propaganda f polit. asset

as wele as a potential milit. asset

6. AMHAWk commented somewhat

nice prin a dare ore

econ. probs. However TWICKER belicie

Diaz highly mistinted i recofuizes..

---

## Page 19

SEGRET

AMRASP as mainstream anti-Castro ors.

Temp. solution has been to assign Diaz

group to transport commission, which how

functime Under

MIL CommisSion,

but funds are not currently budgeted.

for link traines time.

7. Magnest Has approve imital link

trainer refresher of D4S 960, 15 hrs.

each pilot; then monthly cost of D'S 640.

Not likely training to extend beyond 3 mos.

P. Fell political advantages Keeping Diaz

satisfied and cooperative well worth

above relativel

y minor expenditure.

- Document transfer 1 cross-ret: 27 Sep -60

Diaz hanz made offer ofassist by susi

of 201-829376

=

120ct 60 cable to Dir

fr. London

Re: developments in FI

- Dr. Sancher trangs her left FRD following

a disagreement wy other leaders. He is noi

joining... forces w groups led by Diaz Laur,

Conte Aquera. & others.

- varona appto coord. of FRD - in Spite opp.

Fusto Carillo.

Revelopinents re: fighting in GaSs-

SECRET

---

## Page 20

-SECRET

remo for record re: Rept recting a/segio

Syi Bernard E i Reichhandt

in t204-27-82-07

Spoke to Rojas before planned to departure

to Miami to see ricardo Lorie, in an

effort to give other side Than Anti-FiD

Rojas relatively objective but on balance

favored New of yourg revolutionaries life

Mianza de Liberacion.

Analyzed Situatin

7 Men accurateh, AMBIDD*-1

secame rep m. FRD for MiRR, ther

reptisanted on oin vieus to exclusin of.

Men interests hamented That number of

young men de: Chisea, Diaz Lanz,

Nino Diaz's Mission i unasane

not seing putto use. Bag as result of

offerences set. young revol. I FRI

"Los tiejosa Politicos in FRD 1o0 Ta te

right: Asked if us. might lend

support to more Them the group. ha

told Us not supporting any group.

Asked it military types?.

perhaps

could se firen support

Ropas

cool. not poss. This time - Too anti-

FRD sentiment. Fell poLiticos of FRD

seff-reeking. Young root suffering bitterness,

MACT

---

## Page 21

SEGRET-

disillisionment

Risuggested potiat meeting with FRD - membes

but not s principals- lounter-saggers made

Rojas suggest friends, es. Coute Aguero, horie

to approach FRD again

- Memo 19 sept 60 for: C/WH/4/c1 tro Gerard

Re: Request for Pal checke

Drotar.

(NOTE: Ans. to check on Moya in Panegues file)

Mianta people reptd in toun - Diaz lanz,

Come Aguero, Panegue (Drego), Mugini "Tino"

Diar. - could be reached at address of tus.

Anna Moja:

Indicates. Ravd into that

pree may be lastro plent types

Buro check on horse and furs.

loga, as

wel as furnish into on Parefue and la

activittes in US..

Panefues NY address: San Dafael HAl,

65 w. 45mSt, Rm lE Tel. JAZ-4800

Memo for: C/WH /4/PA

/ SEPT 60

tr: NH/4/E0 - John F Mallard!

Re: Cubano desirous of meeting a/ State Dept

Reps.

sonor Chinea,.

Pane que, Diaz Lan z,

conte Aguero desire meeting. Indicates St. Dept.

personnel have no desire to see Cusars. Author

indicates desire sive casans cold should

•SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

- Cable

no encourajement- cannot operate independen

w any type of us suppot a am vance.

6 SEP 600 t0 Dir from MASH - MexiCit

Indicates "Caris" is militan stalt -

relations AMEER salane AMCIGARI

times of auth. I reap. MASH committees

badly snarled view recent insistence

"AMEER his perojative as AMCIGAR

member

General ill feling + distrust senior AtRASPERS

toward AMEER also applies "his boys"

In military field these include oscar Diar

(ground).

Orlando Gancia (recruitiry),

and Felipe Lidal Santtago (naval.

Most immed. isue - Pedoo Diar Lanz who

walked in recruiting te lot nk august t

Wolunteera to join AMAS? pilot group as an

individual.

Milit afreed Dras hans fine

pilot, joining surtso: political plum"

since he founding member competing "Hiara"

Nobregas and lillatana only.

lukewarm.

At puncture AMEEL Sepped in, order la MILON.

alept Diaz Lanz, succeeded puttily all

senior mil. staf member in oppos

latue still unresolved.

militates

SECHET

---

## Page 23

SEGNET

AHRASPERS afree meeti absolute necessity to

rualidate Their positiono nità nI ANCIGAri 0ãO

body i particlant their positiono in respect

midividual ANCIGAR MeMBers (AMEER"

AMMAWE.

- Cable: Ang 24, 60 to Dir from Havana.

Le: Armando Lora Herander - Miro man.

He was close to Raul Chibasi; maintaino contect

will Draz Lanz. orf. resistance in Cusa. Reges

asiliance

Cable

Ay 1 60 to Dir from Harana.

Disseusin in AMYUM-I group more

extensive the finducial trousler Lonie/AMPDA

split caused senos internal reperclissione

in temo

AMYUH-1, group receiving via

their channels from MASH that ODVOKE]

now supporting Lorie, Nino Diaz, Diar Laur

- PRD form-Controt de Personal - Pedroluis

Diaz Lanz

- Nemo for Chief WHD Re Mex. Roarke (Bre) Fr

6. El 60

fr. ID Esterine

In interniew of Porke w/ rep. of 00/e in NYC

Rorke said Diar laus most desering of U.S.

support. knows Diaz Lant; planaiy to

SEGRET

---

## Page 24

SECRET

appear on T.V. program NYC. 57ahp

Sáid somora have afreed to fire thar lave

mil. base in Nicara. Will call it Committer

to RescueL. Ame from commenion or

similar. Porte Claims Spraille

Brade tentatively agreed to support

eminatter

- Cable 28 June 1960 to MASH fr. Dir.

Pedro Diaz Laur not connected ERD in ou

Karley wille brief. WH Comment: concened

surtacing in Costa ra of orf. headed Sy PDL

-

office remo

- 24 Je 60 to Chief WH/FI DirTin

ATTN. Bob Reynolds From: Chief contact

Divisim,

100 (L/A Branch)!

Re: Pedro Diaz Lanz.

From FoM. Ashcast - signed By Hange

In interniew, requested by lant to ack tohat

people Think 8 should do. expresed desire to

work to merchan ente a Mexi

Resertations. bout trustworthiness of Artime

Message to the People of Cuba i Brothers of

America of the Cusan CostsTaTinal

Crusade. Signed b/16/60 5

PDL,

SEONGT

---

## Page 25

SECRET

Andr Abel Hera Corone; Capt Rabel J.M.

Gonzalez.

- Cable i8 tune 60 to Dir fri MAsHi

18 June Diaro Las Amenta canies

ad surpasiy group called Cruzada

Catara Constitucionae spied S2D4

conson, Gonzalez.

table indicates concern for need of controlled

→ coordinated propaganda effort:

Avoid premature releases

- Dispatch 12-Fam60

Chief WH Dir, from Miami NHD Rep.

Re: Contact w/ QD Bias 10 JAN 60

by Patrick 1. Kannley

Indicates biller fend betw.

QOBIAS SODCOVE

ALsO QOCOVE assaulted DICHAR:

Drscussed ODCHARS recent trip to Guat. QDBIAS.

quare but personally opposed tenths sine

pocHAR took alony Sirgo Bruell and

Finini, INS took Fiorinis passport wher

he re-entered the US. Apparently

they are"prepared to throw the birt at

Fiorini"" Fionini in real danger of losing.

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECRET

his eitizenship

Cores Ins also tauy actio af. Masterers)

Indirals @PCHAR has ideas of lus thn,

and 9DB11S does at try to stand in

his way.

- 7 Fue 60 10 Dir fri MASH. Cable

PDL. abont to initiate fund-raising

campain for group.

Suggests raise a/ IDI GORAS

shous probe arising out of premature

support.

anti Castro novenet generally,

PDL Speeifically

WH Comment. Ref indicates Dazlate

preparing launch offensive against Castro

from Guatemala.

13 May 60 table to Dir trim: A1Ast flavana.

repts - PDL plans to land wen prepared

fore 10-150 ciscens. ASAP-poss- end of ra,

- 13 May 60 cable to Bir: fre Havana

Rept MRR broke contact WMAR

SEGRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

undergoing guerilla warfare traintry

Miami area sinder command Diaz Laiz

- Cable May R 60.

to dir fr: Miami

Action: WHS (Mr. Philips, WH DiV

2.

noRfied 2035, "Man, 60)

Tummary activites PDL indicating detien

imminert.

opreering discussion betw. Alliepro,

Piedro, Paget re: Support for tax -

Us 50, 000 mentined as goal. Not

Known whether fundo handed over to

PDLthO: Repto funds obtained

Rept - force-perhaps 100 men, forgned Sy

PDL

Ender superisio Fiorini- PD 11 pose

Mortin

much equipment issued to men berre

finen field training outskins tiont

torini- ton raccinated. Have 2

boats, 2 aircraft at their diposal

Believad DL. contemplating more

direeth, from FLA to Caber. Gaet

mentitned - stragens base tor expedita

Contacta EB!,

_Border Patro re: developmas,

They will contact trinit PDL lude

SEARFT

---

## Page 28

SECMET

circumatanice do not intende to contact For

myserp.

sufgests close attention soth psychd. $

polit. implications 07 such expedit. moveras.

brIDe. Question waited whether some

action should be taken to "susmarine"

D. Ls plans. - a promise Welle staDi

Morphe discredited both in Cusa 4,

i more resp. exile elements $ has consist,

provided "ettective peg. from Castro fort

propaganda" 1, effect more baDl at

This Zime might have on TMARC

planning f timining, Also, Implications

of pors.

accomodatin w/ ouat. Govt

POL need caretal consideration.

"In light of poss hartue results of

PDL venture, may with consider proposing

coordinated actio br

U.S. Sort to

frustrate this before it gets off the

fround.".

Neur article Miami Herald 10Tpnl 1160

"Is castroi Time lun OuT.

Memo for Dc1 nia DoP

30 rax 60

Re: C/A involvement in case of harder.

Diaz Lanz, former Depty Bireetor of.

SECHET

---

## Page 29

Scullti

Cuban Revol. Air Force and Applicant for U.S.

permanent resident niza.

Tune 33

PDL

resigned - as Chief of Cub. New. AT, fled to

1s.• Mans went into hiding..

tavarisked for help

o 0f. Exfiltrated him ma shipping line

•Arr. Tampa, Fla 27 July 59 :

Depriefed

in Tampa 1 Miami Presented himself ar

INS ofe., Miami, regreatng asylum which

was granted.

life 3 Chiden Left Cuba Any S9 for

rexico, then joined MDe a 248p7

09. 40.

MOL Left IS via New Orleans for NexCit

to obtain or resident noa to

perit him to go nito business in

order to can living. INs wouldnt

allow him to return.

heapt: Bioticato rebuttae Hect comment

trombentithat c/A said MDI in tendo to.

untinue warlike Tactisithe Is abloto

reten 70 the US:

- Cable 26 harch 60 to: Dir frantiami-

See PDL as forlony bewildered, outcast.

HAVA 3740

Excommunicated by. ODCOVE ton involing

self w/ Batistians. heat sign Cajigas/

Pedrara. 'nity" pledges but was clearey

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

in middle that cireus, finally kissed off

by Pedraza as little boy playing mans

game. ODCOrE feeling son tor old friend

Has don WoL he could still se of use to

Them it willi tale andes, arid pusticit.

Believe PDL constitutionally incapase of

later.

• Believe inclusio

of PDL, und

be somewhat menace

Memo for the record I Feb 60

Re: telephone report from triami on Activities of

Framenco Caji gas

Indicates PDL conferting / Cajies, who is planning.

meeting in Managia w./ Forgetto Somora

Dispatch to chiePW4 Div fr: Miami WHD Rep..

11 Fes 60. Re: Summary of current.

QDB/AS activities.

writer by

Patrick

Karnley..

reeling 18 Tan 60 - ODBIAZ ViSited Nraraya

Emb w/ sanguer-Sterling in wash re:

assistance of Nicaragua for militany.

expedition against Castro

Haung difficult a/ INJ re passport Distressed

by attitude of ODENVy who reminded

wim they could arrect him at any time

SECHET

---

## Page 31

SECRET

Author talked to ODENY re: This matter

IsBIAS and rejesting scheme to meet

Somoza as arranged sy Luis Arenas.

BSCussiON N/ GOBIAS re: Cruzada Constituciaol

Cubana (CL), @BiAS, one-man crusade.

Not intended to be organization

Ekarly anaractizing tol as very naire, s

babe in the woods" in there mattes Dubles

total loss" i but "by no mesas a

Dispatch

2 FeD 60

TO WHD rep Mriam, Havana, Canas.

tr- Chief WDID signed - Oliver G. Galband

Re: Meefing of F. Castro N/ Gustavo Machado

in caracas as riptd by. PDL.

requests internew of PDL by tarnle

"'in most minute detail"

us knowledge of contacts. trachado

and castro as repte in Parade

Lash Post Stan. 60.

---

## Page 32

SECRET

Dispatch 18 Faw lo

70): Chief WH DiV

: FROM: Miami WHD Rep:

Re: rept of Contact / Q0B1AS| 18Jan60

Author - Patrick Karnley

Into Me meltings bet Nunez Portiondo

and PAL r: Whether or not Porthondo

{9DBAs W/out politizal conmitment

to Numez Portiondo for Future

DOL discussions re: est. non-profit 8og

to raise funds for actinities.

Note: celorio, who who would be involued,

told AMBOAR about scheme, but used

name kleburg, suggesting comsine de

KLEBURG -LYKES- STANDARD OIL WAS

some how gettry read in to thit foonp.?

Dispatch 12 Jam 60

To Chief. WH DiV

Er Mans WHRop - signed kannle

Re: contact. w/ (QDBIAS 10 Jan 60

smory item:

- PDL consideing forming military unit to

infiltrate cusa for action of coit

- Dispute betw PDL, @D COVE, 9D CHAR gria

---

## Page 33

SCARET

bad.

PoL had protected O CHARD releat tripso

Guatemala / Sepio Bruce and

Forini: Forini-questio whether he will

be admitted back to U.S. ODENVY

ready to throw the book at him.

SECICT

---

## Page 34

VOL ITT

"Political ActioN File

(Jan 1961-

SECRET

- Memo tor Ofe Legis Counsel : 11 NOV 77

Tr: Raymond A. Warren, Chief LA. Dil

Re: Allegation by Senior Cuban diplomat

concening role of lusan exiles in the

assass. Of Pres. Kennedy:

- no turther info to supplement this info.

May hauc been refering to either

reaceo or Marcos-

Nores assoe. w/ sturgis; aricle of

20 Sept. 71 rei horenz allegations...

- Lemo for Of Le 3 NOVn

From Chiet LA DiN

Re: same as abore.

Repos - fairly reliable soure said senior

SHET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

Cuban diplonat stationed abroad, made

charges in Late Sep 77 t0 his colleaghes..

that Casaw exills such at former Gus. An

Force officer Diaz Law (furs) = Othed

had bees involved in assass.

Divition belieres bast for statement presumal,

article a 20 Sep 77 in NY. -horenz

alejations

DO Document extract - 63 8 NoUT

Fine 63 Marcos DL inited Frank Fiorini

to join raid against cuba 15 Jun using

moppy ounca

ay him d susie othes on

raid carlos ot

Garcia, Salvador Garcia

0/kx 07 UR.

IS form Dept at Justice - 9/8/1

POB_ 1/8/26 Alien Teg#, A 10.176 - 250

SS# 261-54-2581, Havana Cuba

SPOUSE: carnet Izaguirre, Tania: DOM -2289

- Dọc transtes -x. ref. -

17 TAN 69

Former head cuban reool. AF intrested

making trip cuba to sink Russian stip

DoC. Xfer - X ref

- 26 Jan 64

Reptly working w/ Felipe Hidal Santiago

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

on projected raid on cuse which was to

onginate tron Miami area

Memo to Dir. FBI ATTN S.J. Papich: MJAN64

FR: DD P.

Re: Accusationo mady by PDL.

- Rep from this ayency reud info " NoV 63

from untested source concerning meeting

ot FORDC in NYC on 3 NoV. 63 duing

which DDIs made following imprompt

remarks:

- claimed state Dept asked him to

woot w/ them on condition he male

no pus. statements accusing

Castro of being communist.

Offered post lhief ehief of AFan Guat

Frank Penda,?

but refiad...

reginalty

Bendies than offered mayorship.

01 Marianao.

- Accused kerredy of being Granunst

сотнить

Paid bars had fight alone te

admir would not help. feid.

If the Of gon were to five one rifle

to the exiles, the exiles would be

wise to make sure it did not fire

back thre the stock instead of ther

The

barrel

CECRET

---

## Page 37

SECRET

Orginal disparew of above-

WHa crypts .

to chief-spec. Affars Staff

fri cos JMNANE

has handwritten note - For The record

"Bender never neet cans, who was

handled by the PH. section of the

projeet at That time -

10/1/64

signed

"Drover? WH DiV

same marke

- DOC XF X-Ref - 31 Ful 63

PoL nvolved in abortive attemph in air

strike $ baflet raid on Hasana, Cusa

squelched by ODENY.

DoC XPEr# XIt 12 June 68

6 June: 9,63 Marcos DL. invited Rovini to

join raid af. Cusa to take place weekend 15

tune, biry moppy owned an

Pedro.

Marcos.... Others goin: Carlos Garcia,

salvador Garcia Oler-, a ER official

- Trace Regres 18 Apr. 63 FirPDe

A "Subject is dropped w long. prejudice:

SIGNET

---

## Page 38

SEGRET

-

Doc X fer $ X Reh

_25 her 63

Draz ons 2 P.T. boats in diami ara-

Re: restre by subp. of 35 tt speed

boat to anti-castro gop.

-

Do X/i & X Fef - 23 Fes 62

Subjeet: Movimento Recuperacion Revolucionaro

de "Cuja.'.

MRRC.

Diaz kanz Came to diami offre w/ 2

companions, Reinaldo: Cruz y Blana -

"SIMON" - MAn of AIRC

Recently

acquired 4 boat tern Hampto 2

Roads Salvage co of Tallahassee.

Other companion not id'd.

_ -

Calle

.11 Feb 61

.....

to : BEn

note

Efom: WAVE

Re: into that It Col "Oscar Diaz,

Chief

Pers of MILCOM conspired to slow up

recruiting - discredit recruiting tean

round Diaz manipulating recordo f

was sabotaying behind MILcon and

PBPRIMERS back:

WAvE comment

ridence turned up confirmed intrigue b.

SECRET

---

## Page 39

SEGRET

Doc Xter 5 tref 05 0cT 62

Re: Anti- Castro Activities.

Info:

PiL spoke at meeting held at Bayfront Park

9/29/62 - told cubans idea of recruiting

ensens "creamed up" by U.s. to keeptroling

the luisans. Claimed lisans had sen

tricked because they do not undistand

what was going on

- Trace request

_30 Apr. 62

After discussion betar a rep. of this Agency &

The Dept Of trmy ow 28 May 62, The

Dept of Army has agreed, in ciew of

into contained ru our Agenes files, to.

interest in Sabi:

Biography PDL.

Revol. activities begun in 52 whew he started

running Miles into Cuba for Prio.. S3 exiled in

Miami until 55, and Started fennyin anod

castro...

58 appta drief of 26 Fuly AF)

held until defection Je 59 heater drop.

Oct 59.

Not know to beloy inany polit. parray..

formed a morement-Ccc but was unsucies

Ful in obtaining support; considered by FRI

SEERET

---

## Page 40

SECKET

§ Other moderately liberal groups as including

some ex-Batista army officers.

Repid in April.

1960 Diaz.

had commited cogself do group.

headed sy Marquer starling. However,

subelguently CCC Merged N/ Ariazza de

Liberacion - amalgamation of several younger

gromps as Cuban exiles. Although considered

somewhat of an "hothead", does hawe considerable

stature as former Chief of AF and recently

he & some of hit followers accepted into ERD

Currently - trember FRO

Endorsed by - Mr Braden, Mr Colligan of Freeport

Salpher.

- Memo for: WH/4/ Finance.

5 Jan. 62

Re: overdue Accts.

Pedro Draz Lanz - 8400 passed on 19Fan 61 a0

ex pense money for a prop tour taken of

heis CoNtE Aguero i Others... Plan Called for

use of Diaz Lanz's plane piloled by him flan

changed tound too difficult to set necessary

permits for plane...

Finall, conte went

alone when PDL, balked at being contes

shadow.

reantime, Diaz hanz dabbling in

polities, appeared sefore senate commi

•He"

and succeeded in making himself useless do a

SECHET

---

## Page 41

SECHET

con

-

49633

coffe

topm

Aliers

647

- 7950

_propaganda asset.

signed-Stannard Short.

Cable to JMWAVE. from Dir

6 July 61.

request IMWAvE reniew reguirements for use

Pedro Diaz Lanz in boat ops, Feeling here

he indiscrede and would compromise

missio

Don not initrared

Aldo vera

note - iden w/Mir A180 Seralin vera

former undeground leader afainst Batista-

Held following positions w/ casto gort.

- Head of Dept of Invest: of Cubaw Ter. Police

- Can Army 5-3

- Chief at GS of Cubaw Army

- 29 Apr 60 repto as one of officers in

charge of caching armo in various.

intervened houses in Havana.

- 2 Jun 60 repla replaced do DRop.

General of cusan Peroeh. Army,

not named to another post.

- 21 sep 60 reptly trying to est. contact

w/ oppos. frps, but in reality a

govs agent

Dispatch - To Chief: WHD FR - Chief of Bal,

IMWAVE

Re: "IN of April " Movement

Organization to be presided over by

SEGRET

---

## Page 42

SECHET

"military junta" - not one leader ond. wy

both members of debel army and Batista

Army

Diaz hawe does not hold a steady posina

because he consides himself a "leader"

rather than a "soldier"

Believe info on secret meetly of frong.

leared 10 luban govs sy Aldo vera.

- Intel. Rept 14 Ful 61 Re: Cuban counter.

revole. Base

Rept - 250 free Cuban troops & 7 aireraft.

based on ssla de Mujeres Off shore of

Quitana Roo Province, Mexico. Plan

militan expedit - included:

PDL.

Felpe vidal

Tentente ENU) Chinea

Dspatch.

31 May61 TO Chief WHiD Fron

Chiet of Base UMWAVE.

re:

Freurzas Aereas de Liberacion (FAD)

All piloss & members of Air Force

who were in

camps had a meeting during which AMCLATHER.

5, spoke i said they

had to hold an

election to appoint chief of AF & laterto

present it to AMBUD-I.

Arguments ensued. Capt Perer did

SEERFT

---

## Page 43

SECRET

not agree w/ this type election Lett

meeting o gop of ma

rikafand, tener aloo spoke Pese than

half persons left.

AMCLATTER- 5} elected as Crief

I Fist election had siven votes to Diaz

Lan, AmciATTER-5 and Others. PDL

reptdly tried to take over Caused

feorstance..

Spelt thiy shouldn't have

allowed Pot pilots to lote in 18t

place =

Called for Und election. Held

May 24J

FAL member loyal to AMBOD 1

= Cable 23 May 61 to BRU from: IMTIDE!

info- author met numerous trans in

Miami- apparently pilott. Expressed

interest in perming w anther to sta TIDEl

a, Garcia,

-, Alberto.

to stay proficient in flying" PDL

apparently creating disturbance, "by tryiy to

take over.".

Good stable group of men.

"The hard core mill remain tojether as the

same unit and will be and are ready if

needed.".

SECRET

---

## Page 44

SebNEI

Dispatch 18 May 61 to Chief WHD from drierof

Base IMWAVE

Meeting of labans in Bay front Park, Liams

Anthor - Stanley R. Zamka

- ray 61-.

Peeing in Bayhont Park

organiced bo

PDL It al.

involved is/"Ciblin affaire

to attack North Americant, Manue

Artime

Cable

1 May 6/

TO Bell! from IMWAVE.

7 individuals of Braz hant gre being paid

total of 81500 mo. by AMIRON

Gip not active & some have not picked.

up April paychieks.

Request authorty drop group. from

AMIRON rela effectre I May 61

at discretin WAVE

- Memo for AMDIP/A.

28 April 61

Re

conversation w/ Mr Foseph

Newman, Ny Herald Tripune

RepFd 27 April 61.

Author: Howard Hurt

Discussed THATE MalES -

SEGRET

---

## Page 45

SEGRET

" To separate tact from freton on an off the rece

Discussed several areas:

Ricardo Lorie - PDL-

These, men alleged UA had fiver

'to worls boat

ops, but each sme GA-Chose

course was followed their boat

was interfered with by Castro

gunboats.

Hunt explained reasons for CIA

procedures eliminate duplicate.

# compromise of effort; avoid

hostile monitoring. of communicating

" Coast Guard interference i provide

resoue en emergencies.

Artime.

horie f Draz denounced Artime as

Castro peneratin ajent. - Bolstered

by newmans recollectio That

Juan OrTs was believed to have

said castro once claimed an

afent high in counter-revol.

irello

Hunt.explained lovie.costont.in

MAR power strygle; PDL

felt personal resentment, politial

vindictiveness. Antimes father was.

a communit, breysepted

mimes more

SECRET

---

## Page 46

SECRET-

formative year spent w/ seonity.

Aureliance Sancher Arango.

re: attacks of enc b

sanchez and

Tore Figuen

Atino Diaz

re: story that CIA had 401 kept I1S.

agreements a/ Diaz, making it

imposs. for biaz to land lus

force in Cuba.

Hunt. "s explained what Hally

happened.

Eloy Gutierrez Menago-

Gutierter

re: allegations that renego a fre were

detainedat MeAlien, TX to appeare

Barista 4 Trevilla partisans

Hunt explained nove to Tx decided

On by iNs be insure satety

of Outerer; asters gips conflicing.

tallo. Gip arrived too late for

inclusion in miltan propan.

Revol. Council complaints

re: gen. theme tat O.5. had wot

lived up to its commitments to

provide air cover for landings

despite. pre-invasion promise by Prea

Kented, to provide this untiell

Hunt explained IC looking tor

scapegoat.. Said Pres. had made

SESHET

---

## Page 47

SEGRET

no such positive commitment to Re before the

invasion... Pres. dispatched MSSIS Bere

Schlesinger to Mo in NY prior to invasia

to say Pres. lad said guite the contrary.

Said. pesonal internieue betw. Pres, RC had

taken place on 19$20 April, in fact.

As to lack lack of protective air cover, HH

cited failure of RCS B-26s to eliminate

Castro air forces during 15 Apr. Strike. HH.

"mute" ao to fault for lack of second

mop-up strike.

Said Sads in Guate-

mala.

becoming untenable - open fa

oppos: congress. inspection

by 18 Bpr. -

newman - declared - realization That it

wasnt sabotage by communist afents -

"We sabotaged crisselvea!"-

Reumar expressed interest in HIt

identity. Conceded hes had hever

heard

"Eduardo!.

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SEGRET

os!

Dispatch patch March March - 18 Chiet WH Dir from

Chief of base- Havana

Re: Anti-FRD activibls of Carlos PRIO

so carras=

Prio held meeting 7 Man 61 at Energlades.

Hotel ; liami,

Pa. Made anti-PRD

statements to press.

Men who had been planning action i

PDL, Jett him, joined Prio, since PDL

lacked resources.

Dispatch 3 Mar 61 to Chief of Base, IMWAVE,

tr. Chief; WHD

Mancos D.L: anticipating anest for anti-com.

actintilo, made advance preparationo to

have one of his napon contact ODIBEX

ofe: Lt. Douglas Attitse Leth bridge Agrilera,

FAR ofer, of one of These reps..

marcos stated that Lethbridge trying to

get names of Russian NKVD ayout in lisa

s, when he has penetrated com. ors. inCuba

he will disclose their plans to terme."

Doe Xfer § cross- ref.

28 Fue. 63.

invowed in

poss. aircraft Somb and

leaflet raia on Habana Cuba to tale

place on 28 faly 63.

SECHET

---

## Page 49

SECRET

-

---

Memo of meeting held at home of

Juan Carlos /Nemesto Rodrigner]

2-26-61

PDL, Juan Caros, Com. Gonzales met,

decided Diaz Lane start out fo

Cusa. Believe PDL. good name uTH

help get Amer. assisfance

PiL expresed bitkness toward

ERD and Artime.

Cable - 17 Feb 61

tO BEL Fr WAVE

Neither PDL nor AMNORM -I recollect

keoning Enrigue Molina Rivera AKA.

Arturo Morales Y Rodriguez

Cable 10 FeD 61

TO IMWAVE fr. BEAL!

DL passed 5460 advance by Has during

trip RHETAL. WAVE should obtain

accounting.

cable.

3 FeD 61

T0: IMWAVE

FR: BELL

AMCORE 2 SADBIAS Metunity Miami.

As result inability obtain risas.

SECRET

---

## Page 50

-

SECRET

w/ permission for plane, tour to be made wore

Or both ria commerciae tights. Fion plans

coringent allaged AMDIP-loffer to QDBLS

make him replacement for LITAINT-lin

[AMIRON ORG. TAMCORE 2 reportS

tentatively opered post as pume ministe

by AHDIPT, bat would

make tour regardless

Subis will cal choaden to contaet

instructions WAVE Co When assistance

needed

Routing i Record sheet - I Feb 61.

Noto: Re: PDL

Dias Laus would cause increased

morale problems at MADD.

Bssibly could use uni lateally i

" No interest to PMORS!

Memo IFes 6.I for WH(4./PM./AM

Re: PDL:

Met w/ Michael M. Maney

(wH/4(Prop)

to ask it he could be pilot in FRD Air

Fore.

Author recommends PIL would aid

greatly in creaty esprit de corps

and discipline

SECRET

---

## Page 51

SEGRET

Dispaten 20 sam 61

To Chief WHD from Chief of Base TWINE

Re: Frank Fiorini - comments se: alleged

plans of

KUBARK

On 4 Jan 61 ter. Joseph A, Fortier,

Superting- Customa Agent in Miami, sent

attachment A to local chief of KUMA

who in turn sent it to IMWAVE

Inas much as the content of Mach

A appears to implicate PDL in an

unfavorable mannes, CABANAC

investfated the case susmited a

memo dated THan 61, AHtach 3

Dief of base apress a conclusio

in Para 701 Attach B

- Altachment A.

boriter and

interniewed Sturgis on Dec 30, 1960 at

his residence.

2080 SW 60T Court

Miami, Fla

Han MCDonald, Close assoc of

Stungs, also present Ziorini said BUS.

seized by Customs, used for baflet drop.

on Havana, =

steturned to him atter

payment of charges - 82,800.00. rosen

---

## Page 52

SECRET

he had turned over the airplane for use en

PDL. PoL was at aircratt almost every day-

preparing plan for good will tour of

central Ames. countrils, to se sanctioned

Ly KU BARK

writer told Fiorin he was prob. being

duped- trang open talk that US. Suppoting

group-always wout foundation.

arguestions tonini said he spoke to KUBARkafent

buy? The name of "Barker".

: 0f 4420 NN.

Soth st

Office contacted PDL fr cooperatia.

PoL was adised Fiorini was intenieved

earlier That day- PDL expressed.

concern that Fiorini might set involved

in way that would impair plans of

anti tao to froups.

office maning report secause "dose talk"

on torni might nave adverse effects.

FIl had earlier interciewed Forin,

presumably re: Timilar 41008e talk"

- Altachment B- 9 fan 61.

- Alleged 12,800 payment i presumed to be

part of money. firen to PDL by saralegui.

as personal loan

SECRET

---

## Page 53

2. PDL, preparing his aireratt for the reielo de

verdad

and instructiona givers by him to.

aireratt technicians induding 708s. use of

nat! flage on hose of aircraps would

confirm Diaz intendes to visit # of

countrilo.

Bartes says he met Fiorini on bly se

oceaition i a froup of people i has

ever. seis him seme or Since

Alejed address of Burke proridel

By Franti not correct..

3) :

Fiorini has lost confidence of PDL $

has been treating wi such people as

Rasco in an attempt to involve

himselt in anti-castro actinty.

Note PDL expressed concern Fiorini

"Night get involved..

I PDe alleges he $ his people

_hounded

by federal ayents whote..

miterest in

peans. has been piqued. by plane

overhauling actinies" that There

federal officials asked leading $

provocative guestions.

6. entire

Exec. Comte of ERD, as well as

AHIF

---

## Page 54

SECRET

propaganda commission, hilly acguainted

/ prepatony plans for flight and it is, there.

fore,

not shange plans have become knows

outside

That immed. gap

1. However, a reriew of Customs rep7, together

w/ above, would indicate; that "the

essential element of plausible denial

still remains!:

Cable 10 Fan 61

To Bell from WAVE

Followily: Chron. applices to prepatory actions

PDL trip.

sieet flight tip party i obtain usag

landing permits; establish Hight rontig,

Lift gone afency restrictimo on PDL and

aircraft. FRD send letter of

instruction to FED delegations in

, host

countries outlining advance prepara

tons necessar-f Special equiput

for plane -

PDL suggest tape

recordings be made at local stops for

mailing back and use a swan

Expect concrete team dunny we of

9 Jan.

paL will handcary

passports and flighto documentato

washington, obtain was $ landin

permits I sumit results to

SECHET

---

## Page 55

Choaden Who to finalize flight roule.

Have toed QDBAJ aim a 15 faw takeoff?

tho realize This prob. optimittic.

SE

•CHET

---

