# 180-10142-10318

## Page 1

180-10142-10318

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

180124

Personnel File

Folder 3

¿CRET

summary

Leslie Wirelman

submitted 3-7-78

Artime, Bueza manuel.

the file contains one document which is a memo

of gral commitment to the chief of the Special Affairs Staff

ula contract approving officer from Chref ut miami stateur

Signed by Frederick J. Inghurst - (freid contracting offuer)

Artime was hirec under an oral contract. fur use under

on "actrun indicator". Eltective date: Febl, 1963, to cunterive

indefinitely: $400/ murth to be charged to station overned

SECRET.

11110123

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do No: Reproduco

180-10142-10318

---

## Page 2

SECRET, summarY

snomilted

3/10778

Hunt, Everette Howard Jr.

4 July 1965-19 June 1972

IG

July 4, 1965 - letter of contract to Terences. Crabania.

Employs Hunt as a contract Employee.

Pay $19,880 /уг.

2 yr. contract.

trum Jusephlagan

a - memo tur

OGC fare Norman Block re Hunt-Retention

of Royaltres by a Cuntract Employee. Dated Aug 3,1965.

Hunt will develap cover as a writer.

August 1a, 1965 respunse from Block - Hunt should be entitled

to keep royalties. They have been adursed that Hunt's

cover does not include the role of a writer. His cover will be

3- 8 Nou 1965 memo for Deputy Directer of Suppurt, Subj: Request

Er exceptiun

to provision of FR 45-106 = Hunt

Hunt is described as a "contract employee assigned to the

madria area in spain. In a sensative assignment.

On 12 sept 65, karamessines appRuved 75/25 90 1993101575

excess allowable costs

4- memo fur mr.kuhn, subect General Gaynor's Recollections

from Edward Fisayle dated l Feb 1974.

Gaynor the became aware of Hunts spybooks and raised the issue

"up. front' on several occasions. Phe teaction he recerved " Keep

your stinking

nose

out of this blsimess." the was lead to

---

## Page 3

2= Hunt

SECRET

belleue that Helms destred to improve the image of the

intelligence profession and the Agency and that Hunt's books

were part of the program to doso, He stated that he was

never told outright that this was the case, but the responses

he recerved lead him to believe this was the case.

He suggested a people who might be able to assut in

dearing issue: Ray Roced and walter forzheimer, both of

whom were involveck in the "'mage" materials.

He stated that pforzheimer

seemed to be aware of all the

details-on an up to date. basis - of Hunt's departure

from the Agency to join the public relatioris firm, to the

degree that ben. Gaynur gained the bellef that Hunt was

merely moving his desk outside the building, but being

pala by the same source as defure.

miss Ethel mendoza also followed the case. Also

Anita Potocki - of CIA staff- (no friend of Hunt)

1111012

5 memo fur Steven 1. Kuhn frum Lawrence J. Howe, dated

6 Feb 1914. le materne Dauld st. John books. Interulewen

walter pforzhermer,

in an effort to determine if mr. Hunt had

acted in any capacity in cooperation with founter Intelligence

Operatiors. Recalled that after identifying Hunt as author of

Or Hazardow Duty, he called karamessines wnu reacted as if

"he had uncovered a sensitive malter of senior officer concern.

Helms called and tuld e that

"for christ sake walter, this is

the first book to come aling and say something good

about the agency." "why not leave file paddamn thing a lone

---

## Page 4

3

SECRET

No indication that books were ever submitted fur neurew.

Hunt

departed wash Bug 5, 1965

Arrived madrid Aug 16, 1965

draveled to wain Jan 5, 1965

returned to madrid 1-1966

a1 Feb 1974 memotor recura subi: watergate--Frani A. O'Mall

repurts interulew with Frank A d'malley who retired tromthe

Agency in June of 1972.. Was an officer in the External

Employment Assistance Branch, Retirement, Actrurtres Drussion

of the ofticlad ot Personnel. Function: tu assist persunnel

retiring from Agency in finding a post-retirement jub.

o'malley was instrumental in placong

Hunt in the Robert

R. Mullen P.P, Firm.

1111012

@'Malley had previously servec with the Centraltober staff

dealing@tundingofcovrtactlonprojects.famillar@the

achornes of Hunt while lunt funchoned on the

Covert Actrurtier Staff.

Heims was listed os a character reference on Hunts resume

o'malley recalled a request frum Hurt

for an indivichal

haung skills in the area of locks and surrept tous entry.

Thomac C. Amato was provided to mr. Itunt. -O'malley bellevec

Amato aid not acced employmant

SKCRET

---

## Page 5

4

SECRET

mem tur

Director. of FBI. from Charles wikane i subject El Hur.

aHn: Leon Fi Schwartz

Dated oct 29, 1974

re Revrem of record sources to ascertain Hunt's whereabouts

during persod 20 Nou 1963 through 24 NOw 1963.

Leave records reflect that for the y weel pay period

ending a3 nou 1903 Mr. Hunt took a tobal of ll hours sick

leave and no annual leave. In the following 4 week pay

period, he took 3 hours sick leave and 27 hours annual

leave. We are unable to identify the dates on which ithe

aboue sick and annual leave were taken. The time and

attendance records for the pay periods in question were

routinely destroyed three years after they were audited.

Travel records reflect that mr.tunt conducted no

official trauel during the month of Nou, 1963.

memo for record; suby's "sam Jaile Inquiry-Hunt and sturgu"

20 sept 1924- from SD. Breckin ridge

11110127

Hunt's trauel record shows utficial travel in September, .

Octuber and December, but none in Nouember.

s all this

travel was to new work. "John Richards states that we

already know, as a result of responses to previous requests, thatwe

have no records on sturgis that would show smilar information,

he was not an Agency employee."

SECRET

---

## Page 6

15 A.

memo fur Deputy Directer fur Administration

from Director of Securry

subj.:E.H.ltunt

Dare 23 oct 1924.

"Mr. Sturgis was not assoclated with the Agency

In any manner in Nouember 1963.

"The For Liaison officer I Mr. Leun F. Schwartz)

aduised that mr. Hunt was interulewed on 17 Oct 1924

and mr. Hunt aduised at that tinie that he had

learned of the assassination of firmer prescent

kennedy on his car radio while he was ma leave

status in the washington D.c. area.

memo re Eult-Hunt, 20 Dec 1973, Frum S.1. Breckinridge.

Fallof 1964-Hunt was alleged to haue been engaged in

surveillance

actures of Barry Goldwater.". Our files showed

Hunt was in the do Divisturl Burns was not familiar with

that title) and in august 1464 was assigned to the washington

held offie. I suggested that san drissanes, Deputy

12/15-138101e an Chief, Do dusion de num/deos Born; might bein

apositiun to grue a felo groups

on what. Hunt was

supposed to be doing then. se

Fig coleman was

on the Iberian desk when tunt assignment to laddersuas

brought up in 1964, & when Hunt went to the field in 1965.

---

## Page 7

(13 - 3)

-6=

19 June 197a

IG File 1a, tab a

SECRET.

Hunt served with the oss during wuss. Employed by cIA from

Nouember 1949 until his voluntary retirement on 30 April 1920

1471- Hund served as an aduljor to pres. Nixon in relation to his trip

to china, subject is of current interest to the central

Cover Staff.

served in us vauy- 1941-42

One ye @ Time, Inc.

entered Air Force -oss

Served in the Far East 1946.

may 1948- Feb 1949- employed by the economic

Cooperation Administration, serving in Paris, France,

as an alde to tuarell Harriman.

Dee 1950- Hunt was assigned as cos, mexico city.

chiefet mission/ Mexico City/ until August 1953.

Toy, Japan. June, 1954 until Feb, 1957.

Then CBs- Munteurdes, Uruguay - until early 1960

Returned to us in June 1960 d assigned to mexico

City on Booget Bay of Ags.

Nou 1961- sublect was reassigned to DDP/Covert Actionstaff

Jan 196a- to the office of the Chiet/

•,

July 1962- transferred to the DODS, Research &

Publication Section in D.C.

July 1964- DODS Couert Action Staffl110123

Feb

1965 - Office of DOP/ Operations Group

188 June 65 - Sept 66 Contract Agent- Madrid.

Sept 66=

to 30 April 2a fORfla, Chief of European

Covert operation.

---

## Page 8

- 7-

SECRET

July 1970- resualuation of tunt was conducted by os

ruly 19,1978- reported that Hunt had. joined the

White Housestatt as a consultant to mixun re uisit to Chi

11-6-70 - Hunt was granted a covert security approval

for use by Central Cover Staff With Robert R. Mullen

and company, a pr firm

In quiry of the central Couer Staff on 19 June 1972

revealed that this is the current relationship.

Subject's security file reflects that varon a has, in the

past been of operational interest to mr. James Angleton

Chief Ct staff/DDP in connection with an operational

mater. @a

37 1922

11110130

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

11781500

3/3/78

summary

3-13-78

Norman Rothman- 05

3rd Agency material:

1- FBI rpt dated 20 Oct 1960

a- FBI. rpt dated 14 Sept 1960

File: 97-4030

miam i Field off. -

File miams

97-213

3- F8J 1pt. dated 6/1/60

maani 97-251- Ardura

Title "Albert Juar

moya

memo for record, dated 25 April 1975-

• general info -

I- late 1959, Rothman was managing a notel in miam.

Beach, Fla which reportedly was owned by ex-cuban

President Batista, through Batista's brother-in-law, Roberto

Fernandez miranda.

11110133

SECHET

---

## Page 10

-1-

SECRET

michael meLaney

preously reviewed ly patricia ors & Junethen

Blackmer.

on a/a3)78

1111013i

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

file summary

3-13-78

John martino

OS

l page- 8 Jan 196a.

ease 36,973 - Drexel Gibsur

must of page cleleted.)

"6, When Gibson was transferred to La Cabana he

found only une other uis. citizen there, a retired

U.s, army officer named John martino, martino, believed te

be from Miami, Florida., went to Cuba in early 1960, for

business reasons. and was picked up at the air purt in Havana

arrival. He was held incommunicado for 14 months at

El Principe and is now

ser wing a 14 year sentence at

ha laband on charges of being the head of the "white

Rose" anti-castro organization, martino is desparately all

with kidney and luer arments and reielves no. medical care.

His pressie physical condition has kept him from being

transterredo to the Isle of pines.

hand written-tom John martinus name" Drug Addict!

11110132

SECRE

---

## Page 12

SECRET

summary 13178

written

Dino Cellini

OS

35d Agency-

Dept of State: Telegram from Havana to Sec.of State

# 1513 (Control 4333) : 615/59 with attachments the 1402

(controd 13747)-5121159;

Telegram (memo of conversation) # 1335

Telegram to Havana #951

EMBTEL14OD

5/27/59 and

5/22/59

one memo -

1 To Deputy Chief

, Security Researchstaff from Jerry

G. Brown. Subj: Edward k. muss

dated

14 May 1973

from Jerry G. Brown.

re varona-moss- cellini connections.

(see varona sümmary.)

11110134

SED EI

---

## Page 13

SECRET

summary.

3/13/28

3

Edward Browder os

aa sune 1917 poo: Amar lo,texas

1-Office.memirandun. Office.memirandun.1954

"Sabatino, Edward Browder aka Edward Browder

us citizen burg in mexico Burn abuut 1917

address: Hotel munte Cassino, Mex. City.

a- oftue mem

1954-

To chrof 05/SI Desk FromiP$6, 51D

subject; Broweder, Edward all Edward Browder Sabatino

cou salerno, p.B/success, has receed a request

fur expeditious inquiry to develop info concerning

subyect.:.

3=. memo fur SAC. District Field office from Robert H.

Cunningham, subj: Edward Browder

29 May 1954

... conforms verbal assignment of this case to your

office on az may 1954 with a request that

expedite checks at dept of state be conducted un

subject." Report results. verbally

ya memo sur chiet, special securaty Diù Frum EP. Hoicemb

attention

w miam mart Suaj Natunal Agency. Name.

Checks un Edward Browder Sabatino -pssuccess.

amay 1954.

11110135

"In uperatunet support uf project PesuCcess, it is

requestect that your attice. instate priority natural agency

sellet name chest, with special emphass on info developed

naturalization, and Dept us State or

---

## Page 14

SECRET

-2÷

Browder (continead)

5- bank page. @ ''SUBJECT: Sabatino, touis

Repurtedly an associate of Edward Browder"

6 memo

,28 may 1954,. tor. Deputy Chief SSD from

chief, Operations Branch ( Dauld E. Marlon) sub-Browd.

OIST: WH(pBsuccess) requests information regarcling

subect and une Louis sabatino

Details: i- the subject is of interest to wH. Division

(pB success) and has requested this office to

conduct certain: inquiries

a- Because of the sensativity of this case, it is

requested that the files of the FBI be

checked. through mr. Papich , concerning the

subject and. Louis sabatino, "

7- Covert Name Check Report as may 1954

8= Passport Fle. Check. al May195%

a unidentitied dodument - "The subject case, whole still

pending, was cancelled by request of the Chref, Operations

Project pBsuccess.!...

11110135

10.-: 3rd Agency- ReBI-Into dated 1954 references numerous

previons. ipts re Browder citda. 194-1953)

11- Letter to. Dr/CIA from FBI (not included- BULKY)

12° Refer to: 3rd Agency

1A CSI re

Captarn Ross Ruchd

Ltr dated flit15 a

SEGRET

---

## Page 15

3:

SECRET

Edward Browder

from J.H. Spencer lu. Lta. Santiago, Chile to

capt, Ross Rudd Springfield, mess. Arrenzl

a-FBIcept dated 18/9/59 miami 105-1774

(Bureau 105 - 72805) Title: Paul Jus: Hughes.

11110137

SECRET

---

## Page 16

wnitehouse-

there is a restricted cIon folder-

11110133

---

## Page 17

@ Information coering

y SECRET

1949-31 Dec 1959

SECRETA

---

