{180-10131-10332) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

JFK Assassinatio:: System Date: 10/19/20
Identification ‘orm

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Inform ion

HSCA
180-1013 1-10332

SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY

014730

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIO}
CURRENT STATI

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS ;

Document Info: mation

HSCA
[Restricted]

05/18/1978
64

CIA, METHODOLOGY

CIA, STAFF

[Restricted]

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN I'ERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO.
MEXICO.

MEXICO CITY

TRANSCRIPT
Declassified
1A; 1B

Redact
01/01/2003

Box 7

v9

NW 48331 DocId:32277217 Page 1


BS
a a
o
Da
og
io
aR ' ?
Beall
pA feox:
ar z Lick
a 8 Car
ee Beeld
=p s Ore
<A A oa fi.
a aS
d
a —
wu
ie}
g
5
v
uw
ci)
fay
—— oe es 2 see Y 2 8 & 8s A RoR A

NW 48331 Docld:32277217 Page 2



called for examination by staff counsel for the subcommittee,

i
ASSASSINA™ION OF JOHN F. KENNEDY |
: 1
i
H
!
|
Thursda:', May 18, 1978"
U. S. House of Representatives,

John F. Kennedy Subcommittee of
Select Committee on Assassinationsi,

|
i
i
i
|
i

Washington, D. C. H

Deposition of:

ALAN B. WHITE

pursuant to notice, in the: offices of House Annex II, Room

3370, Second and D Street::, Southwest, Washington, D. C.,

beginning at 10:00 a.m., before Albert Joséph LaFrance, a

Notary Public in and for. ihe District of Columbia, when were

present on behalf of the :-espective parties:
For the Subcommittee:

ee :
MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, ESQ., staff Counsel

For the Deponent:

(There was no representat..on by counsel

|

4os


Braue.

2°} Whereupon, : a
3 | ALAN 3, WHITE H

having been first duly sworn, was examined and testified as

we

follows: |

Mr. Goldsmith. Please state your name and occupation

o

x for the record.
i) =
q 1
cy : Mr. White. My name is Alan B. White. I am presently i
: t
9 involved in real estate. i
i

Mr. Goldsmith. In wiat state do you live, Mr. White?

Mr. White. In Virginia. : i

Mr. Goldsmith. Are :ou here voluntarily today and with-
out subpoena?
Mr. White. Yes. H
i
Mr. Goldsmith. Have you received a copy of the Committee)

Rules and supporting resolution?

i i
7 i Mr. White. I have. |

13 Mr. Goldsmith. Have you Kad a chance to read Committee !

9 Rule Number 4?

q
q 1 Hi
20 Mx. White. Yes. !

i

21 } Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand that rule? i
e@ -_ 2 i Mr. White. Yes sir. ;
a 4 ie Goldsmith. -Do ysu understand you have a right to :
e@ tA counsel?

Mr. White. I do. H

AW 48331 picta:sperisis Page 4 7 Hi D EN v f B r Ty ‘i 406 o


ie

aw a

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you waive that right?
Mr. White. I do.

Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. White, under the Committee Rules the

i
i
|
\
i
i
|
!

witness has a right to-re:eive a copy of the deposition tran=-

'
script. However, by virtie of the arrangement that the

i |

|
|
|

i}

i]

Committee has worked out vith the Central Intelligence Agency

in situations where we ar: interviewing present or former

tion statement. The waiver goes only to the right to receive

a | _Agency employees, I have jeen requested to ask those witnesses
: t
i 7 : |

Q to waive the right actually to receive a copy of the deposi-
'

10

i
i

a copy. We would naturally give you full access to review

i]
| the copy and to evaluate it for accuracy, what have you, and

eventually to sign it and verify it.
4 Mr. White. That would be my only concern.

Mr. Goldsmith. You are willing to waive the right to

i
HT
~te yw redeive a copy?

V7 i Mr. White. To have it, yes.

3 Mx. Goldsmith. You are content simply to review it and

19 evaluate it for accuracy? ;
20 Mr. White. Yes. i
2 Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had a chance to wad the letter

labeled J..F. K doc ument 96837? - at

White. Yes.

Goldsmith. Let the record note that correspondence

Exhibit 94 used at the Committee hearings, a letter

yo?


-

a

é

NW 48331 Doold:3b277217 Page 6 TA iy

from acting DCIA to the Clairman of the Committee. Do you
understand that letter?

Mr. White. Yes, I dc.

Mr. Goldsmith. The nandate of this Committee is to
investigage thé assassination of the President, to determine
whether or not there was < conspiracy, to evaluate the per-
formance of the investigative agencies including the Bureau,
the CIA, and finally to evaluate the performance of the
Warren Commission. Do yov. understand that?

Mr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had any discussion with any
present or former Agency employees in referencé to testimomy
that they may have given kefore this Committee?

Mr. White. No.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have you haa any discussion or contact
with the Agency in reference to the testimony that you are
going to give here today?

Mr. White. Only as to my legal rights, not as to sub-

stance.

Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Waite, where were you employed in

1963?

Mr. White. As of June 1963 I was Deputy Chief of the CIA

Station in Mexico City.

Mr. Goldsmith. How many years were you employed with the ;

CIA overall? :

ALY

Ea)
pa]
saved

a
Pe



i

ry

oe

o

rey
is}

Mr. White. From August 1946 until 31 July, 1976.

Mr. Goldsmith. I did not catch the first date. August
of what year?

Mr. White. August 1:46.

Mr. Goldsmith. For t:he record Iwill state I am staff
ae for the Committee and I am designated to take this
deposition. : : 7

What were your responsibilities as Deputy Chief of Statio
in Mexico City?

Mr. White. My responsibilities were whatever the Chief
of Station decided to have: me do. I would like to be more
specific than that but it was a very peculiar relationship.
I honestly cannot be more specific than that. I was requiréd
to keep myself up to date to the extent I was permitted on
everything that was going on. ,

Mr. Goldsmith. Did :our work involved actualy contact
with agents?

Mr. White. Yes; it did.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did::ou work involve'icontact with the
various surveillance operitions that the Agency had?

Mr. White. No direc:, not direct,“o6nly through staff
personnel who were direct..y involved in it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Were you aware of the nature of the

‘surveillance operations tat. were in effect?

Mr. White. . Yes, I was.

. 5

NW 48331 pocha sesraait Page 7 3 f B tN é c re r T 4o4

i ce a ct ne


Mr. Goldsmith. Who was the Station Chief in Mexico City?

i
i
i
fl
i

Mr. White. Winston ‘icott.

Mr. Goldsmith. Can ‘ou give us your evaluation as to i

his competence as Station Chief?’ Heat

Mr. White. He had been there forsl13 years. He knew and |

wo

was known by anybody who was of any importance in Mexico. He
was left there by the Director for that length of time. I

assume he was thought to he highly competent.

i
$ | Mx. Goldsmith. - What about the nature of the files
1 ' maintained by the Mexico (ity Station? Were they thorough?
iB { Mr. White: .They wert: incredible. They were exhaustive 1
i2 and duplicative in ey conceivable way. |
@ ‘ 13 | Mx. Goldsmith. When you were in Mexico City. did you know

i4 | Herbert Manell?

Mr. White. I did.

Mr. Goldsmith. What was his responsibility?

i
Mr. White. He was Chief of the Soviet Operations Section:

|
1a} at the station. if

1S Mr. Goldsmith. What about David Phillips?
q
20 | Mr. White. David Ph:.llips was Chief of the CA Section, H

i
|
71 |: Covert Action Section. ‘ \

Mr. Goldsmith. Did ltr, Phillips work at any time in:

rey
8

+2] charge of the Cuban Opera::ions?

wd Mr.-White. In the litter part of his tour he was in

zs i. charge of Cuban Operation:.

NW 48331 DocId:32277217 Page 8 7 f B Of fe a a 7 4lb


“regular contact with the }eople in the phto operation.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did :ou know Bob Shaw?
Mr. White. Yes. :
Mr

. Goldsmith. What was his responsibility?

Mr. White. He was Chief of the Cuban Operations as well

subsequent to David Phill:.ps' departure.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did :ou know Ann Goodpasture?

Mr. White. I did.

Mr. Goldsmith. What were her responsibilities?

Mr. White. She was i Special Assistant to Win Scott and

her main responsibilitite:: were to handle the surveillance

operations.
Mr. Goldsmith. By surveillance operations do you mean
. H

both the wire tap and the photosurveiliance operations?

Mr. White. Yes, I de. Principally the wire taps, how-

ever.4:She diidinot have ~-- well, she didn't have normal,

|
i
!
' |
That was handled out of tl.e Soviet Section.

Mr. Goldsmith. When you asy that she had responsibility |
for the wiretap operation:., was that for both the operations
against the Cuban and the Soviet Embassies?

Mr. White. Yes. Thiet responsibility was shared, roveee
H

She dealt with the outside: contract agent, who worked with the!

Mexican security represen:.tives who were actually manning the

phone taps.

Mr. Goldsmith. Ihave a document here which is referred

4



I
i
4
q

i
H

ret
is}

a

“an automatic camera“set up across the stréét from the entrance!

to as CIA Document Numbe:: 170 which was prepared by Ann
Goodpasture. I would like to have you look at it where it
says "Unilateral photo Soviets." It lists Ann Good pasture, |
alternate CO ana internal routing. Does that in any way help
you remember what her responsibilities were with regard to the
photo operation? :

Mr. White. “I didn't arrive until June 1963. I don't

understand what this was, What was the purpose of these names

meee

Mr. Goldsmith. Apparently Ms. Goodpasture was asked to
complie a list of people :n the Mexico City Station and their
responsibilities. What you are looking at is that list.

Mr. White. I knew none cs these people. If I knew them
at all I knew them by cry;tonums or transcribers. i

Mr. Goldsmith. Please don't concern yourself with the
other individuals.

Mr. White. Okay, a list of unilateral photos, Soviets.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what Ms. Good pasture's

responsibilities were with regard to the photo operations?

Mr. White. As near as I can recollect she picked up the

film periodically from th: agent who manned the photo.

Mr. Goldsmith. That was Mr. Sam Bernardi?

i
i
H
i

Mr. White. No. He was a station technician: There was

to the Soviet Embassy. W: had agents living.in there whom I

knew only by crytonym. I am not sure whether she met those i

NW 48331 pedal saris Page 10 Ti ad g ip a r T : : 412


NW 48331

DocIa:

4 PH
tm GA By i

VE

people directly or whethe: Bob Bernardi, who had been the

Station Technician and then resigned in Mexico, who lived with!
his Mexican wife there, my have done the direct picking up

and then passed them to-her.

Mr. Goldsmith.\What zbout Thomas Keenan. Do you know wha’

his responsibilities were?

sraaetianadal aa

Mr. White. Tom Keenen mainly handled the outside sur-

veillance team. .That was his principal responsibility. He

did help Annié with some cf the pickup.” To what degree, I

really don't know. But his main responsibility was running
the. unilateral ‘surveillance team.

Mr. Goldsmith. That was the unilateral surveillance team|
with regard to the photogi-aphs?

Mr. White. No, itwas for everything. It may have

included the photographs. This was a physical surveillance

i peer eee eee eee ie

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. For the record, I should say that i

consistent with the document which Ms. Good pasture prepared,
1 “CIA Number 170 lists Mr. ‘thomas Keenan as being both with the

| .vnilateral taps and with che unilateral photosurveillance.

How many different t:pes of wiretap operations were in

ease sega egetepoanpsnc ini oy-neenareg

effect in 1963.
Mr. White. - Types?
Mr. Goldsmith. My widerstanding ‘is that there was a

unilateral operation and 1 liaison operation.

j Riel Page 11 TA e Se fi a ct T z AI3


eo

wo

|
i}
q
20 |

asf

Ww 48331 DocId:32277217 Page 12 T a E EN E ig 8 t T 414

Mr.

Mr. Goldsmith. Was here any other operation?

Mr.

. Mr.
to the unilateral operation?

Mr. White. The uniliteral operations were — they chang
all the time. The only one who determined what they would be
was Win Scott. I have to say again to the best of my recolle
tion, that the unilateral taps were those that we felt we

could not discretely ask che Mexicans to do.

Mr.

did jointly with the Mexi-:ans?

Mr.

Mr.

the Soviet Compound, do y»u recall how many phones were being

tapped?

now?

Mr.

30 lines

+ Goldsmith. Couli you give some sort of an estimate?

awe

10

fare
pos
e

2g

White. That is ::ight.

White. Not tele»hone, to the best of my knowledge.

Goldsmith. What phones did you focus-on in regard

sigttsisaies —-R ssaiasisv ins oni oRuapanreopasnserccasvetooeatTtsnupett

sssnsssiittnantsnnieroyisian =~

Goldsmith. The ..iaison operation was one that you

White. Yes.
Goldsmith. Turn.ng to the liaison operation against
iat t
i
=

i
White. You are only concerned with the Soviet target!

Goldsmith. Yes. We will get to the Cuban later.

White. I honestiy do not know numbers.

Goldsmith. What abuot the Cuban operation?

White. I can't jive you numbers there either.

White. My recollection is that there was a total of

at any one time ind that half of those were given to j



ow

NW 48331 DocId:

ie Page 13 TA 2p ar p Fe) zc zy AIS

11

the Mexican Government and the other half were reserved to us.
The ones that were reserved to us the product was shared a
the Mexicans on almost al. of them. I think where it wasn't
shared it was because the Mexicans didn't want to receive it.
I can't put my hands in the fire for the fact that all the 1

Soviet or all the Cuban tirgets were on the joint tap. I think

some of them may have been on the unilateral tap. So, I would
1

have to ssy that there were probably more than -- well, the

Embassy itself, the Embas::y phones were clearly joint. H

Where home phones we::e ‘tapped there may have been some

unilateral, some phones that we kept only for ourselves.
There were because anything that was on the unilateral system

we did not share with the Mexicans. I am trying to think how

Many.

Mr. Goldsmith. Spec:.fically liaison taps against the

Cuban target?

Mr. White. It is a «uess. Three or four maximum.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would you read CIA Number 160 through to

the end of the paragraph it the tope of the page of CIA
Number 162 starting where it. says "Liaison: Coverage"?

Mr. White. May I as): what this document is?

Mr. Goldsmith. Certiinly. That is an excerpt from the

Inspector General's repor: of 1977.

Mr. White. All righ:.

Mr. Goldsmith. My f..rst. question is, does that refresh


12

ee

/

your memory in any way as to the’number of phones at the Cuban

ry

Embassy that were being e..ectronically tapped?

oe

Mr. White. I see it says five. I would not have any

recollection of that because when we got the transcripts we

just got them in a batch and I never paid any attention to
) What came from what phone The mechanics of this thing were
‘not part of my responsibi.ity.

Mr. Goldsmith. I wait you to understand I was not ques-

tioning the accuracy of your earlier answer.

Mr. White. I got th: 30 right anyway.

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, you did. I. was not making any repre

sentation as to the accuricy of. this. particular document.

‘Mr. White. I can't iault any part of it as far.as I can

see, There area couple ».f subjective remarks about Mexican

i
|
|
!
i
1

officers about being brutil and corrupt’ but you'can say that

about a lot of Mexicans.

7] Mr. Goldsmith. This paragraph here in CIA Number 161 say:
18 -that mid-1962 "The Méxicai officer in charge of the LIENVOY

19 i i asked the American office: at LIENVOY listening pest for the

20 | telephone numbers of the cuban and satellite Embassies in

:
1
i
|
!
i

: |

anticipation of possible zsoverage.’ Thé station immediately

disconnected all of the uiilateral telephone’ taps on these

Embassies’so that they would not be discovered when the

Mexicans hooked up their taps."

IT am sure you understand that. Prior to mid-'62 was the

NW 46331 Daesatsasvoaiy Page 14 T fi Dp g i e | r T : Ale.

shin


NW 48331

Docla:38277217 Page 15 The

i ue ye

liaison operation such thit both the Mexican and the Americans:
were jointly tapping the soviet, Cuban and satellite Embassies
Mr. White. The impl:.cation here is that the Mexicans

were not but wanted to. ‘‘ou see, this thing did not get

There are a lot of mechan..cal type bugs to work out of an
operation of that sort be ‘ore it begins to function properly.
So, I have no reason to believe that the Mexicans were tapping
It was before my time. there so I was only dimly aware of what

we had been doing against the Soviets and satellites at that

i
1
i
|
i
i
started until apparently, according to this, until mid-1958. |
1
1
|
|
i
|
i
|
i
H
|
time.

That: succession of events would have’ been. logical because
-
we kept.our unilateral. ta»s away from the Mexicans at all i

times.

Mr. Goldsmith. What would the station. have been working
on jointly with the Mexicans prior to 1962?

Mr. White. Probably communists.

Mr. Goldsmith. Individual persons?

Mr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. As osposed to the Embassy Compound?

Mr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. What happened to the transcript that were}
made of the conversations that were the subject of electronic

surveillance?

Mr. White. The transcripts came in several days after |

417


a

ad

[recen

14

a

i 1

“the conversation took place. As I recall we got either the

following morning or the rext morning -- I am sorry, the

morning after the conversétion took place or two mornings H

i later we got a summary of what had been said, depending upon |

we

‘the interest, and that summary was routed to specified officers

in the station. Not everybody saw everything, as far as I

know, other than the people who processed the material like
1

Be Ann Goodpasture and maybe in her absence Tom Keenan, the people
- |

who saw ituwere section cliefs and myself and of course:.the i

station chief. Anybody wio wanted anything broken out further;

would mark the passage, send a note to Annie or go to her i

12] with it an- say "get a conplete transcription of this conver-

{ } 13 sation."
atta i!

I always found the simmaries ample for my purposes.

1g || ‘Since I was not working ir detail with any of the operational j
i
{
i
18} targets, since I-had to kind of oversee all the operations
i
MW in the station it was selcom that I myself, asked to go back!

]
18 for something. So to ansver your question with regard to a

19 seriptions, what was done with them, I can only. say that if

20 | they were in Russian they weoula have to go back to Boris and

21 | get him to run a complete transcription or if they were in
e - 2 | some other language we ae a Polish-Czechoslavakian to break

17 | it down.

Mr. Goldsmith. It would take a few days from the time

|
!
!
H
i
|
i
|
i
H
H
i
|
i
i
|

conversation came in unti!. the transcript came to the station?i

NW 48331 DocId: deren Page 16 TB Pr y ah ar i T AI8


15

J

Mr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Was inn Good pasture the person who

\ H
; 3 brought the transcript to the station?
x ) 4 Mr. White. I think so. The reason I am hesitating is
5 | because I keep thinking that somebody out of the Soviet i
$ Section, I think it was He:b Manéll's wife, who was handling
7 | it, going back anf forthw.th Tarasoff. . H

2 Mr. Goldsmith. Was imn Good Pasturé acting in a super-

9 1 visory capacity with regaid to the liaison operations?

Mr. White. That is very difficult to say. .That is very

im difficult to say. She carried with her a lot of invisible

i24 authority that devolved upon her because of her operational

a

relationship with the Chief of Station, who had absolute

4 confidence in her. She hid a marvelous memory. She was
1§ meticulous in detail. I ‘think he had every reason to put
16 | that_kind-of trust in her
7 She reported directl: to him. ‘While she may not have
1a | been invested with any command authority by virtue of her

position at the station, certainly she was a kind of unofficia

i a augusta sae

deputy for the purposes o:’ the operations that whe was involve

‘in.

For example, we had :his old éx-FBI guy'on the outside

een

who worked with the Mexicins with the taps. When Ann.:spoke

i
i

to George Monroe and said something to him George knew damn =::!

>
=

2

i
well it had the backing 0: the Chief of Station. If he didn't:

’
u

NW 48331 Docld:32277217 Page 17 Tf p iN : yi 2 c rf 4 12 :



16
i
he could go around and check it out. By and large there wasn't
much question in George's mind that when Annie said "The
boss wants this", that it came from Win. To that.extent she

i
i
|
{
1

has supervisory responsib..lity.

Mr. Goldsmith. It was more of an unofficial. type respon-

sibility?

°.

a put it that way. Does thit make it clear?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

1
i :
\
i
|
|
Mr. White. -Yes. She was not in the hierarchy, let me
i
i
i
i
Mx. White. Okay.
'
nn | ’ Mr. Goldsmith. When the transcripts came in who would H

12 i -be the first person that hey would be sent to? H
|
i Hl

Mr. White. Scott.

Mr. Goldsmith. “Then Scott would route them to the
respective sections? i

Mr. White. Yes. They came in in two or three copies,

I believe. She would seni them directly to him and he would

{
underline them for indexing. It did not matter how many times!

1g | the name appeared it was underlined for indexing. That is f
20 | “why we had a room the siz: of the building for a card file. i
{ Anyway, the other co oy was then routed around to me and
ii to the various sections ciiefs.
t
:

Mr. Goldsmith. Afte: you people had reviewed these

copies the transcripts woild be stored? H

Mr. White. Yes. i

420

: TAPS
NW 48331 Docld:3#277217 Page is 9 $i #5


Aw a”
a3 3

aU 17

Mr. Goldsmith. At the Mexico City Station?

a] Mr. White. Yes.

e

Mr. Goldsmith. Would the transcripts be sent to

headquarters?

a

Mr. White. When you are talking transcripts, I am

wn

talking summaries. We se!.dom saw transcripts. When I-say

we, I seldome saw transcr:.pts. Ivknow some of the section

chiefs did.. People working on the Soviet target would call

1
¢ | for transcripts occasiona:.ly and I have seen them from time to}
time. But usually they wre asked for in order to get the
flavor of a total conversiition or to attempt to see if there
was any substance. to somei:hing that the summary had alluded |

e@ 13 | to. :

More often. than not «hey were then either filed or

destroyed. If they were ::hought:..to.be..of. significance. they

were sent home to Washing::on. My feeling is that by and large

{
7 we did not clutter up the mails: back to Washington with a lot :
1a} Of the detailed transcrip::ions.
19 | Mr. Goldsmith. Were most of the trasncriptions summarized
20 | and stored in Mexico City” a

os) Mr. White. The summiries were, yes.

e : 39 I Mr. Goldsmith. What about the transcripts? Do you know

about them?

Mr. White. No. I would have to defer to each section

chief on that.

it

NW 48331 pocta:sb277217 Page 19 i fi e

ey

42\

ae
iatiatid
“y
seca}

pa
fe
ia
res
Ps

r


i i Mr. Goldsmith... Do you know whether there was any coordi-|
i
i

i
H
|
nation between the wireta} operation and the photosurveiiance|
1

3s

il | the station and any direct:ions would then have to go out --
Mr. Goldsmith. I am not suggesting that would have been

direct contact bwtween the: two.

Mr. White. Coordination certainly at the station end.

3} operation so that if, for example, one of the persons monitor-!
: @ 4 | ing the wiretap came across an interesting conversation he
4 could in some way apprise the photosurveillance people that a |
4 aoe individual might be coming to the Embassy?_
ri Mr. White. To the best of my knowledge it was not. The
cc} i wiretap operation was coniucted by a mexican and the photo-
9 surveillance was. conducteci as a unilateral operation. Anything
coming from the tap operation would: have to come back from

1

1

|

H

i

1

|

|

|

!

Mr. Goldsmith. So the wiretap people would contact some=|

one at the station whose :esponsibility it wouid then be to H
|

contact in some way the photosurveillance people?

Mr. White.. Well, they didn't have to because the wiretap|

. {

people themselves were mechanics. All they did was process the
stuff. Now, that is not «:o say that maybe a conversation of

interest wasn't flagged f::om time to time. In the main, the

13 | around the station who then would coordinate on directions to

e 2 i the photographer.

By and large the camera was pretty much automatic. The

\
i
{

NW 48331 pocta:39277217_ Page 20 Th fu gin oe rT Hee Yar

H
1
|

| interpretation of what wa: said was the job of the case officer
I
1
H
i
f
|
i
i
i
i


19

i
principal thing they woulc. have to do would be maybe to pick 1
i
up more often than usual :.f they were interested in a visit

that was signaled in a telephone call.

Mr. Goldsmith. You «re saying that there wasn't any

5 procedure for the persons manning the liaison operation if

o

H
I : i
| they came across a conversation that was particularly signifi-|
i
q

cant, you are saying there was not procedure for them immed-

o

1.
| diately to contact someone at the station ‘to approse the photo-

t

9 | surveillance people of the: fact that someone of interest might;

{ fl
10. be coming?
{
i]
nel Mr. White. No, I couldn't say that because that would be/
q
32 | saying more than I know. I don't know that there was or. was

not. I assume there were means of emergency contact but I

a

never got involved in that:.
Mr. Goldsmith. Did the people at the wiretap operation
even know that there. was « photosurveillance operation?

Mr. White. Not to the best of my knowledge. Not to the

sd

13 best of my knowledge. They certainly shouldn't have.
49 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether at the time of the

assassination the Mexico City station had a tape recording of
ee :

3 Oswald's voice?

|
r 2 Mr. White. At-the t..me of the assassination?
; bessstttl if
\ Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

| ;

e@ 1d} Mr. White. I do not,

; as fi Mr. Goldsmith. You -ion't know one way or the other?

jae
a wy
NW 46331 Doold: 39277217 Page 21 7 f p g Fd q

oy

T oC



20

Mr. White.. I do not. no. I tell you my problem frankly

j
1
|
is, and is one that I-have always had a problem with, is |
|
‘remembering things ‘in’'the sequence that théy “d6ccurred. i

|

F Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know if the station ever had a tape
3 | recording of Oswald's voice?
4 tel White. There wa: a conversation ‘that was picked up -
7 -- I don't. remember which tap it was now, I guess it was the |
3 | joint tap -- which referred to Oswald. My recollection is that

$ it was him talking to the Soviets and trying to make an

i
10 7 appointment with them.
+
ny Mr. Goldsmith. ‘We-w:.11 show you those transcripts later
12 |
i

Mr. White. The tape: themselves?

H

{

!

on. How long would a tap routinely be retained? |

: |

\

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. |

i

Mr. White. I don't i:now that there was any routine figur
because we were always in need of tapes. There was always a

lot of pressure. Althougli these things were voice activated

they were running all the time. The machines were running 24
hours a day. So there wa:; always a great deal of need for

20 | tapes.

a Ag-n aa

21 | ‘| So as soon as they were judged to be no longer needed the:

[ - 2 were erased and put back :nto the center again. I don't know, |

i 3 | two or three weeks maximua, I would aay. By that time cer-

e@ qs | tainly one would know whe:her in most cases the conversations
i

1
2g 3 were needed or the tapes vere needed to back tip the transcripts.
H

: 1 Sy ey gy et
NW 48331 Doola: 33277217 Page 22 H f p ay f

a hUhD |


20A

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall ever listening to tape
recordings of Oswald's voice?

Mr. White. Ido not. Did I ever?

Mr. Goldsmith. My. record does not indicate one way or

another.

I would like you now to look at CIA Wumber 197,. the

second paragraph.

Mr. White. Yes sir. This then is the second call?

9 Mr. Goldsmith. We w..ll1 go over the trasncript later-on.

3

F.

Please don't worry about -:hat.

Mr. White. I was just trying to understand the paragraph
Mx. Goldsmith. The question I have with regard to the

second paragraph is does. :his suggest to you that at the time |

of the assassination the ;:tation still had one tape recording

z

1s of Oswald's voice or what they thought to be Oswald's voice?
16 4 Mr. White. This one, maybe. od
7 | Mr. Goldsmith. You :ay this one, youare referring to
13 | the conversation of Septe:;nber 28? .
15 { Mr. White. This whole thing is 28 September, that is
| right.
21 | Mr. Goldsmith. That is right. I should point out for

i

i
|
@ _ 49 || your information that was actually the third call. that has been
attributed to Oswald.
@ 24 : Mr. White. I don't «now what the second ¢all was. i
2s i Mr. Goldsmith. Ther2 were a total of four calls, at least

PRE

4257

~
—y
sas

T gy
E an
NW 48331 Docld:32277217 Page 23 ne Ny


WW 48391 pocta:39277217 Page 24 7T ni

wo

i
i
i
i
i

21

four calls, at least four calls any way. The questien I have

for you is in regard to the second paragraph. By the way

that paragraph is phrased does it suggest to you that at the

time of the assassination the station still had one tape of
Oswald's voice? In other words, that particular paragraph
does not say that all tapes of Oswald's voice have been erased?
All the phone calls with Oswald's voice recorded came in

between September 27th ani October lst.

Mr. White. At the t:me of the assassination there was

still-one recording with Oswald's voice on it is your question?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mr. White. I couldn t get that out of this paragraph. =I,
could not get. that out of this paragraph. _I don't know who
wrote that cable.

Mr. Goldsmith. Ann ‘s3oodpasture.

Mr. White. I was going to say it. sounds like Annie

Goodpasture cable.

I:-wouldnot* get that out of that paragraph necessarily.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let 1s look at CIA Number 208. Will you
read paragraph 4? : eae :

Mr. White. That is farasoff, isn't it?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes: Does that suggest to you that after!.

the assassination Tarasoft did a voice comparison?

Mr, White. Not necessarily because he was kind of a
legend in the station beacuse of his -- he had been listening
to that tap for so long taat he had what officers in the

426



NW 48331 Docld:34277217 Page 25

seine
nem

22

Soviet Branch continually told me was a marvelous gift for
being able-to analyze the voices. He had a fantastic memory :
for the voices that he heurd over those lines, or he heard on
those tapes, I should say It would not surprise me at all
that he could say that from memory.

Mr. Goldsmith. .Turn:.ng now to the photosurveillance
operation against the Cubin target, do you know what the scope

of the coverage was in te:ms of time? How many hours per day

were they taking pictures of the Cuban target?

Mr. White. I don't think I ever knew that. I don't

think I ever knew that.

“Mr. Goldsmith. How tiany years did you work in Mexico i

City?

Mr. White. Four. The usual practice was to start coverage
from the time the consulat:e target being covered opened until
the time it closed.. I am not sure about the camera in the
Cuban Embassy but in the Soviets Embassy that I was more
familiar with -- i
Mr. Goldsmith. . Let us talk. about the Cuban first and

: H

then we will get to the Russian one.
Mr. White. I can't answer the question. I am not even

sure there was a photo operation against the Cuban Embassy .at
that time.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is your:sbest recollection when there

TAB SEROIT a


~

ti

was a photo operation against. the Cubans?

Mr. White. That is right, there was one, but I can't
tell.you the hours, I am sorry.

Mr. Goldsmith. What about with regard to the Soviet
target? What were the hotrs of that photo operation?

Me. White. From the time their office opened, which was
‘about 10 o'clock in the mcrning, until it closed. They
varied their closing times from 2 to 4 in the afternoon.

Mr. Goldsmith. Was there weekend coverage?

Mr. White. Normally not.

Mr. Goldsmith. Why rot?

Mr. White. Because there was no traffic in and‘out of
the Embassy. ae

Mr. Goldsmith. What was the purpose of the phtosurveil-
lance operation? By that. I mean what targets were you trying
to obtain pictures of?

Mr. White. Persons cf operational interest who would

visit the Soviet Embassy really, regardless of nationality.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it possible that those individuals 99°.

would visit the Embassy or a weekend?
Mr. White. It is possible that they might have. This

decision was made before ry arrival down there and was based

‘on a considerable experierce of almost total “inactivity on

weekends. So any weekend coverage would have been pretty

unempressive I think. Most meetings I think were conducted

fie

APEBET 4a


24

|
fe with individual officers, either at their homes or meeting
i

~“@ 2 F ‘places around the city.

3 | Mr. Goldsmith. How :horough was the coverage when the

4 camera was in operation?

5 | Mr. White. Allowing for minor.outages, as you always |

4 suffer in those mechanica! operations, it was pretty thorough

? during the working hours.

é Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall how long it took for the

9 | photograph to arrive at tie station? In other words, from |
4 i

10 1 the time the. picture was :aken, how many days would it take

n for it to arrive at the s:ation? :

12 Mr. White. Film, I chink the photographs were processed i

in the station, I am not sure. I think it was about every

three days. It depended on the traffic in the Embassy because

when the film was used up then a meeting would be set up.

There were also normal roitine pickup types which I think were;

i
twice a week, I am not suse.

t
Mr. Goldsmith. Did c<hey ever adopt the practice of send-|

i
19 | ing the film to the station at the end of every working day: ,

20 | to cut down on the delay time? i

al Mr. White. I can't say for sure but it would not surprise
H
H

me after the assassinatioa if that had been done for a while.

. i
Mr. Goldsmith. But sefore the assassination? :

.
3

Mr. White. I don't selieve so.. That could have been

i
i
el
arranged at the behest of either the station chief or the chief
'

4
a
+

i
NW 48331 DocId:3%277217' Page

4A



a 25

of facility section.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did -:he Mexico City station ever obtain

a photograph of Oswald?
Mr. White. Through chat operation? _ i

Mr. Goldsmith. Through any surveillance operation?

Mr. White.. Not that I know of.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether a woman named

@ : Charlotte Bustos ever: fowid a photograph of Oswald at CIA
\ E E i
é i}
94 headquarters? 1
1 : i
te | Mr. White. I know Ciarlotte Bustos but I don't know what

i) | she was -in CIA for. She vas up there and: I. was in»Mexico.

Mr..Goldsmith. You .1ever heard’a story after the assassit

ao

_ nation she.was\ looking for a file at headquarters and found a

photograph of Oswald that had been taken by the survéillance

operation in Mexico City?

Mr. White. I never ieard that story, no.

Mr. Goldsmith. What would be the procedure for contact- |

ing headquarters with information? In other words, how is
1g | information communicated to headquarters?
zo | Mx. White. By cable or by dispatch. Y

Mr. Goldsmith. What would be: the criterion deciding

whether to send something by cable or dispatch? !

n
8

*3 | Mr. Whiate. ‘The normal criterion would be the urgency :

e z4 | attached to that information, the perishability of the infor-

mation, not its importance necessarily. The perishability

NW 46331" DocId:

i xe .
4277217 Page 28 f fh »

‘ce |



26

was the criterion.

n

Mr. Goldsmith. What do you mean by perishability?

o

Mr. White. If it was something. that concerned an event

that was going to happen in the next two or three days you did
5 not want to use a medium which was going to take a week to get!

to Washington.

“|

? \ Mr. Goldsmith. - ‘Then you would end a cable? ;

3 | Mr. White. Sure. : |

9 | Mr. Goldsmith. When did the name Lee Harvey Oswald first!

af) | come to your attention?
i

Mr. White. Obviously during this cable “exchange sometime |

12 | but I can't give you a dae. I can't relate it to a particulay
: j

date. H
i

Mr. Goldsmith. Was Oswald's contact at the Embassies
in Mexico City considered to be important?

Mr. White. At the t.me it first occurred?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
13 i Mr. White. I would have to-conclude that it wasn't
19 | recognized as anything ex:raordinary at the time it first
i
t

29 | occurrred.

2 Mr. Goldsmith. Why jo you conclude that?

galt gue enaeeunanasaazenaditnageniagapanaaionasanjecaaionaaqonnansonapiaat

| .
: i
e i a2 ii Mr. White. Because iad it been, it would have been pulle
2
!

+z] out and sent to Washingto1 either with a complete. transcription,
{ . I

ge a complete excerpt out of the transcription, or the entire tape

as H and transcript would have been sent to Washington by the firs

3

NW 46331 foe Page 29 Th P af fi fe r T 43\ i


Fi 27:

available pouch, probably by special courier.

|

2 | Mr. Goldsmith. . Does the fact that Mexico:City station
3 | sent’ to headquarters a cable reporting Oswald's contact
‘ | suggest that the station wonsidered the contact to be
3 Mr. White. I can't :emem-er when that cable was. |
4 Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take a look at that now. |

Mr. White. If that was before the assassination or after

Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take a look at that cable now.
Mr. White. All righi:.

Mr. Goldsmith. Please read CIA Number 178.

Mr. White. You are.isking what is the significance of

the cable?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

ao

7
i
H
!
:
i
i
i}
1
‘
H
i
|
i
i
1
i
\
Mr. White. Well, operational, that is all. Her is an :
{
{

American citizen, at leas’: a man who appeared to be an American

citzen, speaking broken Russian and in contact ‘with the

i7 || Embassy. This is of oper.tional interest. This is the kind
of information that we wer: directed among others, to get. back
to Washington because they passed htat kidn of thing to the
20 | Bureau.

Mr. Goldsmith. Were contacts‘ by Americans with the Sovie:

Embassy considered to be ‘inusual?

Hipage teaatiageeraeeageeeeeeetee tater

Mr. White. Well, we were 1963 then. They were considere

os

worthy of note, let me pu: it that way. Of Gourse, from an

i

operational point of view we were looking for any way we could
i

: ae THB ar
RW 48331 Docla: 35277217 Page 30 3 P at

PRET 0 ye2



4 : 28

i ‘exploit-a contact with. the Soviet Embassy. H
it 4
{ Mr. Goldsmith. Were such contacts by Americans frequent?

re

a

Mr. White. Not terr:bly frequent. Not terribly fregeunt;

eens

There were members of the American exile colony in Mexico City!’

uw

who were in kind of reout:ne contact with the Soviets, usually

| :

é | on cultural matters. No, I would say they were relatively
if

infrequent. That is why -~-

Mr. Goldsmith. -- the cable was. sent? -~

Mr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I re:.lize that the. cable does not say that

is a photograph of the pei'son mentioned in paragraph 1 but i

the cable suggests that this may be a photograph of the person)

x ) i3 i mentioned in Paragraph 1?
ia | Mr. White. Yes. es :
Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know how'that photograph was: linked
le i. tO. theperson mentioned? i
f :

Mr. White. By date. It was taken entering the Soviet !

13 | Embassy and leaving on th: same date this conversation. took

9 place. I remember that p::oceeding because we were combing.

20 | through the takes of that day to determine any person who
looked like an American mile. I believe this was the only one

Mr. Goldsmith. So the first paragraph indicates there

was a telephone conversat..on?

Mr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. And by virtue of that reference to the

|
|
i
{
|
|
i
!
i

(NW 48331 aa ea Page 31 Th e g : f z f T 433


F 3 § eee
i
ij H
My telephone conversation yo: would have gone to look for the
Hl
2 Photograph on October 1st”
3 Mr. White. Yes. i
: e@ 4 | Mr. Goldsmith. Did ‘ou at that time look through the H
5 | photograph take from othe:: days, in other words, before and
é after October lst? |
7 Mr. White. . I didn't ag couldn't say.
2 \ Mr. Goldsmith. Were you involved at all in looking |
$ : for this particular photoyraph? '
10 Mr. White. No. ‘I was involved in looking at it: once: |
n | that had been isolated. Z
12 i Mr. Goldsmith. You just. said you could recall the pro- i
x) 13 | ceeding where there was a search for this photograph?
is Mr. White. yes, I do remember that and of course later
1s events made that timé stand out a lot more.”
16 4 Mr. Goldsmith. Who were the people involved in the Davie

i

of.the photograph take, t::ying to find a photograph of Oswald?

Mr. White. Bear in iind this is the date of 8 October.

i
i
19} This was perfectly routin:, nothing to get excited about on H

">
3

that day.. Here is an appirent American, fine. Now it becomes

21 a little bit of an exercise, a little bit of a game to see if

we can match a photograph with that: telephone call. That is

all it was.

2
ua

Mr. Goldsmith. I unierstand.

Mr. White. The person: involved would have been the

NW 48331 DocId:3$277217 Page 32 a , p g i f Fé nN T 4Z4


n>

e +

ag

NW 48331 DocId:

pL

analyst, probably the analyst of the Soviet Section of which

30

Herbert Manell's wife was one.

Mr. Goldsmith. Anyone else?

Mr. White. I.can't 1emember whether Cynthia Houseman was
there at that time. I don't think she was there at that time.
I don't think she had com: yet. I know she hadn't. Herb
and his wife and one youn: male case officer. That would. have

been it.

‘ i
Mr. Goldsmith. Is ii: your testimony that you think this
photograph was selected because on that day that was the
only individual who could be identified as an American? i
Mr. White. Who appeared to be an American. I don't know!
what. time.the telephone conversation was.. But the time of the
telephone conversation mar’ have had something to do with the
eliminating other possible: American appearing pepole on
photographs that day. I «lon't remember whether there were.
Mr. Goldsmith. The ‘:iming of the conversation would not i
have. anything to do reall with the time that. persons were
were at the Embassy, especially since the conversation did oun

say "I am coming over." H

Mr. White. No, the conversation did not say he was coming

over, so let us scratch that qualification.

Mr. Goldsmith. Will you take a look now at CIA Number

|
|
!
i

177 which is the headquar’:ers copy of tHat cable? I hve one

question about that document. I am pointing to where someone

|
4s


i

f
7

NW 48331 poora:3$277917 Page 34 7 f e . : P q i T 43l

‘know, I never dealt with i:he Mexico Desk: files at headquarters

before the assassination? . . i

31

wrote in D: 200-5-41; _Do you know what that means?

Mr. White. That is the file reference. That is where

it was.to be filed.
Mr. Goldsmith. To which type of file does that refer?

Mr. White. That is ithe, subject file, 200-5 but I don't

So I don't know how they }roke that down. °*

Mr.. Goldsmith. Let us examine some of these transcripts

now. Will you please rea CIA Number 13, which is a tran+
script of a conversation -:hat took place on October 1, 1963.
Mr. White. Okay. i

Mr. Goldsmith. When was the first time that you saw this| ©

.

i
transcript, if you have ever seen it before?
|

Mr, White I don't know. I really don't know.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall if you saw this transcript

Mr. White. I Gould ave, I could Have but not necessarill.
If I did it was just part of my routine reading. Some days I
had time to read this stuif, somedays I didin't. |

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you ve whether this transcript was
the one which prompted th2 cable to be sent to headquarters

supporting Oswald's conta:zt with the Soviets?”

Mr. White. That first cable we saw was 1 October?
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. The cable was dated 8 October but

it referred to a contact. 9n 1 October.


o

ui

32

Cars.”

aa
Veuve
Mr. White. Very likely.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, in this cable the transcriber

3 , indicates the same person phoned a day or so ago and spoke
-@ a in broken Russian. Then ‘:he person identified as Oswald says
5 |

"I was here last Saturday at your place." Do you recall whether
: i

6 | upon: reviewing this transcript and checking the photo produc- j

: |

tion take whether the ind:.viduals: doing that check went back

1

a { as far as the preceding Siturday? |

iH i

oy ‘Mr. White. I would have to assume that they did. As I |
q
10 |

1
said, I don't think there was any photo coverage on the week-

!

ends. Have you found pho:o coverage on weekends? Am I wrong |

: |

12 about that?
x ) 13 i Mx. Goldsmith. I reilly can't answer that.. The Committee -

il rules prohibit me from discussing that kind of matter. ; H
1s i Now, will you please read CIA Numbers 14 and 15?
1 t Mr. White. Okay. Wiat is the question? H
7 Mr.. Goldsmith. Have you read 15 also? |
a Mx. White. No.
19 | Mr. Goldsmith. That is the transcription.

seed ad | Mr. White. All right. : i
yal | Mr. Goldsmith. Have you ever seen that transcript before,

'

221 the transcript from the conversation involving Oswald?

Although Oswald is not identified by name it was linked to

Oswald, and the date of it is September 23, 1963.
: \

Mr. White. I very likely have.

NW 48331 Pa sie Page 35 Th D a iB a i. T 432


nD

oe

ae

RW 48331 Docld:32277217 Page 36 Te Fe

i
i
4
|
y

feiss

LONE j

33

Mr. Goldsmith. Do ycu know when this transcript was
linked to Oswald? By that I mean do you know if it was linked
to Oswald prior to the assassination? :

Mr. White. I do not know that, no. I wouldn't know it.
because it. wouldn't have I.ad any ‘significance in the station
before the assassination except perhaps in an. operational

context or counterintellit ence context.when they were trying |

to find out who this guy vas.

Mr. Goldsmith. I have the same question for you in regard

to two other transcripts. They appear starting on CIA Number
16 through the CIA Number 18. Please read them and my question

is have you seen them befcre and when were the transcripts

linked to Oswald?

Mr. White. All right. You asked the same question?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.’

vr. White. I don't }now when that first came to my
attention. Undoubtedly ai'ter the assassmination. I would not |
have formally concerned myself with this in a routine operation.

Mr. Goldsmith. “Do you know at what point your subordinates

would have linked those conversations to Oswald? i

Mr. White. At what point they would have linked?

H
!
Mr. Goldsmith. In ot:her words, prior to the assassination

or after the assassinatio::?

would have had Oswald at ‘.east as one possibility and probably |

/
Mr. White. They were: very bright people. I assume they

i

RPRRET 98


34
\

the most likely possibili:y as being the speaker to whom

i

H

i

Sylvia Duran was referriny in. her conversation with the neice

3) So, probably before the assassination.
{

a

Mr. Goldsmith. Did :rou have personal knowledge prior to

5 | the assassination that Osvald had been to both the Cuban and

4 the Russians Embassies?

\
8 | Sation but, as I said, it would not have registered on me.
o Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take a look at CIA Number 183.

i
H
i
i
|
1
|
|
tf | Mr. White. I-don't --hink so.. Unless I read this conver-
t
i
|
H
Would you please read tha: cable? |

Mr. White. Yes sir.

12 i Mr. Goldsmith. When would Win Scott have put those
\
x ) 13 || marginal notations’ in?
14 | Mr. White. As he read it probably.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, turning to the marginal notation on }

the left where it says "sic" and underlines and points to the

|

i

i

|

: {

|
i : '
i

i

1

i

i
r

i7 word Henry. Do you know -vhy Win Scott would have written “sic

Henry Oswald?

wh Mr. White. If that is what that is. Is it "sic"?
q H
. 20 Mr. Goldsmith. I do not want to influence you one way or
a1 | another. We have had tes:imony previously that that is "sic™.|

Mr. White. Then it nay well be.

1
iy

Mr. Goldsmith. The <erm "sic" is commonly used to point

e «

|
|
\
|
|

out that there is a error made.

>

Mr. White. It would have had to have been after the

sy
u

ee |

NW 48331 DoclId:3#277217 Page



35

es
en,

assassination or after it became apparent that the person we

were all interested in wa: Lee Harvey Oswald. I say that

n

o

because it is perfectly logical to me because Win had the

i

files right on his. desk everyday for the Oswald investigation.
Mr. Goldsmith:. This is after the assassination?

Mr. White. Yes, after the asassination. He would have

been perusing them contin:ously.
Mr. Goldsmith. Now, this paragraph contains a more
accurate description -- I am pointing to the first paragraph,

i
|
i
i
|
!
i
i
i
i
H
{
i
1
1
!
|
|
{
{
i
|
|
“.-= contains a more accura:e description of Oswald, does it H
|

not?

Mr. White. Than’ wha:?

Mr. Goldsmith. Than the description contained in .the

i
i
|
1
i
|
cable 8 October from the exico City station to headquarters? I
1

Mr. White. Because -hey were: not the same guy. This i

!

was Oswald and the other juy wasn't.

}
Mr. Goldsmith. Once this cable was received was the '
2 : :

station aware that the pesson they had réferred to in the first
i

; i
19 | cable was in all likelihood not Oswald? 1

20 | Mr, White. I think so. I would think so. I have to !

| |

“21 | repeat again at this point in time this guy was nothing cther ;

|

e ee 2 than of reoutine coun-eriatelligence interest, you.see. H

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand. Woudl you read paragraph

Mr. White. TI did.

e 7 five?

wD
in

440


e:2

%3

24

“sent any additional information to headquarters on Oswald?

TOP SECRET 36

Mr. Goldsmith. It asks for further information to be
sent to headquarters reporting any contact for positive

identification. Do you kr.ow if the Mexico City station ever

For example, did they evei- indicate to headquarters that
Oswald had been to the Culian Embassy as well as to the Soviet
Embassy and that he wante! a visa?

Mr. White. I would havé to assume that they did. I
realize that "assume" is i bad word.

Mr. Goldsmith. You clon't have personal ‘knowledge one way
or another?

Mr. White. No, prio: to the assassination I would not.

Mr. Goldsmith. CIA lumber 181 is the headquarters copy
of the 1/10 cab le from headquarters to Mexico City which
was just reviewed. TI note: in the bottom left hand corner thad
Thomas Karamessines was releasing officer. Why would someone

that high in the organiza:.ion be the releasing officer on a

cable like this?

“Mr, White. Can I read the first page?

Mr. Goldsmiths. Certainly.

Mr. White. The reason would have been -- I don't know |
what the ground rules at -he DDO level were at that time but
the reason would have. bee: in all Likelihood that any cable
concerning the attention :o coverage of an American overseas

would require the knowledje and approval of the DDP.

Se is, ale


22

33

%

NW 48331 Doola: 32277217 Page 40 Tae SEPRET

TOP SECRET 37

Mr. Goldsmith. What would be the reason for that?
Mr. White. The question of CIA involvement on the
|| coverage of Americans. Ttis was a very goosey matter, even
then. As you can see iteinvolved coordinationwith the FBI ang
State and Immigration and so forth.

Mr. Goldsmith. That was my next question. Why would
this information have beer. passed along. to these many agencies
In other words, why was tle dissemination so wide?

Mr. White. You woulk. have to ask Tomm Karamessines.

I can't answer that question. That depends.on agreements bal

were valid at the time. between agencies. I would have no

knowledge of that.

[. Mr. Goldsmith. Afte: the Mexico.City station received

|) the cable from headquartei’s which gave the background on

Oswald and indicated that Oswald had been a defector to the

|| Soviet Union, to your knowledge did that in any way enhance

the importances of Oswald s contact with the Soviet Embassy?
Mr. White. Oh, yes, sure, it did. ‘The fact that he had

that kind of background. Sure, he became someone of con-

siderable operational interest. Again, there was nothing

other than operational in-erest. H

i Mr. Goldsmith. In a.1 likelihood that cable would have

q

prompted the people at t= station to go back and look at the

{
as
i

A : : 1
earlier transcript? : |
i

Mr. White. Yes, I would think so.

i
{| Aa


22
Bk)

24

TOP SECRET 28

Mr. Goldsmith. And elso to look for the photograph?

Mr. White. I.would think so.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do ycu know whether prior to the assassi+
nation there was any additional action by the Mexico City :
station in reference to tke Oswald case?

Mr. White. Other then analytical action and probably
reviewing files to determine whether there was’ anything else
that. they might dig out or him and tie to him-as a result of
those phone calls. I am rot aware -- I really couldn't say.

Mr. Goldsmith. ‘ If Oswald had been an agent of the KGB,
would headquarters have nctified you of that?

Mr. White. If they tad known it they certainly would
have. You don't normally expect an agent of the KGB to be
turning up in broad daylicht at the main gate ‘of the Embassy
or telephoning around ‘tow:

Mr. Goldsmith. If Oswald had been an agent of the CIA,
hypothetically now, would the cable: from headquarters have
indicated that to you?

Mr. White. Well, we would like to hope it would have
but it needn't necessaril:s have.

Mr. Goldsmith. They might have let the Mexico City 1
station just proceed to evaluate and analyze the Oswald case :
without giving them that :nformation? :

Mr. White. That is always a possibility in the intelli- ;
gence world. The principal need to know applies pretty widely
i

yw 40331 | poota:32277917 Page 41 TOP SECRET 443°


e Vc 22

3

e “

Ope ee TAP SECRET a.

TOP SECRET as

you know.

Mr. Goldsmith. Afte:- the assassination what was the
scene in Mexico City? By that I mean what was the atmosphere?

Mr. White. Crisis. The effort to run down clues on the
Oswald thing took priorit: over anything else.

Mr. Goldsmith. How nany people were sending cables back
and forth between the stat:ion and headquarters?

Mr. White. Well, the Cuban Section was originating
cables concerning Cuban. i:volvement. The Soviet Section was -!
sending cables concerning the Soviet involvement. Win Scott
was sending back: "think" pieces.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is "think" pieces?

- Mr. White. His own.inalysis of what probably happened.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did vou ever see any of those think
pieces?

Mr. White. I probab..y did. I say this was. happening.
It was typical of the kind of thing that happens. All I am
saying is that anybody who had’a piece of the pie was origi-
nating traffic on it. They all funneled through Win.

Mr. Goldsmith. The -:raffic did not go out simultaneous,

each section would have o::iginated the cable and eventually

it would have gone to Sco:t, who would send the cable to

1
1
i
|

Washington?
Mr. White. That is right. Neither can one assume that
the cables went out in th> same sequence that the events with

which they dealt occurred.



TOP SECRET = ‘0

; {
- | Mr. Goldsmith. I uncerstand. To your knowledge was
fl | Mr. Scott upset at the failure of the Mexico City station to
° obtain a photograph of Osvald during his visit to Mexico
; City? :
5
| Mr. White. Win baler é. very flegmatic fellow. He occa-
i sionally blew his top but normally you didn't know when he
; was upset by something. ‘ure, I think we were all concerned |
Z that we didn't have any specific identifiable photograph of. |
: 1 Oswald. I cannot recall the specific reaction at the time,
= | but I am pretty sure that it would have had to do with our
- inability to keep the camera going 24 hours a day, seven days
: | a week.
e@ af.
ae : Mr. Goldsmith. __Bo you recall if, the coverage was modi- |
7 fied after the assassinat:.on? |
7 | Mr. White. I don't :-ecall that it was but it probably
: was, for a while anyway. In fact. it.could have been even
: | before, I don't know, as 1 result of this. Washington cable
iy that showed Washington wa; concerned.
° It seems to me that :he photographic circumstances were |
7 rather bad. There was on2 guy and his wife who manned that |
camera. They were in a little confined Space. I can't
@ v [ i remember whether they had kids or not, a child. But there is
if 7 a question, it was partially a question of pressure on them, |
cates 25 H ot |
ae Hf t
{ i
q |

NW 48331 Doca:32277217 Page 43 Tae SECRET ie


i

IUF SLbHE |

&

a“
41

i
Mr. Goldsmith. |.We could establish by reviewing the trans}

-is fols sml
Pel eript that Oswald visited the Embassies a total of .at least
M

four times and possibly as many as six times. In fact the IGR
cr ) states he may have visitei as many as six times.

Mr. White. What is IGR?

|
|
|
|
|
| |
4 Mr. Goldsmith. Inspactor General's Report. Do you i

think ‘that it is unusual chat Oswald having made six visits

to the Embassy would still manage to avoid being photographed?

In other words, the Station went 0 for 6 on Oswald.

Mr. White. You say that the transcript indicates that he

visited the Embassy as maiay as six times?

Mr. Goldsmith. We zan go over the transcript piece by

piece and you would see tiat if you make the appropriate infer-

J
ences he went to the Embassy five times. ‘For:example, the con-
1

versation on September 27 between Oswald at the Cuban Embassy

5 i
and the Soviet Embassy, he says -- he is clearly at the Soviet

1
Embassy and he indicates “I was there," he clearly at the Cuban

Embassy says "I was there," at the Soviet Embassy earlier.

That is two days.

T he‘next day, the 28th, he is calling again from one.

Embassy to another and he says "I will be right over. I was

there earlier and I. am ccming back again." There is three times.

i
We have five times in twc days. My recollection is that the '

Inspector General's report indicates he was there six times
i

although. I don't know whet basis they had for saying that. In

Bee ie uaa fb



SUP MEbHE 4

42 i
any event if he was there five or six times -- my question

is not directed toward criticism of the Agency -- I am won-

dering in light of the fa:t he went there five or six times

that it is likely that a »chotograph was taken of him.

| Mr. White. I think che answer to your first question is
i) yes, it would seem to be :nost unlikely that he could go there
five or six times and escipe being photographed if he did it
during normal hours. Is -here anything in the transcript that’
would indicate that all tiese visits were during normal working
2 | hours?

Mr. Goldsmith. . Thre» of the visits wluld. have been ona
Saturday. One of the other visits would havé been late in the

afternoon, Friday afterne.n,:about four o'clock. The earlier

one onsFriday, you can't :ell by looking at the transcript

what time ne had been the-e.

i Mr. White. Then we sould possibly eliminate four of those

| visits, three on Saturday and the one at four o'clock if the
1a i Consulate was.closed. I 10 longer remember what hours the
ig | Consulate kept. I do rem2mber that we were always in light

mood saying how great it vould be to work for the Soviet

Embassy because they only seem to work about two hours a day.
So that would have l2ft only once or maybe twice when
we ‘should have gotten him and didn't. I just don't know.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let 1s take a look at CIA No. 197.

The reason for showing yoi this at this time is that this

i
i
1


43

reports Oswald's contact of 28 September, 1963. Is that

correct?
Mr. White, Yes. Ani this is 23 November. This had i
previously been sent, had it not?
Mr. Goldsmith. No. This was the first time that that
was being sent. . i

Mx. White. Really? |

7 : Mr. Goldsmith. To hradquarters.

Mr. White. What was the date of that last sable from
i headquarters that said send. everything?

Mr. Goldsmith. That was dated October 10 or ll. ~ i
Mr. White. It wasn'’: until the 23rd that this thing came?

Mr. Goldsmith. That is right. \

Mr. White. Wow;. I xu sorry, your question was?
Mr. Goldsmith. My only question was. this cable’ reports
the. contact of September 28, 1963. Is that correct?

Mr. White. Yes. Th.s is the one you asked me about befare

es Segacate estat seseuvegeiae

with respect to paragraph 2?

i
| |
| Mr, Goldsmith. That is right. |

: 20 ‘In paragraph 2 it maces reference to Oswald's October ise
211 contact, is that corréct?

Hl . 1

2 i Mr, White. Yes.

a] Mr. Goldsmith, Let is turn to CIA No. 202, which is a

e res i cable. Would you read pa-sagraph 6 of that cable.
= 25 Mr. White. Do you mind if I read the rest in order to

ce]

‘NW 48331 I eT - 46 T 0 P 5 Hy C Hi : T 44g |


44
get it in context?

Mr. Goldsmith. Sure.

Mr. White. , Okay. : i

Mr. Goldsmith. Parajraph 6 indicates ‘bther than infor-.
mation already sent re Oswald's connection with-Soviet and
Cuban embassies no other .nformation a¥ailable." My question
is, it seems that the onl: information sent so far was on the

!

September 28 contact and -:he October 1 contact, and there were}

two contacts on September 27.. Do you know why headquarters

wasn't told about those o-:her contacts at that time?

Mr. White. No, I don't. Somebody must have simply.

overlooked them. I tell vou the volume of paper that was bein
handled by a small number of People just boggles the mind.
Win was a very fast reade:: and a couple of other people were.

But the processing of all this detailed paper was a terrible

en -ae

_ time-consuming affair. I can only explain it that it must have

gotten lost in the furor of processing what was deemed to be
higher priority stuff. I was going to say did it not emerge
later that during this corbing of all available materials that |
they overlooked those two days?

Mr. Goldsmith. Late: on headquarters was apprised of the|
September 27 contact. Wht sent out this cable?
Mr. White. Herb Mane:ll and it was released by Win Scott.
Mr. Goldsmith. tho is the authenticating officer?

Mr. White. That is GHG. That is Manell.

|
i
i
'
|
i
i
i

won rococo owe TOP SERRET 00 wR


UP S2URE |

“Mr. Goldsmith. What is above Manell?

45

2 { i Mr. White. Those ar: the initials GHG. It is G. H.

Gestetner. The same as G.H.G. here. But that Rybat is a

sensitive indicator. It -vas not at all unusual in cases

5

i
q
| that were regarded as sensitive that the originating officer
|
i)
!

would send. them just to the Station Chief for release.

Mr. Goldsmith. Pleas: look at CIA No. 225.

Mr. White. Okay.

rs

Mr. Goldsmith. Did .7ou write that cable?

fs.

id Mr. White. I had to, I am sure.
a Mr. Goldsmith. My question is, that cable indicates that/
12 Oswald's only known conta:t was the 9-28 contact with the Cubai
-@ is | Embassy? :
i | Mr. White. Yes. i
1s | Mr. Goldsmith. At tie time you sent that cable were you
4

16 j aware that. Oswald had als» visited the Soviet Embassy?
i7 Mr. White. I was not. I clearly was not aware. I don't!
13.7 even know why I wrote that, how I got into the business of

writing the cable, What jay was the 23rd of November?

Mr. Goldsmith. It was a Saturday. i

ral Mr. White. That may be why.

Mr. Goldsmith. What do you mean, that may be why?
Mr. White. There was an outstanding requirement on

photos left over from the day before and somebody wasn't in

i
i
i
i
|
\
i
i
i
{

2
a

from the Soviet Section t> bounce it off of.

NW 48331 peee ee Page 48 T tf P & ; fi a F T so!



a

2
ry

4
il

we tess: pecrecseer717 vege 9 T¢ P 8 i GR FT 4s

Air AL BE A
: 46 i
Mr. Goldsmith, Are ‘ou, saying on that day you would i
have checked with anyone :hat was available and perhaps the
Soviet people were not around?

Mr. White. That is what I am saying.

Mr. Goldsmith. Wouldn't you think on the 23rd of Novem-

ber, the date after the P:-esident had been killed, everyone in

the Station would have been around?
Mr. White. Yes. It really doesn't make sense. As I

recall it was about noon, Mexico time, was it not?

Mr. Goldsmith. When what?

Mr. White. When he vas'killed. What time of ‘the day? |

I remember I was-in thevcar ---

Mr. Goldsmith. He wis killed at approximately 12:30 !
central standard time. I don't know how that relates to Mexichn
time.

Mr. White. I think ve were an hour off.

Mr. Goldsmith. This cable was sent the day after the i
assassination.

Mr. “White. The 23ri of November?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. : |

Mr. White. In other words, why didn't I know what the i

Station knew before this is what you are asking? :

Mr. Goldsmith. Righ:.
Mr. White. I can't explain it. I can't explain it except

either I had not seen all the traffic -- I assume I should


|
i
y
\
i
q

o.

cS

re
8

be
we

I aed
tim,

47
have before I wrote this.

1
1
|
Mr. Goldsmith. Afte> the assassination did the Mexico
i
while he was in Mexico?

i
i
Mr. White. Yes, we 1ad a continuously ongoing search of |
files and all possible soirces that we thought would contri-

bute.

Mr. Goldsmith.. Who vas connected with the investigation
in Mexico City, theFBI o: the CIA?

ur, White. I had no knowledge of what the FBI was doing,
only what the Station was doing. :

Mr. Goldsmith. Did. -he Station contact its sources?

Did *it contact sources o-: assets to find out what Oswald's

visits with the Embassy miy have. been about?

Mr. White. We certainly contacted any sources that we

thought would have anything to contribute. The funny thing
about this cable is that chere are no signatures on it. I
don't understand why it does not have any signatures on it.
Mr. Goldsmith. Does the cable normally have signatures
on it?
Mr. White. Sure. I see, this was the headquarter's ‘

copy. : ‘ : |

. Mr. Goldsmith. Ther: is nothing unusual about the cable

itself?

Mr. White. No.

he 46931 eae Page 50 T if P § é i Re T 4§2


~

w

2

Nw 48331 io Page 51 Te P ‘ r iF i E T 4S3

" Section at that time.

IUP SLUHE &

Mr. Goldsmith. When did you first realize that Oswald

48.-

had been to both embassies? Do you recall?

Mr. White. No, I do not. It must have been soon after
this though.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did the CIA investigate Sylvia Duran
after the assassination?

Mr. White. What-do you mean by investigate Sulvia Duran?

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you talk to any of her associates?
Did you interview her?

Mr. White. I can't 1emember who was in charge of the Cub.

zeae ~Eig nant qusnssoaestagseeiean

Mr. Goldsmith. Dave Philipps.

Mr. White. It would have been someone in his shop who
would have done it if it had been done. I believe she was
interviewed.

Mr. Goldsmith. At one point the CIA headquarters cabled
theStation. and indicated t:hat headquarters did not want to have

Duran arrested by the Mex:.can. Do you know why that. instruc-

tion would have been sent to the Station?

Mr. White. No, offhand I couldn't say.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you have any reason to believe that
Oswald may have been a KGIi agent?

Mr. White.. I have no reason to. believe. You can always
Speculate. I don't believe so. If he was he was a very poor

one the way. he handled hinself.

in


49

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you have reason to believe he worked

Mr. White. I have no reason to believe that.

i
i
i
| in some.capacity for the (IA?
i Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what the term CI/SIG stands

for?

on

| Mr. White. Special .ntelligence.

Mr. Goldsmith. Of tiie Counterintelligence ---

o

. Mr. White. --- stafi.

Mr.. Goldsmith,. What was the work of the CI/SIG unit?

Mr. White. I don't i:now. They had a couple of special

‘ou

units. One of them dealt with very sensitive operations. T hi

asst ean

CI Staff was strictly a p.per-pushing out-it. They had one or
two branches or groups. IG was one which did engage in actual

physical contact operations, agent operations.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would it have been unusual for CI/SIG

18 to have been the group thit opened up Oswald's 201 file? j
7 Mr. White. Initiall/?

a] Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

wi Mr. White. I can't .nswer that. I don't know what was

20 | usual or unusual for them. The CI Staff was a highly unusual

21.) outfit. i
: H
t i
22 il Mr. Goldsmith. Woul! it have been standard CIA procedure
: H

73 for an Agency employee to have interviewed or debriefed

Oswald upon his return from the Soviet Union to the United

States?

NW 48331 DocId:32277217 Page 52 T f P 8 fi a [ 7 : 454 |



50 :
Mr. White. It depencis on what was known about him at

the time. If he were a security suspect it would have been

unusual. The Bureau wou..d have done it at our behest. The

Bureau would have done it routinely anyway. But if he were a

| routine visitor to the Soviet Union we might have done it through
our Overt Division.

Mr. Goldsmith. That is the distinction you would draw.

If Oswald had been a secu::ity suspect of some kind it would

2nn2y (202) Sou-29n5

have been the Bureau's joi. If he were a visitor or a business-

ae.

man, then CIA may have done it? ; !

Mr. White. Yes, but through one of its overt domestic \

contacts. i
i

Mr. Goldsmith. What is a 201 file? :

i
Mr. White. A 201 file is a biographic file that contains:

|
i
information about jone pe.:son. Hl

Mr. Goldsmith. Woulia 201 file indicate whether or not i

a person was an agent, asset, source of the CIA? i

Mr. White. Yes, mos: likely. But there were other kinds,

z
5 H
i
zg of 201 files. The 201 file would not necessarily deal only i
&
i
= i with people who were agen-:s. 1
i
come 7! Mr. Goldsmith. What other kinds would there be? :
Se ; i

Mr. White. Anyone o1, whom -- let us say we had liaison

ats

with a German police formation. We would have 201 files }
on the principal officers with whom we dealt. All the infor~

Mation about that individial would go into that 201 file.

NW 48331

4ss


‘

Bags,

Ti

“TUF Shane

oa 51

gp:
i
eer.

Mr. Goldsmith. Are you saying then that the mere fact

that a 201 file exists dozs not necessarily mean that the per-

or source of the Agency?

- Mr. White. Yes, that is what I am saying.

i
'
i
|
son for whom the file has been taken out was an asset, agent
|
Mr. Goldsmith. Wouli a 201 file be opened on someone it |
eee: i

he were perceived as a count erintelligence threat? i

Mr. White, It could be. i
|
i

Mr. Goldsmith. If in fact someone were an agent for the

CIA would that automatically be noted. in the 201 file?
Mr.-White. Not necessarily. Actually it would be in ;

fetes t
the 201 file, in tthe case of an agent would be a sort of barel

bidgraphic data. All operations data would be in the opera~ |

tions file.

is 4 Mr. Goldsmith. It is possible that the 201 file would
\$ | indicate the Agency relationship but it is also possible that j

: i
7 it would not? :

Mr, White. Yes, It would be-kind of hafd if a m an werd
: i
an agent for there not tc be some hint in there that he was. |

It might not have specifics. A 201 file was really a file

designed to enable Agency namecheck procedures to be conducted

and be accurate but not recessarily reveal to unauthorized

members, of the Agency thet there was an operational relation-

ship with that person. Im I making the distinction clear?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, I understand.

I 48331 poota:3b277217 Page 54 Tf P i re R EF 7 456 |

|


a Sea” RY is a
3 DLENE | A

If you wanted to fini out what operations that.a par-
i

- €icular agent had been involved in how would you go about get-

ting that’ information? |
i
if

| Mr. White. The agen: has a cryptonym. The cryptonyms

i
1 in a case file would ke b<cken down into four parts. The

uw

first part of which is th: biographic information. That would
_ be the 201. The second part would be the administrative

information. The third part would be operations and the

fourth part would be prodiction. In part three there would

i ordinarily. be a.monthly. progress report or at least a quarterly
| :

progress report on. that o2eration wauldibe summarized in that.!
\

Mr. Goldsmith. For 2ach agent there would be an opera- |
tional file you. could tura to?

Mr. White. That is right.

Mr. Goldsmith. You would not have to know the name of |
every operation that the agent was involved in in advance and

go to that particular operatkons file? You could just go to

‘the operations file for that’ particular agent and it would
list the information.

. |

Mr. White. It. should list all the cryptonyms and all the

operations he was involved in.

I Mr. Goldsmith. Are you certain of that.

1 Mr. White, I am certain that is the way it was meant to

be. I am-certain it was not always done that way.

Mr. Goldsmith. As ~ matter of routine procedure that is

the way it is done?

Se Se ag?



53

Mr. White. Or was done.

Mr. Goldsmith. You jeft in 1976?

Mr. White. I left operations in '70. |

Mr.’Goldsmith. What did'you do between '70 and '76?

wu

Mr. White. I was in training and I was head of ‘the Anti-

terrorist Group.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do ycu' know whether ‘the Agency ever con-

sidered recruiting Oswald:

Mr. White. No, I certain do not.

40 i Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether Oswald had any contact
_ 11 jl with Agency personnel while he was in the Soviet Union? — : |
12-| Mr. White. I do not know that either.

Mr. Goldsmith. Were you ever interviewed by anyone from

the Inspector General's o1'fice concerning the surveillance
operations in Mexico City:
‘
Mr. White. When? . H

Mr. Goldsmith. Dur:.ng 1963. Let me rephrase the ques-~ /

tion. Were you ever inte::viewed by anyone from the Inspector

ig | General's office concerning the surveillance operations in

|
20 | Mexico City during the tine that Oswald was there?
i

ral "Mr. White. Not to the best of my recollection.

i ' Mr. Goldsmith. Have you ever been interviewed by the

Inspector General's Offic: in regard to any matter?

Mr. White. Oh, yes. Sure, they used to make routine

i
inspections of Stations and so forth and I am sure I have been|,
t

RW 46331 i Page 56 Tf Pp 8 a RB r T 456!



n

eee TD eee

(UP SEuKE

Mr. Goldsmith. If they had asked you questions about

54

Oswald in Mexico City wou..d you have remembered that?

Mr, White. Gee, I don't know, That is a kind of funny
question. If they asked né questions would I remember?

Mr. Goldsmith. The :‘e-son I ask is that your answer to
my question was "no, not -:o the best of my recollection." I
guess I am looking for a i0re definite answer.

Mr. White. I would .ike te be able to give it to you.
If they did interview me .t must be a matter of record. I
would rather say I can't ::emember ‘than make a stab at it.and
give you a.wrong answer because your work must be difficult

enough without trying to jet people to back up on statements

they have already made "w:1l, it says here in the record."

Mr. Goldsmith. Did -ou ever know a CIA officer named
Maurice Bishop?

Mr, White. Is that iis real name?

Mr. Goldsmith. I doi't know.

Mr. White. I don't chink. I ever knew anyone under
that name.

Mr. Goldsmith. - Do y>:know whether Dave Philipps ever
used that as an operational alias?

Mr. White. I don't cnow if he ever did or not.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did sow ever use any operational aliases?

Wr. White. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. How nany would you use?

{
i
i
t
i

4st


55

Mr. White. As few as possible because you can trip
yourself up that way very easily.

Mr. Goldsmith. It would be very unusual’ for a case officer
over a period of years le: us say to have used hundreds of
Operational aliases?

Mr. White. Hundreds? I would term it most unusual.

Mr. Goldsmith. For -he reason you stated, it would be
tough to remember which oie you used with whom? H

Mr. White.:.-Exaétly.

Mr, Goldsmith. What is your opinion as to the manner
in which the Agency handl:d. the Oswald case prior to the
assassination?

Mr, White. Prior to the assassination?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes,

Mr. White. From wha: I knew about it I would say they
handled it in about the way that was to be expected, gave it
about the degree of impor:ance that it merited.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did ieadquarters ever criticize the
Agency for not having a piotograph of Oswald?

Mr. White. The Stationa’

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. i

Mr. White. They may have. That really would have been j
the spilt milk department wouldn't it? So it would not have
made much sense to use th2 communications channel for that.

I would have expected, if it were a criticism, if it did come

aud


re

Pow
dds ij 56 :

as a criticism, to come mre in a personal letter to Win or
during one of his visits to Washington.

Mr. Goldsmith. Woulc. he have told you about that? |

Mr. White. He might have. He might not have. He was
a strange guy.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall one way or another whether
headqaurters ever did cti-icize the Station?

Mr, White. I don't zemember any criticism for that.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is your opinion of the manner in

which the Station conduct2d itself after the assassination?

Mr. White. Everybody was flat out,.I tell ylu that, doing
whatever it was he was doing to take care of his part of the |;
affair. Whatever role hai been assigned him to play, every-

|
body was doing it without any regard to hours of. work or

1S anything else. That went on for a number of weeks. The

recollection that I retain is one of continuously grinding out

_the same material over ard over again saying it in different H

i

i

|
aa ways. I can honestly say that I have never, since leaving the
i
| Mexico City Station, reread any of those files until this materia

I have seen today. ae peeeaeeeaaes ;

rey
ra)

A lot of stuff has ».een superimposed on my memory of those
|

events. The principal fict that concerned me was that, yes,

i
3 | we did get transcripts of Oswald's telephone calls and, no,

a |

i we did not isolate a photograph of him and that was a damn

shame, but I personally san't fault anybody in the Station

i
|

eee UR Oecner | dbl


NW 48331. DocId:32277217 Page 60 T 0 5 f iF i E T . 7 ;

-of this deposition will te transcribéd. You will be given an

Of SLRs

57 |
for what he did or didn't do with respect to that investi-
gation.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you or anyone else at the Station |

have knowledge of the CIA's anti-Castro. assassination plots?

Mr. White. No. I can only speak for myself. I don't
know what knowledge other people had. It was ‘not discussed |
with me. ‘ :

: Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. white, I would like to thankiyou |
very much for being here today. You ha-e been very patient.
You have been generous with your time. Customarily the com-
mittee gives the witness who appears before us at a hearing
the opportunity to make e statement. Although this. is not
a hearing if you would like to make a statement at this time,
feel frees:

-Mr. White. I don't have any statement I would like to |

i
make on the record. Let me say that I apologize for my faulty
memory. I wish it weren't that way but it always has been. |
It must be frustrating fcr you.. Perhaps I am not the first bad
memory you have encountered.

i
Mr. Goldsmith. Thark you.. Let me state the entire record

t

i
opportunity to review it, will be asked to sign it and to i
verify it. The. court reporter will be requested to certify
that the transcript is a complete, accurate and true record
of all the testimony given.

,Mr. White. So you vill want me down here again?


ae

fi 58
\

Hy Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, simply to read through the testi-

i
!
i
1
|
mony. We will do whatever. we can to accommodate you in terms re

2
i
3 | your time constraints. i
jj |
al i
| Mr. White. All right. |
4 : P|
S| Mr. Goldsmith. You could waive that if you want to but
1

o

I would want to put it on the record.
Mr. White. I won't lave any chance to amend anything? i
1

Mr. Goldsmith. You won't have an opportunity to amend.

{
|
You will have an opportun:.ty to correct. However, if. upon

Mr. White. It might not be a bad idea. Inevitably I am

i
10 i reviewing the deposition sou would like to make an additional

\ {
11.4. statenient I would certain! y. give you that opportunity.

i
12,

i}

i

|
:going, to be thinking now.ibout what we have been taiking abouti.

It is possible that there might be some more light along the
line.

[ t
Mr. Goldsmith. Why «ion't you get in touch with us when the

transcript.is completed?

Mr, White, All righ:,

(Whereupon, at 12:30 p.m. the taking of the deposition

was concluded.

1
a

won wiston mew TOP SECRET = 4


we
ta

NW 48331 DocId:

59 H

I have read the foregoing pages
1 through 58, inclusive, which
contain a correct transcript of
the answers made by me to the

questions therein recorded.

Signature is subject to

corrections.

i
i
1
i
(Deponent's signature_

ay , Notary Public in and for the
District of Columbia, do hereby certify that I.am notarizing
and witnessing signature ‘or the Deposition of Mr. Alan B,

i
1
i
“qhite‘on this day of

Notary Public in and for the |
District of Columbia



tre
€
1
pt
&
te
ret
B
fare

60

I, Alfred Joseph LaFrance, the officer before whom

the foregoing deposition vas taken, do hereby certify that

the witness whose testimony appears in the foregoing depositio’

| was duly sworn by me; tha: the testimony of said witness was
4 : taken by me in shorthand :0 the best of my ability and there-
: | after reduced to typewrit..ng under my direction, that said
a deposition is a true reco::d of the testimony given by said

9

ae - -B

witness; that I am neithe-: counsel for, related to, nor

employed. by any of the pa-:ties to the action in which this .
‘deposition was taken; and further that I am not a relative or
employee of any attorney ot counsel employed by the parties

thereto, nor financially or otherwise interested in the out-

come of the action.

‘ el
Notary Public in and for
the District of Columbia

My Commission expires November 14, 1980.
is ends

vow wontons ona TOP SEGRET. ues
