180-10144-10222 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF s J

.'. MARCOS DIAZ LANZ 7 |
201-259716 7 SECRE} a “

VOLUME I Lliketos

THIRD AGENCY DELETIONS:

FBI:
9/24/59 Confidential Marcos Jose Diaz Lanz” ~ 105-1962 Miami
8/8/59 Cuban Political Matters 105-1962 HI

2/2/55 Confidential Carlos Prio Socarras, et al 109-430 New York
5/31/55 : coe : 109-43 ‘
12/15/53 " " " " "

11/19/53 Confidential beeen " Wash, DC
8/26/53 0 “ “ " 109-430 u “
9/10/53 “ “ " " "

2/14/55 Secret Comandos de Rsistencia Miami

11/23/54 Confidential Carlos Prio Socarras 109-43 New York

10/26/59 Memo of conversation, between MDL and Bernard Reichardt.

Reichardt, WH representative. Miami

Marcos relting info that Hugeut arrived Miami, contacted Marcos
and told him Menoyo in Atlanga, GA to meet with MDL, PDL and Ricardo
de Lorie. Making arrangements to travel by car to Atlanta.
MDL requests Reichardt come also.
‘

-- Dispatch 10/15/59 by (Patria Karnely) - rept of contact wingidina)

Cb1

Sold C-46 for US $46 thousand. (qv) rents that MDL and Fiorini
making rounds of arms dealers getting prices for fairly sizeable
amounts of small arms.’

MDL has been approached by Dominicans thru McDonald with an offer of
"Millions" if they and other defectors from 26th July movement join
forces with Pedraza and the Dominicans. MOL says they have completely
rejected these offers. McDonald=Alan McDonald, known to be close to
Enrique Garcia.

IN 30756 9/29/59 SECRET

Indicates Station gave MDL $882.72 for living expenses and fare Miami
while Mexico. RETURN 9

omega ae ‘G0

/019¢-/OZ22ZE


SECRET

DIAZ LANZ, page 2 114142160

03

-- 9/22/59 .Memo for the record by; -3.Flores} conversation with

Reichardt

Reichardt took MDL to INS to take care of immigration

status, later told tha’ az‘ hearing had already been held,
and 0S van, Cotter)’ concerned Bernie not reporting
accurately On the situation in Miami.

Bernie to identify himself to 3 evacuees by using(déve Morales’) nan

Reichardt asked for info re: Sanjenis, who was fired from #2 spot
in DIER for anti-Castro activities, expected to arrive in Miami.

Report that Rev. Air Force planning to regoye a couple of
planes from US w/out an export permit.([Byers)has info re
Cuban air force mission in Miami concerning the aircraft.
Cubans asked him if he could find American pilots for the planes.
Omit
9/9/59 Memo, conversations w/ Reichardt by(f,0-Flores)]

Diaz Lanz brothers still believe Menoyo and Morgan anti-Castro
despite double-cross in Ortega plan.

9/9/59 Memo for record
Reichardt suggests we bring together PDL, MDL and Lorie with
some who have money such as Julio Lobo, Cadenas, Malone, and/or
Figuere.

9/59 Conversation w/ Reichardt 9/4
Reichardt in touch with Bill Pawley;

8/25/59 Memo, conversation w/ Reichardt by Martha Tharpe
Reichardt established contact with MDL.

8/18/59 Dispacth from(karntey} gontact w/ MOL

off deal. /Karnley)to try to fet them together again.. MDL

MOL deat. had ey)ta t at one time with Julio Lobo, but backed
presently living ih Fiovini's house.

8/7/59 Discpatch from(karnet yp meeting with MDL, PDL, Lorie

groups with Batista taint.(Karnley)"inclined to believe

that they are about the most wholesome group in sight."

Interested in full scale propaganda program.

Close and-apparantly unshakeable-relationship with people

like Frank Fiorini, despite warnings that Fiorini talks too much..

8/5/59 Dispatch fron(karatey) MOL escape a ECRET
k O'Connel],

Do not want to be saint ( erie group; will avoid

MDL sent message to Fiorini thruj

en


DIAZ LANZ, page 3 . “SECRET

Llisetey

regarding channel to get in touch with MDL.

PDL and Lorie staying together in Key Biscayne.
Attachment to(uwa-s) 8/5/59

carried

Note to Frank from MDL - Message / byfbick o'connet)
Memo 7/31/59 Debriefing of MDL

MDL using name Mariano Jimenez y Gomez.
7/31/59 Dispatch Caxit-a)5357

Returning personal documents designated for use by subject
for cover identity.

7/31/59 (sxs-a)ssaa Dispatch

Transmitting photos of subject in two different disguises,
plus photo of subject before the changes. (Photos not attached).

7/31/59 Memo from JC King
Confirmation of verbal request for assistance in providing
documentation specialist and a disguise specialist to travel
to Havana’to aid in evacuatton of MDL.

7/28/59 Memo RE: MDL
MOL. departed Cuba w/CIA assistance, arrvingin Tampa 7/27.
Now udner control of CIA representatives, will depart Tampa
for Miami 7/29:.or 30 where he will be available for FBI debriefing
Handled so as to avoid all publicity.

7/27/59 Memo for the record
Rudolph E. Gomez spoke fo the Director, CIA reMDL, upon Mr. Helms
recommendation. Concerned re: State Dept reaction to
CIA assistance in evacuating MDL at present time. Will inform
State that MDL in US and‘make MDL available to intelligence
community.

IN 45703 7/29/59
MDL placed on board MV "Roatan" 7/25 for Tampa.

OUT 78034 7/22/59 3 93

MDL at Station. Evacuation asstted by Giers]anc wittiansl
MDL will be transferred to intermedia (ANCLATTER who will
take him toStation safehouse.

Out 7647 7/9/85 SECRET

(Ficx 0' Comal) connected with Cummings Diesel Co, Havana, and

4190) .


DIAZ LANZ, page 4 SECRET 11442162 -

stringer for Hava Times, contacted ir. james Byers} and [craig ee)
7/17/ Brought note from MDL addressed to a (Gy no Heyer ng ans)

and Sergio Diaz arange his escape from Cuba. (ery and Wit trangpsar gree
withholding ngte from Fi oninigpending CIA decision on matter

Propose send ers) and Williai both cleared CIA contacts, to Hava
7/18 to act aS cut out for station on op. Will use identification
phrase, "Bernie sent me."

-- TOCS 3/397,010 4/30/59

MDL on Raul Castro's list of officers to. be purged. (Also on list:
dose Duarte, Victor Paneque, PDL

-- 201 file request - opened 4/12/60

SECRET
Sop


. MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

201-259716 : : SECRET

VOLUME I tiiciey

11/11/77 Memo
ne:6 81701 report mentioning Minister-Counselor of Cuban Emb
in Jamaica on /24/77 that Cuban exiles suchas Diaz Lan (fnu) ano
others had been involved in the assassination of Pres. Kennedy.
(9/20/77 article NY Daily News - Lorenz allegations).
WAVE-09611 6/11/63 (ur903006 extract
6/63 MDL invited Fiorini to join raid against Cuba 6/15 using
moppy owned by him and PDL. Carlos Garcia and Salvador Garcia
Oller also to be on raid.
INS Bio data 4/22/77 A-1188113D
Lists empl: from 73 to pres as S.D.Brul] and Assoc. Miami, FL.
Memo for SA/LAD 4/13/76 by Chris Hopkins
Indicates Barker sent lettefto DCI 3/31/76
Hopkins does trace on 3 names - presumably brought up by Barker:
Father Jose Leonardo Vazquez - no traces

Father O'Farrill - Traces re: '58 assistance in stowaway

MDL - droped w/out prejudice fom Dept of Army 4/63.
Good friend Fiorini.

Barker's letter - recommneded not answered.

Message 614941 10/29/74 Hy

Pinochet of Chile requesting info re: MDL because he received
letter from MDL requesting data on govt Chile for use in series
of talks before powerful US businessmen. Info 11/64 indicates
MDL operating as arms dealer under alias “Pedro Garcia" and was
member of Minutemen in Yalaha, FL.

List of POAs cancelled. 4/4/67
MDL and Mitch Werbell both on list

(ueca}-18679 11/18/64 Planned insurrection of Minutemen in FL area
Monitoring clandestine arms smuggling op directed against Venez.
Source in contact with Garcia (MDL) Nov 1, who indicated he was

a member of idee erating in Yalaha area. Stated that if Pres
LBJ were re-elected Pres, this group planned beh in
SEC ti

99


: DIAZ LANZ, page 2 ef
~ SECRET 11442165

armed insurrection against US govt. Garcia bragged he provided
arms for above revolt. Remarks made cdyally.

Memo 11/10/64 - meeting with MDL by source 11/3/64. As Johnson
emerged as winner, MDL became more and more excited. Criticized

LBJ severely and referred to him as an SOB. Said it was becoming
obvious that "they" would have to go fight in the streets because
"they" could no accept LBJ govt. "They"=understood to mean Minutemen.

-- Memo for Harvey Summ, Acting Director of Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
CAS-63-172 12/24/63
In compliance w/ request 11/6/63

at Summary of info re: PDL and MDL - comprehensive.
Last item - Fiorini reptd 7/27 that PDL and Ramon Garcia planning
an air raid on Havan for 7/28 w/ cargo of. propaganda leaflets
attacking US administration, CIA, and Manuel Artime. Warned against
2nd Bay of Pigs. After leaflet release,plane would drop six bombs
and return to US. Fiorini was to act as co-pilot and an unidentified
individual was assigned the task of making a press release from
Mexico City. Plans for 7/28 leaflet drop frustrated by FBI sur-
veillance so action scheduled for 8/8/63. However, nothing further
heard of raid and Diaz Lanz brother s seem to have dropped momentaril
out of sight.

-- Message 8/8/63 2337

PDL intercepted 7/28 on his way to Weir Williams ranch, prepatory
to air strike. As of 7/31 Diaz Lanz brothers had devised new plan to
draw off any FBI surveillance

Info from Barker. thru Fiorini WAVE 2337
WAVEs re: planned raid - info from Barker thru Fiorini -

7/30/63 WAVE 1977 -PDL intercepted by FBI . MDL blames PDL wife
for leak. DL brother, "Johnny" DL just in
from asy.Jum Uruguayan —Emb - also in on plan.

6/11/63 WAVE 9611 - MDL invites Fiorini on raid using moppy

5/4/63 WAVE 2379? - MDL trying to patch up differences betweem Fiorin
and PDL and enlist his aid. MDL recvd cable from
PDL in Washington that he recvd money from
Cuban located in Washington.
Raid has no connection with strike palnned by
Jose "Pepin" Bosch. Inof that Bosch said Laureano
Batista Falla and Rorke stolen his thunder by
their strike on Cuba.

-- ISR log - ISRM #8521 4/15/63

MDL dopped w/out prejudice

SECRET


DIAZ LANZ, page 3 “SECRE,

Memo from Carlos Blanco AA-842 9/29/62 dicicive

Marcos eldest of DL brothers. Leader of family is Pedro

but the one who does all the business deals and handles

the money is Marcos. As result of this, Marcos has
reputation of being little trustworthy when mony is involved.

Memo from Carlos Blanco AA-472 8/22/62

MDL very close friend of Slavador Garcia (Oller) of UR.

7/25/62 Memo to Dept of Army

Re name check requested by Army 7/12/62 Addt1 info available
from FBI, INS, Dept of State.

-- (vrca)-4820 6/27/62

Memo re: Jose Carbonell Marrero

Naturalized US citizen of Cuban birth who reentered US 5/15/62
after 26 months inCuba, served approx. 14 months inprison.Said
to be w/ G-2 and in US on G-2 assignment. Used by R. Masferrer
in '59-'60 as double-agent, sending false info to GOC.

wo. vor 6) ? source

Message OUT 99988 12/6/60

Report from former G-2 agent that Capt Rodriguez Tamayo aka
E1 Mexicano and 4 colleagues working w/ DL brothers volunteered
provide Cuban G-2 w/ info re DL group in Cuba in return for $.

-- 5/12/60 Cbl In 38213 from Miami

Re: efforts to get financial backing for PDL. $50, 000
mentioned at meeting attended byAlliegro, Piedro and Faget.
Also reptd that force of men, poss. 100, being trained by
Fiorini for PDL. PDL jn possesion some amount of money to
outfit this goup. May wish consider proposing coordinated
action by US gvot to frustrate this.

04
-- memo 4/1/60 from. Whedbee) (Jordan) re MDL

MDL left US for Mexicu several months ago, violating parole,
then couldn't get visa to return to US. Aloowed to reenter on
parole, but MDL not told, consequently swam river, made wa

back with help of Catholic organization, went to Wash, contacted
congressional committee, which passed him on to INS. INS

upset. MDL to return to FL, go to INS appointment 4/2.

itheabe) us ing name Bob Jordan contacted MDL- no furthe r
contact anticipated.

Memo 3/7/60 from J.D. ESterline SECRET

Early Jan '60. MDI went to Mexico City and applied for

Nop


MARCOS DIAZ LANZ, page4 SECRE; 11412166

US resident visa. March 3 -MDL still awaiting visa. Consul
request immediate action. MDL feels he was "milked for
information" by US intelligence agencies then tossed aside.
Station Mexico case officer)met Diaz. on 3/3 by chance and
expressed sympathy. . Suggests resolution problem as MDL
“souring" on US.

-- Cbl IN 30794 From Mex City 1/19/60

CO met MDL 1/18 where he registered as Carlos Garcia. MDL

flew Mexi from Guat true name. Meeting between MDL and Ydigoras
scheduled for 12/29, day of arrival. Ydigoras out of town.

Had told{Karnley}that he wanted to move anti-Castro acitivites
out of US - purpose for visit.

-- 4/7/60 FBI doc - Marcos said printing of pamphlets for 10/21/59 raid
on Havana done w/ priniting press at residence of Fiorini

THIRD AGENCY DELETIONS:

en ayes Secret MDL 105-80115 Wash
11/18/74 MDL 105-1962 Miami
11/5/74 MOL 105-80115 Wash
2/25/63 POL 105-1598 Miami
10/30/62 POL "
7/5/62 Sturgis Miami
6/30/62 MOL 105-1962 7
3/29/60 Secret MOL " "
12/30/59 MOL " :
STATE: ’s
3/4/60 Confidential MDL J “#2108 ~— Mexico City
3/3/60" MDL i 1967 Wash
3/2/60 Off. use only MDL 2093 Mexico City

SECRET


MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

SECRET

f=p)
na

LOOSE DOCUMENTS: qiiiet

Nothing of interest
DCD DOCUMENTS:
#A095041

-- Memo re conversation with A. Rorke by Jay Reeves 7/6/60
Rorke gave pitch for Diaz Lanz support
-- bl 11/21/60 — (Hipes84

Rorke called w/ info that 15 men led by Cdte Diego

will make crossing in 45 ft craft. Will be lightly armed.
Mission to coordinate anti-Castro groups. Rorke and Diego
suspect Fiorini and Diaz Lanz also members landing party

= Gufse7a 7/22/60

Rorke advised MDL, whom Rorke considers as best poss.
anti-castro leader, taken il].

Ramon Ruiz, active w/ anti-castro defectors, going

to Nicaragua, confident of establishing operational base in
Nicaragua.

-- (udesi 672/61

Proposed program of LIF (Liberty, equality & Fraternity) +
anti-castro org in Miami w/ DL brothers behind the scene.
