# 180-10142-10312

## Page 1

180-10142-10312

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Julis

19650

Мето

11110013

ARA - Gerso his fee

Box 24

Folders

Visit a Cuban Exite Victer EspinosA

At

regnet

SValmore A cevede

venezuelan

LIsTeR azued o mect

statement.

Espeniser

sunr

Opened BATISiR, opposes Castro

Much 13 miverent,

but close eary 1 at later, incide Cle

sent to labor pion to Buy f Pro

Blar

19050

person

ma reliable Cuban contacti

regnet

in turpe

ву 7

inosa went

ание

he the prence

lead come to Paris

вий

bill Cartes,

180-10142-10312

---

## Page 2

ве

овія н

Helier

11110014

bas Cutel

his Cuite.

грісер..)

me cookinction

with respite

Perfident thet

fight agent Cantro

en i Kikins centil

Chop his mort

at any thing

nted They.

W do to Lelp when the

wasted to

Gre da to what win

med te

chid, hat

miliable a Cuban

me time ago des

6 сві/ та 1, во

граж

a tania white

Spa fire

My Called

---

## Page 3

Edward k. moss

OS

resue wizeiman

3/13/28

Os file

11110015

The moss file contains the following information and

documents:

• memo for the

Derniet of security Research staff

. 14 may 1973 in

which a memo dated 28 feb 1968 is referred.to. The referenced

memo states that "a verdal report from Dun & Bradstreet recognire

moss' long standing "mafia' connections. " moss' operatión

seems to be government contracts for the underworld and

probably surtaces mafia money in legitimate business actruitie

This meno also states that from 1950-53, moss was serving an

appointed position with the us bourt, first as an Assistant

Administratur in Charge et Rublic Information, National Production

Authorityj and then with the Defense production Administratia

both with the Dept. of Commerce.

a- Who's who in America- entry tur moss.

3- Dun & Bradstreet report dated Sept, 27, 1968

• On June 1, 1960

moss merged his actrortes with Howard Chare Associates, Inc.

moss was also Pres. of a wholly owned subsidiary, chase &

moss, Inc, wash. D.C. June 1,1961 parties agreed to demerge with

assets returneato respective owners. Setlement negotatend led

to litigation. In 1964-setlement was ettected. In 1965 moss

served as Asst Director, 080, with responsibilites to server

for public aftairs adusur to the white House Conterence on cluil

Rights.

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

- 2-

11110016

moss

@ A June 29, 1967 Dun & Bradstreet report states that muss

is a principal in General International, which is stated to be

an Italian corporation engaged as consultants in economic and

business area development, Eurone, Africa, & in Asia

@ A memo to the tole, dated April 1967 se moss. The last approval

granted by the offleat security for moss' use was "a covert

Security Approval dated 7 November 1962" to enable musi

use "by the political Group of the CAstaff."

s- memo, date 23 march 1965, states that ne

obtained

a covert security: approval in 1959 ana cA in 196a for

moss in the publiù relations fiela.

z- Nou Nou Political Action Group / Covert

Acton staff requests any objections to the use of the mass

as a public relations adussor.

project.

3.4

8-19 mar- 1959

memo frum DD of security reters to request

for CsA to permit moss use as an informant on the plens.

detou, te and

Program

the

is engaged

or of which he is knowledgeabia

inwhichhe

SLONET

---

## Page 5

mund

Joseph Ray merola

DOB

90c+ 1925

3/13/78

11110017

POB: Turtle Creek; penna.

The tile un Joseph merola contains the following information

and documents:

O memo dated as Jan 1974 re oftice of secupity files. States that

merola torst came to the Agency's een allention in 1961 wnen he

visited Justin f. Gleichauf who was then chiet of the miami

contact Division. merola sald he had into concerning a

Brazilian senator, a close friend and cuntidant of che Guevarra

It was telt that merola's reason for contacting the Agency was to

ascertain if the Agency would intervene with the Fed, court

to rescina the as mile travel restriction. He was intormed

that the Agency could be us no assistance, Mr. Merola allo

sald be had been engaged in gunrunning in behalf of castro

during the revolt against Batista and had been received warmly

- by castro & Camilo: Cienfuegos, merola again contacted

the Agency on au nou 197a

intor ming that he was guing to jail

tur

one year.

No further contact with merola.

A Feb 15, 1964 cable from miami reports that 3 peuple have

been arrested for theft a dynamite d illegal possession of

explosives. Carming that they stole the dynamite on behalf of

merola, a cIA agent. "merola is not a cIA agent but wech

soley as an informant by IMPALm."

SOMET

---

## Page 6

-2-

SECRET

merola

11110013

3- memo of visit to merola

, dated 8 Fed 1961, reports

Brazilian senator story, merola sala that sam kay, one uf his

associates in the Latin American contraband business, told him.

that the senatur was interested in developing a project whereby

large quantities of whiskey would be smuggled into Brazil.

Contacts in cuba with castro.) the was also in contact with

colonel:"Junnnie" Abbes, head of the puminican secret poli

"merola also indicated that he is very well acquainted with

Antonio de varond head of the fed, and set that he would be

able to provide detinite assistance to the Frente should he

be called upon: He has a 63" boat available which he would

not be adverse

to "landing" to his friends. "

SCORET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Leslie wizelman

3/13/28

11110010

Tasua

The tile cortains the following information a documents:

B miami Herald article, dated al oct 1969, reported the

arrest of 3 men, Eduardo Whitehouse, Jose Roberto Silvera

ana Hector Silvera for receiving& cuncealing stolen property after

they tried to sell?

100,000 worth of stolen

¡saneraft radio equipmer

@Background info- DOB - 14 march 1979

PUB: Cuba.

Arrived in Us at Port Everglades, Fla, on 10 April 1959. Left UiS. an

8 April 1961, arrived us again on a sept 1961 at New workcity.

Issued de-Entry permit in march'laba for travel to cungo. us.

cungressman Dante Fascell introduced a bill in congress in June 1963

"to restore uis. citizenship".

to whitenouse; that subject took part in

"Bay of pigs invasion", that he contracted in l961 to "fly for the

United Natoro in the congro"

He was associated with

Liberal

Party in Cuba 1937-59. Recerued Re-Entry Permit in Dec 1963 fur

travel to mexiio. INs File # A- 11 241 940. Whitehoe was

represented by Attorney munroe Gelb, on march 5, 1962

Re-entry permit, unitehouse

listed his employer a LiB. Smith

Aircraft corpuration, miami, Fla.

In Feb 1964 - Whitehowe resided in miami

In June 1961-

in pallas (6141 Oramst.)

In 0c+ 196%

in miam.

Employment in tune 1964 was with RANSA airlines, mam.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

Stunti

11110020

3- A brographical data form lists employment as

July 1964- Present - North shore Villas, Public Relations.

Jan 1963- June 1964- Panauen Airlines, panama-

Operatiunsconsultant

soo+ 1943-Jan1954- cubana airlines -pilot.

1961-1963- Insurancesalesman

The abdue information is from an investigation conducted in the

fall

at 1964.

SEGMET

---

## Page 9

SECHET

summary

hestiè wizelman

3/13/78

11110022

¿dwara Browder

DOB : 22 June 1917

poB: Amarillo, Texas

The fle contains the following documents and infurmation:

Et ottire memorandum-1954 "Sabatino, Edward Brouder aka

Edward Browder ; US Gitizen wuing in mexico, Burn about 1912

Address: Hotel munte cassino, mexico city.

C memo fur chief, special security Drulsion, subj: National Ageni

name checks on Edwara Browder Sabatino- pBsucless, al may 1954

"In operational suppurt of project PBSuCLess, it is requested that

your oftice instate erioritynationel agency name check, with

special emphasis on into develuped frum Immigration ancl

Naturalzation and diept af state on one Edwara Browder

sabatino. "

O- memo, aated as may 1954, for deputy Chief SsD from Chief.

• Operations Branch

subj: Brouder.

"GIST : WH(PBsucCess) requests inturmation regarding sublect and.

Lauis sabatino..

BETAILS: la the subject y of interest to wH Division (PBsuccess)

and has requesed this uffice to conduct certain inquiries.

a- Becawe of the sensituity of this case, it,..

requested that the foles of the FoI becnecked through

mr. Papich, concerning the subject and Louls sabatino."

@ Couert Namecheck Report-as may 1954

3 Passpurt File Check

27 may 19511

SEGRET &

unidentihed document- "Thesubject case, whlle sthll pending

was cancelled by request

of: the chièf,operations, prosect pBsuccess."

---

