180-10740-10072 022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |
Toe Vora WRAY TATE BURKE, CALIF, EMARLES THO RAR,
oie Chmdve sen t, Ovoey Cone Bae ee rm men, Bop &
_ Revo a sien ieee Select ommittee oi, Assassinations
cyte 1 momenta, Boca, Pat 1 : FIO
(G02) 225-4528 U.S. Bouse of Representatives

3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515 AQ G

March 2, 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circumstances
surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select Committee
on Assassinations requests access to all files and index refer-
ences pertaining to the following individuals:

1) MAURICE BISHOP, aka JOHN BISHOP, JIM BISHOP, and FNU
FIRGAULT. This name is most likely an alias and this
N R individual's true name is not known to the Committee.
Bishop was working in anti-Castro operations in the
early 1960s. He was also allegedly involved in a plot
to assassinate Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971 with An-.
tonio Veciana and Luis Posada.

Me yca ink 2) WIROGUE - CIA agent involved in the ZRRIFLE program.
Further identifying information on the following individuals
will be given orally, pursuant to an agreement between Bob Genzman :
of our staff and Roger Gabrielson of your staff. i
Bet 3) GEORGE BREEN - 7e4-0

[ [4) ELEANOR BREEN ~ fc

Ret 5) WILLIAM V. BROE — Araro.

JIM DELANEY .

JERRY FOX’ - ?éa- Fee! ¢

Ea (deta
ROBERT S. nasutmal foe om .

CHESTER rr]. i

n

ELWOOD D. (Pete) MARTIN Md, .~ ee até



cay

meee ~ co
. (da Aik | Boe
Mr. Patrick Carpentier

March 2, 1978

Page 2

hay {pos oven J i 3 we cae
< yas 12) FREDERTCK RANDALL - Ping v - os : reins yotaoree 7 -
ae) SACK RANDALL od, « theee 6DVID0 - 2¥Mer
“a4) KAN TAKAI =?

25) DORIS WATANABE ? tans

he) MARRY WATANABE J Tae?
aT Ae.

pe ede = 1907 ~ Mom

4

Hes 17) [ax woons ]-we

/18) [LOUISF woons
pesigntd ) C: Wi Ds] ‘
GAC — pet.19). PEYE WHEELER ‘ie

wt 20) SBIZUO YAMADA “7 #

Whether or not any of the individuals listed below had
any relationship with the CIA, they may believe that actions
they have taken were at the direction of responsible persons.
in the Central Intelligence Agency. Accordingly, in order for
the Select Committee to obtain truthful statements and ulti-
mately testimony from these individuals, it would be most use-
ful for the Committee to have a letter from your office re~
leasing these persons of any obligations of secrecy they may
have made to the CIA, or to anyone whom these individuals may
believe was affiliated with the CIA.

&t - Anne Goodpasture - Tem. - pre G

fel-David Phillips - ae sabe TY
=ficber Shaw A-ge_-T@ - « aaa age / tec
wlRobert Zambernardif 7D + ence - Rt rwed — ter

illiam Bright: 7 a
e|Herbert Manell dda Breed
Barbara Manellf ®& ‘

et, {Allen White
gi. Ridard Helms 7%
tet, Tames Angelton ?
&é, Raymond Rocca owe Gem
Re? E. Howard Hunt ?
wee. Thomas Karamessines - ¥4 - ad Aw

amon~Joseph Alvarez Durant
vet\ Jack Whitten] vices freee epered
RiCharlotte Bustos ]va. owed A pred



Tir. Patrick c. -peutier
March 2, 1978
Page 3

%4- Joseph Burkholder Smith -7/+-
yk Rudy Bruno * .
QerfCharles Flig tugs t aor coed
wah Dan Vogel TP. » ve gel F fee
thur Dooley

Gulianiey J. Leibeler !

Ag Howard P. Willins ?

AeW. David Slawson

7 William Coleman 7

* Samuel Stern : )
Ae eeorge Frederick Munro /Ay<* ob
vqJ+ Deering Davidson -— Qouvelteu Kd,

PFloryan Randolph Karty
N@Oliver N. Primack
Finally, this letter serves as written confirmation of
an oral request by staff researcher Dan Hardway for:

1)

and logs of any operations jdirected at “the Soviet
“and Cuban Embassies for the period of 9/26/63 to
to 10/3/63, in Mexico City.

and’ toge of any suratiofafalrestad at ne sevice

2) Any 201 files pertaining to FNU Nunez Portuondo. ?
Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director
GRB: jhd

