# 180-10142-10221

## Page 1

180-10142-10221

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box 23

FOLDER 24

#9

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

Manuel, Ray Riesa

Bay as born in Cult in 1924. 1 to 2

of his ortetarding perparmance as a levil

Enginees he was granted a acholarchip ca 1947

CIA

complite his work for a Masters Legue, (Olid)

He held various positions in the engineering

field, one of which inched was Prozest manager

for the conchuction of the Havana Hilton Hotel, (Obid.)

In May 195) he arganized the Civic Peristauce

Movement which supered sabotage i acte

of terrorism against tie Batista regenie. Chis

Sidel lactro appointed him Minister of Fullie

Works in Yelisualy 1959) (Plid) Ske

Bilu

has he 1959 he was assented in rehewed of

his pretion IF Borelation Stily, Ray file, to 92-4546,

dec. 1, HSCA 005990, PRIT Bay devested Castro

hecause of his communist connections (skid

Se founded the movimento Resolicionatio del

Puello (MRP) in 1960, serving as its Chief

; tems)

NOY

Military Vitelligence Matters; and Rogeli linerso,

Chisk f MRP in Cuba. CCIA/DDO Ray Vol III

On the summer of 1960, Ray was bang

10142-10221

---

## Page 2

Quet-# Another CIA Officer, who met privately with

pay.

in how 1960, stated that his

political porture was doubtful as dan as 4.5.

goverment acceplance is

concerned. (CIA/DDO-RayUbLIII,

Cable I Director

froze MASH, 1117/60)

actevely recruited by the CIA IT become a

mender of the FRD

being made thrange Raul a Ce100

Ray Loh I) Rays background was

questioned by the State Department (CIA/DDO RayUlI

Tems to WH/4 Chief from Cecting Chief, WH. 27 Sept 1960,

Select: Slate approval 8 Ducude Manual Ray Rivass

into the FRD Comply) I and ly the miami

C/A office (CIA/DDO Ray VOLI, Cable from MASH 8

WH9, Sept 29, 1960) but he was granted

Provisional Oberational Approval by the erA on

250et 1960 (CIA/DDO Ray VoL 1 - POA form:

This personned papers contain the following

arcosment: "Subyect has definite political action

potential, is a pro-democratic official of goverment

who is not in sympathy with acise of intenstional

Communiom and who is interested in chengthering

tie letueen Cubax U5." (CIA/ODO Ray VOLI, (PRQ

Part 2) Sec.Ii)

Not everyone in the CIA who had

dealings with Ray were in agseement with

this accessment: In a Memo for Record dated

1121/60, it was repostedthat,

"...Ray did not

Snother later

meno for Record states that Ray's i to of actions

all seemed directed toward making him the future

---

## Page 3

posses in Cuba rather than oderthrowing Cartro

(CIA/DO Ray UL II,! Memo fou Record, 2 June 1961,

биву: Relations / Manolo Ray Y tie KIRP from (James A.Mbe/)

The mend freither pointed out that it was

helened Ray was so fas "left" in his thinking

that he would he as dangerous cor mos no in the

long sun) to. US. interesto as Castro, if he ever

got to be a porer in Cuha. (Did i Bayes

subsited a detailed clady of a general propon

O attain the liberation of Cula shore general

theres stated that the Mel hellened the best way

I represent the cine of

the baba pagple

is offered ly the democratic left SCIAtoDO

Ray Vol. V1, 9 June 1961, general progrow study)

Bay made his political portion very.

car during a private meting with that a

CIA officent on Now.15.1960 (CIA/DDO Ray UP II,

Cable To Dciector from MASH) Ie said the MRP

did not wish I reinstale the 1940 Cuban

Constitution and that the Cartro laws passed aT

the hang to s hang a l ten c

informed the CIA office this he beliered

the stale should regulate prevate investinente

and utilties should he national

Charges of "Fidelimo without Sides Jeal. (Shid)

were made

against Ray MRP. (C/A/D00 Ray IL II, Contact report.

from (allace a. Pastet) 0/1/60, Sely: Testig w Juan Estaug

---

## Page 4

negative

The CIA received, information about Ray from

prominent epile of Cubans. Ray was descited t

epile us highly dangerous hecauce of his amlition

i restrained aud

When which someone else Was 38)

Is play a prominent role in the Celow Goussment

after Caris onesthrow. (CrA/S00 Rag VL II, Memo for

Record-John D. Petera, 118/60, Sulj: Contact report ou

Meeting with Kogeliagonzalz). Maro Cardona

was opposed of Bay, keliving his program was too

Inarpist (CA/DDO Ray, UoL III, Suformation Report hom

4.5. eitzen, free.lance writer. past time sugar broker,

12/22/60) and alto scid Rays was bitterly

members

- Literer wl honols Ray Reias,

anti-American as well as probably totalitarian

in his thenking. score

SoCIAl 000 Ray VoL II, Memo to S-Brie

from ARA,

March 16,461, Suely. Pacent Chaw Deselopments)

Manuel artime adraid that the IRP Rays group,

MRP, was opposed to banning the Communist Farty

and in favor of "nationalizing everytheig" (C1A/000

CRe because he

Kay VoL It Cable to Bell from IMWAVE, Marco 1, 1961)

the epiles.

Wit although awase of his!

controversial stands,

te a Dete Day lot to join the es he

Cable to Derector from

MASH, 1/17/60) Kay was described a "a

natural leader of highest intellect, deepest cincerity

and conviction." by his recrister (Obid)

7 Day recessa full operational approval as a

political asset on 1 Jeb.1961 (CIA/SpO Ray VOLII)

renning

and accepted appointment o the CRC

r 27 March

1961 (CIA/DDO Ray VOLIK, Memo dor Record, 22 Mar 1961

by Gerald Dielle, Sulj: Ray Accept apportient to Counil.-.;

---

## Page 5

maestigators

- Americans,

that entran

HOMO

Packey, opposed him

bery ricarol using in to S

Wethin a week, Bay met with a CIA fficer

and complained that is was hacking away

from his commitments I was not willing o

gie Ray any voice in the Councel, (CIA/000 Ray Use v,

Cable pomE MAVE fate Bel, apr. 4, 1961) Bay

withdrew from the

crep shortly after the Bay of

Pip invation and requested the cit Io give hem

upport independent

The that organization. (C14/DDO Ray

Vol. II, eno for Record, 2 June 1961, tely. Relations wel manole

Rayo the MRP, signed

Jamas A. Noel))

In Octole 8f1961,

the Puerto Rican Planning

I Board announced that Ray had accepted an profion

as conenttant & that board I would he reading in

P.R. CCCA/DDs Ray Uol. II, Tremo for Chief WH Nevision,

100et 1961 fo. (raven 5. Yauger), Suly: Jeneral- Chan Matters;

spicific -Manuel (marlo) Ray) Say was looked

upon with great favor hy the Puerto Rican government.

(CIA/ODO VolIII, Calle did z July 1962 % Derictor from (San Jian)

Manuel Ray became actuely engaged in

recruitment of Caitro defector in the summer of

1962. (CIA/0D0 Kay Vol III, Care Late d 25 July 1962)

His efforts were directed toward the Culow Ambarrador

23 dug 1962) me audi Cuban officiall i Parie anal

Brunele CCIA/DDO, Ray file Vil I Calle & Distor (from

Pares 19 June 1963,

# 11272), Gile reven dailed o

cocertain if any of his endeavors

were fritful,

---

## Page 6

In the to months preceding the ass scination

3. JFK, Kay was travelle

Honduras is t

ashi in Bet Came Tet 240

Report Ild ,Det, 963) A Costa Rica (CiA in late Sept 1943

CerA/ DD0 Ray Vol. SI Deipatel I Chif/WHD from (es/Panama)

did 300r42), and Venezuela in Stole (C1A/000 Ray Vil E,

Memo for Record 20ct 1963, fr. Alfonzo Rodriguez) leusting

his full time to JURE (CiA/DDO Ray VOl IT, Drap,

did 4Det 63 by Rodruguez, Suly: Manuel Ray Rivers)

On how. I, he met with a CIA agent out ow

St. Thomas Deland I deceas JURE plans o

legin operations incide Cuba by the end of

Kulj: Meeting co/Ray in ST. thomas, 31 det e 8a80 (how 1963)

JURE was I le involved in au infilhation

plow, known as Geration Rola, (C1A/000 Ray VOLIT, Cable

DIMLAVE fu Director All 3 Dee 1468) I consence when

the CIA Cached materials for JURE On 25 how. (C/A/ADO

Ray VoL IT, Cable 20 JMWAVE fi. Quis: 3 Dec196: 18 hou 1963),

Bay told HSCA evacatigalous that he was in Caracas

on Noo. 22,1963 with Rogelio Cienesos and could not

recall the dates the CIA/SURE operation was I

have taken place. (HSCA# 09at" Juler

ship cailed to peck up the lacked matercals ow 25 how.

1963 and Ray.

patalino full explanation for heis this

Sailure (CIA/Ds0 Ray Vol.IT, memo for

Record: 13 Dee 1963,

hom calfonio Rodriguzz)

---

## Page 7

Ive prit of 1964, and was received this the

Wit division at the CIA that Ray had been

closely associated with a known Presto Rian

communist, ad Is was friendly with Quests Rican

Who were working on the sonovation of the White our

o the group that tried I crossinate Treman. G

(hote: Truman readed at Blai House during the

renovation of the White House i assassination

attempt was made, at Blair House -date?)

(CIA/DDO, Ray-Groorted documente- Dispatch I Deputy Clies,

WH/SA from Chef of Stalin, SMANE, tal 14 Cpr. 1964 la epico, AF)

the souce of this information was refersed I

by cryptonym and when HSCA researcher arked? for

the identity of the individual, word was received

that he was a "Current

acet" of the CIA no his

identity could not he revealed, This information

was disseminated to the

secret Service (HSCA 008290,.

Menis - Set devica Admintative Profile, 3122/25 on

Manuel Ray River, Care # C02 9315, July, t50311) and

the FBI (H5C17 006468, Item 5, 8.1, FBI # 92-4546,

memo from flew Juan (SetREt) did

GeT, 2,1964. ReiJURE)

Gay' premary artuitics the fust half of

1964 envolved infiltration plane

into Cuba aud

are dieured in the JURE section. The faluse

of the attempt brought Rays prectige o a toss

near abolite low point among the Claw epiles

(CLA/ODO Ray Voh XV, Cable 8 Duector Frons SMWAVE, 6/10164.)

On aw effort I enable JURE o move its uctertier

frow U.S. territory, the CIA made a final payment

---

## Page 8

To hays group $ $15,000 for the period of, Get -31 dee

.1964.CC/A/DDO Ray Voh XVII, Autonomous Operations -

Operating Plaw.)

---

