# 180-10141-10497

## Page 1

180-10141-10497

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Introduction

JFK 20

Folder 7

mains heading:

ISSUE I:

CuBAN

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

COnspiRACy

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENE

AS SANITIZED

The attempts of the

tented Itale

ASSASSInate

gorenment to arrarinate. Cutens premier

Fidel Caste as unel as ather foreign

beaders during the tentalent decade.

of the 1960's shocked and disguated

the American Citizens: When socces

disclosed that the that forment

Central Intellyere Aguey (hereafter' CIA")

intentionally.

solicited and receired

the acriitance of various members if

organized cume, La Cosa Nostra,

the furtherance of

rich plots,

more outrage prevailed. lintized

society simply did not and does not

endone such acts as a legitimate

10747-10497

---

## Page 2

-2-

instrument. gforeen policy.

There

is no excuse efferen

deso" Actions

did

rationalmation.

with

iNvoKing

the disdain of the American

public and word tested there

stop,

assarsination attemph gaze birth te

the hacinting theory that Fided Cartne

orchestented

the arrassation oy President

defensive

John F. Kennedy in is retaliation for

the plats an his life.

An its Final Report

publiched on in april, 1976, the

senate telect Committe

to

study Governmental Operations

with Respet to Intelligince

Acterities (hereinatter "sse") responded to ltes

theong

---

## Page 3

thin

Report

The SSe

focused

apecations of "CIA"

We Cential Sntillynce Agineys which

provoked

may has

$ Castro, into retaliation. Firt,

the sc documented the

jount sport of the t

and

eliminate

Organyed Crime

to

reund, the SSC examined the

Castro.

nature and extent of the a CiA

AMLASH operation.

The

concluded its

snalysis

550

with the statemut that

---

## Page 4

-4

"It The Connethe beleines lia

investigation shoued continue i.

antan

avens, and for that rasan doer not reach

any final coclusions.

11

sashapes analyis

swatten to male

such conclusions.

the remainder of this materal

It is not te

perspose of

to minutely revieir

the detach of the CHA-mafia plots on of

the AMLASHt operation,

purpose to

all of

resolves the conflicting

reupiing of the SSc and the Cry in wan

variois

anyone to

Assts moral tongue-lashing

to the importance of the opecations,

prateed,

the matural i cero to

prese

---

## Page 5

5-

AMLASH and of the

CIA operation.

a ..

comprehensise. reviceo

unolrement or potented

involvement.

af organized crime ni the CIA operations

againt Castro during 1960-1963.

From

this renew cutain influences and

conclusions are them drawn

concerning the nature, scope, and

rampuations of these

opecations.

---

## Page 6

-6-

Relevant

BACKgRound MATERIAL - TELE

summary

A CIA - mAFia PLots

The genesis of the utilization of

the United dates criminal syndicate

by the CIA to altempt to ars arsinale

Castro is placed by the 1967 Report of

the Impector General as accing during

a coreration bettrees the Deputy

Ducter of Plan, Richard Bissell, and

the Ductor of decurity,

Colonel

Sheffield Eduardo 1s

There plats extended fum 1960 untit

early 1963 and can be divided

tho

into

estages.

The funt cage

occured from augent, 1960 unet

---

## Page 7

amil, 1961, and can best be

Phase Ion

tumed as. " the pre- Bay of Pige

period. D From.

april, 1961 untel

late 1961 the

C1A.. takes to

position that the plats were dormont.!

Do late 1961 the CIA decided to

CIA-mAsca, the creating Phans II,

renew the A plots

and Kept them

Active untel Cate 1962 or laily 1963.

During the initial stages of

Phase I Edwards astigned the

proper

specific took of locating the proper

permo to assassinate Castio to

jamie. "Bis fim" O'Connell, whe wist

Cheep of the Opecational Support

"Division of the Office of Security. O

Both men apeed that O'Connell should

---

## Page 8

-7-

contact

malest

Robert A.. Makes, whom the CIA

had painsus

used is serial coret.

operations

to

renuit.

te necesary

personnels

Ceo mateu runequently entailed!

Roselli,

who in lawn!

recruited

two. persons initrally.

knoum to

O'Connell as. "Som Goio" and "Joe

along with Maheu

O'Connell saup he 1 later

decorred the

the identites of these peons a to be

tam. granara and

santo Trafficante,

ripectindy.

lifte meeting too serval times

in. Miami and deceding upon porson

pills as the method of an arsenatin, the

1967 I6 repent contends what

---

## Page 9

- 8-

Trifficante made the arrangemends for

that the assannation of Castro with are

of his contacts inside Cuba on one

of the trips the allegedly doesnig

made. to Harara, Cuta.D This embect

was Juan Orta, a Cutan Official

un hild a position clou to Castro.

1967

The " I G Report then statt, that

Roselli passed the pills to Trafficant?

loseli subsequently told O'Conned

What the pills see delist to Ora

is Cuba! Ore apparently retained

the pulls for a few wacks and ther

retuned them since he mas walle

it.

to fulfill any plan.? Orto was

no longer in a position to kill

---

## Page 10

_9-

Castio because. he had lost

his Cuhan

post D

With Orta unable to perform..

syndicate looked clsewhere.

Roselli

next told O'Connell, sometime during exily

1961, that

Trappicante Knew a maw

promenent in te Cakan Cule

morement

Job - DR.

who could accomplich the phil Dr.

Дл.

Manuel antonio de Verona y Loredo. D

Get recening

appoval. Trafficante

approached Verma about anarsinating

Castro and reparted that Verona

uns receptive.

• The 1967. I E Report

state that O'Connell oyain dis hibited pills

which eventually reached Vecona.!

This actindy endeded

---

## Page 11

-10=

the pre-Bay of Reap please of the plots.

The 1967 ItR does not document

axy attempt to actually admenister.

pille. to. Castio.

The 1967. FOR rate wait

apparent

Bissell

after a perad of dormancy

Busiel

in approvalely November of 1961

drected william Harry" to reactivate

the cra-mojia plot. O'Connell

therefore introduced Harry to Rosell: 4

Deering tus phace the CIA

dended ajaiss

May Giancana on Traffiante;,

intend, a seim referred to

as "тассо" entued the

plot as the

persm nho would ' provide

Cuban contracts.

Is addition, the peat stell wilyed

He sences of antonio de Verona!

---

## Page 12

=11-

plots

Even though the

по!

enger

included Trappicate and Giancana.:

che CiA cret

adme

thed. Was

loscelli most letely Kept them informed.

The ClA noted in the

11967 IGR that

Lift noved be noise to assume that

roselle did not take the precaution of

informing hyde reps in the syndicate

territory

thet he wan holly an a biscory

cradered to be the prenate dundin

simeon else is the syndicate.

Ia fume of 1962 Roselli reported

that

to stonery has Verma despatched

a chue man leam into Cuba

with ite

general asseument of recruiting alkas

to Kill

Castro, and, If the opportunit

---

## Page 13

-12-

arose,. to kill him thomaels, mayhe through

september of 1962

The use of pills.

Roselli

7. reportel to

Harsey.ii

Miami that the ".

medicine"

WAs

reported in place, Wat thee thiee man'

tam was safe, and that. verona

was prepared to

dispatch and lo

lance man team to impillcate Castro's

bodyguard D

De December, dof 1962,

Roselli and Harvey aqued that not much

scened to he occuring and by o Febrary,

:1963, starvey timinated the plots?

---

## Page 14

-13.

8. The has Vegas Wiestap Incident.

The

1967 tripe IGR...

als

mentioned an erent that occured during

INSEA A

Phare I of

He Cra-mapia plotsA

Octoner 31, 1960, Las Vegas polici

arested Aucker; f. Balletli, an employee

of a Flouda: Investigator named Edurand

DuBois, for placing an electionic

bug in a hold room in hon hogis o

sateequent

misstigation

authorizied

determined that Pokut A.Mabeu

and possibly the wiretap

the scircillances of the subject invoted

and that maner probably acted

behalf of graveran, and the CIA

The violation of the wittep platele

---

## Page 15

nsertA

dissemnahen

the first

3. The has !.

when resulted

in

the delach of the plot to puses older

the operation.

involvil in

the ares

ther

used during

INse

On

CrA-mapia plotsa

•e 31, 1960, Las Vegas polici

arrested Arter f.Ballitli, an employe

of a Houda Inrestigator named Edurand

Du tria, for placingían eletioni

bug in a hold room in has hogss?

tateequent

misestigation

authoritied

ditermined that

Rokut A. mabeu

and possibly the wiretap

the sureillances of the subject involed

and that maker probably acted an

behalf of grameras and the CIA

the violations of the inhelp catale

---

## Page 16

-14-

placed the Care under

a fedual jindiction and

We FBI soon began! Investigation. sa

the course of this investigation

maheu

instituted

inforned. the. FBI that he

behalf.

the survillance t

efforts to

obtain Curan intelligence trough

the hoodlum dement,

including

An its

efforts to present

glancana

the prosecution of Balleti,

Mane, and antidin dual khoem as

J.W. Harrison, the CIA eventually

Justice Departmet

toed the El the detais of

Ppare I 08

the

CIA - mafia plots to Kill Castro.

This can bent he

related through

---

## Page 17

-IT-

We following memesandeen fran

fEdgar Hoovor. to Alloney General.

Ramsey Clark Equated i. part I. 64

Blank letterhead memonadem

3-6-67

то: Attorney General

From: Director, FBI

тор

Secret

Attonney General Robert Kennedy

indicated that a few dayo puor to

15-9-62) he had been adrised by the

Cit that Rokent A. Maker had her

hired by the CIA to approach

sam rancana with a proposition

pne $150,000 to hit gunmen

to go into Cuba and Hell Cartro.

He further stated this Cit admitted

haring assisted maker in making

We" bugging

" installation in

Lao Vegas.

which uncovered this

clandestine speration and for this

Mason did C/A could. not afford to

have any action taken against

Grancana on makeu., mis

Mir. Kennedy

slated that upon learning diA

had not cleared its action

in hering maker and Giancard.

wich the Department of jetce

---

## Page 18

-16-

he essied order that the CIA

should never again take such

steps unthout furt chelling

with. We Department of Justice.

ve. Kerady fucke admed boat

be very difficult. to inctiate axy

In some was the cmcerning

any action in might take

egainst maneu.

Polation in whis for any

he nght

become invoired.

summary,

the has leyas

wre

tap an

inveit

patin forepl

GIA

to

XIA-M

knowlege

the

in

plots

government

officials,

екінки

implicated

the

---

## Page 19

-17-

арістє

IN. summary,

the for Vegas uretap. as that il forced

dee... CIn to acnouledge the exutence

of the CrA- mafIA plots to

non-CIA

goremment offricials.c

- and provided.

OCCASION

manipulate

the finste

for participants to

the aperation do present prisecution.

fC. Robert Maheu and the Long Committer

The next mayer event ildated

70 le CIA-mapia plats occuned

in 1966 when

envolement mulh une CIA. to

---

## Page 20

-18-

INSeIt AFTER FOOTnOTE.. 35

The attorney for makeu, Edund Kicipant

magan, informed the Houe telet Committer

on Assassinations (hereinafter the "Committee")

bat makeu emtacted him during

che

Jale.of.1966

and paid he wa going to be

called before the Leng. Cannittee in

punction with the Morgan than investigation.

maher then informed morgan of the plots

and suggested that any testimany night

necessarly vercal his previous

coret

(35b

actintes with the CIA.

morgar then

antacted tenator Long and Laurence Houston,

Ine genecal Counsel to the CIA, to

apparently successful

retirate makeu's coceers

in an effort

any

to block proude

of we prazen.

35c

testimmy.

she use

oner statt that

kennet.

---

## Page 21

-19-

Roselli Cntacted Edwards who

surrequently spoke to the FBI

in regard to Roselli

The SSC report. that hoselle

agaun... contacted CIA sources in an

effort to thart prosecution

wher

losule. was auerted for fraudulent

gambling actinities at the Treas Clut

in Bercily Ills in 1967. O lovelle

cmtarted Harvey,

who

was по

lnge do a CLA employee, to represet

him@starvey subsequently.

allempted to explicene the ciA int

prenting the prosecution. "

The

Justile

Department

---

## Page 22

-20-

amvicted Roselli. for a violation of

tus cutestate gamblery law.

DeBut of the letaliation Theory

The genesis. of this theiry can

be alwrulel.. to an interice.

chas

Premii Castro held a deptanher 7, 1963

mich Associated Prero reporte Daniel

Hacker. I Vat interrei.. Castio

usined against the United States

"ardig. terroristo plane to eliminato

Curan leadurs." He state, according

to Hacker, that tiniled,

state

leaders. nould be is danger.

they. promoted any allempt to

eliminate the leader a Cuba.

- suitor James f. Rowky who in

ten

---

## Page 23

-21-

nolfeed ttu FBI.

Morgan

informed the Camittee.

that

Roselli intally approached him. complainers

since he had been insoled in the patriotic

/ Rosello also in formed toma

mangan

that Cartro

had retaliated 100

ПАТІМ

Besides

AFTER

receering

this

Kendly

information the FBI decided not to

further invertyate the allegation!

Fallouring the publication of te

Jail andera and Drew Pearson artichs of

march 3 and 7, 1967, hourver, where

thes

in theon of retaliation frist

gained public notorilty, Presedent Johnses

ordered the FBI to investigate ta

matter.

The FBI consequently

---

## Page 24

-22-

interrewed.Ediane morgan.an

maich 20, 1962 mozzar unporned Wr

FBI that he represented chents tat

wee resorel indiridual who entered, it

aprope that they undeuted to have

high goverrmental backing and which involed

We aracation of Fidel Cartro. merson

the stale that he chents had

unsm to suspect that Castro learned

of there plots and kelled Presidat Hennedy

in retaliatta

the

BE

Рлеи

nientegentin resulting.

phnsen

-acquiel a

a retaliation

pal wlas

and wheet

/telm

odes theCA

Report of

1461 Inspecto General befalo

---

## Page 25

-23-

The FBI invertigation sculled

in Presekut.. Johnson acquising a

permal intere in the retaliation theory

which prompted CIA sector Richard.

Helmo to pupare a report on the

assarsiation

plots.

SO RY.

F.. 1967

JER

On March 23, 1967 Director

Helms ordered the CIA Amputor

general to pupare a report an

the CIA assassination plots@This

report detailed the

accounts

of various CIA opecations against

Cuba a

CIA

of the

unchesin

ORgANIZeeRIme

an atalysis

plots and the

---

## Page 26

NOTE

-24-

IGR

AMLASH operation.... The

also

examined

the 1960 Las Vegas unretap

Oin uperene to the AmLISH opecatin the FoR

incident

weeks vlated

10 AMLASH ' actinities in

madred, Spoid in late 1964 and

earls 1965 where. AMLAsH WAs

neeting with Pranuel Artime! the

IGR further noted that Nafall

Garcia- Bango, a former

lawyes

per sAnto trappicante, uns in

madied, shaw is maich, 1965. Bongo

claimed to be in entret with dissedins

Cuban military leader, induding

AMLASH.

---

## Page 27

G.

-25-

Anderson Articles

on 1971,

anderson once again

published information promoting the

rtaliation theory in to articles

dated January 18 and 19, these acticker

estibiled more detact, relating that

serral assarsins, made it to a wooftop

before berry apprehendid

when shooter destame ey Castio, dat

tur exent acced in

Cale Jebruary or

early march, 1963,

at least condoned the

hat Robut Kennedy

CIA-mAFIA plots, carol

that Roselli delevered poison pill to be

used in. Kelly Cartro to a contact at

le Miami Beach Fountablen Hotel on

march 13,1961

this

in the proper

congle.

---

## Page 28

Roselli deportATION

2n.

682-26-

What Ande: formatio

additional

the

same year

released the plots,

1971, the CIA contacted

Ice Immigration and Naturalnation

service, Department of justice,

an attempt to present information

Giancara,

sam

Cairo,

plot to kill

on Cin operations. Juan being disclord

In the

event INs

brought

deportation proceedip aganist Roselli. D

ite Saterm

The SSC stated in

peleared in Norembes, 1975,

Report, that the deportation order

still

to death

is. June, 1975.

uns

in the

proces of being litiated in august,

colleague in

His

had been shot

1976, authorities discerered Roullis

his home

He butchered body stuffed

in anoid drum and floating in

meals Bicayne Bay. O

---

## Page 29

27-

I The Senate delect Conmiltce To Study

Goverenmental... Operations with respect t

Dabellegines Activities.

In connection with its

mandati

to inrestigate the full range of goversmental

intelligence activities the SSC

"ramined the papormane of the intelligin

agincies in conducting then

investigation

of the arassination and their

relationchip to the Warren. Cm mission.

11

la April, 1976, the SSC.-publiched

its Fial Repent (Book I) which in essence

faulted the CIA for its ton of

omission in not informing

CIA's

the Warren

Canmession of the

on-going

plots against the revolutimary

goverment in Cuba and its attempts on

---

## Page 30

-28-

the life of the premier, Fidel Castro.

afler reneury the delas of We cin-mons

plots the sSC staled that "Carto motarly

would. not has been cutain that the Cit

was behind the underworld atten ple" and

it would have been

Wat

do unlikely. that Cartro would

have dutingusted the Can plots with

axy

the underwould fian

telett sponsored by the Cuban

cle communily. and not

'affiliated in

any may with the C IA.

the SSC identified the

AMLASH

"operation, hoverer, as being "clearly

different" from the undecould plots.

63

---

## Page 31

-29-

The SSC stated that. # AMLASH wAs

in prospers. at the time of thie

as assination, coved clearly, be tacie.

to the CIA, and that orell

....

E AMLASH's proposal for

had been endonsed by the ClA

a coup, the initial slep being te

assarsination of Cartro.

The

SSC. cautined, howerer, that it sAw

No eridence that Fidel Castro on Other

in the Cuban govennment. plotted President

Kennedy's assassination is retabiation for

U.s. opcation afaint Cuba!"

As related is

ihe Introduction

to this

materiad the SSe did not

reach any conclusions because it

beliend. additional invalization needed to

---

## Page 32

- 30-

occur.

I. The CIA 1977 Inspector General RepoRt (IG).

stung by the smate citicism

and the ripiling effect that Book II

caused in the media.,

Che CIA prepared

..a comprehensin repoct in. 1977

designed to ansiver, at leant within

the CIA, the critical questions postulated

Even the

in the SSC Final report.

197 E6R C

лесозж

the

degracy of

CIAls

arrow

respinse

to.

the

warre

Cemnes

un's

quest

possible

relesan

inform

on

the

1977 I€

acknowledged

thir

in

the

following

---

## Page 33

- 38-

The 1977 IGR identified

Ates a

principal theme of book I as the

possibility that Carto retaliated against

the leniled states for attempt on his life and

Uat..

the CIA. Operations may hase

specqually caused any such action by

Сио" Ia respinding to this theiry tee

perform the follouring:

(lA decided to

1) to conduct a full review of

information ad operations en the

uhan target to identity any

activil that might ulate

to the

arsaiination of President Kinnedy, and

2) to revrew the porsiblity was

CIA actintes

agamit Cuba did,

by thai nature, canu Castro

to oder the avaisination

Precident Kennedy.

the

thoroyaly

delac of the 1977 IGR all

related in the matural becaus the

no sauce has premously pubely releared them.

---

## Page 34

-32-

1. Syndicate Operalin

Before analyzing. dee AMLASH.

operations the ciA funt waled new

colderations putteniny.. to. the sendicato

operations.

Winette Tennes to

of acted appening i like New Youl

Daily. News in april,

1975.

then artils

4. In

to meskill decuted how

Fraall Fiscini, now Known as Sturgis,

allegedly, recruited marie tong

to spy on Castro 2i how Sturgin knew

planned tous him ins

fear orca and lied fatte in scheming to

back the a banking attempt assassination

of Castro,

tiger claimed merrill stret,

---

## Page 35

5-33=

assuited that Sturgis Clarmed he had

ben a hued escaten for the Cit for

at leant a decade and that Stugh

was in touch unit all the casino

operators in I tarana during the

pened of the Canto taleorer.!I fo

audlice articl on fune 13, 1976, melkill

related the claim of marie. Lorry Loreny

that in loe fall of 1960

Frank Surgis,

acting for the 1A, gave her two capsules

I poison powder which she was to sprenkle

<195

in some food on drink of Cartes.

The reten of the 1977 IGR

were quite concerned with thin

assutions becaus arta's name

no beeped in conction erich

---

## Page 36

1-34-

Carto anarsinatin plot before

the settle d

of te Cis-onganged came plots and thes

assipement do possa Cartno giser to the

clee to Cartho who may have weired Kickbacks

firm the gambling intes! the possebility that

Arta uns involved in seen en

than

plots old that the

Cnt operation

go also cechaited

be attentio of the CID.

sturis'allegation

that he had been a hired opecatin for the CIA

feradecade the 1971 IGR asseted theat

he was in contret with some of the ClA Caban

employer. in ta meami aver, but had no

dict relationships nich. the Ageney

the

recopeyes. that Sturgis,

---

## Page 37

through

trough his gambling activites and relationships

with various casino astrotter ouncs,

a may quite porsebly have known

Orta, and too allo raises the questeri

o whether Mings may have ben a source

o inpormation to Curto regarding Ortolo

parcepatio in au arracenaton plot.

In reference to the horny- stuge

passm pill

plot the 1977 IbR noted

details in lou

the similarly of their plot to the'

18

October 1960

---

## Page 38

=36=

of.

jar.

beca

use the p

FOR

ther

The plan allegaly invol

oison pillo

cmcealed in a

the

the plan failed

ils dissols

the

metims the October 18, 1968)

FBI

the

sarstrat

Castio

his pie

inowledge of a plot to assassinate: Casto

incoffing a norfan.

who

would chop

pill some dunt or food of actio

the CiA concheded that; thes October

date is too early, for the CIA

therefore

sundicate opecations and that"

one

syndicate may

have been acting

independently

---

## Page 39

-Зва-

The CIA aldo chiluded that

Antonco de Verona

the.. Cuban excle

leader active in the sipadicate operations,

may hare already been active in plots

with the mafia when the CIA approached

him.

as support. Frit, a 21 December 1960 memorandum

pertaining to underworld support for

some Cubans, and second, a 18 January

1961 memorandum relating an unconfirmed

report that Verona Was one of

the Cubans riceivery support. E

he cin a further almouted

wat although

with the mapia was

the operation

suspended

aple

the Bey of Pigs it appeared to

---

## Page 40

-37a"

alill be in progers when re-activated

84

ww. April, 1962.

The.

IGR.summmareyed.i

sponsored

position. concuring.non c1s" sipdical

operations in the following passafe:

It is possible that CIA simply found

delf involred in providing additine?

resources for independent opedions

tat the sipdreats already had

underway... LOIn a sence CLA

may have been piggy-backing

on he sipdicate

and in additior

to its malina: colitutios was

allo supplying

an aura 8

afficial scention @

2. AMLASH

The IGR states. the ssc

was possibly

sugguts that AMLASH

so a Cacro agent assigned a provocation

mission which nould then justify

---

## Page 41

37-

relatiation, or, u the alternalise, that

AMLBS4) ins a security risk

throsys

which detacs of the plotting. may hare

suyared to Cactro tres providing

Ctu

additunally

Tower

AMLASH should hare. been

reported to the Warren Commission!

contends

The IGR

nether: theory is

conect

slating

that the relatinship between

Uve

CIA and AMLASH if for the dealt

of President Kennedy was so

'incitistantial and inconclusis that

it provided no basis ti

for AMLASH/,

to fee that he had any tangible

CIA support for plotting against

---

## Page 42

From august 29, 1962 untel

septembar, 1963

the C1A

- stale,

Red not hone any

contact with Amerash.

-38-

Cactio,

In support the IGR proceeds to

narrate the Ageney's linderstanding of

the operation. On Auguet 17,1962,

the case afficer for AMLISH. reporte

was he "Thas no intention If giving

AMLASH/I phiyaical elimination

mission as regiment tut

recognize thes

somelhig

he could on migut try to carry

out an his own titiative.

Headquarter replied the nest day, " Strongly

cme that no physical

elimination miscis

be given

AMLASH/,.

On September 7,, 963 the CIA

recend the fallowing cable:

---

## Page 43

-39-

AMLASt call feels there. only

two ways accomplich change ither

inside job or nisasion he realistic

enough to realize latter out of

quertion..... Eco Accordiny.. AMWHIP,

AMLASH sill dirailing

fer

US

rescal plan of action.

The IGR notes that the SSC

interpreted

"Inside job" as repersy to an speratios

agaunt Cartro;" the CIA, hoirerer, selp

it refers to a goneral commitment

eneming how to effect change.

the

IGR alo stales that at thee porn't

Book II the say"' charactigation of

Has phase of the AMLASH specations is

"de prited.' "Is

The CiA cotends that

any dispute only exists in the

eyes of the sSC.

The IGR nest comments

---

## Page 44

- 46-

on an interview of Castro ky AP

reporter Daniel Harker. in which

Castro said that anti-castro terroresto

had the support of M.S. leadus! the

Ibe stales that the 5s Book I

umplies that AmLASH may here

reported to Castro what the ssc

characlouzed as assarsination plots. I

The CI4 response is Chat "Castro's

remacks at that time could not hase

steamed fim anything sard to AMLASH,

by clA officers as they proposed nothing

and undertook nothing.

"

On

Octorer 11, 1963

the

care office called headquarters and

said that AMLASH, claimed to hare

---

## Page 45

- 41-

ike necessary people. and exeupment.

to ovetkrow Castro inthout tot

100

Mis. assistance

On. Octole 29,1963

Desmand Fitzgecald met. AMLASH/,

... iN PARiS

101

At the meeting the CIA naintain

stepa Chal Sitzguald rejected AMLISts

requet for an assars assas weapon,

specipically, a high pouced litte

mih a tellcopic lens. C02

The

CIA entends hat at this point it

was clean that AMLASH was informed

that there would be no M. S. assistance

und after the fact which is corary

to the SSC statement in Book II

to the effect that it was uncertaes

how AMLASt interpreted the put off

---

## Page 46

The

meeting occured on Niembe 22

-42-

by Fitzgerald.

On Normber 19, 196.3., Fitzgerald

approved informing AMLASH/,. that

he would th girch a cache inside

Cut and that a high-poisered

rile with a scope would he

included upon requeit. 04 on

ON

November 20 AlSt the case affeci

informed AMLAst that he was would

1105

be receiing the meeting he requested

summarzed the

The IGRA

regnpuane of there contacts wich

AmLAsH as wlated to the cantentions

1n BooK It is the following

passage:

---

## Page 47

tRo.

- 43-

Whatever the relatonship with AMLAsH,

follouing the death of President Kennedy,

there is every indication that

during prendent Kennedy's life

AMLASH/, had no basis for beleerio

What he had ClA seeppat for

much of anything. Were he a

provocateur reporting to Castio,

r. he was merel

careless;

and leaked what the knew, he

had no factual basis for

eat, areat gary actual

Enally Des in reply to the sse

allegation that the CIA sat inadeguatily

responded to the Warren Commission's

request for all possible relerant

information, the IG Roksured:

---

## Page 48

-44-

While are can underland today why that!

Warren Carmission limited it engilery

to normal arenues i inventiation, It

a broader vew of the matter. CIH, too,

not sun

half adds.

could has cisedied. in. specpickom.

What mort saw in ginal teems -- the

positility of Sorret on. Cuban inrotrement

in the anaisiatio (JFK) becaure if

tensions of the lame... The a Agency

should have taken

broader initiatives,

then, as well. " E

к. Rehana

Recent Anderm Articles

September 1976

and October, 1978,

Andes on again. putlished artile

Which o

tre

propounded du

retaliation theor

In addition,

time anderm puttily verealed that

Jolin Roselli sensed as his souce.

in all of the anticks.

for the retaliation theory prited though the years.

that the years.

---

## Page 49

- 44а-

арренину.

components

septemher 7,.1926 articte

in the Washingtm Past contacies all

I tretaliation teary, This

elata:

THE MISHINGTON POET

Turala, Geniemine: 12:6 (19

Pruden

Jach Anderson and Les Whitten

Behind John F. Kennedy's Murder

Ma!:a

trinster

John

Roselli

bate a 2 sea 20627

They

were under the loose control

of

Florida's

Mafia

chieftan,

Kenned: assassiant dith him to his

Santos

Trafficante.

murdered a

His gainbling enterprises

in Havana had been ciosed down hi

hacked un body

wide el drum and dumped

Castro after the 1959 revolution.

in

tate Mam's Becayne Bay

fact. Tratficante had been lodged for a

period in a Cuban jail, an

Before he died. Roselli hinted to as-

indignity

that didn't endear Castro to him.

that he knox

who

had

Alter Trafficante made it back to his

ronard President Kennedy's murder.

Florida haunts, he left part of his or.

It was the same conspirators, he sug

ganizaton bebind in Havana. Some of

witted. whom he had recruited carlier

his henchmen even managed

skul Cuban Premier Fidel Castro.

10 de

velop contacts in Castro's inner circle.

By Rosciate cryptic account, Castro

These were the people Roselli wanted

learned the identity of the underworld

to use to knock off Castro.

Havana

had been

But Roselli didn't have the stature

imity to knock him ott

He believed,

Inside the Mafia to make the necessary

not altogether without basis, that Pres.

arrangements

Trafficante.

So

ident rennedy was behind the alot.

Roselli called in his patron.

The cabin leader. as the supreme

the Chi

cago godfather Sam Momo Giancana,

toad. dended to turn the tables and

to deal with Trafficante.

tie the came croad to arrange ken.

•1s Roselli's associates tell it, he per.

assassination.

accoruine

suaded Giancana that it would be to

insollis scenario. To save their skins.

ide plotters lined up lee Harvey 0.

their advantage to win the good will of

the

CIA.

Convinced,

Giancana flew

sald to pull the trigger.

down to Florida to make the prelimi.

Reselli could never be pinned down

sary arrangements.

ei nates or details. li was also ditti.

Once Giancana and Trafficante set it

cult to assess whether be knew what

up. Roselli used the Havana

under.

he was talking about or whether he

world to plot Castro's demise. At first,

100161

described

what

thought

they tried to plant poison pills, sup.

might have happened. Certainly there

pled by the ClA, in Castro's food. The

In an impromptu, ihreshour inter.

view with Associated Press reporter

Daniel Harker, Castro indicated that

he knew about the sitempts on his life

and

warned that t's

leadors. aiso

might not be safe. That was Sept. 7.

1983.

According to Roselli, Castro enlisted

the same underworld clements whom

he had caught plotting against

him.

They supposedly

Cubans from

the

old

Trafficante

organization.

Working with Cuban intelligence, they«

allegedly lined up an ex. Marine sharp-

sbooter, Lee Harvey Oswald, who had

been active

in the pricastro move.

ment.

According in Roselli's

version.

Oswald may have shot henneds or

may have acted as a decoy while oth

ers ambushed him from closer range.

When Oswald was pirked Up. Kostil

suggested,

the underworld conspira

tors feared he would crack and dis-

close information that meht lead to

18c19.

This

almost certainly

would

have brought a massive

1S.

crack.

down on the Mafia.

So Jack Ruby was ordored to clim.

Inate Oswald making i appear as an

act of reprisal against the Presidgnts,

have m

---

## Page 50

-45-

ISSUE

A... PrefAce

ANAlysIs

The

MISCA investigated

malcual to determine. what

this

cmclusions can be ascetained

concerney the nature, scope, and

ramifications of there specations.

the sa regaid

in the fallowing sectiors,

A Various usues are presented?

wells sulputed to analysis, and then

recolned according to e

aruilable

enidence,

probable

motivations,

and

the most logical inferences.

erces.

---

## Page 51

-46-

Ure /ISCA rerieved mateued from

numerous goveinmental counces that

pertained to the plisms and specation,

relerant to the investigation.

In bala qu

elled lea

Conteal tell on gain the

Bureate of ston

beaten

---

## Page 52

reed

"blecks

look

-47-

There pens included: Mollet

8020

7.

8.

4.

10.

lle

12.

13-

14-

15.

16.

17.

18.

19

20.

21.

22.

23.

24,

25.

26.

22.

29.

Joha Roselli - principal in CIA- O.C. operation

Santo TRafficante-princypal in (IA-O.C. operation

Anterio de Verma-principal in C1A-0.C. operation

Sam GiAnCANa - principal in CIA-O.C. operation

Robert Maheu - principal in (1A-0.c operation

michael McLaney-

Samuel Benton

Noemon Rothman

John Martino

EdwArd P. MoRgAN

Eduona K.. Moss

Dino Cellini

Richard (AiN

Charles

Tourine

Rafael

"Macho'" GEnER

Evelio

Duque

MiyAr

Jorge

po Alonso Pujol

Joseph Shimon

Angelo Bruno

Sam Mannarino

Kelly Mannarino

Edward Browder

Joseph

Merola

Balletti

Domencl

bartone

Richard Helm's

james O'Connell

Luis

Balbuera Calzadilla

AMLASA.

---

## Page 53

-48-

30.

31.

William Alexander tongan

JUAN ÓRtA

32.

33.

34.

JACK AndersoN

(Poxeli attorneys

FRAnK Sturgis

Fidel Castro

Whererer applicable and descable

used the HiscA either interreived

subpocred

or deposed there pecsons or ted them ki gri

lestering before Committe members.

The government socces

a reviewed

the HICA requested 1

where

malicial

were

1.00. Cental Intelligence Aginey

2.

Federal Bureau of Investigation

3. Drug Es forcemend Aginey

1.

4. Department of Defence

5.

repartment of state

Departma,

6.

so of alcohol, Tobacco, and Fireams

7. United Itate Customs Sence

8. Immepation and Naturaliation Seviice

...tto

9 Hinted beaten senate Commette on

Intellegain

Secret

10.

H1202a Mned State Jeerd Terrie

tended der'' Chicap Cume Commission

---

## Page 54

-49-

12.

13.

Chicapo Police Depentmert

New yor Polie Department

14. Public Safety Depactment, Organzed Cume

Bureau, Dade County, Storida

15..

ser Cuban Gorenment

In the

of any nalual at there

majorty of instancs reven

sources

stress and any

statements fum indiniduals were not

pertiment to any assussuation plots

azaunt Castro, particidaly the CIA-

Organand cume on the AMLASH operations.

most all

Further,

3a0t releraut information

acquired was aleady known through

the sSC intestigation and the

CIA Inspector gineral Reports. Tor

this reason the folloing analysis

principally

representscmcluscons.derered..om

---

## Page 55

-50-

substantively the same as that

try which

considered.

information

the SSC and CIA previously

Consequently, d

The HSCA investigation.

resulted is additimal corroboration

of thus information

diversity

pources

108

from

What remains to be drawn are the concurious.

---

## Page 56

-51-

B.

ISSWES. Pertaunny to the

AMLASH OPERATION

The

Commillee forund no.

evidence. Chat the AMLASH operation

provoked Premier Castro to assaisinate

President Kennedy in retaliation.

The Committer han a

equally persuAsive

Incered

theufere cannot

state

evidence ans

whether tire AMLASH opecation

pa to ile dath of President Heardy

can he chaster as an assassation

plot.

Richard Helms, the fermer Director

---

## Page 57

in his testiming

of the CIA,

before this Committe

stateel Chat the AMLISH apecation

uns not designed to be an assarmation

I Chaleady underated,

plot.

Athe 1977

cmcluded

that AMLAsH had" no factual basis

for leiling is reporting any actual

dia plot died ago Castio

dure President Kennedys life, 'o8k

ква

joseph Langosch, the Chef of

counterintelligene for le Ci's special

he component responsible per CIl

operatins directed against the Governes

7 cuba and ln Cuban Antelleua 1 Derries,

Affain Staff a 1963, offered a

andrastay view to the testimony of

---

## Page 58

59,55

Мал.

Helms and the assertions of the

10d Dermind Fitzgeded

197? IGR:

st headed the Special Affaw Staff Whe

ins respite for lie AmLASH operatio, 108d

an affidarit. to the Committee

Langosch iccalled. that:

(73 he Ambish operation proi

to the amarination of Precedent

Kennedy uts chasterigid ky

un speccal affois slatt,

Dermand Fitzgeraed (sic) and

other senor CIA Officers as

an assasscation operation

unchaled and spinsored by

the CIA. 108e

Langoch further walleted that as of

1962 I uns hybly possible their li

of AMLASH and he asociation

---

## Page 59

with the In and that the information

upon which he based his coclusion

Was the AMLASH operation was

incecure was ardilable to senior

here dA official, including

Dermao Figuan, 35

In response to hangosch's suven

slatements, the Canmittee receivio

(CIA pseudonym)

lie affedant of Kent. 1. Pollock fun

We CIA. Pollock "send as

Crecutive Officer for Demand

Fitzgerald during the entee pecied

in which he was Cheep of the Special

affaris slat: and discussed with

hem the AMLASH operation a it propersed."

Pollock speciperally cntested the

---

## Page 60

-55-

arcectim of hangosch stating:

To the best of my knoutedge, Mr.

Fits guald emidered the AMLASH

operation to be a political action

actinly with the abjective of

Carto gime. lay means fa

coup de etat.

I heard mr.

Eity Gerald decur the AMLAsH

repelation frequently, and never

heard hen characterig it as

assassination operation.

mx. Fitzgerned stated inther

my heavy several occasin

his awareness that Coup

de's d'elat aplen molves loss

of life: 1088

He also stated

Desmand Fity Guald did not characterg

the AMLASt operation. as an arraisination

opecation; the case officer

ded not; I, as Ereculine Offecis

ded not, never du cussed

any acput of ihe AMLASHt

operation wich reph M. Langosch;

the Depely Chief, the otter

---

## Page 61

56-

branch chief and the specal

assistants could not how so

characterged it wine they

Old not know about live

pen the pen uns specially

fulled inch a hypoderme

syringe in respons to urgiap

By AMLASH. for a mean

star the coup by killiny Cactio.)

The care open offered the pen

to im risis on tu clay of

Precedent Kinnedy's death, AmLish

reputed the pen with disdaix.

108h

the AmLisis opecation uss

not on ars assmation plot pitie

deny President Kennety' doth,

The Canette

Helen that

concorered

Castro.

Hones

the

etereen

And

soccalion

And that the

operation

"that this dis corny

AMLASH sooth the

AN ASSASSINATIM plot durin

may not hare

CIA,

---

## Page 62

51'

Ascumay that AMLASH unts

Nol An assassanation plot during cie.

I chat

life of President Kennedy the Committe

beliens that even of Castro uncovered

the Commellu beleese that

it existine and scope, @ would not

hare been provoked in a manner sufficient

as sousinting Presidit Keanc,

to want indue selitici

in retchiation i

titattion

Assuming that AMLASH US

an assarmation plot and

dury the life of Presidect Kennedy

and that Castro uncorered its

evilence and scope, the Commelte

still bilenes that Castro woued

resorte to assassinain the

not have rassassinated la

President of the United Stater

---

## Page 63

58°

retaliatios.

300

a supporting this antention

On his interrew with ite

set porch.

Commiltee Premiu Castio.

some

pu

ana

his slatements. Carthe said in pact:

Io the

palegalias

that.

pa forement of

tion

Carto

That was insane. Fum the ideological

pount of view it uns insane. Old

fun the politial pont of view, it hiss

pery to be you her wait nobody,

nobody ever had the idea y

ouch thing. what hould it do?

We junt tied to defend on folks hee,

Anyme Who sets cute to that

idea noved have been judged

insane... absolutely sick.

Never,

---

## Page 64

in treaty yeau of resolution, I

never heard angm sugget

nor

eva speculati about a measu

I the sort, because inho could

think of the idea of organizing

the death of the Prescut if

In Uniled seal. That nould

have been the most perfect

pretext for he leniled States

to inade den coun

" wheil

i what t har tred to present

per all there year, in exery

possible sense. Sine the

Uniled Slate is much man

porciful ther man, what

with the

the Uniled States nould lou

nothie. The des trition noned

har been here.

Castro aero added:

I want to tell you that the

death of the leader does not

chang We septem. It ha

were done that.

---

## Page 65

-60-

as da the interviece

Castro alto commented an

We speech of September 7, 1963

whech has been

ciled throughout the years as an

indication that Cartro may have

ansassinated Precident Kennedy in

retaliction. Premii Cale asseted:

Ao, I said something like there

plat slart to set a very had

precedent, a very serous me --

Chat that could become a

boomerang against the culton,

of there actions. but I did

wat. Oded not mean ever

not mean to threaten by that.

not in the leat.. but rather,

like a warning that te knew;

that we had news about it;

and that to set thore precedents

of plottig the aisarsiatio,

of leader of other country

would ke a very bad

precedent...

smeltery very

---

## Page 66

61°

negative. And, if at present,

the same would happer inder

" We same cercunstances, I noved

have no doubt in saying the

same as I saed (then becau

o dick't mean a Chieat

by its that o didn't say

it as a treat:

...o dil

not mean by that that

we were. goung t. tAke

measures- simlar measures-

like o retaliation for that. We

were meant thas becave ine

Knew wat there were plots.

So the yas he had known

When ince plats against us.

to, the conversation came

about very casually, you

Know; bul I would say

What all there peats in

attempb wee pout if the

everyday life.

волитьє

Cartio

Some reasong,

of some

whech Commeter cautions is speculatese, may be

Assestance here

aDt. does not seem laly that Cartio

moved wake a ruled in to andrising

Ameran leaders es claliation fer

---

## Page 67

(BU)

-62'

plate in his life. if he was actually

contemplating

I planny such to acts. He woued want

a possibh

to call as lille. attentions to himself

possible

Pacher, it seems Castro

uss. allempling. to display he puble

and knowledge i

effort to present then antinuance.

Consequently, the at together

with an absence of any ather endine

implialing Castro,, de anarnation,

the Cammttee believesT that this incident,

while

at

displaying Castco's displeasure

Amerian activities,

a does not !

implicate Cartro in

the

ASSASSINATION.

---

## Page 68

-63-

The Cammitle beliens ther

additional

are

to

dr count any molement if Cactio in

Whech are also compelling.

the avarination

The Connitke condions that wee rasons, whil

au still newmanly

speculativi.

Liest, william atrood, specal

Adnsore to ihe liniled dick Delegation to

the leniled Nations, was intolied,

diplomatic efforts to establich a

frameek por detente during le fall of

1963. Atwood led the sse that

# •

Magoge Bedy, an dna to Prededent

Kennedy, toed him that Presides

---

## Page 69

-64-

"pushing

Kennedy ta in paro of

puching. touail

an. аренн

toud labe" to take.

Cartro.

"out. I thee soreet fold and pechaps

terpery out. In Bay of Keep and mayhe

gelling bad. to normal" atwood

allo arranged. for a French journalit,

pan Daniel to melt with kennedy

puar to a scheduled lup by Danil

to see Gastro. Daniel and Kennedy

Idicused the prospel for restattichery

Unild Stale Cula relatins and Kennedy

asked tamel to see bum apte visiting Castio.

The Canmitter bellers that

such efforts to estathch a peaceful

co-lustice betwen the unted States

hampered

And Cuba would has seed

aay

---

## Page 70

865'

desice by Castro to assassinato

Kennedy.

send,

th Carmitle also beliese theis

aming tw

the lined States Presidel Kennedy sit.

supported a les hostile attitude

- skip y

spaces

And position tournd Cuba.

renewed diplomatu relations

Trich the prospects of detent

in the

an and te knouted that

Kennedy

possessed a ose for paroight allited

toured Cuba than other

military o

political leades, Cauto

I would hau

head.

lasm to hope that Kennedy,

mainlained the Presidiney

Prisedeney. Even of Caste

che elatins beliveen Cuba and la

uret

Eat tuite

linted Stale were bad Under the Kennedy

Presideney,

were

Atme

legitimate

eaten, Chen

Masons

to serpect they

would have been wre

unde any otte admintratios.

---

## Page 71

66-

Juither, the Committe are not

bilien that eliminating Kenoady

farorably

noud necessarly har altered the

liniled slates' operatin and lus

tound Cuba, Le additem,

the

Emmell does not belter: Cantus woued

har sacked rosay the bonds thats that

occassan to who destroy Caba

assaisinated Presiduct Kennedy becoun

such an all, y discovere, wered

have afforded the Unill Stales the

would wot hav keen cirth it.

---

## Page 72

-8K-61

B. Issues Keltaining. to the CIA -0,

Cume Plots

1. Scope and Nature of Plots - Aralysis

a) Roselli Khouted of CIA SponsoRship

james O'Connell.

inporined

the

Committee that Maken told Roselli

he represented. an international group

109 Who had to rested interes

in Cura

Roselle, hourer, tertified

to the SSC that maker told her

fian the beginnery that o 'Connell was

una te CIA.

0 Maheu empumed thes

account to the SSC!I!

makeu also elated

in a deposition to the Committee That

fanana knew at the time that urther,

O'Connell was rich the C1D?

Trafficante

lestified to the Cmimitte that Roselli

informed him that he, lovelle,

WAS

operating as an agent of the CIA.

the weight of the endence

indicates that Roselle, and this

pancana and Trappuante, knew

le CIA wns whird te

assassination plots.

at

an early stage. This recognition

---

## Page 73

-68

8 CIA initiation es important becouse.

shows that

and the organied?

Jeancana and Trafficante

sume Knoury became

invoted nich the CIA.

1) MERROR DISCOVERY DE TRUE IDENTITIES.

the enhane of

Roselli

arranged

a 1 Grancara

and trapfecante into the plots and

microduced them to. O 'Connell as

he learned the two identites of

---

## Page 74

-55-

169-

there persons a fee months apter

he operation. us in progress wher he as mahen

saw an article in are of the tunday

sections of the meami newspaper

the artide supposedly pertained to i

Organized cume in the lented State and

te contained pictares of top

hoodlums, including Sam Giancano

and Santo Trafficanto.

In che

11961 Ion O'Connell slated that the

the

in the miami Time

article came

Parade magazine

contends

that he did

not know the hue identities of Som

Gold and or we shes antide appeas, tis

opterion

---

## Page 75

The sou

that-

O'Connell 1 slated that aft

ии. incident

were

the cra occuned apte the tA GAss

up to

ears" in the operation and

creequently the CA decided to progres

The Osc seathed

for croucted

a seach of supplements to all meane

neuspapers fer the requeste time

pend and could not locall any

pach article 120) the Committee consequently

searched Parade magazine for of the

fall of 1960, all of 196 d, and all of 1962,

the years which spammed the entire

"opeiation.

a he Committee leained

Wat on january 21, 1962, Parade

---

## Page 76

publiched an article. entelled, "Our

government's crackdous an organis

crine.".

written by JACK Anderson, whech

contains

contai

a listing of the top tew hoodlums

sereral

@mobsters,

in the country as well as

cas photoraph?

including

I Sonto Trappuante 121

The

article

" focuses on the efforts

of actoiney gened o bert tennedy,

campaign against organized cume and

mentions both grancara and. Trafficanto.

detough this laade artile appeas

to

O'Connell and makeu!,

conespond tuch ol

o description,

it is or me year past

the begmning

Petro

mats months of the tide. operation.

---

## Page 77

72-

nine months

Indeed, it occus

after the

cople has. I of the piste. a disonally,

neune the sic nor the Commitle has

dscorered any other dutch pertaining

to organized cune in Parade magazini

o the supplements of any meane

nurpaper for the alleged tome period.

It appears O'Connell and maker

are lying in an atlept to look

for an ex past fallo reason for

continuing the speration apter. te

introduction of two of the top pratin

organiza cume pegises in the Unite Stato.

Implicit in their contention is that

Whill the CiA wished to soluit

criminal

@ay...sons to assassinate Castio

---

## Page 78

-73°

it noues not. Knocrayly. hare recruited

5 озапизи

any figures pean the top echeton. A crime.

additionally; O'Connells I statement thes

"We were up to om eass it it" is even.

more

difficuet to fathom since the specation

according to the 1967. IGR te

In the fall of 1960

cepecation uns in its embryonic stagen

and no piles ence even delived ante.

apprormally February on march of 1961.

Without additional support the Committe

does not. bel ere the

^

contentions of makeu and O'Connell, tea

The CIA

plot to assassinate Castro

uns necessarly a highly volatile and

secret aperation. Once loveli introduced

additional contacts in to the scene it is

---

## Page 79

-74-

not logical that the CiA nould har

reglected to worky the identitos of

a spardly who they core

stating with smopiring wol

such principals.

On the

contrary, it is mone believable and ma

probabk brat the CiA ascetained

the bre identition a Sam GoiD and "Joe"

at an early stage and cnsciously

progressed forraid in the apecation

emnfident that there two peesons, in

the words?

athibited to Colonel

Cheffield Edwards, unre ind i, duall

"fough enough," to hardle the pob. 122

it.

---

## Page 80

-15

e) Roles of Principals

1) Phase. One

Colonel. shepfied Edwaids assignes

O'Connell the talk of finding someone

to assasscrate Castio.

Ederands o O'Conell both decided to

utilin maker as somene to recruit

persons to effectuate. the operation.

O'Connel allo descibed his role as

the laison to the CIA aid

стритев. that all repoet in

infornation mould proceed thous him

to the aginey. I De aldition, o'Connell

sold he acted as. a

babysitter to

loselle; that is, remainery inth hen

to occupy his time to ensure that

26

Willian, Horsey.

O Connellis

roution who was coott

seeing

пьЕ

---

## Page 81

- Бо -

=76°

There is a discrepany ore who

reggutul. Roseli for the operation,

in any event, he

was recruiled becau

but

could handle the assignment.

Enflict auses over the tok of

that Graniand was ouly a "back-tep"

It should be

noted that

man. 129

Gramane cas

murdered four daup before Roselli made

In statement. Makeu, horever, descuted

Geancand as having a Key role and

charaderzed his job ao "o locate

someone in Castro's entourage no

could accomplich the arrassmation.

joseph himon, a close fund of Roselli

---

## Page 82

77°

who had knocked of the plat at

..the time, rapeded the slated that

gases haselli cntacted giancan

to provide Cuban contes shimon feether

charactered rancan as sly providing

emtacts, specifueally Santo Trafficate,

and not as an actise participant

196-7

he note of trafficante, we

caly linag nuncial

мати

сите

que sted in the plot

no, the mas Souplice

analycis is that Giancara

solely sured as. a person

Roselli

could approach who

8000

could shee ther

make the necessary contacto...

specqually Santo Trafficial.

into the Cuban domain,' Roseli,

---

## Page 83

-

78°

uho FBI files indicate

repental gearsia: interest in

Las Vegas and was subordinate to him, would

not duictly contact the organied

crime boss of the Cubar and souther;

Flouda area, in this case Santo

w/out FIRsT. contreting

Traffisante. loveli woul

entract

his superior, Graneans, who noued

then t

o attistin make any

necessary arrangerents! Both grandd

and trappicante, being bosses of

..tuo organied crime domains, noved

have the means, pover, and statare

to arrang for the assarmation. It

i would not has been proper for Noseble

thare independently efter cotoctics

---

## Page 84

-

279=

trafficant, who had the tith dels

influenc to recruit the necessary

permnel to actually pufor it anarsenation.

janiona probably uns not an active

participant is the process of passing

0r

actually anunging the assassination.

Cott.

Nitrodog Cuban

The role of Trafficanto, la

only lining mayon organized crime figui

involved in the plot, so a najon sounce of

amflict, the 1967 IGR contains serial

references to Trappicante which charaderizi

his function. In discussiny how the poison

pills coud be giren to Castno it state

what. "Trappicante ('yor, the couries) us

in touch. mich a disappected Cuban

official wit accer to. Caste and precumably

---

## Page 85

280°

of a sort that would enable hun to surptiliondy

poison Castro"V Late the uport slate.

tot "Roselle pared the pill to traffiante"

and that "Roseli reported to o'Connell

that the pells had been deliried to

Outa in Cuba: 'OD After Orta lost

hes pos tum in the luhan gover nunt and

could no linger pan any pills the IOR

seep "Roselle told o'Connell that

Trafficante knew of a man hgh up

in the Cuban exte movement who

meght do le job. " Poreli edent teed

henas antenco de Verona.

accolatest

pallbering panay furthes empirins

Trappicante's role:

---

## Page 86

8t°

Trafficante approached Verona aud

told him that he had chints who

wanted to do and with Cartro and

that they nould pay big. mney for

We joh.

Неста

is uported to has

ren very recepline, since it would

nean what he would be able to bey

his on ship, aum, a co as

communications equipment.

9 'Єв

Trappicante

kamalle

lestefeed in

to the Committee that Roselle astled henri

solely

to act as an interputor belleren te

American peatives and the Cuten emtrets

trafficante denied hardling or carrying

any posses pill used in the amorater

operation@@8denied

denud

641

Verna, and

Orta.

---

## Page 87

-A&-

82°

TRAFFICANTE'S

In hu. Lenate lestimony. Roseli confumed f

thatofa

roll as c

translator.

O'Conmell, houserer, informed te

Cummelte that Trafficante unss the perm

in contact with Cubans in Harasa.

Gramana partally empumed thes 8008

the 1967I6R8 by centifying toe

a man Who mould sere as

a courier

to Cuba and male arrangement there.

O'Chell also confermed that he eve the

only ciA cnduit and that if the 1767

IOR call trappicante I entreted is

procused the assessins then it

accurately reflect the information the

CIA reciered."

144)

---

## Page 88

-t7-

285-

it is interesting.

that U

1975 and , 978. Cngressionial lettering

of Roselli and Trafficante I corrobocate

each acher..

but remain. Cmtrary to

the facts how the puncipals reported

the facts in.

1967.

The it

i enden tuat that trafficante

uns not merely an in tipute

but

an integral part of the active

parterpant is passing the porom pill

and in recruiting the potential assassins.

This is importaut in dramatizing the

deep inrotrement of organized came with the

CiA is there plots. One can undertand

it i

why Trafficante today. wher to dounplay

his tole; the fact, however, simply do

---

## Page 89

184°

Not support his assections. seany

mainest

The Comittee belieres

Deliers the CIA IGR.

in the Carmitle allo heard Astimony

peom antenco verona.

Verona

plots to kill Castio. and denied

that he so not anale of an a sition

intolement in there aperations!

Verma is

feel, however, that a

obviouly lying. prosecutio

se even pay, veligation this up)

1446

longer isolied. in the operation

The

IoR salt that hose remained

as a prominent peere and

worked

well mid the Caban. bell Commersily

and duely a kelhalf of the CIA.

Hathougs the toplest

IGR

Troyficante

Guns not involred in Phase II, it

адріа

chat

cantaus the caution"' he

traffuante was are of the principias

i. is Shef Edlands Phase On of Cle

specation. Ho premarly was not

invotred, " Phase Two under Honrey,

but we cannot be sure. of that. apt all,

Trapy cant mas the man sino brought Vuma

into the opecation

lace in Phare Ore, and

Kerma was me of the man. players in Adi,

Phau Two.

---

## Page 90

-80'

It is reasmable to assume that

Roselle at leant Kept both Grancare

and trappicante informed of te

operatin's proper

1) Delivery of the pills.

Nether the 1967 IGR or

the sSe pinpoints the date on

whech o'Connell delisered the pill

Rosali

to des during Phase the of thee

plots. The chain of custody, as already

mentined, uns for Roselli to delivi

lu pills to Trappriante, Do subsequent

The sicheequent

confered the cites say steps

remain a mipter but forceli

pa: 0 O'Connell.

that te

pills. had been delinered to... Orla in

---

## Page 91

286-

Cuba in late February

o eady

mauch, 196%.

foreph shimon

informed the

Committee that he and

makeu taniled

toguher to Miami to le Fontainblew

is mao March, 1961,

to entres itte

Pallan. Jokages Johansson. fight

Once there maker informed him of the

plot to assassinate Castro.20@Shamia.com

pays to attended a selling that during

the hip; he allended a meding where

a pursmous liqued to be uned, i

the arsarsination uns parred.@

stra's vertion probably

slumn is probably the sour for

Anderson's

source

feel anderm 'o column of January, 19,

---

## Page 92

281°

1971, which fixes. the date of te

parsage of the poisen at the Fantainteen

as mauh, 13, 1961.

that

In any eveut, it appears cutain

the C/A

a dis not pass any

o pillo, porom, os assassination

creapons before February of 1961. the

fall segment of the peats mly crotituted

a planning slage; No one. undertook any

operational actinities..

E) LOCATION. of TRAbicane.

To suppet the descuptio, 18

Trappeante as a couner. the 196%IGR

states.. that. Last that time. the

gambling casinos mr sull apecating

is Cuba, and Trappucante ta malling

---

## Page 93

-72°

-88=

i regular Cops

beltea mixini and

Itarana a sipdicate busines

The Canmitte has obtained some eurdone

indicatio

not

that inpfecante was travelling to Cuba

during the peried. No words

arailable to the Cmmittice fiam INS,

Pete Depaiment, a ltee. FBI

uput ang trans aptic February, 1960,

Duriy thats timi

the FBI maintained physical

Suwellane on Trapart destin

the Commillice that he

arly made

tuo tupo to Cuba apti

hes releace

the Trescorned prisor.

sum pared in aupent, 1951, aus

hat there trips ocurred wither

to to three months of this wlas?

---

## Page 94

73

-89-

considery trafficante's uputed top positivis

in the LA COSA NOSTRA,

Aditionally, A it tens more reasonable..

tat Trafficante would send a representalise.

to Cuba to conduct any businers rather

can wink being delached by Carto again.

of traffiable us acteally

traveling between meani. and Havana te

implications au interesting. He was either

wiling to real being detained again se had

had acquie

asurane.....

fum. the

Cubar gorement repacdig his safety.

a aug erert...

the

presence. of trapperante

during Centhe jall o 1960 in Cuba raises.

the possibility of a cozier elationship.

betereen hired,

And

st-Ve Cuban goreurent Chan

it i

proudy beliered. Such a relatinhip

during the pecod when Trafficante

---

## Page 95

_90-

ura scheming to assarsinate

Castro

inviter the theory that Trafficante was

possibly inpormey the Cuban foreinment

of acentre in the miami area

and see the lelos in particular.

Be li return for such information Trappicante

hore acquired

should could

loit gambling

As well as

mat apecations

support aid a Cuban soneturny

for the

smegglingof.cmtahard into the

United Stales. The Carmelle realis

the enormous ramprations of such a

Cheery and cautions. that it has

not recend any information ce

endure is the regard. I addition,

the

available endine

---

## Page 96

75-

-91-

induats trappliante. uns not passatly

Annelling between Miani and Havana.

although the Committee recognize

that.

Trappicante could to male te such

trips and not disrupt his man normat

couline is miami and TAmpA thus

possilly undermining the effect of any

perveillance.

7) Verona's other Contacts

as prescoudy related

FBI porarded to che CIA a

the

memoradum in 21 Deember 1960. rescaling

that U.s. raweteer in malling

epport. to penane anti-Castio

actinities and subequenty

---

## Page 97

-75=

-92-

on

18 January 1961

Vecona with thore scheres

Come

which arrociater

стельвых.

Other son tic allo proveding

assistance to veria to caluit anti-

Canto opciations. At the Come of

hu mtodutin into lhe CIA-

organgue cume ploto

the CIAi

funding Verna though the lerolutionary

Democratic Trant And We Cubar

Revolutemary Council @Verna

informed the Commite that the

purpor of the

coreil stemnes

fum an agrement with the Amonican

---

## Page 98

193=

gorinment to evade Cha and

establich democratic contral of the

iland.

Adding to the support for tena

ince the pumotional efforts of Dino

and Eddie Cellini! Who portedly,

through a Warhigton, D.C. puble

relatins. fum, Ederaid I. Moss and

Associates. Moss had purious CIA

an scations. and was supposedly

acting as a induct for feinds

supplied by the Celline beothers

with the understanding that tus. group.

would reces punteged heatment

in the Cita of the futere 150

---

## Page 99

78-

_94°

In his tetermy before la

Committee

Verma allo described a

with Jorge Almo Pijol And meyer Lausky in

meeting at the the

you Lanky's

home

is meani is the summer of 1160.00)

Lansky said he had bueners, intered

in Cula and wanted to help the

Cutano pynt Cartio, destroy Castro,

and by and estarlich a democratii

government.

2200

the logical inference to be drown

fion dear this is that the CIA,

other perms

interested in remerry

We Castro

"regime all settled so/ upon de

Verona, probally independently,

---

## Page 100

179'

95

as a person who had the potintial of

uniting the mulled of excle groups

to reichra Catno. Additimally,

Verma's sported contacts with

Insene crime raises the positility

that he wn involved with thems in

a plot to kill Castro kefose the

evolutin of the CIA-Organized

cume plats. of this was the car

then trappecantes recreatens of

Verma into le CIA aperation would

reuet is pronding appicial it.S.

sanction. to an already exarting indeperder

operation, the CIA recognized Itis

in. staling" it is possible that Verma

already iss indred in independent

---

## Page 101

=80-

96°

operators wit the cummal sipidicate whew

fuit approached proi to the Bay of Pigs...

in mauch 1961 to carry out the Cactio

assassination.

---

## Page 102

4, 16,

-97-

IntRoductioN oF "JOE" ANd "GOLD" And RELATor

Events

The timing of the introclution

of Geancana (gold) and Trafficante (fo)

es important to the analyses of

the the nok of oxgangie cume is

Wu Cartro assaisinatius attempts. plots.

This introduction, togethas wich

oche weated trents, further suggeh

Ure Cresis that the CIA foend itell

unored in

providing addina renounces

for indepindent opication that the syndicat

ahendy. had commenced.

---

## Page 103

=85=98-

Of According to the 1967 IGR, the

chance

I granana and holli occurred during

the muck of September 25, 1960(624

In contrart, the SSC did not

assign a to precise date for ther

entrance bukie of emplisty endenc

beluren the 1967 I61 and

manen's

derate testimmy which

set thee

163)

date apta Norm her, 1960.

The SSC

ded anclude, hoererer, that Grancara unas

invored in the speration durindctober

because of the Las Vegas wiretap incident

which occured on Delober 30, and becann

of the Oclorer 18, 1960 FBI memorandum

whech revealed Granian had told sered

hu involvement in a plot to

people if a pod agornt tastres

164)

ansarunali Cartno.

---

## Page 104

585-99

although there two exents

may

ose which te SS C

cites thesige

support the in arment of Giancond

durry betster they allo

Wills invite speculation o independent

. oxganized cume operatio,

The october i8,

1960, FBI memorandum is

applicable

deterialty. The states:

partocuilail

(0] wring a recent comination nich several

friend, granana slated tat Fate Castro was

to be done away with shouly, said it

houed our in. Normble. Morons, Graniara

said he had aleedy met with the would be

assassin in thie occasions, the last

metiry taking place on a boat docked

at the Fontainblen hotel, sneami Beach.

Grencene sated everything had been

paputed for Killing Castes and tat

the assaisin.

had aranged with a

gie, not feithe deserted, to drop

a pill"

" some drink or food of Cactio,

---

## Page 105

180-

according to the

1967IGR

the

pour pills, which the CIA prepared

at Graneand's request,

, unce not

ready for delivery i

intel late February

early manh, 1961,

-it

is extremely douttfull that Grancara's

Normber, 1960, assaisination plot uns

part of the (14 opiation. Racker

it appery that the organge cumi

had it aleady had its power plan

in progress, use a miless of Cactio,

to accompluch the deed, when the CIA

fortuitousy entred the scene.

Organized cume the occupied a

perpect position. If their private

weat a forded they them messes

---

## Page 106

110/-

н)

jar-reaching. Hackmail potential

against

the CIA which they could hercise cet

in to opportine moment. If cher

intryie failed, hourrer,

they coued

then assume the position that they wan

only executing the directives of the

governeut.

Richard CArN

the"

assassin" that.

Grancara

uper to is the october 8 mene may

have been Richard Scall zetti Cain.

Cain, in connection with the Top Echelon

Cumenal Emporat Program, informed tho

FBI of his cuminal activites. and association

166

with gianara.

spathet Cain admitted that he had

---

## Page 107

all of.

stoald

footnote..

-102-

and been on lois.

paysore

he was a member of the Chrajo Polici

Department fum 1956-1960,

-drector

o a priate defie agra from 1 960-602,

and chis Initiator for the Cook

County the f's office from 19602

t-1964.

Cain's superors dismessed him from

office when Cain went to trad is a

161

dug case inrestigation.

Open 1964

Cain trovelled estensirely with Giancara

troughout the world and allo send

a tave you sentence is the Terackand

Fedual Pintitentiary following a 1969

conviction for cmopracy in the 1963

lottery of Franklin Pack Ban

as a

usuet of the bank notherg Cain Keras

---

## Page 108

-103-

showed fo

a layet of the ToP.. EThelm Criminal

Enforcement Program 169

Early in his career cain debashed

a

to reputation

for experenes in sabotage, polygraphs,

and election. surcillance.

Cain

upolell alro.un fluent in Stalian

nd Ebodid trovelles Extensively through

and spanich,

LoTIN America.

1973

Cares uns

alain in gargland fashion in a Chicajo

restaurant. 122

startin → senal of cain's actinites duriag

whe.jael.of 1 16.0,.... тодики и

ch his part

ep expercne,

support. the proposition chat

back Exis was

Involked in any Cubar

---

## Page 109

104

affair granna participatot

Gair

Fiest,

as assassmato

credut of the craplot,

woved have

Cuban affoirs,

'he" recruited Cain to

assist him.

Finst,

record

Cain maintained a Mai

of volintanly providing information to tee

ventures, a practice

grancana may hare

promoted in an

effort to gain possible

cernage with the CIA, I a

CrA

memorandum to the FBI dated 4 November 1960

on his fiest contract with the cia:

carn supplied, the fallourg infomation?

bat 19 1950-52

White is

meami, Flocida, he

inclabled serial telephone taps a

various Cuban revolutionary

William BueNZ→>

fiziness,

under the supervision

Who had contret with the

will a no a sorea detere

---

## Page 110

=105 -

2) What on October 2, 1960, u

мат

Beeny, there sperating out of New Youl

Cly, met me lain at?

O'Hare

бо trul to

Unsport and asked him

shillios

to woot be inititted on

tranceling

to Cuba at the regunt of former

President Pro to install

tapo an varous Cubans;

and

3) Chat is 1959, Enstantiar Kangles,

a former attorney of for the

Curan 26% of July mporement,

inqured bott whether Cann noved

instuich. CASTRO

Анту

cers

in the use of polygraphs?

seems

more than concedental that

the ClA

to supply

soccurred. simutonesusy

this

wIth

information

graneana st meeting with hostle and

Cam subequently

maneu.

voluntiers

information.

to the can durey 1961-63.

---

## Page 111

190-106-

second,

Normber, 1960,

cinfidential

inpormant foes the bureau that

selitter

20,1960, derapio Mntejo, Wto former head

Of the ful 261 morement in Chicago, met

Rubard S. Caiss in the

appee of

Constantine tangles, the former attorney in

Chaago for the Cuban 26 I of Jarly

morement and former

councel in the

Unild seats for lee Clan Gorient

headed beg Fiel Castic. 4)

Cain indicated

to Kangles that he had clients tho

wished to get news stories and photograph,

out of Cuba emcerning rebel actinity in

in later fortie rem fireen interest

Chat he on

00000

inched to cover the

story and was soon going to miami

---

## Page 112

107-

in an altemps to enter Cuba, and that

Jack marley, a Chicays columnist, and Bob.

ajanian of Life magazine, lad inculty.

of the centrero.

Third, an Normber 2,

1960,

FBI intercived. CAiN in mixmi of lie

Sands Hotel, meani Beach Cain weed he

enrisentalise 8. Accurate Ditioine

Life

Laborator, 6

magazine,

and sixty-four older newspapers.

apte

providing information In lee mililay

armamento in Cuha,

Cann said that the

Resistence morement.

had egut. hundred

men felony i...

the Es camhray

Mountains and that he was awaiting the

apportunal to parachite. into the Escartiays

---

## Page 113

-188-

to

I take photos for it !

Caia

said

that Antinio de Verona th

them tha

information on the Cuban armament. DO

Wher

a can a plans.

to visit Cuba, either to indall inutaps

for forma President Prio on to take

photographs

p of whe actsity, on both,

are considered

presence in miami and his reperone to

the + 55955109760

OF CATRO

as aorcember

simutaneoudly with giancan't steep

with loseli and hakes

and

with carn's

the tene purpose and postible interrelation

approach to the CIA, roles

of these events becom

тке

even mere suspect.

the

assegnment

wiretap carrage did the photographic

story may ty hase been corers; Granedia

may hav been attempting to send can

to Cuta to supervise the poisoning

attempt a Castro. Cain ter

---

## Page 114

93=

709-

belonged to da Cosa Nostra, spoke

Spanish,

had extensise cotret in Latio America, col

uns. enel-versed in sato tage and

investigatin

procedines,

I had been on geancand's

paysole for four years, adapparently funs

arrive in by approximately

attemphy to got Cuba de Wormher, 1960, the

# Jurther,

in his FBJ Internei

7 reena? to Antonco de

Cain' me

Verona,

peum that the CIA

cmeedu may have delly been attire in

ASSASSINATIONi

independent oxganized crime plots against

Cite prior. to his recuitment bey

Trapficante...in

manch,

1961,.

raise,

---

## Page 115

more suspicion.

Ther esents can

be

intrepreted

to.indicati..that

Caine. may hase been

i "assassia-to-be" whom. Giancana

referred to

in

We 18 Oclober 1160

FBI. memorandum, on he say hase

seen th cut.

set man for de operation.

The Canmillu cautum that the

analysis

speculative SHAR

Cain

could also tate

have provided and the service to Jianes.

As already indicaled.,

called 5.w.

to a send perses, @ HaRrison,

allyedly

. accompanied. an assisted bacliti

in the wintap. Athrough thee justice

---

## Page 116

111-

Department vigorously pursued thes

investigation and prepared to indict

s the principals,

could detumine who THarrison was and

pseticpont

would admit to

hu identity. There is no docebt he existed;

he sepped the hotel register accompanied

Balletti o" the flight to has vegass

Both DuBois,

tue privat instigator mahen hired to conduct thee

purveillance, and Ballitti maintaned that

maneu possiste poo arranged for T.W.

Hanison to accompany Balletto fem meamer

to has vegas to arist is. the operation.

maheudenced thu 0 'Chell,.

...the

CIA larson man, to informed the Conmettre

---

## Page 117

96. 112-

What whoere Hanson wass he was Not

a CIA employee.

Clearly someone ananged for master'

Harison's presence and knows his tuce identity.

Since DuBois and balletti were acted

oly as the insturments

it seems togrant that they

bat no kordedy of titt say ClA operation,

it seem lojied that they would hare revealed

Hurison's idently in the face of federal

prosecution if Harrison were fant an employee

of Dubois with No connection to the ClApR

the associates of maker in

to prales

7 ten

not

make

---

## Page 118

-112a -

Theis, Balletti And Debors elder did

Not khou the identity of Harison on

felt that there cheat Is interes protitled

lom fean rescaling such information.

Charly presene

smeme arranged

for sarison's pipens and kren

his i

identity. Of seems most blaly that

mater pe vided Atarica at the request of a

bad a duet nhut , un

sureillane.

---

## Page 119

--113-

of makeu

informed the Conmebter that he institulad

the ze surreillane. to

pacify geancana's

concerno that Phyllis Me guire uns having

an appaci with Don RoWAN aid. to

dette. uncorr any

possible leatio

4p. 42)

regarding the operation.

Roseli cmpuried

185

T9S1R

P

there two accounts in his denate testimany.

part

A DA

probably

what

micher

did.

ComaN's

hors

---

## Page 120

1987114-

shimm fucker informed the Cammittee

that Geancana told him he

pail $5,000 per the das Vegas

operation. IT of shimon po

186

Azsuming that maker did prondi

most likely

for Harrison he in all potatility did

At the requedl of

so fee someone ise. mahen and not

have any reason to independently preper

one peon or another; The CIA.

apor

Graniana, hover, ked have such

a peonal intent. Geancana's interest

obviously stemmed fun his

relatin rich begins and it is

probably coreet that: Giancan rusted

maker to beg. Rous's room. Thei

Ey han

---

## Page 121

- 909-115

pimpted Graneans to dict mahe

to ure o are of this a perm of

geancase's choice. Cain fit that

cole pepictl

And in tian dillate October and carly noremberg.

eate cost mean

tooting

meami

= too skilled

election:

was the debackation point fin

or then

trip to

Las vegas.

deucellance technician,

his depocition

Maher demed any Knoutedge of Cair.

Whea

shown

a surral

photographs

of Can fum the late 1950's and early

1960's Anther Balletti also

could not

There dinals do not

detact from the theory

bat CaiN was torerison;

CAINdO Banison.

iden@e@s ident the choage in test many

1960 there as no Reas

Foot to sipect

The CiA had a permal milaut

because of

pulling megun does

the 18 October 1960 menerande

where giancan ducessed

An

assassation plat against. (oto.

The OSC

---

## Page 122

-to- 116-

Nue memo caused the CIA

concluder that the Cir to be caccined,

ant dittimine of Graneans nos

century inpormation

on the CIA-

organized crime plots. This may be

partially correct, but the

passantan as already indicated thee

Est menandu depicto actor to tally

..in progues and involrig a gie which does

-Not resemble the October statues of

could

the CIA operation. The CIA streweet hare

been man emerned that Grann sos

: involved in a sepuate ascariation plot

coull.

and ansequently stored har been

se cmened wich its

nature and estent.... I

tote the reasons

have

why Phyllis negin would ' bar the taget

---

## Page 123

Tot 117

cher

for such suicillance to two-foed. First,

her relatimshop with gian an night ba

distutt a clostra atric, entailed her

Maining oy cutan clandestine actintes.

send, she wass one of the "severed

in the conrenatim

finds" sue which Grana beet

the carersations

relatid in tu

18 October menna.

The CiA intent would allo

explain nhy a wretap was toned

installed. Mahen informed Ice

Commetle what he could ust conter only

ordered physial surillane of

the target, hours, and could not

lindentand why anyone ple installed

primary

wAs

a wiretap since the - intent

---

## Page 124

-Z02=118

to check

en

meguin's reporte affai

p 40 Cardipo.

nich how The physial sunillas

and a room bug nould, admittedly,

be mere them adequate to Uncarc

any appair. Df, horrever, maker allo

inched to circelyite the poisitilly

Of leave in the operation as indl as

He possibility of grancana's involvement

indeperdent

In a exportal plot, then the un of

would harbees

lojical.)

Chan

ula

I the a has keyes.

speration

---

## Page 125

119

Arsenery

what intertyar affar wassat the primary

force of the has beyou apecation

dinect surveller.

It can be arqued that y meger

would has bee

optimum method.

to invertyati

I leats and information Gearain

a. This,

however, would has run the ruk of incussing

the wrath of grancars and his possible

depentaro pum the CIA assaunalon plots m

y anyme deltebed the surveillance.

Through the cover of surelling Rows for

a possible affair with megui, hecrever, the

nad the opportunity to

CIA COLlI

stalled may has pote

Meguin

to obtain information in the assursination plots

for a reason which! met the apmoral of Giancer.

always helieved

Indeed, Giancara piobably

---

## Page 126

120

that his directive to investyate a possibl

affeci was the oily rescue arosed in the

surrellain. Is any erect, the

opectives of both Graneand and la

eit could hin been achiered chille

Hannison uns a Geancana

v Choie,

specifically CAIN, on

operative.

---

## Page 127

121

-888-

apla de hms repas Operation back-fried

ASSASSInATIon plots. ADDERS

deeded to antinue the settes. This

cares o Conell, it al,

indicates that telly feet the security

CIA

of the oxganged crime plotte had

Additionally,

Not been seroudy breached. Olde

pos sily

it indicated that the cat posedl

determined that eren if Jeaneana

un involved in an independent

operation, that it st wah do would

not hamper ther epports, and that

all intouls could be reconciled. the

CiA continued on the same tately,

blathel, jong "to bed "wth to

Metie: oranged crime.

---

## Page 128

122

Tpo-

the."

girl" in the 18 October 1960 menovandum.

In this memo Ganeana spoke

of a girl. tota

stoo who

ste was going to drop a pill in. some.

food on dunt of Castro. This. format

es agan. contradiction to le cin

operation which intrally whied a fran

Ora, a secrelazy on Carto's sume

minusly, to adminalit the pill.

the identity of thei giduperred

to by grancard has not been aucetourd but

it is rearmadle to astume that Trafficials

wks.

I in the pume poortion to

writ a mutrees of Castro becam o

his.mumerous.cotactein.t. Cuban

garbling are prostition cincts. (ed

---

## Page 129

123

-1071

We Cater

Amercan gamblers coutinily maintained!'

Chan mistresses and trafficante was a

typical elample. A winers allo informed the

Carmitter that Castro customarily arund at

the Nacnal Hotel unescoult to vist oe

Indicates

of his paramours.

This induale Check, I

may hav been relatedly easy for Trafficiail

to have arranged fon a young wraw to sere

Cacto and to attempt to poison him. Insequently,

We lue of a gil is quilt logicad and fruther

supports the in votement of ofanege cun

In em independend plot to Kill Cartro.

---

## Page 130

124-p0t

3) Articts on Febuk Sturgis

As indicated in dectior I

Paul meskill of the New Youk Doily News

unate serial artice in 1975 and 1976

concerney actinbe of Fraul Strei.

I These article fuitter.

replie

despairt

Ilve

Theory that agani che was

involnd

an independent

Cartre

anarination

plates

consequenty

The Commite apies

stock with

The citt assction that the Curey

"may han been piggy-backing on thi

puliate and in addition to its

matural contactation to the supplaying

an aura of official paniter."

accolan

they the

---

## Page 131

125 -pop

emenali

The following ceiliation are from

thi theory and mone string thorseughly

ryud to the allegatons is; the Meskill

articles.

Luist, Organized Cme.

probably

inilinted independent assassination plots

ajacit Cartro pror to

any CIA

..unrobrement in late 1960.

plats may have been

in progres when

un CA Maitialed its plans to Kill

Cartro in April, 1962...

send, anganged crime could

quite possitly have been ducting artistor

such on those descrited in the News Youl

---

## Page 132

744

126

Daily des article.

Theid, Fraall Sturge man protally

estastched coticts inch organged chine

through his gambling asociations and

protably tas weed by them in some

imply

capacitas

The does not imply that

he ups a member of oganged crime.

Forth, Tall Sturgis probably

Knew Orto and could have been i volved

with him is an anamination plot. Anc

Hunge is not a whatle source, however,

his allejations are surput.

p according to the Commitee's renew

of all snailable

eirdener,

Fifth,

the CIA: WAs not smole

In any operations with Orto press to

late 1960.a

terred.

ay

---

## Page 133

127

losth,. stugi uns nod necessartily.

involved with foreig a Orla in a plot

to. Kill. Carto. He may have barred

of plots involrig Orta ad parsibly Loreny

in teami is 19665 apter Orta

Additimally.

anne then in

April,

relate

the

1975, Markill artules did not cellis

the Stregis - Loreng plot to kill

Castro.with. parson.pitts. Of is mly apta

..Che puttiention of. the SSC Inteim Report

in wormben,1975, and the Final Report

describes

in April, 1976, that Merkill sell this

plot. Thes, tuyes. may have comtined

accurate

ontured

A inpormation

I Onto so other

fabricate

sse precented in fabricating

---

## Page 134

the LOReNZ

a stony

-112-

128

toguther will other cindene such as the I8 october

memos

lagrial and

which

wmnfrartnstly.com

- unfortunatel

succeed in appearin

both logical and believable.

---

## Page 135

129

ARising From

Implications Phase Two Of the Opecation

significant depferences an

apparent betreen Phase One and Phace Two

upe

which reflut an the onganiged cume!

motivation and seriousness in fulfilling

it part of the bargain ouginally

potiated 1n 1960.

Finst, in Phase One, Roselli and

his colleagues demonshalad thai ability

to execute the contract on Castro by

naming their socce who was, indeed,

In a position close to Cartro, of Phare

Two the modus operande and the abelity

of the assassin on assassins becines

"quite rague. Harvey reported that Verore

access

had an asset in Cuba Who had

---

## Page 136

130

to someone in a restauant which Cartro

frequented iho coued admenuter le porses.

do fune 1962 lose reparted to Barry

Gal Verma had dispatched a three man

team to Cuba do recruit perms to

Kul Castro, in to Kill him themselves, mayke

wit paism pulls, If the apportuniy acore

Harvey said they had no specific plane

send, as aleady indicaled, the

cart of the organized fizues wroted changed.

makeu, granana, and Traffiante

allegedly retired fum the scene, nich

"maces". assuming the position of

Trapficante.

Verona remained. Is tha

c's encluded it is pesste

sastratte

What Roselle Kept.

trafficante, and sitably

---

## Page 137

fideed, it seems merelogical that al lout Roselli

and Harvey did Ascertaii the identis of macco

and for whaterer reason deeded to withhold them info

- 19-131

Gromeos, intorned of the proper,

lee plot.

_ The Commeble aque with the

¡CrA wat lan feines, at leut Trappucate

and gramass, were kept informed of the

proper of the plots.

What is perling is the introduction

of a reum simply upered to as "Marced"

into a hybly sensitive and Corest CIA

operation without any apparent

altempt by lu ChA to checks his

background on.

It seems t

asculain hus identity.

tests estra ordinary

sook that the to nould propel thre

plots poraed without perporming any

surity check Turther, although the

---

## Page 138

insert

ttta

132

A realed issue is whether" phases"

aclually wisted on whelker the opecations

to kill castro incomparsed dot a

antinous time period. the As indicated

pse premouly indicated the C17

macntains that the plot uns dormant

Jean the Bay of Meg. untl Honkey

assumed duction in.. the Sprig of 1962.

Both stakey and O lonell staled, hourever,

that they took howery. "tools over a

gong operation." the see dates of

what the cagony aperatis intacted

has sot been divulged

Onsidering

that loseli was able to immedeately

mobily his porces. in 1962 in repease

to Honey's repunt. and that the

---

## Page 139

insert.

1t66

133

mobilizatim in voted verma, whom

Trapfuante recruted is Bhace Ore, it seen

reasrable to assume that some of ta

individual in Phare the was carted actinly

after the Bay of Prep and

allemptiny to kal Cacho stortig the

probably

terrot ped, till attent thigh

of tt6/ until the adrent

of Sorret coldefiation. There effort,

horever, may well has been conducted

Without CIA Knoatedge and afain support

plots.

the theing of pendent organy clime sipin

---

## Page 140

ansel

2116=

-134

1967 IGR charactergs macco as Roselle's

man, it is more probable that

Trappiante, who had recruited all la

Cuban permud premouly used in the

attempts and who tantained the most

complete networds of Cuhan allies in Miam

and Cuba, provided thy individual. If

ins speculation is accurate, then it

duplap trafficante sain perporm a

ducet role dung Phare II, a function

attago every sounce. has denied.

We unry late 1962 and rail 1963

Decapret

to apparent - effort

to meet Cartoo Phace Two undramatically

and slowly terminated. I retrospect,

the rage ambiguous modies operandi,

the back of i dentily of the potential

---

## Page 141

#7=

135

anims, the totos rehane of Honvey

on Roselli for any information, and the ..

eemingly apathile desce of the CIA to corroberati

any formation from Noseli. ael conrerge

to posit the s

that organized crime uns not seriously

abtempting to assassinate. Carto apter

following

solidification of Soviet influence of

in the Cacho regimi. Trafficante, Lanstay,

and orker Chan casino ounc must hare

mid-

rayed by the spe 962 that

the gollen goose" If Harass had

hid it last egg, and that fortunes

wese to be made clicher. Certainly, histing

shows growing dancky caflies ins

---

## Page 142

178=136

the Bahamas and das Vegas, Trappicante

profats in the Dosenecan Heputtie, aid burgering

bolita opecations in Flouda arising fum (tu

1s influx y Cuban exile. Jurcher, organizif

may

har dittimenes

cume

asked that the new

juti Department s

crackdown

probably 180t. have

nould

I permitted. the to

wide open" Cita of the you-kennedy

the United states agatet

had succeeded

in ousting the Cuban rgime.)

ty analyzi is the papa ten dete

thi

analysis, however,

orga

chime

fares has

'of perpe

centy.

Crequently, while the united States

---

## Page 143

5793 137

gorenment, specipically the Cil, stell

possessed a viable intrect in avarsiating

Сато,. окданцев crme ded not.

Ipate tape rains to direntife.

attempts

lee Cartmo, propunzed crint

still had a

strong in

centivi

to

ofang the

CiA alisg

жжению,

specifically.

this incentive

to

utarlich a relationship.

nis the CIA FoR

dikegin us in thirty ing prosecutions

for uncelated oftenses and fore

sis chus

againt organyd eum.

blunting the

Thi

stom is more thoroughly

explace did asiated in been the

the following section.

---

## Page 144

720-138

0 F

2. MOTIVATION EaTE

то BE INvoued IN PloTs

SEP ORGANIZED CRIME

Derpite the reasons jent

precented to discolinie

allomple to kil

Castro, organized rime. sull had strang

munter to striny the Eit clong

specifually, this incentive ens to

estastich a relalunchip tult te CIA

for eutrequent.we

in tharuting

prosecution for unrelated offenses and

this thunting any justice Department

proceeding against organized crise.

The Committee

beliens that

onganized cume, whill recogmizing ite

berpets of estattiting a sappot ou

...ulationshup

unch

scional.

de CIA, antidin

in assassinating

---

## Page 145

=1a139

Cactio co regio cort po territory.

As already indiate, The Committer

telem the desice bibed with the

And others Factors jist mentioned.

solidifration of furiet influene. apta

сам оссилани it appean

onganizid

cume may only hase put ford

Ше "

apperiances" of involstment and good

faith in the plats to further. define a

ulatunship with the CIA. Indeed, the

,961 in

CIA prevention y prosecution in"la

Lan Vegas metap incident would hare

Gen mahlu, Roselli, and Giancara

empumation of the value of such a

i relatins hip and impetus for continuing

it in 1962 even though the arousination

---

## Page 146

140

of Carto may ing Anger hare been a

viable alteinalive..

The actems of maker, Yeneras,

and particularly howelli in the year

pollaring there plots support the

theony. As ulated in section II,

actually did

* there indinidual

a Chei: CIA affiliations

in attempts

and knoutedle of the plot? to hinder

law emporement prosecutions and objectises

the secers of some of their efforts

verfies the tremendow blackmail potential

they passeed. As tam Papich, tee

iF BI baison to the CIA, comimented

in may, 1967, Grancans and Roselle

---

## Page 147

128=141

had the cras. "ore a barred

beraun

of "What aperation" and hi doulted

What thee FBI hould h

@ do anythiry about,

esther Grancana

in Roselli becaun of "their purous

Mar What at

las! me group benefited

Jean. the acture of the anciscation plots.

---

## Page 148

14d

3. Relatiation theisy.

The Conmittee forens no evidenc

Was there operations provoked Prence.

Chato to amarinate Predent Kennedy

...un. retaliation.

the Canmillic al hes found no

endaci Cat Castro. Knew of CIA

spinsorship of thn certies on even

Knew of chen ensline puor to che

dece of Present Ninety Ecca it

Carto did ducerer ther wilene, hourerer,

We Canmittee does not bellen that Carlto

world. har connected. That ruth the CIR.

de len maid, anly a per persons knew

o CIA spinserchip; the Cuban opecators

and ary other engaged in penetiating

Ccha a dictly participating is

---

## Page 149

-1285

485-143

reportedly

the anarsation efforts in unertedly

tarted Wat Until Klats besnersmen...

on organized cum. spinsored the specation

An yurt induated is the f

nou

section.

. Ме. Сетт

ongariad crime.

participaled in thre

10

part to this

and then forter.

C/A. aling

Fry watership

comed

he exploited

whet subezuently

to present prosecutions of

du origi

cume pyiue involnd in the plo

---

## Page 150

185,448

Fate in the Wachyon Pert an destember 9, 1926,

Anderson cerealed that ex-CIA Gent

Wlam Harey, aloney Edward P. Monger,

and tater repuled mobite foln Roselli

were his sources

Commette has

dellermined that john Roselli ens the

person who informed barey & morgan

about the plat and the utatiation themy;

thes, only me son, John Roselli,

actually

Juicker, john

Noveli supplied all inpoimation сттк;

You apecalan. to Me CIA through ether

fame O'Connell on William Harvey

The Canmittee noth thas the.

desseminazi.car

details

publi dessemiatio dy the

---

## Page 151

1273, 45

I plots concipends ismarkably

to the shorts of john dolle to present

hi depulation in 1966 ail 194, and

to percut his proscition pa illyad

gambling aclintis in 1967.

There

concedences plus other endence to hom

led the Commitle to cinclude that

foln Roselli

manipulated → the jout of

the plots into the retaliation theory?

en efforts to force the CIA to

favorably interrine into he legal affais

to perent the further ductsue of the

plots in. general and the retaliation theory

1n particular and to

present punches

waves of public paranoia. The

not what in sume instances Jolen

Rovelli uns Scensful.

---

## Page 152

128,46

Even assuming. "that Cactio did

(1A. - organize cume plat and chat

that Rosell'i Fabricated the

retahation beory,

le. CIA spinsored them, the

it is unlikily.

Comile sull beliens? that Carto

would

har wailed to assarmating

the Present of the limitat Hak in

retaliation or the reams indicated

We tarue Analyais section. Apecqually,

Chere reasons are:

1 the.

= prospect of exposing Cuba

invasion and distruition

would not has been worth the risk;

the cect of

2) "changing a leader does not necessarly

change low system;

2) Carto may have icognized that amay

---

## Page 153

147

the leader of the "Unild Stath Kennedy

maintaned the least hostle approach tondits

Cutsa; and

4) the going pesspect of detente beliver

Cana and the lented Stats wored

!

han upained Cault fem ass arsinating au

Get American appeal.

---

## Page 154

,48.€

4. Related Organize Cune Activitios

The Committe poin

on indicaturi

material

What the unfanied cume peples

police

and

Packer eums introlied int

to

Kill Carin

participate

атм.

ation a Prenalut Kenne

but 1

any

Cuban aristance.

The Camittee vreerd endinn

that further rawn the possibility

tlaf variois

organized cume figure sets on this.

involnd in

alterapto

to assassinate Castio unrelated to tu Cas.

---

## Page 155

149

alice investigated

To aculan more information about

onganged Cume's Knoubedge about

Castro anarination plas the Comella

westgaled Norm Rothman,

Ro themer

poose who

was actine in operating various casinos

in Cuba before Che Castio takeon and

ho cmelpurently maintaine associations

wich organized cume and the Battala

# at vacuu titones

regime. Machina state he seed

as mangu of the sans souce. and

Capa catara Clubs 1 Cuba representia

the interers of the mannauns brothers

johr mateud.

o Pittsbugs

---

## Page 156

FBI files on Rochinan induat that

- a proposal to Keel Cactro uns snade to

Rachman as a "quid peo quo" u

which Pachmar expected

to. anori

enpusonment for

88 1960 gun. running

conviction. Durry an FBI in tinei

Rochinas stated. that to had been is

"permal contact with whit How

attorney Hang Hall Wilsm, as well a

Acclant attorney General Jole

Liegenthale, both of wailigton, Die. "and

Fastroke topol +26

member of the tennedy ademitatios.

Ja a deposition to to the Conmittee

take in Miami a April 16, 1978,

Rockinas exporde on the there to include

---

## Page 157

a sees of spatises teleiam

scummong hem to the White Here for

a series of theo or thee meetiap whech

office such memker of this staft and

colonced in a cmen con where

Rathman's assertance in proding

anlacts in sede Cuha was exploid at

says that;

the last meeting backimon

"one of them happened to dircuss

Ite arous nation of Cartrol nich me,

but not in a techneal any. you

Know, fart, n a casual any.

That mahout it. I cannot for the

marcus remember

ut lord for

4127

word

beraue it is too for back."

---

## Page 158

Itt

The endine" Negusting such an

aproach by Robeet. Kennedy is enterely.

unconotocated... and malles no sna

shes vrewed in lynt of the furtic Repartment

cockdorm on onganed crim... Juther,

it seems extremely dowtfel that any

with Rothmant

meleap.n thes topic would tres

han

occured

shed at the White Herme.

belleres it highly

Ctat

* such event occured.

The Canmillic allo revieired

endine which indudes that arpened

may hase bees

"Quou of de AMLASH operation during

its sistence.

---

## Page 159

153

The 1967 IOR edentified.

name Unt beliven the AMLIASH.

operation and organged the organisid

cume opecation... The IGR. did not

sufficiently analyze,

horever, that the carma deniminato

in two of the links was.

SAnto. TrAfficante.

a. LinK OnE

1 march, 1961, the CIA recured

inpormation.that. a hgh-rawling

millary. figure. in the Cartro regime

and a former pusmal secretay of

Carto both inched to difect. The

melilay oppren uns Rolando Cutda

100 decades (AMLASH) and the former

---

## Page 160

154

it:

seculary was juan Orto, the

operative used in Phase I of the

CIA-onganized cume peots. A alrealy

indicated, the 1967 FOR Attaily

cast documento that Trappicate

recruled Orta.

The Cannelle has determined

Wat aike than the chincidene of

both Orta and AMLASH peeking

infiltration at the same time there

is nothing to seggut a ratinship

cliveen the to men in allemply

to assassinate Cadro, not a cmimm

denominator such Trapperante,

Roseli, a grantana or anyather

menher of the Amerin gankling syndicato.

---

## Page 161

155

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF 1

DOCUMENT

as sedacta

b. Link two

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

-8:

gambling-syndicate.

In mid-March, 1965, Rafael Garcia Bongo, a noted

Cuban lawyer whose brother occupied the prestigious position

of Minister of Sports in Cuba, contacted CIA Station

personnel

in Madrid to inform the agency that "he was in contact with

a group of military officers who were planning to kill Castro"

(1967. I.G. :

Report, p.)...It quickly became clear to CIA

employees that Bongo's reference was to Cubila and the group

of military men who were allied with him in attempting to

depose Castro. Although the 1967: and 1977 (I.G. Reports are

silent as to their attitude toward Bongo's information, it

• :

must be assumed that they did not respond affirmatively since

the AMLASH operation was in progress at the time and Artime

was in the process of delivering arms caches to Cubela's people

within Cuba.

Interestingly, Bongo identified himself to Agency per-

sonnel as a lawyer for the Capri Hotel and Casino in Havana

who

had been jailed in July 1975 for a period of 75 days,

allegedly as

a reprisal for representing. Santo

Trafficante.

EBongo's utilization of the short prison term to establish

his "bona fides"|is questionable as trafficante was in jail

during August 1959. For the Cuban government to wait for 3

years

to exact retribution for that representation makes no

sense. Possibly, Bongo was involved in approaching the Castro

---

## Page 162

S COPY IS NOT

156

CIA RAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

FOR RELEASE.

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

as redlades

government in 1962 on Trafficante's behalf for permission

to reopen the Capri casino."

Bongo's trip to Madrid apparently involved more than

a contact with the CIA for he was arrested for counterfeiting

and held until his old client, Santo Trafficanto, arrived

with a suitcase full of cash to obtain his release, fee

interview-of fBI SA Vendall Sal:

a Seealso deposition at

Vietor Espinosa Hernandez UPresumably, Bongo was paroled

back to Cuba, at an unspecified later date, where he :died.

One aspect of the Bongo-Trafficante

relationship in

Madrid deserves fuller treatment although it is doubtful

hat anything more than supposition can result from further

exploration. "It has been reported by Jack Anderson that his

private and secret source until his death, John Roselli, had

reason to speculate that Cubans originally recruited by Santo

Trafficante to kill Castro were "turned around"

and sent

back to the United States where they were directly involved

in the assassination of President Kennedy. HotSee-Anderson

calumn:r-dated-9-7-767

interview by Fentonand

,: another columnist,

George Crile, carried the

story a step-further by suggesting that Trafficante became

a witting participant-in-the. cub

prime-Ministerls-plan.of

retaliationa

it this line of hypotheca-

tionnis adapted then the trip to Madrid by Bongo could assume

some sinister implicati Cinuchas the possibility that bongo's

real purpose in contacting the Madrid Station was to act as

---

## Page 163

15

7

a double agent for Castro in ascertaining, the nature and

scope of the AMLASH operation. Castro certainly became

aware of the Artime meetings with Cubela in the fall of

1964 since the list of charges upon which Cubela went to

trial in 1966 began with these Madrid meetings. If Castro

had begun his suspicions of Cubela's role with the CIA dur-

ing late 1964 or early 1965, it is likely that he would have

begun counter-intelligence measures to confirm his fears

which could have led to Castro sending Bongo to Spain to

contact the Agency. Given Trafficante's close ties to Bongo

(see also Aleman footnote in AMIASH"section), it can be postu-

lated that Trafficante was aware of Bongo's true mission

prior to his departure or became knowledgeable when he bailed

him out of jail in Madrid. (Unfortunately we-have no way of

knowing whether Bongo stopped in Miami to see Trafficante...

prior.

to going to Spain unless we could obtain the case file

from Secret Service of the Italian killed in Miami who was

supposed to be Bongo's partner according to S/A Wendall Sall.)

Trafficantercould have received news of Cubela's ties

with the Agency through his close associate Jorge Nobregas who

was described by Gorge Calie in his Washington Post article

(circa 8/17/76) as "having worked with the CIA, was in Cubela's

student revolutionary group in Cuba, and always close to

Trafficante. "

Actually, given the extent of Trafficante's high-level

contacts within the exile community and the low-level security

---

## Page 164

158

-15

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICANTION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

in the CIA exile operations, it is extremely logical that

Trafficante and other members of the underworld knew, in

some fashion, part or all of the AMLASH plot. The question

becomes: So what? Short of being able to blackmail the go-

vernment about the modus operendi of the 1960-62 events,

the significance of mob knowledge of AMLASH is not readily

apparent. (However, If Trafficante was in fact a double agent,

a whole other scenario emerges. now?

One further reference to Bongo surfaced during an

interview by Committee Staff with Jose Aléman on March 14,

1977 when Aleman related that Jorge Nobregas introduced Ale-

man to Trafficante. Santo Trafficante offered to assist

Aleman in obtaining a Teamster loan ostensibly out of grati-

tude for Aleman's relative (Bongo) representing Trafficante

in Cuba. Trafficante fully admits the Teamster loan proposal

which was to be arranged by Frank Ragano, Trafficante'e per-

sonal lawyer, who also represented Jimmy Hoffa and Frank Chanez

in criminal cases.

Of course, the most relevant aspèct of the Trafficante-

Aleman meetings in September 1962 to this Committee is the

statement attributed to Trafficante by Aleman that ". . •you

don't understand me. Kennedy's not going to make it to the

election. He is going to get hit." Aleman reported that

the inflamatory prediction occurred during a lengthy diatribe

against the Kennedy administration's campaign against Jimmy

---

## Page 165

159

I Trafficante was a double agut,

working for the cIA but accally

eupplying information to Cartro, teen

anache scenario eneyes. It is the

logical to arseme lat Cacto Knew of

aed CiA-

organized cume operations fern there

inception. As mentined earle sis

lou maleial Trafficante coued

has received a candid as lana

smuggling

bacotios entraband

for such information. Ces allo

duccused eather, hourerer, tu

Cummitte believes that exer if

Cao hard knowlife f to CIA

spisership 4, plot apist his life

---

## Page 166

160%

that 1

the would. not hase

provasud him to kill President Kennedy.

The benefit of peter Cotemporarious

Knoutede of the plots tot

nowed be to

neutralizi-their

effect. Creepuenly, Une Conmille

beliere. that any entacto betirea

a sitatiation dies not. effect thee.

untenablily of the ilaliation thery.

c. Link thre

contained in the 1967 FOR

The S5C noted that inpormatios

fran

Victon spinosa. Hernandey,

shich raved the

---

## Page 167

17-161

posititity that a lial o

belien the AM LASH operation

and 14 1960-62 217

iplits to

asassinate Canno welry underroll

cntacts.

---

## Page 168

wer

162

INTRODUCTTON

In its

concluding section of the Final Reporte

Developments After the Warren Commission, the Select Senate

Committee to Study Governmental Operation (SSC) speculated

that organized crime may have had a continuing knowledge.

of all CIA opertions against Castro during the 1960's.

"The 1967 I.G. Report noted that information given

by "a" suggested a link between the AMLASH operation and the

1960-1962 CIA plots to assassinate Castro using underworld

contacts.

In other words, the information "A" provided

raised the possibility that underworld figures who were aware

of the assassination plots in which william Harvey partici-

pated,

may have also been aware of the AMIASH operation."

— A review of the 1967

I.G. report does not sustain

the Senate's conjecture in that there is no available evidence

cited in the Report to suggest that "A" (Victor Spinosa Hernan-

dez) had knowledge of, or involvement with, any of the syn-

dicate or Cuban exiles who participated in Phase I or II of

the CIA-Mafia assassination.plots during 1960-62. What Book

It did was to seize upon the 1967's tentative identification

organi? ca

name links" between the 1960-62 gangster operation

and AMAsE intrique, and expand the amorphus nature of Lhose

"name links," which included "A," into a theory that "A" was.

the conduit through which the Syndicate became knowledgeable

of both the AMLASH operation and the initial CIA efforts to

---

## Page 169

163

eliminate Castro.

The only solid factual basis for Book It's tie-in

between AMIASH and the 1960-62 CIA syndicate plots is

Diese in upon Victor Espenosa's exile activities in June-

July 1963, which Book II ExHalid

_More, CIA files contained at least some FBI reports

"A," the Cuban exile who was involved in transporting

explosives to New Orleans in 1963. These reports detail

his involvement with anti-Castro exiles and 'underworla fi-

gures who were operating the guerilla training camp in New

Orleans in July 1963.

The "undervorld figures" reference relates to Mokie!

and William McLaney who have been considered organized crime

affiliates

by some law enforcement and media personnel.

(See profile.) Again, however, no evidence from any source

places McLaney into the early CIA plots to kill Castro or

into the AMLASH operation. A review of the June-July 1963

activities of McLaney and Victor Espinosa leads only to the

inference that their operation was a private limited venture

with no agency of syndicate support and very little chance

of success. (See Review of Lake Ponchatrain in McLaney Pro-

file. Footnote re Victor Espinosa.)

Moreover, the link between McLaney, Espinosa and the

organized crime principals connected to the initial CIA Castro

plots must be dissected in order to make a judgement as to

the 556

the likelihood of Book ta's speculation that the syndicate

held "inside" information on Agency operations in 1960-65.

---

## Page 170

sependi

preming.

-3=1

50164

Since the Senate did not attempt to interview either

of the McLaney brothers or Victor Espinosa in 1975 nor in

wire of the witnesse

Eo the 1960-62 plots into oF

their knowledge or relationship to McLaney or Espinosa, the

Senate's hypothetical question of underworld knowledge of

the full range of CIA Castro plots is based upon a minimum

of hard data and a maximum of free-wheeling conjecture.

The evidence linking Espinosa to any known organized

crime figures consists of his admission to being friends with

"Cappy" Rothman, Norman Rothman's son, and

a casual knowledge

of American gamblers gleaned from his student days of visit-

ing the Havana casinos.

15.

Mike McLaney

ista

Igure-whose ties to

organized crime have been seroiuly questioned within federal

law enforcement agencies since the 1950's but no solid evi-

dence has linked him to Trafficante, Rosseli or Giancana.

Since Mchaney has been most frequently mentioned as a "Lansky

man." To place a witting McLaney into the 1960-62 plots,

it requires a

series of major speculative hurdles which

include. (a) Myer Lansky was a plotter with Trafficante;

(b) Melaney was Lansky's "action" man; file) the various under-

world figures acted in concert in promoting anti-castro opera-

tions. None of these premises are easily supportable with

Factsat in decently did a leis

victon specia

---

## Page 171

-165

as indicated carlier, both

samgeancana and fobin Rovelli

ur murdered. Sam Graneand uss

shot in this has the basement

of his home in Chriago in fixe,

1975, feut pro to his scheduled

upeding the CIs insanied cume plots.

lilimony before lae ssc. fats

John Roselle's butchered body

uns found in ar dil drom incide

an oil drum inher was floating in

Key Biscayne Bay, Horida. in

steadily which was shortly

August, 1976, Betted lt afte his

Intimony bpore the sse rejarding to

CIA - organize cune plots.

Vacan theorn has surfaced

---

## Page 172

-166-

they. neu

Killed and who unas reposible

cheery ulerant to this insertiation

of the man pot t

15

don that geancars and

Roalli inu Killed becaue of then partrepati

..In the. Cartro anaratin plat and lie

SSC alleuph to clict informatin on. Whe

ploto. I the regard Trafficante

has be

mort often been the penn assigned

repositity for the deaths. On the

older hard, the justic Repeatment

mporned lu Canmilia Chat it bellinis

te hit

milders the mob that

onganged came pertained the minder

and that the the reasons thee unilated

to the CIA-organized crime plots.

---

## Page 173

-161

The futice Depaltment is still

investegatiny both murder. The Committe

has not uncorred iridence @ rebating

relerant to solvery thire menders.

The Committee does bellere, hourerer,

Wat a varely of motistens inspied the

deaths. There motinstems inclieded

inteinal 2to mob cmflict, expecully

in the case of Giancara, and participation

and knouted of the CIA - organized cumo

plots. The. Camellie Conseden it

highly probable that Trafficante tastic

a or dial axproved of and assisted

in the murders

fold

Roseli. To Committer belters that

Trafficant Trafficante b motiation woued

---

## Page 174

necenar стило

the arrannatios

Recdut Kundly

168-

The Carmitter

does not Delieri

that sucho

a beento maintan a lou propele

in conection much the CIA plots and

Ay to present didosure.

unkroun

of other pusms involved. in the plots as

well.as:

investigation of the plots might uncover.

FoR InstaNce, TRAFfIATi may hAve

had a coret ulatin sip with Colter

whech may

entailed

hay.

his

contratand throu

cuba.

into. the Uniled States.

---

## Page 175

-169-

Ior rasms alrealy indicated the

Commeltu dier not. beleen Cactio

ass assinated Prisedant Kennedy.

invertigation

As a result of serie

seat the Committe Mound

convincing

No "eridinc

the onganged crime fezeres and

other parms. voled in the

plot to. Kull. Cacto paiticipales

in the anarnation of Presidin

Kennedy cal withou any

Cuban assistane

---

## Page 176

170-

Creequenlly, althouh the deaches

of Rosellu and Graniona partially

an ulated at lent are

related

partially

saladee to the

CIA -onganized cumi

operations, it. Canmelte does not

belese that they are alated to

the asiars ration of Precedent Kennedy.

---

## Page 177

-171-

ConclusIoNs

The Committee males the

single. spAcE

And all

capital=

follourng.coclusions..

A. AMLASH OPERATION

1. The Committee finds no endince

What the AMLINA OPERATION ProvoKed

PREMIER. CASTRO TO ASSASSINATE.

PRESIDENT DENNEDY IN RETALLATION

2. The COmmITTEE HAS

7477

FORE NOT BEEN ABLE JU

ASCENTIN. WHETHEN THE. AMLAST

OPERATION... PrIOR TO THEDEATH OF

PRESIDENT. KENNERY CAN BE

CHANALTEN ISED..

AS AN ASSAAJSINATION

PLOT.

3. ASSUMING THAT AMLASH WAS NOT

AN ASSARSASSATIUN PLOT DURING

THe LifE Of president KENnEDy and

THAT CASTRO UNCOVERED ITS EXISTENCE

ANIs

SCO PE

THE COMMITTEE BELIEVES

іт

Is hogly wiellly that

САБТЛО ПОШВ

HAVE BEEN

---

## Page 178

-172-

PrOVOKED IN A MANNER SURRICIINS

TO INDULLE ASSASSINATINNO

4.

Assuming THAt AMLASH WAs An

ASSANSONATION PLOT DURINO THE

LIFE Of PRESIDENt KENNEDY ;

AND ThAT CASTRO UNCOVERED ITS

EXISTENCE AND SCOpE intiLly

THE COMMITTEE

it is

STILL BELIEVET A THAT CASTRO

would

MAVE RESURTE» TO ASSASSINATINO

THE President of the United States in

RETOLIBTION.

insert Recon ts

B. CIA- ORGANILED CRiME PLOTS

1.

TH comm.TTEE FINDS

NO EVIDENCE

THAT THESE OPERATIONS PROVOKED

PREMEIR CASTRO TO ASSASSINATE

PrES DENT KENNEDY IN

RETALIATION

2. THE COMMITIEZE FINAS

NO COnCLUSIVE

EVIDENCE THAT CASTRO

KNOZVOFGIA

SAMSO THEENISTENLG

Of THERE PLOTS

DURING thE lIFE lOf PRESIDENT KENNEDY,

EVEN

ANDIE CASTRO DID LEARN Of THER

EXISTENCE, THE COMMITTEE DOES NOT

---

## Page 179

-172-

PrOVOKED. IN A MANNER SURICINE

70 INDUCE ASSASS NATIONS.

PRESIDENT KOUNEIDY.. IN RETALIATION.

4. Assuming THAT AMLASH WAs.... An

ASSASSONATION PLOT....

DuMINk THE

THE COMMITTEE

BELLEUES JITAT

on the pont of

Any knoutedgend

ORGANITED CRIME

Of THE AM LISH OpERAtION ON

cRime Figues in vole in the CIA.

onganized cume plot And AMUnSH

would not AlteR the cmclusion

That casing

IN THE DAANINITION DE pReSIdent

Kennedy.

THE COMMITTEE FINDS

NO EVIDENCE

THAT THESE OPERATIONS PrOVOKED

PREMER CASTRO TO ASSASSINATE

PrEs seNt KeNnedy

RETALIATION.

2.... THE COMMITTEE FINOS

EVIDENCE MAT CASTRO

KNOW OF GIE

SAMSO THEEXISTENCE

OF THERE PLOTS

DURING thE lIFE Of PRESIDENT. KENNEDY;

EVEN

AND', E CASTRO DID LEARN Of THEM

EXISTENCE, THE COMMITTEE DOES NOT.

---

## Page 180

-173-

BELIEVE THAT CASTRO WOULD HAve recessar, ly...

CONNECTED THEM. WITH THE CIA.

. DURING THE LIFE OF PreSIDENT KENNEly ThAT

3. ASSUMiNG THAT CASTRO. DID LEARN...

OF THE EXISTENCE OF THESE PLOTS

AROLDUO AND THATTHE.CID.WAS

SpOnSORINGTHEM,. THE.COMmITTEE STILL

it is unlikly

BELIEVESA THAT CATTRO WOUIR

hAne RESORTED TO ASSASSINATINO

THE PreSIdeNT OF THE UNITED STATEs.

4. THE COMMITIGE BELIEULS THAT

ORGANIZED. CRIME

was INvOlVts in

ATTEMPTS

TO ASSASSINATE..

CASTRO

INDEDENDENT OF ANY CIA OPERATIONS.

5...

The COMmITTERE BELIEWES ThAT

THE PRINCIPAL REASON WHY ORGANIZED

CRIME PARTILIPATED INTHE PLOTS UNS

_TO STRING. THE CIA alOng AND THIUS

FOSTER A GROWING RELATIONSHIP

WHICH.couDSUbsegutuTLY..BE..GXPlO/ED

to prevent Prosecutions of THe.

ORGANIZED

FIGURES INVOlVED IN THE PLOTS

6 THE COmMITTEE..

BELIEVES THAT

USED

... JOHN ROSELLI CORRED THE FACTS OF

cRime

PLOTS

THE CIA - ORGANIZED CHE

TO

FABRICATE THE ROTALIATION ToROn

IN EFFORTS TO

Prevent.... His Prosecution.

11 LegAL maTTERs.

---

