# 180-10140-10449

## Page 1

180-10140-10449,

HAROLD I. FOMO, TENT.

FLOTOS. FAMINA, IND.

FORCAT H. LIÑNE. PA.

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STEW

MERINITY, COME

1MAD1

MINE NEED.

HANOLDS. LANTER, MICH

(202) 222-6624

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.5. House di Eepresentatites -

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 5. 1978

%.

2

MI.

Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

77-1455

Dear Mr.. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select

Committee on Assassinations requests access to all files and

File raferences pertainino to the following individuals:

1) Edward Jay Epstein

2) Marvin Kantor

3) Charlotte Bustos

4) Annie Goodpasture.'

In addition, please provide the Committee with access to

the following information:

5)

Any andall investigative reports prepared by E.

Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. Kennedy assas-

sination. "These reports were not necessarily pre-

pared during the period of Mt. Hunt's employment

with the CIA) ..

6)

The file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to

E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-related activities.

The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files

pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

1978.

However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested

that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

The Committee would also appreciate a response from the

CIA regarding the following matters:

086.631

140

1Đ4-10449

---

## Page 2

t. Patrick Carp

April 5, 1978

"Päge 2

tier

7) The CIA's written statement replying to the committee's

request of February 21, 1978 for an expianation of the

criteria that governed the opening of a 201 file dur-

ing the years 1958-64 was not responsiva to our inquiry

because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the

relevant time period.

accordingly, I am renewing our

request of February 21, 1978.

Imthe event that there

were no criteria governing the opening a such files

during that period, the committee would appreciate a

witten statement indicating that this was the case

8!

CIA document #563-810 indicates that there are 37 docu-

ments that should be in lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file

but which are missing fron the file. Furthermore, this

document also indicates that there should be a machine

listing of these documents attached as part of document

#563-810, but no such listing appears in the file.

Select Committee on Assassinations reguests that the

CIA provide a listing of such documents as well as a

written explanation of where those documents are 10-

cated and

why they do not appear in Oswald's 201 file.

Pursuant to my letter of December 27, 1977, I would like

to note that the document referred to in this paragraph

is a classified document.

9)

witer having reviewed both the aocuments contained li

he CIA's Illes on Priscilla Johnson MoMillai

and the

materials that were independently nade available to her

under the Privacy Act, it is apparent that the files

which were made available to the committee aid not in-

clude HILINGUAL materials. As the Committee has

already requested all

information contained in your

files on the individuals who

are the subjects of our

requests, please review the files that you have pre-

viously made available to us

for the parpose of ensui-

ing that all of the information pertaining te the

individuals involved

I has, in fact, been provided

10. Finally, the. Committee would like to interview all persons

who served as case officers in the Soviet Russian Division of

the CIA's lokyo Station

for the period 1963 through February

1964, as well as the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief(s) of

Station for that period. The Committee requests that the CIA

---

## Page 3

-÷.

M=.

Patrick Carpentier

April

5, 1978

Page 3

......

either make these persons available for our staff to interview

or provide their

last known address

so that we car contact them

directly.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

M. Nobit Blabs

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: bwd

"xr02 272 Cl.

---

