'180-10143-10096) 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS a OF SOCE

| BO NOT BEPRODU
fo mara on amas cperation in of RETURN TO ClA

No relevant info.

Was in Cuba in LL/59.

Phillips cover in jCuba was blown in Sept. 1959.

Phillips work involved propoganda operations. -

Worked as a SegjStaff ax Employee from gully gx _ 1955 to January 1956 at which
time he was converted to Staff Agent. Remsigned as S Agent on 13 August 1958.
People in Cuba at time who knew Phillips: Jack Malone and Carlos Todd

Cover approval for Phillips muse in operation approved in 14 May 1959,

requested 1 April 1959. Cover was Proprietor of a television programming
business in Havana.

Contract Agent in Chile, 1952-1954 ‘ Ps
Contract Agent, PBSuccess and PBIISTORY, 1954 QGPCQOD
Covert Associate, 1954-1955

Staff Agent, Cuba 1956-57

Staff Agent, BexBeirut, Lebanon, 1957-58

5 Septerber 1958 an OA was reguested for Phillips under his Psydo.
POA granted on x& Sept 1958 on the 9th.

Cables revéal he is in provess of moving back to US in February 1960.
OA was granted on 12 November 1959.
Phillips contrach was extended for one year on 19 August 1959.

cable says: "Upon arrival New York, Choadon requested phone Charron at
office ..." dated July 20, 1959.
This may have bean a TDY.

oo It was on a movie deal

Cable says that Phillips planning on going to Wash and NY 11 May per HQ intruction
dated 4 May 1959.

This may have been the TDY tit didn't happen until later. Another cable

ateed 3 April 1959 saty that hés trip to Washington for consultations before

film megotioations aproved for 6 April 1959.

Document transfer and Cross reference dated 10 December of 1958 on Phillips says:
"(There is a restricted CI/OA folder on the subject of this 201 held under
Cf11937."

Contract Employement effective tax 19 August 1958, He was in Havana to begin
y assignement in ths general time period also. .

Review of 201 file on US Citizen clasifys Phillips as "Former witting collab-
orator(relationship termingated )

Cable from Havana dated 28 April 1960 (Hava 4393)
"1. COS has tentatively approved 19-24 May leave for Aretz order he attend

family bisiness ZRMETARL.
2. If possible suggest Aretz-Choaden Meeting ZRMETAL 23 May."

Phillips contrach terminated 13 March 1960.

Phillips called to HQ for consultation in February 1960.

10143-/004l *


. 2

Phillips arrived in Cuba on 2h august 1959 acording to DIR 21429 and Mx
HAVA 2f@fx 2603. :
This was a return, he was evidently in DC and station said they needed him.

Phillips is in Caracas from 29 Septtember 4961958 to at least 8 Octover &
HAVA cable # 0502 "Phillips Delayed due iliness. Arriving CARA 28 Sept.
to director and CARA.

Phillips OA in 1958 requested by Dahlgren.

Phillips took job in Havana after resigning and leaving Lebanon.
Arrived Havana 8/58.

Most conspicuous thisng about file is that it does not go beyond the time
he left Havana in 1960.
