(180-10142-10404 {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

DRAFT - 11/3/78
+ B. Palmer

MANUEL RAY RIVERO

When he first came into prominence as a Cuban exile

leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was described as "softspoken and

unassuming", a person of "highest intellect, sincerity and
conviction" -- in other words, a natural leader.> In 1947,
the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the Cuban
Ministry of Public Works to study civil engineering at the
University of utah.” Ray was in the United States for two
years before returning to his native Cuba in 1949 and
obtaining various positions in the engineering field, one of
4 . which was project manager for the construction of the

Hy Havana Hilton Hotel.

Reacting to the excesses of the military rule of

Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement

in 1957 and began supervising sabotage and acts of terrorism

: against the Government sll His political posture and active
resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who,

upon assuming control of the government of Cuba, appointed

Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959.° Within a
few months of his appointment, Ray confided to two anti-Castro
Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of Communism in
the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire against

"El Lider Maximo." i

Ray's tenure in Castro's government was short-lived. He

—_— THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.

10142 ~~



DRAFT - 11/3/78 + Manuel Ray Rivero
B. Palmer - page 2
definite reason for this severence has been documented but,
according to one source, Ray did not leave Castro because of
ideological or policy discrepancies but rather because of a
personality clash with Castro's. Minister of Labor who- almost
shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting. ® Another theory
about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare
Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary
hero with whom Ray had been associated.?
For whatever reason, Ray did continue, to permit his name
to be associated with the Castro regime?® until May 1960
when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People cure}
The MRP wasganti-Castro organization which believed that
the ideas and aims of the democratic left best suited the

2

needs and aspirations of the Cuban people. It did not wish

to reinstate the 1940 Cuban Constitution, rather it favored
continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginning of
his regime? and advocated the regulation of private investment
and nationalization of all utilities. 14 Associated with Ray

in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon

15

Barquin, Rogelio Cisneros, Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Felipe

Pazos.1®

Organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was

a Working

considered the most important underground group.
in tightly organized cells, the leadership in one province

was unaware of the identities of their counterparts in other



4
i

DRAFT - MANUEL.RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78

Page 3

in other provinces. 1® The MDC engaged in acts= of sabotage
and was supplied with explosives sent by launches from the
Florida Keys.2? Se.

Having waited until May, 1960 to organize his resistance
group, Ray was criticized as being suspiciously tardy to the
anti-Castro movmement.2° Charges of "Fidelism without Fidel"
were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist
ideologies. 7! Perhaps for these reasons, Ray's background
was questioned by some in the State Department? and the Miami
CIA station’? when, in the summer of 1960, ‘he was being re-
cruited by the CIA in Cuba to become a member of the Frente
Révolucionario Democratico (FRD), a newly. formed anti-Castro
organization sponsored by the cra.*4 The Agency considered him

25 and facilitated his clandestine

an important political asset
entrance into the United states”° on November 10, 1960.27
Nevertheless, there was internal conflict within the
CIA about Ray's political compatibility to United States
government policy. In a CIA Memo for Record, dated November 21,
1960, one Agency officer declared, "... Ray dia not politically
represent anything to cheer about."28 A CIA officer who met
privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political
posture was "doubtful" as far as U. S. government acceptance
was concerned, °? and a further assessment portrayed Ray as so

far "left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

U. S. interests as castrd2°



DRAFT -. MANUEL RAY, RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 4

Some prominent Cuban emigres also expressed negative
opinions about Ray, among them Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, president
of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his
program too Marxist?! and declared that Ray was bitterly
anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his think-
ing.32 Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to
banning the Communist Party and in favor of “nationalizing
everything."33 Although aware of his controversial political
philosophy, the CIA continued to actively recruit Ray to join
the FRD34 because the White House and State Department. pushed
for his inclusion.35

Ray received{ F411 operational approval as a "political
asset" Jon February 7, 196136 but resisted joining the newly
formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had
resisted inclusion into the FRD. He said he felt the members
of the CRC were too restrained and he did not want to become
a part of a situation in which someone else was running the
show for the exiles.37  HoWever, three weekg before the Bay of
Pigs invasion, Ray was persuaded to join the CRC as a show of
unity. 38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA
investigators that he was aware of the fact that certain in-
fluential and wealthy Americans, among than former Ambassador
William Pawley, were opposed to him and that a lot of heavy
propaganda was being circulated accusing him of being a

Communist. 39



DRAFT - MANUEL RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 5 :

Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs
invasion. In a Miami news Papeoreane on May 28, 1961, he said
the major reason for the MRP break with the CRC was that the
Council had failed to live up to the written promises given
it in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before
joining the organization. 49 The first condition had been that
the Council was to give first priority to the underground
fighters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly,

Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the
Batista regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he
said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-

ment of invasion military leaders. 41

Ray told the assembled
newsmen that his program to overthrow Castro was based on
maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,
and that he thought the leadership of this underground should
come from Cubans who could prove they had access to such a

potential force. 42

Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the
Council, 43 claiming that the group had an effective underground
organization but needed material and financial support. 44 Ray
felt the MRP had to be allowed to plan its own operations and
broaden its base of financial support..to include sympathetic

Latin American governments. 45

46

He was totally opposed to another

large invasion attempt.



DRAFT - MANUEL RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 6

The Miami CIA station recommended Ray be given an
initial $50,000 for operational expenses.47 Reaction at
CIA headquarters was immediate: Within 24 hours a Memo for

the Record was circulated, objecting to the Miami Station's

recommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any
substantial military actions against Castro.48 Ray was told
to submit a "prospectus" of his plans for the MRP and advised
that no financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan

was reviewed.49

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he
received sympathetic support for the MRP from the Governor
of that island, Luis Munoz Marin, who personally liked Ray.°0
While Ray was in Puerto Rico, a member of the MRP underground

in Cuba reported to the MRP Executive Council that he had been

in contact with the CIA and was told by the Agency that no
material resources would be available for the group until
Manuel Ray was dismissed as general coordinator.51! charging

the CIA with repeated interference in the affairs of the MRP,

Ray resigned so that there Wouldn't be any obstacle to the
group's cohesion. 52

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning Board an-
nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a-year position as
consultant to that Board. >3 Although there was no evidence
that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray
54

was looked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican officials

and he endeavored to rebuild the MRP with Cuban exiles residing

there. 55



DRAFT -. MANUEL RAY, RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 7

Although reinstated into the national leadership of the

A : 5
MRP in April, 1962, : Ray began formulating plans for a new
anti-Castro organization, Junta Revolucionario Cubana (gsuRE) >”

which, he said, would be only political in nature .°° ~ Ray

freely admitted that this group, organized in July, 1962 ae
would .cooperate with the CRC but ultimately hoped to dominate
it. 6?

Concurrent with his JURE activities, Ray began giving
information to the CIA regarding possible recruitment or
defection of Castro officials’: Specifically, he discussed
plans with the CIA to approach the Cuban Ambassador to
Mexico. °7 The CIA, deciding he had such capabilities,
recommended he be given $84,000 over a six-month period to
set up an intelligence network inside Cuba and create a
recruitment or defection capability in selected Latin American
countries. ©? The degree of Ray's success in this area is
not documented, but his efforts continued into the summer of
1963 and involved recruitment activities in France and
seigium.4{ “the Chief of Station in paris as so impressed
by Ray's abilities that he recommended he be used more
extensively in this eapacity.°°

In June, 1963, the CIA inaugurated the concept of
"Autonomous Operations", under which JURE could be financed
independently, not through the erc.°° Military operations

were also initiated” with Rogelio Cisneros as JURE military

i 8
coordinator.°®



DRAFT - MANUEL RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 8

Under his interpretation of the "Rules of Engagement of
the Autonomous Operations", Cisneros felt that JURE was not
obligated to report its military or political plans to the
CIA but that the Agency was obligated to finance JURE's
purchase of military equipment. ©?

By the. fall of 1963, Ray was devoting his full time to
JURE, 7° traveling extensively in Latin American countries to
gain support which would allow JURE to mount resistance
operations inside Cuba/? Ray told this Committee that he
and Cisneros were in Caracas for this purpose on November 22,
1963. He remembers that the assistant to the President of
Venezuela came into the JURE meeting shortly after lunch that
72

day and announced that President Kennedy had been shot.

In January, 1964, Ray's organization was making plans

to move their operations to Costa Rica’3 and, at the same time,
establish a guerrilla training base in venezuela.’4 He also
75

began to formulate plans for his own infiltration into Cuba

declaring that he would turn the operation of JURE over to
76

Rogelio Cisneros during his absence.



DRAFT - Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 9

Ray's plan was delayed until May, at which time he quit
his job in Puerto Rico and dropped out of sight?” His in-
filtration plans were known throughout the Miami Cuban exile
community. /®goon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered
a full-scale military alert and rounded up scores of suspected
Ray supporters. a

After several days of bad weather and dodging Cuban patrol
boats, Ray and his crew of seven? “ineluding a reporter-
photographer team from LIFE ogaes wets landed at the
Anguilla Cays, 40 miles off the Cuban coastine There Ray
intended to make a final equipment check and a final radio
transmission.

Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla Cays
were heavily patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who
owned them. °4 The British discovered Ray and his group and
their cache of weapons and explosives, arrested them for illegal
entry into the Bahamas and took them to nassau. °° The minimal
fine of $14 was levied on each member of the group and each
was admonished to never tresspass equine

Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as
ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, “and he

knows I'm coming* ae



DRAFT - MANUEL: RAY RIVERO
Page. #')0

Compounding Rays: problems: was: the reyelation by: the FBI
and U.S. Treasury tHat Rogelio Cisneros had illegally purchased
$50,000 worth of arms: for JURE from-a California arms manu-
facturer, Tt also cauged the CIA considerable Ser errant
The Agency’ denied Knowledge of the purchase to Revenue.
officials and, because. of the autgnomous nature of its relation-
ship with JURE, did not make any attempt to stop Revenue's
investigation. The Agency: now; however, told Ray that he

a
would have to move all his operations: outside U. S, territory.

In order to shore. up Hits: waning credibility within the
Cuban exile ‘community, Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in

July, 1964 but, again, his boat developed motor trouble and
sai? : :
the plan was: aborted, The failure this. time led three

43 OS
exile groups to withdraw: from JURE,

All these events, from May through. July, resulted ina
CIA decision to stop financing Ray until he ceased all

44
activities: from the U.S. mainland.°* The. Agency: authorized a
BRIT
final payment of $75,000 to the group to facilitate the move,

. B8-96
thereby “closing the books"*-on JURE. 4

47
Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968 re

although. it was relatively ineffective. He personally main-

tained an interest in antisCastro activities, In 1969, he



DRAFT- MANUEL RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page t&\\
called togethera congress of Cuban exiles to create a new
organization’ ?® As late as 1972, he was actively engaged in
the formulation of the People's Revolutionary Party, hoping
to reinvigorate the anti-Castro eee but it, too, failed
to make an impact. it

Ray still resides in Puerto Rico and heads his own

101
engineering consulting firm in San Juan. ?



FOOTNOTES
MANUEL RAY RIVERO
1. CIA/Deputy Director Operations (DDO), Manuel Ray Rivero (Ray)
Volume II, Cable to Director fro ‘MASH, }11/17/60

2. HSCA #006468, p. 9, Item 8, FBI Manolo Ray References,
Section 2

RK pesreee  oBicol

4. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,
Interview of Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales

5. Ibid

6. Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

Edition, p. 91 \

7. HSCA #005990, p. 2, FBI Correlation Study, Manolo Ray,
File #97-4546, Section 1.

8. CIA/DDO Ray Volume VII, Memo from Jack Malone, former
manager, Kings Ranch, Cuba, dated 7/16/62

9. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Information Report, 3/16/61,
Subject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts of
Manuel Ray Rivero

10. Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 92

| 11. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, Interview
: of Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales

12. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, 6/9/62 study of program for
liberation of Cuba submitted by Ray

13. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director frorf Mast] 11/17/60
14. Tbid
15. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Organization of MRP

16. Give Us This’ Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 92

17. New York Times, April 10, 1961, Castro Foes Map Multiple
Forays, by Tad Szulc
18. Ibid : :

Ibid
Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popula’ Library. Edition 7
n[watlace Parlett.
and Jorge BerufT,

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Contact Report fro
10/17/60, Subject: Meeting with Juan Estev
10/13/60



*, Footnotes - Manuel: Ray Rivero
Page 2

22. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume I, Memo to WH/4 Chief from Acting
Chief, WH, 9/27/60, Subject: State Approval to Include
Manuel Ray Rivero into the FRD Complex.

23. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume I, Cable fro_uasti eo WH/9, 9/29/60

24: CIA/DDO, Ray Volume 1, Meeting with Raul Chibas, 9/7/60

25. Ibid

26. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director froi ‘wasn ,)11/5/60
27. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director fxoff_ Masi] 11/11/60
28. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Memo for Record,. 11/21/60

Subject: Meeting with King and Esterline on Subject of
Handling MRP

\

: 29. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director fron{iuasn,]
“i 11/17/60

30. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Memo for Record, 642/61, Subjects
Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP from James A. Noel |

31. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume III, Information Report from U.S.
Citizen, Free-lance writer and part-time sugar broker,
12/22/60

32. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Memo to S - Dr. Berle from
ARA - Philip W. Bonsal, 3/16/61, Subject: Recent Cuban
Developments

33. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Cable to Bell from JMWAVE, 3/1/61

34. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume II, Cable to Director frofi MasH,] 11/17/60

35. Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, pp. 172-73

36. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, administrative form

37 HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, Interview
with Manolo Ray Rivero, from Fonzi/Gonzales

38. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IV, Memo for Record, 27 March 1961
by Gerald Droller, Subject: Ray Accepts Appointment to
Council ....

y
39. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blake, 6/28/78, p. 4,
Interview with Manolo Ray Rivero, from Fonzi/Gonzales



Footnotes, -. Manuel ‘Ray Rivero

Page 3

40. New York Times, 5/28/61, One Cuban Group Quits Exile Body
by Sam Pope Brewer

41. Ibid Ee

42. Ibid

43.  CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Memo for Record, 6/2/61, Subject:
. Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP, from James A. Noel)

44. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Cable to Bell from JMWAVE,
4/29/61, #0923

45. Ibid

46. Ibid

47.  CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Cable to Bell from JMWAVE
5/4/61, # 1312 :

48. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume V, Memo for Record, 5/5/61 from
Calvin. Hicks, WH/4/PM/Operations

49. CIA/DDO, Ray Vglume V, Memo for Record, 6/2/61, from
James A. Noel

50. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, Memo for Record - SECRET, 12/19/61
Subject: Miscellaneous Items Discussed with Dr. Miro on
18 December 1961

51. . New York Times, July 17, 1961, Cuba Exile Group Criticizes
CIA, by Peter Kihss

52. Ibid

53. CIA/DDO, Ray olume VI, Memo for Chief/WH Division,
10/10/61 frot Warren S. Yauger, /Subject; General ~ Cuban
Matters; SpeCtfic - Manuel (Marlo) Ray

54. _CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Cable, 7/2/62 to Director from

[sen Juan "]

55. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, Memo for Record, SECRET,
19 December 1961, Subject: Miscellaneous Items discussed
with Dr. Miro on 18 Secember 1961

56. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VI, Revolutionary Movement of the
People: National Leadership, 4/20/62

57. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Memo for Chief, Task Force W

from Alfonso Rodriguez, 7/25/62, Subject: Manolo Ray
Meeting in New York



, Footnotes - Manuel Ray Rivero
*. Page 4

58. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Memo to Chief, Task Force W
from Alfonso Rodriguez, 7/12/62, Subject: Manolo Ray
Rivero

59. CIA/DDO, JURE Volume I, Cable to Director fro-San
Juan /}7/28/62

60. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Memo for Chief, TAsk Force W
from Alfonso Rodriguez, 7/12/62, Subject: Manolo Ray Rivero

61. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Cable 7/25/62
62. Ibid
63. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume VII, Memo to Chief, Task Force W

from Alfonso Rodriguez, 8/24/62, eine ta Operationsl
Use of Ray Expenditure of Funds

64. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IX, Cable to Director fro Paris,]
6/19/63, #77272

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume IX, Dispatch to Chief, WE, from
COS/Paris,]7/2/63, Contact Reportjon Meeting with Manolo
Ray in Paris 13 June 1963, signed Elbridge 0. Jervay ]

66. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVI, Memo to Director from Chief/WH
Division, 7/9/64, Subject: Chronology of Concept of
: . Autonomous Operations and Summary of Financial Support
on to Manuel Artime

67. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume X, Memo for Record, 8/23/63 from
Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: Ray Contact Report

68. HSCA #009005, p. 7, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,
Interview with Manolo Ray Rivero by Fonzi/Gonzales

69. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume X - Cable to Director from JMWAVE,
9/11/63

70. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XI, Draft, 10/4/63 by Rodriguez,
Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero

. 71. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XI, Cable to Chief, Special Affiars
Staff from JMWAVE/CS, 10/22/63

72. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,
Interview with Manolo Ray Rivero by Fonzi/Gonzales

73. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XII, Cable to Director from JMWAVE
1/14/64

74. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XII, Intelligence Information Cable,
2/4/64



Footnotes - Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 5

75. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIII, Cable to Director from JMWAVE
3/28/64

76. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIII, Memo for Chief, WH Division
4/14/64 from Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: My Meeting
with Ray on 13 April 1964

77. Time, The Hemisphere - Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

78. Ibid
79. Ibid
80. Ibid

81. CIA/DDO Ray Volume XIV; Cable to Director from JMWAVE,
5/20/64 and Ray Volume XV, Cable to Director from
JMWAVE, 6/3/64

82. Time, The Hemisphere - Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

83. Ibid
84. Ibid
85. Ibid
oa 86. Ibid
87. Ibid

88. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XIV, Memo for Record, 5/20/64 from
Samuel Halpern, Subject: JURE Purchase of Arms

89. Ibid

90. Ibid a

91. ‘CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XV, Memo for Record, 6/29/64 from
Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: Establishment of Base
Abroad, Manuel Ray Rivero

92. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVI, Cable to Director fro susarR,)
7/15/64 me

93. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVI, Wire service printout, Miami,
Florida, July 24, 1964

94. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XV, Memo for Record, 6/29/64 from
Alfonso Rodriguez, Subject: Establishment of Base Abroad,
Manuel Ray Rivero



Footnotes - Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 6

95.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

iol.

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVII, Autonomous Operations -
Operating Plan

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVII, Memo for Record, draft,
9/22/64 from Alfonso Rodriguez

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume XVIII, Cable, Cite WH/Miami, #2233
6/4/69

Ibid

HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, Interview
with Manolo Ray Rivero by Fonzi/Gonzales

Ibid

Ibid

