# 180-10142-10002

## Page 1

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK 12

Folder 10

oops

Goose Documerd

163100-2

Tan Ayorked alone and faced

to dative

201-323871

-there is a manilla

LT NOI

APODUCE

RETURN

TO

CIA

Chicago Feld Office and provided

hicago.

thes.

o Panama.

3.

Summer of 961-Caine metin

Meeti.

underresisa interous

1942-10008

---

## Page 2

4. Octobey al- Cani cirate

marn prosa Panama

reported his findings of attitudes

in Central Alresica toward US.

and offered shis serice to thirs

5. Upril 42-6 airo visited. Cla

agency

Memo

WH-429

409243 94-63

asino....

---

## Page 3

9 Sept 11, 63

Torace Jpeed.

imested. PC.SA/CSA on Laisi

0. sex).

'no indiestion il ci gisiee

Reie" nuatior tee Biti

A Ny ofie inpo ого peono reprai

слон, аро

iemo i with egenet ante mstin.

URE.wnoipuschaad.arm.tou.11

dated 9-12

1967 - 07 Piles tow FBZ

inittated '

urvea

an Cain

becauae a Malia connectione.

and recammera (Cl terminate

axsociaiar.a.c.am

13

May lụ "t

Axs agen ir

кудаскін

Concluded that thee in no inoucii

he received'

aiy coorperoatian.

---

## Page 4

DCD Vile: 09.2692

Memo. writtem l

Fel. 23, 6l.

4 Ahmarin

(no aire toliphoned Colmanne: 2-2161

not mentioned is summary and

кав обра вий нао ви Кода

7 suman cas heads Is susan

execyically under the purisdictos

1 ABel rather than Cmys,

Lemo to

acting icago

196515

---

## Page 5

Menia

2-12-60

to Chief Contad Duracon

fron

Xoamano...

Bai weze canceled.

→ A Process sheet for 00/C Collections

date is ques

2-21-67

ain is so a partrein lau

---

## Page 6

hall been contacted

---

## Page 7

Mrs. G. Stanky Brown - State

Dept

Edward freers Reviewed 6

..:rs....

............

---

