# 180-10145-10390

## Page 1

180-10145-10390

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14112407

8/ 15/78

3/PV

Fill Title: lanes. Haold

201-18446

A werew of tuld base's 201 file indicates that the bulle

of the mateual contaired theres concerts the percod 1930-1935;

dising wiel tike he sewed as a joundlet he shanghai and

was wooteed in Commusust Pasty lost actuatie

The silly wede aces of CIA battlest In chaals appears in

the 201 file. in the fliving arenests:

03

1) 25 tune 195/ Mesandur, Douglas D. Pure, Deputy

This doenent requests an aimstion namickeck for

purpose of attemusing valaty of wanes that leases is

symbatite to pra a connected with lonnet actuaties.

It appears that wilder, in his position as as addict bi tee

Cait i piglete for the verd trundation is in a postibe to

te in contest wete e covert agent of the CIA who was, cated

upon by the Fird trundation. to prevent some suggestions fr

a tae last progran. End Houndation remains unaware of tHA

eterection. wites covert ageit

2) 7 Nonbe 1951 Menandun, Secuty Affece, Robert Cunnerghain

to Nast Bereter for Petey lordination.

Tls memo appears responsive to request in t above. It

state that sanes had been unnected with at least 2 factions

of terenest Party while teng in thee last and tiet 'sture.

cautiok should he need in contacting a asting with silent

suther investigatter indicates that while suet dinner any cures?

Background Une Only

Do Not Reproduce

180-1145-10200

---

## Page 2

11112408

Commuset Party afflatin, his screations intertice are diglly

question able i his political sympathy. Are not preseatty bele

unqualfedly westied

3/2 hoes Reference torn dated dated 26-uae1956; tile No. I6-5237;

Souce: CI/OA; Subject: Hacold R. Deares

His fors states." There is a Mstuted CI/O7 foldes on

the sugeet of thes 201 held In RI/AR File, Hack-CIA-Bers it.".

4) Dement Irrafer And loss Referekle form deted I Sep 175s

Indicatoo let there is a sentucted II/DA folder on this sulliset

of this 201 cheld under 1°5237.

5) 4 Taxuary 1975 Reel of 201 Sale 11 Ml.S. Utezen Lette.

the 201 file on bases ds a coustintelegrace ease

1) Personalty (201) File Requent Dated: 26 dug:57 Hrom: FE/2/CE

File is marked "Nos sensitove"

To "Soure Document"

Coustry of Residence: Char

Actcon. Dext: FE/2/LE

tile is i Permanent Charge and is "Restricted".

sigied ly: Silly s. Hundlack]

There are sevual FBI reports in fradls Whick are all sealed.

SIGNET

---

## Page 3

11112409

Kandor, Yarea 6-89136

A review of KANTOR's file (C-89136) indicetes Ageney interest

In sulyet It 1961.

Antedated PRO, Pact Induates that Hentr was work or May 9,1934.

in their York lity. He is listed as a US. Utizen the, et that like, was

a staeat. it the Unerty of operhagen, tree Plads. Hes travel

Mitede the country of preseat Modeace i leted as ollows.

seamark July 26,1957-Mry 31,1958..

455K ...

May 31, 1958- July 9, 1958. It stay cuth an ule in InsE).

seamack uly 9. 1958-10. 25, 1958.

4.S.A.

Nor. 25, 1958-5a2.30,1959

demark. Ган. 30, 1959. Present

in the sat Sidle, and sore of sitever

He sewed in the UMC. from 1952 to 1955p and in the UST Renewe

from 1955 vatil Oct 8,1960. Bott of dis pareats were bork in luna

A equet for a P00 fo order to cess Subjatta RsASKIN

KIMPROVE And ICHARVEST potential was made on Feb. 17,1961

dy Richard H. Walch, WE-I/Dernack.

a POA was granted fo contact, asscment and plygrape orly on

March 1, 1961 in a memo to Chief, NE /I/ Dermack, Atts: Kickard Halsh

Cables indirate that Kanth was met ty RAmEs under alias. on.

that waiting is estart i pete

that cale, dated lug. 15 1981, to Dieta pom (perties idicalis that

LAMEY SnoRa recontaCt Subject Uno just returned from Hugslara before departere

for new youk is carly serene.

---

