# 180-10143-10179

## Page 1

180-10143-10179

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992™

restle wizelman

SECRET

Gordon Barton McLendon

11110000- 11110019

Box 28

Folder

31

ITEM A I

0:# sate 2/a7152: subject is pres. of a co [which will proude.

accreditation

to a contract agent of this organization.

It is not expected that subject will learn of the agents

connection with this organization however. Category: Covert Assocrate

Military History

1942- Entere a Nayy Japanese Language school

1943- Graduated Nauy Japanese Language Schoo

1944-Commissined u.d. Nauy - Assigned as Intelligence

officer, ONI

Discharged as Lt

+9: 1946- Attended Harvard Law school

wife is the daughter of James A. Noe, former governer

of Louisiana.

THIS COPY IS NOT

@. 7-24-sa-[covert secunty clearance denied ?FOR RELEASE.

@ Envelope- 3rd Aggacy

@ Background investigation did January 1966

bONI. Background inuestigaten - April 1943

@ Croil Seruke Commissrun Backgrounc investigation atd

may196d

@I FBI Repurt

,4/22/55 Title: Gorden mckendun; Howardl.

Daws-.uictim

@FBI Repurt 4/19/55 Title: As abuve

@ memo ard 7/25/50 reflecting dentity of confidential

informant in 1952 Background Investigatzen

Background Investigation did Tune 1952

ONI Background Investigation Ate April 1943(same

as abue)

SECRET

1 80-10143-10179

---

## Page 2

SECRET

-2-

1111CCO:

Melenden (continued)

6 se meno dated 3-27-78-from os stating In Dec 1965

/the Directorate of operations again requested a covert securry

Approval on subject in his position with the melenden

Broadcasting System, Dallas. Field investigation was'basically

favorable"

mentions a 201.

471-986

SECRET

---

## Page 3

3

111100.

SEGREN

"Request replies to rets Leeferences are MAst 06a5)

masH 0891). FBI still has open debts case Ret A and has

called several times. Also desire give positive anier to

Santago Rey on ref ß."

No responding cable frum Hag.

is contained in this file.

The tile cuntained two memuranda for the recora prepared

by

dated June 30, 1961 and July 10, 1961.

The June 30. memo contains the following information:

a- Rothman's DOB IS 26 DeL 1914; POB is Bronx, Ny.

b- "When Rothman first came to CIA's attention in

Sept, 1958, he was living in Dallas, Texas and was

allegedly engaged in public relations work. According to his wite,..

Gloria, he made a one-week trop to Los Angelos in September

on undisclosed business."

c-"In Out 1959, Rothman was managing the Biltmore

Terrace Hotel in miami trom which he was reported the FeI

to besupplying an anti-castro organization with arms which

he obtained through u.s. gangslers....

d- Following Pittsburgh conviction, Rothman went to

Chicago, Iwhere he surrendered an charges of playing a key role

un one of the biggest robberies in modern criminal history, the

# 13,5 million losting os a Canadian bank.....

"Robbery was

touched. off when the Canadian branch uf the mafia recerved a

hurry up urder from the caribbean for arms. The canadian

mata did not have the money to buy arms, but it knew how

to get hands on the contents of the Brockville, Ontario bank.

It called upon the u.s. Matia

that Rothman entered the p sEllE aristance, and it was then

was cherged." Subsequently

---

## Page 4

SECRET

portions at lost turned up in Shanghai, Argentina, cuba,

and Australla."

e"Before Rothman was tracked down in connection with the above

crimes, he was reported by the FBI as traveling to bucatan to

seek a base of operations against the castro gout. In this enter-

prise he was associated with (Teddy) Whitehouse Insua, formerly

ot the cuban Gruil Aeronautical Associatiun, ex-Culonal

Orlando Piédra Negueruela o, former member of BRAC and

head of Cuban Bureau of Investigationa

, and Colonel Roberto

Fernandez Miranda, brother-in-law of Batista and former

commander of the presidential guards as well as president

of the National Sports Commission. While no mention is made

of Rolando masterner in this connection, Rothman has engaged

in many exploits and deals with masterrer."

f. "In Sept 1960 Rothman still out on 850,000 bond,

made an

approach to Frank Fiorini, soldier of fortune,

oftering to obtain two. migs- one flown. by a Crech

and another by a Cuban. Fiorini felt that lothman's interest

was stimulated by a straight protet motive or by hopes

for favorable treatment regarding the fed. case againsthim."

9. " In oct. 1960, Rothman again appeared in Dallas,

where he approachec Robert E. Grinnan, and oil

contracts promotion man. Rothman claimed to have

connections with Nor-Roth Industries of v.V.l and stated

that clients of his had an interest in purchasing ⅔ million

netric tons of diesal fuel oil and. I milliun metrictons

of crude oil to be delivered ouer a five-year period

to Hamberg, bermany. GresseRt saled by the otter,

---

## Page 5

11110004

SENNET.

reported to the FBI. He went to N.f. In Nouember and met

Rothman and the other principals of the deal

, a mary

Talley and a Dr. Phillip Paneth de Panay. Largely

because of orinnan's suspicions the deal was never

consumated."

h." As of December 1960, Rothman was luing in

Dallas, Texas."'

The second memorandum for the record (July 10, 1961)

contains additionzl background information and an updated

location on Rothman. The memo indicates Bathr during

the Batista regime, Rothman was the superuidor of

slot machines in camaguey province under the national

superussor, Alberto Ardura moya, who was one ashe

at the tropicana nightclub in Havana. The memo states

that recent reports place Rothman in miami.

The file also contains a memorandum for the

Deputy Chiet of the western Hemisphere Diussion from Clarks

wisimmons]re a meeting with Rothman and David M.

mcConnell. The memo is cated June 30,1961: The meeting

occurred on tune 29,1961, at the Deputy Alturney veneral's office

and was for the purpose of evaluating "Rothman's claim to

operational assets inside cuba and elsewhere in the Caribbean

mc.Connell

area. An agreement was macle that Ratmas wouldbe

nottied of Rothmans "operational potential in cuban affairs" un

Thly 5, (There is no

further communication with mcconnell).

BEttin the file of tears any

---

## Page 6

SECRET

2000 SET

At the beginning of the meeting mcconnell spoke to/simmons

privately, mcconnell described himself as a "leading political

figure in the Democrate Party machine in N. Carolina, and

stated ne was acquainted with Robert kennedy, General Taylor, and

General van Fleet, Mclunnell is a corporate tax attorney anc

was concerned about the embarassment to the kennedy

administration caused by the cuban "tasco." He stared that

Rothman claims to have assets and capabilities which would

enable Rothman to destroy the arms dumps on the

plantation uf ex-president cardenas of mexico, tu set up

operational bares in the Yucatan at a cost of #50-861, 000, to

sabatage targets in cuba identitied by the Us. gou't

and to provide positive intelligence on the acturtes of

Chinese Communist Groups in the western Hemisphere.

wonen Rothman was apresiddy questoned bylsimmonife

made the following points:

1- castro had executed three of his close trienas:

(Francisco- war name)

Rogelio Gonzalez, Sori maria, and Efigeno Fernandez.

a- Rothman has the operational capability to destroy arms

dumps of cardenas. He has agent assets in mexico with whom he

he made contact 4 to 5 monthsago.

8- He had Indians construct an arstrip in the Yuratan.

One 8-26 had landed there.

4- He is well acquainted with sancher Ardango and

considers him a close personel friend. He last met Arango l

weeks agu.

5- He has the personnel and capabilities to attacle or

sabatage any target of outfit g in cube. He has a as

---

## Page 7

1111000.

SECRET

basic plan for assassinatión of castro. The plan called tor an

air attack with napalm against castro when he was addressing

a rally. He has 100 pilots who had participated in the

nuasion of Cuba and are now working for the congolese Air Force.

Rothman would not identity the pilots.

6. Ruthman said he hach many agents going in and out of Cuba.

He is in contact with 6 agents at this time. The agents

are in the tourist-travel business or import-export business.

and enter the his. through 3rd countries.

I-lte knows of many chinese communists guing into

Canada from Cuba.

8 - Rothman expressed resentment over gun-running

charges He said "that cIA used the same people in there

gun running actuities and the same houses, for which he

(mr. Rothman) was being prosecuted by the Federal Government.

He sald that he had supervised 40 ship operations on behalf

of the frente against cuba. He sad that cIA would truck

the stuff to the point of ship pick-up, where he (Mr. Ruthman)

would supervise the loading of the shops. He said that he

had purchased the dott ship "reefer" which was the torst

boat to support the underground in Cuba. He added that

he knew everything the cIA planned in maritime operation,

and for the muasion."

9- Rothman stated he is a close friend of John Abbes

Garcia, Chef of Dominican Republic Security.

At the conclusion of the memorandum, (simmons comments

that

he did not believedEflikhan's claim of controlling

---

## Page 8

SECRET

agents and material assets, He recummencs that there be no

further discussion with luthman re these a claims.

I. simmons. notes from this

meeting que mcconnell's

address as Charlotte, n. Carolina, this memo inchedes

additunal moments made by Rothman-

a- claims to know prio, Betancourt

b- "suspects patrice op as being funny and ill-adused."

c- In the last year Rothman has met Arango 20-25 times.

Rothman knows friends; "Garcia" and "Jito"

d. Austin Young is Rothman's persunal pilot.

e- He last visited the Dominican Rep. in 1959 frtre

purpose of communicating with assets and contacts." John Abbes

asked Ruthman do Jub"

The tole also contains some information on Eduardo

Whitenuuse, Orlando Piedra, and miranda Fernandez.

•I. ten Eduardo Julia Whitehowe Insua (DUB 3-14-14)

aka" Teddy"

Whitehoure is described as a compatriot ut Rothman's

An April 5,1960 report states that whitehouse and Elliot

Sproning intended to take a B-ab to vera Cruz. Sam Rubin

(believed to be identical with Sam "Stretch" Rubin, chief

doorman at the Biltmore Terrace Hotel) was reported to be

the owner of the B-a6 (Reg# N32446). A Dec. 31,1959

report indicates that us. Customs sened a B-ab at Miami and

another (Na881G) at vero Beach, when Whitehouse and

Spinning attemoted to muve them. A la Der 1960 report

states that Whitehouse was responsible for setting fire

to the sugar crops in earlEGRET states he wow asked by

---

## Page 9

11110006

SECRET

Alberto Fernandez for help. Fernandez has set up a

guerilla organization. A 13 Feb 1961 repurt states that

according to Alexander I Rorke, Jr., Whitehuure has

70 pilots quailbable and ready to take drastic action against

Castro and have wurked out a "definite plan of actun"

to accomplish "Castro's overthrow."

II. Orlando Piedra

Predra was formerly in charge af the Dept. at Investigations

under Batista. A 8 Jan 1960 report states that

according to enrique Fernandez Paraion, both he and

Predra are heading the "military section" of the cuunter.

revolutionary group which is recelving monetary support

frum Batista. A 4 march 1960 report indicated Piedra

met ur planned to meet with General Jose Pedraza during

the later's visit to washington. Precra is described as a

member at BRAC who fled Cuba on Jan 1, 1959.

Reference is made to a new orleans FBI repurt, dated

march 27,1961. on Oct a, 1959 there is a report that

Piedra recelueu orders by Batista thru Joe Suarez Nunez to

immediately consolidate anti-castro forces.

III... miranda Fernandez- There is one report, 3-8-61, wnich

states Miranda acm, ted se these late to furnishingaid

to Rolando masferrer in 1959-1960. He stated he is now

prouding and and assistance to his former military

regiment who arestill in cuba working against castro.

He thinks the group SECts ated with Fro.

END

---

## Page 10

SECRET

TOOTHET

A Sept a7, 1960 cable to the Directur frum. mAsH (08a8)

stated: strentacte "I. FBI has adused of approach made to Frank

Fiorin: for procurement of two mIG aircraft which would be

brought to states by one (rech and one Cuban pilot. Approach

made by norman Rothman who is

hood indicted for

gun running and stolen bonds currently out on $50,000 bund.

"a. FBI contact felt Rothman interest was straight profit motiveer

hope for favorable treatment re above rap. Contact stated no

chance whatever latter and that had adursed Florin, that FBI

could not handle such a deal but would pass. to. other interestec

..u.S. gou't agency. Said that inspite of abole der og into belleued Pathman

could very probably proauce.

"3. Has Has. any interest pursue."

..Headquarters responded un Sept 28, 1960 (Dir 02972)

stating,

"It Ret para l plan involves detectiun of mIl

and et crech pilot from Cuba Has, vitally interested:

Adurse all pertinent detarls."

JMASH respunded on OCt 1,1960 (MASH: 0891):

"..

view Rothman forthcoming trial. local FBI feels

Justice Department

be aduised prior any cIA contact subj.

This to prevent any complication prosecution if op succeechs

and Rothman attempts, make deal re possible.. prisun term.

2. Per telecon 29 sept: mAsH advised: HQs Santago..

Rey also approached by Rothman with same plan ret A

[MIGPLANE]. If HAS decides go ahead withops, mAsH plaN

make contact through Rey."

This cable was followed by another: cable to the Directer.

from mast, dated out au, 19b@ felt 1162) stating

---

## Page 11

July 9,1965

11110013

Memo

ARA/CCA -MR. STRUeNSON

ARA-Gease Lisi.en

Visit if Cuban Exile Vector ESpiNOsA

venezuelan.

At guaran Chuben, almo curd,

ListeR agreed to meet Espenoser.

Espinosa statements a summy

O. Opposed BATISTA, opposes Cuatio

Not a member 1,

" Much 13" Movement,

but close t many I it leaders, incheding Cubelas.

@ Trained My C/A in Sowsam and Guatea

sent to Cuba pron to Buy y figs

Plans to became US cite in

Any 65-

sitatter

Blanchis-

богора

that he come grickly, Espines went

Miamü, obtained Pale Culon

papers

and event to

the'

Citon Aid. to France.

Caris. he the presence

For eat pee,

cone to Paris

varies

P2 Awing my meetings in

Prance, o Spai

(where Espies entered allis ally) Espinaco cro

infosened that there is a slow to

outers ike Carto regime and tell Cities

---

## Page 12

1111001-1

The plat in led ly Cichela and some o

the

March is movement. plus (uriter

believes some militay officers.)

"Hey must move more juckly because

more and nose pple leaching I the plat

and thus growing wok o expise.

They are and ons to have one cooldination

on at least consultation with responsible

they could win

an allaut fight against Castro

frces, thinki

we a ters of taking contel

for a fer bows billey. Cash f his mist

Hective wan They must whint f ory then

th amencons.

might to to help when the

coup is attempted. The lo us shed to

Olest the Us bon' as to what wer

being stamed.

The Cubans night have tened to

I Eul Williamson, CiA Machid, Skat

believe him to le

ameliable as Cuban

Castio + fooled I Wilhanion Ise amangad

fon her to

wank weth interstand fesue

corntlice. She retired toaded del plam a stet.

Platters asked Espera to la

go deliven with reliable Grencen aficals:

"Top secunty" man relumed to trina while

apres I plotters wanted in. Spar fir..

Espenosa retured to N.4, Called

O Buen A PIt. und Asked to Me pute

ouch with sens and rehable mean fron

CLA-

Espinosa told stony to "HAl" ICIH-

25 pinora believes HAl 02 Sonecue else ient te

span

to check. stony,

---

## Page 13

PRIORITY

8/13/78

Leslie wizelman

DCD summary

varona

The DiD provided the following documents and information.

@ memo d visit to R.Ruben de Lean Garcia, dated 1-26-61

De Leon arrived in miami and was contacted! 25-61. De leon, because

of the respect he commands from the different facton leaders in

Cuba, was assigned the mission of bringing the rival factions

together in order to expedite the solution of the cuban problem.

He stated the groups in cuba. have completed plans to effect the

overthrow of the castro regime.

@ memo from miami field office - reporting being contacted

by carter Ogden, formerly a large landowner in cuba,

who is now residingin mississippi. Ogden was in miami

on a special mission for the sec.of the Army: Ogden implied

that it had something to do with consideration of Dr. Ruben

de lean Garcia as an important adoler to the us Armyin

connection with the situation in cuba.

& memo dated 28 Dec 1962 re background of de Lean.

@ memo of Chicagoan's conversations with varona, source:

Dr. martin F. Pella- On a3 sept 1963 Varuna was Uisiting Chicago

and told pella that the fres, of Honduras had offered him

the use of an island off Honduras as a base fur anti-castro

acturtes. Ear

He varona told pella at difficuttes encountered by

Luis somoza in planning raids on cuba. Plans were made only

to be dropped because arms expected from the us gou't were

not delivered.

11110014-111029

---

## Page 14

varona

@ Interulew with former Bay of Pigs prisoner. -

Edgardo Antonio Buttari, Dec 23-24, 1962.

Enlisted in CRE in July 1960. Went to Guatemala.

24 Aug 1960- oscar Carol was assigned bead of the

cuban instructors, and personnel at TRAX base.

Col. Vallejo was Am-officer in charge. Late in 1000 1960

replaced by.

"Frank who arrived with

"Burne", 'Gordon'".

‚Pat"

and

C. B.

Describes Bay of Pigs

invasion and aftermath.

11110012

---

## Page 15

SECRET

--

Edwara k.moss

OS

restle wirema

3/13/28

Os file

1111001;

The moss file contains the following information and

documents:

Deputy

O memo tor the Chiéf of security Research Staff, 14 may 1973 in

which a memo dated a8 feb 1968

is referred.to. The referenced

memo

states that a verbal report from Dun & Bradstreet recognizes

moss' long standing. "Mafia" connections. "Moss" operation

seems to be government contracts for the underworld and

probably surtaces matia money in legitimate business actrurties

This memo also states that from 1950-53; moss was serving an

appointed position with the us Gourt, first as an Assistant

Administratur in Charge at Publi Intormation, National Production

Authority; and then with the Defense production Administration

both with the Dept. of Commerce."

a- who's who in America- entry tur moss.

3- Dun 8 Bradstreet report dated Sept 27, 1968. On June 1, 1960

moss merged his actrurtes with Howard Chase Associates, Inc.

moss was also pres, of a wholly owned subsidiary, chase &

moss, Inc, wash. D.C. June 1,1961 parties agreed to demerge with

assets returned to respective owners. Settlement. negotiations led

to litigation. In 1964-setlement was ettected. In 1965 moss

served as Asst Director, 080, with responsibilities deserves

for public aftairs adour to the white House Conterence on crunl

Rights.

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

- 2-

11110016

moss

@ A June 29,1967 Dun & Bradstroet report states that mass

is a prinepal in General Internatonal, which is stated tu be

an Italian. corporation engaged as consultants in economic anc

business area development

1 Europe, Atrica, d in Asia....

@ A memo to the tole, dated April 1967 re moss. The last approval

granted by the offreat security for moss' use was'" a couert

Security Approval dated. I November. 196a" to enable moss

use " by the political Group. of the CAstaff."

6- memo, date 23 march 1905. states that ne obtained.

a couert security, approval in 1959 ana CA in 1962.. for

moss

in the public relations field.

33833

7-30 No 1962- memo-from Political Action Group / Couert.

Actun.staff.requests. any objections to the use at the muss

as

a public relations adursor....

MAJOR

project.

8-19 mar- 1959 memo frum. DD of security reters to request

for CsA to permit moss use cis an informant on the plans,

actiontes and programs of the Indian Embassy in which he

is engaged or of which he is knowledgeabid,

Ellicen

---

## Page 17

SECRET

oury

hestié wirelman

3/13/78

mind

Joseph Ray

merola

DOB

90ct 1925

11110017

POB: Turtle Creek; penna.

The file on Joseph merola contains the following information

and documents:

O memo dated as Jan 1974 re office of secupity foles. States that

merola torst came to the Agency's con atiention in 1961 when he

visited Justin F. Gleichauf who was then chief of the miami

contact division. merola sala he had into concerning a

Brazilian senator, a close friend and cunfidant of che Guevarra.

It was telt that merola's reason for contacting the Agency was to

ascertain if the Agency would intervene with the Fed. court

to rescina

the as mile travel restriction. He was informed

that the Agency could be uf no assistance. Mr. merola allo

sald he had been engaged in gunrunning in behalf of castro

during the revolt against Batista and had been received warmly

by Castro & Camilo Cienfuegos, merola again contacted

the Agency on ao nou land intorming that he was going to jail

tur

one year, No turther cuntact with merola.

A Feb 15, 1964 cable from miami reports that 3 people have

been arrested for theft us dynamited illegal possession of

explosives. Carming that they stole the dynamite on behalt of

merola, a cIA agent. "merola is not a cIA agent but used

soley as an informant by ImpALm." ]

COMET

---

## Page 18

-2-

SEGET

11110013

merora

3- memo of visit to merola

, dated 8 Feb 1961, reports

Brazilian senator story, merola said that sam kay, one uf his

associates in the Latin American contraband business, told him

that the senator was interested in developing a project whereby

large quantities. of whiskey would be smuggled into Brazil.

(Contacts in cuba with castro.) the was also in contact with

colonel "Johnnie" Abbes, head of the bum nican secret pole

"merola also maicated that heis very well acquarnted with

Antonio de varuna, head of the FRD, and fet that he would be

able to provide detinite assistance to the frente should he

be called upon. He has a 63' boat aucilable which he would

not be adverse

to "landing" to his friends."'

11807

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Os summary

Leslie wizelman

3/13/78

11110010

Eduardo Writerous Tasua

The tile contains the following information a documents.

@ miami Herald article, dated al oct 1969, reported the

arrest of 3 men, Eduardo Whitehouse, Jose Roberto Silvera,

ana Hector Silvera for receruing & concealing stolen property after.

Theu tried to sella 100,000 worth of stolen ancraft radio equipment

@ Background info- D0B - 14 march 1979 PUB: Cuba.

Arrived in Us at Port Everglades, Fla, on 10 April 1959. Left U.S. an

8 April 1961, arrived Us again on a sept 1961 at New workcity.

. Issued Re-Entry Permit in march,

1aba for travel to congo. us.

Congressman Dante Fascell introduced a bill in congress in June 1963

= to restore us. Citizenship to whitehouse; that subject took part in

"Bay ot Pigs invasiun", that he contracted in 1961 to "fly for the

United Natoro in the congro"

Aar He was associated with Liberal

Party in Cuba 1937-59. Recerued Re-Entry Permit in Dec 1963 fur

travel to mexiio. INS File #A-11 241 940. Whitehouse was

represented by Attorney monroe Geld, on march 5, 1962

Re-entry permit, whitehouse

listed his employer as L.B. Smith

Aircraft Corpuration, miami, Fla.

In Feb 1964 - Whitehouse resided in miami

In June 1964=

in Dallas (6141 Oramst.)

. *

In Oct 1964

in miami

Employment in tune 1964 was with RANSA arlines, Miam.

SENDET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

11/10029

3- A brographical data turm lists employment as

July 1964-Present- North Shore Villas, Public Relations.

Jan 1963- June 1964- Panauen Airlines, panama -

Operatiuns Consultant

50o+ 1943-Jan 1954- Cubana Alrines- PiLot.

1961- 1963-

Insurance salesman

The above information is from an investigation conducted in the

fall of 1964.

SECRET

---

## Page 21

stuffe

summary

Lestiè wizelman

3/13/78

11110022

Edwara Browder

DOB: 22 June 1917

POB: Amarillo, Texas

The file contains the following documents and information:

A office memorandum -1954 "Sabatino, Edward Browder aka

Edward Browder; US Citizen kuing in mexico, Born about 1917

Address: Hoter monte Cassino, mexico City.

@ memo for chief, specal security bruision, subj: National Agent

name checks on Edward Browder Sabatnot Pesuccess.as may 1954

*In operational support of project PBSuCCestis requested that

your office instate priority national agency name checks, with

special emphasis on into developed from Immigration anc

Naturalization and Dept af state on one Edward Browder

sabatino, "

@- memo, dated 28 may 1954, for deputy Chief SsD trum Chief,

Operations Branch

subj: Browder.

"GIST: WHEeBsuccess) requests intermation regarding subject and

Louis sabatino.

DETAILS: 1 the subject to of interest to ent Druisien ((PBsurcers)}

and has requested this affice to conduct certain inquiries.

a Because of the sens stourty of this case, it is

requested that the files of the fot bechecked through

mr. Papich, concerning the subject and Louis sabatino."

4 Couert NameCheck Report -as may 1954

© Passpurt File Check a7 may 1954

SECRET

6 unidentitied document-

"The subject case, while still pending

was cancelled by request of the Chief operations, prosect) posuccess. "

---

## Page 22

SECRET

OS

Leslie wizelman

3/13/78

Dino cellini

The cellini, file contained one memorandum to the

Deputy Chief, security Research staff; subj: Edwarak. moss.

Datea 14 may 1463. Related moss/cellini, Varona connection.

.

11730022

*÷67795

ALUTE

---

## Page 23

SECRET

L. wizelman

os summary

3/13/78

Norman Rotsman

The tole contarned one ee pertinent memo, dated

25 April 1975 which contained general intormation.

It was reported that in late 1954, Rothman was managing

a hotel in miami Beach, Fla. which reportedly was owned

by ex-cuban president Banista, through Batista's

brother-in-law, Roberto Fernandez miranda.

1411002

---

## Page 24

SEGRET

heslie wizelman

3/13/78

John martino

The martino file contains a one page ducument dated 8Jan 196a:

case 36,973 - Drexel Gibson, most of the page is deleted.

Pertinent segment states:

6. when Gibson was transferred to la cabana he found only

one other. Us. Citizen there , a retred us. army officer named

John martino. martino, belleued to be from miami, Florida., went

to cuba in early 1960, fur business reasons and was picked up

at the airport in Havana on arrival. He was held

incommunicado for 14 months at el Principe and is now serving

a 14 year sentence at la laband on charges of being the head

of the "White Rose" anti-castro organization. martino is

desparately ill with kidney and lver allments and recerves

no medical care. His physical condition has kept him from

being transferred to the Isle of pines. " Hand writen

from martino's name-. "Drug Addict."

11410024

SECRET

---

## Page 25

SECRET

J. Ruby

1. Wizelman

6130/78

* wash Star article -1. may 1972

"'Ruby's safe stolen".

1. J. ware, partner in firm hired to auction off.

the furnishings of fRuby's night club in Athens, Texas

mace.anagreement@Ruby.estate.not to-open

backroum safe i Ware said the furnishungs were

auchoned. off Saturday but the safe was not among

them... Someone stolet... the nught befure...

oK. totake-fulleran

0,5

9027

207

11/10028

SECRE

---

## Page 26

SEChiL:

J. Ruby

L. Wizelman

6130/78

"wash, star article - 1 may 1922

"Ruby's safe stolen"

..b.J, ware, partner in firm hired to auchen off

the furnishings of tiruby's nightclub in Athen, Texa

made an agreement @ Ruby estate not to open

backroum sate, Do ware said the furnishings were

auchoned of Saturday but the safe was not among

them. Someone stoleit the night before.

Of to take

fulleran

11:1000;

0002459

SEORET,

---

## Page 27

6/25/78

L.. zebran

minutemen

O'''De Pugn and the Minutemen: WondeRland of the mind"

Ramparts, June 1970

by wilkamTurner.

Turner phonedal Pugh in 084. 1967 & pused possibility

that renegade minutemen hall boen involved in the kennedy

assassination.

- Defugh read lu agreed, sayina that he had

some evidence that might explain unanswerod

questions

about events at Dealey plaza in Dallas. It was only a few

munths after this exploratory contact on the tupie uf the

assassination that the chief minutemen had gone undergrouna."

(Garrison)

when depugh was shown

were

people who a mysteriously crech,

included on list? "three men why by Depught admission were members uf

the minutemon.

@ "Darly World (communit) dip ag April 1969 '''Minuteman arrested"

Richard Lauchli tr. arrotea- described as leader of the

minuleman.

Possession of over 1000 sub-machineguns d

olher weapens.

N002450

11110021

@ minuteman Application Form.

Lt. Gen. P. A. del Valle- Pres, of Defenders of the

American Constitutzun.

Executweßve.".

Linc don Apt. D-3

trum Aleranaria,

@. leter

From 989a to 551

Daton 11-29-63

pil

VA to

8. 0 Bux 68,. Nurburne, missouri -

"Ialso mailed a letter on 11-22-63, with information

fur my picket

sign for 112a-63

and 11-25-63.I

---

## Page 28

addressed it to P.O. Box 195, the return addred

on a letter I had recerved from you. To my durney,

it has not been answered. The politcal history of

those two days appears to prove that my letter of

10-22-63 was earried out in tull

and withan

unexpected roply, which brought out the true

nature of communism in full. This should solidly

establish our positiun for the future. Inzue said

pid or writen nuthing to anyone outade this lettor."

(Rubert B. DePugh's no. E was 551)

confidential Address of 9892-

vincent e. d'orien

Apt. D-a

Lincoln Bida,

Presciental Gardend,

Alex. VA aa301.

0002451

11110003

---

## Page 29

SECRET

Getun D decke Thegelman file

11170029

0002452

SEORET

---

