NL 00GE

SF MT 5 LF LF I 49 IF

Classification: etiS? Firs aioe

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

7/21/78

File Review - RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE
DDP Division
Two volumes

Reviewed on July 12, 1978 by Betsy Palmer

Volume I

1. #201/285 923 - Personality File Action Request - 26 July 1962
DOB: June 14, 1939

To: RID/201 Section, From: new/ct Piaiva E. xing))

Morales was a former Cuban Secret Service Official. Source
document: IN 13576 dated 15 September 1960

2. Cable to Director
From: Rio De Janeiro
Date: 9/16/60

Rio press says six Cubans, including RICARDO ANIBAL
MORALES y NAVARRETE, granted asylum Brazilian Embassy,
Havana.

3. Cable .to JMWAVE
“From: Bell aH
Dated 11 January 1961

Diaz Tamayo repgrted 24 December tofFawiey Jenat Morales has
recently joined AMIRON Janda is'a. Castro G-2 agent. Suggest
every.effort be“hade to determine whether’ this is a .

ty ° penetration attempt.

4, Name check request form from Navy Department, circa 12
September 1961.

5. Morales given polygraph and results forwarded to Chief,
Special Affairs Staff from Chief of Station, JMWAVE, ‘in
February 1964. Was being recruited by CIA for paramilitary
activities. Has had no contact with Cuban security or
intelligence since September 1960 and has given FBI complete
account of his activities since that time. His wife and
in-laws know he will be working for CIA.

6. PRQ Part 1 dated 5 January 1964

Classification: Leora¥—
tite Gee
| Classified by derivatién: ____

18 0-10193-1603 95°


(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE.
Page 2

7. Dispatch dated 6 February 1964 indicates Morales joined
Commandos L on July 25, 1963. Wave traces listed from
21 March 1961 - October 1963 (17 citings)

Request for Green List Name Check #148535

Dated 27 February 1964, for operational clearance. To be
used as radio operator and leader for PM infiltration
team. Case officer: Calvin Hicks. Branch Chief: Desmond
FitzGerald.

. PRQ - Part II

27 April 1964

Spotted and recommended for recruitment by/AMOT/132,J leader

of(AMHOUSEJorganization. Interviewed and recruited by

Ckenneth R. Sakovich)in January 1964 to be a member of
DESKJPM (paramilitary) team. To receive E200 per month.)

Case officers known to Morales:

Clarence E. Smeryage --

Kenneth R. Sakovich
Charles F. Masengill
Anton T., Pirnack

2

Dispatch to Deputy Chief/WH/SA
- From:-..Chief of. Station
Dated:. 1. September 1964

Cryptonym was [AMDESK/1
10.

Morales terminated by(Alexander D.
security violation -- made several
about a JMWAVE/PM Operation, going

for re-use.

11. Memo for Chief/CI/OA z
Attn: ur .(George Bell

Subject: Operational Approvals

wives of agents committed on Operations.

Glen
Pat
Frank
Larry.

Ratwick} because of a
attempts to find out
as far as contacting
Not recommended

Approval requested for Morales to include Special
Operations DivisionCin the Congo}under Project |

CWIPEsasus
Classification: Utes ye)
Cate, alone,
| Classified by derivatifn: ___

4E £F £9 £9 £9 £F £9 FF

eecnn

6
a,

p
f


og: * B. Palmer
Classification: get v9 oie

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE
Page 3

12. On 12/15/64, Morales signed agreement that he would not
divulge, publish or reveal by work, conduct or other
means, any intelligence information --~------~~~ .

13. Chile in the Congoy Morales to receive@$370 per month,
while in the U.S.,@270 per month.>

14. Memo for Chief, CI/OA
From: (Bruce B. Cheever 9 DC/WH/SA
Dated: 2 October 1964

Advises CI/OA to disregard previous cancellation on Morales

and AMDESK/2)(201-744 305) as they are being utilized by
Special Operations Division.

15. December 1964 fitness report on Morales pyftittiam Rovertson>

<Robertsondsays Morales was selected partly for his ability

to speak French, English and Spanish. He performed well
during preparatory and holding phase as well as during
phase when he was left behing to accompany Alberto Perez

““~ home’. Morales showed surprising leadership capability.
He is definitely recommended for special ops in a leader-
ship capacity.

16. 10 dune 1965 at a ; .
_/Memo for Chief; CI/OA_ : . a :
Attention :Cseorge “Ball >

Request that Morales' existing, Operational Approval be
amended to include use by SODGn the Conggpunder Project
WITHRUSHS POA reinstated until November 18, 1965, al-
though headquarters cable to JMWAVE said they preferred

he be discontinued as they wanted to make general practice
to avoid recruiting pilots who had any former intelligence
connection or whose history reflects derogatory information

even if not substantiated after polyograph exam.
17. Approval cancelled as of 5 January 1966

18. Cable to Director
13 February 1968

States that local FBI had identified Morales' fingerprints

Classification: aplucded

gaa | Clessfied a
45 £9 SF I I &F £F &


ae
6
6
é
6

pone . Pal
Gof een

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

Pa

19.

20.

21.

22.

ge 4
at one of Cuban Power bombing locations. FBI informed
JMWAVE before passing information to local police.
14 February 1968
Cable to Director from JMWAVE
Advises Miami police arrested Morales this date.
9 June 1972
Dispatch to Chief of Station; WH/Miami
From: Chief of Station,/Caracas
Morales, in March 1972, tells(crFENCE-4Sne is employed
by FBI at a salary of $700 per month ahd going to Columbia
on a drug case. Admitted responsibility for a killing in
Florida. Source says Morales has extremely poor reputation
in Cuban community and tells everyone about his affiliation
with the FBI.
2 October 1972

Coraal 4436
200-11-11/7

Document lists names. of 7 BNDD (Bureau of Narcotics and
Dangerous Drugs) sources. Morales is considered in a
category "exempt" "CI" by BNDD which is highly sensitive in
“their organization. His ‘name is: known only to highest
echelons. : ir euevecerecaiert :

8 November 1972
Cable to Chief/wH from Chief of Station/Miami

Indicates Morales of interest to FBI, BNDD and CIA
simultaneously. Morales said he was recently in contact
with the "Chief of the Latin American Desk" at the CIA and
his last name was the(same as Morales’ aD)

17 November 1972

Cable

Chief denies he was in Congo with Morales as Morales
ad claimed

Classification: oo

| Classified by derivation:

CIA denies contact with Morales. Latin American Dp

Galme

LF LI LE LE LL aa


,

t
Classification: —decrey B. Palmer

(This form is to be used for: material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Page 5

,°
f
p

6
¢
g
;

"26.7

20f0004 Classification: fewr

g RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

February 1976 ‘i

Cable from: DEA, Miami

To: DEA, Headquarters, Washington
Subject: Venezuela

Biographical information on Morales:

Morales was an exempt CI for Miami/RO originally established
by Octavio Gonzalez, presently SAIC Bogata/DO. Morales

was exempted due to fact he was active Confidential
Informant for Miami FBI working on Cuban terrorists. Has
moved to Caracas to take up official position within GOV
(government of Venezuela), working for a sensitive GOV
counter-intelligence agency. In charge of airport in
Caracas and plans to acquire Venezuelan citizenship. Working
primarily for GOV on Cubans residing in Caracas.

19 March 1976

Memo: to John Warner, DEA

From:¢ John P. Kennedy, CTA

Subject: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

‘Memo’ states -~ "Although Morales was of interest to this

Agency in 1964, he was not used operationally." (See
Items 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16 and 17 of these notes for

= indication of operational interest until January 1966.)

15 “October 1976

Cable tofcaracas 929165

References arrest of Luis Posada Carriles, Orlando Bosch
Avila, Oleg Gueton Rodriguez, Celsa Toledo and Francisco
unez, in regard to bombing of Cubana Airlines plane.
Indicates one of those arrested is WKSCARLET/3\ Further
indicates that much of the Caracas end of investigation of
bombing and reporting is controlled b Yaroup --
(note Orlando Garcia Vazques, a Venezuelan
official of a special investigating unit, for whom Morales
serves as Deputy) S

19 October 1976
Cable to: Priority Director, IN 074149

Item 5. Estation\ files contain no traces to Oleg Gueton
Rodriguez or CeIsa Toledo. Has one trace to Francisco Nunez.

Gare
| Classified by derMation:


rea B. Pal
Classification: zener PP MOY

from ClA—controlled documents.)

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE
Page 6

i
i
aa (This form is to be used for material extracted

and one child, born in the u.s.D

28. Cable dated ??

#933153
To: Imnediate/caracas >

1965 an

October 1967.

q
a
Ss

report, this file).

: 29. 20: December 1976- ~:~
oon. 3s Gable #960493 To: FBI

of Security Files give January 1966.)
Volume II

1. 24 January 1977
Dispatch #Zuvcw}10659
To: Chief of station Ccaracas
From: Chief, Latin American Division

Item 1. We share headquarters concern reila
WKSCARLET/3)and possibility of suspicion/additional charges
CIA connecfed with bombing. (Note: ZWKSCARLET/3 has wife

rrest of

Item 4. Gare Posada began employment with CIA in April
itially served as an instructor in maritime
training branch of JMWAVE. On 1 August 1966, he was
transferred to CI branch where he was to report on the
activities of Cuban Representation in Exile (RECE)
until his resignation in early June 1967. Terminated
effective 11 July 1967: Went to Caracas to seek employment
and subsequently picked up by Caracas station in circa

Item 5: Ricardo Morales Navarette was recruited in January

4 and terminated on 26 August 1964 and never used on a
sponsored mission. Received training toward (the Congo):
but: never served. (Note: this is not’ corroborated by
Office of’ Security information. See also item 15 - fitness

Admits: there is conflicting information in Morales' file
about the nature and term of his CIA employment. Still
says he was terminated in December 1964. (Note: Office

According to testimony of Antonio Gonzales at trial of

Rolando Otero in Jacksonville, Florida in August 1976,
Morales is a Castro agent. His declarations corroborated
by Ciro OntpaacitetiGrec Revuelta, former comrades of Otero

BREADS TET ee ae A box, (Rl res

| Classified by derivation:

> LY LF £9 PF &F £7 £2 £9 &F


MSP £89 LE 489 £89 489 £87 4527

Classification: ett eee Hace eed

(This form is to be used for .material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

i
6 RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE.

Page. 7

2. 4 February 1977
Cable # IN 177816 c :
To; Priority Director Info Priority/ta/Miani 7

caren Source, whose. reliability has not been established, says
7 Morales planning to get Bosch out of prison by force.
Another source (same status as above) says Morales has
recently rented an expensive apartment in Caracas, the
rent of which ts almost equal to his DISIP (Venezuelan
intelligence) salary,

1 3. 29 April 1977
Cable # IN 266922

; To: Directorgia/Miami >

$ Cuxprer/s eported Morales rumored to have killed

Roberto“Parsons in Miami. Roberto Parsons Ramirez
was a¢cIa "agent" \from 1965-1967.

4, 2 May 1977
Cable # IN 268419
., To: Director

Eugene Propper, AUSAG* investigating the Letelier murder,
has summoned Morales to appear as a witness. Morales
concerned that’ ‘once within the jurisdiction of U. S.
Courts, he could be charged with unspecified violations

and had ‘therefore. gone into hiding.

* Assistant United States Attorney General

4

Classification: went Golrae

| Classified by derivation:

49 £9 LF £9 £F £9 £2

20k


§
4
4
6
4
4
4
6
6
4
4
6,

47 = 489 i 2 489 {2 89 40

Classification: 3/24 ./— 7/21/78

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

File Review - RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

Office of Security
One volume

Reviewed on July 7, 1978 by Betsy Palmer

1.

Morales had been employed by CIA per Memo for Record,
dated 3 January 1969 by John K. Greaney, Assistant
General Counsel.

17 October 1968

Cable to Director

Ref: A. £JMCOBRAJ1253
B. Director 39974

FS> Cinercg)pians to use Morales as prosecution witness against

Bosch, et al.

F&L [inercgdaiso has following on list for possible pick-up.

AEOOS

Julio Aton Constanza Palau
Puli Tamayo

Hector Cornillot

Juan Garcia Cardenas

Omar Soto

Morales -- additional information may be found in U.S.
Army's Monthly Intelligence Summary dated 1 September 1968,
page 30. (HOS - First U.S. Army, Ft. George G. Meade,

Maryland).

27 August 1965

Memo to File from Laurence G. Parr

From: Alien Affairs Staff

Subject: Ricardo Anibal Morales (Navarrete) #380858

On 8/26/65, Morales had returned to U.S. having completed
his assigned duties for SOD, debriefed and is no longer of
interest to SOD. Hence, no I-512 to be issued for him to
replace one which expires 9/25/65.

10 December 1964
Memo to file from W. M. Knott

Morales (AAC-1142) ~- #380858(C) and Alberto Perez Martinez
(AAC-1143) - #223124(C) returning to United States on

PAA flight into Kennedy International on 11 Dec. 1964.
(ortice’ T & NS advised and requested to have his N.Y.
[orfice keep the I-94's from showing a New:York entry and

Classification: APS eG eee

| Classified by derivatioh:

;

Ga “Gh, VY VDF DP RE HA RFE TF USCS

IIe I I I eI ee,


Betsy Palmer

Classification: fer

(This form is to be used for. material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

0/S File Review - Ricardo Morales Navarette
Page 2

instead use following: Paroled Section 212(d) (5
December 11, 1964 - Indefinitely.
(Note: regarding assignment in Congo which began circa

9/25/64. Morales stayed behind to escort Perez -- rest
of group arrived at Andrews AFB on 5 Dec. 1964 on Air Force
plane.

6. 27 February 1964
Memo to Chief CI/OA
From: Desmond Fitzgerald

Morales given lie detector test because he had,
according to the FBI, made derogatory remarks
about the CIA.

L008 Classification: 7s ae

tin Gibnne
| Classified by derivatiof: ___

LP LF LF FF I LF SF FF

v
