# 180-10110-10054

## Page 1

180-10110-10054

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT OHMA OR YEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 19921

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10110-10054

RECORD SERIES :

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 025-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DALLAS

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES:

46

SUBJECTS:

SOUETRE, JEAN, ALIASES

ROUX, MICHEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/08/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: FBI File No. 1-105-128529 (Souetre)Box 1.

v9.1

NW 50955

DocId: 32263459

Page

---

## Page 2

i.

Date:

4/14/77

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Precedence)

622E

MIE.

ASSLETED EXCEES

017.

: 0IH28

2P7I3P,

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

SAC, DALLAS (89-43) (P)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

17/22/63,

Dallas, Texas

MISCELLANEOUS-INFORMATION CONCERNING

5/21/93

9803-Rd

00: DALLAS

Re Dallas telcall to Bureau Supervisor JOHN I.

ALDHIZER, 4/13/77:

On 4/13/77, DAVID DUFFY, Reporter, "National

Enquirer", home address 1364 West Camino_Real, Boca Raton,

Florida, Telephone Number 305-391-0489, Business Telephone

305-586-1111, Dallas address Holiday Inn South, Room 219,7x

Telephone 256-4541, personally contacted the Dallas FBI

Office. DUFFY claims to be a British citizen and a foreign

correspondent for the

"National Enquirer".

DUFFY wanted to know what investigation, if any,

the Bureau conducted

Texas, on 11/22/63, the day President KENNEDY was assassinated.

MARACORDED COPY FILED IN 05/24529-

was deported to Mexico or Canada shortE-?Bafter the assassination

of President

KENNEDY:

3-Bureau

REC-126

109066-7771

2-Dallas

UHS: ako

1-105-128529 - (SQUETRE)

(5.)

N-28

26

3 APR J'S 1977

Lio sent

XIAL

Approved:

84 MAY 2 1977

Special Agent in|Charge

HW 50955 DocId: 32263459 Page 2

_M

Per

SiM

GPO: 1975 O - 590-992

---

## Page 3

2091

DI 89-43

DUFFY had in his possession a very poor quality

Xerox-type copy of what he claims to be a Government document

that was obtained via a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

request from some Government agency. DUFFY claims he does

not know from what Government agency this document originated.

This copy was furnished to him by the "National Enquirer" to

check out in an effort. to determine the background on SOUETRE,

aka and why such a dangerous man was in Dallas, Texas, on

11/22/63. DUFFY is pursuing the possibility that SOUETRE

was

an assassin in Dallas, Texas, on 11/22/63, and might have

been responsible for the assassination of President KENNEDY.

The copy of the one page document that DUFFY had

In his possession was of insufficient quallty to legibly

Xerox;

but upon close

visual examination, it was determined

that the document contained the following information:

"1 Apr 64

"Jean SOUETRE'S expulsion from US

SOUTRE aka Michel ROUX aka MICHEL

ERTZ-. On 5 March (the FBI)

that

his the Legal Attache in Paris and

F_ had

• also the

had queried

the Bureau in New York City

concerning subject stating that he had been

expelled from the US at Fort Worth or Dallas

hrs after the assassination.*. He was in

Fort Worth on the morning of 22 November and

1n: Dallas in the afternoon. The French believe

that he was expelled to either Mexico or Canada.

In January he received call from a dentist named

ALDERSON or Alderman living at 5803 Birmingham,

Houston, Texas. Subject 1s believed to be

identical' with a Captain who is a deserter from

the French Army and an activist in the OAS.

The French are concerned because. of DeGaulle's

planned visit to Mexico. They would like to

know the reason

for his expulsion from the US

and his destination. Bureau files are negative

and they are checking in Texas and with IRs.

-They would like a check of

files with

indications of what may be passed to the French.

2

UINHOENTIAL

HW 50955 DocId: 32263459 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI 89-43

(The FBI) was given a copy of CSCI-3/776,742

previously furnished the Bureau and C_-3/655,207

together with a photograph of Captain SOUETRE.

*of President Kennedy

"Document Number 632-796

"for FOIA Review on Jun 1976

"CS COPY

•DUFFY further advised that he is also working

on a news story

and is attempting to develop facts on

the

following:

1. That LEE HARVEY OSWALD was an FBI or CIA

informant.

2. That LEE HARVEY OSWALD and JACK RUBY personally

knew each other.

DUFFY made an oral request to determine if he

could obtain any information on SOUElRE, aka from the FBI

pursuant to the FOIA.

The provisions of the FOIA were

explained to DUFFY, but he seemed to be only interested in

obtaining any information he could on an immediate basis.

DUFFY made no written request for information under FOIA

and no information was furnished to him from Bureau files.

For the information of the Bureau, reference

is made to case captioned, "JEAN SOUETRE, aka MICHEL ROUX,

MICHEL MERTZ, INTERNAL SECURITY-FRANCE, "

Bufile 105-120529,

Dallas file 105-1782. Dallas and other offices conducting

background investigation on MICHEL ROUX. Dallas teletype

Ito Bureau, 3/11/64, set forth background on ROUX and the

details of ROUX'S visit with the LEON GACHMAN family,

Fort Worth, Texas, 11/22-23/63.

By Bureau airtel dated

3/13/64, the Bureau advised that Legat, Paris advised 3/13/64,

that MICHEL ROUX has been located by French in faris and it

has been determined he is not identical with JEAN SOUETRE. C

Dallas President KENNEDY assassination indices

are negative concerning JEAN SOUETRE, MICHEL ROUX, MICHEL

HERTZ or MICHEL MERTZ.

The above is being furnished for the information

of the Bureau in the event the Bureau should receive any other

inquiries from DUFFY or become aware of any newspaper articles

on JEAN SOUETRE, aka.

3%

NN 50955 DooId: 32263159 Page 4

---

## Page 5

4/14/77

AIRTEL

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINA

HING. IN IS LUGGASSIPIRD ESCREA

THERE SEONG OTHERWISE

5

3.7-2

TO:

DIRECTOR,

• PB1 (62 109060)"

FROM:-

SAC, DALTAS (89-43) (P)r: 2hg

0/3273, 2503- she de

Declassify On. GAUNS

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

12/22563 texase assarsines

Dallas;

MISCELLANEOUS-INFORMATION CONCERNING

3URTE-281

nir

40227

229996408071

Bison

med bans

Re Dallas teicait to Bureau supervisor JOHN T

ALDHIZER, 4/13/77•

"National

Enquirer"',

Florida,

Telephone Number -305-391-0489, Business Telephone

305-586-1111, Dallas

trice..

DUFFY Claims

a British

correspondent Eoy the National Enquirer

32, 3.11

DUFFy wanted to know what investigation, ir any,

the Bureau conducted on a JEAN SOUETE, also known as mICHeL

ROUX, MICHEL HERT? who was supposedly located 1n Dallas,

Texas, on 11/22/63, the day President KENNEDY was assassinated.

a Former Pen At that sented and to dese

militant member of AS (a French terrorist group) and who

was deported to Mexico or. Canada shortly after the assassination

of President KENNEDY•

DE34 105 128527

smputead.

Dallas

UHS: ako

(5)

N35 72:

NOT RECORDEL

: 152 APF 26 1977

12. 21 66

105-128529 (SouETRE)

236

5 DMAY 15 1977.

50955 DooId: 32263459 Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 6

DL 89-43

DUFFY had in his possession a very poor quality

Xeröx-type copy of what he claims to be a Government document

that was obtained via a Freedom of. Information Act (FOIA)

request from some Goverrment,

agency 2 DUFFY claims he does

not know from what Government agency this document originated

This copy was furnished to him by the "National Enguirer" to,

check out in an effort to determine the background on SOUETRE

aka and

why, such a dangerous man was

In Dallas, Texas, on

11/22/5317

DuFF 1s pursuing.the possibility that sousTre

was an assassin in Dallas, Texas,

, on: 11/22/63, and might have

been responsible for the assassination of President, KENNERS

The copy. of the onenpage document that Durry had

in his possession was of Insufficient, quality to legiblye

Xerox, but upon close visual examination, It was determined

that the document contained the following information;

"1 AprA 64

"Jean SOUETRE'S expulsion from US

SOUTRE aka Michel ROUX aka MICHEL;

HERTZ- On 5 March (the FBI)

that

F.r.

rhad:

his the Legal Attache. In Paris and also the

had queried the Bureau In: New York City

concerning subject stating that he had been

expelled from the US at Fort Worth"or Dallas"

hrs after the assassination. He was in

Fort Worthon the morning of 22, November and u

In Dallas in the afternoon The French Delleve

that he was expelled to either Mexico or canada:

In January he received cali froma dentist named

ALDERSON or Alderman living at. 5803 Birmingham,

Houston, Texas a

Subject is believed to be

identical with a Captain who is a deserter from

the French: Army. and an activist in the OAS.Pn

The French are concerned because of DeGaulle's

planned visit to Mexico." They would like to

know the reason for his expulsion from the us

and his destination. Bureau files are negative

and they are checking in Texas and with IRS.

They would like a check of

a Efiles with

indications of what.

may be passed to the French

ANDOURNE

2

N7 50955

DocId:32263459 Page 6.

---

## Page 7

DL. 89-43

(The FBI) was given a copy of CSCI-3/776,742.

previously furnished the Bureau and CL-3/655,207

together with a photograph of Captain SOUETRE

-..

*of President Kennedy.

"Document Number' 632-796

"for: FOIA Review, on Jun 1976

ACS

COPY

DUrrY further advised that he is also working

on a news story and 1s attempting, to develop facts on

the collowing:

1. That LEE HARVEY OSWALD WaS an FBI, OCTA

Informant

205

That LEE. HARVEY OSWALD, and JACK RUBX personally

knew reach other

DUFFY made an oral request to determine if he

could obtain any Information on SOVEIRE, aka from the FBI

pursuant to the FOIA The provisions of the rotA were.

explained to DUFFY, but he seemed to be only interested in

obtalning any intormation he could on an Immediate basts

DUFFy made no

written request for information under FOiA

andeno information was furnished to him from Bureau, flles

For the Information of the Bureau, reference

13 made to case captioned, "JEAN' SOVETRE, aka MICHEL ROUX,

MICHEL PERTZ, INTERNAL SECURITY-FRANCE, Bufile 105-120529, 23

Dallas file 105-1782.

Dallas and other..offices conducting

background investigation on MIChEL RoUX. Dallas teletype

to Bureau, 3/11/64, set forth background on ROUX and the

details of ROUX'S visit with the LEON GACHMAN family,

Port Worth, Texas 11/22-23/63.By Bureau airtel dated

3/13/64, the Bureau advised that Legat, Parts advised 3/13/64

that MICHEL ROUX has been located by French in Paris and It

has been determined he is not identical with JEAN SOUETRE!

Dallas President KENNEDY assassination indices

are negative concerning JEAN SOUETRE, MICHEL ROUX, MICHEL

HERTZ Or. MICHEL MERIL

The above is being furnished for the information

of the Bureau In the event the Bureausshould receive any other

inquiries from DuFFY or become aware of any newspaper artieles

on JEAN SOUETRE, aka:

CONHDENTIM

3*

HH

50955 Docid: 32263459 . Page. 73

---

## Page 8

4/14/77

AIRTEL

WHORES TON CONA TRAN

WHERE SHOWN OTHERNEST

TO:

FROM *

SUBJECTS

DIRECTOR, MBI (62 109060)

SAC, DALLAS: (89-13/020

"ASSASSINATION OR PRESIDENTS

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

411722/63%

Dallas, Texasy

MISCELLANGOUS- INFORMATION CONCARNIENG

Dechssifyton.

DOR DALLAS:

Re Dallas Celcall to. Bureau. SupervIsor JOHN TH

ALDRIZER 1A34775

on 4/13/77 DAVID DUFFY. Reporter;

National

Enquirer

o home address so test camino Real, Boca Raton,

Florida, Telephone Number: 305-391-04895 Businesa, telephone

395-586-1111, Dallas address Holiday, Inn South, Room 219

Telephone 256-4541 personaily contacted the Dallas FBT

DurE claims to be a British citizen and a foreten

correspondent ror the "National Enquirert

The Bureau conducted on aN oUR alOWNOWn

conducteded a AN outs thou as notes

ROUX MICHEL HERTY

who was supposedl located in Dale

Terasr on 11/22/63, the day President, KENNEDY wasgassassinated

DUPFY Stated that SOUETRES

aka

waS

supposedly

a former French Army Captain who deserted and who was at

militant member of OAs (a Prench terrorist group) and who

was deported to Mexico or Canada shortly after the assassination

of Fresident: KENNEDY

3. Bureau

2-Dallas

UHStakO

1052/2.1307

(5).3

NOT RECORDED

191 APi 26 1377

7104

18 MAY @oc19772263459 Page &

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 9

DL 89-43

DUFFY had in his possession a very poor quality

Xerox-type copy of what he claims to be a Government document

that was obtained via a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

request from some Government agency. DUFFY claims he does

not know from what Government agency this document originated.

This copy was furnished to him by the "National Enquirer" to

check out in an effort to determine the background on SOUBTRE,

aka and why such a dangerous man was in Dallas, Texas, on

11/22/63. DUFFY is pursuing the possibility that SOUETRE

was an assassin in Dallas, Texas, on 11/22/63, and might have

been responsible for the assassination of President KENNEDY.

The copy of the one page document that DUFFY had

In his possession was of Insufficient quality to legibly

Xerox, but upon close visual examination, it was determined

that the document contained the following Information:

"I Apr 64

"Jean SOUETRE'S expulsion from US

"SOUTRE aka Michel ROUY aka MICHEL

ERTZ- On 5 March (the FBI)

F_ had

his the Legal Attache in Paris and also the

had queried the Bureau in New York City

concerning subject stating that he had been

expelled from the US at Fort Worth or Dallas

hrs alter the assassination.* He was in

Fort Worth on the morning.of 22 November and

In Dallas in the afternoon.. The French belleve

that he was expelled to either Mexico or Canada.

In January he received call from a dentist named

ALDERSON or Alderman living at 5803 Birmingham,

Houston, Texas. Subject 1s belleved to be

Identical with a Captain who is a deserter from

the French Army and an activist in the oAS.

The French are concerned because of DeGaulle's

planned visit to Mexico. They would like to

know the reason for his expulsion from the US

and his destination.

Bureau files are negative

and they are checking in Texas and with IRS.

They would like a check of

files with

Indications of what may be passed to the French.

2

UNHDENCIAD

HW 50955 DooId:32263459 Page 9

---

## Page 10

DL 89-43

(The FBI) was given a copy of CSCI-3/776,742

previously furnished the Bureau and C

-- 3/655,207

together with a photograph of Captain

"SOJETRE.

*of President Kennedy

"Document Number 632-796

"for FOIA Review on Jun

1976

"CS. COPY

DUFFY further advised that he is also working

on-a news story and is attempting to develop facts on

• the following:

1: That LEE HARVEY OSWALD was an FBI or CIA

Informant.

2. That LEE HARVEY OSWALD and JACK RUBY personally

knew •each other.

DUFFY made an oral request to determine 1f he

could obtain any information on SOUETRE, aka from the FBI

The provisions of the FOIA were

explained to DUFFY, but he seemed to be only Interested in

obtaining any Information he could on an immediate basis..

DUFFY made no written request for information under FOIA

and no information was furnished to him from Bureau files.

For the information of the Bureau, reference

is made to case captioned,

"JEAN SOUETRE, aka MICHEL ROUX,

MICHEL MERTZ, INTERNAL SECURITY-FRANCE," Buffle 105-128529,

Dallas file 105-1782. Dallas and other offices conducting

background Investigation on MICHEL. ROUX. Dallas teletype

to Bureau, 3/11/64,

set forth background on RoUX and the

details of ROUX'S visit with the LEON GACHMAN Tamily,

Fort Worth, Texas, 11/22-23/63.

By Bureau airtel dated

3/13/64, the Bureau advised that Legat, Paris advised 3/13/64,

that MICHEL ROUX bas been located by French in Paris and 1t

has been determined he is not identical with JEAN SOUETRE (E)

Dallas President KENMEDY assassination indices

are negative concerning JEAN SOJETRE, MICHEL ROUX, MICHEL

HERTZ Or MICHEL MERTZ.

The above is being furnished for the information

of the Bureau in the event the Bureau should receive any other

inquiries from DUFFY or become aware of any newspaper articles

On JEAN SOUETRE, aka.

3*

NW 50955 DocId: 32263459. Page 10

---

## Page 11

CONFIDENTIAL

3/12/64

.. CODE

CABLEGRAM

I INFOZMATION CONTAINED

CIN IC UNCLASSITIED EXCEFT

URGENT

3|18|96

1 • cotte

1 - Mossbur:

TO LEGAL. ATTACHE PARIS

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (105-128529)

(JEK)

th

•JRAN SOUSYRS, AKA MICHEL, BOUX, MICHEL MRTZ, IS - TRANCE.

REBUCAB MARCH SIX LAST

LBON GACHNAN, PRESIDENT OF GACEMAN METALS, FOET NORTH,

TEXAS, AND OWNER OT POST OFFICE BOX THREE ZERO EIGHT REFERRED

TO IN RECAB, ADVISED THAT WHILE VISITING PARIS OCTOBER LAST

HE MET A MICHA, ROUX, THE ROOM CLERK AT HOTEL PROUST, SIX BIGFI

RUB DIS MARTYRS, PARIS FRANCE, RODE ALSO SERVED AS GUIDE DURING

GACHMAN'S VISIT. POUX CLAIRED HE WAS MARRIED, HAD ONE CHILD,

SERVED THREE YEARS FRENCH ARMY, SERVED IN ALGERIA AND WAS A

LIEUTENANT. ROUK INTERESTED IN RESTAURANT BUSINESS IN U.S.

GACHHAN SUGGESTED HOUSTON AS PLACETO OBTAIN JOB AND INVITED

SOUR TO VISIT CACHMAN WESTER 0.85 9/05=138529-15

ROUX WAS IN HOUSTON, TEXAS, NOVE RATE TY LAST AND

VISITED GACHMAN IN FORT WORTH DURING NOVEMBER THENTY-ONE THROUGH

TWAYTY-THREE OR ZATY-SQUE LAST AND RUN TO HOUSTON. TABUCH

FRIENDS GACHHAN ARRANGED TO OBTAIN JOB FORROUX AT UNIDENTIFIED

Tolson .

Belmont .

MEXICO CITY HOTEL UNTIL HOUX COULD OETAIN PROPER VISA TO LIVE IN

Mohr .

Casper

Callahan

- U.S.

VIA CABLEGRAM

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

MAR 1 2 1904

Gale

Rosen 3

-(5)

2465

Sullivan .

Tavel.

Trotter

Tole. Room -

Holmes

Candy

1 - Topatra satan me (route through for sorter)

TELETYPE UNIT C

HH

50955 DooId: 32263459

10-

9-

7-

---

## Page 12

COXFIDENTIAL

CABLSGRAM TO LICAL ATTACHE,

PARIS

RE: JEAN SOUETRE, AKA

MICHEL BOUX

MICHEL HAIL

105128529

ilso

ROUX

mal

CACEMAN RECHIVED POST CARD FROM AUS FEBRUARY FILTEEN LAST

GIVING RETURN ADDRESS AS MICAZI ROUS, FOUR SIX RUE DE BAUBBUGE,

PARIS, NINE, TRU, SIX THRIS, FOUR ONS, ROVE DESCRIBED BY GACHHAN

AS WHITE HALE, TWENTY-FIVE TO THENTY-SEVEN, FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES,

ONE HUNDRED FORTH TO ONE HUNDRED FIFTY POUNDS, MEDIUM BUILD

BLACK HAIR, FAIR TO OLIVS COMPLEXION, INQUIRIES CONTINUING.

NOTE:

(oreign intelligence if e)

HU

Irench Intelligence authorities

Wro previousty

obtained Information showing a Hichel Roux entered U.S, 11/19/63

at Ney fort and departed 12/5/63 at Laredo, Texas, for Mexico.

se listed U.s, address as fost office Box 308, Fort Horth, Texas.

Pon inioration lurnished us by CIA, Jean Souetre does not

appear Identical with the Michel

Noreater and Decender, 196301(0)

Bour who was in the US. In

NR.

439

ENC. -

CK.

APERONED BIE

TIPED SY

CONFIDENTIAS

NW 50955 DocId: 32263459 Page 12

---

## Page 13

4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

DAIRGRAM

:i!.

DECODED COPY

XXXCABLEGRAM

O RADIO

O TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Moha

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Hosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trolter

Tele. Rdot

Holmes®

Gandy

LIE INCOSKATTON CONTAINED

WEREIN IS UCLASSIFIED EXCEPS

"GERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

DEFERRED

LIO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT PARIS

ip

3-13-64

NO: 880

DECLASSIPY ON: 25%

BUF ILE 105-120529•

JEAN SOUETRE, AKAS - FRANCE.

REBUCAB MARCH 12 LAST.

LINFO TO DATE FURNISHED TO DIRECTION DE LA SURVEILLANCE CC

DU TERRITOIRE (DST) •

THEY ADVISE: AS RESULT OF INFO FURNISHED

BY BUREAU:

DISCONTINUETINVESTIGATION•

Freign intelligence rgency co

NORMAN W:

10:03 AM

FN

RECEIVED:

CC-MR. SELLIVAN

Ma Cartes

SRD CC: MR. BRENNAN

105-128529

REC-: 44

E5 MAR 16:1964:

13

5 8 MAR 19

CONFIDENTIAA

Wir i a gbout nessage isto be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

---

## Page 14

3/13/64

Aistel

AIT: INFORUATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UECHASSIFTED EXCEPT

SURE STOCK CIRECTISE.

1 • Cortel

1 = Mossbuz!

To:

SAC, New York

2 - Dallas

2 - Houston

2 • San Antonio

From

Director; FBI (105-128529)

JRAN SOURISE; aka

Michel Rous

Michel Merta

INTERNAL SECURITY - FRANCE

CLEAREr 5665-5401458

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

CER

ReButel 3/6/64 which contained information received

from Wo that a Michel loux entered U.S. 11/19/63 and

departed 12/6/63 at haredo, Texas,

for Mexico. ReDltel 3/11/64

containing information re Michel Roux.

Legat, Paris, advised 3/13/64 Michel Roux referred

to above has been located by French in Paris and it has been

determined he la not identlcal with Jean Souetre.

Discontinue

investigation,

I - WEO

(12)

MAILED 5

MAR 1 3 1964

COMM-FBI

+ 45=192-2597

1. 1612

EX-103,

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Cosper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Itouei

The RobiAR

Holmes -

201964

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

HH7 50955

DocId: 32263459

CONFIDENTIA:

TELETYPE UNIT L

Page 14

---

## Page 15

CONFIDENTIO

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date 3/10/64

French authorities have

Smign Itelline info

(c)

BCR:hcf

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINED

FOREIN IS UNCGASSIFIED RXCEF?

WHERE SHONN OTHERWISE,

2/21/9v2

CLASSIFIED BYS468 SIS/KSA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Clat

JFK)

CONADENTIAL

NN 50955

DocId: 32263459

Page

15

---

## Page 16

OPTICALAL BORA NO. 10

3010-406

MAY IRAT EDITION

GSA GEM, HEG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOL INMENT

Memorandum

iTO

Mr. D. J. Brennan

DATE:

March 9, 1964

FROM

S. J. Papich

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

Ten Hi:

JEAN

SOUETRE

INFORNATION CONCERNING it.

intelligene Reference is made to cable from legat, Paris, dated March, 1964.

personnel

With regard to information in CIA files concerning the subject,

CIA, advised the Liaison Agent on March 6, 1964, that

her agency furnished information to the Bureau by letter dated July 12,

1963,

to the State Department

Cooperation of the United-States for its anti-de Gaulle Activities,

captioned "OAS Attempt to Entist the wa

copy of which was designated to the Bureau. In addition, Airs. Romar (g)

furnished the following:

(a) A photograph of Souetre

10-

(b) A copy of a CIA report dated June 25, 1963,

"Alleged Plans of Secret Army Organization in Portugal

for

captioned

post-de Gaulle

Takeover in France."

ACTION:

The above information and enclosures are being directed to

the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

Enclosures

1

- Mr. Mossburg

Liaison

1 - Nr. Papich

ATE IDTFORTUTICN CONTATED

PERSIS SEESS EYERS MCT 14

KHERE SHOAN ORUGGITS?.

REG6 0S-K1539)

5 MAR 17 1964

3/15,96

DECLASS:"

(JFK)

D&CLOSURE ATTACHED

SECRET

HH

50955

DReIG 32263459

Page 16

---

## Page 17

SO UE

Jean, Rono nele 15:410/49

BAYGUEMORTE LES GRA

a (Gironde)

HH.

50955

DooId: 32263459

Page

17

---

## Page 18

CiA document

DATED 6/25/63, CONSISTING OF 2

PAGE(S) IS BEING DELETED DUE TO THE

THIRD AGENCY CLEARANCE AGREEMENT.

ADDITIONALLY, THIS DOCUMENT IS CLASSIFIED

Secret

Bufile #

105-128529-9

NW 50955

DooId: 32263459

Page 18

---

## Page 19

3/6/64

CODE

1

• Cotter

1.

= liossburg

TELETYPE

URGENT

ALL INFORVATION CONTAINED

HEROIN IS UNCIASSTFIED EXCEPS,

FIDENE GHOWN OTHERWISE.

TO SAC NEW YORK

318/76

BOUSTON

SAN ANTONIO:

DECLASSIFY ON. 25X

FRO DIRECTOR FBI NO #3 TE MUST 78*

JEAN SOUSTUS, AKA MICHEL, ROUX, MICHEL MASTZ, IS - FRANCE.

INFORHATION CONCERTING :

....

[Zeign Intelligence Agency (C)

FRENCH AUTHORITIES HAVE

NFO HAS DETEZMINED

ONE MICHELTROUS, BORN AUGUST THISTY-ONE FORTY AT SOYAUS, CHARENTB,

FRANCE,

AND CARRYING 3 DASH T70 VISA, INTERED U.S. AT NIH YORE CITY

NOV BEA WINETEEN LAST AND DEPARTED DECZMBER SIX LAST AT LABEDO,

TILAS, FOR MEXICO.

AT TILS OF INTRY HE LISTED U.S. ADDRESS

QUOTE HOUSTON, BOX THREE ZERO EIGHT, FOET WORTH, TEXAS. END QUOTE

SAN ANTONIO AND HOUSTON BOTH CHECK INS RECORDS LOCALLY.

IF NO REASON

52.9

Tolson

EXISTS TO COMPRAZY, EVERYLE. DOXIE AND SUET BURRAT AND

Bern: - NET YORK ANY PERTINENT DATA DEVELOPED.

Casper

Callahan -

10 1S90

15 MAR 1'7 1964

DeLocca -

- ($)

Evans -

SES NOrS PAGE TIdA TELETYPE

Gale -

Rosen.

ON DENTIAN

MAR 5 1964

Ne 20955 Docid: 3226315e, Page 19

---

## Page 20

TELETYPE SAC NEW YORK

RE: SEAN SOUSTRE, ARA

MICHEL. ROUX

- HICHEL MENTA

All teletences

ID NEW YORK SHOULD FURNISH ANY PEEINNENT DATA REPORTED BY

HOUSTON AND SAN ANTONIO

sarch Perse:

cd:

¿ Restricte

5011141

informant

NOTECt N

Wanna Liv

Irench lialson representatlue-at New York and French

authorities in Paris are

Legat, Paris, being

Kept advised of results

of our Inquiries.

Date

brign Inteligence finati

--. a.

27-2

7713

- 2927

- 20-

062342

ma

his is

20 60

- 03051 21

50955 DocId: 32263459 Page 20

---

## Page 21

FBI

Date: March 5, 1964

PLAIN TEXI

(Type in plain text or code)

PRIORITY

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

-70

From:

Subject:

Director, FB1

Legat

Paris (64-776) (P)

JEAN SOUETRE, aka C

Michel Roux,

Michel Mertz

INFORMATION CONCERNING.-

FOREIGN MISCEETANEOUS

Re Paris cable 3/4/64.

Enclosed is a photograph of subject received from

the Direction de la surveillance du Territoire (DsT),

domestic counterespionage service, March 4, 196%•(S

ENCLOSURE

4 - Bureau

(ENCL: 1)

(1 - Liaison)

1 - Paris

NWP: 1J

(5)

I aire

411-64

NOLOSURE ATTAUSED

EHM/bId

3/14/96

CLASSIFIED BY 2668 SUD/KSA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

6

JFK

VLa.

REC-5

105-126-5329-6

BX 101

10 MAR 8 1964,

17 ce

c c i wica]

his ii

Adit

M': Per

Approved:

SECREL

Special Agent in Charge

Sent .

NW 50955 DocId: 32263459 Page 21

---

## Page 22

50955

DoOId: 32263459

Page 22

---

## Page 23

1'

Liaison

. — Wannall

1

- Mossburg

3/6/64

CODE

CABLEGRAM

URGENT

TO LEGAT PARIS

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

10-

JEAN SOUETRE, ARA MICHAL ROUX, MICHEL, WARTZ, INFORMATION

9.

CONCERNING NATIONALS INTUINCE):

1007-

REVECAB MARCH FOUR LAST.

INS RECORDS REFLECTI

TIT. INTORMAGION CONTATNETY

CI/ SSIPTED EXCEPT

3/18/96

CLASSIFIED BY 5668SIDKER

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

6

(JER)

Thild Agency

information

FT.

APPROPRIATE POLICE, CREDIT AND AGENCY CHECES IN DALLAS AND

WORTE AREAS HAVE PROVED NEGATIVE RA SUBJECT.

re

DR. LAWRENCE M. ALDERSON OF HOUSTON ADVISED HE KNEW SOUETRE C

IN SUMER CE ONE NINE FIVE THREE WHEN BOTH WERE STATIONED AT

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahen

Conrad

"RDC : AMS

DeLoach —

Evens _

- (G)

Gole

Posen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tole, Room -

FETIE MALIDUN NEAR RHEINS, FRANCE.

VIA CABLEGRA

HAS

THEY FTaST 5

MAX 0190411

1- foreign

1045/p

Tration unt/Cronte

thru for review)

Risi

---

## Page 24

COMEUENNINOA

CABLIGRAM TO PARIS

RE: JEAN SOUSTRE

LIEUTENANT, U.S. ARMY, AND SOUSTRE WAS ASSIGNED WITH TRENCH IOURTH

AIR FORCE: ALDERSON ADVISED HE HAS SINCE OCCASIONALLY CORRESPONDED

WITH SCUEIRS, USUALLY IN FORM OI CHRISTIAS CARDS, BUT HAS NOT

RECEIVED CORRESPONDENCE FROM HIM FOR MORE THAN YEAR.

THERE ARE NO DIRECT FLIGHTS BETHEEN HOUSTON AND CANADA. NO

RECORD LOCATED FOR SUBJECT AT PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS, HOUSTON, WITH

REGARD TO FLIGHTS TO MIXICO CITY DURING PERIOD NOVEBER TIENTY-THRES

TO THENTY-TIVE LAST.

BUREAU HAS NOT INITIATED ANY INQUIRIES IN CANADA OB MAXICO,

(IT BEING ASSUMS FRANCH AUTHORITIES FILL MAKE THEIR ON ARRANGINS

IN THIS REGARD J (C)

FOR YOUR CONTIDINTIAL INFORMATION, BUFILES REFLECT SOUETR3,

AS RIPRESENTATIVE OF O4S, C

DURING MAY, ONE NINE SIX THREE.

SUBJECT HAS SEKING U.S. SUPPORT

OR ANTI-DE GAULLE ACTIVITIES, LIHIS DATA NOT TO BE FURNISHED

FRENCH; HOWEVER, YOU SHOULD SUGGEST THAT IF NOT. ALREADY DONE,

TRENCH MAY DESTRE TO CONTACT CIA.J(C)

NOTE:

subject,

lormer French Army officer who deserted and who

Is now reported to be militant member of Secret Army Organization

(French

terrorist group 1s oi interest to french authorities.

This

stems from fact that

conducting inquiries re subject as police coopuration matter.

Braign Intelligence information (4)

To are

437

CONADENIA!

1216

NH 50955 DooId: 32263459 Page 24

i?'

---

## Page 25

5-113 (1-13-61)

CONFIDENTIAI

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date March 12, 1964

(c),

French intelligence authori-

ties

Адену

formation

Attached reports interview

ơf Leon Gachman, Fort Worth, Texas

concerning his association with

individual possibly identical with

subject.

BCR: cwb

ALI: INPORMADION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

32196

CLASSIFIED BYS 668-560151

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

CONFIDENTIAL

AW 50955

DocId:32263459 Page 25

---

## Page 26

DECODED COPY

Y

DAIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAM

D RADIO

• TELETYPE

Sulti

Froster

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

3-4-64

URGENT

TO/ DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT

• PARIS

NO. 872.11

Tall

15.

10810-

JEAN. SOUETRE, AKA MICHEL ROUX, MICHEL MERTZ,

INFO CONCERNING!

DIRECTION DE LA SURVEILLANCE DU TERRITOIRE (DST FRENCH

DOMESTIC COUNTERESPIONAGE SERVICE, ADVISES

Fougn:

Intelligere

Aquacy.

ormatio

ATE. INTORMATION CONTAINED

HERBIN IS UNCLASSIFLED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

318/96

CLASSIFIED BYS66 SLD/RSA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

ESFA

PLEASE SUCAB.

94 bit ad

RECEIVED:

CC-MR. SULLIVAN 152

BRO CO: ME. BREAT

3)5/s4 Papich CorticLanCIA

MR 9 19640

the

I the intelligence contained in the abovè message is to be disseminated outside

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

CONFIDENTIA!

50955 DooId: 32263459 Page 26

intacted

is suggested that it be suitably

---

## Page 27

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010 = 104

UNITED STATES GOV

YMENT

Memorandum

CONFIORI

THAL

тО : :

DIRECTOR, FBI

(ATT: FOREIGN LIAISON UNIT)

SAC, NEW YORK

DATE: 4/8/63

magion :

SUBJECT:

informant

ALDERSONS

5803 Burlingham, Houston, Texas

IS - FRANCE

informant

For the information of the Bureau and Houston, on

4/3/63,1

advised that a Captain SOUblRE,

who is a fugitive because of

TIS OAS activities in France

and Algeria, In December 1962, received a letter from cap-

tioned individuals wishing him well and success..

The letter

was signed "LARREY

Houston 1s requested to identity the ALDERSONS, and

when this information is forthcoming, the Bureau 1s requested

to advise what, If any, information may be furnished to this zo

source.

3-30-96

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

MCT

ESTED

2 Bureau (Ri)

2-Houston (RM)

I-New York

informant

6-102

105-120510-2

510312

1963

LESISON

wind

INT. SEC

LAB: EG

(5)

© SHAY

261952

HW 50955

DocId: 32263459

Page 27

SCHAD

---

## Page 28

1 - Hossourg

SAC, NEW fOrK

RECO

Director"

P31

informant

(105-12051071

5/21/63

LAWRENCE MASON ALDERSON

IS - LANCE

Be Houston letter 5/3/63.

should be advised that the aldersons

relerted to in New fork letter 4/8/63, may be identical with

Dr. and HrS. Lawrence il. Alderson who

reside at 5803 Burlinghal,,

Houston,

Texas. DI. Alderson is a dentist in Houston, Texas.

He reportedly served in the U.S. Army from 1952 - 1954. Our

files contain no information indicating that Di. Alderson and

his wite have been outside the U.S. or have been engaged in

any anti-france actavits informant

I - Houston

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

KHM : bI

nformant

(6)

NOTE:

on 4/3/63 advised that a Captain Souetre

Is a fugitive because of his activity in the Secret Army Organization

(OAS, composed of many French military persons who were violently

anti-De Gaulle in view of his attitude in desiring to grant

freedom from France for Algeria). According to

Souetre received a letter fron the "Aldersons, 5303 3urllnghan,

Texas," which "wished him well and success. C New York

requested houston to identity the Aldersonsand requested Bureau

to advise what information could be given to

(105-0-70372)

informant

MAULFO 39

MAY 2 1 1963

GOMM-FSI

Tolson

Belmont

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evens

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tovel

Trette:

Tale, Room.

Holmes.

999750955 DocIdA$226

Fare ENT

6620

3 335M123

CLASS Y 5668 SLO/KER

(5FR) 3-20-96

---

## Page 29

218

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-108-02

UNITED SIATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

ATTENTION: FOREIGN LIAISON UNLI

•SAC, HOUSTON

DATE: 5/3/63

i...

SUBJECT:

CHANGED:

LAWRENCE MASON ALDERSON,

Lammence M$ Alderson,

Alderson

IS - FRANCE

(00-Houston)

CLASSED SERIOUSSe

DECLASSITY CN: 2570

(JFK) 3-20-91

RE :

New York letter

Yo the Bureau dated 4/3/63

captioned. "ALDERSONS, 5803 Burlingham,

Houston,..

Texas, IS - FRANCE."

The title has been marked changed to reflect the

subject's full name

as obtained through investigation at

Houston.

The Houston Telephone Directory dated January, 1963,

reflects that Dr. I.

M. ALDERSON resides at 5803 Burlinghall,

Houston.

He maintains

a dental office at 10921 Chimney Rock,

Houston.

Houston street and map directories reflect no

street or avenue known as "Burlingham"

Records of the Credit Bureau of Greater Houston

contain the following information:

LAURENCE M. ALDERSON, as Of May, 1962, resided at

710 Asheroit, houston,

His wife was listed as BEVERLY ALDERSON 1.

with birth date as 10/5/33. She was employed by Humble Oil

Company, Houston, with a termination date shown as 7/31/57.

LAWRENCE M. ALDERSON in 1955 was employed by the Harris County

Tax Collector's

2: - Bureau (RM)

2 - New York

1 - Houston

ISW : yk

(5)

MOT 14

REC 14

LIAISON

GORGETT!

105-120530-

1

NY 50955 DocId:(2263459 Page 29

NAT. INT

---

## Page 30

CONFIDENTIAL

но 234-180](c)

Records of the lax Collector's Department, Harris

County Courthouse, Houston, contain the following informa-

tion on LAWRENCE MASON ALDERSON:

In 1955 ALDERSON was employed as a temporary

employee while attending the University of Houston.. In

1956 and 1957 he had summer employment upon his return from

the University of Texas at Austin, Texas.

On a June, 1957,

personnel form ALDERSON listed himself as married. His

1955 and 1956 forms listed him as single.

A check of marriage records, Harris County Court-

house, for 1956 through July, 1957, did not reflect a

marriage record for LAWRENCE MASON ALDERSON.

ALDERSON listed service in the U.S. Army from

September, 1952, to August, 1954. His father, JAMES B.

ALDERSON, is employed as a supervisor, City of Houston

Treasury Department, and he resides at 8157 Grafton, Houston, TSY/:

with his wife (subject's mother), EDITH Me ALDERSON.

11644.

4616:044

University of

Houston, reflect that LAWRENCE MASON ALDERSON was admitted

as

a student on 9/20/48. He obtained a Bs degree from the

University of Houston on 8/30/52.

His address at that time

was 8157 Grafton, Houston. His file indicates that in 1955

ALDERSON attended the University of Houston during the

Spring quarter, 1955.

Humble Oil Company records reflect that BEVERLY

BOHN ALDERSON, born 10/5/33, was employed by that company

with a termination date of 7/31/57.

Indices of the Houston Office contain no references

on the following names:

LAWRENCE MASON ALDERSON

BEVERLY BOHN ALDERSON

JAMES B. ALDERSON

EDITH M. ALDERSON

Houston Police Department records were negative

on the subject.

CONFIDENTIAL

=2 -

NW 50955 DocId: 32263459 Page 30

---

## Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

110 (234-180](6)

iy incormation that

New York is relested to keep Houston aware of

Anay furnish regarding

the subject.

informant

Verification of subject's military service and

also his educational records while at the University of

are being left. to the discretion of the New York

Office.

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 50955

DocId: 32263459 Page 31

---

