# 180-10144-10071

## Page 1

180-10144-10071

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Raked - 8

Do B. 35 oct 28 - 0hil

CIA ban

wuh mr

Aulles &

Kelle

Buady dotil

Was employed

as plasties exput

the hand Disclopment Corp. of chail

O his

dest enlisted elitionin apecu

in U.S. Mang

-Tramlid to USSP

the American Exhibiha

170ct 59 offreiall renouncel he

11111331

SECRET

180-10144

-100%

---

## Page 2

3114178-

VH I

No the opening reques

doc. 10/23/59.

Webeter, Robert E

dated 10/17.20/59-

SECRET

3111141

Bi sheets i nevepapu articles proude loving up.

- White made a sell of tips to Moreow during March-

dely 1959 In countER w/ Laid Cp. endedt at the Macow

Exhibitior.

- Rebette disappeared 'on strip" or 9/10/59 when the haid Corp.

firesanel

were scheduled to have More ow.

- X reptedly renouneed ut.: it OCt. 1-17,1959. The uprised ly

Jove thet if be mupted sw at, he would it be able it leave cousty

10/6/59 50 Vegram, Pine to ely State R Ret Sette.

from letter stating hes deil o umar 1 S l. to leve i work.

Ent. usable to determine Is whereabouts in leningred

locate Keher; recept of (abor) Ent tale

-AIIC Clevelaid liked whether h was carying out wedeters bak

Yo. CIA which dedit been coordinated withen. Xi acmud that

this was at lace i to beet of ow knowledge, X hed not dies seeped

hy i was waknows to eithe DDP A Ooffees:

- Check made w/. Mille; had entited WIth A. few steal reasons;

de will chault w/ Mers Kirketner gle to produce a mou complete

puture of W

SECRET

10/0/59 MER, ly Bruce 2. Sell, 05/585.; R Heater

Egerter advised Papich Called Roan 1e Agesey interest in N

- OS felee - no clearaice; was an 00/e int. la Nix late May 31, butt

N west vstected by O0/C puin to tripe to USSR

- CI/OA celes - по меня.

---

## Page 3

3/14|78

3111142

R. E. Kehter (cont.)

SECREM

intret Aw,

- 10/21/59 Office Yemo, C.5. Kitaburg, Cleveland to Chef, DeRs, atta

Support Br. (holey) ; RS: R.4. Kite case al neet Nachine Serenig

Conferace In 10/20/59 - Our org. as no intreet la marker.

-10/22/59 affice temo, Ritteng, Murland Kendust Agent t Wef, Katact

a) le ties file ding ryti. Me Wis defection?

b) If at, do they contemplate doing ay thing?

c) Khat week the office have dose of wist mermally?

Kitterday called nest day i respace that they sew taly what wits

in newspapes he W; (not try cosperative).

1111333

/ M.J. Raed i 24. hebeter

Aginey intuiest in

- 10/26/59 Nems, Sheffeld Eduardo to Dei,, FBI, BE:| Hebete

May - Ince 1959, however de wrest contacted pror to dep YOUSSR

- Ogisy does have a te tratteal Meletonship w/ Clueland

office of Rid beelop. lip. on devlop. of lack materal of it. to ageny

In wew of Wis cmpl. w/RDC, plee. yowad aay ufo stacied th

wrectig of W.

1923/59 Info. on Vera Archenko, W's gulfwend

SECRET

10/28/59 Report In N :

Wwas gira sel.cliararce 615/59 tut sure had access to military info.

---

## Page 4

3/15/98

V

SECRETI

SECRET

R. 4. Rebater (cont.)

(eort.)

on 10| 17/59

Report of internew of N dy nyde, in presence of N.T. Rand & Her.

Bookleader at the OBVIR in Most - Mesons for defection; aleo signed

renusuatia q 5. cit

3/22/60 epe. eno, Metleasurg to Vet.Muf, Coract a.; Wn: suppnt

Branch Curley) - It indiation (tre 3/22/60 Cleveland Pies atrele)

of W's deure to ret. to U.S.

11111334

3/25/40 DM Keltaking to Trace

- hand cotated y N3 fatter to ad i benguag Whose

- Land induated he would catact SA, So. Emb. Nack. to see what could

he done.

- R quited Snyder of US Ent MacoN a sayig the would de no diffety

fion U.s. side ve tough Wis son it, sou quots is nur filled &

suce his boler as lows he should be able to late Us ne ales, if reway

- I undeated may he value a itsenging W. tick for mtell was ons

several Offer Hemos It Ns uteut i retions is Metuk to US

12/20160 til Rure of Office of Security files, SO reflected (bender.

does. Me Nis defection te follouring:

ho tet afterion; interrewed y senty i Consular offuer;

acked for adve on not. tols.

- States that W's fattu should de adered to excute sa puttin, leo foreted

notorized letters of vertation for self i B.V. for N'S uc in sakey

sor end Messes west the suite late entice nis int

---

## Page 5

3/15/78

3111144

Vol. II ...

Vo. IIII

Vol. I contains third agencydoes n followers:

MFBI Reports ..

2 Rept. of AF Memor

4. 5A doc. - 112159; 3/22/60; 414/60; 6/8/60

11(11335

- PRQ-Part I Undated; sometime after seturn to 45

net ron to ut. to US @ 5/16/62

- Uadated Reno, ITar Bhau, Macent: Conduatin staff. Affece of Jug to

Repst of Court Ascerment of P.4. Kater - lessed In 1/23-24/62

- Repent bred i pryck testing

- attach: te Pett Report 21345 - "List of Shan, detestion Sens from A Victe

3rd.Agency:= 1 FBI Report of 118/62

Office Mense from Clevelaid I Raid ! Wis ret

Incespondence det. I. I arely

loustry: USSR

II A Lafo. Report

Suby: Lexingred Siest les ket of Poly. Ructies (NIIPP)

Date of dufo.: 1/12/59-4/18/62

Dese.&Dug.of sov. Plastics Ie

Report # 00- B.3232798.

CA/00 Case 38246.

-SECRETI

Tout report of rugn Tech RW., IF systens Commard, ¿ LIA

---

## Page 6

3/15|18

11111336

R. 4. Webster

SECRET

3111145

B/41162 Requet fo Appral a envetigative letion

From: AC/SR/ 6./ Supp

See. Supp. Du /OS.

RN. Balaban

Reque: Porsonal lovet Secrety Appetial

Spee hue of Me: Detreping t itali So. realete data

Clearance leg to debre sul. re expenne as a resdeet of Sl. purte

i deing defection to NSSR @110/59

6/22/62 Veno, DD Secty (saved Oper Oper.Supp.) to Chef, SRDiV.; Alta Balabre

- A 7LSA may the grasted for use as discited; self. is ant to replesent

Nimalf vor to he replected as an emp. of CIA. I charge i status is desued,

new request should he made

1/512 Auther. to Expend tude to Beeps of Coet hereat it to SRDi.

tude for use of safe house appros. 14 days Chargeable to Pisjeet

DOA

1Ibd Mens: Request for Hadurting Analyass

deta nerded on S perratities

T/16/b2 Peonal tatery Statement of tickier

Heckouting artis de per ug. of 1/16 SECRET.

---

## Page 7

3/15/78

11(11337

SECRETI

Lobert 2. Kelster

3111146

dy Howad T. Stack,

1124/62 deterrew Report cy Di Chas l: Boiser Ip..; RE

Background info of 1, asht stay in S M-2 t ta U.S.

I's lets men st contilled? Highly unkely

If not could de leone so? Porily, if things dent go will in future? he

is feed suitable fineseal reward.

RE: News in Sov, attetude

Watte addetonal notes

a stadow. or h'3 bora fede

Vol. II.

I buttice of Lefe Story of REW Complete chin

socioloqual, we. conditions, prels

II. MUSC 240. on SA. Realities 1959-62: TV, tars, mail, medical treatreat, vote

I. Beg. info. on SeV Zersalties kown t N. 159.62.

I hassment of REW.

SECREL

31d Agesy does.

250 - 3/2-523/21/12

316162-5124/62

---

## Page 8

3|15/18

11111338

Vol. IK

R. E. Webster

3111147

4/16/k3 Demo, Balaban to Chef BR/6; Pr: Besefung of R. beliter

I. Suby debriefed y undersigned logether 1100/Cortect Dir.

AF reps. i Pitaugh Лка 1/23/62.

Balatan = Kudy Valeatens

elsked Tranes

= keller: Stuart

Kondrat! yevskiy

00 affece, Pittsbugh

= Major E. I: Zutica

= 11. F. 6. Пуська

It tough deck. Dw., hught titloos

AFD, Shis

kennended that suly che drught to Do for detailed debrefing

hangements for 2nd drefug made by OS

July. stayed at Mannott totel, Key Budge, during 1/15-28/62

члини A: Jet of staff peresanel who passupated a debrefing

6: Iotatons made by Baleen during various phases of debrating

11

l: Surecy aguent, dated 16162, signed thy suly

Д :

"

I stret. of buttfulness, signed by suly.

I short beag. on Subj

Refe. to. Oswald

5/1/64 Memo, degleton to ALL, FBI se IHO

- Wacked copy of names, adduces i phones 's re SU. - te addies

in tenagud of her Prizentser is same a similes to ki's aldiers

tau.

---

## Page 9

3|16/78

3111148

R. 4. Webeter

SECRET

50/10/67 teno, B. Keller Stewart II Whif Atts Office / to Di. DCS; RL: RIN

- Nive led no entact will sace 1/63 when ue compted landling of den

under care 38,246 .

Vate 3 1d ageny matrale.

4 FBI Reports 10/22/64-2/13/64

INS chio sheet - 1969

11/11339

SECREI

---

## Page 10

seeping

RE.W.

SECRETI

3111149

Defection

Are wher in turing implynest?

Auy Astact /50 intel? After attempto t return to U.S.? After set til

Contacts at Sow. Ent. un Moreov

- SA

- CTA

PRp-Pt. I - wokey.; whea (st det.)?

11111.340

Did debrefig induate any deere by Agary to kee him

SECRETI

---

