# 180-10143-10145

## Page 1

180-10143-10145

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name George Frederick Munre

Address

American Embassy,

Date 6/1/78

Place Mexico City.

Time 2:00 P.M.

Interview:

Mr. Munro was interviewed by HSCA Staff.

members Gary Cornwell,

Dan Hardway, Edwin Lopez and Harold Leap. Mr. Munro said that he had

retired from the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 31 August 1960.

He started working for the CIA in Mexico City on 1 September 1960. He

retired on 31 December 1970. From 1960 to 1970 Mr. Munro said he worked

on one primary project for the Mexico City Station. He stated that he

had worked under deep cover outside the Embassy.

Mr. Munro stated that he had had nothing to do with the surveillance

operations directed at the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City.

Mr. Munro stated that he

worked outside the Embassy on liaison with the

Mexican internal security service.. He stated that in the course of his

job he did not learn anything about the assassination nor was he involved

in any aspect of the post assassination investigation. All he knows about

the assassination and the Mexican investigation he learned from Rolf

Larson, an FBI agent who was in Mexico after the assassination to coordi-

nate the investigation. Mr. Munro said that Rolf Larson is now deceased.

He also said that he thought that Clark Anderson is alive.

(more)

Interviewer Signature

Dow Handwas

Dan Hardway

Typed Signature

3320

Date transcribed

By:

180-10143-10145

60/19/28

Form

#4-A

---

## Page 2

PAGE TWO.

Mr. Munro said that the Mexican counter-intelligence service,

with whom he worked, were excellent.

He said that he ran the LITEMPO

project and that Phillip Agee's presentation of this project is

accurate. This was the only project that he worked on during his

whole tenure with the CIA in Mexico. The only people who knew of

his role in Station operations was Win Scott and Ann Goodpasture.

Other people may have known that he was working with the station but

Mr. Munro did not believe that they would have known what he was doing.

Mr. Munro added that David Phillips was a very close friend and would

have also known what he was doing.

Mr. Munro stated that it was his personal belief. that Oswald

was a Cuban agent and that his trip to Mexico had been an attempt to

lay an escape route. He stated that this belief was based only on

logic and inferences from his discussions with Rolf Larson and that

he had no knowledge about the trip or Oswald that was not in the

public domain.

Mr. Munro denied having anything to do with the arrest of

Silvia Duran and claimed that he had no knowledge whatsoever about

the arrest. He stated that on important matters Win Scott usually

dealt directly with the Mexican Security Service and it would not

be unususal that he had not informed him (Munro) even though he (Munro)

was responsible for the day. to day liaison with the Security Service.

Mr. Munro said that Win Scott was a master intelligence

operator. He said that Ann Goodpasture was one of the best case officers

he has ever encountered and that she was very, very professional.

3230

---

## Page 3

PAGE THREE.

Mr. Munro stated that he had no knowledge of any unilateral

Mexican surveillance operations but that he did know that they had

the capability for unilateral wiretaps.

Mr. Munro stated that his psydonym was Jeremy K. Benadum and

that he never authored cables. and rarely used the psydo.

Mr. Munro was shown the CIA omnibus release letter and stated

that he understood it to release him from any secrecy agreement that he

may have

signed

during the course of his employment with the CIA.

3242

---

