# 180-10144-10407

## Page 1

180-10144-10407

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DOO

3/6/28

submitted: 317/78

Leslie Wizelman

THIS COPY IS NOT

De varana

, manuel Antania

FOR RELEASE.

volume 1 of the varona tle covers from 15 0ct 19481

to sept 30,1949 and raman primarily consists ot

third agency material

Valume a couers the period from Jan 1956 to

April 1960. This file includes a biographical information turmi

dated 8/8/1957 Vorona's DOB is 1/25/1908 POB IS

Camaguey, Cuba,: Carlos Prio Socarras is listed as a

friend ot varona's, tas wife is Emilina Russ

sanchez de Varora, and his children are car los manuel de

Varana, and segura Bustamente nee de varora, He has

one brother whose name was not given. Varona has

been active in the political atfairs for the Cuban

Revolutionary Party (PRE-Autentico) since 1934

Chronologically:

@1840-44= member of House of Representatives (Cuba)

b 1944-48 = member of cuban senate

@ 1948-50 = Prime minister and Senator in Pro gout...

@ 1950-5a = - President of Cuban senata.

On Aug 8, 1957 a cable from Havana stated that the

PRo part 1 is attached and part ruo i coming. On January

22,1958 varona was gwes a a0l number and assigned a

cryptonym. On Jan 20,1958 Vorona was got granted

operational approval. (requested 22 Aug 1952)

180-10144-10407

---

## Page 2

on August 22, 1959, a request was submitted to amend

vanana's operational approvat to peomnintelligence reparting asset.

unting palitical action agent in the manian project.

on march 10, 1960, barea a cable indicates vorona

desired to speak to "accreditted" Us guuit person re

"his positus and plans"

The Havana station recommended

that somes

õel "who knows varona be authorized pau

mutation to varana for stateside

conference with

wollard Carr

appropriate persons or have tamArin

_return soonest

for cold turkey talks with varona."

In.

en march 11, 1960

cab forge Alonso Pujol to la 1000

on march 15 that varona is"

ready to jain the active

opposition to castro.. Pujal was varona's partner in the

nsurance business.

In a cable dated march a8, 1960, headquarters listed

ite its response to requests made by varona in the march 107h

cable.

sated thar

- would guarantee the entry of

leaders

tey personer and followers; economic assistance will be

forthcoming ; working as a long wave radiostaten, and "...

the establishment of a united commana

wall.

be discussed

at meeting as in the us witb

a media assets

2%,

Justo

Carrollo, Hernandez and Rubio Padillo.

In a dispatch from the chiel of Stutzun ass, Havana, dat ed

Aprel 1,1960 it is reported that santage Babun called at the

us. Embassy to see Gerald 1. Gardyne. On march 23, 1960

Babun introduced orlando Accosta and Eugenio Rolando

Martinez

to Garayne. Babun said he, Accosta and

---

## Page 3

2g=

martinez: were in close contact with Varono. Babus

asked Gardyne if he knew carlos Casaus wha resides

In the Fossa budding, Gout

anci

_claims to be a special

muestigator ter

s. Gardyne said.hedid not knew

Casaus. On March 25, 1960 Gordyne met with Babur,

Decosta, martinez and Lamberta Diaz Rodriquez.

The dispaich states that varona: probably authorized

Diaz to meet sardyne

in order to cross-check

and determine knowledge of varona's acturtes are known

u.S.Gou't

to the state Dept and s

SEE SURPORT

On April 13, 1960 Varona met with woe

andwanted.

tastes when he arrued in U.s, 70

discuss his views on the Cuban situatun with someone.

on Aprollt

Who could speak for the us. guus. varona agreedito

meet carrillo in Caracas, orp

Do. toproceed to

san Jose.

in case Figuer es

is not in caracad, to hold

conversations with frango sa Caracas. Varona commented

that he is close to Figuer es and Betancourt

A cable dated Aprel 18,1960. from Droller sta repurts..

a meeting with Buttari. Buttari was eager to introduce

Droller to Varona and for

Droller to arrange a

"Varona / mr. John" meeting. Bubari reported his son was

leawing cuba and could bring with him 8 students who

would be briefed by Bender group and sent to hemssphere

countries as agitprop types. Droller comments that

such a scheme was in lne with "our/Phollips thinking."

---

## Page 4

An April a8, 1960 cable from the Director to caraga state.

that varona st should be infurmed that ce

A otticiz)

Rabort Palmer, 15 prepared to meet him upon his acrual

M N. Y.C

Gerald Droller and sunt met with varana o

Dec 20, 1960 at "Joe Stonecrab Restaurant at miami Beach.

sta memo of contact report states that varona's scouts had

found an isolased plece of land on Andros Island, vasona

discarded she dea of usinget as a trasnung site fur a 100

people. Droller makes the comment that. "I would bet

even money that he will pursue this aspect unilaterally."

0s Nou 29, 1960

there is a it from the

edusin A

memo of conversation between varora and vallon

Robert A. Stevension, Robert iA. Hurwitch and Frank Deuie

af the Department of state. Varona had originzlly

requested to see she Asst secretary, mr. mann.. Varona

requested funas. He silted that Flonda lav enturcement was

getting stricter. Vorona was impatient.

---

## Page 5

-5=

volume 3 of the varuna file covers the dates iron

may3, 1960 to June 24 1960

A vasona was to be in NYlon may4, 1960 and

would stay at the si sort of he could get reseruations.

varana planned a leaving Miy for miami an may 6.

on mays varone mer with ar

Regnolas

_varonastated.he

planned an returning to Not 6 an may sor 9 toe a meetirig

with other cuban leaders.including tusto. carrillo, Rasco

and othersa

vasona planner on uung. Amalio Fiallo as

aget-prop sype...

Reynolos

stated that they did. not

discuss paramilitary subject becawe it was actruity

which "could best be handled in conjunchen with

private groups, ie. ire Carr-Bender gruup:" Pennolanstated

that be followed a format which be and Droller had

prepared during the political part of the discussion.

Reynolds told varuna "that certain actrustes were not within

my prounce but there

was a group that I was aware of

headea by mir. Carr (whure name nudentally varona hack.

mentioned to me fist), that tha group was completely

reliable and well intentuned and did haue the proper contacts

with our gavernment and that he should azue

Reynolos used

reservations about working with this group.

" name Rubert Rogers

with varana.

A cable from SanJare

Eduardo Altredo Espinosa de

e dated may 61 960 reports

that

HAWA and Betancourt were successful in

settling difterences between

Arango and varana.

"Pres. Betancourt told

Espinosa

that easters now wants.

---

## Page 6

-6.

Espinoza

to take measures against trujillo.

Matest - wing

to forget nicaraguan problem fur present time in order

Espinozce

→ apply bis tull efforts against Trujillo, Br asks

neat way at eat cooperate, " Lengthy fat done

EspInaza

de talles

scheduled fur may 9

varonais nephew is Abel de Varona uarez

A memorandum ter the record:, dated may. 19, 1960, states

Serahno Bomwaldi

that

5 met usth

Euestio mujal on may 1a.

The memo state that Figueras and Betencourt urgeu

Arando and verona to join in a united front. mujal state

he and Ratael oicero had a lengthy meeting with varonc

last week (iNHC). It was deuded to form the

•Frente Sindical Revolucconerio as an independent entity from FRD

but with representation on the ERD. A good candidate wa

Ratael Ofero Barlalt who is described as a contidant of

Congald i

both varone and frange.

3ul said that mujal had:

recently seen Spruillo Brader again. Braden told mujal that

Romuald i

he intended to arrange a Dulles/hujal contact.

requested $300/manth fur Otero.

station

In a cable from the Dir

to

dated May 5,

Bay of P,95

1960, was reported that Is organization was

the subject uf

a lengthy conterence today wither Floudie

Foster collins and Al CoX. It was also reported thate

is ready to go to mexico and arrange comono and eM

training sites, but won't leave unt! "your return with

---

## Page 7

conference decisions, Arime sall anxiuus inuade tarset.

Goudie

agrees our views re P.M. planning. Have vague

report from assessment sute that quate twenty five of

thirty candidates louk good end quote."

A may 26, 1960 cable from miami reparte on

niscellaneous

• FRD matters.

varana is to go to carcas on

may al to issue public statement explanng break with

castro. Gratitto Carrello will go to mexico June 30r1.

In mexico and venezuela, carrillo and. Varone will 100k

for suitable real estate.

RIcartio

Luis de la Lorse Bals

trassing commo operators.

Artime and th

are eager to move to destroy sugar fields

"Nobody seems like our approach at moment.

" suggested

varona prepare a paper. and they would discuss at a.

Licarif Bender / verona meeting..

"Bender might bring

his "military expert" to mig. vorona and corrello

again made point re need fur immediate action against Trujilla.

Droller would not give word that hicari and Droller favored.

Trujillo offer"

"asthout mach more deliberation."

varona, carrella, and rasco pantly asked whether ERD could.

mount anti-Trujallo actruities in collaberation certain unnamed

Dominicans. Droller said aduke would be furthcuming. varona

accepted first monthy payment, $ 700 honurarium, frum Droller

plus $ao0 for chauffeur.

Theble contains a neuspaper article by tal benares

entitled: "Fidel called Rea Toul, Says Cuba foe." Containis

statement by varana. Dated 5/29/60-miami News.

---

## Page 8

A may 31,1960 cable to Havana states that "deposit at

315,000 to varona account being bandled through Grupo

Bender.

(conversion it pan car to dollars)

A June a,1960 coble states that at a 31. may

meeting varona had with manolo Alcalde Incala,.

Who works for Decor Internatunal of miami ands

apparently varana's right hond man. Emprojee

A June 3, 1900 cable states

that Carbuston called

from mast

and met varona June 3.

- Asked Varana not tonform Barker

of Corbuston contact. Varona agreed to arrange an

executue committee meeting fur June 8.

A cable - July 2, 1860, from mexico city repurts that

on June a3 Ray Leday and Joe montillar interviewed varan.

Inese & eudence that varonz is under technical surveillance

"Recommond FRD leaders be warmed avoid overt u.s.

gout contact. "

Acable from Droller seporis that at the executive

commitee pu meehay, vasona and Carcello aduised that

vargas Gomez had a long sessive with william Pawley in

which Pawley said that VEEP, RUBOTTOM, Admiral Burke and

- Cardinal Spellmen were backing Rubio group and could not

agrees on policies us the FED. Thus 20-25 signatures frum

promment Americans ale being collected for leber depicting

ERD members as promoting Fidelista policies without Fichel

Communism. Letter to be transmitled State Dept. via Cardinal

Spellman.

---

## Page 9

On June 1,1960 a meeting occurred between (mdr Pons

and Michael M. Maney. Pons said he had been altempting.

to recruit crew members for maritime operations

It was common knawledgein mom that varuna bach

the backing of the CIA (according to Pons). It is known the?

Diaz: Tamaya has substantal sacking from Amaricans.

ENU Guttierez, who works fer uorona, ottered toobtain

a number of ISt's for pons and is also trying to recruit

Navy types....

_Pons met with varona who asked Pons to.

Jara bes group.

Pons

said he would like to meet with

mr. Abbot (Dave Phillips) an June ly.

trgn Havance

A June ao, 1960 cable reports that on June 17

that Edward D. Knapman was introduced to Capt. Eduardo

Ferrer, Fernor arranged fur knapman to meet Raman Ruis.

sanchez Piedad , varone's brother in law.

Russanchez when vorone's with left cubo. Statun discourage

future relationstop with Ruis Sanchez, untess has, has we to contray.

sanchez may become victim of castro provocation.

A June a3, 1960 cable to mexico City reports that

a conference suite bes has beer reserved at the

Commodore for June 28 thou July 5. Droller would like

a meeting with varona before July 3.

Ramualdi

al pole Dauis

June a2, 1960 there was a meeting

Keith. macphee

Romuãldi

setten, and testem, mujal told Brigass that he

had deen told by FBI contacts not to allow his supporters

to undertake assassination plots against the castros.

che buevardetc.muialfeelth.outs...hmontherpat

---

## Page 10

-10-

"because it an attempt of this type is made, the FBI

might hold bum responsible and mand chun to deporti

him. He then was assured by let

genest that he could

not: be deported without cones aston and adused.

to tell the FBI to mach its aura bissness."

Voluone tour of the varora file covers the period

from Julyl, 1960 to Sept 30, 1960:

A memo for the thief of the WHD dated July 1,1960

reports that Droller had a a hr meeting with varma in

NYC. Droller told varona that mr Burke Hedges "had no

-place

in our aperation." Hedges was trying to raise funds tram

United Frust Co; Kuhn Loeb, Rhodes & -Co, Standard Ool UF NI.&

Am. Power -& burght co memo suggest that companses be instructed

"to bar their dours to Hedges."

A July 14,1960 MASt cable reports that Artime &

varuna have submited a listot 20 people for candidacy.

second phase training.

A July 20, 1960 cable from Havana states that un July 19

Pr. mario del Canal Ferrer, una described humself as pincipal

representative & coordinator fur varana, contacted pal offerer

John Topping and wanted discreet contacts with the Embassy as

contacts: already established through Jesto Exposito Lorenzo.

& Juan Menender Tellez wese not sufficient.

when varona left Cuba he introduced Noel

_to Jestu

Exposito lorenzo as his "personal representate aral

---

## Page 11

-11

_onlo

_person who authurized to act as chenne!

between stahon and varong." The statun is disturbed that.

indiscreet approach made to Embassy revealling that

covert : channel existed to varanc

A memo doted July a6,1960 separts a telephone call

from Jack malone to Raßeypola

_malone reported that verona

had asked me. Lowell Tash to sit Andros Island norder to

lease 301 yasses of land. Tash will be instructed to go to Andras

and report bock in malone. Tass was the furmer manager af

A July a8, 1960 ouble from maste Reports that mario del

Canal is "head man and general coordinatur in Cuba" far

Varonas Rescate.. Code name = Patricio menendez Tellez

put varina in touch with does

A August 4, 1960 MASH cable reports varona will be in

Dice for a Rugs meeting with Reiple to Reaple Committee.

will been Not Bugt and will call Droller. Returning Miami.

Auig 6.

rente Exei. come 10,1960 mast cable reports that after Droller 1

e meeting varona stated FRD is not flexible enough,

Droller is too stingy Droller told varora, that Dioter group

favors varona as lender. Droller believes it is time to start

funding FRD ost af agreed $131,000 / month." Beginning sept.

all funding to be hanaled via mexi (Note: Pis be sure

Hunt

has cash and swiss account auarlable upon his arrival mexi

---

## Page 12

varora arrived miami tron mexico on August 18, 1960

An Aug 19,1960 fepor Mexico City.Cable reports that

mexican athcal bas dechned to grant varona resenter permit

following proposed tripto los Angeles fur "press cunference."

tunt teels the La Angelos trip is a turther example ot

FeD exeC.coMYn

varona Be

predeliction to substitute us. travel fuc

FRD.

• Copsm.

urganizatcos actuity in mexi

A Ang 25, 1960 cable from Director to medice IMASH

reports that during varong's recent ust to us. he

reportedly: salicitech funds las vegas gamblers. Suggest at your

discretión you prose repari. "

A leter from varona to Droller, dated Aug 26, 1960

requestry les residence permits fur

mr.8 mrs Jose I. Garcia,

Mr. a mrs. Roberto Salis, and mr. & Mas. Carlos Rosello, who

lue in spark, Navada and are the " our representatue

over there and in calit.

A Sept 10, 1960 cable from Hunt reports that Hunt

presented vorona with new organizational plan which varuna accepted.

Munt will work on Rasco to accept plan. Rappurt is beter therever

A Sept 15, 1960 memo reports that varona arrived in

NYc during the early pom on september 14 and was

planningse staging in M.C. for a percod of two days

#a On =0s 17 subject was planing to proceed to 115

Venetan way, san marine, Flureda.

Da Sept 16, 1960 cablo trom mah reports that

Sosa told Droller & Wither

of varona's strong desire

to seturn to Cuba soon. Droller telt it would be an excellent

s.tera.

---

## Page 13

113.

cuntact

A sept aã, 1960 report by proller reports a

meeting of varona, Wither, and Droller in cural Gables en

Sept22, Varana discussed the possibalsty of his return to i

Cuba.: Drasier thought it was a good idea for varona to

retrim to cuba Requested a detaded statement from varonsi.

Varona said he was going toN.s on sort the evening

of the 18th.

A Sept as, 1960 cable from masti reports that jerry

W. Ecler torte, Prese of Sears Roebuck in Cuba, has beer

approache by manuel podriguez to serve a an alternate

courier fur FRDa Rodriguez sald he is the intermediary between

ERD & recuperacion in Cuba fur mutual suppurt coordination bath

-groups. He trauels Havana-miam. 3 times month and meets

Ecank Zayas and/of Tony varune to give & recese plans a

rastructans

A Sept a9, 1960 cable reports that on Sept a2,

larona was appointed general coordinator at FRD

A Sept 30, 1960 memo by Droller reports on ao Sept 27

meeting with varora at the la moderne motel, coral Gablo..

witner & Droller met

& varuna brought droller up to date on

with

events which had taken place ofter his return a carrillo

from meeting with Huat & Dialec

official washington,

1 Varona reported that a high-level 'American had recenty

come thraugs miami and had spoken to william Paulley. An

Exe.

agreement was reached between this Am. I Pawley that the

Commi

tarate would be replaced by

Rubio Padsilo & Co.

---

## Page 14

-14-

vol Five of the varona file covers the period from

- Oct 1; 1960 tO DEE 30, 1960.

Witneran act 3,1960 meno reports a meeting with varona

Septis, & Droller on Sept aki varona staled that Goudied

Elena felt bad abait Jimsmith dealing our their reads.

Droller told vorona that"

uh would send in the future certain

equipment into cuba. af everything went well, I would

inform bus and the Fed could take the credit, If something

went wrong, the ERD, however, would true to take the blame

An Outs, 1960 trum 3mmAsH reports meeting of Hunt 8

varona. Agreed that Hunt

ne camaintain normal contact with

varuna and oiher:

• members plus Sosa and Putst

Paula. Also has right to descuss opns with departmental chiefs.

FraUeLS. BrOWn

witner and set will confine contacts to departmental.

Chiefs plus Sosa. Also, no use American should make

commitmont to any cuban without consultation with varong.

"Believe above reasonable.....

However.a.practical terms

none of above intended curtail current produciun ar

relatunsbeps."

An Oct 6,1960 cable repurts that varana stuted

that a cubana plots and navigator whotly Castro un

Internatonal flights are ready to defect AFYI: It pilots

really tly Castro this open other opal possibilities.

Am Oct 8,1960 cable reports that Hunt, usa Barker,

Is becoming familar with working leved of ERD matters

---

## Page 15

-15%

18.

and pertormance.

Anoetr, 1960 most cable repurts that Hunt shoulch

remind varana of agreement reached with Bender whereby

Witner retains contral and funding p: FRD afficliates

ArQst8, 1960 mass cable (Achos, mr.Phellops) siates that

vacona ls saterestedi en nauunrag

Ponn. ops as palitical fauar fur

contacs with non-FRo suppurters uno are dessrous unlire

varana's adcess

to aroos saurce. sosa has mace a

Fravel S. Brown

approaches to ttsm).

_verona wantta use Alberta Fernandez

Echevarria and Nino Diaz. Sosa clamed that varona 1s.

in contact with an unnamed induidual who owns a smalt plane

which hes made two tlights from Flurda in last 2 wks.

to make armss deltvery

:t Duque group 10 Escambrey .

"Basic elemert uf enterest abuue is Varona's willingness breck

own FeD administrativo channels."

AnDet 1a, 1960 CablE sxpints from Jmmasit reports

that the bre has selected stucents fur tirst propaganda

team : Ramon Borquin Canterio, Carlos de varona, Miguel:

A. Garcia

Acmenge, manuel salvat Roque , Alberto muller"

y quentana.

Alberto Roque may use allas Jue Castell

A contact report by Droller dated oct 1I, 1460

Romaula.

Romauidi

reports a meeting with nike

HoGrnd

On Oct 17.

a said he

is to have a meeting with Varmna and hoped

Ba MER'S

entry into FRD would be accomplishec soun.-Requested

assistance to infaltrate one. uf nis men , ENU CRESPI

---

## Page 16

-16°

An oct 17, 1963 contactre purt by droller of a meeting with

martinez Fraga: on oct 13 reports that Fraga was to go

to Paris un Out 14 to persuade Alonso Pujal "to return tis

the U.S. in arder to begin and carry out the mportan?

work of a "behind-the-scenes" cullaboratur with FRO.

Oraller approved,.

as did Varora-

An act 18, 1960 custact report by Droller reparts a

meeting with Varons.

varana requested arms be supplied

and that we put inguise into the details at ham he would

dispose of them. made other requests. No commitment given.

An Oct 198, 1960 cable reports that varna halbeen

rebuked.for oct.17th.r@candon at 18 Hunt told varona

that material still unaccounted fur. varina began taking.

steps to recover.... No reason to believe any key materials.

purporely withheldan

An Oct 20, 1960 cable from mast reports that

C. Osmunt moody sacc that Pawley had called

him ana told him to contact varora who was to contact

his CIM cuntaCt

Pawley said his instructions ome

trom "JAKE,"

and ocras

On Oct 20, 1960 Varuna was in New York.

(Director)

An Oct 25, 1960 cable repurts that the state Dept man

who vorona was in contactwith was really a representatue of

the Senate Investigation Committee in touch wth varona

thru senator smathers - according to Lem Jones.

---

## Page 17

-_ 17=

ao Get 31, 1960 cable reports that subjects picked up

sately by coast guard cutter a hrs off key west. mast

Ibces braught subjects to mAsit safe house. "Planned

speration PAT discussed. main points were recogniton

signal ana selectica renderau purnts."

varona is to have a-press conference in N.LCon

On sso Octas, 1960 a meeting of Droller, Hunt, and

Varora- was beld in Hunt's apt. Varona is planning

to discharge Lem Jonel.

Noo 3; 1960 cable reports discussions with

Rogello Gonzalez y Corzo and Jim Pekich. Feels Varona

has subuerted the cawe a

An Oct 25, 1960 dispatch from JMASH repoets that

Jesus Rodriguez y moreno appeared at the INS office

and requested a passport.

ie indicated he was returning to Cuba

on aspecial mission for varona and is to coordinate

counter revolutionzy acturties in the Penar del Rio: to

Havana area..

A Nou 4, 1960 cable requests that varona

be told that above arbitrary achun could prove counter productu

MASH

A Nou 9, 1960 Cable repurts that varona has hired

Adeen, Osborne and mcLaney, 100 Biscayne Ave, miami as

his puble relations form.

A Nou 14, 1960 IMASH cable reports that Varona is to

Gerive In D.C.on Nou 15 for consultation with Guatemalen

Ambassdo to U.J and DAS.i

---

## Page 18

18º

MER repurted to successful does to Duque forces

0a Nau 3 anal by Varona wing Cessnas arcraft

Each drop consisted of 60 susmachine gun.

A Noval, 1960 contact repod by Droller at a

meeting with Raul Chibas and JuGn Estevez Ramiras on Moult

jists the current argenzatin of the more in exile. malay-

wanted Droller to be reassured of MRp's friendihip for hit.

Proller gave Chibas a 88400 check

SIMASH

A Noualiato cable states manolo Ray hes

phased varana.and-arrangea.ta. see vacana a miami

A NOU 22, 1960 contact report by proller of a

meeting with to (Hamilton and varona states the

varona was tola he might be a good idea to visit pil

during week of Nouad to pay a courtesy call onsomeone

in the office of secsetary mann.

(MASH 1841)

A Nou 24,1960 cable trom IMASH to Director

reports that"

Pedro DIaZ.

Lanz has jorned PRD, banging nts

it the following pilors: Abel Hera Cortury Frank Ficent,

Francisco Llano, Evangelista Mursuli, Ramun Pi Fuentes:

Nestor Alvarez, Fernando Carcia and Carlos Diaz Lanz

"Shortly atter soining PRD, Diaz suggested to varona

the establishment of a special missiva graup comprising.

the above personnel; all of whom, according to Diar

Lanz are qualified as A/C mechanics. The group would

drop Fen FRD

leaflets on aties, small towns and

cooperatives and could tly Cargo missions when sequined.

---

## Page 19

-19°

"to prepare themselues fur standby, readiness Diaz has

requested varona and varuna has querled Hunt for tunds

to:@rehabolidate the personally-owned Bas ALcot

Diaz at a coto apprax $2500 @ provide pilots withi

Link traner tone (8 pilots at to hrsmantbly, at cost.

ot sphie and @consider purchase of float equipped.

Cessna

180 and or alo for ert infillertel ofs

" While realize present polky precludes us-based

flights, desire at minimum maintain flight proficiency

thes integrated group whose current and future actrusties.

could be munitured and directed by the newly-establuted

jant cuband American aperatice section of the mile

cosmissen

"Tempocary solution has been to assign Diaz groun

to transpart commission, which nous furchons under mil.

commission; but tunds are not currently budgeted for link

trainer time.

82.

"Request has approve initial link trainer refresher

of 196015 bis each pilot, then month tycost ut

$ 640. Not likely training to extend beyond three

months. "

A Nou 29,1960 leter to Dave from unidente fred person (may

be Lem Jones) states that varona has deuded to hire a new

public relations Dutfit in N. - connally Assoclates heaced by

---

## Page 20

-20-

Joe Carnally, Is, who has been a NiY: Carespändent

fas Adeeh, Osbarse, and malaney. Osborne pretenas to

know nothing about what is going an. Joe wants no part of it

A Dec 9, 1960: WAVE Cable: reports varona is absent

Miami until Dec 13

A Des 10, 1960 cAble se from mexica

reports

that Longen

GatEgy. Stanley moos

(me. Langan plans to take

- employee

mees to washington

on Decla, 1960 Will travel Hausten via 20

es house.

Possible newlead on Dee 9, 1960 when one Johnson

ENU speaking Teras, English, phoned the Cuban Embassy

in mexico city

saying had "very very important"

into to giuo them. Said info about dr. varona

once

Florencio of N.Y." A Decla, 1960 mexico cable repurts

that subjects true name is Thomas Howard Griggs.

P:Al Dec 13, 1960 cable reports that Ponchay

(employse) met Gustavo musielier, Cuban lawyer

now i exile in miami do Dec ll arais, manson

attended

meeting using name Rabert vincent.

General discussin

re cuban exple unity or lack there of.

A Dec 16,1960 dispatch: from IMWAVE includes

a list of personnel of

the Rescate group.

A Dec 16, 1960 cable reports a meeting with

Hunt/varona - varona was negative about use ot

mujaland bis assets. Hurt told varona that he

should not object if Bender group explores use

at mujal independently. of FRD:

---

## Page 21

28

A: DeC 19,1960 WAUS cable reports that

per seargery (employer) vecoal query at WAuz,

Rafael ("macho") Genor working with ERD. Varona

approves visa for cute

A Dec 19,1960 cable from Havana reports

Augusto Ruiz. Sanchez

lengthy-meetings. with t

- Disallusioned

loith FRD and varana.

A Dee 19, 1960 dispatch resorts that

Jose Joagus Sentenis ferdona reports that

Gisela Garcia de solis, who resides at 314 1. s+,

Sparks, Nevada is the wife of Roberto salis Who

works at the Hotel Riverside in Reno, Nevada.

She is working for FRD in Nevado, LA, San Francisco

Rena, and las vegas. Recommended for job by

varona and lujal.

Val 6 at the varona file covers the dates from

January. 61 50 may 31,1961

A Tan 5, 1961 reporte lasAUE cable reports that Nino

Diaz spoke with varona

and marhn Elena Agreed.

that Nino would join FRD

Romaul indenter training.

Nina says that

§ claims Bender prouding

25,000/ math for

parma

suppurt and asks that support

maula

be stopped since

Ambrother is treasurer, and

meR

uses funde for politcal control.

exer-comm

romauldi

dissidentgroup.voted.tod.rgp

get frum Committee

---

## Page 22

22-

sincehe is not willing to yoin the FRD or go to training.

A memo for the secord dated ton 6, 1961 from

Richard T. Biladeau, reports that me. Lee Grolls, pres

of consolidated Production coft. lauderdale, angaged

in the produchon ot explosives and he nou hes a neu

type he wishes to make known to the us. gout. Currently

engaged in falling a sarge order fur Cubans. Gave names:

varona.

Frederick Goudie, Flosentine Blance, A guelera

Grills is in business with leurs O'Connur and Joseph

O'Connor.

A January 13, 1961 meno for the recurd reports a

conuersanes betrueen

sarker and varona concerning the

Cuban exile group's visit to washington: varona said

there were plans to shank Eisenser for the million dollai

tor cuban exile reliät , to ust Peruelan Amb- tou.s., and

to speak to reps of the DAS. This is a follower up

at approachy manuel Brand to amr. white and mr.

Hopkins

who are associated with the white House.

Vorona's rep in N.Y is Eduardo Gonzalez.

An undated page heuded with "Director". CIn"

states that It is requested that we be aduised whether

your Agency is in a posites to know us any extensive

financial backing of vorona and Frente, and if so,

whether there is any other data avallable indicating

substantal contributions by gambling interests in

---

## Page 23

23

a January al, 1961 cable feem wave resorts that oo

Jan 17 varona told Barker that he had been informed that

Pawley was beginning legal acton against ERD through

wash attoney marshall Diggs on a complant tated

by FNLL Perez Abreu, a cuban lawyer, Bari of complaint

is said to be mis management of fundi

-varonasaid

Justin Glei chauf

13 supposed te know details

A memo for the recara, dated Jan 23, 1961

by michael m. maney repurts that "In atelecon

with Francisco Saralegui (Bohemia Libre) do this

date, he confided to me that he had been tolch

by Lopez Fresquet of a conversation which Lopez

hack had with the president on saturday. He was

promised that onse a beachhead was established in cuba,

a provisional gout shoud beset us constreted

by Ruto Lopez Frequet

that us. would

miso, and varuna. pres

allegedly promised is recognize gout.

varananas to partcrate na radio/JU publis

events show. in Nyc on Jan. al. on febl newas

to address a women's group in washington D.c

A Jan 30, 1961

cable reports that Hunt has

authonzed Varona approach broad list of exiled.

figures with view of acorporaton into ERu.

A Feb 1,1961 dispatch states that a tape

_received from Pawley, which records a conversation

between Fabio Freyre, Rubio Padillo, Cuervolubio,

san iman is attarhort

The

am.brertra

not niace

---

## Page 24

2Y

an Jan 30, 1961. (US GA- 765) (The tape 11

not in the fole

A contact repuct by Draller dated Feb 2, 1961

reports that Pujol questioned Droller if he would

centnue aven at the change in administrator.

Droller said he would and that "As a private

American atreen; changes in the administration would

not affecime in any cale, but there is no indicatiün

that even uncer the new administration there would be

any change in our work.

A Feb 2, 1961 cable from BELL reports that

Conte Aquers

and Pedro Diaz Lanz are returning to

miami on Febt. "As result inability obtar visas

with permissic fur plane, tour to be withror both

ula commercial llights." Alleged offer of varona

to Diaz

Lant to make him replacement for

manuel

Unlatana martinez.

A Feb 1, 1961 WAVE cable reports that wASP

is schedualled to leave.. marathon and will extiltrate

Emélio Gonzalez Castellanos, Benito Medina Garcia,

Gilberto Sadenas,

Alberto Gonzalez Picio, and

Carmel Gott arne.

WASD is a 26' yacht.

A Feb 12, 1961 MADD cable reports that Hunte

remurning to miami

-an fed13 andulact.auan

escort fur varona, Artime, a maceo on flight to

traina area. Consenses that Juan.. Arace.. Paula u Balz

---

## Page 25

25

trip should be delayed unhl after departure above

_persons tron.area.arder. nut.

imply Paula part os

-polstructure

A Feb 13, 1961 cable from BellIS reports that

Jose Joaqua Sanjenis Perdomo has repurtea that

he has been

unable to determine whether or nut

varona is in cantact with

-Celline , turmot McLeary,

Adeeb, and Osburne, public relations torin las vegas, Nevade,

crEdwarak.moss of Chase/mass Internile Barkee

wellbeasked to aste varcna.

Sonsenis has no

record of Jula Cellins of any other members ot

the cellini fomely.

A Feb 13

1401

WRuE cable reports that

Jolindy togers.

varona.ana.so

sue met

with Barker interprenng, on.

Febil. Discussec military matters.

A Feb 17, 1961 bANE cable reports a meeting

on Feblo with varona, Artime, stunt. Hunt taped

pa "substanhal" part of mig. Discussed military problems.

on Feb 17, 1968, Hunt, varona Alvarez and maceo

went to Guatemila

A Feb 18, 1961 & WAVE cable reports that

Juventino

Umberto Figueres Gonzalez disclosed that Baez, Furmer

Cubana pust and head Britannia plut, i reluctant to take

Is Feb trip to Nit and make pitch to Cubana crew until

he ableassunethem.they can count on some tinancial

assistance following plot. WAvE plans on offering reach at

6 participants in flight flat

# 1,000 payment upon

- arrival plane in Guatemala.

---

## Page 26

÷26-

A s memo to the FBI, dated Feb 24, 1961

(atten: S.J. Papich) reports inã into crA nadan

Cellini, and requested into on Bernard Nucilli

A Fes 28, 1961 a memo by raller states that

Droller and Napoli met unth varena on feb 17. On the

sameday they had a meeting with both varond and

Rayiproller presented on list of 28 names frumwhich

they were to choose 10 sue the prousional gout Ray

became upset. Also gave thema I puint progren as

discussed with the chief of the western Hemisphere

DuIsIOn. It was agreed that varona would cer to

SEES NY on Feb 26 to meet duith Artime, Cacallo,

hibas & pazos ana decide ca nomes. They wauld return to Doc

sa march l Droner makes the commant "we belleue varona

splay ball one way or another, but we are not convoced

sat Ray will acceptour list. We have the impression that

= might want to substitute brawn lut, of course, we noust see

nat he comes up with. In any case it is our view that we should

ot rush matters unduly if there is real state Dept interest

having mr. Pay and company play a role in the provonel

overoment. spould the decision be made to write Ray aft, we

deve the Assembly could be convated without too much

do, substituting miro carduna fur Ray." Conversation was

aped.

A memo for the record dated march 2, 1961, by Droller,

seports a march a meeting a of varona, Ray, a mr.

lilliard rare on marcho in the shoreham. The mootine

---

## Page 27

_27.

was taped. The presence of Mr. Carr was explained. " He would

preserue the continuity. of the Bender group whose seniac partier

he had been uns from the inception of the project; he waula

also be a reutace in as much as behas not been very

achue in the project for the last four to fue nroaths..

Erica.

He was theretire aked by WitD Chiat to assume ralkat.

pamary negonator in the establishment of a revolütionary.

council. He agreed & was fully briefed by bool& dioller..

A maren a11l6 disparish reports that

miro cardona nad grien the following into

"It was unequivocal in criticizing varona for

recruiting notorious political gangsters, such as bunzalez

Cartas and taste Humberto Rodriguez Diaz (Known

assassins and labor racketeers, as body guands.".

A marchay, 1461 Bellcable reports that

numerous

FBI reports indicate Jesu) Gonzalez Cartar alias

El Extrano as gangster murderer smuggler and arug

addict who identcal with Trance y88a.RERAnd

Subj nat rpt not to be used reported also be ij

one af varona's to bodyguards. The other is equally

bad."

April 10, 1961 cable reports that varona will be in

NIC allthis week.

fice of securaty

April 15, 1961 cable reports that Draller, Licari, and

sEsata rep will escort cardona

from NYC to

Opa Locka an Aprelb. All members will make flight

but Varera who is now n miami area. Upon arua l

Mantacle Cardour dill an mate sealusion.

---

## Page 28

-28=

-A Aprel 25, 1968 meno byocoller reports that

varona called bim on Bert al and requested 100

recrusts now in Mili besent to quatemala. Miro

also called mico conaplained that ashele he had promised

the pilots in Nicaragua 330 hardship day an American

named "Joe" had made payments of taro

A may 15, 1961 dispatch reports that a cans of

exposed 35mm tina taken from files confiscated frem

varona's Radop are bergient, Requests develop film.

amay19,190 aspatc

reports a may to meeting

Alberto de Josus Alberty

of Cardyne with as to discuss latest euents

and status of new pilots organizaten and the new Naval

argansanui

At a mayle meeting the pilots (those

preulously in the training camps and others in the

nami area uno agreed to alend, includina Pedro

Alberto cie Jesus Alberti

Diaz Lanz elected m

5 tubechief of the

new cuban: Die Force in exile

A may a2, 1961 aspatch reports that pintonio

' Fernandez Gomez

aka Bentonio Fergo

is a close biend

at varonas and represents firm Publicidad Fergo-Arrego S.9

Ud 8 of tre varona file covers the period tram

June 8, 1961 to Sept. 1970.

A memo by Droller, dated June 9,196 reports a

luncheon meeting with Cardona and Ernesto Aragun at

the mayflower Holel. mino reported le meetingot

miro, varona, and Aragon with Goodwin and me.

Schlesinger, who professed confidence in mira. muro gave

---

## Page 29

29

Goodwin proposed budget for cRC

A- June 1a, 1961 dispatch reports a cumor in miami

that varona: has quer $300,000 deposited a an unidentited

bank in mami, me souse at funds is waknown

A Jane 1y

196l cable reports that Artime- is

settingup 5 rendevous points about 5 miles Dutside Havara

Habbor for estel infil aps.

A July 7, 1961 memo by droller eourts on paymemo

made to varora. Varana is being pala $900/moath. Varona

was promised by noelt that he would recorue support for

operational plans and personal needs. May 20, 1960-payments

were.discussed at tida. 200 la to go to chaufter - Francisco

Zayas. Pall by Bender check- June 1. 1960 - NoU 1960

From Nou1960 to march 1961- paid directly in cush by lunt

April & may 1961 pala by Bender check from Hag

Payments were in addition to salary from ERD. "As of July 3,

1961, I was at the opinius that we should not pay carona

anything more under the table, but inview of the special

Group decision, if I am correctly informed, of encouraging

our dealings with numera Cuban groups and personalities,

it might be wise to keep in touch with varona for sume

time and pay him some reasonable amt as nothing cements.

trendships beter than money " Routing Sip contains remaris

that we should hold off. varuna is one of must bitter

critics. "I don't prost propose ta buy him off."

---

## Page 30

-30÷

on July?,1961 Varona called the CIA löbert Chemberlain

has been designated as replacement fur Jerry Droller in

liaison matters with cardana.

A July 10, 1961 dispatch reports that major

Roberts & VanHorn USA, assistant air attache

to Cuba assigned to the miami area to be liaisco

with Cuben pilots in miam. -

A July, 1961 memo for record by Chamberiano

report a centect with verona. varana 13 in D.c.

staying at the Roosquelt Hotel. He will be in D.t.

for three or four days..

Gramberlenn used name of

Raymond Clark, varona asked several questions re state ol

affairs , but recewed no answers. Asked houd to get in

touch with ben. Taylor and was told to go through mr. Goodwin

On July l, 6l vacona requested money tor 3

prisoners lobo werestranded at the mariott. Answer: No.

On July 26, 196l a meeting of FRD members was held.

They tried to aust varona and fight started, Police came

and arrested. several: people:

Allonsa

1. Tarabochia, deputy...

Vincent Rafed Zorrilla t

sherift in miami. told t

that-no charges woula

be pressed. Police only took acton against people criticizing

Varana: Tarabochia held over a hr. conversation with varang.

Report from miami

A sept 9, 196l cable from miami repurts the cRe

and the FRD will merge around sept i5.

miro will

be head and varona second

---

## Page 31

-31=

A CRC meetung was bed on act 9,1961 In NYC $

varora was present. Vorona usited San Jose on Aúg 17,1962

On Aug 15, 1962 Verona usited President Raberto

Chiari at Panama and requested a meeting of central American

chiets of state co Cuban issue Rumor in miani thatefforts

are being made to counce fesident Chari: to pormit

the establishmens in Panama et Cuban gout merile.

On Aug ay varona renunca to mami

0a 0c3/1968 varora had a meeting wits Hurwitch.

in washington

on Deca, 1962 , varoramet with pres morales af Honduras

andseveral other leaders of cuban group. varone made,

-Qlengthy statement that the cIR was responsible fur the

current lack of acting and that the CIR was workirig

behrad back of kennedy.

0nJan 11, 1863, Uacona departed fur SanJose.

An information recors, dated Jan 17, 1963 states that while

varora was in costa Rica an unnamed large landowner

in costarica went to the Rescate miami Hagito discuss

the leaving af some of his cootal land in costalica

to varons varona was irritated de learn thus man

had called i his absense.

OnSeat 16, 1963

Dr martin pella met with varona

¿ Luis Botifol in Chicago. Pella informed Varona &

Botifol were discussing the possibility of setting up an

export-import-business

fur trade with ladn Americawith

- Hyman Berg, a chicago automative paris man known to

---

## Page 32

32

baue sold jeeps & parts to castra insa and 6a

Told pella they were broke and frustrated. Vorona, tolc

Pella he capinta Paolino Sierca in Nicaragua

who had a ruleof $10,000. Hetold varona he was

being backed by big busmess in chicago and we

in a positiva ta get millians fer an anti- Castro revdution.

Feb as,1964 cross-reterence sheet states that

Vacona's rantihand man is mario del Canal Ferrer

On June 7, 1865 Varona noved from miami

ta uy and bécame auto salesmen.

A 1970 cable (Sept) reports that varone, Carlos.

m. Torres and Enrique H. de Franco are supporting

march to Del. on behalf of cuban revolutionry party:

in northern vis. Truepurpose is la picket white House

with slagars. Freedem o the seas and freedem fur Bosch.

Aprel ay, 196d report by

Robert F. Muroney, ie

custody of revolutonary counal 19-a0 April 1961, descabes

valz of varona's file is a Biograftic file.

It contans answers to questioni 36 thre 58 on varanz's

PRQII. varona was first introduced to Palinger in may

1957 wallare A Growery - Varona's case atticer

varona was classified as an "indigenau feldagent."

On a Aa Aug 28, 1959 Operational approval was amended

for: use of varona

as a

PP agent in Project

Fureign Intelligence reporting

Asset.

---

## Page 33

33 =

On Apuel 23, 1963 a meeting was held with

Varona to aduise bm of liquidation of cRC.

A document cross ref. re miami visit ot

Emile Herceval, dated April 2s, 1963. States that

varona was very pro American

and when asked

about xennedys Administration, Tony was amering.""

Father knows best.

---

