# 180-10143-10116

## Page 1

180-10143-10116

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Nolut Seit to

Crite

000/33

Hold in

TUS COPY IS NOT

SECRET

FOR RELEASE®

Hardway note

file

Mickey Holds mith opened

the interview by explaining

the release letter and the

mandate of the House Alest

tolDillenger dandElestetner. =

Ma bestetner Haid that

he haid been the heard of the

soviet lection of the Metico.

City Itation in 1965.

His main

dusty as tons interator n

and their

activities for recognition

purposes. and espionage/.

counter=espranage activitie

In line with these goals Mr

I lestetner Liças responsible

personnel and thorough

agents who were in contact

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Quily

Do Not Reproves

10103.0016

---

## Page 2

_ SECRET

000134

to betters stention

Mo Dillenger remembered

that they recieved all the

This included the bpanish

and the Englich Transcripts

although the English.

then ta rally aired later

Must Allenge indicated that

ofspanish. 9.

"working knowledg'"

I Mo. Setetner twas

responsible for reporti

---

## Page 3

000135

SECRET

3

Dn 1963 Mrs Dillenger 2

cripts were read daily

as a matter of routine. She

photo production was not

reviewed unless anne

soodpasture referedit to

the teners versee con

carbon copies of the transcripts

on yellow paper. betracts

from the transcripts.tver

anu "P" files.

They were less sire but

four part.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

4

0136

indicated that materials

ere probably detrayed

after

Ther

Frank estancano

nglish. Mo. Destitner

ndicated that he had.a

it working relation

rataff. and

relied aw him for person-

ality assessments on boviet

---

## Page 5

SECRET

-5-

013>

photo surveillance was

maris of the contier.

nation in repared

personalitiest desments orally

---

## Page 6

SECRET

-6-

0138

broken Russian

with Anne. Goodpasture

n things of interest. The

was not case contac

between the Cuban and

soviet Operations.

from the soria neraton

They indicated that Sarasall]

not, as a rule, make

notations on the transcripts.

as a vile he made his

notations in a seperate

sistend cotta utter)

did make stor

« that Bananato

---

## Page 7

SECRET

=7-

0139

< Jarasaff Juras an exact

transense.

=, he never determai-

his own as to

whether something cas

relevant to counter-intelli

gence, counter-espionage, eta

convey indicated that are.

They could not recall th

maration permanho

They said that the

umilate

an Haps were not

redted at the soviet

embossy

Embarry bustat the pinat

Mo sistetner said that

Agent were penetration

onsulate.or.military

Attachis offices.

aid flee fine huttier 3

Im!i

---

## Page 8

SECRET

-8-

0140

contacts were sestricted

to social meetings, discus-

sion of personality.eralua-

tions, and on rare accasion

transmittal of thE tapes ar

transcriptato settnerd

Farasaff)more than an

other translator and that

he was more than

adidately competant,

The

hady rementered that bet I

Aeration the iver they

---

## Page 9

SECRET

_9÷

0141

he was close to Hain Scott

studio bon photogra

the embassy

I Dillen

said that!

no destetner.]

to the best of their recollection

lo worked on the Mexico

desk. They said that the infe

get anally Rested would

i have gone higher unless

not,

2M.2

---

## Page 10

SECRET

0142

10

int Mo Sestetsors opionion,

madamasalmont

y routine, espciall

[ McRa

yasananalyst.in

whar

section.

andwas.mivolied.in

I the sensitive surellan

operations, SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

0143

San Made lance:

arellance tear

volved in

mostaf the

atall of th

@ operations, if

I Mo bestetner said that

re-use.

I Mr. Sestetner said that

Sarasoft would routinely

identify partici

congratan pa could and.

the transcript. 'se does nat

recalleverinstructing Tarasot)

not to make marginal.comme

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

-/<

0144

gas intelligenes

officers

to hour dould binst anger.

indicated that her memory

was that the hat ste had

the first notice that the

had

was from a tran-

sriptaf.ascialds.cover-

Lation with a gaudon

Ictober 1st abaut a visa

Ther

they wen the hansaript

---

## Page 13

SECRET

-13-

0145

sillengertdid.not. recall

this t

ranscist as the

first one she saw. Afte

seeing the cable she sent to

XQ ow 1018 she said that thi

ranscript must have freer

the one becourse of th

similarity of the sta

of the infor When

reference to a visa in the

conversation; she acknow.

legded that there was not

such a reference. Themasked

to solhat the memory pe

am to Mashingtor

and the fact that he was

talhing the contreat had

reciening this transcripti

have had alread

e priotrachched them

Because of the glence of

---

## Page 14

SECRET

14

0146

someof the pra traw.

tron of some of the

transcists nevealed rati

indications thatIAllenger.

---

## Page 15

SECRET

0147

15

p" file was in his hand-

made at the time that

conversations was noted

prior to the assassination.

pre Thent Dillenger was

asked about the paragraph

m Mexi 6453 about th

photo she said that she

ust have checked the

photos. She was showna

a photo ugs chosen bron

since Asiald had indicated

I Arous sitin the ?

that that or into a

ram can plays warilal

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-16-

D148

afa have hate arenad

"sic" after Henry. to indicate

that scatt had speculated

---

## Page 17

SECRET

=17-

0149

spoken to Kastikor she

said that the could not

remember but she was

she she mint ha

prol no there sho

would.

---

## Page 18

SECRET

18

0150

then

did song that shel

thosc other details."

entano

Hestetner said that it

was ver

thas very unlikes that

with Dave Phillip

- testetner acknowledge

a photo of is gusting

not recall recrevino

response to this cable. When

asked whether he hadever

heard that, orany

to the effest that amore

iphoto of Oswald Sestener ]

in the

positive. He then retracted

isanswer.and.denied.ere

knows

~ photo bestetner said that

taben bya terkpist in Russia

---

## Page 19

SECRET

19

015z

indobtained by. OCD. that

he would expect it to-be in

the so the back now badged

He noted that the inferen

was that the date was

September 28.,

Neither/scotitonernor

[Dillenger/could recall

specific details about th

this MinusualSECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

-20-

015P-

I sedetner, said that

he did not know whether

the conversation of 9/21

vas reported before o

hit this ntien imm had

sinnected to wald

available had been

reported when the 9/27

~ wh

y known.

was to the toan embarry

9/28/63

I Bestetres acknowladge

that it would have been

very ensual den 240 to

at least o times and not have

beenspicked clay the phot

---

## Page 21

0153

SECRET

aperation

1 bestetner continually

seemphasiged thathHO's

visit + the report was

im that HQ did

soviet embassy alone is

When shown the

alously transcribed"

that.it.isteseuld.de

---

## Page 22

0154

pery unusual that

the 10/10 DIR

staff. members

SECRET

---

