# 180-10147-10176

## Page 1

180-10147-10176

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

The CIA let publy stated that it nur stewed Ile

stimulate

unli

Junet sundet Kennedy's aduation that slald water shed

wher n should were ter desefed by the CIA Upt ll Mthe

Jite te stret hak sure is appealed to the l a pArtics to

иннеих лины

provide usul reformatts due t. the ioget

HeSPEREA

duce and impersment tan. The cat's pet Its Ods SKIt.

Weed induate a der fun of seld its stimulited

speculettes

tet sawld may lave did stae ked of Agery relationdip.

we were the costet was not reprted though no inst

obviated(?)

Ike HSCA alterpted t setterse: 1) White Dwild we in fast, intrieved

by the CIA upon his settur lose it SOULt UNION; 2) Wette the is da

actuality/

in firty, the case

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10147-10/74

---

## Page 2

Le repose to the t'bira condone request of..

-Tole. I. Melore Ductor If the lestral Itillegese Agency, submitted

i affeduct stating that the ETA led had no slatelep

talked weth de on weed a solected asy repots or formation

fire lia, o commuriested with like, deetly or seducetly, in

1109-65-6-2

specialle

with lawald the sue Melon us asked pude t LIA ad had

My untet with bould suring wis stay in the suet Unesh:

else repled, "No; not to my knowleáge, nor to the croutiäge

of lise who would lave teen in a preton to cheve made suce

regatuely. t the filletin of wittic the LIA idd isy plane stat

with Usuald sue west to le tues to the bastia State. (Ibid.)

---

## Page 3

was

ir

or.

respommision

west

an attle in 23 tItey 1164 in the Dotter Hugenes Sun wech

made the flowing agaitsk:

settings with the CIA

suing this pened, the was its suking to lesource die itizenskip.

Dre State Apartment Calle, Ys 234, Asted MAnKU 2, 1959, reports that

Doweld was stilled ty the CIA red

14t=409-156)

The tA ine reade uptig this irit hot entirelly it

to the Hases london aduls tet this illegation is belly unfested

(lid red CIA FIA Grunent $610-263). He literas in place that th

referre to the State sepertment table is essonous and that is benes

I theel the artle was sepsing is wad Heltely a state Repeatret

I lurding t te niteral memorandus, the teptel stied to that

- 3

---

## Page 4

LIA FUT A RiC.

the dispatch, led any CIA CoMes /17li125:.

Nourre, the sunrendun actrowdyed that wolt Sayde and Edward

4. trees, the State sepetuest iffial its signed the despotel, dad.

led some past conction with the Agency. Snyder lad been unplayed

wy the tHA r less thee are yeer in 1950 when ce seseged is sidle

ItAL the CIAS

I destine e protes bith the state dinest trashd ano

ring were ye distry of yey tant is

Thers, it who neve itually inployed y the CIA. (thes.)

=4=

---

## Page 5

The read of the entrel Satelligence Agery broughout the years

is triestant with the pritis the stated to the Xues loanision

that the IT nur interrewed the taury Oswald A stablay

1972 lette fish Burned testewld t the listent Alects of

the ItA reques ery nerds pertaining t a deterg of Bed

Iy i te dekelf of the CIA follerag is stuck fith the Sout

Hath this sequent for pratin Irrary to the gencys purrely

Ricked Helme ta I4 Apil 1971 befre the Anewcan Sorty of Duerpaper

Lether tet If thee is a cese that if a pust utige travelling

sad has aqued frees i rinstin that I the usel to the

Aner preymate, we are staraly going to try to seenew

(COMFOIA ROL 5961-427-116)

i in penetiwald itte Oswald is plain to the sled A peter.

= The follows is schange of lettes steer Luxetweed ind

Angues M. Twerner Wks was tristant t the Quete of te CIA.

in which. Teeine rfus best wild to te testiny of the tre end.

---

## Page 6

this befle the been tons Hume stette that He best ne

-is is still red; tufre the uformatin you requent the not let COAt.

Ficer i When tideweld responds to this anner with a requend for

Turme's tox prstion with respect to the we satter thee cade

siles taved upon staterests of plieres ithe tas yourself" Huske

wads. the unclerge ty stating that is proud sapted like.

"I staple declarative stetiment in the dest prostle etirity thet

the ley sure tee say cortect with Oswald ad that, there,

-the information stight ly you in you lette of terry it does

la Aul Of 1973, the HSCA equested tet te TA pitude e state-

sent ke to Whither, te Hawry Oswald was we catated, spokes to.

The bury responded in the same inen it id tied in lepteding to....

is quest from otte stiles, i way of referg is lonette,

---

## Page 7

A 25 Noraber 1963 CIA Memorandu (a beated a 1H9'5

I homes Case state de 300k dad deed Wishes

name, a recalled that is Keep of the I see t ded deceased was

sonians

In syn 1960- with the ther thif and befety Wief of the d heed

Seein the lyig in of trews tunge eurit nette suiteble

checkeld. It the momed I dont Mcell of this wad duceed while

oswald and dis farely wer is soute to the coletry on of it Wis

-aftei ti anial! (CIA FUIA Locinent * 435-173-A).

ile this unture, she stated that ie worked te thef of the t Brasc

...Jrox Sptende 1960 Matil chis reassigninent in September A62, e.

5/11/13, pl

advised that the fusetre of the b bracel wed

---

## Page 8

The b Breach alas selled upon the It's Citacts bursion and

the FBI ls soles of this type of information, is well is collecting

irmation fore the State supaitreet and the press excerning

Arweess in the Street Union. (Ibid., pt)

suing this sture Cassin, wetletie of the ducess.

mestioned is the 25 Movender. 1963 sens was that it took place

(Ibid 4).

dung the cast days of the teale with the l Bul. This sold

have pled the discusson sometime in July A62. He stated that the

date uted for to descession in the meres sust have ies error

es la de wire teeting with the perily sies seanet

_I the summer 1960 and ded not legin his dudgenest with

..the 6 Sured Witil Septinte of thet yeur (Eid ip 4.5)

(Casasia stated that it the time the bswald are wes discied,.

we soned that Oswald nut have dren seet hit of the soret

(pil)

Unis ity the XB. perfre, Iseung caution, he did net attempt -

---

## Page 9

which repented the Office of perations, is office whech debreped.

persons through, its Intacts sursor or "ste sutable channels"

_y wheel de meast the FBI Or the bangation ind taturalyation

беннее Не маско

Ie did not bluve test this had beer doze it

Hat time incur bed type of i rinds will he is outerly

passed th to the A Nd to his section of HUl a schuping let

I the fres of sit separtet dispate. (bid.)

Ie the simorandum Casasis states that ile told his subrdinates

setting to the effect of Dit plash to dark to get the frostich

(JA FOIA Recureut =435-113-AJe

we reed, beese this indurdual lost Old file explaced in the

interes that the statement reflected the DIA'S hide net f...

sold. seed te the unlead yete that Dred war, persetted by

the soviets to remain in the HOSR ald was futher permitted to masey

visi

---

## Page 10

-----

lease tited that dis street in swald ie speed in the

menrands was just a wed sad that It was set unused that thee

(Ibid,p, 9)

Led seen as follow: up regarding a lebrefl of suld it rote

-as shems at to time of the desclose as it was not untomay to oute

news regarding beds that wee deserved and sullequetly eft.

unportente. (Ibid.)

10

---

## Page 11

Nice was wetter Was the employed if the IT A le Leef f

stie with to step tea tet delue of the rattle of

whate informed men suck ad the Sae in POIA 435-13:1 Wheel

wen the pressed on thrugh the lee if

These nemorands would thras is ourse is It Head quarters

guelly de Meied tos, is tie partier interce, tet ...

Minquel ate suved under retire

neurd in yoursided

the inenrandun to tadawarters

(Ibid.)

Haltya ispiced th feed Aguay spenth the ted the lIt

wriled I contact a stering telets, it athed ave die so thigh

=16=

---

## Page 12

..... the lontacts Sirson of te....

----•

He affic pratione but tet it was not standerd sperating

- jurisdiction. (Ibid.,p.2)

... ..-..---

---

## Page 13

1. lasasa//stated that the CIA lad e spfle witt in tink

set a tros thet the lty citrined stre tope of speed deadfs placts.

but may have invited arrative, auclear cregy or tactenologie

he isluved boat.

waking in sey type. If suey faulty payne, nould deve ther a.

the aver of these pleats would leve is of hatchet b t Agedy Aid, p i.

Horrors. wes wid the pulace of the dengs plaste, thel Whed

not dectfied an a secutty a multay putty ala. (bid. )...

upriation. was stred in the fice of leavel end leting the get.

Pose feelya at worked i tea little its burie

in to Soret March of the Quetrate of Sell fede I 1962.

-

---

## Page 14

kadas the summer A 1962, de wrence

e costet rept. for reputatives of the Is Dr Yok fuld

sffice this settled a funer tarse wto ad worked it the

with the farely in Yourse. (Ibid.

edy? a dused te linnetter that

*I composest if the effice if tental Refuse (S127, is. I

He HSCA requested that the CIA plouds the tornitte toth the attle -

Redo Blut. 15: 160 # 5:

I've Rides Put versil tet as sued criset reprt wisted is tet file.

---

## Page 15

The file wrew led inducte that is 1975, Dawel SchoW Und

made a semier request and Was nfused by the EIA that as such

repot ukusted. (Ibid;)

15

-14=

---

## Page 16

Ine The Seleet lometter in hardculations requeted that the latrel

letleguce Agency pride a wetter tatenest nducting wette.

tettes, fox 1958-1963, interrewed r desuefed eturnug Amewas

-deflous o the Soet Wos as a matta of tandard sustig

preduce Te lguy was also requested to indete the crer.

slaves unde wich ie steurew wreld te sitested of ses uti

wieux were not caducted as standeed peting, predu (Ibid)

The lgeney's lipone indested that the trentetelgec Steff

reved to fles of III passs wts had defected' to the ASSe

setwees 1958 and 1963 and wis had sibrequently utered a the latted

15A Mustandum B. Aus Tivar to Special Assistant to RfC für Estirnal Unersift, 4/20/T8).

States MA

trotter. nemorandum explaced thet the ILA And no starda.

quating predure eth spect to debrig iterig limercan difetrs.

---

## Page 17

6161

as the Ageney seid up in the FBI. for repotting the note of interine

it may her conducted in cornetion wid the Mirablety fr iteac

(CA MourNiND, Forar to Special Asst. to khar Eur Etiernal Diersiget

1, 5/25/18).

secury metter the Aery Justler, stated that the ore no needle i

regulations. a the price of 1958-196s whil splifically adduce the st

the CIA exployee the conducted the dred in prepentin for the

Адик's None told He ASCA that te requirests ce sad utelyed in l

worry it die conclusin ied tee sortet trade the shore requested.

i rau to welde ill he pete regarded is lefectors its ile settling

in the soret this durg te tore peed is slester, setter the just the iss

stually lifiltect it that time.

1/21/75)

---

## Page 18

The Home Seleet Committe on Assassations inducted to a a

vrew of defecthis filer n oder to determuse whetter defectors

otte as bsold were souterely dwed upon the retter to the.

_ United Staits Te lomatter requested that the CIA pittle a

sit of use telling te sort this swer te pit. from

158 6. Mas, eluding shot wettes in the person indeed ly

the Agesey to te "defetor"

EACH KAMALER

Yentre the have a May Have Defected to the USSR. Between 1956-1963

sated that this stig represented his, reludg some wor

- U.s. etyas its owed some seale of allegaice to the United States,

we See withe defected i stir sone it its of defecting so the

USSR por the requested time prod one gi life cate

As this let was copil't from a intre detried compute progress.

=1.

---

## Page 19

Tennison

"Brooks,

on lineucer defectors, a are detailed deception cheering tee

indeedeals was requested and prouded in an esparded veries of

te regised diet. this racice leting scuded the following a for-

satiss when uncles for us indurdeal: name, date and plece

If luth, 201 file sunde, arral is soret Wmos, departure.

I Joet Wet, unploymeat is somet Was, most whent addles,

and the miscelleneshes information compiled fron the indurduals

2l file and len tid yay domest get this adesles....

")

The Committee compiled a list of peose who appeared from

the refusation aslable in the Agesey's esperded beet, to he I.S.

stejece bork in the reted States, Wis defected on attenpted to defed

to the soweet Unith detures the years of 458 Ol 1963 Ald Who te

turned to the Wited states with is the see puis of time here

the loisiate wcluded

cada ta do we indurducle from as October 1960 Itete

малі піт

Sipsitset in chaste formates fire the TA regardengipents wros.

they concedeed to the defens to the somet was a sovet tre crusties.

---

## Page 20

The H SLA requested fles a toerty- are udur dude, whe fet the

about cited cutois and He CIA prosided fir i dety-eight nurduals

' when thy mustriet verds. It 0 files we wriwed worl

181.18

20

---

## Page 21

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

23

---

## Page 24

it appear, from es unanuation of all welde metenals,

that Ive Hawey Is oold wre at intureued by the CIA follering

dis setes to the United Stater for. the Stret Uner Altough

perild is a beal of the sorret Kul Also upplesed an.

tuet in interwing Isled, thy ser folours up in the citest.

There to thes is salestion that the swer

" of the affece

of spectors attwued Os waid.

Tive, the fact that Oswald was not tourewed

was: more the sule the the uxception scerding to plodes followed.

'y the LIH at that pockt in tile.

celizans.

progran.

probably

74÷5

---

