:

- — a
'180-10142-10015) {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ] /
T em /— lp.
1

|
t
{

|
ed
on oe
az
z
od

an nyt oS 7
wot

GO NOT REPRODUCE
RETURN TOCA...

180 - wi-Joo'S


Berk-Write-Ups

Purpose and Scope of Study

The Central Intelligence Agency's performance
in its role of support to the Warren Commission
has been a source of controversy since the
inception of the Warren Commission. Critics
have repeatedly. charged that the CIA participated
in a conspiracy designed to suppress information
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy,

During 1976 the critic's

assertions were the subject of official inquiry
by the Senate Select Committee to Study
Governmental Operations (hereinafter SSC). The
SSC, in its report regarding "The Investication
of the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy:
Performance of the Intelligence Agencies" reached
the following conclusion:

The Committee emphasizes that it has

not uncovered any evidence sufficient

to justify a conclusion that there was

a conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy.

The Committee has, however, developed
evidence which impeaches the process

000000


by which the intelligence agencies
arrived at their own conclusions
about the assassination, and by
which they provided information

to the Warren Commission. This
evidence indicates that the
investigation of the assassina-
tion was deficient and that facts
which might have substantially
affected the course of the inves-
tigation were not provided the
Warren Commission or those
individuals within the FBI
the CIA, as well as oth
of Governm
jarvestigating t ssassina-
tion/ ($$¢, Bees EF. pe)

This Sought to examine in
greater detail the general findings of the SSC.
The Committee has particularly focused its attention

ee on the specific issue of whether the CIA or any
employee or former employee of the CIA misinformed,
or withheld information relevant to the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy from the Warren
Commission. In addition, the Committee has
attempted to determine whether, if the Warren
Commission was misinformed or not made privy. to

\ information relevant to its investigation,

the misinforming or withholding of

evidence from the Warren Commission was the

160600


result of a conscious intent to do so by the
Agency or its employees.
The Committee has sought to examine the
issue detailed above in both an objective
and disciplined manner. In order to Miaua rae
C/A. Loo
this goal the Committee has utilized a 1977 Task Ferce
Report by_the_CIA's—tnspeetorGeneral (hereinafter
aS
77 EGR). . This Report was highly critical of
the SSC findings and asserted that the SSC
Final Report conveyed an impression of limited
effort by the CIA to assist the Warren Commission
an Agel
in its work. The 77 was in fundamental
disagreement with this characterization of the
ssc findings and noted that "CIA did seek and
collect information in support of _the-idcen
pea
Commission. Additionally, conducted studies
and-submitted-speeialla ses and reports."

ae
\(77 IGR, Introduction to Tab E}).

G demonstrate further the scope

of support Laces by. the CIA to the Warren

Commission, the 77 tor contained a comprehensive

listing of CIA generated material made available

000002


to both the U.S. Intelligence Community and
the Warren Commission regarding the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy. In this respect,
: : TES :
the Committee agrees with the 77 TGR wherein
it is stated that "This compiliation (of
CIA generated material) is appropriate to
consideration of the extent of the CIA ctor, pe
to the extent that it reveals something
TER .
77. EGR, Introduction

the results of that effort."
to Tab E) :

In examining the Agency's comprehensive
listing of CIA generated material referenced above,
the Committee has paralled its review to the

eR
structure given to these materials by the 77 £6R.
In this regard the 17 3ex details four inter-
related compilations of Kennedy assassination
material. These four compilations are:

1) Agency dissemination of information

to the Intelligence Community (Pormal
and Informal Disseminations)

2) Dissemination of material to the

Warren Commission

ons)
oS
i)
Lows)
wr]
aus


3) Agency dissemination to the FBI et al

regarding rumors and allegations

regarding President Kennedy's
assassination
4) Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
Warren Commission on Rumors
Allegations Relating to_the President's
Introduction

Assassinatiog (77 IGR,

to Tab E.)

In réViewing these compilations,

the Committee focused upon those

CIA materials which the 77 re documented as having

made available in written form to the Warren

Commission.
During the course of this study, additional

Agency files have been reviewed. These files have
been examined in an effort to resolve certain
issues created by the review of the Agency's
compilations discussed in this report. Where

\ apparent gaps existed in the written record,
files have been requested and reviewed in an effort

to resolve these gaps. Where significant substantive

g000u4


issues have arisen related to the kind and

quality of information provided the Warren

Commission, files have also been requested and
reviewed in an effort to resolve these issues.

As a result, approximately thirty files, comprising
an approximate total of ninety volumes of

material have been examined and analyzed

in preparation of this report.

The findings set forth herein are subject
to modification due to the following considera-
tions. During the course of the past fifteen
years, the CIA has generated massive amounts of
information related to the assassination of
President Kennedy. In-spite-of“thé-Agency's
sophistivated-document-retrievat~system, Gertain
documents requested by this Committee for study
and analysis have not been located. Whether these
documents merely have been filed incorrectly or

destroyed, gaps in the written record still do

exist. 008605
Secondly, due to dissimilar standards of investigative
* Ea f GIA SiKassas. matenals pavided the Rockefeller

Commission, CLA materials Pertaining re LUisa.C ald erenGarmller,
Maria Te rea Prenn , AMMUS-1 (CubanTatclligerce Secvice Defecter))
ARASH, CIA Soet lit pertaining te Lec Harve, Oswald CHA materials
Senerate by Wallen Commi 9s M9 btca regia Agency SAS (Flcatlon

nt

t


relevancy adopted by the CIA and this Committee,

certain files requested by the Committee for

review
have been made available to

7 K
the Committee in a sanitized fashion. Therefore,

to the degree reflected by the Agency's denial
of access and/or santization of certain materials,

this study's conclusions are based upon the

best evidence available to the Committee thZough
this may not be all relevant evidence to which
the Agency has access.

One must, ‘moreover, give due consideration
to the role that oral discussions, oral briefings,
and meetings of Warren Commission and CIA
representatives may have played in the supply of
assassination-related information by the CIA to
the Warren Commission. The subject and substance
of these discussions; briefings, and meetings
may not always be reflected by the written
record made the _ subject of this. study.
Therefore, the Committee has conducted interviews,

depositions and executive session hearings with ee
ab2b06

hee
A CIA Giles pertaining to MMMVS |, Mac ia Te ras. Foenaa,
ana jn aan parson Sate Nothings Were made
. available te this Commrttee Subtect +o Agency
Saatti zak on of He mw cial ne



( 5ST £2 5 £8 L 8 £2 Li La

Classification: igh

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
-8-

key Warren Commission staff and members and

former or present CIA representatives in an

effort to resolve questions that are not

addressed by the written record. The results
p of the Committee's efforts to chronicle this
aspect of the working relationship between the
é Warren Commission and the CIA will be a subject
for discussion herein.
In addition, this report will examine the
g following subjects generated by the Committee's
study as outlined above, in the following general
order of discussion:
1) the . organization of the CIA's investigation
of President Kennedy's assassination;
2) the working relationship of the Warren
Commission staff and those CIA representatives

concerned with the Warren Commission inquiry;

which the Warren Commission staff believed
to govern the quality and quantity of
information supplied by the CIA to the

Warren Commission;

G00G0%

Classification: oye
C. Berk Berk

| Classified by derivation:

é 3) the standards of investigative cooperation
\

SeTTToTe we 7


6
6
.
4
4

LD £9 £2 £2 £2 £2 £3 Sm a

4)

5)

Ir. ~ Select Commute Shady ot

Classification: Sele

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

~8a-

the CIA's concern for protection of its
sensitive sources and methods and the
consequent effects of this concern

upon the Warren Commission investigation;
and

the substance and quality of information
concerning Luisa Calderon passed to the
Warren Commission and the results of this
Committee's investigation of Calderon
and her significance to the events of

November 22, 1963.

Information Made Available by CIA to Warren

Commission

4 £7 £7 LF 47

see cif Pog 2oeo0s'7 inten
Sse begin AIG of +his section

g00bUG
Classification: hee

| Classified by derivation, C+ Berk

—_ GA TH UB RB BW DBD DA RZ BD

I I MT LF


49 £9 LF 89 I £9 L9 £7 7

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

To be inserted price + Sectfon IT

TL. Organization of CIA Investigation

of President Kennedy's Assassination

In his Executive Session testimony before the Select
Committee, Richard Helms, the CIA's Deputy Director for
Plans during 1963, described the CIA's role in the
investigation of President Kennedy's assassination as

follows:

This crime was committed on United
States soil. Therefore, as far as the
Federal government was concerned, the pri-
mary investigating agency would have been
the Federal Bureau of Investigation without
any question. The role of the CIA would
have been entirely-supportive in the sense
of what material we are (sic) able to
acquire outside the limits of the United
States with reference to the investigation.

... For investigative purposes, the Agency

g006u5
Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

ma RS A BB BBB TR ZA BD A

1


4 £9 £9 9 £9 2 LF 4 2 *

eae
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

had no investigative role inside the United

States at all. So when I used here the
word "supportive," I meant that in the
literal sense of the term. We are (sic)
trying to support the FBI and support the
Warren Commission and be responsive to
their requests, but we were not initiating
any investigations of our own or, to my
recollection, were we ever asked to.

(Executive Session Testimony of Richard

level CIA officials to outline the Agency's investiga-
tive responsibility vis a vis the assassination. (SSC,

J Book V, p. 25.) At that time, Helms placed John Scelso,
Branch Chief for CIA operations in Mexico, Central
America, and Panama, in enaeae of the Agency's initial

\ investigative efforts. (HSCA Class. Deposition of John

Scelso, 5/16/78, pp. 111-112, Exec. Session Testimony

i]
Classification:

A BREA WA QW SB Aie DT ETA SB BZ

| Classified by derivation: ____

Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 17-18.)
On November 23, 1963 Helms called a meeting of senior-

See Tee ew .


f
$
é
6
y
é
j
6
p.
é
f

LY £27 £m £2 £2 9 2 £97 7

}

\

ere
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 10.)

Scelso testified before the Select Committee,
that he was given charge of the Agency's investigation
on the basis of two considerations: 1)!his prior
experience in conducting major CIA security investi-

UE pppoe ted Ye
gations and 2) the observance of Oswald by CIA
surveitiance-in-Mexié6, (Scelso's operational concern)
less than two months prior to the assassination. (SSC
Book V, p. 25, HSCA Class. Deposition of John Scelso,
5/16/70, pp. 111-112.'; Scelso also noted that
during the course of his investigative efforts, Helms
did not pressure him to adopt specific investigative
theories nor reach conclusions within a set period of

: HS¢A Class, De chor Of Sel Ses! ser,
time; \pxeeutive-Session—Testimony—of—Richard..Hélms--,-

Sfie) 2%, pill.
“8/9/487~ppx-9-10) *

* Raymond Rocca, Chief of Research and Analysis for
CIA's Counterintelligence Staff characterized Scelso's
responsibility not as a mandate to investigate but
rather to “coordinate traffic (code facilitation,
telegram or telegraphic consideration) for working
with the DDP with respect to what was being done over

. the whole world..." (HSCA Classified Deposition of

\ R. Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 9.)

{ Rocca referred to this phase of CIA activity as

\ the GPFLOOR phase. (Ibid,)

Classification: 60061:

| Classified by derivation; ____

WA “QA G SS US THR SE MR SS HB HF =F


p
p
§
p
p
4
p
6
g
a
6
f

LEP £9 LE 2 £9 3) 2 £97 427 ~*~

-4
Classification:

OTION TO
IAHASN Ree moO

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Scelso described in detail to the Committee the
manner in which he conducted the Agency's investiga—
tion:

+++practically my whole Branch participated

in the thing. We dropped almost everything

else and I put a lot of my officers to work

in tracing names, analyzing files.

We were flooded with cable traffic, with

reports, suggestions, allegations'from all

over the world, and these things had to be

checked out. We were checking out just dozens

and dozens of people all the time. (HSCA Classified
{ Deposition of John Scelso, 5/16/70, p. 131)*

ad During the course of the Agency's invetigation, Liaison
with the FBI was handled for the CIA by Birch-0+Neal.

{ (Ibid. p. 80.) At the time of the assassination Mr>—O"Neal,
a former FBI agent, was Chief of the Special Investigations
Group of the CIA's Counterintelligence Staff. (HSCA Classified
Deposition of Birch-O1Neal; 6/20/78, p. 7 .) Me+-0tNeal
characterized his functions with respect to the Agency
as follows:

(This footnote -- Footnote. *. -- continues
on bottom of page 5)

Classification: GD9

ee ee ee a a ee a

3 | Classified by derivation:

THT Te ew.



4 £9 A LT 9 £29 £9 9 i *

oa
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Scelso stated during his testimony that CIA
field stations worldwide were alerted to the Agency's
investigation "and the key stations were receiving
tips on the case, most of which were phony. We did not
send out instructions saying everybody participate in

J the investigation." (Ibid.,p. 133.) It was his
recollection, however, that throughout his tenure as
coordinator of the Agency's investigation, the-Mexico

City-Statien was the only CIA field station directly

Footnote * -- continued from bottom of page 4.

I knew that we (at CIA) did not have the
basic responsibility for investigating the
assassination of the President. If there was
a crime commited in the course of this activity,
4sic) it belonged to the FBI. I recognized that
it was our responsibility to give the fullest
cooperation to the FBI to protect the Agency
with regard to any aspects of our operations,
you understand, and at the same time giving them
cooperation, and I was in close contact with Mr.
Sam Papich (of the FBI), and always fully co-
operated, and he always fully cooperated with me.

vw (Tbid.,)p. 52.)

@*Neal noted that his office (CI/SIG) at the direction of
the Chief of Counterintelligence, James Angleton, was
designated the central point for collection of assassination-

Vv related information made available to the FBI. (Ibid., pp. 52-53.

Classification: => g00Gi2

eee

Ww

iN | Classified by derivation; —___

See TTe eee.



p
6
é.
4
4

4 9 £9 L9 £9 i Li 7

FA

j

Vv

&

- 6
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

involved in investigatory activities related to President
Kennedy's assassination. (pia)

During the latter half of December, Scelso
issued a summary report which described Oswald's
activities in Mexico City from September 26, 1963 -
October 3, 1963. Scelso characterized the summary report
as incomplete by comparison to assassination-related
information then available to the FBI but not provided
to CIA until late Dec. 1963. (Ibid.,pA 114-115.) (CIA
Document Report by John Scelso to C/CI, 24 Dec. 63.)*

Following issuance of this report, Helms shifted
responsibility for the CIA's investigation of President
Kennedy's assassination to the Counterintelligence

Staff. (HSCA Classified Deposition of John Scelso,

5/16/78, p. 136, C£. HSCA Classified Deposition of
Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 15 wherein Rocca states that
responsibility shifted from Scelso to CI Staff on

January 12, 1964.) Helms testified that this shift in

* Approximately two days after President Kennedy's
assassination, Scelso prepared a summary report,
aber n -9,.President Johnson by Helms. This report
dopted -Checpccition that Oswald probably was a lone
assassin who had no visible ties to Soviet or Cuban
intelligence though such ties carr not be excluded wl,

from consideration. | (#bid. p. -)
Classification:'2°* Rind Bera. of Tone Sez bH QOL 4

| Classified by derivation:

a DHMH DBR TW DB Base EBA Fa

ye ee ee ee


i

o
4
p
4
g

aw ee ee a

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

responsibility was a logical development because the
investigation had begun to take on broader tones.
_ (Executive Session Testimony of Richard Helms, 8/9/78,
p- 14, see also HSCA Classified Deposition of John
Scelso, 5/16/78, p. 138.)

Helms' reasoning was expanded upon by Raymond
Rocca who testified before the Committee that the
shift in responsibility described by Helms was caused

in part by the establishment of the Warren corre
78%

VY (HSCA Classified Deposition of Raymond Rocca Y pp. 12-13.)
Rocca added:

It was entirely appropriate in the

GPFLOOR phase that he (Scelso) would

have that (responsibility for the Agency

investigation.) But the minute you had

a commission set up outside the line

obviously had to be the Director, and from

the Director to his Chief of Operations

overseas, because the spread involved

then all of the divisions. Here you had

Mr. (Scelso) being’asked to sign off on

cables that had to do with the Nethertands,

with-hk7, with Austratra, and it would

have seemed to me utterly administratively

simply a hybrid monster. (HSCA Classified
VV Deposition of R. Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 12.)

James Angleton supported Rocca's belief that "the

spread (of investigative responsibility) involved...

Classification: 0006015

| Classified by derivation:

I ee ee ee ee

4

Foe


SF LF LF £9 £3 2 2 7 i *
Classification: . i

(This form is to be used for material extracted ;
from ClA—controlled documents.) CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

= TA

: all of the (CIA) divisions." angleton testifed
to this Committee that the Agency's efforts to
gather and coordinate information related to
the assassination underwent a metamorphic
transition. Initially, Angleton noted, the
Director, Deputy Director, Division Chiefs and
Case Officers approached Warren Commission.
requirements in a piecemeal fashion. However,

Angleton testified the Agency was eventually

of effort and provide a system for the central
referencing of assassination related information
as such information was developed. (HSCA

Classified Deposition of James Angleton,

10/5/78, pp. 76-77, See also HSCA Classified

7
Deposition of Raymond Rocca, \W/17/78,

p- 23.)

Classification: 000616

RE SB PB SVD Ba BV AZ

20.08

t2

'
: | Classified by derivation:

g able to focus its resources to avoid duplication
6 :
%

LT LF 9 FF 4


SE £9 LS 2 LT £8 2 ff fF ~«
Classification: :

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

The record reveals that during this second phase
of CIA information collection efforts in support of
the Warren Commisssion investigation the concentration
of Agency resources shifted in emphasis from exploration °
of Oswald's activities in Mexico City to his residency
in the Soviet Union during 1959-1962 and possible
association with the Soviet intelligence apparatus. * ep ie#)
(Ibid., pp.32-33,44,Executive Session of Testimony of
Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 23.) Accordingly Rocca commented

that during this phase primary interest in support of the

on the assumption that a person who spends

four years**in the Soviet Union, under his
circumstances, had to be of specific interest
to Soviet State security and their collateral

authorities. (HSCA Classified Deposition of

32-33.) (seep 1¢ Sor **)

Raymond Rocca, pp-
Therefore, Rocca concluded, the areas the CIA tended

to concentrate on _concerned the Soviets:

aN

OL y sesatton er earrertaas

Va CA DH SS BH Sse EH a Se SV CA

Classification: =. = 000617 ]

| Classified by derivation:

i Warren Commission was to follow-up on Soviet leads:

ye ee ee


SE £8 LES 2 9 229 £2 i 7
Classification: a

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

*The following exchange between Mr. Rocca and Committee
Counsel sheds further light on the difficulties encountered
by the Agency related to its investigation of possible
Cuban involvement in the assassination:

Mr. Goldsmith. Earlier, when I asked you which
areas of the case received emphasis, I believe that you
indicated that on balance the primary area of emphasis
was the Soviet connection.

Mr. Rocca. That was certainly the one that I would
say dominated -- looking at it from my point of view.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, had you known about the anti-
Castro assassination plots on the part of the CIA, would

ae you have given more priority, more emphasis, to the
. possibility of a Castro conspiracy to kill the President?

Mr. Rocca. Again, I say that it would have
simply intensified it, that there was attention given
to it, not particularly by the staff. I had no capabilities
on the Cuban side.

The organization of their service and their
operation in Mexico was something entirely entirely (sic)
within -- it was an enigma at the time. They were just
getting started. This was Wits area. This was Win
Seett’s area of proficiency. So the defectors had only
begun to come out and they came out later, the Cuban
defectors.

ae
g So, I can't -- I really can't say that (a) the
Cuban connection was ignored, because it wasn't. The
g press was filled with it at the time.
The Harker interview should have been undoubtedly
given greater attention in a generalized sense; but it
g was given specific attention, I was told at the time of
\
6

the Rockefeller thing.

Mr. Goldsmith. In what way was the Cuban connection
investigated?

Mr. Rocca. I don't know. I don't know this.
That side of the report strikes me as being inadequate.

Classification: 0o0gi8

on,
ere

| Classified by derivation: ____

Ra GR DH GS TR HS HEH SE DB EEA EH TS!

'

iN


4 £9 2 L9 LS F 2 9 2 ~«
Classification: a

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Mr. Goldsmith. Well, when I said to what extent
was the Cuban connection investigated, I don't mean by
the Warren Commission. I mean to what extent did the
Agency provide --

Mr. Rocca. That I can't answer. I certainly
didn't do it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Pardon me?
Mr. Rocca. We certainly didn't, in R&A.
Mr. Goldsmith. So, CI/R & A did not --
Mr. Rocca. Go into the Cuban side of it at all.
This was something left to the people who were concerned
specifically with Cuban intelligence and security operation.
Mr. Goldsmith. But I believe earlier we
established that Mr. Helms gave orders that information

pertinent to the assassination was to go through your
office, correct?

Mr. Rocca. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. And once information pertinent
to the assassination went through your office, I take (it)
you or Mr. Helms would decide what information would
be relevant for the Warren Commission to see.

Is that correct?

Mr. Rocca. Well --

Mr. Goldsmith. Based upon what you knew?

Mr. Goldsmith. Therefore, you were in the
position, it would seem, to know what information was
being generated in the field that was going to the
Warren Commission.

Earlier I asked you which area received emphasis
and I believe you indicated that the Soviet area (did).

Classification: poebis

| Classified by derivation:

aA MM SB Sai BOW. BSB AA OA

nw

6 Mr. Rocca. Well, everything would go, yes.
\

TO MMMM AaAaaa


SP £9 9 9 2 2 2D 4
Classification: oo

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Mr. Rocca. Primarily, primarily. But I didn't
mean by that that it excluded the Cuban, because there
was a lot of material that came through and went to the
Commission that. concerned the Cubans.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let's go off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Goldsmith. Let's continue.

Mr. Rocca. My recollection is that at the time
the great press manifestation was that Cuban exiles who
were in touch with CIA had been somehow involved in this.

This was the great concern.

Mr. Goldsmith. That's another possibility.
There are different --

Mr. Rocca. Questions went down to WH: do you
have anybody who could possibly have gotten involved in
this kind of thing. :

a aA AQ SB BW

There was extraordinary diligence, I thought,

ee exercised to try to clarify that side.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you think that the possibility
of an assassination plot by Castro against the President
was adequately investigated?

(Pause)
Mr. Rocca. With the advantages of 20-20 hind-
sight, I could say probably not. But at the time it seems

to me that they gave due attention to it -- within the
information that I had at my disposal.

“e*In fact, LHO spent 2 years, 8 months in the Soviet Union
October 1959 - June 1962

Classification: 90g0z25

W344 |

ia 3

yy _ |

Classified by derivation: ____

a BWM MAB BAW BSB. BA A =»


WR BB ESB AB

r AA A BA BW

y

yf

LY 9 9 LT L927 £2
pas
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

because the people he was in touch with in

Mexico had traces, prior traces, as KGB

people. They were under consular

cover and obviously could have been

doing and were undoubtedly doing a

consular job in those earlier contacts. a

(Ibid., p. °33)

However, Rocca did indicate that. Cuban aspects
of the CIA investigation were not ignored "because
there was a lot of material that came through and
went to the Commission that concerned the Cubans."

V (Ibid., p. 44)
Mr. Helms also testified that the possibility

of Cuban involvement in President Kennedy's

assassination was a source of deep concern within the

Vv

Agency. (Exec. Session Testimony of R. Helms, 8/9/78, p- 21)
Nevertheless, Mr. Helms stated that development of informa-
tion pertaining to Cuban knowledge of or participation
in the assassination was very difficult to obtain.
(Ibid., p. 138)
Angleton was in agreement with Rocca's analysis
that during the second phase of the Agency's support
role to the Warren Commission the CIA concentrated its

resources On exp ing, possible Soviet influence on God
‘Classification: 00062:

! i | Classified by derivation:

p
p
f
f
f
p
}
j
f
f
f
p


4 £9 9 Li L 2 iy ~

eae eerie Oct
Classification: ..

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Oswald. Y (Angleton, p. 86) He stated for the record
with regard to the Warren Commission's investigation
(with the CIA's support) of possible Cuban involvement
in the assassination:

I personally believe that the United

States intelligence services did not

have the capabilities to ever come to

an adjudication (of the Cuban aspect) .

I don't think the capabilities were there.

(HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton,

: 10/8/1784. p- 93)

|
“! é
,

f

000622
Classification:

| Classified by derivation: ____

ToT TTeT ewes.



EF LS LY LY SY My ~

op eer tier 8
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CiA—controlled documents.)

As noted above, the CI Staff assumed responsibility
in late December 1963 - early January 1964 for the
coordination of CIA efforts to assist the Warren
Commission in its investigation. At that time, Raymond
Rocca, Chief of Research and Analysis for CI Staff,
was designated point of contact with the Warren
Commission. (HSCA classified Deposition-of James

“angleton; 10/5/78, p. 77.) Rocca's Research and

Analysis component was concerned with:

A BA BP SB BW

“analytical intelligence, analytical

' prainpower, which meant all source, all

overt source comprehension; a study of

it cases that had ceased to occupy opera-

Dee tional significance, that is, closed cases,
to maintain the ongoing record of overall
quality and quantity of counterintelligence
being performed by the entire DDP operational
component;... the Deputy Director for Plan,
(HSCA Classified Deposition of R. Rocca,

va 7? B/1T/7 See also HSCA Classified Deposition
ve _ “9£-James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 77.)

Mr. Rocca testified that assassination-related

information generated by CIA components was directed

Warren Commission) in the normal flow of day to day

0008

Classification:

aaa

| Classified by derivation: ______

6 t to his staff (as designated point of contact with the


A BM BB GG BA

4
6
‘a
6
g

\

n

fe: eaen
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

user Cinssi€iscl Gepesitiy ob Bay Roses, 2/1 2/re,
work (Ibid., pp. 16-17.) This information was then

reviewed by Rocca or his assistants who included
Thomas Hall, (Soviet Expert), Paul Hartman (general
research and search man for the U.S. Intelligence
Community and its resources), and Arthur Dooley (who
had transferred to the CIA from the FBI a number of:

years prior to the assassination) (Ibid. p- 17.)

During the course of the Warren Commission investi-
gation,Hall, Hartman and Dooley worked with those
CIA divisions producing substantive information
related to the assassination. (Ibid.) Vv

Mr. Rocca testified that even though
CI/R&A was the Agency's point of reference with regard
to the Warren Commission, neither his staff nor the
CI staff in general displaced the direct relations of

Mr. Helms or any other cancerned Agency official with

/ the Warren Commission. (Ibid.; Rocca testified that neither

CI Staff nor his staff displaced the CIA's Soviet

Division (represented by David Murphy, Chief of the

000624

Classification:

| Classified by derivation: _____

a a TL aT a a a

pe


49 £9 S29 SF 2 a ~
Oo ft i

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

SR division and his assistant, Tennant Bagley) in

its contact with the Commission; nor did CI/R&A

displace John Scelso in his contact with the Warren

Commission.) Rocca testified that in some instances

J. Lee Rankin of the Warren Commission would go directly

to Helms with requests, and in other instances David

Slawson, a Commission Staff counsel, conferred directly
1” with Tom Hall of Rocca's staff. (Ibid. ,p. 36.)*

The record reveals that on certain issues of

particular sensitivity Rocca was not permitted to act

Bm BB BA A BW BW

aS the Agency's point of contact with the Warren Commission.
He testified that “compartmentalization was observed,
notwithstanding the fact that I was the working level

point of contact." (HscA Classified Deposition of Raymond

* Although James Angleton functioned as Rocca's direct
superior during the course of the Warren Commission
investigation, he did not participate on.a regular
basis in the Agency's efforts to supply substantive

‘information to the Warren Commission nor did he deal
on a direct basis with Warren Commission representa-
tives. (excepting Allen Dulles on an unofficial basis;
HSCA Classified Deposition of Raymond Rocca,!-8/17/78,
} Vp. 17-18; HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton,
10/5/78, p. 78.) However, Angleton testified to this
Committee that he did attempt to keep apprised of
developments as the investigation progressed through
consultation with Rocca. (HSCA Classified Deposition of
Vv James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 81)

”a A B

Ob8GL
Classification:

peo

sy

| Clossified by derivation; _____

Tae aT aI ae we ew.

1

"a A


: IF LF ST LF £9 LY 9 SY MF ~<

ae
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

2
V Rocca, 8/17/78, p. 18) Rocca cited by way of example

the case of the Soviet defector Nosenko. Rocca
testified that he did not attend any of the Agency
discussions pertaining to Nosenko's case (Ibid.) “
Rather, (as it affected the Warren Commission investi-
gation) responsibility for the Nosenko case was
assigned to David Murphy, Chief of SR Division, in

addition to Richard neins.(Ebid) a

CA BA A BE DB GD

HTLINGUAL, as a second example of an Agency matter
about which he had no knowledge nor input vis a vis
ee the Agency's support role to the Warren Commission.
wa (Ibid., pp. 19-20.) Rather, James Angleton and Birch
O'Neal handled the disposition of this particular
material (HSCA Classified Deposition of J. Scelso,
5/16/78, p. 113, wherein Scelso states that’ CI Staff

including O'Neal, was. repository of HTLINGUAL interceptsiy
lout see WSCA Class Dep. of Birk Dine G/20/78 , [Areorens
whertin Olneat stokes +hat he didnot Knew
ny \/ Warren Comm i s$ ion Migaeos ane ed tee HTLINGOAL ve
Mj (aye because ee vas roth Cee resin fy alt jaa
Warten Commi shion with. mokerials de’
We RT AINGUALK pregam

fon

28
Classification: 00962

Rocca described the CI staff mail intercept program, 6

u | Classified by derivation:


4 £9 9 9 £2 £9 EF 2 tw ~*
Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

In summary, it was Rocca's testimony that an internally
decentralized information reporting function best
characterized the organization of this second phase
of the Agency's investigative Siac to assist

heey
1’ the Warren Commission. (Ebid.

Deposition of James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 75, 80.

See also CIA Doc. Rocca Memo for Record, 1 April 1975,
Subject: Conversation with David W. Belin, April 1,
1978, wherein it is stated that Helms remained senior

official in charge of the overall investigation,

of information collected.)

Classification:
:
|

A Mh BB BSB BBW BG FB

or

Classified by derivation: _____

6 with CI staff acting as a coordinator and repository

See Tae Te ew .


S CG I I £2 9 2 7 FF ~
Classification: __5 4

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

-9-

A, Opinions of Warren Commission and CIA Representatives

Regarding Warren Commission-CIA Relationship

The Committee has contacted both representatives of

the Warren Commission staff and those representatives of
g the CIA who played significant roles in providing CIA-
generated information to the Warren Commission.. The
6 general consensus of these representatives is that the
Warren Commission and the CIA enjoyed a successful
6 working relationship during the course of the Commission's
investigation. (HSCA Class. Depo. of R. Rocca 7/17/78,
p. 18) (See also Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard Helms,
ee 8/9/78, p. 24.) William Coleman,'a senior staff counsel
for the Warren Commission who worked closely with Warren
Commission staff counsel W. David Slawson on matters
which utilized the CIA's resources, characterized
the CIA representatives with whom he dealt as

highly competent, cooperative, and intelligent.

hae 8/2/78.) Mr. Slawson expressed a similar opinion

regarding the Agency's cooperation and quality

909623

mm A BR MM SB BBD A ZA E__

Classification: __S26“et

rAd
OOS | Classified by derivation: C+ Berk

6 : (See HSCA staff interview of William Coleman,


A BA AW’ a BW

LE LY I L9 LD 9 9 2 FF ~*~

Classification: ge it

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-10-

of work. «(Executive Session Testimony of W.
David Slawson, 11/15/77, p- 17;,see also JFK >
Exhibit 23.)

g. Lee Rankin, General Counsel for the

Warren Commission, testified that the Warren

that the Agency would cooperate in the Commission's
work. (HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin,

8/7/78, p.4; HSCA Class. Depo. of John McCone,
8/17/78, p- 9)

John McCone, Director of Central Intelligence
at the time of President Kennedy's assassination
and during the Warren Commission investigation,
supported Mr. Rankin's testimony in this regard
by characterizing the CIA's work vis-a-vis
the Warren Commission as both responsive and
comprehensive. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John

/McCone, 8/17/78, p- 5) Mr. McCone was responsible

for ensuring that all relevant matters were

990828

Classification: et

Commission and its staff were assured by the CIA ¢

c. Berk

| Classified by derivation:



?

4 S89 £9 SF £9 2 9 £9 LF

Classification: oe

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-10a-

conveyed by the CIA to the Warren Commission.

(Ibid., pp. 5-6) In this regard, Mr. McCone

testified that:

The policy
Commission
personally
come to my

of the CIA was to give the Warren
everything that we had. I

asked Chief Justice Warren to
office and took him down to the

vault of our building where our information is
microfilmed and stored and showed him the

procedures

that we were following and the

extent to which we were giving him -- giving
his staff everything that we had, and I think
he was quite satisfied. (Ibid., p. 9)

eve, as will subscquentiy be is eRe pens, Pee Policy Pa not to

give the tesee brenigt enn

aareh all matnelst tne cf 2a deine Hee

eve, Feige, Dae t

Materials Be Made Promptly Available By

CIA To

Mr. Raymond Rocca,

the Warren Commission

plisg canting eespent fe

Warren Commission

investigation,

characterized the Ageficy's role as one of

full support to the Warren Commission. Mr.

Rocca, who served as the Chief of the Research and

| Classified by derivation:

Pye. 3; BEN BAS aes fe sSachentormon inti
Ti BALENE oP" That Nhe evant

The warkingleed impiementer of ciA

008620

_¢. Berk

NX

7

laa ll Ca re ale


Sf LF LF £9 LF 9 £9 LY

Classification: sof

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-10b-

Analysis Divison for the Counter-Intelligence
Staff of the CIA, stated under oath that
Richard Helms had given the following

directive:

All material bearing in any way that
could be of assistance to the

Warren Commission should be seen by CIA
staff and R and A and marked for us. He
issued very, very strictly worded
indications -- they were verbal in so

far as I know -- that we were to leave no
stone unturned.

\(HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca,

ee ‘7/17/78, p. 24)

QOOG3!

Classification: __s

| Classified by derivation: + BEEK

LF I LI I LF LF I

A MB SB ChB BED BD WB Be FA




Mr.” Rocca added that, to his knowledge, Mr. Helms'
orders were followed to the letter by all CIA employees.

o (L

2 ) .Mr. Rocca concluded that on this basis:

“the CIA was to turn over and to develop any information
bearing on the assassination that could be of assistance
a to the Warren Commission." (Ibid., p. 26.)

A different view of the CIA's role regarding the
supply of CIA's information to the Warrén Commission was
propounded by Richard Helms. Mr. Helms, who served as
the CIA's Deputy Director for Plans during the Warren
Commission investigation,was directly responsible for the
CIA's investigation of President. Kennedy's assassination And the

as teblighmerk of CIA policy vida vig tha Warren Commissions
w (Ibid., p. 23.) he testified to the Committee that the

CIA made every effort to be as responsive as possible to

-Warren Commission requests. (Exec. Sess. Text. of Richard
Helms, 8/9/78, p- 10.) Mr. Helms added further testimony
regarding the manner in which the CIA provided its infor-
mation to the Warren Commission. He stated:°
An inquiry would come over (from the Warren Com-

mission). We would attempt to respond to it.

But these inquiries came in individual bits and
pieces or as individual items...Each individual
item that came along we took care of as best we
could. (Ibid., pp. 10-11.)

However, it was Mr. Helms' recollection that the CIA

provided information to the Warren Commission primarily

onebs?


on the basis of the Commission's specific requests. Under
oath he supported this proposition:

Mr. Goldsmith: In summary, is it your position that
the Agency gave the Warren Commission
information only in response to speci-
fic requests by the Warren Commission?

Mr. Helms: That is correct.

I want to modify that by saying that
memory is fallable. There may have been
times or circumstances under which some-
thing different might have occured, but
my recollection is that we were attempting
to be-responsive and supportive to the
FBI and the Warren Commission. When
they asked for something we gave it to
them. .

As far as our volunteering information
is concerned, I have no recollection of
whether we volunteered it or not.

(Ibid,, p- 34.)

Mr. Helms' characterization of fulfilling Warren
Commission requests on a case&basis rather than uniformly
volunteering relevant information to the Warren commission
stands in direct opposition to J. Lee Rankin's perception
of the CIA's investigative responsibility. Mr. Rankin was
asked by Committee Counsel whether he worked under the
impression that the Agency's responsibility was simply to
respond to questions that were addressed to CIA by the
Warren Commission. In response, Mr. Rankin testified as
follows: :

Not at all and if anybody had told me that I
would have insisted that the Commission com-

municate with the President and get a different
arrangement because we might not ask the right

00083


y
6
p
6
§

4 SF 9 £9  L2 I 9

Classification: Se

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ae

questions and then we would not have the
_ information and that would be absurd.
\ (HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin,

8/17/78, p. 4)

Mr. Slawson added support to Rankin's position
testifying that Warren Commission requests to the CIA
were rarely specific. "The request was made initially

that they give us all information pertinent to the

assassination investigation." (Exec. Sess. Test. of

“W. David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 29)

B cIaA's Failuce 4o Biscless Cif anti-
Crrrro. Assass! nautica Pisns. te Daclen _
Co mmission a eet
An unfortunate consequence’ of darren Commi srie-n reli ance 09
The CIR +o peude ry Commission eth Gi rele anh

CIA material jooretic tok fin

the subsequent exposure of the CIA's anti-Castro
assassination plots 7 (ssc Book V) see also(Alleged
Assassination Plots TaAvolving Foreign Leaders, Interim
Report, SSC, 11/20/75)7. Paradoxically, even if the
Warren Commission had requested information on such
plots, the CIA's point of contact with the Warren

Commission would not have been able to provide the

000034

Cc. Berk

| Classified by derivation: _~* "=" *

San

a LF LF LF 4 4 LF 7 |.


49 £9 9 £9 £29 9 £2 LF 7 *

Classification: oo

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-13a-

Commission with information so requested. ‘As

Mr. Rocca's testimony reveals, he had no

knowledge at the time of the Warren Commission

investigation of Agency efforts to assassinate
; Fidel Castro. (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond

Rocca, 7/17/78, p- 50)

gOS!
Classification:

aA A MH MBM MB MBM BSB Ai Ae DB ZX

| Classified by derivation: C+ Berk



aki ig ‘ ° +a
einen tit i eommankankul Yosaid Rant Rad ch taintermatiad Erids 284)

pene ec

Had Rocca,as the CIA's working level representative
to the Warren Commission,been requested by’ the
Commission to research and report on any and all
CIA anti-Castro assassination operations, Rocca's
a Kis Berks ng (coe

efforts*would have produced no substantive informa-
tion. (Ibid., p. 497™

The record also “é¥2aiz that the CIA desk
officer who was initially given the responsibility
by Mr. Helms to investigate Lee Harvey

Oswald, and the assassination of President Kennedy

had no knowledge of such plots during his investi-

gation. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78,

12 -14d
Vv pp. 73,4li=132) Mr. Scelso testified that had he

known of such assassination plots the following
action would have been taken:

"we would have gone at that hot and heavy.
We would have queried the agent (AMLASH)
about it in great detail. I would have
had him polygraphed by the best operative
security had to see if he had (sic) been
a double-agent, informing Castro about
our poison pen things, and so on. TI
would have had all our Cuban sources

J queried about it." (Ibid., p. 166)

000036

As the record reflects, these plots were known

by few within the CIA. Mr. Helms’ testimony. regarding
R Boca tert fied be was notin apesition to ansuer ques tions related toc (Passe

cant Caste bat Med phese hatte be ans WeCA By pHs Ufo wereint

*See also HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton,
pp.%o~$4wherein Angleton states tha hedidnst ican & Agen

Ne Chain &

degre:

to ussasy OME Fidei Carte until atte the Warren Comm jo 30 had

Compicdead 17S on Ket i gation,


y

these plots reveals that the Agency compromised the polroy ot
ats Pirector
bs —prenice

to supply all relevant information to
Cece stotementef onn Mtoe, P joa herein )

the Warren Commission. The following exchange
between Committee Counsel and Mr. Helms illustrates
the extent of the Agency's compromise:

Mr. Goldsmith: Mr. Helms, I take it from your
testimony that your position is
that the anti-Castro plots, in
fact, were relevant to the
Warren Commission's work; and,
in light of that, the Committee
would like to be informed as to
why the Warren Commission was
not told by you of the anti-
Castro assassination plots.

Mr. Helms: I have never been asked to testify
before the Warren Commission about
our operations.

Mr. Goldsmith: If the Warren Commission did not
know of the operation, it certainly
was not in a position to ask you
about it.

Is that not true?

Mr. Helms: Yes, but how do you know they did

EEE EEE eS Ee not krew about it? How do you
know Mr. Dulles had not told them?
How was I to know that? And besides,
I was not the Director of the Agency
and in the CIA, you did not go
traipsing around to the Warren Com-
mission or to Congressional Committees
or to anyplace else without the
Director's permission.

Mr. Goldsmith:



seseett Bf tesieg

Mr. Helms: I did not, as far as I recall.
(HSCA Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard
\j Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 30-31.4,emphasis
aaded )

Mr. McCone testifed that he first became aware
of the CIA's anti-Castro assassination plots
involving CIA-Mafia ties during August 1963. He
stated that upon learning of these plots he directed
that the. Agency cease all such activities. (HSCA

4\ Class. Depe. of John McCone, 8/17/78, p- 13)
When asked whether the CIA desired to withold informa-
tion from the Warren Commission about the Agency anti-
Castro assassination plots to avoid embarrassing the
Agency or causing an international crises he gave
the following response:
"T cannot answer that since they (CIA
employees knowledgeable of the
continuance of such plots) withheld
the information from me. I cannot
answer that question. I have never
been satisfied as to why they with-
held the information from me. (Ibid.,
“yp. 16) ma
Regarding the relevancy of such plots to the
Warren Commission's work, Warren Commission counsels

Rpkin, Slawson and Spector were in agreement that

such information should have been reported to the

000638


Casey Class. Depe. o€ T. LeeRankin, e/ 7/78,

Warren Commission. (Exec. Sess. Test. of W.
Davia Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 27; Exec. Sess. Test.
of Arlen Spector 11/8/77, pp. 45-46; CF, Exec.
Sess. Test. of Wesley Liebeler, 11/15/77, p. 71
" where he states that possible witholding of

information by CIA about Agency attempts to

assassinate Castro did not significantly affect

Warren Commission investigation)

From the CIA's perspective,Mr. Rocca
testified that had he known of the anti-Castro
assassination plots his efforts to explore the
-possibility of a retaliatory assassination against
President Kennedy by Castro would have been intensi-
fied. He stated that: " a completely different
procedural approach probably would and should have
been taken." (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca

"7/17/78, p. 45

John Scelso, the above-cited CIA desk officer
who ran the CIA's initial investigation of President
Kennedy's assassination until that responsibility
was given to the CIA's counterintelligence staff,
offered a highly critical appraisal of Helms'

non-disclosure to the Warren Conmission:

860639


II.

y

- 18 -

Mr. Goldsmith: Do you think Mr. Helms was
acting properly when he failed
to tell the Warren Commission
about the assassination plots?

Mr. Scelso: No, I think that was a morally
highly reprehensible act, which
he cannot possibly justify under
his oath of office, or any

other standard of professional
public service. (HSCA Class.
Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78

VJ ps3

g. Agency Concern for the Sanctity

of Sensitive Sources and_ Methods. ~ Factors Affecting

CIA Resporise’ to Warren’ Commission Requests
The length of time required by the CIA to

respond to the Warren Commission's requests for
information was dependent upon 1) the availability
of information; * 2) the complexity of the issues
presented by the request and 3) ‘the extent to which
the relevant informatiay touched upon sensitive CIA
sources and methods. On the first two points, Mr.
Helms testified that when CIA had been able to
satisfy a Commission request, the CIA would then send
a reply back:

“and some of these inquiries obviously

took longer than others.
For example, some might involve

000049


y

checking a file which was in Washington.
Other inquiries might involve trying to
see if we could locate somebody in some
overseas country.
Obviously, one takes longer to per~-
i form than the other. (Exec. Sess. Test.
uy of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p- 25
At times the CIA's concern for protecting its
sensitive sources and methods. caused the Warren
Commission to experience greater difficulty in
getting relevant information than when the protec—
tion of such sources and methods was not at issue.
J. Lee Rankin expressed the opinion that the Agency's
effort to protect its sensitive sources and methods , par Tic-klac a
itn Cegard To CiAsurceillance Specter 2 1 M2ki co
Offectadthe quality of the information to which
the Warren Commission and its staff were given

access. (HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin 8/17/78,
aaz

jp. 22) As a result of the CIA's concern,in some instances

the Agency made the unilaterial decision to
limit access to CIA materials by the Commission.
(HSCA Class. Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78,-p. 158)
: re late
The Committee has identified two*areas of
concern in which the Agency's desire to protect its

sensitive sources and methods impeded the Warren

Commission's investigation. These are:

Ea
4


Hoge

1) Witholding information from the Warren

Commission pertaining to +he=phete-

survedianeeand telephonic surveillance
operations of the CIA's Mexico City Station

2) As a related consideration, the Agency's
reticence to reveal the origin of the photograph
now referred to as that of the "Mexico

City Mystery Man" developed HEA’ MexicoCrhy Photo -
__sarcyeillance operat at tons by

OAS Enitiok Concern fear Revealing
Sensitive Sour vey ana Methods

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence
of sensitive technical operations, as outlined above,
i was evident from the inception of the Warren Commission.

Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized

at first to reveal all our technical operations.
V (Ibid., p- 158) But Scelso did testify that:

We were going to give them intelligence
reports which derived from all our sources,
including technical sources, including the
telephone intercept and the information
gotten from the interrogation of Silvia
Duran, for example, which corresponded

t almost exactly with the information from
the telephone intercepts.

Mr. Scelsco's characterization is supported by
examination of the background to the first major CIA

report furnished the Warren Commission regarding

00008?



sSSEHED efectos

Lee Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (CIA

poc. FOIA #509-803, 1/31/64, Memorandum for J.

Lee Rankin from Richard Helms) Much of the
information provided to the Warren Commission
in this report was based upon sensitive sources
and methods, identification of which had been
deleted completely from the report.

The CIA policy limiting Warren Commission
knowledge of CIA sources and methods was articu-
lated as early as December 20, 1963, at which
time a cable was sent from CIA headquarters to
the Mexico City Station which stated:

; Our present plan in passing information
oe to the Warren Commission’ is to eliminate
” mention of telephone taps, in order to
protect your continuing ops. Will rely
instead on statements of Silvia Duran
and on contents of Soviet Consular file
which Soviets gave ODACID (CIA Doc. FOIA
#420-757, 12/20/63, Dir 90466) ~
The basic policy articulated in the December
20, 1963 ete Me set forth in a CIA memorandum
of December 10, 196% as it specifically concerned
\ the CIA's relations with the FBI, (CIA Memorandum
for File, 12/20/63, Birch O'Neal, included in with Soft
file materials) In that memorandum, Birch O'Neal

of the CIA Counterintelligence/Special Investigations

Group Staff wrote that he had been advised by Sam



Papich, FBI liaison to the CIA, that the FBI was
anticipating a request from the Warren Commission

for copies of the FBI's materials which supported

or complimented the FBI's five volume report of
December 9, 1963 that had been submitted to the
Warren Commission. Papich provided O'Neal with
this report which indicated that some United

States Agency was tapping telephones in Mexico

and asked him whether the FBI could supply the
Warren Commission with the source of the telephone
taps. O'Neal's memorandum shows that he discussed
this matter with Scelso. After a discussion

with Helms, Scelso was directed by Helms to prepare

CIA material to be passed to the Warren Commission-

O'Neal wrote:

0006



He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not

the Agency's desire to make available

to the Commission at least in this

manner--via the FBI-sensitive informa-~

tion which could relate to telephone

taps, (CIA Memo for File, 12/20/63, by

Birch O'Neal, included in Soft File materials)*

*

The opinion expressed by Scelso as of December
20, 1963 was set forth on January 14, 1964 in a
formalized fashion. When Helms expressed his
concern regarding exposure by the FBI of Agency
sources to the Warren Commission. Helms wrote
that the CIA had become aware that the FBI had
already:

called to the attention of the
Commission, through its attorney,

that we have information (as deter-
mined from Agency sources) coinciding
with the date when Oswald was in Mexico
City and which may have some bearing

on his activities while in that area.
(CIA dissemination to FBI, 1/14/64,

CIA # CSCI-3/779/510.

Mr. Helms further indicated that the CIA might
be called upon to provide additional information
acquired from checks of CIA records and agency
sources. He suggested that certain policies be
employed to enable CIA to work cooperatively
with the Commission in a manner which’ would
protect CIA information, sources and methods.
Among the policies articulated were two which
Helms claimed would enable the Agency to control

the flow of Agency originated information. In

this way the CIA could check the possibility of
revealing: its sources and methods inadvertantly.
The policies articulated were:



The CIA policy of eliminating reference to Agency
sensitive sources and methods is further revealed
by examination of an Agency cable, dated January 29,
1964, sent from CIA Headquarters to the CIA Mexico
City Station. (CIA Doc. FOIA #398-204, 1/29/64,
DIR 97829) This cable indicated that knowledge of
Agency sources and techniques was still being with-
held from the Warren Commission, and stated that on
Saturday, February’ 1, 1964, the CIA was to present
a report on Oswald's Mexico City activities to the

Warren Commission which would be in a form

protective of the CIA's Mexico City Station's

sources and techniques (Ibid.)

(Footnote cont'd from pg. 23.)

1): Your Bureau not disseminate information re-
ceived from this Agency without prior concur-
rence :

2) In instances in which this Agency has provided
information to your Bureau and you consider

that information is pertinent to the Commission's

interest, and/or compliments (sic) or otherw.
is pertinent to information developed or
received by your Bureau througn other sources
and is being provided by you to the Commission,
you refer the Commission to this Agency. In
such cases it will be appreciated if you will
advise us of such referral in order that we may
anticipate the possible future interest of the
Commission and initiate certain p:
meeting its needs. (Ibid.)

ratory steps to

900626


zy

\

HSCQ Paper .
————s Co pes

x. Presraiesly pabay REWI w10 cia
1%O = 1006 = 100057 rs

a SHC Box 22, Foer 19: pas - Hlephene tops... tdeplene steps were
aac] a tnjaschin with Whe Mopean autheyihien.

i o .

29: me tedachens, ine, URGW so 3x; 2)23) 6"
mes telease2d

Rey sooo, wa isuty
$5) 10142-10010" —

1 ARK Rk 72, FIN, ons Gare” Klaplone tops... telephone dope. Negicon
Ler jam ieNNANNN?"Elleae-ceneeeeeee vy . oo
Quite "Cie, aK emyauchon with te was fdeasid)

Os as “ARGU!” cos redacke

. Pap Oey wine
a @ -
SZ copy, Some 80 TD Pq als wMeyican autheyitrewss, dehwer Haxice au)
The United SheTEA” (He, balm delephene tap phrams aud The th cone
fonds SEM” phrase wave uct yelleus bightghh? )

Pav Telwy:
BD Heese Shuateak Chea.
MARA orignal fer tit LD

5 74: “ureu” nek Ww prlighted
were There tise emp,

Gs _ soya + wise

1¥0410142- oor E—

J AEX Box 22, Ris, 1g: Ras Moyes autherhee... belteen Megice aud the
wel £2, FS, ONG Ea

Ustbee Steles 7 Cha, qellew hithligleay b Mh Saute as Me 24 copy 90 “tease?
abova,

P24 + “USGu GF Yellos highlechk2
Cys versa ave heve with ne Properd fede chans
1 AER Gey aa, FG, 1+ Py ads Wichlchh? were tte Secmd telephone tape phrase,
eat the Megicau authored". Thy Usesicn, redid MYG[IC, needs Ceeonsiderahen,

Day Diche|feadhy? eeleascay Hleghins dopa” pases pritlun, pier the abowr releases «
4 oo moe

P24 UFGer mak haghlighhed

Pes VOT ave wdtucr


pb he ci ot CIR Concemn tor Sins itive Souresanad Methods vis avis
Peheprenic and Preto Sacvertlance’ OpRraki ont of Mazico Coty

Seki
Telephone Taps

Mr. Helms offered testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to inform. the Warren Commission, at least
during. the initial stage of the Commission's work,
of the CIA's telephonic and photo surveillance
operations in Mexico City.
The reason for the sensitivity of these
telephone taps and surveillance was not
only becy@se it was sensitive from the
Agency's standpoint, but the telephone
taps were running in conjunction with
the Mexican authorities and therefore,
if this had become public knowledge,
it would have caused very bad feelings
between Mexico and the United States, »
, and that was the reason. (Exec. Sess.
“ Test. of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 51-52)

\ The CIA's unwillingness to inform the Warren
Commission in the early stages of its investigation
of the above-described surveillance operaticns is
a source of concern to this Committee. It is
indicative of an Agency policy designed to skew
in its favor the form and substance of information
the CIA felt uncomfortable providing the Warren
Commission. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John Scelso,

5/6/78, p. 158) This process might well have

hampered the Commission's ability to proceed in

000627


- 26 -

its investigation with all the facts before it.

As noted previously, on January 31, 1964,
the CIA provided the Warren Commission with a
memorandum that chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's
Mexico City visit during September 26, 1963 -

(CIA Doc. FOIA #509-803 1/31/64)
October 3, 19632 That memorandum did not mention
that Oswald's various conversations with the. Cuban
and Soviet Embassy/Consulates had been tapped and

by the Agericy's Mexico City Station

subsequently transcribed? Furthermore, that memo-
randum did not qeneion that the CIA had tapped
and transcribed conversations between Cuban Embassy
employee Sylvia Duran and Soviet officials at the
Soviet Embassy/Consulate nor was mention made of
the conversations between Cuban President Dorticos
and Cuban Ambassador to Mexico Armas which ‘the CIA
had also tapped aad transcribed.

On February 1, 1964, Helms appeared before the
Commission and Likely) Giscussea the memorandum of
January 31, 1964. (CIA Doc. FOIA #498-204, 1/29/64,
DIR 97829) On February 10, 1964, J. Lee Rankin wrote

Helms in regard to the CIA memorandum of January 31.

(JFK Doc. No. 3872) A review of Rankin's letter

908



indicates that as of his writing, the Warren
Commission had no substantive knowledge of the
telephonic surveillance operation or the production
i.e., the tapes and transcripts from that operation.
Rankin inquired in the February 10, 1964 letter
whether Oswald's direct communication with employees
of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in Paragraph 1

of January 31 memorandum) had been facilitated by
telephone or interview. Manifestly, had‘the Warren
Commission been informed of the telephonic
surveillance operation and its success in tapping
Oswald this inguiry by Rankin would not have been
made.

Raymond Rocca's testimony tends to support
this conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that
between the time period of January 1964 - April 1964,
Warren Commission's representatives had visited the
CIA's headquarters in Langley, Virginia and had
been shown various transcripts resulting from the
CIA's telephonic surveillance operations in Mexico
City. (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78,

p- 89) However, Mr. Rocca did not personally make

8096:


“

this material available to Commission representa-
tives and was not able to state under oath
precisely the point in time at which the Warren

Commission first learned of these operations. (Ib

On February 19, 1964 the CIA responded to
Rankin's inquiry of February 10. The Agency
response did indicate that Oswald had phoned the
Soviet Consulate and was also interviewed at the
Consulate. However, the Agency neither revealed
the source of this information in its response to
the Commission nor indicated that this source
would be revealed by other means (e.g. by oral

briefing). (Ibid.)

Warren Commission Knowledge cf CIA Telephonic Surveillance

During the period of March ~ April 1964,
David Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which
among other issues concerned Warren Commission know-
ledge of and access to the production material
derived from the CIA telephonic surveillance operations
in Mexico City. A review of these memoranda tends
to support the Committee's belief that the Warren

Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman, and

000650


and Willens did not obtain access to CIA telephonic
surveillance materials until April 9, 1964. On

that date, Coleman, Slawson and Willens met with

Win Scott, the CIA's Chief of Station in Mexico
City, who provided them with various transcripts
and translations derived from CIA telephone taps
of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy/Consulates. (Slawson
Memorandum of April 22, 1964, Subject: Trip to
Mexico City id aa 5
Prior to April 9,it appears doubtful that
the Commission had been given even partial access
to the referenced material. Nevertheless, by March
12, 1964, the record indicates that the Warren
Commission had at least become aware that the CIA
did maintain telephonic surveillance of the Cuban
Embassy/Consulate. (Slawson memorandum, March 12,
1964, Subj: meeting with CIA representatives).
Slawson's memorandum of March 12 reveals that. the Warren
Commission had learned that the CIA possessed tran-
scripts of conversations between the Cuban Ambassador
to Mexico, Armas, and the Cuban President Dorticos. The

Dorticos-Armas conversations, requested by the Warren

oh

000654



+heMacikto
Commission representatives at meeting 3 with

CIA officials, including Richard Helms,. concerned
Silvia Duran's arrest and interrogation by the
Mexican Federal Police. (Slawson Memorandum of
April 22, 1964, pp. 3, 19, 45-46) Helms responded
to the Commission's request for access, stating
that he would attempt to arrange for the Warren
Commission's representatives to review this material.
(Slawson Memorandum of March 12, 1964, p. 6)

Another Slawson memorandum, dated March 25,
1964 concerned Oswald's trip to Mexico. In that memo
Slawson wrote that the tentative conclusions
he had reached concerning Oswald's Mexico trip,
were derived from CIA memoranda of January 31, 1964
ané February 19, 1964, (Slawson Memorandum of March

25, 1964, p. 20) and, in addition, a Mexican federal

Fi . Bue A \
police summary of interrogations”conducted shortly— &, c
aes Fas Bae LY Tre, anbhantlihee

after the assassination{with sseeeee

Slawson wrote

A large part of it (the summary report)

is simply a summation of what the Mexican
police learned when they interrogated Mrs.
Silvia Duran, an employee of the Cuban
Consulate in Mexico City, and.is there-
fore only as accurate as Mrs. Duran's
testimony to the police. (Ibid.)

ee


These comments indicate that Slawson placed

qualified reliance upon the Mexican police summary.

Moreover, there is no indication that Slawson had
been provided the Duran telephonic intercept tran-
scripts. In fact, by virtue of Slawson's comments
concerning the Mexican police report, it would
appear that the Warren Commission, as of March 25,
had been provided little substantive information
pertaining to Silvia Duran. As Slawson reveals,
the Commission haa been forced to rely upon the two
memoranda that did not make reference to the surveil-
lance operations, and a summary report issued by
the Mexican Federal Police. Thus, the Agency had

( Prerludad
<i 2 for over three months 'i= .... exposing

actus artanalys !S
the surveillance operations tc theAreview of the

concerned Warren Commission staff members. As was

stated in the CIA cable of December 20, 1964 to its

Mexico City Station:

Our present plan in passing information
to the Warren Commission is to eliminate
mention of telephone taps, in order to
protect your continuing operations. Will
rely instead on statements of Silvia
Duran and on contents of Soviet consular
file which Soviets gave ODACID here.

(CIA Doc. FOIA #420-757, Dec. 20, 1964,
CIA p. 2144, DIR 90466)


The Committee's belief that Slawson had
felepheaie wheree af
not been given access to the Duran‘transcripts is
further supported by reference to his memorandum
of March 27, 1964 (CD 692) wherein he states his
conclusion that Oswald had visited the Cuban
Embassy on three occasions. (Ibid, p. 2) This
Soci wen neces based upon an analysis of
Silvia Duran's testimony before the Mexican police.
This memorandum bears no indication that he had
reviewed any of the Duran transcripts. Furthermore,
had Slawson been given access to these transcripts,
certainly their substance would have been incorporated
into his analysis and accordingly noted for this
purpose. His analysis would have reflected the fact
of his review either by its corroboration or
criticism of the above cited Mexican police summary report.
Logically, access to the CIA's telephonic

surveillance production would have clarified some

ambiguities. For example, on September 27, at 4:05 p.m.

(Slawson Memorandum of April 2l, 1964, Subj: Intercepts

~~, _



Silvia Duran telephoned the Soviet Embassy, and
stated that an American was presently at the
Cuban Embassy requesting an in-transit visit to
Cuba. This American was later determined by CIA analysts
to be Oswald. Again on September 28, at 11:51 a.m.
Duran telephoned the Soviet Consulate stating that
an American, subsequently identified by CIA analysts
oo ee
Had this’ informatiorSbeen made available to Slawson,
his calculations of Oswald's activities in Mexico
City would have been more firmly established than
peblentd fn bas memp tandann
they were as*of March: 27, 1964.
The record supports the Committee's finding
that. as of April 2, 1964 the Warren Commission had
still not been given access to ialingigp a oe Ngee Ce (skenuk.
series of telephonic intercepts. ‘ AY memorandum of
that date by Coleman and Slawson, posed one
question to the CIA and made two. requestsfor information
from the Agency. (Slawson - Coleman Memorandum of
April 2, 1964, Subj: Questions Raised by the Ambassador
Mann File) Coleman and Slawson wrote:

1) What is the information source referred

to in the November 28 telegram that



ety Ate

Oswald intended to settle down in
Odessa;

2) We would like to see copies of the
transcripts of the intercepts, translated
if possible, in all cases where the
intercepts refer to the assassination
or related subjects;

3) We would especially like to see the
intercept in which the allegation that
money was passed at the Cuban Embassy
is discussed (Ibid.)

1

The question initially posed by (Item D in
the above-referenced memorandum of April 2 concerns
the CIA telephonic intercept of September 27, 1963
at 10:37 a.m. (Slawson Memorandum of April 21,
1964, p. 1) Obviously, if Slawson found it necessary
to request the source of the information, he had
not as yet been provided access to the original
material by the CIA.

Item Number Two of the above listing tends to show

that the Commission had not been giveéng access to the intercepts

concerning the assassination.

002656


Item number three of the above listing

reveals that the intercept of the Dorticos-Armas

conversation of November 22, 1964, in which the
passing of monies was discussed had not as of April
2 been provided to the Commission. The Commission
had specifically requested the Dorticos-Armas

transcripts at @ March 12, 1964 meeting between

Commission representatives and Agency representatives.
(Slawson memorandum, March 12, 1964, Subj: Conference
with CIA on March 12, 1964

On April 3, 1964, Coleman and Slawson expressed
their concern for receiving complete access to all

materials relevant to Oswald's Mexico City trip:

The most probable final result of the
entire investigation of Oswald's activities
in Mexico is a conclusion that he went
there for the purpose of trying to reach
Cuba and that no bribes, conspiracies,

etc. took place.

...-In order to make such a judgment (that

all reasonable lines of investigation that

might have uncovered other motivations or

800057

8


possible conspiracies have been followed

through with negative results), we must

become familiar with the details of what

both the American and Mexican investi-

gatory agencies there have done. This

means reading their reports, after trans-

lation, if necessary, and in some cases

talking with the investigators themselves.

(Slawson' and Coleman Memorandum, April
13, 1964, Subj: Additional lines of
Investigation in Mexico Which May Prove

Worthwhile, p. 11.)

ee Manifestly,. Coleman's and Slawson's desire
‘ ton pened
for a thorough investigation had been ©... ~~ > by

the CIA's concern lest its sources and methods,
= however relevant to the Commission's investigation,
be exposed. Considering the-gravity and signi-
ficance of the Warren Commission's investigation
the

a Agency's witholding of material from the

Commission staff was clearly improper.

000658


1964
On April 8, David Slawson, Howard Willens,

and William Coleman flew to Mexico City, Mexico

to meet with the representatives of the State
Department, FBI, CIA, and the Government of Mexico.
(Slawson Memorandum, April 22, 1964, Subj: Trip

to Mexico City, p. 1) Prior to their departure,

they met with Thomas Mann, the U.S. Ambassador to
Mexico during Oswald's visit to Mexico'City and at

the time of President Kennedy's assassination. (Ibid.)
Ambassador Mann told the Warren Commission representa-
tives that the CIA's Mexico City Station was actively
engaged in photosurveillance operations against the

Soviet and Cuban Embassy/Consulates (Ibid., p. 3)

Upon the group's arrival in Mexico City, they
were met by U.S. Ambassador Freeman, Claire Boonstra
of the State Department, Clarke Anderson of the FBI,

i and Winston Scott of the CIA (Ibid. pp. 9-10
That same day, during a meeting between the
Commission representatives and Win Scott, Scott made
\ available to the group actual transcripts of the CIA's
telephonic surveillance operations accompanied with

5 & Taree]
English translations of the transcripts. In addition,

aoeus9

9



eae Galo

he provided the group with reels of photographs
a aa

for the time period covered by Oswald's visit

that had resulted from photosurveillance of the
Libid 2
Cuban and Soviet Embassy entrances7David Slawson

wrote:

"\..Mr. Scott stated at the beginning
of his narrative that he intended to make
a complete disclosure of all facts,
including the sources of his information,
and that he understood that all three of
us had been cleared for TOP SECRET and
that we would not disclose beyond the
confines of the Commission and its
immediate staff the information we obtain-—
ed through him without first clearing it
with his superiors in Washington. We
agreed to this." (Ibid.)

—

Mr. Scott described to the Commission repre-

: ‘i AN Ce cehy |
sentatives the CIA's course of action 2. mv. >
following the assassination, indicating that his
staff immediately began to compile dossiers on
Oswald, Duran, and everyone else throughout Mexico
whom the CIA knew had had some contact with Oswald
(Ibid.) Scott revealed, that all known Cuban and Russian
—
intelligence agents Had “quickly been put under
surveillance following the assassination. Slawson
concluded

“Scott's narrative plus the material we

were shown disclosed immediately how

incorrect our previous information had

been on Oswald's contacts with the Soviet

and Mexsrean Embassies. Apparently the

Crhan

009060


distortions and omissions to which our
information had been subjected had

entered some place in Washington,

because the CIA information that we

were shown by Scott was unambiguous on
almost all the crucial-points. We had
previously planned to show Scott, Slawson's
reconstruction of Oswald's probable
activities at the embassies to get Scott's
opinion, but once we saw how badly distorted
our information was we realized that this
would be useless. Therefore, instead, we*
decided to take as close notes as possible
from the original source materials at some
later time during our visit." (Ibid, p. 24)*

4 A separate Slawson memorandum of April 21, 1964 records
the results of the notetaking from original source

materials that he did following Scott's disclosures.

These notes dealt exclusively with the telephonic

intercepts pertaining to the Duran and Oswald conver-

sations for the period Sept. 27 - Oct. 1, 1963.

(Slawson Memorandum, April 21, 1964 Subj: Intercepts

from the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in -Mexico City.

It is evident from Slawson's record that the
Agency's denial of original source materials, in this
case the telephonic surveillance intercepts, seriously
impaired the Commission's ability to draw. accurately
reasoned conclusions regarding Oswald's sojourn in

Mexico City. It meant that as of April 10, 1964,

)
are

000663


ae CIA HAS HO CSIECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DO ENT

nearing the halfway point of the Warren Commission
investigation, the Commission was forced to retrace
the factual path by which it had structured Oswald's

activities in Mexico City. It further revealed that

the Agency had provided ambiguous aaa a

the Commission when, in fact Con almest—all—the

“Sensiei-pomts") significantly more precise materials

could have been made available for analysis, by—the

Gemmissten. (Ibid,) Thus, the Agency's early policy
of not providing the Commission with vitally relevant
information derived from certain sensitive sources

and methods had seriously undermined the investigation
and .possibly foreclosed lines of investigation e.g.,
Cuban involvement, that might have been more seriously
considered had this material been expeditiously
provided.

Merico City Station Pho fosurve tiance and Ha,
Mexico City Mystery Man

On November 23, 1963, FBI Special Agent Odum
showed Marguerite Oswald a photograph of a man

bearing no physical resemblance to her son (Warren

90060?



aay ees

/Commission Report p. 364) This photograph had been
supplied to the FBI on November 22 by the CIA's

Mexico City Station after Agency representatives

had searched their files in an effort to locate
bia.
information on Oswald? (CIA Doc. DDP4-1555, 3/25/64,

Warren Commission Doc. 67)72-this photograph, which was ‘one

“ina series resulting from the CIA's photosurveillance

operations against the Soviet and Cuban Embassy/Consulates,

4 Prior to the assassi

Sas had been linked by

the Mexico City Station to Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)
Richard Helms, in a sworn affidavit before the Warren
Commission, stated that the photograph shown to

Marguerite Oswald had been taken on October 4, 1963

in Mexico City and mistakenly linked at that time to

Oswald. (Warren Commission Affidavit of Richard Helms

He

8/7/64, Vol
aed th
Seem rey

[o) February 10, 1964, Marguerite Oswald testified
before the Warren Commission and recounted the cir-
cumstances under which she was shown the photograph.
Avarren Commission Report Vol Tpls3)urs. Oswald testified

\ that she believed this photograph to have been of Jack

Warren Commision Repet, PR Fad

aN

000052



Thereafter, on February 12, 1964, J. Lee

Rankin wrote to Thomas Karramesines, Assistant DDP
requesting both the identity of the individual
depicted in the photograph and an explanation of
the circumstances by which this photograph was
obtained by the Central Intelligence Agency.
(Letter of J. Lee Rankin, Feb. 12, 1964, JFK Doc.
#3872)

On that same day, in a separate letter,
Rankin wrote to DCI McCone regarding materials
that the CIA had disseminated since November 22,
1963 to the Secret Service but not to the Warren
oa Commission. Rankin requested copies of these
materials which included three CIA cables. The
cables concerned the photograph subsequently shown
by the FBI to Oswald's mother of the individual
originally identified by the Mexico City Station
as Lee Harvey Oswald. (Letter of J. Lee Rankin

Feb. 12, 1964, JFK Doc. #3872)

‘ fX among the materials disseminated by the CIA
to the Secret Service was a November 26 dissemination.

(CIA Doc DIR 85177, 11/26/64) That cable concerned

g0ebe4



the Dorticos-Armas conversations and disclosed the

existence of CIA telephonic surveillance operations

in Mexico City at the time of e assassination

and Oswald's earlier vantes result the CIA was
reluctant to make the material disseminated to

the Secret Service available to the Warren Commission

for in so doing the Agency would have necessarily exposed its

telephonic surveillance operationsto the Commission.

John Scelso testified regarding the circumstances
surrounding the eventual explanation given to the
Commission .recounting the origiffn of the photograph in
question. Scelso stated:

"we did not initially disclose to the
Warren Commission all of our technical
operations. In other words, we did not
initially disclose to them that we had
photosurveillance because the November
photo we had (of MMM) was not of Oswald.
Therefore it did not mean anything, you £
see?" whee Starnes. OL HSCA Class, Dep?- °
Tobe Scelso , Sica, & ie

Mr. Goldsmith: ...So the Agency was making a unilateral
decision that this was not relevant to the Warren
Commission. ‘sie?

Scelso: Right, we were not authorized, at first,
to reveal all our technical operations.

(us
a ¢ ibid

In summary the records shows that
By February 12, 1964 the Warren Commission had

inadvertantly requested access to telephonic surveillance

production, a cause for concern within the hare

000665


4 £9 £9 LF £9 2 SF S82 7

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) yoo? EON

ie) ones

-44—- bate seo"

due to the sensitivity of Agency sources and methods.
Similarly, the possible disclosure of the photosurveillance
operations to the Warren Commission had also begun to cause
concern within the Agency.

On March 5, 1967, Raymond Rocca wrote in an

internal memorandum to Richard Helms that “we have

a problem here for your determination.” Rocca ae

outlined Angleton's desire not to respond directly
to Rankin's request of February 12 regarding the CIA

material forwarded OE Secret Service since
&

November 23, 1964. Rocca then stated:

“Unless you feel otherwise, Jim would
prefer to wait out the Commission on the
matter covered by paragraph 2 (of the
above-referenced February 12 letter to McCone
requesting access to CIA reports provided
the Secret Service after November 22, 1963,

uv (JFK Doc. 3982). If they come back on this
point he feels that you, or someone from
here, should be prepared to go over to show
the Commission the material rather than pass
‘them to them in copy. Incidentally, none
of these items are of new substantive
interest. We have either passed the material
in substance to the Commission in response to
earlier levies or the items refer to aborted
leads, for example, the famous six photographs
which are not of Oswald..." (CIA Doc. FOIA —~
#579-250, 3/5/64; see also HSCA Classified
/Deposition of James Angleton, 10/5/78, pp.13t-b 3

Cabs

Classification: shes O00GE8

| Classified by derivation: C- Berk

[QA GA. GA WS. DH DURA, CUT! CUZ CUS ET

ee ee ee


SF 9 LE LF LF LF LF  F FF ~

i
Classification: __seefet

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-44a-

wherein he states that the only reason

for not providing the Warren Commission with
access to CIA surveillance materials

was due to the Agency's concern for
protection of its sources and methods)

Classification:

SA UR YR ES. SSUES CUE US CGE

| Classified by derivation: ___

SHIT Oe ew.

,
4
,
4
6


On March 12, 1964, representatives of the

Warren Commission and the CIA confered regarding

the February 12 request for the materials forwarded
to the Secret Service by the Agency. (Letter of

. J. Lee Rankin March 16, 1964, JFK Doc. # 3872, Slawson
Memorandum, March 12, 1964)

The record indicates that the Commission at

the March 12 meeting pressed for access to the ised

we

Slause~ Memorandum, Match ity
Secret Service = Rankin wrote to Helms
on March 16 that it was his understanding that the
CIA would supply the Commission with a paraphrase of
each report or communication pertaining to the Secret

Service materials "with all indications of your

confidential communications techniques and confidential
sources deleted.“ You will also afford members of
our staff working in this area an opportunity to

review the actual file so that-they may give assurance

that the paraphrases aré complete." (Letter Cee bed
“Rankin, March 16, 1964, paragraph 2, JFK.Doc. No.3872) ~~.
Rankin further indicated that the same
procedure was to be followed regarding any material

in the possession of the CIA prior to November 22,



1963 which had not as yet been furnished because
it concerned sensitive sources and methods. (Ibid.,
/par. 3)
Helms responded to Rankin's March 16 letter
“on March 24 (FOIA # 622-258) by two separate

communications. (CIA Doc. DDP4-1554, hereinafter CDr631,
3/24/64, CIA Doc., DDP4'-1555, 3/24/64, CD 674 hereinafter)
CD 631 provided the Commission with a copy of the
October 10, 1963 CIA dissemination to FBI, State Dept.,
INS and Navy Dept. (and to the Secret Service on
22 Nov.) regarding Lee Harvey Oswald ane presence
at the:Soviet Consulate in Mexico City. “The response
further revealed that’ on October 23, 1964, CIA had

from the Navy
requested two copies of the most recent photograph
of Oswald in order to check the identity of the person
believed to be Oswald in Mexico city yurtnarnore,
the CIA stated, though it did not indicate when, that
it had determined that the photograph shown to Marguerite
Oswald on November 22, 1963 die not refer to Lee
Harvey oswald:-=The Agency explained that it had checked the

photograph

against the press photographs of Oswald generally
available on November 23, 1963, 104

CD 674 reveals that on Nov. 22, 1963 immediately followir

00603


the assassina

ion, and cn Wovember 23, 1963, three

cabled reports were received at CIA headquarte

from the CIA Mexico City Station regarding photographs
of an unidentified man who had visited the Cuban and

~
Soviet Embassies during October and November 1963. ( ¢ D474)

Parapnrases of these cables, not revealing sensitive

t
sources and methods, were attached to CD 574. 2
Agency wrote’ that the subject of the photo referenced
(vo
in these cables was not Oswald. “It was further

stated that:

"In response to our meeting of 12 March and
your memo of 16 March, Stern and Willens
will review at Langley the original copies
of these 3 disseminations to the Secret
Service and the cables on which they were
based, as well as the photos of the unidenti-
fied man." (CLA Dee:—BBP4—-1555-ep6447 24

March1964) + 5.4)
On March 26, William Coleman wrote in a memorandum
for the record:

"The CIA directed.a memorandum to J. Lee Rankin
on March 24, 1964 (Commission Document No. 631
in whith it: set-forth ‘the dissemination of

the information on Lee Harvey Oswald. I realize
that this memorandum is only a partial answer

to our inquiry to the CIA dated March 16, 1964
and I hope that the complete answers will give
us the additional information we requested."
(Memorandum of William Coleman, March 2b, 1964)

Coleman went on to state:
"As you know, we are still trying to get an

explanation of the photograph which the FBI
showed Marguerite Oswald soon after the

000078


eee Useeees

assassination. I hope that paragraph 4

of the memorandum of March 24, 1964

(CD 631) sent Mr. Rankin by the CIA

is not the answer which the CIA intends.

to give us as to this inquiry." (Ibid.)

BRarchardy
a) The following day, as agreed by Warren Commission
and Agency representatives, Samuel Stern of the
Commission visited CIA headquarters in Langley,
virginia, [ Memeracten st Semecl Steen, Herc 214]
Sterns’ memorandum of-hisewéeit reveals that
bid

he reviewed Oswald's file with Raymond Rocca.——Stern
indicated that Oswald's file contained those materials

dereonas previously to the Warren Commission by
the cra.” ‘the file also contained:
"Cable reports of November 22 and November
23 from the CIA's Mexico City Station
relating to the photograph of the unidenti-
fied individual mistakenly believed to be
Lee Harvey Oswald and the reports on those
cables furnished. on November 23,; 1963 to
the Secret Service by the CIA." “cieon acre
of. Samuel_Stern,—March.21,19 6 4)
Stern noted that these messages were accurately
paraphrased in the attachments’ to CD 674 provided the
x Paragmph Yof cd GI s tated tho CIP concludcel V4Aa,
(eer rul of Uni denti Fred dividual Aid not d€p ict-
IS

parth upon press phete caphs of Os Wel
Jaijoble on

Beran a Neverber 23) 1963
nergy : 00067!


ce

Warren Commission on March 24, 1964. He also
reviewed the October 10, 1963 cable from CIA's
Mexico City Station to CIA headquarters
reporting Oswald's contact with the Soviet Embassy
in Mexico city tn addition, Stern examined the
October 10, 1963 cable from CIA headquarters to

the Mexico City Station reporting background infor-
mation on Oswald." (Ibid.) Stern recorded

that these messages were

paraphrased accurately as set forth in the CIA's January
31 memo to the Warren Commission reporting Oswald's
Mexico City trip. C64)

Lastly, Stern noted that Rocca provided him
for his review a computer printout of the references
to Oswald-related documents located in the Agency's
electronic data storage systenl He stated "there is
no item listed on the printout which the Warren Com—
mission has not been given either in full text or
paraphrased." (Ibid...)

Thus, by the 27th of March, a Warren Commission
representative had been apprised of the circumstances

surrounding the mysterious photograph.

00072


Luisa Calderon

Approximately five hours after President
Kennedy's assassination a Cuban government employee
in Mexico City named "Luisa" received a telephone

from an unidentified man speaking Spanish.

cal
(cta voc. other 7105, 11/27/63, 173-615, attachment)
This call had been intercepted and recorded by the
CIA's Mexico City Station as the result of its
LIENVOY (tel. tap) operation. (Ibid.) ‘The Mexico
City Station,as subsequently reported to CIA
headquarters, identified the Luisa of the conversa-
tion as Luisa Calderon, who was then employed in
the Commercial Attache's office at the Cuban Consu-
late. (Ibid.)

During the course of tiie conversation, the

unidentified caller asked Luisa if she had heard -
(of the assassination) ae aie
the latest news. Luisa replied in a §joking tone?)

“Yes, of course, I. knew almost before Kennedy."

(Ibid.)
CIA's
Paraphrasing the telephone intercept transcript,
it states that the caller told Luisa the person

000672


CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE CF THIS DOCUMENT

apprehended for Kennedy's slaying was the

"President of one of the Committees of the Fair

Play for Cuba." bisisa replied that she also knew

. tbs. faee i
this.“Luisa inquired whether the person being

ibd
held for the killing was a "gringo." “The unidenti-

yd
fied caller replied, "yes."-“Tuisa told her caller
that she had learned nothing else about the assassina-

tion and that she had learned about the assassination
wid
only a little while ago.—The unidentified caller

commented:

We think that if it had been or had
seemed...public or had been one of

the segregationists or against
intergration who had killed Kennedy,
then there was, let's say, the
possibility that a sort of civil

war would arise in the United States;
that contradictions would be sharpened...
who knows oud

Luisa responded:

Imagine, one, two, three and now, that
makes three. (She laughs.) (Ibid, p. 2
ee Pes

Raymond Rocca, in response to a 1975 Rocke-
feller Commission request for information on a
’ possible Cuban conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy wrote regarding Calderon's comments:


LP £9 £2 £9 49 £9 9 £29 i ~

Secret

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-55-

Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto
suggestion of foreknowledge. This is the
only item in the intercept coverage of

the Cubans and Soviets after the assassina-
tion that contains the suggestion of fore-
knowlege of expectation. (CIA Doc.,
Memorandum of Raymond Rocca for DC/OPS,
5/23/75, p. 15)* (gee PS Sa Gor By

Standing by itself, Luisa Calderon's cryptic

comments do not merit serious attention. Her words

may indeed indicate foreknowledge of the assassina-
tion but may equally be interpreted without such a
sinister implication. Nevertheless, the Committee
has determined that. Luisa Calderon's case should

have merited serious attention in the months following

the assassination.

In connection with the assassination, Luisa
Calderon's name first surfaced on November 27, 1968
in a cable sent by then Ambassador Mann to the State
Department (CIA Doc. DIR’85573, 11/27/63).

In that cable Mann stated:

feasibility of requesting Mexican authorities

to arrest for interrogation: Eusebio Azcue,

Luisa Calderon and Alfredo Mirabal. The two

men-dre Cuban national and Cuban consular

officers. Luisa Calderon is a secretary
in Cuban Consulate here." (ibid.)

eet 7s

Cc. Berk

Classification: ___Secret

Ra MRM MH HM RM BR DB WM MW AA TU!

, | Classified by derivation: __~" 7"

é "...Washington should urgently consider
\

De I LI I LE I MF LF.



4 LF LY £9 £9 LE LD £2

Classification: __Secret

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-55a-

*Regarding the issue of whether Calderon's comments
could reasonably be interpreted to indicate possible
foreknowledge, the CIA position is as follows:

Calderon's conversation was identified

as a possible item of information from

the Agency's Cuban and Soviet telephone
intercepts that might suggest foreknowledge
of a plot to assassinate the American Presi-
dent. This involves a faulty translation of an
answer Calderon gave to her caller. In answer
to the latter's question as to whether’ she

had heard the latest news, Calderon said:

"Si, claro, me entere casiantes que Kennedy."

The verb entere is mistranslated. Me enfere
(the first person of the verb enterarsefe,
past tense) should be translated as .l found

out (or I learned) /about it -- the assassination/
= almost before Kennedy /did7." In other words,
oe Calderon was saying she heard about the shooting
of Kennedy almost at the time the event took
place..." (CIA Doc., Memorandum Regarding
Luisa Calderon conversation, p.1).

g During the Rockefeller Commission inquiry,

6 The Committee fundamentally disputes the
: narrow interpretation of Calderon's comments
: assigned by the Agency. It is the’ Committee's
: position that translation of Me Entere as
: either "I found out" or "I learned about"
does not foreclose interpretation of Calderon's
comments as a suggestion on hér part of possible
foreknowledge of President Kennedy's assassination.
i The nterpretation, ynany evek, should howe ban ett te
pee He judgenSat ef the Barren Comm (58700 1 st the Cle

Classification: = = 008676
O53

Classified by derivation: _____—_

a Mme BB BBB BSB A BB FZ


Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted ONTO g
from ClA—controlled documents.) DALANDIOR

_ ASE O' TH DOCUNER

This cable does not state the basis for
at
arresting eet ote nonee er the CIA's copy of this
cable bears a handwritten notation on its routing
ie me OMe e578, used

page. That notation states: "Info from Amb Mann
for Sec Rusk re: ...persons involved with Oswald
in Cuban Embassy." Mann went on to state in urgent
terms: "They may quickly be returned to Havana in
order to eliminate any possibility that Mexican
government could use them as witnesses." (Ibid.)

According to CIA files, Calderon made

reservations to return to Havana on Cubana Airlines on

December 11, 1963, less than four weeks after the
assassination. (CIA Doc. CSCI-316/01783-65, 4/26/63
Calderon, Azcue and Mirabal were not arrested
nor detained for questioning by the Mexican federal
police. However, Silvia Duran, a friend and associate

of Calderon's and the one person believed to have

4A

*It is the Committee's belief that Mann was prompted
to request the arrest of Calderon on the basis of
Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte's allegation that Calderon
was present at the Cuban Embassy when Oswald

was allegedly given a sum of money presumably to
carry out the assassination of President Kennedy.
(CIA Doc. DDP4-2741, 1 June 1964, Attachment C)

94
Classification: __Seetet ee

= GR Re EA BB BB ZA Zz

c. Berk

| © Classified by derivation:

p
p
é
f
g
§
é
4
6
6
6
6


4
§
.
6

49 LF £9 £9 £29 £35) £9 £9 7
Gi

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ay

had repeated contact with Oswald while he was in
Mexico City, (ae arrested and questioned by the
Mexican police on two separate occasions. (CIA
Doc. DIR 84950, 11/23/63, CIA Doc. DIR 85471,
11/27/63)

During her second: interrogation, Duran was
questioned regarding her association with Calderon.
There is no indication in the reinterrogation report
accounting for the ge ti ing of Duran about Calderon.
(CIA Doc. DDP4-0940, 2/21/64) The information regarding
Duran's interrogation was passed to the Warren Commission
on February 21, 1964, more than two months after
Calderon had returned to Cuba. (Ibid.)

Information was reported to the CIA during
May 1964, from a Cuban defector, tying Luisa
Calderon to the Cuban Intelligence apparatus. The
defector, AMMUG-1, was himself a Cuban Intelligence
Officer who supplied valuable and highly reliable
information to the CIA regarding Cuban Intelligence
operations. (CIA Doc., Memorandum of Joseph Langosch

to Chief, Office of Security, 6/23/64) Calderon's

4

Classification: segigk e00678

| c. Berk

Classified by derivation: —* CT *

A “A. GA GE! TE lUCE.UC TUR CUCL .DUCUCCLRm.UhUCT,;,..UCUCUC LEZ: CUS!


ES LF £9 £2 £9 SF 3 429 a ~*

Classification: a

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-S7a-

ties to Cuban intelligence were reported to the Warren
Commission on June 18, 1964. (CIA Doc. FOIA #739-319,
6/19/64) However, the Committee has determined from
its review that the CIA did not provide Calderon's
conversation of November 22 to the Warren Commission.

Consequently, even though the Warren Commission was aware that

C006 75
Classification:

CA YW SB SB BEB Bes Ba Ri wR =

}

au | Classified by derivation:

I I I I I I eM ee
j Z



Calderon had connections to intelligence work,

as did other Cuban Embassy officers, the vital

link between her background and her comments

was never established for the Warren Commission

by the CIA. The Agency's oversight: in this

regard may have forclosed the Commission from

actively pursuing a lead of great significance.
Calderon's-201 file reveals that she

arrived in Mexico City from Havana on January 16,

1963, carrying Cuban Passport E/63/7. Her date

of birth was believed to be 1940 (CIA Doc. Dispatch

IMMA21612, no date given) Calderon's presence in

Mexico City was first reported by the CIA on July

15, 1963 in a dispatch from the CIA's Miami field

office to the CIA's Mexico City station and to the

Chief of the CIA's Special Affairs Staff (for Cuban

operations). (CIA Doc. Dispatch, JFCA-10095, 7/15/63)

That dispatch had attached to it a report containing

biographic data on personnel then assigned to the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. At page three of the

attached report Luisa Calderon was listed as Secretary

of the Cuban Embassy's commercial office. The

009680



notation indicated that a report was pending on
No such report is present

Calderon. (Ibid., p. 3 of attachment) ‘The in Calderon's
a 201 File.
Agency has attempted, without success, to locate
the report.
Luisa Calderon's association with the Cuban
DGI was first recorded by the CIA on May 5, 1964
(CIA Doc.“Biind Memorandum oF Harold Swensony FOIA
68-290 5/5/64) At that time, Joseph Langosch,
Chief of Counterintelligence for the Special Affairs
Staff, reported the results of his debriefing of
the Cuban defector, AMMUG-1. The memorandum stated
that AMMUG-1 had no direct knowledge of Lee Harvey
Fo Oswald or his activities but was able to provide
items of interest based upon the comments of certain
Cuban Intelligence Service officers, (Ibid.). Specifically,
ANMUG-1 was asked if Oswald was known to the :Cuban
intelligence services before November 23, 1963
AMMUG-1 told Langosch "Prior to October 1963, Oswald
visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on two or
\ three. occasions. Before, during and after these

visits, Oswald was in contact with the Direccion

0006:

CS



eecTION TO. Paige

e
2A

ee
He

General De Intelligencia (DGI), specifically
with Luisa Calderon, Manuel Vega Perez, and
Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez." (Ibid.)

Langosch thereafter wrote that Calderon's
precise relationship to the DGI was not clear.
As a comment to this statement he set forth the
CIA cable and dispatch traffic which recorded her
arrival in Mexico during January 1963 and departure
for Cuba within one month after the assassination.
(Ibid. )

On 'May 7, 1964, Langosch recorded additional
information he had elicited from AMMUG-1 regarding

Oswald's possible contact with the DGI. (CIA Doc

FOIA 687-295, attach. 3, 5/7/64) Paragraph 3 of

this memorandum stated in part:
"a. Luisa Calderon, since she returned
to Cuba, has been paid a regular
salary by the DGI even though she
has not performed any services.
Her home is’in the Vedado section
where the rents are high.

b. Source (AMMUG) has known Calderon
for several years. Before going
to Mexico, she worked in the

‘ Ministry of Exterior Commerce

in the department which was known
as the "Empress Transimport."

Her title was Secretary General
of the Communist Youth in the
department named in the previous
sentence. (Ibid.)



On May 8 Langosch further disclosed AMMUG's
knowledge of the Oswald case. (Ibid, attach. 5)
Langosch paraphrased AMMUG's knowledge of Calderon
as follows:

I thought that Luisa Calderon might have
had contact with Oswald because I learned
about 17 March 1964, shortly before I made
a trip to Mexico, that she had been
involved with an American in Mexico. The
information to which I refer was told to
me by a DGI case officer... I had commented
to (him) that it seemed strange that Luisa
Calderon was receiving a salary from the
DGI although she apparently did not do

any work for the Service. . (The case officer)
told me that hers was’ a peculiar case and
that he himself believed that she had been
recruited in Mexico by the Central Intelligence
Agency although Manuel Piheiro, the Head

of the DGI, did not agree. As I recall,
(the case officer) had investigated Luisa
Calderon. This was because, during the time
she was in Mexico, the DGI had intercepted
a letter to her by an American who signed
his name OWER (phonetic) or something
similar. As you know, the pronunciation

of Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in
Spanish so I am not sure of how the name
mentioned by Hernandez should be spelled.
It could have been "Howard" or something
different. As I’ understand the matter,

the letter from the American was a love
letter but indicated that there was a
clandestine professional relationship
between the writer and Luisa Calderon.

I also understand from (the case officer)
that after the interception of the letter
she had been followed and seen in the
company of an American. I do not know. if
this could have been Oswald... (Ibid.)

000685


On May 11, Raymond Rocca wrote a memorandum
to Director Richard Helms regarding the information
Swenson had elicited from AMMUG (CIA Doc. FOIA 687-295,
5/11/64, Rocca Memorandum) Rocca proposed that "the
DpP in person or via a designee, perferably the
former, discuss the AMMUG-1 situation on a very
restricted basis with Mr. Rankin at his earliest
convenience either at the Agency or at the Commission
headquarters. Until this takes place, it is not
desirable to put anything in writing? (Ibid. p. 2)

On May 15, 1964, Helms wrote Rankin regarding
AMMUG's information about the DGI, indicating its
sensitivity and operational significance. (CIA Doc.
FOIA 697-294, 5/15/64, Helms Memorandum) Attached
to Helms’ communication was a paraphrased accounting
of Langosch's May 5 memorandum. (Ibid.) In that
attachment the intelligence associations of Manuel
Vega Perez and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez were set forth.
However, that attachment made no reference whatsoever
to Luisa Calderon.

Howard Willens of the Warren Commission

requested as a follow-up'to the May 15 memorandum,

000624


peeey ye ees

access to the questions used in Langosch's
interrogation of aMuc. (CIA Doc. FOIA 739-316, 6/19/64,
Memorandum) On June 18, 1964 Arthur Dooley of
Rocca!s @ounterintelligence Research and Analysis
Group took the questions and AMMUG's responses to
the Warren Commission's officels for Willen's review.
Willens saw Langosch's May 5 memorandum. The only
mention of Calderon was as follows: "The precise
relationship of Luisa Calderon to the DGI is not
clear. She spent about six months in Mexico from
which she returned to Cuba early in 1964." | (Ibid.)
However, Willens was not shown Langosch's
memorandy, of May 7 and May 8, 1964 which contained
much more detailed information on Luisa Calderon,
including her possible association with Lee Harvey
Oswald and/or American intelligence. (Ibid.)*

The Warren Commission as of June 19, 1964,
had little if no reason to pursue the Luisa Calderon

lead. ‘It had effectively been denied significant

* It should be noted that these memoranda of May 5,
7, 8, 11 and June 19 with attachments, are not
referenced in the Calderon 201 file. (See CIA
Computer printout of Calder 201 file) ‘Their
existence was determined b 12 Committee's
independent review of other ney files.

00068

st


background information. This denial may have
impeded or prevented the Commission's pursuit

of Calderon's poténtial relationship to Oswald

and the assassination of President Kennedy. But
even if the Warren Commission had learned

of Calderon's background and possible contact with
Oswald it still had been denied the one significant
piece of information that might haveraised its
interest in Calderon to a more serious level. The
Warren Commission was never told about Calderon's

conversation of November 22, 1964

The Committee has contacted former Commission
and CIA representatives in an effort to determine whether
a transcript of the Calderon conversation was
ever shown to the Warren Commission. The response
i # has uniformly been that the Calderon
conversation was never made available to the Commission

nor was its existence ever made known to the Commission.



HSCA Interview of W. David Slawson, 8/17/78, p.5;
Willens response to letter of HSCA Class. Exec.
Sess. Test. of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 132; CF
deposition of Raymond Rocca, p. 156 wherein he
states that he is sure the Commission knew of it,
Sap lett. AGS Calderon DOT HIS BATE Ko

reference to the conversation nor does it indicate

that it was ever made known to or provided the

Warren Commission for its analysis. (CIA Compute

print-out of Calderon
In an effort to determine the manner in which the CI

treated the Calderon conversation this Committee

posed the following questions to the CIA:

1. Was the Warren Commission or any Warren
Commission staff member ever given access
to the transcript of a telephone conversa-
tion, dated November 22, 1963, between a
female employee of the Cuban Embassy/
Consulate in Mexico City, identified
as Luisa, and an unidentified male speak~
ing from outside the Cuban Embassy/Con~
sulate? If so, please indicate when
this transcript was provided to the Warren
Commission or its staff, which CIA official
provided it, and which Warren Commission
members or staff reviewed it.

2.. Was the Warren Commission or any member

of the Warren Commission or any Warren
Commission staff member ever informed

000687


SE LF LF £9 £2 £9 S29 S28  F ~

Classi

ication: __secret

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-65a-

1963? If so, please indicate when and

in what form this information was provided,
and which CIA official provided it. (HSCA
request letter of August 28, 1978)

The CIA responded by memorandum:

"Although the (Mexico City) Station considered
the conversation of sufficient possible
interest to send a copy to headquarters,
the latter apparently did nothing with
it, for there appears to be no record in the
Oswald file of such action as may have
been taken. A review of those Warren
Commission documents containing information
provided by the Agency and still bearing a
Secret or Top Secret classification does
not reveal whether the conversation was
given or shown to the Commission."

{CIA Doc., Memorandum Regarding Luisa
Calderon conversation, p. 1

orally or in writing of the substance of the
above-referenced conversation of November 22,

The available evidence thus supports the
conclusion that the Warren Commission was never
given the information nor the opportunity by

which it could evaluate Luisa Calderon's

Kennedy's assassination. Had the Commission been
expeditiously provided this evidence of her
intelligence background, association with Silvia
Duran, and her comments following the assassination,

it may well have given more serious investigative

000688

a GA VA CA EH HSS DB BSB RPRBsBz OZ

Classification: Secret

| Classified by derivation, _C, Berk

| significance to the events surrounding President


ae Yee

consideration to her potential knowledge of Oswald
and the Cuban government's possible involvement in
a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

Two difficult issues remain which are raised

‘aie uie by the Committee's finding. First, why didn't
the Agency provide the Calderon conversation to the
Warren Commission; secondly, why didn't the Agency
reveal to the Warren Commission its full knowledge
of Calderon's intelligence background, her possible
knowledge of Oswald and her possible connection to
W the CIA or some other American intelligence apparatus.
ay The first question can be explained in benign
ghee terms. It is reasonably possible that by sheer
oversight the conversation was filed away and not

recovered or recollected until after the Warren

Commission had completed its investigation and F r ‘|
(gee Pp OS) Cirded Porion asctestnote Keren
published its report. (See above CIA explanation)
As for the Agency's withholding of information
concerning Calderon's intelligence background, the
record reflects that the Commission was merely
informed that Calderon may have been a member of
n the DGI. (CIA Doc. 5/5/64, Swenson Memorandum)

The memoranda which provided more extensive examina-

tion of her intelligence background were not made


available for the Commission's review. Significantly,
the May 8 memorandum written by Joseph Langosch
following his debriefing of AMMUG-1 indicated that
AMMUG-1 and a second Cuban Intelligence officer ~
believed Calderon to be a CIA operative. (CIA Doc.
FOIA 687-295, attach '5, 5/8/64) It is possible

that this information was not provided the Warren
Commission either because there was no basis in

fact for the allegation or because the allegation
was of substantive concern to the Agency. If the
allegation were true, the consequences for the CIA
would have been serious. It would have demonstrated

posse
that aSCIA operative, well placed in the Cuban Embassy,

may have possessed information prior to the assassina-
tion regarding Oswald and/or his relationship to the
Cuban Intelligence Service , and that Services
possible involvement in a conspiracy to assassinate
President Kennedy.

Regarding Calderon's possible association
with the CIA, Agency files reviewed reveal no

ostensible connection between Calderon and the CIA.

000690


However, there are indications that such contact
between Calderon and the Agency was contemplated.
A September 1, 1963 CIA dispatch from the Chief
of the Special Affairs Staff to the CIA's Chief
of Station in Mexico City states in part:

..-Luisa Calderon has a sister residing

in Reynosa, Texas, married to an American

of Mexican descent. If (CIA asset) can

further identify the sister, our domestic
exploitation section might be in a posi-
tion to follow up on this lead...Please
levy the requirement on (CIA asset) at

the next opportunity. (CIA Doc. HMMW-

1935, 9/1/63)

An earlier CIA dispatch from the CIA Chief
of Station in Mexico City to the Chief of the CIA's
Western Hemisphere Division records that:

Wilfredo of the Cuban Consulate, Tampico,

reported that Luisa Calderon has a sister

residing in Reynosa, Texas...Luisa may go
up to the border to. visit her sister soon--
or her mother may make the trip--details

not clear (CIA Doc. HMMA 21849, July 31,

1965)

At the very least, the above dispatches
evidenced an interest in the activities of Calderon
and her family. Whether this interest took

the form of a clandestine-agent relationship is

not revealed by Calderon's 201 file.

ee


- 69 -

The Committee has queried David Ronis, the
author of the above cited dispatch requesting
that Calderon's sister be contacted by the CIA's
“domestic exploitation section." (HSCA Class.
Staff Interview of David Ronis, 8/31/78) Ronis
was a member of the CIA's Special Affairs Staff
at the time he wrote the dispatch. He worked
principally at CIA headquarters and was responsible
for recruitment and handling of agents for collection
of intelligence data. Mr. Ronis, when interviewed
by this Committee, stated that part of his responsi-
bility was to scour the Western Hemisphere division

for operational leads related to the work of the

Special Affairs staff. Ronis recalled-that he
normally would send requests to CIA field stations
for information or leads on various persons. Often
he would receive no response to these requests,
which normally indicatea that no follow-up had
either been attempted or successfully conducted.

\ It was Ronis’ recollection that the above-cited
domestic exploitation section was a task force

within the Special Affairs Staff. He also stated

that in 1963 the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division

009022


might have been requested to locate Luisa Calderon's

sister. Ronis told the Committee that he had no

recollection of recruiting any person associated
with the Cuban Intelligence Service. He did recall
that he had recruited women to perform tasks for
the Agency. However, he did not recall ever recruiting
any employees of the Cuban Embassy/Consulate in
\ Mexico City. Finally, Mr. Ronis stated that he had
no recollection that Luisa Calderon was associated
with the CIA. (Ibid.)
Various present and former CIA representatives
were queried whether Luisa Calderon had ever been
a associated with the CIA. The uniform answer was
that no one recalled such an association. (Cites:
Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard Heims, 8/9/78, p. 136;
HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 148;
HSCA Staff Interview of Joseph Langosch, 8/21/78,

Piccolo, Interview of 4 ago, 1978

Thus, the Agency's file on Calderon and the
n testimony of former CIA employees have revealed no
connection between Calderon and the CIA. Yet, as

indicated earlier, this file is incomplete:the

080682


most glaring omission being th

"6
cryptic remarks

Gath
ner 201 filejof *

Sibtsiipstensioe ——~

following the assassination of President Kennedy. }
z a

SE nerragk ion Protiekd re 2A iasnarning
RA SA LA aUO

~his Committee's investigation of Luisa
Calderon has: revealed that a defector from the Cuban
Intelligence Services provided the CIA with signi-
ficant information about Lee Harvey Oswald's contacts
with the DGI in Mexico City. This defector was

re

assigned the CIA cryptonym AmMMUG-1 (A-1 hereinafter) .*

CIA files reveal that A-1 defected from the
DSI on April 21, 1964 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
When he defected, A-1 possessed a number of DGI
documents which were subsequently turned over to
the CIA. (CIA Doc. OTTA IN 68894, 4/24/64
Following his defection, a CIA officer, Joseph H-
Langosch, went to Canadato meet A-1, debrief him,

and arrange for A-l's travel into the United States-

(Ibia.) On May l, 1964, 22 reels of Langosch's

*Tt is now known that A-1 did provide signe LigaUs peren )
leads to the CIA regarding Luisa calderorePP tis
further apparent that little of this information
was made available by the CIA mission.
Therefore, the pos bility
provided other in format
relevant to the ¥

CIA

was not properly repo ted to the commission. 00869"


eee ee

debriefing of A-1 were forwarded to the Chief of
Station in Ottawa, Canada. (CIA Doc. Dispatch OCDA
7763, 5/1/64) Effective on May 1, A-1 was under
contract with the CIA for operational purposes.

(CIA Doc. Contract Approving Officer Memo, 6/6/64)

By June 23, 1964, Langosch was convinced that A-1

would be of great value to the Agency. He stated:

There is no. question in my mind that
AMMUG-1 is a bona fide defector or
that he has furnished us with accurate
and valuable information concerning
Cuban intelligence operations, staffers,

and agents.. (CIA Doc. Langosch Memo to
Director of Security, 6/23/64

As an officer of the DGI, A-l from August of

, 1963 until his defection was assigned to the DGI's

Illegal Section B (CIA Doc. OTTA IN 68894 4/24/64)
which was responsible for training agents for
assignmént in Latin America. His specific responsi-
bility pertained to handling of agent operations

in El Salvador. (CIA Doc. Personal Record Question-

naire 6/4/64; CIA Doc. Otta In 68894 4/24/64

A-l identified for the CIA the Cuban Intelli-
gence officers assigned to Mexico City. Langosch
described A-1's knowledge of DGI operations in

Mexico as fcllo

e006a5


In Mexico City, he knows who the
intelligence people are. One is the
Cuban Consul Alfredo Mirabal. He is
called the Chief of the Centre. That

is his title but he is actually the
intelligence chief, or at least he

was until the 16th of April at which
time a replacement was sent to Mexico

to take over. This fellow's name is
Manuel Vega. The source says that

the Commercial attache whose name is
Ricardo Tapia or Concepcion (he is

not sure which is an intelligence
officer) and another one is Rogelio.

( I might say that some of these names
are familiar to me.) (Langosch debriefing
of A-1, 4/30/64, p. 5 of reel 4, 4/23/64)

Thus, A-1l was able to provide the CIA soon
~ after his. defection with accurate information
regarding DGI operations and DGI employees in

Mexico city. W Tn sect Com p72

The Committee has reviewed the CIA's files
concerning A-]. This examination was undertaken
to determine: 1) whether A-1 had provided any
valuable investigative leads to the CIA pertaining
to the assassination of President Kennedy; and 2
whether, if such leads were provided, these leads

\ and/or other significant information were made ,

available to the Warren Commission.

B30096


The Committee's initial review of the
materials provided by the CIA to the Warren
Commission did not disclose the existence of the
AMMUG files\ However, the Committee did during
the course of its review examine a file containing ‘
material passed to the Rockefeller Commission. That
file made reference to A-1l. Included in this
file was a memorandum of May 5, 1964 written by
Joseph Langosch which concerned information A-1
provided about the Oswald case. (CIA Doc. FOIA 68-290
Langosch Memorandum, 5/5/64) Also contained within
this file were the A-1l debriefing memoranda of
May 7, and May 8, 1964 previously cited with regard
to Luisa Calderon. (CIA Doc. FOIA #687~295, attach's
3 and 5) Following review of the memoranda, the
Committee requested access to all CIA files
Soneeena ne lives sane to A-1.

From review of these materials the Committee
has determined that the Warren Commission did learn
during mid-May 1964 that Lee Harvey Oswald probably

had come in contact with DGI officers in Mexico City.

O09G07


the Waren Commission
Prior to“learning of Oswald's probable contact

with DGI officers, James Angleton, Chief of the
CIA's Counter Intelligence Staff passed an internal
memorandum to Raymond Rocca, also of the Counter-
intelligence Staff, which stated that he had been
informed by the DDP, Richard Helms, that J. Lee
Rankin had contacted John McCone to request that
the Director consent to an interview béfore the
Warren Commission on May 14, 1964, (J. Edgar
Hoover also appeared before the Commission on
that date prior to McCone's appearance. Warren

V Commission Report’ ‘A Be reep) (CTA Doc. FOIA 689-298,
Memorandum of James Angleton, 5/12/64) Angleton
also wrote:

I discussed with Mr. Helms the nature of
the recent information which you are
processing which originated with the
sensitive Western Hemisphere source. I
informed him that in your view this would
raise a number Of new factors with the
Commission, that it should not go to the
Commission prior to the Director's appear-
ance unless we have first had some pre-
liminary reaction or made sure that the
Director is fully aware of the implica-
tions since it could well serve as the
basis for detailed questioning. The DDP
stated that he would review this care-
fully amd made (sic) a decision as to

the question of timing. (Ibid.)


to in Angleton's memowas A-1. This conclusion is
based in part upon the date of this memo which
was quite close in time to A-l's defection. In
addition, Rocca's staff prepared prior

to DCI McCone's appearance before the Warren

a"Brief
Commission for Presentation to the Warren Commission

Dy
outlining various positions adopted by the CIA vis a
vis its investigative efforts and assistance to the
Commission. . (CIA Doc. FOIA 695-302-A, 5/14/64

At Tab E of this brief it states:

Within the past week, significant infor-

mation has been developed by the CIA re-

garding the relationship with Oswald of
certain Cuban intelligence personnel in

Mexico City and the reaction in Havana

within the Cuban Intelligence Service

to the news of the assassination of

President Kennedy. The Commission Staff

is in the course of being briefed on the

Cuban asspect. (Ibid., Tab E)

On May 15, 1964, the day of McConé's interview,
the Warren Commission received its first formal
communication regarding A-l. (CIA Doc FOIA 697-294,
5/15/64) However, the Agency did not at that time
identify A-l by his real name or cryptonym nor did

the Agency indicate that the source of this information

000698


was a defector then residing under secure conditions
in the Washington, D.C. area. (Ibid.) The May 15
communication did state that the Agency had
established contact “with a well-placed invidivual
who has been in close and prolonged contact with
ranking officers of the Cuban Direccion General de
Intelligencia." (Ibid.)

Attached to the May 15 communication was a
copy of Langosch's above referenced memorandum of
May 5, 1964 regarding knowledge of Oswald's pro-
bable contact with the DGI in’Mexico City. The
attachment made no reference to the source's status
as a defector from the DGI. (Ibid., attachment)

As set forth in the section of this report
concerning Luisa Calderon, on June 18, 1964, Howard
Willens of the Warren Commission reviewed Langosch's
May 5 memo and the questions upon which the informa-
tion set forth in the Memo.was elicited. Neither the
questions nor the memo shown to Willens made
reference to the source's status as a defector col-
laborating with the CIA. (CIA Doc FOIA 739-319,

6/19/ 64).

00910°


Based upon review of the Langosch memoranda,
the Committee has determined that significant
information carr Luisa Calderon, specifically

of Nov. details of her
her conversation Bagel soot aeica with Cuban Intelligence
were withheld from the Warren Commission. This
information as described above, was derived from
However,

debriefings of A-1. from the Committee's review

of the A-1 file provided by the CIA, the Committee

has not found any credible evidence indicating that
other information provided by A-1 to the CIA was
relevant to the work of the Warren Commission. However,
in its review the Committee has determined that a
specific document *Teferenced in the A-1 file is

not present in that file.

The missing itemis of considerable concern to
the Committee. It is a debriefing report of A-1
entitled "The Oswald Case." (CIA Doc Dispatch UFGW-
5035, 3/23/65) On March 23, 1965, a CIA dispatch
records the transmittal of the report, along with
eleven other A-l debriefing reports. (Ibid.) Next to
the listing of the "Oswald Case" debriefing report

is the handwritten notation "SI." A CIA employee

who has worked extensively with the Agency files


SS £2 LF 9 49 LD £9 HF ~*~

Classification: es

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-80-

system told a Committee staff member that this
notation was the symbol for the CIA component
known as Special Intelligence. Other CIA
representatives believed the notation was a
reference to the Counterintelligence component
CI/SIG. IW a CIA memorandum dated September 27,
1978, the CIA has adopted the position that
debriefing Report No. 40 is a duplication of
the original Langosch memorandum of May 5, 1964
concerning AMMUG's knowledge of Lee ath

REP To a Fork

7
6
4
6
4
6
§ ogee a a STR SserFR,
6
6
6
6
6
bh

ASSO eabel LASTED OF Oe es Ta fata Riera

e Committee has questioned A-

officers regarding additional information that A-1 may

have supplied about Oswald. Joseph Langosch, when

interviewed by the Committee, stated that he did not

have contact with the Warren Commission and does

not know what information derived from A-l's de-

briefings was supplied to the Warren Commission. (HSCA
V Staff Interview of Joseph Langosch, 8/21/78; Cite also

D Gealairs Mites Uae (re Ausphin Synird
Interviews of Hildago & Pidcdlo) 'He also stated that

RA RA MRM MBM Mm BD DBR A RR EA

he does not recall that A-1 provided any other information

Classification: et good. 5

| Classified by derivation: C+ Berk

Tae IT Ie aI ee.


4 = ba b= abe

SF 9 LF SF LF MS £7 £9 fF ~*~

Classification: ee

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-80a-

*The CIA memorandum states in part as follows:

When CI Staff learned of AMMUG-1's defection
and considered the possibility that he

might have some knowledge of the Oswald
case, CI Staff submitted a list of questions
to WH (Western Hemisphere) for debriefing
AMMUG-1...WH desk records reflect that
AMMUG-1 was debriefed on 4 May 64 regarding
this questionnaire... /B/ecause the debriefing
on the Oswald case was handled as a sensitive
matter, it was dictated directly to a CI
(Counterintelligence) stenographer on

5 May 1964. /Note: A-1 was debriefed on
several subjects on 4 May 64. The procedure
was to assign each subject discussed a
debriefing number and they were written

up in contact report form by the WH case
officer. The instructions from CI staff
were to handle the Oswald case debriefing
very closely and not to keep any copies in
WH Division/. The "Oswald Case" was

logged in the WH notebook log as debriefing
report number 40, but the report itself

was dictated by the WH Case Officer directly
to a CI staff stenographer. There would

be no reason to include the number 40 on

the report of this special debriefing for

CI staff, since it was their only debriefing
report. We are certain it is the debriefing
report (#40) becausé the date is the’ same;
it is the only debriefing report on Oswald
listed in AMMUG-1 records; and it it (sic)
the only AMMUG-1 debriefing report in
Oswald's 201 file.

(CIA Doc., Memorandum for the Record, Regarding
AMMUG-1 Debriefing Report on the Oswald
Case, 27 September, 1978, p. 1)

cation: = aggius

| Classified by derivation:

STITT Teese ws .


SF LF £7 2 42 £2 £2 £2 2 *

Classification: eas _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-81-

on Oswald's contact with the DGI except for that
set forth in the Memoranda of May 5, 7, and 8
as discussed herein. (Ibid.)
In a further effort to clarify the substance
of information that A-1 provided to the CIA
regarding Oswald, the Committee has attempted
to locate A-l. The CIA has also attempted to
locate A-1, whose present relationship with
« : the Agency is ambiguous, but has been Cee pet «Sor ¥)
oe to determine his present whereabouts.* The CIA's
2 inability to locate A-1 has been a source of
concern to this Committee, particularly in
light of his long association with the Agency.
remains tacomplate with Cena +e.
Thus, the Cacpentcels rece ch ot Cries information A-1
may have supplied the cIA about Oswald. However, with
the exception of the Calderon episode and on the
basis of the CIA's written reocrd, it appears that
\ the CIA provided the Warren Commission with all A-1
information of investigative significance.

A separate question remains, however. The

“
ER
Ser
= GTA PM BR SR SB BR BWR SRT BW

Agency, as noted earlier, did not reveal to the
Warren Commission that A-1 was present in the
age as aA
Classification: 00019 4
| Classified by derivation: _C. Berk

TAMA AMAAAaaAa



y manana’

4 LF AE £2 3S £9 2 £9 49

Classification: ——

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-8la-

*An April 1978 CIA communication to the FBI regarding
A-1 states in pertinent part:

Since 1971 (A-1) has not been involved
in any CIA operation in Miami or elsewhere.
‘ Joseph Norris is the alias of a CIA
representative who periodically debriefs
(A-1) on personalities and methods of the
DGI. There is no other CIA involvement with
Rodriguez. (CIA Doc. 0807602, CIA 202417,
Vol. 4, A-1 File 201-749651)

However, a CIA handwritten index card concerning
the Agency status of A-1 states:

Informed "Calvia" on 15 April 1977 that

(A-1) is still an active contact, not
receiving any salary, but could be paid if

and when used in an operation. No problems
here. SPOB will keep his contract in an
active folder. (CIA Doc., Handwritten Note,

15 April 1977, contained in Vol. 4 of A-1 file
201-749651)

Classification: se oogtes

Classified by derivation, __C+ Berk

133
Gas |

8004

&

‘“

a CCA HB BRB DSB Ba BB Sse Z. =|

4


Washington, D.C. area and, under controlled

conditions, accessible to the Commission. Giving

due consideration to the CIA's serious concern

for protecting its sources, the fact that A-l's
status was not disclosed prevented the Warren
ft Commission from exercising a possible option,

i.e. to take the sworn testimony of A-l as it

concerned Oswald and the Kennedy assassination.
i On this issue, as the written record tends to
show, the Agency unilaterally rejected the possibility
of exercising this option.
In light of the establishment of A-l's
bona fides, . . , his

proven reliability and his depth of knowledge of

Cuban intelligence activities, this option might

well have been considered by the Warren Commission.

ear ake Criticism Ase ed
The AMLASH Operation Cte §* ine eae Seas

During 1967, the CIA's Inspector General
hy issued a report which examined CIA supported

assassination plots. Included in this report

was discussion of the CIA-Mafia plots and an

009106



Agency project referred to as the AMLASH

operation (CIA Inspector General Report 1967

pp. 1-74, 78-112). The AMLASH operation involved

a high level Cuban official (assigned the CIA

eryptonym AMLASH/1) who, during 1962 while meeting

with a CIA representative expressed the desire to

assassinate Fidel Castro (Ibid., p. 84). Asa

result of AMLASH's expressed objective and the

CIA's desire to find a viable political. alternative

to the Castro regime, the Agency subsequently

provided AMLASH with both moral and material

support designed to depose Fidel Castro. (Ibid.,

pp. 80-94).. The AMLASH operation was terminated

by the CIA in 1965 as the result of security leaks.

(Ibid. pp. 104-106) During 1965, AMLASH and his

conspirators were brought to trial in Cuba for plotting

against Castro. AMLASH was sentenced to death, but

at Castro's request the sentence was reduced to

twenty-five years imprisonment. (Ibid.. pp. 107-110).
In its examination of the AMLASH operation

the 1967 IGR concluded that the CIA had offered both

direct and indirect support for AMLASH's plotting (Ibid. p.

9gdie?

80)


The most striking example of the CIA's direct

offer of support to AMLASH reported by the

1967 IGR states "it is likely that at the very
moment President Kennedy was shot a CIA officer

was meeting with a Cuban agent in Paris and giving
him an assassination device for use against CASTRO."
(Ibid.)

The 1967 IGR offered no firm evidence confirming
or refuting Castro's knowledge of the AMLASH operation
prior to the assassination of President Kennedy. The
1967 IGR did note that in 1965 when AMLASH was
tried i@havanafpress reports of Cuban knowledge
of AMLASH's ‘association with the CIAweredated from
November 1964, approximately one year after President
Kennedy's assassination: (Ipid. p. 111).

The Church Committee in Book V of its Final
Report examined the AMLASH operation in great detail
(ssc, Book V, pp. 2-7, 67-69) “ The Church Committee
concluded:

The AMLASH plot was more relevant to the

Warren Commision work than the early CIA

assassination plots with the underworld.

unflike those earlier plots, the AMLASH
i

800108


operation was in progress at the time
of the assassination; unlike the earlier
plots, the AMLASH operation could
clearly be traced to. the CIA; and
unlike. the earlier plots, the CIA had
endorsed AMLASH's proposal for a coup,
the first step to him being Castro's
assassination, despite Castro's threat
to retaliate for such plotting. No one
directly involved in either investigation
(i.e. the CIA and the FBI) was told of
the AMLASH operation. No one investi-
gated a connection between the AMLASH
operation and President Kennedy's
assassination. Although Oswald had been
in contact with pro-Castro and anti-
Castro groups for many months before the
assassination, the CIA did not conduct

a thorough investigation of questions

of Cuban government or Cuban exile

involvement in the assassination. (Ibid. p.

000108


In 1977, the CIA issued a second Inspeetor
General's Report concerning the subject of CIA
sponsored assassination plots. This Report, in
large part, was intended as a rebuttal of the
Church Committee's findings. The 1977 IGR states:

The Report (of the Church Committee)

assigns it (the AMLASH operation)

characteristics that it did not have
during the period preceding the assassina-
tion of JFK in order to support the SSC
view that it should have been reported

to the Warren Commission. (1977. IGR p. 2)

The 1977 IGR concluded that prior to the
assassination of President Kennedy, the AMLASH
operation was not an assassination plot.

Nevertheless, the 1977 IGR did state:

It would have served to reinforce the

credibility of (the Warren Commission)

its efforts had it taken a broader view

of the matter (of normal avenue of

investigation). The CIA, too, could

have considered in specific. terms

what most then saw in general terms--

the possibility of Soviet or Cuban

involvement in the assassination

because of the tensions of the time.
It is not enough to be able to point

900116


he

to erroneous criticisms made today.
The Agency should have taken broader
initiatives then as well. That
CIA employees at the time felt--as
they obviously did--that the activities
about which they knew had no relevance
to the Warren Commission inquiry does
not take the place of a record of ;
conscious review. (Ibid. p. 11) +»
Richard Helms, as the highest level CIA
employee in contact with the Warren Commission on
a regular basis, testified to the Rockefeller
Commission that he did not believe the AMLASH
operation was relevant to the investigation of
President Kennedy's death. (Rockefeller Commission,
Testimony of Richard Helms, 4/24/75 pp. 389-391,392) ¥
In addition, Mr. Helms testified before this
Committee that the AMLASH operation was not designed
to be an assassination plot (Exec. Sess. Test. of
Richard Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 26-27)
A contrasting. view to the testimony of Mr.
Helms was offered by Joseph Langosch who in 1963
was the Chief of Counterintelligence for the CIA's Special
Affai
Special Affairs Staff was the CIA component Staff
responsible for CIA operations directed against

the Government of Cuba and the Cuban Intelligence

Services (HSCA Class. Affidavit of Joseph Langosch,

ogeiit


i

SF £9 £9 LF £2 £2 £F £9 FF ~

Classification: oie

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-88-

Sept. 14, 1978, p. 1) The Special Affairs Staff
was headed by Desmond FitzGerald and was responsible
/

for the AMLASH operation (SSC, Book V, pp. 3, 8, 79) v

Langosch, as the Chief of Counterintelligence
for the Special Affairs Staff, was responsible for
safeguarding SAS against penetration by foreign
intelligence services, particularly the Cuban
Intelligence Services (HSCA Classified Affidavit
of Joseph Langosch, 9/14/78, p. 3)“ It was
Langosch's recollection that:

.-the AMLASH operation prior to the
assassination of President Kennedy was
characterized by the Special Affairs
staff, Desmond Fitzgerald (sic) and other
senior CIA officers as an assassination
operation initiated and sponsored by the
CTA (ibidi ipsa) cd
Langosch further recollected that as of 1962

it was highly possible that the Cuban Intelligence

Services were aware of AMLASH and his association

with the CIA and that the information upon which

he based his conclusion that the AMLASH

operation was insecure was available to senior deves CIA
gee pivatock)

officials, including Desmond FitzGerald. (Ibid., p. 4) 4

Ea _ Aa SR BR HE WD Hsia ESB FZ TZ

However, the issue before this Committee is

Classification: of 000112

| Classified by derivation: C+ Berk

Ta ee ee a


SF LF LF £9 £7 £9 LF 4 4 *«

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-88a-

*In response to Langosch's sworn statements, this
Committee has received from the CIA an affidavit

executed by Kent L. Pollock (CIA pseudonym) who "served
as Executive Officer for Desmond FitzGerald during the
entire period in which he was Chief of the Special Affairs
Staff...and discussed with him the AMLASH operation as it
progressed." (CIA Doc., Affidavit of Kent L. Pollock,
executed Oct. 5, 1978, p. 1)¥ Mr. Pollock specifically
contested Langosch's assertion that the AMLASH operation
was characterized by the Special Affairs Staff, Desmond
FitzGerald, and other senior level CIA officials as an
assassination operation. In pertinent part, Pollock

drew the following conclusions:

To the best of my knowledge, Mr. FitzGerald
considered the AMLASH operation to be a political
action activity with the objective of organizing
a group within Cuba to overthrow Castro and the
Castro regime by means of a coup d'etat. TI heard
Mr. FitzGerald discuss the AMLASH operation
frequently, and never heard him characterize it as

an "assassiafition operation." Mr. FitzGerald f

ae stated within my hearing on several occasions
his awareness that coup d'etat often involves
loss of life. (Ibid., par. 3, p. 2)

He also stated:

Desmond FitzGerald did not characterize the AMLASH

discussed any aspect of the AMLASH’ operation with
Joseph H. Langosch; the Deputy Chief, the other
branch chiefs and the special assistants could not
have so characterized it since they did not know
about the pen (the pen was specially fitted with a
\ hypodermic, syringe in response to urgings by AMLASH
for a means to start the coup by killing Castro.
The case officer offered the pen to AMLASH on the day
of President Kennedy's death. AMLASH rejected the
pen with disdain. /Ibid., par. 4, p. 27), (Ibid.,
par. 6, p. 3) oe

operation as an "assassidftion operation"; the
é case officer did not; I,-as Executive Officer, never

_ Classification: hfeer 00511
3

| Classified by derivation: _C._ Berk

_ Ieee Ie we



not simply whether the AMLASH operation was an
assassination plot prior to President Kennedy's
death. ‘The broader and more significant issue,
as the 1977 IGR has identified it, is whether
the AMLASH operation was of sufficient relevancy
to have been reported to the Warren Commission.

In the case of the AMLASH operation this
determination is a most difficult matter to
resolve. Reasonable men may differ in their
characterization of the Agency's operational
objectives.

Based upon the presently available evidence
it is the Committee's position that such informa-
tion, if made available to the Warren Commission,
might have stimulated the Commission's investiga-
tive concern for possible Cuban involvement or
complicity in the assassination. As J. Lee Rankin
commented before this Committee:

..-when I read...the Church Committee's

report--it was an ideal situation for

them to just pick out any way they

wanted to tell the story and fit it

in with the facts that had to be met

and then either blame the rest of it

on somebody else or not tell any more
or polish it off. I don't think that

900114


- 90 -

could have happened back in 1964.

I think there would have been a

much better chance of getting to

the heart of it. It might have

only revealed that we are involved

in it and who approved it and all

that. But I think that would

have at least come out. (HSCA Class.

Depo. of J. Lee Rankin, 8/17/78, p.91

The Committee is in agreement with Mr. Rankin
that had the AMLASH operation been disclosed to
the Warren Commission, the Commission might have
been able to foreclose the speculation and conjecture
that has surrounded the AMLASH operation during
the past decade. As history now records, the AMLASH
operation remains a footnote to the turbulent

relations between Castro's Cuba and the United States.

eoo1is
