# 180-10142-10309

## Page 1

180-10142-10309

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Jack euby

OCTANTM

STORET

Box 24

Folder 3

11110691

16/28 d

DDO

6/30

1065/49

Personzlity File Action Requert..

TO: RID /201 secten

Feom... Ann Egerter.

Branch: CIlSI

1.-9•64

THIS COPY IS W

FOR RELEASE

Restricted

Permanent charge.

Actin Dest.. CI/SI

Code: 731

a- memu for chief, CI/SI6

subd'.-JackRuby

From stephen C. millett, Jr. Doc. No 1207-439

¡FOIA Review 1 - 1977

same a 1216-441

"A reliable sousce"

who is

well versed in labur

affairs informed me today that Jack euby formert,

Rubenstein, was sent to Israel last year with a

delegation at American trade unionists, haung beer

placea on this delegation by Gibbons of the Teamste

unken. While in New York he was also in cuntact wi

Gleni Bondike... reportea to be an official of the

Histradust. (Israel federation of Labor)

a- It was also. stated thet the AFL-CIO hase

record that subject appled. last year in New arlean.

to the AFL-CIO offe there for a job as a

union arganizer."

Article from Wash. Post.

a Feb. 1964 "Ruby's Travels

Included: Trips to Cuba and mexico." by Jack Ruby"

william Read woodheld.

7

180-10142-10309

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

11310092

Salomón Pratkins. -Hotel seulla.

FOIA DOL. NO. 1209-440

4 memo fur the reccr.d

25 NoU 1963 by Birch B. O'Nea

A 9iL0 A.m. papien: called a and stated that he

wanted to besure we didn't have any additune!

information concerning. Ruby..

'I adulsed him that.

had checked our recoras,. Includina fru's, and en the bas

"of the information we had concerning Subject which had br

provided by him (ay vouember) we have no

intormation relating to him.

A 9:10 Papun calledgain & said after searo

"there was no indication that he has bee

:at FB 1

out of the United states or that he is a member o

any particular political or subuersive group. He sta

that there was a some indication that he may have

been in cuba in 1959 while westill had an Embassy

there, and there was some information that he alleged!

uisited a night club. Mr. Papuh puinted out, howew

that this would have been entirely consistent with h

known actruities in the night club business, He sala

that the possibility of his being in cuba should be

considered with a "big question mark."

"I reminded Papien. that we had checked throught

Immigration am Service on the tourist card record

in the mexican Immigration in Neuvo Lorado and

That we had had a response that they were

unable. to develop. any information concerning his

departure on se ao sept

aper. and re-entry. on 3 Octob

---

## Page 3

3

11110693

I adused him... that we had not recered a respons

from a request to customs Service with regardt

such departure and entry. Mr. Papish stated that

the Bureau was looking into this matter and

woula keep.me..infermed. I indicated thatI

wauld.not press. the matter further with the custom

Service, He is to keep un informed."

742862

memo.

1-7-64. t0.CTA From Hoover.

FB:

mr.. carlos villa, 1450 coral way, miami furnuned

a letter.. on 1a-21-63. Letter nad been furwardedt

afriend of his, Jose Anterio Juan. Mr. Juan receried

letter from son in Cuba.

in lether

"It Is known here that Rubensen wa. here a

little less than a year ago visiting a mr. Pranski,

dealing in tourist articles

ownerofshops.on

Prado street

between Anima

and Trocadero

intermation

opposite the sevilla Boltmore into

Burean

develured nu

that Ruby

visitea there

ever visited Cuba, except an one

occasion in 1959 whor

briefly un a vacation trip.

G

i memo for James. Angletun

1-9-64 memo recerved

frum AmTouT 1. From John it, Sherwosa

Be No

1213-1125

Atachea 1s. translation of memo sent to carlos marquez

Sterling to gave a copy. to AmTOuT-l, On SAS/EDE

asset, who passed it on to us.

Sc. Evidio.

Pereira..... (Brigader of Giron)

informs

#hat

Ruby was in Havana a yr. ago. to see Praskin.

aInto .

reserved. by Brigadier of Brigade 2506

Evidia: Pereira.

•(Evidio B. periera Accosta,

OPOB

la march

201 - 298.242

$2027- Gral, Carrilo

Las Villas.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 4

SECHET

11110534

No sAs traces on Prastin

Later suggests. Bureau interulen Pererra

WHe is living at

8a1s4 and st, miami, Fla.

Includes. internew of. Pereira-by pB3.

SAS Dispatch from InWAvE.

Info recesued. tom AMsPELL

AmsPELl repurts the letter was sent airmall, pastmarke

25 Dee 1963 & sent to fet,tou more Isra-Juana

Barreiros.

Received 13 Jan 1963.

Allegation made by sister in laus of AmENt 1),

Graziella RUBIO y Rivera.

what is a Senstive Document Input Record.

Document Transter E CroN. Reference.

"sometme accund may 64 I was given @photographs

by a minister who I met through a mutual friend.

The photographs shows Ruby and orwald

Together.

100-300 - 017

0B C- 04902

17. Jan.68

PBI

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

9- memo datod... Nou a6, 1963

Document No. 1210-1126

11110795

fur

subject: Ruby.

By: Birch D. O'Neal.

chocked RID files on Tackeuby, atso known as

Leen. Rubenstein. Revealed. that John deed Gorman so was

investigated in 1951, 19528.1953. Paul Crouch aduised FBI

that Jack Rubensten," Director, joung communist league in

who@ould.be.reacned.through the National Office of ti

Textile workers! Unrun of. America, New Yurk

& his wife

marion Rubenstein, white might have into on Gorman.

o- memo.. Fur Chief, CI (IC6.)

2 DeC 1963 Subj: Jack Ruben

From Stephen C. Mullett, Jr. FOIA DoC. No 1212-1

p.

Reliable source reported that J. Rubenstein

born

in. 1905 Polana, resident of NoY., Wisitec

Israel.from 18 may. 1962 to

"7 June 1962 with

wife. minnie..

Il- same memo as (00 6) above: complete quate from letter

"The: Brigadier of Giron, Sr. Evididio Pereira, w

in constant communication with cuba, informs the cene

Delegate of the movieniento Patriotica Cuba Libre,...

news of great importance.

1. Notify the Pentagos of this fact: Ruby, the

assassin of oswald. was in. Havana a ye

ago. He is

fend and custumer ofcicitizen

---

## Page 6

SER

named Praskin, owner..or manager of a novelty shop t

tourists located between. Animas y Trocadero, Pasec

del prado, in front.. of the Hotel Seurlla."

"This in formation recelued in miami, asinoted a

the beginning of this mend 11099th, were received

by Brigadiet of Brigade 2506, Eudio Pererra, who

is ready to verify them. New York, 29 December 196

memo for Howver .. from Angleton- subj: Jack Ruby.

XAA2 -22818.

: 30. Jan 1964.. States that the Agency

has received a report frum a source to the effect that

Ruby was. in: HQuana in late 1962 or in early 1963.

Relates suidio Bernardo Pererra Acosta sturg.

location of Pereira. Suggests FBI Interview Peror

FBJ

Interuew of Pererra- 2-7-1964.

Evidio stuted he was a prisoner in cuba after B.CPP

Showed a letter dated.

12-3-63 frum Hawana contain,

the Ruby being in Is Cubastory. Pereira had no knowk

as to the original source of infu, Letter was from a

mambar.af.the Cuban.Redcross who he curresscrawi

See

NO

dispatch

attacheel 2p. bulletin & envelop a from Cuba.

Dispatch. to. Chief.S.AS. FrOM IMWAVE.

295

2/13/64

Ref: WAUE-1283, 29 January 1964.

"AmsPelL reports... the letter was sent airmail,

outmarkea 28 December 1943, anasent to a fictitous

---

## Page 7

11310697

no 201.

name: (Sra. Juana Barrerros) and receled in the

AMSPELL PO. Box 168, main station, miami, Florida.

AmspelL further reportod that the sender's name

no z0!

appearing. on the envelope (Alicia Cardoso)

is also false.. The letter was recered on 13 January

2. The correspondence from cuba referred to in

paragraph three of.. Reference was not obtarnable

according to AmsfeLh.. The latter stated the letter

was recerved. frum cuba bij airman, addressed to

AmLUNCH -1, who was nut willing to cooperate in

handing the letter over to AmspeLL. Reportedly the

information. contained in the letter reached odeNul,

who also asted the reciprents cooperation. The latter

delivered only a small portun of the letter to ODEN dY

where the in furmatien appealed, of which Amspell subm

the following resume, made by the recipient of the

letter:

(no ac1)

"Salomen Pratkins owned a tourist stere

located across the street from the Sevilla

Hotel, in Prado street in Havana, Ruby

was a habitual üisitor

at this sture

while. hestayed in Havana in 1962 ara

1963. Ruby flew to Havana from mexico

aty.."

3 Aluatached. a copy of stary releaved byAmspent on

29 Tan 1964 to wireservices, miami news.

---

## Page 8

SECRET ®

11110593

Cable- to mexico city la march 196%.

"meivin m. Belli, traveling to mexico.

FromiRichera..Helms

unit: DDP

CITE DIR

8** 5353

Date i8 mar cy.

5574

2-iFBI Repurt 4-6-64

..re radio.program@paulBetnel@ StanleyRo

p.3- "Bethel sad that "we," and when he said "we"

he was not speaking fur the citizens committee at that

point becaue they had to be checked out caretully

before "we" would ssue it at all -- but "we" had

been notrned by peopre where rudgment "we" trut

that Ruby had been in Cuba several times after the bree

in relations, and the only way that this man could

get in there, of course, was clandestinely.. He then asked

who.waula. be.interested in getting him into-cuba

clandestinely. Certainly nut friends of ours. He added

that this information was obtained from several suurce

p. 6

- Bethel stated. in later interunew by FBI that "Ruby trip

to Cuba might have ned gambling connections centered

around the. Hotel Capri, in. Havana, Cuba, whore

front man was supposed. to be bearge Raft, the move

actur... Is sources adulsed that Ruby halbeen in Cuba

either... two or three times, rubsequent to the break in

eatens in fraur 1960: One of the sourges whom he

---

## Page 9

10

SECRET

11110709

¡considered. relanie!" is Jose Lanuza. Bethel sa

Lanuza. coula furnah. into re the background uf

iLHo and of his efforts to infiltrate DRE.

Secondsource was Salvador Lew, knownas Dr.L

who is with a miami legal firm. Lew can be

reached through miami phone FR 1-5606.

Another suurce- De. Fernando Carandi, Miami.

1 Doc. Transter & cross Ref cara.

"Por Doc subj. repurted in cuntact James kelley le

and German burn wife Ingred. Ingrid iden as sou.

agent. Her husband James former usAF Intel offer.

Lowes were in cumpany of ruby and the oswalch

some 6 t08 weeks priur to assassination of pres.

201-289249

10BB. -21509

3 Sept 65

FBI Document

Doc. Transter. El Cross Fef.card...

"It wa understanding afsource that Garrisun

had been. conducting exhaustive search to locate

man named fou Dmare /ll suprused to nave

traveled to salveston, Texas. about time of assassination

there. net with ruby and ferrie.

088-82786

10 JUNE 6) FBI

---

## Page 10

11110702

Do transfer & cross Ref.

...sometime arouna may 64. I was given a

photogranto by a minister uho I met

through a mutual friend. The shutographs

shows ruby and oswald togethor."

FBI due. 1? Jan 1968.

meno. For FBI. fium Angleten 6-1967 FOIA 1a17-1

n Гаско

Royers talkec@ano.reset Agency.

Rusers, hasspoken @ Garrisun Estaff. "He has been to

by a member of Garrisun's staff that Garrison has def.

prouf that Ruby was once hospitalized in New orrec

That oswald wiltec him in the huspital, that they

or there engaged na. homosexual act, that they wer

caught, and that oswald was arrested.

¡ FeI repur t

sept 3, 1965

ee James kelley Luwe IS-I

On... August 26,1965 saso. source

stated that

James kelley howe acursed informant that he was a

former.intelligence.olficer in the us. Air force, and

that his German-burn ate, angria Lowe, nee Bernhaui

was a Souiet Agent. howe

indicated he. met nis wifi

in, Austria, in 1962 and subsequently marrica her on

Dallas, Texas on 1964l....

howe stated he & his wie

met who and Jack Ruby at

way's place of business sume. 6 t08 wks orior to the

assassination...

an Argut 31,1965

---

## Page 11

11110÷32

been arrered on Aug8, 1965-illegal. possession of

¡dangerous drugs. an sent.

1,1965 lowe refued

ito

a comment to FO]

under adurce of counsel.

SWAVE 1283=

CAble frum to miami dated 30 tom 64

1"29 Jan Bluestreak Edition Miami News carried

toll

news item titled "Ruby United Cuba-- Exiles Say,"

Jack Ruby, killer of President Kennedy's accurech assadin,

has uisited castrois cuba, exile grump here charged today.

Ruby. flew from menico City to Havana latter part Dec 3

on mexicana right, said spokesman fur Cuban DRE.

is organitation which fate be ....

"students said they

first learned of ruby's. Havana visit several weeks ago, but

arkyed mak,na any statement until complete check hid

seen made

with their sources on loland. Accurding to

junderground communications, Ruby stayed in Havana

until early Tannaryod, trequenting @ tourststore

uned by man named, Sulumon Prattina Store wa

located on El Prado across street from Seuilla Biltme

Hotel....

a- DRE had fint repur eu this to waus on la Jar

3- "Des uso alleged above was confirmedby

cuban exile (not identifed) who hack received

letters contening information on this matter.

Ware requested DeE oroyde driginal of

I'mimeograph bullet in & letters

plus.ident.ty

recrpients.t

senders. Pespite promise to do so,

---

