# 180-10145-10360

## Page 1

180-10145-10360

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT 30 August 1978

TP: Mr Ted Darby, CIA Security Officer, HSCA

FROM:

Office of Legislative Counsel

3381 House Annex #2

Central Intelligence Agency

2nd and D Street SW

Room 7 D 35

Washington. D.C. 20515

Washington, D.C. 20505

HSCA

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

INFORMATION

ACTION

LOAN

CONTROL NUMBER

DOC. DATE

RETENTION

XXXX

SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred)

30 August 1978, Original notes for Chuck Berk

#11172239-11112253

780x 55

Folder 2

CLASS.

Secret

-.

"ecs

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Date As SANITIZED

2003

19605

RECEIPT

SIGNATURE (achnowledging

receipt

• abcve

documents)

RETURN TO

DATE OF

RECEIPT

105. 3772B

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C.

20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BA

3 - CAMARY, OLG HOLD BACK

10145-10360

---

## Page 2

SECRET

BOX55

Folder 2

24 Deu63 7rmmi f Whetten to C/C1

aTtackea n.

youceto, cmisnl

pit-iat

dezined, chne

oty in Meyics and trelicding

summarisqle lelephone crita-

ept. Tis ina

the peyle preparing ttel fsiel rpunt

En uriting chis ws lup

mde certain comment andindeciged.

in a centano amrent pamagas,

becauoi the maked fait aleredito

call fnit. Thae Ithrighs ae

oud ti te e cee gor,

port codo wuitter t cntenil

1 and waanntinoor.di

to be slaed auteils the luigene,

fahn W hette,

11112233

G/wHt/3

SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Dato: AS SANITIZEI

0003

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Whette Repat

13 Decle3

Lad visites End pretens

Satunday (28 Segit63) ntertitio

fang tatia

no cente

3

11112240

wash re

"The name Lee Gowald

men, not see times

'at he who fittes 041959

samedeem deliveed by hind

same day long cable went to MiX Ste

giving background y hit tooking

mre info, My a sta indictent

---

## Page 4

SECRET

1Oci Mx cable rested patie.

2400t63-C14 Cables Nar

noting to patton 1it on o

up to cold compie phots

Naphor not receive i 22 No 603

"No chane words had it, mone

My Cist ofia produce info lite

this an us celigen cintaiting Soret

trequente, core crimenti

Raging in Americant

enter rotine; in end come

At Pre do parmatione

ut credible t deede whethe

I to whom it will be proos.

11112241

ClA bean't know cohat FBl ded

I info reputato i Same that

---

## Page 5

SECRET

FBI may have made local checks

mit own.

l... when money hito passed to cl stiff

on day posers aft the ason

ale went for the file

da week y acon. 27 called.

no, so net to lorete

? My st searched its tel lipes

Who mare not adital matines

abo Consected him to Calan Consulate

11112242

---

## Page 6

SECRET

responde to CiA's apiquee

stu passet it entire feein

wouls changed no thief t

I not simpt decity const

916.

11112243

routines after two wis

cals summ

cos perior-27 59p563-30063

2) seat -Ocall-man dohs about

vort got Odison

@ 4:05 P.M. Schra Duman Catho

to so office abut male

Amen ciga

@ 4:20p5a

= so. officalcall

Cranean

---

## Page 7

SECRET

ene son a Carlan Embasals

again until Out,; 1963 a tied

shu he did not anted Saee

i that day?

1OCH63D

10:31a.m

min call fas want

13

true name

306t63

14

17112244

attone # 0010960

vron

no specul rena tate

same di

Silor Durant He band

arreste at part 1 23 7201636,

mercan

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

Was to cristein that Doriald

von so le could wait in

Cilafils Swret vian

To date, the is no credite

information cA fils conce

ind appen to link tee

Dowald w/ the Catan gort

Mitre Cuban intelligend soui.

21112245

his action in his colla

Les addos when deise at

Croulate because tes had it.

Hand to splan wend he

Le cold not mange, meght

have been referin, to hierne

---

## Page 9

SECREL

18 Katin the to 131 Dept

!?

"all te fee could mus

certains: 1 211-0200

Hes soutatin traine.

in My apathied its

20

no mentin; Cilden enversation!

21-

2.%

11112246

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SEGRET

Thai to Tago, en

suy: Oper'/TYPIC/INDILATOR/A/!

nef: HHTA-3782, 179e4

AYI:

1 stilling info pim A/i che

11112247

in connetin a/ref:

al When JFK died "Dugusto"'

perorally came to Natimal

Lebration Bldy theld

reitis +/07fe09thtt

Henshunter te

utas

who mariana comprato,

as well as no porme agent

ta epore spiten, communi -

wang ang, lectine

commerci et aten

interstard cited mesen

nere chris Nebert

cultim

sep beaulfil

---

## Page 11

MADRID

3676

IN 3.4917

SECRET

AMLASH coMes

MADR 376 CApr. 65 IN38634?

Despiti repenter telcal to

auHtops-l fume, Olent Lengae

not able to tate to him upst

afternoons apie. The lion't

called Over although mescags

left soreposter. OUSPORT-!

renas detailed bels sotal

itat autops dad get angs

тому и сто о oTs.

2. Follo to chapnt report

94 appie meeting arente

Amlast -= Culieged Detach

11112248

androp fail must pripe

requested Rutal amback;

to san Glash and fron

W/KUBARK

---

## Page 12

Denie

successful usly

miles 2 hint hingeed the de

stied present final demandis

stilled it line: 10449921

vaulting scandal will make.

i final demand dos not produce

yare aclos

3 will repent all foreg

metiming IDEND as contair

It toget

---

## Page 13

SECRET

2939

Ned A Dir 1593z

1342

DIr

1415:30

KAPOK KEYWHY PBRUMEN ONSCAFU ALASH

2. Sal stated had been ente

w/ Ruback Is tims and is

Times had dranes relation-

last attempted contrethin

I that ke then agreed to

contact.. Sily state matinete

11112250

a friend con helped her set,

= Jam.

3. Subs spoke in same veri

"Nosition".

SECRET

---

## Page 14

7. Regula Porn The Pe 4

this midget to guine

o cocke and each neufiend

11112251

•CRET.

---

## Page 15

SECRET

Protoza Cable

2 9am64 MEX17613 IN 91160

12 Des (Plo nate attachinet

to HMMA 22604 gurg date

1 Du)

corders

B amy Proenge fres

because remark

to effect that sting Roa

note to Gom ne

ersa.......

witness to proenza culicion

7. Rot arte in inverala

11112252

4.

wir.

say diamosal kennes

by En bias peonnel

but not being liked a bont

5. No eviden its dined die

to samble op but crade. o

---

## Page 16

111122533

CREL

MEXIT625 3Jan64 (IN91936)

nel AM EX1 7615(0091178)

6) DIR 92203

1,

prepart that Preema

tried Its arene trad

to Haven to clem herself

but Amit as da receivel

impany infan treatinen

icewed tam" that tran Roy!

news she canes go to Certa

to Ahraighten matter but.

REFB prepared, request

Has reconside repurement

1 REF Band adorse. Phone

call almy lins para6

REF B might stell begood

ides.

---

