{180-10131-10326| (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassinatio System Date: 10/19/20
Identification ‘orm

Agency Inform ition

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: = 180-10131-10325

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014725

Document Info: mation

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: TOVAR, BERNARD HUGH
TO:

TITLE: DEPOSITION OF BERNARD HUGH TOVAR.

DATE: _ 06/29/1978
PAGES: 48

SUBJECTS : :
: CIA, METHODOLOGY
TOVAR, BERNARD HUGH, TES] IMONY BEFORE THE
COMMITTEE
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIO ), DEFECTION TO RUSSIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 03/26/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: — Box 5

v9.1 1

NW 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 1


1UF OcbaLt

ul
< f
zt &
fal e
el oa.
— aL
=! —
ol
ete &
8
>
2 ,
| ia *
oe
fe] Ey ‘
By) Hi
Q hel a
u
a] 4 2
By og 5g
n W i
3) oO i
ia a nN
. x
a eee re eee
ee ee el 4
&
¢
3
Z 3
8
@ e e :
: \ . z



AFRANCE:msl tur HcboHtzi L

ASSASSINATION OF JOHN F. KENNEDY

2 | swe
a Thursday, June 29, 1978
oon 4 freee
: s| U. S. House of Representatives,
6] John F. Kennedy Subcommittee of
? Select Committee on Assassination
8 | Washington, D. C.

i
Deposition of:
10 4 : BERNARD HUGH TOVAR

M1 ‘called for examination by staff counsel for the subcommittee,

12 pursuant to notice, in the o1'fices of House Annex II, Room 3370,

ig Becond and D.Streets, Southwest, Washington, D. C., beginning at

00 o'clock p.m., before Albert Joseph LaFrance, :a Notary Public

fin and for the District of Columbia, when were present on behalf

Een pse ee Leeann at eae eter eee eg eet ses ~ Seaegeeee ne ent steerable eee sae #uear ie eeu

of the respective parties:

For the Subcommittee:

MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, ESQ. Staff Counsel

ELIZABETH WOLF
For the Deponent:

(There was~representaticn by counsel)

|
I
{
as
H
i

NW 48331 Docta!32277210 Page 3 TRE CLAOET


=

rey
8

i
2 |

as ii

i

48331 Doctd:52277210 Page 4 Thp CEPOET

Bernard Hugh Tovar. i

TU anys (4 2

TESTIMON’ OF HUGH TOVAR
Mr. Goldsmith. State your name for the record.

Mr. Tovar. I sign my name B. Hugh. My full name is i

Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Tovar, my name is Michael Goldsmith, |
Senator Staff Counsel of the Select Committee on Assassinations:

; : 1
I have-lbeen designated by ‘:he Committee to take your deposition}

today. You are here voluni:arily today?

Mr. Tovar. Yes. .

Mr. Goldsmith. You have the right to have counsel present.
Do you waive that rigkt? , :

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have ‘ou read ‘a copy of the Committee's i
supporting resolution? re ere eee

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Have vou had a chance to read Rule Number
42

Mr. Tovar. I have. \

Mr. Goldsmith. ‘The Committee rules provide for the tran-

script of ‘a deposition to he made available to a witness and

actually be delivered for :etention by any witness that. gives :
the Committee a statement. However, by virtue of the arrange- i

i
ment that the Committee has; worked out with the CIA, the Agency;

has asked us to request Agency employees testifying before us ,;
: i
to waive the right actually to receive a copy of the transcript,


x

8

2
u

rn
~

2
ry

NW 48331 DocId:

a. TAP <ErerT

iur OCUALI

The reason for. that is because the transcript frequently
will contain classified information and the Agency prefers for
that information to be kept in our secure area here. -So I
would “Vike to ask you to waive your right to receive a copy of
your statement but in so doing, I want to assure you that you |

will be given a right to raview.the transcript for accuracy, ,

o make comment upon it and if necessary, to give an additional
statement.

Mr. Tovar. I agree.

Mr. Goldsmith. I would like to inform you that the court |
reporter will provide: you vith a transcript and the transcript

will be certified by the reporter as a complete, accurate and

true record of all the tes:imony that you give here today.
Now, you are employed by the CIA, is that’ correct?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

i
!
|

Mr. Goldsmith. I had given you earlier a copy of a letter’
dated 23 March 1978 from M:. Carlucci to the Chairman of this
Committee. Have you had a chance to read that Tae

Mr. Tovar. I have.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand it?

Mr. Tovar. I understand it.

Mr. Goldsmith. fhen { think we are ready to proceed to

the substance of the questioning. What is your present position

with the .CIA?

Mr. Tovar. I am the vhief of the Counterintelligence


(Ur wevmel

A 4 .
|
: i Staff of the Directorate 0: Operations.
i Z Mr. Goidsmith. How long have you been working in that |
: capacity? Hl
@ 4] Mr. Tovar, Ever since: a year ago April. : :
5 Mr. Goldsmith. How long have you been working with the
i
6 | Agency?
7 Mr. Tovar. Thirty years.
8

Mr. Goldsmith. What was your assignement prior to becom-
ing Chief of the CI Staff?

: ‘
Mr. Tovar. I was recently returned from overseas where I

was Station Chief in and three years before that,

Chief of the Station in Lacs.

Mr. Goldsmith. Prior to assuming your position as Chief

~of-the Cl Staff had you hat. extensive experience in the area of!
counterintelligence?
Mr. Tovar. No, not perticularly. We don't as a rule

specialize. We are normally generalists. I do not consider

13 | myself a counterintelligence expert.

|
|
|
{
i

9 { Mr. Goldsmith. During the years 1959 to '63 what position,
20 did you occupy with the Agency?
a1 Mr. Tovar. In 1959 I was Chief of Station in
| sce
: 21 : i
-@ 3 | In 1920, I came back znd I was originally Deputy Chief and!
py] then Chief of the Branch ir. Far East. Division which controls

1
: Hy
| |
| . |
2g % operations in the Phillipires, Malaysia,Indonesia, Australia,- {
H

NW 48331 poorals2277220 Page 6 TAH ClPRET


26

25

NW.48331  Docld:42277210 Page 7 TAD REPOtT

33 |

UP? OLALI

New Zealand, and Oceania. That was until 1964.
Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had a chance to review CIA
document number 1817 and the pages that follow it?

i
i
Mr. Tovar. Yes, I have read these. I had not read these.!

They were released by one of my subordinates, Mr. Friedlander. |

Mr. Goldsmith. Are you telling us that today is the first]
chance you had to read them?

Mr. Tovar. I did not read. them this time. They went to
you, to the Committee but < have since read them.

Mr. Goldsmith. They were prepared by whom?

Mr. Tovar. Jack Friedlander, Chief of Operations. They
were signed by him, not prepared by him. “they would have been

originated probably by Mr. Kowalski or Mr. Bradley, I am not H

sure which, I think Kowalski almost certainly.
Mr. Goldsmith. The memorandum which is labeled CIA No.

1817 was a response by thé Agency to an inquiry by the

Committee as to whether it was standard operating procedure for
the Agency to debrief what in effect were repatriated defectors
I believe it is fair to sav by way of summary that the memo
says that it was not in fact standard operating procedure
during the years 1959 to 'ti3 to debrief such individuals. Is

that correct?

Mr. Tovar. Insofar as I understand it. My knowledge is

limited to what I see here before me in the paper. During this:

period in question I was not involved, so I didn't know what


tur Hcvali

the current policy was then.

What I have been told since by those. who should know is
that there was no policy as set: forth here.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do: yon know what the criteria were for

4 selecting the 117 individuals whose files were reviewed? i
é Mr. Tovar. No. I th:nk someone mentioned the other day
7. that the names were incorporated in a memorandum I think ori-

8 ginionally by the FBI but’ :: would not certify to that.
oY Mr. Goldsmith. Mr. Tovar, since you have no direct
‘0

knowledge as to the manner in which this memo was prepared and,j
. {
for example, you don't know the criteria that was used for !

i2 1 choosing these 117 people, I am not going to ask you questions

pertaining to that documeni:. .I would like to request that you

communicate with the Office of Legislative Counsel at the

Agency and tell them the individual who was involved in the

i
|
!
|
i
|
|
i
i

actual direct. preparation of the document so that I could spend

some time with him. :

Mr. Tovar. The document, of course, is over my signature,j|
19 so I stand behind the document. I am responsible for what

20 | Was said there. If it is .ncorrect then I am incorrect in

i
rd

i
Mr. Goldsmith. JI wan: to ask you some questions about the;
z |

21 leeting that document out. I have no personal first hand mney

: 2 i ledge of the research he did to arrive at the conclusion. here :
-@ 3 | which he presented to me and I éndorsed. I am prepared to stand

| behind it but I will give :ou his name. H

2

i
i
1

TAP SECRET


s

wa
u

2
ry

tur OLLAE I 7

document. CIA no. 1818 indicates that CI Staff has completed a

“review of the files of 117 US persons who had "defected" ‘to

the USSR between 1959 and ‘63 and since returned to the United
States. Is that correct? '58 to '63?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I wou'.d like you to review the statement
under the name Thomas Morr:.dian.M-O-R-R-I-D-I-A-N. While you
read that paragraph, I wil:. state for the record thst the way
the memo is set forth it indicates that it was not standard
operating procedure to deb::ief such individuals, that of 117
people whose files were reviewed only ten were debriefed.
Then it proceeds to list the ten individuals who in fact were
debriefed.

I have now requested lir, Tovar to read the first summary
which is right next to the name of the first person who was
debriefed.

Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.

Mr. Goldsmith. When did that individual defect?

Mr. Tovar. 1947 is-the:year’heiwent tothe. USSR. I
assume that-is.the year he defected, if that is the term.

Mr. Goldsmith. So that in fact that individual was not
someone who defected between 1958 and 1963?

Mr. Tovar. That is correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let us: look at the next individual under

B,. Joseph Marshall.

_ RW 48331 a HS Page 9 TAD QEAOET

i
i
|



1Ur SEUREL _

Yes sir.

Mr. Tovar.
= 2| Mr. Goldsmith. When «ia Mr. Marshall defect?
3 Mr, Tovar. It is not clear. He was born in the US in
K ) : 1897, He said he was employed in Hawaii in 1921. There is no

5] indication whence he went 1:0 the USSR.

6 | Mr. Goldsmith. There :.s no indication he defected between

te "58 and '63?

a Mr. Tovar.
i
9
|
10
|
q
11 | Would you please
12 | vidual defected?
\
e is | Mr. Tovar.
{
: 14 |
i
is 4
i
i
|

™58 and '63?

Mr. Tovar.

No, He was arrested by the Soviets in 1945.

Conceivably he might have defected after that.
Mr. Goldsmith. The letter "C", Tommaro S-G-0-V-I-0.

read that section and tell us when this indi- |

Again, he went to the USSR with his parents

in the 1930s.- No indication when he defected. He left the

USSR in 1960. No way of telling.

Mr. Goldsmith. This individual: did not defect between

At last we: have no indication he did. One

19 | Would assume to the contrary.

20 Mr. Goldsmith. Lettez "D", Mary Mackler,.will you please

2 read the first summary and tell us when she defected?

2 il Mr. Tovar.

There is ro indication when she defected.

+3] She went to the USSR with Ler parents in 1931. Sometime after,|

2 married a Soviet. -

NW 48331 DocId!'32277210 Page 10

ac if Mr. Goldsmith. Again, no indication she defected between ;

TAD CECDET

i
1



tur HevAL!

"58 and '63?

‘ Mr. Tovar. No.
y
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Would you look at letter "E". Sonia and |
e : Fred A-S-I-N-I-A-N. When did they defect?
5 |

Mr. Tovar. They renounced their US citizenship in 1948. |

6 | So I assume that is the operative year.
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Will :you look atthe letter "F" now?
8 Mr. Tovar. Jack Kuralski.

Mr. Goldsmith. When id he defect?

i
10 i Mr. Tovar. He recoun:ed his US citizenship in '34 and
i

1 departed USSR I assume in 1934.
12 | Mr. Goldsmith. The point I am trying to make is that the

memo responding to the Comaittee's inquiry makes reference to ‘

ten individuals who defected between the years '58 and '63.
Ttathen proceed to provide us with ten names. But in fact,

if we continue to look through the list we will see that seven

17 | of the ten individuals did not defect during that time period.

3 Some of them did return ducing that time period.

wy Mr. Tovar. And were iebriefed.

20 Mr. Goldsmith. and were débriefed. i H
cia Mr. Tovar. aL: :

2 i Mr. Goldsmith. Of th2 ten, perhaps three or four returned

;

73.) during the relevant time p2riod. I asked those questions

rs
~

mainly to draw your attention to the fact that the response

given. was not really --

NW 48331 Doctd:42277210 Page 11 Thp REP RET


{Ur wLUNE'

Mr. Tovar. -- precisely what you wanted?
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes,

Mr. Tovar. I don't know the answer to that. I would : i

assume that the criteria they applied here as best they could
was when did he defect, when did he return, was he debriefed

or contacted? In some cases they hit one out of three, in

other cases two out of three. I think they were giving the
best correlation with your criteria that they could.

!
|
!
Mr. Goldsmith. JI understand that. My point might be then,

that the introductory sect:.on should not have stated that these!
were people in 1958 and '6:; when in fact they were not. i
1
Mr, Tovar. You are right. That is an incorrect statement,

Is your requesting memo here? That is not a very good state-

1
i
1
ment, Hl

Mr. Goldsmith. Here is the letter dated April 6, 1978 i
ft
which I show you just for your information to show you what the}

Committee was requesting fom the Agency. ff you will look

1a | under number two. i

19 Mr. Tovar. Then this would appear to correlate with that.

20 | You asked to indicate wheter the AGency from '58 to '63 }

21 interviewed or debriefed fermer American defectors. So, the

2 il time they defected is not the operative consideration.

3 | Mr. Goldsmith. No, it. was not. :
i
14 | Mr. Tovar. The time cf the debriefing -- i
\ '
2s f Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, that would be the focus. :

’
u

NW 48331 pocaee aie Page 12 THe SECRET ‘


RW 48331 eora 2277210 Page 13 THD Greer

ivr HLoKs I u

Mr. Tovar. So these would be at. least consistent with that.
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, hat is true. I would like also for
purposes of further clarif:.cation, to have you.read the letter i
dated May 12, 1978 startiny with the second full paragraph.
It is not ‘numbered. ©

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. I show you that only for your background
purposes, not to ask you any questions about it. In any event,

I would appreciate having t:he name of the individual who

prepared the memo passed a..ong to the Office of the Legislative

Counsel.

Mr. Tovar. Yes sir.
Mr. Goldsmith. The response that was provided to the |
Committee indicates that «:he CIA had no standard precedure for!
debriefing returning US de:iectors. What was the basis for that|
policy or actually for the absence of the policy?
Mr. Tovar. I don't know. I can speculate only -- not
having been there and not having any involvement -- I don't
know what mentality of those in charge was at that time.
Mr. Goldsmith. What vould your specilation be?
Mr. Tovar. I would speculate that the contact with and

debriefing, in effect the supervision of-Americans in that

category would be FBI's prerogative and the Agency as a rule

|

'

|

would not have had any bas:.c interest or reason to be involved:!
|
unless there were a specif:.c counterintelligence concern. i
{


33

ers

as

NW 48331 Baciaseayosio Page 14 THe SECRET : _

tur OLvaLi

12

Mr. Goldsmith. Does he Agency today have a policy of,
as a matter of routine ope::ating procedure, debriefing return-
ing defectors?

Mr. Tovar. None that I am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. Again. would you say you relied on the !
FBI to conduct those interviews?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is there any coordination between the !
Agency and the FBI so that the Bureau is informed when someone
in fact is returning? {

Mr. Tovar. On Americin defectors, the type you are speak-!
ing of here? : '

Mr. Goldsmith. An American defector who is repatriated. |

Mr. Tovar. I know of no case where they would be

interested in the subject. I can't say there is a procedure
in being. Knowing the way we relate to the FBI, if we knew of

H
if
a case of returning Americans, Say we learned it from an i
{
1
i

overseas station and it -seeméd of interest, we would probably

refer it directly to the FI by letter. {
!
I am speculating here because I know of no case in point.

Mr. Goldsmith. There is no standard procedure for contact+
ingthe Bureau and informiny them of a returning defector?

Mr. Tovar. Not that °: am aware of.

Mr. Goldsmith. You would be the person who would be aware’

of such a procedure?


tUP SURE i 13

\ Mr. Tovar. Berween tie Soviet-East European Division and
2 | cI Staff we should be awar2 of it. The two were most primarily

concerned with the USSR. [ think one or the other-of us would

inform the Bureau. This is not our primary concern: The

5} Americans, even when they have been naughty boys, having gone

|
6 | to USSR and decided to return, we still don't have necessarily

7 | a professional interest in that type of person.

a] Mr. Goldsmith. What is the responsibility of the CI staff

within the CIA?

ag Mr. Tovar. In a coup!.e of sentences it is a little

114 @ifficult. I will tell you what we do. The CI Staff has two :
i

12 | principal areas of activit:. We are first of all a staff. |

| :

: 13] Are you familiar with the staff as opposed to the division? |

e i i

Mr. Goldsmith. No, I am not. ee

Mr. Tovar. You have seen the table of organization of

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. :

18 Mr. Tovar. You know vyenerally how we are organized? -
H
19 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. H
|
20 | Mr. Tovar. The main set of components of the Directorate

21 | is divisions and staffs. "he divisions operate a function over+

2 | Seas. We-are staff and that is in the military sense we Suppor
1

the Directorat and we support the Director, we suppor one

um | another in an advisory capacity and in various ways. So, we

are not an operating component. We don't run spies. .We have

>
ry

i

eae soil] ara bavasio] wanes TAD QEPOLTr .



NW 48331 pocra:42277210 Page 16 TAB QEARET

aur oLURE I 44
i
a lot of activities which impact on operations but we are not in

the true sense of the term an operating element. j

So, having said that, the primary field of activity for |
the CI Staff is research and analysis, and then the other, |
i
what we refer to as operat:.ons coordination. Now, that is sort

of the term which ‘does not -- research’and analysi8: is clear.

We examine and analyze cases, essentially cases. We are not

scrutinizing people. We a::e looking at intelligence operations
old and current, primarily things that are not terribly
current. We don't tend to follow current operations in the
analytic sense. We take o!.d casés and look them over to see
if mistakes were made, to see ifve can derive lesssons from
mistakes made in the past. We:publish papers for the Agency's

community at. Large: all-in the R&A field.:. ...

On the! other::side we <unction in the sense of a true staff,

zl ae

We keep cur fingers on the activity of the Directorate overseas
We monitor what they are doing, not in the sense of being
spooky but we simply read -:he correspondence. We are given
normal distribution of most: correspondence coming hack from
overseas. We keep a hand on the pulse of counterintelligence

activities abroad.

To do this, we obviously have to have reasonable currency

on operational activity ac::oss the board. So, we are generally

aware of the operational patterns of activity that prevail in

various overseas stations. On that basis we are in a position

i
i
|
i
i
i
u
i


ivr SLRLl 1s

to advise the DDO or Direc::orate as to the level of performance;

the kind of activity conducted, the quality, the proper or

improper degree of emphasi:

@ 4 of DDO.

s| Mr. Goldsmith. Is your concentration oriented towards

We maintain an overview on behalf

6 | counterintelligence threats: of a foreign nature?

Mr. Tovar. Yes, totaily.

Mr. Goldsmith. You would not be concerned at all with

Mr. Tovar. None whatsoever.

|

|

y

i

| counterintelligence threats; domestically?

i

4

| Mr. Goldsmith. Is it correct to say that would be the
q

| responsibility of the Bureau?

Mr. Tovar. Absolutely.

14—|-—--———-Mx.- Gol dsmith.—Now;—l.ee-Harvey Oswald returned from the

u

i

Soviet Union in 1962. While in the Sovietion Union he worked
1

as a worker in a radio factory. Upon his return I imagine there.
i

:17 || was someone concerned about: his being a counterintelligence

13 threat. Is it fair to say, and I do not want to ask you leading

i
20 the responsibility of the Fureau rather than the Agency upon

19 questions but: would it be j‘air to say that would be more

his actual return?

Mr. Tovar. Yes, the «uestion whether or not he was, let

us say, a counterintelligerce threat. i

Mr. Goldsmith. KGB acjent?

Mr. Tovar. That would be a Bureau concern, no question

ww 48331 pocra:42277210 Page 17 TAR QEPRET i:


tur HtuKei 16

: | about that. : |
2 Mr. Goldsmith. However, would the Agency make any effort
3 to interview Osald while Oswald was entroute from the Soviet i
‘e@ : | Union to the United States’ |
5 | Mr. Tovar. You are speaking of what the Agency might have|
6 | done in '63 or '62? |
{ 1
7| Mr. Goldsmith. ‘62. 1
7
{

; 1

Mr. Tovar. Again, we are speculating concerning the i

i

intelligence of thé men who were in charge then. Today I

would like to think we woud be interested in what he is doing.j
i

At the time’ I don't know. I would think, why not. On the

other hand, I couldn't say they would or should be interested. i

It was not their primary p:ecise prerogative. I think if they

a

i
{
i
could, as I assume they did, the Bureau would discharge its i
ect
responsibilities: vis-a-vis any American of questionable i

i

propensity, I should think they would be deferring to the i
i

Bureau.

Mr. Goldsmith. That would be the aspect of Oswald where |
19 | there was a concern taht he posed a counterintelligence threat.
20 | What about the fact that Oswald may have had positive intelli-
21 | gence information that wou..d have been helpful to the Agency?

22 || That would not be within the jurisdiction of the Bureau?

3 | Mr. Tovar. I think in that context it might have been

appropriate for the Agency. if the assumed the point you made, :

ae

i
i

to seek an interview with him, I think the appropriate t
. t

NW 46331 pocra‘aa77210 Page 18 TAD CEPRET



26 |

a

NW 48331 Dootd: 42277210 ies: 19 TRE ROCRET

3]

tur Pcuacl -
vehicle for that would have been the Domestic Contact Division
which I think handled most of the contacts referred to in this
memorandum. ‘

Mr. Goldsmith, What is the function of the Domestic
Contact Division? — |

Mr. Tovar. They are ::esponsible for intelligence that
can be checked properly andi legally in the United States *:::
normally through American lusinessmen or American persons and
nonofficials who travel ab:coad and acquire intelligence of
interest. This is not jus: USSR. It could be any other
country. Their primary field of activity is to contact and H
debrief on a vluntary basis, if they so choose to respond,
Americans who return from overseas.

Mr. Goldsmith. I notice that the Committee's inquiry
concerning the CI's policy as to returning American defectors

was routed to your staff, (I Staff. When the memo was prepared:

'
i]
by the CI Staff for the Committee, was it done with the thought!

of representing the éntire agency or just the CI Staff?
Mr. Tovar. It is difficult for us to presume to speak for,
the entire Agency. I thin on this matter we are speaking for

the Directorate of Operations, not for the entire Agency.

Mr. Goldsmith. Fine. That is really the area with which
I was concerned anyway, Directorate of Operations. !

Mr. Tovar. The only ther element of the Directorate of ;
Operations that would be of an interest in this type of thing,

which might be construed a3; having an interest in this type i



fur wcenes 1s

of activity, would be the SC Division. On this I think the

i
3 | CI staff could be considered as speaking for the Directorate.
‘ : Mr. Goldsmith. Is the Domestic Contact Division part of
e 5 | the CI Staff?
i i Mr. Tovar. No, part of the Directorate of Operations.
i Mr. Goldsmith. The response of the Agency dated April \
a| 20, 1978, which appears in CIA Number 1818, indicates that i
8
; contact seems to be based on opportunity and circumstance.

Then it goes on to-say only ten of the 117 persons have had

any contact with CIA. Woui.d it be possible for you to go into }

more dtail on what is meani. by opportunity and circumstance? f

Mr. Tovar. In the ase:cne of a policy, of a guideline, a
t
i

procedure, internal instruction which says you will debrief

a

: i
Americans who return from having resided in the USSR, in the :

absence of that, this thing is left to chance obviously. I 1

i

cannot explain to you-how the names of these 11 passed the desk
: ‘

t

of whoever was in charge at. the time, but assuming they did,

| my guess, and it is mally only a guess, would be that the
" ‘person who read that, whatever document it was, would say, i
Se “Hmmph! He looks like he might’ be interesting", and perhaps |
- i would then get in contact with CCD and suggest if they get in |
“o : | contact with a person, let us say he is known to be living in i
cs . New York, suggest that they might want to seek out his Location!
is j and if possible interview him. : i
Q 3s i i
:

NW 48331 Doola:'32277210 Page 20 TAP CEPRET

J


Ur PeUHe! 19

i I think it would be a matter of chance in-the sense that

"

the analyst or whoever it was who reviewed that document, might
react, and yet he or she m.ght not, too, depending on how they
woke up that morning. It :.s sheer whimsy.

5 Mr. Goldsmith. Let me explain to you why the question

6 | whether or not it was standard operating procedure to debrief

returning defectors is important to the Committee. Since

a | the assassination of the P:-esident, there has arisen a group of,
. 1

|
researchers who have reviewed the Warren Commission Report and j

-have reviewed releases made under the Freedom of Information |

W Act by the CIA and the FBI. i
12 | Having reviewed these materials the argument has been made|

that Oswald received unusual treatment at the hands of the CIA.)

One example of this unusua: treatment is that there is no i

record of Oswald having been debriefed by the CIA upon his

| return. For that reason, ‘ve are focusing on this issue. Is

there any way you can give us guidance on how to respond to i

that question?

Mr. Tovar. I can't becuase I am sphculating every step

o
Sepeteneuaaay

20 | along. the way. I would hesitate to say more than Oswald

at simply didn't connect with whoever happened to be looking --

i
22 1 let us assume his name appzared. Was his namde in the list?
| '
33 | Mr. Goldsmith. No. f[hat is the list of people who were |
} debriefed.
|

ry
~

Mr. Tovar. One hundr2d seventeen?

MW 48331 Docta:42277210 Page 21 Thp RECOET


tur OCURcL 7

Mr. Goldsmith. I haven't seen the list of 117 people.

Mr. Tovar. What is tiis?

Mr. Goldsmith. That is a list of 350 odd people I was
going to ask you about. However, since you don't have knowledge

of the 117, I am not going to ask -ou about them.

ne: Mr. Tovar. If Oswald's name was on the list, I can't
{
explain why he might not have been contacted. Maybe he didn't

i appear attractive or interesting enough. I don't know what |

information might. have bee: given with these names on the list,|
such as a memo from the FBI or State Department, whoever had |
originated it, what they siid that would have titilated the
analyst who might have see it that would have elicited a |

response on the part of th: analyst who would say "Ah, let us

look into this further." i
Mr. Goldsmith. In pacticular, a lot of focus has been

given to Mr. Robert Edward Webster, who appears in CIA Number

|

18) and returned at approximat2ly the same time that Oswald did and

1820 who defected approximately the same time that Oswald did

19 | who was debried by the CIA for two weeks in Virginia. |
20 Mr. Tovar. I didn't ‘now that he was. It doesn't say so
21 here.

Mr. Goldsmith. That ioes not indicate the extend of the

debriefing. That information was obtained independently by

2 this Committee.

i

H

|

|

i

\

i

1

i

i

Mr. Tovar. The name :neans nothing to me so I can't -i !
: {

‘

i

H
i
i

NW 48331 DocId: 32277210 Page 22 Tap SECRET


NW 48331 poctass2277210 Page 23 TAD CEPOoCT _

rey

iU? HEGRE! 21

enlighten you on it.

Mr. Goldsmith. ‘Does <he CIA have any affiliation with
organizations in the Unitei States who might be responsible for;
debriefing someone?

Mr. Tovar. Not that { am aware of. i

Mr. Goldsmith. -In other words, if anyone is going to be

debriefed it would be by the Domestic Contact Division?

Mr. Tovar. In the in:elligence sense. In the sense of

elucidation of intelligence, DCD would do it. A different type
, H

of inquiry, personal inves::igation, the Office of Security, on
whoever itsworks through, would be the aa j

The one we are talkiny about, DCD is the only organization)
I know of. I can visualize a circumstance under which operating
components might seek out an individual or might have in times |
past but I can't think of a case in point in my own recollec-

tion. I would say, given -:he strictures on our operating in

the United States, we would rely upon DCD to do it if they had

any positive intelligence connotation.

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. fe

Mr. Tovar. It is the division level of the Directorate.

[y think Thad;

: i
better defer to the other people on that. That is roughly where


H
i

48331 poora:2277210 Page 24 The QECRIT

sur OLUALE

4

22

it stands. They certainly would not have interest in debrief- |
ing defectors that I am awire of.
i Mr. Goldsmith. In any event, for the purposes of summary,
there is today no standard operating procedure of interviewing
returning defectors?
Mr. Tovar. Right, insofar as I am aware, there is none.
Mx. Goldsmith. There is no standard operating procedure
between the Bureau and the CIA which would coordinate any effort

!
: !
to contact returning defec‘:ors and share information?
Mr. Tovar. None that I am aware of.
{
Mr. Goldsmith. Turning to another area which I would like}

togt into briefly, would vou define what a 201 file is?

Mr. Tovar. A 201 file: is a file or files -- it could be
several volumes to it -- which relates to an individual. It .

might pose a dicotomy, a 20:1 file and project file. A project

file might deal with an act:ivity, say collection operations in

Timbucktu, a broad scale o:' activity involving several numbers
of people, there might be several 201 files, A, B, C, who were
associates in that project. The 201 file would be on the

individual himself. : !

Mr. Goldsmith. Ti would contain primarily biographic

information?
Mr. Tovar. No. It would contain a much vaster -- some |

of them might contain one sheet of paper with name, rank and

date of birth. But if the association with him developed and


(UP BLUAEI

f : 23

became more extensive, it :night contain a considerable amount

i
2 of information. If he became involved with this ope-ation it
2] might include operational :naterial, intelligence operations 4
e@ 7 as well, all part of the 2)1 complex.
5] The point I am making is that it is an individual file
é| as opposed to an activity file.
? Mr. Goldsmith. If you.wanted to learn about the operations
a that an individual was involved in, would you go to his 201
91 file or to his operations file?

Mr. Tovar. I would g» to the 201 file first. There might!

3

|
!
i
!
n not be an operations file. In fact, in the vast majority of }
12 | the 201 cases there are no operational files because there is
. 3 | no hard and fast rule on wien you open a 201 file or who opens
la] a 201 file.

If I, for example, am overseas and I become interested in

j
4
16} a person who looks to me ti have considerable promise from the
i
i
{

. operational standpoint, say a local foreign type, I might give
1a my own local checks, I might examine my own files to see if I

know anything about him. ‘Then I say to headquarters “here is

20 Joe Doe. He is interestiny to me for.these reasons. Will you |

21 please check against headgiarters records.and other agencies t
7 1
l and let me know if you have anything of interest on him." H

I might not ask for a 201 file. Headquarters might then,

24 | because they thought he was interesting, open a 201 file.

2s fi Conversely, I might likewise say this looks terribly interest-

{ ~

NW 46331 ora ser Page 25 Thp OLPRET


IUP debAEI 7

|
i i
: | ing Please open a 201 file and give me all of the information i

2 you can collect on him."
3] Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that the fact. that someone
i
+, q
e ‘| has a 201 file does not mean at all that the individual was
5

involved in any operations of the Agency. If youwanted toget

Uy 201 file and operations fi:.e? ’

H
i
|
: |
é information of an operational nature, would you go both to the j
3 Mr. Tovar. Assuming --here was information of an opera~. !

i

tional nsture?

10 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. is
n | Mr. Tovar. Yes, indeed we would. '
12 Mr. Goldsmith. If someone is an agent of the CIA -- I
iz | am not referring now to case officers or staff agents -- some- |

@ | |

is | one is a field agent for the Agency, would that fact be indi-

cated in the 201 file?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. In the Directorate of Operations someone {|

might open up a 201 file on an individual if the person was
19 of a potential positive int:elligence significance? I
20 Mr. Tovar, Or counterintelligence, either one. '

Mr. Goldsmith. That was going to be my question. The |
CI Staff in particular, when would you have occasion to open a
201 file? !

24 i Mr. Tovar. CI staff would not necessarily be the only one!

2g f to open a 201 file. In the case of a person of CI interest, i

a

NW 48331 poorasen77210 Page 26 THD CEPOLT

i
i
|


NW 48331 pocta:52277210, Page 27 TAD QEePocrT

1UP OeuRti 25

|

a field station might have a counter-person I described earlier|
and become interested in him because he did have some CI
attraction or interest. The station itself or the division would
open the 201 file. It wou.d not be us. The CI Staff as a rule

is not involved in that type of thing.

At this stage of the yame since we are not operating and

we are not out soliciting new contacts, we are not working in

T
that sense of the term, we don't to my knowledge originate 201
files.

Mr. Goldsmith. The C’: Staff does not open up 201 files?

Mr. Tovar. There is no reason that we couldn't.
Mr. Goldsmith. As a pratical matter? ~
Mr. Tovar. As practical matter it does not work that way. |

Our research is primarily :iocused upon’ established cases, cases

that may:even be dead, terminated, or dormant, or even current
in certain cases, but as a .tule not very many! 201 file is
opened by someone else. We may examine those files and review :
them. We do review other activities. But the 201 file would
be in existence. They.whould not be created by ourselves.

In former days when C:: Staff files were segregated from

therest of the Directorate it might have been different. I

don't: know.
Mr. Goldsmith. When was that?
Mr. Tovar. Say prior to 1974, 1957. Today our foles are

integrated in the files of the Directorate or it is in the i



tur OcUnct -

process of being integrated. We have been working on this.

: | This is one of our major f:.nal exercises in the past two or

a! three years to make sure, when you go to the central files and i
e s| xesearch a name, if there 1.8 something in the CI Staff reposi-

3 tory that will turn up when you are making a check of the

6 | index.

|
|
1
|
i
|
Mr. Goldsmith. Will nost 201 files be open as a result
1

8 | information coming into headquarters. from the field, one of
$ | the field stations?

4 Mr. Tovar. Yes, the vast majority. In years before when |
'

W | they has such programs as !H Chaos, I assumed they opened 201

2 | files of their own.
e iz] °° Me. Goldsmith. What is that?
i

ty Mr. Tovar. MH Chaos-program?-———-_---—--— cieererrrete

Mr. Goldsmith. For the record, will you indicate what tha:

16 1 program is?

a

7 ; Mr. Tovar. I frankly would rather not becuase I don't

13 know the precise definition of the program. It was a program
19 | which has been described ir. the press as domestic surveillance.
29 | Whether that is the correct: proper designation, I don't know.
21 Our CI Staff does not normally open a 201 file. We don't have

22 | occasion to,

34 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what the term CI/SIG stands

74 | for?

i
Mr. Tovar. Counter Intelligence/Special Investigative 1
|

NW 48331 vocta:ba277220 Page 28 THe § SEPRET ‘


(ur O2LALi 27
|

: Group, I think it is. Investigative or investigations, I don't!

know which.

rey

3 Mr. Goldsmith. Is that group still in existence today?
|
q |
5 4 1. Mr. Tovar. No.
5] Mr. Goldsmith. When iid it go out of existence?

6 | Mr. Tovar. I don't kiow exactly. Before my time. I
7 think it ended in '73, '74,.'75. I am not sure.

a] Mr. Goldsmith. Do yo: know what the function of that |

1
group was? . !
i

Mr. Tovar. Only in a very vague sort of way. I have heard

- about it, it was the inves:igative group in the CI Staff that

{
4
1
i

12 investigated whatever the °I Staff did in those days. I can't
i

13 | speak to that with any first hand knowledge.. I know some things

e@ is { they did but I would be hesitant to make a general definition
is of their function. Hl
‘6 | Mr. Goldsmith. Do yo1 know whether the function of that
aaa

i
7 group'was to investigate Ajency employees who were suspected |
of having been penetrated?

19 | Mr. Tovar. I think, because I have seen nothing in writing
!
' on the subject, but I have been given to understand that was one
of their functions in the context of their responsibilities ‘

1 that was included. But I am no authority on the subject. H

fa 2i
@o 3! Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether CI/SIG would have !
ed ee : ‘
| : :
i |) occasion to open a 201 fil? :
| H
oe } Mr. Tovar. I don't know. I can speculate. I don't know.!

i
i

NW 48331 oii 2277210 Page 29 The REPRET


UF S2GNLl _

Mr. Goldsmith. What vould your speculation be?
Mr. Tovar. I would sjxeculate in the days when they were
functioning they probably iid. You have a very unauthoriative

witness on that subject.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is the relationship if any between |;
6] the Office of Security and the CI staff?
Mr. Tovar. We have baisically different functions. The

Office of Security is unde:: the Directorate of Administration

and is responsible for the personnel and physical security of

é

the entire division. It.:focuses on personnel security and

{
i
nl physical security.

The CI staff as I described it, is an element of DDO

concerned with research ani analysis and operation and coordi-

atior

“The relation between us and the Office of Security is
simply that between us and another fraternal element of the
Agency which has responsib:.lity which sometimes comes close
together.

Mr. Goldsmith. Does che Office of Security maintain

files which contain information of a derogatory nature on

individuals, not necessari:.y limited to Agency employees?
Mr. Tovar. To my knowledge they don't. My assumption is

ii I have never seen what .s in their files -- my assumption is}

that they have files only on Agency personnel. I. cannot
visualize circumstances under which they would maintain infor-

mation on people who are not in the Agency or who had not been

RY, 48331 datlaiatiaae Page 30 TAD CreorrT


UP SZUREi

: 29°

applicates for employment and then left.

2 | Mr. Goldsmith. Is the Office of Security interested in

a] maintaining information so that if in the future an individual
@ : was being considered for employment. in some capacity with the
; S| Agency the Secuirty Office would have that information on

' : :

é i him?

? Mr. Tovar. I cannot visualize that heppening today.

8 | Mr. Goldsmith. I wou!d like to ask you to read CIA 0786, |

which is a document that this Committee obtained from the
10 | Office of Security files on Lee Harvey Oswald.

: Me, Tovar. That sort of suggests they maintained such
information then. I still cannot visualize there doing it

today.

Security may be different t:oday from what it was in 1959 with

regard to maintaining such files?
Mr. Tovar. ‘The funct:.on, I would use the term function,

13 I would say the policy of “che Office as far as the way the

19 | office operates today. I don't know what they do intrinsically,

20 I cannot visualize their maintaining that kind of current
records today. Maybe this is historic, it was in the files

since 1969. With the injunction against destroying files,

the files remained.

i
q
|
i
2s 4 I would not visualize the office of Security maintaining this
H

i lesait pactassee7i2i0 Page 31 TAR CEPOrT

If it was John Q. Doe appearing today in a similar context:

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you think the function of the Office off
i

i
{
1

'
i
i
|


wa

a

ry

33
24

3

NW 48331 DocIa:

Ur OLuNe! 30

kind of document.

Mr. Goldsmith. To whom would this document go today?

Mr..Tovar. You mean from the State Department?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, a State Department document. Which
is indicating that an American citizen is giving information,
intelligence information t2 a'-foreign country, to whom in the

CIA would that document go?

Mr. Tovar, I'am not sure it would come to the CIA at all

because the CIA does not have responsibility for that type of
person. I think it would jo to the FBI.

Mr. Goldsmith. Even though the individual is overseas?

Mr. Tovar. Yes. He is an American. Again, this is
speculation. I don't know what moves the person who releases
cables to the Moscow Embassy today. He might decide or some-
body here in State Security might decide that CIA should see
this. In that event, it probably would go to the Office of
Security as a matter of information..

Mr. Goldsmith. Would information contained in this type
of telegram normally lead -:o the opening of a 201 file?

Mr. Tovar. I would tiink not.

Mr. Goldsmith. Why not?

Mr. Tovar. There is nothing that suggests here this

is going to be of continuing interest to the CIA. This is

1959. Let us say in 1962 :he man came back and another message’

Came over and it indicated that he was available for discussion

eres TAD Grpercr



»
S

2
ry

WW 48931 poorasb2277210 Page 33 TAD CCPDSIT

tur HEAL!

31

or was of interest and so on and maybe there are reasons for

debriefing, I can visualize a 201 being opened if the matter
were of apparent continuiny interest. I can see no reason why |
a 201 would be opened in this case.

Mr. Goldsmith. What :.£ this telegram was followed by a |
aable indicating that the undividual had decided to defect?

Mr. Tovar. What do you mean? He is applying for Soviet

citizenship, so he is defecting here?

Mr. Goldsmith. You a:re correct. I withdraw the question.

Mr. Tovar. I think basically my point is that it is a
fact that a 201 need not be opened up on this type -- this is
a casual piece of informat:.on. If one could eliminate the

name Lee Harvey Oswald, wh:.ch raises flages, it is John Doe

and there is nothing in th:.s -- someone might say what an SOB
this is but there is nothing to indicate anything but an

unfortunate incidental event, I would say today, "why bother:

We have enought to do without opening 201 files on people of
that nature." The encyclopedic approach is not one that we
try to appiy.

Bear in mind, I am do:ng a lot of speculating here. I
perhaps shouldn't.

Mr. Goldsmith. You really aren't aware of what the
procedure would be in 1959 for dealing with a telegram like H
this? i

Mr. Tovar. No. I would still say today I would not expect

!
i
|


UP HERE!

32

that kind of document to be retained in Agency files anywhere.
You know, inter-departmental correspondence is firing paper in
all directions all the time on an informational basis. That |
@ 4 |. does not mean it is retained.
5 | Mr. Goldsmith. With --egard to this document, after 1959
6 | your testimony is moreorle:ss speculation but you are saying |
that today you don't think that this type of document would be
retained and have any spec:.al significance?

Mr. Tovar. I don't think so. I am scratching my head

10 i trying to visualize circumstances under which it could be
{
i
i

retained. There is nothing of interest to the Agency. There .

12 | is nothing of immediate counterintelligence interest. I don't

13 i know who would retain it o:: why.

if Mr. Goldsmith. For the purpose of clarification, if the |
CI asked that of the CIA, hy that I mean the counterintelligence
aspect of the CIA concerned primarily with a foreign counter-

i
intelligence threat, in otehr words, foreign nationals, foreign:

13 citizens?

looks like espionage, we would become interested. That is

|

19 | Mr. ‘Tovar. You are asking is it?

x | Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. |

2 . Mr. Tovar. Primarily yes, but not solely. We are i

i

- 22 i concerned with Americans o:: counterintelligence interest. If
e 3 an overseas station is informed by somebody that an American |
u is contacting the Soviets and is apparently engaged in what :

|

:

aa 48331 DocIa:'$2277210 Page 34 TAG GECOET


= 48331 DocId:32277210 Page 35 TAB eQrAorrT

iUP SEUREI

33

espionage I.am talking abou:.

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand.

Mr. Tovar. You realive of course with the sensitivity
of Americans investigation: of Americans we have to be an we
are extremely careful in making the determination as to when a
person is of counterintell:.gence interest. We have very strict]
xules and regulations on tle consideration of investigations,
considerations retaining information, the rights of a person.

The criteria are very stringent. Theyare under esecutive

order and Attorney General guidelines. We don't approach this
casually at all. It is proscribed activity.
Mr. Goldsmith. Both iis to Americans?

Mr. Tovar... Prima:ily Americans. The Attorney General)

is not concerned essential:.y with non-US persons. Our focus of
sensitivity is on US persons who are US citizens or residents, |
aliens or US entities, organizations, which are primarily
American in composition:

Mr. Goldsmith. Again, would you focus outside the-borders
of the United States?

Mr. Tovar. Yes. Ins:.de USiis FBI.

Mr. Goldsmith. Before when you made reference to a
station overseas, you becane aware of an American who might
be involved in espionage for another country, you were refer-

ring to an American who was living abroad, is that correct?

Mr. Tovar. Yes, or t::aveling abroad.


NW’ 48332 poota:42077210 Page 36 TAD QEPOCT

w

o

34

bur DELREI

\

Mr. Goldsmith. I would like to show you CIA. Number 788
which is the field personality file request form that was used -
to open Oswald's 201 file. In the middle of the page there is 2
box which states-the term ‘Other identification". I£ someone
wrote the number or letter "AG" down, what does that stand for?!

Mr. Tovar. I have no idea. What are they referring
to here? I cannot think of anything.

Mr. Goldsmith. The form also indicates that Oswald's

file was restricted. Do you know of any reason.why Oswald's

file would have been restricted?
Mr. Tovar. Where is -:hat? |
Mr. Goldsmith. Here.
Mr. Tovar. No, ‘I don't know. I don't know what criteria ;
they would have used at that time or even today for that matter!
to open a restricted file. Bear in mind, there is a lot of
latitude given to the individual. who opened these things. He
could be a very junior ana.yst who for encom of his own
decided he would @o it this way. Supervision would not neces-
sarily get down there very closely behind him.
Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what the inter-agency source
register is? i
Mr. Tovar. Yes. : i !

Mr. Goldsmith. What :.s that? !

Mr. Tovar. As I unde:stand it, it is a register maintained

in which other agencies of the government register their


; i PUP Seal eCilisile

interest in a person. Let us take, for example, you are working

2] for the Army Intelligence ind you are in Germany and you become)
3 ; interdsted in Mr. Smith. ‘et us say you check Mr. Smith with i
: e 3 the CIA and with the other agencies and in so doing you wish

to have him recorded under the ISR, Inter Agency Source

6 | Registry, the entry of his name in the ISR will normally flag

prior interest on the part of somebody in the government, in

. ; t
8 i this case you are in the A:my.
!

i : : i
ot I don't know what this symbol is but they put two asterisks .
I
!

which indicates to anybody else who checks that name later the

US Army has.a prior interest in that person,

Mr. Goldsmith. What l:ind of interest would that be?

i3 Mr. Tovar. Intelligence interest to me, potential

intelligence interest. Again, the ISR may have ramifications
that I am not aware of. In my experience the ISR has been the
place we go to check, say, a new or potentially new source to
see if there is ny other p:-eviously established government
interest in the person which means keep your hands off. The
. military rely upon this ve::y heavily because we coordinate the

clandestine intelligence operations.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would an ISR index be checked prior to
opening up a 201 file as a matter of routine?

Mr. Tovar. It has been so many years since I have done

this. The way we have become mechanized today I would assume

that a normal file check through the central files of the

once ee nn

RW 48331 ait Page 37 THD CLPOCT


33

74

2g

WW 49331 Docta!'32277210 Page 38 THD CEPRET +

36

iUr SEAL!

Directorate would include or would turn up anything that was
in the ISR. I am just not sure. how it works.

Mx. Goldsmith. I£.soneone were an agent of another
intelligence organization would that be indicated in the 201
file?

t

Mr. Tovar, If it were an agent, agent of another service,
i

that would be inthe ISR:only if it. had been of interest to
another agency which said "Put Joh Doe's name in the ISR and

indicate he is a US Army intelligence source," at the very

least a person of interest to the US Army Intelligence Agency. |
It would not be there if the Army had not put it in. So you j
might not know. : : 4

Again, I think al any agent of the military would rely

upon the ISr, I would thin}. almost certainly would be entered

in the ISr, because they want to maintain control of it, to

make sure nobody else gets in the way arnd interferes-with their
i

operations.
Mr. Goldsmith. So if someone were an agent it would in j

all likelihood be indicate: in the ISR and assuming the ISR

!
1
is checked by a CI person prior to opening up the file, he would

take note of that fact? :

Mr. Tovar. Say that again. Some of this is pretty fuzzy
to me. I don't want to mislead you by extrapolating from my
own ignorance.

Mr. Goldsmith. If someone is an agent of another


rey

. 2
.o

%3

2%

ww 45331 Doora:42277210 Page 39° TAD “fAott

UP obGtci 37

intelligence service, that fact would be noted in the ISR?

Mr. Tovar. Another U3 intelligence service?
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. : |
Mr. Tovar. A US military intelligence service only, yes,
the military intelligence service would normally be registered |
in the ISR. Other than ths military, the FBI intelligence

assets would not be regist2red in the ISr to my knowledge.

Mr. Goldsmith. ~ But the military tends to make that list- |

ing?

Mr, Tovar. In my experience the miltiary has been the

primary element involved in the use and the exploitation of the|
t

: 1
ISR. Let me interpose ano--her point here. I am not an expert i

in these procedures and I am way out of touch. ‘You live most

of your life overseas, you don't do these things-back-at-~--—-"~ 7
!
headquarters. These procedures may be quite different in |
actuality. I am groping through my memory to see how they were}

: ; i
dealt with on an active basis. 7

A’ fellow like Bill Donnelly might enlighten you much more

than I could about the ISR.

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that. I think you can tell
i am not pressing you for <letail on it.

Mr. Tovar. I would 1: ke to help you. I am prepared to
specualte as I have been doing on things that are somewhat
beyond my direct experience: and direct responsibility. There ;
is a limit.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, if someone checking IS.R notes that


NW 48331 DocId:

(esse same

7 -;
1Ur Dcunel a8
an individual is a military intelligence agent would the fact
of that agency status be noted and a 201 file opened on that i

individual? : \

Mr. Tovar. I am not sure. I would think it would be.

Again, I.am speculating. [ think almost certainly if I were

doing a file check on a p2rson whose name came from one of the'

field stations and it turned up the fact he was already ~ ;
registered in the ISR,.if a person is of interest let us say, |
to. the US Army Intelligenc:, that would automatically sort of
proscribe further attempts on my part to go in and get involved)
I think a notation would b2 made in the 201 file.

Mr. Goldsmith. As a practical matter that would be a good|
reason for making the nota-:ion?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Does che CIA regularly use the ISR?

Mr. Tovar. We maintain it as I understand it. |

Mr. Goldsmith. So if someone is an agent of. the CIA,

would that fact be noted in the ISR?

Mr. Tovar. No, I don't believe it would. Again, you

can check on that to make certain. Donelly I think can help

much better on it. I cannot visualize all our sensitive sources

being registered there. : |
Mr. Goldsmith: Do yo. know how internal memoranda preparel

t
by James Angleton when he vas head of the CI’Staff, how interna]

|
i
i
|

2277210 Page 40 TAD QEPSTT


i¥P DSEURL! ; 39

: !
: | paperwork relating to the JFK assassination was prepared and i
2 subsequently stored?
3 - Mr. Tovar. No, I reaily don't. I have no idea. I have
‘@ . seen no documents on that subject. JI have seen nothing either
5 originated or approved or signed by him. You realize that any 1
6 files on this subject are dead files. I am just doing my !
Hl
? current job. Until you poeple became interested, we were not
3 \ dealing with them on a dai:.y basis. |
9 Mr. Goldsmith. What happens to the personal files of an
1 i individual such as Angletons or even yourself after leaving the
n CI svaff? | : H
12 | Mr. Tovar. After leaving the staff or leaving the Agency?
|
@ 13 | Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take the first after leaving the C]

Staff;-what-would-happen to” your personal papers? H
1
Mr. Tovar. The personal file, official file on the person

in the Agency is retained hy the Office of Personnel.

Mr. Goldsmith. That would givern your personal. file, ey

your personal papers. ‘ha: about internal memos, soft copy

19 type files, what would happen to them?

20 Mr. Tovar. Having bevwn only one element of the organiza-

31 | tion during my career, it is hard to say. :

Mr. Goldsmith. I am not talking now about personnel file.
1
I am talking about soft copy, working files that an individual ;:

May maintain.

!
i
Mr.-Tovar. You mean che files he himself as an individual,
!

ww 40331 dootasha277210 Page 41 THD CEPRET


i

: i

@
-

i

i
|
y
as &

H
r

I dictate a memorandum and I send it to anybody you want to

tur OLUAEI

40

maintained?
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
Mr. Tovar. Most individuals don't maintain personal files!

I don't think. I would say, for example, anything I write,

name, in a sense that is my work, I have done it but I don't
keep a personal file on that. That goes into my office file.
It is part of the office caronological file which is maintained
by my secretary. Let us say multiply that by 500,000 over.a
period of years the foles jrow. At the time I leave I am
incidental in a sense. I just happen to be the person in the :

job at the time. The files will still be there.

There is a normal retirement and destruction under normal

conditions, retirement and destruction program which eliminates’
the accumulation of excessive useless material.
i
Mr. Goldsmith. Most paperwork would go in this office .
chrono file? |
Mr. Tovar. Yes, anything of significance would go in the
office chrono file, Anyth:.ng I write to the Directorate of

|
Operations, DDO, CI, it is normally part of the chrono files.

. If I want it, it is ‘there. It is my own file in the sense that

when I am on the job I have total access to-it. If I left

the job and wanted to look at it-six months later, it is still

1
H
!
|
i
|
in the fole and I would as): somebody who took my place could I H
: i
see what I wrote. I would not take it with me. i
i
i
|
i

Et THD 8reerT

,


41

tur vcuKz!

Mr. Goldsmith. If it is an office chrono file does that

2 | meant that everything is filed in a chronological order?
:
om Mr. Tovar. Not necessarily. Here you ought to consult
e i my secretary. There might be a subject breakdown. Ordinarily
5

hte front office, we don't main-ain a lot of files. There is j
6 no point. in it. Let us say something -I signed off on, here
is a case in point, memos chat are signed “on my behalf or

$i] that I might have signed, if I were there that day, I would

1

|
not maintain that in my front office as a rule. That would H
: |
probably be maintained by she office of origination. I think |
if I signed it my secretary would certainly maintain a log of |i

things that had gone throujh me for signature. But I don't

i is think, I could be wrong on this, I don't think as a rule she

would maintain a routine m2morandum just because I happened to

sign it because I sign so :nany things onthat staff. I sign

i off on a host of things which are not really my creation. I

‘7 | am representing the staff as a whole.

18 : Mr. Goldsmith. Do yoi know when Mr. Angleton left the CI

ig Staff?

20 Mr. Tovar. Yes. I an not certain of the precise date. \
21 ‘I think it was either Decenber '74 or January '75. That is the

2 | position of Chief, Counterintelligence?

73 | Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

rt Mr. Tovar. I believe he may have retmained in the office!

as i for several. months after tiat before he finally retired.

NW 48331° Doota:52277210 Page 43 THE QEPRET


1UP DLUNE! : 42

Mr. Goldsmith. Do yoi know whether, after Mr. Angleton

n>

left the CI Staff, any typ2 of followup was done by that staff

on the Nosenko issue?

Mr. Tovar. Followup work?

5 Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. For example, one of the issues, the
6 key issue with regard to M:. Nosenko was his bona fides.
? Mr.. Tovar. Yes, indeed.
‘| Mr. Goldmsith. After Mr. Angleton left was any additional]
| analytical work done on that issue?
to Mr. Tovar. A very de:ailed study was done by my predecessor
ny George Kalaris. A very thorough analysis was made of. the eed
| Nosenko question.

i

Mr. Goldsmith. Are you referring to the Hart Report?

Mr. Tovar. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Other than the Hart report was any type of!
1
followup work. or analytica:. work done after Mr.. Angleton's i

departure? |

Mr. Tovar. I don't know. for certain. ‘The Hart Report is

19 a thick piece of paper. In the preparation of that report

20 there were probably all kinds of drafts, scratchings and sort
21 of preliminary jobs. All what I know would be in the context
of:that report. All I- know would be same representations in

|
response to the Director's inquiry or your inquiry or someone !

else's inquiry as to what happened, what did it say, what does

it mean, that type of thiny, but really correlary efforts.

TAP SECRET


tur Oebacl 43

Mr. Goldsmith. Think for a moment on the Nosenko issue.

re

As Chief of the CI Staff, if it were demonstrated to you very
clearly that the story given -by Mr:..Nosenko on Lee Harvey
e@ : Oswald was full of contradictions and in addition to contra-

dictions, it was in many ways simply incredible, what impact

we

would that have on the Agency's assessment of Mr. Nosenko as

being a bona fide rather than a dispatched defector?

Mr. Tovar. Well, it is difficult to answer: You are

posing a question in a nar:cow sense. You are focusing on one

o

point, Nosenko vis-a-vis Oswald and contradictions that may

emerge there. I would answer by saying that again I am not an
expert on Nosenko. I don': profess to have a full grasp of

his bona fides or anything related to it.

cs

I would say that ques:ion alone would not be enough to

1s | satisfy me that the inquiry had been made carefully. There is:

much more to it than what Josenko had to say about Oswald. '

17 | There are more aspects abot the bona fides issue, more than I:

13 | could give you today.

19 | Mr. Goldsmith. I hav: read the Hart Report.

Mr. Tovar. He tried -o deal with the whole consideration,i

the whole Oswald, the handling, the methodology. He did not

-_ 22 | go into every jot and tittle of the issue.
@ 3 Mr. Goldsmith. In fast, the Hart Report did not mention
2 the word "Oswald" even one time. Even so, the question I have,’
q
a

if it were demonstrated to you that Nosenko's story on the

NW 48331 pacralbeszeaie Page 45 TAD QEPOET


iUPr OLfbAL! 44

i
at i

j Oswald issue is untrue, cainot be believed, would that have any}

ey

impact on the Agency's assassment of him as a bona fied?

| Mr. Tovar. The first reaction would be I would be deeply ;

f e | distressed and concerned, [ would want to know more about it.
You have to exptrapolate from me to the Agency. Other people
6 | have views on this other taan myself. If you carried this thing

| further and convinced ever;thody, the point you made is valid,

& | then you would have -- i
!

cn Mr. Goldsmith. We ar2 talking hypothetically now. Let

i
'
i
us go beyond you. If it were demonstrated to the Director of i

|
the Central intelligence Ajency that the story given by Nosenkd

on Oswald -- I am not talk ing about any of the other information

he gave, but on Oswald -- simply cannot be believed because, !

A, part of it is incrediblz, B, it is full. of contradictions,

what effect do you think that would have on the Agency's

o

assessment of him as a bon: fide defector?

Mr. Tovar. I literally don't know. I am not sure what

x

18 | the comparative weight of <hat point would be when considered
7 against the backdrop of th: full Nosenko question.

20 Mr. Goldsmith. As Chief of the CI Staff, you would

21 personally be troubled by hat?

22 Il Mr. Tovar. Yes, I think I would be troubled by it. I

+3] would be troubled. I wouli be troubled that our current

ri assessment is wrong. That would trouble me.

Again, I would say, loo, if this is a serious proposition

2
ry

RW 48331 Decid:'32277210 Page 46 Thp CLPOCT


UP oCURE! 45

you are making, let us say you adduced a number of analysts

who examined this thing thoroughly and were in a position of
ql
af making that kind of judgment, I would say, "I want to have
- 4
e +l these analysts talk to my analysts because I am not in a posi-

51 tion to make that kind of judgment.“ i

6h Mr. Goldsmith. First of all, I am not making the statement
' that Nosenko's story on Oswald is inaccurate in any way.
cl) Secondly, even if the story is inaccurate, I don't want

i
| '
to suggest that because of that anyone on this Committee has

any feeling that that means Nosenko is not bona fide. My

{

i
question is really'very linited. A, if it were demonstrated i
: |

i
!
i
!

12 | that the story on Oswald is inaccurate, what impact would that
| :
i: 13 have on your overall assessment?
: @ 1 | Mr. Tovar. You mean demonstrably inaccurate? i
i |
4 7 t
1s | Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
|
16 i
i

l
Mr. Tovar. It would have to be examined. It would have |
i
!
7 to be examined the full panoply of the whole Oswald issue. H
1a | .Iswould say weiwill get this team of analysts and we will

19 fight it out. We are talking about hypothesis.

20 | Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. I would prefer to stay away from the
|

21) texm "fighting it out" because there is no one here who is in ;

|

the posture of making a fighting issue ott of it. © : 1

vos

2 | I no longer have any questions. I.will have questions to |

ask whoever on your staff participated in the preparation of

the memo that we discused earlier.

>

1
i
|
H
i

i
i

NW 48331 postal sesrvaaa Page 47 TAB QEPDET


iUP QEUREL

1 46

Normally whenever a witness has an opportunity to testify

before the Committee at a i1earing, the Committee gives him five

minutes at the end to make a statement. This is not a hearing. |
However, if you would like to make a statement for the record,
feel free to do so. If no:, you will be given a chance to

6 verify the record for accucacy.

y Mr. Tovar. Since I have no position to present and no

| point to makg¢ it is probably improper to make a statement.

10 1 speculating here in many respects. Bear in mind there is an

area here where I have a purview that is perhaps. valid. We

i
12 are talking about a lot of things which are way beyond my
i

immediate experience and certainly my current responsibility.
I would say, take some of my speculation with a grain of

salt, because I don't mean to be dogmatic on these things.

The procedure for handling the 201 file, there are some GS-7

H
!
|
The only think I would reiterate is that I have been sort of j{
at i
if
|
1
|
i
i
!
:
i
+ : i
girls down the line who could tell you much more about the 201 j

files than I would ever be able to compile for you. They are

the ones you really should talk to.
|

Things like the ISR, -. know the ISR-in a limited framework!

: i
z1j from the standpoint of a guy overseas who is dealing frequently
22 1 with the military and registers military sources in the ISR

and checks the ISR either on behalf of the military or to see

i
|
i
|
if they have.already registered prior interest and so on. There
z H

2s 1 may. be other aspects of the thing that you should ge more -

’
u

Bi cisai noha Magagt gat TMP SEPRET


ub

ww
ry

NW 48331 DocId:

1Ur SEUREL

| professional advice on.

y
42077210 Page 49

no objection to try to mee:: you more than halfway on it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Fine. Thank you very much.

TAP SFRRET

47

I think your question: have been reasonable. I have found|

(Whereupon, at 3:20 p.m., the deposition was concluded.)



48

tur WeUALI

| CERTIFICAT OF NOTARY PUBLIC

2 I, Alfred Joseph LaFrance, the officer before whom the
i >
3 | foregoing deposition was taken, do hereby certify that the
@ ‘| witness whose testimony appears in the foregoing deposition

was duly sworn by me; that the testimony of said witness was

6 taken by me in stenotype to the best of my ability and there-

after reduced to typewriting under my direction, that said

deposition is a true record of the testimony given by said.

0°

by any of the parties to the action in which this deposition

was taken; and further that. I am not a relative or employee

of any attorney or counsel employed by the parties thereto,
f

nor financially or otherwise interested in the outcome of the

action.

District of Columbia

17 | My Commission expires Noverber 14, 1980.
i

NW 48331 er Page 50 TAP GEPOET

Notary Public in and for the

1

|
witness; that I am neither. counsel for, related to, nor employed

{
i
i
1
1

