# 180-10140-10267

## Page 1

180-10140-10267

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

girlier: d. 09n0.17.6511

JFK BoRd

Tolen 1 40

rs. ma....

Sust: sammittee on dies:

1275:

=.

1576

CIA MAS NO OBJECTION TO

CECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

2s perciting

722455

MI. Putricl: Carpentier

CElac: 01 the Ionisiative Counsel

Conazai Inceiligence agency

washington, D. C.

Dear it. Carpertica:

In connection with its investigation into the citcut-

stances surrounding

the death or President Kerreez: the Seleci

conmittes on Assassinations reouests access to

files ana

file references pertaining to the following indirauais:

Edward fay Epstein

2) NiMarvin Kantos

In addition, please provide ine Committa. with access to

the following information:

5)

Any and all investigative reports pregnaeg tre.

howard tunt pertaining to the john a. Ronnedy assa

sination. "These reports vere not nucessarily pres

pared during the period oi Me. Huntie enploymert

with the CIA).

6)

The Committce previously requested access to all or files

pertainine to s. Howard Hunt in its lotter to on of January to

Forever,

Roger Gabrielson, of your state. las reguested

thật the particular requests identifica above, be aut timeta

the committce would also appreciate a cooperse deer sha

Siresding the following rattors:

180-10140-10267

---

## Page 2

Zige

atrick Carpentier

5, 1978

2

Beat to do in she cIas written stagerent replyingine te comictee's

request i February 2u, 1975 forjan.

criteria

"that governed the opening Ch i 201 11l0 cur-

ing the years 1950-54 was not caspora:: 5o

bacause the CIt's vition statement t

not focus on tre

relevant time Ferioc.

accordingly?: nerdrag 045

ir. the mont trit there

vere no criteria governing the opening da suck

during that period; the Committee coul:

written statement indicating thut this the the ease.

Ci: docunent 1565-016 Audicates that tinie naz dadacin

ments tramshould be in tee Marvey Cortis di Eate

Dụt which are missing fron the file.

furthernore:

document also indicates that there shame da tdachare

isting of these documents attached de cer sE document

1563-310, bat no suct listing appears it

Select Conmittes on assassinationg Isg-ate trex che

cIA provide a listing of such documert: namellas a

mitten explanation of where those documes are ic-

caied and

why they do not appear da Cards 202

Fursuant to my letter ce secarder 27r tarl:

I would Like

so note that the document referred o in this paragreea

is a classified documant.

9)

Pter having zerieved botr the accument:

materials that were independently nage

under the Privacy Aot, it is apparent that the fires

which were made

available to the Cormanese dna pot irr

cLude iTINGUAI materials... As the Committed bes

aircady requestea ali information contained to yous

files on the individuals to are the enajeceo ds ou=

requests, please

Ierier the files that

viously made available to us for the prepose os ensuz-

ing that all of the information pertaining to te

individuals involved has, in get, beer

craned.

do XIinally, the Committee vould like to intercine capersons

sarved as Case officars in tre

soviet Russion

the CIA's polyp Stationior the period 1953 thee:

1964, as well

as[the Chiefts) of saation and Depic

station o= that period.

The Commiiiee regreste

---

## Page 3

Patrick Carpentier

April

5, 1978

Dage 3

either make these persons avalianie for our da.

or provide their last krom address

So that ti

c...

directly.

trea

Thank you for your contaguing cooperatio..

sincerely,

G. Robert Since

Chief Counsel and biressor:

GEE: bwa

---

