‘CYOOTTTT |

| Sept 37,1260, cable te the. Directuc from..maAsy Cosas)

[Stone emgesesti “1. FBX has adused of approach made to Frank
Fweins foe procurement ot nue MEG arccraft whicn would be

|
| drough+ bo states py one Creech and one Cuban pilot, Approach

rade by morman Rothman who 1s hoock indicted we
gua cunning and stolen boncts Currently ort on $50,000 bund +
\ “2. 787. contact lt Rothman interest was straignt proht mohve a
hope for favorable treatment re above tap. Contact siatea no
jenance whatever later ana that nad aduised Fiorini that FED
jeouna not handle. sach.adea)d bat woul pas me sther erased

US. goot agearcy.. Said that inspr¥e. of abae derog. imfo believed athrnan

leudverg pavanty, pmawet” THIS COPY IS NOT
| "3. Hos. Has. cou. 1oterest eucsuc.” ’ FOR RELEASE,

Headquariers.. responded om. Sept a&,!4¢0 (Dir 029728
stahag, "Tt Ref para.2 plan involves defechun of MIG
Gnd @ Czech pilot from Cubs HQs. vitally interei bea.
(Pause all gechnent details.”

f AMASH: responded on Oct 1,19 60 (mash oBatys
"sew. Rothman forthcoming tal ecal FBT ‘eels
|Pushee Deeartmen? be advised Prior any CLA contactsubj.
[Phd wm prevent any complicahen. prosecuhun if op Succeeds
ona Rothman aremets make deal re possible prison ier

i
i 2... Pee. telecon AA Seet ._MPSH advised HQs Sanhago

i
een abo. Gpproachea by Rothman. with same pian fet A
[rsrcmeg - If HQs...decide 90 ahead withops, MASH plan
mae c Contacd...through Gey. yee

| This cable wos.folowed.byanoth 4c. cable, to the Direchr

ae i mas aahed. ood 20,14 eetatt” liea). s tabng

10/40-(0311


144100

: gtCREt

“Request replies me cets Leetersne as are masi+ occas 5
mash O841), FBI still hay Open amine core Ret A and ho
calle several times, Also device Qe Parhve aniwer 4D
‘Sanhago Rey on ref B.” No fey ponding cable frum Hq,

EW contained in thi fle.

The file contained two memorenaa for the (ecord .pre pared
by [oT pate June 30,1901 ana Taly iv He
Tre Mire 30 memo contains the fllowing imformahar!

a- Rothman's DOB is 3G Dec 914 OB is Bronk ,NY.

b- Bhen Rothman first came t CZA'S AHENAUN in
See. 1938) he was \rorng in Dallas Texas ana was
ailegediy, engaged in Public relahins work. According no his ant
Gloria, ha mad@ a one-week trip tw Los Angelos in Sept amber
In uNdisclaer business, 7

c- za Oct 1959, Rothman wos managing he Biltmore
Tecrace Hotel 1A miam) trem uhh he was repotedtig’ tha Fes
to be supplying an anh-Castro organizahon wilharms wich
he obtainea through Ws. gangsies....”

ae Following, Prisburgn convichen, Rothman went to
rehicago , Where Ae surrendeted oncharges of Plaging atey rie
DD one of +he biggest robberies in Modern ermine! history , the
a IBS million looting of a Canadien bank. .,..° ‘Roboery was
touched. of # when the Canadian brancn of dhe maha receueda
Tharey cup ordee from the Caribbean tur arms , the Canadien
maha dd ao have the money 4 bug arms out it kee hove
get hangs on the contents of the Brockville ,Oniario bank
Tr called upun the Us. Mahar Aeros aad 14 was tren

[that Rothman enlered the oe Mt woas cher ged. Subsequenth:


| 4
37
| ENOOTTTT SECREI

portions of loot turnea up in Shanghads | Prgenhna4, Cuca

Nand Pustraliea.”

C- before Rothman was tracted down in connechen umth the absve
crimes, he was reported by rhe FBT as traveling te Yucatan to
yseck a pare of operahons against the Castro gov t.In this enter

prise he was associaiat with (Teddy) wartehowe insua, former
of the Cuban Cul Aeranauhcal Associzhun', ex-Colone |
‘orlonde Pedra, Nequeruela W firmer member of GEA ano

| headk of Cuban Bureau of Tnveshgahons ana Colonel Rover ty
“Fernandez Miranda prother-in-iaw of Basta and former
Icommander of the presidennal guards as well as praident
of the Wamonel Sports Commissica. While nomenhun A made
of Relande Maiterrer in this connechun, RoFHman hes engagec
In meny exploits and deals with Massercer.”

£. "En Sept 1960 Rothman shil out on 850,000 bund.
made an approach te Frank Fiorini, soldier of fuctune,
Sfecring fo obtain NES MIQs- one Flown by a Creech
and another bya Cuban. Forint felk that gornmants ynieres +
was Shmulated bY a straignt proh+ mohve or by ropes
a favorable, treatment regarding the Fed. cate against him.*
i g-" In Oct..19@0, Rorhman. again appeared in Dallas,
lwhere he approacheh Robert € Srinnan ys ARB onl
contracts  EFOMehon man.. Rothman claimek te heve
connections worth. Nor-Roth Industries of N.Y.C ond stated
shat chents of his had an inkeret In purcnzsing Amilon
Ipetrie tons of dhesal fuel oi ands 4) millon metric ions

of crude. orl. 48 be dehvered over fue-year pectou.

io Hamb erg, Bermany. GrGEORELariea by: the offer,
i
k


1zCe3y

fepociea to the FBT. he went te ALY. in Movember ond med
+h +
Rothman and the other principals of the deal a mary

Talley and a Be. Philhp Paneth de Panay. harge ly

becawe of Grinnants suspicions the deal war never
consumaied.”
bh. Ps of December I4b0 , Rothman a wing 1A

Dallas , Texas.’

The second memorandum fe the record, (uly iv, lawn)

contains addihonel packground infrmahsa and an updateck
thar F

locaton on Rothman. The memo indicates Bisbee during

ne Bahsta regime , Rothman wo the supervisor of

>
Slot machines 1A Camaquey province under the nahonel
ne
Supervisor | Alberto Praura Moye , Who was one of owners
—S— EONS
oF the Tromeana nigntclub in pauang. The memo states

thar cecent reports piace Rotmman va Mam .

Tne fle a\so contains a memorandum for the
Tepury Crmel of the west wmisphere Division from Char le
WSimmons (2a meeting with Rothman ana Davia mM,
i MelonneN. The memo 1s chatea Tune 30,1961. The meenng
occurred on Tne 29,196), at the Oeputy ARturney Lenercel's oi hce
and was or the purpose of . evaluahng “Rothmants claim +o
Sperahonzi assets wide Cuba ana elyewhere in the Cari dbear
area. AN cgieertdnt wos made that Deena would b-e
nonhed of Rothmants “opercshonzl potennal in cuban affairs” on
Twhy S.  (inere & na eEREL vee hie of seme any

iturthee comrunicanun wrt ‘metonnel),


eooorrTt

|
| | SECRET

HW
i Ax the beginning of the meehng melennell spoke to Simmeaw
|

iprivately. Metonnell described nimeiF os a "leading polvhea}
[Agure sa the Semocranc Pachy mathine 19 A. Caroline” gach

staea, ne wa acquainhkenr wen Robert Kennedy, Genera) Taylor and
A

Genera) van Fleet, McConnell is a corporat tax attorney aN

(Wad concernta about he embarassment a the ‘eennedy

Loaamunisirahw caused by HRe Cuban “hasio.” je stated that

Rothman chims % have assets anc capabi line which woul,
‘enable Rothman to, destrow the arms duMps on the
plantahnun of ex-presdent Cardenas of mexile jt setup
Sperahonz| bases in the Yucatar ata cosh vt ASO-H), C09 +o
sabateg e targels in Cuba idenhhed by tre Us. govt
aad 4 provide  posrhue intelligence on the achurher of

Chinese Communist Groups in the weitern Hemephelt.

Hi vonen Rothman Was Geeesittesey quahnat by Simmons he
1

made the fallowng point?

'- Casto maa execuheck tree of AG clase frienay*
(Francisco- war name)
‘Rogelio Gonzalez, Sori marin and Efigeno Fornender |

a= Rotman has te operant) cagadilihy 2 datroy arms
dumps of Cardenat. He hax agent assets in Mexico with whan he
ive made contact 4 4% S month ago.
| B- Re had  snaians camtruct an airstnpin the WUCatan |
NGne. 8-26 haa. \anaea mere
1 Y= Fe 1S. Well acquani€@a with sanchee Prgange at.

Considers Him @ Close. personel Friend. he last met Arang> ©

'

|

i

| Pe

| 5- Ke has the personnel’ ana copabsihes ma. abatle oF

force any. aarge sf oSECRET..4, mm Cubs. We has a a


3 14110005

SECRET

basic plan fer Assassinahsna of Castro, ‘the plan called fur an
Orr atiack with napalm against Castro wren he was addressin 3
Q rally. He nus 100 pilots Who had parhipaiu m the
wuasion of Cuba and. ale now working, fur the cungalese Pir Foce
Rothman would not identity the pilots,

S& Romman said he hack. manyagents going 19 and out of Cuba
He is in contact with & agents at tay me. rhe agents
are in the tourist-travel busines or temper tex port business
Qna ener the US. through 3rd countried.

1 He Knows of mang Chinese communists gong into
Canada fram Cuba.

S-* Rothman expressed resentment over gun-running
charges He Sach "that CEA Urea the same people in the.
GAN tanning ALHUIHE and the same howies, fe which ne
(mr. @othman) was being prosecuted by the Federal Government.
re sara that he had Supervised YO Se apercnuns on behalf
of the Frenie against Cuba. Hescid thar CIA wowld Frucic
the stuff to the pomt of skp pick-ue, where he (mr. buthman
would superuise the loadina of the snips . He Savd that ne
Naw purcharedA +he aoth smip "reefer" which was the hrst
boat to support the undergrounch in Cubs. He added that
he knew everything the CIA piaanec nN marvhmne operaho:
sand for the muasion .”

A 4- Rothman staked he & a close friend oF Jonn Abves
Garcia Ph wet ‘of Dominican Pepublic Securi hy,

i

‘at the conciunon of the TMemorandwm, Simm sas comments

Ahat he did aot peheved ER Rihan's claim of contralling


agents ana material assets. fe tecummends +hat there be no

farther discussion with Cothman re thoe @ clams.
| Simmons notes from. this meehna, que meconneli's
| saaress oS Charloke,. Caroling, Tnts memo inched es
[daavmanel cemenents made by fo¥hman —
a- Claims t> know Prio., Betancourt

b- “Sus pects Patrick op a being fanny Gnd s\l-aduised.”

i
1
i

¢- Tn the Lost year Rothman has met Prango ao-ay time,

Rothman Knows fends “Garcia” ana “Ty”
; d- Austin Young 6 Rethman's persunal pilot,

e- He lask visited the Domminican Rep. in IATA etre
Lpurpae. of communicanng wrih avets anck contacts, Tonn Abbes

|arked Rothman do Tob”

The fle also contains some infurmahun on Eduardo

| Wikhowe, Orlando Piedra ,ONA Miranac Fernender,

i
i= wt Edvarde Tuo Whitehowe Tniua (oom 3-14-14)

i (

i aD “oe

fraka Teddy”. Whiehowe i descmbed as a cumoutnot of Rutnmen

An Pret 5,140 report sta that warrehowe ana Eliot

Spin

9 inkended to. Take oO B-Ab to Vera Cruz. Sam Rubin

4 a”

(Oeheved t be idenreal wih Sam "Stretck @ubin , chet
|

lidoorman, Ot the @itmare, Terrace. Werel) war reporied ty de

[tbe ovoner of ane 8-26 ( Reg * HBAs Pec, 31,1459
. % RB

i
|
il .
Irepor+ indicates that ut. Customs sened 4 B-Ab at Miami and
another (wasei@) Gt vero Beach, wnen wWrilenage anck

|

ji Sproning akemp ked to move theme Aula Dec 1960 cepart
4

jstates that lon howe wo responirrble — far setiag Jive

P the IUgar craps. wh estQEGRET Statler he wm arte by
wl


,
®

11110086

SECRET

| Alberto Fernandez Sur nelp. Fernandez has setup @

QuerMa gegamratiun. A 13 Feb dbl repurtstates dha

According te Alexander D_ Rorke, Te. »OhHieh Owe Hay
Alexander % Rocke, Te

70 pilots guaieble and ready To take drashe achen agen

Castro and have worked gut & “dehmbe plan of achun”

‘he accomplch “Cartro!s overtheuw,”

T.oriando Piedra
Pedra was. form erlg. incharge of the Dept. of Gn vesngahe
under Bansta, A 8 Tan 19GO feport states trat

jaccorcong 7 enrique Fernandez Parajioa porn ne anck

Pedra are heading the "military Sechon” of the counter
revoluhonery. group which & fLEiing monetary supp oct
froma Bahsta. A 4 march 1960 report indicahes Predeo
met or planned t meet with General Jose Pedrata dren
the lakers Uisit te Washingiin, — Pledra is desermben as cu
member of BRAC who fled Cuba an Jan 1, 1459,
‘Reference % made t% a New Orleans FRO repuck dalek
Maren 37,1461. On, OCF ALASG there WW a repuTh TRAD
| Piedra receiveu ores by Baste thru Tae Suarer Nunes tS
Immediately consahidale ant -Castre forces,
| Moranda Fernandet - Yhere ss one tepart, 3-8-6) wwnsih
Stale Miranda Gothen the ch senha ind te Furnishingata
tO Rolando Ynasferrer 1A IGS%- 1960. He stata hed now
Providing OLA and. assistance fo ha former miitary
TEGIMeNt Wo ores in Cube wOrLIAg against Cartro ,
Re thinks. the. group SECKET “"* with FRO,

20


leshe Uwizelman
¥ DCD summery

~ Yarona
Tne Bcd provided the fellowing documents Gack informanhen*

G- memod visit to R.Ruben pe Leen Garcia ,dated 1-ab-oe)

Se leon aftived 1a MAM: and wa entactedbasS-w1. de Leon , because

oF +he cespect he commands from the different Ffauchen jeaders tn
Cuba, Was assigned the mnissicn of eeinging the cial fachons
together in order to expedite she soluhen of the Cucan problem.

He statect the groups in Cuba. nave completed plans te ettecr the

ovecthrous of the Castro regime.
@ memo from miami held office — feporting being contacted

oy Carter Ogden , furmeriy a large landowner in cuon

wo now residingin Mmiussissippt. Ogden was ia Miami
9X & special miussien fc the Sec.cF the Army . Gader impic
that i had something te do with cerisideration of dr. Ruben

Bde Leon Garcia, ar aN important adouer to the US Rem yin
connechon WIth the sihtahen in Cuba.

@ memo dated as vec lqca ce eactegrouna

@ memo oF Cricagoan's Conversanas with va

Or, Martin F.Pella- On a3 Sept 1463 Larom way visitng Chica

ancy told Pella that +ne Peer. ot Honduras had offered him

tne use of an isand off Teaduew as O bwe fer ante Castro
echoes Sin RE yarona wid Pella of difhicumhe encountered oy
us Somnerza in planning rdids on Cuba, Pians were made caiu

we be Gropped because arms exeected from the US govt were

not delivered,

1414004,


soma

" barona

® Interview unth fyermer Bay et Pigs pewoner, —
Edgardo Antenio Buttari . Dec as-ay ,19Ga,
Enlstedin CRP in July 1460. Went tp Suniemala,
a Aug 1860- Oscar Carol Was assigned head yt rhe

Cuban instcuctucs . And eersonne!l at TRAX pase,

Col. Vallejo was Am-otheer in charge, hat in wou 14e0
1 . “
feplaced by Frank who arrived with

“Buen” “Gorden” “Pat ana “c.g. Describe,

Bau oF Pigs
invasion and ofermath,

41440042
