UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 in

Classification: ___ SEEeetT y) :
(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted <). DA

from ClA—controlled documents.)

Cover Sheet

i The attached package of paper is the property of
the House Select-Committee.on Assassinations, and is
on loan to CIA under ‘an agreement whereby CIA is not
to reproduce or copy the draft or any portion thereof.

j Notes may-be taken on materials in this package,
and rough notes flay be prepared as a basis for informal
and oral exchanges with HSCA representatives. These
notes, however, are to be held as though controlled and
are to be destroyed under agrecd conditions with HSCA.
They are not to be copied or excerpted and are to be
held until further instructions are received for
, eventual disposal.

These papers have been numbered for accountability

and receipted accordingly. They are to be handicd on
a secure basis as though constituting sensitive paper:

on a need-to-know basis. -

6 '
i RETURN TO CIA
ee a Background Use O .
ip ee “Do Not Reproduce” Biante Cory G

Classification: eet
i fees “TLL Jeassiied by derivation?

Lot O14 10944



. Aras: an

a Lo. Sha

_°)

i Shen ges [Bare Loetenag a

De pe hr

MvernBey 29, (263
a (130° 7 he {BSE One

S eee eetaegts on. nn tg a


oO. .

cA
Krom P34 -- ate eG lim se
q) ——0- daloe \iar aoe p3e@ lias sm

Pe 1, Attached {s the only cupy In the Azeacy of a memorandum on subject, the
oe . ribbou copy of which was sent to the Attorney General In May af 1962 T'was
-¥——_—__——. vaguely aware of the existence of such a memorandum since I was Informed that
Ie had been written as a result of a briefing given by Colonel Edwards and
a Lawrence Houstoa ty the Attorney Gececal in Mas of last year. 7
bidet 2 Tspoke with Colonel Edwards on the telephone last evening, and. in the
absence of Mr. Bannerniin on leave, { was with Colonel Edwards’ assistance
able to locate this copy. As Caras T ani aware, this is the ouly eritten (aforreation
atallable on Azency relationships with subject. I hope that this will serve your
Purpose.

2. assume you are aware of the nutiire of the operation discttssed tn the attach: .
“gy ent, Qemorundum to Dicector of Ceutral Intellizence, re: Seas Claacasa, from

Melavs, 6/16/63) * SSC, AtigQA vs. pret

a4 LEIS pe Se

i Os NF ecliaky.

—







FF @I- Ga = begianiny raha

A haw
sees ) 44 Qprit re, ee

wth a BL 2

~ he O KRULL QeTONTR _
re Coe) Sheu san momenta

a nonte ane Sek; 2 Tepe Meaice Cosy

pears Th. Commas AIR Corte


oe OAK ae Core Co Coe
. L Eeeuti®¢e order roll, L1tBo, Wovembaraz,

14960358

et meme em 6 ene ipererereerenaiaviae brerecrera eeeremseieaue.,peeiee accel ae et



[0 aT a ET .
an SECRIT

: Berk-writGhissification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Neti,

Purpose and Scope of Study

The Central Intelligence Agency's performance

Sm, ‘~.

in its role of support to the Warren Commission
pene concern during
has been a source of controversy since the past

_-- ftleen Keats 7 7

Fae ELIA tatell Socuap ver ona Critics

have repeatedly charged that the CIA participated
in a conspiracy. designed to suppress information
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy,

During 1976 the critic's

assertions were the subject of official inquiry

Governmental Operations (hereinafter SSC). The

ssc, in its report regarding "The Investigation

of the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy:

Performance of the Intelligence Agencies" reached
Findin
the following Peake So» ¢

The Committee emphasizes that it has
not uncovered any evidence sufficient
to justify a conclusion that there was
a conspiracy to assassinate President
Kennedy.

The Committee has, however, developed
evidence which impeaches the process

NG,

Classification:

Se.

. © Ctassitied G/0:8,8:00.
LI LF I SS FF BF BP SS & |.

j

p

4

4

p

g :

g by the Senate Select connittes to study
,
g

4

g

3

a


; ‘a “GL WU UA GA WA WA. GR.

y

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
trolled documents.)
rom BA GRICE

Ww e intelligence agencies
arrived at thei i

o
3
ce}
wo
uel
d
<
3
Qe
a
$
Oo.
a a

NG

Wat.

tion of President Kennedy from the Warren

Commission. in addition, the Committee has
attempted to determine whether, if the Warren

&
e .
Neti,

Commission was misinformed or no

igation,

the misinforming or withholding of

evidence from the Warren Commission was the

a

NH

Clossit OE) G-Gefjos ——_—


‘ LIF SF MI LI LP LP ke *

eiieeek a)
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

result of a conscious intent to do so by the
Agency or its employees.
The Committee has sought to examine the
issue detailed above in_both an objective
ect EY
and disciplined manner. In order to accomplish
Se eczeuwaduavauduaiTiZSTSTSsisEETEESEIsTa;TGSievanWevseces.— seeps
this goal the Committee has utilized a 1977 Task T=cece
Report by the CIA*sInspeetor-ceweral (hereinafter
TER,
77 J@R). This Report was highly critical of
ertaining-tethe APMASHopecati on
the SSC findings“and asserted that the SSC

Final Report conveyed an impression of limited

Ni, “SGD “Wh SR ‘im ‘<A

effort by the CIA to assist the Warren Commission

disagreement with this characterization of the
SSC findings and noted that "CIA did seek and
collect information in support of the Warren
Commission. Additionally, it conducted studies

and submitted special analyses and reports."
Seoe '

TERK i
(77 $6R, Introduction to Tab E.)

In order to demonstrate further the scope

NeGID..

of support provided by the CIA to the Warren
Commission, the 77 contained a comprehensive
listing of CIA generated material made available

S2ck

bed

y

Classification:

Ne, Na.

i Closed by derive 0002
LF LF LF LF SF PF SF IF I .

s
,

d

é

é

, :
$

;

J

j

4

EN


Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

to both the U.S. Intelligence Community and

the Warren Commission regarding the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy. In this respect,

the Committee agrees with the 77 TE merein

it is stated that "This compiliation (of

CIA generated material) is appropriate to
consideration of the extent of the CIA effort,

to the extent that it reveals something of

the results of that effort." (77 gree ance oa:
to Tab E)

In examining the Agency's comprehensive
listing of CIA generated material referenced above,
the Committee has paralled its review to the
structure given to mens materials by the 77 IGR.

In this regard thee 77 IGR details four inter-
related compilations of Kennedy assassination
material. These four compilations are:

1) Agency dissemination of information my » ¢
to the Intelligence Community (Formal
and Informal Disseminations)

2) Dissemination of material to the

Warren Commission

nt

Classification: ___—S=C RET

00003

Classified by derive 0003

GS,

‘ee,

la


Ciassification:

(This form ig to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

3) Agency dissemination to the FBI et al

Nea.

regarding rumors and allegations
regarding President Kennedy's
assassination

4) Memorandum submitted by CIA to the
Warren Commission on Rumors and
Allegations Relating to the President's
Assassination (77 TGA rnteoauction

to Tab E.)

In reviewing these compilations,

‘i. “OU, i. “Siti.

the Committee focused upon these

RA,

CIA materials which the 77 documented as having

bet
“made available in written form to the Warren

OS.

Commission.

During the course of this study, additional

NAS.

Agency files have been reviewed. These files have
been examined in an effort to resolve certain

issues created by the review of the Agency's Mm 6 '

wh.

compilations discussed in this report. Where

apparent gaps existed in the written record,

files have been requested and reviewed in an effort

to resolve these gaps. Where significant substantive

Neu, | Nadia,

~
a

J Classification: _ See REL
EN

red

Nigite.

0004
SP SF SF §F £29 £2 LIF SF FT

Classified by dorvaeed


a : Classification: ___ 357227 _

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlied documents.)
issues have arisen related to the kind and

AIA,

quality of information provided the Warren
Commission, files have also been requested and
reviewed in an effort to resolve these issues.

As a result, approximately thirty files, comprising.
an approximate total of ninety volumes of

material have been examined and analyzed

in preparation of this report.

The findings set forth herein are subject
to modification due to the following considera-
tions. During the course of the past fifteen

years, the CIA has generated massive amounts of

a Te

information related to the assassination of

President Kennedy. / In spite of the Agency's

Nea.

documents requested by this Committee for study

_and analysis have not been located. Whether these 7

Neen.

documents merely have been filed incorrectly or

destroyed, gaps in the written record still do

5

Secondly, due to dissimilar standards of investigative

SECART / 3

* Eg 5 CIA SKassas. matenals povided theRackstiller

Commission, C1azstticinteRy taining re bisa Sal beranGaciers £

a tqong H i 4 z

Pope Tere StS Coco eerste Secvice defecte)), ;
ies pettai ating fo lve Har Spout dr Ha oats

Piast, A Seer FF wahidns
aeneratebey. AAS fen Cammiss dan buat ce cry nw = Ui eee eee sath

HBA

000005

exist.



Classification: SECRET
(This form is 1 be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
relevancy adopted by the CIA and this Committee,

‘certain files requested by the Committee for

review 1+ -. +L.

aie aise tee have been made available to

a aN

the Committee in a sanitized fashion. Therefore,
to the degreé reflected by the Agency’s denial

of access and/or santization of certain materials,
this study's conclusions are based upon the

best evidence available to the Committee though
this may not be all relevant evidence to which
the Agency has access.

One must, moxeover, give due consideration
to the role that oral discussions, oral briefings,
and meetings of Warren Commission and CIA
representatives may have played in the supply of
assassination-related information by the CIA to
the Warren Commission. The subject and substance

of these discussions, briefings, and meetings mM 4. +

.

re a ee eee T

May not always be reflected by the written

record made the . subject of this study.

GHEE.

Therefore, the Committee has conducted interviews,

depositions and executive session hearings with

ms
& cif Files a aa) to Peni, !
aaw jn nA SA4% Noi ns <
6 Nabi Chgtsifigatigns ce Sey oee 4y Ageaey”
Saaqitizstien of Hy on ore cd
CQET —— Closslied by derivation:

we ASS

000606 #



His & orm ig, 13 8, tied for materiel exiesisd
AM, hea seumeAlt}

key Warren Commission staff and members and
former or present CIA representatives in an
effort to resolve questions that are not
addressed by the written record. The results

of the Committee's efforts to chronicle this

aspect of the working relationship between the
Warren Commission and the CIA will be a subject

for discussion herein.

study as outlined above, in the following general

order of discussion:

1) the organization of the CIA's investigation
of President Kennedy's assassination;

2) the working relationship of the Warren
Commission staff and those CIA representatives

concerned with the Warren Commission inquf®y; e ‘ .

ciate Ye,

3) the standards of investigative cooperation

a
which the Warren Commission staff believed ?

ae

to govern the quality and quantity of
information supplied by the CIA to the

Warren Commission;

Wrat:

= 000607 4
Classification: j
eGL0545 j Glauifisd by derivetign, -C——Berk

ME LE SE LE $20 SF £9 £9 BD .

In addition, this report will examine the
following subjects generated by the Committee's


ay Ey EET <E <a er seer aX Sy
Grassification: Secret __

{ii form is tg be used for mevericl extracted
Um CA—eentrelled decuments:)

~8a-

oth,

4) the CIA's concern for protection of its
sensitive sources and methods and the
consequent effects of this. concern
upon the Warren Commission investigation;
and

5) the substance and quality of information
concerning Luisa Calderon passed to the
Warren Commission and the results of this

Committee's investigation of Calderon

Va. YS WER. GE GE.

and her significance to the events of

November 22, 1963.

- Bea.

TI. (Select Commitke Studi se :
aelect Comm: z a SN :

Information Made Available by CIA to Warren

|
: Ne,

ay Commission

/ —am = gee «(OCIA Pose 2000517 patra
OC beg inning of this SeShiog 6

Cr a

go0g08 =,
Glassification: —soores }
ee 0545 | Ceniied y deel, cpa T

3
3
3
y
3
4
p
p
p
g
p
p

4 LF 52 £8 SB LE Ls My


a 7 ay aT aay ay ae ae

Yy “ “2 “GG “& “RR %* “EE Ye YE “SP YE YE

weak,

Gasification:

ifs form's 18 be used fer materiel exacted!
Fm Cra —eontroned deeuments:) :
To ke inswteA prion hy Section IE

“TL. Organization of CIA Investigation

of President Kennedy's Assassination

In his Executive Session testimony before the Select
Committee, Richard Helms, the CIA's Deputy Director for
Plans during 1963, described the CIA's role in the
investigation of President Kennedy's assassination as
follows:

This crime was committed on United

States soil. Therefore, as far as the

Federal government was concerned, the pri-

mary investigating agency would have been

the Federal Bureau of Investigation without

any question. The role of the CIA would

have been entirely supportive in the sense L) a

of what material we are (sic) able to

acquire outside the limits of the United

States with reference to the investigation.

++. For investigative purposes, the Agency

tee gs ScOhil 990099
Glessificetion: —SS-= 4
| Glzaied by tater, ————

LP LF 4F £9 52 52 LS £9 PE .

RELOSIS

SY

Vaid, EES, GR.

pat.

een’


7 . 2 = Pe sy SX EF
Gressifieation; SECRET

fis form is te be used fer matericl extracted
com Se —centrelled decuments:)

g had no investigative role inside the United
g States at all. So when I used here the
word "supportive," I meant that in the
literal sense of the term. We are (sic)
g trying to support the FBI and support the
Warren Commission and be responsive to
g their requests, but we were not initiating
any investigations of our own or, to my
9 recollection, were we ever asked to.
(Executive Session Testimony of Richard
Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 17-18.)
g On November 23, 1963 Helms called a meeting of senior-
g level CIA officials to outline the Agency's investiga-
EN

tive responsibility vis a vis the assassination. (SSC,

Book V, p. 25.) At that time, Helms placed John Scelso, Meadyitani?
iN @xree
Branch Chief for—etA-operatiens=ii=Mextee;—Gentral ace

Ee
Ameviee;~endfpanana ) in charge of the Agency's initial :

investigative efforts. (HSCA Class. Deposition of John

eat. :

Scelso, 5/16/78, pp. 111-112, Exec. Session Testimony::\_

ee

SECRET, 000610

Glassiiication:
20595 | Said by dete,

LF 49 5 SF ME

~itten:



eases = = ate oe a a Petenn a

3 Sawerek

Glessificatisn:
his form ig 19 be ysed for materigl sxtrocte
& fe, FE ee Rs extases

‘om ClA—contro
rom A— eens jee EN

EI
rit

of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 10.)
Scelso testified before the Select Committee,

that he was given charge of the Agency's investigation

on the basis of two considerations: 1)! Ris prior oy

experience in conducting major CIA security investi- ‘

gations and 2) the observance of Oswald by CIA

surveillance in Mexico, (Scelso's operational concern)
ceaeineeaneeeeinoe :

less than two months prior to the assassination. (SSC

Book V, p. 25, HSCA Class. Deposition of John Scelso,

5/16/70, pp. 111-112.°;) Scelso also noted that

during the course of his investigative efforts, Helms a

theories nor reach conclusions within a set period of.
Hoch Class Dep wf TohnScelfo , S[lo] 73 Pia
time; Exesutive~Session—Testime: i ‘: Soy
‘

8/9/78, pp. 9-10)*

°
* Raymond Rocca, Chief of Research and Analysis for

CIA's Counterintelligence Staff characterized Scelso's
responsibility not as a mandate to investigate but
rather to "coordinate traffic (code facilitation,
telegram or telegraphic consideration) for working
with the DDP with respect to what was being done over
the whole world..." (HSCA Classified Deposition of
R. Rocca, 7.17/78, p. 9.)

- Rocca referred to this phase of CIA activity as
the GPFLOOR phase. (Ibid.)

y

Glossticatign: sonst 000012

: Se

y, ~A “ @ SA &  —— S| GV “GR “Se wo

did not pressure him to adopt specific investigative ~ \°"”

| Canitied by dedxetie. ————

Sasa seins: be


eo

»

. . ae ee 5 biter oe ve sees

eceeas fal oo
wee 7 4 > SECRET
Classification: :

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Scelso described in detail to the Committee the
manner in which he conducted the Agency's investiga-
tion:

+.spractically my whole Branch participated
in the thing. We dropped almost everything
else and I put a lot of my officers to work
in tracing names, analyzing files.
We were flooded with cable traffic, with
reports, suggestions, allegations from all
over the world, and these things had to be
checked out. We were checking out just dozens
and dozens of people all the time. (HSCA Classified
Deposition of John Scelso, 5/16/70, p. 131)*

* . During the course of the Agency's invetigation, Liaison

with the FBI was handled for the CIA by Birch O'Neal.

(Ibid. p. 80.) At the time of the assassination Mr. O'Neal,
a former FBI agent, was Chief of the Special Investigations
Group of the CIA's Counterintelligence Staff. (HSCA Classified
Deposition of Birch o'Neal, 6/20/78, p. 7, 52.) Mr. O'Neal

characterized nis functions with respect to the ageney

as follows:

(This footnote -- Footnote *- -- continues
on bottom of page 5)

909022

Classification: __

2F. 0553 | Clossified by derivation:

a

ere ecreeeeeaee

rem

‘ore NER, Tore, wen

NTA arm, oa. err,

WHT.


wry = = «7 «ay 27 2 a

~5- ‘gECREt
Glessification: — =

{iis form ig t8.be used for matsria! axvanted
rom Cla—eentrslisd dseuments.)

Scelso stated during his testimony that CIA
field stations worldwide were alerted to the Agency's
investigation "and the key stations were receiving
tips on the case, most of which were phony. We did not
send out instructions saying everybody participate in, |

the investigation." (Ibid. p. 133.)- It was ‘his ¢

"#€collection, however, that throughout his tenure as’ (7 3

ar

coordinator of the Agency's investigation, the Mexico

eens

City Station was the only CIA field station directly e
A

Footnote * -- continued from bottom of page 4.

I knew that we (at CIA) did not have the
basic responsibility for investigating the
assassination of the President. If there was
a crime commited in the course of this activity,
4sic) it belonged to the FBI. I recognized that
it was our responsibility to give the fullest
cooperation to the FBI to protect the Agency
with regard to any aspects of our operations,
you understand, and at the same time giving them
cooperation, and I was in close contact with Mr.
Sam Papich (of the FBI), and always fully co®m@ » °
operated, and he always fully cooperated with me.
(Ibid. p. 52.)

Pal ae .
\ O'Neal noted that his office (CI/SIG) at the direction of
the Chief of Counterintelligence, James Angleton, was

designated the central point for collection of assassination-

related information made available to the FBI. (Ibid. pp. 52-53.}

Li

uaa

Glass¥ication: 9006413
2P05 I) j Clsaed by deeien, ————
SI £9 SF 5G LE LE LE SE



y “A S® @ & GS ~ “ “~ “YR “Ss UR wR

Sc 054L)

nao
Gessification; SECRET

(is form is te be used fer materi! axtoated
fam CrA—eentalled dgcuments:)

involved in investigatory activities related to President

Kennedy's assassination. (Ibid. - CCF ¢
During the ikttormhate-be December! > Scelso

issued a summary report which described Oswald's

activities in Mexico City from September 26, 1963 -

October 3, 1963. Scelso characterized the summary report

as incomplete by comparison to assassination-related

TG. UE NEA

information then available to the FBI but not provided

to CIA until late Dec. 1963. (Ibid. p?.114-115.) (CIA

Sea.

ZB
Document Report by John Scelso to C/CI, Be; Dec. 63.)*

Following issuance of this report, Helms shifted ‘J

responsibility for the CIA's investigation of President

oi ra
* Bares

Kennedy's assassination to the Counterintelligence

Staff. (HSCA Classified Deposition of John Scelso,

on :

Cc
5/16/78, p. 136, zt. HSCA Classified Deposition of

Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 15 wherein Rocca states that
i. nr

ieee.

responsibility shifted from Scelso to CI Staff on

January 12, 1964.) Helms testified that this shift in

5c,

* Approximately two days after President Kennedy's
assassination, Scelso prepared a summary report,
provided to President Johnson by Helms. This report v
adopted the go Lon that Oswald probably was a lone
assassin who had no visible ties to Soviet or Cuban
intelligence though such ties could not be excluded

“rm 08 ESHA aHIOHH: SB eiec bhp cf Toro seol9 00014 j

Bw Say

| Geetied by deter, —————

om

AV UD

I I LL a


y @ G&A WD “SE GB “? GE “Ve “AR “S SR wo

a

are

=7y =y = = a oT aE Pia
Classification; —S=C®
iis 7 ee a ig aE used {gr ies satosted

j

focumen:
com ed iScuments:

responsibility was a logical development because the
investigation had begun to take on broader tones.
(Executive Session Testimony of Richard Helms, 8/9/78,
p- 14, see also HSCA Classified Deposition of John
Scelso, 5/16/78, p. 138.)

Helms! reasoning was expanded upon by Raymond
Rocca who testified before the Committee that the
shift in responsibility described by Helms was caused
in part by the establishment of the Warren i ey aaa

fe
(HSCA Classified Deposition of Raymond Rocca. ! 12-13.)

Rocca added:

It was entirely appropriate in the

GPFLOOR phase that he (Scelso) would

have that (responsibility for the Agency
investigation. ) But the minute you had

a commission set up outsilde the line
obviously had to be the Director, and from
the Director to his Chief of Operations
overseas, because the spread involved

then all of the divisions. Here you had
Mr. (Scelso) ieee asked to sign off ‘on-~.. i
cab}es tha “pepsi the} Netherla a, PP °

Te,

wit ke, tral and it would
have=-seemex le.utterly administratively
simply a neeeaa monster. (HSCA Classified
Deposition of R. Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 12.)

ts

James Angleton supported Rocca's belief that "the

spread (of investigative responsibility) involved...

Sa

$4 jane; C2732 2T 000615

Oxs4:
VOR

ee

LT LE LF LE LY LL a

AL


Ghessification: ——s22=33 _ =

ide ig form is fg a z ted for meterigl sxvrested

fF
ie}
froth CrA—eentrelied desuments.)

all of the (CIA) divisions." Angleton testifed
to this Committee that the Agency's efforts to
gather and coordinate information related to
the assassination underwent a metamorphic
transition. Initially, Angleton noted, the

Director, Deputy Director, Division Chiefs and

requirements in a piecemeal fashion. However,
Angleton testified the Agency was eventually

able to focus its resources to avoid duplication

of effort and provide a system for the ‘central
referencing of assassination related information

as such information was developed. (HSCA

Sa.

Classified Deposition of James Angleton,

*
WERE.

10/5/78, pp. 76-77, see also HSCA Classified te i

Deposition of Raymond Rocca, fn178,

aa

p. 23.)

Wie.

vi
wat
gy
y
inn
ed

Wiates.

Glassification: oe
RE OG25 | Caated ty, dtrion,

LY LF MF SY a LE a EL

7
J
$
f
, :
Sg
s
j
p
é
é
EN


l
:
q
is

F

“A
4
:

CRE
Classification: —2&CR2E __
Guile fer mies Be used fer i stil sxvasisd

‘om con:
Om CA—LOAMrales SSEUMEAS:

The record reveals that during this second phase
of CIA information collection efforts in support of
the Warren Commisssion investigation the concentration

of Agency resources shifted in emphasis from exploration

of Oswald's activities in Mexico city te his residency

in the Soviet Union during 1959- 1962 and possible

~

Gh Yh Gl VA ih

ez PFA
association with the Soviet intelligence peed eeu eecwee tae

(Ibid., pp.32-33,44,Executive Session of Testimony of

Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 23.) A TesediRg 4, Rocca, commented

s

SR.

that during this phase primary interest in support of the

Warren Commission was to follow-up on Soviet leads:

- Spapuaa

on the assumption that a person who spends
four years**in the Soviet Union, under his

circumstances, had to be of specific interest

awd.

to Soviet State security and their collateral
authorities. (HSCA Classified Deposition of

+e.
Raymond Rocca, pp. 32-33.) Cseep 1% fee 4) ee

isda,

Therefore, Rocca concluded, the areas the CIA tended

to concentrate on concerned the Soviets:

Go to pF - (OEE Conti meat lon of text

siissah.

000017 =,

fe
|
Se shisha

| Glassifisd By deriv :

LI I LI LE LF A



ee a scastavenaioverasesas:i : ccna seat eeu teeetcraiy oo i

>
g
g
p
p
p
p
4
p
4
p
p

2000835 | Classified by derivation:

SE! LE SE £5 SE TR, Sle LE

a-

SECRET

Classification:

(iis ferm is te be used for material oxtengiadl
om ClA=centrelled documents.)

*The following exchange between Mr. Rocca and Committee
Counsel sheds further light on the difficulties encountered
by the Agency related to its investigation of possible
Cuban involvement in the assassination:

Mr. Goldsmith. Earlier, when I asked you’ which
areas of the case received emphasis, I believe that you
indicated that on balance the primary area of emphasis
was the Soviet connection.

Mr. Rocca. That was certainly the one that I would
say dominated -- looking at it from my point of view.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, had you known about the anti-
Castro assassination plots on the part of the CIA, would
you have given more priority, more emphasis, to the
possibility of a Castro conspiracy to kill the President?

Mr. Rocca. Again, I say that it would have
simply intensified it, that there was attention given
to it, not particularly by the staff. I had no capabilities
on the Cuban side.

The organization of their service and their
operation in Mexico was something entirely entirely (sic)
within -- it was an-enigma at the time. They were just”
getting started. This was WH's area. This was. Win
Scott's area of proficiency. So the defectors had only
~begun.to come out and they came out later, the Cuban
defectors. {

So, I can't -- I really can't say that (a) the
Cuban connection was ignored, because it wasn't. The

press was filled with it at the time.
‘

°
The Harker interview should have been undoubtedly
given greater attention in a generalized sense; but it
was given specific attention, I was told at the time of
the Rockefeller thing.

Mr. Goldsmith. In what way was the Cuban connection
investigated?

Mr. Rocca. I don't know. I don't know this.
That side of the report strikes me as being inadequate.

Peete para SECRET,
Gisssiticatign; ————— 000018

Classified by derivatic

~~
1

Aw

ee ES

Wes.

NERA GSR. SEG R.A,

WHR, Wie SEER.

fai,

wo | NEBR


‘

ee So . wove wee oo ceeds aa

- 9a - i a
Classification: SECRET

(iis form if te be used for motarial anrnatet
from ClA—centrelled documants.)

*The following exchange between Mr. Rocca and Committee
Counsel sheds further light on the difficulties encountered
by the Agency related to its investigation of possible
Cuban involvement in the assassination:

Mr. Goldsmith. Earlier, when I asked you which
areas of the case received emphasis, I believe that you
indicated that on balance the primary area of emphasis
was the Soviet connection.

. Mr. Rocca. That was certainly the one that I would
say dominated -- looking at it from my point of view.

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, had you known about the anti-
Castro assassination plots on the part of the CIA, would
you have given more priority, more emphasis, to the
possibility of a Castro conspiracy to kill the President?

Mr. Rocca. Again, I say that it would have
simply intensified it, that there was attention given
to it, not particularly by the staff. I had no capabilities
on the Cuban side.

The organization of their service and their
operation in Mexico was something entirely entirely (sic)
within -- it was an enigma at the time. They were just”
getting started. This was WH's area. This was Win
Scott's area of proficiency. So the defectors had only
~begun to come out and they came out later, the Cuban
defectors. '

So, I can't -- I really can't say that (a) the
Cuban connection was ignored, because it wasn't. The
press was filled with it at the time. ke i
e

The Harker interview should have been undoubtedly
given greater attention in a generalized sense; but it
was given specific attention, I was told at the time of
the Rockefeller thing.

Mr. Goldsmith. In what way was the Cuban connection
investigated?

Mr. Rocca. I don't know. I don't know this.
That side cf the report strikes me as being inadequate.

SECRET,

Eisssitisatign;s 000018

Wie, Wie

Ne

SE a a

Pini.

num

| Classified by derivation:
2000835 | Glassified By derivati

5S £8 £3 G8 SB le By SE

wal


i - 9b -
Elassifieation: CRET

This form is te be used for motatial extcesed
ma ElA==centrelled documents)

Mr. Goldsmith. Well, when I said to what extent
was the Cuban connection investigated, I don't mean by
the Warren Commission. I mean to what extent did the
Agency provide --

Mr. Rocca. That I can't answer. I certainly
didn't, do it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Pardon me?
Mr. Rocca. We certainly didn't, in R & A.
Mr. Goldsmith. So, CI/R & A did not --

Mr. Rocca. Go into the Cuban side of it at all.
This was something left to the people who were concerned
specifically with Cuban intelligence and security operation.

Mr. Goldsmith. But I believe earlier we
established that Mr. Helms gave orders that information
pertinent to the assassination was to go through your
office, correct?

Mr. Rocca. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. And once information pertinent
to the assassination went through your office, I take (it)
you or Mr. Helms would decide what information would
be relevant for the Warren Commission to see.

Is that correct?

Mr. Rocca. Well -~

Re '
Mr. Goldsmith. Based upon what you knew? id
Mr. Rocca. Well, everything would go, yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Therefore, you were in the
position, it would seem, to know what information was
being generated in the field that was going to the
Warren Commission.

Earlier I asked you which area received emphasis
and I believe you indicated that the Soviet area (did).

Fe ear
Glassiticatign: =~" 900

2800537
‘ lassified by derivati
| Castes By, eeeios, ———

4 &F £9 SF £2 7 > La

sity

SEND. ER SED,

WOR. tk!


y “A D® B® YS VG GA GF WV WW ~R |S wo

-9c-.
Gessificatien: __ss-ost

He form ig te Be used for material extaated
la=cenirelled documents)

Mr. Rocca. Primarily, primarily. But I didn't
mean by that that it excluded the Cuban, because there
was a lot of material that came through and went to the
Commission that concerned the Cubans.

Mr. Goldsmith.” Let's go off the record.”

\ (Discussion off the record.)
anaes os

“—--Mr..Goldsmith. Let's continue.

Mr. Rocca. My recollection is that at the time
the great press manifestation was that Cuban exiles who
were in touch with CIA had been somehow involved in this.
This was the great concern.

Mr. Goldsmith. That's another possibility.
There are different --

Mr. Rocca. Questions went down to WH: do you
have anybody who could possibly have gotten involved in
this kind of thing.

There was extraordinary diligence, I thought,
exercised to try to clarify that side.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you think that the possibility
of an assassination plot by Castro against the President
was adequately investigated?

(Pause)

Mr. Rocca. With the advantages of 20-20 hind-

sight, I could say probably not. But at the time i segms,

to me that they gave due attention to it -- within e
information that I had at my disposal.

Osconid

**In fact, BHO spent 2 years, 8 months in the. Soviet Union

October 1959 - June 1962

SECRET,

Gtsssification: eee EE 099920

20.0833 jee by aedeaem

Classified by derivation:

49 42 £9 LD 4 Ly 2 Gy

NRG NED. WE, We,

ERED. | SED,

r

ae

re

Ne

whi,

4


_in the assassination was very difficult to-obtain.

ag: . . sens
Classification; ___ SECRET

fis farm fs 8 Be used for movarial eavastad
rom Cra—eeniralled deeuments:)

aa.

because the people he was in touch with in
Mexico had traces, prior traces, as KGB
people. They were under consular

cover and obviously could have been

doing and were undoubtedly doing a

consular job in those earlier contacts.
(Ibid., p. 33)

However, Rocca did indicate that Cuban aspects
of the CIA investigation were not ignored “because

there was a lot of material that came through and

De

went to the Commission that concerned the Cubans."

(Ibid., p. 44)

cy

Mr. Helms also testified that the possibility

x

of Cuban involvement in President Kennedy's

assassination was a source of deep concern within the

Sa,

Agency. (Exec. Session Testimony of R. Helms, 8/9/78, p. 21)

Nevertheless, Mr. Helms stated that development of informa-

t aleeeueceesaie

9

tion pertaining to Cuban knowledge of or participation

HERE.

(Ibid., p. 138)
Angleton was in agreement with Rocca's analysis
that during the second phase of the Agency's support

role to the Warren Commission the CIA concentrated its

resources SR ERHSRE gsible Soviet influence on 00 0G21 i

u S27 |e 3 die, ————

SL LI A


aw Y Sy ay ay ay ay ee :

| Classification: SECRET _
g Oswald.

om, €lA=centrelled decuments.)

Angleton, p. 86) He stated for the record

{in form is te be used fer mavenial sxvasted
th regard to the Warren Commission's investigation
(with the CIA's support) of possible Cuban involvement
in the assassination:

I personally believe that the United

States intelligence services did not

have the capabilities to ever come to
an adjudication (of the Cuban aspect).

I don't think the capabilities were there.

os sgmenir hemerp renern

(HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton;
Sa a a aI

10/5/78/ p. 93)

bid

VG VG WR. Wik SA

\
CS

zien BiG

Gilassiticctign: SECRIT 000622

wis.

2000549 | Sesiled by dedveve, ———
49 SF £2 LP 5 ME LE y > oe

y &S 2 SB & “ SX “~
a
wa


e i we - - SECRET, a"
Classification:

gy This fgrm is 19 Be used for mateial sxtested
Aue clA=eentrated documents) a

As noted above, the CI Staff assumed responsibility
in late December 1963 ~- early January 1964 for the
coordination of CIA efforts to assist the Warren
Commission in its investigation. At that time, Raymond

Rocca, Chief of Research and Analysis for CI Staff,

was designated point of contact with the Warren

tot
Commission. (Geepee ree te ee
Angleton, 167/5/7&, p. 77.) Rocca's Research and

Analysis component was concerned with:

“analytical intelligence, analytical
brainpower, which meant all source, all
overt source comprehension; a study of

cases that had ceased to occupy opera-
tional significance, that is, closed cases,
to maintain the ongoing record of overall
quality and quantity of counterintelligence
being performed by the entire DDP operational
component;... the Deputy Director for Plan
(HSCA Classified Deposition of R. Rocca,
9/17/7857 See also HSCA Classified Deposition
of James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 77.)

f
j
j

Mr. Rocca testified that assassination-related

’ .
information generated by CIA components was directed a
to his staff (as designated point of contact with the
Warren Commission) in the normal flow of day to day
900623

Gigssiticatign:

are 052 he

| Castieds ty, cee!

SF SF 5 5G MS a Me ie ie

y *® @® @ @ G@ G | G * | GE


a
y
p
g
y
p
p
4
p

2000825

@w 7 Sy a ay oy ay ae a

Gasification: SECRET _

is form is to B ysed fge materi
(This, fasem, §6 18 stisl exrasise
‘om ClA—con' ots tae et

fom, Ca —conrahed sgcuments.

HSCA Class Depa oC PB. Rocca 7/17/27
work (Sbid., pp. 16-17.) This information was then

reviewed_by R Rocca or his assistan ho included

Thomas Hall, Asoviet Expert), (Paul Hartman (general
Stee er

research and search man for the U.S. Intel. igence

Community and its resources), and Arthur Dooley,’ (who
had transferred to the CIA from the FBI-S number of
years prior to the assassination) (Ibid. p. 17.)

During the course of the Warren Commission investi-

~~
gation, Hall, Hartman and Dooley worked with those

CIA divisions producing substantive information
related to the assassination. (Ibid.)

Mr. Rocca testified that even though
CI/R&A was the Agency's point of reference with regard
to the Warren Commission, neither his staff nor the

CI staff in general displaced the direct relations of

Mr. Helms or any other concerned Agency official with

the Warren Commission. (Ibid.; Rocca testified thatheither

CI Staff nor his staff displaced the CIA's Soviet

Division (represented by David Murphy, Chief of the

000624

avd
ti

iw
wo
a]
waa

leer

|. Clanified by deketies, ————

ME LF £9 AF LF LD LF LD ES .

Neil,

ssi’, Wiis ee a


o -13- .
Classification: ———_= => =<

This form is te be used for maverial eateasted
ma ElA—centralled documents)

assastias

SR division and his assistant, ténnant Bagley) in

its contact with the Commission; noe did C2/R6A
displace John Scelso in his contact with the Warren
Commission.) Rocca testified that in some instances

J. Lee Rankin of the Warren Commission would go directly
to Helms with requests,.and in other instances David
Slawson, a Commission Staff counsel, conferred directly

with ‘Tom Hall of Rocca's staff. (Ibid. p. 36.)*

The record reveals that on certain issues of
particular sensitivity Rocca was not permitted to act
as the Agency's point of contact with the Warren Commission.
He testified that "compartmentalization was observed
notwithstanding the fact that I was the working level

point of contact." (aScA Classified Deposition of Raymond
aeaseaaananaeeassaeeeaeeesiceate ee eeeteeecaeeeeeSt SetseegasgscEG

* Although James Angleton functioned as Rocca's direct
superior during the course of the Warren Commission
investigation, he did not participate on a regular
basis in the Agency's efforts to supply rare
information to the Warren Commission nor did he dea’
on a direct basis with Warren Commission representa-
tives. (excepting Allen Dulles on an unofficial basis;

HSCA Classified Deposition of Raymond Rocca,7£/17/78,
p. 17-18; HSCA Classified Deposition of James Angleton,
10/5/78, p. 78.) However, Angleton testified to this
Committee that he did attempt to keep apprised of
developments as the investigation progressed through
consultation with Rocca. (HSCA Classified Deposition of
James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 81

oe

Wik whet. 9 Wiad.

SECRET ox
+e : . B8B23
Glassi#ficstign: ——————— :

20823 | Sealed by sexeie,
206.08

LY LF £7 LD SO La SE Ly Lm .

” SS SS GS “SS “S “| “SS “2 YR XE YP Ni
saa,


Pistorenete! y- doecatosnaes separ
Classification: ___SE¢R5qi

This form is te be used for motasial eateested
em ElA—centreked documents)

Rocca, 4/17/78, p. 18) Rocca cited by way of example
the case of the Soviet defector Nosenko. Rocca
testified that he did not attend any of the Agency :
discussions. pertaining to Nosenka's case (Ibid.)
Rather, (as it affected the warren Commission investi-
gation) responsibility for the Nosenko case was
assigned to David Murphy, Chief of SR Division, in ~~" "7

addition to rignard-Héeims.CEbIA) : Se eteed

Rocca described the CI staff mail intercept program,

HTLINGUAL, as a second example of an Agency matter

g about which he had no knowledge nor input vis a vis

the Agency's support role to the Warren Commission.
(Ibid., pp. 19-20.) Rather, Jaiies Angleton and Birch

O'Neal handled the disposition of this particular

ORR.

Material (HSCA Classified Deposition of J. Scelso,

5/16/78, p. 113, wherein Scelso states that CI Staff :
‘ °

including O'Neal, was. repository of HTLINGUAL intercepts;

lock See WSCA Class Dep. o€ Bich Olnet ,T( 2078 ppes-B4
whirtin Olnent steses +hak he dik not knew Whether
Barren Bmmissis5 had know | oe the ATLINGIAL
Presram becans? te Gas net hB ces pacsibil ty te prowis
Thal A arten Commi shion with mokerils deci Eran

the RTAINSGUAR pregam

NN

ere

“ip,

‘i

4

md

S
SECRIT

f
No ed

r

Gtassificatiga; ———_____ 909628
2082. ee

4 £2 £2 SE LE SY Se Ly SE .

SN

|


——— yey = aed Fe a a”. ay :
Classification: oa ©

(fi form is 19 be ysed for motets! sateacter
om ClA—<eentrcted aocumantsy)

In summary, it was Rocca's testimony that an internally
decentralized information reporting function best
characterized the organization of this second phase
of the Agency's investigative efforts to assist a

Neti Pepa of Bi bacer, P71 7/75
the Warren Commission. (Ebid., p. 10; HSCA Classified
Deposition of James Angleton, 10/5/78, p. 75, 80.

See also CIA Doc. Rocca Memo for Record, 1 April 1975,

Subject: Conversation with David W. Belin, April 1,

D A 197, wherein it is stated that Helms remained senior
official in charge of the overall investigation,
with CI staff acting as a coordinator and repository
of information collected.)
4
ee
.
€
SECRIT 7
Pee p0eG27 4
Glassificatign: ———
260529 | Cessfiegs ty dechregieg; ———

Y Aw @ GG “SG “GS “~JF “~ “GF “E ~ “2 YD

4 £9 £9 £9 49 4 SB S39 SE .


Gassification: Secret

i i e materi osted
TE Sat gt material enrosts
‘om ClA—controlle men
trom C{A—<ontra ed Seuments

A, Opinions of Warren Commission and CIA Representatives

Regarding Warren Commission-CIA Relationship

The Committee has contacted both representatives of
the Warren Commission staff and those representatives of
the CIA who played significant roles in providing CIA-
generated information to the Warren Commission. The
general cansensus of these representatives is that the
Warren Commission and the CIA enjoyed a successful
working relationship during the course of the Commission's
investigation. (HSCA Class. Depo. of R. Rocca 7/17/78,
p. 18) (See also Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard Helms,
8/9/78, opty 24.) William Coleman, a senior staff counsel
for the Warren Commission who worked closely with Warren
Commission staff counsel W. David Slawson on matters
which utilized the CIA's resources, characterized
the CIA representatives with whom he dealt as
highly competent, cooperative, and intelligent. ® *° ‘ *

(See HSCA staff interview of William Coleman,

eis 7785) Mr. Slawson expressed a similar opinion

regarding the Agency's cooperation and quality

000628

Glass fiication:

accosi? j Gauied by dervtian; —C-—Bexck

MD PF LF PF SP £9 £2 £9 Ge

Y ®S YS @] YB YB LY ES NEP XE XD

a a


AY a a EY 2 2 af ay

sification: _Secret
assification:

This Sen is to be used for material extracted

Si CPA Je rtPobea Wsdighmererial extracted

from ClA—centrolled documents.
=10-

of work. (Executive Session Testimony of W.

David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 17;,see also JFK

Exhibit 23.)
J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel for the

< Warren Commission, testified that the Warren
Commission and its staff were assured by the CIA
that the Agency would cooperate in the Commission's
works (usca Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin,
8/7/78, p.4; HSCA Class. Depo. of John McCone,
8/17/78, p. 9)

John McCone, Director of Central Intelligence

at the time of President Kennedy's assassination
and during the Warren Commission investigation,
supported Mr. Rankin's testimony in this regard
by characterizing the CIA's work vis-a-vis
the Warren Commission as both responsive and ~ : :
comprehensive. (HSCA Class. Depo. of John : i
McCone, 8/17/78, p. 5) Mr. McCone was responsible

for ensuring that all relevant matters were
>
CR up tlow eck ohare ‘i
ae ea thee ee
t
et.

090829
Clusifficsiion: Secret

2CL0513 | Classified by caeteatien:.

49 52 SF SE F&F £9 S92

Cc. Berk
LS

a

Se

Bilis, «Wey, RSI,

1!


Classification: Secret
assification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

He CE naa wlan apotrs! Seed

from ClA—controlled documents
-10a-

conveyed by the CIA to the Warren Commission.
(Ibid., pp. 5-6) In this regard, Mr. McCone
testified that:

The policy of the CIA was to give the Warren
Commission everything that we had. I
personally asked Chief Justice Warren to

come to my office and took him down to the
vault of our building where our information is
microfilmed and stored and showed him the
procedures that we were following and the
extent to which we were giving him -- giving

5
p
p
p
/ :
;
y
j
p
EN

“GE. “ide “ila “Gi.

he was quite satisfied. (Ibid., p. 9)

However, as will subsequently be discussed

git the Sateen cominignns PHL S GRAS Bracers ese Dactenlgmm its 5
Careh All macro lt arbi coninieaiBn elie? that All Relevangy=">

Materials Be Made Promptly Available By

+necia policy cosnot te

Ga GH,

5 CIA To Warren Commission

Mr. Raymond Rocca, © TAC 327 KiMyice di mprnenter of CIA

.@ pesgearas
Polteg oun te eee : i A

ag the Warren Commission investigation,

characterized the Agency's role as one of a
ie)

full support to the Warren Commission. Mr.

Rocca, who served as the Chief of the Research and

us
i)

ee : a —.

QALN5L9

| Glassitied by derivation; —C._ Berk


4
;
s
,

accO520

)
,
j
p
p
p
g :

Classification: Secret
Classification: _
(This form is to be used for material extracted
frig Chkm—dorheoled decinientmaterial extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-10b-

Analysis Divison for the Counter-Intelligence
Staff of the CIA, stated under oath that
Richard Helms had given the following

directive:

i on angths
..(§L1 material bearing fa-amewey Chat
could be of assistance to the
Warren Commission should be seen by cr
staff and R @n@ A and marked for us. He
issued very, very strictly worded

“l- indications -- they were verbal in so

far as'I know -- that we were to leave no
stone unturned.

(HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca,
T/17/78, p. 24)

Gizssifineiien, Secret

| Classified by derivation:

LS LE SB 52 LI LI LI LIF.

DDS

8

Cc. Berk

x

aie ee ea


a

Classification:

Mr. Roca@pisagteds baer uke RitndtARWladdaed Mr. Helms!

trolled d ts.)
orders were £0f The aa eS" ERS foerer dy all CIA employees.

SN

(Ibid. p. 24.) Mr. Rocca concluded that on this basis:

RRA.

"fhe CIA was to turn over and to develop any information
bearing on the assassination that could be of assistance
to the Warren Commission." (Ibid., p. 26.)

A different view of the CIA's role regarding the
supply of CIA's information to the Warren Commission was
propounded by Richard. Helms. Mr. Helms, who served as

the CIA's Deputy Director for Plans during the Warren

NW, “UH WIA,

Commission investigation, was directly responsible for the
CIA's investigation of President Kennedy's assassination And the
25 Fablishmeak of CIA policy vida vin tha Warren Commissiod,
(Ibid., p. 23.) He testified to the Committee that the
CIA made every effort to be as responsive as possible to
Warren’ Commission requests. (Exec. Sess. Text. of Richard
Helms, 8/9/78, p. 10.) Mr. Helms added further testimony
regarding the manner in which the CIA provided its infor-
mation to the Warren Commission. He stated:
An inquiry would come over (from the Warren Com-
mission). We would attempt to respond to it.
But these inquiries came in individual bits an®
pieces or as individual items...Each individual

item that came along we took care of as best we
could. (Ibid., pp. 10-11.)

’ ’

e

However, it was Mr. Helms' recollection that the CIA

provided information to the Warren Commission primarily

NER,

2

rh

er7tit
mzuacd

Classification: ~~" 92063

uw

NGM,

| Classified by derivation:

AI SF LF LF &F £2 79 SF F .


|} SO OT MET SEY ME EY LE AY i
Classification: SSCRET

on the basis ofhignferre dinia ches ured sfos pantqrial extadted cts. Under

from ClA—controlled documents.)
oath he supported this proposition:

the Agency gave the Warren Commission
information only in response to speci-
fic requests by the Warren Commission?

Helms: That is correct.

I want to modify that by saying that

Memory is fallable. There may have been
times or circumstances under which some~
thing different might have occured, but
My recollection is that we were attempting
to be-responsive and supportive to the
FBI and the Warren Commission. When

H they asked for something we gave it to
- them. :

Mr. Goldsmith: In summary, is it your position that

As far as our volunteering information
is concerned, I have no recollection of
whether we volunteered it or not.
(Ibid., p. 34.)

Mx. Helms‘ characterization of fulfilling Warren

volunteering relevant information to the Warren Commission

stands in direct opposition to J. Lee Rankin's perception
of the CIA's investigative responsibility. Mr. Rankin was
asked by Committee Counsel whether he worked under the

impression that the Agency's responsibility was simply to i

respond to questions that were addressed to CIA by the

Warren Commission. In response, Mr. Rankin testified as

follows:

NBM.

Not at all and if anybody had told me that I
would have insisted that the Commission com-
municate with the President and get a different

arrangerqae HECHT One might not ask the right

SECRET | Classified by soc MB 0033

Na.

Me
x g - i. by cose. |
Commission requests on a caseibasis rather than uniformly


LY AY EI LE BF...
assification: Secret
assitication: ‘

(This form is to be used for material extracted

{dis Epc is npohed vedinehrmaterial extracted

from ClA~<controlled documents.
-13-

iin

questions and: then we would not have the

information and that would be absurd.

(HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin,

8/17/78, p. 4)

Mr. Slawson added support to Rankin's position
testifying that Warren Commission requests to the CIA
were rarely specific. "The request was made initially
that they give us all information pertinent to the

assassination investigation." (Exec. Sess. Test. of

W. David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 29)

B CIA's “Failart m Bisclesc 14 antie
a . i i
Carle E533) notin ~ Pisss Te Daren |
i i
Veo mm mi sain : os

4n unfortunate consequence’ of £9 Aen Comeni grios welianse 04
TAL CLA +o peonde t: ay Commi sion Me CTR AE reic YAN

CIA pyakierial jocretic teh fin

“>, “GA “ER “ “Gi. “GE.

the subsequent exposure of the CIA's anti-Castro

Sa

assassination plots Z{ssc Book V) see also(Alleged
Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders, Interim

Aas
L Report, SSC, 11/20/75)7. Paratexteetty;—even-tfi-the .

’

a

a + i. é sor eh
The record reveals tht the
prots, $ze CIA's point of contact with the Warren

i Commission weewkd—set—heve-been—able-to~providenthe.

& wee!

Se @neron a -
ys Gihesi fice: Secret 0000e4
PASSES || Clonritsed by derivation _C-~_ Berk

_ a LF SF A LF a


y
;
}
j
j
p
}
p
}
}

Clos ication: Sécrat
assification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
favs Coamicortpolted vaseudenyssptertal extracted
from CIA~“<éiitrolled doci

~l3a-

Commission with information So TequestedT—As
Mrs —ROcer e Tasemony-revedile,, GE HET ho
knowledge at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation of Agency efforts to assassinate
Fidel Castro. (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond
Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 50)* SE Pp BE

Ve

&

HEIRS
Qheesifficetion:  secrot

200522
didi | Classified by derivation: C+ Berk

MP LE LI PE La

Le

x

a — Wa, | WRN


aa ae LP BF EE a aE
Classification: __ SECRET :

{This form is to be used for material extracted
fram CIA“ Zéhitblled docurtigats:) Ee

Cas pn” CIA's working level representative

Sn Commigsiof been redisted by the

and

ae ee ro assassination opérati, Rocca's
_ eared or Wing eoet” ea
no stantive informa-

efforts’ would have produ

tion. aK ». say

also
The record My reveals that the CIA desk

Conitission,. rese Wand report fo}

“sy,

officer who was initially given the responsibility
by Mr. Helms to investigate : ‘Lee Harvey
Oswald, and the assassination of President Kennedy

had no knowledge of such plots during his investi-

6 tion. HS Class. Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78,
oe pH alY® Dt he Cgacd bo the HALAS aperect on

pp. 73, 14+-412)A Mr. Scelso testified that had he
known of such assassination plots the following
action would have been taken:

“we would have gone at that hot and heavy.
We would have queried the agent (AMLASH)
. about it in great detail.
had him polygraphed by the “best perative
‘security had to see if he had (Sic) been
a double-agent, informing Castro about rs
our poison pen things, and so on. I
would have had all our Cuban sources :
queried about it." (Ibid., p. 166) 98003

“

with,

As the record reflects, these plots were known

by few within the CIA. Mr. Helms' testimony regarding
C4 Rocca scot fied We was notin APT an to ans ser ques Hons re laked te C1 Fass
nakisa piots mgacact Carte bar Mel inese hautte De ane weed Py OTS Who wece sate cnain
Ea mark AMA ne Wand ance Rad od rin nee muatiad® Lads 254)

me meat
Saat Classification: _ SECRIT
*See als? HSCA Classified Peete pee OF anes Angleton, 10/ 57/78,;
pp.o~}twherein Angleton states fray ncdid ot} fps sah SOT
fo as sass Ae Fides Gamtre watil AER ke ees ee by Sar GANA K

LF LD LF LD I LF LI LI LI

» vgiers,

On


y “® “A “A A “A “A “A @ © @ @

Classification: seCREL.

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA=<éittrolled doduiments.)
these plots reveals that the Agency compromised the palray of
yts Pirectocr
its=pidiiise to supply all relevant information to
Cee sratimentet Fonn Munkt, p 1oa herein )
the Warren Commission. The following exchange

between Committee Counsel and Mr. Helms illustrates

the iextent _ ?of the Agency's compromise:

Mr. Goldsmith: Mr. Helms, I take it from your
testimony that your position is
that the anti-Castro plots, in
fact, were relevant to the
Warren Commission's work; and,
in light of that, the Committee
would like ta be informed as to
why the Warren Commission was
not told by you of the anti-
Castro assassination plots.

Mr. Helms: I have never been asked to testify
before the Warren Commission about
. Our operations.

Mr. Goldsmith: If the Warren Commission did not
know of the operation, it certainly
was not in a position to ask you
about it.

Is that not true?

Mr. Helms: Yes, but how do you know they did
not know about it? How do you
know Mr. Dulles had not told heme ar
How was I to know that? And besfes?
I was not the Director of the Agency
and in the CIA, you did not go
traipsing around to the Warren Com-
mission or to Congressional Committees
or.to anyplace else without the
Director's permission.

NARA, «(WEE SA NU. UE CH.

cee,

Mr. Goldsmith: Did you ever discuss with the Director
whether the Warren Commission
should be informed cf the anti-Castro
tion plots?

Classification: 532271
Classified by derivation: DA0637

SF LF LI LE LE LI LI

“eit,


i Classification: 27

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—céntrolled documents.)

oN

Mr. Helms: I did not, as far as I recall.
(HSCA Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard
Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 30-31.4, emphasis
Laded )

Mr. McCone testifed that he first became aware
of the CIA's anti-Castro assassination plots
involving CIA-Mafia ties during August 1963. He
stated that upon learning of these plots he directed
that the. Agency cease all such activities. (HSCA

Class. Depe. of John McCone, 8/17/78, p. 13)

When asked whether the CIA desired to withold informa-
tion from the. Warren Commission about the Agency anti-
Castro assassination plots to avoid embarrassing the
Agency or causing an international coiee he gave

the following response: E

"I cannot answer that: since they (CIA
employees knowledgeable of the
continuance of such plots) withheld
the information from.me. I cannot
answer that question. I have never
been satisfied as to why they with-
held the information from me. (Ibid.,
p. 16)

a ON

NRE

Regarding the relevancy of such plots to eRe °

Warren Commission's work, Warren Commission counsels”

NA.

Rapkin, Slawson and Spector were in agreement that

such information should have been reported to the

wn
wrt
N

Classification:

HRD. NED,

clouiied wy iQO0038

I I MI I LI MI LI LI


ae SECRET
Classification: __._ + """

(This form i Gisenten Sep Peiadal BRetpeeRankin, ¢| 7/7,

from CAR contr pi
Warren Commission. (Exec. Sess. Test. of W.

David Slawson, 11/15/77, p. 27; Exec. Sess. Test.
of Arlen Spector 11/8/77, pp. 45-46; CF, Exec.

Sess. Test. of Wesley Liebeler, 11/15/77, p. 71

a a

: where he states that possible witholding of
information by CIA about Agency attempts to
assassinate Castro did not significantly affect
Warren Commission-investigation)

-From-the-Ciit's—perspeetive,Mr. Rocca
testified that had he known of. the anti-Castro
assassination plots his efforts to explore the

‘possibility of a retaliatory assassination against

fied. He stated that: " acompletely different

’ procedural approach probably would and should have
been taken." (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca
7/17/78, p. 45)

John Scelso,: the above-cited CIA desk officer
'

a

e

who ran the CIA's initial investigation of President
Kennedy's assassination until that responsibility
was given to the CIA's counterintelligence staff,
offered a highly critical appraisal of Helms'

non-disclosure to the Warren Commission:

SECRET

Classification:

ae

Classified by derivation:

a President Kennedy by Castro would have been intensi-

LMI ME I IL LI II


SECRET

Classification:

(This form is to be used for. material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Mr. Goldsmith: Do you think Mr. Helms was
acting properly when he failed
to tell the Warren Commission
about the assassination plots?

Mr. Scelso: No, I think that was a morally -_ ~~
highly reprehensible act, which -
he cannot possibly justify under ‘
his oath of office, or any '
other. standard of professional
public service. (HSCA Class.
Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78)

ert Raspensibt tity
g. “~~. Agency Geneern for the Sanctity ,

H
4

of Sensitive Sources and_ Methods - Factors Affecting

CIA _Resporise to Warren Commission Requests
The length of time required by the CIA to

respond to the Warren Commission's requests for
information was dependent upon 1) the availability
of information; _ 2) the complexity of the issues
presented by the request and 3) the extent to which
the relevant information touched upon sensitive CIA
sources and methods. On the first two points, mrt oo
Helms testified that when CIA had been able to
satisfy a Commission request, the CIA would then send
a reply back:

"and some of these inquiries obviously

took longer than others.
For example, some might involve

cucu
seékua lL

Classification:
099640

Classified by derivation;

4S LF FS LP SF 9 £9 £F

y “Ez W BD SB BW SA QW Sse W BS |W

NRE, NURI“ AL

NEA,

GRR.


Classification: SECR aM

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
checking a file which was in Washington.
Other inquiries might involve trying to
. See if we could locate somebody in some
overseas country.

Obviously, one takes longer to per-
form than the other. (Exec. Sess. Test.
of Richard Helms, aa p. 25)

at
ies the-cTa!s corfSern for protecting its

‘ve sowrces and-tiethods, caused the Warvén
nm to pee ee nc
getting relevant inforna€ion thar when | ‘@ protec-
i tion such ee methods wa$ not at issue.
J. Lee Rankin expressed the opinion that the Agency's
cart Faggh Fo CASH HR AAS SEM SSR FSR SC te) PAF A
+. @€fectatthe quality of the information to which

the Warren Commission and its staff were given

;
}
p
;
}
“$
u

fattal

j
5

- (HSCA 3S. - of J. 8 8,
access (HSCA Class. Depo. of J. Lee Rankin L29/78 1, ede seags

22- ts oe POE UT Sb RES

p- 22) Asa result of #re-6BA's concern,in some Sisvances

the Agency = i é sti Oo on tial,

ed oer gi nalsoace

mae | cce © CIA‘ Materialsyby the Commission. eae 2
prow ie & me

(HSCA ass. Depo. of John Scelso, 5/16/78, p. 15h) ce

re laed
The Committee has identified two*areas of

concern in which the Agency's desire to protect its
con klicth with
sensitive sources and methods impested the Warren

Commission's investigation. These are:

NEP.

o
ys

LST.

wat

wa

Classification:

NUH.

ae

| Classified by derivation:

I I MI LI I LI I LO.

Vv Se “A “S SS KS “A “SS GS “SG S| |G “ER


‘a
f
s
6
p
4
4
p
p
gs
4
y

ae AT 9 7 S_ £2 2 Fa
Classification: ___ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
1) Witholding information from the Warren

am,

Set cg

: Commission pertaining/to -he-phote-
Pa surveitranre[ end ‘teleptiénie'survetttance ' ]

Operations of the CIA's Mexico City Station
2) As a related consideration, the Agency's

ve reticence to reveal the origin of the photograph

now referred to as that of the "Mexico

Cit: stery Man" developed bo ohedas MexicaCety pho fo -
fae Bar yeillance Dost tons adeane ae) a

AAs tnitiak Conesrn fer realy ney

Sen gative Sorc coy DA Mettodls

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence
of sensitive technical operations, as outlined above,

was evident from the inception of the Warren Commission.

Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized

at first to reveal all our technical operations."

(Ibid., p. 158) But Scelso did testify that: 5 wml f
le
We were going to give them intelligence tw ‘{

4) reports which derived from all our sources, oad q

\7" Pk including technical sources, including the® % 3 SiH f

gx N “f 2 ([telephone « Antercept find the information Sy
N gotten from the intérrogation of Silvia
x rod Duran, for example, which corresponded

almost exactly with the information from
C the &elephone intercepts. Jj

rea,

Mr. Scelsco's characterization is supported by
examination of the background to the first major CIA

report furnished the Warren Commission regarding

Classification:

j
o00oe? of

Classified by derivation:


Classification: Pate REL

(This form is. to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
Lee Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (CIA

ener FOIK #509- 803, 1/31/64;-Menorandum-for~d.... Benait
eam

Lee “Rarikin from Richard Helms) Much of the

information provided to the Warren Commission

in this.report was based upon sensitive sources

and methods, identification of which had been

deleted completely from the report.

The CIA policy limiting Warren Commission
knowledge of CIA sources and methods was articu-
lated as early as December 20, 1963, at which
time a cable was.sent from CIA headquarters to
the Mexico City Station which stated:

.Our present plan in passing information
tothe "Warren Cor ission~is to eliminate
mention of[ telephone taps, i in order to
protect your continuing ops. Will rely
instead on statements of Silvia Duran
and on contents of Soviet Consular file

TP ele _— which Soviets gavef 0} CIA-Docs-FOIAy * ioe
a #420-757, 12/20/63, Di 466) 7"

The basic policy articulated in the December
20, 1963 cableAis also set forth; in a CIA memoran@&m ¢
~~" of December once it specifically concerned :

‘the CIA's relations with the FRI, (CIA Memorandum
aa

Goh. NE NA, ND, A I A UR

for File, 12/20/63, (Birch O'Neal, neluded in with Soft
eee iz

file materials) In that memo: anda, Birch O'Neal

2 —

of the CIA Counterintelligence eeeret Investigations

ra
aD
‘<e

Group ses wrote that he had. been advised by ‘Sam
Classification: . «== --7
wae th
Classified by derivation: 08 80064 0. 43

Shih.

MT LT LT LF LT LD LT 7 VT |.

y" GG SD GY GY GW EA GW SB Se wR HR


MT 4 LI £9 LF LY LF LY ae

Classification: “SECREL

(This form ig to be uséd for material extracted
Papich, FBomhittAsennttdlecdhacuGEats.) that the FBI was

anticipating a request from the Warren Commission
for copies of the FBI's materials which supported
or complimented the FBI's five volume report of
December 9, 1963 that had been submitted to the
Warren Commission. Papich provided O'Neal With

this report which indicated that somp United

States Agency was[tapping telephones] in Mexico “>

and asked him whether the FBI could supply the

Warren Commission with the sourc of the({tézephone
Painiitats area

taps7] O{Neal’s_ memorandum shows that he discussed

this matter with Scelso. After a discussion
with Helms, Scelso was directed by Helms to prepare
CIA material to be passed to the Warren Commission.

“O'Neal wrote:

m
rt
os
5O
re
ot
Lows]
o
iio)
Lows]
vos
Ts

Classification:

i Classified by derivation:

I IM LI LL LE

yy, > SA “ “ G GS “A “GS | G “SE “A
. Z .

NSBR,

NEA, NUR, RE,


g
&
$
4
4
4
g
p
4
4
4
4

ae AT AT MT eT a
s

a]

Cc
~~

wm

Classification:

(This form is t6 be used fér material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not
the Agency's desire to make available
to the Commission at least in this
manner--via the FBI-sensitive informa-
tion-which could relate to[ telephone
taps,] (CIA Memo for File, 12/20/63, by
Birch \0'1 Neal,) included in Soft eae materials) *

{pe

ba The opinion expressed by Scelso as of December
20, 1963 was set forth on January 14, 1964 ina
formalized fashion,’ ishen Helms expressed his
concern regarding exposure by the FBI of Agency
sources to the Warren Commission. Helms wrote
that the CIA had become aware that the FBI had
already:

called to the attention of the
Commission, through its attorney,

> that we have information [(as deter- :
Geel mined from Agency sources)} coinciding }
ey ok with thé datetwhen Oswald was in Mexico
~~ : City and which may have some bearing

on his activities while in that area.
(CIA dissemination to FBI, 1/14/64
CIA # CSCI-3/779/510. Foaqiy-4

~ Mr. Helms further indicated that the CIA might
be called upon to provide additional information
acquired from checks of CIA records and agency
sources. He suggested that certain policies be
employed to enable CIA to work cooperatively
with the Commission in a manner which would ty
protect CIA information, sources and methods.
Among the policies articulated were two which
Helms claimed would enable the Agency to control
the flow of Agency originated information. In
this way the CIA could check the possibility of
revealing its sources and methods inadvertantly.
The policies articulated were:

pd
bud
it

Lea)
re
(a)
;

Classification: ——(<‘é GG

| Classified by derivation; —

I I IF DI LS LI I I

Le

*

ah.

NOR. Ne.

QA,


(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—contrelied docunients.)
The CIA policy of eliminating reference to Agency

? sensitive sources and methods is further revealed i
by examination of an Agency cable, dated January 29, "

> 1964, sent from CIA Headquarters to the CIA Mexico — €
Cee att ; AY N ‘

} OF City Station. (CIA Doc. FOIA #298-204, 1/29/647~ y

\ .
| ‘DIR 97829) This cable indicated that knowledge of

Agency sources“and techniques was still being with-

held from the Warren Commission, and stated that on

Ne

Saturday, February'1, 1964, the CIA was to present

: v
4 a report on Oswald's Mexico City activities to the
; Warren Commission which would be in a form f
7 i
protective of the CIA's Mexico City Station's id
4 :

ae sources and techniques (Ibid-) 9 __ ¢
7 a :
: ¥

euch

(Footnote cont'd from pg. 23.)

i

os 1) Your Bureau not disseminate information re~ :
ceived from this Agency without prior concumg , + s 1
rence :

4 2) In instances in which this Agency has provided

information to your Bureau and you consider
that information is pertinent to the Commission's
interest, and/or compliments {sic] or otherwise a
4 is pertinent to information developed or

{ received by your Bureau throug other sources

J : and is being provided by you to the Commission,
ca you refer the Commission to this Agency. In
such cases it will be appreciated if you will
advise us of such referral in order that we may euiteiey
anticjmate.the possible fyture interest of Pan
Commi ss ERS? RG RES 5 peathprenarakory ©
meeting its needs. (Ibid. )act

Clossitied by derivation:

ay AYO:



Need

evar

arvee

“Neusat.

ie = Comm,
of the aboves by PD
4 ae eel
a urceof copeern to tis Committee.
oA oa on oe

(This form is to be used
from CIAéontfolled docii

Téléphone: Taps.

ateris! extracted

Mr. Helms offered testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to inform the Warren Commission, at least

during. the initial stage of the Commission’ s work,

of the CIA' efee1 phonic. and] photo surveillance”

operations in Mexico City.

The reason for the sensitivity
[eelephone | ta

of these

and Burveillance was not

only becyaise it wags sensitive from -the_

Agency' Ss standpoint,

ut theltelephone.

a taps were xunning -in fonjunction with
the’ Mexican authorities nd] therefore,
if this had become public Knowledge,
it would have caused very bad feelings

between[Mexicd
and that was th

Test. of Richard Helms, 8/9/78,

nd .the, United States,
reason. (Exec. Sess.

pp. 51-52)

theCIA' s whwilLingness to inform the Warren

a

indicative. Of an agéncy polity design
Pa

i va oe pants
a stages a igat
endéscribed surveil iénce operdticns is

‘investigation

~

Itwis

ed to skew

al
th it, favor tie form aid ae. of informatimgp

LL
thé a wncgnfortebie etytaing

CcommiSsion. 7
5/6/78, p- ni Ght w

the Warren
Hn Scelso,

al
ell have
a a

°

‘

egese?

Classified by derivation:

y

b

poem

ere ww

paisirciray


j
j
g
p
j

AT A x
SEs

the 7 betwee ae ae
‘ “
| c mn fo Mexiéo Armas“ whi

-randum did not mention that the CIA nad[tapped

Commission and poset discussed the memorandum of

Classification:

7 A This, form is, oRe gd fee meteri IK extrocted q
its investigasion wi a CES .
© trom Cla—-contrdlled dscumentayrncs PEZOFE Lt

As noted previously, on January 31, 1964,
the CIA provided the Warren Commission with a é
memorandum that chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's

Ait
Mexico City visit during September 26, 1963 — ail thrash 1 wh §

(CIA Doc. FOIA 509-803 1/31/64 iieokt Tie
October 3, 19637 That--memorand not Mentions,5- 5
: i er ee

that Oswald's various conversations wit! the. Cuban’

and Soviet Embassy/Consulates had been tapped and §.
PY the Agericy's Mexico City’ Stat
subsequently ]transcribed? Furthermore, that memo-

and] transcribed conversations between Cuban Embassy a

employee Sylvia Duran and Soviet officials at the

Soviet Embassy/Consulate ec act eftion ade i ate

and an Ambassado & s°which the CIA
hadf also fea; id oe eee 7] _

On Pebruaty ty Ger oeae Helms appeared before the

any

January 31, 1964. (CIA Doc. FOIA #498-204, 1/29/44, « ‘ :

DIR 97829) On February 10, 1964, J. Lee Rankin wrote

Helms in regard to the CIA memorandum'of January 31. :
(JFK Doc. No. 3872) A review of Rankin's letter
&
;

wn
vel
ZY
3
at
ad

Classification:

Whe,

093643

Classified by derivation; —

\ £Y £7 £9 £9 £9 £F £9 £7 &F .


ln le ee

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) nw

zs
indicates that as of his writing, the Warren J / ¢ ini
onl
Commission had no substantive knowledge of[ene here ‘ ie?
al
[tetephonic surveillancd Bpetation or the: production

i.e.,/ the tapes and transcripts (fron that operation. ]

5
p

Rankin inquired in the February 10, 1964 letter
whether Oswald's direct communication with employees geo

of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in Paragraph 1 V —
ey

oy

& oll of January 31 memorandum) had been facilitated by +
yutelephone or interview. Manifestly, had “the varred”
Commission been informed of the[telephonic
surveillance]operation and its success inftapping]
Oswald this inquiry by Rankin would not have been

made.

a OS

Raymond Rocca's testimony tends to support
this conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that
between the time period of January 1964 - April 1964,
Warren Commission's representatives had visited the
CIA's headquarters in Langley, Virginia and had fy a

been shown various transcripts resulting trorf the

CIA's telephdnic surveillancefioperations in Mexico

Min NG. NGM.

Ni

?

City. (HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78,

p- 89) However, Mr. Rocca did not personally make

SHIR.

Classification:
09849

Classified by sori IGS9

LF LF £F LF SF SF LF LF &F .


Classification: Séo>-~

(This fétm is to be uséd for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

this material available to Commission representa-
tives and was not able to state under oath
precisely the point in time at which the Warren

Commission first learned of these operations. (Ibid.)

“ERR (“NG HK

On February at 1964 the or “penonded, to ss'3-So8
Rankin's inquiry of February 10. The Agency
response did indicate that Oswald had phoned the
Soviet Consulate and was also interviewed at the
Consulate. However, the Agency neither revealed
the source of this information in its response to
the Commission nor indicated that this source

would be revealed by other means (e.g. by oral

briefing). (Ibid.)

Warren Commission Knowledge cf]CIA Telephonic Surveillance]

During the period of March - April 1964,

among other issues concerned Warren Commission krijw- Pts

NGA, ORD, GR, eR,

ledge of and access to the praduction material

: Roun
derived from the(cra telephonic surveillance] operations

J David Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which
€

ORY,

in Mexico City. A review of these memoranda tends

to support the Committee's belief that the Warren

A

Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman, and

aa

Classification: 7

NO

000050

Classified by derivation:

LI LP I LI SF LF LI I LF .


STATO ©

Classification:

week
= rod

and wittethiafattnieicobegstl Sicwaterial loftiested telephonic
from ClA—c<ontrolled documents.)
surveillance] materials until April 9, 1964. On

that date, Coleman, Slawson and Willens:-met-wit)
i ia
Win Scott,\the CIA's Chief “Of Station in Mexico

eee

City, who provided them with” various. transcripts

and translations[derived fronfera: etephone taps |

of the Cuban and Soviet Oe
Memorandum of. April 22, 1964, Subject: Trip to
\Nexico city pa)

i: Prior tO April 9,it appears doubtful that

the Commission had been given even partial access
ay to the referenced material. Nevertheless, by March
, 12, 1964, the record indicates that the Warren
Commission had at least bécome-aware thatthe cIA

aid maintain telephonic surveillance]of the Cuban
Embassy/Consulate. (Slawson memorandum, March 12,
i 1964, Subj: meeting with CIA representatives).

Slawson's memorandum of March 12 reveals that. the Warren
Commission had learned that the CIA possessed tray Po

scripts of conversations between the Cuban Ambassador
Wea

zy

phe Re eR CORA gudase of the E41 G clefged By derivation;

Ss —_;
ot oT a a ae tn Meat ae ae ort 1a -

y 4 a) As

a MI LF

@e alt to Mexico, Varmas, and the Cuban President Dortico The g
La
Dorticos-Armas conversations, requested by the Warren
inthe :
buch hadbecn sammart zed 10% /) 5
cup '§ Jannsrg Bl Pei Lees 9B i/3'[>
Canceenres sa ae Hwee
fe nM AGO, es FoR:
wh: REL :
(et Classification: csc td -
“Kk Slave sen, we horn V0ke ls esen YAN S Conn on itt é teeta


at

(This form is to be used for material extracted
peat from ClA—controlled documepte Mancha

Commission representatives at nes tins ; with

CIA officials, including Richard Helms, concerned
Silvia Duran's arrest and interrogation by the
Mexican Federal Police. (Slawson Memorandum of
April 22, 1964, pp. 3, 19, 45-46) Helms responded
to the Commission's request for access, stating
that he would attempt to arrange for the Warren
Commission's representatives to review this material.
{(Slawson Memorandum of March 12, 1964, p. 6)

Another Slawson memorandum, dated March 25,
1964 concerned Oswald's trip to Mexico. In that memo
Slawson wrote that the tentative conclusions
he had reached concerning Oswald's Mexico trip, - ‘
were derived from CIA memoranda of January 31, 1964

. and February 19, 1964, (Slawson Memorandum of March

25, 1964, p. 20) and, in addition, a Mexican federal

ted s lortly———"@_ ayes
ee ET ave, an Fre
—y

a a a a a | a) a oe

police summary of interrogatio

Teta
after the assassination{with.. ~

—) Slawson wrote:

A large part of it (the summary report) 7 €
is simply a summation of what the Mexican :

9 police learned when they interrogated Mrs.
Silvia.Duran, an employee of the Cuban
Consulate in Mexico City, and is there-

K fore only as accurate as Mrs. Duran's
testimony to the police. (Ibid.)

NUT:

1

Classification: SEGAL 3
Classified by deriving. 9.9.52 i
LI LI I I IL LF SF.


- 31 -_
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

These comments indicate that Slawson placed

qualified reliance upon the Mexican police summary.

Moreover, there is no indication that Slawson had
been provided the Duraif telephonic. Antercdp!] tran-
scripts. In fact, by virtiie “Of Slawson's comments
concerning the Mexican police report, it would
appear that the Warren Commission, as of March 25,
had been provided-little substantive information
pertaining to Silvia Duran. As Slawson reveals,
the Commission had been forced to rely upon the two
memoranda that did not make reference to the surveil-
lance operations, and a summary report issued by
the Mexican Federal Police. Thus, the Agency had

BE celudoaA ‘i
ee . for over three months ':= . = exposing

: - ectush anbanalysd Ss
the surveillance operations tc the4review of the
: pebble

concerned Warren Commission staff members. As was

3
stated in the~CIA cable of December 20, 196/ to its

Mexico City Station: og

Our present plan in passing information
to the Warren Commission is to eliminate
mention off}telephone taps,)}in order to

protect your continuing operations. Will 4

rely instead on statements of oo

Duran and on contents o t consular
file which Soviets gaye [ODACID-Fiere.
(CIA Doc. FOIA #420-75 0, 1964,

Clapp DIR 90466).

oe)

ECRET
Classification:

Classified by derive U9 E53

4 £7 LS LP LP LP £2 SF LF

Z|

i a i

a a

Naka.


Oa Te em 7
Classification: SECRET

(This form is to be used féF indterial extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
The Committee's belief that Slawson had +
-[yelephense where ]
not been given access to the Duran“transcripts is
further supported by reference to his memorandum
of March 27, 1964 (ee) wherein he states his
conclusion that Oswald had visited the Cuban
ak leet 166 anda /abubly os
Embassy orf three occasions. ‘(Ibid, p. 2) This
A again .
conclusion, he wrote,was based upon an analysis of
Silvia Duran's testimony before the Mexican police.
This memorandum bears no indication that he had

reviewed any of the Duran transcripts. Pu

NG sets,

forroboration or

of his review either by its

a
criticism of’ the above cited Mexican police summary Yeport. 5

: Logically, to the[c: 's a
,etisurveillance oduct#on would hev¥e clarifi: some 5 ¢ *s
& o7 ?

a

ar : raeraers ff
x ambiguities. For: example,

°

Memoréndum of cae 21, 1964, subj:[meercepts }y

=
. . . . ‘ae e
rom Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico, p. 2) sane tot ace
SECR2T
Sgedies xa
Classification: 1 080054

Classified by derivation:

» LY I LF LF LF £9 FI SF ,


» LY LF LI LI LI ME LI I

PAnIDeS bE PO VitricPCRAESEY and

from, aS) Settee documents.’

stated that wa was préséntly at th
requesting an if-transit fon to

Silvia Dunanis 4

Cuban Embas

“to be ggwald. Again on eptember 2 at ll: a.m. .

un
a
uy
oO
o
8
=
p
an
7
or
oO
iad
a
oO
cr
4
B.
o
a
fom
Ke
rey
aa
oe
oN
3
y
£
&
n
ct
a
oS a aa.

Duran* Ae the oviet Consu¥ate statjng that

an 7 subsequently ident}#fied by @IA andlysts
as Oswald was at ie Cuban Embassy. (Ibid. p. 4) eee

/ iirc J Bsualgh visits pette Cvean Fmbassy
Had this’ ee mdde availgble to/Slawson,

his va ea s of oe, near mae in Mexico

City would have been moré firmly established than
Fe etleced in R&S meme tanduns

they were as*of March 27, 1964.

NR, (NIE.

The record supports the Committee's finding
that as of April 2, 1964 the Warren Commission had

still not been given access to the aboverres FS552: SER ote Caisee

be |

oft: SOU, v ai tos
series[oriftelephonic intercepts my ae of
that date by Coleman and Slawson, posed one
question to the CIA and made two. requestsfor information
from the Agency. (Slawson - Coleman Memorandum Oley fi :
April 2, 1964, Subj: Questions Raised by the Ambassador

Mann File) Coleman and Slawson wrote:

1) What is the information source referred

4
;
2

to in the November 28 telegram that

CS erate tae
Classification: oe 000033 3

Classified by derivation:


j

2

3

<LI AF verge ean ce i MI SE Lv

Classification: SECRET

(Giwdard isnteohdeded: dors @vtetial auvasteth

from ClA—controlled documents.)

Odessa;

We would like to see copies of the
transcripts [o£ the intercepts] translated
if possible, in all cases where the
[intercepts] refer to the assassination

or related subjects;

We would especially like to see the
[intercept] in which the allegation that
money was passed at the Cuban Embassy

is discussed (Ibid.)

The question initially posed by (Item I) in

the above-referenced. memorandum of April 2 concerns

the[ CIA telephonic intercep] of September 27, 1963

at 10:37 a.m. (Slawson Memorandum of April 21,

1964, p.

to request the source of the information, he had OC.

1) Obviously, if Slawson found it necessary

ha

not as yet been provided access to the original }(“’~ {

he

material by the CIA. te ‘

Item Number T&T

that the Comm.

eee

-

Classification: SECRET 000056

Classified by derivation; —_—

» LI LF AY £7 SF SF £F £7 £7

of the above-Tisting oo
_

< at rissa} Pal A
ion had not been giving access to the[interseg

Se a a a TN

* NES,

Swan.

B

NE Nee.

Neate


~ =p ~ seers enesers = ae 4F a Me at eee =
RET.

Classification: _ g3CRe

(This form is to be used ft material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Item number three of the above listing
reveals that[ the intercept] és Jene Dorticos-Armas
conversation of November 22, 1964, in which the

passing of monies was discussed had not as of April

2 been provided to the Commission. The Commission

had specifically requested the Dorticos-Armas

AGB,

transcripts at a March 12, 1964 meeting between
Commission representatives and Agency representatives.
(Slawson memorandum, March 12, 1964, Subj: Conference
with CIA on March 12, 1964

On April 3, 1964, Coleman and Slawson expressed
their concern for receiving complete access to all

materials relevant to Oswald's Mexico City trip:

a a a

The most. probable final result of the

entire investigation of Oswald's activities

in Mexico is a conclusion that he went

there for the purpose of trying to reach

#

Cuba and that no bribes, conspiracies, eo» . 5

etc. took place.

-.-In order to make such a judgment (that Z

all reasonable lines of investigation that re

might have uncovered other motivations or ¢
}

4 Gee ee 009057;

Classified by derivation:

» LI & & SF LF  &F LF sF .


Classification: SECREL

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

possible conspiracies have been followed
through with negative results), we must

become familiar with the details of what
secome familiar with the details of what

both the American and Mexican investi-
sok ene American and Mexican investi:

gatory agencies there have done. This
means reading their reports, after trans-
lation, if necessary, and_in some cases
talking with the investigators themselves.

(Slawson and Coleman Memorandum, April
GD ott (#3, 1964, Subj: Additional lines of

Investigation in Mexico Which May Prove
Omphasis adeled
Worthwhile, p. 11.)
halon aA Hwki be Sho
Howe; a Manétfestty, Coleman's and — s ear

a a a a

for a thorough investigation
14 i £. se cn ae © septate a ha | em TRL 205s
Lm pesen® the CIA's concern Test its sources and methods,

however relevant to the Commission's investigation,

Nea,

bewexposed. Considering the-gravity and signi-

&
&
Nett,

ficance of the Warren Commission's investigation

. the
niticd 21 gi tad S0uACE €
Agency! sawitholding of” material from the &
meg have impeded its ah, |), 7o reach, fb
Commission staff was‘elearly—impreper.
| a Cour els Rasoned Conclasrons with Cecpect to Oswald's

Activity while in Mexico Ce.

Classification:

009058 ,

Classified by derivation:

AE LF LF FT LF LF FF aT 7


NL LF LF £F LF SF & &F .

an!

Classification: = 2

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—congalied documents.)

On April 8, David Slawson, Howard Willens,
and William Coleman flew to Mexico City, Mexico
to meet with the representatives of the State
Department, FBI, CIA, and the Government of Mexico.
(Slawson Memorandum, April 22, 1964, Subj: Trip
to Mexico City, p. 1) Prior to their departure,
they met with Thomas Mann, the U.S. Ambassador to
Mexico during Oswald's visit to Mexico City and at
the time of President Kennedy's assassination. (Ibid.)
Ambassador Mann told the Warren Commission representa-
tives that the CIA's Mexico City Station was actively
engaged in photogurveillance operations against the
Soviet and Cuban Embassy/ConsttatestIbid., p. 3)

Upon the group's arrival in Mexico City, they
were met by U.S. Ambassador Freeman, Claire Boonstra
of nine State ie beeenet Clarke Anderson of the FBI,
and winston Scott of the CIA (Ibid. pp. 9-10)

eee eee
That same day during a meeting between. the FR lg.

Commission representatives and. Win Scott, Scott made

available to the group actual _transcripts[ot the CIA's

~
telephonic surveillancd-opérations accompanied ee

“~~ (thd

Engli'sh—translations of the transcripts. In addition,

Classification:

009059

Classified by derivation:

Nes

Nae,

eS Ce

4
2

Nin


Classification:

Ci EORR
A~contfolled locuments.
for the time period covered by” a

1 he proviadat form, Bo ig bs spd fee fe"we SHES GLaphs

that had resulted fron 1 photosurveillance’ of the
iene «A
Cuban and Soviet Embassy ee sae Slawson

wrote: eae
“ ...Mr. Scott stated at the beginning
of his Warrative that he intended to make
a complete disclosure of all facts,
including the sources of his information,
and that he understood that all three of
us had been cleared for TOP SECRET and
that we would not disclose beyond the
confines of the Commission and its
immediate staff the information we obtain-
ed through him without first clearing it
with his superiors in Washington. We
agreed to this." (Ibid.)

}
j
5
;

NBA.

Mr. Scott described to the Commission repre-

Atle sky
sentatives the CIA's course of action 1: = ee

_€
following the assassination, indicating that his >
staff immediately began to compile dossiers on “i
Oswald, Duran, and everyone else throughout Mexico x

whom the CIA knew had had some contact with Oswald
(Ibid.) Scott revealed that all known Cuban and Russian. ~

: Ly ier coin)
intelligence agents had P quickly , been put under

surveillance following the assassination. Slawson

concluded : ia

i “Scott's narrative \plus the material we
\. were shown disclosed immediately how
“\incorrect our previous information had

! Been.dn Sv8 ahdys contacts with the Soviet
@ gt and Me Embassies.” Apparently the
= Classification: Ss it
Thepekertnce ghowth bate Cibaa © 30 Fa
Clossiied by AAR 5

- IT LI FOI I IF Le |


Classification: GS ECRE i

(This form is to be used for material extracted
disterx tiongoapiledtticsadans to which our
information had been subjected had
entered some place in. Washington,
because the ClA>information that we
Were shown by (Scott) was unambiguous on
almost all theSerucial points. We had
previously planned to show Scott, Slawson's
reconstruction of Oswald's probable ,- aay
activities at the embassies to get Scott's
opinion, but once we saw how badly distofted
our information was we realized that this
would be useless. Therefore, instead, we
decided to take as close notes as possible
from the original source materials at some
later time during our visit." (Tbid, | p. 24)

No,

« A separate Slawson memorandum of April 21, 1964 records g

the results of the notetaking from original source

_ a,

materials that he did following Scott's disclosures.

“These notes dealt exclusively with the[ telephonic
intercepts] pertaining to the Duran and Oswald conver-

sations for the period Sept. 27 - Oct. 1, 1963.

AE (NG,

(Slawson Memorandum, April 21, 1964 Subj :[ Intercepts]

from the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in’Mexico City.

It is evident from Slgwson's r the
ret ye Enee 43, Pads he heb 640 Comms. ar TK

source Cie in is
A ecuidy

excepts]

NYA, SR,

the Commiss¥on's ability’ to draw 7

NGPA

ed conclusigfis regarding/Oswald's 7 in
,

co City. It/meant that ,as of April,

1964,

Was

\ a: 7 ee a ae
Re ait eee SECRET 4
cS" Ae" Classification: 7 =~ *2 a00061 3

Classified by derivation:


~ provided.

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

nearing the mine? point of ae 7 rren Commission
ae we rat pecesSar-y

investigation, oe was—forced:to retrace
the factual pat by which it had structured ange
activities in Mexico City. further revealed that
the Agency 7 d provided amb foo information to

the Commissfon when, in we + “on almost Ae the
erucial p a Signi Figgntly more precise materials.

could haye been made available for analysis by the

us, the. Agency } S.early policy
q LAINGL SUCHE

of not/ providing. the/Commission with /viedtty—retevant
from. aemewin~seasitive-sources

OF AS
Afoepetion aesive r.
ona pocnod hal as

and; possibly forgolosed lines of investigation e.g.,;

Commission. (Ibid.)

the investigation

E i :
Cuban involvement, that might have been more seriously
7 7 ¢

fe ? Z Apert
considered had‘ this material been expeditiously

ane
Mexico City Sthion Pie pesucyet ace Ana ha

: Hexteo-Gity-Mystery—Nen the faye eph oe the ony Ager. Eek

Padus ee
On November 23, 1963, FBI Special Agent Odum

showed Marguerite Oswald a photograph of a man

bearing no physical resemblance to her son (Warren

gat

Secu

iT.
Clossitied by derivaridl. BOG S2

fa

Classification:

“OR

“4


— MF AY LI LF MI LY LI L £F ~

at

ig: : ks ec web

: Classification: SEC

: 9 eee ipt toa bey usedyfess motesiok gekedet, ad been g
: nega from ClA—controitac documents.)

Yas Supplied-to-the-FBI on November 22 by the CIA's

selhr( Mexico City Statio jafter Agency representatives ;

Had -searched-their os in an effort to locate
Ibid.
Get information on Oswald? (CIA Doc. DDP4-1555, 3/28/64, i

4 ae
Ook Warren Commission Doc. 67) A this photography which Was-cone
in a series resulting from the CIA's photosurveillance “

Nea ene ;

eC sperations against the Soviet and Cuban Embassy @emsatotesy

an :
{ Prior to the “assassination, had been linked by
Se —,

Richard-Helms, in a sworn affidavit before the Warren

Commission, stated that the photograph shown to
out Seke of HHO CoTbirQw

Marguerite Oswald had been taken en-October 47196
giek act See ee, Ee genio ST

n Mexico City aid Wistakenly—linked—at—that—time—to

V1 3 +o Norember 23 1408
Oswatd: . (Warren Commission Affidavit of Richard Helms

oF DWollenComnis$ on iLar Ags

8/7/64, Vol. XI, pp. 469-470)

9

prey
the Mexico City Station to Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.) 5
€

6

On February 10, 1964, Marguerite Oswald testified
before the Warren Commission and recounted the cir-

cumstances under which she was shown the photograpy. Poa e

y
g

(Warren Commission Report Vol 37153) Mrs. Oswald testified
that she believed this photograph to have been of Jack

Ruby. (Ibid. )*-

Neath

g vote coe Pepe POY #
pula 990063
Classification: peta ;

Classified by derivation: i

- 2 LF LI LI SF LI LF SF SF.


¢

TT LI LT MT SF MP OY ae
~ “SECRET

: Classification:

(This férmm is to be used fét material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Thereafter, on February 12, 1964, J. Lee
Rankin wrote to Thomas Karramesines, Assistant DDP
requesting both the identity of the individual
depicted in the photograph and an explanation of
the circumstances by which this photograph was
obtained by the Central Intelligence Agency.
(Letter of J..Lee Rankin, Feb. 12, 1964, JFK Doc.

aw #3872) FolA $43- 283A

On that same day, in a separate letter,
Rankin wrote to pcr McCone regarding materials
that the CIA had disseminated since November 22,
1963 to the Secret Service but not to the Warren
Commission. Rankin requested copies of these
materials which included three CIA cables. The
cables concerned the photograph subsequently shown
by the FBI to Oswald's mother of the individual

originally identified by the Mexico City Station

, ‘ e
as Lee Harvey Oswald. (Letter Blane Lee Rankin fee :
G+ ven. 12, 1964, PK Doc. #3872) 34!" aad
K
a
& «x Among the ugh ices ape disseminated by the CIA

hide Hort © Cob of Beats Od
e @rvice was a November 26 dissemination.

to

DB © (cIA Doe DIR 85177, 11/26/64) That-cable concerned
oe Fai 106-851

Classification: Zz

099054

Classified by derivation:

LP £2 SF SF SF SF LF SI FF

x

‘eek ‘Gh. SR. ‘ate, NG, TOIL Na, Net

NOR. NGM.

od

eRe,


~ 43 -

aT LT AT AT LY ST LY ie :

Classification: S

(This form is to be used. for_material~extracted

the Dorticpg mamas. oRPORG USAAF and disclosed~ ‘the

existence of[CIA. telephonic surveillance] gperations ]

NAM.

Sata,

in Mexico city at the time a the assassination
ieee

g and Oswald's earlier visi (Bs a result the CIA was

reluctant to make the material disseminated to

ND,

the Secret Service available to the Warren Commission
for in so doing the Agency would have necessarily exposed [its,,

é@lephonic surveillance operationgfto the Commission.

ce John Scelso testified regarding the circumstances
surrounding the eventual explanation given to the

Commission .recounting the origién of the photograph in

question. Scelso stated:

‘GO, WPI, | NR.

“We did not initially disclose to the
Warren Commission all of our technical
operations. --In other words, we did not
initially disclése to them that we had
photosurveillance because the November

. photo-we had” (of MMM) was not of Oswald.
Therefore it did not mean anyth in

3 see2"7 H SCA Class Depo of Sohn Sa Gfieft4 pisB)

Mr. Goldsmith: ...So the Agency was making a unilateral
decision that this was not. relevant to the Warren

Commission.<rk.d

 NGOKE,

‘
}

ir

Scelso: Right, we were not authorized, at first,
to reveal all our technical operations.
(BEEPS ST “DEPOT OLSON SCSTSO™57 16/7 8 ,
Beda bik

In summary the records shows that
By February 12, 1964 the Warren Commission had

production, a cause for concern within the Aer

Classification: __ SECAET g
000065 7

Classified by derivation:

3 inadvertantly requested access to[tetephonid] surveillance

LF LF £9 §F £F SF SF £97 &@ .


,
§
j
y.
f
j
4
p
pe
p
j
y,

oS ED EI BD WI FO my <

Classification: Secret
assification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
tibia Coa_iortrolted weeuchentmpterial extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
=44-

Nake.

due to the sensitivity of Agency sources and methods...

Similarly, the possible disclosure of the photosurveillance
ft

operations to the Warren Commission had also begun to cause

concern within the pane

On March 5, 196", Raymond Rocca wrote in an

internal memorandum to Richard Helms that "we have

a problem here for your determination." Rocca

oN

outlined Angleton's desire not to respond directly

to Rankin's request of February 12 regarding the CIA

‘Git

Material forwarded to the Secret Service since

A
November: 23, ised Rocca then stated:

Nyaa

“Unless you feel otherwise, Jim would

prefer to wait out the Commission on the

matter covered by paragraph 2 (of the

above-referenced February 12 letter to McCone :

requesting access to CIA reports provided i
y. 28 aah Secret Service after November 22, 1963, }

4JFK Doc> 3960). If they come back on this i

point he feels that you, or someone from

here, should be prepared to go over to show

the, Commission the material rather than pasg®

e
ME

then to them in copy. Incidentally, none i
of these items are of new substantive |
interest. We have either passed the material /

in substance to the Commission in response to q j
earlier levies or the items refer to aborted 7
leads, for example, the famous six photographs

which are not of Oswald..." IA Doc. BOTA”
#579-250, 3/5/64;)see also HSCA Classified it
Deposition of James Angleton, 10/5/78, pp.:3/-/3=

oN

Creasifieation: —sectan i 000686 J

| Classified try dlatieation: C- Berk

LD LF LF LF LF LF LF £9 &F .


—aey i
a <T LT aT LD LF EP FY
Classification: _secret
Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
{firs Cbkm-tontoolted dedinientsjaterial extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
"  24da~

wherein he states that the only reason uf
for not providing the Warren Commission with
access to CIA surveillance materials

was due to the Agency's concern for

protection of its sources and methods)

Gil, Rta

“iin Nein, Wein Gin

a
aap

Neen Nera 0 “eon,

SECRiT 809957
Gasifination:
Classified by derivations

l
yo
p

LI LIL II I a


" SECRET

Classification:

(This form is to be used fd# material extracted
from ClA—conirolled documents.)
On March 12, 1964, representatives of the
Warren Commission and the CIA confered regarding
the February 12 request for the materials forwarded

Dok te the Secret Service by the Agency. (Letter of
Fol Ge4-256

©
9

J. Lee Rankin March 16, 1964, JFK Doc. 4 3872, Slawson
Memorandum, March 12, 1964)
The record indicates that the Commission at

the March 12 meeting pressed for access to eae at

SASSI 6 it En ot eA TUN

Secret Service materials. Rankin wrote to Helms

on March 16 that it was his understanding that the

each report or communication pertaining to the Secret
Service materials "with all indications of your
confidential communications techniques and confidential

sources deleted. Yiou will also af fford me —

our staff working in this area an opportunity to
review the actual file so that they may give assurance /
f a ‘ ECEE OF
/ 4 se that the paraphrases are complete. (La er or J. yee, '

{ Fa2ik 221- 25¢ wi
7 Rankin, March 16, 1964, paragraph 2, JFK Doc. No.3872)——

Rankin further indicated that the same

g CIA would supply the Commission with a paraphrase of

procedure was to be followed regarding any material

in the possession of the CIA prior to November 22,

Classification: Glin les 008053

Classified by derivation:

=

j

“i, SR. SW A.

No.

a a LT LI MT La


Classification: S SCREL

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
1963 which had not as yet been furnished because

it concerned sensitive sources and methods. (Ibid.,
par. 3) (

Helms responded to Rankin's March 16 letter

O- \< on March 24 (FOTR-F 6ZZ=Z5B) by two separate
0 « -FolAGaa -25&

~ communications. (CIA Doc. DDP4- -1554, hereinafter cbr 631,

a oe F318 b 21-25%

oe 3/24/64, CIA Doc., DDP4+1555, 3/24/64, CD 674 hereinafter)
CD. 631 provided the Commission with a copy of the
October 10, 1963 CIA dissemination to FBI, State Dept.,
INS and Navy Dept. (and to the Secret Service on
22 Nov.) regarding Lee Harvey Oswald and his

Cops! )
at the Soviet Consulate in Mexico City. The response
B

presence -

io) i¢ further revealed that on October 23, 1964, CIA had
UY fyon the Navy
i requested two copies of the most recent photograph

of Oswald in order to check the identity of the person

Ley ¢
believed to be Oswald in Mexico City: Furthermore, g
the CIA stated, though it did not indicate when, that
it had determined a the photograph shown to Maf€uewit& + ;
(® 2& Oswald on November oe, 1963 did not-refer to Lee
at (see bese ngs - Voll, por)

Harvey Oswaldte tithe Agency explained that it had checked the é
photogray

against the press photographs of Oswald generally

available on November 23, 1963,7

pi as

CD 674 reveals that on Nov. 22, 1963 immediately followe

Classification:

o0o0s9 3

Classified by derivation:

En DS II I LE I MF eF .


Arrasaery aeoR EL
Classification: SER es

(This form is to be used- for material extracted
the assassp as On MeP boa avarper 23, 1963, three

cabled reports wera

NG,

céived at CIA headquarters

from the CIA Mexico City Station regarding photographs

of an unidentified-man who had visited the Cuban and

: : ; Bett:

Soviet Embassies during October and November 1963.

Paraphrases of these cables, not revealing sensitive
ik

sources and methods, were attached to CD 574. The

Agency wrote’ that the subject of the photo referenced

in these cables was not Oswald. It was further

stated that:

"In response to our meeting of 12 March and
your memo of 16 March?\/Sterhn and; willens
fo yak review at Langley the original copies
ci of these # disseminations to the Secret
Service and the cables on, which they were
based,.as well as the BNOESSTSE the unidenti-
fied man" (CIA-Doe:-—DDPE=1555 CD634, 24
March—396 4) Cathet are in ourfiles fo
Tid

br

&
©

3
g
g
gj
J
j
j

-On March 26, William Coleman wrote in a memorandum

for the record:

NEG, | NGS,

"The CIA directed a memorandum to J. Lee Rankin
7 (Commission Document No. 631)

in whith°it-set forth:the dissemination of, : ¢
the information on Lee Harvey Oswald. I rive . 2
that this memorandum is only a partial answer
to our inquiry to the CIA dated March 16, 1964
and I hope that the complete answers will give’ £
le us the additional information we requested." &
® Cl (Memorandum of William Coleman, March we 1964) y

Coleman went on to state:

"As you know, we are still trying to get an
explanation of the photograph which the FBI
showed Marguerite Oswald soon after the

eel net

Classification:

NG

Classified by der BOG79
LF LF SF LF LF I SF FT  .


aT AT LT SF LF LF 7 I LF ~

gj
g
j
3

- 48 SECRE yi
Classification:

(This form is to be used fdr ffiaterial extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
assassination. I hope that paragraph 4
of the memorandum of March 24, 1964
[cp 631] sent Mr. Rankin by the CIA
is not the answer which the CIA intends
to give us as to this inquiry." (Ibid.)

Pacdk27

The following day, as. agreed by Warren Commission

and Agency representatives, Samuel Stern of the

Commission visited CIA headquarters 3 in inate
Mohn

Virginia.

Sterns’ Bonet anean of his visit reveals be

indicated that Oswald's file contained those materials

furnished previously to the Warren Commission by

cam A
the CIA.“ The file also contained:

ge th Gator n Mexico
roe >

: 4 ee
0) ok aoe reports‘of November,22 and-tevember

: 03

23, ' Lom the-CEA's vdieo -Gity-Stetion cesar}

a Pee wie had vf. red
relat ating to the photograpis of the-unidenti- :
we ha ak cer et Emenee Auer Oo ctomar Ard oem $i

fe sed-individual-mistakenty-belteved-to-be

he reviewed Oswald! s file with Raymond Rocda”” “stern 5

7 art \Se
Lee-Harvey Oswald /and thé reports on thdse

C/A :
a! urnished on November 23 1963 “5
cables furn. ane aaa pat Peek p. 5
the Secret Service,
— PAGE NAS vaactta po in S : ‘
Samual sede Marcie 27-1 i
of : 7 &
Stern noted that these messages were accurately ¥

paraphrased in the attachments to CD 674 provided the

# Faragepn dof cp G3l 5 ted thot CIA concludecl Vo

hf unidentified Adividucl Aid not dep it
uae atp Pasiteand On. phe tescechs of Cowal
Bi ena STS

nae fa gaa
Bue L Clessiied by deriva 0074 _

LI LI I MI LE LI La


Classification: BF gecak 1.

(This fori is to be used for baie extracted
Warren Condisrelénr<onaled ceeamertsi96 4 ? He also

@

reviewed the october 34, 1963 cable from CIA's

Mexico City Station to © CIA headquarters

reporting Oswald's contact with the Soviet Embassy
Shia

in Mexico city join addition, Stern examined the

SR NR,

October 10, 1963 cable from CIA headquarters to

the Mexico City Station reporting background infor-
mation on Oswald." (Ibid.) Stern recorded

that these messages were

fer red

Bolt paraphrased accurately ag-set—fexth in the CIA's January

NWP . With.

31 memo to the Warren Commission reporting Oswald's
Mexico City trip.r bia
Lastly, Stern noted that Rocca provided him

for his review a computer printout of the references

a

to Oswald-related documents 7 in the Agency's

electronic data storage system> “He stated "there is

?

a 5 no item listed en-the-peinteout whieh fthe Warren Com-
(3 id \— missionl Aways been given either in full text or. é
~ Pia 4
paraphrased." (Ibid..) : nie P
Thus, by the 27th of March, a Warren Commission é
representative had been apprised of the circumstances 5
surrounding the mysterious photograph.

Classification: _SZ¢R.2T.

da ee

Classified by derivation:

I I LE LI ME LL;


TT A BF SF LF LF LY iF

- 53 -° cRET
Classification: ___SECREL

(This fort is to be used fot material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

s
—- +. Luisa Calderon

Approximately five hours after President
Kennedy's assassination a Cuban government employee

in Mexico City named "Luisa" received a telephone

call jE rom an identified man speaking Spanish.
ee err
& »{@ (CIADoc. FO S, 11/27/63, 173-615, aetectment)

NG, NUS Ns WH,

[this call had been intercepted and recorded by the
CIA's Mexico City-Station as the result of its
LIENVOY (tel. tap) operation] (Ibid.) The Mexico
City Station,as subsequently reported to CIA

headquarters, identified the Luisa of the conversa-

aN

tion as Luisa Calderon, who was then employed in

the Commercial Attache's office at the Cuban Consu-

* NUR,

late. (Ibid.)

During the course of the conversation, the

unidentified caller asked Luisa if she had heard
(of the assassination) ay ae
2 the latest news. Luisa replied in a joking tone:

Nai, Nae

°
“Yes, of course, I knew almost before Kennedy."

(Ibid.)
CIA's
Paraphrasing the [telephone intercept] transcript,

.

~. os
it states that the caller tétd-tuisa~~ the person

¥ fe ruager cast af trunslattec’s nto rotctie
ot Catdson's Bern rshr.

: Ciassification: SZCR2T 3
Classified by dEPHPH 2
» LY LF LF v4 4S 2 SF LF .


}
j
p
j
j

eee
Classification:

(This forin is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.}

apprehended for Kennedy's slaying was the

"President of one of the Committees of the Fair
Play for eee eee. replied that she also knew
this? ’idisa inquired whether the pergr being

held for the killing was a "gringo." the unidenti-
fied caller replied, “yes.” Luisa told her caller

that she had learned nothing else about the assassina-

tion and that she had learned about the assassination

zh
only a little while ago. The unidentified caller

commented:

We think that if it had been or had
seemed...public or had been one of

the segregationists or against
intergration who had killed Kennedy,

then there was, let's say, the
possibility that a sort of civil

war would arise in the United States;
that contradictions would be sharpened...
who knows Te A

Luisa responded:

Imagine, one, two, three and now, that
makes three. (She laughs.) (Ibid, p. 2) Ey

Raymond Rocca, in response to a 1975 Rocke-

feller Commission request for information on a

“ possible Cuban conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy wrote regarding Calderon's comments:

Classification:

Classified by derivations 5074
LY £F LF £2 £9 £7 £2 £7 a

°

ra lla nl ol le

‘

aw, NEN NU. SR. XC

Nise,

Wa:

Nwiilete

Nea.


a ED ET a ey _— - ae
Classificatign; Secret —_

is form is e ged for materi Ie:

This m is is | e aterig! gxtrocted 2
‘Or controled docu Ase

rom fA—e8ntre led Gocumen é

-55-

Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto \ ‘
suggestion of foreknowledge. This is the \ A 7
only item in the[intercept atteary ces 2
the Cubans and Soviets aftér the aSsassina-
tion that contains the suggestion of fore~ c
‘knowlege of expectation. (CIA Doc.,
Memorandum of Raymond Rocca for DC/OPS, ¢

5/23/75, p. 15) * (sae p.SSa for®) :

Standing by itself, Luisa Calderon's cryptic
comments do not merit serious attention. Her words
may indeed indicate foreknowledge of the assassina-
tion but may equally be interpreted without such a
sinister implication. Nevertheless, the Committee 4
has determined that Luisa Calderon's case should
have merited serious attention in the months following

the assassination.

In connection with the assassination, Luisa

3
Calderon's name first surfaced on November 27, 1967

A
&
*
Sua.

in a cable sent by then Ambassador Mann ti
#2. ls

the State
@ sii Department (CIA Doc. DIR 85573, 11/27/63). |

a
In that cable Mann stated:

“,..Washington should urgently consider
feasibility of requesting Mexican authorities
to arrest for interrogation: Eusebio Azcue,
Luisa Calderon and Alfredo Mirabal. The two
men are Cuban national and Cuban consular
officers. Luisa Calderon is a secretary
in Cuban Consulate here." (bid.)

Sniuan:

\

Qlassification: —secce: 999675
BIL0525 | Clasdlied by deixeten, , —C+ Berk

LI I I LI LF SF LF La ae.

y S&S EX FB Ve GR |B GA WR wR wR wR wR


lassificatign: Secret _

This form is 19 Be used for materia! sxtoster
ram ClA—cente its ponee ee
-55a-

*Regarding the issue of whether Calderon's comments
could reasonably be interpreted to indicate possible
foreknowledge, the CIA position is as follows:

During the Rockefeller Commission inquiry,
Samana s conversation was identified

eal ee item of information from

Agency‘ s] Cuban and Soviet ketephone }
eee might suggest foreknowledge
of a plot to assassinate the American Presi-
dent. This involves a faulty translation of an
answer Calderon gave to her caller. In answer
to the latter's question as to whether she

had heard the latest news, Calderon said:
"Si, claro, me entere casiantes que Kennedy."

The verb entere is mistranslated. Me Me _entere

(the first person of the verb enterarsefe, |

past tense) should be translated as ".f.I found
out (or I learned) about it -- the assassination/
almost before Kennedy /aid7. "In other words,
Calderon was saying she heard about the shooting
of Kennedy almost at the time the event took
place..." (CIA Doc., Memorandum Regarding

Luisa Calderon conversation, p.1).

a

Dulas The Committee fundamentally disputes the
narrow interpretation of Calderon's comments
aoe assigned by the Agency. It is the Committee's
ane ta «* position that translation of Me Entere as
either "I found out" or "I learned about" % » + »
does not foreclose interpretation of Calderon's
comments as a suggestion on her part of possible
foreknowledge of President Kennedy's assassination.
the ed atari inang vert, should have eon lett to
He judepasst of Hhadarren Comm issio yn st THe lA

Serica’. sacs

Glessificotion: 2: 009076 j
200526 | Cay ee,

MI LF LE LE SE a a a


}
b
,

SF A LY SF LF LF LF ae ya
Classification: __secret

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted

from Glar-tenwolled dawrartinateriat extracted

from ClA—controlled sigcyments.)

This cable does not state the basis for
arresting Calderon. * " However, the CIA's copy of this
cable bears a handwritten notation on its routing
page. That notation states: “Info from Amb Mann
for Sec Rusk re: ...persons involved with Oswald
in Cuban Embassy." ; Mann went on to state in urgent

Dob terms: "They may’ quickly be returned to Havana in

order to eliminate any possibility that Mexican

}

D ry lgovernneat could use them as witnesses." ( S55
: According to CIA’ files, Calderon made
reservations to return to Havana on Cubana Airlines on
December 11, 1963, less chan four weeks after the
assassination. (CIA Doc. CSCI~316/01783-65, 4/26/63)
Ae & Calderon, Agcue and Mirabal were not arrested

nor detained for questioning by the Mexican federal
Re
police. However, Silvia Duran, a friend and associate

of Calderon's and the one person believed to have ™®

FR UTS Sala SORT RSE ve Leb NG moti {Aah phen 1 Sher yy egret Fay Hh Comm Ti
+f isthe Committee's belief that Mann was prompted ‘
to request the arrest of Calderon. on the basis of ate

Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte's allegation that Calderon
was present at the Cuban Embassy when Oswald
was allegedly given a sum of money presumably to j

carry out the assassination of President Kennedy.
ice sae Doc. ey TRT4Ly i, gune 1964, Attachment C)

aS CU
Cesiteavon — j
Cc. Berk

2500527 P
| Gfessiied By deetvation -

ewe eaegegEeaeEe we



Classification: Secret _

Thig"horm 1 es ee

ad PUL rial aatiaste
-57-

‘ear,

had. repeated contact with Oswald while he was in
Mexico City, was arrested and questioned by the

Mexican police nm did separate occasions. (CIA

®: doc. DIR 84950, 11/23/63, CIA Doc. DIR 85471,7

11/27/63) ¢
During her second interrogation, Duran was

questioned regarding her association with Calderon.

Va SA EER (Waa

There is no indication in the reinterrogation report

accounting for the questioning of Duran about Calderon.

Wen.

(CIA Doc. DDP4- -0940, 2/21/64) The information regarding

e
%

Duran's interrogation was passed to the Warren Commission

Sea

on February 21, 1964, more than two months after

Calderon had returned to Cuba. (Ibid.)

Sess,

Information was reported to the CIA during
May 1964, from a Cuban defector, tying Luisa

Calderon to the Cuban Antelligence apparatus. The Mm ». *. «

Sea.

eH
defector, (AMMUG-1, was himself a Cuban Intelligence

Officer who supplied valuable and highly reliable

waa

information to the CIA regarding Cuban Intelligence

operations. (CIA Doc., Memorandum of Joseph Langosch

~ocoas!

to Chief, Office of Security, 6/23/64) Calderon's

Glassificatign: —seccot——__ 099978 {
| | Ces yy ctvaeg, Ranke

r ® Bw BE GE SB GEA SS SS SB WH wo

49 49 Sf 5S Lf ke fie Sy S .


3

y & “ &@ WG VG “2 “SP VR ~=R “Se |R OR

Classification: secret _ =

This form #8 18 Re vied ier materia! sxvasted
ram ClA—eenttalled deeyments,)

-57a-

ties to Cuban intelligence were reported to the Warren
Commission on June 18, 1964. (CIA Doc. FOIA #739-319,
6/19/64) However, the Committee has determined from
its review that the CIA did not provide Calderon's
conversation of November 22 to the Warren Commission.

Consequently, even though the Warren Commission was aware that

008075

Glesstication:
2ec0529 | Get by deen: ————

LE £F £9 £9 La LD LE LD Le

x

wR,

Sa. EER

See.

Sei, Sia’ Sanne Srece

j

“


MO LD a ES LT LY LY SE SF

- 58 -
Classification: ——snenet
=e 7

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Calderon had connections to intelligence work,

as did other Cuban Embassy officers, the vital

link between her background and her comments

was never established for the Warren Commission

by the CIA. The Agency's oversight: in this

regard may have fortlased the Commission fron

actively pursuing a lead of great significance.
Calderon's-201 file reveals that she f ime

arrived in Mexico City from Havana on January |

1963, carrying Cuban Passport E/63/7. Her date

of birth was believed to be 1940 (CIA Doc. Dispatch

uae 195%

4
HMMA21612, no_dake- given) Calderon's presence in

Mexico City was first reported by the CIA on July
15, 1963 in a dispatch from the CIA's Miami field
office to the CIA's Mexico City station and to the

Chief of the CIA's Special Affairs Staff (for Cuban

Bk
Y

US.
operations) . (CIA Doc. dispatca seca, 10095, 7/15/63)

Gea.

That dispatch had attached to it a report containf&g »
biographic data on personnel then assigned to the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. At page three of the

g
4
4
$
j
$
4
g
4
3

attached report Luisa Calderon was listed as Secretary

of the Cuban Embassy's commercial office. The

ss 999039

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

LT LF LF LF LI I LLL

x

NUGS: NER NRE.

a


;
f
f
$
j
j

j
;

: - 59 --

Classification: gecoeT

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

notation indicated that a report was pending on
i No such report is present.
Calderon. (Ibid., p. 3 of attachment) ‘The in Calderon's
201 File.
Agency has attempted, without success, to locate

_.the report.

Luisa Calderon's association with the Cuban

® o & 682290 5/5/64) At that time, Joser
Chief of Counterintelligence for the Special Affairs
Staff, reported the results of his debriefing of
the Cuban defector, AMMUG-1. The memorandum stated
that ‘AMMUG-1 had no direct knowledge of Lee Harvey
Oswald or his activities but was able to provide
items of interest based upon the comments of certain
Cuban Intelligence Service officers. (Ibid.) Specificaliy,
AMMUG-1 was asked if Oswald was known to the:Cuban
intelligence services before November 23, 1963.
AMMUG-1' told Langosch "Prior to October 1963, centr — ‘
visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City-on two or
three occasions. Before, during and after these

visits, Oswald was in contact with the Direccion

cae 009034

Classification:

)
Classified by derivation:

TF I I I IF II I

a ae ee aS

a

Bee, Nuns.

“ek, UY.

Neto,

=
,



I PF LI LI LF LF LI Le

Classification: SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

General De Intelligencia (DGI), specifically
with Luisa Calderon, Manuel Vega: Perez, and
Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez." (Ibid.)

Langosch thereafter wrote that Calderon's
precise relationship to the DGI was not clear.

As a comment to this statement he set forth the
CIA cable and dispatch traffic which recorded her
arrival in Mexico during January 1963 and departure
for Cuba within one month after the assassination.
(Ibid.)

On May 7, 1964, Langosch recorded additional
information he had elicited from AMMUG-1 regarding
Oswald's possible contact with the DGI. (CIA Doc

& > porta 687-295, attach. %, 5/7/64) Paragraph 3 of

this memorandum. stated in part:

"a. Luisa Calderon, since she returned
to Cuba, has been paid a regular
salary by the DGI even though she
has not performed any services. ay oy
Her home is in the Vedado section
where the rents are high.

b. Source (AMMUG) has known Calderon
for several years. Before going
to Mexico, she worked in the
Ministry of Exterior Commerce
in the department which was known
as the "Empres@ Transimport."

Her title was Secretary General
of the Communist Youth in the
department named in the previous

sentence. (Ibid.) SECRET

Classification: = 009082

Classified by derivation: ——_

LD LF SF £9 £F £9 SF SF &F

y “i “i “Gk
ee)

CS a ee

ED.

Nee.

SG,


a
}
a
y

LT PF LF LF ee

@.

I I I LE LL

-6i
Classification:

ci he ot i

(This form is to be used fof material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

On May 7 Langosch further disclosed ai s

| knowledge of the Oswald case. (Ibid, attach. A
Langosch paraphrased AMMUG's knowledge of Calderon

as follows:

I thought that Luisa Calderon might have

had contact with Oswald because I learned
about 17 March 1964, shortly before I made

a trip to Mexico, that she had been

involved with an American in Mexico. The
information to which I refer was told to

me by a DGI case officer... I had commented
to (him) that it seemed strange that Luisa
Calderon was receiving a salary from the

DGI although she apparently did not do

any work for the Service. (The case officer)
told me that hers was a peculiar case and
that he himself believed that she had been
recruited in Mexico by the Central Intelligence
Agency although Manuel Pineiro, the Head

of the DGI, did not agree. As I recall,
(the case officer) had investigated Luisa
Calderon. This was because, during the time
she was in Mexico, the DGI had intercepted

a letter to her by an American who signed
his name OWER (phonetic) or something
similar. As you know, the pronunciation

of Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in
Spanish_so I am not sure of how the name

“mentioned by efnandezi should be spelled.

‘

It could have‘eeen-"Howard" or something fe : :
different. As I understand the matter, ld 7
the letter from the American was a love
letter but indicated that there was a
clandestine professional relationship
between the writer and Luisa Calderon. &
I also understand from (the case officer) ?
that after the interception of the letter
she had been followed and seen in the
company of an American. I do not know if g
this could have been Cswald...(Ibid.) -
Quen
SECRET
age * g
Classification: 000083 3

Classified by derivation:


- 62 -
Classification: ___ SECRET
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

On May 11, Raymond Rocca wrote a memorandum

Bes Richard Helms regarding the information

nad elicited from AMMUG (CIA Doc. FOIA 687-295;

5/11/64, Rocca Memorandum) Rocca proposed that "the
DDP in person or via a designee, perferably the
former, discuss the AMMUG-1 situation on a very
restricted basis with Mr. Rankin at his earliest
convenience either at the Agency or at the Commission
headquarters. Until this takes place, it is not
desirable to put anything in writing’! (Ibid. p. 2)
On May 15, 1964, Helms wrote Rankin regarding

AMMUG's information about the DGI, indicating its
sensitivity and operational significance. (CIA Doc.
FOIA 697-294, 5/15/64, Helms Memorandum) Attached
to Helms' communication. was a paraphrased accounting
of Langosch's May 5 memorandum. (Ibid.) In that
attachment the intelligence associations of Manuel
Vega Perez and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez were set een?
However, that. attachment made no reference whatsoever
to Luisa Calderon.

; Howard Willens of the Warren Commission

requested as a follow-up’to the May 15 memorandum,

mi

an

ee

‘s t
Classification:
00908

" Classified by derivation:

LI I SI LL

Ne.

fe,

wis.


&
rf

LP SF LF &P £2 SF FP £2) £7

iain bree =F ere =
Classification: RET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

access to the questions used in Langosch's
interrogation of atic. (CIA Doc. FOIA 739-316, 6/19/64,
Memorandum) On June 18, 1964 arthur Dooley of
Rocca!s @ounterintelligence Zesearch and Analysis
Group took the questions and AMMUG's responses to
the Warren Commission's office™s for Willen's review.
Willens saw Langosch's May 5 memorandum. The only
mention of Calderon was as follows: "The precise
relationship of Luisa Calderon to the DGI is not
clear. She spent about six months in Mexico from
which she returned to Cuba early in 1964." (Ibid.)
However, Willens was not shown Langosch's
memoranda, of May 7 and May 8, 1964 which contained
much more detailed information on Luisa Calderon,
including her possible association with Lee Harvey
Oswald and/or American ‘intelligence. “(EBEETY

The warrén Commission as of June 19, 1964,

‘
had little if no reason to pursue the Luisa ca1deSSn if

lead. It had effectively been denied significant

* It should be noted that these memoranda of May 5,
7, 8, 11 and June 19 with attachments, are not
referenced in the Calderon 201 file. (See CIA
Computer printout of Calderon 201 file) Their
existence was dete ed by the Committee's

independ@hassfiéatiori: other agency files.
SECRET: Classified by derivation:

000085

NUR. GN SE HT EER, | NEKER. = “SG,

Neh SOBA

EWA,

‘asin.


w

eae
Classification: Saens

Fog Seve vy

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

background information. This denial may have
impeded or prevented the Commission's pursuit

of Calderon's poténtial relationship to Oswald

and the assassination of President Kennedy. But
even if the Warren Commission had learned

of Calderon's background. and possible contact with
Oswald it still had been denied the one significant
piece of information that might haveraised its
interest in Calderon to a more serious level. The
Warren Commission was.never told about Calderon's

conversation of November 22, 1964.

§

ni

na

CRET

Classification:

Classified by derivatiod 0.9.03 6
SDF SF £9 £8 £5 £9 59 LF SF

NURS NUT NU HN Ndi

NUCH GH,

Naor.

“ating

Ly


fares 7 SECRET

: (This form is to be used for material one

from ClA—controlled docuntegts.)

Sa oe ear

pai eurunneradia ae eee
>the Calderon 201 fite-m

. 7 . s N
reference to the conversation nor does it indicate

that it was ever made

known to or provided the

Warren Commission for its analysis. (CIA Comput:

print-out of Calderon 201 file)

In an effort to determine the manner in which the

treated the Calderon conversation this Committee

posed the following questions to the CIA:

Ne, RO RRA WA WH.

1. Was the Warren Commission or any Warren
Commission staff member ever given access
to the transcript of a telephone conversa-
tion, dated November 22, 1963, between a
female employee of the Cuban Embassy/
Consulate in Mexico City, identified
as Luisa, and an unidentified male speakg, ce
ing from outside the Cuban Embassy/Con- —
sulate? If so, please indicate when
this transcript was provided to the Warren
Commission or its staff, which CIA official
provided it, and which Warren Commission
members or staff reviewed it.

j
j
4
g
g
§
j
j
j

*
NUBHR. NUR. YEN.

2..Was the Warren Commission or any member
of the Warren Commission or any Warren
Commission staff member ever informed

Nem

SECe

Classification:

Nealon.

009087"
» LF LF SF LI LI SF SI MF LF |

Classified by derivation:


y ©@® WB BG D1 SY YY WV WG BP GW “Ss

Clenifentisny sean

is form is to be sed fs Fr material extracte;
_ mM Is fo pe use Or ares extracte
if

if —<ontro} leq do
le documents

‘om ClA—contro!

~65a-

orally or in writing of the substance of the
above-referenced conversation of November 22,
1963? If so, please indicate when and

in what form this information was provided,
and which CIA official provided it. (HSCA
request letter of August 28, 1978)

The CIA responded by memorandum: —

"Although the (Mexico City)-~Station considered
the conversation Of Sufficient possible
interest to send a copy to headquarters,
the latter apparently did nothing with
it, for there appears to be no record in the
Oswald file of such action as may have
been taken. A review of those Warren
Commission documents containing information
provided by the Agency and still bearing a
Secret or Top Secret classification does
not reveal whether the conversation was
given or shown to the Commission."

(CIA Doc., Memorandum Regarding Luisa
Calderon conversation, p. 1)

The available evidence thus supports the
conclusion that the Warren Commission was never
given the information nor the opportunity by
which it could evaluate Luisa Calderon's
significance to the events surrounding President
Kennedy's assassination. Had the Commission been
expeditiously provided this evidence of her.
intelligence background, association with Silvia
Duran, and her comments following the assassination,

0090088

it may well have given more serious investigative

Classification: secret __
‘| Gratifindubyydacixetingn 6. Berk

Sa WSR “GA “ER HRA wi.

Ve. We,

ny 9

7



ae a eT ie a

ts

4”

oe

: the Agency provide the Calderon conversation to the

: Warren Commission; secondly, why didn't the Agency

terms. It is reasonably ‘possible that by sheer

" recovered or recollected until after the Warren

Classification: saint tools
consideration to her potential knowledge of Oswald
(This form is to be, used for :material extracted

and the Cubgy, CIRSEnMeA RAS agARAT LS involvement in
a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

Two difficult issues remain which are raised

by the Committee's finding. First, why didn't

reveal to the Warren Commission its full knowledge

of Calder nt s intelligence background, her possible

an

knowledge. of Oswald and.-her possible connection to
aarti me F
the CIA or some other American intelligence appatatus.

The first question can be explained in benign
oversight the conversation was filed away and not

Commission had completed its investigation and
See Pp OS) Ciccdle’ Potion aS eetnste ne herein

published its report.” (See above CIA explanation)

ee a a a er a” as

As for the Agency's withholding of information
concerning Calderon's intelligence background, the

record reflects that the Commission was merely *® » '

informed that Calderon may have been a.member of

NGF rae
the DGI. (CIA Doc. 5/5/64 | SwertsOay Memorandum)

The memoranda which provided more extensive examina-

tion of her intelligence background were not made

eo

SECRET
Classification: = 090839

GH, NWR,

Classified by derivation; ____

LF LF LF LT SF FF I LD & ..


v

LEY LY LF LF MI LF LD £29 GF

Ce

i or 67 =
Classification: _ StcasyT

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

j

available for the Commission's review. Significantly,
the May 8 memorandum written by Joseph Langosch
following his debriefing of ‘Ammug-1 ‘indicated that
AMMUG-1 and a second Cuban Intelligence officer
believed Calderon to be a CIA operative. (CIA Doc.

4
FOIA 687-295, attach 5, 5/8/64) It is possible eae? a

eseae : A la
that this information was not provided the Warren \~-
: \

Commission either because there was no basis in “

fact for the allegation or because the allegation
was of substantive concern to the Agency. If the
allegation were true, the consequences for the CIA
would havi een serious. It would have demonstrated

OS St
that aSCIA operative, well placed in the Cuban Embassy,

ea

may have possessed information prior to the assassina-
tion regarding Oswald and/or his relationship to the

?
Cuban Intelligence Service , and that Services

possible involvement in a conspiracy to assassinate

eg

UH, NA.

President Kennedy.

Regarding Calderon's possible a§sociation

Naka

with the CIA, Agency files reviewed reveal no

~-\ostensible.connectién between Calderon and the CIA.

Nabe,

ww
mh

SECRET
Classification: 009690

‘UE.

Classified by derivation:


LY 49 SF LI LP LF LF 89 SF

SECREL

Classification:

(This: form is to be used for material - extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

However, there are indications that such contact
‘ between Calderon and the Agency was contemplated.
A September 1, 1963 CIA dispatch from the Chief
of the Special Affairs Staff to the CIA's Chief

ef Station in Mexico City states in part:

++-Luisa Calderon has a sister residing
in Reynosa, Texas, married to an American
of Mexican descent. If (CIA asset) can
further identify the sister, our domestic
exploitation section might be in a posi-
tion to follow up on this lead...Please
levy the requirement on (CIA asset) at
the next opportunity. (CIA Doc. HMMW-
41935, 9/1/63)

i)
cay
=

An earlier CIA dispatch from the CIA Chief
of Station in Mexico City to the Chief of the CIA's
Western Hemisphere Division records that:

[wirtredo of Jthe Cuban Consulate, (Tampico, ]
reported that Luisa Calderon has ‘a sister
residing in Reynosa, Texas...Luisa may go
up to the border to visit her sister soon--
or her mother may make the trip--details
not clear (CIA Doc. HMMA 21849, July 31,
ieee

. *
eq

@
At the very least, the above dispatches Mie '
evidenced an interest in the activities of Calderon
and her family. Whether this interest took

the form of a clandestine-agent relationship is

not revealed by Calderon's 201 file.

SECRET
Classification: PVdHsa

Classified by derivation:

I LI MI LI LI LE ae

=



LG LF LF £9 LF LF LI LT LF ~
- 69 - iT
Classification: — SECREL

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.) ae

The Committee has quorsda oavia 5 Ronis, the
author of the above cited dispatch requesting
that Calderon's sister be contacted by the CIA's

“domestic exploitation section." (HSCA Class...

Staff Interview of David Ronis, 8/31/78) Ronis

was a member of the CIA's Spécial Affairs’ State

“it, “ER “A ‘Gh

at the time he wrote the dispatch. He worked
principally at CIA headquarters and was responsible
for recruitment and handling of agents for collection
of intelligence data. Mr. Ronis, when interviewed
by this Committee, stated that part of his responsi-
bility was to scour the Western Hemisphere division
for operational leads related to the work of the
Special Affairs staff. Ronis recalled that he
normally would send requests to CIA field stations
for information or leads on various persons. Often

he would receive no response to these requests,

*

a ae a ae ee aS

which normally indicated that no follow-up had rs
either been attempted or successfully conducted.

It fs Ronis' recollection that the above-cited
domestia @kploitation section was a task force

within the Special Affairs Staff. He also stated

that in 1963 the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division

Classification: _S 202% :T
Classified by eA000 32

, A LT I LF FF FF &F &F .

_ ee,


j
p
4
g
4
p
5
j
j
j

Classification: “sicRet

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

might have_been. requested to locate Luisa Calderon's —
sister / Ronis told the Committee that he had no
recolle&tici’ of recruiting any person associated

with the Cuban Intelligence Service. He did recall
that he had recruited women to perform tasks for

the Agency. However, he did not recall ever recruiting
any employees of the Cuban Embassy/Consulate in

Mexico City. Finally, Mr. Ronis stated that he had

no recollection that Luisa Calderon was associated

‘with the CIA. (Ibid.)

Various present and. former CIA representatives
were queried whether Luisa Calderon had ever been
associated with the CIA. The uniform answer was
that no one recalled such an association. (Cites:
Exec. Sess. Test. of Richard Helms, 8/9/78, p. 136;
HSCA Class. Depo. of Raymond Rocca, 7/17/78, p. 148;

HSCA Staff Interview of Joseph Langosch,; 8/21/78,

f agt lt f 978
, Piccolo, Interview ofhucty 7 eg
procasanisser -Thus, the Agency's file on Calderon and the

testimony of former CIA employees have revealed no
connection between Calderon and the CIA. Yet, as

indicated earlier, this file is incomplete:the

ie LET

fas

z
~~

yal

Classification:

093

| ‘Classified: by derivation:

’

NW, NU NG, RU, WGI. UR UHHH,

NUM,

“Ovi, Nth

\

is


» , ae a a ee a a ay

SECRET

: Langosch, went[to canada [to meet A-

po

ET :

ee zc
Classification: set

(This form is to be ysed for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

most glaring omission being the absencé) from
: oo (Ralteran’s ;
ner 201 file.fof * cryptic remarks

: ee ?—
Buckgrourk wok

ammuc-1- “Din Orrn 5

PAL SQ SAO

This Committee's investigation of Luisa

LVL ety

7

Ian Pesvie dk oe Set

Calderon has revealed that a defector from the Cuban

Intelligence Services provided the CIA with signi-

ficant information about Lee Harvey Oswald's contacts

with the DGI in Mexico City. This defector was -
eres
assigned the CIA cryptonym AMMUG-1 (A-1 hereinafter) .*

CIA files reveal that A-l defected from the
DGI on April 21, iseal

When he defected, A-1 possessed a number of DGI

documents which were subsequently turned over to

the CIA. (CIA voc.[orra fr 68894, 4/24/64) fe i
Sole ra ¥

Following his defection, a CIA officer, Joseph H.

1, debrief him,

and arrange for A-l's travel into the United States.

(Ibid.) On May 1, 1964, 22 reels of Langosch's

*It is now k

leads to the CIA regarding Luisa Calderen

this information

was ma

Therefore, the possibility exists that A-l had

provided other information t@. t@fasslidd*by derivation:
d co

ion's work wale

in Halifax, Nova Scotia, canada.J

Woh SHU NR EB.

nown that A-l did provide sianiSiqans mre)

furt arent that little of
tepassih cation: 4, che cra to the Warren Commission.

NS.

h. “GhR “ERR ‘i.

th.

Nati

Nett:

»


CREL

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

debriefing of Aal—were forwarded to[the
9 1k Station in Seeanalc Canada. J (CIA Doc. Dispatch ocBa
7763, 5/1/64) Effective on May 1, A-1 was under
contract with the CIA for operational purposes.

ris ee (CIA Doc. Contract Approving Officer Memo, ¢/6/64)
on

(By June 23, 1964, Langosch was convinced that A-L
| would be of great value to the Agency. He stated:

There is no. question in my mind that

AMMUG-1 is a bona fide defector or

that he has furnished us with accurate

and valuable information concerning

Cuban intelligence operations, staffers, ;
and agents. (CIA Doc. Langosch Memo to
Director of Security, 6/23/64

As an officer of the DGI, A-l from August of)
1963 until his defection was assigned to the DGI's
@ »C Illegal Section B (CIA Doc.[gprA] in 68e94 4/24/64)
which was responsible for training agents for
assignment in Latin America. His specific responsi-
bility pertained to handling of agent operations
in El Salvador. (CIA Doc. Personal Record Quest #@n- »
one naire 6/4/64; CIA Doc [osed] rn 68894 4/24/64)

A-1 identified for the CIA the Cuban Intelli-

gence officers assigned to Mexico City. Langosch
described A-l's knowledge of DGI operations in

Mexico as follows:

S2CrRiT
Classification:

000695

Classitied by derivation:

LY I BI LI LI I I a ae

j
;
;
[
;

UHI. WHR.

\


Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled docunients.)

In Mexico City, he knows who the
intelligence people are. One is the
Cuban Consul Alfredo Mirabal. He is
called the Chief of the Centre. That

is his title but he is actually the
intelligence chief, or at least he

was until the 16th of April at which
time a replacement was sent to Mexico

to take over. This fellow's name is
Manuel Vega. The source says that

the Commercial attache whose name is
Ricardo Tapia or Concepcion (he is

not sure which is an intelligence
officer) and another one is Rogelio.

( I might say that some of these names
are familiar to me.) (Langosch debriefing
of A-1, 4/30/64, p. 5 of reel 4, 4/23/64)

Thus, A~l was able to provide the CIA soon
- after his defection with accurate information
regarding DGI operations and DGI employees in
Mexico City. cee En Sart From pra
The Committee has reviewed the CIA's files
concerning A-1l. This examination was undertaken
to determine: 1) whether A-1l had provided any

valuable investigative leads to the CIA pertaining-

to the assassination of President Kennedy; and 2)
whether, if such leads were provided, these leads

and/or other significant information were made

Neneh, NUH, UR, RD, WU NU. WH,

available to the Warren Commission.

Neate

oe

wm
ou
(an)
=
mh
i

- : Classification:

bacb96

Classified by derivation:


Classification: SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

The Committee's initial review of the
materials provided by the CIA to the Warren
Commission did not disclose the existence of the
AMMUG files. However, the Committee did during :
the ae of its review examine a file containing
material passed to the Rockefeller Commission. That
file made reference to A-1. Included in this
file was a memorandum of May 5, 1964 written by
Joseph Langosch which concerned information A-1

provided about the Oswald case. (CIA Doc. FOIA 68-290

this file were the A-1l debriefing memoranda of

May 7, and May 8, 1964 previously cited with regard

to Luisa Calderon. (CIA Doc. FOIA 7687-295, attach's

t Y
2 and 5) Following review of the memoranda, the

Committee requested access to all CIA files
fe or
concerning referring to A-l.

From review of these materials the Committe@® »

during mid-May 1964 that Lee Harvey Oswald probably

Langosch Memorandum, 5/5/64) Also contained within §

had come in contact with DGI officers in Mexico City.

Classification: 009697

Classified by derivation:

J has determined that the Warren Commission did learn


s
py
.
4
p
p
gy
po:
go
3
a
j

a AT AT LI &F TF ae

Classification, ESE=E Gk Be Bai

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<controlled documents.)
the Waren Commission
Prior to Avearning of Oswald's probable contact
with DGI officers, James Angleton, Chief of the
CIA's Counter Intelligence Staff passed an internal
memorandum to Raymond Rocca, also of the Counter-
intelligence Staff, which stated that he had been
informed by the DDP, Richard Helms, that J. Lee
Rankin had contacted John McCone to request that
the Director consent to an interview before the
Warren Commission on May 14, 1964, (J. Edgar
Hoover also appeared before the Commission on
that date prior to McCone's appearance. Warren
Vel-=
Commission Report *Beree)(CIA Doc. FOTA 689-298,
Memorandum of James Angleton, 5/12/64) Angleton
also wrote:
raised
Bs discussed with Mr. Helms the nature of

the recent information which you are
processing which originated with the

ot sensitivé Western Hemispheré| source. I

informed him that in your view this would
raise a number of new factors with the
Commission, that it should not go to the
Commission prior to the Director's appear-
ance unless we have--first had some pre-
liminary reaction or made sure that the
Director is fully aware of the implica-
tions since it could well serve as the
basis for detailed questioning. ‘The DDP
stated that he would review this care-
fully amd made (sic) a decision as to

the question of timing. (Ibid.)

Classification:

Classified by deriv tif}y 0-§538—
Se LT 4 MY LP SF LF SI LF

x

SS

With, NYG SE. itp ‘ih,

NUD. NERA.

NMA

wath. NS,

a


y ‘@ “a “A YL WA YA “A “A “@ SA wm ER

SECREL

~ Classification:

(This form is to be used for material. extracted

= fram, ClA—controlled documents.
unad Br Gary cette Warvesewose source referred
eis ae

NR

2

to in Angleton's memowas A-l. This conclusion is

NG.

based in part upon the date of this memo which
was quite close in time to A-l's defection. In

addition, Rocca's staff prepared prior

NAA.

to DCI McCone's appearance before the Warren
a"Brief “
Commission for Presentation to the Warren Commission

outlining various positions adopted by the CIA vis a
vis its investigative efforts and assistance to the
Commission. (CIA Doc. FOIA 695-302-A, 5/14/64)

At Tab E of this brief it states:

Within the past week, significant infor-
mation has been developed by the CIA re-
garding the relationship with Oswald of
certain Cuban intelligence personnel in
Mexico City and the reaction in Havana
within the Cuban Intelligence Service

to the news of the assassination of
President Kennedy. The Commission Staff
is in the course of being briefed on the
Cuban asspect. (Ibid., Tab E)

SR.

On May 15, 1964, the day of McCone's interview,
the Warren Commission received its first formal oe
communication regarding A-1. (CIA Doc FOIA 697-294,

5/15/64) However, the Agency did not at that time

a

identify A-l by his real name or cryptonym nor did

the Agency indicate that the source of this information

Uh.

ae

SECRET

Classification:

YEA.

Classified by dere 0099
LY £9 £9 £9 £92 £2 LF £9 LF


feel

Classification: __—==—Ss SEC RET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

was a defector then residing under secure conditions
in the Washington, D.C. area. (Ibid.) The May 15
communication did : state that the Agency had
established contact “with a well-placed invidivual
who has been in close and prolonged contact with
ranking officers of the Cuban Direccion General de
Intelligencia." (Ibid.)

Attached to the May 15 communication was a
copy of Langosch's above referenced memorandum of
May 5, 1964 regarding knowledge of Oswald's pro-
bable ‘contact with ‘the DGI in Mexico City. The
attachment made no reference to the source's status
as a defector from the DGI. (Ibid., attachment)

As set forth in the section of this report
concerning Luisa Calderon, on June 18, 1964, Howard
Willens of the Warren Commission reviewed Langosch's

May 5 memo and the questions upon which the informa-

tion set forth in the memo was elicited. NeitherMthes '-

questions nor the memo shown to Willens made
reference to the source's status as a defector col-

laborating with the CIA. (CIA Doc FOIA 739-319,

6/19/ 64).
SECREL
Classification:

099199

Classified by derivation:

ee a ae

Une:

NU NEHER.


LY LY LY LI MF Ma ME a a.

were withheld from the Warren Commission. This

- 79 - Cro page 4s):

Classification:
ED

a2
(This form is to be used for mutenel Satetted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

‘Based upon review of the Langosch memoranda,
the Committee has determined that significant
information regarding Luisa Calderon, specifically

of Nov. 22 details of her
her conversation ana-@ssociation with Cuban Intelligence

A a

information as described above, was derived from

pees However,
debriefings of A-l. from the Committee's review
of the A-1 file provided by the CIA, the Committee
has not found any credible evidence indicating that
other information provided by A-l to the CIA was
relevant to the work of the Warren Commission. However,
in its review the Committee has determined that a

as
specific document referenced in the A-l file is

NGiZ. AB,

not present in that file.

The. missing itemis of considerable concern to

SER.

the Committee. It is a debriefing report of A-1

entitled "The Oswald Case." (CIA Doc Dispatch{ urcu- |

Ne,

5035, 3/23/65) On March 23, 1965, a CIA dispatch®™® oe
records the transmittal of the report, along with

eleven other A-1 debriefing reports. (Ibid.) Next to

Yi.

the listing of the “Oswald Case" debriefing report

is the handwritten notation "SI." A CIA employee

“Gi

who has worked extensively with the Agency files

pee oe
Classification: DELO ET
© Classified by derivation ND 404

Whe


‘

Glassificatign: sere SSC ET

(fae form ig 12 be ysed for motsia! expested
om ElA—centralled documents)

-80-

system told a Committee staff member that this
notation was the symbol for the CIA component
known as Special Intelligence. Other CIA

representatives believed the notation was a

Vas SS MA WA

reference to the Counterintelligence component
CI/SIG. IN a CIA memorandum dated September 27,
1978, the CIA has adopted the position that
debriefing Report No. 40 is a duplication of

the original Langosch memorandum of May 5, 1964

De

concerning AMMUG's knowledge of Lee Harvey

_ Serge n Fee)
Oswadd's, poesiPle, contact with the DGt.* Neverthe biptes
TAS Cae , ot Ce oabesd te ie Poste dieqeshet oe Feoriebins per

Stel Kee bes De eT val ears 5, Rang es. 2. a
e Committed has questioned ies s cake Gee a tat elias nectar

* Fona,

officers regarding additional information that A-l may

mr

have supplied about Oswald. Joseph Langosch, when
interviewed by the Committee, stated that he did not ¢

have contact with the Warren Commission and does M 5 7

yews.

not know what information derived from A-1's de-

briefings was supplied to the Warren Commission. (HSCA

Staff Interview of Joseph Langosch; 8/21/78; Cite also

Interviews of"Hild: & Piccolo) \He also stated that

Seiats

he does Se Tat that Asl-provided any other information

Glassification: 009102

| Cesiless by disiation, eo pewke

Se

20.0832

y B® B QBS YB GF SB SS VW “|D®_ “SR SS wR


Classification: —Seczes __

R
a

(Thi farm is te be wed fer sari eet €
fram ClA—=sentralied aosyments))
-80a-

Ese

*The CIA memorandum states in part as follows:

When CI Staff learned of AMMUG-1's defection
and considered the possibility that he

might have some knowledge of the Oswald

case, CI Staff submitted a list of questions
to WH (Western Hemisphere) for debriefing
AMMUG-1...WH desk records reflect that
AMMUG-1 was debriefed on 4 May 64 regarding
this questionnaire.../B/ecause the debriefing
on the Oswald case was handled as a sensitive
matter, it was dictated directly to a CI
(Counterintelligence) stenographer on

5 May 1964. /Note: A-1 was debriefed on
several subjects on 4 May 64. ‘The procedure
was to assign each subject discussed a
debriefing number and they were written

up in contact report form by the WH case
officer. The instructions from CI staff

were to handle the Oswald case debriefing
very closely and not to keep any copies in

WH Division/. The "Oswald Case" was

logged in the WH notebook log as debriefing
report number 40, but the report itself

was dictated by the WH Case Officer directly
to a CI staff stenographer. There would

be no reason to include the number 40 on

the report of this special debriefing for

CI staff, since it was their only debriefing
report. We are certain it is the debriefing
report (#40) because the date is the same; :
it is the only debriefing report on Oswald es
listed in AMMUG-1 records; and it it (sic)
the only AMMUG-1 debriefing report in
Oswald's 201 file.

ea SO EE wim.

Jee.

Sees, A,

(CIA Doc., Memorandum for the Record, Regarding
AMMUG-1 Debriefing Report on the Oswald
Case, 27 September, 1978, p. 1)

Glassification; SECRET _ gggie

20. CES! | Cesklnes by, enetiess, ————_

SF GF 5 LF 5 My Le My Li |

yr ~® A BG GG SE GG SQ SO EO Oa


Glassification: —Seczee =

Pais farm is tg be used far material extracted
a ClA—centralled decuments;)

-81-

on Oswald's contact with the DGI except for that
set forth in the Memoranda of May 5, 7, and 8

as discussed herein. (Ibid.) ee

the C Aiccee as attempted
-
The a has “Aso attempted to

WR.

whose a ee with

ER.

the Agency is uous but has been eee a 5 i *)

to astgfnine his present mnepesnony Thé CIA's

Ne

2 7 Z
inability to Aosked w-1 has been iia of
/ é y
concern to’ this /Committee, particularly in

light of his long associatio ith the Agency.

remains lieaeiel nen S99 Achar eee:
Thus, +/ mats aa Greo* xhformartonia-1
WA TS q
may havgé supplied the CIA a Oswald. Hewerer, Gvith

the exception of the Calderon episode and on the oe

eae

Seite

‘ a

basis of the CIA's written reocrd, it appears that

the CIA provided the Warren Commission with all A-1 7

Hae

information of investigative significance.

A separate question remains, however. The

Agency, as noted earlier, did not reveal to the

Warren Commission that A-l was present in the

| Slash by denvakes, es perek

“DP LF LF LF SF LY GG My ay .

260532

y ® @ G@ G “SR |] > YG “2 SS “Se “OR


” ® @ GB % “© “ “GG “2 “A “4 WT

Classification: secret __

This form is t9 be uscd far matatial exteected
om ElA—eeniraled documents)

-8la-

*An April 1978 CIA communication to the FBI regarding
A-1 states in pertinent part:

Since 1971 (A-1) has not been involved
, in any Norte fe the in Miami or elsewhere.

lorrissJis the alias of a CIA
‘.representativelwho periodically debriefs
(A-1) on personalities and methods of the
DGI. there is no other CIA involvement with .,
® old Rodriguez. (CIA Doc. 086%602;-CEA 202417, 4/4
- Wol.4;°A-1 File 201449651)"

However, a CIA handwritten index card concerning
the Agency status of A-1 states:

Informed "Calvia" on 15 April 1977 that
(A-1)[is still an active contact} not
receiving any salary, but could“be paid if
and when used in an operation. No problems
here. [SPOB will keep his contract in an
active folder] (CIA Doc., Handwritten Note, _
15 April 1977, contained in Vol. 4 of A-1 file
201-749651)

Ve. TER YR YE ws.

4
Ro» ¢ +g
Glgssification: oootes §

aeoncen
Rahye i fis ivation:
G33 | SCesstied by deve, Se Berk _

SE 4S 5 4 Le Le Seay Ly Ly .


I KF SF LF LF LF LF £7 SF ~*
i i -382- - :
Classification: _
SECREL
(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted
WashingtortronDCtA—eerdealledndocumentek controlled

conditions, accessible to the Commission. Giving
due consideration to the CIA's serious concern
for protecting its sources, the fact that A-l's
status was not disclosed prevented the Warren
Commission from exercising a possible option,
i.e. to take the sworn testimony of A-l as it

concerned Oswald and the Kennedy assassination.

show, the Agency unilaterally rejected the possibility
of exercising this option.

In light of the establishment of A-l's

Cuban intelligence activities, this option might

well have been considered by the Warren Commission.

On this issue, as-the written record tends to ;

cote PBs auceselh
The AMLASH Operation Cte be ince cgecetgh 1 or fis oy ?
During 1967, the CIA's Inspector General
issued a report which examined CIA supported

assassination plots. Included in this report

Ss

rrt

CRET,

was discussion of the CIA-Mafia plots and an 5
Classification: 5

000106
LI LF LF LF LF LF LF A

Classified by derivation:

hona fides, . Sea , his
J proven reliability and his depth of knowledge of


MT AY SF LY MT LF LF PO ae ~
: ~ 83> SECRET

‘i Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Agency project referred to as the AMLASH

operation (CIA Inspector General Report 1967

pp. 1-74, 78-112). The AMLASH operation involved
a high level Cuban official (assigned the CIA
eryptonym AMLASH/1) who, during 1962 while meeting
with a CIA representative expressed the desire to
assassinate Fidel Castro (Ibid., p. 84). Asa
result of AMLASH's expressed objective and the
CIA's desire to find a viable political alternative

to the Castro regime, the Agency subsequently

provided AMLASH with both moral and material §
support designed to depose Fidel Castro. (Ibid.,

pp. 80-94).. The AMLASH operation was terminated 5
by the CIA in 1965 as the result of security leaks.
(Ibid. pp. 104-106) During 1965, AMLASH and his 5
conspirators were brought to trial in Cuba for plotting
against Castro. AMLASH was sentenced to death, but é
at Cae request the sentence was reduced to foe a
twenty-five years imprisonment. (Ibid. pp. 107-110).

sj In its examination of the AMLASH operation

the 1967 IGR concluded that the CIA had offered both

; -
direct and indirect support for AMLASH's plotting (Ibid. p. 8g

) SECRET
Classification: 5

009107
LY LF £F £F £F F LF LF SF .

Classified by derivation:

YW


: - 84 -

Classification: _ SECRET

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

‘Gina.

The most striking example of the CIA's direct

offer of support to AMLASH reported by the

1967 IGR states “it is likely that at the very
moment President Kennedy was shot a CIA officer

was meéting with a Cuban agent in Paris and giving
him an assassination device for use against CASTRO."
(Ibid.)

The 1967 IGR offered no firm evidence confirming
or refuting Castro's knowledge of the AMLASH operation
prior to the assassination of President Kennedy.~.The
1967 IGR did note that in 1965 when AMLASH was ~~
tried in®avanatStess reports of Cuban knowledge

7
of AMLASH's association with the CIA weredated from

November 1964, approximately one year after President

she

Kennedy's assassination. (Ibid. p. 111).
The Church Committee in Book V of its Final
Report examined the AMLASH operation in great detail.

’ »

(SSC, Book V, pp. 2-7, 67-69) The Church Commitee

NBR.

concluded:

The AMLASH plot was more relevant to the

Nee

Warren Commision work than the early CIA

assassination plots with the underworld.

Unilke those earlier plots, the AMLASH

Classification: sicnel

“GRE,

Classified by ee 80 108

LP LF LF SF £F £F 9 £F & .

w


i

DD LI I I I I

‘

”

Classification: = SECRET,

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA—controlled documents.)

operation was in progress at the time
of the assassination; unlike the earlier
plots, the AMLASH operation could
clearly be traced to the CIA; and
unlike the earlier plots, the CIA had
endorsed AMLASH's proposal for a coup,
the first step to him being Castro's
assassination, despite Castro's threat
to retaliate for such plotting. No one
directly involved in either investigation
(i.e. the CIA and the FBI) was told of
the AMLASH operation. No one investi-
gated a connection between the AMLASH

operation and President Kennedy's

assassination. Although Oswald had been

in contact with pro-Castro and anti-

Castro groups for many months before the
assassination, the CIA did not conduct &%
a thorough investigation of questions

of Cuban government or Cuban exile

involvement in the assassination. (Ibid. p. 5)

Ww
eel
C3
a]
cat
in Y

Classification:

Classified. by derivation:

LP

600109

Ngee, NaH,


J
4
g
4
4
4
3
j
y

ENS

LF DT LF

: Classification: _- SEC

(This form is to be used: for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) ._ ae 7

¢ wee

In 1977, the CIA issued a second<Inspector
General's Report concerning the subject of CIA

sponsored assassination plots. This Report, in

large part, was intended as a obaCeaT of the ‘
Church Committee's findings. The ie77 see: states:
The Report (of the Church Committee)
assigns it (the AMLASH operation)
characteristics that it did not have
during the period preceding the assassina-

tion of JFK in order to support the SSC

view that it should have been reported

to the Warren Commission. (1977 IGR p. 2)
The 1977 IGR concluded that prior to the
assassination of President Kennedy, the AMLASH

operation was not an assassination plot.

Nevertheless, the 1977 IGR Le, a

oO, could

Speci c terms”
in neral terms--
Let or Cuban

involyément jai the Ssassination
because ofthe tenSions ofthe time.
It is not ‘enough* to be able to point

Classification:

ee

Classified by derivation:

es ee ee ee

Nena.

Nore, NG, UR,

aA.


$
3
Z
J
3
g

eT LT ST £9 LF LF LF L” LF ~

The

Classification: ca SecReu

(This: form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
to erroneous,critjcisms.made today.
The Agency ier aay ti n broader

they ell/ Thaty
CIA employees At thé time felt+-as LZ
they obvyous f aigé-tnte the efactivities
about wHich /they, ‘Knew/had | ng relevance
to the Warren Commission inquiry does
not take the place of a record of
conscious review. (Ibid. p. ee)
_T. ie 5 Ceeee acne Br ar

Richard Helms, as the highest level CIA

employee in contact with the Warren Commission on

a regular basis, testified to the Rockefeller
Commission that he did not believe the AMLASH
operation was relevant to the investigation of
President Kennedy's death. (Rockefeller Commission,
Testimony of Richard Helms, 4/24/75 pp. 389-391,392)
In addition, Mr. Helms testified before this
Committee that the AMLASH operation was not designed
to be an assassination plot (Exec. Sess. Test. of

Richard Helms, 8/9/78, pp. 26-27).

“Sh, HM, SH OE

A contrasting view to the testimony of Mr.

Helms was offered by Joseph Langosch who in 1963

Se.

La Jet tkeeed

was the Chief of Counterintelligence for the CIA's Specialy,
— Affai
Special Affairs Staff was the CIA component Sta &

responsible for CIA operations directed against

the Government of Cuba and the Cuban Intelligence

g

Services (HSCA Class. Affidavit of Joseph Langosch, >
sacriyt
_ ec Rad,

Classification:

NOE,

Clossitied by derivation 9 BAL 4

ST LT LT MT LT LF LP ST LF .


Zr
yo
§
p
p
p
;
y
Al
;
4

asp
265 JGQeS

Classification: —seceet

(ras form ig tg be used for materia! exrosted
rom Cra—centialled dscuments;)

-88-

Sept. 14, 1978, p. 1) The Special Affairs Staff
was headed by Desmond FitzGerald and was responsible
for the AMLASH operation (SSC, Book V, pp..3, 8, 79)
Langosch, as the Chief of Counterintelligence
for the Special Affairs Staff, was responsible for
safeguarding SAS against penetration by foreign
intelligence services, particularly the Cuban
Intelligence Services (HSCA Classified Affidavit
of Joseph Langosch, 9/14/78, p. 3). It was
Langosch's recollection that:
++.the AMLASH operation prior to the
assassination of President Kennedy was
characterized by the Spécial Affairs
staff, Desmond Fitzgerald (sic) and other
senior CIA officers as an assassination
operation initiated and sponsored by the
‘i CIA. (Ibid., p. 4)

Langosch further recollected that as of 1962

it was highly possible that the Cuban Intelligencegy .

Services were aware of AMLASH and his association
with the CIA and that the information upon which

he based his conclusion that the AMLASH

operation was insecure was available to senior Her SR

seep 3
officials, including Desmond FitzGerald. (Ibid., p. 4)

However, the issue before this Committee is

Glessification: —seeres—__ 000112

| Cesifieds by, deairatien, —C—Berk

ee ee en ne

ibsaah:

x

ws

~abeaee” ae

jaca’,


Y ® |] “SS Ye Ss “2 Ys Ye YS YR Ye WD

Glassifieation; secret _

<n

) (iiis orm ig tg E used for matsris! extested J
fom Cra—cantralled desuments:) ,
-88a-

*In response to Langosch's. sworn statements, this

Committee has received from the CIA an affidavit

executed by Kent L. Pollock (CIA pseudonym) who "served

as Executive Officer for Desmond FitzGerald during the
entire period in which he was Chief of the Special Affairs
Staff...and discussed with him the AMLASH operation as it
progressed." (CIA Doc., Affidavit of Kent L. Pollock,
executed Oct. 5, 1978, p. 1) Mr. Pollock specifically
contested Langosch's assertion that the AMLASH operation
was characterized by the Special Affairs Staff, Desmond
FitzGerald, and other senior level CIA officials as an
assassination operation. In pertinent part, Pollock if
drew the following conclusions:

To the best of my knowledge, Mr. FitzGerald
considered the AMLASH operation to be a political
action activity with the objective of organizing
a group within Cuba to overthrow Castro and the
Castro regime by means of a coup d'etat. I heard
Mr. FitzGerald discuss the AMLASH operation
frequently, and never heard him characterize it as
an “assassiahtion operation." Mr. FitzGerald
stated within my hearing on several occasions

his awareness that coup d'etat often involves
loss of life. (Ibid., par. 3, p. 2)

He also stated:

Desmond FitzGerald did not characterize the AMLASH
operation as an "assassigntion operation"; the

case officer did not; I, as Executive Officer, never e
discussed any aspect of the AMLASH operation, with .
Joseph H. Langosch; the Deputy Chief, the otfi€r eo ‘ “g
branch chiefs and the special assistants could not

have so characterized it since they did not know Z

about the pen (the pen was specially fitted with a
hypodermic syringe in response to urgings by AMLASH
for a means to start the coup by killing Castro.

The case officer offered the pen to AMLASH on the day
of President Kennedy's death. AMLASH rejected the
pen with disdain. /Ibid., par. 4, D. 2/), (Ibid., g
par. 6, p. 3) 5

| Caisified by dealing, —e—Bexk

LY SF LF I LF SF £2 LP LE .

peas
2600635



“SECREL

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Sait,

could have happened back in 1964.

I think there would have been a

much better chance of getting to

the heart of it. It might have

only revealed that we are involved

in it and who approved it and all fae

that. But I think that would

‘have at least come out. (HSCA Class.

Depo. of J. Lee Rankin, 8/17/78, p.91)

The Committee is in agreement with Mr. Rankin
that had the AMLASH operation been disclosed to
the Warren Commission, the Commission might have
been able to foreclose the speculation and conjecture
that has surrounded the AMLASH operation during

~

the past decade. As history now records, the AMLASH
Operation remains a footnote to the turbulent

relations between Castro's Cuba and the United States.

MS » ¢ 7
g
¥
ification: CRIT
Classification: eon41is ;

Classified by derivation:

mM. SL I LI SI LI LI
