# 180-10144-10073

## Page 1

180-10144-10073

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11111348

Satenew with Matte P. Hattigar 3111157

SEGRET

-p.l

Date: June 13, 1978.

saturewed dy: Pickey Moldeneth and Betay Dof

A copy of the sumter lette was guer to Y Nattgar

who read it and indicated that the understood the contents.

M1. Haltigas was guer a lopy of ETA *435-173-A

whick conciate of a CAr lette dated 12/12/63 fits lobert I

Hampull to the Chefs of JR and WE and to the thef of Station

n Paus fouarding a memo dated 11/25/63 WALL Was

writter ty Homas B. Casan to halter P. Haltegan concernin

lains pin interet in Xu Henry swald the downect

seved as the bases fod on questoning

Haltigan stated that in 1963 the sewed as Chief of the Joret

i Section of the Palle station under diplomatie cover. He explaised

that lavasin was also an offich in the Paris station but ie

served under

and worked out of his lone

using alt-outs to make contact with thess in the Pale station

Due to the nature of the arrangement, laran frequently

wiste informal mense suck as the oNe IN # 485-173-A WhCh

were then passed along to the station There meroe would then

M. Yoursded t Headquarters, gexually ly Hattiyan In

this parterlar instale, Lampell, Who served under Haltegan

pawarded.

the latte o Headquarters because Haltigan was iN

the hospital at the time..

Hattigan explained the following potions of lair's mens:

- REDWOOD represents the Soret Qurdon.

SECRET

- The '6 Branch" was the sperational Support and Revea

Branch

for the soret Dursion Is mair fusction was te W

Background Use Onlyl

10144-10073

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

11111349

SECRET

3111158

p. 2

inforsation lavain was Uf of the b Suered until his transfel

to Pars.

-китит? was the cryptonym for the office of operations whee

is currently crows as the ACD. If the CIA wicked to contact a

seturning defect, it would have made coxtaet though this ffice.

However, Helton stated that it probably was not standard spea

ting procedure to interrew. returning defectors due to e vality

of factore suel as a lack of proper follow-up measues o the

Jut itet there tail would love falles into the juridiction

Of the FBI

- DACID was the cryptonyn for. the State Department Haltigai

uxplained that it was not valual that Cardsin Would have seen

A state Departneat despatch In Dswuld as it would have bees

noure. to reeve mit of state Repartment menss

- laseras molection of laving discused the Oswald cave in

Sumoner 1960" as stated i the merno, must have been a mus

meant the sumse

take. Instead, It probably stould have is of 1962

- BI refera to brographie inpormation.

-[rouse) was a cryptan fr a come wheed was pestably

Haltigan explaced that in paragrapel 3, lasanis nee

that he was phasing out of the DDP altogetter stead, his

refuence to phasing out of the Dot referred sily to chee

Headquarters arughnest within DDP.

FlOCEAN was the ligel Traveller pitgram, Wherely they (e AD?)

gave taus havelling to sort or countries treate require-

meet. weed they repoted sack to the la pe the tues.

---

## Page 3

11111350

ILAETOCEAN/3 Use was the in whech a peresa pleked up a cope for.

the regel Finaller program vest to the HR where de fl i les

With an Inturest quide whom he mased He came out of the Uss??

in the sure of 1962 and dis wife was permetted to join his some

months. later: Halagan did not beluve this to ie a case wher

the couple was untually divored as the mens nfle. Natigar.

stated that it Wad nauseal for Mound Dawald to be alloved to.

leave the soret Uner as not mary Jovet wres were pernitted

to leave dung that time pered

- halgar was purplesed as to the fence to the Hey story"

I the last lve of the merro. He fist stated that it must have

been a typiapdeal un which should have been the "O swald

stry witted. Then it was posted out that the senteace contails

wo otte references to Oswald which make it unlikely that

this was merely a typograplical r, he expuad cortunis

with respect to the reflece He could tit of ao explesater

for this, no did he rementer ws speaking to treasia attit

this pockt

3111159

Haltigan recalled that he arred in Paris for des argnonect

in June, 1962 and tat lasaces pissebly arrived there is Septeake

of the same year. saigan stated that the had never beard as

rumors to the uffect that Oswald dad the wild iy the CIA at

ary time. He felt that decause of lee asignmest wither the

Идену, he would have been in a postion to taow of Oswald

had been weed In day capretty. He mistioned that che had beek

i Japan fion 1951-1955 and that lassus Flies there from

---

## Page 4

11111351

1955 t81958 M 1959

SECRET

Fron 1/58 until 4/61, Maltigan worked in SR/9 whick

was speedl Opecatts with is the Soiet Unor. sk/s was compred

of be persons it ts tome. He explained that SPllo was Maposible

. Yor the Legal Travelle, poor woked itleyed I 5. utezers and that.

sR /2,3,425 tid respinsible for unning forge in that proqian.

Se Maligar was gee appused po those persons who were

travelling to the SR under the progers, be expussed the deluf that

it was almost imprecedle for them not to have known if Oswald

had lad some wolement with the Agency in this capacity

Maligas edured that SR/9 are repseible for maintalking it

won wends which they kept in the same manner as DDO beles..

у 5ж nd to cow y a parted pust wa being weed

they would ie able to check it thongh the les. Hourse, Agency as

striation would not de luetly refleced in a 20/ pile sautead,.

the would ie a paper in the file ate to another file in wick

operatinal infrination would it stored. Haltigan unplached that a

201 fele documente the person cout not What the ples a doing

A 201 file Wild contals a PRA, Part I Whick is enticly brograph:

u/mation: A case file would have a two part auster sch as

14-6, were the fut munker reflects the cunbry or aces of interest

and the send muate refus to the specife opuation. In regard to the

weetty of lace files, Hattigar stated that the area of pumary

intreet is reflected on 201 file opening sheet and that ta fill

go to that Mared to suck spectional forsation

When asked about the synuance of CI/SIG opening Osorlds 201.

---

## Page 5

11111352

SECRETI

fule. Hattigan responded that de coutent rally say as the dos

not know whet CI SI 6 Whs dong at the time.

Hattigan was acked whithe it was possible to purge an indurduals

the 201 file and hen semoving the pertisent prmation forn the

Use fele. Hattgan stated that he dos not chano of the tope of thig

esential forte pistction of the speration and stresed that SR SR/ Q.Ik

pastellar was metterlos in ts file maisterance

3111161

"'-CRETI

tenere lao a tre duénerodo do decidiato decorato come ae

---

