: '180-10145-10345|____/ 2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

: i _ LUIS CLEMENTE POSADA cARRILES “es
VOLUME 1 : :
201-300985 aie
DELETIONS:
FBI -
8/1/66 Anti-Fidel Castro Activities
7/29/66 Comandos L
9/30/65 MM 92-726 Frank Lang, "Lefty" Rosenthal;

Diego Borges; Herminio Diaz; Luis
Posada; Ramon Escarda; Frank Tamayo; _

5/17/65 2-380 - Roberto Lejos Arzu; Luis Sierra Lopez

DOD - Intelligence Information Report

7/15/65 #2750008565 Sale of Arms by Cuban Exiles

SYNOPSIS*

File indicates Posada trained in Guatemala for invasion, PM trainee
#7361. From October 1961 to March 1963 with Firestone in Ohio, from
March 1963 to March 1964 at Ft. Benning, GA with the US Army; from March
~ 1964 to September 1964 unemployed; from September 1964 to April 1965
with Pan Am Exterminating Company. Actually involved in training JURE
members. File indicates involvement in 1965 attempt to overthrow
‘Guatemalan govt, (along with Aton Constanzo Palau). During summer
of 1965 involved in passing silencers, C-4 explosive, detonators
to “Lefty" Rosenthal. Norman Rothman, Frank Tamayao and others involyec.
POA requested 4/1/65 by Agency. Possible involvement in other weapons
requests. -

bee vfe
Yala 4 dol
. :

tral Intelligence Agency
-_ no Objection to Release
Sse SANTI LED

o0g3

195-103 45


{
i
|
|

se esnatnotende

“LUIS POSADA CARRILES UIE i ee
VOLUME I (Back to’ front)
201-300985

Natl Agency Name Check 3/16/63

Shows home address: 967 Wooster Ave., Akron, Ohio
Date and Port of entry 10/10/62, Detroit, Michigan

DBA 78123 7/17/64

Leader of group of Cubans sponsored by JURE, training in
guerilla warfare in Central Florida.

UFG - 06573 1/26/65

In Dominican Rep, Santo Domingo. As of 1/13/65 crew member
aboard JURE's M/V VENUS

Cable IN 66864 1/26/65
Indicates psotponement of infiltration attempt by Manuel Ray
TOCS DB 315/00283-65 1/27/65
Indicates Posada possbly among plotters planning to take
command 6f vessel belonging to Manuel Ray, since they believe
Ray has no intention to infiltrate Cuba.
UFGA 20828 4/7/65
PRQ Part I

AKA: Bamby; Scar on center of palm, right hand, blk hair, grr
eyes, white complexion, 5'10", 175 lbs

Father: Luis Posada Gonzalez
Mother: Dolores Carriles Vega

Lists: Jorge MAs Canosa as close friend
Believes brother Raul works for Cuban govt

Divorced 6/23/63 in Chicago . Illinois. from Haria Concepcic:
Married Nieves Elina GONZALEZ Leyva 8/13/63 in Columbus,

Employment:

1/45-1/46 Sugar chemist - Central Pastora

1/46-1/48" i" - Central San Augustin

1956-3/58 Self-employed - Exterminator in Cien Fuegos, Cuba
3/58-3/59 Dept Mgr - Firestone Tire & Rubber Co... i 12

3/59-10/61 Unemployed


i
I
|

pai

‘POSADA, page 2

10/61-3/63 -Laborer = Firestone Tire, Akron, OH
3/63-3/64 2nd Lt US Amry, Ft Benning, GA
3/64-9/64 Unemployed

9/64-pres. Sprayman - Pan Am exterminating Co

Hunting and fishing, judo
Past member of JURE, member of no other group
TRAVEL:
1957 US - as tourist
1961, Feb 2 - Mexico - argentine Emb. as political asylee
1961 Feb 28 - arr US
1961 April - Guatemala, preparation for invasion
1964-65 - Santo Domingo
Cable 3/31/65 IN 35180:

Posada eventually to be used as WAVE KUROAR instructor.

Cable 3/31/65 IN 35178

Priority request for POA, presently working as auto body
repairman

POA 4/1/65 201-300985 granted 4/7/65
TDCS DB 315/01270-65 4/20/65
List of individuals recruited to participate in attempt
to overthrow Guatemalan govt:
Includes Aton Constanzo Palau; Posada
Cable 4/17/65 IN 46795
Posada given AMCLEVE-15 as crypt
UFG-7314 IN 02605 7/1/65 TOCS DB 315/02246-65
Rept Guillermo BELT Ramirez, former Cuban Amb to US asked
Anton Constanzo Palau to help form 150-man compnay for duty

in DR. Belt claimed representing US in this matter
Poada at meeting discussing plan.

-- TDCS DB 315/02243-65 7/1/65

Jorge Mas Canosa , proposed .to demolitions expert that he
travel to Spain, Mexico at expense of RECE and place
bombs in Communist installations in those countries. RECE
had been approached by Carballo (FU) for financial assistance
for an operation involving the blowing up of Soviet or Cuban
vessel in Veracruz, Mexico.

ession 125lbs of P

As of 6/28, Has Canosa had in his



POSADA,» pagi

to pe placed as charges on vessel. Mas Canosa in Texas
working out details

TDCS DB 315/02278-65 7/6/65

Roberto ALEJOZ Arzu, Guatemalan milliionaire recruiting
Cuban exiles Miami area for infiltration team to Guat. to
overthrow govt. Source tying to locate whereabouts of
silencer for M-3 machine gun, one of four delivered to Arzu
after weapons cache seized by US govt

Cable IN 11645 7/14/65

Poss. delay in plan for RECE to blow up Cuban vessel in Mexico

Cable IN 92982 6/17/65

AMCLEVE-15, demo expert, contacted by Mas Canosa on behalf
RECE. Said he was interested but speicifi details would
have to be worked out before he would commithimself. Will
continue to monitor further developments

Cable IN 18425 7/24/65

Posada colpleted two 10/b bombs for RECE. Working directly
with mas Canosa. Posada instructed to disengage from activities

Cable IN 18432 7/24/65

Posada reported Diego Borges acting as agent for 3 Americans

who seek buy pistols, explosives, blasting. caps, hand grenades
silencers. Posada believes Americans John Birch Extremists

or Ku Klux Klan. Refused. Tried to sell Borges 9mm sub-maciiin
gun w/ silencer, but it returned to Posada. Posada put Borges
in touch with Ramon Escarda for Pentolite. Posada says Tam
sold Borges 22 cal silencers, promised Posada $3000 commis

Memo WTR-1036 9/17/65

Posada under no cover arrangement but will be employed at
Tri-State engineering

~- PRQ Part I] 9/22/65

LCFLUTTER 4/14/65

Assessment: of good character, veryreliable, secuirty concc.
WCY-1066 10/25/65 memo

Technical Superviosr @$400 per month
7/21/66 WIR 1299 Memo

RE: Posada's request to ace

ackivities of
Posa



POSADA, PAGE 4

has been excellent."

UFGA 25802 8/29/66

Posada now assoc. with RECE and "Coordination of Forces"
RECE is organizing.

WCI-1492 9/7/66 Memo
Posada no longer with Tri State engineering
WCI-1501 9/21/66

Posada received phone call from mother in Cuba that brother
Robert in London on purchasing mission for GOC. Posada -
willing to try to recruit brother.

UFG-8576 9/29/66
Posada one of six men on reconaissance trip to Bahamian
island to locate suitable site for caching weapons

11/18/66 IN 41455

Billdohnson, (201-110963) told Posada on 11/17/66 |
bombing carried out by Robert E. Spining and Cuban "Mino"
(probably Gervelio Gutierrez Concepcion 201-309242, military
coordinator for MIRR) were in Apache plane carrying 600 Lbs
explosives. Pnae and crew missing. 1959 - Spining involved
purchase of lanes preparing base in Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico
for Anti-Castro group. Spining mentioned report re: illiegal
sale of aircraft to Haiti - 2/19/65.

--IN 58610 12/9/66

Posada desires to purchase 25' boat. Requests guidance
as whether he sould be allowed to do so.

12/12/66 IN 57889

Posada will be denied purchase of boat; will enhance his cover.

2/1/67 Meno

WH/3/Venezuela brequestes cancellation of POA
for their use Posdada~

Memo for record 6/26/67

Re investigation by Justice Department of Left Rosentah]

who they belive tied in with organized crime figures in Miami
area and also involved with 7 recent bombings in Miami area
Rosenthal went to Norman Rothman in DR and thru him or i
thru him Diego, Rosenthal put in touch with Posada. Rosen
understands Posada attached with CIA claims Posada s



serbian

POSADA, page 5S ie its
EE

|
{

him with caps, primers, and c-4 exploisves

-- 6/28/67 REDRAFT Note for the record - telephone conversation

On station instrcutions, Posada cooperated with Rosenthal as
intermediary, passing hand grenades and silencers in July 1965.
In Oct '66, Posada recontacted Rosenthal. Under threat of
bodily harm, Posada was forced to supply Rosentah] with

150 pencils and some fuses. Station only recently advised of
this transaction. Items not agency origin

-- 6/28/67 Memo for the record

onlighting for Rosenthal

Suggests Posada may have been mo:
when it got hetter.

and only reported transactions to agency

os



i
}

-* 5 "LUIS POSADA CARRILES eel
VOLUME 11

201-300985

-- 6/7/68 Memo IRD #72501

Posada_re assigned tof

Transferred becaus: question of bona fides,
possibie affilation of Cuban intelligence thru relatives;
unreported association with gangster elemnets; thefts from
CIA, plus other itesms. Posada interrogated

Posada sensitive to questions relating to dealings with
Lefty Tosenthal, possibly over amount of items he had been
instrumental in getting for Rosenthal.

Posada's brother possibly member of Cuban CP (Robertto) ,

but also believed brother Raul may by with Cuban intelligence.
Raul spent a year of training in the USSR in 1962, to best

of Posada's recollection.

Posada took several items with him to Caracas which were poss.
originally LNHARP or CIA items: 3 or 4 smoke grenades,
booby traps, delay fuse, primer cord, MK2 grenades, 10 pencils,
metascope, etc.

-- PR Patr I Update QM 15488 9/28/68
Presently with Ministry of Internal Relations for Venez
Friend - Augusto Val Des Miranda

-- 5/22/68 IN 15683

Indicates Posada had contact in 1966 with brothers, when
Robertp travelled to England 1966 . Contact thru correspondden

-- IN 08516 5/10/68

ef OMG.
Request test for him totake him off "hostile"; list

-- IN 01396 5/1/68
Agedo Lugo, on gangster mission for Chuchu Fernandez, Mian,
saidto be on look out for Cubans sent from Cuba to
assassinate Pres. Leoni. : Francisco Linares; Cindte Wm Galvess
Abelard Colome, aka Furry/ -

-- Intell Info Cable TDCSCB 315/01471-68 4/25/68

ey in ¢

RE: fnuvolverent ai the Venez


:_ 2" POSADA, page 2 eee

‘ attack Cuba.
2/68 investigation in Venez or reports that Venezuelans
procuring arms for Cuban exile group. Two Cubans identified:
Salvador Romani Orue Garcia and Reinaldo Bonifacio Gonzalez
Leon Garcia, close frined of Masferrer Rojas. Plan cancelled
when it became clear that Ministry of Interior knew about
Ministry of Defense's involvement.

-- IN 92196 4/16/68

Posada working on @igage case involving poss. smuggling from
Miami to Venez. Involved: Agedo Lugo, AKA E1 Negro Lugo.
Negro who infiltrated by LNERGO into black power groups in

Miami.
se

a rca 15345 4/10/68
FACTION AQent OF

Indicates Posada @eggg ASH
guerilla training in Cuba 66-67 indicate training heavy on
explosives 7

-- GB@Pisi98 27/19/68

Indicates Posada requested curare poison for hypodermic
needles on behalf Gustavo Ortiz Faez. Request made to
TRASH = 15 reporting back vO agi without Posada's knowledg

-- 2/2/68 IN 36499 Cite director 71540

Tendency Posada become involved clandestine sabotage activitie
p X to be handles as
Ons MO JOIN

A

e ratd O ia A. pt

-- Request for cancellation of Posada 8/8/67 ,

-- 7/25/67 UFGA 28079

Reports Posda terminated 7/11167 because he resigned

from position as miltary coordinator for RECE. JMWAVE does
not have current need, Plans to seek employement in Caracas
thru an old friend who resides there.

-- 9/7/67 IN 47458

GRAND willing accept

$350 per month plus
Contract renewable

contract as salary
are for one.



LUIS POSADA:.CARRILES
VOLUME IT

DELETIONS:

DOD intel info report 5/8/68 Venez. Govt aid to Cuban amti-Castro exiles
# 2 753 0015 68 7



LUIS POSADA CARRILES : oa ‘.

VOLUME TM.

(Detailed, docuemtn by docuemnt reviews of file will not be done, although
entire file will be read and summarized

Synopsis;

In April 1970 he was questioned regarding allegations that he

might have been involved with James Melville Hart and Orlando Garcia
Vasquez in $3000,000 in arms shipments Venezuela. There are indications
that purchasers were American rightists. Posada denied involvement
with these individuals, slaiming he had met Garcia In 1969 and had
not seen him since.

In March 9172 Posada's PRQ Part II was submitted.

In September 1972 there are references in POsada's file to Ricardo
MOrales, Aton Constanzo Palau. Morales told Posada he is affiliated
with LNERGO.

Memorandum pf Oral committment to Posada 1/1/73

February '73 - Posada may be involved in smuggling cocaine from
Colombia thru Venezuela to Miami, also in counterfeit US money in
Venezuela.

March 1973 - Decide not to directly confront Posada with allegation
so as not to compromise ongoing investigation.

CIA cables indicate concern that Posada seriou potential liability.
Anxious to terminate association promptly if allegations prove true.
By April 1973 it seems sure that Posada involved with narcotics
drug trafficking - seen with known big time drug trafficker.


‘LUIS. POSADA CARRILES ce GEER? TEA

VOLUME IIT

DELETIONS:
DEA_
3/14/73 Luis Posada BNDD 1622
3/12/73 EE ef BNDD 1554
3/12/73 i . ZB-73-0001 7 t
2/5/73 General file-HumbertoTrueva, SGI -9-0006
"3/12/73 Luis Posada BNDD 1585 Miami
STATE:
2/26/73 Luis Posada - Humberto Trueva Caracas 1686
3/8/73 Luis Posada Caracas 1981
2/28/73 Difficulties in sale of voting machines to Venezuela
Memo of conversation (EMB-Caracas)
FBI

3/13/70 James Melville Hart RA-Venez. 105-193849 Wash, DC


LUIS POSADA CARRILES

VOLUME IV

Synopsis:
H

File covers period from apprximately March 1973 to September 1976.
In early 1973, agencies covering Posada's movemnets to Spain,
Ialy. Interrogated May 1973 and tested in March and found
guilty only of having the wrong kind of friends. Interrogators
were convinced by his denial of drug trafficking. He had been
in contact with such individuals of interest to the BNDD as Jose
Gomez and Humberto Trueva.
August 17, 1973 a memo indicates (RESD coverase of Posada's
phone was discontinued after it was ascertained that conversations
during the time of coverage indicated he was not involved with
drug trafficking.
January 1, 1974 Posada requests whether he can provide Domingo
Abreu with a Venezuelan passport. The request was denied. Memo
declares that agency cannot permit controlled agents to become
directly involved in illicit drug trafficking. is
May 1974 Report indicates Posada does not intend to look for
another job (folowing the loss of his job).
dune 30, 1974, Posada's was amiably terminated from agency.
February 1976 cable indicates Posada retains significant contacts
with extremists exiles, including regular correspondence with
Orlando Bosch.
Orlando Bosch reported!in Venezuela on Feb 2, 1976 travelling on
Chilean passport. Bosch of interest to FBI since early 1975
fers Report that WKSCARLET-2 saw Frank Castro in Venezuela who said he was
Pace there to kill Pascal Allende and that Rolando Otero was willing
to help.
: Posada unwitting of WKSCARLET's contact with BKHERALD.
Report in Feb 1976 of attempt on Andres Pascal Allende or Henry
Kissinger. Attempt against Kissenger allegedly planned for Costa Rica
Posada informing agency that he must go thru with attempt to
contact Bosch as though he did not know that Bosch had been
arrested. Posada concerned that Bosch will blame Posada for
leak of plans. Posada allegedly going to see Bosch tes CostacRica re:
his own investigatin of a letter bomb sent in Venezuela.
POsada wishes to contact FrankCastro in Costa Rica also.
March 1976 DEA requesting informtion regarding Nieves Elina Gonzalez
de Posada, wife of Posada regarding cocaine smuggling from Colombia.
March 1976 cable indicates Posada former (@ p

with —whor po maintains contact.

February 1976 Cable regarding Bosch presence in venezuela for

plot against Pascal Allende

June 1976 Posada seeking help of CIA for visa to the U.S. for
vacation.

September 1976 Posada recorded as private investigator at present,
formerly officer in DISIP, dismissed when Carlos Andres Perez became
President. Posada was known at DISIP as "Comisario Basilio."
Posada trying at this time to make a deal thru an emissary with
BKHERALD to provide information to BKHERALD.



$7, Sl. STRUTS POSADA CARRILES:

a

VOLUME IV i
DELETIONS:
BNDD (DEA)
3/13/73 Miami Posada BNDD XB-73-0001
2/6/73 " Debreifing of SGI- BNDD General File Trueva, H.
92-0006
3/23/73 HQ Posada-ZB-73-0001 ~BNDD Telegram 1846
3/23/73 HQ a BNDD 2 1847
3/16/73 HQ a BNDD " 1688
3/15/73 HQ ie BNDD 1 . 1657
| STATE:
| 4/4/73 AMEMB Caracas Letter rogatory in cae of elections
Caracas 2866 systems corp vs. AVM Corp.



~ <1. BUTS POSADA: CARRILES

VOLUME V

Synopsis:

File covers period from 10/9/76 ‘to 8/25/77. Indicates Posada arrested
in Venezuela on October 12, 1976 for October6, 1976 bombing of

Cubana Airlines airplane. Posada suspected of working with

Orlando Bosch and others in plot. Also mentioned: Ricardo Morales
Navarrete, Freddy Lugo, Hernand Ricardo Lozano, etc.

Persons suspected in Letelier killing also mentioned. CIA did

trace on them for FBI.

DELETIONS: State Dept

8/25/77 Caracas 8438 Govt charges "Cubana Airliner:
Defendents with military crimes"
3/9/77 Caracas Orlando Bosch & Letelier ASsass.
1/22/77 Caracas 0680 Charge that Posada implicated ir
CIA plot to kill Castro publishe
10/20/76 State 259140 OMANG Query about Poasada
10/19/76 Caracas 12401 Press queries re: Bosch/Cubana
case
10/19/76 LDX message 0714 Additional questions
BL
6/8/77 Director Salvador Alderguia; Espionage
2/15/77 Coordination of United Rev. Orgs(CORU)
11/4/76 Director Bombing of Cubana Airlines DC-8 near Barbados,

West Indies, 10/6/76

-- 230017Z 962167

Cable indicates Dominican Air Force Colonel Juan Armand
Montes attended meeting of anti-Castro exiles in DR esyly
November 1976 at home of former senator of Batista govt.
Meeting took place when Orlando Bosch and others discussed
terrorist acts such as placing bombs on Cuban aircraft.
Participants of meeting included Colonel Abreu; Luis Posada
and others.

-~ IN 133384 12/17/76

Info that Posada arrived in Santo


¢ 7). POSADA, page 2 i : on

Departed dune 7.
-- Memo for FBI director CIR 316/04881-76

RE: information regarding anti-castro figures possibly
involved in NA violations. Info requested on following
persons: Guillermo Novo Sampol; Ignacio Novo Sampol;
Freddy Lugo Alejandrina; Hernan Ricardo Lozano; Orlando
Bosch Avila; Luis Posada Carriles; Roberto Carballo Diaz.

Be (ee 11/15/76

Memo re: Byron W. Gutradi knew Posada while Posada

at Ft Benning (1964)(Note: Posada at Ft Benning 1963-64)
Gutradt had already terminated relationship with BKHERALD,
Posada generally knowledgeable of Gutradt’s background,
although two were not close.

Gutradt met Bosch circa 2963 in Miami when Gutradt was x
training Bosch in BKHERALD-sponsored program.

~- IN 088993 11/3/76

Results re judicial hearing on investigation of Cubana Airline
bombing: Detention orderd for Posada, Bosch, Lugo, Lozano.

-- 937064 0300082

Report received by Panamanian Natl Guard - recvd letter 10/22/76.
from proprietor of "Pasco's SeaFood" 1030 West 23rd St, Hialeah,
with info re: Cubana airline incident (apparently to establish
bona fides with Panamanian govt.) Says Posada responsible

for plane bombing with assistance of Aldo Vera. Bosch went

to Venezuela to settle differences between Vera's group and
Bosch's group.

-- IN 081802 10/27/76

RE: Evidence to support Posada's involvement includes billing
invoices seized in raid on ICICA offices (Posada's office)

-- IN 074978 = 10/20/76

Indicates agency had no relationship with Posada's investigative
agency.

-- 10/20/76 To Immed Director

Formal termination of Posada 2/13/76. Contact beyond 1974 deeis
to terminate Posada due to necessity of resolving outstanding
tax matters. After 2/76 contacts with fap wero at Posada's
own initiative to volunteer information in return for
assistance U.S. visa for self and family. Told ayency 2/76
of plot of Bosch and Frank Castro against Salvador Allende

6/22/76 Posada again contacted GRE reptd info concerning



POSADA, page 3

possible exile plans to blow up Cubana Airliner leaving Panama
and requested visa assistacne. Last @iyded contact few days
later for counseling on this matter. Unsuccessfull attempts
made to contact Posada 10/7/76.

-- IN 074149 10/19/76

Indicates WKTANGO-1 (K-1) name popping up in reference to
bombing. As of yet no hard evidence linkir. W-1 or Ricardo
Morales in bombing. May have become accessories after the fact.

