'180-10147-10166 [ 2022 Reneast ballads THE | PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION Repores ACT OF 1992 |
Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted pm bly,
from ClA—controlled documents.)

In 1964,— the CIA “advised the Warren Commission that

the Agency:,never had a relationship of any kind with Lee
Harvey Oswald. Testifying before the Commission, John

A. McCone, who was then Director of Central Intelligence,

indicated that Oswald "was not an agent, employee, or

:
informant of the Central Intelligence Agency. The Agency

NS.

never contacted him, interviewed him, talked with him, or z°

solicited any reports or information from him, or communicated

with him directly or in any other manner...Oswald was never

{
i

associated or connected directly or indirectly in any way

Sh.

whatsoever with the Agency." __/ McCone's: testimony was ©

NEP

corroborated by Richard M. Helms, then the Agency's

‘Deputy Director for Plans and therefore the person directly

SR.

i responsible for clandestine operations. _/ Once these

i 4
&
assurances had been received, _/ the record reflects no wag
CIAHAS NOOBJECTIONTO
; HS Dea 4 im oh ,
og: . LEASE OF THIS 00
Classification: FEL irre |

—(— 1 Classified by derivation:

21Y7- ; Honeemmee
sg LS ae es Y SF Sy Ms.



3

EY LF ST LF LT SEF 29 &

O Claséification Oo

(This form is to be used for material extracted —
from ClA—controlled documents.)

further efforts by the Warren Commission to investigate
this matter.

The Committee sought to resolve the issue of Oswald's
Fale fecdied S

oe with the CIA by conducting an inquiry

—

that went beyond: the thréshold level’ of obtaining statements’

from two of the Agency's most senior officials. Instead,

_@ more analytical investigative approach was utilized.

First, an effort was made to identify Eieneesnesd either
in Oswald's life or in the manner in which his case was
handled by the CIA which were potentially suggestive of an
intelligence association of.-some kind. Then, an intensive
file review was undertaken which included both the CIA's
144-volume Oswald file and hundreds of others from the CIA,

as well as the FBI, State Department, and the Department of

sere

sory,

|
a

Defense, __/ Based upon these file reviews, a series of
og: . {
Classification:
Leena? et ae i Classified by derivation: _____


|

a ales

Neate

‘C). Classification: oO

(This form is to be used for material extracted
‘from CIA*céntrolled documents.)

interviews, depositions, and executive session hearings were
conducted with both Agency and non-Agency witnesses. The
contacts with present and former CIA Personnel covered a
broad range of individuals, including staff and division
chiefs, glandestire Gase officers, area desk officers,
research analysts, secretaries, and clerical es
In total, more than 125 persons, including at least 50
Present and former CIA employees, were pe BOE
regarding this issue.

The results of this investigation confirmed the
Warren Commission testimony given by Messrs. McCone and
Helms. There was no indication in Oswald's CIA file
suggestive in any way that he had ever had any contact with
the oon | Moreover, the Agency employees who would have
been in a position to know if Oswald had been associated
with the CIA u foray deniea that he had been an agent

ication:

pase
aS "| © Classified by derivation:

i


oO Classification: : ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted i
from CIA=<ontrolled documents.) 5

{
3 or connected with the CIA in any other capacity. / 7 j

&

Finally, taken in their entirety, the items of circumstantial .

evidence that the Committee had selected for investigation

J as possibly indicative of an intelligence association did |

eel bes not support ‘the allegation that Oswald. had an. intelligence :
‘ agency relationship of some-kind.
| This finding, however, must be qualified because the

een,

i * same institutional characteristics, in terms of the Agency's

Se extreme compartmentalization and the complexity of its

enormous filing system, that are designed to preclude
penetration by foreign powers have the simultaneous effect

of making Congressional inquiry very difficult: For example,

CIA personnel testified to the Committee that a review of

sere were

Agency files will not always indicate whether an individual

sere,

was affiliated with the Agency in any respect. Nor was

there always an independent means of verifying that all
Classification:
canta Cea

| Classified by derivation:


CO Classification: | Cc:

(This form. is to be used for material extracted
from ClA+coritrolled documents.) .

materials requested from the Agency were, in fact, ee
Accordingly, any finding which is essentially negative in
nature, such as that Lee Harvey Oswald was neither associated
with the CIA in any way nor ever even. in contact with that

institution,.cannot be rendered in absolu

To the extent possible, however, the Committee's
investigation was designed to overcome the Agency's
institutional obstacles that potentially impede effective

external scrutiny of thé CIA. fhe vast majority of CIA

eee niet /
files made available to the Committee were reviewed in
te geen

~_Unsanitized form. iwhese files were evaluated both for their
substantive content re col) potential procedural
irregularities suggestive of possible tampering. After
review, the files were used as the basis for examination
and cross-examination of present and former Agency

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

rene

An


potters

Nets

Senile

Ci Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—contralled documents.)

employees. Because of the number of Agency personnel who
were queried, it is highly probable that any significant
inconsistencies between the files and the witnesses’

responses would have been established.

Classification:
-~ 6 | Classified by derivation:

ae a ae a


J

Ned de

a?

O Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA+<ontrolled documents.)

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

1. CIA Personnel in the Soviet Russia Division

In addition to obtaining testimony from former
directors John H. McCone and Richard M. Helms, the
Colitis ttge’ interviewea individuals who were chiefs ef the?
CIA's Soviet Russia division during 1959-1963.* These
individuals categorically denied that Oswald had ever
been associated in any capacity with the CIA.

To investigate this matter further, the persons who
had been chiefs and/or deputy chiefs during 1959-62 of the
three units within the Soviet Russia division which were

responsible respectively for clandestine activities,

*The chief(s) of the Soviet Russia division from August 1962
to Septembér 1963 was not interviewed by the Committee.

Classification:

ae ae | Clossified by derivation:

AD £89 BF £9 £89 —


aN bewetaain

"Nea

"Neen

Nee

\

= a

Cy “Classification: oO

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

American legal travelers, and research in support of

clandestine activities.* The heads of the clandestine

activity séction stated{during this period the CIA had

very few operatives in the Soviet Union and that Oswald

|. was. not oné ‘of them. — Moreover, they “stateal that because of

his. obvious instability, Oswald would never have met the

Agency's standards for use in the field.**. Bhe heads of the

*For the unit that was responsible for American legal
travelers, only the years. 1959-61 were covered. However,
since every American legal traveler who was involved in this
program was recruited before his trip to the Soviet Union,
the relevant year for Lee pean Oswald was 1959 because that
is when he sheceimia iat aa re United States.

clas
**One officer eee remote possibility that an

individual could be run by someone as part of a "vest pocket”
abate without other Agency officials knowing about it, det
en this possibility, as it applies to Oswald, was negated by
the deputy chie -Of-the Soviet Russia >
clandestine activities sectiony) commented that in 1963 he was|
involved in a review of every tiandestine operation ever run
‘ in the Soviet Union, and that Oswald was not involved in
ine any of. these cases.

a

care exe Low Na why wilh a 2 uty yk
alo : 4) an (Ture!

Classification:

—§ “| Clossified by derivation:

qiesisresias

a

ee,

ener



eserans

te geessseei z eae
| “also. advised the Committee that only "clean-cut" college O

6

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA~controlled documents.)

© Classification:

Sek
Soviet Russia division's Agerican—tegat Traveter—pregram,-

Sought coopenl of wa by
which “eiadaajy ioontonnentecenitnin the Soviet Union

as a means of obtaining information and identifying

possible subjects for recruitment, informed the Committee

‘that they met with each person. involved in ‘this activity’

and that Oswald was not one of them. - These Agency officials /

\ graduates were used in this program, and that Oswald did a é

Poal\ not meet this criteria. ‘Finally, the Agency officers in
if

charge of the Soviet Russia division's research section
in support of clandestine activities indicated that, had
Oswald been contacted by the Agency, their section would

probably have been informed, but that this, in fact, never

occurred.

Classification:

irate
ANI | Classified by derivotion:

a el ed

seem,

Serer |

eee,

sere,


ag Votaasies

Classif fication:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<éiirolled documerits.)

2. CIA Personnel

The Committee investigated the allegation of former
CIA employee James Wilcott, who testified in executive
session that shortly after the assassination of President
Kennedy he was advised by fellow employees at the CIA's
1%
(frorero Station] that Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent who
had received financial disbursements under an assigned
cryptonym. Wilcott explained that he had been employed
by the CIA as a finance, officer from 1957 until his resignation
from the Agency in 1966. In this capacity, he served és a
a Ce
fiscal account assistant on the support staff
Station) fron June of 1960 to June 1964. Wilcott advised
that in addition to his regular responsibilities, he had
served security duty on his off-hours in order to supplement

his income. This additional job put him in contact with

Classification:

‘a / Oo- ' Classified by derivation:

SF <F £F I LF LF LF VI.

erren,

Sree Serre.

wwrran

or oN

Nr,

are,


gs Honrr aeesenD or

encima.

satel,

Classification: uv

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

[b

other employees of the froxve Stationpwho would come by the
office and engage in informal conversations regarding
politics and rere work.

Wilcott told the Committee that on the day after President
Kennedy's assassination, he was informed by a CIA case
officer that Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent. Wilcott

further testified that he was told that Oswald had been

7

assigned a cryptonym and that Wilcott himself had

\ ba unknowingly disbursed payments for Oswald's project using

— eae tues terme _

that cryptonym. Although Wilcott was unable to identify the
specific case officers who had initially informed him of
Oswald's Agency relationship, he named several employees

of ena Gore statiog with whom he believed he had subsequently
discussed the allegations.

Wilcott advised the Committee that after learning

Classification: MV

eet | Classified by derivation:

serorca, feoem,  weTT™ Serer, sore eer wen sommes reine Nees

Sr,

Ey LY SF LF LI I LI ke ae \!


aceon

Nees ei,

\, Ndaagtt

ean

ed a a ae aT ae hai aa ono

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—conitrolled documents.)

of the alleged Oswald connection to the CIA, he had never

rechecked che fone statiog) ai sbursenent records for

evidence of the Oswald project. He explained that this was

because at that time he viewed the information as mere shop

talk and gave it little:credence. Neither did he report

the allegations to any formal investigative bodies following

the assassination as he considered the information to be hearsay.
In an attempt to: investigate Wilcott's allegations

concerning Lee Harvey Oswald's relationship with the CIA, the

Committee interviewed several present and former CIA

employees who were selected on the basis of the position each

had held with the CIA during the years 1954-1964. Among

those persons interviewed were individuals whose responsibilities

covered a broad spectrum of areas within enefforve Ea)

of

during this period, including the chief and deputy chiet (oz }

Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

SS EF LF LT

seem

cree,

Serr, EURO

SUR NE, seormen, Sear,

corms,

Soren

a

a aa ae ae


pNcrvvonea tei aaa ae

Ne,

ace

Classification: _.

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

p?
(statscd as well as officers in finance, registry, the Soviet
Branch and counterintelligence. _/ The Committee's
investigation refuted Wilcott's allegation.

la

During the course of their employment in tne (Zoxyo
station) none of these Fey interviewed had ever seen
any documents or heard any information indicating that Lee
Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent. _/ This allegation was not
known to anyone until the time of publication of Warren
Commission critical literature and the Garrison investigation
in the late 1960's. _/ Some of the individuals, including
the chief of counterintelligence within the Soviet Russia
Branch fin Der} expressed the belief that it was possible

that Lee Harvey Oswald had been recruited by the KGB

during his military tour of duty in Japan as the CIA's

(Goxve Statio) had identified a KGB program aimed at recruiting

Classification:

- _,
13 i Classified by derivation:

wren

Sere

Sy yr 7 SY £29 FoF GE ae sy\)


Dag

catty a paar a? sor ees numer muy

Classification:
)

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClAS<énirolled documiénis.)

U.S. military personnel in Tokyo during the period that
Oswald was stationed there. An intelligence analyst whom
Wilcott had specifically named as having been involved,
following the assassination, in a conversation regarding
the Oswald-CIA agent allegation told the Committee that he
was not in the fexe station) at that time. A review of this
individual's Office of Personnel file 7 in
fact, he had been transferred from the foxye Kalen Va the
United States in 1962. _
|

The chief of the froxyo station) from 1961-1965 stated
that, had Oswald been used by the Agency within their
jurisdiction, they certainly would have known about it.
Similarly, almost all those persons interviewed who worked

o

in the Soviet Russia branch /of that station] indicated that

they would have known if Lee Harvey Oswald had, in fact,

Classification: “4 /

7 ! 4 —— | Classified by derivation:

Serer, Serr, Nee

were, Scecaad wee ween,

ery,

rete

scone,

I SY LI <I §I LI LI LF LI.


Neen Sedidill Nae Numa Ne Nu

1

ay

eed

Classification

ffertestestesseesetoneeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeseeeeeeeeesy

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

been recruited as a CIA agent when he was in Japan. /

These persons expressed the opinion that had Oswald been

recruited without their knowledge, it would have been a rare

exception contrary to the working policy and guidelines of

3.

(2

‘Tokyo Station}

ene fe

Lee Harvey Oswald's CIA File

The CIA has long acknowledged that, prior to the

President's assassination, it had a personality file on

Lee Harvey Oswald.

This file, which in Agency terminology

is referred to as a 201 file, was opened on December 9, 1960.

The Agency has explained to the Committee that 201 files are

opened when a person is considered to be of potential

intelligence or counterintelligence significance. The

opening of such a file is designed to serve the purpose of

cons did 35m

Cet ase

E(t amMi NACE eed WE information pertaining to that

Classification:

LET

Pas

Classified by derivation:

Pee ET

LER

wren, Neen

ween,

Ser, Sere wrrere, sere men,

Serre

Nee,


Neti, Neca Neue Seuanueel

Nesta

erreur

es

cored

Nee

Cement aul wi tl exe

G Classifiatign: set

(This form is to be used for material extrotted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Raids

Sitar
individual into one contralized@Gecoras systen elonging

to the Deputy Directorate for Operations, that component

of the Agency responsible for clandestine activities.
The existence of a 201 file does not necessarily
connote any actual relationship or ‘contact.with the CIA.

Por example, the Oswald file

because he was considered to be a potential counterintelligence
threat. Oswald's file containea absolutely no indication that
he had ever had any relationship with the CIA. Nevertheless,
because the Committee was aware of at least one instance

(in an unrelated case) where an Agency officer had apparently
contemplated the use of fakea files with forged documents, _/

special attention was given to procedural questions that were

occasioned by this file review.

Classification:

et Jian | Classified by derivation:

WITT Ty,

we

erie



; i: ra Classification: —__-__ a

(This form is to be used for material extracted :
from ClA—controlled documents.) ;

a) Why was Oswald's 201 file opened on December 9, 1960,

Ncsasalihs

more than a year after his attempt to defect to the

Soviet Union? —

A confidential State Department telegram dated
t
J October. 31, 1959, which was sent from Moscow to the CIA,
| reported that Lee Harvey Oswald, a recently discharged
marine, had appeared at the United States Moscow embassy !
3 * to renounce his Americah citizenship and "has offered

Soviets any information he has acquired as fan/ enlisted

=

radar operator." / At least three other communications of

a confidential nature which gave more detail on the Oswald 1

b, aayr tonnes

case were apparently* sent to the CIA during the same

*Two of these documents, Warren Commission Exhibits 917 and
918, contained routing notations indicating that they had been
sent to the CIA, but the documents themselves were never

ri
] found in Oswald's file.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:



4
i

C}  Classificdtion: te FF
{
(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted |
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)
approximate ‘time period. _ / Agency officials questioned by
the Committee have testified that the substance of the

October 31, 1959 cable was sufficiently important to. warrant

the opening of a 201 file. In fact, however, Oswald's file

was not opened until December 9, 1960.
The CIA was requested by the Committee to indicate

where documents pertaining to Oswald had been disseminated
internally and stored prior i the opening of his 201 file.
In response, the Agency advised the Commi eee that because
document dissemination retords of low national security
significance are retained for only a five-year period, they
are no longer in existence the years 1959-1963. aad

Consequently, the Agency was unable to explain either when

these documents -had been received or by which component.

Classification: { f
ae PF Classified by derivation:

ovine,

on eee werner.

i
!


Neen

Q : Class

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

An Agency memorandum, dated September 18, 1975,

“indicates that Oswald's file was opened on December 9, 1960

by virtue of the receipt of five documents: two from the

FBI, two from the State Department, and one from the Navy. /

reasoning, however,.is\ inconsistent with the presence
in Oswald's file of four State Department documents dated in
1959 and a fifth dated May 25, 1960. It is, of course,
possible that the September 18, 1975 memorandum is referring
to State Department documents that were received by the DDO
in October and November of 1960 and that the earlier State
Department communications had been received by the CIA's
(>

~ Oa
Office of Security but not the NBO. In the absence of
dissemination records, however, the issue cannot be

resolved on this basis.

The September 18, 1975 memorandum also states that

Classification: \ q
- KOO | Classified by derivation:

LY LF LI LF LF LE LF LF LI \


Nee Nes

i

ia Ceiraeriet

O Classification: ee a

(This form is to be used for material i wa
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

ae :
Oswald's file was opened on December 9, 1960]as a result of

= - {
[fhis "dezection’ to the USSR on 10/31/59 and renewed interest

in Oswald brought about by his queries concerning possible

ania a

reentry into the United States." / / there is no indication,

g tiebee

eal eeaiesatettee aa
showever, that Oswald i deel any Aen of returning.

to any United States Gove amie official until mid-February
: of 1961. Finally, reference to the original form that was

used to start.a file on Oswald does not resolve this issue

Nae

wf

> because the appropriate slot which would normally indicate

a

—
4

— gh the "source document" that. initiated the action makes reference
$

Ca to an Agency component rather than to a dated document.

on ,

The Committee was able to determine the basis for the

q

fe,

? opening. of Oswald's file on December 9, 1960 by interviewing
i and thén deposing the Agency employee who was directly

responsible for initiating the opening action. This individual

Classification:
. | Classified by derivation:

LP LF LF LF LF LF"

women,

Niemi


j

} weneres

J

Ci Classification: an a)

(This form is to be used for material extracted —
from ClA—controlled documents.)

” xplained that the CIA had received a request from the State
Department for information concerning American defectors.
After compiling the requested information, she responded
to the inquiry and then opened a 201 file on each defector

involved. = /

Pennie vain was corroborated by review of State

Departmé ich indicated that such a request, in fact, had
" been made of. the CIA on October 25, 1960. Attached to the

State Depart ment letter was 4 list of known defectors;

Lee Harvey Oswald's name as that 1st. _/. The CIA
responded to this request on November 21, 1960 by providing
the requested information and adding two names to the
State Department's original list.

Significantly, the Committee reviewed the files of

eleven individuals on the original State Department list

Classification: _-7\7

on Classified by derivation:

oe

Sr, eA, Sor, Terran,

er,

rN

a a

Sie,


C} Classification: oO

(This form is to be used for ‘materiol extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

and determined that the files for each of the five (including

; : Oswald) who did not have Agency (201) files prior to the |
receipt of the State Department inquiry were opened in

December 1960. In each case, the slot for “source document" j

Qe

made reférence to he’ Same Agéricy: component rather than to {
| a dated document.
Even so, this analysis only explains why a file on j

j Oswald was finally opened; standing alone it does not explain {

we 7 |
the Heesnety tng dete s0 the opening of the file. To :

determine whether such a delayed opening was necessarily

i venenes

unusual, the Committee reviewed the files of 13 of the 14 |

persons on the CIA's November 21, 1960 response to the State

on

Department and of 16 other defectors (from an original list

of 380) who were American born, had defected during the

years 1958-1963, and who had returned to the United States

Classification:

a
LL) | Classified by derivation:

Tae Fe LP



ra Classification: ee oO

(This form is to be used for. material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

during that same time hana Of 29 files that were reviewed,
eight individuals had been the subject of 201 files prior to
the time of their defection. In only four of the remaining
twenty-one iV un 201 files opened at the time of
defection. The files on the 17 other. defectors were opened
pie arene months to several years after the’ time of defection.

At the very least, this file review indicated that
during 1958-63 the opening of a file years after a defection
was not at all uncommon. In many cases the opening was
triggered by some event, independent of the defection, which -
drew attention to the individual involved.

b) Why was Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file opened under

the name Lee Henry Oswald?

‘Lee Harvey Oswaldts 201 file was mistakenly opened

under the name Lee Henry Oswald. No Agency witness was able

Classification:

pneleVah Ja | Classified by derivation:

£
if
f
?

wt

SSE,

EN,

SUE NIT IFT,

eae,

Seem erma,



ccsonseetunton

C Classification::

o

(This form is: to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Naa

é specifically to explain how this mistake was made, All

‘Agency personnel, however, including the person who initiated
the file opening, testified that this must have been occasioned
innocently by bureaucratic error. Moreover, the Committee
received substantial testimony to the effect that: this exror

would not have prevented Oswald's name from being elicited

from the CIA's filing system during a routine name trace dorie

Wéven

under the name Lee Henry Oswald.
—

¢) What do the letters "AG," which-are written ‘in the

per Se

Space for "Other Identification" on Oswald's 201

Opening form, connote?

paccieceeeea

The form used to initiate the opening of a 201 file

| for Lee Harvey Oswald containsthe designation AG ina box
marked "Other Identification." Because this term was considered

to be of potential significance in resolving the issue of
evo. torl 9
Oswald's alleged Agency relationship, the Sa Nake asked to
Classification:

fa 14 “| Classified by derivation:

LI LY LI MI LF LI LE LF a


ae , Oo Classification:

°
3 12
(This form is to'be used tot material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)

Ney

pencsenre
corm.

explain its meaning.

The Agency's response indicated that "AG" is the OI

("Other Identification") code meaning “actual or potential

svermn serene,

? defectors to the East or the SINO/SOVIET Bloc including

_, Cuba," and that anyone so. described could have the OI

Ne

code "AG." This. codé was reportedly added to Oswald's

] opening form because of the. comment on the form that he had

. defected to the Soviet Union in 1959.

An Agency official who was (Pd records expert and

3 for many years had been involved in the CIA's investigative
fete efforts concerning the John F. Kennedy assassination, gave

the Committee a somewhat different explanation of the

j circumstances surrounding the term "AG" and its placement on

serene, sermon, SaaS Seen er, sore,

Oswald's opening.form. This individual testified that "AG"

wera,

was an example of a code used to aid in preparing computer

listings of occupational groupings or intelligence affiliations:
assification:

sree,

| Classified by derivation:


cae

Anew

6) Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIAcontrolled documénts:)

He explained that these codes always utilized two létters and
that in this case, the first letter "A" must have reprecented
Communism, while the second letter would represent some
category within the Communist structure.

His recollection was that at the time of the
assassination the "AG" code was not yet in existence because
there were no provisions then in effect within the Agency for
the indexing of American defectors. ‘He recalled that it was
only during the life of the Warrén Commission that the CIA
realized that its records system lacked provisions for

indexing an individual such as Oswald. Consequently, the

ae
—— AKO
CIA then revised a -hemm@book to include authorization

for indexing American defectors and established a code for

its computer system to be used for the category of “American

defectors." Although this individual did not know when the
Classification:
_
-v | Classified by derivation:

eA OW YA TRA wma | SE

wan,

p


in ee

i, ncn

|
|
a

C

Faas See
C4 Classification:

(This form is to.be used for material extracted
from ClA=<ontiolled documents.)
j

|

notation "AG" was added to Oswald's opening sheet, he presumed
that it would have to have been following the addition of
the American defector code, thus placing the time somewhere

in the middle of the Warren Commission's investigation. - He

éxplained ‘that it was difeicult to determine when any. of the
notations on the opening sheet were made, since it was standard
procedure to update the forms whenever. necessary so that they
were as reflective as possible of the available information.
Finally, this individual testified that the regulations
regarding the use of this occupation. and intelligence code

specifically prohibited indicating that a particular person

was either an employee of the Agency or someone who was used

by the Agency. _/ This prohibition was designed to prevent
anyone from being able to produce any Kind of categorical

listing of CIA employees, contacts, dér connections: _/

Classification:

— Lh y ! Classified by derivation:

4

ae


i
i
H
3

‘Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CIA+controlled documents.)

d) Why does the opening form for Lee Harvey Oswald's

201 file indicate that the file was to be restricted?
The form that was used to initiate the opening of Lee

Harvey Oswald's 201 file contains a notation indicating that

“the file:was to be "restricted." This indication was

considered potentially significant because of the CIA's
practice of restricting agents' files to persons on a "need
to know" basis.

Further investigation, however, revealed that restricting
access to a file was not necessarily indicative of any relation-
ship with the CIA.

The individual who actually placed the restriction on
Oswald's file testified that this was done simply to allow
her to remain aware of any developments that might have

occurred with regard to the file. This purpose was achieved

because any peeson seeking access to the file first had. to
assification:

ae x + Classified by derivation:

LOTT,

SEER were em

ITT,

AE,

wn,

SY LEY LE EF LE LE LEP LIF


"Neeetiinin

Nee Nitec

x See bike ae

Nall,

Neate

§
4

OQ ‘Classification: oO

(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted
from CIA=controlled documents.).

notify the restricting officer; at that time the restricting
officer could be apprised of any developments possibly
necessitating access to. the file by someone else.

This testimony was confirmed by a CIA records expert

<who further testified. that, had the file been permanently

ovate as well as restricted, the sree of a relationship

with the CIA would have been greater. There was no indication

on Oswald's form that it had been .placed on permanent charge.
Finally, the Comma eee reviewed the files of four other

defectors which had been opened at the same time and by the

same person as Oswald's, and determined that each of their

files had similarly been es Each of these other

individuals had been on the list of defectors that had been

exchanged by the CIA and State Department. None of the files

pertaining to these other defectors had any evidence suggestive

Classification:

_ ap 7! Classified by derivoti
LY LP LI LF a F



Classification: ee ra)

(This form is to be used for material extracted i

from ClA—controlled documents: b
i H
: of a possible intelligence agency association. 3
i : ‘ ;
pasate } e) Were 37 documents missing from Lee Harvey Oswald's f

: : . }

201 file?

In the course of reviewing Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file,

the Committe

vered an unsigned memorandum to the Chief

of Counterintelligence, Research and Analysis, dated

rnc,

}. 20 February 1964, which stated that 37 documents were missing

em

from Oswald's 201 file. According to the memorandum, this

we statement was based upon a comparison of a machine listing

of documents officially recorded as being in the 201 file and [

those documents actually physically available in the file.

werner,

While the memorandum mentioned that such a machine listing was

: attached, no such attachment was found. in the 201 file at
idee

sy ec
: the time of the Committee's review. |The memorandum itself io
i a ~ ¢
if
y

\\ pears the classification "SECRET EYES ONLY," and is one of the

\

oy

Classification:



Nittenees «

Freedom of Information review...

O Classification:

t
(This. form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) -

II
Pu AP that had been fully withheld from release-under the

\ - . - /

\

\

esponse-to-a-Committee “inquiry; "the
that Oswald's file was so active during eka ceaeee of
the Warrén Commission investigation, ‘up-to-date machine listings
were eae periodically. On this basis, the Agency stated
that "it must be assumed that whoever was responsible for
maintaining the Oswald file brought this file up-to-date by
locating the 37 documents and placing them in the file."

Because this’ response was incomplete, the author of
this memorandum was deposed. He testified that once a
document had been Sere a 201 file by the Agency's
computer system, physical pisconcee of the document in the
file was not always necessary. On this basis, he explained

that the items listed in the memorandum were not missing but

Classification:

S32 | Classified’ by derivation: —

eS <P LI LF LF LF LF SF BF

rte, erro, serene, wore, wm

srr.


Nee

peoreeseeeete

[ashtray

C} Classification:

O

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) *

rather had either been routinely placed in a separate file
because of their sensitivity or were being held by other
individuals who needed them for analytical purposes. He
further stated that in the course of his custodianship of
Oswald's file, he had requested perhaps as many as_ 100
computer listings on the contents of ‘ail Oswald file: While
there had been many instances in which one or more documents
had been. charged out to someone, he stated that he had never
discovered that any documents poet tet gt missing.

According to his testimony, the 37 documents, in fact, were

available, but simply were not located in the file at that time.

f) Was there any evidence that the CIA had for some

reason maintained a dual filing system regarding

Lee Harvey Oswald?

Although the Committee was aware from its outset of

the possibility that a dual filing system -- using one
Classification: 2

ees : Classified by derivation:

wee

Sener

wren

sere,

sore


O Classifications ———______ OQ

4 rs
(This form is to be Med tor tadseraaltauanalaag i
from ClA—controlled documents.) ¥
1
7? : : f
ostensibly innocuous file and one which contained the actual Pp
1

Operational detail indicative of an Agency relationship with 7

the CIA -- could be utilized to disguise the existence of an
é

actual relationship between an individual and the CIA, this

Soro,

1
i 4S : oipgawaréness heightened into.a concern’ with the discovery of
| certain files which indicated that at least two Agency

officers had contemplated the use of fake files and forged

* @ocuments to protect the purpose of the 2R Rifle project.
es from being disclosed. The ZR Rifle project was an executive
J action (i.e., assassination) program which bore no relation to

the Oswald case. Richard Helms testified that the assassinations

eee
sere,

aspect of this project was never implemented and, in fact,

was discontinued as soon as it was brought to his attention, _/

-
TT

but the implications of this discovery in terms of the

Ste
seer,

(Perens for a faked Oswald file were troubling.

\

ae Classification:

wre,

% ie | Classified by derivation:



lassification:

?
i
i

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

In the Oswald case, there were two items which received
J scrutiny because they were potentially indicative of a dual i
1 filing system. The first involved a’ photograph of -him that
had been taken in Minsk in 1961 and the second concerned a |
“E copy..0f' a.-lettex: that- had» been: written’ to him by his mother |
4 during his stay in the Soviet Union. At the time of
President Kennedy's assassination, both of these items were in 5
ea! the CIA's possession but neither was in Oswald's 201 file. [
{ a The photograph of Oswald taken in Minsk shows him
3
posing with several other people. . According to the CIA, the
| picture was found after the-assassination as a result of
1 a search of the Agency's graphics files for materials potentially
far : Sele
relevant to Oswald's stay in the Soviet Union. _/ The

Agency advised that this photograph, as well as several

others not related to Oswald, were routinely obtained in

Classification:

3J | Classified by derivation:
SE ae LT Pasi oes LETT Psa AT TR


on

C  Classificétion: ©

(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled docunienits.)

1962 from some tourists by the CIA's Domestic Contacts
Division, a component that frequently sought information on
a nonclandestine basis from Americans traveling abroad in
Communist countries.

Committee interviews with the tourists’ in question
confirmed that the photograph, along with 159 other
photographic slides, had. been made routinely available to the
Agency's Domestic Contacts Division. Neither tourist had
heard of Lee Harvey Oswald prior to the assassination or even
knew which photographs had been of interest to the Agency.

CIA records. indicate_that only five of the 160 slides
initially made available were retained. pr Committee
interviews with the two CIA employees who had handled the
slides for the Domestic Contacts Division established that

Oswald had not been identified at the time that. these

Classification:

326 3 S ' Classified by derivation:

OF EF LF PF GF SF SF SF

seinen

f
i
;



Newiicin Nee

ia cieetasect

i

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—conirolled documents.)

photographic materials had been made available. _/ One
of these employeés stated that the Oswald pice had bend
retained because it depicted a Soviet intourist guide; the
other employee indicated that the picture had been kept
because it showed.a crane .in. the background.._/ The
employee who worked at CIA headquarters confirmed that the
photograph of Oswald had not been discovered until a post-
assassination search of the Minsk graphics file for materials
pertaining to Oswald.
Accordingly, this photograph is not evidence that the
CIA maintained a dual filing system with respect to Oswald.
The picture apparently was a ina separate file only until
1 1964 when Oswald was actually identified to be one of its

subjects. .

: The Committee's investigation of a letter concerning

Classification:

S ? .! Classified by derivation:

WIT,

Sry



i
4

Materials generated as a result of mail intercepts were stored

O Classification: +. ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted H
from -ClA—controlled documents.) i

Oswald that was in the Agency's possession similarly did not
result in any evidence of a dual filing system.” This letter, H
dated July 6, 1961, had been sent to Marguerite Oswald to her

son, but was intercepted as a result of a CIA mail intercept

program. f This program, known as HT-Lingual, attempted

to intercept letters being sent hetween the United States and
Russia in an effort to obtain both positive intelligence and i

counterintelligence information, / Typically, intercepted

letters. and/or their envelopes would be Photographed and then

returned to the mails. |

In response to a Committee inquiry, the CIA explained

that because of the project's extreme sensitivity, all

in a separate projedrs.file which was maintained by the

counterintelligence staff. . / Consequently, such items were
Classification: af
+ 1. Classified by derivation:


0

(This form is to be used for material extracfed
from CIA}controlled documents.)

© Classification:

penser

weer

not placed in 201 files. This ‘explanation was confirmed by

the testimony of. a senior officer from the counterintelligence

semeves. +

staff who had jurisdiction over the. HT-Lingual project files.* /

g) Was there any evidence that Lee Harvey Oswald had

Nee

ever participated in a CIA counterintelligence

staff project?

to Oswald** resulted in the discovery of reproductions of four

g Sspeeebtey

index cards, two pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald and two

! i:
The Committee's review of HT-Lingual files pertaining. {

*Since Oswald was the subject.in approximately 50 communications
during his stay in the Soviet Union, the Committee also
questioned why the Agency~ostensibly had just one letter
in its possession directly related to Lee Harvey Oswald.

In essence, this may be explained by the fact that HT-Lingual
only operated four days a week and even then only ona
sampling basis. _/ i

sere

**Although the Agency had only one letter in its possession
i directly related to Oswald, after the assassination the
i HT-Lingual files were combed for additional materials potentially,
. related to him. Approximately 50 pieces of correspondence were f
discovered. None of these were ultimately judged to be of any $
significance. These materials, however, were stored ina
separate Oswald HT-Lingual: file.

eee eae ie Classification: ie) x
F | Classified by derivation:

é
£
5

vo

a a


Re ee

a

(This form is to be used for material extracted ~
from ClA—<controlled documents.)

Classification:

pertaining to Marina Oswald, which were dated after-the

assassination of President Kennedy. The pages containing the

reproductions of these cards are stamped "Secret Eyes Only."
The first card regarding Lee Harvey Oswald is dated awe

9 November 1959 and states that Oswald is a recent defector i

the USSR and a former Marine. It also bears the notation
“"CI/Project/RE" and some handwritten notations. he eee ona
card on Oswald places him in Minsk, USSR. It contains
background information on him and states that he "reportedly

expresses a desire for return to the U.S. under certain

conditions." This card is dated 7 August 1961 and also bears -.—==

the notation "WATCH LIST."

These cards, particularly the =
reference to "CI/Project/RE," raised the question of whether cre

A z ae
Lee Harvey Oswald was, in fact, involved in some sort of CI ==

project. °

isihcesunneestinge The Committee..guestioned former employees of the~CIA-whi

Classification:
Ges 3F Classified by derivation: . -



Seen core oe

Classification:
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
may have had some knowledge pertaining to the HT-Lingual
program in general and these cards in particular. Some of
these employees recognized the cards as relating to the
HT-Lingual project, but were unable to identify the meaning
ofthe notation, "CI/Project/RE." :

However, one person testified that the "CI Project"
was “simply a name of convenience which was used to describe
the HT-Lingual project"; another person testified that
"CI Project" was the name of the component which ran the
HT-Lingual project. The latter explained that "RE" represented

’

the initials of a person wha_had been a translator of foreign
language documents and that the initials had probably been
Placed there so that someone could pane back to the translator
if a question arose eoneerkine one of the documents. /
Another Br eee testified that the "Watch-List" notation on

Classification: _

a ) ! Classified by derivation:

cue, ser eman,

errm, mm, Serre, serene en,

ee,

weno sere,

Bs Rass ORT, sey Ba A ET, AEE


|

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

may have had some knowledge pertaining to the HT-Lingual

program in general and these cards in eerste, Some of

these employees recognized the cards as relating to the

HT-Lingual project, but were unable to identify the meaning

of- the notation, "CI/Project/RE." ‘ |
However, one person testified that the "CI Project"

was "simply a name of convenience which was used to describe.

the HT-Lingual project"; another person testified that

"CI Project" was the name of the component which ran the

HT-Lingual Project. The latter explained that "RE" represented

if :
the initials of a person who..had been a translator of foreign

language documents and that the initials had probably been

Placed there so that someone coulda come back to the translator

if a question arose concerning one of the documents.,_/
Another employee testified that the "Watch-List" notation on,

~ Classification:

a 1) ! Classified by derivation:

Nerrm, me, Serre,

Ter,

Serco, ore,

sername

Sone

PROT sey eee gee eee


vere come acer are nee acne

a O

|

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CiA—controlled documents.)

the second card referred to a list of persons who had

t 2 :

i ee : :

2 been identified as being of particular interest in the Agency f

i

4 with respect to the mail intercept program.

5 ‘
The Committee requested the CIA to provide an |

4

} explanation for the.terms "CI/Project/RE," and. "Watch List," |

4 and for the significance of the handwritten notations appearing

on the index cards. In addition, the Committee requested a

description of criteria utilized in compiling a "watch list." |

: In regard to the meaning of the notation "CI/Project/RE,"

the CIA explained that there existed an office within the
.Counterintelligence staff that was known as ."CI/Project," a
cover title that had been used to hide the true nature of the

office's functions. In fact, this office was responsible for

the exploitation of the material produced by the HT-Lingual
project. The response further explains that "RE" represents

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

ia crater

SP



fear Porn rd ay eee cama —

Classification:

(This form is to be used: for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

the initials of a former employee who is presently retixea Junder,

a ies . a
\ cover . f :
] In responding to a request for the eriteria used in

compiling a “Watch List," the CIA referred to-a section of

ee

~ the Report to- the President: by the Commission on CIA Activities

within-the United States, which states;

Individuals or organizations of particular intelligence
j interest (one should also add counterintelligence
H interest) were specified in Watch Lists provided
a } to the mail project by the Counterintelligence Staff,
we by other CIA components, and by the FBI. The. total
number of names on the Watch List varied, from time

4 to time, but on the average, the list included
approximately 300 names, including about 100 furnished
j by the FBI. The Watch List included the names of

‘foreigners and of United States citizens.

] Thus, the full meaning of the notation is that on

9 November 1959, RE placed Oswald's name on the “Watch List"

‘ for the HT-Lingual project for the reason stated on the card --
H that Oswald was a recent defector to the USSR and a former

Marine.

Classification: ral at
ae z Classified by derivation:

AEE.

MED - | EE.


Nees co

Classification:

\

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—=<controlled documents.)

The response goes on to state that the handwritten
number, #7-305, which also appears on the first card, isa
reference to the re from the CI Staff to the Office
of Security expressing the former's interest in seeing any
mail to or from Oswald in the Soviet Union. Finally, the
other handwritten notation, "N/R-RI, 20 Nov. 59," signifies
that a name trace run through the central records register
indicates that there was no record for Lee Oswald as per
that date.

The Agency's explanation of the meaning of the second

card is that on 7 August 196,

Mrs. Egerter ‘requested that
Oswald's name be placed on thé atch List" because of

Oswald's expressed desire to return to the U.S. as stated on

the'card. The handwritten notation indicates, in this instance,

ween

serra,

on serotcie, server, seer,

|

that Oswald's name was deleted from'the "Watch List" on 28 May 1962.

Classification:

tY i | Classified by derivation:

_ LE ATF SEY ET ET | LES


(a

: ~ Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted i
from ClA—controlled documents.) ij

In reference to the two cards on Marina Oswald, the

° 3 Agency stated that her name was first placed on the "Watch

| List" on 26 November 1963 because she was the wife of Lee

Harvey Oswald. . The second card served the purpose of adding

the name Marina Oswald Porter to the “Watch List" on |
r 29 June 1965 after she remarried. Both names were deleted
|

from the list as of 26 May 1972.

{ Thus, the statements of former CIA employees were

corroborated by the Agency's response regarding the explanation

i
j

{
of the index cardsin the CIA's HT-Lingual files pertaining to j

Oswald. The explanations attested to the fact that the |

references on the cards Were not demonstrative of an Agency

relationship with Oswald, but instead were examples of notations

-

routinely utilized in connection with the HT-Lingual project.:

Classification:.

4
4 i Clossified by derivation:

tue SE ae. SEF AT a, ll el



O

Classification: ei

ij
(This form is to be used for material extracted ‘
from ClA—controlled documents.) 7
‘
| -_
Z i
y

4. Did the CIA ever debrief Lee Harvey Oswald?

Net

The CIA has denied ever having bad any contact with

Lee Harvey Oswald, and its records are consistent with this

Neale

position. Because the Agency has a Domestic’ Contacts Division

Nee

which routinely attempts to solicit information on a

nonclandestine basis from Americans traveling abroad, the

|

absence of any record indicating that Lee Harvey Oswald, a
returning defector who had worked ina Minsk radio factory,

had not been debriefed has been considered by Warren Commission

eritics to be either inherently noncredible (i.e., the

‘ record ‘has been destroyed) ‘or indicative that Oswald had been

j contacted through other than routine Domestic Contact Division

channels.
After reviewing the Agency's records pertaining to this “ f

issue, the Committee's initial point of inquiry was to interview ©

Classification:

reer, |

Vb
DF LF LF. ay.

Classified by derivation:



Sas ST AY YY Ry a
Cy
\

a
3
i

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

i
H
the former chief of an Agency component . responsible for research

{ 2

” related to clandestine operations within the Soviet Union who

sere,

warns.

had written a November 25, 1963 memorandum which indicated that,

upon Oswald's return from’ the Soviet Union,*' this officer

tee

had considered "the laying of interviews /on him/ through

peas
orem commen, sereeten,

{ _  £€he Domestic Contacts Divison7 or other suitable channels."

sree,

This individual indicated that Oswald was considered suspect

@ j because the Soviets had appeared to have been very solicitous. {

of him. For this reason, a nonclandestine contact, either by

the Domestic Contacts Division or other “suitable channels”

orm

such as. the FBI or the Immigration and Naturalization Service, {

é }

pected

¥ *The memorandum indicates that the possibility of an Oswald
contact was discussed during the summer of 1960, but the author -.
indicated that the conversation actually took place during’

1 i the summer of 1962, shortly before his transfer toa new

! assignment. During the summer.of 1960, the author was not

H on an active assignment.

Classification:



J

Ci

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extrocted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

was considered. The eesiter tied: however, that to“his
knowledge, no contact with Oswald was ever made; moreover, if
a debriefing had occurred; the officer stated that he would
have been informed. Finally, ‘he stated that Oswald was
considered a potential lead, but only of marginal importance,"

and therefore the absence of a debriefing was not at all

> unusual.

The Committee interviewed five other Agency employees
who were in a position to have discussed Oswald in 1962 with
the author of this memorandum, including the person who
replaced the author of the iWemorandum as chief of the research

section, but none of them could recall any such conversation.



Classification:

{This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

to result in any evidence suggesting that Oswald had been

contacted’ at any time by the CIA.

| The author of the November 25, 1963 memorandum also
informed the Committee that the CIA maintained a large a !

| 2

4 volume of information on the Minsk radio factory in which

{ Oswald worked. This information was stored in the Office of

Research and Reporting. _/ Another former CIA employee, who }

had worked in the Foreign Documents Division in the Soviet j

branch of the Directorate of Intelligence in 1962, advised the

Committee that he specifically recalled collecting intelligence

j xegarding the Minsk Radio Plant. In fact, this individual {

claims that during the summer of 1962 he .reviewed a. contact

ea ch4q

ac=S onan, H
. report from representatives of [the CIA's New York Jeield office - |

who had interviewed a. former Marine who had worked at the Minsk

Radio Plant following his defection to the USSR. This defector,

— Classification: wk :

SE LF LE PF:


Nese

Neate

Ne

ote Nee

Seen

{ 3

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

whom the employee believes may have been Oswald, had..been
living with his family in Minsk.
The employee advised the Committee that the contact

report was filed in a volume concerning the Minsk Radio Plant

which should be retrievable from the Industrial Registry Branch,

then a component of the Office of Central Reference. Accordingly,

the Committee requested that the CIA provide both the above-
described contact report and the volume of materials
concerning the Minsk Radio Plant. A review by the Committee
of the documents in the volumes on the Minsk Radio Plant,
however, revealed that no such contact report. existed in
that file.

The CIA has stated to the committee that between 1958
and 1963 it had no procedure for the systematic debriefing of
overseas travelers, including returning defectors. Instead,

Classification:

ON


O Classification: 8)

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

the Agency relied upon the ae to make such contacts and
report any significant results.

To investigate this question further, the Committee
reviewed the files of 22 individuals (selected from an original
list of 380 possible Soviet defectors) who were born in America
and appeared to have returned to the United States between
1958 and 1963.* Of these 22 individuals, only four were
interviewed at any time by the CIA. reals four instances
tended to involve particular intelligence or counterintelligence
needs, but this was not always the case.

Based upon this file-review, it appears that, in fact,

the CIA did not contact returning defectors in 1962 as a matter

ee

*An effort was also made to review only the files of American-
born individuals who had defected during these years. Not
all of the 22 individuals, however, met this criteria.

Classification:

J) | Classified by derivation:

SLI I EF



“Naito Nace *

enna

Nessa

Oswald for his offer to divulge this kind of information::

Classification: ©

(This form.is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

of standard operating procedure. For this. redson, the

absence of any Agency contact with Oswald upon his return from
the Soviet Union cannot be considered in any way Baleares
particularly since the FBI did fulfill its adi saa ee tty

obligation to conduct such interviews.

5. The Justice Department's Failure to Prosecute Lee Harvey

Oswald for Offering to Give Intelligence Information to

the Soviet Union
When Lee Harvey Oswald appeared at the United Ae
Embassy in Moscow on October 31, 1959 for the purpose of
renouncing his American citizenship, he allegedly offered to
give the Soviets information age he had acquired as a

Marine Corps radar operator. . / ‘The Committee sought

to determine why the Justice Department did not prosecute.

Classification:



vcmevmsr Ae ayy yee

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

A review of Oswald's “correspondence with the American ‘
| os :

embassy in Moscow indicates that on February 13, 1961 the

embassy received a letter from him in which he expressed a

“desire to return to the-United States if..isome agreement

i feould be reacheé/ concerning the dropping of any legal
proceedings against /him7." __/ On February 28, 1961, the
embassy sought guidance from the State Department concerning

Oswald's potential liability to . criminal prosecution. /

The State Department, however, responded on April 13, 1961 that

{
2

it was "not in a position to advise Mr. Oswald petiee upon his
desired return to the United States he may be amenable to f
prosecution for any possible offenses committed in violation
of the laws of the unitea — ey

On May 10, 1961, Oswald wrote the embassy Sonnaine a

"full guarantee" against ‘the possibility of prosecution. a

Classification:



Nee tatine

Te

CS

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extrocted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

He visited with embassy consul Richard Snyder on July 16,
1961, and denied that he had ever given any. information to
the Soviets. _/ Snyder advised Oswald on an informal basis
that, while no assurances could be given, the embassy did not
perceive any basis for prosecuting Oswald for an offense
involving any severe. punishment. nné

There is no record that the State Department ever

gave Oswald any assurances that he would not be prosecuted...

‘Upon his return to the United States, Oswald was interviewed

twice by the FBI. On each occasion, he denied ever giving
any information to the Soviet Union. _/
In a response to a Committee request, the Department of

Justice indicated that prosecution of Oswald was never

considered because his file contains no evidence that he had

ever revealed or offered to reveal national defense information

Classification:



Se
ae Classification: ss CU OS

(This form is to be used’ for material extracted i
from ClA—controlled documents.) i

i oO

i
}
f
j
| : to the Soviet Union. / In a subsequent response ,- the i
'
i
t
b

j Department acknowledged the existence of some evidence that

Oswald had offered information to the Soviet Union, but

"Newt s

stated that there were, nevertheless, serious obstacles to a

i. possible prosecution:

It (Department file) does contain a copy of
| an FBI memorandum, dated July 3, 1961, which
! is recorded as having been received in the

Justice Department's Internal Security
Division on December 10, 1963, which states
7 that the files of the Office of Naval
Intelligence contained a copy of a Department . :
of State telegram, dated October 31, 1959,
at Moscow. The telegram, which is summarized :
in the FBI report, quoted.Oswald as having
{ offered the Soviets any information he had
i + acquired as a radar operator. The FBI report —
7 did not indicate that the information to
which Oswald had access as a radar operator
was classified.

i
{

Oswald returned to the United States on
June 13, 1962. He was interviewed by the
3 FBI on June 26, 1962, at Fort Worth, ee
3 Texas, at which time he denied furnishing os
i any information to the Soviets concerning :
es his Marine Corps experiences. He stated :
| ‘ that he never gave the Soviets any information oo
!

H

f

|

H

{

which would be used to the detriment of the
“United States.

In sum, therefore, the only “evidence" | aa
that Oswald ever offered to furnish

information to the Soviets is his own

reported statement to an official at the

Classification:

UY > Classitied by derivation: ©

<P LF LF LI LF MI MF TLS



peri oa

Lay SEY I EE

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

U.S. embassy in Moscow. “That statement,

.of course, was contradicted by his denial
to the FBI, upon his return to the United
States, that he had ever made such an offer.

In the prosecution of a criminal case, the
Government cannot establish a prima facie
case solely on a defendant's unsupported
confession. The Government must introduce
substantial independent. evidence which would
tend to establish the trustworthiness of the
defendant's statement. See, Opper v.

United States, 348 U.S..84 (1954).

Accordingly, in the absence of any information

that Oswald had offered to reveal classified information
to the Soviets, and lacking corroboration of his
statement that he had proferred information of any

kind to the Russians, we did not consider his
prosecution for violation of the espionage statutes,

18 U.S.C. §§ 793, 793. _/

Based upon this analysis, there is no evidence that
Oswald received favorable treatment from either the State
Department or the Justice Department regarding the possibility

of a criminal prosecution.

6. - Oswald's Contacts with Americans in ‘the Soviet Union. .

a) Priscilla Johnson McMillan 7

Priscilla Johnson McMillan, author of Marina and Lee,

became a subject of the Committee's inquiry because she was

Classification:
- Sb

|, Clossified by. deriv

|

were

Sern,


Neen

Neate

O Classification: &

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

one of two American correspondents who had. obtained an interview
a
with Lee Harvey Oswald during his stay in Moscow.in 1959. The
Committee sought to investigate the allegation that Ms. McMillan's
interview with Oswald had been arranged by the CIA.
John McVickar, a eho at the. American embassy,
testified that he had oswala's wage with Ms. McMillan, and
that he thought “she might help us-in communicating with him
and help him in dealing with what appeared to be a very strong
personal problem if she were able to talk with him.” a,
McVickar stated, however, that he had never worked in any
capacity for the CIA, nor aia he believe that Ms. McMillan
had any such affiliation. The Committee's review of Mr.
+

McVickar's State Department and CIA files confirmed that he had

never been associated with the CIA.


Neen peeeecente Seana

on

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

According to Ms. McMillan's testimony about the events

surrounding her interview with Lee Harvey Oswald, in November

1959 she had just returned from a visit to the United States

where she covered the Camp David summit between President

Eisenhower and Premier Khrushchev. On November 16, 1959, she
went to the American embassy to pick up her mail for the first
time since her return to the Soviet Union. The mail pickup
facility was in a foyer near the consular office. Consular
Officer John A. McVickar came out of this office and welcomed
McMillan back to the Soviet Union. They exchanged a few
words, and as she was leaving, McVickar commented that at
her hotel was an American who was trying to defect to the
Soviet Union. McVickar stated that the American would not

speak to "any of us," but might speak to McMillan because she

was a woman. She recalls that as she was leaving, McVickar

Classification:

ia c i Classified by derivation:

ees,

sere

ree,

semen, Soa serene

os


oF

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

told her to remember that shé was an American.

McMillan a to her hotel, found out the
American's room number, knocked on his door, and asked him
for an interview. The American, Lee Harvey Oswald, did not
ask her into the room, but he did agree to talk to her in her

room later that night. No American government official

arranged the actual interview with Oswald. She met with Oswald

just once. She believes that McVickar called her on November 17,

the day after her interview with Oswald, aay asked her to supper.
That evening at supper they discussed her interview with Oswald.
McVickar indicated a general concern about Oswald and felt that
“the attitude of another American.consular official might have
pushed Oswald further in the direction of defection. McVickar
indicated a personal feeling that it would be a sad thing for

‘Oswald to defect in view. of his age, but he did not indicate.

Classification:

sD . ee reer meee



CH ©

Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

that this was, the U.S. Goverriment's position. (p.18).

we,

Ms. Millan also testified that. she had never worked - for

] the CIA, nor _ she connected with any other federal government
‘agency at the time of her-interview with Lee Harvey Oswald.

) According to an affidavit that Ms. McMillan filed with the

{ i Committee, her only employment with the federal government was

asa 30-day temporary translator for the Joint Press Reading \
;

Service,
\

nm organization that was operated by the Ameridan

British, and Canadian embassies in Moscow.
———

OO
Finally, Ms. McMillan téStified that because of ‘her

background in Russian studies, she applied for a position with
: ‘i oe

the CIA in 1952 as an intelligence analyst. The application

= A

_ was withdrawn, \but the CIA completed its security check on )
j : : Hate curt tee eee ee
i

las denied her a security clearance. ( She acknowledged

being debriefed by an Agency employee in 1962 after returning

Classification:

wren,

een,

ee Nom, Se

WORDEN,


i
i

i
i
1

soy ea aay samy nubir oe eed

0

Classification: joerc tian

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

from her thrid trip Sole Soviet Union, but explained that this
contact was in a way related to the confiscation of her
notes by Soviet officials.*

The Committee's review of CIA files pertaining

to Ms. McMillan corroborated her testimony. .There was-no

indication in the file suggesting that she had ever worked for

*In November 1962, I had a conversatio ith a man who
entified himself as a C.I.A. employes ‘and™ gave his’ name “as
Ceither Donald Jameson or James MacDonald. “agreed to~see him
in. part because the-confiscation~ of-my papers and notes had
utterly altered my situation -- I now had no hope of returning
to the U.S.S.R. and was free for the first time to write what
I knew. I was preparing a series of articles for The Reporter.

which would contain the same information about whic! =
Garliesdy had expressed a desire to talk to me. Finally7 during
e Aatter part of my 1962 trip to the U.S.S.R., I had been

under heavy surveillance and the K.G.B. knéw what Soviet citi-

zens I had seen. Many of those I had talked to for the Reporter
articles were Russian "liberals" (anti-Stalin and pro-Khrushchev) :'

What reprisals might befall those whom I had interviewed I

did not know, but since my notes were now part of the K.G.B.
files, I felt that it might help them if the C.I.A. knew. that
which the K.G.B. already knew. My meeting with ~ Jameson

which occurred at the Brattle Inn, Cambridge, was a reversal of

my usual effort to avoid contact with the C.I.A., and the
subject matter was confined to my impressions of the Soviet -
literary ‘and cultural climate.

Classification:

6D {Classified by derivation:

serene.

Seweam

orien


wie, praesent ‘Neem es

“Cl Classification: sl OO

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

the CIA. In fact, there was:some evidence suggesting that the

Agency was reluctant even to debrief her after her trips to

the Soviet Union. An interview with’ the former Agency official
yy

ret gous’ sto @ ac perkang Cee pty BPE eh ve ee fn

who had been eputy aime and nee -chief of the American Ve — )
tp Maoh) :

(Gervelereprogenn desing the years 1958 to 1961 confirmed that
aoe :

Ms. McMillan had not been used by the CIA inthat—pregzam.
There was information in Ms. McMillan's file indicating
that on occasion during the years 1962-65 she had provided
cultural and literary type information to the CIA. None of
this information, however, was suggestive in ny way of a
clandestine relationship.- Accordingly, there is no evidence
that Ms. McMillan ever worked for the CIA or received the

Agency's assistance in obtaining an interview with Lee Harvey .-!

Classification: —o___ :

Y SY LI SF

ponte

error. server,

secre,

Serpe

ese,

serneren,

errno,

C


ae a ae Asc eer eer ee

Classification:

7 (This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Oswald.* a

a

b) Richard E. Snyder

neers

Richard E. Snyder was the consular official in the United

onrery

States Moscow embassy who handled the Oswald case. It was

Neste

Snyder with whom Oswald met in 1959. when Oswald sought to renounce
| his American citizenship. Two years later, when Oswald

initiated his inquiries. about returning to the United States,
Snyder again became involved in the case. Warren commission

| critics have alleged eat Snyder was associated in some way

with the CIA during his service in the Moscow embassy.

q In his Committee depositon, Richard Snyder acknowledged

that for an eleven-month period during 1949-50 he worked for

; *Nor is there any basis, based upon Ms. McMillan's testimony,
CIA files, and an affidavit provided by McMillan's publisher,

J Harper and Row, to support the allegation that the CIA
financed the book Marina and Lee.

Classification:

6 3 |. Classified by deriyati



Nee ete

- RW aed a a Sueur

Pe

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

the CIA while he was on the waiting list for a foreign service
a

appointment with the State Department. Snyder testified,
however, that, since resigning from the CIA in March of 1950,
he has had no contact with the CIA other than a letter
written in 1970 or 1971 inquiring about employment on a
contractual basis.*

The Committee reviewed Snyder's files at the State
pocaxtnees Defense Department, and the CIA. Both the
State Department and Defense Department are consistent with
his testimony. Snyder's CIA file revealed that at one time

prior to 1974 it had been red flagged. and maintained on a

segregated basis. The file contained a routing indicator

i which stated that. the file had been red flagged because of a

*Snyder also denied contact with any other intelligence
service while active as a foreign service officer.

Classification:

! Classified by derivation:

sea,

worn,


C

Classification:

(This form is to [, used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Newbee

serrecmenn,

"DCI statement and a matter of cover" concerning Snyder.

In response to a Committee inquiry, the CIA indicated H

that the DCI statement presumably refers to comments which

Nees Rarer
sire

former DCI Richard Helms had made in 1964 concerning the

Oswald case when Helms had been Deputy Director for Plans.*

seonern,

The CIA also stated that Snyder's file had been flagged at the

pe

request of DDO/CI to ensure that all inquiries concerning

rene

Snyder would be referred to that office. The Agency was’ unable

2

j to explain the reference to "cover" because according to its

records Snyder had never been assigned any cover while employed.

seer

Further, the Agency stated that "/t7here is ‘no record in Mr.

tiara

Snyder's Official Personnel File that he ever worked, directly
ee

*Responding to a newspaper allegation that Oswald had met with CIA
representatives in Moscow, Richard Helms wrote a memorandum to
the Warren Commission on March 18, 1964 in which he Stated the
"desire to state for the record that the allegation carried in
this press‘ report is utterly unfounded as far as the CIA
is concerned." :

Classification: _ 4
: ot |. Clossified by derivation:

Sere.

sors,

were



0

© Classification:

fh
(This form is to. be used for laterial extracted
from ClA—controlled flocuments.) i

i a te

or indirectly, in any. capacity for the CIA after his |
j resignation on 26 September 1950." ‘ ee

The Committee does not regard this explanation as

satisfactory, especially since Snyder's 201. file indicates that

for approximately one year during 1956-1957 he was used by an

: Agency case officer as a spotter lat’ Harvard Univ ity Jbecause

pedsorS : {

: cas . .
of his access to obkessis ents who might be going to the

‘ Soviet Union, nor was the Agency actually able to explain

specifically why someone considered it necessary to red
flag the Snyder file.
The remainder of the Snyder file, however, is entirely
consistent with his eee before the Committee concerning
\ the absence of Agency contacts. In addition, the CIA

personnel officer who handled Snyder's case in 1950 confirmed

that Snyder had, in fact, terminated his employment with the

: : —{\
Classification: G f

Classified by derivation:

i



ve-seananomnmnanstti

}

}
4
i

EP ka EE SERRE

©

Classification:

\
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

REM,

CIA at that time. Moreover, he added that Snyder did—not~gos

afoo68 boy ale i loseg

to the State Department under-any—kind-of-cover—arrany t. _/

This -position was confirmed by a former State Department
official who was aware of ‘procedures for State. Department
Wart hige we WM

7 x CIA employees. In addition, this individual stated

that at no time from 1959 to 1963 did the CIA use. the State

intelligence officers.

(Insertion to follow -- Analysis)
c) Dr. Alexis H. Davison
\ Dr. Alexis H. Davison was the U.S. Embassy physician in

Moscow from May 1961 to May 1963. In May 1963 he was expelled

ee enw!

Department's overseas consular positions as cover for CIA (
f

Af

é

. case. CAfter the ass sination of President Kennedy, it was
Ciassification:

SS 6
: 6 Classified by derivation:

7 ER AEE er ar awe

Tr SES



ep ©

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

xn.

discovered that the name of Dr, Dayisen's mother, Mrs. Hal

: oa :

Davison, and her Atlanta address were in.Oswald's address book
under the heading "mothex of U.S. Embassy doctor." In

addition, it was also determined that the flight which

Oswald, his wife and child took from New York to Dallas on

swroma, sree, Ser ome,

June 14, 1962 had stopped in.Atlanta.

Seren,

For this reason, it has been alleged that Dr. Davison
was Oswald's intelligence contact.in Moscow. : fie
In a Committee interview, Dr. Alexis Davison stated that

he had been a physician in the U.S. Air Force and was stationed

ere

in Moscow as the U.S. Embassy physician from May 1961 to
May 1963. In this capacity, it was his duty to perform

physical examinations on all Soviet immigrants to the United

Seon,

States. He recalls that most of these immigrants were elderly,

serene,

but he remembers two young women, one who was a mathematics

Classification:

Sern,

6 ft | Classified by decivation:
ed SES 8 BB ER eo



C Classification: O

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

teacher from the south of Russia and one who was married to

. _ : : :
an American. The latter was very frightened by the prospect
of going to the United States. She stated that she was going
to Texas with her husband. Davison said that if she and her
husband traveled through Atlanta on their way to Texas, his
mother, a native-born Russian, would be happy to see her. He
gave his mother's name and address in Atlanta to the woman's

husband, who was "scruffy looking." This was not an unusual

-thing to do, since his family had always been very hospitable

to Russians who visited Atlanta. In retrospect, he assumes

that he gave his mother's name and address to either Lee

ex Marina Oswald, but he is uncertain in this regard. _ /
After the assassination.of President Kennedy, Davison

was interviewed first by a Secret Service agent and later by

an FBI agent in connection with the entry of his mother's

Classification:

6 Hi | Classified by. detivotion:

EY LI MP, LP LF. 5 ae

serra, Sacatad

ir

Sree



Neen ce

Ci Classification;

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

name and address in Oswald's,address book. The FBI agent
: ae ‘ :

also interviewed Davison's mother, Mrs. Hal: (Natalia

Alekseevna) Davison. Davison indicated that the Secret

Service and the FBI were the only government agencies to

interview him about his contact with the Oswalds. _ /

ret

“Davison admitted his involvement in the Penkovsky spy

case. Specifically, he stated that.in connection with his

=

—

assignment as U.S. Embassy physician in Moscow, he had received |

some superficial intelligence training. This training mainly

involved lectures on Soviet life and instructions on remembering |

i
{

and reporting Soviet names and military activities. During his fr

tour of duty in Moscow, Davison was asked by an Embassy
employee, whose name he’no longer eee to observe a
certain lamp post on his daily route between his apartment
and the ee fav atletatt be alert for a signal by telephone;

Classification:

A


approximately one year. H

© Classification: ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Davison agreed. 2
(accoraing to his instructions, if he ever s. a black
chalk mark\on the lamp post or if he ever received a

telephone call sin which the caller blew ing the receiver
is

three times, he was to notify a person whose name he no
va

longer renenbers| fe was told nothing else about this

f

vA

operation. Davison performed his’ role in this operation for

N

\ Participated in no other operations

va

/ \
during his tour of duty in Moscow, but he dia perform some

desk work for the Air’ Attache. Oh just one occasion, toward

/

the end of this year, he observed a on the lamp post

and his wife received the telephone signal. As instructed,

/

. he reported these happenings. Shortly thekeafter, the. Soviets
; f

reported that they had broken the Penkovsky spying operation,

“The Soviets’ declared Davison persona non grata) just after he

left Moscow because his tour of duty had ended. He does not
Classification:

7] i Classified by derivotion:

DY LE) LEP EE EF LES

seem,

i

;
f
{
5

warm, |


"Neate

ee pone — — moe me eee paseeany

he
CO Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

i 7 —
recall any in oo the_Pénkovsky—————-—.
ise ea “ eee :

Davison denied participating in any other intelligence
activity related work ee ee employment in Moscow, and

provided the Committee with an affidavit to this effect.
7 os :
ae a

4 Pa -
The former deputy,-chief of the CIA's Soviet Russia clandestine

a we . -
activities séction during 1960-62 confirmed.Davison's position,
¢ ‘ is -
and chafacterized his involvement in-the Penkovsky case as a

2 ae Pit Sees ..
"ohe shot" deal. “In addition? a review of Davison's CIA and
- ee va
“ E :
Department,Of Defense files was also entirely consistent with

va

his Committee testimony.
a no basis for concluding that Dr.

Davison was Lee Harvey Oswald's intelligence contact in

Moscow.

2 |

peeeicte
Tication:

i Classified by derivation:

Tee ee

eee

|

rar,

ore

oe


CO ‘.

Classification:

i
|
a

{This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Sor,

SOT.

7. George deMohrenschildt
==

George deMohrenschildt was a prominent member of Dallas'

4
; White Russian" community who befriended Lee Harvey Oswald.
This friendship has engendered considerable speculation
; because of the contrast between the backgrounds of the two men. f
{ DeMohrenschildt was described as sophisticated ‘and well educated,
| ;

one who moved easily in the social and professional circles

Pe | of oilmen and the so-called "White Russian" community, many

worm

{ of.whom were avowed right-wingers. Oswald's "lowly" background

SE,

- did not include much education or influence, and he was, in fact,

shunned by the very same Dallas Russian community which

embraced deMohrenschildt. DeMohrenschildt committed suicide

in 1977 shortly after having been contacted for an interview

by a Committee investigator.

In his Warren Commission testimony, deMohrenschildt

Ciassification:

" z 1 - Classified by derivati

roms omc teated mene emcee cae ice



oO;
Aa a

Ciassification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Pa

stated that he believed he had discussed Leé Harvey Oswald
with J. Walton Moore, whom deMohrenschildt described as "a

Government man -~ either FBI or Central Intelligence." /

Nem, Sk NEM NEPAD,

i DeMohrenschildt said Moore had interviewed him when he
returned from Yugoslavia and that he was known as the head of f

the FBI in Dallas. _/ DeMohrenschildt said that he had

“ asked Moore and Ft. Worth attorney Max Clark about Oswald. to

eS reassure himself that it was "Safe" for the deMohrenschildts y

t to assist Oswald, _._/ and was:told Bione af these persons f
that "the guy seems to be OK." __/ This admitted association

with J. Walton Moore, a known employee of the CIA's f

wi

Domestic ContactsDivision, gave rise/to the question of
whether deMohrenschildt had contacted Lee Harvey Oswald on

behalf of the CIA.

Classification:

i 4 |. Classified by derivation:



Neate

\.

Nee

usiesert

on ©

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

i
S employed by the Central

In 1963 J. Walton Moore

Intelligence Agency in Dallas, Texas in the Domestic

. personnel file,

Feeerrereee
Contacts Division. According t6 Moor

he was assigned to the Domestic Contacts Divison in 1948. In

a fitness report for the period April 1, 1963 through March 31,

ee duties in the Dallas office includea “supervising
\ eee
and managing a resident agency; exploitation of source's
complete intelligence potential by debriefing...; writing
reports; keeps informed on foreign situations and intelligence
requirements in order to better orient and exploit sources; and
searches for and develops new sources."
In an Agency memorandum dated April 13, 1977 contained
scsieasinaiin.

—
in George deMohrenschildt's CIA file,(Moore set forth facts

to counter a claim which had been recently made by WFAA-TV

in Dallas that Lee Harvey Oswald had been employed by the

Classification:

: a j  Clessified by derivation:

Ps Deo al AM Oo Sony emer

MN EM,

a

So,

SEM, sere,

STE, Terre,

SOT

Nir,


acuF AY GR YT LER

O ©

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

worm,

CIA and th ‘ad known Oswald. In that memorandum,

Moore is quoted as saying that according to his records the
last time he had talked with George deMohrenschildt was. in

the fall of 1961. Moore said that he had no’ recollection of

any conversation with deMohrenschildt concerning Lee Harvey.

Se

Oswald. The memorandum also says that Moore recalls only

¢
£
Fs
two occasions when he met deMohrenschildt -- first, in the i]
spring of 1958 to discuss the mutual interest the two :

couples had in mainland China; and then in the fall of 1961

Sere

when the deMohrenschildts showed films of their Latin American

walking trip. te

Other documents in deMohrenschildt's CIA file,

swrerere,

ore

however, indicate more contact between Moore and deMohrenschildt
than was stated in the 1977 memorandum by Moore. Ina memorandum i
dated May 1, 1964 from Moore to the Acting Chief of the Contacts

Classification:

7 G {Classified by derivation:

oer a ee dimen Eee


Ne

oy

© Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ere,

Division of the CIA, Moore stated that he had known George

deMohrenschildt and his wife since 1957, at which time Moore

got biographical data on deMohrenschildt after a trip to

Yugoslavia for the International Cooperation! Administration.
Moore says also in- that 1964 memorandum that he had seen
deMohrenschildt several times in 1958 and 1959. DeMohrenschildt's
CIA file contains several reports submitted by deMohrenschildt
to the CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia, including "Lack
of Interest in Communist Ideology," "National Pride/Feeling
of Superiority over Soviet Satellites," and “Effect of
Decentralization in the Oil Industry."

DeMohrenschildt testified before the Warren Commission
that he had never Been in any respect an intelligence agent. _ /
The Committee interview with Moore and its review of the CIA's

Moore and deMohrenschildt files confirmed that deMohrenschildt

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

LI LN



O Classification: = i)

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

had never been an, American intelligence agent. In this

regard,.it should be stressed that, upon returning rine trips
abroad, of Americans annually provide information
to the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division on a nonclandestine -
basis. Such acts of cooperation should not be confused with
an actual Agency relationship.*
8. William G. Gaudet

William G. Gaudet was a newspaper editor who was issued
the Mexican tourist card immediately preceding Lee Harvey
Oswald's on September 17, 1963. Two days later, he departed
for a three- or four-week trip to Mexico and other Latin

*DeMohrenschildt's file also makes reference to an occasion
where he may have been i lved_in arranging a meeting between
a Haitian bank officer or Department of. Defense
official. A Department of DefenSe official interviewed
by the Committee stated that. the meeting was arranged by
Department of Defense officials and that deMohrenschildt's
presence (in the company of his wife) was unanticipated. The
Committee,does not regard this incident as evidence of any
Agency relationship because there is no indication that any
United States governmental official actually solicited
deMohrenschildt's assistance with regard to this meeting.

Classification: = =) 7)

Le& Classified by derivation,

SST, XAVIER.

ENS,

NVIERD,

Wer ERR NA

a a EN

Bi


ees

Classification:

(This form is to be used for materiol extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

American countries. This happened to coincide with Oswald's
ie _

visit to Mexico City between September 27, 1963 ana
October , 1963. After the assassination, Gaudet advised
the FBI during an interview that he had once been employed
by the CIA. Speculation about Gaudet's possible relationship
with Lee Harvey Oswald was created when it was discovered that
the Warren Commission Report contained a list, provided by
the Mexican Government and purporting to include all Pee
who had been issuéd Mexican tourist cards at the same time as
Oswald, which nevertheless omitted Gaudet's name. Tf

At a Committee deposition, Gaudet testifiea that nis”

contact with the CIA was primarily as a source of information

reflecting information that he had obtained during his trips.

abroad; in addition, Gaudet maintained that he occasionally per- .

formed errands for Agency personnel. Gaudet stated that his

a
Classification: ? é
TP |. Classified by derivation:

wer, NH, ror, UT,

NEITUTN,

a,

é
b



Classification:

TEUEN

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<controlled documents.)

BN

last contact with the CIA was’ in 1969, but that the relationship

had never been formally terminated.
i The Committee reviewed Gaudet's CIA file, but found
neither any record reflecting a contact between him and the

i Agency after 1961 nor any indication that he had “performed

a ies errands" for the CIA.* A memorandum, dated January 23, 1976,

seemed to confirm the absence of.any further contact after .

|

|

{

{

|

t

Hi

H

H

H

4a 7 this time:

i 7 The Domestic Collections Divison (DCD) has an inactive

ee file on William George Gaudet, former editor and

Hee publisher of The Latin American Report. ‘The file shows

1 that Gaudet was a source of the New Orleans DCD

H Resident Office from.1948 to 1955 during which period

} he provided foreign intelligence information on Latin

{ American political and economic conditions resulting

i from his extensive travel in South and.Central america

: in pursuit of journalistic interésts.. The file further
indicates that Gaudet was-a casual contact of the New

| Orleans Office between 1955 and 1961 when, at various

H times, he furnished fragmentary intelligence and tried -

| unsuccessfully to obtain financial loans from the Agency, |

ef

?

i

t

i

:

!

NE Lie WE “RA SETA ETA ‘Sa, aE. SN SA,

*The file dia contain a routing indication, which the Agency
has failed to explain, to the effect that someone "agrees with
the manner in which this case is being handled." _/.

Classification:

é
&



ARF SEF Bay SY ST GY LP LF <a

ei

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

through DCD,. to support his publication. There is
no correspondence in the DCD file on Gaudet after 1961.

Gaudet could not recall whether his trip to Mexico and
other Latin American countries in 1963 involved any intelligence
related activity. He was able to testify, however, that he
did not encounter Lee Harvey Oswald, whom he had previously
seen on occasion at the New Orleans Trade Mart, during that trip.
.Gaudet was unaware that his Mexican tourist card had been
issued immediately before Oswald's and could not recall cere
seen Oswald on that day. Finally, Gaudét’ did not have any
“information concerning the omission of his.name from the
list published in the iPafmeplniey Hauler uP Report.

Based upon this evidence, the Committee does not find

: .
a basis for concluding that Gaudet may have contacted Lee

Harvey Oswald on behalf of the CIA. Although there is a

conflict between Gaudet's testimony and his CIA file concerning:

Classification:

s] ;

1 Classified by derivation:



eee

Be

“Naecimenee

sant

Classification: >

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

the duration of his Agency contacts as well as the performance
of errands, there is no indication from Deve or

testimony that Gaudet's cooperation involved clandestine
activity. Again, it idea be stressed that the Domestic
Contacts Division, which was the Agency component that was

in Aerie Gaudet, was not involved in clandestine

operations.

9. Qswald's Trip to Helsinki and_the Issuance of His Entry
Visa_into the Soviet Union

Oswald's trip from London to-Helsinki has been a point
of controversy because his passport indicates that he arrived
in Finland on October 10, | and the Torni Hotel in
Helsinki had him registered as a guest on that date, but
the only direct flight from London to Helsinki landed at
11:33 Sine according toa memorandum signed in 1964 by

L7£,Oswald had taken this flight, he could

Richard Helms
’ Chaséi ication:
Z Clas

ied by derivation:

SOP EP

were

Serre,

were eT er

or,

w

ne as A aa a


©) Classification; a]

(This form is to be used for material extracted i
from ClA—controlled documents.)

were,

not normally have cleared customs and landing formalities and

ge a eee

reached the Torni Hotel downtown by 2400 (midnight) on the

sworn,

same day-".__/ Further questions concerning this segment of

Oswald's trip have been raised by his ability to obtain a

i
|| Soviet entry visa within only two days of having applied for ;
| it on October 12, 1959.*

rem

The Committee was unable to determine the circumstances

gercabesier

surrounding Oswald's trip from London to Helsinki. Louis

Hopkins, the travel agent who arranged Oswald's initial

et,

transportation from the United States, stated that he did not

know Oswald's ultimate destination at the time that Oswald

booked his passage on the freighter Marion Lykes; consequently,

1 Hopkins had nothing to do with the London to Helsinki leg of 5

*Since Oswald arrived in Helsinki on October 10, 1959, which
was a Saturday, it is assumed that his first opportunity to
apply for a visa was on Monday, the twelfth.

serene

Classification:

£
E
7

om

| Classified by derivation:

SF

I LF


Nemes Nee a

: Nee seein

Lossy Kemer Sey ay = Ee ay

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Oswald's trip. In fact, Hopkins stated that had he known

oN, ae
Oswald's final destination, he would have suggested sailing on
another ship that would have docked at a port more convenient
to Russia..

Hopkins indicated that Oswald did not appear to be
particularly well informed about travel to Europe. The
travel agent did not know whether Oswald had been referred to
him by anyone.

A request for any files that the CIA and Department of
Defense may have pertaining to Lewis Hopkins resulted ina
negative name trace. The Committee was unable to obtain any
additional sources of information regarding Oswald's London
to Helsinki trip.

In contrast, the relative ease with which Oswald

obtained his Soviet Union entry visa was more readily

amenable to inggstigation: This issue is one that was also
assification:

o4

Classified by derivation:

i a a

SOR, ore, Tore, error,

‘err, NEA,

“Ne eH,

Fn i ee ae


Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

of concern to the Warren Commission. _/ Ina letter -to

4
3

the CIA dated May 25, 1964, J. Lee Rankin inquired about the
ue apparent speed with which Oswald's Soviet visa was issued.
Rankin noted that he had recently spoken with Abraham Chayes

of the State Department who contended that at the time

Oswald received his visa to enter Russia from the Soviet
. Embassy in Helsinki, at least one week ordinarily passed

between the time of a tourist's application for a visa and

the issuance of the visa. Rankin contended that if Chayes'

assessment was accurate, then Oswald's ability to obtain

his tourist visa in two dayS “might have been very significant.
The CIA responded to Rankin's request for -information

on July 31, 1964. Richard Helms wrote to Rankin that the Soviet

Consulate in Helsinki was able to issue a transit visa (valid

!

for 24 hours) to U.S. businessmen within five minutes, but -

Classification:

oo

Clossified by derivation:



|
}

neers

{
rs

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

ifa longer stay were intendéa at least one week was needed
to process a visa So and arrange lodging through
Soviet Intourist. A second communciation from Hélms to
Rankin, dated September 14, 1964, added that: during the 1964
tourist season, Soviet Consulates in at least some Western

European cities issued Soviet tourist visas in from five to

seven days.

In an effort to resolve this issue, the Committee has

reviewed the CIA file on Gregory Golub, who was the Soviet
Consul in Helsinki when Oswald. was issued his tourist visa.
Golub's file reveals that, .in addition to his Consular
activities, he was suspected to have been an officer

of the Soviet KGB.

Helsinki -eagcerning Golub

are of particular significance with regard to the time

Two CIA/dispatches from

Ciassification:

& 6 . | | Classified by derivation:

: i : : ° ae


Nee

© Classification: ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

necessary for issuance of visas to Americans for travel into

the Soviet Union. The first dispatch records that /(Golu!
disclosed during a luncheon conversation that:

Moscow had given him the authority to’ give
Americans visas without prior approval from
Moscow. He (Golub) stated that this would
make his job much easier, and as long as

he was convinced the American was "all right"
he could give him a visa in a matter of
minutes... (emphasis added)

The second CIA oS dated October 9, 1959, one
day prior to oswala's“airival in Helsinki, illustrates that
Golub did have the authority to issue visas without delay.

The dispatch discusses a telephone contact between Golub

and his consular counterpart’at the American Embassy in

Helsinki:

Classification:

WET



enemy enn amen a goede ee ae

Classification: sista! etal syste ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

+-.Since that evening “(September 4, 1959) Golub
has only phoned (the US consul) once'and this

was on a business matter. Two Americans were in
the Soviet Consulate at the time and were applying
for Soviet visas thru (sic.) Golub. They had
previously been in the American consulate inquiring
about the possibility of obtaining a Soviet

visa in one or two days. (The U.S. Consul)
advised them to go directly to Golub and

make their request; which they did. Golub

Phoned (the U.S. Consul) to state that he

would give them their visas as soon as they

made advance Intourist reservations. When

they did this, Golub immediately gave them

their visas...*” (emphasis added)

Thus, based upon these two factors: (1) Golub's

NED,

_ authority to issue visas to Americans without prior approval

from Moscow, and (2) .a demonstration of this authority, as

— a

reported in a(cra Aispatoh approxinataly one month prior — f

—

to Oswald's appearance at the Soviet Embassy, the Committee

has found that the available evidence tends to support the

conclusion that issuance of Oswald's :tourist visa within f

cr

*Evidently,. Oswald had made arrangements with Intourist

because upon his arrival at the Moscow railroad station on
October 16, he was met by an Intourist representative and

taken to the Hotel Berlin where he registered as a student. -_~/---

Ciassification: epatioee aay eae
AF i: Classified by derivation:

NEE



{
ge

Ciassification:

(This form is to’ be usell for material extracted : {
from ClA—controlled documents.) : j

two days after his~appearance at the Soviet Consulate was not

necessarily unusual.

10. The Oswald Photograph in _the Office of Naval
Intelligence Files

The Office of Naval Intelligence's Lee Harvey Oswald
file contained a photograph of Oswald, taken at the
approximate time of his Marine Corps induction, that was
contained in an envelope which had on it the language
"REC'D 14. November 1963" and "CIA 77978." These markings -
raised the possibility that Oswald had been in some way
associated with the CIA. .

In response to.a Committee inquiry, the pops erene a

Defense stated that the photograph had been obtained by

ONI as a result of a CIA request for two copies of the most

“recent photographs of Oswald so that an attempt could be made a

Clossification:

FD i Classified by derivetion:



eae

Nese

Nee

O oO

Classification:

(This form is to be used for matbrial extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.) :

‘to verify his reported preseiice in Mexico City. The xequested
copies, however, a not made available to the CIA until
after the President's assassination. Because of the absence
of documentation, no explanation was given for how or when the
Office of Naval intelligence received this particular
photograph of Oswald.

The Committee's review of CIA cable traffic confirmed
that cable number 77978, dated October 24, 1963, was in.

fact a request for two copies of the Department of the Navy's i

Most recent photograph of Lee Henry (sic). Oswald: Moreover,

review of other cable traffic corroborated the Agency's desire -

.
to determine whether Lee Harvey Oswald had, in fact, been

in Mexico City.

Classification:

: 7O : Classified by derivation:

Serer soreeen, weer

Th,

Seer,

wer,

Terre

Nees,


a naneveaair

“einem Reece

© Classification:

(This form is.to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

11. Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City

S

The Committee also considered whether Oswald's activities
and possible associations in Mexico City were indicative of
a relationship between him and the CIA. This aspect of the

Committee's investigation involved a complete review both of

alleged Oswald associates and of various CIA operations outside

_ of the United States.

The Committee found no evidence suggestive of any
relationship between Oswald and the CIA. oreces the
Agency's investigative efforts, prior to the assassination,
regarding Oswald's presence-in Mexico City Sa to confirm
the absence of any relationship with him. specifically, when
apprised of his possible presence in Mexico City, the Agency
both initiated internal inquiries concerning his background

and, once informed of his Soviet experience, notified other |

Classification:

> | i. Classified by derivation:

Serreni,



Paitin

Classification:

{This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

potentially interested federal agencies of his possible
contact with the Soviet embassy in Mexico City. Finally,
the overt nature and frequency of Oswald's contacts with

the Cuban and Soviet Consulates (i.é., a total of at least five

visits) also tended to indicate that Oswald was not under the

direction of any professional intelligence officers.

12. Lee Harvey Oswald's Military Records

The Committee reviewed Oswald's military records because
of allegations that he had received intelligence training

and had participated in intelligence operations during his

:term of service. Particular attention was given to the

charges that Oswald's early discharge from the Marine Corps
was designed to serve as a cover for an intelligence
assignment and that his records reflected aged his true
security clearance nor a substantial period of Service in

Taiwan. These allegations were considered relevant to the

Classification:

: a erie

core

Seren, swreseen,

Swnrees, sree |


LF ey aa

O oO

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

question of whether Oswald had been performing intelligence |
i oN,
assignments for military intelligence as well as to the |

issue of Oswald's possible association with the CIA.

Oswald's Marine Corps records bore no indication that

he had ever received any intelligence training or performed
' “on any intelligence assignments during his term of service.
As a Marine sering in Atsugi, Japan, Oswald had a security

: : clearance of confidential and never received a higher classifi-

cation. Based upon the Warren Commission testimony of John
E. Donavan, the officer who had been in charge of Oswald's
crew, that all personnel working in the radar center were

required to have a minimum security clearance of secret, the

allegation has been made that the security clearance of

confidential in Oswald's records is inaccurate. This

xeorren

allegation, however, was refuted by a review of files belonging

Classification:

wer

9 3 ‘ Classified by derivation:

are cod aerrege 0 evsenear

ey cd



ey
Classification: ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

‘ i
tofour enlisted men who had worked with Oswald; each of them

A. -
had a security clearance of confidential.* = |

Oswald's military records also dispelled the allegation

orn

that he had served for a substantial period in Taiwan. These

records state that Oswald served in Japan from September 12, i

1957 until November 2, 1958. Department of Defense records,

|

however, do indicate that MAG (Mariné Air Group) 11, Oswald's ud

H was deployed for Taiwan on September 16, 1958 and remained in
} ;

a

that area until April 1959, but an examination of the MAG 11

unit diaries indicated that Oswald had remained in Japan as [

i part of a rear echelon. Oswald's records also state that on

were,

October 6, 1958 he was transferred within MAG 11 to a

ecco,

Headquarters and Maintenance Squadron subunit in Atsugi,

Japan. The next week he reportedly spent in the Atsugi

*John E. Donavan, Oswald's immediate commanding officer, did [
have a security clearance of secret.

Classification: Hl

Classified by derivation:



i
}

pienuo epeuaan = Spree ir ey asa

a)

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Station Hospital. On November 2, 1958, Oswald left Japan
for duty in the United States.

Accordingly, there is no indication in Oswald's

military records that he had spent any time in Taiwan. This

finding is contrary to that of the Warren Commission that
Oswald arrived with his unit in Taiwan on September 30, 1958, say

but the Commission's analysis apparently was made without access

“ to the unit diaries of MAG 11.*

Finally, with one exception, the circumstances surrounding
Oswald's rapid discharge from the military do not appear to have
been unusual. Oswald was obligated to service on active duty

until December 7, 1959, but he applied for a hardship discharge

on August 17, 1958 and two weeks later the application

*Similarly, a message sent on November 4, 1959 from the Chief
of Naval Operations concerning Oswald, which states that he
had "served with Marine Air Control Squadrons in Japan and

. Taiwan" may have been issued without checking unit diaries
which indicated that Oswald had not been so deployed. =

Ciassification:

RST:
S75 classified by derivetion:

Se {TSF LE. AMES ik i i a -- - aero

Soren, were

eT, wero, Ser, Nore

omer

eran.

Say


Classification:

(This form is to be used Yor material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

was approved. * It appears, however, that Oswald's
3 application was processed sa expeditiously because it was
: accompanied with all of the necessary documentation.
In response to a Committee inquiry, the Department
: ; of Defense has stated that “to a large extent, the time
i involved in processing depended on how well the individual
member had.prepared the documentation needed for one aeeste

of his or her case." _/ A review of Oswald's case indicates

that his initial application was accompanied by all of the
requisite documentation. Oswald had met the preliminary
requirements of having madéa voluntary contribution to the

hardship dependent and of applying for a dependent's quarters

*By September 4, 1959, Oswald had been informed that he would be
discharged on September 11, 1959. This explains why he was
able to tell passport officials on that day that he expected
to depart the United States on September 21, 1959.

Classification:

y G Classified by derivation:
zs |



ascasiarers

Nee

Nocatee

"iano

©) Classi ication:

(This form is to be used for meterial extracted
from CliA—controlled documents.)

allotment to alleviate the hardship. His application indicated
: acaeatbnas ‘

that these measures had been taken, and was ‘accompanied by
two letters and two affidavits Breueraya to Marguerite
Oswald's inability to support herself.

Documents provided to the Committee by the American Red
Cross indicate that he sought their assistance regarding this
matter, and therefore was probably well advised on the requisite
documentation to support his claim. Indeed, Red Cross officials
interviewed Marguerite Oswald, and concluded that she "could

not be considered employable from an emotional standpoint." cA

. The Fort Worth Red Cross Office indicated a quarters allotment

was necessary for Marguerite Oswald, rather than a hardship
discharge for Lee, and assisted her in the preparation of
the necessary application documents.

Oswald nevertheless informed the Red Cross office in

Classification:

9 7 i Classified by derivation:

<E

oe

SOT, Ere, wen, Seer, Soe, Serr,

* exo xe, Terr Ser eA,

seers,



{
H
!
,

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

El Toro, California, where Ke was then stationed, that he
desired to apply for a hardship discharge. The unusual Beeeee
of Oswald's discharge application was that technically his
requisite application for a quarters allowance for his mother
should have been disallowed because Marguerite's dependency
affidavit stated that Oswald had not contributed any money to
her during the Preceding year. /

Nevertheless, the first officer to review Oswald’s
application noted in his endoresment, dated August 19, 1959,
that "La7 genuine hardship exists in this case, and in my
opinion approval of the Zquarters/ allotment will not

sufficiently alleviate this situation."* / In addition,

five other officers endorsed Oswald's application. ‘The

*This quotation suggests the possibility that applications for
quarters allotments and hardship discharges are considered
independently of one another.

Classification:

Va 1 Classified by derivation:

seer ay aoe wee srtser ser oer a

oo

UPreM seers,

our,

whee


i tebebraatartasds

ee ee a ae ae a ae

Classification:

{This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

Committee was ablé~to contact three of the six endorsing
officers; two had no memory of the event, / and one could not
recall any details. . / The Committee considers their absence
of memory to be indicative of the Oswald pees having been
handled in a routine manner.

Based upon this evidence, the Committee was not able

“ to discern any unusual discrepancies or features in Oswald's

military record.

13. Lee Harvey Oswald's Military Intelligence File

On November 22, 1963, soon after the assassination, Lt.
Col. Robert E. Jones, Goeroriane Officer of the U.S. Army's
112th Military Intelligence Group (MIG), Fort Sam Houston,
San Antonio, Texas, contacted the FBI offices in San Antonio

and Dallas‘and gave those offices detailed information concerning

Oswald and A.J. Hidell, his alleged alias. This information

4) | Classified by derivation:

Classification:

Seren,


Classification: ©

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

suggested the existence of 7 Military Intelligence file on
aN

Oswald, and raised the possibility that he had intelligence
associations of some kind. The Committee's investigation,
however, revealed that military intelligence officials haa
opened a file on Oswald because he was perceived as a possible
counterintelligence threat.

Robert E. Jones testified before the Committee that in
June of 1963 he had been serving as Operations Officer of the

112th Military Intelligence Group at Fort Sam Houston, Texas.*

Under the Group's control were seven regions encompassing five

States: Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma.

Jones was directly responsible for counterintelligence operations,

background investigations, domestic intelligence, and any

*In his testimony, Jones also clarified and corrected the
errors that appeared in communications that were generated as
"a result of the activities of his military intelligence
unit.

Classification:

[2.0 | Classified by derivation:



hE hy ee ye

Cc ©

Classification:

(This, form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

omen

special operations. in this five-state area. He believes that

Oswald first came to his attention in mid-1963 through information

provided to the 112th MIG by the New Orleans Police Department

wren,

to the effect that Oswald had been arrested there in connection

with Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities. As a result of

wera,

this information, the 112th Military Intelligence Group took
an interest in Oswald as a possible counterintelligence

6 : threat. The Group collécted information from local agencies

wore, eee

and the military central records facility, and opened a file

ETE,

under the names Lee Harvey Oswald and A. J. Hidell. Placed

in this file were documents and newspaper articles on such

some,

topics as Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union, his travels
[
there, his marriage to a Russian national, his return to the

United States, and his pro-Cuba activities in New Orleans.

senor,

Classification:

4
b

lo | | | Classified by derivation:
raed Py ay «wey oo



Neen

SEF SBF LE OF Sey

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Jones related that ee 22, 1963, while in his
quarters at Fort Sam Houston, he heard about the assassination
of President Kennedy. Returning immediately to his office, he
contacted MIG personnel i Dallas and, instructed them to
intensify their liaisons with federal, state, and local
agencies and to report back any information obtained. Early
that’ afterhoon, he received a telephone call from. Dallas
advising that an A.J. Hidell had been arrested or had come to
the attention of law enforcement authorities. .Jones checked
the MIG indices, which indicated that there was a file on Lee
Harvey Oswald, also known by the name A.J. Hidell. Pulling the
file, he telephoned the local FBI office in San Antonio to
notify the FBI that he had some information. He soon-was in

telephonic contact with the Dallas FBI office, to which he

summarized the documents in. the file. He believes ‘that one
Classification:

( nN} L 1 Classified by derivation:

series. NATE

seer Pm, ee

sour,

sere


CO Classification: a

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

person with whom he would have spoken was FBI Special Agent

in Charge J. Gordon Shanklin. He may have talked with the
Dallas FBI office more than one time that day.
. Jones testified that his last activity with regard. .

to the Kennedy assassination was to write an “after action"

report, which summarized the actions he had taken, the people

he had notified, and the times of notification, In addition,
Jones believes that this “after action" report includea
information obtained from reports filed by the eight to

twelve Military Intelligence agents who performed liaison
functions with the Secret Service in Dallas on the day of the
assassination. This "after action" report was then maintained
in the Oswald file. Jones did not contact, nor -was he

contacted by, any other law enforcement or intelligence agencies

concerning information which he could provide on Oswald. To

Classification:

lo | Classified by derivation:


|
j
?

e Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from CliA—controlled documents.)

Jones' knowledge, neither thé FBI nor any law Bpebreentae agency
2 : :

ever requested a copy of the Military Intelligence file on
Oswald. To his surprise, neither the FBI, Secret Service, CIA
nor Warren Commission ever interviewed him. No one ever
directed him to withhold any information; on the other hand,
he never came forward and offered anyone further information
relevant to the assassination investigation because he
“felt that the information that /he7 had provided was
sufficient and...a matter of record..."
Communications

Jones' contact with the FBL office in San Antonio is
‘veflected:'in a teletype message sent at 4:25 p.m. on

November 22, 1963, from that FBI office to the FBI Director and

the Special Agent in Charge in Dallas.

Classification: .

ones


eg

Nene dee

€* Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

The Committee found Jones' testimony to be very credible.
oat *

His statements concerning the contents of the Oswald file

are consistent with FI communications that were generated as
a result of the information which he initially provided.
Access to Oswald's Military Intelligence file, which the
Department of Defense never gave to the Warren Commission, was
not possible because the Department of Defense had destroyed -
the file as part of a general program aimed at eliminating all
of its files pertaining to nonmilitary personnel. In

response to a Committee inquiry, the Department of Defense
gave the’ following explanation for the file's destruction:

1. Dossier AB 652876, OSWALD, Lee Harvey, was
identified for deletion from IRR (Intelligence ©
Records and Reports) holdings on Julian date
73060 (1 March 1973) as stamped on the micro-
filmed dossier cover. It is not possible to
determine the actual date when physical
destruction was accomplished, but is credibly
surmised that the destruction was accomplished
within a period not greater than sixty days
following the identification for deletion.

~~ Classification:

a
\ D \ i Classified by derivation:

DS LF LE

— ew Serer, Serre, swore | weer



| Mi 2a aor SLT ALT AT a a
£7,

f
Ye

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

snare

Evidence such as the type of deletion record
available, the individual clerk involved in

the identification, and the projects: in progress
at the time of deletion, all indicate the dossier
deletion resulted from the implementation of a

5 Department of the Army, Adjutant General letter
las dated 1 June 1971, subject: Acquisition of

j Information Concerning Persons and Organizations
not Affiliated with the Department of Defense (DOD)
(Incl 1). Basically, the letter called for the
elimination of files on non-DOD affiliated
persons and organizations.

4
i
:

ermine,

Sere, Seem

2. It is not possible to determine who accomplished
the actual physical destruction of the dossier.

The individual identifying the dossier for deletion
can be determined from the clerk number appearing.
on the available deletion record. The number
indicates that Lyndall E. Harp was the identifying

' .-. Clerk. Harp was an employee of the IRR from 1969

i ; until late 1973, at which time she transferred :
a } to the Defense Investigative Service, Fort Holabird, |

sere

Maryland, where she is still a civil service
employee. The individual ordering the destruction

4 ox deletion cannot be determined. However,. available

H evidence indicates that the dossier was identified

‘ for deletion under a set of criteria applied by
IRR clerks to all files. The basis for these
criteria were established in the 1 June 1971 letter.
There is no indication that the dossier was specifically
identified for review or deletion. All evidence |

on

shows that the file was reviewed as part.of a
generally applied program to eliminate any dossier
_ concerning persons not affiliated with DOD.

1 3. The exact material contained in the dossier
cannot be determined at this time. However,
discussions with all available persons who recall
seeing the dossier reveal that it most probably
included: newspaper clippings relating to pro-
Cuban activities of Oswald, several Federal
Bureau of Investigation reports, and possibly
some Army counterintelligence reports. None of
the persons..indicated that..they..cemember any -

oe

Classified by derivation:

Classification:

2S. Ar ORF SEF 37 «MSP

“SF . sto LSE


aT Hagsaaraa

rnd

O 0

Classification:

{This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

significant {information in the dossier, It shoulda
be noted here that the Army was not asked: to
investigate the assassination. Consequently, any
Army derived information was turned over to the
appropriate civil authority.

4. At the time of the destruction of the Oswald
dossier, IRR was operating under the records
disposal authority contained in the DOD Memorandum
to Secretaries of the Military Departments, OASD(A);
9 February 1972, subject: Records Disposal
Authority (Incl 2). The memorandum forwards
National Archivist disposal criteria which is
similar in nature to the requirements outlined

in the 1 June 1971 instructions. It was not

until 1975 that the archivist changed the criteria
to ensure non-destruction of investigative records
that may be of historical value. any

Upon receipt of this information, the Committee

orally requested the destruction order relating to the file

on Oswald. Ina letter dated September 13, 1978, the General

Counsel of the Department of.the Army replied that no such

order existed:

Army regulations do not. require any type of
specific order before intelligence files can be

destroyed, and none was prepared in connection
with the destruction of the Oswald file. As a rule,

investigative information on persons not directly
affiliated with the Defense Department can be retained
in Army files only for short periods of time and in
carefully. regulated—_circumstances. The -Oswald-filte

Classification:

( of 1 Classified by derivation:

SS Tey CCE seer rad ed =

wee,

Serre,

Ser,



Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—<ontrolled documents.)

was destroyed routinely in accordance with normal
files management procedures, as are thousands of
intelligence files annually. sy A

Nite

The Committee finds this "routine" destruction of the

Nee

Oswald file extremely troublesome, especially when viewed in

light of the Department of Defense's failure to make this file
i available to the Warren Commission. Despite the credibility
of Jones' testimony, without access to this file the question

of Oswald's possible affiliation with military intelligence

cannot be fully resolved. The absence of this file, however,

has no bearing upon the Committee's conclusion concerning
i the absence of any relationship between Lee Harvey Oswald

and the CIA.

Classification:

[08 |
Y i Classified by derivation:

wr

atm 0 A Pa AUST 5.

see

errr, Serpe, errr sermon,

eee ore,
