# 180-10143-10233

## Page 1

180-10143-10233

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Russell August Längelle.

Genzman

5-4-78

SECA

ET)

Robert Genzman and Harold

Lexp interviewed Russell August

Langelle at C/A headquarters

on May 4, 1928. The intervieco

yielded the following information:

Fangelle joined the CIA in

September 1950, and worked

mainly in SR9 of the soviet

Russia

Division....

In... Rovember

- the pee the a agay

ments. His CIA files would

have reflected this termination

E employment. The only document

to the contrary would

Rave been

a memorandum

from the Director

when he returned to the C/A."

Cat present this document would

probably be in his personnel

file.o

11112574

Approximatel

enew that fanges fifteen people

e was still

with the erA after his resigna-

7 perations, e George Risevalir

rank Lery, Ted Polling

SEGRET

10143-10233

---

## Page 2

Genzman

5-4-78

r.-$

SECRET

Jack Kindschi, Dune Sworbuck)

the State

Departments Office of

At the time of his resignation,

angelle applied for employment

epartmen

the interim he worked. at the

secht Company or march

on March 1956

State Department. as a security

Officer..

on september 1956 he

was sent to Vienna, where he

carned a reputation for being

a strict security Officer at the

on On personnel ta ton

security, in order to build his

cover as a non-CIA. foreign

paid by the state Department

27 The ClA Chief of station in Urenna

11112575

officer ne the pro Ember

senor CIA Tficer there. The

C/A contingen

consisted of

officers

4/V

---

## Page 3

Genzman

5-4-78

i..d

SLORET

seorge

P. Winters (Econ 130 pficer),. FNU

03 Mahoney,.

FNU Unables, and Steveos

Washenko. Econ3: or AgricO fficer)

dean Leberman.

who handled

orientation projects, rather than

perations projects

Langelle handled CIA

communications in Moscow. The

CIA

could

but

by means of

so that

the message was secret until

it was forwarded to CIA head-

quarters, where it was

on 1959 the Soviets declared,

Langelle persona son grata as.

I reset of his involvement with

are flier it por, who worke

or the

nd was questioned for two

nd a half hours.

The KGB

attempted to recruit him, and

then released him. The State

- SECKET

11112576

---

## Page 4

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

but angele a as one to da,

the Soviet Inion within three

days. He left the soviet Inion

in early October 1959.

Langelle first became avare

f See Harvey Oswald when he

heard in a conversation that

a Marine had contacted the

American consular office in

Moscow to renounce his citizenship.

He later heard that this individual

had changed his mind and was

returning to the United states.

He does not recall the details

United sta

Feline see pale in tre

11326071

Langelle characterized Oswald's

defection as a consular case to

be handled by consular officers,

rather than an intelligence case

involving intelligence officers.

who were shorthanded in Moscows

It that time. the stated that

the few intelligence: officers in

Moscow at that time were

involved in specific operations,

and did not perform general

intelligence functions. We also.

stated that intelligence officers

at the Embassy did not use

SEC

the

for intelligence

'Et purposes, and "that there were

---

## Page 5

Genzman.

5-4-78

SECRET

in the consular

section.

Langelle stated that the

military intelligence people at the

Embassy probably would have been

contacted about Oswald's defection.

The military intelligence personnel

included Leo Dulacki. (Marines),

Paul Adame (Nady), John

was an intelligence officer or

whether Davison was involved

in the Penkorsky case

Langelle stated that when

Oswald left the foret Inion,

he was the responsibility of the

State Department, the denmigration

and Naturalization Service, and

the FBI.

11112578

When Langels left

Moscow en 195% Wenters was

the senor CIA officer there

03 (Mahoney) and Feberman were still

there,...

are been the a angel erity

Officer was John Abidiant coRe

was not with the CIA. abidian

was later replaced by Hugh

Montgomery, who was Winter s

successor as senor C'A officer

- SECRET

Z/RU

---

## Page 6

6

Gerzman

5-4-78

SECRET

Montgomery was later replacea by

Paul Garbler.

First officially lo became thie

of station in Moscow. Other

C)A officers in Moscow circa 03

1962 included Rodney Cartons

Bill Forbaly, and possibly dohn

03 D. Remenway

It headquarters the chief

of the Soviet Russia Division

was fohn Maury, followed by

Howard Osborne and then

David C. Murphy.

With regard to American

journalists in Mosçow, Langelle

had no contacts with. R. 5.

or aune Mosby,

lid not know ad. Goldberg,

and was contacted by Priscilla

Johnson for an interview after

he was declared persona. non

grata.

When Langelle returned to the

_ SECRET -

11112579

United states, he continued working

for the state Department, He resumed

- 1961. Led tart murication

between Washington and Moscow.

In Saptember 176/ he resumed [hia) C/A duties

on a full-time basis at headquarters. He.

worked mainly in the foret Russia

Nursion, External Operations, Africa and

Europeze

Ot present he is still with the

c/Alland still paid by

but he plans to retire soon.

---

## Page 7

ISEORET

Langelle

Langelt was born on.

October 71922.

His social security number is E95-18-8800}

It is married, with three children: 30

Sangel

a ponie the Cere.

seplender, 195°

and worked mainly unn

Soviet

Pisiao Division.

In November! 955 che

have

assigne termination of employment.

the only document to the contrary would

have been a memorandum fron the

Director of Central Intelligen

Dulless stating that s' gell would

virori

говат

ersonnel

file.)

relain all rights and benefit

fifteen people knew that he was

Johnson (Chieft of Operations), George

Riscalper (sp), Frank Ferry, Ted

Polling, Jack findsche, fine o

forbuck; e Ed Gallouay, Seonar

se coy (Reports and Regurements);

Pierre da silva (COS), and

someone at the

State Depastment:

plice of Security? SICRET 11112601

Hang a

be at

the time of his

reapintent 1 sapplied trent.

15.42 R

4/pd

---

## Page 8

*SECRET

-Langelle handled C)A communications

in Moscow, The CIA

But

couldi

by sears

no that the

message

was secret until it was

forwarded to CIA Headquarters for

-----...

11112581

- SECRET

---

## Page 9

deliberately tough on CHA personnel bor

security breaches in arder to ste

deer biuld

In the interim he worked at the techt

Company. In March 1956 he legion

started to work at the State Nepartment

ary as pos

state pant a decurity Officer, "He a span a the

tenna in Seplember 1906,s on Segliter

1956 le was sent to Vienna, where he

adapest tee reputation

Jungwas

a strict security opficer; the

Chief of Station] not the (im, Vienna) and

ambassados knew

=" he wat writh

parth fate deed as the Sanity,

officer at the Moscow Embassy prom

December 1952 to deptem 62 1959.

du additions he cas the senior ClA

officer there, with

CIA officist working

and assrosimately

wronge 1'

winess?

Genables) " and

dean Libermands

'insert]

handled orientation

projecte rathes than operations grijects

SECRET

11110682

on 1959 Sno the Soviets declared.

l'Angeli persona non grata. as a result

Do hio involvement with P.J. Popor.

Lange li was the case officer for Popor,

Who worked for the Susat GRU,

Soviet military intelligence

Kangets

had been

Heater

While

alla

ZIPV

---

## Page 10

3

SECRET

making a contact with Popor

Langelle was detained by the KGB

and was questioned for;

half Rours. The KES attempled

to recruit him, than released

ding ends

- The state Department

filed a formal protest, but Langelle

was forced to bave the soviet Unis

within three days...

Langelle, first became aware

I See Harvey swald when he heard

i conversation that a former Mariac

had contacted the american consular

office in Moscow to renounce his

citizenship: He later heard that

this individual dad changed his

mind and was returning. to the

United Stater. He does not recall

the details of these conversations.

site bless taly took plane

Langelle characterized Orwald s

secton Qs a consular case to be

landled by consular officers rather

Ran an intelligence caseust

volving entelligens officers. who

were shorthanded in thoscow at that

time.

He otated that the few

intelligence officers in Moscour at that

SECRET time were involved in specific

gerate in lege did prote one perform

Embasase.

the a tani cal when he male

---

## Page 11

4

and that were were

the consular section i

in

SECRET

left the soviet Union, was the

regonsifility of the State Department,

the Immigration and Naturalization

dervice, and the FB!

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959,

Winters was the senior CIA officer lkere

Mahoney and Sebernan were stell there,

and Washenko may still have been there

fangalles"replacement at Embassy Security

officer was John abidian Tanko was

not with the CHA. Abidian was

entered replaced 22t ate cou

Montgomery, who

replaced by faul Farter, who becane

of station in Moscow.

...Other C)A

ficers in Mosco circa 1962 included

Military telligence

in Moscow incladed

personnel

al Adama

(exol) attache (Nags

Ot headquarters, the l chist of the

ferret Russia Quision was John

Mawry, followed by Howard Osborne

and ther

David E.

Murphy.

- SECRET

11112584

4IRJ

---

## Page 12

6

SECRET

When Largelle returned to the

United states, he continued working for the

State Department. Heresumed FRisCIA

duties on a partitime basis in 1951 te dealt

with communications betweer Washington and Moscow.

on september 196| he resumed ThrifC/A duties

on a full-time bascs at Headquarters.

He worked mainly in the sovietkussia

Division, External Operations, africa

and Europe see reTA and resee se

Jout he

plano to retire soon....

11112585

SECRET

---

## Page 13

sangelle

Russell August 8306

SEGRET

Genzmar

5-4-78

E/A

Nor 55

inter n

'fot rit"

qtecht Co

ituiled

Ptate

Mar 5856

Jpt56

10-7-22

(+95-18-8.8082

3 ch

Sept.50

SRDiT: (SR9)

language, operatimal tmel

..expesience, rolias., stabil.

In word disgruntled'?

resigied fron agency.

= - Sed. Off.

memo fron derector

Vlenna

elrightso benefits

chenreturns"

Mos cour -Dee.5)

(Dulles)

sept. 59

15 knew

ESR9 -internalops

gros.componente

peogle all buried])

Iconpliot

notastetion

ffirat Cos Peul Gartler

-SE Gohin Doury

5RI/Soe Bulick) '3

Cl. of Opa Quertin Goknson

Gesnge Petofahhe Cop.) Kescbaltes

hiah Kimsty

DOS

mrloscow

Oune Sworbrck) 3

Ee celloway Pos

Reporto + Re guuremente

Fernard Me loy

COS Puerze de Selire.

Office of security

es-ateplia not aware?

fficert

11112586

SECRET

S/NV

---

## Page 14

rangelle

2

alidián

serion

officer

SEGREE

SECRET,

Genzman

5-4-78

George. P.

- Winters, atones @enatt

steve Washenko (Con. Officer.) 03,32

Plan. Leterman

'24

-- orientation:

rather than operations

left in 59

John Abidion (date dee Offer

took over fate.

responsibilities)

George P. Winters?

Washenko?- meyse still There

Mahoney 103 $ Seberman

PNG

Lagency oration

penetration or BRt-nil intel.

popor. agent

1'6 was case off:

case compromised

got approval from Thrush.

to kidnap - as steppers

tried to recruit

pleased ofter 2% hrs.

said they would get in touch

state protested

PNG

11172587

Beck to des

-storked for state. dan 60

handled State Dipt disties

It agency functionin?

---

## Page 15

ingelle.

Plenget

3

SECRET

Genzman

5-4-78

(Penkousky)

cut out-Brit. wife

SR9 sapt. ' =

62

Enoved bad I to CIA

on pull-time basis dget. 6)

(004158 - beft.59)

[maRong: ESA officer.)

[communicit. = Mos. to HOT

5R9 Jack Maury

EWinters remained I

<HO.

is conversation a consular officer said Marine

- renounced stipenship.

walke ina

consular off. would bring it to your attention

George Wieselper Fin Bestin, handles Poron fobile

handled Penkost

maybe Rosento.

11112588

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

Fangelle

L'Oepgeti

SECRET

Genzman

5-4-28

ino

in consular section

mil. intell.

Pailo Adams: Maa:

Ted Hoffman arm

cases Noo:

Dulacki Mar.

would have been contacted

Korengo- no contrels

Sohnson- asked for intercio after his PNG

Mosby- no contacts

Gredberg-didn't know.

Davison - decan't know if agency

not incooled in Pent. to his knowled!

personnel could not be used for intel. without

prior approval

provocations

Itarmatone ]

11112589

Naval eviater.

atsugi - 53-55

SECRET

---

## Page 17

rangele

i Langeli

5.

SECRET

Gonzmar

5-4-78

62

Hugh Montgomery (senior)

(John Do Weingway) (P)

Paul Garbler (COS; replaced Matgone )

(Body Carlion 03

But MarChy

No commo souves register wite mel. + Moscow

63 - 5R , Chief of External: Opa.

africa + Eur.

32

Moscow

6513 - Moscow

David E. Murply

-Chiefof SR Dis - 8$ 64-65

cos tin Berlin during

Popor operation while

L' in Moscow

ther Maury

Pollened y Howard Osborne

murphy

11112530

SECRET

5110

---

## Page 18

5.

RET

pe feel that the military intelie

contacted about Cowald's defection.

included that 9t

Dulacki (Marines), Paul

adams (Navy)s.

munson

whether he

With regard to American

journalists in Moscow, Langelle

had no contacts with X. G. Torengold

or alive Morty, did not know

a. I Goldoing, and was contacted

he was declared persond non

grata.

SECRET

11112591

---

## Page 19

SECRET

08

120.61

(Eugene 03 (Maroney) - Rt / BaBelu

30-61 -

11:<4

Farbles

- Vierma Hile ct: 22180

Пте6:62 - 200p. 63

Osborne-ome Lean

1356-4650)

_Montgomery =

Rodney Callion

gue 63, 31ayg 65 Eduard Botchel

HQ

il fan 63, 18 gan 6 Jany

annual Beave til 224

PrehnS

_HQ 2p.n

Man 12

Joh, Moury

1Dec 54-298ul.62

3704 Farr ave,

Faisfas

39jul 82 158ept.63

Howard g. Совочне

atty. John Debalus

948-6727

David C. Murghy

1537 Forezt

168ipt63-10Me Villar Fane, NeFa

356-9523

11112592

SECR 7

---

