# 180-10144-10022

## Page 1

180-10144-10022

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5/15/28

Version

Interrogation giden to Warren Commision

By

-Mexican Guvereinent

On November 23,1963, one day. ofte the assaisintin

7. john 7. Kevinedy, the... Centel Intellegar agere)'.... Meric

Cy. Headquarters suggested to tesican.. trails that they arrest

Alica Jealo. De. Duan. ( Mexi 7029 to thes

the DiREctor, Now. as, ines;

More a tria Eternia; Novele 23, 1942) Mair Coy beatin

ashed that... Sylica Tirals de Duan be held in

she gane the Mesican Since all The die

I the pame dat. Captan trait taterg Bailers, aisestant

Wireter if the taleel Security olice interageted her. at 6100 pime

that wining. (CE 212), Nss). In swan stated that she begor the

mates the suay to the case thee malls fin to

the arsesten f for 3 Keely at tied if the deach o

Maricarmen. Olivere, who had been occupying that poston 7. (icted p.37

the see plet in pl like legaler on enly con et t

hauch. amican, by the name f the Hary Daald Noglish for an inter

visa to Russia It Cula to cell puantal viduce that de te

beese... in Risia for thee years, that he was missied to at Russian

Orlaus palled"Hair Play In Cola". COswald stersed to Shin Dicen

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Dates AS SANITIZE

2003

180-10144-10022

---

## Page 2

5/15/18

C that his visa application. shall he recepted as he was a friend

I the Claws Perletin. Slee swan state that they i colonis

ith he tito, he til ant the aspirit applice TO see

ther. deft. and retuered in the ofterom with the meccusary

petage i bean the that at that Fre stinking her.

duties, she telephoned the Russian. Consulate because f her interest.

_Caled p.

in faultating the haulling f the Ruisian iss fr tee Hawey Oswall

Anim enter Ill in that see i it fee

appetity fur menths in gircising the case; which arged the

Harvey Orwald since, according to his statements, he was in a great.

harry. to obtain visor to travel to pusses. It insisted on his right

to do it in we of his ingend logey,

and his... actintes on

behalf f the Chan novement, (lil p.39) When O swald inders.

that it was not gisble I you time a Cuban isa withnt lie previnedy.

(he 3).

tainag a Risian iss, he became asterly angry, We this print, bis...

fant o his fire and agent wad saull in light in age at

Mr. ague tel the that a guan the him, ince fang the chan

Rishin, lil it harm Illne. O sinll it that jient state that thee bed th

---

## Page 3

5/05/78

basis. for gusting his is with ingeng, one, that his nt to storie.

m. swan stated that

a spite of the argument she gave Dewall a guise f peper with her name.

e ente one mandes it, had o) he has intel the landing of his.

Relatio

one-application by sanding t to the bar Wistry of. foreign, from which a rasly..

wa Duan statch that she loes not recall whether Orald cubsequently acted her.

(on the consente phone wimber which she hal gene his Clad t s Dun

tetel that all the conversatives that he mad Custer Oyare hal with O wald.

ere in the English lnguage pence Oswuld lid it yeah any arich help t)...

don fully, she stated that you sceny the Havey Lowed's shotgugh in the..

injayes..she.inmedely.recogujet.end.itentificl.t.us.vewy.the.same-pesson

hit the remembed as see thing Dould ord

Aglia Duan was reliasid Nor 24,1963 and rearrested

Cor. 22))

196s... where tho

Missions gresument fount that Sylve pras

tempting to leave Netics for Have

Cable fine ambarzado to Healgesteo,....

Nov: 27, 1963, Mei lol, CIA $ 493) Ducey thi interogstone she remembered

Oswald jefedly and denied he wore son glarses. (Calli frome Welie

---

## Page 4

Original Signed Statement of Syluia Duran Interrogation By

Menoton

Genernment

Syluea. Ducan was arrestel on Nor. 23.. and interingätch

it 8:00 pm. (see previous section).. at that time her petinent statements

but the assassinative and Jee Harvey Oswald were wither dain

by the redicin greement and Sylvea signed the stetement...

see laming tart the arsen de ant len helend.

picolatch that Kennedy way have been assaisinted for paceal peasons.

Where she become aware that the assaisin was Lee Harney Oswald,

du ascatainet that it was the pame mare that about two menchs

had been t the Clare Greete to policit an intensit.

rsa to pussie, having taken his name from the special.

tossmentation he pusenled: he was marred to a hussian sonan

ised belonged to the "Hoir Plag In Cab Conmittee; she-pherhed.

the datas in the Consolate aschines and then she became stilain

that it was the same pedividual, who was blonde, shout, dessed ...

incigarely.. and atten face touch ped john argi. His vess was

lenied because, the Consul told him, that to otton ore from the

can guerment it was impetic that he Man i fun, thiet

Colite, since attaining a case for the smite tok four much.

and Oswald had to leave Metics pron, he became epcited, and Shan.

had to call the Consul who had an argument with him

---

## Page 5

The only and the could gover Osweld wits i ading. that

he go. to the soviet Consul, and also calling. the pecson in charge.

f the.. ffice. The smeet ffecial toll her that they mll have to

mault nose, which onel take fres month. That flenon, Is stony

----.

and returned to phe Cuban Comanite and dyla Ducas confamed

that he ince aty get a chan ma, the he recent a Risian wise

she as gave Oswald hei name and besiness phone sanher but never

gase him her alteis because she hal so recoon to gise it. to him.

O she fine that phoning the Consulate was not one 8 her.

dites and that if ahe did so she did it only to chile osuned..

busineis

She gove her her, phone number only because he comed have to.

call subequently to check whether he had oltaned a visa. He

never called buck I Blind News re I Hairy Owll I Syles Duran,

Rovember 26,1963, (IA #473)

Sylvia Duan was releanel

No, 74,1963..

in. 27(7).

NOT ALL THAT CEAR IS IT?

1963) when the Merican goi

unment freet that sylria wa

attempting to leave Mexico for Havara ( Calle fine Nepico Headguantes to.

Station to Healguantra, Ra 27, 1923, Medi 11a1, CiA 493) Durig =che

interrogatin she remembered Sowall Onferly and denied he wre

---

## Page 6

1963, Wei 7364, CIA No: 557-558) Otherise though there was no.

Athon... to her origin story (ibed).

---

## Page 7

ON All the ExplaNatioNs: "OR ThE

MEXiCAN GOVErNMENTECOuld hAVE

C

AdiffErENT STATEMENT, Or MORE

EXTENSIVE NOTES

The followiing.....

mateual friend in the Warren Consesser

set 212 was wist in the seen grenment i get i geis

he Ma Duan stated that she become the secretang to the consul three

oncho prior to the assaisination. 3 Jhu 7i Kennedy due to-she deach f

lancaine Oleare, uho had been occugging the joston (W6212 p,37].

äething...

plation; Mis Decai did not made this stament in her segied affilanet.

i the Hecan givesment could easily have discened the alme because.

Ost actually rene...

Osuld jesented evidence that he had been in fursia for three yeois.

Explanation: Although Mes Dease did not state this me here segred statement

the Mexicans ull attibute it to her because it appeach on Oswald's

iban visa application Insert [ser attich]

Oswald stressed to Sylica Duan that his visa applain.

shree be accepted as he was a friend f the Cuban Revolution, Ected p. 33

yplanation: It is pissible that after Tee Harvey Oswald stateh that he

about gesting a te

belonged... to the "Fair Play for Caba Committer and there aged that

I the netian greenent coull. have dissed that he had fascelly

stated that his visa application: should he accepted as he was a

- friend E the Cubaru Revolution,

---

## Page 8

also, in a cable for the slives City Station to Hend atles

э: Not 23, Chief f Station Winston Seill intes That Echewassia toll

him that syluce Ducan stiled. that See Hainey Drewald shoved her

a Unted states garget showery a lay atay in USSA. Icale chef ?

Statini: to Nardguates, Now. 23,1943, Medi 7046, CiA No. 424; Chronogy, &

Mine Gorgastero, entry rio. 59, Ne 23, 1943, CIA No. 638)

---

## Page 9

Could see left and sled in the flewo with the

wessary photoginghs;. (ibed p.39).

splanation: The Select Committee or Assassinations can not fellitan

thyy.. this statiment is attubnted to ho Dean if nowhere in her..

iquel statement she mentines photogughs. The only costething.

se g infrate the Crete fund wis that te Catin Gene, Comin

with the House Select Cometti an Assassmate

stel that Osult did not bring a ghitagingh on his fust vesit

C to the Clan Comanlate and this was fred to nter the

Oswald insisted on hea reget to obtani a visa in vico g

hia backgund, loyalty and his activities on behaef f the

iban masemest. Libil p 39)

planation: See, number thric

Wa Duan stated the shited Called Cran Ayere, who it

Let time was in his pinate ffice accompanied by his

jcoming replacement alfredo Micabal (ind p. 10)

Explanation:: The Arise Select Committee on Assassinateria frend m

idence: I this ptatement. It is not in to Duesus segnail

statement an N, Eusebio ajare in an interrusio on

---

## Page 10

I stated that the was Clone in his Stig where Sylice Decen

called his to speak to Dawalk,' (

I Wh. Agore told Osmall that a person like home, instead... f

uding the Cabana Pentaler, did it harm... (iled p 40).

Explanation: It is possible that the Mesicaw. goverment coll

anne, in lyle of the agent sten oall and age, thief?

Azee will made such a statement.

Si She also instated the handling f his visa applecative by

sending it to the clan Hersty f Foreign Relina, fine

which a reply was received in the normal manner. some fifteen

to thily dags later, aborg the issuance. f a mess, on the

condition. that he preventy attaii a pressian rean: libid p 40)

Explanation: althugh the sover

as... not in Wis Duran's

sigued statement, 'I actedly served and the besion greet

and have atlated the statement the her. HOW?

9. Mrs. Devas stated that she does nit peall whether Oscold

subseguently. called her or the Consulate phone number. which ahe

Chad given hin.... (slant. p.40)

Explanation: Mrs. Dean. never reade the alme statement. In fort.

in her sequel statement she said that she had gives him

---

## Page 11

I her baners olome mumber decause de would hive to call

subsequently to check whither he had oltarned a visa, but that

he had. never called bomnte,...

10. Sylvia Duan stated that all the conciations that she and lockin.

azee had with Oswald were in the Caglish language since Downll ded..

Explanation: sylica does nit state this in her signed Itlement. The Stepcan

gincement and the Centel Intelligence jency lock ind infremation for..

I the taps Ithat a guan who called the donist Enloney; allegelly

Oswald, pohe spanish in some f his coversatin! See sectori on Russe

emen no I were there kid's CAlls Ki 2 eil one concein

He Syluca Dean stated that apon peeing. Ice Harin Oswalk is hagg

in the. newspaper, she immetentely recoynged and stent fied it as.

s that when she become aware that the crossi was see Howe

sswald; she asceaned that it was the same mi that about thint

months....cailies earlies had bees to the Cabar Conside to solet an

intransit visa. to Russia, having. taken his i ind ferve the special.

documention de gresental: le as mained to a Rescin amar

---

## Page 12

and belonged to the Faire Play Fr Cuba Committer; she esteched

the deta in. the Consulate actives.. and ther phe became perlani

that it was the same individual who was blonds, short, dressed.

inclegantly and whose face turned red wher angry. ( lind Items ne

Lee Harvey Oscald + Sylvia Duian: Nveiber 26, 1963, CIA # 473).

cable from the Mexico City Statin to Healzuaters on An 23,1963, Chief 3.

Statem Winston Sciot sosites that Scheracia toll him -that sylvia Dusan

Hated that she had peragaged Oswall on IV Hoember 2 and hand

Staturi to Healgrades, Hr 23, 1963, Medi 1046, CANo 422; Chilogy arre

Artisters pentag ma imo 7m 7hm. 1963, 61A No Na .

C

---

## Page 13

C In feeing matial found in sie Dean's aguel statemet

never made its jay to che Warn Concessino Echibit 2121..

1. Where she became aware that the assaisen was Ie Harvey Oswald, -

he ascertamid that it was the pame man that abit two north.

arlier had been to the Chase Consulte to sliet an intransit vesa;

to Russia, having taken his same fross the special documentation he

intel he was maisied to a fissian ionase and belonget to she

Fair Play ta Cala Commithe , she checked the dats in the Consutale.

achines aid them she became entain that It mad the same.

dividict, who was blonde, shot, dressed unclegantly and whore face

ned red when anguy. (Blund Mens ne. See Harvey Oswald + Sylvie Duran, 13/26/43, CIA*+

Explanation: The statement attubsted to Mus Decase in the interrogatini

got given to the warsew Conscision as at the abre but the

feeling syline Dean site that igore secing tee Hainey Owed

tagagh in the repagns, she emmeditely mergazel and identfied.

2 sylera Duan's ojial statement to the berran pfinds it.

Capers that swald may have had the argument with the Cant

I his funt wisit to the condite and the it he tuned

se regas a ju cares we all tea one engie me?

---

## Page 14

(13)

C Explanation This can he explained in the f the my the orgind

is written... It i just statements and is not in asey cheological

aity..

3c The only and she ill gie Oswall uns adriscing his

to go to the smet Consil,. (Blink Items ne Jes Haney Osured

Slice Dian: 1421/13, -CIA$ 473)

Explanation: lui Wanen Commissin philat 2121, received finne the

sion grenment, it spence that the claus fese,

sited Oswall i vis appliestin and never ffered hine

dissensated to the 7.BI, State Department aid the White Hase,

Heatzuates glutes fum the Messian police regent f Decanis

interrogation i "The conoul there spoke by telephone to the person

in change of that office, and was infrimed that the case would have

to be refersed to Hose and that there porld be a free merith

C delang. (Cable Headgeles H0.. ClA, Statet White House, DITT 85758) She

0.....-

-Ches Itterin 3 Enchie Agene

---

## Page 15

(04)

Lie

Sylvia. Dwa. stated. that. Ice Harey Oswald vested

the Cuban. Consulate on only two occanzions.... She stated. that the

frost risit scurid. on the money. I a day in either bate september.

or. early. October. The second visit occured on the afternone f the same dite. Ihe....

The Cursint twice

isits surt on Setinker 27 1963 A phone call fume sylica Duea

to the soviet Inbring at tos pire that afterion appears in the transigh.

I she dedini setter the set Energ, in which she diceiases...

C

Oswald's case- with a somet fficial to ass her phone number.

to call her back Classiful Staff Summong I Pican 2 CIA Documenes, 3/9/78

ip. 6=7,p ClAN°S 320-32; -Catle fine efio Cety to the Duentro, "/20/43, Mexi 7025, C1

105-218-219; CiA Transenge from Russian Entary, 119/13. Civ 27) 02 4266pm

he american... atiger had been-to the Cuban Coustite office syler

esponded affinitwlyresponding that. the Ameican was at the free at.

ip 7-10, CIA Nos 321-324; Cabli fum... Metics City I the Duector, "123/13,

( Medi 1005, CIA NOs 219-221; CIA Transcape fun... Russin Embersy, ?: 113,

=1ANs.30) le additin the vise applicatin is dited september 27* and

a hunter gene in an intere on mill the sled Can the

---

## Page 16

(5)

on Arzarsinatios stetil that he recalled? broold rested

At lEASt ONdE oN the day the ApplicatioN wAs de t

Carban. Consulate/outh 27th f Sgtenter..

Jhe Aruse Select Committie on Assassinators has. also

print. evedenco.. that. phows... that O swald visited. the Cabar

consulate not tor tres as blic man statet but thei

times. A phone call from syla Decan to the doet Embassy

at il51 a.m on Satuday sept, 28,1943 aspears n the tranges.

- the electrics suveillance)f the saret Consulate.

(pit, there as an ansas Pitizen at the clare Consulate who.

had prevenuly rested the Inveet Consulate She subsequerly put her ow.

the line: and he conveisil with the diet Pril in Russian.....

(Classfied Staff Summary 7 Revie 7 CIA Document, 99/18,-pp 10-17,.

CIA Nosi 324326; CLA Transcryl fem Russian Embarsy, 9/28/43, CIA. NO. 25).

---

## Page 17

Contral Intelligence Aguary Cäbles Me Duran

MCS.

..m... November. 23, 1943,.

"The... centent titligence" agent sent.

le. aguey stated that she mao a ilefica atzen who had gut... Osavall

i touch with the sout Imbay Thing gue Chenica a We wach

dant eders, her meter alb her busther's alders, her hence o

mcs

he hone. phne subes and her plise f work. The Centeal Intellence Agencyal

uggested. that Duan he hild incominent intel she co be gredimed on the

vette CRite I Lies Chiraria to avest Sylvia Durari, Raember 23, 1143,

One the same day the chief. f Saton, Wenston Acott, rewish phone

call from get when in darking ten hugly seen tens anding that

Sylice Duran not be areated. Winston Seatl told Fash WhateIthat it

too late, shat he call not real get and that the seen I

holl already have received e cable which stoled that Echemania hel

licity been tell to ravest Sylica, as a Heshear intestere.

(Nate Witter by Chiff Statin he phne call wich Jack Whither

520: 73,

Rn 23,1465; Chioscogy gugared by Anre Gorbastere, WX7Z41, entry 37, CIANO, 635)..

---

## Page 18

did. statein that We would hags that her arrest world be. Kyr

alishutely secret, that no informator from hes is. published on leaked,

that all infrination from her is cabled to Washingto inmedately

thingh me; and that hir anest an'd statements.. not apread -to an

liftist gimps... (Chiff-Statin phne call to Luis Eterarica, No 23, 1943, 614 no.

chrone an i st, en i enter 23, 1963, CIA Mes) Flock Call fun

The Castial date gone agency's interest in Seet Duear

are fun dyla Daan, they and the refito genoment t...

ate tango, shanting the veg station's neppes

try our he get the you for ton

no the atti gricroncant.

also... Abramber 2325753, Chenaria called the metic....

chief f statin Winston seret with the fist regents f the sylica

Ducas stereogatin, He stated that dybin Dean hal guer a

---

## Page 19

(within statement actsting to two at one, cont entirel

Sylver stated that Lte

Be i prent doting a long dry in the ISS. Case shes

Drean. wnte. up. p.T)... She also istated that she recognight Dewall

on TV... No. 22... and Ill her husband, Iratis Decan abnot the

Om Nrember 2t,1963 in a cable from the Medics aty Statem

to Helguarters, alich consisted o abditris or amendments to what Charani

had aheady Ill Winstm. beat abut Sylvis Dean's interrogation, the

(filming was attubith to slice Duan: The paisont owncl

twed... her

pI) Duan had the inquision that Daweld had or belined he

had made evangements in Washingtow wherely instructins would be sent

to the soviet Enlassy. in Mesic to issue him a bout entey viss

in a manner by whech he wall. sit have to visit the sireet Embersy

himses. (Cable fire Netier City Statin to Headgeater, An.24, 1978, Mesi ,,...

ClA. no.. 423-42% ; Chinedogs 8 Qune Gorgesture, Nor 27,1963, entry no 71, CIA No. 6H1).

though. this statement. is attubsted. to Sylves Decan as early as Nor 24,

( 1943, et does not appea is etcher Alrea Duan's pigsel

statement. nss... in CE2/Z1. given to the Wanew Comemeisiri.. by the

Euro from. transcRipts.

slicean geesement

---

## Page 20

Insert

18 a

What appears in the tracripts is that Sylverin had

sent. the Amerison. to the Arist Inbessy stating that his arziring

assued. That that wald be is proller. (Clans fred Stall Sainma

pReview f CIA Dozine, 79/8, 0p67, CIA NoS. 320-321 ; Calle fam

letico City to the Diseat, "/0/63, Mei 725, CIA NoS. 218:219; CIA

---

## Page 21

On Nw. 24, 1963, steadqwarters yet worced stunt. what

oswell, may have toed Sylick Dean about his future flaws.

a cable. fum Nealuaters to the Weter City Stater, healguarters win

after amlying. all the traffic and reading the statement. one ang tant

quite tell guggles as When the t an is aty in late

duptembe... and canly Oteber to get a sieet visa and a Cuban bran

risa, did he want to travel to cla right away, alone, i k

his wife goen him there and them leave fue. Cube, or did hi

I plan to retune to the stater fut and the have bite.!"

althnigh it appears that he was them thanking exty about a pency

change fraidence te the diet them, it is aber priatle

that he was... getting documented to make a guich sange after

assassinating the pendent Please pastedy your (henry) readerie

and give. as you aperin, and alas have Meticans. quester

ми, следи

thor 74.i963,

Stater cable samsay fall stocton information on Sighris T. Ducer, Jhey car

Crete theatr

Haney Dawall in Aritacts with the Chan and first Embassie, (Calle fer

CIA Readjuster, 25, 1963, 219 8412L, CIA No 03 Chumsy 8 due britne

---

## Page 22

•November 25,1963, ente. no, 87, CIA No 647)

The Weino City pla to 01634926. on ithe pris dong

perching the Hea guates all the enfroncaton they posened on Silves Deeen.

and slating that

vesita C Calle frim Metero Cl Statin to MeaLguates, Der 25,1963, Mexi 7065, CIA. NO I.

Nit. only was the Crtist tillegeee Aginay concured wich Mes...

" envenen sete Prisht uters and Chan Anteralo Jorgin Derand

Ducas ay. money po that she cinel say that Ensalis agens had

qued may to the American ( Ie Harvey Oaned) (Calle fum Nesses Ct, Stalm.

' Healguaitera, dr. 25,194), Meri 7068, CIA.No 392; Choubgy7 Aune Grelgasture,,

Nor 25,1963, enter no 95, CIAno. 648)

In. a cable dated Mor: 26,1943, Quaszelos Ditar regrested schat...

Jean luste, Ne Cone and Hover be girem the filhorg puggidens... fam

(Aracado Agate and the porcito batie Doilera de Seriad

dens that Aglen Deen te tild that she in the orig leving ar. Clere

ht lenos the full story and herce she is in the sere olen that

---

## Page 23

that the orig chance. for servened is to come clean with the while. fling

and to conquite couptilly with the heren gresent in petrine. for

sliven grement quitectin. They ator suggest that the Merers panish

Layeria Dear Immediately. so as to eliminate the piers ty f ter

beg Amuggled. ont f also to Cata or telled here. (Cable fume Neperio

At Stitem o Malgianter, Naember 26, 1963, Mexi 7072, CrA No 387; Chandagy 6

aris Artgasture, Member 24,1563, entry M0: 97, CIA Ma 64%)

C

Ose Hoember 26, the Medican givermet. frowadel fogies. f

Aghe Duesis pegned statement to the Centerl detellegese aguery

Ses previenis sactemi.)

Onu Nevember 27, 1963, r Washington SA, Heckguärter ashed the heleer

ty slatin to request the nescan authentics to interrogate sylvia

Quan to the extent necessary to confy the outstanting grante

tick had been raised in their cables the gravens 18 his Headguiter

watch that the Messer City. Stalin and purede questines to the

meqcan.. intercogators hut that they insted That no. American

-eme in intact with Duean. (Celle ClA Heatguaite I Nephan.

City. Stalini, No 27,1943, De 85318, CIA Ns. 497, Churlagy 8 Are Gorkyetwe

Mr. 27, 1943, entig as 121, CIA Ne 053.

---

## Page 24

On Krenber 27,1963, the Chief f Stalem pas molfuct deng

Luis.. Ecleracus:at.. 1215 that. Sylvea Deean had bere reeristed. beean

she.. was attenpting. to leve. Nletico fur Cala.. (Cille Ir Heedgusnters fur

Mepico Gty, Arvember 27,1963, Mledi 1101, ClA no. 493 ; Chemolagy 6 crne

Herdjasene, Niveibee 27,1965, sste, no 125, CLAso 655.)

Om Rrvember 27,1963, Ambarsado slawn requested the nleseio al,

Statin to gars a cable to sccttary 8 Stute, Dian Ruak with three

jiincipal denlopmento sunce. the greveris pable (Ace p 2) Sylrea Decan prate ug.).

O. sirilresing alnacado Uyaute and peteing here azasist Duean

O rerail. f. Sylica. Dueen

O reguent for anest pi Eusebio agene, alfrndo Huabel, Juss Alleen ind

ped-teetel regro.

( Calle Mepiio aty Staten to Healguantero,

Nosembes 27,1963, Nesi 7904, CIA no, 781 j Chemolozy 7 Aune Hortpasteo, Rrvember 27,.

-1963, entry no. 126, CoA w. 655) ]

On Mrember 27,1963, the Wesier Cly Stelem sent a ptrtistatee

cogy 3 Sylvca Ausenis den page pegnel ptatement. ( Cable Napero

City Stahm.... to Healgantera, Aivember 27,1943, Nled 2/05, CIA. N0.47; Chunlag.

3 arse. Errkgaititao, Paresubor 27,1963, Enteg 140 127, CIA. MO. 656.)

Ose... Arember 28,1963, pha Cential Intillegence Ogeneya Weshengon

(Headgusiteus... sent a claifüüntem calle to, Hetier Cily Statno platising

that they panled. to iniine that neither dylica Dreen nor. the Ctons

got... the inguessini... that the Amecicano were telind her rcarrest..

---

## Page 25

( They stiled," a me ast the pite authoties to take

the reagently for the will offin.

(Cable form Headgusites to the

01885374)

Welcer City Stälma, Nembee 18, 1963, CIA No. 464; Christogy & Are Gripeiline

Minender 281963, enting no. 141, CIA.No. 658)

Ore Anember 28,1962, the Medican City Statin seril e cable

to the Direct f the cantent datellagence angery stating th

hard repted m Mw. 27,1943, that Sylves Denis. anst Mas gulle.

Canoelze. in the Cuban Embery: He also ranted that me. Merender 25, 193..

(ter Dinar nitened to her office... she permed quite. pleased with her

pefrmance...... She states. that the Welcan police had thentined her pach

dudition to the Until thates, she hal no fear f enfertilm.

(Calle fum Meter City Statem to the Deceit, Rivember 28, 1963, Nepi 1115,

CLA No 463; Chronology fOrese Footpasture, November 28,1963, esteg no 15%,

/A No. 662).

One Ariember 28, 1963, the Mereno City Stater sent a pable he

he... Director f the Centeal Intellegence Ayesy stating that the... peare.

Sylie. Darea. on.. the Horesment f Hefers sitives without cousilly

S the sees Cl, State shoved a get dire for. the bestin

uthmntes.... to bef pervice... The cable dos stited -phet -the More.

City Staton hal no atlanative but to enform Echernia chit

---

## Page 26

her. finteried detentin; shat the decision munt te the Hasica grecerence

ros... (Cable fum. Neti Cly. Station to. Headguäles, Avember 28, 1963,-

Mex 7118, CLA No. 461, Chimology 8 Anne Sorpastere, Morenbe 28, 1963,

entrano. 156, CIA No. 662)

On Nember 29,1963. Echevarica adrisent Chuff Statim,.

Werstn perth, that Sylvia Dulan hed been released.. at 7100 pm

Metro aty temi o. Riember 28 Chiancia farther statel. That

I Duran is under close suinellan and will be appichendid

ay time they recavad infresenten to varant st. Echerancia alar

stated. that Aylice Dran still aspeared. Io the Nericai to have.

bes iled only. in he businers f staning Clan and Aniet

visa. fu Oswald (Celle fim Mesco city alguatea to Dieta,

Novembe 29,1963 Mesi 7125, CIA N. 459; Chenrlo 8 Anne Aortgasteae,.

Novembe 29,1963, entey nr 144, (IA No. 663)

the CrA Washl 89.

Ose Avvember 29,1963,. asted the Mesier Cty Statem to Key-them

infomed. on the stetus f. the interrogatinis.. s Stia Ducan, Abradd Ugarte

Cand her inglestel as sady as fritte ('Cale Saluter t

Mesco Cit, Station, Nno 29,1963, DIR 856.72, CIANo. 457,. Chinclogy f Crinc

Arobastere, Rnember 29, 1963, ele no 170, CIA NO (GF)

---

## Page 27

On November 30,1963, Headquare requested the mether aty

Statin to slay inimediatily all the infinestio they received to the.

7B.1. Jegat.. attacho in Alpero (Calle fum Headquartero to Meter.

At Statimi, November 30,1963, DIR 85712, ClANs. 454; Chenology 3 Aure...

Hootpaster, Maember 30,1963, sotty no 174, CIA No. 6651)

On. December 12,1943, Dealgraters cabled Meper Cty Stetin stating

that the.. Federd Burean f tavestigater was pushing to wend ug its

inalysis f nets aspects this case and ingently reds resuets. from. the

" sitergaten f slice. Dean and her husland dining ther secred

arrest. Headquarters congestured that Duan may not have bees interrogated.

it all during her second anest but that herso City shall fried out

the facts and advise. ( Cable Headjuates to Mercio City State, Dec 12, 1963,

DIP 88642, CIA. NO.559; Chemology 8 Anne Marlastie, Dee 14,1965, ente 0.25,....

CLA No. 679)

On December 12,1963 Meter aty staten cabled the results f-the

send interrogatin a Slica Ducar, to Healguanters... (Ses preveris... pertin,;

Cable fime Medicio Aty Statem to Director, December 12, 1963, Mexi 7364, CIA

No. 557-8; Cheonology 8 Anne Sorepadre, Dee 18, 69s, entry no. 352,

CIA No. 679).

One December 21, 1943, Neatguads celed Were that then oresent plan

---

## Page 28

in parsing information to the Wansen Commissirie Mas to elimiate

actin legine to I in ander the gusted the enting pertains.,.

I he Centeal. tutellyere agency. well rely instend on. Sylvia Duran's stitements.

al. or the parist Crisular files which the Sweets gore. the Stets department

Headguates stressed that start, detailed infristaton firme

m just what Aylies Decan and other fficiels pand about Oswald's visit.

nd... his destige toned be valuable and insible probatine cvedenee... (CIA Cable.

um. Headquaites.. to Meter City Stater, Dee 21,1963, DIR. 90466, CIA.No S49; Chanclogy

7 Anne Fortgastire, Dee: 21,1963, entry no. 268, CIA No. 682)

One Janany 2,192k, Muper City Statin explane th Headgrites phat

... 9.

"get that yin t said that she WAS oftly willing thad to the

ited... states to enfront Oswall if necessary (Cable Nepico ity. StatiN

cadquarters, Ja inney 2, 1764, Medi 7115, CANo. 575.; Chronology 8 Arene Gorkgarten

#January 3, nting inting so, CIA CIA NO, 682)...

Or. Agul 1, 1204, lead gunchu called the Hefer aty Staken that ty wished.

alert them that there members. f Harron f the Warsen Grisession Nested

Willers, Slamoon, and Clemen. ll arrive ichant publicity on trust

aids Apuls to donfer wich the steless City Staten alrit the eniestegative

itten the as the Dowell cas. Headquarter as stitl-that the pasts

---

## Page 29

juryoe...jo.to.assure.theresetves.abmt.theinvestigateoiiocompletentos.

(Cable Gadgante. to. Nepico City Statini, Agul 7,196%, DITC12633,, CiA $ 5.35;

Ching if anne Gorlynster, Goril 7,1963, entry no. 319, CIA. No. 124)

:.. Or Agul Agul 196%, kendgrianters called the Hese City Station -that

the Warren Commissimo Staffins want to down if the Miss greement has

7B- integates and in geneed want to kon f all the prialli steps tree taken.

Headquentes called that some f the highly touchy angests they will destros ae....

tastes they slimed tell to the Mition Nice thema, where they

ahmet to. Fach to phia Dueen in Metics at the Cusseite and whiche

the ikeases in bet them gublish: what they did es the whole cac... Hefned

ste called that the loven Crimin stillers binst the Cantin dilly

guy he the fared and that they many tie prized fume the.

mang that dey hal glite grate and a ones on the Chen eateng

bute that. they do not tono the dearls on the agency's arangenet

wich the Means, Healuatens faster called that the chief. f Statem.

shall land then all the peded aistlane with the minimum.

(prisible disclosure f assets and techuge C Calle Headgueders, 7

the Weter... cly Statio, Aguit 8,1964, D.1R. 13026, ClA No. 5.33:, Chemitag

3 anne Copatee, Gil 3, 1964 entr no 320, (1A:M 698)

---

## Page 30

One Gaged 111961 mete the. Warier Grenzi plaffers requestid a

emplete witter rignt f the incerines telen and prestigations parte" by

the Weficion authodes after the assassmation. They gromisell. that areng

with the Metican Withntes pun to jublecten (Cle fum Negio Ely

Statem to Healgusters, Agril 11, 1964, Nes 8984, CIA No. 528; Chunology 6.

Qune Grotestre, @pul 14,196, enten 333, CIA N. 700)

One Men B, the the Meet aty stalin called Helie a.

ery the officed nort on tight Does, an a repuse I the

reguest made to fuis Eateraria, Ating Wrist Ghercicon, bry the thee

staff member f the Warren Coins who parted Hear in Aful 1964.

HMMA 25520, CLANS NS Charlogy Chanulogg Gratfalent, May Nay24,1964 entry.

Mr 346, CIANO 205

discursing dyle Dee . .....

hardenty sample ashed if there pas infirmatin atalable on the ement.

stetus... f hes perale, atttude and enot engloyment, Headgwaders alor belines

C that the Waves Concieroin night went Duan to windy that she

compiled Orall's visa pleten gages. ( Catle Her guarters It Were

Cite, Station. Legtember 14, DISC DISC C/A CLAN. Chemlone Chaml7 Arre

---

## Page 31

CArlastine, Jet, 16, 196%, entry no. 320, CIA M. 107)

One best 16, 1964, the Warren Commissa requested any substantive

date. which call be thel, in a publiked sport as an authrititive foure

f. the allegateme that Sylvie Dear and her hubend were or au

members f the Comment party, (Cable Healgrant to Deprio C,

Statina, Set 16, 1964, Dir 49941, C1A N0622; Charloy f Arena

Gregistone, Best 16, 196%, entry no 371, CIAN. 709)

Om best 18,08, Maguer inind, at the asterity f oarin.

resa apolicitin, Healguastes also daled for other exangles or blanks

for comparison aul jossill authentiction, ( Calla deadquarters to Medeer C.

Statem, Sipt 18,1969, DI 50732, CIA No 621; Chaolagy f Aure Gotpasture,.

Sate 18,1944, entry no 372 CLANO 710).

On Sept, 19, 1944, Headgarten learned that Was Decan was no

longer: in tities but that her husband, Hounter, bank Kest ip

pegment on pent, light bills, and seemed to love as well as sier

Healgrenter Sipt, 15,1564, Meri 0930, CANo 619j Chinlogy Qun

Agate, Set. 19190, sody no. 370, CIA 1o. 10)

---

## Page 32

One seglander 30; the Never City Statew learned that Sylvia

Dean had been on an. excussion with sme slidents to bale Weyines

and Neila, (Celle Nepico Cty Stater to Dealgueles, October 5,1964, 2164 1170

CIA No. 598; Chionalig f Anne Hortgaler, 0€5,1964, entry no. 393, CIA No 5.98.

---

