# 180-10144-10093

## Page 1

180-10144-10093

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

p.l

Questions for Thomas B. Caravis ]

I. Employment

A. Puseat prection- retured a still w/CIA?

B Prition at time of desaination flie Parin))

Mature of pretion, ses possibilities

Nature of cover

- shutter communications

- Use of cut-outs

C. Poution pun to assegnment

i Paris (SR6)

That is fusetion of SR be Brakeh?

Rescuption of comporesents within SR Burned

Nature of his respiratilities as thief of SR6

D. Pretion prir to SR 6 Aesiganent (Tapar)

The uas the stationed?

That was nature of wock at this particular station?

What was dis pritton tee?

That were his spinstilitie in that prestion?

Did station have asy wolvement w/U-2 pogram?

What eds of operations did the stateor conduct?

What was the relationchip bitures the

EA Faired the

Wet te aware of thase persons Who were miltary stelesce

personnel?

10044-10093.

SECRE

RETURM TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3/жк

---

## Page 2

SECREI

p. 2

III. 435 - 173-A

A. Explais uncumstances sounding the writng of the mens -

was it written in response to some kind of inductions for

all. DA. persuad to report any waable infornation regaiding

WHo or was it spontanow in hes part?

B. Lover steet

Whs was

Rotect bi Kanpull..)

2 sta rain Jarmo

edestify Halter P. Haleger; Wey was mens wrtter to dis?

1.

7

What is the distinction beturer the "b Blanch" i the " Resold

Section"?

Who uru the Cuf & Deputy Chief of the 6 Rinauck Sectin?

Hea did this discssion tike place?

? wahlas a summer of 1960."

o when hho was in route to 1.5.? Eaves this mesh wot When

Caves say le left s26 for Peris assigninest?]

What wer "otter sutable chaisebs"?

I. 50, ely wheek comptscats

Ken suck persons we dirlped in toute from USSR

toILS. sy axotte stetion o. In a safe house?

resowed

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

p. 3

[Paragraph / 2,.

_ STATE DENT

edentify PACID. ]

Khat send of forsation had less freira concern it?

What did he mess by swalds uncal televis"?

In regard to tulag. ls subracates not to puce too dad, what

Lid de mean? Who were the subordinetes to whom de was refung?

Thy are tuck of pritcula interest?

Was Muce a relatarly unknown our?

Hes las asia faware of be exstence of as intellegence tacking schel.

и. Meask?

[Paragrape] 3.

What was lic peror come pugnment?

The was de plaving ate it?

Idestify RUDOV. J

Why does memo state le was phasing out of KUDOVE.

His refer to plasing out of HAS or out of DDP altogen?)

Addendum

KUDESK

Esplain Legal Travelles program.

Khe ran it?

What Kind of fumation we they sukeg?

How did thee deffer from cases in whick.

bed would contact (sef.

tallus pur to their departuce? then debrif them upor thei returk?

What did he mean My the Havey stey...

'? Lt's unlikely tat its

a typo. in light of the fact that the mane Dweld already appears

ture before in that same senterce

SEGRET

2,

---

## Page 4

SECRET

I. Are laces here contacted ily anyone in the agery on,

Ms arista puor intrust a tao as excreased in the men

II. Subsequent to this own decion as referenced 4435-173:A,

sould de, in any of his poetess, have KUs I LHO WAs O

lad we beer is agent of the CIA or any oti intellegence organization?

Who, is what dursess, would have dad see to the type of

upo.?

How arule 1004

адену association the industed, if at all, In a persone

file?

Would a 201 file indieste sperationel use? How?

201 peng sheet.

Has de aware, in les pouter as Chuf of SR 6, that a 201 file on

swald crusted? If 5o, did te lave a lofy?

Ideatery "AG undu.

"the Mextfuation

- that type of info is gerally put in the estegory?

Identfy runners is Section III f-opeang. form

Has "Dr4" outively weed to denote he ISSe?

Has does the mussou " 931" represent.

Why would" C/SI6." And IR" he urud Hit?

Khy would ISIs have opened the ile on Oswald?

Kky wouldnt the se aurion have opened a we on hAl upon

leasing of is pliesee in the USSR?

SECRET

---

