# 180-10145-10440

## Page 1

180-10145-10440.•

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

READY

DDO

SECRET

141418

80x55 Polder 7

DEMORENSCHI LOT

CONTACT RP

_26 APR 43

WUBRINT / 1 TELE. TO REPORT OU MEETING

THAT DATE WI CHARLES I DEM

DEM CLAMS THAT NE NAS DONE GEO

LOGICAL WORK FOR TNE MEEK (?) CO.:

IN OFFSHORE DIL, THE ARABIAN PENSULA,

AND IN MENTIONING THIS WUBRINY/L

SAYS DEM LOOLED AROUSED TIR ROOM

- OVER NIS SHOULDER I SAID THAT "MY

CONNECTION' WITH THIS 1S, OF COURSE, CONFI-

DENTIAL. 1

4A INFO SUPPORE AND CRANKOLÜSKI FRON

BALOG

ON 6 MAI ES SO PRIV. CONVER. LASTINE

ABOUT ONE IR WI. CHARLES

FROM NOW ON HE PAS TO DEAL WH

UNGOT OFFICIALS WO DEN

GOD RAPPORT

•EST. LY CHARISS

DERIVED FROM!

O DECI. EX

TIVECLBY

MEMO 28 NR 60

11112736

1 aut

REVW ON 1IT DEC

FROM JI LASTON MUDRE

- UNTS CLEARES CONTACTS UNO MOVO BE

INTERESTED IN PUBS."

"CiVIL CONSULPT

OF PETTO. PRODUCTS IN USSE 1953-5

NUALIFICO AGENT PUS - SEORS

180-10145-10440°

---

## Page 2

EGRE

DEM IS USTED

MEMO 13 AUG 58

DISAPPRONED FOR USE

MEMO 13 APR 71

TO. CHIEF OLD

SUBS: WEAA-TU CHARGE THAT LNO

WAS EMP. BY CAT JIWALTON MOURE

KNOW LHO

ACCORDINE TO MOURE'S RECIRDS TRE LAST

TIME HE SAW OR TALKED TO DEM

was for of 1961; traderk

MOORE NAS NO RECOLEECTION OF ANT

CONV. WL DEM CONC. LNO

POSSIBLE TIME CALED MOORE AFTER

THEIR RETURN IN SPRING oF 1904

MORE DOESN'T RECALL IT, BUT MOULS

HAVE DECLINED TO DISUSS ASSAS

BECAUSE OF MC INVEST

1111>.737

MOORE RELAUS ONLT TARO OCCASIONS

LONES NET WIFE MET DE M

FIRST, SPRING OF 1958 - TO DISUUSS

MANLAND CHINA

SECOND, FALL OF 1961 AFTER WALKING

TRIP TO SNOW PUSTUS

SHERUMAIFCLBY 011142

SERNEY

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

DERMATIVE CL EY

DERNED FROM_

MORES BISHOP

#129262

MENO 1 MAY 64

TO: ACTINO CHIEE, CONTACT DIU.

FROM : DALLAS RES. AGENT

1 HANE KNOWN GEO DEM E WIFE SINGE1957

CALES ON DEM EDRUT DE 57, SEMMTES

NALE CHECE ATER ICA TRAP

GUT BIO DATE

SAU DEMS SEGER TINGE IN 58 AND 5S

MODRE

PLAT HANDBALL MY ORLOV

MEMO 10 MAr 63

SUBI CHARLES

JOSEPHI DELER PROTE TO DELMAR RECOUMELOS -

ING CARLES

MES. MATLAX MENTIONES SHE HAD

ALERTED COL. SAM KAIL TO CONTACT

ORTER IN ORDER TO OSTALIN BACKGRAND

INFO ON CHARLES

11112738

CHARLES TELE. MATCK WHEN IN N1

SINE NER NAME AHD BEEN SUPPLIES

TO HIM Be DeTER

DU BE M'E3 MATHAUE FEPORTER TAT

KAIL HAD INTERVIED ORTER SEIDET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

CHARLES IS TRAVELUNO W/ DOM

DEM IS TRYING TO ARLNGE A MEETINE

FOR CHARLES WI V.P. VORNSOU

PROCESS STEET FOR

DOC COLLECTIONS

LIBI. POSITION IF TRE CHUREN/ ANTI-

REGMS FEEUNG (YUGU.)

SOUR GEO DE

LAK DF INTERTET IN COUM. 106010G1/

NTIONALITIES PROS.

NAT'L PRIDE FEELING OF SUPER:

OVER SOV. SATS.

EFFECT OF DECENTRALIZATION IN

THE an INDUS.

COMPANIES + PEOPLE KNOWN TO OR

AGGOC W/ DO M

909 RELIENCE LIT

505 N. ENVOY

DALLAS 1, TEXAS

KATIAN ATURE INSI.

11112739

BOX 118, JEREMIE, HAITI

•TO: MISS LACDUELINE NOSESA

4O MRS: UGU. DE M

PENCIL.

GIL WARENUE, INC:

CRIERRE RENE FREYSS

3191. CONQUEALTH DR. DERIVATIVECLEY 01144₴

In DEE 1998

Doers

DERIVED FROM....

SIGRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

179035

FBI MEMO 3/6/67

RECROS OF SURETE NATIONALE (FRENN

NAT'L POLICE AND THE DIRECTION DE

LA SURVELANCE DE TERRITOIRE,

FRENCH COUNTERESPIONAGE SERV., WERE

CHECKED ON 314/6f WU NGESTIVE SUES

CARD

DE M N3M6 + 201#725-439

+01-289-248 8D8563

He ory person te brew of that

I mosey won the beer out

nto took agreat terest in

owas. He sad that from his

watconstip u/the 2 he.

trought

omar would do anyth the

corala to nove to varsion te

would tave gove. the trow goo

outer perser who her more upid

ere over sound thes outy

1111>741

can Desser lege tai

Heo. Listed on chewtia as tails

wipe gearre as Coon

011442

DERIVED FROM

56.3

SSESCRET

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

F. SCHUMACHERT CO. LPIERRE RENE PRETES

LIGTS ALEX GIBSON.

701 ME. ZENS ST. MIAMI

AbO ZND

SAUL, EWING, REMICE I SAUL

PHILADELPAIA

PACKILO BLDO.

CASE POSTALE 217

1211 GENEVA Z (GUISSE)

PIO CRESPI (FLORENCE)

ENOVATION IN O'S: NO MENTION. OF LNO!

DE VATIVE

DECL CREVVI

DERIVED

FBI RIT. 2/25/64 Or JAMES F. MORRISSEY.

FILE NO. 100 - 1689

P. 4

SEE. DINI RECORDS OF ICA: DE WAS

CONTRACT EMPLOTEE DURINO 1951

P. 12 FRETSS:

11112740

FIRST MET SEM IN 1930

4IRES HIM AS SALESMAN

-1 HAVE NO KNOLEDGE OF H'S ACTS.

BORNE WAIT, BECALE I WAS ANAT

• HE MAD NO CONNEDION M ME

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Dispacer 1416

20: Chif kudesk

From cos P-au-P

susp for.ggert..

letter.

11- Det 1965 proranted Paris

T. Strumitro

Paris VII

51 Rue de Varerre

dance

voracion w/ intercept i sourd

the your boy fit something a

focus so bad ipo or fin i 8

no pave

from: 909 Reliente fit.

505.71. Enoy

Parias

5/7/655

11112742

505n. Erea

Dallas

DEHIVATIVE CLBY 0/1442

1998

- DERIVED FROM

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SEGRET

fert Lhispater..

23 July tot

20: Chieg WHD

don con PauP

On 20 guse bt corred V. Rediricius

werito dirci at Dez tasse

Chantes reputred tho te te

eure tuter in Con

Caracie

non tup to Dever 1 Dallas.

ratare o th tip, out o at

udoustedy was y #cT= 28

auplare ded.

after playin, terris u DeW ar

Petonortie Club or Il July

DEDICALIVE CL BY

1o

DENIEDERON

Haiti lastig + T-28 airplar

deal were day work o tante

but sor corial

4) cach

orre

11112743

to jeins from Dallas: (prof Hersy

pa free

StiCRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

later 625, 000 econoring for

each pease was regured.

Zeross fourd out cort flare

dial t cancelled the export wit

at dipe reception.

Dez inroeuced tus. Canoe

Roussies (pronetic), tunres

deal

wed fronder - in or peere

tremo 3 Jur 64

for Parkin

on IT han ot the FBI firested to

this agery a 1p dotea 19228.

64.

retail abant yuri (Hco.)

Jedor alefsee-

viet fanarin in 1946

read son swamir to beer

assaber que for Stite See

Sere prot. sire de ma 19402

I arved in Cula in 1943; often

Hurgay thaland.

11112744

tras Card to JW hoore for Harte

"you must tave wed

torible

SECRET

195,3

---

## Page 10

SEGRET

LAdy

Suite 101

17251 88NW

wash

jar for be 1955-50

Lead g281's draugural Cam

nemo 74 5207 1967

to pocca from Hansar

I report does not this

saran as for statesee..

contacters ant Saamis

was ore liie I caourd

auntie gener 1 Papis f, M03

11110745

DERMATRE CL BY 011442

I DECIO REVW ON 12 DEZ. 1998

DEPRET FROM D9 C3

S. cCRET

---

