# 180-10144-10393

## Page 1

(180-10144-10393

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3/13/78

PRIORIT

CIA KIS

всем канок

ASE AS

198,

Keene Of fined Howard.

HuNt

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

PIciodic File Summary

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED..

180-10144-10393

---

## Page 2

cover to Mexico City PCS-

bath IMARC duties.....

Change laid into pushing

Hunt far IMARe not tria -

Barneo, is ane interested a

Memo from DOS/Questi=

gatioss and Operational

upport to 005 dated 6/23/60

Officer from Project IMARC]

stated that the Subject Ittunt?

istogoon PCs basis to.

Mexico under.commercial

corevasa writer Newill

be the political action

man for. the Project.in

Merico as a representative

to the FRD....

Priov. to his

Pcsassignment to Mexico,.

subject is going to cuba.

---

## Page 3

3

and free whaler. He said that

the subjest indicaled a need.

foranautomobile to be

purchased for him for use.

in Mexico and strongh

requested.a.comvestible for

this pus ope ali eto

as happy. to see the

not used on the Traject

An official routing slip

indicates. that I.Coking;

c Enerotigative file memorandu

of Hunt be iraived

4124 dated 11/6/60

---

## Page 4

Vol

.I..

Oletter to the Directos, FBI,

dated.c/12/49.requests@om

incestigation of Hunt The

reason plent themlay

ment

A memo to the files, dated

6/24/49, reports that Hunt

had been attatched to 055

om 2/1/45 and was released.

from 554 on 12/10145-

Ameno dated 9/29/49 repants

that Hunt served in the air.

Force until / 46. He was

5/48 to

not employed. he was unitin

this memo recor

mends

securite

yapproval

security cleara

nicion. 30

leptember:1949to-serve.in

anovert-capacity as a Plans

---

## Page 5

offices for, Progranis ano

Pla

mning.....

5. Hunt isassi

gned as an

Intellia

m1/s1e officer in OP

Amenso from Hunt dated."

2/27/50 says that dusine

1948 + 1949 he worked for the

the manhang attachin"

2 Memo dated 12/1/5.0 re.

interview with Hunt t

a to acce

of state

8. Outravel order dated 2/4/53

lists Hunt's position.as

mexico.

He is goingon

ome leave before reassign=

ment d here isa similas

travel order dated 4/15/53

---

## Page 6

3

Request for Personnel Action

dated 5/18/53 Resorts

Hunts ayapointment as

in tha notat, seizin

and Psych Varfare staff,.

Office of the Chief, Washington

10.

In 1/54 Hunt traveled through

the SEarea to servei

aperations and far field

consultations (fraun travel

orders) His itenera

Franciserma

I tincluded

sane, turky and egypt

/1.

a reas prosing

Hunt with ADP/FE, P+P.StAfF.

and reports that he will

be traveling to Fokyo.on

5/27/54.

12. Carbond deares tent

DDP/FE, etc

---

## Page 7

1s A sequent for securiti

certification alated 10/22/54

reports that stunt is being

3/1/57

14

Requent for Persornel Action

station!

' area aps off (cos..

15 Gravelorders dateal. 11/19/54

for Dent to go to Maranian.

as Washington.

1e I ravel order dated 6/37/550

Hunt to Aruguay

his official station di

montevideo...

12 Interisiew processing shet:

dated. /25/57. reports Hunt

---

## Page 8

5

is departing for struguay

1e/18k65 requests a "Contract

In maid that bor ma

1911

security blicial tella ma

specific jab./

[i care it statement)

---

## Page 9

20.1

Clearance action reçord

Hunt is.con

~ Contract Sype

to staff.

as 00P/ EUR, dost to

to Chairman, NATO

Intelligene cop tiss

22 Routin

and Record.

Shet dated i8 Madch 19la9

callo sunt "Chief, EURICA"

reports lait tivestigation

---

## Page 10

7

in 1949 and that he has

not been investigated

apparently. because he

was either overseas or.

astaffagent"

3 blind memo dated 1/30.

reports how this 21o

This Day at into th

agencyshands

24.

Merno dated 11/27/72 reports

that routine no reinvesti

gationof Hunt was under.i

taken in 1969 and completed

in 1970

25

5 Supplemental PHS: dated 3/20/67.

A 7/65-706 Madiid..

6. 6/62-7165

C ..

PotomAC MY

nder.nominalstate.cover

26.5. PHS, dated 10/29/62

1/53 - 6160

....:.

7/60-10/60 -

Mexico City

10/60-7/61

TO S'PRESENT"

WAS.H,

---

## Page 11

VOLUMN II

Cable (MONT 3530) dated

statedthatduring.his

private talk uith President

Eisenhowes he intends to

request President Eisenhower

to cancel IXtunts transfes

permit remain. in present

capacity.!

Handuritten note dated 6/22/60.

rays that tunt is "iye for.

y what appeaors to lre

S PhAlEN!!)

Cubo on 27 Juneio tthen.

proceed.under.commercial

---

## Page 12

4

3

missus

arifinal

mUsaguay

now working.

from

Problem!

124/61

s Memo to Chief 5.

1S,-from

Bruce Sortie), Chief 13.B/5RS/0S

w: aborie cable

Subject (sunt] hasna

problem in the past and

apparently.coti

a problem."

Does, taclites Branch, -

section, Mashington

as

Ken fier PRA Redeed

per. R-20-10, para 10C (z) for

~ period of 90 Days.

SOP/CAStall

Office of thi Chief /45-4

Spent officer tongs thate?

---

## Page 13

5

is filling as lares te

S. LEVE

he has

1.0.

Mata: Backestop estabilished

with Us army

11.

Reassion Procesin

astigmarent to.. DOP/DODS +

..1.:.

says that Hunt is "approved

por domestic asssignment...

12: Request for Personnel Actio.

dated 1/15/1; reassignment

Recar Ao Calation.

ugton, aran

Qps..Off.from

DOP/WH..

BR. 4./ TemporAry...

13. REPA dated 1/17/62s: reassigiment..

effective blank; CF to.CF, to.

---

## Page 14

Office.of

the chest inh, as an

Ops officer..

1= Memo from Hunt to the Os

"translations, statistical

researchand occasional

letters for the Spanish

Ambassador."

15 memo fion Sheffield

date pot saraha

usibe

incompatable

embar

ment

16 Handinita Memora dum for

---

## Page 15

repents that a securiti

se has reported that

17.

11/14/62 Memo from Employee:

activity Prachch/PS0/05 to

Chief, Personnel Security

Division, 05

recommendsdisagarossal.of.

request for sacurity for.

wives joe.

"Subject's file indicates that

1.8:

Memo. from Agories

paraisal section

Hunt checked under.caRIP

---

## Page 16

reigna to Restating

translation work farthe

spanish Embassy. Stunt

is reported as fuzzingion.

pproval and

20

Memo for the record

indated, buy Hun

Leorge, Chief, FI, thermo..

dad cops of morandem

dated 18 and 20 February

---

## Page 17

Radicle in a persuasinid

during tons one to the

president the views af

endasha Rats american'

3. Mr seorge regarded th

material too sensitive to be

routine meano,

and decided to show it only

to Mv. Helms.

materialto.Mv.Helms.who

---

## Page 18

speculated whether ornat

hi stught not take it the thage

"demuned, pointing out the

Meeting them the lang.

ndicated that nothing shouldls

done with the material until.

Mr. Leorge retuned froma

tavlasttripand.could conside

the matter farther.

5. Mr deorge then asked Mo Helms

Daid that inder the circumstances

sheabisolutely.shouldl not."

messines ne wife?

plot ment do it agencys

operational benefits? - if not.

---

## Page 19

22 Official routing slipdated.

2/18/3 from Phalentto

P/pAB and Mr Dugan says

That "Bubject is not to

a under RTI

23

Memo for record by Laurenc

Paradlated 18 April 1963-

Discussed Aunt's memo t

Bannerman's RS with

(Minterson 16 April, Parn)

is worried because the situ -

ation.could.beembarrasing

because "Mro Hunt is.

engaging in intelligen

in the United States

shant an alicitinty

This.wras.tl

he problem

anticipated when. O5 denied,

non bo the job. Both

that the letter. Ban

suggest night sallelmo

because of the question of

now the

security Officer

---

## Page 20

12

hoops had gotten infled

decided to ask no Seorge

i mait usas intended

to use Mrs Hunt ayers-

tinally before writing.

talked to tearge on 1s Upi

who said he was not

aware of O5 disapproval

and that. there. considera.=

tians here valid sange

the Katten up deno

1. and tha

the letter not be sent

24 Memo, for Dirt lee from

---

## Page 21

113

25.

this will continue until

she quitson 1/30 due to

pregnancy

Rariting and record sheet

to Sardon Mason, Sp. lost

to DOC; OOP and Mw.

carmements:

typed: "The attatched draft

column by Bill Buckley

will appear in 75.41.5.0

mega pass infusing th

---

## Page 22

14

m script. ".

hao been sent Cogy o thi

rector to il you place

biographical materia.on

Man.

Buckle

this Kiss t big the sane

person unho intialled

the box nect to "DOP"

tate to lette son

5/28/64 aund anarticle

entitled "Hate CIA Week.

"Dean Howard

Here it is. You willnot

ve had to cut fifteer

unes lecause.i

soon Nastily, Bille?

The article isa review of

The Anirsibile Governmen

---

## Page 23

15.

a Rest eat and lot.

in the RIP action sinc

962 and the fact that

anytiwas polygraphed in

closing of the RIP sirthout:

further action is in order."

27.

B Per Action dated.

Reg for assignment, OF to CF

to DOP/000, U.5. Field, CA Staff

as Ojes. Officer-CH

28 Official Superiors Reportobi

ulcer.

29 Request for Personnel Action

dated tale gastonet

(markedout. Operational

services, Office of the Chief"

"'Go tip." handuritten in)

---

## Page 24

16

as an Ops.off

30

must be filled immediately.

He will lie in PRAStatu

bana period not to

exceed 24 months."

Undated memo (Cover Slipdated.

12/8/at) from C/Investigation

been made by stunts office

(A/00/CA) dhese are requests

of very dubious largalte

en. 11/19/63. Hunt requested

a.clean

1. Todd. O his case was

Hunt requested clea

---

## Page 25

for Boaten Heindow W

dearance with severe.

restrictions was given

the case on 5/14/64 because

thebinden

Of the restric.

tians On 8/21/04 amember

al Mata office equestil

a notification of establishment

of. Official Cover backstop

dated //e/c? lists Hunts

Oct 49 - D50.50

cover history #Q5/Overt

DEC 50 - MAr 5.3

Mexico/state

MAr53=

JunE.54

HQslovert

JUNE 54-O0t 56

(11,32]

DEC 56- JUl 60

UruguAy/statz.

Jul 60-Jull5

HQS/DAC

Jul 65= Septed

contrast angle .

MENt

O/DOP

---

## Page 26

18

32. Wapecial Clearan

Ballet approval at andlo

2/25/49 lists Hunt as

"Chief. EUR/CA"

33. A dea Clean, a/o Bil: app.

dated 9/26/44 lists Hunteras

being jartal_DOP/EUR/SAS.

3.4.

a 5C a BA: dated 8/15/68

require special. clearances.

35 Routing slipes attatched tor.

this Nary"

book was not sulatted to

the Agency for ovie.

36 Memo for the Record by

C/SRS. dated.2/17/70:0.sun

may.

'one a "argiven ta"

---

## Page 27

1.9

it jublished.

3.7

Documents indicate that.

Aunts the Agency tried pies

of the man

miscript

Request for Personnel Action

dated 4/21/10 indicates

39.

into the a enable at )

employment History

---

## Page 28

GiS

PositioNi-

NOV 1949

I.O. (Editons)

3

DEC 1950

I. 0

JUN1951

I.0,

Aug 1953

OPS.OFF

Jurs 1954:

OPS.OFF(PP)

FEB 195> ARLA lOPOS OFF.

15

15

15

20

ORGAN

OPc/PP|3t6/Prograna7)

OPCILA/OPS/.cos

OPC/LA/DCOM

DOP/SS/CH, PpstAft

DOPLFE!SR-MUn/CHT

OOPlWH ItCOs

DOP/WI+-4

LOCAtiON

HQ

mexico eHy

1 l

:HQ

613-37

MONTEVIDEC

HQ

NOV 1960

HOPQS O.FF

Jun-Nov igai détailed

to

• ofifice of the DCI

NOV 61

OPSOEF.

1:5

DOP/CAS/PlANs+REstArch/Ch/ EvAl Br.

•JAN 62

111

\1

5

DOP/CAs/iOd

JU1 67

15

Aug la4

11

11

DOP/OODS/FACiliTiES/.CH,R+PSEC

DaPlDoo/ uis FizldCn,

CAstafe

Feb 65

11

ode lbf e,of the DopXoes group.

Juty 1965+58819666

= 5EP Lele

OPS:

OFF

JAN 67

Aug68

Col

NtractEMployse

15-

DiDP/WE/OPS StE

15

DOP! EUR /SPEC AC+ S+E

1'5

DOP/EUR/@p5StAfF

Api 70

Retited

H.Q

11

HQ

---

## Page 29

41

= /

Application far Retirement

signed by Hunt datess

4/14/70

Interview report dateal 4/24/201

Leason for interview is

retirement ow this date

Stabledat bottom is a slip.

of papes ubich says:

"Howard Stunt

Robert R. BuMullen + Co.

1729 H Street, NW

Vrashington, D.C. 2000k

ME 8-2526

Public RElations (holographie)"

Written in beside this is:

"frim has offices in handon

has indicated that hamishes.

indigate stan in touched

does provide

core for ee setson

Lunclear but probably

S. chott

---

## Page 30

4.2 Memo for the Record lu

pausan Haroslant to

interview @ Raymand

Racca; dated 2/14/74.

that two people tom

allanup in infor in bile

57

→ beliefied (I/Ops.

had knowledge of Hunti

uniting asturties.. Rocca

was asked specifically abort

1)any-yorm.

2) any assitance was alcked.

barfrom. CI/OpS;

3) any relationship betwee

that staff - Hunt

santan tina naments

stated that the particular.

section which he had been

---

## Page 31

2.3

most.actively.concesned in

'inage miscion of the

affice was to counter.

mainboat curently

believed to bea partef.an

effort to discredit the

Agency. Mr. Rocco feels

thatan

yassumption.that

mw.tuntwas.engoiged.in

apinion that he felt that:

in all probability an official

---

## Page 32

24

sather thananobfiaial

------..--

→......... •

.....

............. ...........

....... ...

".......

---

