# 180-10143-10300

## Page 1

180-10143-10300

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11110/03

interview

Name

Willian. Crawford

: Do. B

19 Sept 24

SSN

129-26:4954

adaress. ..

4944 Car ST, Cept 806

San Diego, la 92109.

Elephane.

714-372-2770

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

at 9:30 A.M.on 5-14-78 Staff

investigator Hazed deas interviewed

s1 william lian ford, former excitin office

concen

10143-10900

L.HD...may

as Kadio-radar operator of the atsug

Haval Airbase.

Crawford admired that he dedost.

know 1110 and never heard the name

until after the arrass cean. f V.F.IP.

.The

4-= program administered ly

the cit at Wugi did not have

their own radio: radar facilites, The

U-s planes wiliged the naval bara

communictions for oaly for take off

and landing clearance.

The Star c1 A employers at Clige

had no clander toon acting other then

the U.2 progra..

all Ruma

---

## Page 2

2.

TOLOFELT

intelliger and

were handled

The cover slow

inge was that it was we ple

monitor radio acting in the almachine

In fact the plane actually how equipson

installed 8o measure radio activi

To facilitiate the cover story, to

Oswald would have

seen The 21-2

Take off and had at the base howeve:

he would have no other information.

Radar operators would not. be able

trace the Mis at flyies. The

plame would lake off in the oppasite

direction.

The 1:2 would.

fly to a slaging area (Pershar, Pakistan.

Ryore going into the flight plan for

The over flight towere the Russian

were aware of the over. flights from

the begining of the program

1955.

the Kussian

ded not l

ave the abilit

"To shoot the t-s down af the altitude

"of the r2 flight.

The pilots would resigs foom their

respective service units with the

understand ins that of the completion

---

## Page 3

3,

11110705

and at a rank compadafl....

thia contemporaries. all

program imployees were paid. ly

cin...

Generalmncintance.om

the U-t was provided of Along;

howven

en mayor over hand was

made onl

in. ч.s.

Althoug the program.. was

ducted and administered by the

Mixon foon the air force.

The program was terminatio

ma 1960.

---

## Page 4

Hard:

Can you all the flowing

tatement?

Crawford said that

had to been "asociated with

fic, world've thon about it.

sand of his epsistance

11110205

---

