# 180-10144-10364

## Page 1

180-10144-10364

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

35

PISRAETES

T

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Ropradea

OSCAR CONTRERAS

One March: 16, 1961, p the Cruis..

mory stile

cale in Range Range the amera Crand we Tangier, tench pied

sat he had a norter the alla it met see Saey Sorrid

idiosettom

agents to sting

Oswald's desire to travel to Cuba and the Embassy's nellingner.

to grant hime a visa. (ibid) When B.I Reyle asked the Nih

I generio. to cable the story to the Amercar. Inbray,, the deconed

plating that he fraced booing he t bid the syrto england that y

subsequent to the assassination, to had told his estor who had

assesed live not to ront the ig the norter granted If Zugh

germission. to cable the story to the Amercar. Embassy where Ragle

Da Day 11, 1942,

st A letter for B. J lugh to.. the. State

Degatment fallenit ditals f the nortin story, was fund.

I Letter to Weakey D. Booles, Chef f Metican politeal affans, Office

f. Hesian affaiis, Degatment f State fume: B.J. Buyl, Americin Crusal,

Tangie, 5/1167; WX 7241 entry * 597, P.I4, CIAM 2417 The reporti.

alleged that he and some filter students had met tee taurey Oswald

as they oxited the cneclub at the Cocuela de 7 liar fun (Schard f

Phalaging) at the Natinead Outremenes Urversity f Westo. (168) O swad

told the ginge that he had give to the Natured Arturous Universit,

180

10144-10364

---

## Page 2

fum Calfrica a

TP

with the dudents the rest f that day and evering, as well as the

allowing day, (ibs) Oowald as a strange and interested interduel wot

got very little spanish. (rbid)

an

, The state Department forwarded a copy f Regle's litter to

the cital lee Agreg. on

, I the commattin conil not deters.

I Degated frome the Director to Mesics City, 6147, HMMW. 1555 7j WX-7241

Entry # 616, p.117, 61A$ 144I He CIA Healquarters consedered Rugle's

rget" the frat fiece f anbatilie infor abut damade's paynive

est Mexico

serice the assassinatin, I bid) Crisegmently, Hang tie.

That though they understard the soice's relectance to became terried

"The fact remains that this info cannot cretinue to he withheld or

concealed E bid) that waders inctunted the beer City startin to list the

(.b.o) The freel sentence f the despatch;." It in air hage that the foot,

tained thingh these sterens will hily to confine that several f

banian i allegalers abnet involument f anita Caster Calama, CIA, Ete are

false", explaned the Genteel frtellagine Agency's mistines. fr

gurewing the story.

On June 29,1967, the Mercer. City Statin called Headwackes that

a staten; ffices had gove to Tanpies where he had intereewed.

Ruglessource, Oscar Conteras. ICable Grone Weies Katy. to the Decector, Here 195.

639/27; WX-7281 entiry $ 622, p.118, CIA # 745) The Cable ryerted that

Contreras was a reporter for ElSol Carvegager, The Sun) in Tamgico; was

cica 30 years old; maisied with thee childer; studied. Law at

The Natial Anthems tiert fRico fere 1960 to 1769; labraged to a

---

## Page 3

I Cable From Mexico City to the Drector, Here 1950, s/00; WX-1201, entery bii

p. 118, CIA # 145]

Canters the the heir cy staton fecal thit the and fire?

had made inquinces on the UNAM campus about per-Cabar ginges and

had here die ted to his ging. Caterns upted that i going intent.

strated savald fear seen ont

he was a "CIt peovication, (ted)

they allowed Oswald them that day and right, and part ff th

freeing day, (ibis) 71 ...

Enteria stated that saall marty mantimid arzansmitor that pist

mphasizing that he had to get to Cala In abditin Osald"sthetch no

rossual tendencies while he was with the grange (l6d)

When Cater it ago t identity the ther four

intrides, he refused to reveat their names because he feares

that infuming on them miget interger his family?

whethe

The

On fly 4,1907, steakqwaters called the seeker City Stalini

that Contreras story-should be explored. Is the fullest ever though..

he see have fabricted it. I Calle from the Dicent to Mercico Cy, '4/6s,

DIR 16823, Wx-7241, Cutey 626, pil9, CIA 146) Headguarters.

suggasted that the Iod haulls the story: Cibid) the frlemeng day,

Julys,1967, the weeken aty staten cabled that it pufered turning

Cutieras

over to the Hexican authouties and the ? @d Ilable Prom

Mexico Cly. to the Director, 75/07, Work 1991; W2-2941, Entry 627, 2119, CIA 14)

The same day, the chiff staten informed the Legat If Carteras

---

## Page 4

stony, het ashed hime nit te take. ainy actrins wachnut grmerudly

cmsublung the Nlexico City Stalire, I Hemo tu Jegat, '1s/47 frane chef i8

Stehoi ; Ve-7711, entey wdifi"2 1 244

8a (nenon gls 101 t "to" unte t memo.

h ois the lennh,

schel a Estorcau Jstade f Orcar Contrerão fole.. ENtemo from.

GakB JRe OAGA CoNtuaa Tlie/; WX124tetng5654-p.120,G.A749].

accouding to the mant, sh roy breee appese ire the UNAit law

pehrel Mende, Docar Gsitcino d adegre, Da 3/1/3 in Einded

Vaitoria, Tessaulegias.. Ihe mimo also sepiled dhat a neuspages

article appearisg in Excelain'" listid a Oscai Crtea a a

pegus 2-a p4te ths Blogne Eatednntl Peshtnes wtat hat ber...

formad mil -1961. I Ihe Lealene f the groig were Vretor Wanuel Bacele, Canle,

Aulale, tug Castro Granda, Giloneo, Tenoso Obanse, foze Guenen Gnerund, Carlre

Jutey Pojedo, Damal Nrla, Breon Soteg, Meindere, Hereits, Set .

Arhar Gerera, - Peder Sarerg Cegeta, illerte Cusen, Jers EduachiParal, Jua.

Sallanca, Mante Rages Baussadel, Vieente Iuillarios,, Rabcher. Zeina day

Dorado + Jaaua Ochosf The messeo speenlile d that Cachthr perbably

piquend the guitest as a frnstman to gartird the real bak f He

ging.:.c.b.d)g

stitoin

Healzuaiter,

the ntecaies Cly cabled the ienfrrnntiro to His. the ficwiting

Lay. juns "/67 ( Dispetch from Mexieo Sity to Deeetn, HMMA 32Y.9?,

2/11/47; We-72y1, Enty '635, p.121, (1A #-748).

IThare is m fenetete fsint

imndi the.... Oswal'""" fule

cncemeing Gratitire

The CIA es gta t0 n

tin]..

Silillgiie Ggeuiy as ouguendly iont

e noment fona the lianie chee

atlegastome booorrde it

Contietes mught be helgiful

in pumiig yor Sileans Dusticet- aillvore

Canto at

che thne Wãco cndudir

tnit infeminty ant

t mcdga 8 ta

1212

Sle gilunes

---

## Page 5

El Cubana Airlines

I the sent died Does n i thi

on Bork If f the fined report on the geformance of

The sellge ice arices in the investyation f the Jon 7. Kenel,

Assassinate the ciA is antaged fri ito apparent farlero to

fully pursue leads surinding the arzaisinatin. f President Kerriedig

wd them to fully ryot to the bairse Commussion the sault f the.

stigation. they did wade take..

One such lead discussed was a ryatel five-hour

delay.:(6.00.PM.EST.t011.00.PMEST/gaChhand.flght.frme.Nefiis

22, 19u3.I I the suedyation f the assarnation fifthe I Keenedy:

Permanes f the Dutillyence Agercies, Forle I; Sclee Concreter to Studi

Enemental Ogerations, 4/23/16, 7.300 Saute Regent No. QU-7557 The most

intregning aspect. f the SSC. accrunt swordred the alleged delay

fa caland flight to awart the arrival at 10:30 PM ESt a a

quate turn-engined arcraft. The arcraft digested an

prudentifired

paranges who boarded the Cabana accuft inthent customs

cumends... connected to that lead Is dile none whather the ford,

which were krom by the cid alont the 'llege Illary vacanted

fuche surestigatini and what investigatin as rendertabers; b)

whether any I that infirmation was reported to the Warrer Crimson

and. (6) hecker the kron fasts seggited any murderement in the

nature. I john 7. Kennely

?the cit on this lead.

to be done

---

## Page 6

Anthe GHA 1977 buspector Hereral regret, the CIA

attentil to refile serecal. "maceuracies"

pit. the senate. Ailail

• Gruban Gilined fleght.

That.ww.apparertely.the.owlyfillor.cop.bgt1@@gably.or.the

lead after the pervale regent appried.

The tope iton Hershal's negent snected the statement

in the senate not that the"Carteal hitill ganes Ogereng

had no informatin underating that a freeing investigationi

was. conducted. to dettomance the she tt, f the granger

and lak no frithee information or the farger, sand

so explaiton for why a followng investagnline alon ust.

sandwetid

ele alert f the Pesosalom f Preeche it John 1. Kennedy

Pefromance f the titllege agenese; BarkI, Select Commitled to Stardy

Gressertal Opialines: 4123/96-930 Sinate Resit No 94.755) The

Inspader beneel lgnt sylamed that the belecan authorlic.

In additers,

the hunger tered Signit stated that the Contenl tilelegines.

table reynts to Headgwäders Tibidp"] There. was one

CA surellance than (tER) that act ario and

anyt inman end in hing

fight mangie cibid the mee

meet had

we tan at the anget which gricked the

transcripto f creates tif the Calate arlin for and

the Mexican... Aiignt... Cintert Office Cib.dp.11)

I Enemies] ramaite

I43

---

## Page 7

The Ltenyor transcripts record a series of

discussions about the

the Status of the November 22, 1963.

мінеч

cubana Slighter when it arrived and when it departed.

The transcripts show that the flight arrived at the

airport at 1620 hours (All times used will be Mexico

City time to avoid confusion) Mexico City time. (HSCA

Staff review of Novender 22, 1963 (reNvox transeripts)

priox to the arrival of the aircraft, one person

stated that the aircraft was due at 1630 hours and

"it vill go" at 1730, suggesting a guick turnaround

that would have reduced nogaips and loading time,

as well as servicing to a relatively short period

(ibia) However,

the key report on the departure of

!: 21".

the

aircraft

Was a statement at: 2040 hours that

the aircraft had departed for Cuba five minutes

earlier, 1.er 2035 hours. (ibia)

"Back on the cline, on the indy corde

that episted in the ciA fills on the assinal and departure

3 the indone flight, Chet nor i Menin suitione

fontade the anone a departure flight f the Mer. 22, 1963

alone flight tiCh] the 26 concluded that there were

magn tiffines betwen that in the series Sled Committee

rigated the

the lyde lage calans flight wat the kno

fants.

The close fliget we me the ground in lie City for.

a tobile f fres hones and abet ten ristles. It was sot

Agencies, Back I, Siste Select Emmitle to Study Gossmental Operatino,

4/23/26, pose Sente Mllynce Rgnt No. 94.7851 the Cabare flight

departed it 2035 hous Hesis Cty Kinse, IS inmates ahead fe

the alliged aral at alte fa finte flight with a secret

asing Cibidpi3e) The 2035 departune

differed withe the donate

tillence Crimitle. Rignt that the Chane flight. deganted it 2200 ho

(16id p:31).

2M/I

---

## Page 8

see steadild that in def the sillon

sing a ste Mexican aignt is back the cite

He doskift that the alliged actoty inching the finishe

girl rige and sect El have go untie?

Pressilly, the discregists pointed sit by the tingeter

best are meant to eglar the fost that the SIA did sitt

Here might has bien some crosim betwei the delaged

reged the 197 snapeeth toured nput explain that the

aerydad anne the lick as far an it was.

I accic to furder infinets abut the alleged diliged flyet t.

w, that just dies not

aflas either the failure f the CLA t tile more seronly. the

suspicions of the sniced, and most inputantly, to spent wtilever

formation it had to the barer Comessin, The attents f the

attempts.

get a de to gate the value f He information pre

a the dentfe asga to not domines the apposent seglyue

the agency in se

oly gushing the infristom as it was received. the

CIA is not t he failled for the stength f its intelligence gathering,.

but rather fr the gogement which kpt that intelligence fume the

Wann

sted to jai on the straigh f

sail, that hire f infusiation]

Pengte what in ame. kron int the alliged dhas? the

ninte

and patify tof that these pace

to the hone

did mat

34/3

---

## Page 9

which coll shet light on cohes

wisi sister appearing

The Committed has documentil,

stances intere the clA

lil to frege passing fination to the Wasser Co

remiusion

face pedes that injong

---

