(180-10131-10338|

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: = 180-10131-10338
RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014737
Document Information
HSCA
[Restricted]
TITLE
DATE: 05/19/1978
PAGES: 71
SUBJECTS :
CIA, FILES
CIA, METHODOLOGY
[Restricted]
OSWALD. LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO
MEXICO.
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD, RETURN TO US
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/13/1997
OPENING CRITERIA : et
COMMENTS : Box 8

vl

HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 1


Stenographic Transcript Of

HEARINGS

Before The

John F. Kennedy Subcommittee
of the

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

DEPOSITION OF ELSIE I. SCALETTI

Washington,D.c.
May 19,.1978

Alderson Reporting Company, Inc.
Official Reporters

300 Seventh St., S. W. Washington, D. C.

554-2345

HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 2


al
el
al
tal
el
zl
ol
ol

oO
i]
~
baal
o
=

Scaletti

fu
3.
ral
i
zs
H
&
n
is
aH

Elsie I.

AW 50955 Doota:42277223 Page 3



LAFRANCE:msl

oO

r

HW 50955 DocId:

ur Ski

iui

4
i
i
|
‘I

ASSASSINATION OF JOHN F. KENNEY

Friday, May 19, 1978

U. S. House of Representatives,

John F. Kennedy Subcommittee of

Washington, D. C.
| Deposition of:
i ELSIE I. SCALETTI .
called for examination bt staff counsel for the subcommittee,
| pursuant to notice, in the offices of House Annex II, Room 3370

Second and D Streets, S. W., Washington, D. C., beginning at

i} 1:15 o'clock p.m., before Albert Joseph LaFrance, a. Notary
Public in and for the District of. Columbia, when were present
on behalf of the respective parties:

For the Subcommittee:

MICHAEL GOLDSMITH, ESQ., Staff Counsel

For the Deponent:

(There was no representation by counsel)

001710

il

i Page 4 Th e q cP el

ergy
dma

am

Select Committee on Assassination


ne

i
i
|
'

Whereupon,
|

a

ELSIE I. SCALETTI,

having first been duly sworn, was examined and testified as

re

as

follows: j
bd Mr. Goldsmith. Would you please state your name and
di | occupation for the record? j
7 : Mrs. Scaletti. My name is Elsie I. Scaletti and I am
i i presently a housewife. i
7 i Mr. Goldsmith. Is the name Scaletti your true name?
n ! Mrs. Scaletti. No, it is not. It is a registered i

pseudonym.

Mr. Goldsmith. With whom is it registered?

Mrs. Scaletti.. With the Central Intelligence Agency.

Mr. Goldsmith. In what state do you live?

i
{
te Mrs. Scaletti. Virginia.
i
7 Mr. Goldsmith. Are you here testifying today voluntarily?
‘a i Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.
9 Mr. Goldsmith. You are testifying without subpoéna? |
29 | Mrs. Scaletti. Right. ‘
21 | Mx. Goldsmith. Have you received a copy of the Cong iteee:
i
] ‘ 22 Rules and the supporting resolution?
a "3 i Mrs. Scaletti. Yes, I have.
e@ a4 | Mr. Goldsmith. Have you had an opportunity to read Rule |
i i

Number 4?

O01711

i = 3 g F me
MW 50955 Docta:42277223 Page 5 | 0 P a ah R ft 7



ry

ue

o

HW 50955 DocIa

{
i
| Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. i
|

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand Rule Number 4?

Mrss Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand you have a right to

counsel?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you waive that right?

i Mrs. Scaletti. At this meeting I waive that right. '
Mr. Goldsmith. If at any time you decide you should Like |
to have counsel, please indicate that. :
Mrs. Scaletti. Right. |

|

Mr. Goldsmith. Under the Committee Rules you have a right

to receive a copy of the transcript of the deposition statement |
| that you are going to be giving today. However, by virtue of

\
H

the agreement that has been worked out between the Committee and

|
i the Central Intelligence Agency, the Agency has asked us to
i
i

request witnesses who were formerly employed with the Agency

or presently employed with the Agency ‘to waive the right

|| actually to receive the transcript.
i

i We would naturally be willing to give you an opportunity

|
to review the transcript for accuracy. However, in terms of i
'
!
i

|
i actually giving you the transcript to keep we would like to ask
| you to waive that right.

i

|
i Mrs. Scaletti. I waive my right to keep t acopy. I would
i

i like to review a final transcript.

i 001712

dhonm ome TOP SECRET.


fie Aka wee 4
aoa DERE: i

1 Mr. Goldsmith. No problem and you will be notified when

n>

the transcript has been prepared: Have you had a chance to
|

review the letter dated March 25, 1978 from the Acting Director:

| of Central Intelligence Carlucci to. the Chairman of this

uo

| committee?
{
i

i
\
i

Mrs. Scaletti. I have.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you understand. that letter?

Mrs. Scaletti. I do. |
|

Mr..Goldsmith. For the record that correspondence with
: i
JFK Exhibit 94 at the JFK hearings. |

the Committee and I am authorized by the Committee to take your
|

|

j

i

|

i My name is Michael Goldsmith. I am staff counsel with
i

!

|

y

i

iH statement for this deposition. For backgroun purposes I would

|
|
like to tell you what the mandate of the Committee is and that |

‘- | is to investigate the assassination of President Kennedy,

18 specifically who did it, was there a conspiracy, and also to ;

i |
7 evaluate the performance of the investigative agencies cues |
13°] ing the FBI and the CIA. A
19

Finally, another aspect of the mandate of the Committee

is to evaluate the work done by the Warren Commission. Do you

i
|

understand that?

1
{

Mrs. Scaletti. I do.

Mr. Goldsmith. Prior to coming here today have you had

e ie | any discussion with any present or former employee of the CIA
if |

concerning your testimony that you are about to give today?

we sin. ecralezvves — Te P SECRET 001713 | |

i
i
q


oe

H
i

i
i
i

|

a
'
i

{ ‘

7

i
i
i
!

comes
&
bre:

Ais” NBL Re a
wi SLLALA 5 il

Mrs. Scaletti. I went to the Agency, to the office of

General Counsel to find out what my rights were, what restric-
tions were placed on me. They told me I had no restrictions
placed on me and I could have counsel with me today if I

wanted to.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did anyone in the Agency discuss the
substance of the testimony with you? \

Mrs. Scaletti. No. I discussed with him only -- they '
i

did not discuss with me what I should say or in any way I could
say it.
Mr. Goldsmith. Have you spoken to ant present or former

Agency employee about testimony or statements which those

persons have given to the Committee in the past?
Mrs. Scaletti.. No, I have not.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it fair to say that other than the

interview you had previously with staff members of this Commit=

tee you have not discussed the substance of this case with any-

one?

Mrs.: Scaletti. No. Just OGC and OLC about my rights

Geeta ada = i

and procedures, et cetera. i
Mr. Goldsmith. Mrs. Scaletti, for how many years were

you employed by the CIA?

Mrs. Scaletti. Twenty-six plus.
Mr. Goldsmith. What years were you working for the
Agency?

001714

See ee |


HW 50955

uw

o

9

Docla:

Mrs. Scaletti.

| Mr. Goldsmith.

Mrs. Scaletti.

IA.

Mr. Goldsmith.

W Mrs. Scaletti.

i Mr. Goldsmith.

Mrs. Scaletti.

: Mr. Goldsmith.
branch?
| Mrs. Scaletti-
Mr. Goldsmith.
Hemisphere?
Mrs. Scaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith,

i
i
i
\
i}
i

Mrs. Scaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith.

Mrs. Scaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith.

Mrs. Scaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith.

: Ps
192277223 Page 9

positions that you held during that 26 years?

Branch Chief. I went all the positions in between, reports,

Station, Branch Chief,

1951 to -- I retired December 1977.

Would you give us a brief summary of the

I started.as a typist and I retired as a

IA stands for what?
Intelligence Assistant officer, Chief of
Deputy Branch Chief.

Where were you Cheif of Station?

officer dealing with agents in the field?

,
When you retired you vere Chief of which

It was over

One of the branches in the Western

A Western Hemisphere Branch.

Did you ever have any experience as a cas

Yes.
In 1963 where were you assigned?
Washington.

What was your responsibility at that time?

Sp issessosovexsoasisss senna ented poxssssassssstaaaan faneeaer-—sassaaaap

I was om the Mexican desk or branch.

My understanding is that a desk would be

001715 |

a |

S&S _
3
todd


fUP sib)

|
Hl 4 ‘

| a subunit of a branch, is that correct?
\

i

i

ry

Mrs. Scaletti. Right.

eo

Mr. Goldsmith. So if you were assigned to the Mexican

i, desk that would be one of the desks in the Western Hemisphere,

in a particular Western Hemisphere Branch?

Mrs. Scaletti. Right, unless it became a branch all by

itself. This is just internal organization, reo-ganization. i

o

It does not mean anything.

Mr. Goldsmith. In 1963 how many years had you been work-

id j ing on:the: Mexican Desk?
VW | Mrs. Scaletti. I don't remember unless I get=my chron-
12 clogy but I would say at least, to be honest, I don't remember

ai * pub alscadzssbasbtsigaqasassabiseteaiasasajasteetaeasigaasin

| but I think it is at least three or four. I just don't remember
H |

p...

Mr. Goldsmith. How many years did you stay at the Mexica

jg | Disk. before going on to your next assignment?

6 § Mrs. Scaletti. From there I went to Mexico in 1967.

Mr. Goldsmith. In 1967 you actually went to Mexico?

3 | Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. |
7 Mr. Goldsmith. As a case officer?
Al Mrs. Scaletti. No, as an IA. :
2 Mr. Goldsmith. During that time did you work under Win

22. | Scott?

Mrs. Scaletti. In Mexico?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

Mrs. Scaletti. In Mexico, yes.

001716

HW 50955 ee Page 10 Th P 4 rf a i T


nocg
e
ra
=

[tas Bs
co

Mr.. Goldsmith. While in Mexico did you ever work with
Ann Goodpasture?

Mrs. Scaletti. We worked with everybody in the station.

~

So, indirectly but not directly under her.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what here responsibilities

61 were at the station?

Mrs. Scaletti. Broadly. She assisted Mr. Scott and

L

o

| handled some of his cases. Ireally don't know what she had ful

responsibility for. I know she assisted him on some of the

i

101 things that he handled.

Mi Mr. Goldsmith. Is it fair to say she was his right hand

12 i person? |
i

i e i3 i Mrs. Scaletti. Not exactly because his right hand person
|

would have been the Deputy Chief of Station. Hl
| !
is | Mr. Goldsmith. As a formal matter that would certainly i
H : |
161 have been the case. Informally did he rely on her a great deal?
i

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes, but I wouldn't say that she was his |

really right hand person. He did depend upon her but not for
everything.
Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether she had any responsi-;

bility for the surveillance operations in Mexico City?

re
Bn

Mrs. Scaletti. That I can't remember. There was a lot

13 of coordination. She would do some of the work but I don't

24 | think she ran them and I don't remember she had the responsi-

bility for them.

Ht { ae
i E
HW 50955 DoclId:32277223 Page 11 A) i ag

001717,

gry
moos]


rs

i
iS

nm
i

HW 50955 DocId:

a B
‘ a
i

32277223 Page 12

emus
&

Mr. Goldsmith. Turning back to 1963 again, what were
the general responsibilities of the Mexican Desk?

Mrs. Scaletti. To support the Mexico City station and
to handle things at headquarters concerning Mexico and the
Mexico City station.

Mr. Goldsmith. Were the responsibilities of the Mexican
Desk solely administrative and procedureal in nature?

Mrs. Scaletti. The Mexican Desk was handled like any
other desk. If you say administrative and procedural includes
budget work, name traces, handling requests from Congress and
that is administrative and procedureal. But in my terminology
administrative can.mean support and administration, which is
a.completely different thing, like personnel or logistics, no.

Procedural, if you=mean day to day answering of cables,
yes. If you would like to elaborate on administrative or
procedural I might be able to --

Mr. Goldsmith. Could you give me a brief laundry list
of the types of work that the Mexican Desk did when it gave
support to the Mexico City station?

Mrs. Scaletti. In intelligence reporting it would
process the report, positive intelligence reports, It would
do the counterintelligence dissemination, if it were required,
to the FBI, et cetera. It would handle budget and submit
projects requesting money in support of the station's opera*

tions. It would do name traces. Itwould handle requests from

P SEGRET i 001718

Ca

a



HW 50955

ry

on

re

Docla:

PUT OLOGY 10

Congress, requests from other government agencies. We would

| write any memo that was required in response to a request from

anybody, from the next echelon all the way up to the Director.
We would be responsible for replying to matters having to do

with Mexico per se.or operations in Mexico. Does that clarify

it?

| Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, that is helpful. |
4 Did the work involve at any time substantive analytical
work? In other words, you would get information from the
Mexico City station and you would then have to analyze that

; information and perhaps make a policy decision on it?

Mrs. Scaletti. No. At that time we are not analysts,

i we only process raw material. Occasionally they might ask you
i for a memo, like if there is an election, but we do not do

il

| analytical work. We only put down facts that havecbeen
reported. We do not do analysis. We do correlation. That is
| a much better word.

1

d Mr. Goldsmith. What about actualy decisions? If Mexico

City station communicated with the Mexican Desk and. asked for

a decision to be made, would the Mexican Desk make the decision
or would someone else in the Branch make the decision?

i Mrs. Scaletti. I think we misunderstood each other. Whe
you say policy, analytical, or intelligence, no, we did not

analyze intelligence. We only correlated. By policy you mean

operational policy?

hom oma TOF OEGRET

1
|
|
|
1
|
|
|
1
i
i
i
|
i
|
|
!
is
i
i
i
!


a

o

10

HW 50955 DoclId:

il

32277223 Page 14 T G r

IMT SELREL | =

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.
Mrs. Scaletti. On operations a lot is left to the |
station to have a certain amount of autonomy. We had almost i

no authority to make final decisions.

We could prepare a meassage with a recommendation and
then it would go for release or signature and at the time it
was released or: the-memo:signed, that person would be making
the policy. Is that clear?

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. That person would be someone higher
up above the Mexican Desk? |

!

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. How many people worked on the Mexican

Desk?

Mrs. Scaletti. I cannot.remember. I have been itrying
to think. I cannot recall. I cannot remember where we were

sitting.

Mr. Goldsmith. It was not just you?

Mrs. Scaletti. I would say two or more, between two and

15.

Mr. Goldsmith. When-you say two or more are you thinking
in vee of case officers only or we you thinking in terms of '
case officers, secretarial help, administrative help?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. I know where were at least two of
us because if I wasn't..there, there had to be somebody else

there.

001720

rung


a

HW 50955 DocIa:

i
if
i
i

4
4
i
fl

32277223 Page 15

ie)

gx

x
ths
Be

re

[ies

w
8

Cun

te
&
Be

Mr. Goldsmith. You say two or more, you are not making
any distinction between case officer and other --

Mrs. Scaletti. Don't stick me with the two. I-.know I
was there and somebody else must have been there. But how

many people were there -- there are tables of organization

available. Honestly, I cannot remember, If I could visualize
what room Iwas sitting in then maybe I could try to think who
Sat*»where but I cannot visualize where I was sitting at that

time.

Mr..Goldsmith. How many years did you work at. the

Mexican Desk?

Mrs. Scaletti. We worked all over. Your table of
organization changes every four months or six-months. Do you
understand? You said at that time? YOu said.1963? |
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes.

|

when there were 15 and I can remember times when Iwas practically

Mrs. Scaletti. I can remember. at times temperararily
alone. |
Mr. Goldsmith. Who would have been your tees

supervisor in 1963?
Mrs. Scaletti. I cannot remember who the Desk Chief was
Mr. Goldsmith. Would the Desk Chief have been someone
different from the Branch Chief?

i
|
if
|
i
i
{
|
i
i
i
H
!

Mrs, Scaletti. Yes, unless there was no Desk Chief. I

mean, if there was a vacancy.

rere 001721
TOP SEGRET |

g


aur

so

x

eae

poe

ae)

a

ae
ws
es

tome

&

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you ever work. with Hack Whitten?

ne

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall when you worked with him?

a

Mrs. Scaletti. The Years I don't remember. Itws a

ry

matter of a couple of years I believe.

ty Mr. Goldsmith. Do you think that you worked with Whitten)
| in 1963?
Mrs. Scaletti. I know I did because I saw a message.

i
i
1
i
Mx. Goldsmith. In other words, you saw a cable of some
i
kind that had his name on it? |

i

t

Mrs. Scaletti. It was mine.

Mr. Goldsmith. As a case officer working on the Mexican

Desk would you have been aware in 1963 of the various surveil-

lance operations that were in effect in Mexico City, being

conducted by the Mexico City station?

Mrs. Scaletti. Not the surveillances but the team.

Mr. Goldsmith. Could you elaborate a »bit on that?

H
i
i} |
in
18 i Mrs. Scaletti. I mean from the budget standpoint and fro
i
the clearance of agents, I knew that there were so many teams :
i
with about so many people, or basically what they did. But we ;
|
were not privy necessarily to what those people did every day.
|
\
! Mr. Goldsmith. Did you know that there was a wire tap
|
i

| operation against the Cuban and Soviet Embassies and Consulates?
i |

i
| Mrs. Scaletti. Right.
i

' Mr. Goldsmith. Did you also know there was a photo

i
t
t

i 901722

oe Ee


14

surveillance operation against the Cuban Embassy and Consulate
6 : | and Soviet Embassy and Consulate?

Mrs. Scaletti. Right.

Mr. Goldsmith. If we can just clarify your last answer, |

you were aware of the fact of these surveillance operations.

' Could you explain to me again what you were not aware of?
Mrs. Scaletti. You know from your budget preparations
* ‘ and from your handling of veryday traffic that you have certain

operations. Like,vyou know. you have a surveillance team, That

a

is a project. You need so much money... You have so many people,
You have so many cars because they come in and request permis-
ig » sion to buy a car or to sell a car. Or you know, you have a

(] oar clearance fro so-many° people or this man quit, you know,

personnel.“
You know basically from the quarterly reporting or the
{ reporting that is required under the-regulations, the general
| target, because you have to get higher approval to hire a team

to do such and such.

But I do not know that on Monday, June 2nd, two cars went
! to this house and looked at this window and Thursday -- do you
3] | understand?
Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. You would not be aware of the

operational information being picked up by the surveillance

operation?

aa Mrs. Scaletti. Unless the field bothered to tell you,

001723

HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 17


oo on

as

wu

x

3

no
rs

HW 50955 — Page 18 TA eC EN cf a f T eed

15.

because they wanted to find something out or check something
out.

Mx. Goldsmith. How often would the field contact you

with regard to this types of situation?

Mrs.Scdletti. You could go a month or two without

having any, or longer.
Mr. Goldsmith. Would your answer to that question be
that you did not frequently get information from the Mexico

City station pertaining to the operational aspects of the

surveillance teams' work?
Mrs. Scaletti. Correct.

Mr. Goldsmith. When you did get this kind of information

would it come to headquarters from the Mexico City station by
means of a dispatch or cable?

|

Mrs. Scaletti. Either one.
i
Mr. Goldsmith. How would it be determined which form
of communication would be used to contact headquarters?
Mrs. Scaletti. The priority and if a reply was requested|,
i
because if you neéd an answer in order to do some more investi~
gation you haa better send a cable or you are never going to

hear. If it is a dispatch it could take maybe a month by the
time you got to the desk and by the time you answer it it would
take a month.

Mr. Goldsmith. During the summer months, and I am talking

|
generally not just 1963, but during the summer months, at least

/


eescteoeeetaaae

ro

oo

so

HW 50955 DocId:

i
i
|
j
j
i

j

iur SEGRE § 16

of the years you were at the Mexico Desk, do you recall
whether there were frequent communincations from the Mexico
City station reporting the fact of Americans visiting the
Embassy or Consulate of a communist country? E

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't recall any difference between
summer months and any other months.

Mr. Goldsmith... When did Lee Harvey Oswald first come
to yaur attention?

Mrs. Scaletti. When the station sent a cable asking
for a name trace, a routine name trace.

Mr. Goldsmith. At that time how important was the fact
of Oswald's contract considered?

Mrs. Scaletti. It was a routine name trace.

Mr. Goldsmith. So at that time it was not considered at
all unusual. Is that what you are saying?

Mrs. Scaletti.. Yes. We handled it as any normal --
because we would have gotten similar name traces on other
Americans who might have been identified as going to the Soviet:
It was a routine way of handling that for the Bureau.

Mr. Goldsmith. So even though the fact that Americans
did not frequently contact the Soviet Embassy or the Cuban
Embassy, when they did and Mexico City station communicated wit
headquarters the fact of that contact, was supposed to be

considered routine?

i

p
|
if

Mrs. Scaletti. Right. It was still handled in a routine

TOP SEGRET |


HW 50955

ie

4

wD

Docla:

17

es
ont
oe
e.
rm

manner.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would the fact that a cable had bee nused
to communicate with headquarters indicate that the contact was
considered to bé important?

Mrs. Scaletti. No. As I told you previously, and I will

repeat, you generally would use a cable for a name trace for
the expediency so that you could get a reply back within a
j reasonable working period. j
Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take a look at that cable now. T
1 would like to show you what has been marked CIA Number 177,

and when «Iv refer to these numbers, I am referring to the

red numbers at the bottom of the page. The Agency has been

kind enough to make these documents available to the Committee
at our officese.- For purposes of allowing athe Agency to make

sure that each document is properly returned to it, the Agency

has numbered each piece of paper. I use those numbers for
the purpose of the deposition for our record, Would you :
i please examine CIA Number 177?

Mrs. Scaletti. Is that the cable that first brought Lee’
|

Oswald to your attention?
'

Mrs. Scaletti. I presume so. I can't remember that far;

i back,

Mr. Goldsmith. What is the date of that cable?

Mrs. Scaletti. 19 October 1963.

Mr. Goldsmith. Is it 19 or 9?

ei wears 001726

a



a

So that is 9.

Mrs. Scaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith.
i Mrs. Scaletti.

| pertinent, is it?

i Mr. Goldsmith.
Mrs. Scaletti.
Mr. Goldsmith.

Mrs. Scaletti.

brim
qs

a4 r

eed

Greenwich.

[pr
oe,

4
ad

19 October 1963.

What time?

Zulu time.

What is zulu time?

18

That is the way I read

Let us take a look at CIA Number 178.
It could be 9. That is not really that

Here it is 9 because here is the zulu time.

I believe that is what it is.

Nit vero nine zero four three would be the 9th of 043 zed.

with that.

7 | Mr. Goldsmith.

telegram --

e 24 Mrs. Scaletti.

this one?

4
4

t
HW 50955 Docld: 42277223 Page 21

Mr. Goldsmith.

Boi Mr. Goldsmith. -

Mrs. Scaletti.

Mrs.sScaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith,

Mrs. Scaletti. 4.

TgP 8

pang

I believe.

Number
cable was sent on 8 October,
73} would have received it bythe

Right.

What is zed?

That refers to Greenwich time?

But you can check the date

I was going to say if we take a look at

CIA Number 178, that is the Mexico City station copy of that

I am sorry, what number?

178. ‘That indicates that ‘the

so it is likely that headquarters ;

Sth.

What am I supposed to do with

RET

001727


HW 50955

re

3

a

Docia

1
i
|

4

219

ry
eae:

Mr. Goldsmith. Just wait for me to ask you a question.
Would you please read that cable?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. My first question is does that cable

contain a request for a name trace?

Mrs. Scaletti. No, unless I really goofed reading.

Mr. Goldsmith. Please reread it. i

Mrs. Scaletti. No, it requests no specific name trace. i

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, in the basence of.a name trace hwat
significance would you attach to the cable in light of the fact|
that it was sent by means of cable instead of dispatch?

Mrs. Scaletti. That they were informing headquarters ont
a possible American, because even though it says American male,
when you check them out it is not an American male. They
alerted headquarters to the fact that a possible American had
contacted the Soviet Embassy.

Mrz Goldsmith. I understand that is what they are inform!
ing headquarters about. “My question is, does the fact that
they used the cable suggest that Mexico City station considered
this to be a ‘priority item?

Mrs. Scaletti. I really cannot read into their thinking.
As a spot thing like this I probably would have reported it

by cable. I can't really comment on that.

siaahieytebdal net aindfastataappsiytn as geniataniiy— lan) tastgsspeuninajrantronionO

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand. The reason I asked the

question is because earlier, my recollection of the statement

i

2277223 Page 22 T if p 8 re R # 7 901728 i


20

: i
was that you said a cable would be used for something that was
priority item or if there was a request for a name trace. “

i
There was no request’ for a name trace there. I am wondering if|”

o

this fits into the other category, a priority item?

n

we

Mrs. Scaletti. Not nrecessarily. We did an awful lot |

| of cabling out of Mexico of these spot things instead of writing

on

full dispatches. This is a lot quicker and really less expen-

sive to do than in a cable. A lot of this is just how you react
i
|
i
1
|

and how you handle things.

to 4 There is no regulation which says what has to be done

i by cable and what has to be done by dispatch. It is up to the
i

CO or the individual.

i
|
HI Mr. Goldsmith. Are there no written regulations govern-

ing when dispatches are to be used as opposed to cable?

Mrs. Scaletti. Sometimes.

Mr. Goldsmith. So there are regulations governing the

instances?

i

|

| |

13 Mrs. Scaletti. Right. i
19 Mr. Goldsmith. Does this cable contain a description of

20 Lee Harvey Oswald? \

21 Mrs. Scaletti. It provides a description of a male aaa

2 i looked to be an American who entered the Soviet Embassy.

ae as. Mr. Goldsmith. Is the answer yes or no.

xu | Mrs. Scaletti. I can't tell.

i

Mr. Goldsmith. Read the description contained in the
001729

2 eee |



i ; 21

fares
reac

re
i

second paragraph.
j
i
fi] : 1 Mrs. Scaletti. Correct.
Mr. Goldsmith. The first paragraph mentions Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. The first paragraph mentions Oswald.

Mr. Goldsmith. The second paragraph also refers to a

i
4 | photograph and then it describes the person who appears in the
photograph, is that correct? i
Mrs. Scaletti. That is correct.
Mr. Goldsmith. Is this photograph linked to Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. In this cable it is not directly linked

to Oswald.

Mr..Goldsmith. Is it indirectly linked to Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. In this cable it is not indirectly linked

either. I might say, to clarify, that in many instances we

would receive cables like this and it would be the same person.

Rather than put a lot of wordage in they put this down, what
they heard and this is what they have seen, and maybe without
putting all the language there may be or may not be indentifiable

or this could possible be the same person,

o

We were very careful to do this when we go out to third

agencies.

Mr. Goldsmith.. Certainly the Mexico City station would

saan une qussnnntngp000)eene aasataeh tteyespeeeseeesaatasaastatiuaeaseesseerouannant

ae 73: j not send up a cable containing simply the information reflected)
74) in paragraph number 2? i

i

2s H Mrs. Scaletti.. No, because» it was worth nothing. H

HW 50955 ee Page 24 T G ? 8 iy A q 7 hails



NW 50955

z

Docla:

A cea

|
|
1

22

Mr. Goldsmith. So you are saying you believe, and you
may correct me if I am wrong, that the cable would not put in
all of the extra verbage such as saying "this may be Oswald".
Instead they would give you the information on Oswald in
paragraph 1. In paragraph 2 they report the fact of a photo-
graph and the fact that they report the particular photograph
simply means this may or may not be Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti.. Yes. What they have done is obvious to
me now and I would assume this might have been the way I
interpreted it at the time, that they got the phone call. The
station went and said "now, look, can we identify him" and
they went to the photograph.

The only photographs they saw which could have been -~-

|
|
|
i

1
you know, in case this man had walked in around that time, may7
i

be this is the one they think it is, so let us give them the
description, it might help Washington.

Mr. Goldsmith. So, the significance of that second
paragraph is that this might be Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. This is the way I interpret it now. I
probably interpreted it at the time but I can't remember my
exact though processes so many years ago. I would not now
have gone back to the station and said “why did you send me
paragraph 2?"

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that paragraph 2 does not

say "Have photograph of Oswald."

001731



[eceos}
pam

day
ag a

4 23

| Mrs. Scaletti. Right.

2

Mr. Goldsmith. I just wanted to clarify that your answer'
was that paragraph 2 meant this may be Oswald even though that

lenguage was not expressly used.

Mrs. Scaletti. Right.

i
|
\
1
i
|
|
|
|
|
!
i
i
Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know, and I realize you just gave i

an opinion as to what may have happened, do you know how the '
i

people in Mexico City station went about the process of obtain-;

ing that photograph and suggesting that that photograph may i
i
be Oswald? |

Mrs. Scaletti. I have no knowledge of how the station

did this, I could only guess what the process of a person in

é eS 13 | the station would be.

io Mr. Goldsmith. You never talked to anyone from the
18 1 station about this?
i
4 Mrs, Scaletti. No. I never have talked to Mrs. Minelli.

I only talked to Annie Goodpasture when she was doing some

1a i research on where she could find some photos, you know, that

19 might have been retired in Washington. That is all.
20 | Mr. Goldsmith. Did she give you any indication of what
21 she did, if anything, to pick out this particular photograph?
@: 2 Mrs. Scaletti. It is my understanding she didn't have
7 24) anything to do with picking out the photograph.
ry Wa i Mr. Goldsmith. I am not suggesting she did.
‘ i i

Mr. Scaletti. No, she did not mention anything about

ae ee Sera 901732



HW 50955

is

Docla:

hom men TOP SEGRET

Lape
ce
ene,
ze
on
[Pe
is
7
aie
Bw

€
=
Bae
#

24

that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you ever see the photograph that is

referred to in paragraph number 2?
Mrs. Scaletti. I think I might have seen it. I don't

remember. I could have seen it when Ann was up here about a

year ago trying to find the photographs but I don't think she |
ev er showed it to me. But I can't swear one way or the other
because I was not involved in the case. ;
Mr. Goldsmith. Now, the first paragraph of that cable
refers, I believe, to a statement by the person who identified
himself as Osald, to the effect that Oswald had been in contact
with Kostikov, does it not?

Mrs. Scaletti. Whom he believed to be Kostikov. |

Mr. Goldsmith. Yes. Do you recall whethere:the fact of
the reference to Kostikov may have enhanced the importance of
this particular cable? In other words, not only do we have
an American who contacted the Soviet Embassy but he also was i
in contact with Kostikov? {

Mrs. Scaletti.. I sort of doubt it. I don't remember
that it did but I don't think it did.

Mr. Goldsmith. Even though Kostikov was known by the
KGB?

Mrs. Scaletti. Aimost 50 percent are KGB or GRU.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is GRU?" :

Mrs. Scaletti. Military Intelligence. t



bo
ery

ce
fee
©

HI 25

|
|
Mr. Goldsmith. Kostikov in particular, however, was
\
|

»

working out of this unit of the KGB that was involved in

o

sabotage and assassination operations?

Mrs. Scaletti.’ I probably didn't even know that because

uw

all the matters on the Soviets would be kept up in the Soviet

Branch. I would have known possibly if I had looked hard

enough that he was KGB but that would not really have made

wo

any difference in my name tracing. i

Mr. Goldsmith. Now, CIA Number 177 has some numbers

j
to i| written on the left hand side of the page.
7 | Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. :
| i
12 | Mr. .Goldsmith. Can you identify what those numbers refer!
i

- e H to? n

Mrs. Scaletti. This is a file number.

a

Mr. Goldsmith. 200-5~-41?

Mrs. Scaletti. The 200 is always the general series and
I believe that 200 stands for: something international. . The
second number is the more specific category and I believe 5 Hl
i

has something to do with politics. 41 is just the title of

the folder that is next in line. It starts out with "D"

'
colon. I don't know what that means but I guess it means cross
filing or something or duplicate maybe.

i

Mr. Goldsmith. Would you now refer to CIA Number 179

and read that document in full?

Mrs. Scaletti. Okay.

wy soss nenuterrom oe ne TOP REGRET 01734



HW 50955

ros

oo

Docla:

dU aky

i fal

se

fA

G
mal

26

Mr. Goldsmith. Before we discuss this document in

detail, after receiving the cable from Mexico City station,
|
the cable dated October 9, what action, if any, did you take

in response?

Mrs. Scaletti. I took the normal procedure for a name |
|
trace. You would submit a form and you would ger a reply from
i
|| the main registry and what documents and things might be ‘

| available in the Agency on the person whom you are searching.

| Mr. Goldsmith. Did you receive a reference to a 201
i

|} number?

i Mrs. Scaletti. I believe so. Unless I see my name trace
reply I couldn't tell what I got.

Mr. Goldsmith. Why would you make a name trace if the
cable didn't regest one?

Mrs. Scaletti.. I was over eager, I guess. You are not

limited to a name trace only if somebody asks for it. But if

you feel it is appropriate.you can do it. I was being a little;
facetious. Actually it would be the normal thing to do.

If you found an American in touch with the Soviets you

normally see if there was any problem there.

I
i
{ Mr. Goldsmith. After doing the name trace did you
i
i
' receive access to Lee Oswald's 201 file?

|

i Mrs. Scaletti. I received access to a file. I don't
know whether it was the 201 file or not.

Mr. Goldsmith. What other files would there have been?

‘
i
'
|
|
'
y
'
|
i
i
i
|
i
i

- 001735

Pl GAT |



nD

3

on

NW 50955 DocIa

ostenes

SUP Qebie

27,
} 1

Mrs. Scaletti. I just don't know. Sometimes you have

a document that references a document or soft folder or some-

thing. I am trying to be honest. I don't want to say I saw
a 201 file if it were not a 201 file which is a very specific

type folder.

Mr. Goldsmith. Let us take a look at CIA Number 179.
Did you send this cable to Mexico City station?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Turning to CIA Number 179, that document
in the first paragraph refers to Oswald's 201 file.

Mrs. Scaletti. Oh, then there would have been a 201

file probably.

Mr. Goldsmith: Then you were the author of that cable?
Mrs. Scaletti. Right. I am not trying to be difficult.

It is just that I am trying to be accurate.

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that.. I should indicate i
to you at the same time that we have been told by other wit-
nesses. before the Committee that you were known for having an
excellent memory. Your reputation before this Committee is a

very good one.

}
i
'
i

Mrs. Scaletti. Thank you very much. i

Mr. Goldsmith. The description contained in the second

paragraph of that cable, where would that have been obtained?

i
i
'
|

Mrs. Scaletti. From the 201 probably. As much as I can ;
|
recall it would have been in the 201 file.

901736

lam omen [OP SEGRE


i

HW 50955 DocId:

i
{

‘
iT
4
iq
1
It
i)

A 28

Mr. Goldsmith. I said the second paragraph. I really

meant --

Mrs. Scaletti. The remainder. All paragraph 2. Para-
graph 3 could have been in the 201. It could have been in
other miscellaneous documents. Under the current system and

ever since the early sixties not all materials is necessarily

in a 20] because it is just too time consuming. You find an
occasional documents which are not in the 201 which could have |
been the source. It is up to you to get it in the 201. H

Mr. Goldsmith. What about the information in the first
paragraph, the description of Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. That would have come from the 201. We
sanitized that. That is fairly sterile thing that could be
passed out to government agencies.

The third rule precluded the rest of it from being passed.

i
That is why it is separate.

Mr. Goldsmith. What do you mean by the third agency rule
precludes other information --

Mrs. Scaletti. Because the last paragraph, paragraph
4, says station should pass the info in paragraph 1 to the

The info in paragraphs 2 and 3 originated with the State |

|

Embassy, to the Navy, to the FBI and to I&NS locally.

Department. Since it originated with the State Department you ,
i
cannot give it to the other government agencies. You have to

refer them to the Department of State to get it themselves.


29

eaze

Mr. Goldsmith. What about the information in paragraph

i

i
Mrs. Scaletti. That was just a very basic sentence so

thatwe could identify them. We took the liberty of passing

i

|

|

|
that but not the sensitive information from the State Department.

i

6! Mr. Goldsmith. Now, once the information in paragraph 2
Ht i

| had been obtained by you did that in any way increase the

i

significance of Oswald's contact with the Soviet Embassy?

Mrs. Scaletti. As I recall that is what I thought. made

it very significant.
i | Mx. Goldsmith. Can you explain why?
i

2) Mrs. Scaletti. Any American who had tried to renounce

: @ af | his US citizenship in the Soviet Union, now having again a

relationship with the Soviet. Embassy would lead one to wonder

1s 1 why he had tried to renounce his citizenship in the first

; place, and why he was still in contact with the Soviets, |
‘ i
i7 | whether’ there was a possibility he really was working for the

Soviets or what.

t
Mr. Goldsmith. Paragraph 5 I believe reqyusts Mexico
City station to send any additional information either relevant,

| to further contact by the individual or positive identification

|
i
|

Is that true?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes, it is.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did Mexico City station prior to the

assassination send any additional information about Oswald

001738

“HW 50955 Doela:92277223 Page 32 T if e 8 Fe a F 7 :



&

kore
Gory
ee
a
Ge
tent
E ye
bn Bue:

30

to headquarters?

2

Mrs. Scaletti. Not that I recall but I could not swear

to that.

cable?
Mrs. Scaletti. His signature appears as the ADDP

releasing officer.

| Mr. Goldsmith. What is the function of a releasing

a

Mr. Goldsmith. Does Karamessines appear anywhere on that

|
|
|
|

| officer?
10 i Mrs. Scaletti. He takes full responsibility for. the
7 cable.
12 / Mr. Goldsmith. Why would someone as high up in the organ
-@ 13 : ization as Karamessines ask to be the releasing officer of this:

ted particular cable?

16 | thought or what several of us might have thought at the time,
that since itceinvolved somebody of this nature who had tried

13 | to renounce his citizenship, who was in the Soviet.Union,

married to a Soviet, got out with a Soviet wife presumably,

20 | which is very strange, and now the contact with the Soviets,
21 | we could have a security, a major security problem.

This was one way of informing him and getting attention
at the higher level.

Mr. Goldsmith. Iam asking you now to speculate a bit.

Had the 201 file not contained the information ‘about --

AW 50955 Pi Page 33 ) f P . ip R ke T

py

901739

}
i

3 Mrs. Scaletti. I can only surmise now what I might have |

H
i
H
i
|
i
!
i
i
H
|


HW 50955

Docla:

4
|
4

homn meu UP SEERET

31

Mrs. Scaletti. Not in paragraph 2?

Mr. Goldsmith. Had not the information contained in

paragraph 2, would you have gone to Karamessines?
Mrs. Scaletti. Proabably not.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would Karamessines be apprised of every

situation where the CIA was taking action with regard to an
American abroad?

Mrs. Scaletti. No, probably not.

Mr. Goldsmith. It would not be standard operating

procedure to notify someone such as Karamessines in cases where,
|

the Agency was going te take further action in regard to an i
American abroad?
i

Mrs. Scaletti. In 1963?

Mr. Goldsmith. . 1963?

Mrs. Scaletti. In 1963 I don't believe so.

Mr. Goldsmith. How many people actually worked on the
cable that appears in CIA Number 179? In other words, you
wrote it but how many people were actually involved?

Mrs: Scaletti., One in what is now "SB" Division, Soviet

Branch. One in CIA Staff, two in CIA Staff and a Branch Chief.

These people have the right to change a cable.

Mr. Goldsmith. By "these people" you are referring to |
the initiating officer?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes, and authenticating officer. If

they had changed the message they would have changed it and

001740


i

a

6

YW 50955 DocId:

de277223 Page 35 T f} P

32

they initial on the side. If there is a major revision at
either of these levels it can be sent back for a complete
retyping.

Mr. Goldsmith. How many of these people were actually
involved in the substance of writing the cable?

Mrs. Scaletti. Probabiy myself and Mrs. Egeter and
possibly Rowe in SB Division. Since there is very little to
do about the Soviets here, there is not a lot of bio on the
Soviet, my feeling is that SR, this is counterintelligence
section, they probably had some role in assessing whether this
could possibly be a serious matter or not.

Mr. Goldsmith. Was it common for that many people to be

involved in the writing and reviewing of a cable?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. Sometimes you have many more. The

rule of thumb is anybody who has any interest in any cable
gets their name on it.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would you now please read CIA Number
785?

Mrs. Scaletti. All right.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would you identify that document?

Mrs. Scaletti. I have just read Directive 7467 --
I can't read it. It is 3 I believe. Your code is Number 785.

Your document.

Mr. Goldsmith. When I asked you to identify it, what is!

that cable?

001741

CoD
my
fom)
pada
ey
ee |

hs


HW 50955

n

my

3

Docla:

ee T if PSEGRET A

vat

Bs

'

a

tae

Mrs. Scaletti. This is nto a cable. This is an out

wenn

33

teletype to the Department of State, the FBI, and Navy which
sends electrically to those three other government agencies
basic information received from Mexico in our name trace on
Oswald..
Mr. Goldsmith. What was the purpose of sending the
teletype? H
Mrs. Scaletti. The purpose of the teletype was to notify
i
basically the FBI because it is an American, it is a CI case.
The Navy and State Department because here you have an ex-Navy
man I believe and soembody whom the Department has reported.
This man is of interest to the Navy and State Department and

'
i
i
'
i
i

the FBI just-for the security of the United States it is

‘important to notify all those government agencies.

Mr. Goldsmith. Who wrote this particular teletype?

Mrs. Scarletti. I did.

201 file, is that correct?

i
\
j
|
i
|
i
Mr. Goldsmith. This was done after having reviewed Oswald
i
|
Mrs. Scarletti. It would have been written at the same |

time the cable to Mexico was written in all likelihood.

i
|
Mx. Goldsmith. In light of the fact that the cable: to
i
Mexico City and this dissemination teletype to the other
: i

i

government agencies were both written at the same time, I think
i

if we refer to the time on these documents it would indicate

that they were moreorless simultaneous, can you explain why

901742/



oO

o

“0

rm

HW 50955 DocId:

‘agencies does not contain an accurate description of Oswald?

32277223 Page 37 TG:

u 34

the cable to Mexico City contained a relatively accurate

description of Oswald whereas the teletype to the government

Mrs. Scaletti. What do you mean by accurate?
Mr. Goldsmith. Let us go over it.

Mr. Scaletti. It is just a synopsis. Number one, you

are not going to send the Department of State information. to {

the FBI and the Navy. That is number one. So all that detailed

|

information we sent to Mexico City station we did not tell |

them to pass it locally and we are not going to pass it locally|

Mr. Goldsmith. I am not talking now about the detailed

\

information regarding Oswald's background. I am talking now |

about the description of his physical characteristics.

Paragraph 1 of the cable to Mexico City contains a
general description of Oswald that is moreorless accurate.

Mrs. Scaletti. Paragraph 1 of the cable to Mexico City

gives the physical description of Lee Henry Oswald who is the
subject of 201, 289, 248. Paragraph 1 of the teletype did

not include -- gave the bio but not physical description,

which. is more important really, and what we gave the Navy was

the information from our sources on the person we thought could!
have been Oswald, but we did not repeat for them what would be

a physical description. It would not have been normal unless

the Navy had come back and said “look, we have a file on

Oswald. Now, do you have such and. such a description?

001743



ns,
saat
many
&
a7

This is strictly for the investigative use of the

€

35

station.
Mr. Goldsmith. When you say this you are now referring
to paragraph 1 of CIA number 179?

Mrs. Scaletti. Right. Let us start over again. The

actual physical description on Lee Henry Oswald from your cable

| numbered 179 was sent to the station to assist them in further

o

| investigation to see if they knew of anybody or had anybody
down there that really fitted what we thought was an accurate
| physical description of the Oswald thatwe had a file on.

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that.

Mrs. Scaletti. When we came to document number 785, i

the teletype. to State, FBI and Navy, we did not, and I. would

not normally even today, provide those investigative agencies

i
with the physical description of Lee Henry Oswald as we thought
8) it to be then.

We provided them only with our intelligence, not with

State Department intelligence. which gave the stuff out of the

20] in paragraph 1 on out teletype shown in document 785 is worded

|
|
|
\
|
|
viel i
191 audio and the possible physical description. The wording here
|
|
21] that the American was déscribed. |

As I told your man from your Committee earlier, its

possibly would have been better, although it did not occur to

me at the time and this is the way those things were written in
i

those times, to say that an American described as this could

w sss vocecdamn oan TOP OEGRET porzad



re

rd

HW 50955 DocId:

di

bo

a 36.
possibly be identifiable and qualified but the normal procedure|
in 1963 was to provide to the other government agencies infor-
|
mation and intelligence from our sources.
Mr. Goldsmith. Whereas the information contained in
paragraph 1 of CIA dociment number 179 was not from your SoaeeeP
Mrs. Scaletti. Was not our source, was not our informa-
tion. {

if Mr. Goldsmith. Now, paragraph 1 of CIA number 785 does

not contain any language or qualification indicating that?

Mrs. Scaletti. I agree with that.
| Mr. Goldsmith. It is only an indication that it was

possibly Oswald or this was possibly his description?

Mrs..Scaletti. Or possibly not. -I agree with that.
Mr. Goldsmith. Why wouldn't the teletype indicate that

, the description that you gave was not consistent with the

description that. you had in your files from these other !
i

agencies?
Mrs. Scarletti. I don't know why.

¥ Mr. Goldsmith. Were you aware when you sent out the

i
i
i
|
i
|
i

tions?

i

q
H
| cable and the teletype that you were giving different descrip-
|
{
i
i Mrs. Scarletti. Yes. I assume I was. I don't remember |

now. This-is some time.
i Mr. Goldsmith. By the manner in which the language is

" @isplayed in the first paragraph in document 785 does that

i Paraarr
32277223 Page 39 Te a u £ F ii r i

001745


Suggest to you that in fact when you received the cable fromi:

Mexico City you did link the photograph referred to in that

cable to Lee Harvey Oswald?

Mrs. Scarletti. It would appear that I did.

ro

Mr. Goldsmith. Was there any intention on your part to

oO

| deceive any.other agencies by giving a description contained
fl

i) in that paragraph in the teletype?

\ Mrs. Scarletti. None at all. The point is that we

20

considered the basic information to be taking place at birth,

fact, we tried to go overboard. As you already have pointed

i
|
hot a physical description which can change. As a matter of
i
out, this tation did not even ask for a trace but as sson as
i
H

we got this we immediately sent it out hoping to get a response),

We gave it to the field. I can honestly say there was.cer-

i
H
| tainly no intention to keep anything or to hide anything. We
4 1
|
j
|
|

's | were trying to put something forth and see what the other

agencies could do.

13 Mr. Goldsmith. Did you ever get any response from the

other agencies regarding Oswald?

{
20 | Mrs. Scaletti. Not that I recall. What was the date
|
| o£ our teletype out to the other gov ernment agencies?

|

: Mr. Goldsmith. 10 October 1963.

1
i
\
H
i
|
\
I
i
i
|
i
'
|
\
|
|
H
Mrs. Scaletti. So there was certainly no delay on our

Xsart in getting that material out.

1
i

" Mr. Goldsmith. That is correct. The information contained

|
| Bor
NW 50955 pocld: 42277223 Page 40 p { et) .

“001746
AgnrT {
PRET bene



qaqqyar Ae Hoa a
| 1uy SELAE I 38
i
| |
in paragraph 2 of the teletype would also seem to have been |

2

@ || obtained from another agency. Therefore, why didn't the third H
i

i) agency rule preclue you from communicating that information?

Mrs. Scaletti. You can put a few sentences like ve gave

@

to the field to giv e to the other government agencies.

This was sent to the Department of State.
Mr. Goldsmith. It was sent to the FBI, too? i
Mrs. Scaletti. I don't know. This would have been

cleared with the CIA Staff which is responsible for the third

agency rule. You can see it is only a/five line synopsis with
j no detail.

j Mr. Goldsmith. It sitll owuld have been obtained from

' third agency sources?

Mrs. Scaletti. Right. Just like i gave one sentence i

to Mexico City to alert other government agencies without

passing the document. I am sure this must have. been in dis-

cussion with the CI*Staff as to how muchve thought we should

i
7 |

131 pass out. We cannot give nothing because how are you going to

identify to the Department of State or Navy, here is somebody

who might be identifiable with somebody in your records? a

You don't want to say just look at your records. You H

"2
3

22 | find that unfortunately if you tell the Navy that if you want

any more information on Oswald go to the Department of State,
then you have to say if you go to the Department of State you

had better ask for records on Lee Henry Oswald who was born on

ws worasumn ona TOP SECRET i



oa

39

&
py

such and such a date in such and such a place, otherwise they
don't know how to ask for that.

Mr. Goldsmith. Incidentally, you have been referring to
Oswald as Lee Henry Oswald and the cable refers to him as Lee
Henry Oswald. In fact the 201 file refers to him as Lee Henry
Osald. Do you know why the file would have been referring to
him as Lee Henry Oswald instead of Lee Harvy Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. If I mentioned Lee Harvey it is because

i I am brain washed with all the events. But the Lee Henry, we

HH generally will put in a cable the name as the 201 is opened.

So, my only guess is that the basic documents from the Depart~

ment of State or from ‘somebody inthat 201 file probably said
his name was Lee Henry .Oswald.

Until you find a cause or reason to change the name you
leave a file in whatever name it is opened. Then you would
later on amend it and correct the file.

Mr. Goldsmith. Before we refer to these documents from

the State Department that apparently led to the opening of

Oswald's 201 file, let me ask you this general question. If

you were to run a name trace on Lee Harvey Oswald in the CIA
indices --

Mrs. Scaletti. Today?

Mr. Goldsmith. If you had run one in 1963 on Lee Harvey
i Oswald, would you have received a reference to a file on Lee

Henry Oswald?
| 001748

CRET

iad


us

16

e :

it
i
i
{
|
i

ah BR Tr 4
HW 50955 DocId: : iene Page 43 a

a SR” Re
PUP SLOHE | 40

i
Mrs. Scaletti. Very possibly. They are pretty good about
that. But in 1963 I think we had to do our own. I might even
have done some of that searching myself. Today it is auto-
matic, you are not allowed to do your own name traces. In
1963 sometimes you would do your own name trace. It was upt
to you to look far enough.

Mr. Goldsmith. It is possible in 1963 if you looked up

Oswald, Lee Harvey, you might miss Lee Henry?

Mrs. Scaletti. Right. I would look enough to the Lee

j
“Oswald. If you saw Henry and you saw Harvey and they both had
i

the same birth date you would pick it out and see that there’
was a mistake. i
Mr. Goldsmith. What I meant was if you did a name trace
on Lee Harvey and you saw Lee Henry and didn't check, it would ;
be possible for you to miss it entirely?

Mrs. Scaletti. It would be possible. With your good
checker, especially if there is some identifying data on the
card, you would pull -- lots of times you pull many variations.

Mr. Goldsmith. The reason I ask the question is fairly
obviously. The suggestion has certainly been made by virtue of

this information being released to the public, the suggestion
Hl
has been made that by opening the file in the name of Lee Henry

Oswald if someone wanted to do a name trace on Lee Harvey*: :
E i

Oswald they.would miss that person and for some reason they may
i

have had the tendency to have that name Lee Harvey Oswald over-

1

901749.


eee

41

looked for whatever reason.

n>

Mrs. Scaletti. The only thing I can say is that it is

a

standard procedure to open up a file and register it in the

first name that tecomes available. I am not saying what was

i done in the case of Mr.. Lee Harvey Oswald. This is the normal
i

: procedure. The normal procedure is as other names, which are
a vareity of that, come up cross reference cards are placed

in the system. So that possibly until it is determined for

sure that Lee Harvey is correct that might appear in the file as
i

a cross reference alias to Lee Henry, in which case under Lee

Henry you would have a cross index card listing the alias,

12 1 "see also.Lee Harvey", which would mean that you would have to
{
: () Hy | do name traces under Lee Harvey. i
! : i
i i
is Mr. Goldsmith. I would like to show you CIA number 822 |

1s ‘ which is a list of American defectors which had' been provided '
18 to the Agency by the State Department. On thelist is Lee

VW | Harvey Oswald. According to testimony received by the Committee
1321 that letter and the attached list is what led to the opening
19 | of Oswald's. 201 file. It refers to him by his name in the
correct manner, Lee Harvey Oswald, and not Lee Henry Oswald.
That is why there is a question as to why the file was opened

22 | in the name of Lee Henry Oswald.

Mrs. Scaletti. I would have no idea about.that. The

4 1 only thing I can point out and put in the record is that unless
/ {

one has worked with name trace indices one has no comprehension
i

ee

001750 |

mm


oe on

rey

HW 50955 DocId:

42

of the variety of the way names app-ar and are spelled and are
taken off records. It just boggles the mind on how anybody
finds anything sometimes.

Mr. Goldsmith. The issue I am concerned with is whether
by opening the file under Lee Henry Oswald it would have been
possible to in effect hide the information that the Agency has
on Lee Harvey Oswald.

Mrs. Scaletti. I would say there was no idea of any
birth date or there was an eroneous birth date which would make
you look at the card and say "this could not be the same
because this man is older than this person." A good name i
tracer prob bly would come up with all the references.

Mr. Goldsmith. If the Mexico City station was aware of
the faet that Oswald had also contacted the Cuban Embassy and
that he was requesting a visa, should that information have been
communicated?

Mrs. Scaletti. Could you repeat that?

Mr. Goldsmith. If Mexico City station was aware that
Oswald in addition to contacting the Soviet Embassy had also
contacted the Cuban Embassy and that with regard to his contacts
at each Embassy was requesting a visa, should that information
have been passed along to the Mexican Desk as requested by the

i
|

cable from headquarters to Mexico City station?
i

Mrs. Scaletti. It probably should have but it probably

not necessarily would have been because the same poeple do not

001751


un

o

NW 50955 DocId:

4

32277223 Page 46 {

read that traffic. In other words, the people who listen to

the Cuban things would not have known anything about the Soviét

traffic. They would not have known anything about Lee Harvey
Oswald. |
Mr. Goldsmith. Assuming that the. people at the Mexico
city station knew of these contacts at the Cuban Embassy and |
{
of the fact that Oswald was requesting a visa, in other words, |
assuming that the person who sent the original cable to head~
quarters reporting Oswald's contact with the Soviet Embassy,
assuming that person very shortly afterwards found out about |
the contact with the Cuban Embassy and about Iswald's request |
for a visa, should that person have sent that information to
heacquarters in cimpliance with the request in the headquarters
cable for further information on Oswald? |
Mrs, Scaletti. .I think that would be expected,
z : )
Mr. Goldsmith. What would you have done had you received)
that information?
Mrs. Scaletti. I. probably would have jogged our memory i
again andvw might have gone back out to the Department of
State or FBI and said “Look, here is this man. again, he is
showing up. Now let us know what you have."
Mr. Goldsmith. The FBI and the State Department would

{
|
H
{
H
i
i
Hl
i
i

have been notified? i
H
Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. We would have gone back and referred

i

to our original out message and also maybe there would have been
' H

001752 |



\
nD

a

HW 50955 DocId:

tae

| he
additional information coming in on the contact with the
Dubans whichwould have made us feel that either the physical
description was not right or we might have more bio, or whateve
Me. Goldsmith. _ When was the next time after you sent a
cable to Mexico City station and you teletyped these other
agencies, when was the next time you heard of Lee Harvey
Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't remember. The only thing I can

say is that based on what is in the file that I must have heard}

about. it when the station came in and asked -- well, if there

' was nothing else in the file the name poppéd up again, I just

don't remember.about the assassination or. whenever.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would the testimony be that to the best
of your recollection the next time you heard the name was when
you heard about the assassination?

Mrs. Scaletti. Probably.

Mr. Goldsmith. At that time did the name Oswald ring a

y bell? Did you remember the earlier cable traffic about him?

Mrs. Scaletti. I just don't know. When he was assassi-
nated, I don't even remember how long it was before they go the
name of Oswald.

Mr. Goldsmith. Oswald was picked up within two: hours.

ii after the assassination and the name was made public.

Mrs. Scaletti. Immediately?

Mrj.Goldsmith. Yes.

|
|

|
\
|
i
\
i
i
‘
|
i
!

901753



NW 50955

Docla:

nD

a

o

oo

ec

45

Mrs. Scaletti. If I were in the office unless I had the

radio on -- we didn't have a radio in the office neceesarily
-- I would not have heard the name Oswald until the next day
probably. I would assume this was a little bit unusual, I
might have tied it in. I am sure the first thing they would
have iaone is make a name trace when they came up with that
name and they would come up with a 201 file all over again.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you recall where you were on Friday,
November 22, 1963?

Mrs. Scaletti. The only thing I remember about it is
going home and finding my husband sitting in front of the TV
and talking about it. I probably was at the office but I
don't remember anything. I blanked out. I must have been at

the office.

|

if
|
j
|
|
i
i
|
i
|

i
if
i
|
|
|
1
|
i
|
|

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you remember bringing Jack Whitten the

Oswald file on that day?

Mrs. Scaletti. I wouldn'tiremember that. If he had

; asked for it I probably did. It would have been natural for me;

i to if I did. TI just don't know.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you ever find a photograph of Lee
Harvey Oswald at CIA Headquarters?

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't remember ever finding an Oswald

| photograph.

Mr. Goldsmith. Right around the time of the assassinatio

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't remember it.

001754

a at 4
etree rt
rage ce GEUP APTS |

i

i
i
I
|

a?
|
i
}
\

1
|
i


.

ny

a

i
|
a

HW 50955 Docld:32277223 Page 49

Joseph Smith?

46

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you find a photograph of someone
whom you thought to be Lee Harvey Oswald?

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't remember that either.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know Phillip Agee?

Mrs.::S¢aletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. What is your opinion of his reputation

for veracity?
Mrs. Scaletti. You »meanzin the book or just in person?

Mr. Goldsmith. As a person.

Mrs. Scaletti.’ I think Phil had lots of problems. I

certainly think he is capable of exaggerating. I certainly

i
|
|
think he is capable -~ talking about the book or as a person,
I: think he plunges into things, thinks they will be great and |

|

i then he is disillusioned and things never turned out the way

he thinks they are going to and he is dissatisfied. I am talk-
i

ing about personal setbacks. I don't think he is quite capable’

of handling things.

aansaeapaaata

Mr. Goldsmith. In terms of telling the truth do you think
he generally tells the truth or not?

Mrs. Scaletti. I would probably say that sometimes he
thinks he does but I don't think he necessarily always does.

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you ever know a CIA employee named

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.
Mr. Goldsmith. What is your opinion of his reputation? |
i

mma 001755
4 ui
}



oe

on'the ground than Phil.

ua

Mr. Goldsmith. Did you ever tell Joe Smith

Agee that you had found a photograph of Oswald or

3

thought to be Oswald?

I did not know Joseph Smith
I had never seen Joe except at the station
City and Phil-I_only,saw when I was in Mexico.
i no reason to say..that.

Goldsmith.

would have any reason,

Goldsmith. I guess for the purpose of
I would like to ask the question one more time.
i tell Phillip Agee or Joseph Smith that you found

| Oswald or someone whom you thought to be Oswald?

Not that Ian recall.

Goldsmith.

I don't believe so.

Mr. Goldsmith.

ithe investigation of the assassination?

(see

HW 50955 Docld:322

47

This is just off the top of my head.

I only knew him in the office and very superficially, Joe

or Phillip

someone you

in Mexico
in Mexica

would have

So your answer to the question is no?

I don't recall it and I don't see that I

clarification
Did you ever

a picture of

After the assassination of the President

did you have any responsibility with regard to the Oswald file?
4

001756

I didn't know. Joe as much as I knew Phil.;

I might guess possibly that Joe might have his feet more soundly

|

|
i
|
|
|
i

Did you work with Jacke Whitten at all on:


48

Mrs. Scaletti. No: Not that I recall. I think that

2 | was taken away from the branch immediately.

ray

Mr. Goldsmith. Will you please read CIA number 246?

a

Mrs. Scaletti. Right. I wrote that.

us

Mr. Goldsmith. What is the date of that?

\
i
i

6 | Mrs, Scaletti. 18 May 1967.

ia : Mr. Goldsmith. That pertains to Oswald?

&

Mrs. Scaletti. I wrote a dispatch on 18 May 1967
i
ce requesting the station. to forward any photographs that they

bile Seyi I don't remember. this.
Mr. Goldsmith. Would the fact that you wrote that help

4
refresh your recollection at all as to whether you worked on 1

| the Oswald case after the assassination?
t

|
Mrs. Scaletti. The only thing I can remember is that I i
i

was not a member of any task force. Somebody could hfve said

16 | “Charlotteywrite this," and I could have written it.

iran Mr; Goldsmith. .In terms of responsibility for the Oswald |
|

1g j file did you have any responsibility for that after the assassi-+

i H

19 | nation? |

20 | Mrs. Scaletti. I would say that the desk might have had

21 | responsibility until it was turned over to a task force, not

) fi 22 i necessarily myself,

Mr. Goldsmith. At the time of the assassination the file

i

was at the Mexico Desk, is that right? |

Mrs. Scaletti. It may not have been. It could have been ji

001757 |

| AP
HW 50955 Docld:34277223 Page 51 Ta ie aN i

Ae |



(ocd

49

returned to where it was where I got it from. We do not keep

n>

all the files like that, necessarily. I could have kept the

file pending a reply or further investigation but that is not

a

necessarily normal. I generally keep a copy of my cables just

uw

until I get further --

oO

'
i
i
|
|
{
i
i
i
{
8

Mr. Goldsmith. In fact, according to the Agency's record

ot

the file was on the Mexico Desk at the-time of the assassination.

oo

|

i

5

i
Mrs. Scaletti. It was just waiting then for a reply. |
H

f {

Mr. Goldsmith. Was there anything unusual about its |
1¢ ; being at the Mexico Desk at that time? i

Wy Mrs. Scaletti. No, because we had written correspondence

on it. Tether we can hold the file until anything else comes
in or we can send it back and when we get material we can send

it on. There is nothing unusual about that. In. those days

|
|
i
|
i
Hl
|
|
|
i
|
i
i
i
{
|
we were more apt to keep files than we are in these days.

They try to keep them down in the central repository.

i7 | Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether’ .the México! City: =

1g } station:ever obtained.a photograph of Oswald? :

- i
Mrs. Scaletti. “No, I do not. {
|

Mr. Goldsmith.” Do you know whether they ever obtained a

| |
i q
i tape recording of his voice? Let me rephrasesthat. At the 1
i |
i H
i

| time of the assassination do you know whether they had a tape '

recording.of his voice?

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't know and they would have if they

kept the tapes but they normally do not keep those tapes on

001758
277223 Page 52 7

i
a

@ae

HW 50955 DocId:



tap..
Mr. Goldsmith. What is done with the tapes?
Mrs. Scaletti. They are erased. i
Mr. Goldsmith. ‘Why are they erased?
Mrs. Scaletti. They erase them because they need them.
They Beereee from.them what they feel is pertinent and then
they are kept a certain -- at. that time they were kept a

certain amount of time, I don't know how much it was, a week or/

two weeks, in case somebody decided they wanted to keep on
|
|

for the record. But they had to resue these*tapes.
Mr. Goldsmith. As a matter of routine?

Mrs. Scaletti. As a matter of routine.

|
H
|
Mr. Goldsmith. This dispatch con-ained in CIA number

246 with regard to the photograph of the man who had been seen
1

leaving the Embassy, was the agency concerned about the par- |
i

! ticular photograph?
Mrs. Scaletti. Yes, because you can tell from the way ie)
| was written.
Mrs. Goldsmith. Do you know why the Agency was concerned|

| about these photographs?

i
4
Mrs. Scaletti. To see if they could clarify whether it |
i
i
| was Oswald or was not who had gone in. :
i

i

Mr. Goldsmith. This is 1967. By then they should have
i i

clarified that issue, I would think. Was there any other reason
:
1

4
| why the Agency would have been concerned about that?

5 7 001759.

ea
my

4

ad

secs

NW 50955 Docld:32277223 Page 53

é


i"

o

HI
HW 50955 Docla:32:

YOULL 51

Mrs. Scaletti. Somebody must have said, “Look, we never
got an answer to that," or "let us see what they have", or
something. Somebody must have been doing a file review or
something. It says here "The recent reopening of publicity
regarding Oswald and Agency evidence, headquarters would like
to Heya Apparently somebody did a’name trace. They
were asked to look something up and they could not find it.

We had to go to the station to see if the station still had
negatives. Most of this information was held at the station
and was never sent to Washington.

This is a dispatch going out to Mexico asking if they

have-something in their files. {

Mr. Goldsmith. Let us look at CIA number 197. Will you

1
please read the second paragraph? It is to the Director from
|
Mexico City.
i
Mrs.-Scaletti. Okay, I have read paragraph 2 of 197. :

Mr. Goldsmith. Does that paragraph suggest to you.that at
the time of the assassination the Mexico City station still haa
H

at least one tape of Oswald's voice? In other words, the
paragraph does not say that both tapes had been erased. It !
says one was erased. |
Mrs. Scaletti. This was 23 November. When was the i
assassination?
Mr. Goldsmith. 22 November. :

i
Mrs. Scaletti. This was the day after the assassination. |

An
rt

2

om
277223 Page 54 |

aay


NW 50955

z

DocId: 32277223 Page 55

ei 52

It says “station unable to confirm first tape erased prior to

second call." The second call was 28 September. No, it does

not necessarily mean

that they had the second tape in. hand on

23 November. They were only saying that before 28 Sepetmber

telephone call they had erased the tape from the first call.

Mr. Goldsmith.
September 22, one on
Mrs. Scaletti.
second tape came in.
two voices. It does
Mr. Goldsmith.
sending a cable --
‘Mrs. Scaletti.

Mr. Goldsmith.

The sequence of the calls was one on
September 28 and one on October 1.

The first tape was erased before the
That is why they didn't compare those
not say they had a tape in hand.

Really it does not say that but a person

I would not interpret it that way.

I am not suggesting we: are necessarily

giving it that interpretation. It gives.rise to the possi-

bility of that interpretation because the person sending the

cable did not say all tapes are erased.

voice comparison as first tape erased prior to receipt of

second call."

Mrs. Scaletti.

I was taking at face value the person

is saying that we did not compare the voices because when we

got the call on the second one we didn't have the first one to

Mr. Goldsmith.

|| compare it or the transcriber did not have the first one.

Could you look at CIA number 208?

& Would you read the fourth paragraph?

001761

It. says "Unable to mak



Coenen

# 53

Mrs. Scaletti. That indicates that the trarscriber

believed that the two people were identical.

ry

Mr. Goldsmith. Does that suggest to you that after the

assassination the transcriber made a voice comparison?

$ Mrs. Scaletti. No.

o

: Mr. Goldsmith. How could he make that determination?

Mrs. Scaletti. When you work with these transcribers,

3] in no matter what’ language, to get this they replay and replay

way

| some of these*conversations. They know the people who talk all
i

10 4 the time, they can tell by their voice. They have an exceed-
4 .

ingly good ear. This happens quite frequently, this is not

me

infrequent, where a transcriber will say "look, the person I
~

heard today I. know is the same person who called in last week"

co

| ears and they live by their ability to identify voices, accents

'
|
i
|
|
or. something like that. This is what they do. They train theif
i
Mr. Goldsmith. After the assassination would all the i
|
i

17 | Mexico City files pertaining to Oswald have been sent to head-

x

quarters?

‘ : 1s | Mrs. Scaletti. No.

Mr. Goldsmith. Headquarters would not as a matter of
2; | routine have requested all that information?

a3 i Mrs. Scaletti. I don't know what they did. You don't t
. i

ask for the entire file. They were working with the file there,

They would have been doing the investigation. What would be

i
i

normal”I would think would be for the station to review its

001762

HW 50955 DocId:



q 54

&
a

files to see if there was anything pertinent that had not been

a
i
i

sent to headquarters but I do not think it would be logical for

3

them to send the file. This is my own impression and this is

what I would feel would be the case.

S| But if. they sent the file they would have nothing left |
6 on which to base further investigation. i
3 Mr. Goldsmith. Well, after the investigation had been |
8 completed would the file have been sent to headquarters? |
9 i Mrs. Scaletti. Probably not. They probably would have
a
10 i just -- as things occurred the pertinent matters would have com
i 1
|

by cable or dispatch to Washington, I believe it was sent
subsequently because’ I was.in the field, we did a purging of
the files because the files were voluminous, and I believe we

sent Oswald's file to Washington.

Mr..Goldsmith. This is when you were in Mexico City?

16 | Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

| o Mr, Goldsmith. During what years were you in Mexico
13 | City?

19 | Mrs. Scaletti. ‘'67 to '72. I could be wrong but I

20 | believe it was at:that time we sent the file up.

Mr. Goldsmith. Turning back for a’moment to the surveil-

lance operations in Mexico City, do you know how many telephones

i) were uiderveléctronic’ surveillance at the Cuban compound in

1963?

Mrs. Scaletti.” I would have known”in 1963. I can give

' 0017
| TOP SECRET aan
HW 50955 Docld:32277223 Page 57 W AW te | 4 5 j



55

you a ball park guess like three to five. |
Mr. Goldsmith: Do you know specifically whether the

Cuban Conulate's phone was tapped?

Mrs. Scaletti. I would say in all likelihood.

Mr. Goldsmith. A moment ago you mentioned the purging of

|
:
q
6 i files. I certainly do not mean‘to take that out of context.
i i
|

I understand what you are saying, they are voluminous files in

Mexico City, particularly I imagine in Mr. Win Scott's station,
and you were cleaning out the files as a matter of routine pro-
10 yf cedure. Do you know whether in. your-experience with the CIA

files were ever purged, removed or doctored out of the ordinary

|
|
!
i
\
1
{
i
{
|

i course:of business?

‘i e 13 Mrs. Scaletti. No, I do not.

i Mr. Goldsmith. In other words, for.deception purposes?

H i

Mrs. Scaletti. As a matter of fact, we were extremely

i

careful to make sure that every document was looked at and

i
\ A
17 | cross references were made or abstracts were made. We did not
|
i
\
i
|

1a | throwgzaway complete things without processing every papger to
19 make sure it was of value or not.
20 Mr. Goldsmith. To your knowledge there was never any

i
i

21 | incidents of purging of files in the ordinary course of
\

business?

Mrs. Scaletti. No.

ir, Goldsmith. Do you know what the term CI/SIG stands
for?
f 001764

il
HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page

kasd
aa

omnaeg


a 56

Mrs. Scaletti. TIt:is’a-special office within the CI

Staff.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know what function of the group

4 is?

5 { Mrs. Scaletti.. Was that Mrs. Egeter?
H :
| Mr. Goldsmith. Yes, it was.

Mrs. Scaletti. It is a secret group. We never knew what

& | went on down there.

Mr. Goldsmith. How many units were there in the CI

| Staff ? |
uy Mrs. Scaletti. I don't remember how many there were. I
1
i
i

12 { can tell you the ones I knew were there.

Mr. Goldsmith. Can you.tell me which ones were there?

Mrs. Scaletti. CI OA, the place where we got our

clearances. ‘We had CI R&A which did some research.

“Mr. Goldsmith. That was research and analysis?

|
i
Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. i

: i
Mr. Goldsmith. Can you tell me what each one was involved

in doing?

Mrs. Scaletti. CI R&A. CI/SIG, CI liaison.

i
H

Mr. Goldsmith. What about CI’-- did you say I0? i
|

Mrs. Scaletti. No. i
i

Mr. Golsmith. What was the first one you mentioned with

| regard to getting your clearance?

Mrs. Scaletti. CI OA.

001765



eo

w

4

4 tale
SHW 50955 Docld:32277223 Page 60 tf A

| Opening? |

57

Mr. Goldsmith. What does the OA stand for?

Mrs. Scaletti. Operational Approval I believe. But this
is what I remember because the names change and the number of
offices changed.

Mr. Goldsmith. | Did you ever work for CI/SIG?

1
1
i
|
|
1
|
{
|
1
|
Mrs. Scaletti. Never. |
Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether CI/SIG would ever
have been involved in opening up the 201 files? /
Mrs. Scaletti. They could have. Probably did.
Mr. Goldsmith. Would you say that CI/SIG was a parti- i
i
cularly secretive unit of the CI Staff? 1
Mrs, Scaletti. I don't know. All I know is that they
had special;files down there. If you would go down there a

lot of times. they would not want to give them to you, they a!
!
let. you read certain things. We never asked that many questions

of them. We didn't have much contact at all.
Mr..Goldsmith. I would like to show you CIA Number 788.

\

Will you please examine that document?

Mrs. Scaletti. I see it. 788 is a normal routine file

opening form.. i

Mr. Goldsmith. Whos is the subject of this particular

Mrs. Scaletti. The subject of the opening is Lee Henry
Oswald.

i

Mr. Goldsmith. On the upper left hand corner of the page)

i

Poy

001766

et
wes


\,

ry

a

Oo

o

4
i)

kee

58

fag

it says "to headquarters, RI"... Do you know what the RI would
have stood for?

Mrs. Scaletti. That is the main file room. That is a
preprinted form.

Mr. Goldsmith. In the middle of the page where it
indicates other identification it is written in --

Mrs. Scaletti. Here or this part?

Mr. Goldsmith. Here. It indicates other identification.!

It is written in "AG". Do you know what AG would stand for?
Mrs. Scaletti.’ No. There is a whole pamphlet either on
the back of this or regulations which tells you how to fill

out all these. It is very complicated. They assign certain

-symbols that mean certain things. If you don't remember you

hope somebody else does.

Mr. Goldsmith. Does your handwriting appear anywhere on
this page?

Mrs. Scaletti. My handwriting does not appear on 788.

Mr. Goldsmith. Could you now. read Commission Exhibit
197?

Mrs. Scaletti. I read this document. I have looked at
this document.

Mr. Goldsmith.” Would the information contained in that

document normally have led to the opening of the 201 file?

Mrs. Scaletti. I cannot tell. This was not my responsi-!

bility. I wouldn't have found it necessary~because I -had

901767

t


59

nothing to do with US citizens.

Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that. I am not suggesting

i
at all that that document with the information contained in it |

a

was your responsibility. I am asking now, based on your i
i

on

experience of over 25 years with the Agency, would the informa-

|
i
i
i
i
i
1
i
|
|
|
\
i
i

tion contained in that file normally as a matter of routine

| operating procedure have led to the opening of the 201 file?

Mrs. Scaletti. I would say no. It might have been

9 | indexed.

Mr. Goldsmith. Why would you say no?
Mrs. Scaletti. Because there is hardly anything here.
Mr. Goldsmith. It indicates that someone is defecting

and is oging to offer miliary or has offered military informa-

tion to the Soviets.

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes. But you can retrieve it with an

16 | index card. Why open a folder?. You open a file if you are
7 j going to gether material on it. Now, this would be the basis
i} for opening a 201 file. If you did a name trace in central

registry and you found 10 or 15 other documents on this same

20 | man. Then you would open the 201 with this document and put
21 copies of the other document in there and there you would. have
e ii 2 a folder on this man. If there was nothing, just by itself
: 3 i with no other reason, if you were interested in US citizens f
ew |
e ar | who were going to renounce their US citizenship the most I
HT

ag | would do would be to index it.
oo 001768
/ | 7 A rR ™ ya 4 —
HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 62 } u r

4



eI 60

|
: |
Mr. Goldsmith. If I were to go to the Agency today and i

{

ask them how many documents they had, if any, on Oswald, when

a

‘this. particular cable came in, would they ‘have that kind of i

information? |
Mrs. Scaletti. No, I don't think so because the documents

“they would have by date but they would not know what date they

might have received it. .Now, I asm sure they received a lot

on Oswald dated way back but they don't necessarily date time

i
; '
9 | stamp them in.=Even-one of those name trace forms would not i
i
i {
F necessarily -- I mean that is what they would tell you from |
i
i

ni registry if that is what came in. I don't see what they could

12 | tell you what they had available.
= i

t

Everything is now on the computer. You would have to ask;

|

a computer expert in'registry. I think you would be barking up!
}

the wrong tree.

16 3 Mr. Goldsmith. If someone were working as an agent, asset
17 40x source at the CIA would there be any indication to that :
j effect in the person's 201 file?

Mrs. Scaletti. ‘You mean if he were an agent of ours?
Mr: .Goldsmith. An agent, source, asset?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would that always be indicated?

Mrs. Scaletti. The only time it may not be the case, if

i

| @ person were a casual informant of a chief of station or a case

i officer overseas but that would not be a real agent relationship.

001769.

oo8

N¥ 50955 Docld:32277223 Page 63 }


fd

4
re

&
(ei

mf 61

seo}

fester

owe:
ae

Nowe
=

Mr. Goldsmith. As a matter of normal procedure a 201

n>

| file would indicate that a person was an agent, an asset or

a

source? : i

= H Mrs. Scaletti. You are not supposed to use anybody as

ro

an agent without getting clearance which requires form after |

form and they all-go into a folder.

7 H Mr. Goldsmith. That goes to the Security office? |
8 i Mrs. Scaletti. No, it goes into the 201 file. You mean
g what we call an agent or what the press calls an agent?

10 Mr. Goldsmith. I think the press would refer to a case

WW officer as an agent. I do not use that terminology.

124 Mrs. Scaletti. I am responding the way you --

MryGoldsmith. The case officer gets an agent out in the
field.

1s }. Mrs. Scaletti. His 201 file has copies of all those

| documents. You have to request a 201. You have to get your

17 || clearance. You have to do your name traces. There we a lot

jg} of things involved. Copies of all that go into thée-201

19 | Mr. Goldsmith. The file, fore example, would have an
i
i

20 | indication that operational approval had been granted?
fy

a4 Mrs. Scaletti. Or requested and denied.

Mr. Goldsmith. In normal cases then the 201 file if the

|| person was an agent would indicate that?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

i
{
i
|
i
i
: i

it
i

Mr. Goldsmith. Would there necessarily be a 201 file on

001770

|
i]

x
a)

sugeg
staat

oypny

Sra n
HW 50955 Docld:32277223 Page 64 { 4 r


a

ue

8

Cored
gee

Rtas

4 62

a person who was an agent?

Mrs. Scaletti. I would say I have nev er known anybody
who was an agent who did not have a 201 file. I will put it
that way.

Mr. Goldsmith. Would the 201 file contain information
eeteeitinG to the individual's operational activity?

Mrs. Scaletti. Not necessarily.

Mr. Goldsmith. Where would that information be contained

Mrs. Scaletti. In the project.®

Mr. Goldsmith. In the project file?

Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.

Mr. Goldsmith. If you wanted to find out all the project
that a particular individual had been involved in, assuming you
had a need to know, you are the Director.

Mrs. Scaletti. If I were the Director you would turn tha
place over, you would have thousands and thousands-of man year.

Mr. Goldsmith. ~ You could not, for example, just get out
of the file of that individual a list of all his projects?

Mrs. Scaletti. No. Some people are very careful and
they keep all this in a file. Some people don't. All the
budgeting and reporting on activities comes in by project, not
by man.

Now, you could possibly do research by getting the first
time he requested and trysto get a cryptonum. Then you can

track this, track that but I tell you -=

001771

re

t


63

Mr. Goldsmith. If you had the cryptonum would that not H

nD

refer you to all the person's projects?

ray

Mrs. Scaletti. No, because you could use an old crypto- i

B

nym and keep it on even though he is on different projects

5 | that don't have a cryptonym. i

on

He Mr. Goldsmith. Do you have any reason to believe that

H Oswald may have been a KGB agent?

Mrs. Scaletti. That is what probably came to my mind

o

when I read the information that he was in the Soviet Union
1¢ | and came out with a.wife and then he was in contact with the

11 | Soviets in Mexico because that would be standard operating

| procedure for the Soviets to meet someone.in Mexico. That is

e 13 }-the only reason I would have believed so.

ig | Mr. Goldsmith. Do you have any reason.to believe that
1s | Oswald had any type of relationship with the Central Intelli-
16 4 gence Agency?

7 Mrs. Scaletti. No, none whatsoever.

12} Mr. Goldsmith. When you had access to Oswald's 201
1g | file you saw no indication in there that he had any type of
20 relationship with the Agency as an agent, source, asset, et
31 | cetera?

@ 15 if Mrs. Scaletti.. No, none whatsoev er. There certainly i
22 i
+3 | would not have gone out all this cable traffic if anybody along;
. 1
4 |the way had known he was an asset. You would not have gone out}

with traces and things.

001772 —



a 64

\
ran
14

Mr. Goldsmith. If he was an agent would you have.noti=

fied the Mexico City station?

a Mrs. Scaletti.. Yes.
4] Mr. Goldsmith. Would that normally be done as a matter
3 | of standard operating procedure?
| :
6 | Mrs. Scaletti. Yes.. Then somebody would be very upset
i

that it was an agent in Mexico without telling the Chief of

Station because the Chief of Station is responsible for all

operational activities in his area. i
i

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether the Mexico City
i

11 | station was ev er criticized for failing to obtain a photograph:
|

of Oswald during his stay there? : i

-@ 1S | ke Mrs. Scaletti. No,-I don't.
is | : Mr. Goldsmith. Do you think it is unusual that. Oswald
1s. | after having made five or six visits to the Soviet and Cuban

; compounds managed to avoid being photographed?

7 Mrs. Scaletti. I don't know whether you can say he

i
13 | managed to avoid being photographed. -What you can say is that
19 il we have not found a photograph or we don't believe we have

20 | found a photograph. Also, the photographic LPs are not 24

hour a day operations. Sometime the person maybe goes to the
| bathroom or they miss something or the person comes in early

+z | or a person comes in late or you just get a shot, it is the

i
| back.
i

2s 5 Mr. Goldsmith. I understand that. We have a situation i
i i

i 7

i

|

|

_ 001773
een

pe ws

aed, a3

9

HW 50955 Docla: 32277223 Page 67 i


A il ibe
VETTE |

where Oswald made five or six vistis at least. Apparently

'
i.

he was never photographed.

a

}
Mrs. Scaletti. Then if he was not photographed, he was |
i
i:
j

i

not photographed.

| unusual that the Agency station would have gone on for so:long

i

i

| |

! |
3 Mr. Goldsmith. I understand. Do you think that it is i

\ i

i i

i

with regard to Mr. Oswald?

roy

Mrs. Scaletti.’° I'don't know. I would say I would have i
|

iH
$ thought the likelihood -- if I had gotten all the take from all)
io the people, because the photographic LPs. sometimes did not ‘
a give you all the photographs that were taken, they would give
12 you what they got ea but if you got every negative from every |
-@ : 13 i shot. from every camera during those times I would have thought \

If | you would have had a photograph. What you might have had were

a

shots. that were blurrred or backs of heads or something that

16 | you could not’ identify.

W7 Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether Owsald was ever

i

i

i

|

1

i

|

18 |) debriefed by the CIA when he returned from the Soviet Union?

i

i

|

!

i

|

i

ig | Mrs. Scaletti. I have no way of knowing that. I have
i}

20 || no reason to think he was.

ZI Mr. Goldsmith. Would it have been standard operating

22 il procedure to have interviewed him, debriefed him? :
|
Mrs. Scaletti. That hs nothing to do with the DDO. What !

section would do that I have no idea. Besides, that would be

the Soviet Branch. We wouldn't have had anything to do with it:

001774

4
i
HW 50955 pocla: 33277223 Page 68 Le 4 Pv) A ag



66

i
i
Mr. Goldsmith. I am talking about based on your experi-
|

rs

ence at the Agency. Apparently he would have been someone of
interest. He worked at a radio factory while he was in Russia.

Mrs. Scaletti. I don't know how much about how the

|
{
Soviet Branch handled it. What they were interested in. I
: |
\

$ | really cannot answer that.

Hi Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know the name of Alexis Davison? |

a Mrs. Scaletti. Alexis? |

| i

a Mr. Goldsmith. Alexis. i

|

| |

fall = i

10 | Mrs. Scaletti. No. |

i eo ee

4 i

|

F 2 | Mr. Scaletti. . No. H
i !

-@ % 13 | “ Mr. Goldsmith. Precilla Johnson McMillan? i
t i

Mrs. Scaletti. No.

is I Mr. Goldsmith. ee

164 Mrs. Scaletti. No.
i : i
wih Mr. Goldsmith. George DeMoreschild? : H
i
1a | Mrs. Scaletti. No.

19 | Mr. Goldsmith. 3. Walton Moore?

Mrs. Scaletti. No.

Mr. Goldsmith. Morris Bishop?

Mrs. Scaletti. No.

Mr. Goldsmith. Do you know whether David Phillops ever

used the name of Morris Bishop as an operational alias?

Mrs. Scaletti. I have no way of knowing.

001775

HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 69


NW 50955

w

a.

un

i
4

Docld:39277223 Page 70 4 |

‘which. particular individual.

; forget, it is like handling members of your family. If it is

ee
ial

67

Mr. Goldsmith. Have you ever used any operational
aliases?

Mrs. Scaletti. I guess so. Not a regular one with any
particular person.

Mr. Goldsmith. ,Let me ask you this then, again based

on your general experience with the. Agency. Is it customary
for someone over the years to use many different operational
aliases, as many as a 100, for example? |
Mrs. Scaletti. A 100 sounds like an awful lot. Some

people could change. It depends on the sensitivity of the place
or how. small it.is. You. could use the same operational alias
with three or four people or you'could change operational

\
aliaes with every single person. |
|
i
i

Mr. Goldsmith. If you changed it for every single person

you. would have a tough time remembering which one you used for

Mrs. Scaletti. No, you really wouldn't because, don't

a surveillance team of course you would use one name with ten
or 15 people, whoev er is on the team, Say you handle ten

people with an alias. That is just like talking to ten of

your children. Youare not going to forget that.
\
A lot of times it is only a first name alias. Then when
i
ie daa move to a different city or different station either you i
i

can use the same alia all over again with different people or

001776
ary

i
i

THe Ss

vagy
at

fae
as
5a

ge)



ay

wai

68

you can use a new alias. These are people you are talking
to every single day. It is not like remembering "gee, what did
I call myself four months ago when I talked to so and so.”

Mr. Goldsmith. I have no furhter questions. I would

like to thank you very much for-giving us this interview time.
6 || We have gone over the hour that I originally anticipated.

As I said ati:the outset the Committee at a hearing nor-

oo

mally gives the witness five minutes to make a statement. This

i

9 | is not a hearing but if you would like an opportunity to make
i
i

10 ; a statement at this time, please feel. free to do so.

Mrs. Scaletti. The only think I wrote down when I

i
j
|

2 i thought you were a little confused, not confused but I didn't
i
i think you had a real fine appreciation for, was the organiza-

1
i
tion of the Agency and how we move around... Why can't I remember

1s where I sat and who. worked with me in '63 versus ‘65 unless
1g | there is something that happened, like I know maybe where I

17 sat when I got married or things like that.

|
1
|
i
You a@n be working on a desk one day and that morning you |
are asked to go to another desk 6r that morning you lose four
people and then you are without somebody and within the last
y year when I was back from overseas I sat at the same desk but
| I had a couple of different bosses. The desk under me rotated

twice.

\

At one point I only had three people working under me.

i Another time I had 20. So it is very, very volatile. It is

004777

i A
HW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 71 Te


ose
&

a 69

not a set pattern. You may have a slot there but you don't

2) | have the people or then you have the people plus you have
3 | TD¥'s coming in and out. It is a constantly) .changing thing.

It is not an easy thing unless somebody has been overseas at

!
if

= i a station which is pretty steady, but at the headquarters jobs
i :
i

6 || there is an awful lot of movement and a lot of changing. You

7 | are pulled out to go and do a special assignment or you are

& | asked to write this or somebody down the hall isn't there and
i

9 i they will drop a file on your desk and say “look, we have to

1g get. a meassage out on this and please do this."

You do it and ‘forget it the next day because you have
handled it-sbecause there was a crisis and somebody wanted

something done. It is not a.set pattern, it doesn't change for

i144} six months or one year. or something like,that, There is an
awful lot of change.

_-Mrs-Goldsmith. Thank you very much.

I would like to add that the entire record of this

ia i deposition will be transcribed and you will be given an oppor-

tunity to sign it and to verify it. Our office will notify you
‘through the Office of the Legislative Counsel at the CIA and
z1 | I would like to state for the record that the court reporter

is to certify that the transcript is a complete, accurate and

23] true record of all the testimony given here today.

(Whereupon, at 3:20 p.m., the deposition was concluded)

>

=

came
aa
cs

ang

fe
a ie

seman

4
NW 50955 DocId:32277223 Page 72 J

&

001778 7

i
|

|
}
|
H
i
|
|
|

|
|


NW 50955

we

Docla:

|.or counsel employed by the parties thereto, nor financially or

70

CERTIFICAT OF NOTARY PUBLIC
I, Alfred Joseph Lafrance, the officer before whom the
foregoing deposition has taken, do hereby certify that the

witness whose testimony appears in the foregoing deposition was

duly sworn by me; that the testimony of said witness was taken
‘by. me in shorthand and to the best of my “ability and thereafter
reduced in typewriting under my direction, that said deposition}
is a true record of the testimony given by said witness; that

I am neither counsel for, related to, nor employed by any of th

parties to the action in which this deposition was taken; and

i
'

e
!
H
i
further that I-am not a relative. or employee of any attorney i
{
1
Ee
otherwise interested in the outcome of the action. i
|
i
H
i

Notary Public in and for |
the District of Columbia H

My Commission expires November 14, 1980.

001779 |


71

|
CERTIFICAT OF NOTARY PUBLIC

|
I, ‘ , the officer before whom the

foregoing deposition was taken, do hereby certify that the

|
+] witness whose testimony appears to the foreoging deposition was!
|

duly sworn by me; that the testimony of said witness was taken

by , shorthand reporter, and there-|

o

that I am neither counsel for, related to, nor employed by any

i
i
)
|
after reduced to typewriting by him or under his direction; |
|
i
|

of the parties to the action in which this deposition was takeni,
and further that I am not a relative or employee of any

|
i
attorney or counsel employed by the parties thereto, nor i

C

financially or otherwise interested in the outcome of the action.
|
|
{
i
{
\
i
|

i Noyary Public

!
|
i

An17R80

