# 180-10142-10488

## Page 1

180-10142-10488

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Summary OF CI soft file on the

unidentified man photographs.

pEspArEd by DAN HAndwAy

3/15/78

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE./

........

.....-.

10142-10488

---

## Page 2

CI Soft File on mmm photo.

1. Blind memo dated 5/5/77:

'"'Avaresult ofa detailed

search of old records forwarded

to Mashington from Mexico

City, three of the original

reports of the "Unidentified

man" were located. Accordisg

as reported in Mere 64530f

8 October 1963) from 1216 to /222

hours (local time) andon 4October

15om.1115 to/137 hours.-

he same man visited the

Cuban Consulate at 1115 hours

IN 15 October 1943. 2/ 3he

recordo.contain.negatives.of.

into jam o photographs.

frames were sent to.

Headquarters.asa.part.of th

station file on Oscala because

this man.was mistakend?

linked to the Orato investi...

gation before it. was known

that.@swald.had.left.Mexico

---

## Page 3

Ety before this an ant

there additional frames

will be printed and filed.

with the other photograph

n. 201-281248 Merica-file br

these photographs add no

2. Photographs of the unidenti-

edman were provided lu

three siperate unilateral sorro

she original records evere loca

ted for

two of these sauroes..

(This is a report for 2,4, and 15.

October 1963) The other records

are beliersed to howe been

for more: recent records. 3)

IN/I

---

## Page 4

-3÷

2

the delaw

... It was discussed in Dave

Phillips bookasa result. case

oflaziness on the part of

the loriet case officen fuhich

and unnecessary and indicates

that Dave Disttes didn't know

of. the and of October The

Russian language portion

wouldhave.go.ne.to.th

Russian / english transcribe

ow the 3nd of actober, the

tranalation would. have

been returned the following.

(ath) at which time, ith

sayiet case officer world

have asked for the photographic

coverage. dhat coverage would.

not have been in the station

before the ith since the film

---

## Page 5

was still in the camero.on

the ind of October and it

work day which would

have been Monday > October.

3. hater the film was taken

but at that time, the by ay

ut of the camera ever

target in the carman tatele

which night take three or

forin days

been angrate could house.

of the name alone but that

wasn't the way thin soo

Min Scatt

the.photographic.coverage

tied in with

did as tuna abiogant

---

## Page 6

- 5-

3_

Da Spanish; boamb picture

5. og from Cubenb photo

m #260 10/15/63 nogN

in English. The entre

in the

hog about the Mmm say.

"Man;sent to the Consulate."

Memo (blind) ed dated 5/2/77

2 on a may 10d hit orito.

the phanentors Records Centere

to reviece old Mexiço City files.

in search of additional photo

sets of the steering

---

## Page 7

?.

-6-

material were re-used to

forward more recent photo=

graphic material to Headquarters

for retention... Dispatch HMMI

11,318, dated 17 March 1972. Photos

were filled in re-usedsubject

and "'" folders (equivalent of.

subrect 201 foldess indicatin

contents of

original subjecti

an'"' files were destroyed

Ref (to previous shijement.)

HMMA 40, 562, 21 Many-19,71"

Blind; undated memo entitled

"Mexico station Coverage of

soviet and Cuban emirassias

(19663)":

I There were three Thats

coverage sites on the soviet

embassy. One was directly

across the street from the

sorriet gate. The second.

covered the backyard of th

the first.one..

was closed wher the statio

leaned that the Havens

I4/2

---

## Page 8

-7-

ommission was going to

aublish a copy. of the

Anmphotograph

b These three bases were

managed bijan agent who

ass mesican citizen te

two main bases three times

a week. The film usas then

deselojped.and.printed.onto

Sxio contact print sheets ly

another recrited autoide

agent

the sarret embassi

to 19ố Đn thật yeay theo

---

## Page 9

-&=

d In 1961 the COS became

the case office, for the

operatin merican stencept

officer assisted in daily

supersion and picked up

the tapes and transcripts

there.was.also.and@messcass

technician at the listening.

past

¿ In mid-1962 the Mexican

authorities asked for the

Chone numbers of the Cuban

soviet and Satellite Embassie

hi CIA Station then discon.

nectedall of their rimilateral 24

laps..dhe?Mexicans.did.pu.t

in tapes on 5 doricet +5

Cuban lines. Alive moniter.

at the listening post made

short summaries of the

2rN/2

---

## Page 10

-9-

were completed, usually

taken to Boris Parasaff for

trasolation; "the translations

rawabouta week

sation"

dentifigina

himself as

heedswald phoned the boviet

embass is an toda

pastur

all photographs, However, h

again, there was a backlog.

because the photographs were

ricked up three times week.

wut thare picked up were.

usually fordates.a.bewdays

before since the technicia

did as procestabl

Further, photographs were not

made.initially untila.con lete

rall of filin was used. Later

this was changed and the

aperator cleared the camera.

---

## Page 11

=10-

cores the intire work day

office host and to miles apa

all foreigners, and cars with

foreiga license plates. Biona

errordidaccin butgenerally

the agents. were conscientious

The Cuban embassy coverage

had more sophisticated

equijiment usinga pulse

camera which frequently

developed mechanica

difficuald came to the.

attention of the listenin

past operators tomas:

was picked upand taken

to Mi. Boris darasaff for

translation because th

caller was trying to spane

delta brong the pe gone.

---

## Page 12

11

with the typed transcript.

There are several cables and

memos about a tentative

identification.of.themmm

Moskaler", a KGB officer..

10 F86 77: "Mates made by A

Hoopartine for fahn

Leaders IGItaff.

a the three photo sites wer

handled but Ramon Alisare,...

he callested the filmand his

Irötler in-law printedit.

o the agents used in the

inilatera@phone.tapes.wes

Frank;Estancona.and

c. Charles Flick Juas a T.50

officer. who was jout inside

DMIS

---

## Page 13

Hole tape an harie

OCOs: alan Nabsite (4/63-9/65)

David Phillps (9/61-3144

Humnas Beckmany asst

--8/62-9/44)

Cutes Ops: Robent Ahai, Chiel

Ray 3 e (1/23-1/h5.

Lorna Mackay: 10/63-5/65

Nave Phillips Chief

(8 163 - 6/65

Soviet tArgEt: Hechert MANsIl 9/59-8/65

I ("

William Bright (5/64→7/45)

MEL Beck

Outside. CO.(6/62-1/42)

-244

Support Assets

EUNilAt PhONE tAp: ThomAs KEINAN (760-10%

Outside. CO: David Nested.

{49-317

EUNiLA PhotO, CUbANS:

Robert ZAmbErNArdil 615-9-7164

In/8

---

## Page 14

13

Sovist vilAt| Photo:

Luis D Puckett 6/58 - 6/63.

Thomas Henan 6/63-10/64

Iliarson phone tajas.

Stoodpasture

62-68

Charles Flick 61-71

ITSD Qubide Umit

Isken Middlen 4/53-12/65.

2. Sood pastive took the rel

tot Manells) who would

then get it to the Farasaffs

...D...

Memorandum.prepared.by

no Rocoa for the

Rackeblller.Comm

stay in Mexico. City that

month,

ĐM/г

---

## Page 15

14

in Medicocity

It won time during his stay

l-aca

unea photo af

Oswald. a careful seview

of all coverage was conducted

after the assassination

troluding material bals

1963. thisconfirmed

that there was no CIA

Mexiço

bleat

atthough it had made a.

sequent si petal tha

had no photo af Oswala

in his records nor did he

recieve one from Head-

Quarters -which did not

have one other-before

22 Movember 1963"

---

