# 197-10002-10187

## Page 1

197-10002-10187

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date

Page

:

05/20/97

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : USA

RECORD

NUMBER

: 197-10002-10187

RECORDS SERIES

: HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

TITLE : CIA TDCS-3/566,031

: 11/28/63

NETHERLANDS: REACTION TO OSWALD'S COMMUNIST SYMPATHIES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DooId: 32281395

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORTI

TELEGRAM

CONTRAC

MACINGI

SECRET

CLASSINCATION S

COUNTALA

ALAND IN NEAR LONAL

SUWIGT

ON CONTRO

KU FOREIGN DA SEN

онлай тоска /566, 0312

DATE DISTI

COMMUNIS

NOS

RLACTION TO INFORMATION

INDICATINO: THE

COMMUNIST SYMPATHIES OF LIC OSWALD

963

PRECEDENCI

ROUTINE

DAME OP

INFO

PLACE &

DAT ẠCO

APPRAISAL 3

SOURCE

25 NOVEMBER 1963

REFERENCES

69396

NETHERLANOS, THE HAGUE (27 NOVEMBER 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO.

ONH:1 3260

MBREEGEATHIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATI

A MIDDLE LEVEL: COMMUNIST WITH. REGULAR ACCES

TOPFPARTY OFFICTALS."

AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY, THE COMMUNIST

PARTY OFTHE NETHERLANDS REACTED TO THE NEWS OFFLEE OSWALD'S

COMMUNIST SYMPATHIES IN THE FOLLOWING MANNER: A DETAIL OF 38

MEN. WAS ESTABLISHED TO GUARD, OVER THE COURSE OF THE 23 TO 24

NOVEMBER WEEKEND, THE PARTY'S FELIX MERITIS HEADQUARTERS BUILDING.

•2:

ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963 THE GUARD WAS WITHDRAWN AND THE DUTCH

FLAG WAS FLOWN AT: HALF MAST.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

3• FIELD. DISSEM:, STATE..:

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

От.

5114/97

CLASSIFICATION DISSEI

SECRET

AND OFNMESSAGE

TION CONTROLS

TU

FOREIGN DISSEM

14 00 36

112502

TELEGRAM

TELEGRAM

ACTION

DISTRY

DA

1K

INFORMATION REPORT

ACS,

OSD

AGSI

DCSOR

554751

SECRET

---

