{198-10004-10207| (2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10004-10207

RECORD SERIES: = CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ARMY
JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS,

TITLE: | INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF CUBAN AFFAIRS: REPORT ON
THE STATUS OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER SUBVERSION

DATE: — OL/10/1964
PAGES: 62

SUBJECTS :
COUNTERINSURGENCY
CUBAN SUBVERSION
LATIN AMERICA SECURITY

DOCUMENT TYPE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTION Ic
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 10. Army memo from Joseph Califano to Mr. Crimmins on status of
actions to counter Cuban subversion in Latin America with other related documents.

PFE Pepa ten he coSh Levert

artment of the Army EO 19526
Besley © Exclude © Exempt

Authonty

© Reter Tc
rodow ono REEL , ADA

wl

w

HW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 1


SECRET)

Lt Col Haig/78029/8 Jan 64/md

HAN 169

MEMORANDUM FOR MR, JOHN H. CRIMMINS
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

i SUBJECT: interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
: Affairs: Report on the Status of Implementation of
| Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Enclosed herewith ie the Report on the Status of Implementation
of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion for the period 1 December
1963-1 January 1964, The format of this report adheres to the topic
outline disseminated at the meeting of the Subcommittee ca Subversion,
September 13, 1963,

It is requested that thie office be provided with 12 copies of the
final report. It is assumed that each of the representatives will have
an opportunity to consider the final report before it is forwarded.

| i a
| ie genepi A. Califano,Jre

~ Soseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Enclosure : 7
Ae Stated = -

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig

RYVALS;
YEARS.

DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 2

¥SO

VaNO- ESE

9 /ot/t

£9/0€/T Ma



SEC REL

STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE
PERIOD 1 DEC 63 -.1 JAN 64

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guergillas and Arms.

a. General A. P, O'Meara, USA, Commander«in-eChiei, US
Southern Command, met with Vice Admiral Ray C. Needham, USN,
Chief of Staff to Comraander-in-Chief, Atlantic and members of their
reopective staffa during the period 11 to 15 December 1963. Discus-
siong encompassed methods of improving the existing surveillance/

intercept system throughout the Caribhean, Existing US plans were
reviewed, continuance of the ship visit program instituted in Novem~
ber 1963 was agreed upon, and combined exerciges to test country
capabilities to intercept simulated intruding ships were planned for
early execution. Diacussions by General O'Meara Were continued
with the Secretary of the Army and with representatives of the State
Department, CLA and the Joint Staff, Joiat Chicfs of Staff.

b. Commander Mine Division 44 with minesweepers USS
STURDY and USS SWERVE completed visits to Central American
ports in Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Daficieacies in the
capabilities of all threes countries te counter eubversive infiltration
were reported. Additional visita, designed to aasict in correcting
deficiencies, are planned. USCINCSO also plane, through Commandera
of US Military Groups, to assist in developing existing capabilities.

s. Gased upon information from CAS Panama representative
on 8 November, USCINCSO directed US operations to find a small
beat which veportedly leit the Colon Free Zone with a carge of arms
destined for the vicinity of the Colombian-Venezuclan border. Day-~
light visual aerial surveillance flights were inctituted immediately,
with radar-cquipped aircraft taking over surveillance during hours
ef darkness. Colombian and Veneszuclan authoritica were notified
through US diplomatic channels, but no direct communications
between US surveillance aircraft and Colombian forces in the
vicinity of the probable landing area were established before termi-
vation on 14 November. This effort, though not successful, has
evoked considerable effort by US State Department, Defense Depart-
ment ang CIA activities to improve capabilities and procedures,

AOD Sik 5200.10

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 3



SECRET

da. Action wae commenced in the Colon arca to provide means
to keep track of shipa and heats estering or leaving the Colom Free
Zone in order to monitor the movements of those suspected of carrying
contraband, Assistance to USCINGSO wan provided from the continental
United States in carrying out surveys as to equipment required on au
secretive a basic as possible, and special optical equipment to include
probable night television wae approved by the Scerctary of the Army
for expedited delivery to USCINGSO.

e. A joint survey and mobile training team from USCINCSO
continued assistance to Venesuelan authorities in improving indigenous
capabilities for surveillance and interception of intruders.

i. A US Southern Command Operations Plan $0-63 was developed
to provide for thres levels of operational assistance to Vencauela in
surveillance and intercept operations. Representatives of the US Strike
Command and the Air Defense Coramand visited USCINCGSO to assist in
developing detailed supporting plana.

g- laformation was obtained by USCINCSO concerning in-country
communications capabilities of Colombia and Venezuela to receive and
digseminate surveillance information provided by US forces,

$. Strengthoning of Counterinsurgency Capabilities.

&. US Army training included the following: 15 students from 6
¢ountries completed Cl operations course in the Canal Zone; § studente
from 5 countries completed Ci orientation course in the Canal Zene;

24 ahidents from 8 countries completed Military Imtélligence course
in the Canal Zone; 1 Chilean students completed special Military
Intelligence orientation course; three Canal Zone-based Cl Mobile
Training Teame (MTT) carried out training programe in Ecuador,
Perw and Venezucla; and one Canal Zone-based Cl MTT commenced
@ training program of Panamanian National Guardemen.

bo. US Navy training included the following:
(2) The Small Craft Inspection and Training Team
(SCIATT) completed training the third claes of Central Amesican
eationals, bringing to 63 the total number of students trained since
May 1963.

2

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 4



SECRET

(2) The semiannual meintenanee check of two
Panamanian 40 foot Coast Guard Utility Boats (CGUBe) was com~-
snenced on 16 December by an on-the-job training (OJT} program.
Work should be completed by 10 January 1964,

43) Worth waa temporarily suspended on two 40 foot
@GUSe in Costa Rica dus te the lack of evitizal epare parte. It is
anticipated work will be completed by 15 January 1964.

¢. Increases in the steck levels of the Canal Zone stockpile
of tiot contral equipment were divected on 20 December 1963. In-
creases will enable USCINCGSO te respond to urgent requests fron
Latin Americen governments. Buildup concerned primarily tear
85 grenades, gas masks, carbines and shotgun aramunition.

4, Final arrangements were made with the Bertram Boat
Company of Miami for delivery of 10 outboard-inboard fiber glase
beats te Cabamis, Venezuela for use in the Lake Maracaibo area.
Boats, spares and an MTT will be delivered to destination by
14 January 1964.

¢. Action has been taken to expedite the shipment of radic-
electronic gear to Jamaica for use in the joint surveillance program
designed to combat Castro-inspired insurgency in the Caribbean
area. Equipment should arrive in Jamaica within the nest few weeks.

{, & US Air Force Air Commando MTT demonstrated in
Asuncion, Paraguay.

8. Other Special Actions.

a. Latin American Military Cormunications System (LAMGCS)
in Ecuador and Nicaragua and the Ground-to-Air facilities in Ecuador
have been completed.

b. Authority to proceed with the LAMCS in Honduras was
received from the US State Department on 17 December 1963. This
facility should be completed within 120 daya.

ec. Emergency power units to improve reliability of US Army
and Air Force Migsion radio stations in Colombia and Venezuela,
shipped from the United States, arrived in Begota and Caracaa ree-
pectively.

3

Séorer

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 5



BRON wp

353 091.411 020 201
CUBA : aay Staff Reynolds, John
* SECRET : eee CeSs

1-263

From: John Reynolds, &CS
To: C/Staff
Subj: Interdepartmental Coordinating Comte of Cuban Affairs: Rpt on Status of

Implementation of Agtions Designed to Counter Subversion (U)

tw Incl: None
Dis: Cole Haig 1-3-64 OSA 3004
FW 1-30-63

vso.

ese

eqng

€9-2"T

€9-OE"T Ma

OSA FORM 3 THIS PAPER BELONGS TO:
S1 MAY 49 Administrative Support Group Division, Office of the
Secretary of the Army

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE; 1963-ee3865

NW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 6



AW 50955

CONFIDENTIAU

cee SAOGC/LtColHaig/1c/59856/18Dec63 -

December 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL WADE ROBERT
Office of the Secretary of Defense
{International Security Affairs)

SUBJECT: State Paper Entitled "Terrorism in the Latin
American Countries on the Critical Insurgency List"

Enclosed herewith is a paper prepared by a member of the
Cuban Coordinating Committee at the Department of State (Mr,
William Bowdler, 182-3736) for use by the Department of State
representative at the Special Group (Counterinsurgency) meeting on
December 19, 1963. The paper was provided to this office by State
on December 18 with the request that Department of Defense
comments, particularly on the basic memorandum, be obtained.
Although this office is very much concerned with the aspects of the
paper which deal with the problem of Castro-inspired subversion,
the broader implications of the paper pertain to the Latin American
area and the military assistance programs related thereto, These
are, of course, matters of primary concern to your office. There-
fore, the attached paper is forwarded to you for appropriate action
with the request that your comments, if any, be coordinated with
this office so that they can be correlated to actions currently under
the purview of this office,

Signedt  \
A. Me Haig
Lt Colonel, USA

L oseph A, Califano, Ir.
General Counsel

Enclosure
As Stated

yyy. -
i i oba, @SG

Mr Califano
LtCol Haig

CONFIDENTIAL

Doclda:32276192 Page 7

9-81-21 vano €s€ VSO

€9°0ee! Md



CONFIDENTIAL

SAOGC/ LtColHaig/1c/59856/18Dec63

December 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR DIRECTOR, DDR&E
Office of the Secretary of Defense

SUBJECT: Anti-Sabotage Operations in Latin America

The Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affairs (ICCOCA) has recently considered to provide
guidance to US firms in Latin America confronted with Castro-
communist inspired sabotage of their facilities and assets, has
contracted for the preparation of a report which will consolidate the
experiences of several US firms in Latin America in combatting
sabotage, After consideration by the ICCOCA this report will be
| furnished through our country teams in Latin America to local US
firms to asaist them in instituting appropriate anti-sabotage programs.

| I would be most grateful if vou would prepare a brief report
designed to supplement hich would include enumera-

- tion of general guidelines which might be adopted by US firms in the
Latin American area in combatting sabotage. In particular, an
enumeration of known appropriate anti-sabotage devices available on
the commercial market together with the manufacturer's names would
be most helpful.

A member of my staff has discussed this project with Mr.
Pheips of your staff, who has indicated that DDR&E might be of assist-
ance in this matter based on.a recent field trip to Venezuela where
problems peculiar to that area were studied at the request of the US
Ambassador, It is also possible that commercial devices developed
for South Vietnam would have applicability in Latin America, Because
this project is designed for distribution to. several Latin American
countries, it is requested that where possible guidelines be developed
which might have general application throughout Latin America, but
with emphasis on key subversive target areas. Present plans antici-
pate finalization of this project by December 23, 1963.

Signed:

Ac M. Haig
i Mt Colonei, usa’
eMioseph A, Califano, Jr.
i ody, rer Aes General Counsel
Mr Califano

| ae ee CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 8

€9°etoZT vend €s€ vso

€9°0eeT ma



a7 QEC S65

MEMORANDUM POR MR, JOHN GH, CRIMMINS
Geordinater of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

SUBJECT: interdepartmental Coordinating Conimittae of Cuban
Affairs: Report on the Status of implementation of
Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Eaclesed herewith is the Repert on the Statue of Laplementation
of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion for the period 1 November-
i December 1963. The format of this report adheres to the tepic eut-
Hine dieserninated at the casi of the Subcommittee on Subversion,
Septamber 13, 1963.

itis requested that this office be provided with 12 copies af the
final report. li is asaumed that exch of the representatives will have
an opportunity to consider the final report before it ig forwarded.

igned
= Joseph A. Califano. Tro

doseph A. Callfena, Ix,
General Counsel

Eaclosure
As Stated

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG..

SG. ae

,

2ECKELYUA OL IME VUWA
OLRIGE

DEC IQ @ 2 WH ,e9

OLLIGE
Coowomy see

HE SEGRE RNY 1

OSA, ASE Contral Na zee

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 9

wana €s€ VSO

QoL Tezt

Ma

SE~)

eae

6?


SECRED

STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO.
COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE
PERIOD 1 NOV - 1 DEC 1965 :

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrilias and Arms.

a. Gn 9 November 1963 the Commander-in-Ghiei, US
Southern Command (USCINCSO) advised the Joint Chiefa of Staft
(ICS) of reports concerning suspected eubversive arma emuggling
into Veneguela or Colombia from the Colon Free Zone, Panama.
USCINGSO initiated surveillance at first light on 9 November 1963
to detect and track surface veesele which might be engaged in the
subversive traffic. The ICS directed the Coramander-in-Chief,
Atlantic (CINCLANT) to commence surveillance with radar equipped
aizeragt and to keep USCINCSO advised of all information. Sue-
pected craft were not positively identified or intercepted; however,
there weve indications that an unidentified surface veasel off the
Ric Hacha area of Colombia and in Colombian watere was probably
in contact with smail boats operating from the Colombian coastline
at night. ~

b.. An directed by the Joint Chicfs of Staff, USCINESO
developed a plan under which the United States could provide assist-
ance to Venenuelan forces, on three levels of participation, designed
te prevent the surreptitious movement of Castro~Coramunist arms
and personnel inte Venesuela. Yo be fully effective, the plan calls
for US elements operating from Veneauclan territery which is not
considered a likely subject for approval by the Government of
Venesuela at the pregent time,

c. A joint survey ang mobile training team of eleven men was
provided by USCINCSO to Verczuela on 22 Novamber 1963, upon
apptoval of the concept by the Government of Veneeucla. The purpose
of the team ie te train Venesuelan military personnel in organizing
and operatiag a jeint operations center; in improving capabilities
in the plotting and coordination of intelligence data, and aerial photo-
graphy; and in coordinating all Venezuelan military and paramilitary
organizations involved in surveillance and intercept operations.

DOWNGRADED AT EAR INTERVALS
Un DECLASSIF 12 YEARS
SECRET, DOD DIR 5200.10

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 10



: SECRET

5. Strengthening of Counteringurgency Capabilities.

3. Two niineeweepers from the US Atlantic Command, USS
STURDY and USS SWERVE with Commander Mine Division 44 em-
barked, commenced.a schedule of visite te Caribbean ports in Costa
Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemali, Visite are intended to assist each
country in improving its coastal and off-shore gurveillance effort,
to improve intercept capabilities with reapect to the prevention of
infiltration of arms and subversive persomal through the countries!
territorial waters, and to edtablish procedures which would provide
for US assintance in final interception when requested. Visits in
Novernber, under tha supervision of USCINCEO, covered Puerto
Limon, Costa Rica; Bluefields and Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua; and
Puerto Barrios, Guatemala.

b, Seventy-cight Latin American officers, previously en<
rolled, were in attendance during November at courses otresaing
counterinaurgency conducted by the US Army Canal Zone school.
Two officers graduated from the US Army Counteringurgency Course
at Fort Bragg, North Carolina on 12 November 1963 and two addi-
tional officers are now in attendance.

e«. Seven US Army Countetinaurgency Mobile Training Teams
based in the Canal Zone, consisting of twenty officers and thirty-five
enlisted men, provided training in seven Latin American countries
during Novernber.

@. Nine enlisted men from Chile were in attendance at
Marine Corpa schools at Camp Pendleton, California in November.

e. WS Coast Guard training in small boat operations was
provided in the Canal Zone for fifteen atudents from five Caribbean
countries in the operation and maintenance of forty-foot Coast Guard
utility boate. A Coast Guard mobile training team of one officer and
two enlisted men, based in the Canal Zone, provided training in
Costa Rica for the reconditioning of Coast Guard utility beats. Five
members of the Costa Rican Guardia Civil are receiving on-the-job
teaining in cennection with reconditioning of the boats.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 11



& AUS Air Force counterineurgency team of five officers
and eight eallsted mon, based in the Ganal Zone, provided training
fox Ecuadorian Air Force personnel in Ecuador.

g- At the request ef USCINSO, and with the enthusiastic
Support of the Venesuclan Government, a small boat program hae
been initlated to provide security for the Lake Maracaibo region,
Arrangements have been made through the US Navy under Military
Credit Sales agreement for the manufacture of dix (6) 25-feot and
four (4) 31-foot inboard-outboard, fiberglass hull beats by Bertram
Boat Company, Miami, for delivery in December 1963 or early
January 1964. A SEAL-trained Mobile Tratning Team (MTT) of
one officer and five enlisted men will be provided by the Navy and
will report to the equipment supplier in time to become fully ac-
quainted with the boats by 1$ December. The MTT will accompany
the boats to Venezuela and will remain up to two months in country
to provide neceseary familiarization training,

6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Surveillance,

a. Upon receipt of intelligence pertaining to suapected arms
amuggling from the Canal Free Zone, Panama into Colombia or
Venezuela, the USCINCSO relayed this information to Colorabia and
Venesuela by the Military Alerting System. The US Ambaseador to
Colombia conveyed the information to the Government of Gol@mbia.
Colombian Navy and Air Force elements were assigned increased
surveillance missions in the Caribbean coastal area of Colombia by
Colombian military authorities and reaults of their survelllance
activities were provided te USCINGSO by the US Military Group
Commander in Colombia. The results of US air surveillance of
the expected route and landing srea, undertaken by US Air Force
end Naval sir elements were transmitted to the US Military Group
Commander in Colombia for passage to the Colombiana military
authorities,

b. The motor vessel BLUE STAR, of Panamanian registry,

was appréhendat by Ecuadorian authorities in November 1963 aa
it wae atterapting the clandestine introduction of contraband articles

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 12



SECRET

into Eevader. Ship movement information had been provided to the
US Naval Attache Bogota by the District Intelligence Officer of the
Fifteenth Naval District. There was no apparent involverneat of
Cuban arme or Cuban trained personnel in this instance. :

%. Other Gpecial Actions,

&. Construction ie now in progress on the Latin Armerican
Military Communications System (LAMCS) in Quite, Eeuader; the
terminal station ie empected to be completed in December 1963.
The station in Nicaragua is expected to be completed in carly
December 1963.

b. In reaponse to a request by USCINTSO, action was taken
an 15 Nevember 1963 to expedite delivery of communications equip-
ment required to implement a Jamaican integrated coastal gurvelllance
system, The system wae originally approved as part of the $500
thousand one-time grant of Military Aesistance material directed
by the President in April 1963, but world-wide shortages of specific
items threatened to delay shipment in some cage until FY 1965. in
view of the urgency of this requirement, prioritics were adjusted
te provide delivery by 1 January 1964. The items include:

2 AN/GRG vadioe and iastaliation kite
AN/ARC 3 radios
AN/PSM 6
Wattmeter

we we

¢. The Joint Chiefe of Staff and the Office of Public Safety,
State-AID, are atudying the poselbility of increasing the etock level
of certain items of Riot Control Equipment ia the Ganal Zone, in order
to meet rapidly and effectively niltiple contingencies that may eccur
in Latin America, ia the past, the sige of some requests have necee#i-
tated shipment of certain items directly from the United States, with
resultant increase in cost and time, -USCINCSO has been aaked for
hie recemmendations on stock levels.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 13



OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20301

INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS:

2 DEC 1963 :
En veply refer te:
1+-28590/63
wiioatin FOR MR, Josten Ay CALIFANO, Tey CHE GENERAL, COUNSEL,
DUPARDEN OF HE ANY
UBB: Interdepartmental, Coonlinating Comittee oe’ Cuban Affairs:
Ropert oon Statud of Implementation Gf Actions’ to Counter
Subversici )
The enclosure 70 8 your Hemorandum tio. 81, subject as shove, aated
26 November 1963, has been réteived. The report appears to be
ctiplete end appropriate for cubmlssion to the President.
Siexep

Frank K. Sloan
Deputy Assistant Secretary

BOD DIR 5200.10

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 14

°
D
>
&
a
3
2
E
o
S
ie
iS
;
iS)
a
&
be
mm
Px
i
7
a
S
7
&
oS



~~ SECRET

26 NOV 4963.

|
|
|
|
|

MEMORANDUM NOG, $1 FOR GENERAL BARLE G. WHEELER (GS}
MB, FRAKE &. SLOAM, Dep Agat Sac/Pef ia,
(Begional Afieirs}
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. P. A. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL 3. W. CARPENTER, Mi, USAF
BRIGADIER GEAERAL C. J. QUILTER, UGant

suBIeeT: interdapattmental Coordinating Committee of Cuben Affaire:
Repast on Htatas of implamentation of Actions Posignued to.
Counter Subversion (2

I1_Bqn9 Est

, Reference: DA Meme O4, eubject ae ahove, dated September 19, 1963

+Atached herewith is a fimal draft of the Report to the President of
tha Subcommittee on Cohan Subversion on Pragreaw Made Daring September N
1963 ta Garbing Cuban Subversion in Latin America, S|

i¢ ie requested that comments, i any, Se provided this office by
§266 bouts, 2 Detembor 1963. The Department of Defense portion of
subject report is based oa. submissions provided in congonse te referenced
mennoranduin.

Signed
Jeseph A. Califano,Jr.
fesaph A, Califane, Jr.
General Counsel

Eacicaure
Ag Stated

ce: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)
Lt Col Haig \3 ri in
Mr. Califano a
ASG, SEGRE Ae EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC RECRADING
iL DOD DIR 5200.10 DozS NOT APPLY

OSA, RSE Contra Wika |

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 15


“prase
11/13/63

REPORT. OF TE SUB-COMMITTEE ©

< of CUBAN SUBVERSION Ce
- AOPION TAKEN DURTES SEPTEMBER 1953 IN CURBING

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA LS



1.

SEQRER | pape
Sek Ss AAAI I6S

Control of Travel to and Prom Cuba

Devartment of State

a... Instructed Embassy Tunis to call to the attention

of the Foreign Ministry our concern at increased evidence’ oy
of dexpflot attexpts to. establish North Africa routes to. J.
Guba, especially through Algeria, and our convictipa chat

Tunisis has a valid case im thwarting any Blee civil Bir

penetration of Afica. ;
be. Instructed Enbassy ee te contact Guinean Govern-
mene officials, reminding then of thele past assurances

thac no Aeroflot flights to Cuba would be permitted to.

use Conakry facilities, aad to express our concern at ve

recent indications that Jerofiot was preparing to establish ime

service to Cuba via Conakry.

HW.50955 DocTa: 32976199. Page 17 Bar CL. spore:

“es Instructed Consulate Fort ag France to investigate

aud report on alleged landing and vetvelling ef Gy! abana a

aireraft at Guadeloupe. Also double-checked directly | bet

‘with the Shell Company, the cuppiier of the fuel, 0 08

fustructed Embassy Paris to query the French Goverment -

" aheut alleged Cubena use of the Guadeloupe facility, and I

te express our concern at this evidence oF Cuba's attempt:

to use French Caribbean dependencies for. flights to and
vy Fron A



2 . ns - :
gsom Latin America. - <

A. Instructed Embassy Rie to make @ new approach to - i:

the Brazilian Foreign Ministry to express our concera
at Guba’s continuing use of “charter” flights to Brazil

and the lexity of Brazilian officials in the eoatrel of |

passengers. During the course of the woath the Brectlian ;
Goverment pote tightening controls against Cubana : ‘
.. €lighte.. Specifically, all requests for landing permiesion
were heuceforch te be processed by the Foreign Office, vee
with appropriate delays, Alise tighter passenger, crew 7
and cargo controls were to be instituted when 6 Cybana mee
- flight ds pemmleted to use Brasilien feecilities, .

e, Determined that the U.K. had specifically warned

Cubana that no aviation fuel wag available in Barbados and

thet 1M.G. woold, in the future, respect Shell Company's :

decision to deny fueling te Cabana planes,

“£. Contdoved inucer-Departmental efforte to prevent |.
vecunpelon of ferry secvice between Cuba end the a s. “
“ whdel a British eltizen, Baveld Derbesx', bag been atcompee

ing ts establish during the past several wonth.

g.

NW 50955  DocId:32276192 Page 18...


i
i

HW 50955": Deela: 32276192 “Page. 19

Se Instructed Cousu? Georgetown to investigate’ and.

mn of. Architects to cppese Argentine attendance at the :

‘obane necting, with the result that 25 of the 39

report on aevidencd the Department received which indicates:

that Cuba is. planning to seLL merchant vessels te British

, Getana in order to facilitate the establishsent ¢ of :

vegular sexvice ‘for passengers and cargo.

a

Contral Intelligence Azency = F ae : q
a. In connection with the Seventh Congress of the ~

termational Union (UTA) held in Habana Septenber ced -

Covrobert 3s 1953 the Ruenos Aires Station:

@) encouraged the Argentine Rational Federation acon

practieing architects who had planned to attend can~
celled theiz participation; te oe ;
, (2) arranged to prevent the attendance of | any

officially authorized Avgentine delegation at the Uebana |

meeting, but encouraged the attendance of an official

 Avgentine delegation of anti~Commmist coloration at an 7

international architects meeting to be heid in Mexico

ik Gcteber; -.



the Embassy with data on Cubans £lighte to Brazil used --.

_ passport control and baggane efforts. These efforts

“contributed tg the Brazilian Covernent's failing to

“HW 50955 DocTd:32276192 Page 20°. |. Sisk”

(3) delivered a memorandum to the Minister of

aa Intéstor concerning Cuban charter flights to Brasil whieh |

supported the Ambassador's request that the fagentine a
goverement express concern ever such flights.

b.. Rie de Janeiro Station soutinued co furmish

in ¥eprasentationus to the Brazilian Foreien Office. : 7

Alsa induced Rio airport officials to impose stringent

| issue landing permits for febsna flights en September» |
21, 24 and 28, 1963 forcing cheix cancellation. ‘When

Sabana, because of haragsment at Rio, begen using the |.

landing facilities Im Sag Paulo where controls were.

non existent, CIA initieced and obtained a local ifaison ©

agsecment fox similar harassment in the event of future.

Gybana flights to Sao Paulo.

e, Mexleo City etation inspired @ press campaiga ~~
of hoof and mouth arc emallpex epidemics in Cuba, pricr”

te tha Architects Congress to discourage participation

in the febana meeting. Tho raguiting quarantines and

inneculations


ce Sow et] . tah

inmnoculations gere a factor ia discouraging 52 of the

69 Hesicsn professional architects who were expected te

go to Habens from attending the Congress.

Ti. Control of Movement of Prosayanda WE 28 ESS cy
© ite nn lB Cie, Gh ioenrTal Be

NW 50955 Docld:32376192 Page 21:/-


of Clandestine Movement of Grereiilas

Made the n@cessary arrangements thesugh Embassy
Tegucigalpa with the Goverimant of Honduras for the
aispateh of three U.5. helicopters to give loxistical
assistance te the Hondsran Army in its effort te -locate : ot
and eliminate the band of guerrillas allegedly operating
im the Faraca River aves siong tho Honduran-Micaraguan -

A

> bordest.

Department of Defense

Three CH-13 helicopters irom USSOUTACOH supported

- Honduven armed forces comliueting counter-ineurgeney :
operations in-the Patuea River area. A total of 27 sorties ~

‘were flown resulting tn delivery of 3925 pounds of supplies, ”
evacuation of 12 sick Hoaduran soldiers, airlift of 19 ; .
passengers te golats in the operational area, and :
recovery of 400 pounds e< supplies from the operational
area. . , :

tv.

SECRED

NW 50955 Docld: 32276192 Page 22


HW 50955 Doc[d:32276192° Page 23. pare

@. Instructed Embassy Montes City to inform the
Mexioagn aivline SAESA that thelr proposal to purchase ;
surpies Caban atreragt would in faet resuit in che
acerual to Guba of a significant anount of hard curreacy, —
and the U.S, wowld heve to oppose the tranesetion.

Further, 1£ doliare were involved in the purchase,

“te would te a vielation of the Cuban Assets Control

Rerulations.

b&b. Informed Department of Treasury, Forelga Assets — |.

:*Gentzol Office, of the activities of Somondeip Enterprises,

&@ Vieni firm engased in sending venittances to persons

in Cuba in violation of the Cuban Assets Control
Regulations. :

e, instructed Consulate, Helize to inform

Me. Richard Joyce, ao American national, that bis -

comercial transactions with Cuba were in violation —~

SECREE
Shee.

Log!



HW 50955

Docld:32276192 “Page 24 gE

’ U.8. Ade Toree counter~is

Department of Defense

a. Thirteen Latin Awerican officers graduated from
the countereinsurgency Operations Course of the U.S.
Avay School for Lacin Amgrica in tle Ponama Canal Zone
on 20 Septesber. Baring. che south, & total of 91 Latin
American officers enrolled im courses stressing counter
imeurgeney at the Amuy Canal Zone school, ,
i)

. bB. Elght U.S, Arey counter-inourgency mobile

training teans were providing trainiag to the Armed

Forces of five Latin dmerican countries during the period.

argency traieing teans vere

in two counteies.

ec, In the Oanal Zone, 15 students from five countries :

were under instructica im the operation of const guard
utiiiey pateol exaft used for coastal surveillance,
Siz stu dents ‘dvom tuo countries were undergoing similar

in the UndtedoGrates

ad, AUS. Ravy co cownter«insuxgency training team

g the security

ee



NW 50955

ee Conta Rica and Homluras were provided one
ceesne 158 alverafe each for medical civic action and’ =
internal security purposes. :
€,' On May 25, 1963, three Mal3B RAMAN helicopters
were provided to the govermuent af Colombia on a SO-day

los, The Colombian Goverment reduested an extension

of the loan and a @0-day extension has been approved. .

*

Senter:

Be

‘trial beeis, = former member of the 13 Noverber guersilla

group and debriefings are ia prosees. Negotiations ;

gontinue with the Government of Guatemala for the ;

" farmation of a new internal security service.

b. Lina Station bas agreed te furaich

with an outboard motor:

DocId: 32276192. Page 25

te inevesee their patrol capability on rivers crossing -

‘the Bolivian fxentier. Quy dnigrmation ie thes. che

givers crossing this frontier have provided the primary

evecues for recent attempts to gain clandestine entry

"of personnel and weapons into Peru.

pe



Esnheoce of

wineeving inetallation work continued on radio
etations for Menagea, Nicaragua and Yeguelgelpa, i
Honduras. Ne further progress hes been made in reaching
agreements with Colombia and Eouador for rights to
establish radie stations in those countries, Ingtallacion

of the new trans-lethaten eomoarctal ‘cable in Panama |

is neaving cawpletion.

CIA Stations continued thely exchange of intelligence “..-

information with local inteliigeuce aseucies, The

a. The CIA Station in Busnes Adres furnished the

| with

wmation on the travel of Argentines to Cuba, aad ree.

quested thet provide name traces and debrief these

—_

travellers om their return: whenever feasible.
provided the traces, but did net conduct any debriefings.

The Station hag net felt it feasible to try to remedy

miesion Im view of the personnel changes expected
‘i . @ i
omighin after the new goverment i¢ installed on

HW 50955 Doold: 39276492. ,Rage 26° SECRET : Saar : bd.


b, Ag a result of information pagsed by the Bogera. ;

Sration

eomcerming Colombian travellers to Cuba, a number

o€ passport violations have beon discovered in which
travellers to Cuba are using passperta issued te other
persons. : There is a@ veluctance, however, on the part
gf the Coloubian Government te prosecute this type

of violation.

&

2. At the urging of the GLA Seation In Lina,

instructed ene of

its genetrations of leftist groups ts campaign for a trig

“eo Cuba da oxdex to receive guerrilla warfare treiving.

re]

Nie asset has been offered, and has accepted, an opportunity
‘vo aake the exip by the Leftisn Revelutionary Movemeht —

a

28), srimary vehicle of Cuben subversive activities’

has,
da vesponge to the efforts of the ‘Station ia Lima, sent
ene of its agents te Chile where he wlll sign aboard a

: Chilean fyeighter etlidng ec Habana. The aseet hae been

eifie datelligence recuigements to fulfill.

. The

t


has requested from the CIA representative in’

Lima any informetion that he might supply on eubversive

elements posing & threat to » Government of Peru.
Yala wequest has epened an additional chanel to the
highest level of the Goverment with a concomitant

prospector effective action when needed.

a, Through regular iiaisou channels,

kas been provided

by CIA with the names of S11 Yenesuelens inom to have

teavelled te Guba from February through Auguste 1963.

éhe names ere acw belng integrated inte tee regular

wareh Let kepe at imtermationsl airperte in Verecucla.

shied so :

ng indicated ite eppreciation of the daca

om the basis of

{tt

belng supplied and desives that the arrangement be

continued.

Dinlomtic, Comercial and Cultural

Ho special actions to report. © |
° vi os WER.
HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 28



:

‘
fo
Ww

VIEL. Other Special Actions _

‘Undeod Shares Infor

tion Agemey

a. The dgsney's press service transmitted seven

articles relating to Suben subversion on its wireless

file service te USIS offices throughout Latin fmordea ;

“for placement in the lgeal newepapere.. Developuenta ;
reported ta these articles included demands by the Bolivian
Sesate for the ouster of the Ceban Char? é'Affaires,
terrorism and goverment eountedection in Venezuela,
the seizure in Ecuedor of an arms and explosives cache
reportedly received froma Cuba, several articles on the

. Enternations] Union of Architects Cenaresa dn Rabana
(emphasizing the intent ef the Castro regime to use the ©
Congress as a forum for ite propaganda claims), and
Asgistant Searetery Martin's Los angeles speach in whien

he pointed out the regime’s affiniey for

ao

hninese communist
deetrine and ite continued eupheais on violent revolution
aod cabversion,. In all, the press service rranentered

é&

27 articles and comentaries during Septeubes en che

subject of Guba, the other ayricles dealing for the most

part with economic and political conditlons ingide the
couitey a3 evidenced by the regime's own aduisslons and

the xeports of ref

NW 50955 DocId:32276192- Page 29



HW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 30 Sei

B. ‘The Voice of Avericn Spanish broadeests to Larin

America

3 September carzied a total of 26 news

analyses, comsentaties, press cound-eps, and interviews

related to the subject of Caban subversion.

Sem

sae

the develooyents treated included the following:

4 comieetary on aqme

ia

8

wise ombas

of

eies as channels for

speech; & nave analysis on Cuban subversion a
?

aoa the U.S. students who

part series on university autonony. iu Latin America;

& feaceve on the letter ef a Coleublen student whe

wert to Cuba an a scholarship and wae digilluctaned by

the cmmuniet indectrination; ¢ eo

a awd interviews rl

QE gpaeial note,

ot guetrilia training in Guba. Kany of

several tloss in the broadcasts. The

cs

Be

with Cuba" hour carried four or five gommentaries shes

nelly en economic and political

£ geacted aneriiy no Voice of

oe

the

e norualizerion af U.S.«Sovier relations: a three.

wary on Che Guevara's

st®Yategy; and 2 eomeentary

endexvous

ote com


the canennise bloe and had pesttonead ite plans te

c, On September 27, the Agency issued @ circular
instruction to alilits Lathe é¢mevican posts urging
greater attention te opportunities for publicising Cubans

the various types of

a

atinutated subversion, sugges tla,
information activities to support this effort, and requesting
monthly wegorts of field actions taken to Implement the

instrection. This was done as 4 gollow-vp to the original

B

instruction an Guba ¢ subve ersiow which was issued April 3 3,

1963..,

4,

Be GEA da 2 dafeetion and

esploitation of ¢ oban athelete Reberte Poras Cndarse

SF

in Porto Alenze on 4 Sertember 1963. Perez was a wenber

of the Cuban basket-bail “paon which participaced dn the’

Norid University Gawne (FISU) held in Porto Alegre

b. Assletance was given to the Government of

in commection with thy

$e that were cenfiseated im late May 1963.

Only

HW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 31



HW 50955

8

_@ epecial commisalen to study the protien of Co

Only one of these Interzogated adaitted te aay inve Lveasnt

with the captured dogs te, the Comamist Party,

gservilias, ov angthing else

atid be construcd

as in inating. The one vio did admit bnowledge
denied that ke wag iavelved in any wey. The Government

pala wants to intersegate thie person “ag ain at

im Mentevidee arranged for aa

Jabevplew between an Uosmuayea mhldeary intell

officer and a recent defector Peon the Montevideo

=:

mbes Ege any devin sh extensive information regarding

ivuban subversive astivic cies wes revealed, The Gimguayan

‘ 9€fices prepared a veperte containing this data and

£ to the Netional Coumell of Government which

hos been slow te Indicate concamm over commmist sub-

4g & vesult of this report,

Tat ROG has directed the Minister of intesior to appoint

ist

@ wecommendttiens ae to what course

subversion aed te me

28 4

of action showld be ta

fa

mm by the Ureguayan Goverment.

Should the Goveernment wish to proce for pegsage oF +

stronger

Docld:32276192 Page 32


[NW 50955

i
cha Starion has taken

eteps to pr

by planning

smuliencous local prese

Docld: 32276192 Page 33

fe

the salient

the defector wiltbe


USA. ASG, CONTROL vo an HELE ly )

OSWHGRADED AT 42 yEAR TATE:
_ KOT aurowarioaity DECLASSIF

~ SECRET

29 October 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR: THE GENERAL COUNSEL

SUBJECT: iInterdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to
Counter Subversion (0)

1. €U) The following information is submitted in response to Memo~
randum No. 64, General Counsel, dated 19 September 1963.

2. (8S) Reference Topic 5 (Strengthening of Counterinsurgency
Capabilities):

@. Canal Zone -

@) Fifteen students from six Latin American countries are
attendees in the ten weeks Counterinsurgency Operations Course of the U. S.
Army. School of the Americas which begen 30 September 1963.

(2) There are 24 students from eight Latin American countries
attending the 16 weeks Military Intelligence Course which began 23 August
1963. ‘

b. CONUS ~

(1) Three students from three Latin American countries are
attending the Special Warfare Course at Fort Bragg, N. C.

(2) One Peruvian student is attending the Civil Affairs
Course at Fort Gordon, Georgia.

c. In the month of October 1963, eight Counterinsurgency Mobile
Training Teams (MIT) (14 O££-48 EM) were deployed in six countries to
conduct counterinsurgency training.

d. AW. 8. Army officer is attending the Command and General
Staff School of the Uruguayan Army and upon completion of this course in
December 1963, will be assigned to the OUSARMA, Uruguay. He will perform
intelligence advisory functions as an additional duty.

e. An additional officer has been assigned as assistant USARMA

in Guatemala, increasing the capability for intelligence assistance in
that country.

&
¥/
woo OR S26040 SECRET 2314854

Pe

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 34

t

o

vand €S€ vso

Vv

£9°67°0T

COPOEWT MS



cell SECRET.

OPS SW OP

SUBJECT; Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affaire:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to.
Counter Subversion (U)

‘3. (8) Reference Topic 6 (Bxchange of Intelligence on Cuban Sub-
version): :

i a. The number of intelligence exchange agreements between the
U.S. Army and local military services in Latin America has been increased
to 13.

b. The additional officer assigned as Assistant USARMA, Guatemala,
raises the collection potential in that nation and may develop information
which can be exchanged with Latin American countries.

J. D. ALGER

Major General, GS

Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff
for Military Operations

for Special Operations

G. S. BLANCHARD
Colonel, GS :
Director of Special Warfare
ODCSOPS

2

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 35



SECRE
Lt Col Haig/78029/290ct63/md

October 29, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHN CRIMMING
Coordiuater of Cuban Affairs
Bepartment of State

SUBJECT: interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affaire: Revision of the Paper Entitled "Training of
Latin Americans in the United States"

At a meeting of the Subcommittes on Subversion on October 10,
1963, the Department of Defense (DOD) Representative was requested
te review and up-date the DOD portions of pages 4, 5 and 6 of subject
Report. Enclosed hercwith in a ling in line out revision of the report,
A revicion bas also been made to page 7, which is designed to make
the DOB portions of the report current.

Signed “3
howe a
L% Colonel, USA
oseph A. Califano, Jr.
i Genezal Counsel
Attachment
As Stated

.

ob}
Mr. Califano accserMiuir
A” Lt Col Haig
ASG. ray

fbr)
eee CS PLE

MA age

i
GN Re
Bee

IPOUATTO REGR
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATTS ECR aCe ay
Di NOT MAR
GEGRET, PoP DER Se00-20 ae s oe "
HIE Gee aryl

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 36

WANO-ESE VSO

€9/62/0T

€9/o€/T Ma



BOD Revision to Paper Entitled
“Training of Latin Americans in the United States”

3. Military Acsistance Programs

At the presenttime end of FY 63, 2,277 1791 Latin
American military students ave were receiving, or are-pregpamsmed-te-
paselte have received training in the United States under the Military
Assistance Program. Gouraes vary in length from two-week orientation
tours to 83-week fying training courses. However, the majority of
inetruction is for periods of less than siz months, and ie distributed
in fields as follows:

Flying Instruction (8-83 weeks) a23 i54
Command, Staff and Operational 348 638

{direction and control of
armed forces, 4-23 weeks)

Coramunications/Ziectronice &6 36
(6-29 waeka)
Equipment Maintenance and 36 232
Repaiz (5-28 weeks)
Logistics (2-14 weeks) 46 23
Administration (4-40 weeks) & Zz
Professional Specialized 3a6 393.
(Engineering, Medical, Legal
etc., 4-20 weeks)
Orientation (2-3 weeks) 596 498

OSA. ASS. CoMTReL

DIL E

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 37



7. Bifficulties Encountered in Filling Available Military
Quotas in the United States :

The failure of Latin American. countries te take full advantage
of military quotas offered has been a persistent problem. In 1962, for
example, 15 por cent of the quotas offered were unfilled. Thia unfavor~
able situation derives from many causes. Guving-the current diseab
yeau-lé pez-cent Of -uniiMed. Army quotac-have -heen duc-to inability to-
iG0t- courses pre—nequisiten;-23 pen cont -bocause ofdack-ot eufileiont.
fundej-and-33 pet-cent because-of politieal epheavales The armed forces
of the average Latin Amevican country are small, and the availability of
qualified candidates who can be spared for extended periods of obligated
service and the lack of a profeasional non-commissioned officer corps
also tends to digcourage the trataing of enlisted men in United States
schoola, since large suras from limited budgets to train enlisted men
who will remain in service only @ brief time, Another significant
deterrent is the por diem rates required by law to be paid by some
countries to service personnel sent outside theiz homeland, In
Argentina, Brasil, Golombia and Usuguay the legal rates for person-
nel serving abroad are too high to be supportable by defensa budgete;
while ia other countries, such as Bolivia and Paraguay, the standard
rates are too late to provide a reasonable living for atudente.

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 38



CONEDENTIAL

Geteser 19, 1963

MEMORANDUM NO. 76 TOR GENERAL MARLE G, WHEELER (0s)
GAPTAIN BE, R, SUMWALT, JR., USI (OND)
MAJOR GENERAL J. BD. ALGER, USA
BEAR ADMIRAL W. PLA, WENDT, BSW
OR GENERAL J.W. CARPENTER, Ml, USAF
SRICADION CENZRAL WILLIAM K. JONES, USME

SUBJECT: lateedepartmental Coordinating Gommiites of Cuban Affaire:
Report of Meating of Subcommittees on Subversion.

QQ)
ro
Cizevlated hetowith for iafommation io a report of the Getebor it, aN
1963 meoting of subject subsonuaitiog, w&
Ow
Signed e
« Joseph A, Califano, Ino Ql
Soveph A. Gelifano, Jr. Sa
Gencrat Gounsel a
éstachment Sse Ne
As Stated :
é X
S|
ce: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)-2>.v SS
WwW
Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig_| glow), we »
ASCE N
,
AHO S EL YA 1 Gy
on NN
MeL St 9 3 by :

CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 39


C. cope <A
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY :

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY”
WASHINGTON 25, D.C. _

October 14, 1963

' MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting of Subcommittee. on Subversion,
: October 10, 1963 *

Outlined below is a summary of deliberations of subject sub-
committee during the meeting of October 10 at 1430 hours in Room fee
6273, New State, Agenda is at Tab A.

Agenda Item 1

The Final Subcommittee Report for the months of July and
August was circulated, The report has been circulated to points of
=eontact by separate correspondence.

Agenda Item 2

The Subcommittee discussed the SCCS letter which referred to
the recent trip of US students to Cuba. (Attached to enclosure 1) It was
".: apparent to all that criticism of the US could be implied from this letter,
The Chairman stated he would provide the SCCS with the substance of
5 State’s telegram 647, which outlines actions undertaken by the US
, Government against the students,

v» Agenda Item 3

a. CIA, in coordination with

: will prepare guidance data for distribution to Latin
merica which could be utilized b [for the pro-

‘tection of The DOD representative 5
, was requested to ascertain whether ARPA had available some commer- ”

>. ° cial protection devices which might be applicable for use in Latin
Amseelcal tea The CIA representative stated he

believed ARPA had developed some devices for this purpose.

E

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 40



b.. State will prepare a circular telegram to all Latin American
- Ambassadors requesting that an immediate review of Country Team
Emergency and Evacuation Plans be conducted to insure that plans were
adequate to meet a stepped-up campaign of Castro-inspired sabotage.

Agenda Item 4 : 7

In lieu of a written report on the Honduran guerrilla problem, :
the DOD representative proposéd a firsthand report to the Subcommittee,
Colonel Walter Hutchins, who has recently returned from assignment as
US Military Attache to Honduras, presented a review of the subversion
situation in that country and then answered questions from the Subcom-
mittee. The general thrust of Colonel Hutchins! remarks confirmed that
there has been considerable Castro subversive activity in Honduras. The
most serious inroads are achieved through communist radio and press
and communist educators. Colonel Hutchins commented that recent
guerrilla activity along the Nicaraguan border was probably limited to
» groups totaling between 100 and 200 men, He emphasized that Cuban-

trained Honduran guerrillas are successfully transiting by air through
Grand Cayman Island and British Honduras with some transiting Havana
to Jamaica via Belgrade. In response to a query from a State representa-
» tive, Colonel Hutchins pointed out that he believed that both Honduran
military and commercial interests were genuinely concerned with Castro,
subversion and that some of their leaders were perfectly capable. of
_< discerning the true nature of the communist threat to Honduras.

"Agenda Item 5

The Chairman stated that the paper for training Latin Americans
in the United States (included in the 'Krulak Report''*) was too broad in
scope for implementation by the Subcommittee and proposed that it be
. Tewritten under narrower parameters, In this regard, the Defense
representativ
on training co:

Miscellaneous

The Chairman stated that preparatory actions on the Isthmian
meeting at San Salvador tentatively scheduled for the second half of
November would be held in abeyance pending further developments in
the Honduran situation.

aie *Report prepared by the Subcommittee ox(Castte-Communia Subversion
CONFIDENTIAL containing a series of action Programs designed to impede.the Castro-
: Communist subversive. effort i i

NW 90955 Docld:32276192 Page 41


= ca ae SE RT

oN:
a
CONF LDENTIAL

[tbe ey : : October 9, 1963

“MEMORANDUM FOR: Subcormittee on Cuban Saver esons

SUBJECT: "Meeting of October 10.

Fu

: You are invited to a meeting of the Subcommittee on |»
Cuban Subversion of the Interdepartmental Coordinating
Committee of Cuban Affairs to be held on Thursday,

October 10, at 2:30 P.M. in Room 6263, State Department
(ARA Conference Room).

AGENDA

“1. | Consideration of draft of monthly report for September.

’ Diseussion of letter (copy attached) from SCCS -of
Pan American Union.

Status of papers on contingency planning.

: Report by DOD on Honduran guerrilla problem.

“ Consideration of the paper on training of Latin fom
Amer ieans in the United States. ee

CONFIDENTIAL POR ba Eye oS ee. c

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 42


CLAL stigeitKoie COMMITTEE OH SEEURITYC)
HISIQN ESPECIAL DE CONSULTA SOSRE SEGURIDAD
SSAQ CONSULTIVA ESPECIAL DE SEGURAHDA
SSHGH SPECHALE BE CONSULTATION SUR LA SECURITE

PAN AMERIGAM ¢
Washington 6,,0.C., U.S.A.
Cable addre esa:' PAU WASH OC

October lst., 1963

POTS: Ae you know, the Special Consultative Committee on Security is
“ ' presently holding the first of its regular meetings, in accordance ‘with
“the statutes approved by the Council of the Organization on April 23 of |
thig.year. -. . i ;

: “For the better fulfillment of ite work, and in accordance with Article,

“13 of theee statutes, the Committes intends to réquest of the governments

of the mombor states of the Organization any information that. they may have |
“ Fegarding specific activities of international communism in thie hemisphere,

“Among. th ne important activities of this kind are ‘the trips that many
individuals make to Cuba for well-know ulterior purposes, In thie connec~
thon, I should greatly appreciate it if you would furnish the Committee with

whatever information your government may deem it advisable to present,
rogarding the trip that a large group of U.S, citizens recently made to Cuba

at the invitation of thet country’s goverzment, about which the Committee —~
hae learned through newspapar reports that have recently appeared in this :
country and in Latin America, This information would be treated with the sal

onfidence that your government deemed appropiate, a

hank you in advance for your valuable assistance in thie matter, | “aE
ceept; Sir, the agsurance of my highest congideration,

“-Jullo Cesar Doig Sanchez
Chairman
Special Consultative Committee
on Security

Mr. Ward P, Allen, ;

Alternate Representative of the United States
Council of the Organization of American States

"~ Waghington, D.C... eet :

NW $0955 DocId:32276192 Page 43


SECRET

44 OCT 1963

vano-€s€ ¥sSO

MEMORANDUM NO, 71 FOR CAPTAIN 2. B. AUMWALT, IK., USN (OaDS |
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALOGUR, USA |
BEAR ADMIRAL W. WENDT, USN

MAION GENERAL 3. W. CARPENTER, il, USAF S|
BRIGADIER GENERAL Y, K. JONES, vem e|
~
ON,
SUBJECT: interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs: areal
Actions Taken Daring July-August 1963 in Curbing Cuban
Sabversion im Latia America :
2
Attached is the Gual report of the Subcommittee on Subversion an —
Actions Taken Buying July-August 1963 in Curbing Cabaa Subversioa in Lg
Latin Ameriea, &
ignea
oe osepl A. Califano,Jre
Joseph A. Califaze, Jr.
General Counsel
Attachment
Ag Stated

Tn. seeds iP (osd)
ce: DIA (Col Nigra)

Mr. Califano
Mt Col Haig

7 i

ae \
pcm) |
f’ :

ASA, ASG Contro! Noee 32S H FILE oS
SERETposne

FROM CLASS

HW 50955 Docld:32276192 Page 44


GROUP 1.

Brotinioa from automatig
Sowngrading and

Pelassizteation



® SECRET’

. Control of Travel _to_and_ from Cuba

Central Intelligence Agenc

: a. Developed highly useful information on frequency
f Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationali-
ties of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control
followed by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this informa-
tion to station chiefs in the Latin American countries of the
on-Brazilians travelling on those flights. : ra

b. -Maintained close watch over travel to and from ©:
tuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin © =
Americans during July and August.

c. As a result of information furnished to him by.
he ‘CIA Station in Buenos Aires and with the Station's
indicated that he would
make. every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attend:
ng the International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy,
he Bolivian Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an
xder prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba or. ::
other bloc countries to Bolivian nationals. BEE

e. Partly as a result of the efforts of the CIA
station in Santiago, the Government of Chile prohibited the-
entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban-sponsored Second.
“Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to
ake place in Santiago in August. This was one of the
actors which led to postponement of the Congress.

£. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station
“and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa
Rica presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican
ssembly which will require all persons intending to travel
to Communist countries to have their travel approved by a
“newly created Costa Rican security agency. Tt .

g- CIA Station in Mexico City developed information >
concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Cruz


on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to. obtaii
‘more information and to encourage stricter controls by th
Mexican authorities.

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade ©
Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilicies by
flights on Habana-Moscow route. These efforts achieved a
temporary withholding of permission for future regular flights;
at least until such time as the Soviets develop their own:
‘refueling facilities at. Conakry. *

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian
authorities to express. our deep concern at the growing
-frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request
their cooperation in curbing them. Also instructed our
Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with CIA
station chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those

ountries travelling on these flights to local authorities’
nd urging them: (1) to institute tighter controls on thei:
wn citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their
oncern to the Brazilian Government over Cuban use of Brazil.
iS a way station for transporting subversives.

x ce. As a result of representations made to the
British Government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands
carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed
an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the
use of British Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit
points for passengers. The British intend to require transi
visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to :
eject appliéations: for such visas except in certain special
cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from
leaving their aircraft, or would be returned to their point
of. origin.

dae Instructed Embassy Mexico City on ae 29 tc
‘ inform the: Mexican airline CMA that the United States is .
opposed toa pro) osal that CMA operate charter flights. t



arry refugees from Habana to Central America. CMA, as a
esult, stated that they had-no intention of Proceeding «
‘urther with this project.

e. Instructed our missions in Curacao and the Hague
o investigate a report that KLM was planning to renew
cheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US
‘opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba. KUM. assured
ur Embassy that there is no plan to initiate. service,.
cheduled or non-scheduled, to Habana.

£. Instructed Embassy Ottawa to express our strong
bjections to a proposal; that a Cubana charter flight pick
ip a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly them‘
o Cuba. The flight. was not authorized.

g- Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigate
ubana approaches to secure flight fac ties. Mission
eported on August 1 that the Governor hed no knowledge of |
ny talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications. and °
the Cuban Government regarding landing rights for Cubana
lanes. The Governor indicated his intention to inquire
further and to keep us advised. London reported chat neithe:
the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the
ssue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica
nd the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban Government
in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 58
American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also °
informed Pan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban
equest for a PAA charter flight to fly the students: from
Habana to New York.

ge i ‘Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and .
jarbados on ‘several ‘occasions to approach these governments:
to.express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban
interest in? ‘the use: “of their aviation facilities.’ os

‘Embassy , Port of spain. discussed with the Foreign Secretar:
of. Trinidad:various legal moves available ; that would enable



GOTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory,
citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada
and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that
the list of suggestions be made available to the. aviation
officials concerned.

j. During a previous reporting period Embassy
Santiago urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to
Cuban delegated to a preparatory meeting for the II Latin
American Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean
capital. Inability of Cuban delegates to obiain Chilean
visas for this meeting is one of the contributing factors to
the Cuban sponsors announcing during August that the meeting
had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in

‘countries which participate in the International Union of

rchitects asking them to urge the coop:xration of governmenta’

uthorities in preventing or discouraging the attendance of
their nationals to the VII UIA Congress :n Habena, September

9 = October 4, 1963. Followed this up with instructions to
individual posts to try where feasible to dissuade

rchitects from free world countries from serving on ‘the jury

‘or the selection of a Bay of Pigs monument.

1. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to.

hat would have required the establishment of scheduled
weekly charter flights by Canadian planes.

a Control _of Movement of Cuban Propaganda
Central Intelligence Agency

Responding to the urging of the CIA Station, polic
£ the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of
opaganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the. specia

“Cubana flights. For example, some 50°pounds of printed
Propaganda was’ taken — the various passengers. who - ‘arrive
mi the 16, sueeet Cuban. a flight.



Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

"Department of Defense

: a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding :
Cuba during the months of July and August at the same rate
and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from
within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other
Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft
in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such
requests were received from any other government during the
period covered by this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep
track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter
MITCHURINSK, which was suspected of carrying subversives an
arms from Cuba to British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK.
was under U.S. surveillance. from its departure from Habana
until United Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping thi
ship under surveillance upon its approach to Georg town, ”;
British Guiana. Subsequently, British police search of
MITCHURINSK in British Guiana waters revealed nothing of a
suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency

At the repeated urging of the CIA Station in Lima,
the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti
terrorists Law providing a penalty of no less than five °
years imprisonment for persons who participate in guerrilla
activities or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or _

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service ie working

_ a lead furnished by the CIA Station in Lima concerni

: ‘Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to :
investigate Eeports . that commercial cargoes (which. could’;



sconceal illicit arms traffic out: -of Cubs) had “developed |
“between British Guiana and Cuba... Investigations to.date

ave been negative. ~ y

* Control of Transfer. of Funds” °°

Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office ©
f£ the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls
with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9; 1963

. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities °
Department of Defense

a. Continued the installation of military communica:
ions facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for
he multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua

‘ Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delaved to 15
ctober 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively bccause o
ew engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations.
re.continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation
f U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new
ommercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone

within the coming month is expected to improve military
ommunications within the United States and the Commande
n-Chief, U.S. Southern Command. ~

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S.
‘orces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organiza-
ions and agencies. Reports of surveillance have been
isseminated to all who have a requirement to know. ~

ec. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 day per week
luty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean
duntries in conjunction with implementation of the militar:
lerting system. Continued efforts to staff the U.S.
Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared
trained personnel (this center is the military focal point
for relaying information concerning the movement.of
ubversives).... Filled, partially, the authorized billets: i



the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took
under consideration the problem of. an increase in the bille
structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S.
Southern Command together with his intelligence officer
visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no
significant problems existed which would interfere with
effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander,
U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish
a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a
contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System-is progress
ing satisfactorily. Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard
personnel to SCIATT in-the Canal Zone has been ‘approved :and
the U.S. Coast Guard has taken appropriate implementing
actions. .

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT con:
ducted: an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa
Rica. - Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civi-
of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot
Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBs) or were to be assigned a8.
replacement crew members. —.---

during the period 17. to 31 August by a mobile training team
(MIT) made up of SCIATT personnel.

Continued efforts ‘to improve the internal securit
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligenc
Advisors. Presently there are such advisors assigned to 14
Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence’ and counter-
subversion. :

h. ‘During the reporting period MITe conducted train
ing in ‘counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia,
Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador.’ -* :

: ie “Civic ‘Action MITs were sent to “Guatemala, Bolivia,
Colombia El Salvador Jamaica and. Ecuador...



Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion”

’ Central Intelligence Agency

. CIA Stations throughout Latin America continued in

a great majority of countries to furnish to the local interna
security organizations with whom they are in liaison informa-
tion concerning travelers to and from Cuba, as well as such
information as came to CIA's attention concerning the movemen
of funds, arms and propaganda material. In many instances
the furnishing of information to the internal security
service by the CIA Station was paralleled by the furnishing o
similar information to the Foreign Office by the Ambassador
or his representative. The response to this information has

aried greatly. The Central American countries, in general,

egan to pay greater attention to the information and act on’:

t. At the other extreme; the Brazilian Government during

he reporting period showed little inclination to follow up

m the information. . : pone ad. Saag

Department of State

b. Urged the Government of Guatemala ‘to submit
vidence of communist activity to the OAS. ‘

. Surveillance of Cuban Diplomatic, Commercial and Cultural:

Missions

Department of State

‘Instructed Embassy La Paz to follow up closely on
charges of involvement by the. Cuban mission in internal .
policies of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion; to
point out to Bolivian officials ‘the opportunity for a. possible
break.in relations with’ Cuba. Embassy La. Paz was not able:t



ress for a break when the evidence of Cuban ‘intervention
id not prove to be as conclusive as’ originally’ reported

Other Special Actions »:

Department _of State

‘a. Obtained action by the COAS on July 3 on the ~
-Lavalle Committee Report transmitting the document to the
“governments and urging them to implement the specific and-

eneral recommendations contained therein as. soon as
ossible. :

. b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan
overnment of the matters which we wanted to have considered
luring the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and
“Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August
6-28 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the
Managua Security Conference countries later this years, ';

. c. : Explained in detail the nature of the: “Cuban :
hreat and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during |
onversation in London and in Washington with Mr. Adam Watson,
ewly appointed British Ambassador to Cuba.

H United States Information Agency

: a. The Agency's press service ‘during the reporting:
eriod transmitted 12 articles, .commentaries, and back-
rounders on its wireless file service to USIA posts through:
ut Latin America for placement in the local newspapers and
the Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America
arried a total of 28 commentaries and features on the subjec
£ Cuban-based subversion. These. stories were designed to
lert people in Latin America, ‘to the dangers of this =~. ~
ubversion. ae

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to
. give special attention to. developments related to Cuba-based
ubversion, USIA posts. in Latin America were prompt in
eporting incidents’ and .in providing editorial comments from



: the Latin American.press, all of which was used. in the
Agency's radio and press output.

The main developments treated in the Agency's radio
and press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging
“yevolutions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist
weapons factories in Guayaquil, the Ecuadorean Vice
President's accusation’ of Cuban responsibility for terrorism,
*the Cuben use of Grand Cayman as a way station for subversive
elements from Cuba, the expulsion from the. University of a
Bolivian youth leader for receiving funds from Cuba,
Castro-trained guerrillas in Honduras, and Bolivian protests
against meddling by the Cuban Embassy in the miner's strike.
A Voice of American roving reporter in Latin America
provided several reports on the acted acon picture in coun~.
tries he visited.

c. In support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based’
subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on
three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report
of his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted
himself in some of his extravagant claims of Soviet progress)
the ‘losses suffered by Cuban‘labor under Castro, and.the
fate of political prisoners in’ Cuba. When completed,, these
pamphlets will be reproduced and: distribut in. quantit:
throughout the. area



Chartered Cubana airlines flights between Cuba and.
Brazil have become a major means of transporting non-Cuban
Latin Americans to and from Cuba. The five such flights
since late July have carried nearly 400 non-Gubans.'

The first of the recent series -- on 25 July -- -
brought 7: Latin American passengers to Havana for the
26. July celebrations. The other four flights -- on 15,
22, 28 and 29 August -- transported over 200 Latin
Americans to Brazil from Havana. Some of the aixcraft
involved returned to Cuba with smaller numbers of passen-
‘gers. Many of the 200 Latin American passengers nad
been delegates to the 26 July ceremonies, but others had

pparently been in Cuba for longer periods and some had

robably received training there. Of the passengers on
these four flights to Brazil, 75 were natives of Ew
Caribbean area countries. Their.circuitous travel through
Brazil was evidently designed to help conceal the fact
-that they had been in Cuba. - ; :

Costa Rica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengers ona —.

chartered Cubana plane which was turned back to Havana

at Grand Cayman on 11 July 1963. One. was Luz Marina
Hernandez Salazar, the only Costa Rican woman known to’.”

ave been sent to Cuba for training as a guerrilla :

arfare instructor. -She had been in Cuba since September,
1962. “The other Costa Rican passenger. was. Carlos Guillen;
“former head’ of the Costa Rican Society of Friends, of

he Cuban Revolut ior

1962 i



The CIA Station in Quito reports that the military
junta, which assumed power in Ecuador on 11 July, can
be expected to follow the guidance of the Embassy and
.the Station in controlling travel to and from Cuba and
the Soviet bloc. .The-activities of Cuban subversives

n Ecuador, at least for the present, have been greatl:
inhibited by the mass arrests of Communists and pro- :
Cubans and by the i icsaeleaas of the Communist Bpaed by.
the e junta. -

Honduras

It is reported that the Bonduran Communist Party
has issued.orders to its members not to attempt to .
ravel to Cuba at the-present time. This action is
apparently the result of the increasing vigilance of :
thé Honduran government and the greater implementation

f: stricter travel controls.

Movement_of Cuban Propaganda
Guatemala

According to an unconfirmed report received in July

a Bureau of Information of the Communist Party of
Guatemala is being. formed in collaboration with Prensa
Latina and is to be managed clandestinely. It expects ©

© receive news by shortwave radio from Cuba and print °
“bulletins for distribution by radio stations. This ma
indicate a pattern by which Prensa Latina will attempt

o distribute on @ more clandestine basis in® tue areas
n, Latin America.

Honduras

It was reliably reported ‘phat in mid- july 1963, al
“gmall coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communis
propaganda on the northern coast of Honduras, the boxes.
“having been transferred at sea .from.a Jar; er: vesse The
“xeport., has. not, been confirmed



: Movement_of Guerrillas and Arms

Argentina

: Extremist members of the Peronist Party, apparent ly.
under the leadership of such figures as Hector Villalo
and John William Cooke, were repoxted to be receiving. °
neouxagément and-promises of large sums of money from -
Cuba in support of their efforts to train and organize
-subversive groups in Argentina. Villalon has stated
hat his plan-calls for expanding and aécellerating
subversive activities in Argentina culminating in a
complete take over within two years. Thete is no indica
ion that Peron himself has agreed to this plan. It has
been reported that leaders of the Communist Party of
rgentina have been greatly annoyed by the tendency of
the Castro xegime to support the revolutionary Peronists..:
without having consulted the Communist Party of Argentina

: It is reported that the so-called Army of tational,
‘Liberation (ANL) of Argentina, which is a relatively
small Castroist organization directed from Cuba by
“John William Cooke, has in recent weeks been negotiating
for the purchase of arms and has been offered submachine
guns, bazookas and other weapons by two or three private
“suppliers. It was reported, however, that the ANL was
aving difficulty getting enough dollars from Cuba ‘to
make significant purchases: possible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Relations on 23
‘August protested formally to the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires
n La Paz against the Cuban Embassy support to the miner:
luring the recent crisis. Subsequently, however, Foreign
Minister Fellman informed the Cuban Chargé that he need.
not fear that the Government of Bolivia would break-~ =: ©
iplomatic relations with Cuba... There has, .in fact, been
0 hard..information linking the Cuban Embassy with the
resent mining crisis in spite of some: unconfimed.
£-Cuban support..



Brazil

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul Roa Kouri, is
reported to have attempted to encourage peasant league
leader Francisco Julio to revitalize the leagues in
northern Brazil. ' According to some reports efforts are
being made to unify the leadership and bring dissident
elements under the general direction of Juliao. Other
reports indicate that, although the Cuban Embassy is... °°
providing guidance and possibly financial support to the
movement, it had not yet resolved the internal dissension
in the leagues. :

Colombia

Fron Colenbia reports have been received of incre= =
asing Cuban assistance, primarily in the form of training
courses by instructors who have been trained in Cuba,
to the Worker-Student-Feasant Movement (MOEC). 4A small
guerrilla band encountexed by the Colombian axny in
July 1963 was broken up when five members of ihe band
were killed and two others captured. A small quantity.
of arms and a considerable amount of books and pamphlet.
on revolutionary warfare, photographs of Fidel Castro,
Camilo Cienfuegos and Mao Tse-tung, and bulletins ‘of «
the MOEC were found at the camp site. Recent reports
have indicated an increase in the terrorist efforts of
the MOEC and increased promises of assistance from’ Che
Guevara with regard to the training. of additional MOEC.

Costa Rica

There have been a number of unconfirmed reports
alleging small-scale training of revolutionaries on
Costa Rican territory for guerrilla activity in
Nicaragua. For example, in mid-July an increased numbe’



SECRET |
- 5 -

‘anti-Nicaragua revolutionary group). In early August,”
“Alberto Serrato, leader of the FLN in Costa Rica, ©:
(reportedly left with a group of Nicaraguans for the -
Costa Rican-Nicaraguan border.. Another report indicated
that Hector Bogantes Zamora, Costa Rican agitator was
supposed to have left San Jose in mid-August for the
Nicaraguan border to supervise’ the passage of Nicaraguan
guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua. Bogantes, -
.who recently returned from attending the May Day celebra-
tions in Cuba, is said to have been assigned this
responsibility by the Costa Rican Communist Party...

So far as we know, the con, which is normally ai
informed and highly sensitive to such activities. on its :
orders, has not made any complaints or otherwise. signified
oncern or awareness of these reported activities. —

Honduras

‘The Honduran armed forces began to move against'a
roup of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against ‘the
Nicaraguan Government and active in the vicinity of the
Nicaraguan-Honduran border. The Nicaraguan National Guard
‘has been conducting operations on its side of the border
against the insurgents since July. The dense jungle and
difficult terrain, however, will impede the efforts of,
oth forces to eliminate the guerrillas.

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and
onflicting. It is apparently composed of members of the
lational Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-dominated
nd Cuban-supported revolutionary organization active

primarily in Hondures and Nicaragua since the: fall-of
1962. The strength of the force is not known.

Nicaragua

A captured guerrilla of the FLN (National Liberation
Front - a Communist=dominated, Cuban-supported, anti-- Aannee
licaraguan group) confessed that! he was a member of a:
; 6 .who entered Nigaragua ‘rom, Honduras. on 22 July



He said that their mission was to establish a base camp
in the Isabella mountains,~Department of Jinotega, in
order to indoctrinate the peasants and to train them in
guerrilla tactics. .He admitted that he had.received six *
months’ guerrilla warfare training in:Cuba ‘and that; othe:
FLN leaders:had received ‘similar. training.” ‘He also said
that: the FLN training camp in’

“on the Patuca River. ©

4, / Transfer of Funds

British Guiana

_. In British Guiana, Guiana Import-Export Corporation ©
(Gimpex) received a one million doilar advance payment
deposited by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation fer goods to
be delivezed to Cuba.in the future. Gimpex has, in turn,
loaned this money to the Government of. British Guiana.
Cheddi Jagan's People's Progressive Party is the major
stockholder in Gimpex. Mohammed Kassim, Manager of Gimpex
has indicated that Gimpex will be able to secure «dditiona
loans from Cuba in amounts sufficient to tide the Jagan
government over any foreseeable crisis. It was also
reported that Gimpex plans to buy aircraft, spare parts
and other machinery in the Bnited States ‘for reshipme
O° Cuba.

General

Reports continue to be received from many places *
indicating that the suitcase full of currency is still one:
of the most common methods used by the. Cubans for trans~
mitting funds for use. in supporting subversive activities
throughout’ the hemisphere. Instances: “where such -funds:



WATIONALITY JULY:
ARGENTINA

Celebration

of July

Oj 26th

| a4 | “oO 26th of July Celebrations
ea eae epee
cite P09 Fa Teen ot
: COLOMBIA” | 29 | 4 26th of July Celebrations?
| costa RICA | 12. | 0. 28th of July Celebrations
“ 37-1 0 ‘26th of July Celebrations

LOM, REP, :
ares
"| Fly SALVADOR

26th’ of July Celebrations
26th of July Celebrations

ibe

Oo: Jojo. fe

.

js)
(x)
©

30-Football team. Sato. 26th of Jul;

“yMRXICO

NICARAGUA

| PANAMA‘
] PARAGUAY
> TppRu

| TRINIDAD *
| URUGUAY

26th of July Celebrations.

Wost Gitending wilt remain
to work.

"of July Celebrations.
of July Celebrations:



22-Returning from 26th July Celebrations:

Herder Institute in- Leipzig’ :
-Seeking. funds

8-Physical Ed. Seminar - 1
from 26, July Celebrations

COSTA RICA _
DOM. REP. .
ECUADOR
EL SALVADOR
GUATEMALA
HAITI
HONDURAS

SECRET

1-Study at University of Sofi

RINIDAD

URUGUAY:

VENEZUELA 3 0.

‘1S. fioa

26th July, Celebrati:

