# 198-10007-10021

## Page 1

198-10007-10021]

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10007-10021

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ICCCA

FROM: CHMN, SUBCMMT ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

TO: MEMBER OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE

TITLE :

REPORT FOR JULY-AUGUST ON ACTIONS TAKEN TO COMBAT CASTRO-COMMUNIST

SUBVERSION

DATE: 09/30/1963

PAGES: 23

SUBJECTS :

ENHANCEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE ON CUBAN

SUBVERSION

STRENGTHENING OF COUNTER-INSURGENCY

CAPABILITIES

CONTROL OF TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA

CONTROL OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS

SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL

AND CULTURAL MISSIONS

CONTROL OF CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT OF GUERILLAS

AND ARMS

CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF CUBAN PROPAGANDA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 26. Memo from Chairman, Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion to the

members of the Committee re: Report for July-August on Actions Taken to Combat Castro-Communist

Subversion.

JFK Reved

Dediato a EX 3526

→ Exempi

Moon as stepso, Kes.

vg.l

HW 50955 DocId: 32424014

Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

#6

Fill

SECRET

Septenber 30, 1963

TO:

TROM:

SUBJECT:

Membere of Subcommittee on Castro- Communist

Subversion.

Chaiman, Subcomnittee on Cuban Subversion

Report for July - August on Actions Taken to

Combat Castro-Communist Subversion

Attached I$ a draft of the Subcoumittee's report for

July and August on actions taken to counteract Castro-

communise subversion in the hemisphere.

The draft has been

prepared on the basis of the material which you fumished

with certain modification.

The CIA menber will note that I

have extracted

from his submission the items of action taken

and placed these in the body of the report.

The Intelligence

Inforation contained in the submission I have made into an

annex.

I think it is very useful to have the intelligence

dats form part of the report, and request that in the future

the CIA member prepare his submisiion in two parte.

May I have your comments on the draft by close of

business October 1, 1963.

Copies to: CIA • Mr. Wheeler (2)

DOD - Col. Maig (2)-

USIA - Mr. Wagley (1)

RAR - Mr. Hart

(1)

Justice • Mr. Ceogheghan (1)

6, #7

Za/ called

V-3-Chi Stafframe - Hay

ARA: WCBowdler: 18

Excluded from automatio

9/30/63

downgrading and

declassification

SECRAT

NH 50955 DocId: 32424014 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DRAIT

SECRET

L of _1 coples

GROUP. I

Excluded from automatiol

downgrading and

declassification

1 Control 2f Travel to and Eno Caba

Central Intell trence Agener

2. Developod highty useful informatton on frequeney

of Cuban "chartered" flighte to Breail, names and nationalities

of poseengers and crew, and loz messures of eontrol followed

by Branilion authorittes, Tranmitted this information to

station chiefs in the Latia American countries of the non-

Brazilians trovelling on these flighte.

• D. Maintatned close watch over travel to and fron

Cuba. Sco Annon A for table of Inow travel of Latin Anerleans

during July and Anguet.

c. As a result of information furnished by him by cho

CIA Station In Buenos Alres and with

indiested that he would nake

every effort to prevent Argentine delegates fron attending cho

International Union of Architeete Congress in lavane.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and she Embasay

che Bolivien Miniater of Interior losed in nid-July an order

prohibiting the granting of travel

permite to Cube on othes

bloc countries to Bolivian nationale:

SECREE

NH 50955

DocId: 32424014 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECUES

+2-

€.

Partly as a result of the efforte of the CIA

ocacion in Sanctago, the Coverment of Chile prohibited the

entry lato Chile of organizers of the Cuban sponaored Second

katin American Youth Congress, Which had been echeduled to take

place in Santiago in August, This wid one ef the factors which

led to postponement of thetongrese.

f. After conasderable prodding by the CIA Scation

and the Embessy the Mintetor of Puble Security of Costa tica

= presented legielative proposals to the Conta Ricon Assenbly

which will zequire all pezsons intending to travol to Cormnlet

counttes to have their travel approved by & newly created

Conte Mcan security agency,

E: CIA Staclos in Healeo Clty developed Information

conceming the clandestine arzival of passengers in Vera Crus

on Cuban merchant shipe. Isforce are bains nade to obtain more

Informacion and to encourage strteter controle by the Moxican

authoritles-

Departmene of State

Instructed Inbiany Connkry to try to persuade

Calnoon authorttten to deny use of atrport faeslicien by flights

on latena-loscoe route, These efforte achieved a temporary

withholding of peralsaion for future regular flights, at lease

......2

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424014 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECURE

untll such cine as the Soviets develop their om zefueling tactilties

at Connie.

Instzucted Unbassy Rio to approach Brazilien

authoricies to express cur deep concern at the growing frequency

of Cuban non-schoduled flighte to Srazil and request thate

cooperacion in curbing than. Aleo inaczucted our Enbasstes

In several latin Amontean countrtes to work with CIA statton

chiefs in furolshing the nues of nationle of those countries

travelling on these flights to local euthorities and uging

thrm: (2) Co Inoritute sighter contzole on thete own citizons

travelling to Caba, and (2) to extons their concena to the

BOVeR DE Brazil Groan ee oR Braell de a way station

for transporting subversives.

C, As a resule of representations made to the British

governont about Cuban flighte to the Cayuan Istando carrying

Latin Anarton subvarsives, the British developad an adminiatrative

schere which vill affectively pzondote the use of Beitiat

Cartbbean depondenetes by Cubeat de trinate points for pastengers.

The British Antcad to require taensic visas of passangers paceing

through their arens, and to reject applications foz such visas

encept in certalo spectal cases, Fersons not possessing vises

would be prevented fron leaving thats aireraft, or would be

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424014 Page 5

---

## Page 6

returned to their potat of origin.

4, Instructed imbassy Moxico Cliy on August 29

• €o

Intom che Mexican nizliao CMA that cho Unlted Scates io

opposed to a proposal that CHA

opiate cbarter flights to carry

refugee fron Bavans to Central Anarice. Ol, a8 a result,

stated thet they had no incention of procoding further with

thio project.

€ Instzucted J.S, Mastone in Curacoo and the He gue

to investigate e report that KIM was planning to renew st

scheduled Caracao-labana flighto and to reiterate US opposition

to zecaton of air service to Cuba. KIM assured our Dabassy

that thera to no plan to inittate servtee,

schoduled or nos.

acheduled, to Habana.

£, Instructed Embassy Occans to mpress our 6tr02g

objectiona to a proposal that e Cubana charter flight pick up

e second group of U.S, etudents in Monteeal to fly then to Caba.

The flight was not authorized.

Instructed Consulate Georgotom to lavestigate

Calang approaches to secure fl1ght focilities. Micsion reported

en August 1 chae the Governor had no Inowledge of any talks

between the D.6. Minlatry of Commiescions and the Cuben Cover-

mont regarding landing zighto for Cubana planes, The Covernor

NN 70953

DocId: 32424014 Page 6

---

## Page 7

(milenced bie intention to Inguize Furthen and to keep wi

advioed, london reported that zeither the Orben nor the Deitish

Outane Governante had mised the kecue of landing zighta wich.

I Unged the govermence of Hoxleo, Canads, Janatea

aad the Motherlanto to setie to costee the Caban governeat

ta its effocto to flad a shore route for raturmpfthe 38 Amertcen

students sho Illogally travelled to Cuba, Also inforned Pan

Americon Atrays that we voro opposad to a Cuban sequent for

• PAs charter flight to fly the studente fron Habans to How Vort,

*. Instructed our niacione at Port of Spain and

Barbados on puveral occastone to appreach these sovernments to

espress the concern of the U.S, at Indications of Cuban Interest

Im the une of their culation focilittes.

Tabasoy Fort of Spain Alacussed wich the Voreign Secretary

of Trintdad various legal moven available that would emble

GOrE to control momento of aircraft vichin shete territory,

citing emplos of such controle instituted by Mexteo, Canada

and Ireland. le indicated receptivenone to the proposal that

the 11ot of susgenttons be made avallable to the aviecion offtelalo

concerted,

I. During a provous reporting pertod Embassy Santiago

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424014 Page 7

---

## Page 8

megod the soverment of Chile to refuee visas to Cuban delegates

to a proparatory meeting plaming for the IL Latte Anarlean

Jouth Congress schoduled for August In the Chilenn capital.

Inability of Cuban dolegaces to obtain Chile visee for this

meeting le one of the contributing factors to the Caban sponsore

annuncing during August that the meeting had been postponed.

I Sent general instructions to our mosions in contrlea

which partioipate in the Intomational Unton of Architucts ecling

then to urge the cooperation of govermental authorittes fa

preventing or dlocouraging the attendance of thete cicisens to

tho VII VIA Congross 1a Esband, Septenber 29-Oetober 6,

1963.

Follord the up wich instrations to individual poste to ery

whore feasible to dissuade architecte from free world contites

from serving on the juxy fer the solection of a Day of Pigo

monument.

1. Urged Canadtan Covemmat to block a plen to

cormence food parcel shipmento to Culo, on a formeretal baste,

thas would have required the cotablialmont of scheduled weekly

charter f11ghte

by Canadian planes.

SEANSE

50955 DocId: 32124014 Page 8

---

## Page 9

+7=

2 590:39.

0 No

N220-

12360

Mener

Responding to the unging of the CLA Station police

of the Scace of Cuenabara selzed longe quinticles of propa

sande brought taco Brasil by pessengere en the special Cabene

¿Lighos. For example, sone 50 pondo of printed propogande

uns taken from the vazious passengere tno arrived en che 16

Auguat Cabane flight:

LesentReet

neferas

a. Continued purvelllance of the aron surrounding Cube

during the nonth of July at the one rose and with the same

euphasto as prior to 1 July 1963.

bi Continued to mintain U.5: Fozces, primarily fron

wichin the Atlantie Command, avollable to ascier other Caribbeas

govermente in the interception of suepteleus crafe in

texritorial untar, 68 might be requeeted. No auch requeste veze

zecalved from any other governant during the pertod covered by

thie report. However, U.S, Forces did keep track of the

Location of the Soviet nerchant Freighter ITCHURINSE, wolch

NH 50955

Do01d: 32424014

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECILEZ

vas suspected of corrying cubvorsives and oms fraa Cube to

British Calme in mid-isty, KITCHINST mas under U.5.

surmillance from les departure Ccon Have until Intred

Kingdon forcas assuned the tach of leeping this ship under

surveillance upon its appronch to Georgetown, Eritich Caland.

Subsequently, Britiah polfee surch of NIICHRTISE in British

Gulane waters revealed nothing of e naspicious nature.

entzal Intellinenes Arency

At che repoated urging of the CIA Scation In Mina

the Pezuvien Government lato in Auguet mubliched o new anti-

terzorists law providing a penalty of no less than five yoars

impriconeut for perscas who partieiate in guerille activities

or In the illegal mmufacture of veapone or explostvad.

The Fervian Nacial Intelligence Service 18 working

on A lead Furnished by the CIA Statton in Lins concerning &

200 ton vessel seportedly involved in ars traile.

Deposinans 24 Grate.

Inctructed our Consulate General in Ceorgotowa to

investigate zeports that commercial cargoes (which could conceal

11ltelt ams tralite out of Cube) had developed between Beltish

Gusone end Cuba: Investigations to date have been negative.

SECRET

HM 70953

DocId: 32424014 Page

10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

4. Control of

not of. State

Cooperated wich the Foralen Assats Control Office of

tbo Troasury Department in doveloping blocking controle witi

respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

Strangchentag.of.Counter-Innurrency. Garabilities

Repartment of

#. Continued the Inetalletion of military communica

tions Encilictes lo Latin Anartea. Operattooni detes for the

malti-channal radio stations to bo installed la Menagra,

Nicarague a0d Tegucigalpa, Honduree have bean deleyed to 15

Octobor 1963 and 15 Decenber 1963, respectively because of new

engincering and contractust requirements. Negorlacions aro

concinuing vith Coloble and Bcundoe for Inecallotion of U.3.

military radio facilities. Complocion of a new emmercial trait

isthmian coble in the Panana Unal Boe within the coning month

to expected to leprove military comontentione within the

United States and the Comander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the curvestlance of Cuba by U.S, Forces,

reporting de before to 0,3, comandera, ongoisatious and agenetes.

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32424014

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SACRET

Reporte of survelilence have been dinneninated to all the have

a requirement to know,

Botablished a. 24 hous per day, 7 days per seel duty

watch at the U.5, ISlitazy Groupe in the Cartbbean countries ta

conjunction with Implementation of the milttary slercing ayaten.

Continued efforto to ataff the J.S. Southern Gemand Intelligence

Center with property clessed,

traloed pezsonnel (this center is

the military focal point for zoleying Information concerning

the moment of suiversives), Filled, partlally, the authoriaed

billets la the U.0: Souther Comand Intelligence Center end

toor under consideration the problem of an increane in the billet

structure in the Center. The Conmander 1a-Chief, V.S. Southern

Cormand together with hie intelligence offleer visited Honduras

and Nicarague and deterined that no signiftcant problens existed

which would intorfare wich elfoctive operations in thoce

countries -

d. Action previously initated by the Coumander, U.6.

Naval Forces, Souther Commnd (COUSTAVSO) to estabilch a Ball

Craft Inspection and Tratning To (SCIATT) do & contribucion to

the Caribbean Surveilinnce Byaten ta progressing atlefsctorily.

SECRET

50955

DocId: 32424014 Page

12

---

## Page 13

SECREE

Permanent assignment of U.S. toast Guard personnel to SCLAI?

in the Canal Kone has been approved and the 1.5: Coast Guard

has taken appropatate toplementing actions»

•. During the portod of this report, the SCIATE con»

ducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarcnat, Coote

Rice, Training me siven to 13 members of the Quardle Civil

of Costa Flea whe vero aicher newly assigned to the 40 foot

Conet Curd tilley boate (CCUs) or were to be asotgned as

replacevent crew nembers.

£. A quarterly Inspaction and evaluation off the CUla

provided ottor Central Amortcan countated was conduatod during

the portod 17 to 31 August by a nobile tratning toin (HIT)

made up of SCATT personnel.

§• Contloued efforto to laprovo the intonal secrity

of Latin Azertean aries through the proviston of Intelligence

Advisors. Presently there are such advisors asaigned co 14

tatia countries, emphoolsing conterintelligence and counter-

aub varaton.

h» Duzing the roperting perlod liTe conducied nraining

in countertosurgency for the amod forcos of Colombla; Bolivie,

Venezuels, Fezu and St Salvador-

NN J0953 D0010:32424014 Page 13

---

## Page 14

*12+

* Civic Action MiTe were sent to Quetemala, Bolivia,

Colombie, El Salvador; Janated and Seurdor:

6. Enchanes of. Intellisense.on Cuban.

BLETS LON

Santant Tatellagner Arengz

CIA Stations chroughous Latin America coottened An a

sroot sojocity of countrice to funich to the local loternal

pecurity organtzations ith whos chey are in Maicon talomo

Cion concoming travoters to and from Cube, t0 wll as such

infomation as cane to Cla'o actontion concuming the movenent

of funds, true and propaganda notorial. In mony ineteens,

the

funishing of Intornacion to the internal security service by

the CLA Station nos paralloled by the fumishing of similar

Infomaston to the toroign offtee by tho habaisoder or his

roprescutative. The zesponce to thile intorcarton has varied

greatly: The Central Anerteen countries, in general, began to

pay attention to the information and coke setton on it. At the

dustng the zeporting period

Otier ontxere, the Areaillen Governent/shoved licele Inolination

so follow up on the infomattos.

Seats

Restorated to the Fozeign Mintster of Peru our

interest in having the foets of the Puszto Maldonado Ineldene

Nt 70953

Do01d: 32424014

Page 14

---

## Page 15

*13°

broughe to the attention of the CAS, and urged that thie action

bo cakes sa scon as possibles

Urged the Covertment of Guatenals to subalt cutdone

of comatoe aestvier

the OAS

Dinteratie

Mesiane.

Central Antal lineney Anene

sTo he filled in by M. Wheele)

50955

DocId: 32421014

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Dopertent, 2t State

Instructed Ambassy In Pas to follow up closely on

charzes of Involvement of Cuben miocton in intemal politica

of Bollvia, and, at the Embassy'e discration, to point out to

Bolivian officialo the opportunity for a possible break in

relations with. Cube- Embassy 1 Pos was not able to press

for a break woon the evidence of Cuben Intervention did not

prove to be an conclusive an originally reported.

3: Other Saacial Actiona

repartment

Stare

Obtatned sccioa by the COAS on July 3 on the Lavalle

Committeo Report transmieting the document to the goverments

and urging them to inplement the spacisse and genere: recon-

mendatime contained therein as soon as posalble;

b. Through Tubasay Managua Informed che Nicaraguan

Coverment of the mattors antch we mnted to have considered

during the Infomal necting of the Minteters of Secuity and

Intertor of the Istintan countries hold to Menamo, Anguit

26-28 in propazation for the socond fornal meeting of the

Manague Security Conference countzles later this your.

SECREE

NH 50955

Doold: 32421014 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Roassured

President Schiel of Ntcarague in tho

moc emphatte ters

that the Moclear Test Ban Treaty did not

noan thet ou ettitudo

zonz, Costeo has altered in tho

CliChtests and atrassed

our interest: in ancing stoady progreso

by all tie

• Isthalen contries in implonenting the rocamenda»

etons of the Managua Security Conference Co blockt Cuban

aubversive etforte.

d. Explainod in docall the nature of the Cuban threat

and the related polley objectives of the 0.5., during conversa:

cion in London and in Meshingtos wich Mr. Ade Hetson, nevly

eppointed Britieh Anbascador to Cuba:

Intend States Information Ageney.

A. Ibe Agney"s press sorite dring the repozting

period trensultted 12 erciolos, comenterteo, and backgroundero

on ics viroless file corvice to USIA posts throughout latin

Ancies for placenint: In the local nespapers and the Volce of

Anerioo Spankeh troadcasts to Laein Amortoe certed a total

26 commentarice end Zeatures on the nubject ef Cuban-based

subversion in addicton to the rogulaz reporcing of developmente

o the bounty newscasts.

SECRET

J0953

DocId: 32424014 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRE

in 1.65 vo

In response to standiog Agency Lastzucstue to

,sive

epecial attencion to Coveloments solated so Cubo banad

subversion, USIS posto fa latin Ianice vere prompt in reportiag

incidonte and in providing editorial commonts iron the Letto

Anorten preco, all of which uns wood le tho Ageney's radio and

To min developmento treated in the Ageneyla sadio and

press coverago inciated Castro's July 26 apecch urging zovolan

ciono In Locin Averica, the dlocovery of corrosiot wampens

factortos In Guayaquil, the Seundotion Vice Prasident'e secusion

of Cuben responothility for coronton, the statenent by State

Deportent Freas Officer Atchard Phillips thot "potenntal

subveralve ngonte from Cuba to the Caribbean arce vero paseing

ehrough Cron Caynan; the empulsion of a Bolivien youth leadex

for recetying fundn Eron Cale; Caoteontroined terriats in

end

Hondar ›/Bolivian proteste agatnot noddling by tie Cuban Embassy

In tha minerto scrito. A Voteo of Amentes roving roporter in

Lacin Ameriea provided several caports 282

subverston pleture in countries he vieiced.

c. In suppone of the Agency's offort on Cuboi-based

mubveraton, the publicatione center la tenteo boger vork on

Nn 70953

DocId: 32421014 Page 18

---

## Page 19

threo perphlets during the pertod based on Castra's report of

Slo vicic to the Sovlet Unton (chowing that he contradicted

hiusole to sons of bie extravage claim of foviet progrees),

tho losses susterco by Cuban Inhor under Castro, and the fate

as political priooners in Cabe-. When completed, thees perphlets

will be coproduced and lletributed ta quatity throughout the

0x93*

•narichestered de cince educated to Jai ma--

50955

DooId: 32424014

Page 19

---

## Page 20

GROUP I

Excluded from autonatal

downgrading and

declassitication

CIA Intelligence Ates

to end been Gube.

0x0251

Chartered Cubans Airlines (lights between Cuba and

Brazil have becone a bajor monas of trensporting non-Coban

Locio nortons to and from Cals,

The five such flighte since

Into July have carted neesty 400 non-Cubans.

The firat of the zocent cortes " on 25 July - broughe

71 Lacin Anerican passengers to Havana for the 26 July celebro

The other four flighte • on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August -

Cansported over 200 Lacia Amantcans to Brazil frow Hevnna.

Some of tho afrcraft involvad returnod to Cuba with malles

mmbers of passengers.

Many of the 200 Jatin Anortcan passengers

had boan delegatee to the 26 July cererontes,

but others had

apparcntly been ta Cuba for longer poriode and some had probably

received training thore. Of the pasoengers on shese four flighte

to Brantl, 75 waze natives of Coztbbean ana commies.

circutrous travel through Brazl? was evidently designed to bely

conceal the fact ebas they had been in Qube.

Conta Rica

Two Cocta Ricans were enong the passengers on a

charcered Cubena plane which was tured back to lavana at Grand

Cayonn On 11 July 1963, Ono ma ur lazine Hernandez Salazas,

the only Coote Ricaa vocan Inom to have beca sent to Cube for

training as a guercille varfare instructor.

She had been in

cuba since Septenber 1962.

The other Costs Mean passenger Fas

Carloe Gullien, Somer head of the Costa Rican Seetety of

Extends of che

Caban Movolution; who had been in Cuba eince

Novenber 1962.

Scuedos

The CIA Station in Quito reports that the wilitary

Junta, which nosed pour in Foundor on 11 July, can be expected

SUCRED

J0953

Do01d:32424014 Page

20

---

## Page 21

to follow the guidance of the Inbaasy and the Scation in

controlling traval to and from Cuba and che Sovitec bloc,

The

accavicles of Cuhan subversives la Ecuador, at lensc for the

precut, have been (rontly tubibleed by the unsa arceste el

Commiete and pro-Cubans and by the ouclawing of the Comuniot

Farty by the juta.

honduran

It is reported that the Mondusan Comunist Farty bas

issued odora

to tco menbers not to attenpt to travel to Cube

at the present tine,

Tale sotton te appazently the regult of

the Incessing viettance of tha Honduran goverment and the

greater Implenontatton of aczieter travel controle.:

2.

Yovenest on Culen Laccamnda

According to on unconfined report roceived fa July,

a Duncau of tafomation of tho Communiot Party of Cateria fe

bedag forned in colinboration with mensa latina and ie to be

minaged clandestinely.

It expecte to receive nous by shortrave

codto from Cuba end print bullotins for dietributton by zodlo

acocions.

This may indicate a pactarn by watch Raensa Latin

will attempt to dlotzibute on

nore clandestine boeis

in Ochet

azoas in Latin Anorten.

Lestures

It was rettably reported that in nid-July 1963,

snals conatal freighter landed 14 large bones of Commist

propagande on the northem const of Honduras, the bores having

been transferred at son from a laser vessel.

GUERSES

42203.2m8 Ax720

Ererantos mubore of the Peroniot Party, epparently

under the leadachte of such Ilgures ad Noctor Villelon and

John Willtan Cooke, are apparatly receiving mcpuragement and

ponses of lacge mme of money from Cube in support of ches

eitorto to traim and organise cubveroive groups in Argentina.

SITE METERE

70903

DocId: 32424011 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

- 3a

Villalon has stated tbat his plan calls for expanding and

accellerating subveraive

- ectivities in Argentina culainating

In a complete take over within two years.

There 1a no indica

tion that Pezon hinsele las agreed co chie plan.

It has been

reported that leaders of the Commnist Fazcy of Argentina have

been groatly amoyed by the tendeney of the cantro regine to

support the revolutionary Peroniste without having consulted

"the Commiss Party

• of Argentine,

te reported

that the so-called Arny of National

Liberation

(ANL) of Argentina, tnich ts a relativoly mall

Castrolet organization dizected from Cuba by John Wiltan Coole,

bao in recent weake been negotiating for the purchase of arms

and has been offered subnachine guns, basookas and othar weapons

by two oz three privace suppliere.

Ic was reported, howevery

that the AlL was having difficulty setzing nough dollars fron

Cuto to nake signiftcans purchases pesolble.

The Bollvian Minietry of Foreiga Relatloss on 23

Angiet protested forally to the Cuben Charge d'Aftaires in

Le Pos meninot the Cuban Dubasay support to the miners during

the recent crista, Subsequently, however, Foreign Minister

Fellman informed

the Cuban Charge that he need noc sear that

the Govorment of Bolivia would break Alplentic relatione with

Cuba, There has, in fact, been no hard infomation linking the

Cuban Enbassy with the present mining crisis ia spite of some

unconftanad

reports of Cuban support.

Cuban Ambassador to Brasil, Raul los Kours, la reported

to beve attenpred to encounge pensent lengie leader Francisco

Culleo to revitallse the longues in porchem Braail.

According

to sone reports efforts are being made to unify the leadership

and bring dissident elenonte under the general direction of

Jullao.

Ocher reporte Indicate that, although the Cuban Embassy

1s providing guidance and poosibly financial support to the

movement,

bad not yet zesolved the interal dissension in

cho leagues.

SE GRIST

70953

DocId: 32424014 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET

Colombia

From Colombia reporto have bem recelved of increasing

Cuban custstance, prinarily in the for of training courses by

Instructors who have been trained in Cuba, to the Worker-Seudent

Peasant Novaent (MODC), A anall guilte band encountered

by the Colombian azuy in July 1963 was broken up when five

membors of the band ume killed and to others captured.

A

snail quanticy of are and a coneiderable arount of books and

pamphlete on revoluttonary vertare, photographe of nidel Castro,

Cantlo: Clonfuegoe

and bulletina of the MOLC

were found as

the canp site,

Recent: sapozca have indicated an

Increace in

the terrorist efforte of the NOIC and increased

pronises of assletance fron Che Guevara with zogard to the

training of addiciona: NOEC mombers,

Coste Bion

In mid-July an focressed number of guerriltas vero

reportedly

being trained

1n Costa Rica by Adolfo Corcia Barberenn,

woll-known Micareguan revolutionary leader and merber of che

FIN (National Iberation Thront - & Commist doninated, Cuban-

supported, antl Meeragua revolutionary goup).

In excly

Auguet, Alberto Serrato, leader of the FIN in Coote Rica,

lett

with e group of NIcaraguine for the Costa Alcan-Nicazaguen

border.

The purchase of sans and supplies and the recruitment

of Nicaraguans

fox a movement aginat Monrague are also reportedly

undermy la Costa Rica,

Hoctoz Begantes Zanors, Costa Riean egttator, lefe Sen Jose

In nit August for the Wearaguan bordos to swervise the passage

of Nicazaguan guezzilias fron Costa Rica Into Mcazague,

Bogantes, who recantly secured fron attending the May Day

colobratione in Cuba,

WRE

assigned this responsibility by the

Gosta Elean Communiot

• Party-

Hondures

Tho Honduran armed forces began to move againet a group

of pro-Castro

guerrillas operating against the Niceraguan Govern»

ment and

active in the viciulty of the Nicaraguan-Honduran border.

The Hilcareguan

• Matlonal Guard hss been conducting opezacions

on 100 side of

the border against the insurgente since July.

The dease Jungle and ALfsteult terzain, however, will impede the

efforce of both forces

to clininate the guerrillao.

NN 70953

DocId: 32124014 Page

23

---

## Page 24

Infomation on the quorrilla force is ocanty end

conflloting» It 1e apparantly composed of menbers of the lational

Liberation Front (FLI), & Commnist-doninated and Cubon-supported

rovolutionary orginication active primarily in Bonduce

and

Nicaragua since the fall of 1962,

The serength of the force

is not known:

A captured gorilla of the FLI (Nacional Ilberation

Front - & Comunet-dontnated, Cuban-supported, anti- Mcaraguan

group) contessed that he us a nonber of a group of 46

Departnent of Jinozegs, in order to indoctrinate the pessente

end to train them in guezzilla tacties.

He adnitted

Chet ise

hod recelved vis months? gerrilla varfare training in Cuba and

that other FIll loaders had received stadles treining.

He also

said that the ILl tratning camp in Honduzae wad near EX lagarto,

on the Fatuce River.

4.

Irenezer 22119018

noteten Gulaza

Im Bricich Guiass,

Cudang

i Impozt laport Corporation

(Gimpen) zeceived a one mition dollar advance payment deposited

by the Cuban Alimpes Corportion

for goode to be colivered to

Gube in the fucure.

Gimper has,

La tastin

loaned this money

the Govarment of British Guland.

Chodds, Jagan'a People"a

Progresive Ferty 10 the najor acoathoices in exapt

Mohemaes

kaasio, sanger of cumper, has andscased that taper wit be

able to socure additioni loans from Cube In anounte cuttielent

to tide the Jagan governmont over any

foresecable criets.

Ic

no also reported that Cimpes plans to buy aireract, apare parte

and other machinozy in the Inited Stateo for reshlynoat to Cuba,

Genener

Rapests continue to be recotved fron mnny places fedicating

that tho eulecase full of currency to still one of the mont

coron methode used by the Cabang for ramaniccing funds for

by of cutene

uno in supporting subversive nectricien throughout the hentephere.

Instances whore buch funds have been conflocated by the police

have occurred recently in El Salvador, Panam and Ecuador.

NN 70953

DocId: 32424014 Page 24

---

