(198-10009-10098|

(2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10009-10098

CALIFANO PAPERS

ORIGINATOR =

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION +
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

ARMY
JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
MULTIPLE

ICCCA: REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER

SUBVERSION

11/26/1963
19

ICCCA - SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
CUBAN SUBVERSION

RESTRICTIONS ON TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

IB

Redact

05/15/1998

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 25. Memo from Califano to Wheeler, Sloan, Alger, Wendt, Carpenter,
Quilter re: attached paper concerning status of implementation of actions designed to counter Cuban

subversion.

TFK Bevies

artment of the Army EO 13526
Declassify [ Exclude [2 Exempt
Authority

cel eee
Refer To =
novo 000 57 aay LICE

v9
NW 50955

21

Docld:32424708 Page 1


CRED

(re)

2.6 NOV 1962

MEMORANDUM NG, 61 FOR CENERAL EARLE G. WHEELER (3C5)
MR. FRAME H. SLOAN, Dep disst Sec/Del ISA
(Regionsi Aifairs)
MAJOR CEMERAL J. B®. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. F. A. WkvipT, Usti
WMAIGR CLNERAL J. W, CARPENTER, HI, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL C. J. QULTER, Wome

SUBJECT: interdeparimental Coordinating Gosamittee of Cuban Affairs:
Report om Gtatue of Implementation. of Actions Designed to
Counter Subversion (U}

Geference: DA Memeo $64, subject ag above, dated September 19, 1963

Atached herewith ie a final drett ef the Report to the President of
the Dubcommittes en Cuban Subversion on Progress Alade During Septessber
1963 in Curbing Cubon Gubversion in Latin America.

itis requested thet commnests, if any, be provided this office by
8200 bourse, 2 Vetomber 1963. The Department of Defosse portion of
subject report is baced on eubslasions provided ia response ta referenced

memorandums.
Signe e
Joseph A. Galifano,Ire
Joseph A, Califanc, Je.
General Cogasel.
Eaclesgure
Ae fitated
cc: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)
Lt Col Haigue decnee
Mr. Califano” ee
— EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

2°88 SECRET “pop DIR 5200-10 DoS NOT APPLY

HW 50955 Docld:32424708 Page 2



‘SECRET

REPORT OF THE SUR-COMMITTES
-) AGTION TARER DURING SEern@ER 1963 EN CURBING -

“CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN aMeRtca ¢.°

SECRET

ace, 85a baneral dnote



“ DRAFT

"SECRET Ly
; 11/23/63

Le Control of Travel to and From Coba. rae
Department of State ; erie
ae. Instructed Embassy Tauis to call to. the attention

of the Foreign Minietry owe concern at increased evidence
' of Aeroflot attests te establish North Africa routes to ey

Guba, especially throvsh Algeria, ‘and our conviction chat

Tunisia has a valid case in thwarting any Bloe civil aiz :

; penetration of Africa;

be. Instructed Enbasey Conakry to contact Guincan Covern=

ment oificiais, ‘veainding them of thele past assurances |

” that so Asroflot flights to Cubs would be pormitted to...

Bitsy Conatey facilities, and %G express our concern at

vecent indications that Aeroflot was Preparing te establich °

: service te (Saba via: Gonakwy.

‘Ss Toateucted Consulate Fort au France to tavestigare 7 :

aad ¥veport on alleged landing and refuelling of Cubana

'.. @izersft at Guadeloupe. Also dowble-checked atrectly *

with the Shell Coupany, the supplier of the fuel, 0 000"
instructed Enbessy Paris te query the French Government
about alleged Cubaca use of the Guadeloupe facility, and

‘to express eur concern at this evidence of Cuba's attenpt :

to use French Caribbean depondencies for flights | ‘to aad © oo
HW 50955 DeclIa: 32424708 Page as. : ' grepey ‘ rence


HW 50955

flight is permieced to use Bragilien feeilities,

Cubena that ne aviation fuel was avaliable in Barbados and

“£. Gentlaued inter-Departmental offerte to provent™

Docld:32424708 Page 5. |“

o ©
; : ~ SECRET ere

wae

fxom Latin America,

“ad, Instructed Exhassy Rio to make a new approach to nas

the Evazilian Forelga Ministry to express our concern ”
at Cuba's continuing use of “charter” flights to Brazil”
and the laxity of Brazilian efficials in the control of

_. Passengers. | During the course ef the month the Brazilian Repeatee

Goverment began tightening controls against ‘Cubana’
Elighte. Specifically, all requests for landing ciehaeervien
were henceforth to be Processed by the Foreign Ottice, an
with sppropriste delays, Alse tighter passenger, erey

end cargo controls were to be dnstitated when a Cubana

e. Determined that the U.K, had specifically verned

thst 4.31.6, would, ia the future, respect Shell Company's. ‘

decision te deny fueling to Gubaga planes,

‘xesumption of ferry service between Cuba and the U8. |

which a British eieizen, Harold Derbor, haa been attempt-

ing to establish during the past several month. —



- | ge. Inetaucted Consul Geargetowm to javestigate and -.

; veport on evidenes the Department received which indicates).

that Cabs is planning to sell merchant vessels to British 7
Golena in order to facilitate the establishment of

regular service for passengers and cargo.”

. Genrral IntelRirence Agency
a... Im connection with the Seventh Congress of the z
International dnion (UTA) held in Habana September 29 +”.

Gstobex 3, 1953 the fuenss Alves Station:

(1) encouraged the Argentiss Rational ‘odesation
“| g£ architects co oppose Argentine attendance at the :

Babane meeting, with the reeult that 25 of the 39

; i: :
practicing architects who had planned to attend can~ =”.
eglied their participstion;

(2) arranged to prevent the attendance of any

officially authorized Argentine delegation at the Yabana
meeting, but encomraged che attendanse of an official
Avgentine delegatioa of anti-Commmise coloration at an
international architecta mesting to be heid in Mexico

iA Osteber 5

o.

\ aw: 50955 Docld: a2aza70e Page 6.



‘MW 50955 - DocTd: 32424708 Page 7 = meen

in representations te the Bracilian Fereign Office,

issue landing permits for Cubana flights on September.

Cubsrs flights to Sas Paulo.

(3) delivered a memovendua to the Minister of 7

interior concerning Cuban charter flights to Bragil which

supported the dmbsssadoz's request that the Argentine : °
goveroment ezpress concern over such flights.

b. Rio de Janeiro Station continued to furnish

_ the Embassy with date on Cubana flights to Brazil used

Also induced Ro airport officials to impose stringent —

passport control and baggexe efforta.. These efforts

* gontriuted to the Brazilian Covernment’s failing te

21, 24 and 25, 1963 goreing theiz cancellation, When 0". |

Subang, because of Rerassuent at Bie, began usiag the -
landing facilities ia Saa Pawlo where sontrols were 7
von existent, CIA tuigieted and obtained 4 local Liaison

agvecment fox similar harassment ia the event of ‘€ataxe 7

, Nexice City station inspired @ press campaign. :
ef hoof and mouth end smallpox epidemics in Cuba, prior ~
te the Architects Congress to discourage participation

du the Nebasa meeting, The vasulting quarantines: and

innoculations

wy



_dmmeculations were a factor in discouraging $2 of the

69 Mexican professional architects who were expected to

go to Habana from attending the Congress.

Ti. Control of Moyewent of Propaganda

WNicenener b& Cet €R, Ah

HW 50955 Docld:32424708. Page 8”


SEUROL,

eo Bw

of Slandestine Movement of Guerrillas:

_ Made the n@eessary arrangements through Embassy
Tegucicaina with, the Goverbnent of Honduras for the
' dispatel of three U U.S. helicopters to give logistical

assistance- to the Honduran any in dite effort te locate

and elimimate the band of guerrillas allegedly operating

in the Fatsca River area slong the HondiranBicacapios

border.

' Beparement of Defense : 4
: Three CH-13 hellespters from USSOUTHCOM eupported.. Rs .
Honduran arued forces conducting counter-Ineurgency aneeace
operations in-the Patuce River evea, A total of ‘a7 sorties
were flown vesulting in delivery of 39 28 pounds of supplies,
evacuation of 12 sick Honduran soldiers, aivlift of 19 a
passengers to points in the opexatiynal aEa and
recovery of 409 pounds of su spplies fren the operational |

es

ared.

Wee

SECRET.

4 5 ce on aes £ Le

AW 50955 “Docld: 32424708: Page 9 we : pean caauune ao



neEG 7am

sfer of Funds

TY. Control of Tra:

Bepartment of State

ae Instructed Entassy Mexico City to inform the
Mexiean aivline SAESA that their proposal to purchase
sugpise Caban aireraft would in fact resuit in the
accrual to Cuba of a elgnificant emeust of herd curzeacy, _
and the U.S. waild have to oppose the transaction.
Further, if dellare were invelved in the purchase,
ds would be a violation of the Cubsn Assets Control
Regulations. ;

b. Intermed Department of Treasury, Foreign Assets ;

'Gentrol Office, of the activicies ef Semondelp Enterprises,

@ Mizmi tiem engaged im sending remittances te personas °°

in Cots in vidletion of the Cuban Assets Control (|

Repulatione «
e,. Instructed Conaulate, Belize to inform

Me. Rickard Joyce, aa American national, that his’

commercial transactions with Caba were in violation
cf the Cuban Assets Control Regulations and that he

is prohibited from engaging in such trade.

Ve

HW 50955. DocId: 32424708. Page 40 i


ve

a. Thirteen Latin Aserican officers graduated from
the counter-insurgency Operations Course of the U.5.
Avay School for Latin America in tle Panama Canal. Zooe
en 20 September. Daring. the month, @ tocal of 91 Latin
American officers encolied in courses: stressing counter=-
insurgescy at the Army Canal Zone school, ‘

4

\ b, Elght U.S. Amey counter-insurgency mobile
trainiag teams were providing trainiag to the Armed —
Forces of Eive Latin Amexvieen ‘countries daring the period,

W.8. Ade Force eountior- insurgency traiaing teams were :

in bm countries.

ec. Hn the Canal Zone, 15 etudenta from five countries ve :
were midex instruction in the epevation of coast guard

utiliey patyol ereft used for coastal surveillance.

Siz students fron two countries were undergoing siniler
training in the UsitedSSeates ;
: da. AUS. Navy counter-insurgeney training team -
is im Veuwcusla to aseist im iwpeoving the eeeurity

of off installations in Lake Maracaibo, : i

x areeseae : Doge et Sw

NW 50955 Docld:32494708 ‘Page 11 ’ rane re



: e. Costa Rica and Hondarasa were provided one
Cersne LES airerafe each for medical etvie netion and.
internal eecurity purposes.

£, On May 25, 1953, three M638 ZAMAN helicopters |
were provided te the government af Colowbla on @ SQ-day
oan. the Colosbian Government requested an extension

‘of the loan and a S0-day extensloa hes been approved.

- Sentral Intelbisence Accor

ai :
Be fe ferey Station has recvuited, on &

”. eis] basis, a former member of the 13 Rovenher guerzilla
group and debrigfings are in process. Negotiations 050 <)~
‘continue with the Government of Guatemala for the

formation of a now internal security sexvice.

», Lima Station has agreed te fumish

with an outbeard moter”

to imeretac their petrol capabiiity on rivers erossing
the Bolivian frentier. Osr information is that. the
rivers esossing this frontier have provided the ptiuery ;
a@yvenues for fecent atteupts te gain clendestine entry

of persomiel and weapons inte Peru.

NW.50955  Docld: 32424708 - Page 12



Department pf Vefense

Engineering iustallation work continued en radio

etetions for Managua, Nilearagua and Teguelgelpa,

Honduras. | fo further progrese hes been mide in reaching

agueaments with Colombia and Eouador for wighta to

establigh radie stations in thege countries. Installation

of che new trans-icthmaian comercial cable in Panama -

ie neatias completion. ;

General Inrerit

CLA Stations continued thely exchange of intelligence

infomation with local intelligence azencies. The
following actions are of speatal significances

a. The CIA Station in Buenos Aires furnished

with

the

information on the travel of Avgestines to Cuba, and re+ :

guested that provide name traces and debrief t

ruavellers on their return whenever feasible.

Rr

provided the traces, but id mot conduct any debriefings.

‘The Station bas not fale lt feasible to try to remedy

this onlesion in view of che pexsopnel changes expected
e

within after the nes gove cement is installed on

HW 50955  Docld: 324 Q9tolmage 13 SECRET

be



® asa vesulc of information passed by the Bogota

‘Station

concerning Colombian travellers to Cxba, a runber

of passport violeciens have been discovered in which
travellers to Cuba are using pacsporte issued co other . ;
persons . There ig 2 reluctanse, however, on the part
of the Colombian Government to prosecute this type
of vielation,

a

Be At the ur

2 of the CLA Station In Lime,

instructed ene of

its penotrations of leftiet groups ta campaign for ea trig

co Cuba ia receive gueyviila warfere training.”

Thie asset hes been offered, and has accepted, an opportumity:

to make the trip by the Leftist Ravolutionary Movement

BR), ped

vary vakiele of Cuban sulversive activities

P.

Pera. Byiefiug ead debriefing ef the asset will be

BUS y
im response to the efforts of the Statien ia Lima, sent

of its agents to Chile where he will sign aboard a

eon fxeighter calling at Habaea. The asset has been
given specific intelligence requirements to fulfill.

. The

‘HW 50955  DocId:324294708 Page 14



oe

= ie

= ; has vequested from the CIA representative in
“iioa any information that he might eupply on subversive
elenents posing @ threat to the Government of Peru.
Tale seqiest hes opened an addicional ghanast to the
highest level of the Goverment with a consomaltant
prospectior effective action when needed.
 d, Shrough regular Listen channels, |

[has been provided

by CIA with the names of oli Venemuelans Imiown to have

travelied te Cubs from February through August 1983,
Thie activity will be eareded est on @ continuing baeis;
the names are tow being imtegented into the regular
watek Met képt at incermetionsl alxports in Venezuela.
Tus fae, at least theee returices have been arrested

has indheated ite appreciation of the data

on the basis of the inforsetion eupplied ce ;

being supplied aod desires that the arrangaaent be
gontinesd.

ce nf Cuban olomtic, Commercial and Culture

Be special actions to report, / a
' s “, WEL,
HW 50955 -DocId:32424708 Page, 15 SECERT . ; :



HW 50955

VIEL.

c Sneotal Actions
Ueited States Informition Apsney

a. The Agency's press service tranemitted seven

Cth

axticles rélating to Cuban subversion on its wireless

file sereles to SIS offices throughout Latin Amariea ;

for piacement in the local newspapers. Developments
eeported ia shese articles Included demands by the Bolivian

Sesete for the ouster of the Cuban Chargé d'Aftaires,

‘terrorism and govermnent comateraction in Venezuela,

the seizure in Reuador of en arma and explocives cache

| teportedly received from Cuba, several articles on the

|, International Union of Architects Congresa in Habana

, Subject of Cuba, che other arricles dealing for the moot

DocId;32424708 Page 16

(emphasizing the Invest of the Castro regime to use the
Congress as a forum for ite propaganda claims),. aad

Assistant Secretary §

rtia's Los Angeles epeech in which

he pointed out the regime's affinity for Chinese eommmist |
ésetring and tts cumtinued emphasis on violent revolution

Na press gerviee tranenlited

aud eubversion,. In all,

2? articles and commentaries during September on the

pert with eeouemle and polltieal condi¢lens Inglde the

countxy as @videnced by the regime's own admissions and |

the vesorts of refugece..

b.



‘14 =

B. The Voice of Amerdea Spanish broadeasce to Latin

éearica during September carxied a total of 20 news

anglyses, commentaries ronan ay and interviews

related ta the subject of Cuban subversion. Seme of

mis txeated Included the following:

neulary on commindsé embaseles as ghananels for

tadents who

subversien;' 2 sews analyses

visiced Cuba; Assistast Seeretary Martin's Les Angeles

43 & mews angiyeds on Cuban subversion aa an obstacle

au the norealization of U.8.-Sovier relations: a threee

part serias on university sutonany in Latin Amerien;

« Sesture on the latter of a Colembtan ceudent who

went to Cuba on a sehoisrabip and was diaiilesioned by

the commmist J tleny @ commentary on Che Guevara's
eeeent ayticle on tevolutionay strategy; and a cometary

in Guba. Many of these items vere

several tinse fa the beoadeasts. The “Rendeavous

with Guba" hour carried Sear or five fommentaries tia

tly om econemie and political

fsa eeu interviews al:

Py,

mate inside Cobe. Of especial note, che Cuban

imself veseted angrily io Voice of

fee a

the


NW_50955 DocId:32424708 Page 18

cs. On Septesber 27, the Agency issved @ clreular
instzuction to alllite Latin American posts urging

greater attention te opportunities for publicizing Cubans

‘

stinelated guls sstiag the various types of
infornetlon ‘activities to support this effort, and requesting
mouthiy seports of field actions takea te faplement the
instruction. This was done as a follow-up to the original

instruction on Cubon subversion which wag issued April 3,

@, GIA in Beteliesseteted Ja the defection and

helete Reberte Ford: Cndarse

3

euploltatien of a Cuban a

oF

in Posto Alegre on 4 Septembor 1963. Peres uae a wenber
. ere
ef the Caban besket-bell team ubleh partielpared im the’

World University Gauss (FISU) held in Porte Alegre

eo. desietaned was given te the Gevermeent of

Saatemala in the intexsvegation of aeme of thoss whe

avvested in comoection with the Commmist Parcy

fate May 1963._

me ‘Galy



NW 50955

im

&
5

with thé esptaved ants, the Comumist Party,

gueveliles, or angthing else that could be constsuad

as inerininatiue. The ona whe did adait knowledge

decied that he wae iavelved in any wey. The Sovermment

of Guatemala wante to Imterregate
SS

erson agein at
a& later dete.

e, GIA Station in Kontevides arranged for an

“‘isterriew between an Uouguayan whlicary. intelligence

officer ond o retent defector from the Montevideo

« which extensive information regarding

vyarsive aevivity in Usugaay. Ag a vesult of this report,
tha HCG bee directed x $f interior to appoint

@ epecial commlesion to study the preblen of Commateat

ssedous as to

subversion and to mile = course
of action should be taken by the Ureguayan Covernmment..

ge Of +

ah to grade for pecs

stronger

DocId: 32424708 Page 19


{

i HW 50955

the Station haa taker

by pla snk

gdm ltaneous

features of c

DocId: 32424708 Page 20

the sallent
abalia: ir prasa

the detector wil tbe
