02-10002-10124)

[2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

aa Date
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION. SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Jcs
202-10002-10124
JCS CENTRAL FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

osD

CYRUS R. VANCE

MULTIPLE RECIPIENTS

CUBAN AFFAIRS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
06/26/65

27

ICCCA, ADMINISTRATION

PSYCHOLOGICAL PROGRAMS - CUBA
SECOND LATIN AMERICAN YOUTH CONGRESS
POSSIBLE RETALIATORY ACTIONS BY CUBAN GOVERNMENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL. DOCUMENT
CONFIDENTIAL

1A, 1¢

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
05/15/98

JcS Central File, Box 3, 4 of 15. Memo from Vance to
SecArm, SecNav, SecAir, CJCS, and ASD(ISA) re: Cuban
Affairs in the Dept. of Defense. ICCCA report on

Possible Retaliatory Actions by the Castro Government.

EXEMPT PER E.0. 13526
SEC 3.3) Ss

HW 50955 Docld:32425002 Page 1

09/14/98



6 O==- ag ov
a : oon 8

: \
to 31 December 1963 0 os AND:

ae v

Re

MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL HAIG iS
i OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL, DA

Subject: Psychological Prograns Subcommittee - Cuba

1. An informal meeting of the Interdepartmental Subcommittee
(Psychological Programs) on Cuban Affairs was convened in i
Room 7519, New State at 1430 hours, 30 December 1963. The
agenda for the meeting was not pre-announced. Present from G
State were Gee ad | rson ae and Montenegro; 60 A
from C: Tilton an “from USIA, Mur: 3 and the .
undersigned. : 7 Bar oC,

2. The following topics were discussed:

a. CUTAL (Unified Labor Federation for Latin America)
meeting scheduled for Rio de Janeiro, 2h = 28 January 1964.
Mr. Montenegro, State labor advisor for Latin America,
described the anticipated meeting as a "foundingt assemblage
of left-wing Labor leaders, socialists, and commnists who
will attempt to resolve their differences. State believes
that. there will be a concerted effort by the communists
“to wrest the leadership of the fledgling federation from
‘Mexican socialist elements. Following actions were
ie discussed:

Le. (1) State to cable US Ambassador to Brazil to
oa ~ ascertain the degree to which local (not national)
Bee: governmental elements will support disruptive and
harassing actions before and during the meeting.

(2) State to circulerize Latin American posts ‘
with the suggestion that local influences be brought
to bear in order to discourage country delegates
from attending the meeting.

(3) USIA to consider VOA broadcasts to Latin
f . America in order to exploit exposes of Cuban
py East German, and Chinese Communist labor conditions.

} .to continue black propaganda operations .
ss & pe inj penser suggest ‘postponement of the meeting. CONG
wii . :

DOWGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS;
DECLASSIPIED AFTER 12 YEARS,
DOD BIR 5200.10 *

HW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 2



. | Copy,

SYSTEMAT!

BY JCS 0
chiRssi

<SOMMENT: ja roinkmum of approximately 20 days supply of water is
| maintained in feserve storage at the naval base. Provision is made i
“ fox the emergency resupply of water by tanker, which would require

, MEMORANDUM FOR MR, JOHN H. GRIMMINS

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban’: e
. Affairs: Possible Retaliatory Actions by the Castro ~
Government (U)} 3 a

Reference:  Mermorandum from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs :
Dept of State, subject as above, 13 Sep 63 Beet iterate

In response to reference mernorandum, outlined below is the
status of existing contingency plans for those priority situations agreed
upon at our meeting of September 12, 1963, The numbering of the para-
graphs below corresponda to the format utilized in the attachment to
reference memorandum and includes those actions for which Department
of Defense specific or related military contingency plans exist.

“"A. Actions Against U, S, Targets in Cuba
“4, Harassment of Guantanamo

"{a) Cutting off of the water supply"

a maximum of el; en days and which would be implemented on order
of CINCLANTFLT./ In addition, evacuation of non-essential personnel,
in 24 hours or leds can be accomplished if directed.

‘(b) Closing access to the base by Cuban workera
who commute”

(hot /hoet Sista (e9 wer) ase /Ce/ b,

ie FZ. & O AAS

CALLY REVIEWED
74 Fret Aags,

7 DOWNGRADED AT: 12 YEAR INTERVALS

Op: : NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
copies CONFIDENTIAL OD DIR $200.19
OCOESA 7 21/6 34

BW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 3



a a)

/ AON que :

purpose of substantially reducing the time required for the U. Ss. Cee

fighter alreraft to reach the scens, Such overflights may be author-
ized only by specifically designated commandera,

QO

\

"5. Attack on staging areag employed by exiles in the
Caribbean"

COMMENT: (With regard to Castro attacks on areae in
Plans exist fod the U, S. military to Yeepond to requests |

Guard and British navel forces with regard to f
Staging areas which may be used by oxties in the Bahamas.

‘NE, Actions Against Targets in the US
“h, Sabotage or terroristic bombings't

COMMENT: The level of intensity of such actions contemplated within
the context of the pay:

per ia not considered to exceed the capabilities of
law enforcement agencies to control, Theve are militasy contingency

plans to protect agéinst thie tyse of activity at a much higher level of
intensity, :

“2, Jaxaming of US radio stationg"t

Wir: There ave standing operating procedures ta overcome
interference and Jamming methods employed against military cormmuni«
cations, : :

The summaries of actions sat forth above are essentially defensive
reactions to Cuban initiatives. There are, of course, existing and related
military plans, retaliatory in nature, which Tange up to and include a full
scaic military invacion of Guba,

it was generally agreed at the September 13, 1963 mocting of
the Committee that the most likely actions of the Cuban government are

these which would not provoke United States retallation seriously and
immediately endangering the Castro regime, It appears more likely
that Castro might intensify his support of subversive forces in Latin

7 Ose

4

CONFISENTIAL

AW 50955 Docld:32425002 Page 4



REPORT CONCERNING POSSIBLE RETALIATORY
ACTIONS BY THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT

1. The numbering of the subparagraphs below corresponds
to the numbering of those actions for which specific or
related military contingency plans exist. A brief summary
of the action contemplated by those plans is also provided.

"A. Actions Against U.S. Targets in Cuba

"4, Harassment of Guantanamo

"(a) Cutting off of the water supply"

(A minimum of approximately/20 days supply of
r is maintained in reserve storage at tt
‘al b made

a as of eighteen days and which

@\be implemented on eee oe Glivgkawrart. | Hvaciation
non-essential personnel in 24 hou: r less if

directed and consistent with national policy.

"(b) Closing access to the base by Cuban workers who
commute"

19)

NT Provision is made for the introduction offa
tailored Naval Construction Battalion uni
containing necessary skills, the requisite labor
“force, and the possibie stationing of a repair
ship at Guantanamo Bay aboard which are personnel]
fwith appropriate skills. Critical personnel
uid be transported by air, to arrive within
hours, when ordered by CINCLANTFLT. _

"(c) Staging demonstration and riots at the gatés"

c(i)

COMMENT Execution of measures appropriate to the

nce, ranging ‘from no.action : : 3

as the use of fire hoses and lacnryma' gents a

Base,

Guantanamo.
"(d) Sniping at base sentries resulting in injury

COMMENT Measures may be taken appropriate to the

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

degree, kind, and exact #is fis of the disturb~
may be oe by the Commander, U.3. Naval
or death"
JeRRERENTIAL NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.
Enclosure

2425002 Page 5



a

circumstance and situation ranging from no action,
through action taken in self defense by a wounded
sentry or those assisting him, {through increas
defense conditions, placing personnel in positions
protected from fire, and return of fire if appro-
priate and required as determined by the Commander
Naval Base, Guantanamo.’ The precise nature of

he U.S. response carinot be determined in advance.
single shot from an unseen. sniper. resulting in
njury or death to a sentry is one thing,a continued
pniping fusillade froma number 6f persons is another

COC)

“"(e) Sabotaging of base’ facilities™ -
ct

OMNENT Extensive security measures are taken to
prevent such sabotage by the Commander U.S.
Naval Base, Guantanamo. The nature of the action
taken would depend upon the nature of the

sabotage and be designed to assure the continued
functioning of the Base.

"B. Actions Against U.S. Aircraft and Shipping

"1. Harassment of U.S. Shipping using Yucatan Channel,
Florida Straits, Windward Passage"

COMMENT The rules of engagement, which have been

approved by the highest national authority
provide that ships or aircraft ordered to the

\fincluding pursuit to, but not into, Cuban air
space or territorial waters. Commanders are
not authorized to organize deliberately a

kpursuing force. U.S. pilots are not authorized

to attack unless either they. or the ship they
are defending is endangered’ by Cuban attack.

T the event Cuban aircraft limit their action.

‘to harassment, U.S. pilots are limited to making

itheir presence known by flying close aboard the
(Cuban plane.

"C. Actions Against Cuban Exiles

"1. Shooting down of pirate planes, possibly of US
registry.

"2. Hot pursuit of or attack on raiding planes over
the high seas or another country's territory a

territory.
poRenENll 2 Enelosure

NW 50955 DocIa:32425002 Page 6



GONFIBENHAL

"3. Hot pursuit of or attack on raiding boats on the
high seas or another country's territorial’ waters

"4, Attack on mother ship or exile raiders on the
high seas or in another country's territorial waters

COMMENT It is noted that it is contrary to national
policy to permit raids on Cuba originating from
U.S. territory, however, at the time a ship or
aircraft is discovered to be under Cuban attack
it may be difficult to identify it as a "pirate!
"raider", "mother ship" or "exile raider", even
though this, in fact, may be the case. Ail the
situations, set forth above, are covered, at
least in part, by the rules of engagement which
have been approved by the highest national
authority. However, the action summarized below
is authorized only in the case of U.S. ships and
aircraft and those not clea’ ide:
being of foreign registry. \Commanders are not,
authorized to organize deliberately a pursuin,
force, however ships or aircrart ordered to the
area of the attack may take immediate protective.
measures including pursuit to, but not into,
Cuban air space or territorial waters. U.S.
pilots are not authorized to attack unless either
they or the ship or aircraft they are defending
ds endangered by Cuban attack. In the event Cuban
aircraft limit their action to harassment, U.S.
pilots are limited to making their

GYD presence known by flying close aboard the Cuban
plane. Overflight of Cuba by fighter aircraft

ad is authorized only in those instances where it

we has been established that Cuban attack is being

made on a U.S. ship or aircraft and then only
for the purpose of substantially reducing the
time required for the U.3. fighter aircraft
to reach the scene., Such overflights may be
authorized only by specifically designated
commanders.

"5. Attack on staging areas employed by exiles in
the Caribbean

COMMENT) With regard to Castro ‘attacks on areas in Latin
America, plans exist for the U, military to
1 )#respond to requests for’assistal ice-by Latin,
oC 1@) » American governments subject to US government
\approval. There is also an arrangement for the

CNTEERAAL

3 Enclosure

2425002 Page 7

vA



pane

interchange of information between the U.S,

Coast Guard and British naval forces wit? ue

regard to possible staging areas which my be
ed by exiles in the Bahamas.

"E. Actions Against Targets in the US

"1. Sabotage or terroristic bombings"

"2. Jamming of US radio stations"

COMMENT There are standing Operating procedures to
overcome interference and jamming methods
employed against military communications.

2. "Any additional pertinent information on existing
or related plans" and "recommendations , if any, on other
likely actions which might be taken by the Castro govern-
ment in retaliation for Cuban exile raids" was also
tequested. The furnished list of possible retaliatory
actions by the Castro government were of "the level of
intensity which the committee agreed to be in the most
likely category." It is inferred that what the committee
had in mind by the most likely "level of intensity"
was that level which would not provoke the United States
into taking extensive countermeasures which might seriously
endanger the Castro regime. The summaries of actions,
set forth above, which might be taken under existing
military contingency plans ate essentially defensive
reactions to Cuban initiatives. There are, however, existing
and related military plans, retaliatory in nature, which

range up to and include a full scale military invasion of
Cuba.

3. If it is assumed that the most likely actions of the
Cuban government are those which would not provoke United

COREE 4 Enclosure

NW 50955 DocIa:32425002 Page 8 e



0 = au

! eons
"3 31 December 1963. uss WO paseo g/OR
OA pS

v
AON Fg Ment
vos.
MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL HAIG iS eau
; OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL, DA
|
|

Subject: Psychological Programs Subcommittee - Cuba

i. An informal meeting of the Interdepartmental Subcommittee
(Psychological Programs) on Cuban Affairs was convened in ;
Room 7519, New State at 1430 hours, 30 December 1963. The
agenda for the meeting was not pre-announced. Present from A
AL paar caper weet gee Bowdler, Sylvester, and Montenegro; CO
rom on and from USIA, Mur 3 and the
undersigned. i sh oC)

2. The following topics were discussed:

a. CUTAL (Unified Labor Federation for Latin America)
meeting scheduled for Rio de Janeiro, 24 - 28 Janvary O64.
Mr. Montenegro, State labor advisor for Latin America,
described the anticipated meeting as a "founding" assemblage
of Left-wing labor leaders, socialists, and comminists who
will attempt to resolve their differences, State believes
that there will be a concerted effort by the communists
to wrest the leadership of the fledgling federation from
Mexican socialist elements. Following actions were
discussed:

(1) State to cable US Ambassador to Brazil to
ascertain the degree to which local (not national)
governmental elements will support disruptive and
harassing actions before and during the meeting.

(2) State to circularize Latin American posts
with the suggestion that local influences be brought
to bear in order to discourage country delegates
from attending the meeting.

(3) USIA to consider VOA broadcasts to Latin
-America in order to exploit exposes of Cuban,
“East German, and Chinese Communist labor conditions.

4) CIA.to continue black propaganda operations : |
wat in hich suggest ‘postponement of the meeting. CO) |

. ;

DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS;
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS.
DOD DIR 5200.10

OS, ASE Cowtral Ne-2 Oy

AW 50955 Docld:32425002 Page 9


i

. MEMORANDUM FOR MR, JOHN H. CRIMMINS
: Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban e
7 Affaire: Possible Retaliatory Actions by the Castro
Government (U)

Reference: Memorandum from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Dept of State, subject as above, 13 Sep 63 os

In response to reference memorandum, outlined below is the
atatus of existing contingency plans for those priority situations agreed
1, Upon at our meeting of September 12, 1963. The numbering of the para
i graphs below corresponda to the format utilized in the attachment to
yeference memorandwn and includes thoge actions for which Department
of Defense specific or related military contingency plans exist.

YHA, Actions Against U. S. Targets in Cuba
“4. Havassment of Guantanamo
‘{a) Cutting off of the water supply"
COMMENT:

ace '{b}) Closing access to the base by Cuban workers
| who commute"

(-hOt/hooe Soela (sour) ool cerh

Tes OR RS

SYSTEMATICALLY REVIEWEI

cont

“an
‘ DOWNGRADED AT: 12 YEAR INTERVALS
rat} NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
spTos an:
RE zh = DOD DIR $200.19

QCOESA 721/684

AW 50955 DoclId:32425002 Page 10



j

UGONFIDENTIAL

seaman
'

COMMENT: Provision is made for the introduction off

al |
|
|
|
‘ al |
"(c} Staging demonstration and riots at the gates" |

COMMENT: Execution of measures appropriate to the degree, ¢

and exact location of the disturbance, ranging from no action!

“{d} Sniping at base sentries tesulting in injury or
death"

COMMENT; Measures may be taken appropriate to the circumstances
and situation ranging from no action, through action taken in self defense
& wounded gentry o those assisting hiea,4

“{e) Saboteging of base facilities"

NT: Extensive security measures are taken to prevent such

by the Co: ander U. S, Naval Base, Guantanamo. The nature
of the action taken would depend upon the nature of the sabotage and be
designed to assure the continued functioning of the Base.

e “B, Actions. Against U. S, Aircragt and Shipping

“i, Harassment of U, S. Shipping using Ucatan Channel,
Florida Straits, Windward Paseage"

NT: The rules of engagement, which have been approved by
st national authority provide that ships or aircraft ordered to |

os

2

HW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 11



NW 50955

&
~—— -CORFIBENTIAL

the areca may take immedi ive measure

"G.. Actions Against Cuban Exiles

“L. Shooting down of pirate planes, possibly of US registry.

"2, Hot pursult of or attack on raiding planes over the high
By

Beaa oF another country's territory.

"3, Hot pursait of o:
of another country's te:

itis noted
originating fro.
aft is Uscay
itas a “p
in feet, :

n
*

DocId: 32425002 Page 12

“4. Atinck on mother ship or exile raiders on the high seas
oz in another country's territorial waters."

nat itis contrary to national policy to permit
U. S. territory, however, at the time

cd to be under Cuban attack it may be diffi.
"raider," "mother ship" or “exile raider," |
ybe the case, All the situations, sect forth

authority. However, the action
only in the case of U. S. ships and air-
erait and thoss not clee ed 23 being of forcign repist ry.

exment which



"5, Attack on staging areas employed by exiles in the
Garibbean"

"E. Actions Against Targets in the US

“i, Sabotage ov terroristic bombings'*

COMMENT: The lL
| the context of tt
| lew enforcemes
| plans to protect
| intensity.

-

vel of intensity of such actions contemplated within
sidered to exceed the capabilities af
ol. There are militasy contingency
: of activity at a much higher level of

"2. Jamming of US ve tationg*

SNE: There are stand
interference and jamming x
cations.

g operating procedures to overcome
de employed against military communi+

The swmrsrics of actions sét forth above are essentially defensive
reactions to Cuban initiatives, There are, of course, existing and related
military plans, retallatory in nature, which Tange up to and include a full
calc military invasion of Cuba.

it was generally agreed at the September 13, 1963 meeting of
mumitice that the most ikely actions of the Cuban government are
wnich would not provoke United States retaliation seriously and
iately endangering the Castro regime, It appeara more likely
that Castro might intensify his support of subversive forcea in Latin

the G

Oe

4

CONFIDENT

NW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 13



eqns

REPORT CONCERNING POSSIBLE RETALIATORY
ACTIONS BY THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT

1. The numbering of the subparagraphs below corresponds
to the numbering of those actions for which specific or

related military contingency plans exist. A brief summary
of the action contemplated by those plans is also provided.

"A, Actions Against U.S. Targets in Cuba

"4. Harassment of Guantanamo

"(a) Cutting off of the water supply"

“essential personnel in 2+ nol ir less if
directed and consistent with national policy.

"(b) Closing access to the base by Cuban workers who
commute"

COMMEN: Provision is made for the introduction

6G)

COMMENT Execution of measures appropriate to the
degree, kind, and exact location of the distury-
Tapoine from no re

"(d) Snipiag at base sentries resulting in injury
or death"

COMMENT Measures may be taken appropriate to the

enert Al DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;
POR iA NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

Enclosure

NW 50955 Doold:32425002 Page 14



circumstance and situation ranging from no action,
through action taken in self defense by a wounded
sentry or those assisting him

6CIXC)

"(e) Sabotaging of base facilities"

ENT Extensive security measures are talk
prevent such sabotage by the Commander U.S.
Naval Base, Guantanamo. The nature of the action
taken would depend upon the nature of the
sabotage and be designed to assure the continued
functioning of the Base.

COMME

"B. Actions Against U.S. Aircraft a shipping

"1. Harassment of U.S. Shipping using Yucatan Channel,
Florida Straits, Windward Passage"

ENT The rules of engagement, which have been
approved by the highest national authority
provide that ships or aircraft ordered to the
area may take immediate protective measures.

COL)

"C. Actions Against Cuban Exiles

"1. Shooting down of pirate planes, possibly of US
registry.

"2, Hot pursuit of or attack on raiding planes over
the high seas or another country's territory. -

pORPIDENNL 2 Enclosure

HW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 15



EORADENEAL

"3. Hot pursuit of or attack on raiding boats on the
high seas or another country's territorial’ waters

"4, Attack on mother ship or exile raiders on the
high seas or in another country's territorial waters

COMMENT It is noted that it is contrary to national
policy to permit raids on Cuba originating from
U.S. territory, however, at the time a ship or
aircraft is discovered to be under Cuban attack
it may be difficult to identify it as a "pirate!
"raider", "mother ship" or "exile raider", even
though this, in fact, may be the case. All the
situations, set forth above, are covered, at
least in part, by the rules of engagement which
have been approved by the highest national
authority. However, the action summarized below
is authorized only in the case of U.S. ships and
aircraft and those not clea: identi f:
being of foreign registry.

MQ

"5. Attack on.staging areas employed by exiles in
the Caribbean

3 Enclosure

NW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 16



peneENTs

"E. Actions Against Targets in the US
"1. Sabotage or terroristic bombings"

COMMENT The level of intensity of such actions ecatemplated
within the context of the paper is not considered
to exceed the capabilities of law enforcement
agencies to control. There are military contingency
Plans to protect against this type of activity
at a much higher level of intensity.

"2. Jamming of US radio stations"

COMMENT There are standing operating procedures to
overcome interference and jamming methods
employed against military communications.

2. "Any additional pertinent information on existing
or related plans" and "recommendations, if any, on other
likely actions which might be taken by the Castro govern-
ment in retaliation for Cuban exile raids" was also
requested. The furnished list of possible retaliatory
actions by the Castro government were of "the level of
intensity which the committee agreed to be in the nost
likely category." It is inferred that what the cormittee
had in mind by the most likely "level of intensity"

into taking extensive countermeasures which might seriously
endanger the Castro regime, The summaries of actions,

set forth above, which might be taken under existing

military contingency plans ate essentially defensive
reactions to Cuban initiatives. There are, however, existing
and related military plans, retaliatory in nature, which
range up to and include a full scale military invasion of
uba.

States retaliation seriously and immediately endangering
the Castro regime, it appears more likely that Castro might
intensify his support of subversive forces in Latin America

CORFE 4 Enclosure

NW 50955 DocId:32425002 Page 17



Pane

than risk direct confrontation with the United States. In

the long run, such action is more dangerous and difficult

to combat, and in the short run is less likely to provoke
immediate and effective United States retaliation. Such
actions would be in keeping with Castro's repeated declara-
tions that Cuba is the main source of guidance inspiration

for the "inevitable" Latin American revolution. Whereas an
inflamed american public opinion over the killing of even a
few sentries might require strong countermeasures, the
training of a greater number of Latin American errillas

than the 1500 or more trained in fiscal year 1962, probably
would not. Nor is it likely that the return of those trainees
to Latin American countries, their establishment of guerrilla
training bases, recruitment of additional personnel, and
engagement in insurgency actions would be as immediately
provocative as interference with the water supply at Guantanamo.
Similarly, closing access to the naval base Cuban workers who
commute would deprive Castro of a source of foreign exchange.
While such items as, "the harassment of air traffic into and out
of Guantanamo," or "the harassment of US aircraft operating in
the vicinity of or overflying Cuba," might be added to the list,
it is considered that specific provocative actions are less
likely and less dangerous than the intensification of support.
to subversive forces in Latin America. Such action not only
is in keeping with the declared communist intention to support
"national liberation movements of Oppressed peoples" but may
be done by means which avoid an invitation to overt US military
countermeasures which would endanger the Castro regime. Thus,
they are considered as of that level of intensity which Places
them in the most likely category as well as being in the
category of most dangerous to the long range interests of the
United States.

COTREIBEREN. 5 Enclosure

MW 50955 DocIa:32425002 Page 18

