# 202-10001-10229

## Page 1

202-10001-10229

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/04/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS

RECORD

NUMBER

: 202-10001-10229

RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: DOC 230

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD

FROM

TO :

TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP MAY 62

DATE : 05/03/62

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Reviewed by CIA,

State,

OSD.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

RECIPES CONCUPRENOE OF

DATE:

MAR

2016

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32421960

Page 1

---

## Page 2

353

3 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on

Project Mongoose, 3 May 1962

PRESENT:

General Iaylor; Mr. Kennedy; Mr. Johnson; Mr. Gilpatric,

General Decker, General Lansdale and General Craig;

Mr. McCone, and Mr. Harvey

The Department of State has no objection to the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Reviewed on

30

4

123198

OSA:

AS

23 VONE

REACTED 48

OBJECTION

General Lansdale gave an Interim report on the progress

of stepping up recruitment of Cubans into the U. S. Army. He said

the consensus is that there are not more than a thousand

suitable

individuals from whom additional recruits could be selected.

The

Attorney General commented that the President wishes to have a large

General Lansdale said that various alternatives for training

of such Cubans are being looked into.

It was agreed that such a cadre of Cubans would be an asset

to the U.S., which might be used in a number of ways. General

Lansdale, supported by General Taylor, pointed out that in this

connection the matter of holding the Individuals and giving them

useful employment after they are trained is an important and a

difficult one.

2.

Mr. Harvey gave a rundown on progress to date with agent

teams and in the general field lf intelligence, including the

Opa-locka inferrogation cente

and the Madrid clandestine interroga-

cion center.

He outlined var

difficulties encountered, and said

chat chree

ant teams have been infiltrated and that five W/T sets

are in place.

Approximately 72 actual or potential reporting sources

are also in place. [A significant development is that Major Duque has

refused to allow agents responsive to him to be dispatched on purely

intelligence-gachering missions. (This sort of attitude had been

forecast earlier as a possibility, but it now assumes particular im-

portance in view of Duque's stature.)

3. ^ Me. Harvey also coumented on che two atrempts made to incrude

The Group asked that a check be made, as

soon as possible, on how effective these operations were. They also

asked that a copy of the scripts used be made available. The Group

felt that it is worthwhile to check this capability out, as is now

being done, but questioned whether once proved effective it should

nOC

perhaps be kept in reserve for a more meaningful time.

Tal on att

Thomas

A. Parrott

$ 230

Ip

cc: General Lansdale

NY 50955

DocId: 32124960, Page -2

(122)

---

