# 202-10001-10219

## Page 1

202-10001-10219

2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/04/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

202-10001-10219

FOIA SERIES

DOC 220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE :

OPERATION MONGOOSE PROGRESS

DATE : 05/31/62

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Reviewed by OSD, CIA, State.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

HEIRES COCURRENOE OF

DATE:

2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 60955 DocId: 32424950

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

133

31: 2y 2y1962

SENSITIVE

¿ Ii:ORAIDUL: FOR 7IIE STECIAL CROUP (AUCH ENILL)

Froin: Erly. Cen. Lanodale Ed

Subject: Operation!'on1006e PrOgIEaS

The Department of state has no objection to the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Reviewed on.

(Intollience build up by CIA incluces eiforts to freruit a

Farana.

The ClA team pieced in Finar cel lio Province lact

warch was pucciscully ve-eurplied oy maritic mcars on

a4iiäy. The Navy and ula lave worked out a cooperative effort

to strengthen the V.S, security and intelligence progran at

Cuantanano.

The CAC continuco to provide word from inside Cuba cover-

inz local cecurity moves and pular unrest (unrest reporiedly

increasing). A subtlantial rcuuction in oil refinin: and renu-

facture of tiros und tuisco lo reported from CAC sources.

Econo nic pressure upon the Communiel resine may be

Increased by a Icparimont of Commerce nove denying buzkerin?

facilitics at U.S. porio to vesselo under Sino-Soviet Hloe charter

carryin; carpu to Cuba. Stale Lepartment reporte havin, bolicited

viewa of our Ambaosador to Japan regarcing possible artIsacies

lo the Japanese auking trem to cease eugar parciasce dron Cuba.

Prora anca cfforte of USLA anc ClA contioue to apply pressure

upon lie Cuian refime ly focusing upon abuses of power and failure

o1 licy propramo such an acdical and Tie Tie VA use dIctucce

lu intervice esprcially underlood lio there. lan losting into i

USIA pro2a8al that we counter Carmunict Culo moves to inrers

latin America by particiation in the abiletic jorth Central American

and Caribbcan Cares set for Murust ll-2i in innoton, Jamaicu: a

"Irce Cula" team migue be ellective, with good publicity support.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANTIZED 23 June 98mkhEXCLUDED FROM CDS

DYCI

6(D(B)

OSO: ABLEASE AS

REDACTEDE3UUNE98

4DR

SPICAL H

AH 50955 DocId: 32424950 Page 2

.:.10

I220

This docu

Cour lin

,ne contain 3-1

306

---

## Page 3

Inclient al Cuintanamo occurred 26 May Wieh a licht Guban

Elcraltlanocé tere, TrIce Cuions hal forceo tie pilot, at

pistol point, to land them at our Naval Fase, i ith Statela con-

curIenCe, licíonsc acici: the Cusan pilot flew hose, tue 3 Cuian

CECapoCE stayed on Lic 10a56.

Tracturin: te Ferime ras been given priority altention by

CIA. A conior care Cilicer has vecn assicned lui-tire 1o lis

specific action, and heo prclerential use di ClA asocts. 1 21

delirato election a e neto a defuna cona ny, con zoni

Eriority Operatione scherele di 211a%, scening so:ne positive

ectlons in verzli di our project curiag lic nest ecreral wecio, dus

brougat a very icaltay response from ClA anE ValA. "be CLA

determination lo meot the chaliengo has suriaceé lou: policy-1520

questions

which I note for you on uchalf of Cls:

(4)

Sa6k 1.

"Voice of Erce Cuba," Is alraust immeciarcly

Icasiale, it the Creup will approve ClA arrancina with

Davy for use of a submarine, ClA hao fira plans for

vorrying te Conmunist regime through broacccals

whlch would appear la cone from iocal

issicent groupe

aclively plannine to harass the rezirre.

2).

TaDkl9, Cha is preparco to disseminate lealleto on castro'o

fallure to the Cuian aspulalion Via Dallooo

lucrearing instability of the Communint Aacuine. Tic

technique is tested and ClA jas plans do operale iron a

curlace chi, in international valers, the Croup io

asked to approve lie ica, including daty support.

Thia

coulu be oporating in lime lo caploir the 26 July anniversary

ol Castro e attaci upon govern ment forces it Santiaco de

Cuba in 1953, for "the revolution' ho nas now betrayce.

3). Taski?, CIA brlievoo it can secrut come 2i-nen teams

¡for poocible use in beeting un resisiance proupa mit.in Cuba.

Crous approval is aged for i clense support in training.

holding, logictico. Ine 'noiso level'lazare lo aniro, bul

this urecial project coule be dinoce unnuticed il linee witi:

•proposed U.S. nilitary entici cent od Guians.

R1, 2;

NW 50955 DocId: 32424950 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Other Tagke.

I note here that Cy doco not feel it nao the operational means

to uncertale Tasieso. as

Voic Icquire

operational facil on wasaue, A accept intele request of

Tasi No. Li áne scrubbing of ios: iño. ll on taig vasio.

The L'epartment uf State scactioa, to my chort to act the U.3.

into priority actions tovards our projoct's qualo, las beon cisappointina

1o ne thua far. Apparently, my ecaecule oi targeta for crecial elforts

is accepted only as it may fit lato lon: -ranzo, existing prograins alrcady

under way. Lí tio is the treory oi our project, lucliere mot ibe project

Len becomes only a spccial Icportias device and not a soccial U.i.

elíort to via tie goal of helping the Cuians recapture their couniry

from a gang of Cormurists.

''Eyes Only" copies to:

1. Ceneral Taylor

2. Mir. Joinson

3. Mir. Cilpairic

t. A.r. dicCone

5. Iit. Kenncey

6.

Ceneral scinite n

7. Chief of Operativna

. $

NH 50955 DooId: 32424950 Page 4

---

