{202-10001-10221] {2022 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 |

Date : 08/04/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10221
RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER DOC 222

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

osD

INSTITUTIONAL PLANNING
03/13/62

16

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS 1B, 1¢
CURRENT STATUS RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Reviewed by OSD, CIA, State.

NOJOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

ON Oe
pare:___MAR 2010

AW 50955 Docld:32424952 Page 1



Ml ‘\ oe
7 : .P eee Va

; TOP SECRET (Sib,
¢ S

SENSITIVE 13 March 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED)

“Y ge b, Ll il ZF
Portion(s) Postponed Under @ (/ CB IC o) see

From: Brig. Gen, Lansdale

Subject: Institutional Planning, Operation Mongoose

As desired by General Taylor on 12 March, the planning for Opera-
Hon Mongoose is now prepared on a format of separate planning for each
Department and Agency involved. Revised planning along this line is
submitted herewith,

concutea rn C/A

already approved are marked with an asterisk. Further
planning must await determination of policy questions raised in my
12 March 1962 memorandum to the members of the Special Group (Aug-

bh

Ex
Z 3g mented),
25 s- an Planning transmitted to you by my memorandum of 10 March 1962
A = a should be returned to me for destruction as a matter of security,
é gz f
Seg
j a: Fd Pig
£5
4 >
HeS2 J
& Red
3s He ase Attachments
88 5s
E23 3 Distribution:
Sang 4
2s & Copy: To:

~ General Taylor

2 - The Attorney General

3° = Secretary Rusk/Deputy Under Secretary Johnson
f+ Secretary MeNamara/Deputy Secretary Cilpatric
5, General Lemnitzer (through General Craig)

6/7 = Mr. MeGone (through Mr. Helms/Mr. Harvey)
8 + Mr, Murrow/Mr. Wilson

9/10- Chief of Operations

G3)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

BEGLASSIFICATION ANDOR : oisaororse__S "7 4s 10¥
RELEASE OF THIS. A : co
Renee est Wed Gh ; RZ awee SS
oo
pores Tegrading: DOD Directive Document contains pages.
CSl. Me ob GF 5200.10 does not apply. Copy No. of 10 Copies. Series A.
2 4 Je NE intone

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET ,

tI2a2Q
Leer

HW 50955 DocId:32424952 Page 2



1-15 March i962

PHASE 1 (CLA)

r@ ACTIVITY . PURPOSE

a

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

i. * Dispatch one inteHigence Collect and report intelligence on anti-
agent operation to key area regime attitudes, on potential resist-
selected by CIA, ance, and on vulnerabilities and

strengths of Gommunist security
| system,
| ~
j
i
wt
fr
!
f 2. 3 third-country intelligence To collect intelligence.
t staff officere in place in
| Havana.
4 3. 2 third-country trained intel- To collect intelligence,

ligence officers, readied to
travel in Cuba for temporary
\ periods.

NL

A AN NE AOA mA ae tenets ee a

* Heme marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962.

CONSIDERATIONS

There ig a risk that this action will disclose this U.S.
intelligence activity within Cuba. Selected personnel
are being intensively trained. This first team has 2
agents. An area in which resistance has been reported
has been selected. Agent operations must stay alive,
make useful contacts, and report securely to CIA.
Phygical risk to personne! is substantial, due to lack
of intelligence. First reports from fitst team are
expected by the end of March, while reporta from the
second and third teams, diapatched in March, are ex-
pected to start in April.

Many of the agents infiltrated into Cuba will be trained |
for paramilitary skills as well as intelligence collection,  {
with the thought that they will be in place inside Cuba t
and ready to act whenever paramilitary operations are f
decided upon. However, CIA has noted that, once the i
agents are inside Cuba, they cannot be controlled |
effectively from outside Guba, although every effort + :
will be made to atternpt such control. ;

i

t

These staff intelligence officers may also be used in the
future for communications or agent handling, if future
developments warrant,

32424952 Page 3

NW 50955 sae



ACTIVITY

4. * Caribbean Admission Center,
Opa-Locka, Florida, fully
activated by 15 March 1962.

5, * Periodic intelligence esti-
mates, aa required by progress
of operations,

=

ER OPERATIONS

6f * Continue negotiating for

| __|hetp in contaminating

locomotive lubricants.

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

7. * Two teams of agents dis-
patched to Cuba,

* Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5

io March L962 (cont)

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence required for the
operations, to identify and earmark in-
telligence assets aa refugees arrive,
and to provide security against Com-
munist agent operations,

To up-date NIE 85-62, so that current
estimates can be considered at national
policy levels,

To cripple Cuba's rail transportation.

16 « 31 March 1962

To collect intelligence. :

TOP SECRET ceargrrive

CONSIDERATIONS

This operation, in response to early recommendation
as essential by the Chief of Operations, is moving at
utmost apeed to become fully active by 15 March, with

a new building completed and occupied, anc with a

staff of 43 at work, Operations commenced 15 February
and, as of 9 March, 33 people were active at the Center.
{CLA responsibility, with support by Defense, Justice,
State, USIA.)}

Ag the operations develop, there will be both increased
intelligence collection and a need for aa current an In~
telligence Estimate as the U.S, can produce meaningfully.
It is likely that a more informal method of producing an
Intelligence Estimate for use at the national level (than
now governing the issuance of NIE's} may have to be
followed. CIA is now publishing daily intelligence aum ~-
maries on Cuba and is planning a bi-monthly or weekly
report summing up intelligence for this purpose. (CLA
responsibility, with support of others as required, }

assistance is required te undertake a successful
sabotage of Cuban locomotives, through contaminating ,
lubricants. It is expected that a minirnum of 3 months

is required before locomotives in Cuba start breaking
down, once the contaminant is introduced.

foo

One team of 4 and one team of agents. Both teama includ,
personnel who have had resistance training and some past
experience.

ch 1962

ad

i

HW 50955 Docla

*
o
a
i]

Sa

nN

2

a

a

N

a

nN

fal



ACTIVITY

Establish 2 additional third~
country resident agents in
Cuba.

'F3i March, have 105 agents
selected and 50 agents trained.

10.* Develop intelligence potential
of Cuban “colonies” in U. 8.

i. * Develop additional interroga~
tion centers in other areas by
31 March 1962,

OTHER OPERATIONS

None.

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence.

To ready agent operations.

“To exploit the intelligence poasi-

bilitiee of former residents of
Cuba (including U.S. citizens) now
in the United States.

To collect intelligence in a Latin
atmosphere, at different levels thar
now seem possible in the continental
U.S., to apot additional intelligence
asaete and to provide security
against Communist agent operations.

* Items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented),

SHA om en Em AEE Eee

CONSIDERATIONS

Possible future use in communications and support:

Effectiveness and numbers are dependent upon purpose
of recruitment, nature of training, and policy decisions
controlling these factors. If the recruitment and train-
ing are for resistance activities, the task of recruit-
ment and training will be much less difficult than if
they are limited to intelligence -collection purposes
only.

There are “colonies in Washington, D.C., and other
U.S. cities which are “little Cubas.‘ Family, Church,
and business interests provoke unusual.personal ties
inside Cuba for some of these residents; a real potential
exists for collection of intelligence not otherwise avail-
able. (FBI support and coordination is basic in thie
effort.)

Ae Opa-Locka becomes fully activated, CLA will
other interrogation centers as promptly as teaoith ss

center is being activated in Spaif.y Negotiations on
local authorities are being underfaken to activate centers,
if possible, in Mexice City, Caracas’ Aruba. San
Juan, Puerto Rico, and Santiags, re being sur-
veyed for possible centers. (CIA r sibility with sup-
port by others as necessary. }

5 March 1962,

Docld:32424952 Page 5

HW 50955



ACTIVITY

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

12.* Two teams of agents dis -
itched to Cuba,

345 third-country agents, tem-
‘arily traveling legally, in
ba.

OTHER OPERATIONS

None,
~~
INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS
on enna ee ne en ec en

i4, * Two teams of agents dis-
patched to Cuba.

IS. One third-country legal
[resident agent in Havana,
OTHER OPERATIONS
None.

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

16. * Two teame of agents dis-
patched te Cuba.

oe
(oss resident agents in

17.
t Cuba.

«

ne ent

PURPOSE

To collect intelligence.

To collect intelligence.

ié - 30 April 1962

To collect intelligence.

To collect intelligence.

i ~ 15 May 1962

Te collect intelligence.

a

To collect intelligence.

CONSIDERATIONS

Number of agents undetermined as yet.

Teams of 2 to 5 agents each. depending on circum
stances,

Possible use for communications and veer’ | :

Teams of 2 to 5 agents each, depending on circum-
stances.

items marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group {Augmented}, § March 1962.

\ectaumnet

HW..50955 Docld:32424952 Page 6



gieabesad
emt

yf 18One or possibly two trained
Z staff intelligence officers
{non-U.S.} resident in
Havana,

~
19. Ten legal travellers in Cuba.

OTHER OPERATIONS
Seema eerie AAC

None,

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS,
reine eet THONS,

20, * Four teams of agentes dis-
patched to Cuba,

21. One possible Singleton agent
operation, Isle of Pines,

( 22./ Four additional resident agents
inside Cuba,
Sy

23. Five "legal travel" agents
inside Cuba,

24, By 3i May, selection of 50
additional agents and train
35 additional agents,

*

Items marked by asterisk were &pproved by Special Group (Augmented),

PURPOSE

Ts collect intelligence, .

a

CONSIDERATIONS
A IONS

To collect intelligence. “Legal travel means persons a

re in Cuba visiting,
some for extended Periods.

16 - 35 May 1962

Te collect intelligence, Teams of 2 to 5 agents each,

stances. CIA will be att
of Cuba as it can,

depending on circum-
empting to cover as much

To collect intelligence. Difficult

To collect intelligence, CIA will be attempting to cover a

asitcan. The main factor of de’
of resident agents is to find a pl.
agent can stay viable,

8 much of Cuba
termining location
ace where a trained

To collect intelligence,

To ready agent operations.

5 March 1962

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

i
|
|
|

i
'
i
i
i

HW 50955 Docld:32424952 Page 7


. CINE hse

ACTIVITY

- OTHER OPERATIONS

25.) By 31 May, develop a plan for
counterfeiting currency, which
would not be implemented until
a decision was made to debase
the economy in Cuba,

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS

26. * 16 to 15 teams of agents dis~
“patched to Cuba,

27. Reinforce and resupply agenta
and teams previously placed or
activated inside Cuba.

28.

agente and train 70 additional
Sgente.

* Collection of psychological
material,

S

* Survey airfielde, military
installations, and communica-
tion centera,

* By the end of July, have
operations to penetrate the
regione.

By Ui July, select 100 additional

Ummerece

PURPOSE

To debase the economy of Cuba.

ifune - 31 July 1962

‘To collect intelligence.

To reinforce and resupply, as
possible.

To ready agent operations.

To provide documentary and photo -
graphic evidence of the tyranny of
the Communist regime.

Te provide current intelligence on
key security resources of the
regime,

To provide current intelligence on the
actions and intentions of the regime.

‘ems marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

pyoe goont)

a eR

CONSIDERATIONS:

A counterfeiting program is being developed. Neede
are to staff the proposal thoroughly to permit a policy
decision to be made and to staff out a feasible distribu-
tion plan. It ia expected that no decision to implement
such a plan would be made immediately, o

—

Number of agents in each team and selection of areas
will be determined by developments of the previous
actions and by conditions, .

Numbers, areas, and supplies are completely dependent
upon conditions at the time, and upon policy approval of
methods to be used (that is, if air delivery can be used,
or if this activity must depend upon maritime delivery}.

This evidence will be used by CIA and USIA to neutralize
the influence of Castro and the Communists in the West-
erm Hemisphere.

This is conceived of as ground surveys, and the possible
recruitment of military and other official personnel as
intelligence agents.

This requires attempts to place trained agents inside
government organizations, or to defect officials “in place."

sete toe ane

pre as ONION apne,

|
|

92424952 Page 8

HW 50955 Docld



OTHER OPERATIONS
atelatoninbtrte viciheah te Rbecketn

None.

F
End of July 1962 i
Sees Mma :

To provide the Special Group (ILC 5412)
augmented) with a hard estimate of the
Cuban situation,

32. * Comprehensive and
definitive intelligence
report on attitudes and
abilities of the popula ~
Hon inside Cuba,

The intelligence estimate will provide a vital basis for
@ Special Group recommendation on whether or not the
U.S. should undertake actions to make maximum use

of Cuban resources as a justification for decisive U.S,
military intervention, :

Lh ONAN Ne

encanto ag Sala madtmeLRSnt eam

“*  Ttema marked by asterisk were approved by Special Group (Augmented), 5 March 1962

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

5 Docld:32424952 Page 9

potenti,



OPERATION MONGOOSE
PHASE Ul (State)

ACTIVITY

i, Make political decision te
intervene with U.S, mili-
tary forces in Cuba.

2,°.U,S, officials and news
releases on policy decision.

3, Latin American leaders,
government and public, in
support,

. ee ee re ee, .

PURPOSE

To overtly engage the U.S. prestige in sup~
port of a Cuban revolt to an extent that would
require the U.S, to become involved in assur~
ing the ultimate victory of a Cuban revolution;
thie involvement must include the commitment
of U,5, military forces as necessary to achieve
auch victory.

Indicate policy and commit prestige of U.S.
government to appropriate support of the
Cuban people vs. Communist dictato rehip.

Commit national prestige and power of Latin
political, intellectual, labor, youth, religious,
military leaders to cause of Cuban people
against Communist regime. For local public
impact, international support, and morale of
resistance within Cuba. :

CONSIDERATIONS

This political decision will require considera ~
tion of the legal and moral factors, assessed
in the perspective of world opinion and u. &
securily interests.

Top officials of Executive and Legislative
branches to make timely statements, This
should encourage similar attitude by leaders
of other nations and help spirit of Cubans.
Development of sympathy leading to favorable
opinion about outside support for Cuban people
is a goal,

Timely and, public statements will be
encouraged aximum publicity at country of
origin, oth countries and into Cuba by

CIA assets, of State action by CLA and i

USIA is involv’

2424952 Page 10

DocId

HW 50955



OPERATION MONGOOSE
"HI (Defense)

ACTIVITY

After political decision,
provide maximum U.S.
support to resistance fight-
ers in Cuba who have been
potted in Phase 1.

@. After political decision,
= commit U.S, military forces
in accordance with contingency
plans. .

PURPOSE

To aseure that Cuban "freedom -fighters"™
are fully equipped to attack the Commun.
ist regime's military and police forces;

as partof the assurance, the U.S. support
must include the immediate commitment
of U.S, leadership personnel in combat
ope rations, :

To intervene as required te achieve victory
for the revolutionary forces.

CONSIDERATIONS

DOD support planning, stock piling, readying o:
equipment and personnel for commitment muat %
be developed with maximum lead time. Close
coordination with CLA is required to insure maxi -
mum readiness to meet the immediate needs of .f
the revolutionary forces. The hazard of visibilily
in preparing for these support activities makes
security a paramount conside ration,

Consistent with security aspect, U.S. mili
forces are placed in a state of readiness to
accomplish the assigned mission. The military

forces must be prepared to assist in the mainte -
nance of order until the revolutionary government
is in control,

| aoaoss Page 11

DocId

HW 50955



OPERATION MONGOOSE
PHASE Il (CLA)
ACTIVITY

1. Support U, 5. military
actions in Cuba,

PURPOSE
To provide intelligence, guerrilla action, and

Cuban political-psycholegical e@upport of U.S,
military ope rations,

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

CONSIDERATIONS
SS S

CIA capabilities muat be continuougly assessed
and considered in the development of military
planning. Executive responsibility for direct-
ing the use of covert asgets mat
understood aa resting in the U.S. military
commander of the U.S, intervention, aa in
agreed-upon wartime operations,

be clearly

32424952 Page 12

DoclIda

HW 50955



OPERATION MONGOOSE
PHASE Ii (USLA}

ACTIVITY

Increase news emphasis
on Cuban revolt and inte r-
vention from the outside

to help the Cuban moye~
ment,

AMARA A I ke

PURPOSE
To neutralize Opposition to U, 5, policy and,

if pos@ible, gain support for U.S. policy in
the Western Hemisphere,

TOP SECRET SENSIFIVE

CONSIDERATIONS
epee ee etchant

Optimum exploitation o:

f news material avail.
able to CIA and Defens:

© if essential.

32424959 Page 13

HW 50955 DoclId



Mi tan ea IU

PHASE 1 {State}

ACTIVITY

Political and econemic
operations to isolate Castro
regime and neutralize ite
influence in the Western
Hemisphere.

March + July 1962
PURPOSE

Activities in consonance with U.S. policy
established after the April 1961 failure in Cuba.

‘CONSIDERATIONS

These activities will have some negative impact
onthe Cuban people, who are part of the target, but
are consistent with an overt policy of isolating Castro
and neutralizing his influence in the Western Hemis-
phere. They are noted here, for the aake of com
pleteness, as actions now being carried out by the
Department of State under other existing programs
and projects, :

sot NO aon a Nee 8 serena ae eae

2424952 Page 14

HW 50955 oecrarh



cicning

sagas

OPERATION MONGOOSE
PHASE I (Defense)

ACKIVITY

Expand special intelligence and
other sensitive intelligence cover-
age of Cuba as required.

Develop the means of the Inter-
American Defense Board te pro-
vide substantive intelligence on

Cuban activities,

a Sem
Provide logistic and personnel
support for CIA intelligence
ope xgtions into Cuba,

The Joint Chiefs of Staff will con-
tinue the planning and essential
preliminary actions to assure a
decisive U.S, military capability
for intervention,

March July 1962
PURPOSE

To develop increaged “hard" intelligence.

To add to the U.S. intelligence rove rage
on Cuba and possibly to strengthen the
concern of Latin American states for
security.

To ensure optimum implernentation of the

intelligence plan,

To overthrow the Communist government
of Cuba,

_ TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

CONSIDERATIONS

Use of cays near Cuba entail unacceptable security
risks when vulnerable to Cuban landing parties.
(Defense, in collaboration with CIA.)

Sensitivity of using this multi-national organiza -
tion clearly restricts potential use by USA. Visi
bility of operational interest ia an acceptable risk
here. :

The intelligence plan requires support by U.S.
military manpower and equipment.

The U.S. military intervention must be conducted
ag quickly as possible and with sufficient force

so that the Communist Bloc's ability to take
effective counter measures is reduced to a
minimum,

32424952 Page 15

HW 50955 DocId



VPERATION MONGOOSE
PHASE i (USIA}

ACTIVITY

Propaganda programs to tsolate
Castro regime and neutralize ite
influence in the Western Hemis-
phere,

March ~ July 1962
PURPOSE
Activities in conéonance with U.S,

policy established after the April
1961 failure in Cuba.

CONSIDERATIONS
Aen tana

These activities will have some general impact
upon Castro support and influence in the Western
Hemisphere. There will be some new materiaj
for use as the Phase I intelligence operations
produce but essentially the program is a continua~
tion of that already in effect.

55 Docld

32424952 Page 16



T-0-P $-E~C-R-E.T

*Toams = 2 te 5 bodies

_ TEAMS* OES —KGES SE as LEGAL AGENTS AGENTS
INFILTRATED _ AGENTS STAFF O'S TRAVELERS SELECTED TRAINED

31 Hay 1962 13 10+5 temp.Leg. 5in/tready
Travira. .
’
31 July 1962 23 to 28 15 a }
‘ 30 Sept. 1962 28 to 33 26 7 ch.
/
30 Nov, 1962 33 te 38 - 20 7
28 Feb. 1963 48 to 53 ‘ 30 a
a
DA 2
Les 3
. i]
a
N
coe arma P
3
T~0..P S-E-C.R-E-T g
NS
coe
a
* i)
o
2
a .
re)
i
a
J
5

