# docid-32334643

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90118-10002

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-75147-12-104

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Posassination Records Colection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64578 Dater 12.14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/15/1956

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE DALLAS

DIVISION

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32334643 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

STAIDARO FUEN NO. GI

Office Men.

V • UNITED STA

"VERNMENT

ragust 10, 1956

PAT. TAVCTTSATTVE INPEIACENCE FTLE.

• 12

There 1e being forwarded heronen to the Duresy

C 1500 On

for pove captioned matter covering a

porod Sion Lobwary 15, 1956, to August 15, 1956, with

coples of thii report being furnished the San Astonio and

Housten enviesong,

/2 - Витови (Snels. 2)

1 & Nonston (Enel. I)

1 - San Antonio (Enol. 1)

1 - Da12a0 694-557

VED/gd

(5)

ALL INFORMATION CONTANEO

(JFK)

30527

5

sNai

1774 5718

8-1X-56

AUG 17.

1956

W

RECORDED-31

INDEXED - 23

62 - 7547-12-104

14400

NW 64578 Docld:32334643 Page 2

---

## Page 3

HEADQUARTERS CITY

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

In the past

six months the following contacts have

been had frequently with the Chief of Police CARI F. HANSSON

of the Dallas Police Department, Captain GEORGE DOUGHTY, Special

Services Bureau of the Dallas Police Department (vice and rackets),

Deputy Chief M.

W. STEVENSON in charge of the criminal investi-

gation division of the Dallas Police Department, PCI H. P. WHITE,

DL 53-C, DL 40-C, DE 33-C, DL T1-C, Du (3-G..

contacts have been had with Sheriff J. E. "BILL" DECKER of the

Dallas County, FOR EST KEENE (NA), University Park Police, Dallas,

District Attorney HENRY WADE, Dallas County District Attorney's

Office, DAN REYNOLDS, Director of the Dallas Crime Commission.

These criminal informants and law enforcement heads all advised

they know of no organized gangs in the city of Dallas or Dallas

County.

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS

In the period of the past six months in contact with

the above mentioned informants and law enforcement officers who

are in a position to evaluate racketeers and mobsters in this

area, all advise that due to strict law enforcement it has

been very difficult for these individuals to operate successfully

in this area.

GEORGE JETTY BASS, FBI NO. 688445, NICKACASCIO, DallaS 75X42

Police Department No. 11976, and HARRY RAYMONDA POPE,

Dallas Police Department No. 23051

which is a suburban village of the city of Dallas.

These individuals continue to beside can a vities

of BASS,

CASCIO, and POPE are observed

frequently by the Dallas

County

Sheriff's Office and Dallas Police Department.

Above

informants and police officers advised although these individuals

are engaged in burglaries, the police have not been able to

obtain sufficient evidence to bring them into court.

15

NW 64578 Docld:32334643 Page 3

---

