# docid-32404087

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10330-10102

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

:

DATE

PAGES

:

DAVID W. CAREY

HONORABLE JOHN RAYMOND TUNHEIM

LETTER: I HAVE JUST RECEIVED INFORMAL WORD OF THE

DECISIONS THE JEK BOARD MADE AT ITS 17 NOVEMBER 1997

MEETING.

11/26/1997

2

SUBJECTS : DECISIONS

JFK ASSASSINATION

CLASSIFICATION : PACER

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/11/03

COMMENTS

JFK-M-15 : F4: 2000.02.07.11:13:49:357035

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65360 Date: 11-17-2022

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10102

NW 65360 Docld:32404087 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NGV, 26.1997

12:51PM

NO. 226

P. 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGION, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

The Honorable John Raymond Tunheim

Chairman

Assassination Records

Review Board

600 E. Street N.W.

Washington, D.C.

Dear Judge Tunheim:

(e) I have just received informal word of the

decisions the JFK Board made at its 17 November 1997

meeting. Most of the Board's decisions--those relating to

he CIA presence in Warrenton, CIA's involvement in various

nor-governmental organizations, and the details of CIA

funding of the Cuban Revolutionary Council--are very

welcome.

I must, however, urge the Board to reconsider its

Eacision to release documents in a form thap would reveal

the Agency's use of|

(ey We stand behind the position that we have

presented in writing and in discussions with the Board on

previous occasions.

I would welcome an opportunity to have

a senior CIA representative meet with the Board at your

convenience to explain why the Agency considers this

information so sensitive and to answer any questions you may

have.

Meanwhile, I offer the following summary of our

fundamental concerns.

185

CL BY:

CL REASON:

DECL ON:

DRV FROM:

2217297

1.5 (c)

X1

COV 2-87.

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32404087 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NOV.26.199?

12:52PM

. "!

NO. 226 cAP: AP:3

"SECRET

TEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

Judge Tunheim

clearly illustrates the purpose behind the Director's

statutory obligation to protect intelligence methods from

unnecessary and inappropriate disclosure.

+8T

18T

continues to be an

important

intelligence method. "Its use is undiminished

since the 1960s, and it wifl remain essential for the

foreseeable future. I urge the Board to reconsider its

recent decision insofar as it concerns the Agency's use of

In this regard, we will-be

forwarding a more comprehensive memorandum addressing the

damage issue prior to the next Board meeting, and we would

also

like to offer the Board the opportunity for a personal

appearance by a senior CIA representative should that be

appropriate.

Sincerely,

David W. Carey

2

NW 65360 Docid:32404087 Page 3

---

