Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

HSCA
180-10060-10453

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

‘992 (44 USC 2107 Note),
vaseft:NW 68261 Date:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261

| Docld:32239461 Page 1


Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

| AGENCY : HSCA
| RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10453

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PARYOLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE

| DATE : 08/29/77
PAGES : 51

| SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

JOHNSON, LILLIAN

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
1 CURRENT STATUS : P
| DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

PRINTED FORM
U
3

OPENING CRITERIA :

5 COMMENTS :
Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 2



MEMORANDUM

} TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

|
| FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel Ni OM _
| - 4

DATE: December 19, 1977 |

RE: Lillian Johnson

This memorandum is to inform you that Lillian

Johnson is on administrative leave from December 9, 1977
until January 9, 1978. She should continue on the pay-
| roll for that period of time plus any additional vacation |

| that she has not yet taken.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,

please contact me.

Leave

ane,

ICM: jl

Nw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 3



MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Re

counting Procedures for Al}
np | of >
equire that, aniong other things, the Conmittee's
certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother~in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother

father.

stepbrother
stepsister
uncle son-in-law hal f-brotk
aunt ~ daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

r

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file. If this status changes, you must not, the Committee's Budget

&A/ 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

LJ 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Kin ELE Bice LEZ
Signature of Employee Date

7
Nw 68261 anaes
Docld:32239461 Page 4



(Please Use Typewriter UU . U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES oe on tng Tarm must be tiled by the
~ authorizing official.)

| -..or.Ballpoint Pen)... i Washington, D.C. 20515

_ . 1
PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: -

Lillian &. Joansen

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). __ Effective Date | \
|
|
|
i

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
Employing Office or Committee 1 Salary Adjustment - ‘ye | |
Assassinations z 0 1 Termination (At closé’of business on elective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary 7 i
| Secretary : $13,009 ; i

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

|
|
|
1. CJ Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or] Professional. . 4
468 |

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [Joint Committee. so

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is not “in violation of 5 US.C 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of i
relatives. p

> All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act-and for Committee em-
o»ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; theGommittee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must®
- Be Perio by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

‘on House Administration

| Office of Finance use only:

_ Office Code.__. . i

7 = a _. ee arena

| NW 68261 an _.
Docld:32239461 Page 5



+ “J

| Sehnson Lilian |

Re ROUTING : FORM yk
m8 f [ Serckwial | ;
oe 4 gr?

Received BAO-090. Nps :

Congressional . :
| - Self Other . '

Referral
Comments on Referral, me f

Logged by

Date
Acknowledged by : | Date | |
7 |
Staff Component : 7 |
Review by | Date . '

Recommended
. Action:

[] File | || Interview Hold j | Refer

REQUEST FOR

RPPOINTMENT

Confirmed Confirmed H
date time byr |
—_— 1

_ - |
. Date |

Hold for Notified |

Wain

; , : Suggested date _
Interviewer futon] Neues suggested time j
C

[ kred as ag Fawn yer Tost |

Suggested date i

Suggested time “|

Confirmed Confirmed
date time by _t

TLoN OF
LCATION | by

| NW 68261

Docld:32239461 Page 6

t
| acceptance/nate of employment
J 1 Rejection .



| : RESUME

e LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

. 7516 Forest. Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
| (301) 772-3341(H)

| (202) 755-6808(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/77 - Present Department of Housing and Urban Development
| 451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

12/76 - 2/77 1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator |

| 9/76 - 11/76 Congressional Budget Office

2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary
-
| 7/76 - 9/76 Stuart Temporaries, Inc. ‘
| . » 1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary : \
8/74 - 9/75 Arent, Fox,.Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
| 18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary
| 11/73 - 8/74 Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W. i
| Secretary
i . |

5/13 - 6/14 Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "C"

|
| Streets, S.E. . Secretary

1/73 - 8/73 Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

3/70 - 3/71 American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

2/68 - 1/70 Harbridge House, Inc.
7 2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

5/67 - 1/68 Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

5/66. - 5/67 Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist

|| Nw 68261 _o
Docld:32239461 Page 7



Education:
1/72 - 7/47
9/63 - 6/64
9/59 - 6/62
Skills:

Personal:

= 68261
| Docld:32239461 Page 8

-2- Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont'd

Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. Secretarial Course

Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "N"
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. ‘Typist 75 - 80

Seeking opportunity for career professional position . |
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasional]

Divorced

i

One daughter age 8 years.



| Nw 68261

Dear Ws. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express
thein sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in
Support of the 1977 Inauguration. -

The Inauguration of the President of the United Staite ‘is a moment in
history that serves as a vehicle to commnicate to the world the comnit-
ment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forunnd this Letter 40 you ab a member of

the Inaugural Security and Credentia£ Committee. You displayed the high-
est degree of pro fessconatism and dedication in many amportant tasks.

You were always wilking and ready to work Long hours, above and beyond
the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything .
asked of you.
Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with
an everchanging List of requirements. Your dedication to duty, under-
standing of the difficultios faced by the Tnaugurak pea and -

. Your over-

. cooperative attitude are indicative of a te pro fessio

al manner of performance wad truly outstanding.

T§ we had the powr today, each of you would receive a tangible medal
of citation for the highest avard 0f Volunteer Aetion. Possessing only
words, we say again, thank you for all the service given s0 unselfishly.

Sincerely,
“3 7

. Frank Wison, Director

Si ity & entials Comittee
LYLE rofl —

aor ae eee ~ "ponakd ck, Doputy Chieg _
ae . In Charge of Internal Security

| Docld:32239461 Page 9



. LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served fith distinction on behalf of the

Armed Horees of the United States.
at the Gnanguration of

Sinmy Carter

on ihe ifventieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seponty-seben
in + Bashington, Bistric uf Columbin “

‘Bardyl a Tirnwa Bis Gee Robert G. Perks -
C.-Chairpersont 2 Major Grnural USA
1977 Sreyeel Con anttlee 22 Charman .

{7
Nw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 10


THE WHITE HOUSE a. \
i . WASHINGTON : \

February 3, 1977 }

To Lillian Johnson i

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and
untiring work on the 1977 inauguration. |
The inaugural program was a great suc- |
. cess, open to all of our citizens. This |
. would not have been possible without the |
unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long |

: hours freely given by volunteers such yoo

- as you. . \

You have helped to set an example of what ;
we Americans can accomplish by sharing

our talents and energies with each other.

Many thanks. . Coane

|
1
|
|
|
|
|
|
i
|

Sincerely,

Miss Lillian Johnson .
fc . 7516 Forest Road .
~ Landover, Maryland 20875

4 = _ oo eer

| NW 68261 ee
Docld:32239461 Page 11



| Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
| great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

= Song CLL.

Nw 68261 a
| Docld:32239461 Page 12



Life Experience: Inauguration of President and Vice President
of the United States, 1977 Presidential
Inaugural Committee, Washington, D.C.

Competency Statement Position Descriptors

As Site Coordinator &
Administrative Assistant

of the Inaugural Committee's
Security & Credential division,
| I have: : .

A. Acquired knowledge as to how
legislative priorities are set

B.. Held high level administrative
responsibility in operating the
office

* C. Supervised productivity, flow of
work and overall operations of
our office with top United States
Secret Service officials and
congressional members.

D. Through the concept of creative
office leadership I have assisted
in planning, organizing and con-
trolling the operations of presi-
dential security

E. Utilize techniques to help main-
- tain good employee relations

. : through effective supervision,

delegation, evaluating, training,

| a and thorough communications with

usss.

F. Arranged-and made contacts with
' top USSS agents, presidential
advance team, and congressional
members for indepth security
conferences.

|| Nw 68261 a _. _
Docld:32239461 Page 13 :



| Go
| on € AMENDMENT TO 3 ome
PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS STATEMENT ‘APPROVED 50-ROO48

TMPORTANT: Read these instructions carefully before completing this form.

“This form may be used to update your Personal Qualifications Statement provided you have had no more than three additional positions since the surement being
TIaAted eas fom plemés Agencies are required to accept a previously completed Personal Qualifications Stacement as current when chit form is attached. Before
cenpleting this form, review carefully your answers @ all items on the statement being updated. Use typewriter if available, Ocherwise write or Print legibly in
dark ink.

Z DATE OF THIS STATEMENT 3. BIRTH DATE (mowib, day, peer)

May 17, 1977 December 6, 1943

S. REASON FOR SUBMISSION (Check Owe)

1. NAME (Last) (First) ( Middle} (Maiden, if any) O) me. [] miss () Mes.
BND ADDRESS (Number, Stract, City, State, and ZIP Code)

(1D To update Personal Qualifications Stotement in my Official Pertenal Folder
1 To updote Persona! Quelifications Stotement on fle with you
SEicTe update attached Penional Qualifeations Stotement

DAs requested

[KIND OF POSITION YOU ARE FILING FOR (Or title and number of axnouncement)
Security Assistant 15-21 (77)A
“S. LOWEST PAY OR GRADE YOU WILL ACCEPT
Pay GRADE
E pee }) « Cr

To BPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back, Account Jor period: of unemploymant in stparate blocks in order)
May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? C}Y¥es (] No (A "Ne" will net affect your

D ‘consideration for employment opportunities.)

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (momth, year) ‘EXACT TITLE OF POSITION FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVIUAN OR |
tron May 9, 1977 to mesent nme Clerk-typist MMUTARY GRADE 5 |
SALARY Of EARNINGS, [AVG HRS.| PLACE OF EMMOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION }

| grange 3 179+ vexweek [PEERY cry, ‘ 7 AMLOYEES SUPERVISED (manafacrarng, accounting, insur

Fal 3 rer 40 star. = DC 0 Housing & Urban Deve.
NAME OF UMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD)

arles Field Washington, D.C. 20410

‘AREA CODE ANO PHONE NO. IF KNOWN
TEASON FOR WANTING TOLEAVE Seeking” position involving more responsibility and opportunity
DESCRIPTION OF DUNES, RESPONSIDAMES, AND ACCOMMISHMENTS Prepare in final form a variety of materials
including correspondence, staff studies, technical memoranda and issue
which include the use of terminology that is highly specialized. Responsible for
maintenance of subject matter files for the staff. (Even though this job déscription
does not indicate), I have taken dictation and transcribed it for: the Special
Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Development. Pefform all
secretarial duties. Es os

mae

FOR AGENCY USE (shill exdes, ett.)
~

1 FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVAIAN
(OR MILITARY GRADE

DATES OF EMMLOYMENT (sonth, yoer) ‘XACT TME OF POSTION
from ro

‘SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS.| PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS O8 ORGANIZATION
ereais! me PER WEEK| Gry, EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting,
| Fasurazce, ec.)
ANAL s vex STATE:

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR Tame OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, eit,) AND ADORESS (decluding ZIP Code, if known)

‘AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN ‘

‘DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSD@ILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

FOR AGENCY USE (shill codes, ats.)

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ‘Standard Form 172, January 1972
US. Civil Service Commission
= __472-102

| NW 68261 a:
Docld:32239461 Page 14



FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVHIAN

ACT TITLE OF POSTION
OR MILITARY GRADE

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT. (month, year)
ROM. To

SALARY OR EARNINGS, "VG. HRS] PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
aa PER WEEK EAPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accounting, tmsur-
STATING $ ven om: Claas e
NAL $ ren
NAME OF WMAEOUATE SUPERVISOR Wand OF EMPLOVER (firm, organization, ei.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
"AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN, 4

REASON FOR LEAVING
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBAITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

[ron AGENCY USE (shill codes, ete.)

@. Space for explaining other changes of additions ro the qualifications searement being updated. If axy answer co an item on the qualifications statement being
Sretnced is icorrest or incomplete as of the date of this amendment, identify the item by numbet and ‘explain. (Check one) [} Other changes or sddicions

listed below [-] No other changes or additions.

the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, position (or title and number

trem | Lf more space is required, use full sheets of proximate
a gualiheat ent being updated. Artach all sheets to this form.

nO. | tometer filing for, and date of the qualificanions scaterber

CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sign im inh) Cee 2 oe
1 CERTIY thot the statements ime on this form updote my Pertanal Qualiticn (A

Hot Statement completed S44 ‘month, esr) ond ore true, complete, ond —o- Z

correct to the best of my kealedge ond belie, ond ore mode in good foxy FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW.

. :

Geo: 172 0- 452-449

tw 68261 a

Docld:32239461 Page 15

mae



Nw 68261

“DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOC
FOR USE OF EXAMINING GFFICE ONL

, Rgeerial ~~ [Enrcd Regie
CD Appr. (C1 subenizeea

TA. Kind of position (job) you ase Bling for (or title of B. Announcement No."
emunens nministrative Asst.
© Cpnons for which you wish to be considered (if listed in announcement)
Legislative Aide
D. Pricnsty place(s) you wish to be employed
Washington, D. Ce , Metropolitan area
2. Home phone (including Arve Code) |. Office phone (including ‘Area Cade)
772-3341 (301) " 715-5860
“4 Name (Last) (Firt) (Middle) [aiden fey) 2 Me, BX] Biss o Mo
and Address (Number, Street, Cis, State and
JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens
7516 For : ”
RK

3. Legal oc voring residence (Stair)

District of Columbia

6. Height without shoes 7. Weight
5__Feet JT fie_taches 135 lbs

‘& Birthplace (City and State, or forvign coun)
District of Columbia

9. Birth date (Month, ay, yaar)

THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTING OFFICE
Preference has been verified through proof that the 3
under honorable conditions, and other proof aa required!

Csr. (10m. comp Diam (J 10Pe |

11. Ifyou have ever been employed by the Federal Goverment a3 a Gvilian, give your
lasz classification series, grade, and job title.

GS-318-5 Clerk-typist

Dates of service in that grade
From To A
May 9, 1977 Present time

12, Ifyou are catady on «Ti of eligibles for appoinmoect to a Felenl positon, Bre
the came of the announcement, the name of the ofice rosintaining the list, che data
Sh you nober of map. sod your mange
Stenographer and Typist
United States Civil Service Comission
Federal Register .
April 25, 1977 — Typist 4 — Steno 5

“4 . When wil you be

13. Lowest pay or grade you will scarpe

\
17, Will you sczept less chan full

(Accptence or rifnetef  —1 month of tess?
temporary enpleyment wild
ret afer pre rartdrraties
| for other appeinemens.)

—Only in (aif): Metro area
19. VETERAN PREFERENCE. Arerwer all part. If a part does not apply to you, answer “No.”

A. Have you ever served on active duty in che United States military service? (Exclude tart of active duty for training 3  rnervist or Guardiman.}

B, Have you dischar, amed ditions che aed
to holondlebys Dichargs Berke Bead ovsialas tbody). eorenerietneete tne
If "Ys," give dasails im Item 37,

C Do you claim 5-point preference based on active duty in the armed forces?..
Uf "Ves," you will be evquired to furnish records to support your claim at the tine you ort appointed,

D. Do you daim 10-point preference?

Uf "Ye," chech pe of preference claimed and comp! 7 10-peint Veteran Preference,
in that form Tyre: [[] Compensable dsabitiey Disability -  ([] Wife
E List Dates, Branch, and Serial or Service Namber of All Active Service (Ester “N/A” if abt applicable) ;
From To Branch of Service ‘Serial of Service Nui
N/A . . '
‘THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER Standard Form 171
Pore May. 1975 U.S. Civil Service C
om _.. 11-105 .

Docld:32239461 Page 16



May inquiry be made of your preseat employer regarding your character, quali6cations, and record of employment? ... a Yes Ne
CATNa” will not affect your consideration for-enplayment oppertuxitias expt for HEARING EXAMINER petitions.) g Oo

+ [ Dates of employment (month, jor)

Enact tide of positions ur ity—Cred1s.| H Fedaul sevice, criliaa or miliary

. From 12. ‘30/76 ‘To PRESENT TIME Si tor /Secr:
Salary oF earnings ‘Avg. bra. [Place of employment [Number and kind of employees| Kind of business or organizanoa
Sasing $150.00 P* wi per week | Gry: il several-]0f/ meri/actering. acerating, tserena,
' present $ SAME pe 50 Sate: D.C. volunteers {977 Inaugural Comte

‘Name of employer (jirm, organization, ete.) and address ( inclediag ZIP Code, if known)
1977 Inaugural Committee, 2nd & "D" Streets, Ss.

‘Ares Code and phooe No. ¥isowa 202/472-4350 Washington, D.C. 20024
Reason for wanting 0 lexve + . 3
ssi ot Se respoesibilies end eoeepalitioeas several sub-committees within the
srocedure and preparation of security clearance forms. |
security pick-up. Commmication by phone! \
aA very large sca e, White House and many other agencies for | \
nauguration, Worked with the director preparing and designing security credentials!
at-in on meeting’ Security & Press Personnel, took dictation and kept minutes. i
it Visi e Ty etter, memorandums, etc.
For agency use (shill coder, ose.)

on work on_ After Act er ryed_as_centra.
int of information concerning office.
5 ‘Dates of employment (menth, yaar) ‘Exact title of position Af Federal service, civilian or military!
From 9/76 To T1776 secretary/Personmnel Asst. |
‘Salary or carnings [Avg. hrs. | Place of employment Number and kind of employees | Kiod of business or organizscia |
sariag $10,096, yr. per week [iy Washington |spevied (nasefateing accounting, imserenct,
ete,
Fal g Same per 40 {sare D.C. none Federal
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (/irm, ergawization, ete.) ead sddress ( including ZIP Code, if tuoum)
Carl McCarden/Alicia McPhee Congressional Budget Office
‘Area Code and phore No. if known 202/225-6666 a 2nd & "D" Streets, S.W.
Rracaforlaving Temporary position \

Description of duties, responsibilities, and scomplishmens - Secretary in Budget Analysis Division, Human Resourc
and Personnel Office. “Worked with several Analyst. Typed up proposals, budget
xeports, general correspondence and telephone cammmicatians. Operated the

dec Computer in all divisions.

For agency use (shill code, 6.)
4
|

Dates of employment (ant, jeer) [Exact tide of positon If Federal service, civilian oF miliary
| ade

wy

Prom = 7/76 To 9/76 Secretary/Legal Asst.
Avg. brs, | Place of employment ‘Number and kind of employees | Kind of business or organization |
pet week | Gry: i supervised Pieces accounting, inraranc,

et,

For agency use (shill codes,

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS
Pope 2 SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

Nw 68261 ane _ .
Docld:32239461 Page 17



oa aad work baci. stecunt or periods of wap iyacnl em uparate blocks tm order.)

ter, Guslifiati

as excipt for HLA

recent employer repa: ting your
CANO" wall wet jet your cosnacrssion for erpisjiath (pe

ot ?.
siiigiome cc ve Be
Dates of employment (ast, pear) 9775 Exact tide ef position If Federal service, civilian or mizury
ba Fro 8/74 ‘To PRESENT TIME Legal Secretary 2

Salary of earmuags ‘Avg bia, [Place of employment [Nuraber and kind of employees] Kied of busiacss or orgapizauca
Samisg9#19 509 yr. preek IG yashington| 7 (nerafatring aconntng imrmvancs,
Preem $ same per 37-k |Sare: §=D.C. 0 Law Firm

Name of iramediate supervises ‘Name of employes (firm, organization, ax.) and address (including ZIP Code, if koown)
JoAnna McAtee Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn

‘Area Code and phone No. if known 1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason for wanting m lee laid off S

Descriz tion of duties, responsibilites, and sccompiishmens Legal Secretary to Several attorneys in the firm,
in areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-took
dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed brieis,
proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.

- —

ee ee ed

For agency use (ihill ode, =) 1] 72— _
(THE NEXT THREE JOBS LISTED BELOW WERE COURSE RELATED WHI ITTENDING STRAYER COLLECE) ji
Dates of employment (msaib, ear) ‘Exact title of position * If Federal service, civilian or milasy |

5 | rom 11/73 To 8/74 Secretary onde =]
Salary of earnings (Avg. brs. [Place of employment [Number and kind of employees
Sarios$ 4.50 © hr, Per week ICity: Washington |*

Find $ pet 20 fsese: D.C. 0 Secretarial Service
Nawe of immediate supervisor Name of eraployer (frm, organization, exc.) and address (éncluding ZIP Code, if baaum)
Clara, Bob Temporaries, Inc., 1015 ~18th Street, N.W.

Kind of busioes or organisatca
manafaccwing sccuwnting, insursn, if

i

‘Ares Code and phooe No. # known | Washington, D.C. |
Renonforlavirg temporary job 2 H \

1

!

j

}

Deucr paca of dais, nite, acd accompishmensy Gained experienced in working with many law firms
jin the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term
assignments.

: Por agency use (shill odes, x: )
é 1 Dates of employment (maesb, year) [Exact titte of position If Pederal service, civilian oF mine
ence

From 4/73 To 6/73 Transcriber

|
Salary or earnings Tog. bas [Fae of employmcat | Narberand Hind ofemployas| Kind of basloca or organizanon |
Saning$ 3.50 Pt hr, per week | City: Washington | =Periaed (mazefastering, aceontiny, inturasa, |
|

|

|

|

per 20 |sere: D.C. Oo. porting Agency
saediate ssjerviser T Name of emplozes (Amy, ezswization, o&) and address (“arlading ZIP Cos, if Emeun}
Doris Hoover Hoover Reporting Agency
No. if known 3rd & Mass. Ave., N.E., Washi nt on, D.C.
Reason forleaving COUrSe related — for experience mostly.
Docriion of duces responses aod scoomplshmens “Transcriber of reporters notes from courtroom | i

'

[eee men) |
—

FORM Milena G8 wen

| NW 68261 ae, _
Docld:32239461 Page 18



iry be mace of yzur present empleyer resanding your character, quslifcaticna, and record of eropleyment?.. ... ¥
| Ne" wail wet ofact your cemsscerstien jor empcuyuect eppartunstias exept for HEARING EXAMINER positions.) Dre [jn
| [Dates of emnployorent (eaetb, or) 7/74, Exact tide of position If Federal service, civiliaa or milzary
. 5 as
| From_9/73. Ko PRESENT TINE Student reporter A
Salary of earmags Avg. bn. [Tiaee of employment jNumabe: and kind of employes Kind of business or organisadin
Sanings per pe week 1G: Washington |*Perried (marsfaciring scrownting, insarascr,
Prescot 8 Pe 15 |seare; D.C. | iy ‘Reporting Agency
‘Name of immediate supervisor ‘Nawoe of employer (frm, ergedization, ec.) and address (including ZIP Cock, if hasum)
Bernie Richards BGH Reporting Agency
‘Area Code and phone No. if known 24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.
Ressoo for wanting ewe Course related - for experience only. .

Desaiption of duties, responsibilices, and accomplishments
Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom
rocedures. Transcribed notes. °

For agency use (still anda, ete.) H

Dates of employment (mesth, ear) Exact ttle of position If Federal service, Gvilian or miliay |
From 5/13/74 To 6/14/74 [Legal Secretary grade \
Selry of earnings ‘Avg. bra. [Place of employment [Number and kind ofemployees [Kind of business or organizasoa |
Saning$ 4 50 P= ohy, po week Ici: chington, |" (panefacring sccranting, inszrsea, |
Fal? same per 7-35 | Scare: D.C. - ) Congressional Of fice |
‘Name of immedizte supervisor ‘Name of employes (frm, organization, exc.) and address (including ZIP Cade, if tieum) H
Marilyn Shapiro Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman |
‘Ares Code and phone No. if known Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E. |

Reno forlavng Temporary position ? 1

| , Desciption of duties responzbilides, and ascompi:kmens Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres.

Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones,

took dictation and transcribed. i
|
j

For agency vse (still codes, 6.)

_ | Dates of employment (month, year) ‘Exact tide of position If Pederal service, civilian o: military
| 4 From 3/70 To 3/71 Secretary onde
Salary or earcings Fog bn | Fast engisymeat [Numba and tind ofexaplopess| Kind of Daslocm or orpaoltaica
Sariss# 61500 yr. per week or'washington, supervised (mans facturing, accornting, inturanar,
: Fal $7,000 per 373s D.C. 0 “Educational Asso.
[ Name of irameciate supervisor Narse of employer (firm, organization, ri) and address (including 2:P Cock, if Bum)
Dr. John Mallan American Association of Junior Colleges
‘Area Code and phone No. if known One Dupont Circle, N.W., ase tneeony D.C.
| Ravica fer leaving Moved to N.Y.C. al
Decripcion of duten responsible, end ucompinhmes Secretary to Director of Veteran Programs, kept
eco a Q avel_and conferences, handled phones, typed general

Page 2

1]
Nw 68261 oa —
Docld:32239461 Page 19

ae



| eee eee eee ee eee _—
Vay inquisy be made cf your present employet regarding your characer, qualifications, and record of employment... ..---eceeeeereees es m
TAR wall nat ost pour coanaeration for EMpoap ack fOr ames Wp for HEARING EXAMINER pesiticns.) Or On \
|” Yieees of empteyeccar feaert, ar) 1/70 Exact tide of position if Federal service, civilian of musy
[From 2/68 ‘To PRESENT TIME Secretary oe
Gleq oF cumiags Fag Fa [Fiace of ersployment—|Nurnbet and kind of emplojea] Kind ef Business ot oracricstcn
Searing $ 6 000 pr oyr. per week |City: Washington, superrised aac ecxewating, insurance,
: ae.
Present 8 ber 37% sure: D.C. 2 lanagement Consultant

Nase of employer (frm, ergauizaticn, at.) and address (including ZIP Code, if haoum)
Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Name of immediate supervisoe
Layle Luckett

‘Area Cade aad phase No. if known
Reson (or wanting o kare Due to illness, Hepatitis

Dacipioe of datea raponibilues ardacconpliimens Secretary to four management Consultants, wrote
letters of general correspondence, kept tTecords, arranged for conferences and

travel, typed gov't. proposals, traveled occasionally. |

‘Dates of employment (saath, year)

From 5/67 To 1/68 Secretary

" agency use (shill codes, otc)
Exact ttle of position If Federal service, Gvilian or militaxy
: gade

Sabry or earnings ‘Avg. bis. [Place of employment |Number and kind of employees | Kind of business or organizstion
Sarin $ 3599 yr pe week |Gtr: Washington {™P™ (nenafacrin eccownting, insara2,
. ete
Fall $ per 37-%y |sare: D.C. 2 Employment Agenc

cdg TIP Cote, if

Name of imedite supervsor Name of eraployes (frm, ergaaizateen, e<,) and adacess (i ;
Joyce Sarsfield Tabulating Research and Development Agency |
‘Ace Cod: anc pacne 9. baw 14th & "K" Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C.

: [Reco foriaring Company went bankrupt < S 7 ‘
| [BDascipses of do's. Tesporsibilities, and sjcomplishmeas Secretary to two Job counselors. Typed up — \
| resumes for system analyst and programmers, filed records, typed general Sorerrrens| \
| \
r u For agency use (shill codes, etc.) |
| Dates of eraployment (maatb, juar) [Exact tide of posison if Federal service, civilian or miliary |
| From 4/66 To 5/67 Clerk-typist grede |
| 2g TAvg. hes. | Fiace of erzioy ment Ne kin? of empioyecs | Xind of business or orgtiais |

4200 Pe yr. pet week | City: Washington: supervised Coamsfacterin, eventing imsaraaa,
per 40 Seate: D.C. 0 University
diate mupeae ‘Nae of employes (Sem, orgontzstion, ete) and address (tnclztizg ZIP Code, if Poeun)
Nadine Flack Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Sts., N.W. |
| Area Code xn6 phone No. if koown Washington, D.C. {
[Rais fi tovie resigned for higher paying pos! ne :
Decnpace o dunes respoaubute, and emompuamene typed Le ‘5 of general correspondence and “| f
a

d_studen

For agency use (shill endes, 6.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITION SL Ex peprence nunree ree er sf 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS *

Sle ievoass

| Page 2

| NW 68261 nn
Docid:32239461 Page 20


° ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY AND FULLY

21 A. Special qualiScacons aod shila (shill with Rachines; patents or inventions your mts important publications (de wet ixbait copier Onleas reqrected); yur pablic
 aabing aad publications experienc membership ia prafessional or scsentifc socsetses; a8.)

Operate Vydec Computer . .
Most IBM typewriters, Selectric I, Standard Electric, Executive, etc.
" Operate Court Reporters model—Stenotype machine far dictation
Operate the stenorette, IBM Dictaphones & others
10 key adding & calculator machines

1B Kind of License o Ceribcam (For exemple,
regisred aris, Lawyer, radia sperazer, CP.

‘CName and location (city, Stats, aad ZIP Code if beewn) of college
or university. (If you extet @ graduate within 9 soaths, gw
see

Years Compleeed _[ No. ofeetis comet | Type | year of

—. =

13th & "G" strests, NW. studdnt |

D. Chief undergraduate college subjects

F, Major Geld of srody at highest level of college work
Court & Conference Reporting

G. Osher schools or waining (for example, trad, rcational, armel forex, busin). Give for cach the name and locaton (city, State, aad 21P Code if bnoon) of |
on

}

|

|

i]

school, dsces scrended, subjects studied, oumber of classroom bours of instruction per week, certificates, and any other pertinent

Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y., Avenue, N.W. 1964
Secretarial Course, typing, speedwriting, clerical

23. HONORS AWARDS, AND FELLOWSHIPS 24, TANGUAGES. OTHER mh ENGLISH
1977 Inaugural Committee
Certificate of Appreciation
White House letter

Jury Duty Certificate

25.. REFERENCES. List three persoas who re NOT related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and frness for i which
you are applying. Do aot repeat sames of supervisors [seed under Ieem 20, ‘renner 7 Ci edad

PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS
(Nussber, Street, City, State and ZIP Code} BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION;

New Samaritan Baptist Church
6th & Maryland Avene, 2, Ne E.
Manpower Office

6th & Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.

National Cénter on Black Aged

| Nw 68261 oe 7
Docld:32239461 Page 21



7 ANSWER ITEMS 26 THROUGH 36 BY PLACING AN "X” IN THE PROPER COLUMN

26, Are you a citizen of the United Seates?......
AU". give country of which you are a Geen:

Before answering these question: read lem: 27 end 28 in the estached instractions.
‘Are you sow a member of che Communist Parry, U.S.A., or any subdivision of the Comeauaist Party, U-S.A.?....

(3) Are you now, of within the Last cen years have you been, # member of any organization, or group of persons including bux nor limiced
wo the Communist Parry. U.S.A., or any subdivision of che Communist Parry. U.S.A. which during the period of your membership you kaew
was advocating or teaching that the government of the Unised States or any political subdivision thereof should be overthrown or overrumned by

force, violence, or any unlawful means?

|. (b) If your answer wo (a) is in che affirmative, did you. during the period of such membership, have the specific inrent m further the aims of
such organization or group of persoas wo overthrow or overmira the government of the United Sam or any sate or any political subdivision
thereof by force, violence, or any unlawful means?

. Within che last ive years have you been Ged {rom
|. Within the last five years have you quit a job after being .
If your wnincer 0 30 Wh 31 aboce id "Yes" gioe details in lem 37. Show the mame and addrest (incie ding ZIP Code) of expleyer, approximate dam, and

reaians in each case. This information thould agree with your axsuart in liem 20, EXPERIENCE.

. Have you ever been convicted of an offense against the law or forfeited collateral, of are you now under charges for any offense against the law?
(You may omit: (1) trafic violations for which you paid a fine of $30.00 or less; and (2) any offense committed before your 213t birthday which
‘was finally adjudicated in a juvenile court or under a Youth Offender law.) 5

|. While in the military service were you ever convicted by general court-martial?

Uf your aster to 32 0&3 is “Yes,” girs details in Item 37. Sbew for tach offense: (1) date; (2) e

|. Does the Uniced Sates Government employ ia a civilian capacity or as 3 member of the Armed Forces any relative of yous (by blood or marriage)?
(See fterms 34 and 35 ‘n the attached instruction sheet.) 5 a os :
|. Do you live with, or within che past 12 months have f i
Uf your answer to 3418" Yes,” give ow Stem 37 for such rel. ); (4) depan-
ment, agency, of branch of the Armed Forces. If your anruss to 35 is Yes,” alse give the kind of appointment bild by tke relatisa(s) you tive wath or bare
leved wath within the past 12 mantht.

Bo you teceive of do you bave > peadiog application (or rexrement oF feuuner pay, peaion, of other compensation based upon miliary, Federal
qvilian, or District of Columbia Government service? o seen ee aoe
Af your answer is Yer," gore details im Item 37.

Your Statement canmat be procassed xatil you bave answered all questions including Items 26 through 36 aber. Be sare you bave placed an "X™ ta the eft of EVERY
marker (<q) above, cither tm the Yes" of the No" column.

37. Space for detailed answers. lodicate Item number to which answers apply.

t

Uf more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately che same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, birth dat pre mncemes
politina Cele. Attach al thee to this Stateduene at’due top of Page 3 me Page. m fe and ox vr

ATTENTION — THIS STATEMENT MUST BE SIGNED
Road tho following paragraph carofully before signing thir Ratement 4

A telco onswar to any quostion In this Statement may bo grounds for not omploying you, or for dlumlsing you after you begin |
work, end may be punishable by fino or Imprisonmant (U.S. Code, Tilo 18, fee. 1001). All stotomants are st:Sject to Investigation, |
Induding © chack of your fingerprints, police records, and formar omatoyors. All the Information you cIvo will bo considsrod In

raviewktg your Statomant ond Is subjac? to Invostigation. A folso answor fo Items 27 er 28 could doprive you of your right to on |
annuity ren you reach rotirament o3@ In addition te the penalles decerised above. :

CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sige in tah) DATE SIGNED 1

I CERTIFY that all af the statements made in this Statement 1A : hn
ew Ee Eno. —| May 17, 1977
,

are true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief, and ace made in good faith. 7

Nw 68261 a -

Docl

2239461 Page 22



~ UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

NOTICE OF RATING

2 ; APPLICANT MUST FILL IN ALL BLANKS IN THIS SECTION ONLY
TPLACE OF EXAMINATION DATE OF TEST

TITLE OF EXAMINATION.

Stenographer and Typist Washington, D.C. April 25, 1977

NAME AND ADORESS (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)

This is not @ notice of appointment.
It ls @ record of your rating. It is im-
portent that you keep It.
|
PERIOD OF CONSIDERATION
FROM ISSUE DATE _
DJ smontes) +) [12 MontHs

(3 years

SEE REVERSE SIDE

Lillian B. Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

You are ELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

« ae cen | CLERK-DICTATING ] ore eee wuneur FOR CIVIL SERVICE
LERK—TYPIST > MACHINE IG RAS IMERICAL
STENOGRAPHER | TRANSCRIBER (TRAINEE) RATING IS COMMISSION USE ONLY.
= TEST SCORES

DO Gs-2 Oo SG o GS-3

a,s3 O44 O cs2 82.0 (GENERAL TEST

Woes GS-5 Ocss (CLERICAL PLUS VERBAL)
AMOUNT OF VETEPAN PREFERENCE INCLUDED IN YOUR RATING: sets (J sorts [) aoe

You are INELIGIBLE for the following grade(s): TYPING

cLenx-rvP atcant CLERKDICTATING | CLERK.
ERK-TYPIST MACHINE
stenoonarnen| r—iActiNien | STieaiee) 64/6
re era fe gs3 Osss Desa DICTATION
OB as4 O css Ocs« 1

REASON FOR INELIGIBILITY:

You did not earn a passing score for the grade(s), checked ineligible, therefore no numer-
ical. rating is assigned for them. :

You did not pass the typing performance test.

You did not pass the stenography performance test.

Your lowest acceptable salary is higher than that of the position in which you qualify.
‘Your qualifications statement does not show that you meet the minimum experience

or education required for the grade(s) checked ineligible. .
You failed to reply to official correspondence.

119
6

nH
CLERICAL
Vg
VERBAL
Vv

SEE OTHER SIDE FOR
-F EXPLANATION OF SCORES.

You passed the general tests. If you recompete, you need retake only the typing part (and orctating part if you
apply for stenographer) of the test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifica-ions Statement,
Standard Form 171. 7 ~

You failed the stenography test only. If you recompete, you need retake only that test. You must also present
this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, S.F. 171. Wire ee te
You may not enter on duty until completion of required education is shown.

Your qualifications statement is attached in case you wish to apply for a different position.

Oo
Qo
O
O
oO
Oo

THE ITEMS CHECKED BELOW APPLY TO YOU: a oho

DATE OF ISSUE WSUING OFFICE Do ited States Civil Service Commission

April 25, 1977 999 1900 E Street, N.W.
. Washington, D.C. 20415

BE SURE TO READ THE IMPORTANT MESSAGES ON THE BACK OF THIS FORM .
Part 1 5 oo esc FORM 4008-¢

OCTOBER 1973

a}

| Nw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 23

ey


. ‘Superior Court
of the istrict of Columbia

Gertificute of Appreriation

LILLIAN B. JOHNSON . : having soxsed eth distinction as a fevox tn dhe Saporion

Count of the Bistnict f Columbia dusing he month of —_ ANY 4 ue
ts presented thés cextyfioals of appreciation por agnificant communtly sexutoe by the Sitges of
the Court on behalf f the gralefid cthyzens of the Distnict of Columbia. :

Nee
ty

L_ S¢ &
Wh Eb
R,

EXECUTIVE (OFF
DISTRICT OF CO

|| Nw 68261
| Docid:32239461 Page 24 7



Helect Committee on Assassinations

GH. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

August 16, 1977

TO: BECKY
FROM: NANCY
RE: LILLIAN JOHNSON

Thought you would want a copy
of her resume. She will be
starting 8-29-77.

| NW 68261

Docld:32239461 Page 25



“ee .“
ernsces™

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

Soong Cea

Nw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 26


RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)

(202) 755-6808\(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/77 - Present

12/76 - 2/77
9/76 - 11/76
1/16 - 9/76
8/T4 - 9/75
11/73 - 8/74
5/13 - 6/14
| 1/73 - 8/73
| 3/10 - 3/71
2/68 - 1/70
5/67 - 1/68
|
: 5/66 - 5/67

| NW 68261

Docld:32239461 Page 27

Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee

2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.

Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator
Congressional Budget Office .
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary

Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

Arent, Fox,.Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W.

.. Secretary

Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "Cc"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist

\



“et ° nson Cont'd
Education:
“1/72 - T/NT Strayer College, 13th @ "qn Streets, N.W.
| Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
| Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary
9/63 - 6/64 Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. . Secretarial Course
, 9/59 - 6/62 Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "NN"
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses !
Skills: Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80 |
Seeking opportunity for career professional position ; !
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasionally
Personal: Divorced ~
One daughter age 8 years.
|
——— — mere ee a eee nee -
NW 68261

\ Docld:32239461 Page 28


a 2

RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)

(202) 755-6808'(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/17 - Present

12/76 - 2/77

9/76 - 11/76

7/76 - 9/76
8/T4 - 9/75
11/73 - 8/74
(>.
5/13)- cha
1/73 - 8/73
3/70 - 3/71
2/68 ~ 1/70
5/67 - 1/68
5/66 = 5/67

tw 68261
| Docld:32239461 Page 29

Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator

Congressional Budget Office
and & "D". Streets, S.W. Secretary

Stuart Temporaries, Ine.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

Arent, Fox,.Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W.
Secretary

Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "Cc"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

Model Inner Cities Community Organization
Qth & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretar:

American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Streets,
Clerk-typist

y



* Education:
- )
1/72 rh) )]

9/63 - 6/64
9/59 - 6/62
Skills:

Personal:

hw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 30

-2- Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont!

Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. Secretarial Course

Graduate of Dunbar High School, lst & "NT
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80

Seeking opportunity for career professional position . :
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasional}

Divorced

One daughter age 8 years.



Dear Ms. Johnson:

The Inauguration of
~ Ristory that serves

est degree of pro fessio
You were always willing
asked of you.

Throughout the planning
an everchanging List of

a _---a on

| NW 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 31

Febwary 7, 1977

n to you for your most co

entia£ Comittee.
natism and dedication in many ampontant tasks.

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express
thein sincere appreciatio mnendab.

support of the 1977 Inauguration. -
the President of the United States is a moment in
as a vehicle to communicate
ment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that 1 formed
the Inaugural Security and Cred!

Le efforts in

Zo the world the commit-

this Letter to you ab a member of
You displayed the high-

and ready to work Long hours, above and beyond

the nounal work day. You volunteered your Services for almost anything

and ampLementation period, you were faced with

requirements .

atanding of the difsiculties faced by
cooperative attitude are indi
ok manner of performance wis truly outstanding.

Tg we had the power today,
of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action.

words, we say again, thank you for all

ive of a tue pro fessional.

Your dedication to duty, under-

the Inaugural Committee, and .-
Your over

each of “you would receive a tangible medal

Possessing onty
the service given 40 unselfishty.

Sincerely,


LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served (ith distinction on behalf of the

Armed Horces of the United States.
at the Gnanguration of

Jimmy Carter
on ithe ttuentieth day of Panwarg,

one thousand, nine-lundced seventy seben
in | Bashington, Piste of Golub

SAT Tike uw Kee

Bardyl B. Tirana Bicki Rogers Robert G. Perks
Co-Chainpersons Mater General USA
1977 Snangural I Commttien EG ; Chatrnan °

| how 68261 ra : _

Docld:32239461 Page 32


THE WHITE HOUSE a |
. WASHINGTON : i}

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and

untiring work on the 1977 inauguration.

The inaugural program was a great suc-

cess, open to all of our citizens. This

. would not have been possible without the
unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long

o hours freely given by volunteers such c
as you.

You have helped to set an example of what
we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.
Many thanks.

Sincerely,

|
7 |
, : Miss Lillian Johnson . |

7516 Forest Road : . =
Landover, Maryland 20875

Nw 68261 near woe
Docld:32239461 Page 33 :


Ko ——
| Nw 68261

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

Soy CLL.

Docld:32239461 Page 34



Life Experience: Inauguration of President and Vice President
c of the United States, 1977 Presidential
Inaugural Committee, Washington, D.C.

on Descriptors

Competency Statement Posi

As Site Coordinator &
Administrative Assistant

of the Inaugural Committee's
Security & Credential division,
I have:

A. Acquired knowledge as to how
legislative priorities are set

B. Held high level administrative |
responsibility in operating the
office

C. Supervised productivity, flow of
work and overall operations of
our office with top United States
Secret Service officials and
congressional members.

D. Through the concept of creative \
office leadership I have assisted \
in planning, organizing and con-
trolling the operations of presi-
dential security

E. Utilize techniques to help main-
- tain good employee relations
through effective supervision,
delegation, evaluating, training,
and thorough communications with
usSS.

F. Arranged-and made contacts with
’ top USSS agents, presidential
advance team, and congressional
_members for indepth security
conferences.

| hw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 35



Nw 68261

tee C AMENDMENT TO 3

IMPORTANT: Read these instructions carefully before completing this form.
‘This form may be used to update your Personal Qualifications Statement provided you have had no more than three additional positions since the statement

being
Thukccd' was Zomplead. Agencies are required to accept 4 previously completed Personal Qualifications Statement as current when this form is attached. Before
cemplecing this form, review carefully your answers t all ems on the statement being updated. Use typewriter if available. Otherwise write or print legibly in
dark ink.

2 DATE OF THIS STATEMENT | 3. BMITH DATE (mowtb, day, year)

17, 1977 Decenber 6, 1943

‘5. REASON FOR SUBMISSION (Check Owe)

1. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden. if any) O) me. [] miss [) Mas.
‘AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code)

nena LD To update Personal Qualifications Statement in my Official Personal Folder
DD Te update Personal Qualifications Statement on fle with you

Sek To vpdate ottached Perione! Qualifications Statement

OAs requested

. LOWEST PAY OR GRADE YOU WILL ACCEPT
Pay

bE por o
7. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back Account for periods of unemployment ix separate blocks in order)

PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS STATEMENT RPPROVED $0-RoO4s

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? [JYes [] No (A "No" will net affect your
comsideration for employment opportunites.)
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year) TRACT TE OF POSTION W FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR
from May 9, 1977 10 peesent nme Clerk-typist Ce}

“SALARY OR EARNINGS (OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS O8 ORGANIZATION
sammg § 179+ pexWeek ar, Wash: , EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED meennfacrurig, acownting, trar-

FINAL s

Per . D.C. 0 Housing & Urban Develbp

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if knowm)

Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD)
Charles eld Washington, D.C. 20410

‘AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

including correspondence, staff studies, technical pape
which include the use of terminology that is highly specialized. Responsi
maintenance of subject matter files for the staff. (Even though this job

does not indicate), I have taken dictation and transcribed it forcthe Special

Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Developtént. Pe¥form all
secretarial duties. = oo

2

FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, ot.)
free
=<

F FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
(OR MILITARY GRADE

rom i)

AVG. HRS.| PLACE NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION

SALARY OR EARNINGS
PER WEEK. EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED (manufacturing, accoxnting,

STARING = $ am:

rer
susuranc, etc.)
FINAL s vex ‘STATE:

NAME OF UAMEDIATE SUPERVISOR. NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, et.) AND ADORESS (including ZIP Code, if known)

‘AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR LEAVING

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS

FOR AGENCY USE (shill codes, etc.)

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ‘Standard Form 172, January 1972
US. Givil Service Commission

472-102

Docld:32239461 Page 36



DATES OF EMPLOYMENT, (month, year) EXACT TITLE OF POSITION 1 FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN
to (OR MAITARY GRADE

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADORESS (including ZIP Code, if known)

SALARY OR EARNINGS ‘AVG. HRS.| PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT MUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
i ‘Stamm “-$ om PER WEEK] cory, EMPLOYEES: SED wfacoaring, accounting, insur-
]. NAL s ren STATE:

"AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN.
REASON FOR LEAVING
(DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS,

FOR AGENCY USE (sill codes, etc.)

8. Space for explaining other changes o¢ additions to the qualifications statement being updated. If amy answer to an item on the qualifications statement being
Seinted is incorregt or incomplece as of the date of this amendment, identify the item by aumber and explain. (Check one) Ey Other changes or additions
listed below [1] No other changes or sdditions.

trem | if more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, position (or title and aumber
NO. | of announcement) filing for, and date of the qualifications statement being updated. Attach all sheets to this form.

eee

i
i

CERTIFICATION
1 CERTIFY that the statements me on this form update my Perronal Qualifice-

Hons Statement completed 2 (month, year) ond are true, complete, ond
correct to the best of my knfwledge ond belief, ond are mode in good faith.

SIGNATURE (Sign tm mh) Cm 7” ss Lo —

FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW
:

€ ry |
a |

7 I ~ _
NW 68261 7.
Docld:32239461 Page 37



cannon nministrative Asst.

T. Spoons for which you wish co be considered (if listed in anmounceent)
Legislative Aide
Dy Primasy place(s) you wish co be ermployed

i ,_D.C., Metropolitan area

Z Home phone (including Aree or 3. Office phone (including Aree Code)

772-3341 (301) 775-5860
4 Name (Last) (i) (Mids) Maley fy) 7) me Min DJ

3. Legal of voung residence (State)
District of Columbia

‘8. Birthplace (City and State, ar forvign country)
District of Columbia

loved by the Rederal Government 2 cian, give Your

Dace of service in that pade - 1
May 9, 1977 ° present time _| [Benne ood Tie

12 Ifyou axe carready on a lit of cligibles fr appointment to a Falenl positon. ge
the name of the announcement, the name of the office raaintaining the
Sr your noes of aoa. and your Mag.

Stenographer and Typist

United States Civil Service Commission
Federal Register

April 25, 1977 — Typist 4 — Steno 5
13, Lowest pay or grade you will accapt

[No] 16 Where will you accept a job?
(Acceptance 07 refusalef  —1 month or less? , FS _—Washington, D.C.
SE Tne wig 10 4 month? | 1X | 0
for otber appeinments,) 4 oo 1a » Lx be] (Outside of thé United Sars. [|

9. VETERAN PREFERENCE. Answer all parts. If « part does oot apply to you, answer “No.”

i ee pe eee
B. Hive ever been discharged from the armed services under other than honorable conditions ? ke omit any dischar choaged
ee JonSis by o Dischuad Review Board or similar mthority.).s eevee . (yon may 7 such =
Uf "Yes," give daails im Item 37.
( Do you claim 5-point preference based on active duty in the armed forces?
Ufc." you will be required ta furnish records to support your claion at the time you art appoia'
1D. Do you claim 10-point preference?. . se ceeeeeeeser
I "Yes." chach te of preference claimed and complete and atach Standard Ferm 1%

? comin Veteran Preference

in thet form tre: eae ( wite
© Lise Dates, Branch, ad Seal ot Service Number of All Active Sexvice (Eater “N/A” if nat applicable)
: From To Branch of Service Sezist of Service Numbi

N/A . .

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER Ca Form 171
5 U.S. Civil Service Cor

Nw 68261 wee

Docld:32239461 Page 38

« [TIA Kind of position: (job) you are Bling for (or title of B. Announcement | “DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCT
, FOR USE OF EXAMINING CFFICE ONLY.

uw be have ever been empl
tase classification series, grade, and job title. THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTING OFFICER|
. Preference has been verified through proof that the sep
GS-318-5 Clerk-typist under honorable condisoos, and other proof as required.

C+m [Ll ior.com dim [J 10P 0

17. Will you sccept less chan full 6
‘Lest thaw 40 bears per week) [] Ye,



May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your charscier, (cations, and record of employmeat?..s.tssvevevsveveves Elves [Jno

CA "Ne" will net affact your consideration for-empleyment opportunities Tap fe HEARING EXAMINER petitions. )

Nomber aE (eocretary. Kindof business or ‘organization
()( manufacturing, accounting, inturency, i
{977 Inaugural Comte.’
‘Name of employer (firm, organization, ef.) and address (including ZIP Cod, if known)
1977 Inaugural Committee, 2nd & "D" Streets, S.1
Washington, D.C. 20024

‘Area Code and phooe No. if known 202/472-4350 _
Resse for wencng © lee

amber snd kindof explssea Kind of business of organization
supervised (manufacturing, scconnting, inserena,
ete.)

‘Name of employer (firm, organization, eft.) and address (including ZIP Code, if kaowm)

Congressional Budget Office

ic r 2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. |

[Besse Be Terns Temporary position 2 i

Description of duties, responsibilities, and sccomplithmens — Secretary in Budget Analysis Division, Human Resourc

and Personnel Office. Worked with several Analyst. Typed UP proposals, budget. |
i ted

|
|
Federal |
|
|
|

Dates of employment (month, year)
7/16

|
|
IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS |
Page 2 SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET |

HT cane a ——
NW 68261 ; = -
Docld:32239461 Page 39



© 20, EXPERIENCE (Seart utch ya

fey be made of rout present employer teza:ting your
ssull eet agiat your coasusvasion for eipisjsiath Gf.

9775

ERESENT positon aed work baci. steawal for poriads of

‘Exact title of position
Legal Secretary

‘Avg. bes. [Place of employment [Number and kind of employers] Kind of business or oigapimeuca

per week } City: Washing ton| supervised Cganafaciri of, accounting, insurance,

37s fsa: D.C. i!) Law Firm

‘Name of employes (frm, ergenization, ec.) wad address (including ZIP Cade, if teoun)

Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn

1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Dates of employment (asia, rar)
From ‘8/74
Sslary oF earnings
Sasiss$ 10,500 yr.
Pro $ same per
‘Name of immediate supervisor
JoAnna McAtee
‘Area Code and phone No. if krown
Reason for wanting wm leave Laid off
ir tioa of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishmens Legal Secretary to several attorneys in the tir,
in_areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-—took
dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed brieis,
proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.

Dates of employment (moaib, ear) Exact tile of position If Federal service,

Prom 11/73 To 8/74 Secretary = | j
Salary of earnings [Avg. hrs. | Place of employment Number and kind of employees | Kind of business or organization } |
Scaring $ 4 59 P= hr, per week | City: Washington ‘supervised (menefestering accounting, insursax, j |

Final § per 20 fsa: D.C. 0 Secretarial Service | |
Name of immediate supesvsor ‘Name of employer (Arm, organization, cc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if lmoun) Hal
Clara, Bob Temporaries, Inc., 1015 -18th Street, N.W. |
‘Ares Code and phooe No. i known Washington, D.C. ims

Deseripuica of daziss, ite, acd accomplishment Gained experienced in working with many law firms 1 1
in_the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term; |

assignments.

Ror agency use (shill codes, 6.)

Dates of eraployment (meatb, yaar) Exact title of position If Federal service, vila oF mil

From 4/73 to 6/73 Transcriber . [ene

‘Avg. hrs. [Place of employment [Nurober and kind of employess| Kind of businems or orgeniaatoa

per week | City: Washington |=?" (narafacteringaantng taurasa,
fe,

Seate: D.C. 0 Reporting Agency

T Name of employer (Ar. eccenization, et) and address (“welading ZIP Code, if Eeown)

Hoover Reporting Agency

3rd & Mass. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C.

Description of duties responsibilities, and accompishmens ‘Transcriber of reporters notes from courtroom

| NW 68261
| Doctd:32239461 Page 40



l . Rr,

\quity be made of your present employer Fee
all mot afet your coasuderation jor enpinye

1B your character, qualifcaticns, and record of empleyment?.......
ortuncties exept for HEARING EXAMINER postions.)

Dates of empicyoent (wath, yer) 7/74 ‘Exact title of position
‘To PRESENT TINE

udent
‘Avg. bra. | Face of employment
per week }Ciy: Washington |=Pevieed

Af Federal service, civiliaa or military
wee

Sumter gad of ener Kind of business or organization
(mansfacturing, accounting, intusascr,
«)

Reporting Agency

Nase of employer (frm, egotization, a) nd addres (inclading ZIP Code, if koaun)
Bernie Richards BGH Reporting Agency

‘Area Code and phone No. if known 24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Reason for wanting m lesve Course related - for experience only.

Desciption of duties, responsibilices, and accomplishments
Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom

rocedures. Transcribed notes.

= ie

Dates of employment (month, year) ‘Exact title of position . If Federal service, civilian or military
From 5/13/74 To 6/14/74 Legal Secretary ede
‘Salary of earnings ‘Avg. hrs. | Place of employment Number and kind of employees [Kiad of business or organization
Saring$ 4 50 P= ohr, pa wet ICir'vashington, supervised manefacrring accounting, inszrsec,
Fal $ same per 73s | Seare: D.C. [') Congressional Of fice

Name of employes (frm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if knoum) j

Marilyn Shapiro Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman

‘Ares Code and phone No. if known Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E. j
Reson forlaring Temporary position 5 ‘
Desciption of duties, responsibilities, and sccompliskmens Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres. A
Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones, |
took dictation and transcribed.

‘Name of immedizte supervisor

Dates of employment (month, year) [Exact title of position Wf Federal service, civilian or miliary
Prom 3/70 To 3/71 Secretary ote

|

, Fos agency woe (hill ede,
fo 5 —j

| Q

|

|

Salary or earcings ‘Avg. his. | Face cf emspusyment [Number and kind of employees | Kiod of business or organization

| Saring$ 6 500 PE yr. pe week | Cor:Washington |"? (manafactring, accountng, inserana,

j Fad $ 7,000 per 373s D.C. 0 lucational Asso.
Name of immeciate supervisor Narse of employes (frm, organization, ee.) and address (including Z1P Cock, if Broun) |
Dr. John Mallan American Association of Junior Colleges
‘Area Code and phone No. if known One Dupont Circle, N.W., Washington, D.C. |
| Reaion fer leavine Moved to N.Y.C. “* 1
Description of duties, responsibilities, end acomplishmens Secretary to Director of Veteran Programs, kept |

ords, arranged for travel and conferences, handled phones, typed general |

" |

a OT)
. A D514 6 tr. brie + |

, |

Nw 68261 To _
Docld:32239461 Page 41



[|

Name of employer (firm, organization, ec.) and address (including ZIP Cade, if kaoun)
Layle Luckett Harbridge House, Inc.
"Area Code and phone No. if known 2100 "M" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

‘Reason for wanting wo eave Due to iliness, Hepatitis
aa Secretary to four management consultants, wrote

‘Name of immediate supervisos

Dasciption of duties, responsibiliges, and accorapiis

travel, typed gov't. proposals, traveled occasionally. |

‘Por agency use (skill codes, ete.)

[Exact atle of position Tf Federal service, civilian or cailicary
To 1/68 Secretary . wrade
(Avg. bia, [Place of employment Number and kind of employers | Kind of Business or organizstion
= yr, pe week City: Washington 4 Pres (penatecering acconsting, insurana,
per 37-3 |sece: D.C. 2 Employment Agency
‘Name of immediste supervisor Name of eraployes (frm, organization, etc.) and adiness (inslsdng 21P Code, if ;
Joyce Sarsfield Tabulating Research and Development Agency |
‘Aver Cod, paox No Eknewn 14th & "K" Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason forleaving Company went bankrupt  - 5
[Descripsen of eutiss, Tesporaivilities, and eccomplishmens Secretary to two job counselors. Typed up —|

resumes for system analyst and programmers, filed records, typed general SoRrEsponTersy

|

For agency use (shill codes, et.)

Dates of eraployment (manib, year) [Exact title of posicon Tf Federal service, civilian or miliary

From 4/66 To 5/67 Clerk-typist grde
ty of TAvg. hrs. of empiay ment ed Lintofempiojas| Kind of busines or orgeaiaa— |i
Surting $4200 Pr yr. pet week | City: Washington} "Po . (manafactring, asventng, imsaranay,
Final $ per 40 State: D.C. 0 Paiversity
Name cf wepenvier ‘Name of employe: (frm, ergenization, att.) and ada ZIP Cock, if Poeun)
Nadine Flack Georgetown University, 37th & "O" Sts., N.W.

‘Area Code anc phone No. if known Washington, D.C.

, 220 RIENCE (Start witl peur PrLoA NT per Oe eee ee ee SS ee *
May inquiy be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment |
CAoRe" will wet 30 your censcierstion for eplogrart ejzortanctues exept fir EASING EXAMINER feittiems ) Dre [ne i

I 0 Dares of empleyment (atl, er) 4/70 Exact tide of position If Federal service, civilian or miizy
From 2/68 ‘To PRESENT TIME Secreta: oe
Tag er earniagy Avg, bes. [Place of employment tad Kind of employeas| Kind ef business or orpenicsion
Searing $ § 000 Pr oyr. pe week | Cicy: Washington clo accounting, insutamce,
Present 9 pe 3735 |seae: D.C 2 janagement Consultant

letters of general correspondence, kept Tecords, arranged for conferences and —_}

JRevon Sitovee, resigned for higher paying ‘position.

Descripsica of duces, responubustes, and sccompusamenc typed letters of general correspondence and
uden

Ror agency use (skill endes, .)

IF YOU NEED ADDITION
Page?

NW 68261 oe
Docld:32239461 Page 42



-

a 5 . © ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY AND FULLY

aA Special ulin td sil (tills with machin ‘Patent or inventions; yout wa important publications (de wet submit copies baless reqnested); year pablic
Pesking cad publications experience; mesbership in professional or scientific secietet; eft)

Most IBM Vou itece, Selectric II, Standard Electric, Executive, etc.
Operate Court Reporters model—Stenotype machine for dictation
Operate the stenorette, IBM Dictaphones & others

10 key adding & calculator machines

B Kind of License or Cercificare (For example, pilet,

© Seate or other licensing suthority [D. Year of frst |E Year oflaen |F. imate aumbet
nurs, lawyer, radio eperater, CB.A.,¢k,) ine license license

rae oar os nies
Shorthand

'22.A. Did you graduate from high school, or wil B. Name and location (city end Stats) of lat high school atteaded
Sea] me aSTY Ge SOILS Durbar Righ School, lst & "H" Streets, N.W.

i
See ken pe | dew wma | Yor Gap aT

Z bi ths,
Bui att eo at)? oe I
| Strayer College SE 7721774
S, N.

oS Sake ee a
Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y., Avenue, N.W. 1964
Secretarial Course, typing, speedwriting, clerical

25. HONORS. AWARDS, AND FELLOWSHIPS 24, LANGUAGES OTHER THAN ENGLISH

1977 1 Thaugural Committee meng ate of cpa

Certificate of Appreciation
White House letter
Jury Duty Certificate

25. REFERENCES. List three persons who are NOT related co you and who have definite knowledge of jcations and firness for the foe which
you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 20, EXPERIENCE. Set hoss Pos

(Number, Strest, City, State and ZIP Cade)
New Samaritan Baptist Church
6th & Maryland Avenue, Nu. E.
Office

Nw 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 43

i



ANSWER ITEMS 26 THROUGH 36 BY PLACING AN “X” IN THE PROPER COLUMN.

. If "No," give country of which you are a citizen:

Before answering these questions read Items 27 and 28 in the attached instractions.
127. Are you aow a member of che Communist Parry, U.S.A. or any subdivision of the Communist Parry, U.S.A.?.

}28. (2) Are you now, or within che last ten years have you been, a member of any organization, or group of persons including bur nor limiced
wm the Communist Pary, U.S.A., or any subdivision of che Communist Parry, U.S.A., which during the period of your membership you knew
was advocating or teaching thar the government of the United States or any political subdivision thereof should be overthrown or overrurned by
force, violence, of any unlawful means? a

28. (b) If your answer co (8) is in the affirmative, did you, during the period of such membership. have the specific inrent wo further the aims of
such organization o group of persons to overthrow or overtura the government of the United Scares or any state or any political subdivision
thereof by force, violence, or any unlawful means? i

29. If your answer w 27 or 28(a) above it the affirmative seuse the aames of such organizaci
inem 37. . aaa

30. Within the last five years have you been fired (rom any job for any resson?. .
31. Within che last five years have you quit # job after being nocifed that you would be Gred?.
Uf your answer te 30 07 31 abuse is"Yes,” give details in Item 37. Show tbe name and address (including ZIP Code) of emplayer, approximate dat, and
= reasons in cach case. This information ibould agree with your antuert ix Item 20, EXPERIENCE.

32. Have you ever been convicted of an offense against the law or forfeited collateral, or are you now under charges for any offense against the law?
(You may omit: (1) traffic violations for which you paid « fine of $30.00 or lets; and (2) any offense committed before your 21st birthday which
was finally licated in a juvenile court or under a Youth Offender law.) .

33. While in the military service were you ever convicted by general court- martial?

Uf your anrwer to 32 oh 33 is “Yes,” give details in Item 37. Show for each offense: (1) date; (2) charge; (3) place; (4) aurt; and (3) action taken.

34. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity or as a member of the Armed Forces any relstive of yous (by blood or marriage)?
(See tems 34 and 35 ‘a the attached instruction sheet.)....-.---2.00 0-00 Goa eagaaceaceEaEees a Baton

35. Do you live wieh, or within the past 12 months have you lived with, any of these relatives who are employed ia a civilian capacity?. ps08
Uf your anrwer to 34 11" Yes,” give ow Ltem 37 far such reLotines: (1) full name; (2) present address (including ZIP Cade); (3) relationship; (4) depan-
sant, agency, or branch of the Armed Forces. If your anruer to 35 is "Yes," alse give the kind of appointment beld by the relatives) you live wath or have
lived with within tbe past 12 mantbs.

36. Do you receive or do you have a pending application [or retirement of retainer pay, pension, or ocher compensation based upon military, Federal
Givilian, or District of Columbia Government service?....... a tetceee ae
Uf your answer is” Yes," give details in Item 37. 5 4

Your Statement conmot be processed until you bave answered all questions, including Items 26 through 36 above. Be rare you have placed an

Te the left of EVERY |
marker (<q } above, cither tm the" Yes" er the "No" columa. i

37. Space for detailed answers. Indicate Item number to which answers apply. |
Teem No.

If more space is vse full sheets of paper approximately che same size as this page. Wrise on EACH shect your ame, birth dete. and exremacnmest |
(Patti Cae: Atach all thewt to this Statement ithe op of Page Sone PE m |

ATTENTION — THIS STATEMENT MUST BE SIGNED

Read tho fellowing paragraph carofully before signing this-Ratement -
A felce answer to any quostion In this Statement may bo grounds for not omploying yeu, ar for élemisiing yeu cfter you begin
work, and may be punishable by fino or Imprisonment (U.S. Code, Tilo 18, fee. 1001). All statemants are s1:5fect to lnvestigation,
Induding © check of your fingerprints, police records, and formar amp!oyers. All the Information you olvo will bo eonsidsred In
roviewing your Statement and Is sub]2¢? to Invostigation. A false answer to items 27 er 28 could deprive you of your right to cn
anaulty vchon you reach rotirement oze In addition to the penalles deserfbed above.

CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sige iu inh) DATE SIGNED

1 CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this Starement Men FE Dehn ——| may 17, 1977
. ,

are crue, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge
| rere ran rrr

and belief, atid ace made in good faith.

J a

| —
| NW 68261 oe _ 7
| Docld:32239461 Page 44



\ _ ~ UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

NOTICE OF RATING

-- APPLICANT MUST FILL IN ALL BLANKS IN THIS SECTION ONLY
TITLE OF EXAMINATION PLAGE OF EXAMINATION DATE OF TEST

April 25, 1977

” Stenographer and Typist Washington, D.C.

NAME AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)

‘This is not a notice of appointment.
It ls @ record of your rating. It is im-
Portant that you keep it.

PERIOD OF CONSIDERATION
FROM ISSUE DATE

(Cemontos . [12 MONTHS

3

Lillian B. Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

years .
SEE REVERSE SIDE

Y
. w You are ELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

_—
ATING FOR CIVIL SERVICE

CLERK-TyPIST CLERK. eee EMACHING STENOGRAPHER | NUMERICA
_ > ut Le
STENOGRAPHER | TRANSCRIBER (TRAINEE) RATING IS COMMISSIONIUSELONLY,
= TEST SCORES
O as2 Os Ocs3
O,s3 Oks O as2 82.0 [GENERAL TEST
cs4 GS-5 Ocs« {CLERICAL PLUS VERBAL)}

AMOUNT OF VETERAN PREFERENCE INCLUDED IN YOUR RATING: sets] rors [)

102
TYPING

You are INELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

CLERK- CLERK-DICTATING CLERK i
cuene-rvnist | srenScRdonen | rpitascitien | “TREES 64/6
1
O oss Gs3
O Gs4 o Dos2 DICTATION
O css Ocs4

119
CLERICAL

REASON FOR INELIGIBILITY:
You did not earn a passing score for the grade(s), checked ineligible, therefore no numer-
ical rating is assigned for them.

‘You did not pass the typing performance test.

‘You did not pass the stenography performance test.

Your lowest acceptable salary is higher than that of the position in which you qualify.
Your qualifications statement does not show that you meet the minimum experience

or education required for the grade(s) checked ineligible.

You failed to reply to official correspondence.

61

00 0000 oO

THE ITEMS CHECKED BELOW APPLY TO YOU: oan ona aye

C You passed the general tests. If you recompete, you need retake only the typing part (and o1
apply for stenographer) of the test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifi
Standard Form 171. .

1 You failed the stenography test only. If you recompete, you need retake only that test. You must also present
this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, S.F..171. : Albay

© You may not enter on duty until completion of required education is shown.

ing part if you
s Statement,

O Your qualifications statement is attached in case you wish to apply for a different position. !
\
SATE OF Inaue ISSUING OFFICE Doited States Civil Service Commission |
April 25, 1977 #99 1900 E Street, N.W. AH
Washington, D.C. 20415 |
! =|
| BE SURE TO READ THE IMPORTANT MESSAGES ON THE BACK OF THIS FORM . ? i
~ okt et eve Part I 5 . [Sc FORM 4008.¢
mae t i eee . Ly ..} OCTOBER 1973

NW 68261 _
| Docid:32239461 Page 45



| Superior Court
of the istrict of Columbia

LILLIAN B, JOHNSON |

, having soured with distinction as a fervor tn the Sa eer fl
Covent of the District of Columbia during eo month 27 el cin ev SS 7 p____JANUARY lg

ts presented this cerbfivals of appreciation for significant community sexvice by the fogs Wi
the Court on kehaff of he grolofial okiyens of de District f Columbia.

; Certificate of Appreriation
a

R,
MBIA COURTS

eeasesesesnsesesesesesesese!

Is

68261 ae
1d:32239461 Page 46



February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express
their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in
Support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in
history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the workd the comnit-
ment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this Letter to you as a member of
the Inaugural Security and Credentiak Committee. You displayed the high-
est degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work Long hours, above and beyond
as ees work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything
as; of you.

Throughout the planning and dmptementation period, you were faced with
an everchanging List of requirements. Your dedication to duty, under-
standing of the diffi ies faced by the Inaugural Committee, and .

cooperative attitude are indicative of a ue professional. Your over-

all manner of performance was truly outstanding.

1 we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal
of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing onky
words, we say again, thank you for all the service given 0 unselfishly.

Sincerely,

Frank on, Director
Si ity § lentiats Committee

Donald ck, Deputy Chiefs
In Charge of Internal Security

DD nec ene AO arene OLD SMI A pee NON Anne nin ee Se

| Docld:32239461 Page 47



LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served fuith distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of

Jimny Carter

on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven

)
in Washington, District of Columbia

Bae Tile Gun KO fea.

Bardyl R. Tirana — Bicki Ros Robert GC. Perks
Co-Chaizpers Major Gmoeral USA

1977 oy Committee : Chairman

| Nw 68261
| Docld:32239461 Page 48


THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

fo Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and
untiring work on the 1977 inauguration.
The inaugural program was a great suc-
cess, open to all of our citizens. This
would not have been possible without the
unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long
hours freely given by volunteers such

as you.

You have helped to set an example of what
| ‘we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.
Many thanks.

Sincerely,
Ga
Miss Lillian Johnson

7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

| Docld:32239461 Page 49


Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

Song CL

1 - _ : : —_ |
| Nw 68261 a
| Doctd:32239461 Page 50 ee



Febtuany 7, 1977
|

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express
their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in
Support of the 1977 Inauguration.

| The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in
history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the workd the comnit- lor
ment and spirit of the, New Administration. ; \

It is with this in mind that 1 fonmard this Letter to you as a member of |
the Inaugural Security and Credentiak Committee. You displayed the high- |
est degree of professconatism and dedication in many 4mponrtant tasks. |

ow

| You were always willing and ready to work Long hows, above and beyond '
the nonmaf work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything |
asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation p iod, you were faced with
an everchanging List of requirements. Your dedication to duty, under-
standing of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Conmittee, and - |
cooperative attitude are indicative 0f a true professional. Your over- |
- al manner of performance was truly outstanding. |
If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal

of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only i
words, we say again, thank you for atl the service given so unselfishly. |

Sincerely,

Faank on, Director
Ss ity & lentiags Committee

Donald ck, Deputy Chief
In Change of Internal Security

| NW 68261 SO
Docld:32239461 Page 51 :


LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served ith distinction on behalf of the
Armed Gorces of the United States
at the Gnauguration of

Jimmy Carter — -

on the thentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred peuge ee

in Bashington, District of Columbia

| Bardyl R. Tirana Bui Roe Robert G. Berks

Cu-Chainpersons Major Gororal USA
| 1977 Gnangural Committee : Chairman . 7
| tw 68261 aes

Docld:32239461 Page 52


THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and
untiring work on the 1977 inauguration.
The inaugural program was a great suc-
cess, Open to all of our citizens. This
would not have been possible without the
unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long
hours freely given by volunteers such

as you.

You have helped to set an example of what
we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.
Many thanks.

Sincerely,
Zz,
ing Lee
Miss Lillian Johnson

7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

_

tw 68261

Docld:32239461 Page 53



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

ji on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

' hereby authorize the following payroll action:

i Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
: Litlian 8. Jehnsan January 12, 1978
3 Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

CO Appointment

O Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

a ination (At close of business on effective date)

‘ fssaszinations Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
i close of business, )

i {if type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is @ civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

} 1. D Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1] Professional.

2. A Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.455

i 3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__ If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 US.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

December 29

All. appointments.and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for:Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the. Committee on the Budget, and-the Joint Committees,.must-
be approved by the Committee on House.Administration.

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

APPROVED: ee _
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
i Office of Finance use only: ID on
: Office Cod Benefits
' Monthly Annuity $ Payroll __

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261
Docld:32239461 Page 54

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes -

sont’



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorizieg otttial initialed. by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

' hereby authorize the following payroll.action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) i Effective Date
L “LAMan 3. Johnsen January 12, 1978
Employee Social Security Number an Type of Action

1D Appointment
0 Solory Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee . - . | i Title Change
|<] Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations CD Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business__.

Specify Date

(If type of action isan, Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or- Title Change, complete appropriate information: below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee isa
plus the salary received from the employing office.

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or C1 Professional.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_________-___ If applicable, Level_______. Step________

' certify that this authorization is not in violation: of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b),. prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Type or print nome of Authorizi

Chat rman

(itle=If Member, District ond Store)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for.Committee em-
ployees,.except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the. Committee on the Budget, and:the Joint Committees,-must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.__

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

tw 68261 ne
Docld:32239461 Page 55

ivil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include-the annuity received by the employee «

mae
