# docid-32336522

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12:14-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90134-10106

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-4579-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: LV

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

04/25/1968

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

NICHOLAS PETER DANOLFO

EDWARD PIERPONT MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

/ NW 64578 Docld:32336522 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 /Rev. 38-477

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LAS VEGAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LAS VEGAS

NICHOLAS PETER DANOLFO, aka

DATE

4/25/68

REPORT MADE BY

MICHAEL G. SIMON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/28/67 - 4/17/68

AR

TYPED BY

dl1

REFERENCE:

Report of SA MICHAEL G. SIMON, dated 7/19/67 at

Las Vegas.

-C-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigative period in this report is excessive,

however, the matter has received continuous investigation.

The observations of DANOLFO were made on numerous

occasions during the investigative period by SA MICHAEL G..

SIMON.

CONVIC.

AUTO.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

Pers

3-Bureau (92-4579)

1-Las Vegas (92-274)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-I

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

ENDING OVER ONE YEAR SATYES M7I

EYES LINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4519-30

REC 6

NS APR 29 1968

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Ewd.

How Flyd.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

[CO. A.:G, Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and Racketeering

Notations

NW 64578 Docld:32336522 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LV 92-274

The information reflected in the records of the

Cleveland Retail Credit Mens Company, as obtained by

IC CECIL E. MOSES on 7/13/67, indicates Doctor NICHOLAS

PARADISE and his wife, the former MARGARET STILLWAGNER,

reside at 4076 Princeton Avenue, South Euclid, Ohio.

It is recognized that investigation of the subject has

reflected he is well acquainted with hoodlums all over the

United States. Further, that numerous allegations have been

made that the ;

subject has had

"hidden interests" in or

represented "hidden interests" in Las Vegas gambling casinos

and investigation has not substantiated this, this investigation

is being closed. Any pertinent information concerning the

subject in the future will be cause to reopen this investigation

in order to establish a violation within the AR statute.

INFORMANTS:

Source

LV T-1 is

LV 10-C

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

7/28/67

SA ARTUR N. BARRETT

LV T-2 is

CV-553 -C-TE

7/3/67

Cleveland Agent

LV T-3 is

CV 701-PC

7/3/67

Cleveland Agent

IV T-4 is

CV 583-PC

7/3/67

Cleveland Agent

LV T-5 is being used

to further conceal

LV-10-C

8/7/67

SA LOTE KINNEY, JR.

LV T-6 is Miss LOUISE

GODEL,

Somerset Inn,

Shaker Heights, Ohio

(Requested.)

8/18/67

Cleveland Agent

IV T-T is PCI

JOHN W. KILLEN

9/13/67

SA LYNNE G. TWEDE

- B-

COVER PAGE

... B

NW 64578 Docld:32336522 Page 3

---

