# docid-34517431

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#Nw

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date :

Page :

10/16/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10003-10110

RECORDS

SERIES: FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND. ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: C8005823W - PAGES 2019-2020

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE : REPORT

DATE: 10/03/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : I RESTRICTED ]

I RESTRICTED ]

FOREIGN MINISTERS' CONFERENCE

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SANCTIONS DISCUSSED

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI.

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

NW 64954 Docld:34517431 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Dotebes

25. 10 62 0N 20/192 dd

3-15-96

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID K5k

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

X RELEASE IN PART

•OTAL DENIAL EARNAX

JFKC

ớn ectober

4502 ;

a contidential taforpant,

vito has Suratehed cellable infomation in the past,

advised

be leazocd through Ambascatos Conseso

Pasto of Costa Bica-

Fac30,

in contest with

the auoject..

subject

se knows

the satoraans as the

Korner Presideas

03 Сида:

SONTA

103

"CS ASSIFIER

WHERE SHOWN,

All.

EXCEPI

STHBAWISE

Concernsta

this contact,

Prede related

that the

subjoet

i had a long tale viet Afonso Asinos,

chies of the

Braxilion Delegation to the United Hattons

Conoral Asseubly

in Now York last week and Scaraed

that Ariaos to afraid

that "113 wild" night result fron

thO

estorto made by the

Coatral Anerican Rations to failureo

: 1ras12*e position on

Cuba at

Foreigo

Ministers

Conserquee.

Faolo mentioned that tho Central Ansatcas Foreiga

Banistors recently

not but, that nothing was resolved

this meeting.

Pacdo As os

the opinion

the Boat

con be hopea

is a doctoration of the recognition of the

right of Cubans

robes ageingt the oppressive rogine of

Castro and

the

obligaston of the Centras

Amenacen

to support

thia Fovolt:

CRF FILE COPY

Facto

SANCES CAMON

at 13O

subject expacssed concern

that thore coco

not seem to be any

one

dorsaite person to

Costa Rice and other Contral Anerican countaies concornod

with banditog

the Cubaa probles.

This sakes 10 Aspossible

for the different Caban exile groupe

to DanG

topsther undex

one Leades

oach potential loader

influential fricads

in othes sountesoo.

Jacio agreco and

statco that

ase no any diffezent croups at 1a ainost

impossible to

sclect

cated nithout elzenettes

othere: 75)

Taolo atated that the subject

hoard about

tho dozzation os

to tho Aguacy

Jateznattunes Develoynent consisting

fernor. presidents

of Central Anerican counteres.

The subject 1a

concerned

that Cuba

i may be 102t out in view of

• prosent

Cabao regime:

2019

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

NW 64954 Docld:34517431 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

the corense kinsetsta. consorence, matenala

nuta probabiy asa for

escoting of sonsultation on the

Caben probten no proviocd for by the Bio Sset od 1917.

Talo setion

an probably the most that can be hopod for

da Boo precaus

burapatre,

Pacio further feote that amy

ana Chilo stoce they have compecial tles vita Cuba, t,

Tho "pionatte list", whltshed furtes August,

236ag by tho Lalted boates Bepartas 04 11000%

Ambanay

na Conte Fios 1353442000 3. 0.2

SECRET

Gli Ti.

This document contains neither

recommondetions nor conclusions

of

tho FBi.

11 13 4h0

Proporty of

the

mis agency;

itard ia, condoato danot to be

distributed outside

your agency.

2020

NW 64954 Docld:34517431 Page 3

---

