# docid-32309658

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10024

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-162207-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/10/1967

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret •

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65350 Date: 11-17-2022

v9.1

NW 65360 Docld:32309658 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-i,4)

APPROPRIATENGENCIES

AND ETILO OTTICES

ANG

SLIP (S) ON

DATE

5/10/841.20

Transmit the following in

FBI.

Date:

Via

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLeach

Mr.

Mohr-

Mr.

Wick

Mr. Caspor

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

SECRET:

7/10/67

Mr. Felt.

M:) Gale.

Lodeni

Silvan

Tavol

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

(Priority)

CIA HAS NO DELECTIN

Ngss Gandy.

DEG

__-

REL

Reepere

1707/13160

8/19/67

cute to Mm

2- mEX

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (105-12062) (P)

JORGE RAUL ROBLEJO

LORIE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

TA NFORMATION

COMENT, 5m 9-3-97

EXCEPT FOR thE BRADLES

00: Miami

HERE.

• SCATTED,

A HERE SHOWN

ORREWISE

Re Miami airtel dated 6/21/67,

captioned COMITE

PRO-LIBERACION DE LOS CIEN

(CPLIC)

LIBERATION OF THE ONE HUNORED), IS -OUT BE FOR THE

On 7/5/67, SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO,

35 West 9th Street,

Apartment 4, Hialeah, Florida, telephone

887-7218, voluntarily furnished

the following information:

10-11-47

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SED ISR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25/

p14D

-

Bureau (RM)

(1 - 105-147458) (CPLIC)

(JFK)

(2 - Legat,

Mexico (Info.)

* (1

-

105-4947) (CPLLC

(2 - Legat

Ottawa› (Info. ›

(1 - 105-3083) (CPLIC)

2 - New

York

(Info.) (RM)

2

(1

- 105-77103) (CPLLC)

5p8 markse

#21,326

Classified by 5P3 BTS/ge/ (JFK)

Declassity on: v

- San Juan

(Info.) (RM)

3

(1 - 105-9215) (CPLIC)

- Miami

1 - 134-New) (Betancourt Collazo EX-10a

(1 - 105-9977) (CPLIC)

JDH: jhk

REG 11

(15)

ACCUTTAWN"LECMEXICO

16022223

+817867 401-319178

чет

3 JUL 20 1967

JoE reviewat

La by

C. C. Wick

ESCAre 0Z16/Zvequeste

( See Butile

490)

105-162207

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

Sent

.M

Per

Approved:

Special Agent lin Charge

NW 65360 Docld:32309658 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-12062

BETANCOURT indicated that he had been the General

Coordinator of the 30th of November anti-Castro organization

in Cuba during 1959, 1960 and the first part of 1961.

arrived in the United States at Miami on June 29, 1961, via

small boat. Upon his arrival in the United states, he

assumed

leadership of the 30th of November movement in Miami until

approximately

under the cuban recruitment

1962, when he entered the U. S. Army

program at Fort Jackson, S. C.

Subsequent to this, he has been affiliated with the 30th of

November movement in Chicago for approximately two years,

ant, 1505

1963-1965, and in Miami, 1965 to date.

BETANCOURT is currently employed as a security guard

for the National Patrol Detective Agency and the National

Industrial Security Corporation (affiliates), 590 S. W.27th

Avenue,.

Miami, Florida.

In connection with this employment,

he is a

Cuban Relugee Processing Center of the

Department of Health,

Education and Weltare

(HEW) three days

la week.

The Processing Center is located in Buildings T-90

and T-94 which are utilized by the U. S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service (INS) in processing, fingerprinting

and

photographing

Cuban refugees upon their arrival in the United

States.

CIA

JEK Act 5 (g) 12) (D)

INS interviewers interrogates

these arrivals

at

this location)

BETANCOURT related he met ROBLEJO around the first

of January, 1967, when ROBLEJO reportedly returned from Mexico

City where

he had been attempting to seek the release of Cuban

political prisoners in Cuba.

He met ROBLESO through ANGELa

where Doth wowe employed as waiters at that time.

a coworker of BETANCOURT at the Hotel Fontainebleau

At the

request of ESTEVEZ, BETANCOURT furnished ROBLEJO a table gratis

at the Frank Sinatra show at the Fontainebleau Hotel, for which

sought BETANCOURT's assistance

release of political prisoners and recently BETANCOURT was

made a member of the Executive Committee of the CPLLC.

In this connection, BETANCOURT accompanied ROBLEJ0

to san suan, Puerto kico,

the first week of June, 1967.

BETANCOURT by this time had the impression ROBLEJO was actually

anti-United States and he considered ROBLEJO a "leftist-socialist."

While in Puerto Rico, they met with MANOLORAY and RUFOSLOPEZ.

ROBLEJO discussed the possibility of RAY and LOPEZ

FRESQUET

becoming active'in seeking the release of Cuban

political prisoners.

However, no definite agreement or

conclusion was reached.

- 2 -

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32309658 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-12062

-SECRET

BETANCOURT stated that on or

about June 15, 1967,

he and ROBLEJO, while

temporarily staying at 2930 Loiza,

Santurce, Puerto Rico, were having a general conversation and

ROBLEJO changed the topic to BETANCOURT's current work as

security guard at the Miami Airport where the Cuban refugees

are processed. ROBLEJO asked detailed questions concerning

the nature of

the activities at this location, to which BETANCOURT

explained that Cuban refugees upon their arrival in the United

States are processed here, including having their photographs

taken,

being fingerprinted, and being interrogated.

ROBLEJO

asked

BETANCOURT if the FBI was there, which BETANCOURT acknowl-

edged in the affirmative, and ROBLEJO asked, "What do they do

there?" BETANCOURT answered,

"They investigate and clear all

of the refugees arriving from Cuba in the United States."

ROBLEJO was interested in knowing if BETANCOURT saw "those papers"

and BETANCOURT stated he had seen them. (BETANCOURT indicated

this was entirely fictitious, but since he did not trust ROBLEJO,

he felt he might be in a position to be of possible assistance

to the U. S. Government).

ROBLEJO asked BETANCOURT if he could

"photograph...take a picture of the documents or the people

the FBI investigates."

BETANCOURT asked ROBLEJO if he was

"crazy,"

stating that if he did something like that, he could

be put

in the "electric chair." ROBLEJO indicated that with

the use of

a small camera,

this could be accomplished very

indicated to ROBLEJO he had

his child had just broken his collar bone.

indicated to ROBLEJO that his, BETANCOURT's, wife had called

and said she did not have any money in the house to buy food,

° BET AN OUT house

BETANCOURT also

etc.

At this point, ROBLEJO gave BETANCOURT a check in the

amount of $300.00, drawn on the First National Bank of Miami,

on the account of

the Committee of Relatives of the One Hundred.

ROBLEJO made out this check' in BETANCOURT'S presence and

requested $50.00 be given to ROBLEJO's mother.

Immediately,

BETANCOURT cashed the check and sent a money order to his wife,

ERMITAS RAMON ARIAS:

BETANCOURT stated ROBLEJO had given him $50.00 in

cash prior to their departure for Puerto Rico.

BETANCOURT advised he returned to Miami from Puerto

Rico on June 18, 1967, and ROBLEJO remained in San Juan until

June 28, 1967.

He recalled ROBLEJO attempted to have him stay

in Puerto Rico

and was

"mad" at BETANCOURT for leaving early.

On June 30, 1967, ROBLEJO telephonically contacted

BETANCOURT, during which conversation ROBLEO indicated he

- 3 -

SECRETI

NW 65360 Docld:32309658 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-12062

SECRET

planned to go to Venezuela, Panama

and Ottava, Canada, and

would see BETANCOURT upon his return.

ROBLEJO is interested

in obtaining a Mexican visa in order

to go to Cuba to possibly

converse with FIDEL CASTRO or other important leaders in the

communist government of Cuba in connection with the possible

release of Cuban political prisoners.

Local

stops have been placed with INS in order to be

notified of ROBLEJO's return to the United states.

Miami plans to locate and possibly monitor the bank

account of the Committee of Relatives of the One Hundred and

any other accounts where ROBLEJO is the authorized signature

of an account.

The Bureau is being requested in a separate communi-

cation captioned

"SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO, aka

"Ariel," PSI - CUBA," to grant authority to contact

him in

order to follow up in connection with ROBLEJO's request as

mentioned above in the event ROBLEJO attempts to pursue this

matter further.

The Bureau will be kept advised.

LHM incorporating

pertinent data regarding subject's activities will be promptly

furnished to the Bureau.

SECRETI

4

NW 65360 Docld:32309658 Page 5

---

