# docid-32331317

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10263

RECORD SERIES:. HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-158

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12:14-2022

• Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/14/1963

PAGES: 16

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

• CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331317 Page 1

54

---

## Page 2

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE:

SAS PAUL. G. DURKIN and CHARLES G. DONNELLY observed

subject on 12/18/62.

FRANCES AXE has been previously interviewed by the

NYO.

She has been a friend of TOURINE's for more than 20 years.

She originally knew him in Miami.

interview at this time would not be productive. u

It is felt that another

INFORMANTS:

Source

NY T-1

NY 99-C

NY T-2

PCI BARBARA GANDOLFO

contacted By

SA ARTHUR P. DUFFY

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

LEADS:

NEWARK

At Long Branch, New Jersey

Will through pertinont courtos atuemit tu fila vul ir

ANTHONY

46 Chelsea Avenue. U

"PUSSY" RUSSO and suject hang out at the Paddock Lounge,

If so, determine the activities of subject while here.

It is noted that

It is believed that TONY DALE is acquainted

with subject.

Will ascertain if RUSSO and TOURINE are planning on

establishing some sort of a loan or finance company. U

At Newark, New Jersey

will attempt to determine if subject hangs out at

the Roxy Tavern and if

so, his associates and activities.

COVER PAGE

- B-

NW 64578 Docld:32331317 Page 2

---

