JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10284-10081
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-85440-28
: Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
7 FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
: TO:
TITLE:
DATE 08/11/1967
PAGES: 185
SUBJECTS :
MAB, ASSOC, CUBAN EXILES, MIL ACT, ACA
DOCUMENT: TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
» RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

INC S/S, ADMIN PAGE

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Caset:Nw

v9.1

32

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 1


SCONES

PSI Elio Quintero (protect identity) (97-4313), 153 N.E.
44th Street, Miami, advised on 7/29/60 that he had been serving in
a liaison capacity with the MRR and prospective defectee pilots of
Cuban airlines. His operations were directed by Dr. Manuel Artime
Buesa, an ex-Lieutenant of the Cuban Revolutionary Army who now was
serving as Secretary General of the MRR. Quintero was in daily
telephonic contact with Salvador Aldereguia and Antonio Bascaro,
two members of the Cuban Revolutionary Army who were in exile in the
Dutch West Indies, and etek a ie was attempting to arrange for

their admission into the US.

7 -4313-3 p.3
(6573387

A

Carlos Rodriguez, a Cuban national living in NYC as of
August, 1960, reportedly said that he was affiliated with the
"MRR - Camilo Cienfuegos", and claimed to be in close contact with ‘
the "real MRR" in Cuba. He said that Manuel Artime was not entirely :

sound, but that the movement in Cuba now was well oy, Z and :
beginning to show signs of progress. (CIA, 9/1/60) tp Bee Aeeueys!
FH}

(cenieeeree p.2 ent

Gn July, 1960 there was dissension in the MRR leadership
which consisted of Ricardo Lorie, Higinio "Nino" Diaz, Antonio
Michel Yabor and Manuel Artime Buesa. Artime, who represented the
MRR on the FRD Executive Committee, reportedly was aligned with the
political group of Manuel Antonio de Varona, Aurelio Sanchez Arango H
and Justo Carrillo. The dissident group, Lorie, Diaz and Yabor,
who were not accepted by the FRD, aligned themselves with the
Liberation Alliance which was formed in Miami on 8/7/60, and claimed :
they were the true MRR organization. A paid political announcement i
in the 8/2/60 issue of the "Diario Las Americas" stated that Jose '
Ignacio Rasco Bermudez, a secretary of the FRD Executive Committee,
certified that the only MRR duly accredited representative of that E
organization to the FRD was Manuel Artime. The National Board of |
the MRR in Cuba, backed by the FRD, reportedly approved the reorgan- Hy
ization of the MRR and Artime's expulsion of Lorie, Diaz and Yabor
On 8/16/60, CIA, Miami (protect identity), advised that Artime an C3)

(continued )

‘
-10~-
|
i

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 2


C

Pais!

ye
VEG
~ Rudolph Fernandez (protect identity), a cotton broker of

Atlanta, Georgia who was closely associated with Francisco Gualberto
Cajigas y Garcia Del Prado, Miami, Florida, civilian leader of the
Cuban Unity of Liberation (UCL) (105-88041), furnished information
to Miami Office Agents on 9/12/60. Cajigas had told Fernandez that
Father Medina, Rector of Villanueva University, Havana, arrived in
Miami. from Havana, on 9/5/60, for the purpose of contacting
Cajigas and offering him the help and resources of the Catholic
Church in Cuba in his fight against Castro. Fernandez said that,
according to Cajigas, Father Medina advised that the Catholic Church
in Cuba was opposed to Manuel Antonio Varona of the FRD. Father
Medina also disclosed to Cajigas that Manuel Artime, one of the five
leaders of the FRD, had visited Medina and had confided that the
FRD was, divided and unhappy. U

105-88041-6 encl.p.5
(397

Ramiro Loys (protect identity), a confidential source of
information, advised on 9/6/60 that he had been told by Carlos
Marquez Sterling that Antonio (Tony) Varona was coming to Washington,
DC on 9/16/60, where he planned to confer with officials of the
Department of State and CIA concerning the eventual unification of
the various anti-Castro groups then in existence. At that time,
Varona was to discuss what assistance this group might expect from
the US and he also would provide the identity of various anti-Castro
groups known to him. Among persons under consideration by Sterling,
Varona, and others, for inclusion in this unified organization was
Artime Buesa. According to Loys, Sterling had been a Cuban president-
ial aspirant,.during the election of 1958 and Varona was a former
Cuban Senator now in exile in Miami, Florida.\,

109-584-1916
(227

Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas (2-1622), 1900 S.W. 2ist
Terrace, Miami, advised on 10/6/60 that through an intermediary
(not. further identified) he had been in contact with Manuel Artime
Buesa, military leader and member of the FRD, and had offered to join
the FRD provided the FRD would manifest certain stipulations. (Date

(continued)

-12-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 3


Fray Balbino de Ferral of the Capuchinos Convent Plaza
de Jesus #2, Madrid, Spain, advised on 8/22/63 that he had been
deported from Cuba in September, 1961. Fray Balbino stated that J
was a member of the MRR, identified as a counterrevolutionary
group which was headed by Manuel Artimes, who was one of the leaders
of the 4/17/61 Bay of Pigs invasion (sic). Fray Balbino said that
he acted in a sort of liaison capacity between the MRR and other
counterrevolutionary groups. aC

105-131153-15
(7¥

On 1/2/62, Philadelphia SOI Enrique Menocal (protect
identity) advised that the 30th of November Movement (105-92196) was
founded originally by Manuel Artime (date not. indicated) and was
composed largely of Catholic students in Cuba. Menocal said that
November 30th was the date on which Huber Matos, former military
commander of Cameguey Province in Cuba, was arrested by Fidel Castro
and sentenced to prison for being a'traitor to the Cuban Revolution.

er 2196-28 p.3
SI_195-92196-17 encl.p.1
(4

The MRR, an underground movement formed in Cuba in mid-1959,
was composed primarily of three larger groups: (1) the ACU, under
Manuel F, Artime Buesa; (2) a military group under Major Ricardo
de la Lorie Valls; and (3) an air group, without planes, of 13
experienced pilots under Major Antonio Michel Yabor. The ACU was in
existence prior to the Castro regime as the Cuban Catholic University
(CACU) students: organization. In November, 1959, under Artime's
leadership, the majority of the CACU membership joined with the
Rebel Army Officer group to become the MRR. In February, 1950, a
coordinated. movement of anti-Castro exiles outside Cuba was formed
in Mexico and named the MRR. Artime and Lorie were joint heads of
this newly formed group. About the middle of 1960, Artime, who was
in the US, reportedly began to act without authority from the MRR
Directorate, which resulted in formation of the MRR splinter group,

(continued)

-21-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 4



cL
(continued ) iw Te

a

Cuba since: the ill-fated 4/17/61 Playa Giron invasion. /(MM 639-S), %

On 12/29/62, President John F. Kennedy visited the Orangé
Bowl Stadium, Miami, where he reviewed the returned prisoners of
Brigade 2506. He was accompanied by Jose Miro Cardona and Manuel
Artime, both of whom_were gn the speakers' stand with President
Kennedy. i 639-8). fp a

After Artime's ‘return to the US, he used his influence with
the US Government to obtain an interview with President Kennedy in
Palm Beach, Florida. He was to continue as head of the MRR. Artime
made a good appearance, spoke English, and had charmed US Government
officials who were in charge of government policy between the US
and Cuba. He was extremely ambitious and would like to be the head
of the CRC and probably the future President of Cuba. (Higinio
"Nino" Diaz, supra, 1/1/63). ey

As a result of nationwide press, radio, and television
coverage of President Kennedy's 12/29/62 activities at the Orange
Bowl, which coverage prominently mentioned Artime's name, Artime
now was better known and his position in the anti-Fidel Castro
movement was greatly increased. Generally among Cuban exiles Artime (K)

was considered young, immature, and highly ambitious, and many felt
that he would be the victim of his own publicity. pom 639-S, 1/5/63)4

Con os : |

The 1/6/63 issue of the "Miami Herald" carried an article :
entitled "Rift Develops in Invasion Brigade; 100 Boycotted JFK Here." oe
This related to boycott by Cuban Brigade 2506 (105-117331) prisoners i
of President Kennedy's 12/29/62 appearance at the Orange Bowl to i
welcome the returned prisoners. The article stated that Enrique
Llaca, Jr., recently released from Castro's prisons, singled out
Manuely Artime and Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, head of the CRC, for
criticism, declaring they were using the Brigade for their personal
benefits. Both Artime and Miro Cardona denied this. The Brigade,
under the leadership of Artime and a joint chiefs of staff, had set
up headquarters in Miami. ee e

eb (continued)

ie)
che
CN.

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 5


— ===

on) a

(continued ) -SEEREF

The 1/6/63 issue of the "Miami News", in an article
entitled "Brigade 2506 Meets Monday to Map Plans", set out the names
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the Brigade and quoted Artime as
stating: "We have fought only one battle and we are certain the :

final battle is very near."
WU
Ss

On 1/9/63,{. MM 492- Vised that 24 hours after being i
received by President Kennedy at the Orange Bowl, the group headed ;

by Enrique Llaca Orbiz appeared on Channel 10 Television, Miami.
During their appearance they stated that they were opposed to the
CRC and to Manuel Artime, chief of the Brigade. Y

105-117331-1 encl.p.2,3,6,9 |
6

Cin May, 1961 Fidel Castro offered to exchange a number of
Cuban prisoners taken during the 4/17/61 invasion attempt, for US i
tractors and spare parts for same. Eliminated from the proposed ij
tractor exchange deal were the three leaders of the invasion -
Manuel Artime, Jose San Roman and Rafael Bolivar Fuentes. The
Cuban Government proposed the exchange of Artime for Francisco
"The Hook" Molina, a pro-Castro Cuban who had been convicted of i
second-degree murder in NYC. However, this proposed exchange failed |
to materialize and in late March - early April 1962, in Havana, Cuba, Hl
the prisoners were tried before a 5-man military tribunal and con-
victed. The verdict involved heavy ransoms with the ransom for
Artime set at $500,000. Subsequently, the US carried out negotiations
for release of the prisoners and on 12/23-24/62 they all were air-
lifted to Miami. Artime, the civil representative of the CRC, re-
portedly had emerged as a focal figure in the exile community. At a
a press conference on 12/25/62, he emphasized that all the returned Hl
prisoners regarded themselves as the "troops of the Revolutionary f
Council." Artime declined to discuss the military aspects of the

abortive invasion. He said that _he d the other ransomed prisoners rac)
were determined to return to cia fe of 1/21/63, INS, Miami, was
ST

beginning to process the prisone CIA,.Miami, had contact with J
Brigade 2506 leaders Artime, Jose Perez San Roman and Eneido Oliva i

as sources of information to keep abreast igade 2506 moo
and desires, and not as "controlled agents" SH U) ree oar ae |
(bie el. +. (contimy pera
Li dia Ie, u)
oT 250 3 rdd/geh #2, ze
(fo/ae-. dee. [Sank 3
pet of bracket

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 6


(continued)

REFERENCE & SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER |

105-99200-A Washington Capital News Service, (46x
12/24/62
-A Washington Capital News Service, er
12/26/62
“te Miami Herald", (46
12/26/62
("All-Out Effort Would Topple
Castro -- Artime"; also,
"Not a Turncoat Among Them.")
(Photograph of Artime appeared
in both articles).

q
>

105-107224-A Washington Capital News Service, (48%
: 12/25/62

W)

[es 1414- reported that a meeting of anti-Castro exiles
scheduled Tor 8:307P.M., 1/27/63, at St. Patrick's Academy, 924 G
Street, N.W., Washington, DC, was to be addressed by Commandante
Manuel Artime, Cuban exile military figure who participated in the
ill-fated Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in April, 1961.- Artime,
temporarily, was in Washington with associates, including Commandante
Jose Perez San Roman, who likewise figured in the Bay of Pigs inva-

sion. U , .
109- -340
ape

. Washington Capital News Service releases, datelined Miami,
2/6/63, reported that the Cuban Brigade, which participated in the
abortive Bay of Pigs invasion, was preparing militarily to try again
to liberate Cuba, according to a statement made that day in Miami,

by Manuel Artime, Brigade leader: Artime told UPI he was speaking as
an individual and not as Secretary General of the MRR, or the
Brigade. He called on Cubans to "unify for action" and on all free

(continued)

~29-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 7


(continued)

publicize the movement on 4/11/63. He appeared to have the backing

of Manuel Artime, who had been seen with Rivero quite frequently
during the past week (place not indicated), and possibly that of -

Jose Miro Cardona, president of the CRC. Artime dealt with Miro
through Carlos Pelaez Cossio, a former senator under Gomez and

Batista (sic) and a personal confidant of both Miro and Artime ®) C

ays estate eisutas that foregoi. information was
acquired on 4/10/63 in the US (place not siven CQ) u) — £
Lies fy ot Gort

ee eee EEO a ;

30/42

Miami Office report dated 4/30/63,set out information
indicating that during January, 1963, some MRR (97-4133) functionaries
participated in unity discussions with other Cuban revolutionary
organizations. The MRR problem was complicated by the’ recent return
to the US from imprisonment in Cuba, of Manuel Artime Buesa, MRR
leader who had participated in the April, 1961.invasion attempt.
In late January, 1963, Jose Miro Cardona, head of the CRC, tried to
overthrow the MRR leadership of Artime. .Om 2/22/63, at a meeting
held by the Enrique Oviedo Leon faction of the MRR (place not indi-
cated), Artime was expelled and Oviedo was named. MRR Secretary :
General. A document (quoted) entitled "Removal.and Exp 40) if 2) ql
Dr. Manuel Artime Buesa" was made available by tge3, 48a Kes 03,9 Lal
Manuel Villamanan (protect identity), Cuban exile in Miami, said |
that Artime still was undisputed “head of the MRR; that about 75% of fl
Brigade 2506 was sympathetic with the MRR; that Erneido Oliva of
Brigade 2506 was very close to Artime and in agreement with Artime on both '
the military and political aspects of the fight against communism in
Cuba; and that the MRR was not making clandestine trips to Cuba at .

that time. (Details set out).
97-4133-60 p.1-3,5-8
eso”

The following references relate to an alleged etion fitexang

Alexander
orini, Dy

over Habana, Cuba, during +t, night of 4/25/63, in which action
'
(continued) |
{
|

Irwin Rorke, Jr. (97-4623)}-reportedly was involved. [Frank

-32-

esiessaass ee aseseeeeeeeeesessssssssssas stsaecee . ae!

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 8


(continued)

against Artime and considered him a demagogue. (,
\
109-584-3822 p.1-6
nee
SI 105-97873-18 encl.p.5
(Felipe Vidal Santiago,
fs 12/17/63).
(4497

It was reported on 1/22/64 that no further conversations
between former Nicaraguan President Luis Somoza and former Cuban
President Carlos Prio Socarras were known to have taken place con-
cerning "Operacion Centroamericana"*. This project continued to be .
at a standstill and activities of Manuel Artime, MRR leader, apparently
were not connected with it, although no open break with Prio had been
made. Artime was slowly strengthening and training a group of exiles
in Nicaragua. The MRP (105-92704) claimed that. Arti We receiving
aid from the Nicaraguan Government and from the US. a)

The Alliance of MRP - Alpha 66 - SFNE would conSider joining
forces with Artime when his organization had devglaep sufficient
strength to make an attack on Cuba feasible.\¥ &S a)

ay

(CIA, 3/9/84
peace 5-92704-9: seoa
(ae

*See CIA report, dated 11/1/63 pearing elsewhere in this summary.
(105-123568-8) u)

=

PSI Margot Pena (protect identity), a Cuban exile, advised
on 1/24/64 that supporters of Manuel Antonio-de Varona, head of the
CRC (105-107224), and of Jose Miro Cardona, would oppose Manuel :
Artime, head of the MRR, should Artime return to Cuba as head of an
anti-Castro force. Pena explained that Varona and Miro accused Artime {7}
of having betrayed them while he was in the training camp in Ouatonat ye :

(continued) |

7

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 9


ic >

Miami report dated 3/19/64, set out activities of Manuel
Artime Buesa as head of the MRR. This included Artime's travels
between the US and Nicaragua and Costa Rica; his recruiting activities
in behalf of his anti-Castro training program and including a number
of Cuban exiles recruited out of the US Army for service with h
group; the alleged grand style of living of Artime and his foll
and his operation of training. camps in Nicaragua where he report¥dt
had more than five million dollars worth of military equipment. It
was alleged that Artime was being officially sponsored and subsidized
and that he made a.living out of the revolution. In early 1964, when
the Pro-Referendum Committee was polling the Cuban exiles for a Cuban
referendum election to be held in May, Artime was reported to be
against this referendum. Reference also set out information reported
on 2/12/64 that Adelaida Padron Cruz, 681 N.E. 71st Street, Miami,
continued to be Artime's mistress and that this residence was used
by him for secret meetings.

109-584-3884 p.1,7-10,13,18
(197 6ay~

Bernardo G. De Torres (105-124552), a Cuban exile, 1440
S.W. 4th Street, Miami, advised on 4/3/64 that he was one of the
ransomed prisoners of the April, 1961 Cuban invasion and had returned
to’ the US on 12/24/62. He stated that the support of the US to the
Cuban invasion and its support to the movement of Cuban exile leader
Manuel Artime in Central America, were two events which precluded
prosecution of Cuban exiles for violation of neutrality. DeTorres
said it was general information among Cuban exiles in Miami: that
Artime and members of his organization, the MRR, were receiving US
assistance in. some manner in connection with the establishment of
training camps in Central America. vi .

103-124552-3 encl.p.9
(527

ermal CIA (62-80750) furnished information on a stric ly
confidential basis, requesting that this information not be dis
outside the Bureau. This pertained to the involvement in anti-Castro,
(fost? to mpasy o chess pel (continued)
fa by DKK UY

403 Moa]gh #241836 1M -56-

Bureau memo dated 4/9/64, advised that on eects i
seminated

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 10


C | |

As of 3/10/64, the MRR (97-4133) in the San Francisco,
Calif. area, was conducting a recruitment program for a group to
start military training within the next 2 months at an unknown
location under the leadership of Manuel Artime. (Carolina Salazar -
protect identity- MRR official and PSI under ee SC

As of 4/20/64, the Northern California MRR membership
had conducted a similar program. No further move was to be made
until word was received from Artime, following which recruits
probably would proceed to Miami for further instructions. It was
the general feeling in MRR that the US Government was supporting
Artime. (Jose Valdez - protect identity -MRR delegate). Q

97-4133-103 encl.p.1,2
(31y"

The Newark Office, on 4/16/64, reported that SOI Jose

Manuel Macias (protect identity) advised on 4/1/64 that a couple

of days previously, several members of Cuban Brigade 2506 who had
visited Washington, DC and Miami, Florida, returned to the New York
area. While in Miami they tried to see Manuel Artime but he was in
Central America. Instead, they saw Antonio Iglesia Pons, who was in
charge of military affairs for Artime. Artime did not have control
of military activities but served as a figurehead and the go-between
with the US Government. u

On 4/15/64, Macias stated that several members of the Brigade
again would go to Miami on 4/20/64, and from there to Central America
to the training camps set up by Artime. Artime was reported to have
two bases in Central America, one in Nicaragua and the other in Costa

i Rica. aw

109-584-3912
(6a9-

set out CIA's appraisal of this and other information furnished by
the Newark Office ad disseminated to CIA. According to CIA on 4/23/64,

uthu a f ‘ continue

4503 Abd eek Yani Fab xa -61-

In connection with foregoing, Bureau memo dated 4/24/64, u)

&

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 11



of
:

(continued )

Antonio Iglesia Pons was in charge of the Nicaraguan operations base
as a camp_cgmmander, but was not in charge of military affairs for
Artime >) )

Thi emo also set out information on CIA's relationship
with Artimds By

109-584-3911
(ear

TP 52-S advised that Rodrigo Calderon of Miami, Florida,
a former high ranking officer in Cuba under former dictator Fulgencio
Batista, came to Tampa on 4/25/64 and met secretly with other Batista
followers. This group met for the purpose of formulating plans of
their own in the event Fidel Castro was overthrown in the near future
by anti-Castro forces that were not followers of Batista. It was felt
that this group feared Manuel Artime and desired to formulate plans
to be able to re-enter Cuba because it was common knowledge that
some Batista supporters would be regarded as undesirables in Cuba
when Castro was thrown out. It was believed that this meeting was
held at the home of a woman doctor by the name oi Dr. Miranda.
Others present were Dr. Jose Mijares and a Dr. Santos. who worked
for Hillsborough County in Tampa. U)

~584-3914
(623-

In 1960, CIA initiated a program known under the code name
"CLIP" (105-89923), the over-all objective of which was the establish-
ment of an organization among Cuban exiles capable of replacing the
Castro government. In May; 1960, CIA’furnished the names of Cubans
making up the nucleus of the organization which would move against
Castro and which would publicly announce its existence under the
name of Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD - Revolutionary
Democratic Front) (105-87912). On 6/22/60, a manifesto was published
in Mexico City, Mexico, announcing the formation of the FRD. Directo:
of this organization who signed the manifesto and were in Mexico Cit:

Fi, bart Pal pi oh (continued) (e

intlan fred p Ps We
ba 1G Es eee
Yeo]Gar

-62-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 12


\
\
1
!
|

@ : ;
a .?
i? 4 wa H

orn
Manuel Artime Buesa was Battie the week of 5/4/64

where he met with Teodoro Picado, Costa Rican pilot who returned '
to San Jose in April, after having been jailed in Cyba for :

1
seven months. Ca YL orn ie Agpeetyo Y sla th. uJ
943,
ih
ile

Press reports indicated that on 5/13/64, the MRR issued a
communique advising of the capture of the Port of Pilon in Cuba and
demolition of a sugar mill. Manuel Artime participated. The communi- :
que was signed by Manuel Artime Buesa, Secretary General, and Rafael |
Quintero, Military Coordinator of the MRR. The raid on the sugar
refinery at Central Pilon, Oriente Province, was reported also by
CSNY 2822-S and verified by Frank McCarthy, UPI, and Julio Lubo,
former owner of Central Pilon. The following references on Artime
relate to this activity: la

REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

97-4133-99 (Setting out press release as (183 667"
furnished by Dr. Cesar Baro }
Esteva, Vice-Secretary General, t

MRR) i
| “,... -102*| (PSI Alfredo Borges, protect (7 |
identity, and duplicate:informant} ;

-A "“ffe NY Times" (633 '

S/l4/o4 p.1 i

("Cuban Exiles Say They Seized i

Port"). ft

-A Washington Capital News Service (3377 H

5/13/64 :

105-114543-126 (504
*Add. info.

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 13


XL

Whection group leade

wo my

fhe

on)s/11/64, MM 960-8 \savisea that Manuel “Artime Buesa
continued as head of the MRR which maintained headquarters at 2212

N.E. 2nd Court, Miami.
ki ti Ral Rodri, mid i, former }Comandos aa
an sier Waa iL A IC wy

dvised on\5/12/64, at as soon as repairs
were completed jon his bgat, the “Silvid ie and about 10 others
would leave ya he boa’ or Central America to join Artime. Qy cu

On 5/12/64, INS, Miami (protect identity) advised that
Artime would leave Miami on 5/12 or 13/64 for Costa Rica, his Central
American headquarters, and then go to Nicaragua where he reportedly
had military training c Artime was expected to return to the
US in about a week we iS

ai y
Add. info. “sole OS]
B56 | "e/a
ead 109-584-3976 p.8,9 .
(195034

sr as par. 2
105-117222-182 encl.p.3,4
(add. info.)

(1250)

Alberto Oms Barreto, a former member of Brigade 2506 which
participated in the April, 1961 invasion of Cuba, advised on 4/2/64,
that he had made a trip to Washington, DC and Miami, Florida in mid-
March, 1964, and.had talked to representatives of Brigade 2506. Oms
stated that leaders of Brigade 2506 in the Miami area were not con-
templating doing anything at the present time in a military way to
overthrow Fidel Castro: Most of them were not in sympathy with
Manuel Artime Buesa who formerly was the civilian head of Brigade
2506. Oms stated that some former members of Brigade 2506 had gone
with Artime and Artime was reported to have military camps in 7
Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Artime currently was the head of the MRR
and was reported to be preparing for raids and guerrilla activity in
Cuba in the immediate future. Lb

On 5/13/64, CSNY 2822-S advised that his niece (not further
identified) recently had a letter from Joaquin Godoy of the MRP. Godoy!

(¢ontinueda)

~68-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 14


(continued 109-584-3949)

REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

article entitled "Cuban Forays
Indicate’ 2 Units: Plan Strikes",
from the 5/16/64 issue of the
"Washington Evening Star")

109-584-A Press Release for 5/22/64
column of Fulton Lewis, Jr.
for King Features Syndicate, Inc.

"The Washington Post and Times Herald", 5/30/64, p.B-7,
in an article entitled "Cuba's Oil Refineries 'Off Limits'" in
Jack Anderson's "Washington Merry-Go-Round" column, reported that
these orders regarding the refineries were issued to Cuban Commandos
by CIA. An aide to Cuban exile leader Manuel Artime had explained
to this column: "We don't want to damage foreign property." A year
before, Artime had complained to this column that CIA had cut the
allowance for his freedom fighters down to a token $1000 a month.
He hadn't complained Sa

97-4133-A, "The Washington Post
TS /ao/ek Herald"
5/30,
(3377

CIA (protect identity) advised on 5/14/64 that the MRR was
not a CIA operation. CIA at the direction of "Special Group" had
been furnishing support.to the MRR and its leader, Manuel Artime, and
had been maintaining liaison with him on ar on basis. CIA dis-

claimed control over the MRR and Artime. .)
On 6/17/64,[Gordon (Rock) Rothwell|(protect identity), $)
Covert CIA Representative, Miami, Florida identified Angel Alfre

Fontanills Y Miguel (105-129278) as being connected with Manuel
Artime and the MRR.

ot

105-129278-3 p.1,2;encl.p.3

[het 9 pln i | ps (Slr
; e iS) i

pie obd ck fH, he ¥ clad
refer

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 15


(continued): Vie &

Information from Mesa, developed through[his interpreter, James A.
Kraker](protect identity) of Crystal, Minnesota, indicated that as Ga)
of Degémber, 1963, the MRR was reported to be sending a 5-man team
into Cuba once a month for the purpose of assasSination, with Fidel

and Raul Castro and Che Guevara as the principal targets. Communi- ¥

cations. between Cuba and the US-allegedly were through clandestine
Short wave radio. Mesa returned to Minneapolis on 1/5/64, from a .
visit to Miami where he failed to see Artime who was in Puerto. Rigo.
Mesa advised (Kraker that Artime probably would spend more time ine
Venezuela in 1964.™ According to [Kraker,] the MRR in the Twin Cifie

area was.disbanded in July, 1964,-upon Orders of Manuel Artime NY
REFERENCE i SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER
9T-4133-77 Lnsey~

-82 ee

-83 IT

-84 encl.p.2 7

-92 encl.p.1,2 3.

-134 3

Cuban exiles were saying that the US was providing a steady
flow of aid to the MRR which was led by Manuel Artime Buesa. Some
exiles claimed that the MRR attack on Puerto Rilon in May. 1964, was
launched from the Dominican Republic. There was no evidence that
Artime was receiving support from the Venezuélan Government. His
failure to establish personal contact with the Venezuelan Administra-
tion during his 5/22-27/64 visit to Caracas, had provoked criticism
in government circles. Some disillusionment with the MRR was said
to be caused by Artime's failure to establish himself as thé
puted leader of the militant exile forces. (CIA, Aeron BS

: A

During an interview on 10/22/64, John Ermil Freeman
(105-109596), 2728 S.W. 24th Avenue, Coconut Grove, Miami, intimated

(continued )

7
y

dis -

(4)
109-584-4034 ENERUELA
(ee (bo eseneys Tefath,

fly

@

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 16


(continued)

placing himself in absolute control without heeding the ideological
postulates of the movement; and his failyre.to live up to the stand-
ards he had set up for the organization. u)

The "Miami News", Miami, Florida, 7/5/64, reported that.
on the previous day, Artime ordered all his men to report to South
American training camps immediately. \,

On 7/9/64, M.H. Redmon (protect identity), INS Investigator,
Miami, advised that the MRR had closed its Miami headquarters and
moved to Central America, but had established a secret underground
office somewhere in Miami. On 6/4/64, Redmon stated that numerous
MRR members went to Central America to join Artime during July, 1964
and that the MRR claimed it would move all of its records and
equipment out of Miami by chartered airplane to Artime's headquarters
in Central America. The MRR had a large ship that operated between
Central America and New Orleans, Louisiana. The ship, name unknown,
was operated by a cover company using letterhead stationery containing
the following: "Maritima Bom, S.A., Coconut Grove Bank Building, Suite
309, Miami, Florida, Phone # 444-5781-82." This company also claimed
to have Post Office boxes in P, wand Nicaragua. Sixto Mesa was

listed as President (ay Fe
(= Zen Tats letter did Yor, Be03Adafge® 3u13>e Yo/3

On 7/28/64, Carlos Zarraga Martinez (protect identity), PSI
under development, advised that the rank and file MRR members continued
to severely criticize Artime for maintaining his mistress, Adelaida
Padron Cruz. She reportedly had great influence over Artime and some
of his decisions concerning the MRR's operations had been influenced
by her and objected to by the general membership

On 8/18/64, Miguel Dotres, 8418 N.w, 2 Avenue, Miami,
advised that in late March or early April, 1964, Aldo Vera Serafin,
head of an anti-Castro organization (not further identified), con-
ferred with Artime and brought his organization into Artime's organ-
ization. Dotres furnished information indicating that Artime was
against Baro's proposal that the MRR be headed by a 7-man board; also.
that the Cuban exile community doubted that Artime was a factor which
eventually would figure in the overthrow of the present Cuban Govern-

ment. X

97-4133-115 encl.p.1-8
(5332 ; :

(continued)

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 17


C

Cc)

“SECRET

In early October, 1964, the Alliance of the MRP - SFNE
(105-112098) - Alpha 66 Cuban exile group was planning to initiate
armed action in Cuba and its paramilitary organization had been moved
from the US (place not indicated) to prepare for infiltration of Cuba.
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, military leader of the Alliance, had issued
strict instructions that there should be no collaboration at any
level with the MRR or the JURE during the process of infiltration.
Gutierrez had no faith in the ability or willingness of Manuel Artime
or Manuel Ray to adhere to a joint infiltration program. Once in "
Cuba, however, limited tactical collaboration would be éncourased. CX) 7)

A delegation of the MRR, headed by Artime, was expected to
arrive in Caracas in early October to seek support from the Venezuelan

Government ua) Gu and. f
Ge Ko. revel AU) cheep 19, (u'
(ag ayaa ieee BAC.

ubel4z

On 10/24/64, Firmin Joseph, representative of a group of
Haitian exiles dedicated to the overthrow of Dictator Francois
Duvalier, said that the schedule for an invasion of Haiti would be
“forthcoming after the US elections. Joseph said that a house in
northwest Miami, which currently was being used to billet some of his
men, was visited recently by a Cuban whom Jos believed was from
Manuel Artime Buesa's group, the MRR. (CIA) u)

2-1622-273 p.2
(esy

Carlos Zarraga Martinez (protect identity), Key Source -
Cuba,/ 2954 S.W. 16th Terrace, Miami, Florida, who was attempting to
form a unity group,Jadvised on 12/1/64 that the political activities
of this group would be to offset the "right wing conservatism" of
Manuel Artime Buesa,.

As of mid-December. 1964, Artime continued to head the
MRR. Some exiles felt that recent scandals (not further identified)

(continued)

-79-

He z stiniansinsse)

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 18


(>

ic

(continued) -SEGREF

in Costa Rica involving Artime had discredited the anti-Castro move-
ment, which might result in the withdrawal of support of Cuban exiles
by the American people and the US Government. (No source given).
s CA
Add. info.
a
109-584-4114 p.3,4,8
(1836397

Robert Dennis Arrington (105-96912) of Los Angeles, a US
citizen. who had entered Nicaragua on 12/8/64, was arrested by
Nicaraguan officials on 12/17/64 for alleged possession of illegal
arms and plotting the overthrow of the Nicaraguan Government. He
had come to the attention of Nicaraguan authorities when he tried
to make contact in Managua with anti-Castro Cubans in an attempt
to interest them in buying the arms he was carrying. In Managua, .
at the Gran Hotel (date not indicated) Arrington met an unnamed
Cuban who promised to take him to see Manuel Artime who was expected
momentarily; however, this Cuban never came back to see Arrington.

ly
Foregoing information on Artime is covered in the following
references: © (A

REFERENCE : SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER
97-4948-7 p.12 (349°
105~-81431-12 p.12 or
105-96912-9 p.9 (hae

u\
On La/i/o4, MM 639-8 a vised that the MRR (97-4133) con-
tinued to be hdéaded by Manuel Artime Buesa, a Cuban exile doctor who
traveled continuously in the US, Central America and the Caribbean. \y

On 12/10/64, MM 639-S advised that different Cuban exile
leaders continued to claim that Artime and: the MRR were making a livi

(continuea)

-80-

a

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 19


. : ia
Cc Bea
(continued) “Sttrep

off the Cuban revolutionary activities; were engaged in smuggling
instead of anticommunist warfare; and were misappropriating funds
designed for commando and infiltration activity against the present
government of Cuba. MM 639-S continued that it was claimed that
Artime's men returned from Central America very disenchanteg, or
with large sums of money earned through illegal activity. U)

According to reports from the Costa Rican newspaper "La
Nacion", there was a training camp in Costa Rica, and in November
1964, Customs Authorities found Cubans smuggling large shipments of
whiskey from Panama into Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Santiago Alvarez
Rodriguez (protect identity), Miami, a Cuban exile and leading figure
in the MRR, advised on 12/17/64, that after the November scandals
concerning the alleged smuggling activities of the MRR, Artime reportedly
visited with Costa Rican President Francisco J. Orlich (place not
indicated). The MRR claimed that Orlich signed a declaration exonerating |
the MRR from all allegations concerning that organization's activities :

and smuggling. cs : i
97 -4133-123 encl.p.1,2,4
(ay

According to reported comments of Fulgencio Batista y
Zaldivar (62-70441) as of mid-January 1965 had not been le

contact with Manuel Artime Buesa. . (CIA). (3 UV een Agncays 7 5 hs Lis Ly lu)
A i

62-70441-270 p.2

Ac t

At the request of the Department of State the Bureau con-
ducted an investigation of an attack on the Spanish vessel "Sierra ‘
Aranzazu" (2-1877) on 9/13/64, off the eastern tip of Cuba. It was aa
alleged that this attack was carried out by representatives of a
group receiving US backing, known as the MRR and headed by Manuel Hl
Artime. The Secret Organization of Continental Action (OSAC) initially
claimed responsibility for the attack. Newspaper accounts indicated t
that Artime denied responsibility for the raid and in a statement from
Panama suggested the Castro government was responsible in an attempt.
to discredit the MRR. On 10/5/64, Rolando Masferrer Rojas, 42-46

TP 3 ow this pg. AAD 15) Baneltee.
in 4. 82 1s leinss mdb poe te ae
abp Dept, terme Dw 5490-97 |

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 20


G8 8

On 2/23/65, the New York Office advised that on a oeGRER

1/26/65, NY 4533-S furnished information that the Soviet Intelligence
Service in the US wanted to obtain any information available on the
organizations: (1) Alfa 66; (2) Movimento Revolucionario Popular;

(3) Movimento Renosadoz Revolucionario; and (4) Representacion
Cubana En El Exilio. New York advised that the Movimiento Renosadoz
Revolucionario might be identical with. the Movimienfo Reguperacion
Revolucionario (MRR) headed by Manuel Artime Buesa WL

105-}37715-2 enc{Tp.
(ase

PSI Gerardo Soler, Tampa, Florida, advised that on 3/6/65,
Pedro Jose Leal Flores (105-141019) and some of his friends went to
Miami to try to see the military commander of RECE*, whose name was
believed to be Oliva, and also to try to see Manuel Artime, leader
of the MRR. The reason for this trip was not known, but Soler said
he believed that Leal wanted to associate the Porfirio Ramirez H
Brigado Comando #1 with one of the larger anti-Castro oresntastiond QVAY

This reference stated that Leal was leader of the anti-
Castro organization known as the Porfirio Ramirez .Brigado Comando #1,
a group of young Cubans who had received Army training at Fort Jackson
South Carolina and who met weekly in Tampa at 1515-10th Avenue. .

cor)

*Representation of Cubans in Exile. '

On 3/1/65, MM 639-S¥ad 4) that Cuban exiles were dis- ’
couraged frustrated with the failures of exile leaders like
Manuel Artime Buesa, who had been ineffective. and would have to
discontinue military operations in the near future. a

As of mid-March, 1965, Manuel Artime Buesa continued as
head of the MRR and traveled extensively in the US, Latin America,
and Europe. He was criticized severely by other anti-Castro leaders,

(Continued)

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 21


C

CJ

On 5/20/65, Nilo Messer, 27 N.W. 47th Street, Miami, advised
that he had been Manuel Artime Buesa's secretary and as such traveled
thousands of miles with Artime in the US, South.. America and Europe.
He said that he was planning to leave this secretarial position and
had obtained another job. AWN

On 7/23/65, PSI Angel Yerga (protect identity), a Cuban
exile who traveled frequently in Central America, advised that
Artime continued as head of the MRR (97-4133). About two weeks
previously both Yerga and Artime were in Nicaragua. However, the
MRR then had no offices or operations in that country. Yerga heard
from Cuban exiles in Nicaragua that the MRR reportedly had two
unidentified airplanes available to them in Panama. However, there
was no indication that the MRR planned any raids against Cuba either
by using these planes or an operation by sea. 1A)

General Luis Somoza in Nicaragua tofd Yerga that. Artime's

operations there had been eliminated almost cpmp. ly because of
the US Government's attitude toward the MRR. (W)

On 7/23/65, CIA, Miami (protect identity) Lae that
organization no longer had ap'operational interest in the MRR or its

leader, Manuel Artime Buesa. Qe agence IS Ta: £m - YK) »
U) 97-4133-143 p.l;encl.p.1,2
) (93377
SI as par.1
97 -4133-139
(327

SI as tae 1 and 2
109-584 -H272 -p.1,6,7
(Garey: |

On 7/23/65, PSI Angel Yerga advised that the MRR (97-4133)
continued to receive money from CIA and that Manul Artime Buesa was
reorganizing the MR.

Add. info.

97-4133-141
(apt er

-88-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 22


P

On 7/29/65, WF isas}s advised that Concepcion Maria
Fernandez Planas* (105-9 OlJ had been married for a couple of months

to a Cuban exile named Alfredo Cepero, a lawyer -who was. believed to

be employed in Virginia. During the first days of the Castro regime,
she had dated Jose Machado Ventura, who served as Castro's Minister

of Public Health in Cuba. At one time (date not indicated) Fernandez
also dated Manuel Artime of the.f d Brigade 2506 which had invade

Cuba during April of 1961. WF{L6834S was aware that Artime had

traveled to Washington, DC for the ‘sole purpo: of visiting Fernandez

at her residence (address not given). WF ieea}s stated that CeperofeS]
was extremely jealous and he was almost certain that Fernandez had

not revealed her past association with Machado and Artime to revere (Ge)

105-98201-13 encl.p.2
(45 :

*Cuban National employed at- the Pan American Union, Washington, DC.
(see 105-98201-8), (a (u

Documents furnished by OACSI-Army included a G-2 USARSOUTHCOM
report advising that en unnamed source who was Chief of the Presidential
Guard, Republic of Panama (RP), indicated on 8/16/65, that source had
been visited in his home, on both the preceding Friday and Saturday,
by Cuban revolutionary Manuel Artimes. Source said that Artimes was
a friend of General Somoza, Chief Director of the Nicaraguan National
Guard, and of source's sister-in-law, Mrs. Yolanda de Corrales; also,
that Artimes knew source's brother-in-law, Lt. Gumberto Corrales,
Assistant to General Somoza. Artimes, who had been unable to contact
President Robles, asked source to confidentially inform the President
that a conspiracy was being planned for the purpose of assassinating
the Presidents of Nicaragua, Costa Rica and the RP: Files of the
470th INTC Group, Fort Amador, Canal Zone, revealed background data
on Manuel F. Artimes Buesa, born 1/29/32, Camaguey Province, Cuba.

His father was shown as Manuel Artimes F. and his mother as Otilla

B. de Artimes. It was suspected that Artimes’ wanted to meet President
Robles to obtain from him a letter of introduction, for unknown
reasons, to Jack Vaughan, former US Ambassador to RP and present US
Assistant Secretary of State.

tinued
ARMY Info (LAST iP) nce ASSIFED (continued)

pea. ere, Dd. rofl se
Spoasaftrci.~ topofan— Paar Bab :
Ste Iqo-1,dd 4-28 Sot ¥89-

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 23


(continued)

operating from Paul's Barber Shop, Palms Plaza, 16772
South Dixie Highway, Perrine, Florida. This involved
barbers Lestegas and Pablo Emilio Moncada Luna, sub- ©
ject of Bureau file # 105-136705, who were alleged to
have mentioned tentative plans to assassinate Artime,
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and. Pedro Diaz Lanz. (See
105-136704-1). Uy

Luis Posada (protect identity), former member of JURE
(105-114543), 750 N.W. 15th Street, Miami, advised on 9/23/65 that
general opinion of the Cuban exiles strongly indicated that both
Manuel Ray of JURE and Manuel Artime, MRR leader, no longer were
regarded as important figures in the anti-Castro movement .(_,

105-114543-261 p.10
(5097

_PSI Cira Olga Montano Lezcano (134-14494) was interviewed
on 11/12/65, at Opa-locka Processing Center, Opa-locka, Florida.
Montano indicated that she came to Miami from New York in about mid-
1962. It was in Miami that she met her second husband, Ernesto
Martinez Dominguez, where they both were active in the anti-Castro
group of Manuel Artime Buesa who was a personal friend of hers. At
the meetings of this group, she gave first aid classes for a period
of two weeks in 1963. In October, 1965, Montano and her husband made
a trip to Cuba in an effort to bring relatives out of Cuba. While
there, she was approached by the Cuban Government to engage in .
intelligence activities in the US on behalf of Cubans. Included with a
information she was expected to report was any information concerning
Artime and his activities. In Cuba, she was introduced to a man named
"Orlando" whom she recognized as a man who was in Miami during 1962
and 1963, working with Artime's group. She and her husband departed
Cuba for Miami on 11/8/65. Montano said her husband had told her the
Cuban Government might have had reason to beligve he was a CIA agent,

because at one time he had worked for Artim Viger aseneya hy ls i
13451442 UG Ms y |
lex 657 ;

oe -92-

CSessesensseseaea

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 24


Ria :

CIA communication dated 6/15/66,furnished a letter dated
3/18/66, from Gilberto Navarro R, a resident of San Pedro Sula,
Honduras, Central America, to Manuel Artime, Director of the Cuban
Revolutionary Front in Exile, Miami, Florida. This letter advised
Artime to get in contact with the CIA to deport from Los Angeles,
Calif. 3 Sisters, Nora, Oneyda and Marina Amaya Cabrera, and to
order the American Consul in San Pedro Sula to cancel the visa of
another sister, Lila Amaya Cabrera V de Lopez, who planned to trans-
fer her residency to Los Angeles. Navarro said these sisters were
first cousins of the dangerous international communist, Eliceo Mejia
Cabrera o Rovelo (105-129943) who was located in Havana, Cuba,

agence 7s) Loe,

Gn

i)
(Copy of letter and of trans aA
from Spanish attached)

1055129943 -3

(La

ek 5 ey ’
fisuads advised that on 3/28/66)\he learned from the wife:
of Carlo ‘eperino that he had been put in Charge. by Manuel Artime, of
the contact and interview with Rolando Cubelas* in Paris. This woman
stated that she saw Felipe Llaudy in company with Pepin Naranjo
eres to be a great Fidelista) together with Cubelas in Paris (sic).
No further details).

. 1
This reference identified Felipe Llaudy as.an official of
the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations and a known intelligence agent(

(agp? P10- sia encl.p.2 ie
(

*In early March. 1966, Rolando Cubela Secades was on trial in Cuba,
charged with plotting to assassinate Fidel Castro. (See 109-12-210-5407),°-

On 6/22/66, Felipe Rivero Diaz, head of the Cuban Nationalist
Association, charged that if the US Government had its way, it would
install propagandists Conte Aguero and Dr. Manuel Artime as the next
rulers of Cuba. (Source not clear).

109-584-4409 p.ll

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 25


YL 104: 584- “yols
oo

“HI ps

Wf 2 : HIG a da
c

-Y292 pe Bie Brie

Hee yee o py

eH L104 b50-

opftoy TO /34- 7c I ps

|
L
|
|
|

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 26


— 104- 59y- A. Miami Neal

“A Man Hani W/E

Clegaad Jaovstonts fu Cetin a
Lazfey

Gn aw CARD! TAH

AZ |09- b3b- 2
: pl a aE 652- 4}
We,

aa DDE 13°9- 210" 3)

shi “Wj

LE f : 7 ;
Z ro L/34- 424-1 p3

NW 65360 Docld:32303569 Page 27
