# docid-34517461

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

11/05/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD

NUMBER

: 194-10012-10003

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ZF000003W - PAGE

5

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

: DOBIN, R. W.

TO :

TITLE : RETURNED BRITISH DEFECTOR FROM THE DDR

DATE: 12/17/57

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

BRITISH COUNSEL

ROBERTS, G

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

***

***

***

* *

*W*

* I*

*T*

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

*D*

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

*R*

OPENING CRITERIA :

* 4*

COMMENTS : THE REVIEW BOARD VOTED THAT THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT

* WI*

BELIEVED RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATIN OF PRESIDENT *A*

KENNEDY.

* I*

*C*

*A*

*R*

Released under the John F. Kennedy

*Ip*

Rosassination Records Collection &ct of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

64954 Diate: 09-22-2022

***

** *

* * *

[R]

--—

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 64954 Docld:34517461 Page 1

---

## Page 2

To:

CONFRENTIAL

HEADQUARTERS

BRITISH ARMY OF THE RHINE

BRITISH FORCES POSI OFFICE 40

Tele:

RHINE ARMY

Ext:

2805

Ref:

B 4089/96 Int

17. Dec 57.

(12 copies)

6:136

G.I.

Copy to:

The Under Secretary of State,

The War Office MI 11,

LONDON, S.W.1.

Headquarters,.

British Services Security Organisation,

British Forces Post Office 40

(2 copies)

Headquarters,

Joint Services Liaison Organisation,

Villa Spiritus,

BONN,

BAOR 19

(2 copies)

British Liaison Officer

G2 HQ USAREUR,

71 Field Security Section (Please return enclosure to this HQ).

A (PS)..

SUBJECT: -

widowed UDOLPH, Anna Frieda,

born 29 April 1915 at RANHARD SERE, Kreis

DIPPOLDISWALDE, 2fe of

23221/15. Pte

ROBERTS G, returned

British defector from the DDR..

Reference 'A' B 4089/96 dated 6 Nov 57 enclosing British Int Pool,

BERLIN, Interrogation Report dated

23 Oct 57.

'B' B 4088/1 Int dated 6 Dec 57 (to G2 HO USAREUR only).

"C' Int I dated 040900z Dec 51.

Herewith copies of British Intelligence Pool BERLIN report referençe

BRIP/0/11/354 dated 9 Dec 57.

Subject arrived in WEST BERLIN

on 1 Dec 57 and contacted the British

Consul there, requesting a British Passport for the purpose

of travelling to the

United Kingdom.

She was given DM 5 per day to enable her to live at the Bahnhofs Mission

British Vice - Consul informed her that he could no longer con -

tinue paying this

sum and that if she wished to remain in PIST BERLIN she would

have to report to

MARIENFELDE. Refugee Camp.

HE BERLIN has informed this HQ that

subject has done this, and

that the British Military Authorities are accepting

no responsibility for

4.

In view

of the contents of the attached report (see in particular Paras

13 and 15) and

previous interrogation reports,

this H0 would definitely advise

against any assistance or recognition being siven to subject and in particular

that she should not be allowed enirit the United King.on.

7o six months imprisennantand

Pte ROBERTS was tried by Court Martial at CHESTER on 12 Dec and sentenced

to be discharged with ignominy.

5

(R.7.

DOBIN

lajor~General

of

Staff

NW 64954 Docld:34517461 Page 2

---

