# docid-32324525

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90029-10017

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-405298-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO :

DL

TITLE :

DATE:

03/03/1954

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

THOMAS R. PEASNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS : MEMO;

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56754 Date: 09:22.2022

v9.1

AW 66754 Docld:32324525 Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

4-n1t

SAC, Da1l08

Diréctor, FBI (100-405298)

THOLAS F.

PEASNER

SECURITY MATTER • C

RECAP I,

PART II

March 3, 1954

Glasg"

Declass. y on

+11715-94

SEK)

TION COSTARS

CLASSIFIEN

ALL

Tolson

Ladd.

Nichols.

Belmont

Cleg8-

Glavin-

Harbo

Rosen.

Tracy

Gearty

Mohr.

Winterrowd _

Tele. Room -

Holloman

Miss Gandy -

of the interrogation of returned

prisoners of war; G2

has advised that captioned individual

apparently cooperated with the Communists and is considered

a security riske

subject was & Private First Class assigned

Serial Number R4-18323089 and according to army records,

his home address is 4943 Reiger Street, Dallas, Teras.

(U)

There is attached for your information one

Photostat of an extract from @ Weekly Summary of Domestic

Intelligence dated June 28, 1953, prepared by G-2,

Fort

Sam Houston, Texas, which contains infornation concerning

subject.

Bufiles reflect that A-2 has advised that auring

the interrogation of avid W. Ludlow, U.S. Army Serial

Number 19361682, he listed under the heading

"Number of

progressives" the name Thomas Peasner und stated in reference

to subject "it worked for aun benefit. (U),

(100-400646-11 page 1406)

of lany Americon whe sated in e pro-communist manner before

capture."

He listed Thomas Peasher and stated "Heard that

his father hos been run out of a few stotes,

(100-400646-12 page

The nome Thomas L..

address book of francis J. Mosnicka, Route 4,

Tomah,

Wiscon's in,

also a returned prisoner

of war.

A

security

investigation is presently being

conducted

concerning

Mosnicka due to his collaboration.with the

enemy while

held as a prisoner.

In this

address

book,

Peasher's

address. is, listed as Route

or 4616 Gaston Avenue Dallas

Bo Botnl66D' It is noted that

Lancester,

Texas,

these two addresses do notedl

with the address.

furnished by the Army.

(200-407994-1) 2X +106

closure

COMM - FBI

MAR 3

183

2, Qa

MAILED 21

NW 66754 Docld:32324525 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEET

G-2 has aduised that during the interrogation

of Kinthrop B. Hibberd

Army Serial Number 19360997J home )

1228 South Lane Street, Burbank, Colifornia,

Boreralsteted that Peasner visited camp officials

frequently while

a prIsoner.

For your information, the

interrogation of Hibberd indicated that Hibbero o150.

collaborated with the Communists while héld as a prisoner.

(100-408384-1)

Kenneth Do Heithomp, former prisoner of war who

now resides ot Route 5, Menononie, Wisconsin, alleged that

Thomas R. Peasner was one of several prisoners who visited

with camp officials frequently, received better treatment

than other prisoners, received special instructions and

training, apparently belleved in the "true value" of

Communism and voluntarily ottended study group meetings.

It was the opinton of Heitkanp that Peasner, among others,

did not support Conmunisn merely to gain personal favors.

Heitkomp also alleged that Peosner, onong others, collaborated

with camp officials by supplying answers to any ond all

questions, acted as informants and reported all incidents

to the camp authorities as a motter of loyalty to the comp

authorities..

He alleged that Peasner was one of several

prisoners who had pro-communist leanings and reflected

their leanings by applying themselves and cooperating with

the enthese.

(100-407808-1)

Heyne E. Hubener, Army Serial Number 1196288, also

a former prisoner of var, aduised that thomes l. Peasner,

who

come fron teras, was one of a group of prisoners who said

that we (the United states) started the war.

He advised that

in December, 1951,

Peaster was having trouble with his feet

and thereafter deliberately froze his feet by placing them

in a snowbark at niaht untu gangrene set ano.

100-407977-1

Frank J. Page, Army Serial Number 13163949, oduised

that Thomes B. Peasner was one of several prisoners of wor

who appeared to have leanings toward Communism and who

appeared to be sincere.

(100-407329-1)

Robert E. Brooks; Army Seriol Number 17364305;

stated that (INU) Peasner was

one of the prisoners who was

very active in attempting to influence other prisoners.

Although Brooks did not specifically stote what type of

influence he meant, he indicated that it was influence along

progressive lines.

He stated that Peasner was selected by

the Chinese for his pro-Communist leanings to be on the

peace committee ot Camp l. He was also selected by the

SE

NW 66754 Docld:32324525 Page 3

---

## Page 4

chinese as a leadera

one of the prisoner ho vent for els

сапр

and

canp officials

and

who collaborated with then.

Hiroshi H. Miyonuro, Army Serial Number 38584192,

advised that he hod

heard that Peasner had studied Communism

prior to his copture.

He alleged that Peasner voluntarily

made recordings for

which he was paid Chinese money.

George Jo Motto

J01s0

returned prisoner of war,

aduised Thomas Reasmer, of Peasner, possibly identical

with the subject, was an American

comp

who attempted to indoctrinate other Anerican prisonera to

accept the conmunist propagando program.

(100-100290)

in the report of Special Agent i.

D

Nelan dated

October 2, 1944, ot Little Rock, Arkansas, captioned

"Communist Infiltration of United Steel Workers of America,

CIO, Internal Security - C,

"reference is made to one Thomas

Peosner of pallas, Teras, who may possibly be related to

captioned subjeet.

source "A" identified as J. G. Hood,

manager of the Texarkano Water Corporation, State

Line

street, exorkano, Arkansas, eduised thet the only person

that could be suspected of having Conmunistic tendencies

is the union

representative of the United Steel Workers

0f

America, CIO,

Thomas Peasner, whose headquarters at that

stated that in speaking for the union

time was 3204 Commerce Street, Dalla in a demand for

The source

higher wages, Peasner made the impression that he wos a

professional agitator who cared little for the members of

the union but was out to "feether his oun nest."

(100-62018-555)

On the basis of information quatlable, the Bureau

is of the opinion that a security investigation should be

conducted providing this subject has been discharged from

the military service.

You are instrueted to promptly

determine whether Peasner hos

been discharged and promptly

aduise the Bureau.

If he has been discharged, you should

immediately initiate a security investigation.

In this

connection, you should be guided by the instructiona

contained in SAC Letter 53-58.

SECRE

NW 66754 Docld:32324525 Page 4

---

