JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

12/10/97

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

CSF/INSCOM
194-10006-10313

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

: AC640653W-PAGE 49

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

USA
[ RESTRICTED ]

: AGENT REPORT

02/04/72

1

KAMINSKI, HANS D
[ RESTRICTED ]
JOHN THE DEE JAY
GENERAL NUISANCE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED
3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Caset:Nw
-20

NW 64954 Docld:34530607 Page 1


AGENT REPORT

For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Stoff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED

4 February 1972

| ‘3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

REPORT OF FINDINGS:

u —

@) On 1 February 1972, Phillip W. May, PFG, {®t § '9) (7) Custodial
Agent, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (108424), Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place
of duty concerning an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest,
and Ba substantially as follows:

wy

(g) About two or three weeks ago, Source was approached by a man that
identified himself as John the Dee Jay in the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln.
John said that he was the Dise Jockey at the Lord Nelson, another bar in
Datteln. With Source at the Stadtschaenke were John Stelpflug, John lukasik,
and Terry Drivis (PHONETIC). John the Dee Jay made a general nuisance of
himself. He talked about security at the site and gave verbally a list of
telephone numbers he claimed were security information telephone numbers in
Heidleberg (MV7773), FRG, and other cities in FRG. Source was unable to
recall any of the telephone numbers John the Dee Jay mentioned. John asked
Source who the Security Sergeant of the unit was. He also asked about persons
who had been formerly assigned to the unit. Source was not familiar with
any of the names mentioned as Source has been at the unit only a short time.
John talked about how, if he was a spy, he would get information fram people.
Source felt that John the Dee Jay was trying to make him and the others
nervous. John spoke fluent English and German and claimed that he could
speak Russian, Source described John as follows:

Height: Six feet to six feet one inch

Weight: 200-210 pounds

Age: 27-28 years old

Build: Solid

Dress: Wore furry coat and shoes, possibly camel hair

Source had not met John the Dee Jay before and had not seen or had contact
with him since and gave negative responses to all questions posed by him.

‘5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

FORM
1 apR 52 REPLACES WD AGO

NW 64954 Docld:34530607 Page 2

