# docid-34517503

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date :

Page

11/05/98

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/ CSF

: 194-10013-10463

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

ZF400026W - PAGES 419-438

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE : CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

DATE : 02/17/61

PAGES : 20

SUBJECTS : CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

MEMBERS OF CUBAN CONSULATE

ANTI-CASTRO FORCES

PERSONS IN MIAMI AREA WHOSE ACTIVITIES INDICATE

POSSIBLE CONNECTION W/CUBAN INTELLIGENCE

ARTURO PLUTARCO FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO Y DIAZ

FERREIRO, LIDIA

SOTO, HECTOR RICARDO GARCIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED.

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW FOR RELEASABILITY

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH THE FBI FOR RELEASABILITY

DETERMINATION HAS BEEN COMPLETED:

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-204 (RIV. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SEGRET

Copy to:

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

1 - OSI, MacD111 Air Force Base, Tampa, Florida (RM)

Report of:

Date:

WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN

Ofice: Miami, Florida

Field Office File #:

FEB 1 7 1961

105-1998

Bureau File #s 105-80787

Title:

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

24014981

Character: INTERNAL SECURITY • CUBA

Synopsis:

N

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK FORCE.

81388dos

operations under G-2. Miami, Key West and New York

of G-2 agents who maintain contact with Consulates but

are not a part of them. Members of Cuban Consulate,

Miami, considered acts of sabotage and terroris in

U.S. to be blamed on anti-CASTRO forces. Also met with

RELEASE IN FULL

HELEASE IN PART

two Cubans who offered to turn over information from

TOTAL DENAL

files of FRD to Cuban Government. Following break of

diplomatic relations on 1/3/61, five members of Consulate

returned to Cuba, three remained in U.S. Brief summary

of information concerning persons in Miani area whose

activities indicate possible connection with Cuban

Intelligence set forth.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668.

9-4-48

SLOKSIL

•Р..

DEGLAGSIFY ON: 25X.

(JFK).

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

-т!!

EX' LUDED IRIM AT MAIC REGRADING:

DO.. OIK

-00.10 DOE

N. T APPLY

CA706 GOR 140:00

i ASSIFIER

-DiTOUWISE

" WHERE SHOWN

SECRET

138482

"UMBET

your aoney grate contant er not no be die router use pot a one, le a tha proporty of the FBi and la loaned to

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1998

TABLE OF CONTENTS,

Page

I. INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES OF THE CUBAN

GOVERNMENT AND THEIR OPERATIONS

IN THE UNITED STATES..............

II. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN

CONSULATE, MIAMI, FLORIDA..

III. PERSONS IN MIAMI AREA WHOSE ACTIVITIES

INDICATE POSSIBLE CONNECTION WITH

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE..

A. ARTURO PLUTARCO FERNANDEZ DE

CASTRO Y DIAZ.

B. LIDIA FERREIRO.

• C. HECTOR RICARDO GARCIA SOTO.

D. EDUARDO SIMEON JANEIRO

RODRIGUEZ.

E. RAMON RIVERA ARAGUEZ

2

7.

9

9

10

12

15

17

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

420÷

138482

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-1998

I. • INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT

AND THEIR OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES.

RICARDO ANIBAL MORALES NAVARRETE, Apartment 2,

1541 Southwest 4th Street, Miami, Florida, informed on

December 5, 1960, that he entered the United States at

Miami on November 29, 1960, and has requested political

asylum because he fears for his life should he be forced

to return to Cuba. He said he was a member of the Cuban

Army GoL from December 10, 1959, until the latter part

of July, 1960. In addition to information concerning

his own

information concerning the organization and personnel

of the Cuban G-2:

MORALES informed that G-2 is under the control

of the Ministerio de Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarios ARDED

(Ministry of Revolutionary Armed Forces),(MINFAR) •

RAUL, CASTRO is the head of MINFAR. He said that all

intelligence work was being controlled directly by G-2

since January, 1960, when there was a reorganization of

all intelligence and Investigative organizations. The

Department of Investigations of the Revolutionary Army

(DIER) was abolished as a separate unit and its functions

were transferred to the Central Headquarters of G-2 and

is now known as the Operations Section of G-2. The

former chief of DIER, Commander ABELARDO COLOME IBARRAGARDED

is now chief of the Operations Section.

The Bureau of Naval Intelligence (BIN) was

abolished in January, 1960, and its operations were

cransferred to a G-2 unit which operates within the

Cuban Navy. Lieutenant HERNAN BERNAL, was the chief of

this unt until he was assassinated in July, 1960.

MOUSED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

421

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-1998

The Department of Technical Investigations of

the National Revolutionary Police is not a part of

Go2 and handles criminal investigations only. This

Department operates solely within Cuba, principally In

Havana, and its chief is RAUL. ARCUELLESGARDED

The section of the National Revolutionary

Police, known as "Confidential Agiliwas abolished in

July, 1960, on orders of RAUL CASTRO. FERNANDO FUENTES

was in charge of contidential a until about may,

1960, when he was transfered to the Tourist Police.

Captain LUIS PEREZ JAENIwas then placed in charge and

remained in that post until the unit was abolished.

MORALES said there is a G-2 unit within the

National Police with a Lieutenant MARRERO in charge.

It is the duty of this unit to assure that the National

Police remain loyal to the present government and to

investigate charges of counterrevolutionary activities

against individual police officers.

According to MORALES, there are G-2 units

within all branches and sections of the Cuban Government,

labor, and principal industries. It is the responsibility

of these GoL units to maintain complete loyalty to the

goverment of FIDEL CASTRO and to stamp out any activity

against that regime. In each G-2 unit there is a

political commissar. These argelesignated by the Direc-

cion de Cultura Del Ejercity-fArmy Cultural OffiCeyARDH

are generally members of the Socialist Youth Organization.

The political commissars receive four to five months!

training in commnist ideology at the Frank Paiz School.

• 3 ∞

422

INCHISED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSTFICATION SCHEDULO

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-1998

MORALES sdid that all members of G-2 are being

requested to join the Communist Party and if they refuse,

they are discharged or arrested.

He said he has heard there is an espionage

school being operated in the Ministry of Foreign

relations; however, this is only hearsay and he has m

First-hand knowledge of it. He said he has heard that

the school is operated by MINFAR and persons who attend

are selected by G-2. They are generally "fellow-travelers"

with good educational backgrounds who can operate effective-

ly throughout Latin America. I said Cuba's principal

intelligence and propaganda activities are directed

toward the Latin-American countries in order to stir up

unrest, foster revolutions, and promote anti-United States

sentiment.

Miami, Key West, and New York are the points

of primary interest to Cuban Intelligence officers,

according to MORALES. He said their interests have in

the past been largely confined to seeking information

concerning the activities and plans of anti-CASTRO persons

and groups

in those areas.

MORALES said it is his understanding that

the person to be in charge of G-2 operations in a

particular city in the United States will be selecte

by RAMIRO VALDESPAll be ordered to go to the United

declare

the future the G-2: agent in charge in a particular city.

would not work in the Consulate.

-4

423

• DECESSURICATION SOREDULE

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-

MM 105-1998

He said that the G-2 agent actually has more

authority than a Consul. He maintains contact with the

Consul and may utilize him to transit information and

reports to Cuba. The Consul may also furnish the G-2

agent in charge a list of prospective sources of in-

formation, generally from among members of the local

26th of July Clubs. These persons are then contacted

directly by the G-2 agent or someone working for him.

Their assistance is requested and they are told the

type information that is needed. These sources may be

paid if necessary and the information they furnish

warrants payment.

MORALES said he does not know who the Cuban

Go2 agents are who are operating in the United States

SOTO Bresent time, with the exception of HECTOR GARCIA,

who uses the cover of All Attache but is actually

an intelligence agent, and MANUEL MAGARINDA WhO is

G-2. He said that

mid-1960 that he was then the person in charge of the

G-2 apparatus in Miami. He said he does not know who

has taken BESTARD's place now that BESTARD is back

in Cuba.

MM I-1, another Government agency which con-

ducts intelligence and security investigations, in-

formed on January 3, 1961, that a Cuban national now

in the bited

Cuban G-2 from July, 1959, until January, 1960, and helld

other positions in the Cuban Government until December,

1960, reported that the Foreign Espionage Section is

personally supervised by RAMIRO VALDEZ and is Influenced

greatly by FIDEL and RAUL CASTRO. A great deal of im-

portance is placed on this section. Main operations are

carried out by infiltrating agents into a country who

are supervised by a designated member of the Embassy

staff. In most cases the Cuban Ambassador or Consul is.

in charge of the agents; however, in some cases the

military attache is responsible for espionage direction.

• 5∞

424

TO DE 0 CENTRAG

1O.30-RoRRO2192R0J"

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 105-1998

All information is returned to Cuba via the Embassy.

The Embassy is also used to pass communist propaganda

into the country.

The internatiqnal Espionage Section is called

"Servicios Exteriores.

and comes under the personal

direction of the G-2 Director,

RAMIRO VALDEZ. Of course,

FIDEL and RAUL CASTRO and "CHE" GUEVARA have a direct

Protocal of Foreign Relations).

About ten Russians

and Crechoslovakians are assigned to this section alone

and report directly to RAMIRO VALDEZ. These Soviet

Bloc technicans plan all foreign espionage activities.

All the Soviet Bloc advisors speak good Spanish.

do not recall any of the names of the Soviet Bloc

personnel."

MM Io?, a person acquainted with members of

the Cuban Consulates in New York and Miami, reported on

December 2, 1960, that the Cuban Government considers.

the Miami, Florida, area to be of considerably more

Importance in the intelligence field than the New York

area because of the greater amount of counterrevolutionary

activities in the Miami area and its proximity to Cuba.

-6 .

425

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL:

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 105-1998

II. • INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN CONSULATE,

MILAMI, FLORIDA.

MM T-3, a person acquainted with members of

the cuban consulate, Miami, and their activities,

advised ginNovember 14, 1960, that EDELBERTO DIAZ

ALVARE arrived in Miami, Florida, on that date IrOn

informant remarked that shortly after DIAz arrived,

he learned he had been sent to Miami as he is. 100%

with the Cuban Government.

New York City, was being transferred to the Cuban Consulate,

Miami. According to MM T-2, HERIBERTO RODRIGUEZ A An

acquaintance of GUILLOT, was going to Miami to assist

Gullbot; however, RODRIGUEL would not be an official

employee of the Cuban Foreign Service.

The informant

believed GUILLOT and RODRIGUEZ would be watching

activities of anti-CASTRO Cubans in Miami, particularly

in relation to alleged training camps in that area.

On December 1, 1960, MM I-2 stated that shortly

after the arrival of GUILLOT and RODRIGUEZ in Miami,

GUILLOT proposed that acts of sabotage and terrorism

be committed in the Miami, Florida, area in such a

manner that it would appear the anti-CASTRO forces and

sponsors of former Cuban Dictator FULGENCIO BATISTA WErE

the instigators. GUILLOT indicated the main purpose

would be to create confusion and disruption.

In regard to the proposal, EDELBERTO DIAZ

ALVAREZ and HERIBERTO RODRIGUEZ went to Cuba on December 1,

1960, fr consulatation with the appropriate officials

concerning this matter.

-7.

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHFDULE

425

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MM 105-1998

On December 30, 1960, MM I-2 informed that

DIAZ and RODRIGUEZ returned from Cuba on December 5,

1960. Upon their return they said the acts of sabotage

and terrorism would not be conducted, as Cuban officials

had decided against the

proposal.

MM T-2 informed on December 2, 1960, that

n that date MANUEL GUILLOT met with tWornidentities

lubans at the home of PRIMITIVO CONDIS

Cuban Consulate

employee, Miami.

The two unidentified Cubans allegedly

were highly placed in the Frente Revolucionario

Democraticou(FRD), an anti-CASTRO organization. They

indicated they were subject to arrest in Cuba but would

be willing to turn over to the Cuban Government informa-

tion from the files of the FRD if they were assured a

safe return to Cuba.

That night GUILLOT departed for

Cuba for consultations concerning the proposal. He

returned to Miami on December 5, 1960.

Subsequently, the informant learned from

GUILLOT that he did not intend to have any further deal-

ings with the unidentified Cubans, as he did not trust

them.

On January 3, 1961, diplomatic relations between

the United States and Cuba were broken.

The Cuban Consulate,

Miami, was closed on January 5, 1961, and within a few

days thereafter the following Consulate employees returned

to Cuba:

EDELBERTO DIAZ ALVAREZ CARDED

MANUEL GUILLOT CARDED

DULCE MARIA ALVARINO DE ALONZO CARDED.

ENA DE LA PUENTE IRDED

¡ ROBERTO FIGUEREDO JADED

-8

EXTLUDSO FROM GENERAT

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDJ

427

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 10

---

## Page 11

MM 105-1998

The following Consulate employees chose to

remain in the United States:

MARIA ISABEL GONZALEZ Y ALEGRIAKARDEP

JOSEFINA BARQUIN LOPEZCARDED.

MARIA ISABI BENITEZ ALVAREZCARU.

The three employees who chose to remain in

the United States were interviewed concerning their

knowledge of Cuban Intelligence activities in the

United States. They claimed to be unable to furnish

any specific information concerning intelligence acti-

vities on the part of employees of the Cuban Consulate

or other persons or organizations in the United States.

III. - PERSONS IN MIAMI, AREA WHOSE ACTIVITIES INDICATE

POSSIBLE CONNECTION WITH CUBAN INTELLIGENCE.

Information received and investigation conducted

at Miami indicates that the following are some of the

persons who may be engaged in intelligence activities on

behalf of the Cuban Government.

this,is in no way to

convey the impression that the following are the only per-

sons concerning whom allegations have been made of

intelligence activities; however, these are the persons

considered to be most likely actively engaged in such

activities:

A. ARTURO PLUTARCO FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO

Y DIAZ.

CARDED

Information concerning this person has

been set forth in previous reports in this

case.

ENOSIDED FROM GENERAS

428

LENOUNCS FICATION SC.29001

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 11

---

## Page 12

MM 105-1998

DE CASTRO in a sworn statement to Immigration

and naturalia in service i mam on tenemer t

1960, said he terminated his employment with the subar

Government on March 13, 1952. He denied ever having

been a member of the Communist Party of any organization

associated with the Communist Party. He denied that he

had ever been employed by the present Cuban Government

In any capacity or that he had gathered information

in the United States regarding counterrevolutionary

activities and transmitted information to the present

Cuban Government by any means.

He said he considers the

present Cuban Government communistic and claimed he

would not go to Cuba while FIDEL CASTRO is in power.

AMAURY GAUDERICIO TROYANO BARBAN, former

major in the Cuban Rebel Army and ex-chief

of the Santa

Clara Branch of G-2 in February, 1959, and an acquaintance

Of DE CASTRO for about 20 years, said in January, 1961,

he had not seen G-2 credentials for DE CASTRO but did

see credentials of the Cuban Bureau of Naval Intelligence

for DE CASTRO. He said DE CASTRO told him in early 1959

that he was working for the Bureau of Naval Intelligence

in Miami.

LIDIA FERREIRO CARDED

January 19, 1961, RICARDO FELIX PORTUONDE

PORTUONDO CA2131 Southwest 4th Avenue, Miami, informed

that LIDIA FERREIRO has recently been seen by him in

Miami.: He said FERREIRO was very active in the Cuban

revolution and was one of FIDEL, CASTRO's closest

associates both during the fighting and after he assumed

power.

She was active in the CASTRO Government from the

beginning of that regime and PORTUONDO said it would be

extremely hard to believe that she has now defected

from CASTRO.

= 10 .

hi;

4.29

CEO ADSTEIGATION SCARDO:

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 12

---

## Page 13

MM 105-1998

FERREIRO was described as about 35 years' old,

5' 6", fat, medium-dark complexion, black hair, brown

eyes, and single.

She is from Santiago de Cuba but

moved to Havana with CASTRO and for a time took care

Of FIDEL, JR. in Havana.

On January 19, 1961, AMELIA CUBRIA RAMOS,

70 Southwest 2nd Street, Miami, informed that she knows

FERREIRO is in Miami and has seen her several times.

She said FERREIRO was very close to FIDEL CASTRO,

both during the revolution and after he assumed

control of the government. She said it would be naive

to believe that FERREIRO has actually defected. She

said she does not know what FERREIRO's reason is for

being in the United States

but she suspects she is here

on behalf of CASTRO.

PORTUONDO furnished FERREIRO's address in

Miami as 1880 Southwest 11th Street, telephone HI 4-0315.

MM T-3 informed on January 19, 1961, that

' LIDIA FERREIRO, a Cuban woman, was active in July 26.

movement activities in New York City, around 1957;

however, she held no official position. In the latter

part of 1957 or early part of 1958, she disappeared

from New York.

In April, 1959, when FIDEL CASTRO returned to

New York City for a visit, after ascending to power in

Cuba, LIDIA FERREIRO preceded him by three or four days

and made preparations for his arrival. FERREIRO stayed

in the same hotel as CASTRO at that time, and "lined up

ponen for FIDEL CASTRO to sleep with."

: While in New York City there was a cultural

entertairment fund raising event and approximately

$12,000. was raised. FERREIRO stole approximately

$2,000. of the money and remarked that FIDEL CASTRO

• 11 .

430 EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDUL

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 13

---

## Page 14

MM 105-1998

would not care as CASTRO "

• trusted her so much." When

CASTRO returned to Cuba, FERREIRO returned at the same

time.

FERREIRO is described as a woman of very loose

morals. Her position in Cuba is unknown; however, she

undoubtedly held a high position because of her close

association with FIDEL CASTRO. When FERREIRO was

In New York City in April, 1959, she remarked that

prior to the revolt, she had been in the Sierra Maestra

Mountains fighting with CASTRO.

C. HECTOR RICARDO GARCIA SOTOTAEDER

CARCIA continues to reside at 1942 Northwest

33rd Street, Miami, and has been unemployed since the

Cuban Consulate at Miami closed on January 5, 1961.

Prior to that time, he was Cuban Air Attache in Miami.

On November 30, 1960, INS, Miami, informed

that official notification had been received from

INS headquarters that the A-2 Visa, which had been issued

to GARCIA, had been cancelled by the U. S. Department

of State.

As a result, GARCIA was in the United States

without a visa. GARCIA was given an exclusion hearing

by INS on November 30, 1960, and was excluded from the

United States. GARCIA's attorney filed an appeal to

the exclusion order

On December 3, 1960, INS informed that GARCIA's

appeal to the exclusion order

had been denied. When

GARCIA was told of this, he received political asylum

in the United States, stating he had broken with the

Cuban Government on December 2, 1960.

• 12 .

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

431

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 14

---

## Page 15

MM 105-1998

INS, Miami, Informed on January 6, 1961, that

they had received instructions from Central Office of

INS to grant GARCIA political exile in the United

States •

GARCIA was Interviewed on January 9, 1961.

He said he had defected from the Cuban Government

and had been granted political exile in the United

statee fectlonk e

States. He said the Cuban Government was not aware of

his defection; therefore, the former Consul in Miami

had left the key to the Consulate with him and had

given him the responsibility of shipping the documents,

papers and material from the Consulate to Cuba. GARCIA

offered to make this material available to the FBI.

GARCIA was questioned about the reason for

his defection and he was vague in his answers. He said

he did not want to go back to Cuba but he admitted

that he was still trusted by the Cuban Government, even

to the extent that they would turn over the papers

of the Consulate to him.

GARCIA was also questioned

about intelligence activities in the United States

and the identities of persons operating as intelligence

agents in this country. By his answers, GARCIA made

it clear that he was not willing to give any specific

information of this nature. He was not willing to name

names and discuss specific intelligence activities.

NAVARRRIEDecember 5, 1960, RICARDO ANIBAL MORALES

previously described in this report, in-

formed that HECTOR GARCIA uses the cover of Air Attache

but is actually an intelligence agent.

On December 2, 1960, MM T-2 informed that on

November 30, 1960, GARCIA attended a meeting at the

• 13.

EXOLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHLOTE 3

432

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 15

---

## Page 16

MM 105-1998

hOME of RAMON BIVERA

4213 Northwest 17th Avenue, Miami,

which was also attended by the Cuban Consul in Miami,

EDELBERTO DIAZ ALVAREZ, with the following persons, all

described by the informant as being extremely pro

FIDEL CASTRO:

EDUARDO JANETRO CARDED

ROBERTO FIGUERDO CARi

MANUEL, GUILLOT OND"

OSCAR JORDAN LAND?:

ERASMO GASCATTED

JORGE ORIHUELLADD

HERMELIO BORGES!"-O)

EDUARDO FERRER DEL CASTILLON 150 Merseilles

Drive, Miami, former Inspector General of the Cuban

Air Force under FIDEL CASTRO, informed on January 24,

1961, that he met GARCIA in Miami about two days after

the close of the Cuban Consulate in Miami. CARCIA

stated he was working with the Movimiento Revolucionario

Del Pueblo (MRP) , an anti-CASTRO organization active in

the Miami area.

GARCIA also remarked that prior to the

departure of the former Cuban Consul in Miami, the

Consul had given him a paper authorizing him to dispose

of the remaining furnishings in the Consulate in any

manner he saw fit.

GARCIA remarked to FERRER that he

could not now go back to Cuba.

OSCAR RAMIREZ

1713 Northwest 3rd Street,

Miami, a former leading figure in the 26th of July

Movement, which is the organization headed by FIDEL.

CASTRO, informed on January 25, 1961, that he is now a

member of the MRP, which 1s directed by RAMON BARQUIN NDEL

• 14 ..

433

TENDED FOI ENE

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 16

---

## Page 17

MM 105-1998

former Cuban Army officer in charge of Camp Colombia

under the BATISTA regime.

RAMIREZ stated that his purpose in coming to

the Federal Bureau of Investigation was to discuss a

proposition made to him by HECTOR GARCIA SOTO, "ASESOR"

of the Cuban Government in Miami. OSCAR stated that

HECTOR is the AlI Attache for the Cuban Government,

but in reality is part of the MRP and last night came

to see OSCAR, telling OSCAR RAMIREZ that he was going

to leave the Cuban Goverrment but prior to his going,

he wanted to sell ten planes - North American T-28A,

which are still here in Miaul, and which were purchased

by the BATISTA Goverrment in 1958.

GARCIA explained to RAMIREZ that he has the

authority as part of his job to dispose of the air-

planes, and he wants to sell them to RAMIREZ for one

dollar each, after which the planes will be resold and

the proceeds

used to help the MRP, and HECTOr will

openly defect and assist in the MRP.

D. - EDUARDO SIMEON JANEIRO RODRIGUEZ CARDED

JANEIRO is a citizen of Cuba who entered the

United States on June 10, 1957, with a Resident Visa.

He resides at

: 2831 Northwest 21st Court, Miami, and

Is employed as a bus boy and waiter at the Eden Roc

Hotel, Miami Beach.

MM To and MM T-S,. who have knowledge of

the Cuban Consulate, Miami, and their activities, have

reported continuously since May, 1960, that JANeIro

=.15.0

434

MASSODED TAOM GENERAC

DECLASSUFIGATION SOLIDUA

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 17

---

## Page 18

MM 105-1998

maintains constant contact with the Cuban Consul General

in Miami, personnel of the Cuban Consulate, and individ-

uals suspected of being Cuban intelligence agents, such

as CARLOS SANCHEZ, MANUEL MACARING, VIRGINIA PARKER FARDID

PRIMITIVO CONDIS, and HECTOR GARCIA SOTO.

JANEIRO was observed by Special Agents of

the FBI on September 28, and 29, 1960, to be in contact

with the Cuban Consulate, pick up bulk mail sacks at

the Miami International Airport, and deliver them to

the Consulate, go to the l. s. Post office.

• On April 25, 1960, SA WILLIAM P. KELLY observed

SANCHEL using the car of JANEIRe and JANEIRO subsequently

admitted to SAs EDWIN L. SWEET and MAURICE F. FARABEE

a As he can

that he had known CARLOS SANCHEZ since they were children,

and admitted that he had loaned him his personal car

On October 14, 1960, JANEIRO admitted that

after CARLOS SANCHEZ was expelled from the U.S. in

June, 1960, he did and does run errands for ABELARDO

LEON BLANCO, Cuban Consul in Miami. He maintained that

le did not work for

ersonally by LEOY BLAN Sue Consulate, but was hired

to heip him carry bulky mail

sacks containing magazines, reviews, and copies of

speeches of FIDEL CASTRO.

CARLOS SANCHEZ was a Cuban Intelligence Agent

in charge of intelligence activities in the Miami area

and as aresult ot

such activities, was declared

persona non grata on June 18, 1960, and departed from

the United States as ordered

• on June 19, 1960.

16 ∞

c2 EROEMS 2222.2624

435

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 18

---

## Page 19

MM 105-1998

MM T-3 informed on December 14, 1960, that

on or about December 8, or 9, 1960, EDUARDO JANEIRO

was at the Cuban Consulate, Miami.

JANEIRO indicated he

would like to work at the Cuban Consulate. He expressed

resentment that he is so strongly in favor of the

regime in Cuba, but yet could not commence working for

the Consulate. He commented he had done a lot of work

for the Cuban Government by helping CARLOS SANCHEZ,

and had gone to Tampa and Key West, Florida, with

SANCHEZ in order to help SANCHEZ with his work. JANEIRO

said the only job he would want in the Cuban Consulate,

Miami, is the job that CARLOS SANCHEZ used to have.

The flight manifest of Pan American Airways,

Flight 421, of February 10, 1961, shows that JANEIRO

departed from Miami en route to Cuba on that date.

He was accompanied by ERASMO GASCA.

IT RAMON RIVERA ARAGUEZ (AROID

RIVERA, a citizen of Cuba but a permanent

resident of the United States, resides at 4213 North-

west 17th Avenue, Miani, and has no regular employment.

The following information was obtained from

MM T-3 during November and December, 1960:

The Cuban

• Consul General, EDELBERTO DIAZ ALVAREZ, arrived in

Miami from Cuba via Cubana Airlines on the night of

November 11, 1960. He was accompanied by JOSE VAZQUEZUARDIL

also an official of the CASTRO Government. The wife

Of RAMON RIVERA also arrived on this plane. RAMON

RIVERA resides at 4213 Northwest 17th Avenue, Miami,

and has home phone number NE 5-4095. He is well

acquainted with JOSE VAZQUEZ and Consul General DIAZ

ALVAREZ. His wife, first name uknown, came to Miami

from Cuba on the same flight with VAZQUEZ and DIAZ

ALVAREZ on November 1l, 1960, and the group was met

at the airport by RAMON RIVERA.

1351

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 19

---

## Page 20

MM 105-1998

SECREE

RAMON RIVERA WaS' át the Cuban Consulate ir

Miami on November 12, 1960, at which time he conversed

privately with ROBERTO FIGUEREDO, an employee of the

Consulate.

MM To furnished the following information

on December

I, and December 2, 1960:

On November 30, 1960, the Cuban Consul General,

EDELBERTO DIAZ ALVAREZ, and seven other Cubans, known

to the source as pro-FIDEL CASTRO and anti-United States,

went to the hone of RAMON RIVERA where a pro-CASTRO

meeting was held. A film was shown of various scenes

in Cuba.

MM T-5 advised on November 23, 1960, that

PEPE VAZQUEZ, Cuban Consulate official, was in contact

with the wife of RAMON RIVERA on November 23, 1960.

MIS. RIVERA told VAZQUEZ that she knew he had not

left the preceding day because they had been at the

home of PRIMITIVO CONDIS, Cuban Consulate employee,

the preceding night.

MM T-3 Informed on January 11, 1961, that

RIVERA's wife commented on January 6, 1961, that RIVERA

was then with EDELBERTO DIAZ ALVAREZ and MANUEL GULLOT.

On January 10, 1961, RIVERA's wife stated she

did not know if she and her husband would return to

Cuba, as the work he is doing in Miami for the Cuban

Government is "very important."

SECRET

18%

CRF/MESSAGE CENTER

NUMBER E

- Ti

-tu

437

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 20

---

## Page 21

FD-323 3-28-60)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miani, Florida

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-1998

FEB 1 Y 1961

Title

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

Character

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference

Report of Special Agent WILLIAM B.

HOLLOMAN, dated and captioned as

above at Miani.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced

communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

438

138482

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

NW 64954 Docld:34517503 Page 21

---

