# docid-32332651

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90103-10052

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-433

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64578 Date: 12.14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE : 08/03/1964

'PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

V9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32332651 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL UREAU OF INVE TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

SEBASTIAN JOHN IA ROCCA, aka

DATE.

8/3864:

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT A. VOEGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/11 - 7/29/64

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED VY

emq

REFERENCES:

in 8/2 / same e

Miami airtel to Pittsburgh, 4/28/64.

Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, PIttsburgh,

4/30/64.

Milet to burgh, 6730664.

coples mado A, 7

-P -

3/14/28 J5G

re Rothmar

terrori

ENCLOSURES

(See Dufile 462-117290)

TO BUREAU (2)

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original and

one copy of a letterhead memorandum dated and captioned

as above at Pittsburgh, Pa., relating to SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

3 - Bureau (92-2940) (Ene. 2)

1 = MA 192=2055 (Pto)

2 - Pittsburgh (92-226)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2940=423

1 AUG

1964

REG. 19

Disseminatlon Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

64 AUG 121964

NW 64578 Docld:32332651 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

LEADS

MIAMI-INFORMATION

One copy of this report is being sent to the

Miami Division for information purposes in view of

the fact that investigation is pending in territory

within the jurisdiction of Miami.

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA., (ALLEGHENY COUNTY )

1.

Will follow and report the activities

Of LA ROCCA

in accordance with Bureau Instructions

and will specifically attempt to develop new sources

of Information in the vicinity of his legitimate

enterprises which will be able to give an even more

complete coverage of his financial interests.

2. Will give consideration to again

initiating

Loose surveillances of LA ROCCA

throughout the week in an effort to determine whether

he has substantially altered his daily habits

since returning to the Pittsburgh-Ingomar vicinity.

INFORMANTS

Informant Coverage Relating to This Report

PG T-1 1S ROBERT JAMES FESSIER, potential criminal

Informant of the Pittsburgh Division, who was contacted

on 6/17 and 30 and 7/21/64 by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

6/11 and 25/64 BY SA ROh A Vocontacted on 5/23,

- B

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32332651 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

PG T-3 is JOSEPH TOPOLINO, a potential

criminal informant of the Miami Division, who is

contacted

on a periodic basis by SA JAMES J. KEARNEY

of Miami.

PG T-4 1s MM 961-C who was contacted on

6/17/64 by SA JAMES J. KEARNEY of the Miami Diusion.

PG

T-5 is PG 657-CTE who was contacted on

5/11, 25 and 6/11/64 by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG T-6-7 1s PG 694-PC who was contacted

on 5/15/64 by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

PG T-0-9 is PG 722-PC who was contacted on

6/0/64 by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

-C*

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32332651 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-274 (Rox. 3-1-59)

U TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE -

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT.JN

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #3

Titles

1 - USA, Pittsburgh, Pa.

ROBERT A. VOEGE

7/30/64

92-226

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

Office:

Bureau File #:

Pittsburgh, Pa.

92-2940

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 8/13/94 BYSPOMA

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

LA ROCCA has remained in the Pittsburgh-Ingomar,

Pa., vicinity since his return from Bel Aire, Fla., during

early April, 1964.

Neighbors have observed him daily, wandering

around extensive property and bicycle-riding in apparent

effort to lose weight.

Bel Aire residence has been closed,

but Johnstown, Pa., racketeer, JOSEPH REGINO, continues to

live several doors away on semi-permanent basis. Informants

have observed LA ROCCA in downtown Pittsburgh area simply

"putting in an appearance" and keeping in touch with his

various interests.

Recent information relating to associates

engaged in racketeering activities and other acquaintances

in the Miami area reviewed. Data pertaining to the identities

of Pittsburgh "family" members provided by informant, who

acknowledges that LA ROCCA 1s still in control of "syndicate

operations.

This informant believes four families ruled

by LA ROCCA, GABRIEL MANNARINO, FRANK AMATO, and ANTONIO

RIPEPI make up the Greater Pittsburgh Area, and that chief

lieutenants in these families are MIKE GENOVESE, THOMAS

CIANCUTTI, JOSEPH SICA, and JOHN BAZZANO, respectively.

Other matters concerning personal history, illegal activities

and legitimate enterprises set forth.

IN VIEW OF THE CON-

VICTION OF LA ROCCA FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS

ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE ARMED AND

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P -

This document contains neither recommendationg nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and le loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outaide your agency.

NW 64578 Docld:32332651 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

ever operated a bicycle before and that his exercise had

been under taken in an apparent effort to lose weight.

Both Mrs.

BROWNLEE and Mrs. REDDER observed that visitors

to the LA ROCCA residence throughout the early months of

the summer have been scarce.

Neither have observed anything

out of the ordinary during the period covered by this report.

No unusual visitors have been at the residence and there have

been no large congregations of people at any time, according

to the women.

II. Other Matters Relating to Personal History and the

Current Welfare of LA ROCCA and his Relatives

PG T-I has advised that LA ROCCA has continued to

remain in the Pittsburgh-Ingomar, Pa., area and has not

returned to Florida since his return home during the second

week of April, 1964.

A mutual acquaintance has observed

LA ROCCA in the vicinity of the Mikfon Jewelry Store,

located in the

shady Side Section of Pittsburgh, on at least

two occasions.

Heretofore, LA ROCCA had not been known to

spend any time in that specific area.

The aforementioned informant.. has heard rumors

to the effect that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) at

Pittsburgh is again endeavoring to "make a big case"

involving

LA ROCCA but cannot bring it to court until more expenditures

He said LA ROCCA/knows this, and his former

daughter-in-law has been instructed by him not to talk to

Federal investigators.

He seems to be jockeying with his

creditors so that payments can be "spread out" over severai

years time. All payments, wherever possible, are made in

cash.

This informant has advised that LA ROCCA still

leaves his Ingomar,

•Pa., residence daily as though he had

a position which entailed punching a clock or reporting

to a superior.

He enjoys visiting different locations

which he has an interest and simply wants to put in an

appearance so that underlings and

possible opposition-type

Individuals continue to realize that he is in good health,

has an interest in various projects, and his completely

available.

He utilizes his Cadillac for appearances and

- 3-

NW 64578 Docld:32332651 Page 6

---

