AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: — FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10273-10375
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-124155-8

ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:
SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT. TYPE:

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:
STATUS

COMMENTS:

NW 68262 Docid:32199640

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

FBI
SAC, LA
DIRECTOR, FBI

01/03/1964

7
LHO, POST-RP, AFFIL, FPCC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

. NE

Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:

10/30/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001

Redact ~

RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)
Rennedy Assassmation
2 (44 USC 2107 Note).
i}
Page 1


ortionat tok HO. 10

UNITED STATESWs#OVERNMENT

Memorandum
DIRECTOR, FBI a
. DATE: JAN3 1964 ,
Ba
Ltypste, LOS ANGELES (105«15602) (RUC) a .
FRO! ‘i - 5 |
° 6 . . 1
EDUARDO GULLON . yf -/
SUBJECT: JS ~ CUBA \,
A i
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED Ny z 17 \

: HERBINTS UNCLASSIFIED of 42°
00: New York YR kd Peps bad Pe)
Re-New York letter dated 10/28/63. . |

Enclosed are three (3) photographs of CESAR

BOULLON being returned to the New York Office. a u ba
on 12/19/63 Reverend A, CLARK confidentially ' d a ;
advised that the records of the Catholic Welfare Center, plovi84 i
i

1400 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles, reflected that MARTIN. -

NQonrestr ores last known residence was listed as the ny
AnsoniaNApartments.,.448 South Grandview, Street, Apartment
-Number,.3,Los_ Angeles, and that TORRES was residing at this
address with his wifejand.fwo children.

oath

. On the evening of 12/19/63 at the above Ansonia;
Apartments, MARTIN TORRES FORTES advised SA FREDERICK E,
RODERICK the following in the Spanish language:

(~O

In June, 1963, while unemployed in New York City;
TORRES began going daily to the "Unemployment Agenéey".on
. Warren Street where he met EDUARDO GULLON from Peru, South
America, about 20 to’ 21 years of age, 5' 4", 150 pounds,
medium: build but well pré@portioned, dark hair, dark eyes,
; , OL Ines ab Ay °

i 3-0-6
GD. sureau (REGISTERED MAIL) (3 er Cae a
{- Kansas City (Info) (REGISTERED MATL) “2. h- ett
2 = Miami (REGISTERED -WAIL) tae One b 7 dy)
2 ~ New York (Enels. 3) (REGISTERED MATL ) 5 ae at an
4 = Los Angeles Sy bb # ;
fecen (rape TORRES) &

1-105-15864) (MANUAL RAY) — _
1#109-11) (CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS) Od LALLSS

FER/dtv. : 6 JAN 6 1964 rs i
(a) Cs 7
EE aa &

52 JAN 15 1964 xe
ee eT 7

NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 2



LA 105-15602

round face, small nose, dark complexion, mestizo (Caucasian
and Indian race) poorly dressed, worked as a porter and a
dishwasher in restaurants.

TORRES viewed the photographs of CESAR BOULLON,
which were forwarded Los Angeles by Kansas City with
negative results.

TORRES could not recall the address of EDUARDO GULLON
and added that he had furnished the address to SA PETERSON” =
in New York.

The only other person whom TORRES knew who was
acquainted with EDUARDO GULLON was a Puerto Rican, name not
recalled, who was also frequenting the Unemployment Agency
on Warren Street daily. TORRES thought that he might have
given the name of this person to SA PETERSON in New York
City, but he could not recall. The Puerto Rican, who told
TORRES that he was a member of the Nationalist Party of
Puerto Rico was in contact with GULLON and both were
intending to return to Cuba to receive instruction in
espionage, sabotage and subversive activities for the
purpose of returning later to the United States.

TORRES described the Puerto Rican as about 29
years, 5' 6", 130 pounds, black curly hair, dark eyes, thin
nose, part Negro, always wore a white shirt and black trousers.
He had worked at the New York Athletic Club in the kitchen.
TORRES did not know if GULLON had worked at the New York
Athletic Club, but considered it possible since the Puerto
Rican did work there, .

TORRES recalled that the Puerto Rican had been
arrested with others in July or August by the New York
Police Department when a protestation was made publiciy that
Negroes were not being allowed to work in the hospitals in
New York. TORRES considered that if all the photogrephs of
these persons errested were obtained that he could viz them
and identify this Puerto Rican.

=~ 2

re
NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 3


LA 105~15602

TORRES advised that he was a former member of the
Police department at Havana, Cuba, under the BATISTA regime
and that he has been well acquainted with FIDEL CASTRO and
communist elements of Cuba having worked on the subversive
detail. While associating with GULLON and the Puerto Rican,
he criticized the United States and posed as being sympathetic
toward communism in order to ascertain information from
them.

TORRES advised that if any information is ever
obtained about his being sympathetic toward communism, that
this should be discounted because he has spent most of his
life and especially the last five years doing everything
possible to fight communism.

TORRES learned from GULLON and the Puerto Rican
that FIDEL CASTRO is now inducing individuals who are in
favor of communism and who are in the United States to go to
Cuba for special training creating a "Fifth Column" to
return to the major cities in the United States. TORRES
learned from GULLON that CASTRO intends within a ten year
period to have enough "Fifth Column" trainees to take over
the United States.

TORRES was certain that by now GULLON, the Puerto
Rican and allegedly 24 others from New York are now in Cuba
| receiving the described training. He understood that each
individual who is to go to Cuba for the training is moved
from the United States clandestinely either through Canada
or Mexico. He did not know the identity of the others as
this was told him by GULLON,

TORRES stated that he had intended to obtain the
name of Dominican who was to go also to Cuba for the
above training, but TORRES left New York City before ha
obtained the name.

TORRES repeated that GULLON and the Puerto Rican
were well acquainted and that their contacts were at tne
Casa Cuba which TORRES described as a "bee-hive" of
“individuals who are in favor of CASTRO, and communism against
the U.S. .

+ . -3-

NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 4


LA 105-15602

TORRES advised that he knew nothing further than
that above and that if he were to find out further

anformation or assist the Bureau, he was desirous of knowing if
the Bureau would back him all the way if he were uncovered as a

person assisting the Bureau.

WORRES was told emphatically that he could never
consider himself to be a Bureau employee and that the Bureau
could never give an individual the license to act on his
own and to take the law in his hands.

TORRES explained that he had gone into the Miami
office some time back and presented some information
regarding the passing out of pro-CASTRO propaganda and that
at that time he had asked for Bureau backing if he should
infiltrate into pro-CASTRO ranks. He was told then that he
could not consider himself to be a Bureau employee and he
advised that he could not understand how anyone could assist
the United.States with such a policy. He considers that the
Bureau would back anyone fully who would volunteer to fight
FIDEL CASTRO and communism.

. TORRES stated that he was disgusted with CIA and
its policy because he was involved in the Bay of Pigs
invasion and he met representatives of CIA in Guatemala who
could not speak Spanish and actually what they instructed
with regard to espionage and sabotage was archaic. He
digressed at length to explain how when he tried to open some
ammunition boxes during the invasion that he found bricks in
,the boxes and he was certain that there had been a
"double-cross", all the way on this invasion.

TORRES was critical of the apathy of the American
people toward CASTRO and he warned of the dangerousness of
CASTRO. He added that he got to know CASTRO in Cube and
that CASTRO is an egotist who will stop at nothing. TORRES
was critical because he cannot understand why the United
States allows Cuba to maintain a bastion of arms just 95
miles away from United States shorez; why persons such as
students are allowed to go to Cuba; and why persons are
allowed to furnish monies to aid Cuba without their being
prosecuted. He identified Cuba as the enemy and any

ye

NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 5



rte RR

LA 105=15602

information given Cuba against the United States he considers
is an act of espionage. He could not understand why even
the Casa Cuba is allowed toqerate in New York City.

. TORRES advised that he is associated with a group
whom he did not volunteer to identify who are disgusted with
the apathy of the American people and the U. S. Government
against communism in Latin American and this group of
Cubans consider their struggle not one of fighting to keep
communism out of Cuba or the United States alone, but of
keeping the entire Western Hemisphere free from conmunism.
He considers their struggle to be a losing battle because
he understands that CASTRO could now cause a revolution for
communism in almost every country in South America but that
Russia is not in accord because Russia fears that CASTRO
would take over and cut Russia out of the material gains.
TORRES was not pressed for the identity of this group because
it was apparent that at this time he would not identify
them, _

TORRES advised that it is a mockery to not allow
the report of the FBI concerning the assassination of
President JOHN F, KENNEDY to be made public. TORRES advised
that it is a known fact that LEBXQSWALD was connected with
the Pair Play for Guba and to not alert the American nation
to this as well as to the distortion of OSWALD's mind is to
be "lulled into a falsé state of complacency."

TORRES advised that Americans have little if any
understanding of the diabolical ambitions of CASTRO or even
much understanding of communism. He related at length how
he personally attempted to alert the U. 8. Embassy at Havana
about FIDEL CASTRO being a communist and how many Americans
in Cuba and the U. S. were first sympathetic toward CASTRO.

TORRES considers it pathetic that the Voice of
America is so i111 equipped to compete with the pro-Soviets
broadcasts which are being made to Cuba. He has been appalled
at the great amount of pro-Sovist propaganda being exhibited
to the American people by television and he was especially

~5~

NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 6



LA 105-15602

eritical of.a recent program concerning the Soviet education
of ehildren which he professed was nothing but “a pack of
lies. . :

TORRES advised that the American people must
understand that it was BATISTA himself who started communism
itself in Cuba. It was BATISTA who allowed members of the
Communist Party to be sitting on his own cabinet. BATISTA
allowed communism to get its first stronghold in Cuba.

TORRES advised that he would willingly advise at a y
future date all that he knows about. communism in Cuba. H2 : art
described CARLOS PRIO SOCCARAS as a farce, a phony, who has
@ following of people who do not know him to be “a cardboard
paper President of Cuba." He knew PRIO SOCCARAS had been
recently in Los Angeles. He was certain that MANUAL RAY is
not pro=Soviet. Regarding the latter, ne stated that he is
not a Soviet spy, that MANUEL RAY believes in establishing
only a socialized system of government in Cuba and purposely
wants to eliminate communism.

TORRES was friendly and was desirous of having a
meet again.

TORRES advised that he is presently employed at
the Packard-Bell Industrial Products factory and that he \
daily tries to apprise his fellow workers who are Americans

* of the danger of FIDEL CASTRO toward the future of the
‘United States. He explained that the is hopeful of :
obtaining better employment in order to continue in his ~
fight against communism. He exhibited an advertising sketch
he had drawn and started that he was hopeful of obtaining
employment in designing for advertisements. He stated that
he needs more money to support his family and more time to
do what he wants to struggle against communism.

TORRES explained that his wife's mother is in -
Miami and he is hopeful of moving her to Los Angeles, and
thereby reside in the Los Angeles area unless CASTRO were
deposed and he could then return to Cuba.

-6-

NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 7


Oo
O

LA 105~15602

. The indices of the Los Angeles Office are
negative for names of EDUARDO GULLON and MARTIN TORRES

FORTES, :
LEADS: |
|
NEW YORK ‘
can ————
i AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK: (1) Will consider
a / the advisacility of checking at the ."Unemployment Agency" on

‘Warren Street or the New York Athletic Club, for background
data on EDUARDO GULLON, .
(2) Will consider obtaining photographs of
persons arrested by the New York Police in July or |
August of 1963, for purpose of exhibiting these to MARTIN .
TORRES ¥ORTES to identify the Puerto Rican acquainted with
GULLON. :
\
\

(3), Will furnish the Los Angeles Office with all
-known background data on MARTIN TORRES FORTES for purpose of
evaluating any information furnished by him, possibly as a
source on Cuban matters,

NZ

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA: Will check indices and furnish
. the Los angeles Office background data on MARTIN TORRES
FORTES for the purpose of evaluating any information
furnished by him possibly as a source on Cuban matters.

—!
innit ni

NW 68262 Docid:32199640 Page 3
