# docid-32309680

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10300-10046

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-31-434

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DEVLIN, JOHN PATRICK

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1963

PAGES: 87

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, LCN, MEMBERS, GAMBLING ACT, GRAND

JURY, LEGAL BUSS, CRIMINAL ACT, NJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1B, INC ADMIN PAGE

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

....:

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

DATE

6/27/63

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN PATRICK DEVLIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/15/62 - 6/21/69

Tep

PROGRAM

AR

TYPED BY

10

REFERENCES

Newark report of SA JOEN PATRICK DEVLIN 12/20/62.

- p*-

ENCLOSURES

TO THE BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum dated

6/27/63 setting forth characterization of informants in

captioned case,

ADMINISTRATIVE

No known citizen groups organized to combat the

criminal element in existence in the New Jersey division at

this time.

The following substantive cases have been opened

and investigated as a result of investigatinn under the

APPROVED

Criminal Intertigence breast heir

IN CHARGE

'COPIES MADE:

3

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

62-19:34-1434

1

food fond fat

Bureau fBi

USA, Newark

New

York (Info)

Miami (Info)

Las Vegas (Info)

Philadelphia (Info)

- Newark (92-1236)

10 •UL 1 1963

Dissemination Record of Attached Report,)

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwa

How Fwd.

3y

2

JUL 28 1963

REG- 13

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 92-1236

J. LUBUCHER, JR.; ET AL, ITWI

ANTHONY PINTABONA, ITAR

GEORGE BONOWITZ,

ITWP

ROBERT WARE, ITWP

GEORGE SMITH, ITWP

(FNU) TREZZA, ITWP

JOHN STRICKLAND BARBER SHOP, ITWP

JOHN STETSKO, ITWI

DANIEL, CALABRESE, ITAR

A. AFELLI, ITWI

UNSUB; Location at 511 Ilth Street, Union City, N.J., ITWI

DANIEL CALABRESE, ITWI

DONALD SALANTIE,

ITWI

JOSEPH RUSSO, ITWI

HENRY DINSK,

ITWE

NICHOLAS BUFANIA, ITWP

MICHAEL CASOLARO, ITWP

ALFRED W. PEPPER, ITWI

HARRY BLAKMANg

RONALD GRIFFITH,_ ITWI

A. ANTONICELLO, ITWI

AMERICO BUONACUORE,

SAL SCAFIDI, ITW

UNSUB; PHONE NO. CRESTVIEW 3-84Í1, EAST ORANGE, ITWI

DAVID GOLDBERG,, ITWP

SID ALLEN'S RESTAURANT, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., ITAR

INFORMANTS

NK T.1

NK T-2

NK T-3

NK T-4

NK T-5

NK T-6

NK 2251-C*

JOSEPH VALACHI, (by request)

NK 2327-C

NY 3803-C

NK 2319-C*

PH 591-C*

NK T-7

PH 623-C*

NK T-8

NK T-9

SF 2550-C-TE

NY 3368-C-TE

COVER PAGE

, NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-1236

INFORMANTS (Cont°d)

NK T-10

NK T-11

NK T-12

NK T-13

NK. T-14

NK T-15

NK T-16

NK T-17

NK T-18

NK T-19

NK T- 20.

NK T-21

NK T-22

NK T-23

NK T-24

NK T-25

NK T-26

NK T-27

NK T-28

NK T-29

NK T-30

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 4

NK 2251-C*

PCI JOHN ANTHONY VIOLA

NK 2344-C

NK 2251-C*

LT. FRANK DANIELLO,

HOBOKEN, NJPD (by request)

NK 2251-C*

NK 2251-C*

NK 2267-C-TE

NK 2313-C*

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE OF

ANDREW SHUMACK, ATTD

NK 2344-C

NK 2346-C-TE

NK 2155-C

PCI ARMANDO RESTAINO

NK 2367-C

MM 845-C*

PCI JACK MALONEY

NK 2182-C

PCI SADIE FEDERVERED BY EAWUFK TASK FORCE

NK 2251-C*

ON 6/9/97 dob / PCR

NY 3884-C

DE. RELEASE IN FULL •

T RELEASE IN PART

COVER PAGE

TOTAL DENIAL /

---

## Page 5

NK 92-1236

INFORMANTS (Cont'd)

NK T-31

NK T-33

NK T-34

NK T-35

NK T-36

NK T-37

NK T-38

NK T-39

NK T-40

NK T-41

NK T-42.

NK T-43

NK T-44

NK T-45

NK T-46

NK T-47

NK T-47

NK T-49

NK T-50

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 5

PCI LOUIS PAVLAR

NK CS 2342-C

RAYMOND J. BITTEL,

Retail Credit Co.

744 Broad Street, Newark

(by request)

NK 2319-C*

NK 2362-C

PCI RICHARD FAVRE

NK 2319-C*

PCI JOSEPH BELLINA

NK 2181-C

PCI JAMES J. JOHNSON

FRANK W. GORCZYKA

213 Livingston Street

Elizabeth, N.J. (by request)

NK 2213-C

PCI SAN BUSHINGER

PCI JOHN VERHAGE

PCI ALFONSO CONDELLO

NK 2248-C

PCI JAMES PECORINO

NK 2300-C

NK 2335-C

NK 2308-C

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 6

NK 92-1236

INFORMANTS (Cont'd)

NK T-51

NK T-52

NK T-53

NK T-54

NK T-55

NK T-56

NK T-57

NK T-58

NK T-59

NK T-60

NK T-61

NK T-62

NK T-63

NK T-Ga

NK T-65

NK T-66

NK T-67

NK T-68

NK T-69

NK T-70

_ NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 6

ARNOLD WARSON ROSE (by request)

DET. DANIEL SPISSO,

Middlesex County Prosecutor's

Office (by request)

NK 1887-C

NK 2152-C

NK 2313-C*

NK 2251-C*

FRANK BLAISDELL, City

Treasurer, Long Branch, N. J.

(by request)

NK 1925-C

PCI GRAMMAR LEE CURRIE

PCI MICHAEL D'ANDREA

PCI JAMES MORRIS

PCI GEORGE BRAKENBAUGH

DET. FRANK SENATORE,

CAMDEN, NJPD (by request)

NK 2361-C*

NK 2153-C

NK 2358-C

NK 2361-C*

NK 2290-C

NK 2241-C

PCI LAWRENCE ALBRIGHT

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 7

ur

in Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ED STATES DEPARTMENT 01

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

June 27, 1963

USTICE

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

ANTI RACKETEERING

Reference is made to

the report of Special Agent

John Patrick Devlin dated June

• 27, 1963, at Newarks,

New

Jersey.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Ni T-l is in a position to furnish information

concerning Causa Nostra and especially members of the Vito

Genovese family in New Jersey.

NK T-2 1s a former member of Causa Nostra.

NK T-3 has had long association with criminals

and their activities and was once considered for membership

in Causa Nostra.

NK T-4 has been engaged in criminal activities

for many years and has been confined in various penitentiaries

in the United States.

Nº T-5 1s in a position to furnish accurate

information concerning Causa Nostra in New Jersey and

neighboring states.

No 1-6 is in a position to furnish Information

pertaining to Causa Nostra in the Philadelphia area.

NK T-7 is in a position to furnish reliable

information concerning Causa Nostra particularly regarding

the Angelo Bruno family.

NK T-8 is associated with persons having knowledge

of Causa Nostra activities in the New York area.

NK T-9 has knowledge of certain members of Causa

Nostra.

NK T-10 is familiar with activities of the

Angelo De Carlo group.

Site wilde

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 7

---

## Page 8

FAIT.

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-11 is involved with shylocks in the Hudson

County, New Jersey, area.

NK T-12 1s familiar with gambling activities in

the New Jersey shore area.

NK T-13 is familiar with some aspects of hoodlum

activity in New Jersey.

NK T-14 is familiar with crime conditions in

Hoboken, New Jersey.

NK T-15 1s familiar with hoodlum activities in

North Jersey area.

NK T-l6 1s associated with hoodlums in North Jersey

area.

NK T-17 is familiar with criminal activities in

Hudson, Essex and Bergen County areas.

NK T-18 is in contact with persons close to the

Angelo De Carlo group.

NK T-19 is familiar with activities concerning

illegal alcohol matters.

NK T-20 is familiar with activities of Anthony

Russo in the New Jersey shore area.

NK T-21 is familiar with associates of Anthony

Caponigro.

Ni 1-22 is an ex-convict who associates with

criminals in the Newark area.

NK T-23 associates with gambling element in

North Ward section of Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-24 associates with gamblers in the Newark

area.

NK T-25 1s faniliar with some agthilttes ayathay FORCE

Russo in Miami area.

ON 6/9/97 dub /PSt

- RELEASE IN FULL

-2-

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL: DENIAL.

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-26 contacts bookmakers and bets with them.

NK T-27 has many friends among the criminal element

In Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-28 1s acquainted with many Newark area hoodlums.

NK T-29 frequents hangouts of hoodlums.

NK T-30 1s familiar with gambling figures and

activities in the New York area.

NK T-31 is familiar with conditions at Frankle's

Market, Lodi, New Jersey.

NK T-32 is a person who knows many gamblers.

NK T-33 has access to confidential records.

NK T-34 1s aware of some of the activitles of

Newark, New Jersey, area hoodlums.

NK T-35 is in a position to obtain information

concerning criminal activities in the Newark, New Jersey,

area.

NK I-36 is familiar with persons residing in

north Newark and Bloomfield, New Jersey, areas.

NK T-37 is familiar with hoodlum activities in

Newark, New Jersey, area.

NK T-38 1s familiar with gambling activities in

the Plainfield, New Jersey, area.

NK T-39 1s familiar with the criminal element

in Jersey City and Hudson County area.

NK T-40 is a longshoreman on the Hoboken, New

Jersey, waterfront.

NK T-41 deals with gamblers and is in debt to them.

NK T-42 is a convicted burglar and bookmaker who

1s well acquainted with gambling activities in northern New

Jersey•

-3-

_NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NOW JERSEY

NK T-43 1s an ex-convict who knows Hudson County

area hoodlums.

NK T-44 1s

familiar with gambling activities in

Hudson County•

NK T-45 knows many gamblers and gambling

establishments in Hoboken, New Jersey.

NK T-46 1s a tavern owner in Jersey City, New

Jersey•

NK T-47 1s associated with

gamblers. in the Bergen

County area.

NK T-48 is familiar with hoodlun activities in

the Bergen County area.

NK I-49 1s acquainted with gamblers in the Bergen

County area.

NK T-50 is a former bookmaker acquainted with

gambling activitles in northern New Jersey area.

NK T-51 1s familiar with some gambling activity

in the Passaic, lew Jersey, area.

NK T-52 is familiar with gambling activities in

the Middlesex Counts area.

NK T-53 1s familiar with Spanish speaking element

1n Perth Amboy, New ursey, area.

NK T-54 1s a prostitute who associates with gamblers

-aad d0odlums.

NK T-55 is in contact with associates of Angelo

De Carlo.

NK T-56 1s fantliar with activities of some northern

New Jersey area hoodlms.

NY I-57 has access to official records.

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 10

---

## Page 11

ini

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK I-58 has contact with gamblers and hoodlums

in the Camden, New Jersey, area.

Candoa, New Frey, featllar with gamblers active in the

NK I-60 is familiar with local gambling activities

In the Canden, New Jersey, area.

New Jersey, F-61 associates with gambling element in Camden,

NK T-62 is familiar with activities in the Paulsboro,

New Jersey, area.

Camden, Now JerS8y,ª Ranillar vita gambliag activities da the

NK T-64 1s familiar with activities of Herman Orman

and his associates.

NK T-65 associates with the criminal element 1n

Atlantic City, New Jersey, area.

NK T-66 is active among Negro criminal element in

Atlantic City, New Jersey, area.

NK T-67 is familiar with gambling activities in

Atlantic City, New Jersey, area.

NK T-68 is intimately familiar with the criminal

element in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-69 is acquainted with illegal activities

being carried on in Atlantic City area.

NK T-70 has knowledge of numbers and other

gambling activity in the Atlantic City area.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the

property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its

contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

..

- 5-

NW 68262 Docld:32309680 Page 11

---

