# docid-32332649

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90103-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2940-431

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

E4578 Date: 12.14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/30/1964

' PAGES:

21

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

V9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32332649 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

{-+

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTiNG OFFICE

PITTSBURG:I

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aKa

DATE

4/30/64

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT A.

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/2/64 - 4/27/64

VOEGE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED DY

LLA

REFERENCES

report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE,

Miami airtel to Pittsburgh, 1/17/64

Pittsburgh, 1/7/64.

Pittsburgh teletypes to Miami, 7/21 64, and 2/15/64.

Miami teletype to Pittsburgh, 2/6/64.

Pittsburgh airtels

Miami radiogram to Pittsburgh, 2/14/64.

_P-

ENCLOSURES

ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU (5)

ENCLOSURES TO MIAMI (2)

APPROVED X4

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3JBureau (92-2940) +1

at 5)

Pittsburgh,

2-Miami (92-163)

2-P130 92-16321203

1. - MAY 22 9721

Agency

jin quest Recd.

Date Fwd.

llow Fwi.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

- Rift

5/1x/(4

Enclosed for the Bureau are

two originals and three

copies of two letterhead

memoranda dated and captioned

as above at Pittsburgh, Pa.

Enclosed for Miami are two

copies of a letterhead

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2940-431

REC- 146

• MAY 6.1964

Notations

MANNARiND

DIT 6:/d•X57

4.38

^964

NW 64578 Docld:32332649 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-224

memorandum dated and

captioned as above at

Pittsburgh, Pa.

LEADS

MIAMI

AT BEL AIRE, FLA.

1.

Will spot check the residence of LA ROCCA at

this location in an effort to determine whether it is

occupied and whether any vehicles bearing Pennsylvania

registrations are in the Immediate neighborhood.

It

should be noted that informants have advised that

LA ROCCA returned to Pittsburgh during the second week

of April, 1964, but may have left someone living in his

house.

Will review all toll calls made from the

LA ROCCA residence at Bel Aire

and will set them

forth for proper identification.

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1.

Will follow and report the activities of LA ROCCA

in accordance with Bureau instructions and will specifi-

cally attempt to develop new sources of information

which will be able to give an even more complete coverage

of these activities.

In relation to the aforementioned lead, will

specifically attempt to develop intensive coverage

at the Mikfon Jewelry Company in the East Liberty

section of Pittsburgh, at which location MIKE GENOVESE

and underlings of the

LA ROCCA - GENOVESE organization

are alleged to hold meetings on a periodic basis.

ADMINISTRATIVE

JOSEPH TOPOLINO, former maintenance man at

the Bel Aire, Fla., residence of JOSEPH REGINO, has been

contacted by

Bureau Agents of the Miami Office, and he

appears willing to cooperate by furnishing information

concerning REGINO and LA ROCCA. He has advised that

he comes from Johnstown,

pa. s

at which location he

operated

a beer distributorship which failed. He came

B

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32332649 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

to Florida at the Invitation of REGINO and he and his:

wife lived

at the REGINO residence for a few years.

TOPOLINO was separated from his wife and moved out of

the residence about one year ago, but he still sees

her periodically..

He said that his wife, although not

related to the REGINO family, remains loyal to the

family members.

TOPOLINO advised that about six months ago,

REGINO accused him of stealing some tools and struck

him in the face.

He did not retaliate because he did

not wish to get

into trouble, but he has no loyalty

to REGINO. He advised that under no circumstances

will he ever testify to anything he says and he does

not wish his contacts with the FBI to become known

He will furnish whatever information he

can but admitted that this will be limited.

Information furnished by TOPOLINO appears

in this report under a T symbol but it was deemed

advisable to identify him more

fully in the adminis-

trative section.

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, who has handled the

LA ROCCA Investigation since its initiation following

the conference at Apalachin, New York, was assigned

to the Bureau Applicant Program at Johnstown, Pa.,

from 1/15/64, through 4/24/64. Because of this,

the

period of this report has been extended longer than

usual.

The investigation has been kept current,

however, through numerous interoffice communications

and through extensive informant coverage which has

pinpointed the location of LA ROCCA on an almost

daily basis.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG T.- 1. Is PG 632-C;

who was contacted on 1/2,

21; 3/15, and 4/77/64, by

ROBERT A. VOGE.

PG -T-2 IS JOSEPH TOPOLINO, a potential

criminal informant of the Miami Office,

who

contacted by SA JAMES. J. KEARNEY on 3/5/64.

SA JAMES B.

B. FANNING 0 61/20754

who was contacted by

COVER: PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32332649 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

PG I-4 1s PG 675-CTE; who was contacted by

SA JAMES B. FANNING on 1/2 and 1/6/64.

PG T-5 1s PG 704-PC, who was contacted by

SA W. B. ANDERSON on 3/13/64.

D*

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32332649 Page 5

---

