JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Agency Information

FBI
124-90118-10001

HQ

CR 62-75 147-12-103

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

TO

TITLE

DATE:

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS.
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW,

OPENING CRITERIA.

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FBI
DL

HQ

02/15/1956

4

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE DALLAS

DIVISION
HARRY RAYMOND POPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
Unclassified
4

Redact
08/17/1998
INDEFINITE

MEMO, INC RPT

vod

NW 68262 Docld:32334642 Page 1


7 Gyan 5 nes ©

¢ ‘Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

; “Off

Bx) DIRECTOR, FBI pATE: February 15, 1956
FROM + DALLAS (94-55)

suayect: GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE

i DIVISION ae

1

There is being forwarded herewith to the Bureau

“che report on the above-captioned matter cover ae a
eriod from August 15, 1955, to February 15, 1956, with
copies of this report being furnished the San Antonio

fe
and Houston Divisions.

/. Bureau (Enels. 2) bi 7
1 = Houston (Enel. 1) 4,
1 = San Antonio (Encl. 1)
1 = Dallas (94-55)
VED/gcd

it

sa
iS “us . ae we
Tales ! a

WO ve
§ 6 @ GMARL

NW_68262 Docld:32334642 Page 2

21956



HEADQUARTERS CITY - DALLAS

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

In the past six months the following individuals
have been contacted relative to organized gangs in Dallas,
Texas and the surrounding area: DL-40-C, DL-50-C, DL-53-C,
DL-33-C, DL-71-C, DL-73-C, and PCIs H, P, WHITE and ALTO
McGOWAN. In addition to these individuals, Chief of Police
CARL F, HANSSON of the Dallas Police Department, HENRY WADE,
@allas County District Attorney, J..E, (Bill) DECKER, Sheriff,
Dallas County, and DAN REYNOLDS, Director of the Dallas Crime
Commission, None of these individuals could furnish any infor-
mation which would reflect in any manner that there was any
organized gangs in Dallas or Dallas County, Texas.

B. . INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS

During the past six months, above mentioned informants
and other individuals contacted, who are in a position to have
information concerning racketeers and mobsters, all advise
that there are no known racketeers or mobsters in the Dallas
or Dallas vicinity at the present time, These individuals
advised that those individuals who might be considered
racketeers and mobsters in some manner have moved out into
suburban areas near Dallas. The following individuals, who
might be considered remotely in the racketeer and mobster
category are being set forth;

GEORGE. SS, FBI 2
7 [aaa
aa As has been previously reported, BASS continues to
dive in the small suburban town of Irving, Texas, which 1s
located approximately 12 miles from Dallas, Texas, BASS!
activities have been limited to a great degree because of
the surveillances that have been maintained on.him by the
Texas Rangers and by the Dallas County Sheriff's Office from
time to time, BASS is principally a night time*burglar, who
confines his interests mainly to burglarizing safes. BASS
het been known in the past to deal in narcotiés from time to
me.

Aah nrcwVons6io, daa: 2 Dallas Police Department #11976:
aa \

CASCIO is an associate of GEORGE JETTIE BASS,
He is a known safe burglars: and has for the past several

¥ \ Bone gay

NW 68262 Docld:32334642 Page 3
