JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

5/20/201

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10288-10415
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-6054-2401, 2402, 2403, 2404
‘ Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WILLIAMS, DOUGLAS J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 08/23/1968
‘PAGES: = 84
SUBJECTS :
LCN, EXISTENCE, ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE,
LEADERSHIP, MEMBERSHIP, CRIMINAL ACT, PROSECUTIVE
ACTION, INTERNAL DISSENSION, ILLEGAL ACT,
CONSPIRATORIAL ASPECTS, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
INVOLVING LCN MEMBERS, TESUR, MISUR.
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact I
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES, 2,2a, INDEX PAGES 30-36, INC 3 RPT

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 1


FD-263 (Rev. 3-6-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU

REPORTING OFFICE

cr
Ey

Fonilan 4

OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN
BUFFALO BUFFALO

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

8/24/68

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/1-14/68

LA COSA NOSTRA
BUFFALU DIVISION

REPORT MADE BY

FRANCIS B, JENKINS

TYPED BY

3jJmb

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCE:

Bureau airtel to New York dated 7/24/68.

-P-

LEADS

ALBANY (INFORMATION)

One (1) copy of this report is being furnished the
Albany Office in view of the fact that close associates and
members of the "Magaddino Family" reside in the Albany Division.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

NONE

convic [auto.| rus. FINES SAVINGS.

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-
TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING ovER one Year OX)ves [Jno
PENDING PROSECUTION
Clves [ino

SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE

approves VW

OVER SIX MONTHS,
DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES May

- Bureau (92-6054) (AM-RM)

1 - Albany (92-535) (Info) (AM-HI

2 - New York (92-2300) (AM-RM)

FAcboEL- ayoye®
My

&

ee eee nat em :
2 - Buffalo (92-337): ‘ maead
2G
Spy :)
a gai ———dde’_
Dissemination Record of Attached Report “_| Notations e v ,
* Agency ; Ba '
Request Recd. |. i \
Oe nef
Date Fwd. e 7?
How Fwd. Bactien, Arm A7
+ “4
By IN 7

67. 0CT 18 1968

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 2


FD-263 (Rev. 3-6-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

BUFFALO BUFFALO 8/24/68 8/1-14/68

TITLE OF CASE y REPORT MADE oY —Tevens ey
LA COSA NOSTRA FRANCIS B, JENKINS :jmb

BUFFALW DIVISION CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCE: Bureau airtel to New York dated 7/24/68.
-P-
LEADS

ALBANY (INFORMATION)

One (1) copy of this report is being furnished the
Albany Office in view of the fact that close associates and
members of the "Magaddino Family" reside in the Albany Division,

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED NONE AcQuit-| case was vcen:
convic [auro.] Fue. FINES SAVINGS Recoveries | TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [K]yes (—]No
PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS (ves Gino

approves \ VW nanenpereae DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau (92-6054) (AM-RM) PAcboEx- QYO4 eee

1 - Albany (92-535) (Info) (AM-RMJ—~ ~
2 - New York (92-2300) (AM-RM) |

COPIES May

2 - Buffalo (92-337): —_
: Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations 7
. pager
Agency 7 ;
Request Recd.| i oa
Date Fwd. | OO al :
How Fwd. becker, Fe

oath

BIG 18,1968... 3 ; :



BU 92-337

LEADS (CONT'D) -

NEW YORK

AT_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

Two (2) copies being furnished New York for
preparation of National Summary report.

BUFFALO

AT BUFFALO, NEW YORK

Will correlate pertinent information developed in
the course of investigations of individual LCN members,

INFORMANTS

Identity of
Source

BU T-1,
BU 280-c*

BU T-2,
NY 4336-C-TE

BU T-3,
BU 319-C-TE

BU T-4,
BU 461-c¢

BU rR
SF 2689-C-TE

BU T-6,
BU 409-C-TE

BU T-7,
ROBERT G, MALLION,
PCL :

BU T-8,
BU 305-C-TE

|
|

4

se rere ae

-B- See eter
COVER PAGE “Cy BT OC VEE G

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 4


BU 92-337

INFORMANTS (CONT'D

Identity of
Source :

BU T-9,
BU 382-C-TE

BU T-10,
BU 332-C-TE

BU T-11,
BU 62-c am

BU T-12,
BU 258-C*

BU T-13, z
MICHAEL AMICO, i
Assistant Chief of : i

’ Detectives, : t
Buffalo, New York, : i
Police Department

BU T-14,
JOSEPH VALACHI

BU T-15, \
BU 297-C-TE |

BU T-16,
RCMP, Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada

BU T-17,
BU 351-C-TE

BU T-18,
PETER ATIGAN,
PCI

\ BU T-19, ;
BU 451-Pc

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 5


ae : poo ~

BU 92-337 :

ICN
MONTREAL, QUEBEC
CANADA

It has been previously reported that in January,
1965, STEVE MAGADDINO mentioned that he had "Been in Canada"
for hs years and specifically mentioned Montreal, Quebec,
as a location where he had considerable influence,

On April 8, 1968, BU T-16 advised that information
was received that on October 17, 1966, GIACOMO LUPPINO, of
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, suspected LCN member, and SANTO
SCIBETTA had visited Niagara Falls, New York, where a meeting
of about 45 minutes' duration took place between these men and
a member of the "Magaddino Family." BU T-16 furnished no
further information at this time concerning this meeting.

LON
INTERNAL DISSENSION

On August, 25, 1967, BU T-4 advised that leadership
in LCN was still vested in STEVE MAGADDINO, with FRED
RANDACCIO next in line to assume command of the "Family" '
contingent upon the outcome of the legal proceedings against
him.

7 On December 26, 1967, BU T-6 in discussing the likely
: successor to RANDACCIO as Underboss,- pointed out that such

7 discussion was pure speculation and that MAGADDINO would not

7 name a successor until all of RANDACCIO's appeals have been

i exhausted. BU T-6 pointed out that if MAGADDINO should name

a successor before RANDACCIO!'s appeals were decided and
RANDACCIO was subsequently released from prison, a power
struggle leading to violence would probably evolve between
RANDACCIO and whoever was named as his successor,

BU T-6 stated that RANDACCIO is feared by most
of his underlings and actually hated by many of them. {
Many members of the "Magaddino Family" are actually glad \
that RANDACCIO is now in prison. BU T-6 pointed out that
the "Magaddino Family" was then without an "operating head"
in Buffalo and, as a result, is in a disorganized state,

-13-
: 92-66SV-2LOY

Pei SS BBe AWA

|
|
er neg ECG HE UEE : ichanamattint)

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 6


-FEDERALSBUREAU OF INVE

rasa

2TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

8/23/68

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/2/67 - 8/20/68

TITLE OF CASE~

x OD

a LA COSA NOSTRA

a

REPORT MADE ay

SA ROBERT W, KNIGHT

TYPED BY

bb

CHARACTER OF CASE He

AR - CONSPIRACY

nN
REFERENCES: Rep of SA ROBERT W. KNIGHT dated 9/11/67 at TP;
me Bu airtel to NY dated 7/24/68.
: att
INFORMANTS:
Source Identity
TP T-1 MI 623-C-TE
TP T-2 NY 3123-c*
TP T-3 NY.5542-C-TE
TP T-4 SF 2550-C-TE
iizsrienretenntias __ ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED None ACQUITA teste ae eae
convic [Auto| rus. FyWES savines | recoveries | TALS 2

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [~Jves [Jno

PENDING PROSECUTION
OVER SIX MONTHS.

(ves Gono

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT,

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

CD- Bureau (92-6054) (RM)

fe

Cosy — AWS | REC-52

Cenmaaiaalama
/2 = New York (92-2300) (RM) : ef (OB
: .i 25 AUG 26 1968° Peseta
2 = Tampa (92-218) can a
quel y :
are __Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations
Agency
1, RequestRecd.| " @ mona Tesstens LDietetes \ _ E
Date Fwd, Organized C: Ny a i
Fwd Room 229

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 7


TP 92-218
TP T-5
> TP T-6
TP T-7
TP T-8
TP T-9
TP T-10
LEADS:

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Will continue investigation of captioned organiza-
tion and individual members and submit report when requested

‘by Bureau.

‘ Be
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 8

NY 3461-C-TE
NY 3368-C-TE
NY 3864-C-TE
(not utilized)
LA 4960-C-TE
SD 1064-C-TE



FD-263 (5-12.58)

po FEDERAL SURE‘

O

Reporting Oitice

\ DETROIT

Office of C::ain

TITIE OF CASE
LA COSA NOSTRA

Tavesligatve srt
genes | a

Report made by
SA ARMAND A, CA!

ise

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

‘Synope!

a

Bureau airtel to New

Report of Si JAMES F,

8/7/68.

York, dated 7/24/68.
KELLY at Cleveland, dated

Report of SA ARMAND A, CAMMAROTA at Detroit,

dated 9/11/67.

lo. Amgeles letter to Detroit, dated 16/23/67.

San Biego airtels to
10/18/67 ,

the Bureau, dated 104/67,

11/24/67, 4/4/68, and 5/10/68,

Kansas City airtel to the Bureau, dated 11/15/67.

= i

ivities both leg.i aad

“family.

Approved

‘Special Agent
In Charge

Do not write in spacos below

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 9°

Louw

#u. 8, GovenNMeNT Prine

FATT GaN] Wand w you by the FET, Gnd uaiter Wasr ia conlese Grew bo dlstibuled gultide the eboney eis

ING OFFICE: 1998 O—-344750.



DE 92-914

INFORMANTS:

DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE
DE

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 10

Identity of Source
former DE 1176-C~TE

Tel
T=2
T=3
T<-4
T=5
THE
T=?
T=8
T=9

is
is
is
is
is
is
is.
is
is

DE
SD
DE
LA
DE
Kc
DE
DE

968-C-TE
1064-C=18
889-C-TE
$448-C-TE
888-C=TE
§88<C=TE
1160-FC
1049-C-TE

T=-10 is DE 1059-C-TE
T-11 is DE 1230-pC
T-12 is DE 1265=pCc

T-13 is DE 862-C-TE

Tol4 is DE 1022-C-TE

= C=
COVER PAGE



PEGS Rew. sete)

‘

FEDERAL “SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

: 8

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
DENVER NEW YORK 8/23/68 7/29-8/21/68
TITLE OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA
DENVER DIVISION

REPORT MADE By

DOUGLAS J, WILLIAMS

TYPED BY

sip

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES:

Denver report of SA PAUL E, BUSH, 9/11/67,
Bureau airtel to New York, 7/24/68,

cats tj
LEADS:

DENVER DIVISION

AT DENVER, COLORADO:
eee aa

Continue investigation through informants and other
logical sources to develop specific information concerning any
organized criminal activities in the States of Colorado and

Wyoming and any possible connections between hoodlums residing

____ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED NONE — DN acquit.

Fus Recoveries | TALS
T

| |
ge esas |

fi CASE HAS BEEN;
convic | auto. FINES SAVINGS,

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [Jves [Jno
PENDING PROSECUTION
Clves Sno

%. bok ¢- aio! (Ret

2 —- New York (92-2315)

SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE,

- Bureau (92-6054)

2 - Denver (92-222)

Dissemination Record of

Request Reed} pF _|
Date Fwd. C

Dry

1 Sections
ateaiad
!

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 11


;

DN 92-222

in the area covered by the Denver Division and La Cosa Nostra.
INFORMANTS;

Tl is SD 1064-C-TE, contacted by SAs of the San
Diego Division,

T2 is DN 341-C-TE, contacted by 8A ILLIAM J. MALONE.

T3 is DN 289-C, contacted by cart EB _ BUSH.
T4 is DN: 288-C-TE, contacted by “SAL WILLIAM J, MALONE.

TS is DN 366-PC, contacted by SAs DOUGLAS J, WILLIAMS
and PAUL E, BUSH,

T6 is JOHN KANCILJA, Pueblo, Colorado Police Officer
contacted by SA ALVIN D, HEWITT.

Coven PAGE WR- Naive

NW 68262 Docld:32305785 Page 12

esi

