oD ennedy Assassination
D ecords Collection Act of

992 [44 LSC 2107 Note),

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10308
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 11

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 10

Postponements: All the postponement in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32243274 Page 1


ote og Date:08/20/93
Page:1

4

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10308

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

| DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE : 01/01/77
PAGES : 13

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BERNING, ELIZABETH L.

DOCUMENT TYPE

| CLASSIFICATION U

RESTRICTIONS 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

PRINTED FORM

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box. #:1.

| (R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32243274 Page 2



5 Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FOR G

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washingten, D.C..20515 Soe ee Tig pe initiated by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) . Effective Date
Elizabeth L. Berniag Lflf79
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

O Appointment
IZ] Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Ci Title Change

Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)

close of business.

— -)
‘Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$24,909.00

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the ‘employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

i. D Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.259__

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:..

| Office of Finance use only:
| Office Code... 2

Payroll...

Fi (Revised: August 1, 1977)
» Copy for: Initiating Office or Committee

i —
NW 68261 a :
Docld:32243274 Page 3 ;

|
|

we



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO°M

an
(Please Use Typewriter ‘ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.“ . (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i it on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| | hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date i \

i
Elizabeth L. Berniag Decenbar 1, 1978 i; i
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action 4 :

GF Solory Adjustment ;

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change :

. O Termination (At close of business on effective date) :

Assasstnations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above ond ending
close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee |]
plus the salary received from the employing offi

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or 01 Professional. - 4 \

ro S
2. 1 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.. :
3. O Joint Committee. ;

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) ;o™

Position Number. If applicable, Level_. _..Step_

| certify that this. authorization is not in violation of 5 U,S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

n Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except. those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classifica

APPROVED:

Choirman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID

Office Code.

| NW 68261 = . 7
Docld:32243274 Page 4 ;


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM :

(Please Use Typewriter. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 seiherilee afta initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

U hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date: \
Elizabeth L. Berning Decembar 1, 1977 ‘
Employee Social Security Number L Type of Action —

D) C Appointment
El Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) |
7 Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending j
s poy f

close of business, :

(If type. of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) <
Position Title | Gross Annual Salary*
Chief Clerk $23,606

*If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.
plus the salary received from the employing office,

'S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee °

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) toy

i 1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. A \

3. O Joint Committee. :

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization: is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. 7 A

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

in Lois Stokes

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House’ Classification Act and for Committee em- ;
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the ‘Committee on the: Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved bythe Committee on House Administration. d
APPROVED: i
eb A
Office of Finance use only: ND ooo ;
Office Code... Benefits i
Monthly Annuity $00 as of 8
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee mercer Soemness

Nw 68261 ——_

Docld:32243274 Page 5


Oo Oe q
PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM © j
bose cs (Please Use ‘Typewriter: U.S. HOUSE OF: REPRESENTATIVES pA oases: at er chants q
} . A on this mus! initialed by the q
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) |
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: 1
4
| | hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) _._ Effective Date
Elizabeth L. Berning October 1, 1977 |
Employee Social Security. Number Type of Action te 4
© Appointment
Employing Office or Committee . MSclary Adjustment 4
Assassinations CO Termination (At close of business on effective date) |
7 qd
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment,’ complete the following information, q
ry ig |
1
Position Title Gross Annual Salary |
Chief Clerk $22,000 j
|
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) i
1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical or [} Professional. a
2. [Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. |
a
3. [] Joint Committee. |
{If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) :
4
Position Number_ |
3
| certify that this. authorization is not .in violation of 5 U,S.C..3110{b), ‘prohibiting ‘the employment: of 4
j
relatives. = oe - :
Date.__________Gctobar 14, 1977 |
eb Member, DivicrondSan) 7 |
4
All appointments and salary adjustments-for employees under the House- Classification Act and for-Committee em- | r
ployees, except those. of the Committee-on Appropriations; the Committee on. the Budget,-and the Joint’ Committees, must ‘ \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. | \
APPROVED: _
e on:House Administration |
Office of Finance use only: H
Office Code________.- j
| Monthly Annuity $____._.___.00 |
| Copy for Initicting Office or Committee .
|
Tho . oe TO _
| NW 68261 oe

Docld:32243274 Page 6


MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth

FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director Ve, 190 t \
lo- (> |

RE: Elizabeth Berning

This is to advise that effective October 1, 1977,
Elizabeth Berning will become Chief Clerk at an annual salary

of $22,000.

| NW 68261 woe
Docld:32243274 Page 7


PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION FORM ==
(Please.Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i i initialed by th
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorizieg officals initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

thereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Elizabeth L. Berning 8/1/77
a Employee Social Security. Number Type of Action " :
CO Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Bsolory Adjustment
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action.is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Secretary $27,560

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or] Professional.

n
>

[A] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [] Joint Committee.

{If Employee of an: Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

if applicable, Level__-_-__-. Step:

| certify: that -this authorization is not. in violation of 5» U.S.C. 3110(b); ‘prohibiting: the’ employment. of
relatives. ° 2

Date. August 2 19.77

All-appointments and salary.adjustments for‘employees.-under: the:House ‘Classification: Act and for Gommitteeem*

ployees, except those: of the:Committee.on Appropriations, the-Committeeon’ the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.”

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

inistration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

i
Nw 68261
'| Docld:32243274 Page 8

Copy. for Initiating Office or Commiitee

pBad dita!

3
i

4
4
i
i
}



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM ~ -

{Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on as orm ust be initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| | hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date

Elizabeth L. Berning 5/1/77
Employee Social Security Number .

Cl Appointment

Employing Office or Committee y w& Solary Adjustment ;

Type of Action

CO Termination (At close of business on effective date)

: Assassinations

(If type of action isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$16,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) |

1. DJ Standing Committee: Staff—[J Clerical or {7] Professional. .

2.

x
o
g
3
2
a
g
Q
a
$
a
a
§
3
3.
3
g
>
gS
>
g
<
I
=
2
g
&
a
&
gq
i.
&
¢
la}
§
s
é
3

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item. below.) ‘ a

Position Number_______._______. If applicable, Level____= +. Step_a a_i. :
|. certify that. this authorization: is notin violation of 5 -U.S.C..-3110(b};~ prohibiting .the employment -of

relatives. -

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official) ~

Chairman

“xc: All_appointments. and: salary adjustments :for. employees. under: the: House: Classification Act-and-for GCommittee..em=
ployees,.except those. of:.the Committee on.Appropriations;the Committee’.on: the Budget, and..the Joint: Committees; must?
» be approved by the .Committee.on: House Administration. Gara vee - Apes ey U .

APPROVED: io
i
Office of Finance use only: . ; y i |
Office Code... f
Monthly Annuity $_--. 00 a
|
Copy for Initicting Office or Committee |

NW 68261 en _ =
' Docld:32243274 Page 9 .


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES > (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

F 7 on this form must be initialed by the
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action: »

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
Elizabeth L. Berning apa] |
j Employee Social Security Number. Type of Action |

1 Appointment

L Employing Office or Committee OiSelary Adjustment

[1] Termination (At close of business on éffective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$33,600

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (1 Standing Committee: Staff—[ Clerical or [] Professional.

2. [Hl Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465___of 95thCongress.

3. [1] Joint Committee.

(If Employee:of an‘Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______________. If applicable, Level________.Step_____._.

I. certify that this authorization is ‘not. in: violation. of 5  U.S.C,..3110(b},. prohibiting the employment of
relatives. ° y nay

poate

apieseenmrton

ric! and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for-employees“under the House: Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees; except. those: of the Committee-on’Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and ‘the Joint'Committees, must
be approved by the: Committee on House: Administration.

APPROVED:.

mmittee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

oe Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Nw 68261 ~ ae
Docld:32243274 Page 10



PAYROLL: AUTHORIZATION FORM x
(Please Use Typewriter ~~ U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 seheceing ation} aes. by Ime
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: . °° --2 = .
I hereby authorize the following payroll action: « rs

|

Employee Name.(First-Middle-Last) ok Effective Date: : i \

Elizabeth L. Berning 21-77 }

: - Employee Social Security Number et - Type of Action «- ;

[once = or" | 1 Appointment , 4
Employing Office or Committee a Salary Adjustment :
Select Committee on Assassinations (1 Termination {At close of business on effective date) ;

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$10,000.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. EJ Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [2] Professional.

2: (°} Special or Select Committee: Authority=H. Res.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer-of the House, complete-item. below.) am Ne

Position Number. f applicable, Levels: 2. Stepec ce.

1, certify that this. authorization. is :not in. violation. -of.-5.-U.$.G::-3110(b),-prohibiting the employment: of
relatives.

| Date__

ignaiure of Authorizing Official

Heary B. Gonzalez

Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman

|
1
|
1
1
1
1
!
1
'
1
1
i
1
1
i
1
i
i
i
i
1
i
i
t
'
i
1
1
1
1
i
i
i

All appointments-and solary-adjustments-for.employees. under. the.House: Classification ‘Act..and. for Committee em-

|. ~~ ployees,:except those. of the Committee.on:Appropriations; the..Committee ‘on: the: Budget,-and :the: Joint.Gommittees, must Tl

be approved by the-Committee on House Administrations: «1-7 suena : ;

i

a

Office of Finance use only: : i

Office Code... |

Monthly Annuity’$__-_»_-___.00 |

L, ea - _ 3
| NW 68261 eae a _

 Docld:32243274 Page 11


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. . ~

| »- (Please Use Typewriter oe US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES .__ (Any erasures, corrections, or: changes

) - or Ballpoint Pen) « ”.” Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorigiog afflal.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action: >
|
r 7 . Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Z TT Effective Date | \
beta L. Seraiag : V3e27 7 i
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action |
. ; oO ee :
: - Employing Office or Committee © Salary Adjustment

( Termination (At close of business on effective date)

rations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) |

Position Title ~ : | Gross Annual Salary |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, D Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical of [5] Professional. . . | 5

| ; 2. F] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) ~

Position Number. If applicable, Level________ Step,

| certify that this authorization: is not. in violation of 5 U.S.C, -3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of !
relatives. 1

All appointments and salary-adjustments for employees under the“House. Classification Act and. for Committee em-
= =~ ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the»Committee on-the Budget;-and the Joint Committees, must= ~~
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

- APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code™

“ Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
ial -- - ee baw ~ _ _—- ——$ ~~ - = -—-—__

Nw 68261 ae
Docld:32243274 Page 12 :



TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

Please consider this verification that
Elizabeth L. Berning began employment, permanent
full-time status, with the House of Representatives

Select Committee on Assassinations January 1, 1977.

LE

Rebecca Wheeler Martin
Chief Clerk

January 31, 1977

NW 68261 oe
Docld:32243274 Page 13



“ PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM: eo :
; Please Use T: it U.S. HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, ‘corrections, or changes
. “e Ballpoint Pen} fs a bes ooo Washington, D.C..20515 7 x ‘on this form must be initialed by the |

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk ofthe House of Representatives: : : 7 8

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

nee Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date |
‘ i
Elizabeth L. gerning oUF Poy
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action ‘ i

CJ Appointment

Employing Office or Committee D Salary Adjustment. \
Setect Comuittes on Assassinations [J Termination (At close of business on effective-date)

(If type of action is an Appointment:or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| ~ “Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Secretar 316,500

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (J Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical of [] Professional. .

|
i
t
|
|
i
|
|
|
i
|
|
i
_ |
2. 1 Special or Select Committee: Authority=H: Res. __Congress. |
p i ;
3. [1 Joint Committee. |
i
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) jw
Position Number__ If applicable, Level Step____ |
i
| certify: that, this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting: the employment of» * |
relatives. |
|
1
|
} . All. appointments and-salary-adjustments for employees: under the House Classification Act and:-for Committee“em-.~ |
| ployees,-except those. of the:Committee: on Appropriations; the: Committee on-the Budget; and-the Joint-Committees,-must 1
| be approved by the Committee on House Administration: a
| |
APPROVED:.__ i
Chairman, Committee on House Administration |
| = !
Office of Finance use only: ’ |
Office Code________-- | |
Monthly Annuity $__________-00 |
{
|

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Nw 68261 So ae
Docld:32243274 Page 14



MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather I
‘daughter wife stepmother : |
“*, brother father-in-law stepbrother |
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin |

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

“I am not related ma

I. am related by the following relationship

be hak yo

Signature of Employee

hw 68261 ~
1 Docld:32243274 Page 15

