AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TITLE
DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

NW 64954 Docld:34530590 Page 1

TO :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CSF/INSCOM
194-10006-10298
DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

: AC640653W-PAGES 7-9

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

USA

CO, 66TH MI GP
DCSI, USAREUR
MESSAGE

03/20/72

3

KAMINSKI, HANS D

CI INTEREST

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

3

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

03/07/95

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94. DUPLICATE OF PAGES
12-14. é

ler the John vrs
Fissassination Records Collection Act off

1? Note}, Caset:NW



ode ta Sa-CUc ensue TBs

ERY UGUee ICN ONLY

wad MAR Ta

ch 0G GOTH NL @P GUNKCH FRG //AEUTNL-~OP-CE/

TO NCSL USARSUE HELDELBERG ERG/*AEAGE-ef (90074

|

OWING MESSAGE LS RETRANSNITTAD FOR YOUR LNSURMATION:

Fu CO 265TH ML CO FRANKFURT PRG //ALUTML-F-Cars

TO CO.S6TH BI GP MUNLCH FRG //ARUTHA -CEs/

REGRADED UNCLASSI
ot [On 2 eee

: IBY CDR US4INSCOM FORO
ES ; [AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.18

ARUTNE +f -CE

SUBJECT 3 LNCIDEND OF POSSIBLE CL UNTEREST
ae AT liv HOURS, 1 FES 72, LT HAYGOGD, NQs; UGTH USA ARTILLERY

DETACHUENT, SGEST (HC S8isds FEDERAL RE

“iG Ge GERMANY ¢

dy
GOWLACTED THE DUESSELEORY FIELD GrFICE To REPORT AN INCIDENT O02
AN UNIDENTISLED PERSON ATTEMPTING TO ELLLCIT OFFIECLA LREQRMATION
€ TEAM, cOTK USA ARTILLERY DETACHMENT, DA ELN

te 7

| NW 64954 Docld:34530590 Page 2


a Sa lata tata eet eet Ee
Qe LT KULESZAs COMMABRING OFFICER, G THAM, COTM USA ARTILLERY

DETACHMENT, STATED That HE WAS ZNFORMED BY A MiemaR GF HES UNIT
THAT AN ATTEMPT TO GATAIN GUFLCLAL INFORMATION HAB TAKEN PLACE
IM DA BLN ON 31 JAN 72s KULESZA WAS ABLE TO DELERMINE THAT
TUREL GTHER MEMBERS OF KIS UNLT HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY THE SANE
PERSON IN THE AREA 1M AM ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN LNFORNATION«

de THE POLOWING LISTED LMDLYIDUALS OF C TEAM, oTHK YSA ARTILLERY

"REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED *
ON 2SePOF.

PASE 2 UUFT? 13 2

DETACHMENT BERR APPAGACHED BY THE UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL §

Ao PETER Ds HERPSy PFC, p 12) (0)
Be PHILLIP We MAY, PEC,P™ ceo 12) )] CUSTOREAL AGENT»

Co STEPHEN R. WILSON, SP4s CLERK »
Dy ROBERT Me CRERDy SP&» Sg 2m | GUARD 6
4, ALL LISTED MEMBERS OF © TEAM HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED BY SA‘S

OF TUESSELDORE FIELD OFFICE.
5. A DESGREPTION OF THE ENDIVIDUAL SOLICITING THE INFORMATION 1S
AS FOLLOWDE
As NAMES "JOUN THE DER GAT” AKAs JOAN DEE JAY ASA: HOH
Bo GECUPATIONS DESC SON EY AT THE LORD NELSON ren #iN
Ce KETONE SEK VEER
De WRIGHES 190 FUNDS oS ee . w
Ee BUILDS SLEGHT
“Pa HAIR! BLACK WITH LONG SIBEBURNS
Gs DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS: NONE
Ge ATTEMPTS ARE CURRENTLY BELNG MADE THROUGH GERMAN CHANNELS To
BOTARN POSLTIVE LDENYEFICATION OF JONN DER JAY.
| Te JOHN DEE JAY SPEACKS RUSSEAN GERMAN SPANISM AND ENGLISH+ HE HAS
|). EXPRESSED PROTEST SENTIMENTS AND HAS SALD HE HAD BEEN To

\
L ~ 8
ENW 64954 Docld:34530590 Page 3


3 UWUFTE.

FORGO, USSR, HERE HE LEARNED TO SPLAK ENGLISH» HE OLA

GTO

HAVE A COUSIN Ok NEPHEY 440 15 A MAJOR IN THE GERMAN DEMOCUATEC

@EPYBLIC (GDR) ARMY. EE ALLY

BLY TRAVELS REQUENTLYTO THE G

AND HAS EXPRESSED A DESLAL TO RE

eT

2 TG LivE BECAUSE

HE HATER Th FEDERAL HEPUSLIC GF GERMANYs HE 1S BATREMELY

LEEGABLE ABOUT THINGS PERTALNING TO THE MLLITARY. HE

JQCATION, ENTERMEDLATE

AND TLRAL

5

VOY WHOSE MESSION Wis TO LACHANGE

WARHEADS AL SASUOM UNITS. HON DEE JAY ASSED HOBERT &

EBENTIFLED IN PARA 4 TO BRING i SOME WAR AND ARIY

Hy JUF WAR STORIES, NOTHING ABOUT NGZAD OR

SANRAS (SFRCLAL ANMNUNITIONS RECCONITLON AND

SYSTEM).

as JOHN DBE

SASCON HEADQUASTENS »

HE FES 725

igs INVESTIGATIVE ACTION WLLL CONTINUE

RESULTS WILL BE FORWARDED UPON NEI

ae
P2898
| REGREQED INCLASSIFIED
sy c had |
Pa uss, ML FOUPO.
(AUTH Para.t-603°DOD 5200.18}
NIBH ba 9

[pownananeo At 32EAR wrenvas: |
MOT AUTONMAHEALLY DECLASSIFIED |
1D DIR 6200.10

NW 64954 Docld:34530590 Page 4
