JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

~ 6/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90025-10012
RECORD SERIES: HQ
)
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 92-12877-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: = 11/09/1971

“PAGES: 18
SUBJECTS :
ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE
ISADORE MILLER i!
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/29/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

val

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 1

lerthe John ne
Records Collection Act off

"107 Note), Case#:Nw


DL 165-14

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 11/10/72 DL 466-C-TE advised st%&jat is presently
bookmaking from Telephone Number 268-1790.

On 10/19/72, EB 655-C, who is well acquainted with
the gambling element in tl land-Odessa, Texas,area advised
he has never known "PINKIE" RODEN to be a bookmaker. He
stated RODEN will bet on football games and possibly on occasional
horse races and does not customarily associate with bookmakers.

. This informant advised that no doubt due to RODEN's
lengthy residence in the West Texas area, and the fact that he
has been associated in the ownership of hotels as well as liquor
stores, he no doubt is acquainted with gamblers and bookmakers.

He stated there have been rumors in the past that
RODEN has backed bookmakers in previous years, but that he,
_the source, has never been able to actually substantiate this.”
On 9/20/72,-DL 466-C-TE stated he is betting with PUNY
2)” WINNINGHAM and is receiving line information from WINNINGHAM and
JOENPICCOLA. WINNINGHAM's present number is 268-0109. Source
statet he settles up with WINNINGHAM at JOHN ELI STONE's restaurant
on Mockingbird Lane on Monday nights.
rae On 9/27/72 DL 466-CG-te stated he is a "beard" for
€ OHN.-EL: ONE, He stated that PUNY WINNINGHAM is laying off to

STONE eX
/6/72 DL 845-C-TE advised he is still bearding

money for .JOQH! ‘ONE and stated that STONE, he believes, is receiving
line directly from Las Vegas, Nevada, but does not know where
STONE receives this line. STONE furnishes this line to PUNY
ORE YL

i WINNINGHAM, ISAD! ILLER and an’ indiidual named POP (Possibly

CLARENCE HILL). jh

7 Be

COVER PAGE

y wr

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 2 >



FD-263 (Rev. 12-19-67) :

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF dren DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
DALLAS \ DALLAS, 11/9/71 6/22/71 - 10/15/71
TITLE OF CASE VO REPORT MADE BY

ANTHONY ICIS CATERINE, H. LAMAR MEYER

TYPED BY

cenf/gm i
j

aka ~ CHARACTER OF CASE
Anthony Caterine,
Anthony F

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REFERENCES: San Antonio letters to Dallas dated 6/25/71
~~ and 9/27/71.

-P.-
LEADS

MILWAUKEE

AT MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. Verify birth date and
birth place of ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE at the Bureau of

- Vital Statistics to clarify dates given previously of

4/5/36 and 4/19/36, at Milwaukee.
DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS, 1) Contact Internal Revenue
ee es

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED CK) NONE IACQUIT:F case.tas SEEN:

convic [auto.

Fus. FINES SAVINGS Recoveries | TALS

PENDING PROSECUTION

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [C]vEs JNO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

- USA, Fort Worth 7
2 - Milwaukee a ‘OPIES
hick. :
3 - Dallas (92-810) FOR REVIEW f BiH /OR * DELIVERY

OVER SIXWONTHS C]vEs Dino
re necanen ne DO NOT WRITE-IN SPACES BELOW
- Bureau —

TO HSCA RE

Dissemination Record of Attached Repo fe

ial aan as

Agenc / Wan
2 Reed, [=~ 7— fe a ; cae he We
Date Fwd. | : j core
nota AP i
By Oep 7

DSNOV 22 1971 COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page’3



DL 92-810

listed CATERINE's home as Apartment 132, 5829 Blackwell
Street. His wife, CONNIE CATERINE, was listed as pro-
prietor of the Continental Shop, 6102 Luther Lane.

On 2/11/63, Lieutenant DONALD BIRD, Dallas
Police Department, advised that ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE,
Apartment 109, 5222 Belmont, was found in possession of
a roulette wheel, other gambling devices and 29. decks of
marked playing cards together with glasses for reading
these cards, At that time he lived with EDWARD R, HAMPTON,
a police character, and operated the Castaway Club, 5600
West Mockingbird Lane, Dallas. CATERINE was reportedly JE
an associate and fréénd of JOSEPy-CAMPISI, who operated the, >
Egyptian Lounge in Dallas.

c

On 8/12/66, RE, LACEY, Lemmonwood Motel, 3524
Inwood, Dallas, advised TONY CATRRINE operated the Inner
Circle Club and the Terrace Restaurant at that motel.

He added CATERINE was losing money on a daily basis and
was turning the club over to one NICK KARGAKOS whose son}
was a partner with CATERINE in the Pretty Kitty Kat Club
on Mockingbird Lane.

CATERINE, at that time, was living in Apartment
947 at the Lemmonwood Motel. He listed as a reference the
Bank of Dallas and ARTHUR AKE, president of the First Bank
and Trust, Richardson, Texas; EDDIE SIMONE of Simone Tailors;
MORGAN MAXFIELD and WILSON F, COLLIER, attorney. Bank
records at that time listed CATERINE's business under the
name K Enterpriss Liquor Pool ~ reserve account, His
address was Post Office Box 35044, and he indicated two
accounts at the First Bank and Trust, Richardson, Texas,
in the name of Chez Maxine Terrace and Inner Circle account.
He also said he had three accounts at the Bank of Dallas;
Kitty Kat Liquor account, Inner Circle account and Kitty, Kat
operating account.

On 8/15/66, PCI ROBERT LOUIE LEWELLEN advised
CATERINE was making a considerable amount of money at
the Pretty Kitty Kat Club on Mockingbird Lane through

- D-
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 4



>

DL 92-810

CATERINE stated the Pretty Kitty t Club
was financed for him by WILKERSON and FRANK) IX;
however, he owed money at that time only to WILKERSON,
who is an older woman, He added that FELIX is one of
the three FELIX brothers who owns Pompeii Restaurant on
Mockingbird Lane in Dallas. He added that he also owns
the Inner Circle Club at the Lemmonwood Motel which is
managed by LEE DIXON. His brother-in-law, GARY ORTMEIR,
operates the Blue Chip Club in the Americana Apartments,
5400 Cedar Springs in Dallas, ORTMEIR is from Seattle,
Wastington, and was described as a white male, 21 years
of age, six feet tall, dark hair, 180 pounds,

He advised he maintains another apartment at
3544 Inwood, Apartment 347, which is at the Lemmonwood
Motel, for one LINDA HUTCHISON, She is presently a
receptionist at the Pretty Kitty Kat Club. :

CATERINE advised that the FELIX brothers started
a company in Richardson, Texas, to manufacture square i
poker chips and he has invested some money in this concern.

On 12/20/66, DL 121-C advised that WANDA JOE !
WEBB and LESTER RAY HENDERSON have some type of connection |
with CATERINE that is badieved to be illegal. WEBB and |
HENDERSON were both driving late model Cadillacs at that |
time and were suspected by police of illegal prostitution
activities . |

On 2/7/67, DL 121-C advised TONY CATERINE ;
claims to have worked around Phenix City, Alabama, several |
years ago at which time he was arreted in nearby Columbus,
Georgia, for gambling and bookmaking. He estimated the
time as sometime during 1953, CATERINE allegdly operates |
the Inner Circle Club and the Purty Pussy Cat Club and the {
Americana Club. He also owns a dealership for suits made |
in Hong Kéng and sells dope on the side. CATERINE and an
associate, PETE (LNU), allegedly setap gambling games
together and it is not unusual for thm to wim $11,000.00
or more in a single night.

ae \
COVER PAGE a

BiceesesseetreottSaaiat cenit eee SEES ese isd esdtteced nsshid cm oeazsniiapidsaainnaiRESGAONGSUnOUcaasEDsAnieaaananaio™

i 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 5


DL 92-810

On 4/14/67, DL 221-C advised in the past
TONY CATERINE has sant boys to Mexico to buy Mexican
coins to use in coin changers in automatic washing
machines, He has also reportedly burglarized telephones
which had been ripped off the wwlls in public places,

On 6/21/67, DL.324% advised that TONY CATERINE, ies
owner of the Pretty Kitty Kat Club, stated he had won a
lot of money from the VOURAS brothers whrh they had gotten
in a Bank Robbery. The VOURAS brothers, DON and JAMES,
robbed the Diamond National Bank in late 1965 and obtained
$41;000.00, They were convicted, but only about $14,000.00
of the loot was recovered. CATERINE and his associates
have allegedly set up Bank Robberies in the past as well
as "crap" games to win Bank Robbery loot.

On 7/19/67, DL 221-C advised GEORGE UA TEMS
manufactures "juice" machines, an electric devic® to =
control dice and has sold one to TONY CATERINE in Dallas, / Boose
No information was furnished concerning how the machine :
was used by CATERINE,

On 4/22/68, DL 324-PC advised that TONY TER INE
had opened a new club called The Loser's and RONNI Taonn Zest
was managing it for CATERINE. The Loser's is allege
located on West Mockingbird Lane.

On 2/17/67, DL 208-C adiised that TONY CATERINE
originally came from Kansas City and that the CAMPISI
brothers set him up in the Castaways Club in Dallas.

On 4/8/69, a new 137 case was opened entitled
“ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE, DL 414-PC, TECIP, Dallas
Division," and assigned the number 137-2353. This case
was opened in view of CATERINE's cooperation in the
past as well as Imving been an active gambler and nightclub
owner in the Dallas area, He admittedly was associated
with the following persons:

-G-
COVER PAGE Pest

i

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 6


, DL 92-810

JOHN ELI STONE (Currently top Echelon informan) ;
ISADORE MILLER (Subject of current Dallas case) ;

RUSSELL D, MATTHEWS and SOPHI! GEBRON (Subjects
of Dallas gambling case;

PHILLIP STEPHENS BOSCOE (bookmaker and LCN suspect) ;

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO and CHARLES EDWARD CIVELLO
(LCN members in Dallas and liquor store operators) ;

PHILLIP STEIN (on Federal probation after IRS
conviction) .

On 2/13/70, PC CATERINE advised he is anticipating
the expansion of his club activities to New Orleans, Louisiana,
and Little Rock, Arkansas. He said there was pressure from
CARLOS MARCELLO, LCN boss in New Orleans, on club owners in
that area so that he should be able to furnish some information
about MARCELLO,

‘ On 5/6/70, CATERINE advised he would not buy a
club in New Orleans since he found that CARLOS MARCELLO would
be a twenty per cent partner in the club, MARCELLO has money
available to invest in such club; however, CATERINE was afraid
his eighty per cent ownership would not give him eighty per cent
control and therefore would not close the deal.

On 9/1/71, CATERINE advised he has opened and is
operating the "Losers" club in Memphis, Tennessee, and must
Spend much time there as a resit. He said this club was
located in the Holiday Inn of downtown Memphis.

Investigative period of this report extended to
include an extensive review at Dallas concerning the subject
about whom a report had never been written,

-H-
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 7


DL 92-810 ire

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS
T-1 is DL 488-C, contacted by SA Hi, LAMAR
MEYER on 7/7/71, re CATERINE and STALLCUP,

T-2 is RAY DYER, Dun and Bradstreet, 2020
Live Oak, Great American Building, Dallas, Texas,

- Ik.
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 8



Cc ae)

FD-204, (Rev. 3-3-59)

Copy to:

Report of:
Date:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - USA, Fort Worth

H, LAMAR MEYER Offices Dallas, Texas
11/9/71

Field Office File #: 92-810 . Bureau File #:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE, a white male, age 35,
was born 4/5/36, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin (not confirmed).
He first came to Dallas in 1958 as a law student at Southern
Methodist University (SMU). He dropped out of law school and
with financial backing bq@a~n operating night clubs, the first
being the Castaways. In 1966, he married CONNIE Li CATERINE,
nee ORTMEIR, and they now have three children, He presently
resides with his wife and children at 6221 Highgate, Dallas,
telephone number 369-079, He is a U. Si, Army veteran of two
years and obtained an Honorable Discharge. He is not known
to be a member of La Cosa Nostra (LCN); however, has been known
to contact CARLOS MARCELLO, LCN boss, New Orleans, Louisiana.
He is known to associate with known gamblers, burglars, and
hoodlums in the Dallas area, He presently operates a corpora-
tion which includes K-Catering, Inc,, The Loser's Club, the
Uncle Samts Pearl Street Warehouse, also a night club, CATERINE
has been arrested in the past for being a Disorderly Person,
Drunk in a Car, Possession of Gambling Paraphernalia, Violation
of a Dance Hall Ordinance, and Investigation of Theft. He is
suspected of selling stolen jewiry, dealing in narcotics,
operating prostitution, and running illegal gambling operations.

-~ Pe

‘This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and ts loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

U, 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1969 © - 951-076

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 ‘Page 9


DL 92-810

VIII. SOCTAL SECURITY NUMBER

On September 2, 1971, ANITA WILSON, supra,
advised that her records listed CATERINE's Socia.
Security Number as 480-38-3906.

TX. MILITARY RECORD

On September 2, 1971, T-2 advised that
ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE is a veteran of the U. S.
Army. His period of service is recorded as from
January 28, 1955 to November 9, 1957, and his
assigned serial number was RA1 49208 CATERINE
was honorably released from active duty as a Specialist
Second Class, and transferred to the U. S. Army Reserve
. to complete his military obligation. Records indicate
tht he was honorably discharged from the U. S. Army
Reserve on December 31, 1962 as a Management Specialist,
Fifth Grade, (Pay and travel Clerk). CATERINE's
military record did not reflect any disciplinary
actions or nervous or mental disorders.

X. . SELECTIVE SERVICE STATUS

- Also, on ‘September 2, 1971, T-2 advised

that the subject's Selective Service record indicates

that his Selective Service Number assigned was 13 77 36 49.
His Selective Service record was constructed by Local
Board 77, Des Moines, Iowa. The Selective Service

status of CATERINE at this time is unkmown, however
presumed to be V-A in view of his married with children

8 Se

XI. MEMBERSHIP IN LA COSA N
AAFTA OR OTHER CRIMINA

Investigation to date has not shown any definite
connection between ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE and organized
crime members. He has however, in the past, made telephonic
contact with night clubs in the New Orleans, Louisiana area
known to be backed or controlled by CARLOS MARCELLO, LCN
member in that area,

A file review indicates that CATERINE, while
: ie

OSTRA (LCN) OR
RGANTZATIONS

ORGAN NS

— i : )

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 10



DL 92-810

talking to SA HAROLD R. LIVERETT, on February 6, 1970,
advised that he was anticipating expanding his club
activities to the New Orleans, Louisiana and Little
Rock, Arkansas areas. CATERINE noted to LIVERETT

at that time that there was pressure from CARLOS
MARCELLO to be included in the club ownership.

Three months later, on May 6, 1970, while again
talking to SA LIVERETT, CATERINE advised he had
cancelled plans to open a club in New Orleans in

that CARLOS MARCELLO insisted on a 20 per cent
partnership in the proposed club. CATERINE cancelled
his plans, and stated he did so because he was afraid
that. his do per cent ownership would not give him

80 per cent control of the club in the New Orleans area.

(b) CRIMINAL RECORD (HH #969 905 Cc)

On September 20, 1971, KAY SPRIGGS, Dallas Police
Department, Identification Division, advised that her records
concerning ANTHONY FRANCIS CATERINE, also lmown as
TONY FRANCIS CATERINE, reflected the following information:

CONTRIBUTOR OF NAME AND ARRESTED OR
FINGERPRINTS NUMBER RECEIVED CHARGE DISPOSITION

PD, Honolulu, ea 10/1/57 Disorderly Released to

Hawaii CATERINE, Person Hawaiian Armed
#A-37502-D-1 Service Police
$0, Dallas, ANTHONY F. 8/23/58 Drunk in $50.00 fine :-
Texas CATERINE, Car (Farmers
- #93488 Branch, Texas
PD)
PD, Dallas, ANTHONY 2/9/63 Investigation Dismissed on
Texas FRANCIS of Theft and 8/23/58
CATERINE , Possession of
#55699 : Gambling
: Paraphernalia
PD, Dallas, ANTHONY 12/5/63 Violation Dismissed,
Texas ~ FRANCIS : Dance Hall 9/15/64
CATERINE, Ordinance
#55699 _

= _ : os]

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 11


ps,

DL* 92-810

On May 28, 1971, ANTHONY CATERINE said that due to

DAVID WALBERG being unable to meet the base agreements
this business has been discontinued, and future operations
are undetermined at the time. This club is now in
operation again as. the Playgirl Show Lounge.

On September 10, 1971, T-1 advised that
ANTHONY FRANCIS’ CATERINE had recently acquired
‘Uncle Sam's (Pearl Street) Warehouse, a night club :
- located at 2609 North Pearl Street. ‘The telephone :
number is listed as 742-3269, Manager of this business fi
is listed as. TRAVIS BYRON STALLCUPP. The owner was
listed’as TONY CATERINE, and the grand opening occurred
on September 6, 1971.

On August-19, 1971, CATHY COLLINS, 2525
Turtle Creek, a rtment 216, Dallas, and former employee
of CATERINE at The Losers Club in Dallas, advised that
CATERINE allegedly gets the first chance to hire any
gone entertainment personalities that come to town,

lue to his connections in Las Vegas, Nevada. This |
hiring is apparently done through star Trek Attractions.

(f£.) — OF AMUSEMENTS OR HANGOUTS
TERQUGNeD

Places of amusements and hangouts of ANTHONY
FRANCIS CATERINE are unknown, in that he spends most of
his. time at his places of business.

CATERINE allegedly maintains an apartment for
a girl friend, LINDA KAYE HUTCHINSON. ‘This dwelling is
a duplex apartment and is located near The Losers Club
on East Mockingbird Lane in Dallas. HUTCHINSON allegedly
has had two children by CATERINE, and CATERINE is faithful
in the maintenance of this femity. The two children are
named CHRISTY, age seven, and DANA, age five,

The above information concern: HUTCHINSON

was furnished on August 19, 1971, by CA’ COLLINS, a
former Losers Club employee, who is associated with her.

(g.) TRAVEL

\ On September 2, 1971, T-1 advised that ANTHONY
FRANCIS CATERINE infrequently travels to such places as Las

15

NW 68262 Docld:32324169 Page 12
