i
|

a ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

. 992 (44 USC 2107 Note].
‘aset:NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10359
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponement: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

‘NW 68261
Docld:32243325 Page 1


° Date:08/20/93
~ Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

AGENCY INFORMATION

IDENTIFICATION FORM
_

| AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068~-10359

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

DATE : 08/07/78
PAGES : 4

| SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

GOLDEN, PAUL T.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

. COMMENTS
Box-#:1.

! (R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
Docld:32243325 Page 2



(Please Use Typewriter. C) U.S. HOUSE OF ‘REPRESENTATIVES’ _) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes 4

or Ballpoint Pen) Washingtan, D.C. 20515 suthorizing official) initialed by the 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO ~

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

|

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date 4

|

Paul T. Goldea 12/31/78 1
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action Z|

CO Appointment . 4

C Salary Adjustment 7 +4

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change |

ir Termination (At close of business on effective date) i
| Assagsinations Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending im
close of business___________ ) 3
2 : Specify Date |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) /
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* — i

|

* If employee is a civi
plus the salary rec

ervice annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee {
from the employing office,

| (If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 3
| 1. Cl Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or (1 Professional. 1
}

2.100 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th nares.

3. O Joint Committee. 1

|
|
| _ (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) y
| 1
|

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______. ‘

q

| certify that this authorization. is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of -

relatives. i
Dore Tesuery 2 a 4

. (Signature of Authorizing Official) q

| LOUIS STOKES '
|

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee ‘em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must 4
| be approved by the Committee on House Administration. |
APPROVED:. j
|
Office of Finance use only: ID oe 4

Office Code... 2. (are (its ae q

Monthly Annuity $________.00 as of __- ee Payroll________-_-------------

- 5 (Revised: August}, 1977) 4

Copy for Initiating Office or: Committee oes : eonbs tabs |

——a - Be - re _ ne |
Th

W 68261 aa > a

Docld:32243325 Page 3 : oe i



a
|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. wy .
(Please Use Typewriter. <_)° U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (Any erasures, correction, or changes

i ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing offen}

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Eniployee Name (First-Middie-Last) __ Effective Date
Paul T. Golden 8/7/78
L Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

¥
Gi Appointment

= O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change

‘ Termination (At close of business on effective date)

1 Leave without pay (Be;

19 with effective date above and ending
)

close of business.

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Xerox/Messenger $11,500.00

foie

* If emoloyee is a'civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.

2a Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 296 _of 95 tN Congress.

3. D2 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level________. Step,

| certify. that this authorization is not in violation of .5. U.S.C. 3110(b),. prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Title= if Member, District and State)

“ , All appointments. and salary adjustments for.employees: under the. House Classification Act.and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: : 5
Office Code

TRevied hog 1,197)
Copy for:Initiating Office or Committee mo

1 iw 68261 —— —— _.

Docld:32243325 Page 4 : we ;

AD BAN A ates lta



W 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father i nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son ‘husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother : father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law . half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and‘date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

wi am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[J Yam related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

PUM. oe

Signature of Employee ate

ocid:32243325 Page 5


MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer \
ELizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

\
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special counserty © WL \

|

|
|: DATE: August 9, 1978 |
|.

RE: Paul T. Golden |

Please be advised that Mr. Paul T. Golden has
joined the HSCA staff as a Xerox/Messenger.
Mr. Golden's starting date will be August 7,

1978, and his starting salary will be $11,500.00.

Please contact me if you have any questions \

concerning this matter.

ICM:

|| Nw 68261 Se ae ;
| Docld:32243325 Page 6 : : u

