JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/201
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

“DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178-10002-10103

TESTIMONY

CLIFFORD, CLARK M. MARCH 17, 1975

Document Information

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

992 [44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw

TESTIMONY OF CLARK M. CLIFFORD.

03/17/1975
8

CLIFFORD, CLARK M
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
BAY OF PIGS

PFIAB

KENNEDY, JOHN F.
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS,
CIA

TESTIMONY
Top Secret

IB

Redact
07/02/1993

Excerpts from Clifford's testimony, pages 1588,1589,1593-95, 1599.

v9.1

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 1


PI

178-10002-10103 TOP SECRET

VOLUME 10

PRESIDENT ’s COMMISSZON

ON CXA ACTIVITIES’

Monday, March 17, 1975

Washington, DY Cy

worded blg-
ried

WASHINGTON, D.C._
410 First Street, S.E., 20003
Phone
(202) 544-6000

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 2

ORIGINAL

AUWdAIT CHOI “HY ATwuYID FHL WOYA AdOOOLOHA

FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA.

4055 Chain Bridge Rd., 22030
Phone
(703) 273-2400


HANBACK: amt
ag

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000!
a

4 Laurence R.

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL.

14

16
ly
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 3

FOP -SECRET—

CONTENTS

TESTIMONY OF:

5 Clark M. Clifford

Houston

PAGE

1569

1647



Phone (Area 202) 544-60000)
iS)

-10

ll

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

R22

23

24

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

FOP-SECRET 1588

the next eight years of President Eisenhower's Administration. ©
There were some strengthening acts, as far as unification

were concerned, under President Eisenhower which I think were
exceedingly desirable. I do not know of any legislative
action during those eight years regarding the intelligence
community.

Then my next relationship to this subject came in
the spring of 1961. President Kennedy was then Pee siacne!
and he phoned and asked that I come over. And I went over
at once. It was just after the Bay of Pigs, and in all of
the years I had known him I had never seen)shim as serious as
he was on that occasion. The substance of his comment was
that he had just had a major disaster and he said that the
reason for the Bay of Pigs being such a catastrophe was one,
he said -- and this is in effect -- I made the wrong decision;
two, I made it because I had the wrong advice; three, I got
the wrong advice because the facts upon which the advice was
based were wrong; and the facts were wrong because our
intelligence was faulty.

He indigated - that he had been informed that as soon
as the invading group reached the shores of Cuba that the
people would rise up against Castro, they would be down on the
beaches tossing roses at our men, and then they would
triumphantly march through the streets of Havanna. Well, it

was a real tragedy, and he said that’ I cannot endure another

; .

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 4

AAVAWIT CYOT “WY GIWYaS AHL WOUd AdOOOLOHa



amt 22 -

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

ae

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

a

18

19

20

21

R22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

-FOP-SEECRET

one. He said I could not survive another disaster of this

ai vss BQ. 28

kind. So he said I am creating an intelligence board, and

- he had already talked to Jim Killian of MIT and he said I am

making him the head of the board and I have gotten some
scientists and some military men and others, and I awant this
board first to investigate, I want them to investigate all of
the foreign operations of the CIA, and.I want you to recommend
changes that will improve that operation.

So that the Vice President can pick up the theme,
I had gone through, Governor, the earlier phases of my
experience with the intelligence operation, and then I had
gotten through down to the fact that I was away ©: fora =
number of years during the Eisehhower Administration, .and now
I had gotten down to the spring of 1961 when President Kennedy
called and told about the disaster that had befallen him at the
Bay of Pigs. And he said that I must not have. that happen
again. He said I was startled and shocked at the fallacies
in the intelligence information that we received, and I want
to take whatever steps I can to improve it.

So he appointed the President's Foreign Intelligence
Advisory Board, which you are thoroughly familiar with because
of your service upon it. We met at the time, met with him,
and he told -us of the seriousness which he attached to the ‘
function of the Board. He issued a directive at the time to

the military services and to the CIA and other government

AaVdaIT GUOd “A GTwaAS GHL WOWd AdODOLOHa

-FOP-SECRET

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 5


amt 26

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

ll

12

13

14

WARD & PAUL

15

16

1?

18

19

20

al

R22

23

R24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

25

FOP-SECREF 1593

great contributions to that. We had two very fine men, Dr.
Willian Baker of the Bell Laboratories, and Dr. Ben Lamb
of Polaroid. They worked very closely, and the Board
encouraged them, got all the money from the President that they
needed. We improved that a lot. We also got a great deal of
information in what is known as SIGINT, COMINT, ELINT and
RADINT -- signal intelligence, communications intelligence,
electronics intelligence and radar intelligence. The NSA has
spotters all through the world and they pick up all of the
radio signals that go out, and when the Soviets launch a
test missile we follow it from its inception, we follow its
whole flight, we determine whether it was successful or not.
We know down to the day almost the degree of success

that the Russians have had in MIRVing their missiles. all of

that is very valuable. I remember being in one time
and going into a room and here sat three hundred

all of them with those great puffy earphones on, and all they

—_ KaWdTT Ga0s “W GTWuaS AHL WOWA AdODOLOHA

were doing was monitoring any kind of sign: 1 that came out of
China. And it is very good. You pick up i movements,
you pick up: plane flights, you pick up missiles tests. None
of it is quite as good, of course, as having the Deputy
Premier being a CIA operative, but we are |/pretty well going
«to have to give up that thought. We thought, the Board.did,

that we could penetrate Cuba, and we gave/a lot of time to

that. At no time did I ever hear anybody/ suggest that Castro

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 6


amt 27.

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

R24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

aictna ABO M SS

was going to be assassinated, or that there was any planvto
assassinate Castro. But we were concerned about Cuba.
President Kennedy was concerned about Cuba. We wondered
whether or not there might be something going on between

Cuba and the Soviet Union as later did. And I guess, I think
I can remember six or seven teams who were wonderfully well
trained and sent to Cuba at various times, landed at various
locations, and every one of those teams were rolled up. Not:
one of them endured. And the reason is that Castro set up an
extraordinarily effective counterinteliigence system. That
is, he has a head of Counterintelligence, and in each
province, he has a deputy, and under that man in each town or
each city or hamlet there is another top man and then in each
block there is a man, or in each precinct, and then in each
block, and if the block is a large block, even down to two
or three sections, and their main job is intelligence.

It exists in the towns, it exists out in the country,
and if a stranger puts his face in Cuba today, in twenty-four
hours I think this person is apprehended and he is brought in
for interrogation.

So, we have to find other means and other means were
found. You will remember that Cuban-U.S. confrontation:that
came later, and the presence of the Soviet offensive missiles
in Cuba being discovered by our sateliite type intelligence.

We photographed ships at sea with devices on their deck, very

TOP-SECRET

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 7

“XGVdaIT Gdod “UY GIvaaD AHL WOUT AdODOLOHa



samt 28

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

“TOP-SECRET

PIM ll
carefully covered, and we covered the unloading of them, we
kept flights going all of the time, because cloud covers
sometimes interfere with it, until we had absolutely irrefu-
table evidence that the Soviet Union had offensive missiles
in Cuba. :

Thereafter, it seems to me that the Foreign Intel-
ligence Advisory Board maybe the last two or three years I
was on it, it seemed to me we had done about what we could do
to take care of the large areas “of important operations, and
then I thought to some extent, the last two or three years,
that our efforts. did not produce much. I left the Foreign
Intelligence Board at the beginning of 1968 when I enelovar
to the Pentagon.

MR. BELIN: That was to become Secretary of Defense?

MR. CLIFFORD: Yes. And there in the Pentagon I had
some contact with the intelligence community, not too much.
That is handled mainly by the Deputy Secretary of Defense. He
gets the daily briefings and then sifts them through and
informs the Secretary of those items that are of immediate
moment. I did set a meeting a week with a representative of
the CIA and he came over, we had a set time, Thursday mornings
at 10:00 o'clock, and he came over and we kept that every time
I was in town, and I got an hours briefing, so that I kept
up closely with that. I felt that was reasonably’ valuable.

We were not getting good intelligence from Vietnam.

-FOP-SECRET ‘

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 8

“KaWdaIT Cdor “WY AIwaadS AHL NOWd AdODOLOHa

:



amt 32,

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

uae

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16'

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

_but that's the only time I ever remember it coming up, and on

“TOP-SECRET

Aes

that you never heard of any Er eee at assasination plots

that might be planned by the CIA iff any were planned?
MR. CLIFFORD: No, at no time. We had something

of a joke on the Boatd. Ambassador Robert Murphy, for whom

we all had the greatest respect and a great fondness,

wondered why the CIA could not do in Ho Chi Minh. He did not

think it would be too difficult a task,.and every now and then

he brought it up and said, I can't. understand why that can't

be done, but it was something of a humorous bit after awhile,

no serious occasion did the Board «very suggest action of that
kind, nor were we ever informed that any effort of that kind
was. made, norvwas it even being considered.

When the teams were sent to Cuba over a period of
someitwo years and were rolled up, their function was not to
commit any assasinations. Their functions were to:make an
effort to establish an intelligence base in Cuba that would
be effective and help us to know what was going on in Cuba,
being only 90..miles from our shore.

MR. BELIN: But you indicated earlier that sometimes
in the intelligence community that the people who were: super-
vising know what the people who are being supervised tell
them. Is that a fair characterization of what your earlier

statement was?

MR. CLIFFORD: I think so. I think we knew then that

-FOP-SECRET

NW 66327 Docld:32204959 Page 9

AMWAGIT GuOd. *Y GTWYAS AHL WONT KdODOLOHA
