# docid-32316427

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10347-10047

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2973-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/14/1958

PAGES:

69

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT; TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES la-Id

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

59262 Date: 09:22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32316427 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-72 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

FRANK

DESIMONE, was.,

Frankole Simone;

Frank

Desimond,

Frank

Desemond

Frank Desmond

DATE

4/14/58

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/1 - 4/4/58

REFORT MADE BY

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

3.1

SYNOPSIS:

Neighbors, friends, and business associates report subject's

whereabouts unknown. On 3/3/58 a $525 payment on subject!s

$6300 note at U. S. National Bank, San Diego, California, made

by SAM BOMPENSIERO. Subject obtained $15,000 from GRACENUDDO, SALE

half sister; during 1957.

and Alcohol Tax and Tobacco Unit,

U. S. Treasury Department, also investigating subject.

Subpoena outstanding for

subject to appear before Federal

Grand Jury,

SDNY.

Federal Narcotics Bureau, Los Angeles,

attempting to locate subject to serve subpoena.

Telephone

call from subject's New York hotel room 11/13/57 traced to

telephone of ELVIRANGARGUILO, gIrl friend of JAMES PLUMERI,

alias JIMMY DOYLE, a

New York top hoodlum.

No change in

subject's known bank accounts. Handwriting and hand printing

specimens obtained.

REVIEWED BY BEJFK TASK FORGE

REVIEWED BY ESWJFK TASK FORCE

- P-

ON

1125/58 das

ON 10/28/52 de

IF RELEASE IN FULL

C/ RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIA

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

I TO!NOT DENTE A SPACES BELOW

COPIES MAI

AEWED BY ROWJFK TASK

92- K473+3í

REGa 18.

124/98 daL

SEE NEXT PAGE

RELEASE IN FULL

REULASE SPART

EX. - 123

OSURI

-12.

TOTAL DENIA

Buieau

??)

48 APR 21 1958

1365

1ex,

S COPIES MADE,

-BY

RE ..

GMAY 16 1958

FOR REVIEW AT round acroi

TO NGOA HE REQUEST DATED 44/25/78

(SE MuFILE 02-117290)

PROPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-60637-4

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 2

JFK Law 11(a)

---

## Page 3

IA 92-10%,

COPIES OF REPORT

2 Bureau (Encl. 1)

2 Chicago

2

Miami

2 New York (Encl. 1)

2

Phoenix

Salt Lake City

2

an Diego (Encl. 1

2

an Francisco (Encl. 1

1 Albany Info..

1 Boston (Info.

1

Buffalo (Info.)

1 Cleveland (Info.)

1

Dallas (Info.)

1

Detroit (Info.) (Encl. 1),

Denver (Inio.)

Newark (Info.)

Philadelphia (Info.)

Pittsburgh (Info.)

Springfield (Info.)

Los Angeles (92-107

(194-430)

-

la

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-107

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

EMPLOYMENT

Attorney at law practice

Eject-O-Lette Manufacturing Company

Neighborhood Amusement Club

Cucamonga Winery

CLOSE RELATIVES

ROSALIA DESIMONE, mother

GRACE UDDO, half sister :

JOSEPH DESIMONE, brother

NEIGHBORHOOD

BANK ACCOUNTS

Bank of America, Downey, California

U.S.

National Bank, San Diego, Calif.

Great Western Savings and Loan

Association, Los Angeles, Callf.

•

ASSOCIATES

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

JOHN ROSELLI

BELDON KATLEMAN::

NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

AMEDEO L. LAURITANO

Dr. VITO LaROCCA

Dr. MARIO E. TAGLIAMBE

JAMES PLUMERI, aliaS JIMMY DOXLE

•

- In =

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 4

2

4

4

5

5

7

9

11

11

13

16

16

17

18

18

18

---

## Page 5

IA 92-107

TAMPA, FLORIDA

Dr. A. P. PERZIA

ANTHONY and FRANK DIECIDUE

SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

•C. H. AUGUSTINE

WILLIAM RICHARD LIPIN

LEWIS LIPTON

. ..

FRANK MARINO •

Mrs. PATRICK GAVIN

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

JOHN PERUMEAN

BEN J. TORTORICI

JACK T. CANTELLA

CHARLES D. BENEDETTO

GAGLIO BROTHERS

WINTHROP L. BROWN

ANTHONY BENFATTI

•

• .

19

20

...

•

21

24

28

30

30

CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

ORGANIZED CRIME - APALACHIN MEETING

ORGANIZED CRIME - MAFIA

HANGOUTS AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA •

MIAMI, FLORIDA •

TIJUANA, MEXICO

•

•

41

43

46

...

. ..

49

NWV 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 5

---

## Page 6

LA 92-107

MISCELLANEOUS

NEVADA TAX COMMISSION

INCOME TAX •

AUTOMOBILE

.

HANDWRITING AND HAND PRINTING SPECIMENS

- 1d -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 6

50

50

50

51

---

## Page 7

IA 92-107

DETAIJS:

PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

EMPLOYMENT

ATTORNEY AT LAW PRACTICE

On March 27, 1958, CECIL HOWE, Building Manager for

the California Bank Building, 9441 Wilshire Boulevard, Los

Angeles, advised SA CHARLES E. STINE (A) that FRANK DESIMONE

1953, until sometime

named JOHN WALSH shared an office with him. WALSH IS

presently in Room 412. of this building, according to

HOWE.

HOWE advised

that if the exact dates of his tenancy

ever

become an issue, he would recommend contact with the

Beverly Sign Company which placed the subject's name on the

door

and also removed it when he vacated this office.

HOWE

said he had little contact with the subject and believed he

later had desk space in the law firm of Cantillon and

Cantillon, which 1s also in the same building.

On March 27, 1958, I-I advised that DESIMONE

is associated with the Cantillon law firm only insofar as

the Los Angeles County Supreme Court case of GEORGIANA VS. FISHER

is concerned.

T-1 said that this is a civil suit and has not

been pressed

because DESIMONE has not been in touch with the

and his whereabouts are not known to any persons

connected with this firm.

I-l advised that the subject is

known to the CANTILLONS, who are the attorneys for the

Tropicana Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. T-I said that JOHN

ROSELLI is also a client of this firm and believes he was

introduced to the firm by DESIMONE.

I-I said that among

the CANTILLON clients is ANTHONY MOSCIOTRA, 4115 Vally Vista

Courts, Sherman Oaks, California. He is the manager of the

Silver

Fox, a tavern

located in San Fernando Valley and

actually owned by a family named PUCCI.

T-1 said that

RICHARD CANTILLON and MOSCIOTRA had a conversation in which

the fact that the subject's whereabouts were unknown was a point

of discussion.

I-I said it appeared apparent that neither knew

where the subject might be, but it was also apparent that

they were concerned about him.

T-1 has also advised that within a few days following

the notoriety given the subject in the local press, RICHARD

- i-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427. Page 7

---

## Page 8

LA 92-10%

CANTILLON learned that a 'Life" Magazine reporter had telephonically

contacted the CANTILLON office and had engaged one of the

clerical employees in conversation concerning the subject.

According to I-1, it was apparent that CANTILLON was concerned

that there would be publicity in which the subject's

connection with the

firm would become known.

T-I said that

the subject was never a member of the firm and recently

all calls for the subject have been referred to G. VERNON

BRUMBAUGH, 139 North Broadway, Los Angeles..

T1 said that

DESIMONE was. never a member of the CANTILLON laW Iirm.

On March 31, 1958, G. VERNON BRUMBAUGH advised

SA STINE that he still had no idea of the subject's whereabouts.

EJECT-O-LETTE MANUFACTURING COMPANY

On March 7, 1958, W. D. HIGGINSON, United States

Corporation Company, 210 West

Seventh Street, Los Angeles,

advised that at the request of the subject he had filed the

necessary legal documents with the California Department of

Corporations for this firm.

He said that this business, to

his recollection, was a machine shop located somewhere in the

vicinity of Central Los Angeles. He said all names of persons

listed as original stockholders

were employees of the United

States Corporation Company.

(It will be recalled that the United States Corporation

Company specializes in forming corporations under the laws of

the State of California and other states for a fee.

They

act on instructions of attorneys, and according to HIEGINSON,

perform the function of a specialized law clerk insofar as

the filing of proper documents with the states are concerned.)

HIGGINSON said that he has a vague recollection

of the fact that this firm may not actually have begun

operations

and does not believe it is presently active.

He

said he cannot recall the exact circumstances for the formation

of this particular company, but believes the only work he

did in connection therewith was the result of a short

telephone call from the subject.

He said he does not know

who may have been associated with the subject in this

venture.

- 3-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 8

---

## Page 9

LA 92-107

NFJ.GHBORHOOD AMUSEMENT CLUB

HIGGINSON stated that on November 27, 1939, the

subject requested him to file Articles of Incorporation with

the State of California for this non-profit corporation.

He furnished a carbon copy of the

Articles of Incorporation

for inspection.

This copy did not indicate who the officers

or stockholders were, nor was the address shown.

The only

names shown were LOUIS BONO; J. DiGREGORIO, and

DOMINIC

SALO. There was no further identification of these persons

and they were referred to as "incorporators"

• Among the

purposes for the club there was set forth that for the

benefit of members pool, billiard, and snooker tables would

be provided.

HIGGINSON stated that he did not know where

this club was located.

CUCAMONGA WINERY

On March 31, 1958, HIGGINSON advised that on

searching through old

records he had found misfiled a

record to the effect that at the request of the subject, he

had caused to be filed with the State of California Articles

of Incorporation for this firm. He said the date May 15,

1939, appeared in his records in connection with this firm.

He advised that there were no other references in his records

to this company and did not know whether or not the subject

was an officer, stockholder,

or merely attorney for the firm.

He said he did not know whether this was still in business.

Ц

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 9

---

## Page 10

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

Close Relatives

ROSALIA DESIMONE - Mother

On March 14, 1950, CHESTER PERKINS, Investigator,

Immigration and Naturalization Service, Los Angeles, advised

SAA STINE that the files of that agency include alien regis-

tration forms completed by ROSALIE CORDA DESIMONE bearing

number A-494102

January 10, 1951; January 21, 1957;

and January 12, 1958. She also registered as an alien

on December 12, 1940. On this early registration form she

listed her place of birth as Lucca Sicila, a provinse o1

Gergentl, Italy.

The form indicated that

she entered the

United States under her maiden name at New York City on July

30, 1907.

Mr. PERKINS pointed out that the Immigration and

Naturalization Service investigation at Pueblo, Colorado,

developed that the records of the Mt. Carmel Catholic Church

at Pueblo included a record of a marriage on December 23,

1906, 0f ROSARIO DESIMONE and ROSALIA CORDO.

PERKINS pointed out that in the 1951, 1957, and

1950 alien registration forms completed by Mrs. DESIMONE

she consistently represented that she entered the United

states in July, 190%, at

New York City.

The name of the

steamship was listed as "unknown."

She listed her relatives

in Italy as MAICH CORDA; however,

the degree of relationship

was not shown.

She listed all of her children, which included

LEON who resided at 3831 Hepburn; FRANK; JOSEPH, and

T-2 on March 7, 1958, advised that the account of

ROSALIA DESIMONE at the Security-First National Bank, Downey,

California, was increased by $226.35 in a deposit made

March 4, 1958.

This amount represented a check drawn on the

california, El Cajon Branch.

-5 -

REVIEWED BY

VIK TACK FORCE

ON

7/M/98 lat

E RELEASE IN FULL

MELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

T-3 advised that as of February 28, 1958, the balance

in ROSALIA DESIMONE's account at the Bank of America, Downey,

California, was $8,286.41.

On March 25, 1958, T-3 advised

that there

were no large checks charged against this account

during the month of March. No checks were issued to any

member of her family.

GRACE UDDO - Half Sister

Isewhere in this report is information concerning

a $0,000. check issued by GRACE UDDO which was deposited in

subject's account.

On April 4. 1950. JAMES DONLEY, Internal Revenue

Agent, advised that

JFK Law 11(a)

- 6-

NWV 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

JFK Law 11(a)

JOSEPH DESIMONE - Brother

T-4 on March 14, 1958, made available a list of

phone calls from LO 7-2137 and TO 2-5988.

JOSEPH P. DESIMONE,

the subject's brother, is the subscriber to these phones at

8420 California Avenue, South Gate, California, and 8135

Valdena Lane, Downey,

California,

respectively.

These calls

showed that on December 20, 1957, a call was made to FRANK

DESIMONE at Tampa, Florida, to phone number 4-2713 (This has

previously been traced to the home of FRANK DIECIDUE. On

December 27, 1957, a call

the name "JOSEPH PAZZARIA" appeare on the toad tacket ta

is noted that a Dr. A. PERZIA performed the operation on the

subject. in November, 1957, at Tampa, Florida.

Other calls from JOSEPH DESIMONE'S business phone

in South Gate, California, were as follows:

City Called

Number Ca-led

Fullerton,

LA 5-5871

Dates of Calls

12/28/57

California

Westminster:

Ca"ifornia

TV 3-7263

2/7/58

-7.

11a

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 12

---

## Page 13

IA 92-107

CES : LFL

City Called

Number Called

Dates of Calls

FA 8-4644

1/17/58

GE 9-0227

1/20/58

EX 8-7585

1/24/58

AT 4-5147

1/28/58

UN 4-8450

1/29/58

TH 2-6939

1/30/58

TO 7-6047

1/31/58

UN 8-1838

2/5/58

OR 7-2183

2/6/58

PO 2-2977

2/13/58

OR 2-3418

2/14/58

OR 7-7781

2/14/58

AT 0-0259

2/2/58

The calls above cover the period December 7, 1957,

through February 17, 1958.

cards to his home phone in Downey, California,

through February 17, 1958; showed toll calls only to Garder

Grove, California, phone ner LE 9-2287.

These calls were

made on January 20, 1950; cruary o, 1950; and February 17,

1958, respestively.

As set forch elsewhere in this report, on March 6,

1958, when

mentioned set De. JocaPH

sinone had informed. him the subject's

wrerestouts was inknown, at for that reason it was necessary

to request him, BRUMBAJGH, to perform legal duties that would

ordin rily have

been performed by the subject.

-8 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 13

---

## Page 14

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

NEIGHBORHOOD

On April 2, 1958, Mrs. NORMAN HAURET, 7839 Adoree

Street, advised that she had been in frequent

touch with

ROSALIE DESIMONE on a neighborly basis, but the subject of

FRANK's whereabouts and condition has never arisen.

said it is evident from the fact that ROSALIE continues to

park her car in the HAURET garage that the subject's car is

still on the DESIMONE premises.

She said that in the event

the subject's whereabouts become known to her she will

immediately inform this office.

She advised that she has the

impression from her contacts with ROSALIE that the family

continues to be concerned about the subject's failure to

contact them.

on April 4, 1958, Mrs. RICHARD POWELL, 7833 Comolette,

Downey, California, advised that she has observed that the

DESIMONE family wash does not include male attire, and for

this reason she believes the subject is not at home.

said when the subject is home the DESIMONE wash line, which

is visible from the POWELL residence, includes many white

shirts and other items which she assumes only the subject

would wear inasmuch as he is the only male known to be living

at those premises.

She said she has not been in recent

contact with the

subject's family but would attempt to

them and, if possible, determine the subject's whereabouts and

immediately inform this office.

On April 4, 1958, it was ascertained that the

residence at 7032 Adoree Street, Downey, California, Is

occupied by tHEodoRe wOrmLey who is employed by the

011 Company at 11103 south Central Avenue, Compton, California.

This information was obtained on March 28, 1950, by IC JOHN

E. SANTOS from the records of the Southern California Gas

Company.

T-5 on April 4, 1958, advised SAA STINE that the

subject's mother and sister, ROSALIE, have not visited their

old friends

and appear to be

embarrassed over the fact that

the subject has been the subject of several newspaper stories

=9.

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 14

---

## Page 15

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

in the local press. T-5 mentioned that the Federal Narcotics

Bureau is evidently looking for the subject in order to serve

a suppoena.

I-5 said it has not been possible to engage the

subject's mother in an extended conversation about him.

stated that Mrs. DESIMONE does

not respond to questions concerning

her son, except to state generally that she would rest easier

if she knew where and how he is.

-

10

-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 15

---

## Page 16

LA 92-107

BANK ACCOUNTS

All Information attributable to "I" symbol informants

in this section of the report will be made available only upon

the issuance of a

subpoena.

Bank of America

Downey Branch

Downey, California

1-3 s on March es.

1958, advised that the only

entries against the subject's

"clients account" and his

regular checking account were bank charges of less than

$1 on each account,

therefore, the balances have not been

materially changed.

U. S. National Bank

Main Office

San Diego, California

On March 14, 1958, the San Diego Office reported

that on March 3, 1958, a payment was made on the subject's

loan account at

this bank by a person who was identifiea by

the bank officer receiving the payment as SAM BOMPENSIERO.

The payment was in cash.

In connection with this loan, the San Diego Office

on the same date advised that on February 28, 1958, Mr.

ROBERT P. DRYDEN, Loan Officer, U. S. National Bank, El Cajon

Boulevard Branch, San Diego, California, informed SA's

FRANK V. SULLIVAN and WILLIAM W. LeBAR

that FRANK DESIMONE

had obtained a $2000 loan from that bank on September 6, 1955,

co-signed by WILLIAM R, LIPIN. Payments were made as agreed

and the loan paid off

in its entirety.

On November 20, 1956, a similar loan requested by

LIPIN was made to DESIMONE in the amount of $2000, which also

was paid off.

On May 8, 1357, 2. loan of $6300 was made again to

DESIMONE, requested by IlliN, a very close personal friend of

DESIMONE,

the funds to assist DESIMONE to buy a new business

(type not stated).

This new business allegedly would not

interfere with DESIMONE's law practice.

The note was

guaranteed by LIPIN. Monthly payments were to be made in

the

amount of $525.

- 11 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 16

---

## Page 17

LA 92-107

Payments were made regularly on this loan until

about Decemker, 1957, payments having been made in cash.

Mr.

DRYDEN recalled that some individual other than DESIMONE,

Italian appearing, frequently made these payments.

When

DESIMONE fell behind in his payment schedule, the

bank wrote

letters to him at his given address, 7838 Adoree, Downey,

California.

Such letters were dated December 18, 1957;

January 23, 1950; and February 11, 1958.

The last letter

was sent by registered mail with the request that it be

delivered to the addressee only and a return receipt card was

requested to show the address to which it was delivered.

To date no reply has been received, but Mr. LIPIN had made

one of the payments.

The bank contacted Mr. LIPIN on

• February 18, 1958, at which time Mr. LIPIN stated he believed

DESIMONE, who supposedly had been in a hospital, was back

in the Los Angeles area.

Another payment was due as of

March 3, 1958.

Mr. DRYDEN stated that he would advise this

of any irformation received as to DESIMONE or his

payments.

ReLatIve to WILLIAM R. LIPIN, Mr. DRYDEN confidentially

informed that he is a brother of LEWIS LIPTON and BERNARD

LIPINSKY, both San Diego businessmen. WILLIAM R. LIPIN and

BERNARD LIP- NSKY

are partners in a business known as B & B

Enterprises, which operates coin machines such as stamp,

cigarette, and candy machines, at military bases in the

Their deposits ai that bank total $161,305.33.

WILLIAM R.

LIPIN is one of the largest stockholders in the U. S. National

Bank outside of the "actual owners"

• He is associated also

with the North Park Mortgage Company, 2896 Wightman, San

Diego, Calliornia, telephone CY 8-9338.

subseqient to recriving the foregoing information,

Mr. DRYDEN, on March 3; 1930, telephonically contacted the

San Diego Office and stated as set forth above that a payment

had been made on DESIMONE:. loan. At this point the identity

of the person making the payment was unknown.

DRYDEN stated

that he asid this person were the subject was, and received

the reply that he was in a hospital somewhere in Florida.

DRYDEN advised that he asked this uncown person for his name

and there was no answer.

DRYDEN advised that he followed

this person to the bank parking lot under the pretext of going

to lunch and again engaged the unknown person in conversation.

DRYDEN stated that this person advised that the subject had

12 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 17

---

## Page 18

IA 92-107.

been his lawyer and because of all the help given him by

the subject, the loan payment was being made for him.

DRYDEN said

he was unable to state whether or not the payment

was being made by the unknown person out of his own pocket.

DRYDEN noted that this person was driving a 1956

Oldsmobile bearing California license LPF 919.

The San

Diego Office ascertained that this automobile was registered

to FRANK Or SUSANNE MARINO, 4007 Hope Street, San Diego.

Ine san Diego office files reflect FRANK MARINO, Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Number 1651123, is a bartender

for the Spot Cafe operated by SAM BOMPENSIERO and the latter

frequently uses MARINO's automobile.

Photographs. of several individuals of Italian

descent were shown to DRYDEN and

to tellers RICHARD MOORS

and

RICHARD CARSON, who had received payments on the subject's

loan previously.

DRYDEN and MOORS identified the photograph

of SALVATORE (SAM) BOMPENSIERO as the person making the

payment on March 3, 1958.

CARSON recognized only the

photograph of DESIMONE, who had made payments previously on

other loans.

Great Western Savings and Loan Association

Crenshaw Branch

Leimert Park

Los Angeles, California

JAMES E. DONLEY

service, on March 28, 1958, advised

Intelligence Unit. Internal Revenue

JFK Law 11(a)

- 13 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 18

---

## Page 19

LA 92-107

JFK Law 11(a)

INSURANCE

On March 5, 1958; AMY I. HAUERT, Cashier's Department,

Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company, 11ll Wilshire Boulevard,

Los Angeles, California, advised SA CHARLES E. STINE (A) that

DESIMONE iS

the holder of Prlicy Number 1955915 issued

November 12, 1935.

is a $1,000 ordinary life policy

requiring payments of $18.43 annually.

She stated that

payments are current on this policy and from notations made

on duplicate copies of receipts maintained, it was possible

to determine that the premiums were paid by checks drawn or

the banks listed below in the

years shown:

- 14 -

.19

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 19

---

## Page 20

LA 92-107

YEAR

1950

BANK ON WHICH DRAWN

Bank of America

Fourth and Spring Branch

Los Angeles, California

1951

California Bank

Beverly Hills Branch

Beverly Hills, California

1952

California Bank

Beverly Hills Branch

Beverly Hills, California

1954

Bank of America

Downey Branch

Downey, California

Mrs. HAUERT was not able to locate the 1953 record

of payment and stated that since 1955 it has not been office

policy to note the bank on which the check covering the

premium was drawn.

MrS. HAUERT advised that on January 22, 1946, the

subject borrowed $265 on his policy. She said this loan has

not been paid.

On March 5, 1950, F. 0. SCHREINER, Jr., Golden Life

Agency,

609 South Grand Avenue, advised SA CHARLES E. STINE (A)

that this company has issued a

life insurance policy, number

642288, for $1,000 on the llfe of the subject, FRANK DESIMONE.

Inis policy is of the ordinary life type and was issued

November 7, 1934. Premiums of $20.14 are due annually.

He

stated the payments are current, but their records do not

indicate the bank on which the checks were drawn.

- 15 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 20

---

## Page 21

LA 92-107

ASSOCIATES

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

JOHN ROSELLI

JOHN ROSELLI, top hoodlum of the Los Angeles Office

was contacted by SA BYRON C. WHEELER on February 20, 1950, at

the tropicana Hotel, at which time he advised he is well

acquainted with subject and that many years ago he had used

subject as his attorney.

He stated subject had not been in

Las Vegas for approximately four or five months and that he

did not know the present location of subject; however, the

last information he received regarding DESIMONE was that the

latter had undergone an eye operation approximately two or

three months ago in Florida.

ROSELLI advised subject resides

with his mother and sister in Los Angeles and his whereabouts

should be known to thein.

He stated he would have subject

contact SA WHEELER as soon as he was able to locate him or

as soon as he saw him in Las Vegas.

BELDON KATLEMAN

On February 25, 1958, the Salt Lake City Office

advised that the following information regarding BELDON

KATLEMAN was located in the files of the Clark County Sheriff's

office, Las Vegas, Nevada, under Number 40-370:

ANN MOORE, CiVil Department, Clark County Sheriff's

Office, Las Vegas,

on January 28, 1950,

their records reflect BELDON RICHARD KATLEMAN made application

for a gambling license on July 18, 1950, Clark County Sheriff's

office Number 40-370. The file contained the following

description of KATLEMAN:

Race

Sex

Nationality

Born

Height

Weight

Hair

Eyes

Complexion

Former Employment

White

Male

American

July 15, 1914, Sioux City,

Iowa

6'

170 pounds

Dark brown

Dark brown

Medium

Katleman Brothers Western Auto

Parks, Los Angeles, California

- 16 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 21

---

## Page 22

LA 92-10%

As of February 11, 1950, no record coula be locatec

In the Identification Division of

the FBI for KATLEMAN with

the exception of his being fingerprinted by the Army on

May 6, 1942.

A review of the Salt Lake City files failed to

reflect any additional information concerning KATLEMAN.

NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

AMEDEO L. LAURITANO

On March 18, 1958, the New York Office advised

that AMEDEO L. LAURITANO was interviewed on January 30, 1958,

by SA'S RALPH

De SENA and JAMES M. BEARDSLEY at his office,

205 West 34th Street. He advised that he has known FRANK

DESIMONE for several years, but has not seen him in several

months and has no information concerning his whereabouts.

He stated that on about January 17, 1958, he was telephonically

contacted by Attorney G. V. BRUMBAUGH, Los Angeles, California,

who requested that he, LAURITANO, represent SIMONE

SCOZZARI

before the Special Federal Grand Jury, Southern District of

New York.

He stated that SCOZZARI had never appeared before

this Grand Jury because he was in a hospital at Los Angeles

for a tumor operation.

LAURITANO advised that he did not previously know

either BRUMBAUGH Or SCOZZARI and, therefore, assumes

that

FRANK DESIMONE recommended him to BRUMBAUGH

as a New York

attorney.

He'stated that he would assume that BRUMBAUGH

might know the present whereabouts of DESIMONE inasmuch as

BRUMBAUGH mentioned to him on the telephone that DESIMONE

recently had an eye operation. He stated that he knew of

no other acquaintance DESIMONE might have in New York City

and could offer no suggestions as to his possible whereabouts.

New York City Office files reflect that the following

information was contained in a memorandum dated April 5, 1952,

from Mr. GEORGE WHITE to former Special Assistant to the Attorney

General NEWBOLD MORRIS:

THOMAS LUCHESE, with alias Three Finger Brown, was

reported very close to several public officials, including

AMELIO LAURITANO, a New York City Magistrate and former

- 17 -

NWV 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 22

---

## Page 23

LA 92-107

Assistant United States Attorney.

LAURITANO'S

son was the

goason of LUCHESE and LAURITANO was discharged as Assistant

United States Attorney by United States Attorney IRVING SAYPOL

after admitting a relationship with LUCHESE.

Dr. VITO LaROCCA

The New York Office, by letter dated March 18,

1958, advised that on March 4,

1950, Dr. VITO LaROCCA,

30 Park

Avenue, New York City,

was reinterviewed by SA BEARDSLEY

and advised that he had received no information concerning

FRANK DESIMONE since DESIMONE was examined by him on

November 16, 1957. He stated that DESIMONE did not mention

to him having been arrested by the police at Apalachin,

New York, on November 14, 1957, and did not mention anything

about his activities.

Dr. MARIO F. TAGLIAGAMBE

The New York Office, on March 18, 1958, advised

that on March 11, 1958, Dr. MARIO F. TAGLIAGAMBE, 110 President

Street, Brooklyn, New York was reinterviewed by SA BEARDSLEY

and advised that he had received no information concerning

FRANK DESIMONE since he referred DESIMONE tO Dr. LaROCCA

in November, 1957. He stated that he recalled that he was

consulted by DESIMONE prior to the meeting at Apalachin,

New York, inasmuch as he noted DESIMONE's name in the

newspaper articles about that meeting just a few days after

he had seen DESIMONE.

He stated that DESIMONE did not indicate

to him that he was planning to attend any meeting and did

activities. He stated that DESIMONE apparently came to him

because he had served in the Army on the West Coast during

Both Dr. LaROCCA and Dr. TAGLIAGAMBE stated

that they would advise the New York Office if any information

concerning FRANK DESIMONE's whereabouts came to their attention.

JAMES PLUMERI, with alias,

JIMMY DOYLE

Inclusion of PLUMERI as a possible associate of the

subject is based on a telephone call made from a suite

occupied by the subject and SIMONE SCOZZARI at the Hotel New Yorker

- 18 =

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 23

---

## Page 24

LA 92-107

on November 13, 1957. As reported earlier,

a call was made

on November 13, 1957, from this suite to OR 5-6492. The

subscriber of this telephone is ELVIRA GARGUILO, and she

resides at Apartment 3B, 156 West 20th Street, New York City.

The New York Office supplied the foregoing

information in regard to PLUMERI and GARGUILO on March 18,

1958, and also reported at the same time that according to

the records of 1-6

another Government agency investigating

hoodlum activities, JAMES PLUMERI, a top hoodlum of the New

York Office, had a girl friend, DIANA ROSE, who operated the

Diana Rose Sportswear Company, 100th Street and Thira Avenue,

New York city. According to those records, RosE was also

known as VERA, VICK, VICKIE DALE,

YOLANDE

GARGUILO, and

ROSE CAUTERO.

Those records reflected that her business

was financed by PLUMERI and that he periodically lived with

her in a penthouse located somewhere on Park Avenue in New

York City.

Those records reflected that PLUMERI was using

her telephone number for certain contacts with his criminal

associates.

New York City Office files reflect that on

February 5, 1948, YOLANDA GARGUILO was arrested by Bureau

agents at New York City in a Theft From Interstate Shipment

case and the complaint against her was dismissed on

November 10, 1948. YOLANDA GARGUILO has FBI Number 5051782.

On February. 27,

,1958, T-7 advised SA RICHARD A.

ANDERSON that one

"VICKIE" GARGUILO resides in Apartment 3B

at 165 West 20th Street, with one JIMMY DOYLE.

stated that they have lived there for approximately three

years; however, he believes they are not marriea.

TAMPA, FLORIDA

Dr. A. P. PERZIA

On March 3, 1958, the Miami Office advised that

DI. PERZIA, Who had

operated on the subject in November, 1957,

was again reinterviewed on February 14, 1958.

He said

that he had not seen nor heard from the

subject since the

subject telephoned him from Miami in early January, 1950.

He also said the subject had never paid anything on the $300

bill for the operation.

He has promised to advise SA L. E.

THOMPSON at Tampa, Florida, in the event the subject's whereabouts

become known or if the subject's account is paid.

- 19-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 24

---

## Page 25

LA 92-10%

ANTHONY DIECIDUE

FRANK DIECIDUE

On February 14, 1958, these brothers advised

SA THOMPSON that they had not seen nor heard from the subject

since he left tampa reportedly to go to Miami in early

January, 1958.

SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

SALVATORE (SAM) BOMPENSIERO

According to information provided by Attorney C. H.

AUGUSTINE,

a former law associate of the

subject, SAM

BOMPENSIERO is a close friend of the subject.

I- 8,

on March 28, 1958, advised that long distance

telephone calls made to BOMPENSIERO's telephone included a

call dated February 10, 1958, to a JOSEPH VENOSA, Room 308,

Mckinley Hospital, Trenton, New Jersey.

On March 29, 1958, the Newark Office advised that

VENOSA was not identical with the subject. He was identified

as an employee of the Quick Photo Service, Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania, and was in the hospital as a patient of Dr.

WILLIAM WITTENBORN, who definitely identifled his patient

as not being identical with the subject.

Other telephone calls made from the BOMPENSIERO

telephones are as follows:

DATE OF CALL

NUMBER CALLED

From Belmont 4-2545 - (residence, 2135 Columbia)

TE 2-1161

PERSON CALLED IF KNOWN

12/9/57

GORDON F. BLAHNIK

San Pedro, California

From Belmont 9-1007 (The Spot, a night club, 1046 Thiro

street, san Diego, California)

1/20/58

GL 3-7125

2/20/58

ROBERT PRAETZEL

San Rafael, California

(call placed by SAM

BOMPENSIERO)

- 20

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 25

---

## Page 26

LA 92-107

DATE OF CALL

2/10/58

2/28/58

2/21/5'

18/5€

2/19/58

1/2/58

NUMBER CALLED

OR 5-6024

NO 4-5483.

CY 2-4956

TR 2087

PERSON CALLED IF KNOW

ANGELO LOCOICO

Inglewood, California

Los Angeles, California

SAL MORENO

San Jose, California

(from "SAM BOTENSARI" )

FRANK MAHANY

Los Angeles,

California

(call by SAM BOMPENSIERO)

ROBERT PRAETZEL

San Rafael, California

Pomona, California

Los Angeles, California

San Jose, California

San Jose, California

1/6/58

GL 3-7125

1/23/58

2/11/58

2/2/58

2/2/58

LY 9-9918

RI 9-6373

LA 3-1275

LA 3-1527

CLARENCE HENRY AUGUSTINE

The San Diego Office, on March 14, 1958, advised

that on March 5, 1958, Mr. CLARENCE HENRY AUGUSTINE, Attorney,

2055 Third, San

Diego, was interviewed by SA's I. HYRUM

CALLISTER ana WILLIAM W. LeBAR.-

AUGUSTINE stated that he

has not seen nor heard from desImone Ior about a year, when

he saw him

in a Pacific Beach Bar.

he has known subject since about 1934 when the two had offices

in the same suite in Los Angeles, California. In the early

1950's when the liquor scandals in San Diego came to light,

DESIMONE contacted him and asked him to assist in representing

the BOMPENSIERO brothers, FRANK BOMPENSIERO and SALVATORE

(SAM) BOMPENSIERO.

SAM BOMPENSIERO became AUGUSTINE's client

and remains so today.

As to subject's associates, AUGUSTINE

stated that he personally has gone to the horse races at

Caliente track in the past, as have the BOMPENSIERO brothers.

- 21 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427. Page 26

---

## Page 27

LA 92-107

He stated that he himself has not been to that track in the

past four or five months, however. AUGUSTINE informed that

ne knows of no nobbies or special interests of subject aside

from horse races and "women"

He stated that he could furnish

no additional pertinent information and when asked, stated

that he probably would consult with DESIMONE before furnishing/

any information to this Bureau as to his whereabouts should

it come to his attention.

On March 24, 1950, the San Diego Office advised

that long distance telephone calls made from AUGUSTINE'S

telephone since August, 1957, included the following:

CITY

NUMBER CALLED

DATE OF CALL

Della, Iowa

San Francisco,

California

MA 8-2451

HI 5-4711

9/25/57

2/17/58

Las Vegas, Nevada

DU 0-9151

"La BARBA"

10/21/57

DU 2-9023

"La BARBA"

DU 4-5801

Mrs. La BARBARA

DU 4-7103

JOE LA BARBER

10/25/57

9/11/57

10/14/57

NUMBER CALLED

TR 2087

sy 8-6326

MU 8308

MA 6-5521

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

DATE (1957-1958)

8/23;10/30;11/26

8/26

8/26;9/6,17

8/26;9/17

(Listed to DONALD H.

Spring,

Los Angeles,

PERSON OR AREA CALLED

"JEFFERIS"

HARRY M. IRWIN

Di. ALBRACH

ALBRECHT, Attorney, 510 south

- 22 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 27

---

## Page 28

LA 92-107

NUMBER CALLED

GI, 4-2162

EX 5-3108

DATE (1957-1958)

8/27

PERSON OR AREA CALLED

LORA AUGUSTINE

9/6

AN 1-8114

9/6

HA 0-064R

CL 6-3496

9/6

9/9

GRIGGERS

DU 5-1531

WH 2-9998

9/17

10/2

VA 5591

10/3

VA 6151

10/4,21:11/23

(Lancaster, California)

WAITER C. DURST

BILE SIGMON

EX 5-3108

10/10

MA 6-9291

10/29,31

LOUIS SAMUELS

RI. 9-4711 Ext 656

11/29

"DRAPER"

(This is a United States Government telephone and the

extention number is for Small

Business Administration)

OR 8-7617

MA 6-0911

OR 4-8717

GL 4-2162

12/4

10/28/57;2/13,14/58 Mrs. OHARN

Several calls

Several calls

EL 8-4521

EX 7-0158

Several calls

12/31

Santa Monica,

California

MA 9-2521

LA 5-6950

1/8/58

1/21/58

- 23 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 28

---

## Page 29

LA 92-107

NUMBER CALLED

ED 8-7842

EL 9-2886

PA 4-3383

VE 9-6541

DU 5-7211

DATE (1957-1958)

1/30,31/58

PERSON OR AREA CALLED

Montebello, California

Culver City, California

WILLIAM RICHARD LIPIN

On March 21, 1958, the San Diego Office advised that

the city directories for the year 1942 disclose that W. R. LIPIN

resided at 3454 Olive Avenue at that time.

This was the

address

shown by the subject in his application for employment at the

Solar Aircraft Company.

ROBERT DRYDEN on February 28, 1958, advised SA'S FRANK V.

SULLIVAN and WILLIAM W. LeBAR that LIPIN is one of the

largest stockholders in the U. S. National Bank and a partner

with his brother, 'BERNARD LIPINSKY in the B & B Enterprises,

candy machines on military bases in the San Diego area.

Their

aposits at the bank total in excess. of $160, 000. LIPIN 1s

also associated with the Northpark Mortgage Company, 2096

Wightman, San Diego, California.

The San Diego Office, on March 14, 1958, advised

that on February 28, 1958, WILLIAM RICHARD LIPIN, 49-1 Yerba

Santa Drive, San Diego 15, California,

telephone JU 3-2200,

was interviewed at his residence by SA's FRANK V.. SULLIVAN

and

WILLIAM W. LeBAR. This residence is in a quite exclusive

neighborhood and gives the appearance of being a very expensive

home, probably valued at $100,000 or more, with an elaborate

sprinkling system and, according to information received

from T-8,

there is a very elaborate telephone system installed

in this residence - one which greatly impressed

some of the

telephone installers.

- 24 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 29

---

## Page 30

LA 92-107

Mr. LIPIN related that he is "very, very close" to

FRANK DESIMONE, having known him

since about 1927 when the two

were attending Southern California University at Los Angeles,

California. During that time the two helped support themselves

by selling oranges by the crate.

He knows the DESIMONE family

well and refers to them by their first names.

He

stated that

he always calls Dr. LEON DESIMONE aS

"Cousin LEON" and refers

to ROSALIE DESIMONE, subject's unmarried sister, as "Baby"

LIPIN related that one incident that endeared him

to the DESIMONE family was

the securing of a loan of some $100

by subject from one of his uncles who was a barber in Downey,

california, in the early 1930's for LIPIN. LIPIN had needed

money to help his brother, LEWIS LIPTON, the latter having been

practically ostracized by

to a

"non-Jewish" girl. LIPIN had gone to a wealthy uncle of

his in the Los Angeles area to secure this loan and when he

learned that it was to go to LIPTON, he refused

to make the

loan. When DESIMONE heard about it, he secured the loan

voluntarily from an uncle of his who was in the most modest

• financial circumstances.

LIPIN cited this to show the type of

association he has had with subject.

ver the period of intervening years he has hao

frequent contact with subject; because of divergent interests,

however, which resulted partly from the fact that LIPIN became a

married

man with a family and DESIMONE has always remained

single, he has not been out socially with subject since about

1941 01 1942.

During the early World War It years, LIPIN accompanied

subject on a trip to washington in an attempt

by subject to

secure a commission in the Army.

This failed because of subject's

poor eyesight.

It was then that LIPIN's brother, LEW LIPTON,

who was on the Selective Service Board, suggested that subject

enlist.

This he did and served some time in the Army. Since

subject's discharge, according to LIPIN, he has been a changed

man and seems to have lost his "spirit"

He has been very

uncommunicative as to his personal affairs, having always been

a rather unusual individual.

Of late years he has remarked that

his law practice has not been too good and he has wondered why

he remains in the practice.

- 25 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 30

---

## Page 31

LA 92-107

LIPIN volunteered that he has been guarantor on several

loans in

the past few years which have all been paid off except

On the last

the last In an amount of some $3, 000 to #last few months and

loan subject has not made payments in the

the bank, El Cajon Boulevard Branch

U. S. National Bank, has

contacted LIPIN about the loan and LIPIN has made at least one

of the

payments.

He informed that DESIMONE has never given a

reason

why he wanted

the money and LIPIN, knowing subject's

personality, has never inquired. He has

never hesitated to make

the loans

because of his very close friendship,

"almost like a

brother"

, and would make other loans to him or be co-signer

for such notes, If DESIMONE so requested, and with no questions

asked.

LIPIN remarked that he has noticed, however, that in

spite of subject's comments about his meager law practice and

his occasional need of loans, he always has driven a relatively

"smokes long, black cigars"

LIPIN denied that he has had any contact whatsoever

with DESIMONE in the past few months or that he knows of his

whereabouts. He related that on about February 5, 1958, he

had been in Los Angeles on business

and he happened to see

"Cout to tate street piNa nation,

inquired about subject and was

that LEON did not know

subject's whereabouts.

LEON added, "You know FRANKIE.

He goes

and comes and just doesn't communicate with his family"

LIPIN stated that about the middle of February he was

tola by an individual whose identity ne woula not aisclose, that

subject had recently tried to call LIPIN, but since LIPIN had

moved, subject was unable to reach him.

LIPIN assumed that from

that conversation DESIMONE had been in San Diego, but that

was purely an assumption.

He promised to contact that source

and attempt to obtain additional Information concerning subject's

whereabouts and the telephone call at that particular time.

that he still

source, but that he had contacted

that source and learned

the source had, in about the middle of February, received a

telephone call from DESIMONE in which he had

said that he had

attempted

to, call LIPIN,

but without success. It is noted that

LIPIN has recently moved into a new home and into a new

business address.

However, should subject have made a determined

effort to contact LIPIN, he certainly should have succeeded.

LIPIN advised that this source would not disclose whether the

telephone call from DESIMONE was from a local or long distance

- 26 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 31

---

## Page 32

LA 92-107

telephone call, and he could furnish no additional information

as tò DESIMONE's whereabouts.)

LIPIN on February 28, 1958, continued that he knows

of no close associates of DESIMONE

either in Los Angeles or

San Diego, or other areas. He described most of subject's

associates as being of Italian extraction.

About 15 or so years

ago DESIMONE introduced LIPIN to the late GIRALOMO "MOMO" ADAMO

and LIPIN always considered "MOMO"

as a good friend because of

his having been introduced by DESIMONE.

Also DESIMONE has been

related in law practice with an attorney by the name of C. H.

AUGUSTINE in San Diego. He believes also that DESIMONE, in

has been invited to join the law firm of PROCOPIO,

PRICE, CORY & SCHWARTZ.

As to subject's personal habits, LIPIN informed that

DESIMONE considers himself a connoisseur of food and drink and

will spend several hours at a meal at a good restaurant.

He has

no known hobbies; no

serious girl friends, although he is much

interested in "women"; is not interested in sports or television;

is even-tempered and

not inclined to violence; is a light

drinker of alcoholic beverages.

He has known subject to

travel primarily in his personal automobile, which was last

known to have been a Cadillac, license and identifying data

unknown.

LIPIN Informed that subject is known, although not

Intimately, by his brother, LEWIS LIPTON

LIPIN openly stated that if he learns of DESIMONE'S

whereabouts, he will tell the subject that the FBI is interested

in locating him and suggest that DESIMONE contact the FBI.

He stated further that he will attempt to locate DESIMONE for

this purpose, but that he "probably would not" furnish information

to this office as to DESIMONE's whereabouts without first

talking to subject. He stated he was certain that if DESIMONE

1s hiding out, it is only to "protect someone"

On March 3, 1958, WILLIAM RICHARD LIPIN telephonically

contacted SA WILLIAM W. LeBAR and informed that he has reconsidered

the matter and will notify this office of any pertinent informa-

tion as to the whereabouts of DESIMONE; however, he could not

disclose his source which told him that subject had tried to

contact him earlier in February.

- 27-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 32

---

## Page 33

LA 92-107

The San Diego Office, on March 14, 1958, advised that

on March 3, 1958, Mr. LEWIS LIPTON, 5018 Marlborough, San

Diego, California, was interviewed at his place of business,

LEW LIPTON's Savoy, 1065 Fourth Avenue, San Diego, by

SA I. HYRUM CALLISTER and SA WILLIAM W. LeBAR. LIPTON informed

that he has known DESIMONE for 20 or more years, having met him

through his brother, BILL LIPIN, who had gone to school with

the subject.

He stated that he

does not know subject in a

social way, having rever gone out with him socially.

He knows

subject to be an avid horse race fan and "wouldn't miss a race

for anything"

He stated that he has not seen nor heard of

subject for months, but that he will advise this office of

information coming to his attention regarding subject.

LIPTON Informed further that DESIMONE had been

attorney for the deceased "MOMO" ADAMO, whose wife has since,

remarried and lives in San Diego. The former Mrs. ADAMO

reportedly married someone who is not Italian, now employed at

Convair, and as a result she may be "antagonistic" toward the

Italian element of San Diego. Her name might be determined from

MEL WILSON, U. S. National Bank.

He advised that he believes

subject was also attorney for TONY MIRABILE and PAUL MIRABILE.

(TONY MIRABILE is a San Diego local hoodlum on whom reports

have been forwarded and PAUL DIRABILE is a well known brother

of his.)

He believes that if DESIMONE came to San Diego,

SAM BOMPENSIERO will be certain to know of it.

LIPTON informed that DESIMONE is peculiar in his

eating habits and at times particular.

He stated that a couple

f vears ago he remarked that he could not lina a good mea

in San Diego and was going to the Bernardo Winery (operated by

VINCENT RIZZO, mentioned previously In this investigation)

for a meal.

LIPTON added that other Italians in the past have

to go to that winery occasionally for meals.

LIPTON stated that DESIMONE is an unusual individual

and his close associates other than mentioned above are not

known.

When DESIMONE was last seen by LIPTON, some months ago,

he told LIPTON during his conversation that he

thought his

office had been

"bugged" for a long time, reason not stated.

LIPTON informed that he would talk with his brother, BILI LIPIN,

to determine what information he could secure. During the

conversation with LIPTON, he volunteered that he has been in

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 33

---

## Page 34

IA 92-107

business in San Diego for a long time and that he has

become

acquainted with individuals in the bar and restaurant business

who are of Italian extraction. He mentioned among them the

MATRANGA brothers, who sought LIPTON's aid two or three years

ago in helping an

Italian named DI GREGORIO.

LIPTON described

DI GREGORIO as an Italian who appeared refined and possibly

with a university education who had come to Tijuana, B.C.,

Mexico, to seek entrance into the United States.

While there

he married one of the VITALE girls. He referred the matter

to an attorney named VERNE WARNER.

DI GREGORIO was not allowed

to enter and went back to Italy with his wife. A child was born

to them since.

He was again contacted by the MATRANGAS and wrote

to Representative BOB WILSON on his bahalf.

The last LIPTON

claims to have heara, DI GREGORIO was still in Italy.

29

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 34

---

## Page 35

LA 92-107

FRANK MARINO

was the registered owner of the

automobile used by the person making the payment to the subject's

loan account at the U. S. National Bank on March 3, 1958. It

has been established that the person making the payment was

SAM BOMPENSIERO, but in view of the fact that MARINO is a

bartender for SAM BOMPENSIERO, the following information is

being set forth concerning him at this point:

The records of the San Diego Merchants Credit

Association,

as made available by Mrs. OLIVE ROBINSON on

March 4, 1958, show that FRANK MARINO and his wife, SUZANNE,

have resided at 4007 Hope since 1951.

This individual is,

according to those files, the nephew

Of FRANK MARINO, 1360 Columbia,

and the son of JOE MARINo.

He is reported owner of Lamar Ura

Company, San Diego, of which there is no record. He has been

a fisherman and has been arrested as a suspect in bookmaking

by the San Diego Police Department. He does his banking at

the Security Trust and Savings Bank, Fifth and "E", San Diego.

The records of the San Diego Police Department,

as

made available on March 4, 1958, by Lieutenant JACK BAKER,

reflect that FRANK B. MARINO,

San Diego Police Department

Number 67910, FBI Number 1651123, was born at San Diego on

May 30, 1920, and was arrested on

a bookmaking charge on

November 13, 1950, the charge later being dismissed.

a suspected partner of a bookmaker named LLOYD HAINES. A

photograph of MARINO was secured.

Mrs. PATRICK GAVIN

4134 Lymer Drive

San Diego, California.

The San Diego Office, on March

14, 1950, advised that

Mrs. GAVIN was formerly married to "MOMO" ADAMO and

ApArted, allegedly she and DESIMONE had an "affair" as previously

ADAMO's suicide.

Through MEL WILSON, U. S. National Bank, the

San Diego Office determined that Mrs. GAVIN's present husband

is an engineer working for Convair and was reportedly left with

only meager resources when ADAMO committed suicide.

- 30 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 35

---

## Page 36

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

ASSOCIATES,

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

JOHN PERUMEAN

on March 12, 1950, Patrolman RICHARD BAUGH, Downey,

California Police Department, advised that PERUMEAN was a

close friend of DESIMONE, and during the day (March 12, 1958)

had advised that he considered himself the closest friend the

subject has in the city of Downey.

BAUGH said that PERUMEAN

expressed the attitude that the newspapers and law enforcement

agencies had harrassed the subject unreasonably, and he did

not think that the

subject would come out of hiding until he

decided to do so. He also told BAUGH that he was concerned

for the subject's safety because he had not heard from him

since the day the subject left for New York City in November,

1957•

On March 14, 1958, PERUMEAN advised SAA STINE

at his place of business, the Downey Motor Company, 8112

South Firestone Boulevard, Downey, California, that he met

the subject in 1923 and since that time has been with the

subject on at least a once-a-week basis when they were both

in the Los Angeles area (which includes Downey) .

He said

the subject left Downey for New York City intending to have

an eye operation performed by Dr. TAGLIAGAMBE In New York.

He said the subject did not want

his mother to know that he

was being operated on and wished to spare her concern for him.

PERUMEAN said that he had been in contact with the family

(DESIMONE) since FRANK left for New York City and had not

heard anything from them concerning his whereabouts since

approximately January 1, 1958. He said at that time he had

learned from Dr. JOE DESIMONE that the subject was in Tampa,

Florida, and presumed that he was recovering from an eye

operation.

He said that as of March 14, 1958, he was convinced

that Dr.

JOE DESIMONE did not know where his brother was.

PERUMEAN advised that he intended to go to the San Diego,

California area where he believed FRANK might possibly, be

with friends.

- 31-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 36

---

## Page 37

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

PERUMEAN said that he feels the subject has slighted

him in not keeping him informed of his whereabouts or condition.

He said that he regards the subject as "closer than a brother"

and feels that if the subject is in any difficulty they know

each other well enough to expect mutual help within their ability.

He said that from time to time in the past he has loaned the

subject money and has always been repaid..

He said he knows

that subject has not obtained a great deal of money from his

practice as an attorney within the past two or three years.

He advised the subject has taken clients who are unable to

pay or are considered so close as friends that he does not

charge them normal legal fees.

He

stated that the subject in 1954 and 1955 spent a

great deal of his time in San Diego defending FRANK BOMPENSIERO.

PERUMEAN stated that he is convinced from what

DESIMONE has said that BOMPENSIERO was "railroaded to prison."

He said the subject explained that BOMPENSIERO, who is now

in prison, was put there as the direct result of uncorroborated

testimony of one person who committed perjury. He advised that

he, PERUMEAN, shared the subject's attitude toward law enforce-

ment agencies in Los Angeles and San Diego that they have

not been fair in their dealings with DESIMONE'S

said he included in this category JACK DRAGNA,

"who was

by the Los Angeles Police Department."

PERUMEAN did not

amplify this remark but stated it was because of "deals like

that DESIMONE will have nothing to do with law enforce-

ment authorities.

PERUMEAN said that he has become increasingly

and believes there is a possibility that because of his

physical condition the subject may be seriously ill. He said

there is also the possibility that the subject is no longer

alive.

He advised that the subject has friends all over the

United States, and if he wished to hide out from the authorities

would be able

to do so foras long as he wished.

PERUMEAN

advised that he would try to determine where the subject was

but would not promise to alert this office in case his search

- 32 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 37

---

## Page 38

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

or inquiries were fruitful. He advised that he would inform

the subject and be guided by whatever he desired.

PERUMEAN said that recent stories in the Los Angeles

papers concerning the fact that the Federal Narcotics Bureau

is searching for the subject in order to serve him with a

subpoena has caused the subject's family a great deal of

embarrassment.

He advised that a local newspaper had called

the DESIMONE residence and had conversed with the subject's

sister, ROSALIE. He said the reporter "gave her a bad time."

PERUMEAN said that the subject is an inveterate

gambler and would not be at all surprised if when all the facts

are known the so-called Apalachin, New York "hoodlum convention"

was merely a gettogether by a group of friends wanting to

gamble.

He said he did not know any of the others who

were

present, except SIMONE SCOZZARI.

He advised that the subject is a close friend of

FRANK DIECIDUE, Tampa, Florida, who provides him with the

long black cigars which he, subject, always smokes. He said

that

TAGLIAGAMBE

was discharged from the service on the

West Coast, and after his discharge spent a great deal of

time with the subject in Los Angeles.

PERUMEAN

said that to his knowledge the subject

has never been engaged in any illegal activities. He said

the subject is a good attorney who usually represents fellow

Sicilians.

He said the subject's father, ROSARIO DESIMONE,

was regarded as a very influential person among the Sicilians

in the Los Angeles area, and as a result the subject has been

sought after by other persons of this nationality to do their

legal work.

He said the subject's father was a big gambler,

and many games of poker with high stakes were played among

friends in his home. He said the subject inherited his father's

proclivity for cards and has also an avid interest in the horse

races.

He said that. DESIMONE's close friends include

the BOMPENSIERO and the MIRABLI families in San Diego, California.

- 33-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 38

---

## Page 39

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

BEN J. TORTORICI

As previously

reported, there were several calls

from the subject's phone to TORTORICI, who resides at '7406

South Halldale Avenue.

T-I0 on March 14, 1958, ascertained that the following

toll calls were charged to TORTORICI's phone, PL 1-2646,

during the period September 13, 1957, through January, 1958:

City Called

Number Called

Dates of Calls

Tucson, Arizona

MA 2-9988

9/15/57

San Bernardino,

TU 2-6030

9/17/57; 10/23,30/57;

California

12/6/57

Buena Park,

LA 2-1139

9/19,21/57; 11/9/57

California

Ontario, California YU 2-4302

10/8,14/57

Riverside,

OV 9-9624

12/22/57

California

Pueblo, Colorado

LI 4-9308

10/14/57 - to S.

COLLETTI

San Franciscos

California

SK 1-9834

11/5/57 - to S.

COLLETTI

1/21/58

San Francisco,

california

SK 1-1237

1/21/58

The calls to TU 2-6030, San Bernardino, California,

were possibly to JOE DIPOLLITO,

a hoodlum to whom were traced

calls from the subject's phone and previously reported.

- 34 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 39

---

## Page 40

LA 92-107

CES : IFL

The calls to Pueblo, Colorado, number shown, appear

to have been made to JAMES COLLETTI, who

also attended the

Apalachin meeting. It is noted that one

of the calls listed

above was made on November 5, 195%

The subject left for

New York City on November 1e, 1951.

Through T-llit was ascertained that TORTORICI

has a safe deposit box and a savings account at the Florence

and Vermont Branch of the Bank of America, Los Angeles,

California. On March 17, 1950, T-Iladvised that TORTORICI

opened the savings account on August 31, 1952.

As of March

5, 1958,

the balance was $729.05.

He listed his occupation

as a tailor, his birthplace as Lucca Licanta, Italy, and his

mother's maiden name as ANTONIA DIGRADO.

The safe deposit

bOX,

number 24, was rented on November 16, 1954. The bank

does not maintain a

record of entries to these boxes, except

by date, and I-d said it would be almost impossible to determine

when TORTORICI entered this box. All records reflected his

address as 7406 South Halldale.

JACK. T. CANTELLA

As previously reported, CANTELLA was contacted

telephonically by someone making

; a call from the subject's

home phone.

These calls were made on September 25 and October

22, 1957.

Mr. WARNER, Investigator

Alcohol

Tax and Tobacco Unit, on April 4, 1958, advised

SAA STINE that pursuant to his investigation of DESIMONE

for possible violations of laws over which that agency has

jurisdiction, he had contacted CANTELLA to ascertain the

nature of the relationship between the subject and himself.

CANTELLA explained to WARNER on April 3, 1958, that the subject

was the brother of Dr. LEON DESIMONE, who cared for his

(CANTELLA's) mother a lew years ago..

He said he met the

subject and has enjoyed his friendship since that time.

He

explained to WARNER that he was last in touch with the subject

sometime in october, 1957, when he noted an obituary of a

person he thought was the

subject's mother. He said he called

- 35 -

NV 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 40

---

## Page 41

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

the subject. to convey his condolences because the obituary

included the names of LEON and FRANK as sons of the deceased.

He said he was informed at that time that the person who

died was an aunt. He said he has never been a close associate

of the

subject.

WARNER said that CANTELLA is now operating the Trojan

Rectifying Plant at 2365 East 57th Street, Los Angeles.

was convicted in 1935 and 1941

CANTELLA

in Cleveland, Ohio, for violation

of Federal liquor laws.

He has since received a Presidential

pardon, and his civil rights have been restored.

WARNER stated that CANTELLA said he had no knowledge

of the subject's whereabouts but would make inquiry and if

they become known to him would notify WARNER. WARNER advised

that he would immediately notify this office.

JOSEPH G. LEONE

As set forth elsewhere in this report, the El Rancho

Vegas Hotel purchased ashtrays from the Leone Glass and

Engineering Company, Los Angeles, California.

The person

responsible for introcuding a representative of this company

to the hotel was FRANK DESIMONE.

A Dun and Bradstreet credit report dated June 27,

1957, reflects that JOSEPH G. LEONE is the owner of this business,

located at 8028 South Garfield Avenue,

south Gate, California.

This business was started in June, 1940, as a partnership

with EDWARD B. BOURNE, who in March, 1953, filed suit for

dissolution of partnership and accounting.

LEONE then became

employed by the Frawly Corporation, Culver City, California,

until mid-1954 when he operated a company known as Leone

Originals from his residence at 6411 West Eighth Street, Los

Angeles.

This business specialized in costume jewelry which

was manufactured by others.

The present firm manufactures pressed glassware

such as tail lights, stop lights, ashtrays, drinking glasses,

etc.

The credit report does not show that the subject is

actively engaged in this business.

- 36 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 41

---

## Page 42

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

CHARLES D. BENEDETTO.

It has been previously reported that BENEDETTO

operates the West Coast Burglar Alarm System in Los Angeles,

California.

A Retail Merchants Credit Association report issued

in January, 1958, reflects only that he resides at 4160

Guthwalte Avenue,

California.

He is listed

as the owner of the B. & G. Market, 4031 South Main Street,

Los Angeles, California, and the West Coast Alarm System

at an address which is not shown.

Another address appearing

on the form, 4256 Don Arellanes Drive, Los Angeles, appears

without reference to either a business or residence address.

No further information appeared there or in the records of

the Los Angeles Police Department or Los Angeles County Sheriff's

Office, which were checked on March 19, 1958, by SE LLOYD H.

DUDLEY.

GAGLIO Brothers

It has previously been reported

California firm issued

these site that we peace,

in his "Clients Account" at the Downey, California Branch,

Bank of America.

Mr. WARNER of the Alcohol Tax and Tobacco Unit

on April 4, 1958, advised SAA STINE that he had contacted this

firm relative to

their business dealings with the subject.

He advised that they had retained the subject as their attorney

certificates of this firm, and within a matter of a few weeks

will be required to supply these in order that his clients

may obtain a new permit to operate their business.

WARNER said that JACK GAGLIO had informed him that

they have been anxiously trying to locate the subject in

order that the permit (not further identified) would be issued.

He said that incidental to these efforts he has contacted

- 37.-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 42

---

## Page 43

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

Attorney G. VERNON BRUMBAUGH within the past few weeks and

received the impression from BRUMBAUGH that the subject's

whereabouts are unknown.

WARNER advised that GAGLIO said

BRUMBAUGH would be utilized as an attorney in the place of

DES IMONE in the event the subject was not located.

WARNER

advised that he would keep this office informed of the subject's

whereabouts.

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 43

---

## Page 44

LA 92-107

LOS ANGELES AREA - ASSOCIATES, CONTINUED

WINTHROP L. BROWN

Vice President and Manager

Arroyo - Colorado Branch

Bank of America

160 East Colorado Street

Pasadena, California

On March 27, 1950, BROWN advised that he is very

probably the W. L. BROWN used by FRANK DESIMONE in the latter's

application for 1942 employment at the Solar Aircraft Company.

He said in 1942 he was the manager of the Fourth and Spring

Streets branch of the Bank of America and knew the subject as a

customer of the bank.

BROWN said he knew the subject was an

attorney and knew nothing of him except as a bank customer.

ANTHONY BENFATTI

I-12, on March 10, 1950, advised that he had learned

from a

source he did not care to disclose that BENFATTI waS

out of the Los Angeles area caring for a sick friend. T-12

said that his source knew that BENFATTI and DESIMONE were

friends and mentioned that there was a possibility that the

sick friend might be the subject.

On March 17, 1958, Mrs. JOE SAIDLIN, Apartment

Manager,

4001 Coco Avenue, Los Angeles, advised SA CHARLES E.

STINE (A) that BENFATTI was one of her

tenants and had left

town about January 15,

end of March 14-15, 1958.

She said she did not know where

BENFATTI had been.

She said he did mention that due to the

freeze of the Florida citrus and produce crops, he was going

East.

She said she did not know what he meant

by this

expression, but believed that he may have gone to Florida.

She advised she had no way of knowing where he had been.

On April 1, 1958, Mrs. SAIDLIN advised that BENFATTI

apparently was again out of town.

She 'said it was apparent

that his apartment had not been disturbed for approximately

one week and she did not know his present whereabouts.

T- 12, on April 1, 1958, advised that his source stated

that BENFATTI had left town and would be gone for approximately

two weeks.

T-12 said that from what the source stated, he

believed that BENFATTI was going to go to Idaho.

39-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 44

---

## Page 45

LA 92-107

T-13, on March 17, 1958, advised that BENFATTI had

a regular commercial checking account at the 48th and Western

Branch of the Bank of America, Los Angeles. I-13 advised that

this account was opened on March 12, 1954, and as of March 17,

1958, there was a balance of $86.55. He made application for

and

received a $500 90-day loan

on December 30, 1957. On his

loan application he listed his employment as a produce buyer at

the Los Angeles City Market.

The purpose of the loan was to

"make good purchases due to surplus supplies"

He listed a

reference as his brother, JOSEPH BENFATTI, but the address was

illegible.

The bank signature card reflected that he was born

in Pueblo, Colorado, and that his mother's maiden name was.

F. GARRIDOMANDO.

Since 1954 he had several loans ranging from

$500 to $1600 and appeared to be prompt in his payments.

The Los Angeles Police Department records on March 25,

1958, as checked by SA STINE, revealed that BENFATTI had been

arrested five times between 1946 and 1956 on various gambling

charges.

He was arrested in August, 1949, at 2307 West 54th

Street and found to be in possession of bookmaking paraphernalia.

His attorney was JOE FORN' 64th Street.

JOE BENFATTI, at 1639 West

(There is no current

listing in the Los Angeles city telephone directories for JOE

BENFATTI. )

ANTHONY BENFATTI 'S FBI Number is 4589521, and his

date of birth is shown as November 29, 1911, at Pueblo,

Colorado.

i - 40.

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 45

---

## Page 46

IA 92-107'

CES: IF'L

SALIVAL AOTIVITIES

Organized Crime - Meeting ot

Hoodlums, Apalachin, New York,

November

14, 1957

Or March 14, 1958, the Dallas Office advised that

Attorney W. 1. BRAECKIEIN had informed SA VINCENT E. DRAIN

that he haû been retained by JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO as

counsel in connectior with an investigation by the Internal

Revenue Burtau o" CIVELLO's income tax returns.

Incidental

to this relationssip ERAECKLEIN related that CIVELLO told him

he had been invited to attend the Apalachin meeting by FRANK

DESIMONE, whom he referred to as a cousin.

He said when he

asked CIVELLO what degree of relationship DESIMONE was to him,

the reply was "just a cousin.

ERAECKLEIN stated that CIVELLO

told him further thai he went to this meeting with DESIMONE

and that he did not, know beforehand that such a meeting was

to be held.

The philadelphia Office on March 17, 1958, advised

that phone calls made from the rooms occupied

and SCOZZARI at the Hotel Casey, Scranton, Pennsylvania,

on the night of November 13, 1957, reflect that there were

three calls made.

One was to Preno's Restaurant, which has

- recently been destroyed by fire.

Another call was to the

Pennsylvania Drape and Curtain Company, which business is

owned and operated by RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, a Philadelphia

top hoodlum.

The last call was made to the A. B. & S.

Contracting

; Company, 161 South Main Street, Pittston,

Pennsylvania, which is also owned by BUFALINO.

- 41 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 46

---

## Page 47

LA 92-10%

CES : LFL

Los Angeles newspapers on March 10, 1958, carried

stories to the effect that the Los Angeles Federal Narcotics

Bureau was seeking DESIMONE in order to serve a subpoena

for his appearance before a Federal Grand Jury in New York

City which was investigating the Apalachin meeting.

On March 18, 1958, the New York Office advised that

Assistant United States Attorney STEPHEN KAUFMAN had verified

that a subpoena is presently outstanding for DESIMONE to

appear before the Federal Grand Jury in the Southern District

of New York and that the Federal Narcotics Bureau had been

requested to attempt to serve this.

On March 31, 1958, SA LARRY KATZ, Federal Narcotics

Bureau, Los Angeles, California, was contacted by SA's WILLIAM

JOHN NOLAN and CHARLES E, STINE (A) • KATZ advised he had

learned fron informanüs,

which he did not disclose, that

the subject might possibly be in the San Diego-Tijuana area.

He said that his best source was to the effect that the subject

was living in Tijuana as the guest of GASPARE MATRANGA.

He

advised that until FRANK's whereabouts are known it will not

be possible to serve the subpoena unless he is in the United

States.

KATz said he would keep this office informed of any

developments of the subject of the service of the subpoena.

Prior to the above contact with KATZ, to whom

the above Agents were referred by HOWARD CHAPPELL, the Los

Angeles head of the Federal Narcotics Bureau, KATZ had been

out of town for several days and contact was

not immediately

possible.

42 -

NWV 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 47

---

## Page 48

LA 92-10%

CES: LFL

Organized Crime - Mafia

FABIO DE GREGORIO (also spelled and previously

referred to as DI GREGORIO, was interviewed on March 20,

1958, at the U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,

San Ysidro, California, when he applied for "parole" into

the United

States to be near his wife who is eight months

pregnant.

Previously it was reported that DE GREGORIO had

named DESIMONE as the person who had assumed leadership of

the Mafia in Southern California after JACK DRAGNA's death.

The San Diego Office on March 21, 1958, advised in

addition to the above, that DE GREGORIO related much the same

information as he had

furnished a Federal Narcotics Officer

in Rome, Italy, in January, 1957. He said he did not personally

Know DESIMONE, nor did he now know where the subject might

possibly be.

He said he recognizes the subject's name only

as one mentioned about in San Diego during 1955 when he was

there.

He said he does

not recall the circumstances under

which the subject's name was brought up but does remember

that he received the impression that the name was treated with

considerable respect.

He said also that the name had been

mentioned by one of the

ADAMOS in San Diego, but he was unable

to state which member of this family had said anything about

the subject. DE GREGORIO said he did not recognize the subject's

photo.

He said that he had read in Italian newspapers

a list of the individuals present at the Apalachin meeting

but did not recall that the name DESIMONE was included. He

said he reviewed this list with his wife in Italy and that

she acknowledged recognizing two or three of the names, including

PRIZIOLA. He said he did not recall the other names which

seemed tò make an impression on his wife.

DE GREGORIO said that his family is engaged in

an import-export business in Italy and that he has no blood

relatives in the United states; that the only relatives

are through marriage and that he has not been taken into

confidence by the SALVATORE VITALE family so far as business

matters are concerned. He said he has been treated well as a

- 43-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 48

---

## Page 49

LA 92-107

CES : LFL

son-in-law by his wife's family who come from a rather low

social strata in Italy.

He said he has not become acquainted

with the activities of his in-laws' family in the United States.

On February 28, 1958, the San Diego Office advised

that DE GREGORIO arrived

at tijuana, Baja California, Mexico,

from Italy on February 27, 1958. He traveled via New York,

San Francisco, and Los Angeles.

hoother.

He was met at the Tijuana

Airport by LEO MATRANGA, brother of JOE MATRANGA, a San Diego

local hoodlum.

On March 20, 1958, the San Diego Office advised that

T-14 informed that the

MATRANGA family had rented an apartment

in Tijuana at Number 374 Avenida Guanajuato but it had been

unoccupied because DE GREGORIO did not wish to live in the

immediate vicinity of JASPER (GASPARE) MATRANGA, a deportee

from the United States. T-14 said that DE GREGARIO wishes to

avoid contact in Tijuana with any questionable element in

order to further his case for entry into the United States.

T-14 stated that on March 1, 1958, DE GREGORIO had been contacted

by a person referred to as

Mr. CAPPELLO (phonetic) who might

possibly be identical with HOWARD CHAPPELL, head of the Federal

Narcotics Bureau, Los Angeles, California.

T-14 said this

'U. S. Government

agency to date has barred the possibility

Of DE GREGORIO's entry into the United States owing to a

family (VITALE) history of dealing in narcotics.

In connection with the foregoing, it had previously

been reported that DE GREGORIO wants to return to the United

States in order to determine who killed his father-in-law,

SALVATORE VITALE, who was last heard of in the first week of

May, 1955, at Detroit, Michigan.

In connection with this, CLARENCE RICHARDS, an

investigator for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office,

Intelligence Squad, on March 4, 1950, advised SAA STINE

that he had become

acquainted in late 1955 with one of

SALVATORE VITALE'S sons.

RICHARDS explained that VITALE's

son, whose name was not immediately recalled, was hitchhiking

along a main thoroughfare in Southeastern Los Angeles.

- 44 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 49

---

## Page 50

LA 92-107

CES: LFL

RICHARDS said he offered VITALE a ride, and during the course

of conversation VITALE noted that RICHARDS was a detective

and commented that his father's disappearance had never been

satisfastorily investigated. RICHARDS said that he met

the VITALE son on one other occasion within a few days follow-

ing his first contact and at that time the VITALE bOy

said

that news that his father would not be seen again was first

brought to the VITALE family by FRANK DESIMONE,

the subject.

RICHARDS said that VITALE explained that DESIMONE had never

before or since been seen in the VITALE household. RICHARDS

said that he tried to contact VITALE a few times following

this second meeting and was politely informed that the

VITALE boy had mentioned the meeting with RICHARDS to his

family, and they told him to say nothing more about the

incident.

RICHARDS said it was not possible to engage this

person in conversation any further on the disappearance of his

father or of the part played by DESIMONE in notification to

his mother about the disappearance.

- 45 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 50

---

## Page 51

LA 92-107

HANGOUTS AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

1958, ALEXANDER PERINO, owner of

Perino's Restaurant,

on March 314101 Wilshire Boulevard, advised SA

CHARLES E. STINE (A) that he has been unable

to determine

from any sources the present whereabouts of the subject.

He said that the person he believes closest to DESIMONE

IS JOHN ROSELLI, who lives at the tropicana Hotel in Las

Vegas, 'Nevada.

PERINO said that he did not press ROSELLI

on the subject of DESIMONE's whereabouts when he last saw

ROSELLI about two weeks earlier.

He said that he detected

in ROSELLI a reluctance to discuss DESIMONE some time ago;

and also advised that ROSELLI has not been as polite to

him (PERINO) in their recent dealings.

PERINO had advised earlier that the subject was

friendly with

BELDON KATLEMAN, principal owner of

the El

Rancho Vegas Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, and on occasions in

the past the subject, when in Las Vegas, has stayed at

KATLEMAN'S hotel.

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

On March 21, 1958, KATLEMAN advised SA BRYON C.

WHEELER at Las Vegas

that he became acquainted with the

subject about 1951 when the subject stayed at the El Rancho

Vegas as a guest. He said he is not closely acquainted with

subject and has not seen him

since approximately October 21,

1957, when the subject, whom he knew as an attorney and

close friend of ROSELLI, stayed at his hotel.

KATLEMAN advised that when the subject was last

at the hotel he introduced a man to him who was then selling

ash trays from Los Angeles.

He said he received a good price

for these articles from this person and placed a substantial

order for the hotel. SA WHEELER later determined that the

hotel purchased its ash trays from the Leone Glass and

Engineering Company, 8828 South Garfield, South Gate,

California,

and that the person

identified with this

• firm is JOSEPH G.

LEONE.

- 46 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 51

---

## Page 52

LA 92-107

KATLEMAN had been interviewed on March 3, 1958, by

SA'S ROBERT FETZNER and ELMER F. EMRICH at the Eden Roc

Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida.

He gave essentially the same

information concerning his association with the subject

during this interview as is set forth earlier in connection

with his interview at Salt Lake CIty on March 21, 1958.

ROBERT CANNON, Manager, Tropicana Hotel, Las

Vegas, has been interviewed by SA WHEELER on January 30,

1958; February 14 and 25, 1958.

He has advised that

DESIMONE has stayed at the hotel as a guest on only one

occasion since the hotel was opened in April, 1957.

On all occasions when he was contacted, CANNON advised that

the subject was not registered as a guest.

CANNON said that he has known the subject for

about ten years, having met him first at the El Rancho

Vegas Hotel, where he, CANNON was then manager.

He said

the subject is the type of individual who liked to give the

impression of being a millionaire,

whereas actually he is a

very "cheap" person. He said that he is quite certain that

if the subject were to come to las vegas, he would definitely

contact him and would stay at either the

Tropicana or the El

Rancho. Vegas Hotel.

On February 25, 1958, MICKEY COLIHAN, Casino

Manager, Tropicana Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, advised SA

WHEELER he is personally acquainted with the subject, but

had not seen subject in las Vegas for three or four months.

He stated he did not know subject's present whereabouts,

but would advise the Las Vegas Resident Agency in the event

he received information concerning subject.

On February 25, 1958, PHIL LONG, Pit Boss,

Tropicana Hotel; KEITH CAMPBELL, in charge of slot machines,

El Rancho Vegas

Hotel; and JACKIE FIELDS, former world

champion boxer and presently host at the

Riviera Hotel,

all advised they had seen subject at Las Vegas from time

they stated it had been several

FIELDS stated he was former host until approximately one

month

ago at the El Rancho Vegas Hotel and that he recalls

having seen subject at the El Rancho Vegas Lounge on occasions,

but had not seen him for a period of several months.

•- 47-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 52

---

## Page 53

LA 92-107

On February 26, 1958, CHARLES BARON, Part-owner,

Tropicana Hotel, advised

SA WHEELER he is not acquainted

with the subject and that he has not seen an individual bearing

a resemblance to the

subject at the hotel.

the hotel an ence vanad bearing

The following hotels were contacted on February 26,

1958, and advised they had no person by the name of FRANK

DESIMONE registered as a guest. All hotels are at Las Vegas,

Nevada:

Flamingo

Tropicana

Sahara

Sands

Riviera

Fremont

El Rancho Vegas

Wilbur Clark's Desert Inn

Hacienda

Thunderbird

Royal Nevada

New Frontier

Dunes

Colonial

House

El Cortez

CARL COHEN, Vice President and former casino

manager,

Sands Hotel, Las Vegas, advisea on February 14,

1958, he has heard the name of

• DESIMONE but that the latter

is not personally known

to him.

He stated DESIMONE is not

registered at the Sands Hotel at the present time.

not a registered guest at the hotel and that he is not

personally acquainted with the subject.

MIAMI, FLORIDA

On February 21, 1958, SA ROBERT FETZNER, Miami

Office, checked with ED MCMANN,

Thoroughbred Racing Association;

JOHN MEDALA, and WILLIAM HAND of the Hialeah Track Police.

These individuals advised that DESIMONE had not been seen during

the current racing season at this track, nor had any information

been received by them indicating the subject had been at that

track during the current racing season.

- 48-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 53

---

## Page 54

LA 92-107

TIJUANA, MEXICO

On March 11, 1958, former SA KEITH JONEN District

Assistant

Chief, Investigations Division, Los Angeles County

Attorney's Office, advised that one of his investigators

had learned by contact with an unnamed Federal Narcotics

Bureau agent that DESIMONE was residing at 950 Avenida

Negrete, Tijuana, Mexico, as the guest of JASPER (GASPARE)

MATRANGA.

On March 20, 1958, the San Diego Office advised

that it had been determined

that MATRANGA had not resided

at that address for approximately two years; that he is

now residing at Avenida Guanajuato 252, Tijuana, from which

place he presently operates a small cold meat and cheese

business.

Through T-15's survillances of that address and

MATRANGA's residence, no indication that DESIMONE is or has

been at either address was obtained.

T-15 by contact with

the landlady at the Las Vegas Apartment Hotel, Avenida

Negrete 950, ascertained that the name of the

subject was

not familiar to her.

T-15 talked

to MATRANGA under pretext

and no information indicating that DESIMONE had recently been

in Tijuana was obtained, according to the San Diego office.

On February 27, 1958, I-16, who frequents the

Caliente Race Track at Tijuana,

B.C., Mexico, advised that

he recognized the photograph of DESIMONE as an individual

who had been at the track many times with a former San Diego

prosecuting attorney named AUGUSTINE.

He said he had

not

seen either of them within recent weeks.

- 49

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 54

---

## Page 55

LA 92-107

MISCELLANEOUS

NEVADA TAX COMMISSION

On February 25, 1958, the Salt Lake City Office advised

that the following inquiries were made by SA CARROL T. NEVIN

at Carson City, Nevada:

On January 27, 1958, the files of the Nevada Tax

Commission, Gaming Control Board, were reviewed by Mr. WILLIAM

SINNOTT, Board Member, without Locating any reference to the

subject.

Mr. ROBBINS CAHILL, Secretary, and Mr. SINNOTT,

Board Member,

both

stated

they had heard of FRANK DESIMONE,

but could not recall that DESIMONE had ever represented any

applicants for gambling licenses appearing before the Gambling

Control Board.

INCOME TAX

By letter dated March 24, 1950, the New York Office

forwarded income tax returns filed

by FRANK DESIMONE for the

years 1951 - 1956.

These tax returns were confidentially furnished

by the United States Attorney, Southern District of New York,

relative to the subject. Inasmuch as information concerning

the subject's tax returns for these years has been previously.

reported, they are not being set forth again at this point.

AUTOMOBILE

On March 10, 1950, the Chicago Office advised that

Exchange,

SANDSTROM money order number CO27209, of the Cal-Madison Currency

Exchange.

It was dated May 15, 1950, remittor FRANK

DESMOND, made out pay to the order of Nodell Cadillac in the

amount of $4,017. It was signed C. MCCLORY on the line for

authorized signature.

This money order was drawn on the Exchange

National Bank, Chicago, Illinois. Endorsements on the back were

Nodell Cadillac, HAROLD A. NODELL, President, First National

Bank of Milwaukee, Nodell Cadillac, Inc., Federal Reserve Bank,

Chicazo, May 17, 1956.

- 50 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 55

---

## Page 56

LA 92-107

Mrs. MCCLORY advised that the application made out

for this money order was disposed of when the check was

returned after payment.

She searched the files for a possible

signature card of the person who applied for the money order,

but stated none is maintained and he was definitely not a

regular customer of the currency exchange.

She stated she does

not recall the individual, does not recall anything about the

transaction, and the only thing maintained is the money order

itself.

She

stated the purchaser did not sign anything on the

money order.

HANDWRITING AND HAND PRINTING SPECIMENS

The San Diego Office on March 21, 1958, provided a

photostat of a five page application for employment executed

by the subject on July 27, 1942, at the Solar Aircraft Company,

San Diego.

On March 12, 1958, I. E. MCDANNAID, General Petroleum

Company, Santa Fe Avenue and 28th Street, Los Angeles, made

available a typewritten letter addressed

to him by FRANK

DESIMONE. The envelope in which this letter, dated August 24,

1955, was enclosed is hand printed and bears a printed return

address of the subject at 9441 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly

Hills, California.

The letter and envelope have been photographed

and along with the aforementioned application for employment,

will be forwarded to the Bureau as samples of the subject's

handwriting, hand printing, and typewriter characteristics.

ENCLOSURES:

TO THE BUREAU, DETROIT, NEW YORK, SAN DIEGO and

SAN FRANCISCO OFFICES

DED

REVIEWED BY ABWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

2/21/98 dat

• RELEASE IN FULL

L

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

_P -

-51-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 56

---

## Page 57

-..

LA 92-107

INFORMANTS

SYMBOL NUMBER

I-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

I-5

I-6

I-7

T-8

INFORMANT

PAT LACKEY, 9441

WIlshire Boulevard,

LOS Angeles

AGENT TO WHOM FURNISHED

ROBERT R. CARMICHAEL, JT.

and

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

ROBERT SANDS, Loan

Officer, Security

First National Bank,

Downey, California

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

RICHARD SNYDER,

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

Pro Assistant Cashier,

Bank of America,

Downey, California

R. II. WARNER, General SE JAMES I. MAHAN

Telephone Company,

•Santa Monica, California

PCI HENRY MILANO,

7843 Florence Avenue,

Downey, California

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

Central Investigation

Bureau, New York City

Police Department

RICHARD A. ANDERSON

New York PCI ADRIAN

SCOGGIN

RICHARD A. ANDERSON

GLADYS SHEPHERD,

Pacific Telephone and

Telegraph Company,

San Diego, California

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 52 -

--—-

NW 68262 Docld:32316427 Page 57

---

## Page 58

LA 92-107

SYMBOL NUMBER

T-9

INFORMANTS, CONTINUED

INFORMANT

Not utilized

AGENT TO WHOM FURNISHED

T-10

T-11

T-12

T-13

T-14

T-15

T-16

CSLA 2

GERALD K. SORENSON,

Assistant Cashier,

Bank of America,

Florence - Vermont

Branch, Los Angeles

VIC DENISI, LOS

Angeles County

District Attorney.

Investigator

C. F. GILLESPIE,

Chief Clerk, 40th -

Western Branch, Bank

oI America, LoS

Angeles

PCI JESSE C. HILL

Immigration Counsellor

Tijuana, B.C., Mexico

SD 886-C

SD PCI ARMANDO VERDUGO,

Tijuana, B.C., Mexico

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 53 -

SE JAMES L. MAHAN

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

CHARLES E. STINE (A)

NW 68262 Docld:32316427 Page 58

---

## Page 59

LA 92-107

ADMINISTRATIVE

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

Informants Utilized to Date

LA 3445-C

LA

3923-C

SD 886-C

Potential Criminal Informants

Utilized to Date

'DAN SCARIANO - travel agent through whom subject

arranges travel.

ALEXANDER PERINO - Los Angeles restaurateur and

friend of subject as well as other top hoodlums.

HENRY MILANO - family friend.

B. C., Mexico.

JESSE C. HILI, Immigration Counsellor, Tijuana,

ARMANDO VERDUGO, Tijuana, B.C., Mexico.

ADRIAN SCOGGIN - New York Potential Criminal Informant

who knows

"VICKIE" GARGUILO.

Contemplated Additional Informant Coverage

Mrs. NORMAN HARUET - Neighbor and close friend of

subjeci's sister.

HARUET (nee

ELEANOR FARMER) worked as FBI

clerk at SOG.)

GENE LEMONS - Operates Trash Disposal Service

covering subject's residence.

HUGO GEHLING - Landlord. Will provide access to

residence.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 54 -

NW 68262 Docld:32316427 Page 59

---

## Page 60

LA 92-10%

CES: LFL

ADMINISTRATIVE

In the "Organized Crime - Mafia" section of this

report there was reference to an interview by FABIO DE GREGORIO.

In January, 1957, he was interviewed by CHARLES SIRAGUSA,

a Federal

Narcotics Agent in Rome, Italy.

on March 4, 1958,

a copy of the report of this interview was obtained from SAM

DOUGLAS, Los Angeles County, Sheriff's Office, Intelligence

Squad.

Due to the length of this memorandum it has not been

set forth fully in the body of this report. Photostatic

copies have been prepared and are attached hereto to copies

of this report designated for the Detroit, New York, San

diego, and san Francisco Offices and for the Bureau.

page

+ of this photostat in the penultimate paragraph there

is reference to a Hollywood movie producer.

in the pena. imate parate poetbre

that this person is JOHN ROSELLI, a top Los Angeles hoodlum

on whom separate reports have been prepared.

On page 6 in the penultimate paragraph there is

reference to a murder.

It is possible that this victim was

FRANK BORGIA, FBI Number 509119.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 55 -

NWV 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 60

---

## Page 61

LA 92-107

Subject has not been in the Los Angeles area

since November 11, 1957. When he returns, a surveillance

will begin and when his current associates and pattern of

activities are established, Los Angeles will be in a

better position to plan appropriate coverage. Meanwhile,

established contacts with banks and telephone company, as

set forth in this report, will continue.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- - 56 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 61

---

## Page 62

LA 92-107

Information copies of this report have been designated

or the Albany, Boston, Burialo, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver,

Newark,

Philadelphia,

as top hoodlums of those divisions also attended the

Apalachin, New

York, meeting.

One information copy has been designated for Detroit

in view of the pertinent information contained in the photostat

covering the Federal Narcotics Bureau interview of FABIO

De GREGORIO.

Additional copies have also been designated for the

LoS Angeles Division In view of surveillance investigation in

widely separated residential communities within the Los Angeles

area.

Careful consideration has been given to the use of

"T" symbols in the enclosed report. Their identities have been

made known to the Bureau in accordance with Bureau instructions.

LEADS

CHICAGO OFFICE

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

1. At the Cal-Madison Currency Exchange, 2746

West Madison, in accordance with Los Angeles airtel dated

March 14, 1958, will attempt to determine the source of funds

2 , be

identify a bank on which the check was drawn to purchase the

money order.

2.

Will, in the event the source of these funds

leads to known Chicago hoodlums, report the nature of the

subject's association with them, if known.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 57-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 62

---

## Page 63

LA 92-107

MIAMI OFFICE

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Will continue to hold this case in a pending status.

until the subject's whereabouts are known, and until that time

will arrange to periodically contact Dr. A. P. PERZIA and the

DIE CIDUE brothers, FRANK and ANTHONY.

These persons were

friendly with the subject at the time of his eye operation

and recuperation during November, 1957 - January, 1958.

NEW YORK OFFICE

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK

*

1.' Will maintain contact with the office of the

United States Attorney, Southern District. of New York, and

report results of

the Federal Grand

Jury investigating

appearance or non-appearance before.

FK Law 10(a\2

*,

Will maintain contact with Dr. VITO La ROCCA,

30 Parl Avenue, and Mr.

MARIO T. TAGLIAGAMBE to determine if

the subject's

whereabouts is known to them.

Will display photograph of subject and YOLANDA

GARGUILO,

FBI Number 5051782, to PCI ADRIAN SCOGGIN, and

determine if she is Identical with "VICKIE" GARGUILO, and

also if subject has

been

observed recently at GARGUILO's

apartment, 156 west 20th Street, New York City.

4.

Will review the reports submitted to date in the

subject case (FRANK DESIMONE) and compare information submitted

therein

with the results of investigation on JAMES PLUMERI,

described as a New York Office top hoodlum In New York letter

to Los Angeles dated March 18,

1958.

If there appears to be a

mutuality of associates, so advise.

5.

Will maintain contact with the office of. the

United States Attorney, Southern District of New York, and

report service or cancellation of the subpoena issued by that

office for

Investigating

to appear before a special grand jury

(The Federal Narcotics

Bureau has been requested to serve this subpoena.)

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

-58-

10a2

NW 68262 Docld:32316427 Page 63

---

## Page 64

IA 92-107

(This case should be maintained in a pending status

until the subject's whereabouts are known or until the United

States Attorney,

Southern District of New York, cancels the

subpoena for the

to appear before the Federal Grand

Jury there.

SALT LAKE CITY OFFICE

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

Will periodically contact BELDON KATLEMAN and JOHN

ROSELLI, as well as other established logical informants at

the El Rancho Vegas and Tropicana Hotels to ascertain the

subject's whereabouts.

PHOENIX OFFICE

AT TUCSON, ARIZONA

Will identify the subscriber to telephone number

MA 2-9988, which was called September 15, 1957, from one of

the telephones available to SAM BOMPENSIERO.

SAN DIEGO OFFICE

AT SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

1. Will continue to monitor the subject's loan and

checking account at the El Cajon Branch of the U. S. National

Will maintain contact with WILLIAM LIPIN, the

co-signer of the subject's note at the U. S. National Bank.

3. Will also maintain contact with LEWIS LIPTON,

brother of LIPIN, in order to determine 1f LIPIN is cooperating

fully.

4.

Will trace telephone calls made from the telephones

Of WILLIAM LIPIN and SAM BOMPENSIERO, as well as calls made

from TONY MIRABLE's telephone.

JFK Law 10(a)2

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 59 ÷

loat

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 64

---

## Page 65

LA 92-107

Will Interview Mrs. PATRICK GAVIN, 4134 Lymer

Drive,

concerning the subject and

his position in the

"Mafia"

She is

the widow of GIROLAMO "MOMO" ADAMO, and it has been

reported that she and the subject were amorously inclined

toward each other prior to "MOMO's" suicide.

Will review reports submitted to date in this

(DESIMONE case with the results of investigation of other

hoodlums of Sicilian extraction active in the san Diego area.

In the event there appears to be a mutuality of friends or

interests so advise, setting forth a summary of such information.

7.

Will attempt to determine the identities of the

children of

SALVATORE VITALE and consider the advisability

of contacting them for information concerning the death of their

father. In the event of contacts with members of the VITALE

Iamily,

they should not be limited to a discussion of how

DESIMONE fits into the "Mafia"

picture in San Diego, but should

include reference to other known San Diego and Los Angeles top

nooalums.

In connection with this lead, see the last

paragraph of Page 42 of the

report.

8. Will maintain contact with PCI JESSE C. HILL

(T-14) and attempt to develop information on the subject and

other top hoodlums of Sicilian ancestry through his contacts

with FABIO Di GREGORIO.

SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

1. Will identify the

subscribers to telephone

numbers SK 1-9834 and

1-1237, called January 21, 1958, from

telephone available

to SAM BOMPENSIERO.

2.

Will, incidental to the investigation of JAMES

LANZA and J. CERRITO, who may have attended the Apalachir

are unknown and the possibility that he may be in the san

Francisco

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 60 -

NW 68262-Doeld:32316427-Page 65

---

## Page 66

LA 92-107

LOS ANGELES OFFICE

AT BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA

WIll maintain contact with DAN SCARIANO, 3946 North

Bedfora Drive, to be kept informed

Of DESIMONE's travel

arrangements.

AT ONTARIO, CALIFORNIA

Will, at Gaglio Brothers, a beer distributing firm,

attempt to establish a contact who may be in a position to

advise of the subject's location.

This firm uses DESIMONE as

their attorney and, according to the Alcohol Tax and Tobacco

Unit of the United States Treasury Department, are trying to

get in touch with the subject.

AT VAN NUYS, CALIFORNIA

*

Will contact WILLIAM GARDNER, owner, Valley Auto

Sales Company, and ascertain the nature of his contacts with

the subject.

The subject's telephone calls included telephone

calls to GARDNER's telephone when, the latter lived at 7922

Flight Avenue, Los Angeles, in late 1957.

AT DOWNEY, CALIFORNIA

1. Will continue to contact the subject's neighbors,

NORMAN HARUET, 7839 Adoree Street, and RICHARD POWELL, 7833

Comolette Street, for information concerning the subject's

Both Mrs. HARUET (a former FBI employee) and

Mrs. POWELL

whereabouts. (wife of a California Highway Patrolman) are

friendly with the subject's sister, ROSALIE DESIMONE.

2. Will continue to obtain a record of all telephone

calls made from the subject's telephone, Topaz 2-3106, and his

brother's home telephone, Topaz 2-5988 and business telephone,

LO 7-2137, and identify subscribers to the numbers called.

Will continue to monitor bank accounts of the

subject at the Bank of America and the accounts of his mother,

ROSALIA DESIMONE at this bank and also at the security First

National Bank.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 61 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 66

---

## Page 67

LA 92-107

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

*

1.

Will obtain background information on JOE ALECCIA,

2008 West 74th Street, who is the subscriber to telephone number

PI 9-0992. This number was called from the subject's home

during the perioa January 1, 1957, - July 9, 1957.

2.

Will contact EDWARD B. BOURNE, former partner

with JOSEPH G. LEONE in the operation of the Leone Glass and

Engineering Company, and determine from BOURNE the nature of

the relationship between LEONE and FRANK DESIMONE.

3. Will consider contacting CHARLES D. BENEDETTO,

owner of the West Coast Burglar Alarm Company and the B & G Market,

4031 South Main Street. He has been described as a cousin of

the subject.

4.

Will maintain contact with Mr. WARNER, Alcohol

Tax and Tobacco-Unit, U.S. Treasury Department, who is conducting

an investigation of

the subject.

5. Will maintain contact with SA LARRY KATZ, Federal

Narcotics Bureau, who is attempting to locate subject in order

to serve a subpoena on him to appear before a special grand

jury in the Southern District of New York investigating the

Apalachin meeting.

6. Will periodically contact G. VERNON BRUMBAUGH,

attorney, 139 North Broadway, for information concerning the

whereabouts of

the subject.

7. Will arrange to obtain a record of long distance

calls made Irom the business telephones of G. VERNON BRUMBAUGH,

Vandike 7790, and Trinity 3838. When the subject's exact

whereabouts are known, this may be discontinued.

Will arrange to obtain a record of long distance

calls from

the telephone of B. J. TORTORICI, Plymouth 1-2646.

9.

Will maintain contact with T-1 (Los Angeles report

dated 4/11/58) to determine if subject's whereabouts become

known to the law firm of Cantillon and Cantillon.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

-62-

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 67

---

## Page 68

LA 92-107

10. Will maintain contact with JAMES P. DONLEY,

Internal Revenue Service, who is conducting an audit and

examination of subject's 1950 - 1958 income tax returns.

11.

Will identify the subscribers to telephone

numbers in the Los Angeles area called by SAM BOMPENSIERO

and sei forth on Pages 20 and 21 of this report.

12.

Will maintain contact with Dr. CLARENCE H.

ALBAUGh, 72? West Seventh Street, who has treated the

subject for eye difficulties.

13. Will maintain contact with ALEXANDER PERINO,

4101 Wilshire Boulevard, a good friend of the subject who

has promised to cooperate in locating him.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 03 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 68

---

## Page 69

LA 92-107

REFERENCES

Report of SA (A) CHARLES E. STINE, dated 2/28/58

at Los Angeles

Teletypes:

Los Angeles to San Diego

Salt Lake City to Miami

Radiograms:

Los Angeles to San Diégo

Letters:

Chicago to Los Angeles

San Diego to Bureau

Airtels to Los Angeles from:

Miami:

New York

Philadelphia

Salt Lake City

San Diego

Airtels from Los Angeles to:

New York

San Diego

Airtels from San Diego to:

Bureau

Washington Field

3/1/58

2/27/58

2/17:3/4/58

3/10/58

3/14/58

3/3,18/58

2/24;3/18/58

3/17/58

2/25,27;3/24/58

2/28,29:3/14,20,21,

24,29/58

3/11,27/58

2/10,25;3/10/50

3/4/58

2/22/58

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 64 -

NW 68262

Docld:32316427 Page 69

---

