Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10161 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
‘asett:NW 68261 Date:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32244103 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10161

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE :

DATE : 08/01/77

PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS :

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION

SWENDSEN, LANCE W.

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION U
RESTRICTIONS 3
CURRENT STATUS P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 3.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
| Docld:32244103 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(_ ) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

© A : on this form must be initialed by the
. or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
Lance W. Svendsen 1/1/79
Employee Social Security Number _| Type of Action

O Appointment

3D Salary Adjustment 4
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change j
C Termination (At close of business on effective date) F
Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and er
close of business. _

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary* i

$13,706.00 i

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee 4

plus the salary received from the employing office. 4
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 1,
1. Gl Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional. \

2. El Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res?5__of £8 Congress. 4

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting ihe employment of
relatives.

Date_

lure of Authorizing Official

VIS WHORES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman,

oe . - . ——
| NW 68261 . : _. -

Docld:32244103 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter () U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

F ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) |

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date 7 \
Lance HW. Svendsen December 1, 1978 }
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action i
; 5 CO Appointment H
XO Salary Adjustment f
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change {
Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date) i
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending ;
close of business. ) i
Speci ate |
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) |
=H 4
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* j
$18,100.00 4

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or Professional.
2.

Congress.
3. © Joint Committee. 1

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) aa

Position Number__

If applicable, Level__.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives. F

(Signature of Authorizing

LOUIS STO
ype oF print nome of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
Ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.
Office of Finance use only: ID -L-_ e+ --------
Office Code.. ae Benefits _____-__-------------
| Monthly Annuity $____-___---00 asof_..- Payroll.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
NW 68261 ~ _
Docld:32244103 Page 4 .



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter © U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, ) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

. fi ji on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Lanee HW. Svendsen October 1, 1978

Employee Social Security Number T Type of Action
1 Appointment .
G salary Adjustment |
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C1 Title Change 1
C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) }

C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending q

Assaszinatioas
close of business

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$13,700.00

* tf emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual solary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing offic

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or 0 Professional.
2.

3. 1 Joint Committee. 3

5 5 a 7 5
Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res? >© of Tat Congress.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

_.\f applicable, Level _Step__

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment -of
relatives. oe ol

October 10 78

eS STOKES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Clossific
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees,-must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

3
:
1
3
i
H
}
i
i
}
i
1
|
i
i

APPROVED: _
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.___.______ Benefits ______----------------
Payroll.

IW 68261 oo
ocid:32244103 Page 5 i



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM i

(Please Use Typewriter: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES .: —.<Any-erasures, corrections, or changes

i i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: -

i
3

thereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date |
Lance W. Svendsen March 1, 1978 4
Employee Social. Security Number Type of Action : Hl

C1 Appointment
|E00¢Solary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
: C Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations CO Leave without pay.(Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

(If. type of. action isan Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

22 600

* If emoloyee is a civil service annvitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office. -

ty

Clerical Asgistant

+ (If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) . '
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. ‘ \
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) Ley

Position Number.

_If applicable, Level_ Step_.

| certify. that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(
relatives. :

i
Chairman

| All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House: Classification Act.and-for Committee em- f
| ployees, except those of.the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee on the- Budget, and the Joint Committees, must \
} be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

| APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: ID oe
Office Code... Benefits____--___-______-_____
Monthly Annuity $_.....-.-00 as of 9 Payroll :

(Revised: Avgust 1, 1977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee .

NW 68261
Docld:32244103 Page 6



eb

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i. i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) :

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Lance #. Svendsen Sacesber 1, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type-of Action
: Cl Appointment
[kB] Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee /Subcommittee Lil Title Change
. 7 C2 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
7 Assassinations Ci Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. ______________--_-----------__} )
Spi Baie

(If type: of action.is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, ‘or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Clerical Assistant $11,060

* If employee is a civil service-annuitant (includes'U,
plus the salary received from the employing offi

S. House of Representatives), the:gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.
2.

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res485__of 354eCongress.
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______.. Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the
relatives. a

moe

All-appointments and-salary adjustments for employees under the House ‘Clossification Act and for Committee: em-
ployees, except those of the’ Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and-the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: .__

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

(Revised: August | 1077)

NW 68261 ——— oe —

Docld:32244103 Page 7

i
:
J

4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM - ’ i

| (Please Use Typewriter i U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES © / (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i on. this form must be initialed by the
-or Ballpoint. Pen) Washington, D.C..20515 authorizing official.) ~

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll, action: |

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) A Effective Date

|
1 |

| |

eu. Syendser , Me? \
Employee Social Security Number . Type of Action 1

Appointment

Employing Office or Committee “< O Salary Adjustment
ASSESST RATIONS

(J Termination (At close of business on effective date)

j :
(If type of action is. an Appointment or Salary Adjustment; complete the following information.) . i

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) » |
__ 1. [1 Standing Committee: Staff-(] Clerical or'[] Professional. | ‘
2. 1 Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 269. “Congress. - eX
3. F Joint Committee. , |
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) G : | iy

Position Number__ If applicable, Level__.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation “of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives. r

1927

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the: House’ Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those. of the Committee ‘on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the-Joint Committees, must ~~
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

louse Administration

| Office of Finance use only:

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee a

NW 68261
Docid:32244103 Page 8



MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
d_Employe
squire thats among other things, the Committee's —
certification include the relationship, if any, of
mployee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father . nephew: brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister - mnother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file Ges» you must notify the Committee's Budget
Uff,

LX 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

{J 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress
(Please specify.)

Signature of Employee

NW 68261 a
Docld:32244103 Page 9

