# docid-32301695

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10279-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-584-3362

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/09/1962

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

ELC, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, ANTI-COMMUNIST

PROPAGANDA, ACA, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination hecords Lollection set o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32301695 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

',

MM 105-1742

CONTENTIA: SECRET

paar

• INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-1 is LUIS SOCARRAS DE

LA CONCHA, 412 N. W. 23rd

Court, Miami, Florida (by request)

MM I-Z is CESAR BARO ESTEVA,

525 N. W. 23rd Court,

(u)

Miami, Florida (by request).

-MM T-3 Is MM 795-S.

MY T-4 AS CAUDENGIO CASTRO LE

SOLOZABAL, PSI.

MM I-S 18 [MM 639-S.]647(21)

(U)

MM I-6 18 EMM 817-S J 4(4)

MM I-7 ISJACK M. BAUMAN,

(и)

CIA, Miami, Florida.

MM T-8 is JOSEPH BASULTO,

918 S. W. 4th Street,

Miami, Florida (by request).

MM T-9 Is MM 776-S.

MM T-10 iS MIGUEL ANTONIO

(e)

SANCHEZ RAMOS, San Juan,

Puerto Rico (ex-PSI of New York

- COVER PAGE -

CONFIDENTIAL

Location

Instant report, Page

Instant report, Page

Instant report, Page

Instant report, Page

9.

Instant report, Page

9.

Instant report, Page

10.

Instant report, Page

11.

Instant report, Page

12.

Instant report, Page

u) 13.

Instant report, Page

113.

NW 68262 Docld:32301695 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFiDENTIAL SECRET

MM 105-1742

Identity

10н 7-21 19/1 [2563 83 183

MM I-12 IS JOSE ARIAS,

Chief of Intelligence,

poc, quest lorida

194 3-13 10 (Nu 635-5.] (4)

Location

Instant report, Page

17.

Instant report, Page

17.

Instant report, Page

25.

•Di=

- COVER PAGE -

CONFIXENTIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32301695 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFigENTAL SECRET

MM 105-1742

formerly a high official of the MRR in Cuba, but now in

the United States does not get along with MRR leadership

In Miami.

On August 30, 1962, HIGINIO "NINO"

119 N. W. 48th Place, Miami, Florida, advised that he 1's

a member of the MRR and a member of the CRC. DIAZ said

the underground movement in Cuba is no longer effective,

cannot operate, and at the prasent time could be considered

non-existent.

DIAZ claimed there are about 100 MRR

in Puerto Rico that are loyal to the leadership of ROBERTO.

ROCA In Puerto Rico and that ROCA looks to DIAZ for leader-

ship and representation to the CRC. DIAZ explained

that

although the membership in Puerto Rico is restless and

anxious for some military action against Cuba, they have

no lumediate military plans because they lack sufficient

money, weapons, and transportation to effect a military

operation.

(U)

Diaz continued in his charges against the

leadership of JOSE IGNACIO LASAGA and CESAR BARO ESTEVA

DIAZ claimed that BARO', 5,%

wants to integrate the Roman Catholic Church with any

new government of Cuba and make the Roman Catholic religion

mandatory instructions for small children in Cuba. DIAZ

maintains that the MRR in Miami is dominated by an elite

few and the leadership is not representative of the

organization. DIAZ claimed there is great dissension,

dissatistaction, and factionalism in the MRR in Miami

because of the leadership of LASAGA and BARO

= 6 .

CONFIDENTIALI

NW 68262 Docld:32301695 Page 4

---

