# docid-32333598

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90107-10181

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-46

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:N

64578 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1963

PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L 66

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS: TT, REFERRED TO USCG

. v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 1

86

---

## Page 2

1-1ha(Rey: 10-16-62)

175.

Casper

Callah

I A

#12

Salms

CiA LOH.

efe

IMITIALS PAS

Wasso Fled per

10/1/84

Radio

DECODED COPY

CONCE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

- APPROPRIY

ATE AGENCIES

WAND FIELD

MADVISTO BI

SLIP (S)

DECLASAURICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

CEL ASIN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 3-19-98

• Teletype

Tele.

Room

Holmes

Gandy

DATE

M28L

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC MIAMI

3-28-63

5:21 AM ESTA 3: 20F98 JEK) JO

3/13/B5

280300

5668

SLD/aM

-COMMANDOS L 66, RA-CUBA,

NEUTRALTY

NM. Classified

12-580

- BY

REBUTELCALLS TODAY.

Parlega

3. 28-823

THIS MORNING ELIAS DO REES, CIA

page + para / Notclassifiable

HE HAD RECEIVED INFO OF A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION BY L 66

per Coast Friard

detter 3-8-89

FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS PROMINENT INDIVIDUAL WHO IS

SPIGSKIRBS

EXILE LEADER, WHO RECEIVED THIS INFO FROM FORMER SHIPMATE

4-187

WHO HAS EXCELLENT CONTACTS ALONG MIAMI WATERFRONT AND

PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH TWO MEMBERS OF L 66 GROUP.

HERE

REES SAID ACCORDING TO HIS SOURCE L 66 LEADERS AT SEA

EXCI

RADIOED THAT THEY HAD ACCOMPLISHED THEIR MISSION PERFECTLY.

CIA SOURCE PREVIOUSLY HAD

REPORTED THAT L 66 WAS PLANNING

"ATTACK AGAINST CUBA.

>(u)

SUBSEQUENTLY REES STATED ADDITIONAL INFO RECEIVED

THAT THIS ACTION UTILIZED ABOUT 100 POUNDS OF NON PLASTICS

"PENTA...

" IN BOW OF BOAT. SOURCE HAD PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

L 66 WAS INTERESTED IN LAUNCHIN

TORPEDO AGAINST A DOCKED

SHIP.X

10₴

[MM 492

) NEPORTED THIS MORNING

REC- 61

THAT RADIO RELOJ,

BROADCAST FROM MIAMI RADIO SRATION WMET, ISSUED NEWSCAS APR/10 1963^

DATELINED NEW YORK THAT GROUP OF EXILES BELONGING TO

COMMANDO L, A SUBSIDIARY OF ARPHA S6, HAD SHOT AND SUNK

Branch tech nito in sue bund

RESENT FOR THE DRECTOR

alicito.

CC fent

If the intelligence contained lin the above message is to be disseminated outside

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 84578 Doeld 12333598-Page-2

His suggested that it be sullably

---

## Page 3

4-41, (Rev. 10-16-§2)

SEC

DECODED COPY

COiX

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

x Teletype

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 280300

A SMALL SHIP OFF PORT OF CAIBARIEN, CUBA. THIS MESSAGE

EMPHASIZED THIS ATTACK WAS NOT IDENTICAL WITH ONE MADE

OFF PORT OF ISABELAADE SAGUA ON NIGHT OF MARCH 18 LAST

BY ALPHA 66.&

AT 3:30 PM TODAY MM

3,5

S ADVISED HE HAD JUST TALKED

TO PEDRO AND MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

WHO REPORTEDLY ARE PREPARING

Sanes hesitatias

A SEPARATE HIT AND RUN RAID ON CUBA. MARCOS TOLD HIM HE

HAD JUST RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL FROM THE CUBAN WHO HAD

CONSTRUCTED A HOMEMADE TORPEDO, WHICH HAD BEEN USED LAST

NIGHT. BY A RAIDING SHIP WHICH SANK A RUSSIAN VESSEL WHILE

IT WAS LOADLAG SUGAR AT CAIBARIEN HARBOR, SANTA CLARA

PROVINCES CUBA. MARCOS TOLD INFORMANT THE TORPEDO CON-

TAINED C-4 EXPLOSIVES AND WEIGHED 100 POUNDS. MARCOS

SAID THIS TORPEDO WAS MADE IN MIAMI BY A CUBAN WHO HÄS

SOME CONNECTIONS WITH CIA. MARCOS DID NOT DISCLOSE

IDENTITY OF THIS CUBAN TO THE INFORMANT.

MARCOS ALSO RELATED THAT A NEWSPAPER MAN,_ ANDREW

GEORGE (OF LIFE MAGAZINE), WAS ON THE RAIDING BOAT

WAS THE ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ATTACK.

AND TOOK PHOTOS OF THE ACTION, MARCOS SAID COMPANIES" C

FOR INFO BUREAU, IT SHOULD BE NOTED CIA HAS IN THE

PAST TRAINED AND UTILIZED MANY CUBAN EXILES FOR RAIDS

INVOLVING USE OF EXPLOSIVES.

CUBAN COLONY COMMANDO L 66 ALLEGEDLY HAD AFFIXED

CONETTUTIAL

SEGRET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-41 (Rer: 10-16-12)

SECR

DECODED COPY

CON

D

Tolson

. Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room .

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

x Teletype

PAGE THREE FROM MIAMI

280300

HIGHLY EXPLOSIVE BOMB OR TORPEDO TO NOSE OF SMALL SPEEDY

CRAFT WHICH WAS CONTROLLED BY REMOTE CONTROL FROM LARGER

SHIP A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY AND WAS BRIVEN AT HIGH

INTO SIDE OF RUSSIAN FREIGHTER NEAR CAIBARIEN.

PSI UNDER DEVELOPMENT LUIS CARLOS PINO COUTO,

FORMER OFFICIAL IN CHARGE OF EMBARKATIONS IN CUBA,

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH VIOLENTLY ANTI CASTRO GROUPS,

BUT WITH WHOM INSUFFICIENT CONTACT HAS BEEN HAD TO ESTAB-

LISH RELIABILITY, CONFIRMED ABOVE AND STATED HE HAD HEARD

COMMANDO L 66 HAD PLANNED TO RIG DYNAMITE TO PROW OF SMALL

BE DRIVEN BY REMOTE CONTROL INTO A RUSSIAN

LÚC I A

FERNANDEZ

/ WIFE OF SANTIAGO JUAN ANTONIO

/ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ, ADVISED HER HUSBAND LEFT ON HIS YACHT,

"THE

LISAN

ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO. IT IS NOTED SANTIAGO

ALVAREZ IS CUBAN MEDICAL DOCTOR AND FORMER SENATOR WHO

y++-9999199

PARTICIPATED IN ILL FATED INVASION OF CUBA, APRIL 1961,

WITH HIS BOAT/ THE ALISAN.

LMM 639 S ADVISED THE ALISAN FREQUENTLY ENTERES AND

DEPARTS FROM U.S. AND ON NUMBEROUS OCCASIONS HAS BEEN ON

MILITARY TYPE EXPEDITIONS IN THE CAY SAL BANK

OPERATING AGAINST THE NORTH SHORE OF CUBA ESSOC

'LUCTA FERNANDEZ

ADVISED THE ALISAN LEFT ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO FOR ANGUILA KEY,

CAY SAL BANK, BAHAMAS, AND IS EXPECTED TO RETURN THIS

WEEK, SHE SAID HER SON, SANTIAGO AVAREZE URA, PRESENTLY

• Y

CCUS

MADE

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 4

---

## Page 5

4-4l (Rev: 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

CA

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen!

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

* Teletype

PAGE FOUR FROM MIAMI

280300

IN U.S. ARMY, FORMERLY PARTICIPATED WITH ALPHA 66 IN

RAID IN OCTOBER LAST. SHE DENIED HER HUSBAND HAS ANY

ACTIVITY WITH L 66 OR ANTONIO CUESTA,

RAMON FONT

ROBERTO VALLE,

ALLOF WHOM ARE ACTIVE LEADERS TIN

AND

W

L 66.

TODAY LT. AARON ROGERS, ASST. INTELLIGENCE OFFICER,

U.S. COAST GUARD, ADVISED THAT ON MARCH 24 LAST THE USCG

OBSERVED THE ALISAN AT AN UNNAMED ISLAND LOCATED BETWEEN

ANGUILA KEY AND DAMASK KEY IN THE CAY SAL GROUB AND

APPROXIMATELY 70 AIR MILES FROM CAIBARIEN, CUBA. EIGHT

MEN, SOME CUBAN IN APPEARANCE, WERE OBSERVED ON BOARD .

THE ALISAN WHICH IS APPROXIMATELY 50 FEET LONG AND OB-

SERVED TO BE EQUIPPED WITH A RADIO AERIAL. THE ALISAN

HAD IN TOW A SMALL TENDER AND WHAT APPEARED TO BE A

SPEED BOAT ABOUT 20 FEET LONG WITH WINDSHIELD, INBOARD

MOTOR AND RADIO EQUIPPED. LETTERS WHICH APPEARED TO BE

F-82 WERE OBSERVED ON THE BOW OF THE ALISAN. THIS IS

NOT BELIEVED TO BE A US REGISTRATION NUMBER. USCG TOOK

ABOUT FOUR AERIAL PHOTOS OF THIS BOAT WHICH SHOW THE EIGHT

MEN ON BOARD.

AT 5:20. PM TODAY, REES, CIA, ADVISED HE HAD JUST

RECEIVED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO FROM SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO RECEIVED INFO

FROM AN INDIVIDUAL IN DIRECT CONTACT WITH ALPHA 66.

ACCORDING TO REES, THE L 66 RAID AGAINST A SOVIET SHIP

LOFF CAIBARIEN WAS ACCOMPLISHED BY FIVE MEN UNDER

CON

N HAL

4

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is sußgested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4-41 pRey., 10÷15-62)

DECO

DED

GOPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy .

Radio

* Teletype

PAGE SIX FROM MIAMI

280300

LITTLE PINE KEY, FLA., WHERE MRS. CHALK STATED AN ANTI

CASTRO INVASION GROUP WAS LOCATED.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THATAONE OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN

THIS ACTION IS KNOWN TO HAVE RETURNED AS YET TO THE

MIAMI AREA AND ABOVE INFO CONTAINS SOME ALLEGATIONS

WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY INCOMPLETE AND SOMEWHAT INCONSISTENT

AT THIS POINT

MM 635 S,

MM. 639 S, MM 776 S AND MM 492 S ARE

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH INDIVIDUALS IN VARIOUS ANTI

CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS

AND EACH HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFO IN THE PAST.

4

• MIAMI INSTITUTING INVESTIGATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH

BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS.

RECEIVED:

6:15 AM

REM

5P-1 GSK RB6

CC MR. SULLIVAN

6

SEDEF

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased inorder to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 6

---

## Page 7

+ ger. 1016-831

DECODED COPY

SECRET

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

I Teletype

URGENY

168510

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC MIAMI

COMMANDOS L 66, RA-CUBA, AM.

TOIA # 90,105

APPEA

CIVILE

E. D. # 12,3

DATE 215/85

INITIALS INS

SIL IS CLA

3-28-63 Letter

Class

Fied per ChA

Mall: 21 AM EST

CF

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLAAAROATION ANDIONA

RELEASE OF CIA INTOCIUAWON

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 3-14-48 m

Wo

280300

REBUTELCALLS TODAY.

THIS MORNING ELIAS D. REES, CIA MIAMI, ADVISED

LASSIFIED

Ni

HE HAD RECEIVED INFO OF A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION BY L 66

FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS PROMINENT INDIVIDUAL WHO IS

M: EXILE LEADER, WHO RECEIVED THIS INFO FROM FORMER SHIPMATE

& WHO HAS EXCELLENT CONTACTS ALONG MIAMI WATERFRONT AND IS

PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH TWO MEMBERS OF L 66 GROUP

REES SAID ACCORDING TO HIS SOURCE L 66 LEADERS AT SEA

RADIOED THAT THEY HAD ACCOMPLISHED THEIR MISSION PERFECTLY.

CIA SOURCE PREVIOUSLY HAD

EPORTED THAT L 66 WAS PLANNING

ATTACK AGAINST CUBA.

SUBSEQUENTLY REES STATED ADDITIONAL INFO RECEIVED WIE

THAT THIS ACTION UTILIZED ABOUT 100 POUNDS OF NON PLASTIE

"PENTA..." IN BOW OF BOAT. SOURCE HAD PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

L 66 WAS INTERESTED IN LAUNCHING TORPEDO AGAINST A DOCKED

492 S

MED

THIS MORNING THAT RADIO RELO

1 C3

BROADCAST FROM MIAMI RADIO STATION WMET,

ISSUED NEWSCAST

DATELINED NEW YORK THAT GROUP OF EXILES BELONGING, TO

COMMANDO L, A SUBSIDIARY OF APPHA 66, HAD SHOT AND SUNK

Bracked into included in male for Diete

3/29/15 18

•reat AG, DAG ISS

SECRET

CHASE.

12-5-80

RXA50

If the intelligence

contained in the above'

message

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau Acry pograph

ems.

e the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 7

---

## Page 8

4-41: (Rev. 10-16-62)

SECRET

DECODED COPY

CONIK

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

& Teletype

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 280300

A SMALL SHIP OFF PORT OF CAIBARIEN, CUBA. THIS MESSAGE

EMPHASIZED THIS ATTACK WAS NOT IDENTICAL WITH ONE MADE

OFF PORT OF ISABELAADE SAGUA ON NIGHT OF MARCH 18 LAST

BY ALPHA 66.C4

AT 3:30 PM TODAY MM 635 S ADVISED HE HAD JUST TALKED

TO PEDRO AND MARCOS DIAZ LANZ WHO REPORTEDLY ARE PREPARING

A SEPARATE HIT AND RUN RAID ON GUBA. MARCOS TOLD HIM HE

HAD JUST RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALI. FROM THE CUBAN WHO HAD

CONSTRUCTED: A HOMEMADE TORPEDO WHICH HAD BEEN USED LAST

NIGHT BY A RAIDING SHIP WHICH SANK A RUSSIAN VESSEL WHILE

IT WAS LOADING SUGAR AT. CAIBARIEN HARBOR, SANTA CLARA

PROVINCE, CUBA .. MARCOS TOLD INFORMANT THE TORPEDO CON-

TAINED C-4 EXPLOSIVES AND WEIGHED 100 POUNDS. MARCOS

SAID THIS TORPEDO WAS MADE IN MIAMI BY A CUBAN WHO HAS

SOME CONNECTIONS WITH CIA. MARCOS DID NOT DISTRE

IDENTITY OF THIS CUBAN TO THE INFORMANT. L

MARCOS ALSO RELATED THAT A NEWSPAPER MAN, ANDREW

ST. GEORGE (OF LIFE MAGAZINE), WAS ON THE RAIDING BOAT

AND TOOK PHOTOS OF THE ACTION. MARCOS SAID COMMANDO L

WAS THE ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ATTACK. R

FOR INFO BUREAU, IT SHOULD BE NOTED CIA HAS IN

THE

PAST TRAINED AND UTILIZED MANY CUBAN EXILES FOR RAIDS

INVOLVING USE OF EXPLOSIVES, & T

MM 776 S ADVISED TODAY ACCORDINE-TO RUMORS IN THE

CUBAN COLONY COMMANDO L 66 ALLEGEDLY HAD AFFIXED

(3) (щ)

SECRET

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 8

---

## Page 9

(Rev.

10-16-62)

DECODED CUPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

SECRET

Caspe

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale .

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy

Radio

La Teletype

PAGE THREE FROM MIAMI

280300

HIGHLY EXPLOSIVE BOMB OR TORPEDO TO NOSE OF SMALL SPEEDY

CRAFT WHICH WAS CONTROLLED BY REMOTE CONTROL FROM LARGER

SHIP A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY AND WAS DRIVEN AT HIGH SPEED

INTO SIDE OF RUSSIAN FREIGHTER NEAR CAIBARIEN.

x(4)

PSI UNDER DEVELOPMENT LUIS CARLOS PINO COUTO,

FORMER OFFICIAL IN CHARGE OF EMBARKATIONS IN CUBA,

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH VIOLENTLY ANTI CASTRO GROUPS,

BUT WITH WHOM INSUFFICIENT CONTACT HAS BEEN HAD TO ESTAB -

LISH RELIABILITY, CONFIRMED ABOVE AND STATED HE HAD HEARD

COMMANDO L 66 HAD PLANNED TO RIG DYNAMITE TO PROW OF SMALL

SPEEDY BOAT TO BE DRIVEN BY REMOTE CONTROL INTO A RUSSIAN

BOAT.

LUCIA FERNANDEZ, WIFE OF SANTIAGO JUAN ANTONIO

ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ, ADVISED HER HUSBAND LEFT ON HIS YACHT,

THE "ALISAN," ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO. IT IS NOTED SANTIAGO

ALVAREZ IS CUBAN MEDICAL DOCTOR AND FORMER SENATOR WHO.

PARTICIPATED IN ILL FATED INVASION OF CUBA, APRIL 1961,

WITH HIS BOAT, THE ALISAN...

IMM 639 S ADVISED THE ALISAN FREQUENTLY ENTERES AND

DEPARTS FROM U.S. AND ON NUMBEROUS OCCASIONS HAS BEEN ON

MILITARY TYPE EXPEDITIONS IN THE CAY SAL

BAHAMAS;

OPERATING AGAINST THE NORTH SHORE OF CUBA:

JCIK FERNANDEZ

ADVISED THE ALISAN LEFT ABOUT 15 DAYS AGO FOR ANGUILA KEY,

CAY SAL BANK, BAHAMAS, AND IS EXPECTED TO RETURN THIS

WEEK. SHE SAID HER SON, SANTIAGO ALVAREZ, JR., PRESENT

DENTAL

SECR

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

INW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 9.

---

## Page 10

10-16-62)

SECRET

DECODED COPY

FONEY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr.

Casper

Callahan=

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen:

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter,

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

PAGE FOUR FROM MIAMI

280300

IN U.S. ARMY, FORMERLY PARTICIPATED WITH ALPHA 66 IN

RAID IN OCTOBER LAST. SHE DENIED HER HUSBAND HAS ANY.

ACTIVITY WITH L 66 OR ANTONIO CUESTA, RAMON FONT AND

ROBERTO VALLE, ALLOF WHOM ARE ACTIVE LEADERS IN L 66.0

TODAY LT. AARON ROGERS, ASST. INTELLIGENCE OFFICER!

U.S. COAST GUARD, ADVISED THAT ON MARCH 24 LAST THE USCG

OBSERVED THE ALISAN AT AN UNNAMED ISLAND LOCATED BETWEEN

ANGUILA KEY AND DAMASK KEY IN THE CAY SAL GROUP AND

APPROXIMATELY 70 AIR MILES FROM CAIBARIEN, CUBA. EIGHT

MEN, SOME CUBAN IN APPEARANCE, WERE OBSERVED ON BOARD

THE ALISAN WHICH IS APPROXIMATELY 50 FEET LONG AND OB-

SERVED TO BE EQUIPPED WITH A RADIO AERIAL. THE ALISAN

HAD IN TOW A SMALL TENDER AND WHAT APPEARED TO BE A

SPEED BOAT ABOUT 20 FEET LONG WITH WINDSHIELD, INBOARD

MOTOR AND RADIO EQUIPPED. LETTERS WHICH APPEARED TO BE

F-82 WERE OBSERVED ON THE BOW OF THE ALISAN. THIS IS.

NOT BELIEVED TO BE A'US REGISTRATION NUMBER. USCG TOOK

ABOUT FOUR AERIAL PHOTOS OF THIS BOAT WHICH SHOW THE EIGHT

MEN ON BOARD.

AT 5:20 PM TODAY, REES, CIA, ADVISED HE HAD JUST.

RECEIVED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO FROM SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO RECEIVED INFO:

FROM AN INDIVIDUAL IN DIRECT CONTACT WITH ALPHA 66.

ACCORDING TO REES, THE L 66 RAID AGAINST A SOVIET SHIP

QFF CALBARIEN WAS ACCOMPLISHED BY FIVE MEN UNDER

-TAL

† the intelligence contained in the above message is

to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 645/8-Doeld:32333598-Page-10

---

## Page 11

DECODE COP

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sulliven

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

Teletype

PAGE SIX FROM MIAMI!

280300

LITTLE PINE KEY, FLA., WHERE MRS.

CHALK STATED AN ANTI

CASTRO INVASION GROUP WAS LOCATED

IT IS TO BE NOTED THATIONE OR

THE PARTICIPANTS-IN

THIS ACTION IS KNOWN TO HAVE RÉTURNED AS YET TO THE

MIAMI AREA AND ABOVE INFO CONTAINS SOME ALLEGATIONS

WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY INCOMPLETE AND SOMEWHAT INCONSISTENT

AT THIS POINT.:

MM 535 S, MM 639 Sa MM 776 S AND MM 492 S ARE

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH INDIVIDUALS IN VARIOUS ANTI.

CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS AND EACH HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFOSIN THE PAST: A(U)

MIAMI INSTITUTING INVESTIGATION IN AGCORDANGE WITH

BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS.

RECEIVED:

6:15 AM

REM

ORIG: MR. BELMONT FOR DIRECIOR

CONSIDE

SEXIET

Ite intelligence contained in the above messäge is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems:

NW 64578 Docld:32333598 Page 11

---

