# docid-32329512

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90086-10169

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-7824-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

12/28/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

59262 Date: 09.22-2022

V9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32329512 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-350 Sub 1

On 12/17/64, STEIN in conversation with LEONARD

STALLMAN, partner in First National Mortgage and stated

sole owner of First National Mortgage in civil court action

before Judge WILLIAM J. CAMPBELL, U,S. District Court,

Northern District of Illinois, tells STALLMAN be cannot

take as much money out of the

business as STEIN does.

STEIN makes it very clear he is in charge and could operate

without STALLMAN.

Advised STALLMAN they are in business

together but STALLMAN is not to question STEIN in any

respect.

On 12/17/64, STEIN takes telephone call for PHIL

ALDERISTO, prominent Chicago hoodlum, and advises ALDERISIO

is out of

town. STEIN later receives call from ALDERISIO

who advises he

will be in the First National Mortgage office

the next day.

• PeI of the Chicago Division, entered FActs (9X2XD)

vicinity

of source and advised STEIN of his association with

the World-Wide Mortgage Company and listed his qualifications

to be emploved by the first National Mortgage Company, STEIN

he would notify him as to the decision regarding

his employment.

It is noted that information furnished to

STEIN regarding World-Wide by PCI

conforms to informa-

tion previously furnished the FBI.

On 12/21/64, PHIL ALDERISIO, STEIN and STALLMAN

engaged in a conversation regarding a proposed loan on a

building in which ALDERISIO has an interest.

ALDERISIO

accuses STEIN of stalling the loan and lying to him. Argument

ensues and ALDERISIO contacts CG 6588-C-TE whose identity is

known to the Bureau and asks whether the building could be

lost. CG 6588-C-TE apparently gives ALDERISIO an affirmative

answer.

It is noted that CG 6588-C-TE has furnished informa-

tion to the effect that ALDERISIO is seeking a 90-day loan on

the property of Griffin Hardware which business and building

is under his control. Griffin Hardware is having financial

difficulties and unless loan is secured, property could be

end or in or war Haoca

lost to foreclosure.

- 2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32329512 Page 2

---

