# docid-34517386

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F.

Lennedy desassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 64954 Date:

11-14-2022

Date

Page

:

11/05/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10001-10288

RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : C6013559P - PAGES 429-431

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

: GODSOE, W. A.

TO : CHIEF, CI DIVISION

TITLE : DISPOSITION FORM

DATE : 01/04/56

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : FRED WILLIAM ONICK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, 3, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/19/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND.

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 5

NOV 1997.

NW 64954

Docld:34517386 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

DISPOSITION FORM

SECURITY

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE.

which p

ture, soured on

10/5/57 do

itell pance

in such reit

DELEASE IN FULL Form-

aily entitled

made

only when

SELEASE IN PARLASSiS

tant Chief o

ne Army

or higher ai

such informl

TOTAL DENIAL sclosure of

a violatian

ONICK, Frederick Wi'FIam, Capto 0-468853 (U)

C6-013559

DATE

COMMENT NO. 1

IB

4 January 1950,

Capt Roederer/ 3767/ds

FILE NO.

SUBJECT

AMGBI-B-5 201

TO

CIDi ABC FROM

Chief, Adjudicatione Board

1. BACKGROUND INFOMATION:

Fred William ONICK, Captain, Infantry, 0-468853, Caucasian, was born on

4 July 1921 at San Francisco, California. SUBJECT attended the High School of

San Francisco, California (1936-40), and San Francisco Junior College

(1940-42). SUBJECT served on active duty with the Army from 20 May 1942 until his

being honorably discharged on 20 April 1946.

SUBJECT again entered the Army on

Extended Active Duty in 1951. On 2 December 1953, as a result of a National Agency

Check, SUBJECT was granted a SECRET clearance as a prerequisite for attendance at

the Army Language School.

SUBJECT is currently assigned to the 6122d Control Grou

California, and is presently employed as Assistant Director of the American Red

Cross, 13th

. Naval District. SUBJECT resides at 3717

26th Place, Seattle, Washing

ton, with his wife, Valentina Onick, nee Belobrodski.

SUBJECT's home of record is

Indicated as 26 Rocklyn Court, Corte Madera, California RECR To pAssio

been initiated on SUBJECT.

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

2. BASIS FOR INVESTIGATION:

AUTH PARA 1-803 DOD 5200.1-R

ACSI, Department of the Army, requested that SUBJECT be interviewed under

oath concerning his association with the Russian American Society (RAS); his know

ledge of his present wife's activities with the Canadian Soviet Friendship Council,

the Canadian Soviet Friendship League, and the Federation of Russian Canadians to

include the extent to which he is influenced by her or her activities; and his

beliefs concerning Communism.

EXCLUDED

FLASCIFIED BY 5668 SLOIASRI

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION:

sonal History, and answered "no" to Items 16 and 18.

to On 9 sestenbor 1953 SUBC comoted i lom 396, statement on Per JEl

On 30 March 1954 SUBJECT

completed DD Form 98, Loyalty Certificate, and entered "none" in the remarks section.

Federal Bureau of Investigation reports (see Tab #1) indicate that

SUBJECT's father was a member of the RAS in 1943 and 1944 and that SUBJCT's present

wife was employed by the Soviet Purchasing Commission in Vancouver, as secretary for

three Soviet officials, one of whom (S. G. Lukianov) has been subsequently positively

identified as a Soviet intelligence agent; and that she was connected with the

Russian Workers and Farmers Club and the Federation of Russian Canadians. Her family

has connections with other Communist controlled organizations.

It was also revealed

that SUBJECT's former wife and her family were connected with

the RAS and the

All-Slavic Council of Northern California. (The RAS has been cited by the Attorney •

General.

The All-Slavic Council of Northern California is not officially

connected with the American Slavie Congress although known Communists are members

of this organizationó)

Sixth Army files revealed the following:

FORM

REPLACES NME FORM 96. 1 OCT 48. WHICH MAY BE USED

COMEDENTAL

16-54801-3

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1952 0 - 986875

grading date cannot be predetermined

NW. 64954

Docld:34517386 Page 2

LAN

56

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURATDEM

which:

MASSIFICANNON dañOr 43, SR 380-320-10,

scribes that the disclosure of the na.

ture,

,ce, or even the existence of counter-

intelligure Information to persons

mentioned

DISPOSITION FORM

in such roporis or i0 oiher persons not norm-

ally entitled to such information may be made

only when sosofically authorized by the Assis-

tant Chief of Staff, G-2, Department of the Army,

or higher authority.

Unauthorized disclosure of

such information will be considered a violation

FILE NO.

SUBJECT

ONICK, Frederick Willian, "Capt.,: 0-468853 (U)

AMGBI-B-5 201

C6-013559

•TO

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON SEP VE

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DOD 5200.1-R

FROM

DATE

COMMENT NO. 1

(Canadian-Soviet Friendship. Council for - which may or may

not be identical with the Canadian Soviet Friendship Council:

Testimony at the Canadian spy ring trial in Ottawa in

April 1946, by Igor Gouzenko, that this organization was

used as a "cover" for the operations of the ring.

Federation of Russian Canadians:

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police have reported that the a

Federation of Russian Canadians is the Communist instrument

in the Russian field in Canada.)

In a sworn statement, on 15 December 1955, SUBJECt stated that during

1942 to 1945 his parents were associated with the RAS in San Francisco but that he

did not believe that they were members of the RAS, and that he had attended some of

the social functions of the RAS in 1945 but was never a member.

d. In the above mentioned statement SUBJECT also stated that his present

wife has never belonged to any organizations, however, she has been associated as

an entertainer at the Polish Hall, Vancouver B. C. SUBJEC went on to state that

he has never heard of the Canadian Soviet Friendship League, the Federation of

Russian Canadians, or the Canadian Soviet Friendship Council. He also stated that

was married there.

Concerning his beliefs on Communism, SUBJECT stated that he has little

knowledge of Communism or the Communistic form of government but that Communism is

not a threat to the American way of life.

SUBJECT also stated that he has no poli-

tical beliefs of affiliations although he has registered Democrat.

I. Attention is invited to Tab #2, a letter from the Federal Bureau of

Investigation wherein it is stated that the Federal Bureau of Investigation is at

present conducting investigations on SUBJECT's father and his present wife, the

results of wich are not included in this file.

4. DISCUSSION:

Information in this case indicates that SUBJECT has associated with members

of the RAS: his parents, former wife, and his former wife's parents. SUBJECT's

present wife is reported to be a member of several Russian Canadian organizations

and SUBJECT has admitted attending social functions at the Polish Hall in Vancouver,

B. Co, with her..

It has not been resolved, in the information thus far presented,

(Cont'd)

10-31801-3

# U..S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

FORM

→1850 REPLACES NME FORM 96, TOCT 40, WHICH MAY BE USED.

Regrading date cannot be predetermined

NW. 64954

Docld:34517386 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DISPOSITION FORM

FILE NO.

TO

AMGBI-B-5 201

SECURITY

SSIFISATIRE dE aaLr 43, SR 380-320-10,

EIDERIAL

which

Iribes that the disclosure

of the na-

sure, soufce, or even the existence of counter.

intelligence information

to persons

mentiened

in such reports or to other persons not norm.

ally entitled to

guch information

may be made

only when specifically authorized by the Assis-

tant Chief of Staff, G-2, Department of the Army,

or higher authority. Unauthorized disclosure of

such information will be considered a violation

SUBECT ONICK, Frederick Willfan, Capt, 0-4,68853 (U)

C6-013559

FROM

DATE

COMMENT NO. 1

the extent to which SUBJECT is influenced by his wife or her activities, or just

exactly what activity she has partaken in.

SUBJECT stated that his wife has been

an entertainer at the Polish Hall and that that is the only connection she has had

with any organization to his knowledge. There is no information in this report to

either prove or disprove SUBJECT's statement.

There is no information connecting

the Polish Hall with the Canadian Soviet Friendship Council or the Federation of

Russian Canadians. A determination cannot be made on the information available at

this time, and further investigation is requested.

5• CONCLUSION:

It is therefore concluded that a determination in this case, under the

provisions of AR 604-10, cannot be made until several points have been resolved.

6. RECOMMENDATION:

It is the recommendation of this office that ASCI, DA, be advised that

further investigation is necessary. It is further recommended that the investiga-

tion of SUBJECT be conducted concurrently with that of his wife, now being conducted

by FBI. It is recommended that the following points be resolved during the inves-

tigation:

What connection is there between the Polish Hall in Vancouver, B. Cos

and the Canadian Soviet Friendship Council or the Federation of Russian Canadians.

*.

What activities has SUBJECT's wife, Valentina, been engaged in

pertaining to her membership in the Canadian Soviet Friendship Council or the

Federation of Russian Canadians.

I feet west

c. To what extent is SUBJECT influenced by his wife, Valentina?

The extent of SUBJECT's activity in the RAS in 1945.

1 Incl

Case File re ONICK

w/Dossier C6-013559

Regrading date cannot be pradeterminos

W.

À.

GODSOE, It Colonel, GS

Chief, Investigations Branch

431

AL

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

SEP 0 8 1994

ON

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200. 1-R

16-54801-3

• U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1952 O - 986875

FORM

DD: F5 96

REPLACES NME FORM 96, 1 OCT 48. WHICH MAY BE USED

NW. 64954

Docld:34517386 Page 4

---

