# docid-32331820

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90100-10038

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

52-72398-77

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12.14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

Cv

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/28/1958

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

JOSPEH RAYMOND MEROLA

THEFT OF 317 WEAPONS, 16 BLANKETS, 1 CARBINE RACK

FROM OHIO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIÁ : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

52-1918

MARONE further stated that he was of the opinion

that should the guns stolen from the Canton Armory be stored

in any nearby place, they could be stored at the Aranalr

Corporation in Wooster, especially if MARTINEZ was involved.

JOSEPH ROMEO, PCI, RD #2, Geneva, Ohio, advised

SA ROBERT H. WYNN on October 22, 1950, that BONIFACIO

MARTINEZ and RUFINO MARTINEZ are both

Puerto Ricans who

spent the entire summer of 1958 at his camp.

He advised

that. these men had been employed at that area as laborers

and departed for San Juan, Puerto Rico, on October 13, 1958,

and October 16, 1958,

respectively.

He stated that these

individuals are not zelated to each other and that neither

of them had any relatives in the Canton, Ohio area.

ROMEO advised that they made the trip from Cleveland to

San Juan via air.

ROMEO further advised

that his telephone at

the above address is HO 6-1960.

WALTER MC CONNELL, Vice-President and Treasurer,

Farmer's Savings and Trust Company, whose identity is to

be protected, advised SA A. JAMES ANDERSON on October 30,

1958, he has an application for a loan on file executed

DY HARRY R. WELCH on March 19, 1958.

At the time he had

been in Mansfield for one week and had

been employed for.

the same period by Universal Refrigeration Company.

wife's name was given as IONA and their prior residence

was shown as 2812 Cleveland Avenue, Canton, Ohio. His

nearest relative was shown as JESSE L. WELCH, RD 1, Bever,

West Virginia.

He reflected on the application he banked

at the Harter

Bank and Trust Company, Canton, Ohio, and the

First National Bank in Mansfield, Ohio.

MC CONNELI noted that on March 19, 1958, the bank

loaned WELCH $900 to be repaid in twelve monthly payments

of $75 each..

The current balance of the account is $325

and payments have been made as agreed.

Collateral for this

loan 1s a 1956 Pontiac four-door Chieftain, SA P756H30166.

A prior lien on the car had been carried by the Aid Investment

Company., Canton, Ohio, which was paid off at the time of

the

above loan.

•7

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 2

---

## Page 3

52-1918

HEW: mak

VIOLA BESSIE, KRAJCIK, with alias Sally (whose

identity must be protected), 1515 Lincoln Way West, Wooster,

Ohio, advised SA HAROLD E. WEIDA on October I6, 1958, she=

is employed by Wooster Rubber Company in the Production

Control Department.

She served in the Womens Army Corps

CUNG:

from 1952 to 1955,

and was in Military Intelligence in

Germany for 22 months.

She is a former girlfriend of LOUIS MARTINEZ, having

broken up with him in September, 1958, after going with him

for three years. She has known for some time that MARTINEZ

has been working on behalf of the Cuban Rebel forces to obtain

arms and equipment for them.

MARTINEZ, who is an attorney, has

told informant that he is legally engaged in this activity

and assists the Rebels in obtaining export licenses for

equipment.

One associate of MARTINEZ iS MARTIN RUTHEORD,

535 West 11lth, New York City, who is an industrial engineer

for some enterprise company.

RUTHFORD's telephone number is

ACademy 2-0872, and informant has determined MARTINEZ' where-

abouts on previous occasions by calling RUTHFORD. RUTHFORD

is a demolition expert, having served in this capacity in

the Armed Forces and was to do a demolition job for Cuban

Rebels on ammunition supply of Battista Government. RUTHFORD

was to receive $375,000 for this job, half of which was to

go to MARTINEZ.

RUTHFORD Is described as male, white,

six. feet

two inches tall, blond hair, fair complexion,

36 years of age,

wears black patch over right eye, has even white teeth,

medium build.

Informant advised that MARTINEZ' activities on

behalf of the Cuban Rebels has only come to her attention

since March or April of this year.

Another associate of MARTINEZ iS PETER LEBLOVICH,

Montclair, New Jersey.

Several months ago LEBLOVICH was supposed

to have given MARTINEZ $30,000 to obtain weapons, which was

lost.

Informant stated that MARTINEZ has blamed her for the

loss

because he was coming to Ohio to see her after receiving

chis money so he gave it to another fellow who was to complete

the transaction for the weapons. Either the money was stolen

, -12.-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CV 52-1918

by this individual or lost in some manner because MARTINEZ

has been held responsible by the Cuban Rebels for its loss,

and they have apparently been pressing him for the money or

the arms. Informant said that in June, July, or August, 1958,

MARTINEZ was in British Honduras checking on the $30,000 for

the man who had it had disappeared either from New York or

washington, D. C.

Informant said on one occasion MARTINEZ

showed her a check for $27,000 which LEBLOVICH was supposed

to have given him.

She said MARTINEZ was prone to boast when

he was doing well but if things were going badly for him he

was not talkative.

Informant continued that in either July or August,

1958, MARTINEZ was in Toronto, Canada, negotiating the

purchase of ten surplus fighter planes.

MARTINEZ had invited

her to meet him in Toronto, which she did. She said she saw

these planes, which were silver in color, at the Municipal

Airport in Toronto.

MARTINEZ had engaged four Panamanian

pilots to fly the planes from Canada;

but although they were

permitted to travel to the United States, the Canadian

Authorities would not allow them to enter Canada to pilot the

planes from Toronto. Informant stated

that it is her under-

standing that the planes are now in New Jersey, possibly around

LEBLOVICH's home, but she was unable to furnish information as

to how they were

piloted there.

While in Ioronto, two men from Milwaukee were there

with MARTINEZ.

One whom she knew as "VIC"

had his wife with

him.

"VIC"

was five feet three inches tall, sixty years of age,

thin build.

The other she knew as MERLIN.

She gathered from

that possibly the surplus planes had been purchased from

She said that "VIC" claimed to have lived in Canada at one

time, formerly served in the Canadian Air Force, and had an

expensive home now in Milwaukee.

Informant stated that in the three years that

she

dated MARTINEZ she frequently went to New York for a weekend

and usually stayed at the Edison Hotel.

In May, 1958, she

went to New York and presumed she would stay at the Edison

Hotel; however,

MARTINEZ obtained a room for her at the

Manhatten Hotel.

She stated that the reason for this was

that MARTINEZ

was meeting with a group of men whom she

assumed to be Cuban Rebels at the Edison Hotel, and for this

-13-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Cy 52-1918

reason he had her stay at the Manhatten so as not to involve

her in his affairs.

She stated that one of the mei! meeting

with MARTINE? had also brought his wife and

she, too, stayed

at the Manhatten Hotel. She did not recall the

name of this

woman, nor did she know the names of any of the men meeting

with MARTINEZ.

Informant stated that whenever she was with MARTINEZ

she was passed off to others in the group as MARTINEZ' secretary

from his law office in Canton.

She said that often the people

who were with MaRtiNez spoke. Spanish and she, not being able

to understand Spanish, did not know what they were discussing.

Informant said MARTINEZ told her that a girl named

"BLANCA," which in Spanish is supposed

to mean the

"fair

one"

was hauling guns from New York to Miami in her suit-

cases and was supposed. to make these trips frequently.

She

said "BLANCA" and JOSE MORALES. were in Canton in April or

May,

1958, and stayed at the Ambassador Motel.

She stated

MORALES is also working for the Cuban Rebels cause. MORALES

and MARTINEZ left the motel while she and "BIANCA"

stayed at

the motel.

Another friend and close associate of MARTINEZ is

NICK TRIKILIS, who is the

owner of the Air and Air Corporation,

Wooster, Ohio.

She said that TRIKILIS is also interested in

che Cuban Rebels cause.

Informant

states that. MARTINEZ spends much of his

time in Miami, Florida, and usually stays at the Ponce DeLeon

Hotel or the

Dupont Plaza.

He has told her that Castro's

Cuban Rebels are paying for his expenses.

Ohio-ELas

Informant stated that FRANCISCeMBARONA ALONSO, Who 1s

there.

ALONSO stayed at the home of PAUL CALVO, who lives on

the northwest corner of Rice and Third Street, N.E.

day after ALONSO was there she drove MARTINEZ to CALVO's home

and he entered the house and returned with a small package

which MARTINEZ carried to his parent's home

about three houses

She later drove MARTINEZ to Cleveland. to catch a plane

for Miami.

Sometime after he had made the trip he told infor-

mant that the package he obtained from CALVO contained a bomb

-14-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Gariadas

CV 52-1918

which he had

taken in his suitcase on the plane for Miami.

Informant stated that MARTINEZ usually took Eastern Airlines

Flight 736 from Cleveland Hopkins Airport to Miami and took

a plane from Canton-Akron, Ohio, Airport if he was flying to

New York.

Informant stated MARTINEZ frequently visited the

Spanish Center in Canton, Ohio, when he was in Canton and once

during the past summer when the Spanish Fiesta was held,

MARtINE? was accompanied by a young boy who made a speech

•in an effort to solicit funds for what he termed a Cuban

Educational Fund for students:

The collection was not fruitful

and MARTINEZ later nade a comment to her that those in

attendance were not interested in helping their own kind.

Informant advised that a man she knew as MIKE

A DUGAN Or

DUNCAN was also in Toronto with MARTINEZ and his group when they

purchased the surplus planes.

She stated this man was from

White Plains, New York, Telephone No. WH 8-9430.

Informant

said MARTINEZ had given MIKE; her telephone number at one time

so that he could contact her for MARTINEZ if necessary.

that MIKE was supposed to buy a surplus Army "Duck,, She

which he was going to convert for his personal use.

Informant said she had

seen scraps of paper belonging

to MARTINEZ in which notations appeared thereon concerning

purchase of B.A.R. surplus rifles. She said that she had also

heard MARTINEZ mention that he was making contacts somewhere

in Brooklyn, New York, for the purchase of B.A.R. rifles for tha

Cuban Rebels:

Informant indicated that MARTINEZ had mentioned that

he intended getting medicinal supplies in New York for

MORALES and was going to pass MORALES off as a medical student.

Informant said she presumed from the conversation that this was

to involve a large shipment of supplies to be destined for the

Cuban Rebels.

Informant stated that MARTINEZ was promoting the

building of a Pan

American Building in Cleveland, Ohio, but

that Cleveland officials were not interested

and he later

tried to get such a building erected in Miami. MARTINEZ advisea

such a structure would promote better harmony among the

American countries.

The backing for such a building was to come

.-15-

; NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 6

---

## Page 7

* CV 52-1918

from insurance companies in South America or the United States.

MARTINEZ made frequent trips to Caracas, Venezuela, and in

July or August, 1950, he called from Miami and said he was

going to go "across the water" which she took to mean Cuba.

She said MARTINEZ has stated

that he met with CASTRO, the head

•of the Cuban Rebens, in the past.

Informant said that although she had no definite

information she would presume that any arms which were trans-

ported

to Miami from New York would end up at the Trade Winds

Hotel, Miami, which is where FRANCISCO BARONA ALONSO stays

while he is in Miami. It is informant's opinion that ALONSO

spends most of his time in Florida.

Informant said MARTINEZ has an associate in

Westchester, New York, by the name of TOATER (Phonetic).

Informant stated MARTINEZ. owes her $340, which she

has loaned him over a period of time and she has been seeking

eat see one

repayment of this debt since she broke up with MARTINEZ.

She said MARTINEZ called on September 9, 1958, and

said he was going to up-state New York and then to Miami

and would be in Canton on Monday or Tuesday, October 13 or

14, 1958, and he did not want her to tell anyone where he was

going to

be..

Informant stated that MARTINEZ was explicit in

telling her that he was going to be in up-state New York and

then Miami, then Canton, and she did not know why he made such

a point of

making this

clear to her.

At this time MARTINEZ

also asked her to obtain twenty dollars which a friend owed.

him and send it by Money Order to him at the Main Office of

Western Union, New York, which she did. He promised to send

informant the $340 he owed her on October 11, 1958, but to

date it has not been received.

Informant said that she had no definite information

that MARTINEZ was responsible for the

• theft of instant

weapons at the Canton Armory but when she read it in the news-

paper she immediately thought that he would be the logical

person to dispose of such a quantity of arms and that he

possibly had done so to make up

• for. the weapons he failed to

get when he lost the $30,000 given him by the Cuban Rebels for

this purpose.

-16-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CV 52-1918

Informant stated MARTINEZ flew everywhere he went,

does not own a car but on September 11, 1958, when he visited

her in Canton he was driving a 1957 two-tone green Cadillac,

bearing Ohio License N224T, which he had borrowed from a

friend in Canton.

Informant said that in early September, 1958, she

received a telephone call from two individuals identifying

themselves as THOMPSON and MARDIGO and they were interested

She refused to give

black Packard bearing Ohio license, number unobserved, who

again asked her about 'MARTINEZ' whereabouts and she refused

to give them any information.

She said she was offered $5,000

for this information and the

men stated they had seen her in

MARTINEZ' company the week end before. in New York, which in

forant stated was true. When she refused to tell them

anyching they slapped her around before letting her go.

she later told MARTINEZ of this he asked her why she did not

report it to the police, to which she replied if she had done

so she would have had

to tell

them all she knew about him.

Informant said MARTINEZ has access to a private

plane because he flew from Miami to New York on the occasion

that he went to Toronto. While in Toronto they stayed at the

Conroy Hotel registered under the names SALLY KRAJCIK and

LOUIS MARTINEZ. • She stated MARTINEZ has always used his own

at various hotels under his own name.

Informant said that on the week end of July 25, 1958,

a conference was held in Room 1313 of the Manhattan Hotel,

New York, with MARTINEZ and Cuban Rebels in attendance and

it was shortly after this that RUTHFORD was to go to Cuba to

pull a demolition job of President BATTISTA's ammunition. She

did not know any of those in attendance at the meeting since

she was not there.

Informant said she once tried to reach MARTINEZ at

the Ponce de Leon Hotel in Miami and was given the number

Franklin 32988, where he could be reached in Miami and when

she called this number MARTINEZ answered. On another occasion

when she called this number the person answering said it was

the Bel Air Corporation and MARTINEZ was unknown there.

-17-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Cv

52-1918

On October 21, 1958, Mrs. SALLY KRAJCIK, Wooster,

Ohio, advised SA JAMES E. GILLEY that she had no additional

information regarding MARTINEZ being involved, except she

was "more afraid" since the arrest of MARTINEZ by the New York

Police Department.

She advised that at the time she observed

MARTINEZ in a green panel truck he was staying with someone

in ashlana, unlo, however, she did not know the individual.

She also stated that she had learned that MARTINEZ stayed

with

NICK TRIKILIS when he was in trouble.

She also related that she knew no one with a green.

Ford or white Cadillac.

However, a few hours later, Miss

KRAJCIK telephoned SA GILLEY and

advised the individuals who

owned the following cars were friends of MARTINEZ:

1955 two-tone green Mercury, US 641

1952 blue Buick, VA 959

1951 green Ford, BC 229.

KRAJCIK indicated that the above cars were in Wooster

on the night of October 21, 1950, and the men were having

coffee together in a cafe.

She also advised that TRIKILIS drove

a 1955 Pontiac,..

tan, with Ohio License US 7541.

Deputy Sheriff C. C. SHUEY, Sheriff's Office, Stark

County, Canton, advised the licenses were registered as follows:

Ohio:

US 041 to LESTERALITWILLER, 904 Grarit, Wooster,! for

a 1954 Kaiser.

US 7541 to NICK TRIKILIS, 52 North Columbus, Wooster,

for a 1955 Pontiac.

VA 959 to DANGLARK, 500 Madison Street, wooster, Ohio

for a 1950 Buick.

BC 229 to JOHNSOLONEY, 14708 Otinoco, East Cleveland,..

Ohio, for a 1955 Chevrolet.

On October 22, 1958, Mrs. SALLY KRAJCIK, Wooster,

Ohio, advised SA GILLEY that MARTINEZ sometimes calls her at

AN 3-1791 (Wooster) on Wednesday nights, however, if the call

is collect it is charged to her home telephone.

-18-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CV 52-1918

She also advised that someone named "DOC" in Miami,

Florida, has something to to with arms shipments to the Cubans.

She stated she had no additional information in this regard.

On October 20, 1950, SALLY KRAJCIK, Wooster,

telephoned SA GILLEY and related she had contacted MARTIN

RUTHFORD in New York City (by telephone) on October 25, 1958,

and requested information on MARTINEZ.. RUTHFORD asked

her to

contact MARTINEZ' family in Canton and tell them not to worry.

In addition, she was to have some member of the family put up

bond for MARTINEZ. She stated that JOHN MARTINEZ planned to

go to New York with the money for the bond.

The next day, she advised, MARTINEZ contacted her by

telephone and said he was already released and the State of

New York had dropped all charges against him. He stated he

planned to return on Wednesday (10/23/58) and wanted her to

meet him at the airport, which she believed to be the Cleveland

KRAJIK they may get married.

In addition, TOM MUSAT contacted her on October 26,

1958, and

said the FBI had interviewed him and she could

expect cällers in the near future. MUSAT told KRAJIK to tell

the FBI that she was a girlfriend

. of MARTINEZ and little if

anything else regarding him (MARTINEZ). She stated she did not

think MUSAT had anything to do with the robbery, but he was a

MUSAT also said

he heard from

the Canton Police.

On 10/29/58 SALLY KRAJCIY., Wooster, advised

SA GILLEY by telephone that she planned to "pick up" MARTINEZ

at the Cleveland airport at 9:50 PM this date. She was of the

opinion that he was coming in from New York and planned to

stay at her home in Wooster until after the elsction.

On 10/24/58 the New York Office advised that the

New York City Police Department was making available for review

the effects of LOUIS MARTINEZ and as a result three telegrams

were located which were in the possession of MARTINEZ on

10/18/58.

Two of these telegrains were apparently from

SALLY KRAJCIK; the other to MARTINEZ was signed by THOMPSON

and referred to the treatment given to the girl as prescribed.

by Canton resident was not to his approval.

-19-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 10

---

## Page 11

•CV 52-1918

On November 12, 1958, SALLY KRAJCIK advised

SA HAROLD E. WEIDA that LOUIS MARTINEZ Stayed at her home in

Wooster several days after his arrival on 10/29/58 at New York.

MARTINEZ told KRAJCIK that he knew who took the guns from che

Canton Armory and that the individual had already received the

money for the job. KRAJCIK said on this occasion that the

telegrams that were found in MARTINEZ' possession in New York

at the time of his arrest by the New York City Police Department

were of a personal nature and had no connection with instant

theft.

She was unable to explain

the contents of the telegram

signed THOMPSON except that it referred to her encounter with

individuals she believed to be THOMPSON and MARDIGO at Wooster

when she was stopped in her automobile and

slapped around"

by these individual for her failure to reveal the whereabouts

Of LOUIS MARTINEZ.

KRAJCIK stated that she had telephonically contacted

MARTIN RUTHFORD on 11/9/58 and RUTHFORD informed her that

MARTINEZ had. "blown the whistle" oh him and as a result the

FBI had questioned him.

RUTHFORD indicated he had had nor

recent contact with MARTINEZ and if MARTINEZ did not soon call

him he was going to "sing like a canary."

KRAJCIK talked to RUTHFORD again on November 10,

1958, and stated that RUTHFORD's demeanor had changed towards'

MARTINEZ, which lead her to believed he had talked to MARTINEZ

and been reassured by MARTINEZ that he had told nothing to the

The former stated that it was possible that RUTHFORD

MARTINEZ may suspect that the information furnished to the

FBI came from her, as she would be the only logical source.

KRAJCIK was shown photographs of STUART SUTOR and

VICTOR CARLUCCI, neither one of whom she could identify. She

further added that she knows of no associates of MARTINEZ

in the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, area.

MARTINEZ, according to KRAJCIK, hac access to a

private plane since

she recalled that on his trip to Toronto

in July or August, 1958, he mentioned that he had flown from

Miami to New York in a private plane.

KRAJCIK drove MARTINEZ

to Cleveland Hopkins Airport on November 10, 1958, and he

departed for New York City, where he was to

appear to answer

charges for kidnapping.

KRAJCIK stated that MARTINEZ has since

called her from Miami.

-20 -

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CV

52-1918

KRAJCIK stated that MARTINEZ has never been in

military service due to the fact that his left side is

paralyzed and has been from birth and stated he has purchased

no new Cadillac.

MARTINEZ usea informant's car while in

Canton and Wooster In the past week and had little or no

money in his possession.

In his recent visit MARTINEZ mentioned the possibility.

of traveling to the West Coast, but did not indicate the

purpose of such a trip.

KRAJCIK stated the only acquaintance MARTINEZ has

on the West Coast is BOBBY, ROSETTI, Of San Bernardino,

California.

with Do. PESSATAN Eaten at stated that on tin toronto

trip when difficulty was encountered by MARTINEZ and his

group in gaining the admission for Panamanian pilots into

Canada to transport the planes the group mentioned getting

• in

touch with a "Dock" fron Maint, who would come to dock"orie

if necessary to straighten out the trouble.

seemed quite important to the group and there is a possibility

that he was called while they were in Toronto.

Informant stated that on MARTINEZ' recenttrip she

found two post cards in his topcoat, one with the name

SERGIORAPABICIA, 103 West 80th, Apartment Two, New York,

Telephone TR 3-7914, and the other bearing the notation

Organization Autintico, 2390 Broadway, New Yorl,

Telephone

No. TR 4-9927. She also found stationery from the Dixie and

Holland Hotels in New York.

On November 13, 1958, KRAJCIK advised that she

recalled on the recent visit of MARTINEZ to Canton he was

talking to TOM MUSAT at the Spanish-American Center and

discussing the questioning of MARTINEZ and MUSAT by the FBI.

She said MARTINEZ was concerned if whether the FBI had asked

about a location in Cleveland, but she could not recall the

exact name of this place. She said it had the name house in

1 leveland,

1ti,

either Harmony House, Melody House, or some similar name,

and she gathered from the name that it had something to do

with architecture. She stated she had no knowledge of what

-21-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 12

---

## Page 13

CV 52-1918

connection MARTINEZ may have with such an establishment or

why he should be so concerned about it.

Informant continued that she had learned from

MARTINEZ some time ago that a plane had been wrecked, she

believed in Florida, on which JOE MORALESwas injured. She

stated that MOFALESwas supposed to have suffered a broken

arm or leg in this crash.

She did not know who was piloting

this plane, but gathered

it was a private plane.

KRAJCIK stated that since MARTINEZ' departure from

Wooster on November 10, 1958, she had learned from ECK

MARONE, who operates

the Satellite Club in Wooster, that Ohio

MARTINEZ had called and requested Some money and that MARONE

had sent him twenty dollars.

MARTINEZ was supposed to have beer.

In New York on November 13, 1958, and was to proceed to

Washington, D. C., on that date for what reason informant dia

not know.

Mr. HAL BOYIAN (Protect Identity), Manager,

Auditorium, North Market Avenue, Canton, advised SA JAMES E.

GILLEY on 10/21/58 that he had read about the MARTINEZ thing

in the paper and recalled that MARTINEZ was the campaign

manager for Mayor BABCOCK (Canton) when he was elected.

During the election, MARTINEZ took $3,300 campaign funds and

left town.

No effort was made to prefer charges since the

mayor did not want this type of publicity.

He also advised that WILSON J. MYERS, Canton City

Service Director, made a trip to New York on 10/21/58 to secure

some monetary figures for the new city hall, and no such

trip was needed.

He advised he did not know if this had any

connection with

MARTINEZ or not.

On 10/24/58 CV 411-C advised SA W. FICHARD GREGOR

that he had determined that instant theft was believed

"fingered" by a Canton attorney who was recently arrested in

New York on a kidnapping charge. Informant stated that Canton

attorney had five or six Cubans in Canton prior to the theft.

The Cubans lived in different parts of town and on occasions

met in the evening at an unknown beer tavern in Cinton.

-22 -

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 13

---

## Page 14

CV 52-1918

Informant added he had confidential information that

another Canton attorney named "JENETTA" (Phonetic) had been

approached regarding

knowledge of the possible source or guns

for Cuba.

"JENNETTA" supposedly has a brother who runs a

gambling place in or near Canton.

Informant stated this

information would have to be handled discreetly to avoid

disclosure of the source of this information.

The following informants of the Cleveland Office were

contacted with negative results:

CV 379-0 - 11/12/58 by SA RICHARD S. BYER.

WILLIAM THOMAS BLOSSOM, PCI - 10/31/58 by SA FOREST .

SQUIRE

CV 308-0-11/4/58 by SA DAVID A. SHAPIRO

CV 304-0 - 11/4/58 by SA SHAPIRO

PCI LAWRENCE BERK - 11/4/58 - SA SHAPIRO

PCI CHESTER FREDERICY - 10/20 and 30/58 - SA JAMES K.

COOPER

CV 383-0 - 10/31/58 - SA ERNEST J. KIRSTEIN, Jr.

PCI BENJAMIN HAYNES - 10/9 and 29/58 - SA STANLEY E:

PETERSON

CV 404-0-10/24/58 - SAW. RICHARD GRECOR

PCI ROBERT MILLER - 10/23/58 - SA JAMES E. GILLEY

PCI FRANK DOMONIC NERONE - 10/23/58 - SA KIRSTEIN

PCI STAN ENGLISH - 10/24/58 - SA FRANK T. COUGHLIN, Jr.

CV 252-C - 10/20/58 - SA COUGHLIN

CV 429-6 - 10/21/58 SA THOMAS R. MICHALSKI

PCI HERMAN HANDLOVSKY - 10/21/58 - SA STANLEY S. PECK.

-23-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 14

---

## Page 15

cv

52-1918

PCI EDDIE BOGAN - 10/21/58 - SA PECK

CV 301-C - 10/15 and 29/58 - SA ROBERT H. WYNN

PCI JAMES MICHAEL BRIGOTTI - 11/14/58. - SA JOHN J.

MURRAY

CV 424-0 - 11/18/58 - SA A. JAMES ANDERSON, Jr.

CV 369-0 - 11/18/58 - SA ANDERSON

PCI ANN MEOLA - 11/16/58 - SA HAROLD E. WEIDA

LEADS

CHARIOTTE, LOS ANGELES, PHILADELPHIA, PHOENIX,

AND SAN JUAN DIVISIONS

(INFORMATION)

Information copies of this report have been designated

for Charlotte, dos Angeles, Philadelphia, Phoenix, and SanJuan

in view of investigative activity in those divisions.

All offices conducting investigation in this case

are requested to submit results in report form.

Leads in this

case

are being set out on a current basis as they develop in

this investigation.

CINCINNATI DIVISION

AT CINCINNATI, OHIO

Will determine subscriber to MA 1-8300 and identify

From Onto National Guard Headquarters, Cant on.

telephonically contacted at that number on 9/15/58

Unless other-

wise deemed unadvisable, will interview HILTOn regarding his

knowledge of this theft.

AT STEUBENVILLE, OHIO

Will identify subscriber to the following telephone

and if deemed advisable interview re knowledge of theft:

-24-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820. Page 15

---

## Page 16

CV

52-1918

It is noted informant, SALLY KRAJCIK, contacted

LOUIS MARTINEZ at this telephone on one occasion.

MILWAUKEE OFFICE

AT MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

Will conduct investigation set out in Cleveland airtel

to Bureau 10/20/58.

NORFOLK DIVISION

AT NORFOLK, VIRGINIA

Will attempt to locate JOHN VAN FOSSEN through local

sources of information and thereafter interview re his

association with LOUIS MARTINEZ and obtain any information he

has re instant theft.

NEWARK DIVISION

AT FARMINGDALE, NEW JERSEY

Will reinterview SIDNEY NEUBAUER, Autorney, and

ascertain all information in his possession re LOUIS MARTINEZ

and PETER LEBLOVICH and what connection they have with instant

theft.

AT MONTCLAIR, NEW JERSEY

Will interview PETER LEBLOVICH re his association

with LOUIS MARTINEZ and attempt to develop the extent of

MARTINEZ' activities for the Cuban Rebels anc particularly

his endeavors on their behalf to obtain arms

and

Possible

connection with instant theft.

-26-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 16

---

## Page 17

CV

52-1918

• 7/19/58, No. 457R from Headquarters Battery,

Ohio National Guard, Canton Armory.

8/14/58 - No. 221F2, from Battery A, Ohio National

Guard.

7/20/58 - No. 457R, Headquarters Battery,

Ohio

National Guard, Canton.

AT' NEW PHILADELPHIA, OHIO

Will conduct similar investigation requested above:

8/21/58, No. 57541 from Headquarters, Ohio National

Guard, Canton.

AT NILES, OHIO

Will conduet similar investigation requested above:

9/5/58 - 0L 2-9951, from Battery A, Ohio National

Guard, Canton.

AT WOOSTER, OHIO

Will interview LESTER LITWILLE?, 90. Hract and DON CLAR

500 Madison Street, reported

to be close friends of LouIs

MARTINEZ, for information re associates of MARTINEZ and his

possible implication in instant theft.

AT YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO

Will recontact CV 411-C for any aditional information

he has re instant theft.

Will determine subscriber to following telephone

number and if deemed advisable interview for information con-

cerning instant case:

6/26/58 - RI 43820 from Battery A, Ohio National Guara,

Canton.

-34-

NW 64578 Docld:32331820 Page 17

---

