# docid-34440772

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Diate: 11-08-2021

Date :

Page

10/16/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10013-10328

RECORDS SERIES :

FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: C8005823W - PAGES 2406 - 2413

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE : CONTACT REPORT

DATE

: 12/06/68

PAGES

8

SUBJECTS

: [ RESTRICTED ]

PERSONAL MEETING WITH

J-315

• DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 1

---

## Page 2

S

SUBJECT: Personal Meeting with J-315

DATE: 6 December 1968

CR NO: 1-B-GR-204-68

PROJECT: QUASHED

LUES) GIRCUASTANEES OR CONTACT:

ao C/0 met subject at 1330 hours, 3: December 1968, for the purpose of

terminating the source. Most of the meeting consisted of having lunch

while the C/O permitted the source to relieve his desire to talk about

the previous two months' frustrations, uncertainties and fear experienced

by the source and his wife, 3-315/11, as a result of the imprisorment of

J-315/12 and J-315/13.

bo The source had been asking repeatedly during this time for personal

meetings with the C/O. These requests were turned down for reasons of

security until it was decided to hold the termination meeting. The C/O

decided to let the source unburden his desire to talk to the C/0 and

thus relieve his frustrations

and get him in a good frame of mind.

c. C/O met the subject at the New England Oyster House, 125th Street and

Biscayne Blvd. The C/O took an indirect route to the meeting site. After

lunch the C/0 and the source sat in the subject's vehicle, 1969 Chevrolet

station wagon, Florida Idcense Plate 168321, and signed the necessary

receipts and documents incident to the termination. The source then drove

off. The C/0 then entered his cat, operational vehicle Chevy II, Florida

License IE-7522, and drove to the shopping plaza at

Ith Avenue and lllth St.

where he called his office, advised them of his successful and safe termina-

tion, then took a deliberate and circuitous route to his home in Hollywood.

2406

I 'AEGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

CONTROLLED

DISSEMINATION

"ON OCT 18:1994 nd at Lives

I BY COR USANACOM FOUPO

AUTH PARA: 03 DOD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 2

---

## Page 3

The meeting ended at 1625 hours and no surveillance afterwards was detected.

Lunch was consumed in virtual isoltation, for there were no other diners

within 20 feet.

2(X8) OPERATIONAI DISCUSSIONS:

a. The C/O listened to the source's conversation during lunch and

obtained the news that J-315/12 was no longer in prison in the G-2 offices,

but had been transferred to a large holding camp at In Cabana Prison as

part of a group of several hundred other professional men such as doctors,

lawyers, etc. He had been assigned duties at the dispensary in his capa-

city as a surgeon and doctor, and he was in good health and was allowed

violtors once a week. His wife, j-315/13, had been transferred also to a

woman's rehabilitation center at an unknown location on the outskirts of

Havana, She has also roceived good treatment, performs no duties, and 1s

gaining weight. She lost while being questioned by the G-2. Both are

being well treated, have been given pernission to urite to relatives in

the U.S., and have already done so.

bo J-315 said that he and his wife were very relieved at the above

turn of events. Both believe that this indicates that their appeals through

the Vatican (Jesuits) and the medical comminity were instrumental in this

decision not to execute the two.

c. J-315 believes that his father-in-law, J-315/12, blamed any wrong-

doing he was accused of by the GOC on him, J-315. J-315 believes that

J-315/12 probably admitted to some activity against the GOC, was probably

repentant, and accepted the usual offer of rehabilitation for himselfvand

his wife. J-315 seemed quite happy that his efforts hafxchunior.i.

2407

2

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

-ON OCT 1 8 1994

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 3

---

## Page 4

prisoners. He feels that by permitting the present situation to continue

a few months, thus allowing a "cooling off period", the situation may

become favorable for further appeals of a humanitarian nature, requesting

the prisoners' pardon and possible ext from Cuba. The C/0, of course,

agreed that the change of prison, assigment to duty and permission to

write, certainly indicated that the COC was not considering violent action,

and expressed his own and the organization's gratification at this good

neve. J-315 stated that when he felt the cooling off period had passed,

he had some more "aces" to play, and asked the C/O's opindon.

is

do J-315 stated that a friend of his, one Miguel FIGUERDA, presently

a professor at the University of Puerto Rico, and also the Cuban First

Secretary in Rome during the beginning of World War II. At that time Cuba

and Italy severed relations. As a result, FIGUERDA was interned in, or

given refuge in Vatican City during the war years. FIGUEROA became a

personal friend of the present Pope, to the extent that the Pope became

God Father to one of the FIGUEROA children born in Italy. The two have

remained friends throughout the years. J-315 plans to ask one Juan Antonio

RUBIO Padilla, a friend of J-315 and relative of J-315/73, to visit the

Pope the summer of 1969 and convey FIGUEROA's personal request that the

anal

Pope contact the GOC and personally intercede for a possible pardon in

exile of the prisoners. RUBIO is one of the prominent leaders of Catholocism

in the world today and intimate friend of si

FNU Fernandez, the Arch Bishop

of Cordoba in Spain. J-315 believes such an appeal has an excellent chance

of success. The C/0 agreed that this was a worthy effort and empressed

his wish that it succeed.

2408

3

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL.

*CATION SCHEDULE

REGRAP

ASSIFICI

10686 cy

ON

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

alerted that he was to transfer out of the arga as happened once before

during their association when Marlo (P) had replaced him as J-315's

supervisor.

f. J-315 did not react in an adverse manner to the notice of termina-

tion. He agreed that cessation of operations was very wise and that he

would keep the organization informed by mail. He did, though, earnestly

ask that although he was aware that operations were ended, that contact

with the

organization be continued through the mail channel so that he

could keep the organization informed in the future. He also asked that,

if possible, he be permitted a telephone number to call either in Miami.

or in Washington, or elsewhere, there he could contact the organization

in the case of an emergency or when he had information on the prisoners

that needed to be delivered in a hurry. The C/O stated' that he would

relay his request to his superiors and advise him via telephone to a

pay telephone booth as had been done during the past three monthe. Ja315

wished the C/O well in his new assignment and hoped that they see each

other some day again. He höpedithat if he were ever involved in other

work for the organization that he be placed in contact with a nature indivi-

dual whom he could talk to with cunfidence that he was dealing with an

experienced man, for although Mario was a fine individual, obvioualy dedicated

and sincere, he had found that he could not communicate his beliefs and ideas

as well as he could with the present 6/0. C/D said that Mario had been

indeed an excellent individual to works with, but that sometimes old battle-

weary roosters seen to work well together.

5

A10

257

Car. 100M GD92 AT

REGRADED UNCLASSIENED

ON OCT 1 8 1994

BY CDR USAINSCOM FO/PO

AUTH PARA 1:603 DoB: 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CR

J-315 said he belteved that the GOC did not have much proof of

any serious crime against the prisoners or they would have executed them.

The fact that J-315/12'a sister, Chucha, and her husband had been picked

up and imprisoned in mid-November for questioning indicated that the GOC

investigation of J-315/12's activities had not produced too much. They

because

apprahended Chucha probably einst she was his secretary at his clinic.

The G/0 agreed that, ugly were progressing better that hoped and that

the future seemsd setter. At this time the c/o brought up the mubject

of the need for termination of operations, and it dovetailed beautifully,

for J-315 had just said that he was glad that he had not been involved in

J-315/23's overt political nachinationg for the last four to five months.

The C/O told the subject that he had been directed to terminate the opera-

tions Involving J-315 and the entire operation in order to safeguard the

lives of the prisoners. Any continuance of intelligence operations

against the GOC would jeopardize their lives 1f detected. However, the

C/O desired that even though operations were terminated that J-315 monitor

the status of

the prisoners and keep the C/l's organization inforned. In

order to do this, the C/0 was providing J-315 with a P. O. Box in the

Washington, D.Go, area so that he could mail periodical information con-

cerning the prisoners. The C/0 stated that he was also providing J-315

with an allowance for six months' expenses so that 3-315 would not bear the

cost of monitoring the status of the prisoners alone. The C/0 said that he

had recommended the sun of $125.00 per month which had been approved by

has superiors. Additionally, he had recommended that J-315 be given two

months' salary as severance pay. C/O continued, saying that he had been

EXCLUDED FROM GENTRAI

24094

REGRADED UNCLASCISIEDULE

1994

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOU/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 6

---

## Page 7

ECRE

Go J-315 earnestly asked that the organisation consider assisting

hin to obtain a pernit to carry a weapon in Morida. He stated he had

obtained a permit in Puerto Rico, but that he had no contacts in Miami

to assist him as he had in Puerto Rico. He was

afraid that he might be

the object of an attempt by the GOC to assassinate him for his involve-

mont with J-315/12. He cited the attempt on ex-Castro CAPT Oton PALAU

who was shot 6 or 7 times on 16 November, and 1s in critical condition in

Miani, J-315 believes that he is probably on their lift for assaseination

and 1s ready to defend himself if necessary. He expressed deep concern

of his being aboard one of the hi-jacked planes because of his weekly

round-trip between Mani and San Juan, Puerto Rico, He added that if an

attempt 1s ever made to hi-jack a plane he is aboard, he would resist the

hi-jackers, for he fears if he lands in Havana, he will be sumarily shot.

He does not plan to carry a pistol aboard the planes, for he is aware that

he may be subject to search at any time. At present he fakes being lame

and carries a care aboard, wishfully hoping that he could use that to over-

power any possible hi-jacker. The C/O replied that he would check this

request out, obtain an answer, whether favorable of unfavorable, and inform

the source of whatever decision was reached.

COMMUNICATIONS:

a. The source was given P. 0. Box 9153, Alexandria, Virginia, zip code

22304, under the name of Joseph Conley, for his use to keep the organization

advised of the prisoners' atatus.

bo C/D established the following böna fides for possible future contact

with J-315. Person contacting subject will say "he is a friend of Rogelio

2411

6

RECRADED UNGLASSIFIED

ON OCT 1 8 19947TON SCHEDULE

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CRE

GONZALEZ and would like to get together and have some oysters". At meeting

they will match to halves of a Cuban five peso noto (see Incl (1).

40301

FINANCES AND LOGISTICS:

The source was given the following suns as termination payment and

expenses:

Salary for November 1968

Salary for December 1968 audJanuary 1969,

Expenses, December 1968 through May 1968 at

$125.00 per month

$ 300.00

600.00

750.00

SubTotal

51,650.00

Lunch and refreshments during the termination meeting

23.91

Total

$1,663.91

NOTE: C/0 attempted to pay the subject for his expenses for telephone calls

outstanding for November 1968 and had directed the source to attempt to

obtain his receipts from the Bell Telephone Company. The source was unable

to obtain them for the telephone company computer had not produced the

bills. C/0 made arrangements with the source to maintain telephone contact

for the nest two or three weeks until the bills are sent. At that time the

source will mail the C/0 a receipt, using the present Miant P. O. Box, and

the C/O will mail the source the necessary sum.

5.0g)

COMMENTS:

C/o recommends that consideration be given to a telephone, possibly

in Puerto Rico, that the source may call in a bona fide emergeney. One

other consideration might be that the source call former DAC Luis Rodriguez,

7

422 241213

EZGEDED FROM GENTRAT

MESSESS FIGALION SOROUIRE.

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON OCT 1 8 1994

BY COR USAINSCOM FO!/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

a member of the 1llth MI Group, Miami. He is personally knot to the

source as having been involved in Intelligence operations in the Miami

area. The C/0 is

researching lllth's reaction to the establishment of

Mr. Rodrigues as a contact for subject for emergency use and will include

that result as part of his termination report and sunmary of the imprison-

ment and status of the prisoners. C/0 believes that we should monitor

their status in the future and make every effort to insure that J-315 and

his fanily or J-315/23 take no steps to embarrass the U.S. by any accusa-

tions and/or publicity. In order to do this it may become necessary in

the future to have someone contact J-315 or his wife in order to permit

tham to express their concern, fears of sorrow. This will act as a safety

• valve and will enable U.S. to have advance notice of any proposed acts on

their part which may be injurious to the U.s.A.

1 Incl

Envelope containing

bona fide (1 only to Hqs)

FRANK C. ALATORRE

Case Officer

2413

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON OCT 1 8 1994

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-503 DOD 5200.1-R

NW 64954 Docld:34440772 Page 9

---

