# docid-32330623

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90091-10054

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-2028-4

Released under the John F. Kenned!

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64576 Date: 12:14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OC

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/29/1968

3

JOHN DAYTON RITTER

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32330623 Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

FE_

DREAU OF INVEZTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OKLAHOMA CITY

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

OKLAHOMA CITY

DATE

4/29/68

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD.

2/13/68 - 4/19/68

TYPED BY

JOHN DAYTON RITTER, aka

SA HOWARD CECIL

CHARACTER OF CASE

SW

IGA

REFERENCES:

Report of HOWARD CECIL, Oklahoma City,

2/15/68;

Oklahoma City airtel to Bureau, 4/3/68.

-P-

INFORMANTS:

On March 1, 1968, DL 275-C-TE was contacted by SA HAROLD

"J.. EDGERTON and furnished

the following information:

Informant advised that insofar as he knew, JOHN RITTER

was obtaining his betting line from the "largest bookie" in Tulsa.,

Oklahoma.

He said he could not recall

the name of the böokie in

Tulsa, but believed his last name was "DALE". Informant said

he had no other definite information as to where RITTER was getting

his line.

CON VIC.

AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED None

FINES

SAVINGS

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

JYES LINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

2-ECIFZ8 CHARGE

162-20281

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

4

EX-110

3-Bureau (162-2028)

1-USA, Oklahoma

City

2-Oklahoma City (162-828)

G1AI210R

REC-9

MAY I 1968

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date F.wd.

How Fwd.

900

By

62 MAY 7 1968

¿ DE

" Notation's

287

CORTER ASCEN

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1967 0-273-877

NW 64578 Docld:32330623 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OC 162-828

Informant also advised that COLSTON had been in

Dallas, and about two weeks ago, was to have gone to Lake

Tahoe, Nevada, with informant's wife.

When his wife was

ready to leave, COLSTON could not be located and informant

has no idea where she might have gone or where she is currently

located. Informant stated he has removed himself from the

previous proposition in Oklahoma City wherein he and RITTER

were to go into partnership in a restaurant.

He said RITTER

wanted to put a poker game in the back room and informant said

he would not agree to this. Informant stated that, so far

as he knows, RITTER is going ahead on the restaurant deal alone.

On March 4, 1968, PCI CHARLES ELLIOTT SCALLON, advised

SA STEPHEN S. TRAVIS, Oklahoma City, that while playing bridge

at the Boomer Bridge Club in Oklahoma City, JACK RITTER told

him there was so much heat on bookmaking in Oklahoma City

and he had lost so much money in bad odds betting, that he

had closed his book for the present time.

On March 6, 1968, OC 548-PC advised that JACK RITTER

met FRANCES COLSTON in approximately, January, 1964, wher

iTTER was working at the Canadian Country Club, Canadian

County, Oklahoma.

COLSTON eventually became RITTER's mistress

and in

1965, RITTIR began to hold weekly poker games in COLSTON's

apartment.

Each Monday night, RITTER and eight or ten others

would meet at this apartment and hold poker games which each

player had to "buy in" with at least $300.

Later "In the same year, RITTER and Oklahoma City

bookmaker, KENNETH/FLANERY, were

booking out of the Capitol

Arms Apartments in Oklahoma City.- In 1966, RITTER's

mistress obtained a job as assistant manager of the Normandie

Apartments in Oklahoma City, and RITTIR obtained an apartment

in that building and booked

from it during the football

season. In 1967, RITTER again obtained an apartment at the

Normandie Apartments after booking in COLSTON's apartment

for three or four days.

Informant has seen RITTER accepting bets and

calling other local Oklahoma City bookies, but to informant's

knowledge, RITTER has never

made or accepted any out-of-state

telephone calls.

Informant has heard, RITTeR and Dallas,

bookie, JOHNNY STONE, discuss another Dallas bookie,

R. D. MATHEWS , as

bookmaker, GEORGEyBARNEs close friend of Oklahoma City

Informant feels RITTER does not

Of MATHEWS judging from the way he talks

about MATHEWS. Informant has never known RITTER to

_ B -

COVER PAGE

162-2028

NW 64578 Docld:32330623 Page 3

---

## Page 4

OC 162-828

contact MATHEWS

OkLahoma City bookie, at the After Hours Club, Logan County,

Oklahoma

On March 11, 1968, OC 549-PC advised SA HOWARD CECIL

that he was to play poker that night with RITTER and others

at the apartment of JIM WEHBA, apartment 301, Belle Isle

Apartments, Oklahoma City.

Informant also stated RITTER lost a considerable

amount of money booking during the past year and among

others, owes Oklahoma City bookies KENNETH ILANERY and TRACY

POE, as well as, Dallas, TExas bookie JOHNNYONE.

On March 15, 1968, OC 548-PC advised SA HOWARD -

CECIL that RITTER's weekly poker game for the night of

March 1l, 1968, was supposed to be held at the apartment of

JIM WEHBA at the Belle Isle apartments; however, WEHBA

ad to go out of town and the game was changed to the apartment

of FRED MONSOUR at the Spanish Village Apartments, Oklahoma

City.

Because of the snow storm, RITTER and MONSOUR were

the only players who showed up.

RITTER's wife has gone to Hot Springs, Arkansas

for two weeks to attend the horse races.

She goes there

each year where she meets with a man with whom she is having

an affair.

RITTER is unaware of this. RITTER's wife is

reported to be a former prostitute.

RITTER obtained his football schedules during the past

football season from Oklahoma City bookie BRUCE COUCH.

RITTER

then mailed the blank scheddles out to his bettors who had

to call RITTER for the "line". RITTER would meet with his

bettors on each Monday at the DeVille Motel to settle up:

RITTER had a

poor season and is in bad financial shape.

On March 22, 1968, OC 548-PC advised SA HOWARD CECIL

that RITTER left at 10:30 A.M. that date for Wichita Falls,

Texas, to attend a bridge tournament. He intends to return

1968, in time to attend the weekly poker game

at JIll HA's apartment located at the Belle Isle Apartments

in Oklahoma City.

This informant advised at 8:30 P.M.

on March 25,

1968, that RITTER and Oklahoma City bookmaker JOR VAN SCOY

were en route to the poker game.

WEHBA has changed apartments

and is now in apartment 114 at the Belle Isle. apartments in

Oklahoma City.

-C-

COVER PAGE

162-2078-1

NW 64578 Docld:32330623 Page 4

---

