# docid-32331964

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

5a4a6 Date: 12-02-2022

Date : 11/05/98

Page :

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-90100-10182

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

52-72398-166

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : PG

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE

: 06/19/59

PAGES

63

SUBJECTS : JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

STUART SUTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4, SECTION 10(a)2, SECTION 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/05/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : RPT

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form-

FD-263 (Rev. 5-12-55)

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Cont

nt121

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CLEVELAND

DATE

6/19/59

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/20 - 6/8/59

REPORT MADE BY

RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

aps

STUART SUTOR; etal;

Unknown Subjects, Theft of 317

Weapons, 16 Blankets, 1 Carbine

Rack, Ohio National Guard Armory,

Canton, Ohio, 10/14/58

THEFT OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY;

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF, STOLEN

PROPERTY; FEDERAL FIREARMS ACT;

NEUTRALITY MATTER; CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES

Reports of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, Pittsburgh,

2/12/59. and 4/20/59

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.,

Miami, 3/30/59

Report of SA ROBERT W. KENNEDY, New York, 5/20/59

Report of Latent Fingerprint Section, 4/10/59

Report

Of SA FRED E. GORDON,

Jacksonville,

4/17/59

-

P-

ALL IND

MATION CONTAINED

HERDIN

EXCEP

UNOLASSITIED

HERE SHOWN

OTHERW I/

(PRIATE AG

EID

CES

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED B

REASON FON

FCIM, I1, 3-7

DATE OF A

DECLASSIFICATION

N2I03

ON

..3..

6119/29

SPECIAL AGENT

N CHARGE

ADE:

See next page for copies

• 5194*.

MAUG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

5272398-166 REC-83

15 JUN 23 1959

EX.-

132-

rathsser.

7 JUL 6 - 1959

PROPERTY OF FBI.-This report is loaned to you by the FBy, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loan

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 52-1687

Copies:

Bureau (52-72398)

USA, Falrmont, w.Va.

1 USA, Pittsburgh, Pa.

1. G, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

I ATE, Pittsburgh, Pa.

1 INS, Fittsburgh

4 Cleveland (52-1918)

(1 - 105-3211)

2 Chicago (52-3498)

2 Indianapolis

2 Jacksonville (52-125)

4. Los Angeles (52-7543)

4. Miami (52-3290)

3 New York (52-5814)

3 Washington Field (52-5612)

3. Pittsburgh (52-1687)

COVER PAGE

A

at 281

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 3

---

## Page 4

dont.

X9x6J01

PG 52-1687

ADMINISTRATIVE

SAMUEL MANNARINO, FBI $115840

The following investigation was conducted in an

effort to obtain a recent photograph of national top hoodlum,

SAMUEL MANNARINO,

to establish his presence at the Seagull

Hotel in Miami Beach, Florida, under the allas SAu MANN,

during the te

during the important stages of the gun-running conspiracys

1.e. 10/24/58 - 11/7/58.

A recent photograph is also needed

in connection with investigation at the warwick and St. Moritz

Hotels, New York, New York.

On 4/30/59 SA RICHARD GORDON DOICE contacted NORMAN

GREENBERG, crime reporter for the "pittsburgh Post Gazette,"

JAMES ROGERS, crime reporter for the "Pittsburgh press," and

LESTER SULLIVAN, crime reporter for the "pittsburgh sun

Telegraph," with the request that they make a thorough search

of their respective newspaper morgues in an effort to locate

a photograph of MANNARINo.

The reporters pointed out that for

a number of years they have been interested in obtaining a

photograph of MANNARINO, but to the best of their knowledge

no photographs of him exist. Each reporter promisted to

recheck his respective newspaper morgue but when recontacted on

5/4/59 all stated that they were unable to locate a photograph

of MANNARINO.

It is recalled that on 1/26/59 USA HUBERT I, TEITELBAUM,

Pittsburgh, Pa., revealed that he would car

as a

witness before the Federad Grand Jury during

inquiring into the

Canton,

Ohio.

came to the USA's office on the morning of.

1n

response

to a subpoena to testify before the grand

jury and refused to sign a waiver of immunity from prosecution

arising out of his possible testimony before the grand jury.

Consequently, Mr. TEITELBAUM did not consider it advisable to

actually have

testify under these circumstances.

JFK Law 10(a)2

COVER

-

PAGE

Don?

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JFK Law 10(a)2

PG 52-1687

Cont

thile

seated in

Building,

Pittsburgh.

he retreated

to the

nearest exit which happened to be a very

small clothes closet and remained there for almost two hours

sitting in a chair which he had dragged into the closet with him.

During his dash to the closet,

uttered obscene threats

to news chotographers

and the newspapers that evening described

During the

conduct as a game of "pect-a-hoo" with the press.

entire day on 3/16/59, while

was at the

New Federal Bullding, he wore dark glasses and covered his

lace completely with

& handkerchief.

JACK SCHWARTZ, SpeciaL Agent,

Intelligence Division,

Internal Revenue service, Pittsburg

advised SA DOUCE on 4/30/59

that

JFK Law 11(a)

WILLIAM AHISTROM, news editor, New Kensington, Pa.,

"Daily Dispatch" newspaper, on 6,4/59 advised SA FRANK E. ALLISON,

that for the past 20 years he has made every possible effort

to obtain a photograph of MANNARINO for publication in connection

with racket articles to no avail. AHLSTROM stated that he has

requested MANNARINO to give him a photograph on many occasions

and has been refused every time. AHLSTROM pointed out that he

has been very reluctant to take MANNARINd's photograph

surreptitiously since MANNARINO would undoubtedly file suit

against him and might even subject him to physical violence.

In conclusion, AHLSTROM expressed the opinion that there 1s

no photograph of SAMUEL MANNARINO in existence.

The following investigation was conducted by

SAS RICHARL GORDON DOUCE and ROBERT G. ABEGGLEN to establish

a photographic surveillance on the second floor of the

Central Drug Company, Executive Office, which overlooks the

Ken Iron and Steel Company In New Kensington, owned and

operated by MANNARINe.

Before making contact with the Central

Drug Company, SAS DOUCE and ABEGGLEN observed that the corner

office on the second floor would provide an excellent view

of an area often frequented by MANNARINo and that

REVIEWES A CANAL TASK FORCE

COVER PAGE

ON

7/2/95 las

L

RELEASE IN FULL

Contia

ntia.

D7 RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 52-168%

Confi

entlal

photographe could be taken at a' distance of about 35 feet.

since the inception of the

Dop Hoodlum Program serious

difficulty has been experienced in obtaining MANNARINO'S

photograph because he never appears in public without dark

glasses.

Central Drug Company Location was considered

Ideal since on 5/29/59 SAS DOUCE and ABEOGLEN observed

MANNARINO standing in front of his office without sunglasses.

Executive

WILLIS

Vice president, Central Drug Company,

Orfaces,

1263 - 320 Arenue, New Kensington, on

5/29/59 was contacted concerning the

FBI's interest in obtaining

a photograph or MANNARINO.

Without aisclosing any details

of the investigation, mus was told that MANARINd was the subject

of an important criminal investigation and that the FBI would

greatly appreciate using a second floor office as a vantage

point to obtain nis photograph.

HUG stated that in the

Interest of good citizenshio and because of his disgust over

the corruptive influence present In New Kensington due to

MANNARINO control of the community he would be glad to

make the space avallable with the approval of A. E. BLEIER,

President of Central Drug Company.

Mr.

HUG

suggested

that the agents walt for Mr. BLEIER's

retuon since be was expected in the office within the hour.

When Mr. BLETER arrived, Mr. HUG did not explain the purpose

of the visit and SAS DOUCE and ABEGGLEN were introduced to

MY. BLETER and accompanied him to his office on the second floor

which was the ideal location to take photographs.

It should be noted that when SAS DOUCE and ABEGGLEN

entered the Central Drug Company they did not identify themselves

to the receptionist

on duty but merely asked to speak to Mr.

Since the agents were carrying briefcases containing

cameras and were required to wait a short time before seeing

Mr. HuG in a room occupied by drug salesmen also carrying

briefcases,

there was absolutely no grounds for the receptionist

to assume that the callers were Special Agents of the FBI.

This form of approach was taken to afford the utmost precaution

and protection to the Central Drug executive contact since 1t

was felt that no one in the company except one or possibly two

executives, should know of the agents desires.

COVER PAGE

Coura

ntlal

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 52-1687

Me. BLEIER appeared to be genuinely pleased to

see the interviewing agents and before the purpose of the

visit was explained, he outlined at some length his hardships

as a young man who successfully developed a proistable chain

of drug stores servicing several Pennsylvania counties.

He

stated that he was appalled that the racket element in

Kensington held such tight control over the community and

emphasized that over the years he has attempted to dedicate

himself to improving the situation by being of service to

his community.

As an example, BLEIER pointed out that he 1s a

former member of the Lions and somewhat active as a Rotarian.

Mr. BLETER also spoke at some length about his membership

In the local country club and at that point in the interview

asked the agents how he might be of assistance.

Without disclosing any details of the investigation,

Mr. BLEIER waS told that SAMUEL MANNARINO was the subject of

an important criminal investigation being conducted by the

FBI and that he could be of real service by making his office

available as a vantage point from which the agents could

obtain a photograph of MANNARINO. Upon hearing this, Mr.

BLEIER's hands began to shake noticeably and his entire

attitude and expression changed immediately. It seemed

obvious to the interviewing agents that the man was almost

terror stricken at the agents' request when it involved

MANNARINO.

After a few

moments of silence on the part of Mr.

re-gained his composure and began making

excuses to the effect that If his employees ever learned that

photograpns were taken from his office, business might be

subjected to a boycott on the part of the Italian population

in New Kensington. Mr. BLEIER was reminded that it was his

duty as a good citizen to extend cooperation to the FBI in

connection with investigations into violations of Federal

law, and he agreed that it was his clear duty to grant the

agents' permission to take the photographs. He agreed that

a man of his background and position in the community should

be pleased to assist the fBI especialy when such assistance

would be of great value in the possible solution of an

COVER PAGE

- E.

Conf

Yential

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Conf dential

PG 52-1687

important matter under investigation involving one that

he admittedly recognized as being responsible for the

present corruption in his community. Mr. BLEIER strongly

Implied that he was afraid of MANNARINO and his confederates

and the possible reprisal he might be subjected to if the

photographs were ever made public.

It was explained to Mr. BLEIER that the photographs

would be treated in such a manner that such a situation would

never occur, but he

still declined

He promised, however, to give the

matter some serious thought

and would contact the office if he changed his mind.

Mr. BLEIER was reinterviewed by SAS DOUCE and ABEGGLEN

on 6/1/59 and again refused to give his permission to take

photographs, saying that he had to place duty to his business

above duty to his country.

Mr. WILLIS V. HUG was recontacted on 6/1/59 by

SAS DOUCE and ABEGGIEN at which time he emphasized that he

was greatly disappointed over the decision reached by Mr.

BLETER, but added that since he had no control over this

situation there was nothing at all he cout do.

It is noted that only Mr. BLEIER and Mr. HUG were

aware that agents had contacted the Central Drug Company for

the purpose of obtaining a photograph of MANNARINO.

JACK SCHWARTZ, Special Agent, Intelligence Division,

Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh, on 6/5/59, in a telephone

call to SA DOUCE,

COVER PAGE conEsent1al

- F-

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 8

---

## Page 9

... i.

PG 52-1687

tential

It Is noted that even though SCHWARTZ has been

most cooperative in the past in connection with top hoodlum

Investigation in New Kensington, he was not given any

information concerning the plans to photograph MANNARINO from

the Central Drug Company nor was the unsuccessful approach to

the Central Drug Company revealed to him.

It appears logical to assume that BLEIER was in

such fear of reprisal on the part of MANNARINO and his

confederates should it become known that Bureau Agents

attempted to photograph him, that he immediately told

MANNARINO of the Bureau's plans.

This situation is an excellent

example of the obstacles that must be overcome in connection

with any violation within the Bureau's jurisdiction in New

Kensington which is dominated completely by the MANNARINO

gang.

on 5/29/59 SA DOUCE contacted Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. POST,

established neighborhood sources covering MANNARINO's residence

since the inception of the Top Hoodlum Program.

Without

disclosing details of the investigation Mr. and Mrs. POST were

impressed with the necessity of obtaining a recent photograph

of MANNARINO. Mr. POSt, an executive in the International

DIVision of ALCOA, and his wife, stated that they would be

pleased to make available a room on the second floor of their

home which was located diagonally across the street from

MANNARINO's residence at a distance of approximately 125 feet.

SAS DOUCE and ABEGGLEN maintained a photographic surveillance

Irom the Post residence using the Alfa camera

and Photo Tel

eng t t me me to pe on Saturday, 6/6/59, but

MANNARINO was not observed although several photographs

of his

family were taken.

on sunday, 0/7/59, the photographic surveillance

continued from 7:30 AM until 12:30 PM with agents working 15

minute shifts on the camera in order tobe prepared when

MANNARINO left his home.

At 11:05 AM on Sunday morning,

MANNARINO appeared in the doorway wearing sunglasses and a

summer hat pulled well down over his eyes. He quickly walked

from the doorway to his car parked in front of his house, with

hishead down, and SA ABEGGLEN was able to take approximately 15

COVER PAGE

-G-

Cont

ntisi

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 9

---

## Page 10

U00I1

ntial

PG 52-1687

photographs in the space of approximately 20 seconds. At

present,

these photographs are

being developed but it is

doubtful whether they will be of any value to this investigation.

No additional photographic surveillances are

contemplated from the POST home or elsewhere In New Kensington

because of the obstacles outlined above.

The situation will be

followed closely, however, and in the event MANNARINO should

ever appear in public without sunglasses photographic

survei lances will again be considered.

ALBERTO ARDURA, aka., Alberto Ardura Moya

Investigation conducted to date in Miami and Jacksonville,

Florida, discloses that ARDURA, a Cuban National and part owner

of the Tropicana Nightclub, now living In Ormond Beach, Florida,

with his family since the collapse of the BATISTA government,

has been identified in connection with an exchange of long

distance telephone calls to NORMAN ROTHMAN, now under Indictment

in this case, which included calls to "SAMMY" in New York City

during February, 1959, who is probably 1dentical with

national top hoodlum SAMUEL MANNARINO.

For the benefit of all offices, ARDURA has long been

recognized by

the Pittsburgh Office as a confederate of SAMUEL

MANNARINO. As an example, MANNARINO in October, 1956, advised

that he had shipped a number of slot machines to ARDURA and

ROTHMAN in care of the Tropicana Nightclub in Havana, Cuba,

and pointed out that Cuban Government, at that time,

had

granted them permission to place the machines in various spots

throughout the island. MANNARINO at that time admitted that

he would have an interest in the operation.

Moreover, Havana 4, Interviewed by the Legat in

September, 1956, described ARDURA as the principal importer

of slot machines in Cuba associated with MARTIN FOX in the

operation of the Tropicana Nightclub. Havana 4 at that time

characterized ARDURA as a close personal friend of Colonel

ROBERTO FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, brother-in-law of former Cuban

dictator FULGENCIO BATISIA and director of the Cuban National

X(4)

COVER PAGE

- H -

Conf1

intial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 10

---

## Page 11

times ones?

PO 52-1687

Commission of Sports. Havana 4 said at that time that

through the influence of MIRANDA, ARDURA had no difficulty

In placing slots on location In Cuba: #(U)

To further demonstrate ARDURA's closeness to

MANNARINO, It Is Interesting to note that during the Top

Hoodlum investigation In New Kensington, it was discovered

that during the period, March, 195% to July, 1957, the

New Ken Novesty Company operated by MANNARio, shipped 137

slot machines and five boxes of slot machine parts to

ALBERT ARDURA, In care of the Tropicana Nightclub.

on the basis of past experience in the Top Hoodlum

Program, there 1s little doubt that MANNARINO, ROTHMAN and

ARDURA are very close and it is not beyond the realm of

possibility that ARDURA, along with ROIlMAN, could have been

the receiver of the National Guard weapons when they reached

Cuba.

It is significant that Dr. LOUIS C. PESSOLANO,

when first interviewed concerning the part he played in

the

gun-running conspiracy, came up with the name CECIL HARDURA,

as the person who instructed him to rent the twin engine

Beechcraft for a hunting and fishing party.

Dr. PESSOLANO

nas, of course, implicated ROTHMAN as the man who instructed

him

in the matter

since that time but in his effort to hamper

the investigation; PESSOLANO may have unintentionally brought

out the fictitious name HARDURA knowing that ARDURA was

involved in the conspiracy.

PHILLIP. JAMES MAINER, FBI #868314A

It is recalled that MAINER and his associate, GEORGE

MIKE FLOREA, FBI #2888609, were named by Canton; Onto,

Police

Department Informant at the beginning of this investigation

as the men who committed the burglary at the Ohio National

Guard Armory on 10/14/58.

It 1s also recalled that supplemental investigation

in New Kensington established that MAINER was in contact with

COVER PAGE

Conf

Montial.

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 11

---

## Page 12

FG 52-1687

Confi

Antial

POI HENRY ABRAHAM Of this offIce approximately two years ago

in an effort to sell a load of stolen cigarettes which may

have eventually reached GABRIEL MANNARINO, owner of the

S&S Distributing Company, & cigarette vending machine

business In New Kensington. Most offices are aware that

the s&S Distributing Company panel truck was used to

transport part of

the stolen weapons to the airport in this

case and, of course, GABRIEL MANNARINO Is

the brother of

SAMUEL MANNARINO."

when Interviewed In February, 1959, FCI ABRAHAM

he was not acquainted

With MAINER but mentioned

two Individuals had approached him some time ago vith a

hot cigarettes

It may be

signifIcant

that ABRAHAM

brought out the name of a man ho tried

to sell the hot

cigarettes who is now

dead.

The following Incestigation was conducted to

again determine whether AbrAHaM could be acquainted with

MAINER.

On 4/21/59 PCI ABRAHAM examined a good photograph

OL MAINER and advised

I SA JOHNS. PORTELLA

that MAINER was not

the person who accompanied UFFIE CHARLES, deceased, several

years ago in an effort to sell a load of

stolen cigarettes.

ABRAHAM also denied that he ever referred CHARLES or anyone

else attempting to sell stolen merchandise, to GABRIEL

MANNARINO at the S&S Distributing Company or anyone

connected with

the MANNARINO gang:

It is noted that eariler in this investigation

confidential source MIKE ZERVOS, Who Is well acquainted with

ABRAHAM, positively identified MAINER as the person who

approached ABRAHAMalth another unknown individual approximately

two years ago in an erfort to sell a load of cigarettes.

ZERVOS also pointed out at that time that he had seen MAINER

1n New Kensington on a number of occasions loafing around the

Kenmar Hotel which is a gathering place for members of the

MANNARINO gang.

AS an exampLe, DANIEL HANNA, aKA. SPEEDO,

who is already under Indictment in this case

as one who

COVER PAGE

J

Confi

ntial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PG 52-1687

Content 122

assisted in the loading of the weapons

at the Allegheny

Valley Alsport, spends almost every alternoon in the

Kenmar Hotel lobby and cocktail Lounge.

PAT CARUSO

PEI HENRY ABRAHAM, On 4/21/59, advited SA PORTELLA

that PAT CARUSO or PAT FERRUCCIO, not further described of.

Chio, and a very close friend of AL SEID of the

MANNARINO gang in New Kensington, might have had something

to do with the National Guard Armory burglary. ABRAHAM

furnished this information in response to a question by

SA PORTELLA as to whether ABRAHAM had any theories or Ideas

as to who perpetrated the burglary.

he has no positive information that CARUSO was actually

connected with the job but described him as an active

racket figure in Canton and one time lieutenant of "NICK

THE GREEK," who at one time controlled the rackets of

Carton.

ABRAHAM was of the opinion that further investigation

Of CARUSO and his associates would be varranted in this case.

JEROME M. GLUCK, aka., Jerry G11CK,

FBI: #5039711

The following investigation was conducted to

identify JEROME M. GLUCK, who was characterized during

the: Initial stages of this investigation as an agent for

the Dominican Republic attempting to purchase arms and

ammunition in Pittsburgh, Pa.

Thisphase of theinvestigation

1s considered important since the name JERRY GLICK, OW

1dentifled as JEROME M. GLUCK, was first introduced into

the case in connection with a long distance telephone call

from JOE MEROLA's sulte at the Warwick Hotel In New York,

N.Y., on 9/6/58, to the office of JAMES A. ASHTON, attorney

at law, Pittsburgh:

A summary of this phase of the Investigation will

be found on cover pages D through K, in report of SA RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE, PIttsburgh, 4/20/59.

On 5/5/59 MAXWELL KAHN, editor and pubalsner,

"Clairton Progress," weekly newspaper published in clairton,

Pa., advised SAS DOUCE and THOMAS G. FORSYTH III, as follows:

COVER PAGE

- K -

Conf

gentlal

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PG 52-1687

Con

dential

He has been a resident of Clairton only since 1943 and

never became too well acquainted with the CLUCK family; hug who

he heard rumors that JERRY GLUCK was a "loafer and gambler"

had been in some sort of trouble with the law prior to the time

KAHN arrived in Clairton. He said he was certain that ANDY

KVASNAK, Clairton real estate agent, would know more about the

GLUCKS.

on the same date BERNARD J. WATKO, Real Estate Agent,

Andrew Kvasnak Agency, 324 St. Clair Avenue, Clairton, advised

SAS DOUCE and FORSYTH as follows:

WATKO's father-in-law, ANDREW KVASNAK, Is the rental

agent for several properties in Clairton owned by the GLUCK

family. SAMUEL GLUCK formerly owned the property. He was a

banker in Clairton until his retirement in 1948, at which time

he moved to Florida. SAMUEL GLUCK died in about 1957, and his

properties are now owned by his widow, SARAH GLUCK, who resides

at 220 South Coconut Lane, Palm Island, Miami Beach 39, Florida.

Mr. and urs. GLUcK had two sons, the elder being JERRY GLUCK,

Florida.

of age, is a graduate of the Law School, University of Pittsburgh,

and 1s a practicing attorney in Miami, Florida.

JERRY GLUCK attended the University of Pittsburgh

but was expelled for some unknown reason.

He was a "ne'er-do

well" who would not study or work but preferred to spend his

gambling or shooting pool. He was involved in some sort

of a"lover's lane" murder In approximately 1942 but was

subsequently cleared by a Coronen's Jury in Allegheny County,

Pittsburgh. JERRY GLUCK left home and went to Florida, purpose

unknown, in approximately 1946 or 1947. He married a girl

names HARTSTEIN (phonetic),who was the daughter of a wealthy

Pittsburgh hardware dealer, and when she received

a substantial

inheritance, JERRY GLUCK dissipated it.

In about 1950 and 1951,

JERRY GLUCK. was arrested and convicted on a charge of rape in

Florida, and he spent several years in a penal institution in Florida

as a result of this conviction.

COVER PAGE

- L-

visi

GonE

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 14

---

## Page 15

PG 52-1687

Geor

ntiat

On the same date Chief PETER P. ORSINI, Clairton

Police Department, advised SAS DOUCE and FORSYTH that his

department had no record of arrest for any member of the GLUCK

family.

He said he was not clear as to the facts but did

recall

that JERRY GLUCK had been arrested, and subsequently

cleared, in a murder case in about 1942 and he said the

Allegheny County Detective Bureau, Pittsburgh, would probably

have the details.

Chief ORSINI said that recently a source

of his, whom he declined to identify, told him that JERRY

GLUCK had been in the Clairton - Pittsburgh vicinity in the

summer of 1958 for a few weeks.

Chief ORSII said his

source

related that JERRY GLUCK had been attempting to buy a "discount

departed,

there was

"plenty of action" there.

On the same date EDWARD PAULSEN, resident manager,

Webster Hall Hotel,

Oakland Section, Pittsburgh, advised SAS

DoUcE and Forsyth that a thorough review of the hotel's records

for the months of May and September, 1958, reflected no infor-

mation concerning JERRY GLUCK or other names he has possibly

used,

such as BEN AZAROW, HENRY COHEN and HENRY STERN. PAULSEN

said that his was the only good hotel in the oakland section

of Pittsburgh, and that the old Schenley Hotel had gone out of

existence prior to May, 1958.

The Miami Office on 6/5/59 forwarded a photograph

Of JEROME M. GLUCK, Miami Beach Police Department #A16981,

FBI #5039711, obtained from the Miami Beach PD by Ic

CLIFFORD M. WERNER. GLUCK's arrest record at the Miami Beach

PD discloses that he was taken into custody on 5/26/38 by the

for disorderly condies and resisting an orficer by the

Michigan, for gross indeceney; on 1/21/40,

Hollywood, Florida, PD; and on 12/13/50, for investigation by

the Dade County Sheriff's Office, Miami, Florida.

The Miami Office advised that according to the

files of the Dade County Sheriff's Office, GLUCK was arrested

on 3/16/53 for assault with intent to commit rape.

COVER PAGE

- M -

Contid

tial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 15

---

## Page 16

PG 52-1687

Conf

dentia)

INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED TO IDENTIFY LATENT FINGERPRINT IMPRESSION

ON FIVE GALLON OIL CAN RECOVERED AT ALLEGHENY VALLEY AIRPORT,

12/5/58

Extensive investigation has

been conducted to identify

the latent impression on the five gallon oil can, including a

fingerprint analysis of all officers

and enlisted men assigned

to the 744th AAA Missile Battalion, at Russellton,

Pa., "near

the Allegheny Valley Alrport.

During the initial

stages of

this case, the manufacturer of the hydraulic oil was

Identified in Los Angeles, California, and the shipment in

which the can was shipped

to Army Ordinance has abso been

established. It has been determined that cans similar to

the one recovered at the Allegheny Valley Airport on

11/5/58 were shipped by Army Ordinance to the 744th AAA Missile

Battalion.

Moreover, a number of such cans were actually

observed on the missile launching site and since investigation

at Canton, Ohio, indicates that five gallon oil cans are not

stocked by the National Guard Armory, no further inquiry will

be made concerning this phase of the

investigation at this time

since it appears that the oil can was not thrown from SUTOR's

airplane on 10/26/58 or 11/4/58.

The fingerprints of all logical suspects have been

compared with the latent impression on the can without making

an identification.

Telephone Company Sources

The source at the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania

1s Special Agent WILLIAM MEREDITH contacted by SA HAROLD L.

STEVENS.

The source at the North Pittsburgh Telephone Company

1S EULA POFF, Commerical Supervisor, contacted by SA RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE.

LEADS

All offices conducting investigation in this case are

requested to submit the results promptly in report form in order

to keep the Bureau advised of current developments.

COVER PAGE

-N-

iaL

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 16

---

## Page 17

PG 52-1687

CHICAGO

Conf

ential

At Chicago, Illinois

Will conduct Investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to Bureau, 5/7/59, Involving Interviews with subscribers

to telephone numbers called from the private line of national

top hoodlum, SAMUEL MANNARINO, at the Ken Iron and Steel

Company, during the active stages of the gun-running conspiracy.

CLEVELAND

At Canton, Ohio

1. Will contact logical Informants concerning PAT

CARUSO or PAT FERRUCCIO described as an important racket

figure in Canton to determine his possible connection with

the burglary on 10/14/58.

2. Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to Bureau, 5/7/59, Involving Interview with subscriber

to telephone number Gb 2-1024, called seven days after the

burglary (10/21/58) from the private line of SAMUEL MANNARINO

in New Kensington. It is noted that the same number was called

by MANNARINO for "GEORGE" from the St. Moritz Hotel In New York

City on 10/22/58.

3. In the event investigation discloses that this

Canton number is registered to GEORGE MIKE FLOREA, FBI #2888609,

or that it 1s a telephone which he has used in the past, he

should be interviewed at length and viewed as a definite

suspect in connection with the burglary on 10/14/58.

4. Will conduct long distance telephone checks for

calls emanating from GL 2-1624 during the period October, 1958,

to December, 1958, for evidence of calls to SAMUEL MANNARINO

or other conspirators under indictment in this case.

INDIANA POLIS

At Huntington, Indiana

Will conduct investigation requested in Ptsburgh

COVER PAGE

- O - Confi

antial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 17

---

## Page 18

PO 52-1687

Confidential

airtel to Bureau, 5/7/59, involving the interview of WILLIAM

ALLEN called from SAMUEL MANNARINO's private line, 10/20/58,

six days

before the first load of weapons stolen from the

Ohio National Guard Armory were flown out of the Allegheny

Valley Airport by STUART SUTOR.

JACKSONVILLE

At Daytona and Ormond Beach, Florida

1. Will review background material concerning ALBERTO

ARDURA covering his numerous dealings with SAMUEL MANNARINO and

NORMAN ROTHMAN set out previously herein on pages H and I.

2. Will Interview B. W. COFFIN, U.S. Border Patrol

Inspector, to determine ARDURA's official immigration status

and whether he might be subject to deportation for failure

to provide full cooperation in connection with this investigation.

It is noted that ARDURA, on 1/20/59, telephoned

Mrs. BATISTA presumably at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York

City. Mrs. BATISTA is probably the wife of former Cuban

dictator, FULGENCIO BATISTA, who has long been rumored to have

worked closely with ARDURA when he was in power in Cuba.

3.

Will, in the light of investigation conducted

concerning EDMUND A. CHESTER, furnish your recommendations

concerning the productivity of a thorough interview with

ARDURA for information of value in this case.

It seems logical

to assume that since ARDURA 1s probably a BATISTA sympathizer

it would probably be dangerous for him to return to Cuba at

this time. Consequently, his immigration status should be

determined prior to such an interview and Jacksonville should

request all pertinent reports from Pittsburgh, Cleveland and

Miami before contemplating the interview.

LOS ANGELES

At Burbank, Pacolma, Los Angeles and Riverside, California

Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

COVER PAGE

_P -

Lundi

at ial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 18

---

## Page 19

PG 52-1687

airtel to Miami, 5/11/59, involving Interviews with associates

or acquaintances of STUART SUTOR.

MIAMI

At Tampa, Florida

1. Will locate and Interview HANS GOSTA MILTON

concerning the revolutionary activities of JOE MEROlA, particularly

MEROLA'& reported onership of the boat "MENACE. "

2. Will Interview MILTON thoroughly concerning the

report that

he made some arrangement with MEROLA alter purchasing

the boat to work out the price by making trips presumably for

MEROLA.

This investigation is requested because the USA's

office in Pittsburgh feels that any evidence

showing a pattern

of activity or involvement of MEROLA in revolutionary activities

might be admitted as evidence in USDe to substantiate the

conspiracy charges.

Consequently, if MILTON would disclose that

he ran guns between the United States and Cuba for MEROLA, such

Information would be of great value to the investigation.

3. Will, at the appropriate USOGDistrict office,

confirm information furnished by Border Patrol Inspector

ANTHONY PROVENZO that MEROLA was actually the registered owner

of the boat "MENACE.

At Miami Beach, Florida

Will interview JEROME M. GLUCK, FBI #5039711, for

information concerning the gun-running activities of ROTHMAN,

MEROLA, MANNARINO and PESSOLANO after the Pittsburgh Office

resolves the question of his identity by displaying his

photograph to CHARLES R. HENSHAW, Pittsburgh gun smith.

Background information concerning this phase of the investigation

is covered on pages D through K in report of SA RICHARD GORDON

DOUCE, Pittsburgh, 4/20/58.

At Miami, Miami Beach and North Dock, Florida

Will conduct investigation in Pittsburgh airtel to the

COVER PAGE

= -

Confian

ial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Coat

ntie!

PG 52-1687

Bureau, 5/7/59, Involving interviews with subscribers called

from SAMUEL MANNARINO's private line in New Kensington, Pa.,

during the important stages of the gun-running conspiracy.

Miami note that the call to North Dock, Florida, on 11/5/58

or one day after SUTOR

could have been a call to GEORGE MIKE FLOREA, Who was named

by a Canton PD informant at the outset of this investigation

as one of the perpetrators at the Armory burglary on 10/14/58.

At Davie, Fort Lauderdale, Hialeah, Miami and Orlando,

Florida

will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to Miami, 5/11/59, involving interviews with associates

and/or contacts of STUART SUIOR.

At Miami, Florida

Will contact major airlines,

especially Eastern

airlines, normally used by MANNARINO, for evidence of flight

reservation under the name SAL MANN during the period, 11/5 - 8/58.

This investigation 1s requested as a result of information

developed at the Seagull Hotel since any reservation obtained which

would indicate that MANNARINO returned to Pittsburgh might

eventually assist in his ultimate identification as a guest at

the Seagull.

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1.Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to the Bureau, 5/7/59, involving interview with LEONARD

GAINES, script writer for the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) ,

who was called by JOE MEROLA from his sister's home in Pittsburgh

the same day STUART SUTOR flew the first load of weapons stolen

from the Armory out of the Allegheny Valley Airport.

COVER PAGE

•R -

Con?

ential

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 20

---

## Page 21

PG 52-1687

Conf}

ential

2. Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to New York, 6/2/59, concerning the preservation of

song astance te ephone recoras pertaining to calls made from

the st. Moritz HoteL by NoRMAN RoThMAn and samuel MaNNARINo.

3. Will contact all major airlines serving

Miami, Florida, and vicinity, for evidence of a reservation

under the name SAMUEL MANNARINO Or SAL MANN aboard a flight

to Miami during the period, 10/22 - 24/58. It 1s noted

that MANNARINO placed a long distance telephone call from NORMAN

ROTHMAN's suite at the St. Moritz Hotel person to person to

"GEORGE" in Canton, Ohio, on 10/22/58 or eight days after the

burglary of the Armory.

Investigation in New York does not

Indicate that MANNARINO was registered at the St. Moritz at this

time but it seems reasonable to assume that he probably flew

to Florida immediately after the 10/22/58 call to Canton

since a check of his telephone at the Ken Iron and Steel

Company in New Kensington ipdicates that someone called Dr.

LOUIS C. PESSOLANO collect for MANNARINO on 10/23/58.

experience in the Top Hoodlum Program indicates MANNARINO •

normally flies by Eastern Airlines.

At New York City and Hempstead, New York

Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to Miami, 5/11/59 Involving Interviews of associates

or contacts of STUART SUTOR, and his possible contact with a

foreign consulate in NYC.

WASHINGTON FIELD

At Washington, D.C.

1.Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to Miami, 5/11/59, involving interviews, STUART SUTOR'S

associates and contact with the Federal Aviation Agency with

regard to registration numbers of airplanes found in SUTOR's

notebook.

2. Will conduct investigation requested in Pittsburgh

airtel to Bureau, 5/7/59, concerning a telephone call from

COVER PAGE

•S -

60012

ial

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 21

---

## Page 22

PG 52-1687

SAMUEL MANNARINO's private line at the Ken Iron and Steel

Company,

New Kensington, on 10/17/58,

to the Reservation

Department, telephone number ST 3-5454.

PITTSBURGH

AT Mars, Pa. (Butlet)

Will Interview E. MEROLA, Three Degree Road, telephone

NA 5-8177, to determine his relationship to JOE MEROLA as

well as the substance of a telephone call placed to his home

on 11/3/58 from the residence of JOE MEROLA'a sister, Pittsburgh,

Mrs. ANDREW SIMS.

At Arnold, Pa. (Westmoreland)

1.Wilt reinterview THOMAS J. OCCELLI, 1525 Woodmont

Avenue, to determine whether he can

telephone number billed to his home telephone during October,

1 15 20a vene

recognize an unfamiliar

1958, If such a number is located, will conduct logical

investigation to establish

the identity of the subscriber who

may have been in contact with the unknown man who used the

OCCELLI's telephone in late October, 1958, after arriving

at the Allegheny Valley Airport.

So determine nether pe rayton dent to thin the map in greet,

JR., to Mr. and Mrs.

came to the OCELLI home from the Allegheny Valley Airport in

late October, 1958.

At Lower Burrell Township (Westmoreland) Pa.

on 9/25 and 27/58, from a suite at the Warwick Hotel, New

York

City, occupied by JOE MEROLA and CHESTER GRAY.

COVER PAGE

_T -

Conta

jential

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 22

---

## Page 23

PG 52-1687

condone sat

At New Kensington, Pa. (Westmoreland)

1.Will interview FRANK GUZ, 168 - 7th Extension, to

determine

if possible why he was called by SAMUEL MANNARINO

under the

name

SAL, MANN from the Seagull Hotel In Miami Beach,

Florida, on 11/3/58:

2. Will consider interviewing SAMUEL MANNARINO when

and if Miami is successful in establishing his presence at the

Seagull Hotel, In contact with other co conspirators during

the period, 10/24/58 - 11/8/58.

3. Will attempt to obtain a photograph of VICTOR

CARLUCCI's black English Prefect Sportscar and display same

to ALVIN FISH.

At Pittsburgh, Pa. (Allegheny)

1.Will report results of interviews with subscribers

in Linesville,

Warren, Monongahela and Weedville,

who were

called from SAMUEL MANNARINO's private telephone

at the Ken

Iron and Steel Company, New Kensington, during the period October,

1958 to December, 1958.

2. Will report results of investigation being conducted

by the legat, ottawa, canada, concerning two Long distance

telephone calls from SAMUEL MANNARINO's private line at the Ken

Iron and Steel Company on 10/20/58, to Montreal, Canada, telephone

VI 9-0260.

3. Will contact major airlines serving Miami, Florida,

for evidence of a reservation made by SAMUEL MANNARINO under his

true name or the alias SAL MANN on a might to New York City

during the period, 10/20/58 - 10/22/58.

4. Will follow and report results of prosecution

in the NDWVA and WDPa.

COVER PAGE

-U-

some faries

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 23

---

## Page 24

F1D-201 (Rev. 8-23-58)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

File Number:

Title:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

I - USA,

Fairmont, w.Va.

1 • USA,

Pittsburgh,

Pa.

1

1

-G=2,

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

- ATU,

Pittsburgh

1 - INS,

Pittsburgh

RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

6/19/59

Pittsburgh 52-1687

STUART SUTOR; etal.

PITTSBURGH

Ofice:

Bureau 52-72398

Character:

THEFT OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY; INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

STOLEN PROPERTY; FEDERAL FIREARMS ACT; NEUTRALITY MATTER;

CONSPIRACY

Synopsis:

series of motions filed by subjects attorneys in USDC, WDPa.,

Pittsburgh, Pa., April, 1959.

disclosed

Supplemental investigatior

several long distance telephone calls between co-

conspirators,

including one call to subscriber in Canton,

Ohio, 10/21/58.

Canton call emanated from Ken Iron and

New Kensington, Pa., owned by SAMUEL MANNARINO,

551 7115340. Associates and/or contacts of STUART SUTOR,

FBI #59973D, in California, Florida, New York and Washington,

D.C., 1dentified herein.

Fingerprint analysis disclosed

ringerprints of SAMUEL MANNARINO, GABRIEL MANNARINO, FBI

7054050, and NORMAN ROTHMAN, FBI #152505B, not identical with

latent impression found on five gallon hydraulie oil can

recovered at Allegheny Valley Airport, Russellton, Pa.,

November, 1958. Inguiry, 744th AAA Missile Battalion,

adjoining airport runway, revealed enlisted men periodically

discard

used cans on airport property contrary to instructions.

Weapons recovered at Morgantown, W.Va., airport November,

1950, examined by representatives of Alcohol and Tobacco Tax

Division, U.S. Treasury Dept., to determine U.S. Army Ordinance

markings.

Identification records of JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299,

and NORMAN ROTHMAN, set forth.

- P -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE.

5/15 29/ BY SPD TAP/CA

10/894 SOS MAUGAT

it_and/or.its.contents.are.not.to.be.distributad_ontsido_vour.aoan.u.

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 24

---

## Page 25

PG 52-1687

TABLE

OF

CONTENTS

rage

BASIS FOR

SEARCH AND SEIZURE OF TWIN- ENGINE

BEECHCRAFT #N7165-0

3

II. EXAMINATION OF WEAPONS RECOVERD AT MORGANTOWN, WEST

VIRGINIA, AIRPORT, NOVEMBER, 1958, BY ALCOHOL

TOBACCO TAX DIVISION, UNITED STATES TREASURY

AND

DE PARTMENT -=

111..

INVESTIGATION CONDUOTED TO DETERMINE POSSIBLE

SIGNIFICANCE OF FIVE GALLON HYDRAULIC OIL CAN

RECOVERED AT ALLEGHENY VALLEY AIRPORT,

NOVEMBER 5, 1958

IV. INTERVIEWS OF WITNESSES AT ALLEGHENY VALLEY

AIRPORT, RUSSELETON, PA.

V. LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS OF POSSIBLE

"EVIDENTIARY VALUE

VI. MOTIONS FILED BY SUBJECTS' ATTORNEYS IN UNITED

STATES DISTRICT COURT,

WESTERN DISTRICT OF

PENNSYLVANLA, PITTSBURGH

VII. JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299 -

VIII. SAMUEL, MANNARINO, FBI #115840

IX. NORMAN ROTHMAN, FBI #152585B

X. STUART

SUTOR, FBI #599730 --

5

6

9

16

18

18

26

35

35•

= 2 =

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 25

---

## Page 26

PO 52-1687

DETAILS:

I. BASIS FOR SEARCH AND SEIZURE OF TWIN-ENGINE BEECHCRAFT #N7165-C

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 26

---

## Page 27

FD-302 (Rex. 12-20-57)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG TION

INTERVIEW REPORT

Date _5/1/59

1958, after he had obtained permission from STUART SUTOR

to search the twin Beech airplane SUTOR had flown into the

Morgantown Airport, he started toward the airplane but saw

a

plane approaching the airport at that time, and waited

to see if that plane was carrying the Border Patrol Agent

he had been told was

Corporal

SNODGRASS stated that he had not searched the twin Beech,

but had started to the twin Beech to do so when he saw the

other plane approaching.

He advised that when the plane

he had seen approaching landed, it taxied up near the twin

Beech, and he went to meet it.

He stated that Agent

GROOTENDORST of the Border Patrol got out of the plane

and

identified himself, and it is his, Corporal SNODGRASS',

recollection that

he and GROOTENDORST went directly over

to the twin Beech at that time.

Corporal SNODGRASS advised

he was unable to recall whether he and GROOTENDORST

merely looked in through the window at that time, or whether

they actually checked the cargo, but he does recall

that Agent GROOTENDORST was immediately satisfied that

the cargo was guns. He advised that he and GROOTENDORST

only remained at the plane for a moment and then went

into the airport manager's office where SUTOR was being

held. He advised that GROOTENDORST busied himself about

arrangements to secure the twin Beech airplane and put a

guard on the plane, and also with arrangements about taking

SUTOR into Morgantown for interview, etc.

Interview with Corporal WALTER B, SNODGRASS

File # Pittsburgh 52-1687

4/22/59 at Morgantown, W. Va.

by Special Agent

VERNON E. DANIELS/ be

Date dictated 4/27/59

Property of FBl - This report is loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside she

agency to which loaned.

4.

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 27

---

## Page 28

PG 52-1687

II. EXAMINATION OF WEAPONS RECOVERED AT MORGANTOWN, WEST VIRGINIA,

AIRPORT, NOVEMBER, 1958, BY ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX DIVISION,

UNITED STATES TREASURY DEPARTMENT

PAUL A. HANKINS, JR., Assistant Supervisor in Charge,

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division (ATTD), United States Treasury

Department, Newark, New Jersey, by letter dated April 7, 1959,

made available results of an examination of firearms recovered

on November 4,1958, conducted by PAUL A. MAXWEL, Special

Investigator, and GLENN W. BURNER, Investigator, on March 27,

1959, in the office of the United States Marshal JOHN BARR,

Fairmont, W.Va.

Results of the

examination are as follows:

"Two 50 cal. air cooled machine guns, serial no. 1983802

and 1983927, U. S. Army, Artillery Branch Insignia, on bottom

of frame under breach.

have Insignia.

"Two electrical solenoid's for firing mechanism of 50

cal. machine guns, marked Air Forces, U.S.Army.

"Twenty Ml Garand Rifles,

with U.S. Army, Artillery

Branch Insignia as follows:

Fifteen U.S. Carbines, Ml with

U.S. Army,_ Artillery and/or

Ordinance Branch Insignia, as

follows:

Bottom Stock

3438148

1306267

81535

379028

229697

103130

2666598

1260625

Left Side of Stock

Ordinance Branch

Artillery Branch

1832400

Insignia on barrel. Insignia on stock.

2789345

1866149

1861314

3749668

4078452

502359

3614441

4539899

5029744

2990102

422811

6460221

3159921

1108958

340856

3535883

REVIEWSD BY SATISFE TASK FORCE

2565053

82223

ON 1/7/98

I RELEASE IN FULL p 5, 6

- 5 -

RELEASE IN PART.

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 28

---

## Page 29

PG: 52-1687

cont'd

Bottom Stock

Left Side of Stock Ordinance Branch

Artillery Branch

Insignia on barrel. Insignia on stock.

4496759

353065

1834010

3812004

3614498

2030479

898773

4951403

"The above Listed firearms have the Insignia stamped

into the metal or wood. No other marks found on the balance of

the seized weapons."

III. INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED TO DETERMINE POSSIBLE SIGNIFICANCE

OF FIVE GALLON HYDRAULIC OIE CAN RECOVEREDAT ALLEGHENY

VALLEY AIRPORT, NOVEMBER 52 1958

-6-

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 29

---

## Page 30

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SAG, PITTSBURCH (52-1687)

FROM: SA RICHARD: GORDON DOUCE

DATE: May 6, 1959

•DICTATED:

May 4, 1959

SUBJECT:

STUART SUTOR; ET AL

TOP; ITSE; FIA; NM; CONSPIRACY

ANTHONY REMICH, owner of the Remich Flying Service and the

Allegheny Valley Airport, Russellton, Pa., was interviewed

at his place of business

on April 29, 1959, by SAS RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE and THOMAS C. FORSYTH, III.

At the outset REMICH was advised that he was not required

to make any statements and that any statements he might

make could be used against him in a court of law.

He was

also advised that. he could consult with an attorney as to

the advisability of participating in an interview with

Special Agents of the FBI.

REMICH then examined a photograph of the five gallon low

viscosity ofl can found at the Allegheny Valley Airport

on November 5;

1958, and stated that he had never seen

that type of U,S. Army container on his property before.

REMICH pointed out however that it is not uncommon for

men assigned to the Battery "D" Launching Site adjoining

the airport runway. to dispose of oil cans by throwing them

over the fence onto his property.

In conclusion REMICH authorized SAS DOUCE and FORSYTH to

search the end of airport runway adjoining the Battery.

"D" Launching Site.

RGD: cmg

7

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 30

---

## Page 31

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687) DATE: May 6, 1959

FROM

SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

DICTATED:

May 4, 1959

SUBJECT:

STUART SUTOR; ET AL

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

On April 29, 1959, SAS RICHARD GORDON DOUCE and THOMAS G.

FORSYTH,

III, conducted a search along the end of the

runway at the Allegheny Valley Airport, Russellton, pa.,

adjoining the Battery "D" Launching Site, 74AAA Missile

Battation, Russellton, Pa.

The end of the runway was observed to be separated from

the Battery "D" Launching Site by a ten foot wire fence.

During a search of the area the following empty

containers bearing U.S. Army property markings were

observed lying on the runway near the fence:

2 - one gallon hydraulic oil cans.

5 - two gallon paint cans:

3 - one gallon anti-freeze cans.

RGD: cmg

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 31

---

## Page 32

PG 52-1687

Second Lieutenant ROBERT P. RHINEHART, Battery D,

744th: AAA Missile Battalion, Russeliton,

7959, advised that enlisted men assigned to the Battery D

on April 29,

launching site are instructed not to throw used oil cans over

the fence separating the launching site from the Allegheny

Valley runway.

some of the enlisted men,

periodically throw used oil and paint cans over the fence onto

separating dea, howeve cleaning

He added, however, that contrary to instructions

while cleaning the launching site,

the runway.

The Latent Fingerprint Section of the Identification

Division, on April 10, 49292

advised that the fingerprints of

GABRIEL MANNARINO, FBI #854850, SAMUEL MANNARINO, FBI #115840,

and NORMAN ROTHMAN, FBI #1525O5B, were not identica. with the

latent impression developed on the five gallon hydraulic 01l

can recovered at the Allegheny Valley Airp Pt on November 5,

1958.

IV. INTERVIEWS OF WITNESSES AT ALLEGHENY VALLEY AIRPORT,

RUSSELLTON, PA.

It is recalled that investigation conducted in

April, 1959,

established that ALVIN FISH of 765 Freeport Road,

Creighton,

Pa., was helping Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS OCCELLI set

tile inthe kitchen of their home near the Allegheny Valley

Airport during the latter part of October, 1958, when a young,

unidentified man walked into the OCCELLI home and requested

to use the telephone.

The investigation established that the unknown

individual placed a lengthy toll call, presumably to Pittsburgh,

and left the house without paying the OCCELLIs.

While in the

OCCELLI home, the individual mentioned that he had just arrived

on a airplane at the Allegheny Valley Airport.

When he

left, the OCCELLIs and FISH noticed that he had difficulty

starting a small black foreign sports car that he said was

left for him at the airport.

- 9 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 32

---

## Page 33

PG 52-1687

It has been previously noted that VICTOR CARLUCCI

owns a black English "prefect" sports car bearing Pennsalvania

license #K44085, and registered to his wife, MINNIE CARLUCCI,

201 Highland Avenue, New Kensington.

- 10 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 33

---

## Page 34

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO :

SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

FROM: SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

DATE: 5/26/59

DICTATED ON: 5/19/59

SUBJECT: STUART SUTOR, ET AL

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

The North Pittsburgh Telephone Company, Gibsonia

Pa., on May 18, 1959, made available the following record

of toll calls charged to THOMAS J. OCCELLI, 1525 Woodmont

Avenue, Arnold. Pa., subscriber to COlfax 5-2825 during

September - November, 1958:

Date (year 1958)

Number Called

September

22

33

September 25

22

5

5644

4

September 28

September

29

33

22

5

5704

9103

2121

September

30

47

1

5573

October 2

MU

3

2130

October

• 3

October

7

8230

October 12

3

3104

4941

October 13

33

7

October 13

3994

October 13

47

1

5573

47

5573

October 14

October 14

October

• 14

October

15

October

15

October

16

October

17

22

minimon

5644

5644

8230

5573

596

5573

9103

October

2

October

23

23

47

2121

October

October

26

mm

5573

9103

1845

RGD/vmm

11

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 34

---

## Page 35

PG 52-1687

Date (year 1958)

November

2

November

November

November

November

November

November

November

November

10

November

10

November

10

November

12

November

13

November

13

November

13

November

15

November

18

November 18

November 18

November

18

November 19

November 20

November

20

Number Called

: 274 7867

47: 1

5573

5

9103

mmon

10014

U5UO

3104

3104

9044

7336

3571

3595

9103

7867

4063

9103

9103

9103

8800

8800

4

8800

5573

9983

3104

8555

The foregoing information is available only upon the

issuance of a subpoena duces

tecum directed to EULA POFF,

Commercial Supervisor, North Pittsburgh Telephone Co.,

Gibsonia, Pa.

12

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 35

---

## Page 36

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

United States Government

TO : SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

FrOm : SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

Subject: STUART SUTOR; et al

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

Dictated:

Date: 6/4/59

6/3/59

The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania on June 2, 1959,

identified subscribers

called from Colfax 5-2825 during

September - November, 1958, as follows:

Edison

5-5644

5-9103

5-8230

5-1845

9-9044.

7-3104

7-3994

7-3596

7-3571

7-3595

ERMINIO IANNUZZI, 306 Iroquois Avenue,

Arnold, pa.

JOHN O. BIRTY, 1527 Woodmont Avenue,

New

Kensington, Pa.

JOHN ALBERTA, 326 Iroquois Avenue,

Arnold, Pa.

Mitchell Electric Company, 509 Ridge

Avenue, New Kensington, Pa.

No record.

RAY STIFFLER (Building Contractor),

Leechburd Road, New Kensington, Pa.

GEORGE P. CAMPBELL, 1552 Constitution

Boulevard, New Kensington, Pa.

JOHN W. HUNGER, 1725 - 5th Avenue,

New Kensington, Pa.

West

Penn Power Company (Business

office),

2127 Kenneth Avenue, New Kensington, Pa.

JOHN W. HUNGER (as above).

HLS/mmk

13

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 36

---

## Page 37

PG 52-1687

Broad

4-7867

4-8800

4-9983

CHARLES F. HODEL,

Cheswick, Pa. (Essential Serv.)

Harmar Drive,

No record.

Radko Auto Wreckers, Springdale Hollow

Road, Springdale, Pa.

Academy

4-4063

4-8555

6-0500

4-5704

4-2121

FRANK GONGOLA, 121 West 9th Avenue,

Tarentum, Pa.

Tarentum Auto Wreckers, Bullcreek

Road, Tarentum, Pa.

No record.

GLENN DOUGHERTY, 1049 - 8th Avenue,

Brackenridge, Pa.

Valley Daily News (Want Ad Department),

4th Avenue, Tarentum,

Pa.

Grant

1-5573

WILLIAM W. MATSON, 1405 Park Building,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Hazel

1-4941

(Indent under Montrose 1-5100), EDWARD

BLITZSTEIN (Dentist). | Residence:

5643

Beacon Street, Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

Museum

3-2130

Dr. JOHN C. EWING, West Penn Hospital,

Friendship Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

14

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 37

---

## Page 38

PG 52-1687

walnut

1-7336

JAMES HUMPHREYS, 23 Rhodes Avenue,

Pittsburgh 20,

Fa. (Disconnected

December 23, 1958)

The above information is available upon the issuance of a

subpoena duces

tecum directed to ROBERT N. EMBREE,

Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, Pa.

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 38

---

## Page 39

PG 52-1687

V. LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS OF POSSIBLE EVIDENTIARY VALUE

during the period October, 1958, to January, 1959:

- 16 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 39

---

## Page 40

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

DATE:

May 8, 1959

FROM:

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III DICTATED: May 6, 1959

SUBJECT:

STUART SUTOR: et al

TEP; ITSP; PRA; NM;

on May 1, 1959, a source at the Bell Telephone Company of

Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, Pa., advised that the following

are the subscribers to the indicated telephone numbers:

SYcamore 3-5372

FRANK STRETCEK

7941 Saltzburg Road

Monroeville,

pa.

VAlley 4-5958

ANTHONY P. MEROLA

143-B Watson Drive

Court 1-8940

Ellis Hotel

2044 Centre Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

EDison 5-6904

City Beverage Company

307-18th Street,

Arnold, Pa.

EDison 5-3724

CHARLES H. VAUGHAN

325 Freeport Road,

New Kensington, Pa.

Court 1-8352

Penn-Sheraton Hotel

Pittsburgh, Pa.

(lobby pay phones)

EDison 5-2850

LOUIS C. CERASO, M.D:,

1732 Alcoa Drive

New Kensington,

Fe i

The foregoing information 1s available only upon the issuance

of a subpoena duces tecum directed to ROBERT N. EMBREE, Bell

Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, 201 Stanwix Street,

Pittsburgh.

TGF: cmg

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 40

---

## Page 41

PG 52-1687

VI. MOTIONS FILED BY SUBJECTS' ATTORNEYS IN UNITED STATES

DISTRICT COURT, WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA,

PITTSBURGH

Assistant United States Attorney DANIEL J. SNYDER

by satects 1g, advised the following motions were filed

attorneys in united states District court, Westerr

District of Pennsylvania, on April 17, 1959:

Motion for Bill of Particulars

filed by Attorneys VINCENT M. CASEY and

VITO J. RICH on behalf of DANIEL HANNA,

VICTOR CARLUCCI and JOSEPH GIORDANO

Motions for B1ll of Particulars

filed by Attorneys MAX LURIE of Miamt,

Florida, and VINCENT M. CASEY, Pittsburgh,

on behalf of NORMAN ROIHMAN, JOSEPH MEROLA,

and STUART SUTOR

Motion to Quash Indictment returned by

Federal Grand Jury, Western District of

Pennsylvania, filed by Attorney MURRAY

GOODMAN of Miami on behalf of JOSEPH MEROLA

Motions for Inspection and Appraisal of

Firearms Seized at Morgantown, W.Va., on

November 4, 1958, filed by Attorney VINCENT M.

CASEY on behalf of CARLUCCI, HANNA and GIORDANO

Motions to Suppress Intercepted Telephone

Communications filed by Attorneys MAX LURIE

and VINCENT M. CASEY on behalf of all

defendants

Petition and Motion to Suppress Firearms

Seized at Morgantown on November 4,1958,

filed by Attorney MAX LURIE on behalf of SUTOR

VII. JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299

- 18 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 41

---

## Page 42

FD -302 (Rev. 12-20-57)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

INTERVIEW REPORT,

Date

May 11, 1959

EUGENE A ChorUl, Intelligence Officer, United

States Border Fatro, d9th and Grant Streets, Lampa,

Florioa, stated that when ne was previousty interviewed by

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS he mentioned that Border Patrol suspicions

had increased concerning the Beechcraft plane, Serial

Number N7165-C, when Information was received from trooper

SKILMAN, Pennsylvania State Police, that JOSEPH MEROLA of

mams was laentilled as naving made a trip with the piot.

of this plane October 24, 1958, because of previous Information

making MEROLA suspect in gun smuggling activities. He

explained the name of MEROLA had first, come to attention in

January or February, 1958, in connection with an incident

Involving a boat called "MENACE."

CHAPUT recalled that the "MENACE" was a 28 foot

boat, United States Coast Guard Humber 1801491, which went

aground with a hole in her bottom near lower Matacumbe, Key,

Florida, on January 31, 1958. Six men went ashore from the

boat.

and were seen by JAck wArson; united states rian and

Wildlite service, Tavernier, Forida,

who reported the matter

to the Border Patrol.

Three of the

men were observed to

catch a north bound bus toward Miami.

The other three

originally headed south but later returned to the vicinity

of the boat where they were seen by Border Patrol Inspector

ANTHONY PROVENZO, who identified them as CESAR VEGA, HECTOR

DUARE and HUMBERTO WEBSTER. PROVENZO was able to identify

them because all three had previously been arrested by

Unitdd States Customs and Border Patrol at Big Pine Key

& board

the boat "PHILOMAR IIT" as they were attempting to

launch an armed expedition to Cuba, and all three were

out

on bond at the time of this incident, January 31, 1958.

CHAPUT said PROVENZO and possibly other Border

Patrol officers searched the "MENACE" but found no arms

aboard. They did find three 55 gallon fuel drums on the

boat as well as large quantities of food and a suitcase full

of brass weights bearing the inscription "Cuba Rebelde", which

weights he understood (source not recalled) were commonly

used by the Cuban rebels to hurl through plate glass windows

of "enemy" establishments. He said there was also a report

TOTAL DENIAL

Interview with

EUGENE A. CHA PUT

RELEASE IN PART

PG 52-1687

File #

_MM 52-3290

Date dictated

5/5/59

on 5/5/59

_ at

Tampa, Florida

by Special Agent H. K. RUTHERFORD: J1t

RELBASE IT FUL

19,20

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the

agency to which loaned.

- 19 -

REVIEWED BY ISSEE TASK FORCE

ON 1/26/98 R$

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 42

---

## Page 43

MM 52-3290

at the time, although he could not identify the source,

that the men had been

seen tossing something overboard before

they beached the "MENACE" and went ashore; however, he said

a search of the area failed to locate anything. He went

on to say the captain of the "MENACE" was one HANS GOSTA

MILTON, who claimed to have bought it about a week

previously at the Flagler Marina in Miant.

When questioned

by PROVENZO, MILTON denied knowing who the previous owner

of the boat was but said it may have been JOE MEROLA.

Asked about how he paid for the boat, MILTON said there

was an agreement for him to work it out on trips..

CHA PUT

said it is his recollection that the records of the Coast

Guard confirmed MEROLA's previous ownership of this boat.

CHA PUT said there were other instances where

MEROLA's name came up in connection with Cuban revolutionafy

activities, the details of which he does not now recall.

He said he does not recall any specific allegation of gun

running on MEROLA's part but the circumstances of his name

cropping up repeatedly caused him to be suspect.

20

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 43

---

## Page 44

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: SAC,. PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

FROM

SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

DATE: May 6, 1959

DICTATED: May 6, 1959

SUBJECT:

STUART SUTOR; et al

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

A source at the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania

on 5/5/59 advised the following calls were charged to

PEnhurst 1-7238, listed to ANDREW SIMS,

936 savannah,

Pittsburgh 21, Pa:, during October - November, 1958:

DATE

NUMBER CALLED

10/25/58

EDison 5-7571

10/26/58

EDison 5-7571

10/26/58

EN 2-5734 to

LEONARD GAINES

in New York from

JOE MAROLIA

10/26/58

BA 2-9856

10/26/58

BA 2-9856

10/26/58

BA 2-9856

11/3/58

NA 5-8177 (Mars, Pa.)

The above information is available only upon the issuance

of a subpoena duces tecum directed to Mr. ROBERT N.

EMBREE, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, 201

Stanwix St., Pittsburgh, Pa.

RGD: cmg

21

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 44

---

## Page 45

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

United States Government

TO: SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

DATE: 5/11/59

FROM: SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

DICTATED: 5/7/59

BE:

STUART SUTOR; ET AL

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

A source at the North Pittsburgh Telephone company,

Gibsonia,

Pa., on May T, 1959, identified

subscriber to unpublished

telephone Number NA

5-8177 as E. MEROLA, Three Degree Road,

R. D. Number 1, Mars, Pa.

The foregoing Information 1s available only upon the issuance

of a subpoena duces tecum directed to Miss EULA POFF,

Commercial Supervisor, North Pittsburgh Telephone Company,

Gibsonia, Pa.

RGD: bc

. 22

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 45

---

## Page 46

PG 52-1687

Investigation conducted to date has established

that telephone number, BA 2-9856, 1s a pay telephone in the

lobby of the Auld Hotel, Washington,

Pa., where STUART SUTOR

stayed from the afternoon of October 26, 1958, to the morning

of October 20, 1958, because he encountered bad weather

conditions after leaving the Allegheny Valley Airport and was

forced to land at the Washington, Pa., airport.

waS

made from JOE MEROLA's suite in the Warwick Hotel 1n

New York, New York, during September, 1950, person to person,

to "MARTIN" at Duquesne, Pa., telephone number HObart 6-6205.

The subscriber to the Hobart number has been previously

identified as FRANK BENNETT MARTIN, aged 69, father of

WAILACE H. MARTIN, 804 Crawford Street, Duquesne, Pa.

It is recalled that when interviewed by a Special

Agent of the FBI In March, 1959, FRANK BENNETT MARTIN stated

that he could not recall receiving a long distance telephone

call from New York City on September 21, 1958, but suggested

that the call may have been made to his son, WALLACE H. MARTIN,

aged 34, a business associate of WILLIAM DONOFRIO, proprietor.

of a burglar alarm business, in Mckeesport, Pa., known as

Silent Service.

The following Investigation was conducted to

determine the significance of the call from the Warwick Hotel

to the MARTIN residence on September 21, 1958:

23

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 46

---

## Page 47

OFFICE MEMORANDUM - United States Government

TO:

FROM:

RE:

SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

STOART SULOR

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

Date: 5/11/59

Dictated: 5/6/59

on May 6, 1959, WALLACE H. MARTIN, 804 Crawford

Street, Duquesne,

Pa,, was interviewed at his

place of employment,

The Silent Service, a burglar ädarm

concern lacated at 771 Clairton Boulevard, Pleasant H111S,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

At the beginning of the interview, MARTIN was

advised that he was not required to make any statements

and

that any statements he night make could be used against him

in a court of law.

He was told of his right to consult

with an attorney before. Joining in an interview with a

Special Agent of the FBI, and acknowledged that he

understood

his situation

and wanted to proceed with the

interview.

MARTIN advised that he is a 34 year-old bachelor

and partner in the Silent Service Burglar alarm enterprise

but considers his partnership a "side line" to obtain money

to write motion picture scripts and popular songs.

explained that he and his partner, WILLIAM DONORIO,

consider themselves to be promoters and that they spend a

great deal of time traveling throughout the Eastern part of

the United

states, particularly New York City.

A photograph of JOSEPH MEROLA of Miami, Florida,

waS

shown to MARTIN who immediately identified same as a

person he met through DONOFRIO at the Warwick Hotel 1a

New York City during the summer of 1958. MARTIN pointed

out that he could not be more specific regarding the date of

their meeting and stated that he could not recall the subject

of any conversation between DONOFRIO and MEROLA at the Warwick

Hotel.

RAV

aap

24

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 47

---

## Page 48

MARTIN stated that moreover he would prefer that

DONOFRIO answered any

questions regarding their conversations

since MEROLA appeared to be a personad friend of DONOFRIO.

MARTIN emphasized that he could not

recall receiving

a long distance telephone call at his home

on

September 21,

1958, from the warwick Hotel but added that If such a call

was made it was undoubtedly made with the purpose of contacting

DONOFRIO.

At this point in the interview. MARtIN stated that

he did not prefer to discuss the matter further except in

DONOFRIO's presence.

he stated, however, that to the best of

his knowledge any contact between MEROLA and DONOFRIO would

definitely pertain to some legitimate business enterprise:

since DONOFRIO would not participate in any criminal undertaking.

MARTIN was also shown a photograph of STUART SUTOR

of Hialeah, Florida, but stated that he was not acquainted with

SUTOR and could furnish no information concerning him.

In conclusion, MARTIN stated that he had secured the

services of JAMES A. ASHTON, Attorney at Law, with offices

In Pitesburgh, Pa•s who also represents DONOrRIO, and that he

would not discuss

the matter further except in the presence

of his attorney.

-

25

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 48

---

## Page 49

PG 52-1687

Following is the identification record of JOSEPH

MEROLA, FBI #4989299:

Contributor

Name and

number

Arrested

Or

received

Charge

fingerprints

Marine

Joseph Raymond

Merola #329620

Allegheny Co

Det Bureau

Pittsburgh Pa

Allegheny Co

Det Bureau

Pittsburgh Pa

USCG

Joseph Merola

#5=54747

Joseph Merola

#5-54747

Joseph Raymond

Merola

#L-6256-LIC

PD Miami Beach

Joseph Raymond

Fla

Merola

#A-29144

11-29-41

12-5-47

11-17-47

FP

1-21-57

4-26-58

USM Miami

Fla

Joseph R.

3-23-59

Merola #827-M-Cr

Disposition

misd

false

pretense

burg-

safe

USM Pgh Pa

Joseph Raymond 4-9-59

Merola

#Cr Pgh Pa 15750 •

DC unsat - 4-3-58

Isfactory nolle prosse

account of

self

transpor-

tation of

stolen fire-

arms in

Interstate

Comm

Viol Natl

stolen prop

act receiving

& concealing

rifles

VIII. SAMUEL MANNARINO, FBI #115840

Records in the Office of the Prothonotary, Westmoreland

KLaBE, JK., on January

en ra conta ricate fabe, or she purpose

that on April 2, 1943,

for the purpose of buying scrap,

specifically iron, steel and other metals. Partners in this

business enterprise were identified as SAMUEL MANNARINO and

WILLIAM SAMS.

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 49

---

## Page 50

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

*

United States Government

TO: SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

DATE: 5/11/59

FROM: SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

DICTATED: 5/7/59

RE:

STUART SUTOR; ET AL

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania on

May 5, 1959, advised from records that the following long

distance telephone calls emanated from MOntrose 1-0525

listed to the Ken Iron and Steel Company of New Kensington,

Pa., during the period October through December, 1958:

DATE

10/2/58

NUMBER

PERSON CALLED

JUD

2-7642

New

York

WILLIE SAMS

(collect)

10/10/58

JE 4-4872

Miami

10/14/58

FARBER

(collect)

CLYDE GURNEY

10/14/58

10/14/58

10/14/58

10/15/58

2-3511

Linesville, Pa.

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

JE 8-4397

Miami

NORMAN ROTHMAN

JEROME

10/16/58

10/16/58

10/17/58

UN 5-9881

Miami

UN 6-9336

Miami

' UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

MEROLA

Room #313

NICK - Collect

to SAMMY

RGD: be

27

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 50

---

## Page 51

PG 52-1687

DATE

10/17/58

10/18/58

10/20/58

10/20/58

•10/20/58

10/20/58

10/20/58

10/21/58

10/21/58

10/22/58

10/23/58

10/25/58

10/27/58

10/30/58

NUMBER

ST 3-5454

Washington, D. C.

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

VI -90260

Montreal

Canada

VI - 90260

Montreal

Canada

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

#3100

Huntington, Indiana

CE 6-8400

Chicago, Illinois

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

GL 2-1624

Canton, Ohio

JE 8-6631

Miami

TU. 8-4932

DR. PESSOLANO

LO 368

Miami

I0 368

Miami

LD or LO 372

Miami

- 28*

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 51

PERSON CALLED

Reservation Dept.

JACK CROSO (crossed out)

REPE

WILLIAM

ALLEN

M. GORDON

KERNAN

Collect for

SAMMY

SAMS

(collect)

WM. SANDS

(collect)

NICK

Room 409

---

## Page 52

PG 52-1687

DATE

11/3/58

11/3/58

11/3/58

11/4/58

11/5/58

11/6/58

11/6/58

11/11/58

PERSON CALLED

SAMS

(collect)

WM. SAMS

(collect)

SAMS

(collect)

MANN

(collect)

GEORGE

(collect)

BILL DILL

(collect to

SAM)

GORDON

(collect)

GORDON

(collect)

11/13/58

11/13/58

11/14/58

11/18/58

11/18/58

11/21/58

NUMBER

LO 368

Miami

LO. 372

Miami

LO 372

Miami

JE 2-9175

Miami

WI 7-9143

North Dock, Florida

#534

Warren, Pa.

3100 .

Huntington, Indiana

FR: 1-3966

JEROME

Miami

JE 4-2721

Miami

UN 5-9252

Miami

BL 8-7980

Monongahela,

Pa.

Warren, Pa.

#534

MO 1-2511

Miami

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

29

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 52

---

## Page 53

PG 52-1687

DATE

11/24/58

11/25/58

11/25/58

11/25/58

11/26/58

11/26/58

NUMBER

Warren,

Pa.

#534

Warren, Pa.

#534

HE 4-5500

Chicago, Illinois

#4201

weedville, Pa.

JE: 4-4134

UN 6-4030

Miami Beach

PERSON CALLED

LEO GAY

SAM

(collect)

11/28/58

#4201

Weedville, Pa.

SANDS

(collect)

11/28/58

TI 6-6645

Beaver Falls

12/1/58

#9807

SAMS

Cumberland, Md.

(collect)

The foregoing information is available only upon the issuance

of a subpoena duces tecum directed to ROBERT N. EMBREE, Bell

ROBERT NO

Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, 201 Stanwix Street, Pittsburgh,

30

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 53

---

## Page 54

OFFICE MEMORANDUM - United States Government

TO:

SAG, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

Date:

6/1/59

FROM:

SA WILLIAM R. WALL

Dictated: 5/29/59

RE:

STUART SUTOR

TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY

Pa.,

telephone Triden 6-6645, was interviewed on May al

150 Clearview Street, Beaver Falls,

1959, at his place of employment, Berkemans Clothing store,

Beaver Falls, regarding the significance of a telephone call

to his home on November 20, 1958, from the Ken Iron and

o. 20, 358, 29 the

Steel Company, New Kensington, Pa.

At the outset ZEIDEN was advised that he did not

have to make any statements and that any statement he might

make could be used against him in a court of law.

He was

also advised of his right to consult with an attorney and

indicated that he fully understood his position and would

proceed with the interview.

ZEIDEN advised that he could not account for any

call which might have been placed to his residence from the

Ken

• Iron and Steel Company of from anyone who might have

had access to that telephone.

ZEIDEN pointed out that on

November 28,1958, he worked all day in the store abalsted

by his wife.

said that he was sure that the call

must have been billed to his telephone through an error on

the part of the telephone company personnel, and that 1f

such

a call was placed to his home it must have been someone

calling a wrong number.

In the presence of SA WALL, ZEIDEN telephoned his

wife and asked her if she

could account for any call received

at her home on November 28, after which he stated that his

wife did not remember any such call.

WRW:aap

31

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 54

---

## Page 55

PA 52-1687

ZEIDEN promised to consider the matter further and

added that 1f he was able to remember the telephone call at

a later date he would Immediately notify the FBI.

The following background information and physioal

description 1s based upon observation and interview:

Name

LOUIS ZEIDEN

(Formerly ZEIDENSCHNEIDER)

Race

Sex

Age

Born

White

Male

44

October 28,1914,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Height

Weight

Ha1r

Eyes

Wife

5'10"

165

Brown

•Hazel

RUTH (FRIEDMAN) ZEIDEN,

Born March 3,1917,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Children

BARBARA ELLEN, aged 17

HOWARD MICHAML, aged 13

Brothers

SAUL ZEIDEN, aged 48,

1248 Malvern Avenue,

Pittsburgh

AVenUe,

Sister

Address

Previous address

LOS AngeleS, California

ESTHER KLAHR, aged 51,

5427 Baywood Street,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

156 Clearview Street,

Beaver Falls, Pa.

615 West 10th Street,

Erie, Pa.

32

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 55

---

## Page 56

PG 52-1687

The Baltimore Office of the FBI on May 25,1959,

advised that Cumberland, Maryland, telephone number

9807,

called from the Ken Iron and Steel Company on December 1,

1958, ls a non-existent telephone number.

It is recalled that during an interview with

Special Agents of the FBI in Miami, Florida, on March 5,

1959, JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299, advised that SAMUEL

MANNARINO was in Miami Beach, Florida, from approximately

October 28, 1958, to about November 4,1958, and probably

stopped at

the Seagull Hotel in

Miami Beach.

33

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 56

---

## Page 57

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, PITTSBURGH (52-1687)

SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

STUART SUTOR

TGP; ITSP; FEA; NM; CONSPIRACY

DATE:

DICTATED:

6/3/59

5/28/59

The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh,

Pa., on may 21, 1959, identiided the following subseribers

In New Kensington,

Pa., who received long distance calls

from Room No. 409 of the Sea Gull Hotel, Miami Beach,

Florida, during the period October 24, 1958, to November 7,

1958:

EDison 9-9209

(semi-public pay station)

Laetus Club

940 5th Avenue

(2nd floor)

Pittsburgh

EDiSon 5-8897

FRANK GUZ

168 7th Extension

The foregoing information 1s available upon the issuance of

a subpoena duces teeum directed to Mr. ROBERT EMBREE,

Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh.

HLS : erm

34

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 57

---

## Page 58

PG 52-1687

It is noted that investigation by the Miami Office

Hotel was occupied by SAL MANN of Brooklyn, New York, from

Investigation in Miami has also disclosed that several

Long distance telephone calls were placed from Room 409

while occupied by MANN to the home of VICTOR CARLUCCI in

New Kensington and also to NORMAN ROTHMAN In Havana, Cuba.

IX. NORMAN ROTHMAN; FBI #152585B

Following 1s the identification record of NORMAN

ROTHMAN, FBI #152585B:

Contributor

Name and Number,

of fingerprints

Arrested or

received

PD, Miami Beach,

Fla.

Norman Rothman

#A -12890

1-29-48

Charge Disposition

vag 1nv. 2-2-48,

dism.

USM Miams Fla

Norman Rot hman

#846-M-Cr

3-27-59

National

Firearms

Act

USM Pgh Pa

Norman Rothman

#Cr. Pgh. Pa./

15750

4-9-59

vio1 Nat

Stolen Prop

Act, receiving

& concealing

rifles

X.

STUART SUTOR, FBI #59973D

A review of a photostatic copy of STUART SUTOR'S

personal notebook, obtained by the United States Marshal's Office

In Fairmont, W.Va., when SULOR was taken into custody on

November 4,1958, disclosed the following names of associates

and/or acquaintances in California, Florida, New York and

Washington, =D.C.:

UIMS

REVIEWED BY 7B1/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

-5/1192

RIG

- 35 -

# RELEASE IN FULE p 35-41

• RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 58

---

## Page 59

PG 52-1687

Miami

VIRGIL KUTSCHER

Whitney 5-6649

(FNU) MASER

Amherst 6-9937

•(FNU) HAMMON

Albine 3-2997

PAUL (LNU)

Amherst 6-7657

Chief REESE

Westport 5-3714

Chief MADDOX

Westport 5-3138

Airbase - Westport 5-9326

Ex. 281

NELSON (?)

650 N. 6th

Ave.

Alpine 8-9196

(no name)

Woodland

4-6263

(FNU) DE MAIO

Highland 6-2454

ROGER BEANE

Crestwood 4-2702

(CR 44-144)?

ED FRENCH

Yellowstone 7-4470

LOU MIHELIC

3610 E. Meadowbrook Ave.

Amherst 6-1996

BILL BAILLEY

Westport 5-3757 or 5-3957

AL FRANKLIN

Westport 5-3264

- 56 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 59

---

## Page 60

PG 52-1687

Base - (Prob.

U. S. Naval

Base)

Westport 5-9326 (Ext.

Comm. Parady - Ext.

243)

256

Airinco

PO Box 23

Int. Airport

Newton: 5-0966 Miami

GRIFF (LNU)

Alpine 3-3716

Bestuccia

AM 6-5398

MrS. (FNU) MILONAS

6115 N. W. 110 St.

TU 8-4116

Miami

FRANK ENGLERT

TU 7-3486

(Phone A8334 7411 - Havana)

TU 8-4646 - Officers Club

RALPH E. ADAMS

Box 306 - International Airport

LU

3-2252

IRA SULLIVAN

2981 Key Largo

MO 1-4049

(AIr Force TU 8-9531 Ext. 142)

(FNU) MOULTON

NE 5-0894

(FNU) MENESES

TV 7-6511

WAIT SCHRADER

2939 N..W. E3ra Ave.

NE 5-9073

FR 4-1182

- 37 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 60

---

## Page 61

PG 52-1687

JOE CAMILLERI

202 Plaza Bldg.

HI 8-2306

R. H. SMITH (C-82's)

TU 7-4406

M. O. or M. G. FRANCISCO

1325 S. W. 21 Terr.

FR 4-5937

VAN HIES

HI 8-2020

Golden Ear

TU 8-9205

ART RUBIN

1306 Pacific Bldg.'

TU 8-1361

FR 1-8773

BOB CRAIG

PL 7-2475

POBIGELCH

(1llegiole) S. W. Tth st.

Castillo - HI 4-7260

Mr • DIAZ

Golden wing corp.

2151 S. W. 2lst Terr.

(FNU) HIGGINS

TU 7-0557

no name)

(BR 5-2592)

Orlando, Florida. (3)

REGINA (LNU)

TU 8-8634

MO 7-9200

-30

-

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 61

---

## Page 62

PG 52-1687

CHICK FREDERICKS

TU 8-9022

Davie, Florida

R. E. ADAMS

Ludlow 3-2252

Hialeah, Florida

MED CHAPMAN

731 E. 6 Place

TU 7-2997

Fort Lauderdale, Florida

EARL JOINSON

JA 2-9223

JA 3-9807

Burbank, California

J. H. CLARK

1321 N. Edison Blvd.

(Center Section)

Los Angeles, California

DICK JOHNSTONE

CItrus 2-3003

JIM CLARK

Phone Thornwall 5-1010

Riverside, California

JACK RITTER

3564 Lou Ella Avenue

(Corner 3rd Ave. and Roosevelt)

Overland 6-3360

Pacoima, California

S. T. HELDERBRAND

9355 Dorrington Place

c/O ELMER SPAHR

SY 5-7920

- 39 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 62

---

## Page 63

PO 52-1687

New York City

T. A. OLSEN

#3 Tappen Dr.

Huntington Station

Long Island

Hamilton 3-0537

LUIS MEDINA

251 N. W. 49 Ave.

MT 6-2158

Merrick Electronics

166-08 Douglas Ave.

Jamaica, 33, Long Island

Hempstead, New York

DAN HONOROFE

250 Fulton Ave.

Ivanhoe: 3-9540

Washington, D.C.

WALTER S. GABLER

1028 Conn. Ave., N.W.

GEORGE E. ALLEN

World Center Bldg.

Air Carr. Serv. Corp.

1742 & St.; N. W.

(ED LYNN - Mr. STOVER)

Comm. WIESEKS

Bureau Supplies & Accounts

Liberty 5-6700

• (Ext. 618-59)

- 40 -

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 63

---

## Page 64

PG 52-1687

A further review of the contents of SUTOR's

notebook disclosed the following aircraft registration numbefs

and expense account notations for taxi fares:

Aircraft Registration Numbers

N-9531-C (46685)

N-9532-C (46666)

N-9533-C (64042)

N-7333-C

N-7442-6(46682)

N-7443-6 (46654)

N-7444-C (46686)

N-9817-F (# 44-7321)

N-9818-F (# 43-47018)

"Taxis"

"$1.50 to airport - Miami

$1.35 Limo - New York

$1.00 to hotel

$1.00 to IND Consul

$1.00 to IND Consul

$1.00 to terminal

$1.35 to airport"

41

NW 68486 Docld:32331964 Page 64

---

