# docid-32327746

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90065-10032

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 174-689-52

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68486 Date: 12.02-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO : • HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/21/1968

9

BOMBING MEXICAN CONSULATE

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

i NW 68486 Docid:32327746 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

NY 174-612

NY 174-613

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE

on 4/29/68, MM 1280-C, who is well informed

concerning some Cuban exiles in

the Miami area, advisea

frequently and is a known associate of HECTOR DUARTE.

JUAN GARCIA CARDENAS, aKa. Chavo,

and his brother, BRUNO

GARCIA CARDENAS, are Close to HECTOR DUARTE and have a

reputation for the use of violence.

Two establishments in New York City which are

frequented by such persons as the GARCIA brothers, HECTOR

CORNILLOT and HECTOR DUARTE, are La Loma Restaurant on

Amsterdam Avenue between West 79th Street, and La Concha

Restaurant in the immediate vicinity of La Loma on West

79th Street.

The owner of La Loma is an individual named

CASTRO who is a friend of HECTOR DUARTE.

The owner of la

Muneco"is the brother of ARNALDO MARQUEZ, aka "HI

, a notorious gangster in cuban circles.

on 4/16/00, JOSE DIAL, PSI (protect)s Miami, Who

frequents the El Marino Restaurant, operated by JUAN GARCIA

CARDENAS and other members of his lamily, aavised that the

GARCIAS have a brother, NESTORGARCIA CARDENAS, in New York

who operates a clothing store

and they also have a restaurant

in New York believed called "Faro de Sagua"

HECTOR

DUARTE, who is involved in narcotics traffic, is reportedly

engaged to ISABEL GARCIA, sister of JUAN and BRUNO GARCIA.

FLas

On 4/25/68, OSCAR OLIVAICANTU, 1460 Northwest

37th Street, Miami, advised that he is a member of the

Cuban exile organization Brigade 2506.

He first heard.

about Cuban Power about one month ago from a Cuban known

SECRET

COVER PAGE

cuba

Me: bac

.Co

NW 68486 Docld:32327746 Page 2

---

## Page 3

COMFIGENTIAL

NY 174-612

NY 174-613

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

as "El Banco" whom he described as a white Cuban male, with

dark complexion, five feets "El Banco" drives

two inches tall, 140 pounds,

fats black nair

-balding.

Studebaker automobile which bears New York license tag.

OLIVA did not know where

"El Banco" works or lives.

He first met "El Banco" in the office öf Brigade 2506

in Miami®

"El Banco" told OLIVA that he was a representative

of Cuban Power and that the group needed OLIVA's help to

conduct a raid against cuba.

OLIVA was of the opinion that

"El Banco"

seen a mia i formation contes tos el Banco".

Law 10(a)2

Appropriate subpoenas have been served to obtain

in Miami pertinen

o this investigation, but the results have not yet bee

obtained.

Miami will furnish New York with this information

as soon as possible.

By letter dated 4/4/68, entitled "Alleged Connection

Between Cuban Power and Black_Power Movement"

,Cthe CIA

the following persons could be considered active FL

in this movement; HECTOR,CALLE,

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ MAMAYO,

JUAN VARGAS LE FEBRE, JESUS FERMINAGONZALEZ CARIASand

HUMBERTO/RODRIGUEZ DIAZ.A review of New York Files

reflects that TAMAYO and CALE are currently residents

Miami, Florida.

No information identifiable with JUAN VARGAS

LE FEBRE could be located in New York files.

Investigation by the NYO determined that DIAZ

and CARTAS are presently incarcerated at Lewisburg

Penitentiary, Pennsylvania.

Both individuals were in

Lewisburg during pertinent period of bombings.

Cuba

N.Y

-

C -

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NW 68486 Docld:32327746 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 174-612

NY 174-613

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'd)

SECRET

The following informants in the NYO were

contacted concerning the recent bombings in NYC with

negative results:

NY 5036-5

NY 367-S

NX 3208-5 8)

*NY 4374-5#

NY 3575-5

It is noted the investigative period of this

report overlaps the period of the previous report.

is due to the fact that results of investigation at

auxiliary offices were not received at New York for

submission in the first report.

LEADS

ALBANY

AT DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES, ALBANY, NEW YORK

Will furnish results of record checks concerning

all background information identifiable with GUILLERMO

MIGUEL. If photograph available, furnish same to New

York.

MIAMI®

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

I

COVER PAGE

-SECRET

NW 68486 Docld:32327746 Page 4

---

