JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBE!

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTION
CURRENT STATU!
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90120-10060

HQ

97-4196-854

Document Information -

05/25/1963
2

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE
FPCC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

08/28/1998

INDEFINITE

AT

v9.1

27

NW 64578 Docld:32334955 Page 1


7 (y/ ; CINAL

wey

A/Statt we / OS a
n/OSI/ACS.

State/

Cory to! Cras
ON.

CONTAINED

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4196) &
FROM: SAC, NEW HAVEN (97-122) (P)
SUBJECT: FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTE: AA sprce Cann

RA = CU. yeiassirten BY SBME
1s - cu
Is -C

IS - SWP A4A4b . : 4 btw] anh

Comp 32 B,UUT Dare TR
Enciosed fox che Bureau are nine copies and for the New York
Division two copies of a letterhead memorandum concerning the
scheduled appearance of V. T. LEE, National Director, Fair
~Play for. Cuba Committee (FPCC) at a meeting of the Yale

Yale Law School auditorium, New Haven, Connecticut.

The following informants were utilized in the letterhead memo--
randum:

NH T-1 is NH 419-S;

NH T-2 is Mrs. DOROTHY C. EGAN, Assistant Registrar,
Yale University Law School, New Haven, Connecticut,
an established source, anonymity requested;

NH T-3 is an anonymous source

NH T-4 is JOHN W. POWELL, Security Director, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut, established
source, anonymity requested;

NH T-5 is RAYMOND W. MUSHAL, Beech Street, North

Branford, Connecticut, under consideration for

development as PSI, anonymity requested

NH T-6 is NH 405-s Ke a
we WP |

NH T-7 is “NY '711-S:

(Enel - 9) ° “(Rw EXD

New York); (Encl, = 72 G
97-1 gb) EN 2

o MAY 27 1963 |

~ 100- Vv. T. LEE) —o é
ape (1 - 97-122) Se
100~ 18064 (VICTOR LIPPIT) Ng

YALE SOCIALIST UNION)

Sent
ul rial in Charge

Socialist Union to be held on the evening of 5/24/63 at the f
1

i

NW 64578 Docld:32334955 Page 2

