‘NW 68261

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note),

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10347
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32243313 Page 1


c Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10347
| RECORDS SERIES
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

| ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE : 11/21/77

PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

FEELEY, ELIZABETH C.

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

PRINTED FORM

OPENING CRITERIA

. COMMENTS :
Box -#:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docid:32243313 Page 2



_Elfemoloyee is 0

W 68261
locid:32243313 Page3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter US. HOUSE OF°REPRESENTATIVES. - (Any erasures, corrections, or changes:

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 B gathering offi.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) + Effective Date
Elizabeth C. Fes March 1, 1978
* Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

D0 Appointment

S2ikSolary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee «| D Title Change

OO Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date Gbove and ending
close of business.

(If.type. of action.is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Nocument Clerk $14,606

service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employe
sd from the employing office. 5

plus the salary re

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1 Professional:

2. BSpecial (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H: Res.25% of 25& Congress.
3. C1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

ype oF printname of Authorizing

Chairman

All appointments and-salary adjustments for employees-under. the House Classification Act and for-Committee. em- -
Ployees, except those of the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee. on. the Budget;-and.the Joint.Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: 1D
Office Code.

wane enn Benefits ____.

Payroll

Copy for Initiating: Office.or Committee

\
i
|
j



kw 68261

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE .OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or-changes

Fee i -on this form must be initialed. by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To-the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

_ Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) 7 Effective Date -
Elizabeth €. Feeley Nevember 21, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

Appointment

0 Solory Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of busines

{If type. of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title. Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
Gocument Clerk $12,800 :
* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the ‘annuity received by the-employee™ °""<

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.0 Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or C1 Professional.

2. GF Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 485:_of 95€lcongress.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an’ Officer of the House,-complete item below.) an

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify, that. this. authorization is not in. violation of 5. U,S.C:~3110(b), prohibiting the employment “of -
relatives. 7

q
4
All-appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- 4 ¢
ployees,-except those of the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must oH \

be approved by the Committee on House Administration. d

ee
APPROVED: 8 |
eb Chairman, Committee on House Administration Fy

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Docld:32243313 Page 4 : a j


MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer '

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel We. M,
| DATE: November 17, 1977

RE: Elizabeth Feeley

This is to advise you that Elizabeth Feeley has
accepted a position as document clerk on the Martin Luther
King Task Force, effective November 21, 1977, at an annual
salary of $12,000. \

Please extend every possible assistance to Ms. \

Feeley.

nee



| Nw 68261
Docld:32243313 Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification: ‘

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister _ mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

[7 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

Zz (a Leo. lay {27
Signature of Employee Date

