# docid-32331173

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10119

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-164

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Hecords Collecton Act of

H 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW|

64578 Date: 1214-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

02/15/1963

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331173 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-106

LOUISVILLE:

Identify owner of 1962 or 1963 Cadillac 2-door hardtop,

1963 Kentucky license 20-077 and if feasible, interview to

determine his relationship with the subject.

NEWARK:

AT SOUTH ORANGE, NEW JERSEY

Identify subscriber to telephone number So 3-2392

and if feasible, interview concerning their relationship with

the subject or his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

AT EWING, NEW JERSEY

Identify subscriber to telephone number TU 2-0918

and if feasible interview concerning their relationship with

the subject or his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

NEW YORK:

CI 6-5787 has previously been identified as the

telephone number of NICHOLAS MORESE, tailor, 45 West 46th Street,

New York City.

New York will consider interviewing MORESE concerning

his relationship with the subject or his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

NORFOLK:

Refer to Miami report, dated 10/15/62, wherein it is

noted that WF 1108-C advised on 9/11/62 that on the weekend of

9/9-10/62, the subject and GEORGE ROHANNA, an employee of JOSEPH

• NishInE, wead known washington, D.C., gambler were sent bj

NESLINE tO the NorIot, Virginia, area for the purpose of setting

up a gambling club in the Hampton, Virginia, area.

FD-302 in

instant report, which sets out toll calls for number UN 5-2932,

which is the telephone number in the residence of CHARLES DEL

MONICO, also known as CHARLES WHITE, son of subject, reflects

B

- COVER PAGE -

NW 64578 Docld:32331173 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-106

is contemplating instituting proceedings for a hearing to

determine the assets of the subject and that subpoenas will

be issued to persons presently in the Miami area who are in

a position to furnish information pertaining to his financial

status.

SA MARSHALL furnished names and addresses of the

following persons who are possibly in a position to have

knowledge of the subject's financial status:

CHARLES DEL MONICO

JOSEPH NESLINE

ARMAND CERAMI

MARVIN SCHULMAN

ANTHONY RUSSO

MARVIN STRAUSE

PH 623-C* advised on 12/22/62 that numerous

members of the Philadelphia family of La Causa Nostra

gathered with ANGELO BRUNO for the purpose of joining him

In a holiday drink and at which time they discussed some of

the members of La Causa Nostra.

During this conversation,

ANGELO BRUNO related that RUGGIERO BOIARDO, also known as

JOE RICCI Of Newark, New

Jersey, has been a member of la

Causa Nostra for approximately

1o years, but was apparenti

a powerful man in the Newark and Trenton, New Jersey, areas

even before becoming & member.

most of BOIARDO's associates from years ago, including the

subject, have become

Воста плав бі ва

BRUNO further indicated that

members of la Causa Nostra.

A confidential source abroad, referred to in instant

report, is information furnished by the

Police Judiciaire

(Criminal Police) of the Surete Nationale (PJSN) through the

Legat, Paris. This information furnished to Miami via Bureau

Routing slip, dated 1/21/63.

The following information is

set out in the

administrative section in order not to compromise the source:

MM 848-C advised SA C. GRAHAM HURST On 1/3/63,

that he was in the presence of the subject on the night of

1/1/63, when the subject telephoned one LEECETTE (phonetic)

who apparently is employed at the Carillon Hotel, Miami Beach.

D

- COVER PAGE -

4

92-2989-164

NW 64578 Docld:32331173 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-106

The subject made arrangements with LEECETTE fOr MARVIN STRAUSE

to take

$3,000.00 in large bills over to LEECETTE and to get

in return $3, 000.00 1a small bills. U

The information from the records of the Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company at Miami Beach, Florida,

was furnished by MrS. LORRAINE ETTER. 4

The information received from the New England

l'elephone and Telegraph Company, Providence, Rhode Island,

was Iurnished by Mrs. MARY HAGAN, Legal Office, Providence,

Rhode Island.

4

- INFORMANTS -

MM T-1 is information obtained from Dun and Bradstreet

records, which were furnished by Mrs. ELEANOR HENRIES, Dun

and Bradstreet, 2070 NW Yth Street, Miami.

MM T-2 is MM 665-C contacted by SA ROBERT F. FETZNER. U

MM T-3 is MM 848-C contacted by SA C. GRAHAM HURST. U

MM T-4 IS ZOLTAN E. ROTH, PCI, San Juan Office. 4

MM T-5 Is JAMES B. "SKIP" HINES, PCI, Springfield Office. a

E*

- COVER PAGE -

NW 64578 Docld:32331173 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-204 (Rev: 3=3-59) •

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTÍCE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Miami (Attention

Report of:.

Date:

Field Office File #:

JACK LOUIS MARSHALL

FEB 1 51963

92-106

Title:

CHARLES TOURINE

THAT

11825

WILLIAM KENNEY)

Offices

Miami, Florida

Bureau File #:

92-2989

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Subject presently residing in Penthouse Apartment 910,

Hampshire Towers Apartments, 5415 Collins Avenue, Miami,

Beach, Florida.

The Haupshire Towers Apartments reportedly

and operated by MARVIN SCHULMAN.

Informant

advised

MARVIN STRAUSE, also known as JOE STRAUSE, is a "stooge"

who may be living in the same apartment with subject.

Subject observed to depart Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami

Beach, during afternoon of 1/31/63 in a Cadillac 2-door hardtop

bearing 1963

Kentucky license 20-077. Informant in San

Juan advised the subject was in San Juan in 1959, but as

far as he knew had not been there since that time.

Confidential

source abroad advised ARMAND DIAZ CERAMI, 6437 North Bay

Road, Miami Beach, was in Paris, France,

8/11 - 13/62

5/29/62 to 6/7/62 and

and was probably in contact with subject.

Subject interviewed by Detectives, Criminal Intelligence

Squad, Dade County Dept, of Public Safety, Miami, on 1/24/63.

- P-

DETAILS:

RESIDENCE

• 0 8474

Subject is presently residing in Penthouse

Apartment

910, Hampshire Towers Apartments, 5415 Collins

Avenue, Miami

Beach, Florida.

APPROPRIATE ASENCIES

4

AND

ELD OFFICES

ADVISI

PROUTING

SLIP

Class, Fication

ДАТЕ

TED BY

EMPT FROM CD.

TEGORYT

TION INDEFINITE

spillane.

3/27178

your agency; it and ite contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

92-2989-164

NW 64578 Docld:32331173 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-106

was during 1959 and he did not know the purpose of that visit.

Informant also advised that he cannot recall "TONY BOY" BOIARDO

ever being in san duan, puerto Rico.

4

ASSOCIATES

A confidential source abroad advised on December

22, 1962, that ARMAND DIAZ CERAMI, born February 24 plaza

1920, at

Hackensack, New versey,was registered at the Hotel

• Athenee, Paris, France,

from May 29 to June 7, 1962, and

again from August 11 to 13, 1962, and was probably in contact

with the subject during these periods. CERAMI listed his

address as 6437 North Bay Road, Miami

in possession of U.S. Passport

15128, ached or da, 195995/

at Miami. CERAMI was accompanied by his wife who was in

possession of U.S. Passport 2469436, issued October 21, 1960,

at Miami.

The reservations for CERAMI and his wife had been

arranged by the Fugazy Travel Agency of New York City.

MISCELLANEOUS

On January 29, 1963, Lieutenant L. J. VAN BUSKIRK,

Criminal Intelligence, Dade County Department of Public Safety,

Miami, advised the subject had been interviewed at his apartment

on January 24, 1963, by Detectives of his squad and he furnished

the following information:

TOURINE admitted knowing JOE INDELICATO, MIKE

COPPOLA, JOSEPH NESLINE and a few other boys. He stated that

he was just in town for a vacation and was not working.

TOURINE said he had been approached in reference to some

work, but had refused as he was here on vacation.

He also

said he makes at least one trip and sometimes two or three

trips to Europe every year and is more than welcome at all

the tracks in Europe.

deal of his time on the French Riviera.

while he is in europe he spends & greatl

TOURINE stated he

did not own a vehicle or is not using any vehicle at this

time because every time be would buy one, the FBI, Internal

Revenue, or some other agency always managed to find a reason

to confiscate it.

- 4-

92-2989-164

NW 64578 Docld:32331173 Page 6

---

