# docid-32105626

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY :

ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER :

178-10004-10392

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: A-III (C) INTERVIEW TAPES

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

ROCK

TITLE:

TAPE OF MR. WILLIAM K. HARVEY'S INTERVIEW, 4/10/75

DATE: 04/10/1975

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ROSELLI, JOHNNY

MC CONE, JOHN

HARVEY, WILLIAM K.

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

BISSELL, RICHARD

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

EDWARDS, SHEFFIELD

DOCUMENT TYPE: SOUND RECORDING

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Transcript (#1781000210324) unmarked but may contain classified information.

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 6457€

Date: 12-14-2022

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 1

---

## Page 2

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Tape: 178-10004-10392

Transcript: 178-10002-10324

Neison A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Connor

C. Douglas Dilion

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkland

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronaid Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

April 10, 1975

MEMORANDUM

TO

:

The File

FROM

:

David W. Belin

SUBJECT: Interview with Mr. William K. Harvey ,

Mr. Belin: This is an interview that I've had with

Mr. William K. Harvey, 1611 Northwood Drive,

Indianapolis, Indiana 46240. I am going to make a transcript

of this interview which has taken place on April 10, 1975 in

Mr. Harvey's home, and I will send to Mr. Harvey for his

review a copy of the transcript for his additions or correc-

tions or changes, and then what we'll do, we'll ask that the

transcript as corrected be attached in an affidavit form

for forming a part of the record of the Commission.

PHOTOCOPY FROM

THE GERALD R.

Mr. Harvey is a native of Indiana. He was born on September

13, 1915 in Danville, Indiana.

He graduated from High Schoolin

Haute.

He

is a graduate of the University of Indiana Law

School (1937). He was Associate Editor of the law-Revaew

). and was a member of the order of the coif

After

briefly practicing law in Maysville, Kentucky, he joined the

FBI in the Fall of 1940.

Mr. Harvey: --and forgive the brownie points on the order-of s

the Coif

;-that has no business

Bi

All right. I want to put it in for my reeords..."

H+

I merely noticed in-your Martindale biography

that you were also a member... - ...

He basically was with the FBI during the War,

working for a substantial amount of that time in

Washington on German intelligence matters; eventually worked

on the Soviet Desk and then joined the CIA in 1947, first being

in charge of the Soviet Branch. He went to Berlin in the Fall

of 1952 where he was stationed --

UNMARKED

MAY CONTAIN NATL SECURITY INFORMATION

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 2

---

## Page 3

i:

B:

would you make

interrupting?

Sure - go ahead.

that please -- Do you mind my

H:

Make that Soviet Intelligence Branch.

B:

H:

-- and he was in charge of the Soviet Intelligence

Branch of the Agency --

-which is a lesser position than the other reads

like.

B:

All right. He went to Berlin in the Fall of 1952

where

he was Station Chief until 1959. He came

back to Washington in the Fall of 1959 where he stayed until

June of 1963, except for possible short periods of temporary

duty --

PI

OP

K

H:

-- except for several periods of temporary duty.

B:

-- except for several periods of temporary duty

abroad.

was Station Chief until 1966. He came back to the Agency

in Washington in 1966 and he retired from the Agency in 1967.

on December 31.

Now, Mr. Harvey, does that summarize basically

part of your background, at least that we discussed?

ERALI

H :

That is correct. I would like to add one thing, if f

may. During both the Berlin

and Rome periods and for a considerab

period of time in Washington

after I returned from Berlin

was on the rolks of the Foreign Service of State, which raises

a tittle question of propriety. But I want you to know that

in the handling of this.

LII

B :

All right.

I first asked you with regard to any

BI

knowledge of any assassination plans of slots withing

the Agency concerning Patrice Lumumba and you might indicate

what your response was to that, Mr. Harvey.

H:

I have no personal knowledge of any such plan or

operation within or on the part of the Agency.

B :

I also asked you apart from the question of Fidel

Castro whether or not you had any knowledge of :

any assassination plans or plots in the Agency that involved

any other foreign

leader.

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 3

---

## Page 4

- 3-

H:

Beyond the loose talk, "Would it be desirable"

"Wouldn't it be fine if", I do not.

B:

You know of no other plans except Castro. Is that

correct?

H :

No.

Plans in the sense that a decision was made

to attain that objective and an actual plan or

operation started for that purpose, I do not.

B:

All right. One of the reasons that we're here is

to discuss the question of what knowledge you had about

this whole area, and I believe you indicated that at one time

you had a conversation with someone in the Agency concerning

what that person called a

request from the White House for

the Agency to develop what was called an "executive action

capabilitency Did you have such a conversation with anyone

H:

Yes, I did.

B:

And who was

that?

H:

B:

Richard Bissell.

And I believe you indicated that that took place

in either 1961 or 1962.

Is that correct?

FROM THE GERALD R.

H:

To the best of my recollection that particular

discussion probably took place in the latter part

of 1961.

B :

H:

Do you remember what Richard Bissell --

could

--it just conceivably/have been very early '62.

LIBPARY

B:

Do you remember what Richard Bissell

told you and

what you told him?

H:

Not precisely:

B:

Do you remember that he in substance said that

the white House of someone in the White House

had

raised the question of whether or not the Agency should develop

what was called an "executive action capability"

, a capability

of assassination or liquidation of leaders of foreian countries?

H:

To the best of my recollection that was stated.

B:

Was it stated just once or perhaps on more than

one

occasion?

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-4-

•......d.

H :

I can

only be certain as to once.

B:

All right.

But it might have been on more than

one occasion?

H :

That's possible, but I have no real recollection

that

-- the statement which is best I can recall

is

that the White House has more than once raised the question

of whether we should

have a capability for executive action.

B:

OK.

I believe you indicated to me that you first

learned about the Castro operations from Bissell who

instructed, you to talk to Sheffield Edwards who had been

involved with

the operation before you became involved. Is

that correct?

H:

To the best of my recollection I may have been told

of the operation before I was asked to discuss it

with Edwards and take it over.

I cannot be certain whether

there was one discussion of this or two.

I think possibly I

may have known about it before I was asked to take it over.

B:

All right. And then after you were asked were you

briefed at all by Bissell or did you get your

initial briefing from Sheffield Edwards?

H:

I was only briefed by Bissell that such an opera-

tion had been mounted, what the objective was,

and that it had been handled through Sheffield Edwards.

I do

not recall if he went into further detail or not, but in other

words whether or not he may have said

that a contact was made

with this person or this type of person.

But in any event it

was not a briefing as such or in any detail. It would merely:

have been a summarizing of remärko.

B:

All right. Then you did get a briefing in detail.

though

• Exom Sheffield Edwards, is that correct?

H:

Yes.

B:

And

Edwards was

; in what capacity at that time?

H:

At that time he was Chief of the Office of

Security.

B:

All right.

case

officer?

Then did he put you in touch with the

H:

Yes.

B:

And that was Mr. O'Connell, is that correct?

H:

Correct.

----

THE

GERALD

ARY

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 5

---

## Page 6

5:

Now, I believe, that you said that prior to this

time you had had contact with Robert Maheu because

you had been both jin the same EBI

training class together but

that you didn't have any contact with Maheu during this period

of time to any degree.. Is that correct?

The last time that I saw maheu or talked with

Maheu or had any direct or indirect communication

with Maheu would have been about 1946, possibly '47.

B:

All right. I believe you said as you went through

other things a

entire analysis of the plan you called it among...

"damn fool idea to start with" - I'm saying

you called it in our prior conversation today before we started

taping this interview, and you thought it had been handled in

an incredibly amateurish fashion. Is this accurate?

H:

I'd like to be sure that this is precise. This

was my tentative opinion of it.

Whether I expressed

exactly those words either to Colonel

Edwards or to Bissell, I am not sure. But I may very well have

I may have expressed them subsequent

to that time.

PHOTOCOPY FROM

B:

you also stated that you thought--you also stated

THE

to me today that you thought we were dealing with

what you referred to as a huge hand grenade, that you could

not afford to have go off, so far as outside knowledge of it

is concerned.

That is correct.

H:

/It was not just a question of my not being able

to afford

that it go off, but in the aftermath

of the Bay of Pigs

that the Government, the Agency, or anybody else could well

failure, that was not the kind of an explosto

B :

And one of the concerns you had, I believe, was

that so many people seemed to know about the plan.

Is that correct?

LIBPARY

H:

That is correct.

B:

Do you have any opinion as to whether or not

castro might or might not have known about it?

H:

Given the capabilities of Castro's security

apparate and the general sieve-like character

of the cuban community in exile and the number of people who

knew: at least something about this particular incident or

operation, before I had any connection with it, or later as

a result of things that occurred before I had any connection

with it, I think

and thought at the time that it was quite

conceivable that it had been penetrated.

I cannot

honestly state that I had at that time any firm reason to

Lse,

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 6

---

## Page 7

- 6-

jith

EFFORTS

believe that "Castro was aware of this operation"

B:

I believe that you discussed

this with Edwards

and then O'Connell and then with Helms.

Is that

correct?

H:

B:

Yes.

And I think you also said that if you got involved

you felt you had to take over the contact with

John Roselli to have control of the situation: Is that correct?

And that

H:

/I wanted everyone else cut out.

В:

You met Roselli first in New York and when,

approximately?

Н:

To the best of my recollection about early April

of 1962.

B:

Roselli was working with Cuban exiles and with organ

FROM

gamblers, is that correct?

H:

That was my understanding.

THE

В:

And after that first meeting with Roselli at which

I believe you indicated to me

earlier - and when I

say "earlier"

, we had an extensive interview before we started

taping here -

is that correct?

GERALD

H:

That's correct.

B:

After that first meeting, you feel that O'Connell from

that time forward was not involved in the situation

Is that correct?

So far as you were concerned?

н:

• far as I

was concerned and I shortly thereafter

expressed the conviction that

that should be the case

to which Colonel Edwards agreed,

I do not remember the exact

date that O'Connell was instructed to stay completely out of

this operation -- instructed by Colonel Eawards, that is. But

it would have been some time rather shortly after this.

B:

And then as I understand it basically, you reported

to Helms that you were taking - you had already:

told Helms you were taking it over - I think you also told

me you were concerned about the possible = what you called

blackmatl of the Cuban exile community to blackmail the U.s.

Government.

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 7

---

## Page 8

- 7-

H :

-- or of any other individuals involved in this.

B:

If by that you use blackmail in the broader term

of not just

payment of money for an individual

but doing a

favor, even

taking action that the government

might not otherwise want to take.

That is correct.

Or its being used in a vindictive.

sense, if you will if proposals or policies

or particular

things these individuals and groups wanted.

were refused.

By what means

B:

were they going to try and

assassinate Cuba -- or

a Cuban leader - Castro?

H:

I was told that there were two possibilities -

rifle fire and the use of poison.

B:

On the

rifle fire, did you participate with the

Financing to enable one of these Cuban exile groups

that Roselli was involved with to acquire guns and ammunition?

I did participate in one delivery of arms and

some related equipment.

B:

And where did that delivery take place?

H :

It took place in Miami.

FROM

THE GERALD R.

B :

And do you know approximately when that took place?

Might it have been in late '62 or early '63?

H:

Well, it certainly was not in '63. I do not believe

it was

as late as late '62. To the best of my

recollection, it would have been about mid-' 62.

B:

All right. Did John Roselli ever

ask. any money

BPARY

personally for any of the work he did on this?

H:

No.

He did not.

And I am sure he knew that had

he asked, given

amount of his

funds. he had expended in travel expenses ana. own personal

so forth, that he pr

bably could have gotten money.

As

a matter of fact, I believe that

Roselli made it a point of pride to take absolutely nothing

either in personal financial gain or to at any time then or

since to use this in an effort to secure favorable u.s.

Government consideration in any of the various problems

• he

may have had with the U.S. Government.

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 8

---

## Page 9

- 8-

NOW,

Mr. Harvey,

B:

do you know how much money was paid in the

Summer of 1962 - mid-' 62 - for these gun deliveries,

approximately?

matin gasolines and

H:

I don't remember

the exact amount that the shipment

of arms was valued at. There was a not large cash

payment made to this Cuban group.

I believe it was in the low

four figures, but the exact amount I do not remember.

B :

Plus or minus $5,000?

H:

B:

Certainly not plus, and I would think minus.

Do you remember if it included both rifles and

handguns?

H:

I believe that it did, yes.

B:

And I believe you also told me drugs such as anti-

biotics.

H:

Yes,

there were some medicinal drugs, anti-biotics,

and so forth, which as I recall was

fairly minor

part of this.

B:

H:

Were the poison pills involved botulism pills?

I don't know.

B:

They were pills which were to be used in - to

dissolve in food or something of that nature?

H:

My understanding that they were - whether they

were pills or what they were, I don't know, but a

SU

stance was

¡to be orally administered, I believe in food or

drink, but I'm

not positive.

BPARY

B:

Did you ever get a report from Roselli that the

people had gotten into cuba with the guns and

with the pills?

H:

I did receive a report from Roselli that he had

received from his Cuban contact that the arms

had gotten in , the people had gotten in, and the material

had gotten in, and

that they had high hopes of success for

the operation.

B:

But the - of course - there was no ultimate success

SO

far as the killing of Castro

was concerned.

ilon

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 9

---

## Page 10

- 9-

-4.'''

H:

There was no ultimate success, and as far as I

personally know, there was never, even any credible i

attempt made.

B :

Do you have any opinion why?

H:

I don/t know that I have any valid opinion why.

There are a great many things that could have

happened.

It wasn't tried, it was choked off, it was pene-

trated from the start - at least on the Cuban end - that is

the end in Cuba.

When I say I had no personal knowledge of

this, I am aware that Castro has claimed there were a number

of attempts on his life.

I am aware that he has blamed those

on the U.S. in general and on CIA in particular. But I have

no personal knowledge of facts which would prove that there

was ever actually if you will, a shot fired or any poison

administered, or any other attempt other than in the inchoate

stage.

B:

Mr. Harvey, didJohn McCone know at this time what

was going on?

H:

To my knowledge, he did not.

B:

You were at a meeting of the Special Group (augmented

in the Department of State in August of 1962 when

someone brought up the possibility of liquidation of Castro,

LD

is that correct?

# :

That is correct.

B:

Do you remember what Mr. McCone did at the time?

H:

les. He got rather

red in the face and made a

comment "Well, that's not something that should

be discussed" Now,

Please don't hold me to these

LIBPARY

EXACT words.

B:

That's to the best of your recollection?".

H:

The best of my recollection is I was at that

meeting with John McCone.

To the best of my

recollection the remark that he made was a clear effort to

stop any such proposals, suggestion or any discussion thereof:

at that meeting within that

forum immediately.

B :

Earlier, before that meeting, had you had any dis-

cussiors wich Richard Helms about whether or not

McCone should be advised

of what was going on after McCone

became DCI?

H:

Yes, I had.

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 10

---

## Page 11

-10-

^1...

B :

And what was the substance of your conversation

with Richard Helms?

H :

I do not recall how the question came up as to

whether the new DCI should be briefed or not. I

may have raised it. But I did recommend to Mr. Heims that

since this particular "operation" and the possible repercussions

from it all stemmed from actions which had taken place long

before either Helms or myself had had any personal connection

with it, and before John McCone had had any connection whatever

with the Agency, and since the decision had been made at that

time that this should be sanitized, tied off and terminated

as soon as practically feasible, I

saw

no reason why the new

DCI should be briefed on it, and I strongly recommended that

he not be.

B:

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE

Ultimately you decided that the planshad litte

chance of success and you decided to wind down

the plans. Is that correct?

H:

I would object to the word "ultimately"

That

is

substantially correct if you put it within the

time frame that I reached a tentative conclusion to that effect

very

shortly after I was

able to fully debrief Roselli and

assess what had gone on in the past,

the people that we could find

out that were involved in it who I checked out file-wise and so f

as against what we

then knew of the general capability of

effective action within Cuba.

B:

And then in order to not have an explosion from

a too-abrupt termination, you determined to

gradually tie it down and wind it up, is that correct?

That is correct.

Remembering, Mr. Belin, that

in the

Initial phases of this it was quite

obvious that there was an explosion potential.

not in the technical sense -- a flap potential, if you wiil,

here--an explosion

but it took some time to find out just what could be done

and how it could be done, to try to sanitize the possible

repercussions of this.

FORD LIBPARY

B:

Any other thing that you wish to add for the

record here?

H:

of this.

Only that I assume you will write up your notes

from our considerably more detailed discussion

If you do I would appreciate a copy.

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 11

---

## Page 12

- 11-

$:

You will get a copy of whatever I write in that

regard.

H:

The only other comment that I would like to make

for this tape is that to the extent it is possible

I would request that actual identities be sanitized from this

insofar

as it is possible to do so.

B:

H:

B:

And that's for purposes of protecting rights of

privacy

to people including yourself?

pati don

It is not as I said earlier in our

informal conversation that this is not an oblique

pleading of the Fifth Amendment.

I believe you then indicated to me that you went

to Rome

in approximately June of 1963.

H:

That is correct. It was June 1963.

B:

And had no further contact with this Cuban operation

from

that time forward. Is that correct?

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

H:

That is correct.

B:

jut

Anything else you wish to add on the record?

H:

One/please.

one-catchi

There have,

as you know,

been some

unfortunate and in my opinion distorted

allegations about that that have surfaced publicly sind then,

but I

have had no official connection with any Cuban operation

since June--probably May would be more accurate--at

the very latest--of May of 1963. And from the time that I left

the Cuban task force in the early months of 1963--to the best

of my recollection around March--I have in no sense attempted

to keep current or involve myself in it in any sense whatever.

B :

Anything else you'd wish to add?

H:

You want this for the record--or off

the record?

LIBPARY

B:

H:

Either way.

I have nothing to add to the tape unless you have

further questions.

B:

No sir, I just want to thank you very much for your

cooperation and I'll get a transcript to you on this.

H:

What I'd like

to say--and this has no business in the:"

tape--but you've been most courteous and most considerat

and

again, take it for what it's worth, I have tried very hard to

give you an accurate recollection of this, and

full one.

B:

Thank you very much.

(END OF TAPE)

suns a may

19775

Williams farice

NW 64578 Docld:32105626 Page 12

---

