Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10478 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.
Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| NW 68261
Docld:32239486 Page 1



Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10478

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

DATE : 10/11/77
PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MATTHEWS, LEODIS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
| CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

7 COMMENTS :
Box.2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32239486 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM wee

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

© at
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(_) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes |
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initiated by the i

authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

L Leodis C. Matthews

12/31/78

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

5 Assassinations

O Title Change

D Leave withou

Oi Solary Adjustment
Termination (At close of business on effective date)

close of business

t pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
2.
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

If applicable, Level___

— Step.

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or (1 Professional.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

_---LOUIS_ STOKES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

Choirman,

Congress.

(of print name of Authorizing Oi

‘Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
| Office Code.

NW 68261
| Docld:32239486 Page 3

RO a On WS



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO"M

(Please Use Typewriter » “~<“: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 ST A OC

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Lesdis 6. Matthews
Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action

4
O Appointment

3] Salary Adjustment 3 \
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

‘ O Termination (At close of business on effective date)

amber 1, 1978

3

1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
Agssesinacions close of business

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$31,700.06

service annuitant/{includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
fed from the employing office.

* employee isa
plus the solary rec

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1 Professional.

2. El Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 2° __of? 98 Congress.
3. O01 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. __-.If applicable, Level_______. Step__.____. 4

]

i

3

{Signature of Authorizing “g

a TOULS STORES J

4

j

|
3 ’
All_appointments and salary adjustments for employee s_under j :
ployees, except those of the Committee on.Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must 4 \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. 4 4
4 \
APPROVED:. JH

of

Office of Finance use only: ID i

Office Code... poe |

4

| “8 .Copy-for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 7 - —- wen
|| Docld:32239486 Page 4 .



|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S.-HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES -- (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i i ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ; Effective Date
Leodis C. Matthews October 11, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

ct 8 (a) (2040 [8] Appointment

Employing Office or Committee O Sclary Adjustment

Assassinations C Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel $30,000.00

ited silt

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [] Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or] Professional.

5

2.

X] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res...

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. _.If applicable, Level________ Step___-_2_.

| .certify that this authorization is not: in. violation of 5 U,S.C. .3110(b),
relatives. a -

Date. Getober 17 192?

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees ‘under. the-House-Classification Act and’ for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee-on Appropriations; the Committee on the.Budget, andthe Joint Committees; must
be approved by. the Committee on House Administration. .

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.________-_

— -

NW 68261
Docld:32239486 Page 5

1
i
|



i
NW 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son ‘husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

Ri am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

LJ 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

| Docld:32239486 Page 6



1 we —
NW 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel no Wwe
DATE: September 28, 1977

RE: Mr. Leodis (Lee) Matthews

Mr. Leodis (Lee) Matthews has accepted the position
of Senior Staff Attorney with the John F. Kennedy Task Force.
His effective starting date will be October “. 1977, and his
starting salary will be $30,000.00 per annum.

Mr. Matthews graduated from Northwestern School of Law
in 1973 and since that time has served in the Multnomah County
(Portland, Oregon) District Attorney's Office. He is currently
Senior Deputy District Attorney with that office.

Your full co-operation is expected in familiarizing Mr.

Matthews with staff procedures and welcoming him aboard.

ICM: j1

Docld:32239486 Page 7

