# docid-32334043

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10036

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 87-12304-29-26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PRICE

TO:

ROSEN

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/18/1958

2

JEWEL THEFT INVESTIGATIONS MIAMI

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32334043 Page 1

10

Date:

6/2/2015

Released under the John F. Kennedy

sosassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12.14-2022

---

## Page 2

STANDARD POPAM NO. BA

Office Mer

LUM . UNITED S

GOVERNMENT

TO

: MR. ROSEM

DATE: 4/18/58

FROM : F. L. PRICE 4INP

SUBJECT: JEWEL THEFT INVESTIGATIONS

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

STOLEN PROPERTY MATTER

дів

+2

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Nease

Tele. Room

Holloman

Gand

This is to advise of current activities concerning

jewel theft investigations in the Miami area.

A

I squad. has been set up including 26 Agents

agents, centrassting a mager portet on their times o teed aertional

of the

These investigations are under the personal supervision

SAC.

The following special techniques have been and are being

utilized: mail covers, trash covers,

surveillances and lookouts.

It should be noted that a mail

and.

trash cover placed on Howard

Kussell selander,

a known Miami jewel thief, resulted in placings

him in Memphis at the approximate time a theft took place and also

developed pertinent information implicating him in the- theft.

Investigation in this case is continuing in an effort to establish

a Bureau

violation.

A New York informant familiar with Miami jewel thieves

is presently on assignment in the Miami area for the purpose of

developing information on the known jewel thieves and their current:

activities. Informants from other field offices as well as Miami

are also being used to cover jewel thief activity in

In this connection, Miami Agents were instrumental in

obtaining

evidence in a local theft against one Fred Schreier on

lis furnishing valuable intelligence information.

Thereafter Schreier was developed as an informant and.

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:

An informant advised on 4/2/58,

that Rober

Kalinka and Randall Kalinka left Kansas City by plané

she, JacK

"pull a

UISIA

It was noted that their luggage included

an almost empty

/brief case ánd suitcase evidently intended to be used in transporting

the 100t.

These thieves returned to Kansas City without perpetrating=

a theft.

17÷125046

copies made y

TWC: AAS: FWA: 6-a54-24-25 B-a54-24-25 NEC- 69

not ost Me 5%

12, APR 22 1958

PoTreview at FBIHQ by - 1e6

ASCA ref 202 request.

62APR 24

19684See Bufile #62-1172901

NW 64578 Docld:32334043 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandun for Mr. Rosen

An informant on 3/24/58, advised that John Charles

Herrmann and Johnadder, known jewel thieves,

left Chicago on

3/22/58.

All offices were notifled and Miami undertook investi

gation to locate the thieves if they were in the Miami area.

On ^

4/4/58, both thieves returned to Chicago and again no theft was

perpetrated.

Joseph jerola, a known

Tame jewel thies, was reported

as having stated he is afraid to leave Miami because of the FBI.

that these thieves

chicagon now at he matth to don,

Kenneth Gordon, who has been in

close contact with many of the nation's jewel thieves has advisec

have recently indicated the Chicago area was

too "hot" for fencing stolen property and that outlets for stolen

jewelry are being sought in Cuba.

The Legal Attache, Havana, has

been instructed to develop sources which may be of assistance

"locating stolen jewelry.

All phases of this matter are being closely followed

and vigorously pursued.

V.

за

-

2

NW 64578 Docld:32334043 Page 3

---

