# docid-32336890

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection eet of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:N'V

54578 Date: 12-14-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10285

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82298-115

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: TP

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/03/1961

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

19.1

NW 64578 Docld:32336890 Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

3. =

FD-263 (Fev. 5-1-591

FEDERAL BUREAU OF

ESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MAAMI

ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO

DATE

APR 3 1961

REPORT MADE BY

SA RICHARD

5.

CHARACTER. OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/23/61

CLARK

TYPED BY

bip

IS • COBA

REFERENCE Bureau letter to Tampa, 3/20/81.

ALL INI

HERE

CA COCAINED

-RUC-

Declassily

•OADR 1/27/84

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that RAUL MORAN is currently under develop-

ment as & PSI by this Division.

He advised that he directed

the letter enclosed by referenced letter at the request of his

sister-in-law to placate her.

He stated he did not refer the

matter locally because it did not treat with any personages with-

in this Division.

He was

instructed as to proper handling of

such information.

)(uL)

not being protected herein because

he

expressed desire to be identified on record concerning his

vouching for MiNOYO, and the Information divulges nothing of

confidential relationships./ U

MORAN is considered

relisble and sincere and has

APPROVED

SPECiAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MA

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1057822981

115

Bureau

(105-82298) (RM)

3

Miami (105-2102) (RM)

(1- INS, Miami )

(RM)

1-

San Antonio (Info.) (RM)

1 - Tampa (105-454)

DECLASSITY

0x 5/02

/ Sp8 MACI

SEK)

57 AP 11059040f Antached Roport.

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How. Fwd.

By :

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

ONI/OST /62: 24

by routing slip for info.

Date:

4-11- G/ bý PHN: De

REC- 95

«10%

9 APR 5: 1961

Notations

SEC:

NAT. IMI

COPIES DESTROYA

IS SEP s 1974

SEXREP

NW 64578 Docld:32336890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DATE

APR 3

1961

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/23/61

SA RICHARD

CHARACTER OF CASE

CLARK

IS - CUBA

TYPED BY

bip

REFERINCE Bureau letter to Tampa, 3/20/61.

-RUC

AZE RNCORATTON CONTAINED

FERDI!

TOSTIED

LACEr

OTHERW

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that RAUL MORAN is currently under develop-

ment as a PSI by this Division.

He advised that he directed

the letter enclosed by referenced letter at the request of his

sister-in-law to placate her.

He stated he did not refer the

matter locally because it did not treat with any personages with-

in this Division.

He was

instructed as to proper handling of

such information.

(L)

His identity

is not being protected herein because he

expressed desire to be identified on

record concerning his

vouching for MENOYO, and the information divulges nothing of

confidentlel relationships: @ (UL)

MORAN is considered reliable and

sincere and has

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau: (105-82298) (RM)

3

Miami (105-2102) (RM) *

(1- INS, Miami )

(RM)

1 - San Antonio (Info.) (RM)

1 - Tampa (105-454)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agoncy

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Classified by

Declassify on

spebtifel

SAD: /22/84

* SEGET

NW 64578 Docld:32336890 Page 3

---

