# docid-34529656

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

03/07/96

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10007-10425

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: X1332650W - PAGES 503-507

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

: 108TH MI GROUP

TO

TITLE : EXHIBIT

DATE : 02/25/70

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS : NAGELL, RICHARD C.

TRINKALA, VICTOR L."

SWORN STATEMENT

TAPE RECORDING OF INTERVIEW

CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR

DISCHARGE FROM ARMY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64954 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34529656 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TEN CR

UNITED STATES ARMY INTELLIGENCE COMMAND

COVER SHBET

SUBJEGT:

FILE NOMDER:

PREPARING UNIT!

AGENT REPORT DATED:

DESCRIPTION:

TRINKALA, Victor Lee

PVT "JEK Act 5 (g) (2) D

9321 - 6006

108th Mr Group (I-STR)

25 February 1970

SUBJECT'S Sworn Statenient (DA Form 2823);

dated 19 February 1970.

503

FROM AUSOMATIC BAXINAZIS?

NW 64954 Docld:34529656 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WITNESS STATEMSNT

(AR 195-10 - TB PAG 3)

PLACE 108th Mi Group, Region I,

Room 1332,

DATE

TIME: 1500 Hrs

FILE NUMBER

26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10007

19 Feb 70

1600 Hrs

2321: 6006

LAST NAME, FIRST NAMET MIDDLE NAME

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NO.

GRADE

TRINKALA, Victor Lee

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

PVT

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

127 West 43à Street, Room 301; Manhattan, New York

10036

SWORN STATEMENT

VL7 Victor Lee. Trinkala

WANT TO MAKE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT UNDER OATH

Mr. Trinkala, before we proçeed, it is my desire to acquaint you with the purpose

.of this interview..

The United States Department of Army must be assured of. ühe

charactes, suitability, and unswerving loyalty to the United states of persons who

are in the United States Army and its Reserve component.

In this regard, you

have been asked to voluntarily undergo an interview under oath concerning your

background since you were discharged from

active duty and placed in the inactive

reserves,

This interview will provide a dual opportunity to you and the Depart

ment. of Army to determine your status up to the presont. Do you understand what

have just said to you?

A."

"Yes.

Q. Do you have any objection to being interviewed under oath?

101111

A. No.

Please stand and raise your right hand.. Do you affirm to tell the truth, the

whole truth and nothing but the truth?

Ano

Yes, I so affirm.

Do you have any objection to having this interview tape recorded for administra

tive purposes?

A.

No, none whatsoever "' Vl

Please state your name, address of residence, occupation, name and address of

Ao

employer, and social security Account Number.

My name is Victor Lee Trinkals and I reside at the Hotel Woodstock, Room 301,

127 West 43d. Street, Manhattan, New York.

'I an currently unemployed. My Social

Security Account Number is

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D

What addresses have you resided at since your discharge?

Ao

I lived at the Hotel Strand, 206 West 130 Street, Manhattan, New York for approxi

mately two or three weeks alter my discharge fron the Army.

I then

moved to my

current address and have resided there ever since.

What employment have you had since your discharge?

A.

None. I collect a weekly unemployment check fron New York State which pays for my

bills.

Did you cone directly to New York City after your discharge?

Q. Mr. Trinkala, have you ever had contact with any embassies, legations, consulates.

or representatives of any foreign country?

A:

No, none that I know of.

504

Have you or any member of your family ever been contacted by a representative of

• a foreign intelligence service either here or abroad?

Ao

No, none that I know of.

Q. Have you or any member of your family ever been contacied by anyone with a more

than casual interest in your military assignmente, career, or duties?

EXHIEN

INITIALS OR PERSON MAKING STATEMENT

PACETOF

FACES

ADDITIONAL PAGES MUST CONTAIN THE HEADING "STATEMENT OF

TAKEN AT

DATED-

'CONTINUED."

THE BOTTOM OF EACH ADDITIONAL PAGE MUST BEAR THE INITIALS ON THE PERSON MARING THE STATEMENT AND

IBE IMMALED AS «PAGE.

•OF.

_PAGES." WHEN ADDITIONAL PAGES ARE UTILIZED,

TEE BACK OF PAGE 1 WILL

I BE LINED OUT, AND THE STATEMENT WILL BE CONCLUDED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF ANOTHER COPY OF THIS FORA

NW 64954 Docld:34529656 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Statement of TRINKALA, Victor Lee,

taken at 108th MI Group, Region I, 26 Federal

Plaza, Room 1332, New York, New York 10007, dated 19 February, 1970, continued:

VA.T No, no one that I can recall.

If you were contacted by someone with a more than casual interest in your

military assignments, career, or duties, what would you do?

A.

I would report them'to the FBI, CIA, or the CID.

• Do you, Mr. Irinkala, still consider yourself to be a Conscientious Objector?

Ao

NOs YES.

V

You do mai consider yourseli to be a Conscientious Objector?

A. .I consider myself to be a Conscientious Objector to a certain point.

Explain, if you will, Mr. Trinkala.

I do not believe in killing someone for no reason. I just can not bring myself

-Uto kill a man because someone tells me to.

Ro. What are your Conscientious Objector grounds based upon?

A.

I have religious and moral objections to killing people.

&• When were you discharged?

A. I was discharged on 3 December 1969.

What were the reasons given for your discharge?

Ae. I really cannot recall the reasons for my discharge.

Qo Were you told why you were discharged?

There were several reasons involved.

• vone discharge a friond of mine hoped me to poddie VIT

chorged."V

Q.

A.

How did he help you

obtain a discharge?

I do not know how he helped, or if, in fact, he did help ne to get dischargad."

What is your friend's name?

A.

His name is Richard Nagel.

Where does Richard Nagel reside?

I do not know where he lives.

I have never met him in person and do not know

hin personally.

He is a ciend of a friend:

How did you become acquainted/with, Mr. Nagel.

A.

Mc. Nagel is actually the friend of Tony Muneer of whom I have known for three

or four years.

Where does Mr. Muneer reside and what is his occupation?

A.

Tony Muneer resides at the Hotel Woodstock, 127 West 43d Street, Manhattan,

"New Lork. He is employed there as a Desk Clork.

& Have you ever resided in the same residence with Mr. Muneer previous to your

• discharge?

Ao

Yes, we both lived in the Hotel Strand, 206 West, 43a Street, Manhattan, New

What was his occupation at that time?

A.

He was working as a Desk Clerk and going to school at IBM.

What was your occupation at that time?

A..

I was working at the Clinton Hotel, 19 West 31st Street, Manhattan, New York.

So, Mr. Muneer told you he would help you get out of the Army?

Ao

Yes, he said he would speak to a friend, Richard Nagel, and see what he could do.

Did he ever tell you what he did to help you get out of the Army?

'A.

Q.

Have you ever associated with

NO:

5ng dissident, anti-army, or anti-ver groups?

Have you ever been contacted by any individual who is a representative of any

dissident, anti-Army, or anti-war groups?

Ar: I do not know..

@. Has any person ever asked you to attend meetings of such groups?

NW 64954 Docld:34529656 Page 4

---

## Page 5

VLI

A.

Statement of TRINKAiA, Victor Lee, taken at 108th MI Group, Region I, 26 Federal

Plaza,

Room 1332, New York, New York 10007, dated 19 February 1970, continued:

Have you ever attended any meetings of any dissident, anti-arny, anti-war

groups?

No, never.

V.l.

Where were you stationed while in the Army?

I was stationed at For Gordon, Georgia for approximately nine weeks during

which time I received Basic Training.

I then went to Fort Polk, Louisiannas

for AIT training in the MOS 11510.

I stayed at Fort Polk for approximately

10 weeks.

I was then sent to Oakland Army Terminal with orders for Viet Nam.

I was discharged at Oakland Army Terminal. on 3 December 1969.

Do you not remember the reasons for your discharge?

A.

No, I do not remember the specific reasons.

Go. How much time had you spent in the Army?

Ao

I had spent five months and 22 days.

Did you not think it rather odd that you should be granted a discharge after

only five nonths and 22 days?

Yes, I thought it was odd but I did not know what was happening.

Did you receive any coum eling while in the terny from Army personnel?

A.

Nagel was.

Q.

Why did he ask you the identity of Richard Negel and what was his name and rank?

A. I do not know why he asked me about Richard Nagel. He was

a Warrant Officer but

I do not remember his name or rank.

What did you tell him about Mr. Nagel?

I told him only that he was a personal friend of mine.

Had you requested a discharge at any time prior to arriving at Oakland Army Ter-

minal?

A.

I do not recall.

You had never requested a

discharge?

Ar

I was trying to get my combat status changed to non-combat status.

initiated any formal procedures to obtain a discharge.

Did you ever tell any one that you were a Conscientious Objeotor?

A. Yes, I told the adjutant at Oakland Army Terminal but he tore up my request and

told me to get the hell out.

Have you his nane and rank?

-A.

No, I do not recall his name or rank.

A.

Did Richard Nagel ever mention to you how he got you out of the Army?

No, as I mentioned before I have never seen him before or since.

long distance from New York City while I was at Oakland Army Terminal and that

was the first and last I heard from him,

Q.

Ar

Has lony Muneer heard from him or does he know of his whereabouts?

No, Tony has not heard from him since December 1969 and does not know of Richard

Nagel's whereabouts.

Have you ever been arrested?

As :

Yes.

How many times?

506

About three or four times.

Have you ever been arrested since being inducted into the army?

•A.

No, and I listed all. my arrests on the f

orms I had to fill out before going into

the Army and at Basic Training.

V

NW 64954 Docld:34529656 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TATEMENT (Continued)

Qu Do you have friends who are members of dissident, anti-irmy, on anti-war groups

or organizations?

A...

No, but nost of ny friend's do not like the Army... I do not. know their reasons:

Q.

To what country do you owe your allegiance?

•A.

"The United States.

Do you support the Constitution of the United States and are you willing to

= defen the United States against any and all of her enemies without exception?

AV L-I support the Constitution and an willing to fight any enemies who invade the

United States but I am not willing to fight in Viet Nam because I believe the

war is immoral.

If called upon to fight in Viet Nam would you go?

I would try to obtain Conscientious Objector status. If that did not work I do

not know what I would do.

Would you be willing to go on Active Duty if called upon?

I would not be willing to be called to Active Duty and I do not know if I would

go if called.

Why are you opposed to killing?

A.

I was brought up is be opposed to killing.

They wanted to teach me in fow

*months to kill somebody and you can not teach in four months something which is

opposed to what you have been taught for many years.

Are these attitudes due to religious beliefs?

Yes, I am Catholic and do not believe in killing.

If you had to kill someone in self-defense what would you do?

I would fight back but this

I would probably have to kill.

If you were in Viet Nam and were under fire would you ill the enemy?

A.

Q.

Yes, I would.

Any. human being would fight back

If a foreign pover

attacked the United States woula have any objection to killine

the aggressor?

No, not really.

A.

Wooh have anything further to add?

AFFIDAVIT

1, Victor Lee Trinkala

HAVE READ OR HAVE HAD READ TO ME THIS STATE-

MENT WHICH BEGINS ON PAGE 1 AND ENDS ON PAGE

MADE BY ME.

• I FULLŸ UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THE ENTIRE STATEMENT

THE STATEMENT IS TRUE.

I HAVE INITALED ALL CORRECTIONS AND HAVE INITIALED THE BOTTOM OF EACH PACE

CONTAINING TRE STATEMENT, I HAVE MADE THIS STATEMENT FREELY WITHOUT HOPE OF DENEFIT OR REVARD, WITHOUT THAZAT

OF FUNISHMENT, AND WITHOUT COERCION, UNLAWFUL, INFLUENCE, OR UNLAWFUL INDUCEMENT.

3)

WiTNESSES:

(Siénaturo of Pezaon Maiting Statemont)

Karz

12/6

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

1049 SAMSG

507

is botore me, a person authorized by law

• to administar coths, this

127 West, 43d Street,

Februacy

, 19.

70

«*

Manhattan: NY 10036

4p1s1

(Stgraturo of Person Admialetering Cath)

ORCANIZATION OR ADDRESSOECEMCNG

TIMOTHY I. MC PHERSON, Special Agend

(Tyned Neine of Permon Administerine Outt)

AR 136 (2), DOMa

(Authority To Administer Oatho)

INITIALS OF PERSON MAKING STATEMENT

4. or

L PAGES

NW 64954 Docld:34529656 Page 6

---

