# docid-34517492

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Datè : *03/19/98

Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10008-10322

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE : ARMY REGULATION

DATE: 00/00/00

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : DOCUMENTS REFERRED FOR REVIEW BY ARRB LTR 5 FEB 97

(CASE #36J)

INCLOSURE 3 (DEFENSE AGAINST SOUND EQUIPMENT)

316TH INTELLIGENCE CORPS DETACHMENT, TACTICAL STANDING

OPERATING PROCEDURES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/97

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NW 64954 Docld:34517492 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ZONFIDENTIAL

INCLOSURE 3 (DEFENSE AGAZASE SOUND EQUIPINE) tO MOpendiE 2 (UNIT FUNCTIONS)

I0 Annex : (ORGANIZAZION AND FUMURIONS) to 316th INO Det Dac SOP (J)

1. (U) this inclosure delineates the functions and responsibilities of

the Defense igainst Sound Dauipment (DAST) Section of this unit.

The

¡unctions listed are

stated in general terms.

The persorrel authorized

this section are lisad in appendix 3, this annex.

2. To the DASE section has tre jollowing functions.

Ze capable c: establishing operations within ine snortest possible

time.

bo 3a capable o operating over extended pericas oê time.

c. La located so as to je secure from enemy observation and fire.

¿. Fave necessary technical referance materials available.

e. rave available necessary technical equipment to perfom assigred

missions.

f. rave facilities available to enable section to secure classified

msterials.

§a Frovide ior ine rendering of technical advica and assistance to

counterintelligence personnel.

Lo Be familiar with the provisions of AR 380-42.

Le je capable of detecting and removing clandestine surveillance and

listening devices irom a soon, building, or area.

ja Ee familiar with the techniques involved in the usa oi counter-

-casures equipsent.

k. Ze familiar. "ith the theory and operation of countermeasures

equipsent.

1. zintain equient as recessary.

Be capable of instailing

the

following ciandestine surveillance

and listening devices.

(1) Palepione by-pass.

(2) Padiation-ture transcatter in a venicie.

(3)

and a vehicle.

clandes tire

recordar

installation in boin a fixed location

(4) Telephone line to, virect and induction.

(5)

Microprone plants.

BONFIDENTIAL

NW 64954 Docld:34517492 Page 2

4-2-j-1

HC23 =

---

## Page 3

CUnFIDenTIAL

o. Be able to recognize anti-intrusion devices used in securing a

building, room, or area.

Do Be capable of by passing various alary systems.

q. Be capable of recognizing anti-intrusion devices used in securing

a safe or file cabinet.

innex G.)

Have available detailed technical inspection checklists. (See

3. (0) The DASE section operates under the direction of the Operations

Officer.

CONFIDENTIAL

4-2-3-2

NW 64954 Docld:34517492 Page 3

---

