# docid-32195995

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10264-10488

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1639

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56327 Diate: 12-14-2022

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BELMONT. A. H.

TO: TOLSON

TITLE:

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES: 81

SUBJECT:

CC, REQ, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

12/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC 19 MEMO, 3 TTY, 5 NEWS ARTICLE, 3 ADMIN PAGES, 3 COVER SHEETS,

1 TELEGRAM, 5 LTRS, 1 R/S, 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS, 1 LHM

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2 - Mr.

(1

-

Mr.

Mr :

-

Mr.

T.

Mintz

Daly)

W.

Leavitt

F.

Phillips

E. Burns

Ray 19, 1976

nay setoraoy coneral

¿rector, FBI

otto Sad:

VTELLIGKNCK ACTIVITIES. (5SC)

7441

041

074

o to saC letter dated

andun ta being. submitted

& forwarding co the Comnittee

mittee's reguests in this

sterial with the Maite loase erlor

A tale Comection, you

attention

ALla da to certal 105-82555-4711.

to your took of thie mo

lun le being furnished

APPROVED:

Baclosaree (2)

62-116395

Assti Dir.:-

Admin..i

Comp. Syst.

Ext Affairs.

Geno Inve

Inspectionl

Laboratory

Legal Couns B

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.

Training

1 -

the Dept rectore

REC- 104

ittention

Michael

Generah

• Shaheen, Jr.

Special

counsel for

Fice Caned Cordinton 113% 11039

TEB: eme JiM

(10)

- ENCLOSURE

4 \ 1976

TO

BE/HAND DELIVERED BY THE OFFICE OF

- CONGRESSYONE HABIR

pat

Assóc. Dir

Dap. AD

Dap. ADV

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.'

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affoirs :

Filos & Com. -

Gan. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection

Intoll.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. _

Training

Tolephone, Roof

Director

MAIL ROOM

MA JUN

1 0 1976

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 2

TELETYPE UNIT

GPO: 1975 0 - 594-120

---

## Page 3

SECRET

TABLE Q

CONTENTS

Recent FBi Migh Lighes

NON-PERTINENT

HEADINGS EXCISED (NPHE)

Page

Conmunias Party:

USA

Communism and the Hegzo Movement

PrOSOCHEL VO

Actian Under the Internal Securit

ACt

2950

Penetration os soviet-hier Intelligence Services (S)(u)

The Fedora Case

The Tophae

Case

& The (desnacs) Casa

(*) 14!

(5)

ON GOEITATUED

HARDEN IS UNCLASSIFTED EXCEFS

WHETLE SHOKT OTHERWISE.

25102

T Tha (istor) Caso (5!

Tho Prime Case Y(s):

Y Tha Gimno) Case 7(5)

1-2844

Classified by

Declassity on: OADA

1KK

(s)

Tho Cangy Case

& Peneiration oi (tho Yugosiav] Intelligenco Servico (s)

Penetration o3 soytet 112030% operatione (w, n

Scientific Counterattack

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Cuban Matters

Coverage of Mor Soviet-blos Matters (S)

lajor Criminal Investigations

TEK)

2

nel without the

your Commis re

nation outside

3

express approval of

and the content may

Tour

Commintee,

This document is prepared in

4

the

not

I's use

response to

FBI

5

6

be disclosed to unauthorized person-

limited. to.

MOU?

request

official

and

proceedings by

not för dissemi-

7

Holta Case

Baker Case

Antitrust Investigation of

SECRET

Steel Industry

ENGLOSURB

57690- 28

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 3

---

## Page 4

RECENT CHI HIGH LIGITS

Comuniat Party, USA

NON-PERTINENT DATA

NPDE

ExeISE D

SECRET

Zie Soviet leadership in lioscow has expressed its

wholehenrted approval of the lendership of Cus Hall, General Secre-

tary, Communast Perty, USA (CHJ3A), aud has described the CRUSA as

being anaiy

tie leading Conmunist Fartles outside the socialist

48. 1

5668-300

Diuce lato 2930, tho Soviets have furnished the CDiSA with

$1,643, 035 to

finance its subvorsivo activities.

Arost 5500,000

this 800?112

was furniched sno CPUSA duriog 1903.

Te Party has

Kolobaantin, nird Secretary, Coviet Mission to tho United Nations,

is to Soviet laison represontativo with the CrusA. He exchanges

jilcrofiled dostages with his Cuba contact, who la ous source

(UY 094-24) / 2nd

makes perconal contacts whenever urgent messages

ero to ba exchangod. In addition, the Sovlots send lustrucitous

directly fron foscow to cho CPUSA via short-wavo radio broadcasts

ia horse Code,

these nessages are recolvod by our source.

Bluce 1958, representatives of the CPUSA controlled by us

Tolavo nade fousseen sonarate tries to the Soviet Union and satellite

TENDS

countrice for tho rusposo of holding confidential discussions wich

KVAL

top soviet cud sateliato officials. A CUSA reprecontative, vio is

our corco (CG 3531-L*)• has recently returned to this councry

nitor sponding almost n nonth in the soviet Union couterrink with

top cortet piticialsiend ve are still debriefing hin. hereadans the

assessinntion of ineaudent loanody, sourca has ladiestod te Buscins.

{col President lennedy's assassination 13 a very serious situation,

wore synutletle to the extoct they tolled church bells and criti-

cized aucialennedy footing in Red China as "beneath contenot." tes

•Sovicts felt corinin interests in the United States would utilize

no sosassination to supp negatations ten bussis and socialist

countries, accack Cuba aid then sprond the was. As a result of this

feeling, Russia imediately vent into a stato of national alert. sAs

e rosuld of en coverare of these trips wo have disseminated to

Officials 02 Our Covertent much sought arter intelligence data wich

has heen used in shapiug foreign policy.

2gos, we outnined valuable intormation pertaining to tho souletst

for exarple,

reaction to the signing os the nucleas test ban treats.

The Crusa is assisting the Soviots on a very limited basis

and on a hich level in their intelligonce operations in this comiry.

da October,

1903, Colobashkin requested his CPU3A contact (NI 031-04)

the nones or three individuals sho are Anerican citizens

not nssociatod with the cruss in order that the Soviets could use

there individuals in taoir Intolligence oporations in the United

States.

Inose banes have not as yet been furnished to the soviets.

Whoa they aro, they will bo names of people we will control.

Declass

Counten and the Horse lovengut

the CrusA is currently concentrating 1ts efforts on

tho racial unrest vith tho hopoos establishior a political:

veapon da the form of a Negro-labor coalition.

A key to the

This demiment is prre.ca

upe snot for dissemi-

chimps bly

ration radsi?:

20ur Corr.

SECRET

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Penetration

Scutet-bloe Intelligenco Services Cy

The Soviet bloc countries are conqueting & massive,

well-coordinated espionage pitace against this country.

November 20,

1083,

there wore 285 knows or highly suspocted (S)

Soviet bioe in

olligence ofticors in the United States assigned

to the various

establishments of the soviet bior in tila country.

to thuart their efforts ve have conducted an all. out

offensive to perecrate their organizacion, defect their personnel

and develop those

defectors in the very heart of their intell

tence apparatus.

have been unusually successful in developing

such desectors.

(ul

The Fedora

Case

for exange, one soviet orticer (code name decora

negan coopereens Ju nay.

He is an officer of the kes

(Committce o2 Stato Security of the Josh) ensigned to the soviet

Miasion to the United lation®

He has furninhed information

regarding approsinately 60 agents being operated by KOB oillcers

in various countries or the wore.

Six of these are actually

FBI double agents operating against cao K03 )CU

This office, alco furnishes

Inside information fron

KGB headquarters.

example, Sons Bucento, an Anerican

engineer,

were arrested

on espionage chosges detober 29, 1903.

Three oches KCB officers

stenched to the Soviet

Mission to the

United Nations were expelled

fron the United Stotes Zor their complicity in the conspiracy.

Ou detectos was able ta tell us of the estreme consternation

et kos headquarters.

Ong third of the KGB scientific espionaga

officers in New York hadbeen lost at one stroke LalW

The Tophat Case (S)(y

Jack Edward

Dunkep was an Army sergeant assigned to

sho National Security Agenoy (NSA) who comitted Busezaa, he

night of July 22/23, 1905.

Ale widow, on August 20, 1953, 118a

nished Army investigators

trelve classicied Government docunancs

attle after his death.

After the

FbI entered the case Auguss

22, 1963, additional classified

docurents were round and bunken's widow aunitced Dunles hoo

admitted to her before his suicide

that he was selling informa

tion to the Soviets. (4(U)

We received verification of this from an excellent

source.

In 1961 we had develonad & Sovlat intelligence otticer

(code nane Tophat) mo had turnoned valuable dacn to us until

his return to the Soviet Union. Prior to his return he agreed

to 11l1

a drop in loscow on specuriod dares in Juas, july or

August, 1963, and placo & spocliled signal.

CIA agreed to

clear

the drop with Biate Departient approval. our source

made no signal on any of the agreed dates.

CIA waG WiLLiDE

3

MET TUNE ROON

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NPRE

do clear the crop in suly, but state declined

mpermit it.

With

Btate approvalich cleared the drop in August and found & very

importans nessage wisch said, in part:

"Most important agent

Jack coward outap, & Minore Street,

Glen Burnie, Maryland, at

He cane to kostyuk himself May, 1961."

(ilkhail Kostyuk was

Soviet A12' Attache,

anassy, Washiagton, D. Co, fron July,

1058, to Auguet, 29620)

SECRET

the complete message and tho nannes in

each de Pes pied la tea dros indicates it me probauly plocod.

the drep in June, 1903.

Find the State Dapartnent pernicted

CiA to clear the duop in early July, epproprance measures couLd

nave been taken against lublay palor to his suicide S

me Nicknarls |Case

Harche less,

we successfully delected and operated(S

in place anothes

the Govlet Mission to tho United

Rations code name Lunack)

He hasturnished us documents of (S

including Covie@ craluations or the defense SJ

Instellations

in the

York and Boston aress.

Unitod StatesCS

(Ais force has

advisee

thes these Bovlay docurents

sorplete ands"

accurate reports or

and cunsbilitlestor the

worth Auer. [s

2can Air Perenso

were fritten.

Intornation

on our installations

ontainenty ine Novsets through reconnass

eance and through the

mobite electronie deviens. (S)

source is

in the Soviet Union.

Through aalS)

ingenious

method he reser

comunicatod with us

an d

turnished (S

insornation

of significan%

mlitary intelligance.

The liter

8889

During

Novenber

1952, we defectodand are no, developing

CS]

United Natioas

Secretarist.

furnish

indornacion of appoliaical nature,

Which he has agraed to do (S)

Jane (prime case E)

Marly in 1963

developed as a defectos in place the CSJ

clerk at the Polis

united

Nations Delegation in New York:

City (code none Prims)

Trough

Intormation furnished us by this (S]

sounce, the united atates Governent one daily basis is able to

(S]

resentative in Now

• Yorke

evaluated this source noting that

could not be bougat

allars and raould very well

communications intelligence superhalllof this century

REVIEWED

WUFK TASK FORCE

ON 10/29/58:80

Returni

FULL

AELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 6

---

## Page 7

The Ginne Cas

optenber

1952, the cooperation of a nember

United Nationg Mission was obtained

volunitous

information

inrough this source ve have outained sohul

concerning Csechoslovakian intelligence

(S]

operarions

in the United States.

Xinis

particular

defector in pince has returned to fzechostovaila and has agreed

furnish insornation

Ixon there. lo

The [Candy Caseyes

Jur indormant entered the United States as & hungarian

refugee

PrOSCON®

and dispatch

nasiginente,

able doubie

location of Longe

the United States

1 Nepruary, 1951, Lander cover of the liungarian Relugee(

Pecruitment in Hungary so an illocal ageniCS

the United

States with high-level intelligence

hug successiully carried out an extronely valu.

fole under our

age ballistic missiles in several areas of

Penetration os

the Y4

devolored the Pirat Secretary of Che (S)

Yugoalev

Ambassy

we have obuained.

operations in

Yugoslav Governeat 2n

As a resale of

action has been initiate

lenown to

alued

Penetration of Soviet

andes Keuboi2) as

• 301:C0+

Through hin

ratiar picture of CugoslaT Lutelligence LS.

States,

as well as policy prange

eating wich important political Steus-S

hoertion furnishod by this source,

do neutgalaze Bis Government employees

Yugoslav intelligence sources

1110

cel Oneration] €$(a)

Important in the

Coviet bioc intelligence system is

the undercover or illegal

gent sent to this country who has

no diplomtic or official.

le is the sopnisticate of

espionage who unes fraudulemt docunents, elaborate codes, secret

2. 211453 p

microilln and covert tinancial support to avold detection.

Networks pi illegal agonts serve to bolster the espionage activa

itles of Soviet-bloe official and are prepared to trte over all

espionage operations in the event of war or other energency waich

results in a brosi of aaplomate solations. (l (u)

To noutralize the threat posed by this illegal appari

tus we have resorted to highly

conventional and anaginacive

teeniques nich have resulted 1

our penetration of & nunser

of these operations.

One oi these operations luvolves the eno

Soviet, illegal arents using the identitles of Robert b. Baltch

and Joy Anu Baltch who vere arrested by us in Washington, D.

this summer and are presently avalting trish.

The prineipa()(u)

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Government wi

INPD

155

in this prosecution w!

be a Soviot illegal

agent who was

successfully doubled by us over four years ago

and has been operating ageinst the Soviets evor since.

He is

& Soviet MIlitary Intelligence Officer (code name Karot) who

entered this country through fraudulent documents in December

1958•

He was uncovered by us two nonths aiter his entry. Sl

Sciontific Countera

caC

One

Of OUr

most valuable contributions in the security

old has been

nate procurement. of

materials IS

Ein the United States for usa

CS.

these operas

have involved the

opening of intricate lotting mechanisms

Cs]

the penetration

and subsequent restoratios of their

the value off

material (SJ

obtained by this Bureau from 47 foreign establistments has been CS

520,505, 000.o the real word

of the material,

Lies 1x

its Incalculable intelligence value to agencies and officials or

our Govérment. )

EK Act., 5 (9) (2) (D.)

Cuber Matters

Our investigations in the Cuban nrea have been most

intense since Castro ascended to power January 1, 1959.

We have

SENDS

concentrated not only on pro-castro individuals but on such

iDENTIFY

Groups as the lair Play for Cuba Conmittee, organized 2u New Yorl:

SENSITIVE

City in Aoril, 1960, to serye as a propaganda organ for Castro.

thee Harvey Oswald,

accusod assassinator of President Kennedy,

FOREiGN

claimed to head a chapter of this group in New Orleans.

INTELLIGENCE

We have specialized coverage of Chred higholevel Cuben 5)

SOURCES

intelligence agents whose activities are being alrected iron Cuba

through clande king

$]

AND / OR

METHODS

intelligence activities against this country are cooperaz nee

the 1EI and their activitles are now being directed against the

Cuban Government

In late October, 1963, one of our sources, who has thols]

confidence

of Cuban

Foreign MIMeS paul dos Gascia

and tho

Foreign

Minister's

Cuban Ambassador

624 202 BOUr,

(53 was senito

to visit wint hau

Vital intomation

concerning the

excent of Castro's influence

South America and

future plans of the Cuban Government was obtained

Covorago of (Tion-Soviet plod Matters

$(S)

(s) No maintain coverage of certain non-Soviet bloc countries:

In order to produce intelligence information of value to

the variou

United States Goveriment agencies.

One of the principal moane oi

acconplishing this is by mintaining tochnical surveillances on

foreign diplomatic establishments in this country.

of today we

nave such surveillances

o Tailferent countries

NPDE

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NPDE.

•s Frequeatly

Te insiltute special covos

•y to establish

ine accivitles and catacts of various internat shally known

angures who visit this country such as Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu of S

south Vietnam, Chaddi. Jagan, Larzist Prime Minister or British

Guiana, and Cathal Goulding, Chiof of Stais of the Irish Repubi

Lican Arny who was here last nonth to obtain United states support

1ox his organizatios. We have just completed special coverage vi

this nature on Juan Bosch, deposed President of the Doninican

Repubiie.

this was done at the specific request of the Honorable

Ralph A. Dungan, of the White Ilouse Stall, and resulted in pro-

cucing information showing that Bosch is conducting an active

campaign urgins that

the Dominican people overthrow the army.

AS a result pr oui coverage of Cheddi Jagan, we have CS_

Learned that his united states representative 1s considoring

asking the Cubans and Fussians to proparo a plan for guerrilla

wartare, in Bricies Guianà.

We have also come up with strong CS.

indications the Soviets are financially

supporting(Jasan through (SJ

communist contacte in tho United States.

Major Criminal Investigations

10if& Case

The two principal

cases in which james Riddle Hofia,

President of the loansters

union, is now under indictment include

an indiotment of Mofia and Six othors at Nashville on May

on charges of Obstruction o Justice and the indictnent of Hotta

and seven others in Chicago

on June 4, 1963, for mail fraud, fraud

by wire and conspiracy.

Tript date in the Nashville case set fer

January 6, 19648

and tentatige trial date on the Chicago case sot

for February 3, 1965.

Baker Case

We have received thinty-eight requests from the depart

ment

tor inquiries regarding popsicle contlice of interest or

fraud against the Govornment on the part of Bobert G. Baker,

forner Senate Majority secretar

Antitrust Investigation of Steel Industry

On October at, ISes,

the uniltrust Division requested

ve locate witnesses and review hotel registration records to

determine whether representatives of steed coupanies were in

Now fors Caly and Cincimatl, Ohio, for neetings on the same

dates tron 1955 to date. This is to assist a grand jury inquiry

authoriaod by the Attorney beneral and former president Kennedy

1a0 ing into pricing activitios of stee companies on lour major

steel products.

2h23 grand jury in effect is a continuation ol

the 1962 grand

jury inquiry relative to the increase of steel

prices on April 10, 1962.

The investigation requested of the

sureas by to Antitzust Elvicion has loon completod.

Case Involving Bonning of Canadion Protghter

To are investigating the bonning on September 6, 1963,

at Chicago of the Canadian freighter,

"Howard I. Shaw," which

appears to be a direct result of a jurisdictional dispute between

CRA

NW 66327 Docld:32195995 Page 9

---

