JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90146-10090
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-93072-100
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: — 07/05/1963

‘PAGES: = 66

SUBJECTS :
RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: . 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/06/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

ennedy Assassination Records|
‘allection Act of 1992 (44 USC

7 Note), Caset:Nw 64578
2: 12-14.20

v9.1
NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 1

29


3105-93072 Date:

j Subject: Richard phona€binson nae

i All logical variations of subject's name and ST were searched and

July 5, 1963
Date Searched: 1/28/63

identical references trere found ast

ue
} RiMard Thomas Sibson
Mibson:

: sun tion obtained from a review
in Bureau files under the

eforences under the above

he subject have been included
a having been

e infor

tion as

synorsis of +
cases the or

Norman »

7 ullins : : Q re, I05- ZB O74 <« £0
16.0 Mare Pe ot LIL: an
excunsure i (oa R-8) @7 JUL 5 1963

Enel. Behind’ File

»
Seger Ships only E

Cape *

\NW 64578 Docld:32339258~Page 2° - te we



On 11/20/62 Joaquin Sanchez Recio, 608 Olimpo, Miramar,
Santurce, Puerto Rico, former employee of the Cuban Consulate, NYC,
during 1859 and 1960 and the Cuban UN Mission in 1960, advised that
Richard Gibson or Gilson, a colored man, brought material to the Cuba )
UN Mission for translation for use of the FPCC as propaganda.
SJ rpt. 1/23/63 (NY 105-41246)
, Re: Joaquin Sanchez Recio
IS-Cuba

105-88611-30 p. 5
tse

An article captioned, "Union Leader Here Forming Group Aimed
at Giving Cuba Fair Play". appeared in the "Cleveland Press and News,"
a daily local newspaper, in its issue of 12/9/60. According to the
article, Richard B. Tussey, who was forming a Cleveland Chapter of the
FPCC and who was a member of the national committee of the FPCC, advised
that Richard Gibson, former CBS newsman, was also a member of the
national committee of the FPCC. L

CV 288-S.advised that a combined membership and public
meeting of the Cleveland Chapter of the FPCC was held 2/5/61 at Cleveland.
According to the informant, Ed Shaw of Detroit, identified by the
source as mid-West co-ordinator for the FPCC,was the principal speaker.
Shaw explained the purpose of the FPCC and stated the committee was
started by Robert Tabor, of NY, a former CBS newspaper reporter who had
spent a lot of time in Latin America and several months with Fidel
Castro in Cuba during and after the revolution. Shaw related that
Tabor became annoyed with the false reports the American Press was
sending out of Cuba. According to Shaw, Taber together with Gibson,
identified by source as Acting National Secretary of the FPCC, managed
to obtain enough money to run a full page ad in the "NY Times" which
opposed the American Press reports and brought the truth about Cuba
and the Castro Government to the American people. uy

CV rpt. 11/22/61
Re: Richard Berlin Tussey
SM-SWP

100-68340-27 p. 1,4,8
(15)

~3A-

bow
i

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 3


cep i

a

: According to "The NY Times" of 3/1/61, the Liberation
Committee for Africa was headed by Daniel Watts, 37, and architect,’
as President and Richard Gibson, a graduate student and former news
writer, as Secretary. Watts, according to the source, claimed a
nationwide membership of 400, mostly Negroes, whose goal was to aid
"African Freedom Fighters" and promote awareness of a common heritage
of Afro-Americans and Africans.

NY airtel 7/11/61 enclosing
letterhead memo (NY 100-141416)
' Re: Afro American Alliance For
Action Racial Matters
105-87964-111 encl. p. 4

(22.0 :
st 105<20110-103 p. 4,18 (NY 100-114769)}.

(20WAdd. infa,,acgording to

: NY 3164s SOYA

. SI 105587964-100 B.f27 (NY 105-40092)
(22) 7”

On 5/19/61 Arthur Clark, Manager, Chase Manhattan Bank,
14th St. and Fifth Ave., Nyc (protect identity) advised that on
4/25/61 Richard Gibson, of the FPCC, drew a check payable to
"Liperation" in the amount of $30.00. Clark said this check was
endorsed by rubber stamp endorsement "Liberation" and was deposited

Hl in a branch of the Chemical Bank NY Trust Company where "Liberation"
i had an account. ly

NY letter 8/25/61 (NY 97-2125)
5 Re: Non-Violent Committee For
| Cuban Independence

i Is Cuba

: RA Cuba

97-4567-30 p. 1
Wee :

t
| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 4


cc -. )

| ce - On 3/1/61 NY 1924-S advised that Richard Gibson was, acting
Executive Secretary of the FPCC.

(1 3164-s¥boserved Elinor Ferry in the office of the FPCC,
799 Broadway, NYC, on 5/16/61 and at the time was calling various
airlines in an attempt to obtain a reservation for Gibson, ‘who was to

| travel to Chicago, on 5/19/61. % ;

Add. info.

NY rpt. 8/1/61 (NY 100-115461)
Re: Elinor Cecelia Ferry, aka.
SM-SWP

100-388988-87 p. 3,7 .
caiead Pp. 3,

On 5/24/61 Richard Gibson, Executive Secretary of the FPCC
in NY, spoke at an FPCC reception, which was held in his honor, at the
home of Richard Tussey, 3054 Euclid Heights Blvd., Cleveland Heights,

6/20/61). 4

The 4/18/61 issue of the "Cleveland Plain Dealer" identified
Richard Tussey as Chairman of the Cleveland Branch of the FPCC.

CV rpt. 7/27/61 (cc: NY)
‘Re: Joe Jaffe, aka.
IS-Cuba __

105-98374-4 p. b,5,6
(23),

~6-

Ohio (CV-489-S 5/25/61, CV-288-S 5/26/61, CV-230 6/16/61 and CV-504-PSI

r

i

j NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 5


oS)

: Captain Loren Herfurth, Flint, Mich., PD (protect identity)
and DE 716-S separately advised on 5/26/61 that Richard Gibson, Acting
National Secretary of the FPCC, and Edward Shaw, Midwest Regional
Director of the FPCC, were speakers at an FPCC gathering at Flint, wsf
Mich., on 5/25/61 (no further details). y —

DE rpt. 2/16/62

Re: Alice Shirley Foster, aka.
SM-C

eae p. 2

(15)

CV 288-S advisedon 5/26/61 that Richard Gibson was then
National Secretary of the FPCC. UW

Add. info. according to CV-273-S on 3/29/61 and duplicate
informants. uy Fa eee

cv rpt. 7/30/62 ee
Re: snake Lou Reinthaler, aka. 7
SM-SWP

100-397280-26 p. b,i, 10,14 i

By letter dated 6/12/61 Paul M. Cocot, Attorney and
Counselor, %540 North Pulaski Road, Chicago 41, I11., furnished the |
Bureau a copy of the 5/27/61 issue of "Glos Ludowy, "a Polish: English- i
language newspaper published in Detroit, which followed the CP line. A
Cocot called attention to an advertisement on page 10 which announced i
a lecture by Richard Gibson who claimed to be a traveler and newspaperman
for the Columbia Broadcasting System and who appeared to be pro-Castro. Y

By letter dated 6/20/61 the Bureau acknowledged Mr.Paul M.
Cocot's letter. \ '

Serial described above !
100-129861-849 i
(15) \

\ NW 64578 Docid:32339258 Page 6


Gi
(>

: On 6/7/61 W. C. Benedetti, Northgate Printing, 1410 East
41st, Seattle, advised on that date Danny Freeman requested an order |
of 200 tickets to be printed which were tickets to hear Richard Gibson;
Acting National Secretary of the FPCC, at a meeting sponsored by the
Seattle FPCC and the University of Washington Student Council, FPCC,
scheduled for 6/13/61, at 604 University Street. The tickets’ disclose
that Gibson would talk on the topic, "Lessons of Alabama and Cuba."

Add. info. according to SE 736-S.

SE rpt. 2/7/62
Re: Daniel Arthur Freeman, aka. |

SM-SWP
100-426728-28 p. 21-23
(17)

Richard Gibson, National Executive Secretary of the FPCcCc,
at a meeting sponsored by the Student Council, FPCC on 6/14/61,
Seattle, urged the FPCC to extend its influences, gain new members, and
non-member support. Gibson stated the purpose of the FPCC was to tell
the truth about Cuba (SE 648-S and SE 742-S on 6/16/61). Y

SE rpt. 4/20/62

Re: Arthur Richard Mink, aka.

SM-SWP

100-57988-80 p. 3,4

(15)

SI 100£438639-1 p. 10 ~

(20)\AHarley Lewis Kelley, 5526
17th NE, Seattle, Wash.

(Panel Source} (protect identity)

and Florence Elizabeth Kuzina -

2434 E. Miller, Seattle, Washington

(Panel Source) (protect identity)

on 6/16/61) (both had furnished

reliable information in the past)

~8-

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 7


a

i
i>

|

-Sanitation, etc., and criticized the US for its action against babad |

On 6/16/61 SE 736-S and SE 742-PSI advised that on 6/14/61
an informal meeting and reception for Richard Gibson sponsored by the
Seattle Student Council, FPCC was held at Seattle, Washington. At
this affair Gibson talked about Cuba and emphasized how the Cuban
people viewed the revolution as an improvement in education, housing,

and indicated that the FPCC's primary aim was to get the truth abou
Cuba to the American people.

Add. info. according to SE 742-PSI and SE S on:6/16/6
and 8/11/61 and duplicate informants. 4

SE rpt. 11/21/61

Re: Robert Eugene Patrick, aka.
SM-SWP .

Hp es 63 p. 20,21

ase {
~6381- 30 p. 6 Y
tis} 29)"(Add. info. according
to SE 742-PSI and SE 736-S;
6/16/61)

On 6/16/61 Cliff Carrico, Office of Security, CIA, made h
available the following contents of an intraoffice CIA memorandum: | '
"Source advised that on 6/9/61, a sales conference was held id
at Beacon Press in Boston, Mass., by Edward Darling. At the sales uy)
meeting, Darling stated that they were going to publish a book on Cuba, |
by Waldo Frank. Source stated he then questioned Darling as to whether :
or not the book was pro-Castro. Darling stated it was slightly

pro-Castro, but it went much deeper than that. Source said an argument
ensued as to whether or not the book should be published and although

the majority of the sales force was opposed to publishing the book,

Darling was going to go through with the publication.

Source stated he then, through various publishing firms in
NYC, determined that the book had been turned down by Carleton Beals,
who’ had returned the book to Frank without even reading it, with the
statement that he would not even read paid propaganda no léss .publish it

Beals advised Source he should see Richard Gibson and Lyle li
Stewart, both of whom could collaborate that Raul Roa had made a grant
of $7, 060 to Frank to go to Cuba to write the book.
(continued on next page) ( ‘\:

-9-

/

1
NW 64578 Docid:32339258 Page 8



(continued)

Source advised he sought out Gibson, the secretary of the
FPCC, who testified before a Congressional Committee and when asked
the color of his politics stated it was the same as the color of his
skin, black. Gibson told Source to avoid Frank and not to have anythj
to do with Frank's book, as it had been bought and paid for by Castr

Source advised that when he contacted Stewart, Stewart
confirmed the fact that he told Gibson to stay away from the book, and
Frank, because Raul Roa had purchased Frank, and the book was nothing
but propaganda paid for by Castro (X) uy

Carrico advised that the source of the information was
Felix Morrow, a personal friend, who had attended the American Book
Seller's Convention in Washington, D.C. and who contacted Carrico for
the purpose off seeking assistance in keeping the book from being
publ ished., a) :

Bureau memo, 6/19/61
Re: Waldo Frank

IS-Cuba

100-259110-35 Dod Y
(15) :

DN 215-S advised on 6/19/61 that a meeting of the Denver
Branch, FPCC was held at the residence of Nellie Garcia,.a member of
the Executive Board, FPCC, Denvér, Colorado, on 6/18/61, which featured
Richard Gibson of NYC. Qu)

This meeting, according to the informant, was conducted
in an. informal manner and consisted mainly of a discussion led by
Gibson, who pointed out it was his belief that although the FPCC was
rather unpopular with the public at that time, things were getting
better, especially since the aborted invasion of Cuba. -Gibson stated
people were beginning to realize that charges made by the FPCC that the
CIA and the US Government were involved in the invasion were true. He
stated this worked out in extreme favor for the FPCC. x (a

Gibson gave out pointers as to how members of the FPCC should
conduct themselves if interviewed by FBI Agents or if called before
the HCUA.

xu)
(continued on next page)

-10-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 9



C mo m)
: 7
(wy : :
Hy NY 3164-S}on 5/16/61 advised that on that date he observed
Elinor fer

ry in the office of the FPCC at 799 Broadway, NYC, at which
time she was calling various airlines in an attempt to obtain reservation
for Richard Gibson, who was to travel to Chicago, Illinois, on 5/19/01. SR

NY 711-S advised that at a meeting of the NY Local, SWP held on
5/25/61 at SWP Hdors., 116 University Place, NYC, Richard Garza,
Organizer, NY Local, SWP, urged the acceptance of Blinor Ferry into the
NY pera. (I and she was, according to the informant, accepted by the

members. |

During July, 1961 NY 3253-S* advised that on 7/21/61 Helen
Lorenson (phonetic) contacted Gibson at the FPCC Hdars. NYC and advised
him that she had a message to contact Elinor Ferry. According to
informant, Lorenson told Gibson with relation to this message that she
had been instructed by Alger Hiss to call him. KW

On 3/1/61 NY 1924-S advised that Gibson was Acting Executive :
Secretary of the FPCC. lu) i a
NY rpt. 8/30/61 (NY 105-10101)
: Re: Alger Hiss t
IS-R i

: 101-2668421 p.3,4
(20 oe a

i
The 7/24/61 issue of the "National Guardian" contained an {
article.entitled "July 26 Dance" to be held 7/22/61 at the Leonardo |
Da Vinci Hall, 350 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. According to the

article, Richard Gibson, Acting National Chairman, FPCC, was to be K
included amongst the quests of honor at this dance.

1
|
on i
97-3243-A "National Guardian" j

(2) \ 7/24/61 a

On 7/27/61 NY 3253-S advised that ‘Richard Gibson, Acting
National Executive Secretary, FPOC, NYC, was in contact with David
Dellinger at "Liberation:" ‘and discussed the money which the FPCC
owed Dellinger for printing the "lost bulletin." i
NY letter 9/12/61 (NY 100-121672)
enclosing letterhead memo i
Re: David Dellinger H
IS-Cuba
SH-C u
109s 36yd11-4x1 encl.p.2
(16) i

|

(SIT on next page)

-12- -

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 10


Cy
OQ

(continued)

SI 100-384411-5 p. 5,7
(16)Madd. into.)

Correlator's Note: CV 975-S" advised on 10/15/61 that Gibson stated
that publication "Fair Play," which was the official publication

of the FPCC was published by the Liberation Press, NY, owned by
Dellinger. Gibson stated that the FPCC owed $300 to this concern and
that: 10,000 copies of the lost issue were printed (see 100-384411-6
p- 5, (NY 100-121672) (Not indexed). ¥ (Wy

On 7/28/61, Felix Morrow, 1601 Jericho Turnpike, New Hyde
Park, NY (protect identity),who had furnished reliable information
in the past, advised that he received a letter from Edward Darling,
Director of, the Beacon Press, Boston, Mass. Darling,in the letter,
disclosed that Lyle Stuart told him (Darling) + hé (Stuart) and
Richard Gibson, as representatives of the FPC had a meeting with
Raul Roa, Cuban Foreign Minister (date and plat@ not given). At
this meeting, Roa told Gibson and Stuart that Waldo Frank had received
a grant of $4 000.00 to visit Cuba and write a book. Roa was somewhat
perturbed with Frank because he was taking so long and that the Cuban
Government had received nothing for their money. Informant advised
that Stuart and Gibson were the only two persons who had direct
imowledge of the $7,000.00 grant. Informant concluded that he did not
believe Stuart or Gibson would care to discuss the ture of their
meeting with Roa with any governmental organizat oma) (Q)

Add. info. according to PH 575-S and duplicate informant. Y

NY rpt. 9/15/61 (NY 100-55873) :
Re: Waldo David Frank’

RA-Cuba

100259110 2 Y
100-259110-39 p. a,b

(ie a

-13-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 11


oY

re
ova

On 8/16/61 LA 4000-S stated that at a meeting of the

Executive Committee of the Los Angeles Chapter of the FPCC (LAFPCC)
held at- 3751 Tracy St., Los Angeles on 7/31/61, Martin Hall, Chairman
of the LAFPCC, stated that he was concerned over the close affiliation
between the LAFPCC and the July 26th Movement because of the latter's
registration as a "foreign agent" with the US Government, and that
Hall said that he and Steve Roberts, West Coast Representative of the
FPCC, would write Richard Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary
of the FPCC, for a statement of policy. x (vu)

LA rpt. 9/29/61 (cc:NY)

Re: July 26th Movement, Los Angeles
Calif. (Comite De Relaciones
Publicas Del 26 De JulioDeLos Angeles,
Calif.) :

IS-Cuba *

RA-Cuba YU s

97~3439~86 p. 54
aera

NY 3253-S* advised on 7/31/61 that Richard Gibson, Acting
National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, had been in contact with
Dagoberto Molerio, a prominent member of the July 26th Movement, NY
on that day, and asked him if he- would consent to act as his replacement
in the event "something happened" to him, Molerio replied that he would
have to discuss the matter with his attorneys. X (wo

LA rpt. 1/24/62 (ce:NY)

Re: July 26th Novement, Los Angeles,
Calif. (Comite De Relaciones Publicas
Bel 26 De Julio De Los Angeles)
IS-Cuba

RA-Cuba,”

97-3435-88 p.s = U

Q)

-14-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 12



(Ww NY 3164-SHadvised in 8/4/61 that Walter Bowe was present
at FPCC hdgrs., 799 Broadway, NY, NY, where he-had a conversation
with Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary of the FPCC, concerning
the possibility of starting a Washington, D.C. Chapter of the FPCC. Y

NY rpt. 8/23/61, (NY 105-47199) :
Re: Walter Augustus Bowe
ISs-Cuba

eee eadl p. 6 Y

On 6/21/61 SE 507-S advised that Richard Gibson spoke at
a public meeting sponsored by the Seattle FPCC and the Seattle Student
Council, FPCC, held at Seattle on 6/13/61. Gibson spoke about his
experiences as a writer, lecturer, and his visit to Cuba in 1960. He
said the FPCC was an organization to tell the truth about Cuba; that
this was the basis on which people should join the organization and
"not as a political front" and that the FPCC was a revolutionary
movement. yy

On 8/11/61, Florence Blizabeth Kuzino, 2434 E. Miller St.,

Seattle, Washington, Panel Source (protect identity), who had furnished l
reliable information in the past, advised that on 8/9/61 Clara Fraser, i
a leader in the Seattle Branch SWP, made a report to a joint meeting i
of the Student Council FPCC and "Ad Hoc" Committee for the organization
of an adult FPCC in Seattle on a contact she had with Gibson in NY
concern nd the organization of an adult chapter of the FPCC.~ According
to the informant, Gibson was anxious that the organization be started
-to establish a chapter of the FPCC in Seattle and gave her several

- suggestions to further this aim. Informant said Gibson stressed the

importance of getting such a chapter started, no matter how few they !

started with; that once the official organization was there, the members i

would soon be there and that several members should be well versed on |

the Cuban situation so there would be a reserve of prepared individuals

who could speak when the occasion arose. vA

SE rpt. 5/31/62 , \
Re: Josephine Helen Patrick, aka. :
100-232772-37 p. 9,17,18
100-2 2-37 p. 1
tt a : 217, 4

5 é
SI 1004329148-37 p. 8
(16)V(SE 736-S on 6/16/61, SE 742-S
on 6/16/61 and duplicate
informant) (Add. info.)

(SI's continued on next page)

-15-

|
NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 13


a =:

(continued)

SI_100-430386-9 p.14 (NY 100-145575)
(18) WCAdd. info.) (SE 736-S and
SE a4eor st on 8/16/61) uy
SI _100-339857-60 p.1
: a5)
SI 1094437482-1 p.8,9
(20)“(SE 742-S on 6/16/61 and
SE 736-S on 6/16/ 61 and 8/14/61)
( ;
CSLA 3184-S advised on 8/15/61 that Rosemary Jacci €orden, Ree
31614 Future St., Los Angeles, was arrested by the Los Angeles PD on
8/11/61 on which occasion she was found to have in her possession a
membership card of the FPCC signed by Richard Gibson; and that the
telephone address directory then listed Rosalind Lindesmith, who had
been active in the CP since 1934, at 3161% Future St., Los Angeles,
telephone CA 2-1572. UU,

LA rpt. 12/7/62

Re: Rosalie Rodriguez, aka
IS-Cuba 8

105-10. 7-10 p.12 i
(28) : uw

CIA, Washington, D.C., advised by letter dated 10/31/61, |
that it had received information from a usually reliable and highly i
sensitive source that John Underwood Rigsbee visited the Cuban Embassy i
in Mexico City, Mexico, on 8/18/61, in an effort to get in touch with |
Robert Taber, National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, in Havana.
According to the source, Rigsbee indicated he was sent by Dick .Gibson, |
Acting National Secretary of the FPCC, from NY, and made reference to
"Fair Play," presumably the FPCC. 7 uw)
i
i

Source also reported that on the same date, Rigsbee sent a
cable to Taber in Havana, Cuba, in which he advised he was in Mexico
at the Cuban Embassy. Rigsbee requested Taber to send him a visa
and also requested Taber telephone him at the Cuban Embassy. Rigsbee

further mentioned that the Ministry of Foreign Relations in Havana
had the original letter from Gibson and Jones. Shes

Serial described above :
100-fA8017-10 (co:NY) 1
(17428)
SECRET,

i.
. r ST_1p@-418017-16 p.7 : -
Cr YLCTA Bprotect Feereiwn (Qs
: j ‘ Y T05-46059)

-16-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 14


Bu

4 This reference in the file captioned "Committee To Aid
The Monroe Defendants" set out lengthy information concerning the
activities of Richard Gibson, during September, 1961, in conjunction
with the formation of a defense committee to obtain financial support
and counsel for Robert Ff. Williams and other defendants involved in
the racial incident at Monroe, N.C., on 8/27/61. Information was also
set out on how Gibson was trying to stop the SWP from taking over the
defense committee. \

NY rpt. 10/31/61 (NY 100-146359)
Re: Committee To Aid The Monroe
Defendants

IS-SWP 5
100-436091-29 p.9-11,13-15 val
(19)

On 9/11/61 TP 27-S who was acquainted with certain phases of i
pro-Castro activities and individuals in the Tampa, Florida, area, i
advised that Angelina Amparo Alcala received a letter during September, :
1961 from Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary, FPCC. According
to source, Gibson thanked Mrs. Alcala for a previous letter sent to him ba
by Mrs. Alcala and further mentioned in his letter that the FPCc had }
exchanged mailing lists with the Prometheus Book Club, and that the :
FPCC had obtained new members and subscribers as a result. K(W)

TP rpt. 11/30/61
Re: Angelina Amparo Alcala, aka. ‘
IS-Cuba :

105-102898-4 p.2
aes aN

- an
(0) CG 6474-on 9/7/61 advised that in September, 1961 the name 2
290 |

Arcuimedes Sayas, 4 West Armitage, Chicago, I11., was in the
possession of Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary, FPCC, NYC, NY.

CG rpt. 12/22/61
Re: Juan Arquimedes Sayas
Costa aka

TS-Cuba
105- soafo7-1 p.6 Y
(25)

-19-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 15



DUST

PH-575-S on 9/7/61 advised that a meeting of the Young
Socialist Alliance (YSA) Club of Philadelphia took place at 3502
Powelton Ave., Apt. 4L,.0n 9/5/61. At this meeting, according to the
informant, a proposal was suggested and passed that the SWP, YSA
and the African Liberation Committee work together and hold a Robert
Williams meeting. At this YSA meeting, according to the source, Dick
Roth disclosed the Party had a committee to back Williams. It was
further revealed at the meeting that Dick Gibson and Conrad Lynn
were said to be working on this. 4

i A Federal Warrant was issued on 8/28/61, at Charlotte, N.C.,
charging Robert Williams with unlawful interstate flight to avoid
prosecution for kidnapping.

PH rpt. 11/30/61 (NY 100-133479)
Re: Young Socialist Alliance
100-427226-348 p. 20

be -348 p.
(28) UY

on 9/7/61RCG 6474-SIdvised on that date the names of Emil
And Hilda Armin, 5738 South Blackstone, Chicago 37, I11., were in
the possession of the Chicago Chapter, FPCC, as either members or
subscribers. These names, according to the informant, had been in
the possession of Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary, FPCC,
799 Broadway, NY 3, NY.

CG rpt. 12/13/61
Re: Hilda Diamond Armin, aka.

SN-C
100-249815-15 p. 5 Ly
(15), |

HY)

Five 6474-Sidvised on 9/7/61 that a list of names received
by the Chicago Chapter, FPCC, from Richard Gibson, Acting Executive
Secretary, FPCC, NYC, for use of the Chicago Chapter in obtaining Hl
renewals, included the name Roy P. Mackal, Dept. Biochemistry, i
University of Chicago, Chicago 37, I11. The list indicated Mackal :
was either a member or a subscriber of the FPCC. z

CG rpt. 1/31/62
Re: Roy Paul Mackal, aka. i
SM-C |
100-435635-8 p. 4 é
(18)

brh -20-

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 16


Co -

NY 3253-Ss advised that on 9/8/61 Thomas Louis Kerry
contacted Richard Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary of the
FPCC, to advise that he had talked. with Berta Green and told her
she,should leave the, FPCC. According to the source, Kerry stated
he had told Green that she had no authority to get involved in the
national affairs of the FPCC. hh

NY 711-S in September, 1961 advised that Green was a member
of the NY Local, SWP. Green, according to the informant, was forced
toiresign her position as secretary with the FPCC upon the instructions
of Kerry, then National Organizational Secretary of the SWP. YS

NY rpt. 4/13/62 (NY 100-59096)
Re: Thomas: Louis Kerry, aka.
$1-8046-108 p. 13
; 1-8046-108 p. 1
: : 1 (1) ~
1

On 9/18/61 NK 2307-S furnished information that Richard ee
Gibson, Executive Secretary of the FPCC, was the principal speaker 5
at an unidentified meeting held on 9/17/61 (place not given). Gibson j
gave a brief talk on Cuba during which he mentioned that the Committee Hae
was desirous in getting college students interested in the Committee, {
that there were films available on Cuba and that a dance sponsored
by the Committee was to be held on 9/30/61. In connection with fi
Gibson's talk, pamphlets were made available. \

NK rpt. 1/30/62 . : i
Re: Ruth Warren nee Ruth Sokoloff ,aka. |

300-43 20
100- -14 p. 1,2
(8) : |
at
\

On 9/19/61 Alan K. Lauckner, Jr., Assistant Treasurer,
Bankers Trust Co., 51 Rockefeller Plaza, NYC (protect identity) who
had furnished reliable information in the past, advised that among
those present at Idlewild Airport to greet Cuban Foreign Minister
Raul Roa upon his arrival in the US for the General Assembly. Session
of the UN, were Richard Gibson, Acting National,Executive Secretary
of the FPCC, and Francisco V. Portela. U)

(contined on next page)

-21-

ens : Ue

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 17


(continued) : wie

According to this informant, upon arrival at the airport,
Portela jgined Gibson and Ambassador Raul Primelles. These three 4
engaged ype lengthy conversation while awaiting Roa's arrival. 4)

The September, 1961 edition of the publication "Members
of Permanent Missions to the UN Entitled to Diplomatic Privileges
and Immunities" disclosed that Sr. Raul Primelles was Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and Deputy Permanent Representative
of the Cuban Mission to the UN. u\

NY 3164-S (date -not given) was unable to furnish any
information concerning the conversation of Portela, Gibson and
Primelles. According to the informant, Portela advised that Prensa °
Latina, Cuban News Agency at NYC, must stay clear of Berta Green
Zuckoff and her group. Source disclosed that a meeting in behalf
of Robert Williams which was to be held by another group (not further
identified) was brought to-Portela's attention, Portela stated "Oh,
(Richard) Gibson is speaking at that affair -- that's okay."

On 4/3/61 NY 711-S advised that Berta Green Zuckoff was a u) tah
member of the SWP. we : H

NY rpt. 11/13/61 (NY 97-1725) :
ve Francisco Valdes Portela, aka. i
folineae f
\

as

NY 3253-S« advised on 9/22/61 that Richard Gibson, the
Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC,in discussing various
individuals for a position with the FPCC, mentioned a woman who had
a child by a Nicaraguan revolutionary. Gibson stated that this ea
woman was very intelligent, md formerly opr eiee by "Vogue" and
"Mademoiselle." Gibson, according to the informant, stated that she
also spoke &nglish. ae Yo

The informant further advised that later during the same
day, Gibson stated he would like to employ a woman named Stasia, “
a beautiful red-headed girl who formerly worked for some fashion
magazine and who was at the Hotel Theresa, NYC, when Fidel Castro was
at the hotel. Gibson stated she was then in Mexico and had a child
by a Nicaraguan revolutionary. yf (ue

Add. info. a ne ; ;
: NY PRE yf / 41/92 (AY 105-5975) |

Re af Sokoliowska v H
-Nicaragua '
~105-119694-3 p. 4,6 al

(25)

~22-

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 18


:
ah
lan
A

NY 3253-Ss advised on 8/22/61 that Bienvenido Efrain Lopez vc
contacted Richard Gibson, FPCC, NYC, and advised he would meet Gibson’
at the FPCC office as he-had a letter to show him (no further

information). XW

The same informant advised on 9/28/61 that Lopez was in
contact with Andre Martinsons, FPCC, and inquired if the FPCC had the
Cuban films, including the film of the invasion. Martinsons stated
he did not know the location of the films but believed that Gibson

| had them. XU)

On 8/21/61 NY 3042-S advised the film "Death of the Invader"
was brought from Havana, Cuba to Toronto, Canada in June 1961 by
Heriberto Gonzalez Fonseca, head of the July 26 Movement in North
America, where, on 6/10/61 they were given to Jose Sanchez, President

“jad the films sent to NY where Lopez was made custodian of the films

of the July 26 Movement in NY. According to the informant, Sanchez X@)

i NY rpt. 10/27/61 (NY 105-44651)
E Re: , Bienvenido Efrain Lopez, aka.
IS-Cuba 0
: 105-93640-11 p 3
(22), |

[TP 27-S advised on'10/3/61 that V. Ted Lee, Chairman of the
! Tampa Bay Chapter of the FPCC, drove from Tampa to Hiami_on 9/30/61
with Harold S. Wilson, Treasurer of the same chapter. According to
the informant, Lee was met by Federico Otero Calero on 10/1/61 and
escorted to an apartment at N.W. 36th St..and 18th Ave., Miami, where
they held a discussion. During the discussion Otero asked Lee what
was going on in Tampa, and Lee said he had been followed by someone
while making deliveries of the newspaper, "Revolucion," official
publication of the Castro Government. Otero said he had tried to find
out what the trouble was in Tampa. He said he had even called Richard
Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC in NY, but
Gibson did not know anything. ral(vs

4) rpt. 11/9/61 (NY 105-47474)
Re: Federico Otero Calero, aka.
! IS-Cuba
: RA-Cuba :
105-97780-20 p..16.  (f
(23)1

-23-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 19



An article entitled "Monroe, North Carolina, Victims of
Racial Injustice Need Your Help," appeared in the 10/2/61 issue of
the "National Guardian." The article listed Richard Gibson, 53
West 125th St., NY 27, NY, as one of the sponsors of the Monroe
Defense Committee. a

Add. info. according to the 10/2/61 issue of the "National
Guardian" page 10.

ii 100~436190-A "National Guardian"
(19) 10/2/61 page 8, 10

On 10/4 and 5/1961 Antonio De Las Matas, 1008 Southwest

9th Court, Miami, Florida, a Cuban exile who until about the middle
of 1961 was closely associated with certain administrative procedures
in the Cuban Ministry of State Offices, Havana, Cuba (protect
identity) and with whom insufficient contact had been made to
determine his reliability revealed that leaders of the FPCC in NY, ap
who were American citizens and with whom the Cuban Government, ha
direct correspondence, were Robert Taber and Richard Gibson.

INM letter, 10/5/61 enclosing
letterhead memo (cc - NY)

e: Raul Roa

Foreign Political Matters - Cuba
-78205-56 encl. p. 2

» 9
ST 105“78205-69 p. 3 \“
1)“(add. info.5 RRC i

TP 27-S advised on 9/26/61 that Vincent Theodore Lee had
allegedly written a letter (date not given) to Richard Gibson,
Chairman of the FPCC in NY, asking to be made the Southern
Representative for the FPCC. K(W)

On 10/3/61 same informant advised that Lee had been taken
to Miami, Florida by H. S. Wilson where they met an individual
known as "Cuba." Lee was reported to have told "Cuba" that someone
had been following him to see where he had distributed the paper
"Revolucion," and that he was through insofar as any further
distribution of the paper was concerned. "Cuba" said that he did
not know what was going on so he called Gibson in NY but that Gibson
did not know anything. Lee told Wilson to write Gibson in NY as
he would not be able to attend the FPCC Conference in Cleveland,
10/14/61 and that Wilson should go in his place. %

(continued on next page) \

-24-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 20



weclk
(continued)

I this informant advised that Gibson said that (the UN
Security Force) sent a Negro security man to talk to him and Watts
(date and place not given) and that this individual stated it wasn't
"personal" but that the pressure was on. Gibson concluded that the
pressure was arising from the US Delegation to the UN. US

According to the NY letterhead memo dated 10/11/61 the
Tass News Agency was the official Soviet Government news gathering
organization with hdgrs. in Moscow, USSR and branches throughout
the world, and the Prensa Latina was a Cuban news agency with hdars.
in Havana, Cuba. The sole office of Prensa Latina was located at
580 Fifth Ave., NYC. XW)
NY airtel 10/11/61 enclosing
letterhead memo (NY 105-42387)
Re: Daniel H. Watts
18-C w

105-96316-3 p. 1, Encl. p. 1,2
Cie : ,

On 10/27/61 CV 489-S made available photographs taken at
the Fair Play For Cuba Banquet held in Cleveland, Ohio on 10/14/61.
According to the source, the man on Worthys right in the photograph
was Richard Gibson. ve

i
i
{

This source on 11/7/61 further advised that Richard Tussey
organizer of the FPCC Chapter in Cleveland and the person responsible
for keeping Fair Play in Cleveland active, introduced Gibson of NY
as the person who took over the responsibilities of running the FPCC
on the national level when the founder Robert Taber, left for Cuba. 2
Source stated that Gibson spoke on the crises in Berlin, Laos and other 1
places in the world (speech set out).

Worthy was the next speaker, According to the informant, i
he etait statements made by Gibson which are set out. 4

A letter directed to the Cleveland office dated 11/21/61
advised that the information set out in the letterhead memorandum would
have to be paraphrased before it would be suitable for dissemination.

CV letter, 11/8/61 (NY 100-114769)
Re: William Worthy, Jr.

IS-Cuba
4
_(20%2

i
SM-c , :
105- ay £109 p. 2, nci. p. 1,8,15,21

|

-26- eas |

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 21



SEGREE

At the 10/1/61 Chicago SWP Branch meeting Howard Mayhew,
Chicago Branch SWP organizer, announced that a second committee,
"Monroe Defendants Committee" (INC), had been formed by Richard Gibson,
Executive Secretary of the FPCC,-.and that the group was made up of
Negro nationalists and members of the CP. According to Mayhew, this
group wanted to oust Conrad Lynn, as Robert F. Williams' legal counsel,
and substitute another lawyer (CG 5926-S-10/2/61, CG 6416-S-10/11/61
and CG 5933-S-10/6/61)

Howard Mayhew, in discussing the Committee to Aid the Monroe
Defendants (CAMD) at the 10/16/61 meeting of the Chicago Branch SWP,
stated that a letter had been received from Mrs. Robert Williams
requesting unity of the CAMD and MDC. u

Mayhew remarked that Richard Criley had turned Robert
Gibson down regarding membership in the MDC, and was for unity of
the two committees. (CG 5926-S-10/16/61, CG 6416-S-10/26/61 and
CG 5933-S-10/20/61).

ce 6344-2 September, 1961 advised that Criley was 4 \
Member of the State Committee of the Illinois District of the CP, USA. "4 i

Add. info. concerning Robert Franklin Williams. XK

CG rpt. 11/29/61 (NY 100-146359) i
Re: Committee To Aid The Monroe ‘
Defendants - Chicago

Is-S

100-J609 ZAR p. 12,14 \
- (19; a i A

On 9/24 and 25/61 NY 3245-Stadvised that "Jigs" Gardner, 78
White Oaks Road, Williams Town, Mass., had contacted Richard Gibson,
FPCC, 799 Broadway, NY 3, NY, by way of letter. Gardner inquired as to
whether it was possible for him and his family to move to Cuba and
whether his experience as a teacher would be of use to Cuba. oe WwW H

BS 808-S on 10/19/61 identified Gibson as Acting Executive
Secretary of the FPCC. L

BS letter, 3/6/62 enclosing

letterhead memo
Re: John Ingraham Gardner, aka.

IS-Cuba é H
105-52716-9 p. 1, Enel. p. 1 {
195539916 : G |:

t

~27-

Ne —

{| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 22


Co C

S
On 10/31/61 NY 3253-S* advised that Richard Gibson, Acting
National Executive Secretary, FPCC, inquired of Bienvenido Efrain
Lopez if he could show some films at the FPCC's meeting in NY on.
11/9/61. Lopez replied that he'had turned in the films and the .
projector to his people because things were not going well. Lopez
stated the 26th of July Movement leaders were missing. RW (L

The July 26th Movement was a revolutionary organization
founded and led by Fidel Castro, Prime Minister of Cuba. wr

oy rpt. 2/9/62 (NY 105-44651)
Re: Bienvenido Efrain’ Lopez
RA-Cuba
IS-Cuba Yu,
105-93640-17 p. 2
(22)

\

On 9/22/61 NH 405-S reported that William Winnick stated
on 9/18/61 (place not given) that Richard Gibson, National Secretary
of the FPCC, was unhappy with the Trotskyites in the organization
and as a result there might be a split. “A

On 11/3/61 this source further advised that Winnick revealed
on 11/2/61 during a discussion of the New Haven Chapter FPCC, that
the New Haven Chapter FPCC was all through and that Gibson had ruined
the organization. According to the source, Winnick stated that the
FPCC held a national conference in Chicago and that only eleven people
attended, none of whom were SWP members. AL

NH rpt. 2/21/62
Re: William Winnick, aka.

IS-SWP

IS-Cuba ,- : YU

100-234959-24 p. 14,15 0S
) (15)

-28-

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 23



; : aaiateD FEN '
Q i ce

CE 1936-S* advised on 10/17/61 that in a contact between
Ted Lee and Richard Gibson at NYC on 10/17/61 Lee told Gibson that
the Monroe Defense Committee had better get on the ball and unite
because their people in Monroe did not go for black supremacy. Lee
stated that if the overall black policy kept up, then all Monroe
would turn against the Monroe Defense Committee. Lee stated he would
withdraw his sponsorship if the all black policy was. maintained. xt)

TP 27-S advised that on 10/23/61 Lee received from Gibson,
Acting National Secretary of the FPCC, NY, a list of names of persons
believed to be FPCC members and subscribers in Florida. SX)

On 11/7/61 NY 3253-S% advised that Ted Lee was reportedly
in contact with Gibson in NY. Lee indicated that he had been
sitting by the telephone day and night since 11/2/61 and told Gibson
that he had better things to do than to sit by the phone. Gibson
reportedly .told him to stay by the phone until 11/8/61. Ku)

Add. info.

TP rpt. 12/29/61 :
Re: Vincent Theodore Lee, aka. Moa
IS-Cuba H

105963 -16 p. 4-6,10 y
105- -16 p. 4-6,1 4
(23)]

CG 6131-S on 11/22/61 advised that on 11/14/61 a meeting
of the South Side Branch, FPCC, was held at the apartment of Isadore
Warwak, 5203 South Blackstone Ave., Chicago. xX (VO

At this meeting, Warwak stated that the city-wide Chapters
of the FPCC were weak in attendance as well as in membership and A
unless his suggestion, that all Chapters merge and meet as one strong :
city chapter, the aims and purposes of the FPCC in Chicago could be |
lost. For these reasons, it was agreed at this meeting that a member-
ship drive be planned. Warwak indicated that he had contacted Richard !
Gibson (date not given) but the NY Hdqrs. could neither help or offer :
suggestions due to their low financial status and loss of mG)

Add. info. according to CG 5933-S on 1/26/62 and duplicate
informants. UL :

: ce rpt. 4/27/62
: Re: Isadore Warwak, aka. E

IS-SWE
105-50077-15 p. 12,15,16,18
(21)

~30- ‘ |

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 24


a

ae
®
On 11/20/sifey 3164- sh ed that he. had determined from
X.

Richard Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, that
Francisco Portela, Director of the NY Office of "Prensa Latina"(PL),
Cuban News Agency, 580 Fifth Ave., NYC, had approached Gibson concerning
the possibility that Gibson might accept ear bail with PL. Gibson
indicated that he had declined this offer.

Gibson also stated that Portela had told him that he had
wanted to send David Simeon Laulicht to Washington, D.C., as
correspondent for PL, but that the Havana Hdqrs. of PL had not.come
through with the required budget figures to make this possible. ohG

~On 12/18/61 the same informant advised that he had
determined from conversation with Gibson that Portela had in the past
told Gibson that he had tried very hard to get reassigned to some
other PL Bureau. Gibson stated that Portela even fought to be
reassigned to Havana, Cuba, prior to his arrest. ve

Informant also advised that Gibson had learned from Portela
that it was Portela's intention to retain the best attorney possible
for his defense and to fight the matter to the very. end. U

Files of the NY Office disclosed that on 12/8/61 a Federal
Grand Jury at Washington, D.C. returned an indictment against the PL
and Portela. Portela was charged with violation of Title 22,
Section 612, 617, 618 of the USC for failure to comply with provisions i
of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 as amended. :

UY
On 12/4/siy 40 dvised that Laulicht was working full time
at PL having termina his es ornent with the Tass News Agency. c

NY rpt. 1/3/62 (NY 97-1725)
Re: Prensa Latina

RA-Cuba _ (15
105-80345-573 p. 1A,22,41 Xt)
(1 ie i :

On 1/5/62 NY 711-S furnished a report regarding: National Convention
of the Young Socialist Alliance which was held 12/29-31/61, 777 West
Adams, Chicago, Illinois. Informant advised that several persons who
attended the convention felt that the anonymous letter on Dick Gibson
that had been circulated was the work of the FBI. U

NY letter, 1/5/62 (NY 100-133479) |
Re: Young Socialist Alliance
IS-SWP :
100-427526-365 p. 15
(28)

|

~36-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 25


ua) ele

On rose 3164-Sfeantsoa that he was acquainted with
Leroi Jones, a Negro who resided at 402 West 20th St., NY,NY. Informant
stated that he believed Jones was originally from Newark, NJ, and that
Jones was on good terms with Richard Gibson and Berta Green of thé FPCC.
Gibson and Green were Known to the source as President and Secretary-
Treasurer, respectively, of the NY Chapter of the FPCC. ‘

__On 11/3/61 NY 3253-5 advised that on that date Gibson, Acting
National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, had commented that Jones
had been arrested by the US Government on an obscenity charge; however
Gibson had learned that the Government wanted to drop charges against
Jones but the American Civil Liberties Union wanted to push it.
Gibson stated that the Government proposed that if Jones stopped
‘distributing the particular issue through the mail, the Government
would drop the case. Gibson further stated that he thought the arrest
of Jones was politically motivated because Jones had been asked if he
knew Fidel Castro. :

. On 1/5/62 WF 1282-S advised that on 1/4/62 Keith Kern, the
Head of the Washington, D.C., Chapter of the FPCC, indicated that
Gibson had refused to have Berta Green as President of the NY Chapter
and instead sponsored Leroi Jones, a Negro nationalist. U

On 9/27/61 NY 711-S advised that Green was a member of the '
NY Local of the SWP. W :
NY rpt. 3/2/62 (NY 100-133629)
Re: Everett Leroy Jones, aka
SH-C
IS-Cuba .. ip
a) U-

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(0) : reese 807-28 p.3,8,13 A

, Former PSI (protect identity), Avho had furnished
reliable information in the past, on 1/12/62 advisew that ‘on 1/11/62
Richard Gibson, National Secretary of the FPCC,. was the featured speaker
at a meeting held at the Carmichael Auditorium, Brown University,
Providence ,Rhode Island. Arrangements for this affair were handled by
members of the Young Social Alliance at Providence. Informant advised
that in addition to Gibson's talk three films were shown depicting scenes
and activities in Cuba. Gibson in his talk, according to the source,
discussed the Cuban revolution and subsequent events in Cuba. Gibson at)
stated that the revolution.served as a model which showed that the /
bourgeois state could be destroyed and replaced with a militia based i)
working class. oe f

(continued on next page)

sds

-37-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 26


(continued)

The "Evening Bulletin," a Providence, Rhode Island daily
newspaper, in its 1/10/62 edition advertised that Gibson would speak
at the above meeting sponsored by the Brown University Student FPCC.

BS rpt. 3/5/62 (NY 100-133479)
-Re: Young. Socialist Alliance of

Boston

IS-SWP 4
100-427226-383 p. 18

(48) \

On 1/26/62 CG 5933-S advised that Richard Gibson was the
featured speaker at a city-wide FPCC meeting held on 1/19/62 at a
410 South Mich Av., Chicago. Source reported that Gibson discussed
what he termed a smear campaign on the part of the press throughout
the US concerning the FPCC. Gibson recommended that all FPCC members
read up on Latin American history and stressed that members should be
well informed on the Cuban situati

On o/1/sikce 6474- x (Ub) that Gibson was Acting Executive
Secretary of the FPCC, 799 Broadway, NY 3, NY.

Add. info.

CG rpt. 12/18/62
Re: Isadore A. Bernstein
SM-SWP Ly

100-434414-3 p. 10,18
(“3ye .

On 11/10/61 Steven Minas, US Customs, Miami International
Airport, Miami, Fla. (protect identity) advised that through routine
inspection of unmarked luggage at Miami International Airport, a
considerable quantity of material pertaining to the July 26th Movement
in NY was disclosed. In this material was. located a letter sent from
the Tampa Chapter of the FPCC, P.O. Box 13847, Tampa, Florida, dated
8/2/61 to "Dear Dick," and was signed "Ted". The correspondence was
about a questionable character of an unidentified individual” (letter
set out).

(continued on next page)

~38-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 27



(continued)

TP-27-S advised on 1/26/62 that in all probability the
. Dick mentioned in the above letter was Richard Gibson, Acting Executive
Secretary, FPCC, 799 Broadway, NYC. This informant described Ted
Lee as Chairman of the FPCC - Tampa Division. j

On 12/26/61 CG 6259-S advised that at a meeting of the
Council of the Chicago chapter of the FPCC on that date a letter
from Gibson was read in which Gibson mentioned that the Tampa
chapter had been dissolved after the FBI closed up the 26th Movement
there and that Ted. Lee, the former chairman of the Tampa chapter,
was then living with Gibson in NY and working with the national office.

TP rpt. 3/20/62 (NY 109-81)
Re: July 26 Movement Tampa,

Florida
IS-Cuba uy
RA-Cw \

97-4455-26/p. 5,7,16
c ST

Eee |
On 1/29/62egy 3164-S4elivised that on 1/27/62 Richard Gibson,

Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, had stated that "a
couple of days ago" there had been an article in the "NY Times"
stating that Robert Taber, National Executive Secretary of the FPCC,
was planning to return to the US from Cuba. Gibson, according to the
informant, stated that Taber was very homesick. He further stated
that should Taber return to the US, undoubtedly (Senator) Bastland
would subpoena him to testify before his Senate Committee almost
immediately. KX on

Informant said that Gibson was of the opinion that if Taber
came back to the US, he, Gibson, would be "off the hook" for all FPCC
activities, even those which took place while Taber was in Cuba.
Gibson's reasoning was that Taber would be responsible-for the
consequences of any FPCC activities because he held a higher office
in the organization than Gibson. & (Ww)

Informant advised that Gibson had also stated that Taber's
wife and others advised against such a return by Taber but Taber felt
that he could return to the US quietly. wR

NY airtel, 1/29/62 (NY 97-1792)
enclosing letterhead memo
Re: Robert Bruce Taber

RA-Cuba | by
F : -97-4223€45 p. 1, encl. p. 1,2 }
: (12) |
=39-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 28


\

i)
e

qui dhalar 3

On 11/14/61 NY 3253-S* advised that William Worthy was in
contact with an employee of the FPCC office in NY on 11/14/61. This
person toid Worthy that Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary
of the FFCC, would like to have Worthy appear at a rally on 12/12/61
in NYC. Worthy advised that he had to decline Gibson's invitation
because of his. speaking schedule.

On 2/8/62 NY 3229-S advised that on that date an

executive meeting of the NY Chapter of the FPCC was held at FPCC
Hdgrs. NYC. According to informant, Gibson said that a proposed
FPCC advertisement in the "NY Times" would cost approximately $2,500
and that Worthy had offered to pay for the advertisement if the
amount would be returned to him within one month. Gibson said that
if Worthy paid for the ad, the "NY Times" would not be aware that the
FPCC placed the ad.

Add. info. a

NY rpt. 3/15/62 (NY 100-114769)
Re: William Worthy, Jr.

IS-Cuba

SN-C

TGP. L

123520 10-145 p. 9,10,19,23)
uy

: On 2/13/62 Ny 3164-Sfadvised that Richard Gibson, Acting
National Executive Secretary of the FPCC,advised the source on 2/12/62
(place not given), that Gloria Ann Rosalie Gerhardt was then living
somewhere in Miami where she was very active with a counter-
revolutionary movement, having become strongly anti-communist in
attitude as a result of her experiences in Cuba.

NY letter, 3/1/62 (NY 105-51309)
Re: Gloria Ann Rosalie Gerhardt -
IS-Cuba

105-104616-10 -
Q5Y: a

-40-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 29


Fea
ru

On 5/8/62 a NY Office confidential mail box contained the
February - March, 1962 issue of the "Vanguard," a publication published
by the Provisional Organizing Committee For a Marxist - Leninist CP.
(POC) (place not given). An article entitled "Trotskyism is Counter
Revolution - POC Answers Richard Gibson's Letter" appeared on page 4
of this issue. According to the article, "Mr. Richard Gibson, acting
executive director of the FPCC, took sharp exception to an ‘anonymous!
article in the October - November, 1961 issue of the 'Vanguard'."
The article also stated "Due to questions raised by Mr. Gibson it is
necessary that our National Committee once again make clear --
our position on Cuba" (copy of article set out). Xx (w)

N

Add. info.

NY rpt. 7/31/62 (NY 100-136078)

Re: Provisional Organizing Committee
For A Narxist - Leninist

ce

Is-¢ 2 re
100-429%00-534 p. 23,44,45

TP 27-S on 3/6/62 advised he had seen correspondence
between V. T. bee of the Tampa Chapter of the FPCC and Richard
Gibson (date not given), Acting Executive Secretary of the FPCC,NY
concerning Sylvia Iglesias; a press release over the signature “of
VY. T. Lee; and a letter addressed "fo Whom it May Concern" from
Iglesias' husband, Mario Iglesias, all concerning Sylvia Iglesias’
attempts to obtain permission to go to Cuba.

.

According to this source, the letter from Gibson suggested
that Lee get a copy of "the letter from the State Department or
Immigration" and send it to the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
and indicated he,Gibson, had been in contact with Melvin L. Wulf, 7
Assistant Legal Director of the ACLU, regarding this matter. KU

TP rpt.. 4/27/62

Re: Sylvia Iglesias, nee: Cagnina,
aka. .

IS-Cuba

105-104281-6 p. 1 A,
cal

-41-

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 30



June Cobb, who was employed in the office of Fidel Castro
and who was in charge of English publications. in Cuba during 1960,
advised on 4/3/62, when interviewed at WFO that she felt sure Lyle
Stuart was not a "drop" whereby Cuban funds were channeled into the

FPCC. She pointed out that this was not necessary since she had heard

funds came from Cuba to Robert Taber and Richard Gibson for the FPcc.
Cobb stated that Taber and Gibson were well liked in Cuba. She

said that Taber was in the "hills" with Castro and that Gibson was
considered, advantageously, as a Negro agitator in the US. Cobb
stated that Teresa Casuso, former Cuban Ambassador to the UN, would

be.a person to interview goncerning Cuban funds sent to Taber and
Gibson of the FPCC. SHi
Cobb relatéd that "communists" tried to get Stuart

eliminated from FPCC and denounced him as a "red-baiter." Gibson,
according to Cobb, porgected Stuart, eliminated the "communists"
and held on.to Stuart ~“W)

WFO airtel, 4/3/62 (NY 100-90251;

97-1724)

Re: Lyle Stuart

IS-Cuba

RA-Cuba

SN-C

105-10439-109 p.2,4

(20) ~~

On 4/9/62 NY 3467-S advised that LeRoi Jones, President
of the NY Chapter of the FPCC, attended a meeting of the Executive
Committee of the NY Chapter of the FPCC which was held at the office
of the FPCC in NY on 4/4/62. Informant advised that Jones presided
over thé’ meeting in the absence of Richard Gibson.

Add. info. according to NY 3229-S and duplicate informant. y

NY rpt. 5/29/62 (NY 100-133629)
Re: Everett Leroy Jones, aka.
SM-C

IS-Cuba
100-425307-29 p.3,4,8 K
(17)

sds = 42—

H
kb
F

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 34


This reference in the file captioned "Andre John Martinsons,
IS-Cuba" set out the association between Martinsons, who was employed
in the office of the FPCC, 799 Broadway, NYC, and Richard Gibson,
Acting National Executive Secretary, FPCC; from 2/7/61 to 5/29/62.
During this period they held and attended numerous meetings and
affairs concerning the FPCC and kept in close contact with each other
in conjunction with the operations of the FPCC in NY.

NY rpt. 10/1/62 (NY 100-138737)

Re: Andre John Martinsons, aka.
100-422238-19 5,7-9 4
106- 38-19 p. 1,B,P -9,11-13
(18a) 15,16;18,19,22,27°

NK 1913-S advised on 6/17/62 that a public FPCC meeting
was held on 6/16/62 at 108 Clinton Ave., Newark. Informant further
advised that Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary of the FPCC,
was the speaker at this meeting. U

A

Add. info.

NK rpt. 11/29/62
Re: Harold Verb, aka.

IS-Cuba

SM-SWP

105-102029-16 p. 4,5 ‘

(24)

This reference in the file captioned "Cuban American
Civil Rights Committee"(CACRC) set out lengthy information concerning
the activities of Richard Gibson in connection with the CACRC. The
CACRC was formed through the alleged efforts of several pro-Castro
and communist organizations in the NY area to serve as an ad hoc
committee to call attention to the alleged violation of the civil
rights of Cuban Americans in NY, NJ and Fla. A

Gibson attended meetings of the CACRC held at the FPCC hdars.
in NY, discussed the organization at various times, was named as a
member of the publicity and press committees of the CACRC and collected ©
$120.00 for the CACRC. De

NY rpt. 7/9/62 (NY 105-56134)
Re: Cuban American Civil Rights
Committee

os giia7o 8 p. 2,5-7,14
105-411 -8 p. -7, Ln
(2¢28)7 , TEN

-44-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 32



oo Cc

“ee
TP-27-S made available a letter which Ted Lee sent to

Harold Wilson, Tampa, on 7/25/62. Lee in the letter stated that the
"mighty chieftain" had left the field for a week and had left Lee
with power of attorney to conduct affairs in his absence. Lee further
stated that it was time for the annual mass demonstration at the UN
on 7/26/62 and, "the gucanos and police would be out in force to settle
some issues. A little game of tag and I'm it." a

It was noted that the yeference to the mighty chieftain was
probably Richard Gibson. & Ww

TP-27-S identified Lee as the founder and former chairman
of the Tampa Bay Chapter FPCC, who had been in NY since January, 1962
working with the National Hdqrs. of the FPCC. 1 tu
TP letter 8/15/62 i 105-46848)
Re: Vincent Theodore Lee, aka
IS-Cuba
RA-Cuba : :
105-96362-30 p.1 é :
(23),

He Gy 10/12/62 Rev. Robert H. Lewis, Henniker, New Hampshire, {
Boston Panel Source, /who had furnished reliable inforiiation in the
past, (protect idéntity) furnished a copy of a letter dated 9/28/62 and
signed by Willard and Ola Uphaus, The letter sets forth. the events
and activities which took place at the World Fellowship, Inc. (WFI)
Summer Camp, Conway, Ney Hampshire, during the Summer, 1962. The letter
disclosed that Richard Gibson was a speaker at the Summer Camp. x we

On 9/26/62, NH 337-S made available a printed pamphlet
distributed through the mail by the WFI. The pamphlet listed Ola yY
Uphaus, wife of Willard Uphaus, as Assistant. to the Director of WFI.

On 11/6/62, Fred Thomas, 62 Edgewood Ave., New Haven,. Conn. Boe
(protect identity) advised that Willard Uphaus resided at 66 Edgewood i
Ave., New Haven, Conn. and was Executive Director of the WFI.

Add. info. i
NH rpt. 11/23/62 (NY 105-13658) [|

Re: World Fellowship, Inc. ii

ISM. of 1950 \

Is-c a

61-9290-251 p.9,10,13,19 |

@) r

- '

\

|

|

sds ‘ i -45- i

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 33


cy

The 9/4/62 late city edition of the "NY Times,” page 21.
contained an article entitled "Pro-Castro Group Here Bids US Meet
Now With Cubans." The article stated that the FPCC urged the US
and Cuba to negotiate "at any level" so as to reduce "dangerous
tensions in the Caribbean which threatened world peace" (date and
place not given). u

\
Richard Gibson, acting executive secretary of the FPCC,
according to the article, expressed the conviction that the Aug. 24
shelling of Havana from the sea by Cuban exiles was "part of a
concerted. effort by Cuban counter-revolutionaries and their American
accomplices: to provoke a war between the two countries."

“A Q7-4196+A "NY Times" 9/4/62 p. 21 (,
(7)

On 9/11/62 ene advised that Richard Gibson, the
head of the FPCC, had béén“In the office of "Prensa Latina” (PL)

on several occasions (dates not given) during the past in-an effort

to see Francisco Portela. Informant advised that Portela appeared

to be avoiding Gibson and on one occasion Portela indicated he did

not trust Gibson and did not wish to have contact with him.

On 10/23/62 NY 3164-S advised that the office of PL was ii :
located in Room 367 at the Secretariat building, NY, NY. U)

On 9/12/62 NY}3400-S advised that Francisco Portela, a i
naturalized American, wa employed as Chief Correspondent at the
PL office in NY, NY. x

Add. info.

NY rpt. 12/21/62 (NY 105-36926)
Re:"Prensa Latina"
RA-Cuba

105- 5804S 726 p. 12,16

~46~

\ : j

; NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 34


- it

aa ww) :
Row 3164-9foh 9/17/62 reported that on 9/16/62 Sara Gibson,
wife of Richard Gibson, advised that she was attempting to raise funds
so that she could join her husband, Richard Gibson, in Algeria.

On 1/23/62 NY 3467-S reported that at a meeting of the
Social Committee, NY Chapter FPCC, held at FPCC offices, NYC, on t
1/16/62, Sara Gibson was chosen chairman of the Social Committee. AL

According to the same source, Lawrence Steven Seltzer,
treasurer of the NY Chapter, FPCC, called a meeting (date and place
not given) to discuss the question of the sudden departure of Richard
Gibson and to discuss the relation of the NY Chapter to the National
Office, FPCC. According to this source, Lee read a letter to those
present which had been received from Gibson, in which Gibson stated
ee he was transferring the operations of the National Office of the
FPCC to Lee.

NY 3467-S on 9/17/62 advised that Seltzer was in attendance
at anFPCC forum held at Adelphi Hall, NYC, on 9/17/62. According to
the source, Seltzer stated that he had contacted members of the f
Executive Committee, NY Chapter, FFCC, to meet on 9/25/62 concerning (|
the departure of Gibson.

NY 3229-S advised on 10/4/62 that Vincent Ted Lee, the
former head of the FPCC in Tampa, Florida, had been designated head
of the National Chapter, FPCC, in the position of manager since
Richard Gibson, former acting National Executive Secretary, FPCC, Lh
had departed the US for Algeria. a

Add. info.

NY rpt. 12/13/62 (NY 105-45965)

Re: Lawrence Steven Seltzer aka.
Is-Cuba

105-109192-6 p. 3-5,8 A

(5) Pat :

1

On 10/15/62 TP 27-S advised that Mrs. Amor, wife of Manuel
Amor, at a meeting of the FPCC held at the Amor's horie-in Clearwater,
Florida on 10/13/62 read a letter she had received from V. T. Lee,
Lee stated that Richard Gibson was then in Africa and that Lee wa
in charge of the FPCC. w

TP rpt. 10/25/62
Re: Manuel Amor, aka.

IS-Cuba
105-111992-4 p. 3
08) : a

-A7~-

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 35


G7. GG

The following references are reports furnished by Bureau
informahts:: as set out below, concerning the activities of Richard
Gibson in connection with the FPCC. Gibson, Acting National Executive
Secretary of the FPCC and also Executive Secretary of the Liberation. Y
Committee for Africa, with hdars. at NYC, attended numerous FPCC
meetings and spoke at many of them.

INFORMANT DATE AND PLACE REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP
OF REPORT. PAGE NUMBER
ee 5/26/61 Detroit 134-9343-43 p.1 (26) i
(NY 97-1792) :
BA-40 5/16/61 Detroit 134-9602-50 p.1,2 (26) — | :
- (cc: NY (epce) Alen
Ve
BA-40 +10/22/61 Detroit 134-9602-86 p.2,3 - (26) ~~ .
(NY 97-1792) i

The following references in the files captioned "July 26th
Movement - NY” IS-Cuba, RA-Cuba, file # 97-3243, NY 109-81, copies of
which were forwarded to NY, set out the activities of Richard Gibson,
Acting Executive Secretary of the National Office of the FPCC, in Ly
conjunction with captioned organization in the NY area. ican

DESCRIPTION OF SERIAL SERIAL NUMBER ‘ SEARCH SLIP
PAGE NUMBER
NY rpt. 11/13/61 511 p.ld (2) :
NY rpt. 2/14/62 722 p.19,33 (27 ill
MM letter 2/19/62 TAL p.2,5 (2) }
NY rpt. 5/2/62 815 p.5 Ora 2 |
NY rpt. 9/20/62 836 p.1,2,5,15 (2) % 1
|
7
i
ae

| sds -49-

ee J

| NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 36



(continued)

DESCRIPTION OF SERIAL

State vept. ‘Inter-office
Communication, 8/1/61
and enclosures thereto

NY letter, 7/31/61
enclosing letterhead
memo

TP rpt. 8/18/61

Legal Attache, Ottawa
%. 8/21/61 enclosing )
RCMF letter dated
i agriec ate

LA rpt. 8/28/61

NY airtel, 8/23/61
enclosing letterhead
memo

WFO rpt. 8/31/61

TA letter, 9/1/61
faassen RY eo

NY airtel, 8/30/61
enclosing letterhead
memo

CG letter, 9/15/61
NY airtel, 9/22/61
enclosing letterhead
meno

NY airtel, 10/4/61
enclosing letterhead
memo

NY rpt. 10/4/61

REFERENCE NUMBER

97-4196-619 ip.

623

624
625

628
629

631
632

634

637
642

648

657

~51-

1 Encl. p.
1,12,13,14,20

Enel. p. 3

p. 2
Encl. p. 1

p. 1-4
Encl. p. 1,2

p. 1,3
p. i

p- 1, Encl.
p. 1,2

p. 1-3
Encl. p. 1

Encl. p. 1

p. 1-1C,9-17,
19-21, 23-25,37,
31, 53, 58,60-65,
68-70,73;77,78,
80, 82;84,107-109,
111,142, 116-124,
1422144) 148,155

SEARCH SLIP
PAGE NUMBER

(continued on next page)

(OS~-73

072~100

NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 37



REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on Richard Gibson, located in files
maintained in the Special File Room of the Files and Communications
Division, Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE NUMBER SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER
64-330-210-858 ) (2) :
105-89923-A "NY Times" 3/24/61 (22) , \

The following reference was not available during the time
this summary was being prepared. é

REFERENCE NUMBER SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER
105-21126-2 (20)

See the search slip filed behind file for other references
on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main file. Differences in source will be noted on the
search slip. Py

-61-

\

yy

Ste

; NW 64578 Docld:32339258 Page 38
