|
|
|

NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10333
ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 LISC 2107 Note}.

ase#:NW 68261 Date:
01-20

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 12

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Dotid:32243299 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10068-10333

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE : 11/01/78
PAGES : 13

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
DELSA, LAWRENCE J.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
} CLASSIFICATION : U
| RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO"M ° a ‘

(Please Use Typewriter. x" U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes.

: Be ; on this form must be initialed by the
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 aiithorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Lawreace J. Oelsa Saeasher 15, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
43652-4154 Appointment
O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
. © Termination (At close of business on effective date)
|: Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
| close of business. ee )
Speci Bate

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the-gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional.
2.

3. O Joint Committee.

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Re:

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) 7

Position Number___- If applicable, Level Step_______.

| certify that. this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of -%;
relatives.

e (Signature of Authorizing Official)
| LOUIS STOKES
7 int name of Authorizing Offical)

Chai roan

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act-and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee ‘on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: 5

Office Code... _______

Payroll

(Revived: August 1 19771

a . .
Nw 68261 - _ .
| Docld:32243299 Page 3 |



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO™*4.. _

(Please. Use Typewriter >=" U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes {

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 sranettaieg otic) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: i

| I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date j
Laveescs J Beles Revember 1, 1978 i
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action i \
436~62-4154 Appointment \
O Salary Adjustment \
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C1 Title Change i
1. Termination (At close of business on effective date) i
= Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending 4
2 close of business z

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary* j
$24,000.68 H

+ If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant {includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing o

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) oy

1. C0 Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or C] Professional. ; \

2.6) Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.
3. C1 Joint Committee. :

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) i

Position Number .If applicable, Level_ Step_

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C..-3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. we : «

Novenbez &

All appointments and salary adjustments-for employees under.the House Classification Act and for Com:
ployees, except. those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must A \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance use only: ID

Office Code.._________ Benefits

4

| NW 6826 - . _ _
|| Docld:32243299 Page 4



CITY OF NEW ORLEANS

DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

P.O. Box 51480
New Orleans, La. 70151

ERNESD: DUTCH MORIAL “to protect and to serve” CLARENCE B. GIARRUSSO
MAYOR SUPERINTENDENT

June 6, 1978

During the period of July 5, 1977 through December 31, 1977,
Police Officer Lawrence Delsa earned a base pay of $821.00.

Respestfully Submitted

— What

SGT. ALBERT C. LAWLESS
Commander, Payroll Division

ACL/da

An Equal Opportunity Employer

NW 68261
| Docld:32243299 Page 5



LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN.
RICHARDSON PREYER, H.C. SAMUEL L- DEVINE, OHIO
Yooune prariwalte BURKE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PAL

(202) 225-4624

Dear L.J.:

Select Committee on Assassinations

GH. House of Representatives

3369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

October 13, 1978

As you know, the Committee is winding down and the
decision has been made to terminate your services as of Oct-

tober 31, 1978.

You have been off the Committee payroll since March 1,
1978 due to duplication of salary payments from the New Orleans

Police Department.

The following is how I have calculated the Committee's

salary settlement with you:

You were hired July 5, 1977 at a salary of $24,000 and
taken off the payroll February 28, 1978. Your W-2 statement for
1977 gave a salary of $11,815.27, from the New Orleans Police

Department. The monthly amount would be $984.61 ($11,815.27 = 12).

Prorating this amount would give $7,745.60 while on the payroll

of the Committee.
to February 28, 1978).

You have been due $1,015.39 per month from the Committee
(The difference between your Committee

since March 1, 1978.

($984.61 per month for the period July 5, 1977

salary of $2,000.00 per month and $984.61).:! Dividing $1,015.39
into $7,745.60 (the overpayment teferred to above) would carry

you seven months and nineteen days or through September 19, 1978.

Accordingly, you would be due a gross salary of $1,387.70

for the period September 20-October 31, 1978. (at $1,015.39).
However, because you completed a year of service on August 1,

you were entitled to a 7% salary increase or $1,700.00 annually.
This would provide an additional amount of $425.00 for the period

August 1 - October 31 so the total amount due you would be

$1,812.70.

Further, recognizing the difference between your monthly

income from your W-2 of $984.61 and that of $821.00 stated as

your base pay by your commanding officer, I am recommending that

the Committee settlement be in the gross amount of $3,000.00.

locld:32243299 Page 6



It

page 2

This will be accomplished by restoring you to
the payroll for the period October 16 to November 30
gross monthly salary of $2,000.00 ($24,000.00 annuail

Please complete the enclosed payroll forms.
have any questions, give me a call.

Sincerely,

han

Thomas Howarth
Budget Officer

th/w

ata
y)+

If you

W 68261
locid:32243299 Page 7



hw 6826

To: G. Robert Blakey

From: Tom H
Date: October 10, 1978

Re: Termination of Lawrence J. Delsa

We have reached the time when action mst be taken to term-
inate the services of Delsa or restore him to the payroll.

Delsa was hired July 5, 1977 at a salary of $24,000.00 and
taken off the payroll February 28, 1978. His W-2 statement for 1977
gave a salary of $11,815.27 from the New Orleans Police Department.
Prorating this amount would give $7,745.60 while on the payroll of
the Committee. The monthly amount would be $984.61.

He has been due $1,015.39 per month from the Committee since
March 1, 1978. (The difference between his Committee salary of $2,000
and $984.61.) Dividing $1,015.39 into his 1977 overpayment of $7,745.60
would carry him for seven months and nineteen days or until September
19, 1978,

In the case of Robert Buras, his salary was greater from the
New Orleans Police Department, thus is overpayment from the Committee
his larger and the differential due him since March 1, 1978 is smaller.
Applying the same calculations to him as was done for Delsa would
carry him for fourteen months or until April 30, 1979.

Returning to Delsa's case, if the decision is made to terminate
him, some salary adjustment should be made as we have gone by the date
(September 19, 1978) when he should have been terminated.

‘| Docld:32243299 Page 8



lees

To: G. Robert Blakey

From: ‘Tom H

Date: October 10, 1978

Re: Termination of Lawrence J. Delsa

We have reached the time when action must be taken to term-
inate the services of Delsa or restore him to the payroll.

ired July 5, 1977 ata salary of $24,000.00 and
fthe payroll February 28, 1978. His W-2 statement for 1977
fare a salary of $11,815.27 from the New Orleans Police Department.
Prorating this amount would give $7,745.60 while on the payroll of
the Committee. The monthly amount would be $984.61.

He has been due $1,015.39 per month from the Committee since
March 1, 1978. (The difference between his Committee salary of $2,000
and $984.61.) Dividing $1,015.39 into his 1977 overpayment of $7,745.60
would carry him for seven months and nineteen days or until September
19, 1978.

In the case of Robert Buras, his salary was greater from the
New Orleans Police Department, thus is overpayment from the Committee
his larger and the differential due him since March 1, 1978 is smaller.
Applying the same calculations to him as was done for Delsa would
carry him for fourteen months or until April 30, 1979.

’ Returning to Delsa's case, if the decision is made to terminate
him, some salary adjustment should be made as we have gone by the date
(September 19, 1978) when he should have been terminated.

IW 68261 ee
locld:32243299 Page 9



es 7 1
CITY!OF NEW ORLEANS °° —-72.6000pc0W Wage and Tax Statement 1 : \
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE — 69-0720268 001 JF aL ae O77 t
ROOM SwWO2 CITY HALL Se. Se0704o0e th ol] Copy’ © For \
NEW. OREANS.. LAL 70U12 woes : employee's records
2 cae. |-tiy form number Tnplovers State Wentiying number
‘identifying © * ee ¥
Fea acon de ae Taal ew \ |
¥ of, : \
Smee TF =e
Teer Toes [Tema \
A57.29 iske : : ty
[Tr Gay or tocal a TS City oF locality
Fe ead el ¢ i
! FormW——2. This information is being furnished to the Internal Revenue Service. wyowo ins ~-Depaitment of the Teasuty—leieral Revenue sewice 570 K
Ly ea Deeg f r
|
ze

ww 68261

locid:32243299 Page 10



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO!

w+ « (Please. Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE: (Any erasures, corrections, or.changes:-
Washington, D.C. 20515 ee eee

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: - : 4
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:
4
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). - - Effective Date 4
Lawrence J. Delsa 5 2/28/78

Employee Social Security Number * : Type of Action q

C Appointment

436-62-4154 CO Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

. ‘Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations _

© Leave without pay (Beginning

jh effective date above and en
close of business

‘Specify Bate A

(If type of.action is an. Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title I Gross Annual Salary*
* If employee is civil service.annuitant (includes U.S: House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown’should include the annvity received by the-employee: > 1
plus the salary received from the employing office. d

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item.below.)

1.0 Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or E] Professional. - ”

2. CXSpecial. (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.._27 9o¢__95'@ingress.

Mop 951 3

3. D0 Joint Committee. 4
(If Employee of an’Officer of the House, complete item. below.) a catia

a

Position Number 4

4

es

q

4

aq

Signature of Authorizing Offic a

LOUIS STOKES 3

All appointments and salary-adjustments for employees under the House: Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those. of the Committee on Appropriations, the. Committee on the Budget, and ‘the: Joint‘Committees, must.
be approved by the Committee: on House Administration.

1 APPROVED: |
Lb.

A Office of Finance use only: ID L_--_-----o---------------

: Office Code.___.____-_ Benefits ________--------_---_

Seah alia il a dhl aes

Copy for. Initiating Office or Committee

Piomticieraetae

5 en eee a

locid:32243299 Page 11


; PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.

(Please Use Typewriter
we 2° .0¢ Ballpoint Pen)

“To the°Clérk of the House:of Representatives:

© U:S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES QO (any erasures, corrections, or-changes:: ¢

in this form.must be initialed by. the
authorizing official.)

, oo oy 2 a oe
hereby authorize the following payroll action: r . “
ay Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). Effective Date ~ S 7 \
Lawrence d.-Delsa WS”

Type of Action

Employee Social Security Number

436 62.4154-

~}:.] Appointment,

Employing Office or Committee

1 Solary ‘Adjustment

. Assassinations | Termination (At close of business on effective-date). Sy
\ if typeof action is af Appoiniment-or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information) pe |
i q a Position: Title ; : Ee ‘ Gross Annual Salary ‘|
staff Investigator : $28,000 i
(lf a Employee, “a appropriate item below, “ ae wa
: 1. Ey Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical orf] cea : ~ + 4
22 } Special or Select Commitige: Authority H. Res. :
: ” 3, [Joint Committee. 7 , ’ |
| | (Employee 7 Officer of the. House, comiplete item below) : A ° ~~
Position Number. __ applicable, Level ;
L- “A certify. that this cee is not’ in violation of 5 US. “31104, prohibiting the employment of,
‘relatives as .
; uae ‘

- Date!

ype or pin ne of Auorsing Oia

u ’ chairman

peer ments-and salary. “adjustments for employees-under the House Classification’ Act: and: for Committee_em-

ployees; except:those of the Gommittee‘on Apprépriations, the Committee on the, Budget, and the Joint Committees; must

be approved by. the Committee. on House Administration. < , ’
- jos APPROVED:.__- o a :

} Office ofFinarice use only: -

Office Code, 2
. Monthly Annuity §________.00 ‘

IW 68261 —
locld:32243299 Page 12



— ft ‘
he. StF

LOOM2ZALEE
: JLAU0EE TT te
MEMORANDUM of Fi . 4

TO: Chairman Stokes

FROM: Tom Lambeth

DATE: June 17, 1977

The attached three recommendations for the employment of investigators
represent Tanenbaum's effort to get his task force moving strongly.

If these three are hired there will remain twelve vacancies for
investigators on the Kennedy task force.

W 68261
ocld:32243299 Page 13



WALTER E, FAUNTROY,
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD,

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W, EDGAR, PA.

OGY

W 68261
locid:32243299 Page 14

YONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

LOUIS STOKES, OM10, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

‘SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
‘STEWART B. MCKINN
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH.

De.

‘CONN.

Select Committee on Assassinations

(202) 225-4624 GS. House of Representatives
3381 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515
MEMORANDUM
gb o*
pA
TO: TOM LAMBETH
PROM: CLIFFORD A FENTON, JR.
DATE: JUNE 15, 1977
RE:

RECOMMENDATION FOR EMPLOYMENT OF
LAWRENCE J. DELSA

It is recommended that Lawrence J. Delsa
be considered for immediate appointment to the po-

sition of Senior Investigator. His personal character

and work experience reflects the knowledge and exper-

ience important to the purposes of our investigation.

Mr. Delsa, who is a member of the New Orleans

Police Department with experience in the Homicide Divi-

sion, shows a clear understanding of the nature of the

work to be performed... He appears to be a reliable,

stable, intelligent person who is interested in becoming

_an integral part of the JFK Task Force.

APPROVED:

ROBERT K. TANENBAUM



MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL. STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances’ and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification, include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman. :

The following are the relationships: to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother ‘father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

‘ Pjiease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

Lf 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

L7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

(LEA “Pg-97

Signature of Employe: Date

\

W 68261

ocld:32243299 Page 15

