Le ‘ennedy Assassination
70 ecords Collection Act of
| 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}
vase: NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY :. HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10325
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

"NW 68261
| Docld:32243291 Page 1



oo Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10325

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE : 12/15/76

PAGES : 8
SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

CONNOR, LINDA M.

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS,

Box #:1.

([R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docld:32243291 Page 2


"

‘THOMAS N. DOWNING, VA., CHAIRMAN

HENRY B. GONZALEZ, TEX. ‘SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO .
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. BURT L. TALCOTT, CALIF. C
Louis STOKES, OHIO STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

WALTER &. FAUNTROY, D.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

2.
GurisToPner J. D000, CONN. Select Committee on Assassinations

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

W 68261

GH. Bouse of Representatives
3341 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

(202) 225-4624

March 18, 1977

Mr. Richard A. Sprague
Chief Counsel and Director
House Select Committee on Assassinations

Dear Mr. Sprague:

I am herewith submitting my resignation as of
March 20, 1977. ZI intend to work this weekend to complete
my assignment prior to joining a Congressional staff on
March 21, 1977.

I have enjoyed working with you and wish you and
the Committee success. 7

Sincerely,

Koda une
Linda M. Connor ;

ocid:32243291 Page 3



|
|
}
|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. 5 “

(Please Use Typewriter (U.S. HOUSE OF-REPRESENTATIVES © (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, ‘D.C. 20515 sentence offal. pe initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Linda Mae Connor

Employee Social Security Number 5 Type of Action
oo
° O Appointment |
Employing Office or Committee D Salary Adjustment >

4B] Termination (At close of busines on effective date)

Assassinations Committee

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross. Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or (] Professional. ‘ ‘

2. © Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.222

3. [1] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that this aithorization is not in violation of § USC. 3110[b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

iSigneture of Authorizing Official)

Louis kes, Chatriman . a

issassinations

All appointments and salary adjustments.for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee. em-
+ ployees, except those of the Committee-on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, mist
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

iee on House Administration |

Office of Finance use only:

: ie
_ Office Code ; \o

IW 68261 ee. F
locid:32243291 Page 4 , }



i 7 Sp ]
PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION FORM ae
(Please: Use Typewriter » “U.S. HOUSE OF- REPRESENTATIVES {Any erasures, corrsctlons, or changes
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 juthorizing official) ee
| To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: 2
L hereby authorize the following payroll action: 4
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) “Effective Date “|
Linda Mae Connor 21-77 '
~ Employee-Social Security Number “ Type of Action j :
Cl Appointment | \
se 5 |
Employing Office or Committee 8) Solary Adjustment : 4
Select Conmittee on Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) q
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) i
4
Position Title Gross Annual Salary |
$12,300. |
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) i
}
|
1. (J Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or {] Professional. 44
2.) Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res..11_.__of 95. Congress. i

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

f applicable, Level Step

| certify that this. authorization is not in violation: of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting: the employment. of

relatives.
Date! 2 2B, Wo ee ee :
‘Bignoture of uthorzing Ofc 4
Henry B. Gonzalez 4
Tis or prt rene ok Authoring Gllca) TT 4
Chairman
«: All_appointments-and salary adjustments for-employees--under ‘the House Classification

sployees,.except those. of.the.Committee-on Appropriations, the Committee..on the Budget, andthe Joint:Committees, must 3
- be approved by the Committee.on.House Administration. :

APPROVED: ._.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code?

i
|
|
q
4
‘qd
i
4
1
j
a
q
|
:

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

W 68261 em _
locld:32243291 Page 5 ,


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM =

(Please Use Typewriter 4’ U.S. HOUSE. OF ‘REPRESENTATIVES ‘ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 guthorizing offical)” initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) a Effective Date

Type of Action

© Appointment

© Solary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Z] Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or [] Professional.

2.4

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res..

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number

If applicable, Level___-____ Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting ‘the employment of

relatives.

All appointments and salary-adjustments for employees under the:House- Classification Act and for. Committee ‘em-
ployees, except those of the-Committee on Appropriations, the Committee .on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

ymittee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

Copy for Initiating Office er Committee

W 68261 on r
locld:32243291 Page 6 ,



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM “ ea ‘

(Please Use Typewriter C U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES «__~ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

J - or Ballpoint Pen) . Washington,:D:C. 20515 ~~ : authorizing offen) initialed. by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: ’

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

2 Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) . “Effective Date oT 4

Linda é

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action =. H

8D Appointment

Employing Office or Committee O Solary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) .

tee on Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment of Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary é

or/Historiaa

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

we | Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical of Profesional. . h
2.)

Special or r Select Committee: Authority—H. Re:

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date.

{Type or print nome of Authorizing Offciah

ittee on ASS

a

Select

All appointments and salary adjustments for émployees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee‘on Appropriations, the: Cornmittee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. 2

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code ‘ - , \

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee “ |

| NW 68261 - r
'| Docld:32243291 Page 7 ‘ :



C C
! aed
MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
‘the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law,
mother niece L sister-in-law
son husband stepfather

. daughter wife stepmother.

: brother . father-in-law stepbrother |
sister mother-in-law stepsister i
uncle — son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |

first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
_ Richard A. Sprague

I-am not elated aa

‘Ivam elated by the following relationship

Kha has Cootal 119199

augpature of Thas Da

W 68261 on
locld:32243291 Page 8



Linda Mae Connor

4206 N. Washington Boulevard

Arlington, Virginia 22201

Office: (202) 225-4261

Home: (703) 525-8417 ”

Age:
Birthplace:
Marital Status:
Skills:

Education:

Experience:

32
Hampton, Virginia
Legally separated (no children)

Type - 65 wpm Shorthand - 120 wpm

Hampton High School (summa cum laude) - 1962
Univeristy of Maryland (magna cum laude) - 1973

B.A. in English (earned degree in evenings

while employed full-time)
George Mason University - currently enrolled in

M.A. program in English (anticipate degree in 1977)

July 5, 1967 - Present - Office of Congressman

| Nw 68261

Docld:32243291 Page 9

Thomas N. Downing, First District of Virginia

January 1973 - Present - Legislative Assistant
to Congressman Thomas N. Downing of the First
District of Virginia. Have responsibility for
all legislative matters in the Congressman's
office. Act as liaison for the Congressman

for his committees which are Merchant Marine
and Fisheries and Science and Technology.
Review all legislative proposals and advise

the Congressman of his District's interests.
Meet with all lobbyists for the Congressman,
explain his views on issues and summarize and
transmit interest groups' positions to him.
Formulate statements of positions, respond to
all constituents' legislative inquiries. Issue
news releases to media for legislative matters.
Compose statements for House Floor and committee
testimony; draft legislative speeches; correct
committee hearing transcripts. Accompany or
represent the Congressman at various professional
and social functions involving his committee
assignments and District interests. Supervise
legislative personnel.

January 1970 - January 1973 - Worked directly
for Congressman Downing on special projects and
assisted all others in accomplishing the tasks
of the office. Worked with the Administrative



< &
Ss

i
a Site . Page 2

“ Resume
Linda Mae Connor

|
|
|

References:

| 'NW 68261
Docld:32243291 Page 10

Assistant on political matters. Have a thorough
working knowledge of all aspects of a Congressional
office, including office accounts, casework,
governmental relations, special interests of
Congressional District, etc.

June 1968 - January 1970 - Personal secretary

to Congressman Downing's Administrative Assistant.
Duties includéd political aspects of a Congres-
sional office which involved campaigning in the
District. Set up political files. Work involved
all governmental installations in the District,
primarily military.

July 1967 - June 1968 - During this first year in
the Congressman's office, handled routine Congres-
sional mail and constituent services. Acquired a
general, overall knowledge of the operation of a
Congressional office.

June 1966 - June 1967 - Employed by the Special Assistan
to the Chief of Staff for Data Processing Systems,

U. S. Army, Pentagon. ‘Secretarial position for seven
action officers. Duties included correspondence,
dictation, typing, filing, and required detailed know-
ledge of Army correspondence and security procedures

and regulations, The office had responsibility for
data processing systems for budgetary and financial
management programs. Secret clearance.

“August 1962 - June 1966 - Employed by the Comptroller,

USCONARC, Fort Monroe, Virginia. In addition to
secretarial duties, I was Coordinator for the Cost
Reduction Program for all installations and commands
within the Continental United states for Data Proces—
sing Systems. This project had previously been the
primary assignment of a GS-12. For handling the
program I was awarded a Sustained Superior Performance
Award.

Congressman Thomas N. Downing (202) 225-4261 - Office
(804) 596-2188 - Home
E. M. (Tiny) Hutton (202) 225-4261
