NW 68261

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

‘992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10260
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to‘constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32277341 Page 1


2 Date : 07/08/95
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

HSCA
180-10147-10260

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER =:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

10/30/77
4
SPEISER, MARK A.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3 :
CURRENT STATUS RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/26/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 3

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docid:32277341 Page 2


PAYROLL ‘AUTHORIZATION FORM

~ ,
(Please Use Typewriter C) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) * Washington, D.C. 20515 guthorzing offical.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-HMiddle-Last) Effective Date
Mark A. Speiser December 7, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
CO Appointment
O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations C1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above ond ending
close of business. _
Specily Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* I employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office,

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. © Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or 01 Professional.

2. @ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res2:

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. -

December 11 73

Date_

wihorizing Official

LOUIS STOKES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees. under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
Ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: ~_

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID __
Office Code.

Payroll_---- |

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

_— - . See -

| NW 68261 ~ = -
Docld:32277341 Page 3 .

;
|



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

_ (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorizieg offen) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

j
1

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Mark A. Speiser
Employee Social Security Number [

Type of Action . : '

Warch 1, 1978 ae

lary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee
Agsaseinations

tle Change

CO Termination (At close of business on effective date)

0 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business,

Speciy Date
(If typeof action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment; or Title‘Change, complete appropriate information below.) ~

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

$32,060

* If employee is-a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Représentatives), the gross annual salary shown should inclide the annuity received by:the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

Staff Counsel

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or 0 Professional.
2.

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority —H: Res2 26 _ of 95: :
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number... If applicable, Level Step .

‘| certify that. this authorization is not in. violation. of 5 US.
relatives.

. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of

- 2 c

, District and State)

ments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em:

Ployees, except those of the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee’ on the Budget, and the Joint Committeés, must \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: a

——EE _ |
Chairmon, Committee on House Administration 3

Office of Finance use only: ID 8 --
Office Code.

See)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

W 68261 —
ocid:32277341 Page 4


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes:

A i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
. = a z
Mark A. Speiser October A, 1977
Employee Social-Security Number Type of Action

‘BRAppointment

Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment

Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel $28,000

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (J Standing Committee: Staff—L] Clerical or (] Professional.

224] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(IF Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step___

| certify. that this. authorization is. not in violation of 5 U.S.C: 3110(b), prohibiting: the employment of
relatives. “ oo

All-appointments.and. salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act.and: for Committee em-

ployees;.exceptithose of the Committee-on: Appropriations, the Committee: on-the Budget, and. the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the. Committee on House Administration. - 5 .

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use. only:

Office Code.__.

Copy for Initiating Office: or Committee

iT, 7
hw 68261 7 _
Docld:32277341 Page 5

Loy



MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special counseith, © NM
DATE: October 26, 1977

RE: Mr. Mark A. Speiser

Mr. Mark A. Speiser has accepted the position of
Senior Staff Counsel with the Martin Luther King Task

SZ,
Force. His effective starting date will be October 2m

1977, and his starting salary will be $28,000.00.
Mr. Speiser is a 1972 graduate of the University of

North Carolina Law School and was previously employed as

an Attorney-Advisor with the SEC. He also spent two years
with the Organized Crime Strike Force in the Southern District
of New York.

Your full co-operation will be appreciated in familiarizing

Mr. Speiser with staff procedures and welcoming him aboard.

IcM:j1

Nw 68261 To
Docld:32277341 Page 6

petNS

