Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10170 ‘ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecards Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32244112 Page 1



AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
WELBURN, BRENDA L.

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Box 3.

| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32244112 Page 2

HSCA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

180-10070-10170

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

12/30/77
6

PRINTED FORM

U
3
P

07/16/93

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1



i
PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM om ‘
- (Please Use Typewriter UO) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (hny erasures, Be ena i
« . i in thi: rm mus! j
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) |
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: |
hereby authorize the following payroll action: 4
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date {
Brenda L. Welburn L December 1, 1973 |
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action R
PSC Salary Adjustment if
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change }
1 . CO Termination (At close of business on effective date) i
Assassinations OO Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending a
close of business. ) 1
‘Specily Date i
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* 1
. 4
$16,000.08 1
* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee 1
plus the salary received from the employing office. q
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) j
| 1. Cl Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or 0 Professional. |
;
i
3. 1 Joint Committee. ‘
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) :
Position Number. If applicable, Level Step_._.__.. 4
j
' certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110{b), prohibiting the employment of 4
relatives. Lee 7 . :
| |
| {
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under: the House Classification Act and for Committee’ ein- 4
ployees, except those. of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must 4
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. j
APPROVED: i
:
Office of Finance use only: ID oe i
Office Code. Benefits... i
Monthly Annuity $__________- 00 sof 9 Payroll... |
(Revd Avge 1, 1977 i
Copy:.for. Initiating Office or Committee E
a San we a —-- -- ae ne ee
| Nw 68261 . _
|| Docld:32244112 Page 3 :



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter C) US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(_) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthoviloy aff r initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: :
Employee Name (First-Middie-Last) Effective Date |
Brenda L. Welbura 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

1 Appointment

D Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
‘1B Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations O Leave without pay (Begi with effective date above and ending

close of business
: Specify Bote

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee i

vil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary

ived from the employing office,

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
Oo ee Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1) Professional.
228 of ZOED, “Congress.

3. oO Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______.. Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Dote._. January 2 1979 _@

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the. Committee onthe Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Office of Finance use only: ID eee
Office Code... __._ Benefits ________-------------_
Monthly Annuity $._________00 asof 9 Payroll.

(Revised: August 1, 1977),

NW 68261 -
Docld:32244112 Page 4 f ;



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

. {Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE .OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

A i ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Bronda Lb. Welbarn _ December 39, 1977
Employee Social Security Number. - Type of Action yj

2G) Appointment
O Solary Adjustment j

—____ Employing Umtice or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

Termination (At close of business on effective date) 4
. CD Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
Assassinations oo. close of. business.
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) sod
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* i
Researcher $15,000 i

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional.
2&E¥ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. pes. 8885 OE ee aress,

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level_. Step_.

| certify that this .authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b),- prohibiting the. employment of
relatives.

Signature of Authorizing Official)

Stokes

All appointments and. salary adjustments for employees-under the House Classifica! tee em-- -]
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committeeon the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration:

APPROVED:._ :

Office of Finance use only: ID ooo oe 4
Office Code... Benefits __-_--___------------- 1
Payroll___--_--_

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee he

i — . we

NW 68261
Docid:32244112 Page 5

pod



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last)

Effective Date

Brenda L. Welburn

December 30, 1977

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

= a ons or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

heSisAppointment
0 Solory Adjustment
CO Title Change
C. Termination (At close of business on effective date)
CO Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business___.

iy Date

{If type of:action is cn Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

| Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher

$15,000

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

oO See Committee: Staff—O. Clerical or C1. Professional:

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the-House, complete item below.)

Position Number:

-lecertify that. this authorization .is not in-violation of 5 -U.S:C. 3110(b),. prohibiting the employment: of

relatives.

December 30

Date.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the-House Classification Act and for:Committee em-

ployees, except: those’ of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee. .on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must -

be approved by the Committee on House Admi

APPROVED: =
Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.
Monthly Annuity $2220 22.00 as of oe -
F (Revd: Avg 1 197)
Copy for Committee on House Administration 3 ded ao

i
{
i
1
1
1

NW 68261
|| Docld:32244112 Page 6

oe



MEMORANDUM

TO: -Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk“ ~

FROM: I..Charles Mathews, Special Counsel r.cU.
DATE: December 30, 1977

RE: Ms. Brenda Welburn

This memorandum is to advise you that Ms. Brenda
Welburn as accepted the position of Researcher with
the Select Committee. Her effective starting date is
December 30, 1977, and her starting salary, $15,000.00.
Your cooperation will be appreciated in familiarizing
Ms. Welburn with staff procedures and welcoming her

aboard.

IcM:j1

| NW 68261

Docld:32244112 Page 7


NW 68261

“MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Commi ttee’s —
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law hal f-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

G2 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Wy Ze 2.

Signature of Employee Dati

Docld:32244112 Page 8

