ennedy Assassination
cords Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note),
asett:NW 64954 Date:
14.20

Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

08/19/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF
194-10003-10428
FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AC643175W - PAGE 161

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

JEFF W. BOUCHER

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
MEMORANDUM

01/22/63

1

VECIANA BLANCH, ANTONIO

ALPHA 66

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: CONFIDENTIAL

1B, 2
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95

NW 64954
Docld:34517410 Page 1



a

In reply refer
to ACSI-CO WS
JAN 2 2 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR: DIRACTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGSRCE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)
ATTHs FI STAPF (Mr Roberton)

SUBJEOT: Alpha 66 (U)

ATS
Af A reliable source received the following information from Antonio
VECIARA on 16 January 1963:

A. Alpha 66 (the cover name for the sécond front of Recembray)
had eight (8) commande type actions planned te take place during the next.
60 days. Raids will be made by five (5) man commando parties. ‘Two (2)
of the men will be demolitions mn.

: B. Alpha 66 has ordered twelve (12) fiberglass, 16 ft, boats with
145 horsepower inboard motors from a Miami firm. Cost of each beat, with
motors, is $2,000.00. Alpha 66 has taken delivery on three (3) boats.
Remaining nine (9) boats to be delivered within the next 45 days.

C, Alpha 66 hast 1,000L1bs of C-3 explosives, with enough time=fuse
pencils for the amount of explosives, 60 submachine guns, 40 machine guns
and 100 hand grenades.

FOR THE ASSISTAN? CHIEF OF STAPF FOR INTELLIGENCE:

(a) H.W. Guonibner

JEFF W. BOUCHER
Colonel, G8 ;
Chief, Collection Division

| M/R: Above is ae Cable DAIN 8274, dtd 16 Jan 63, from AUTOBOAT CB).
Prepared by: Capt / USAOSD/5291,8/mth/163an63.
COORDINATION: Lt Col Drashpil g A Info: Maj Decker
rus: SDBVELAVK .

App roved:

161 VALS:
161 WOWNGRADED AT 12 ‘EAR Wi tRVALS:
Ce! Bey Z NOT AUTOMATICALLY, DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10 _

NW 64954
| Docld:34517410 Page 2

wsnose mesg. Pet §7

