# docid-32330815

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

• Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90093-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-2799-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE.:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/14/1958

10

JOSEPH JOHN PECORARO

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

19.1

NW 68262 Docld:32330815 Page 1

10

Date:

6/8/2015

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

59262 Date: 09.22-2022

---

## Page 2

NO 92-46

ADMINISTRATIVE

Inquiry regarding the Nola Printine

Company,

Jeilerson Parish.

is beingaconducted

in connection with the investigation on JOSHPH A.

PORETTO, local Top Hoodlum, who is the manager of this

company.

INFORMANTS'S

March 5, 1958.

NO-T-2 is NORMAN PERRY, Investigator,

Internal

Revenue Service,

New Orleans, contacted by SA I. M.

SHEARER, JR., on January 3, 1958.

NO T-3 is HENRY K. WEINBERG, Bell Auto Sales,

1810 St. Claude Avenue, New Orleans, a former employee

Of NOFIO PECORARO, contacted on March 7, 1950 and re-

quested that his

identity be concealea.

NO I-4 iS ALBERT L. PILSBURY, POl, contacted

by SA RAY E. ROCKHOLD on February 27, 1958.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

Besides PCI ALBERT L. PILSBURY, the following

are under consideration as PCI's:

ANTHONY GLORIOSO: bar operator and book maker.

In the past, he was a partner of SAMUEL DI PIAZZI, local

Top Hoodlum, knows CARLOS MARCELLO, Top Hoodlum, well,

and is also

CARPORT DET

associated with subject

and JOSEPH A. PORETTO,

local Top Hoodlum.

ALOYSIUS DARGIS: New Orleans slot machine

operator, who is acquaintance of CARLOS MARCELLO, TOp

Hoodlum,

and the local Top Hoodlums in the New Orleans

area.

He is reported

to be acquainted with the general

criminal setup in the New Orleans area.

ADMINISIRATIVE PAGE

-8 -

NW 68262 Docld:32330815 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-46

RAY MOND ROLLING: A handbook operator who is

a brother of Chief Criminal Deputy Sheriff EARL ROLLING

of Jefferson Parish.

He is acquainted with MARCELLO and

the local Top Hoodlums in the New Orleans area, and will

be in a position to furnish information regarding

their

activities.

Contacts with these individuals, it is

believed, will increase the coverage of the activities

Of JOSEPH PECORARO.

LEADS

NEW

ORLEANS DIVISION

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

(1)

Will maintain contact with informants

in the New Orleans area for information regarding the

activities of subject.

(2) Will check the records of the New Orleans

Police Department to determine whether HENRY A. VIRGA

has been

involved in any criminal activities.

(3) Will endeavor to obtain information re-

garding subject's financial status through contact with

the National Bank of Commerce and the First Homestead

and

Savings Association.

(4)

Will, through contact with the Jefferson

Parish Sheriff's Office, who investigated the murder of

DENNIS MELANCON, endeavor to ascertain the identity of

the relative of

subject who was assisting in the operation

of the Ranch Bar.

(5)

Will report information obtained by the

Bureau from the Internal Revenue Service when received

from the Bureau.

AT GRETNA, LOUISIANA

will, through public records, endeavor to

ascertain the ownership listing for the Ranch Bar.

REFERENCE

Report of SA JOHN I. REYNOLDS, dated 1/10/58,

at New Orleans.

ADMINISTRATIVE

PAGE

- 9 -

NW 68262 Docld:32330815 Page 3

---

