# docid-32560479

## Page 1

• ADMINISTR/ TIVE PAGE

PH 22-Lự

1-1

T-2

T-3

I-5

I-6

T-S

Infurmants

ROSE ROSITI, PCI, tU SA

JOSEPH A. VIRICA, July 18, 1958.

MORRIS KOVLAR, tO SA J. ROGERT

¡FARCE, August 22, 1958:

MIS. JOHN VERICA, mother ofSA JOSEPH

VERICA, who resides at 1738 Ritner

Street, Philadelphia, Pa., August

23, 1958.

Kwark PCI BENJAMIN MIADONE, to

SA OVEN J• JESSUF, June 19, 1958.

Newark 1925-C, to SA OWEN J. JESSUP;

June 19, 1958.

ALTERT LIICKETTO, former PCI of

Newark, to SA OWEN J, JESSUP, June

19, 1958.

Atlantic City Pulice lepartment

Detective JOHN MOONEY, whose identity

1s protected, at hts request, to

SA EMANUFL R. JOHNSON, June 4-5, 1958.

PH 514-C, to SA J. ROIERT FEARCE;

August 1,4, 1958.

PH 577-C, to SA J. ROLERT FEARCE,

August 11; 1958.

-30 -

ATMINISTRATIVE PAGE

Released under the John F. Kennedy Ascassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

62252 Date: 09.22.2022

70303871

NW 68262 Docld:32560479 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADNINISTRATIVE, PAGE. (CONTINUED)

PH 92-444

PH 257-0

PH 269-0

PH 467-0

Criminal Informant Cuverage

Informant fur many years closely

associated and acquainted with most

of the Philadelphia Iup Hoodlums,

Has furnished reliable infurmation

over ten year period on a monthly basis.

present value limited due to informant's

poor health. Has identified 3RUNOtS

associates and illegal activities.

Informant closely associated with

subjecte

Journeyed to Miami, Flao,

with IRUND and scheduled to act as

BRUNO's advisur in contemplated trash

collectiun contract, Dade County, Fla.

Has furnished information on location

BRUNo's numbers banks, BEUNO!s racket

employees, and associates, as well as

criminal activity. Furnishes information

on a weekly basis.

A numbers writer and pick up man in

South Philadelphia. Knows BRUNO and

other top houdlums. Frequents sume of

their known hangouts. Has furnished

information on BRUNO's methud of

operation in numbers and gambling,

and recent criminal activities.

Contacted on a monthly basis...

-31=

ADMINIS IRATIVE PAGE, (CONTINUEL:)

T!?:

NW 68262 Docld:32560479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MINISILATIVE PACE: (CONTINUED)

PH 92-L44

PH 514-0

PH 517-0

PH. 518-C

PH 489-0

A tipstaff Philadelphia County Courts,

member uf a well-known family conneoted

with illicit alcohol.

Informant's

bruther, CHARLES, currently partner of

Philadelphia Top Houdlum FELIX DE TULLIO

in still operation. Informant believes

BRUNO responsible fur murder of another

brother, MARSHALL, and is willing to

furnish information. Identified BRUNO's

associates and criminal activities and

muvements on a daily basis.

A numbers writer formerly associated

with IOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia Top

Hoodlum, in illicit alcohol. Close

friend of numbers runner employed by

PHILIP TESTA, BRUNO's lieutenant®

Furnishes information on a weekly basis

regarding BRUNO's movements, associates,

and activities.

Local prostitute with extensive arrest

record. Arrested with Philadelphia Top

Hoodlum PETER CASPLLA December, 1957.

Deceased husband was actively engaged

in numbers activity.

knows identity of

Individuals in numbers racket connected

with 3RUNO. Has furnished extensive

infurmation persuns invulved in narcuties

trafficing and those engaging in illicit

alcohol. Cuntact almost un a daily basis.

Numbers writer and bootlegger with many

local connectiuns. Has furnished infor-

mation in subject's activities and

assuciates. Contacted on a weekly basis.

= 32 -

"ARMENISTRATIVE PACE (CONTINUEL)

90310522

NW 68262 Docld:32560479 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ATMINISTRATIVE PAGE: (CONTINUES)

PH 92-144

PH

• 30-0:

PH 515-C

Can furnish daily Information regarding

movements, associates, and activities

of Philadelphia Tup Hoodlums WEISBERG

and HOFFMAN. Belleved currently

interested in uperation of horse books

for subject's South Philadelphia aroa.,

PCI JULIUS GOLDIFRO

Engaged in racket activity in Philadelphia.

Connected with Philadelphi. Top Hoodlums

WILLIE WEISBERG and CAPPY HOFFMAN»

Acquainted with must of racket element

in Philadelphia

PCI MORRIS KUVIER

Old-time bootlegger and gambler.

Acquainted with most of the Philadelphia

Top Houdlums. Knows subjecte

PCI LOUIS JAILI

Engaged in numbers with interest in

juke box business in Philadelphia,

PCI MORRIS FEINBURG

Formerly inactive informant, reupened

since he personally knuws subject and

has previously furnished infurmation

un him,

PCI ROSE ROSE TrI

Pormerly employed as waitress by

DOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia.

Personally acquainted with FELIX iE TULLIO,

Philadelphia. Brother of ANTHONY

¡FRRONE, lual bootlegger. Has known.

BRUNd and TRUNts camily all her life.

PCI ELIZABETH ROSETTI

Buy friend JOHN FUSCO local numbers

banker. Through this association well

acquazntea with local racket elements

Personally acquainted with SANTORE

brothers, one uf whom (JAMFS) arrested

with PETE CASELLA, Philadelphia, Lives

close to and knows BRUNo

BECAUSE BRUNO IS ALLEGE TO HAVE COMITTED GANGLIN EXECUTIONS

IN THE

PAST, HE SHOULE DE CONSIDERED RANGEROUS:

: -33-

ADMINISTRATIVE PACES (CUNCZUDEL)

NW 68262 Docld:32560479 Page 4

---

