# docid-34517479

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

64454 Date: 11-14-2022

Date :

Page

04/30/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10008-10134

RECORDS SERIES

INTELLIGENCE/COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: XE267803 - PAGES 304-314

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE : PERSONALITY REPORT FOR INFORMANTS

DATE: 00/00/00

PAGES : 11

SUBJECTS : TURZEW, VLADIMIR

RESIDENCE

IDENTIFY DOCUMENTS

PERSONAL DATA

FOREIGN TRAVEL

REASON FOR/RESULTS OF _ INVESTIGATION

MEETING ARRANGEMENTS/ CONTACTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

NW 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 1

---

## Page 2

GT3F

Date:

Code No:

Jussier NO: X11-4391

1.

FULL NADE:

TURZEW, WLadimir

a. Hicknames:

b. Cover Names:

• ORLOFF

c. Frevious lanes (If nace was ever changed):

d. Hiw is he referre. to b, his frienis?

Wladimir

2. IDENTITY DOCUNANT'S

B-U11-

20103

b. Others:

3. PR.SENT DEN.JÜ:

a. Telephone Noer (Hue)

b. Business Address:

c. Business Phone Number.

a switchboard or direct

37 Branderstrasse, AUGSBURG

Through

•4.

KOLPENAY,

; USSR.; ALESANDRIA,,

BONNY, USSR.

DUBN', CHUGUYIN, BARESPOL, UKRAINE USSR;

SMOLENSK,

BARAVAHA,

ESSR.

UHKOVO, USSR;

SAN MARIE, FRANCE: SKAGAIN, DENMARK

BERLIN, GERMANY:

BEROW, PRAGUE, CZECHOSLOVAKIA.

304

NIV, 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

¿. Late of Birth:

28 Mar 1923

b. Place of Birth:

KOLPINO, USSR.

c. Description: Sex_

M

Height 1900m S'8"

"'eight ?3kg Build slender

Color and

shape of eyes Brown (piercing)

..-—

E ebrows; straigh'& heavy

Glasses No

_Shape of nose straight

Teeth straight

Hair (color, quantity, shape Brown-thin

straight

and other characteristics

continuously grinning

Forehead_ High protruding, frontal baldness

Shape of mouth

alightly turned down at cornere

Shape of head

Oval

Carriage and mien poor posture, aroopy

Complexion sallow

Other characteristics:

twitching of toes, rubs hands frequently;

d. Narital Status and Data:

Wife:

None

Date of marriage and/or divorce: None

Children: ?

Nx78:

e.

Condition of married life (happy, etc.):

None

heligion, past and present:

Greek Orthodox.

305

2

NW 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 3

---

## Page 4

f,

Occupations, past and present:

1939-41

Telephone switchboarã operator & repairman

1945-46. 000k

Us

Army

1947-19 Ilectrician

Nationality

Russlan

DP

_C1 tizenship

66 POLITICAI APPILIATIO: S A D/OR ST'ATHIES (Parties, Positions,

activity)

None

a. Prior to 1933:

In 1956 SUBJEOT put 1n application for

D. 1933-1945: KoNsoMMóL, but since his parents had anta

soviet tendencies he was rejected.

c. Since 1945:

None

7. SPOTSE, FRIENDS, RELATIVES, ASSOCIATES (Inclide, whenever

possible, name, occupation, age and date of birth, place of

birth, address, political'afsiliation and relationship. Do not

forget to include nistresses.)

KOLOS, Ivan

;born: 3 May 1918;at ISCHAPLINO, USSR.

DP Oamp. Lelpham, friend & co-worker 1n CIC. activitles

WALTHER, Helmut,8 Sept 1904, Freiberg, Saxony, Private Deteètive

19 korrel strasse, AUGSBURG- coworker in CIC

activities.

KOSINEZ Anatole,

Odesse, Ukraine; mechanio,

Canp, Block 14, room 237,

17 Apr 1905 BIPHET ARsooLate In GIC activitles.

GREINEVITOH

dIaudia, (SONYA) 30 Oct 1907,3t. Petereburg, USBR.

Alexandre,

30 yrs old; auto mechanio, Born In USSR.

NYC. N. Y.

assoclate.

306

3

NW. 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 4

---

## Page 5

8i PREVIOUS EI

TRY (In chionalogical order, but Include following:

ai Iducatios (Types, school, 106:+10:, dates, rajars):

b. Employnant (Smoloyer, occatíon, location, dates, duties):

;c.

Military History (Units, ranks, duties: locations,

decorations):

do Political Fisiory (l'ore chronological details than are

stated in paragraph six (6) above):

e. Iravels. within and cutside of Germany: '

Account for each year of StaJEOn'S adult life

course for NOO's 535th. In of the lst Red Guard Division.

from July 1341 captured by the termans & escaged (sHorinsk)

50 July 41, worked at a farm Near JURKOVOW, "

BIELARUSSIA.

From 20 March 1942

In April of 1942 sent to Germany, but escaped near MINS&, USSR

Recaptured in April sent to PALOSK, USSA; escaped end

worked on afarm near PALOSK,

USSh. fron Aug-March 1945.

In Mar 1943 enlisted In VLASSOV'3 Army until May 1945.

Attended various language sohools at the following places:

Aug043- Feb .44

at Lithunanta, HaIX. MARIENPOL, USSR;

TAROGAN, USSR: ST. LERE, FRANCE: Served with the 605

BAT, Ist. S3. Division, Served under BUNECHENKO, General.

0o1. SARKOKOV

30. kay 1946;Y4t AUGSBURG. Oberhaugen Keltenhofer strß; Donaworth &,

Branderstr 37.

1949-49

_AUGSBURG, 37 BRANDERSYR.

307

INW,64954 Docld:34517479 Page 5

---

## Page 6

9. RIFEES

FET OE REPO-"S (Reporis

reports for which Si BTECh was the source):

Ukrainian and Suspected Soviet Agente.

the ST3rB0" or

10. ROASO LOR I: VES ICATIOW:. Vetting. as 0

P, 2) Informant,

_type (a.

110 PESULTS OL Ii VIS. IGNIO:: 'What facts regardine SUBTICT, other

than those contained in above paragrephs, did you gather from your

Investigation?) Include specificalluthe following;

Derogatory infornation Arrested in BINGO. 2n0s 1n-J011

b. Gaps or mysterious incidents in SUBT CI'S biography

c. Character and reputation in neighborhood, place of vort.

etc:

pfesently not khown

12. ACTION TAKEN AND/OR BEING IAYER: Check one

a Contact being maintained while waiting for results

checks and approval of headquarters

bo. Investigation continues. Subsequent report forthcoming .

Investigation completed.

Request aproval for employment

do Investigation discontinued

Why?

308

5

GN 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 6

''r.

---

## Page 7

Include estimates of S 3JECTI

Importance, 1n-

fluence, reliability, competence

and accessibility to information

of CI interest):

Presently unknown

14. Targets the informant is covering:

Various Unrainian political

parties, and

suspected suviet agenta, also general information.

Informant's relationshio to or position within or with reevect

tc the

target:

Informant has friends in the varbous

DP

camps who

can furnish him with cI information.

Fossibilitiës

of improverent os SUBJACI'S position with respect

to target:

None contemplated at the pres ent time

309

I, 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 7

---

## Page 8

15. EXACTLY

WHAT IS THE ILL OR AT SXPEOTES TO

ACHIVE AND BY

"EAT REIS IS EE EXPECTED TO ACHIEVE IN?

16. Date and circumstances surrounding the Initlal contact with

the informant; - How was he recruited? What was discussed?

When, where, why and how was SUBJECT approached?

SUBJECT was Initially recruited by CIC AGENT PETERSON (Capt)

through a friend Glaudla GREINEVITCH (SONJA) Who formerly

worked for PETERSON In BREMEN. SONJA recommended SUBJECT for

cic work i

310

ANW. 64954 Docld: 34517479 Page 8

---

## Page 9

17. 1507I1

A Tai GeNITs - When, where and

how is suat Ca con-

tacted oy handling agent? (Give complete details sufficient to

enable a new agent to handle SUEJBCI.!

SUBIOI IS contacted at least once a week. Usually contacts are

SUBJIe, pre-arrunged location, such ae safe and sto At night

"1s picked up in an undercover vehicle.

a.

When, where and how are heetings arranged and set?

see above

Do

When, where and how are phone contects arranged

Taxaxesona Il needed. otherwise contact Is arranged thru

Ir. Helput MALIHERS 19 Morell stragde,, aUCSBuRG. phone: 9553

c. Under what cover does the agent contact the informant

(1G Investigator, Kripo official, newspaper reporter, etc.)?

contact is

made in advance between agent & Informant

What agency does the informant think he is working for?

CIC

d. What cover names ara used by informant and Agent over the

phone or at meetings?

• SYDORKO

-YAROSHy

Informant- ORLOFF.

AGENT

MOROZ

$ RAK

311

ON 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 9

---

## Page 10

18.

Tips o

noline and paying infurmant.

at tios would you

give to a new Agent handling stbaul. how shouid StBICT be aupro

ached; what liline" or subject matter neets with a favorable re-

ception

from SiBlIUT; what is he usually paid; would he be insult-

ed if a straight noney. payment ware offered; how do you pay him

without offending his dienity; how do you (if you do) prevent him

from feeling that he is a "spitzel",; at netings, do you get right

down to business or do you chat for a while; if the latter, what

general topics?)

1. INFORMANT A payed-by.Mr,-WALTHERS.

2. " Ilkes to diecuss antl-sovlet topics.

3. " does not

feel offended. when he 1s payed lor services.

312

NIV. 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 10

---

## Page 11

19• PERSOin

a. Is ha emotionaly stable or nor?

Fair

Do What are his living standards

Poor

c. Is he basically honest?

'yes

do What ars his basic motives for supplying informationi needs

money occasionally

e: Moralsi average

Sincerity of religious baliefs?

Yes

f, Loyalty to family and friends? unknown

Go What ars his madur likes, dislikes, prejudices? en t1-Bolshevik

Hobbies?

How does he spend his irisure hours? Unknown

1. Smoking end drinzine hadita?

does not smoke, drinks moderate

J. Habits with the falr. (or not sa fair) sexi

Nommal

k, What does he read? Unknown

I. What are his major weeknesses? Unknown

m. Do=s he deal in Deckmarket? Io that extint? onot known

no Optimist or pessimisti

optimist

0. Fard working or

Lazy?

po Fitser or spendthrift?

do Family man or wolf?

ro Quiet or loud mouthed?

Go

Shy or aggressive?

average worker

not known

Ilkes woman

quiet

rather shy, bashful

average

to Stupid or brilliant?

u.. Calm or exeitable and nartous?

v. Concsited or modest?

Wo Gad-about or stayat--home?

nervous@slightly)

modest

not known

to Prompt or slowi

rather slow

Jo, Phlegnatic or argumentative 1 3.

attentive

So Is he respected by his acquaintances? not known

10

NW 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Believete you eruatealuation of starsd1?

What is yoUr usual evaluation of th information SUCT submits?

c-3.

Signaturs of Agint

Hichael Sydorko

Wasel Yarosh

Date:

4 Oct 49

314.

11

NW 64954 Docld:34517479 Page 12

---

