# docid-32295259

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10035

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ADAMS, JOHN L.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/06/1958

PAGES:

40

• SUBJECTS :

ABR, BKG, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, TRA, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE IA, INDEX PAGES 37-38

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ot

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

53252 Date: 09.22.2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 1

109

---

## Page 2

PEI 92-444

I-3 furthor statod that it is his opinion shat

BRUNo is subservient to FELIX DE TULLIi,

He bases his

N.

2011000 citient 42726115 who is a

Gus, inile chia

VENEZIALE in the oporation of a still.

partner of CH.RLSS

In approximatoly

1953 or 1954, 22003 CaSEll, Philadelphie top

heedluri, and

ALIED IEZZI, wantor to cissolve their intorost in the

Ticket Grill, 13th and Wherton Strouts, hilarionin.

brought a

prospective buyer to the Tickot rill. This

prospective buyor; prudo, and leazI, in ciscussing the

price being asked

for tho

grid aghad

a hoatod argumont with

IEZLI tolling SnUNO

"Do mela favor,

out of hore.

" IzZI then wont to rELIX

DE TULLIT, Wa.

a. "skinny nozor,

" ant told him of the argument.

DE TULLI. told IEZZI not to worry about it.

approximatoly

a wook after the accument, BRuNe called DE TULLIC an told

him about

the arcument.

time that whoevor was at fault

"FreDDy is my partner."

EZZI, commonly

known as LapDy, has boon icontifiod by T-3 as having part

interost in tho

Tolevision

Bar at 3th and

washin ton Strocts,

Philatelphia, with DE TULLIO.

Appreximately a wook after JUNc contacte? DE TULLIi,

gus MizzIe,

FREDDY IEZZI and DE TULLIO, were

standing outsile

of the Tolevision Bar when 3NUNe drove

by and did not soak.

This apparently alarmed F EDDY bocause he said to De TuLLIc,

"Look,

there goes shune and he didn't even speaks." SKINNY

said in effect, Who cares."

I-3 also stated that within the last two month

period, MAZZIe told him about driving dE TULLI's

car in

New Jersey.

MazZIe told him CLIVaTo

was in the back soat

being chauffored,

and, according to I-3, this indicates that

CLIVETO is a loader in

the Croaser Gang.

T-3 soid that

¿LIVATO. took over the position formorly

hold by lance

TEGINELLI.

Ho also statod that CLIVaTO

wis kidding SKINNY

and was not kidded back; therefore, this is so indication

that DE TULLIC is of lower rank than cLIValo

T-3 said that

people contact DE TULLIi te have mattors

straightened cut

and that ho always advisos those porsons that he will lot

- 16 -

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TH 92-444

JFK Law 11(a)

The above apparently refers to a crap game

which was formerly operated at l0th and Walnut Streets in

Reading,

have

As mentioned elsewhere in this report, informants

advised that JAMES GATTI, mentioned above, is an employee

Of JOE PUGNETTA, Philadelphia top hoodlum and presently

serves

as a bartender for RUGNETIA at the South Philly Grill.

At Philadelphia, Pa.

Rackets

on February 14, 1958, Philadelphia Confidential

Informant T-8 advised that 1t has come to his attention

through his own source that one ANGELO BRUNO 1s allegedly

"top man" in, the rackets in Philadolphia at the present

timo.

T'-8 did not claborate further

on this. ho stated

that if cortain of his former frionds, namely ANGELo SRUNo

and 'CAPPIE" HOWFMAN, Philadelphia top hoodlums, loarned that

he had oven talked to the FBI, 1t might bring

physical harm

to him.

On March 14, 1958, Philadelphia Confidontial

Informant T-9 advised

SA JOHN H. BIERMANN that ANGELO BRUNO

of the Groaser Gang who is "a well-known racket man in

Philadolphia," has an individual named PHIL TESTA who works

as his Lieutonant and right hand man and handlos BRUNo's money.

He also advised that another individual who doos

the same

thing for BRUNo, is known to him only as "Do Do."

Also on March 6, 1958, I-9 advised that he is

indebtod to BRUNO in the amount

of 43,000.

He said that

BRUNO continues to keep his hand in most all typos of rackots,

including numbers, alcohol and anylocking.

He said as far as

he knows,

BRUNO was still ono of the top men in the Greaser

hang; however, since the Italian hoodlums mot at Apalachin,

N.Y., last year, thoro has been some talk that BRUNO doos not

control the Greasor Mol, in Philacelphia.

On March 14, 1958, I-9 advisca SA BIERMANN that onc

FRED/KLOSTERMAL has a large numbers business in Philadolphia,

doing about $5,000 por day.

He said KLOSTERMAN is in with

CAPPIF HOFFWAY and WILLIE WEISBERG, Philndolphic top hoodlums,

::

- 22.

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PF 92-444

Informant stated BRUNO is said to havo mado some

vory big loans

to various membors of the Jewish Mrb

to have bankrolled thom in many of their activitios.

Inf rmant further stated but could not substantiate,

that BRUNO has made a vory

large amount of money

bortlogging racket and was sair tr have oporator one still

for approximatoly 15 months, thereby clearing ovor $1, 000,000.

Loan Sharking

On January 31, 1958, Philadolphia Confidontial

Informant 1-12 advisod

SA JOHN H. BIERMANI that he was

indebted to subjcot's brothor-in-law, RaLPH MARaNCA, for

approximately $30,000.

Ho statod he

is having difficulty

making ones meet and he is paying MR NC: off in small

amounts cach woek.

By lottor datod February 19, 1958, the Now York

Division advised that New York Confidential

Informants had

state. the subject was not known to them anc they har never

heard his name mentioned in criminal circles in the lew Ycrk

arca.

The New York Office alse advised that the records

of the Credit Bureau of Greater New York, as furnished by

PAULINE DE FIORE tO SA PAUL F. ROLANDS on February 10, 1958,

failed to reflect any record of the subject.

The files of the New York City Police Department

Identification Division as

checked by a clerk of that

department

- 25 -

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(E) LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

Jade County, Ila.s

Irash Collection Contract

By airtel dated February 6, 1958, the Miami Division

advised that DANIEL P. SULLIVAN,

Operating

Manager, Miami

Crime Commission, had

advised on

February 5, 1950,

that he

personally,

very discreet manner, ascertained that the

garbage and

trash contracts for Miami, Miami Beach and Dade

County, Fla., are being handled by municipal employces and

that these three municipalitios do not contomolate making

any contracts regarding garbage and trash handling to any

private interprises or contractors.

The Miami Division also advisod that no inquiry

would be made at the Golden Nurgot Motel, Miami Beach, Fla.,

unless advised to the contrary, in view of the fact the Goldon

Nugget Hotel is a known hoodlum hangout and the possibility

exists the inquiry would reach BRUNO and have an cifect on

negotiations of BRUNO, Philadolphia Confidential Informant

T-10 and othors involvod in the garbage and trash contract.

On February 18, 1958, Philadelphia Confidontial

Informant I-10 Idontifiod the Sonator from Florida, previously

roferred to by him as "Senator MORRIS," es boing Florida's

State Sonator

JOSEPH EATON.

The informant insists that the

trash collection contract is to bo awarded

in Dade County,

Fla., which includos Wiami and Miami. Beach, for both commer -

cial and

rosidential.

I-10 stated ho did not know who the

Attorney HAFT or senator EATON would contact to obtain such

a contract..

He stated that necossary negotiations aro being

handled by the Italian cloment, apparently througa sin

GALLUP (phonetic).

By airtel dated March 19, 1950, the Miami Divisior

advised that DAVID GIASS, FBI #3733099, formerly

• from Phila-

delphia, and the present owner afd operator of

' the Golden

Nugget Motel,

Miami Beach, Fla., was interviewed on

February 19, 1958, by SAs

ROBERT K. LEWIS and ELMER F. EMRICH

in connection with anothor mattor.

GLASS advised that he

knows BRUNO and that BRUNO was not rogistored at the Golden

Nugget Motol at that time.

GLASS was

not recoptivo to ques-

tions rogarding BRUNO; therefore, his

association with BRUNO

was not pursued any further.

-26-

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 5

---

## Page 6

227 92-444

Informants

I-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

T -5

T-6

I-7

I -8

T - 9

I-10

I-11

I-12

T.- 13

I -15

Dickinson

Strect, Philadolphin.

PH 251-C

2H 514-0

PH 467-0

PH 517-0

Philadolphia Police Officer ROGEN MANCINI

whose idontity is kept confidontial due

to his position..

EDWARD QUADY, Bureau of Internal revenue,

reading, Pa.

POI JULIUS GOLDBENG, WaS.

PH 489-0

PH 269-C

LEOM ID NUTIGLIANO, Philadolphia FOlice

OffICOr,

whose name is kopt confidential

by roquest.

PH 131-C

PCI JOSEPH RONCONI

WILLIAM O'DONNELL, Suporvisor, Book-

keoping Department, Broad

• Street Trust

Compe ny, Philadelphia.

Income Tax reperts of Internal revenue

Service, furnished by Buroau.

ADMINIST TIVE 2A GE

- 33-

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PH 92-444

Contacted by tho llew York Office:

NY 169-C, NY 842-C and NY 1981-0.

2H 131-C

Criminal Informant Coverage

Prosont criminal informants boing utilizod:

This informanths known subjoct for quite some

timo and has an indobtodness at this time with

subjoct.

2H 251-0

3H 269-C

PH 467-0

PH 468-C

TH 489-0.

PH 514-0

This informant has Inown subjoet for a period of

years as well as othor hiladelphia top hocdlums.

He is in close contact with top hoodlums and can

furnish informtion rogarding current activities.

This informent as previously

set out,

is closely

associated with subject and is supposed to act as

advisor for subject on contemplated trash contract

Dade County, Fla.

This informant is a numbers writer and pick-up

man in South Philadelphia.

He is presently trying

to obtain current information on

subject and other

top hoodlums.

This

informant, a local madam

and prostitute, who

knows some of top hoodlums and thor racket people,

has recently been out of town.

She has now roturnod

to ihiladelphia and is endcavoring to obtain infor-

mation concerning hiladelphia top hoodlums.

This informant is activoly associated with thiln-

delphia top hoodlums WILLIE WEISBENG and

SAMUEL

HOFFMAN. He knows subject BRUNO and other Phila-

dolphia top hoodlums and is in a position

to obtain

information on subject.

This informant is ablc to obtain information on

Philadolphia top hoodlums in South Philadelphia

and furnishos current informtion regarding tho

activities of Philadolphia top hcodlums.

ADMINIST FIVE PAGE (CONT.)

- 34 -

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 7

---

## Page 8

1II 92-444

2CI SAMUEL MULLICA

PH 517-C

PCI JOSE'H TONCONI

t'hiladelphia jolico

Officor LEONAND

RUTIGLIANO

¿hiladolphia iclice

Officer ROGEN

MANCINI

MORIS FEINBURG, Wa.

LOUIS LALLI

This informant is a numoors writer

end

is supposed to contact subjoct's associates

regularly with the numbors

businoss.

This informant is woll acquainted with

South Philadolphia hoodlums and some

childolphia top hoodlums and is in a

position

to obtain curront information

on subject and his associatos.

This informant is a resirent

of south

Philadolphia and is in a position to

obtain information regarding the

current

location of ihiladolphia top hoodlums.

This police officer is well-acquainted

with hordlums in South thila lelphia as

a result of his invosti ation and furnishes

information to Si JOSELHi. VEnIC.

This police officor was born and raised in

South Thiladolphia. He activoly investigated

the killing of MA SHALL VENEZIALE and has

furnished a great deal of background infor-

mation on shiladolphia top hoodlums and is

in a position to obtain current information

on subjoot, his associatos and other hila-

celphia top hoodlums.

¿CIs to bo Doveloped

& former symbol-numbered informant whose

case has boen reopened. To date FEINBURG

has

not boen located.

This iCI has been reopened and contacted. It is

felt he can furnish information regarding subject

and it should be noted that the IALLI faction and

BRUNO "recently hau

an argument over the banking

of numbers, "

aS

set

out in this roport..

ADMINIST ATIVE PAGE (CONT.)

- 35 -

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 8

---

## Page 9

2H 92-444

DOMINICK CCIOZZI

PASCUALE MONELI, WaS.

Reportor as being office managor of

sub joct's bank.

Has been intorviewed on

sevoral occasions, each tine appearing

morc

frionaly.

This person is roported to run a

numbers bank in South Philadelphia

and is rop rtod to bo having troublo

with thọ BUNO faction. It is folt

he should be ablo t furnish current

information

on numbors activity in

South Philadolphia.

BECAUSE BRUNO IS ALLEGED TO HAVE COMMITTED GANGLAND

EXECUTIONS IN THE PAST,

HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS

ADMINISTRATIVE LAGE (CONT.)

- 36 -

NW 68262 Docld:32295259 Page 9

---

