Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA 5
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10145 f:ssassination Records Collection Act of
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS $92 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case: NW
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ao

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 9

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261 Docld:32244087 Page 1



Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

: HSCA

: 180-10070-10145
RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

DATE : 01/03/77
PAGES : 9

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
RISINGER, MARTIN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

|. NW 68261 Docld:32244087 Page 2


” PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. /

-{ +» (Please Use Typewriter ‘6 AUS. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES** Cc (any erasures, correct Mee tein

i 7 in this form must-be
inset ws. Jor-Ballpoint Pen). °_ < Washington; D.C. 20515. ' authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ce Effective Date

V2f27475

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

&] Appointment
Employing Office or Committee CO) Salary Adjustment :

fitee on Assassi

: y vy Termination (At close of business on effective date}
Select Coma ations 7 sete

(If: type-of actionsis.an Appointment or:Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary

Document Clerk - i 310,509

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. DD Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical of

Professional.

2.1] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Re:

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) : ‘

«
gisestaniiaaieiaussossiasits If applicable, Level________.Step_-______

Position Number.

(Type or prin! nome of Authorizing Oficial)

ve on Assa

“All appointments and salary adjustments for employeesunder the: House Classification Act:and for, Committeeem-
~ ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations;.the Committee on the Budget; and-the-Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

eee APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

| certify that this. authorization is not in violation of 5 :U,S.C. 3110{b), prohibiting. the: employment’ of
relatives.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

NW 68261 Docld:32244087 Page 3 une co


CF i ro : 1995 0 57-285 C)
“PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections; or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 SACRE tineieh Ne initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Marlin Risinger V/3/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
: JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D) FF Appointment
{ps -
Employing Office or Committee D Solary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Committee on Assassinations

(If type. of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title : Gross Annual Salary

Document Clerk $10,000.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

“1. [J Standing Committee: Staff-L] Clerical or Professional.

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H, Res..222___of 95th Congress.

3. [1 Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

Step________

I: certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
‘relatives. ‘

(Signoture of Authorizing Offiial|

x Henry B. Gonzalez __

(Type or print nas

“All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
. be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office.cf Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $. 00 ‘

“NW 68261. Docld:32244087 Page 4 - Copy for Initiating Office or-Committee

Peo



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION..FORM.
(Please Use Typewriter’. - U.S. HOUSE-OF REPRESENTATIVES {any erasures, corrections: or. changes:
. FF if on this form must initial 'y
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 : authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:: ...
| hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Marlin Risinger IIT 8/1/77
‘ Employee Social Security Number Type of Action *
5 (g) (2) (B) |
sey Cl Appointment ;
Employing Office or Committee - ® Solary Adjustment 1
Assassinations 1 Terminotion (At close of business on effective date) |
i
(If type of action is an Appointment.or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) |
1
Position Title Gross Annual Salary |
Document Clerk 15,009 !
4
1
(If Committee Employee, complete appropricte:item below): 1
1. C Standing Committee: Staff=[] Clerical or'L] Professional. (
y |
2. |] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.465___ of 95H Congress,
3. [J Joint Committee. i
(IF Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below) <= ost oo. |
4
Position Number____________.__- If applicable, Level. Step. |
1
| certify that this. authorization. is not in. vidlation=of 5.-U. : |
relatives. a }
Dote August 2 1977 |
ieseaedtedl wens sitet ston useetisestsscttssituatsiassiazsctt senieaat 7 Gignature of Authorizing Official) ;
/ LOUIS STOKES }
Type 0° print acme of Authorizing Officiah nee
CHAIRMAN :
H
- All appointments ond solary.adjustments for-employees under,.the House Classification Act and for Committee’ em- i
-ployees,, except those of-the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee .on the: Budget, and the Joint Committees, must 4
+ be approved. by the Committee on House Administration: + Sop ar - 4
i
APPROVED:
i
4
Office of Finance use only: .- j
Office Code___ | _ 2 - '
Monthly Annuity $. 1
eee
Copy for Initiating Office or Commitiee :

NW 68261 Docld:32244087 Page 5 : f



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures,.corrections, or changes

i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

[ i Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Mariin Risinger Tif December 1, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D 1D Appointment
UI Sia Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee - D Title Change
, 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date]
% Assassinations 1D Leave without pay (Beginning with effecti

close of business__.

(If. type of action.is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change,.complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher $18,199

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant {includes.U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the: annuity re
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Gl Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 11 Professional.
2. EX Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H- Res. 265 - of 25tHtcongress.

3. © Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______-_---___. If applicable, Level_______.. Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in. violation of
relatives.

|
|

December 1

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for:Committee em-:
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on: the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: SE ee ees eee eee eee eee ee eee eee

Chairman, Committee on House Administration
eb

Office of Finance use only: 1D

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

j
i
r|
!

ema ast

[ 68261 Docid:32244087 Page 6 ae

EY


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

$
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (Any erasures, corrections, or changes |

7 " on this form must be initialed. by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) i j
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: {
j
1 hereby authorize the following payroll action: 4
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date 4
4
Marlin Risinger LIT January 1, 1978 Hl
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action s
( peeprereeeeert | i
ee 1 Appointment '
ee #0), Salary Adjustment 4
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Ci Title Change 4
‘ “| Gl Termination (At close of business on effective date) iH
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Begi date above and e 3
close of business____. H
Specify Date i
(if type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) 4
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* {
4
Researcher $15,000 |
* If employee is.a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee :
plus the salary received from the employing office. i
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) fi
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. ;
2. {2 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res._ 465 of 95¢hCongress. ‘
3. Oi Joint Committee. j
2
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) i)

Position Number_________-__-_ If applicable, Level

relatives.

Date.

be approved by the Committee on House Administration. i

APPROVED:

_ | certify that this authorization is not. in violation of 5° U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of

(Title=If Member, District and Stote)

All appointments and salary adjustments foremployees under: the House Classification Act. and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

.Copy-for Initiating Office or. Committee

|
68261 Docid:32244087 Page 7

(Revised: August 1,197)

Vea ee cite oe ate ice nnaetel Pome a ERS scam Me

ity



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter C} “U'S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i ‘on this form must be initiated by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date -
Merlin Risinger III : 7/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

D0 Appointment

| SSEETEEFEEPSSEVEENERTSUETLS
net 5 (a) (21(D
Si didtfeshdsbieeics eer O Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee GyTitle Change
TS'erminotion (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

—— tL
* tt employee is a civil service annuitant {includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.
¥ 7 eee . ‘i . : 956. 35th
2. © Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.~_ |: of __- Congress.
3. 01 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this’ authorization is. not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date.

fe of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN

Citle “if Member, District and Stove)

All appointments and. salary adjustments for employees under- the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

airman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code...

Monthly Annuity $_

Copy for Initiating Office:or Committee

NW 68261 Docid:32244087 Page 8



s,oahoidwo ouy ut pails aq
20K Jepudjea yoco Jo pu

ore Beno 94 9 XII.
ee ee ae ipod

ms pioda? duy enordde uodn *wo!you!
Ye OSAOH OYE JO H19}D OY} Oo:

{mopDg uoseay 9}C35 'VBjs 04 sasnjo dofojduso jt)

ounjeudig 3,00k0(6.u3

2100 i vamieudis $491u9 ng

TLOBYYOO CFSLYIO

303 YSONbos uy YM
99 IIA P1092 SUL

im Onca! Aep $19
ouyntun fep or = [24] 20(A_} %

jeyineun fea 4°

aca T

ee — f-

|

a=

5 eer

€/

oc | es [st

ztfirfecte |

: D oz
O° st

pee ; : OD ot

y AUODTLVD

‘SAV3 TVONNY
HYIA
SLb/
© @uOoFe FAVET WNOSUAd
SIAWVINASIYIY JO 3SNOH “SN
XYIIO FHL JO 30140

O oo )

yr97

bing vonises

spawuay auaud

: ssoupny,
Fann al

sruuppy |

aokoqews jo own

UTTZeEW ‘UHONISIY

we)

oI
if

INw 68261 Docid:32244087 Page 9



io

j [nw 68261 Docid:32244087 Page 10

é O

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law |
mother “niece sister-in-law i
son husband stepfather }
daughter wife stepmother. |
“", brother father-in-law stepbrother |
sister mother-in-law stepsister i
uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister \
first cousin |

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved

“Richard A. Sprague

I am not related wae

I am related by the following relationship

Mad C ut [[ lo] 77
Signature of Employed Date



MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

nN
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel W eC. We
DATE: January 4, 1978

RE: Marlin Risinger, Salary Adjustment

Please adjust the salary of Marlin Risinger to
* $15,000 per annum, effective January 1, 1978.

| inw 68261 Docld:32244087 Page 11
