# docid-32285482

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10193-10258

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

94-37374-2ND NR 35

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65360 Date: 12:14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DONAHOE, S. B.

TO: BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE :

DATE: 09/23/1960

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

TRACt 5 (9) (2) (D)

JFK, SPEECH, REACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65360 Docld:32285482 Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED, STATES GOVER

IENT

Memorandum

TO

A. F. Belmont 0i

1

-

Pars

1

-

Belmont

-

Donahoe

- G. C.

Moore

DATE:

9/23/60

1 - Ruehl

FROM

Telson

Mohi -

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

lauroachs

Malone

McGuire

Rosen .

Crnm

Potter

•co Sallivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

SUBJECT:

S. 3. Donahooja JohN F. Kinusde

REACTION TO

KENNEDY

TEr

SEGRET

INTERNAL SECURITY

1990

1628 REP/

NOV 8

BY

ON: DADR

Ambassador to U.S. advised (43

his country/ 8/26/60 Senator John kennedy

delivered speech to

Zionists Congress re solution Arad-

na sad sted speech containe a an and x 5 con tea a

statements and promises.

by Senator J. W• Fulbright

Chairyan, Foreign Relations Committee,

who apologized for Kennedy's speech and explained it was dictate

by political expediency.

CLA.

DECLA

ntercept

m 9/22/00, National security

asency furnished an

KraIIIC IromI

(TS)

dated 8/26/60,

Classifled "Iop Secret

Daunt" as it

relates to communications intelligence

as 341v9

According

to the intercept,

Ambassador claimed

Senator Fulbright stated

Kennedy's speech

was not an expression

of what could be considered

POLICY OI Democratic administration

with Kennedy as President

regarding

feelings, thus indicating

Senator Kennedy places personal interest before justicé and

interests of U.S. / Senator Fulbright was advised continued efforts

sequences, and

Ambassador expected Senator Fulbright to exertTs

efforts

to

such activities.

Senator Fulbright stated he would

attempt to comply with this request y

INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXC

Ambassador advised his superiors Senator Fulbright(TS,

contacted

probably after consulting with Senator Kennedy:

I OTHERWISE

whose speech was motivated by Senator Kennedy's desire:" to

obtain Jewish,.

Catholic, and Negro minority votes in order to

compensate for his loss

votes among. Protestant majority which

opposes kennedy because!

of his Catholicism.

The Ambassador wag

WHERE SHOWN

VERCLASSFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR 3 26 47

(O DEGLASSIAY ON: 25X

29S ArdE

SECRET (JEK):

NOT RECORDED Pe

46.00T

TI8 SEP 29 1960

SEC,

52 OCT 2

Tony

TO MR. TOiSON,

32114

ARIGINAL

COPY FLED IN

109-12-376

NW 65360 Docld:32285482 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memo

RE:

Donshoe te Baliens

REACIION TO

SPEECH OF SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY

7JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

of the opinion purpose of speech was solely to obtain Jewish

votes rather than to formulate party or governmental policy.

He believed such speeches are consistent with Zionist's efforts

to create breech between

and other governments

It was opinion of

Ambassador that Senator Fulbright's IJ

visit with him not be disclosed

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

XF(4)

гера

0/24

TOP SECRET

-2-

NW 65360 Docld:32285482 Page 3

---

