JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI =
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10200-10264
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2713-486
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTION:
CURRENT STATU!
DATE OF LAST REVIE

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

COLLINS, PATRICK J. JR.
DIRECTOR, FBI

04/26/1968
23

CM, INFT, LCN, ASSOC, RACK AND SUBV

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

12/09/1997

INDEFINITE

NW 68262 Docld:32288988 Page 1


HO 92-36 .

shopping center development in New orleans, Louse iana
and how financed.

NEW ORLEANS
AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 1.Will report on outstanindg”

investigation being conducted in Field Divisions , other thn New
eans ,

2. Interview Mrs. GLADYS PIPER, Hotel ~- Motel
Association, New Orleans, Louisiana.

3. Locate and interview JOSEPH ALMERICO re his
alleged beating by MARCELLO.

4. Interview JOHN ALES re Air Charter International
and the Harvey Canal Seaplane Service.

5. Will recontact Detective JERRY WILLIAMSON.
re MARCELLO's control in Lafayette, Louisiana.

6. Will identify registrants of Louisiana license
366464 and 61G111. ae

7. Will follow and’ report activities of the
subject.

INFORMANTS: \ ed ‘

IDENTITY OF SOURCE CONTACTING AGENT
ae —=——- !
NO T-1 . :
NO 1529-Pc SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR. |
NO T-2 i
NO. 1188-C SA L.. M. SHEARER, JR.
NO T-3 :
a NO 1366-C SA PATRICK J, COLLINS, JR.

NO T-4

NO 2582-PC SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

B

(COVER PAGE)

Ri STE II SUT)

NW 68262 Docld:32288988 Page 2


RO 92-36

XDENTITY OF SOURCE CONTACTING AGENT

NO T-5
NO 1435-C-TE : SA. JACK EVANS MEHL

NO T-6 a
TOM MOORE, Manager,»Town House "
(By request) SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

NO T-7
NO 1457-C-TE SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

NO T-8
SF 2689-C-TE

NO T-9

MASON BAILEY - PCI SA CHRISTOPHER MAZZELLA
NO T-10 2

NO 1521-c : SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD
NO T-11 ‘

NO 1458-PC SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.
NO T-12

NO 1548-C-TE SA THOMAS-L. COLARELLI
NO T-13 ii

NO 1600-PC SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI
NO 'T-14

NO 1525-c SA THOMAS E. DUHADWAY
NO T~15

NO 1416-c ‘ SA WILLIAM P. GREAVES
NO T-16_

DORIS MOREHEAD - PCI SA PATRICK C. CAHILL
NO T-17

Detective JERRY WILLIAMSON,
Intelligence Unit,
New Orleans Police Department SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN

ee c
Dee (COVER PAGE)

NW 68262 Docld:32288988 Page 3


; @ ee
ia —
‘NO 92-36

IDENTITY OF SOURCE CONTACTING AGENT

NO T-18 i

NO 1626-C SA CHRISTOPHER MAZZELLA

NO T-19 a

SA 775-C-TE SA DAVID A. BARCLAY

NO T-20

JANICE T. GROSS - PCI SA EUGENE TEREFENKO

NO T-21 :

JOHN STEELE - PCI ‘ SA WILLIAM F.. KUSCH

NO T-22- ;

NO 1603-PC : SA ‘THOMAS L. COLARELLI -

NO T-23

TP 41-C-TE SA JOHN AMBLER
ADMINISTRATIVE:

MARCELLO has been the subject of extensive news
media reporting in the past three months under his alleged
association with AUBREY YOUNG and other political figures
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. None of this information from
the news media being incorporated in this report. This
matter has resolved itself into apolitical fight in Louisana
as to who is and who is not controled by MARCELLO.

On January 25, 1968, NO 1232-C-TE provided
information relative to the fact that CARLOS MARCELLO was
attempting to bribe EDWARD GRADY PARTIN in the amount of
$50,000 to change testimony he had previously given in a
U. 8. District Court resulting in the confinement of JAMES
HOFFA, teamster unit official. Informant advised that he
had recently talked to CYRIL PORETTO who told him that.
JOSEPH PORETTO, close associate of MARCELLO, advised him
that he had observed the $50,000 in an attache case he
was carrying. MARCELLO told JOSEPH PORETTO that this
$50,000 was for PARTIN. JOSEPH PORETTO claims that he
strongly recommended that MARCELLO not involve himself
in the HOFFA matter.

D
(COVER PAGE)

NW 68262 Docld:32288988 Page 4
