JFK Assassination System Date: 4/29/201
992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw Identification Form
Agency Information i
: AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90120-10011
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 97-4196-29-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 11/30/1960
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
FPCC.

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

08/28/1998

INDEFINITE

MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32334906 Page 1


= Sanaicsenui0-tumeus . sc auscastaiacaacesel Fae

See ;
>: _orriowat rors NO. 10 1 S
it ‘UNITED STATE: 1)
DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4196) pate: 11/30/60
7 L&-sac, MIAMI (105-3040) peera
Wo cade
super: sma parade
RA - CUBA MEAal j

(00: NEW YORK)

cove |

Re Miami airtel to Bureau 10/20/60 and New
York airtels to Bureau 10/19/60, and 10/26/60.

1 QV The following sources, all of whom have some ~

Ind knowledge of the Communist Party activity in the Miami

| & ail area and who have furnished reliable information in the past,

~ y were contacted on the ct indicated concerning the FPCC

* Wwith negative results: x5 |

a SR / |
aX MM 292-S, 10/27/60. H

a MM 368-S, 10/31/60. (2)

CS MM 463-S, 11/8/60.

On October 25, 1960, MM 639-S, who has exhibited
aa wide knowledge of Cuban activities in the Miami area
ti! and who has furnished reliable information in, the past,
© advised that the FPCC is unknown to nie SAW)

Pe

- Bureau (RM)
2 - New York (97-1792)(RM)
2 - Miami (105-3040)
WWC :bna

NW 64578 Docld:32334906 Page 2


MM 105-3040

On October 21, 1960, PSI MANUEL ALVAREZ DE LA
CAMPA, Traffic Supervisor, Cubana Airlines, Miami
International Airport, with whom ins fficient contact
has been had to judge his re : Zbut. who is in
a position to furnish the in F isted, advised
that he had no information concernifg t the PCC or any
flight to Cuba sponsored by the FPCC.

i On Ocober 21, 1960, OLIVIO MORENO, Traffic
| Department, Pan American World Airways, Miami International
Airport (protect identity by request), advised that he had
no information concerning any trip to Cuba from Miami
sponsored by the FPCC via Pan American World Airways.

On November 17, 1960 esx ROSA GUERRA »)
SANTANA, With whom insufficient contact has been had

judge reliability, advised that the FPCC has been in
existence for a considerable period of time, that its
headquarters are in New York City, and that it publishes a
pamphlet called "Fair Play". This source advised that

the FPCC is definitely a pro-CASTRO organization, but
stated that there is no indication that the FPCC has any
connections with the Communist Party or the Socialist -
Workers Party in the Miami area.

Miami will endeavor to develop further pertinent
information concerning the activities of FPCC in the Miami
| area, and will immediately advise the Bureau and interested
offices of any further developments.

sarvse evea tl

NW 64578 Docld:32334906 Page 3

