JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90091-10069 992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Casel:Nw
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —166-636-5
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 11/27/1963
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32330638 Page 1


DL 166-102

2. Will maintain close contact
Assistant Chief of Police, Irving, Texas,
to institute an intensified investigation
who is presently living at Irving, Texas.

with LEON POWERS (N.
who is attempting
on subject MATTHEWS

A)

3. Will maintain contact with informants, sources, and
reliable law enforcement officers concerning MATTHEWS'

activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

E Investigation to date by Dallas Division has failed
to indicate a possible violation on the part of MATTHEWS
involving the Federal Gambling Statutes; however, it is
noted investigation is still outstanding in the Oklahoma City

Division. In the event the Oklahoma City

investigation is

negative concerning a violation, UACB, Dallas will close
' the 166 file with letterhead memorandum and re-open Dallas -
file captioned RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS, AR, Dallas file

92-213, Bufile 92-4587.

On 7/30/63 and subsequent dates, PCI.JJACK RITTER of
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, advised SA ROBERT W. KNIGHT that he
had no information concerning GEORGE EDWARD BARNES having
any interests in the gambking clubs in the Dallas - Fort Worth
area. RITTER advised that although BARNES had interest in
gambling clubs in Oklahoma City area, he had no information
revealing BARNES' interest in the Dallas - Fort Worth area.

On 9/24/63, DL 185-C-TE advised that the subject,
who is believed to be part owner of the Redman Club locate
at 1606 Young Street, Dallas, had been recently observed
by the #nformant having lunch at the Club Montmartre with

notorious Dallas bookmaker JOHN L.X’STOW

Informant stated.

pat cas Doosmax?
that he has been advised tha is being used by STO!
for the collection of unpaid gambling debts.

AS
sey

DL 185-C-TE advised that on the night of 10/21/63 that
a local Dallas gambler and hoodlum GLEN, URNETT had taken
MATTHEWS to Mistys, a gambling club Seated at 4208 Live Oak,
Dallas. After MATTHEWS departed with another individual,
BURNETT was upset over the fact that when he picked MATTHEWS

up at the Redman Club, 1606 Young Street,

MATTHEWS placed a_

pistol and a sawed-off shotgun in BURNETT's car. BURNETT
related that when he departed Mistys, MATTHEWS had left the’
weapons in the car and BURNETT feared that the local authorities

might stop him and find the guns.
-B-
COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32330638 Page 2



DL 166-102

On 10/28/63, the above informant advised that
RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS is no longer employed at the Redman
Club and believed that he was presently booking football vbets » :
on telephone number BL 4-2584. 7
On 11/13/63, the informayt advised that he had heard

that MATTHEWS and a JOSEPH "SOFI. EBRON were operating a ' TetAs |
ant previously advised ee

bookmaking. operation together. in
at on @ night of 11/6/63, BURNETT’, GEBRON, and MATTHEWS
had been in Fort Worth, Texas, together on the night of

11/3/63. Informant obtained this information from a conver-
sation with BURNETT.

On 11/8/63, DL 170-C advised that MATTHEWS was
presently residing at 2207 Greenbrier Street, Irving, Texas,
and that MATTHEWS had recently punchased his new 1964 white
over blue Oldsmobile bearing Texas license RA 6568 from the
Musser Motors, Terrell, Texas. Informant stated that the
cost of the car was $3,900 with MATTHEWS having had a $525
equity in his 1962 Oldsmobile and that MATTHEWS added $600
cash to this transaction. The car is financed through the
American National Bank, Terrell, Texas, with balance of
$100 per month for 36 months, cr stated that MATTHEWS can
usually be located through contacting his daughter at 4509
Southern, Dallas.

MR, LEON POWERS. (NA), Assistant Chief of Police,
Irving, Texas, was advised of. the presence of MATTHEWS
in Irving, Texas. He advised that he would immediately
institute an investigation on the subject with efforts being
made to intensify the investigation to learn of MATTHEWS‘
contacts and associates. He stated that he would keep the
FBI advised of all pertinent information received.

ie isk Hee
COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32330638 Page 3
