# docid-32271935

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10143-10131

RECORD SERIES:

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 28-11-11D

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

SENSITIVE ORIGINAL WITHHELD BY CIA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

3

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: FORM

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 18; Original document held by CIA.

NW 64578 Docld:32271935 Page 1

Date:

3/24/201

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64578 Date: 12.09-2022

---

## Page 2

024>

-SECRET

number.rwas..0/59/459.=

Cia 1952 agae was firing in France. ind was

arrested by tech anchokes on. changes resetting fine his.

indement in singling pencillin and then antibutes it.

Frauce. He was a jail for is minocha.

In a Jamary 3, 1963 rignt, headzuaters ripated extreme

interest. in mounting an spection aimed at the recritment

8 Azine. Ihe reput states that hyene was are architect,,..

intellent in who fust fri Clais hit infatuate, has

ist. tantries Nast f the file. deals with the

amonget thee routing se oes freit and attempty

to rent him mere.

24?

that he pare agent tilling with Ashes Duan recently in.

the ffice a tig hes for being i Commenst sylie repled,.

"It's nt tie. Lam nit a Stilist and i have never

then interestel in Party intending' Es9) shenko slin is a

very intelgent gid He chide me my te able to gain her

cooperation by getting a desiatle male nest te her - she is,.

accenting to a " a bale putt

-C this mano is.

not englite.)

Ozone lix. fu Cola Xor 18, 1963

the s a fat print it fine fled it me.

him conglitil nock 10, 1962 =

the Tall / Contents an

A: Basis Bioggles Data

7:1

C...

- 7:

F Cated: Data

SECRET

15

2/

24

RETURNTO CIA

Background lise Only

Do Not Reproduce

10143-/0431

NW 64578

Docld:32271935 Page 2

---

## Page 3

6248

-SECRET

Curiculum Vetar

1911- mud , 9503

spam

11952

18953-1458

1758-1961N1218

NIv 63. 65.

Wars, suri

1905- -

7 rome

тер

Madied in Späen

smuggling actinda

atires. To Cala

reprisely I the retend Consid Cilture

ast datid

246

Agene was called is but sept: 16 h7 o amani

befuggo and almost fined fime his fit. Cler Samed was

ts entel f egone agame Who had been genen the

ragnallt I the Pandlem at the Ego 67 in Wrter had...

apparently failed muscably in fuefilling his jot. Cenfigas who

conciled the Enjo 6? fain a very very inputent event tel

Home he had " clanded" the gegent and done athing..

lagere was at the pout f henry fired when he perdiced

a eater he had utter I a gmit organization which added

for arsistancs and t had at been fredering? This

letter apprenel, "sed" are from being summarly!

fired from has post but it did not strp cenfrags fini relieving

ace to sprabilitio se Epr 67. This ren- in with

tinfigas hor made ozene a very hitt mass, ad, he wants

the yet at f Cald as son as priable its flous are to

have Cale for series denick the ind f the you (' Gai)

azene... plans to use a bad vertibine as "'cover" to git

to tapes

Ela Fario li Pog de sagpled infireten si hine

but unilable

SECRET

NW .64578

Docld:32271935 Page 3

---

## Page 4

T"?

0249

SECRI

-C/A went ar for

ntemplite. jediag: azene

iiled in dinhing bont, allmig, hime Io imboues hesnself.

and them attengting to recrnt hin.

.We lo nt huno if ozere eves pent fr Meceet ins

plauad n late 66 fu te fala ando.

wo frcther

reputs. are iinbnled,..

SECREI

• 00 .. *

Ledeee cerocoodoomopede e irio nen danade iocaceld deeelie deldipecdeoi' e

sci eacee te ereido dos couoicaomone d eninine

w.paoi oreeH

_......-

o. cis a i acinonmia ne...

irtaupdneo riinciairder lns,decmraooi cliniei ifimior dameciictrian.

-ee ma!ME aaarn!

249

NW 64578

Docld:32271935 Page 4

---

