Date : 01/07/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10394
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : XE327040E - PAGE 347

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :. DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)
TO : ASST CHIEF OF STAFF, INTELLIGENCE
TITLE : MEMORANDUM
DATE : 07/28/62
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : SLOBODA, VLADIMIR O.

MRS. SLOBODA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA FOR RELEASE
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH THE CIA HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 15 DEC 95.

assination Records Collection Act off

992 (44 USC 2107 Note) Case#:NW
E ate 0

NW 64954 Docid:34517473 Page 1


fatness Basler
7 i : Se Byilncata’
Siiitescihesbitesiatt C sleiohanian QO pop 39k e
is See CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY OF
OQ WASHINGTON 25, D. GC.
23 JUL 1962
Te: Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence :
Department of the Army ton <4 *
Attention: Chief, ae 159145

Branch, Security Division

| FROM: Deputy Director (Plans) AY

SUBJECT: Vladimir 0. SLOBODA (U)

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 7 May 1962
concerning the above subject.

2. We have not yet received thé requested replies from the
British Intelligence Service on the questions submitted for Mrs.
@ Sloboda. We are reminding the British service of our interest in
obtaining the results of their interview with Mrs. Sloboda and
you will be advised immediately upon the receipt of any information
from them on the subject.

CSCI~3/772.,758 :
cin HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAR|
RELEASE AS SANITIZE,
~ 3995 og, obits s-

BAT

NW 64954 Docld:34517473 Page 2
