# docid-32290204

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10480

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-3171-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MELLOTT, FRANK L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/17/1958

'PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS:

SGI, BKG, CRIM ACT, ASSOC, REL, EMP, B/F INT, TRA, RES,

HEALTH, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1B, 1C

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case# Nw

69262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32290204 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

CG 92-349

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following criminal informants are

currently in a position to furnish information

relative to the subject:

CG 6132-0. This informant has known

GIANCANA for several years and meets, GIANCANA

occasionally in Chicago area night clubs. Information

received by this informant comes through personal

observation of and conversation with GIANCANA as

well as conversations with GIANCANA's associates.

CG 5951-0.

This informant knows GIANCANA

by sight but has not had any personal dealings. with

GIANCANA.

Information furnished in the past was not

first-hand information but was received through

conversations with the "criminal element".

CG 6215-C. This informant alleges he

knows GIANCANA by sight, but is not an associate

OI GIANCANA.

This informant is a nephew of JOE

EPSTEIN, who has been reported as a close associate

Of GIANCANA.

PCI RODNEY JOHNSON

PCI JOYCE LANE

PCI HENDERSON L. WILLIAMS

POI ROBERT ZIEMAN

PCI IRENE TOEROSS

PCI PAUL TIMRECH

The above criminal informants and potential

criminal informants are being contacted on a regular

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 59 -

505-105480

NW 68262 Docld:32290204 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

FLM: saf

T-5

T- 6

T-7

T-8

T- 9

T-10

T-11

ROBERT ZIEMAN, who furnished

information contained here to

SA MELLOTT On March 17, 1950.

This informant frequented the

Owl Club,

a gambling casino

the summer

and has present knowledge of

the operations and operators

of this

club.

Not used.

Informant "g" of the Alcohol

Lax Unit,

Chicago, Illinois,

who furnished information to

SAC R. M. HOSTENY on April 26,

1945, and to SA DON C. SWANSON

on May 2, 1945.

CG 6215-0, contacted by SA

ROBERT I. BAKER on March, 31,

1958.

CG 6132-0, contacted by SA

WILLIAM J. MC CORMICK, February

26, March 2, and March 11, 1958.

CG 5841-C, contacted by SA

FRANCIS J. STEFANAK on

February 18, 1955.

JOYCE LANE, being developed

as a PCI, who was contacted by

SAS JOHN

C. NCONAN, Jr. and

VINCENT L. INSERRA

on April 1,

1958.

Miss

LANE is a prostitute

who advised that she has frequent

contact with the criminal elements

in Chicago, Illinois.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 61 -

395-10480

NW 68262 Docld:32290204 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349.

T-12

T-13

T- 14

DANIEL PASSARELIA,

Melrose Park,

1318 Brodaway Illinois, who

was contacted by SA HILL

on May 8, 1958. PASSARELIA

is a lifelong resident of

Melrose Park and has personal

knowledge of criminal activities

in that area.

POI PAUL TIMRECH contacted by

SAS PAUL B. FRANKFORT and JOE

C. WHEELER on May 6, 1958;

this informant has not furnished

adequate information to permit

an evaluation of his reliability.

but he claims personal knowledge

of most of the syndicate members

through close and frequent

contact with them.

F. J. SPRING, President,

Oak Park National Bank,

Oak

Park, Illinois, who was

contacted by SA FILES on

January 30, 1958.

T -15

Law 11(a)

Although

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 62-

92-3171-2505-10480

NW 68262 Docld:32290204 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

T-16

4

T-17

T-18

T-19

T-20

suspicion points toward

additional sources of

income for the taxpayer,

no proveable source can

be

found and additional time

spent on this case in all

probability would not prove

worthwhile

FRANCIS "JACK" JACKSON,

4736 South Indiana Avenue,

Chicago, Illinois, whose

identity is being concealed

at his request.

JACKSON has

furnished insufficient information

to evaluate his reliability.

Tesur CG 5633

POI HENDERSON I. WILLIAMS

contacted by SA HILL on

dates indicated.

the

Insufficientrus

Information has been furnished

by this informant to evaluate

his reliability.

WILLIAMS

is the boyfriend on an intimate

basis with the maid of DARLENE

CAIFANO.

IRENE TOEROSS, contacted on

April 9, 1958, by SA AUGUST C.

KEMPFF.

This

PCI has furnished

insufficient information to

evaluate her reliability.

This

informant claims to be close to

the criminal elements in Chicago.

NELSON A. LOCKE, 1146 Wenonah,

Oak Park, Illinois, whose identity

is being concealed at his request.

Mr. LOCKE, a responsible official

with the Civil Aeronautics

Association at Midway Airport,

Iives across the street from the

subject.

ADMINIS TRA TIVE PAGE

- 63 -

50". vor 9

NW 68262 Docld:32290204 Page 5

---

