# docid-32334048

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90110-10041

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 87-58729-71

teleased under the John F. Kennedy

ssassination Records Colection Act o

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

645FR Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

06/06/1961

PAGES:

46

SUBJECTS :

FRITZ WERNER DORIGO

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW:

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32334048 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

F1-263 (Rov.8-1-58)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPOVITING OPFICI

MIAXI

ОПРІСТОГОРІОШ

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

UNANGAN SUBJECTS (2); Armed

Robbery of Approximately

$117,200.60, Jenelry and Cash,

¡esIdenCe oL MITH and diL

VERNER' DORIGO, Hallandale, Pla.:

3/20/51

REFERENCE:

DATE

JUN : 6 1961

DANT

WILLIAN E. HEIST

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIRATIVE PERIOO

3/29/61 - 5/30/61

ITSP - MI

WPH: cmw

Report of SA WILLIAM P. HEIST at Mlam1

dated 4/25/61.

-P.

- LEADS -

G

CHICAGO:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOGUMENT. KP 5-18-98

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

1. W111 reintervien ANDREW NICHOLAS MASTRO concerning

his actvitles in the Miani area during March, 1961. W1ll

endeavor to obtain information from KASTRO concerning the

activitles of WALTER PATRICK SCHANG and MIKE SWIATEK. MASTRO

should be confrontod with information from airlines showing

that he returned to Chicago with SWIATEK.

In this connection, when SWIATEK and SCHANG were

ArPROVID

COPIES MADE:.

V- Bureau (87-587294

- chicago

(87-16639)

2

- Indianapolis

1

- New York (87-22200)

-

3

St. Louls (Info)

- M1ami

- 87-8049)

(2 - 87-14090)

DO NOT WRITI IN SPACES BELOW

87-58729-21

MEC- 37

DIa

Cole Foot nacho Repor

REIMERCIA

Notations

126 38

Agency

Roquest Reed.

Dato Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

50JUN 27

NW 64578 Docld:32334048 Page 2

STAFi

87-58729

71

---

## Page 3

MM 87-14000

The Intervlew of MisS PEARLENE WILLIAMs on

May 4, 1961, by SASWILLIAM F. HEIST and FRANK J. SMITH

was in connection with a Polygraph examination given

to her at the Mlami Office of the FBI.

By letter dated May 11, 1961, the Memphis

Office was requested to reinterview GEORGE H. TREADWELL,

JR., who is presently Living at 938 Audubon Drive,

Memphis, Tennessee, to determine if TREADWELL has any

additional information concerning the activities of

MEROLA, SCHANG and SWIATEK.

- INFORMANTS -

By communication dated Apral 25, 1961, the

Chicago Office advised that no Chicago Top Jewel. Thieves

were known to have been in Miami or out of Chicago

area during the period of March 18-20, 1961. Logical

informants familiar with jewel thieves were contacted

but could furnish no infornation concerning theft.

By communication dated April 28, 1961, the

New York office advised that all top jewel thieves of

the New York Office were accounted for during the perlod

memorandum had been disseminated to informants familiar

with criminal activities, and that this had been negative

as of April 28, 1961.

By communication dated April 21, 1961, the

Jäcksonville Office advised that confidential Informants

and potential confidential Informants as well as logical

police departments, and law enforcement agencies in the

Jacksonville Division had been alerted in this case.

By communication dated May 24, 1961, the

Tampa Office advised that contacts with

confidential

informants, and potential confidential informants of

the Tampa Division falled to produce any information

conerning instant theft.

OVER PAGE -

NW 64578 Docld:32334048 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 87-14090

on May 9, 1961, MM 722,6 advised that he had

heard nothing further of a definite nature concerning

the disposition of the jewelry taken in the Hofbrau laws,

robbery other than that GeNe, SANsoUCIe, friend of Jostel

MeROLA, had reportedly bought some of the jewelry.

MM TR-C advised that in telephone conversation

taken to chicago.

,MEROLA gave no indication as to whe may

have taken this diamond to Chicago.

those

CARSON ROOD NeW YOrk

anent audress

E.

"staying temporarily

15T Flesta Hay, Port Lauderdale,

Florida, contideAtially

advised the following and requested that

his identity as

a source of this Information be kept in the strictest

confidence.

number. Eldorado 5-6323.

ROOD advised that HEWITT is in the process of

obtaining a divorce, and since initiating this divorce,

has been 11v1n5 with PAT McGEE, who refers to herself

aS M_S. HARVEY HENITT,

He stated HEWITT is a millionalre

and recently purchased for PAT MoGER a $10, 000.00 home

at 157 Fiesta Way

WYNN LASSNER and LEONARD GAINES in New YorK ClEy prior

to becoming acquainted with HeWITT.

He stated she is

also acquainted with MAURICE "RED" POLLACK.

According to ROOD, HEWITT met LASSWER and GAINES

through his common-law wife, PAT McGEE, and was considering

backing them financially in a restaurant in the fort

Lauderdale area. In connection with this, HEWIlT game

to Plorida In his 100 foot yacht, and was contacted a

COVER PAGE ..

NW 64578 Docld:32334048 Page 4

---

