# docid-32303040

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10052

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-3RD NR 62, 4TH NR 62, STH NR 62

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DOUCE, RICHARD GORDON

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1959

PAGES:

60

SUBJECTS :

GM, PERSONAL HISTORY AND BKG, ASSOC, CRIMINAL

ACT, MAFIA, NARCOTICS, GAMBLING, B/F INT, TRA, RACK

AND SUBV, THREAT, WIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, INDEX PAGES 42-45, INC MEMO, A/T

!

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992/44 USC: 2107 Motel. Case#N 68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

"Report Form

-FD-263 (Rev, 5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

SAMUEL MANNARINO,

aka.;

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

DATE

MAY 4 1959

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/10 - 4/20/59

REPORT MADE BY

RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

aap

REFERENCES

Report, of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, Pittsburgh, 2/19/59

Report of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCHE

Pittsburgn,

4/20/59,

in the matter entitled,

"STUART SUTOR, etal, ISP;

'ITSP; FFA; NM" (Bufile 52-72398)

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., MIamI, 3/ 30/39=

in the matter entitled, "STUART SUTOR, eta.: NUP:

ITSF; FFA; NM"

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

The extended investigative period and resultant.

delay in submitting a report in this matter was brought about by

the assignment of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE to the case involving

STUART SUTOR and also the matter entitled, "UNKNOWN SUBJECT;

VIRGINIA CONLEY; JUANITA FERGUSON, MISSING PERSONS; POSSIBLE

KIDNAPPING" (PG 7-506)

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Bureau

(2-92-2918; 2- 92-2914)

• Detroit (92-372)

2

Miami

(92-143)

Philadelphia

(92-558)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2914-

MOG ILECORDED

100 1лX. 27 1959

12- 92-220; 6 92-236)

9. с. 110

To

Ba (01l0.196

52 MAY 2 8 1959

ORIGINAL COFY FILED IN

-2918.)

PROPERTY OF FBI. —This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loa

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228; 92-236

Physical Surveillances

The following Special Agents participated in the

surveillance of Frenchy's Seafood Restaurant, 5700 Penn

Avenue, Pittsburgh:

THOMAS G. FORSYTH III

RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

WALTER E. TAYLOR

The surveillances conducted at the white Horse Inn,

Byrnedale, Pa., were conducted by SA ROBERT I. OLSON on

2/11/59 and 3/12/59.

Record \Checks

• Records of the Miami, Florida, PD and Credit Bureau

of Greater Miami, were reviewed by I CLIFFORD M. WERNER.

MIKE ZERVOS

Confidential Source

MIKE ZERVOS,

who has furnished valuable information

concerning the activities of the MANNARINo organization since

the inception of the Top Hoodlum Program, sailed for Athens,

Greece, on 4/10/59, aboard the SS OLYMPUS from New York, N.Y.

ZERVOS, the acknowledged racket boss in Westmoreland County,

Pa., during the 1920's, was released from the Western State

Fenitentiary during the summer of 1952 after being a prisoner

for over 20 years on a conviction formurder. When ZERVOS.

returned to New kensington, pa., in 19b2, ne quickly re-

established himself in the MANNARINO controlled numbers

racket on a limited scale and

even though he was disliked

and mistrusted by the MANNARINO brothers, he was able to

furnish valuable data to this office concerning their operations.

Information that he furnished concerning the numbers operation

resulted in two highly successful raids conducted by the

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, following

dissemination by this office.

ZERVOS stated that he does not intend to return to

the United States and his criminal history and alien status

=C -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-228; 92-236

will preclude his re-entry into the United states through

normal channels.

It will now be necessary for the agents assigned

to the MANNARINO investigation to develop new sources of

Information who are capable of providing the caliber of

intelligence data previously furnished by ZERVOS.

MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS

Confidential Source MIKE ZERVOS on 3/13/59 stated

that after HAZIDAKIS was released from Montefiore Hospital

In November, 1958, he was in a very weakened condition and

attempted to recuperate at his home in New Kensington with -

great difficulty.

ZERVOS said that after several months

HAZIDAKIS became

alarmed over his inability to recover from

the operation and since he was obviously not responding to

treatment, he decided to return to his family in Greece.

ZERVOS said that HAZIDAKIS left for Greece around

3/10/59, probably aboard the SS OLYMPUS, saying that he might

return to sell his home and settle other business affairs

providing his health improved.

ZERVOS stated that in

his opinion, HAZIDAKIS would

undoubtedly take full advantage of his poor physical condition

to remain in Greece permanently because of his long expressed

fear of GABRIEL MANNARINO.

INFORMANIS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and T symbols were utilized in this report only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

PG I-I is MIKE ZERVOS, confidential source,

contacted by SAS RICHARD GORDON DOUCE and

THOMAS G. FORSYTH III

PO T-2 iS NORMA GRILLO, a Pittsburgh call girl,

contacted by SA NORMAN I. THOMPSON (concealed

by request)

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-228; 92-236

PO T-3 is Former PG 580-C, contacted by

SA JOHN S. PORTELLA

PC T.L IS WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent,

Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvanias

contacted by SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

PO I-5 is PG 585-0 contacted by SA ROBERI A.

VOEGE

PC I-6 IS JOSEPH MEROLA, Interviewed by

SAS GEORGE E. DAVIS; JR., and LEMAN Lo

STAFFORD, aT

the Miami Office

PO I'-P IS DR. LOUIS C. PESSOLANO Of Miami

Springs, Florida, interviewed by SA RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE prior to his appearance before

the Federal Grand Jury in Fittsburgh (by

request

FO I-8 IS MEL COLLIER, Investigator, Alcohol

and tobacco Tax Unit,

U.S.

Treasury Deparsment,

Pittsburgh, Pa. contacted by sa thomas 5.

FORSYTH ITI.

PO. I-9 15 JOHN JOSEFOV, former PCI, contacted

bY SA NORMAN I. THOMPSON

PG I-10 is TOMMY HAYES, salesman for Swift and

Company, contacted by SA DAMON W. PITCHER

PG I-I1 iS JAMES MC DOWELL, Alcohol and Tobacco

Tax Unit, Pittsburgh, contacted by SA J. EDWARD

MA DVA Y

SE To 1S MILtON sUGa, Fraud Investigation Unit,

California State Department of Employment,

contacted by SA ROBERT E. OLSON

SF T-2 IS SE 1871-C, contacted by SA RAYMOND M.

ANDRESS

REVIEWED BY F&WJFK TASK FORCE

E-

COVER PAGE

ON 114/96 DABIPW

X RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-228; 92-236

SE I-3 IS CHARLES WEATHERHOLL, LOrmer FOl and

private investigator, contacted by SA ANDRESS

PO II-L2 IS CAMILLE NAFFAH, PCI, Contacted by

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH III

PO I-13 IS NELSON DARLING, Manager, Home Telephone

Ridgeway,

contacted by SA ROBERT I. OISON

covering Byrnedale, Fa.,

MM. I-L iS MM 665-PC, contacted by SA ROBERT F. FETZNER

MM I-2 IS MM 656-C, contacted by SAS PAUL A. CAJIGAS

and ALBERT T. HEALY

PO: I-14 IS PO, 573-0 contacted by SA JOHN SO PORTELLA

PO T-15 IS OLIVER FRANCHT, POI, COntacted by

SA GENE H. STUDEBAKER

MM T-3 1S EDWARD C. WILLIAMS, PCI,

contacted

Dy SA PAUL

A. CAJICAS

MM I-4 IS PAUL A. CAJICAS, Who contacted the

Shenandoah Branch,; U.S. Post Office, Miami, Florida

FO I-16 iS T. MEAD MC LISTER, PCI, contacted by

SA BRONI S. MACYS

CI. I-I Is CI 197-S, contacted by SA ROBERT R. ROCKWELL

BA T-1 IS THOMAS M. SIMPSON, Postmaster, Hagerstown,

Md., contacted by SA: ROBERT

I. MC ENROE

BA I-2 is MrS. ADA K. GUNNELLS, Clerk, Post Office,

Hancock,

Md., contacted by SA MC ENROE

BA: I-3 1s HERMAN BENCROFF, Postmaster, Cascade,

Mad., contacged by SA MC ENROE

BA T'-4 iS WALTER MILLS,

Postmaster, Clear Spring,

Md., contacted by SA MC ENROE

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-228; 92-236

AT NEW KENSINGTON, PA. (WESTMORELAND)

1.

will contact Po 545-0 for information concerning

subjects' legitimate enterprises, criminal activities and

associates.

Company,.

Wi recontact tOMMY HaYes, salesman for swilt and

Company, and obtain additional details regarding the allegation

that the MANNARINO brothers may have an interest in the Iri

State Automatic Candy Company.

Will prepare a letterhead memo concerning MIKE

GEORGE HAZIDAKIS for dissemination to IRS.

4 .

Will Interview GEORGE NADER, proprietor of Nader's

Market, 1193 -

352 Avenue, to determine if possible the

method

he used in providing a check cashing service for the

Triangle Billlards Gambling Casino.

5.

Will Interview AGNES KNOX, waitress at Pecky

Abraham's Bar, and reported former girlfriend of GABRIEL

MANNARING, for

any information of value she can furnish concerning

his activities.

6.

Will interview ANDREW DATRES, 520 Pershing Drive,

night manager of Andy's Restaurant, for information he may

have

picked up while listening to the conversation of MANNARINO

organization members who frequent the restaurant.

Will interview NIP VURDEN, alleged pimp, who is said

to be running a house of prostitution at 1151 - 4th Avenue,

to determine the extent of his operation and possibly pay-offs

to New Kensington PD.

8.

Wind interview TOM GALLIAN, operator of the Garibaldi

Caub, to determine his connections with the

MANNARINO organization

and possible pay off's to New Kensington PD.

Will interview JAMES POWERS, 400 Robinson Street,

•Pitcairn, Pa., an employee of the Electric Department, Pitcairn,

who, according to Chief of Police, O'Hara Twp., can furnish

exact directions to the MANNARINO hunting lodge.

- I-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-228; 92-236

DEPAIUS:

A. FERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

• SAMUEL MANNAR INO

VICTOR E. CURLUCCE, son-in-Law

Reverend NICOLA FUSCO,

pastors

St. Feter's Roman.

Casholic Church, New Kensington,

Pa., on March 25,

1959,

advised that he performed the marriage of VICTOR E.

and MINNIE ANTIA MANNARINO On April 16, 1945.

CARLOCCI

Father FUSCo stated that at the time or the marriage

CARLUCCE

lived with his parents, VINCENT CARLUCCI and ROSE

CARLUCCI (nee MARELET) at 2014 Ridge Avenue, Arnolds Pa., and

the bride

Lived wish her parents, SAMUEL MANNARINO and ROSE

MANNARINO (nee CARINO), at 1001 Manor Road, New Kensington.

C. ASSOCIATES

SAMURL and GABRIZE MANNERINO

DANTET HANNA

Pa: 1-1, who ras furnished reliable information an

the past.

on February

20, 4959,

said DANIEL HANNA told him

that SAMUEL MANNARINd assured him he would not be prosecuted

in the case involving theft of weapons from the ohio National

muard Armory, Canton, On10.

theft of "

PG T-1 stated that MANNARINO

Implied to hAunA that arrangements had been made or would

be made to have the case fixed"but that it for some

unforeseen reasons HANNA was convicted, he would be paid for

every day he spent in prison.

ANDY MANGINI

The "Pittsburgh Sun Pelegraph," March 7, 1959, issue,

carried a

feature story concerning a raid by the Pittsburgh

Police Department Racket Squad led by Acting Lieutenant JOHN

• JAMES on the Sparton-American Club, 715 West Diamond street,

at 2:00 AM, March T, 1959.

=2 =

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PO 92-228; 92-236

HIghland I-1615, lIsted to RENEE LEVITT,

5826 - 5th Avenue,

Pitusburgh 22,

Pa o

Number changed to

CHurchill 2-2127 (unlisted) 1696 Monongähela

Avenue, Pittsburgh 18, Pa.

almpia 3-3419

undisted ANNA LOnE.

340 Koendler Road, Apartment 7s

Leland Park

TOM

TANNAS?

FBI #3564904

On March

24, 1959, United States District Judge

HERBERT P. SORG, United States District Court, Wessern Distries

of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, directed an order of acquittal

In the TANNAS case on the basis that the United States Government

had

failed to present sufricient evidence from which & jury could

inter, beyond

a reasonable doubt, that TANNAS wilfully intended

to defraud the United states in connection with his application

for loan through the SBA.

written opinion that he had been in error in not directing a '

he haa been

Judge song pointed out in his

verdict of acquittal when the defense motion was made at the

conclusion of the government's case in United States District

Court.

AL RINALDO, aka.2 "Chips"

PC T-5, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, was contacted on January 27, 1959 and again on

February

20, 1959, at her residence, at which time she advised

that she was present at the MANNARIND gambling establishment

at New Kensington during the late evening hours of November i4,

1958. PC I'-5 advised that on that afternoon a plane load of

rifles stolen from the Ohio National Guard Armory at Canton,

Ohio, was forced down at Morgantown, W.Va., and that the MANNARINO

brothers had already been mentioned

as having had something to

do with the transportation of these and other weapons to Cuban

rebels. Pt I-5 recalled that the bar was not too busy that night,

- 7 ∞

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PO 98-228; 92-236

but that the usual large number of patrons were filtering

into the gambling rooms.

PC I-5 said she spoke briefly

JOHN FONTANA, & permanent member of the MANNARINO organization,

and a close associate of both MIKE GENOVESE and JOHN IA ROCCA.

•Pa T-5 recalled that FONTANA told her that the place would be

closing earty and

when she asked him what was wrong, he shrugged

his shoulders and said, "Oh, just a few little problems that

we can handle."

FO I-5 said FONTANA

definitely had referred

to the gun-running because AL "CHIPS" RINALDO, a CrOUpier

and dealer in the MANNARINO gambLing set-up.

for many years

and who had taken her to the gambling establishment, wasked

out of the gambling rooms shortly after 1:00 AM and advised

because of some trouble "that will be in the newspapers" the

place was closing eary.

PO T-5 on April 7, 1959, stated that RINALDO has a

room in a house directly across the street from the Pepsi Cola

Bottling plant In the 5700 block of denore Avenue, Pictsburgh,

telephone number EM 2-2298.

D. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

SAMUEL and GABRIEL, MANNARIND

Indictments Returned By Federal Grand Jury. Pittsburgh

A Federal Grand Jury sitting at Plussburgh, Pa., on

March 20, 1959, returned a seven count indictment charging

STUART SUTOR and the following five members of the MANNARINO

organization with violations of IISP, TCP and CONSPIRACY, In

connection with the theft of weapons from the National Guard

by twin engine

NORMAN ROCHMAN, FBI #152585B

JOSEPH MEROLA, FBI #4989299

VICTOR CARLUCCI (sonan-law of SAMUEL. MANNARINO)

DANIEL HANNA

JOSEPH GIORDANO, FBI #3661902

=8

NW 68262 Docld:32303040 Page 10

---

