# docid-32176682

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10186-10055

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-116395-1214X1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: AG

TITLE:

DATE: 09/30/1963

PAGES: 22

SUBJECT:

CC, REQ, ELSUR MATERIALS, CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/03/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC 7 MEMOS, 1 LHM, 2 ADMIN PAGES, 8 OF 30 PAGES NAR

NW 65360 Docld:32176682 Page 1

---

## Page 2

The Att

Diractor,

General

- Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1. - MI. J. B. Hotis)

i - Mr. W. R. Wannall

- MI.

W. O. Cregar

1 - MI. H. W. Porter

December 19, 1975

12/22/25p2rd

MAO COMATTER

OPERATIONE WITH

AETIVITIES (8SC)

the ssc dated

urteln

тах прі

vich

al an

11lance

+ will

to the

Toes recorde.

Of this manorand

an la baing turntshed for

(2)

ST 115.

PECSI 62-16395-1214X

62-126393

7 JAN 22 1976

Ination

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

Assoc. Dir.

Dap.

AD Adm. HMP SEn eM

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst: Dir.:

(9)

Admin.

Comp. Syas.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection -...

Intell. i

•ENCLOSURE ATTACHED"

Laboratory

Plan. & Evals -

Spoc. Inv. _

Training _

K

Logal Coun

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L-

TELETYPE UNIT L

Nw 65360 Docid:32776682 Page 2

SEE NADE PAGE 2

140)

5-Line

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-925

---

## Page 3

1

1

Mr. J.

A.

Mintz

(1

- Mr. J. B. Hotis).

Mr .

W. R.. Wannall

MI.

W. 0. Cregar

- Mr. H. W. Porter

62-116395

December 19, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL. OPERATIONS

WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES (SSC)

RE :

REQUEST PERTAINING TO AUTHORIZAIION

AND PURPOSE OF ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCES

CONDUCTED BY THE FBI

Cassified by OSemBACL

Declassis on MADE (JiK)

Reference is made to the SSC letter of Novenber 21,

1975, requesting delivery of naterials pertaining to the

authorization and purpose of certain electronic surveillances

conducted by the FBI.

The SSC letter of November 21, referenced a

sunmary chart prepared by the FBI showing electronic

surveillances conducted by the FBI since 1960.,

This chart was

furnished to the SSC by letter of October 23, 1975.

This memorandun effects delivery of documents

responsive to Items 25 and 26 of the November 21 SSC letter,

and completes our response to items dealing with telephone

surveillances. Items 25 and 26 are as follows:

Item 25 - Movimiento Pro Independencia de

Puerto Rico, 1966-1967.

item 26 - Pedro Julio Baises Chapel, Diego Emili

Bordas Hernandez

#Jose Antoni

Gonzalez-Gonzalez,

Juan Mari Bras, and

Lydia Collazo Turner, 1966-1967.

1 - The Attorney General

INFORMAX LUS CAN ANA

SAASSAFIDD

ALL

REPULSE

E.1 NE2R0 SHOWN

OCKERRISE

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst, Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Iritell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y -

HWe en en

(8)

MAIL ROOM I

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 65360 Docld:32176682 Page 3

SECRE

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TOP SECRET

WASHINGTON 25, D. Co

An Reply, Picase Refer 20

Fike. la (NI) 105-83473

February 3, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY

ENERAL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, RE: JOSE ANTONIO GONZALEZ-GONZALEZ

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

ESPIONAGE - CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT. GmB 2/3/94

The subject is involved in Puerto Rican independence

activities in New York City and recent developments in a

Cuban agent network operating in Puerto Rico have indicated

This document is prepared

in response

nation: outside

your request and is not for dissemi-

your

Committee.

Its use

your Committee

and the

is limited to official proceedings by

content: may

nel

without

the

express

approval

nut

te disclosed to unauthorized person-

New York City and key Cuban agents in Puerto Rico. The subject

is closely associated with Juan Mari Bras who was the subject

of our memoranda to you dated September 30, 1963, and

January 21, 1964. Mari is the leader of the Cuban agent

network in Puerto Rico.

In order that additional information may be developed

regarding the subject's activities and contacts, it is requested

that you authorize technical coverage on his present residence

of at any address to which he may move in the future. The

subject presently resides in a fourth floor apartment at

58 West 88th Street, New York City, and is a part-time lecturer

at Queens College, Queens, New York City.

It is requested that the information regarding the

subject's involvement in the Cuban agent network be treated

in the strictest confidence since data we are receiving on the

network emanates from connunications intelligence channels

Respectfully,

2/35/94

Classried ov

, 9803200 /EN

Declassily on: DADA(K)

APPROVED

DATE

2/4/64

TOP 32

TOP SI

ghn Edgar Hoover

Director

antonatio

Loung

TO COLONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

RENGIN DS GCGOGSIRLED

SYCENE WADED SHOWN

*OTHERWISE

61n3

NW 65360 Docld:32176682 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NOP SHORTI

UNITED

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

J0F SLUNLE

WASHINGTON 25, D. Co

In Repoly, I'rase Refer to

File. la. (NI) 105-83473

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

ReLeAse Or G AFORMATION

IN INS SOGUMENT GUMB2/3/94

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY

ENERAL

February 3, 1964

RE: JOSE ANTONIO GONZALEZ-GONZALEZ

ESPIONAGE - CUBA

prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

be disclosed to unauthorized person.

The subject is involved in Puerto Rican independence

activities in New York City and recent developments in a

Cuban agent network operating in Puerto Rico have indicated

that the subject is involved in this network and is possibly

the link between the Cuban United Nations Mission in

New York City and key Cuban agents in Puerto Rico. The subject

is closely associated with Juan Mari Bras who was the subject

of our memoranda to you dated September 30, 1963, and

January 21, 1964. Mari is the leader of the Cuban agent

network in

Puerto Rico.

FBI

In order that additional information may be developed

regarding the subject's activities and contacts, it is requested.

that you authorize technical coverage on his present residence

your Committee.

and the content may

& or at any address to which he may move in the future. The

approval

subject presently resides in a fourth floor apartment at

58 West 88th Street, New York City, and is a part-time lecturer/

at Queens College, Queens, New York City.

express

It is requested that the information regarding the

This document

nation outside

your Committee

the

Tute i role on dee ate agent nato no evens on ene

network emanates from communications intelligence channels.

nel without

Respectfully,

2/35/94

Classified by 9803R0pEH

Declassify on DADA SIC)

TOP SE

Edgar Hoover

Director

65-78076-14

-92-39

У

APPROVED

DATE

2/4/64

733 201904

eluded Prom-

antona

cation

NW 65360 Docld:32176682 Page 5

---

