AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System *
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90107-10396

HQ

105-117222-255

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
. TO:

TITLE:

COMMENTS :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Document Information

FBI
WMFO
HQ

10/26/1966
1

COMMANDOS L.
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

INDEFINITE,

MEMO.

vod

146

NW 64578 Docld:32333813 Page 1

(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:Nw



I) ¢ Torronat fob MO. 10 7s .
~ & may 1968 COM . . z ‘
sy Sih rnt EH sors.

; UgJTED STATES cot ‘NMENT -
° Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-117222) . pate: O9CT26 1966
FROM: SAC, WFO (105-52201) (RUC) DECLASSIFIED BY ne
- an Ag
Cc
SUBJECT: COMANDOS L
IS - CUBA
| RA -» CUBA
i NEUTRALITY MATTERS
(co :MM)

ips! esta FE
OID MUyl3

Enclosed to the Bureau are 11 copies, to Miami
two copies and to New York and San Juan one copy each of : |
an LHM dated and captioned as above.

It is noted that GRAMATGHS, during interview,

+ declined to give the location of captioned organization's
base of operations outside the United States and flatify
Stated that the organization was receiving no help and
wanted no-help from the United States Government. He also

indicated that his superiors in the organization were cogni- ¢
zant of his contact with the FBI, Cu ce -

The enclosed LHM is classified "Confidential"
because GRAMATGZS requested that his identity not be made
known outside the United States Government circles and
also because Miami letter and LHM dated 3/29/66 indicated
that the United States Army Field Appraisal Detachment, : :
diami, Florida, had an operational interest~in TONY CUESTA ki .
and about 15 other members of Comandos L(y/it is felt: that RO
unauthorized disclosure of the info in the”LHM could be -

harmful to United States Defense interest “ ”
ee cle a LS
ee ENCLOSURE ay 8/6 7
BE (2 Dairens (Enes. 11) :
Miami (105-7054) (Zncs. 2) (RM) By it
RoOSI 1 - New York (105-59863) (Enc. 1) (Info) (RM) Cp mst |

ee
& 1 - Sam Juan (105-6323) (Ene. 1) (ing aud R
1 - WFO. See a ergata pom 6,

OIA [exsatltneaf CCH
ees Copy to: lst ke or . ota
JES: jmm ONI/OSI/ACSI :

! y (7) . by routing slip for info. “ a CAN,
B bh |
2NOV e868 zat
\ Buy US. ‘fe Bonds Regularly on ‘the Payroll eer Plan !

NW 64578 Docld:32333813 Page 2
