JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10212-10030
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-9-12-457
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, DL
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 10/14/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified 4
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/29/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :
f,
i
i
i
i
q vw 20

|| NW 68262 Docld:32293754 Page 1

4/28/201


i =
1D-36-( Rev. 12-13-56) — - ‘
Fb ine oe 3 i
* , : —

FBI

Date: 10/14/63

Transmit the following in $j
(Type in plain text or code) Hl
V AIRTEL AIR MAIL 1
(Priority or Method of Mailing) =
Pai Beda Babes patsuta nts ean gat patna ania att jes nengsntrHasateciatahay#=tataqirAcfasrdteFabeAeg abcfaisatsfansangsancinssatestasanssetsanssatsinasans™essansente==s) p EgESs resiEssHespeeytenessyatersay
TO: DIRECTOR, PBI (62-9~12)
FROM: {\ DALLAS, (94~55A~SUB)
SUBJECT: IMLNAL INTHL LIGENCE PROGRAM

EKLY SUMMARY
DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 10/7/63.
RE: HARRY REIMER URBAN
IGA
(DL_162~-143)

On 10/10/63 URBAN was found guilty in local Dallas
court by a jury on felony gambling charges and received a
three year sentence. It should be noted LT. JACK REVILL,
Intelligence Squad, Dallas PD, advised that to the best of +
his knowledge this is the most severe sentence ever handed,
down in local courts in a gambling type case.

RE: GARLAND POLLARD, aka. :
ITWI; ITAR - GAMBLING
(DL_165~-150)

On 10/7/63, DL 185-C-TE (DL 137-1387) advised that

the subject had recently set up a bookmaking operation in

a Dallas apartment house and was using telephone number

LA 8-0409. CI stated POLLARD mertisaee ace ‘rolled by

Dallas gambler WILLIAM RAY DAVIS (162-264).

_ -7-/A wy
¢3# Bureau : REC 3h CL Ve fo 5 [ :
‘1- Dallas-(162-143) allas (137-1306) :

1- Dallas (165-150) alias (165-101)
1- Dallas (162-210) ~ Dallas (165-104)

eens, kee ee

1- Dallas (165-148) 1 Dallas (162-264) . oor 16 i993 -

1- Dallas (137-1387) a aa io

j- Dallas (165-116): (ave wee, i /oe

1- Dallas (166-102) (5) Vi

a agsicll sb f -
ilies wi
Approved: Sent M Per u

_Special Agent in Charge

NW 68262 Docld:32293754 Page 2


DL 94-55A-Sub ‘ i

A check with the Dallas phone company ascertained
that the above telephone was installed 9/14/63 for a JAMES
ELLIOTT, Apartment 122 at 2901 Knight Street. Buagents
immediately checked the area, obtained the license numbers
of automobiles and ascertained that an Oldsmobile bearing
Texas license NH 8526, parked in the apartment parking lot,
was registered to the subject. A recheck of this same
area on 10/11/63, the Friday before one of the biggest
football weekends in Dallas history, again ascertained
that POLLARD was at the apartment house. Dallas has
instituted investigation of POLLARD and DAVIS to ascertain
if they are in violation of the Federal Anti-Gambling
Statute.

RE: GEORGE FREDERICK RECHENBERG, aka.
IGA
(DL_162-210)

On 10/7/63, DL 185-C-TE advised that subject
was operating as a bookmaker under telephone LA 8-0211.
CI stated that RECHENBERG would not actually take the bets
over the phone but had an associate to do so. Buagents
ascertained the phone was connected 8/26/63 in Apartment
203, at 3412 Hudnall and listed to ALFRED BLEDSOL..
Buagents checked the parking area at the apartment house,
obtained license numbers, and ascertained that a car bear-
ing Texas license NV 2625 and belonging to known Dallas
bookmaker NORVELL STANFIELD was parked at this apartment
house, Dallas will ascertain if STANFIELD and RECHENBERG
are in violation of Federal gambling statutes through
investigation.

RE: LAWRENCE PERKINS, aka.
ITWI
(DL 165-148)

Previously, DL 185-C-TE had furnished an
extensive amount of information concerning the gambling
activities of PERKINS and his associates. PERKINS special-
izes in being brought into a set up card game and through
his proficient card manipulating, he is able to win large
amounts of money from "suckers", On 10/7/63 CI furnished
information how PERKINS had recently taken a Dallas
businessman for a large amount of money and that PERKINS

ney faci

NW 68262 Docld:32293754 Page 3


6 3

DL 94-55A-Sub

was closely associated with one RICHARD MELVIN. Informant
furnished extensive pertinent background information con-
cerning. MELVIN which Buagents had been unable to obtain
during pricr investigation. Dallas is instituting an
investigation of MELVIN, a Dallas informant, to ascertain
if he is jn violation of Federal statutes and as a
companion case with captioned matter. On 10/7/63, PCI
MIKE LESCHETSKO advised that the Dallas businessman

had been taken by PERKINS for $25,000. This PCI, as
well as the CI, have both been alerted to advise Dallas
upon PERKINS' return to the Dallas area.

RE: JOHN ELI STONE, aka; ET AL
ITWI
(DL_165-116)

DL 185-C-TE had previously identified one of
STONE's "runners" as a BILL JET ROGERS. On 10/7/63,
CI furnished a description of this ROGERS, as well as
his place of empléyment. Through confidential source
JEROME. CRANE, Buagents were able to obtain more per-
tinent background information concerning ROGERS, and con-
template interviewing him concerning his knowledge concerning
STONE's activities in the near future.

CI advised that STONE, because of all the "heat"
on gambling activities in Dallas is not coming around to
his usual Mae ices! at the present time but is: using associate
ISADORE MAX MILLER.

This CI also advised that he had heard that a
man namedSHORTY MARONEY or MALONEY, a Waco, Texas, gambler,
had died about: two'‘or ‘three months previously. He further
stated that he was of.the opinion that about three months
ago Dallas hoodlum RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS (166-102)
an alleged collector for STONE, had killed somebody and
received $25,000 to $30,000 for this killing. CI stated
he. knows personally that MATTHEWS had this amount of ©
money on him at that time and it.was then that WILLIAM
RAY DAVIS, a known associate. of MATTHEWS, told CI, "I
know the guy he planted for that", meaning the money.

RE: LEONARD LEE FITZGERALD, et al
ITWI
(DL_165-101)

On 10/10/63, subject DAN BIRCH, following a

seg

NW 68262 Docld:32293754 Page 4


co
ey

DL 94-55A-Sub

trial in Rockwall, Texas, on felony charges of operating
a gambling house, was found guilty by a jury and received
a two year suspended sentence. BIRCH was the first of
six persons charged on these felony counts and it is
believed the other five will now plead guilty.

RE: CHARLES CLARENCE HILL;
JOSEPH "SOFIE" GEBRON, aka
ITWI
(DL_165-104)

On 10/7/63, DL 185-C-TE advised that GEBRON
was operating as a bookmaker for HILL and it was CI's
opinion they were accepting bets at a cleaning shop

they have recently opened on Ross Avenue (Phone TA 3-3180)..

On 10/7/63, PCI LESCHETSKO verified this stating that he
personally had placed bets with GEBRON. Dallas is
following this matter to ascertain if GEBRON and HILL
are in violation of a Federal statute.

None of the above information has been dissd-
minated during the past week by the Dallas Division ‘éx-
cept that concerning RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS, as Bureau
interests are not secured at this time and dissemination
might possibly result in compromises of both above
informants at this time. LT. JACK REVILL was furnished
information concerning MATTHEWS as obtained from DL 185-C-
TE and he stated he would attempt to ascertain the
circumstances concerning the death of MARONEY or MALONEY
at Waco, LT. REVILL has asiai that information concerning
the exact whereabouts of known bookmakers not be fur-
nished to him until such time as the Bureau does not have
any interest in the activities of these men or does not
care whether they are raided and arrested. He explained
that if. he makes a record of such information, the Vice
Squad will then receive instructions from their commander
to arrest these men at their place of operation. It is
the desire of the Dallas Office to ascertain if such
bookmakers are in violation of the Federal statutes prior
to having them arrested. It is also believed that any
arrest or activities by local authorities at this time
could possibly place the informants in jeopardy.

-4-

NW 68262 Docld:32293754 Page 5
