JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/1/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATU!

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Agency Information
HSCA
180-10117-10245
NUMBERED FILES
004062

Document Information

HSCA

11/25/1977
4

BOLDEN, ABRAHAM
USSS; STAFF
FOSTER, WILLIAM

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT.
Unclassified

Open in Full

Redact

08/14/1993.

HSCA outside contact report. Box 86.

NW 68261 Docld:32267020 Page 1

322 iad ne 2107 Note). Caset Nw



KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT 99406 &

DATE.11/25/77_ TIME

I. Identifying Information:

Name Mr. William Foster Telephone

Address “Federal Probation Office, Northern District, Ill.

Type of Contact: ._X Telephone
__ Person

Il. Summary of Contact: |

In-re: Former SS Agent Abraham Bolden DOB 1/19/35; Sdécial

Security No. vrk act 5 (s)(2) (Dis A trace of Abraham Bolden's p

record was developed from a newspaper article found in the

LBJ Library which mentioned initial incarceration in Spring-

.” field; Mo. Mr. Bolden was transferred from Springfield to

Maxwell Field Federal Prison Camp (Montgomery, Alabama) and was

placed on parole in September of 1959. Maxwell retained no

records except for an indication that at some time Bolden

Stated that he had had “a.residence in Chicago." This lead

suggested that an inquiry be made to the Federal Probation

service for the Chicago area.

Coincidentally, Mr. Foster was the probation officer who

ersonally su i i Bolden was.

(cont.)
IIt. Recommended Follow-up (if any):

NW 68261 Docld:3S62020 PHYS 2 Blblerd Al. Lawddor ai” Form #5



-2-

Foster remarked that the Bolden case was unique in his
experience because of the nondisclosure by authorities
of information that is automatically released to the
probation officer in a given case.

Specifically, in every other case which Mr. Foster
has processed, the prosecutor gave the probation officer
a "version," i.e., a recital of fact about the crime and
the circumstances surrounding it. Only in cases where an
undercover informant is under parole supervision is the
name of the informant withheld, but even then a version is
always presented despite the witholding of the name. In
Bolden's. case, the prosecutor: gave the probation officer
only the indictment. Bolden's prosecutor was named Richard
T. Sykes.

Mr. Foster's statement about Mr. Bolden's record while
under parole supervision was that Mr. Bolden violated parole
by talking to the media in order to convey his information
that the Secret Service knew about the assassination three
or four weeks before Dallas. - However, for reasons which
were not disclosed either to Mr. Foster or on the record
Mr. Bolden's parole status was not revoked. Foster recounted
that his records show that Bolden's statement was published
in the April 12, 1970 Chicago Sun-Times.

Mr. Foster-also set forth certain materials about Mr.
Bolden's prosecution and conviction’, supplying enough detail
to make clear that at least one of the witnesses upon whose
testimony the conviction was based subsequently recanted his

testimony. The recantation, however, did not enable Bolden

NW 68261 Docld:32267020 Page 3


aes

to overturn his conviction.

Mr. Foster then provided the following information

about Mr. Bolden and the name and addresses of Bolden's

relatives.

The validity of the information is not

confirmed for the period after 1972.

past employer of Mr. Bolden:

address for Bolden:

residents at that address:

Father*s address:

Mother's address:

brother:

brother:

sister:

NW 68261 Docld:32267020 Page 4

National Lead Company
1800 S. Peoria Street
Chicago, Illinois

7632 S. Sangomon
Chicago, Illinois
Phone: 488-4822

Barbara. Bolden (wife)
Alvia Bolden (daughter)
Abraham Bolden, Jr. (son)
Darren Bolden (son)

Daniel Bolden, Sr.
431 Pfeiffer Road
East St. Louis, Illinois

Ophelia Bolden
325 N. 26th Street
East St. Louis, Illinois

Daniel Bolden, Jr.
2128 Kimball Avenue
North Chicago (or Chicago)

Benjamin Bolden
(resides with father)

Cecelia Griffin
92 Sangomon Street
Chicago, Illinois

IL.


sister:

sister:

NW 68261 Doctd:32267020 Page 5

Eara Dixon
3317 Bond Street
East St. Louis, Illinois

Faye Bolden
(resides with mother)
