# docid-32297743

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58486 Date: 12-02-2022

Date

Page

05/14/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD

NUMBER

: 124-10220-10019

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-2173-4TH NR 208

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/11/76

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS : ( RESTRICTED ]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4, SECTION 10(a) 2

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/14/98

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA

COMMENTS :

NW 68486 Docld:32297743 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: FBI

RECORD

NUMBER

: 124-10220-10019

RECORD

SERIES : HQ

AGENCY

FILE NUMBER : 2-2173-4TH NR 208

June 15, 1998

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of Postponements: 5

The redactions in this document have been postponed under the provisions set forth in The John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

In the margin next to each postponement a letter or number is provided to represent the appropriate

substitute language from the list below.

Board Review Completed: 06/04/98

01 Crypt

02 Digraph

03 CIA Employee

04 Asset

05 Source

06 Name of Person

07 Pseudonym

08 Identifying Information

09 Date

10 Location

11 Country

12 CIA Installation in Africa/ Near East*

13 CIA Installation in East Asia / Pacific*

14 CIA Installation in Northern Europe*

15 CIA Installation in Western Europe*

16 CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere*

17 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Africa/ Near East*

18 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in East Asia/ Pacific*

9 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Northern Europe

O Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western Europe*

21 Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere*

* The number after the hyphen tracks of individual locations.

22 Dispatch Prefix

23 File Number

24 Operational Details

25 None

26 Scelso (The information is the true name of the

individual whose pseudonym is John Scelso.)

27 CIA Job Title

28 CIA

Name of Organizati

Social Security Numb

31 Alias Documentation

2 Official Cover (Details of Official Cove

9 See the special substitute language abov

A. Informant Name

B. Informant Identifying Information

C. Informant Symbol Number

D. Informant File Number

E. Operational Detail

F. Identifying Information Postponed to Protect the Privacy of an Individual

G. File Number

H. Classified Case Caption

. See the special substitute language on this form

NW 68486 Docld:32297743 Page 2

---

## Page 3

M102 47 3170845

RR HI SJ WF

DE MA

R

110245Z NOV 76

FM

| MIAMI (2-460) P

TO DIRECIOR ROUTINE

SAN JUAN ROUTINE

WFO (2-353) ROUTINE

BT

CORNUMONTIONS 8U0

Dep. AD dim

N39t. Dici

Adm Sore

Exe.

Fin.

Ident:

intell,

Tera! Cons.

Plani & Insy..

Ree: Mgt.

g. & T. Ser

Sper.

Inv.

Trainias

Telephone Ron.

«Director's God'y-

ONS /39UD E

265801514

ORESTES QUIZ HERNANDEZ, AKA, ET AL; ATTEMPI IO KIDNAP CUBAN

CONSUL, MERIDA, MEXICO, JULY 23, 1976; DANIEL FERRES PERWANDEZA

VICTIM. NEUTRALITY MATTERS-CUSA-MEXICÜ•

UNSUBS; SUSPECIZO BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DO-S NEAR

BARBADOS, WESI INDIES, OCTOBERLE, 1976• NEUTRALITY MATTERS -

CUBA - WEST INDIES

FEDERAL GRAND JURY ACTION IN MIAMI RE CAPTIONED MAITERS

NOV

AND OTHER NEUTRALITY MATTERS TOOK PLACE ON OCTOSER 29, 1976,

iN ADDITION,

FEDERAL GRAND JURY ACTION IS SCHEDULED FOR

2-2/13-

BUrm

SANDED

2

1976

TELETVP ED 70:

55

10-13 & Legal, Musio Ci

Fa Belien.

eNde

4375

56 DECO 21976

CONFIDENTIAL

4th NR 2.08

NW 68486 Docld:32297743 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE TWO MM (2-460)

NOVEMBER 12, 1975 AND DECEMBER 3, 1976, RE THE ABOVE.

KIN

THIS

REGARD, AUSA RO JERÜME SANFURD, MIAMI, HAS REQUESTED THAT LEGAI,

MEXICO CITY, SHOULD REQUEST MEXICAN AUTHORITIES' ASSISTANCE IN

OBTAINING THE FOLLOWING: ** (UI

81) RECORDS FROM

IN

THE NAMES OF THE

*(И)

(2) RECORDS FROM THE

FOR ANY OF THE

(3)

TO THE SUBJECIS. OW)

(4) INE STATUS OF

(5) THE NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF

*(4)

BELONGING

JFK Law 10(a)2

«(n)

(6) CONTACI

* (2)

AUSA

SANFORD ADVISED THAT HE ANTICIPATES INDICTING

DURING THE GRAND JURY SESSION UF DECEMBER 3, 1976,

COUSA

RÊVIEWED BY SAWJFK TASK FORCE

2

ON

119/98 lab

RELEASE IN FULL

EE RELEASE IN PART

NTIAL

• TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68486 Docld:32297743 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE THREE MM (2-460)

JFK Law 10(a)2

AUSA SANFORD FURTHER REQUESTED ANY INFORMATION ON

AND

ON NOVEMBER 10, 1976, MM 1337-0 ADVISED THAT RAFAEL PEREZ

DORESTE, FLNC LEADER INN MIAMI WILL BE TRAVELING IO SAN JUAN,

PUERTO RICO ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1976, TO MEET WITH FRANK

CASTRO AND DRO AURELIO ALVARO ECHEZARREIA OF CARACAS, VENEZUELA,

DR. ECHEZARRETA IS REPORTED TO BE ARRIVING IN MIAMI ON

NOVEMBER 11, 1976. AND TRAVELING TO SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICÜ UN

NOVEMBER 12, 19TS, ACCURDING TO MiN 1537-5. S(N)

THE BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO INSTRUCI LEGAI, MEXICO CITY TU

ATTEMPT TO EXPEDITIOUSLY RESPOND TU THE REQUEST OF AUSA SANFORD

• SAN JUAN AT SAN JUAN, WILL ADVISE MIAMI OF ANY INFORMATION

DEVELOPED 'RE MEETINGS UF FRANK CASTRU, MIAMI LEADER OF THE FLNG,

AND DR. ¿CHEZARRETA OF VENGZUELA.

x(2)

WILL SUBMIT TO MIAMI ORIGINAL PASSPORT APPLICATIONS OF

NW 68486 Docld:32297743 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAGE FOUR MM 62-

•GUSTAVO CASTILLO AS WELL AS FD-302 RE INVESTIGATION AT U.S.

PASSPORT OFFICE.

BI

PLE HOLD

NW 68486 Docld:32297743 Page 6

---

