JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form
: Ageney Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10195-10412
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2781-190
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/04/1961
‘PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: _ 02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

v9

42

NW 68262 Docld:32286636 Page 1


]

\ NW 68262 Docld:32286636 Page 2

TP 92-1

Miami advised by the same communication may be identical with
BENJAMIN HUSICK, FBI Number 628552, who is a book maker and
gambler in Miami Beach and runs the Recreation Center, Inc.,

540 Washington Avenue, Miami Beach, which is frequented by
gamblers in that area. “

MARCELLA PRANCE, Commerical Department, General
Telephone Company (Protect Identity), advised SA LABADIE
on 4/27/61atelephone RE 6-6973 (at subject's residence, Tampa)
for the billdaggperiod 4/11/61 had following tolls:

12/7/60 Collect from Havana 3-3513, EVARISTO GAVEIA, which
source said could be GAVILLA to SANTO TRAFFICANTE
shortly after 3:00 p.m.

3/11,14, .
23/61 To Gainesville, Fla., FR 2-5616 By
4/1/61 To Clearwater, Fla., 446-7286, Capri Restaurant -
4/2/61 To Miami PL 4-1912 about 7:10 pm 7.

EVARISTO GAVEIA or GAVILLA may be identical with
EVARISTO GARCIA who was reported by HAV-33 (protect) on 10/24/58
as one of the principal interest holders in.the Hotel Deauville
Casino, Havana; along with subject and who was identified as s
a"bolita banker" in Havana for years and as a former partner
of FREDESVINDO BOSQUE CUETO, FBI No. 420 934, in Havana-Madrid
Jai Alai Fronton. :

Gainesville, Fla., 2-5616 previously itdentified as
to RICHARD EDWARD VALDES, boyfriend of SARAH ANN TRAFFICANTE.

Miami, Fla. ,» PL 4-1912 previously identified as to ~
STEFANO RANDAZZO. a

On 4/21/61 on conducting a surveillance of 2505
Bristol Avenue, SA LABADIE noted a truck at the TRAFFICANTE
residence which had on the side thereof Suncoast Til#e, Telephone
RE 6-7577, at being noted ‘that perhaps some interior work may :
be performed at such residence. The 1961 Tampa City Directory -
lists Suncoast Tile of Tampa, Contractors, 3012 Cordelia,
operated by WILFRED RAMOS and WILFREDO RAMOS , It is here being
noted that in 1958, upon checking the home telephone tolls at
residence of JAMES COSTA LONGO, at that time residing at 2119
Beach, Tampa, telephone calls wre placed from his residence
toa WILFORD REMOS or RAMOS at Mulberry, Florida, and therefore,
no further exploration is being made cat this time.

COVER PAGE \ 2-49 CNS)


TP 92-1

INFORMANTS

Tp T-1, MARY MOTT, National Airlines, Hillsboro Hotel, requested
her identity be protected.

TP T-2 is TP 41-PC.

TP T-3, EDGAR ADAIR, Intelligence Unit, IRS, Tampa, requésted
identity be protected.

Tp T-4, WINFIELD B. ELROD, Assistant Collector, Collections
Unit, IRS, Tampa, requested identity be concealed. tt

aS
REVIEWED BY PBTUFK TASK FORGE 7
on lez
[RELEASE IN FULL :
RELEASE IN PART - .
C} TOTAL DENIAL“

Ex
COVER PAGE

Wer- \ 9A\ >

XQ

{
| NW 68262 Docld:32286636 Page 3


i

5-204 (Rev. 3-0-59) _

Copy to:

Report of:
Date:

Field Office File No.

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

- fee
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE Office: TAMPA
5/4/61
92-1 Bureau File No: 92-2781

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR, aka

ANTI=RACKETEERING

Subject has not been reported in Tampa since

4/18/61, on which date he reportedly left Tampa

for Miami, Florida. Dr. ANTHONY PERZIA, MD, Tampa,
advised subject told him he had an apartment in

Miami Beach and was spending his time there; that

his wife was in Miami Beach one week ago from 4/27/61,
where she saw subject's wife, who related that she ro
had a furnished apartment in Miami Beach. .

-Pp-
DETAILS

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA
On the Hight of April 17, 1961, subject was observed

in front of his residence, 2505 Bristol Avenue, by SAs FRANCIS

X. O'BRIEN and STEPHEN J, LABADIE. License numbers of cars

at 2505 Bristol at this pertinent time obtainable were noted

as follows: 1961 Florida license 3-8160 on a dark green Plymouth,
1961 Florida license 3-17115 on a pink Chevrolet, 1961 Florida ~
license 3-21500 on a dark Chevrolet.

On April 19, 1961, VERA VAIDEN, Auto Tag<Agency,

Hillsborough County Courthouse, advised SA LABADIE that her
records reflected the following registrations for 1961 tags:

cs
‘This document contains neither recommendations nor eonchisions of the FBI. Tt is the property of the FB[tand isd slong you ezenei it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your ageney.

i
| NW 68262 Docld:32286636 Page 4



TP 92-1

TP T-2 advised SA LABADIE on April 24, 1961, he
had ascertained subject left Tampa on April 18, 1961, and
that his mode of travel to Miami and address was not determined. i
As of April 26, 1961, this source advised he was leaving for

Mexico City.
TP T-3 advised SA LABADIE on

TP T-4 advised SA LABADIE on 4/26/61 th

Dr. ANTHONY PETER PERZIA, MD, Citizens Building,
advised SA JOHN R. BRETT on April 27, 1961, that subject had s i
been in his office about six weeks previous thereto to have H
his eyes checked, at which time subject advised him he had an
apartment in Miami Beach, and was spending hig time there.
This source stated that his wife was in Miami Beach one week
ago, where she saw Mrs. SANTO TRAFFICANTE, and Mrs. TRAFFICANTE
related to source's wife that she had anfurnished apartment in
Miami Beach. The address of subject in Miami Beach was unknown

to Dr. PERZIA.

- 3* - 3 CALS
By “hehe

| NW 68262 Docld:32286636 Page 5
