AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

11/29/99
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
leased under the John F Kennedy
Hssassination Records Collection Act off

CIA
104-10302-10024
JFK
CIA-DI-FILES

992 [44 USC 2107 Note). Caset:NwW
6536 0

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
OCco/CIA

DRAFT OF PAPER ON INTELLIGENCE RELATIONS WITH THE LBJ
WHITE HOUSE

00/00/

38-31

LBJ WHITE HOUSE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/22/98

JPK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.16:16:07:576120: ARRB REQUEST.
CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMENT

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 1


aa eb bane hldd

ROUTING —FOP-SEGRET— «:

(Security Classification)

PREPARE REPLY

‘ACTION DIRECT REPLY T

‘APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION]

COMMENT FILE RETURN

CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE CONTROL NO.

REMARKS:
copy... CO.
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.
Handle Via
Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 2

ML LL LL a ee

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Guu

RAAARAAARAVAae

~~

fY __-FOR-SECRET

“(Security Classification) — Classification)

‘i


Tot Fee .

Lhe fe dntve Erne Gqtas

For most employees of the Federal government, work
continues unchanged when a new man moves into the White House.
Employees of the Bureau of Reclamation, the Labor-Management Services

Administration, or the Commodity Exchange Authority A

i
all go about their jobs in their accustemed ways, mem though changes of

Even
administration policy can ultimately have an effect. /Zhe pattern of i

most intelligence work--collection and the production of finished intelligence

undisturbed.
for a considerable number of officials--remains mxffertmt ~ But for

those who are turning out inteVligence specifically for the President,

ute Trees over, inmedhate Per —
new Chief Executive stenaie—thelenert—of———  -

o-uidincoamietitgme, How wide-ranging will je the new President's
be.

foreign countries and in international relations? _ vw. Mo laese.
interest in Smretpmatiairetx How much. intelligence? wid prsrarbempreat—
2 Gore wil have BY

he on orders pecs
quice
and frequent servings or modest portions only as absolutely“tasuca?

mere]
Will he wantonly tacts, or facts plus interpretation and analysis? ©

ah

NW°-65360--Bocld:32401332- Page 3--- --~


Separated or homogenized? Is he willing to read a regular intelligence
document, or does he prefer to be briefed?

In each of the previous adninisttationa, OCI had establaahed
a satisfactory channel directly to the President. However, the system tr
had never carried over from one incumbent to the next, Eisenhower did not
want the personal weekly briefing from the Directar that ‘Truman had

the General
received; im/preferred to be briefed in the setting of weekly meetings

not
of the National Security Council. Kennedy did/like to use the NSC
with any regularity, Instead he found just what he wanted in the
Checklist
personal, daily intelligence iummmmk devised for him five months after
he entered office. = .t
The Checklist system worked so well with Kennedy that
OCI‘ and the Director naturally hoped to continue it with Lyndon Joknson;

especially as it became apparent that Johnson, like his predecessor,

was not going to have regular NSC meetings. Eventually OCI succeeded,

thes was
but Galyafter many months of frustration, It was only when cessed

i
NW-65360 Docld:32401332 Page 4


he had a firm hold of his adminidtration and when certain
foreign situations forced themselves upon his attention that President
Johnson discovered the usefulness of a daily current intelligence

document,

President
For a few days after the assassination of 2ekm Kennedy,

pitetirsesed
xMfGhaimtkk «OR. J. Smith took the Checklist to M& McCone at East Building

at 8:30x a.m, The Director then held a staff meeting, after which R.J.

personally E
Smith/took the Checklist to Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton in the White

The briefing of President Johnson from the Checklist however,
House. Famasboutathnee-woelnsalior—thoweinap-chenze—ol sdainintr atienipe,

was done by McCone, who saw the President daily for about three weeks

ML tiiabe~purpess.ofabrieting
after the assassination. y :

":

Although OCI had provided moré detail and background

information ix than uaual in its first intelligence books for President

an 24 Wove m berm
i here ahentl he
Johnson, McCone/passed tke word through DDI Cline that~hewouldbikento.

: see more but shorter items, (Tuo -wesks—Later-Bramtey—Smtth-wes-ettti——_

expected that topics appearing in the Checklist would be followed up

in later issues; therefore, OCI should make even negative reports.

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 5


Cline, presumably reflecting the Director's wishes, said that the
fhecklist that day should cover military activity in South Vietnam,
the fighting in Laos, ssu Soviet ICBM developments, and problems. in the Berlin

air corridors and 4» Venezuela.

Around the middle of December, xumnmef®6¥e-ol—the WHITE”
é takevoversthar
Houens Stitt. using-she-<theckttet ctried-to-pimiCapky Intelitgenve

when McCone stopped seeing the President daily, the White House staff

te Preside
tried to get “hin to read the Checklist, je wore largely unsuccessful,

Socknsixcheo estan Sheidcedndeier

although McGeorge Bundy wa® able to do # some oral “briefing, Checklist in
OC's
hand, On 16 December, Gen, Clifton told Sieckiistet dohm Heidemann, kick
"If we can't penetrate this ‘sort, of wall today or tomorrow, we'll just
have to try something else." In this clpudy atmosphere, the sun came out
. occasionally. On the 18th, Clifton said that the staff had finally managed /
to get the President to read thm "the books"-~probably two or three issues.
At Christmastime, the President went to his Texas xark
ranch and canes after Christmas had Chancellor Erhard as a visitor for
‘The report

several days, The PICh was cabled to the ranch each aay,

“NW'65360-Docld:32401332 Page 6


was limited to notes covering important developments and any information fi
that might be useful in the talks with Erhard, The President returned

to Washington on 5 January, and the next day Gen. Clifton, who had been

at the ranch, xait told Heidemann that he had been able to get the

Checklist to the President with some regularity once Erhard had gone.

on 8 Januaby, however, Clifton was having difficulties

not
again--the President had/read the intelligence document since leaving Texas,
ite,
Clifton thought there would be a*ket-up in the press of business after
' 4-the-President-fomndt time f or

Wheteowers—eviddntiyhappening-was—the:
that day's State of the Unfion speech. He

bbS-hepklist only wheat a

asked Philip Kennedy for a special report, briefly treating important
and still-current

7 prekieuxx problems that were covered in thelt books the President
hadn't > .
Gindentar read. ateorberte-eteishgth-on-the-problem-of tho Presraaiv”

in fact, that ___-
Clifton thought,it would be good to try ™

the system of giving the President a summary of significant intelligence’

twice a week,

SNES : : ered TAYE aa

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 7


OCI quickly put together an experimental President's

covering the period 4-9 January. This was taken by
Intelligence Review, Autcockt Richard Lehman, t@® Assistant for Special
= eance Review,

Projects, ‘mmkxto Gen. Cliften on 9 January, Clifton thought the
Review was the best solution to the problem of the President's intelligencer }
were
reading. He and Bundy, agreed that the President would not accept a
daily intelligence briefing. The President had instructed Clifton that
the DCI was to see him whenever he wished but that otherwise the President
relied on Bundy and Clifton to stay on top of the intelligence. Because
: with no warning word,
the President was likely to ask them/for the latest intelisgenee; the daily
. Checklist had to continua, Clifton aae

=ermht

the Checklist Periodically include a special biue-~me or green-bordered page

© suggested that y

} containing an operational report. 2/ : i

The next morning Gen. Clifton called Lehman to report that

v) Kom
a wanted,continued.

whirekeke
the White House was very pleased with the Review,/It had been Ske tried on

the President at breakfast and it had "worked like a charm." 3/ |

NW 65360 Docld:32401332° Page 8


: Seoehewery

“Because the President was not reading the Checklist every day,

ib sent a for roe i
DCI McCGone ey eye officials 2 :

oFten-sensibive te
~/comtébs-beyord the umall circle of readers in Kennedy's time--the - :

Secretaries of State and Defense, McGeorge Bundy at the White House, and

the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Therefore he obtained permission in

: ahd itienel
February to extend the dissemination to fowr-mesetop officials: in the

oad

k
State Department, two more in Defense, one on the Joint Chiefs staff, rae the

Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney-Ceneral. h/
rh. Pier, OC! bas

a ws

ai naar jeer aoe

Wide Herse ste F& al

es foal ihttange peatlocait Silane ‘i
: DCL McLere, WHS i
~Chask? - x briefingy e& the President fron time to i
tine bp The Checklist writers still took the publication to
Bromley Smith and Gen, Clifton each morning and received their comments ra
plus occasional playback from the President. When emxtxbor unusually
in the PISL

interesting items/caught his eye, Clifton would make a point of bringing

them to the President's attemtion. On 21 January, for example, he

serra 1

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 9



reacted immedikely to the "quotable Khrushchev" item and said he would
get right to the President with this. A few days later he instructed
OCI to keep the White House "up to the minute" on Cyprus developments.

"Hours will make the difference," he said.

Gen. Clifton told James Hanrahan on 28 January that

he had talked with the President about the Presfiadiss Intelligence

wag i fund
Review and Mr. Johnson had said 1t Je-just fine. He Finds 4t a very
valuable supplement to his occasional briefings from the DCI and he wanty

it continued without change.

Pattie ties ec
Jnser i oe 7 :
SF Early in 196), the President drew his aides Bill Moyers and
}

: Jack Valenti into the intelligence picture. He wanted one of them present /'
when he read the Review at breakfast and he was reported occasionally as
discussing Checklist items with them. Although the eer PICL writers

continued to meet and talk with Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton, it began to

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 10 E a



look as though Moyers and Velenti were amiatiy taking the documents to

the Presiddnt.

plans to spend a weekend i

On 25 March the President's i

[nse ei
in Texas comment

um 8 xtxtimcarnek prompted Gen. Clifton to max that Mr. Johniin read his

Pond

intelligence while whae at the ranchs hee often weend-tiewet- by ii

: $
8:15 a.m. am But it.jw hard to catch him in Washington.

The next day Clifton said that it was not necessary for the OCI representa-
tives to meet him at 9:30 a.ny tho book did not move upstairs that fast.

He me asked that the meetings take place at 10 in the future.

He

a Nietese

i id DDI

ee James C. Graham, Acting AD/gCI, took up with/Ray Cline

lah eo
the possibility of~kée inviting. Moyers to CIA headquarters for lunch

i * Ane
5 i and a briefing. Cline wanted #mexkto discuss the White House problem

akd Crehan Fic —
with McCone, but faeet“Weateu<a little memorandum on how things were going. of
OCI iggm drew up a statement for Cline making the principal points that
7 owas meeting

7 ae
‘exxuxxcee had no way of knowing whether we-were-auxxing the President's

ik
needs because wé“had no feedback from him, in contrast to the situation

OC's
under Kennedy, The reason for this was that-omw-Contacts at the White House

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 1100


lo

did
%® 1.0t deal directly with the President on intelligence matters.
OCI wondered how it could establish close links to the President's

immediate staff. &/

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 12_


watused

a ¢
Thihgs remained in en-umprediobebhd state fer the

only
next few months, with/occasional indications that OCI's presidential

Comnenhd, :
publications had hit the mark. Clifton \wenerked“in May that the Review

Ea Sanh
was the best means of reaching the President, althongh|the PICL registered

at times when Valenti was interested in an Stoms4 One day when the

7 RIGL was heavy on the side of bad news, Clifton said, "It's no wonder the
/
President doesn't want to read this stuff--it annoys you." /There were : ~

“days when the President read and initialed both the Review and the PICL.

Campa i a

From mid-year on, xix Mr. Johnson made frequent politiedt-- trips around
the country. Clifton, who was usually with him, said he had more luck
getting the President to read jis intelligence on the return flights than

on the way out, when Mr. “Johnson was reviewing his speeches.

As the election neared, Secretary of State Rusk
expressed some concern to Mcone about the security of the Checklist
and seemed to prefer that dissemination be limited to. the President,
Me Gre passe tHe wird down

i
i :
{ Secretary of Defense MeNamara and himself, The-DDi-wes-esked—te-feliowip—

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 13


i
H

NW65360 Docld:32401332 Page 14° cere iteeee ect ITs

12

ak alss conveyed his

ie
Feeling :
feist that the President should read the Checklist daily, mk or have it read to

him, and should not depend on the semi-weekly Review. 7/

& Aolei R. J. Smith responded in a memorandum of 5 November 196) +e~

heltewed?
Thea DGEhhren thea Suttk He Yet that the Agency would have a graceful

readers
way of dropping some of thx the Checklist mukxxxteerx if the publication

were to undergo a transformation in Which it would adgqutre a new name, a
new cover, and a new format. It would become President Johnson's publication,

specifically designed to meet his needs. To increase the pmxxtx chances

of its being read by the Chief Executive, it would be maktrermic produced

BAnL wert a
to conform to the President's working habits ang delivered in
fer-late afternoon, dektvery-ce-that—it—-cowid—be-pert-afirte-evenine reediney

Smith noted that the Review, which Mr. Johnson “usually reads," was

+

teed
rn for his evening perusgl. Smith also noted
the importance of finding 7a way to establish direct contact with the

Ak thue avovd 7
President so that OCI could get feedback cee hemnoniid ante write La

a vacuum, 8/



Tha ?D?2 Opens
Smith's proposal for a new publication was accepted

and was rapidly put into effect, The last Checklist was dated 30
1qe4 : :
November, and the next day the first issue. of the President's Daily Brief (PDB)
was delivered to the White House. In substance it resembled the PICL,
but it had a fresh appearance, and it max came out late in the afternoon
a the - -
instead of Ws early, mornings Jack Valenti sent this first issue back
to McGeorge Bundy saying that the President read it, liked it, and wanted
it continued. Dissemination was cut back, so that the only persons
the .
receiving the PDB outside the White House were/Secretary & and Under
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Neputy Secretany, and

one Assistant Secretary, the tpeasury Secretary, and the Chairman of It

the Joint Chiefs and Gen. Carroll. -

: : Tneplecesnf=the-samienagkly-Roviewscbheuttighiiprtsvof—this,
The semi-weekly Review was dropped, but by 16 December
Weg heewa tangy
a ac />s
the DCI ordered that the summary semtionx of the-Current Intelligence

wt with
ce ‘ Weekly Review be included im each Friday's PDB. The summary, titled

: haw
Highlights of the Week, lasted only until 26 February 19655 arontepetth
i :

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 15


Las
gts lore

aerate WoT

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 16

failed to arouse presidential interest,
In the ensuing weeks and months, OCI was naturally

watching for indications of the success or failure of the restyled

PDB writer
daily for the President. On 13 January,/Thomas Pattompdtitihondang

loi ner
noted that Bromley Smith wrote "fhe President" in the upper right oe

Copy ko. 1. Patton asked whether Smith would like OCI to type thie on,

Neocmhhdtrtth Noy said Smithy Potting it on in long-hand gave it a human

touche.

On 19 January, the format of the Brief was changed as a

result of discussions between McGeorge Bundy and Ray Cline. Bromley Smith
said he-max liked the new format end he thougt the South Vietnam item
was "exactly right." The President was not interested in the names of

generals and ministers and didn't follow such details.

page size
Further experiments in Smemak-followed a talk McCone had

f Heo |

ame nothing ceme :
with the Presidents There | even a ‘sample Er: - that the President could

put in his pocket, though the thought of having sensitive material handled

this way made Bromley Smith groan.

RASH ETE LE


In mid-February, Bromley Smith said that the it
Vietnam Zituation Report, which OCI had begun sending to the White House

daily at 8 aym., was proving to be very useful; it was going up to the
Git tleatd not Le mag ine ha he

President every morning.
nF pe se ee educeyt transacted Meir husmess

wrt Brame leg Smid de dra. pitted
Occasionally thére a certain amount of commotion in !
¢

whensthe-PDSere-werethere—
around Bromk@y Smith's bak Aan of people coming and going to
different meetings in the White House, One day Smith closed his door,
explaining that XHMNAYXXRHHEX

Bundy might be able to work this way with all the
Indians charging in all the time, but I gan't, espec-
dally since I was here till after 11 last night

oe waiting for the President to leave.

7 = one day
Smith unburdened himself /about abou

f

problems des ot ’
Aho elf and the Agency. One of then was the occasional flow of raw :
: / 7 y fe
a f oa 35
glandestine information directly to the President, who "eats up informa~ , bt
7 vs Smith recegnines Pha nbe th com nidehigence PF 7%
é mt he Ne geen at

/ . > Wien she Je ihe
/ tion" and has a "very short reattion fuse, "7 ‘Snithetelt-fiere-shomid-beta fees

(flow shonkt emt elled by fe fore /
/ "city ae somewhere who ¢ould make a/package of all} the many types of

4 : f to PDBer Joseph 0, Matthews
information, including the/operational./ At another time, he’ reiterated show

| i

short the reaction & times had become at the White House. ‘He also

!

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 17 : : i



16

TL. In poet a Sanh Dorrga,

On 24 April 1965 events tock place that resulted in
an improvement in the standing of OCI publications in the White House.

On that day an uprising maa began against the provisional goverment of the

Dominican Republic. The US fear that Communists might seize control of the

epuntry led to the prompt dispatch of Marines to Santo Domingo. *Presidenty
=-28 April--

coincidence, thak the day they landed/was also the
J onnvup-WauDsaTeSeaey a iow bento Ltagonee OY uneind

that Admiral William Raborn was sworn in as DCI, sacceeding John McCone.
Dominican
President Hohnsom wantast could hardly get enough intelligence on the Rumixax

situation, and Admiral Raborn was determined to provide the best serxice

the establishment of x
possible. fhe day after he took office, the Admiral ordered/a CIA task force

on the Vominican Kepublic under E. Drexel Godfrey, chief of OCI's Western Area,

As directed, it provided “eomplete and around-the-clock CIA intelligence sipport
Ita first task Hence day was to brief Raborn to

to the White House," / fn put eraestee readiness to deal with khm calle from the

‘ White House mamivatapckhe Periodically throughout the day and night it issued

round-up ;
Aituation reports, and when necessary, spot reports of partkoular developments,

=
All these reports were teletyped to the White House, -ead-fhey were read by the

Mr. Johnson, who was described by Bromley Smith as a pmexmmx President "who eats

NW 65360 Docid:32401332 Page 18


17

up information." GOL, wmarg ef course, continued te put cut ite regulas

Dominican
publications, It was during the DeMgvan crisis that wordm wag received that

the President's Daily Brief had taken firm root in the Whibe House. tmoax

on 21 May that
Bill Moyers. said/the President read it "avidly." 9/

Chief
The increased tempo of intelligence service to the xicckm

route
Nimo Executive prompted further consideration of the proper manomk to Avene

ae fmt OD1 fay Clove
thetle,l-retipionts- SBE-Rey-iiwemend DDCI Richard Helms \@gread thab UN

a "greased channel" through sfSoecey Bundy should be established for the PDB

and any other reports the DCI wants to be sure the President sees. 10/
on 20 May
AD/CI Jack Smith commented/that a ‘greased channel" already appeared to exist

for the PDB, 11/ .
Th WS Stale (Me Cerrse Bundy, Bromley Smith, and rte

’
Witte Heme Stheation Kron) :
} he Presdente
should be the place-of- entry for intelligence for Ym. Jekasary although informa-

Helms and Cline said o%«——
copies could be sent to Moyers and Valenti. Siupoomt ce enetenes

NW-65360 Docld:32401332 Page 19


18

hectic : 4“
The yecckizm atmosphere in the spring of 1965, with the

Dominican situation coming on top of Growinpst difficulties in Vietnam,

caused the men in the White House to ask mote of intelligence and to

react to it more sharply, Bromley Smith said the President has a “very short

¢ first from official sources and not from the press
reaction fuse." He want’ to hear/about major cevelopments,Zmmx so rapid

Se aentsn Sih

dissemination ieCesential? also warned that OCI would soon be asked to report
on every coup and to cover all present and potential tropble spots with high
Precision. He said that in the fom future, OCI's reports would not say that
the Valencia regime is shaky, but that "Valencia is going to be overthrown
by a coup on the umpteenth July by X in foonerville." Since this would be asking
the impossible in most cases, Richard fehman, OCI's Assistant for Special
Projects, went to see Bill Moyers. He explained that itcmmempussitientor OCI

bo Cont

. “wetirite 50 pages of intelligence warnings a day, thereby taking out insurance | i
against any possible contingency, but that the office did not believe thes this

would really serve the President. Lehman said OCI tried to be highly selective A

in varning of minx coups and the like, Moyers expressed understanding of mx

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 20


ly

OCL's difficulties, and the fire died dom, /2/ nis episode had

an amusing sequel about eight months later when Bromley Smith pondered
the series of army coups in the republics of West Africa, He said he didnit
think the President wanted or needed to be informed in advance of every

threatened coup. "Otherwise," he said, "you could fill the book with that

: os
oe LS rae $ ee yl |rselO
ond eyeten now seemed to be working satisfactorily. ocr”

was fairly.’ éonfident thatthe PDB was being’ read Se by the Piesident;”?
oa ot

writers_on
a

theYPDB team wettexx and’ reactions,
and/xh ,} received useful sugventions a oriticpetns/ Dohaeaad ‘om Brom. ey geftn,

sort of thing.”

a

they J
when tk de defivered the pub]ifation each day, Gene day in June 1965 soothe

le

firgt parageaph of the
Aead item in the PDB said "Acoumulating information suggests that Hanoi is i

bringing North Vietnam tq a atate of semi-mobiligation," The second paragraph

i eplaivel
} Ssedd that Hanoi's action was far short of classic mobilization for offensive

operations; khexfurm OCI max considered the move defenséve and was therefore

; x Badigh exper.
inclined tog discount the view of one Brétonwho thought a large-scale attack
¥ H t

and Gen. Clifton

would soon ba made acress the 17th parallel. President Johnson/at the time

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 21


Shree pF

The system for supplying current intelligence to iu

Johnson
President/was now working better than ak previously soutmodganimmoleinsmenx

sad, - : —
To be sure, (<Lzcee Presidenpie/,
dcockhexxsmextionethxiexxy OCI did not benefit fran the steady|playback/it

under
had enjoyed run Jon Kennedy,

On the other hand, shmoooctkerxx OCI was fairly confident that the President

was reading the PDB regularly, and the writers on the PDB team received

useful Suggestions, criticiems, and reactions--usually from Bromley smith-~

«when they delivered the publication each day.

pan

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 22 -


were at the LBJ ranch, Late in the afternoon, the PDB recdived a Phone call

from Bromley Smith, who said that Gen, Clifton had called from the ranch,
YW, hel heen shale 4 the Ane

Ti first sentence of the Vietnmamese item shnsmehaken ti Pte, sthe-wee—ahae——

Wet concerned about the whole piece. The President was out on the lake ak
and was not expected back for several hours, Clifton at first felt he should
summon the President to shore. smith te eeeeg the matter with the PDB writer,
Thomas Patton, and there was further conversation with Clifton, who decided
khatoxthe simply to add the word "but" after the first sentence and continue with

Ves a vid

the xmmmnt somewhat reassuring second sentence, The ‘cosd Tinstratat agen

o& " the potentiality of the PDB for causing excitement in the White House forthe

entourage, i i ot

i : woomeom
Foreign developments often mammt Provoked siaammbomn i

/
t he m spirited reactions from ‘huodtictte Bromley Smith, but it was not often that
‘ 2 ra fare of He
; a ee he expressed surprise mmuixtration at the ‘kind-of intelligence he was reading,
(ui

substance apart. One such occasion, however, came when the: PDB ran an item

' about dissension between Rumania and the Soviet Union,

JFK Act 5 .(g) (2) (D)

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 23


21

\ that Ceausescu and Maurer had complained to Shelepin that the USSR acts on
the international scene without consulting its allies, just as in Stalin's time,

The Rumantans cited the 1969 missile adventure in Cuba and Soviet positions
\

7
yn
p on disarmament. Shelepin agreed that more coordination was needed. Smith was

particularly interested in this item and remarked Jdedocioomeodttodaakeiboo

to PDB writer Archer C, Bush that it was "fantastic" that we could get this

kind of information.
Bromley Smith now and then modified or rewrote items when
he felt that they might confuse or unduly alarm the President. In December

1965, for example, President Jognson ordered a halt in the bombing of Xurth
: tf
Vietnam ta in the hope of getting negotiations started, A PDB item reported

that Hanoi had proadeast a tough restatement of its position, making no reference

} this would be
to the pause in air strikes, Smith mtexeteter afraid thet thmcteertsteicx

taken
siorkexprekmt as a rebuff to the President's efforts, reworked the text to

a avoid this interpretation since the
enphaizexthaixkkexbroadcast did not constitute official government. statement.

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 24


Ss 21le: ‘Lous'
xn Quite clearly, the White House staff cringed at bad news

from Vietnam. When the PDB reported in April 1966 that "the political situation
ae averred
appears to be rapidly worsening" in South Vietnamy and Speemaxt that Ky

might soon have to take drastic measures to restore authority or make major

concessions to the Buddhists, Smith remarked that the article was pessimistic,
and that i

Mexaiat he had later information, It was, of course, one of the perild of the

PDB operation that the White House sometimes had takex fresher reports from the

field, Smith handed John Heidemann cables reporting that Ky was going to

. aS
formulate a new constitution and that the State Department looked upon this aa—

hopeful. Heidemann agredd that’ OCI had written in ignorance of this information,
put added that offhand he would not be optimistic.
} 7 A few days later Smith read that "There was no real improve-

ment in the situation today..." and said "You're going to break the President's

whole
heart; he thinks things are much bdtter today." When he finished the/dis -

heartening S
extxeninx report, he tobsed the book in the air, whistled, and said, "We'll

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 25


23

have fun tonight. But that's no reason for not writing it as you see it."

smith had cause for unhappiness again when the PUB had
: :
to-repert that/Pakistan officialx felt that his country was sembetiigaiiu.

—temporerily;-drifting apart from the US and would probably establish closer

i PDB writer
relationships with the Soviet Union. Smith told/Allen Valpey that this article

was a "shecker" and that Walt Rostow would be disturbed by it. (Rostow

had replaced McGeorge Bundy ax in April 1966.) White fe

Although #% Jolm McCone had not taken up —

—inKermedy+e=time~
that the President's daily give occasional coverage to CIA activities, K€f

Admiral Raborn as DCI did adopt this practice. Bromley Smith reacted

t
1

negatively to these reports, however, apparently believing that President Johnson ,

did not Jike them, He particularly objected in 1966 $a # PDR Annex explaining ~
a asmcee dy

. +
er
} how CIA used a portable ultra-violet light device jn Vietnam to detect

*

guerrillas who wexm had recently handled weapons before mingling rrevverrbi—

with inno-eng villagers. Smirk td Oars the Arseny »
4 Ag ltese

sadueetise® m 7 PDS, oe Prog ctx rhetel be

informeD of Some CIA aedwitres, the Del rhnt&

Sevt fom 4 memeranchum, ‘

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 26 -


a : 35
thes dma RI Gmc wt DDI, EiDeerel Godfrey wes D/oel

tnt Rebark Lehman wat Dd/0Cl Brawley Pub th mee
witk therm end tt POR writers

4

ai

™
Late in July 1966 Bromley Smith said that he_had some ideas

about the PDB and would like to get together with all the writers.)| He-met~ith—

lebdorehiqy :
‘in-the Langley building on 3 August. He prefaced his

som.
remarks by saydonpxkhadoxdhexckhinkax®€% expressing his satisfaction with the way

He explained, however,
the President was being serveds Ye had no criticisms, itmenuxqpcdimoommiexmy

; anon”)
yommunry that while the President "tolerates" amaxmmymous documents, he

is much more x responsive to a personalized document. He wondered whether the

new DEI, .
Brief could be signed by Mr. Helms ) Then tkm it would become a personal link

between the President and the firector. In regard to content, Smith said the
_PDB did not have to alert the President to impending crises over which he would
have no control. Rather, Smith thought xk the PDB could be most useful
renderm

by aeerying-dtehs thet—give-w pithy Jndgnentsfn situations with which the

F President is or will be faced. Hm Smith said these judgments would be accepted;
OCI did not have to support them with argumentation or evidence, Smith
emphasized that the Brief writers had to be fully up on US policies and should

—

adequatel$
read presidential speeches, He felt the President is kept/informed of

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 27 ~


25

Vietnamese military developments by other means; the PDB should carry more

Vietnamese political and economic items. xXSmith urged that the Brief

have more coverage of
Europe and said that Panama was another subject

high on the priority list. 13/
OCI promptly set about adopting Smith's suggestions as to

: Soon
content, and Smith,commented that he ‘sad noticed the change. lb/

: >
Cha thernr™ Helme Srematmee © )

+ Baek po Alernm el iver:

: alberathinn
A major change in the PDB system occurred at the end

of February 1967. Seemingly all that was involved was that President Johmson
decided that he would rather get the Brief in the morning than in the evening.

time
However, this change in delivery/forced other changes, The President wanted

the Brief at 6:30 a.m, just before he began reading the newspapers. This meant

Hy that OCI's closing time on the book was 5 a.m. Nonetheless, the PDB had to

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 28 ~~


26

be written in full knowledge of ihm what was in the morning press.

SHOEE y
As/E. Drexel Godfreyx commented, the schedule Xput "the highest premium

on making the publication up to the minute." 15/ fe
Reb , .
Because the Se now had to be delivered to the White House
Situation Room by 6 a.m., the PDB writers mmain no longer had a member of

the President's staff up and available to receive the book and comment on it.

: having make
This meant that there was no point in/the writers maktyg the trip to the

White House. From this time on, the PDB was delivered by couriers. To make

up for the loss of the morning conversations with Bromley Smith, an OCI

staff member would visit him occasionally to check on how things were going,

and there was also communication by phone.

ae

fo He PPB
Shortly after the changeover to the newAchedulg; SS

commenting on the Presiilent's reaction;
Bromley Smith, xachiboduetibesiockiack said emphatically

that "we are much more certain now that he's reading it." He alsb made a
point he was to make several times subsequently, which was that he disapproved
oy annexes to the Brief, He was afradd that if the Brief were burdendd with

— —_—

an Annex, the President would put it aside for later reading--and then not

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 29


: 27
Smith herstm oh ep an cerellen Oe Won be Hte
Brel Fo Suenmartre Tee trrebsimy 0
"fm portend © Na Cen 6 ort the, lof

get back to it. In Brmxteytexdtx Smith's view, the PDB should be of a
It would be

length which the President could whip through quickly,

be better if annex-type reports were sent down separately, bose

Smith continued to admonish OCI writers now and then nx

jongoagexkex about the words and Phrases they employed in the PDB, He admitted

that heb it was hard to know whefe to draw the line, but he tautbomed-hhet
Sion. the-staficshould-be-carefni-about did not like "hopping mad," nor,

As a rule of thumb, he said the writers should avoid seeming frivolous or light-

hearted,

C on another occasion,did he care for a description of India as an “unwilling brides" fe

—__..

ee aapaseeeereeie

At the President's fequest, OCI on 7 September 1967 begeh
dealt

to atiach to the Brief & Special Report on North Vietnam that somtizboiesck mainly

- b with the orrbata of the tar. ve ony cépy to go outside of the Agency was
aderessed: "For Bromley Smith - Eyes Only for the President," Beginning with
the issue of 6 October, this Specter Repirt carried a new sectitn on North
Vietnamese treatment of political attitudes toward the war, expressed in state-

ments and demonstrations.

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 30



NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 31

28

In Nevember DOI Helms taiked wifh Drexel Godfrey and

Richard Lehman about the PDB, etme The Director expressed ereatfsatisfaction
4 the
with both the Brief and/Special Report, He said the latter im was "really

hitting the mark." He urged that OCI try harder to prexetx come up with items
Helms Savd,
on the personalities of men familiar to the President, whgl thinks in terms

of pebsonalities. Helms also asked that the PDB give more attention to
coming visits of worldx VIPs to Washington and to each other.

No major changes in the PDB were made during President

) wh on
Johnson's time after the introduction of the Special North Vietnanese—

epers. To allx appearances, the Brief had evolved into a document satisfactory

to the President, amd it kept serving its purpose throughout the rest of the
administration.

All OCI analysts who have worked on the PDB are familiar
in the White House mx holding
with a photograph of President Johnson sitting/with Lady Bird and/his first :
grandson. In his hand¥ is an issue of the Rresident's Daiky trict, <«hkinkame—

z
—eppesroctocbe-reamingeeimmix This homey picture epitomizep’t the position
i Occupied :
kak OCI hoped the _Brief-hedIn the White House. And perhaps it did.



29

The importance to a President of a steady flow of
first-class intelligence is self-evident. Whatever scope and depth of in-
formation-he can obtain from the public media, he still needs the intelli-
gence that comes from the utiligation of sensitive technogical means and }
clandestine operations. He is entitled to objective appraisals based on all

sources, public and governmental, In planning American positims and actions,
hog hee Epes nel pratatle: deoelopmen A OF
UE said opt souhdly based estimates 0: } wi foreign situations are—tikety—— =

+o

CIA and its predecessor, the CIG, have met these Presidential

intelligence needs. what they have furnished the Presidents has been determined

by -ne interplay between the intelligence organization and the White House.

learn what each oie

The Agency has been prewaxestxanct eager to peeicteoodakxkhe President wanted a

} and Ant rh hae Feredl ts
. in terms of subject matter, timing, format,/styley Fer—the-neet—pert;—i+——____ i

Po met tere wre me att. Lene: et

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 32° /


30 : : 1

x4 dL Derrduts erton dngs Ue oe
co 7 peso eens fia phil C64 rece gh veek

Doerr mre hae:

has.not been-foreseon_and-requastad,
Treny-ateg or y—0!

he-wustbave;-even_ if. 4
a

pra
norman here has probaly never been complete agreement between

CIA and the White House on what the President really needs to know, but

a degree
mroackkitune of mutial toleration usually prevailsx so that a President will

beoepr

pee ll things he isn't particularly interested in and CIA will xepmrk
carry on certain lynes of reporting simply out af regard for a President's
idiosyncracies.

In serving Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, and

war ele -
dJohnaon, CIA's Office of Current. Intelligence Us cerrvcroen

ere,

eee

inal!

NW 65360 Docld:32401332 Page 33 r
