# docid-32330898

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90093-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 166-1355-4

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ME

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/07/1965

2

NOFIO PECORA

ROBERT FLOYD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

- DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

19.1

NW 64578 Docld:32330898 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

ME 162-413

around the yard and the property is in his

name, although he

intends to make out a lease in another man's name priorto

beginning operations.

Informant advised that accordingly,

ORRELS left Gulfport, Miss., with WHITE at about 1:30 p.m.,

2/18/65, accompanied by "BIG ALICE KROGERS and LINDA/FELDMAN,

miss

two prostitutes from Biloxi,

Miss

and an unknown WH,

the

latter being about 5'10" or 1l" tall, stocky build. Informant

advised that they were to drive to Meridian, Miss., and ORRELS

and WHITE were to proceed on to Corinth, in

WHITE's automobile.

Informant advised that ORRELS went prepared to stay 2-3 weeks

and it was understood that the completed still would deliver

between 1,000 and 1,500 gallons of moonshine whiskey every 10

days to two weeks.

Informant advised that WHITE assured ORRELS

that he had a "solid fix" with the COP at Corinth,

Miss., as

well as the Sheriff of the County, and WHITE made

the specific

statement that he had a "fix" anywhere in the State of Mississippi

with the exception of Federal authorities.

Informant advised she was in a position to be kept

advised of this operation, adding that virtually every known

thief in the southeastern part of the U.S. now hangs out

70

at WHITE's Shanrock, rather than as previously at NOFIO/RECORARO's

"Little Governor?

" a well known'

Beach,

Fla., has a brother

who operates a tavern or gambling joint

near Corinth, Miss.

Informant advised that from what she

has been able to determine, O'NEAL's brother, name unknown,

apparently is considered tó ba a "square" bethe hoodlums.'

By communication dated 2/27/65, the Jackson Division

advised in part that a 1965 Chrysler bearing 1964 Tennessee

license AM 6308, VIN C453122211,

had been abandoned in

Lauderdale Co.,

Miss., and the license was registered to a

1965 Lincoln in the name CARL D. WHITE, Michie, Tenn.

Subsequently under date of 3/11/65,

Jackson advised in

part that CARL DOUGLAS WHITE, PCI of the Jackson Office,

on 3/19/65, admitted that on

2/23/65, he was engaged in a

chase by Meridian Police Officers.

He said he outran the

police, parked the vehicle, got out and locked it.

He

admitted he left a gun in

the vehicle and stated that he

had determined that the fine on the owner of the vehicle was

approximately $485. He sent an individual whom he did not

identify to Meridian to pay the fine and

recover the car.

COVER PAGE

G

NW 64578 Docld:32330898 Page 2

---

