| NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10159 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 7

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

|| Docld:32244101 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10070-10159

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE 01/03/77
PAGES 8
SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
SMITH, JOHANNA LYNN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261

Docld:32244101 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter OO US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES)
, D.C. 20515

° or Ballpoint Pen) Washington,

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Johanna Lynn Smith

December 1, 1978

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

be]

1 Appointment
Solary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

C1 Title Change

: Assassinations

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
T Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.
Specty Bote

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title

Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

$16,000.00

* If employee is civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives),
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below,
P| IPPror

the gross annual solary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or C) Professional.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is not in violati

relatives.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classific

eee If applicable, Level_

..Step__

ion of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b),

jon Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

NW 68261
Docld:32244101 Page 3

(Revised: August 1, 1977),



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter {_) U.S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES( (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

fl i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Johanna Lynn Smich 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number

| Type of Action

ela D Appointment
O Solary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
: |zGlsFermination (At close of business on effective date)
- Assassinations T. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above ond e

close of business__.

Specily Dove

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

2. GI Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 256 _off5th Congress.
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level________ Step______..

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110{b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Je

otlen th cit She elm ea

APPROVED: .

Office of Finance use only: 1D_
Office Code.

sed: August 1, 1977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee a

oe aee Sema

|| Nw 68261 : anal — —_
Docld:32244101 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter “U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

. ‘ ‘on this form must be initialed by the
‘or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date i 4
dohanna Lynn Saith December 1, 1977 j. |
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

O Appointment

JE Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
ol Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date) }
Pssassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending i
close of business____..____-_-__-__-_-_.---- +--+ +8 ) :

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary. Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Dbeument Clerk 315,000

* If employee is a
plus the salary re

service. annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the-annuity received by the employee +
1d from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) i
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional. \

2. EtSpecial (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res!
3. © Joint Committee. 4

(lf Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level_______. Step______..

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.
relatives.

December 1

Peo y

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and.the Joint Committees,-must- - > \

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: . ID.
Office Code._ Benefits__.___._._-._-_.___--_.
Monthly Annuity $ Payroll____-___-___----------- i
(Revised: Argun 1, 197) 4
Copy for. Initiating Office or. Committee i
i a — en ne
NW 68261 an ~ — we

Docld:32244101 Page 5


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION:.FORM-

(Please.Use: Typewriter. /US.HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes 5

A on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 ‘ authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) 2 : Effective Date
Johanna Lynn Smith efVs77 Lt
Employee Social/Security Number wa pee Type. of Action 4
; ) © Appointment
Employing Office or Committee a Salary Adjustment 4
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) 1

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) i

Position Title Gross Annual Salary 4
Document Clerk 12,000 1

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical or [7] Professional.

3. [J Joint Committee:

(If Employee of an Officer'of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.. If applicable, Level Step

| certify that this. authorization is. not in. violation: of 5: US.C 3110{b),. prohibiting the: employment of.
relatives.

{Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees. under.
+ .ployees, except those of the Committee'on Appropriations, the Committee<on the ‘badger and the Joint Committees; .must

be-approved-by the Committee on House. Administration. j \
APPROVED:.. | \
Office of Finance use only: i
Office Code. j
Monthly Annuity $__________.00 ;
|
Copy for initiating Office or Committee |

| NW 68261 - — oe
Docld:32244101 Page 6 : .


GPO: 1975 0 - 57-285,

Ned

| _» PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

i (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Johanna Lynn Smith V377
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

4 XX) Appointment

Employing Office or Committee D Solary Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Committee on Assassinations

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Document Clerk 10,900.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. FJ Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or [] Professional.

2. XJ Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 222. ___of 95th Congress.

3. (1) Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______________.| If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
‘relatives. 7

Date__

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
I ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budgét, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $__________ 00

| NW 68261
 Docld:32244101 Page 7

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee



REPRESENTATIVES 5 (Any: erasures, corrections, or changes

“=~ _.on this form must be initialed by the
°D.G:-20515 authorizing official.)

é |
PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.

(Please Use Typewriter \_- U.S. HOUSE +
or Ballpoint Pen) . Washin,

To the Clerk’ of the House of Representatives:

| hereby-authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) - - Effective Date

- Lives Sat éh wasly
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action aos
SC (1 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Gl Salary Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

A Position Title Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or (Professional.

2. £J Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.!

3. L] Joint Committee. : : Ds oo,

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is notin violation. of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment “of
relatives.

Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)
tee an i

Title=If Member, District and State)

All.appointments and-salary adjustments for employees under: the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

~~ployees;-except those of the Committee-on Appropriations;the Committeeon-the Budget, and the! Joint‘Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. .

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code ; ;

NW 68261 0 ee
Docld:32244101 Page 8

|
|
i
f
i
i



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM Pe

(Please Use Typewriter Se U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES «(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i i i this f tbe initialed by th
~ or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 duthoriing official) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House ‘of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ' Effective Date
dohanna Lynn Smith ~ VW/V1/76 , y
Employee Social Security Number . _ Type of Action

#0 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee O'Solory Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations. ( Termination (At close of business on effective date)
__ (IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) .
Position Title - Gross Annual Salary
Z
Document clerk $3,009
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
x .
1. F Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [1] Professional.
2. [F] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.1549 ___of 98 Congress.
3. [|] Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
. Position Number. If applicable, Level________ Step_______. -
+l certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5° U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. ; . 5
| Tyee or pit nome al Auhorting Of
| 2 2 on Assas
|
| All appointments and salary adjustments for-employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
i ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
| be approved by the Committee on House Administration. , e
| :
| . . APPROVED:.____.-- _
ministration
__| Office of Finance use only: .

Office Code.

, Copy for Initiating Office or Committee’

|| NW 68261
‘| Docld:32244101 Page 9



NW 68261

C O
WY
MEMORANDUM
TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification: |
|

fether nephew brother-in-law. \
mother niece sister-in-law \
son husband stepfather . \
“daughter wife stepmother. — *
“ , > brother father-inlaw stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister |
uncle son-in-law half-brother | pony
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |

first cousin
All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related Z to

I am related by the following relationship

Hoon Hele

Signature of ployee ate

Docld:32244101 Page 10
