# docid-32326704

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90056-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: + 183-737-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SF

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1976

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09:22.2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32326704 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

FEUCKAL DUREAU UF INUES GATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 1 0-1976

TELETYPE

MJE

•Assoc.

Dir. -

Dep.-A:D.- Adm

Dep.-A.D.-1nv.-.

Asst. Dir:77

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin: &. Pers:

Gen. Inv

Ident.

Inspaction

Intell

Laboratary

Legal C it!

Plan. & Eval

Rec. M*at.

Spec. Iny.

Training.

Telephoric

Ran.

Direr

SF NB 433

NB 011 SF COD

4:50 PM URGENT JUNE 1U, 1975.

TO:

DIRECTOR,. FBI

FROM:

AN FRANCISCO (183-114)(P)

SALVATORE AMARENA, AKAS ET ALS RICO; 00: SAN FRANCISCO:

RE SAN FRANCISCO TELETYPE TO THE BUREAU MAY 26, 1976,

BUREAU TELETYPE TO SAN FRANCISCO MAY 37, IST6, SAN FRANCISCO

cry.

TELCAL TO THE BUREAU JUNE 1U, 1975 AND BUREAU TELCAL IO

SAN FRANCISCO JUNE 1U,. 1970.

VIA REFERENCED TELETYPE,

SAN FRANCISCO FURNISHED THE

BUREAU BACKGROUND INFORMATION RE THE CURRENT CRIMINAL

ACTIVITIZS OF AMARENA AND OIYER SUBJECIS AS FURNISHED INIS

TJFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D).

OFFICE BY

AN EMPLOYEE. UF AMARENA.

AND CORROBORATED BY SAN FRANCISCO

POSTER DEPARTUENT (SERDS

INTELLIGENCE UNIT.

INFORMATION DEVELO LEAT DAE RES

737.

SUBJECTS, ALL NOTORIOUS WEST COAST ORGANIZED CRIME FIGURES

ARE INVOLVED IN ITSP, ECI AND HOBBS AÇI VIOLATIONS.

THISS JUN 1Z 1976

MATTER WAS ORIGINALLY REFERRED TO THIS OFFICE BY THOMAS

KOTOSKE, SAN FRANCISCO SIRIKE FORCE (SESE> WHO HAS INDICATED

HE IS EXTREMELY INTERESTED IN PURSUING IT UNDER REGU STATUTES

NW 68262 Docld:32326704 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 183-114

PAGE TWO

DURING RECENT CONTACTS WITH

SHE HAD ADVISED

SHE IS FREQUENTLY A PARTY TO CONVERSATIONS WHEREIN AMARENA,

ALADENA "JIMNY THE WEASEL" FRATIANO AND OTHER SUBJECTS

DISCUSS THEIR CRIMINAL ACIIVITIES AND ARRANGE METINGS WITH

ONE ANOTHER IN, FURTHERANCE OF THEIR ACTIVITIES.

INDICATES THESE DISCUSSIONS TO WHICH HE IS A PARTY DECOR

AT AMARENA'S PLACE OF BUSINESS ( SAL'S ESPRESSO CAFFE, SAN

• FRANCISCO AND AT

APARIHETTI 39 FAIR OAXS, APT.

210.

SAN FRANCISCO.

HAS ADVISED SHE WILL COOPERATE IN THIS

INVESTIGATION TO THE EXTENT OF ALLOWING THIS OFFICE TO

INSTALL EQUIPMENT IN HER APARTMENZ TO RECORD HER CONVERSATIONS

WITH AMARENA, FRATIANNO AND OTHER SUBJEOTS.

HAS

AGREED TO TESTIFY.

• DURING RECENT CONTACTS WITH KOTOSKE AMD SESE ATTORNEY

JOHN EMERSON, BOTH AGREE THAT

CONVERSATIONS WITH

SUBJECTS SHOULD BE RECORDED TO PRESERVE THEN IN VIEW OF

THEIR OBVIOUS EVIDENTIARY VALUE. ON JUNE 14, 1976, EMERSON:

ADVISED THAT ME HAD REVIEVED THE MATTER AND FEELS ENTRAPMENT

PRESENTS NO PROBLEM.

NW 68262 Docld:32326704 Page 3

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

---

## Page 4

SF 183-114

PAGE THREE

VIA SAN FRANCISCO TELCALL, SAN FRANCISCO. REQUESTED

EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF THE BUREAU BE GRANTED TO RECORD

CONVERSATIONS

MAY HAVE WITH SUBJECTS AT HER SAN

FRANCISCO APARTMENT.

THE BUREAU ADVISED BY RETURN TELCALL

THAT EMERGENCY AUTHORITY COULD NOT SE GRANTED IN THIS CAS

BECAUSE THERE VERE NO COMPELLING CIRCUMSTANCES, (I.E

IMMEDIATE DANGER TO A VICTIM, FOR WHICH BUREAU EMERGENCY

AUTHORITY WAS DESIGNED.

IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING THE BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO

OBTAIN 3U-DAY DEPARTMENTAL APPROVAL FOR INSTALLATION OF

RECORDING EQUIPHENT IN

APARIMENI, 39 FAIR OAKS

API. 204, SAN FRANCISCO, TO RECORD HER CONVERSATIONS WITH

SUBJECIS SALVATORE AMARENAS ALADENA FRATIANNO AND OTHERS.

END.

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

NW 68262 Docld:32326704 Page 4

---

