O O

Date : 11/04/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

BocumENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10001-10168 :

DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AC678001R - PAGES 1420-1431 & 1436-1446

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

USAF - OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR. COL

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT

10/24/69

23

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

REPORT OF INVESTIGAFION - CUSTOMS VIOLATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

03/08/95

COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY USAF

COORDINATION WITH USAF HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 13 MAY 96. CLOSING
STATEMENT ATTACHED WITH POSTPONEMENTS SECTION (B) 3.



‘alien Saini ele te ll i eis keel beeen es OL Rod ede eee ie ie Beene Oks eee ed ebb aenen nh eS DERE Rhone k eh eebEEL ened eb eee Tek ee deEe ceed ieee ede kde eee

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE CF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION
TEFORT MADE OY

JOSEFH A. CICCONE, SA

PERIOD

1 - 9 October 1969

Tne
PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK :
Lt Col, FR 35859, SSANr 513-10-4236

PENDING OSI District 7 OST District 7 0718-1
einer a 77
CUSTOHS VIOLATION DoT 24 1969

REFERENCE

ROL, OSL District 45, 17 October 1969

SYNOPSIS

Permission ‘to interview WERBELL granted by IRS. Review. of air and surface
shipment records, Eglin AFB, FL, failed to disclose any information pertinent
to this investigation. WERBELL interviewed by IRS. During interview WERBELL
ativised that firearms shipped to him by SUBJECT in April 1969 were obtained
by him (WERBELL) in Vietnam and registered during amnesty period; however,

no authorization was obtained to import these firearms, WERBELL stated that
majority of firearms currently being held at Eglin AFB were sent at WERBELL's
request by ARPA and authorized by PATTERSON, who thought firearms were for

AF museum purposes, WERDELL asserted seized firearms were sent by hin to
Vietnam after receiving State Department approval and wore to be returned to
SIONICS by Air Force. No authorization for this action was obtained by WERBELL,
WERBELL advised that firearms which were not sent by him to Vietnam, and which
were seized at Eglin AFB, were sent to SUBJECT for use in Air Force museums and
that, to WERBELL's Imowledge, Forms 6 were not filed on any of the seized fire-

armse
SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)
r Fie STAN =
feececues This is a RBA ARR under military nee
Condr, Eglin AFB, FL 2| Given laddifonal diavemination except 25
(Action, (w/atcn} authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is i
classified see also. AFR 205-1. Reviewed BY AFOS ‘
asclosur
Dir OSI (w/atch) 2 amore : rer Pb wil 3B
In Accordal
ATFC(IRS) Atlanta, GA 1 ARCA, 199 95
(Info) (w/o atch)
OSI District 6 (w/atchs) 2
File (w/atch) 2 Alpe pe PPS
OSE FOR, G PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK 15 EXHAUSTED. PO. 1965—750.092

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 2



0718-1
DETAILS

1. On 1 October 196, Investigator WILLIAM CG. GOODHAN Alcohol, Tobacco and Firee
ame Control Division, IRS, Pensacola, FL, was interviewed by SA WILLIAM D. DIXON.
GOODMAN advised that as of that date, he had not received any additional information
concerning the matter under investigation. GOODMAN was requested to determine if
IRS would object to an interview of MITCHELL L. WERBELL III by OST. GOODMAN advised
that he would query his higher headquarters regarding the request, and subsequently,
GOODMAN advised that he had spoken to his supervisor in the Atlanta office and that
his agency had no objection to an interview of WERBELL, Vice-President and Director
of Research and Development of Sionics. “JFK Act § (@)(2)\(0)
2. On 8 Oct 6 Mr. SHELLEY F. REEVES, GS-9, SSAN hipment Planner,
3201st Trans Sqe, EAFB, FL, advised that it was possible for a shipment to arrive
at Eglin APB without any paperwork, such as a Government Bill of lading (GBL);
however, if such shipment arrived by military air, it should be listed cn the
manifest of the alroraft involved. REEVES added that the Air Transportation Section
is. required to.keep copies of aircraft manifests for one year.

: JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)
3. Ong Oct 69 EUGENE D. LAWRENCE, NSgt, FR Mxector of Alr Trans-
portation, 320let Trans Sq, EAFE, FL, made ava e e writer copies of all

mil aizy shipment manifests for the months of Nay, June and July 1969, Re=
view yf these manifests disclosed no information pertinent to thie investigation.
\ ty On 9 Oct 69, NAOMI J. KING, GS-5, Freight Rate Assistant, 3201st Trans Sq,
\ EAFB, FL, made available to the writer her log of all shipments received from
‘ Sharleston, SC, from Jan 69 through Jul 69. Review of all GBL’s concerning these
ehipments failed to disclose any information pertinent to this investigation.

5. On 9 Oct 69, WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN, Assistant Regional Commissioner, Alcohol,
Tobscco andFirearns Tax Division, Internal Revenue Service, Southeast Region,
Atlonta, GA, advised by letter that UERBELL had been interviewed by agents of his
office on.16 Sep 69. GRIFFIN advised in summary as follows:

WERBELL stated the 11 Title II firearms shipped by SUBJECT to SIOHICS on or
about 11 April 1969 were obtained by UERBELL in Vietnam and registered during
the amnesty period. SIONICS did not apply for or receive authorigation to import
‘these firearms, The Title II firearms received at Eglin AFB, FL during June 1969
were sent at WERBELL's request by ARPA. Col PATTERSON authorized the shipments
after WERBELL had told PATTERSON that the firearms were for AF museum purposes.
WERBELL reviewed the list of firearms currently being held by OSI at Bglin AFB,
FL, and advised that all the sound suppressors, except the one marked HELE 4A,
‘and the Winchester Model 52, Cal .22 rifle, SN 69494B, were the property of
! SIONICS and were taken or sent to Vietnam by him after approval of the shipment
‘by the State Department. According to WERBELL, the Air Force agreed to send the
. | weapons to Vietnam and return same to SIONICS; however, he could not produce
written authorization for this action. VWEHBELL seid the remainder of the fire-
ams were to be sent to SUBJECT for the purpose of Air Force museum displays.
viewed By AF Ost
oe Het Public Disclosure
142) In Accordance balin)
\ 7
TFKARCA, 1 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 3



o7nl6-1
DETAILS (Cont'd)

VWERBELL related that Forms 6 were not filed on any of the firearms either by hin
or to his knowledge by anyone else. WEHBELL concluded that prior to the passing
of the Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedures used for exporting and importing
of the fixearms was the acceptable method with the Statement.

A copy of the letter summarized, with inclosures, ie attached to this report of
investigation.

ATTACHHENTS 1

1. Reproduced copy of letter addressed to Col WAYLAND from UILLIAN N. GREIFSIN,
Assistant Hey ty Gommissionsr, Southeast Region, IRS, US Treasury Department,
dated 7 Oct 69, with inclosures (Letter report of Special Investigator CHARLES EB.
STANFILL, Atlante, GA, dated 22 Sep 69, with Report of Interview of MITCHELL L.
VERBELL IYT).

2. ROI, OSI District 7, 29 Jul 69
3. GOL, OSI District 51, 2 Sep &
4, ROT, OSI District 7, 2% Sep 69
5. ROI, OSI District 50, 9 Oct 69
6, ROI, OSI Metrict 5, 14 Oct &
7. ROL, OSI District 45, 17 Oct &

FOR COMMANDER, EGLIN AYB, 71
FOR DIR OST

Copy of Attachment 1

FOR OSI District 6

Copy of Attachments 1 through 7.
FOR FILE

Copy of Attachment 1

‘PENDING
1422 Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14.AUG 95
3 IEEE:

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 4



ai Se attti Address any reply to: P.O. Box 926, Atlanta, Ga. 30301

: : “ US Treasur Department

Regional Commissioner
: : Internal Revenue Service
ae _ Southeast Region

Date; CT 1969 In reply reter to:
i) oT OL appears _
oe oa p Colonel Robert H. Wayland, Jr., USAF
Boal Department of the Air Force
OSI District 7 (HQ USAF)
oe Patrick Air Force Base, Florida 32925
.' Dear Colonel Wayland: : U]

This refers to your letter of September 26, 1969 ‘transmitting OSL Report ©." a
., o£ Investigation by Special Agent Grover CG. Ayers, Jr. concerning Lt coaute
. Col Paul Arnold Marriott. : : unis)

“ We até attaching for your information a report submitted by Special
Investigator Charles E. Stanfill concerning this investigation.:. Further
eports will be, forwarded when received. i ie

‘Your cooperation is appreciated.
a : ect

“Sincerely yours,

, eb

Vitam N.. Griffl 7
» Assistant Regional Commissioner
: (Aleohol, Tobacco and Firearms)’

Hist i

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 5


-

Septeuber 22, 1969 .

Chief Spectal Investigator ciestest : - a
Atlanta, Georgia :

Specinl Investigator Charles FE. Stanfill
Atlanta, Georgia

Gas Le Xo 69-112 = Flas S. 1, 1176(P) .

Thie report relates to an inventigation conducted at the requert of

Chief Special Inventigator, Jacksonville, Floridas Tha Office of :
Special Investigations, Eglin Air Force Bose, Florida, in conjunction

with Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division, Pensacola, Plorida, is

currently conducting an investigat{on, regarding the alleged illegal
importation of certain Title II firearus by Lt. Col. Paul A. Marriott.

On September 16, 1969, Special Investigator in Charge Arbie R. Odom, Ire

and I interviewed Mitchell L. VerBall III, ot hie residence {in Powler
Springs, Georgia. In answer to questions osked by Florida, w obtaiued’

the following information: (1) The shipment of Firearms shipped by ~
Lt. Col. Marriott on or about April 11, 1969, to Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia, |
contained 11 Title If firearma. Thene weapons were obtained by Mr.

“erBell in Vietnam and regtstered ducing the amnesty period. Stonice

did not apply for or receive authorization to import these firearms.

(2) Tha additional boxen of Title IL firearms received at Eglin Air .

Force Rasa during June 1969, were sent at the request 6f Mr. WerBell

by ARPA, and Col. Patterson authorized the ahipmente after Mr. WerBell

told him thay were for Air Force museum Purponas. Mr. WerBell wag

shown a list of firearms contained in the two boxer currently being

held by the OSI at Eglin Air Force Baca and asked to identify any :
delonging to Siontes. to stated All the mound suppressors except the fae
one worked HELE 4A, and the Winchester Mocal 52, caliber .22 rifle,

* serial number 694948, were Property of Sionics and were taken or rant

to Vigtnom by him. He stoted these were taken over on approval of the
State Department, and that tha Air Force had ogreed to send then to
Vietnam and return them to Sionicat however, he has no written author=
ization. He stated the remainder of the firearms were given to hia by
authorized persona, and were to be given to the Air Porce to put in
museuases

Before Lt. Col, Morrlott left Viatnam, Mr. VerBell told hin he vould
attempt to obtein captured eneny weapons which he would esnd to Lt. Cols
Marriott for the purpose ef museun aleplays.
i . ; : Reviewed By AFOSI
i yada, “For Public Disclosure
atsrinehetith : In Accordance
JFKARCA, 1 7
14 AUG 95

Te ane ee at ee a ie

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 6


Lt. Col. Marrfott told Mr. WerBell he thought the muneum would be grateful
for them. Hre Werllall stated ha did not file any Pormn 6 on any of the
firearms and had no knowledge of anyona else filing theme. :

“" Sfoniea fs in the business of daveloping and maufacturing silencers for
sale to United Statas Military Unite and Unitad Gtates Allies. Although
thera are apparant violotiona of Title II of The Gun Control Act of 1965,
it appeara from tolking to Mr. WarBoll that on the part of Sfonice, they
ware tnintentionale Mr. thrBell atated that prior to tha panaing of the
Gun Control Act of 1968, tha procedure usod in exporting and importing
the firearus wae the acceptable mathod with the State Dapartnent.

Attachments: 18 ete vee

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 7


Gas Le Yo 69-112 = Fla. SX 1176(P)

REPORT OF INTERVIEW
—_—

With Mitchall L. WerBell IIT, on Baptembear
. 16, 1969, af 2:30 pe. ae, at hie residence
at RFDY1, Powdor Springs, Gaorgia, by
Spaefol Investigators Charlee EB. Stanfill
and Arbie Re Odom, Jre :
This interview was conducted tn the Precence of Siontca Preaident Fred
N. Brow and Socretary-Treasurer Jo Florence, It vas conducted in tha
basemont of Mr. WorDoll's residance, which ts used a laboratory for
research and development for Sionics. Mr. WerBall is Vice-President
and Director of Research and Developmant of Sionics. Stonics currently ©
hold Faderal Firearms License Number 58-3742, which expires March 31,
1970, as a manufacturer of firearms other than destructive devicas, and
License Number 58-6156 which expires Moy 18, 1970, as on {mporter of
firearms other than destructive davicen. Stonies {@ olso holder of
Spoaial Occupational Tax Stamp Return Numbér 158611 169 85398, an a

2
Class 1 Manufocturor (Fivaacma), and Raturn Number 1258611 169 85399, =
#8 a Class 1 Importer (Firearas), both tsaued for the period beginning a2
July 1, 1969. Siontes vas alao holder of a Class 1 Manufacturer Tax gs
Stamp for the previous year, hotaver, they did not hold an Inportera es

Tax Stamp. According to officials of Stonics, they were a registered —
importer under the Munittons and Control Act, registered with the
State Department. Mr WerHall stated ao followas

Me. WorBoll said he wont to Vintnam in September of 1968 for the purpose

of deronstrating “Sound Supprassore" manufactured by Sionies. Mo stated

this trip was authorized by Mre Stanford of the State Department,

Munftions Control, Washingt, De C., who also authorized him to take

and send weapons and sound suppressors for demonstrations, however, he

hos nothing in writing from them. He atated he took soma of theno weapons

with him and sent the reat through the Air Forea to Vietnam tn care of

Col. Fagen. Mr. WerBell stated that {n tha course of hfs business and

travels, he was able to acquire 12 captured eneny weapons from the dete

of hin arrival through about November of 1968. Mo said those weapons

were given to him by Genaral Dong of the South’ Vietnamoce Army and by

other authorized sources. Ha stated ha ront dederiptiona and nertal nunbers

of tha firearms to Sfoniea in Atlanta, Georgia, with {instructions to

reginter thea, and then asked Lt. Col. Marriot! to ship them to the

United States for him. te said he didn’t think there was anything vreng

with this procedure because of the military involvemant, and that be

didn't make application for importation cf the fireares for the cane

Faason. .
; ' - . Reviewed By AFOSI

k a ‘For Public Disclosure

ca 1426 7 In Accordance With
aaa RR Terra ceea aerated tat IFRARCA, 1992 RNA
sere Cieerdiee . 14 AUG95

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 8


-2-

Me. WerBell said he told Lt. Cole Marriott he could pick out any of the
weapons he wanted for tho’ wureum, and that he could take any that he
had picked from the shipment when it arrived at Eglin Afr Force Davo.
Me. Kornell stated he wanted the firearms for reecarch pucporen, except
for the Chinere Rockat Launcher, which he wanted for company dfeplay
purporen.e Ha stated soma of tha fighting units of Tholland are being,
furnished with captured enemy teapons, ‘and that officials of Thatland
had exprosred an intorant in Sound Suppressors for samo. Mre VWerBelt
shovad us an AR=7 which had a Sionics Sound Suppressor attoched. Mre
Werfell etated before Lt. Cole Marriott returned to the United States,
he advined him that ha vould attempt. to obtain other captured weapons
which he would give to Lt. Col. Marriott for the purpose of displaying
in a mune, and that Lt. Cole Marriott told him he thought the cuseum
would be grateful for thane We said he was hopeful at the time that
arrangements could ba made to tronsfer any of the weapons not used by
the muscum to Sionica, but he caulid not recall ££ this had been discussed
with Lt. Col. Marrlott.

Mc. Warhell ntated he collected numerous captured enowy weapons during -
the next few month, and during that time he sent them in tvo caces to
Belin Air Foree Bana in cara of Lt. Col. Marriott. Tae stated ha sent
thasa shipments through ARPA, and that*Col. Pattarson authorized the
shipments after terBell told hia they wera for Air Force museum purporete
Mr. ‘orBell again stated ha thought there was nothing wrong with this
procedure at the time because of the military involvement, and for that
renson did not make application for importation of the firearms. Mure
HorDell wag nhown a list of firearmo currently under seizure by the OSI,
and ask to identify any belonging to Sfonics. Ue atated weapons listed
were the onas sent by him to LE. Col. Marriott and that all tha listed
nolso suppressors belongad to Stontea with the exception of tha one
marked RELE 4A, which £s one he picked up that has been shot out, manu-
foctured by a competitor. fe aleo stated the .22 caliber ‘Winchester M-52,
eerial numbar 694948, with Scope, sorial number 31411, belonged to Sloniese
Ya stated the nofse supprassora were manufactured by Sfonice and either
taken or sent to Vietnam by him. Hoe stated he could not explain why one
had no serial number without exanining it, however, soma of the earlier
models had the serial number on a front part which may have bean removed.
Ha stated the Winchantar rifla was also either taken or sent to Vietnam
by him. Mr. WerBoll atated as for as ha was concerned, all the other fire-
arms were tha property of the United States Air Force, although he had
hoped any that weren't used by the Air Force would be transferred to
Stoniese Mre WerBell further etated ha left aany firearms and suppressors
7 ‘Thationd, which are in the custody of Major Stevens, S6th Group, Special
CRS e . feted , 7

, {

Reviewed By AFOSI
; we For Public Disclosure

: . ae 7 In Accordance Wi
fer Setstec ee ] 4a/ JFKARCA, 1992

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Doctd:34530443 Page 9



-3-

Ha stated he was walting inetructions from Alcohol, Tobacco and Pirearms
Division before attempting to hava them imported. - He oteates most of tha,
firoacms wore token to Vietnam by him, however, soma are wapons that he _
acquired there. (See attached list).

Mr. WerBell stated on his return to the United States he mode an inventory
of the firearma received from Eglin Afr Force Basa and found thot he had
made several errore when copying the serial numbers from tha firearms,

and thus some of the firearms had been registered on Form 4467's with
wrong oarfal numbers. (Sea attached list). Mre WerBell stated the errors
.were tiada by him, and thoy were made because of tha condition of the
nuabars and the difficulty in reading thom. Mr. WerBell said he had not
wotified tha National Office of the errors, howsver, he would notify

thems now and ask instructionss

, , Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure

Seer Pn teoretacrteasafi corer itieerye cee ne Aric ERECT TE acd
ec ” \ JEKARCA, |
‘ ; i 7 14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 10


| 7
| 7
:
opined that, DoBE 3
I : i : Reviewed By AFOST :
| For Public buineerte
; ‘In Accordance W'
JFKARCA, i

uSis GNLY

N
IW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 11


|

# to unknown) K was intre
1 V. Patterson, the former Doputy
" Patiexgon otated' that Mr. WerBoll.
and the purpose. of visit was
esearsh. and Deve!

OBGR. Day

snded ona

yhonwed Mr.
y wore Llow

erbell produced a s
ad by the Amart
Lo: 7 ak

specified tvavel by U.S.
4 and Li ame and autanatic

Rosa B. Yo
rcbionsa with

otified Mr
thal cons
ont, dni
meng bo the vendor
Hariatta, Geor;

ra to
fore, “bo. return the s

Transportat .
Reviewed By AFOSL

! “For Public Disclosure

| 4 : 0 In Accordance Wit

JEKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 12


nent Laboratory, iz
d:, Ress B. Young.)

r6 Manager, »
p thistbox 3

£ Willian R. Thompson, Senior i
Subject: Shipment of B
Lin AVB., dtd 14 dune 1969, Sig
received by me upon return from the U.S."

in the above statement wera typed fr the
SX District |7, available to proper authority upon request.
the above, HANGERT furnished a reproduced copy of the abeve de
SMSGL. WELLI AK Ry ‘ct: MPSON, which is quoted vorbatin

a

16 June 1969

{ j
ARDY,
i ”
i
SUBIECP: Shipment of Box Gontajning : :
: Aedenaaeral iii “Reviewed By AFOSI
Laboratory, Helin A ; 56, ‘For Public Disclosure
: I “Jn Accordance Wit
CA, 1992:

14. AUG 95).

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 13


Fi UNITED Si, 25 ATR FORCE
THE INSPRETOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY SA

THILe

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col. 513 10 4326FR

: LAWRENCE K. HARPER is
Eglin AFB, FL PERIOD STATUS
12.Nov 1969 RUC
OFFICE OF ORIGIN] REPORT MADE AT TriTE NOT
os bisr 7 fost bist “yg 07D18-1

CHARACTER
CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

REFERENCE

ROI, OSI District 51, 29 Oct 1969

DETAILS:
On 12 November 1969, KARL D, ACKERMAN (former Counselor for Administration,
United States Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand), 99 Victoria Drive, Atherton, California,
was interviewed by SA ROBERT J. NOVACK and the writer, and related substantially as
follows:

"LB NOY 1938

ACKERMAN had several conversations with Colonel WALTER ADAMS concerning the
practical problems of getting weapons, belonging to a MITCHELL L, WERBELL, into
Thailand from the Republic of Vietnam in order that WERBELL could put on a fire power
demonstration for the King of Thailand's birthday, At all times during these conversa-
tions, ACKERMAN assumed the weapons were WERBELL's wares, and that he had
brought them from the United States with him. With this in mind, ACKERMAN stated
that he instructed Mr. GERALD T. CARTA to annotate WERBELL's travel orders with a
Bangkok United States Embassy Funding Citation number. ACKERMAN said the citation
numbers were in a block of numbers belonging to the Embassy, and because he did not
feel he had the authority to issue WERBELL any other type of number, he issued him an
Embassy number. When ACKERMAN was asked if he knew PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT, he
said the name was vaguely familiar but could not recall anything further.. When
ACKERMAN was asked if he knew EARLENE DOBBS, he stated that he did not, to the best
of his knowledge. ACKERMAN stated that his knowledge of WERBELL came solely from
ADAMS and other stories he heard around the Embassy of the fire power demonstration
to be given for the King. ACKERMAN stated he had no personal knowledge of WERBELL.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION
OSI Dist 7 4

Comadr, Elgin AFB, FL-

Action ~ 2

cept as authorized by AFR 124-4." If thes
report is classified see also AFR 205-1.

OSI DIST

HE COMMANDER freee aec eee
; Vy b zi Reviewed By AFOSI
: Lt Col, USAF For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With,
{___ JFKARCA, 1992
Peers BUGI93.

FORM
OSI vec ss 6b PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK 15 ExHAUSTED KT

MD nf 18056
‘

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 14



?

“ DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, Fleer
WASHINGTON, D.C. :

REPLY TO

BNor APISIGA (07D18-1) 20 OCT i969

suwect! Paul Arnold Marriott, Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK, Lt Col,
513-10-L236FR, Eglin AFB, FL :

vo: Industrial Security Clearance Review Division (Mr. W. J. Scanlon)
| ' Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Administration)

i Reference is made to the Directorate letter of 6 October 1969. Attached
for your information is a_pending report of investigation which reflects
the results of further investigation by OSI.

1 Atch
> = ; a OSI ROI, DO 50, 07D18-1,
T. L. FREE, Colonel USAF dtd 9 Oat 69
Deputy Director for Operations
Directorate of Special Investigations a

The Inspector General

7 “TAZT . or Public Disclosure

‘Accordance sh
va ARCA, wi

i
H a
) “Ny ye Reviewed By ‘AFOST. i

| Underwrite Your Country’s Might - Buy U.S. Savings Bonds

Seemed

| ossenssssenseasnsenssssnsonsneesssstnnanssnssssstanostnereHeseaseesneeet

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 15


A
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION
REPORT WADE BY SA

JEROME J. CASTELUCIO wt
PERIOD STATUS

20-24 September 1969 RUG
OFFICE OF Te MADE AT

a c

are

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, 513 10 4236FR
Eglin AFB, FL

FILE NO.
O7D1L8-1
DATE

9 October 1969

ost vist fost ost 5g

CHARACTER
CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

REFERENCE
ROI, OSI District 51, 2 Sep 69

SYNOPSIS

Information re: WERBELL, as contained in files of OSI District 50, obtained
and set forth. GARTA advised WERBELL, during Jan 69, requested his assistance
in shipping various captured enemy automatic weapons and official equipment
from Saigon to Bangkok. WERBELL was traveling on a U. S. Invitational Travel
Order, without funding citation, authorizing space available travel only from
Bangkok to Saigon and return. CARTA stated WERBELL told him he had collected
the weapons while in northern sectors of RVN, with U. S. Army Airborne and
Special Forces units. Packaging and preparation of Transportation Control and
Movement Documents (TCMD) were prepared by U.S, Embassy, Saigon, CARTA did
not know why one TCOMD reflected antique arms when contents were known to be
automatic weapons. CARTA received authorization and funding citation number
for WERBELL's shipment from the Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy,
Bangkok. This was only shipment processed by CARTA for WERBELL. CARTA did
not know of or process any shipments for SUBJECT and/or SIONICS, INC.

SPECIAL

HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION
| DO 7 (Comér, Eglin AFB- 4
}  Action-2)

This is a privileged document under mili-
tary law. This report may not be repro-
duced or given additional dissemination ex-
cept as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this
report is classified see also AFR 205-1.

|

3] QS1 DIST.

REPRO

DO 51 2

’ Reviewed By AFOSI
- For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With, |
JFKARCA, 1992 Bue

__14 AUG 95,

Dep Dir OSI (PACAF)

Z LA
ERT B. PRITCHARD, Lt Col,
Deputy Commander

FORM

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 16

on


O7D18-1
DETAILS

1. On 20 September 1969, Mr. GERALD T. CARTA, Staff Operations Officer, U.S.
Embassy, Saigon, Republic of Vietnam (RVN), was interviewed with the assistance of
SA RONALD A. CUNDIFF and provided the following information:

During early January 1969, a Mr. MITCHELL WERBELL, a senior officer in an
American firm (NFI), came to his office requesting assistance in shipping one or
two cartons of captured automatic weapons to Bangkok, Thailand. WERBELL stated
that he was a weapons expert and was in the RVN on invitation from the U.S. Govern-
ment to demonstrate some of his new weapon accessory inventions to the military
services of the RVN and Thailand. WERBELL indicated that he had Just spent the
last 2-4 weeks in various northern sectors of the RVN, with U.S, Army Airborne and
Special Forces units. During this period WERBELL had collected various captured
enemy automatic weapons. He advised that he needed these weapons for examination,
in that he was in the process of designing a new automatic weapon that would far
surpass the capabilities of the best foreign made automatic weapon. WERBELL pro-
duced an Invitational Travel Order, issued by the USAF Air Attache, Bangkok,
Thailand, This travel order was approved by the Counselor for Administration (CFA),
U.S. Embassy, | Bangkok, Thailand. This travel order authorized WERBELL to travel,
on a space available basis , from Thailand to the RVN and return. The travel order
did not reflect a funding citation, which is necessary to ship any large items
aboard a military aircraft. WERBELL stated that he had attempted to ship these
weapons aboard military aircraft stationed at Tan Son Nhut AB (TSNAB), RVN, how-
ever, because his orders did not reflect the necessary funding citation, he was
sent to the U.S. Embassy. WERBELL indicated he was going to use these captured
weapons in a fire power demonstration, to be held for the King of Thailand on his
birthday, which was on the following Saturday. WERBELL stated he was a personal
friend of the King and Queen of Thailand and numbered among his friends many high
ranking military and civilian officials of the Thai government. CARTA placed a
long distance call to the CFA, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. The CFA advised
that WERBELL was expected in Thailand by the King for a weapon demonstration, to
be held on the King's birthday. The CFA was informed that WERBELL wanted to ship
one, or two heavy cartons to Thailand. The CFA then gave CARTA the Bangkok U.S.
Embassy funding citation, with instructions to have same added to WERBELL's
travel orders. He then asked the CFA: "Do you know what he wants to ship?" and
the CFA replied: "Yes, it's okay", After this conversation the weapons were
packed, along with some items of official equipment, as identified by WERBELL.
Transportation Control and Movement Documents were executed and signed by CARTA.
The U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand, funding citation was reflected on these
documents. At no time did CARTA examine the contents of the boxes. CARTA iden-
tified the Transportation Control and Movement Documents reflected as attachments
1 and 3, ROI, DO7, 2 Sep 69, as the ones executed and signed by him. CARTA could
provide no explanation as to why oné of the Transportation Control and Movement
Documents (Atch 1) reflected the contents as antique arms, CARTA stated that he
knew of no other shipments of firearms that had been processed by WERBELL. He
concluded that he does not know SUBJECT, nor has he ever processed any shipments
under SUBJECT's name or for SIONICS, INC.

Reviewed By AFOSI

2g | For Public Disclosure

14259 | In Accordance With &
-JFKARCA, 1992
_i AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 17



. Shipped. He was told by FAGAN to bring the items in an open box, which would be

O7DL8-1

2, On 24 September 1969, a review by SA CUNDIFF of case file 50D24G-133, of
which WERBELL is the SUBJECT, revealed the following information:

WERBELL was in the RVN in an unofficial status, with the concurrence of ASD,
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, to demonstrate a noise and flash suppressor assembly for
the M-16 rifle, as well as other firearms equipment. He possessed no security
clearance. He was to demonstrate his equipment only in the RVN and was then to
return to the U.S. Upon his arrival in the RVN, he was given a Military Assistance
Command Vietnam (MACV) Identification and Privilege Card (MACV Form 6) for use
while in country. The application for this card was filled out by Col WILLIAM M.
FAGAN, Commander, Det 6, ASD, TSNAB, RVN. The card, to expire Mar 69, was only to
reflect WERBELL was to have BX privileges, and no grade or rank was reflected
intentionally. The card that was finally issued reflected equivalent rank of GS-16
and gave WERBELL postal, BX, commissary and check privileges for a period of one
year, to Sep 69. The application form was adjusted to show this and someone other
than FAGAN placed FAGAN's initials in the appropriate blocks to obtain these privi-
leges.

SUBJECT was the individual who met WERBELL upon his arrival in country, and
who took care of getting his weapons registefed in accordance with MAGV directives.
SUBJECT also set up the demonstrations WERBELL was to give.

At the conclusion of the demonstrations, rather than return to the U.S., i
WERBELL traveled to Bangkok and Korea, utilizing his MACV ID card and dropping
names of alleged acquaintances of high reputation in order to show his equipment
in those countries. FAGAN obtained the MACV ID card from WERBELL in Bangkok on
8 May 69.

3. On 24 September 1969, a review by SA CUNDIFF of 50D24G-0/86 revealed the fol-
lowing information concerning WERBELL:

FAGAN advised that in Jan 69, WERBELL stated he had captured weapons he
wanted to ship back. FAGAN told him he would help through legitimate channels if
the weapons were for a government agency; otherwise, he would ship back only the
equipment WERBELL brought over. FAGAN heard no more from WERBELL until early
Feb 69, when WERBELL stated he was ready to leave and would bring the items to be

sealed at the aerial port.

FAGAN was unable to locate WERBELL after that meeting until 8 May 69, when he
located WERBELL in Bangkok to retrieve the MACV ID card. WERBELL requested FAGAN
to ship some gear from Saudi, Arabia, to the U.S. FAGAN again replied he would
ship back only the original equipment from TSNAB.

The files contained no further information pertinent to the present investiga- i
tion.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN

| \ Reviewed By AFOST
i For Public Disclosure
1 : : : | In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992 He
14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 18


REPLY TO.
ATTN OF:

supJecT:

To:

\ Ney
Hl DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCZ
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON, D.C.

APISIGA (07D18-1) 6 OCT 1969

Paul Arnold Marriott, Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Colonel, 513-10-4236FR, Eglin AFB, FL

Industrial Security Clearance Review Division (Mr. W.J. Scanlon)
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Administration)

1. Reference is made to the Directorate letter of 20 August 1969, con-
cerning Subject, and to your letter of 22 August 1969, regarding Mitchell L.
Werbell III. Attached for your information is a pending report of investi-
gation reflecting further inquiries by OSI.

2. You may note that on 5 August 1969, a representative of the Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Service (IRS),
advised that his agency had initiated an investigation concerning the in-
volvement of Sionics, Inc., in this matter. The IRS representative indi-
eated too, that they proposed to interview Mr. Werbell in the near future
and would furnish OSI with the results, including copies of any statements
provided. On 2 October 1969, OSI was advised by IRS that they had not as
yet interviewed Mr. Werbell, but in view of the USAF interest in resolving
this matter expeditiously, would not now interpose any objection to OSI
interviewing Werbell.

3. You will be furnished the results of this interview as soon as it is
completed together with any other pertinent information made available by
IRS or obtained by OSI.

FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF

1 Atch
ROI, DO 7, O7D18-1,

e ctaetaaeinTaaaa dtd 3 Sep 69, w/atch

FREE, Colonel USAF

Deputy Director for Operations

Directorate of Special Investigations

The Inspector General

SE SISNET)

+ Reviewed By AFOST |
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With x
_JFKARCA, 1992 YE
ae 14 AUG 93:

Underwrite Your Country's Might - Buy U.S. Savings Bonds

eee,

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 19



rine

“\GRITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Hale Borns § Jun 15, 0X

OFFICE CF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY

Lt Col, 513-120-4236 #8
Belin A®B, FL

WILLIAM D. DIKOR, SA ep
| ome "OSE District 7 MNOSE Distetet 7 | O71
Ce Ser UT ES
“ROT, 007, 29 dui 69

SYNOPSIS,

SUBJECT furnished previeusly prepared, notariged statement, om 20
duly 1969, in which he stated substantially game as in his
verbal statenant of 17 duly 1969. Representative of Alcohol,
Tobsees ami Firearms Divisicn, IRS, advised his agenqy had initiated
investigation concerning the invelvenent of SICNICS, Inc., in this
matter, Gammander, Aly Force Amnanivnt, Laboratory, APS, FL
advieed that they have-no ccntgact with SIOWOS nor dees SUBJECT Rave
euthority to aidp weapona to SICHICS. ARNOLD and COQLEY advised that
weapons are shipped by serie] nusbor and denied advising SUBJECT to
list weapons as “uisedllancous equipment", SRAURCIN informed SUBJECT
af proper procedure for shipaent of weapons. DAVIS advised that
pen contract. with SIONICS or any requirezent to send weapons
to SIGICS.

SPECIAL Oro REQUIEED (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION

FILE STAMP
iy | This isa Ebeory sie under military
2 | law. This report may not be reproduced or

Gonsir.

(hetdon) eee
Dir OST (w/atch)
ATEC (IRS) Atlanta,

(Info) (w/ateb)

US Customs, Hobile
Cinfo) (u/atch)

Pile (1z/ateh)

OSE ism, 6

el
PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL. STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.

given additional dissemination except as
authorized by AFR: 124-4, If this report is
classified see also AFR 205-1,

APPROVED

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

' In Accordance we

ae ca
AUG 95,

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 20


O7D1E-1
DETAILS

1. On 28 duly 1969, SUBJECT Voluntarily appeared at OSI Detachment. 710.
Eglin AFB, FL and released a previeusly prepared signed, notarized,
undated statement pertinent portions cf which are set forth as follows:

J Hy assigmont is Assistant to the Commander of the Air Porce Arma~
/ "ent Laboratory. I am responsible for many staff duties, the following
: / of which bear directly upon sy official actions whieh were taken in
. { — eexinecticn with the aatter being investigated. (These, of course, are
o mown by Colonel Martin), Although SIONICS never hae made a sale
ye te the Mr Foree Armament Laboratory, or been awarded a contract by
the lab, they are working on developments related to laboratory require-
nents and continue te try te come up with attractive proposals. They
| are weleume to keep working te mest. our requiresents aa are cther ecn-
tractors who naturally try to make sales.
|

\

gy

‘5

ay Ag APSC mmitions spectalist 4n SHA for the second tour, during
1969, I was directed officially te work with SIGNICS in the combat
thester. The APSO Liaison detachmont wad requested by its chain-of-
command supervisor, Celonel Louis Schaffer, AFSC Assistant for Limited
War, Hq ASD (ASI), WPAPB, to afford the SIOHICS representative every
assistance to include assisting hin te get materiale da and out of the
country (Vietnas), to intrcduce him to units in the theater to whom he

| gould demonstrate SIGHICS items developsd to use in cosbat, to advise
and assist him in obtaining quarters and transportation, and in short,
to assist him in every way to perform higiwicsien, The recipient of
thi direction wap Colonel William Pagan, Commander of the APS
Idaison Detachment and ay boss in SEA,

fhe facts in this paragraph are set down only because of the nature

of the questions raised by the O81. First, why did wo telephone SIONICS? te have d
We have already mentioned the. base defense proposal SIOHICS wishes to
eubsiit and for which they made: advance queries. In addition to this
subject, SIONICS called frequentiy to find out. i? we had received
evaluations throtgh the SEA laisen office of the iteus placed throwh-
out the combat theater as previously explained. Hany of these vere
still outstanding when I left Vietnam. We checked to see if any had
been received after each call and called back, Sometimes we were out
when calle’ and wore requested to-call back. Also, of course, there
were calls about the shipmonts. Second, what are our personal relations
with STONES? APSO. Liaison offices in SEA and for the Armament Lab as

- herein explained. My actions have been directed and authorised or

no special or unusual favors have been dene for SIGNICS. IT have had |
only one setlal contact with Hr. Brown, A few woeks ago, the Browns

1463 °° | Tpevewed By arost

For Public Disclosure

; In ‘Accordance Wi
| TFKARCA, BHR
4 AUS

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 21


O7OIE-1

DETAILS Contd

(of SIONICS) tock us +o an Atlanta Braves-Los Angeles Dodgers base—

ball gate and the next evening we invited them te dimer as our guest.
at the Merrictt Hotel. We spent more on them than they had on us, We
have many contracter friends and acquaintances and are very careful to
go "Dutch" in social affairs. This is the standard and the require~
nent for military people who have dealings with contractors. Hegula~
tions prohibit us from accepting any form ef gratuity so we make certain
we go more than half way in meeting social obligations, We have no
especial relaticns or connections with SIONICS or any other contractor,
nor has SIONICS ever suggested or hinted we have any. Further SIONICS
has never demonstrated or hinted at any tendency te evade laws, licenses
or other requireznts.

The original of the above statement is belng retained in the files
of USI District 7 and will be avatlable to proper authority upon request.
A farpednoed copy of the statenent 43 appented to this report ae an

2, Qi 5 August 1969, Mr. ROBERT CORBIB, Investigator, Alcohol, Tcbacce
and Firsares Cuntrol Divielon, Internal Revenue Service, Pensacola, Fh,
telephonically advised that his agency had initiated an investigation
concerning, the involvement of SIONICS, Ine in this matter but that
results of their inquiry were not yet available. CORBIN advised that
bbe agency would furnish the results of their investigation upon com
pletion,

3. Gn 20 August 1969, William GOODMAN, Srecial Investigator, Alechol,
Tobacco. and Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Services,
Pensacole, Florida advised Special Agent Grover €. Ayere, dr. that.
dnavestigation being conducted by bis service is continuing; however, he
has nob received any additional information from the Atlanta, Ga Office.

He. advised that upon reesipt of additional information it would damediately

be made availabie te O81.

4. On 22 August 1969, ABNER 8. MARTIN, Colonel, SSAN: 251-30-147ePR,
Gewmander, Air Force Armament. Laboratory (AFATL), Eglin AFB, FL-was
interviewed at his duty station and advised substantially as follows:
APATL developes eli types of weapons for the USAF, bub very few small
arag are required, therefore there is little activity in the small

arms area. At the present APATL is developing o survival weapon which
is in the email arms area, SUBJECT, ao a representative of AFATL while
on TDY in SEA could send captured eneuy veapons of any type or quantity
to APATL for test. purpeses, based on his judgment, if he followed
established procedures which would inelude nobifying APATL that such
weapons wore being esnt back, Colomel MARTIN stated that te the best
of his imowledge APATL recelved no indication or notification that any
such weapons were being sent to APATL. Colonel MARTIN further stated
that the enemy weapons in this case could conceivably be used either

3 1444

By AFOSI

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 22

t
|

he | |

Te Aniaos

For Public Disclosure

Reviewed
In Accordance Wi

| JFKARCA, 1992

L



O7B1IB-1
DETAILS Gantd

in testing or a8 museum ploces. Colonel BARTIN aleo said that he

felt it unusual that SUBIECT would have such frequent. telephonic con-
veraaticas with STGSICS e government expense. Colonel MARTIN further
stated that the APATL has no contrast with SIONICS, nor has the USAF
ever had any contract with SICHICS and SUBJECT had no authority to ehip
any weapons to SIONICS for any purpose.

3. On 27 August 1969, CLARENCE H. COOIBY, GS-9, SSAN 505-32-774h,
Logistics Officer, AFATL (ATDA-Loz), was reinterviewsd at Eglin A¥B,
PL, and advised that when weapone are slipped by his office, they are
always listed by serial nusber, and he at no tima told SUBJECT that
he should list a ehipnent of weapons as “wiscellansous equipment”.
COOLEY further stated that to the besb of his mowledge no. shipuents
ave made from APATL to a non-contractor.

6. On 27 August 1969, PAUL (NHI) ARNOLD, Sogt, PR4S9-38~5452, logistics
Offica, APATL, Eglin AFR, FL, was reinterviewed at his duty station and
advised that at no time did ho advise SUBJECT that a shipment of weapons
could be listed as “miscellaneous equipwent", ARNOLD further stated
that. weapons are always shipped by serial number, in accerdance with
the SOP which so specifies.

%. On 27 August 1969, EUCLIDE P. BEAUBOIN, GS-12, SSNs O87—14-39175
Staff Transportation Office, J20ist Transportation Squadron, Belin AFB,
Fly advised at his duty station that donatime aubsequent to 15 July
1969, SUBJECT telephoned him ab his office ad inquired as to the pro~
per procedures for shipping material to Air Force Contractors; and if
@ Bonorandum signed by a “responsible officer" would serve as justiti-
cation far the shipment, BEAUDOIN stated that he advised SUBJECT that
any property being sent at government expense to. a contractor had to be
contractorally authoriged pricr to being shipped and to have been
cleared through the base contracting office. BEAUIOIN stated thet he
ferther advised SUBJECT that the justification should contain the state=
mant that the ites being shipped was governsent property and that
receipt of the material being sent ty the contractor was advantageous
to the governzont. -

& On 27 Ausust 1949, DALE H. DAVIS, 68-15, SSAlis 23212-3609, Technical.
Director of Guns and Rockets, AFATL, Eglin AFB, PL was interviewed at
his duty station and advised that pricr to Celonel PINKSTON's rotirencrt
he had worked in the same facility with his. DAVIS further advised that
as early as April or May 1967, hie facility had been axperinenting with
noise supressors manufactured by SIOHICS, which wore furnished to APATL

\ at no expenso to the governusnt for evaluation. DAVIS also stated that

"Reviewed By AFOST
© For Public Disclosure

h 1445 cin ae :
JFKAR 1992 i
CAN NOG95;

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 23


O7DIB=1
DETATIS Genta

APATL bas no contract with SIGICS ner does he know af any plans to
enter into a contract with STONICS, due te the fact that the Air
Poree has no need at this tims for notae sugresgors, DAVIS added
that in his opinion AFATL would need not more than one<of each type of
oe ee
to send any weapons to SIONICS.

APTACHSERT

ie rabee eS e O akgnede notartoed, undsted statemant furniahed
by SUBJECT on 28 duly 1969.

FOR ALL, DISTRIBUIEES
Copy of attachoent
yaa 6
ain

"Reviewed By AFOSI

| For Public Disclosure |
3 nd fa Accordance Wi

' JFKARCA, 1992 ue

y 14 Al

NW 64954 Docld:34530443 Page 24

