JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TQ:

TITLE:

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

5/7/2015

FBI
124-10197-10054
HQ
92-3171-1555

Document Information
FBI
RUTLAND, MARSHALL E.
DIRECTOR, FBI
01/27/1965
40

SGI, ASSOC, ACT, FGJ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 10(a)2

Redact

03/27/1998

INDEFINITE

ssi

ssa
992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw
0

vol

140

NW 68262 Docld:32287278 Page 1


l)
Co

CG 92-349.

eau In severd? instances this information has “also been
placed, in greated détail, in the enclosed letterhead memo-
randum. 4

: “Although it “is noted that the period of this report
is in excess. of sixty: days, it is pointed out that this case
receives daily and expeditious. handling and the Bureau and :
all interested offices are kept apprised of GIANCANA's activities
through daily summary teletypes.4 nie eee
: AvsA DAVID SCHIPPERS, Chief, Special Investigation Unit,
United Sta Attorney's office, is currently preparing. to
issue ‘sul as ‘to GIANCANA and. 4 number of his’ associates
- in ‘connection with a Grand. Jury investigation “into organized
crime inthe Chicago area. “Present plans call for GIANCANA
‘to. be called in approximately two.weeks time for his initial
appearance: before noted jury.  SCHIPPERS has advised that he
intends to wtilize the Immunity sections of both the Narcotics
and Federa} Communications Commission Statues pertaining to
immunization of. witnesses before Grand Juries. WU

INFORMANTS .

Identity of Source Contacting Agent

CG T-1 SA JOHN R. BASSETT

PCI LENORE SCOTT ai

CG T-2° .SA MARSHALL E, RUTLAND

CG 6792-PC :

CG TH3°--

CG 6576-Ce X
CG T-4° --, . SA WILLIAM F, ROEMER H
CG 6498 - C-TE

CG. T-5 : : SA JOSEPH G. SHEA
CG 6379-C :

-C- i
COVER PAGE |

NW 68262 Docld:32287278 Page 2


CG 92-349 -

CG T=6
CG 6538-C*

CG T=7

SA’ DONALD A RIVERS

NY 4008-C-TE" - New York. Div,

T=8-
319-C*

T=9
T-10-
6036=C
T-11.

88.88 A&

8

6576 -C*

SA. JAMES GERBLICK

AUSA ALBERT GAYNOR
SDNY (Deemed Advisable)

CG” pele

Former ce 6575=C-TE

cG 1-13

PCI DAVE COVILL

CG Te: 14

SA EUGENE. SATHER
SA JOHN R. BASSETT

SA JOHN W. ROBERTS

PCI. MARK DI LEONARDI

COVER PAGE
———

i
Ie
i

NW 68262 Docld:32287278

Page 3
