| NW 68261

A ennedy Assassination
att ecords Collection Act of

‘992 [44 USC 2107 Note}.

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10313
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| Docld:32243279 Page 1


| NW 68261

* Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10313

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE

12/13/76
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BONIFER, SHERL L.

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION U
RESTRICTIONS 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

PRINTED FORM

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box. #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Docld:32243279 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM we =
(Please Use Typewriter é U.S. HOUSE OF~ REPRESENTATIVES « +.(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

iT ft
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 72 amet orm mst te initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) “ Effective Date

“Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

(1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee - D Salary Adjustment

¥2) Termination (At close of business on effective date) H

Select Coma’ 48S ations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title - Gross Annual Salary
S@cCPes iy 5 |
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below) ‘ |
1. [) Standing Committee: Stoff-[] Clerical or [] Professional, : °

2. &) Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Re: _Congress.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

{If Employee. of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__4_-_-_--_____. If applicable, Level

Step. |

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. Snob), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. . , °

H

i

i

|

|

H

|

i

i

1

All appointments and salary adjustments:for employees under the House Classification Act and.for Committee em-

ployees, except-those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee “on the Budget; and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

|

{

i

|

!

i

1

{

3

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code. y

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

hw 68261 as

| Docld:32243279 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM ~
(Please-Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES *___~ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthonizing offical) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) _____ Effective Date
Sheryl Lyan Bonifer > - 2/77
E Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
=o [1 Arpeinment
° Employing Office or Committee . © Salary Adjustment
n Assassinatioas ~ 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information:)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [} Standing Committee: Staff—[(] Clerical. or (J Professional. a

n
E

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res..

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

|-certify that’ this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. .

All appointments -and.salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification. Act .and for:Committee em-
ployees; except-those:of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved: by the Committee on House Administration. .

APPROVED:.

ymittee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

a - -
Nw 68261 : = _-

Docld:32243279 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ae

- (Please Use*Typewrifer 2:
or Ballpoint Pen)

v Washington, D:C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

U hereby authorize the following payroll action:

US» HOUSE OF .REPRESENTATIVES ‘.

,

~ (Any. erasures, corrections, or-changes..
“on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

» Effective Date

Sheryl Lynn Bonifer

Lep' 3/76 |

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee

Select Comaittee on Assassinations

xO) Appointment
a Salary Adjustment

1 Termination (At-close of business on effective date)

(If type of Faction an Appointment-or Salary Adjustment, ‘complete the following information:)

Position Title ,

Gross Annual Salary

Secretary ~ :

$14,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item:below.)~

: 10
2.0

Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or

Professional.

2

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.15

3. [] Joint Committee.

{If Employee-of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

fb
eal
we p>. oom

Position Number. _.Step__ : am

_If applicable, Level_

ecw: hh certify: that this authorization is not in violation -of \5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting: the employment:of-*:~|
relatives. '

{Signature of Authorizing Official

owning, Chairman

All-appointments.and-salary-adjustments-for-employees:-under.the House Classification -Act: and: for:Gommittee “em:
<p, -ployees, except those. of: the: Gommittee-on- Appropriations, the«Gommittee ‘on therBudget, ond the Joint.Committees;:must™
* be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

ministration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.___.

i
: - 7 1
i
]

————

Nw 68261 ne t _.
‘| Docld:32243279 Page 5 ;



OC)

T-am not related ~~

“I am related by the following relationship

Signatyae oF Employee A c Date a 4

NW 68261 ooo
Docld:32243279 Page 6



OBJECTIVE:

EDUCATION:

1974-1975

1969-1973

EXPERIENCE:

1975-
present

c

Docid:32243279 Page 7

SHERYL LYNN BONIFER

\ 1521 Colonial Drive; #T-1

Noodbridge, Virginia 22192
225-6515 ‘

Seeking employment that would enable me to fully
utilize my potential and would offer responsibility
and challenge.

The Washington School for Secretaries
Washington, D. C.

Attended the Washington School for Secretaries
full-time for one year. Studied all aspects of
secretarial duties, including shorthand, legal
terminology, research techniques, bookkeeping,
accounting, business law, office management,
and business correspondence.

Graduated with academic honors.

Hayfield Secondary School
Alexandria, Virginia

Graduated in upper 25 percent of class.

Office of Finance
U. S. House of Representatives

Was .employed by the Office. of Finance in August,
1975. Duties at that time included handling
payroll for approximately 90 Members of Congress.
In less.than one year, I was promoted to one of
only three supervisory positions in the payroll
section. I am currently in charge of all payroll
matters pertaining to all House Committees, which
involves furnishing information on current funding
resolutions, providing accurate records of Com-
mittee allowances, and distributing monthly records
of expenditures for approval by the Chairman of
each Committee. In addition, I am responsible for
the prompt payment of all federal leases of office
space and computer leasing invoices for Members.

I am in charge of maintaining complete records of
the Lyndon Baines Johnson Intern Program, an
furnished each Member of Congress for the employment
of two additional employees each year. I also was
involved in a complete transition of payroll informa-
tion from one computer system to the current Finan-
cial Management System.

allowance.



Worked temporarily for an association from the
mid-west organizing and setting up a new branch
office in the Washington area. Duties included
interviewing for personnel, ordering furniture
and supplies, setting up the filing system, and
handling all secretarial duties.

Born and raised in Alexandria, Virginia. Recently
married and in excellent health. In addition to
my secretarial skills, I enjoy working with people
and am very dependable. I am willing to accept
responsibility and am a quick and efficient worker.

References will be furnished upon request.

$ eas
Sheryl L. Bonifer
Page 2
EMPLOYMENT:
Previous
e ADDITIONAL:

|

/

|

|| Nw 68261

} Docld:32243279 Page 8

