# docid-32565016

## Page 1

PH 92-441

PHILADELPHIA:

AT EXETER, PA.

1.

Will identify Marvel Industries. Subject was

• at this

business place on 4/17/64.

2.

Will identify Avenue Manufacturing Company. The subject

contacted officials of this company on

4/16/64.

AT HAMLIN, PA.

Will interview W. R. FULLWOOD, who operates a general sto

at Hamlin, Pa., and at one time was a watchmaker for Joseph Jewelr

and Morris Jewelry, both

at Scranton, Pa. Will question him conceini

his knowledge of the subject.

AT HARRISBURG, PA.

Will, at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, identify the

registered owner of Pennsylvania registration 123 550. The

subject was observed in Pittston by informant on 3/29/64 driving an

automobile bearing above registration.

AT OLD FORGE, PA.

WIll, at the Old Forge Bank, determine if a check was

drawn on the account of Tri-City Textile Company or RUSSELL A.

BUFALINO on 3/5/64 in amount of $338.31 to Central Ticket Agency®

Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and if so, by whom was it signed, did check

list reason

fon expense.

• 10

AT PHILADELPHIA 2 F

PA.

Will maintain contact with PH 614-C-TE.

2.

Will identify MARVIN BARRISH, 3524 Teton Road, Philadelphia.

BARRISH is the registered owner of the

Rambler sedan bearing Pennsylvania

registration 68220 H, which vehicle was observed on 10/17/63 parked

in the vicinity of Tri-City Textile Company, Old Forge, Pa.s

a

front operated by the subject.

→ D

-

COVER PAGE

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Caset N/ 69262 Date: 09-22-2022

NW 68262 Docld:32565016 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

3.

Will, if advisable, interview BARRISh concerning his

snowledge of the subject and/or of CAPPY GUIMENTO, who fronts for

the subject in the operation of Tri-City Textile Company.

4.

Will identify the principals in the Lush Cotton Company,

111 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

On 4/7/64, ABE HOFFBERG,

associate of subject, was observed operating a 1956 98 Oldsmobile

convertible, which bears Pennsylvania registration 11l-6, which

is listed to above concern.

This concern is reportedly out of business

and four or five years ago above vehicle was loaned to HOFFBERG and

allegedly was to have been transferred to his name. Currently at

the former address of Lush Cotton Company there is a Hercules Fiber

Company, operated by (FNU) SCHWARTZ (Phonetic), who formerly

operated the

Lush Cotton Company, according to a statement made by

him during 4/64.

AT PITTSTON, PA.

Will maintain contact with PH 521-C, PH 526-C, and

PH 701-C*.

AT SCRANTON, PA.

1.

Will identify THOMAS J. NAUSS, 802 Stafford Avenue,

Scranton. His Cadillac convertible, Pennsylvania registration

BG 764 was observed at Tri-City Textile Company on 10/13/63.

820

2.

Will identify and, if advisable, interview FRANK BRUST,

Mulberry Street.

His Oldsmobile sedan, Pennsylvania registration

98543G, was observed in the vicinity of Tri-City Textile Company on

12/6/63 °

3 .

Will identify the subscriber to telephone DI 7-5117,

called

on 3/22/64 from telephone of ABE HOFFBERG.

Administrative Data

The period of this report pre-dates referenced

report

because investigation conducted by an auxiliary office was not

received until after the referenced report was submitted

• E

-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565016 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

PH 614-C-TE, on 4/10/64, advised that ANGELO BRUNO,

Philadelphia, Pa., received a motor vehicle violation ticket

for over-time parking at 1:47 p.m. on 4/10/64, while parked in

front of 1933 Panama Street, Philadelphia.

Informant indicated BRUNO may possibly have visited

ABE HOFFBERG and/or RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, since this is in the

vicinity of ABE HOFFBERG's apartment.

PH 525-C, on 6/12/64, and PH 526-C, on 6/3/64, were not

able to furnish any pertinent information concerning

the subject.

PCI ANTHONY RINALDI, on 4/21/64, advised he could furnish

no new information concerning the subject.

The Newark Office, by letter dated 6/26/64, advised

that efforts to locate EDWARD V. DRISCOLL, 158 DeHart Street,

Elizabeth, N. J., were unsuccessful.

Mrs. EDWARD V. DRISCOLL advised her husband, as of 6/26/64,

was on a business

trip and would not return until July 1964.

Mrs. DRISCOLL advised the name of the subject was not familiar to

her and she could supply no reason why her telephone number was

called.

The Newark Office advised that efforts will be continued

to locate and interview EDWARD V. DRISCOLL.

PH 665-C-TE, on 6/3/64, advised that JANE COLLINS had

appeared as a witness

Philadelphia.

for the Government at the INS Hearing in

Following her testimony the subject told COLLINS his

attorney wanted her to return to the stand and testify that she had

never committed adultery with the subject and had never slept in the

same bed with him.

Informant said that COLLINS left Philadelphia

without returning to the stand, as requested by the sublect on 6/3/64.

The subject's hearing by INS has been adjourned until

September 1964.

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565016 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• 5.

PH 92-441

Informants

PH T-1

PH T-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5

PH T-6

PH T-7

PH T-8

PH T-9

PH T-10

PH T-11

PH T-12

PH T-13

PH T-14

PH. 665-C-TE

PH 665-C-TE

PH 614-C-TE

PH 526-C

PH 665-C-TE

PH 665-C-TE

Attorney PHILIP H. WILLIAMS, Stroudsburg, Pa.

PCI LOUIS ALPERT

JAMES HOSTETTER, Investigator, INS, Philadelphia, Pa.

PH 525-C

PH 521-C

PH 672-C-TE

ROBERT MICKUS, Manager, Slate Belt Apparel Contractor's

Association

RAY MC GARRY, Bell Telephone Company, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

Source utilized in letterhead memorandum is PH 701=C*.

COVEP PACE

NW 68262 Docld:32565016 Page 4

---

