JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY |ARA.
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10206
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy:document Control Record
DATE : !
PAGES :
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Disarmament, 7/63-10/63, item 4B.
Box 1

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 1


EK Ear MK-1+303 Bt Woe
TOWARD A NEW DISARMAMENT STRATEGY

Introduction

Until recently general and complete disarmament and a nuclear test
‘ban were the keystone of U.S. disarmament policy. Our success in negotiat-
ing a limited test ban treaty has changed the situation, for Premier Khrush-
chev has made clear that he has withdrawn his offer of three on-site in-
spections and, therefore, a comprehensive test ban treaty is no longer a
major factor in future negotiations. Although the Soviets will undoubtedly
continue to use their proposals for general and complete disarmament as a
political weapon, Premier Khrushchev's recent private comments indicate no
interest whatever in destroying missiles. All of this indicates that in the
fall of 1963 we should consider shifting our disarmament strategy to new
ground.

Present proposals for general and complete disarmament are framed in
@ political void which implies that all nations and weapons are created
equal. In our future policy we may wish to draw a greater distinction
between nuclear powers and non-nuclear powers and between nuclear weapons
and conventional weapons. It could recognize the fact that nations are not
equal -- that nuclear powers do have more power and, therefore, should have
greater influence and control in any international agreements. Finally, it
should come to grips with the issue of China end France.

Since the advent of atomic weapons in 1945, the control of nuclear
weapons on 4 world-wide basis has ‘een one of the primary objectives of

U.S. national policy. There is no reason now to change our objectives.

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 2



ak

The hot line, observation posts, and proposals to destroy B-47's may be
worthwhile but they should not be allowed to distract our attention from
the primary issue, the control of nuclear weapons. The shift we should,
and to some degree have made, is to emphasize agreement among the nucleer
powers rather than an international agreement. While resulting conventions
should be open to signature by all nations, they should be negotiated and
inspected primarily by the nuclear powers. It is no accident that both
DeGaulle and Khrushchev have emphasized negotiations by nuclear powers
while China has called for a world-wide disarmament conference of all
nations. :

Therefore, we should be prepared to negotiate a strategic force
freeze without requiring concurrent reductions in conventional forces.
As long as we can freeze the present strategic nuclear balance, then the
question of whether the Soviets have five or ten divisions, more or less,
in Central Asia is not a controlling factor. In any confrontation between
China and the United States, the Chinese are less likely to use their local
conventional superiority in the face of our atomic superiority. This is
not to suggest that conventional force reductions on the part of the Soviet
Union or other nations are not desirable, but rather that they can and
should be analyzed separately.

THE IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE OF U.S. POLICY COULD BE TO GAIN WORLD-WIDE
ACCEPTANCE OF LIMITATIONS ON INCREASES IN STRATEGIC FORCE LEVELS. THIS

SHOULD INCLUDE LIMITING STRATEGIC DELIVERY VEHICLES AT THEIR EXISTING LEVEL,
A CESSATION OF PRODUCTION OF FISSILE MATERIAL FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND A

Aa ON Oe

BAN ON BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS. THIS NEED NOT MEAN DISARMAMENT

PN nl

AT THIS TIME.

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 3


ak

In broad outline, our strategy could be based on a two-phase
program, as follows:

Phase I - the nuclear powers agree to freeze strategic nuclear forces
at their existing levels, forbid the construction or deployment of anti-
ballistic missile systems, and stop the further production of atomic mater-
ials for military purposes under adequate inspection. ‘They concurrently an-
nounce that, when all the militarily significant stetes sign the treaty
which is open to all nations of the world, they will meet together to
negotiate reductions in their existing strategic force levels.

Phase II - Participation of all important nations will be sought in
the above treaty, including China and France.

In the Washington disarmament debate, there has been great dispute
between those who advocate the continuation of our present arms build-up
and those who advocate proposals to the Soviet Union to agree to sharply
cut back nuclear delivery systems and warhead stockpiles. Little or no
attention has been given to the possibility that the Soviet Union would be
willing to agree to freezing its nuclear forces at existing levels. To
be sure, such a position contradicts all Soviet disarmament statements,
‘but such an agreement might serve Soviet interests within the Commmnist
world and confirm what the Soviet Union may do regardless of agreement.
Such an agreement would advance the joint interest of the United States
and the Soviet Union against the minor or aspiring nuclear powers. Para-
doxically, a U. S. proposal for a cut-off of fissionable material and
cessation of production of ams has never been thoroughly studied or
staffed because Soviet approval was not expected since such a proposal
would be 80 obviously in the interest of the U.S.

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 4


This memorandum discusses primarily the Phase I proposal and includes,
in TAB F and G, an outline of a possible approach to France and China.
The Soviet View

Military Anslysis

This agreement has military advantages for the Soviet Union. If
implemented on a world-wide basis, it would close the doors of the nuclear
club, thereby strengthening the military position of the Soviet Union vis-a-
vis both the non-nuclear powers and the minor nuclear powers, Britain and
France. This agreement would, in effect, confirm Soviet military superiority
over all nations of the world except the United States.

On the other hand, it has the disadvantage that it would clearly freeze
US strategic superiority.

U.S. and Soviet Strategic Delivery Vehicles
1965 1966
uo US USSR

Long-Range Bombers 630 185 630 9-175 630 175
ICBMs 855 200-260 1055 270-350 1205 300-150
Sub-Launched Missiles 346 5k kg 292 608 328
*Medium-Range Bombers 3 900 337 850 75 800
Medium Range Missiles 54 700-750 54 700-750 54 700-750

* Due to overseas bases and tankers U.S. medium-range bombers can attack
Soviet targets. Due to shortage of tankers very few Soviet medium-bombers
can hit targets in the United States, with the exception of Alaska. Soviet
IREMs, in present positions, cannot strike the US except in Alaska.

Clearly the Soviet Union would prefer not to accept e position of

strategic inferiority if they had an alternative. They do not. Now

that the United States Polaris and Minuteman progrems are hitting a

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 5


production rate of better than a missile per day, it is very doubtful
that the Soviet leadership could believe that they have any reasonable
chance of obtaining parity with the United States. If this truth is
perceived by the Soviet leadership, then they have no choice but to
accept numerical inferiority which does not alter the qualitative
balance. Therefore, the determining factor in the Soviet view will
undoubtedly be, not the balance of thermonuclear power, but the
political impact of such an agreement within the Commmist and non-
Communist world.

Another disadvantage would be the fact that the Soviet Union would
have to permit inspection. Clearly this would be odious to the Soviet
leadership. On the other hand, it need not represent an insuperable
obstacle. Khrushchev's test ban offer of three on-site inspections,
if made in good faith, would indicate that if the political benefits
of the agreement were high enough, the Soviet Union would allow in-
spection. In Western terms, adequate inspection for a production cut-off
could be achieved with relatively modest inspection, to-wit, permanent
parties at declared production plants plus a few on-site inspections of
suspicious plants. This inspection network which would be primarily in
fixed locations should be far more acceptable then the mobile inspections
that would be required for any agreement on force level reductions.
Political is

The current Sino-Soviet dispute bas brought and will probably continue
to bring about changes in Soviet political assessments. The recent Soviet
acceptance of the long-standing Western offer for a partial test ban treaty
was undoubtedly primarily due, not to economic pressures or any shift in

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 6


the military balence of power which have remained relatively static, but

to a changed Soviet assessment of the value of. the treaty in their dispute
with the Chinese. This proposal would have a number of political advantages
for the Soviet Union:

(1) It would increase pressure against diffusion, consolidating the
nuclear status of the USSR, U.S. and Britain, and probably further dividing
France from its NATO allies.

(2) It could save the Soviet Union billions of rubles.

(3) .It would seriously hinder the formation of the MLF.

It would also have some disadvantages:

(1) It would permit Western inspection in the Soviet Union.

(2) It would guerantee continued U.S. nuclear superiority.

Despite these arguments, probably the principal incentive for the Soviet
leadership would be their assessment of the political utility of this proposal,
both in strengthening their hand within the Commmist movement and in dividing
the Western alliance.

Ie the Soviet Union could justify the treaty in terms of advancing
the cause of the International-Commmist Party and Soviet leadership,
this agreement might be viewed by Moscow as & powerful tool in strengthen-
ing their policy of peaceful coexistence. If not, this fact in itself
would probably be sufficient to cause the rejection of the proposal.
Evidence from the present Moscow-Peiping debate indicates that the
Soviet Union has elready begun to defend the nuclear status quo as 4 Soviet
(not U.S.) advantage. (See Tab C.) In their August 20 reply to the CPR

government, the Soviet leadership clearly implied that Soviet strategic

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 7

e


forces are adequate to "shield" the Socialist camp and that the present
nuclear balance is in the interests of the Commmist movement. It would
appear that this ideological position could be readily extended to cover
an agreement to freeze the present balance of forces. Certainly if the
Soviet Union takes the position that the present balance of forces has
changed to their advantage, they should not find it hard to argue that
freezing the present balance would be in the Soviet interest. In order to
increase the likelihood of Soviet acceptance if such an agreement were
worked out, we should indicate to the Soviet Union that we would be willing
to include in a separate commmique a statement that "at such time as all
militarily significant states have signed this treaty, the original
signatory powers agree that they shall confer; to seek agreement to reduce
their military forces as a further step toward the common objective of
general and complete disarmament." This would put the responsibility for
disarmament failure on China and possibly France.

To date, the lack of any lengthy substantive Soviet discussion on
nuclear delivery vehicle limitations may be due to the fact that they
have no expectation whatever that the United States would agree to such
limitations at this time. The Soviet leadership, like the U.S. leadership,
must be very wary of proposing new agreements which are rejected, perti-
cularly if they include concessions. Last October at the U.N. Mr. Gromyko
indicated Soviet interest in cutting back strategic vehicles and this
spring Mr. Tsarapkin said the Soviet Union would permit on-site inspections
as controls on an agreement to limit strategic delivery vehicles; but

neither statement evoked any apparent interest in the U.S. The US Government

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 8


has never made clear to the Soviet Union a specific proposal which would
result in a freeze or a reduction in nuclear delivery forces. Therefore,
the very existence of a firm U.S. proposal would profoundly change the
existing situetion and require a searching reappraisal by the Soviet
leadership.

The US View

Analysis

While this agreement would significantly alter existing US military
plans, its military edvantages appear to out-weigh the disadvantages.
According to present plans (SIOP-63 and future force projections) on
1 duly 1965 the strategic power of the U.S. measured in initial. delivery
capability will be stabilized at approximately 4100 warheads and 9200

megatons. Therefore, despite appearances such an agreement will not have
a major effect upon the size of U.S. strategic force.

NUMBERS OF WEAPONS

FY 63 FY 64 FY 65 FY 66 FY67 FY 68 FY 69 FY 70

Missiles 136 834 1034 1178 41378 41507 1507 1507
Bombs 2800 3000 3100 2850 2850 2850 2650 2650
Total 3236 3634 4134 hoe8 hee8 4357 4i57 = 4157
MEGATONNAGE

63 FOL OH MO MET OS HE FTO

Missiles 1250 18690 2130 2300 2390 250 e250 6 ali50
Boulbs 6350 7200 7150 7100 7100 7100 6650 6650_
Total 7600 9090 9280 9400 9490 9550 9100 9100

If we provide weapons from our existing stockpile, either™® A 5 (aly) (D)

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 9


Abe

or to a MLF, this would result in a relatively small decrease in U.S.
strategic forces but no net decrease in NATO strategic forces. ‘The
major impact would be a freeze in the qualitative strategic arms
race. The current transition from manned forces such as the B-!7 and
B-52 to invulnerable missiles such as Minuteman and Polaris would be
halted. Nevertheless, by 1 July 196, relatively large invulnerable

forces will be in operation. The following chert shows this transition.

U.S; STRATEGIC INVENTORY
1 July 1964 1 July 1965 1 July 1966

Aircraft Qperational Total Operational Total Operational Total
B-52 630 705 630 699 630 695
B-4T 483 LO7L 257 = 1065 Oo 1063
3-58 80 _ 88 fo _85 epi nieiea
TOTAL Aircraft 1193 1865 97  18h9 705 18h
Missiles
Atlas 138 183 137 173 131 173
Titan 117 149 117 149 117 1h9
Minuteman 600 656 800 82h. 950 999
Polaris 346 3h6 bho 591 608 853
Regulus 0 121 ° 110 ° 110
Mace B 5k 105 oh 105 5h 105,
TOTAL Missiles 1255 1560 1557-1952 1860 2389

Such an agreement would, of course, stop the deployment of any
pallistic missile defense system. At present we probably do not know
how to build a ballistic missile defense system with high-kill probabilities
against more than ten warheads each equipped with 10 heavy objects and

known penetration aids, due to

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 10


interceptor self-kill, decoys, etc. An agreement to freeze Soviet
pallistic missile forces would not seem to increase the vulnerability
of U.S. cities and strategic forces. While the level of Soviet bomber
defenses will influence our attack capability, it is recommended that
we do not explicitly negotiate such an agreement but privately convey
to the Soviet Union that increases in Soviet or U.S. air defense would
result in abrogation. (An attempt to limit air defenses would raise
major inspection problems and would undoubtedly ultinately require
limitations on ell aircraft because of the air defense capability of
tactical aircraft.) Similarly, we would have to insure that the Soviet
Union did not suddenly launch a major civil defense program. Since this
too is amenable to intelligence checks, it is recommended that this be
made clear to the Soviets in private but that no explicit agreement on
this be established.

The cut-off of fissionable material would in itself limit two basic
areas of future weapons development. First, the development of a
pallistic missile system which would already be forbidden by the treaty.
The other area of emphasis is current fissile material production for
tactical nuclear weapons, particularly atomic artillery. The develop-
ment of more efficient small nuclear weapons would not be ruled out by
such an ‘agreement for these weapons could be fabricated from fissile
material in the stockpile including material fabricated from obsolete
weapons. Because of the short life time of tritium, which is essential

for a number of our strategic weapons, it is essential that, explicitly

10

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 11


48.

or implicitly we be permitted to maintain our tritium stockpiles at
existing levels by producing sufficient quantities to compensate for
losses due to radio-active decay. Relatively small quantities, a few
kilograms, are involved.

Finally, while it is unlikely that this proposal will immediately
lead to a cessation of Chinese efforts to build atomic weapons, it
might well be the first step in a series of events which would lead
to this result. Certainly the position if agreed to by the Chinese
would make production of Chinese weapons impossible. In summary then,
an agreement of this kind could well be in the interest of the United
States Government.

Political Analysis

A successfully negotiated agreement on these terms would probably
gain broad support throughout the free world including many "neutralists".
By opening the treaty to all nations of the world a clear line would be
drew between those governments supporting limitations on nuclear weapons
and those rejecting such limitations. Probably all European countries
with the exception of France and Germany would support the agreement.
The Germans probably could be persuaded to support it by continued es-
surance that the U. S. would maintain arms in Germany and/or by US/FRG
cooperation in a multilateral force constituted from nuclear delivery
vehicles in existence prior to the effective date of the treaty. (The
multilateral force would have to be constituted by transfer of some
existing United States weapons rather than the construction program

which is now envisioned.)

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 12


G8
{ 4iv

——
Such an agreement would represent a moment of truth '« Act 5 (9) (2) 1p

On the one hand, limitations on proposals for nuclear delivery vehicles

5 (gl (2) (D

has been the position supported by +5 2) }irom the moment
ore acLS TC) Analy proposed 4t in 1953 untiZ{ A 7 7 Puost recent state-

ment following the signing of the test ban. We can and should take the

position that we are willing to share some of our JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

[ST esttvery ventetes 29ST an agree to the

test ban and a cessation of further production. *ct 5 (9) (2) (Day or may

not agree to participate on such terms. In any case, the political
pressure for agreement should be very great. (This is discussed in
sek Rot 5 (9) (2) (D)

os
\ It is almost certain that the Chinese government would reject the
proposal but it would further divide the Commmist world and undermine
support of the revolutionary wing of the International-Commmist Party.
Furthermore, it would put both the USSR and the United States Govern-
ments on record against a ChiCom acquisition of nuclear weapons, thus
laying the foundation for later initiatives.

Domestically the agreement should probably fare about as well as
the test ben treaty. That is to say, there would be a vocal minority
rabidly opposed but the clearly demonstrable advantage to the United
States should gain broad support in all of American society, including

the United States Senate.

NW 66754 Docld:32626310 Page 13
