# docid-32334663

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90118-10022

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

CR 62-75147-12-108

Released under the John F. Kennedy

sassination Records Collection act

192 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:N'

64573 Date: 12.14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/15/1957

4

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE DALLAS

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/19/1999

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

NW 64578 Docld:32334663 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

STi I''TO FOSY NO 6L

Office Memorandum • UNITED STALES GOVERNMENT

DATB: February 15, 1957

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

LAGN DATERIS (94-55)

SUBJECI:

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE

DALLAS DIVISION

There is being forwarded herewith to the Bureau

the report on the above-captioned matter covering a period

from August 15, 1956, to February 15, 1957, with copies of

this report being furnished the San Antonio and Houston

Divisions.

2 - BUREAU (Encls. 2)

9 lughs 1, 8,13, 24,25, 21

1 - HOUSTON (Encl. 1)

- SAT ANTUNTO (ENGI, 1) @@a 10.113840,57-54,

57,66-69

1 - DALLAS (94-55)

VED/ga

(5)

PoLARS 63.04

states

Lionell 28-30, 45,82

rief Rigins 42,02, 66-64.

INDEXED - gg

aEx-126 val

RECORCED-60

62-25717-12-108

* FEB 18 195/

ENCLOSURE

2-20-57.

716

NW 64578 Docld:32334663 Page 2

---

## Page 3

HEADQUARTERS CITY

•0N/2,

Texas

A.

ORGANIZED GANGS

During the past six months, frequent contacts have

been had with Chief of Police CARL F. HANSSON, Captain WALTER

FANNIN of the Burglary and Theft Bureau, Captain W. P. GANNAWAY,

National Academy, of the Special Services Bureau, Captain FRANK

MARTIN

of the Juvenile Bureau, and M. W. STEVENSON, Deputy Chief

of the Criminal Investigation Division, all of the Dallas Police

Department.

Frequent contacts have also been had with DL-50-C,

DL-52-C, DL-53-C, DL-71-C, DL-73-C, DL-80-C, PCI H. D. WHITE,

Sheriff

J. E. BILL DECKER,

Dallas County, and FORREST KEENE,

National Academy, University Park Police

Department, Dallas,

Texas.

During contact with the above-mentioned sources, there

has been no indication of any organized gangs in the City of

Dallas or Dallas County.

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS

During the past six months, contact with the above-

mentioned informants and law enforcement officers, who are in

a position to evaluate racketeers and mobsters in

the City of

Dallas and vicinity, has revealed they have no information

which indicates there are any new racketeers or mobsters that

have sprung up during the past six months.

GEORGE JETTY BASS,

RAYMOND*POPS, DallaS PONiCe Bas, ent N0: 33052

These individuals continue to reside in Irving, Texas.

The activities of BASS and POPE are observed frequently by the

Dallas Police Department Special Services Bureau, and by Sheriff

J. E. BILL DECKER. Both advised that they are confident BASS

and POPE are still engaged in burglaries, but have not been able

to build

sufficient evidence against them to bring them into

court.

NICKCASCIO, Dallas Police Department No. 11976

NICK CASCIO, a known associate of BASS and POPE, was

arrested in Oklahoma City on January 23, 1957 in the act of

burglarizing a local business establishment. CASCIO was charged

with burglary after breaking and entering, along with one VERNON.

20

NW 64578 Docld:32334663 Page 3

---

