JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

5/7/2015

‘Agency Information

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBE!

FBI
124-10221-10491

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3171-225,

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HILL, RALPH RJR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 03/05/1961
‘PAGES: 406

SUBJECTS :

SAM, AKA, BKG, DESCR, RES, REL, EMP, ILLEGAL ACT,
ASSOC, B/F INT, MED, OC, NUMEROUS INTV, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS.

COMMENTS : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES la-1c, INDEX PAGES a-r

tthe John
assassination Records Collection Act off

992 [44 USC 2107 Note}, Caset:Niw
g 0

vot

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 1

385


i CG 92-349 i ‘i
a
fi .
i INFORMANTS
Informant No, Identity
CG T-1 CG 6343-C%
| CG T-2 . Confidential
| mos : report of 1946
; S _ investigation of
: “.GIANCANA
q eens
CG T+3 -SANDY SMITH,
ca "Chicago Tribune"
ae Crime Reporter
(requested)
CG T-4 CG 6132-C
CG 6272-C
° Former PCI
DUKE CAMP
CG 6457-PC
CG T-8 CG 6241-C
CG T-9 Anonymous Source
CG T-10 Former PCI
2 . PARKS
“te B=
7 7 Ee COVER PAGE

‘ - i ‘ i

irises

COMPLY TIAL

Agent to Whom Furnished
and Date

a On. various dates from
August, 1959 to March, 1961,
SAs HILL, WILLIAM F, ROEMER,
VINCENT -L, INSERRA, JOHN W,

ROBERTS ;

Officers R, HUTCHINSON and

PIOTTER, Oak Park, Police
Department

Various dates to SAs HILL,
ROEMER, ROBERTS, FRANCIS
J, STEFANAK

SA WILLIAM J. MC CORMICK,
2/26, 3/2, 3/11/58

SA ROEMER, various dates
3/59 - 4/61

SA HILL, 2/28/58
SA HILL, various dates March
and April, 1961

SA HILL, various dates
12/59 - 4/61

Unknown

SA THOMAS HERRIGAN, 2/23/59

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 2



CG 92-349

cG
CG

CG

cG

cG

cG

CG

CG

eG

CG

cG

T-11
T-12

T-13

T-14

T-15

‘T-16

T-17

T-18
T-19
T-20

T=21

T-22
T-23

‘su 370-¢

PCI BELDEN KATLEMAN

Internal Revenue Service

8/12/60

SA BRYAN C, WHEELER
6/30/58

U. S. Department of Treasury

Central Investigative Bureau
New York City Police Department

(requested)
CG 6443-C

SAs JOSEPH G, SHEA and
WILLIAM J. MEINCKE,

. Various dates January -

DANIEL PASSARELLA

1320 Broadway

Melrose Park, Illinois
(requested)

CG 6215-C

PCI MARY MUNKRITTICK

PCI ANDREW FAVA

W. E, LEYPOLDT

Nevada Sate Gaming
Control Board (requested)

RALPH LAMB, Sheriff,
Park County, Nevada

(requested)
Ny 3090-C
Anonymous Source
-C-
‘COVER PAGE

April, 1961
SA HILL, 5/8/58"

SA ROBERT L, BAKER,
9/11/58

-SA WILLIAM R, SWOPE

4/10/61

Unknown ie

ee ee.

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 3



CG

CG

cG

92-349
T-24
T-25
T-26
T-27
T-28
T-29

T-30
T-31
T-32

T-33
T-34
T-35
T-36
T-37

T-38

co TIAL
‘Former PCI DIANE RUNNING SA HILL, 9/4/59
PCI MARSHA RIVERS ==» SA ROBERT L, KAAS, 9/15/59
‘BUD BARET SA ROBERT L, KAAS

249 East 49th Street
New York City (requested)

NY PCI GEORGE UNGER SA ARTHUR J. ACHENBACH

9/18/59

‘JOHN TEETER 9/20/60

New York City (requested)

PCI DOMENIC SEALZETTI © SA JOHN R. PHILLIPS,
5/11/56

Former PCI GLADYS EDLE SA HILL, 2/17/61
PCI H. H. HODL SA HILL, 2/28/61

Confidential source known
to the Bureau

EILEEN EDGAR, Illinois IC JACK E, WHALEN, 4/15/59
Bell Telephone Company 7

(requested)

Former PCI H, L, WILLIAMS SA HILL, 2/20/58

Former PCI IRENE TOEROSS SA AUGUST C, KEMPFF,

4/9/58

Fomer PCI FRANCIS "Jack" SA LESTER K, ESAREY,
JACKSON ' 8/6/58

Former PCI MICHAEL = © = SA_FRANK.L, MELLOTT,
GALLAGHER / 9/30/58

CG 6343-C*

<\ph

-D-— TaN
COVER PAGE : res

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 4



CG 92-349

cG

CG
CG

CG

"eG
cG
ce
cG

T-39

T-40

T-41
T-42

T-43

T-44
T-45

T-46
T-47
T-48
T-49

IRVING HORNSTEIN

LOUIS E, CORRINGTON,
President, Guaranty
Bank and Trust, Chicago
(requested)

Dun & Bradstreet

D. E. STEVENS
Village President,
Rosemont, Illinois
(requested)

JERROLD WEXLER,
President, Jupiter
Oil Company , Chicago
(requested)

PCI WILLIAM OTTO FREEMAN

“ HOWARD JOHNSON, Vice-~

President, American
National Bank, Chicago
(requested)

CG 6343-C*

CG 6343-C*

PCI OLLIE CHRISTENSON

Sgt. FRANK NASH,

Chicago Police Department,

Intelligence Unit
(requested)

-E-
COVER PAGE

ae 4)

SA BENJAMINE G, HELSEL, JR,
8/14/58

acd

SAs HILL and INSERRA

5/2/60
SAs HILL and ROBERTS

SA HILL

SA RAYMOND F, HOGAN
SA HILL

SA HILL
SA HILL

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 5


CG 92-349 .
CG T-50 Former PCI TONY HORTON SA PAUL B, FRANKEURE
6/17/59 Ul PDS. a

CG T-51 FRANK. E,. WRIGHT, : SA HILL, 6/23/59 ©
President, United . :
Public Bonding And
Insurance Company,
Indianapolis, Indiana
(requested) :
CG T-52 P, E, DUNN, Investigator, SA KENNETH L. GROEPER
| Dun & Bradstreet (requested)

CG T-53 ABRAHAM L, KOOLISH SA HILL and SA ROBERTS
64 Old Orchard aie
Skokie (requested)

CG T-54 JOYCE LANE, Former - SA JOHN C,. NOONAN,and SA
PCI : VINCENT L. INSERRA,
4/1/58

CG T-55 Former PCI PAUL TIMRECK SA FRANKFURT and JOSEPH C,|
WHEELER, 5/6/58

CG T-56 |GERALD COVELLI, SA JAMES L, ‘O'CONNOR,
Inmate, U. S, Penitentiary 8/5/59
Leavenworth, Kansas
CG T-57 eG 5951-C 5/54
CG T-58 CG 5841-c SA STEFANAK
2/18/55 :
CG T-59 CG 6218-C SA INSERRA, 2/18/58
CG T-60 Former PCI ISADORE SA ESAREY, 10/17/58
IRGANG :
: CG T-61 CG 6313-C SA CHRIS J, DELAMER,
‘ 1/21/60
{ - Fn “ }
on f COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 6


CG 92-349

CG T-62

CG T-63

CG T-64
CG T-65

CG T-66

T-67

T-68
CG T~69
cG T-70
T-71

CG T-72

Heer 23 pfrmex- 4

Income taxxeturns received
from Internal Revenue
Service, Washington, D, C.

PAUL JOHNSON, Village
Trustee, Stone Park,
(requested)

PCI JOHN NOTTOLINI

Ill. |

CG 6428-C

ROBERT SCHUMM, Supervisor,
Middle States Telephone
Company (requested)

BURTON HOMA, Special Agent,
Internal Revenue Service,
Intelligence Division,
Chicago (requested)

PCI GERARD C, MURRAY

CG 6379-C
PCI BENJAMIN JULIUS HIRSCH
Former PCI RALPH KELLY

PCI ALBERT TEMANER

(va)

-G-
COVER .PAGE

COMBBEUTHAL

SA HILL

SA HARRY A.

SA BRYAN J. MOGEN
12/16/60

SA BAKER

WALKER

SA HILL

SA HILL, 3/27/61

SA CURTIS A, HESTER,
1/9/60

SA CLARK A, HULL
4/13/61

SA WALKER
9/28/60

SA J. J. MATTHEWS uy

)

COSPCLTIAL

)

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 7



mo
5

CG 92-349 ,

CG T-36 advised that there are no waiters at
Norwood House and that the waitresses are all married and

at least over 30 years of age. He furnished the name
the first cook as ELLIS (LNU), telephone LI 8-7185. He

stated atother cook was named SMITTY and that possibly his
first name:is EMMETT, CG T-36 advised that. one GLEN (LNU)
is the: head: busboy at: this restaurant. and appears. to be
more acquainted with “hoodlums" that any. of the. other:
employees. He explained that GLEN and. his wife reside in.
the rear. of TRIP MEO's woman's. clothing store on North
Avenue and. that. GLEN's wife works in this same store. ~
Further, that.GLEN has worked at. TONY ACCARDO's. house. and
some of the other “hoodlums"' for private parties. He
stated that. GLEN is about- 40 years of age and drives'a
1956 Pontiac. which is white and pink in color. \,

CG T-36 stated that years ago, before the MEO :
brothers got into the restaurant business, JIMMY MEO-had an
orchestra which was well known throughout, the Middle. West
and. that..CHUCK MEO. worked for one "NEEDLES" in some. type

= of gambling set up. (a)

On May 8, 1958, CG T-36 was recontacted by SA
ESAREY and:a group of photographs of individuals in the
Chicago area. were.exhibited to CG T-36. The following
listed individuals were picked out of the group of photographs
by. CG T=36: UW 7 :

SAM GIANCANA, with alias. MOONEY
JIMMY ADDUCCI
JOSEPH IMBURGIO BULGER
JOE CORNGOLD
TONY ACCARDO, with alias. JOE BATTERS
GUS ALEX
LENNY PATRICK
i MARSHALL CAIFANO
SAM BATTAGLIA
YY HUMPHREYS
PHIL KATZ
ROCCO FISCHETTI

= 92 —

eit

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 8


oo

CG 92-349

: CG T-36. furnished: the name of one JAMES DALLAS ,.
_]/¢ommonly known as . "SHERMAN". who has worked for approximate j
ten years.at the Villa. mice as a.cook; He described DA f
as‘a-:tall thin dark fellow, approximately 40 years of age, i
who: tells a lot of lies and always has creditors chasing him. i
He added, however, that. DALLAS: seems.to be a favorate.of SAM |

\

|

MOONEY at the Villa Venice.’ He explained that .SAM used to.

loan’ SHERMAN @ car to:;drive back and forth to work, He added- |

that .SHERWAN- is the type of fellow who will. work steady for. i
| {four :o»-five. months. without missing a day and then go off

on-a two weeks drunken binge. On two or three.occasions, he j

took SAM MOONEY's car with him. As-a, result of: this, i

SHERMAN <did ‘not have. the use.:of MOONEY's car s\4

CG T-36 related that the Villa Venice was. bought
approximately two years ago by. MOONEY and/or. the MEO's from
one’ PAPPA BOUCHE (phonetic). He stated BOUCHE (phonetic) is
known asa Frenchman.and is very well. liked. He added that.
BOUCHE was then Operating & restaurant in Florida. CG T-36.
stated. thatthe Villa: Venice now has s station ‘wagon. courtesy
car: which .1s.driven: bya young, tall, thin Negro approximately
25 years of age-(4)

Records of the Map. Department, Cook County, 118
North Clark; Chicago, Illinois, made available. by.
‘ROCCO. "TROCCOLT , Clerk, on July "9, 1958, reflect.that..the
site.of the Villa. ‘Venice, 2855, South Milwaukee Avenue,
Northfield Township, is legally described as.Assessor' 8
Division; SW 4, Lot.2, Sec. 19, T. 42, R. 12, consisting:
of:-7,20. acres North of. Road; and. Assessor’ s Division,
sw 4; Lot 3, Sec. 19, T.-42; R.°12,: consisting of /40:acres: :
East. of. Gravel: Road. ‘The’ 7, 120 acres: described ‘above is. H
referred to as Item 1443; Vol. 131, of the Tax Warrant. Books,
The .40. acres described above is referred to as Item 1445,
Vol. 131. w)

_Examination of the Tax Warrant Books for: the
years 1956 and. 1967, under Item Number 1443 and 1445, |
Volume 131, reflect:that. taxes for these years were paid
by JAMES MEO, 7219 West Lawrence, Norridge, Illinois. M

.

- 93 =

NW 68262 Docld:32341098 Page 9
