JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10215-10099
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2713-470
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: COLLINS, PATRICK J. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE :
DATE: — 01/23/1968
PAGES: 58
SUBJECTS :
CM, ASSOC, LCN, TRA, LICENSES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/11/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

fssassination Records Collection act off
Nat

992 (44 USC 2107 Note}. Case

vol

NW 68262 Docld:32295323 Page 1

21


FEDERA:’ BUREAU OF INV.

STIGATION:,

i NEW ORLEANS NEW ORLEANS 1/23/68 10/28/67 - 1/15/68
TITLE OF CASE ‘ REPORT MADE BY : TYPEO BY
; :
‘) PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR. MBC !
a MARCELLO CHARACTER OF CASE Fj
aka i
AR H
i
a REFERENCE
ray

NOrep of SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR., 10/27/67.

aay | (Lg

i le ADMINISTRATIVE
Fite abet icin bag :
i On 1/12/68, ‘NO 1435-C-TE advised that CARLOS
ii MARCELLO telephonically contacted him and invited informant
4 to be MARCELLO's guest at the Superbowl football game,
Miami, Florida, 1/14/68, MARCELLO indicated that they
would spend several days in Miami and MARCELLO: would
/ Conduct Some business in Miami.
SHeeeeE HoH ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED. N ACQUIT-| case was ceen:
convie[auro.| rue. FINES SAVINGS Recoveries | TAL:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR K]yves [Jno
PENDING PROSECUTION
OVER SIXMONTHS = (“Jv ES [INO

APPROVED Fanteaanesite DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

N. CoPies mane:

}

|

Fakes LH EH

< Budeau (92-2713) YAN Ph 2a SLO) 68

I I - USA, EDLA, New Orleans, Lal. 2 :

fy 2 ~ Jackson 1968

at 2 - Portland 16 JAN 25

SE 3 - New Orleans (92-36) fee 7 a :
: a uh

a: t

“Dissemination Record of Attached Report Notations os ;

, AAG, Criminal Division, —

| Organize Crime and Racketeering __|

_| Section, Tom, SY i ceive

| NW 68262 Docld:32295323 Page 2


om -

Nad

NO 92-36

agree to let the agent view the note for a.few moments.
He advised that the original of the note was in a
safety deposit box and could be obtained for court by
issuing a subpoena’ to him as custodian of the note.

The copy of the note, which was payable to J.
FOLSE ROY for $300,000.00 bore the signature of CARLOS
MARCELLO. On the back of the note was,a statement”
advising that the sum of the note was backed by certain |
coded security, stocks in Churchill Farms, Inc. and in ~~”
Bayou Verret Land, Company, Inc. The sum of the note
was further backed by a promissory note dated 11/25/60,

‘signed by VINCENT C. RODRIGUEZ and made payable to

FLORENCE MONTALDO which CARLOS MARCELLO apparently: had
bought from MONTALDO. The back of the J. FOLSE ROY note
was notarized by M, H. CONNOLLY.

MAGEE advised that RODRIGUEZ was ROY's
attorney, but FLORENCE MONTALDO was not known to him. He
believed M. H. CONNOLLY was MARY CONNOLLY.

The several sources in California referred to
in the body of this report are the following:

LA 4448-C-TE
LA 4577-C-TE
LA 4412-C-TE,

COVER PAGE
c

NW 68262 Docld:32295323 Page 3



NO 92-36

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NO T-1
NO 1457-C-TE
NO T-2
NO 1212.¢
NO 1-3
Mi 623-C-TE
NO T-4
JEWELL MC KELLER
PCI
NO T-5-

PX 777-C-TE

i NO T-6
NO 1458-PC
NO T-7 -

NO 1435-C-TE
NO T-8

NO 1548-PC
NO T-9

NO 1252-PC
NO T~10

PH 599-C-TE
NO T-11

PH 672-C-TE

Contacting Agent

“PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.
REED W. JENSEN
CARLYLE N. REED and

DANIEL E. BRANDT
JOHN E. DECKER

PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.
JACK EVANS MEHL
ALBERT B, MILLER
PATRICK J.’ COLLINS, JR.
J. ROBERT PEARCE

J, ROBERT PEARCE’

COVER PAGE
E

| NW 68262 Docld:32295323 Page 4


NO 92-36

INFORMANTS (CONTINUED)

Identity of Source

NO T-12-
NY 4018-C-TE

NO T-13

THOMAS MOORE

(by request),
Manager,

‘own House Motel,
Lafayette, La.

NO T-14
NO 1518-PC

NO T-15
REX ANTHONY
PCI

NO T-16-
MM 1231-C-TE

NO T-17
NK 2428-C-TE

NO T-18
LEON BILLEK
PCI

NO T-19
NO 1529~PC

NO T-~20
SL 1397-PC

NO T-21
NO 1583~PC

Contacting Agent

JACK H. LUPTON

RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

PATRICK C. CAHILL

THOMAS L. COLARELLI

PATRICK J. COLLINS

MICHAEL BARON

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32295323 Page 5

|
{
i
\
