# docid-34432019

## Page 1

Date

Page

01/27/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10013-10345

RECORDS SERIES

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ZF000003W - PAGE 1388

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM : BROTHER-HEART

TO : MARGOT GOTTSCHALK

TITLE : LETTER

DATE: 11/30/57

PAGES

SUBJECTS : DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL

GOTTSCHALK, MARGOT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

***

***

* * *

*

*

*W*

* I*

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

11992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66754 Date: 09-22.2022.

*C*

*A*

***

***

* * *

--

NW 66754 Docld:34432019 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENT

- 5.-

Annexure I to

BRIP/0/11/441

dated 3

Nov 57:

TRANSLATION

of the postscript written by Margot GOTTSCHATK.

Dear Brother-heart !

As you have not let us hear anything

from you, we are

If this (letter) does not get a reply I will leave

you in peace.

Jimmie says that we live. our lives here and Moma

should live her life.

I hope you will not be angry with Jimmie

because he had written this letter.

We know that it is not your

that I should

ask you if you are coming

Christmas.

We do hope

This week we move into

accomodation, 2 rooms and a kitchen.

So we have bought new

curtains, a large dining-room table; 4 chairs and

we

getting forward.

We also have a budgerigar.

He is called Peter..

Today he gave Jimmie a kiss.

have seen it..

And in the morning,

if I do not get up at once,

he makes a

noise until I do get up and

I will close now,.

Many Greetings and a Kiss

From your sister Maggie.

Write again soon, yes ?

TRANSLATED by Sgt J.B. BARKLAM.

BRITISH INTELLIGENCE POOL (BERLIN).

JJBB.

(.../to sheet 6 , Annexure II.)

1388

CONFIDINTIAL

NW 66754 Docld:34432019 Page 2

---

