JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90147-10006
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-93072-NR
7 Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 10/02/1961
‘PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
"RAUL ROA
RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : AT
the Jol
ennedy Assassination Records|
collection Act of 1992 (44 USC
7 Note], Case#: NW 64578
= 2-14.20
v9.1 : 42

; NW 64578 Docld:32339293 Page 1


a a
: cepee
: a
a2 : é 10/2/64
AIRTEL

DECLAS
TO: DIRECTOR, ranfans-2205) 4/5)

FROM: SAC; NEW vous 05-26809) } Gh
susskcT: PRAUL ROA ri
‘OREIGN POLITICAL MATTER = CUBA &
EL P(

Remytel to Bureau, 9/30/61.
Transmitted herewith are nine copies of a letterhead
memorandum, captioned and dated as above.

a sister of the wife of ‘RAUL R ‘and as the Bureau is aware
s visiting in the apartment of ROA on a daily basis. tn.

WY 1-2 isfy ss7aest (SY

NY T-1 is psi{RENE naan JUSTIZ, married to

aprtment ,
ROA[ excuse

= Bureau
© Miami

ELS: a
FF

OY

ss & te

i
| ~R20CT 13 1964,

fest answered the Soop ROA's apartment when
_RICHARD

SUAN OTERO, described[by psi} |
“as one” ese Cuban G-2 agents in’ ”

7 GIBSON arrived; howev

brushed right by PSI an

himself from pSI's immediate presence an

and sat down on the sofa with GIBSON where a ver lengthy
Br took place in English. Aga

O5« 2824

aie

3446:
eae

6337)

CIs)

JENCLS. 9) (RM)
Lg. 2)(RM)

© xoom next to ROA*S
Ook GIBSON to R
né over

(Pst was wit

Not RECORDED

a 201,0CT 10 1961

oe ee S

A ROA fin}, :
—oe

WAE=FSOR2 ~.

} NW 64578 Docld:32339293

Page 2



Hv 105-36809 bx) d

(he iscenepftha inquired if the visitor was not one of the:
Asiatic Friends, She replied that he is not, that he is one.
of “our American friends in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee,’
he,is the Secretary NOW''.. Due to the emphasis ppt on "now"

if ownes his post is. temporary. [Informant waefab le to

héar something concerning "muLltilith" and "papers", but the
thread of the conversation could not-be put together. ADA
mentiongd something about the "Friends" having a hard time,

(and ps ifssumed conversation might have had todo with
financfal arrangements, as ROA definitely did not want (pst in
the room while he talked to GIBSON,

This memorandum is classified "Confidential", since
any revelation of the contents to unauthorized sources could.
seriously compromise [Pst and} endanger relatives he has residing
in Cuba. :

One copy is furnished MM for information, since
that office has constant interest in Cuban matters, and in
order to keep that office informed re productivity of (pst RENE
PELLEYA sustiZyS}

«2+

c :

i NW 64578 Docld:32339293 Page 3
