JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90066-10041
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-3960-70
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 01/22/1964
PAGES: 13
SUBJECTS :
SALVATORE GRANELLO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/24/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

V9.1

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Cas

NW 68262 Docld:32327800 Page 1


NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE

The investigative period of this report is extensive
since certain information from the auxiliary offices was ,
received subsequent to the preparation of the referenced report.

By. communication dated 11/27/63, the Miami Division
furnished the following information from the Legat, Rio de Janiero,

Brazil: (Bu)

on 10/7/63 , ECs SERGIO LUIZ AZERADO| advised that
a spot check of the residéfice SIDNEY MOSS reVealed that he

.was no, longer living at this address in Rio de Janiero, Brazil.

Inquiries in the nei; orhood failed to reflect his present
whereabouts. {AZERADOPfurther advised that a check at the Car
Rental Agency,which flad been operated by MOSS,developed
information that MOSS is no longer associated with this enterprise.
The individuals operating the company, stated they were unaware
of MOSS' present location. @ZER rther advised that
investigation is continuing to relocate MOSS, inasmuch as the
Process.pf) is now ready to move on the Expulsion

cess,

On 10/31/63, (@zERaDO rther reported that investigation
had developed that during August, MOSS had attempted to bribe
an employee of the Foreigners Registration Service :to return
his passport to him. It is noted the passport was being held
by Brazilian authorities in connection with his Expulsion
proceedings. It is further noted that the passport no_longer_is
usable by MOSS, but that is probably not known to him. (AZERADO
stated that MOSS is believed to be in possession of a station
wagon and may possibly attempt to or already have slipped out
of Brazil by using this vehicle, In such an event, he would
have probably tded to go to Uruguay or Argentina. ZERADO.
stated that every effort is being made to locate MOSS an
that this case is receiving preferred attention

It is noted thataec iz is Ghier f the Federal
Maritime and fir lice Servic n filo Jani ending s close
contacts with other police afenci@s in that country.

~ COVER PAGE B -

SEGRET :

—;.

| NW 68262 Docld:32327800 Page 2


“SECRER

NY92-1108

On 12/31/63, PCI HOWARD KREITSEK advised that
the subject, GE@RGE LEVINE and JOHN KEILLY are partners
in a business which operates from BURNS' Teamster office.
The PCI was unable to furnish the location of this office
nor the nature of the business.

According to the PCI, KEILLY is furnishing BURNS
and LEVINE with funds, as a result of the fiasco in Cuba
in which the informant was involved several years ago.

The PCL further advised that ROCKY GRAZIANO is now
working with ene BILL MARTIN of Detroit, Michigan, in the
production of motion pictures. TONY ADONIS is handling the
unions that try to acquire an interest in this enterprise.

The PCI described. MARTIN as a complete degenerate, who currently
resides at St. Moritz Hetel, New York City. The informant
advised that he saw the subject in Jilly's Restaurant, West

5énd Street, New York City, during November, 1963. At that
time, GRANELLW was accompanied by one FRANKIE (LNU), who

was acting as bodyguard.

PCI advised that he has been told by ROCKY GRAZIANO
‘that BURNS used to work for TONY BENDER.

PCI stated that he has not been bothered by BURNS
or LEVINE for any additional funds for several months. However,
he added that they consider him a "mark", who would be available
sheuld the need arise for such funds.

The aforementioned data was not included in the
details of instant report since this informatien is singular
in nature and the unauthorized disclosure of this information
would possibly tend to compromise. this informant.

An investigation entitled, "UNSUB; Theft ef Carter
Underwear, Akers Motor Transportation Co., Boston, Massachusetts,
9/28 - 10/1/63; TFIS" (NY file 15-31155) has been initiated
relative to the information set out in the details which
indicates the subject may have been instrumental in this crime.

- COVER PAGE C -

-SEGRET-

| Nw 68262. Docta:32327800 Page 3


NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS

LEADS

Identity of Source

NY T-1
AL 3050-PC

NY T-2
NY 4195-Pc

NY T-3

NY 204-¢

NY T-4

PCI DAVID DIAMOND

NY T-5

SA JOSEPH FERRISE, IRS,-

120 Church Street, NYC,

NY T-6
PCI VINCENT SOLLAZZO

ALBANY

subject.

Contacting Agent

SA FREDERICK W, KUHLMAN
SA PAUL G, DURKIN

SA JOSEPH J. MAC FARLANE

SA EUGENE J, HINDES

SA PETER C, CLEMENTE and
SA EUGENE J, HINDES

AT ALBANY, NEW YORK Will maintain contact with
AL 3050-PC for any comments by JOSEPH KAUFMAN relative to his
interview with the NYO concerning his association with the

MIAMI

locate and return

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA Will continue to follow efforts to

- COVER PAGE D -

SEGREF

SS to the United States.

- 68262 Docld:32327800 Page 4
