# docid-32290448

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

• 6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10224

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-1242

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HALL, WENDELL W. JR.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/27/1967

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

LST, BKG INVEST, LCN, ASSOC, REL, TRA, B/F INT, TELCAL,

SURVEILLANCES, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act o

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NV

68262 Date: 09:22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32290448 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

MM 92-88

The hospital is

which leases its land and building for $30,000 per month.

separate non profit organization

The hospital is a 250 bed hospital and its evaluation is

based on a figure of $23,000 per bed. Brusa, Inc. is a

real estate holding company which owns the building and the

15 acres of land at 1475 West 49th Street, Hialeah, Florida

on which the palm Springs General Hospital is located.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is EDWARD E. MORRIT, Miami, Florida (protect

by request).

MM T-2 iS RICHARD VAN BRUMMELEN, Miami, Florida

(protect by request).

- MM T-3 is.

Agent THOMAS LOPEZ, Internal Revenue

Service, Miami, Florida (protect by request).

MM T-4 is LUIS SEGUNDO PEREZ FEBLES, PCI.

MM T-5 is MM 1231-C-TE

MM T-6 iS MM 1219-C

MM T-7 iS JOHN MAPLES, Miami, Florida (protect by

request):

MM T-8 is former, PCI MANUEL MENENDEZ, Miami

Florida (protect by request)

MM T-9 is MM 984-C-TE.

MM T-10 IS SERGIO CASTRO, New York, New York

protect by request)

ISS.

REVIEWED BY STUFK TASK FORCE

: ON:

22k8 dat

Ò RELSAGE IN FÜLL

C*

COVER PAGE

I FELLASE IN PART

BAI DENIAL

W68262 Docld 32290448 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-201 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION-

#Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

1

- U. S. Attorney, Miami,

Florida (Attention:

Departmental Attorney WILLIAM EARLE)

1 - U.

S. Attorney, Tampa, Florida

Office:

WENDELL W. HALL, JR.

GOV 2 7 1967

92-88

Miami, Florida

Bureau File No.:

92-2781

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Subject in Miami,

Florida: 10/19/67,

through 10/21/67,

10/30/67,

through 11/6/67, and 11/13/67,

, through 11/16/67.

Travel of the subject between Miami and Tampa on 11/13/67,

and 11/16/67,

verified. Various subscribers to telephone

numbers tounds the address, book of the subject interviewed.&

Information regarding FRANK RAGANO and NANCY PALA set forth.

Miami source advises that STEFANO ANTHONY RANPAZZO, Miami

LCN member, was a member of the TRAFFICANTE LCN "family"

On 10/30/67, subject met in Miami with JAMES PLUMERI, LON

"CAPO" of the LUCHESE

"family" and with GEORGE JOSEPH

NOBILE, ICN member of the GENOVESE "family"

On 11/1/67;

subJect, RANDALLo and vINCeNT AMATO, accompanied by their

wives, attended the wake for/THOMAS

ALTAMURA, Miami LCN Igure

who had been murdered on 10/31/67, Additional activities

of the subject while in Miami set forth.

ARMED. AND DANGEROUS.

p.-

DETAILS

I PERSONAL HISTORY

/A, RESIDENCE

The subject and his wife JOSEPHINE MARCHESE

TRAFFICANTE continue to maintain their Miami residence at

740 NE 155th Street, Miami, Florida.

92-2781-1242

This document contains

neither recom

ndations nor conclusions of the FBI: It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

NW 68262 Docld:32290448 Page 3

ts contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

947-3727

On October 25, 1967, NORMAN NOBILE,

403 Golden

Beach Drive, Golden Beach, Florida, advised that he had

his telephone number for about 16 years and knew nothing

more about TRAFFICANTE other than what he had read in the

newspaper

Bo

INVESTIGATION REGARDING NANCY PALA

AND FRANK RAGANO

On October: 18, 1967, MM T-3 advised

JEK

The 1022 edition of the "Miami Herald" contains

the following articles

"Rizzo Signs Balloon Note

"S. A. RIZZO has signed a short term 7 per

cent $100,000 balloon mortgage. Lending the

money are SANFORD and MARVIN M. BACON. Secured

by the note are 27.3 acres of RU 4M apartment

land in Saddle Ridge Lakes, RIZZO's new development:

just west of ives estate.A balloon mortgage is a

debt where. the

balance, of the principal becomes due

in full after a short period, in this case in 10

days.

On October 26,

Suite 608,

Ainsley Building, on a daily basis since RAGANo had opened

his Miami office She appears to be acting as secretary

and receptionist in this law office.

= 10

92 228111242

NW 68262 Docid:32290448 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 92-88

On October, 31

51967, MMT-3 advised that on•

October

30, 1967,

he observed a man named "JIMMIE" and a man

named

"GEORGE" engaged in conversation at the bar of Capra's

Italian Restaurant,

84th and Biscayne Boulevard. They were

sitting

at the bar with a number of other unknown Italians.

"GEORGE" was telling "JIMMIE" that he had started to go by

"Jit chat

his house earlier, in the day but had seen an unmarked police:

car sitting near "JIMMIE's"

house.

At About 9:00 PM, SANTO TRAFFICANTE entered the

bar alone and went

to the bar where he sat down with the

two men.:

He conversed with 'GEORGE" and after a few minutes,

"GEORGE" and the others left the bar leaving TRAFFICANTE

and "JIMMIE" at the bar. They then moved to a corner table.

in the restaurant and conversed for about 30-45 minutes. M

"JIMMIES IS JAMES PLUMERI, also known as JINIE DOYLE;

capo in the LUCHest "family" of the LN and prominently

mentioned as a possible replacement as "boss" of the family

since the death of LUCHESE.

PLUMERI resides at 9224 Dickens,

Surfside,

Florida and is subject of Bureau file 92-2984,

New York 92-675,

Miami 92-116

"GEORGE" IS GEORGE JOSEPH NOBILE;

also known as

& GEORGIE: HOOKS,

, a "soldier" in the GENOVESE

"family" of the

LN and long known to be involved in narcotics trafficking.

He is a cousin of FRANKIE DIO, currently serving a long

narcotics conviction. NOBile resides at 01 Joth street,

Surfside,

Florida, and is the subject of Bureau file 92-8998,

New York 92-1413

MIam1 94-1130°

÷26

72-278/-1242

NW 68262 Docld:52290448 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-88

On November 2, 1967, the current Miami city

The owner

1S CARMEN ARGENIO who resides with his wife

MARY C. at 12810 Maple Road, North Miami, Florida:

The records of theMiami office reflected that

CARMEN ARGENIO, born 1903 in Buffalo, New York, owned a

furniture company in Buffalo until 1955. From 1956 until

1959 he sold real estate in Miami for Hamilton Reality.

Since 1959 he has owned the Argenio Furniture Company in

Miami: As of 1962, the Argenio Furniture Company held a

lien on an automobile/ owned by SANDRA RANDAZZO, daughter

of TONY RANDAZZO

On November 7, 1967, MM T-3 advised that on the

evening of November 6, 1967, about 6:30 PM, SANTO TRAFFICANTE

entered Capra's Restaurant,

84th and Biscayne, where he met

FRANK RAGANO and NANCY PALA. After a few minutes, TRAFFICANTE

left the restaurant alone.

On November 7, 1967

MM T-6 advised that to date

TRAFFICANTE had been unable to obtain any financing for

his new Dodge which he was going to bay at Biscayne Dodge.

Prior investigation has reflected that Miami

telephone number 949-7885 was called from the Tampa residence

ot the subject

29

92-278/- 1242

KHN 68262 Docld:32290448 Page 6

---

