# docid-32105632

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

ROCKCOM

178-10004-10386

RECORD SERIES:

ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : A-III (C) INTERVIEW TAPES

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

ROCK

TAPE OF CONVERSATION WITH MC GEORGE BUNDY, APRIL 8, 1975 (W/BELIN)

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/08/1975

OPERATION MONGOOSE

HARVEY, WILLIAM

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

BUNDY, MC GEORGE

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: SOUND RECORDING

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Transcript unmarked, but may contain classified information. See ID# 1781000210357 or

1781000210356 for transcript.

Released under the

John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note].

Pase#:NW 64578

Date: 12-14.2022

NW 64578 Docld:32105632 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Tape: 178-10004-10386

Transcript: 178-10002-10356

MEMORANDUM

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

April 8, 1975

:

The File

: David W. Belin

:

Conference with McGeorge Bundy, April 8, 1975.

Mr. Belin:

This is a memorandum of

a conference with McGeorge

Bundy on April 8,

1975.

Mr. Bundy has refreshed

CO

his recollection following. his

testimony before the Commission ont

April 7 and wishes to make some additions to the record.

MI. Bundy:

You asked me yesterday whether I had any recollection

of whether the word "poison" or something to that

FROM

effect--whether I had any recollection of that kind of activity

or proposal in

relation to the Castro regime and I think I saia

I did not, and

I did not as of yesterday.

But overnight I have

had a vague recollection which I cannot pinpoint in time that

there was discussion that I knew about at some time of a proposal

or scheme or project that did involve poison, and, as I recall

THE GERALD

it, the characteristic that sticks in my memory is the--that

it involved a rather large-scale use of poison and, as I recollect

it, it was never approved. In the first instance on that practical

ground and

I think the second question whether it would have been

approved, if it had been less hairbrained, was never reached.

And this

is; I think,

the way in which proposals of this sort,

which did come from time to time, not just with respect to

assassinations but other proposals under the MONGOOSE scheme,

they were

reviewed in the first instance for practicability

LIBPARY

and I don't--and only then after that for wisdom or political

rightness, and I recall NO proposal for liquidation that ever

got past the first stage to the second.

not there might have

or any other time

a request from the White

executive action capability, which was defined as a general

stand-by capability to carry out assassinations when required.

Do you ever remember any discussions along those lines?

— UNMARKED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

NW 64578 Docld:32105632 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. Bundy: Well, I recall the words "executive

action

capability" more clearly today than I did yesterday,

and I think I said yesterday that they rang some sort of bell.

But I do NOT have any recollection as to when I knew about that

or who requested it or how much was done under it.

I don't

recall having any continuing interest in or information about

Mr. Belin: Do you recall that executive action capability was

in substance discussed as a general stand-by

capability to carry out assassinations at that time--I'm not

saying there was direction to undertake a plan but at least

the development of the stand-by capability?

Mr. Bundy:

I think it was just that--an authorization to have

some kind of stand-by capability for action against

individuals.

Mr. Belin: Now, I'm going to turn to the Summer of 1962. Before

we started this transcribing of your remarks you

indicated that you don't remember any specific plan pertaining to

attempted poisoning of any Cuban leader during 1961, but that you

do remember some discussions that may have developed into this

• area sometime in 1962. Is that accurate?

Mr. Bundy: Well, I think it is perhaps a slightly more precise

way of saying it is that you have described to me

a broad outline of plans as you understand them that existed in

January or February 1961 and I simply have

no recollection of

plans that meet that description.

You don't have one mind to

believe--and

I believe my memory tells me in a more general way

that my knowledge of

a scheme or idea of using poison relates to

the year 1962.

Mr. Belin: Do you remember any discussions at any meeting of the

MONGOOSE group where this might have been discussed?

Either the general plan of possible liquidation or the particular

plan of poison?

Mr. Bundy: I don't have any recollection of where. or how I heard

about the poisoning--a poisoning plan. I know that--

at least I know that I never. knew of any approval of such a plan.

My recollection is the opposite--that it was a hairbrain scheme

that did not receive approval

even on the ground of practicability

as distinct from the ground of what you would make a final de-

cision to go ahead. Now, as to meetings where such a thing might

I have any recollection of--and

it is a refreshed recollection--I would not have known about it

a month ago--is the one which we discussed yesterday on August 10,

1962 and I do NOT have any recollection of what specifically was

said in that meeting.

PHOTOCOPY

NW 64578 Docld:32105632 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Mr. Belin: Do you have any recollection that there was any

direction NOT to undertake any such plans?

Mr. Bundy: I think there was--there was--a general attitude

toward this

matter in which the Agency was permitted

to produce proposals and, although I recall nobody encouraging

them to do

so, that may have happened, and as I said yesterday,

I draw a distinction between considering contingencies of this

sort and actually giving

them approval. That I think is the way

in which the Kennedy Administration approached the matter.

do not think there was a flat, general ban on considering such

possibilities.

Mr. Belin:

Earlier, before we started taping, you said that if

had been

any spedific discussion of that, that

you were not a party to it and that it might have--

MI. Bundy: A discussion of what?

Mr. Belin: of a direction to carry out a plan, that you certainly

FR

were not a party to such a discussion.

Is that what

you said?

Mr. Bundy:

I am absolutely certain that I never knew of or

believed that there was any authorization to go

ahead with an effort to liquidate Castro, or any other Cuban

leader.

Mr. Belin: And I think that you also said that if there would

THE GERALD R.

have been any such discussion and you said you knew

of none, it would have been directly between the President and

the Director of Central Intelligence-

FORD

Mr. Bundy:

THAT's an inference. I don't know where else--who

else--would have sought the authority of the Agency

or who else could have given it from the White House.

LIBPARY

Mr. Belin: Is there anything else that you want to add so far

as clarifying or correcting your testimony of.

April 7 before the Commission?

You asked me yesterday whether I had met Mr. William

Harvey--I think 'that's his name--

Mr. Bundy:

Mr. Belin:

Mr. Bundy:

--and I said I recollected the name and that I

thought I had seen him in large meetings.

I can check

my appointment calendar wnich is the only document I

have of

record from my Washington days and see whether I met him ir

smaller meetings or alone if

that would be helpful to you.

NW 64578 Docld:32105632 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Mr: Belin:

It would. I'd like to have you do it, please.

Mr. Bundy: Fine.

Mr. Belin:

OK.

Well, thank you very much.

(END OF TAPE)

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

NW 64578 Docld:32105632 Page 5

---

