JFK Assassination System Date: 4/29/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90038-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-4930-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: — 10/28/1964
PAGES: 19

SUBJECTS :
JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
GLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

Records Collection Act off

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Casel:NwW

v9. 26
NW 68262 Docld:32325851 Page 1


2.

NN pee
DL 92-292
DALLAS .
; AT DALLAS, TEXAS,. Will maintain contact. with
confidential SOUFGSS, Tnformants, and neighborhood sources

for any information concerning DOLAN's travels into and out
of Dallas,

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE: 3

Presently being utilized are. the following informants,
who are believed to be in.a position to furnish information
regarding subject's activities and associates:

DL'292C

DL 170-C :
DL 146-c ‘
DL 185-C-TE

DL 181-C=TE

DL 197-C

PCL MICHAEL. LESCHETSKO

DL 208-PC

PCI WILLIAM SOLTES

IDENTITY OF. INFORMANTS:

The following informants have all. furnished reliable
information in the past and careful consideration has been given
to 6ach source concealed, T symbols were utilized in this report
only in those tiatnmadad where the identity of the source must be
concealed,’

DL T-1 is DL 185-C-TE, contacted by SA Si eceamath M. BARRETT

DL To2 is DL 170eC

DL, T-3 is PCI MICHAEL LESCHETSKO nar

DL T+4 is MARIE HOLLEBEKE, neighborhood source” :

DL T-5 is GENE EVANS, Deputy Circuit Clerk, Gulfport,
Mississippi. .Contacted by SA WILLIAM F,. DUKES,
9/11/64, and who requested his identity be kept
confidential,

~ Cok
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32325851 Page 2
