JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90091-10091
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —_166-636-23
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 01/20/1967
> PAGES: 18
SUBJECTS :
RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS,
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 02/10/1999.
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS
COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32330660 Page 1


r S
eee eater)
DL 166-102

DALLAS Fi
AT IRVING TEXAS./ Will ascertain the subscriber to
telephone number "89-4240 and conduct appropriate investigation
when determined. a.

2... Will maintain contact with informants concerning
subject's current activities.

3. Will follow and report Federal prosecution of
subject under IRS charge.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted the investigative period of this report
exceeds the date of the last report. This was due to the
fact results were not received in time for inclusion in
referenced report. :

The San Antonio Office advised that a current
investigation is being conducted to determine if WILLIAM
NOBLE BATES has violated any gambling statutes, San Antonio
file on BATES being 165-98, Dallas file 165-39.

The San Francisco Office advised that on 12/20/66,
CS SF 50-X stated telephone number 351-5785 is listed to
EDWARD RUTH, 14127 Maracaibo Street, San Leandro, California.
RUTH is an électronics instructor for the Navy at Treasure
Island. SF 2662-C, who is acquainted with individuals in the
gambling element of the East Bay area advised that RUTH is
unknown to him,

The El Paso Office reported that DUANE THOMPSON ,
Assistant Manager, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,
Midland, Texas, advised SA JOHN J, GORMAN on November 1,
1966, that telephone number MU. 2-1480 is an unlisted number.
He said the present subscriber to that number began service on
6/21/66, and their files do not reflect the identity of the
subscriber who had that number on 5/13/66. On 10/21/66,

“Bk
Cover Page

NW 68486 Docld:32330660 Page 2



DL 166-102

records of the Mountain States Telephone Company, as furnished
by NEIL U, HORSTMANN, Manager, showed El Paso telephone number
772-2090 as listed to F, 0, SENTER, 7165 Alameda, El Paso.
SENTER has had service since October, 1953, is self-employed,
retired and operates a trailer sales lot.

By letter dated 12/28/66, the San Antonio Office
furnished the following information:

On 12/14/66, MILTON DEE "DUCK" MALLARD, Austin,
Texas, a PCI of the San Antonio Division, advised he is
acquainted with subject as RB, D. MATTHEWS and said that
about six months ago subject was charged in Dallas with
booking without a Federal Wagering Stamp.. He advised that
subject makes a few bets with him and occasionally calls him
to get information concerning a “hot team." He said subject
also inquires of the line of him.

MALLARD advised also that in the past few months
he has called the subject, and these calls primarily were with
regard to a "heist" of MALLARD's poker game in Austin several
months ago. He advised that subject was attempting to assist
him in determining the identities of the perpetrators of the
heist.

MALLARD advised that he has known subject:only for
about one year; however, he is acquainted with people who have
known the subject for many years, He said that though the
subject has an awful record in that. he has had many arrests
including, to P€I's understanding, several for murder, the
subject is considered an honorable person among the gamblers.
MALLARD advised that this meant that he would not welsh on a
bet and that he was good pay.

7 San Antonio further advised that PCI operates a
book in Austin, Texas, and utilizes phone numbers WA 6-1713,
WA 6-4410, and WA 6-4411.

MALLARD advised that he had no knowledge of any
Federal violations on the part of the subject in his gambling
activities.

Cn
Cover Page

NW 68486 Docld:32330660 Page 3



DL 166-102

On 11/25/66, DL 208-C advised SA JOHN K, EGAN
that MATTHEWS and EDDY TOM GREEN, Dallas dice hustler-
gambler, were at the Skyknight Club (Maple Street) Dallas,
on the night of 11/24/66, and that from all indications
MATTHEWS is doing nothing except run the club. CI advised
that things are too hot now and that MATTHEWS is too well
known to get away with anything.

-D*-
Cover Page

5

NW 68486 Docld:32330660 Page 4
