# docid-32331347

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10293

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-253

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/23/1969

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

53252 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32331347 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTINUED

called was not known to have any prior record or connection

with questionable individuals, was omitted but will be

retained in this file and indexed for future reference.

Those numbers which had already been identified through

previous reported investigation were not reinvestigated.

Periodic spot checks since August through the rest

of the investigative period at subject's residence, 40

Central Park South, NYC, have been negative.

Past information reported herein on JACK LIFSITZ

was obtaind from

Philadelphia reportentitled "ANGELO BRUNO;

AR" dated 6/28/61.

Information on HARRY RICCOBENE was obtained from

Philadelphia reportentitled

"HARRY RICCOBENE; AR; (Bufile

92-4164) dated 4/30/68.

On 10/30/09, NY 5642-PC advised that VARIETTA TREE,

a former US representative to the UN, cust sometime

within the last six months, as a result of shopping habits

became in debt. Not wanting to advise her husband of this

situation, she

approached JILLY RIZZO, owner of Jilly's,

West 52nd Street, NYC, for a possible source of funds.

RIZZO

"steered her" to unknown shylocks from whom TREE borrowed

$1,000 at a usurious rate of interest.

In some unknown manner, TREE made contact with

CHARLES TOURINE, who interceded on her behalf with JILLY

RIZZO.

RIZZO contacted the shylocks with whom TREE had been

involved and resolved the matter. TREE was subsequently

interviewed by Bureau Agents and

would furnish no information

concerning this matter.

on 12/1/69, NY 5837-C-TE advised he has had several

discussions with CHARLIE THE BLADE TOURINE.

TOURINE has asked

NY 5837-C-TE to lend out shylock money for him since he claims

he cannot physically get around to take care of his customers.

He told NY 5837-C-TE that he wants two points and he (NY 5837-C-TE)

can keep anything above two points in shylock loans.

The

informant told TOURINE that since he is a three time loser he

cannot afford to be put in a position where a shylock victim

would make a complaint about him and it was agreed NY 5837-C-TE

would attempt to steer customers to TOURINE.

- B-

COVER PAGE

MRip - 18903

NW 68262 Docld:32331347 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTINUED

On 11/25/69, NY 5837-C-TE advised that he had been

to CHARLIE TOURINE's apartment on the previous date located

at 40 Central Park South, Apartment 10F. He said that he knows

CHARLIE THE BLADE for many years from the New Jersey area.

He said that while he was in the apartment, TOURINE had three

phones which were constantly ringing and NY 5837-C-TE is

under the impression that TOURINE conducts much of his illegal

activity over these phones.

TOURINE proposed that NY 5837-C-TE

shylock for him and he would give the informant money anc

would expect two points vig on the money he furnished. He said

NY 5837-C-TE could keep everything over two points.

TOURINE told NY 5837-C-TE that his son is coming

out of jail sometime in January, 1970.

While NY 5837-C-TE

was in the apartment, TOURINE spoke to TONY BOY (ANTHONY

BOIORDO) on the telephone and

engaged in a social conversation

with him.

The above information from NY 5837-C-TE is being

put in the administrative section of this report due to the

ease with which he could be identified from this

information.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

CSWF - 1499 - C

Contacted By

SA JAMES J. GAFFNEY

WFO

NY T-2

PCI

ELIZABETH GAY LOVELAND

NY T-3

CSLA 4178-5

NY T-4

NY 6439-C-TE

SA PHILLIP HARKER

WFO

Los Angeles Office

SA JOHN C. MC GINLEY

- C

COVER PAGE

code logea

NW 68262 Docld:32331347 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-851

INFORMANTS CONTINUED

Identity of source

NY T-5

NY 3610-C-TE

NY T-6

NY 5837-C-TE

NY T-7

ANN MC NAMUS

FORMER PCI

LEAD

Contacted By

SA MICHAEL G. POTKONJAK

SA EUGENE F. FITZPATRICK

SA JOHN W. GILL, JR.

NEW YORK

report activite on uN YoRK.

Will closely follow and

- D*

-

COVER PAGE

SO -1058?

NW 68262 Docld:32331347 Page 4

---

