AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

vol

JFK Assassination System.
Identification Form
Agency Information
HSCA
180-10106-10011
NUMBERED FILES
014138
Document Information
HSCA
STEELE, CHARLES
04/13/1978

1

OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES,

SUMMARY
Unclassified
3

Redact
01/31/1996

Box 251.

NW 68261 Docid:32261442 Page 1 :

mn Records Collection Act off

late), Case NW



4413s

: INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
l. Identifying Information: . - ;

wane le pate LG

_ Address A/F fated. KGa ie Place vine ipenareaee ea
. City/stateche Péhews Ta gee eset ees sat

Date of “pixth s- x5 Mors 77. :
: Social Security) ecto ein Spouse ft
; EEE EEE c eee ee eC ea et - children
2. Physical Description: | : PEEP rteei a aareaeeey
Height Ul Vii le x ° Colox Byes___~ gai
| Weight : speaeeereeen: ; ’, Special Characteristics _
Ethnic Group _ : Cusnsueaue

3. Personal History:

a. Present pnployment 1: Z7Ie) Let 8: :aURGUBS Ee EEEREEE!
Address /JOS Laatee - EE das pe iH meee

. Telephone

“b, Crdminal Record ~
1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative (s): 3: Name

“ Radress

b. Area frequented:
c. Remarks:

Investi _ eh lteders Es Le . |
g Att A eet Oy NaTRReni

Date

NW 68261 Docld:32261442 Page 2 : Form #4-B


7 penneee |

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

wame Charles Steele, Jr. | Date 4-13-78 Time 7 p.m.
Address 2119 Selma st. Place Residence
New Orleans, LA a UNREAEER no a

interviews | (synopsis) .

knowledge, of “EHO: pride to” pasaing out léaflets on can

“He: states he | was) inside of unemployment’ office on,

cana Street ‘when he was ‘approached by” LHO and was. .
offered $5. 00 to pass out leaflets. He accepted the - Cac
offer and after, passing ont the first ‘batch, read the . -
leaflets, stopped, collected his money and left. the subject’
said he didn't know ‘the second naie who was assisting,--
describes him as, white male, 20, ‘ight brown hair, medium -
height and build, and brown eyes. The subject refuses to
answer when asked ‘af he saw LO again. 7 : :

Subject states he was not a member of any organiza-. SPeERs
tion during this period. He identified photos #5, Clay shaw”
and 457, _LHO. . The photo book ‘supplied by” the. committee.
is numbered in sequential order from 1-110 with #72/73
missing. 7 :

Subject requests copy of his Warren Commission

testimony.
Interviewer. :
: (Signature)
William ‘Brown -
(Name)
Date Tranecrthed_4/21/78"* by cs

Fie (Ini

NW 68261 Docld:32261442 Page 3

