# docid-34530144

## Page 1

Date

Page

08/24/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CSF/INSCOM

RECORD NUMBER

:194-10006-10197

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE

755

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : TADICH, DMITRI J

TO: CHIEF,

TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]

DATE: 07/28/67

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

INDUCTION

SECURITY

COMMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED

WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED

CORRESPONDENCE OR MATERIAL. INCLOSURE NO INCLUDED.

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

E4954 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34530144 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

USAPSG (23 May 67)

SUBJECT:

SCHEER,

Robert,

SSN -EK

Act 5 (9) (21(D)

DPOB:

4 April 1936, Bronx, New York

FROM: ACSI

TO: Chief, OPO

ATTN: EPD-EPPA

DATE: 28 JUL 1967 CMT 3

M. C. Sneeringer/jmm/6139

1. Case concerning SUBJECT is forwarded for appropriate action.

2.

The Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence adheres to his determination,

as stated in Comment Number 1, that induction of SUBJECT into military service is

on one sege Advocate Generoses of the prop securite a tons ver, the deterination

for the reason stated in Comment Number 2, precludes rejection of SUBJECT for

security reasons under present policy.

3. In the event it is determined that SUBJECT is declared acceptable for

induction, recommend that appropriate personnel records be annotated to preclude

HIS receiving access to classified information.

4. Request that the file be returned through the Director of Security,

Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, to the Chief, United States Army

Personnel Security Group, Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219, upon completion of

your action.

FOR THE ASSISTANT. CHIEF OF SIAFE FOR INTELLIGENCE

1 Incl

DossierL

JFK Act 5 (q) (2) (D)

re SUBJECT (4 volumes)

DMITRI

Colonel, GS

Chief, Personnel Security

Division

755

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

DO BE REGRADED UNCLASSIPIRN 112 RUPARATED

FRON CLASSIFIRD COREESHOEL'SACE ES MATERIAL.

this docunent will thon be uarked:

FOR OBFIQIAL USE CHLY

SECRET

NW 64954 Docld:34530144 Page 2

---

