# docid-32336119

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

5457A Date: 12-14-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90132-10023

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 100-71274-26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/14/1949

6

JACK RUBENSTEIN

GEORGE MORRIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32336119 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 100-13203

The "Daily Worker" for June 6, 1947 stated that the subject would

discuss, "Your Stake in Labor's Battle With the Irusts", on Saturday at the

Progressive Forum, 13 Astor Place, New York City.

Confidential Informant ND-408 furnished a letter from the Mosholu-

Kingsbridge Section of the Communist Party, dated March 3, 1947, stating that

the subject would be a speaker at the Sunday Forum at their headquarters at

3092 Hull Avenue, Bronx on March 23, 1947.:

An item in the "Daily Worker" on September 6, 1947 states that

the subject, the Labor Editor of the "Daily Worker'' was covering the CIO

New York State Convention at Saratoga Springs and would tour America's

largest industrial cities including Schenectady, Buffalo, Detroit, Flint,

Toledo, Cleveland, Youngstown, Pittsburgh and Boston, to find out about

the problems facing American workers.

Confidential Informan't I-l advised on August 29, 1947, that the

subject was requested to speak on the Taft-Hartley Bill for the IWo Lodge

102 at 1407 Wilkins Avenue, Bronx, on September 5, 1947.

On December 4, 1947, Confidential Informant I-2 stated that the

subject attended the Lenin School in Russia in 1928 under the name MORRIS

YUSEM.

The informant said he received this information from JACkBUBINSTEIN,

Vice-President, CIO Textile Workers Union.

Washington Field Confidential Informant S-117, advised that Passport

500110 was issued on February 24, 1928 to MORRIS YUSEM, born at Raehni, Russia,

April 6, 1903. His father, JOSEPHYAUSEM was born in Russia and naturalized

at the Eastern District Court of Pennsylvania on December 6, 1921. The

passport authorized travel to Germany, France, England, and Italy for six

months for travel purposes.

Subject stated he was a garment worker, residence

135 East 18th Street, New York City. On May 10, 1929, he applied for another

passport for the purpose of visiting Russia to visit relatives and introduce

modern methods of cutting in the clothing industry and he said there was a

probability that he would stay in Russia.

Passport 43892 was issued to him

on May 11, 1929, and he listed his residence at this time as,

20 West 126th

Street, New York City.

A weekly payroll and time sheet book listing 58 names and signatures

of "Daily Worker" employees was furnished by Confidential Informant I-1 on

April 2, 1948. The subject's name and signature, GEORGE MORRIS, appears in.

this book which is being retained in the New York files.

-2 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336119 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 100-13203

Confidential Informant ND-419 furnished a list of individuals

delegated as members of the various.

Santee to perimen me Conventio

f the Brooklyn Communist Party. GEORGE MORRIS of the Brighton Sectio

was listed as a member of the Resolutions Committee.

The list,

which was

legally obtained by the informant, is being retained in the New York file.

Ine "Daily Worker" of June 28, 1948, stated that GEORGE MORRIS spoke on

behalf of the "Daily Worker" at. the Brooklyn Communist Party Convention.

Confidential Informant I-3 furnished a signed statement to

SA LiON O. PRioR at the Miami Office on April 24, 1948, stating that he-

knew GEORGE MORRIS under his name of MORRIS YUSEM from 1927 to 1930

when he was a member of the Young Communist League. This informant stated

that MORRIS joined the "Daily Worker" staff and has become one 'of the

Party's best authorities on Labor.

The informant said he had talked with

the subject in September, 1946.

The "Daily Worker" for September 17, 1948, announced that the

subject would be a speaker on "Who's Splitting

the Labor Movement", on

September 19, 1948 at the Jefferson School Forum, New York City.

The subject is announced as a speaker at the Brooklyn Press.

Conference in the "Daily Worker" dated December 9, 1948.

A review of copies of the "Daily Worker" revealed that the

subject's name appeared as the author of a weekly column entitled "Views

on Labor News" from Narch 12, 1947 to Octöber I4, 1947. Since then his

name has appeared as the author of a weekly column entitled, "The World

of Labor", including the issue of January 17, 1949. He has, also appeared

as author of numerous topical features during this period ard has .

contributed features for the monthly magazine "political Affairs" formerly

known as "The Communist". His articles appear in the magazine issues

dated January, 1946; March, 1947, and August, 1948. All of the aforementioned

writings are frankly pro-Communistic.

- P

E N

D

I NG -

- 3 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336119 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 100-13203

CONFIDENTIAL, INFORMANTS

The Confidential Informants mentioned in thereport of

SA NAURICE E. MURPHY, dated at New Tork, April 14, 1949,

Mare as

follows:

I-1

T-2

T-3

NY ND- 4267(

NELSON FRANK,

reporter "New York World Telegram"

PAUL MICHAPS COUCH, Miami Office informant

NW 64578 Docld:32336119 Page 4

---

