# docid-32325861

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90038-10050

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-4930-44

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: 1

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE : 05/24/1968

PAGES :

14

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: RPT

Seleased under the John F. Kennedy

ssassination Records Collection Act c

992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NV

58252 Date: 09:22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32325861 Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

DL 92-292

AT DENVER, COLORADO. Will advise of any further

information developed as to whereabouts of DOLAN as developed

through DN 341-TE and through coverage on ROBERT ELMER WOOLVERTON.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS

LOUISIANA. Will check with criminal

informants in the New Orleans area to determine whether anyone

in that area has seen DOLAN or is aware of his whereabouts.

In this regard note information furnished by DN 341-C-TE.

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

1. Will maintain contact with infor-

mants and Intelligence Unit, Dallas PD, for any information as

to DOLAN's current whereabouts.

2.

Will spot check current residence of Mrs. DOLAN;

4007 Druid Hills Drive, Apt. 104, telephone FE 9-6271, to

determine if subject has appeared there and at the appropriate

time will attempt to interview Mrs. DOLAN who allegedly is now

divorced from subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Under date of 4/16/68, the Denver Office furnished

the following information:

DN 341-C-TE advised on 2/19/68, that Denver hood-

lum ROBERT ELMER WOOLVERTON and ANTHONY PAULDINO were involved

in a jewelry swindle in New Orleans, Lousiana, in January

1968, and that the victim in this swindle turned out to be a

close associate of Kansas City top hoodlum CARL ANGELO DE LUNA

and also associate or friend of New Orleans top hoodlum CARLOS

MARCELLO. Informant stated when victim, who has not been

identified,, learned that he had been swindled, he immediately:

contacted DE LUNA in Kansas City and his hoodlum associate

in New Orleans, and as a result, PAULDINO was held as a cap-

tive in New Orleans and threatened to be killed until he and

WOOLVERTON came up with the

7$5,000 that they swindled the

_ B -

COVER PAGE

VO

NW 68262 Docld:32325861 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-292

victim out of plus another $5,000 for all the trouble they had

caused.

As previously reported, PAULDINO's wife, a Denver

stripper,

SHILO WILLIAMS left Denver by plane at the appro-

priate time in January, with a large amount of

money, in an

effort to free PAULDINO, her husband, who was being kept cap-

tive by "The Mafia."

DN 341-C-TE reported on 2/23/68, that Dallas

hoodlum. JAMES DOLAN set up at the victim in New Orleans for

PAULDINO and WOOLVERTON, and reportedly checked him out

before giving PAULDINO and WOOLVERTON the O.K. to swindle

him.

This source said, when DOLAN learned of what happened

to PAULDINO in New Orleans, DOLAN became alarmed and made

sure that he always had a weapon on his person inasmuch

as he thought possibly

he could, in the near future, get

a visit from New Orleans or Kansas City hoodlums.

This source, who is in an extremely sensitive

position, advised that IDOLAN has taught WOOLVERTON, and

other Denver hoodlums, how to operate most of the

swindles they have been involved in and also has caused

them to rob other gamblers who reportedly will never

report the robbery to police because of their own illegal

activities.

This

source stated that approximately two or

three months ago, he saw DOLAN with WOOLVERTON in Denver,

but had no information as to DOLAN's whereabouts other than

he understood he was residing in the Dallas area.

ROBERT WOOLVERTON, Who is DOLAN's closest

associate in Denver, recently was arrested along with Denver

hoodlum PAULDINO in February, 1968, for the armed robbery

of one LESLY COHEN, of Las Vegas, Nevada, a known gambler,

on 1/15/68.

They both are waiting trial on

this matter

but continue to be observed in the Denver area where

both have residences.

-C -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32325861 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 92-292

DL T-I is former confidential neighborhood source

MARIE HOLLEBECK, contacted

on 1/25/68, by SAI

BARDWELL D.

ODUM.

- D*

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32325861 Page 4

---

