# docid-32309255

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10042

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2824-SEE COMMENTS

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: NEWSOM, MILTON L.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

DATE: 10/18/1962

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

JFC, INTV, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, TELCAL, EMP, FISUR,

TOLL CALLS, LCN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

92-2824-97,98,99,100,101,102, INC 5 RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedp

ssassination Records Collection Act o

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

00404 late: 04-24-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 1

---

## Page 2

0-1-591

* FÉDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO,

DATE

7/28/64

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/30 - 7/27/64

AR

REFERENCE: Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, Dallas, 1/31/64.

- p* -

TYPED BY

jt

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ADMINISTRATIVE

with CIVELLO or know of his activities were contacted

The following list of informants who are acqylanted

advised that they have no information to indicate that CIVELLO

is active with the criminal element in the Dallas area:

DL 181-C-TE - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 185-C-TE - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 140-C - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 170-€ - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-2824)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2824-102

3 AUG

3

'1964

REG-42

I - USA, Ft. Worth

010214

2 - Dallas (92-36)?be0lvr

MATELOVE

EX 105

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

31 lati

NOTATIONS

1:k16

N

1-Dept 816/64

1: 6

]

AGENCY--

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -

HOW FWD.

6 3 AUG 1 1 1964

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 2

US. GUIcKNNENT PRIATIN

18-76324-1

---

## Page 3

DL 92-36

DL 197-C - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 199-PC - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 208-PC - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

PCI MICHAEL LES'CHESKO - contacted by SAS IVAN

D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

POX JANIS SALES - coutacted by SA IVAN D. LIE.

In addition to the above contacts, an All Agents

Memo dated 6/30/64, requested that Agents of the Dallas

Division contact logical intormants and sources to attempt

to ascertain if CIVELLO is known to be active within the

criminal element.. No information was developed through

these contacts to indicate that CIVELLO was presently

active with the criminal element.

UACB, this matter is being placed in a pending

inactive status for a period of six months.

This case

will be reactivated on 11/28/64, for the submission of

a report to the Bureau concerning CIVELLO by 12/28/64.

B*

COVER PAGE

C0.10NG

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 92-36

None of the informants listed below could not

furnish any information which would indicate CIVELLO

is active in the criminal element in the Dallas area

or in other cities:

DI 181-C, contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE

and ROBERT M: BARRETT;

DL 185-C-TE, contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE;

and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DI 170-C, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT;

PCI PHILLIP STEIN, contacted by SAS IVAN D.

LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

PCI MICHAEL LETCHESKO, contacted by SAS IVAN

D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE, contacted

by SAS IVAN D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

'Section, IRs, contacted by SA IVAN D. LEE.

The Los Angeles informant mentioned in the

details of this report is LA 4448-C-TE.

On 1/14/63, CIVELLO was contacted by SAS

IVAN D. LEE and JOHN T. MC MURRER concerning his

possible acquaintance with JACK RUBY, subject in Dallas

major case file 44-1639. CIVELLO advised at that time

he was not well acquainted with RUBY and knew nothing

of his background or his activities inthe Dallas area

during the recent years.

UACB, this investigation is being placed in a

pending-inactive status for a

period of six

months

This case will be reactivated on July 30, 1964.

B*.

COVER PAGE

908: 100r

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (Rev 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVLSTIGATION

RÉPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

JOSEPH FRANCIS

CIVELLO, aka

DATE

7/3/63

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/3-28/63

AR

1:01

TYPED BY

s1

REFERENCE:

Dallas report of SA MILTON L. NEWSOM, 1/28/63.

C

ADMINISTRATIVE:

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following is a list of informants utilized in'

the following of the activities of CIVELLO and his associates

in the Dallas Division:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL-140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

DL-182-PC and DL-185-PC, contacted by SAS ROBERT M.

BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE.

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE contacted by

SAS ROBERT M. BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE.

Confidential sourceKENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

Unit, IRS, contacted by SA IVAN D. LED.

MY IN CHARGE

ECIAL AGENT

- Bureau (92-2824)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-28241

100.

REC- 26

1 - USA, Fort Worth

1 - Dallas (92-36)

Dinan

B JUL 8 1963

VEGEIN.

LILLIAE

AGENCY-

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPOR#

Deat IccorD

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -_.

1ist

HOW FWD.

BY

6 OJUL 2 2 1963

108 Pr. F

U.S. GOVERNMENT.PRINTING OFFICE

10-76324-1

grid ivia

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 92-36

r..

The following is a list of informants being

utilized

in the following of the activities of CIVELLO and his

asso-

ciates in the Dallas division:

GRIFFIN.

DL-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL-122-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT :

DL-140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

PCI WYNNE H. MILLER contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

PCI BENNIE H. BICKERS contacted by SA WILL HAYDEN

PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI conacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential

Source ED BUTLER contacted by SA MILTON L.

NEWSOM.

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE contacted by SA

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential Source ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, Special Agent,

IRS, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence Unit,

IRS, contacted by SAS MILTON L. NEWSOM and ROBERT M. BARRETT.

UACB, this investigation is being placed in a pending

inactive status for a period of

six months.

The case will be

reactivated on 6/1/63 and report submitted thereafter.

B*

Cover

Page

918-19919

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL. 92-36

LEADS

EL PASO, HOUSTON, AND OKLAHOMA CITY DIVISIONS

Report results of investigation requested in rerep.

DALLAS DIVISION

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will maintain contact with

sources relative to

current activities of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO.

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following is a list of informants being

utilized in following the activities of CIVELLO and his

associates in the Dallas Division:

DI-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRET!•

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL-122-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT®

DI-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT:

DI 140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

PCI. WYNNE H. MILLER contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

PCI BENNIE H. BICKERS contacted by SA WILL HAYDEN GRIFFIN.

PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential Source

ED BUTLER contacted by SA MILTON L.

NEWSOM

Confidential Source JEROME I. CRANE contacted by SA

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential Source ROBERT L, ALBRITTEN, Special

Agent, IRS, contacted by

SA MILTON L. NEWSON.

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

Unit,

IRS, contacted by SA's MILTON L. Newsow

and

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DI T-1 Is DI 105-C, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

T-2 is DL-80-C, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

T-3 1s PCI WYNNE H. MILLER, contacted by SA

MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL T-4 1s DI-129 C, contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

- Be

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DL 92-36.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Informant Coverage

The following is a list of inormants being

utilized in following the

activities

of CIVELLO and his

associates in the Dallas Division:

DL-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON I. NEWSOM.

DL-122-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

DL-140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

PCI WYNNE H. MILLER contacted by SA MILTON L. NewsOn.

BENNIE H. BICKERS Contacted by SA WILL HAYDEN

GRIFF IN •

PCL

JOSEPH N. FERRARI contacted by SA ROBERT M.

BARRETT.

Confidential Source ED BUTLER Contacted by SA

MILTON I. NEWSOM.

Confidential Source JEROME I. CRANE COntaCted by

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT®

Confidential Source ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, Special

Agent, IRS, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

Unit,

IRS, contacted by SAs MILTON I. NEWSON

and

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Identity of Informants

DL T-1

• is DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON I. NEWSOM.

DL T-2

is PCI WYNNE H. MILLER,

Dallas, Texas COn-

tacted

by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL T-3 is

DL-80-C contacted by SA MILTON I. NEWSOM.

DL I'-A iS PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI COntacted by SA

DI

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

T-5 is DL-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL

• T-6 is PCI JAMES CLEVELAND WALLACE contacted by

SA MILTON L. NEWSON.

REVIEWED BY

BUJFK TASK FORGE

ON

7.1-98 lak

W" CASE IN FULL

/ EASE IN PART

LI TOTAL DENIAL

D

Cover Page

-91

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 8

---

## Page 9

DL 92-36

DL T-? iS ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, IRS, Intelligence

Unit, Dallas, Texas who requested his identity

be kept confidential.

DL T-8 iS PCI GEORGE FUQUA, Dallas, Texas contacted

by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

This investigation was placed in a pending

inactive status on 3/23/62 and was reactivated on 9/1/62.

Regular contacts were maintained with informants and

sources concerning CIVELLO's activities during that time.

In all gambling investigations conducted by the dallas

Office, Agents have remained alert for any indication of

CIVELLO being involved in gambling activities or other

illegal activities.: All Agents have been alerted to the

Bureau's interest in CIVELLO®

Leads set forth above are for the purpose of

mation concerning him.

Offices receiving this report are requested to

thoroughly pursue

all information developed

concerning

CIVELLO, during requested investigation, and set out

apropriate leads upon receipt of same.

MI. JACOB TANZER, who identified himselt as a

Justice Department Attorney, personally contacted the Dallas

Office on May 16, 1962 and made arrangements to discuss

the CIVELLO case with SA MILTON L. NEWSOM On MAY 17, 1962.

The Bureau was requested to advise concerning. TANZER'S

MaX 1: 1962.

status with the Department and furnish specific instructions

concerning the contact by TANZER.

The Bureau advised on May 16, 1962 that TANZER'S

position with the Department had been verified.

It. was

pointed out that it is usually the custom of the Department

to inform the Bureau of the presence of a Departmental

Attorney in a field division.

In this instance the

Department had not advised the Bureau. The Bureau stated

Cover Page

NW 68262 Docld:32309255 Page 9

---

