NW 68261

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

Sane 992 (44 USC 2107 Note),
‘asett:NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10334
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 13

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 9

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32243300 Page 1


oe oe
eof Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10068-10334

RECORDS SERIES
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE :

DATE : 05/16/77

PAGES: 16
SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DINNEEN, EILEEN G.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

; COMMENTS :
Box. #:1.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32243300 Page 2


LOUIE STOKES, O10, CHAIRMAN on
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L, DEVINE, O#10 ao

Select Committee on Assassinations
G.H. House of Representatives

3969 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 21, 1978

(202) 225-4624

Hohorable Frank Thompson, Jr.
Chairman

Committee on House Administration,
U.S.House of Representatives

1978, the amoul hs raised in/both instances to
» 1978, shi trned to ]-time status to

wagAdulyNapproved, through
sWasndt infprmed. Consequently,
to ipcrease her salary.

‘am now enclosimMNg payroll aothorigzation form to correct this
error by increasing her jae per\ amount of $16,100.00.

_T woul depyacgate p yng this new authorization so that

QUIS STOKES
Chairman

LS:th

h

W 68261
locid:32243300 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION: FOR!

(Please Use Typewriter:
or Ballpoint Pen)

To: the:Clerk ofthe House-of Representatives:

\shereby authorize the following payroll. action:

‘e U.S. HOUSE’ OF REPRESENTATIVES (_)
Washington, D.C. 20515.

US! GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1977—O-93-027;

(Any erasures, corrections, or-changes
on this form must: be initialed by: the
authorizing official:)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Pate
Z

Eileen G. Dinneen

Employes Social Security Number

} | Gea

mmittee/Subcommittee 2

_ Employing: Office. or

Assassinations

(If type of action is an: Appointment, Salary AX

fomplete: appropriate: information below.)

Gross Annual. Salary*

Hy Position Title

$16,100.00

* employee. service annuitant (includes U.S. House of RepreseRg
plus the: salary:received from the employing office.

(If Committee: Employee; complete appropriate item:bel

2.,: Special (lnyestigative staff-of Standing G
3: Oi Joint. Committee.

be approved: by the Committee on. House Administration.

APPROVED:

1¢ gross annual salary shown stiould include the annuity received by the employee

SNect Committee: Authority—-H. Res..956 of 5th congress.

‘Tye ar pring nome of Autho NY

Chairman

Office. of Finance. use only::
Office Code

Monthly Annuity §.
NT -

IDocld:32243300 Pageyhicinal Te Ciennnn Abfing (Ene nfhininl cece nd £cbdee)

(Revised: August 1, 1977)



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION.

-, (Please Use Typewriter.’
or Ballpoint Pen)

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE: e 4
Washington,DC 20815: simesen au nie

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) I ; Effective Date qo

Elleea S. Dinnesn | December 1, 1978 \
Employee Social Security Number | ~ Type of Action 4
a
| CO Appointment 4
& Salary Adjustment 3
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee - | O Title Change |
Oi Termination (At close of business on-effective date) 4
Assazainations T Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending 4
close of business... i] 28
4 ‘Specify Date F |
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or. Title Change, complete appropriate.information below.) - + 4
' Position Title Gross Annual Salary* 4
$16,100.00 a
| |
‘1 lf emoloyee is a-cvl service annuitant (includes U.S. House-of Representatives) the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
‘plus the salary received from the employing office. q

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) aoe

1..O Standing Committee: Staff—O1 Clerical or [1: Professional. = . a \
2. :E) Special (Investigative staff of Standing. Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res:225 - of 25¢2congress. q \
3. 2 Joint Committee. |
. 4
(If Employee of ani Officer of the House, complete item below.) | ies
4
Position Number___.-- If applicable, Level: ______.. Step__ ey

fe

(Type or print tame and fitle of above

| All appointments and salary adjustments. for employees under. the. House Classification Act and-for Committee em> -
. ployees,-except those of. the Committee on:Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget; and. the Joint Committees; ‘must
be. approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._

Office of Finance use only:

W 68261
locid:32243300 Page 5



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. -HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

‘on this form must be initialed by the
Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

' hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Eileen G. Dinneen 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

Ey C0 Appointment

C1 Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change

& Termination (At close of business on effective date)
CO Leave without pay (Begit

jing with effective date above and e

Assassinations

close of business. _

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

LL Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

{If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

=
\
1. D1 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. \
2.70) Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.2"©._of 228 Congress \
3. 0 Joint Committee. . 7 4
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) cates
a
Position Number... If applicable, Level____-_ =. Step_____. :
|. certify that this authorization is ‘not. in- violation. of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of
relatives.
January 2 79 : LOUIS STOKES
Date. y
All. appointments and salary adjustments for-employees under the House.Clossification Act.and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the, Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the: Joint.Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity.$.

lw sast Page 6 !

W 68261



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter’ “U.S. HOUSE-OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, of changes

il i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) : Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby:authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Eileen G. Dinneen 9/1/78
4.
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

O Appointment
‘WikSalary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Cl Title Change -
C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) 4
Assaseinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

(If.type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information’ below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
$8,600.00

* Ibemoloyee is a civil-service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross:annual salary shown should include the-onnuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate.item below.) : 2
1.‘ Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. > 4

2. Special (Investigative: staff of Standing Committee) or ‘Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 226 of EB Congress.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete’ item below.)

Position Number... IF opplicable, Level_____-. Step___.-..
- | certify. that this authorization is" not in violation. of 5 _U,S;C:"3110(b), -prohibiting the ‘employment of
relatives. DBE Oe

i
i:

of Authorizing

“ yours STOKES, “CHATRMEN

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act .and for Committee ‘em~
ployees, except those of the Committee on-Appropriations, the’ Committee’ on the: Budget, “and the Joint Committees, must’ * |! 4
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. |

APPROVED:. 4

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ae
Office Code.___ = Benefits _________--___-_-_---_
Monthly Annuity $.___-..- 00 as of 2 Payroll ___.______..-------—-— E

W 68261
locid:32243300 Page 7 f

5



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM :
oo oy'ss. © (Please Use Typewriter: + U.S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections, or changes.

or Ballpoint: Pen) : Washington, D.C. 20515 .~ pe, il Form st bo fnitialed-by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: =

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: 5s = >
Employee. Name (First-Middle-Last) 0°. 0° osu Effective Date
Elleen G. Dianeen _ : 8/1/78
Employee Social. Security. Number cig te Type of Action -
Sif salary Adjustment : \
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee:: ... . .| Gl Title Change . ; 4
, ~ | Gi Termination (At close of business on effective date) 4
: Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning date above and ending |=!
close of business. -) 4
4
(if. type- of ,action. isan, Appointment, Salary Adjustment,-or Title. Change, complete appropriate. information below.) ;- we ces 4
c Position Title Gross Annual Salary* 4
$4,000.00

0 is a.civil service a
ry received from.the

tant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross, annual solary shown'should include the annuity received by the employee
ploying office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, D Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional: . - .

2. BySpecial (Investigative. staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.959-of I5titongress:
3. O01 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an‘ Officer of the House, complete item below.) > «

Position Number. If applicable; Level

2
s
3
H

Hl

H

H

pl certify. that. this. authorization. is not: in, violation of 5: U.S.C. 3110{(b),: prohibiting: the.-employment. of
relatives.

Date.

, All.appointments.and salary adjustments: for-employees -under- the House*-Classification Act: and. for Committee: em-:
ployees, except those of the.Committee on Appropriations, the. Committee on the Budget, and. the-Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.2 2. _
| . Choirman, Committee on House Administration
1. Office of Finance use only: ID _----
Office Code.--______ Benefits ____-____.__-_-______=
Payroll__---_

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

W 68261
locid:32243300 Page 8



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter“ _#° U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIV
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: : LN
: — 4
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date ; a |
Eljeen &. Dinaeen 6/1/78 ‘
Employee Social Security Number . . Type of Action
CO Appointment
1 Salary Aust =
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee 0 Title Change . . ::
: , Gi Termination (At close of business on effective date) |
: Assassinations ; D Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending A
close of business. ) a4
4
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment,.or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) : 1
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* |
. |
$16,100

* Hf emoloyee is a civil service-annvitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate itém below.) 4
q
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. 4
1 4
. 2. Il Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. pes.296 oy #25 congress. 4
3. O Joint Committee: A
| _. (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) | ee
i 8 d
Position Number__.2-- if applicable, Level__.__-. Step___--.. i
: 4
| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5-U:S.C. :3110(b),:prohibiting the employment. of |
relatives. 4
|
‘

All-appointments and salary adjustments-for employees under: the House’ Classification Act: and for’ Committee em->-
« ployees; except those of the‘Committee on Appropriations, the: Committee’ on the Budget, andthe Joint Commiittees, ‘must: =":
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: J

Chairman, Committee on House Administration:

Office of Finance use only: , ID nent 4
Office Code... .-----

W 68261
ocid:32243300 Page 9



i
}

PAYROLL. “AUTHORIZATION.-FORM. FAT:

“U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES =
*~ Washington, D.C.'20515 °°"

¢ afPléase-Use"Typewriter--
fa or Ballpoint: Pen)"

«To the-Clerk-of:the House-of Representatives: °° °° sawed

hereby authorize’ the following payrolh'action: 22s oti Maden

(Any erasures; ;correctit
on. this.form- must: be.’
authorizing official.)

s,or-changes”*
led: -by.the.

aes Employee.Name (First-Middle-Last)

“Deffective Date ef

Eileen Copel and

a/TT

Employee Social Security: Number:

“Type of Action =

Employing Office or Committee ~*
“Agsasstnations

11 Appointment

& Sclary Adjustment,

(1 Termination (At close of business ‘on effective date)

{tf type of action’is:an: Appointment or Salary Adjustment, comiplete'the-tollowing information) *.”

Position Title

“Gross ‘Annual Salary

Researcher

$15,000 #3| |

(If Committee Employee; complete appropriate item below!) een seu

1B} Standing Committes: Staff=[ Clerical or [5 Professional”
2, KE] Special or Select Committee: Authority “Hi Res. 408.: of 288 Congress: =
3. C1 Joint Committee:

(If Employee. of an-Officer‘of the: House, complete ‘item below.)

Position: Number__ +2222 i

If applicable, Level_ -

+e: Lecertify that this .authorization. is. not -in violation”

relatives: ca

_

ae
Aouis Stokes
Z

All appointments and’salary-adjustments for employees under the House~Classific

-ployees,:except those of the: Committee“on-Appropriations; the Committee -on’ the’ Budget, and’ the Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee.on House: Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

or Committee

W 68261
jocid:32243300 Page 10



PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION FORM.” : =

(Please Use Typewriter 2° UES. HOUSE oF REPRESENTATIVES: ~- (Any erasures, corrections,:or changes

. a baa: ‘on this form must be-initialed by the.
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C.:20515 oy authorizing official.)

To the. Clerk of the House’ of Representatives: 7 Beat ec

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

s Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). a Beth Paitin etna, : Effective Date 4 \
Eileen Copeland 8/1/77 4 \
Employee Social Security Number. : “Type of Action ; ie | \
7 C1 Appointment 4
Employing Office of Committee ~° - (8 Solary, Adjustment pa i
Assas¢tnations C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) 1
- |

-(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information:)

Position Title > : Gross Annual Salary : 4
Secretary 13,506

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item-below.)

so. 1s] Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or] Professional.
+2. [X) Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 4
3. [1] Joint Committee.
(If Employee of cn:Officer of:the House, complete item below.) °* 2... walt : BEA ae oa
Position. Number. f applicable, Level 2 4
~ckueertify.-that~ this authorization® is..noty in’-violation -of 5 “4
relatives. zo 4
i
Dote. 4
i
“
: Type or print name of Authorizing Offiah |

CHAIRMAN

All: appointments and:salary adjustments for employees under-the House: Classification Act and. for: Committeé.
«-ployees;:except those: of.the:Commitiée-on-Appropriations, the: Cominittee: om ther Budget, cind the: Joint:Comminteesiimust +
be approved: by the Committee onsHouse ‘Administration. . vari en ke yeast 4:

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: t - ' a
Office Code: a

ea

‘

W 68261
ocid:32243300 Page 11



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM - - 3 4 ye 4

-(Pleasé-Use: Typewriter. 92-002 AU. S. HOUSE ‘OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any-erasures, corrections,:or changes..-°--.)

or Ballpoint Pen)’ Washington; D.C. 20515. © gn ais form rs te initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House.of Representatives:

| hereby-authorize the following payroll action:

» y +: Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). <0. “ nek ao «Effective: Date. es

fileen Gail Copeland 5/16/77
uae Employee Social Security Number ee Type of Action

[xnrvon] 35 Appointment
5 * - Employing Office-or Committee O Solary Adjustment .
: Assasstnations

CO Termination (At close of business on effective. dote)

. (Iftype.of action.is.an Appointment or Salary Adjustment; complete the-following information.)

< Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Secretary . $11,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below) = =.=

Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical-or'E] Professional. 2. e9e ese trices nee

} Special or Select-Committee: Authority~H. Res.

_ 3: EJ Joint Committee:

(If Employee of an-Officer of the House, ‘complete‘item below.) By eo Gog: ARE REEENS:

If applicable, Level_: 2: Step_ai-i ie.

certify that. this! authorization: is. not. in = violation -
relatives.”

Date!

<-sv..s0A\llkappointments and:salary adjustments.for employees’ under the House Classification
ployees} except those. of the.Committee onAppropriations;.the:Committee on. the. Budgets sand: Mi Joint: Committees;-must
be approved by the Committee on-House:Administration.. " -

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office ° Code.

IW 68261 : - a
locid:32243300 Page 12 £ Ut t |



MEMORANDUM \

AUGUST 23, 1977

TO: Tom Howarth
FRO M Donovan L. oof D
3 Eileen Copeland

Pleaes be advised that effective today's date, August
23, 1977, Eileen G. Copeland is transferred from the
clerical position she currently holds with the
Kennedy Task Force, to a research position with the
Kennedy Research/Document Unit.

Her salary is to be at $15,000 per annum. \

Thank you. ‘i \

Apron 11077 —

IW 68261 —
ocid:32243300 Page 13 i



LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

‘sAMUEL 1. DEVINE, oM0
facta Es FAUNTROY, Dic. Sonn B- ANDERSON, fee
Woane exathnive BOGE. CALIF, STEWART B. MCKINNEY, COMM.
Enmisvorncn 2, DoDD, CONN. Shanes THOME, NEBR.
Por 2. FITAIAN, BD. Select Committee on Assassinations
Rooent w. EDGAR,

(eon) a25-a6ea G.S. House of Representatives

‘3842 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515
MEMORANDUM

TO: TOM LAMBETH
FROM:

ROBERT K. TANENBAUM
DATE: May 27, 1977
RE:

SECRETARY FOR JFK TASK FORCE

On May 26, 1977, Ken Klein,

Cliff Fenton
and I interviewed Ilene Copeland.

This memorandum is to formally-request that

she be assigned as a secretary to the Kennedy Task

Force as of Tuesday, May 31, 1977.



MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF i

RE:. Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

r. The following are the relationships to be included in the
| certification: _

|
father nephew brother-in-law |
mother niece sister-in-law

i son husband stepfather |
daughter wife a stepmother \ \
brother father-in-law stepbrother ; \
sister mother-in-law . stepsister j \
uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |
first cousin : —

_ Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget.
Office immediately of the change.

x I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Pilon Copelank 5\ nel 77 ;
Signature of Employee Date

W 68261 a ——
jocid:32243300 Page 15 i H

