JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90021-10096
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 62-9-12-226
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 05/22/1961
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH CAMPISI
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :. Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — 4; 11(a).
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

91
NW 68262 Docid:32323898 Page 1

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS



. ‘

FUG; 36 (Rev, le-ts-ow, . :
6 ;

eo 88 bg
. ; |
1

°
TQ ee

Ww FBI
; 5
Date: 8/22/61 H
PLAIN TEXT |

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)
AIRTEL (

(Priority or Method of Mailing) 1

nee ee ee ee hoe
XO TO 2) DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

y, v, prow by ii DALLAS (94-564-SUB)
fp MINA! PROGRAM

DALLAS DIVISION
WEEKLY SUMMARY

Re Dallas airtel 5/15/61.
Re; NICK CASCIO, aka.

At (E8735)

On 5/18/61, Lt. JACK REVILL, Intelligence
Section, Dall. D, advised he had"information from an
informant thatAPhil's Pizza Kitchen, 2900 Greenville,
meuateenS EAC eres trol HBugout“py numerous Dal las

. underw aracters, including CASCIO, lam
TEM. “serriethass (L 92-33) and THOMAS JEFFE E, A
——""_—s RE“ FBE“¥7397791. The license to operate this establish-

ment was issued to LELA MAB PHILLIPS.

On 5/17/61, a Bureau agent observed BASS
driving a 1955 red and black Oldsmobile, Texas license
MN 9008, This information was furnished to Lt. REVILL
and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN on 5/18/61.

pys. 1S copied Re: JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, aka. Wane
for WSCA ck AR (DL 92-36) . :
alsal7s ¢ On 5/15/61, ED BUTLER, operator of ee :
Bureau,
g ~ Dallas (92-35) patias cbblagx "222

Dallas: (92-33)
Dallas (92-36)
Dallas (92-192)
Dallas (92-196)
Dallas (92-208)
Dallas (92-231)
Dallas (92- 237}

-
‘Dallas (162-8) :
Dallas tp se1ayb,d- ff 2ro
Dallas (31-8148) :
Dallas (31-8149) H
Dallas (94-: 433 & MAY 23 1961 “ty
Dallas (94-48) ¢

Dallas (137-983) “~~

3 Dallas (94-55A:
| _ tI RS Gs €237
(of - Sent
| Special Agent in Charge

58 uhh "=

NW 68262 Docid:32323898 Page 2

bpebrvarega

BRR RRR ERE

PHP EPH ERP Ee
Brrtearras
—
e
o



L_

QO =~ QO +

DL .94-55A-SUB

Service Station located 3040 West Mockingbird Lane, Dallas,
was contacted concerning his business relations with CIVELLO,
CIVELLO's brother CHARLES and prother~in-law, ROSS MUSSOP,-
It should be noted BUTLER is # cousin of @ Bureau Agent —
and BUTLER has been designated @ confidential source by

the Dallas Office. BUTLER stated that CHARLES CLVELLO

and MUSSO had been steady customers up until gbout 5/1/61
and that. subject CIVELLO weuld oeasionaily come in for gas.
All purchases were charged to. a personal charge account. —
(no credit: card. used) and billed to the "Airway Liquor
Store". The billa were alee paid by check drawn on’ the
liquor store account at. the Exchange National Bank in
Ballas, BUTLER stated, however, that since €/1/61 the .
above group suddenly quit doing business with him for no
apparent reason, He advised that CHARLES CIVELLO is quite
a talker, usually gripping about business eonditions, ©
while MUSSO and subject CIVELLO are extremely quiet.

He stated he would immediately advise the Dallas Office
when any of CIVELLO's automobiles are left for servicing
and that these automobiles ‘would be made available to
Bureau Agents. .

On 5/15/61, Bureau Agent observed the automobile
of Dallas gD Detective CHARLES SANSONE parked at the Airway
Liquor Store for approximately 13 minutes. From the
liquor store, SANSONE was observed going directly to the
Visuvio Risturante (operated. by CIVELLO's associate JOE
JANNI, DL 92-192). : : :

On 5/19/61, PCI JOHN MICHAEL GRIZZAFFI contacted

-ASAC DAVID W. BREEN and advised that he had been in contact

with JOHNNY ROSS - (JOHNNY ROSS PATRONO, DL 92-31) on 5/18/61.
PCI stated that JOHNNY. ROSS owed him, informant, $1,000

and. informant was attempting. to put the bite on ROSS. to
have him pay the debt. ROSS claimed he did not. have the
money but would attempt to dig it'up. . Informant told

ROSS that he needs the money. as he intends. to. go.into

“another business venture and needed it as soon as ‘possible..

. Infor$ant told ROSS that he had been contacted

by an FSI agent concerning the Italian hoodlum element in
‘Pallaa and that he, the informant, had nothing whatever to
say to the FBI agent. He told ROSS he had better be.car
‘ful as. the. FBI is interested in his activities... “ROSS -
inquired as to whether or not the FBI was interested in
certain, Italians and informant told him that he believed

-2-

NW 68262 Docid:32323898 Page 3


pace = OO 7

DL 94-55A~SUB

for them. He pointed cut that this is considered an accomodation
for good customers and that it is in no sense “pimping”.

On 5/18/61, Detective BH, M. HART, Iptelligence Section,

Dallas PD, advised he had infeormtion Hae 4 NK TOBTORIELLO
q (DL 92-196), has a girl friend named 8 residir
the 10300 block Crestover Street, Dailas., ait hang

thé Niblack Reducing Salon, 7710-4, inwooa® On 5/19/61,

Bureau agents located TORTORIELLO’ & car, @ white over blue

1961 Oldsmobile, Texas license NJ 162, parked in slot 91

at the rear of lake North Apartments, 9487 Webbis: Chapel Rd., .
Dallas. On checking the apartments im this area it was i
ascertained that F, TORTORIELLO resides in Apt. D. The

postman of the area wes contacted under pretext and advised

that individual has been residing at this address for approxi-

mately 2 or 3 months but that he appears to be gone from the

residence a great deal of the time, returning about once a week

to pick up his mail. |

On 5/21/61 PCI WYNNE MILLER stated that upon reflecting
over the information he had previously furnished Bureau agents
concerning a New York visitor of CIVELLO’s that he believed
this man’s name was FRUZZIO (PH) who had previously been in
the bakery business in New York City but was now in the
grocery business in Up State, New York,

At the present time the Dallas Office is conducting
investigation towards the placing of a misur in the office of
the Egyptian Restaurant Dallas which is operated by CIVELLO's
associates JOE and SAM CAMPISI. From investigation to date |
it appears that this office is a meeting place and telephonic
contact place for CIVELLO and/or his associates in Dallas.
Details of Dallas plans will be furmished the Bureau by
separate communication. K Law 11 (a)

Re; MARTIN BUSTER LOICANO, aka.
AR, IGA (DL 92-208; 162-8; 94-48

JAMES DePRATO, Special Agent, Intelligence Divi
dyised

NW 68262 Docid:32323898 Page 4



ve OO © _

DL 94~554~SUB

ROBERT HOY, President of the Tarrant County Crime
Commission, Fort Worth, Texas, advised on 5/19/61 that there
was a definite attempt to influence certain candidates for the
Fort Worth City Council. HOYT stated that as far as he could
determine the LOICANO brothers, BUSTER and FRANK, had their
men contact some candidates and offer them $3,000 campaign
expenses and would deliver from 2,Q00 to 2,500 votes if the
candidate would exercise his influence in opening Fort Worth .
up as far as gambling and prostitution were concerned. The
reason given to the candidates was that this would be good for
convention business in Fort Worth.

Re: HOLMES MARCEY DEAVENPORT, aka.
AR (DL 92-237) .

an

” On' 5/17/61,’ a Bureau agent, while conducting
investigation in ate corte observed DEAVENPORT and Dallas . »
prostitute SHIRLEY A SHARP, Dallas PD #46757, get out cL ai ;
1959 yellow overjwhité Ford, Texas license BN 9483 and enter
the residence at¥2415 Wycliff, Dallas.  J* was subsequently
ascertained that and SHARP ‘édiding af this
residence. The information concerning DEAVENPORT and SHARP,
their automobile and residence, was furnished to Lt. REVILL
and Deputy MORGAN on 5/18/61.

Re; VIRGIL JOHN ETCHIESON, aka.
AR, WSTA (DL 92-249; 31-8148)

be On 5/19/61, two Bureau agents were returning to the
downtown area of Dallas via an expr way when they were passed

“yl bedae

NW 68262 Docid:32323898 Page 5

