i
|

"NW 68261

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of
992 (44 USC 2107 Note],
od ° asett: NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10326
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 7

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| Docld:32243292 Page 1


~ Date: 08/20/93
. . Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10326

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 01/01/77
PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
CONZELMAN, JAMES K.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

| COMMENTS :
| Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 68261

| Docld:32243292 Page 2


|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter C) U.S. HOUSE OF "REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washingtea, D.C. 20515 SE fe initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
James K. Conselman 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
| Cl Appointment
Oi Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Oi Title Change
[32 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations CO Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
. close of business. ae
Speci Baie

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.

56
2.200 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H.. Ress
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those-of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: .

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code... _____..

Revised: August 1, 1977)

IW 68261 7 Soe
locid:32243292 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter.
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk. of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515 - -

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
‘on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

dames K. Conzelman

_

Becember }, 197

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

D Appointment

SCE Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

O Title Change ’

Assassinations

OO Termination (At close of business on effective date)
D Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. )

Specify Date

(If type of.action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher

$16,100

* femoloyee iso

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

service annuitant (includes U.S: House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by. the employee.

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional.

2.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

relatives.

na a------------- \f applicable, Level

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

| certify that this authorization is not. in violation .of 5 U.S.C.. 3110(b),  prohibi

Step_. --

All appointments and salary. adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except. those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the-Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

ab

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

W 68261
locid:32243292 Page 4

ik

|
!
|
i

a
{

oa


PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION FORM-

(Please Use-Typewriter «U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES “(Any erasures, corrections, or changes:

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C.-20515. sutheriiee ffiesa.) initialed by the

To the Clerk.of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) B Effective Date
dames K. Conzelman : 8/1/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action .
D Appointment
Tee
Employing Office or Committee i © Salary Adjustment
Assassinations i Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Researcher 15,000

(IF Committee Employee; complete appropriate item below.)

1. [] Standing Committee: Staff=[] Clerical or [J Professional.

2. [B] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the-House, ‘complete item-below.)

Position Number. If. applicable; Level

relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official

- ABEIS STOKES

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

CHATRMAN

Title=if Member, District end State)

All_appointments.and salary adjustments-for employees: under: the. House -Classification:Act..and -for:Committee em-
ployees;except those of the Committee’on-Appropriations; the: Committee-on-.the: Budget, -and:the- Joint.Committees;-must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration... = 0:21

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

| a
W 68261 ~~
locid:32243292 Page 5 /

| certify thot this: authorization: is not ‘in. violotion..of $= US.G» 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of



| lw 68261

Docld:32243292 Page 6 ;

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM a

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE -OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections,-or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 Soe eae initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) * : Effective Date
dames K. Conzelman 5/77
Employee Social Security Number a Type of Action

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee i Salary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary-Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$13,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. EJ Standing Committee: Staff—(J Clerical or] Professional.
2. i Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.. of 25H Congress.
3. [) Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.
Position Number 2. If applicable, Level_..____. Step.

| certify..that this. authorization. is not in: violation -of. 5: U.S.C...3110(b},, prohibiting the employment. of
relatives. os

Date. Hay 10 \977

(Signature of Authorizing Offciol)

7
Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

o1 . All. appointments and:salary adjustments for employee s-undér.the. House: Classification’Act and. for.Committee. em: :-

‘ployees,- except those, of the-Committee on Appropriations; theGommittee.on the Budget; and.the:Joint Committees,:must

be approved: by the Committee.on House.Administrations». .-, Bea -
_ APPROVED:
Office of Finance use only: - .
Office Code . Zp
D
Monthly Annuity $._.___-___.00 p

i
|
4
4



lk

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter -
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (Any erasures, corrections, or changés
Washington, D.C. 20515

on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

James K. Conzelean

4/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

CO Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

& Sclary Adjustment

Assassinations

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$22,600

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate.item below.)

1

2.

3.

Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465

Joint Committee.

Professional.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

relatives.

| certify that this authorization: is not-in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
ee

{Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

All appointments-and salary adjustments for employees ‘under the House Classification Act-and. for Committee ‘em:
‘ployees, except those’ of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and’ the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration:

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

W 68261

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

locld:32243292 Page 7



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.

(Please Use Typewriter’ ~ Au: S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES © fy erasures, caretions, or changes
. or Ballpoint Pen) : Washington, D.C. 20515” e een erm eet initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: -

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) - Effective Date \

SK, Conzeinan / V3s7? \

Employee Social Security Number > Type of Action i :
“ ; . B (C0 Appointment |
: Employing Office or Committee © Slory Adjustment = |
: Select Comm * | [Termination (At close of business on effective date) '

«(If type of action is an‘Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary

i
|
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 7 |
_ - |
1. [ Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or] Professional. |

Nn
=]

E] Special-or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res...

; i
3. [1] Joint Committee. |

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__

| certify that this authorization: is. not in violation. of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Signature of Author

All appointments and.salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Gonimittees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: |
Office Code.

¢
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

i

NW 68261 en
| Docld:32243292 Page 8



‘ PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. —
+ (Please Use Typewriter. _, U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES __ (Any erasures, corrections;.or changes. -
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington; D.C. 20515-* 0%, form must be Intaled bythe

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: 7

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: °

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date 4 \

Jones K. Conzelisan Y/TSIT °

Employee Social Security Number - Type of Action :

Appointment \

Employing Office or Committee O Salary Adjustment

( Termination (At close of business on effectivé date)

Select Comittec an Assassinati

aS

(If type of action‘is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information) -

Position Title Gross-Annual Salary a

S> Researcher

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [Standing Committee: Staff—-[] Clerical or] Professional: c ‘
a

a

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.24J

3. [1] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below). : Pao

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that. this authorization is .not- in: violation of 5 US.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the.employment ‘of
relatives.

Date. __.

, (Title“If Member, District and Stote)

All-appointments-and: salary adjustments for employees *under the House Classification: Act:and-for Committee em: +

ployees; except-those- of the Committee: on-Appropriations, the Comimittee-on thesBudget, and the Joint Gommittees,: must’
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

~~ Chairman,

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Copy. for Initiating Office or Committee Bop eo H

| Nw 68261 i. os r
| Docld:32243292 Page 9 .



; O
MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

feather nephew brother-in-law. |
mother niece . sister-in-law |
son husband stepfather i
daughter wife stepmother i
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister |
uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |

first cousin
All staff employees are requested to complete this

form and return it to the Budget officer.

-Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not Yelated ———

Iam Yelated by the following relationship

locld:32243292 Page 10

