Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10158
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

992 (44 LSC 2107 Note),
‘aseH:NW 68261 Date:
9-01-20

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

‘NW 68261
Docld:32244100 Page 1


ra . Date:08/20/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10158

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE : 03/13/78
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
SMITH, CONSTANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

PRINTED FORM
U

3

P

07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :
Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docld:32244100 Page 2



|

|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
~ (Please Use Typewriter q) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

|

e on :

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 a yee ET
i

1

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
yo
1
Constance Smith 12/31/76 ‘an
L Employee Social Security Number Type of Action | i

1 Appointment j

O Salary Adjustment i

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
, - [501 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business,

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee.
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. OF Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.

2.8 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res..
3. D Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

f applicable, Level_

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. .

Dote_____- 19

22 oF print nome of Authorizing Official)

cmatRnay

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Clas
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.
Office of Finance use only: iD
Office Code.
Monthly Annuity $___ 00 asof_ Payroll.

Copy for Initiating Office.or Committee

NW 68261 —— - —_ ae
Docld:32244100 Page 3


=

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ‘FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

(Any erasures, corrections, of changes

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last)

Effective Date

Constance Smith

March 13, 1978

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

i Appointment

O Salary Adjustment

Oi Title Change

1 Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)

C. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_____________-_--_.-------_---- )
Specify Date

{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change; complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

Secretary

13,596.98

* Ifemoloyee is a civil service annuitant {includes U.S: House of Repr
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional.

=
2. G Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or-Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 97 5 of

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

natives); the’ gross‘annual salary shown should ifclude the annuity received by the employee

All-appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House’ Classification Act-and for Committee’ em=
ployees; except: those of the Committee’on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the’ Joint- Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261

Docld:32244100 Page 4



TO:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

MEMORANDUM

Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel Ne e ML,

March 1, 1978

Ms. Constance (Connie) Smith

Please be advised that effective Monday, March 13,

1978, Ms. Constance Smith has accepted the position of

Secretary with the John F. Kennedy Task Force. Her

effective starting salary will be $13,500.00

ICM:j

| NW 68261

Docld:32244100 Page 5



NW 68261

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

Date Mare LD £3. SID

0: Shed Lnmithee ome Mesassiun Tou

(Employing Authority)

fq] I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any
current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law
mother niece stepfather
son husband stepmother
daughter wife stepson
brother father-in-law stepdaughter
sister mother-in-law stepbrother
uncle son-in-law stepsister
aunt daughter-in-law half-brother
first cousin brother-in-law half-sister
im I certify that Iam the of the
(Relationship)
Honorable

(Name of Member to whom related)

Cows, 2 Si.

(Employee)

cro 16-78605-3,

Docld:32244100 Page 6

y

