ennedy Assassination
fecords Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
‘aset:NW 68261 Date:
03-01.20)

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10155
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| NW 68261

Docld:32244097 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Py Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

I IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10155

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE

03/21/78
PAGES : 4

| ‘ SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
SHAPIRO, HOWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE‘: PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
Docld:32244097 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter “\__/ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Washington, D.C. 20515

on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Howard Louls Shapire 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
y 0 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

1 Solary Adjustment

C Title Change

5B Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or (1 Professional.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level_

_Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

lure of Authorizing Official)

Louis Sto

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance. use only:
Office Code.

Copy for: Initiating Office:or: Committee «

Nw 68261
Docld:32244097 Page 3

oe,



| PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

{Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 sutherieiee offen) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: -

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Howard Leuis Shapiro _ S-al - 78
Employee Social Security: Number Type of Action
een | Appointment
O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title. Change
Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)
. Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with ef date above and ending
close of business. oP -)
acy Baie

(If.type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher Atterney $48,000

* K.emoloyee isa civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee:

plus the salary received from the employing office.
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or (1 Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______-_ If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. = <

(Type oF print name of Authorizi

SAM

All. appointments and salary adjustments. for employees. under. the. House Classification. Act.and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on.the Budget, and the Joint-Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

NW 68261 | ee. i

‘|| Docld:32244097 Page 4



MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel oer.
DATE: 22 March 1978

RE: Mr. Howard Shapiro

Please be advised that effective March 21, 1978,
Mr. Howard Shapiro has accepted the position of Research
Attorney with the John F. Kennedy Task Force, HSCA. His
effective starting salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,

please contact me at your convenience.

ICM: 5

|) Nw 68261 a
|| Docld:32244097 Page 5



|
|
|

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

pate 1/23/08

to: Mae. Stheet (omm_ ln Acsassutthens

(Employing Authority)

I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any
current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law
mother niece stepfather
son husband stepmother
daughter wife stepson
brother father-in-law stepdaughter
sister mother-in-law stepbrother
uncle son-in-law stepsister
aunt daughter-in-law half-brother
first cousin brother-in-law half-sister
(1 I certify that Iam the of the
(Relationship)
Honorable

(Name of Member to whom related)

NW 68261
Docld:32244097 Page 6

