# docid-34529875

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date :

Page

:

08/21/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10002-10156

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 114

-----

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: [ RESTRICTED 1

TO

TITLE

DATE

:

:

:

PAGES

SUBJECTS

[ RESTRICTED ]

11/19/58

1

: SCHEER, ROBERT

PRE- INDUCTEE

JEROME, VICTOR JEREMY

JEROME, V. J.

NEW YORK STATE COMMUNIST PARTY COMMITTEE

NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR JEWISH WORK

POTASH, IRVING

SMITH ACT

AGENT REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/11/96

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW

BY FBI

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE WITH RESTRICTIONS, PER LTR

DTD 5 NOV 97.

NW 64954 Docld:34529875 Page 1

---

## Page 2

AGENT REPORT

(SR 380-320-10)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

SCHEER, Robert

Pre-Inductee

DOB: 4 April 1936

2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1958

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

H1-016940

4. REPORT

FOR OF BONGS, New York

40 (AGENCY) On 13 November 1958, the files of FBI, New York, New York,

were consulted concerning Victor Jeremy Jerome, aka V. J. Jerome, the father

of one of SUBJECT'S associates, and the following information was extracted

from FBI report dated 20 August 1958, Bureau File 100-64108:

Jerome resides at 320 Second Avenue, New York City, as a self employ-

ed writer from his residence.

in New York City on various dates in late 1957 and early 1958.

New York State Communist Party Committee meeting on ll January 1958, was ap-

pointed to a Sub-committee to work with the National Commission for Jewish

Work, Communist Party, USA, attended the 28th and 29th June 1958 meeting of

Comnunist Party National Committee and was speaker at the faculty of Social

Science on 19 January 1958. As of 4 November 1957 he was a subscriber to

Mainstream and Political Affairs. Jerome sent New Year greetings to Irving

Potash, who was convicted of conspiracy to violate the Smith Act in 1949, was

voluntarily deported to Poland in 1955, and was arrested by FBI, New York in

January 1957 for illegally entering the United States. In January 1958, Jerome

attended a birthday party for Charles Gerber who is said to have identified

himself as Press Director of the Upper East Side Section of the Communist Party.

Victor Jeremy Jerome was one of the Communist Party leaders convicted

release to 28 June 1957 when he completed his sentence for the violation.

BUSY PSVORK TASK FORCE

Co:

119197 Jal

MADANSE IN FART

• TOTAL DENIAL

5668540/GCL

1:4

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING;

DA DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

PAUL F. ROHDE, 108th CIC Group

112

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA AR 52 341 REPLACES WO AGO FORM 311. 1 JUN A1, WHICH MAY BE USES.

indian a delt

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1954-0-284854

NW 64954 Docld:34529875 Page 2

---

