AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

NW 64954 Docld:34517463 Page 1

OPENING CRITERIA :

Date : 11/17/98
Page 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSP

194-10012-10005

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
ZFO00003W - PAGES 7-11

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
USA
RETURNED BRITISH DEFECTOR FROM THE ROZ
12/09/57
eravoom! VLADIMIR
ROBERTS, ANNA FRIDA
ROBERTS, G.
INTERVIEW

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: CONFIDENTIAL

1B, 2
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/20/95



‘a! Detachment

BRITISH INTELLIGENCE POOL BERLIN
British Forces Post Office 45.

BERLIN + 93 4384.
TA! Det + 93 4206.

Officer Commanding BRIP/O/11/354.
BRITISH INTELLIGENCE POOL BERLIN
British Forees Post Office 45. J Dec 51.

Subject + Mrs. Anna Frida ROBERTS, nee BURKHARDT, ©
widowed UDOLPH. (Wife of 23221775 Pte
ROBERTS, G., returned BRITISH defector
from the ROZ.)

CONTENTS
-PART ONE : PREAMBLE.
PART TWO + PERSON CONCERNED. ~
PART THREE : CASE HISTORY.
PART FOUR + COMMENTS.
ANNEXURE ONE : BRITISH DEFECTORS IN BAUTZEN.(ROZ).
ANNEXURE THO. + AMERICAN DEFECTORS IN BAUTZEN (ROZ).

ANNEXURE THREE MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS OF INTEREST IN

BAUTZEN (ROZ).

Ref BRIP/O/11/354 dated 23 Oct 57 tesseseeeesceeeer SAMS
PART ONE
oa PREAMBLE
1. suring the morning of 2 Dec 57, we were informed that Mrs

ROBERTS was in WEST BERLIN. She was contacted during the samo
afternoon and arrangements made to interview her on 3 Dec 57.

(Ref 'A! is the interrogation report on Pte ROBERTS upon his return
from the ROZ in Oct 57

PAR? TWO
PERSON CONCERNED.
2. Surname + ROBERTS, nee BURKHARDT,
UDOLPH.
= Christian name(s) + Anna Prides ~~
“~~ Date of-birth + 29 Apr 1915

Place of birth ' ,
Kreis DIPPOLDISWALDE. (ROZ).

Last address in ROZ 1 BAUTZEN/Sachsen, Bleichstrasse Te.

Present address in

WEST BERLIN

Bahnhofs-Mission, BERLIN-TIERGARTEN,
Franklinstrasse, 28.

Date of marriage

(to Pte ROBERTS) + 21 Jan 1956.

7 % ./to sheet 2 (para 2 continued).

|, NW 64954 Docld:34517463 Page 2


2. (Continued )
(NOTE: Mrs ROBERTS was in posession of the 'Familien-
Stamm-Buch! (Family Genealogical Register) referring to
her ROBERTS marriage. Owing to paper shortage, a total
of only 5 photostat copies of this book could be obtained,
however, we have the negative and additional copies can
produced, should this be instructed by higher authority.
The photostats show the front cover and pages 1, 2, 3, 4
and 5.’ Pages 6 to 24 were not photostatted as they
contained no entries, Attention is invited to the notice
on page 2 to the effect that the entries in the book
(Marriage Certificate on pages 4 and 5) are valid as legal
proof. that the events described have taken place.)
3. Brief life-history. :
Date of birth 1 29 Apr 1915. -
1921 to 1929 1 Attended the Volkssehule in
; REINHARDTSCROMA.
1929 to. 1933 + Worked on a farm in REINHARDTSGRIMMA,
|
21 Jun 34 to 23 Sep 40 + Employed as a metal-worker with the
firm of LUDWIG & KOPHAHN in
| SCHOTTYITZ.
9 Oct 40 to 12 Apr 52 + Employed as a metal-worker with the
A firm WILLI TOPFER, REINHARDTSGRIMMA,
n (At the end of the Second World War,
5 the name of this firm was changed by
the SOVIET occupation authorities to
'Einkaufs und Lieferungsgenoasenschaft,
DRESDEN, Hoyerswerderstrasse, 27,
| Betrieb REINHARDTSGRIMMA!. )
| 15 Apr 52 to 24 Oct-53 + Employed as a metal-worker with the
| firm of GUNTER WEIDIC,' REINHARDISGRIMMA.
| 30 Nov 53 to 29 Jul 54° + Employed as a laundress with
WASCHEREI PORSCHE'S BLEICHE, BAUTZEN,
i]. 11 Aug 54 to 11 May 56 + Employed as a kitchen-help by
MITROPA-SCHIFFSGASTSTMTTEN, DRESDEN.
]
10 Sep 56 to 26 Aug 57 + Employed as a turner at VEB
FORDERANLAGEN, BAUTZEN.
2 Sep 57 to 1 Dec 57 |: Employed as a post-womn at the
HAUPTPOSTAND, BAUTZEN.
- . PART THREE
\
7 4." Subjects first husband was killed-in-action during the

Second World Yar.
and they lived to;

In 1953 she met the AMERICAN defector PETERSON

gether ina marital-like state. They did NOT

marry. PETERSON was dissatisfied with his life in the DDR and made
“sful attempts to return to the WEST.

On about
committed suicide by locking himself in the room
gas-tap. His mistress found him upon her

By the time that a doctor arrived PETERSON was
+scounted the hypothesis that PETERSON was murdered
met Pte ROBERTS at PETERSON's funeral and-they
‘ced to live togethers

on 21gJan 56;
ae

they married at the registry _/

tere fto sheet 5 (para s)———~

a



- defector 23247530 Pte McLANE, W., 1 BW

5. On 4 Oct 57, Pte ROBERTS made his successful bid to return
to the WEST, He did NOT tell his wife of his intention and when
she returned home from work, she assumed he left for WEST
BERLIN. She immediately informed Heinz SCHATTEL (Club-leader)

of her’suspicions. The reason that Pte ROBERTS did not tell hie
wife he was intending to return to the WEST was, she thought,
because on previous occasions when this eubject bad beon discussed
she had disuaded him from tak ing this step by saying that if he
attempted to escape and failed, then they both would be deported to
SIBERIA or sentenced to long terms of inprisonment in the DDR.
Subject stated that several such discussions had taken place and
her argunents against escape to the WEST were always the sane.

6. On 9 Oct 57, she received a letter from her husband telling
her that he had reached WEST BERLIN and surrendered himself to the
BRITISH military authorities. On about 1 Nov 57, subject received
another letter from Pte ROBERTS, dated 16 or 19 Oct 57, asking her
to visit him in BERLIN-SPANDAU on 29 Oct 57.

ae On 1 Nov 57, she travelled to BERLIN from BAUTZEN by the
recently-introduced omibus service. Sho had been given an
address in EAST BERLIN by Doris MULLER ines the wife of. the BRITISH
HR), AWOL wef 15 Apr 57)
and told that. the person living at this address would help her in
reaching BERLIN-SPANDAU. (NOTE: We have been in contact with the
person in the EAST sector whom she visited for some considerable
time.in the past and have received useful background informition
on BAUTZEN from this source. Tne source subsequently informed us
of her visit.) Mrs ROBERTS was given directions how to reach BERLIN-
SPANDAU and eventually found herself at a BRITISH arny barracks, -
which from her description would eppear to be identifiable as WAVELL
Barracks. After some time, she was taken to an officer and a
Frau/Fritulein KREITSCH or KRTETSCH { netic) was used'as interpreter.
Mrs ROBERTS was told that her hust a been sent to the UK on 24
Oct 57. She was'given her husband's address. She then left the
barracks and made her was to.Alexanderpletz (BAST sector) where she
caught the bus back to BAUTZEN.

8. A few days after her return ‘io BAUTZEN, she was asked to
visit SCHATPEL in the Club-hovse. Upon arrival at tho Club-house,
she was questioned by two persons, whon she believed to be members
of the MfS, regarding her reasons for visiting WEST BERLIN. She
claimed she told them it was a private family matter. She was
also questioned about the contents of the letters she had received
from her husband, but claimed she refused to give any information /
about this. She was finally asked to meet the KES reprosentativeq/
_at some future, unspecified, date, but refused to acquiesce to 7

arrangement. She was then told that they would see her again
anyway and would send for her when she was required, but they ne
did thias = ~*~ =

95 She was subsequently instructed to go to the Staatsanwaltsch
in the Justizgebllude, BAUIZEN. - Here she
address of her husband, to which question sho replied in the
affirmative, but refused to disclose what it was. She was wlso
asked if she wished to divorce hor husband and answered that she did ,
not, claiming that she had no reasona for taking this step.

++./to sheet 4 (para 10).



|

fe
PS

a A ST OY

_ confiscated.

lo. She received several letters from her husband asking her
to join hin. She discussed this question with Asta SHEARER (wife
of the US Army defector ER 13174266 Arthur SHEARER, AWOL wef 27
Jan 57) who gave her the address of her (Astats) aunt; Frau
Magdelene HILGERT, nee PAETZPE, BERLIN-REINICKENDORF (FRENCH sector),
Waldstrasse, 103. (NOTE: Our enquiries have established that this
person is living with her husband, Erwin, at the above address; she
was born on 26 Feb 1903 in LINGEN and the WEST BERLIN police have
nothing recorded against her.) Mrs ROBERTS did not find it
necessary to get in touch with Frau HILGERT.

ll. Mrs ROBERTS decided that she would attempt to reach WEST BERLIN
and tegan to send her furniture to her son (by her first marriage),
Helma UDOLPH, living in SOHLAND, Kreis BAUTZEN, Scheitenbach, 12.

She did this as she claimed that upon.her-departure to the: WEST the
flat would be sealed by the DDR authorities and’the furniture

lz. At 0030 hours on 1 Dec 57, she left BAUTZEN for WEST BERLIN,
by train, arriving in BERLIN-SPANDAU at about 0900 hours 1 Ded 57.
She made her way to WAVELL Barracks, the only place she knew in WEST
BERLIN (para 7 above refers) and expleined her case to an officer,
the same woman as before acted as interpreter. The officer
telephoned scne-one and then advised her to go to the refugee camp
in BERLIN-SPANDAU, Askanierring, This she did, but was told that
she could not be taken in as this camp was but a sub-camp and she
would first have to go to the m amp in BERDIN-MARTENFELDE,
She then mde her way to the *Z00' railway station, where she “contacted
representatives of the Bahnhofs=ifission, who sont her to the hostel in
Franklinstrasse, para 2 above refers er she contacted the BRITISH
consul in WEST BERLIN, on 2 Dec 57, who informed HQ BERLIN Indep Bde
wha. ir turn, informed this unit, para 1 above refers.

1

13. Mrs ROBERTS claimed that she had not teen a member of the FDJ
or SED and had taken no interest’in DDR politics and. endeavoured to
give the impression of one who had been opposed to communism all her
life. She admitted she had often visited the Club-house, but claimed
these visits were purely social and. she was accompanied on these

“occasions by her husband. She was questioned. regarding this aspect

of her life, but insisted she had never been politically active.
She also stated categorically that shad never acted as an
informer to the DUR autmeikiies 2. other member of the
renegade. colony in BAUTZEN. Tis conflinted with previous reports &
we have received concerning irs ROBI! activities in BAUTZEN; the
returned dete. WERALEITLD, @S himself said they
thought she did infurm to SCuAT ‘ogated on thig
but denied any such activity, no claimed she had

not be shaken

contrary,
ny way ‘and coul

never supported the DDR regime in
on this.

../to sheet 5 (pare 14).

NW 64954 Docld:34517463 Page 5 =


14. Further to paras 7 and 12 above, it is regrettable that

1 BW (RHR) in the first instance and 1 BORDER in the second, did
not inform us of Mrs ROBERTS! arrivals in WEST BERLIN when they
occurred, It might have proved of velue if we had been able to
contact her earlier, especially, on the occasion of her first visit.
(We did not hear of thie visit from our source, para 7 above refors,
until after it had taken place and it was too late to contact Mrs
ROBERTS. )

1. Interrogator's opinion of subject. She is of average

intelligence and appeared to be a fairly shrewd sort of person.

From what we have already heard of her, and from her ow story,

| she would appear to have mediocre moral standards. She undoubtedly

| kmew a lot about the defector colony in BAUTZEN, but did not volunteer
: information until she began to appreciate that the interrogator had

@ sound background knowledge of events in BAUTZEN. On some occasions

she inadverdently disclosed itens of knowledge which showed she knew

more than she had previously said. When taxed with these slips of

thé tongue!, she replied that they had occured to her as afterthoughts.

In view of her present circumstances she, naturally, endeavoured to

create the impression of a person who had nothing to hide and who was

willing to co-operate. In spite of this, or perhaps because of it,

she did not mke a good impression and thete appecred to be an

intangible air of doubt and mistrust about her and it is considered

that no great reliance can be placed on her, The information she

| gave on BRITISH defectors (Annexure I refers) is thought to be

generally reliable. Her alleged activities as an informant in BAUTZEN

may have been exaggerated by returned defectors, but it is considered

that, at least, if she heard of escape plans by defectors which

involved her husband she did inférm SCHATTEL, in crder not to
jeopardise her own personal security and way of life with her husband,
para 5 above also refers. This may well have been an additional
reason why Pte ROBERTS did not tell his wife of his intended escape
attempt on 4 Oct 57, even t: ng into consideration the criminal
aspect of his reasons, para 45 of ref 'A!' refers. 7
j
a /
nb Cer
\ A {au
j net Me
| eee
| E
— Sgt,
—~ NCO.i/e 'A' Detachment,
co ~ | ae + BRETISUENTELEIGUNGE. BOOK. BERLIN,
Intelligence Corps.
| /383, (Sgt J.B. BARKLAM. )
| .
J
lo /to sheet 6 (Annexure I).

iw 64954 Docld:34517463 Page 6

