# docid-34517371

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

992(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N'w/ 64954 Date:

11-14-2022

Date

Page

: 11/04/98

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10280

RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : C6013559P - PAGES 186-194

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE : FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONS

DATE: 03/21/56

PAGES : 9

SUBJECTS : VALENTINA ONICK

VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI

WALTER BELOBRODSKI

FREDERICK WIILIAM ONICK

WILLIAM F. ONICK

MRS. FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, 3, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/02/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 5

NOV 1997.

NW 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 1

---

## Page 2

R- 91.8940

• 139417

120

per

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FD- 72

(3-9-54)

FORM NO. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

SEATTLE

SECRET

1911

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN

MADE

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON MAN

411700

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

12/30/55

1/4,99

23,24; 3/16/561

REPORT MADE BY

FITLE

REESE H. CHIPMAN

: dls

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL, SECURITY - R

. VALENTINA ONICK, nee BELOBRODSKI,

aka Mrs. FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

On July 14, 1955, Confidential Informant SE T-1, a confidential source

abroad, advised VALENTINA ONICK, maiden name BELOBRODSKI, was married to

FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK in Vancouver, B. C., Canada on April 28, 1955 and

they had established residence in Seattle, Washington. T-1 advised Mrs.

ONICK was listed on Board of Directors of National Council for Canadian

Soviet Friendship Society in 1945, which organization became Communist

controlled in 1947. In interview March 31, 1950 by I-1, Mrs. ONICK

amitted her former membership in above organization and also said she ha

NRIÁSSIFIED

LICENT WHERE SHOWN

een a member of the Federation of Russian-Canadians (Communist) but hel

no office in that organization. I-l advised that according to usually

reliable sources, Mrs. ONICK's brother WALTER BELOBRODSKI is a member of

the Labor-Progressive Party (Communist) and her parents are members of the

Federation of Russian-Canadians.

In same interview Mrs. ONICK advised

she was employed under SERGEI G. LUKIANOV in the Soviet Government

Purchasing Commission, Vancouver, B.C., Canada office from May 1946 to

September 1946 and continued employment in this office until February 1947•

She could furnish no detailed information as to the activities of LUKIANOV,

or other personnel in the above office. Confidential Informant, Seattle

T-2, of unknown reliability, advised in August 1943 that one LUKIANOV,

believed to be identical with SERGEI G. LUKIANOV was a member of an

espionage network in the United States.

T-l said Mrs. ONICK had not

attracted attention in Communist circles in Canada during the past three

or four years and T-l had no previous record of her husband. Data from

U.S.I.N.S. set forth.

On January 24, 1956, reporting agent

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK, FORCE

- 774%

ON 42kind

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/RS

EXCLUDED

FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

SECRET

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

RELEASE IN LEULL

DOD DIR :200.10 DOE; NOT AFPLY

TEK)

BELEASE AL PABI

SPECIAL AGENT

I TOLAL DENIAL

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

186

6/ Bureau

This is an FBI investigative

ONICK)

coport and mats: no recommendation

4 - San Francisco

= 105-3945) (Info)(i

109-3907 (Info)

for sumance ge disapproval.

= Biở, 65th*

nay seattle piago

1

- US INS,

3 - Seattle (65-3458)

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

067DEC/62

PROPERLY Of HEr This reporti out do ye try alien mier in 8 come a no bo dig invied

outside of agency to which loaned.

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-SECRET

SE 65-3458

ascertained by pretext telephone call that FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK

still employed as Assistant Field Director, American Red Cross in

the 13th Naval District, Seattle and he and wife still residing at

3717 - 26th Place, Seattle. Confidential Security Informants familiar

with certain activities and some of the membership of both the

Communist Party, the Socialist Workers Party and related groups in

Seattle were contacted.

These informants were shown photographs of

VALENTINA ONICK and her husband FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK and they advised

they were not acquainted with the ONICKS and could furnish no information

concerning them.

In interview by U. S. Army, December 12, 1955 at

Seattle, FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK advised his

father was associated

with the Russian-American Society, San Francisco during World War II

for purpose of giving aid and assistance consisting of old clothing

for the Russian people.

He stated his father withdrew his' support of

RAS about 1945 as he felt the RAS had served its purpose as Russian

aid group.

ONICK said he also attended social functions of RAS.

ONICK stated he knew nothing of his wife's connection with organizations

in Canada. ONICK said he:did not feel communism is a threat to the

American way of life. Descriptive date set forth.

-P-

DETAILS:

AT SEATTLE, WASHINGTON:

Investigation in this case is predicated upon information received

from Confidential Informant, Seattle I-l,a confidential source abroad,

in a communication dated July 14, 1955 which contained the following information;

VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI was born February 12, 1923 at Szereszewo

Pruzana, Poland.

She was married on April 28, 1955 in Vancouver, Bo C.,

Canada to one FREDERICK W. ONICK who previous to his marriage had resided

in the United States.

The couple were reported to be residing at 3717 -

26th Place, Seattle, Washington, telephone number - Alder 9244 and it was

believed by T-l, this would be their permanent residence.

I-l stated further that according to available information,

VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI was listed as being on the Board of Directors of

the National Council for Canadian Soviet Friendship Society in January 1945.

The National Council for Canadian Soviet Friendship

Society according to T-l, was the forerunner of

the present Canadian Soviet Friendship Society

(Communist Front) and was not considered under

open Communist control until 1947.

187

-SECRET

•2-

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

067DEC/06

NW. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SE 65-3458

I-I further advised that according to usually reliable sources,

VALENTINA ONICK's brother WALTER BELOBRODSKI as of July 1955 was a member

of the Labor-Progressive Party (Communist) and her parents were members

of the Federation of Russian-Canadians.

I-I advised that as of January 1950, WALTER BELOBRODSKI was then

Secretary of the Polish Democratic Association and said her father JOHN

and mother PAULINE were reportedly active in that "same Communist controlled

association".

I-I advised that periodic inquiries had been made concerning Mrs.

ONICK but that she did not attract attention in Communist circles during the

past three or four years, (prior to July 1955).

I-l advised there was no previous record of FREDERICK WILLIAM

ONICK in I-I's files but he was reported to be approximately 32 years of

age and of Russian racial origin.

As of January 1950, subject VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI was employed

as a secretary in the

"Sales.. Branch of the American Can Company,

Vancouver, B. C. and was residing with her parents Mr. and Mrs. JOHN

BELOBRODSKI at 1524 Gravely Street in that city.

By communication dated November 8, 1946, I-I advised that

VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI had approached the United States Embassy at Vancouver,

B. C., Canada for the purpose of ascertaining requirements necessary for

taking up permanent residence in the United States; however, she later

withdrew her application to enter this country. At that time she indicated

that she intended to visit an aunt Mrs. ALEXANDER KALINIEKO, 1601 - 11th

Avenue South, Seattle and her aunt's mother Mrs. KATHERINE SHUMANSKI,

living at the same address.

It was said that she had returned to Canada

from a visit to the United

States on September 30, 1946 but no particulars

were available to T-l concerning this trip.

INTERVIEW WITH VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI BY T-I

ON MARCH 31, 1950

T-I advised that on March 31, 1950, Miss VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI

was interviewed by personnel connected with SE I-l and advised that she

proved to be quite co-operative.

T-1 commented, however, that it appeared

she was unable or unwilling to provide any information of value concerning

Soviet Persónnel in Canada.

During this interview, Wiss BELOBRODSKI furnished

the following information

to officials of I-1:

the office was closed in February 1947. As early as September 1946 she had

been advised of this closure.

188

067 DEC/62

SECRET

- 3-

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-SECRET

SE 65-3458

She furnished the following information as to the circumstances

connected with her employment with the Soviet Purchasing Cormission in

Vancouver:

Shortly prior to accepting the above employment with the Purchasing

Commission, that office had employed a Mrs. HAMILTON who had left for

personal reasons and the Commission had advertised locally for a replacement.

At the same time ALEXANDER E. NAZAROV, a member of the Commission, was

residing temporarily with one HUCALUK or HOCALUK at 812 Keefer Street, who

was proprietor of the Windsor Shoe Repairing Store. She said that Mr.

HOCALUK was a personal friend of hers and that he suggested that she apply

for the position with the Purchasing Commission as she had a good knowledge

of the Russian language.

Miss BELOBRODSKI said the only members of the Purchasing Commission

in Vancouver during her employment there were:

ALEXANDER E. NAZAROV;

PETER P. GAVRILOV; and

SERGEI G. LUKIANOV.

She maintained that no other stenographic help was employed at

that time and said her work was extremely light and consisted principally

of translating English documents into Russian and that these documents

mainly pertained to business between the Purchasing Commission and the

Empire Shipping Company at Vancouver, B. C.

Miss BELOBRODSKI further maintained that the three members of the

staff usually attended to their own correspondence to which she was not given

access.

As far as she was concerned, her business was confined solely to

Sona fide transactions dealing with the shipping of material from Canada to

the Soviet Union. According to T-1, Miss BELOBRODSKI was unable to give any

information concerning movements of

the members of the Purchasing Commission,

apart from some social function which she attended and which from her point

of view had no significance whatever.

SERGEI GRIGORIEV ICH LUKIANOV

In August 1943, Confidential Informant SE I-2, of unknown

reliability, advised that one LUKIANOV, member of the Soviet

Government Purchasing Commission in the United States,

was one of a number of Soviet Government officials who

were then engaged in espionage in the United States. It

is believed that this individual is identical with

SERGEI GRIGORIEVICH LUKIANOV, who was a member of the

Soviet Government Purchasing Commission in the United

States from about 1943 to 1945 at which time he was

transferred and became Chief of the Soviet Purchasing

Commission in Vancouver, B. C., Canada.

189

-SECRET

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

067DEC/62

-4.

NW. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECREF

SE 65-3458

LUKIANOV is believed to have departed from Canada

on September 23, 1946 in route to Moscow via New York.

He departed from New York on October 23, 19460.

According to records of the United States State

Department, he returned to the United States in

January 1949 as Secretary to the Soviet Delegation

to the International Conference on Wheat and

remained in this country until March 25, 1949.

Investigation during this latter period did not disclose

he was engaged in intelligence activities.

According to I-1, Miss BELOBRODSKI freely admitted former member-

ship with the Canadian Soviet Friendship League, also known as Canadian

Soviet Friendship Society and also with the Federation of Russian-Canadians.

With respect to the former, she claimed she was invited into the organization

by a friend and remained due to the fact she found it most interesting

and instructive and

she was able to contact interesting people. She said

she was interested in art, drama, and travel and in that organization she

met people of sinilar tastes.

With respect to the Federation of Russian-Canadians, Miss

BELOBRODSKI informed I-l that her mother who could speak no English and her

father had joined this organization shortly after their arrival in Canada

for the purpose of maintaining friendship with people of the same national

origin. She said that neither of her parents was interested in politics

but they found relaxation in the cultural activites of the Federation of

Russian-Canadians.

She said that she was able to satisfy her musical ambition by

belonging to an orchestra formed by the Russian-Canadians and through it

she was able to study the mandolin.

She claimed she had held no office

in either the Canadian Soviet Friendship League or in the Federation of

Russian-Canadians.

She said she had no knowledge of her brother WALTER's activity

in the Polish Democratic Society other than he was a member.

T-1 advised that Miss BELOBRODSKI claimed no connection with the

Canadian Soviet Friendship League as of March 1950, however, her name na

of that time still appeared on the letterheads of this organization. I-l

stated, however, this might have little significance as it was known that

this organization constantly continued to use the names of individuals

who had long since severed their connections with the organization.

I-l advised that Miss BELOBRODSKI was extremely well regarded

by the American Can Company where she was then employed in March 1950.

190

0670EC/62

SECRET

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

-5-

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-SECRET

SE 65-3458

According to the files of T-1, VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI entered

Canada at Quebec on July 13, 1929 and became a naturalized citizen on

her father's certificate ticket #26303 issued October 13, 1931. It was

stated her father was of Russian origin.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION

The following background information was observed in the files

of United States Immigration and Naturalization Service under number

A 8 901 319, on January 23, 1956:

Birth data:

A copy of a birth certificate

disclosed VALENTINA ONICK (maiden

name BELOBRODSKI) was born at

Szereszow, Poland, February 12, 1923.

Father:

Mother:

Origin:

Citizenship:

Language ability:

JOHN P. BELOBRODSKI

PAULINE KALINIEKO (maiden name)

Russian

Canadian

ONICK claimed to speak, read and

write, Polish, English, Russian

and French

Occupation:

Stenographer

The above file discloses that VALENTINA ONICK applied for immigrant

visa to visit the United States in March 1955.

Previous residences:

1923 to 1929 - Szereszow, Poland

1929 to 1941 - Youbou, British

Columbia, Canada

1941 to 1955 - Vancouver, B. C.,

Canada

Last permanent residence:

3919 Alice Street, Vancouver, B. C.

An immigration visa was issued her on August 19, 1955. She was holder

of Canadian passport #4-186747 issued June 8, 1951 and expiring June 8, 1956..

She entered the United States at Blaine, Washington by

automobile August 21, 1955.

FINANCIAL STATUS

The files of Immigration and Naturalization Service disclosed a

letter from the Bank of Canada, Commercial Drive and Gravely, dated

March 15, 1955, advised that she had a savings account containing $4,404.27.

This stated that no large deposits or

withdrawals had been made since the

account was opened.

191

SECRET

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

067DEC/62

6-

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

SE 65-3458

PRESENT EMPLOYMENT AND RESIDENCE DATA

On January 24, 1956, the reporting agent, using a suitable pretext

called FREDERICK ONICK'S office and someone in that office advised that

FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK is still employed as Assistant Field Director

of the American Red Cross in the 13th Naval District, Seattle, Building 208,

Pier 91, telephone Alder 5200, and that he still resides with his wife

VALENTINA, at 3717 - 26th Place, Seattle, telephone Alder 92440

CONTACT WITH CONFIDENTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS

Confidential security informants with knowledge of certain activities

and some of the membership of the Communist Party and related groups were

contacted and shown a photograph of VALENTINA ONICK and her husband

FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK, and these informants could not identify ONICK

and her husband and could furnish no information concerning them.

Confidential security informants familiar with certain activities

and some membership of the Socialist Workers Party in Seattle were

contacted and shown photographs of the ONICKS. These informants advised

that they were not acquainted with the NICKS and could furnish no

information concerning them.

INTERVIEW WITH FREDERICK WIGLIAM ONICK

BY UNITED STATES ARMY AT SEATTLE, DECENBER 12, 1955

By communication dated October 29, 1955, information was received

from Lieutenant Colonel JACK B. CAMFRON, 6th Army Headquarters, San

Francisco, that FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK was a Captain in the U. S. Army

Reserve, then assigned to the 6122 USAR Control Group, California

MIlitary District; his Army serial number being 0-368853.

FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK was interviewed under oath by a

representative of the U. S. Army at Seattle, Washington on December 12,

1955 at which time he provided the following information:

ONICK advised that he resided at 3717 - 26th Place West, Seattle,

Washington and that he was employed as Assistant Field Director, American

Red Cross, 13th Naval District Headquarters, Building 208, Pier 91, Seattle,

Washington. He advised that he held the rank of Captain, 0-468853, Infantry,

USAR, 6122 Control Group, California Military District, Presidio of

San Francisco, California. He advised that his father, WILLIAM FRED ONICK,

resides at 26 Rocklyn Court, Corte Madera, California, and that his

stepmother, MARY ONICK, nee SOKOLACKO, resides with him at that address.

He stated that his mother, ANISIA ONICK, nee SHUSTOFF, is deceased, and

MARY SOKOLACKO married his father in 1952.

ONICK stated that he married

VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI on April 28, 1955, in Vancouver, B. C. and that

she was residing with him in Seattle. He stated that he was formerly

married to VERA ONICK, nee ORLOFF, from whom he was divorced in 1949. He

stated that her present husband had adopted their child, whose name he did

not know.

067DEC/62

SECRET

Under existing laws

this correspondence

-7-

cannot be downgraded

NV. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-SECRET

SE 65-3458

(The Russian American Society (RAS), mentioned hereafter, has

been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 10L,50.)

ONICK expressed the belief that he initially associated with the

Russian American Society in 1945 when he attended social functions of the

Russian American Society at the Russian Embassy, San Francisco.

He stated

that he might have attended one or two other social gatherings of the

Russian American Society after 1945. He observed that he had never been

a member of the Russian American Society and that he participated in the

social functions "for the purpose of a social activity." ONICK advised

that from approximately 1942 until 1945, his mother and father were associated

with the Russian American Society for the purpose of giving aid and

assistance in the manner of old cothing for the Russian people. He expressed

the belief that they were not Russian American Society members although they

were closely associated with the Russian American Society. He advised

that his father had worked as head bartender at the Russian American Society

hall on Divisadero Street in San Francisco. He stated that neither of his

parents had been officials of the Russian American Society but that on

ceremonial occasions his father had been selected to hold the Russian flag

and he noted that his father had been selected for this purpose apparently

because he had an old Russian peasant costume.

According to ONICK, his aunt, ANNA BORDEN, nee ALEXANDROFF,

1915 York, San Francisco, was associated with the Russian American Society

during World War II, but terminated her activity in about 1945.

ONICK related that in approximately 1945, his father withdrew

his support of the Russian American Society because he felt that the

Russian American Society had served its purpose as a World War II

Russian aid group and his father, therefore, ceased participation in

Russian American Society social functions.

ONICK stated that he had never contributed financially to the

Russian American Society but expressed the belief that he had donated old

clothes to the Society•

He stated that none of his relatives have had

any connection with the Russian American Society since his father's

withdrawal in approximately 1945, to the best of his knowledge.

ONICK observed that he initially met VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI in

June or July 1951, in Vancouver, B. C., and that he became acquainted

with her through his aunt, ANNA BORDEN, an earlier acquaintance of his

wife. He stated he saw VALENTINA nearly every weekend from Christmas,

1954 until their marriage in April 1955. She was then employed as a Research

Chemist at the American Can Company and had held. that position for about

ten years. He advised that his wife is now employed as Secretary at the

Sylvania Radio Company, 3346 E. Marginal Way, Seattle.

He stated that

0670EC/62

19

-8-

SECRET

Under existing lawa

this correspondence

cannot be downgraded

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

SE 65-3458

his wife was born at Szereszow, Poland, on February 12, 1923 and

arrived in Canada when she was

six years of age. She is presently a

Canadian citizen. He advised that he was not acquainted with any organiza-

tional affiliation on the part of his wife.

ONICK was asked if he would care to make a statement concerning

his beliefs regarding Communism and he advised that "There may be something

good about it, there may be something good about the English Government

or any other

government or, on

the other hand, there may be something

bad about it. I have never had a taste of it so I really don't know." He

indicated that some people may like Communism as a form of government

and "some people may not, but it is completely foreign to my own type of

government." He was asked if he believed Communism would be a threat to

the American way of life and he stated, "Communism is not a threat to

the American way of life, there is not any reason to be scared of them,

that's for sure." He was questioned regarding his sentiments concerning

legislation outlawing the Communist Party and he advised that "as far as

I am concerned it makes no difference to me because

I am not interested

DESCRIPTIVE DATA

According to the files of T-1, VALENTINA ONICK was described as

follows:

Race:

Sex:

Eyes:

Hair:

Build:

Height:

Weight:

Employment:

White

Female

Blue

Light brown

Medium

5° 5"

*22:118 Ibse

December 1955 - Secretary;

Sylvania Radio Company

3346 East Marginal

Way, Seattle.

Residence:

3717 - 26th Place West, Seattle.

Photographs of VALENTINA ONICK and FREDERICK WILLIAM ONICK are

maintained in the Seattle Office file.

CROUP 1

Excluded fron automtio

downgrading and

-P-

declassification.

SECRET

194

SECRET

-9-

Under existing laws

this correspondence

cannot be drampraded

067DEC/62

NW 64954

Docld:34517371 Page 10

---

