# docid-32195954

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent

December 1, 1975

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

ALL INFORMANON CONTAINED

HEREIN 19

VA

IOLASSIFIED

DATE /O.

7/00 BY 5P02ALMKF

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs —

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell.

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. _

Training -

Legal Coun. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y _

Reference is made to SSC letter dated November 12,

1975, containing requests for materials conceming Martin

Luther King, Jr.

Pursuant to request in paragraph one of referenced

SSC letter, on November 17, 1975, a Special Agent of this

bureau, in the presence of sC Staff Member Andrew Postal,

reviewed the file of martin Luther King, Jr., and related

tiles for the months of November and December, 1964, for

materials pertinent to the sse inquiry not previously re-

Materials being furnished herewith which are

designated as item 1 are those documents requested by tosta.

as a result of this review.

During the review,

Postal indicated a desire to have

copies of all materials designated as Item l. It was pointed

furnished the Committee in connection with other requests.

rostal indicated, however, that he was generally unfamiliar

with prior materials furnished in connection with the King case

and was desirous of obtaining all items he selected, even

though many might duplicate earlier FBI submissions.

For dup at a the pie to be Po eat lude Seton

requested documents are being furnished despite the fact that

a number of the documents have previously been made available

to the SSC.

Materials designated Item 2 are being furnished in

response to request set forth in paragraph two of referenced

SSC letter of November 12, 1975.

PEN: adn ads nation otaile voi? Commistec.

I'his document as prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

Its use is limited to offical broccedings by

vour Commi: e and the content may not be disclosca to uïc.thcriaed @erson-

NEL WORIGINAL NSS ONE TO A the FBI

135

pos

716393

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

54199

COME ATTACHER

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

A search of the Martin Luther King, Jr., and related

files failed to result in the positive identification of

material prepared by the Domestic Intelligence Division sub-

sequent to April 23, 1964, in refutation of Martin Luther

that date to Mr. Belmont captioned "Communist Party, USA,

Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters IS-C®

delivered herewith.

It may be surmised, however, that a document under

preparation in the then Domestic Intelligence Division in April,

1964, entitled "Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist

Influence in Racial Matters,"

represents the material referred

to in Mr. Sullivan's memorandum of April 23, 1964. That

document is a lengthy work paper which was periodically brought

up to date to show every facet of information available re-

garding communist influence in the racial

movement and does

contain

Information in refutation of King's statement of

April 23, 1964, which in essence challenged the FBI to provide

evidence regarding the comminist infiltration in the racial

movement.

A copy of this document was furnished the SSC by

memorandum dated October 6, 1975.

With respect to the excisions in materials being

delivered herewith, where no

notations appear as to reason for

excision, the excision was made for the reason that the infor-

mation actually summarizes or quotes from conversations monitored

during electronic surveillances of King.

In some cases, it

can be ascertained precisely what information in FBI files came

from electronic surveillances of King; however, there exist

areas where documentation of the information is not precise

and no accurate determination can be made.

Therefore, no

assurances can be given that portions of the materials being

furnished do not contain information developed as a result of

electronic surveillances of King.

1 - The Attorney General

-

2

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20550

NOV1 4 1975

M! g

TO :

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel.

Division

Federal

Bureau of

Investigation

„Наком:

Michael

E. Shaheen,

JI.

Special

Counsel

for Intelligence

Coordination

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Request

Attached is a November

12, 1975, letter from the

senate Select Committee requesting certain intormation

concerning the Martin Luther King matter during the

months of November and December 1964. Please prepare

an appropriate response.

CC:

Paul Daly

ALI TEL EAORIXATTION CONTAIVISD

втор р 722414)

1 At tae

16-17-75

60.4,33-1199)

ENDS DREI

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 3

---

## Page 4

or rr6..1Cedn, CH4110464

?і.? д мідні. сі0...

land? G.o. 119

r.11!11=01

.. as. 250., M7.

TRID-BIEK A. O. SCHAARI.

CUNTIS REMOTHERS.

cOUNSE:

@Criteù States Senals

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERGMONTAL ORERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(OLOSUANT 1O 5. HIS. 11, PITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

November 12, 1975

Michae? E. Charded, Sir, 2ag.

Citise os

ine Deputy Actorney

Cereral

5. Departrent

justice

=^.

20532

Dear Me. Shaheen:

connection with

the king matter and our

forthcoming hearines

next weex, wa need to nave a

complete

understandine of all

actions, decisions,

Proposals, recommendations and operations of FBI

personnel

with respect to Dr. King during the months

oE Wovenber and December 1964.

Accordingly, I would

appreciate your asting the Bureau to designate a

merresentative ino

can go through the FBI files for

100s2

monons relating

to ring with Mr. Epstein of our

sometime chis reek.

In the event that the

¿ovenber-December 1964 portions of the files contain

materials pertinent to our inquiry, but which we have

nob vet reguested, I trust that it will be acceptable

50 10u Eer

such meteriais to be designated by Mr.

Eastern at tre

tine of the revie: for delivery to

the Committee.

I would also appreciata your making available

this week all memoranda and other materials reflecting

proposais made or actions taken which pertain to the

handwritten note which appears

on the bottom of the

4/23/64 memoranaum from Mr. Sullivan to Mr. Belmont

captioned "Martin Luther King" (serial #352), to wit:

"4/23 DA 6 pm I told him we are working up materials

as to what action should be taken and what reply

should be made. He agreed."

Your continued cooperation is appreciated.

Sincerely,

ALL FBI D

LATE /0/2110

LATION CONTAINED

SPLAMED

John T. Elliff

Director

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

ENOses: 62116395-1199

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 4

---

## Page 5

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

Addressee:

[ Memo

I Report

dated

12/1/75

S.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE.

Caption of Document:

11/12/75 request

FBI

Reghard 1: 10p

12/4/15

Received by:

Title:

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATELO 2

ENCLOSURE

62-1163951199

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

YOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO :

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

" Hor

PROVIDED

check

review

appropriate term.

If a document was made available

not transmitted,

note.)

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

12/1/75

3: TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

SSC

HSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum and enclosures

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in

response

to formal request, other-

wise state verbal

request of (name), initiative,

subpoena, etc.)

6. CLASSIFICATION OF

INFORMATION (enter,

U, C,

TS or

Codeword)

SSC letter 11/12/75

S

7.

KEY

WORDS

(enter the appropriate key

words

from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

used underline

for emphasis)

Information handling

Surveillance, electronic

8.

SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this

item)

Materials relating to Martin Luther king, Jr., as they pertain to

the months November-December of 1964. These materials were

reviewed by a Special Agent in the presence of an SSC Staff

Member for materiels pertinent to the SSC inquiry not previously

requested.

ALL INFORMATIOS CONTAINED

62-116395

FMK: fmk

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

3791(6-751

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 6

---

## Page 7

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted.

Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

NWV 66262 Docld:32195954 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SSC LETTER

11-22-75

ITEM 1

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Retain

5411199

ENCLOSURE

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 8

---

## Page 9

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0/27/00 RYSP2ALMKK

Toison

Alch:

DElETED to Protect onlity of

1 - J. F. Bland

sebat, testen (100-3329) Fritisly filiN 5021/641

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Director, FI (100-106670) 6=3

1 - F.

J. Baungardner

(Field Supervision)

1. - M. Gregorio

1 - s. F. Phillips

Reurairtel 12/10/64 which furnished information

concerning the activities of Martin luther king, Jĩ., and

a representative of his, sayard Bustin, while abroad.

Consicerable valuable intelligence is contained in reairtel.

for example, it is reported that bustin was in contact with

Rica Rodreson and Esue Goldberg. Hodgeson and Golüberg are

described,

according to a source, as "openly declared

-:

• (.

coumunists."

It is aiso reported that fing specifically

asked that Dr. David Pitt be present at a particular reeting.

Pitt is described as a Trotskyite. Fustin's contact vith

Comittee for Denocratic Rights in Auerica is also reported. ?

Refer to your file 100-2301.

It appears that you way be

ablo to appropriately characterize this organization.

Pertinent disseminatable information should have

23

been submitted by letterhead memorandum (Lal). Your

attention is directed to Bulot 1/24/64 to Legat, Benn,

copy designated for your office, "Legal Attache Reporting."

Your attention was directed to certain Bureau Manual

instructions and specifically to the undesirable tendency

on the part of some legats to fail to report investigative

83

5! I

Cord

results

in Lul form,

even though the material obviously

necessitated dissemination.

cop

micüri

By return communication submit an Will Incorporating

the positive intelligence concerning associations of king

and Bustin with subversives.

Foregoing instructions must be ever borne in

mind in your day-to-day handling of intelligence of interest

to the Bureau which obviously will require dissemination.

ut.

sisd

. 1.31

Mains

V

ELETYFE UNIT

MAILED 30

DEC 1 8 1964

COM.M-FBI

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 9

---

## Page 10

FD-36

13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

SECRET

FBI

Date:

12/10/64REC- 34

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priorizy or Method of Mailing)

(100-106670)

(100-3329) (P)

DIRECTOR, FBI

Ed FROM:

LEGAT, LONDON

ALL INFOR FION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SM - C

to 20485041

In accordance with Bureau instructions, I personally o

furnished orally to Ambassador TIBBETTS: American

Embassy, Oslo

information concerning subject.

This was done on

11/30/61.

Miss TIBBETTS stated

She was most appreciative of this informa

tion and that she would take no action whatsoever which night y

disclose her knowledge of such.

She said that she was giving :

i's

a small reception for KING and his broup on the evening of

12/2164.

He is to receive

the Nobel Peace Prize on 12/10/64.i

On the evening of 12/11/64 the Ambassador is giving a formal

reception for KING,

the Nobel Committee and Norwegian Government

officials.

SIFIED RY SIZALK

On 12/2/64 I furnished orally the same information

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

U.S. Ambassador PARSONS

furnishing this information to him.

He stated he had originally!

$

intended to meet KING on his arrival at the Airport in Stockholms

on 12/12/64.

He said this was somewhat unusual in that he

normally does not meet this type of group.

After reflection he

stated he would not personally go to the airport but would send

a representative from the Embassy.

According to Ambassador

PARSONS, KING was to preach at a local church in Stockholm and

then was to meet with a student group.

On 12/5/64 I furnished the same information, orally,

to U.S. Ambassador WHITE in Copenhagen, Denmark.

MrS. WHITE

was also appreciative of the information and commented it was

very helpful to know this, even though she would take no

specific action as a result of it.

She was planning to give

a small reception for Dr. KING while he was in Copenhagen

10810r? 2002.

Quad 101 you

REG- 34

3 i Bureau

165-

Чм! со 808н8

13-638

-I Liaison (sent direct): :

3 - London (100-3329, 100-1535,134-28)

28

for 2

CWB.: vw

Apprasa

Sent

1D DEC-25 1954

FdOD

J "BC. Frick

Special Agent in Charge

SEGRI

pride

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SEGRET

London 100-3329

Newspaper clippings regarding subject are being

forwarded to the Bureau

separately.

that BAYARD A 64 renash sent one Shot ised

and had departed for. New York on 11/14/64.

According to MI-5:

RUSTLY had been in contact with a group row is cho aren

opposes apartheid in South Africa.

are south African Communists in the movement. (

On 11/25/64 VICTOR DOLLING (Bufile 134-12282)

advised that

RUSTIN had been in contact with COLLINS and had

arranged for KING to speak at a Christian Action meeting on

12/7,64 in London.

was in London

The was

DO LEAFE COLDE, 18 Se

informed that chile FestIy

band received

a litesentence in South Arrica for

anti-apartheid

acts. RuSTly also saw Rich HOpeSOy.

According to DOLLiNG.

HODGESON and GOLDBERG are openly declared Communists. DOLLING

stated RUSIIN was also in contact with the Committee for

Democratic Rights

in America.

RUSTIN met RAYMOND KUNERE, who

is a member of the African National Congress.

On 12/8/64 DOLLING reported that he attended the

Christian Action meeting where KING spoke on 12/7/64.

This

meeting was covered by American TV and radio people.

There

was a large

crowd.

Prominent

at this meeting were

PEGGY "DUFF,

who represents

the "Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (DUFF

was mentioned in Bucab 11/10/64). Also present at the meeting

waS Dr.

AMBROSE REEVES, the Bishop of Johannesburg.

According :

tO DOLLING KING specifically asked that Dr. DAVID PITT, a

West Indian,

be at the meeting.

PITT represents the Afro-Carib-

bean Association and according to DOLLING, is a Trotskyite. tS

DOLLING also stated that after the meeting a middle-

aged American inquired as to the cost of hiring the hall.

When töld how much it was, this American wrote out a check

for the full amount.

DOLLING attempted to l00k at

to identify

the American but was unable to do so.$

We are checking further with MI-5 for any pertinent

information which they may have obtained regarding

subject's

visit to England.

The Bureau will be kept advised.

-2-

SECRET

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PRIEST

made cat

SECRET

SAC, Atlanta (100-5586)

12/11/64

Director, FBI (100-106670)

MARTIN LUTI

KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

1

- Mr. Phillips

1

- MI.

Rushing

1

Mr.

Forsyth

- Mr. Coakley

NED

CATION OC:

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Rebulets 11/9/64, 12/7/64 and 12/10/64.(S)

The Bureau has reconsidered instructions set

forth in referenced 12/7/64 letter that the data from

¿the Central Intelligence Agercy (CLA) regarding King's

¿alleged meeting with merbers of the Italian Commnist

Party and Socialist Party in Italy in Septerber, 1954,

be included in an investigative report with the source

evaluated as "unreliable."

The prime reason for these

instructions was to correct the previous characterization

given CLA of it

source, which was "of questionable

reliability."

ASSIFIED BYS

ECLASSIFY ON: 25X

#Ö

In this respect, the Bureau assumes that

neither Atlanta nor New York has disseminated this:

information. However, if such dissemination has been

made, the Bureau should be furnished with full details

and appropriate communication should be forwarded to the

recipients in order to show CIA's revised evaluation

of its source.

If no such dissemination has been made,

this data should be clearly marked in your files to show

that no dissemination should be made unless this

information is

verified through independent sources and/or

irvestigation.

loison

selmont

lohr

eLnach

casper

alichon

Contes.

vans

ale

osen

alilvan .

1 - New York (100-136585)

131 - 75

100-106670-604

MAILED'&

GDC: mlf

(8)

Mr. it

DE:1.1.054

$ 10910 DEL 15

DEC The

61

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

.. л

52041

i;.

=131.

$

1109.100

rio

; 20o0.011

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 12

---

## Page 13

December 2, 1964

BY LAISON

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Tolso.

Mer:

Callanen .

Corras

Evans

T:'e

5.1704

The President

The White House

Washington, D. C.

My dear vir. President:

* In response to his request to see me, conferred

for about an hour with the neverend tartin Lucer hing in my outce

yesterday afternoon. He was accompanied by the following members

oi the Southern Christian Leadership Conterence at which he is

Presidant: haverend walgh D. Abernathy, Treasurer; Andrew J.

Young, -Program Director; and valter E. Fauntroy, Director of tie

organization's trashington, D. C., office.

The meeting was most amicable and King indicated

that he had requested to see me in an effort to clear up any mis-

understandings that we might have. he apologized for remariss

attributed to him criticizing the FEl and me with specific reference

to Albany, Georgia. He stated that in khis connection he had either

been misquoted or there had been an outright misrepresentation.

He said that while some Negroes have complained to

hirthatche FEI has been incifective in investigating civil rights

Viciations, he personally aiscounts such complaints and said ne

appreciated the fine work the fil has been doing in this regard.

200.O SS710a

i'ni

82.

rs,

i.,

Лід ж:?

He said he had been critical of the FBI only in

connection with instances where our Agents, who had been jurnished

complaints involving police brutality, were, thereaiter, observed

is i ditt

Mg.

Belmont (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Miss Gandy (Sent with cover memo!

Mr.

Mohr

1 - Miss Holmes (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Mr. Rosen (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Mr. Jones (Sent with cover memo)

1'= My. Sullivan (Sent with cover nemo)

1 - Mr. Morrell (Sent with cover memo)

NOTE: Sea DeLoach to Mohr Memo of same date,

captioned "Martin Luther King.

Appointment with Director, 3:35p.m., 12RtG61"/üsT-

-GTQ:bhi and smg. (11)

11 DEG 1.6 1967

56 DEC 31-1964

L!

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 13

---

## Page 14

The President

being friendly toward these same officers. He said situations like

this serve to breed Negro distrust for the FBI. I advised

Reverend King that I was avare that allegations of this nature

had been made and that I had looked into the matter. It was

determined that these charges were without basis.

Reverend King categorically denied ever having made

a personad attack on mie and also denied that he had ever instructed

Negroes not to cooporate with the ral. I told nim that when Negroes

are encouraged not to cooperata with the FBI, the solution of cases

is delayed and sometimes frustrated. He said, to the contrary, he

encouraged such cooperation. He explained that Negroes in Liany

areas are irastrated. he said he feels it is his duty to deep them

from expressing tieir frustrations through violence. reverend King

tuade reierence to my report to you on the rioting that took place in

soine of our northern cities last summer. he indicated he considers

it an exceilent analysis of the situation.

Cornunist infiltration of the civil rights movement

was diecussed. Reverend King stated that as a Christian he could

never accept communist and that he shared my concern with the

probiem. He described communism as a "crippling, totalitarian

disease. " He said that while there are "one or two" former com-

munists currently engaged in lund-raising activities for the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, lie does not tolerate communists in

his organization. He cited the communist background of Hunter Pitts

O'Dell and noted that he considared the success of the Southern Christian

Leadership Conterence more important to him than his friendship with

O'Dell. Consequently, he claimed, O'Dell is no longer associated

with his organization.

- 2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 14

---

## Page 15

The President

The probiems confronting the FEl in civil rights

investigations were explained to the leverend King in detail. I

mace it clear to hic that cases developed as a resuit of I5I

investigation must oiten be tried in local courts where there are

cuticulties invoired la getting white juries to convict wiite

defencants in connection with civil rights matters. I cited some of

our experiences in this regard.

He and his associates were advised of the recent

conferences held for local law entorcement officers throughout the

United itates for the purpose of fully acquainting them with civil rights

legislation and their responsicilities in connection with same. I told

him tiat the resuits of this campaign have been encouraging in the

cooperation received.

I pointed out to him that there is a great misunderstanding

today among the general public and particularly the Negro race as to

the säl's role in ci:il rights matters. i empeasized that the FElls aa

Investigative a ency, that it cannot recommena prosecution or mase

on-tie-spot arrests where i eueral laws have not been violated. He

was advised that the fol will not protect civil rights workers or

Negroes because the rEl does not have the authority or jurisdiction

to do so. Lie was also advised that the f Bi cannot and will not

exceed its authority. Reverena jing was told that our investigations

are conuucted in a thorough and impartial manner, but if he or any of

bis associates knew of a Special Agent wao had shown bias or prejucice,

I wanted to know about it immediately.

Reverend King incicated that the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference is planning to engage in voter registration

activities in telma, Alabama, on or about January 1, 1905, and that

be has learneu that there could be violence. I told him that our Agents

would be on the scene, not for the purpose of rendering protection,

but to observe and report to the Department of Justice any possible

violations of civil rights that may occur,

i

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 15

!

---

## Page 16

....

The President

Reverend King expressed his gratitude for having the

opportunity to meet me. Ee said he telt our meeting had been a

productive one, and I tolu him to ieel iree to get in touch with me any

time he thougnt it necessary to do so.

Respectfully submitted,

-4-.

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 16

---

## Page 17

J'olson

Salmon:.

Harr

veLouch.

Cargot

Cailanen

Evons

Gole

Roren

70 DEC

deters.

On 1027050 MDAMN

December 2, 1964

BY LIAISON

1 - Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. DeLoach

Honorable Bill D. doyers

Special Assistant to the President

-

-

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Rosen

The White House

IT .

Sullivan

Washington, D. C.

Mr. Blaad

-

Ar.

Baungardner

Dear Mr. Moyers:

1 - sr. Phillips

Subject to Criminal

Unauticized Dis

NATIONAL SO0J2.TY

I thought that the President would like to haven

the following iniorration concernin, Martin Lister King,

which

was obtained Iron contidential sources who have

nd.

Tin.

supplied rollable information in the past.

KIDSL

110 15

to receive the 400el Peace rize in -

corsay, Laceaber

- 10 г..

1954,

do preparation bi a tige-inute acceptance speech.

* Is currently vorking on -

has requested several indivirums to furnish him materiap

from which he

intends

to choose the best things to say. -

Included arous these contribators are Clarence Jones,

Stanley David Levison,

Harry Wachtel and Bayard Rustin.

All four of these individuals are irequent

advisors to King.

Jones, in the mid-1950's, held a position os

leadership in the Labor Youth League, an organization which

has been designated as subversive pursuant to Executive

Order. 10450.

the Communist Party,

As o2 suly society

Wachtel is the Executive Vice

President of the Ganchi Society for Hunan Richts, a fund.

ralsing adjunct of the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference, which Conference ig heaced by King.

On March 5,

1944, a source of this Direau advised that wachtel's name

was on a list of names, significance not known, maintained

at the

nesdquarterg of

the Kings County Connunist Party,

New York.

The same source also advisad on March 5, 1944,

that the nane of lachtel's wife, leonora, was naintained

on & list of names of newly elected officers of the data

Beach Club,er the

Kings County Cormunist 'Party, New Fork.

100-100970

SECRET

SEE NOTE PAGE THO

Group 1

(11)

Excluded fron sutonatio

BEC 23/25-706673

dawgraving and

131

1964

declassification

74

M.C

ALL TELETYPE UNIT

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SEE

Honorable Bill D. Moyers

Rustin is a formar member of the Young communist

League, an organization which has been designated es subver

sive pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

This information is also being furnished to other

officials of the Government.

NOTE:

Sincerely yours,

Classified "Secret" as

the infornation is fron

highly sensitive sources such as A sala*. The unauthorized

disclosure of this information could atfect the security

of these sources who are of continuing value and thus

possibly be injurious to the national defense.

Infornation

obtained from MYtel 11/25/64 and ATtel 11/27/54.

Dissenination

to the nilitary intelligence

agencies being made by separate

communication.

...

!

mrra...

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 18

---

## Page 19

6:51 p. 10.

Docember 1, 1984

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoush

Casper

Callahan

Contad

Ev.ir.3

Gale

Rosen

Sulilvan

Tavel

Trotter

Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

JASSIF SPR ALMA

MENOHANDUA FOR MR. TOLSON

VIR. BELMONT

KiR. MORN

BAR. DE LOACH

MR. ROSEN

9

Acting autorney Ooneral avicholas deb. Katzensach

without the express

I advised hir. Katzenbach that I took the ball away

from hing at the beganing, that king was most laudatory about

the burcau's work and so was abornathy. I fartner auvised

approval

Pur, iatzenuach that ding had a press statement already written

out to hand the newsmen in iry roesption room; that I rcfused

to maxe any commont o: statement mycell; that icing read his

Cance and the content man not

tion rician yell Committee.

This

returned my cartier coil to him and I auvised him that i had

seen Or. Martin luther alag, who was accompanied by

ur. Abernatly and ta otner cohorts. I stated that ling mas a

very persuasive speader and dir. Latronoach Indicated ding

was a gocat public speaces anu that was about au be coulu say

for sing.

Its 1'63

document is picnared in response to

statement sout having an open channed of communications and

all working for civil riguts. I stated that King did not have in

ble

press statement the very commendatory romariss he made,

that ne coul not have been higher in his praise of the Bureau

and of the great joo we have done in the south. Vir. batzenbach

said that was too bad.

I told Wir. lintzenbach that I just wanted him to

know that I had gone througa with it.

Mir. Katzenbach then asked if i were going to tell

the President about the situation in visaisslopi - about the

arrests - at some polat. I answered yea, and hir. Katzenoach

Eald the resident should ve inforced. I adulaed him that we

bad not decided wuen it wid be done,

that it is being considered.

REC 14C: -106670-5613

ipclosed is unauthorized person

your request and as not for disseme

JEH:rm, (9)

pen

XEROX

:964

111 DEC 3

1964

3 DEC SINGA

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Memorantum for Messrs. Tolson, Belmont,

December 1, 1964

lohr, Deloach, Rosen

Mr. Katzenbach stated my people had discussed it with him and

he thought the way the bureau proposes to go ahead is the rigit

way. I said I tacught so, too. Air. liatzenbach said he had toid

Jim valley this and suggested that I tell the President that the

Department had approved this way. Air. Latzenbach stated it

was such a great job the bureau people did down there he would

like the President to hear it irom me.

Very truly yours,

J.E. H.

John Edgar Eoover

Director

SENT FROM D. O.

DATE

BX —

The should send Datinback.

Ithite House.

A.

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 20

---

## Page 21

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS/ UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1012

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN. MEG. NO. 28

UNITED STATES GU' NMENT

Memorandum

-

HIT.

Belmont

Mr.

1

Mohr

-

HT. DeLoach

:W. C. Sullivan

DATE:

11/30/64

1 - Mr. Rosen

:

F. J. Baumgardner

]

sr. Sullivan

Liaison

J. F. Bland

olson -

MchE

Debor

Cases

Callahan -

Conrad -

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullival

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. P.oom

Holmes -

Gandy -

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR:

1

1

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

-S. I. PhiliapS

Baungardner

me celerine to pintel

ANA

4416

Memorandum from D. J. Brennan; Jr., to Mr.

if tires fine

11/13/64, recommended, and the Director approved, that Legat

Sullivan,

Bates, London, be authorized to orally brief the United States

Ambassadors in London and Isle concerning Martin Luther King, Jr.

The briefing was concerning both the communist influences on

King and King's

Bates had requested such

permission because de anticipated that the Arbassadors agat

consider entertaining King while he is in Europe to receive the!

Peace Prize and Bates believed he could forestall such

action by the Ambassadors if they were briefed.

Assistant Legat Minish tenden, telephoned early

today (11/30/64) and advised that Bates would also like to

Brief our Ambassadors at Stockholm and Copenhagen as King is to

lso visit these cities.

The Legat's office, London, will

telephone again via cost-free defense facilities tomorrow (12/2/64)}

Our Ambassador at Stockholm is a career Minister,

Eitus white.

Graham Parsons.

The Ambassador at Copenhagen is Mrs. Katherine

We have nothing unfavorable in our files

these two Ambassadors which would preclude giving them the same,

concerning:

briefing we previously gave the Ambassadors at London and Os1o..

Our relations with the Ambassadors are friendly and it is

belleved that Bates should be permitted to brief them.

RECOMMENDATION:

If approved, we will tell Bates that he may orally

brief our Ambassadors in Stockholm and Copenhagen along the

same lines as he previously briefed the Ambassadors at London

and Osto. Upon approval this memorandum should be routed to

facilities.

Liaison for the necessary advice to Bates via cost-free telephone

100-106670

V..01

SFP: jad

(10)

179 DEC8-1964

156670-

REC- 3411 DEG 4

1964

3.78

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 21

---

## Page 22

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

1010-108

her tree collan

35: GRAi. HEG. 110.21

UNITED STH.T.

INMENT

Menorar.cum

"Beimon:

Monr

Denocch-

•asper --

callcher

PA

FROM

wir. Mohr

DATE.

Novs woer IT: 1964

Gair.

:C. D. DeLoach

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT ROY WILKINS

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT

OF COLORED PEOPLE (NAACP)

APPONTMENT 11/27/54

FBI HEADQUARTERS

WASHINGTON, D. C.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Roy Wilkins, Executive Secretary, National As sciation for the

-úvancement of Colored People, called me from New York a: 14:55 p.m. today.

He

stated that he had to fly down to Washingion to see me enemately. He asked i i

had any available time. He apologized for attemptin, io i-age an appointment i. what

he termed a "holiday weekena." I told him the "holiday vi send" made no differerce

to us and that despite his unwarranted statements concernin; the Director and the i 31,

I would sit down and talk to him.

Wilkins arrived at 4:00 p.m. He stated that he was greatly concerned.

| He made reference to the Director's Loyola speech last Tuesday, 11/24/64, in which

the Director had made reference to "sexual degenerates" in pressure groups. Wilkins

stated he personally knew about whom the Director was tilsing, although many other

Negroes did not know. Wilkins added that he had receivec a least three newspaper

inquiries during the past two days from individuals inquiri:- as to whether King was a

sexual degenerate or not.

Wilkins told me that he personally did not mine sce:

King ruined.

Hel

stre the cavit rant a movement water, e ever, weltin act sat

wing was ruined

Wilkins stater ine personally

that King was a 'liar" and that he had little respect for hi...

quoted an example

ci is wife stating last night at a Thanksgiving dinner with friends,

ten being asked iffl

sis linew of the terrible tnings that "Edsar Hoover had said abous arrend King being e

iar." Mrs. Wilkins replied, "This doesn't surp. se me becaisa gis an"

wins continued that while King is no good, his ru: ation will sy.

tr down:

pi.

¡catire civil rights movement.

110-106670

NOT RECORDED

Wilkins told me that despite 1&@ÉE 18795455-0:

re sexual degere

OLGINA!

agat ons and communist allegations against

-i-j, many of

lio associate:

Tolson

Belmont

lose::

enclosure

Thirdent's

1

ali: n

1310?...

1

'"!:

Mincorni.

I0s 30;

is016

nes

SDEC 247964

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 22

---

## Page 23

DeLouch to Monr Meino, 1/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/54

FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

wouid jump to the defensive and defend King. On the other hand, however, many of the

white people who believe in the civil rights movement and who yearly contribute from

$500 to $50, 000 to this movenient will immediately cease their financial support.

Wilkins added that the loss of financial support will de tremendous, however, the loss of

faith in King by millions of Americans would be even vorse. Fit stated the combination

of the two would, of course, halt any further progress of the civü rights movement.

Wilkins told me that he and a number of the Negro leaders had attempted

several months ago to get King to accept the presidency of a enali college.

He stated

King had refused to do this because he was accustomed to the hypocrisy of aculation

and to the money that was pouring in to him. He state nat King for some time now has :

received from $500 to a $1, 000 per speech on the jeeze circust

He mentioned that

King receives considerable support from wealthy Negro and stue peopie alike. He

stated that obriously the best thing that the Negro leaders coid is now would be to get

King to accept a position as Pastor of a large legro church sid thereby retire forever

las a leader of the Negroes.

Wilkins stressed the fact that he was nü. Stp'ig.re as an emissary. He

stated he had some influence on King but not much.

": do that there were others

within his movement who had greater influence and that pe trus i ither some pressure

could be brought on King. Wilkins then added that he hoped crad tre FBI would not

expose King before something could be done.

I interrupted Wilkins at this point. I told him. the Director, of

course, did not have in mind the destruction of the civi. rights mc cent as a whole.

I told him the Director sympathized with the civil rights novare as exemplified by the

Director's supervision vi the FBI's many brilliant ace uplishmoris in this field. I

added, however, that we deeply and bitterly resented ine lies aru la senoods told by

King aid that if King wanted war we certainly would give it to him. Wilkins shook his

hea: and stated there was 20 doubt in his mind as to which side would lose if the FBI

really came out with a fris ammunition against King. I told him the ammur a

was lentiful and that white we were not responsible for the many runors bei: tiated

agalast King, we had heard of these rumors and were certainly in susition tu

substantiate them.

I told Wilkins that inasmuch as e was attempting tir. out th a r

of peace he should know a few positive facts oi ile. He asked wha: - ¿ant.

birr my point was that he was attemptin.: op. vent the FBI from ex, sing Kin

ce: in highly-placed informants of ours had: ped us off to absolutely reliabir mior-

ma ion that King had organized a bitter : usa: against the Direstor a: the Fi

tolr Wilkins these long-standing and " :1 piced informants hadäi:. sed us i .

- 2 -

CONCENT D-SVER

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 23

---

## Page 24

DeLoich to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Foy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/64

•FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

had contacted people in various parts of the United States to get them to send telegrams

to the President, the Attorney General, and the FBI asking for Mr. Hoover's retire-

ment or resignation. I told Wilkins that King had also encouraged telegrams to kie

sent advising the FBI of laxness in the investigation of civil rights matters. I asked

Wilkins how in the hell could he expect the FBI to believe his offers of friendship ani

request for peace when King was at this time attempting to ruin us. Wilkins merely

hung his head and stated he had no idea that King was carrying on such a campaign,

He

stated that this upset him greatly and made him all the more determined to initiate

action to remove King as soon as possible.

Wilkins stated that he had long noted King's sympathy toward the

communist morement. He told me this obriously stemmed from Stanley Levinson's

influence on King. Wilkins diverted from the subject oi ine conversation to spend son a

time in explaining that he had also noied communist inilüence in the civil rights move-

ment in Mississippi.

He stated that the cry oi "Down with tre Proletariat" was getting

to be the bardeery of the militant Negroes in lassissippi anu roama. He mentioned

the same thing was true with respect to legro allegations si taxess on the part of the

FBl. He mentioned that the Negroes have been led by King and Sayard Rustin to

believe that the FBi could do nothing right; consecuently, FE: ¿ciacion of civil rights

cases made little impression upon some Negroes in the civil rints movement.

Wilkins stated he was wrong in his criticism o. the Erector. He added

that he was attempting to accomplish, in a mild manner, & division i etween the battle

of the Director and King and any phases of the battle which wouis isfiect upon the civil

rights movement. He stated he has a hard time controlling nis üt-ran Board of

Directors, particularly since King is a member o this board. He ther added, "We're

hurting, " and something must be done.

Wilkins told me that he will be lecturing in Ca ifornia rest all of next

week. He stated that before he leaves for the coasi he will attempt? ee King, along

with other Negro leaders, and tell King that he can't possibly wit at battle with the

FBI and that the best thing for him to do is to retire from punt. mie,

-e stated he

ma: no have any success in this regard, however, that he is son arced that the FBI

ca: easily ruin King overnight, therefore, for the good c. the civi rights cause King

should make definite plans to leave public life and merei, it Distor of a Negro church

in the future. I told Wilkins this, of course, was up to his:, Lewever, I wanted to

reiterate once again most strongly, that if King wanted we we were prepared o give

-3 -

CONTINUED-OVER

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 24

---

## Page 25

De Loach to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Aypointment 11/27/64

FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

it to him and let the chips fall where they may. Wilkins stated this would be most

disasterous, particularly to the Negro movement and thai re hoped this would never

come about.

I told him that the monkey was on his back and that of the other Negro

leaders. He stated he realized this. We then shook hands and he left to return to

New York.

ACTION:

connection with the above conversation. a

It is suggested that the attached letter be sent to the President in

4

-

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date: 11/25/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

1P one

NO: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670)

FROM: LEGAT, MONDON (100-3329) (P)

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SM - C

5'

#MDR-HO

CLASSIFIED BYSP2A

DECLASSIFY ON:

Remyairtel 11/13/64 and Bucab 11/10/64.

On November 19; 1964, in accordance with Bureau instruct-

ions, I orally furnished

approved portion of referenced Bucab.

to U. S. Ambassador BRUCE, in London the

The Ambassador was most

appreciative of this information. He advised that he would not

be in London at the time subject will be here, as he is going to

Washington with Prime Minister WUSON and other top preciude any

Government officials.

He said this would of course

meeting KING might desire to have with the Ambassador.(

On November 20, 1964, this matter was again discussed

with Sir ROGER HOLLIS of

He confirmed that the Prime

Minister would not be in

n London when subject was here and that

theretore the Prime Minister would not be meeting with KING. IS

MI-5 is conducting investigation regarding the activities

Legat will furnish

American Ambassador in Oslo on November 30, 1964. (S

Bureau informed.

We are closely COllowithin barANes will keep the

HEREIM IS UNCLASSIFED ERAS

VREG ASHOWN OTHERWISE

tay info

3

- Bureau

section (sent direct) /00-106670-555

2 - London

(0 - 200-1535) AlL DElETIONS to protect

wavite countales at offerints

NUT ME!

Thie

Approved:

Special Agent re Charge

i:

..i?

no to reen to my dies os

SEeD

conso be dialone io traitood persoir

j the FBl.

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 26

---

## Page 27

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-100

MAY 1969 EDITION

OSA GEN.

REG

NO. 27

UNITED STATE

MENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

преч

Tolson -

Imont

De Loach

Casper -

Callahan

Cairad -

ans -

Gale

DATE: November 24, 1964

FROM : Do J. Brennan, JIA)

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1:

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

D...

-Fe

Reference is made to memorandum Brennan to Sullivan in

captioned matter dated 11-23-64, wherein it was set forth that the

Bureau had no objection to State Department briefing the United

States Information Agency from material previously furnished State

resarding ting uneliding inforation concernin King's no i!

MI. Paul J. McNichol, Director of Security, USIA, advised

Liaison 11-23-64, that he had, on that date, been briefed by

Mr. Fred Traband, Office of Security, State, regarding King.

In

this connection, he stated that he desired to make a most urgent

request that he be furnished the material in possession of State

and any related material available regarding King. Mr. McNichol/

explained that currently top officials of USIA, namely Assistant

Directors, have under consideration an approach to king for the

purpose of"enticing him to accept a State Department grant under

USIA sponsorship for travel to Europe, Africa and the near Last,

such a trip to take place in early December.

McNichol emphasized

that he desires this material so that USIA officials can be adequately

briefed for the purpose of preventing any such assignment being,

offered to King by USIA.

REG- 55

106-106670-5-Emt)

- On being apprised de

the above, Assistant_to the Director

Belmont authorized the dissemination of reports and memoranda as

described above to USIA.

16 DEC 1

ACTION: -

This dooment is i'

restine

6/p.n

For Information. copiess annioval

i ma

1o5o

dinge by

piud verson-

204, R:C

FILED

UNKECORDED COPY

1

Belmont

MT: sullivan I Cattn. Mr

MI.

Baungardner

Liaison

Mr ®

McDonnell

XEROX

Phillips)

COPY SENT TO MR. TOLSON

1964

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 27

---

## Page 28

November 23, 1954

1.:,

Honorable Nicholas dez. Katzenbach

Acting Attorney Coneral

U. S. D partrent of Justice

Washingion, D. C.

Dear dir. Katzenoach:

I want go: to now how mica i

appreciate ine wanichearted samport which

jou eccoruca this Bureau and ma during

your press conference in land on friday.

Your caression ni cour dence in

our mints is indece graticing and y01 12g

be care that we will continus to Carry 01t

our responsibilities in the duture in a miarar

which will merit you approval.

With dest wishes and kind rezards,

Sincerely,

Edges

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DREN, 24/0 5 52AL MK

This docuene

ration

01:

mechaned in response to our request an? is noi for dissemi-

a Committed

scorens may not bu disclosed to unantiorized persoit

old the capress

approval of the fel

worsch.

fri

27 рін

51:F 11/23/12

79ĐEG 7-1964

HAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 28

insatabe its Mh2, it 1411

17.5-

-191

ORICINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 29

018-181

MAT 1P8Z IDITION

180, по. 28

UNITED STATES GOVEI

MENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Mohr

FROM : C. D. DeLoach

SUBJECT: ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL

NICHOLAS deB. KATZENBACH

REMARKS CONCERNING DIRECTOR

MIAMI, FLORIDA, 11-20-64

DATE: 11-20-64

'olson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conred

Evans.

Bosen.

Tavel.

Trotter .

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy.

1'5

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE!

DATE 10/2700 BY SP2AUMKP

2.

At 3:50 p.m. today SAC Frohbose of the Miami Office telephoned and

talked with Mr. Wick. He said Mr. Katzenbach had just finished a press conterence

in the United States Attorney's Office in the Federal Building in Miami. Mr. Katzen-

bach is in Florida to speak before the University of Miami Law School alumni

tomorrow.

At the conference, said Frohbose, were several Federal Judges,

other Federal officials and, of course, TV, radio, wire service anci local press

representatives.

At the press conference Mr. Katzenbach was asked if he thought J.

Edgar Hoover should retire after making remarks concerning King. Mr. Katzenbach

answered by stating Mr. Hoover should not retire, that he has complete confidence

in MIx. Hoover and he is one of the great Americans and a devoted public servant.

Katzenbach said that he hoped and prayed that Mr. Hoover would stay on.

The press asked what Mr. Katzenbach thought of Mr. Hoover's state-

ment calling King a notorious liar. Katzenbach said he would not add nor detract

from Mr. Hoover's statement and he would not comment on it further.

Mr. Katzenbach was asked if Martin Luther King's statement that the

FBI is not investigating civil rights matters in the South is true. Mr. Katzenbach

said King's statement is not true. He said the FBI has solved many cases and is

investigating cases and will continue to investigate civil rights cases wherever they

maybe. He said the FBI as well as Katzertach to not want cases to go unsolved.

87

1 - Mr. DeLoach

DEC 4 1964

1 - Mr. Tolson

-

1 - Mr. Jones

EC

1964

REW:cal

(5)

ONCITAL FILED D'I

11 2,5-64

..i3

Set is

do wooste

is t

HuSS

approdid of tie fal.

713,

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 29

---

## Page 30

Memorandum to Mr. Mohr

RE: Acting Attorney General

Nicholas deB. Katzenbach

Frohbose said Katzenbach backed up the Director 100 per cent and

his remarks were very well received by news media people.

Frohbose said that he has heard nothing but praise of Mr. Hoover

from news media people who are grateful to know Mr. Hoover said what is on his

mind.

RECOMMENDATION:

For recora purposes.

On 1120-64

-2-

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 30

---

## Page 31

JFK Law 10(a) 1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 31

---

## Page 32

JFK Law 10(a) 1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 32

---

## Page 33

JFK Law 10(a)1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 33

---

## Page 34

JFK Law 10(a)1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 34

---

## Page 35

OSTIONAL FORM NO. 10

-#L77 19SZ ISITION

ESA GEN. REG. NO. 31

UNITED STATES GOV EKNMENT

Memorandum

:

Mr. Mohr

DATE: November 19, 1954

Kfu

Casper.

Callahar.

Farrad -

Erons.

Gale

V.

Tavel

Trotter

Tole. Room -

Holmes

Gandy

cOM : C. D. DeLoach

IBJECT:

VAL COLEMAN

CORE READZUARTERS

NEW YORK CITY

Tiarlite,

santon tatter

King

Val Coleman of CORE Readquarters calies this morning and said

that CORE felt it had no alternative but to issue a statement in rebuttal to

Mir. Hoover's "intemperate" attack on Dr. King. Coleman said certainly he

and the CORE leaders considared the FBI as a friend oi theirs sure just could ?

not understand why fir. Hoover wouid lash out agains. a man lie Dr. ding,

and he acced that he wanted to let us inowfor the recozd thai cond ielt they

had to issue a strong staiement.

It was suggested to Cole an privately that he might rant to

back up and thin' a minute before he criticized the FBI severaly, that certainly?

Nir. Hoover hac not aitacked the civil rights movement, that ter.

Ecover had

on the other hand been vigorously critical of the low-type law enorcement

officers in the South who actually participated in civil rights violations and who

were a disgrace to the law enforcement profession. it was futer pointed out oa

to Coleman that ivr. Hoover's statement regarding King's assertion with respect

to the Albany, Georgia, situation was simply a matter oi calling a space a

space, and that clearly and obviously King had lied.

Coleman said he would think the matter over and that be would

SOCICA

want to modify his original statement. De concluded his call by seging that to

keep people nappy at CORE he would still have to release & "preit, strong"

statement.

Coleman said that he hoped to be down in washington witzin the

next ten days or so and would like to drop by and he was assured that we

would be glad to ials with him at any tinie. 1eo - 10661o

NOT RECORL

The above is for information.

141 DEC 4,504

11 DỆC

1964

-2109

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

WLASSIFIED

DATE /O

BYe

1 - 24r.

Rosen

1 - iMr.

Sullivag

1 - Mr. Jones

DEC

1964

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 35

110n

cutlin

---

## Page 36

Domestic Intelligence L. rision

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date _ 11-16-64

EXCISIONS

FOREIGN INfUICENCE

AGENy & CouNtRy

INVOlVED

This concerns information

we furnished to the British

concerning the background of

both Martin Luther King, Jr.,

and Bayard Rustin. It was in

connection with efforts being

made by King to see the British

Prime Minister Harold Wilson

when King passes through London

en route to usto, lerway, to

receive Novel Peace Prize.

SFP:fas

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

This document is prendred in response to you? request and is not for dessema-

nel. without. ine express approvat of the FBI

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 36

---

## Page 37

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

abri

Transmit the following in - .

Phia

AIRTEL

sil

FBI

Date:

November 13, 1964

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priorily or Method of Mailing)

(100-106670) BElOW EXCISING TO

effo

RE:

MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER-COMMUNIST

ReBucab 11/10/64

But t472 t it Get 3:0n IN. 1722149.

Forcian Intelliance Information contained in reBucab concerning subject

Machk and BAYARD RUSIIN was furnished on the morning of lovember 11, 1964,

advised that this

be given on a highly confidential basis

to prime Minister set.

& FFIA

On the morning of November 13, 1964, HOLLIS said this

information had been furnished to the Prime Minister.

HOLLIS FFIA

commented that he was indeed grateful to the Director for this

information.

extreme: value.

FFI

HOLLIS also advised that RUSTIN had arrived in Londen

on the morning of November 13, from the United states.

RUSTIN

told the Immigration authorities that he was in England to see

While in London, RUSTIN would be staying

at Friends International Center

32 Tavistock Square London. Co1

VI-S is covering RUSTIN's activities and this matter wiii be.

ollowed with MI-5 and the Bureau advised in e

scions dacit 1-47-159 anilies a ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

2,5

3 - Bureau

1 - Liaison Section (sent direct)

2

- Landon,

•(100-1535)

C 39

CWB: ec

8,31

artine rinite

EX-103.

21 NOV 16 1964

Theon da merced a pomore o your reces arch

not for dissent

nice to can medias by

and the socient may me: be ciscosed lo racinoried person

ANTROL

Approved:

Any 901954

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

CD • Wick

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 37

---

## Page 38

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

MiT 1862 POITION

€ЗА GE, REG.

NO. 77

UNITEL STATES GO!

'NMENT

olson -

Memorandum ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

ellent.

Mohr

DeLoach -

Casper

Callgh

rans

TO

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

(Gale

DATE: November 13, 1964

sullivan

FROM : MT. D. J. Brennan,

Mr. Do do Brennan, JE in liven to preters

a Truer

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

arterrican

AND EININVONNEL

11/13/64,

concerning the subjent's proposed

Legat Bates. London, telephoned

I travel abroad. Bates pointed

out that in view of subject's position as a mobel frize winner,

ne United States Ambassadors in both London and uste wil

ToDaDLy entertain him as the guest of honor at some social

Bates said he believes he can forestall this if ne

can orally brief our Ambassadors. He pointed out that the

Bureau has previously advised nin that we have no derogatory

data concerning these Ambassadors. abates will telephoneagalr

via cost-free defense facilities at approximately 2 a.m..

Saturday, 11/14/64, Washington time.

ACTION:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN

DATE 10/21,0 SY 5P2ALMKP

If approved, we will tell Bates that he may orally brief

the United States Ambassadors to London andosle concerning King•

The Ambassadors

connections and his

will be briefed concerning both King's cormunist

JEK Law 10(a)1 This briefing will be along

the are shes the one in the ester cortion of ture lucase

to the Legat 11/10/64, a copy of which is attached.

Enco

1 - Mr. Belmont

• - Mr. Mohr

Mr.

DeLOach

- Mr. Rosen

- Mr. Sullivan

Liaison

-

Mr. Bland

- Мг.

Baungardner

- MI. Phillips

ADVISED

A "BATES"

JASCA

WeSs

108-106-40701

10

GAD: kmj ^

(10)

66NOV 23 1966 0E

ENCLOSURE

#YONOV 17.1964,1

lO??

riasr3n7?...

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 30

---

## Page 39

Iicvenber 10, 1904

COIX

CATTNCRALE

NIEI ACRIC = 1. Belmont

Eciir

}

OUNtR.

TO ENGAT' LeRei

* IMDICATES DATA

Mori ml M

Fiea Dolucah

15 .

27023

L. I030n

Su1127an

TLOU DRDOTOS BAX (100-105670) (ENETN TENGAN 2 - 1.

1ia10n

BIZEd

LATETI LOXME LING, 20., 2560237Y

INiclhaence AnGoT CFhM) Esu5gaFacor

-3÷11155

ISENTT LUNIES KAIG, DUO, FOO ID IO PECHIVE TIS LOGRII

FEACE PRIZE INI OSTO, IOINAY, DECOIEER TOR, IUST, PAIS TO BE

I LODOY, RICLAO, DIEMDIR SIS AID SIYS, TIE: CI CE

CaNT

IIS ADVISCIS, EIVATD LUSZEY, MAS COLCAOZAD EEEGY EURT, A

LOSTOR TESIDETT VÃO IE LIICURZE DEECUIST, CULENICY 20I IUCIEIE

DISARIASIRTE, IUCTIN IODIERIED IET 2O A2EIET 1O ATRGIGE TOB

PUEC HNISTER TATOIO VILOCK O IODIVD FINEA. EUSZIY DSTES

IT NOT APPEAD &S SECUCL TIIS IO ENIS'S IDEA AND FIDITRS HEZSON

NO AXTCUNCI TIAT VILSCT IS INVITIID NEG. DUTT GEGTUVE 3I03

TIIS LANTER.

SUSTIY IS DERIITTNG FOR ICRESY NOVILOCH EUIVIS, MESI,

Subject to Criminal Sanctiong

Unauthorized. Disclosure

GIII E, EATZ DIIEACONIGO NOZERUICO V DVENITUVIO EO JECUUCE EDE

IN ISCELIEE: CONUSION IIYOIVIS TICT IILAE ASCHRZENGP CE

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

CASTURLUEY DEDIRES TO RICCIVS EZI DUT EAS DUGE OZFASID EE

OPPELZO . DElETIAS TO PrOTECI IDEITIFIER DI FILENDLY FoReIg?

INtellvacneedennice, CouNthyy OffICLAS INNONE

HONE:

Sao moco Laungarduor to Sullivat, 13/10/0, 523

capiion, Da2: b5c.

1 - Foreiga

150s, Unft (Route through for review)

CLASSIFIED BX

2047

H| v0 18

EXER2T FROM

VENFI, DECTASSIFICATION

SCHLCULE CE

XOLICE Cricai 11052

100-106170-523

1

EXELRTION CAXEU

CurY-r.O.

sAinter

OESTIEDION IndSEATe

ENCLOSURE

•NW 68262 Docld:32195954. Page 39

---

## Page 40

SERRET

CADLEGIAN TO MONT

KE :

TARTIN ITIOR STIC, SI

, 100-100070

CORTALY SIDIOTS LECAUSE LIFE A MICINE. MUSTIN IS TO

ALSO PERISE VITTER KING VILL BE ABLE TO LUST HITE VILSON.

KIS IS SURIOINDRD BY MOREE ARLIDOES JAZIE PRESSIE

CE FOUR COURTEN COMPRICIA HAZAS USTRATERA

ASSORIAZION MITH ALL MILIOR GIT I COVERL ERZA

TO ALADONE MEIERRE CAN 1009 50 1202

CUNTIE AL MARIL EASE ACON

e ECL

ROMANSANITE THY HACK REACH.22

1. 1020302, 10 PInT.

SARTAL CINDEN AP A CRISON ON 20L ERSEN

IINE A ACTIONS ALTIE ANGERE MEA ARA SEA BARONE MACH

STAME HIM AS A LAME DOSAGRICA. RUSTIN IN A FONIOR

SUNIOR CE TIE YOUNG COMANISE LENGUS AND HAS BORN CONVICED

DIT A MICROSENUÁI, CHARGE:

*FFIA

YOU ARE INSERUCTED TO INDIATELY BRIDE MI - FIVE

CONCENTING THE BACKGROJND EY FING AND RUSTIN AND OF THEIR

INTAITICNE RELATIVE TO A RING

VISOR LET IS SO MAY HA

DIUM LAY IN TURN MANSIE TIIS INORATION ON A HICHLE

- 2.=

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 40

---

## Page 41

CARLIEME TO 10P25

RIS:

BARZEN LALAR ETtE, et.

100-105STO

MICI TVICE SIN DI SU FENONELL

KING'S COMUNISE ASSOSZARIONS CLADIZEZED CUORE SECRET

MALE -IA •BRIGINE DIUS DUE DI SESTA MILIARDIOS

NW 68262 Docid: 32195954 Page 41

---

## Page 42

0-9 (Kev. 2-1474)

TRUE COPY

FBI

CABLEGRAM

Transmit in

R-Ko

NED BYS

CODE

(Type in plaintert or code!

Via

NIGHT ACTION

(Precedence)

1T'his line for Ly

COUnTRY

TO LEGAT

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (100-106670).

November 10, 1964

#Indicates DITA INSiRTANC

FRIENDLY FOREIGN INTELLIGENE

AGENCYS (FFIA

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., WHO IS- TO RECEIVE THE NOBEL

PEACE PRIZE IN OSLO, NORWAY, DECEMBER TEN, NEXT, PLANS TO BE

*, DECEMBER SIX AD SEVEN, NEXT. ONE OF

HIS ADVISORS, BAYARD RUSTIN, HAS CONTACTED PEGGY DUFF. A

RESIDENT WHO IS EXECUTIVE DIRECIOR, CAMPAIGE FOR NUCLEAR

DISARMAMENT. RUSTIN REQUESTED HER TO ATIEMPT TO ARRANGE FOR

TO RECEIVE KING. RUSTIN DESIRES

IT NOT APPEAR AS THOUGH THIS IS KING'S IDEA AND PREFERS

TO ANNOUNCE THAT&

IS INVITING KING. DUFF CHECKING INTO

THIS MATTER.

DECI

ON

RUSTIN IS DEPARTING FOR

NOVEMBER ELEVEN, NEXI,

FOR PURPOSE OF CLARIFYING A CONFUSION SURROUNDING KING'S TRIP

IN DECEMBER. CONFUSION INVOLVES FACT THAT

• DESIRES TO RECEIVE KING BUT HAS BEEN DEEDSED BY

CLASSIFIED BY 2047611611

EXER DY FROM CONERAL DECLASSIFICATION

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

KaR: 11052

Unauchorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions Do not upe below this ime Caned oN yndetinite

DeletioNS FOR PRiEST DENNE SERVICE,

SFP : bgc

(12)

COUNTRYTOFFICIALS INVOLVED

NOTE: See merrio Baumgardner to Sullivan, 11/10/64, same

caption, SFP:bgc.

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit, (Route through for review)

TOITE_ CARV

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 42

---

## Page 43

CENTRY

CABLEGRAM TO KAS

RE:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

100-106670

CERTAIN ELEMENTS BECAUSE KING A BAPTIST. RUSTIN IS IO

ALSO DETERNINE WHETHER KING WILL BE ABLE TO MEET WITH EUN

KING IS SURROUNDED BY NUMEROUS ADVISORS HAVING PRESE:T

OR FORMER COMMUNISI CONVECTIONS. HE HAS MAINTAINED A:

ASSOCIATION WITH AYD RECEIVED GUIDAICE AND COUNSEL FROM

SECRET COMMUNISI PARTY, USA, MEMBERS OIWITHSIA DING ADTICE

IO KING ABOUT THEIR CONUNIST BACKGROUNDS. KING IS ALSO

SOME OF

KING'S ACTIONS IN THE RECENT PAST ARE OF A NATURE WHICH

RUSTIN IS A FORMER

MEMBER OF THE YOUNG COMMUNIST LEAGUE AND HAS BEEN CONVICTED

ON A HOMOSEXUAL CHARGE.

..

• YOU ARE INSTRUCTED TO IMMEDIATELY BRIEF &F

IFFIA

CONCERNING THE BACKGROUND OF KING AND RUSTIN AND OF THEIR

XEFIA

INTENTIONS RELATIVE TO A KING -

• MEETING SO THATE

#EMAY IN TURN TRANSMIT THIS INFORMATION ON A HIGHLY

2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 43

---

## Page 44

CoUnTRy

CABLEGRAM TO SE

RE: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

100-106670

*FFIA

CONFIDENTIAL BASIS TO THE PRIME MINISTER.

WASHINGTON, D. C., BEING APPRISED. INFORMATION AS TO

KING'S COMMUNIST ASSOCIATIONS CLASSIFIED QUOTE SECRET

UNQUOTE; AS TO HIS

JFK Law 10(a)1

QUOTE IOP SECRET UNQUOTE.

SMET

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 44

---

## Page 45

JFK Law 10(a) 1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 45

---

## Page 46

JFK Law 10(a) 1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 46

---

## Page 47

JFK Law 10(a)1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 47

---

## Page 48

JFK Law 10(a) 1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 48

---

## Page 49

JFK Law 10(a)1

Page Denied

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 49

---

## Page 50

SSC REMER 11-12-75

ITEM 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ONE 24 0 6 522AMKP

Return

Se1199

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 50

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 51

-TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

The document

prepared in

resmonse

Wour request

arid

is not for

dissemi-

nation outside your

Committee.

lis

1682

is limited to

official proceedings

your Communice

and the content may

not

be disclosed to uneuthorizer

pErSON

nel without

the

express

approval

oj

tlie

I'BI

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY IPOZ EDITION

5010-108

OSA GEN. REG. NO. 17

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

MP. BELMON:

aler

DATE: 4/23/64

W. C. Su

wan

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Cc Mr.

Belmont

Tolson .

Belmont _

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Gale .

Rosen

Sullivan —

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

MARTEN LUTHER KING

I

received a call at 5:25 p.m. from the San Francisco

Office

to advise that Dr. Martin Luther King ha, as predicted,

issued his written statement to the press.

It caused a great

deal of interest and undoubtedly it viil be mentioned

tonite around the country on radio & TV.

King mentioned the Director by name and, in substance,

put hin in the

calegory oi southern politicians and racists

who are opposine

the Bill Of rigate.

indicated that

tie

Director, if nocking

more, would be used by those

People for

maintaining sogregation, all because the Director dade

what

hing regarus as boing a faise statenent charging communist

infiltration and influence in the civil rights and negro

movement.

King challenged the Director that if he had any real

evidence, to come forth with it.

He went on to say that the

leaders of the Negro movement have tried consistently to

keep communists out of policy-forming areas and positions of

leadership.

King quoted the AG against the Director, to the effect

that it is to be expected that communists will

• try to infiltrate

civil rights movements, but they had not succeeded in making

the expected impact.

King, at the end, repeated his diallenge to the Director

to

wel

ICT

1D.

".&

1964

560020-951

ME APR 30 1906

EX 107

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 51

---

## Page 52

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL MORN MO. 10

9310 106

MAY 1P0Z EDITION

GRA BEN. DEG. NO. 19

UNITED STATES Gr :

NMENT

Memorandum

MR. A. B. BELLONT

: MR. W. C. SULLIV

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoachk

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tave!

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy

COLTUNIST PARTY, USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COLTIUKIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST

DATE: April 23, 1964

1-Mr.

Belmont

1-Mr.

Mohr

1-Mr.

Sullivan

1-Mr.

DeLoach

I-lír. J. A. Sizoo

1-Mr.

Baumgardner

1-Ur. Gurley

I-Mr. Phillips

Assistant Special Agent in Charge Paul O'Connell

San Francisco DIfice,

called at 5:25 p.=.

today (1/23/31)

and dictated the substance of Martin Luther King's statement

issued to the press this afternoon (4/23) at the

International

Aimort in San

Francisco.

The staterent itself, with further

details, is being sent in tonight to tle Eureau.

The statement, as dictated over the phone, in se:

forts beior:

Statonent of Reverend Wartin Luther King, President,

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC),

Atlanta, in Response to Mr. J. Edgar Hoover's Charge

that Communists Had Infiltrated the Civil Rights

Lovement.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

UNCLASSIFIES

HERÉIN

DATE VS2

It is very unfortunate that Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, in his

claim of alleged communist infiltration in the civil rights

movement, has allowed himself to aid and abet the salacious

' claims of southern racists and the extreme right-wing

elements. I hope this is not a reflection of a tragic

drift toward the renaissance of McCartbyism that so

I terribly blighted the life and bealth of our nation.

The more significant truth is the amazing lack of success

that connunisn has net in attracting the Negro, who

easily might be tempted to turn to some other disciple to

gain respite from his desperate plight.

The issue of comnunist "infiltration in the civil rights

movement is not new.

I have dwelt with it time and time

again. In fact, one had good reason to believe it was

given a decent burial when Attorney General Robert F.

¡kennedy answered Senator Maroney's inquiry to the FBI

REG 17.

trealis

NCS: LL

ahoman is parad in need nee

pire; des

'..7

nacie slay 5 1954

1, Ü 1007

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 52

---

## Page 53

IEMORANDUM TO MR. BELMONT FROM MR. W. C. SULLIVAN

PRE:

CP,USA; NEGRO QUESTION;

COLLUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS; IS - C.

on this question last summer: "It is natural and inevitable

that communists have made efforts to infiltrate the civil

rights movement and to exploit the current racial situation.

In view of the real injustices that exist and the resentments

against them, these efforts have been remarkably unsuccessful."

From my own experience in the civil rights movement, this

observation by the head of the Department of Justice is,

indeed, true and it should be paid heed by those who

periodically raise this issue.

One may ast, why is this

dead issue being resurrected at this time?

why is this

issue being used now to swear and attack the civil rights

movement and the

SULC.

lie in the SCLC adbere to our policy:

We do not

in leadership or authoritative places or

at stafi levels

membersbig

0z E09

We consider such readers

incompatible mita our credo and

philosopay.

Cur struarie

saco day is to achieve the merican

drena: a concept wiich is alien is inose who espouse ibe

concept of tbe Communist Party.

ire challenge ali

who raise the "red" issue, whether they be

newspaper columnists or the head of the fBI himself -- to come

forward and provide real evidence which contradicts this stand

of the SCLC.

We are confident that this cannot be done.

We at the SCLC must be judged by our record. I stand fully

and forthrightly behind the action taken by myself in my 10

years of civil rights activity and of the SCLC which I have

been privileged to lead since its inception in 1957. No

action, no deeds, no statement requires repudiation as being

inconsistent with our struggle to achieve an America free

lof segregation through nonviolent persuasion and direct action.

We will continue to be vigilant against communist infiltration,

but we will also serve notice that we will continue to

resolutely wage the struggle for the full emancipation of the

Negro:

Ve wiil not allow ourselves to be diverted. We will

not allow Eastland, Barnett or the George Mallaces to use

the "red" issue to blocis our efforts, to split our ranks or

confuse our supporters.

This resolution we mase, ever

mindiul that every effort is being made by the racists and the

Birchites to sow dissention and confusion to bring about the

defeat of the pending civil rights legislation.

-2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 53

---

## Page 54

MEMORANDUM TO MR.

BELMONT FROM MR. W. C. SULLIVAN

Re: CP, USA; NEGRO QUESTION;

COLLUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS; IS - C.

We affirm that SCLC is unalterably opposed to the misguided

philosophy of connunisin.

It is based on unethical

relativism, a metaphysical totalitarianism, and the denial

human freedom, which we could never accept.

It is difficult to accept the word of the FBI on communist

infiltration in the civil rights movement, when they have

been

so completely ineffectual in resolving the continued

mayhem and brutality inflicted upon the legro in the deep

south. It would be encouraging to us if Mr. Hoover

and the FBI would be as diligent in apprehending those

responsibie for bombing churches and killing little

as they are in

seeking out ailaged consunist

infiltration in

the civil righis novenest.

The Donestic Intelligence

Division is already sorting

on naterial nich can be used to reture what king

02s

said.

This is

being pushed extremely nard and wiil be given to the

Director promotly for his consideration.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

WeS.

3

-

NW 68262 Docld:32195954 Page 54

---

