# docid-32339483

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90149-10079

RECORD SERIES :

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-914-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DE

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

04/27/1962

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY ZERILLI

THE CRIMINAL COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT; INC ADMIN PAGE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

69252 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32339483 Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

P'D-26.8 iPer-3-1-30)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DETROIT

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

THE CRIMINAL "COLMISSION";

ETAL;

DETROIT DIVISION

DATE

4/27/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/30 - 4/26/62

REPORT MADE BY

HARVARD E. HEYSTER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

RUF BRETICES:

ENCLOSURES:

Bureau airtel to New York, 3/29/62.

New York airtels to Bureau, 4/3/62 and 1/6/62.

- P

TO BUREAU:

Original and one copy of a letterhead memorandur

characterizing informants utilized in instant report.

LEADS:

DETROIT

At Detroit, Michigan:

Will follow and report evidence of personal meetings

or communications by JOSIPH ZERILLI Or WILLIAN TOCCO with members :

of the "Commission" in other areas.

sPeCIAl AGENT

IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau (snc. 2)

2 - New York (92-2316)

Detroit (92-914)lA

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-914-4

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

INDEXED

FILED

* DISSEMINATION RECORO OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY....

REQUEST RECO!

DATE FWD...

HOw FWD..

BY....

NW 68262 Docld:32339483 Page 2

U.S. GOVIANKENT PAINTING SERICE

10-76323-1

---

## Page 3

DE 92-914

INFORMANTS:

Identity of

Source

CG T-1 is

CG F0s3-C*

DE I-1 1s

DE 370-C

Date

1 9/8/59

10/21/55

11/30/55

1/23/58

1/21/59

12/12/59

11/20/60

11/23/60

1/14/61

3/11/61

6/24/61

8/5/61

9/10/61

1/8/58

3/24/58

Agent to whom

Furnished

PALMER M. WEE

81

DE T-2 1s

DE T-3 1S

forDer PCI

EDWARD NIEZINSKI

DE T-4 is

D.i MAILES

DE T-5 1s

DE STE-C

18

JOSEPH E. ISELAN

JOSEPH E. ISEMAN

JANES L. SHANAHAN

Location

клат

137-7-69

137-j-:1

137-7-336

137-7-3.53

237-7-170

157-7-193

237-3-134

137-1-193

137-7-200

237-7-205

137-7-203

1137«7 -2, 10

137-711-59

92-218-535-334

DE T-6 19 ICI

CARLIERT NITCUEIL

3/31/58

9/27/61

10/11/61

10/25/61

11/22/61

11/30/61

1/10/62

2/28/62

1/15/58

JOSEPE E. ISEMAN

137-32-97

ROBERT N. FITZRATRICK

37 2879г

137-2639-17

13%-2633-26

137: 2039-59

77-2833143

18

88

37-7639-5

13702839-3

GEORGE L. BLUT

137-5226

- C-

COVER PACE

'NW 68262 Docld:32339483 Page 3

---

## Page 4

11D-201 (RET. 3-3-59)

EdIT

STATES. DEPARTMENT OFU.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CE

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

SA FARVARD E. REYSTEK

Apr1l 27, 1902

92-914

THE CRILINAL "COMISSION";

ETAL,

DETROIT DIVISION

Office:

DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Bureau File No.:

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING • CONSPIRACY

Synopsis:

Chicago source furnished information describing JOSEPH

ZERILLl of petrolt as & nenber of the "Cormission".

Detroit sources advised INhILI is the final authority

1n naticrs involving the Petroit "Syndlosto".

Identisies

and adresses of past and present "elder statesmea",

tagadicater and lacivicuals Ilentifiud with the letrolt

set out. No progent information available

Sou patrolt sources as to meubership in "Causa Nostra"

or identities of "button uhn", "caporegtna"

• or

"consuleri" activities of the

Detroit "Syndicate" include

numbers operations, racing infornation service, burbute,

стор

gaines, card gancs and shylociang.

JOSEPH TERIiLI

simits being in vicinity of JOSFPil DANBARA's houe on

date oi spalachin nocting. 11/1457, but denied having

knowledge of neeting or intention of attending. Dotroit

sources report highly organized and

cisciplined crihinal

operation doninated by ZERILLI and "elder statesmen"

who received a sasis of the proceeds.

• ₽ .

'bis document contains neither recommendations nor conclusiong of the FBI

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

ts. contents are not to be distributed outside your agency

NW 68262 Docld:32339483 Page 4

---

## Page 5

IS 32 + 914

rebutied by the Jewish ganblera who had thes wish Cleveland

and Sast Coaat Sicilions, but night be afrald oi losing

contro, to the Sicilians. The source expreased the opinlon

that it sigit be necessary to "clip" one or ino of those

Sewish

ginalers in order to convince then that the younger

men mcant businegs.

the source added that there appeared

to be s closer liaison between the Detroit Siciliars and

thoso in Chicago and other citles than there had been 1n

recent years.

source advised on September 10, 1961, that the

"outfit" vas aware that HIKE RUBINo was then a "hot package",

(being under investigation in s National Bankruptcy Act case).

source said that for that reason RubINo no longer had any

specile duties and had assumed about the sane position as

ANGLLO MELI, JODY PRIZIOLA, und other "elder statesnen".

SOUrCE: DE 7%

Source advined on Jaauary 8, 1958, that 10 b1g

opinion, there existed a

"Hafte controlled"

YOUR generallY

1307n as the "Syndicate". He said J03 MERILuI was regarded

- as the top man and that nest to him would be wIllIan tocco.

Source suid that he was convinced that IrrILLI had the final

word in settling local disputes, was a top policy makes, in

Detroit, and was a man of influence anong "Mafia membera"

throughout the country.

Timer PET.

Source!' DE IoS

Edear microoke

Source advised on narch 21, 1058 that gambling 1n

Detroit was controlled by the "Italian Syndicate" and adied

TOCCO, JOAN PRIZIOLA, MIKE RUBINO, JOE "SCARFACE"

ERd PETE LICAVOLI.

Source advised that this syndicate

controlled the numbers rrcket to a lorgo extent, as well as

handbooks, barbute, and football pools. Source added that

none of the top nen naned performed any duties to big kaowledge

that would link them to garbling, but said that they had

trusted lieutenants to do the any to day work, maintala accounts,

and split up the proceeds.

Source: DE I-4

source aduised on sarch 31, 1958, that he had been

employed by the "Syndicate" and that, in his opinion, it cousisted

0I PITE LICAVOLI, MILLINI

TOSCO, JOE MURILLI, ANGLO KELI,

ora

NW 68262 Docld:32339483 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DE 92-014

JOIN PRIZIOLA, aNd POSALbLY JOS COCIALITO, SOurce Badd that

as far as he knew nost of these were wealtby aen who had

no direct connection with uny of the notive gambling operations.

He identified the nen wo did the work and opcrated on &

cally basis for the "Syndicate" as MILE RUBINO, MAX STERN aNd

TONY GIACALONE.

SOUrCE: DE TO DATA: TE.

2.78

Source advined on Septenber 27, 1961, that without

question the "top guy" in Dotroit nas Job miniul.

Source

said that nore or less in a direct line under amlilui vero

"BLACK BILL" TOCCO, "PAPA JOLT" PRIZIOLA, ANGELO BELI, JACKIE

TOCCO, TOY MERILLI, BILE POLIZZI, BUO TONY TOCCO. Source

said that he had recently learned'cliably" that all the

Italian numbers houses in Datrolt were then counected. source

Bald that RAFFAFLE QUISARANO net with other roprezentatives

of each of the Italian nuabors fretions it the end of the

month, at which tine cach house nuit bring its tapes which

are tabulated and then the proceeds are divided.

The source

expressed the opinion that such a monthly division could only

have been ordered by an individual with the power and stature

Of JOE IpRILLI, and that the nove was unde necessary in order

to stop the frequent raids nade by various nunbers houses 11

recruiting successiul nunbera pick up nen fron other houses,

the overlapping of bettors, and the aggravating ta-fightlag

prevsient in such business operationa.

THERE TOLLOUS

SaHICO fave a list Oi the nines, residences, and

1 stead on neat sona

and nanes, addresses and identification numbers of Individuals

identified by Detroit sources as beirg connected with the

LICAVOLI- BOMANITO gIOUD, thE CORRADO EXOUP, And the PRIZIOLi

POLIZZI group in the betrott area.

"EIDER STATESIRA"

Name and Identification

Number

JOSEPH TERILLI

Detroit Police Department

111413

WILLIAH "PLACK BILL" TOCCO

Detroit Police Departnent

#13817

Besidence

702 Middlesex Road

Grosse Pointe Park,

Michigan

Tol Middlesex Road

Groose Folnte Pars, Michlear

NW 68262 Docld:32339483 Page 6

---

