# docid-34432020

## Page 1

Date

Page

01/27/98

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10013-10346

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

ZF000003W - PAGES

1389 - 1390

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM : MR J DOWNIE

TO : GOTTSCHALK, HERR

TITLE : LETTER

DATE: 11/25/57

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL

GOTTSCHALK, ERICH

GOTTSCHALK, MARGOT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

***

* **.

***

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56754 Date: 09-22.2022

*

*C*

*A*

* * *

***

***

NW 66754 Docld:34432020 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONT

Annexure II to

BRIP/0/11/441

dated 3g Nor 57.

Reproduction of a letter written by DOWNIE to Erich GOTTSCHALK,

with a postscript by Margot GOTTSCHALK.

Bautzen/ Sa.

Ziegelstrasse.

25. 11. 57.

Herr Gottschalk.

am writing this letter to day for Maggie and me

•I thought that you of all peopel were

It seens that you have been getting letters from Bautzen saying that

we have been selling every thing

All I ask

of you is come hear,at Xmas and see for yourself what kind

of house we have but if you believe what other peopel say about us

and what you have told the Murphs to tell Maggie not to write or ask

any thing from you again then you and your dom family over there can

all goe to hell I shall tell you now that Margrit and I make, seven

hundred Dm in the month and we have some money in the Banke

but if you want to believe the other peopel

Only always remember lagge is your sister but you had better believe

that I will take good care of her and to hell with you and your family.

Mr J Downie

(Postcript inserted by Margot GOTTSCHALK.)

Ihr braucht keine Angst mehr zu haben das

ich an Euch schreibe

oder fragen werde.

Ich lebe mit dem Jimmie hier und ihr dort.

Wenn Du konmen willet, kannst Du konmen.

Wenn nicht wisgen wir

bescheid.

Aber Ihr habt fur frende Leute nehr übrig als für ung.

So denn also Auf-wiedersehen fur immer

(DOWNIE continues his letter - page 3)

Margrit has

wrote goodby for ever I hope you are dom happy about it

But for me I wish that all the ill luck that is goeing comes your

family way

You dont know me right ore you would not treet Magge the way you

are doeing

me the don lot of you are egal

But I am very sorry for Margrit that her own brother will not have

i to leste like this I am not worryed" but

If you are angry because

think of your sister

I was hopeing to be your friend always but you better believe I

rather have a swine for a friend than to have a freind who would

turn against his own sister

I dom well hope you can come between now and xmas

we have a lot to talk over Ferr Gottschalk

I will look for an answer schnell

1389

(.../ to sheet 7

and

, Annexure II,

the letter, continued.)

NW 66754 Docld:34432020 Page 2

---

## Page 3

- 7-

Annexure II to

BRIP/0/11/441

dated 30

Nov 57.

(DOWNIE's letter continued.)

hopeing you will

see this in a different light now I have wrote

like this remember we want to be your friend

II IS UP TO YOU.

ask you to send

the letters you have

received about us

and I will

take them to the Police if I dont get them then you

are all dom liars

Margrit sitting hear crying her eyes out

if I could get my hands

on you just now believe me you would be sorry

Tonight we have been by Herr Schattel und he will write to you

for the letters if you do not send these letters then he will goe to

the Partei which Frau Lehmann is in and they will get the truth

this but I will have know one ill treating margrit

me I can take any thing they like to say about me thank god for

that and-I-ean and know Matter what is said we can still hold our

heads high for we know it is all leis

(NOTE: This is the end of the letter.)

TRANSLATION of the postscript written by Margot GOTTSCHALK.

You need not have any fear any longer that I wilf/t

(anything) again.

I live here with Jimmie and you (live)

If you want to come (to Bautzen) you can come.

will know where we stand (idiomatic translation).

more tine over for strangers than for us.

Goodbye for always,

Margot.

But you have

TRANSLATED by Sgt J.B. BARKLAM.

BRITISH INTELLIGENCE POOL (BERLIN).

pa BB.

1390

NW 66754 Docld:34432020 Page 3

---

