. ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10339
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32243305 Page 1


AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

EBERHARDT, MICHAEL
DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
| Box #:1.

|
|

| NW 68261
Docld:32243305 Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

: HSCA
: 180-10068-10339

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

HSCA

: 09/19/77
: 8

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

Cc.
: PRINTED FORM
2U

2 3

: P
: 07/07/93

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date:08/20/93
Page:1



| PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FOPM.:

(Please Use Typewriter. oS. U.S. HOUSE uF ‘AEPRESENTATIVES (Any, erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date -|
Hichsel ¢. Eberhardt Hevember 16, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action:

e CG Appointment

I. 0 Salory Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Ci Title Change
& Termination (At close of business on effective date)
: Agsseselagtions O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. a)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change,-complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office,

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1.0 came Committee: Staff—Ol Clerical or C1 Professional.
| 2.

3. D1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an ‘Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___________ If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

! certify, that this authorization: is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), Prohibiting the employment of
relatives. a

(if appropriate, signature of Subcomr

(Type oF print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees: under. the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the. Budget,-and the Joint Committees,-must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only: 5

Office Code.

ewe == Benefits _________-------------

Monthly Annuity $.

W 68261
locld:32243305 Page 3 ie

ici anaslecctea

sat Ba a iN Batt nee uals ts a

1
:
|
i
:
|

aoe



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO" ~<,
he

(Please Use Typewriter “U.S. HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i + ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) °

- To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last) Effective Date
Michael C. Eberhardt February 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
a 7 1D Appointment
& Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee 0 Title Change
CO Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above ond ending
close of business____________. Sag bie nnn )
patty Dae

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate’ information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Assistant Geputy Chief Counsel $36,400.00

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual solary shown should include the annuity réceived'by the-employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or Cl: Professional.
X sreci — eee . . . 879 95th
2. Et Special (Investigative staff of Standing: Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H: Res._ =". of = 77 Congress.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number: If applicable, Level

| certify that -this authorization: is notin violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

February 15,

(Gigroture of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.____.-
Choirman, Committee on House Administration
Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code._ a
Monthly Annuity $____--___- 00 sof Payroll.
(Revied: Avgunt 1977)
Copy-for-Initiating Office or. Committee

|
|
q

W 68261
ocid:32243305 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please. Use Typewriter: »<U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or'changes:

Bs} i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) |

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: 7 z q

| hereby authorize the following payroll-action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ; Effective Date

Wichael’€. Eberhardt ; 10/1/77
Employee Social Sogu

‘ Appointment

Employing Office or Committee HKSclory Adjustment

» Type of Action

Assassinations O Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete.the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel $34,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. F) Standing Committee: Staff—[J] Clerical or [7] Professional.

2.54] Special or Select Committee: Authority —H. Res._

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee ofan Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_ _----_-.|F applicable, Level

| certify that: this authorization is not in violation: of 5 US.C...3110(b), prohibiting the-employment of
relatives.

Date.__ Getober 14

eb

.All appointments and: salary. adjustments for employees: under the House: Classification Act and: for: Committee em-
ployees, ‘except those’ of the Committee: on:Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; ‘must
be. approved by:the Committee on House. Administration..

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.___-__u___

W 68261
ocid:32243305 Page 5



i

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ‘FORM

- (Please:Use Typewriter
or Ballpdint Pen)

To'the-Clerk of the House of Representatives:

\-hereby authorize the following payroll action: *

~U.S.: HOUSE: OF: REPRESENTATIVES:
Washington, D.C.20515

- On: this form must. be

(Any: erasufes,*corréctio
aled: by: the
authorizing official.)

‘Or-changes: *-

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

“Effective Date ~

Michael C. Eberhardt

9/18/77

-Employee Social-Security: Number:

: Type-of Action %

Employing Officeor Committee

F] Appointment

|. Sclary Adjustment

Assassinations...

(1 Termination (At close of business on-effective date)

(If type:of action is:an Appointment or. Salary Adjustment; complete'the following informatio

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel

$32,000

(If Committee: Employee; complete appropriate item:below:)

1.
2.

3.

Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical-or

C1) Joint Committee.

[=] Professionals..:-

(If Employee of an Officer of the House; complete item below.)

Position Number.

I ecertify that. this. authorization’ is:.not “in violations of
relatives:

Allsappointments .and’salary:adjustments for employees under. the: House Classification Act-and for Committee em-~
ployees, except those: of the Committee on Appropriations;the Committee on the-Budgety:and the Joint Committees must .

be approved by the Committee:on House: Administration.

APPROVED:

Louts Stekes

Pata Congress.

5 :W.S.C..3110(b);: prohibiting: the employment: of. «

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

watts Kaas Seta

Shot talib

sees habatitinisite:

el ae



MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special counser Yt CM,

DATE: February 13, 1978

RE: Mr. Michael C. Eberhardt

This is to inform you that Michael C. Eberhardt,
Senior Counsel, Martin Luther King Task Force has been

promoted to Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel/King Investigation.

His starting salary will be $36,400.00, effective February
1, 1978.
iS

If you have any questions, please contact me at

your convenience.

ICM:5

W 68261 —— nr — es
locld:32243305 Page 7 Le j



To:

From:
Date:

Re:

|.

W 68261
locid:32243305 Page 8

MEMORANDUM

Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director Seo 4c?
October 14, 1977

Salary Adjustments

This is your authorization to increase the salaries of the

below listed employees to. the amounts indicated effective October 1, 1977:

Michael C. Eberhardt $34,000
Marjorie A. Eagle 14,500
1. Charles Mathews . 26,000

a



|
|
|
|

i

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll] Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and_ Employees of the U.S. House of
Rep
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father hephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
fil is status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

h

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congr
(Please specify. )

P77

Signature of Employee Tae
SELECT CoMmm7Tree OW ASSASSIN ATIONS

| Ly sa201 ae _

Docld:32243305 Page 9



MEMORANDUM

: TO: Thomas Howarth
| Budget Officer

I:
FROM: Charlie Mathews
NSTI

Special Counsel
DATE: September 19, 1977

RE: Michael C. Eberhardt

This is to advise you that Michael C. Eberhardt
| has accepted a position as Staff Counsel on the Martin Luther
| King Task Force, effective September 19, 1977, at an annual
: salary of $32,000.
Please extend every possible assistance to Mr.

Eberhardt.

W 68261 Ben
|) Docld:32243305 Page 10

