# docid-34517474

## Page 1

Date :

Page

:

01/21/98

1

AGENCY

RECORD

• NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: INSCOM/CSF

: 194-10001-10395

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

XE327040WJE - PAGE 348

- - -

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

TO : ASST CHIEF OF STAFF, INTELLIGENCE

TITLE : MEMORANDUM AND ATTACHMENT

DATE : 10/19/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS : SLOBODA, VLADIMIR O.

MRS. LILLIAN SLOBODA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA FOR RELEASE

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH THE CIA HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 15 DEC 95.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34517474 Page 1

=3

---

## Page 2

NO FONtION DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

29 OCT 1963

TO:

Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence

Department of the Army

Attention: Chief, Counterintelligence Branch,

Security Division

FROM:

Deputy Director (Plans) JAP

SUBJECT: Vladimir I. SLOBODA (U)

1. Reference is made to previous correspondence concerning the

Subject.

2. Attached is a copy of a report received from a British Security

Service on an interview with Mrs. Lilian SLOBODA conducted by a British

Security officer in Halifax on 19 March 1963. You will note that Mrs.

SIOBODA did not provide information on the persons with whom her husband

is in contact in the USSR.

3. A copy of this report was given to the London Representative of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation by the British service.

CSCI -3/778,353

Attachment as stated

2A3B-64-73

8257024

NW 64954 Docld:34517474 Page 2

348

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

SECRET

112713

EXCLUDED FROM GENPRAL

DECLASSErICATION SCHEDULE

CHOU 1

Excludos from automatie

Sormorating 210

snailsciat

109-29-64

---

