JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10283-10213
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-117
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 03/16/1962
PAGES: 13
SUBJECTS :
SMO, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, TRA, ASSOC, NRO, B/F INT,
GAMBLING, RACK ACT, TRIAL, ACQUITTAL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/11/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

The John y
f:ssassination Records Collection Act of

vol

47

| NW 68262 Docld:32303201 Page 1


JFK Act & (g)(2)(D}

PG 92-228

INFORNANTS

“Except in one instance, the T symbols utilized in this

report will be the same, where applicable, as those used

in previous reports back to; and including, that of 7/28/o1.
In the case of. PCI JAMES W, BURGART, who has been PG T-25
in prior reports, recent conversations with Departmental
Attorneys WILLIAM KEHOE and JOHN MULLANEY have caused

SA FORSYTH to believe that they have guessed his identity,
and for this reason, the precaution of giving a new

T symbol to him will be taken.

PG T-1 is Former PG 545-C
PG T-2 is PG 612-C

pG T-30 is CLIFFORD HUTCHISON, Owner, Pines Motel, Leechburg,
Pa. (protect per request)

PG T-32 is PG O40-TE-C

PG T-35 is GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON, JR.; Vandergrift, Pa.
(protect per request)

PG T-39 is PCI JOSEPH NOVI, Pittsburgh

~ C¥ =

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303201 Page 2

Awe
uv


os a

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

In Reply, Please Refer to
ile No.
ane March 10, 1962-

SAMUEL MANNARINO
ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent THOMAS G.
FORSYTH, ILI, Pittsburgh, March 16, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants used
in referenced report:

PG T-1 is a Westmoreland County, Pa., businessman,
who has been used as a consultant by the
MANNARINOs in some of their legitimate
enterprises,

PG T-2 is a New Kensington, Pa., numbers writer,
formerly connected with prostitution activities.

PG T-30 is a businessman in Allegheny Township,
Westmoreland County, Pa., whose business
brings him into contact with many of the
area inhabitants and leaders.

PG T+32 is a former racketeer from Mercer County, Pa.

PG T-35 is a student who has worked with racketeers
and gamblers in Vandergrift and Oakmont, both
Pennsylvania.

PG T-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa., gambler and club
operator.

NW 68262 Docld:32303201 Page 3

