AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/27/201
Identification Form
asetahanaesasatiossnsanatsessnstistonassntantonassntonsssntonasstisosse:zsstensasssenseniassteniassteniasslseeeelsseleniesssleblsssiee:ensssslenlsse!enasseos=F9qissslsnfasslanfssssselgnisseiantased
Agency Information
FBI
124-10296-10120
HQ
CR 62-9-445

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

———————— aaa a

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

COMMENTS :

TITLE:

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

Document Information

FBI
SAC, PG
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/30/1960
19

NRO, ASSOC, SMO, BKG, MED/PERS HIST, DESCR, REL, RES,
RCK, TRA, THP, CRIM A/O GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/16/1998 te

INDEFINITE

INC LHM

vd

NW 68262 Docld:32308792 Page 1


. Office Memorundum + onttEp stA.&8 GOVERNMENT

70: DIRECTOR, FBI pate: 6/30/60 .
1

fh. SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-407)

Yu“ supject: DISSEMINATION TO DEPARTMENT
OF INFORMATION ON RACKETEERS

“a CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

ee ReBulet to Albany, 6/14/60.

tl Enclosed are an original and four copies of a letterhead
Pa memorandum concerning SAMUEL MANNARINO.

SOURCES

The ‘source in paragraph 8 is A, E, BOYD, Assistant
Cashier, National Deposit Bank, Arnold, Pa., contacted
by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE.

3 The source in paragraphs 10-12, 37 is PCI JAMES T.
f MC CLOWRY, who furnished information to SA THOMAS G.
FORSYTH, III.

jo The source in paragraph 27 is JOSEPH MEROLA, Miami, Fla.,
former TJT, who furnished information to SA JOHN S.
PORTELLA.

The source in paragraphs 32 and 36 is former Pittsburgh
Top Hoodlum CHARLES FREDERICK TEEMER, who furnished
information to SA PORTELLA.

The source in paragraphs 45 ~- 55 is ARCHIE MILLER,
‘ Miller's Men's Clothing Store, New Kensington, Pa., who *
vA furnished information to SAs DOUCE and FORSYTH. ‘2

The source in paragraphs 56 - 59 is AL SEID who furnishe:
information to SAs DOUCE and FORSYTH during interview.

4 _$?the source in paragraph 63 is PCI MADELINE MARCOUNS, wi
Pe am furnished information to SAs DOUCE and FORSYTH.

MIKE ZERVOS, who furnished information to SA DOUCE,

2)- Bureau (Encl. 5) ee? ‘ GR a MES ft TF

- Pittsburgh

The source in paragraphs 64-66 and 70 is former PCI / . LS

1 = 99-288 Dy, eh oa 7 ante ron AE
, TGF: ple Sate
Gy) < J Sy ¥3,4 = i‘ i.
ae Danie!
7

| NW 68262 Docid:32308792 Page 2


. .

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

June 30, 1960

_SAMUET/HWANNARINO, aka. if
“Samflannarino, SamNanner:
Salvatore/Ruggieri

z Bey fj. Pate) :
PERSONAL HISTORY -AND ‘BACKGROUND INFORMATION
TRRSONAL BIS TORY AND “BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Birth

Baptismal records of St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church,
Pittsburgh, Pa., reflect that SALVATORE RUGGIERI was
-born January 1, 1906, at Pittsburgh, Pa., to GIACINTO
RUGGIERI and DOMENICA RUGGIERI nee POLITANO, born
Amantea, Italy.

Education

Records of the Superintendent of Schools, New Kensington,
Pa., reflect that SALVATORE RUGGIERI entered New Kensington
Junior High School on January 22, 1920, and withdrew
permanently after completing only one semester of the
seventh grade,

Marital Status

Records of the Allegheny County Marriage License Bureau,
Pittsburgh, under Marriage License Application Number
N-23601, dated April 16, 1925, indicate that SAMUEL
MANNARINO and ROSE CARINO, daughter of RALPH CARINO and
ANNETTA CARINO nee SARGENTI, of Pittsburgh, applied for
a marriage license and were married on April 16, 1925,
at Pittsburgh,

Records of the Bureau of Vital Statistics, Pittsburgh,
reflect that ROSE CARINO was born July 24, 1909, at
Pittsburgh, to RAFFAELE CARINO and AMILIA CARINO nee
SERGENTLI.

Immediate Relatives

Records of the Buréau of Naturalization, Office of the
Clerk of Courts, U. S. District Court, Western District

62.0-445

ENCLOSUE™

,; NW 68262 Docld:32308792 Page 3


SAMUEL MANNARINO

he would not be permitted to operate slot machines in

Ooo kIBiER a, and accordingly he shipped some of the machines

Wb

. hat had?

O0_ALBER' and NORMAN ROTHMAN of the Tropicana Night
Club. in Havana in an attempt to. salvage some of the money

he had invested in the machines, MANNARINO stated that in
addition to. using the machines. in the Tropicana Night Club,
the Cuban Government had granted them permission to place the
machines in various spots throughout the islands of Cuba

in much the same fashion as slots were formerly used in the
United States. MANNARINO admitted that he would have

an interest in this slot machine operation.

SAMUEL MANNARINO, on March 14, 1958, advised that he had
recently returned fromza visit to Camaguey, Cuba, and while
there picked up a great deal of knowledge about the Cuban
pineapple business and was seriously considering making an
investment in that field. MANNARINO pointed out that he also
visited Chicago, Illinois, very recently and added that for the
past several months, he has been locating slot machines in the
"Tri-State area" for NORMAN ROTHMAN. MANNARINO said that a
number of the machineshad already been shipped to ROTHMAN and
each transaction was arranged in such a manner that only the **
name of the seller and ROTHMAN, the consignee, were.made a ‘
matter of record. MANNARINO explained that-in each instance
the Department of Justice in Washington, D. C., and the U. S.
Attorney in Chicago, Illinois, were notified of the shipments
destined for ROTHMAN... In conclusion, MANNARINO emphasized
that beyond locating the machines for ROTHMAN he had absolutely
no personal interest in the machines whatsoever.

A source, whose reliability.is not known but who has been close ~

to the MANNARINO organization, advised on March 17, 1958,

that during the period 1951 - 1952, he had a twenty per cent

interest in the Sans Souci where he was employed as General

Manager. Source explained that -while working at the Sans. ey

Souci’ he answered solely to NORMAN ROTHMAN, who evidently had’:

the largest share in the club since. he appeared to be i

the person in authority. .Source, when asked whether SAMUEL ,

or GABRIEL MANNARINO of New Kensington had an interest in the

Sans Souci, replied that he could not honestly my they did,

unless ROTHMAN was fronting for them. Source explained that.

it his understanding that the .MANNARINO brothers currently Ce
an arrangement with the BATISTA Government in Cuba and Pate

Baigie

i. 68262 Docld:32308792 Page 4
