# docid-32289224

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10201-10000

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

01/14/1958

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: • INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09:22.2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32289224 Page 1

169

---

## Page 2

V

S

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Me

ndum . UNITED

GOVERNMENT

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

January 14, 1958

FROM : SAC,

CHICAGO

(92-373)

3

SUBJECT: GUS

ALEX,

Wa..

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

AN TI- TEERING

Ro SAd Letter 51-70.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following informants are being utilized in

securing information relative to the captioned subject:

CG 6132-0 knows ALEX and has observed him in the

recent past frequenting a local restaurant with the other

top hoodlums. The informant advises he knows ALEX casually

and information contemplated will result from direct ob-

servation of ALEX and conversations with his associates.

ECI JUAN HALL, prostitute, has met ALEx and knows

him casually.

She claims that she is acquainted with close

associates of ALEX. Information is anticipated through

contacts with associates of ALEX.

PCI SAM NUKES, who frequents gambling games in

the territory of Chicago, purportedly under the control

Of ALEX, is attempting to

secure factual information as to

the actual control of those gambling activities.

Further informant coverage is contemplated through

attempted development of informants at places where ALEX is

to meet other hoodlums such às Mike Fish' Restaurant

used where such ottorts are warranted.

utilization of previously used informants will bel

Attempts will be nade to establish informant coverage

at ALEX' residence through service personnel making deliveries.

All informant information received will be evaluated in an

effort to develop informants that will be able to report more

direct informatson.

as to ALEX' activities

and associates' in

furtherance. of, the

Top Hoodlum Program.

RECORDED -1

923182-1

- Búreau

1

- Chicago

115, SE 2

HDS : dep

5 VAN 26: 1958

(3)

7 JAN 2 24 1958

901-10000

NW 68262 Docld:32289224 Page 2

---

