# docid-32310167

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10302-10111

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-1ST NR 135

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

AISC

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/14/1970

PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :

Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: . APPROVAL OF AISC

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO ASIC, INC 2 LTR

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66754 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 66754 Docid:32310167 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INPORMATION SHRET (JFK MATERIALS)

6

Page!si thneid entireit at this location in the file.

One or more of the foilowing statements, inere indicated,

explain this deietion /these deletions.

[ ]

Deletions

were nade pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

for disciosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

subsection A (intelligence agent's identit:)

subsection ie

inteiligence source or method)

[ ]

subsection ie other matter relating to military

derense, intelligence operations

the

conauct of foreign relations)

(]. subsection =

living person who provided

confidential information)

(]

Subsection:

(unwarranted invasion of privacz)

(1

Subsectior:

cooperating individual or foreign

government,

currently requiring

protectioni

( ]

Suosection s

security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilizedi

(]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated so the jrk

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

REFERRED

The folloring number is to be used for reference

regarding this

page

ithese pages) :

2-1423-15+

NR

135

xXXXXXXxXX

xXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

NW 66754 Docld:32310167 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DEP AIR ENDE

This document contains intornation

alfectie the national delense of the Unitoc

Sentes within Cho meanine of the espionago

lava, Tillo 18, U.S.C., Sec. 793 and 794.

The iransmiscich: or the revelation of lis

contents in ony manner to en unauthorized

sion 1s Prohibited by laus.

COUNTRY: DOMINIGAN REFUBLIC

DEFEN

NEg:

COLVETAL

This report cont

Plans and or pol!

or moutfied so! els

ol this sopori.

and Control Markings)

a. REPORT NUMBER:

6 827 0077

70

SUSJECT: (U) Possible Small Arms Purchases

9, DATE OF REFORT:

from Merix A.Go 0f

Cermany

Ib. May 1970

IN

10. NO. OF PAGES:

1% REFERENCES:

ISC NUMBER:

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED-

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINIED

DATE / -10-95 BY SP& MAC/KuR

2

(a) DIRM 103

IR 6

(c)

IR

6

82'7

024,

: 65.

827

0049

70

OF INFORMATION:

8 May 1970

12. ORIGINATOR: USDAO SaOtO Domingo, DOUREP

PLACE AND DATE OF ACO: SaNtO DOMIngO,

DOMREP

13. PREPARED BV:.

8 May 1970

S. EVALUATION: SOURCE..

B

_ INFORMATION.

% SOURCE: _ Dominican Businessman;

Secretariaù of the Armed Forces;

ARIA Observations

LEO,

Ü. So

Army

Attache

"DE APPROVING AUTHORITY.

aurence

R.

T.

LAWRENCE, COL, USMC

Defense Attache and Navel Attacka

(2.00 ve Diend!

1G. SUMMARY:

I. (D) Backeround.

20

(5)

Speculators.

30

FAL Cal 7.62MY (NATO) RIFLES

Available.

4o (0) Import Authorization

for FAL Rifle

from Merix A.G.

of German o

There is no doubt that the Military are lining up

thoir eloction

promises and arranging to present their bill to the President,

Many hands are stirring the Arms pot in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but the

is still General PIREZ y Perezo

He's willing to look at all offers presented him

by his "Old Colonels" and their contacts, but will still have to see where he

personally stands following the elections.

President BALAGUER may want a new

Interesüingly, Mr. Cummins of Interarmeo, in a letter to Mr. Enriquez written

on 29 April 1970 from Monaco,

said there were no surplus FAT, rifles availablo

sale and new ones would be $110.00 (U.S.) in Belgium.

Mr. Enriquez was going to

Erusaels to check NATO for possible direct surplus sale rather than through Meri

A.G. of Germany, so it remains to be seen, who will sell what,

how much kickback, etc.

He he men Glanden

Modemization

• Backgrounde

The Dominican Armed Forces have received the great bulk of theit

•Trom MAAC Military Grant Assistance

since the Trujillo era ended in

1961.

This assistance precluded small arms

since

the Dondnican inventory was loaded

German' G-3?5, Mauser Rifles end

during,

60%s bad are

capable

as mopeys new machinery and 20

élection in 1966 and. hig auster

DISTRIDUTION BY ORIGINATOR:

17.

GIN CLANT

USCINGSO

COLICARLESEAFROY

wi thou

_mostl

-Plans apisep Cristlozne

P225x0

so aiTcary-ras-foxsed

to dean in

18.

SATA:

DOWNGRADING DATÀ:

2

Enclosures

CROUP-3

DOINGRADED AT 12-YR INTERVAIS

10

Is Letter from RoMe

General of War Materials fo

NOF AUTOMATIGAILY DECLASSIFIRD

the Armed Forces

to Mr:

Herman Henriques

deted

21

DOWNGRADEO AT 12 YEAR INTERVAIS:

NOT

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIBRIED

DOD DIR 520010

Apr 79, No. 11215

20 (U) Authorization from

Secretary of State for Arme

Forces dated 7 May 1970g NO

10622

Cape toni

by coptice do for

MWV 66754 Docld 32310167 Page 3

113-7-211

---

## Page 4

DISP AN

CONTINUATION SHEET

REFORT NO: 6 827 0077 70

PAGE

2.

OF

2

PAGI

ORIGINATOR USDAO Santo Dominge

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

and make do with the modemization afforded the lst Bde and later the 9th Bn

by USMAGo.

They did receive

some 100 - 500 FAL rifles in 1968 through a bartor

arrangement with Interarned,

Alexandria, Virginia.

However no major arms pur-

been made since the

165 Revolution, although several unsuccessful

attempts were made by U.S. and other Arms dealers periodically to sell various

weapons systems, ie.,. FAl, Stoner, AR185s, etc.

Each time the actual arms bids

were boosted 105 by whoever was promoting the "deal", in the old Irujillo manner.

Speculators.

Mro Sam Cummins, President of Interarmco, Monaco, made his start following

WH IT selling surplus war materials to Trujillo.

The "Old Dominican Colonels"

remember both with affection and greed. Much of the Army is still equipped

with this Interarneo

surplus (tanks, armored cars, artillery, machine guns, mortars,

His agent still has lst chance at any bartering and selling

[cave Bic

Fre Irving Davidson, Washington, D.C., is another power in Dominican

selling

circles and much quoted on any type speculation. He is considered the top contaci

In the U:So by Dominican dealers.

Mro Leland Po Johnston, Minerals Industriates, O pos A, is a mining claims

speculator in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but has worked in armament sales during the

Trujillo era.

do Mro Karl Wa Lange, Vice Presidenü of Santiago, Ince, Clayton, Missouri and

Peguero, his Dominican pariner, are active. in

land, hotel and arms

speculation

(AR 18 sales)

The Peguero's (father and 2 brothers) are well connecte

politically, financially, and socially in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

Mro Herman Henriquez Lora and his brother are arms agents for Interarnco,

Dutch and

other U.So concerns (AR 18,

Stoner,. FAl, ate).

They are personal friends

of President BALAGUDR and General PEREZ y Perez and associates.

30

(X IT, Dal 7.62101 (NATO) Rifles Available. Faciosure 1 from Air Force

Colonel Felipe Rivas fordono,

Quartermaster General of War Materials for the

Dominican Armed Torces, states that his sources have located some 3500 FAL rifles

for sale in a NATO depot, 35 miles south of Hamburg, Germany.

The rifles to sell

at $90.00 (U.S.) each there, or $25:00 (U.S.). each, CIE,

Santo Domingo,

He wants

ga lo Gammany

to verify the

infomation anduo retum with 2 sample

Enclosurer?

sling,

sortage

arron Marx A. Go Of Germany, through SIDEM

ermen embassy in santo Dominge put their seal on this importation authoritatio

• the Arms Agent departed Santo Domingo for U.S. and Later. Germany on 9 May yy

COMMODITS:

(Q) There is no

doubt that the Military are lining up their election

promises and arranging

to present their bill to the President,

if hers. elected.

Arms pot in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but the "Head Chef!

PEREZ y Porezo

He's willing to look at all offers presented him

by his "Old Colonels" and their contacts, but will still have to see where he

personally stends following the elections.

President BALAGUER may want a new

Secretary.

Interestingly,

Mr. Commins of Interarco, in a letier to Mr. Enriquez written

on 29 April 70

from Monaco

said there were no surplus FAt, rifles available

sale and new ones would be $140.00 (U.S.) in Belgitho

Mr. Enriquer was going to

Brissels to check NATO for possible direct surplus sale rather than through Meriz

A.Gs of Germany.

so it remains do be seen, who will sell what, to whom, and for how

much kickback, etc.

WWW 66754 Docld:32310167 Page 4

---

## Page 5

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

BANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

"TODO

POR LA PATRIA"

7 de mayo de 1970.

10821

-AURORILACION.

basê &

lo que ne confiere el articulo 3r0. de la

Ley 36 de Lecha 1'7-10-65 sobre Comercio, Porte y Tenencia de

Armas,

autorizo al soñor HARNAN EuNRiQuez, cédula

Personal

lo Identidad No.2202 Berie 1ra., dominiCan©*

mayor de

edad,

residento en da orile 19 de marzo No.56 (altos).

santo

Do=

calidnd de mostras:

de madera y cubre Ilanarada

culata y empuñada

5oo Cargadores de (20) cápsulas

cade

uno;

2e« Porta cargadores de lona, de dos

cargado

nos dado weo;

Lo Bapodo para el fusil:

Lo Correa de Zona para el insid

1o Bollonador de cargadaros: y

Lo Inapo de limpioza bágico

(ana acoitemita.

Las ouolos obtendrá de

La Mada

de Alemanin, y/O SIDIN

ENRIQUE PEREZ I PEREZ

Major General,

Bo No

Secretazio de Estado de las Fuerzas Aradas.

DAM

di seistie

16 6 82700722014 MATO

TIS MANDRIAL REQUIRES

SPÉCIAL CLASSONCATION

PROCEDURES, REFER TO SAC

-LETTER 6212 (G) DARED

8.7-62

NW 66754 Docld:32310167 Page 5

---

## Page 6

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA

SECRITARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

POR RA

PATBIA"

1143

21 de abril de 1970.

Señor

Ho mán Heuriquoco

Corel Gabiong

Toridoy

Bo 20 ::

Batimado Señor Henroquez:.

tie complace mucho informarle

que he recibian tom

da la infomación por escrito, que me envio con el Dr MARINO A

RIZA.

Sobre los Fusiles FAL Calo7.62 (NATO),

tenjo

eirs

bien

que el domingo 19 de abril de 1970,

hemos reed

do

informacie, infornacion, confirada y ratificado,

de

manera

la giguiente

me no dojo lugar para

dudar o malos enfendidos ontso este ofici

no y la luente informanto, de todo crêdito,

on base a documentos

La intoracion que se nos

dió os la siguiente; muy concidenciale

"LA NATOS

esta reduciendo sus tuerzas considerablemente,

10

a dado crigen'a que las armas que osas fuoras usaban sean rein

tegradae a los depósitos de la NATO y están ajendo puestas en ve

Ge a precio atraetivos

siendo su catado cono nusvas:

aIma

so encuentran on la actualidad en un deposito de la

11a3 2l Sur de HAMBURGO:

Alemania: cudiendo ser embarcadas por e

misno puerto hamburgo directo a Santo Domingo, intre las armas

oncuentran a disponibilidad (3,500) misILes

211 0107.62 (NATO)

culate de maderi a un precio de almacén de US$90.00, siendo supu

cio DIF Santo Domingo de US$95.00"

Esto indudablemente, parece coincidas con respecto

o. la partida de armas,

& Le mirmas que ustod nos reliere;

20SO

tros nos

apresuramos

ponerlo

su conocimiento tal información

a fin de que usted la utilico Esto ha despertado tinto

interés

en la Superioridad,

que estamos pensando en que yo mijo viaje a

Alenania, con nuestra fuente inturnativa i fin in verificar de Is

partide y

tros,

aprasurar en cuanto soi: necesarin nota urnsacion hoso

bejo ningén concept:

armanos dejarlo fuera de cate

Encl No. 1

•t 5.:8

-icve-ll 6827007270 14 MA 201

NW 66754 Docld:32310167 Page 6

---

## Page 7

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

11.i

POB LA PATBIA®

-2=

21 de abril de 192009

do esta información cuanto

antes; hemos sabido aquilatary adie

ciar 10g

servicios que nos restade y en alguna foma banos de

corresponderleo Especirlmente por el interesante viaje que hizo

= Europa, en 1959, precismente para esta operación.

Deseo informarlo udemás,

que fa Be han impaitido

instricciones,

confirmadas,

de que nos están despachando cor

vión dos ejemplazes de dichos Fusiles.

Los cuales examinartidos

para dar nuestra conformidad; llegaran dentro de las

nacimas (90)

horas por avión.

Sobre este particular, esperamos sus prontas noticias

decisión Linal.

Inmediatamente recibamos los ejemplares que uos envían

le avisares

Cono siempre,

entamos trbajando con nuestro mayor enne

ño por ofrecer las mayores economías a los fondos de nuestro

ữ0-

biemno, a fin de que nuestra economía sea vulnerada lo nenos po

sible,

por lo menos en el capitulo que concierne a nuestro trabas

300

Usted gabe que esta toma de trabajo as mi norte y mi unico

idealo

En espera de sus

contas noticia

saludas

encamente,

VC,

Cotonel Piloto,

Tiendente Gonural del Maten

Kuerzas 4rnadar

Beion de 1u3

2212

Dirección Cablegaific:

IGMABERA

Actido de Joreos Nostal

Dominco, depo Dono

patone

ligi

NW 66754 Docld:32310167 Page 7

---

