# docid-32401327

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/99

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10302-10019

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CIA-DI-FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

OCI/CIA

TITLE

TO : DAILY SUMMARY

DATE

: 12/09/63

PAGES : 20

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:

TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:09/22/98

OPENING CRITERIA

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65360 Date: 11-17-2022

COMMENTS : JFK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.15:26:48:966120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

DAILY SUMMARY

9 December 1963

This summary of significant information has not been coordinated

outside the Office of Current Intelligence. It does not represent a

complete coverage of all current reports received, nor does time

permit the complete evaluation of all reports which are included.

CONTENTS

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

Three independent clandestine sources have reported on

the unloading of military equipment from the Soviet vessel

METALLURG BAIKOV in Havana harbor on 19 or 20 November.

(Page 1)

Soviet "coastal defense rockets" now belong to Cuban Army

artillery forces,

according to a recent speech by Raul

Castro; however, Soviets still appear to be involved in

the communications net which serves the cruise missile

system. (Page 1)

FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH:

In a 6-7 December speech devoted mainly to education,

Cas-

tro digressed to discuss the situation resulting from Vene-

zuela's charge that the arms cache discovered on

a Vene-

zuelan beach last month had come from Cuba. Castro implied

that the arms had been planted by CIA and

are being used

as a pretext for new action by the "imperialists and their

lackeys" against Cuba..

He expressed confidence that what-

ever the result, the Cuban revolution will not be defeated.

(Page 2)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

Faure Chomon Mediavilla is replacing Omar Fernandez as

transportation minister; Major Jesus Montane Oropesa will

be new communications minister. (Page 3)

Heavy rainfall has apparently caused damages to military

facilities in Pinar del Rio Province and hampered travel

in Oriente

Province. (Page 4)

i

- TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET DINAR

THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION:

A Spanish-language daily in New York claims Madrid police

are holding a self-confessed plotter against the late Presi-

(Page 4)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:

stroyed one acre of henequen.

A fare on a farm near Cardenas Pagtanzas Province, has de-

An attempt has been made to shoot the chief of the PURS in

Velasco, Camaguey Province. (Page

5)

A militiaman arrested in Guantanamo on 3 December for sus-

pected counterrevolutionary activities has been

freed.

(Page 5)

The DSE unit at Ciego de Avila has captured one insurgent

and reports the surrender of another; a resident of Jucaro

has been arrested for cashing an out-of-circulation 50-

dollar bill. (Page 5)

Thirty-two people attempting to flee Cuba were captured by

Cuban security forces on & December; this may be related to

an earlier report which stated that an undetermined number

of residents of Las Villas Province fled the country from

an unknown point of embarkation. (Page 6)

Several minor incidents of sabotage have been discovered

on CUBANA aircraft. (Page 6)

A DRE leader in Mexico City announced that 126 Cuban mili-

tiamen were killed in a clash with guerrillas near Sancti

Spiritus, Las Villas Province. (Page 6)

CUBAN AIR FLIGHT CONNECTIONS:

Spain has approved regularly scheduled Havana-Madrid flights

by CUBANA airlines,

JFK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

(Page 7)

SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:

The Argentine Government and the owners of the SS ANAMAR

are determined that it will not take a cargo of Soviet-

purchased coffee to Cuba. (Page 7)

ii

FOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET DINAR

Let 5 (9)(21(D)

DEVELOPMENTS:

The

informed his government on 5

December that severall

delegates have been impressed

by

the Cuban claim that the

weapons found in Venezuela last

month had actually been planted there by the US.

Apparently

unaware that elaborate efforts had been made to erase all

indications of the Cuban origin of the weapons, they wonder

why Cuba would permit evidence of its involvement in send-

ing arms to Latin American guerrillas to be traceable to

Cuba.

(Page

The

I dispatched an urgent message

to his

6 December expressing misgivings

as to the attitudes of members of the special

committee

appointed to investigate Venezuela's charges against the .

Castro regime.

(Page 8)

In relation to the investigation of the Venezuelan arms

cache, the

delegate to thel

has been instructed

not to show

"Sympathy or excessive understanding in rela-

tion to Cuba." (Page 9)

SOVIET-CUBAN RELATIONS:

A clandestine source has reported, possibly as a current

rumor, that Fidel Castro visited Moscow around 15 November;

there is no current evidence that he made any public appear-

ances in Cuba around that date. (Page 9)

BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS:

Five Polish merchantmen have been assigned to Cuban run.

(Page 10)

The Soviet-made AN-12 transport has landed in Cuba. (Page 10)

NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

The Moroccan foreign minister has received a Cuban "good-

will" mission for the second time; local expectation is

that formal relations will be re-established shortly.

(Page 11)

The President of Dahomey

declined an invitation to attend

the I January anniversary celebration in Cuba.

(Page 11)

iii

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 4

---

## Page 5

dat 5: 19) 1211D) .

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES:

ambassador in

is convinced of the

accuracy of Venezuelan charges of Cuban suoversion.

(Page 11)

There is an additional report on the use of a Cuban trans-

port plane to supply pro-Castro groups in Venezuela with

weapons.

(Page 12)

Cuban Charge Lasalle in Bolivia is reportedly supplying

weapons to the reitist section of the governing party,

as the serious political crisis there becomes more in-

(Page 12)

A clandestine source has reported that two Cubans are

with a group of Peruvian

leftists

currently hiding in

BOLIVia

and that Castro has agreed to provide money and

guerrilla training for a rival group.

(Page 12)

iv

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET DINAR

^!,«

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

Three independent clandestine sources have reported the

unloading of military equipment from a Soviet cargo vessel,

probably the METALLURG BAIKOV, on 19 or 20 November. This

vessel was suspected of carrying a military cargo long before

its arrival in Cuba.

(See Daily Summary of 12 November.)

It

carried what was probably the eighth full military cargo to

arrive in Cuba since the 1962 missile crisis.

One source,

retired civil engineer whose reporting has been factual and

in most instances based on personal observation, reported that

the METALLURG BAIKOV unloaded "large quantities of arms and

military equipment! in Havana on 20. November and left the next

Another

source reported that Havana longshoremen had

stated that a Soviet ship, which they did not identify, had

unloaded arms at Regla Wharf, Havana, on 20 November.

source,

an educated Cuban of

Western

European extraction who

is a resident of Havana, reported that tanks were among the

equipment unloaded from a Soviet vessel that arrived in Havana

on 19 November.

The three sources are probably referring to

the same shipment.

If the report on the delivery of tanks is

true, this would be the second consecutive reported shipment

of armored vehicles to Cuba.

The ORENBURG reportedly delivered

some 45 tanks on 23 or 24 October. (See Daily Summaries of 28

and 29 October.) It has previously been reported that another

probable military shipment, the ninth, is now en route aboard

the SLUTSK.

(See Daily Summary of 3 December.) (CIA TDCS-DB-

3/658,289, 6 December, ArCHIT NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DIS

SEM)

The Soviet "coastal defense rockets" now belong to the

Cuban Army artillery forces, according to a recent speech by

Raul Castro.

Cubans probably have been training in cruise

missile operations

since last spring, and the rotation and

withdrawal of some Soviet naval personnel in September suggested

that the cruise missile system was turned over to the Cubans

at that time.

A Soviet communications net which probably serves

the cruise missile system remains active, however, indicating

1963, SECRET KIMBO>

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

-1-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET DINAR

FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH:

Fidel Castro's speech of the night of 6-7 December was

on the occasion of the graduation of women teachers for the

literacy campaign. He devoted most of the 99 minutes to a

discussion of the development of local education in Cuba. At

one point, however, he made a moderately long digression to

discuss Venezuela and the situation raised by Venezuela's dis-

covery last month of a large cache of weapons, some of which

have been traced to Cuba.

Castro stated that,

while "the imperialists and their

lackeys" charge that Cuba is promoting subversion in Vene-

zuela, rebellion and subversion cannot be promoted from with-

The Venezuelan revolution, he maintained, stems from

the Venezuelan people's own disgust with their government and

with its permitting the "imperialists" to plunder Venezuela's

If subversion could, in fact, be promoted

from the outside, why, he asked, have all

the resources of im-

perialism failed

to subvert the Cuban Government?

Betancourt,

"that miserable lackey," is trying to incite

the United States to take military action against Cuba, Castro

As a pretext the Venezuelans say they have discovered

arms from Cuba on the Venezuelan coast, Castro stated.' "Some

01 the arms," he said, "are said to have borne an effaced Cuban

seal, and other arms are said to be bazookas, recoilless cannon,

mortars. But Cuban mortars perchance? No! Yankee mortars!

Yankee bazookas! Yankee recoilless cannon! Arms which we did

on, without specifically denying that the weapons had come from

Cuba, by implying that the CIA had obtained Cuban arms from

Cuban deserters and that it would not be difficult to plant

these weapons in Venezuela.

Here he is obviously referring

to the Belgian-made light rifles and submachineguns which have

been identified as among those shipped to Cuba in 1959 and

With respect to the US-made mortars, bazookas, and re-

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 7

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET DINAR

FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH - cont'd

"Things have changed quite a bit," Castro declared, "to

attack or to blockade Cuba now would

not be easy; we can de-

fend ourselves; we are calm; we know what we have to defend

ourselves with."

Then, in an implied reference to the Soviet

shipment of strategic missiles to Cuba last year, Castro de-

clared:

"When we hear some of these lackeys of imperialism

talking so calmly about invading Cuba, when it has been only

they are once more proving

us right and are once more justifying Cuba's taking defensive

measures; this talk led to the October crisis." Castro then

declared that "these men are so deceived by their own propaganda

that...they cannot conceive of what any invader would meet here."

A war against Cuba, he said, "would not end while there was a

single mercenary soldier treading on our soil."

Castro then returned briefly to his views as to how peace

can be assured in the Caribbean.

"Whatever they want to dis-

cuss with Cuba," he said, "let them come and discuss honestly

with Cuba; because we have stated the indispensable prerequisites

for

a peaceful atmosphere...in the Caribbean."

Thus

far, how-

ever, "they have answered with aggressions on top of aggressions."

I'his course, he said, "is doomed to failure." (CIA FBIS Havana,

7 December, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

A shake-up in the Cuban cabinet has moved Faure Chomon

Mediavilla to the post of transportation minister; he succeeds

Capt. Omar Fernandez,

whose ministry was recently under attack

oy Castro for alleged inefficiencies and "vices." Major Jesus

Montane Oropesa is replacing Chomon as comnunications minister.

Chomon, who served as Castro's first ambassador to the

Soviet Union, took over as communications minister in March

1962.

He is currently a member of the National Directorate

Of PURS.

Fernandez, his predecessor, is reportedly moving to

an unspecified position in the Ministry of Industries under

Che Guevara.

Montane took part in the attack on the Moncada Barracks

in 1953 and followed Castro to exile in Mexico. He took part

in the GRAMA expedition of 1956 when he was captured and im-

prisoned. After the revolution, he reportedly received only

a minor post in the government because he had talked too much

in prison.

His most recent post, dating from at least August

1962,

has been as number two man

• in the Tourism Institute

(INIT). He is said to be an ardent Marxist-Leninist, who

preaches it at every opportunity. (UPI 63, 6 December, UN-

CLASSIFIED; background information: SECRET)

-3-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 8

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET DINAR

Act 5

(9) (2) (D)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont 'd

Intercepted Cuban military messages of 7 December indicate

that serious rain damage has occurred in both Pinar del Rio

and Oriente provinces.

Five unidentified military units in

Pinar del Rio reported the extent of damage to their defensive

fortifications and facilities in messages to the operations

officer, apparently at fourth army headquarters in Pinar del

Rio.

More than half the trenches had been destroyed, the

shelters and command posts at most of the units reporting

had suffered serious damage, and division headquarters reported

Baten to are one to

that, while its facilities were still in good condition:; the

roads leading to it will have to be repaired. Meanwhile, in

Oriente Province, intercepts indicate that torrential rainfall

had caused the rivers to flood making travel difficult and

had forced the closing of the Baracoa airport.

2/SL

/R302-63, 8 December, SECRET KIMBO)

THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION:

The Reuters correspondent in Madrid has advised the US

Embassy that he has been queried by a New York client about

an 8 December El Tiempo report that Spanish police have de-

tained a Cuban national--45-year-old Enrique Pascual Ruedolo

Gongora, alleged to have arrived in Spain via an IBERIA flight

York on 23 November--in connection with a plot against

the late President Kennedy. Local police have confirmed deten-

* have ber too e

tion of Ruedolo. However, they claim that he arrived in Spain

on 29 November and to the best of their knowledge has abso-

lutely no connection with the assassination. They maintain

that he was expelled from the United States

reasons and is being held because he has been unable to

nited statos for undetermined

arrange onward travel to Cuba.

CAS is pursuing the matter

in Madrid.

(Am Emb Madrid, 1155, 7 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:

A

fire on 6 December on a farm near Cardenas, Matanzas

Province,

Havana in an 8 December intercepted message that the fire,

be sabotage,'

department:

eas put out by

the Cardenas fire

VR146-63,

8 December, SECRFT

KIMBO>

-4-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET DINAR

Act 5 (9) 121(0)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST - cont'd

On 6 December the Department of State Security (DSE) unit

in Moron informed provincial headquarters in Camaguey that on

5 December "they tried to shoot down the chief of the PURS in

Velasco... he escaped unharmed. Full details will be sent by

letter.

The message did not

indicate to whom "they" referred.

2/YJL YT922-63, 6 December, SECRET KIMBO>

The militiaman who was arrested in Guantanamo on 3

December for suspected counterrevolutionary activities (see

Darily Summary, 6 December) has been freed. Sector E headquarters

in Mayari Arriba informed First Army headquarters in San-

tiago on 5 December that Esteban Mendez Almaguer and Jose

Joiret Aria, both identified as natives of Quijada, were re-

Leased by the DSE.

The reason for their release was not given.

2/LRI/

JR197-63, 6 December, SECRET KIMBO>

The DSE unit at Ciego de Avila has captured one insur

gent and reports the surrender of another. On 6 December

the DSE provincial headquarters in Camaguey was informed that

the insurgent Demetrio Armas Izquierdo was captured near

Jatibonico. The message stated that Armas "was reportedly

active in the Havana, Matanzas, and Santa Clara areas,

most recently in Camaguey. He belonged to an insurgent band

led by one Carlo."

The same message reported the surrender

of Edmundo Almeida (see Daily Summary, 5 December), "previously

associated with the bands of Juan Alberto," to the DSE unit

at Jatibonico.

In addition, on 7 December Ciego de Avila reported the

arrest of Jesus Marquez, a 39-year-old resident of Jucaro.

Marquez is said to have cashed an "out-of-circulation 50-dollar

_/R138-63, 6 December and 2/YJ_

R140-63,

December, SECRET. KIMBOY

in undetermined number of residents of Vegas de

Palmas,

San Antonio de las Veultas and Agiada de Moya, Las Villas

recently fled the country from an unknown point of

Central Army headquarters in Santa Clara in-

formed Havana that the persons from Vegas de Palmas had been

identified as: Lacina Manso, Rodobaldo Monteagua, and

Moises Monson Garit, an ex-private in the revolutionary armed

forces.

Lima.

Isa mentioned as escapees were Feliz Perez, Inoes

/R301-63, 8 December, SECRET KIMBO>

- 5 -

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 10

---

## Page 11

TOP SECRET DINAR

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST - cont'd

In possible connection with the preceding item, 32

people attempting to flee Cuba were captured by Cuban

security forces on 8 December. Fifth Army Headquarters in

Camaguey informed Havana that a maritime patrol of the

coastal vigilance observation post captured a boat carrying

32 individuals in the area of Cayo Mariquibay, north of La

Bahia de Punta Alegre.

on the boat, which had left Caibarier

JFK Act 5 (9) 12) (D)

A trained clandestine source who is a civil aviation

expert with the Cuban Ministry of Transportation reports that

several minor incidents of sabotage have been discovered on

CUBANA aircraft.

On 15 November a CUBANA IL-14 made a

round-trip flight from Rancho Boyeros Airport to Nueva Gerona

without a storage battery.

The source comments that serious

trouble would have resulted if one engine had stopped or had

been feathered while en

This incident may be related

to various acts of subtle sabotage against CUBANA aircraft,

such as stuffing exhaust tubes with rags or obstructing car-

buretor intakes.

In addition, the source reports that a CUBANA Britannia

aircraft was sabotaged by Algerian personnel during a recent

flight to Algiers.

The bydraulic line was fractured forcing

the crew to use manual controls to lower the landing gear for

a stop in Madrid.

(CIA IN 75941, 8 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN

DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM)

Press dispatches from Mexico City report that a leader

of the Revolutionary Students

Directorate (DRE) announced

that 126 Cuban militiamen had been killed in a clash with

guerrillas 12 miles south of Sancti Spiritus, Las Villas

Province.

Angel Gonzales said that "belated

underground

reports just received" indicated that the clash took place

in mid-September when a guerrilla force ambushed a militia

unit and killed 1l militiamen.

The guerrilla forces lost 18

men, including Negro

guerrilla leader Andre Startabull and

three captains identified as Carlos Roca, Julio Garcia, and

Sergio Perez.

The Castro regime then sent 5,000 men sup-

ported by tanks, mortars, and helicopters to destroy the

guerrillas.

After two weeks of fighting, the entire guerrilla

unit was destroyed but not until 115 other militiamen had been

killed.

There is no confirmation from COMINT or other sources

of any

action of the magnitude reported by the DRE. (AP-131,

Mexico City, Y December, UNCLASSIFIED)

-6-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 11

---

## Page 12

K Act 5. 19) 2) (D)

TOP SECRET DINAR

!

CUBAN AIR FLIGHT CONNECTIONS:

Spain has approved regularly scheduled Havana-Madrid flights

by CUBANA airlines, according to an intercepted message of 7 De-

Ut was previously reported that the Spanish Government

was unwilling to reduce these flights because it believes the

connections are vital to Spain; however, the Foreign Ministry

said it would limit CUBANA flights to Havana-Madrid-Havana with-

out stops in Algiers or Prague, and would refuse landing to

(See Daily Summary of 18 November.)

It has also been reported that CUBANA is assured of capacity

passenger loads for the Havana-Madrid service and plans. to pool

air freight from all of Western Europe for delivery to Havana

summary of 4 December.)

_/T211-63, 8 December,

SPERET SABRE Background information: NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:

Argentina is reportedly attempting to stop one of its ships--

the SS ANAMAR--from delivering a cargo of coffee to Cuba, despite

the fact that there are currntly no legal restrictions against

Argentine ships calling anywhere in the world. The ANAMAR leIt

Brazil on l November with a cargo of Brazilian coffee, purchased

by the

USSR and destined for Cuba.

(See Daily Summary of 8 No-

vember.) The Argentine Foreign Ministry informed US Embassy of-

ficials that it was determined to prevent the ANAMAR from going

to Cuba because of potential unfavorable press reaction.

tina wants to avoid legal and financial entanglements in the mat-

ter; however, it is determined to stop the ship and

is reportedly

even considering some type of provocation which would force the

ship to put into Puerto Rico. The owners of the ANAMAR are

equally adamant that the ship will not go to Cuba; reportedly

they had agreed to ship coffee from Brazil to some Central Amer-

ican country to pay some back bills, and were only informed later

that the shipment would go to Cuba.

According to the owners, the

ship is now lying off the coast of Brazil awaiting resolution

of the problem. The owners reportedly stated they will

Sere rather than go to Cuba.

(Am Emb Buenos Aires 1017, 4 Decem-

CONFIDENTIAL)

DEVELOPMENTS:

reported to his gov-

ernment from Washington on 5 December that severall

_delegates

have been impressed by the Cuban claim that the weapons found in

Venezuela last month had actually been planted there by the

United States.

-7-

-TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 12

---

## Page 13

(9) 12) (D)

TOP SECRET DINAR

DEVELOPMENTS - cont'd

These delegates, l

stated, "are wondering

whether the Cuban Government would be so stupid as to send

to Venezuela arms with the inscription 'Cuban Army' and the

insignia of Cuba engraved on them"' as indicated by the Vene-

zuelan photographs shown at the

These delegates believe,

went on, that if Cuba had actually sent the arms

to Venezuela it would

and the others of whom he speaks are apparently unaware

that

considerable effort had, in fact, been made to erase all

evidence of the Cuban origin

of these

arms.

The 31 submachine

guns found in the cache had their serial numbers and other

identifying marks recently ground off. Venezuelan technicians,

using a highly technical process, were able to raise the serial

numbers and the Cuban shield on some of the weapons. In inde-

pendent tests, US technicians were able to raise the numbers

and shields an three of these weapons. The numbers correspond

to those of weapons known to have been delivered to Cuba from

Belgium in 1959 and 1960.

Similarly, in the case of the 81

light automatic rifles of Belgian manufacture found in the

cache, all identifying marks had been obliterated.

In this

case, one-fourth inch of molten brazing alloy had been used

to cover the places where the numbers had been ground off and

it was not possible to restore the numbers. However, Venezuelan

military authorities have noted that these weapons are unique

to those manufactured expressly for the Cuban Government by

Belgium's Fabrique Nationale in 1959, when Cuba ordered 22,500

such weapons.

(NSA 3/0)

KT2041-63, 6 December, TOP SECRET

DINAR, background data: DECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

The

dispatched a "personal, urgent,

and

confidential" message to his

on 6 December

f the specia.

Venezuelan charges against the Castro regime which the committee

was named to investigate.

The ambassador reported that he had

just received "strictly confidential information" that the pre-

vailing opinion within the committee is that it must investigate

the entire subject of Cuban subversive activities in Venezuela,

not limiting itself to the evidence on the Cuban origin of the

arms cache found in Venezuela last month.

-8-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 13

---

## Page 14

- TOP SECRET DINAR

Act 5 (9) (2)(D).

DEVELOPMENTS: - cont'd

The committee members, the ambassador stated, insist

that

It is essential for the Venezuelan Government to "pre-

sent proof of the general Cuban conspiracy" against the Vene-

Zuelan Goverment if the case against Cuba is to be proven.

The

ambassador added that "one of the most important

members of the committee" had stated that the Venezuelan evidence

on the Cuban origin of the arms cache is not airtight and that

the arms could actually have been resold by Cuba to someone

else some years ago or stolen from Cuban arsenals.

The

ambassador then stated that the editor

of a "very important US magazine" had asked him in all serious-

ness on 6 December whether the arms could not have been planted

in Venezuela by the CIA, as Castro has chargeds The editor

added that this question had been asked of him by "'important

ersons" with whom he had discussed the problem. The

ambassador used this to emphasize to his foreign min-

ister that he beljeves the Venezuelan Government must not

He pointed out that important

persons in the United States, both in government and the press,

have pointed out Venezuela's evidence on the arms cache may

provide "the

first opportunity" to confront the threat of

Cuban subversion in the hemisphere.

These individuals may be

critical of the Venezuelan Government, the ambassador warned,

if its sticks to its demand that the investigation be limited

to the arms cache evidence.

(NSA 3/01

T514-63, Y December,

TOP SECRET DINAR)

The

delegate to the

was informed of his

country's position on the investigation of the Venezuelan

arms

cache, according to a 2 December intercepted

message.

The Foreign Ministry informed him that he was to "avoid any

attitude which might seem to leave Brazil isolated in a posi-

tion which could be interpreted as one of sympathy or exces-

sive understanding in relation to Cuba." On the other hand,

he was instructed not to "openly state the opinion that the

matter

falls exclusively under the competence of the Venezuelan

security authorities."

The delegate was advised to delay his

departure

"until the situation is clarified." (NSA 3/0

T206-63, 6 December, TOP SECRET DINARY

SOVIET-CUBAN RELATIONS:

Fidel Castro may have been in Moscow about 15 November

for talks with Premier Khrushchev, according to a civil

aviation expert who is apparently passing on a rumor he

heard in Cuba.

The source reported as background that Castro

has not appeared on

Cuban TV and did not meet people he ap-

parently would have met if he had been in Cuba.

-9-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 14

---

## Page 15

TOP SECRET DINAR

SOVIET BLOC RELATIONS - cont 'd

There have been no reported Castro appearances around 15

November.

On 7 November he

talked with a group of students

at Havana University and on

19 November he reportedly visited

a PURS meeting in Matanzas.

However, between these two

dates there is no current evidence that he appeared on Cuban

ances in Cubaand Hoy carried no reports of his personal appear

This does not, however, rule out the possibiliti

that he was indeed in Cuba in mid-November. (CIA IN 75946, &

December, -SECRET)

BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS:

Warsaw has assigned five merchantmen with a capacity of

44,000 tons to the Cuban - Central American trade, according to

announcement by Havana television.

The ships

one of which

is refrigerated, will be operated by CUBALCO--the Rostock-head-

quartered joint company chartered by Poland, the GDR, Czecho-

slovakia and Cuba to carry goods between Cuba and the northern

satellites.

In the words of Havana television,

"the enterprise

will be responsible for guaranteeing supplies to the first

socialist country of America, thereby contributing to the

defeat of the US economic blockade against Cuba."

(CIA/FBIS,

7 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

Soviet air defense and Cuban civil air voice communica-

tions on 7 December reflected the arrival in Cuba of a Soviet-

(See Daily Summary,

6 December). The following

aay, Prensa Latina announced that "the Cuban air force" had

freight between the two capitals and "three or four stops at

cities not yet announced by the

Cuban consolidated aviation

enterprise."

The references to the AN-12 being acquired by the "Cuban

whether it is to be used primarily for military or civil air

purposes.

As pointed out previously, however

(see Daily

Summary

of 3 December), the AN-12 can be used interchangeably

In both types of service.

Its employment in bringing mili-

tary cargoes to Cuba from the Soviet Union would be hampered,

however, by range factors which would require it to refuel

at two or more nonbloc airports between Cuba and the USSR.

spections.

(USA-71,

CRET KIMO, CIA/FBIS

JEK Act 5 (g) (2)(D)

-10-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 15

---

## Page 16

TOP SECRET DINAR

NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

The Moroccan foreign minister has received a three-man

Cuban "good-will" mission for the second time and the Istiqlal's

Nation claims that a resumption of formal diplomatic relations

is imminent, according to the US Embassy in Rabat (see Daily

Summary for

29 November and 6. December). According to a semi-

official account of the meeting, which took place on 4 December,

the Cubans reasserted their desire to normalize relations and

professed a lack of hostile intentions against the Moroccan

Government--which severed formal relations

cians" arrived in Algeria on 22 October.

in Rabat claim that the

at the governor 2 cons corne e

after Cuban "techni-

"Informed sources"

demarche with "attention." The Nation explains that the Cubans

now recognize that Morocco has not been the aggressor in the

Algerian conflict and that they are "repentant" over their pre-

cipitous action in aiding Ben Bella. (Am Emb Rabat, 866, 6 De-

cember, LIMITED OFFICIAL USE)

The President of

declined an invitation to attend

the 1 January anniversary

celebration in Cuba, l

conversation of 3 December. The

In

received the invitation from his

Cuban counterpart;

however,

the president declined because he

said It was "hardly possible" for him to be in Cuba in January.

It is not clear if

will desionate an official representa-

tive to the celebration.

6/12/1963, 6. December,

SECRET SABRE

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY:

The

ambassador in

informed his govern-

ment, in an intercepted 2 December message, that he is con-

vinced of the accuracy of the Venezuelan Government's charges

of Cuban subversion in Venezuela. He pointed out that the

heavy voting in Venezuela's 1 December national election dem-

onstrates that the legal opposition in Venezuela is not impli-

cated in the violence and terrorism.

He also stated that the

Castro regime is so thoroughly repudiated by Venezuelan pub-

Ic opinion that the Venezuelan Government has no need to the

artifis

ial means to stimulate anti-Castro feeling there.

ambassador pointed out that many Venezuelan Communists

are in Cuba and from there "they permanently incite rebellion"

in Venezuela and Cuban propaganda supports their efforts.

3/0/21

JT104-63, 7 December, TOP SECRET DINAR NO FOREIGN

DISSEM)

-11-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 16

---

## Page 17

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY - cont'd

is additional information on Cuban use of a DC-4

aircraft allegedly to supply Venezuelan guerrillas with weapons

A clandestine source who is a civil

expert and affiliated with the Cuban Ministry of Trans-

portation reports hearing rumors to the effect that the recently

refurbished CUBANA DC-4 with CUBANA registry number CUT-785 has

been issued a "Guiana license," presumably a license for operation

in British Guiana, and has been operated by military personnel.

He adds that

"it is said that clandestine flights have been made

to Venezuela."

The same source had previously reported the re-

furbishing of this plane and some others and indicated that extra

fuel tanks had been installed on them. (CIA DD/P IN 75942, 8 De-

cember, SECRET/ CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

The Cubans are reportedly involved in the serious political

crisis now under way in Bolivia, where a split between President

of the governing party and the leftist sector led

by Vice President Lechin threatens serious civil disorder.

Cuban

Chargé Lasalle has given two boxes of arms to leaders of the left

section of the party for use in the Catavi-Siglo mining area, ac-

cording to information received by a clandestine source.

The

source, a medium-level member of the left section of the govern-

ing party who has excellent contact with national leaders of

that section and who is apparently trusted by Lasalle, was given

this information by a Bolivian labor leader who added

that he

had personally received the arms from Lasalle.

The source re-

ports that the arms are of German origin and had been stored in

Lasalle's house in La Paz. (CIA DD/P La Paz, IN 76093, 8 December,

SECRET)

Two unnamed Cubans are reportedly with a group of 18 members

of the Peruvian Army of National Liberation (ELN) who are cur-

rently hiding in Bolivia, according to a usually reliable medium-

level member of the Peruvian Movement of the Revolutionary Left

(MIR) who is in regular contact with MIR leaders.

of the ELN may have been returning from training in Cuba, since

past.

necessary documentation.

In return, the weapons owned by

the ELN--automatic weapons and "San Cristobal" carbines--wili

be turned over to the MIR, reportedly in accordance with an order

from Fidel Castro.

Once the ELN youths are back in Peru, the MIR

will look after them and try to convert them to the cause. The

object is to eliminate the ELN as a rival force.

-12-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TOP SECRET DINAR

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY - cont'd

Possibly related to this reported plan to upgrade the MIR

report from the same source that Fernandez said on 6 December

that Castro

recently sent money to the MIR leaders and offered

to train more of its members in Cuba. Fernandez said that in the

future, groups of MIR members will go alternatively to North Korea

Cuba for guerrilla warfare training.

(CIA Lima TDCS-3/566, -

662, 6 December, and TDCS-3/566,947, 8 December, -SECRET NO FOREIGN

DISSEM)

-13-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 18

---

## Page 19

NW 65360 Docld:32401327 Page 19

---

