# docid-32305569

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10288-10199

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3267-678

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

-06/12/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JRO, ASSOC, RES, TRA, DESERT INN HOTEL, FINANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Escassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32305569 Page 1

4.

---

## Page 2

0-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

6/12/65

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC,.

LOS ANGELES (92-113 C)

JOHN ROSEILLI, aka

AR

GEORGE HOPKINS, Manager, and KAREN CANTOR, PCI,

switchboard operator, Glen lowers Apartments, 1333 South

Beverly

Glen Boulevard, Los Angeles, advised that ROSsELLI and his current

girl friend, NANCY CZAR (CZARNECKI), who is living at theo

apartment with ROSSELLI,

left the apartment on 5/24/65 and

did not return until 6/3/65. Both ROSSELLI and CZAR have

been at the apartment since their return.

The Las Vegas Office advised that ROSSELLI was at

the Desert Inn Hotel in Las Vegas from June 1 or 2 until

the evening of June 3, 1965, when he departed for Los Angeles

via TWA.

An informant advised that NANCY CZAR told him

recently that she is going with JOHN ROSSELLI and that ROSSELLI

told her that if the FBI comes to talk to her she should tell

them that she would only talk to them in the presence of her

attorney. She also said that ROSSELLI was an important man.

Examination of the EMANUEL ROTHMAN, Trustee Account

(Union Bank, Los Angeles), which is used for financial activities

Of ROSSELLI reflects a deposit on 5/4/65 of $5,000 in the

form.of a

check drawn on the Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills,

California, where ROSSELLI maintains his personad bank account.

* Bureau

REC. 19

I - Las Vegas (92-467) (Info) : EX-10k

92-32671618

2 - Los Angeles

HED: jem

(6)

14 JUN I A 1965.

Flyo

Approved WIS

Special

Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

NW 68262 Docld:32305569 Page 2

---

