# docid-34517454

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Tennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:Nvy 64954 Date:

1-14-2022

Date :

Page

:1

11/03/98

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10001-10186

RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC678001R - PAGES 1176I-1176L

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SOS, CIA, DIA, DOA, USAF

TITLE : HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES, INTERNAL

SECURITY-HAITI

DATE: 11/18/66

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS : MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/08/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE,

PER MEMO DTD 17 OCT

97.

NW 64954

Docld:34517454 Page 1

---

## Page 2

RVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ATTENTION

The report wan loaned ls the dir: Force by

Investlandte neoney.

Thes

report.

mnother

and the Informntion

ontained thereli will not he dissemirnted to un-

authorized persons.

Dissemination

will not be madel

outside the USAl nor will the information contrined

therein be reproduced without

prior

written approval

of the Director of Special Investigations.

report has served its purpisse

When this

it will be returned to

the OSl nctivity which furnished it

SEGRET

I RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL FEMAL

18-40AM 11-9-66 MLI

TO: SECRETARY OF STATE DB3

40Х

NOV 1 8 1966

GLS

0 дл

TO :

DIRECTOR, CIA DOI

TO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 001

TO: DEPARTMENI OF THE ARMY DOI

10: DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 0825-946

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

F 7

16171

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(SECRETY HAITIAN REVOLUTIOPARY ACTIVITIES, INTERNAL SECURITY-HAITI.

ON NOVEMBER EIGHT, ONE MINE SIX SIX, CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE

WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST, FURMISHED THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

LAS OF NOVERBER SEVEN, ONE NINE SIX SIX, MITCHELL WER BELLO

X R

AMERICAN ADVENTURER FRON POWDER SPRINGS, GAO, WHO HAS LONG BEEN

INTERESTED IN LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS, WAS LIVING AT ROOM ONE ZERO

SEVEN, UNIVERSITY INN, CORAL GABLES, FLA., UNDER THE NAME THRAFU •

WER BELL UNTIL RECENTLY HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN A PLAN

OF ROLANDO NASFERRER ROJAS, NOTORIOUS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILE,

TO INVADE HAITI, UTILIZING A BASE I THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. R

ON MIGHT OF NOVEMBER SEVEN, VER BELL MET WITH CUBAN EXILE

RICARDO ADOLIS COBOS AND RALPH SERRANO, DOMINICAN BORN

HOODLUM WITH LONG POLICE RECORD WHO HAS BEEN RECENTLY ASSOCIATED

WITH EUGENE VAXIMILIEN, KAITIAN CONSUL GENERAL IN MIAMI. (S

12)

END PAGE ONE

(39)

11761

GROU? 1

Exclus

automatic

SECRET

rading and

at

eclassification

N 64954

Docld:34517454 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

PAGE TWO

WER BELL ADVISED THAT CONTACT HAD BEEN ESTABLISHED BY HIM WITH

MAXIMILIEN, WHO HAD AGREED TO PURCHASE A SUPPLY OF FIREARMS

CURRENTLY STORED AT THE HAINA NAVAL BASE IN THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC• MAXIMILIEN CLAIMS TO HAVE AGREED TO PAY TWENTY THOUSANDS

DOLLARS FOR DELIVERY OF THESE ARMS TO THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT AT PORT

AU PRINCE, HAITI.

REGARDING THESE FIREARMS, SOURCE SAID THEY CONSIST OF

MACHINE GUNS, SMALL ARMS AND AMMUNITION VALUED AT APPROXIMATELY

EIGHT TO TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS. THEY WERE FORMERLY UNDER CONTROL

OF JOSE RABEL, CUSAN EXILE AND CAPTAIN OF MOTOR VESSEL "VENUS"

WHO WAS CAPTURED BY CUBA"S IN CUBA IN ONE NINE SIX FIVE• THEREAFTER,

CONTROL OF THESE ARMS PASSED TO COBOS, CHIEF ENGINEER AND

SECOND IN COMMAND OF THE VENUS"• IN AUGUST, ONE NINE SIX SIX,

COSOS CONTACTED COMMODORE RAMON EMILIO JIMENEZ, CHIEF OF THE DOMINIC:

NAVY, AND RELIIQUISHED COMTROL OF THESE ARMS IN FAVOR

OF DRO LAWRENCE MITCHELL, WEALTHY VETERIMARIAN FROM ATLANTAS

GAO, IN PART PAYMENT OF A DEBT OF ELEVEN THOUSAND DOLLARS

OWED BY JOSE RADEL TO DR. MITCHELL• ALTHOUGH DRO MITCHELL

ACCEPTED CONTROL OF THE ARMS AT THE DINE, HE TOLD COMMODORE

JIMENEZ HE VAS NOT INTERESTED IN POSSESSION GUNS ARKS ENTE

END PAGE TWO

(4°)

1176j

DEGDASSIRIGAION SOMEDULE

SECHL.

NW 64954

Docld:34517454 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

PAGE THREE

BUT ONLY IN MONEY WHICH MIGHT BE REALIZED FROM THEIR SALE•

WER BELL ADVISED THAT HE HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH DR. MITCHELL

IN ATLATTA ON NOVEMBER SEVEN, WHO AGREED TO RELINQUISA HIS LEGAL

CONTROL OF THESE ARMS FOR THE SUM OF THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS, ALTHOUGH

HE DID NOT WANT TO BECOME INVOLVED WITH WER BELL IN THE DISPOSITION OR

SALE OF THESE ARMS.

WER BELL OUTLINED THE FOLLOWING PLAN FOR DELIVERY OF

THESE ARTS TO THE HAITIAN GOVERIMENT: (5)

ON THE MORNING OF NOVENSER EIGHT, WER BELL WOULD MEET WITH

HAITIAN CONSUL GENERAL MAXIMILIEN AND CONE TO A FINAL AGREEVENT (52

ON PRICE TO BE PAID FOR THESE ARMS. THEREAFTER, COBOS WOULD

CONTACT GETERAL ENRIQUE PEREZ Y. PEREZ, DOMINICAN ARMED FORCES

MLMISTER, BY TELEPHONE ON MOBSMBEP EIGHT, AND REQUEST HIS AUTHORITY

FOR REMOVAL OF THESE ARMS DURING THE COMING WEEX• AFTER SUCH

AUTORITY IS RECEIVED IN WRITING, VER SELL WILL DEPART FROM

FI. LAUDERDALE, FLA., ON A SIXTY FOOT YACHT, "HONEY II CURRENTLY

DOCHED AT FT• LAUDERDALE, AND WILL PROCEED TO THE MAINA CAVAL

BASE, WHERE THE FIREARNS WILL BE LOADED ONTO THE YACHT AND (S

DELIVERED TO THE HAITIAN AUTHORITIES AT PORT AU PRINCE,

HAITI. WER BELL ADVISED HE HAD ALREADY ARRANGED TO LEASE THE (SX

END 'PAGE THREE

8?

el)

SECRET

176K

EXCLUDED FROM GAZILAL

SIGNINON SCHEDULE

NW 64954

Docld:34517454 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

PAGE FOUR

YACHT "HONEY II" FOR THE SUM OF TWO HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS A DAY OR

ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS A WEEK, WHICH INCLUDES THE SERVICES

OF ITS CAPTAIN.

ON NOVEMBER EIGHT, ONE NINE SIX SIX, WER BELL ADVISED THAT

HAITIAN CONSUL GENERAL MAXIMILIEN WAS SCHEDULED TO MEET HIM IN HIS MOTEU

ROOM AT THE UNIVERSITY INN AT TEN AM THAT DATE TO FINALIZE ABOVE PLANS.

THE SOURCE

SPECULATED THE POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT

WER BELL IS ATTEMPTING TO SELL THE ABOVE IDEA TO MAXIMILIEN IN CS2

ORDER TO OBTAIN NECESSARY FUNDS FOR RENTAL OF BOAT WHICH COULD

BE USED IN CONNECTION WITH ORIGINAL PLAN OF ROLANDO MASFERRER

TO TRANSPORT ARMS AUD MEN DIRECTLY TO HAITI.

GP - 1

END AND HOLD FOR ACKS PLS

EXCLUDED POON GENERO

DECLASS IGNION SCUEDUCE

(4*) SECRET

176L

NWV 64954

Docld:34517454 Page 5

---

