# docid-32286413

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10189

HQ

92-3171-1819

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO. :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/23/1966

3

SGI, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, REL, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32286413 Page 1

32

Date:

5/7/2015

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

68436 Date: 12-01-2022

---

## Page 2

36 (RE

5512-13-5611

FBI

Date:

5/23/66

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAIN

• (Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC,

NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA aka

AR

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLISSIBIED

DATE 4-а4-в.Й

D/SPERSE

(00: CHICAGO)

RES

ReNYtel, 5/20/66; Chicagoteletypes 5/20 and 21/66

and Chicago telephone call, 5/21/66. U

Enclosed herewith for the Chicago Office are 9 copies

each of two FD-302s reflecting interviews with OSKAR G

DANIELSON, New York Telephone Company and

West 12th Street, NYC.V7

I NAOME AF LANNERY, 171

Allos.

Franklanne. re

on 5/19/66, PCI RANDY BURKE advised SAS PAUL G. DURKIN

and CHARLES G. DONNELLY that NAOMI FLANNERY had been a secretary

for the McGuire Sisters.

He advised that she married an individual

named FLANNERY, who worked as Program Director for the Columbia

Broadcasting System in NYC. They used to live at the Schwab

House, NYC, but had moved to somewhere in the Greenwich Village

area of NYC.U

on 5/19/66, former PCI RUDOLPH RASMUSSEN, Superintendent,

525. Pary Avenue, NYC,

advised SAS DURKIN and DONNELLY that

PHYLLISAMC GUIRE was last seen here the previous Monday (5/16/66).

He advised he would attempt to determine her present

whereabouts.

- Bureau (AMSD)

1

- Chicago (92-349) (Encl. 18) (AMSD)

- Philadelphia (92-207) (Info)

1

- New York

-- REC 37

92-3171-1819

MAY 24 1966.

CGD: pos

(8)

WIN

aim

1 Special Agent in Charge

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Sent

.M Рег

NW 68486 Docld:32286413 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-793

Nil

Theatrical Agent for the

advised sA ANthoNY R.

VILLANO that NAOMI FLANNERY was formerly the secretary for the

McGuire Sisters. He pointed out she was not PHYLLIS MC GUIRE S

personal secretary, but was shared between the three sisters,

himself and a bookkeeper.

operate are et

He said at the present time, ANNA

DONALD has this position. He advised that PHYLLIS MC GUIRE is

presently on a vacation and is expected to return in about one

week to NYC, at which time the sisters will rehearse for a few

weeks.V.

111 WesT at St New irk

Columbia Broadcasting

that his wife is NAOMI FLANNERY, who used to work for PHYLLIS

MC GUIRE. He was advised the agents wished to interview her

and desired his home address. He refused to furnish his home

address and stated he will contact his wife and at his convenience

will telephonically recontact the agent and advise if he will

make his wife available for interview. U

Shortly thereafter, PCI RANDY BURKE telephonically.

• contacted SA DURKIN and advised the FLANNERYs are presently

residing at 171 West 12th Street, NYC. V

SAS VILIANO and DONNELLY contacted an individual at

Apartment 4C, 171 West 12th Street, NYC, who stated she was

FRANK FLANNERY's sister, but refused to furnish her name. She

stated NAOMI FLANNERY was presently at work and not home. She

telephonically contacted NAOMI FLANNERY and advised the agents

that NAOMI told her she was going to make an appointment with

the agents. V.

Later on 5/19/66, FRANK FLANNERY telephonically

contacted SA DONNELLY and advised that he had been in touch with

an attorney and he would make his wife, NaoMI, available for

interview if the agent could assure him that. this one intervien

would be the end of this

"annoyance"

He was advised the agent

could give no such assuran

and he thor stated, "You'1l have

co go through the courts"

-2 =

NW 68486 Docld:32286413 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92=793

On 5/20/66, FRANK FLANNERY contacted SA DONNELLY

telephonically and advised he would make his wife available

for interview. that evening.

He suggested that the agents

meet him and his wife at 12 vanderbilt Avenue, Nic. V

The results of this interview are set forth in

enclosed ED-302. V

New York will continue attempts to locate and subpoena

In accordance with instructions from the Chicago

office. v

JFK Law 10(a)2

NW 68486 Docld:32286413 Page 4

---

