# docid-32243321

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Cennedy assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107 Notel

Laced mw bozbl Late.

04-01-2022

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10355

RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10355

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 09/06/77

PAGES: 8

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

GIANGRASSO, DOMINICK K.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION: U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box. #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U:S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Dominick K. Giangrasso

Employee Social Security Number

Effective Date

October 30, 1977

Type of Action

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

I Appointment

D: Salary Adjustment

ExTermination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff Investigator

$24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

i. L Standing Committee: Staff-[J Clerical or E Professional.

2.152 Special or Select Committee: Authority.- H. Res.

465

of95th _ Congress.

3.

Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number..

If applicable; Level_

Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5: U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date_

November 14

., 1.96.

eb

-=-

Signature of Authorizing Official

Louis Stokes

-------

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chaiman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

: All appointments and salary adjustments .for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S_

00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NWV 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MORAND

UM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director 4f

October 13, 1977

RE: Mr. Dominick K. Giangrasso

10-13-78

In reference to my previous memorandum dated October 4,

1977 on Dominick K. Giangrasso, this is to inform you that

he has been granted administrative leave through October 31,

1977, which will be the date of his termination.

GRB: j1

Attachment

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director

084-2

SUBJECT: Dominick K. Giangrasso

DATE: October 4, 1977

Mr. Giangrasso has resigned from the Committee

Staff for personal reasons. His resignation is effective

as of today.

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen):

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official:).

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name: (First-Middle-Last):

Dominick K. Giangrasso

Effective Date

9/6/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action 11:

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

i Appointment

Salary Adjustment

[.Termination(At.close of.business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)a

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff Investigator

$24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.E Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or E Professional:

2. L Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res..

465

of 5th

Congress:

3.

•Joint Committee.

(If Employee. of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

: If applicable, Level.

Step--

I certify. that this authorization is. not in violation of 5 US.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of...

relatives.

Date-

Septenber 15

., 19

77

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of. Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees..under. the House:Classification. Act.and for Committee:em-

ployees, except.those of. the.Committee.on Appropriations; the Committee..on the Budget, and. the.Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on. House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code._

Monthly Annuity $

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MEMORANDUM

O.K.

8-24-77

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

Mr. Blakey

Edward M. Evans YE

August 24, 1977

SUBJECT: Dominick Kevin Giangrasso - Investigator

Mr. Giangrasso has agreed to take a position with us

as Staff Investigator assigned

to the Martin Luther King, Jr.

Task Force.

He will start September 6, 1977 at $24,000.

EME: ek

NWV 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Conmittees,

Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

// I am related

‚to à current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

ландласі

Signature of Employee

6 Sept.a22.

NWV 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 8

---

## Page 9

EVANS

RESUME

Dominick Kevin Giangrasso

7902 Wallace Road

Baltimore, Maryland 21222

(301) 285-2826

RECEIVED

1977 AUG - 8 PH 2: 58

U.S. HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Born:

Health:

Appearance :

Marital Status:

PERSONAL

October 26,

1942 - Baltimore, Maryland

Excellent; last physical taken

Height 6' 4"; Weight 188 lbs.

Married - Lorraine M. nee Novak

Date of Birth Sept. 11, 1942

Three Children - Dominick Anthony. - June 6, 1967

Lisa Ann

November 24, 1968

Derek Joseph

February 11, 1974

Religious Affiliation Roman Catholic

EDUCATION

Baltimore Public School system until 12th grade

High School equivalency received July, 1967

At present, I have earned 45 credits towards an

Associate of Arts Degree in Criminal Justice at

Essex Community College, Baltimore County, Md.

EXPERIENCE

January 10, 1964 sworn into the Baltimore City Police Department - finishing

3rd in standing of 27 graduates. Thereafter assigned to the Southeastern

District in uniform patrol that covered high crime areas. During this as-

signment I handled all types of felony and misdemeanor investigations and

arrests.

December 1967 transferred to the Criminal Investigation Division and assigned

to the Vice Control Unit. In this capacity was assigned to undercover work in

the areas of prostitution and gambling violations.

While in this assignment,

I kept a low profile and learned to develop sources of select confidential

information.

In May 1968 was promoted to Detective Patrolman and re-assigned to the Crimes

Against Persons Unit - Homicide Squad, which is my present assignment. While

in this division, I have personally investigated in the excess of 225 homidices

and have been actively involved with another 150 homicide investigations.

have also conducted hundreds of investigations into the areas of questionable

death, suicide, serious assault, kianapping, armed robbery, extortion, threats

of death and hostage situations.

For a period of about four years, have also

investigated numerous sex related offenses such as rape, perverted practices,

etc.

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Paqe 9

---

## Page 10

Page 2

As a result of these investigations, I have testified in the muncipal court,

Criminal. Court Supreme Bench, and the Grand Jury systems in the city of Barte-

more and State of Maryland.

On most occasions, the court recognizes me as an

expert in the field of homicides and related death investigations.

During my assignment in the Homicide Squad, I have acted in the capacity of

field supervisor for about 3 1/2 years, supervising 5 to 1 investigators and

their assignments.

Have also had the experience of acting undercover while

with the unit and on two occasions I was hired as a paid assassin. During

these operations I worked with several forms of electronic equipment and

became familiar with it.

I am acutely aware of how to search crime scenes; recover and preserve evidence;

examine bodies; interrogate suspects; locate and interview possible witnesses;

take full and formal affadavits and all other areas of homicide investigations.

I furthermore have written and have been named the affiant on numerous search

warrants and seizure orders.

It has been my duty on occasion to travel into other states and jurisdictions

and take custody of fugitives from justice and return them to this city to be

criminally charged.

During my tenure as a law enforcement officer, I have handled numerous line-

ups, surveillances, and details for the protection of suspects, informants and co-

operative witnesses.

I have a full training background in the area of handguns, shotguns, rifle and

tear gas devices.

TRAINING

ae comeded the "Francis, a grasa, " Her che dect, Peed at the Medical

Russell Fisher.

Have also attended and completed a "Federal Bureau of Investigation" seminar

on "Homicide and Sex Mutilation", held in Washington, D.C.

Furthermore, I have conducted and attended numerous training classes and pro-

cedure lectures held by the Baltimore City Police Department.

COMMENDATIONS

Since becoming a member of the Baltimore City Police Department in January

1964, I have been awarded the following commendations and citations:

Two Commendation Ribbons

Three Bronze Star Medals of Valor

Six Letters of Commendation

One Certificate of Achievement from

the American Legion

I have recently been recommended by my superior officers for the Department's

Medal of Honor for my actions during a sniper incident and the killing of a

police officer.

NW 68261

Docld:32243321 Page 10

---

