# docid-32270990

## Page 1

JFK RECORDS

v09-16-96ccr

Cross Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10141-10186

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 13-01-04

3 TORERATED COLLECTION

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/00

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE

NOTES

SUBJECT(S) : LANZ, CARLOS DIAZ, 201 FILE; CIA, FILES;

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 2

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/01/95

COMMENTS: Box 5

Date in: 01/26/96

FIFFFFFF

FF F

FFF

FF

Released under the John F.

sennedy Assassination Records

Pole Note Case W65455

Date: 12-14-2022

NW 65435 Docld:32270990 Page 1

---

## Page 2

From VOl. II'"

Pedro Diaz Lanz

I963

Pedro Luis and MArcos Diaz Kanz- attempted to make air strike over Cuba

with

aid of Fiorini. Subject? able to keep ? informed and information passed on

¡to local security agencies in time to thwart.

Leaflet drop planned July ixnext 3I or August I. Fiorini and Diaz Lanz bros.

Palne located at Weir Williams Ranch. Were to use Io paund practice bombs

cut down and filled with nuts and bolts.

MAy 2, I963- MArcos received telegram from Pedro stating financial assistance

received from past

supporter in Washington- probably Cuban.

"K

Fiorini told Marcos he could a plane to be used on raid. una could heelp.

Additional money being raised by Diaz IAnz brothers from the sale of 65 foot

Yätcht approx. $$x708 $ I7000

Sergio Rojas Santamarina- Castro 's, Ambassador to I ndon may have sponsored

Johnson- Fiorini- Rorke leaglet trop.

October 2I, I96I

December 8 and 9 I96I

June 2I I962- Sturgis procures for Diaz LAnz weooens including 57 mm recoiless

aritles. and ammunition. foom "upstate" New York.

July I4, IIó2- Quinto, connected with Masferrer group and Sanchez Mosquera

offered Diaz LAnz 2, 5000to kill Castro. Diaz Lanz declined.

¿Sept: 30, I9T7- Cuban consulor official in Jamica mentioned Diaz LAnz as having

been involved in the Kennedy Assassination.

This is from Meemo FOR: S.A. /ADDO

Fron: Raymond A. Warren

Chief LAtin American Division

Shinct. S.T.. HORIZON I -feport.

NW 65435 Docld:32270990 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Pedro Diaz LAnz cont.d.

Enrique Montero Lezcano- MC Cuba on Sept 24 staff meeting of Commnist Party

in JAnical discussing security proplems and need to be wary of

AntiOCastro Exile

groups mentioned Diaz LAnz- It is to be noted

that the Iorenz article appeared

on Sept. 20, I977 where she stated

she drove to Dallas with Diaz Lanz, Johnny

Diaz Lanz, Marcos Diaz LAnz and Frank Sturgis to assassinate JFK..

'ird Agency documents:

FBI: 2-1566

105 - 72630

248I

1747

2774

72630, 84768, 2348

97-4194

I05-I598-Feb. 25,I963

"X 105- 72630~ April I, I963, Oct 2I, I953

In June of I963 Marcos Diaz Lanz invited Frank Sturgis to join raid on Cuba

using Moppy for June I5, raid with Carlos Garcia and Salvador Garcia Oller of

U.R.

"Nov. 3, 1963- Diaz LAnz in Speech accused Kennedy of being a communist .

A NW 65435: Docld:32270990 Page 3

---

