JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10201-10074
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-3182-225
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI :
FROM: COOK, ROBERT A.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE
DATE: 05/18/1961
PAGES: 263 ~
SUBJECTS :
GAL, BKG, INVEST, ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : . Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS : 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :
\

COMMENTS :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1A-1D, INDEX PAGES a-o

=
Assassination Recor
S|

ohn F. Kennedy
rds Collection Act of
te], CasetNW

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 1


CG 92-373

Si
INFORMANTS - : Ny i a i
y : . oe Agent To Whom
Informant Het Identity Furnished and Date
CG Til -Local Draft Board 4/14/44 as reviewed

#80, Selective

a Service System,
: 2319 S. Wentworth :

7 Ave., Chicago, y

by SA WILLIAM M, KELLY

Illinois : |
CG T-2 JAMES C, WINDHAM, 6/30/58: to Agents of the
J President, Blatz - Milwaukee .Office
. : Brewing Co, . :
i : * Milwaukee, Wisconsin
a (upon request) : i
cG T-3 CG 5733-C In 1950 to unknown Agent.
tae . : paeieeees >This informant is not.
: : personally acquainted with
‘i ALEX or his associates and |
/ obtained this information
through contact. with small_
/ time hoodlums
CG T-4 ° The Passport Agency: 4/22/58 reviewed by
: U.S. Department of SA HILMER H. KREBS
State, Washington, feet o
we ; D.C.
CG T.5- Inspectors ‘L.B. In 1946 to Unknown
MC NALLY and R,E. Agents
SMALLBERG, Alcohol
. Tax Unit, Chicago,
‘ Illinois
CG T-6 Dun and Bradstreet 5/9/58
i Chicago, Illinois : .
cG T.7, _ FRANK LA CROIX (PCI) 6/18/58 and 5/8/61

‘COVER PAGE
eee O-cEEeeE

-by SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

“and SA ROBERT A. COOK

NW 68262 Docld:32289298

Page 2



“CG 92-373

- ‘Informant

\

CG
CG

eG

cG
ca

CG

ce

T-8
T-9

T-10
T-11

T-12
T-13

T-14"

T-15

‘T-16

+ Ta17

Agent To Whom

“ Identity . Furnished and Date
CG 6343-C* ae
FRANK. VERBEST, : 6/30/58. to Agents of

Chairman of the \ the Milwaukee Office
Board, Blatz Brewing ~~ / . :

Co., Milwaukee,

Wisconsin (upon request)

E.W. PULVER, Vice 7/8/58 to Agents of the
President and Sales . Milwaukee, Office.

“Manager, Foxhead

Brewing Co,,~ Waukesha,
Wisconsin (upon request)

ERIC EDSTRAND, Manager’ 7/29/58 to, SA WILLIAM
and Distributor, Blatz F. ROEMER
Brewing Co., Chicago

. Division, 401-North -

Hamlin, Chicago, —
Illinois (upon request)

CG 6343-C*_ ae
‘SIDNEY M. KELLER, 10/28/58 to SAs
Owner - Manager, WILLIAM F, ROEMER and
Whitehall Club . PAUL _B. FRANKFURT *
* CG 6343-C* i
cG6272-¢ ‘11/20/58 through 9/1/60 .
! . : and 4/11/61 to SA ROEMER
CG 5973-C : - 3/14/58 and 4/4/60
: . to SAs ROEMER and C.
: i LEONARD TREVIRANUS
Mrs. LOUISE (LULU) .- 3/5/58 to SA ROEMER

LEVITUS, 828 West

,Cuyler Ave., Chicago,

Illinois (upon request)
COVER PAGE

-~D-

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 3



CG 92-373
Informant

CG T-26
CG T-27. 0°:
“CG T-28

CG T-29 -

‘CG T-30

CG T-31, a

cG 732

CG T-33

Identity
JOHN PHILLIP CURRAN, :

Chief Petty Officer
u.S. Navy Induction
Center, Chicago,

* Illinois

RAYMOND SCHROEDER,
Security Officer,

“Mayo Clinic,

Rochester, Minnesota
(upon. request)

Mr, ALBIN BERENS,
Security Officer,

‘Mayo Clinic, | :
Rochester, Minnesota

(upon request)

Dr, WILLIAM TERHUNE

Agent To Whom

Furnished And Date

‘In 1944 to SA WILLIAM

S. KELLY ,

6/17/59 to SA ROBERT
L. CARLSON of the

* Minneapolis Office

11/25/59 to’ SA ROBERT
L.. CARLSON of ‘the
Minneapolis Office

3/23 and:30/61 to ‘

Silver Hill Sanitarium-SA JOSEPH F..'MC ‘CORRY,
New Canaan, Connecticut New Haven Office

CG: 6450-C*

CG 6521-8.

JOSEPH. LEBOWITZ .
Midlothian Country ,
Club, Midlothian,
Illinois

Former PCI

_ DOMINICK ABATA ten

COVER PAGE -
aeees get

3/11-to. 5/8/61 to
SAs PETER B. .TARPEY,

JOHN W. PARISH and
NORMAN R. JOHNSON

1/16/58, 3/31/58,

~ and 6/5/58 to SA

ROBERT L, BAKER

5/8, 5/12, 6/7, 7/16, and

8/30/46 to SAs. WOOD
and O'CONNOR

2/1/56 to SA WALTER
E. PETERS

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 4



pee aint
CG 92.373
Informant

CG T-34 5

9

T-36
T-37

88

T-38

Ident ity”

JOSEPH, MORRIS, NA;
Deputy Superinten-
dent, Bureau of
Inspectional Services,

(upon request)

. Sergeant. CHARLES ..

FITZGERALD, North-
side Detective Bureau
Chicago Police |
Department (deemed
advisable)

Former CG 5809-C

CG 6171-C

Sergeant PATRICK:
O'CONNER, Chicago
Police Department,
Robbery Detail (deemed

" advisable)

TH39

P40 |

CG T41

PCI .ROBERT THEODORE
MARTINO

GERALD J: COVELLI
presently ‘incar-'-

cerated in Leaven- /

worth Penitentiary,
Leavenworth,. Kansas
(upon. request) /

. PETER HEIDINGER,

Intellgence Unit,
Services, Chicago
Police Department
(deemed advisable)

: COVER-PAGE

elig@ic -

Agent To Whom ©

Furnished And Date

By blind,memo to the
Chicago Office by
MORRIS dated 7/21/58

» Chicago, Police Department -

3/24/58 to SAs- -
WILLIAM A, “MEINCKE and
LENARD A, WOLF

"3/15/56 to-SA STEFANAK

3/13/58 to’ SA WOLF
3/12/58 to SA WOLF

12/6/57 to 1/19/58 .
to SAs: BRODERICK and °
SHEA i
8/7/59 to SA JAMES J.
O'CONNOR: of the Houston
Office :

a

12/3/59 ‘to-SA:ROEMER

" Bureau of Inspéctional :

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 5



CG 92-373
ete Informant-

CG T-42

T4380 °. OC,

T-44 0°,

1-45 °

T-46
1-47
T-48
‘T49

T-50° 0”

ates

Identity.

CG 6443-C

CG. 6446-C

HECTOR "TONY"

‘TONTINI, Maitre Dr,

Whitehall Club,
105 East Delaware,
Chicago, Illinois
(upon request)

_ CLARENCE HUGHES,

Security Officer, -

‘Drake Hotel, ». n
Chicago, Illinois

(upon. request)

“NY, 2427-¢

RUSSELL LANG,

- Manager, Kahler

Hotel, Rochester,

Agent To Whom

, Furnished And Date

3/2, 3/61 and 3/21/61,

by SAs SHEA - and “MEIN E

2/23/61 and: 4/19/61

to SAs COOK-and ROEMER -

10/20/58 to SA ROEMER

9/17/58 to SA ROEMER

2/20/61 to SA EDMUND
FLANAGAN, New York Office

8/5/60, 11/25/59 to.
SA ROBERT L, CARLSON .
Minneapolis Office

Minnesota (upon request) a 4

CG 6232-C

CG:6132-c°

BRUNO L,
TRAVELLETTI ,

Manager, Drake Travel -

Service, 919 North
Michigan; Chicago, ©
Illinois (upon: request)

COVER PAGE

Ea ROES Re

8/7 = 11/20/58 to” :
SAs MIENKE and JOSEPH T., |
SHEA ~

1/3/58 to SA WILLIAM
J. MC CORMICK

: Pala aad to SA ROEMER

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 6



a
©) SA
NL
: 2
7 CG 924373 i ;
Ao : : : cate Agent To Whom : ee
Informant Identity te Furnished And Date | ~
CG T-51 Former PCI RAY | 9/11/58 and 10/7/58.
: ‘ LONGTREE to SA_ROEMER. =
CG T-52-_. CHARLES THOMSETT, 5/22/59 to SA ROEMER
7 Receiving Clerk, i : oa
i 4200 North Marine ~
See Drive, Chicago, ey
Illinois: (upon request) 7
CG T-53 ANTHONY GAMBINO, * 5/22/58 to SA JOHN J.
Joliet Penitentiary. OITZINGER
: “ (upon request) 7 a)
CG T-54 (Mrs, LOUISE NEAFSEY, 5/27/59 to SA EDWARD J.
: Chicago, Illinois~ NEAFSEY :
(deemed advisable) 7
CG T-55 . Former PCI . 8/25/58 to 11/58
iff 7 ‘ . HAROLD. MC ILVENY to SA ROEMER
' CG T-56 Former PCI . ' 6/2/58 to SA ROEMER
: Gereneereeeeetee _THOMAS MC GANN Ritsseinieettcena oe A
" CG T-57 _Mrs. THELMA ‘PATCH, 5/19/58 to SAs
Former Bookkeeper, FRANKFURT and ROEMER-
‘Murray Hill Apart-
ments, 4300 North nerane
Drive, Chicago,
; Illinois (upon, poe ey :
CG T-58 - PCI LUCILLE Mc DURMAN, 2/10/59 to SA JACK s.
! : : Head Telephone : NEWELL of the Butte Office
" fistiectt . Operator, Sun Valley ae
é cae i Operations, Sun Valley,
ao : Z Idaho . ee
CG T-59 . EILEEN EDGAR, Clerk, “1/3/60, 4/8/58 and.
Illinois Beli Telephone 1/30/58 and 6/19/58
i Company, Chicago, ‘to IC JOHN E, WHALEN
Illinois (upon request) ,
CG T-60 . CSLA 4178-C  .', 10/82/59 to SE
- ae : JAMES. L. MAHN of
Ae ‘Los Angeles Office
: COVER PAGE : : :
ae : ; y= 7 ’ pee

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 7


CG 92-373
* Informant
CG T-61
CG T-62

CG T-63—

CG T-64

CG T-65
CG T-66

8

T-67

8.

“T-68
CG T-69
CG T-70 -

CG T-71

‘(upon request) =

“Agent To Whom

Identity i Furnished And Date
PCI RUDY DROZD | 4/17/61 to SA COOK

Mailcover on-mailing~> During 4/61
address of GUS ALEX,”

9353 S. Spaulding,

Evergreen Park, Illinois

THOMAS CROSTON 5/5/59 to SA ROEMER
STEWART, Southern : z :
Shores. Yacht Club,

Inner Harbor; Jackson.

Park, Chicago, Illinois

(upon request) ‘

Former PCI TURA 7/28/58 - 7/25/60

SATANA : to SAs HEDDEN and ROEMER
CG 6241-c _ | 8/7/61 to SA RALPH R. HILL
Miss’ KATE EINEDER, ‘5/19 = 6/10/58 to

845 W. Lawrence Ave,, SAs FRANKFURT and ROEMER
Chicago,‘ Illinois ~ .

Former PCI JAMES RENI 5/1/58 to SA FRANKFURT

fa iz / .
PCI SAM NUKES 2/26/58 to SA HAROLD
D, SELL :
CG 6218-C 3/19/58. to SA VINCENT
L. INSERRA :
Former PCI : 7/8/59 to SA ROEMER
FRANCIS P. LEE :
PCI. BETTY ANN AMOS 10/25/61 to SAs,

CG T-72

HILL and ROEMER

FRED' E. BUETTNER, 3/2/61 to SA-‘NEHLS
Auston Southeast x -
National Bank, :

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

COVER PAGE

oe ee vee

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 8


|

CG 92-373
Informant

CG T-73

“CG T.74
CG 9-75

CG T-76 ¢

CG T-77

CG T-78

CG T-79

CG T-80

Identity

DONALD D. MAGERS,
President,
Cosmopolitan
National Bank
Chicago, Illinois
(upon request)

PCI JACK SCHLEFKIN

Miss RUBY BRAGG,
All Tours and
Travel Agency, |
11 South La Salle,
Chicago, linois

Internal Revenue
Service

Mr. and Mrs. -
JOSEPH VINCENT,

_ 9336 South

Spaulding,
Evergreen Park,

Illinois (upon request) |

CG 6436.C
1

ADAM GRUBER,

. Comptrollers Office,

American National

Bank and Trust Company

Chicago, Illinois
(by request) é

CASIMIR V. JANIX,
Cashier, Upper
Avenue National

. Bank, -Chicago,

Illinois (upon request)

COVER PAGE

-K-

Agent To Whom
Furnished And Date

3/6/61 to SA NEHLS

- 4/10/61 to SA MARUM

6/6/58 to SA ROEMER

5/12/59 and 3/9/61

- by report

4/3/61 to SA COOK

2/21/60. to SA DONALD
W. PETERSON

2/24/61 by SA COOK,
6/16/58 by SA ROEMER

3/8/61 to SA NEHLS

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 9



oa

- JOE LOGAN when interviewed by SAs.ROBERT A. COOK
and ROEMER on March 23, 1961, advised that his true name~- -
was. JOE BAGNOLA.. He stated he was a former boxer and a
that JOE LOGAN.was his professional name while he was
boxing a -and that ‘he has continued to use this name.

> LOGAN stated that he has krown GUS ALEX since
ALEX was a teenager inasmuch'as. ALEX was born and reared
in. the vicinity of 26th and Wentworth on the near South
Side of Chicago, which is the’ same approximate, location,
of LOGAN's former home. He stated that he knows nothing
concerning ALEX's activities other than that he knows
that ALEX was formerly "GUZIK's man". He stated that
GUZIK was a former leader of the old CAPONE mob and‘ that :
he continued to be a leader in organized. crime in he
Chicago until his death in 1956. He stated that he knew
ALEX to be a close companion of GUZIK prior to GUZIK's
death in 1956. LOGAN stated he has: no knowledge whatsoever
eoncerning ALEX's status in organized crime in Chicago
at the present time. He also stated that he had no — ,
information concerning any financial interests or invest-
_ments on the part of ALEX.

ames a Musuowey |

The records of the CCC contain a memorandum dated
September 30, 1954, showing that GUS ALEX was at’ that time
a notorious South Side gambler in Chicago, and 4 partner
of ‘JAMES A. MAHONEY in gambling his alae on the South
Side of Chicago.

. DETGARD-MAIER

‘On January 26, 1961, the German ‘Federal Police
ascertained that ALEX arrived in Munich, Germany, on . Gait
January 20, 1961, and stayed at the Hotel Four Seasons. -
He was seen at the hotel with a woman who was. apparently ee
German and that she left the hotel on January 21, 1961, - aif

_" with ALEX apparently.en route to the ski area. The German Police |
¢

- 115=

|. FF fe

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 10



CG 92.373
} :

subsequently identified this woman as DITGARD MATER who

was at that time residing with her mother in Munich |

and who formerly resided in Chicago, but whose present:

address in the United States was, 721 Northeast 25th ..

Street, Miami, Flo la. Her husband was reported “by

‘the German Fédéral Police to be a soliciter employed in . . ~
; the United States. The German Police further advised
‘\\that ALEX left Munich, Germany, on. January 30, 1961,

Ry y Air France Flight and was seen off from the airport \

in Munich by a woman later determined to bé DITGARD

MAIER. . This leave taking was described as.very intimate
rA\ \by Police. "DERGAnOYiA TER. was reported by the German
4X Police to ke “marrie gue HELMS MATER, ‘who was born
Ys Munich, Germany, 0: 18 9. It was. determined
that the birth date of DITGARD MAIER is_December.3,...1938,..
-in.Austria.. It was further determined by German Police

‘that DITGARD MAIER had planned to fly back to the United

on
2.

' States on January 31,.1961, to rejoin her husband HELMUT
MAIER, in Miami, Florida.

PA pétncy oil. ; :
CG T-48 advised that he is an associate of cus
‘ALEX and that in the late fall of 1958 he had’ reason to
wish..to,.contact .ALEX,in a great. hurry. ,,He stated that
therefore he contacted PAT MARCI who imiiediately —
arranged a meeting place. and time for the
. informant.and for ALEX, The informant stated that
consistant with MARCI's arrangements ALEX and FRANK
FERRARO showed-upat the pre-arranged meeting place.at the
a pre-arranged time in order to conduct the discussion with a Z
the informant concerning gambling matters in the First f
Ward. Informant advised that.on the occasion of this
a meeting ALEX made it very clear to him that no one could
. operate a handbook or crap game in the First Ward of the
City of Chicago without the "OK" of GUS ALEX. Informant
described PAT MARCI as being a secretary of Alderman

I tsiva-a95

NW 68262 Docld:32289298 Page 11

