JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90091-10009
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 62-9-35-19
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: OC
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 03/31/1958
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS : 7
ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUM IN THE OKLAHOMA CITY
FIELD DIV
RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact a
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

NW 64578.1Docld:32330578 Page 1


0C 92-52

D.__ GAMBLING : ; . : oo
00-335-C, advised on March 18, 1958 that wg and HANK OPTO

: _FERBY_operate a gampling game in Fottawatomie County, Okldhoma with_E. lORTY"
ULSTON. FRED@t7 HAW is operating gambling at the V and V Billiar lor y
‘ / 607 Weat California » Oklakoma City and PAUL LICHLITER is operating a gambling
game at the Midnight Sun on 4th and South May Avenue, Oklahoma City, all ona i
small scale. . J

‘ 0. K, BIVINS, WA, State Bureau of Investigation, advised on March ak,
1958 that E, ©. “SHORTY” COULSTON, Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma gambler closed |
his gambling club 4 miles west of McCloud, Oklahoma early Saturday morning,

March 22, 1958, turned on the ignition of his car and was blasted out of his t
station wagon 4s a result of an explosion and is now confined in Wesley’ Hospital;
Oklahoma City: BIVINS stated COULSTON has refused to furnish any information
concerning the bombing. : ~

WAYNE W. HARBOLT, Chief, of Detectives, Oklahoma City Police Department ;

advised om March 22, 1 hat he-amiérstood from an unidentified source in iN
Dallas, Texas that GEORGE » former operator of the old Saddle Club, near’:

El Rewg,¢ Oklahoma had in’ the first part of the year, 1958, contacted RUSSELL at a

DOUGIASNASTEEWS and CHARLES VERNON/CULBETH of Dalles, Texas in an effort to get
Bet up'a dexl~to "bump off" a gam¥ier in Oklahomt City. He stated this :
information is being considered by investigating officers. in connection with the
injury sustained by COULS'TON.

: On March 12, 1958, -Sheriff GLENN BROWN, Tulsa, Oklahoma advised there i
is no organized gambling operating in Tulsa County to nis knowledge. :

On March 11, 1958, PCY GINA DE MARCO advised she has not heard of:
any organized gambling in the City of Tulsa. :

Sheriff BROWN stated that gambling on a small seale is being. operated: ~
at the American Billiard Parlor, fe East 3rd Street, Boulder Billiard Parlor,
307s South Boulder and at the Trenton Street Market » Tulsa. .

On January 13, 1958, an article in the Tulsa Tribune reflected that. {
four persons had been arrested on January 10, 1958 at 1027 Fast Young Street, og
Tulsa, and charged with gambling. It is to be noted this is a Negro neighborhood..’

According to PCI EDMOND ROBBINS .and PCI JOE ROUSEK, gambling in u
Muskogee, Oklahoma apparently appears to be wide open at this time. Both advised .
that GLENN HOOG, who operates the Standard Club » 100 Block West Okmulgee, t
Muskogee, Okiakoma recently opened up gambling in his place which is a # {
pool hall and that 21, poker and craps are Played there. Both advised that BOL,

| TLKEY who has @ place on South Main, Muskogee, operates a poker game and crapé,.

-27- ey

NW 64578 Docld:32330578 Page 2
