lan

J
mae
a 3

Date : 11/05/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10012-10006
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W - PAGES 12-15

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : BRITISH DEFECTORS IN BAUTZEN (ROZ)
DATE : 12/09/57
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

aK

MCLANE, W. wae
Per

HEMMINGS, J. woe

ape

DOWNIE, J. +t

he

SHARPE, D. +e

ape

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT #RE
CLASSIFICATION : CONFEBENEIAL- *AK
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2 aye
CURRENT STATUS : +e
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95 +L
OPENING CRITERIA : a]
COMMENTS : THE REVIEW BOARD VOTED THAT THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT *E*

BELIEVED RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT*A*

KENNEDY. #Re

*pe

ae

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Caset:Nw

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 64954 Docld:34517464 Page 1


Annexure I to
BRIP/0/11/354
dated 9 Dec 57+

BRITISH DEFECTORS IN BAUTZEN. (ROZ).

| 1. 23247530 Pte MoLANE, W., 1. BW (RHR), AWOL wef 15 Apr 57.

The a/n finished school on 15 Nov 57 and immediately went on
holiday, with Doris MULLER (to whom he is now married) to HARTENSTEIN
i. ERZGEBIRGE. The trip was arranged under the auspices of the
FDGB and McLANE obtained a concessional fare rate. They stayed with
an aunt of Doris MULLER (a sister of her mother) who lives in or near
HARTENSTEIN.  McLANE wanted to start work in HARTENSTEIN, but
| permission was refused. McLANE and MULLER returned to BAUTZEN on
24 Nov 57 and McLANE started work in the BAUTZEN Schlaohthof on 25
Nov 57, where he is still employed. No estimate.of his income could
be obtained. Doris MULLER is nbt at present working. McLANE is
still living at Grosse Brudergasse. , McLANE and MULLER appear to be
living quite happily together and MULLER has not been involved in any
immoral escapades with other men for some time, McLANE is a quiet
sort of person, who does not drink very much and cause trouble and is
quite well thought of by the DDR authorities. He is not politidally
active, although a member of the FDJ and FDGB. He is not thought to
be a member of the GDSF. He has never attempted to return to the
WEST. It is possible that he might return, but appears to be afraid
_-of- pun: y ISH ‘military authorities-if he dads so.. He

has spread the story around BAUTZEN that he is wanted in BERLIN for
selling WD petrol on the black market, It is believed that McLANE
reseives letters from UK and has been urged to return to the WEST and
face the consequences of his actions by his parents. - Doris MULLER
is not-pregnant, as was previously reported. McLANE has now started
wearing spectacles, but for reading only,  McLANE was at one time

- friendly with HEMMINGS, but now seems to: have transferred his friend-
ship back to DOWNIE and McLANE assisted DOWNIE to move into the latter's
new flat in BAUPZEN. It wis not known if Doris MULLER had been
employed by the MfS in any capacity whilst she was in BERLIN, but
thought quite likely. that she was being uded as 2 casual informant by
the MES in BAUTZEN, No further information’ available.

2. 22637204 Pte HEMMINGS, J., 1 BW (RHR), AWOL wef 14 Aug 57.

The a/n is atill attending school and is living in the Club-
house. He has made at least one attempt to return to WEST BERLIN,
but was unsuccessful. He wants to return and often says so and it
4s believed that he will make e further attempt to escape. The
reasons for HEMMINGS! defection were not-kmown. It was thought
Bick bn conatwnd Tet na.At maa belicued, shat tee ne
WES? BERLIN. _ He ig not politically minded. He is popular with
the other renegades in BAUTZEN, if not with the authorities. He
is known 'to drink quite heavily, He has no permanont girl-friend, |

but has had a fow purely transitory sexual relationships with various
women in BAUTZEN. Wo further information available.

\ seeee/to sheet 7 (gnve: i,
1 on ee 3.

NW 64954 Docld:34517464 Page 2


Annexure I to
BRIP/0/11/354 . |

dated ©) Dec 5 }

3. 22772119 Pte DOWNIE, J., 1 BW (RHR), AWOL wef 20 Oct 56.

On about 1 Dec 47, subject moved from his flat in BAUTZEN,
Sch#fferstrasse, 7, to Ziegelstrasse, 7. The incident when DOWNIE
brought a girl-friend with hin upon his return from a holiday on the
BALTIC coast at KWHLUNGSBORN is now history. The girl, Anni snu,
| was. soon discarded and she is at present still living in BAUTZEN,
address unknom. DOWNIE and Margot GOTTSCHALK are always at
loggerheads, which is often caused by GOPISCHALK's sexual habits.
They often fight and GOTTSCHALK hits DOWNIE with household articles
and she, in turn, is usually beaten-up' by DOWNIE. ‘These fights
it often take place in the presence of other defectors. Although they
are always fighting amongst themselves, no permanent separation ever
takes place and they stick together against outsiders. They are NOT
' | yot married.. Margot GOTTSCHALK's mother (Frau Martha LEHMANN) has
. ‘written to her daughter to the effect that the family now disown their
daughter and that she (the mother) does not wish to see her daughter
again. Frau LEHMANN has also written to other members of the renegade
colony in BAUTZEN to the same effect with the request that these
| persons inform the daughter and DOWNIE what the mother has written.
During the evening: of 22 Nov 57, Mrs MURPHY (wife of the US defector
RA 14479240 Clifford MURPHY, AWOL wef 14 Nov 53) and Mrs MURPHY's
mother left BAUTZEN for a visit to BERLIN.. They returned to BAUTZEN
on the early morning of 25 Nov 57. Whilst in WEST BERLIN they
| visited GODPTSCHALK's mother in BERLIN-SPANDAU and told her about the
life DOWNIE and GOTTSCHALK arc leading. Thoy were given messages
of abuse to pass on to DOWNIE/COTTSCHALK upon their return to BAUTZEN,
It was believed that anonymous letters have been sent to Frau LEHMANN
| about the behaviour of DOWNIE/GOTTSCHALK and it was suspected in
BAUTZEN that these letters had been written by Doris MULLER (wife of
| McLANE) as GOPTSCHALK and MULLER were, at one time, not on speaking <
| terms -with one another. The returned BRITISH dofeotor POWELL wrote
to DOWNIE on one or two occasions after his return to the WEST and
suggested that DOWNIE too might try to return. DOWNIE showed these
letters to SCHATTEL (Club-leader).. DOWNIE is at present 2nd ‘secretary
of the FDJ, although reputed not to be very politically minded.
: He is quite friondly with Wolfgang NOACK (teacher and interpreter at lv)
| the club-house) and it‘was not thought’ likely that DOWIE will return
| to the WEST at the moment, however, DOWNIE’s actions were described
as being completely unpredictable, No further information available.

4. 14477185 Cpl SHARPE, D., 1 QUEENS BAYS, AWOL wef 25 Mar 51.

The a/n is reported to be, at last, in the process of
obtaining a divorce from his wife. He is not the father of the two

7 children: the girl is the daughter ofhis.wifats ‘sister and the boy,

is believed to be an adopted child. At present SHARPE is living in )

the club-house. He is employed as a moulder at the VEB-RMAGS

GIESSEREI, BAUTZEN, Wilthenerstrasse. Since the trouble with the
y canteen funds etc he has not frequented the club very much end has

taken 2 less active role in polotical life in BAUTZEN, although ho
has now rejoined the FDJ, but is not an office-holder, He was in
hospital sone time ago (no exact dates available) and was operated
‘on for a rupture, which had been caused by overstarin at work in the
Giesserei.. He is now more popular with the other defectors,
probably ‘due to him being less active politically. No further
information available.

12° a './t0 sheet 8 (annexure I, para 5).

Nwy'64954—Docld:34517464~-Page 3 —_— a a


SIN

Annexure I to

BRIP/0/12/354
dated 9g Dec 57

5. 4123694 Cpl SCANLON, J., 1 WORCS, AWOL wef Feb 60.

The a/n lives in SOHLAND and docs not visit the club in
BAUTZEN. In 1955/56 he was operated on for rupture. No
further information available.

6. 23052309 Pte ATKINSON, S., 1 £ SURREY, AWOL wef 5 Jun 56.

The a/n is married to a nursing sister and they have one
child, a girl. At one time ATKINSON often went with other women,
but since the birth of his daughter appears to have’ settled dow,
He no longer works at’ the Rat des Kreises, but is now employed in . .
the police station in BAUTZEN. The nature of his duties was not
know. It was believed thet ATKINSON wants to go to live and
work in DRESDEN, but that - to date ~ permission to do so has not
been granted ty the DDR authorities. He is at present living in
Heringstrasse, number wnknoyn. He is not politically active, but
is very keen on sporting activities, especially handball. No
further information available.

T+ 23227917 Pte FOWLES, F.K., 1 BORDER, AWOL wef 22 Mar 57.

The a/n is at present serving a sentence of 9 months
imprisonment in BAUTZEN prison. The sentence is for two larceny
offences. The first offence was the theft of ration cards for
which he was initially placed on 4. moriths probation and thd
second offence was attempted theft froma Gasthaus in BAUTZEN.

‘As soon as FOWLES was apprehended regarding the second offence
he was tried and sentenced and the four months probation for. the
first offence was added to the sentence. When not in prison,
FOWLES is a, heavy drinker who leads a promiscuous sex life,
although he has no firm woman friend. He often attended the
EGA dances in BAUTZEN. It was believed that his prison sentence
commenced at the beginning of Sep 57. It was thought that he
may attempt to return to the WEST upon the completion of his
prison term, No further information available.

8, 22432376 Cin WHEATLEY, C.R., 6 Inf Wksp REME.
AWOL wef 22 Aug 57.

It was confirmed that the a/n crossed into the ROZ with a
GERMAN married couple aid arrived in BAUTZEN via MAGDEBURG. The
GERMAN couple left shortly after WHEATLEY's arrival in BAUTZEN,
their destination was not knom end no further informasiun aod
be obtained about thic couple, WHEATLEY is still attending
gchool, but lives in the town, address unknown. He is quite o
neavy Grinker wLtMOUg ot was: nub trewnetediest te ATE

so |
DOTY

in trouble with the local authorities. He takes little interest
in the political activity in BAUTZEN, It was not known if he
wishes to return to the WEST and, as far as was known, has not
yet made any attempt to do so. The other members of the defector
colony in BAUTZEN have quite a good opinion of him, He is very
keen on football. No further information available.

ssse./to sheet 9 (Annexure I, para 9).

Na te

| |NW 64954 Docld:34517464 Page 4 = = oe --———-


Annexure I to \
BRIP/0/11/354 t

.
| . dated € Dec 57. Q
| ; .

9s 21041912 Pte THOMAS, R., 1 MANCHESTER, AWOL wef 2 Mar 51.

\ The a/n is at present working in DRESDEN, ‘but lives in BAUTZE
’ He is married with two. children and his wife is expecting the third

He is not now very active politically. His wife is employed in -
the post office in BAUTZEN and she told source that THOMAS had
discussed returning to the WEST. The wife professed that she woul?
prefer him to return and then she would join him later. THOMAS is }
quite popular with the; other defectors in BAUTZEN, No further
information available.

10, Source claimed to. have no knowledge of any officer defectors
to the communist bloc. Source also claimed that she had never seen
(she was show photographs) or heard of the following defectors:
14475769 Pte TYRELL, R.-(1 QUEENS, AWOL wef 22 Nov 48); 22775116
Pte MUIRHEAD, J.0. (1 BW (RHR), AWOL wef 21 Jul 56); 14477389 Cpl
» HURN, L. (1.BW (RHR), AWOL wef 28 Jul 56). She could provide no
“new information concerning the BRITISH civilian Peter DARLEY,

ll. Source claimed to be unable to give any further information
concerning BRITISH defectors in BAUTZEN or the ROZ.

NW 64954 Docld:34517464 Page 5
