Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

01/14/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10004-10395

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGES 56-57

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

USA
[ RESTRICTED ]

{ RESTRICTED ]
11/20/68
rrere MANUEL ~

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKER)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED

3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95



(AR 381-1
1. NAME OF SUBJECT O8 THLE OF INCIDENT 2 DATE SUBMITTED
MARTI, Manuel NM 20 November 1968
PVT E-1. US 52 737 780 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
?
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

REPORT OF FINDINGS

(DEVELOPED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 13 November 1968, Nick
Traficenti, Tabulating Machine Operator, Mutual Insurance Advisory
Association (MIAA), 733 Third Avenue, New,York, New York 10017, who resides
at 565 East 181st Street, Bronx, New York 10457, was interviewed at his place
of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known SUBJECT since
March 1967 stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in March 1967 when he was employed by
MIAA and was assigned to the same section as SUBJECT in the Data Control
Section. Source was introduced to the personnel within the section and
coached in his duties by SUBJECT, and as a result he became quite friendly
with MARTI. Source had daily contact with SUBJECT at work, but they never
had occasion to associate outside of their working environment. Source last
saw SUBJECT in May 1968 when HE left MIAA to enter active military service.

5 Although SUBJECT is of Puerto Rican decent, Source was not aware
of HIS birthplace. HE was single and lived with HIS father, Manuel Marti,
in Bronx, New York, further details unknown. HIS mother, name unknown, had
died of cancer shortly before HE and Source met. SUBJECT was a graduate of
Evander Charles High School, Bronx, New York, and Source believed that HE
was attending college at night during HIS employment at MIAA. SUBJECT has
a younger sister and an elder brother, names unknown. HIS brother was in the
United States military service during SUBJECT'S employment at MIAA, and since
| SUBJECT was reportedly the main support of HIS family HE was given a/deferme
from military service until HIS brother was released. Source had no further
knowledge of SUBJECT'S personal background.

MARTI is a highly intelligent, conscientious and dependable
individual. HE was assigned as a Tabulating Machine Operator at MIAA and
seemed to have a keen interest in HIS work and was always seeking ways to
improve HIMSELF on the job. Source believed that MIAA was HIS first employ-
ment. SUBJECT was very highly regarded by all of HIS associates at MIAA,
and HE was greatly missed on the job.. HE is friendly, honest, trustworthy,
mature, emotionally stable and of good moral character. SUBJECT was not
known to have any difficulty with creditors or law enforcement agencies,
and HE demonstrated no habits of an anti-social nature during the period
of association. Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S organizational affilia-
tions or foreign travels. SUBJECT never engaged in political discussions,
and HE never made any radical statements concerning the United States govern-
ment. Source considers MARTI to be a loyal United States citizen who is
dedicated to the preservation of our democratic form of government. He knew
of no one other than co-workers who are knowledgeable of SUBJECT.

v

DA ‘341 ©

NW 64954 Docld:34529211 Page 2


(AR 381-1303 FM 30-17)
2. DATE SUBMITTED

20 November 1968
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

|. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

“4. REPORT OF FINDINGS,

Traficenti recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for
a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

‘5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

FORM
1 APR 52 REPLACES WED aaa Shure es

NW 64954 Docld:34529211 Page 3
