# docid-32560471

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

ssassination hecords Collection act c

992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NV

68252 Date: 09-27-2022

PH 92-444

#3.

Will make concentrated effort to ascertain the

residence of ANGELO BRUNO when staying in Miami, Fla.

*4o Will endeavor through displaying subject's

photograph at the Miami Airport, to learn if subject is know

as a frequent traveler between Miami and Havana, Cuba. II this

investigation proves successiul, will endeavor to arrange

cooperation of the interested airlines so that the Miami Division

can be apprised of the subject's movements.

#5. Will ascertain if BRUNO's business partner in

Miami, IRVING CAREY, is now in possession of his 1958 Cadillac,

1958 Florida registration IWW 3536, noting that this automoble

has not been recently observed in the Philadelphia Divisions

6.

Will interview BEN GALLUP, 2820 Northwest 7th Avenue,

kanes that this 15 BRNOrs main contact in Miami, Fla.

telephone Jefferson 4-2317, noting that PH. 269-0

Will recontact MM 655-0 who you will note advised

SA ROBERT F. FETNER on 12/24/58 that he had dined with ANGELO

BRUNO at the Luau Restaurant, North Bay Village, Fla., on 11/19/58.

will attempt to learn from this informant the nature of BRUNOrs

activities in Miami, BRUNO's residence in Miami, BRUNO's contemplated

movements so far as

his alleged gambling interest in Havana, Cuba,

is concerned;

principally ascertain if BRuvO intends to return to

Philadelphia due to recent events in Havana.

Will consider interview of (FNU) BRUNO, a councilman

in North Miami Beach, who is supposedly, according to MM 655-0, a

relative of ANGELO BRUNO, for information regarding BRUNO's activities

in Miami.

AT TAMPA, FLA.

It does not now appear pertinent to ascertain the relationship

between the owner of Florida registration 3WN 976 and VICTOR CALAMARO,

criminal associate. of BRUNO, as the Philadelphia Division contemplates

interviewing CALAMARO in the near future.

NEWARK

AT ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.

Will maintain contact with former NK Confidential Informant

-A -

COVER PAGE

18903-10903

NW 68262 Docld:32560471 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

JOSEPH MICHAEL CLETHERO and other Sources of Information who have

reported that CARL "PAPPY" IPPOLITO and others were involved in a

gambling casino in Havana, Cuba, with ANGELO BRUNO.

AT CAMDEN, N.J:

* Will ascertain the identity of subscribers to

Laurel Springs, N.J., telephone number 4-2971-W and Dudley 6-4624

and if pertinent ascertain through established sources the connection

between these subscribers and VICTOR CALAMARO, ANGELO BRUNOS

criminal associate;: or the subject.

PHILADELPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA:

*1.

Will continue effort to get handwriting specimens

of ANGELO BRUNO.

2. Will obtain results,

if any, of toll calls made

from BRUNO's Philadelphia residence.

3. Will report information received from contacts of

confid ential informants

relating to ANGELO BRUNO's activities.

4. Will maintain contact with Philadelphia Detective

MICHAEL KROTKIN in an endeavor to learn of BRUNO's movements in and

out of Philadelphia.

Wilt consider interview of VICTOR CALAMARO and other

criminal associatcovot ANGELO BRUNO, for explict details of subject's activities.

Administrative Data

One copy of instant report is being furnished for the

Legal Attache in Havana, Cuba as current investigation is being

conducted in regard to BRUNO's activities there.

The extended period in this investigation was to avoid

submitting a status report to the Bureau. The Bureau however has

been kept advised of the pertinent developments in the investigation

Of ANGELO BRUNO.

- B-

COVER PAGE

983-11503

NW 68262 Docld:32560471 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-444

T-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

I-5

I-6

T=7

T-8

T-9

Informants

THERESA DOUGHERTY, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania,

- 11/12/58, to SE E. DAVIS PORTER.

Philadelphia Police Officer LEONARD RUTIGLIANO, 12/29/58

to SA JOSEPH A. VERICA (name protected at his request)

Newark 1741-CS (undisclosed date).

NK PCI PAUL "SKINNY" D'AMATO on 9/16/58 to SA CHARLES B.

FLACK, Jr.

Former NK CI JOSEPH MICHAEL CLETHERO, to unidentified

Agent on 10/29/58.

PH 269-C to SA DALE M. HIESTAND, 11/6/58.

MM 655-C to SA ROBERT F. FETZNER,

32/24/58.

PH 517-C, to SA J. ROBERT PEARCE, OR 12/10/58.

PH 514-6 to SA J. ROBERT PEARCE, on 11/25/58.

PH 251-0

PH 269-C

PH 517-C

PH 518-6

Criminal Informant Coverage

South Philadelphia racket figure widely acquainted with

racket element. Has identified BRUNOs associates and

illegal activities.

Closely associated with subject. Has joumneyed to Miami,

Place. with BRUNO.

A numbers writer. Friendly with PHILIP TESTA, BRUNOrS

lieutenant.

Alocal prostitute, formerly married to racket figure.

Knows BRUNO and many of his associates.

-C -

COVER PAGE

903-10503

NW 68262 Docld:32560471 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-444

PH 489-6

Numbers writer. Bootlegger. Familiar with BRUNO's

activities.

PCI MORRIS KOVLER

PCI ROSE ROSETTI

Old-time bootlegger.

Gambler.

Widely

acquainted. Knows subject.

teen a quested Son da philad racket

Resides near BRUNOrs Philadelphia

residence. Long-time association with BRUNO

PCI ELIZABEIH ROSETTI

Girl friend of local numbers banker. Widely

acquainted local racket element.

Resides

close to and knows ANGELO BRUNO.

- D

COVER PAGE

593-10583

NW 68262 Docld:32560471 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-444

ATF

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

7/14/96 DAb/CB/eR

* RELEASE IN FULL

riBLEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

During November 1958 Philadelphia Confidential Informant

T-6 stated that he had no personal knowledge as to the whereabouts

of BRUNO but was positive BRUNO was in Florida or Havana, Cuba.

r-6 related that MARIO MAGGIO, son of MICHAEL MAGG10 (Philadelphi

Top Hoodlum) as well as ANGELO BRUNO, told him theording to 1-b

piece" of the Motel Nicionale, Havana,

MARIO MAGGIO knows the whereabouts of ANGELO BRUNO at all times.

said however, that BRUNO's main contact at Miami, Fla., is

BEN GALLUP who controls the pinball machine business for the

Italian group in that city.

GALLUP's address is 2820 Northwest

7ch Avenue, Miami, Fla., telephone number Jefferson 42317,

according to 1-0.

said that he knows that BRUNO frequents

this address when in Florida.

He said this address is a business

establishment where BEN GALLUP as well as an individual MIKE (INU)

operate. MIKE supposedly controls the juke box business for the

Italian group.

T-6 stated that he knows that BEN GALLUP at least on

one occasion, met ANGELO BRUNO at the Miami Airport when BRUNO

was arriving

; in Miami.

He noted that BRUNO usually traveled

between Philadelphia and Miami by airlines.

On December 31, 1958, the Miami Division advised that

Philadelphia Confidential

Informant T-7. had during December 1958,

related that ANGELO BRUNO dined at the Luau Restaurant, North Bay

BRUNO, according to T-?,

EDWARD BRALYNSKI, aka. Harry Brown. IPPOLITO and BROWN are

Trenton, N.J., gamblers and supposedly control the nickelodeons

in Cuba. T-7 advised (INU) BRUNO, a councilman in North Mani

Beach, Fla., as a relative; and JOE MILLSTEIN, a night club owner

and shylock, as a friend, of ANGELO BRUNO.

On December 12, 1958, CARL CIPRIANI, Alcohol and

Lobacco fax Agent, Philadelphia, advised SA PEARCE as follows:

rrom March 1955 to April 1956, he operated in an undercover

capacity becoming widely acquainted with or receiving information

about, members of the racket element, primarily Italian, in the

South Philadelphia area. CIPRIANI identified, based on his

experience, MARCO REGINELLI, as the former leader of the Greaser

Gang in Philadelphia before

his death. He said after REGINELEI'S

death, the New Jersey element of the gang wanted one of their

8

903-11503

NW 68262 Docld:32560471 Page 5

---

