# docid-32243298

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F.

Lennedy Assassination

Tecords Lollection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:Nw 68261 Date:

09-01-2022

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10068-10332

RECORD SERIES

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and, that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NWV 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10332

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 06/27/77

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DAY, CLARENCE J.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DAY, Clarence

Nama of Employce

Address

Agurass

Phone Number

Position Tisio

Level

Step

DAY OF MONTH.

379 10 11/3 73 84 15 16 77 18 19 20

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1977

YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

6-27-77

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1,0

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

1,5

2.0

IP.CRUEI

THIS

CONTI

AVAILAOLE

THIS MONTH

21

2?

23 | 281251

| 20 | 27

2$

29

30 | 31

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

Annual

Leave

Sick

Lezye

apostion Number

licath

jon.

rob.

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

= 0.5 day annual leavo

=1.0 day annual leavo

= 0.5 day sick leave

Or

= 1.0 doy sick leavo

A.

U

or

0.5 day administrative leavo

= 1.0 day administralive lavo

= 0.5 day unauthorized absenco

= 1.0 day unauthorized absenco

= 0.5 day icave without pay

=1.0 day leave wilhout pay

NW 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 3

AIMS S:0

MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

X

XXX

/

8

4

8

DALANCE BROUGHT

FORVIARD

PRO!

PRECEDING YEAH

Annual

Leaic

SICK

Ltlyd

6

6

BALANCS

AT

Of

CLOSE

MONTH

11

48

9

10

11

12

13

INPLOYCE

INITIALS

Araual

Lesve

7

Sick.

Leave

7

б

Her man at

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

DutC

(if employee reluses do sign, state reason below.

Chiel's Signatura

Date

Approved: -

Clerk of the House

Dalo

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employce's official personnel folder.

EXHIBITI

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen).

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Clarence J. Day

Employee Social Security Number

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

Effective Date

7/15/78

Type of Action

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. * Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-M. Res256

095ch

_Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

If applicable, Level

Step--

I certify that. this authorization is not in violation of: 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

July 7

Date_

78

19

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits.

Payroll --

00 as of

Copy for. Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Clarence i. Day

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Employee Social Security Number

Effective Date

6/27/77

Type of Action

JFK Act 5 (9) 12) 1D

Employing Office or Committee

Dj Appointment

• Salary Adjustment.

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary. Adjustment; complete the following information.).

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$24,000

Staff Investigator

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. L Standing Committee: Staff-_ Clerical or _ Professional.

2. (X] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res:.

465

Congress.

3: I Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.):

Position Number__

_If applicable, Level -

Step-

I certify that this authorization is not. in violation. of 5 U.S:C. :3110(b), prohibiting. the employment of .

relatives.

Date--

June 28

. 197

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments. and salary adjustments for. employees.under. the_House:Classification Act.and:for.Committee em-

ployees; except those.of the.Committee.on Appropriations; the: Committee.on the Budget, and the.Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration..

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration...

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity S_

.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DẠY

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law.

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[J I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

6-59-77

Date

NW 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Select Committee on Assassinations

d.5. House of Representatives

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Jom

I checked wit

Janenbaum on Clarence

Jay

and recommend

*24.000 salary

Tom H.

NWV 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DAY

4/27/27

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

DATE :

Louis Stokes, Chairman

Tom kambeth, soáng Diretor

June 14, 1977

jur

I recommend approval of Bob Tanenbaum's

request that Clarence Day be hired for his task force.

The hiring of day will bring the number of investigators

on the JFK task force to four (4).

Affective 1/27/17

N 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 8

---

## Page 9

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

WALARES. N PERTER, DC.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBF

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

X.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

TOM LAMBETH

KENNETH D. KLEIN

JUNE 14, 1977

CLARENCE DAY - INVESTIGATOR

It is my recommendation that

Clarence Day be hired as an investigator

for the JFK Task Force. His resume is very

impressive and his long career as a law en-

forcement officer certainly qualifies him

to be an investigator for this Committee.

Equally important were his re-

actions to the questions I posed to him.

He

came across as an intelligent man who is well

versed in the law as it applies to the rights

of individuals, and he impressed me as a man

who would be a valuable member of our task

force.

APPROVED:

Piles amend

Robert K. Tanenbaum

NV 68261

Docld:32243298 Page 9

---

