# docid-32244108

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10166

RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Heleased under the John F!

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#: Nw 68261 Date:

09-01-2022

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10070-10166

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

го:

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/71

PAGES :

6

SUBJECTS:

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION

TRIPLETT, WILLIAM K.

CLASSIFICATION

ASIATION PRINTED FORM

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 3.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TRIPLETT, Bill

Nime of Employce

Address

AsUrass

Phone Number

Position Tisia

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL. LEAVE RECORD

1978

YENN

DATE OF APPOINTMSENT

7-17-77

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

Level

Slep

•••Years

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

1.5

2.0

ACCRUED

THIS MONTH

AVAILADLE

THIS MONTH

DAY OF MONTH

500800 00113 T T GTTT TT 20 21 22 33 21 25 26 27 23 20 30 31

Аллизі.

Leave

Sick

Leave

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leaye

Position Number

Menth

Jon.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

Aug.

Scot.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

or

or

U or

%

= 0.5 day annual leavo

= 1,0 day annuai leavo

= 0.5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick leava

=

0.5 day administrative leavo

= 1.0 day administralive leavo

= 0.5 doy unauthorized absenco

= 1.0 day unauthorized absenco

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leaye without pay

NW 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 3

USED

THIS

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

DALANCE

BROUGHT

FORVIARO

PRECEDING YEAK

Annual

sick

5

5

BALANCE

CLOSE

OF MONTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

9

9

/.

12

3320 12/3

INITIALS

Dissussanted

XI

12

1/i6/18

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employeo's Signatura

nute

Ill employee reluses do sign, state reason bclow."

Chial's Signaturo

Date

Approved:

Clerk of the House

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's oflicial personnel rolder..

EditBate

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last)

Effective Date

William Ko Triplett

Employee Social Security Number

7/15/78

Type of Action

JFK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

Title Change

El Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_.

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or • Professional.

2. I Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res..

95th

-_Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

• (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level.

Step-

I certify that this authorization is not

in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b); prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date.

., 19_78.

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title- If Member, District and Stare)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of. the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee. on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administratión

Office of Finance.use only:

Office Code..

Monthly Annuity S

ID

Benefits

Payroll_

00 as of _

Copy for Initiating Office: or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Linda Shay

316-3702

the to thin

amitif

R 20143786

102

NW 68261

Docld:32244108

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees,.

Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress.

This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother,

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Hellam

well

Signature of

Employee

JUL4 18,1977

Date

NWV 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 6

---

## Page 7

JFK

GONZALES

TRIPLETT

MEMORANDUM

TO: Chairman Stokes

FROM: Tom Lambeth

DATE: June 17, 1977

el

broom

wit,

toy,

To thir

The attached three recommendations for the employment of investigators

represent Tanenbaum's effort to get his task force moving strongly.

If these three are hired there will remain twelve vacancies for

investigators on the Kennedy task force.

NWV 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 7

---

## Page 8

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

HI.D. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM

TO: TOM LAMBETH

FROM: KENNETH D. KLEIN

DATE: JUNE 16, 1977

RE:

BILL TRIPLETT

It is my recommendation that Bill Triplett

be hired as a staff counsel. I interviewed

him approximately 5 months ago and he is far

superior to almost all of the applicants I have

interviewed. His legal background is excellent

for our purposes.

He has experience as a pro-

secutor, a defense lawyer and as an investigator.

He impressed me as being intelligent, well spoken

and

as having an easy going manner.

He desires to leave his present position with LEAA

due to the lack of challenge. I am certain that

this Committee would be gaining a productive member

by hiring Mr. Triplett.

Recomme

Slatudas

$ 030,000

APPROVED:

ROBERT

NWV 68261

Docld:32244108 Page 8

---

