# docid-32331778

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90099-10123

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 100-42303-524

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

DN

HQ

DATE: 04/10/1959

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY COLOSACCO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Hecords Lollection Act o

992 144 USC 2107 Motel Case#:Nu

58262 Date: 09.22-2022

V9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32331778 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

DN. 92-128

T-3:

T-4:

T-5:

I-6:

T-7:

I-8:

T-9:

City and County of Denver, who was then head of the

Colorado Crime Commission.

This material was used

by MELVILLE in connection

with hearings before a

City and County of Denver Grand Jury investigating

hoodlum activities, and for that reason source of

same cannot be disclosed.

DN 110-C who was contacted by SA FRED G. MCGEARY

and SA PAUL E. BUSH.

PCI JOHN CHA, Trinidad, Colorado, contacted by

SA E. WILLIAM TRAINOR.

PCI FRANK NEHRIM, Denver,

Colorado, contacted by

SA'S WILLIAM P. SPRINGSTON and PAUL E. BUSH.

Former PCI JACK WILLIAMS, Denver, Colorado,

contacted by SA BRENDAN P. WALSH.

PCI FLOYD MARKS, Denver, Colorado, contacted by...

SA PAUL E. BUSH.

MYRON DONALD, Director, Colorado State Liquor

Department, who furnished the information to

SA PAUL E. BUSH with the understanding thai his

identity would not be disclosed.

PCI NORMA SPENCER, Pueblo, Colorado, contacted

by SA ALVIN D. HEWITT.

Cover Page

NW 68262 Docld:32331778 Page 2

---

