# docid-32332862

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10160

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1958

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

>

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22.2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332862 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

OFFICE • MEMORANDUM

UNITED STATES GOV!

IMENT

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940).

DATE:

9/4/58

FROM:

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226)

RE:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, WaS.

00:

Pittsburgh

Enclosed

dated 9/4/58.

the report of SA robert A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh,

REFERENCES

New York letter to Pittsburgh, 6/30/58.

Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 7/9/58.

Philadelphia letter to Bureau, 7/24/58.

Buffalo letter to Pittsburgh, 7/29/58.

ADMINISTRATIVE

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF THE SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH

DATENT TO KILL AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON

HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are being utilized by the Pittsburgh

Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA investigation:

MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, an accountant for LA ROCCA, MIKE GENOVESE

and the MANNARINO brothers, all Pittsburgh top hoodlums, for

many years in the past, who presently has an apartment in the

Kennilworth Apartments, 5700 Centre Avenue, Pittsburgn. This

individual makes his permanent home at Baltimore, Marylana,

• Bureau (Enc1. 2)

1 - Baltimore (92-149) (Info) (EncI. I,

• Buffalo (92-87) (Encl. 2)

- Jacksonville (Info) (Encl. 1)

- Miami (92-163) (Encl. 2)

- New York (92-825)

- Philadelphia (92-497) (Encl. 2)

ans art 2992-2942-38

- Pittsburgh

aS 100 ₴

REFP 15 105

VENCIOSURE

TEE. 29

NW 68262 Docld:32332862 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

of this vicinity and he is being utilized because of his knowledge

of the bushess dealings and close intimate relationship with

IA ROCCA and his wife.

Miss FRANCES PRIAM, a potential criminal informant, who is well

acquainted with many of Pittsburgh top hoodlums and who was

formerly employed as a waitress in the Red Eagle Club, formerly

known as the Genovese Cocktail Lounge, 412 Larimer Avenue,

Pittsburgh.

and comes

BEATE

She still visits this establishment regularly

in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE and other

members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element. PRIAM, a well

established prostitute, presently travels with Mrs. JULIA

MANILS WIDOW OI JAKE MINTY, TOrmEr CO-OWnEr Of EZZARD CHARLES, TOrmer

world's heavy weight boxing champion.

She is presently being

utilized for the coverage of the ROCCA - GENOVESE- NELSON

interests.

PG 573-0, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, aiKe GENOVESE's younger brother,

and who is presently being utilized for the general coverage of

the Red Eagle Caub and its

visitors.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a potential criminal Informant, presently

very active in Pittsburgh numbers operations who 1s

Intimately

acquainted with many Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers

through early association with them when they began their

racket careers and who is being utilized presently for coverage

the LA ROCCA - GENOVESE - NELSON interests.

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA, a potential criminal informant, presently

engaged in racket activity in the City of Pittsburgh, who

is being utilized presently for general coverage of lottery

and numbers operations in the Pittsburgh area.

HENRY J. BARBER, a potential criminal informant, who is

part owner of the notorious gambling establishment at Chester,

W. Va., known as

"Club 30"

who is being utilized for information

concerning the club and the interest in it of Pittsburgh hoodluns

associated with LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now Vice President

of the Fidellty Trust Company, Loan Department, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

NW 68262 Docld:32332862 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

who is being utilised for his knowledge of the Bankers Exchange

in Pittsburgh from which he can obtain Information regarding

bank loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK 1s also

familiar with the activities of several of Pittsburghs top

hoodlums, particularly those of LA ROCoA,

from having worked

on criminal matters for many years in the City of Pittsburgh.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage the

potential criminal informants under development are being

contacted on a continuing and regular basis so that information

obtained from them may be used on

a day to day basis in

connection with spot surveillances of the establishments

frequented

by the subject when he 1s in the Pittsburgh

vicinity.

It is anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice President, Real

Estate Department, Potter Bank and Trust Company, Pittsburgh,

wild keep the Pittsburgh Office advised of any new developments

concerning the proposed construction of a motel financed

by GENOVESE and NELSON in the Monroeville, Pa., vicinity

which would probably have to have the approval

and overall

financial backing of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA.

It is further anticipated that former Pittsburgh top

hoodlum SAMUEL NATHANIEL LEVINE, who is now a potential

criminal informant for the Pittsburgh Office and who is

well acquainted with LA ROCCA, will be contacted at regular

intervals so that a more complete picture of the racketeering

activities In the city of Pittsburgh may be obtained.

It should be noted that the identity of "TIGER" is being

sought so that he may be contacted personally and will no

longer have to depend on the written word for the furnishing

o1 his racket information.

LEADS

BALTIMORE AND JACKSONVILLE - Information

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Baltimore

Office inasmuch as MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, the personal accountant

and close associate of the subject, makes his permanent residence

in that city.

It is felt that the

Baltimore

office should be

- 3 -

NW 68262 Docld:32332862 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

apprised of all recent developments in the LA

ROCCA

investigation so that in the event GOLDBERG 1s recontacted

as a potential criminal informant by agents of the Baltimore

0ff1ce &

more Intelligent contact may be made.

one

copy of this report is being furnished to the Jacksonville

office for information purposes

because of allegations made

by the wife of In ROcCA and Pittsburgh Informants concerning

subject's travel to Florida and Cuba during his so-called

"aisappearance" from Pittsburgh.

With the background

thus

supplled it is felt that the Jacksonville Office can

Intelligently handle the coverage of any future leads

requested in that vicinity.

BUFFALO

AT BUFPALO, NEW YORK

It 15

requested that the residentsrof 1210 West Avenue,

Buffalo;

be identifled fully and a brief sumary of their

background set forth.

It should be noted that a letter was

mailed from this address

to the LA ROCCA residence on

8/18/58.

MIAMI

AT MIAMIL

FLORIDA

to the present in the most logical hospital facilities in

the greater Miami - Miami Beach vicinity in an effort to

ascertain whether the subject was ever treated for a "severe

strep throat"

or any other similar allment. It should be

noted that the subject's wife still claims

that he is in

Florida and from Information she has furnished to neighbors

and Government agents thus far it would appear that he 1s

In the southern portion of Florida and more specifically

in the Miami vicinity.

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

will ascertain the identity of the owner of a 1957 Buick

Special sedan with

a white top and light blue bottom,

- 4=

NW 68262 Docld:32332862 Page 5

---

