Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10463 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}
asett:NW 68261 Date

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 19

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 15

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32239471 Page 1



Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10463

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM
TO

TITLE :

DATE

10/12/76
PAGES 29

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
LARSON, BILLIE GAY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32239471 Page 2


~PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM pee ac
(Please:Use Typewriter: *-. U.S. HOUSE: OF. REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes.

‘on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name-(First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Billie Gay Larson

Employee Social Security Number

3/6/77

Type of Action

bee]

Employing Office or Committee

Select Committee on Assassinations

(J Appointment
CO Solory Adjustment

&] Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following: information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, L] Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or [7] Professional.

2. [4 Special or Select Committee: Authority~H..Res.

3. FJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable,-Level

wl certify that this. authorization isnot in. violation of 5 U.S:C.-3110(b), prohibiting the.employment of

relatives.

Gignoture of Authorizing Official)

A ‘Louis Stokes, Chafrman

-All.appointments.and salary.adjustments.for employees: under the House Classi

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

4 _ Select Committee on Assassinations

Tite

‘ationsAct and-for Committee: em-

ployees, except those’ of the Committee<on Appropriations; the: Committee:.on.the-Budget,-and the.Joint Committees; must

be approved by the.Committee.on. House Administration. + .

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only: -
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

+ ae = =

Nw 68261

| Docld:32239471 Page 3

RiicaSiatra cial Lasers aed etna delle

ae



Docld:32239471 Page 4

Select Committee on Assassinations
GQ. Bouse of Representatives

‘3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 2, 1977

Richard A. Sprague

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Sprague:

As we discussed today, I have accepted a
position in the Office of the Speaker of the House
effective Monday, March 7.

I would like to convey to you my personal
admiration and feel we are very fortunate to have
a person of your caliber in the service of the
Congress.

Your continued leadership of the investi-

gations is absolutely vital and I wish you every
success.

Respectfully,

Billie Gay Larson



M

PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION- FORM

(Please Use: Typewriter - U.S. HOUSE OF: REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or-changes-~

Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the

or Ballpoint Pen) authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

U hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Billie Gay Larson 2-1-77
~ Employee Social Security Number Type of Action .-

D Cl Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Ci Solary Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Committee on Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$10,000.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.).

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical or (] Professional.

Toot.

BY

2

Special or Select Committee: Authority —H. Res.__.

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House,.complete item below.)

Position. Number. f applicable, Level . Step__.

I. certify. that this authorization is..not in: violation: of :5 U.S.C. 3110(b),..prohibiting ‘the: employment: of
relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official

Henry B. Gonzalez

«All.appointments and-salary adjustments for employees under:the:House. Classification Act and-for Committee em-
ployees; except those of: the Committee:on: Appropriations; the Committee on.the Budget, and the, Joint Committees, rmust!
be approved. by the-Committee on House Administration. oe ; ere

APPROVED:._.

Chairman, Committee on Hoy

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

W 68261 ~ -
locid:32239471 Page 5

Miia



GPO! 1975 0 - $7.25.

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

"5 (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures; corréetions, or changes

il i on this-form must be initialed by the
.or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) .

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: a

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

~ Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date F . 4

ae Hi “ ; a
v = \
; ay Empoyes Sit Security Number " V 3/77 Type of Action eg FE: \

i . Appointment a ‘ 4
eck >. Employing Office or Committee ex Solary Adjustment : z "

, a Termination:(At closé of business on-effective date)... .
Select Comalttee on Assasé{nations : aa 4
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) t

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$18,400.

[J Standing‘Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or [1] Professional.

“Zot gg: -Congress

24 Speciol oF Select Committee: Authority—H. Reiay

3; EJ Joint Committee.

(IF Empla

of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

“Position Number.

If applicable, Level.

i certify fhat this
relatives,

Date:

~All appointments and salary adjustments for employees ‘under. the House. Classification Act ‘and for Cémmittes vem:
ployees, except. those of the Committee‘of Appropriations, thé Committee-on the Budget, ‘and. the Joint Committees, must é
be approved by the Committee on House! ‘Administration.

Ss APPROVED

Chairman, Committee on Hddse,Administr

| Office of Finance use only
Office Code,

10. Copy for Initiating Off


’ PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. - , — \

| . ~ (Please Use Typewriter < U.S. HOUSE OF -REPRESENTATIVES. \_. (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
| . | Lor Ballpoint Pen) > Washington 0.¢-20515 7 sithenizing official ye uated by the
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: .

| | hereby authorize the following payroll action:- '

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
y Larson) Wey H

Employee: Social Security Number Type of Action . i

Cl Appointment ~ | \

Employing Office or Committee \ 8D] Salary Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information,
P y Adi 1g

r Position Title = | Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. D Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or'{-] Professional. : ‘

Special or Select‘Committee: Authority—H. Res.! Congress, - \

3. LF) Joint. Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) - oy

Position Number________-__-___. If applicable, Level_______.. Step.

| certify that this: authorization. is not. in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All-appointments and salary: adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em:« . |,
ployees, except those of the Committee on: Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget,-and the Joint ‘Committees, must -- \
be approved EY the sui on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

| Monthly Annuity $

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee *

'| NW 68261
| Docld:32239471 Page 7


t

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM, =

(Please Use Typewriter. ~ C U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 3 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 catherine uffieal.)” initiated by the:

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action: . Y
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) "Effective Date
Billie Gay Larson e/y7s
Employee Social Security Number . . Type of Action

“© Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ACJ Salary Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations (7 Termination {At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary =

Secretary © 314,003

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

7 1. [1] Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or] Professional.

Ea

2

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res...

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) =e

Position, Number. If applicable, Level_ ..Step____

- | certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment: of
relatives. .

{Type or print nam

iitee 0

ihoriing Oficial),
Assassinations

Ployees, except those. of the Committee‘on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, “must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

jouse Administration ~

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

— ———— — — —s ————- a ---

i! —
NW 68261 —
Docld:32239471 Page 8

ey



PAYROLL Aas

(Please Use Typewri U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Bxe ns, or changes

. 7 On ti 7 Sie initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
“629

& . 5
{ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

_ Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) “Effective Date a
Billie Gay Larson ~* October 12, 1976
i" ~ Employee Social Security Number — Type of Action
Ee | BS Appointment
7 Employing Office or Committee D Salary Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations 1] Termination {At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title ~ OL FSG _ Gross Annual Salary

Secretary $13,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (J Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or (] Professional.

2. f] Special or Select Committee: Authority~H. Res. L540

3. [1 Joint Committee. 1015 75 4 a: 45
a 45
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) Hor R, FINANCE OFFiew

Position Number.

™ Signature of Avhorzing Offiil)
Thomas _N. Downing

(ype or print nome of Authorizing Official
Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committes on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
om

be approved by the Committee on House Administration, \
|

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.



MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

fother nephew brother-in-law.
| mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
‘daughter wife stepmother. i
“brother father-in-law stepbrother |
sister mother-in-law stepsister {
uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |

first cousin : |

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

“I am not related xX

2I-am related by the following relationship

fia a January 10, 1977

Signature of Emplyee Date

tw 68261
|| Docld:32239471 Page 10



>
OY

“March 4, 1977 \

Ms. Billie Gay Larson
514 Sixth Street, S.W.
Apt. A

Washington, D.C. 20003

Dear Billie:

Although I am sorry to see you leave this
staff, I fully understand the reasons and think
the position that has been offered you. in the office
of the Speaker’ of the House is wonderful and on your ‘
behalf I am most happy to see you move into that
position. . | \

I do want to thank you for all of your efforts
on our behalf. You have not only performed your job
exceedingly well, but you have been a great help to
me personally in many of your comments and suggestions.
Beyond that, I have admired you as a person and have
enjoyed the feeling of closeness and friendship with

ey

you. |
|
Best of wishes to you. I semain
Sincerely yours,
Richard A. Sprague
Chief Counsel and Director |

RAS:elb

W 68261 5 em _
locld:32239471 Page 11



Nw 68261

Select Committee on Assassinations
GH. House of Representatives

‘9342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 2, 1977

Richard A. Sprague

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Sprague:

As we discussed today, I have accepted a
position in the Office of the Speaker of the House
effective Monday, March 7.

I would like to convey to you my personal
admiration and feel we are very fortunate to have
a person of your caliber in the service of the
Congress.

Your continued leadership of the investi-

gations is absolutely vital and I wish you every
success.

Respectfully,

48 Ve

° Billie Gay Larson

| Docld:32239471 Page 12



Employment Information Form

je annual salary

1. Name (Last, First, Biddle) Ch Mr. 28 Miss C} Mrs.| 10. Birth date (Moar, Day, Year) cepts
and Address (Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code) 5-19-44
Larson, Billie Gay Pai. Home State other

514 Sixth St. SE Apt. A Utah
Washington, D. C. 20003" [az Heise
_ a 7 _ Steet 6
| "P) Home phone Gnelsding Area Gade) | 3. Other ph sg Arey Cod, | 13, Ave you a United States citizen?
| 0a S97" 304” |220.9-39§ 3706 3 Ye ON

. Kind of job you are applving (0 AISEE OR PARI Vo Siig ca
secretarial, research, clerk

ns involving, sypin:

Ferm of Employment: Rj Full Time C) Summer _ must undergo tess administered either by the Placentent Office or by the Uw
SS Eva Dp Ne Cisd Sepsite Commision. af the latter is used, attach Nottee of Rating dated
. ‘cept parttime employment? DY (XNo L] Office equipment (specify)) ———————______-________
8. When will you be available? 9-20-76 } © Gy Computer; Q Terminal Operator, 1 Peogeammer, [1] Systems Analyst

tly mployed by the US. Scant, the Guste expertise with specific systems, languages, and components.)

office of the Congress? [} Yes ({ No

House of Representa

‘on examinations, titles of exarninations and dates of ratings.

AYA ONo
drama Mansr caer coun

of 5

ygible ratings attained on U.S. Civil Service Commi:

20. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months? ah
1 emphasis: OX Academic, (] Business, [Other (specify) Gebate, J ournaTisny

schools attended (for example, business, vocational, armed forces, or trade). Gi
studied. number of classroom hours of instruction per week, certificates, and any other pe

Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company (one week seminar, spring '75)
and_ Rapids, Michigan — -

COURSES STUDIED | CREDITS COMPLETED
Kolar [Minor | “Senener [Guar

ity of Utah_ nist. [phil. | 190

foca

tes attended, subi

4 location (City and Stete) of
ges oF Universities attended.

| CREDITS COMPLETED:

B, Chief undergeaduate college subjects Semester

Donors and show prlicipation in extracurricular, civic, commu

a h ats and awards. (Pr: har
autivities, cud 12. professional and sciegtifc societies.) . . . :
‘Awarded scholarship to University of Utah based on academic achieve-

-fment and extracurricular activities. Current membership in Sierra
Club and.Common Cause.

23. Other languages. (Show proficiency in speaking, writing, end reading.) | 24. Dates of military service, ifany. From: To:
read some French and Spanish Branch; NA —— Serial Not

‘Answer

Following questions. (If you answer "Yes" to any of these questions, give all pertinent details in Iter: 28:) ¥Es [ NO

or aie you now under charges for any offense against the Jaw? x

. Have you been convicted of any offense against the law or forfeited cotlat
sally adjudicated in juserile court or under a

(Omit al! trafic violations and any offense committed prior to your 21s birthday which was
Youth Offender Law.) .

XK
|. Does the U.S. Gaveninent employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood or marriage)?
Uf your ansiver it "Yes," list in User 28 for each relative: (1) full mares (2) relationships and (3) department, agency. or office.)

& Do Not Write In This Block ~

were you convicted by general court-martial or discharged under other than honorsble conditions?,

ia the military secvice,

Space for detailed answers, Indicate tema number to which answers apply. Reet

| jem No] 27 Gare of TEST RESULTS
| Nancy L. Larson eine: 77 WPM, ON A'S MINUTE TEST
sister ya y
| Office of Guam _ 12" wpm, —£ __. ERRORS)
| “Federal Building
| San Francisco, CA SHORTHAND: _fO . W.P.M. ON A 3 MINUTE
— —| OTHER TEST
SCORES: _
pare: 4/3/72.
‘ AYT INI ATYORESS: Joint COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
nw oa2bt* Fee ee ON Gane Orie MANRGEMENT

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Docld:32239471 Page 13

a Congress of the Gnited States ts



NW

61

| Docld332239471" Page 14

(A résumé is

Describe Employment Experience On This Form,
OO applicatis

not a substitute for this form and will not-be made a part of the

ff more than 2 pages.)

29. PART-TIME And SUMMER

ployment Durin;

The Last Three Years.

Name of Employer Dates Salary

Position and Duties

30. FULL-TIME Employment. (List Most Recent Experience First.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

yom 3/75 qo rneseenanes6/75| "UPervas

Exggt title of posifion

Aonni gay, 650.
or mo. Sevting § «810.

Present $.

‘Name of immediate supervisor

Tom Edwards 190" taee
e
Tas Godel Pious Noy Finan 4E57 934 14007 atee

Name of employer (frm, organization, efc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Insurance Company
t Lane
reek, CA

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your € character, @ fons, and recc

record of employment? [XJ Yes [J No

to leave

Direct ed contract and Tieensing Bcervarses between Co- and

its agents in 12 western states.

ing systems; wrote department manual. — S

upervised 5.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Anoual Sahay 60 600
2 A : acting a
fom DET2 we 2/73 Executive Secretary MO+ Vine 625.

Name of immediate supervisor
Harold Kramer, President

‘Arca Code and Phone No., if kaowa 419769

Name of employer (fir
Celestia

firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

1 Arts Publising

Stree eB E

oraga

Reason for leaving

mov

(approx. 35 miles from office)

Description of worl

mdled all correspondence eee President /owner.

Responsible

for distr

ution of new products and product info.

to national mktg. |

staff. Reviewed material submitted for

pub.

3.

4/70 7 Legal Se

From

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position
6/71

‘Annual Salary

Starting 8.
cretary MO + yoaving $

consideration.
435.

Name of immediate supervis

aREeaSed) Stoddard 800 Cont

‘Area Cade and Phone No., if known Salt Lak

epee Em Chee CES ER EAS om Tem

inental Bank Building
e City, Utah

“nove from Utah to California

Reason for leaving

Description of work Prepal legal documents and c

orrespondence for senior partne

| Responsible for ordering all of

‘ice supplies used by staff of 2

Exact title of position

Legal Se

Dates of employment (month, year)

© om 1/65 te

From,

1.69

‘Annual Slay)

385.

cretaty 0 toni SS

Name of immediate supervisor Nume of employer (fi

Attorney General Phil L. Hansen

‘Arca Code and Phone No., if kaowa

Rare EARS Leys"

rm, OF ga

etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
oxney General
ta

Mr.

Reason for le:

Hansen's term of office

ned primarily to crimina

Description of work

1 division for preparation of

pleadings, briefs and correspondence.

Also substituted for receptioni

and on telephone desk.

31. REFERENCES. List threc persons who are NOY related to you and who have definit
Do NOT repeat namnes of supervisors listed under Items 29 and 30,

you are applying.

¢ knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which

PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS

rat) (Nursber, Sireet, City, State, and ZIP Code) BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION:
Byron L. Fisher, Esq. Fae biag & aboveyens ' | Attorney
David Hinds Les Sixth Av publishing

Redwood City, “CA 94163

Robert L. Hartesty

601 Colorado Streét
Austin, TX 78701

fiaagert Reece:

CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sign in in8)

T CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this ff{én
and in any atlachment are true, complete, and correct to
+ “tnowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.

DATE SIGNED

vy & COVFRNMERT PRINTING OFFICE

£ 9/13/76

owh O-


Congress of the Cuited States Nahe

Employment Information Form

1. Name (Last, First, Middle) Mr. 34} Miss 0) Mrs. | 10. Birth date (Mouth, Day, Year) 14, Lowest acceptable annual salary

: Mi itt en, cy Sie and 21 COE) ele oea ec
Larson, Billie Gay Jit. Home State — "Pas, Number of dependents other
514 Sixth St. SE Apt. A | Utah tonsil
“Washington, D. C. 20003 | i. 7 16. Weight 7 7
nes : © joches 110
32 Home phone (including Area Gade) | 3. Other phone (including Areg Codi | 13. Are you a United States citizen? [22 Sacial Security Number
0A-SY7- 30 YF 202 ~ JIS =O XH ye No :
-g. Kind of fob you aye agplving bon AS OR MAILE 1s. Skills =
secretarial, research, clerk ea erins ea 7 Re eee cern Oca
"5. Term of Employment: Xj Full Time ( Summer eee ciedires tess dnikincieh vith: by the Biccimunt Offce gr by the Us
ARG eee Wye Ne Cit Sere i Comming, 1 the latter is used, attach Notice of Rating dated

7. Will you accept patt

‘employment? D Yes [XNo [1] Ofice equipment (specify): —————______________
& When will you be available? 9-20-76 (Computer: () Terminal Operator, £} Programmer, [] Systems Analyst

Grate expertise with specific systems, languages, and components.)

9. Are you presently employed by the U.S. Senate, the
tives, or other office of the Congress? (} Yes (X No

House of Represea

1p. List eligible, ratings attained on U.S. Civil Service Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

Zo. Did you graduate (rom high school, or will you graduate within the nest aine months? DE Yes OZ OZ
Course enphasis: Academic, CO Business, 1 Other (neciyy Gebate, JournalySi

EST i

— No
se drama

21. ini: sols attended (for example, business, vocationcl, arrted forces, or trade). Give for each the natne and Location of school, dates attendes
studied, number of classroom hours of ‘instruction pet week, certiticgtes, and any other pertinent data,
Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company (one week seminar, spring '75)
‘and Rapids, Michigan _ a
- Grade-Point | Rank Dates
22, A. Nate and location (City and State) of COURSES STUDIED "| CREDITS COMPLETED | ie Akended _| Tyre of
colleges or universities attended. Minor | Semester [Quaker Class | From [ton] Desee®
University of Utah phil. 190 2_{69 |BS
7 CREDITS COMPLETED]. CREDITS COMPLETED

B, Chief undergeaduate college subjects Semester ter f graduate college subjects ‘Semester | Quarter

Dz Special achievements and, awards. (Provide a phelasie achievements and boners and show ‘participation im extracurricular, eivic, community and similar
eu Gnaprojessignal and sedeptifc ‘socitien.) 90g : ‘ i
Awarded” schofarship to University of Utah based on academic achieve-

-ment and extracurricular activities. Current membership in Sierra

Club_and.Common Cause.

23. Other languages. (Show proficizncy in speaking, writing, and reading.) 24, Dates of military service, if any. From: To:
read some French and Spanish Branch; NA Rank: Serial No.

‘Answer the following questions. (If you anrwer “Yes 40 any of these questions, give afl pertinent details in lem 28:) YES

nse against the law?

25. Have you heen convicted of any offense against the law or forfeited collateral or are you now under charges for any of }
court or ender a

(Omit ell trafic violations and any offense corsmitied prior to your 2st birthday which was finally adjudicated
Youth Offender L & es 5

26, White in the mi

‘ce, were you convicted by general court-martial or discharged unde

|
27, Does the U.S. Govensaeat employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood ot marriage)? Es
Uf your antwer is. "¥ en” lis in Wer 28 for each relative: (1) full names (2) relationships and (3) department, agency, or office.) QW
h answers apply- Petntcd Do Not Write In This Block
TEST RESULTS

Sf wpm. on a5 MINUTE TEST

28. Space for detailed answers. Indicate Iter number to v

Kem No] 27
1 Nancy L. Larson

2] sister vy p
| 3 Office of Guam 1 wpm. 4 ERRORS)
Federal Building
+} San Francisco, CA SHORTHAND: _ FO. W.P.M. ON A3 MINUTE
OTHER TEST
SCORES: — — _

/,

JTING ATDORESS: Joint COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
NW cart OFFICE OF PLACEMENT AND OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WasHINGTOM, D.C, 2051S

veriFiep py: AP %? /

Docld:32239471 Page 15


Describe Employment Experience On This Form.

\

(A résumé is not a substie _sor this form and will not. be made a part of the
application, if more than 2 pages.)

PIMJE And

SUM

{MER Employment During The Last Three Years.

Name o| Dates

ployer

Salary Position and Duties

30. FULL-TIME Employment. (List Most Recent Experience First.)

Dates of ecaployment (north, year)

To wresereratits6 /75

Exggt title of position Annual Salary 6
upervisor mo Sarthe s 690.
© Present S—

Tom Edwards

‘Keown 4 157934=1400-]

"Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code,
Foremost Insurance Company

100 Wiget Lane

Walnut’Creek, CA

present employer segarding your charac

ter, qualifications, and record of employment? No

[x] Yes

son for wanting to leave

ion of work Directed contract a

nd Ticensing activities between Co. and

its agents in 12 western state

8. Developed new filing and record keep-|

in

systems; wrote department manual.

Supervised 5.

Dates of employment (mouth, year)

5/72

2.

From 2173

Te

Exact title of position Annual Salar 6 00. 0
* Hing $—
Executive Secretary |mo.)). 695.

‘Name of iinmediate supervisor.

Harold Kramer, President

‘Area Code and Phone No.,

a G57 692-4500 |

Name of employer (firm, orgenization, ete.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Celestial Arts Publising

est Adrian Road,

nut Cree

Reason for leaving

moved” from San Bruno

to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)

andled all correspo

Description of w

ndence for President/owner. Responsible

| for distr ibution of new produ

cts and product info. to national mktg.

staff. Reviewed material submitted for pub. consideration.
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Anoual Sinn
tom 4/70 vo 6/71 Legal Secretary mo. na $A
| ~ _
Name of immediate sone Nape of paler irm, -qcranization, ete.) and pciress fing ding Zh Code, if
antor Stoddard PabTay &’cténdeain” (sw ET ee
re ngord yy ° 800 Continental Bank Building

| Area Code and Phone No., if known,

Salt Lake City, Utah

i | Reason for leaving

moved from Utah to California

Deiotioa of wok Prepared legal docum

ents rs and correspondence_ for senior “partne

| Responsible for orderin;

all office supplies used by staff of 22.

Dates of employment (month, year)

Fon. 1/65 re 1-69

Exact title of position

Legal Secretary

‘Annual Salary

5
° rig 42

Leavin;

Name of immediate supervisor

Attorney General Phil L. Hans

Name of employer (firm, orga ee. y and address (in

en gifice pf Epes hea Rey General

‘Arca Code and Phone No., if knowa

end of Mr. Hansen's

Reason for leaving

term_ of office

Description of work

Assigned primarily 1

to criminal division for preparation of _

pleadings, briefs and “corresp

ondence. Also substituted for receptioni

ae and on telephone desk.

you

SI. REFERENCES: List tee persons who ae NOT tlated to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the postion for which |
¢ applying. Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under Items 29 and 30.

FULL, NAME

“PRESENT RUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS

(Namiber, Sirces, City, State, are! ZIP Code) ES he See ESS)

| Byron L. Fisher, Esq.

ts made in this {en
and correct to tre

are made in good faith.

Fabian & gigajenin Attorney
David Hinds | 763 Sixth Ave. Siichi
Redwood City, CA 94163 publishing
Robert L. Hartest | 60L Colorado Streét Y 7 if
a arcesty Austin, 1X 78701 Resgech {be Yu.
CERTIFICATION DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE eee
~™
hes <4, Ce

9/13/76

261
Docld}32239471 Page 16

U.S GCOVERR:

paintixe orice M978 0



1. Name (Last, First, Mid:lle)
and Adare: ber,

cet, City, State, and ZIP Code) 5-19-44
Larson, Billie Gay rE

Congress of the Gnited States

Employment Information Form

a

‘Month, Day, Year)

O Mr. 4 Miss 1) Mrs, | 10. Birth ¢:

15, Number of dependants other

514 Sixth St. SE Apt. than sell gy
Washington, D. C. 200037 16. Weight
_ = 110

hone (jneluding Area Gade) le Other phone (inet

02-SY7- 3094

ng Ares,
32022 -IIE-2906 8 vu 11 No
FES

id of job you are applying for:

secretarial, research, clerk

CECE ATA

3 Typing wpm.

3, Term of Emplo)

nt: 29 Full Time) Summer

(Fo be considered for positions ine

Wilt you accept temporary employment? Byes O No EA he

Uf the beste)
Bs.)

Will you accept part-time employment? D Yes [XNo [1] Office equipment (specify) —

&. When will you Be available? O-20—-/6 [ Computer: (Terminal Opera:

ently employed by the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of Represeota-
office of the Congeess? [] Yes OX No

Geate expertise with specific systerns,

red either by Hi

—p

{2} Shorthand
‘atving typing or shorthand, applic

Placement O fice or'by the
aulach Notice of Rating

, 1] Programmer, [) Systems Analyst
languages, and components.) g

19. List eligible ratings attained on U.S. Civil Service Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

21

20. Did you graduate from high school, of will you graduate within the next nine monchs?

Course en

nasis: OK Academie

va 2/62
[1 Business, 1 Other (specify, Gebate, journ:

Grand Rapids

schools attended (for example, business, vocatio,
studied, number of classroom hours of instruction pz

Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company

i, armed forces, or trade

pertinent data

week, Certificates, and an

,Michigan

(one week seminar, spring '75)

22. A. Name and location (Ci
alleges or universities attends

and State) of
J.

Average on

Minor | Semester [Quarta]

COURSES STUDIED | CREDITS COMPLETED] Grade Point | Rack
40 Seale” | Class PF,

phil. 90 2.7

B. Chief undergraduate college subjects Semester [ Quarter

CREDITS CONPLETED|

f graduate college subjects ‘Semester

CREDITS COMPLETED.

Quarter

D. Special achievements
eeieities, end in profesional

warded scho

nd, award:

“ment and extracurricular activities. Current membership in Sierra
Club _and.Common Cause. :

1s. (Provide all scholastic achievements and honors and show pa
nd aeheplife societies.)

arship to University of Utah based on

and similar

lar, civic, communis

academic achieve-

23. Other languages. (Show profcizncy in speaking, writing, and reading.) | 24, Dates of military service, if any.

read some French

and Spanish Branch; NA Ranks

From: To:

Serial No.

‘Answer the following questions. (Uf

25. Have you heen convicted of any offenze against the law or forfcited collateral

(Omit all trafic viola
Youth Offender 1.

ms arid

26. White in the military service, were you convicted by general court-ro:

27. Does the U.S. Goventagat employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blot
Uf your answer is "Yes"? list in Item 28 for each relati

you answer "Yes" 40 any of these questions, give all pertinent details in Isem 28:)

6, you now under charges for 307
oF a,

"any offense committed prior to your 2138 birthday which was finally adjadies

riage)?
[2] full names (2 relationships and (3) department,

ial or discharged under other thin honorable condi

offense’ against the Jaw?
write court or Ender a

7. oF 0)

2B. Space for detail:

. Indicate Item number to whi

answers apply. Perotd Do Not Write

Trem No. 7

1 Nancy L.

Larson vying: —__7

2 sister

3 Office of Guam

Federal Building

San Francisco, CA shortuano: 6 0.

OTHER TEST

Oa? 72m ayy TEST RESULTS

In This Block ~
W.P.M. ON A 5 MINUTE TEST
7 i a ERRORS)

W.P.M. ON A 3 MINUTE TEST
5

SCORES:

| nw 683ét

veriiep py: APY

DATE: 4lait f&

ITING ADDRESS:

12239471 Page 17

Joiny ComMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF PLACEMENT AND OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WasHineTon, D.C. 20515



NW 68

| Docld|32239471 Page 18

261

Describe Employment Experience On This Form. (A résumé is not a substitute for this form and will not. be made a part of the
—— application, if more than 2 pages.)

29. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During ‘The Last Three Years.

Name of Employer Dates Salary Position and Duties

30. FULL-TIME Employment. (List Most Recent Experience First.)

Dates of employment (month, year) Exggt title of position ‘Annual Salary 650.
i upervisor Starting $_g7-4

From 3/75 To presmremnssts6 /7 5 MO+ present $—& tO."
Name of immediate supervisor _ Name of employer ([irm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Tom Edwards Hat pa gan Company
c Timer 4157 934=1400-] Walnut Creek,

ro
‘May nguty be made of yous present enployer regarding your character: qalifeations, and record of employment? DQ Ye LC] Neo
Reason for wanting to leave am

Descript

its agents in 12 western states. Developed new filing and record keep-

wivok Directed contract and Licensing activities between Co. and |

ing systems; wrote department manual. - Supervised 5.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Annual Salany 600.
2. . Fi ait 8
Seey 73 we 2/73 Executive Secretary |mo. |" "695.

Name of iminediate supervisor Name of ersployer (firm, orgaitization, ete.) and addeess (including ZIP Code, if known)

Harold Kramer, President Celestial Arts Publising

— ae A 3] Adrian Roa
‘Arca Code and Phone No., if known 415/692-4500 | aati? ane as
Reason for leaving moved from San Bruno to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)
Description of work Handled all correspondence for President/owner. Responsible
for distribution of new products and product info. to national mktg.
staff. Reviewed material submitted for pub. consideration.
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact tile of position Annal Say G35.
rom 4/70 vw 6/71 Legal Secretary MO yo ving 6

| Name of immediate supervisor, Napye of employer (Erm, -qrgunizatizn, efe,) and pajlress (incfeding ZIG Code, if kncun)
Ss ‘Bab TaA & Cten enin (is pay

VaeseEd Uy. Stoddard 800 Continental Bank Building

tea Code and Phone Now if Frown, Salt Lake City, Utah :

Reason forteaving  mMOVed from Utah to Calitornia ~~ =

Description of work Prepared legal documents and correspondence for senior partne
| Responsible for ordering all o

fice supplies used by staff of 22.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position ‘Annual Slay
© | om. 1/65 to 1-69 Legal Secret. _
Nye at immediate megan eae aan ane of copie rm, vars 1) and i Gaceing F Gots if ben
torne eneral Phi - Hansen ffic the Attorne enera
by gate fake Crt, OAR uy

‘Area Code and Phone No., if known
Reason forleaving end of Mr. Hansen's term of office Z

Description of work ASSipned primarily to criminal division for preparation of
pleadings, briefs and correspondence. so substituted for receptioni
and on telephone desk. _

31, REFERENCES? List three persons who are NOT related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which
you are applying. Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under Reems 29 and 30,

FULL.NANE [ psisr nusnaiss on rose apis BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION
Byron L. Fisher, Esq. ‘abian & Clendenin Ta
Bh > q fabs 1 abogey n Attorney
David Hinds ae 763 Sixth Ave. ~ arr
Redwood City, CA 94163 publishing
| Robert L. Hartest: GOL Colorado Streét so. Deput
; y Austin, TX 78701 RESeclEBy %y.
__-| Teka: Austin’ |
° ‘CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sign in ink) DATE SIGN
ERTIEY that he statements made in thi
CTE a esa te 2, we 9/13/76
af mw Unowledge and belief, and are made in good faith,

°

xT paintine orice 4


|

Docl

NW 68261

Congress of the Guited States

Employment Information Forin

ast, First, Midetle) CMe. XX} Miss) Mrs.| 10- Birth date (Month, Daz, Year) 14, Lowest acceptable annuat salary
8 (Number, Since City, State, nud ZIP Code) 5-19-44 STS" OOO
Larson, Billie Gay lit. Home State

“—~§14 Sixth St. SE Apt.-A a Utah
a Washington, D. C. 20003 [ a2. Heighe Bree 16, Weight

: ~ 5k G tnches 110
2, Home phone (iaeluding Area Gode) | 3. Other phone (ind 23 Cod. | 13. Ate you a United States citizen?
0a-SY7- 3094 202 “225-9906 % ve _O No
4, Kiad of job you ye apphiing fon OO ROR WARE esa, _

secretarial, research, clerk 0 Typing 2.9. wpm. pg Shorthand 80 om.

‘5. Team of Employment: & jammer en tedenuo tests dinikbered either by the Blebemns Ofc on by ae BS,
Aor ea fase lem ShivaconoE Cit Ser “ Commision. Mahe ater 1F ied, atsech None of Roving davek
7. Wilt you accept part-time employment? D Yes EXNo [J Ofice equipment (specify)

9-20-76

8. When will you be available?

C) Computer: J Terminal Operator, 1 Programmer, [] Systems An:

9. Are you

tives, or other office of the Congress? (] Yes OX No

ently employed by the USS. Senate, the U.S. Hause of Represen

lyst
Grate expertise with specific systems, languages, and consponents.) +

19, List eligible ratings attained on U.S, Civil Seevice Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

bo

(specify)

. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months?

2 Yes oes
debate, journalisms*

No —
drama wcHesr crave conpiiren

Course emphasis: EX Academic, 1 Bu:
ing schools attended (for example,

studic

Foremost Insurance Company
Grand Rapids, Michigan

; rocational, arred forces, or trade).
number of classroom hours of instruction per week, certibcgtes, and any oth

Supervisory Development Seminar

ive for cach the name and location of school, dates attended, subjects
nent €ata.

(one week seminar, spring '75)

22. A, Name and location (City and State) of oe Gare) Year
colleges oF ities attended, [Major De
University of Utah nist. | "69

B. Chief undergeaduate college subjects

CREDITS COMPLETED

CREDITS COMPLETED

C. Chief graduate college subjects ‘Semester | Quarter

D. Special achievements and, awards, (Py
Glijvites, anf dn brojessignal and seteptife ‘so
Awarded’ scholars ip

Club_and.Common Cause.

all scholastic achievements and

-) . 5
to University
“ment and extracurricular activities.

Donors and show participation in extracurricular, civic, community and similar

of Utah based on academic achieve-
Current membership in Sierra

25. Other languages. (Show profiizncy in speaking, writing, and reading.) | 24. Dates of military service, ifany. From: To:
read some French and Spanish Branch: NV Rank: Serial Now:
‘Answer the following questions. (If you answer "Yet" to any of these questions, give all pertinent details in Item 28:)... YES | NO
25. Have you been convicted of any offense against the Jaw or forfeited collateral or are you now under charges for any ofense a Xx
(Gap el tfc soletionn and any oferse cori priar to yonr Bin biteday which wea filly edyadete eri
Youth Offender Law.) x
26, While in the military seevice, were you convicted by general court-roartial o discharged under other thaa honorable condition: : a
27, Does the U.S. Govenrizut employ in a civilian capacity any relative of youts (by blood of marriage)? |x | _
Uf your answer is "¥en! list in Were 28 for each relative: (1) full name; (2) retationships and (3) department, agency. or office.) QI:

28.

‘Space for d

led answers. Indicate Rem number to which answers apply.

27

Ttem No.

Office of Guam

Peroted Do Not Write In This Block ~
@ar-7e ayy TEST RESULTS
TYPING: 7. W.P.M. ON A 5 MINUTE TEST
C22 wem., —Z___ errors)

Federal Building _

San Francisco, CA

SHORTHAND: _fO. W.P.M. ON A 3 MINUTE yeu

OTHER TEST.

SCORE!

DATE: 4 fre

VERIFIED BY:

MAILING ADDRESS:

OFFICE OF PLACES

12239471 Page 19

WashiniGron, D.C.

Joint CoMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

ENT ANO OFFICE MANAGEMENT
20515



‘NW

Describe Employment Experience On ‘This Yorm.

(A késumé is not a substitute for this form and will not be made a part of the
application, if more than 2 pages.)

1 29. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During ‘The Last Three Years.

Name of Fi

Dates

Salary Position and Duties

30, FULL-TIME Umployment. (Lis Most Recent Experience First.) |

Dates of employment (r20nth, year)

3/75
[Name of inmediate supervisor

Tom Edwards

From To PRESEN T-TEM

| Area Code and Phone N

~ | Namie of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Tinown 4157934" 1400—|

gt title of position

‘Annual Salary
upervisor

Starting &.
mo.

650.

Present $_

Foremost Insurance Company
100 Wiget Lane
Walnut’Creek, CA

May inguicy be made of your present employer regarding your charac

ter, qualifications, and record of employment? No

i Ye

Reason for wanting to leave

Directed contract a

Desctiption of work

and ricensing activities between Co. and

its agents in 12 western states. Developed new filing and record keep-
ing systems; wrote department manual. - Supervised 5.

Dates of employment (sonth, year) Exact title of position ‘Annual Sak 5 600.
Ped om DLT page 7 /e/6) Executive Secretary  |mo. |” +625.

Name of janmediate supervisor

Harold Kramer, President

Ties Godt and Phone Now if inowa 415/692-4500 |

‘Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

BA epee Arts Publising
state can ebotds

Reason for leavines moved from San Bruno

to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)

| Description of work

Scripta} iled all correspo

nmdence for President/owner. Responsible

for distribution of new produc

ets and product info. to national mktg.

staff. Reviewed material sub

mitted for pub. consideration.

Dates of employment (month, year)
6/71

Nsom 4/70

To

Exact title of position ‘Annval Selasy

Legal Secretary mo. nee

Name of immediate supervisor

Raeeea sed) Stoddard

Nage, sohepulee Gem ase ee is Caeser ay Code, if known)
800 Continental Bank Buildi ing

| Arca Code and Phone No., if knowa

Salt Lake City, Utah '

Reason for leaving WOVEd from Utah to_

California

Desceipti

| Deserip awk Prepared legal docum

ents and correspondence for senior partne

Responsible for ordering all office supplies used 6

Dates of employment (nronth, year)

‘ 1/65

From.

1.69

To

staff of 22
Exact ttle of position Anmal Say 385.
Legal Secret. te ann Carns,

Name of immediate supervisor

Attorney General Phil L. Hans

Name of employer (firm, ors. pe and address (including ZIP Code, if

an gifice pf bey Athorpey General

f known)

| Arca Code and Phone No., if knowa

end of Mr. Hansen's

Reason for leaving

term of office

Description of work

Assigned primarily —

to criminal division for preparation 1_ OF

pleadings, briefs and correspo

ondence. Also substituted for receptioni

4. and on telephone desk.

List three persons who are NOT related to you and who bave definite knowledge of yout qualifications and fitness for the position for which
applying. Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under Ttems 29 and 30.

PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS

| Docld}32239471 Page 20 a

Bo (Naraber, Street, Cityy State, ane! ZIP Code) BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION
/ Byron L. Fisher, Esq- (abiag & aboveyenth Attorney |
David Hinds 763 Sixth Ave reas
. Redwood City, CA 94163 retire
| Robert LY Hartest | 60L Colorado Street ~] ity.
ea ere. Austin, 1X 78701 [Abaggel gelier ey.
a Ree eae: _
CERTIFICATION CA, (Sign in ink) B SIGNED
T CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this fm
ent are true, compl coreet 9/13/76
bt Sena, Sart ate pc ae 7 A he Gana

covrnn:

7

PRINTING OFFICE S576 0



Congress of the Anited States ex

Employment Information Form

Mr. 3} Miss 0) Mrs.
t, City, State, and ZIP Code)

1, Name (Last, First, 2
and Address (Ne

Larson, Billie Gay

10. Birth

Inte (Month, Day, Yea) 14, Lowest acceptable annual salary

£137 600

SV Term of Employment: Xj Full Time [) Summer

15, Number of pendents other
“S14 Sixth § _ foes 0
~ 16. Weight
© seches 110
2, Home phone (including Area © Arg Cook 42 United States citizen?
Qa SYI= 3044 |202-995-2106 , % ve ON
7G Riad of Job you ae agplving oe SC ROR ARI Sai,
secretarial, research, clerk 75 Bg Shorthand 80.
= = colsing. Iyping or shorthand, enplic.

by the Placement Office or'by the

Hye 1 Ne

6. Will you accept temporary employment?

the Latter is used, attach Notice of Rating dated

7. Wilk you accept

When will you

8
9. Are you prescatly employed by the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of Representa
tives, of other office of the Congress? [] Yes O{ No

Ge

1] Computer:

1 Terminal Operator, C} Programmer, [] Systems Analyst
fe espertite with specific systems, languages, and comporients.)

1D. List eligible ratings attaiaed on U.S. Civil Seavice Commission examinations,

titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

is: Of Acsdemic, (2) Business, (Other (specs)

emp!

20. Did you gtaduate from high school, or will you graduate withia the next nine moattis?

debate, journa Pi sity"

rs 2762 ONo |
drama Moai cme comnire

21. Training schools attended (for example, business, vocat:
studied, eumber of, classroom hours of ‘instruction

Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company

1, armed forces, or trade). Gi
week, certificates, and any other

for cach the

and location of school, dates attended,
nent ata.

(one week seminar, spring '75)

Grand Rapids, Michigan

Dates

$ I Rank .

a (City and State) of COURSES STUDIED | CREDITS COMPLETED a0 ype of | Ye
attended. Najoe | “Semester [Ouarer | Class Deaeee |
190 BS |"

B. Chief undergraduate college subjects

CREDITS COMPLETED

C. Chief graduate college subjects Quarter

a7

Veverments and. awards. (Provide all scholastic achicvements and
Ga, projessipnal and seteytife societies.)

ed scholarship to

and. Common Cause.

University
and extracurricular activities.

bonars and show participation in extracurricular, civic, community and simitar

of Utah based on academic achieve-
Current membership in Sierra

33. Other languages. (Show proficiency in speaking, writing, gnd reading.) | 24. Dates of military service, if any. From: To:
read ‘some French and Spanish — pee eee
‘Answer the following questions. (Ij you answer “Yes"’ so any of these questions, give all pertinent details in lem 28:)-
he law ox forfeited collateral or are you now under charges for any offense against the law?

* the fa or Forced Nase Whi an fall adadicsed in favenile costs or tinder @ x

26. -, were you convicted by genzral court-martial or discharged under other than honorable conditions?,

27. it employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood marriage)?

| _AIF your answer is "Yes," list in Item 28 for each reli T} full n. {2} relationship; and (3) department, ney, or office.)

78. Space for detailed answers. Indicate Item number to which answers apply Pebehed Do Not Write In This Block

Kea No] 27 Garnre yf TEST RESULTS.
| 1 Nancy L. Larson TYPING: 77 WPM. ON A 5 MINUTE TEST
| Z{__sister a
| 3 Office of Guam (lan wpm, 7. ERRORS)

Federal Building
San Francisco, CA sHorTHano: % Owe. on a3 MINUTE T§s
1 OTHER TEST —
| SCORES:
= veriried By: AP 4?
| Tere ATM ESS: NT COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
nw 6828 LS so ee eo enae ND Orr ice MANAGEMENT

| Dock

12239471. Page 21

WASHINGTON, D.C.

20515



Describe Employment Experience On This Form.

(A résu

5 not a substitute for this form and will not- be made a part of the
applic

ion, if more than 2 pages.)

3. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During“

The Last Three Years.

Name of Employer Dates

Salary Position and Duties

30, FULL-TIME Employment, (List Most Recent Experience First.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From

To presente /7 5

Exggt tide of position
upervisor

mo. LO.

Present $_——

‘Name of immediate supervisor

Tom Edwards
| Area Code and P Thnown 4L5S793G= 1400

Name of employer (firm, organization, efc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Foremost Insurance Company
100 Wiget Lane
Walnut~Creek, CA

May inquiry be

Your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?

M ve [] Ne

Reason for wanting to leave

Desrition of work __Directed “contract and licensing activities between Co.

and

Developed new filing and record keep-

ing systems;

wrote department manual.

Supervised 5.

Dates of employment (month, year)
5/72

Qe,
From

2/73

To

‘Exact title of position

Annual Say. 600
mo. 625.

Leaving ¢__O-

Executive Secretary

Name of immediate supervisor

Harold Kramer, President

| Arca Code and Phone Now, if kaowa 4197 692=4500-|

‘Name of employer (Jirm, organization, ete.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Celestial Arts Publising
fatand™ Beko ea

Reason for leaving moved from San Bruno

‘to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)

Desctiption of wok Handled all correspondence for President /owner.

Responsible

| for distribution of new products and product “info. to national mktg. |

| staff, Reviewed material submitted for pub. consideration.
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Annual Satay 4, 35.
> Lom 4/70 tr O/71 Legal Secretary mo. od 0

Name of imunediate superviso

VaneeEgelly Stoddard

| Area Code and Phone No., if knowa,

my eta) anid

ape ci cpolesce gre rane es ete a Cita fincfeding aI
800 Continental Bank Building
Salt Lake City, Utah 1

ay Code, if known)

| Reason for leaving

moved from Utah to California

Description of work Prepared legal docume

mts and correspondence for senior partne

Responsible for ordering all office supplies used by staff of 22.

Dates of employment (month, year)

Fon. 1/65 ry 1-69

Exact title of position Annual Say 385.
Starting § _
Legal Secretary Ohne GZ.

Name of immediate supervisor

ttorney General Phil L. Hanse

‘Arca Code and Phone No., if known

Name of employer (frm, “e “— and address (including ZIP Code, if kxoun) |

1 QeTEEaRs CueysthRERey General

end of Mr.

Reason for leaving

Hansen's te

exm of office

Description of wok  ASSigned primarily t

o criminal division for preparation of

pleadings, briefs and correspo:

ndence._ ) subs

and on telephone desk.

Also substituted for receptioni

31, REFERENC!

List three persons who are NOY related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the postion for which
you are applying. Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under Items 29 and 30.

“FULL NAME PRESENT 2 Sn Ox Hoste ADDRESS | BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION
Byron L. Fisher, Esq. abiay Tendenii ma |
By >» Esq abiay & fle ag n Attorney
David Hinds — 763 saan a abli his 7
Redwood Re “CA 94163 publishing
Robert L. Hartest | ROT Potorgds p5peet “|Agso. uty
y Austin, TX dabiet TE Yy,
| CERTIFICATION CA. ]GNATURE (Sign in ink) ae
i T CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this (im
tachment are tut, complete, sad cotectf0 9/1 13/76
‘nuwledge and belief, and are made in toate A pot Ve

8261

| Docld332239471 Page 22

v. §, GOVERR:

paintine orricy: fo%6 0



Congress of the Gnited States

Employment Information Form

1. Name (Last, First,

idle)

D Me 38) Miss PD) Mrs.| 10. Birth €ate (Month, Day, Year)

14, Lowest accep’

ble annual salary

5 ret © aches

land Address (Naser, Szrcet, City, State, and ZIP Code) 19-44 TS" Be
Larson, Billie Gay ie Home Sate bs, 21S. _
514 Sixth St. SE Apt. A Utah wes
D.C. 20003 ” a2. Height : TG. Weight
~ 110

3. Are you a United States citizen?

Kind of job you are agplving for:
secretar {at

» research, clerk 2% Typing —

7

of Employment: Kj Full Time ( Summer

(Fo be considered 4,
musk underga tests ad

Will you accept temporary employment? 4S Yes_C) No

= Will you ace

employment? O Yes (XNo

[Ey Office equipment (specify)

3
6.
7

8

Pyou be available? 9—

20-16 J Computers ©) Teeminst Op

tives, of other office of the Congress?

. Are you presently employed by the Us

S, Senate, the U.S. House of Represeata-
Yes OL No

2, Home ne (including Area ©
0Aa-547- 3044 Hye ON i
18, Skills

. 1 Systems Analyst
“| (State expertise with specific systems, languages, and components.) .

19. List etisib

1964

Ie, ratings attained on U.S. Civil Setvice Conimission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

20, Did you graduate from high school,
emphasis: (& Academic, [) Business, [J Other (specify)

Bye 0762

jn the next nine months?

O No _

te wi

or will you gradi

Gebate, journalieay® drama Was aw: cuir,

Grand Rapids,

Bt. Training schools attended (for example, Dusiness, vocatio
studied, number of classroom hours of instruction

Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company

seek, certitegtes, and any other pertinent, data.

Michigan oe

arried forces, or trade). Give for each the name and Jucation of school, dates attended, subjects

(one week seminar, spring '75)

COURSES STUDIED | CREDITS COMPLETED] Gtade Point | Rank Dates

Attends,

A, Natne and ‘location (cit and State) of WV in
rsities attended. __ | ~Niajoe J Minor Qoatee | 4 Class From [_To_|
of Utah nist. ___|190 62 [69°

——-

B. Chief undergraduate college subjects Semester [ Quarter

CREDITS COMVLETED| CREDITS. COMPLETED |
Semester [Quarter

Dy Special achi
ectjvities, 2

Awar:

ents and awards, (Provide ull scholastic achievements and honors and show particip.
ia. professional and scieptific societies.)

ed’ schofarship to University of Utah based on academic achieve-
-Ment and extracurricular activities. Current membership in Sierra

Club _and.Common Cause.

m in extracurricular, civic, community end similar

read some French

23, Other languages. (Show profcizncy in speaking, writing, and reading.) | 24. Dates of military

if any.
and Spanish Branch: NV Zak! ”

From: To:

Serial No.

25. Have you been ci

Youth Offender Law.)

. Does the U.S. Go¥enment em,

wicted of any offense against the law or forfeited collateral
(Omit all trafic violations and any ofense comm

Joy in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood
Cf your answer ix "Yer,"” list in Items 28 for each relati

“Answet the following questions. (If you answer “Yes” to any of these questions, give afl pertinent details in Item 28:)..

Prior to your 21 birthday which was frally adjudicated

., were you convicted by general court-martial or discharged under other than honorable conditions?

warriage) ?
1] full mare; (2) relationship; and (3) department, ag:

pt are you now under charges for any offense against the Iaw?
Juvenile court or under a

YES | NO

ail

ency, or office.)

. Space for detailed answers, Indicate Item number to which answers apply. | “Pere toct Do Not Write In This Block ~
Tem No. 27 Qa 7ee of TEST RESULTS
1 Nancy L. Larson TYPING: 7f WPM. ON A MINUTE TEST

2 sister

3 Office of Guam

Federal Building

San Francisco, CA

OTHER TEST

SCORES:

1S W.P.M., a ao ERRORS)

SHORTHAND: FO W.P.M. ON A 3 MINUTE yA

pus fi

~} VERIFIED BY:

DATE: le | 74

nw 63it"" INIT ATAND ESS:

Docl

12239471 Page 23

Joint CoMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF PLACEMENT ANO OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515



his Form. (A résumé is not a substitute for this form and will not be made a part of the

Describe Employment Experience On 1
a, if more than 2 pages.)

i 29. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During The Last Three Years.
Name of Employer Dates Salary | Position and Duties

| 30, FULL-TIME Lmployment. (List Most Recent Experience First.)
‘Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position ‘Aanual Salary 650.

Supervisor farting $F
From 3/75 To rresememnnnts6 /7 5 P TMO+ vesent «810.

| Name of immediate supervi Name of employer (firm, organization, ec.) and addiess (including ZIP Code, if known)

Tom Edwards Sa aa eee Ue Company
et Lane
‘Arca Code and Phone Now finown 4L57934=1400~| Wa inut*Creek. CA

¢ of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? Dd Yes OQ: No

May inquicy bem

Reason for wanting to leave

Description of wok Directed Contract and licensing activities between Co. and

its agents in 12 western states. Developed new filing and record keep-

ing systems; wrote department manual. - Supervised 5.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Asinual Salary : 600.
Starting

a 5/72 wg 2/73 Executive Secretary: |mo. 625.

From Leaving ¢__O.

Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Harold Kramer, President Celestial Arts Publising

7 4 23] Adrian Roa

| Area Code and Phone No. known 415/692-4500 etna? an Re &
Renn for levine moved from San Bruno to Moraga (approx: 35 miles from office)
Description of work Handled all correspondence for President/owner. Responsible
Eg.

Reviewed materi
Dates of employment (month, year) : Exact title of position ‘Annual Sia 435.

> Nero 4/70 xv «6/71 Legal Secretary mo. oe

Leaving $.

esgic hand ¢ se psig, aS Code, if krioun)

Name of imnediat Pe Name of employer (Srz, santze
te supervisor ey open pI f a & CTH é:
Candee dell Stoddard ; 800 Continental Bank Building

‘Arca Code and Phone No. i knowa | Salt Lake City, Utah
[Reason forlewing WOVE from Utah to California

Description of work Prepared legal documents and correspondence for senior partne
“Responsible for ordering all office supplies used by staff of 22.

Dates of employment (month, year) ‘Exact title of position Anal Sy 385.

ating &. —
hom 2/65 tm 1-69 Legal Secreta y mo liege G25.
‘Name of immediate supervisor | Name of employer (firm, ogee ig } and address (inclisting ZIP Code, if known)

Attorney General Phil L. Hansen Qifece pe £ bee yA peaney General

Arca Code and Phone No., if known
Rewon frlewiog end of Mr. Hansen's term of office
ion of work AS ed primarily to crimin division for preparati

7 & seats <a
pleadings, briefs and correspo nee. Also substituted for receptioni
and on telephone desk.

31, REFERENCES! List three petsons who are NOT related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which
you are applying. Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under Items 29 and 30.

PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS
(Numiber, Street, City, State, an! ZIP Code)

scr

FULL NAME BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

Byron L. Fisher, Esq. Fabian’ & Glenjenin ~~ | Attorney

David Hinds _ | 263 ‘Sixth Ave. ————
: oa City, CA 94163 ae peget

501 olorado Street £89- uty,
Austin, TX 78701 feggel, Teeery-

IGNED

CERTIFICATION [SIGNATURE (i ee in ink) DAT
T CERTIFY that all of the statements mage in this ifn
and in a ; oplete, and correct to 9/13/76
4 hect af mu knowledge and heliet 1d are made in good faith. ee
NW 68261 wi

Docld!32239471 Page 24 UL 5, GOVERN:

Y Robert L. Hartesty

br Mastine oFKICN {1476 0



Congress of the Guited States

Employment Information Form

of

1, First, Middle) 1D Mr. 3S Miss (] Mrs.| 10. Bisth date (Munth, Daz, Year) 14, Lowest acceptable annual sstary
(Number, Sercet, City, State, and ZIP Code) 5-19-44 we GGG
Larson, Billie Gay a FiwHencISe ee

514 Sixth Utah
_ Washington, D.C. 20003 [a2 Heighe : | 6. Weight
~ ~ 7 110

Home phone (i rea

oat SY7- 3004" | 209-996 2%00

phone (ind

pn tor:

‘secretaria

research, clerk

PISCE FOR AIAMEI YL?

ryping

3. Team of Employment:

'o be considered for posi
must undergo fests at

x Full Time

OS

Civil Service Commiision. If the latter it used,
sf) No Cbie e fe 13 mons.

8. When will you be

9. Are you present
tives, or other office of the Congress?

the U.S. House of Represeata-
O Yes OL No

Ci . Are you a United a 's citizen? in
7

5 typing or shorthand, epplicen
1 thes by the ss mend Office 01° the

aitach Notice of Rating d

1) Computer: €] Terminat Operator, C) Programmer, 1 Sy:
Geare expertise with specific syitems, languages, and components.)

1D. List clizible. catings attained on U.S, Civil Service Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.
1964
20. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months? Bi ves —. io he ONo - _
Course emphasis: EX Acad 0 Bu: 1D otter (specify) Gebate, jo rna' Piss drama "siH#sr crave covererey

~ Trai
* sig

schools attended (for example, business,
tater of lesson hous of intrucion

Supervisory Devel Opie t Se
Foremost Insurance Company
Grand Rapids, Michiga:

od forces, or trade). Give

“week, certiticgtes, and any other pertinent. data,

each the name and location of school, dates attended, subjects

(one week seminar, spring '75)

A. Name and loc:

jon (City and State) of
y of

COURSES STUDIED | CREDITS COMPLETED] Grade Point | Raak
Z| Class

Major [Minor |

hist.

Quarter

Rievernents and, awards. (Prov
ipnal and sche

scholarship to University of Utah based on academic achieve-
Current membership in Sierra

and extracurricular activities.
Club_and.Common Cause.

ell scholastic ad
fe societies.)

honors and show participation in extracurricular, civic, community end similar

23. Other languages. (Show proficizncy in speaking, writ and reading.) 24, Dates of military service, if any. From: To:
read some French and Spanish Branch; NA Aa Serial No.z

‘Answer the following questions. (If you answer "Yes" 40 any of these questions, give all pertinent details in Item 28:)

25, Have you been convicted of any offen: the law or forfeited collateral or ase you mow under charges for any offense against the Jaw? IX

Bu eee. ees
Sonik Opener Lat

Heated in js

offense committed pric ar 2 bday which was finally

ile court or under a

26, While in the military service, were you convicted by geacra —
27. Does the U.S. Govenment employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood ot —
(if your answer it "¥en? Hist in Vers 28 for each relatives (1) full name: (2) relationship; and (3) department, agency. or ofiee.) ZZ
28, Space for detailed answers. Indicate Item number to which answers apply. Pebote Do Not Write Ia This Block
Tem No] 27 Parr yy TEST RESULTS
[Nancy L. Larson —_| TYPING: “7 wpm. on as MINUTE TEST

Office of Guam

Federal Buildin

San Francisco, CA

SHORTHAND: tk W.P.M.

| OTHER TEST

SCORES:

ON A3 MINUTE

1 W.P.M., 4 ERRORS)

veririeo py: APY

| MAITING ADDRESS:
| nw 683i
| Docld:32239471 Page 25

Joiny CoMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF PLACEMENT ANO OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WashINoYON, D.C. 20513



Docld:

8261

Describe Employment Experience On This Form. (A résumé is not a substitute for this form and will not be made a part of the
or application, if more than 2 pages.)

29. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During ‘Che Last Three Years.

Name of Employer Dates Salary Position and Duties

30, FULL-TIME Employment. (List Most Recent Experience First.)

Dates of employment (renzb, year) Exact title of posigion ‘Annual Salary 650.
upervisor Starting $—,

Fon 3/75 ‘to presmnerreste6 /7 5 P TO. resets BLO-

[Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firma, organization, efc.) and addiess (including ZIP Code, if known)
Tom Edwards Foremost Insurance Company

| 100 Wiget Lane
on. if Known G157934= 1400 Walnut@Creek. CA

‘Area Code and P

ntay inguity be made of your present employer segutding your character, qvlifestions, and record of employment? [YL] No

Reason for wanting to leave —_ |

|Description of wok Directed contract and Licensing activities between Co. and
its agents in 12 western states. Developed new filing and record keep-
ing systems; wrote department manual. Supervised 5.

Dates of employment (rtonth, year) Exact title of position ‘Annual Salary 600
2. Fi at —
Fom “5/72 gg 2/73 Executive Secretary |mo. |" 695,
Name of immediate supervisor ~ Name of eraployer (frm, orgcnization, ete.) and addcess (including ZIP Code, if known)
Harold Kramer, President Celestial Arts Publising

arcuate NorFieme BLS 692=45007] etna bee ekO Ea

[Reason forlaving moved from San Bruno to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)
| Description of work Handled all correspondence for President/owner. Responsible

for distribution of new products and product info. ti Ll mktg.

staff. Reviewed material submitted for pub. consi. on.
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Anmval Slsey 435.
Tom 4/70 to 6/71 Legal Secretary mo. oe 500.

Name of immediate sup setign, ete) and

1 Nagc of ogploser Sor pee a) er (inc ding EE Code, if known)
aREea Sed) Stoddard 800 Continental Bank ee)
Atca Code and Phone No,, if knowa : Salt Lake City, _Utah d

Reston forlewing __'WOVEd from Utah to California”

Description of work Prepared_ legal . documents and correspondence for senior partne
Responsible for ordering all office supplies used by staff of 22.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position

From 1/65 tm 1-69 Legal Secreta‘

Name of immediate supervisor "aime of employer (frm, oe dress (including ZIP Code, if b

Attorney General Phil L. Hansen Qtfic fake cpeyAeheepey General

4

‘Area Code and Phone No., if known

Reson forlavioe end of Mr. Hansen's term of office ———sss—S—s—~<C~S~S~C~SCSC
Description of wok Assigned primarily to criminal division for preparation of

32239471 Page 26 vo GOvRInEST eats

pleadings, briefs and corresponde Also substituted for receptioni
and on telephone “desk. _ al

31, REFERENC!

List three persons who are NOT related. to you and who have delinite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which.
- Do-NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under Items 29 and 30,

FULT. NAME ee St ney BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION
Byron L. Fisher, Esq. | Fabiag Ten =
y > q Bea & fle ejenin Attorney
David Hinds . 763 an Ave 7 blishi
Redwood City, “CA 94163 publishing
Robert L. Hartest ~|60l Colorado SEreet £89. UE
a Austin, TX 7870 hance Pepe yu
CERTIFICATION a SIGNATURE (Sign in ik) DATE SIGNED
Se ete foarrn| 919176
best af mw knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.



Congress of he Anited States a i

Employment Information Form

Ti Lowest ace
3 137666

15. Number of dependents other
than self
ie}

je annual salary

1, Name (Last, First, Middle) CO Me. 35 Miss 0) Mrs. | 10. Birth date (Mfonth, Day, Ye
] and Addzess (Nanzher, Servet, City, State, and ZIP Code)

Larson, Billie Gay
514 Sixth St. SE Apt. A
~_ Washington, D.C. 20003

_ | 5 veer © tnches

2. Hon hone (ine! g Area Code) | 3. Other phone (incl Ares, Code 13, Are you 2 United States ci

M0a-5Y7- 3049 |.20.9 -gIS-10b :

4. Kind of Job you are applving fo FEC ECR AAI LE |

secretarial, research, clerk BS Tying
- Co be considered for

wpm. Shorthand wpm.
tions involving sybing or shorthand, anplicants

S. Tem of Employment: 2 Full Time O Summer

a 5 ia undergo fess administered either by the Placement Offes 07 by the U :
SS cullen sess2|aeSTICSRIGTEET ‘Wye Ne Cie Seats Commision the Later it wed, acech Notice of Rating :

ne cuploynert? EL Yes CRN Ty Oe, cecpeat tone)
abe? 9-20-76 [D] Computer: Terminal Operator, O) Programmer, £) Sy:

9. Are you presently employed by the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of Represea Gtate expertise with specific systems, languages, and components.)
tives, or other office of the Congcess? [] Yes OX No

7. Will you accept part
8. When will you be av:

is Analyst

1p. List sligible ratings attained on U.S. Civit Secvice Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

20. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months? Mi Yes _ 6 + O No
Course emphasis: OX Academic, Business, 1 Other (specifyy Gebate, Journa’ SAiy" drama wewssy crave couriirio

Jor example, business, vocational, arrsed forces, or trade). Give for each the narae end location of school, dates attended, subjects
studizds number of classroom hours of instruction per week, certificates, and any pertinent data.

Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company (one week seminar, spring '75)
Grand Rapids, Michigan

21.

E E ae Grade-Point | Rank
| 22. A, Name and location. (City and State) of COURSES STUDIED | CREDITS COMPLETED | vere on
| Siilenes or universities attended. Nojor [Minor Semener 4.0 Scale |
| University of Utah hist. |phil. [2.7 |

~ CREDITS COMPLETED} : =

B. Chief undergraduate college subjects Semi Quarter C. Chief graduate college subjects

7 Gihisvements and awards, (Provide all jeholusic achievements and honors and show participation in extracurricular, citie, commu
ah, ang in, Drojestignal and seleplife societies.)

ee s * . .
‘Awarded scholarship to University of Utah based on academic achieve-
-ment and extracurricular activities. . Current membership in Sierra

Club_and. Common Cause.
23. Other hinguages. (Show proficiency in speaking, writing, end reading.) | 24, Dates of military service, if any. From: To:
read some French and Spanish Branch; NA Rack: Serial No.:

‘Answer the following questions. (If you answer "Yes" 40 any of these questions, give all pertinent details in lem 28:).. yes [ NO

and similar

ted of any offense against the law or forfeited collateral or are you now under charges for 3:

25. Have you been cons ;
. cdjudiccted in

(Bini eh afc plaltions and ary ofense ‘orem Prior 10 your 21 birthday which was firlly
26, White in the military
27, Does the U.S. Goventa

Uf your answer is "Yen? list in Item 28 for each relative: UW) full name:

tharged under other than honorable conditions?.

ervice, were you convicted by general court-martial or di

employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood or masriage) ?
[2) relationship: and (3) department,

ney. or of

28, Space for detailed answers, Indicate Ttem number to which answers apply. Pebvicd Do Not Write In This Block —
Ten No] 27 Ver 2e Z TEST RESULTS
Nancy L. Larson TYPING: an / sa W.P.M. ON A 5 MINUTE TEST
sister s :
Office of Guam C12 we, 7 errors)
Federal Building
San Francisco, CA SHORTHAND: 60 wem. on a3 minute 7
OTHER TEST
SCORES: 7
| veriteo py: APU fi

ees

| MAILING ADDRESS: Joiny COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
| NW 68261 OFFICE OF PLACEMENT AND OFFICE MANAGEMENT

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20315,
12239471 Page 27

Docl



| NW

| Docld:

8261 :
39939471 Page 28

Describe Employment Experience On This Form.

(A is not a substitute for this form and will not be made a part of the
application, if more than 2 pages.)

. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During

‘The Last Three Years.

Name of Employer Dates.

Salary Position and Duties

3, FULL-TIME Employment, (List Most Recent Exp

erience First.)

Dates of ciaployment (month, year)
rom 3/75 To PRESENT

gt tle of posion ‘Annual §slary

Supervisor 650.

Starting &

MO » - present § 810.

Name of immediate supervisor

Tom Edwards

"| Naine of employer (firm, organization, ofc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Lira aueg Insurance Company

'd Phone No., if knowa = T400-

Area Code

100 Wiget Lane
te cA

| Walnu Cree
joyment?

i ve Ly) Ne

Description of work

Dixected contract and Ticensing activities between Co. and

fits agents in 12 western states.

Developed new Filing and record keep-

ing systems; wrote department manual.

“Supervised 5..

Dates of employment (month, year)

Tem 5472

2/73

To

Exact title of position

Annual gy
Executive Secretary

mo.

600.
8
caving $0292

[Name of immediate supervisor
Harold Kramer, President
‘Area Code and PhoneNo., ifknowa 419/692-4500 |

Name of employer (frm, organization, ete.) and address (jaclading ZIP Code, if known)

Celestial Arts Publising
ast Adrjan Road, .
nut Cree

moved from San Bruno

Reason for leaving,

to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)

| Desc in of work =H, res

dled all correspondence for President/owner.

Responsible

“for distribution of new -products and product info. to national mktg.

staff.

Reviewed material submitted for pu

consideration.

Dates of employment (month, year)

trom 4/70 To 6/71

Exact title of position Annual Salary
farting §.

435.
—_ Secretary 500.

Name of immediate supervisor

GEE Peodtard

‘Area Code and Phone No., if known

ZR’ Code, if kno)
Mm.

ne eyp pay Soma (ena ean Claw: a
aa Continental Bank Building
Salt Lake City, Utah :

“noved" from Utaly to California

Description of work

Prepared legal documents and correspondence for senior partne

Responsible for ordering all office

ipplies used by staff of 2

Dates of employment (month, year)

+ 1/65

Frosn.

1.69

To

Exact title of position

Legal Secret.

Name of immediate supervisor

ttorney General Phil L. Hansen QEFLce.

c,) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
pe bee Attorney General
ke Gity, Uta

Name of employer (firm, orf

‘Area Code and Phone No.,

end of Mr.

Reason for leaving

"Hansen's term of office

Description of work

“Assigned primarily to cr

division for preparation of

pleadings, briefs and correspondence.

substituted for receptioni

A

and on telephone desk.

31, REFERENCES:
you are apply:

Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed w

List three: persons who are NOT related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which

nder Items 29 and 30.

ruun NaN [TRS nas cumengponss [muss on occuratiow
Byron L. Fisher, Esq. a Bee Attorney q
| David Hinds ‘763 Sixth Ave a
Redwood Citys “CA 94163 publishing
Robert L. Hartest 601” Rpoleraco gsoreee
Me Austin, 1 aes ggetibee Yy,
. Austin’
CERTIFICATION SIGNATURE (Sign in eA DATE St
sonny atone ele adc Cerarn| 9/13/76
ect nf mu tnowledge and belief, and ate made in good faith.

orrice M36 0-7



wp: Congress of the Anited States ere

Employment Information Form

1, Name (Lan, Fivst, Middtey [ Me. XJ Miss [J Mrs,| 10. Birth date (Alouth, Day, Year) 14, Lowest acceptable annual salary
and Address (Number, Sircet, City, State, and ZIP Code) 5-19-44

Larson, Billie Gay Ross en
S514 Sixth St. SE Apt. A | Utah than self
Washington,

N

lependents other

mi, D. C. 20003

16. Weight

110

2. Home phone (inelading Area Code) 13. Ave you a United States

02-57-3094 | 20.9 GIS -cI906 re oN

4 Kind of oh you ge pig fo ISR EUR WAS Pails
secretarial, research, clerk 0% typing wpm. py Shorthand - 80

(Co be considered for positions involving tybing or shorthand, opp

undergo tests dlniniscred either by the Placement Office or by the U.
Cis Segsice Commission. If the later ty wsed, attach Notice of
within the part 1? months.)

equipment (specify) —

5. Tern of Employment: 2) Full Time () Summer

6. Will you accept temporary employment? Byes ONo
employinent? DD ¥e (XNo
8. When will you be available? - 9-20-76

9. Are you preseatly employed by the U.S. Seaate, the U.S. House of Represeats-
tives, or ol office of the Congress? [] Yes OX No

7. Will you accept part

water: (] Terminal Operator, C} Programmer, OS:
(State expertise with specific systems, languages, and components.)

res Analyst

19, List eligible ratings attained on U.S. Civil Service Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings.

5/68

next nine months? DE Yes saz 0 No _
debate, journaTi@ay® drama Mailer caer coun)

20. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate withi

Course emphasis: OF Academic, 1) Business,

21. Training schools attended (for example, bi wional, armed forces, oF trad: for each the nasne and ueation of school, dates atte
studied, sumber of classroom hours of ‘inst ‘week, certiticgtes, and an; nat data,
Supervisory Development Seminar
Foremost Insurance Company (one week seminar, spring '75)
Grand Rapids, Michigan
= Raak
22. A, Name and location (City and State) of Cure SONE ee ie
A kees ant locaton, (Ci Witor[~Rinor | class
University of Utah hist. [phil.
CREDITS CC CREDITS COMPLETED
B, Chief undergraduate college subjects Semester C. Chief graduate college subjects Semester | Quarter

awards, (Pros
i ind scivgtifie societies.) . : . :
scholarship to University of Utah based on academic achieve-
“ment and extracurricular activities. Current membership in Sierra

Club_and.Common Cause.

Donors and show partic

om in extracurricular, civic, exramunity and si

23. Other languages. (Show proficizney in speking, writing, and reading.) 24. Dates of military service, if any. To:

read some French and Spanish Branch: ore

‘Aniwer the following questions. (If you answer “Yes” to any of these questions, give all pertinent details in Mer: 28:) YES | NO
t 25. of any offense against the law or forfeited collateral or are you mow under charges for any offense against the Jaw?
| ions and ny offense cor 3 3 : x

itted prior to your ist birthday whi My cdjredrcated in jx

26, White in the military
27. Does the U.S. Govenment employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood or macriage) ?
(Uf your answer is "¥en," Uist in Wem. 28 for eat

were you convicted by general court-martial or discharged under other than honorable

relative: (1) futl name; (2) relationships and (3) department, agency, or ofice.)

28, Space for detailed answers, Indicate Rem number to which answers apply. Do Not Write In This Block
Trea Now| 27 1 TEST RESULTS
Nancy L. Larson o/c W.P.M. ON A 5 MINUTE TEST
sister 7
Office of Guam C22 _wem., 7 errors)
Federal Building
San Francisco, CA SHORTHAND: —& O___ w.p.M. ON A 3 MINUTE TEST
OTHER TEST :
SCORES:
verified py: A? & fi
OMA eC Ne eS sor eee ee ON Cone Ben ManneemeneoNe
NW 68261 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20315.

Docld:32239471 Page 29


=. Describe Employment Experience On ‘This

not a substitute for this form and will not be made a part of the
application, if more than 2 pages.)

29. PART-TIME And SUMMER Employment During The Last Three Years.

of Employer Dates Salary Position and Duties

30. FULL-TIME Employment. (List Most Recent Experience First.)

Dites of employment (month, year) ie oh pasion Aamal ghey 650.
a upervisor starting $j ———
rom 3/75 ‘to rresmeranes6 /75]. "4P MO pong BL0-
a Name of immediate supervisor aa ‘Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (iueluding ZIP Code, if known)
Tom Edwards Foremost Insurance Company

100 Wiget Lane
“Dies Gode and Phone Now it aown 457 934= 1400~| Walnut@Creek, CA

May inguity be made

‘our preseat employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? Yes [J] No

ies agents in 12 west x s-__De ed 1

states. Developed new Filing and Fecord { keep-
ing systems; wrote department manual. — Supervised 5.

5 : Dates of employment (month, year) ‘Exact title of position ‘Annual Salacy 600
: es OUNs
Pe ore DLT wg 2/73 Executive Secretary |mo. 2625.
Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Harold Kramer, President Celestial Arts dene
ie , a3trh?e Adrian Road,

Fawn 415/692-4500~ nut Cree

Rasa forlesing moved from San Bruno to Moraga (approx. 35 miles from office)
Desctintion of wok Handled all correspondence for President/owner. Responsible |
for distribution of new products and product info. to national mkt tg.
staff. Reviewed material submitted for pub. consideration.

‘Area Code and Phone Ne

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position ‘Annual Salary 435.

Nom 170 vo O/71 Legal Secretary mo.

Name of immediate supenisor pa & ctenaenan™ (isa Ey ZI Code, if
pabran' &°ctendearn aba ’

ken Sea Sed) Stoddard . 800 Continental ae Building

Asca Code and Phone No., if known 7] Salt Lake City, Utah

wwoved from Utah to Califormia 7
Prepared legal docum

ents and correspondence for senior partne

ble for ordering all e supplies used by staff of 22.
Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Annual Salary t 385.
© Veom L/65 tr 1-69 Legal Secretary 10 lesvng 4237
Name of immediate sopervisor ~ [Name of pee Gon. or 9 eat Gnclading ZIP Code, if known)

Attorney General Phil L. Hansen ge FEC fa

pt obey Atporpey General

‘Area Code and Phone No., if keown
Reson forleavieg end of Mr. Hansen's term of office
Descristion of wok ASSigned pri ity to _crimin ivision for preparation of
pleadings, briefs and correspondence. tuted for receptioni
| and on telephone desk.

31, REFERENCES? List three persons who are NOT telated to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which
you are applying. Do NOT repeat names of supervisors listed under lems 29 and 30.

aoe PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS

(Number, City, State, and ZIP Code) BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION
isher, Esq. Fabday & Clengenin Attorney
“David Hinds ~ | 763 Sixth Ave. “publ isbi
Redwood City, CA 94163 publis ey,
| Robert Ly Hartesty 601 gotorade gepreee so.
Austin, et
peRags ee
CERTIFICATION Sey SEGRE (Sign in in) DATE SIGS
J CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this f{sm
and in any attachment are true, comple’ sect to the 9/13/76
ia NS AF Unentedse an hls, stare de inno ath oar|
NW 68261 , . |
Docld!32239471 Page 30 U.S. COVERNAIERT PRINTING OFFICE f19%6 0 rn ¥

