# docid-32332866

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: ' FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10164

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2940-42

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/23/1958

'PAGES:

29

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

Teleased under the John f. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992(44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

Guard, Canton, Ohio, 10/14/58;TGP; ITSP," (PG file 52-1687)

stolen Government weapons

to Cuban Rebels);

Osage, w.Va.,

11/10/58; INFO CONCERNING;

BAKER;

et al; ELECTION LAWS," (PG file 56-89).

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by the

Pittsburgh office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA Investigation:

PG ,573-C, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE

brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, Younger

brother of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is presently being

utilized for the general

coverage of the Red Eagle

Club and its visitors.

Miss FRANCES PRIAM, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office, who

1s well acquainted

with most of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums

and who was formerly employed as a waitress in the Red

Eagle Club, once known as the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh.

She still visits this

establishment and comes in constant contact with MIKE

GENOVESE and other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering

element in her role as a medium-priced prostitute. PRIAM

is presently traveling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow of

co-owner of EZZARD CHARLES, former World's

heavyweight boxing champion.

She is presently being

utilized for the coverage of the GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON

interests.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a PCI who is presently very active

in Pittsburgh numbers operations and who was arrested

during the month of August, 1958,

in connection with his

operation.

MESSER is intimately

acquainted with many

Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers through association

with them when they began their racket careers.

He is

presently being utilized for coverage of the GENOVESE-

NELSON interests and is also contributing information

regarding the VOLPE brothers, present Pittsburgh top

hoodlums who are close associates of GENOVESE and LA ROCCA.

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA; a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office presently

-A-

COVER PAGE

+0100-10101

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

engaged in racket activity in the City of Pittsburgh

who is being utilized for general coverage of lottery

and numbers operations in the Pittsburgh area.

HENRY J: BARBER;

a PCI of the Pittsburgh office who

is part owner of the notorious gambling establishment

at Chester, W. Va., known as Club 30, who is being

utilized for information concerning the club and the

interest in i't of Pittsburgh hoodlums associated with

both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

Miss MARIAN FOGEL, a PCI of the Pittsburgh office.

who is being utilized for information concerning

Pittsburgh prostitution activities and as a check on

the activities of Miss FRANCES PRIAM.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now

Vice President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loar

Department, Pittsburgh, who is being utilized for his.

knowledge of

' the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh from

which he can obtain information regarding bank loans

made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK is also familiar

with the

activities of several of Pittsburgh's top

hoodlums, particularly those of LA ROCCA, from having

worked on criminal matters for many years in the city of

Pittsburgh.

HERMAN ISRAEL, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is being utilized for information concerning

the MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, Pa., and who

is also furnishing information regarding tie-ups

with

the GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

WILLIAM A. DOBKIN, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who was extremely helpful to Pittsburgh Agents

during the investigation of the RALPH KINER extortion

investigation several years ago and whose brother-in-law,

NORMAN FARBER, 1s a member of the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal Informant coverage, the PCIS

under development are being contacted on a continuing and regular

basis so that information obtained from them may be used on a

day-to-day basis in connection with spot surveillances of the

-B-

COVER PAGE

80100-1018

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

establishments frequented by the subject when he is in the

Pittsburgh vicinity.

The identity of the anonymous informant calling himself "TIGER".

s still being sought so that he may be contacted personally an

rill no longer have to depend on the written word for th

furnishing of his racket information to the Pittsburgh Office.

It is anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice President of the

Real Estate Department of the Potter

Bank and Trust company

in Pittsburgh, will keep the Pittsburgh Office advised of any

new developments concerning the proposed construction of a

motel financed by MIKE GENOVESE and ARTHUR D. NELSON in the

Monroeville, Pa., vicinity which would undoubtedly have to have

the approval and overall financial backing of SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA.

It Is further anticipated that former Pittsburgh top hoodlum,

SAMUEL NATHANIEL LEVINE, who is now a PCI for the Pittsburgh

Office and who 1s well acquainted with LA ROCCA, will be

contacted at regular intervals so that a more complete picture

of the racketeering activities in the City of Pittsburgh may

be obtained. It should be noted that contacts with LEVINE $O

date have achieved the latter objective to a degree but have

not been productive. in furnishing information.concerning LA ROCCA.

LEADS

BALTIMORE, JACKSONVILLE; MIAMI AND PHILADELPHIA - INFORMATION

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Baltimore

office inasmuch as MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, the personal accountant

ana close associate of the subject, makes his permanent

residencè in that city.

Although the Baltimore Office has

temporarily given up contacting GOLDBERG because of his critical

Illness, It is felt that he may be contacted at a future date.

It should be noted that LA ROCCA OWeS GOLDBERG more than

$5,000 at present and thet if his illness does prove to be

fatal, it is a foregone conclusion that LA ROCCA will travel

to Baltimore to see the GoLDBERG family.

one copy of this report is being furnished to the Jacksonville

and Miami Offices for information purposes because of allegations

made by the wife of LA ROCCA and Pittsburgh informants concerning

-C-

COVER PAGE

#+100-808886

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-204 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

File Number:

Title:

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

DEC 2 3 1958

PG 92-226

Bufile 92-2940

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

Office: PITTSBURGH

FK Law 10(a)2

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Wife of LA ROCCA is confined at Mercy Hospital, PIttsburgh,

pa., following surgery on 11/21/58 which was performed

by same physician who operated on SAMUEL MANNARINO, Pittsburgh

top hoodlum, during May, 1958. Associates and informants

indicate that LA ROCCA has not returned to Pittsburgh vicinity

and has ostensibly trusted his business and personal affairs

to JOHN J. CONTI, a cousin and MIKE GENOVESE, Pittsburgh ano

national

top. hoodlum.

<

his partner at l

Automatic Carwash in Pittsburgh, received

subpoenas to appear before Grand Inquest for the

to testify and give evidence

regarding alleged violation of numerous sections and titles,

U.S. Code.

Possibility that LA ROCCA and GABRIEL MANNARINO,

Pittsburgh and national top hoodlums, are hiding at hunting

lodge in Pennsylvania section near Maryland border being

explored. Information relating to legitimate business

operations of LA ROCCA set forth.

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION

OF SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS ARREST FOR

CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P-

52-1940-42

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of any lined. e it the preparty f the Fl, and is a loan to rout al/a

it and /or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency. CO151%1167-7460-153 apo

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

Allegheny County.

Records in this regard were reviewed

by THOMAS MC QUAIDE and PATRICK MC CORMICK; Identification

Officers for the Pittsburgh Police Department and Allegheny

County Detective Bureau, respectively.

Miss ALYCE TAFELSKI, Clerk,

Pittsburgh Credit Bureau, Inc.,

635 Smithfield Street;

Pittsburgh, Pa., advisea on October 17.

1958, that she has a record for JAMES CEFALO and his wife.

ISABELLE dated February 15, 1956, at which time he lived

at 59 Cheyenne Drive, Pittsburgh 5, Pa.,

and was buying his

own home.

The report stated that he had lived at this address

for two years and had formerly resided at 829 Inwood Street

and at 7139 Fleury way, both Pittsburgh:

He was listed as

being from 38 to 40 years of age in 1956, and had two children

at that time. His employment was shown as that of a driver

for Continental Transportation Lines at McKees Rocks, Pa.,

since 1935.

Former employments were shown as Conte Brothers

and Kramer

Brothers. It was also reflected thathis credit

record was satisfactory and that he had a satisfactory checking

account at the Crafton Branch of the Peoples First National

Bank.

The "Pittsburgh Post-Gazette" carried an article in its

October 23, 1950, issue which indicated that JOSEPH WOLPE,

a close associate

VINELIS.

were indicted by the Allegheny County Grand Jury

on October 22, 1958, at Pittsburgh, for attempting to bribe

a juror in the Katz-Stupak Racket Trial. The article

stated that

both were charged with conspiring to commit

"embracery" which the paper defined as the legal term for

approaching a juror and solicitation to commit embracery.

The article described VOLPE as the owner of the Rainbow Gardens

at Mckeesport, Pa., and "youngest member of the notorious

Volpe clan."

On November 26, 1958, ALBERT DIMEOLO, United States Marshal

for the western District of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, aavised

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE that he had just recezvea subpoenas to be

servea to

and his partner,

ordering them to appear before the Grand Inquest

for the

JEK Law 10(a)2

-11-

#3-504801401492

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 6

---

## Page 7

EK Law 10(a12

PG 92-226

at 9:45 AM on

to testify and

give evidence in regard to an alleged violation of the following

sections of the United States Code:

Sections 371, 1406, Title 18, United States dode

Sections 174,

Title 21,

United States Code

Section 7237 (A and B), Title

26, United States Code

He advised that the subpoenas were signed by

He stated that the

subpoenas would be served on that date and that he would notify

the Pittsburgh Office

If any problems arose.

He also advised

that a subpoena was being issued to be served at the same time

tol

for his appearance before..thel

session of the Federal Grand Jury as requested by HUBERT

1.

TEITELBAUM, United States Attorney, Western District of

Pennsylvania, at Pittsburgh.

On October 29, 1958, the Philadelphia Officewas advised that

I-4, who has furnished considerable reliable information concern-

the legitimate enterprises of the MANNARINO brothers and

particularly information concerning real estate transactions

involving SAMUEL MANNARINO, had advised during February, +950,

that SAMUEL MANNARINO, during the early portion of 195%, mentioned

that he had purchased

a hunting lodge surrounded by 200 acres

of. land. At that time the informant understood MANNARINO to

extensive investigation thereafter was conducted

the hunting lodge since several sources in the Pittsburgh

vicinity belleve the lodge would be an excellent hide-out for

TABRIEL MANNARINO and his close friend, SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA, who disappeared from the Pittsburgh vicinity durine

December, 1957, to

]with subpoenas to

appear before

• a Federal Grand Jury in the

inquiring into the significance of the

The Philadelphia Office was further advised that the two afore-

mentioned top national hoodlums were also being sought by Senator.

JOHN MC CLELIAN, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee

-12-

9224421-46497088

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-226

on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Fields.

In connection with the aforementioned efforts to identify

the location of the hunting lodge, the informant originally

Purishing this information, learned on tober lin and life-

through JACK KRUPA, a New Kensington,

long friend and hunting companion of

the MANNARINO brothers,

that SAMUEL MANNARINO's hunting lodge is not locatea in

Somerset County, Pa., but is actually a twenty-room farm house

generally referred to as a hunting lodge, surrounded by approx-

imately 200 acres of densley wooded land

the Pennsylvania-Maryland border, approximately a fifteen minute

drive by automobile from Hagerstown, Maryland. The informant

recalled that he had been in the office of SAMUEL MANNARINO

during December, 1957, when the press ana radio carried

the first accounts of

the fact that GABRIEL MANNARINO had been

called before the Federal Grand Jury in New York. He stated

that shortly thereafter SAMUEL MANNARINO received a telephone

call from GABRIEL MANNARINO in his presence and hurriedly

told him

"they are trying to serve you with a subpoena. Take

off for the brush."

The informant stated that it seemed

logical to him that if SAM MANNARINO's remarks were interpreted

IIterally his advice could have been his subtle way of telling

his brother to proceed to the hunting lodge.

The aforementioned informant said that according to his

source of information, the general area surrounding the

lodge is thickly populated with whiskey stills, and that local

game wardens are reluctant to enter the area because some of

them have been mistaken for Agents of the Alcohol and Tobacco

Tax Unit and have been fired upon by the moonshiners.

The Philadelphia Office was requested, through the Recorder

of Deeds for Franklin County, Pa., to attempt to identify

the aforementioned lodge and to display photographs of

MANNARINO and LA ROCCA at Waynesboro, Pa., and vicinity near

the Maryland border to game wardens, rellable police officers,

and other sources to locate the hunting lodge and determine

whether MANNARINO and LA ROCCA are hiding out in that locality

or have been there in the past six to ten months.

-13-

20101-801851

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

The New York Office advised on November 20, 1958, in reply

to a request to interview FRANK JOSEPH VALENTI, who is confined

to the New York City Civil Jail, that the New York Office believes

it inadvisable to conduct such

an Interview inasmuch as there

is no indication that he would be willing to cooperate with

the law enforcement officers at this time. It was further

noted that there is no indication that he could be interviewed

with full security and that his interview might be subjected

to public notice. It was also advised that the activities

of those confined are being very closely followed by the New

York State Crime Commission, and that former Special Agent

JOSEPH MILENKY; Chief Investigator for that body, is advising

the New York Office of pertinent developments.

The Baltimore Office advised on November 17, 1958, that Mrs.

LILLIAN COHEN, 3701 Clarinth Road, Baltimore, Maryland, advised

that she is the sister of MAX GOLDBERG, thes personal accountant

fOr LA ROCCA, and that she is employed

as a secretary in his

office.

She advised that GODDBERG is critically ill in the

New Kensington General Hospital and is suffering from an ulcerated

colon and other complications. She advised that doctors have

said that this illness could be fatal and if not, will cause

GOLDBERG to be incapacitated for some time. She

she was certain that LA ROCCA had not contacted GOLDBERG or

any of the members of his staff in the recent past and that

if he does so, she will immediately contact the Baltimore Office

of the FBI.

no, one win ocar

stated that

C. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIRS

I-5, who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

that he has been unable to develop any information concerning

the present whereabouts of LA ROCCA.

He stated that LA ROCCA's

associates have been very secretive

of late, but that he has

an idea that LA ROCCA and GABRIEL MANNARINO

may again be in warren,

Ohio.

He again surmised that they had been hidden in the past

by CHARLIE MURGIE of

Warren, Ohio, and that MURGIE had taken

them to Florida. He stated

that he had reason to believe that

they were staying close to home as he had learned that the wife

Of LA ROCCA is going to have an operation soon.

-14-

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 9

---

## Page 10

EK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

service to

He advised that the

first is a

subpoena for the appearance of

before the Federal

Grand Jury for thel

I to testify

and give evidence in regard to an alleged violation of

Tand that the second

is a subpoena. for the appearance of LA ROCCA before the U.S.

Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor

or Management Field. He again stated that the dates for

these appearances have still not been set and that he

cannot do anything further regarding them until LA ROCCA

returns to Pittsburgh or is located in some other jurisdiction.

He advised that he will notify the Pittsburgh Office in the

event he should learn anything regarding LA ROCCA in this

regard.

Surveillances Conducted Relating to this Investigation

Other than those surveillances conducted at Mercy Hospital,

Pittsburgh, which have

already been

set forth

spot surveillances

were made on October 24; November 3, 7, 24, 28; and December

10, 1950, at 900 West Ingomar Road, Ingomar, and at 12 McCandless

Street, Flusburgh. Nothing of interest to this investigation

was observed during these spot surveillances.

Other Matters of a Miscellaneous Nature

"The Pittsburgh Press" carried a

front page article in its

October 28, 1958, Issue

Chauffeur of Mannarino. "entitled,

"Probe Spotlight on

The article stated that a new Ken-

man named THOMAS "SONNY" CIANCUTTI spent sometime

on October 28, 1958, with the Federal Grand Jury at Pittsburgh.

The article stated that there was speculation that the Grand

racket boss GABRIEL "KELIY" MANNARINO, where MANWARINO 1s

Jury was asking CIANCUTTI,

be the chauffeur of

presently hiding.

It said. "KELLY" MANNARINO,, had been ducking

process servers with

amazing success for several months since

New York authorities started investigating the "crime convention"

which MANNARINO attended at Apalachin. The paper said that

another man testifying before the Federal Grand Jury on

October 28, 1950, was JOHN FONTANA, convicted of vote fraud in

1954 and the reputed operator of New Kensington's Barbout game.

It should be noted that FONTANA is a close associate of MIKE

-20-

92-2970843 140a2)

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 10

---

## Page 11

11.

PG 92-226

INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 is LOUIS J. REIZENSTEIN, Manager, Washington Trust Office

of the Western Pennsylvania National Bank, who was contacted

on 11/25/58 by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE and requested that his

identity be concealed.

r-2 1s H. W. GLENN; Postal Inspector,

burgh, who was

and who has requested that his identity be concealed.

eques to that it on y

U.S. Post Office, Pitts-

contacted on 11/24/58 by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

T-3 IS WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone Company

of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

on 11/29/58 and

who has requested that his identity be

concealed.

T-4 is PG-545-C who was contacted on 10/28/58 by SA RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE.

T-5 is an anonymous informant who on 6/16/58 contacted Assistant

Attorney General D. MALCOLM ANDERSON at the U.S. Department

of Justice, washington, DsC., by letter, offering to

furnish information to him regarding the activities of

Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers.

On that date he

suggested

that an insert be placed in the personal column

of the "Pittsburgh Press"

referring to him as "TIGER"

and

furnishing an address where he could write to Mr. ANDERSON

personally. A post office box has been rented by the

Pittsburgh FBI Office and numerous letters regarding the

activities of Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers have

been received to date.

No positive identification of

"TIGER" has ever been made.

I-6 1s GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a Potential Criminal Informant of

the Pittburgh Office, who was contacted on 11/25/58 by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

T-7 1s MISs AGNES ULICNY, Clerk, Dun and Bradstreet, Center

Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pal, who was contacted on 10/16/58 by

IC GEORGE DIPPOLD and who requested that her identity be

concealed.

I-8 1S MISS FRANCES PRIAM, A PotentioCriminal Informant of

the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted on 11/7/58 by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

-23-

10108-18180

NW 68262 Docld:32332866 Page 11

---

