7 ennedy Assassination
“6. ecards Collection Act of
oD 992 [44 USC 2107 Note).

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10345
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995.
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 17

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 8

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.
Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10345

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
| FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

| DATE : 12/07/76
PAGES : 32
SUBJECTS :
HSCA,. ADMINISTRATION
FALLIS, STEPHEN J.

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA

: COMMENTS :
Box #:1.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 2



Fa a a ee a a) ee

FAL 41S, S. we eee OFFICE OF THE cLerK

oF Einpioyes U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES : -; Us| BALANCE BrouGtiT —* is

FORWARD FROM :

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD | se iicicdlaciadcat

Address a o 97 7
Addries: secre naraesnsr riternnesea YEAR :
ANNUAL LEAVE
i ‘ ete 72s "oe? CATEGORY : : ~ :
i i 10 i : ieee j
Pie eae Position Title : : ee : : 5 ‘
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE 5
: : 5 im ACCRUED AVAILABLE useo Laps
Level Step 2.07 AT CLOSE
i : THIS MONTH THIS MONTH THIS MONTH OF Gost
. DAY OF MONTH Annual.) Sick | Anaual Sick Annual | Sick Annual Sick.
sey Ty 8] 9 [separ [se | 13] ia] to [a6] Tr] ts [19] 20] 21] 22] 28] 24 [2 [26] a7 [es] 2] ao] ai] Leave | Leave | - Leave Leave | Leave | Leave | Leave Leave
J Maced cR . oa ion oa

yaural|

+
N
LBS

=

7
|
|
i

€
Els

RAR IS APR wl] s
NUNN oy Stl ces |S

/
/
i
/
/
(
)

NOW

Dec. | | | fede

= 0.5 day annual leave. : ‘ . CERTIFIED CORRECT:

= 1.0 day annual leave . j °

= 0.5. day sick leave

or [K]= 1.0 day sick leave mL vii 1) 7 Employee's Signature Dote ° Chief's Signature Date
: (If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

2)
p=)
za)
C3] -
Ea = 0.5 day administrative leave ny : i ‘ re : ete
[a]
a
u

or l= 1.0 day: administrative leave : : : Approved: eon ae : ie
Clerk of the House Date
= 0.5 day unauthorized absence : . : ; ee
: Ae This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
or Ye = 1.0 day unauthorized absence . with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder,

=/0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

EXHIBIT I. :

PNW 68261
|] Docld:32243311 Page 3 {



MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director
DATE: August 25, 1977

RE: Resignations of Fallis, Brown and Mordana

Steve Fallis has resigned effective Monday,

September 12, 1977. (Laat ag of rok afd fos Le Vous Ph2_

Claire Brown has cs effective Fradesag,

September 20, 1977. Chast dig fant Abu A.

Sari Mordana has resigned effective Monday,
September 12, 1977 (Kat aD ae P )
A/lis

The aboye dated are the last dates through which,

including vacation, they should be paid.

law 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 4 f * 7

wre



-. PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION: FORM: =.°~
|

Please Use: Typewriter : US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES on this. form’ must be: initialed: by the

or Ballpoint Pen) authorizing official.) ~

To the Clerk. of the House. of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name.(First-Middle*Last). 00. ie. [ein Sa “Effective Date =. 8 ze

: _ Stephen d. Faliis 9/12/77
Reo Te Employee Social Security: Number 2 oe fare tit ee Type of Action: & a

Ci Appointment

Employing Office or Committee DB Selary Adjustment

Assassinations | [7] Termination (At'close of business-on’éffective date)

(IF type. of action isan Appointment.or Salary-Adjustment,:complete the following information’)

Position Title : : ~~ -Gross Annual Salary

Deputy Chief Counsel ; $36 2000

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item: below.) RL fess wee

1. [7 Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [5] Professional. a ee

465 of 25th

7

~ © 2.E] Special-or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. Congress: =» wo teint Seas

3. ( Joint Committee.

(IF Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__-.2---.__-- If applicable, Level

{Title if Member, District and State)

All appointments and: salary’ adjustments for employees under the House’ Classification Act and for Committee’ ein-*
ployees, except those ‘of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the: Budget, andthe Joint: Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration: .

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.__________

Sica : Copy for Initiating. Office or. Committee ts

tw 68261
! Docld:32243311 Page 5

————

‘ (Any. erasures, corrections, or:changes®*...~



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION : FORM
(Please Use Typewriters
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

3 U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1977~80—199,

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, correctio“s, or changes
on this form must be’ initialed by the
authorizing officiat™

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

‘Eitective Date

. Stephen James Fallis

WATT

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

arr 5 D

© Appojetment

Employing Office or Committee

ry Adjustment

Assassinations

‘ermination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, compjéte the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$36,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (1 Standing Committee: Staff-

2. [¥ Special or Select Committee: Aut!

Joint Committee.

CO Professional.

ployees, except thoge of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by tte Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $

NW 68261—

Docld:32243311 Page 6



~<OLL. AUTHORIZATION. FORM: — 55

(Please Use:Typewriter “U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. -- (Any erasures, corrections, or changes.

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 a el pe initialed bythe

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) we eee Effective Date

i Stephen dames Fallis . . BIT? \
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

D Appointment

is : Employing Office or Committee [gkSclary Adjustment
Assassinations =‘

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(Iftype of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary ;

$36,000

(If Committee Employee,-complete appropriate item below.)

1. CF Standing Committee: Staff-[7] Clerical-or [7] Professional.

2. [Xl Special or Select Committee: -Authcrity—H. Res.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

3

(If Employee of an Officer of the’ House;*complete item below.)

Position Number-.

f applicable, Level____. Step_2uo2.

V certify that: this authorization. ‘is. not. in<violation of “5 U.S.C,
relatives.

O(b);~-prohibiting” the “éemployment~of -.-

Bignoture of Ai

ra “Louis Stokes

Type or printname of Authorizing Official

Chairman

“All-appointments and-salary.adjustments.for-employees under-the House Classification’ Act-and? for Commi
5 ener except those of the: Committee on Appropriations;:thesCommittée: onthe Budget;and thé Joint ocean must.
. be approved-by.the'Committee: on House Administration: © se a hot a

APPROVED:.

¥@ on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: =. = ntiete: Ve ae e
Office Code |

3

Copy. for. Initieting Office or Committee

W 68261
locid:32243311 Page 7



~ PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM,

(Please Use Typewriter «
of Ballpoint Pen)::>

To the Clerk of.the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

= Washington; :D.C. 20515.

ti hi
\_/U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES \_/ {am crazies, corrections. chase

authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) -

Effective Date -

Stephen James Fallis

WAT?

Employee Social Security Number ~

Type of Action

pe

: Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

CO Appointment

58] Salary Adjustment

(D'Termination (At close of business on effective-date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following, information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

* $36,060
Z

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

2.

3.11 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

_ Position Number.

Special‘or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

of applicable, Level

1. [ Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or (1 Professional.

| certify that this authorization. is: not in Violation of 5°US.C. 3110{b}, prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Lowis Stokes

_ All-appointments. and salary adjustments foremployees ‘under the House. Clas.

ication: Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of tthe:Committee on, Appropriations, the Committee: on-the Budget, and-the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman,

‘Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

W 68261
locid:32243311 Page 8



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM c .

: (Please-Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 sutherilog official) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

: 5 Effective Date
Stephen James Fallis 4fVf/77

Employee Social Security Number ; Type of Action

(1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Cisotary Adjustment

Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary. Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$47,500

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [1] Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [1] Professional.

2. (4) Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [1] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) jee

Position Number__.

_.If applicable, Level

L-certify that ‘this outhorization is. not in violation of 5 U.S.C,,3T10(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. 7 a

(Signature of Authorizing Official

tokes

Louis $

All.appointments- and. salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees,. except. those: of the:Committeeon.Appropriations,.the Committee: on. the. Budget, and the Joint Committees, must»

be approved by:the Committee on.House Administration. :

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

=
6
=
=
<
{>
3
3
s.
<
o
ray
3

eros 0%5 Som ce
W 68261
ocid:32243311 Page 9



|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ULL

w+. 7) »(Please’ Use. Typewriter » US. HOUSE oF REPRESENTATIVES: °° << (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

Washington; D.C. 20515 . on this form. must be: initialed by the

or Ballpoint Pen) authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:.

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) wie > Effective: Date

Stephen James Fallis 277

Employee Social Security Number

g (C2 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee“ &) Salary Adjustment

Select Committee on Assassinations C Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Type of Action

(If type of action isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title ; Gross ‘Annual Salary

$22,140.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or [J Professional.

2. ©] Special or Select Committee: AuthorityH.Res1__: of _95 Congress,

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an-Officer of the House, complete item below...

Position Number.

|. certify that--this : authorization :is..not--in’ ‘violation -of 5 U.S.C: 3110(b), “prohibiting the employment. of
relatives.

Date 2/28/77 1°

{Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

_ Chairman

All-appointmentsrand: salary adjustments:for-employees”under-the: House: Classification“Act ‘and for Comimittee-e:
iployees, except-those of the.Gommittee-on-Appropriations; the Committee ‘onthe: Budget; :and the Joint*€ommittees; must®
be approved by the Committee .on:House-Adminisfration."¥/.2 ee we - wert

APPROVED:

Chairman,

Office of Finance-use-only: i Y
Office Code:

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee .

peck treated

W 68261 : -
locld:32243311 Page 10 f ve :


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Plédse-Use Typewriter
~~ "6r'Ballpoint Ren)

To the Clerk of.the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following’ payroll action:

/ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Wi (Any erasures, corrections, ‘or changes
Washington, D.C. 20515 :

‘on this form must be-initialed-by-the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Stephen J, Fallis ¢

Van

‘ © Employee Social Security Number ~

Type of Action

ara

D) Appointment +

Employing Office or Committee

9 Salary Adjustment: ad

: Select’ Comittee on Assassinations

(Termination (At close of business on effective date)

If type of aétion isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)
Pe ry Aa| 9

Position Title

| > Gross Annual Salary

$23,409,

\(f Committee-Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

e c

2.

Bai

» 3. [1] Joint Committee.

Position Number. _.|f applicable, Level

, relatives. :

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

1. L) Standing Committee: Staff-F] Clerical, or (] Professional. -

I certify that~this. authorization is: not in violation: of. 5.U.S.C. -3110(b), -prohibiting the employment of

|. All appointments and.salary adjustments for employees undér the House.Classification Act.and for Committee em-
~ ployees, except thosevof the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the-Budget, and: the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._

! .
| Office of Finance use only:
| Office Code.

] a
IW 68261 : —;
ocld:32243311 Page 11 i a |



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ram

(Please Use Typewriter US S. HOUSE .OF REPRESENTATIVES Q (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen “Washington, D.C.-20515 Le A initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: _

Employee! Name (First-Middle*Last) ; Effective Date

Stephen J. Fallis B : 12/7/76
Employee Social Security Number

1 Type of Action

XC Appointment

Employing Office or Committee C1 Salary Adjustment 7
Select Committee on Assassinations [LJ Termination (At closé of business on effective date) /

= {

. 1

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information,)

eZ

ti Position Title . Gross Annual Salary

Beputy Chief. Counsel : : $26,099 > . _ |

| (If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) ‘ . t

1. CJ Standing Committee: Staff-[) Clerical of [1 Professional. wpe

=

2. 1] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.1

| path es ; \v Jab !
: “or Soman a J fs a
|. 3. [J Joint Committee. ' ao V |

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Se

Resition Number_. _|f applicable, Level

vl certify. “thot. this authorization is not in violation of ‘5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. ~ .

5 > (Signature of Authorizing Official)

| i -9 . 9 downing, Chairman

- All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for’Committee em- |
ployees, except those of the.Committee'on-Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, ond the Joint Committees, most, yoy
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. 4 | \

{

|

|

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use oily: a \
‘Office Code _- ~ |

=
6
3
=
<=
>
By
5
¢.
<
4.
2°
Ss

W 68261 rn ae
locld:32243311 Page 12 i -


]

i

W 68261 -
locld:32243311 Page 13 . Fos ;

Cc O

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law |
mother niece sister-in-law |
son husband stepfather _
daughter wife stepmother.

+ brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister ~ mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister H

first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related L

‘I am related by the following relationship

“Signature of Employee

eases

we



‘NW 68261

STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212). 689-1272
Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child
Education

“Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y.

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau (April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975)
. Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System.
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office

155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in

New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967
United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern

Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

Docld:32243311 Page 14

(Nov. 1972 to present)

As Brooklyn-


Lectures and Speeches

| ‘nw 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 15

New York University Institute of Continuing eso E EEE
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - me
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974)

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the

Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.



STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street

| Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

|
Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child ee

Education
Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964
Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor

| 2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau(April 1975 to Pre:
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975

Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

i New York County District Attorneys Office
+ 155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in
New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

i United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 16



Lectures and Speeches

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - a
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974)

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the
Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.

‘NW 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 17.


STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child

Education
Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau(April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975
Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant* District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in
New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

‘NW 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 18


Lectures and Speeches

iN

‘NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 19

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - Seeeaaia
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively

Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974)

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the
Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.


3 yp Mun - or Bre ape 10/23/76 - 29M

333 East 23rd Street

Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010

October 12, 1976

212-689-1272 (Home telephone)
212-466-1250 (Business telephone)

Richard Sprague, Esq.

3 FE =p bt EE _
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103 a ph® pV’
iladeiphia, a.

Dear Mr. Sprague:

Thank you for calling me about a position as
your deputy on the staff of the Select Committee on
Assassinations. I anticipate that I will find the
Committee's work interesting and challenging.

I have prepared and enclosed a resume for
your consideration. I believe that you will find that
I am well qualified for the position by virtue of my
background and experience.

I look forward to meeting you personally to
further discuss the position and work of the Committee.

Very truly yours,

Stephen J. Fallis

Enclosure

‘NW 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 20


;

STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York,. New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

“Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child - we

Education
Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964 ,

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau(April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975
Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System.. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in
New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

"NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 21


Lectures and Speeches

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - =~
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974)

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the
Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.

NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 22



STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

| : Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child ao

Education
Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau(April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975)
Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

| Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
| Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in
New York County.

i Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

|
| NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 23



Lectures and Speeches

NW 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 24

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - we
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the
Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.


I
(
i
i

STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child

Education

Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y.

1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau (April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975)
.Staf£ Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System.
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

As Brooklyn-

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in

New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

Docld:32243311 Page 25


Lectures and Speeches

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers -

Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974)

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the

Police Department on. evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.

NW 68261
| Docld:32243311 Page 26


STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child - ——

Education
Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau(April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975)
.Staf£ Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N.Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in
New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 27


Lectures and Speeches

New York University Institute of Continuing proressronay
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - ~ oe
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974

National Institute on Crime “and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate. Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the
Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.

| ‘NW 68261
| Doctd:32243311 Page 28



STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street 7
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010

Phone (212) 689-1272

Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child ae wee
Education

Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment

Office of the Special State Prosecutor :
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau (April 1975 to Pres
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975)
Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
| to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in

| New York County.

|

|

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

NW 68261
Docld:32243311 Page 29



Lectures and Speeches

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers - ~ a
Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974)

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the

Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.

'NW 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 30



STEPHEN J. FALLIS

333 East 23rd Street
Apartment #2B

New York, New York 10010
Phone (212) 689-1272

Born: November 7, 1942
Married, one child : 2 wh gna

Education
Harvard Law School, LLB, June 1967

Columbia College, A.B., June 1964

Legal Employment.

Office of the Special State Prosecutor
2 World Trade Center, New York, N. Y. (Nov. 1972 to present)

Bureau Chief, Brooklyn-Staten Island Legal Bureau(April 1975 to Pre:
Bureau Chief, Allegations Bureau (June 1974 - April 1975)
Staff Attorney, Manhattan Bureau (November 1972 to June 1974)

The Office of the Special State Prosecutor was created in
September 1972 to investigate allegations of corruption in
the New York City Criminal Justice System. As Brooklyn-
Staten Island Bureau Chief, I supervise all. investigations
and trials of corruption cases in those counties.

New York County District Attorneys Office
155 Leonard Street, New York, N. Y.

Assistant District Attorney (September 1967 to November 1972)
Assigned to Homicide Bureau (March 1969 to November 1972)

While assigned to the Homicide Bureau I investigated, presented
to the Grand Jury and prosecuted numerous Homicide cases in
New York County.

Bar Admissions

New York State, Second Department - December 1967

United States District Court for the Southern and Eastern
| Districts of New York

United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit

‘NW 68261
| Docld:32243311 Page 31



|
|
|
|

Lectures and Speeches

New York University Institute of Continuing Professional
Education for Law Enforcement Officers -

Topic: The States Witness - Technique in Effectively
Testifying as a Witness for the Prosecution (March 1974

National Institute on Crime and Delinquency -
Topic: The Issue of Official Corruption in Enforcement
and Corrections (June 1974)

New York Police Department Advocate Seminar on Advocacy
and Trial Technique - Topic: Grand Jury Minutes and
Their Use (January 1975)

While a member of the Homicide Bureau of the District
Attorney's Office I lectured Forensic Units of the
Police Department on evidence gathering, and preservation
and trial techniques.

| nw 68261

Docld:32243311 Page 32

