o_4¢

|

@2-Ho- lbs 45

Serial Scope:

(F Ne 03x ZOU. 1S NR [Ody 20-121 OL
(212) WY IZ14 | ais WAS

Fel d ch 1e
john F. Kennedy

Assassination Records
‘cllection Act of 1992

asett:NW 65360
ate: 11-17-20



+ Legal Counsel ie -
lon) - yi - Mr. Daly - Enecs. (2) . vn OE”
; Na a He ari CONTAINED Plan. & Expl.

SUBJECT:

Pelltalaiy ir
ayo ene

SE aca @ q

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Vv Assoc. Dir,

Memorandum - Mr. Mintz - Encs. (2) :

Mr. Adams - Encs. (2)
- Mr. Bassett - Encs. (2)

Hee
'

Ext. Affairs —_
Mr. J. B. Adams DATE: 12/5/75 Files & Com. —

- Mr. Wannall - Encs. (2) "77
- Mr. Cregar - Encs. (2) |m si A
- Mr. Hotis - Encs. (2) As Ln

PERE

~s Spec. Inv. —__

SENSTUDY. 75 y
7 HEREIN I$ UNCLASSIFIED. Trainin
: Were Oball bo 97 =SROAME ext y Telechens Bs

‘i nha Director Sec'y —
On 12/4/75, a meeting was held with th ‘ollowing
representatives of captioned Committee: Chief Cotisel F.A.0.
Schwartz; Assistant Counsel Paul Michel; Staff Member Mark
Gitenstein; Staff Director of the Domestic Task Force John T.
Elliff; and Staff Member John Bayley. Representing the Bureau
at this meeting were Deputy. Associate Director James. B. Adams,
Assistant Director John A. Mintz, Inspector John B. Hotis, tol
SA Paul V. Daly. yi

The meeting discussed the forthcoming testimony on|/
12/9/75 of the Director before that Committee and E11liff fur-1;),
nished the Bureau two draft papers discussing the Bureau's” -
investigative jurisdiction and issues. the Committee Staff feels
the Senate Select Committee must address from a legislative }
standpoint. Copies of these papers are attached.

v

The first paper which consists of six pages discusses
in Part 1 what the Committee sees as problems arising out of
the FBI's domestic intelligence investigations. This portion
highlights. the fact that these investigations may be overbroad
in scope, collect irrelevant information, and. continue the in-
vestigations beyond what the Committee sees as. their normal
investigative conclusion. This portion also addresses the
investigative techniques. used during these investigations and
the resultant dissemination of information collected.

Under Part 2, the document discusses options available
. to the Committee. These options run the gamut from abolition
of the Bureau's domestic intelligence functions. to administrative
oversight by. the Attorney General or Congressional oversight or
enacting legislation providing for domestic intelligence investi-
gations with legislative limits imposed on such investigations.

“Included is. the consideration of aes) an ae aa
Inspector General. fA! “dg a at 5K
SAE aeons oC
} \ °
Enclosures ‘@[\ 7 JAN 22 1976
on ei
2 Qi, CONTINUED —“OVER | a a

PVD: lad a) Meg

vs £



\ W 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 3

: 6 @

i a

Legal Counsel to. Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY: 75

The second position paper which was prepared by
John T. E1liff begins by a six-page statement and analysis
of thé Bureau's current authority to conduct domestic in-
telligence investigations. He then lists four options for
the Committee.

Option 1 is for Congress to pass: legislation ratifying
the existing FBI authority as set forth by Presidential directives
and Executive Orders.

Option 2 suggests. Congress might give serious. con-
sideration to creating a separate Security Intelligence Agency
within the Department of Justice. In this Option, E1liff sug-

_ gests. that ‘the FBI itself has considered this Option as part of
. the larger question of separating all FBI intelligence functions
from law enforcement functions of the Bureau.

Option 3 considers the elimination of FBI domestic
intelligence. In his analysis of this position, it might be
possible for the Bureau to. develop the necessary intelligence
information through ‘its: normal criminal investigations and
thus remove the necessity for domestic intelligence investi-

_gations as presently conducted.

Option: 4 considers. setting standards for domestic
intelligence investigations. In this. Option, E1Lliff states
that the FBI should be authorized by statute to. conduct domestic
intelligence investigations only as Congress finds that regular
criminal: investigations would not provide information to an-
ticipate or prevent the use of violence in violations of Federal
law and that incidents of the use of. violence in such violations
are of a serious nature and threaten the security of the country.

For purposes, of the Director's appearance on 12/9/75
before the Senate Select Committee, it is believed his response
.fto, questions concerning. the aforementioned position papers should
ibe that the Bureau has received copies and is reviewing the various
roposals and that it would not be appropriate at this time for
he Director to. comment regarding the substance of the proposals.

CONTINUED - OVER

VV Y



ae AS

Fe

Ay

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 4
et | at t

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams
RE: SENSTUDY. 75

Elliff£ indicated during this meeting. that the Director
during his appearance may anticipate being asked a question by

one of the Senators relating. to his statement before the American

Bar Association in Montreal concerning, the necessity for the

sacrifice of certain individual rights at the expense of investi-

_ gations. He also anticipated the Director might be asked a
question concerning his position on COINTELPRO. Regarding
the question concerning. the Director's statement before the
American Bar Association in Montreal, the Legal Counsel Divi-
sion will draft a proposed resonse. Concerning COINTELPRO, a
response has been prepared and will be put together with the
briefing material for the Director.

This memorandum in general highlights the Options
presented in the attached papers. A more detailed analysis
should be prepared by the Intelligence Division and existing
documents addressing these proposals should be made available
for the Director's briefing book for his. testimony.

RECOMMENDATIONS :

(1) That the Director respond to questions concerning
the attached position papers. as set forth above.
Dor

(2) That the Legal Counsel Division draft a proposed
response concerning. the Director's statement made in Montreal
relating. to the sacrifice of certain individual rights.

Done -

(3) That the Intelligence Division make a detailed
review of the various Options set forth in the two attached
position papers. C FoR 3 Dara ot FOSIAL FF COMFER OT:

n fepem 12 vita WP

of Ry
AWee

oe al

7"

weal
Ls

e

a

>



Issues and Options for Discussion with .

Former Attorneys ‘General Rogers, pe and Clark

ALL at AON CONTAINED
HEREIN, |
te BS VSAM
I. Background

In the past few weeks the staff has presented the Committee
with evidence suggesting the following about the FBI's
internal security intelligence program:

A. The program is massive, involving the collection of
. information on the activities of thousands of innocent,
law-abiding American citizens.

B. These individuals were not alleged espionage agents, but
citizens who fall within the FBI's vague definitions of
"subversion" and "extremism" -- purely homegrown "threats
to the national security".

C. That FBI policy on “subversive" and "extremist" inves-
“tigations was vague and subject to the following abuses:

1. overbreadth in scope in that groups were investigated
whose threats to the national security were tenuous,
if not non-existent.

. 2. collection of information on the personal life and
, political views of subjects unrelated to the national
security.

3. the continuance of investigations well after it
should have become obvious that there was no legiti-
mate predicate.

D. Particularly invasive collection techniques were used,
including electronic surveillance, mail opening, and sur-
reptitious entries. Although these have been terminated,
the predominant and perhaps most:insidious continues
today through the FBI's huge informant/confidential source
network.

E. Information collected in the course of these investiga-
tions is disseminated regularly throughout the federal
government and to local law enforcement.

F. Until 31971, information collected through these investi-
gations was disseminated as part of the COINTELPRO pro-
gram to the subjects' friends, relatives, employers, and
others in an effort to discredit or "neutralize" alleged

"subversives" or oe oe ”
Mer 3 - ara Kk

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 5 ; FNGLOSURE)



NW 65360 Docld:32889602 Page 6

The FBI's internal security intelligence program was
used by Presidents from Franklin Roosevelt to Richard
Nixon to serve their political interests, usually by
collecting information on critics or political

. Opponents.

The program was conceived and implemented in secrecy,
and although parts of the program were ‘shared with out-
side authorities from time to time, until now no
President, Attorney General, or Congressional committee
has been exposed to the entire program in detail. 7

The program is not authorizéd by statute but is’ founded
on a series of secret or ambiguous Presidential orders,
which in turn are based.upon a questionable assertion
of "inherent constitutional authority”.

The program continues today, albeit on a much more
limited basis than in the late 1960's and early 1970's,

and the basic machinery for the program -- the huge
informant/confidential source network -- is still
operating., arn

There is no statute or internal Bureau or Justice Depart-

‘ment policy prohibiting a new Director, Attorney General,

or President from ordering the Bureau to expand the pro-
gram to its earlier dimensions. Fi

II. Issues and Options

Among the issues and options which might be discussed with
former Attorneys General in response to what the Committee
has learned are the following:

A.

7

Abolition. Elimination of the FBI internal security
intelligence program as Attorney General Harlan Stone
ordered in 1924 when confronted with abuses growing out
of the FBI's first internal security intelligence pro-
gram, such as the infamous Palmer raids.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues:

1. Whether there are not some functions (e.g., protecting
the President, preventing or at least predicting
violence by terrorist organizations, or predicting
civil disorders) which require intelligence collec-
tion.



2. ‘Whether FBI intelligence reports are valuable in™
that respect, especially in light of a recent GAO.
report suggesting that such reports.are rarely use-
ful in predicting violent activity.

3.: Whether such. information, ‘assuming it is valuable,
: could not be obtained through more traditional eriminal
investigations. .

4. Whether the value of the information; marginal or
otherwise, justifies the risk to civil liberties
inherent in such intelligence collection.

5. Whether, given the way in which liniited and ambiguous
grants of authority have been expanded into major
authorizations,.any statute short of a total prohibi-
tion of all non-law enforcement intelligence activi-
ties in the domestic sector will be adequate to pre-
vent the recurrences of the kinds of abuses uncovered
by this Committee. (Or, conversely, whether it is
possible to draft a law authorizing a limited civil
> disturbance: and counter-terrorist intelligence mission
that will not eventually evolve, like the National
Security Act of 1947, into a charter for unanticipated
and unwanted covert activities.)

6. Whether it would be sufficient to restrict the FBI
to criminal investigations without also (a) placing
limits upon the length of investigations, (b) the
kinds of information which can: be collected and dis-
seminated on the subject irrelevant to the alleged
‘eximinal act, (c). the utilization of warrantless
electronic surveillance and other particularly inva-
sive collection techniques, and (d) the utilization
of a huge informant/confidential source network with~
out judicial or Justice Department supervision.

B. Authorizing Statute. Recognition of the value of
internal security intelligence, but placing limits upon
the program designed to minimize the infringement upon
civil liberties, an option being actively considered by
the present Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out under the first option and, —
in addition:

_ NW65360_ Docld:329%9602 Page 7 -



1. Whether meaningful and stringent guidelines can be
written which do not so hamper the administration
of an internal security intelligence program as to
make the product not just marginal, ‘as GAO suggests, .
but worthless. *

2. In light of the possibility “that the present Attorney
: General may address this matter via internal Justice
Bepartment guidelines, whether this approach does
mot ignore the legal authority question which can -

only be resolved by statute.

3. Whether or not Congress could draft a statutory ver-
sion of the guidelines which could be flexible enough
to meet an evolving threat and at the same time
place meaningful restrictions upon the program.

4, Even assuming there is no absence of legal authority,
is it safe to leave these guidelines in the form of a
departmental order which can be rescinded by the next
Attorney General?

Cu Delegation of Authority to Attorney General. Simply

: ratifying the present program via enactment of a statutory
charter which grants the FBI authority to conduct an
internal security intelligence program subject to its own
internal guidelines or departmental guidelines as proposed
by the Attorney General.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
Many of the issues set out above and:

.l. “Whether such a statute would not be an unconstitu-
tional delegation of powers to the Executive Branch.

=
2. Whether enactment of such a statute “would not repre-
: sent a failure by the Congress to confront the issues
raised above.

*A preliminary staff analysis of the Attorney General's draft
guidelines suggests that, despite months of conscientious and
painstaking work ‘by a departmental task force, the guidelines
are not adequate. This analysis, which will be presented when
Attorney General Levi testifies on December 10, indicates that
several of the more questionable FBI investigations (e.g., of
Dr. King and the women's iiberation movement) would still be
permissible under these proposed guidelines.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 8 7



eoea fees

D. Legislative Inaction. Enact no-new statute affecting
the FBI's legal authority or: the internal security intel-
ligence program.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
many of the issues set out above and, in addition:

1. Whether this failure to act might not leave the
status of the program in doubt and subject to court
challenge. -

2. Whether this failure to act after full disclosure
by the Bureau might not be taken by the FBI and the
courts as a ratification of the program. .

E. Administrative Oversight by the Attorney General. The
Justice Department should be required to exercise greater
administrative oversight over the FBI's internal security
intelligence program by Attorney General Levi, regardless
_O£f whatever other options Congress accepts.

‘In weighing this option, the Committee should consi der
the following issues:

1. Whether it is practical for the Attorney General or
his staff to review thousands of suth investigations
each year.

2. Whether the Attorney General or his staff should
review all or just the so-called “full" investiga-
tions,

f 3.. "Whether, to facilitate the ‘conduct of such reviews,

7 Fanae the Attorney General or his staff should be given
"complete" access to Bureau files, including informa-
tion regarding the identity and reliability of -infor-
mants and confidential sources.

4. Whether it is possible to develop a staff of career
attorneys within the Department with both the access.
and independence essential to the conduct of search-
ing reviews. :

5. Whether the Attorney General or his staff should not
also be required to review various informant and so-
called “intensification" programs, and the establish-
mént of specialized indices (which have a significant
ampact upon which cases are opened) instead of just-
reviewing individual investigations in a vacuum as
provided by the Attorney General's draft guidelines.

NW 65360 Docld:37989602 Page 9



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 10

An. Inspector General. _In addition to the above options,
an independent Inspector General should be created to
investigate improprieties by the FBI. This option-is
advanced by those concerned about the inadequacy of the
. FBI's investigation of the disappearance of former

Director Hoover's personal files, its limited inquiry
.into the so-called Atlantic City convention case, and
the absence of any internal investigation of the abuses
in the King case.

In weighing this option, the Committee should consider
the following issues: .

1. Whether it is possible to maintain the independence
of an Inspector General within the Department of
Justice when both the Inspector General and the
Director of the FBI will be responsible to the same
official, the Attorney General. 7

2. Whether the Inspector General should have "complete"
access to Bureau files, including information per-

taining to the identity and reliability of ipformants’

and confidential sources.

‘3. Whether an Inspector General with access to extremely
sensitive information might not become a serious
threat to the independence of the Bureau from politi-
cal influence and to the civil liberties of American
citizens. : ot

Congressional Oversight. In addition to the above
options, the creation of an oversight committee(s) in the

Congress, to which the Bureau would be required to report

and which would have the power to investigate abuses.

: ok
In weighing this option, the Committee Should consider
the kinds of problems posed by ‘the Justice Department
oversight and Inspector General options discussed above
to the independence of the FBI and the confidentiality
of its files.

Public Reporting and Disclosure to Subjects. In addition
to the above options, the requirement that the FBI make
frequent public reports on the details of its internal
security intelligence programs and policies and reveal
the details of improper intelligence investigations to
the subjects of those investigations.



|

In weighing this option, the .Committee should consider
the following issues: : saamecl .

! i 1. Whether it is possible to reveal the essence of some
prograns and policies and the details of some inves—
tigations without jeopardizing the effectiveness of
legitimate programs.

i 7 - 2... Whether such disclosure might not increase the num-
7 ber of law suits filed against the FBI alleging
' . illegal activities.

af

|_NW 65360 Docld:32889602 Page 11



aur ; ; :
2 DRAPP . ;
_** MEMORANDUM - @ . : e

December 4, 1975

‘FBI LEGISLATION - PROPOSED OPTIONS

: In préparation for the testimony of FBI Director
Kelley and Attorney General Levi on December 9 and 10, the
Domestic Intelligence Task Force is pulling together various _
proposals for legislation dealing with FBI intelligence.

This paper sets forth some of the basic options.

Ay Current Statutes and Executive Orders

Whe basic statute governing the FBI is 18 U.S.c. 533,

which, reads as follows:

: Phe Attorney General may appoint officials:

- “(1) to detect and prosecute crimes against
“the United States, (2) to assist in the
protection of the person of the President,
and (3) to conduct such other investigations
regarding official matters under the con
of the Department of Justice and the Depart-
ment of State as may be directed by the
Attorney General.

Clauses (2) and (3) are a possible statutory basis
for intelligence investigations going beyond the investigation
ef specific federal crimes. Under (2), the FBI may "assist" the

Secret Service in the protection of the President by providing

Ilo
Neto CONTAINED

_ HEREIN 19 U CLASSIFIED. Fy
; tere Lokal o0 py RABIN

Galle 37s~—
ENGLOSURE _

NW-65360- Docld:32989602 Page 12



" intelligence on persons or groups ‘who may endanger the Presi-

dent's safety. wR formal agreement betweeh the FEI and the »,

| provided by the Bureau.., However, this agreement states that:
The FBI will not conduct investigation
of individuals or groups solely for the pur-
pose of establishing whether they constitute
a threat to the safety of the President and
certain other persons unless there is an
indication of a violation of Title 18, U. Ss.
Code, Section 1751, or other statute over
; which the FBI has jurisdiction, (Tab A) pee
Clause (3), recognizes that the Attorney General may
direct the FBI to conduct investigations, other than criminal
investigations, regarding certain undefined “official matters
under the control of the Department ‘of Justice." This is a
possible statutory basis for at least two broad areas of -FBI
intelligence investigations -- civil disturbance intelligence
and intelligence for the Federal Employee Security. Program.
The most. recent legal advice to the FBI from the Justice
‘Department. on the gathering and reporting of data regarding
civil disturbances notes that on April 1, 1969, the President
designated the Attorney General as chief civilian officer to
coordinate the government's response to civil disturbances.

The FBI is instructed to gather and report on "all significant

“incidents of civil unrest" and on “all disturbances where there

to be invoived in efforts te instigate or exploit them." The

NW 65360 Docld:32889602 Page 13

secret service ‘sets forth ‘the, _ types of intelligence information

are indications that extremist organizations . . .-are believed



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 14

FBI is spécifically: advised to make reports “even. when no
specific violation of federal law is indicated." On the other
hand, the FBI. is “instructed not to report “every relatively in-
significant incident of a strictly ‘local nature’ coming to its
A eer (Tab B) : ate ; : :

The Justice Department has given the following recent
instructions to the FBI regarding intelligence for the Federal
Employee Security Program. Executive order 10450, as amended
by Executive Order 11785, is interpreted as requiring an’ *EBI
investigation ad organizations "with a potential" - “of violating
fedéral ox state statutes prohibiting unlawful advocacy of vio-
dence or ‘the commission of any unlawful act of violence. ‘The
FBI is advised ‘that "it is not ‘possible to set “definite para-
meters covering the initiation of investigations of potential

“organizations falling within the Order." The FBI is instructed
“to apply "the same yardstick" to investigations of individuals
who are affiliated with such organizations. The FBI is specifi-
“cally advised that "it is not necessary that. a crime occur
before the investigation is initiated." (Tab C)

Clause (3) also recognizes that the Attorney General
may direct the FBI to conduct investigations, other than criminal
investigations, regarding certain undefined "official matters
under the control ef the Department of State." This is a pos-
sible statutory basis for FBI intelligence investigation of

. foreign intelligence activities within the United States or to

.
«



collett positive foreign “intelligence. ie de example -is

the Attorney Generai! 8 authorization of warrantless FBI elec-
tronic surveillance. for foreign intelligence purposes. | However,
: there is ‘apparently no instruction’ from “the Justice- ‘Department
to the FBI directing the Bureau to initiate investigations of
individuals or organizations which have a marked potential for
use by a foreign intelligence service, but about which there is.
no information indicating intelligence ‘activity. (See Staff
Report, "Counterintelligence/Counterespionage: The Law and
the > Philosophy", October 4, 1975. ) ,
*: In his testimony before the Committee, Deputy Associate
FBI Director James Adams made no reference ° to clauses (2) and

{3) asa "possible legal basis for FBI intelligence investiga~

tions going beyond the investigation of specific federal’
instead, he placed sole reliance on a series of Presidential
directives extending from 1936 until the 1960's which the FBI
. interprets as authorizing it to engage in "domestic security
intelligence’ investigations". The Attorney General has codified
these directives in a Justice Department regulation instructing
the FBI to:
Carry out the Presidential directive

of September 6, 1939, as reaffirmed by Presi-

dential directives of January 8, 1943, July

24, 1950, and December 15, 1953, designating

the [FBI] to take charge of investigative

work in matters relating to espionage, sabotage,

subversive activities, and related matters.
28 C.F.R., Section 0.85(d).

“
Ni

NW.65360_Docld:32889602 Page 15 SEE ro = et



Go eee e
The FBI als ‘Oo cites directives. of President Kennedy on June 9,
1962, and Attorney General Kennedy on’. March 5, 1964, which
are the latest charter for the Interdepartmental. Intelligence
Conference, composed of the FBI ‘Director and the chi fefs of the
military intelligence agencies. This group is authorized to
coordinate "ail investigation of domestic espionage, counter-
espionage, Sabotage, subversion, and other related intelligence

Ag internal security." (Tab D)

matters affecpi

The theory’ behind the Ea s position is that the Prési-

dent has ‘inherent: constitutional. powers, at ‘least in ‘the
absence of contrary legislation, to authorize FBI intelligence
activities. 7 The only judicial support .for this theory is ;
language in the Supreme Court! s opinion in ‘the Keith case,
which declareG warrantless wiretapping of “domestic groups _
constitutional.

Phe’ Court acknowl edged the importance of “national teens
rity in its domestic’ implications eee especially at a time
of worldwide ferment and when civil disorders in this country
are more prevalent than in the less turbulent periods of our
history." Under such circumstances, the Court stated, the.
President has a "fundamental duty” under the Constitution to
“preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United
States." The Court added, “Implicit in that duty is the power .
te protect cur Government against those who would subvert or

‘overthrow it by unlawful means." Hence, the Court appeared to
7 .

.

NW 65360 Doéld:32989602 Page 16



De : . 7) . - : : = | -

recognize that the bresident's "domestic security role" has a

“constitutional basis"; that the president through the Attorney
General may need "to obtain intelligence information about those
"who plot unlawful pacha against the’ Government"; and that “threats
and acts of sabotage against the Government exist ia sufficient
number to justify investigative powers with respect to them."
The Court applied the general principle, that “unless the Govern-
ment safeguards its own capacity to function and’ to preserve
the security of its people, society itself could become so dis-.

ordered that all rights and liberties would be endangered."

Nevertheless, the central holding of the Keith decision was that
this power may not be exercised in such a way as to, infringe

constitutional rights. 407 U.S. 297 (1972).

7 Even though the President may have the authority under
the Constitution to direct the FBI to conduct intelligence

"investigations in the’ absence of legislation, Congress has the

ultimate authority to Substitute statutory authorization ia
place of the Presidential directives. As Justice’ Robert Jackson
declared in the Steel Seizure cree “When the President takes

measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of

Congress, his power is at its lowest ebb. . . ." 343 U.S. 579,

637. ‘ ;
\

NW 65360 Doeld:32989602 Page 17



Ee

_&B. option One -~ Ratifying Existing Powers
” The first option for Congress is ‘Legistation ratifying

_ the existing. authority granted to-the FBI by current presiden-

tial directives and orders. ° Such legislation would be cast in
extremely general terms. ts main advantage is that it would
provide a basis for Congressional oversight. It could also ay
reinfotce the Attorney General's role as the immediate super--

visor of FBI #ntelligence activities, The statute would

authorize the Attorney General to direct the FBI:

_i. “to conduct investigations of domestic espionage;
counterespionage, sabotage, and subversive ‘activities;

2. to gather and report’ information ‘on civil distur-

_bances;
i 3. to conduct investigations of other related intelli-
gence matters affecting internal security; and ;
4. tc conduct investigations of official matters relat-
fing to the. Department of State. ,
In addition, the statute would require the Attorney General
to report annually to the appropriate Congressional committees
on the volume and type of investigations and reports, the
investigative techniques used, and the policies and procedures
Saisie by the Justice Department and the FBI. iil
“The weaknesses of this approach are obvious. Congress,
would have legislatea a wholesale delegation of power without

.
ny

NMA65360_Docid:32889602 Page 18.



‘standards or Limitations ‘other than ‘the supervision of the
attorney ‘General. and. oversight -by Congress.. In‘ view of the,
select Cominittee' s findings as to the vast overbreadth of FBI

“ domestic “intelligence” investigations and the abuses‘ committed

in the name of “counterintelligence", Congress would in ect
be permitting future expansion of FBI operations to match past

policies. : . “

Cc. Option Two -- A Separate Security Intelligence Agency

* , “Congress might give Serious consideration to legislation
cteating a separate Security Intelligence Agency within the
Justice Department. It would perform the functions of the
present Counterintel Lligence Branch of the EBI Intelligence
Division; dealing with foreign intelligence and counterintelli-
“gence/counterespionage. The FBI itself has’ considered this
‘option as part of the larger question of separating all FBI
intelligence functions from the law enforcement functions of
“the Bureau, (Tab E) :

A Separate agency would be justified only if it was
authorized to conduct investigations of a wider scope and using
different techniques than would otherwise be permitted. In
other words, Congress could decide that foreign counterintelli~
gence investigations should go beyond investigation of specific
_erimes, that techniques such as electronic surveillance shoulda

be used without a warrant or with a Special type of warrant,

.
.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 19
_ NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 1S



ioe 9 a . ; e@
‘and that operations should be. conducted to "counter" foreign
intelligence’ activities by means iui than arrest or "persona
non grata". proceedings. On the other hand, if Congress treats
* the investigation of ‘foreign intelligence activities the same
asa criminal investigation, then the FBI should keep the job.

Any statute in this area must use general language for :

: diplomatic Pea ones For example, Congress should not explicitly
authorize deception operations or efforts to compromise hostile
intelligence officers, even though such techniques may be
envisioned. Such techniques’ are dealt with best by establish-
ing adequate procedures for authorization and oversight to
ensure accountability.

The legislation should be more specific where it deais
with investigations and other operations directed at American
citizens rather hic non-resident aliens in the service ofa
foreign power. I It Congress believes Americans should be inves—
tigated if they ‘have a marked potential for use by a foreign
intelligence service, but no information indicating intelligence
activity yet exists, the legislation should say so.

The statute should also set out standards for determin-
ing whether a foreign~dominated domestic organization falls
within the jurisdiction of the separate agency. There should
at the very least be substantial information indicating that

the organization is directed by, subsidized by, or in active

of

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 20 .



NW 65360 Docld:329B9602 Page 21.

collaboration: with a foreign government or organization. (The.

term "foreign organization" refers, for“instance, toa group
like the Palestine Liberation organization.) I£ the group fits
| the criteria for foreign domination, there ‘should be an addi-
tional finding that it may engage in ‘intelligence activities or
in activities involving the use of violence in violations of
federal law. _ , ‘
; ‘xf the;group meets all these standards, Congress may
authorize the investigation of its activities going beyond
regular criminal investigations. Such investigations, could
extend to all individuals who — members of, or express sup~
port for, the organization, as well as to the efforts of the
organization to influence and control other groups: However,
it may be sufficient to authorize only the investigation. of
active members and supporters. This would prevent a revival
(of the "Cominfil" policy of looking into all forms of lawful
political and social activity Where Communists might be involv-
ed. Hl ; :

The Petersen Committee report on COINTELPRO considered
the need for special supervision of foreign counterintelligence
operations in the United States. It recommended the creation
of a Foreign Intelligence Advisory Commission to make decisions
with regard to the necessity or acceptability.of particular

. foreign counterintelligence techniques. (Tab F) This proposal

*


Se \

thas merit ‘in view of the: limited amount of time the Attorney
General can ‘give, to personal supervision, and the. after~the~fact
role of legislative oversight regarding the separate’ agency.
Finally, legislation to create a separate foreign.
counterintelligence agency must deal with relationships to the
Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and other

_ foreign intelligence agencies. The current FBI-CIA agreement

on their respéctive jurisdictions is only a "memorandum of under-
standing". It allows the CIA to undertake certain clandestine ot
activities within the United States, in coordination with the

FBI. (Tab 6} - " Proposals are currently circulating in the Execu~
i

tive Branch for a-new National Security Council In Lligence
Directive to elaricy this matter, as well as to regulate CIA
electronic surveillance of American citizens abroad. (fab H)
A full draft of a statutory charter for a BOLinnNRiREa
foreign counterintelligence agency is not included here, since
the focus is-on domestic intelligence issues. However, one
implication of such a statute would be that the remaining FBI

functions should relate only to law enforcement and criminal

investigations.

D. Option Three ~- Elimination of FBI Domestic Intelligence

The basic assumption behind Attorney General Levi's
effort to develop "guidelines" for FBI domestic intelligence —

is that regular criminal investiyations are not adequate to

.
.

NW 65360 Doéld:32889602 Page 22



~, con @. - 12 - = 7 -@
ae at : a hi ji
supply the information needed to anticipate or prevent the use
of violence in violations of federal. law. That assumption =
shoulda be questioned. Regular criminal investigations are-
7 Likely to produce a substantial amount of information which
can be used to anticipate or prevent future crimes.,’ For example,
intensive criminal investigations of ku Klux Kian violence in i
the South during the 1960's would have required the FBI to look”
into a wide variety of Klan activities. Another example is the
search for Weatherman fugitives, a regular criminal investiga-
tion which involves broad inquiries across the country. The

- FBI has not yet demonstrated that the preventive information

it -has obtained came from intelligence investigations which

would not have been conducted as regular criminal investigations.

The fact that an PBI investigation was supervised by

its Intelligence Division does not necessarily mean that the

"investigation was, automatically, outside the regular criminal
law enforcement jurisdiction of the Bureau. Any FBI investiga-

" tion of activities “involving the use of violence in violations
of federal law falls within that jurisdiction. Moreover,
regular criminal investigations can also extend to plans,
attempts, or conspiracies to engage in such activities.

One suggested difference between intelligence-type and
regular criminal investigations is that the latter are

. ,ternlinated after a reasonable time, if sufficient evidence to

”

Nw 65360 Docld:32999602 Page 23


justify prosecution is not obtained. However, there is no
legal. reason why the prosecutor’ cannot. request that the inves-
tigation continue indefinitely as long as there is information
that’ violent activities and plans for violence are still under-
way. The degree of evidence needed to justify a prosecution
is certainly greater than the degree of evidence needed to
justify an investigation. “

‘all this is not to say that no further standards are
needed to guide regular criminal investigations when they may
touch on sensitive First. Ameridment or other constitutional
interésts. This is especially true of ‘criminal investigations
of individuals or groups engaged both in lawful political, or
social activities and in unlawful violence or plans for vio-

, lence. To what extent is the advocacy of violence a proper
basis for initiating an investigation? Should an investigation
be initiated on the basis of allegations or other information ,
that an individual is a member of, or has, expressed public
support for, an organization which has as one of its objectives
the use of violence? Should an investigation be started on all
members and public supporters of an organization, some of whose
members have acted in concert to use violence?

These questions are addressed in the draft Attorney
. General's guidelines for domestic intelligence investigations

under the heading "preliminary irivestigations". (Tab I) Since

vt

#

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 24 , 7



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 25

the guidelines assume that there should be intelligence inves- _

tigations, they ‘do not consider whether ‘guch investigations:
might be" “permitted as regular criminal investigations.

The Klan and Weatherman examples. again illustrate the
paint Once it has been established that a particular Klan

group is engaged in or planning violence, it seems reasonable

_to conduct at least preliminary inquiries to determine whether

the members and supporters of the group are invoived in the
violence or the plans for violence. Similarly, the search for —~
Weatherman fugitives who committed bombings’ and other acts of

violence would appear reasonably to include preliminary

-inquiriés to determine whether other Weatherman members and ©

supporters have harbored the fugitives.

On the other hand, it would seem unreasonable to!
investigate members and supporters of all Kian groups across
the country on the ground a some Klan groups have used
yar ence. And it appears equally unreasonable to investigat
ail. menbers and supporters of SDS because the Weatherman
faction engaged in violence. The scope of the investigation
must be logically related to its specific purpose, and not an
excuse for wide-ranging collection of intelligence.

There is one possible exception to the requirement that

. the FBI only conduct regular criminal investigations. The

Attorney General (and the President) do require reports on

or



oe a : eee a.

major civil disturbances which’ may not involve violations of
federal law. The FBI should be authorized to gather such data
and make appropriate reports as part of its law énforcement
responsibilities, However; the data and reports should be
limited to information provided by local or state law enforce-
ment authorities or obtained in the course of a regular FBI
criminal investigation. Where local authorities provide infor-

“mation about individuals and organizations which are not the
subject of a regular FBI criminal investigation, the data and
reports should not be included in the FBI's general files and
name index.

: In periods of widespread civil disturbances, the
Attorney General may require a more systematic procedure for
maintaining and retrieving civil disturbance information.’ this
was the case in 1967, when Attorney General Clark created the
“intérdivisional Intelligence Unit in the Justice Department.
fhe IDIU stored and indexed civil disturbance reports separately
from the FBI. The data was used to help anticipate or ameliorate
disorders. IDIU has been abolished, although the basic function
of evaluating reports on civil disturbances is still performed
by the Justice Department. This function should also be
authorized by statute, and the intent of Congress should be
: that the Attorney General must obtain specific legislative

authorization for any future IDIU.

a

NW 65360 Docld:329§9602 Page 26
a ne ie dat etd oy



fans Qo ts - e
a eer 7 7 ; . A : . . , .
IDIU was not perfect. ‘under Attorney General John
Mitchell it suppiied'a list of names ‘of American dissidents
to the CIA. .- = (Tab J) It also was used in conjunction ‘with
grand jary proceedings inguiring into ‘terrorist bombings.
“Both of these activities should be forbidden by the: statute
authorizing the Justice Department to evaluate civil distur-
bance information. -
Finally, legislation may be needed to make clear that
the FBI is not authorized to conduct investigations of organi-
zations or individuals for the specific purpose of compiling
a body of data to be used in connection with name checks under
the Federal Employee Security Program. fhe same principle
applies to FBI "assistance" to the Secret service, under the
present FBI- Secret Service agreement. es
A statute must also address the FBI's current practice
“of maintaining an Administrative Index (ADEX) of the prime
subjects of current domestic intelligence investigations. The
past history of the’ FBI's Security Index and other target lists
(Key Activists, Agitator Index, key Black Extremists) suggests
the need to enact legislation banning the compiling of lists
of persons by the FBI, unless such persons have been arrested

er convicted for specific eximes and the list : is used in con-

nection with the investigation of such crimes.

\

a

NW 65360° Decld:32989602 Page 27



These proposals to limit the FBI to regular criminal

investigations ‘and civil disturbance reporting must _ tested
against the’ actual past experience of ‘the Justice Department

“and the FBI. ‘General instructiians from the Department to the

Bureau nay be overly vague, even within the framework of

criminal investigation. Two examples are Attorney General

Clark's memorandum on riots in 1967 and Assistant Attorney

General Yeagligy's memorandum of campus disorders in 1969. (Tab

K) The Nation of hetem exchange between the Department and the—

FBI jn 1973-74 is another itlustration. (Tab 8) ; i
thus, there is no automatic panacea in restricting the

FBI. to criminal. investigations. ‘the need for careful scrutiny

of actual investigative policies and practices by Congress and

the Attorney General is just as great as if the FSI were’

authorized ta conduct domestic intelligence haideodiae-babaiaiioet

Legislation must focus on procedures for ensuring accoun

by regular reports from the Attorney General. to ayes appropiate
Congressional committees.

The following are some of the basic elements which should
go into a statute embodying this option. It would authorize the
Attorney General to direct the FBI: :

-1. to investigate violations of federal criminal laws,
provided that the ‘scope and @uration of the investigation are

logically related to its specific purpose;

—viW.85260_Docld:29889602 Page 28 : : : peretezere:



awe =

‘2. _ tov take only such investigative measures as are
sanctioned by rule of: law,’ procedure, or judicially recognized
or accepted investigative practices, and are not. in violation
" of state or federal ‘law: ;
“3. to seek’ legal advice from ‘the Attorney General or
his designee whenever a proposed action may be perceived, with
reason, to unfairly affect the rights of citizens, provided that
‘this responsibility to seek legal advice is the -duty of both the
FBI as an institution and FBI agents as individuals; ° Wit
on : 4a to collect information from state and local ‘Law
‘enforcement agencies regarding major civil disturbances, provid-
/ ed that -such information ‘is not entered into the FBI general
files and name index; nn
‘5. to disseminate information obtained from criminal
investigations for the following purposes, under _regulations
promi gated iy the Attoxney General and published in the Federal
“Register! ;
ae * prosecution of violations of criminal laws;

b. prevention or anticipation of violations of

cyiminal laws;

¢. assistance to the Secret Service in the perfor-

mance of its protective responsibilities;
a. determination of the suitability of individuais

for employment by the federal government;

oP

NW 65360 Docld:32939602 Page 29



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 30

6 to report civil disturbance inforniation obtained’

. £xom state and -local law enforcement agencies to. the Attorney -
Genéral for the. purpose of determining, the need to use federal .
eee ‘force. under’ 10 U- S.Cu 331 et seq.t

oh to compile Such lists of persons arrested or con-
victed for specific crimes as may be necessary for use in con-
nection with the investigation of such crimes;

“8, to#provide to the Attorney General ox. his designee
full access to any information in the possession of the FBI
“which he may deem necessaxy - for the performance of his respon-
sibilities to supervise FBI. activities and _ submit reports to.
appropriate Congressional committees on FBI activities;

9. to" follow such other procedures and standards con-

sistent with this’ statute which the Attorney General may pre-

sexibe, provided that such procedures and standards shall be

. Published in the Federal Register or, if publication would sub-

stantially int ere with the conduct of investigations,

reported to appropriate Congressional committees.

rn



ae oe °

E. option Four -- Setting standards for Domestic s Intelnigence

The FBI. should. be authorized by | statute to conduct:
doméstic. intelligence investigations eat if Congress finds
Q that" regular criminal’ investigations as described tavat
would ‘not ‘provide information to anticipate or prevent the use
of violence in violations of federal law, and (2) that the inci-
dents of the use of violence in violations of federal law are
so numerous agd so serious as to constitute a significant threat
to the internal security or domestic tranquility of the United __
States. ; ee ,
: The fact. that there are “individuals cand groups who
engage in. violence, advocate violence, or : believe ‘in the desir-
ability of the. ultimate use of violence to advance their
political or social objectives is not enough to “Just fy FBI

domestic intelligence authority. There must be additional

findings that regular criminal investigations are inad
and that the overall threat of violence constitutes a serious
‘danger to the country. :
Purthermore, if FBI domestic intelligence is authorized
by statute, it should be an annual authorization which must, be
renewed each year upon reconsideration by Congress and the
Pe aniey General of these factors. Past experience indicates

that the annual appropriations process does not provide an’

appropriate forum for considering» the FBI's basic aut hority.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 31 PEE EEEStEHEEEE



Attorney General Levi's aragt guidelines provide a basis
‘for, the consideration ‘of. a domestic intelligence ‘authorization.
They do not cover the investigation of foreign-related
7 activities which may be directed by, Subsidized by, or other-
wise conducted in active collaboration with a foreign government,
a foreign organization, or their agents. {See Option Two above.)
_ The ‘guidelines deal with five different types of threats :
of violence wHich may constitute serious dangers to the country:
1. overthrow of the, government (revolutionary violence) a
‘att 2. “interference in the U. S. —— the activities ofa
foreign government (bombing a consulate, ‘attempting to assassi~
nate a visi iting foreign leader) ; Sees EEE sees
Hott 3. interference with the functioning of the government
or the flow of interstate commerce to influence federal policies
(violent protest activities, terrorist bombings);
4. deprivation of-civil rights (Xlan violence, violent
“protest against busing); Tit
5. incitement of violence which may require the use of
federal military force (riots, major civil disturbances accom~
panying protest demonstrations). :
The guidelines also refer to violence directed at state govern-

ments, either overthrow of a state government or interference

with the functioning of a state government.

NW 65360 Docld:329§9602 Page 32



8 8 @

Authorizing legislation should indicate whether domestic”
intelligence is necessary: for any or all of these specific prob- ~
lems. For example, revolutionary violence, in an attempt to
‘overthrow the government | may be a remote and speculative danger,
while ‘berrorist bombings may be substantially interfering with
the functioning of the government. Klan violence was unques-
tionably a serious danger to civil rights in the early and mid-"
1960'S, but is it so today? Major riots and civil disturbances
were equally serious in the late 1960's and early 1970's, but
not in more recent years. violent interference with the func~
‘tioning Of a state cnn An aEeii should, sunder, our federal system,
normally be dealt with by state and local jaw enforcement. -

Therefore, the definition of the _purpose of FBI dan
intelligence can’ be simplified. The Attorney Ge ‘neral’s draft
guidelines might be revised to authorize FBI domestic intelli-
gence investigations:

1. to ascert, facts or information which serves to

anticipate ‘and prevent the use of violence in violations of

federal law intended to

a. interfere, in the United States, with the

activities of a foreign government or its authorized represen-

tatives; and 7

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 33



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 34

b. interfere with the functioning of the government

‘of the United States or the free flow of. interstate commerce in

order to influence policies or decisions of the federal govern-

This formulation concentrates on the most likely current serious
danger to the country, namely, politically motivated terrorist
violence. ‘PBI Director Kelley's recent public statements have
stressed the increase in terrorist activity from 24 bombings in
1973 to 45 perpen ee bombings in 1974 and 46 such bonbings in
the. first six months of 1975. : ,

7 However, this increasing threat is not the only factor
to be considered. In the course of. the FBI's regular criminal
investigations of these bombings and other incidents of terror-
ist violence, can it obtain as a by-product substantial infor-
mation which may serve to anticipate and prevent future vio-
“lence? If so, the need for broader intelligence~type investi-
gations is less evident. , = ;

The draft guidelines provide that the FBI would conduct
full-scale intelligence investigations on the basis of
“specific and articulable facts justifying the conclusion"
that an individual, or individuals acting in concert, may be
engaged in activities which may involve the use of violence in
violations of federal law. The two "mays" render the require~.

_ ment of "specific and articulable facts" almost meaningless.

" Therefore, any legislation should authorize the FBI:
.
:

*



nap ogee a Page 35 ina

2. to’ conduct full domestic intelligence investigations

on the basis of specific and articulable facts justifying ‘the

conclusion that an individual, or individuals acting in concert,

- are engaged in activities which are likely to involve the use

of violence as described in 1 above. :

The draft guidelines also discuss the surveillance tech-
niques to be used in full domestic intelligence investigations, -
including infgrmants, mail covers, and electronic surveillance.
The guidelines note that additional techniques may need to be
covered, such as inquiries made under "pretext", photographic
surveillance, "trash covers", etc. However,. the legislation may
deal with techniques more generally by providing that the FBI
ds authorized: ; : :

3. to take only such investigative measures as are

sanctioned by rule of law, procedure, or judicially recognized

“or accepted investigative practices, and are not in violation

of state ox federal law.-

More detailed regitlation of investigative techniques for full
investigations will be considered elsewhere.

, The scope of domestic intelligence investigations under
the draft guidelines is broadened considerably under the pro-
vision for "preliminary investigations". They can be

initiated on the basis of allegations or other information that

an individual, or individuals acting in concert, have advocated

" activities which may involve violence, or are members of, or

.
.

v



ares . : : :

eee aoe : . } -- 25 = : e

: SE everSe : :
have expressed public support for, an, organization which has
as its objective activities which may involve violence. The
purpose of the preliminary investigation is to verify er refute

: the allegations or information: However, the vagueness of the
standard is obvious. Therefore, to pe consistent with the
exiteria for full investigations, the PBI should be authorized:

. 4. to conduct preliminary domestic intelligence inves~

tigations on #he basis of allegations or other information that

an_individual, or individuals acting in concert,

. a. advocate the.use of violence as described in 1

above;

b. are engaged _in activities which are likely to

involve the use of violence as described in 1 akove;

c.. are members of or have expressed. public support

for an organization engaged in activities which involve, or are

likely to involve, the use of violence as described in 1 above,

provided that other members of the organization are currently

the subject of a full domestic intelligence investigation or a

regular criminal investigation.

Unless these changes are made in the guidelines, they would per-
mit investigations similar to past investigations which have
been seriously criticized. .For instance, they would allow in-
véstigations of all SDS members or all Black Student Union lead-

+.ers.on the ground that their activities may involve violence,

NW 65360 Docld:32589602 Page 36°



we ae o eee Pacer eee taneee? e
; 7 Tats , Se fee
even though’ there is no specific allegation of likely involve-
. ment in violence. 7
Another" reason for the revision is to exclude‘ those
: investigations which would be. justified-as regular criminal :
investigations. thus, ‘allegations or other information that
an individual, or individuals acting in concert, have engaged
in or plan to engage in activities which involve the use of
violence would. fall within the FBI's regular criminal investi-
gative jurisdiction. Intelligence investigations would extend —_.
further at the preliminary stage to cover advocacy of violence
and membership in ‘or public support for organizations involved .
“in or likely to be involved an violence. Full investigations
require a Likelihood of violence, short of actual violence or

plans for violence. ; 7 : 7

NW 65360 Docld:3989602 Page 37
Selina ini se titi


i UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ‘f =
Memorandum a
‘Comp. Syst, —_
To  : Mr.fJ. B. Adams pate; 12/5/75 Fiseeai—
Gen. Inv. +
( —_
ye : Legal conse . ; Ins pejfen
suByecT: NATE SELECT COMMITTEE; om
TTORNEY GENERAL'S TESTIMONY,
-. DECEMBER 10, 1975 incor Socy —

e

At 3:01 p.m. on December 5, 1975, Mark Wolf of the Attorney
General's staff, called me at the instructions of the Attorney General
and advised that the Attorney General requested:

(1) FBI manual sections on domestic intelligence

investigations;

at.
AO (2) A listing identifying all individuals and organizations
now the subjects of FBI domestic intelligence. investigations.

Wolf said that the Attorney General is currently en rout

U Chicago and will return to Washington on Sundayevening. Therefope,
the requested materials should be delivered to the Attorney General
no later than Monday morning, December 8, 1975.

RECOMMENDATION:
That the Intelligence Divisim prepare an appropriate

response to the Attorney General's instructions in time for delivery by.
9:00 a.m. on December 8, 1975.

1 - Mr. Wannail o

1- Mr. Cregar ah ,
1 - Mr. Hotis gi Vee d M6 395° {2 15

1- Mr. Daly Y
1 - Mr. Mintz ALL INFORMATI
(ATION CONTAINED. 15 DEC 171975
; HEREIN 197 UNELASSIF 1
rreaaed av ; ovte gl 360 5 SRA wie? —_—— —]
. 7 7 i sy
wr

; Oss
OF 31.1975,

ocld:32989602 GL/3§ Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan


dn Reply, Please Refer to
File No. (SC) 62-7721 pesineee ;
Hine Gail cand May,,18, 1966

for dissemi-
‘oceedings by

thorized person-

fficial pre

Tis use is limited to 0;
e content may nut be disclosed to unaui

sponse to your request and is not
Ss approval of the FBI .

prepared in re:

uiside your Committee.

This document is
your Committee and th
uel without the expres:

nation o

——NW-65360 Docld:32989602 Page 39

@
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

‘WASHINGTON, D.C, 20535,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
Eo
RE{ NATIONALIST PARTY OF PUERTO RICO
Vv" INTERNAL SECURITY — PUERTO RICAN NATIONALIST

1 We presently maintain an authorized technical sur~
veillance at the residence of Rosa Collazo and her daughter,
lydia Collazo Turner, 1755 Anthony Avenue, Bronx, New York.
This surveillance was originally installed on April 13, 1962,

‘ . Rosa Collazo is the wife of Oscar Collazo who is
Serving a life sentence in connection with the killing of

a@ White House guard during an attempt to assassinate former
President Truman on November 1, 1950, Both Rosa and her
daughter are active in’ the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
in New York City, ‘During the past six months, this surveil-
lance has continued to furnish valuable information regarding
activities of Puerto Rican independence advocates in New York,
Through this surveiliance, we have obtained information
concerning the movement of Puerto Rican nationalists between
New York and Puerto Rico, Included in this information was
advance notice that Rosa Collazo planned to attend the
General Assembly of the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
“during February, 1966, in Puerto Rico, Upon her return,
details were obtained concerning the proceedings of the
General Assembly, In addition, we were able to obtain advance
notice of demonstrations in New York City in which
nationalists participated, This enabled us to inform police
authorities and interested Government agencies in advance of
the demonstrations,

Unless you instruct to the contrary, this technical
surveillance will be continued for an additional six months,

; “Very truly yours,

: 4 ad wo
bn Edgar, Hoover :

Director



‘UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

June 3, 1965

“In Reply, Please Refer to
xf Bile No.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,
at

Res DOMINICAN SITUATION
INTERNAL SECURITY ~
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Diego Emilio Bordas Hernandez and his brother,
Luis Manuel Alfredo Bordas, have emerged in the current
Dominican crisis as important financial, political and
military advisors to the deposed Dominican President Juan
Bosch in the latter's efforts to regain control of the
Dominican Government. Diego Bordas is a wealthy shipping
executive currently residing in exile in San Juan, Puerto Rico,
having been born in the Dominican Republic on January 11, 1923.
He served in various high posts under Juan Bosch during the
latter's short occupancy of the position of President of the
Dominican Republic in early 1963, Bordas spends much of his '
time at 868 Ashford Avenue in San Juan, using an apartment F
at that address as his residence during the absence of its
owner, Jose Antonio Benitez Jiminez, from Puerto Rico.
dose Benitez is the cousin of Jaime Benitez, the latter the
Director of the University of Puerto Rico and a close
- associate and advisor of Juan Bosch, Diego Bordas also a oe
maintains a residence at 21 V, Florencia, Pueblo Viego, a
suburb of San Juan, near the current residence and headquarters
ma of Juan Bosch. Diego Bordas and his brother jointly operate
7 a shipping business known as Bordas and Company at Highway
~ Number 2, Puerto Viejo, Puerto Rico, and his financial
dealings’ in support of the Bosch efforts can reasonably be
expected to be conducted from this commercial establishment.

a

om

\

The Bordas brothers have both been the subjectsof
numerous allegations indicating their cooperation with
procommunist and pro=Trujillo factions in Dominican politics
and are apparently opportunists who have seized the current
Situation to enhance their political and financial futures.
Luis Bordas is currently in the Dominican Republic acting as_
the Director of Military Operations of the rebel forces a
supporting Bosch. . ae

: ve
gisage
eet Oe- poe Mey
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION =e jog “fa. = 2. eons
Unauthorized : Disclosure “Sxenee- REG g- i

Subject to Criminal Sanction:

: eps esttce-clene eee

4 JUN AS 105

NW @B360 a4aniom0c Gbve 40



MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

Luis Bordas is reportedly the Honorary Nicaraguan
Consul in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and, as a result, Department
of State clearance for technical coverage of the business he
operates jointly with Diego Bordas was obtained by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation on June 1, 1965.

In view of the pressing nature of the international
situation as it relates to the Dominican Republic, it is.
requested that you authorize technical coverage of the
residences of Diego Bordas mentioned above and of the business
address of the joint venture operated by the Bordas brothers,
Authority is requested for similar coverage of any addresses
to which the mentioned residences or business may move in
the future, ;

.

Respectfully,

- ee een

ihn nagar’ loover
Director™
APPROVED LY

DATE Ofyfey =
vA

-2-

—NW_65360_Docld:32989602 Page 41


GN

oe
ie 2- Mr. J.. A. Mintz oO ?
: (1 - Mr..J. B. Hotis) © AW
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall he,
: 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar oe n
The Attorney General December 19, 1975 A

1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent

oa S aay ce ACTIVITES (as0) ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
J HEREIN. 12, UNGLASSIFIEL
; Dae LOB YO py SRAM

: Reference is made to SSC letter dated December 4,
1975, containing requests for materials concerning Martin
Luther King, Jr.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the
SSC is an original of a memorandum in response to Item 2 ii
that letter.

Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the
memorandum which is being delivered to you with a copy of the -
See T in response to Item 2 which is being delivered to the \'
ssc. :

Enclosures (2) SL. 1a) RECS! os {*
saat Me 39S NHI
1 - The Deputy Attorney General ba /: (0 75K 1

Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr. : we
Special Counsel for . Ne
Inpéelligence Coordination? JAN 22 1976: ‘J

EAESAFsNOSEAREAEES Y-

NOTE:
A copy of the SSC letter 12/4/75, is attached to the

file copy of enclosed letterhead memorandum. Exact copy of toe,
the memorandum being furnished is maintained in the office of the
SENSTUDY 75 Project. Arrangements have been made for a repre-
senative of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the attached Ee
memorandum as well as the document being provided to the SSC.

As indicated in the enclosed memorandum, Items 1, 3 and 4 requested
in the referenced SSC letter are being handled separately. Items

1 and 3 requested in referéhced SSC letter are being handled by
the IS-3 and CI-3 Sections respectively. Item 4, a vetestatement
of prior request, submitted by the SSC is being handled separately
by“SA. V."R. ‘Thornton of the IS-1 Section. Al

Pas Pf Me

bie MAIL ROOM[__} TELETYPE UNIT [_] : pas GPO : 1975 0 - 569-920
‘ ry,
v45360N BSasGkGo602 Page 42 Ae


- Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - J. B. Hotis)
Mr. W. R. Wannall
Mr. W. 0. Gregar
- Mr. P. E. Nugent

December 19, 1975

PRE
t

62=116395

AL NFORATION conramen
U. §. SENATE SELECT COMMETTEE TO i CLASSIF|
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIOAS WITH a
RESPECT 0 INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

Reference is made to SSC Iekter dated December 4,
1975, containing requests for materials concerning Martin
Lather King, Jr,

The purpase of this memorandum is to effect delivery
to the SSC of a copy of a letter from Mr. Hoover to The Honorable
William D. Hoyers, Special Assistant to the President, at the
White House, Washington, D. €., dated October 27, 1964.

It is noted that in addition to cequesting a copy of
this letter the SSC requested materials reflecting this letter
was hand-delivered te the White House by Mr. DeLeach on
October 28, 1964.

Attention is drawa to the upper right-hand corner of
Mr. Hoover's letter to Mx. Moyers and to the notation apacaring
there roading “personally delivered 10/28/64, D." No additional
materials are available in FBIHQ files reflecting delivery of
this letter beyond the aforementioned notation which, it appears,
bears the initial of Mr.. BDeLoach.

f
oe

LH

Items 1, 3 and 4 requested in the referenced SSC
letter are being handled in separate responses.

1 - The Attorney General

eum,  PENsadn odn

Dep. AD Inv. — (8) " F
et dis not for diesci-

jm 5 i onse to your request ane ediags by

Cann This document is prepared Mice. Tts use is limited to offioit shorived persoi- u
Ext. Affairs gation ovtst7? roe the content may not be Candee

iles = o aie" G Oe .

pe ances youn out the express approval of the F. fl af
ingen ORIGINAL AND ONE TO AG 4! /
Intell WS ca

Loboretory S) y
Pacer 1.395712) WN G- ny? be
mem gf YQ-MOI TR THOMA LE OT" Ve
Legal Coun. is ted ae A
Telephone Rm. ?

Director See'y— MAIL ROOM] TELETYPE UNIT) fy'V¥ GPO : 1915 0 - 569-820

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 43
oak



OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

December 8, 1975

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Legal Counsel Division i
‘\ Federal Bureau of Investigation
\ ROM:

.Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination : .
’

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Request

Attached is a Senate Select Committee request
seeking delivery of certain Bureau materials. Please
prepare an appropriate response.

I invite your attention to paragraph numbered 4
which amends an earlier request of the Committee (B11iff£
letter of November 25, 1975, Item 6c) which request was
the subject of a telephone conversation on December 3,
with Mr. Seymor Phillips of the Bureau:

ec: Paul Daly

ait cey CONTAINED

HEREWY 19 uy
owned oas IFIED

igs) en

Pree?
NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 44 b 2 4 bo 3

ma JHA



FREAK CHURCH,

JOHN G.-TOWER, TEXAS, VIEE CHAIRMAN

Piegin AttAng, MICH. HOWARD 14, DAKER,

iatren F. MONTALE, MINN, BARRY COLOWAT!

WALTER 0, HUDDLESTON, KY, CHARLES MCC, MAT

ROBERT MORGAN. N.C. RICHARD 8. SCHWEN
‘GARY HART, COLO. .

WILLIAM 6, MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

F.LIDERICK A. 0, SCHWARZy JR, CHIEF COUNSEL,

(GUATIS R. EMOT:ERS, MINORITY COUNSEL,

WMnilean States Denate
SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(punSUANT To 5, RES. 21, HTH CONGRESS)
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 4, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Fsq. i
Special Counsel for Intelligence

- Coordination : 7
aes Office of the Deputy Attorney. General ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
U. S. Department of Justice eRe [oo pcan?
‘Washington, D.C. 20530 7 es nies

Dear Mike:

. The Senate Select Committee requests the
following materials for delivery.

1. Delivery of all materials pertaining
to the circumstances surrounding the
recommendation for, authorization of, :
and duration and termination of the gpa”
electronic surveillance referred to in

Items 1 and 22 of my letter of November

21, 1975 and in materials delivered to

the Committee on December 1, 1975.”

Delivery of a copy of the letter to Mr. : :
Bill Moyers, Special Assistant to the pager™
President, dated October 27,..1964, and : 7
materials reflecting that this letter

was hand delivered by Mr. Cartha DeLoach

on October 28, 1964...

foe
Delivery of all materials pertaining to the ,/."/"
surveillances of Mrs. Anna Chennault in
October and November, 1968.

t
fi

The Committee's request in my letter of
November 27, 1975,item 6c should be revised .
to read as follows: "All memoranda and any Wee? ~
other materials which pertain to, bear upon, :
or indicate any actions taken pursuant to or ~
in connection with the recommendation contained
in this memornadum, including a summary of the
xzecommendations of relevant Bureau personnel
pertaining: thereto."

-

Sincerely, n
- f)
3a 13 R= k

NW 65360 ocis2000600 fo 45,

saree


5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535
Addresse®; SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ctte CRLHM = =(Memo 5) Report anna 12/19/75
- SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE,

Caption of U8. it: 7
12/4/75 request - Martin L, King. -,

Originating Offiee= fo FBI

Date: pe MA Cs SESE

Delivered by:

Received by: : d .
Title: ce a

Return this receipt to the fasetiigener Division, FB! F

Hs inFoRwATON CONTAINED

ut

(Cele (Cas > [4h

ERCLOSUSE

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 46



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 47

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: InteLligentce Community Staff
ATIN: Central Index

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

DOCUMENT BRIEFING INTERVIEW TESTIMONY [otHer 12/19/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

sc

4, IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum and enktosures

+ IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- | 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter|
c, 8, TS or
Codeword)

SSC letter 12/4/75, item 2 s

. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not Listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Information handling

. SUNMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

Materials relating to Martin Luther King, Jr.: Copy of a letter
fron Mr, Hoover to The Honorable William D. Moyers 10/27/64 along
with notation that shows letter vas hand delivered by Mr.
DeLoach 10/28/64.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I 'LASSIFI
62-216395 Lg ed SBA

FMK: fk
(4) ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW 00h

TASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
3791 (6-75) See



VA

INSTRUCTIONS

Type or print clearly in ink.
e Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
e Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information,

e If additions (as when a copy of document sent to §sc is later, sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary,. ubmit, a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated. 7

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY ~ enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. ‘Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

°

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 43 _



SSC LETTER 12~4-75
ITEM 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 19
one Lapa et Sadat fy?

ERT pet:
NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 49 ENCLOSURE


Fos SFP:km3j 5

Sullivan

a
Trotter ——- Fay
Tele. Room —___

, Holmes ens) i ‘i

} Ge SOD F5sO Docid- WIESE ara unrl_Heclassy< ideation

Tavel

1 - Mr. Belmont |

1 - Mr. Mohr !

1 - Mr. DeLoach Ve
+

# xe : L vy
SD peo st SPAN ME : October 27, 1964 ee ay
a
BY LIAISON Sy sf
w
Honorable Willian BD. Moyers 1 - Mr. Evans Py oy Xf \
Special Agsistant to the President 1 - Mr. Rosen v
The White House i - va Sa
been hater: 1l- Mr. Baumgardner
1 - Mr. Phillips

Dear Ur. Hoyers:

& confidentini source of this Bureau who has
supplied veliabic information in the past furnished the
following information concerning a contact on October 23,5. 5
1964, between Martin Wigington and Randolph Biackweli. 7
Wigdneton was described * as a member of the Democratic fen) >
Party Correlation Committee, Austin, Texas. Blackwell
is an assistant to Martan tuathes-King, dc., at the Southern:
Christian Leadership Conference, Atlanta, Georgia.

22 1h

&
=

we HY AT Ui

INRECORDED COME FARR RL 74 7

Wigington indicated t¢ Blackwell a dasive for
King to write "an anti-Goldwater letter" which Wigington's
Counittee intends to distribute in Tezas among labor groups.
Biackwell stated that King may go te Texas prior to the
forthconing presidential ciection and Biackwell inquired
as to whether King would be "in any danger. u Wigington
. Stated that he would contact one Larry Goodman concerning
any possible danger te King in Texas. This Bureau's source
had no information concerning the identity of Goodman.

During this contact Wisington complained to
Blackwell that a group from the Southern Christian Léader-.
ship Conference, which Conference is headed by King, and
a group fron the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher
Workzen of North America had picketed in Fort Worth,
@exas, Wigington stated that this was not a good thing fj
at this time since all Negro and labor organizations should’.

aq
i=J
be working Zor the election of President tyndon B. Johnson. 8 ©

OWS TVNOLLVN

- This information is also being furnished to
o. : ‘27 7 if
iciais jin the Department of of Jus ie Vad coat wii

1002106670 (King)
1-100-442529 (CIRM) -

SEE NOTE PAGE Two NOUS ay

ZION

iat

yeunas

nyptte
Nieto

1
Excluded fron automatic
gownsrad and

N ae
| NOILVWaOuNI



NOTE: : aecers Penge
sey xt a ay oo

Classified " "as information reported is
from AT 1380- =S*, a highly sensitive source with respect
to the-racial~ sit uation, This source if of continuing :
value and the unauthorized disclosure of this information'
could compromise its effectiveness and*thus be detrimental ~
to the national defense, Information obtained from Atlanta - ’
nade 10/23/64. eee isuuEsUEEESOSELEREBEGEE! JenESEEEEEEEEE Pepe ere

| NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 51.- |



Mr. Bassett ~— Encs.

1 -
1 - Mr. Cleveland - Encs.
1 - Mr. Gallagher - Encs.
= pe J. 1 1 - Mr. McDermott - Encs.
© Attorpéy Genera: e
; 1- mr, mpeeesbeg, gs, 1975
”” 1+ Mr. Walsh - Encs.
5 1 - Mr. Wannall - Encs.
1 - Mr. Hotis - Encs. {
1 - Mr. Daly - Encs. yw
4 Tae ATTORNEY GENERAL : fs
ORE ma SENAGE SELECT COMMITIRE ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED '
on INTELLIGENCE ACTIVETIES . _ ISAINGPASSIFI ea
Ys
,
on Kovember 21, 1975 Inspector John B. Hotis of this ©

Bureau met with Doug Marvin, Counselor to the Attorney Generals
Haxk Wolf, Special Assistant to the Attorney General; and Michael E.
Shaheen, dr.,; Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, 7 gs
concerning your forthcoming appearance before the Senate | Nd
Select Committee on Intelligence Activities. At this meeting

this Bureau was requested te provide write-ups on certain. phases

of this Bu¢ean's operations which are to be used in the preparatio!
ef a briefing book for your testimony. anne

Attached ate the following individual write-ups
requested on November 21, 1975: *Investigative Techni:
*Qrganizational Structure and Punctions of the FRI"; *
ef Misconduct Layelving Special Agent in Charge, Miami Office*;
*Director Hoover's ‘Official and Confidential’ (OC) Files":
“Allegations of Possible Misconduct by FBI Agents, Houston, &
fexzas’; "Allegations of Personal and Official Misconduct of a S
Former Spectal Agent in Charge of the Baltimore Office";

“Allegation of Bribery by FEI Agent, New York"? "Allegation of
Possible Hisconduct by an FBI Agent, Detroit, Michigan”; ‘YP
*aliegations ef Misconduct by FBI Agents, Riclmsond, Virginia,

eld. Office, in Connection with the fnvestigation.of Illegal y
Wiretapping by the Richmond, Virginia, Police Bepartment* ;
"Allegations of Violations of Gun Gontrol Act hy FBI Agent’; * *-
“payiew of Appropriations Testimony for Fiscal: Years 1955

thre 1976"; “Fenure of PEI Director"; “Transfer of Drug .
_ Enforcement Responsibilities to the FBI°; “Office ef Special

Review, Department of Justice’; and “Sajox Topics of Primary S ae
Concern to Congressional Committees.*

oP 9 GA-1/6395- aH
ponerse ' With respect. oo Uda BE? bee edged :
of Hark L. Wolf, Special Assistant te the Attorney Genera.

: / #2 DEC 29,1975 4
VD :dkg 2) 1 SEE NOTE ~ PAGE: 2...
~ DM ga M895 — ye

Inspection
Intell, —_*

Legal Coun,

Telephone Rm.

gy a ROOM TELETYPE UNIT [_]
; 2989602 Page 52

GPO : 1975 0 - 569-920

of


—“ .

.

Lom. _
@he Attorney General —

-NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 53

to Inspector John 8. Hotis of this office dated Novenber 26,

1975, which requested additional infortation, we are gathering
the necessary material on an expeditious basis and the results
will be furnished as soon as possible.

-Enclosures (15) /

1 ~ Ghe Deputy Attorney General :
Ateantion: Michael £. Shaheen, Jr. - Enclosures (15)
. Special Counsel for Intelligence |
Coordination .

pee tree

NOTE: See Legal Counsel Memorandum to Mr. J. B. Adams dated |
11-24-75, captioned "Testimony By The Attorney General Before |;
The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities.” On -'|
121-75 Mark Wolf, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
requested the attached information be furnished as. soon as
possible. No later than’12-2-75. This response was coordinat

and incorporates material prepared by the Inspection, Special
Investigative, General Investigative, Files and Communications, %
and Intelligence Divisions. Due to the time constraints we i.
.are furnishing interim response. As completed additional,
material will be furnished to the Department. :

i
é


2-Mr J. A. Mintz

(1 = Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar

The AttHprney General January 14, 1976
1 - Mr. V. R. Thornton
ye
ah Director, FBI 62 Mga? I LOKI
i
: : ALL INFORMA

U.S. : HEREN Syncope
ON INJELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) Ban Y.

Reference is made to SSC letters dated December 4,

1975, and November 25, 1975, containing requests for materials 2
concerning Martin Luther King, Jr. y

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the SSC 3
is an original of a memorandum in response to Item 4 in the ~
December 4, 1975, request and Items 7c and 8c of the November 25,
1975, request. fae

is-

Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the
memorandum which is being delivered to you with the material
which is being furnished to the SSC.

Enclosures (2)

Oep+

oar

1 - The Deputy. Attorney General £N

Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr. 3

Special Counsel for wi)

Intelligence Coordination aa

| a—

aX VRT:adn @.

ae v9) ms
rd NOTE:

Copies of SSC letters 11/25/75 and 12/4/75 are :
attached to the file copy of enclosed LHM. Arrangements have
-keen.made for a representative of the Legal Counsel Division
€6 deliver the attached memorandum as well as documents being
provided to the SSC Copies. of material being furnished to SSC Gg
being retained»with mstidy 75 Project. . 5

awit 4 3 Skea A\s

rst a mC] TELETYPE UNIT im) v $ + i €

Director Sec’, M.
AGAR Bia: 02 Page 54


rhe

Assos, Dire
Dep. AD Adm. —

Comp. Syst. —
Ext, Affairs

Telephone Rm. —
Director See'y —

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 55
See ee

, ee

2-Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 (1-Mr. J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar
1 - Mr. V. R. Thornton

§2=116395 ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BEBE Btwn? Somsary 14, 1976

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated December 4, 1975,
Item 4. of which requests materials concerning Martin Luther
King, Jr.3 and SSG letter dated November 25, 1975, Items 7c and
8e of wnich request materials concerning the Washington Spring
Project and Sanitation Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee,
respectively.

The purpose of this memorandum is to effect delivery
to the SSC of materials in response to referenced requests.

In respect to Item 4 of the December 4, 1975, request,
the only indication of any action taken concerning the recommend-
ation contained in the pertinent memorandum dated March 29, 1963,
captioned, “Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist-Hate
Groups, Racial Intelligence (Martin Iuther King)" is the
pencilled notation “Handled 4/3/68," appearing on page one and
initials which are believed to be those of former Special Agent
(SA) Harold P. Leinbaugh. Among the documents being furnished
the SSC is a memorandum dated July 18, 1975, captioned,

“Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.," along with supporting documents,
which were submitted to the Attorney General concerning back-
ground leading up to the proposed action recommended in the
Narch 29, 1968, memorandum. It includes results of an inter~
view of Leinbaugh,

In response to Item 7c, the only indication of ony
action taken concerning the suggestion (recommendation) con
tained in the memorandum dated March 26, 1968, captioned,
“Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist-Hate Groups,
Racial Intelligence (Washington Spring Project)" is the pencilled
notation “Handied 4/4/68," appearing on page two of that memo~
xandum and initials which are believed fe be, those of former
SA Leinbaugh, TAN ak art

Bon MK pr”
2

£ is prepared in resbonsesto your request and. is not for at's

your Committee, Its use is limited to official proce
ard the content may not be disclosed to wnaufitorized

notion an
dod wi he eapress approval of the FBI . (
Nibet/ ORIGINAL AND ONE TO AG prt J \

MAIL ROOM(—] TELETYPE uNIT C_] enmas! WA T oy fee a. i 7 ah O'R



® a.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

With respect to Item 8c which concerns a memorandum
dated March 28, 1968, captioned, “Sanitation Workers Strike,
Memphis, Tennessee, Racial Matters," the only indication of
action taken concerning the recommendation contained therein
is a pencilled notation appearing on page one, "Handled
3/28/68," and initials which again are believed to be
those of former SA Leinbaugh.

1 - The Attorney General

; NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 56



ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 19 UNLASSIFI
DATEL 0 py ROAM?

ee en ee ee ee

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

a WASHINGTON, D.C, 20535
| Addressee: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
LTR XOULHM (Memo (Report dated 1/14/76

Caption of Dut Sehu:SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE »

12/4/75 request Item 4
11/25/75 request Items 7c and 8C) 4

Priginating 9) 3 FBI
Delivered by: re) y. a= Date: /4G24

Received by:

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

| smasme, (y2-//b3 25" |MUOK

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 57
niu



oF

TE; " SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE A “BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Community Staff
ATTN: Central Index

SUBJECT: ‘Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

pocuwent [omer ine | Luntenview |] vestinowy | [ommae 1/14/76

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

sc

. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum and enclosures

IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- | 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter|

U, C, S, TS or
SSC letter 12/4/75, Item 4 and SSC letter 11/25/75, “*""?
Items 7e and 8¢ U

« KEY WoRDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not Listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Operating Procedures
Information Handling

. SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

Delivery of materials regarding Martin Lather King, Jr., and
the Washington Spring Project and the Sanitation Workers Strike,
Memphis, Tennessee, respectively.

ALL INFORMATION Sta
HEREIN 1S NS
DAT

62-116395,

AJD:Uhb ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
(4) IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75.

TREAT AS YELLOW

3791 (6-78) CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
. way ONT >>. -
PAE. 9 - Wb SKS at

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 58



e Type or print clearly in ink.
e Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
e Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information. , .

e If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence:Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

[oe .

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 59


NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 60

SSC REQUEST 12-4-75
ITEM 4

ALL ny

VFORMATI
HEREN THON Cony
pare 26 Sr

Lae pi - (HOEK

ENCLOSURE,



etttovnt 1084 Ko. 10 108 ~
Saevees eation
BM Gt, REG. RO, 27 Toleon

DeLoach zx

a
GOVERNMENT : Moby
Bishop

Memorandum ; : pee

Conrad
Felt
Gale

To: Mr. W. C, sulzavahD DATE: March 29, 1968 . Sita

Tavel

yy AUNITED STATES’

Trotter

Tele. Room
FROM : G, Cc, woore/@ 4 ‘s Holmes

Gandy

CBLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS Bi es. ¢
“RACIAL INTELLIGENCE oer
(MARTIN LUTHER KING)

: wy la fo:
sumer Cg, t of te A heseg & :
\-COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM {GO NIAINED or , q ini
aa q i
Uy Us

PURPOSE:

To publicize hypocrisy or the part of Martin Luther
King,

BACKGROUND:

a Martin Luther King has urged Negroes in Memphis,
Tennessee, to boycott white merchants in order to force
compliance with Negro demands in the sanitation workers'
strike in Memphis.

When violence broke out during the march King led
in. Memphis on 3-28-68, King disappeared, There is a first
class Negro hotel in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine, but King
chose to hide out at the white owned and operated Holiday Inn aD
Motel. : :

RECOMMENDATION:

The above facts have been included in the attached
blind memorandum and it is recommended it be furnished a
cooperative news media source by the Crime Records Division
for an item showing King is a hypocrite. This will be done on
ahighly confidential basis. : mo

Enclosure

WM Tre

1 - Mr. C, D. DeLoach
1 - Mr. T, E, Bishop’"?#:
1 - Mr. W. C. Suilivan >

1- Mr. GC. Moore

1 - Mr, D, Ryan (Mass. Media) Fd
1 a

A
SEATS RLY HA I TS PRT ET LEH

are LE 1388

Pa Tye Te-

-~ Mr, T. J, Deakin ideeeeey

2 iy Vy ‘
{ ee

ae ney Hues od ds 5h ar in“roononse to, yourvrequest and é issemt.
—n i +) . Yourrequest and is not fod dissemi-

gkion ortside, your Committee. Its-use is Yimi in i
® Commtiptdrabarthe content mig not be deoolcen Co icitl proceedings by pat
iene tb : ”
(oii e“ckipress approval oF the Fey —— a icone 0 wersag { had

PARDO»

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 61
Sadie ania a



March 29, 1968
BO AS I SAY, NOT AS I BO

Martin Luther King, during the sanitation workers'
strike i. Memphis, Tennessee, has urged Negroes to boycott.
downtown white merchants to achieve Negro demands, On 3-29-68

» King led a march for the sanitation workers, Like Judas leading
lambs to slaughter King led the marchers to violence, and when
. the violence broke out, King disappeared.

The fine Hotel Lorraine in Memphis is owned and
patronized exclusively by Negroes but King didn't go there
from his hasty exit, Instead King decided the plush Holiday
Inn Motel, white owned, operated and almost exclusively white
patronized, was the place to “cool it." There will be no
boycott of white merchants for King, only for his followers.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

He ABE Sano

CG- LL! Ve ee

~gLOSURE

nwredéo vochiizossclP! page GG" | PR TT re ese stem ce
1.65360 Docld: 32989602


emer 3

sium

: 1- J. B. Adams
7 1-W. R. Wannall
1 - D. Ryan
‘Ribgg 1- qu G. Deegan

| Gu foo fb CC fo— 396 oy ouly 18, 1975

DR. MARTIN ees KING, JR. pyri A. Newman
RMAT!
HEREIN 1 nh \ CONTANED,

DA 10 Ci

The following information is submitted regarding the
background Leading up to the proposed action recommended in
mesorandum G. C. Hoore to Mr. W. G. Sullivan dated March 29,

1968, captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist
Hate "Groups, Raclal Intelligence, (Martin iuther King)."
(eopy attached)

This memorandum recommended that information be
furnished to a cooperative news media source by the Crine
Records Division of the Federal Burean of Investigation feet) |
showing King as a hypocrite, This was to be based on the fact
that when violence broke out during a march led by King in
Memphis Tennessee, on March 28, 1968, he disappeared. There
was a flest class Negro hotel in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine,
but Eling chose to hide out in a white owned and operated
Holiday Inn Hotel (also Imown as the Rivermont Motel).

A notation on the above referred to menorandm
indicated that the recommendation was “handled" on April 3,
1968, by Hr. Herold P. Leinbaugh of the Crime Records Divigion.
(see "notation on memorandum dated March 295 1968, attached)

By way. of background it should be noted that at about
6 pem. on April 4, 29 68, while standing on second floor balcony
\ outside room 306 of the Hotel Lorraine, Memphis, Tennessee, -
@v King” was shot and killed.

“Memphis teletype dated April 2, 1968, reflects that
King a end other Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC)
auee.vv,__Officlals were due to arrive in Memphis at 10:15 a.m. on
m@ fiovil 3, 1968, via Eastern Airlines” from Atlanta. (copy of
his teletype Gated April 2, 1968, attached) «1:7... .
Pt tm pe
Comp: Syst, After King's death, an intérview with Rever ond Ralph
&.aicin —DQVid Abernathy, a close assoctate of King, reflected that he
wet kom -and King registered iad: the Hotel Torraine in Memph: S :

L2aqMUUMOD «oh aprsy0 Uomou

* laa 242 fo qwaosddn ssaudua ayy ynoyzar
uassip Lof 20u 82 pun ysanbab Lnoh 0} asuodsas Ue paundosd sy yuaunoop Svy.J,

DazLoygnnun 03 Pasoposyp 2q 40U fimuL yuaquoD oYy2 PUD soIquUUoD snoh

2dI04LE JOIU{JO 0} pazvUa] Sr ASN S27

Up

NES
7 shu

en — ah

TED ee
Viewer —HANtcah (8) een’ ets iw "Soe wore PAGE 3 ie
Pion & Evol BX ae a wa

pews ae eo wy OW:
ire ROUTE, 1 CPN VE cin oe

NW 65360 Dotid:32989607 Page 63 ~

[een eee SE



De, Martin Luther King, Jr.

femessee, at about 10:30 a.m. on April 3, 1968. (Information
contained in report of SA doe C. Hester dated April 17, 1968,
Memphis, captioned "UHSUB, aka, Eric Starvo Calt, et al., Civil
Rights" pege 48. See attached FD-302 vePlecting interview with
Reverend Ralph David Abernathy).

For further background regarding the basis of this
proposal Atlanta teletype dated March 28, 1968, cantioned
“Martin Luther King, Jr., SM-C' with second caption "Sanitation
Workers Strike, Memphis, Tenmessee, Racial Matters" reflects
that on March 38, 1968, King and other SCLC people were in
room 801, Holiday Inn, Memphis, Tennessee, at 4:30 nem. (copy
of Atlanta teletype attached) F :

A Memphis teletype dated March 29, 1968, captioned
"Sanitation Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee, Racial Matters"
reflects that Eing participated in the march of sanitation
workers on March 28, 1968. ‘When violence erupted including
the breaking of windows and looting by the marchers, King and
a few associates ran to a nearby car and left the march
proceeding to Rivermont Motel where they remained through the
afterrioon and evening. (copy of Memphis teletype attached)

On duly 17, 1975, Mr. Harold P. Leinbaugh, after
having had all the facts set out above reviewed with hin
“ aineluding the fact his notation of "handled" appeared on the
March 29, 1965, memorandim, advised that he has absolutely no
{recollection of this memorandum and can wnhesitantly state
that he cannot now recall whether or not proposed information
twas ever disseminated to any news media source. He indicated
that his notation "handled" would not necessarily mean that
Ane did disseminate this information. In explaining this he
Nstated that the notation could mean that he was merely clearing
' this document through Crime Records Division and at this late
Gate there would be absolutely no way that he could make any
positive statements as to whether or not the information
recommended was ever disseminated to a news media source.

From the above recorded sequence of events as
reflected in various communications identified above, it is
evident that King returned to Memphis, Tennessee, from Atlanta

“2m

NW’ 65360 Docld:3298902 Page 64



1

: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

on April 3, 1968, and checked into the Hotel Lorraine at
approximately 10:30 a.m. The notation indicating that the
proposed furnishing of information to the news media was
"handled" on April 3, 1968, would, of course, preclude any
such information from appearing in the press prior to King's
checking into the Hotel Lorraine at approximately 10:30 a.m.
on April 3, 1968. Steet

A veview of appropriate files maintained at FBI
Headquarters fails to reflect any newspaper article which
could haye been an outgrowth of the proposed recommendation
contained in the G. C. Meore memorandum to Mr. W. C. Sullivan
dated March 29, 1968.

: A review of the "Memphis Commercial Appeal" for the
1:7") yperiod March 28 to April 4, 1968, maintained on microfilm in
coe the Library of Congress failed to reflect any article which
would appear to be an outgrowth of the proposed recommendation
contained in G. C. Moore memorandum to Mr. W. ¢. Sullivan
Gated March 29, 1968. References were noted indicating that
xing held a press conference at the Holiday Inn Rivermont
Motel on Mavch 29, 1968. .

.° Enelosures (5)

NOTE:

: See memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R. Wannall,
dated 7/18/75, captioned as above, prepared by HAN/cah.

—NW-65360_Docld:32989602. Page 65



 @ . EF i t -.

|
|

J ett

‘Memorandum

Mr. W. C. Sullivah;
ao

me i : ¢

DATE: March 29, 1968

oM :” : ipa
Gc, woore@_—~ ALL as CONTAINED
HEREIN | iN LASSIFIED

ina Aiea an
RECT Ce PROGRAM

.. BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS z
VRACIAL INTELLIGENCE ; . Sy :
(MARTIN LUTHER KING)
PURPOSE: : ‘ : :
To publicize hypocrisy on the part of Martin Luther f
King. ‘ : - 88288 i
: 2SSe - &
. BACKGROUND: . os : “Baka
. Martin Luther King has urged Negroes in Memphis, S§e8 ;
Tennessee, to boycott white merchants in order to force SS SS d
-compliance with Negro demands in the sanitation workers‘ sees: 4
strike in Memphis, : east
: : Bessy
‘+ - When violence broke out during the march King ued So08 |
ain Memphis on 3-28-68, King disappeared. There is a first BSSS A
‘| class Negro hotel in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine, but King gg§& i
chose to hide out at the white owned and operated Holiday Tae SS oF
Motel. Beeee sae “REP a fi
a é : an ok
- RECONMENDATION: SE S838 |
The above facts have been included in the attache¥s gs ° Hi
biind memorandum and it is recommended it be furnished a 2888, i
cooperative news media source by the Crime Records Divisio gery ]
for an item showing King is a hypocrite, This will be done~ens§
ahighly confidential basis. . &&3
Enclosure Ve : ve g phy
TID: ted f Pues eI
(7) Rhee vb: aufie FE
1+ Mr. C, Ds DeLoach R \ se my ga
1 - Mr. T. E, Bishop’ aay ene Met S88:
1 - Mr. W. C, Sullivan’ “y C26 GD) eke
1 - Mr. GC. Moore cea = i afé>
1 - Mr. D. Ryan (Mass Media) 8 fy
1~ Mr. T, J, Deakin - ees

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 66


petted ( : e :
ree, ‘eo 1 March 29, 1968"

DO AS I SAY, NOT AS I DO

. Martin Luther King,! during the sanitation workers
strike in Memphis, Tennessee, has urged Negroes to boycott
sowntown white merchants to achieve Negro demands, On 3~29-68
King led a march for the sanitation workers. Like Judas leading
lambs. to slaughter King led the marchérs to violence, and when
the violence broke out, King disappeared,

The fine Hotel Lorraine in Memphis is owned and
patronized exclusively by Negroes but King didn't go there
‘£rom his hasty exit. Instead King decided the plush Holiday

_ Inn Motel, white owned, operated and almost exclusively white
patronized, was the place to “cool it." There will be no
boycott of white merchants for King, only for his followers,

: au’ enrol ‘onraNeD

HEN aia

“NW 65360" ‘Dacid!32989602 Pa
i a



weep

a

pereneerars

esi

agate natin Aen

ar ee EE Ca

t'65360, Docld:32989602 “Pagac6e ae

. |

FBL WASH DC

i |

FBI MEMPHIS
MDRGENT 4-2-68 SAB

OIRECTOR . 7 dl DAT

FROM MEMPHIS 157-1092 3?

aCtat ic
SANITATION WORKERS STRIKE, MEMPHIS, TENN., = ourttind

7 ON APRIL TWO, NINETEEN SIXTY “EIGHT, LT. E. H. ARKIN, MEMPHIS
FCN GE Seer

PR, TESPECTIONAL BUREAU, ADVISED THAT THE FUNERAL OF LARRY PAYNE,

AOA + i

SEVENTEEN YEAR ‘OLD NEGRO WHO WAS SHOT BY NEMPHIS PD OFFIGER jae
AFTER STORE LOOTING GROWING OUT OF MARCH TWENTY EIGHT RACIAL
‘DISTURBANCE , MEMPHIS, WAS WELD, “WITHOBT INGIDENT, AT CLAYBORN |
TEMPLE , MENPHIS. ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED IN ATTENDANCE DESPITE FACT
CHURCH “CAN SEAT TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED. BODY INTERRED IMMEDIATELY

AFTER FUNERAL. ARKIN ADVISED THAT ANOTHER SANITATION . : 4
WORKERS SYMPATHY MARCH is “cHEDuLED FOR DOWNTOWN PCCD e! ; i
OF APRIL TWO. | 07- LI26 seg Geeeaas

Not NOT RECORDS 7
EASTERN AIRLINES ADVISED ON APRIL TWO THAR REY .oMABI IN ‘LUTHER.

CING, JR., AND SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLO> AIDES

RALPH D. ABERNATHY, BERNARD LEE, AND ANDREW M. YOUNG DUE NE
HEMPHIS TEN. ae A.M., APRIL THREE, FROM emulate wacenee bene Gans

gl a ‘
‘ 2, Yospslens 4 APR 31968
gnentas prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi.
nove Committee. Its use is limited to witiael peovecttigs br)
Sen the content may not bé disclosed to unauthorized pey
Cp, express approval of they, FBI. 7 d tf

Gaeluded -
and attosaey. pas :


_ | Oe APRIL TWO A SOURCE ADVISED THAT AT A PRESS CONFERENCE ar
GLAYBORN TEMPLE, APRIL TWO, REV. JESSE JACKSON OF SCLC‘S “OPERATION —
i BREAD BASKET," REV. S$. B. KYLES OF METROPOLITAN BAPTIST CHURCH,
NENPHIS, AWD REV. EDWARD L. BROWN, MT. PISGAH CME CHURCH, ADVISED
TUAT WITH SCLC PERSONNEL IN MEWPHIS “THAT NIGHTLY MASS STRIKE
SUPPORT MEETINGS WILL BE RESUMED, THE FIRST AT MASON TEMPLE ON —
RIGHT OF APRIL THREE WITH KING AS FEATURED SPEAKER. THEY SAID
MASS NARCH VILL BE WELD FRIDAY, APRIL FIVE, AWD THAT THEY WILL
WAVE SCHOOL GHILDREN PARTICIFATE SINCE WASCHING WITH "MARTIN LUTHER
KING, IR., THE GREATEST LIVING AMERICAN ;” WOULD BE MORE EDUCATIONAL
TRAN BEING IN SCHOOL. wHeN ASKED BY PRESS IF KING WOULD PERSONALLY
MARCH, JACKSON SAIY KING MIGHT NOT MARCH. HE DID NOT ELABORATE.
WHESL ASKED JF SCLC GROUP WOULD VIOLATE A POSSIBLE INJUNCTION

AGAINST: THEIR MARCHING, JACKSON SAID “THE WHITE MAN HAS ALREADY
ENJOINED THE BLACK MAN TO THE GHETIO AND THE WHITE MAN DOESN ‘T

“NEED TO VALIDATE ‘TF, BY SENDING BS A PIECE GF PAPER.” KYLES SAID THE ©
PROBLEN FACING MEMPHIS 18 NOT MILITANT BLACK YOUTH BUT Is

4 WHITE aacssn.” UNCKSON DESCRIGED OPERATION BREAD BASKET AS MASSIVE
END PAGE Two WIL inet



| DREVE To PERCE ALL ‘GROCERS If NEGRO AREA TO CEASE SELLING HART‘S
| f

‘

| BREAD, WONDER BREAD, COCA COLA, AND SEALTEST DAIRY PRODUCTS
"AS THESE. FIRMS DO HOT HIRE SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF NEGROES.
ON APRIL TWO LT.. ARKIN ADVISED THAT MEMPHIS CITY OFFICIALS ARE
- CONSIDERING SEEKING A COURT INJUNCTION PROMIBITING ANY MASS MARCH ° *:
LED BY KING OR AN IWSUNCTLON SPECIFYING CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH A MARCH
COULD TAKE PLACE AND ALSO CONSIDERING RESUMPTIOW OF A CURFEW AND
- PLACING STRIKE SUPPORT LEADERS UNDER f PEACE AND FINANCIAL
* " RESPONSTEILITY BOND; _
ARKIN ADVISED THAT REMAINDER OF TENNESSEE NATIONAL GUARD,
= WITH EXCEPTION OF ONE BATTERY CONSISTING OF TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY.
“THREE OFFICERS AKD MEN OF THE MEMPHIS GUARD NTT, RAVE LEFT MEMPHIS.
AT THREE ZERO FIVE PM, SIXTY SANITATION WORKERS AND SYMPATHIZERS
"DEPARTED CLAYBORN TEMPLE CARRYING PLACARDS FOLLOWING THEIR USUAL
: "PARADE MARCH TO BEALE STREET NORTH ON MAIN TO CITY HALL. NO
te eee REPORTED. = ne

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 70


a : at x

}
1
i a ‘

ea Esae teeter ; 2 ALL INFORMATION coma
d iaieteeeet! ; HE BD UNCLASSIF
.. ; | FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION DAT sy pbb)ob »

|
: “A ril 8, 1968

Reverend RA
Atlanta, ¢ Or Zi. licé Department
HE 10355 p.m, April 4, 1988. Reverend ABERNATHY Was advised of
the Agent's identity and of the nature of the matter under investiga-
tion. A ‘|

Reverend ABERNATHY, who described himself as Vice President
at Large and Treasurer of tke Southern Christian Leadership
Conference, stated he was Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR,'s closest
associate and stated that he and Dr. KING always shared a room ---
whensver they travelled together. He stated that at about 10:30 a.mi/
on April 3, 1968, he and Dr. KING registered at the ‘Lorraine Motel,
Mephis, Tennessee.

: Reverend ABERNATHY stated that on April 4, 1968, he and Dr.
KING did not leave the motel and spent most of the day in their
Yeon, #396, lacsted an the saeond flaor of the motel,

He stated that he and Dr. KING had been gore from their room for
approximately one hour or less when they returned to the room at
About 5:30 p.m. He said tkey got dressed as they were going to
dinner at the home of Reverend BILLY KYLE and that at almost exactly
6 p.m. they started to leave the pce Reverend ABERNATHY stopped
‘for a moment and Dr. KING walked out onto thse balcony just outside
the door to his room, Reverend ABERNATHY was still inside the
motel room but could hear Dr, KiNG discuszing the dinner engagement
with other associates who Reverend ABERNATHY believes were standing
in the parking area of the motel underneath and to the front of the
-balcony on Which Dr. KING was standing. : 7

Reverend ABERNATHY stated he heard what sounded like a fire~
cracker and then heard the screams of persons to whom Dr. KING had
been talking. Reverend ABERNATHY went then to the balcony and dis-
covered Dr. KING lying there tvounded in the right side of the face

.and neck. He said ke believed De. KING attempted to speak to him’
but was unable to do so. Reverend ABERNATEY said he instructed
someone to call an ambulance and then accompanied Dr. KING in the
ambulance to the hospital where Dr. KING subsequently died.

‘This document is reared m response to your request and is not for diss.

‘Suse is limited to official proceedings
aa “Committee and the content 4 y not be disclosed to unauthorized phil
ea without the express approval of the FBI « 7

On 4/4/68 at Memphis, Tennessee File # Memphis 44-1987
by SA JOE C, BESTER: bn Date dictated 4/8/68 ___

Thie document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

— nw. E3368 Botid PREP BAS YT Rot to be distributed outside your agency. os



ME #44-1897

a Reverend ABERNATHY stated that judging from the sound
of the noise it appeared that the shot came from directly in
front of the door and not from any great distance. He stated
he did not observe anything that would indicate who fired the
Bhot. Reverend ABERNATHY also stated that while they were in
. the motel room Dr, KING did not, to his knowledge, receive any
telephone calls of a threatening nature or calls frem persons
Who would not identify themselves, Reverend ABERNATHY said
Dr, KING had not feared that any particular persons might
harm him and Reverend ABERNATEY wzs unable to suggest any
Buspects or to provide any other information which might
assist in pee nee Dr. KING's Sera

—nw.65360_tlbcid:32989402 Page 72° "HI:

ipiairidal ce



ALL INFORMATION § dommes

HEREIN
DA rebBoe sre

He “ODO. , \
-' MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR», SM-C.

_ SANITATION WORKERS STRIKE, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE.
| ee

FK Act 5

(g} (21 (0)

POLITICL EDUCATION, .SCLC [CURRENTLY IN ATLANTA, WHO DURING LATE

BEFORE WITH HOSEA ¥ LLIAMS » DIRECTOR OF VOTER REGISTRATION AND
er ns

ARTE: QQN MARCH TWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHT, CONFERRED TELEPHONICALLY
WITH MeRTIN LUTHER KING, JRey PRESIDENT, cee ee D Yaperwarny , j
VIGE_P PRESIDENT. AND TEASURERs, -SCLC3 AND BERNARD LEE, SPECIAL AIDE

|| $0 2HE PRESIDENT, SCLC. ;
el - KING, ABERNATHY, AND LEE ARE CURRENTLY IN ROOM EIGHT ZERO ONE,
| HOLIDAY INN, MEMPHIS. l ,

| so WITH REFERENCE TO RACIAL DISTURBANCE IN NEMPHIS MARCH

ENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHT, KING IS EXTREMELY DEJECTED. HE AND ©
Flatiiind deta sanbobohabaieombesanaes
ABERNATHY STRONGLY FEEL DISTURBANCE ON THIS DATE DELIBERATELY PLANNED

ga EX: BERS Polbbe PnBOIG oy

: pee Leese is pre epared in response to youn rea requpat and ts | is not for mas
el —_ nation ovtstte, vor ‘onumvittee. ts uses lig ictal proceedteys by
of $5 1 te 38 yy your Conniz’’ 2 avid the content may nob be pest? Whihcanshoriced inersot
\ : :

nel without the express approval of the FBI «

oe EEE)

pees Page 73


PAGE Two :
BY NEGROES WHO ARE NEITHER SYMPATHETIC TO KING OR SCLC. IDENTITY

OF SUCH INDIVIDUALS NOT KNOWN, ©

ABERNATHY, LEE AND WILLIAMS ARE GREATLY CONCERNED FOR
WELFARE .OF KING, PARTICULARLY ON NIGHT OF MARCH TWENTYEIGHT,
SIXTYEIGHT, WHEN HE EXPECTS TO PARTICIPATE IN MARCH OR DEMONSTRATION
“WITH SANITATION WORKERS. AT PRESENT TIME KING DOES NOT FEEL HE SHOULD

steams Sime aA est LCR nano

delle,

LEAVE MEMPHIS. DURATION OF STAY AND FURTHER DETAILS IN THIS

recat...

CONNECTION NOT KNOWN. :
ACCORDING TO WILLIAMS, HE, ABERNATHY, AND LEE STRONGLY FEEL

SAME BLEVENTS WHICH CAUSED DISTURBANCE iN MEMPHIS EARLIER MARCH

wall,

TWENTYEIGHT may CAUSE PERSONAL HARM TO KING EVENING OF MARCH

TWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHT.
INFORMATION FROM AT

MUST BE CLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL. “MEMPHIS, HOWEVER, SHOULD ADVISE LOCAL AUTHORITIES IF _
NGT ALRESDY KNOWN THAT KING CONTEMPLATES PARTICIPATING IN MARCH OR
DEMONSTRATION EVENING OF MARCH IWENTYEIGHT AND THAT IN VIEW OF EARLIER
DISTURBANCES IN MEMPHIS ON THIS DATE, SEVERAL RANKING SCLC OFFICIALS

APPREHENSIVE FOR PERSONAL WELFARE OF KING.



PAGE THREE

FOREGOING INFORMATION TELEPHONICALLY FURNISHED MEMPHIS MARCH

TWENTYEIGHT, SIXTYEIGHT.

RECEIVED: 11:39PM RM

«et

W 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 75



ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN {6 UNCLASSIFI 7
Lode Se au?

oe

0 RE NER
FOLLOWING ZS SUMMARY OF MARCH TWENTY EIGHT ACTIVITIESs

OE,

fis
mG

PHIS TELS, MARCH TW

Z

j tr esas
: He ARKIN, INSPECTIONAL BUREAUS Se
; Boke
3 7 THE MASS MARCH TO BE LED BY eee
Sy S238
| Ton ¥ 29 seh
+ ; ae WORKES 8 fe 7
STARTED AT AROUND ELEVEN AM CST WITH ESTIMATED FIVE T9SIX BAY i

&
TEENAGERS. MARCH =

cud

STARTED AT CLAYBORY TEMPLE, LOCATED HEART OF NEGRO AREA, AND ¢
at —
KING JOINED MARCH AFTER IT PROGRESSED ONE BLOCK. HE WALKED wine
7. ial eat

=

09 asuodsou WRpO>

MARCHERS TO VICINITY BEALE AND MAIN STREETS, MADE NO SPEECHES §&

%

ro]
EG

vay) 88

alenyoh
el

waisfo 03 pay

of ou 8? pun vr

PRIOR TO MARCH, MADE NO KNOWN UTTERANCES DURING MARCH, AND“BY
BREAKING OF STORE WINDOYS

tl | TIME HE REACHED ABOVE POINT &,

03 pasoy:

AND LOGTING WAS BEING PERPETR Y MARCHERS, WHEREUPON KING

(b&

THOzLoygnnen

AND A FEW ASSOCIATES RAN TOA NEARBY CAR AND LEFT MARCH, PROCEED

MOTEL WHERE THEY RE NED. THROUGH AFTERNOON AND

HOON, POLICE HAD BROXZN UP CROWD, BEING FORCED TO US
an 8

So

wads -otetts

—— for nEconpan*
Be oo N62-APR A “TEE

iw'Pdd APR bo4Q6Goe 76



PAGE TWO : : I :

: i jo Fe
AND EVENING, PRIMARILY CONFINED TO SOUTH CENTRAL AREAS
- ae
: PREDOMINANTLY NEGRO

LiquesSToREs AND SMALL GROCERIES.

: LEGI SLATURE TODAY PASSED CURFEW PILL, WHICH
Y MEMPHIS MAYOR HENRY LOEB, EFFECTIVE SEVEN PM, 4s
SSEE NATIONAL GUARDSMEN FROM MEMPHIS

_|AND WEST TENNESSEE ARE CURRERTLY OW BUTY IN MERP

i
i |TACTICAL UNITS, BEING ACCOMPANIED $M THEIR PATROLS B
OF MENPRIS PD.

i LUG
SCHEDULED MASS RALLY TO FEATURE KC"C3 NIGHT OF MARCH TWENTY

f CANCELED. AT TWELVE MIDNIGHT, MARCH TWENTY EIGHT, THREE

tf pacers
| HUNDRED" ARRES ESTS, Pr RIMARILY RELATING TO LOOTING AND CURFEW VIOLATIONS
i HAVE BEEN MADE BY POLICE DEPT, FOUR INDIVIDUALS : :
2 HAVE BEEN SHOT, ONE OF THESE, A SIXTEEN: YEAR oLD BOY, WAS KILLED
+ IN ACT OF LOOTING A STORE. THREE OTHERS WERE SHOT, TWO BY
i JPOLICE OCFICERS AND ONE BY A STOREXEEPER WHILE LOOTING, NONE

SERICUSLY INJURED.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 77 sxe eee



HAGE THREE ca : . Wis

|| BERRARDALE

{
t

i

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 78 Ce ;

‘ZERO THREE PM EST. THIS ALSO CANCELS KING'S AND LEE'S FLIGHT
\ From ATLANTA SIX T

!

” . CORR_#A

EASTER# AIR : : ie AND
> FAILED TO LEAVE HEMPHIS ON EASTERN;FLIGHT THREE

p
: s ;
NINE EIGHT, NINE ZERO FIVE CST, DUE TO ARRIVE ATLANTA ELEVEN

SNTY AM NARCH TWENTY NINE DUE ‘TO

ARRIVE BALTINCRE SEVEN FORTY TWO AN. INSPECTOR: G. P. TINES,
MEMPHIS PD, ADVISED KING PLANNING TO STAY IN MEMPHIS AT
RIVERMONT HOTEL TONIGHT, FUTURE PLANS UNKNOWN AT PRESENT
TIME. P.

NINES AND TEN

SHLD BE TABEA OF MEMPHIS” AND LINE TGs“ PARAW ONES “WORD -FIVE*

—

SHED-BSPREMARY”

WORD-TANSE-SHLD-SE—* PRENARELY—-AND-A-PERLOD~SHLD..BE-BETWEEN
"DEPT. ~ MID” FOUR" OWEXXX-CN-LT RE" FOURS

THREE WORD

PASE-HIO-PARAT ONE LIW! LD -BE“"LIQUOR™.

END. : ; ye ee
i : fo i :
HFL fv ie : : tf :

: ae = z . ;
Fat wash pe 6 : :
> et :


In

UNITED STATES CQPERNMENT . 4 7 Assoe, Dit,
M . . _ 1-Mr. J. B. Adams oon saaAlb
emorandum 1 - Mr. W. R. Wamnall ‘Asst Din
1 - Mr. D. Ryan Py au
ro 3 Mr. W. R. Wannall pate: 7/18/75 File Cos
1-Mr. J. G. Deegan bakin
FROM : J, G, Deegan (,) : LlMel Hl AL Newnan inl ~
LobdMatory
‘o) Legal Coun,
SUBJECT: DR, MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. AEgFORMATION contaen Spee
oaTeLof an Bes Tein
7 Teleshore Ben
Director See’y

—NW65360_Docld:

‘OFMIONAL F0%M NO. 10 , 5010-108 4
MAY 1942 EDITION
Tosa ctu, tt0, no, 27

\

During a conference on 7/16/75 between the Assistant
Attorney General, J. Stanley Pottinger, and his staff and the
Director of the FBI and his staff, a question arose concerning
Martin Luther King's alleged moving from one hotel or motel to
pee or eae or motel in Memphis, Tennessee, prior to his murder
on .

Attached is a letterhead memorandum (LHM) setting forth
an inguiry including a review of all appropriate Bureau files
regarding a proposal made in memorandum G. C. Moore to Mr. W. C.
Sullivan dated 3/29/68 in connection with the counterintelligence
program wherein it was recommended that information be made
available to a cooperative news media source showing King to be
a hypocrite. This was to be based on the fact that when violence
broke out during a march led by King in Memphis, Tennessee, on
3/28/68, he disappeared. There was a first class Negro hotel
in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine, but King chose to hide out in
a white owned and operated Holiday Inn Motel (also known as the
Rivermont Motel). The LHM will reflect and document the fact
that although a notation appears on the memorandum that it was
"handled" there.is no information available to reflect that it
was ever actually given to a cooperative news source. Mr. Harold
P, Leinbaugh (retired), who placed the notation "handled" on the
document, absolutely has no recollection of this matter nor can
he state whether or not the information was disseminated.-~ asec)

‘ 88 ag - fol JO er -

The time elements as documented in Chis LHM would
preclude the proposal contained in the 3/29/6§ memorandum of
having any affect upon King's cnoice of a motel“in-which to reside.

RECOMMENDATION: JUL 29 1975 }
That the attached LHM ‘along with attachments -be., afl
disseminated to the Department. ay |
- \ J hs
= bez : rm) [rz
This document is pre a im respo: sh est and is not for* dissemi- w ba b 1 .
nation ovtsi’2 your mittee. , Tis ube ke Wed to official proceedings by
your Comm:''re and the conteys Mady losed to unauthorized person- he gh

nel without the express app:

col

ae “ROUTE act ;

ie et
§3

Page 79



SSC REQUEST 11-25-75
ITEM 7C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 18 univ assiee
ome G08 sr re dypee

0
NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 8



a) TJomtionat tama No. 10 “

a emattse2 etanion ‘7
Tega OBOE MRE NO ar
meee UNITED, STATES. GC URAMENT

Memorandum
Me. W. C. Sulli WZ

sor0-108

tro
FRom : G. C. Moore ( Ne
sugject: COUNTERINSLLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS
RACIAL INTELLIGENCE
. QWASHINGION SPRING PROJECT)

PURPOSE:

To recommend item be furnished cooperative national
news media source by Crime Records, designed to curtail
| success of Martin Luther King's fund raising for the Washington

Spring Project.

BACKGROUND:

Martin Luther King has now scheduled the Washington

Spring Project, his "poor people's march on Washington, D. C.,'S
for the latter part of April, 1968. King's organization, the g H
Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) has sent out a¥&
mailing to 70,000 potential financial contributors. King 8 ‘
asked these 70,000 to contribute to the Washington Spring 3 ¥
Project for the feeding and housing of the marchers. S2
a At the same time, churches in the Washington, D. 0. 88e8
area have said they will feed and house King's marchers. ges
- ni : : “8 aes
SUGGESTION: : ; neers
—e BEC-D Betyg ay: Bags
fesraee That the above facts" be given a cooperative news SSS
{s) urce by the Crime Records Division so that a story could be ess
a ie ERE ee 306 bom \ TP Bae
~~ Mr. DeLoach ‘ AL 50O Coo 7 sis
. 0 —_ . eal
\ 1 - Mr. W. C. Sullivan ee 8 CO ess Ee
; L -Mr. Bishop Ro 1968 Sy §
ted . B AP sss
1 ~ Mr. G. C. Moore px 106 ve sss
1 - Mr. D. M. Wells met BR
1 - Mr. T. J. Deakin 3

SB macees ON
TID:df/dsm (7) ¢,%

Wha es2eqrooct:sappp602 Pagest —wepr

Callahan
Conrad
elt,

josen

Sullivan

Trot =
Trotter

Tele, Room

Holmes
Gandy

pate: March 26, 1968

oe

sectneanmee a gmctareants eace nev joes nga aae en ee

ALE INFORMATION CONTAINED aoe

EE opal siz Y

ge er
pa

2 anoysyo. you

9 BY) PUD saypUNOD snot

‘oatzwUmUuoy woh vpIs4n0 UoYDE

Sreaagaironee matron derma

al Ut pawmdard $1 quawnoop sry,J,

ethssod

/

CONTINUED - OVER

\

Sita oor v



V¥f765360 sReeld:32989602 Pagaite verge ger

“ACTION:

Memorandum to Mr, Sullivan
RE: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

given nation-wide circulation that King does not need “a
contributions from the 70,000 people he, solicited. Since

the churches have offered support, no more money is needed
and any contributed would only be used by King for other
purposes, This item would need nation-wide circulation.
in order to reach all the potential contributors and
curtail their donations. A sample item is attached.

That the facts about King's solicitation of
funds unnecessarily be given a cooperative news source
by the Crime Records Division. we

ter

ead rom oe venom



avaae

Martin Luther King, Jr., President of the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), today finds himself
in the embarrassing position of having too much money, or at
least the probability of too much money. The SCLC sent out a
huge mailing to its contributors pleading for funds for. the
Washington Spring. Project, the "poor.people’s-march on™»
Washington." Thousands of conc1ibutors were urged to support
the march financially in order to feed and house the demon~
strators. But the churches in the Washington, D. C., area
have offered to house and feed the demonstrators,

Now the contributions are beginning to roll in from
the mailing and King doesn't need the money, An embarrassment
ef riches has befallen King, who will only use the money for -
other purposes. The churches had better come through with
all the housing and support the demonstrators need, because
there will b> littie money left for the "poor people" by the
time the march rolls around.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE ob puygssi

[20-00 GOO © me ~ § oa
ae Lia

:32989602 Page 83

ewe Ao wen


ssc REQUEST 11-25-75
ITER gc

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Hi INCLASSIFIED
BEES Saw

Rb

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 84 =. |


ert eet per all a)

7 “UNITED STA’ TES G “ERNMENT

‘ Memorandum
s
To: Mrg sullivan pate: 3/28/68
FROM Ge Cc, Moorehl-~
ra)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
SUBJECT: “SANITATICHN WORKERS STRIKE

see HEREIN 19, SSID AMP
MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE. He ls anna? Cé& Vane
|
~

RACIAL ‘MATTERS

go

A sanitation workers strike has been going on in
Memphis for some time, Martin Luther King, Jr., today led a-
march composed of 5,000 to 6,000 people through the streets
of Memphis, King was in an automobile preceding the marchers,
As the march developed, acts of violence and vandalism broke

out including the breaking of windows in stores and some aA
looting, i

Wich. ters

This clearly demonstrates that acts of so-called
nonviolence advocated by King cannot be controlled, The same

thing could happen in his planned massive ,Givil disobedience —
a Washington in April.

WARECORDED COPY FILED mM

REG 19. ar ;

ACTION: Deer EX-105 # Ge Gil Coz BS a5578

2, Attached is a blind memorandum pointing-tut—the===
above, which if you approve, should be made available by a
Crime Records eos to cooperative news media sources, (‘ 12

: ayn fet :

Enclosure = ;
TDR:£hd (6) LA oi oot 405

1 - Mr, Bee
1 - Mr, Sullivan
1 - Mr, Bishop “eet
ls Mr. G, C, Moore
1

A ce ‘= Mr, Deakin pany

This document is prepared , in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
\ 1 ih AS
nation 0% your oem bit hy AAts use is limited to official proceedings a
Re By Ce the ¢ ‘Ats use od I cecdting a af

“wet *withed mapy not be fesclosea to unauthorized, in

SE. org Ce athe FP.

a,

t h (%
AMG ROIS TS 3D19GB one ‘Page ree ed

ee ees



Martin Luther King, Jr., President of the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference, injected himself into the
sanitation workers' strike in Memphis, Tennessee, and the :
result of King's famous espoussl cf nonviolence was vandalism,
looting, and riot.

Previously, King involved himself in this strike,
ealled for a general strike, and called for a-mass march.
Today he led the mass march in an automobile at the head of
the line. Negroes began shouting "black power" and trouble
began. King, apparently unable or unwilling to control the
marchers, absented himself from the scene; window breaking and
looting broke out. ieeeeees :

Police officers were forced to use gas to break up |
the march and to control the crowd, It was necessary to
activate the National Guard. Martin Luther King claims his
much-heralded march on Washington, scheduled’
1968, will also be "nonviolent."' He says he#has persuaded
militant black nationalists to abandon violent extremism in
Washington, D. C., during the march. Memphis may only be the
prelude to civil strife in our Nation's Capitol. 7

: : ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN If. UNDLASSIFI
one LORS or SRALIC

LET ~ We -88

| sR0k ENCLOSURE !
~~ 4 1968 ; cope Hele jot
APR /& 186 7 parnnteyaner |

al i ih bedantdestanaessesestestiocsl | -

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 86



- ~@

Mriled Slates Seiate
: StLECT coMMITTCE TO :

: STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPLRATIONS WITH
i RESPECT TO INTCLUGENCE ACTIVITICS

| (ronauner 0 8, me 31, ser concness?
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

CUNTIC @, AMOTHENS, MINOMITY COUNSEL.

nar

November 25, 1975 sie

Michael E. Shaheen, Esq.

Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination :
Office of the Deputy Attorney General ate
U. S. Department of Justice

* Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

I would appreciate vour making available to the
Committee the following items in connection with our
investigation of-the King matter: :

pertain to contfacts, conversations or meetings between

one Val Coleman and Special Agent Harold Linebaugh or
y any other FSI Headcuarters officials concerning Martin

Luther King, dr., during November or December of 1964.

\ 1. All_memoranda and any other materials which
Ww

2. All memoranda and any other materials which I
pertain to contacts, conversations or meetings between 4
any FBI Headquarters officials and any r esentatives of 4
the news media concerning Martin Luther King,.dr., during
November or December of 1964. 7

= 3. All memoranda and any other materials which t
pertain to a meeting between Ralph Abernathy and either Ny
FBI Director Hoover or Cartha DeLoach during December
1964 or January 1965 (other than the December 1, 1964
meeting which was attended by Dr. King and the January 11,
1965 meeting which was attended by Andrew Young). -

, 4+ All memoranda and any other materials which *
pertain to the following statement which appears in the
second paragraph of the September 11, 1964 memorandum

M from Mr. P. J. Baumgardner to Mr. W. C. Sullivan, captioned
Martin Luther, King, Jr., Security Matter - Communist":

ec
oh.

ALL vernon, nen
aa SEORMATION CONTAINED



Michael E. Shaheen : > : @ a
sage 2. 4 ; November 25; 1975

On that occasion Assistant Director
DeLoach's office was able to take
appropriate action to forestall the
publication of the article.

5. The 7/16/64 memorandum from Mr. Baumgardner to
Mr. Sullivan which is noted in handwriting at the bottom
of the second page of the Suly 15, 1964 morandum from
‘Mc. Baumgardner to Mr. Sullivan, captioned “Communist :
Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial
Matters, Internal Security - Communist.”

: 6. With respect to the March 29, 1968 memorandum,
with enclosure, from G. C. Moore to Hr. W. C. Sullivan,
captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist
> Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence (Martin Luther King)”

please provide:

a. Access to original of this memorandum
and its enclosure;

b. Access to all extant "tickler” and/any
other copies of this memorandum and its attachment’
in their original form; ies

e. All memoranda and ariy other materials
which pertain to, bear upon, or indicate any
actions taken pursuant to or in connection with
the recommendation contained in this memorand
(Phis—should include anv andall_—information—

radduced,..collected ,-ar red in connection .

-with Nri-James~Adams*- y--on ~this..subject--
-befoxe—the-Senate -SetectCommiztee—on—November—137-

a5)

a. All memoranda and any other materials
received from FBI field offices or written at
FBI Headquarters prior to and pertaining to the
recommendation contained in the March 29, 1968
memorandum. :

a 7. With respect to the memorandum with enclosure,
from W. C. Moore to Nr. W. C. Sullivan, dated March 26,
1968, captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Black :
Nationalist - Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence (Washington
Spring Project) please provide the access and/or materials
xrequésted in a, b, c, and d of Item 6 above.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 88 nine iw
W $9500 Docid:s

OT NTN

eeereeenrernerneriemeeminn

oe ener 8 He

ae



vain peCEEs Shariéen
Ege 3
tag

“+. Novembex 25975

: 8. With respect to a memorandum with enclosure,
from G. C. Moore to Mr. Sullivan, dated 3/28/68, captioned
*sanitation Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee, Racial
Hatters," please provide the access and/or materials
requested in a, b, c, and d of Item 6 above.

9. Responses to Items 6, 7, an@ 8 should include
copies of all newspaper clippings or magazine articles
contained in FBI files which contain information set forth
in the memoranda and/or enclosures identified in Items
6, 7, and.8 above. = pesseetuaiaetacd cine

Ie i ae Sincerely,

: : : - a

: . : iiseiiiatt f/dohn T. ELIifE
. .'* Director

. Domestic Intelligence Task Force

NW 65360, Docid:32989602 Page 89 Eee



‘OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

‘December 1, 1975

ja 0: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director
Le Tegal Counsel Division .

\ Federal Bureau of Investigation
if
K Meron 3

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for Intelligence
Coordination

SUBJECT: Senate Select Committee Reauest

Attached is a letter from the. Senate Select
. Committee dated November 25, 1975, requesting various
anformation regarding the King matter. Please prepare -
. an appropriate response to this request.

ie a)

- + cc: Paul Daly

gy OL NOI | glox

7 MAR 5 1976 4.

J NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 90_



4-812 (Rev. 12-11-73) 9 a
ii

Date of Mail _ 11/28/75

| Has been removed and placed in the Special File Room of Records Section.

t

See File 66-2554-7530 for authority.

1) CONTAINED

-
sees

Subject JUNEMAIL  SENSTUBY
Removed By ‘ZO JAN 1 1976
File Number 62-116395-1210 |

Permanent Serial Charge Out

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 91 {



U. 5.

improprieties on the part of an SSC Staff Member.

.

\

) Director, {FBI

The Attorney General

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

las
‘

1 - Mr.
1 - Me.

@
SEN, SELECT COMMITTEE
ON aia eta ACTIVITIES (SSC)

We
We
Ss.

B, Adams
A. Mintz
W. Moore

December %, 1975.

R. Wannall
0. Gregar
F. Phillips

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN Yb UMCLASSIRI
onda sy Seay?

B

Ys

Enelosed is the original of a memorandun, with attach-

ment, concerning an interview of former FBI Assistant Director
Robert Wick by SS€ Staff Members. Also enclosed is a copy of
the memorandum, with attachment, for forwayding to Mr. James A.

Vilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President.

Your specific attention is invited to certain infor-
mation relating to the interview of Wick suggestive of

as known to this Bureau, are as follews.

view by telephone on November 5,

Wiek first contacted this Bureau concerning the inter-
1975, to advise that he

The facts,

been called on October 31, 1975, by an individual tamtieyiny

himself as Mike Epstein representing the Ss.

Epstein requested -

Wick to come to Washington, D. G., for a two to three hou

interview concerning a matter relating to his “employment,”
Epstein did not further describe the subject matter of the
interview and an appointment was arranged for November 7, 1975,
Wick said that he was uncertain as to the probable subject

matter of the interview because other matters coming within his
responsibilities as Vice President of Pan American World Airways ,

which were unrelated to the FBI, have been of recent interest

to the Ssc.
matter,

Wick asked for advice of the FBI concerning this
Thereupon, the Legal Counsel Division of this Bureau

- contacted Epstein and determined that the subject matter of
the interview of Wick would be Martin Luther King, Jr.
return call was made to Wick on November 5, 1975, to advise him

Avec. 01. that this Bureau had learned that the subject matter of the

Dep ADAM interview would be Martin Luther King, Jr.

1-
* SEPimjg itys

Dep. AD Inv.

dont.
Inspection
Intell.

(11)

Legal Coun. —_
Telephone Rm. —
Director Sec'y AIL,

AR stbiG2. 3

\

oO ee

02 Page 92

er:

(Personnel file former Assistant D

Robert Wick

ECHL

(os. oe
v Aoes je

ba

)
we Lae Cal \
MW, _ “3

mC oveLervreust— of 6, fF, @,,

A

ba rite 551K
115 1976 ae
rector of

GPO : 1975 © - 569-0207
N



The Attorney General

On November 6, 1975, Wick again telephoned this Bureau
and advised that he had been rather annoyed at Epstein's
initial approach to him; particularly, because Wick had tried
on more than one occasion during the telephone conversation
with Epstein to pry from Epstein the subject matter of the
interview but Epstein persisted in not advising hin,

This Bureau's representative who had determined from
Epstein on November 5, 1975, the subject matter of the inter-
view has advised that when he made the inquiry of Epstein, he
asked Epstein why he had not told Wick the subject matter.
Epstein's reply was that Wick had not asked him, a statement
directly contradictory to Wick's advice to this Bureau.

The second suggested impropriety is that Epstein
contacted Wick prior to advising this Bureau of his intention
to interview Wick, an action which is contrary to procedures
which have been agreed upon between the SSC and this Bureau.

Enclosures (4)

62~116395

1 ~ The Deputy Attorney General
Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

NW 65360 Doctd:32989602 Page 93



,3  @ @

1l-Mr. J. B. Adams
1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz
1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

December 9, 1975

1 = Mr. W. R. Wannall
1 - Mr. W.0. Cregar
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 1 - Mr. S.F. Phillips
TO. STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WETH RESPEGT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: INTERVIEW OF FORMER FBI
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (AD) ROBERT WICK
BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS

62~116395

This memorandum concerns an interview of former FBI
AD Robert Wick by SSG Staf£ Members.

On November 5, 1975, Wick advised this Bureau that
on October 31, 1975, he had been contacted by an individual
identifying himself as Mike Epstein of the SSC who requested
Wick to come to Washington for a two to three hour interview
concerning a matter relating to his employment. FS bane aid
not further describe the subject matter although (ick attempted
to obtain such information from Epstein,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Upon receipt of the above information fron Wick,
this Bureau determined from Epstein that the subject matter
was to be Martin Luther King, Jr., and that fact was relayed
to Wick on November 5, 1975, wick was also told that he was
being released from his secrecy or arciee with the FRI fox the
purpose of the interview, confined te the indicated subject.
Matter. Wick was also advised by this Bureau that he was not
| required to answer questions falling within four privileged

i areas: matters pertaining to pending investigations; inkormation
i ah? from third agencies, including fore: intelligence agencies;
| i information concerning sensitive methods and techniques; and
! information which might divulge the identities of PBI sources,

Assoc. Dir, —__

| Mss Bio Attached hereto is a copy of a MEMORANDUM! FOR THE PELE
west. dated November 12, 1975, which tlick voluntazily furnished this

mai Bureau and which represents his report pertaining to the imtervicu,

xt. Alara — ak
olan eid pr )
7 1 = 67-

(Personnel file former Assistant Director / 7

Robert Wick)

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG th

SFPimjgmic, (10) 9 SHB NOTE PAGE TWO (7)
(4a un :

Training
Legel Coun.

. f
cial BP?O5~ qh
oe pe — MAIL ROOMCT)] = TELETYPE UNIT) ba Lf a ce 7% Jae 7

GPO : 1975 0 - 569-820
1d:32989602 Page 94_



U. S. Senate Select Comittee
to Study Governaental Operations
With Respect to Intelligence Activities ($80)

Ret Interview of Former FBL Assistant Director (AD)
Robert Wick by SSC Staff Members

NOTE:

Information relating to contacts between \ick and this
Bureau are reported in memoranda 11/5/75 from Legal Counsel to
lx. J. B. Adams "Senate Select Comittee on Intelligence
Activitles}’ and 11/7/75 from i. 0. Cregat to WW. KR. Wannall
"Senstudy 75." Wick's statement, MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE, was
mailed to Supervisor S. F. Phillips of the Senstudy 75 Project.
The matter of improprieties was addressed specifically in the
above 11/7/75 Ceazar memorandum ond it is believed that the
Department should be made aware of this matter.

| NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 95



JFK Law 10(a}1

é

Let «ANH YOAL

bot 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 96



JEK Law 10(a}1

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 97



JFK Law 10(a)1



| JPK Law 10(a)1

bw 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 99



JEK Law 10(a)L

7 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 100
ry eduurbeseeeerersiesszi i


JFK Law 10(a)1

| NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 101


| NW 65360 Doc!

:32989602 Page 102



ie, pes = v * i rl anes we =

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Commumtt
ATIN: Central Index :*

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1, HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

X]_pocument anverine | 3¢_Lintenview Testimony | _[oTHer 12/9/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)
The Attorney General with a copy for forwarding to
the Whiie House

4, IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum reporting results of an interview by SSC Staff
Menbers of former Assistant Director Robert Wick

. IN RESPONSE TO (List date and item number if in response to formal request, other- + CLASSIFICATION OF

wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter|
U, C, S, TS or

Codeword)
RA
U

+ KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Information handling
Intelligence collection |

SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

interviewed regarding his kndwhedge of the FBI's investigation
of Martin Luther King, Jr.

62-116395
FMR: fmk
(4) ORIGINAL VIA LZAISON LO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

ALL Nt ae

HEREN pu joss
patel

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

3791 (6-75)

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 103


Ale (104

INSTRUCTIONS

“ e@ Type or print clearly in ink.
° . Tadicaté classification of the abstract top and bottom.
e Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

e If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 104


y Bsc tity. s.2089) @ @

\

I
l
|
|
1
|
FBI |
1
f/ Date: 12/9/75
!
Tyansmit the following in [ype in plaintext of codel
7 |
Vid AIRTEL ATR MATL {| Spee am
(Priority) | nezal Cow
woe -- +--+ +--+ j--------~-------------------- 1 — p8etephone-
i Director Seq’
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
J ATIN: EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
FROM: _ADIC’ LOS ANGELES (66-6243) DIVISION 4
por : & ASSISTANT TO THE \y
RE: SENSTUDY;” TESTIMONY OF DIRECTOR JAMES B. ADAMS
ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR naga SaUEESEETTEEEsaneea
JAMES B. ADAMS, AND ASSISTANT Nee, .
DIRECTOR W. RAYMOND WANNALL ALL INEoRMAgION ConANED

12/2/75 HEREIN 15 8 LASSI :
DATE. lols} BY SPaALM IG?
Iy

Re Los Angeles phone call to Assistant to the

Director JAMES B. ADAMS, 12/9/75. pare
On 12/3/75, the attached article appeared in the

Los Angeles Times under the byline of reporter JACK NELSON. 4

As indicated, the headline and lead paragraph which suppos¢@dl.

is based on ADAMS' testimony, clearly reflects that the FB ead

did nothing to prevent Klan, violence-al though we knew of

the contemplated violence. After discussing this matter/with
Mr. ADAMS and reviewing the actual testimony received in

the Los Angeles Division on 12/8/75, SAC ELMER F. LINBERG
and I met with Editor BILL THOMAS and National Editor ED
GUTHMAN at the Los Angeles Times.

I advised these gentlemen that I was aghast when I
read the headlines and the lead paragraph of this article
and could not believe that JIM ADAMS did not refute inforniant
ROWE's testimony that we took no action relative to con-
templated violence since I knew that this was contrary to
the rules, regulations, policy, and philosophy of the FBI
in 1960. I then called Mr. ADAMS in Washington, D. C., and
he likewise, was jopset over the headline and lead paragraph,

t

S re

UD ENCLOSURE 179, . ;

Sa ee ovr pina eed com O87 (DOT
REG :mmb KR ET a]

| 4) 47 DEC 121975 f

( \ NS

=n | en D .
-

~. att 740 7 Dory. saenae p e

Apptoted: 4 ere Sent ae Mr- Per se : :
Special Agent U.S. Govern Printing Office: 1972 — 485-574
NW 65360 Docld:32989608 Page 105 cf 7



LA 66-6243

because, according to ADAMS, he completely refuted these
statements in that we did disseminate the contemplated
plans of violence to the Birmingham Police Department and
to the Department of Justice in the form of a letterhead
memorandum.

I continued that I waited until I received the
actual transcript of testimony and told the gentlemen that
upon my review of the testimony of Mr. ADAMS and Mr. WANNALL,
I could not reconcile the headline and lead paragraph with
such testimony. I then proceeded to read several excerpts
from the testimony.

I advised Mr. THOMAS and Mr. GUTHMAN that my
immediate reaction was to prepare a "Letter to the Editor"
but felt after a re-analysis of the situation that this is
not a judgment question on the part of the newspaper, but
one of a slanted, inaccurate story either by design or
through misunderstanding. I therefore felt that the Los
Angeles Times, if it so desired, should be in a position to
correct the situation itself based on the facts.

Mr. THOMAS expressed appreciation for my approach
and stated that at the time he read the article, already
printed, a question came to his mind as to why the FBI did
not advise someone or take some action relative to contemplated
violence. He, however, took no further action. He said

in view of what I had read from excerpts of Mr. ADAMS' testimony

and the now available complete transcript of the testimony,
he intends to pursue this matter further and would prefer
not to have a "letter to the Editor", but rather correct

any inaccuracies on the part of the Los Angeles Times through
their own pursuit of further inquiring concerning this story.

Mr. GUTHMAN concurred with Mr. THOMAS and they
indicated that it appears the obvious question is based on
Mr. ADAMS' testimony of who in the Department of Justice
received this information relative to contemplated violence
and what did such a responsible Department of Justice official
do with the information. He agreed that based on the
information furnished to them, the FBI has been done an
injustice but that they, the Los Angeles Times, desired to
pursue this matter further.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 106



NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 107 |

LA 66-6243

It should be noted the article of JACK NELSON is
based on one specific situation, namely the testimony of
former informant GARY ROWE that he had furnished advance
information to the FBI to the effect that members of the
Ku Klux Kian would be given the opportunity to beat members
of the Freedom Riders without interference by law enforcement
authorities for approximately 15 minutes after which the
local law enforcement authorities would take action, and
that the FBI was advised of this well in advance of such
beatings and furthermore, the FBI took no action to prevent
this violence.



Took No Action to Prevent
Klan Violence, FBI Admits

BY JACK NELSON
‘Times Washington Bureau Chief

WASHINGTON—An FEI official
conceded Tuesday that the bureau
had failed to use an undercover
fei mbar to head off Ku

lux Klan violence in Alal
the 1960s. eee

But, the official, James B. Adams,
assistant to the director, told the Sen-

» ate Intelligence Committee that the
FBI was "just as frustrated as anyone
else” at "rank lawlessness" that exist-
ed in Alabama at that time. Also, he
said, the FBI is an investigative
agency and has no enforcement pow-

__Adams' defense of the FBI came
immediately after Gary Thomas
Rowe Jr., wearing a hood to conceal
| his features, testified that on many
| Occasions he had warned the bureau
' of the klan's plans for violence, but
; that the violence occurred without
| official interference,
: Rowe served six years as an FBI
‘undercover agent before surfacing in
1965 as the star witness against three

tthe .

-

& 2

WITNESS—Gary Thomas Rowe

Jr. wears hood while testifying.
AP Wirephoto

Hlansmen accused.of killing a white
civil rights worker in Lowndes Coun-
ty, Ala, Since then he has been living

Please Turn to Page 6, Col, £

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN
DATELO)

NCLASSIFI
BY.

Los Angeles Times

12/3/75

Lo
ENCLOSURE

—NW65360-Docld:32989602 Page 108

as 7 E q
Continued from First Page f
! in Southern California under an assumed name. j

Rowe was one of two former undercover operatives;
who testified before the committee Tuesday. The other,'
Mary Jo Cook of Buffalo, N.Y., told of supplying the FBI|
with information about 1,000 persons while serving as an |
informant against the Vietnam Veterans Against the Wari
during 1973-74,

Testimony by both witnesses prompted committee
members to criticize FBI tactics and to suggest that legal
restraints be put on future FBI activities.

Sen. Philip A. Hart (D-Mich.), commenting on testimony
by Rowe that he engaged in klan violence with the j
knowledge and approval of the FBI, observed that the;
bureau's infiltration of the Klan not only failed to prevent
violence, "but indeed may have contributed to it."

Sen. Walter F. Mondale (D-Mont.) told Adams that the '
FBIhad bungled its job in investigating political activities |
' and added: |
''_ “It has interfered with civil liberties and finally in the
last month or two through its public disclosures has
heaped shame upon itself and really led toward the un-
‘ dermining of crucial public confidence essential to law en-
forcernent agencies in the country."
Mondale criticized the FBI for trying to “protect people
from subversive and dangerous ideas," and he told Adams:
“Time and time again, we're going to protect the blacks
from Martin Luther King because he's dangerous. We're
«. going to protect veterans from whatever it is, we're going
« to protect the (National) Council of Churches from veter-
ans and s00n... 4
"Don't you agree with me that we've got to control this,
restrain it, define it, so that precisely what's expected of
the FBI is known by you and by the public and you can
justify your actions when we ask you?"
Adams disagreed that the FBI had bungled in the politi-
cal intelligence field but agreed that restraining legisla- ,

Sonam onder

Be aT

Zo

oy


y

#utd JEsUEuTEEYecUTEEGTEEUEsEszET Tabs sce" :007¢ 500007 :00bebnsiSTiGTsaET

UNITED STATES -, ee Astor, Dir, a
relg
an

Dep.
Dep.

Memorandum a

TO =: MR, CALLAHAN DATE: 12-38-75 ee J
nag
Ident? is
FRoM : T. J, JENKINS pr. Ue ere.
: ple . Laboratory
{ 7 . iy ee
supject: GARY T, ROWE # fie At Pei
TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATE. {0 Legal Coun

} =
Pa of the Birmingham, Alabama,. News, called and he advised that

Telephone Rm. 2.
Dir softy

OSELECT COMMITTEE;
eareininaneaantta

ee

: DP vcigess Gevece, Obit 7
On 12-3-75 aw fndieilieh-whoiaentitied himself as.Garland }{+

“he understood I was the Special Agent in Charge of the Birmingham Office

at the time the bus was burned with the Freedom Riders in Birmingham,

Alabama, in 1961. He stated that he would like to know if Rowe had fur-

nished us information that the Birmingham Police were going to wait 15

or 30 minutes to go to the bus station in order to give the Klan an oppor-

tunity to work over the Freedom Riders. I informed Reeves that I recalled’

no such information being furnished to us at that time. I told him that ally

information we received concerning possible violence was furnished to the

Birmingham Police Department. He wanted to know, if there had been such

an agreement what action would I take. I told him that if I determined that

the police department would not take any action for 15 or 30 minutes I would

advise the Mayor fad tity and the Police Commissioner and if they felt the

same as the police department, Ss ould then advise ,the Governor of the § 5,
ee PEO ZEEE i

He wanted to know what woh the FBI's peau nh Oe

if the police department refused to take any action. I told him that we did

not have jurisdiction in matters of this nature, that they were purely local

and it was the responsibility of the local authorities to handle such matters.

He desired to know if I would call out the Federal Marshals. I informed him

that the FBI did not have any authority to call upon the Federal Marshals in

a situation of this nature but if such a situation arose, I would have imme-

diately notified our headquarters in Washington, who would Have notificd-the

Department of Justice, who would have such authority. 7 DEC 161975 |

mA

he

us! 7 2 T'tol@ him that while I was in Birmingham as Special Agent in
Charge we kept the Bureau headquarters in Washington completely informed
of all'developments and they in turn, kept the Department of Justice informed.

ACTION: / Submitted for information.
TII:pmady(5)

: on edyt
Dante Be
au. hvoranon Carfamen, g

HEREIN JS iWULASSIF

Shp Bua (


NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 110

FD-96 jarew. $22.64) :

FBI : ws
Date: 12/4/75

Transmit the following in f)

(Type in plaintext or code) £
Vie ATRTEL wedi

(Priority) i
PaSAgEGET En sn/=gnaHassHSASAAHAPRUAEAERASAERESNENSHRAOGAGSHERORAESESESESEGHEEGEREOSES v6 / |/4/S.' JSBunnus NERUERORRESERESE! T-
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62~116395)

X SENSTUDY 75 °

ATIN: INTD, W.O. CREGAR

FROM: SAC, SAN DIEGO (66-1714)

Re San Diego telephone call to Bureau, 12/4/75.

FILED IN

Enclosed for the Bureau are eight copies of a letterr
head memorandum reflecting information received in the San, Diggo

Office concerning GARY THOMAS ROWE, Jr. pes
3
‘

Deputy SCOTT BOIES of the San Diego County She’ s
Office was contacted and advised that if he felt he recognized) |
ROWE that he should not discuss the matter openly with anyone’?
in that ROWE was obviously attempting to protect his identity
Deputy BOIES was not advised that ROWE was identical with THOMAS

NEIL MOORE.
a
pik ene aa nef
v7) ) Bureau ~

ize ha
¢ = 8: :
1 - San Diego A Ly, WW :
DCS:pgh Re. f-

. ba - Ub, EF 100k

/

; me
jo Tee eke ort Geeeenl : ab j
; : z ar on Aset1975 |
core CenFastry MOLT) ;
: se ameneetm scone
no nvTRNNED
anAtion ©
Au ANFOR! sSSIon
WEREN PSS 0 BY y,
DAT p ie
A
Approved: ALM | be Sent. M Per
Spedial Agent in Charge +28 corm agai orrce ne os 09



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION r

In Reply, Please Refer to San Diego, California

File No,

December 4, 1975

U, S, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: GARY THOMAS ROWE, JR,

At 11:30 p.m, on December 2, 1975, Deputy Sheriff
Scott Boies of the San Diego County Sheriff's Office, Lemon Grove,
California Sub-Station, telephonically contacted the San Diego
FBI Office and advised as follows;

Deputy Boies stated that he recognized the voice of the
man identified as Gary Thomas Rowe, Jr., who is testifying before
the Senate Subcommittee on the Ku Klux Klan, He stated he heard
Mr. Rowe talk on a news broadcast and recognized him as being an
individual he knows as Thomas Neil Moore, Deputy Boies furnished
Moore's date of birth as August 15, 1933, and an address of
580 "L" Street, Chula Vista, California, where Moore resided in
1971. Deputy Boies stated that Moore worked for Western Bureau of
Investigation, headquartered in Los Angeles and worked as a
security guard for the White Front Department Store, Chula Vista,
California.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN, UNCLASSIFIE
Help aefbo ay SSP2ALNKP

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of
the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your
agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency,

fe Le

prague

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 111



: 2+ Mr. J, A. Mintz
(i - J. B. Hotis)
1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall +

The Attorney General December 12, 1975

0-100 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar
\) Directo: His i a len, otk Mr. J. G. Deegan
: _ ridin 1 - Mr. S. Klein

if U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ' of
on ‘LIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 8
ne
oan TR
Reference is made to my November 26, 1975, letter “> sty
to you enclosing among other material, a memorandum concerning | * 3
former FBI informant Gary Thomas Rowe, Jr. WX. 3
iN a
Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the a 8
Committee is a copy of a memorandum dated December 4, 1975, inns g
regarding Gary Thomas Rowe, Jr., received by FBI Headquarters 3 ~ 2
from our San Diego field office. a 3
on Rowe, is a former informant who testified before the = 3
SSC on December 2, 1975, regarding his role in supplying 6 §
information to the FBI regarding Ku Klux Klan activities in a g
in Alabama. He has been utilizing the cover name, Thomas Weil Moorg. y
fe]
Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the g 4
yy December 4, 1975, memorandum. a ®
“3
' Enclosures - 2 : $
Ul “
*  62-116395 if Sy
reo Ae Deputy Attorney General ne
Attention: Michael E, Shaheen, Jr. ry »)
Aagee Die — Special Counsel for As ye
oP. AD Inve 5 Col «. }
re —4 497.6995 Intelligence Coordination 7 rms 7
Admin. ———— ‘
emp, Syst. — i A,
ecu sdave SK tleLm Ks - Joe a
Files 8 Com —~ (41) yer SEE NOTE PAGE 2
_ ALL INFORMATION NTAIED ,
eee HEREIN ¥S UNCLA yd ale
pe ue. ebfbefenseseonenle 8 TY
Plon. & E: ‘S \
Spoc. Inv. 7, &
Lee esbgeannaareet 512 nN
roereemas (at ia 7 sd
itegtorSec' om. (OOM TELETYPE UNIT GPO 1 1975 © - 669-020
ni AERA 02 Page 112 7



The Attorney General,

NOTE:

Above being furnished to the Attorney General and the
SSC in order to apprise them of information reflecting that |
Rowe, who testified with a mask over his face, was identified
by a San Diego Deputy Sheriff after hearing Rowe's voice on a
news broadcast. Arrangements have been made for a representative
of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the attached memorandum.

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 113



TO

FROM

[bosgscr:

building to "FBI Building." H.R. 10916, introduced by Congress: 7
Rangel of New York, would change the name to "Federal Bureau of Ay
Investigation Building. ' All three of the bills were referred to the N |
Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House, the NN
chairman of which is Congressman Jones of Alabama. :
ian)
a RECOMMENDATION: \
iA
: Of For information of the Director in connection with his wen tle
Y for testimony. 7 Zz
xh . an 7 oo Jace =
ews =
ee “Ene. a
oe 1 - Mr. Hotis 1 la 8 zt
1- Mr. Walsh « z
1 - Mr. Wannall DEC 16 1675 ¢
1- Mr. Moore en ems iL:
1- Mr. Mintz i
; wet F
= gs BOD | 4 i \egict ;
SAM:mid ee yey et t
ni , 18 8S Ara
amar eC t

. ‘

‘OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
SA FPA {41 CFR) 101=11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT sr 1 aE
a 1D
Memorandum “i
Mr. Jf B. Adams pare: 12/4/75 “Fine
Ident. —___
Legal comseffft Ne
9 a
SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE :

Training

TESTIMONY BY THE DIRECTOR
DECEMBER 9, 1975

LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL TO CHANGE
THE NAME OF THE J. EDGAR HOOVER
FBI BULLDING

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

In connection with the Director's appearance on December 9,
1975, to testify before captioned committee, it is possible that he may be
asked concerning recent proposals in the Congress to change the name
of the building. Three bills have been introduced in the House of
Representatives on December 1, 1975, for that purpose. H.R. 10905,
introduced by Congressman Gude of Maryland and H.R. 10918, nea |
by Congresswoman Schroeder of Colorado, would change the name o}

BQ (eBo602 Bay Lif, Savings Bonds Regularly | on the he Payroll Savings Plan



an | ao

“ist ATR, 10905

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

piss Deceareer 1, 1975

Mr. Gunn introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee
on Public Works and Transportation

A BILL

To amend the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Bicentennial
Civic Center Act.

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-

bo

lives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

That section 8 of the Dwight D. Bisenhower Memorial Bi-

centennial Civic Center Act (86 Stat. 1022) is amended

by striking out “J. Hdgar Hoover ¥.B.I. Building’ wherever

it appears in such section and inserting in lieu thereof “F.B.I.

Building”.
I

a0 8% FW

SATION CONTAIVED
au nFoRUATION CO

HEREIN 15 UVC!
DONTE

| NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 115



NW 65360 Doctd:32989602 Page 116

“oor HR. 10905

A BILL

‘To amend the Dwight D. Hisenhower Memorial
Bicentennial Civic Center Act.

By Mr. Gupz

Decemper 1, 1975

Referred to the Committea on Public Works and

Transportation

IK
NIRS

a
ka

fa0%:

ere
>

GvTHOD Horas
apes, oe
va



94ur CONGRESS
a" HR, 10918
e © d

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

a} Decemnerr 1, 1975

Mrs, Scanompun introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Public Works and Transportation

--—_—__—_____ AIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DH eo prea MMeE”
A BILL

To designate the name of the new Federal building in the District
of Columbia which is erected to house the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That section 8 of the Public Law 92-520 is amended to
read as follows:

“Sno. 8. The Federal building in the block bounded
by Ninth Street Northwest, Tenth Street Northeast, E Street

a oa FF WO DH

a

Northwest, and Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest, in the Dis-
8 trict of Columbia, shall hereafter be known as the ‘F.B.I.
9 Building’, Any reference in a law, map, regulation, docu-

10 ment, record, or other paper of the United States to such

— NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 117



1 Federal building shall be held to be a reference to the

2 E.BI. Building’ ”.

NW 65360 Dochd:32989602

Page 118

“moor FL, R, 10918
A BILL

To designate the name of the new Federal build-
ing in the District of Columbia which is
erected to house the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

By Mrs. Scuroeper

Decemper 1, 1975

Referred to the Committee on Public Works and
‘Transportation



“sesame ss iy R. 10916

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

tee Decemper 1, 1975

Mr. Raneen introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Public Works and Transportation

To change the name of the J. Edgar Iloover F.B.I. Building.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

That section 8 of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Bi

‘by striking out “J. Edgar Hoover F.B.1. Building” both

1
2
3
_4& centennial Civic Center Act (86 Stat. 1022) is, amended
5
6 times it appears and inserting in lien: thercof “Federal
7

Bureau of Investigation Building”.
I

ut An BWSR SFE use?

oH 10

_NW65360_Doctd:42989602 Page 119 _



be
|_uww.65360_Docid:32989602 Page 120

d4en CONGRESS ‘
sy Session. bo ie ? G 9 i S

Lo change the naine of the J. Edgar Toover:
EBL Building, .

a St Se

By Mr. Ranore

. Decesmrr 1,975
Referred to the ‘Committee on Public Works and
Transportation . .

6?

LASSIFIED,
BY.

8S

zt

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN JS. U
DATE {0} 3


l~iir. Cochran

1- ie. Siack ’

l+ Mz. MeWrisht :
Mir. Jenkins i 1/28/75

3d. Cochyan, dr.

REQUEST BY SEWATE JUDICIARY SUBCOM ATTELD
OU ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
] ! FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUES.
4 t FOR ISTERROCATION i. ‘ Jt
Seen Ay |

Re memorandum from Local Counsel to lies J. B. Adams daicd 11/21/75, a
advising that representatives of captioncd Ecnate Subcommitice decive to review we
any Eurcou documents rclatine to the Burcau's interest in or use of drags during

interrosation, NG
It was pointed out in rofercaced memo that captioncd Gubeommitice ciafi X

members James F, Michie and Thomas M. Susman had obiaincd information 1
from the Devartmcat of Defcace (DOD) and the Central Intclligcace Agency (CIA)
concerning 2 prosrara coordinated betecn DOD, CIA, and FEI to dovclopa truth [YX |

serum. The program apparcatly began in carly 1960 and D. J. Parsons of the \
FBI Laboratory bad Imowledge of thic activity. “

The information that Liichic and Cusman have obtained apparcntly relates Bi
to a Navy deug experimentation project from 1947 to 1954. Navy files indicated
that the FBI was aware of this prosram ond Mr. C. D, DeLoach and D. J. Parsons q
wore mentioned. 4

A vevicw of Bureau files dieclosed only one reforence (62~2099-75) to the a
Novy deug project. This wos a memorandum, 8/4/60, recording that Mr. Alborti, 8
OMI, had informed Linicon that the Navy had becn developing a new drug which

62-2699 :

Enclocura - ie INFORMATION CONTAINED:
EREIN I LASSIFIER,

@ e2-16395 * . i a 4

L~ iar, Adama or
4 ~- tir, Mintz (Atta: Mr. Rotis)

(Atin: Mr. Miller) CONTINUED ~ OVER
3 - My. Wannall (Attn: Nir. W. O. Crogar) [esaaUsusuae Suesbet Staraargat
(Atin: Mr. T, D, J. Brooks) HEcheata canner nacea eRe
che (Atin: Ma. V. H. Weimar) uaeitiabanekaencad
CGidbms 46 FEB 5 1976

q@)
EEE eae eee — Se
84 FEB9 SS ee

. NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 121



- o ®

Memorandum J. Cochran, Jr. to Mr. Jenkins

RE: REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCOMMITTEE
ON ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUGS
FOR INTERROGATION

might be used to prcat advantage on copionage suspects. Navy offercd to
inform us ahout this. A notation by Mir. DeLoach indicated that Mr. Parsons

would mect with Navy on 8/11/50.

Memorandum dated 11/6/75 from W. O. Crogar to Mir. W. R. Wannall
is attached which cets forth details of our review of Navy files on this project,
including a Burcau press release which was to have bcen made in the event
that the Navy mentioned the FBI in their press release on this matier.

A veview of Bureau files for information relatins to drugs decimed to
modify behavior indicates an interest dating back to 1922. However, this
intoresi has not extended to the point where the Eurcau has conducted research
on behavior modifying drugs nor has it funded such rescarch. We have maininined
linicon with other agencies, primarily the U. S. Army, and industrial organiza-
tions in order to be aware of developracnts in this areca.

On 7/80/74, Laboratory and Training Division representatives met
with representatives of the Biomedical and Chemical Laboratories of
Edgevood Arsenal, Maryland, to discuss the potential use of incapacitating
chomical agents in hostage situations. Although we have developed an aware-
ness of various agents which may be used in these situations, wo have not
conducted any rescarch with these agents. Memoranda on this matter are
located in Bufile 80-807.

A single instance occurred whore “truth scram" was administered in
a Burcau case, Truth serum was administered to Thurman Seruges Wilkins
at his own request while being interviewed in the Los Angeles Office,
April 26, 1947. Wilkins was allegedly involved with one Imnacy Saraucl
Witezals, the subject of a Sovict espionage cace (100-343077). The acival
drug uscd was sodium amytal and the actual adminictration was done by 2
physician. Prior Burcau authority was not obtained by the Los Angeles
Office in connection with this incident. SAC Hood submitted a Icttor of
explanation to the Bureau on July 2, 1947. This incident resulted in the
following information being sect forth in SAC Letter 84-47 dated July 3, 1947:

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 122



Memorandum J. Cochran, Jr. to Mr. Jcakins

RE: REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCOLIMITTEE
ON ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUGS
FOR INTERROGATION

"The Eurcau will not tolerate any experiments or participation
on the part of its personnel in the utilization of the so called truth
sexrums ov othor chemicals aliezed to have a similar cifcct. --+--
consequently, in the event any Eurcau agent violates these instructions,
drastic administrative action will be talon."

There was nothing found in Burcau files that would indicate that we
have reecived any documents from CIA concerning tacir drug research
programs, The files do reflect that we were aware that CIA was conducting
research with lysorgic acid diethylamide (LSD) and that British Intelligenee
had successfully utilized LSD on several Russian espionage ageats. The
information concorning CIA aud British activities is sct out for the benefit
of the Dircetor only and cannot be released outside the Burcau.

There are two Burcau files which contain most of the information
rdlatine to the immediate arca of intercct of the captioned Scnate Eubcommittes.
These files ave 622699 (Truth Serums) and 80-645 (Chemical Munitions and
Gases), Pertinent sorials may alse be found in 80-207 and 100-343077 as
| proviously noted in this memorandum.

I see no rcason why Mr. Michie and Mr. Susman chould not be
adforded on oral bricfine regarding these matters, ond if necessary make
portinent sorials of Bufiles 62-2699, 80-645, £0~807, and 100-343077 available
to thera for review.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

() That Mr, Michic and Mr. Susman bo advised by Lezal Coumsel that
available Eurcau records and interview with current lnowledgcable employee
indicate the FBI bas never cugoged in nor funded anyone's efforts in research
and/or development programs in the use or effect of drugs on human behavior.
They should be advised our cfforts in this record as far as can be established
from the available records consists of following through linison contacts with
other government agencies and the private sector sources the current
developments in behavior modifying drugs.

-3-

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 123



Memorandum J. Cochran, Jr. to Mx. Jenkins

RE: REQUEST BY SENATE JUDICIARY SUBCOMMITTEE
OW ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING USE OF DRUGS
FOR INTERRCGATION

(2) ‘That if thoy desire to purcuo this matter further, SA MeWricht
and myself bo permitted to meet with Michie and Susman to (2) reaffirm
the information in recommendation “1 and (b) if nccessary, to produce for
Lae or aaa pertinent serials from 62-0299, 80-645, €0~807, and

343077.

_ NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 124



X i ® , os Qe Me. a. @ sstoez
; = a "(+ Mx. J. B. Hotis)
7 ae - Mr, BD. U. Moore

+ Nr. J. Cochran

Hr, W. R. Wannall 11/6/75

: Mr. W. R. Wannall
Mr. W. 0. Cregar
L> Mr. C. G. MeWright
1 - Mr. J. P. Thomas

W.O. Cregar

SENSTUDY 75 qu inpoRwanon GonTANED
Ne Seas?

This is to inform you that on 11/7/75 Defense
Department will release to the Senate Select Committee (ssc),
the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Practices
z and Procedures (Senator Edward li, Kennedy's committee), and
to the press, information concerning Navy projects from
1947 to 1954 involving drug experimentation; a Navy file. .
indicates FBI was aware of programs but Laboratory has no
knowledge of any active participation by bureau personnel.

On 11/4/75, Clark McGruder, Assistant to Admiral
Bobby R. Inman, Director of Naval Intelligence, informed me
that on 11/7/75 the Navy was going to release to aforementioned
committees and the press information on drug experimentation
‘and that the FBI was mentioned in the pertinent files.
Those files were reviewed at the Pentagon on 11/6/75 by
Supervisor J. P. Thomas of INID. They had been classified”
. “Seeret'? and "Top Secret’ but now have been completely
declassified.. FBI was mentioned in connection with three
projects, There are no FBI documents in the files,

- A memorandum dated 9/21/50 from Mr, Alberti.to
Mr, C.D. Deioach was a receipt signed by Mr. Leioach for
_ one cooy of “vrugs Stated To Have Been Used By Russians And
.. Germans In Interrogation ‘echniques.” Alberti is identified
: elsewhere in the File as Jack U, Alberti, Office of Uaval
_ Intelligence (3 » who apparently coordinated the projects
mentioned in the file. The purpose of one project was to
develop a speecn-inducing drug to obtain intelligence. from
interregees and the project began in 1947,
Enclosures 5
62-116395 oon . as

wil.

7 NW 65360. Docld:32989602 Page. 125° : b a lA Cs 7

“


:_ wr 65360 ‘Docld:32989602.Page.126°

Memorandum te Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75 , .
62-116395 -

aan oa 0 af 7
. A tiemorandum dated 8/15/75 on letterhead of
Office of Chief of Naval Operations concerned “Top Secret
Naval Medical Research Institute (HMRI) Project on Speeche
Inducing iirugs,!' reported a meeting on 8/11/50 attended by’
personnel of ‘iMRI, CIA, Office of Naval Research (Cif), a
impany representative and Mr, Deloach and tir. 5. J. .

comp.
- Parsons of the FBI Laboratory. ‘he purpose of the meeting:

Was to brief the FBI.on a CIA project on narco-hypnosis and

~. on the NYRI project. Persons reportedly said the FBI had

no such project, but had information on the experiences of
various police departments in the United States with’ speech-
inducing drugs. He agreed to make the FBI information
available to:NMRI and CIA, ONR agreed to give FBI, NMRI
and CIA a stucy by ONR on projected research to improve.
polygraph ‘reliability. | Recipients were to give their comments
and recommendations on the study to ONR. At the meeting
NMRI gave Deloach an 8/11/50 SRI progress report. on its
project, Parsons agreed to look into the possibility of -
getting volunteers from prisoners in Federal institutions
and to supply MARI with canabis (marijuana) and heroin to
the extent they might be available to the FBI. It is noted
that no FEI representatives were liated in the memorandum

’ peporting a 9/27/50 meeting of this group and there is no

further record in the file of FEI participation. Neither is
there any record that the FBI supplied any drugs for the
project... : an : : : .

/Material regarding project ‘CHATTER included a
earbon copy of a rough draft merorancum (no letterhead)
bearing the penciled date “11/507" which contained the.
following, “Since 1947 the tepartment of the Navy has .
carried on a project “in cooratnetion with the repartments
of the Air Force and Aiy,.UIA and F31 for the develepment
of speech-inducing drugs.... ‘The virectors of Intelligence
of the theas dorviees, of CIA cod FAT qenstider this etateck .

COAKLUED © OVER



"Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75 ’ ~
62-116395 . .

-  « of utmost ashes and urgency to... fulfillment of their.
missions for the security of the United Stetes.” . The ©
memorandum says that a project submitted to Ot by Professor
Richard Wendt of the University of Rochester (NY) had been
approved by all the agencies involved and recommended a
funding the project. ‘he file indicates subsequently that —
this prolate did go forward and involve human experimentation,

Ae, WAS ette dealt with project "CALLING CARD,"
“= 1952=1953, designed “to render an individual subservient to
eee or control," FBI was not mentioned.

ge). : A memorandum dated 9/5/50 for Mr. D. J. Parsons,
‘BI; Cc. Edwards, CIA; and Captain Wilbur E. Kellum of

Naval Medical Research, from W. S. Post, Jr. (not further
identified), informed them that a copy of the report on the
“Ellson" project (University of Indiana, 1952) was being
forwardéed> to them for information. The project involved ©
research in the detection of deception. The addressees were
to be briefed by Professor D. G. Ellson of Indiana University
on the project et a future date, The file did not show that.
the bsbessrted occurred. The eed was terminated in aaaaas
1952. . :

7 The two files reviewed contained many reports of .
. feseatch conducted concerning various ‘drugs. in various parts
of the world, ‘constituting a collection of papers on the
subject by U. S. and foreign xesearchers,

. A review of logical Bureau files by the Laboratory -
Division disclosed. only one reference (62-2699-75) to the
above. This was a memorandum, 8/4/50, recording that

Mr, slberti, OUI, hed informed Liaison that the Navy had
“been bia nied a new al which might be used to great

_ NW.65360 Docld:32989602 Page:127" = {=



NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 128

Memorandim to He, W. R. Vannall
Re: Senstudy 75

"62-116395 -

advantage on espionage suspects. Navy offered te inform
us about this. A notation by Mr, beloach indicated that
Mr. Parsons would meet with Navy on 8/11/50. (iavy
Memorandum on this meeting set ovt above.)

We have received a memorandum dated 11/4/75 from

“Defense describing the proposed release of Navy information

to the committees and to the press, Copy of that memorandum

‘and of the press release are attached. The release says that
"Liaison was maintained with... the FBI" concerning the drug rescar.
. ACTION: Beleasey :

None, For record purposes.



ACL INFORMATION ud
HEREINIS_ UNC s}
DATE. BEATS BY SPZAUIO

L

NW"65360~Docld:32989602-Page 129 sSISEESEEEEE

PRESS RELEASE 7

\

NOVEMBER 7, 1975

The press statement released by the Navy today
relating to its drug research on human subjects for the
period 1947 through 1954 indicates liaison concerning this ©

project was maintained by the Navy with other Governmental

agencies, including the FBI.

A thorough review of FBI files has discloséd' one
document relating to this Navy research: a short internal
tInemorandum, dated August 4, 1950. This memorandum, prepared
by a member of the Liaison staff at FBI Headquarters, recorded
that a Navy official had invited FBI representatives to a
conference in the Washington area to “discuss the usage of
truth serum in Intelligence circles," and that the Navy had .-
made advances in developing a new drug which “could be utilized
to a great advantage in the questioning of espionage agents."
A handwritten notation on this memorandum directed that a
representative of the FBI Laboratory was to attend this
conference on August 11,5 1950.

No further identifiable reference to Navy drug
development research is contained in FBI files. No record
can be located that liaison was being maintained with the
Navy regarding this program, or that the FBI had knowledge

ware SF

of this program prior co ie ak
ENCLOSURE. ;
OBEY 2 BIS



IW 65360. Docid:32989602 Page 130 ~
ibaa =

The FBI was not involved in any way in this Navy
drug research, and the FBI has never participated in research
with drugs designed to modify human behavior, nor has it

funded such research.

-2- i . \



: at t 8

Mr. J. B. Adams
Mr, J. A. Mintz
(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

mofae “4

s
Ee NE
iF

: - Mr, W. R. Wapnall
The Attorney General Mr Baceal tr 24, 1975
ae aT eee
Direct FBI as ae « R. L. Shae! ‘or
me seca lo2- [leo7- 12a4 ir, F. J. Cassidy
RE 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

This is in response to the SSC letter dated
December 18, 1975, wherein Senators Mondale and Baker
requested rather detailed information to be made available os
during the last week of December, 1975, and the first week
of January, 1976.

Tt is noted that most of the requests in this
letter are so ambiguous that they require clarification

from the SSC before the FBI can logically respond. In one 2
instance, there is no way this Bureau could respond short S
i! of obtaining the recollections of Bureau Supervisors who re
: worked in the Intelligence Division extending back almost +
’ 20 years, Because of this, we are attaching for your et

approval and forwarding to the SSC the original of a
‘ memorandum which delineates the problems attendant to the
. request of December 18, 1975, and, in most instances, requests
, a meeting between Mr. John ELLi££, Domestic Task Force
Director, SSC, and representatives of this Bureau in the
hope that some alternatives or clarifications can be developed.
A copy of the memorandum is furnished for your records, {

if Enelosures sc) oe a 7), 16 }
"_ 62-116395 H | ry /

1 - The Deputy Attorney General ,
,
i?

Attention: Michael E, Shaheen, Jr.
Special Counsel for
Intelligence Coordination

woc:1nb [},b
(12)

AL INFORMATION CONTAINED», SEE NOTE PAGE 2
HEREIN gS UNCLASSIFIED, Ul? farted
bytelbf 3o)80 9y aa
Legal Coun. —_ —

Telephone Rm. —

tN
Director See'y MAIL ROOMC_] TELETYPE UNIT(_] GPO : 1975 © - 569-920

: nye
Se SH .
fs iat
Goal HoBiqgzgse602 Page 131

wn

7


The Attorney General

NOTE:

The request of 12/18/75 was received in the
Intelligence Division in the midafternoon of 12/22/75. A
conference was held on the morning of 12/23/75 of pertinent
Division personnel in an effort to identify the problems
connected with responding to this request. It is believed
that the only way the Bureau can logically respond to the
request is by obtaining clarifications and, in some instances,
alternatives to the requests set out.

We have already determined that both John E1liff
and the SSC Counsel, F. A. 0. Schwartz, aré out of the city
for the holidays, The Legal Counsel Division has left
word with Mr, Schwartz and/or Mr. ELLiff to call SA.Paul Daly
upon their return to the city.

Copy of 12/18/75 request attached.

p NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 132



Mr. J. ee

Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)
Mr. W. R. Wannall
Mr. J, G. Deegan

Mr. R, L. Shackelford

62-116395 Leeember 24, 1975

1-Mr. F. J. Cassidy
1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE To
STUDY GOVERMMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LELTER TO IMB
croft CONTAINED ATTORNEY GENERAL FROM SENATORS

AL INFORM ASSIED HONDALE AND BAKER
ve Dee Sead

Pee Ne
1

On December 22, 1975, this Dureau received a copy
of a letter dated December 18, 1975, which Senators Mondale
and Baker sent to the Attorney General levying certain
requirements on the FBI with a request that the responses
be provided the SSC during the last week of December, 1975,
and the first week of January, 1976.

Item 1 requested access te materials in the
investigative files for a six-month peried preceding acts
of violence which were prevented by actions taken by the FBI.
The specific preventive actions were set out in some detail
in a memorandum prepared for the SSC by the FBI dated
December 10, 1975,

Upon reecipt of referenced letter, the Intelligence
Division initiated efferta to isolate the files documenting
these preventive actions. The Burcau's response of
December 10, 1975, was predicated on a review of the
pertinent inspection reports of the Intelligence Division.
These reports do net document by file number the individual
: preventive actions. To locate specific files, it will be
cons sys — necessary to have knowledgeable Intelligence Division
fia cn. PeEsonnel queried in on effoxt to try to match the preventive
Gen. Inv. action with a particular investigative file. In some, ay a

Went, —___

an" ~WOC:1hblhb Oe
Giese (1) ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY To AG Oe, if f
=a oe ey te

Telephone Rm. —

Director Sec'y MAIL ROOMC_] TELETYPE UNIT [—_] b2 -PEBA- ae Kou yore

NW 65360 Docld: 32989602 Page 133



ry

os é

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LETIER TO THE ATIORNEY GENERAL
FROM SENATORS MONDALE AND BAKER

there will be no investigative file but merely a commnication
from a field office reporting information furnished by a
source of the FBI on which some preventive action was
predicated. It is possible that the acts of violence

reported by the source could involve a violation over which
the FBI had no investigative jurisdiction. In such cases,

the local field office would have merely furnished the
information to the appropriate law enforcement agency and

no investigative file would exist.

We are continuing our efforts to attempt to
isolate those files which document preventive actions.
However, because of the problems attendant thereto, as well
as those problems raised in the subparagraphs of Item 1, ~
it is recommended that a meeting be arranged between Mr. John
ELLiff, Domestic Task Force Director, and representatives
of this Bureau to discuss possible alternatives to some of
these requests.

Items.2 and 3 concern the September 24, 1975,
report to the House Judiciary Committee by, the General
Accounting Office. The FBI is in the process of preparing
a response and it will be made available to the Committee
as Soon as possible. However, it is noted that the FBI
prepared no analysis at all on the findings of the General
Accounting %ffice contained in their report of September 24, 1975.

Item 4 requests the annual reports from the
office of origin to FBI Headquarters for the investigation
of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., in 1963 through 1968, end
the Women's Liberation Movement for the years that organi-
zation was under investigation. Item 4 also requests anmal
reports available on the investigations "about which
materials were supplied pursuant to John EL1iff's request
of October 28."

-2-

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 134


@ | e

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LETIER IO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
FROM SENATORS MONDALE AND BAKER

There were no anmal reports submitted by the
office of origin to FBI Headquarters for the investigation
of Martin Luther King, Jr., in 1963 through 1968. With
regard to the Women's Liberation Movement, the SSC has been
provided copies of all pertinent reports for the years the
organization was under investigation. In an effort to
clarify what is meant by the anmal reports available on
the investigations about which materials were supplied
pursuant to Mr. John. Elliff's request of October 28, 1975,
it is again proposed that a meeting with Mr. EME be
arranged to clarify this ambiguity.

Item 5 requests specific examples of cases where
the FBI has taken action in the past similar to that which
would be authorized by Section IV of the Department of
Justice's guidelines draft on ‘Domestic Security Investigations,"

The indices of this Bureau are not organized to
enable retrieval of information of a "preventive action" |
character or examples of FBI actions taken to prevent
violence. The retrieval of such information from FBI files,
other than that described in the response to Item 1, would
require extensive review and/or dependence on the recollection
of individuals of occurrences extending back almost 20 years.
It is suggested that, during the proposed meeting with
Mr. John ELLIf£, this request be discussed.

Item 6 requests access to all FBI materials
pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr., the Poor Peoples’
Campaign and the Sanitation Workers Strike in Memphis,
Tennessee, from January 1, through April 4, 1968.

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 135


SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: DECEMBER 18, 1975, LETYER TO THE ATIORNEY GENERAL
FROM SENATORS MONDALE AND BAKER :

_It is this Bureau's belief that all pertinent

. Material pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr., for the
period January 1, through April 4, 1968, has been made
available to the SSC responsive to previous requests. With
regard to the Poor Peoples’ Campaign and the Sanitation
Workers Strike in Memphis, Tennessee, it is not clear
whether the letter is requesting access to the entire FBI
file on these two activities from the period January 1,
through April 4, 1968. It is recommended that a clarification
of this request can be accomplished during the previously
proposed meeting between Mr. John ELLiIff and eae
of the FBI.

Item 7 requests all materials pertaining to
"Project Overshoe." 7

A check of indices of the FBI regarding ‘Project
Overshoe,'' as well as the word Overshoe, fails to contain
any reference to either. Without additional information
regarding Project Svershoe,"' this Bureau cannot be
responsive to this specific request. Again, it is suggested
that, during the forthcoming meeting with John ELLIf£,
clarification of “Project Svershoe" be obtained.

1 - The Attorney General

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 136


f

24 . _—
5-1 Rey, 821-73) @ [

Intelligence Division

j INFORMATIVE NOTE
ssl Ve oe 1/5/76

RE: SENSTUDY 75 .

-Attached is a request from Senators
“\Mondale and Baker of the Senate Select
Committee (SSC) dated 12/18/75, The
Director has requested he be advised
regarding the status of this request,

Attached is a copy of a letter to the]
AG and LHM for the SSC, dated 12/24/75,
advising the AG that the request of
Senators Mondale and Baker require clari-
fication. On 12/30/75, Cregar and Daly
met with SSC Staff Members Gitenstein and
Epstein to obtain this clarification. As.
a result of this meeting, the following
understanding was developed regarding the
Mondale-Baker request;

Item 1 was reworded to make recovery
by the Bureau possible. In addition, C an
D under Item 1 were temporarily placed in
abeyance, (A partial response to Item 1
is currently being walked through signatur
process, )

. Items 2 and 3 are in signature process.

Item 4 was restricted to the annual
reports on some,31 organizations, This
will be time-consuming and we cannot ote
WOC :1hb CONTINUED = OVER poursit”

NW 65360 Doctd:32989602 Page 137



<9.

Assoc, Dir:
Dep. AD Adm. __
Dep. AD Inv. __

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs ___

Files & Com. __

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspectio
Intell. Pa

Laboratory _

on Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

pate _1/5/76
RE: SENSTUDY 75 ‘

hed is a request from Senators
d Baker of the Senate Select

Legal Coun. ___

Plan. &Eval.__| | (SSC) dated 12/18/75. The
Spec. Inv.____| lhas requested he be advised
Training the status of this request,

Telephone Rm. __
Director See'y —

iched is a copy of a letter to the
for the SSC, dated 12/24/75,
advising the AG that the request of
Senators Mondale and Baker require clari-
fication. On 12/30/75, Cregar and Daly
met with SSC Staff Members Gitenstein and
Epstein to obtain this clarification. As
a result of this meeting, the following
understanding was developed regarding the
Mondale-Baker request:

Item 1 was reworded to make recovery
by the Bureau possible, In addition, C ani
D under Item 1 were temporarily placed in
abeyance, (A partial response to Item 1
is currently being walked through signature
process.)

Items 2 and 3 are in signature process.

Item 4 was restricted to the annual
reports on some 31 organizations. This
will be time-consuming and we cannot yes
WOC :1hb CONTINUED - OVER Dos/Frar|

— NW 65360 Docld:32985602 Page 138



estimate when'we will complete Item 4,

Item 5 has been reduced to the recol-
lection of Bureau Supervisor David Ryan
who handled the COINTELPRO matter and will
not require research beyond what SA Ryan
can recall, (Ryan is currently developing
a response to this request.)

Item 6 has been reduced to all
materials relating to the Poor People's
Campaign, the Sanitation Workers Strike
in Memphis, Tennesee, and Martin Luther
King, Jr., contained in Headquarters files
between the period 1/1-4/4/68, (We are
currently working on this request.)

Item 7 ~ Epstein has agreed to obtain
more identifying data regarding Project
Overshoe and we are awaiting this
information,

9 [©

NW 65360 Docid:32989602 Page 139


ncaa o

“lt : @ oF e
‘ 4% FRANK CHURGH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN: ce i
: Senta iomen recta ack ania ‘ ;
Mh :
i

Pirenpenfenipitnantauznbepsecainaretd .
Ieauren fi woman, uaetce tanner carmwanca: naa RECEIVED
Mactan ts omeeastee Ret arcara aeaciad opr yE,,

| RRODERT MORGAN, tice RicHanD 5, ScHWEIKER, PAL 2 FOCE OF THE
ceermerena! i “Miritea DGiates Benate® ceuzgay

Gfesdisiol adn stiee Bacto
presemch se sanetiel ors er conten peseetraceeeteeeths

oo
eect Aine STUDY GovERNMenTAL orcnaTions wig: |! 1975

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
(eunsuan to 5. nes. 24, 4TH coNGHESS) ,

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 iat a2 Val

December 18, 1975 7

Bel, vay Collaleeas os ,
Attorney General Edward H. Levi Mn. uae

Room 5111 hun: py, saat hd Ledley

Department of Justice
tyre 6

‘Washington, D.C. 20530
-We have been-asked to chair a special subcommittee
of the Select Committee on Intelligence which will con- \ ow i
ANY J

Dear General Levi:

centrate on matters relating to domestic intelligence
activities of the Federal government. Our mandate is to
prepare for the full committee's consideration a draft
report of findings of fact on alleged abuses or excesses Im
by the FBI and other domestic’ intelligence agencies; the

causes of such alleged abuses or excesses and recommendation

which the Committee might make to remedy the problems we

have uncovered. :

We are aware of the fine work in which your staff has
been engaged in these areas and hope that they will be
available to work with the Committee staff on these matters.
However, the Subcommittee finds the Committee record needs
to be supplemented in several important respects and there- ~*
fore finds it necessary to direst a number of requests to
the FBI for further information which we hope will be
Be treated cn a priority basis so that the Subcommittee can

gas meet the deadlines set by the full committee. These and
future requests which will be handled between the two
committee counsel or Mr. Elliff, Domestic Task Force Leader,
and Mr. Shaheen, epeciake Ks sel for Intelligence Coor-
dination, will pertain elie information necessary for

us to formulate meaningful Eecoqmendations and to pursue arse
matters on certain specificRifDkged Apu, sig Bie |
unsettled. Among the future reques ee Fu Ss

pertaining to your guidelines on "Domestic Security~Inyves-

i eigations" and on manpower and budget statistics for the
BI jaestic intelligence program. ees 76
7 “en . saat
| i © meet the deadline set by the full™ddiittee,
ref a@ithat the inform¢tion requested below be

SS SE
_NW 65360 Das LAPALO Boge 140 ms



i ; : . ul 7 as
Woe eBameemnindt, ww, cmsmman :
= gate a Stun Pees ease evans = i
‘PHILIP A. HART, MICH. HOWARD H. BASER, JR. TENN. 7,

WALTER F- MONDALE, Minn, ‘Cammy COLOWATER, ane = Bo EIVED
Gir taiortsat,  MEmAe iw are
ware Goreeeegon Sistas Sette
Sian ona aidhited States Berle CEMERAL ;

vr o wnean sar amacon

en tet eT ee, said ecsilamttao
cone eee - STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS wee i 1g 1975
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITH

(eunsuant To 8. nes. 21, 4TH CONGRESS) .

| WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 . 742 as

‘December 18,1975

"Attorney General Edward H. Levi bh add i

Room 5111 ed 1 Dp) q

‘ Department of Justice y lasendl ladys
‘Washington, D.C. 20530 i" ee

Dear General Levi:

- We have been: asked to chair a special subcommittee
of the Select Committee on Intelligence which will con-
centrate on matters relating to domestic intelligence
activities of the Federal government. Our mandate is to
prepare for the full committee's consideration a draft
report of findings of fact on alleged abuses or excesses
‘by the FBI and other ‘domestic ‘intelligénce agencies; the
.causes of such alleged abuses lor excesses and récommendation,
which the Committee might make to remedy: the problems we
have ‘uncovered. i

We are aware.of the fine work in which -your: staff has
been engaged in these areas and hope that they will be {
available to work. with the Committee staff.on these matters.

However, the Subcommittee finds the Committee record needs

to be supplemented in several important respects and there-

fore finds it necessary to direct a number of requests to

the FBI for further information which we hope will be

‘treated cn a priority basis so that the Subcommittee can

meet the deadlines set by the :full committee. These and

future requests which will be handled between the two

committee counsel or Mr. E1liff, Domestic Task Force Leader,

and Mr. Shaheen, specsabeat el for Intelligence Coor- —

dination, will pertain 2 information necessary for

us to formulate meaningful recommendations and to pursue .

matters on certain ‘speci ficREtblged es. pit -/ |

unsettled. Among the future reques ee

pertaining to your guidelines -on "Domestic Séctivity—tayes~ i

fe tons" and on manpower and braid statistics for the’ / i
26 1976 |

o meet the deadline set by the THE" ES commctee,,
algethat the informdtion requested below be

NW 65360 i cBmopesGi Pye 141 SE ,


Attorney General Edward H. Levi

Page Two December 18, 1975

‘provided during the last week of December and the first
week of January:

1. With respect to each.of the examples of effective
prevention of violence provided the Committee pursuant to
John Elliff's letter of November 26 to Mr. Shaheen, please
provide access to materials in the investigative file
for the 6-month period preceding the act of violence
prevented. Please deliver:

(a) All materials relating to the legal and
factual predicate for each investigation;

(b) The first
outside the FBI in.
recipients of that:

(c) The total

investigative report disseminated
each such case, and a list, of
report;

number ‘of individuals whose names

were referred to the FBI's general name index in
the course of each investigation;

(a) The total number of individuals about whom
information was obtained through informants, confi-
@ential sources, physical surveillance, electronic
surveillance and other sensitive techniques; and

(e) The annual report from the office of origin
for each.such investigation to FBI headquarters for
the-last five years during which the case in question
was an open investigation.

~

2. Please provide any information which you have
refuting the suggestion made on page 34 of the General
Accounting Office's September 24 report to the House Judiciary
Committee, that cases in which violence can be predicted
probably represent less than 2% of all FBI domestic Tisha
ligence investigations.

3. Please provide all memoranda or analyses prepared
for the Justice Department, Director Kelley, or Assistant
Director Wannall on the findings of the General Accounting
Office as presented to the House Judiciary Committee on
September 24,

4. Please provide the annual report from the office
of origin to FBI headquarters for the investigation of

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 142



Attorney Gerieral Edward H. Levi

Page three December 18, 1975

Dr. Martin Luther King in 1963 through 1968, and for the
investigation of the Women's Liberation Movement for the
years that that organization was under investigation, and
the annual reports available on the investigations about
which materials were supplied pursuant to John Elliff's

- request of October 28.

ana een AS CORE

5. Please provide specific examples of cases where
the FBI has taken action in the past similar to that which
would be authorized by Section IV on "preventive action"
of the draft Department of Justice's guidelines on “domestic
security investigations.

6. Access to all. FBI.materials pertaining to Dr. Martin |
Luther King, Jr., the Poor People's Campaign, and the
Sanitation Workers Strike in Memphis, Tennessee, from Eee a
January 1 through April 4, 1968.

7. All materials pertaining to "Project Overshoe."

Thank you for your prompt consideration of this
request. We look forward to continuing cooperation on
this area of joint concern.

ee ETE

Sincerely,
: NW. Mondale : aoe ase
Chairman —,

ae

ice-Chairman

—NWW"65980-Bocld:32989602-Rage-1


5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Acgosces: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE : |
COLTR GLHM CoMemo Report datea__12/24/75
Ua,5., Senate Select Committee (SSC).

had fstesecicinuaeia (12/18/75 Letter to the Attorney
General from Senators Mondale & Baker) ‘

Originating Office: FBI -
Delivered by: Date: _/4- 30-75

Received by:

Title:

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN 16, UNPLASSIFIED
ter goon evaR2N MP

va-peaas~ 1ao4dk

——H\.65360_Docid:32989602 Page 144



TE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE wr BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Community Staff 4
ATIN: Central index

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

for review but not transmitted, so note.)
12/24/75

1, HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available i DATE PROVIDED

cocument | [omerine | [uwrenview |] vesviwony | [ornen

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific: names if appropriate)

4, IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum

.

+ IN RESPONSE To (List date and item number if in response to formal request, other- .| 6. CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION Center|
U, C, S, TS or

SSC letter 12/18/75 aanauacea

Tied U

+ KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis) . :

. Information handling | : 7 |

. SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

Requesting clarification of items listed in request received from
Senators Mondale and Bakerregarding preventive actions; 9/24/75 H
report of the House Judiciary Committee by the General Accounting }
Office; Annual reports from the office of origin to FBIHQs for .
investigation of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.;' pertinent |
materials pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr. for the period 1
1/1 thru 4/4/68 previously made available. Clarification with
regard to Poor Peoples! Campaign and the Sanitation Workers
Strike in Memphis, Tenn; "Project Overshoe." : }
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED :

HEREIN 4S UHCLASSIFH 1 Z a i
Sapa eau? coray As YELLOW |
6?-116395 ty fe
FRC: frak EEE . :
(4) “ORIGINAL VIA LEATSON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SESSTUDY 75 /

Lo Got Ab BIS TP.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
3791 6.75)

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 145 |



é

in 4 L-t, d. B. Adams
L-t%, 5. W. Walsh
a Qw. G. He Melek)
tir. W. Re Wannal 12/1/95
, L-ie. J. oan :
a Me. Py i. Lovine
J. Gs Bopgan = Bes aS mame
oa 7 ~ ti. We Re Wannald
; ~ lr. ¥. 0. Cregar
MARTIN LUTIER KENG, Jn. 1 = Me. J. G. Doosan
1- Mr. S. F. Phiilips

7 This informative nemorandun to record uncucecesiul
’ efforts to pinpoint the typoweiter on which was typed an
: snonynous letter apparently directed te subject, the oririnal
| _ of which was located in papers Left behind on the retirenont
of former Assistant to the Director Willian C, Sullivan,

Uxanination of the questioned docunent by the
Laboratory established that tho typing was done on a Royal
typewriter with pica style type. ‘Yo checked available
inventory records miuintained by the Adrinistrative Division
as well as our own in IND to locate 211 Royal typewriters
which wore in the thon Pouestic Intellipence Division (1D)
around 1804, hia gscarch was bascd on the suspicion that tho
note was typed by Sullivan on a typowriter aczessiblo to hin
in 1904 when he was Aggistant Director of tho DiD.

Ow checks rovenled that there aro available only
four typewriters of the type sought which were likely in the
DID in 1964, ALL four sre presently in INTD and three of then
were readily olininated ag not identical to that which produced
the questioned cocunent on the basi that all three have
closed 4s", whereas the questioned document has an open ended
"4", The fourth typewriter, sexial nucber WG 10-4350013, is
raintained in room 4220 and charged to the IS-2 Section, it
wad examined by Supervisor F. M. Bevine of the Document cection
of the Laboratory who advised that it is not identical to -the
typewriter which produced the questioned document.

Ali LC - ae

Loosross70

| (4) c2n116595 Gmnerey 75)

- CONTINUED ~ oven
SFP rbkb THON CONTAINED

HEREIN

| (10) ALL INFO!
/ ene

84,06 2.9,1978 ROUTE IN ENVELOPE



Memorandum to Mr. W, &. Wennall
Re: Martin Luther King, Jr.
100106670

Ve axe conducting no further inquiry at this tine
to establish the whereabouts of the typowriter which produced
the anonymous Lotter,

RECOMMENDATION:

None. For informetion and record purposes,

NW 65360 Docld:32989602 Page 147

