# docid-32295892

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10216-10168

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-70

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/30/1960

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

sosassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NV

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32295892 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

NO 92-36

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA:

(1)

Will continue efforts to develop Information re-

garding the activity of Subject MARCELLO.

(2)

W11l maintain contact with Internal Revenue

Service.

• (3)

Will maintain contact with Immigration & Naturalization

Service.

(4)

Will at the conclusion of the investigation at

Washington Field Office consider requesting the Bureau to have

Investigation conducted at Guatemala City, Guatemala in effort

to determine if Subject MARCELLO obtained a Guatemala birth

certificate.

AT LAFAYETTE, LOUISIANA:

Will continue to maintain contact with TOM MOORE,

manager of the Town House Motel to determine MARCELLO's activity

in the Lafayette area.

AT SHREVEPORI ~ LOUISIANA:

(1)

Will continue efforts to develop Information re-

garding MARCELLO's activity in the Shreveport area particularly

his business and social affairs.

(2)

Will maintain contact with PCI PAULINE MORSE.

INFORMANTS

T-1 1s OSCAR CABALLERO, Special Agent, U. S.

Intelligence Service, Bureau of Internal Revenue.

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32295892 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36 /tal

T-2 1S ALBERT LAWRENCE PILLSBURY, JR., formerly an

informant, NO 1126 C.

T-3 IS PCI MIKE CILLICH, JR.

1-4 1s POI PAULINE MORSE®

T-5 18 POT RUTH EATON.

T-6 IS GLADYS HEBERT, owner of the Abbeville,

Louisiana, Credit Bureau.

T-7 Is TOM MOORE, Manager, Town House Motel,

Lafayette, Louisiana.

T-8 1s former PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN.

T-9 Is PCI BETTY PARENT•

T-10 1S JOSEPH PHILIP BARRACO, POI

T-11 is FANNIE MAE GOLDMAND

owner and operator,

Creole Masion Hotel, 1437 Washington

Avenue.

T-12 is Phoenix 657-0•

T-13 1% PCI SALVADORE LOVOI.

T-14. 13 R. W. BURROW,

Chief Special Agent, Southwest

Bell Telephone Company;

Dallas,

Texas.

ADMINISERATIVE

Interviews with JOHN MATHEW MLADINICH, ANDREW. JAKE

MLADINICH, and CARE IRVING NOLL were recorded on 302's in the

investigation captioned,

"CARLOS MARCELLO; VINCENT MARCELLO,

ITGD, 00J,

New Orleans File Number 143-05

Information received

from

the above-listed PCI was recorded on 302's in their 137

file.

D*

COVERS PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32295892 Page 3

---

