# docid-32334804

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90118-10163

HQ

92-2897-73

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/10/1959

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:Nw

69262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

, NW 68262 Docld:32334804 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Repent Pers

PD 888 (8-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Roporter Ossses

OKLAHOMA CITY

Ottoo ad Origh

DALLAS

ITS Or CASES

HARRY RAYMOND POPE, aka -

FUGITIVE

I.0. #3285

8/10/59

6/10 = 8/8/59

sit made by

CHARLES FE ALDEN

HARACTER OR CASE

UNFUL MIGHT 10:AVOL

PROSECUTION - BURGLARY;

ASSAUST. WITH A DANGEROUS LEAPON

Typod byt

REFERENCES

Dallas airtel to Director dated 6/5/59.

Summary report of SA ROBERT M. BARRETT dated 7/29/59 at Dallas.

-p-

LEADS

THE DALLAS DIVISION:

At Dallas, Texas:

1. Will locate the residence and place of employment,

Of MARJORIE LOFTIS, sister of PEGGY ANNE FRYE, Whose

phone number Is Fleetwood 23245, and endeavor to arrange for

discreet coverage of these places against the eventuality that

FRYE may contact her sister in person.

Approved

Copios mado:

Wres

Special Agent

Is Chargo

2

Bureau

-

Dallas

92-2091

88-2749

Houston

- Oklahoma C1tj/1q88-2364)W 2:

Do not trito la spacos below.

92-2897 - 73 180

AUG 17 1959

: 2:

• 1959

TUY

SHEAT SECT.

verty of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor lis contents are lo be distributed outside the agency to which low

# U, 8, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 O-844750

-

NW 68262 Docld:32334804 Page 2

---

## Page 3

oc 88-2364

2. Will endeavor to identify and locate "RUBY"

• last

name unknown, mother of FRYE, to the same end.

It is suggested that,

in the interest of discretion,

In order that the suspicions of LOFTIS, FRYE and "RUBY"

above, may not be unduly aroused, the

held in abeyance pending a determination of the productivity

Of DORIS HOWARD as an informant in this matter.

will be kept advised of progress made with DORIS HOWARD at

Oklahoma City.

THE HOUSTON DIVISION:

At Pasadena, Texas:

Will contact SAM HOOVER, attorney, who allegedly

will know the whereabouts of PEGGY ANNE FRYE or will know

how to locate her, in an effort to develop FRYE's whereabouts

since it is indicated that POPE and FRYE are traveling together.

It is pointed out that the fact that DORIS HOWARD furnished

information to the above effect should not be revealed since

she furnished

this information in confidence.

THE OKLAHOMA CITY DIVISION:

At El Reno, Oklahoma:

1. Will maintain contact with law enforcement officials

in order to develop any information coming to their attention

bearing upon the location of subject.

2. Will maintain contact with confidential sources

to the same end.

At Oklahoma City, Oklahoma:

Will conduct same investigation as set out for El Reno,

Oklahoma.

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE:

A

COVER PAGE

!!"

NW 68262 Docld:32334804 Page 3

---

## Page 4

oc 88-2364

OC file Number 26-17115, entitled "RUBY DORIS HOWARD,

aka; PEGGY ANNE FRYL,

aka, ITSMV,

Albuquerque origin"

• contains

information that HOWARD and FRYE

arrested NMSP in possession

of stolen auto, 3/29/55, armed with . 38 revolver, later convicted

ITSMV; that HOWARD's sister is Mrs. GORDON MITCHELL ("MICKEY"),

whose ex-husband, GORDON MITCHELL, is an Oklahoma City Bootlegger;

that FRYE and HOWARD have resided with "MICKEY" MITCHELL at

Route 2, Box 117, Choctaw, Oklahoma; that HOWARD is an

accomplished burglar in her own right and that FRYE drove the

getaway car. for one HURBIE FRANKLIN FERRIS as he fled after

being wounded in a gun battle, during which FERRIS killed an

Oklahoma City policeman in July, 1954. FERRIS was later

electrocuted. "

On June 12, 1959, RUBY WHITTAKER, Clerk, USPO,

Choctaw, Oklahoma, advised SAS CHARLES F. ALDEN and JOHN J.

FLANAGAN

that "MICKEY" MITCHELL had moved to 229 West Steed

Drive, Midwest.

City, Oklahoma. This address was located and

spot checked with negative results. It was determined that a

neighbor of MITCHELL's was J. H. BARTELL, 209 West Steed Drive.

On June 12, 1959, SA RICHARD W. BOYD obtained from

Mr. O. L. COX, Retail Merchants Credit Association,

Oklahoma City, information that Mr. BARTELL, above,

was a

retired oil company employee; that his wife was employed at

the USAF Base, Tinker Field,

Midwest City, Oklahoma, and that

the BARTELLS had been on record since 1952 as having a satisfactory

credit rating.

On the same date, Captain A. C. MYLER, Identification

Bureau, Oklahoma City Police Department, telephonically

informed SA ALDEN

that Mr. and Mrs. BARTELL, above, had no

police record.

for out-of-state

cars and for PEGGY ANNE FRYE or the subject.

He was shown photos of fRyE, PopE and DORIS HOWARD. He stated

that DORIS HOWARD was, at that time, residing with Mrs. MITCHELL.

Mr. BARTELL requested

that his cooperation in this matter be

kept confidential.

The above arrangement produced no information of value

and on August 7, 1959 DORIS HOWARD, 209 West Steed Drive, Midwest

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32334804 Page 4

---

## Page 5

OC 88-2364

City, Oklahoma, was contacted by SAs CHARLES E. ALDEN and

FRANK L. MELLOTT, at which time she was reluctant to discuss

She stated that she feared that FRYE might be

harmed if she were present when POPE was arrested. She was

assured that every possible precaution would be taken to insure

that no harm came to FRYE or any other innocent person, upon

She stated that she could determine the

whereabouts of FRYE and agreed to do so and inform the agents.

She stated that she last saw POPE in the Summer of 1958 in

Dallas, Texas, at which time he was in the company of one

LOUISE

NORRIS.

She stated she could furnish no information

concerning NORRIS.

She also informed the agents that FRYE has

a sister in Dallas, Texas named MARJORIE LOFTIS. She stated

she did not know the address of LOFTIS but that her phone

number was Fleetwood 23245. She further stated that an

attorney in Pasadena, Texas named SAM HOOVER will know the

whereabouts of FRYE.

She expressed doubt that HOOVER, LOFTIS Or

"RUBY"

would cooperate with agents in the location of FRYE or

POPE. She requested that her cooperation in this matter be

kept confidential and was assured that such would be the case.

On August 8, 1959, DORIS HOWARD telephonically

advised SA CHARLES F. ALDEN that she had telephonically

contacted MARJORIE LOFTIS in Dallas and had learned that

LOFTIS last saw FRYE four or five days previously in Dallas.

She stated she was afraid to inquire concerning POPE because

she might arouse the suspicions of LOFTIS.

Further, according

to HOWARD, LOFTIS had said that FRYE had been trying to get

in touch with HOWARD but was unable to do so since she had

HOWARD indicated that she arranged for FRYE to be

furnished the necessary information so that she could contact

She also informed the agent that FRYE has a small daughter,

DONNA, who lives in Dallas with FRYE's mother, one RUBY, last

name and address unknown, and that FRYE often visits her mother

and daughter there.

She

stated that she would continue her

efforts to locate

FRYE and would immediately advise the agent of

any information she developed.

The following PCIS of the Oklahoma City Office, who

have wide acquaintance within the criminal element of the southwes.t...

were contacted, as indicated, in an effort to develop infor-

mation of value in this investigation but with negative

results.

They all agreed to remain alert for information

concerning POPE or FRYE and to promptly report to the Oklahoma

City Office any Information coming to their attention.

C

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32334804 Page 5

---

## Page 6

OC 88-2364

CHARLES HANDLEY (OC file 137-779), by SAs ALDEN and

JOHN J. FLANAGAN On

6/15,16/59;

FLETCHER HANDLEY (OC file

137-780), by SAs ALDEN and

JOHN J. FLANAGAN On 6/15,16/59;

GARNER D. PETTIGREW (OC file 137-717), by SAs ALDEN

and JOHN J. FLANAGAN

on 6/15,16/59;

LEROY B. MCMANAMAN (OC file 137-270), by SAs ALDEN

AND JAMES A. KEENAN, JR. on 7/16/59.

viewing the photos of POPE and FRYE, stated they were unknown

to him.

He agreed to remain alert for any information coming

to his

attention concerning these individuals and, on a confidential

basis,

to furnish any information he received to the Oklahoma

City

Office.

D

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32334804 Page 6

---

