# docid-34517446

## Page 1

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

Case#:NW 64954 Date:

11-14-2022

Date :

08/25/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10002-10204

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 1378-1412

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]

TO :

TITLE : I RESTRICTED 1

DATE.:

05/12/67

PAGES

: 35

SUBJECTS

: SCHEER, ROBERT

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

W. E. B. DU BOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

POLITICAL CAMPAIGN

REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/02/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE WITH RESTRICTIONS, PER LTR

DTD 5 NOV 97

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 1

---

## Page 2

aD-20$ MRev. 3-3-591

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy to:

I-Secret Service,

San Francisco

(Class 3) (RM)

Report of:

Date:

WILLIAM E. HUGHES

5/18/67

Office: SAN FRANCISCO

Field Office File #:

100-46832

Title:

ROBERT SCHEER

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - SWP

Bureau File #: 105-106720

REVIEWED BY FRUIFK. TASK FORCE

ON 12/91d

C RELEASE IN FULL

* RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

Synopsis:

ROBERT SCHEER and his wife, ANNE, reside at 1104 High Court,

Berkeley,

Calif.

He is employed

as Managing Editor of

'"Ramparts" magazine, 301 Broadway, San Francisco, Calif.

He visited London, England, and Prague, Czechoslovakia, In :

early 1967 on an assignment for "Ramparts" .SHe was defeated

as a Democratic Party candidate for U. S. Congressman from

the ith CD of California in the June, 1966 primary election.

He received communist support during his campaign.

He has

continued active in opposition to U. S. involvement in Vietnam

„since his defeat at the polls.

_P-

DETAILS:

I. BACKGROUND

CLASSIFEOSY 5668SLO/GGL

IFY ON: 251(1 (6)

16) 5/23/47 PER 190-6739-44)

Residence

ROBERT SCHEER and his wife, ANNE, reside at 1104 High

court, Berkeley, California.

SECR

Mrs. KAZUKO NISHITA

2152 Oregon Street

Berkeley,

California,

on 4/11/67

USA PSG

s151-7

1378

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

3054318-1

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRE

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

Employment

ROBERT SCHEER is employed as Managing Editor of

"Ramparts

magazine, 301 Broadway, San Francisco, California.

"Ramparts" magazine,

issue of 4/67

Portrait of SCHEER

"Human Events" publication, washington, D.C.: in its

issue of April 8, 1967, carried

a story headlined, "The Inside

Story of 'Ramparts' Magazine". A portion of this story,

"Scheer's Radicalism"

• reads as follows:

"Probably the best known nationally of Ramparts'

staffers is Managing Editor Robert Scheer, who, at

of has made a career of New Leftism. A former member

the pro-Castro Fair Play for Cuba Committee, he

is the most articulate of the Ramparts crew and con-

tends that he is an anti-Communist.

"Last year Scheer ran for the Democratic nomi-

nation for U. S. Congress in Berkeley, hinging his

entire campaign on getting out of the war in viet

Nam and getting into the

"War on Poverty. ' Several

weeks ago, Scheer traveled to Prague, Czechoslovakia,

to meet with the Communist-controlled International

Union of Students and representatives of the National

Liberation Front, the political arm of the Communist

Viet Cong in South Viet Nam.

"Not publicized in his race for Congress but

revealed later was the fact that Scheer's campaign

coordinator was Carl Bloice, a 28-year-old Communist

party member.

Bloice's CP membership was hardly a

secret; for several years he had been

by-lined staff

writer for People's world, the Communist weekly on

the West Coast, and then he was publications director

of the Communist-controlled W.E.B. DuBois Clubs.

1379

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

"From Berkeley to D.C.

"At last summer's Communist party convention in

New York City, Bloice

vas elected to the CP's National

since at least January 1964, although intelligence

agencies place it many years earlier.

"Just two months ago the newsletter of the Robert

Scheer campaign - he is keeping his organization intact

under the name of Community for New Politics (CNP) -

carried a social note:

'Carl Bloice, heretofore

a farewell party December 23 at the home of Mr. and

Mrs. Robert Scheer, Carl was presented with several

going-away gifts, including a larger than life poster

of Mao-Tse Tung.... Carl has indicated he will be an

occasional correspondent [for the Scheer newsletterl....

We all wish him the best of luck in Washington and

we feel fully comforted by the fact that we are not

losing a coordinator, but gaining a spy.'

"Tax

Money Helped

"The portrait of Mao probably brought a gust

of laughter when it was unveiled and presented to the

Moscow-line Bloice, and the 'gaining a spy' phrase was

simply New Left humor. The story makes two important

points: 1) Scheer's campaign manager was a Communist;

and 2) The Capital correspondent for two Communist

newspapers will contribute occasional articles to

Scheer's campaign organization.

"Scheer has told Human Events that he hired Bloice

'for his technical competence'; that he likes him as

a person, but violently disagrees with his politics.

"Communist Bloice, however, was only one of Scheer's

supporters. Another backer was

the U. S. Treasury,

1.380

3

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

-SE 100-46832

WEH: kah

which channeled

funds

into Scheer's campaign.

It

worked this way.

During his campaign one

workers was Mrs. Phyllis Haberman O'Donnell, who has

been chairman of the East Bay Dußois Club.

Mas. O'Donnell

worked on a work-study program directed by the

University of California's Department of Criminology

(which is now practically another Sociology Department)

and was assigned to a leftist group called welfare

Rights Organization as a case worker.

In truth, she

worked for the Scheer campaign and reported on it

at WRO meetings.

"The work-study program was originally funded

through the Office of Economic Opportunity, receives

it's funds through the National Defense Education Act

and is overseen by the Department of Health, Education

and Welfare."

writings

ROBERT SCHEER is the author of a pamphlet written

Ion the center for the study of Democratic Institutions, which

he later condensed into an article for "Ramparts" magazine

entitled, "The Vietnam Lobby.

The article purports to show

how various Americans worked to misinform the public about

Vietnam.

The persons whom SCHEER holds responsible for misleading

the American people are JOSEPH KENNEDY, Cardinal SPELLMAN,

ARTHUR SCHLESINGER, JR., NORMAN THOMAS, J. BRACKEN LEE,

General EDWARD LANSDALE, MARVIN LIEBMAN, and others.

SE T-1 on 3/3/67

Foreign Trips

ZYGMUNT BRONIAREK, the Washington, D.C. correspondent

for "Trybuna Ludu", Polish daily newspaper and official organ

of the Polish United Workers (Communist) Party (PZPR) met on

April 13, 1966, with ROBERT SCHEER, Democratic candidate

Congress

from the 7th Congressional District of California.

SF T-2 on 4/14/66

4

1381

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

Trip to Prague, 1967

The "San Francisco Examiner" newspaper, issue of

February 24, 1967, carried a page l news article

headlined,

Ramparts Editor at Prague leet

by CARL ROWAN. This article

explained that "a few days ago a brief, cryptic report out of

Prague; Czechoslovakia, was passed among a handful of top

officials in Washington"., The report said that an editor of

"Ramparts" magazine had visited Prague and held "a long, secret

session" with officers of the Communist controlled International

Union of Students (IUS):

The article continued by stating that "Ramparts" is

the magazine that exposed the fact that the Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA) had been financing the National Student

Association (NSA), which in turn had worked for several years

entire question don retation tee ase eten ramparts"

•and the IUS.

ROWANT telephoned ROBERT SCHEER, Managing Editor of

"Ramparts"

, in San Francisco and SCHEER admitted that he had

met with representatives of the National Liberation Front,

political arm of the Communist Viet Cong, in South Vietnam,

and also with IUS officers in Prague "several weeks ago" for two

In response to a question as to who controlled IUS,

SCHEER replied, "It is essentially an organ of the foreign

SCHEER emphasized that he had

visited IUS headquarters strictly for journalistic reasons

and that he was in Europe writing a story for "Ramparts" on

94-year-old British philosopher who

plans a Vietnam

he one nue on to taste check he treat on emine sona

of the "Ramparts"

We don't truck with Communism in Ramparts.

sChEER volunteered,

We compare the

U. S. position in Vietnam with the actions of the Soviet Union

in Hungary.

Both are intolerable and we make no bones about it.

Any attempt to smear us

at Ramparts is libelous and we'll

I warned

the same

thing when they were muttering

about me being a Communist when I

ran for Congress"

A characterization of the IUS is contained

in the appendix.

5

SECRET

1382

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

Trip to London and Prague, 1967 (52

ROBERT SCHEER was in London, England, January 26, 1967,

and claimed that he was engaged in writing an article about

the

International Student Conference (ISC) for

the magazine

"Ramparts" of which he is Editor.

The article was intended

to 'be an exposure of the ISC and, in order to obtain material

for it, SCHEER was planning a two day visit to the headquarters

of the

International Union of Students (IUS) in Prague.

SCHEER

was seeking information on the passing of financial assistançe

from the ISC to student unions in Africa and Latin America. (S2

While in London, SCHEER met with FERGUS NICHOLSON,

National Student Organizer of the Communist Party of Great

Britain, and with DAVID HOROWITZ, an American postgraduate

student at the London School of Economics, io has been closely

connected

the bertrand Russell Peace Foundation. (S)

SCHEER planned to leave London for Amsterdam on

January 27, 1967, and then to Paris before travelling to

Prague January 29, 1967.(5)

SF T-3,

a foreign source

abroad (Son 2/1/67

SCHEER for Congress Campaign

Rally May 28, 1966

ROBERI SCHEER was one of the speakers at a national

anti-napalm rally of 1,500 to 2,000 persons on May 28s 1960, at

United Technology Center, Redwood City, California, protesting

against the manufacture of napalm for use in the Vietnam war.

Observation of SAs

of the FBI

Du Bois Clubs Support

'A meeting of the San Francisco W.E.B. Du Bois Club

was held at 250 Page Street, San Francisco, on May 22,

1966.

This meeting was concerned principally with the ROBERT SCHEER

campaign for U. S. Congress.

It was agreed that the Du Bois

Clubs would support SCHEER and actively campaign in his behalf.

SCHEER was not present at the meeting.

SE T-4 on 5/27/66

1383 6

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

San Francisco W.

1ib. Du bois club members cravellec

to East Oakland, California, June 4, 1966, where they canvassed

the persons who were registered Democratic in the various

precincts and requested them to vote for ROBERt ScheEr for

Congress.

SF T-5 on 6/7/66

A characterization of the W.E.B. Du Bois

Clubs of America is contained in the appendix.

A characterization of the San Francisco. Du Bois

Club is contained in the appendix.

The "Berkeley Daily Gazette" newspaper, Berkeley,

California, issue of June 9, 1966,

carried a news article

regarding the defeat of ROBERT SCHEER in his campaign

as Democratic

candidate for U. S. Congressman from the 7th Congressional

District of California.

This article stated SCHEER received

a total of 28,751 votes, while his Democratic opponent, JEFFREY

COHELAN, received 35,270 votes:

This indicates SCHEER captured

45 per cent of the votes in this primary election.

The newspaper

quoted SCHEER as stating "From now on I'm the shadow Congressman

in this District."

He

added that he would be a write-in candidate

for U. S. Congressman in the November, 1966 election unless

Congressman JEFFREY COMELAN stopped supporting the Vietnam war

and

unless

COHELAN faced up to the serious social problems

in the U. S.

SCHEER added that he and his backers were "building

a political movement in this District and this campaign was

only the opening wedge."

During the interview, SCHEER said the cost of running

his campaign had been $35,000 to $40,000, most of it being

donated by

"students, housewives, longshoremen

and what-have-you,"

and none of it coming from his own pocket.

He said, "When I

started this campaign I didn't have a dime."

June 18, 1966, carried a news article headlined,

"Scheer Forces

to. Stay in Business".

This article pointed out that in the

Democratic primary election held June 7, 1966, ROBERT SCHEER

7

1384 SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 8

---

## Page 9

ECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

captured 44.9 per cent of the vote against the incumbent

Congressman JEFFREY COMELAN in the 7th Congressional District

of California. The article quoted SCHEER as stating he and

his supporters would continue the community battle on issues

and

stated they planned to enter candidates

in the race for

municipal and county offices in 1967.

The Pl is a West Coast Communist newspaper

published

weekly in San Francisco.

The "Berkeley Daily Gazette, issue of July 14, 1966,

carried a news article headlined,

"Scheer Carried Berkeley".

The article explained that in the June, 1966 primary election,

ROBERT SCHEER carried the City of

Berkeley by a vote of 14,625,

as opposed to Congressman COHELAN'S 12,165 votes.

This analysis

referred only to the vote in Berkeley. and not in the entire

7th Congressional District.

Financing of Congressional Campaign

A closed membership meeting of the Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) was held at 873 Broadway, New York, New York, on

June 30, 1966.

During this meeting one of the members said he

had attended a National Conference

for New Politics and this

organization has a $100,000 fund.

Contributions from this fund

were described as having been made to different organizations

and individuals, including $1,000 to ROBERT SCHEER for his

election campaign.

SF T-6 on 7/14/66

The SUP has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

The "Berkeley Daily Gazette" newspaper, issue of

March 21, 1966, carried a news article stating that a fund-raising

party had

been held at 2512 Regent Street, Berkeley, on March 19,

1966, and some time during the evening a cashbox containing

$320 had been stolen.

this party was held to raise money for

the ROBERT SCHEER election campaign.

1385

8

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRE

SF 100.46832

WEH: kah

II. COMMUNIST SUPPORT

SHARON GOLD and JUDY DUNLAP were members of the Fillmore

Du Bois Club of San Francisco who were working in the ROBERT

SCHEER campaign as of February 27, 1966.

SF T-5 on 3/3/66

A characterization of the Fillmore Du Bois

Club is contained in the appendix.

A social affair to benefit the SCHEER for Congress

campaign was held March 19, 1966, at the residence of ROSCOE

PROCTOR in Berkeley, California, with ROBERT and ANNE SCHEER

in attendance.

SF I-7 on 3/22/66

ROSCOE PROCTOR is a member of the National

Committee, CP, USA, and attended a meeting of

this body

held December 3-7, 1966, in New York

City, during which time he was also elected

a member of the National Executive Committee,

CP, USA.

SF T-8 on 12/9/66

A meeting of the Marin County Communist Party (CP)

Club was

neid March 23, 1966, at 315 Rydal Street, Mill Valley,

California.

At this meeting it was announced that CARL BLOICE

nad. been released from his job at the PW since he is acting as

publicity man for ROBERT SCHEER in the SCHEER for Congress

campaign.

SF 7-9 on 4/7/66

A meeting of the San Francisco Du Bois Club was held

March 28, 1966, at 1830 Fell Street, San Francisco, during which

it was announced that the Club would hold a mobilization April 2

to work on ROBERT SCHEER's campaign.

SF T-10 on 3/29/66

9

1386 SEGRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

A CP Youth Commission meeting was held March 29, 1966,

at 2504 Sacramento Street, San Francisco, during which there

was a discussion of youth

work.

It was stated that the work

of the youths in the ROBERT SCHEER campaign should have been

and should now be pointed towards building a Du Bois Club

in Oakland.

SF T-11 on 3/30/66

CARL BLOICE, a member of the San Francisco CP Youth

Club, is employed full time as a campaign worker for ROBERI SCHEER,

as of April 4, 1966.

'SF T-11 on 4/4/66

The PW issue of May 21, 1966, carried an editorial

issues of the time were "for peace,

rights, for a serious war on the grinding poverty that blights

the lives. of so many people in this District."

The editorial

then told that ROBERT SCHEER has joined all these issues in his

campaign to win the Democratic nomination for Congress.

It

concludes by urging the readers to vote for ending the war in

Vietnam, for seriously beginning the war on poverty, for

Negro representation, and for labor's rights.

ROBERT KAUFMAN, a member of the East Bay CP Industrial

Club, stated August 8, 1966, that he had served as labor

relations man for ROBERI SCHEER during SCHEER's campaign for

Congress from the 7th Congressional District of California.

SF T-12 on 8/19/66

CARL BLOICE gave a party on Christmas Eve, December 24,

1966, at the residence of ROBERI SCHEER, Milvia and

Oregon

Streets, Berkeley, California, which was attended by about

60

persons, including ROBERT and ANNE SCHEER.

SF T-13 on 1/6/67

Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) Meeting

May

242.

1966

The Bay Area YSA and SWIP sponsored an open meating which

was held May 24, 1966, at Stiles Hall, Bancroft and Dana Streets,

1387

10

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 11

---

## Page 12

ECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

Berkeley, California, to protest against the shooting of LEO

BERNARD at the Detroit SWP office.

ROBERT SCHEER was one of the

speakers at this meeting. During his speech SCHEER stated that

unity of the left is essential to protect its

members and

to bring

an end to the hysteria sweeping this country:

SF T-14. on 5/27/66

SF T-15 on 6/2/66

A characterization of the Bay Area YSA is

contained in the appendix.

Miscellaneous

A. Community for New Politics, also known as

Committee for New Politics

An advertisement appeared in the "Berkeley

Barb''

newspaper, Berkeley, California, issue of August 26, 1966,

concerning a meeting sponsored by the Community for

New Politics

to. be

at berkeley Community Theater at 7:30 p.m.,

August 26, 1966, with ROBERT SCHEER scheduled to talk

"California Politios

The meeting sponsored by the Community for New Politics

was held august 26, 1966, at the Berkeley Conmunity Theater,

berkeley, California,

with 600 to 700 people present.

ROBERT

SCHEER, who was described as the outstanding speaker of the

evening, devoted most of his speech to "wisecracks". about the

Democratic and Republican candidates for Governor of California.

SCHEER criticized Governor BROWN sèverely, claiming he was no

longer a true liberal, but was trying to outdo RONALD REAGAN.

In addition to the $1.50 admission charge, the audience was

asked to contribute generously to help, erase the deficit of

911, 000 incurred during the ROBERT SCHEER for Congress campaign.

SE I-15 on 9/6/66

A meeting of the Community for New Politics was held

at Le Conte School, Berkeley, California, September 21, 1966.

At this meeting there was a discussion as to what course this

group should follow backing candidates for Governor of California

in the general election to be held November, 1966, and what

11

1380 m

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 12

---

## Page 13

C

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

recommendations to make to the Conference on Power and Politics

which was to be held September 30 - October, 2, 1966, in

Los Angeles.. After discussion, it was decided to recommend no

support for

either the Republican or Democratic candidates for

Governor, but to support a write-in candidate.

SF T-7 on 9/23/66

"National Guardian" (NG) newspaper, issue of

October 15, 1966, carried a news article headlined, "Break with

Brown Hints

3rd - Party Move, a New Irend in California

Politics".

This article reported on the state-wide conference

on power and politics which was held at East Los Angeles College,

Los Angeles, California, on the weekend of September 30 -

October 2, 1966.

sessions brought together opponents of

the Vietnam war and those disillusioned with both major political

parties seeking unity.

The article stated the following

regarding the part played in the conference by ROBERT SCHEER:

"Robert Scheer, foreign editor of Ramparts magazine,

young, eloquent, whose near-win in the Oakland primary

was closely watched by the White House, posed the question

that was to lead

to the split.

How is it possible, he

asked, to be against the war

in Vietnan, to back the It.

Three, and the anti-war demonstrations -- while at

same time voting for Democratic GoV. Edmund G. Brown

for re-election?

"The kids who refuse to fight in

Vietnam,' he said, 'are the real heroes.' He warned

that

'we are close to

war in China and may be only

weeks away from fighting in North Vietnam,

and

called for 'structural change' in American society.

His was to prove the dominant voice al the conference."

The article continued by explaining that a serious

split developed over whether to support reither the Democratic

nor Republican candidates for Governor of California.

The

article said "among those who backed the

'lesser evil' proposal

when the standing vote was taken were left liberals, communists,

labor leaders, Democratic politicians."

Many in this group

left the conference because they would not support the Republican

candidate for Governor as a means of forcing Governor BROWN to

take a stand in opposition to the Vietnam war.

12

1389

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 13

---

## Page 14

C

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

The article continued by stating that on the final

day of the conference only about one-third of the participants

were in attendance.

This group elected

a 30 man steering

committee to organize a continuing organization with another

state-wide conference in the spring of 1967. ROBERT SCHEER waS

elected to this steering committee.

A characterization of the NE is contained

in the appendix.

The steering committee of the California Coordinating

street, San francisco, california, to try to outline the type.

Politics met October 8, 1966 at 55 Colton

of "new politics desired for this organization in the future.

Finances were also discussed and it was decided that in order

to preserve the image of the New Politics group, they should pay

off the loss incurred at the Conference on Power and Politics

held in

Los Angeles September 30 - October 2, 1966, amounting

to about $1

ROBERT SCHEER said he felt there

no problem ir raising money because he was able to raise

would be

$68,000 to finance his campaign for U. S. Congress.

SF T-16 on 10/11/66

A conference of the Campus Committee for New Politics

was held at Wheeler Auditorium, University of California (UC),

Berkeley, on October 15, 1966.

ROBERT SCHEER was one of the

panelists at this conference who discussed the perspectives

and direction of the anti-war movement.

SF I-17 on 10/24/66

A meeting of the Conmittee for New Politics (CNP) in

the First Congressional District was held at Santa Rosa Junior

College, Santa Rosa, California: January 7, 1967. ROBERT SCHEER

was present at this meeting and spoke indicating he felt that

the CNP still nad a vital role to play in State politics

and urged its continued existence.

SF T-9 on 1/9/67

13

1390 SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 14

---

## Page 15

C

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

A discussion of members of the CNP, the successor to

the SCHEER for Congress Committee, was held February 21, 1967

at Le Conte School, Berkeley, and it was decided to run a slate

of candidates for various Berkeley City offices in the municipal

election to be held during April, 1967.

The plan decided upon

was to promote a non-discriminatory policy in hiring and in low

income housing in order to promote socialism and "to show America

it can be done"

During- this meeting SCHEER reported he had recently

visited Europe where he had talked with BERTRAND RUSSELL and

representatives of the National Liberation Front (of North

Vietnam). He mentioned that BERTRAND RUSSELL was trying to

war crimes tribunal, possibly leading to agreeable

solutions to the conflict in Vietnam.

SCHEER said, in reference

to the representatives of the National Liberation Front, that

they were of one mind in their determination to rid themselves

of the yoke of colonialism once and for all.

SF T-17 on 2/23/67

A meeting of CP members was held February 27, 1967,

at 2126 Emerson Street, Berkeley, during which it was decided

that they would work for the election of HOWARD HARAWItz, who

was a CNP candidate for Berkeley City Council, just as they had

worked for the election of ROBERT SCHEER in the June, 1966

election.

SF T-7 on 3/3/67

HOWARD HARAWITZ attended a closed CP conference

on white chauvinisn and black power which was

held December 17, 1966, at 81 Clementina Street,

San Francisco, California.

SF T-7 on 12/19/66

The "Berkeley Daily Gazette" newspaper in its issue

of March 31, 1967, carried a news article explaining that the

Community for New

Politics is the

extension of the SCHEER for

Congress group, whose success has largely emanated from the

Vietnam Day Committee (VDC).

It is described

as a new coalition

of civil rights, peace and poverty groups.

1391

14

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 15

---

## Page 16

C

SECRET

SE 100-46832

WEH: kah

A characterization of the VDC is contained

in the appendix.

B.

_Discussion Unlimited, Inc:

1 meeting was held March 18, 1966, under sponsorshi!

I Discussion Unlimited (DU) at Hollywood High School auditorium,

This meeting

was on the topic

"Eyewitness Reports from Vietnam".

There

were three speakers at this meeting, each being an employee

introduction as Foreign Editor of Ramparts" magazine, as well

candidate for election to Congress from California.

In his

speech SCHEER described "Ramparts" as, "We are a muckraking

magazine.

We are non political.

We don't have a political

line, but we are outraged by the facts in Vietnam."

SE T-20 on. 4/1/66

SF T-21 in 3/66

SF T-22 on 4/8/66

SF T-23 on 3/25/66

The above meeting was advertised in the Pw issue of

March 12, 1966.

DU sponsored a meeting December 2, 1966, in the

auditorium of Los Angeles

Trade College, 700 block, Washington

Boulevard, Los Angeles, with from 1, 000 to 1,500 people in

attendance. The topic of the discussion was

"What will the New

Development on the Left Be?"

ROBERT SCHEER from "Ramparts"

magazine, EUGENE GENOVESE from Rutgers College in New Jersey,

and DOROTHY HEALEYfrom Southern California District CP were the

speakers. HEALEYspoke first, stating that the most important

things for the groups on the left to do today were to unite on

cornon grounds and to be critical on grounds where they cannot

as well as to give allegiance to the other 14 söcialist

countries in the world.

hope of the future.

ROBERT SCHEER attacked her bitterly, his

main contention being that he felt he could not even

a socialist because of all the crimes that are committed in

the name of socialism. He said he could not align himself

"15

1332

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRE

SF 100-46832

WEHI: kah

with other countries in the socialist world because of the

barbaric deeds committed by some of these countries.

He led a vicious attack against the Soviet Union,

against the STALIN era,

against the crimes that were committed

in the Soviet Union against Jewish people and Jewish culture,

and against other religious people and

intellectuals in the

Soviet Union.

He made reference to the two writers

who had

been

recently jailed in Russia.

In a rebuttal and question and

answer period the attack went back and forth,

mainly between

GENOVESE and HEALY against SCHEER for his anti-Soviet Union

position.

SCHEER constantly brought up

Hungary, stating that

the oppression that went on in Hungary is no different than the

oppression of the United States in Vietnam.

He also said the

Soviet Union is a sick society just as the U.S. is a sick

society, and he is quite sure that the workers in each society

are not much aware of or care about the relative difference of

e or care about the

the sickness.

SE T-18 on 12/9/66

SF T-19 on 12/13/66

The PW issue of December 10, 1966, and December 24,

1966, also carried news articles on the above-described forum.

SCHEER's remarks are reported in the December 10, 1966 issue

as follows:

"Scheer, who ran as a peace candidate in the

Democratic primary in the Seventh Congressional District,

winning nearly 45% of the vote, spoke of the kind of

revolution he would like to see.

'Revolution is better

than rebellion,' he said, 'but I an interested in

what a revolution will lead to....Soviet society is

vicious.... I want a revolution

that means the right

of a man to control his own lifa.'

Referring to Marxism, Scheer said, 'The theories

don't work.

The working class is not getting poorer

and poorer.

"'It is true,' he said, 'that the 'New Left'

has no ideology, (but because of that) it does not

16

1393

SECRET

NWV 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

follow that it should accept the old ones...Why is

there a New Left?

"The old Left was tired, cynical, frightened...

LSD is more important than (considered by the

'Old

Dream and said it pete create ve meet statementcan

Left')... The young

more profound than anything the Old Left has

ever

A characterization of DU is contained in

the appendix.

Speeches of the Subject

A protest rally for persons jailed as a result of

was

ROBERI SCHEER was one of the speakers and said that if Governor

BROWN had not freed these sit-in demonstrators by election day,

SCHEER would tell the people to march to the jail housing these

demonstrators, rather than going to the polls:

SF T-7 on 7/20/66

Observation by SA of

FBI

The August 6-9 Committee sponsored the Third Inter-

national Days of Protest, August 6-9, 1966, at San Francisco

Civic Center plaza, San Francisco.

This demonstration numbered

about 2,500 people on August 6, 1966. One of the speakers was

ROBERT SCHEER, who stated that the demonstrators should not get

discouraged, but should continue

their picketing and demonstrating.

Observation by SAs

FBI

SF T-7 On. 8/8/66

The "Stockton Record" newspaper, Stockton, California,

issue of September 8, 1966, carried a news article headlined,

17

1394 SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WER: kah

"Editor Attacks U. S. Policy in Vietnam; Sees National Peril".

In this article it was stated that ROBERT SCHEER had delivered

a speech at the Raymond College High Table, University of the

Pacific, Stockton, California, on September 7, 1966.

SCHEER

maintained that the concept of an international

communist

conspiracy was false and the U.S. is mistaken in considering

it a unified, ever-growing force that can only be contained by..

force.

He stated that the communist conspiracy is a

movement

that does not hold together because of nationalistic interests.

Fie cited the Sino-Soviet dispute and the international

squabbling between satellite countries and the major communist

He said the Vietnam conflict began as an internal

dispute

and if the U. S. withdrew from the conflict this

withdrawal would reaffirm the communists' confidence in the

possibility of peaceful co-existence."*

He concluded that if anyone is genuinely concerned

about American security, he is going to have to work to

reverse American foreign policy..

The Guardsman

, weekly

student newspaper at City

College of San Francisco,

in its issue of October 19, 1966,

carried a news article headlined,

"Scheer Lectures on Involvement

in Southeast Asia.

The article stated ROBERT SCHEER spoke at

the College

Theater to a capacity audience.

tie was reported

to have reviewed the historical changes in Vietnam, the French

role in Vietnam affairs, and the limited policy set by president

KENNEDY of only sending

30,000 advisors as "technical aid only

for a limited period of time to prevent a colonial posture"

article stated further,

summary conclusion SCHEER

said that if there is an international communist movement, it shoul

cease to exist, that there are hardly two communist countries

that coexist,

that communism is in truth a form of nationalism

and that practically speaking, 'it does not exist'."

"The Daily Cardinal", student newspaper of the

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, in its issue of

"Scheer Hits

as follows:

18

1395

SECRE;

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

1' Anti-Communism is what holds the American people

together, not the Judaeo-Christian ethic, '

radical

author Robert Scheer told 500 people in the Social

Science building Thursday.

"He argued that the United States is attempting

to impose on the Southeast Asian crisis the

'myth'

of a monolithic Communism and the policy of 'contain-

ment' that developed out of the post-world War II

Eastern European situation 20 years ago.

"He said that America has become so imbued

with the anti-Communist mythology? that it has become

the over-riding criteria for all, and especially

foreign policy decision-making.

"He cited the investigations of philosopher

Bertrand Russell's Vietnam

?War Crimes Tribunal'

which

bombo,turports to show American use of fragmentation

that are not effective militarily, bu: which

demoralize the population.

'And these bombs are

designed not so much to kill as to torture.'

"'What is frighteningly horrible about this whole

policy,' he said,

is that it works.

It succeeds

militarily even

where it fails politically.'

"He urged his listeners to 'support the Vietcong,

or National Liberation Front... given the fact that

they are the only ones

'intrusion' over there.'

"He said that it is not the North Vietnamese

who have shown "bad faith in efforts to negotiate,

¡but us.'

They have already offered concessions,"

he said, 'even though it is we who are bonbing them.'

"Russian and Chinese foreign policies, before

and after the death of Stalin, he said, 'have

been

essentially conservative, and not aggressive.' He

cited as evidence the Trotsky-Stalin conflict and

Mao Tse-tung's early differences

with the regular

Chinese Communist Party apparatus over this issue."

1396

19

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

A neeting was held at Hospitality House, Balboa

Park, California, March 16, 1967, to hear ROBERT SCHEER talk on

the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency). He was introduced as

Editor of "Ramparts"

magazine.

His only comments concerning

the CIA were that the CIA was the

"whipping boy" for high

officials of the U. S. Government. He indicated that if anything

went wrong with the policy of the high government officials,

they could always blame CIA for their failures.

In discussing the Vietnam war, SCHEER stated the

President of the U.S.,

along with other government officials,

guilty of murder of innocent women and children.

SCHEER

then spoke of a trip he had taken to France and Belgiu,

said he had talked to important officials in these countries

and gained the impression

that these officials were opposed

to the war policy of President JOHNSON, particularly the bombing

of North Vietnam.

SCHEER alleged that there were more bombs

dropped

in Vietnam than were dropped during World War II.

claimed that the reason the U. S. was using anti-personnel bombs

against

the people of North Vietnam was

because they did not

agree with the U. S. and the use of anti-personnel bombs was of a

punitive nature.

SCHEER took the position of an

independent criticizing

both the "Commie" and

"Bircher"

elements.

SF T-20 on 3/29/67

The "Yale Daily News"

• student newspaper of Yale

,carried an article relating that ROBERT SCHEER spoke at the Law

Santo 4g to 102.

University, New Haven, Connecticut, issue of April 5, 1967,

SCHEER described

the "New Politics

as à movement which seeks

to bring about a substantial change in American society.

D:

Spring Mobilization Comnittee Against

the war in Vietnam

ROBERT SCHEER spoke at the rally of the Spring

Mobilization Committee Against the War in Vietnam which was held

20

1397

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

April 15, 1967, at Kezar Stadium, San Francisco, California,

about 55,000 people in attendance.

SCHEER

General WESTMORELAND had stated that the Vietnamese people would

have to "bleed more" to learn they had met their match in this

SCHEER commented that despite

United States' "intervention"

in Vietnam, there would be "other Vietnams" as other rights

groups and countries had their own nationalist expressions.

SCHEER went on to say that "other people will make revolutions"

and, thus, the U. S. would have to go into other countries.

"If other people want communist revolutions, so be it" added

SCHEER. Other speakers at this rally urged immediate withdrawal

of U.S. troops from Vietnam.

SF T-25 on 4/17/67

Observation by SAs

of FBI

The mimeographed leaflet which announced the

Spring Mobilization described it at follows:

"The Spring Mobilization Committee to End the

War in Vietnam is composed of individuals from

many organizations who represent a wide variety

of views.

There is no

exclusion on political,

racial or religious grounds.

We invite peace,

civil rights,

labor, church, professional,

political, veterans,

farmers, youth and students,

'and other

groups and individuals all over the

country to support and actively participate in the

National Spring Mobilization.

We solicit the

closest cooperation. Organizations retain the

freedom to determine the extent and manner of their

activity. Those wishing to issue the call are

free to do so.. We do not wish to compete with or

replace on-going activities of existing anti-

war, peace and civil groups.

We seek to stimulate

increased activity everywhere."

February 26, 1967 issue of the "San Francisco

Examiner' newspaper carried an article captioned, "100,000 Due

for Anti-War Rally Here"

This article referred

to the demonstratio

in San Francisco to be held April 15, 1967, and related, among

other things, the following:

1398

21

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 22

---

## Page 23

C

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

*The important post of Executive Director for

the Spring Mobilization Committee to End the

war in

Vietnam was held by Kipp Dawson, identified in the

article as a "long-time functionary of the SWe, a

pro-Castro Trotskyite organization

Backing up

Kipp Dawson were Robert Himmel, an SWP organizer

recently sent out here from the East, and Asher farer,

local SWP chieftan who

headed up the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee".

The article called attention to one of

the sponsors for the mobilization, Professor Eli Katz,

"erstwhile Southern California CP functionary; who was

let out of the University of California and later

rehired".

In conclusion, the article referred to contributions made

to the Spring Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam,

which included a contribution of $100 from ALBERT "MICKIE" LIMA,

"Northern California Chairman of the CP, USA."

E. Berkeley VDC

In early December, 1965, representatives of the VDC

contacted Vice President HUBERT H. HUMPHREY and challenged President

JOHNSON or Vice President HUMPHREY to debate the U. S. Vietnam

policy with one of the VDC representatives.

The unnamed repre-

sentative was identified as ROBERT SCHEER.

SF T-17 on 1/31/66

A general membership meeting of the Berkeley VDC

was held January 19, 1966, at Hillel House, Bancroft and College

Avenues, Berkeley: Calliornia, to decide whether to officially

the campaign of ROBERT SCHEER for Congress in the 7th

Congressional District.

at this

meeting.

SF T-26 on 2/2/66

A party sponsored by the Berkeley VDC was held

February

5, 1966, at Finnish Hall, 1819 - 10th Street, Berkeley,

California, to raise money for the election of ROBERT SCHEER.

SCHEER was

present at this affair.

1399

SECRET

22

SF T-27 on 21. 8/66

SF T-7 on 2/8/66

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 23

---

## Page 24

C.

SECRET

SF 100-46832

WEH: kah

CARL BLOICE, a member of the San Francisco Community

CP Youth CluD, statec

February 6, 1966, that ROBERI SCHEER waS

at that time in Cambodia and that SCHEER had become somewhat

disenchanted with the Berkeley VDC.

BLOICE added that an

independent student committee on the University of California

campus at Berkeley and another committee would be the principal

groups supporting SCHEER's campaign for Congress rather than the

VDC In the tuture.

SF T-11 on 2/7/66

The Berkeley VDC sponsored an anniversary

rally May 21, 1966, at Lower Sproul Hall Plaza, University of

California, Berkeley, with ROBERT SCHEER in attendance.

During

this rally

SCHEER spoke and attacked all liberals, claiming

that liberals were the cause of recent attacks on the peace

movement. He pointed out that after

instructors at the University

of California attacked the VDC, the VDC office was bombed. After

the U. S. Attorney General attacked the Du Bois Club, the

Du Bois Club's National Headquarters in San Francisco was bombed..

Congressman JEFFREY COHELAN attacked the Congressional campaign

of ROBERT SCHEER and SCHEER's Grove Street office in Berkeley

now has bullet holes in the windows, according to ROBERI SCHEER.

SF T-7 on 5/23/66

SF T-28 on 5/23/66

23

1400 SECRET,

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET,

SF 100-41882

DISCUSSION UNLIMITED, INC.

Records of the Division of Corporations,

California

State Department of Investments, Los Angeles, Californias

indicate that Discussion Unlimited filed its

Articles of

Incorporation as a nonprofit corporation, with the

Secretary

of state: Sacramento, California, on or about June

: 4, 1963,

noting its principal site of office as Los Angeles County,

California.

The ains and purposes of the organization, as

listed in the Articles of Incorporation, are

•.ito promote

full and open discussion on sur

society and problems

A source advised on May 8, 1963, that Discussion

Unlimited, Inc. actually was originated in Los Angeles;

California, in Mays 1952, and was composed largely of a number

of present

and former Communist Party members who assist in

staging panel forums and in promoting such events.

Original

coordinator of the group was BERNARD LUSIER, who in 1951,

was educational director of the Southern California District

Communist Party.

has

not changed. If continues

to present "left ideas" to at

least partially non-committed audiences. It proposes to

develop special activities around various issues on an irregular

basis.

It is not a membership organization, and does not hold

regular meetings as such, but rather is strictly a forum-type

organization.

On May 10, 1966, another source reported that

Discussion Unlimitea, Inc. continues to operate as a forum-

type organization.

APPENDIX

1401 SECRET

24

N 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET

1

8F100-46833

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE,

, BAY AREA CHAPTER, also known

as Bay Area Fair

Play for Cuba

Committee (BAFPCC)

The "New York Times" newspaper on November 20, 1960

carried an article captioned "Pro-Castro Body Reports U.S.

Gain," which reported that the Fair Play for Cuba Committee

(FPCC) had 5,000 paid-up members in the United States..

The

article declared that the FPCC had headquarters.at 799. Broad-

way, New York City, New York,and had chapters-in other-cities,

including one in San Francisco.

A source advised in March, 196I, that the Bay Area

Chapter of the FPCC (BAFPCC) began to be formed in San Fran-

cisco in November, 1960, under the direct guidance and leader.

ship of ASHER HARER, who the source identified as a member

of the San Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party

(SWP) and a member of the National Committee of the SWP.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

This source advised in March, 1963, that in the

recent election of the BAFPCC the SWP continued its influence

by having SWP members elected

to. the executive. committee"

This source advised in May, 1963, that the BAFPCC

included members in San Francisco and surrounding counties....

He

advised that the BAFPCC has no headquarters but received

mail through Post Qffice Box 2615, San Francisca 26, California,

which is a box maintained by ASHER HARER. He stated that the

announced aims and purposes of the BAFPCC are to "spread the

truth about Cuba and to prevent U.S. intervention in Cuba.".

A second source advised on January 10, 1964, that

at a BAFPCC meeting in Berkeley, California, in December,

1963, it was decided to dissolve the BAEPCC.

APPENDIX

SECRET

1402

25

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

SF1 0

0 - 46832

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times"

newspaper contained a

full-page advertisement captioned

"What Is Really Happening in Cuba," placed by the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee (FPCC).

This advertisement announced

the formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the

FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth about revolutionary

Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11, 1961,

reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States

: Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961,

Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himseli

organizers of the FPCC.

He also testified he and TARER

obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied

toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the

first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle

influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the

past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership

to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the

FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United

States pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that

VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no

intention of

permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any

other organization.

that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic

relations between Cuba and the United States and should

support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution without

interference from other nations.

LEE did not advocate

supporting the Cuban revolution per se.

APPENDIX

1403

EGRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 27

---

## Page 28

C SECRET

SF10 0-46838

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE (cont'd.)

The November 23, 1963, edition of "The New York

Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of Connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the Castro network in the United States."

It is to be noted

that Senator DODD was

a member of the Senate

Internal

Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on the

FPCC :

The December 27, 1963, edition of "The New York

World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-Castro

FPCC was seeking

to go out of business and that its prime

activity during its lifetime had been sponsorsnip of pro-

Castro street rallies and mass picket lines, and the direction

of an active

propaganda mill highlighting illegal travel-to-

Cuba campaigns.

Its comparatively brief span of life was

attributed to mounting anti-Castro American public opinion,

the 1962 Congressional

hearings which disclosed FPCC financing

by Castro's United Nations Delegation, and ultimately, the

bad publicity which the FPCC received from disclosure of

activities on its behalf by suspected Presidential assassin

LEE H. OSWALD.

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned

second source advised that v.

T. LEE had recently remarked

that the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to

organize another similar organization.

On April 13, 1964, a third source advised that

there had not been any FPCC

activity in many months and that

the

FPCC had been dissolved.

SECRET

APPENDIX

1404

27

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECRET

8F 100 - 40836

1

INTERNATIONAL UNION OF STUDENTS

1..

"The World Federation of Democratic Youth

brought into being the International Union of Students, which

neld a meeting in Frague on August 11-31, 1946. 1he

administration

and direction of inis project was entrusted

to a 17-man

executive comnittee, of whom 12 were known

Communists.

li

Also cited as one of the "long-established

Soviet-controlled international organizations: which speak

identical lines of propaganda and stand

together on all phases

of Soviet

foreign policy and which has "affiliated organizations

in the United States, which consequently have also been turned

into instruments in the

'peace' canpaign."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, House

Report 271 on American Youth for Democracy,

April 17, 1947, p. 13; and House Report 378

on the Communist "Peace" Offensive, April 25,

1951, originally released April 1, 1951, p. 77.)

fronts ""'" functioning at the present time."

Cited as being among "international Communist

(Internal Security Subcomnittee of the Senate

Judiciary Committee, Handbook for Americans,

S. Doc. 117, April 23, 1956, P. 93, a1S0 p. 59.)

APPENDIX

SECRET

1405 28

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 29

---

## Page 30

ECRET

1

SE 100 - 40832

"NATIONAL GUARDIAN"

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications,

revised and published December 1, 1961,

prepared and released

by the Committee on Un-American

Activities, United States House

of Representatives,

contains the following

on Page 193 concerning

"National Guardian:"

1.

"established by the American Labor

Party in 1947 as

a 'progressive' weekly ***.

Although it denies having any

affiliation with the Communist Party, it has manifested itself

from the beginning as a virtual official propaganda arm of

Soviet Russia."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report,

Trial by Treason:

The National Committee to

Secure Justice for the

Rosenbergs and Morton

Sobell, August 25, 1956, P= 12.)

ECRE

_APPENDIX

1406. 29

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 30

---

## Page 31

CURE

817 1 00-46

832.

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

A source advised on August 1, 1960, that the San

Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) was

formed approximately in the early part of 1938 and the

Oakland Branch of the SWP was formed in the latter part of

1938.

A second source advised on October 26, 1959, that

the name of the Oakland Branch of the SWP was changed

to the

Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the SWP.

A third source advised on April 22, 1966, that the

San Francisco Branch and the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the

SWP follow the policies and directives of the National SWP

with which they are affiliated.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

140%

30

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 31

---

## Page 32

SLUNET

1

SF100-46832

VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE (VDC)

A

source advised in May, 1965, that the VDC was founded in

May, 1965, to organize the May 21-22, 1965, community "teach-in on

the University of California, Berkeley, California (UCB) campus.

Public literature distributed by the VDC reveals that the

purpose of the VDC is to mold public opinion to force withdrawal of

the United States from Vietnam, and to utilize dramatic, large-scale

demonstrations in increasing public alarm about the Vietnam war.

A second, source advised on June 24, 1966, that at a meeting

of the San Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) in

San Francisco, California, on June 22, 1966, KIPP DAWSON, whom source

identified as a member of the Branch, commented, among other things,

that with our help" the VDC was finally recognized as a political

power and was under "our control."

The SWP has been designated by the

Attorney General of the United States

pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

During the period from August 18, 1966 to October 7, 1966, the

VDC was publicly announced as having

been expelled from the UCB

as

a recognized on-campus organization.

A third source advised on September 29, 1966, that PETE CAMEJO

was

the chief spokesman for the VDC in its attempts for reinstate-

ment as a recognized UCB on-campus organization.

Following the re-

instatement of the VDC in October, 1966, CAMEJO decided to disband

the Campus Chapter of the United Committee Against war (UCAW), which

he had organized to replace the VDC on the UCB campus when it

was

expelled.

The UCA Chapter was disbanded and the VDC subsequently

became an "affiliate' of UCAW.

he third source further advised that as of September 29, 1966,

the VDC was controlled and dominated by PETE CAMEJO.

Source added

that the VDC is no longer under the control of the old stalwarts of

the original VDC and there is no continuity between the original and

current

VDC.

A fourth source on October 27, 1966, identified

PETE CAMEJO as a current member of the SWP.

The fourth and a fifth

source in September and

October, 1966, identified UCAW as an organization

in the San Francisco and East. Bay areas whose

activities were directed

toward protesting United

States foreign policy in Vietnam, and is controlled

and

dominated by the SWP and the Young Socialist

Alliance (YSA.

1408

APPENDIX

3 1

SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SECRET

S100-40833

W. E. B. DU BOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA (DCA)

A source has advised that on October 26-27, 1963,

a conference of members of the Communist Party (CP), including

national functionaries, met in Chicago, Illinois, for the purpose

of setting in motion forces for the establishment of a new

national Marxist-oriented youth organization which would hunt for

the most peaceful transition to socialism.

The delegates were

told that it would be

reasonable to assume that the young

socialists attracted into this new organization would eventually

pass into the CP itself.

A second source has advised that the founding convention

or the new youth organization was held from June 19-21, 1964, at

150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California, at which time

the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs of America (DCA) was

adopted. Approx-

imately 500 delegates from throughout the United States attended

this convention.

The aims of this organization, as set forth in

the preamble to the constitution, are:

"It is our belief that

this

nation can best solve its problems in an atmosphere of peaceful

coexistence, complete disarmament and true freedom for all peoples

of the world, and that these solutions will be reached

mainly

through the united efforts of all democratic elements in our

country, composed essentially of the working people allied in the

unity of Negroes and other minorities with whites.

We further fully

recognize that the greatest threat to American democracy comes

from the racist and right wing forces in coalition with the most

reactionary sections of the economic power structure, using the

tool of anti-Communism to divide and destroy the unified struggle

of the working people."

Over the Labor Day weekend, 1965, the DCA held a con-

ference in Chicago, Illinois, and a new slate of officers was

elected to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the DCA.

Since Labor Day, 1965, identities of those serving on the NEC has

varied; however,

according to a third source as of May, 1966,

thirteen of the

fifteen members of the NEC were members of the CP

in the San Francisco Bay area.

As of July, 1966, the headquarters of the DCA was

located at 180 North

Wacher Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

APPENDIX

1409

SECRET

32

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 33

---

## Page 34

SECRET

}

SE 100 - 46832

N. E. B. DUBOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA (DCA)

SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

A source has advised that as of April, 1966, the records

of the DCA reflect that the following Du Bois

Chapters in Northern California are affiliated with the parent

organization, the DCA:

1. Berkeley DuBois Club (BDBC), (Chartered)

2. Fillmore DuBois Club (FDBC) ; (Chartered)

3. San Francisco DuBois Club (SFDBC), (Chartered)

4. San Francisco State College DuBois Club

(SFSCDCB) , (Chartered)

5. San Jose DuBois Club (SJDBC), (Chartered)

6.

San Jose State College DuBois Club (SUSCDBC),

(Non-chartered)

7.

Stanford University DuBois Club (SUDBC),

(Non-chartered).

APPENDIX

1410 SECRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 34

---

## Page 35

0:

SEGRET

1

8F 1 0 0 - 46832

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE (known in

the San Francisco Bay area as the

Bay Area Young Socialist Alliance, aka.

the

Bay Area Committee of the Young

Socialist Alliance, Bay Area Committee

for the Young Socialist)

A source advised on May 16, 1960, that the Bay Area

Young Socialist Alliance (BAYSA) was formed in

February 1958,

as the bay Area Committee for the Young Socialist (BACYS). At

a later state in its development prior to adoption of the name

BAYSA, the organization

was known

as the Bay Area Committee of

the Young Socialist Alliance (RACYSA):

The source advised that as a result of a national

convention held April 15-17, 1960, at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,

the BAYSA became a branch of the national organization to be

known as the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) and will carry out

in the Northern California area the policies of the YSA.

A second source advised April 28, 1966, that the

BAYSA is currently active and is composed of three locals:

The San Francisco YSA, the Berkeley YSA, and the San Jose YSA.

The first source advised on April 28, 1966, that the

BAYSA, although ostensibly an independent organization, is

in reality controlled by the San Francisco Branch, Socialist

Workers Party (SWP) and the Oakland Branch SWP.

The SWP has been designated by the

Attorney General of the United States

pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

ECRET

1411

34

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 35

---

## Page 36

1

8E100-46888

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

stated that this organization was formed by the nation-wide

supporter clubs of the publication yS.

The above issue, page 6, set forth the Founding Declara-

tion of YSA.

This declaration stated that the YSA recognizes the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP) as the only existing political

of the YS have come

on the principles of revolutionary socialism.

A source advised on May 23, 1966, that the original YSA

was an organization formed during October,

1957, in New York City

by youth of various left socialist tendencies, particularly members

and followers of the SWP.

The leaders of this group were the

guiding forces in the establishment of the national organization.

The source further advised

on May 23, 1966, that the YSA

is dominated and controlled on a national basis by the SWP through

having SWP members comprise exclusively the National Executive

The YSA, in reality, is the youth and training

section of the SWP and the main source of new SWP members.

The headquarters of the YSA are located in Room 535,

41 Union Square West, New York City.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

1412

APP

ENDIX

35*

USA PSG

11511

NW 64954

Docld:34517446 Page 36

---

