# docid-32329589

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90086-10246

HQ

92-7824-51

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

CG

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/28/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 /44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

69262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32329589 Page 1

---

## Page 2

12/28/64

T AIRTEL

EK

Dies

TO

.: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-7824)

FRON

3 SAC, CHICAGO (02-350 Sub 1!

SUEJECT: JOSEPH STEIN

AR

"JUNE"

Ro Chicago airtel, 12/22/64.

The following intornation was furnishod by

CG 8788-C*:

' On 12/16/64, subject STEIl, in telephone call to

kir.

DIGniT DODS, Kaiser Building, lonticello, Illinots, not

ructhes idantified, refcried to hiusoll as "with the Bank

of M110s" and gave

the addross of the First Nutional

Mortgage Conpany as his downtorn offico..

STElY In contact

w1th Doss rogarding the collection of a Milos Bank note of

HAROLD LEVERS, not furthor idantified.

After conversation

and gavo orders as to the forwarding of

& lottor to DOSS regarding LeXERS' account.

On 12/10/64, an unidentified person from Bank of

Niles in telephone conversation vith STEIN indicated First

National Hortgage checks of STIlll's personal chocks were not

honored bacause of bani exaniners being present. Indication

was that the Bank of Niles usually honors ovor-drafts of the

PlIst National Hortgage and sIRIN.

Bureau (AH) (RLI)

Chicago

ACK/sms

{4)

Missi

Searched

Seri:liz: d

Fil-d_

1) 93-250 put / -41

NW-68262 Docld:32329589 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NF

CG 82-350 Bub 1

On 12/17/64, STEIN in conversation with LEONARD

STALLMAN, partner in First National Mortgage and stated

sole ownor of First National Hortgage In civil court action

beforo Judge MILLIA J. CAMPBELL,

U.S. District Court,

Northern District of Illinois, tells STALIAN he cannot

take as mich money out of the business as STEIN does.

STEIN makes it very clear he is in charge and could operate

#ThOUt STALLIAN Advised STALLAN they are in business

together but STALILAN is not to question STEIN in any

respect.

On 12/17/64, STEIN takes telephone call for PaIL

ALDERISIO, proninent Chicago hoodlun, and advises ALDERISIO

18 out of

tomn.

STEIN later recoives call Iron ALDCRISIO

who advises he will be in the First National Mortgage office

the next day:

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

PCI of the Chicago Diviston, entered

vicinity oi source and

advised STEIN of hts association with

the Horld-Vide Mortgage Conpany and listed his qualifications

no would notily hin as to the decision

regarding

his employment.

STEIN rogarding Morld-wide by PCI|

It is noted that inleration turniBhed to

conforms to informa-

tos previously furnished the FBI.

On 12/21/64, PHIL ALDERISIO, STEIN and STALLIAN

engaged in a conversation regarding a proposed loan on a

building in which ALDELIBIO has an Interest.

ALDERISIO

accuses STEIN of stalling the loan and lying to him. Argument

engues and ALDmIStO contacts C& 6538-C-TE whose identity 18

snown to the Bureau and asks whether the building could be

lost.

CG 6588-C-TE apparently gives ALDERISIO an affirnative

answer.

It 1s noted that CG 6588-C-TE has. furnisued informa-

tion to the effect that ALDERISIO 1s seeking a 90-day loan on

the property of Grilfin Hardware which business and building

1s under his control. Griffin Hardware 18 having financial

difficulties and unless loan is secured, property could be

lost to foreclosure.

-2.

68262 Docld:32329589 Page 3

---

