Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10143
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261 Docld:32244085 Page 1


Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10143

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

TITLE

DATE : 03/01/78

PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS :

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION

RESNICK, GINA

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261 Docld:32244085 Page 2


oj ysonbou omy yA
2q jin puoves StL

asf

: : (nojog weseay 9}
aed : sunyeudis $,19N9 ss)

ona ot no nt we

nou

SLOBUNOD OF1SILUIO

| 20g
SPE
{Ee Gh as aul eerie :

Solel a)

|

|

!

|

|

|

!

|

|

|
See
:
Be

~~ E

[TTT isl isis

orierlettirborts js

O oz gas arcs!

O° st

QO ot
AvOdaLYD Z é -£/— ?
- DAVE VONNY ANBHANIOddY 30 FLV

VIA
SL6/ : : aif
* QUOORY SAVAT “IVNOSYAd : Gar cere eI
SSAMVINAS2UCIY JQ ISNOH *S'N 3940) WU

NYRI ZHL JO FO|s30 ‘MOINSHY

O O . oo

ie 68261 Docid:32244085 Page 3



(eS Docld:32244085 Page 4 : ae

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter (_}. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE( (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i ii on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Gina 1, Resnick dune 30, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action -
Act 5 (g](2)(D) O Appointment
O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
15 Termination (At close of business on effective dote)
Assassinations T Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant {includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or 1 Professional.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number,

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. :

Date.

{i appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking

‘(Type or print name ar

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget,-and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

1an, Committee on House

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code...

Copy for-Initiating Office or Committee

Malthe lial nated ite nN see antenna tn

me

east dt aa ant

’
i
r
4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM ;

(Please Use Typewriter = U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes ~

f " ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Z Effective Date ] |
1 i
Gina I. Resnick March 1, 1978 eae
K = Ree
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action . H
JFK AL (g) (2) (D) 1 Appointment :
30) Salary Adjustment :
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change 7
: 1 Termination (Ai close of business on effective date) f
a Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business___ ij
Spey Dore :
(If type of action.is-an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) 4
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* j
Document Clerk $84,000 : i

* If emoloyee is acivil service annuitant {includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the anivity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, © Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or L Professional.

2, W¥Special (Investigative staff of Standing-Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 25t)€ongress,

3. O Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) bow

Position Number. !f applicable, Level_______. Step.

| certify. thot this authorization is not in violation of 5 US.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of |
relatives. er A

Date. March 14 19 78

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and*the Joint Committees, must’
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

4
3

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

Copy for Initiating. Office or Committee

i 68261 Docid:32244085 Page 5


PAYROLL-AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter > - “U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES -: (any erasures, corrections, or changes

A i a in this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, 0.C.°20515 * "authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: : i -

I hereby authorize thé following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ae “Effective Date 5
Géna I. Resnick B/1/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D} D Appointment
- Employing Office or Committee ial Salary. Adjustment
Assassinations Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment-or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) -

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Document Clerk 12,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. FD Standing Committee: Staff—L] Clerical or [] Professional.
2. BC] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res, Age _:of 29M ongress

ide Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete:item below.)

Position Number.

|. certify that this. authorization is :not -in «violation
relatives.

‘Signature of Authorizing Offa
LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Oi

CHAIRMAN

-. All: appointments-and salary.adjustments-for-employees: under the: House: Classification. Act and for. Committee iem-.

» -ployees,.except those:.of-the.Committee.on Appropriations, the Committee. on.the> Budget, .and the Joint omeniiecs: must: 62

.be approved by the Committee on House-Administration:

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ; :
Office Code

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 Docld:32244085 Page 6 as ray



PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

! hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES-
Washington, D.C. 20515

». (Any erasures; corrections; or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

“Effective Date -

Gina I. Resnick

6/13/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Act 5 (g} (2) (D)

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

‘© Appointment
‘Di Salary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Bocument Clerk

$19,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

2. [% Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [ Joint Committee.

(if Employee of.an’ Officer of the’ House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

‘lv certify that. this authorization  isnotin violation of 5 U.S.G* 3110(b); prohibiting the employment

relatives.

All. appointments-and'salary adjustments 'for employees ‘under: the House: Classificotion-Act-and- for:

1. D Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or [J Professional.

f applicable, Level

+:, ployees;-except those of the Committee.on Appropriatiors;'the ‘Committee. on the Budget _ thezJoint. Gommittees;must
‘be approved. by the Committee.on House. Administration. . 5 ie

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 Docld:32244085 Page 7

|

i areC ee

\



JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (0)

MEMORANDUM

JUNE 6, 1977

TO: Louis Stokes
CHAIRMAN a

/} 1)
FROM: Tom Lambeth A te

Acting Staff Diréctor

RE: Gina Resnick, document clerk

Please be advised that Ms. a applicant for

a document clerk position, has been interviewed by

Mr. Gerald P. Hamilton, Deputy Chief Researcher,MLK,

Mr. Donovan L. Gay, Chief Researcher, and by Mr. Stephen
J. Fallis, Deputy Chief Counsel. All three have recommen-
ded that Ms. Resnick be hired in this capacity at

$10,000. per annum.

Ms. Resnick received her MLS from the University of
Michigan, December 1976, and served as Reference Assis-
tant with the University's document collection for their
Public’ Health Library. She also was employed with the
Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, and
while working with documents, she had the opportunity

to research and write published Congressional hearings
and reports concerning the Intelligence Community.

If it meets your approval, we would like to have Ms. Resnick
report to our Committee on Monday, June 13, 1977.

Thank you.

} NW 68261 Docld:32244085 Page 8


MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of ©
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

ZX 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

i 68261 Docid:32244085 Page 9

Lia O Los é
jgnature of Employee Date

