Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10449 the John iy
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Casett Nw
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 0

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 11

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements. All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that 1t outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10060-10449

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE
PAGES :

06/01/77
10

SUBJECTS
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
JACKSON, MARGO

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter {_) US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES”) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Margo BE. Jackson 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

C1 Appointment
0 Salary Adjustment

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Cl Title Change
301 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
: Assassinations C. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee 1s a civil service annuitant (includes U S House of Representatves), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office

(If Committee Employee. complete appropriate item below]
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or 0) Professional.
2. I Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res256__ of 5TA congress.

3. C1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization 1s not in violation of 5 U.S.C 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives

LOUIS STOKES

ype oF print name of Authoriting Official)

CHAIRMAN

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Jomt Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED-

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $.

TRevsed August 1,197)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee :

[e 68261 Docid:32239457 Page 3 ‘



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

[hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(OO US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE( )
Washington, D.C 20515

authorizing official )

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Margo E. Jackson

6/1/78

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be tnitialed by the

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

JFK Act 5 (9) (2)

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

1 Appointment

Salary Adjustment

0 Title Change

Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)

T Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date obove and ending

close of buses...) )
Specily Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

|—

$16,100

* If employee 1s a civil service annuitant {includes U S House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office,

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below}

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O1 Clerical or 1 Professional.

3. C1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number_________----_-. If applicable, Level.

| certify that this cuthorization 1s not in violation of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date__

All appointments and’salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code...

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee © ° + ~

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 4

evsed August 1, 1977)

|
\
|



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes 4

. ‘on this form must be initialed by the i
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official ) :

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

i
I hereby authorize the following payroll action: H
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) zi Effective Date
Margo E. Jacksan December 1, 1977 ree
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action : q
| ISSRREREEREBSEEUBTEETaneni | 4
JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D) O Appointment i
[eeeeeceesteseeeoceeasteag] Salary Adjustment :
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
HE 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) J
Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending 1
close of business. 1
5 Speci Baie
{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) j
i
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* j
i
Docunent Clerk $15,000 :
* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U S House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee é
plus the salary received from the employing office. 4
If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below) Bee
f
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. 7
Eth ngress. {
3. 01 Joint Committee. :
1
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) steed
Position Number________. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.
| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.SC~-:3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives raters ge
Becember 1 sont conacetaitittl :
Date_ i
| 5
3
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- 4 r
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must ie \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration ae 1
jieeieeat|
| APPROVED: Se ae eee!
House Administration 4

Office of Finance use only: (ID
Office Code.

[e 68261 Docid:32239457 Page 5 ~


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, DC 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action

OU. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

‘on this form must be initialed by the

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Margo E. Jackson 8/2/77
i Employee Social Security Number Type of Action ~
EK Act 5 1D CD Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Solory Adjustment

1] Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information )

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Document Clerk 12,005

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below )

1. [J Standing Committee Staff—[] Clerical or [7] Professional.

465 ___of 9!

2. [ Special or Select Committee Authority—H Res.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an.Officer of the House, complete item below )

Position Number_____________ If applicable, Level_ Step__

+ b certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives

Date____ Auqust 2 19_7

(Ggnoture of Authoring Offical)

ia Louls STOKES

‘Type or print name of Authoring Offical

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for;Committee em- *
-> ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on. the Budget, and.the.Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:.

Choirman, Committee

Office of Finance use only-
Office Code.

oe



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM -

{Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or.changes

on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, DC 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date ereteele
Margo E. dackson 6/1/77
Employee Social Security Number « ~ if : Type of Action
Employing Office or Committee : Salary Adjustment |
Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action 1s an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information }

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Document Clerk $10,000

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below}

1. D Standing Committee Staff—[_] Clerical or (_] Professional

2

&

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H Res

3. LJ Joint Committee.

{If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below) cae

Position Number. _.If applicable, Level__.____. Step,

| certify that this ;outhonzation 1s not in-.violation of 5. USC. 3110(b), prohibiting the “employment of.
relatives

: All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification-Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the.Committee on Appropriations, the sealer ‘on the’ Budget, and the Joint:Committees, must’
be approved by the Committee on House Administration © :

APPROVED.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

[Fe 68261 Docid:32239457 Page 7 ae 7


|

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of ©
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will ther become a part cf your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

wy I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

jnw 68261 Docid:32239457 Page 8

a



[FB 68261 Docid:32239457 Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth
FROM: Steve Fallis
DATE: May 25, 1977

RE: Employment of Margo Jackson and Budget Assistant

We have received approval to hire a staff
assistant for the Budget Office and Margo Jackson as
a document clerk for research. Please notify Donovan
re Jackson and get starting date. I believe she is

available immediately. Please see accompanying papers.

ae


MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Lambethy@_

FROM: Steve Fallis

DATE: May 23, 1977

RE: Employment of Margo Jackson otf
Research has interviewed and wishes to

hire Margo Jackson for the position of document

clerk. She is available immediately. I have

spoken to Ms. Jackson and find her suitable.

I have offered her a position for $10,000 per

year subject to approval by the Chairman. I

have attached her resume. Please notify me

when the Chairman approves her appointment.

Ne

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 10


Fy

1 ane
& Op eh tor

yy pe CALLED BY— YOU WERE VISITED BY—
OF « aaueane

PLEASE CALL ———> QRONENO. 3
WILL CALL AGAIN C's wartina to see you
( returnep your cALL ( Wishes AN APPOINTMENT

Hono,
RECEIVED BY i
FORM 63 "0 $1960~068—10—Cos41-1 289-280 ‘63-108
REVISED AUGUST 1 eee resonant

967
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11 6

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 11

516 70 |



ry

QF CALL,

if
MEMORANDUM ae > |
Tor

lan WERE CALLED BY—  (-] YOU WERE VISITED BY—

Maeqo Vack son

‘OF Organization)

( Ptease cat. ——> ESSNE NP

CO Witt CALL AGAIN 1 Is wartine To see you
o RETURNED YOUR CALL oO WISHES AN APPOINTMENT
‘WESSAGE

Bole ASA

‘STANT 1960~o48—16—8091 982-880
Sea aoe nia
Sa Fun (at GFR) T01-17%6

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 12



RESUME ROUTING FORM

Received Y/ 2 aA 7 ?

Congressional
Referral

i

| Saeksod |
| Yo Chet beg. |

Logged by

Ss Self Other

Comments on Referral

Abstracted by [

Acknowledged vy |

Staff Component
Review by

yiZe [ Date Wf W72
a | Date :

Recommended
Action:

REQUEST FOR
APPOINTMENT Interviewer

File [| Interview | Hold Refer

Suggested date
Suggested time

Confirmed Confirmed
date time by
ee FOR Date
ee Hold for CC‘ NON File
| [sxémucraoxs | | De raat jo,9° }
,

SPRAGUE a
INTERVIEW Suggested date

REQUEST By Suggested time

Confirmed Confirmed
date time by

T 7
NOTIFICATION } by

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 13

‘cal Acceptance/Date of employment

Cc Rejection

ee



MEMORANDUM

May 26, 1977

TO: Tom Howarth

Budget Officer
FROM: Donovan L. G

Chief Researche' a
RE: Margo Jackson

Please be advised that pursuant to the
approval by Chairman Stokes, Ms. Margo Jackson
is to join the Research/Document Unit as a
Document Clerk on June 1, 1977.

She shall report directly to me.

Thank you.

mep

NW 68261 Docld:32239457 Page 14

