JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: 6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90101-10073
992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-4194-3
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
DATE: 08/22/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/29/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE.
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32332332 Page 1


OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10,
MAY 1902 EDITION Z
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

: ma
UNITED STATES GO\V,,<NMENT {)

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO

pate: 8/22/63

ERI SAC, MIAMI (92-463) (@)

SUBJEC

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, aka
AR

NS

The following information regarding JOSEPH
MEROLA was furnished to SA FRANK J, SMITH on 8/14 and 17/6
by CHARLES F, TAYLOR, SR., PCI (Protect identity).

JOSEPH MEROLA, representing himself to be -

| aQ associated with Bon Ami Incorporated, contracted with
i Joseph Taylor Marine, 1271 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami,
Zz to repair two motor boats, a 25 foot Chris Craft pleasure
<x Qa cabin cruiser, and an 18 foot Chris Craft speed boat.
Ee Lo MEROLA said that when these two boats were completed he
= rm nad two other boats which he might bring in for repair.
bass a q MEROLA also mentioned that he wanted to purchase four
E stationary diesel engines. He mentioned that Bon Ami

= 4 } Incorporated owned an island off Key Largo and said
QO _j Paks hat the engines would be used in connection with a plant
re is to getierate electric power for the island. TAYLOR was
<men & unable to supply the engines or tell MEROLA where the
=_> N éould..be purchased. MEROLA also told TAYLOR that the Bis
ots Geaplane Base eee’ oar ay ee ee tama tbc

= qWas répairing a seaplane for him. MEROLA pointed out the\
& = Seaplane and TAYLOR observed the number on th ‘plané to bé
la to @N6251K, MEROLA agreed to pay for the repair.'work sas ates
7) Of Fe “Was being done. TAYLOR presented MEROLA with a bill for
ut = approximately $12009. MEROLA said that he difa not¢have the
=o = © “money as his principal had not given him the check for the

repairs.

TAYLOR said he learned that a Mr. WEESNER, who:
resided at. 9632 Northeast 5th Avenue Road, Miami Shores
and who had an office in New York with telephone number

Ade Bureavg yi:
g Vee 92- 479 )MEROLA),
‘ 2 - 105-65978) :

Lt 5. eons 246 i a a
To51083) He B5 . ar are =\
G2SEP, G19R * EBS). O03 te Me z6 ree"):

eth, i

A

F

010408 ween

7,

rie Bt

UNRECORDED CO)

| NW 64578 Docld:32332332 Page 2


ey
Cy

MM 92-463

EL 1-5757;3 was in some way connected with Bon Ami.

TAYLOR, on 8/13/63, telephonically contacted Mr. WEESNER
at the New York number. He was advised that JOSEPH MEROLA
had been given the money to pay TAYLOR for the repairs on
the two boats. WEESNER said that he would contact MEROLA
and would then within a week contact TAYLOR and assure
him that he would be paid for his work.

on 8/16/63, MEROLA came to the Charles Taylor
Marine and told Mr. TAYLOR that Mr. WEESNER had told him
of TAYLOR's call. MEROLA was disturbed because TAYLOR
had contacted WEESNER to get his money.

A check of the Miami indices revealed WEESNER
to be ROSCOE PAUL WEESNER, one of the subjects of a
Registration Act - Haiti investigation (Bureau file
105-65978), (Miami file 105-1633). A review of this
file revealed that WILLIAM KENNEY, Departmental Attorney,
Miami, advised on 2/18/63 that he had received information
from JOSEPH MEROLA that PAUL WEISSNER (PH), since identified
as ROSCOE PAUL WEESNER, had approached MEROLA and solicited
his assistance in a plan to overthrow the government of
Haiti.

The above information concerning MEROLA'S
activities has been submitted to the Bureau for the express
purpose of incorporating this information in MEROLA's file
containing the investigation of his anti-racketeering
activities.

| NW 64578 Docld:32332332 Page 3

