JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10338-10023
RECORD SERIES: KC
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — ELSUR 92-16-1471
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: KC
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 03/16/1962
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 11/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32314913 Page 1


Bek.

&

2

PLAIN

Os DIRETHON, FEL (O2-0628)
PSO: GAS, KANSAS CETY (62-859) <P-

Ro: CRIMIVAL INTELLIGENCE PRCGRAT
BANSSS CYTY DYVEISICHE

WEREEY SUUEARY
ReBulet to HC DeTaS2.

Rebulot requested that voekly sumunrico be submitted
by thio office and wore to include 4afermatica rocoivod fren
highly confidential sources.

fa rolation to NICHOLAS CIVBLEA, Bueile 98-2761,
RE Of-116, ald portinoat favermation haa beon furmiched te
the Ouroau in triewoshiy Airtels; heveyer, 1¢ is to be noted
shat Lecal gambling and fnceme tax charges proviously dis-
wigsed agelact CIVELLA Rave been reinstituted by the Jackson
Couuty Presccutor’s offices. These reimatituted charges are
yeing attacked by motdona filed by CIVELLA'S attorney.

PCI SUIBLEY AVN MERINGOLA advises that ANTHONY

PTRCHAS CIVELLA was im Las Voges, Nevada, from A-23-62 te
BeRG—02, BOT stated further that mexzera of the “Claquo” are
gambling on Wednesday alghte in a voom at the Park Bast Hotel.
Purther, sho gal@ tho “Clique” is eware that the FSI wiil
O26aa curvoil thea when they go om trips by sir trancportaties
and, fow that reasen, thoy eftea travel by ear and piek up 5
Plight im another tem im aa attongt to prevent a survedlianco.

sasiotent Diroeter Al BELMONT addrsoned all Agoats
of tho Eansog Caty efSico om 3-15-62 rogarciag tho Criminal
Eatodligcacc Prograa.

= Bupeaea (682-83) Cali)
io Bomgas Clty (8 ~ 92-680)
Baer)

© O48,
Cvls BEB

@y

Be

oe

G2-1/6 —1(47/

NW 68262 Docld:32314913 Page 2
