J

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10217-10114
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-6054-153
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: WALLS, FRANKLIN J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE
DATE: 01/11/1963
‘PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
CRIMINAL COMMISSION, MICHAELS, JAMES ANTHONY SR.,
ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, SAINT LOUIS, MO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE ee
:
COMMENTS :

v9

NW 68262 Docld:32296338 Page 1


“FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN | DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

ST, LOUIS NEW YORK 1/11/63 TLi7/62_- 1/9/63

TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY
oO FRANKLIN J. WALLS gmr
THE CRIMINAL "COMMISSION," CHARACTER OF CASE et

ET AL., ST. LOUIS. DIVISION :

AR - CONSPIRACY

EX KOPE DEK
REFERENCE: Report SA JAMES P. FLYNN, 6/29/62, New York;
i Report SA FRANKLIN J. WALLS, 7/31/62, St. Louis;
New York airtel to Bureau dated 11/13/62; and
A St. Louis airtel to New York dated 12/19/62.

-P-
ENCLOSURES :
TO BUREAU (2)

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum oN
characterizing informants. Lys

TO NEW YORK (1) fa

One copy of letterhead memorandum characterizing
informants.

LEADS: ’

NT
APPROVED SPECIAL AGES DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

72 Zos¢i ko | wee

———————

L4oiser a

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau (92-6054) (

2- se York (92-2344) (ENC. -
a

2 - St. Louis (92-774)

: 7 Coxate
Q 7. fy ! copres DESTROYED

10 MAR 291

PROPERTY OF FEI—This report is loaned to-you by the FBI,-and noither it nor its contonts are to be distributed outside the agency lo which loaned.

SCTTSER - FEU. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958—~O—s62700

NW 68262 Docld:32296338 Page 2


SL 92-774
ST, LOUIS

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, Will continue through in-
formants, sources, and logical investigation to attempt to
develop additional information regarding this matter.

INFORMANTS :
IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS DATE LOCATION
INFORMATION
FURNISHED
SL T-1 is PCI JOSEPH MARINO 1/17/62 SL 137-9590
SLT-2 is SL1216-c  ~ 1/9/63 SL 137-412
ADMINISTRATIVE :

St. Louis Office currently has under investigation
two top national hoodlums, namely, JAMES ANTHONY MICHAELS,
SR., aka, and JOHN JOSEPH VITALE, aka, in addition to other
allied investigations pertinent to the criminal intelligence
program.

At the present time the St. Louis Office has two
highly confidential sources and five criminal, informants pro-
viding information regarding VITALE; one highly confidential
source and four criminal informants providing information
regarding MICHAELS; and one highly confidential source pro-
viding information pertinent to the criminal intelligence
program.

- BY -
COVER - PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32296338 Page 3

