ennedy Assassination
ofS jecords Collection Act of
I 992 (44 USC 2107 Note},

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10344
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

1 December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 8

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| NW 68261
Docld:32243310 Page 1



AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :

ny
ap kes ©

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

HSCA
180-10068-10344

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER =:

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
FACTER, JEFFREY

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box #:1.

NW 68261
Docld:32243310 Page 2

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

HSCA

12/30/76
10

PRINTED FORM
U

3

P

07/07/93

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date:08/20/93


Cc ate iS

FACTER, Jeffrey). ie : OFFICE OF THE CLERK
Kame of Ematoyee : ; U.S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:
eg : . PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD .
: 097 E
Soeeereeres eae ea AgdreRe ae : z : . YEAR
a bare OF arrowrMeNT | “"Sxrecon :

/a-3e- 7 wg '

Position Title
‘ PRIOR FEGERAL SCAVICE 15-9

DAY_OF MONTH
Wepre] 18 Ae] WTP is] v9

= 0.5 day annual leave ae CERTIFIE!
== 10 day annual leave

= 05 day sick leave

== 1,0 day sick leave Employeo's Signatura Dutc
: (if employee refuses 10 slgn, state reason Eclow.}
= 0.5 day administrative leave :

0.5 doy unauthorized absenco

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1,0 day leave without pay

Tevel Step oO ris howre

= 1.0 doy administrative leave : : Approved:

AVAILASLE,

ED
v THIS MONTH

Annual
Leave

D CORRECT:

Annual
Leave

Chief's: Signatura

SA RTT

Clerk of the House

: This record. will be {crwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of cach calendar year, or in case of termination, along
= 10 day unauthorized absence _ 2 Bate with the request for termination, Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employec’s o

CALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAI

:

DALANSE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH

Anaual Sick
Leave

jal personne! folder,

coer



Stgnatpapfot

W 68261 ee
locid:32243310 Page 4 i

© O

MEMORANDUM

STO: All Staff Employees
‘FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current’
‘Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

fother nephew brother-in-law |
mother niece sister-in-law |
son husband stepfather |
* daughter wife stepmother al
brother . father-in-law F stepbrother | 3 |
sister mother-in-law stepsister |
uncle son-in-law half-brother ie
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |
first cousin |

All staff employees are requested to complete this

‘focm and return it to the Budget officer.

“Approved

Richard A. Sprague

I-am not related Ko

‘Ivam related by the following relationship

(

A



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
» (Please Use Typewriter> U.S--HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) » Washington, D.C. 20515 authoring offloads nse by the

“To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee ‘Name (First-Middle-Last) = Effective Date —- \
) Jeffrey Facte April 1. 1978 \
| Employee Social Security Number Type of Action |

O Appointment

O Solary Adjustment

|

| mploying Office or Committee/Subcommittee : Title Change © \
|: 3X Termination (At close of business on effective date)

| = C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending wf

| Assassinatéons close of business. )

Specly Dove

(If type of action is an. Appointment; Salary Adjustment, or Title Change; complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

*lf emoloyee is a civil service annuitant{includes:U.S. House’of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the anrivity received by the employee’
plus the solary received from the employing office,

{If Committee Employee; complete appropriate item below.)

1.0 ae Committee: Staff—O) Clerical:or 1) Professional. }

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an ‘Officer of the House; complete item below.) ; a

Position Number______ If applicable, Level____22_.. Step. 4

! certify: that.-this authorization is not: in violation of 5 °U.S.C. 3140(b), prohibiting ‘the employment of © =4
relatives.

Dote._Aprti i 19_78

WSigroture of Authorizing Official)

“SF iauts STOKES

| : 4 cuatbnn

All appointments and salary adjustments.for employees under the House ‘Classification Act and-for Committee 'e:
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and ne Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

|
Office Code. Benefits...
| Monthly Annuity $00 as of Payroll

IW 68261 TT -
Docld:32243310 Page 5 : os

i
i
H
H


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter «. U.S. HOUSE OF. REPRESENTATIVES » ~ (Any.erasures, corrections, or changes

i f is f t be initialed by th
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorieing effi) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date .
fray Faster December 1, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

(a O Appointment
3A Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee CO Title Change
Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)
‘Assassinations CO Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business___ 4)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Staff. Counsel $27,800

J Wenobyee Be
plus the salary rect

invitant (includes U.S. House. of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
e employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. Cl Standing Committee: Staff—O. Clerical or 0 Professional.
2.. EXSpecial (Investigative staff of Standing- Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465 of 852 congress.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee. of an ‘Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify. that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C 3110(-prohibiting the employment’ of
relatives.

Date

. All appointments and salary adjustments for employees. under-the House Classification Act and-for Committee em-
.Ployeés, except those of the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the. Joint-Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

ACERO Eanes ene Sener _
eb Choirman, Committee on House Administration
Office of Finance use only: P ID
Office Code..-_._-___.. [Berne fii ea
Payroll

(Revived: August 1, 1977)

i
W 68261

a RET CE ORDO Sa MEE TERETE EL ERSTE TCT SPITS ERT RE W SINT IOS NYE AI MEO NTT AOE ORTY TSO EN CD ATE EN TER

locid:32243310 Page 6

_—



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM -- -

- +:(Please-Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: © ‘~~(Any erasures, corrections, or:changes. ~

or Ballpoint:Pen) © = © Washington, D.C: 20515 i a me ra -initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) z . Effective Date a
i 7
Jeffrey Factgr 8/1/77 \
| _ . . x \
Employee Social'Security Number 5 . Type of Action i

(2 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee (ySolary Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

“. (IF type of action-is.an Appointment‘or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| - Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel 26,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item:below.):

| 1. J Standing Committee: Staff-[J Clerical or [] Professional...» “ fy

Special or Select Committee: Authority=HaRes..465

2.

ed

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of anv Officer of the House, complete item below.) wee

Position Number. If applicable, Level... 0+22.. Step__.___.

|-certify: that.. this. .authorization * is. not in. violation “of 5°.
relatives.

'3110(b),: prohibiting the “employment. of

Date

‘Signature of Auth

QUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAT REAR

All.appointments and salary adjustments:for employees’ under: the. House’ Classification Act-and for Committeeém-
Ployees,.except-those:ofvthe Committee én ‘Appropriations, the-Committee ‘on' the Budgeting: the “Joint*Committeds, must”
|. < --be approved’by:the Committee on House Administration: 93 o's 'e = ’ .

|. . . APPROVED:...

Office of Finance use only:
_, Office Code.

siahatian Sida acai ales Bt Es net a cates ie a ld AE Ui Ea tiih ia alec iat ibe Salat e Miata El cost Sebald nad adits

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

W 68261 TT nn ne ace '
locid:32243310 Page 7 I Oe ;



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Please Use. Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

:-(Any. erasures; corrections, or changes
‘on this form must be initialed by. the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name -(First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date.

deffrey Facter

5/9/77

/

“Employee Social Security Number

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

° Type of Action

(1 Appointment

&) Solary Adjustment

C Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type. of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$25,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

(If Employee of an:Officer-of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

2. [& Special or Select Committee: Authority—H..Res.

3. [J Joint Committee.

relatives.

if applicable, Level

() Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or {J Professional.

|. certify., that this authorization...is not: in. violation: of..5° U.S.C, 3110(b), prohibiting the employment -of

ignoture of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

{Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman _

-All-appointments: and:salary:adjustments for-employees under the: House..Classificatior

ployees, except. those .of the-Committeecon Appropriations; the: Committee on-the:Budgét-and the ‘Joint: Gommittees) must

.be-approved by the.Committee on.House Administration.»

APPROVED:

fhe 6 i a

Office of. Finance use only:
Office Code.

]

NW 68261
locid:32243310 Page 8

ian thats elubaaaial ain Aba Sian hacia cs adda ed a aa

siesineduaca Litas



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

.. (Please Use Typewriter
-or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: «
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any. erasures; corrections; or-changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee.Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date.

Jeffrey. Facter 4/77

Employee Social.Security Number

Type of Action

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Cielary Adjustment

Assassinations

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$47,500

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. D0 Standing Committee: Staff -

Clerical or [7] Professional.

2.3

3. [ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__.- 3 If applicable, Level

l. certify that this authorization: is not’ in. violation: of
relatives.

-All.appo

ployees,.except those ofthe Committee on Appropriations, the Cor
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. z

APPROVED:

Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465.__.of_95tcongress,

ments and.salary adjustments for employees under. the House ‘Classification: Act-arid for. ‘Committee em
mmittee’on the Budget, and the-Joint-Comimittees, must > *

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office.or-Committee

W 68261
ocid:32243310 Page 9



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM ~ : - : -
(PleaseUse Typewriters": % U.S. HOUSE-OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections, or-changes

fl ff on this form must be. initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D-C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the-House of Representatives:

| hereby-authorize the following payroll action: : ,
~Employee-Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Jeffrey Facter L 2-41-77
Employee Social Security Number. efter ss Type of Action
CO Appointment
Employing Office or Committee (@) Salary Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or:Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title __ Gross Annual Salary
$15,375.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. C1 Standing Committee: Staff-[J Clerical of [J Professional.
2. [f Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. _28_congress.
3. [1] Joint Committee.
(If Employee of on Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number___ 22): IL applicable, Level. 2.» Step2-____.:

|. certify that: this .authorization.sis’ not in. violation: of 5. U.S.C..3110{b), ‘prohibiting.:the employment: of
relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official

_ Henry B. Gonzalez

\
Hi aa
Pk TType or print name of Authorizing Official)

} Chairman
I!
| All-appointments. and: salary adjustments-foremployee's.under the House Classification Act and. for Gornmittee-ém?
| ployees, except those of ‘the:Committee-on. Appropriations; the*Committee on’ the Budget, andthe Joint” Conitritees, must:
| be approved: by. the.Committee: on House Administration. art .

APPROVED: 882 _
in House Administration
Office of Finance use only:
Il Office Code
Monthly Annuity $__.-____.-00
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

‘aa mer cvrrepentimerettie se a a ee ns oo — a

NW 68261 an - —
I} bocld:32243310 Page 10 :



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. ; c -

{
1
a j

\ ~ (Please Use Typewriter - i US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES \. i o) (Any erasures, corrections, changes
i or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on, this fore aust be initio by the
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: . . 57 ; “|

| , :
| hereby authorize the following payroll action: ~

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). .
' Jeffrey Facter

Effective Date \

V3hT7

L Employee Social Security Number “ Type of Action E \

- |
CO Appointment | |

Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment - ey

|

Select Comittee on Assaésinatians Li Termination (At close of business on effective date)

| .

| = |
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information). - , / |

Position Title ‘ | Gross Annual Salary ~ |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate-item below.)

g 1. (Standing Committee: Staff—[1] Clerical or] Professional. is
a]
| 2.) Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. ‘Res.___4! |
3. E] Joint Committee. : : 5
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) - oe
| ° ,
| Position Number___ If applicable, Level_______. Step_______:
certify that this authorization:-is not -in. violation: of 5 .U: .5.C. 311016), prohibiting. the employment of
"relatives. Z
1
i Type or print name of Aahariing Ofiod e
I 7 5 . ivman,
i : .
All appointments. anid salary adjustments foremployees, under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- |
ployees, except those of the-Committee on Appropriations, the-Committee-on the Budget, and the Joint-Committees, must 7 1
| be approved by the Committee on House Administration. :

APPROVED:

a ~ NX
Office of Finance use only: _ : ‘
Office Code® :

"Tew 63261 a oo pe oe a
| Docld:32243310 Page 11 .



* PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM 7

. (Please Use Typewriter

e or. Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk. of the House of Representatives:

Lhereby authorize the following payroll action:

Cus. HOUSE ‘OF REPRESENTATIVES Se
Washington,-D:C: 20515: oe

ox

. (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

“fon this form must be initialed by the
ves “authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)”

Effective Date

Jeffrey Factay

| Becember 30, 1976

‘/ Employee Social Security Number

t . Type of Action

3] Appointment

~Employing Office or Committee

O Salary Adjustment 5

ttee on Assassinations

“Select Conmi

Z Termination (At-close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustmeit, complete the following information.)

D . } Position Title “332.<Gross Annual Salary
Staff Counsei-Legal Unit $25,090 ,
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) L <

1.0
2

Professional.

Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical of

Special or Select.Committee: Authority=H. Res.3
1

3. [] Joint Committee. ~ p -

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

t certify that this authorization is not in. violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b),. prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Becember 15.

All appointments ‘and salary adjustments for employees under :the House Classific

(Type or print nome of Authorizing O}

Select Comal tte on Assass

itle— If Member, District and State)

ployees, except those-of the Committee on: Appropriations,the Committeeon the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

< APPROVED: 2.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $_.

| Nw 68261

Docld:32243310 Page 12

