# docid-34517496

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date

Page

:

09/02/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10014-10115

RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:AA851401WJ

PAGES

15-19

--—

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO :

TITLE : INFORMATION REPORT

DATE

:04/14/66

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS : CHARLES, CLEMARD J

UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/15/98

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA FOR RELEASABILITY

COMMENTS : DOCUMENTS DECLARED "NOT BELIEVED RELEVANT"

BY THE

CIA

AND AGREED TO BY THE ARRB, PER

MEMO DTD 14 AUG 98.

NW 64954 Docld:34517496 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

64954 Date: 11-14-2022

MING OR MATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meanir.g of the Espionage Lows, Title

U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

G-FARTE

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Balti

ClérEd Josepa Charles Believed to be

DATE DISTR.

President Duvaller'& PerEOnal

Financial lansgar/Blographical

Data co C J Charles

• NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00-E0324106-340-436

I Apr: 665

5

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Feb - liar 66

Port-su-Prince/FeD - MTs GREVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

Us national; sales representatime of a us tobacco nantacting company

tho has had 40 years' experience in the industry. Source malics frequent

business trips to latin America and recently returned fron & six veels!

visit to Ecuador, Panams, and Haiti. He has excellent contacta in the

ereas he visits, speaks moderate Spanish and french, and in a shreve.

observer.

During the period 1952-59 I tried to establish business association

with certain laitians Including much characters as Eric Tippenbauer,

Coloncl M Prosper, senator Louis De Jole, George Loges, and many others.

On the occasion of my firet visit to Port-au-Prince in five years,

I encountered a new set of charncters, but they are obviously of the

Identical "cut" as my previous acquaintances.

2. A reportedly privately puned tobacco company known as Le Tabac Haltien,

S. A. 15 directed by Clénara Joseph Charles, a black Haltlan uho a200

happens to be Preaident of the Conneruial lanis of Haiti. This Clarette

mnufacturing firn is the direct descentent of the long defunct liaition-

American Tobacco Co.

Sone six months ago Le Iabac Haitien began ordering

moderate quantities of leaf tobacco and providing letters of credit to

pay for the 10zf.

When I hold uy first series of conferences wiü

No Charles, he immediately attempted to tupress me with hip political,

social, and econonic influence in Halti and then proceeded to elist

my principal's finsncial participation to the small sun of US$300 thou

Fully cognizant of the Haltion style of business, I deferred the

offer and proceeded to discreetly Inguire of Mir Chaxles' status In Falts.

3o

ds a matter of convenience la Charles provided me uith a curriculum

vItae shica I quote so t0ll01s:

CHARD JOSEPE CHARLESS President li General Manager of the

"BATIQUE COMERCIALE D'HAII!

PrESIdent Of thA CHAMBER OF CONNERCE OF HAIY

F56/5736

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL;

DECIA"S HICAMON SCHEDULE

G-YEB

015

BEtR

GROUP 1

automatic

downgrading and

declossification

INFORMATION REP

INFORMATION REPORT

3094841-3

The disseminallon of this document is

of the USIB member agencies,

act upon the

within

of

released

those

components

marion. Howlthin

the intelligence

components

paragraph 8

SCID 1/7

it may be

the

ho departments

and agencies of the

unless pirate rollid

Government direcily

production of

National Intelligence

orath vor me Distin 102

TO CÓNTRACTORS.

anandal

Including

consultants, under a contractual

relatlonship to the

'be

disseminated

U.S. Government without the willten permission of the originator.

NW 64954 Docld:34517496 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

- 2..

CURRICULUM VITAE

Born In Gonaives, Halti, on Aprll 22, 1923, from a peacant fanily.

Ilad his prinary schooling at the "Ecale des Freres des Gonaives,'

and his secondary schooling at the "lyce duffrari' in the sume town.

Upon his father's dcuth, did various joba to support his fanily.

Has in turn schoolmaster at the rural school of Verrettes, at $15

a month, free lance teacher at $0.40 por month per child, time-

kcoper, plantation supervisox, photographer; santiary clert,

lance journaliet. In tho latter capacity, founded 'L'Intrepide' and

'L'Aurore' in cooperation with the late Emmmuel C. Paul.

Phyto-Pathologist.

In 19/10, was appointed Controller General of the Banana Development

'ampany (BADECO), of which he bocame the General Agent in 1948.

The folloving year, eatablishod himself as Manufacturer's Agent,

end created an Import-Ixport trade house.

Married in 1952, Sophie Therisson.

In 1953, went to London as a Member of the Econonic Mission sent to

England by the Haition Govermmnt, and in 1954, negotiated, on behalf

of tha Goveriment, a coutract vith The Ceneral Electric Co., Lid.,

Coventry, England.

This contract vas in connection with the extension

and nodenization of the Iclecormnication system in Faits.

In 1957, was appointed as a member of the Economie Mission to the

Interuational Conference held In Irusele, Delgium.

Created in 1960, the "BANQUE COMIRCIALE D'HAITI, " Of vaich he 16-

the president and Director General. Is also the President of the

fallowing fine ho himself created:

Universal Enterprises Co. B.A.

(USACO)

Naticual Deutsch Associates, B.A. (Kenas Giltivation)

Halcomp a'Hoits, S.A.

Mugéco Enterprisca, S.A.

Société laltienne de Penux & Cuire (Leather & Skins)

Ic Tabac Taitien

Adminictration Portunire de Port-aUl-Prince

Caribbean Cordage K111

Corporation Philatélique d'Hast1

shada Division, Montrouis

Automobile Insurance Division - Taird Party Lobilities

LES EssCACeS Aromatique d'HaltI

Produito Nationaux, Sd.

Accurance Vielllesse Obligatoire

(ONA)

Societ Tation de l tude de do tructiona

(SUNNINCO

(SONAFRUCO)

He is the exclusive Ageut for the following firma:

The GenTal ElectriC Go., Ltd, of Coventry

Sicnens Schuckertverb A. G. Lxlanges, Germany

PresentlY! Prenidont of the Chamber of Cormerco of Haiti

ĐEC-AHE

016

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

PECTICE TOTINE SCHEDELA

NW 64954 Docld:34517496 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

Bug funtan

- 3 -

Member 0f:

Cormittee for the Rehabllitation of the Rural Sections

Commerce & Industry Association of New York

Rotary Club of Port-au-Prince

Tennis Club of Port-Au-Prince

Action fox Latir American Unity, Mexico

Acadenia de Derecho International, Mexico

Awards & Distinction:

Kaight of the National Order 'Honor & Merit' (MAITI)

officer of the Labor Order

Commender of the Civil Herit Order

Comander of the International Order for Pablic Welfare - France

Corandcr of the liational Order for Agricultural Ncrit

Commander of the Order "Petion & Bolivar' - for services rendered

to the cause of Pan Amcricanism

Honorary citizen of the City of Longbeach, I. I., New York

Honorary citizen of the City of New York

Honcrary citizen of the City of Berlin

Medal of His Holinesa Pope PauloV1.

4. In addition ir Charles made avallable two other papers that are likevise

of interest.

One 1e a Liat of correspondents for the Comercial Banis

of Faitt and the second consists of enterpriacs controlled by that bank

which worc. not included in the latest balance sheet. I quote these

papErO as fOllows:

BANKS • LIST OF CORRESPONUCITS

V. S. A.:

71)

Banis of Anorica (International)

P. O. Box 3415

Rincon Annex, San Francioco 20, Cellfaato

(2)

First National City Banks

399 Paxk Avenue

Now York, I. X. 10022

(3)

Manufacturers Hanover Truit Company

Lit Wal1 Street

New York 15, F. I.

(4)

Irving trust Company

One Wall Street

Hew York 15, M. I.

(5)

Firit lational Bank of Boston

Foston 6, Hass.

(6)

Pan American Bank of Miat

P. 0. Box 831

Mand 30, Florida

FRANCE

Crdalt Lyonzalo

19 Bouleverd des Itsliens

Parts, Franca

SNIZERLAND:

71)

United Overseas Banis (Banque Unfe pout len Faya d'Outre-Ver,

3-5 Nue du Consell Genoral

Geneve, suisse

B-BERET

EXCLUDED FROM CENTRAT

017

NW 64954: Docld 34517496 Page 4

---

## Page 5

•CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

(2)

Union de Banques Suisses

8, Rue du Rhöne

. Genive, Suisse

ENGLAND:

MIDLAND BANK LINTED

(Overseas Branch)

P. 0. Box 831

60 Gracechurch Street

London, B. C. 3

EITORFRISES CONTROLED EY BANQUE COMMURCIALE D'HAITI

Not Included In the Balance sheet

(1) SHADA - St. Marc Division

(Xcarly Income) ...

(2)

FORI AVIFORMY - PORI-AU-PRINCE

(Yearly Income)

(3) THIRD PARTY LIABILITY - VILICLE INSURANCE

(Tearly Income)

(4)

ESSERIIAL OILS

(Xcarly Income)

(5)

SEAFOOD • EXPIOMATION

(JeBIly Income) -911

KERTLY LACOME

(7)

PRELATEd ORPORATOR

; (8)

DIVIRASA

(Yearly Income)

(9) П.5.Л.0.0.

(Nearly Income)

(20)

TOYOTA SALUS DIVISION - C. J. Charles Import-Ixport

(Yearly Incone)

(13)

SIGUIN - LUMBIR DIVISION

(Icarly Incone)

(12)

O.I.A. - REIIREMENT INSURANCE

(Tearly minima lacome expectea)

$

500.000.-

600.000.-

1.000.000.-

300.000.0

250.000-0

350.000.-

300.000.0

250.000.00

275.000.00

150.000.0

1000000.-

2.000.000.0

Sinco uy previous commercial associationa in Halti Asted prior to 1959,

I foval It extrenoly difficult to locate old acquaintances, for most are

dond on 1a voluntasy collo. I did manuge to assemalo some data ou

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

NW 64954. Docld:34517496 Page 5

018

---

## Page 6

,CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

- 5-

Mr Charles that I regurd as reliablo. He is specifically roperred to

as "Papa Doc's" beniser and fimncial munzger.

Mr Charles, as vould

be cxpected 1s "very close to the Palace" and has ready eccess to

Prosident Duvalier.

As for his character, he 10 described as "a

crook and a poor llar."

In other tardo, Mr Charles 10 truly & Haltsan

political character and not to be trusted under any conditions.

6.

I noted that Mr Charles mentions his activity la 1951 as s negotiator

on behalf of the Faition Goveruent vith the Genoral Electric Co of

England for nodainization of the country's telecoumnications systen.

As a result of this contract Infti experienced one of 1tu grestest

political scandals for the contract vas for Us,4 million, and the

actual, dellvery of products was only Usal million.

I, likerise,

obscrved that Mr Charles 10 preuident of the Haitian Bananz Corp

which was originally operated by Eric lippenhauer and Coloni Prosper,

and subsequently was bankrupt becaude of francial misuanagement.

Still further, Ecsential Oila Co vas at one time the exclusive comin

of Senator Louis De Jole, and since his death the company is kceded

by Mr Charles.

7.

I am perconally satisfled that fir Clenard Joseph Charles Is Prenident

Duvalier's personal financial mnager, and the companies directed

by Mr Charles are in fact owned and/or controlled for the benefit

of Haiti's chief executive. At the noment Mr Charles' principal

assistant in the tobacco induciry is Henry Sicloit, who just happens

to be Director of the laition Tobacco Monopoly and Secretary-Treasurer

of Le Iabac Halthen, B. Ar

siclalt is belleved to be Mr Marles'

"Watchet man" but I was not able to vorly this allegation.

• Epit a

019

EXCLUDED FROW GENERAL

N 94954: Docld:34517496 Page 6

---

