JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10120-10150 982 (44 USC 2107 Note}. Casett NW

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 015081

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1978

PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
CAISON, LARRY F.
DOD, FILES
USAF

GOBEL, RUDOLPH
STANLEY, WILLIAM C.
FISCHER, CHARLES

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: _ 05/09/1993

~ OPENING CRITERIA :

“COMMENTS: — Box 292.

v9.1
NW 68261 Docld:32268020 Page 1


a ~

uo KENNEDY “Pai
015081

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1... Identifying Information:

Name__sgt. Lewis Wesley LEBER Date__2/24/78._ 12:03 P.M.

Address Headquarters TAC Place pig 693. HOS TAC
City/State Langley AFB, VA 23665 », Langley, AFB ‘

Telephone
Date of Birth 38 years Mors

Children

2. Physical Description:
Héight Color Eyes : Hair

Weight Special Characteristics —~
Ethnic Group

3. ..Bersonal History:
a... Present Employment:

Address
Telephone

b. Criminal Record
1. Arrests.

2. Convictions

_ Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

‘b. Area frequented:

-c.. Remarks: on

Investigator KOK YY cn se

Date =

nW.s8264 Dockd:37268020 Page 2



SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME__sgt, Lewis Wesley LEBER Date__2/24/78 Time _12:03P.M.
Address_yeadquarters TAC Place Bldg. #693 Has. TAC

—Langley AFB, VA

Interview:

Due to..the nature of the interview, DOD approval was sought and
acquired prior to scheduling contact with Sgt. LEBER. The
sensitive nature of the military activities at Langley AFB also.
required that approval be given to Sgt. Leber to participate in’
the interview with the undersigned, which in turn resulted in
the presence of two military personnel at the outset of the
session, namely Colonel Gene D. Hunter and Special Agent David

(104) 76 4- 7708
Herb Pelham, both of the USAF Office of Special Investigations.

Because of the awkward circumstances, the two civilian-
attired military observers were asked to leave the Se hip,
Sgt. Leber 4B relax and to encourage freer recall. Without ob=
jection, both observers left soon after the interview began.

During the course of the-conversation with Sgt. Leber, |
the following information was elicited:

1. Subject recalled the full name of the person.in
question as Captain William C. STANLEY, Special Security Officér
for Headquarters TAC-Intelligence. Captain Stanley had been:
working under a Major Rudolph GOBEL. sometime during 1970 and/or

L971.

Interviewer
Signature

Clifford A. Fenton, dr,
(Typed) : i
Date Transcribed 3/20/78" jeg. *



. Interview of Sgt. L. W. LEBER
2/24/78
Page Two

2. Since Leber was transferred to Hqs. TAC at
Langley AFB in 1970, he only knew STANLEY for approximately
2-3.-months (exact time unknown). However, during this period
of time, LEBER does not recall any conversation with STANLEY
relative to the JFK assassination, Russia, Cuba and/or Mexico.

3. LEBER stated that Capt. STANLEY was an ex-enlisted
man who had served 16 years in the Army and was about 38 years
of age in 1970. He was possibly "r.i.f.'ed" from the service
in 1971 and was said to have had severe financial problems.

4. Further, it is believed that Capt. STANLEY left
the service and went to study law at the University of Miami
(Florida) in 1971.

5. Two servicemen were identified as having served
under Capt. STANLEY, namely Larry F. CAISON and Chief Master
Sergeant Charles FISCHER, about whom, it was felt, additional
information could be secured.

Following the termination of the interview, assistance
was provided in obtaining the addresses of the above-referenced
servicemen:

Lt. Col. Rudolph D. GOBEL, Jr., Retired
2671 Merrie Oaks Road
Winter Park, Florida 32789
Larry F. CAISON
1508 Gronin Drive
Hampton, Virginia
At the present time the whereabouts of Sgt. FISCHER

and Capt. STANLEY are unknown.

nw 68261 Docid:32268020 Page 4

