# docid-34517402

## Page 1

Released under the John F

ennedy Ascassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

ase#:Nw 64954 Date:

1-14-2022

Date

Page

08/18/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10003-10415

RECORDS SERIES

FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: AC643175W - PAGES 91-92

---

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE : COMMANDOS L-66

DATE: 02/25/63

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: VECIANA BLANCH, ANTONIO C

- DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NWV 64954

Docld:34517402 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Commands 26606062522

ALVArEz belongs to

that I Broup of

CONFIDENTIAL

1. 0n61-Comuniat

suban exiles no are devoted to the overthrow of the present

Government of cuba. this group has no political ambitions.

has no nene and does not belong to any of the large wed now

antI- CASTRO organizations.

ALVARE? has a 45 foot cabin cruiser called the

"Alisan".

His group also has a 83 foot ex-Coast Guard boat

In the Miami River at Miami and recently had obtained & 93

foot boat near lamps, florida. They had been in the process

of bringing this 93 fuii boat

to Mians, however, numerous

breakdowns and high expenses have caused many diffioulties

and se yet this boat 18 not in Mian.

Approvina'ol shree months previously, ALVAREZ

was in contact will die Bie who

• is considered

the head of operaiiss Alpha 0u, at which

time VECIANA had

a small nucleus of membo's in Miant, who later left for

puerto Rico.

It la conridered that VECIANA's organization

in the United Staïes is centered in Puerto Rico and that

he operates out of unidentified islande in the Bahamas.

GLEN ASMUSSEN, Inspector, Immigration and Naturallea

Fion Service (INS), Miam1, Floride In October 29, 1962

advised that one SANTIAGO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ WAS aMONg & GrOUD

of inalviduals no were picked up by the coast Guard at Coy

sad: Bahamas. This group caimed to be members of Alpha 60,

departed Miami on October 21, 1962 and lost

their boat and

equipment while attempting to land in cuba.

According to information from the Visa Offloe,

United States Department of State, Washington, D. C., one

SANTIAGO ALFREDO ALVAREZ

FERNANDEZ, & Cuban National, who

may be identical to SANTIAGO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ, WaS 008h on

June 12, 1941 at Havana, Cuba, and applied for non-Immigrant

vIsa on Marah 17, 1959 at tie American Embassy In Havana.

A visa was not lasued apparently because he did not qualify

as a bone sie pening at that tine alvarez gave nie

address as Calle 28, No. 4105, Marianano, Havana, Cuba and

was the bearer of cuban Passport 04743 1ssued on March 6, 1959.

EUGENE BLANCO AMIGO

sJ T-l on January 22, 1963 advised that one of the

promoters of the diesident element of Alpha 66 1s DE. EUGENE

REGRADED CONFIDENTIAL

ON

AUG 0g 1994

BY COR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DOD 5200.1-R

EXCLUDED FRUM AUTOMATIC REGRADING/

• UUD Did 520.10 _ OEU i.OT APPLY

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

91

105

NWV: 64954

Docld:34517402 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

all the properties of JULIO LOBO had been intervened by tie

Cuban dovernment.

PEREZ DAPLC stated that he had been

comptrel..

der for Olavarria and Company In Havana for many years and 18 &

Certified Publie Accountant by profession.

PERCZ DAPIE

advised that he has been working in the offices of Olavarla

and Company In New York sinoe hid arrival in

the United

states.

RAMON PEREZ DAPLE stated that he was well aoquainted

with ANTONIO VECIANA as VECIANA had at one time been employed

by JULIO IOBO'& bank in Havana, Cuba.

PEREZ DAPIE stated

that he had oollected funds for Alpha 66 prior to the disclosure

of the seoret pact which was signed by VECIANA and former

MAJOr ELOY GUTIERREZ, MENOYO Of the Second Ntional Front of

the Escambray

• (SNrE)•

, since the alactogure of this secret

pact, PEREZ DAPIE advised that he has severed his association

With VECIANA and the group which he heade which 18 st1ll

Known as Alpha 66.

PEREZ DAPLE stated that he hasrot been

astave recently in soliciting funds in the New York ares

and for the present does not intend to make any collections.

PEREZ DAPLE advised that his brother, BERNARDO

PEREZ DAPLE, 18 employed in the Charter House,

puerto R100 and he had also been associated with Alpha 66

until the split over the pact between VICIANA and MENOYO.

BERNARDO PEREZ DAPLE

35 T-1 on January 22, 1963 listed BERNARDO

PEREZ DAPLE, An ex-member of the Mourara and Perez Deple

P1ra In Havana and a public accountant, as a member of the

dissident element of Alpha 66.

ALBERTO GUTIERREZ DE LAS SALMA On OCtober 30, 1962

BOVISed BERNARDO PEREZ DAPIE, brother Of RAMON PEREZ DAPIS

(See above. is a leading figure of Alpha 66 in San Juan,

Puerto Raco.

POPR Special Bulletin No. 24, dated November

16, 1962 for the month of October,

1962 (see above) • 8et8

forth information to the effect the BERNARDO PEREL ASL

18 & member of Comando L 66.

che

REGRADED CONNE

ON 5 л0g 94.

BY CER USAINCOON: FOI/PO

Auth Para I-603 DOD 5200.1R

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517402 Page 3

1.5:

CONFIDENTIAL. 10G.

---

