# docid-32291370

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10146

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-81

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1960

PAGES:

320

SUBJECTS :

GAL, BKG, MED/PERS HIST, ACT, ASSOC, AA, THP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

• COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 1

331

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

all the bets which he booked.

It is noted that CG 6272-C has

advised that it is ALEX's command

that all bookmakers operating

in the First Ward must lay off all their bets with BRIATTA.

The conversation overheard by the informant showed very definitely

that TORNABENE was to pay off one per cent of what he obtained

in revenue from juke boxes to 100 North LaSalle.

100 North

LaSalle is the headquarters of Alderman JOHN D'ARCO, Alderman

of the First Ward. BRIATTA complained that TORNABENE, in the

Santa Fe Hotel was in the First Ward and that contrary to

instructions, "He would hold the cream and give him the rotten

stuff.

There were certain parts that he didn't wanna hold, be

turns

it over to us." FERRARO then called TORNABENE two obscene

names and BRIATTA Commented as follows: "He double crossed me

(obscene)."

FERRARO asked, "How?", and BRIATTA replied, "Because

GUSSIE (ALEX) told him to go over there and if he says one word,

he says wack him right in the mouth.

I went over there and he

didn't yap at all.

That's why I went over there and I caught

him.

said what: the (obscene) you guys doing. Where's the

business.

So one afternoon MARCI (PAT MARCI, Secretary to

Alderman JOHN D'ARCO) and I as they opened the door we got into

the place.

There were two fellows making $50.00 and $100.00 bets

and I says, 'What the (obscene) are ya doin'.'

started this.". FERRARO then said, "You want to knock him out of

we're gonna take action if we catch him holding out

anymore.

CG 6343-C* then advised that following this conversation

BRIATTA apparently handed to FERRARO $23, 650.00.

Of this amount

$13,000.00 was returned to BRIATTA and BRIATTA was instructed to

"Take this to John D'Arco". BRIATTA asked,

"Take it to the office

or home?" FERRARO replied, "Wherever he's at.

$1,600.00.

Oh,

here's the extra."

BRIATTA then asked, "Should I give it

John or Pat? If Johnny is not there give it to Pat and say to

Pat give this to Jobnny." FERRARO replied, "Sure". BRIATTA then

said, "Okay, I'll go over there now."

Following this conversation BRIATTA stated, "This

morning, I had a guy from Phelan's Office (Captain KYRAN PHELAN,

Deputy Chief of the Uniform Police, Chicago Police Department)

over to the house.

Eddie. Well I

got this guy now from the

-F-

COVER PAGE

900-10196

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

It would also appear from the conversation that

ALEX and FERRARO have some jurisdiction over TORNBENE and

ARGER. From CG 6232-C it is known that ALEX and FERRARO

have

sanctioned TORNBENE'S and ARGER's activities in the

loop and without their approval ARGER and TORNBENE could

not continue to operate as they do.

Tis information hast

been reported in the past.

CG 6343-C* reported on January 18, 1960, that on

that date SAM GIANCANA and MURRAY HUMPHREYS, Chicago top

hoodlums, had a conversation. HUMPHREYS made the following

comment:

"You know, the older I get, the better I get.

You guys

better not put me on the (obscene)

farm."

GIANCANA laughed at that remark.

HUMPHREYS continued:

"What with GUSSIE saying that they're gonna put

him on the,(obscene) farm, you better keep me

around."

HUMPHREYS reference to GUSSIE is obviously to GUSSIE

ALEX and it would appear that in view of ALEX's deteriorating

health, ALEX is considering retiring from the Chicago crime

syndicate, at least to some extent.

On the same date, HUMPHREYS had a conversation with

FRANK FERRARO concerning MIKE BROEKIN, well known Chicago

criminal lawyer with offices at 188 West Randolph. In this

regard, FERRARO made the following comment:

"That money hungry MIKE. GUSSIE is the guy who

controls him on the price."

Later on this same date BRODKIN had a conversation

with FERRARO and HUMPHREYS.

HUMPHREYS and FERRARO were angry

with BRODKIN in view of the fact that they felt that he was

charging them too much money for a particular situation which

-P-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

WER: lac

The reference to STEVE by ALEX midway in the

conversation is probably a reference to STEVE DE KOSTA.

It is noted that DE KOSTA is ostensibly the owner and

manager of the Huckster's Restaurant in Chicago.

According to PCI TURA SATANA, a burlesque dancer, who

is intimately friendly with HENRY SUSK

and also well

acquainted with GUS ALEX, the Huckster's is operated

by DE KOSTA for SUSK and

ALEX, who are

the actual owners.

The reference to CLAIR is apparently a reference to the

owner of three Chicago hotels, the st. Clair,

the Croydon,

and the Eastgate, all of which are located on the near

North Side of Chicago.

From information furnished by

CG 6343-C* in the past, it is known that CLAIR is very

closely associated with MURRAY HUMPHREYS and other Chicago

hoodlums.

On July 12, 1960, CG 6343-C* furnished the

following information regarding a conversation between

JIMMY CELANO, MURRAY HUMPHREYS,

and GUS ALEX, in which

they discussed surveillances and investigations conducted

on themselves by various agencies:

CELANO:

HUMPHREYS:

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

"I have guys come in, buy a couple suits:

They know aboutme.

They tap my home

phone.

They know my kids go to college.

They

know all about me.

They investigate. They did the same

thing to me.

They start out since you

were a kid.

All your family. They even

know whether my wife went to urinate.

Divorce too, Gus and her.

So what, I haven't done anything.

In 1958 they started. The comings and

goings.

Gussie and

Frankie.

ROSS PrIO

(obscene) them. They followed me.

CELANO:

HUMPHREYS:

They followed me.

Did they?

- Ul -

COVER PAGE

501-10110

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

WFR: lac

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

• ...

...

and you weren't touching LEO's money at

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

ALEX:

Yo, we.....LElTY's money, 25% of LEFTY's

money.

You want me to prove it!

Your word is good enough.

OK...

... LEFTY died. . .......

HUMPHREYS:

• LEFTY didn't have any money and he

had

to loan him $30,000?

The reference made to BRAD EBEN relates to A. BRADLEY

EBEN, an attorney at 134 south La salle, who represented

Premium Beer Sales, Incorporated, during the fight with

the Fox Head Brewing Company of Waukegan, Wisconsin.

EBEN

also represented DOMINIC VOLPE, President of Premium Beer,

at the time VOLPE was contacted andiinterviewed by agents

of this office.

It should further be noted that EBEN

authorized the records of Premium Beer Sales, Incorporated,

be made available to the FBI.

The reference to "LENNIE" probably pertains to

LENNIE PATRICK, an associate of the Chicago Crime Syndicate

who handles the gambling element in the Rogers Park area

in Chicago.

"DAVEY" is probably DAVE YARRAS, a lieutenant

fOr LENNIE PATRICK, who reportedly spends most of his time

in Miami.:

The reference to "LEO" is believed to be LEO

SCHAFER, a bookie who was arrested in Terre Haute, Indiana,

in connection with the operation of a multi-million dollar

sport's service. SCHAFER was convicted on a tax charge in

connection with

the above in June, 1959, and his case is

on appeal.

CG 6272-C has advised that LEO SCHAFER and LEFTY

SCLAR were boyhood friends and were partners in a gambling

operation in the Chicago area.

LEFTY died about two years

ago and his wife allegedly died a short time before his

death.

It is believed that the reference to LEFTYmade by

ALEX and HUMPHREYS concerns the same individual identified

by CG 6272-C.

- P2 -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

CG T-1

Local Draft Board #80

Selective Service System

2319 South Wentworth Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

CG T-2

NELS NIELSEN

Postal Carrier

assigned

to Evergreen Park, Illinois,

Post Office

CG T-3

JOE KRUCZEK

Postal Carrier assigned to

Lake View Postal Substation,

Irving Park Road and Southport

Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

CG T-4

CG 3733-C

Date Received

4/14/44, as reviewed by

SA WILLIAM M. KELLY.

3/4/58 and 3/28/58 to

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER.

This postal carrier has

served ALEX's mailing

address.

3/4/58 to SA ROEMER.

This postal carrier

SErvEs

ALEX's residence at 4300

North Marine Drive.

In 1950 to an unknown

Agent. This informant

is not personally acquainted

with ALEX or his associates

and obtained this information

through contact with small-

time hoodlums.

In 1946 to unknown Agents.

CG T-5

Inspectors L. B. MC NALLY

and R. E. SHALLBERG,

Alcohol Tax Unit,

Chicago, Illinois

CG T-6

Internal Revenue Service

Washington, D. C.

Information furnished

through liaison at Seat of

Government as set out in

Bureau letter to Chicago

dated 5/12/59.

- U3 -

COVER PAGE

501-10149

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

doctor" contact was made by SA CARLSON on 9/26/60 with

RAYMOND SCHROEDER, Assistant Security Officer at the Mayo

Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.

It is noted that information

has previously been developed that ALEX was a patient at the

clinic on two occasions during the past year.

Mr. SCHROEDER

advised, however, that ALEX was not registered at the clinic.

RUSSELL LANG, Manager of the Kahler Hotel, advised that ALEX

was not registered at the hotel on that date, it being noted

that ALEX stayed at the Kahler Hotel during the occasions of

his visits to the Mayo Clinic.

PCI TURA SATANA advised SA ROEMER on 9/29/60 that she

recently went boating with GUSSIE ALEX, LOUIE ARGER, BUTCH

LADON, JOE PIGNATELLO, and with another girl whom she knew

only as GEORGIA, who appeared to be a good friend of ALEX. It

is noted that ARGER is a subordinate of ALEX who operates

several arcades and amusement parlors in the southern portion

of the Loop in Chicago. LADON is ALEX' chauffeur and body

guard. PIGNATELLO is a chauffeur, body guard, and cook for

SAM "Mooney" GIANCANA, Chicago top hoodlum.

GEORGIA's identity

is unknown except that information has been developed in the

past that ALEX has a girl friend named GEORGIA. PCI advised

that the boat excursion was taken by the group

in one of the

boats owned by ARGER which he keeps in Burnham Harbor in

Chicago.

It is noted that PCI SATANA left the Chicago area

shortly after the contact with her on 9/29/60 and at the present

time is touring the burlesque circuit in Las Vegas, Honolulu,

Los Angeles, and other cities in the Western portion of the

United States. For this reason, she has furnished no information

concerning ALEX since that time.

PCI BETTY ANN AMOS advised SAs RALPH R. HILL and

ROEMER on 10/25/60 that she has obtained information that GUS

ALEX is the financial interest behind a series of pancake

stores called "Eddie Doucette's Pancake Plantations."

It is

noted that there are four of these restaurants located in

the Chicago area.

It is noted that PCI AMOS has been the

cashier at Mike Fish's Restaurant in the Sovereign Hotel at

6200 North Kenmore in Chicago.

She advised that many Chicago

hoodlums frequently have met at Fish's Restaurant in a private

dining room located in the rear of the restaurant. She stated

that these hoodlums included ALEX, MURRAY HUMPHREYS, EDDIE

VOGEL, and others such as ROCCO DE STAFANO, PAUL DORFMAN,

MANNY SKAR, JOE FUSCO, and PAT MANNO:

- M7 -

COVER PAGE

JALTONIO

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

CG 5973-C advised SA C. LEONARD TREVIRANUS on 4/4/60

that GUS ALEX and SIDNEY KORSHAK are frequently seen together

in public places. He identified KORSHAK as being a millionaire

attorney with homes in Chicago and Los Angeles, California,

and with offices in Chicago and Los Angeles. It is noted that

SIDNEY KORSHAK bas been interviewed on three or four occasions

by SA ROEMER and has admitted his association with ALEX.

KORSHAK is presently under investigation as a

top hoodlum of

the Los Angeles Office:

CG 5973-C advised SA TREVIRANUS on 10/26/60 that

ALEX and KORSHAK continue to be seen together in public as of

that time.

This informant also advised that ALEX has a

considerable financial interest in an automobile agency or

agencies operated by HENRY SUSK. It is noted that HENRY SUSK

is a prominent Pontiac dealer in Chicago and that he operates

Henry Susk Pontiac, 1510 N. Clark St., and Peter Epsteen

Pontiac in Skokie,

Illinois. As noted above, PCI TURA

SATANA has advised that SUSK and ALEX are close associates.

CG 5973-C advised on 11/14/60 that GUS ALEX recently

became quite friendly with a prominent New York model, named

SONNY ANDERSON.

It is noted that information has previously

been developed

that ALEX spent last winter in the New York -

New Jersey area recuperating from a nervous ailment. This

informant advised that recently ALEX contacted his wife, MARIANNE

ALEX, from New York and has otherwise conducted himself

indicating to MARIANNE ALEX that he and SONNY ANDERSON are

intimate friends.

Informant stated that MARIANNE ALEX iS

very angry with her husband concerning this situation and that

the situation is aggravated

due to the fact that SONNY

ANDERSON has been one of MARIANNE ALEX's closest friends.

It is noted that MARIANNE ALEX is one of Chicago's most

prominent models and that SONNY ANDERSON was a close associate

of hers while in Chicago.

PCI BEN LIEBLING advised SA JOSEPH G. SHEA on

11/16/60 that he had recently learned that LOUIE TORNABENE

is in serious trouble with the hoodlums in Chicago. He advised

that TORNABENE has been running a horse book in the vicinity

of the Santa Fe Hotel, Polk and State Streets, Chicago, for

some time and has withheld approximately $75,000 from the

underworld by not posting all his bets on his books.

PCI

stated that he has learned that GUS ALEX, who is in charge

of the district where TORNABENE ran his handbook for the

underworld, will take action in the future after some of this

- N7 -

COVER PAGE

501-10140

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

money has been collected and that the word among hoodlums

is that TORNABENE will eventually be disposed of. It is noted

that information

has previously been developed concerning

a similar situation involving TORNABENE through PCI JERRY

LOMBARDI, who advised that TORNABENE was in trouble with

ALEX in the early Winter of 1958-59.

partner Of MARIANNE RYAN ALEX,

oak street in Chicago and is also the partner of MARIANNE RYAN

Ahis In another business concern involving modeling.

JOHNSON

has been contacted frequently in the past by SA ROEMER

concerning the marital relationship between GUS and MARIANNE

ALEX and concerning his knowledge of the activities and travel

of ALEX. JOHNSON advised SA ROEMER on 12/15/60 that on

12/14/60 MARIANNE ALEX decided to divorce GUS ALEX. He

stated that MARIANNE has been very unhappy with her relationship

with ALEX for the past year or so and that finally on 12/14/60

she made a firm decision to divorce ALEX.

JOHNSON stated,

however, that he has advised her not to

leave ALEX at the

time due to the possibility that ALEX could then obtain

the divorce on grounds of desertion and that MARIANNE ALEX

and GUS ALEX will continue to reside at Apartment 1001, Marine

Drive, in Chicago but that they will live in separate rooms

in that apartment. JOHNSON stated that the reason for MARIANNE'S

decision is that she has finally become fed up with ALEX's

way of life as a hoodlum and that she can no longer stand her

existence as the wife of a syndicate hoodlum.

JOHNSON advised that he has been acting as MARIANNE

ALEX's attorney in connection with her business affairsbut

that he is not a divorce attorney and does not expect that he

will handle the divorce for MARIANNE; although, he will probably

influence her decision as to her choice of an attorney.

JOHNSON stated that he expects that GUS ALEX will choose

EUGENE BERNSTEIN as his attorney in this regard, it being

noted that BERNSTEIN has handled ALEX's tax returns for

many years.

JOHNSON advised that he is agreeable to approaching.

MARIANNE ALEX in order to sound her out concerning the

possibility of an interview with SA ROEMER.

He stated that he

will talk to MARIANNE and explain to her that it would

appear to him to be the better course of action to explain

her relationship with ALEX and her knowledge of ALEX's

activities rather than to have the FBI investigate by talking

to other friends and

associates of MARIANNE concerning ALEX.

- 07 -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-7

JAMES C. WINDHAM

President, Blatz Brewing Company,

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

(Upon Request)

CG T-8

FRANK VERBEST, Chairman

of the Board,

Blatz Brewing

Company, (Upon Request)

CG T-9

E. W. PULVER, Vice-President

and Sales Manager,

Foxhead

Brewing Company, Waukesha,

Wisconsin,

(formerly in

charge of Blatz Brewing Company

Distributorship in the Loop

area of Chicago)

(Upon Request)

CG T-10

ERIC EDS TRAND, Manager

and Distributor, Blatz Brewing

Company, Chicago Division,

401 North Hamlin, Chicago,

Illinois, (Upon Request)

CG T-11

SIDNEY M. KELLER, Owner-Manager,

Whiteball Club,

(Upon Request)

CG T-12

CG 6272-C

Date Received

On 6/30/58 to Agents of

the Milwaukee Office.

On 6/30/58 to Agents of

the Milwaukee Office.

Information furnished on

7/8/58 to Agents of the

Milwaukee Office.

On 7/29/58 to SA ROEMER.

On 10/28/58 to SAS PAUL

B. FRANKFURT and ROEMER.

On 7/1/60, 6/13/59, 11/20/58,

9/1/60, and 12/11/59 to

SA REMER.

- V3

COVER PAGE

S0J-1OAP

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CG. 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-13

CG 5973-C.

CG T-14

MrS. LOUISE (LULU) LEVITUS,

828 West Cuyer Avenue,

Chicago (Upon Request)

CG T-15

SANDY SMITH,

Reporter, "Chicago Tribune"

(Deemed

Advisable)

Date Received

On 3/14/58 to SAs C.

LEONARD TREVIRANUS and

ROEMER; on 8/13/54 to SA

TREVIRANUS.

This informant

is a friend of ALEX's wife.

On 3/5/58 to SA ROEMER.

This source is a former

employer and a friend of

ALEX's wife.

On 12/18/57 to SA LENARD A.

WOLF; On 3/5/59,

6/15/59,

4/6/59, and 6/2/60 to SA

ROEMER.

SMITH is a veteran

crime reporter of the "Chicago

Tribune" and is well acquainted

with hoodlums in the Chicago

area.

In 1944 to SA WILLIAM S.

KELLY.

CG T-16

JOHN PHILLIP CURRAN

Chief Petty Officer,

United States Navy Induction

Center, Chicago, Illinois

CG. T-17

RAYMOND SCHROEDER, Security

Officer, Mayo Clinic,

Rochester, Minnesota

(Upon Request)

CG T-18

Mr. ALBIN BERENS, Security

Officer, Mayo Clinic,

Rochester,

Minnesota

(Upon Request)

Information furnished to

SA ROBERT L. CARLSON of

the Minneapolis Office on

6/17/59.

On 11/25/59 to SA ROBERT

L. CARLSON of the Minneapolis

Office.

- W3 -

COVER PAGE

TOU-INP

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-19

GEORGE E. Q. JOHNSON, JR.

105 West Adams

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-20

NY 2427-C

CG T-21

RUSSELL LANG, Manager,

Kahler Hotel, Rochester,

Minnesota, (Upon Request)

CG T-22

CLARENCE HUGHES, Chief

of Security,

Drake Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-23

MiSs. RITA RYAN, Nurse,

Cook County Hospital,

1900 West Polk,

Chicago, (Upon

Request)

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 12

Date Received

On 8/2/60, 4/22/59, and

12/17/58 to SA ROEMER.

JOHNSON is the husband of

the busi-

He is a very close friend

of ALEX's wife and a friend

Of ALEX.

On 5/16/60 to SA EDMUND

FLANNAGAN of the New York

Office.

On 8/5/60 to SA ROBERT L.

CARLSON of the Minneapolis

Office; and 11/25/59 to SA

CARLSON.

On 9/17/58 to SA ROEMER.

Information furnished to

SAS EUGENE C. GIES and ROEMER

on 3/25/59, 6/4/59.

Miss

RYAN is a first cousin of

MARIANNE RYAN ALEX, the wife

of GUS ALEX, and formerly

frequently

associated with

the ALEXS.

- X3 -

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 13

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-24

HECTOR (TONY) TONTINI,

Maitre d': Whitehall

CLub, 105

East Delaware,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-25

CG 6232-C

CG T-26

EILEEN EDGAR, CLerK,

Illinois Bell Telephone Company,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

Date Received

On 10/20/58 and 7/20/59

to

SA ROMER.

TONTINI

is the maitre d' at the

Whitehall Club where ALEX

and several other Chicago

top hoodlums hold membership.

On 8/7/58, 9/24/58, 10/14/58,

and 11/20/58 to SAs WILLIAM

A. MEINCKE and JOSEPH G.

SHEA.

This informant is

a former bookmaker in

Chicago who operated in the

First Ward of Chicago, which

District is controlledfor

the Chicago Crime Syndicate

by ALEX.

Informant is,

therefore, personally

acquainted

with ALEX.

On 1/3/00, 4/8/58, 1/30/58,

and 6/19/58 to IC JOHN E.

WHALEN.

- Y3 -

COVER PAGE

FOLIONS

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 13

---

## Page 14

%..

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG .T-27-

CG 6132-C

CG T-28

THOMAS CROSTON STEWART

Southern Shores Yacht

Club, Inner Harborn,

Jackson Park, Chicago,

Illinois

(upon request)

CG T-29

BRUNO L. TRAVELLETTI,

Manager, Drake Travel

Service,

919 North

Michigan, Chicago,

Illinois

(upon request)

CG T-30

Former PCI

RAY LONGTREE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 14

Date Received

On 1/3/58 to SA WILLIAM J.

MC CORMICK:

This informant

is a jewel fence in Chicago

but is not closely associated

or acquainted with ALEX.

On 5/5/59 to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER.

Informant is not

acquainted with ALEX but

is acquainted with his close

associate FRANK FERRARO.

On 4/28/59 to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER. TRAVELLETTI is

acquainted with ALEX and

has arranged several European

and other trips for ALEX and

his wife in the past several

years:

On 9/11/58 and 10/7/58 to

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER: LONGTREE

formerly was an employee in

the apartment building where

ALEX resides and was in a

position to furnish information

concerning ALEX's comings and

goings from his apartment and

the identity of his visitors

and

associates.

- 73 -

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 15

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-31

CHARLES THOMSETT,

Receiving Clerk,

4200 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

Date Received

CG T-32

CG 6241-C

CG T-33

MrS. LOUISE NEAFSEY,

Chicago, Illinois

(Deemed.

• Advisable)

CG T-34

Fomer PCI

HAROLD MC ILVENY.

On 5/22/59 to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER•

THOMSETT is the

receiving, clerk on the

apartment building where

MURRAY HUMPHREYS, Chicago

top hoodlum, resides.. He

knows ALEX has been a

visitor

to HUMPHREYS' apartment.

On 3/23/59 and 8/14/59 to

SA JOHN B. HARRINGTON.

This

informant was a car hiker at

Fritzel's Restaurant in Chicago

and therefore was in a position

to know of deliveries of food

to ALEX during period he hid

out.

On 5/27/59 to SA EDWARD J.

NEAFSEY.

Mrs. NEAFSEY

is the wife of SA NEAFSEY

and is a professional model

in Chicago and therefore

obtains knowledge from time

to time concerning the

activities of MARIANNE RYAN

ALEX, who is married to the

subject and who is also a

professional model,

This PCI was contacted on a

regular basis three or four

times a week from 3/25/58

until 11/58°

He was an

elavator at ALEX's residence

and was able to provide con-

siderable information concerning

ALEX's comings and goings,

visitors and associates.

- A4 -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 15

---

## Page 16

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-36

Former PCI

THOMAS MC GANN

CG T-37

Mrs: THELMA PATCH

Former Bookkeeper,

arry Hill Apartments,

4300 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

Date Received

On 6/2/58 to SA WILLIAM F.

This individual

RON Fevator operator

on the night shift at ALEX's

residence and was able to

furnish information concerning

ALEX's comings and goings and

his associates and visitors.

In 3/50 to unknown Agents

Chicago Office and 5/19/58

to SAS PAUL B. FRANKFURT and

WILLIAM F. ROEMER: Mrs. PATCH

is a former bookkeeper at the

Murry Hill Apartmenty where

she knew ALEX and Chicago top

hoodlum EDDY VOGEL who

formerly resided there.

On 2/10/59 to SA JACK S. NEWELL

of Butte Office:

CG T-38

PCI LUCILLE MC DURMAN,

Head Telephone Operator,

Sun Valley Operations,

Sun Valley, Idaho

CG T-39

CSLA 4178-C

- B4 -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 16

---

## Page 17

CG 92-373

WER/ami

Identity of Source

CG T-40

CG 6521-S

Date Received

1/16/58, 3/31/58 and 6/5/58 to

SA ROBERT L. BAKER.

This

informant is familiar with

activities of lesser known

hoodlums in Chicago.

CG T-41

Deputy Superintendent JOSEPH

MORRIS, NA, Bureau of Inspec

tional Services, Chicago

Police Department (upon

request)

CG T-42

TURA SATANA, PCI

Information supplied by blind

memorandum to this office by MORRIS

on 7/21/55. Deputy Superintendent

MORRIS 1s a veteran police officer

in Chicago who is well acquainted

with hoodum activities.

7/28/58, 9/26/58, 10/20/58 and

3/31/59

to SA ROBERT W. HEDDEN.

7/25/60 to SA ROEMER.

This PCI

is a burlesque dancer who is a

CG T-43

Miss KATE EINEDER, 845

West Lawrence Avenue,

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

5/19/58 to SAs PAUL B. FRANKFURT and

ROEMER. 6/10/58 to SAS FRANKFURT

and HOWARD A. CARLSON.

MiSS EINEDER,

during 1958, was a part-tine

nurse

for the daughter of EDDIE VOGEL,

hoodlum associate of ALEX, and

was able to furnish information

concerning ALEX's visits to

VOGEL's apartment.

- C4 -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 17

---

## Page 18

CG 92-373

WFR/amf

Identity of. Source

• CG T-44

Former PCI JAMES RENI

Date Received

5/1/58 to SA FRANKFURT.

This

PCI was formerly a lleutenant

Of EDDIE VOGEL, an associate

of ALEX. He is presently incar-

cerated in the Illinois State

Penitentiary.

CG T-45

JOSEPH LEBOWITZ,

Midlothian Country Club,

Midlothian, Illinois

(upon request)

CG T-46

Former CG 5809-C

304 / 940 10 2A5 DELAERT

8/30/46 and 9/30/46 to

L. WOOD and RALPH J. O'CONNOR.

This source was formerly a book-

maker in the Loop area of Chicago

and an associate of many people.

on the fringe of the Syndicate

in Chicago. He is no longer active

in the bookmaking business:

3/15/56 to SA FRANCIS J. STEFANAK.

This source was familiar with

hoodlum activities in the Chicago

area but is not believed to have

known ALEX personally.

He is no

longer an informant of this office.

CG T-47.

Sgt. CHARLES FITZGERALD,

presently assigned to the

North Side. Detective Bureau

of the Chicago Police Depart-

ment (deemed advisable)

3/24/58 to SAs WILLIAM A. MEINCKE and

LENARD A. WOLF. This source was a

detective in the Chicago Polic®

Department for many years and knows

ALEX well by sight and reputation

- D4 -

COVER PAGE

Sod-larte

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 18

---

## Page 19

CG 92-373

WFR/amf

Identity of Source

CG T-48

Former PCI DOMINICK

ABATA

Date Received

CG T-49

CG 6171-C

2/1/56 to SA WALTER E. PETERS.

This former Pel was well acquain-

ted with some Chicago top hoodlums

but is not believed to be acquainted

with ALEX personally.

3/13/58 to SA WOLF. This source

is an associate of certain

subordinates of ALEX.

CG T-50

Sgt. PATRICK O'CONNOR,

Chicago Police Department,

Robbery Detail

(deemed

advisable)

3/12/58 to SA WOLF. This source

has been an officer of the Chicago

Police Department for many years

and is well acquainted with

hoodlums in the Chicago area.

CG T-51

PCI ROBERT THEODORE

MARTINO

12/6/57 to SA JAMES P. BRODERICK

and 1/19/58 to SA JOSEPH G. SHEA.

PCI is acquainted with lesser

Chicago hoodlums but not with

ALEX.

- E4 -

COVER PAGE

201.10118

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 19

---

## Page 20

CG 92-373

WFR: plb

Identity

CG

• T52

CG

5951-C

of

Source

CG T-53'

PCI SAM NUKES

CG T-54

CG 6218-C

CG T-55

Immigration and Naturalization

Files as furnished by INS Investi-

gator JOHN J. BURKE

Date Received

12/27/57 to SA ROBERT J.

DENEISN®

This source

does not know ALEX,

but is acquainted with

several lesser hoodluns

in Chicago.

2/26/58 to SA HAROLD D. SELL.

This source is not acquainted

with ALEX, but knows several

lesser hoodlums in the

Chicago area.

3/19/58 to SA VINCENT I..

INSERRA.

During the period

when informant furnished

the information concerning

ALEX he was employed in a

handbook operated in ALEX'5

district in the First

Ward of

Chicago. he was

not acquainted with ALEX

but was acquainted with

several of ALEX's sub-

ordinates.

12/16/57 to Investigative

Clerk FRANCIS G. KAHL

F4

COVER PAGE

50210028

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 20

---

## Page 21

CG 92-373

WFR: plb

Identity of Source

CG T-56

Sergeant MICHAEL A. SERRITELLA,

Former Chief of Police, now

Sergeant, Evergreen Park,

Illinois Police Department

(upon request)

CG T-57

FRANCIS

P. LEs

CG T-58

DAVID FALZONE, Manager,

Club Continental, 500 North

Rush Street, Chicago

(upon request)

Date Received

3/5/58

4/15/58

5/30/58 to SA ROEMER.

This source grew up near

ALEX on the near south

side of Chicago and now

resides two blocks from

the residence of ALEX'S

mother in Evergreen Park,

Illinois. He Knows ALEX

well, converses with him

from time to time and

knows other associates of

ALEX.

5/29/58

17/8/59 to SA ROEMER..

'This former PCI is a close

associate of MURRAY

HUMPHREYS, Chicago top

hoodlum, and as such became

acquainted with Gus Alex.

He was closed in December,

1959, when information was

developed indicating that

he furnished information

regarding his contacts with

SA ROEMER tO HUMPHREYS.

9/12/58 to SA WILLIAM A.

MEINCKE.

FALZONE is the

Manager of a hangout for

the Chicago top hoodlums.

During July, 1960, he was

Indicted by a Federal Grand

Jury with two Chicago top

hoodlums for bribery and

TrIS.

- G4 -

COVER: PAGE

50S-01A8

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 21

---

## Page 22

CG 92-373

WER: plb

Identity of Source

CG. T-59

MISs RUBY BRAGG,

All Tours and Travel Agency,

11 South LaSalle, Chicago,

Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-60

PCI AL J. KLINE,

Head of Accounting Department,

Sun Valley Operations,

Sun Valley, Idaho

Date Received

6/16/58 to SA ROEMER.

Miss BRAGG formerly was

a travel agent in Chicago

who arranged travel on

occasions for ALEX and his

wife.

2/10/59 to SA JACK S.

NEWELL of the Butte

Division.

PCI heads the

Accounting Department of

the Sun Valley Operations

where ALEX has visited on

five occasions.

6/16/58 to SAS ALLEN L.

LAVANGER and ROEMER.

CG T-61

ADAM GRUBER,

Officer,

American National Bank and

Trust Company, 33 North

Lasalle, chicago,

(deemed

advisaD 014111n018

advisable, I1lino1s

COVER PAGE

$ON-148

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 22

---

## Page 23

CG 92-573

are all operated by louis torchine and his brothers.

and LOUTS ARGER,

they in tura report to GUS Alry, who

in turn reporte to RICCA and ARCADO***

On May 22, 1959, CG T-31 advised SA WILLIAN FO

concerning activitos of WRAY armeys at hie

residence,

4200 North Marine Drive, Chicago.

Photographs

o? CUS and MARIANNE ALKa were orhibited to this informans

and he stated that he belloves that he has coon ALEX and

his wife in the company of HUTuREyS at 4200 North Maring

Drive.

SAM. "Golfbas"

The "Chicago Tribune", in its issue of

January 19, 1950, carriod an article concerning the

Dolley racket in

chleago.

mis artiele statod that

GUS ALAX,

dapper and good looking, and known as "The

Husdo",

and SAM HUNT were the mob's policy lords on

the South Side of Chicago.

It is noted that BAll

HUNT 18 now deceased,

membar of

SAN HUNT, tOgether with GUS ALL

the group of aight hoodluns tho loft Chicago

on June 6, 1955,

to attond the funeral of "little

New Tork*

ACORSON, 1K A, JOEY

FRANK. IA CROIS, Menazer of the loke Shore

Management Company, 201-Bast Walton Stroet; gav.sec

on April 25, 1957,

that ALEX made application for

rental of an apartment at 1150 Lake Shore Drive.

At

the time of his application on April 2, 1957, ALEX

JOSEPE JACOBSON, 181 North la

sable street

Chicago,

Illinois, as a

reference. Mir. LA CROIX enhibited to

5.9

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 23

---

## Page 24

CG

98313

Thero 18 no HI exchange in tho City of Chloro mt it 1a noted

that lYdo Pers, E4-33344, 10 LIsted tO IRVING VINS, B100

South Cornell, Chiergo, is set out abeve.

In June, 1958, NATHAN "BUTCY" LADON waS interylowed

by SAG SOMER and

ROBERTS. At that

timo ho aduised ho shares

a room at 3100 South Cornell, Caicago, WIth IRVING VINE.

CG T-3, advised that on September

1950,

telophone ell uns made iron the hone of MARIAN RYAN,

Downing Avenue, Glendalo, Califoris to Chicago tolephone

muzbe& Hyde Paris 3-3544.

It is noted that provious

invostigation has determined that ALEX wa staying with

his sother-aLaT, BARIAN RYAN during September,

1959.

JAMES

AS MAHONE

The records of

the CCC contain & monorandn

dated Sentenber 30, 1954,

Swing that Gus AllX was

that time a notoriou South 8id. gambios in Chicago,

a partnor of JAlIS A. MARONsY 10 cambling entor

prison on the

South Bido o& Chicago.

DO BASES ILLA LAMOR

1915-1980

Cd T-25 advised

that ho is an associate of GUB

ALi and that in the late

fall of 1958 ha had roason

to

v1Ek

to contact Alax

an a croat lustry.

He stated that

thorofore ho contact PAT MARCE tho inmediately mado

arrangonanto to arrango a nooting place and time for the

indorant and for Abst.

tho infomant stated tht in

consistence with MARCI"s arrangenents ALEX and FRANK

PARTARO thovad up at tho pre arranged wooting plece ot

the pro-azranged time in order to conduct the discussion

with the informant concerning gambling matters in the

Firet Ward.

Informant ndvised that on the occasion o2

this noating ALst made it vory clear to him that no one

could operato a handbool es crap gano in tho First Ward

of the City of Chicago without the "Or" of GUS AlEX.

Intormant deseribed PAT MARCI as being a secretary of

Alderman JOIN D'ARCO of the Fiset Ward of the City of Chicago.

137.4

S0Jt.0119

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 24

---

## Page 25

CG 92-373

WEE:plb

Zurich, Decembes 23, 1958

Rome, in 1956

Zurich on January 2,

London on December

Zurich on January

6,

1958

1958

1904

Greece on January 3, 1958

Rome in 1958

Another stamp indicates that on January 19, 1058,

he was processed by Immigration and Naturalization Bervice

and adnitted to this country at Detroit, Michigan, on

January 13, 1938. There are several other stamps placed

In this passport on the pages maried "Visas" which are

Illegible.

Chief Inspector JOIN PEARCE, Metropolitan Police,

New Seotland Yard, London, England, advised on January 23,

1959, that thero was no record of GUS ALEX Or MARIANNE ALEX

3D the Central Records Office of Now Scotland Yard.

There

was a record; however, indicating that GUS and MARIANNE ALIK

deit london Airport on becember ze, 1956, for Zurich, Switzer

Land, which indicates these people did visit the United lingdom.

The Swiss Central Police Bureau advised by letter

dated harch S, 1959, that GUS All appeared at the Hotel

male lac, turich suaterland, on Docember 22, 1958, with

a woman alloged to be his wife and loft the following

for St. Moritz, where they remnined at the Palace Hotel until

January 5, 1959,

During thair stay there,

they made no special

contacte.

They

returned to zurich, where

they ogain stayed at

the Hotel Baur-gun lac on January 5, 1959, and loit on January 6,

1959, by als for Vienna, Austria. The Swiss Police furnished

coples of the two hotel registrations at the Hotel Baur-au-lac,

and it was noted that GUS ALRK indicated that his profession

was "salesnan".

The following Information regarding the subject's

activities in Vienna, Austria, was furnished under date of

February o

Vienna recent one soloe president,

•141

92-3182:81

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 25

---

## Page 26

CG 92-373

VER: 210

GUS ALEX, bora January 4, 1914, in Chicago, American

citizen,

and his wife, MARIANNE RYAN ALE, arrived In Vienna,

Austria,

on

January 6, 1959, and registered in the Hotel

Imperial

carrying

at

15 Kaerncherring, Vienna I, Austria. ALtA va

United States passport nunber

730.270, 8000 42621

July 12,

1959.

upon arrive. at the hotel, he listed his

permanent address as 9353 South Spaulding Avenue, Evergreen

Park, Illlnots, USA. Ule double roon at the hotel had been

reserved by the Drake Travel Service through the "Cosmos"

Travel Service in Vienna.

Perconnel at the Hotel Imperial were shown photo.

ganpha of GUS and MARIANNE ALEX and were able to readily

Identily these photographs. They, however, could not furnich

any information indicating any unusual activities on the part

of either GUS Or MARIANNE ALT while they remained at the

hotel.

The couple appoated to engagein the usual aight

socing and shopping activities la Vienna and there was no

Information that they had roceived any guests at the hotel.

Both on January

8 and January 9, 1959, GUS ALEX placed

telophone calls. to tho lotel "Baux! in Zurich, Switherland.

GUS and MARIANNE ALl departed Vlonna On January 9,

1959, for an undisclosed destimation.:

CLERGES CLOT O% the Prefecture of Polico, Paris,

france, advised on february so, 1959, Chat Auty and hig

vife registered at the Hotel Ritz, 259, 15 Place: Vendone, Paris,

on Jenuary 9, 1959, and departed on January 15, 1959. They

occupied Room 110 and used their American passports for

scenturication at the ring ot registration.

CLOT. advised

that ALEX was not engaged in any unusual activities while

in. Parts, and s0 for as could be determined, did not make

any contacts with Paria underworld figures.

142

592-3182-81

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 26

---

## Page 27

CG 92-373

VER: p1b/pl1

CG T-19 stated that ALEX planned to go to Canada

on tensionior disting me me meet may mmm, 1050

and that he also gave indications that he was planning a

trip to Winona, Minnesota. The informant stated that he

believes that the Alexes plan to drive

to Canada to visit

SAM ALEX, brother of GUS, who is residing in Berrien County,

michigan, near Cassopolis, Michigan, under the name of SAM

TAYLOR.

CG T-29, above, advised that he has learned that

the ALEXes had planned to revisit St. Moritz,

Switzerland,

which they visited last December and January, and to take

RITA VOGEL, the 14 year old daughter of top. hoodlum EDDY

VOGEL, with them. The informant learned, however, from

ANDREA BADRUTT,

owner, Palace Hotel,

St. Moritz,

Switzerland,

that due to the inquiry of the Swiss Central Police

concerning ALEX's activities as set out above, he would not

honor the AlEXes reservations at the Palace Hotel when

they arrived this coming winter.

Rochester, Minnesota

As has been reported above under the caption "Status

of Health"

, information was developed that GUS and MARIANNE

ALeX Visited Mayo Clinic and stayed at the Kahler Hotel in

Rochester, Minnesota,

from June 14,

1959, through June 18,

1959, They occupied Suite

1066-68.

Cassopolis, Michigan

•cu. I-19, above,

advised that he knows definitely

that at least on

two occasions during the past summer ALEX

and

his wife visited the farm of SAM ALEX, the brother of

GUS ALEX, which is located near Cassopolis, Michigan.

It

is noted that information has been received from CG I-15

indicating that SAM ALDX is a trigger man for the Chicago

underworld and that he

stays out of the limelight in

Chicago by residing in Cassopolis, Michigan,

under the

name

Of SAl TAILOR and comes into Chicago only whenever it is

necessary to organize a "hit" for the Chicago hoodlums.

- 149-

- 3?82

NW 68262 Docld:32291370 Page 27

---

