JEK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90129-10083
RECORD SERIES: DL
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-1280-80
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/01/1964
“PAGES: 36 cr
SUBJECTS :
MINUTEMEN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/15/1998 L
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: © MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 1

22


BB oT

fee

O

OPTIONAL FORM NU. .0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

0: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261) DATE: 4/1/64
FROM: SAC, DALLAS (105-1280) (P)
SUBJECT: "MINUTEMEN" ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
INFORMATION CONCERNING be
(INTERNAL SECURITY) HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SPICE ye
00:KANSAS CITY BY atichidue Deets
Re Dallas letter to Bureau, 2/14/64; Bureau airtel
sto Denver, et al, 2/24/64; Kansas City airtel to Bureau, 3/3/64;
Oklahoma City letter to Dallas, 3/11/64.

Investigation conducted to date thragh reliable con-
tacts, informants and sources has reflected no evidence of any
organized activity on the part of subject organization in the
Dallas Division, Therefore, no report is being submitted at this
time; however, investigation is continuing in an effort to deter-
mine specifically whether captioned organization is active or has
adherents in this territory making efforts to establish units,

There follows the results of investigation conducted
throughout the Resident Agency territories as to the existence
of captioned organization,

The following investigation was conducted by SA
WILLIAM R. JENKINS:

AT AMARILLO, TEXAS

On 2/7/64, JACK SEALE, Regional Coordinator, John Birch
Seciety, 319 Oak Street, advised as far as he knew there were no
members of the above organization anywhere in the Panhandle area
of Texas. He advised that a few members of the John Birch Society
had received some of their literature but stated as far as he knew
this literature was unsolicited or merely for study purposes, jc
advised he would notify SA JENKINS should he receive any informat2
indicating the above organization had any members in the Amarillo
area,

e t td
td/ Bereau (RM) 7 - Dallas
2 - Kansas City (62-7797)-(RM) 7 (2 - DL 105-1686)
2 Oklahoma City (100-6949) (RM (3 - DL 105-1280)
if louston (62-1802) (RM) . (2 - DL 157-218) |
nM SBI Paso (8M) RLW: rmb cs («
1 = Sap Antonio (105-2356) (RM) (16) (c ak Fe

70 5- 12$0-£6

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 2


DL 165-1286
FRANK CHAPMAN, PD, Hamlin, Texas 1/28/64

The following were contacted by SA DEL D, DRAKE, JR.:

LOYD. MATHEWS, Detective, PD, Paris, 1/24/64
Texas

JIM N. THOMPSON, County Attorney, Paris, 1/24/64
Texas

Vv. E, STEWART, Vice President, Liberty 2/4/64
National Bank, Paris, Texas

J, E, WILKINS, PCI, Parise, Texas 2/4/64

MELVIN THEILMAN, PCI, Paris, Texas 2/4/64

. DL-124-C, Paris, Texas (identity known 2/4/64

to Bureau)

STANLEY RIGGS, PCI, Paris, Texas 2/4/64

HOYT IVEY, Sheriff; Fannin County, 2/3/64
Bonham, Texas i

oO. R. MC KISSOCK, Chief of Police, 2/3/64

Bonham, Texas

R. A. HULEN, Sheriff, Red River County, 2/8/64
Clarksville, Texas

tT. L, HOPKINS, Sheriff, Delta County,» 1/23/64
Cooper, Texas

TRUMAN RATLIFF, Delta County Attorney, 1/23/64 i
Cooper, Texas

BENNIE WARREN, Chief of Police, 1/23/64 i
Greenville, Texas ;
BILL PEMBERTON, Hunt County Attorney 2/6/64 |
Greenville, Texas ‘
PAUL RAY JONES, Sheriff, Hopkins 1/23/64
County, Sulphur Springs, Texas !
JOHN TITTLE, Sheriff, Franklin County, 2/7/64
Mt. Vernon, Texas : i
BERT MC KEOWN, Sheriff, Rains County, 2/6/64 i

. Emory, Texas
The following wers. contacted by SA JOE B. ABERNATHY :
H, L, EVANS, Sheriff, Kaufman County, 1/28/64

Texas i
Deputy O, 0, PICKERING, Navarro County, 2/3/64

Texas
Chief BILL ONSTOTT, Corstana, Texas, PD 2/3/64
OBIE FREEMAN, Chief on Police, ened 2/7/64

Texas a.

a3e

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 3


DL 105-1280 Sat

permitted interview on advice of his attorneys and has even
declined to interview by parole authorities.

‘On. 3/17/64 , ELLSWORTH advised MASEN is still await-
ing trial and MASEN's trial will probably commence about’ the
first of May, 1964,

Patrolman PRESTON SNOGA, Irving, Texas, PD, was con-
tacted at his residence, 2517 DeWitt Street, Irving, and fur-
nished the following information to SA WIEHL on 2/11/64;

SNOGA advised he had known JOHN MASEN since approxi-=
mately. February, 1963, and that during thé last few months of
this acquaintanceship had furnished information ‘concerning
MASEN's activities to ATTU, Dallas, Texas. MASEN’s activities;
he advised, included changing semi-automatic ‘weapons to fully
automatic. weapons. He advised MASEN isstrictly in the gun |
business for the money he can make. MASEN is. full of a lot of to
“big talk" which he never substantiated. MASEN told SNOGA he
had been contacted by Cuban revolutionists for the purpose of
supplying guns and ammunition. MASEN also advised ‘him that
"Minutemen" and Jehn Birchers in the Dallas area had.contacted
him for the purpose. of buying ammunition, MASEN never mentioned
the names or locations of these individuals, MASEN never advised
SNOGA that he was himself a member of a John. Birch Society or
. "Minutemen", It.was SNOGA's. impression that MASEN was not a

member of either of these organizations, if, in fact; he was in
contact with them. This impression was based primarily on ‘the
fact that MASEN was more interested in money than in political
beliefs. i

On 2/28/64, SA JAMES P, HOSTY, JR. conducted the :
following investigation: :

> DONALD G. KEMP advised that he had no further, informa~
tion. concerning the activities of. "Minutemen" type organizations
in the Dallas area, KEMP advised ever since the assassination
of former President JOHN. FITZGERALD KENNEDY.on 11/22/63, these i
individuals have been extremely. quiet and it. is not known whether i
they have’ ceased their activity, or they are merely restricting i
their activities following the assassination of President KENNEDY.

It is noted in referenced Kansas City airtel to Bureau
dated 3/3/64, reference is made to the names of WILLIAM HENRY
JOHNSON or EARL JOHNSON and MORRIS TANNAHILL, aka. JOHN. MORRIS,
who may be "Minutemen" in the Dallas, Texas, area. |

=~. 9-6

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 4


_DL 105-1280

‘thereafter -have photograph. exhibited to T, V. STEPHENS, Altus,
Oklahoma, to determine if TANNEHILL is the indi¥idual who con-
tacted STEPHENS, Furnish Dallas results of this contact.

KANSAS. CITY.

AT KANSAS City, Will consider reinterview with JERRY
BROOKS. for @.purpose.of obtaining more: identifying “information
concerning ‘WILLIAM HENRY JOHNSON or EARL JOHNSON, Dallas. -

DALLAS

AT LUFKIN, .TEXAS. Will expeditiously recontact
Sheriff LEON JONES, Angelina County, and Mr. A. C. CHILDS in

an effort to determine 12 local ammunition storage may have
"Minutemen" connections. ~

AT DALLAS, TEXAS, -Will coptact former DL-18-S for
information he may be able to furnish at this time relative to ata

the possibfe activity of captioned Srganization in the Dallas fe
Division, fies

- 12 -

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 5


O 0

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT -
MEMORANDUM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62~107261) DATE: 4/1/64
FROM: SAC, DALLAS (105-1280) (P)
SUBJECT: "MINUTEMEN" ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(INTERNAL SECURITY) HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

(INTERNAL SECURITY) DATE aig>_ BY SP16si lap

00:KANSAS CITY 200,590

i Re Dallas letter to Bureau, 2/14/64; Bureau airtel
4 to Denver, et al, 2/24/64; Kansas City airtel to Bureau, 3/3/64;
Oklahoma City letter to Dallas, 3/11/64.

Investigation conducted to date thragh reliable con-
tacts, informants and sources has reflected no evidence of any
organized activity on the part of subject organization in the
Dallas Division. Therefore, no report is being submitted at this
time; however, investigation is continuing in an effort to deter-
mine specifically whether captioned organization is active or has
adherents in this territory making efforts to establish units.

There follows the results of investigation conducted
throughout the Resident Agency territories as to the existence
of captioned organization, :

The following investigation was conducted by SA
WILLIAM R, JENKINS: eeeaae
ee ci pak
AT AMARILLO, TEXAS a yor

Srreeneracreeitacencrereeiicrea aA
ya

Ton 2/7/64, Jag SEALE, Regional Coordinator, John Birch
Society, 319 Oak Street} advised#as far as he knew there were no
members of the above organization anywhere in the Panhandle area
of Texas. He advised that a few members of the John Birch Society
had received some of their literature but stated as far as he knew
this literature was unsolicited or merely for study purposes, He
advised he would notify SA JENKINS should he receive any informatic»
indicating the above organization had any members in the Amarillo

area, act F A eS
/- Bureau (RM) ° 7 - Dallas Vv
. tuff wansas City (62-7797) (RM) . (2 = DL 105-1686)
fa Oklahoma City (100-6949) (RM) (8- DL 105-1280) wd
. ‘4, [le=-Houston (62-1802) (RM) (2° - DL 157-218) oss
me ~ El Paso (RM) : RLW: rmb ‘ 7 :
"1 -~ San Antonio (105-2356) (RM) (16) ant
: i. yw

keane

[0&2 /2 GO ~Fo

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 6


5
Ch

BL 105-1280
FRANK CHAPMAN, PD, Hamlin, Texas i 1/28/64

The following were contacted by SA DEL D. DRAKE, JR.:

LOYD. MATHEWS, Detective, PD, Paris, 1/24/64
Texas
JIM N, “THOMPSON, County Attorney, Paris, 1/24/64
Texas
Vv... BE, STEWART, Vice President, Liberty 2/4/64
National Bank, Paris, Texas
t4 J, E, WILKINS, PCI, Paris, Texas — 2/4/64
iA MELVIN THEILMAN, PCI, Paris, Texas 2/4/64
aaa DL-124-C, Paris, Texas (identity known 2/4/64
to Bureau)
te STANLEY RIGGS, PCI, Paris, Texas 2/4/64
HOYT IVEY, Sheriff, Fannin County, 2/3/64 4
Bonham, Texas : i
O. R. MC KISSOCK, Chief of Police, 2/3/64

Bonham, Texas i : aw
R. A. HULEN, Sheriff,.Red River County, 2/8/64 ~ I
Clarksville, Texas

T. L. HOPKINS, Sheriff, Delta County, 1/23/64
Cooper, Texas i
TRUMAN RATLIFF, Delta County Attorney, 1/23/64 '
Cooper, Texas i
BENNIE WARREN, Chief of Police, 1/23/64 H
Greenville, Texas ‘ i
BILL PEMBERTON, Hunt County Attorney 2/6/64 i
Greenville, Texas eeetceey
PAUL RAY JONES, Sheriff, Hopkins 1/23/64 _
County, Sulphur Springs, Texas 4
JOHN TITTLE, Sheriff, Franklin County, 2/7/64 :
Mt. Vernon, Texas é 7 i
BERT MC KEOWN, Sheriff, Rains isianat ed 2/6/64 :

Emory, Texas

The following were contacted by SA JOE B. ABERNATRY:

H, L, EVANS, Sheriff, Kaufman County, 1/28/64

Texas :
Deputy. 0. O,. PICKERING, Navarro County, 2/3/64 i

Texas : i
Chief BILL ONSTOTT, Corstana, Texas, PD 2/3/64
OBIE. FREEMAN, Chief _ Police, Ennis, 2/7/64

Texas :

eee Be

Q

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 7



DL. 105-1280 aceritene

permitted interview on advice of his attorneys and ‘has even
declined:.to interview by parole authorities.

‘On. 3/17/64, ELLSWORTH advised MASEN is ‘still await-
ing. trial. and MASEN' 5: trial will probably commence about: the
first of May, 1964,

Watroisan PRESTON. SNOGA, Irving, Texas,.PD, was con-
tacted at his residence, 2517 Dewitt Street, Irving, and fur-
nished the following information to SA WIEHL on 2/11/64:

SNOGA advised ‘he had known JOHN HASEN since: approxi-
mately. February,.1963, and.that during thé last few months of
this acquaintanceship had furnished information’ concerning
MASEN'’s activities to ATTU, Dallas, Texas. MASEN‘s activities;
he advised, included changing semi-automatic weapons to fully
automatic: weapons, He advised MASEN isstrictly in the gun
business for the money he can make, MASEN’is. full of a lot of
"big talk" which he never substantiated. MASEN told SNOGA he
had beén contacted ‘by Cuban. revolutionists for the purpose. of
supplying guns. and ammunition. MASEN also advised him that —
"Minutemen" and John Birchers in the Dallas area had contacted
him for the purpose, of buying ammunition, MASEN never. mentioned
the names or locations of these individuals. “MASEN never advised
SNOGA that he was himself ‘a member. of a John Birch Society or

."Minutemen",. It.was SNOGA'’s impression that: MASEN was not a
member of either of these organizations, if, in fact, he was in

contact with them. This impression was based primarily on ‘the
fact that MASEN was more interested in money ‘than in political

beliefs.
on 2/28/64, SA JAMES P, HOSTY, JR. conducted the
following investigation;

DONALD @. Pane advised that he had no (further) informa
tion concerning the activities ofa"Minutemen”™ type organizations
in the Dallas area,\ (KEMP) advised ever since the assassination
of, former. President JOHN. FITZGERALD KENNEDY on 11/22/63, these
individuals have been extremely quiet and it is ‘not known whether
‘they have ceased their activity, or they are merely restricting
their activities following. the assassination of President KENNEDY &

It is noted in reférenced Kansas City airtel to Bureau
dated 3/3/64, réferencé is made. to the names of WILLIAM.‘HENRY
JOHNSON .or EARL JOHNSON and MORRIS TANNAHILL, aka. JOHN MORRIS,
who may be "Minutemen" in the Dallas, Texas, area.

-9e

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 8


.DL 105-1280

‘thereafter:have photograph exhibited to T. V. STEPHENS, Altus,
Oklahoma, to determine if TANNEHILL is the individual who con=
tacted. STEPHENS, Furnish Dallas results of this contact.

KANSAS. CITY
AT KANSAS. CITY, Will consider reinterview with JERRY

BROOKS for. the purpose of obtaining more “Adentifying ‘information
concerning WILLIAM HENRY JOHNSON or EARL JOHNSON, Dallas.

DALLAS
AT LUFKIN TEXAS, Will expeditiously recontact

‘Sherif, LEON-JONES, Angelina County, and Mr. A, C, CHILDS. in
an effort to determine if local ammunition storage may have
"Minutemen" connections.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. Will contact former DL-18-S for i
information he may be able to furnish at this time relative to |
the possibpe activity of ‘captioned. organization in the Dallas p
Division, i

- 12° -

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 9


OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
MEMORANDUM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261) DATE: 4/1/64
FROM: SAC, DALLAS (105-1280) (P)
SUBJECT: "MINUTEMEN" ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

00: KANSAS CITY

(INTERNAL SscunrTy) ©) HEREIN iS UNCLASSIFIED
Hl K

DATE BY Secasulaur
ec, fe)

Re Dallas letter to Bureau, 2/14/64; Bureau airtel
to Denver, et al, 2/24/64; Kansas City airtel to Bureau, 3/3/64;
Oklahoma City letter to Dallas, 3/11/64.

Investigation conducted to date thragh reliable con-
tacts, informants and sources has reflected no evidence of any
organized activity on the part of subject organization in the
Dallas Division. Therefore, no report is being submitted at this
time; however, investigation is continuing in an effort to deter-
mine specifically whether captioned organization is active or has
adherents in this territory making efforts to establish units.

There follows the results of investigation conducted
throughout the Resident Agency territories as to the existence
¢ of captioned organization,

The following investigation was conducted by SA
WILLIAM R, JENKINS:

AT AMARILLO, TEXAS

On 2/7/64, JACK SEALE, Regional Coordinator, John Birch
Society, 319 Oak Street, advised as far as he knew there were no
members of the above organization anywhere in the Panhandle area
of Texas. He advised that a few members of the John Birch Society
had received some of their literature but stated as far as he knew
this literature was unsolicited or merely for study purposes. Hs
advised he would notify SA JENKINS should he receive any informatic
indicating the above organization had any members in the Amarillo

area.
2 (/orenn (RM) : ve 7 - Dallas
gheg Kansas City (62-7797) (RM (2. - DL 105-1686)
i. Oklahoma City (100-6949) (RM) (8° - DL 105-1280)
t ~- Houston (62-1802) (RM) : (2 - DL 157-218)

~ El Paso (RM) RLW: rmb
~- San Antonio (105-2356) (RM) (16)

Jb5- 1a §b-F0
NW 64578 Docid:32335692 Page 10 rN. paceeacics


DL 105-1280
FRANK CHAPMAN, PD, Hamlin, Texas 1/28/64

The following were. contacted by SA DEL D, DRAKE, JR.:

LOYD MATHEWS, Detective, PD, Paris, 1/24/64
Texas

JIM N. THOMPSON, County Attorney, Paris, 1/24/64
Téxas

Vv. -E. STEWART, Vice President, Liberty 2/4/64
National Bank, Paris, Texas

J, E, WILKINS, PCI, Paris, Texas 2/4/64

MELVIN THEILMAN, PCI, Paris, Texas 2/4/64

. DL-124-C, Paris, Texas ‘(identity known 2/4/64

to Bureau)

STANLEY RIGGS, PCI, Paris, Texas - 2/4/64

HOYT IVEY, Sheriff; Fannin County, 2/3/64
Bonham, Texas ‘

0. R. MC KISSOCK, Chief of Police, 2/3/64

Bonham, Texas
R. A. HULEN, Sheriff, Red River County, 2/8/64
Clarksville, Texas

T. L, HOPKINS, Sheriff, Delta County, 1/23/64 {
Cooper, Texas ‘|
TRUMAN RATLIFF, Delta county Attorney, 1/23/64
Cooper, Texas
BENNIE WARREN, Chief of Police, 1/23/64 :
Greenville, Texas i
BILL PEMBERTON, Hunt County Attorney 2/6/64 y
Greenville, Texas
PAUL RAY JONES, Sheriff, Hopkins : 1/23/64
County, Sulphur: Springs, Texas.
JOHN TITTLE, Sheriff, Franklin County, 2/7/64.
Mt. Vernon, Texas
BERT MC KEOWN, Sheriff, Rains County, 2/6/64

- Emory, Texas

The following were contacted by SA JOE B, ABERNATEY 5

H. L. EVANS, Sheriff, Kaufman County, 1/28/64
Texas
Deputy O, 0, PICKERING, Navarro County, 2/3/64
Texas q
Chief BILL ONSTOTT, Corstana, Texas, PD 2/3/64 i
OBIE FREEMAN, Chief of Police, Ennis, 2/7/64 ‘
Texas a :
23-6

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 11


oF
CD

DL. 105-1280 :

permitted interview on advice.of his attorneys and has even
declined to interview by parole authorities.

‘On..3/17/64, ELLSVORTH advised MASEN is still await=
ing trial. and MASEN 's trial will probably commence about’ the
first of May, 1964.

Patrolman: PRESTON SNOGA, Irving, Texas,. PD, was con-
tacted at his residence, 2517 Dewitt Street, Irving, and fur-
_ nished the following information to SA WIEHL on 2/11/64;

SNOGA advised he had known JOHN. MASEN since’ approxi-
mately. February. 1963, and that during the last few months of
this acquaintanceship had furnished information concerning
MASEN's activities to ATTU, Dallas, Texas; MASEN’s activities;
he advised, included changing semi-automatic weapons to fully
automatic weapons, He advised MASEN isstrictly in the gun
business for the money he can make. MASEN is. full of a lot of
“big talk" which he never substantiated. MASEN told SNOGA he
had be6n contacted by Cuban. revolutionists for the ‘purpose of
supplying guns. and ammunition. /MASEN also advised ‘him that
"Minutemen" and Jehn Birchers in the Dallas-area had contacted
him for the purpose. of buying ammunition. MASEN never mentioned
the names or. locations of these individuals, “MASEN never advised
SNOGA that he ‘was himself a member of a John.Birch Society or
. "Minutemen"... It.was SNOGA's. impression that MASEN was not a

member of either of these organizations, if, in fact; he was in
contact with them. This impression was based primarily on ‘the
fact that MASEN was more interested in money than in political
beliefs. .
: On 2/28/64, SA JAMES P, HOSTY, JR. conducted’ the
following investigation:”

DONALD G, KEMP advised that he had no further informa~
tion concerning the activities of "Minutemen" type organizations
in the Dallas area, KEMP advised ever since the assassination
of former President JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY on 11/22/63, these
individuals have been extremely quiét and it is mot. known whether
they have ceased their activity, or they are merely restricting
their activities following ‘the assassination of President KENNEDY.

It is noted in referenced Kansas City airtel to Bureau
dated 3/3/64, reference is made to the names of WILLIAM HENRY
JOHNSON .or EARL JOHNSON and MORRIS TANNAHILL, aka. JOHN MORRIS,
who may be "Minutemen” in the Dallas, Texas, area.

=9-

‘il

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 12


ed

DL 105-1280

thereafter have photograph exhibited to T, V, STEPHENS, Altus,
Oklahoma, to. determine if TANNEHILL is the individual who con-
tacted STEPHENS, Furnish Dallas results of this.contact.:

KANSAS CITY

/AT KANSAS. CITY. Will consider reinterview with JERRY
BROOKS for the. purpose of obtaining more identifying information
concerning ‘WILLIAM HENRY JOHNSON or EARL JOHNSON, Dallas.

DALLAS
AT LUFKIN, TEXAS. Will-expeditiously recontact

~ Sheriff, LEON JONES, Angelina County, and Mr. A. C. CHILDS in

an effort to determine if local ammunition storage may have
"Minutemen" connections. :

AT.DALLAS, TEXAS, Will contact former. DL-18-S for ie
information he may. be able to furnish at this time relative to Y

the possibfe activity of captioned organization in the Dallas
Division, :

~12-

NW 64578 Docld:32335692 Page 13
