AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Date:
Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
CIA
104-10332-10021
JFK: CIA HRG
PROJFILES-DECLASS STDS
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

ARRB-CIA age INSTALLATION
00/00/ w/,4/,997
22 / 7

ARRB ISSUE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SECRET

POSTPONED IN FULL
02/15/00

04/02/03
L

JFK-M-17:F22 2000.02.15.09:49:27:420044: AT THE ARRB
MEETING OF 11/17/97 THE BOARD APPROVED PROTECTION OF

THIS INFORMATION UNTIL 2017.

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 1


OIM-97-0010
14 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: (U) Deputy Director for Administration
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: 1 Required Protection of JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)
las CIA Facility

1. JET This memorandum is submitted pursuant to the
decision by the Assassination Records Review Board (hereafter

in the context of a CIA facility and the Board’s subsequent

decision on 17 November 1997 to reconside his i e
provides additional information as to why[| ark acts mio |
Lorcee sry _Jas a CIA facility must be protected from public

disclosure and hence the cover of this clandestine facility
maintained.* zs

ry

2. (U) As a preliminary matter, I would respectfully ask
the Board and staff to note the classified nature of this
document, to limit access to those individuals properly cleared,

» 3}. The documents at issue contain the term

however the actual name of the CIA facility a’

nterchangeably.

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)
CL BY: 0700265

CL REASON: 1.5(c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FM: LOC 5-82

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 2


“SECRET

SUBJECT: Required Protéction of

as CIA Facility

the Agency’s most
word material,*

? 46+ Pursuant to clas:

Central Intelligence,
SECRET level.

> 46 Because of
States has authorig

[_ f1s0 houses the cra’s[___________]which would

the site
and

ly the very
critical

Yrovide the only

basis for continuity of operations should disaster befall CfA headquarters.

In addition and because of the security offered, the|

serves a similar

role for the National Security Council and the Office of the Management and

Budget .

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 3

(g) (21 1D)


K Act 5 (q)(2){D)

SEGRE

5
SUBJECT: os Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

element in our foreign signals intellig
principal location for training and c
engaged in highly clandestine techni
activities. The facilities at
include:

ce effort, and a
ferencing of officers

al intelligence collection
in support of these efforts

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 4


SEGRE

suBJEecT: (gf Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

¢ members and staff from the Senate Select Committee
on Intelligence.

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 5


SUBJECT: {8f Required Protection o£

tographs,

hpport
iission of
the CIA and the United States. phse toa
covert foreign national asset in message
from the CIA Chief of Station in military
and diplomatic representatives i element in
that effort. Moreover, it is ¢ physical

attack because of the proximify of uncont/fdlled pub]iq/ roads and
spaces. Accordingly, i i in
paragraph 6 below, | no matter
insi it release

es,

irreparable

ion and

t support
of the nation’s le

tral

chosen to be the primary[ given its locatign,
communications, information services, and life_suppoyt
capabilities. Needless to say, the fact that[ | is not an
officially recognized CIA facility adds a dimension gf secrecy
which will be needed to enable the DCI to continue his work
during any emergency situation. Additionally, activ
consideration is being given to also designating as the

5

—SEGREF

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 6


HEK Act 5 (g) (2) {D)

— ff

SUBJECT: w Required Protection of Zefsil i

— “AL Li

agency’s primaryL__ we Yo 7 T | Biven|the
amount of time, money and/resouyces whigh will be expended to
insure that the facility is mgintained/in sugh/a way cin it will

be prepared for any erfiergen situatign, it Would ¢ertainlly be in
the best interests,6f the YS Governmgént not/td permit any!
official affiliayion, no/matter how/minor, /off [and the|CIA.

ee E The preceding desgriptions /of/ongoing and planned
activitiés at[ _}presents, I believe, ah imtuitive senjse pf the
damage to national security wifich would/foflow from a llinking of
[| _ with CIA. In sum, the cgnduct of dovdrt communications and
support activities as well ds the presencfé of officers who Will
soon be serving overseas ufder cover jn Highly sensitive
positions can not take plAce at a fagilify linked to CIA. But
there are some very specific damage Aissy¥es that I wish fo
highlight and they inclade:

e +S} Serious —_ Immediate/Impairment to Physical and
ourLf? fT ocover
maintain a relatively low profile in the'
community and a veyy low profile outside of|the
immediate area. IfL___]becafhe recognized as a CIA
facility, the increased visibility and scrutiny would
place employees, facilities; and daily operations at
greater risk. In sum, [ _Jwoula become an easy “targe
of opportunity” for the media, foreign counter-
intelligence agents, terrorist and militia activities,
demonstrators, and emotionally unstable individuals.
Facts, examples, and specific concerns include:

allows us

NW 65360 Docid:32404534 Page 7


—SEGRET—

SUBJECT: {8) Required Protection of GFK Act 5 (g) (21(D
as CIA Facility

maintains security through a low profile.’ In the
past in the United States, identification of CIA
facilities have led to a number of surreptitious
entries, bombings, and physical disruptions.
Simply stated, CIA is a target for both hostile
individuals and organizations;*

e On the individual level and in the past three
years, s experienced an increase in_securit:
incidents inclu a physical breach: of
compound security, two ct package incidents,
and additional unsolicited cont
turn-around" incidents;”

7 () as detailed on the attached annotated photographs, the array of
communications equipment and its proximity to public spaces and roads is
clear. For example,

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

487 The current Kasi prosecution provides ample evidence of the risks
posed by the public identification of CIA domestic facilities. Any individual
intent upon seeking retribution for perceived wrongs quite naturally seeks a
target providing the largest possible public notice and while CIA headquarters
is an excellent target, a covert facility is even a better target, anda
covert facility supporting the foreign espionage activities of the CIA is the
best possible target for a political and public statement.

° \e) The breach of compound security was by an out-of-state vehicle which
followed an employee through a remote gate and the driver had no credible
explanation for their actions; the incident is considered suspicious and
unexplained. The suspect package incidents include a box which was placed
(not dropped) next to our facility which we believe was intended to test and
thus observe our response to suspicious packages. Gate turn-arounds number 8-
10 per month and include only those vehicles which ignore clear signs that
they are entering a classified government facility but proceed in any event to
our gate; it is instructive to note that, very few of these individuals state

7

-SEGRET

NW 65360 Docid:32404534 Page 8


—SEGREF

SUBJECT: i) Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

group, and, second,
individuals living neg that we were
communicating with UP

penetrate the fence
the opinion that a
which exploded at federal
building could do Substantial damage to the
Agency’s communications equipment nd could kill
numerous federal/employees at[ __|from outside the
fence line in circumstances we do not control and
could not prev¢nt.

or imply that they know that[__ is a CIA facility and, hence, it would appear
that our cover, in fact, is quite good.

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 9


—SEERET

SUBJECT: ws Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

K Act 5 (g) (2) (D)
. 5.2) Likely Future Compromise of Covert Employees’ i
Overseas Assignments: As discussed above, CLA

employees involved in communications,
intelligence collection, and human _in
collection train and operate at exagt reason
that it provides a secure environment disw#ssociated firom

identification of US citizens who appgar to fe ordinairy
public servants or private business
actuality, clandestine intelligenc
stated, the identification of thi
label any and every individual
intelligence officer and thus gubstantiaJly negate their
operational ability if not p i ives in jeopardy.

Simply
with CIA jwill

-- whether they be/for_
officials -- have value only as
long as their identity is secret. The public disclosure
of the fact that would serve as such an
which could come from a general compromise of|
CIA facility plus subsequent visual surveillance -- would
negate Agency planning in this regard, vitiate
expenditures, and leave the Agency with» few realistic
options for survivability. We must assume that any

the President or Cabine

v0 We know from captured STASI (the former intelligence service of East

Germany) and clandestinely-acquired KGB files that substantial resources have
been directed at such identifications. Typically, a suspect American will be
surveilled for some time in order to identify his or her target and
cooperating foreign nationals. To identify a communicator is one of the
highest priorities since it provides a possible entrée to cryptographic
compromise as well as an opportunity to “roll-up” or identify the numerous
human intelligence collection officers who rely on that particular
communicator to transmit information back to the United States.

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 10


SEGRE

SUBJECT: (8) Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

5 (g) (2) (D)

. WW)
Technical Collection Platforms: I
foregoing physical threat to our

facilities (e.g., the potential/fe deg

satellite dishes and transmit,

ZG
act), the disclosure off VK t

troy towers,
ilities by terrorist!

significant opportunity/for any number of foreign nations
s and communications intelligence
e. While the scope and

1 of this memorandum does not permit a

on, I am convinced that this disclosure
[| a target of hostile foreign intelligence

would make
services.

JEK Act 5

The official term for such procurements is
hich means that the tangible items purchased cannot be traced
only to a non-sensitive_government nC’
assigned undercover to
then it would be most imprudent to carry a persona
telephone which could easily be traced to CIA: At a minimum, that officer
would be subject to foreign counter-intelligence surveillance and all of his
or her contacts compromised (i.e., identified and neutralized) .

For example, if an officer is

10

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 ‘Page 11


— SEGRE

SUBJECT: {8f Required Protéction
as CIA Facility

apability:

. Loss_of
s often used as a conferenfe faciflity not only

by Agency groups, but also by o iS Goveynment
organizations. For example,

Accord Talks was held at
discreet location in which Department of
officials, to include two ambassadors, and the military
could secretly discuss strategic/planning/ without undue
attention (media coverage). If/CIA affiliation is
acknowledged in any way, ‘value to fhe entire US
Government is greatly diminished. Additjionally, its
value to the Agency is also diminished jn that personnel
from OED and other operational elements/who use this
facility would be running a greater ri of exposure and
cover compromise if they visited Since access roads
can be monitored and registration lists,and/or luggage
tags can be obtained at hotels used to accommodate some
of these visitors, their association with the CIA would
be much harder to protect.

e 49° Heightened Scrutiny of Classified Mission: For more
than 40 years,
have been a good "neighbor" and have developed close
working relationships throughout the town. To confirm
what many have suspected but could never prove (or what a
few “knew” but willingly protected) will have a negative

121

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 12


SECRET

SUBJECT: {8} Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

impact on our credibility and will create an “open
season” for the local media and others as they quite

i naturally attempt to learn any and all aspects of our
mission -- those clandestine officers who could come and
go previously with little notice will now be a highly
visible target.”?

money.

8. {87 In summary,
release of the term will create
an affiliation of and the CIA, would cause ,major Gisruptions
to CIA operations, possible physical harm to CIA fad¢ilities and
personnel, and hence identifiable and serious damag¢
national security of the United States. Accordingly,
respectfully request that the Board defer release o
information. ‘In doing so, I am mindful of the Board’s mission

it is my considered judgmé

ter tt is not unreasonable to believe that the loss of covdr for|___|would
require a five fold increase in physical security personnel at[__]and even
then security could not be ensured given the proximity of the facility to
public spaces and roads.

12

NW 65360 Docid:32404534 Page 13


SECRET

SUBJECT: -+ST Required Protéction of
as CIA Facility

and the necessity for the American public to have the fullest
possible disclosure regarding the assassination of President
Kennédy, however, I believe that this reference is not relevant
to the public’s understanding and that disclosure would cause
harms significantly disproportionate to any public benefit.

9. (U) I£ the Board should have any questions with regard
to this matter, I have asked Lee Strickland, who serves as Chief
of the Agency’s Information Review Group, to be available to the
Board in order to provide such additional classified or
unclassified information as might be required.

Richard D. Calder

(S)__ Attachment.
Annotated View of

5 (g) (2) (D1

13

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 14


14

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 15


JEK Act 5 (gl (2) (D)

15

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 16


—SEEGREF

5
SUBJECT: os Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

ak/49570 (07 Nov 97)
modified OIM/IRG/LSStrickland/31289 (13 Nov 97

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee

2 - DDA

- OIM/IRG Chrono
- C/OIM/IRG
- D/OIM
- OIM Legal Advisor
- D/OFSS
C/FMG/OFSS
- DO/cco
ey FMG/OFSS Tact § (g)(2)(D)
- DC
- OFSS Registry

PRREPPBHPEBE
1

g:\ipcrdwp\general\lss\arrb

16

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 17


7 ; aan : a Le

FK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

‘26 Séptember 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: | Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: John 'F. Pereira
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Release of
[in the Lopez Report

ek

1. The attached memorandum is provided in support of
our request that the JFK_board zecons/ der its decision to
release the reference to the
Lopez Report (p. 44).

2. We request that this memorandum and attachment
be returned to CIA once the Board has completed its
deliberations on this issue.

Attachment - oa Le. fin
(7 a acheatee

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 18



FK Act 5 (g}(2) (DI

OFSS-96-3975
25 September 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Information Review Offigér

VIA: Deputy Director fo
Director of Fac}
Chief, Facili gément Group, OFSS
FROM:
SUBJECT:
1.
discussion

that refer

‘tive-level “evidence” as to why
protected. In brief, significant
and the very existence of the

se
seas posts|.

protecition|.
Furthermore, the

sanctuary whereb

personnel jcan
alongside Agency employees without fear of being “tagged”
as working for the Agency.

3. {87 The cover mechanism_itself is ver

fragile.
mandate of the cover providers

PB

the affiliation_of

CONFIDENTIAL. LC]

the Agency, is classified SECRET vice

CL BY: 2004977

CL REASON: © 1:5(c)
DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: LOC 5-82

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 19


SUBJECT: jaf

lease of references to
would precipitate an

activities.

entirety. Activities at the other
be compromised are as follows:

g) (2) (D)

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 20

Spore ret

mial.
irical

lt,
er any

located at[> t i refers to WTC in its

(a) (2) 4D)


SUBJECT: {87 Cover Considerations

UPK Act § (g) (2) (D

cover allows it to maintain a very low profile. It is that
Ow profile which protects the personnel and missions as
described above. Removal of that protective cover, by act or
deed, would provide easy targets of opportunity for counter-
intelligence activities, terrorist activities, demonstrations,
and emotionally unstable individuals.

5. (8) In summary, any affiliation and the Agency,
no matter how insignificant the individual occurrence or document
release may seem, has the ve €al potential to jeopardize
lives, disrupt the Age ission, disrupt world-wide classified
message traffic, 7 thereby, do irreparable harm to the
national se y of the United States.

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 21


a Ca —CBHABENTAL—
ot
i
CL BY: 705641
CL REASON: Sectien 15.6
ECL on: X1
‘bay FRM: COV 1-82
TO: John F. Pereira

Brian S. Latell

Rebecca V. Strode

ocl

10/20/97 02:21:49 PM
Re: Release Issue/JFK Board

Thanks. | passed along to D/EXDIR and EXDIR. The D/EXDIR may want Brian Latell to provide some more background on this issue at
the meeting tomorrow.

Original Text of John F. Pereira

Original Text of John F. Pereira

Following is in response to questions raised by the EXDIR:
1. Members of JFK Board:
Chairman: Judge John Tunheim (Federal District Court, Minnesota)
Four other members: Henry Graff; History Professor Emeritus, Columbia U.
Kermit Hall; Dean of Humanities, Ohio State
William Joyce; Assoc. Librarian, Princeton U.
Anna Nelson; History Professor, American U.

2. Intermediate steps before appeal to President:

a) We are discussing our concerns with JFK Board Staff, and will ask the Board to
reconsider its decision.

4) We'll propose that a senior Agency officer brief the Board on the sensitivity of
(uma UFK Act 5 (g)(2)(0)
3. Who would make the appeal to the President ?

Thus far, the process calls for the Agency's General Counsel to forward the appeal
to the White House Counsel, with the approval of the EXDIR and/or DCI.

4, Has there been an appeal to the President before ?
CIA has submitted one appeal, in early 1996. The issues concerned identification of

certain European stations and liaison relationships. The White House directed the
Beard and the Agency to “work it out", which was done. After the ADDO briefed the

CONABENTAL

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 22


Board, a compromise was reached.
The FBI has submitted three appeals, none of which was successful.
5. Does ISCAP have a role ?

Thus far, ISCAP has had no role with regard to JFK, as far as we are aware.

ce: Regina A. Genton, Brian S. Latell, Edmund Cohen @ DA, James R. Oliver @ DA, Linda C. Cipriani, J. Barry Harrelson
Sent on 20 October 1997 at 02:21:49 PM

NW 65360 Docld:32404534 Page 23
