# docid-32332884

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10182

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/15/1958

'PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA, IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Diate: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

PG: 92-226

married PRECIOUS R. MARINO, also lives at San Jose,

California,

ang runs a cheese factory with his father. He recalled that

at the wedding of ANGELO and PRECIOUS, JOHN LA ROCCA, MIKE

GENOVESE and KELLY MANNARINO were inattendance.

SCARDINA advised that the cheese factory at San Jose,

California,

was actually, purchased by SALVATORE MARINO,

who gave it to ANGELO, He advised that as far as he can

determine, neither of the MARINOs are in illegitimate

businesses of any kind in the California area.

éndered

It was previously determined that telephone calls were made

from the La rocca residence at Ingomar, Pa, to telephone

Johnstown, Pa. 7-1182. This has been

subsequently deternined

to be the number subseribed to by SAM FASHION,

MilLway

Cafe, 118 Walnut Street, Johnstown, Pa. Fe allegedly operates

this cafe for JOSEPH REGINA, a close associate of LA ROCCA

and LA ROCCAls younger brother, JOHN J. LA ROCCA, 11ves

upstairs over. the cafe.

The New York Office advised on April 1l, 1958, that additional

Information received frem the Bureau of Motor Vehloles at

New York City, refleets that HENRY TURCOTT, who has been

contacted from the LA ROCCA residence at Pittsburgh on

numerous occasions, was born June 17, 1906, 1s 516" tall,

weight - 148 pounds, has brow hair and blue eyes and has

been assigned operatorts.

license 59407. He has a

Chevrolet station wagon, green in color, bearing 1957

New York license Surburban 84939, which vehicle bears

Motor Number 0371886T55X and Serial Nimber H255B019138

He does not have a chauffeur's licenser

D': CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

Interview of VINCENT CASEY, Attorney For MIKE GENOVESE and

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA.

The New York Office advised on April 1ls

1958, that SA JOHN J.

RYAN had confidentially learned from WILLIAM LYNCH, Assistant

United States Attorney for the Southern Distriet of New York,

that

had been subpoenaed for appearance before. the, Federal Crand

Jury for the Southern District of New York on Thursday.

= 17 -

REVIEWED BY EBWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/29/97 Ach

I RELEAGE IN FUL:

RELEASE IN PANT

TOTAL DENIAL

JFK Law 10(a)2

92-2940-27

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JEK Law 10(a)2

PC 92-226

April 17, 1958.

is appearance was belleved to be directly

connected with

mon appearanos berore che 'Federal

Grand Jury as ordered

on April 10, 1958, ALBERT DI NEOLO, United States Marshal

for

the western District of Pennsylvania at Pittsbarh

advised that on Saturday, April 12, 1958, he served a

subpoena to VINCENT CASEY,

the attorney for SEBASTIAN Jor

LA ROCOA, for his appearance before the Federal Grand Jury

for the Southern Distriot of. New York on April 17, 1958 He

states that he die this after receiving telephonic instructions

from STEPHEN E, 'KAUFMAN, Assistant United States Attorney in

New York CIty,

and that KAUMAN later called him and told

him that CASEY+s appesrance would not be necessary.

DI MEOLO said that KAUFMAN told him contidentially that he

might have the Federal Bureau o1 Investigation intertiew

CAsEy to make sure he realized that LA ROCCA!s /apperance

was

"very sought after" and in order to show CAsEY that

the "pressure had not been let up" as far as his responsibility

to produce LA ROCCA was concerned. He said KAUFMAN told

him he was very reluctant to sabpoena a lawyer but was

"."."

Wins to try almost anythine to insure later copearance.

VINCENT CASEY,

attorney for

several of Pittsburgh's/ top

hoodlums, Including MIKE GENOVESE and SECASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCAS

was contacted on April 18, 1958, by SAS RICHARD 0. /DOUdE and

RObERt A. VIGilat his office in the. Grant Bulldine, In

connection with anether matter, He advised that his subpoena

had been canceled and that he did not antioipate another.

He said he considered the appearances of individals before

that particular Rederal Grand Jury 2, complete waste of time

and money.

He stated that |

contacted hin telephonically

after being served with a subpoena and requested CASEY to

accompany him to New York for legal advice. He said that he

together ye the bite one irone:

with groups of hoodlums for

one entire day without

being called. He recalled that I

on the second day,

was asked a great many "generalized personal and irrelevant

questions" by members of the Grand Jury, andithat he advised

Ite answer these as he: saw

fit; but to utilize the

Fitth Amendment if He did not wish to disess, the purpose

ầnd

ramifications of the

USM

100278c0

REVIEWED BY_PANJEE TASK FORGE

ON

10/2/97 dw

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

92-2940-27

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 3

---

## Page 4

JFK Law 10(a)2

PG 92 226

CASEY advised that he was in Indo-China at the time of the

Apalachin meeting and was extremely surprised upon his return

to learn that the rederal Grand Jury

In New York was Interested

in

whom he feels has been "unduly persecuted'

throughout hi's lifetime,

CASEY was advised by his Interviewers

that

at the time of the

and that therefores

It was natural. for him to receive

also. He stated that he never discussed the l

&

subpoena

with

since he felt it was none of his business and that

py the same token, never volunteered any information

concerning

CASEY advised that he knows nothing of lA ROCeAls present

whereabouts and wishes he did since he has a local, civil tax

matter to alscuss with him, He said he has represented

LA ROCCA on his tax matters for quite some time and that the

entire situation came about as a result of a net worth statement

subnitted by LA ROCCA in 1948. He said he understood that the

sister of JOHN CONTI,

•cousin to La roccA, had died and that

TA ROCOA could not be contacted regarding this death which

occurred recently.: He said he is at a loss to explain the

disappearance of LA ROCCA and thinks IA ROCCA

should get the

New York appearance "over with."

He said he would advise

LATROCCA to invoke the Fifth Amendment and thus satisfy his

abllgation.

CASEY was questioned specifically concerning his presence at

Hot Springs; Arkansas during March, 1957, at which time he

was In the company of GABRTEL MANNARINO,

hoodlum who attended the Apalachin meeting;

Pittsburgh top

and LA ROCCAs

He appeared initially surprised at this line of questioning

and remarked that, "the FBI knows more about LA ROCCA than

I do."" He advised that he visited Hot Springs for the specific

purpose of conferring

with'IA ROCCA about a legal matter and

took papers with him for IA ROCCA to examine.

the other individuals "Just happened to be there stated that

he understood that most of them had vacationed at this

location for twenty years or more.

On Apr1l 16, 1958, Assistant United States Attorney STEPHEN

HAVINAN of the Southern District of New York, advised

Bureau agents' at New York Olty that he had been in occasional

SOUSA

REVIEWED BY EBUJFK TASK FORCE

= 19 -

ON

9/29197. 20t

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

92-2940-27

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JEK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

contact with

had

Laterred

that he could produce

for questioning

he sala that.

upon the continued failure of the United states

Marsharat

Pittsburgh to effect serving

had lasued a subpoena for the

with the subpoena..he

appearance

April 17, 1958 He stated that

had commnicated with

him by telephone on the morning of April 16, 195%

and had

informed him that he did not know of

whereabouts

and that therefore, he had excused

from the scheduled

appearance on April 17, 1958.

General Criminal Information Relating TO IA ROCCA and His Associates

I-S" "BIG JOHN" LA ROCCA has not been at the Red Eagle Club

who has furnished rellable infornation In the past, advised

off the GENOVESE brothers have frequented the club. Informant

for many months" and that very lew of the top lovel friends

stated that ARCHIBANISON, PlEtsburgh ten hoodlum, still eats

there regularly,

but that

FRANK' VALENTI, another Pittsburgh

top hoodlum, has not been in the vleinity for months.

Informant observed JOE ROSA and his sen

at the Cocktail Lounge "on many occasions,

known as "LITITE JOE,"

but explained that

"LITTLE JOE" was never allowed into conterences held by the

top level hoodlums since his father wished to keep him clean.

Infermant advised that EVELYN "PEPPER" CAPPELIANO still dates

fulL caNOVEsE regularly and has to take days off from her

Job frequently because her face Is bruised from bestings:

administered by her paramour. Infermant was unable to

pinpoint the exact location of SEBASTIAN JON. IA ROCOA. but

stated that there is an excellent possibility. that hets.

in the Pittsburgh vicinity and is simply

staying hidden to

avold the serving of a subpoens on him.

ên March 17, 1958, cHUC

scum a close assoclate or the subject

and of other top hoodlums, wo is a top haodlum

of the Pittsburgh

oftice himself, was contacted in his suite, of rooms at the

Carlton House Hotel In Pittsburgh by SAS CENE FL./ STODEBAKER

JOHN S. PORIELLA, and advised that he was well aware that

the FBI was making certain Inquiries concerning him and

people with whom he had associated, but felt that he had

nothing to worry about because he knew he had not violated

any law that came within Federal jurisdiction

-20 -

98-2940-27

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

"One reason given for IA ROCCA! s'disappearance' 1s

that he may fear revival of deportation charges

which were dropped last year when he won an

acquittal on a perjury charge."

Interest of the Internal Revenue Service In the Subject

ROBERT GANLEY, Special Agent, Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, 521 New Federal Building, Pittsburgh,

advised on April 15, 1958, that the Internal Revenue

Service

JEK Law 11(a)

Other Matters of A Miscellaneous Nature

The Buffalo Office: advised on April 2, 1958, that Miss VIRGINIA

KOLNINSKL, Clerk, Inmigration and Naturalization Service,

Buffalo, New York,

had advised that her indices reflects that

a request was made by 'Immigration and Naturalization Service

in tittsburg, under 1ile 0700-19145s

for an investigation

concerning the subjeet. These results were furnished te

Pittsburgh and there Is no further information in the

Buffalo files..:

T-5, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised that limited records of the Prüdential Insurance

Company at Newark, New.Jersey, reflect only that

Prudential foreclosed on the

TA ROCCA property at

321 South Main Street, Jamestown, New York, on April 21,

1934." The company held it as. company property until It

sold on May 1, 1945 The original loan of $8,000

was carried under Mortgage Loan No. 286109, but there was

no further data with respect to the manner of transaction

for the loan between

the Prudential Insurance Company and

LA ROCCA •

• 29 -

93-2940-27

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

T-1L8 WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell, relephene

Company of

Pennsylvanta,

who was contacted by SA HAROLD L.

STEVENS on April 15, 1958, and who has requested that his

identity be concealed.

T-2 13 H.

W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, United States Post

1958, and again on April 15, 1958,

and who requested that his identity be concealed.

T-3 1s MISS FRANCES PRIAM, a potential criminal informant

of the Pittsburgh office,

was contacted on April 23,

1958, by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

T-4 18 GEORGE (MOON) MESSER, a potential

criminal Informant

of the

Pittsburgh Office whe was contacted by SA VOEGE,

on April 8 and 28, 1958.

I-5 1s NK-8, whose identity 1s known to the Bureau.

- 31

NW 68262 Docld:32332884 Page 7

---

