# docid-32306381

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2020

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, BU

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/02/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, P/P, GAMBLING ACT, PDT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

11992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68252 Date: 09:22.2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32306381 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

SH

DC

FBI-BUFFALO

12:30 URGENT 6/2/67 DJL

TO DIRECTOR (92 - 6054)

FROM SAC, BUFFALO (92-337) 2P

FEDERAL BUREAN OF INVESTIGATION

U.S, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTION

JUN? 1967

TELETYPE

Me. Potson

Mr. De Loach

M/. Moh:

Mol

Mr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter -

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

LA COSA NOSTRA - BUFFALO DIVISION;

AR.

ANTIRACKETEERING

Bulfalo Top Echolon Informant

FOUR ZERO NINE-C-TE)HAS FURNISHED DETAILED INFORMATION

RE A LARGE "SKIN GAME AT THE BLUE BANNER SOCIAL CLUB, BUFFALO,

NY, BEING BANKED BY FRED G. RANDACCIO, UNDERBOSS, "MAG ADDI NO

FAMI LY

OF

LeN.

PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION HAS DETERMINED BLUE

9-

BANNER SOCIAL CLUB OWNED BY LON MEMBER BENEDETIO P. SPANO AND

FREQUENTED BY ALL PROMINENT MEMBERS OF "MAGADDINO FAMILY." THE

ILLEGAL GAMBLING CONDUCTED AT THIS CLUB IS ONE OF THE MAJOR

SOURCES OF INCOME FOR THE MAGADDINO FAMILY."

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM BU FOUR ZERO NINE-C-TE HAS BEEN

DISSEMINATED TO CAPTAIN KENNETH P. KENNEDY LIGAMBLING SQUAD,

BUFFALO,

Ponce Depar ment

PD.

Potential Criminal

Informant

ON JUNE ONE, SIXTYSEVEN FORMER PET LAWRENCE JOINEC 49

92 - 60542020

GOBLE MET WITH BUREAU AGENT AND CAPTAIN KENNETH P. KENNEDY,

AT WHICH TIME HE OFFERED TO ENTER ILLEGAL GAMBLING GAME AT

BLUE BANNER SOCIAL CLUB TODAY AND THEREAFTER SIGN NECESSARY

COMPLAINT IN BUFFALO CITY COURT FOR LOCAL SEARCH AND ARREST

END PAGE ONE

JUN 6 1967

51

MR.

. DELOACH FOR THE

DIRECTOR

UN131967

NW 68262 Docld:32306381 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

WARRANTS, GOBLE HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTENDED GAMBLING AFFAIRS AT THE

CLUB. CAPTAIN KENNEDY HAS ADVISED THAT A COMPLAINT BY GOBLE

COUPLED WITH INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM BUFFALO INFORMANT

WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO SUSTAIN SUCCESSFUL COURT ACTION AGAINST

PARTICIPANTS AND OVERSEERS OF THIS ILLEGAL GAMBLING OPERATION.

IF GOBLE IS SUCCESSFUL IN ENTERING THE GAME, THESE WARRANTS

WILL BE EXECUTED TODAY BY OFFICERS OF THE BUFFALO PD, GAMBLING

SQUAD. CAPTAIN KENNEDY HAS ADVISED THAI HE WILL CHARGE ALL

PARTICIPANTS IN THE GAME WITH VIOLATION OF SECTION NINE FOUR

THREE OF THE BUFFALO CITY ORDINANCE ILLEGAL FREQUENTING OF

GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT) AND THE OPERATORS OF THE GAME WITH

New York

state

VIOLATION OF SECTION NINE SEVEN THREE OF THE NYS PENAL LAW

(MAINTAINING PREMISES FOR GAMBLING) •

IF THE ABOVE PLANS MATERIALIZE, BUFFALO AGENTS ANTICIPATE

DISCREETLY OBSERVING THE EXECUTION OF THESE WARRANTS IN ORDER TO

SECURE BUREAU INTEREST.

Unless advised to contrary by the Bureau

LACE THE BUFFALO DIVISION WILL PROCEED AS OUTLINED ABOVE.

END

BAP

FBI WASH DC

P

CC: MR. GALE

NW 68262 Docld:32306381 Page 3

---

