leased under the John F. Kennedy
fssassination Records Collection Act off

992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:NW
B22 Date: 09-22-20

PH 92-441

Leads

MIAMI:
AT MIAMI BEACH, FLA,

Will contact the Miami Beach Police Department and
determine the reason for the inquiry made by this department
concerning the subject, fa request was made for a copy of
subject's record on 9/26/63 by the Miami Beach, Fla., Police
Department).

NEW YORK:
- AT NEW YORK CITY, N, Y.

Will continue contact with PCI HERBERT CHAPMAN for
information concerning the activity of the subject,

TAMPA:
AT ORLANDO and LONGWOOD, FLA.

a Will obtain background information coneerning ROBERT
L. BROWN. (As of 2/12/58 his residence was listed as 3506 Nash-
ville Street, Orlando, Fla. As of 1/23/63 his address was Post
Office Box 3156, Mobile Manor, Longwood, Fla.)

It. is noted that on 8/9/63 a 1962 model Ford sedan was
observed in front of the residence of the subject at Kingston,
Pa., which vehicle bore Florida registration 7-W-14936,

By letter of 8/26/63 the Office of Motor Vehicle Com-
missioner, Tallahassee, Fla., advised that this tag was issued
for a 1955 Pontiac sedan to ROBERT L, BROWN, 3506 Nashville
Street, Orlando, Fla. The tag, 7-W-14936, was issued 1/23/63
to ROBERT L, BROWN, Post Office Box 3156, Mobile Manor, Longwood,
Fla. :

-Be
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565078 Page 1



PH 92-441

AT HAZLETON, PA.

Will identify the subscriber to telephone number
LU 9-9076. This is a number which was reportedly called
from the Hotel Forrest, New York City, by the subject ora
member of his party during September 1963. It is to be
noted that the Hazleton exchanges are "454" and "455," rather
than any "LU" exchange as indicated,

AT MOOSIC, PA.

Will identify the subscriber to telephone 457-7416.
This is a number which was reportedly called by the subject
or "CAPPY" GUIMENTO from Hotel Forrest, New York City, during
September 1963,

AT PITTSTON, PA.

Will maintain contact with the following for infor-
mation concerning the activities of the subject:

PH 521-C

PH 526-G

PCI WILLIAM STRUBES:

CHIEF OF POLICE JOSEPH DELANEY

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

1. Will identify the subseriber to Philadelphia tele-
phone 437-4684. This number was reportedly called by the
subject or a member of his party from the Hotel Forrest, New
York City, during September 1963.

2, Will maintain contact with PH 614-6,

AT SCRANTON, PA.

cause Ey Will identify the subssribers to the following tele-
phones which were called by the subject or a member of his party

Deo
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565078 Page 2


PH 92-442

from Hotel Forrest, New York City, during September 1963:

DIamond 6-6685
DIamond 6-3981
Diamond 2-1182,

2. Will maintain contact with the following:

PCI FRANK COLLINS

PCI SAMUEL SALVATORE BERNARDINI
PCI LOU ALPERT

PCI WILLIAM FAILLA

PH 559-C

PH 665-PC.

AT WILKES-BARRE, PA,

Will maintain contact with CHARLES LILLY, Enforcement
officer, Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, for information con-
cerning the subject, "

Administrative Data

Information obtained from the New England Telephone
Company, New Haven, Conn., was received from NH 409-¢S;

Information obtained from the Bell Telephone Company,
Williamsport, Pa., was received from ANN REIDY, Secretary.

Information obtained from the New Jersey Bell Tele-
phone Company was received from NK 1741-CS. i

It is to be noted that the period of investigation
of this report predates the previous report; this is due to
the facet that information received from auxiliary offices,
which investigation was conducted prior to the submission of
the last-report, was not received by this office until after
the last report was submitted,

a
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565078 Page 3


7 Se -

PH 92-441

Information received from the Southern Bell Telephone
Company, Hollywood, Fla., was furnished by LORRAINE INGSTERN,
Secretary.

The New York Office has reported by letter of August
29, 1963, concerning telephone calls made from Hotel Forrest,
New York City, by associates of the subject, which are being
handled under New York file 92-777 entitled, "ANTHONY F.
GUARNIERI; AR,"

New York has also advised that PCI VIOLET DUNNE, who
in the past has furnished information concerning the subject
during the time he stayed at Hotel Forrest, New York City, has
not been contacted regarding the subject because a new PCI has
been developed at the hotel, and a contact with PCI DUNNE
might compromise the new PCI, or vice versa.

On October 10, 1963, Corporal CARL MACIEJEWSKI, Penn-
_ Sylvania State Police, Wyoming, Pa., advised that he could fur-
nish no new information concerning the subject or his associates.

JOANABUSCEMI, 5 East Columbus Avenue, Pittston, Pa.,
an associate of the sub ject, was interviewed “on October 145°
1963, and he advised that he could furnigh no information con-

cerning the subject.

On September 26, 1963, Gorporal ROY PETERS, Pennsyl-
vania State Police, Wyoming, Pa., advised that he had no new
information concerning the subject.

The previous report in this matter set forth a lead
at the Shelbourne Corporation, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. This is a
large distributing center for electrical supplies, No contact
will be made at this concern unless information is received to
show specific individual at this concern who was contacted by
the subject,

Newark informants NK 2313-C* and NK 2251-C* have fur-
nished no information concerning any reason for contact by
THOMAS E, BOLI in behalf of GERARDO CATENA, -

oF :
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565078 Page 4


PH 92-441

PH Te-1
PH T-2
PH T-3

PH T-5

PH T-7
PH T-8

PH T-10

PH T-11
PH T-12

PH T-13
PH T=14

z

T915
PH T-16
PH T-17

oN

Informants

PH 665-PC

FH 559-0

PGL LOUIS ALPERT

NY POI -HERSERT CHAPMAN

POL WILLEAM FATLLA

PO SAMUEL SALVATORE BERNARDINI
PCE GILBERT HOUSTON MURR

JOSEPH DELANEY, CHIEF OF POLICE,
PIETSTON, PA.

POSTMASTER FRANK TRACEY ,
PITISTON, PA,

CHARLES LILLY, ENFORCEMENT OFFICER,
PENNSYLVANIA LIQUOR CONTROL BOARD,
WILKES-BARRE, PA,

NY 3696-T2

LOULS, SHUPNIK, PROBATION OFFICER,
LUZERNE COUNTY, WILKES-BARRE, PA,

PH 526.6
PH 618-6
PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK
PH 521-0

WILLIAM RINALDI, RINALDI MOTORS,
TAYLOR, PA.

oG#e

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32565078 Page 5
