# docid-32295915

## Page 1

-

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10216-10191

HQ

92-2713-93

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/08/1961

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS:

CM, THP, B/F INT, VICKERY, WALTER O., ARREST, ILLEGAL

GAMBLING DEVICES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32295915 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

Enct

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

2/8/61

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-36)

0

CARLOS

MARCELLO, aka.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Attached is a letterhead memorandum concerning the

recovery of some slot machines by a Deputy Sheriff in Jefferson

Parish from the home of another

Jefferson Parish Deputy Sheriff,

which has resulted in considerable publicity in the New Orleans

newspapers since 2/3/61.

This is being forwarded to the Bureau

inasmuch as publicity in the newspapers

has indicated that the

Jefferson Parish Crime Commission has directed a wire to the

Attorney General requesting a Federal investigation in Jefferson

The ALOYSIUS P. DARGIS mentioned in the attached

memorandum is a PCI of the New Orleans Office, but agents handling

him have been unable to contact him since this matter came to

light. DARGIS will be located and interviewed concerning this

matter and further memoranda will be submitted.

BROWWELL

-P-

2

Bureau (Enc.

New Orleans

FGB : nh

(5)

With

prom

REG 67

92-2113-93

52 MAR 2

196

Fall.

EX-136

FEB

101963

51132

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Special Agent in Charge

NW 68262 Docld:32295915 Page 2

---

