ion.
2 (44 USC 2107 Note), Casel:Nw

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90132-10007
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-9-29-889
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/17/1965 Z

PAGES: 2

SUBIECTS :
JACK RUBENSTEIN
CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM MIAMI
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/25/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: AT

vot

NW 64578 Docld:32336103 Page 1


$-22-64) Oo eg
: Ww

I
a >
: ‘o)
a “= |
FBI f
Date: 8/17/65
1
_> Transmit the following in |
' (Type in plaintext or code) i
Via AIRTEL '
(Priority) 1
eater taraantardsartesisadueatscie ster erste ses trssaes te aTes Ee sata eee eeea ea ees reatasacenta sata st enaeen pnmgean ouatensoeateneguetedaees edness sseesessensstarty bee e eee
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

Colter. INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

é

MM 509-C-TE reported that MURRAYYPRANKLIN,
an entertainer, who for years operated a night club
and restaurant, got together with FRA LOGUARDI
MM392-405) and made a business deal, since FRANKLIN
had®no iggation, but had a very good "fo Llowing.. As
a sult,’ DIOGUARDI is providing Dore's Restaurant
and Lounge, .which he owns, and FRANKLIN is providing
* tle entértainment and additional customers. Allegedly,
they split 50-50 after they deduct the expenses.

= 2 MM 789-C advised that reportedly HUNTINGTON...

TFORD , ee of Paradise Island in the Bahama Islands
d same to the 1 Mary Carter Paint Company for 15” ~
million dollars, but retained a 20% interest in the
operation. Supposedly a 500 room hotel will be built :
by the Mary Carter Paint Company and after construction :
of same, the gambling casino license of the Bahamian Low
Club in Nassau will be transferred to the Paradise
Island operation.

ames

VICTOR N. CLUFF, PCI, advised that the ©
Lucayan Beach Hotel, Freeport, Grand Bahama Island,
it is more or less dead during the week days, but on

Py ~ > a PY
i2’- Bureau . Sorex REC. 5A lg 2-4- AF a LEP

1 - Miami
REF: jaj ==
(4) 25 AUG 18 1965

pugess® . Sent M  Per\S
ie Special Ag NS

NW 64578 Docld:32336103 Page 2



MM 92-515

the weekends and holidays it is jammed, more or less to
capacity (MM 92-1241).

MM 962-C reported that the latter part of
July, 1965, the National/Plastering Company, Miami

each, oP. erated ry MAX: ER” (MM-92=467) and JACK
only $46.00“in their checking account.
/\Thie officials of the Bank of Dade County advised them

that the bank would not honoy any overdrafts. EDER
promptly contacted CHARL
General Builders, with whom they do business; and |
DONNER made available a $25,000.00 check.
that DONNER did not have sufficient money in his account’
to cover the check, so EDER had to transfer some of

» his funds to the National Plastering Company account.

and TOMM¥MERRON, who runs Dinty Moore's Restaurant
in Boston, Massachusetts, are going to operate Dinty
h Moore's Restaurant’ TH" Ho Llywood , Florida.

> to giving a prospective customer or current customer
financial aid,

ey a

NNER, of the Southland /

t 984-PC reported that aucaéstiro (MM 92-1354) }
and JO IDELICATO (MM 92-404), both operators of cigare
vending businesses, have changed their policy relative —

/
/

/

It was learned

Sela

Le

i MM 673-C advised that RICHARDYGAMILLUCCI, i
t aoe son-in-law of JO! ELE ‘(MM 92- -479),

tre

they now make them a shylock loan instead.

NW 64578 Docld:32336103 Page 3
