# docid-32332724

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-165

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/05/1961

'PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW

58262 Date: 09.22-2022

V9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

and his associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information from records of the south Pittsburgh Savings anc

Loan Association is confidential and should not be made public.

in the absence of a subpoena directed to J. DOUGLAS DOLE,

Executive Vice-President and Secretary, South Pittsburgh Savings

and Loan Association, 1712 East Carson Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG I-I IS PG 622-C*, contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG T-2 1s PCI WALTER I. KRIEGER, contacted by SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG T-3 1s PG 585-C, who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

-B*-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

ROBERT A. VOEGE

6/5/61

Field Office File No.: Pittsburgh 92-226

Title:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

Office: PLITSBURGH

Bureau Filé No.: 92-2940

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Informants advise that LA ROCCA will spend period from approximately

5/30/61 to 6/4/61 at Wayne, Pa., near Philadelphia, in order to

attend graduation of adopted son from Valley Forge Military

Academy. Gift of Ford Thunderbird with special upholstery has

been ordered for graduation gift and LA ROCCA and wife plan to

stay at motel in Wayne, Pa., vicinity. Gross sales of cement

block during 1960 at the North Star

Cement Block Co., Pittsburgh,

allegedly amounted to $431,624, and $70,000 In building supplies

were sold during same period. For the first time

DIGCIMINATION RESTRICTED TO JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

Gun permit, bankruptcy and gasoline credit card

records reviewed negatively.

Information relating to associates,

illegal activities, legitimate enterprises and banking connections

set forth. IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF LA ROCCA FOR ASSAULT

WITH INTENT TO KILI, AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON,

HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P-

92-2440-165

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

C. ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES

General Information of a Criminal Nature Relating tothe

LA ROCCA - GENOVESE Organization Obtained Through Informant

Coverage.

PG T-1 has advised that there is a definite possibility that

the PRUNER brothers, officials at LA ROCCA's North Star

Cement Block Company in Pittsburgh, have transferred stock

in AT &. T to LA ROCCA and that neither LA ROCCA nor the PRUNERS

have listed this stock on their income tax returns. He further

explained that although LA ROCCA has sold stock in the North

Star Cement Block Company, he is holding this stock as security

for his employees until they can come up with a set sun.

informant stated that he does not think that either LA ROCCA or

his employees have paid tax on this stock and that the PRUNER

brothers have threatened to "talk" if the stocks are not returned

to them so they can be transferred and LA ROCCA given his money.

The informant estimated that ROY VEY, another company executive,

and the PRUNER brothers owe roughly $40,000 to LA ROCCA personally

1a bao otto contre plane to then ether of these amounts

is paid, the stock will be

GEORGE ARMSTRONG, Vice-President, Stock Issue Corporation, AT & T,

50 Varick Street, New York City, advised on April 25, 1961, that

a thorough review of all his records fails to indicate that

ALDO and ALMO PRUNER hold any stock in AT & T nor have they

held any stock at any time in the past.

On May 3, 1961, ARMSTRONG advised that JOHN S. LA ROCCA and

MARY LA ROCCA, 900 West Ingomar Road, Pittsburgh, Pa., opened an

account with AT & I on April 21, 1961, with a purchase of 39

shares of AT & T stock on that

date.

The stock records note

them as joint tenants with right of survivorship.

11 (a)

5

92-2940-105..

NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

Law

The Little Rock Office of the FBI advised on May 4, 1961, that

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA was not interviewed by Bureau Agents

or the Hot Springs Police Department in relation to the jewel

theft at the Arlington Hotel in Hot Springs, Arkansas, during

lore dun hot serines oka

1957• While at Hot Springs during 1957, LA ROCCA associated with

the MANNARINO brothers of New Kensington, Pa.

on May 3, 1961, GERALD VANDERSLICE, Room Clerk, Velda Rose

Motel, Hot Springs, Arkansas, advised that LA ROCCA had not been

a guest at this motel from January, 1961, to May 3, 1961, and

that the MANNARINO brothers have not been visitors

at the motel

either.

PG T-1 advised on May 12, 1961, that LA ROCCA was extremely and

unusually upset on that dayconcerning an impending investigation

by the Internal Revenue Service at Pittsburgh and anticipated

questions relating to gasoline consumption for two automobiles

for business reasons.

D.

LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

Information Relating to the North Star Cement Block Company,

Pittsburgh, Pa. (SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, President) •

PG T-l has advised that supervisory employees of the North Star

Cement Block Company advised LA ROCCA recently that gross sales

of block during the yaac!960 were $431,624 and that the company

sold $70,000 worth of building supplies during that year. They

also advised him, upon his return from Florida, that there was only

$19,000 in the North Star account at a Pittsburgh bank during

April, 1961, and that $8,000 had been paid to LA ROCCA for loans.

They stated that income tax and other incidentals had not yet been

estimated and advised LA ROCCA that the company is much better off

this year than in 1960 because it has a great deal of block in

stock and is now handling five different types of mortar.

6

902-2440165

NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

The aforementioned informant advised that officials of the

North Star Cement Block Company read a scientific magazine

explaining technical devices on April 17, 1961, and decided

on that date not to allow any Federal agents

other than

representatives of the Internal Revenue Service inside the

company

office. He said they believed that the FBI kept abreast of all

situations by utilizing ballpoint pens which are actually tape

recorders.

The aforementioned informant advised on May 9, 1961, that LA ROCCA

was extremely concerned over the drive of the Attorney General

of the United States against organized crime which was publicized

He advised employees not to talk to representatives of

the Internal Revenue Service or volunteer information while

records were being checked and stated that he planned to give the

Internal Revenue Service a "hard time."

Inc:, Johnstown, Pa.

Special Agent ROBERT MADDEN, Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, Pittsburgh, Pa., advised

JEK Law

11(a)

7

93-2640-16551

/ NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

The United States National Bank, Johnstown, Pa.

On May 4, 1961, Special Agent ROBERT MADDEN, Intelligence Division,

Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh. Pa. advised

JFK Law

1 (a)

The Western Pennsylvania National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pa.

on May 5, 1961, Special Agent ROBERT MADDEN advised that

F. MISCELLANEOUS

Information Relating to Gun Permit Records

On April 27, 1961, Lieutenant BENJAMIN LEE, Identification Bureau,

Pennsylvania State Police Headquarters, Harrisburg, Pa., advised

that his records do not contain an application for issuance of a

gun permit for LA ROCCA; the true name of LA ROCCA and his known

aliases as well as the

name of the North Star Cement Block Company

were checked in this regard.

Information Concerning Gulf Oil Company Records

On April 27, 1961, JOHN MAYLOR, Clerk, Credit Department,

Gulf O1l Company,

City Line and

President Avenues, Philadelphia,

Pa., advised that Gulf 011 Company records contain no listing for

the North Star Cement Block Company or for the subject under his

true name or known aliases. The name, MARY LA ROCCA, was also

checked negatively in this regard.

10*

93-2940:1655-ngees.

NW 68262 Docld:32332724 Page 7

---

