Date : 12/12/97
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10010-10396
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : XE3270404WJE - PAGE 818

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : FERRELL, WILLIAM D
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 11/16/60
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : SLOBODA, VLADIMIR WALTER

LAMBINON, MARCEL
{ RESTRICTED ]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). CasettNw’
B49 9-22-20

NW 64954 Docld:34517476 Page 1



AGENT REPORT

(SR_380-320-10)

1+ NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2» DATE SUBMITTED.
SLOBODA, Vladimir Walter aka Wladimir (U) 16 November 1960
SP5, .RA10812694 3
DOB: 7 January 1927

Podkamine, Ukraine
4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

+ CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

2/6ZBV XE-327040

GOP 1 November 1960, records maintained by Berlin Station, 513th MI
Group, APO 742, were examined concerning Marcel Lambinon, a possible
associate of Carmen Richter, and revealed substantially the following:

Marcel Lambinon, residing at Oehlertstrasse 4, Berlin-Suedende
(Steglitz) UU9220 (US Sector), Germany, was the Subject of a request from
the Chief, Station H, O&R Detachment, Berlin on or about 17 January 1958.
Station H requested on behalf of French Forces in Berlin what objections
Region VIII would have to placing technical coverage on Lambinon in an
attempt to verify or refute suspicions that Lambinon was. maintaining con-
tact with hostile intelligence. CIS coverage was initiated on or about
11 February 1958, reference VIII-23702 and continued until 11 June 1958. |
Results of such coverage. was to be forwarded to French Intelligence with
information copy furnished CE Section, Region VIII. Results of coverage
were not indicated.

et pllnaiigiaueae

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;
ASSIFIED,

4

WILLIAM D. FERRELL, 513th MI Group

DA 252 BAL certsces Gk.” be useo. AGL () 1an-aene-88

5+ TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT 6. SIGNATURE OF ae,

NW 64954 Docld:34517476 Page 2
