# docid-34529175

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

01/14/98

:

AGENCY

RECORD

• NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10004-10359

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

PAGES

9-10

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]

TO

TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]

DATE

:

03/26/69

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: MARTI, MANUEL

COMMUNISM, VIEWS ON

AFFIDAVIT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL, DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 09-22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34529175 Page 1

---

## Page 2

г. 71.

PLACE

An Khe, Republic of Vietnam

LAST NAME, FIRST NAME; MIDDLE NAME.

MARTI,

Manuel

NMIN

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

STATEMENT BY ACCUSFER OR SUSPECT -ERSON

DATE

TIME

26 March 69.

1330

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NO.

GRADE

JFK Act 5 19) 12) 1DUS52773870N EZ

FILE NUMBER

Headquarters and Headquarters Battery,

4th Bne.

PART 1. WAIVER CERTIFICATE

60th Artillerge APD 96294

I HAVE BEEN INFORMED BY

William I, Brooke, Special Agent

OF US Army Intelligence Corps

THAT HE WANTS TO QUESTION ME ABOUT asSOCiation with possible members of the Commnist Party

OF WHICH TAM ACCUSED-OR SUSPECTED.

HE HAS ALSO INFORMED ME OF MY RIGHTS.

I UNDERSTAND THAT I HAVE THE RIGHT TO REMAIN SILENT AND THAT ANY STATEMENT I MAKE MAY BE

USED AS EVIDENCE AGAINST ME IN A CRIMINAL TRIAL.

I UNDERSTAND THAT I HAVE THE RIGHT TO CONSULT WITH COUNSEL AND TO HAVE COUNSEL PRESENT

WITH ME DURING QUESTIONING. I MAY RETAIN COUNSEL AT MY OWN EXPENSE OR COUNSEL WILL BE APPOINTED FOR

ME AT NO EXPENSE TO ME

MAY BE MILITARY COUNSEL OF MY OWN CHOICE IF HE IS REASONABLY AVAILABLE.

I UNDERSTAND THAT EVEN IF I DECIDE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS NOW WITHOUT HAVING COUNSEL PRESENT,

I MAY STOP ANSWERING QUESTION AT ANY TIME. ALSO, I MAY REQUEST COUNSEL AT ANY TIME DURING QUESTIONING.

FA0) (DO NOT) WANT COUNSEL

DO, DOONOT WANT TO MAK

ANSWER QUESTIONS.

INTERROGATOR:

Donald SM. Miyak

(Signature)

DONALD M. MIYOSEI, SPECIAL AGENT

55TH MI DETACEMENT

(CORPS)

(Typed Name and Organization)

WITNESS:

Is alliant.

(Signature)

WILLIAM I. BROOKS,

SPECIAL ACENT

55KH MI DETACIMENT (CORPS)

(Typed Name and Organization)

PART II - SWORN STATEMENT

WANT TO MAKE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT UNDER

Manuel Marti

OATH:

- Question.

What are your views on communion as practiced in the world today?-

Answer.

I think the communists are trying to take over the world. I don't go for it.

Have you ever participated in any communist party activities?

A.

Qa.

A.

None.

Have you ever associated with any members of the commnist party? —

Not to my knowledge.

What organizations or associations do you belong to? -

-A.

I belong to the Amoriean HanD Dealers ASsociation. : STAMS COLLECTURS ORGANIZATIO,

Any others? -

A.

No.

do What degree of influence did your parents' political ideologies and activities have

on you?-

A. My Mother wasn't too interested in politics. My father is a Democrat but he doesn'

always agree with the ideas of either party or with the candidates. My father's polit-

ical ideologies have not been an influence. Sometimes I agree with my. father and other

times I don'to -

do: What is your attitude toward military service?

A.: Like everyone else, if I didn't have to be here I wouldn't I don't object to being

in the military.-

do. What is your attitude toward service in Vietnam?

EXHIBIT

INITIAL RON MAKING STATEMENT

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

ADDITIONAL PAGES MUST CONTAIN. THE HEADING "STATEMENT OF

_TAKEN AT DATED.

_CONTINUED." THE

BOTTOM OF"EAOR ADDITIONAL PAGE MUST BEAR THE INITIALS OF THE PERSON MAKING THE STATEMENT AND BE

INITIALED AS "PAGE..OF

_PAGES."

WHEN ADDITIONAL PAGES ARE UTILIZED, THE BACK OF PAGE 1 WILL BE LIN-

ED OUT, AND THE STATEMENT WILL BE CONCLUDED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF ANOTHER COPY OF THIS FORM.

FORM

DA, F0* 2820

REPLACES DA FORM 19-24. 1 SEP 62. WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

NW 64954 Docld:34529175 Page 2

---

## Page 3

STATEMENT (Continued)

I like serving in Vietnam better than in the States.

What is your attitude toward Us Policy in Vietnam? -

A.

From what I have read and what I know I think we should be here. I think we should

be

in Vietnam to keep communism from spreading.

Do you support the United States Constitution in its entirety? -

A.

A.

I do. -

I You owe your alleedance to the Uhited States?

A.

//

Do you have anything further to add to this statement? -

No.

iMM.

//END OF. STATEMENT//////,

////11

AFFIDAVIT

" Manuel Marti

HAVE READ OR HAVE HAD READ TO ME THIS STATE-

MENT WHICH BEGINS ON PAGE 1 AND ENDS ON PAGE

• I FULLY UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THE ENTIRE STATEMENT

MADE BY ME. THE STATEMENT IS TRUE. | HAVE INTTIALED ALL CORRECTIONS AND HAVE INITIALED THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE

CONTAINING THE STATEMENT. I HAVE MADE THIS STATEMENT FREELY WITHOUT HOPE OF BENEFIT OR REWARD, WITHOUT THREAT

OF PUNISHMENT, AND WITHOUT COERCION, UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE, OR UNLAWFUL INDUCEMENT.

Mart

WITNESSES:

(Signature of Person Making Statement)

WITHLIAM

TeN ROOK

1. 60)

", SPECIAL AGENT

55TH MI JETACHMENT (CORPS)

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a person authorized by law

10 administer oaths, this 26 day of _March

..19.69

at in Khe, Republic of Vietnam

onald Mi Murch

Signature of Person Administering Oat

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

INITIALS OF PERSON MAKING STATEMENT

19

DONATID M. MIYOSHI, SPECIAL AGNT

(Typed Name of Person Administering Oath)

UCMI 136b

(Authority To Administer Oaths)

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

PPC-Japan

NW 64954 Docld:34529175 Page 3

---

