JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10342-10123
RECORD SERIES: DE
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —ELSUR 92-490-172
Document Information 7
* ORIGINATOR: -. FBI
FROM: DE
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 01/18/1963
i" PAGES: 27
SUBJECTS :
ANTHONY GIACALONE, ELSUR
DOCUMENT TYPE: | PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32315405 Page 1


DE 92-490

in an effort to determine his activities and the identity of
individuals who might be contacting him in your Division.

DETROIT

AT DETROIT, MICHIGAN

1. Will interview PHILLIP J. BELLOMO, 5753
Marlborough, Office Room 426, Michigan Theater Building,
for information he might have, particularly with regard to
his trip to Miami with the Subject. He should be questioned
regarding whether or not they stopped at Buffalo, New York,
en route to Miami.

2. Will take appropriate action and report infor-
mation received from Informants in connection with the
activities of the Subject.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source Agent To thom Furnished
DE T-1 is KYRO T.

PEPLIANKOFF, PCI SA EDWARD J. HASON

DE T-2 is DE 878-C-TE : SA ROBERT N. FITZPATRICK
DE T-3 is DE 868-C SA BARRON fT. CONKLIN

DE T-4 is DE 889-C-TE SA WINSTON T. CHURCHILL

DE T-5 is GEORGE
CARDARELLI, PCI SA LEO C,. SHIRLEY

DE T-6 is DE 906-C#
DE T-7 is JAMES A. DRENNAN, PCI SA ROBERT 'N, FITZPATRICK
DE T-8 is BEATRICE EVANS, PCI SA LEO:C., SHIRLEY

-B-

NW 68262 Docld:32315405 Page 2



DE 92-490

Identity of Source
DE T-9 is SAM LEO LOBAIDO, PCI

~ Ce =

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32315405 Page 3

Agent To Whom Furnished
SA EVERETT J. BICKFORD



DE 92-825. —
4

woe

a)

The following description was obtained Peart

observation. and interview:

Name

Residence
Age

Date and place of birth

Height
Weight

Hair
Eyes — A
Complexion
Sears :
Education

Occupation

Social Security. Number

Army Serial Number

Marital status
Wife
Children

Father

Mother
Naturalization

Sister

. Cars

FILIPPO BELLOMO, algo known
as Philip Joseph Bellomo
5753. Marlborough

35

hearths 4, 1927, Grotte,
Sicily:

5te4n :

155. pounds

Black :

Brown, aie

Medium: 7... )\:.:

None

Eastern High School, Detroit;
University of, Detroit six
months.

Self-employed architectural
designer, 426 scan. Theatre
Building

382-20-1086

46055398

Married

THERESA BUSCEMI

ANTOINETTE, age 12
PAULINE, age 10

. JOSEPH, age 8

‘PATRICIA, age 6 .
JOSEPH BELLOMO, 3029 Ashland,
Detroit

ANTOINETTE BELLOMO, same address

Derivative through father

who was naturalized in Detroit
MARY BUSUITO, Huron Street,
Roseville, Michigan

1963 white Pontiac hardtop; |
1955' Chevrolet

NW 68262 Docld:32315405 Page 4

j
|
|

