JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10300-10034
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 92-5701-6
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: CREAMER, JOHN J. JR.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 01/21/1963
PAGES: iM
SUBJECTS :
APR, FAUGNO, ARMAND, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, REL,
EMP, CRIMINAL ACT, KONIGSBERG, HAROLD
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS 4
CURRENT STATUS Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

val

i John
fissassination Records Collection Act of

NW 68262 Docld:32309668 Page 1


: 1 :
ma... sig eat
a 7

| aan FEDERAL BUREAU OF hy ene on

Perey ofnca oF ORIGIN on iiReTigRTve Rice
NEWARK NEWARK "1/21/63 | 11/1/62 - 1/11/63
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
id) JOHN J, CREAMER, JR. qd
ARMA) FAUGNO, aka CHARACTER OF CASE .
AR

REFERENCES: Report of SA JOHN J; CREAMER, JR., dated 10/31/62,

at Newark,
Newark letter to New York, dated 12/21/62 (inter-

office).
ENCLOSURES
TO BUREAU (2)

Two copies of letterhead memo reflecting character-
ization of informants used in this report.

INFORMANTS
Identity of Sources

NK T+1 is NK 2181-C
NK T-2 is PCI LAWRENCE GLICKMAN

APPROVED fieaneeet ponorwntzmsracesenow Oi-Lid

COPIES MADE:

@ RS (92-5701) (gnexséy | 77 - es dl a L se

USA, Newark

2 - New York —— SEs mcm
2 - Newark (92-843)

to JAN 28 i969

7 On

NW 68262 Docid:32309668 Page 2



In

nee NE NK g 843

: unl STATES DEPARTMENT OF bce

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Newark, New Jersey

January 21, 1963

“ARMAND FAUGNO
ANTI-RACKETEER ING

Report of. Special Agent. John J. ‘Creamer, Jr., dated

‘ and captioned as above at. Newark.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

NK T-1 is an individual who is familiar with the
gambling and shylocking operations in the Hudson County, New
Jersey area.

NK T-2. is a convicted thief wis : is 8 familiaé with
gambling and shylocking activities in the Hudson’ County,
New eer area. oe

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is

:the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

, NW 68262 Docid:32309668 Page 3
