JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10278-10046
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2914-267
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI :
j FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
| TITLE:
DATE: 05/18/1962
PAGES: 12
i SUBJECTS :
GM, SMO, BKG, ASSOC, ILLEGAL ACT, BUSS, MEETING,
TRA, MM, FL, LV GAMBLING CASINOS, ARRESTED
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
- CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact

| DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

vd

24

NW 68262 Docld:32301211 Page 1


PG 92-236

INFORMANTS
The T-symbols utilized in this report will be the same,
where applicable, as those used in reports back to,
and including, that of 7/28/61:
PG T-1 is former PG 545-C
PG T-2 is PG 612-C
PG T-3 is PG 615-C

PG T-31 is PCI JAN SHRADER, who furnished information
to SA FRANK E, ALLISON 7

PG T-35 is PCI GENE H. MC CUTCHEON, who furnished
information to SAS DONALD G. FISCHER and FRANK E. ALLISON.

PG T-39 is PG 657-C-TE

PG T-42 is Detective Sergeant WILLIAM WARD (NA), Pittsburgh,
Pa.; Police Department, head of Rackets Squad. (protect per

request)

PG T-43 is PG 653-C-TE.

-B-
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32301211 Page 2

A


o4 A,
a

“ XS
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

In Reply, Please Refer to
FileNo 92-236 May 18, 1962

GABRIEL MANNARINO
ANTI -RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent
Thomas G. Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh, May 18, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants
used in referenced report:

PG T-1 is a Westmoreland County, Pa., real estate
speculator who has been consulted by the
MANNARINOS in the past.

PG T-2 is a New Kensington, Pa., numbers writer,

formerly connected with, prostitution activities.

PG T-3 is a physician, whose professional services have,

on occasion, been used by members of the
MANNARINO organization and who frequents
MANNARINO-controlled gambling and after-hours
establishments.

PG T-31 is a resident of the Turtle Creek Valley section
of Allegheny County, Pa., who is acquainted with

numerous gamblers,

PG T-35 is an individual who has worked in numbers
racket set-ups in Westmoreland County and
Allegheny County, both Pennsylvania.

PG T-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa,, gambler and club operator.

NW 68262 Docld:32301211 Page 3
