# docid-32989718

## Page 1

File #:

62-1164644

Serial Scope:

58- Bulky

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65360 Date: 11-17-2022

NW 65360 Docld:32939718 Page 1

---

## Page 2

94-75÷

62-116464-58

SUCTRRSATUUCATEES

The Attorney General

U.S: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELIIGENCE ACTVIS (HSC)

ReHSClet 7/22/75 req'ng materials and documnts

previously provided to SSC. Enclsd for ur aprovl

& Fortrang to HSC is orig of nemo w/ enclosurs

which r smtd as partial respns to abov cited of

HSC. A ce of this memo being furnshd for ur

records. "K."

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 2

---

## Page 3

271-10056

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 3

---

## Page 4

orgonie, leir lio. lò

UNITED STATES GOVERNANT

Memorandum

TO

Mir. A. H. Belmont

DATE:

10-15-63

FRON

:

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

SCHIỆCT:

COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO MOVE.

A CURRENT ANALYSIS

The enclosed article, captioned as above,. Is ine

one we have been preparing in line with approval of

recommendation to disseminate it on a select basis at a

very high level to show current communist activities in

relation to the Neggo movement.

It incorporates up-to-date

material jusi received from our New York Office relating

to the recent meeting of the Communist Party's National

Executive Committee.

Discussion of racial matters was

prinary topic at the week-long meeting.

The enclosed article is a factual, documented

analysis of the over-all current situation.

We believe

that it would be of interest not only to the Attorney General

but also to Mr. O'Donnell, at the White

. House; Mr. McCone, at

the Central Intelligence

Agency; Mr. Rusk, at the Department

of State;

as well as to Mr. McNamara and the three Armed Forces

intolligence agencies of the Defenge Department.

Accordingly,

if the article as prepared is approved, we propose to dis-

ari ate de to the afore mentioned andividuais and gentes r

RECOND'ENDATION

That the enclosed article be approved. If

appened,

it should be returned to the Domestic Intelligence Division

for preparation of

appropriate letters of transmittal.

This document is prenared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

patien outside anar Commitica.

I's car is timind to official procedungs by

anna Connie and the corint may not bi disclosed to unauthorized person

net without the expres approval of the fist

x44/4624.93

NW 65360 Docld: 32989718 Page 4

---

## Page 5

10/17/53

MIR. TOLSON:

• The attached analysis of

Communism and the Negro Movement is

highly explosive. Ii can e regarded as

ila personal

There is no doubt it will have

attack on Martin Lutherking.

a heavy

impact on the Attorney General and anyone

else to who we disseminate it..

It is

labeled TOY SECKET. However, even

such

high classification seems to be no bar

today to a leak, and should this leak out

it will add fuel to a matter which may

already be in the cards as a political

issue during the forthcoming Presidential

campaign.

The memorandum makes good reading and

is based on information from reliable sources.

We may well be chaiged, however, with

expressing opinions and conclusions, parti-

cularly with reference to some of the

statements about king.

We must do

our duty. H

This memorandum may stagule the Attorney

General, particularly in view'of his past

association with king, and the faci that ve

are dissominating this outside the Department.

He may resent this.

Nevertheless, the

momorandum is a powerful warning against

Communist influence in

the regro movement.

and we will

be carrying out our responsibility

by dissominating it to the people indicated

1 in tae attached memoran duou

I am glad that →

you recognize

-x.

ів мт,

tastes

at last that there

Lir

exists such influence.H

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissema-

nation outside your Committee.

lis ise a binated to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express. approval of the FBI.

NW 65360 .Docld:32989718 Page 5

---

## Page 6

i: OPMONAL IGIL NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNVENT

Memorandurn

TO

•A. H. Belmont

DATE: 10-18-63

FROM :

W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT:

COMTUNISM AND THE NEGRO 1-23

A CURRENT ANALYSI

minatar

192--

Re my memo in captioned matter 10-15-63, attached, in.

I which it was reconmended and approved that we cisseminate tie

prepared analysis regarding communist activities and tha Negro roverant

on a select basis to incividuals and agencies set forth in referenced ramo.

Attached are appropriate letters of transmittal for

dissemination. Through theza, to are senduty & coby oi the analysis to

the Attorney Coneral, with a copy each for the Deputy Attorney Canerai,

and the Assistant

Attorneys Ceneral Burle Marshall and. Walter Yeagley.

In addition, a copy is being sent as an enclosure to attached letters for

P. Kenneth O'Donnell, Special Assistant to the President; the Eonorable

Dean' Fust, Socretary of State; tha Monorable John A. lEcCone, Director O1

Central Intelligence Agency; the Honorable Robert S. LicNamara, Secretary Of

Defense; Fear Alrairal Rufus I. Taylor, Director Of Naval Intelligence;

Major General Alva Pu. Fitch, Assistant Chief of Staff for Army Intelligeace;:

and Brigadier General John S. Sanduel, Director of Special Investigations

pier for the Air Force.

RECONNENDATION:

That the attached letters be approved and sent

:..'-Enclosures

risis.

.. "..

1623682000

This documicha

pered in respmise to your request and is not for dissemi

outside man Committec.

die us. 2s emaen to ofacil moreedings bụ

:and the content man not be disclosed to unauthorized veison-

manit the Eloress approval of thc. FBl

NW/65360 Docid:32989718 Page 6

---

## Page 7

The Attorney General

October 18, 1963

DirectoI, FBI

"CONNUNISE AND THE MEGSO POVERONI --

A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

There is enclosed a copy of a curcent stuay

dealing with cormunist activities

in relation to the Negro

,movement.. A copy of this document is being

furnished

to the Honorable P. Kenneth O'Donnell, special Assistant

to the President, and to other interested officials of

the Government.

entitled

"Communish he the de to venent a case entrysis,"

have furnished ruliable infornation in the past,

because of

their sonsitive nature, the document has been

classifica

"Top seciüt." Upon renoval of classified

enclosure, this letter beconnes unclassified.

Freligina

1 - The Deputy Attorney General (Enclosure)

•1 - fir. Burke Marshall (Enclosure)

Assistant Attorney General

1 - Ar. J. Walter Yeagley (Enclosure)

Assistant Attorney General

This document is prepared in resprus In your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Commitree.

his use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to

unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 65360-Docld:32989718-Page-7

---

## Page 8

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable P. Kenneth O'Donnell

special assistant to the rresident

The White House

Hashingion, i. C.

Dear ir. C'Donnell:

• =

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Concunist and the Nearn lovemant

A Curcent Analysis."

Copies of this decument are being

icemaneu

iu interusiod orficiais of the

povernment.

The sources

used in the enclosuse have furnished

reliable infornation in the past, and broause of their

sensitive nature, the document has been classifica "Top

secret." Upon renoval of classified

enclosuse, this

letter baconas unclassified.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosura

This document is prepared in resprar

nation outside your Comnuttee.

your Committee and the content may nut be disciosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the fBl.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 8

---

## Page 9

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable Dean Rusk

ine secretary oi state

vastington, i

Dear it. Rusk:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Communisn and the Negro movement

& Current mnalysis."

Cupies in this

docuuent ase bring

furnished io interested officials of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable inforation in the past,

and because of their

sensitive natuss, the document has been classifiod "Top

secrüt." Upon renoval of classified enclosure, this

letter becomes unclassified.

sincerély yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared a response to you request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

vour Committee on the mitent mas to dises to to lit oceedings on

nel without the capress approval of the FBI .

NW 65360-Đocld:32989718-Page-9

---

## Page 10

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable John A. McCone

Director

Central. Intelligence Agency

washington, D. C.

Dear Ni. LicCone:•

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

currene study entztleed

A cursent Analysisi".

denis and sunt along -

Furnishod to Incrested officials oi the osvernment.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past.

and heralsa of thaig

sensitive nature, the

docunent has been classified "Top

Secret." Upon renoval of classified enclosure, this

letter

bocomes unclassified.

Sincerely Yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

:

• I'has document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Comnittee.

dis use 25 limited to official proceedings b

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unuuthorized verson

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 65360-Docld:32989718 Page 10

---

## Page 11

October 18,

1963

BY LIAISON

Honorable Robert S. I.CNamara

The sccretary of Defense

Washington, D. C.

Dear liz. liCNamara:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosca

current study entitled "Connunisi and the Negro lovement-

A Current snalysis."

Copies di this docudent ara being

fuznished

to interusted otracials of co, juvuenner.

The sources used in the enclosure have fuznished

= 1zable infoncation in the past, era hogause of their

sensitive natures the docimont has beon classifiod "Top

Secrut."

upon renoval or classiiica enclosure, this

letter becomes unclassified.

Sincercly yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Tament in in rest ten date not see dissemin

nation outside your Committee.

official. proceedings by.

your Commutice and the mient may nut be disclosed to unanthorized person-

nel without the cines my mart of the FBI.

NW 65360-Docld:32989718 Page 11

---

## Page 12

October 18,1963

• . BY LIAISON

Rear Admiral Rufus L. Taylor

Director of Naval intelligence

The Pentagon

Washington, D. C.

vear Admiral laylor:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Communisa and the legro rovement

A Current inalysis."

Copies of

this. document are being

furnished to interasted officials of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosur have furnished

reliable information in the past, and because of theis

sensitive nature, the aocurent has been classified "Top

sécret." loon removal of classiiied enclosure,.

this

letter becomes unclassified.

...=

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

EnClOSUre

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to officiul procecdings by

your committed one fr, in and mad nut be disclosed to manthorized person

nel without the : ::""

.? of ti FBI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 12

---

## Page 13

October 18, 1963

** BY LIAISON

Lajor General Alva R. Fitch

Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

Department of the Army

The Pentagon

irashington, D. C.

Dear General Fitch:

e thought you would ho intericted in the enclosod

current study entitled "Communism and the Negro lovement--

A Curtent Analysis." Copies of this document are being

furnished to interested officials of the Coveenment.. .

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable inforation in the past, and because of their

sensitive noture, the document has been classified "Iop

Upon removal of classified enclosure, this

lotter becomes unclassified.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official procecdings o?

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nei without the express approval of the FBI .

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 13

---

## Page 14

October 18, 1963

BY LIAISON

Brigadier Genoral John S. Sanuel

Director of special investigations

The inspector Goneral

During tomo the Air Force

Fourth and Aidans Drive, s. W.

washington, D. C.

Door General Samuel:

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitled "Consuniom and the Mogco novemont

A Current Analysis."

Copies of this docurent are being

¡urnichod to intarstar nificials of the dovernmont.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past, and because of their

sensitive nature, the document has been classified "Top

sscret."

Upon renoval of classified enclosure, this

letter becomes unclassified.

sincercly yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Ils use a limited to official proceedings by

your Committce and the content may nut be disclosed to unuthorized verson

nel without the erpress

approval of the FbI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718_ Page_14

---

## Page 15

• есех но. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

ENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. BELIVONT

DATE: Cctober 25, 1963

FROM:

C. A. EVANS

SUBJECT:

COMMUNISM AND THE

NEGRO MOVEMENT

•

The Attorney General telephoned at approximately a. a.m.

He advised that he had tried to call the Director who was temporarily out of

, the building. The Attorney General stated he had just learned that the Army

had received a copy of a report submitted to the Attorney General about the

communist activities of Martin Luther King.

The Attorney General was reich p

to the report captioned "Communism and the Negro Movement -- A Current.

Analyses, " dated October 16, 1963.

• There is no question this is the report

to which he is referring:

although he persisted on calling it the report on the

¡communist background of Martin Luther King.

The Attorney. General said he would like to know what other

dissemination was made of this report in addition to the Army and the purpose

for such dissemination. He was obviously irritated. He went on to.ask if the

Army got copies of all reports submitted to him.. I told the Attorney General that

obviously the Army did not get copies of all reports we sent to him personally,

but that there were hundreds of reports that did go to the Army that did not

concern matters of suificient importance to warrant the Attorney General's persona?

attention. I pointed out to him that we regularly submitted some type of reports

lin matters of current interest under our Internal Security jurisdiction, and that

dissemination of these summaries was made to the military authorities as well

as other top governmental officials because of responsibilities they have in this

connection.

The Attorney General asked what responsibilities the Army had in

frelation to the communist background of Martin Luther King. I told the Attorney

General the report went beyond this and that the Army had an interest in communist

(activities particularly in relation to racial matters because the military had to be

calla on if civil disturbances arising out of such matters went beyond the ability

•of the civilian authorities.

This explanation seemed to serve no purpose.' The Attorney General

said he still could not understand why we sent a report to the Army on King's

communist activities. He reiterated his request for information as to the dissemina

tion of the report in question and the purpose for it.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Memorandum to Mr. Belinont

RE: COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO MOVEMENT

ACTION TO BE TAKEN:

We are getting together the facts regarding the dissemination

of this report and the basis therefor which will be incorporated in a

memorandum for the Attorney "Genéral.

she is satra find.

This document is prepared in response to you remest and is not for dissemi-

nation onúsile on Commitice.

a timing to official prececangs o3

voar Committe and the contend may

be disclosed to unauthonzed person

nel without the capress approval of the FBI .

NW 65360 • Docld:32989718 Page 16

---

## Page 17

sinea

THE ATTOINEY GONRRÁL

Octobar 20, 1963

DireCtOI, IBI

COM-UBISM AND TAS RICHO MOWSIT-

CINRaNT ATILTEIO

towiiiaeo ificr494562isstss.om

Ti.th roference to your inquiry conceming tha -

desenination of tho suanary propared undoz cate oi

Dotovei 16, 1053, captionad "Coumunion and.

ElO MeNTO

Moyenonind Curtost Analy0z5

T."HS yOu Nel'e

advised an my

Totudi dated Ccusbor 10,

100üy

this assoraodam nas dissats

antodion a. "Top socret" begie do lionorabo 2. Konneta P'soanells

MACCLAL À9S2G4OD& ỦO ChO LOGILOnE, MN6 CO OUhI 1N00r0S504

oisicials os tic govoznment.

Theue incluceu:

Thie Honoruble

Decu bush, Rocrotasz of Soate; The Honosable john &. Lodeno,

Directoz oễ che Conorai Lacclligonee Agonoy; Tao Lonozablo

HONOre S. 100Haia

-Se796027.0x 40x01223

2002' Addiroi Ruzus L

paylos,

Dirocion ei harai insciiisonce:

Bitcd,

"Lojos Conczal Alvia: ii.

Assistnnt Chier Oi

SEeRN dOd

nany incollageuee;

Brigadide ronozal Jolm G. Gannoi, Dizcctor oi

tucois: Invcsti

gatoas jur the dig forgg; ead Conoral D. 4. Choop, Conoandont

oï tho

darine Co-29-

'МО! ДАТН

In riow of the intorest which thoso Individuals and

onganicacions baco

iu couranisa dud ibe atconpoo to inciltraio

varions gxoupd and accirities in te incrican coomunaty, it bas

been oui stanuard prococuzo to paziodacally dásceniazue to thou

infor0uu1od thich incioaing tho comuniat oizoria in thas connec-

tron, and in this penticules dastance ve roilouod tho ustai

procEdurO.

sith reterence to the risconination to the aruy, tio

ArnW has apocificaily zomunaied tau, in vicu of 10e 19a00ai

Dizzty for the ceasrol oi

aciivitic, and rononsirabions boyong

The capscloy oi Loons 2a0n02er

wo deuD ts charonily auviso,

cossunist cctiraidos

tie taca! dip d and an odder, croag

which might rosult in uenonstratleng or casfigultios

This docament is picpared in response to your request und is not for dissemi-

insing owisile your Commeilee.

I's use is linited to official moceedinas by

•Cammittee aid the content may not of risciosed to unauthorzed person-

hul inithout the express approval of the FBl .

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 17

---

## Page 18

OPTIGMAL FORM NO. SO

MAT 19AZ 19111ON

SEA, 81G, NO.39

UNITED STATES

Memorandumi

010-106

MENT

• Mi.-W. C. Sullivan

DATE:

October 25, 1963

FROM

D. J. Brennan, JI.

SUBJECT:

PER TOP SOLE DOORE TE

NARING CORDS,

"COMMUNISH AND THE NEGRO MOVEMENT - .

A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

On 10/24/03, Major Henry &. Marshall, Counterintel igence

Branch, U.

So marine Corps, personally requested a cogy da captiaca

Dineesor

o Naval intclligence.

which had been disseminated to Admizal Ruzus Taylor, Commandont

fomation and inasmuch as his office had not been furnished this

dain, he requested that an extra copy be disseminated i him.

In accordance with taneral Shoup's request,

a copy was

fumished to Major Marshall on 10/24/65.

Major Marshall was Impressed

with the extremely sensitive nature of the information set forth

in. the document and was appropriately admonished to insure that

proper security is afforded it.

ACTION:

For Information.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside now Committee.

Its ase is limited to official proccedinos oy

your Commit e aul the content ma! not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBi .

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 18

---

## Page 19

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

MASHINGION 25, D.C.

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

4:14 p.m.

October 25, 1963

MEMORANDUM TO M2U. TOLSON I

MR. BELMONT

VIR. MOHR.

MR. DE LOẠCH

MR. ROSEN

MR. SULLIVAN

The Attorney, General called and advised me there was

a lot of talk at the Pentagon regarding the document, Communism

and the Negro-A"Current Analysis, dated 10-16-63, which had

been disseminated to the military and intelligence agencies by the

Bureau. The Attorney General anticinated that this information

would leak out as the military didn't like the Negroes.

: The Attorney General felt we should get back all copies

of the document. I told him we had a tally of all copies and we

would get them from all agencies to which they were disseminated.

The reason to be given for recalling wouid be revisions. I also

• told him if any newspapers asked about this, no comment would be

made and no mention would be made that such a document existed.

wlnllllceedo.dddbaGdoed1..l50:69030.07.l0ia200-.0901060.d.31

4:40 p.m.

I advised the Attorney General that Liaison repre-

sentatives had been sent to get all copies of this document.

The Attorney General wants all copies disseminated to

Department officials recalled also:

• ::::

document is preparcil in response to your request und is not for desem

very. truly yours,

Is 11Se 25

Paraz

without the carried ciroral.of the

SIS?

Palesce

to unachorse dison

John Edgai Hoover

Director.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 19

---

## Page 20

November ?, 1053

MCRICLANDUN TO MR. TOLSON:

MIL. BELMONT

• MR. DS LOACH

MIZ. ROSEN

ME. SULLIVAN

En October 20, 1003, to Attornsy Conoral called at say alica

and discussed a number of zuntiera.

."..

JEH

This document is roped eroe

nation orient?

? 00191

nel without the c..s

06115601012

j3ree: 1d is unt for dissemi-

marial groceedines by

sui seil to unauthorized person-

i the dist

32469272

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 - Page 20

i:

---

## Page 21

alemorandum to diesars. Tolsca, Belmost, DeLoach,

FOsca, sullivan

Noveraber: 7, 1263

The Attornay Genaral then mentioned the recent mcnograph on

Comountara in tho racial situatica. lie statod ibat the Defonae-Dapartment

non acrised bin of it. I told him tat he had nico boon furntonca & copy 3t

the saine tize that we bad made distribution to the Defense Departmort,

the sinite fiouse, tho Contral lielligence Agancy, and the State Doparimoni.

no protod tiet ho was quito concerned about tha contenta because walle it

dic not State that ling masa Communist, covertbeloss, one could mulesly

draw that conclucios. I told hint that evory distement ando in tho documont

was accurate aad cupported by facis.

In stated he of course roalleed thin but felt that it would be

dosirable to recall all ci le docamonte bacauca ho did set know wto olsa

migui cop ll other then those to whom to had clatricuice tho documont. i

told tho Attornay Goneral that his request would be iracdiatoly acted upos,

and aitor the atrornoy Coreral loit my citico I communicated with

dir. Echont and ashod bian to see that all cozlos o too document bad

been ostained and host in cocurity.

Very truly yours,

LER

John Edgar Hoover.

Director

ste.

i ese jesse is.

I'nas document as picnared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside

l l cran to officil proccedings by.

ne elsilosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

*NW 65360*Ööcld:32989718-Page21

---

## Page 22

"JECT:

OPTIORiAL ICAN MO. 10

кат 1887 8611107

GSa GIN. PIG. NO. 87

UNITED STATES GOVEANMENT

Memorandum

W..C. Sullivan

DATE: 10-25-63

J. A. Sizoo

COMMUNISMI AND TEE NEGRO ISOVEN2IN2--

• A CURRENT ANALYSIS

In accordance with Mr. Belmont's instructions yesterday,

liaison Agents contacted the various incivicuals to wom copies of our

memorandum, captioned as above dated Cctober 15, 1955, were sent,

except Ir. C'Donnell and the officials in the Justice Department.

We have now recovered copies which had been designated™

to Honorable Dean Fusk, Secretary of State; The Eonorable John A. McCone,

Director of the Central Intelligence Agency; The Honorable Robert S.

Mcitamara, Secretary Ci Defense; Rear Admiral Fufus L. Taylor,

Director of Naval Intelligence; Major General AlviF. Fitch, Assistant

Chief of Staft for Army Intelligence; Brigadier General John S. Samuel,

Director of Special Investigations for the Air Force; and General D. M.

Shoup, Commandant of the Marine Corps. In each instance, a specific

inquiry was made as to whether or not any copies of the document had

been prepared and in each instance the answer was in the negative.

As it now stands, the persons haing copies outside the Bureau

fare the Attorney General, Eonorable P. Kenneth O'Connell at the White

House, the Deputy Attorney Ceneral, Assistant Attorney General Marshall,

and Assistant Attorney Ceneral J. Walter Yeagley.

Get copies back from those underlined

•This document as nepared an respase to your request and as not for dissem-

nation outside your Commitee.

your Commutice and the content

¿ger is lied in official proceerangs by

nel without the express .appior

i not ! asclosed to unaunorced person

oj the rsi

V.

Mistry

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 22

---

## Page 23

10/28/63

Communism and the Negro Movement -

A Current Analysis

Distribution was made to:

The Attorney General

Deputy Attorney General

Assistant Attorney General Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General iarshall

Secretary of State Rusk

Hon., P. Kenneth O'Donnell - White House

Hon.

John A. McCone - Director, CIA

Hon. Robert S. liciamara, Secretary of

Defense

General Alva R. Fitch, Asst. Chief of

Staff for Army Intelligence

Rear Admiral Rufus I. Taylor, Director

of Naval Intellience

Brig. Gen. John S. Samuel, Director of

Special Investigations, Air force

General D. M. Shoup, Commandant of

the liarine Corps

Copies have been recovered from all the

above except, CiDonnell of the white House,

the Attorney

General, Deputy Attorney General,

Assistant Attorneys General Yeagley and

Marshall.

- dintirro

Per Director's instructions, ve are recover~

Ing those to the Deputy Attorney General,

Assistant Attorneys General.

Yeagley and

Marshall.

..

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Commitce.

I'a ese as limatre to officeal mioceedings oy

vour Communee aid the content men mut be casciosch to unauthorized person

nel without the expicss approval of the FBl :

Ma of tod

NW 65360-ĐöCid:3298

---

## Page 24

DOR

-#FICE OF DIRECT

FEDER.

BUREAU OF INVESTI

DATION

UNITER STATES DEPEETMENT OF JUSTICE

October 28,

4:00 pm

•Mi: Belmont says as a matter of

interest, we have recovered the

copies of the document Communism

and the Negro lovenent-a Current

Analysis",

fron Assistant Attorney

Generals Marshall and Yeagley,

and in addition, the Attorney Gelleras:

has returned his copy.

Ken O'Donnell called Evans and

said he is sending his copy

over to the Bureau..

hwg

au espier tame tard

18-6-53

This document is panace an respouse to un irouest and is not for dissema

nation outer? :

"register..

your Commitd. ae

16,.n1 1:

;: " mused io inauthorised persov-

nel without the cipress actroval of the EBI.

is .

-1:17.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 24

---

## Page 25

OPTIONAS ICAM MO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA CIA. PIG. MO. '28

UNITED STATES GOVEL MENT

Memorandum

TO

Mir. W. Co Sullivan.

DATE: October 28,

1963

FROM : NI. J. A. Siz00

SUBJECT

CONIUNI SM AND TEÉ NEGRO LOVEMENT --

A CURRENT ANALYSIS.

In accordance with the Director's instructions on the attached

menorandun, we have on also retrieved sha copies of the concicica

which were sent to the Deputy Attorzey Caseral esc

Assistani Atiorneys Ceneral Marshall and Yeagley.

Warshall

handed to Is. Evans the Atsorney General's copy which la scid res

being recurned to the bureau on the attorney Ceneral's instructions.

i "hile talking vith-r. P. Kenneth O'Donnell at the Whito House

on another natter toddy,

did. O:Donnell advised Mr. Evans that he

is sending his copy of this memorandum back to the Bureau.

Therefore,

all copies which vere disseminated out of the Bureau will have been

returned.

This document is prepare in response to be request and is not for dismi

nation outsir

you Cormi" e uni the corent may note: cinosid to unauchorized persoir

nel without the express approval of the fBI .

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 25

---

## Page 26

11192?9e

5:51 AB

February 5; 1904

MEMORANDUS FOR MR. TOLSON

MIR. BELLIONT

MR. ROSEN

MIE. SULLIVAN

MIR. DE LOACE

MI. EVANS

The attorney General called and stated ho had heard that there has

been some decussion about & soport on martin Luther king before the rooney

Committee and also some discussion about the jopartmont di Justico wanied

to Fecall that report and ho, the Attorney General, wanted to recall our COu

rsization about it because someone got the impression he, the Attorney Genera

requested it be rocalled. I told the Attorney Genoral that tha only discussion 1

beiore the rooney Committee was olf the record;

The Allorncy Ceneral stated he understunds that thay are saying he lad request

it ba withdrawn. I stated it was nothing oi the kind; that in other words ho, ll

¡the Attorney General, and I hud talked about it several tiaes and he had

questioned the wisdom oi its astribution and 1 indicateu & would have tha copies

windrawn and l cü. The attorney General statod ho alu not vant so puro dis

Luca that ne had requestos it. d statoo both ai us had deares a leni migh

get

¡Out 150n: the Departments which had copies of the monograph; and it it y

isappened during a sensitive timo of negutiationg going on with the Negro

¡cadars, it would have caused a ruckus insofar as king was concorned.

This dociment is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

JEE

nation outside man Committee. l's use as lace to official proicedings by

your Commatec mud the concht may noe be lusclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 65360 Docid:32989718 Page 26

---

## Page 27

February 5, 1004

Senorardue for djesers.

Tolson, Belmont, Rosen, Sullivan, DeLoach, Evana

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Pagé 27

---

## Page 28

!."%.

February 5, 19t4

Mersoranduma for ilessrs. Tolson, Belmoat, Mosen, Sullivan, DoLoach, Evang

: 2.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Febrary 5, 196d

iemorandam ior Mêsers: Folson, Balmont, Mêsea, Eullivan, Dalcach, Erase

•1.

Very traiy gours,

aridamer

ійб...

dohn Lugar EêЭ7ê*

Birector

ії..

=.....

NW 65360 Qocld:32989718 Page 29

=4=

---

## Page 30

Mr. N. C. Sullivan

Нк. D. б. Brennan, Jx.

HATH LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER C

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA

COSINESE INCUDUCE IN LACIAL WAITERS

IVANANAL SECUNIE

1-2-61

Ms. E. B. Wollõ, Bureau of Intolligeace and Rosearch,

Dopertment of Stato, ndvised Liaison Agent Bartlett that

thonas laghos, the Directos o1 the Puroon of Intollipance and

Research, had a talls wish the Diroctor on Friday nimhe

3-20-01 ind ino cisecior nenexoned chat Kastin Luthor King, dee,

vas untes ocanunsro diceanline and that the Bareau bad many

reposts ca ling.

Ax. Voids sodd that lic. Hures has asked 11

the Dureau con inchash him with the peasanent soports on ling

so that ho wáll have a bosses undercurading of shis individua

and particularly of the conmunis influence exerted over liu.

BECOMINDATION:

That the Liaison congesentative daliver the attached

copy of our "Ton Sacret" cocuzant capilosed "Coununisa and

the Negro lovement • 1 Curzent Analysas" to Mi. Hughos at

the Dapartzont of State.

An. Jughes wikd bo parmitted to

read the accument; thereafter, the Liaison reprosentatlve

will return it to the bureau.

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside mour

• Committee.

Its ame is limited to official proceedings ou

vour Commitice and the content may noi be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI :

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 30

---

## Page 31

•ЮнА PORM No. 10.

• UNITED STATES. GOVE,

Memorandu.

TO

sir. W. C. Sullivan.

DATE:

4/3/64

VOUr

PROM

Conne and the comest may noi

SUBJECT

Isido 10?1

amrouel-of the

Commotie.

mrepared in response.

,*

be disclosed

limited to official proceedings by,

W0 request and is not for dissemi

J. Brennan, JI.

SECURITY LATTER -Co

JR.

SECURITY MATTER -

(Bufile: 100-106670)

COMMUNIST PARTY; USA

NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

(Bufile: 100-3-116)

Mr. #. B. Wells, Bureau of Intelligence and ?

Research, Department of state, advised Linison Agent

Bartlett that Thomas Hughes, the Director of the Bureau of

Intelligence and Research,

had a tals with the Director on

FIlday night 3/20/64 and ine virector mentioned Inac

Martin Luther king, JI., was under communist disCipLine

and that the Bureau had many reports on ling. Mr. "ells

said that Mr. Hughes has asked if the Bureau can furnish,

him with the pertinent reports on King so that he will. I

have a better understanding of this individual and particularly

of the communist influence exerted over bin.

RECOLLIENDATION:

That the Liaison representative deliver the

attached copy of "Top Secret" document captioned

"Communism and the Negro Movement • A Current Analysis"

to Mr. Hughes at the Department of State.

Mr. Hughes will

be permitted to read the document; thereafter, the Liaison

representative will return it to the Bureau.

We will not

permit Hughes to retain this document as it is the same one

which we gave selective high level and limited dissemination

In October, 1963, and then had all copies turned back to the

Bureau.

7-64

eunuorkandes

Enclosure

ee 6049/7/6461

the day,), No

MWd65360_ Docid:32989718 Page 31

attached,

document

shaued he

dispe ayed

since ay was

as in its recas

---

## Page 32

December 1, 1904

BY LIAISON

Honorablo Eill D. 50y0r3

spocinl fosistani to the President.

liashargion, D. C.

Dent' Mir, loyors:'

I thought the President vould be

interested in the oncloss current study

A Cuszent Mnalysis."

Yous advice is icquestos as to

whother ne should dissoninato this document

to rooponsibio outicialn in the ssccuiive

• Branch of the Covernmont.

The sourcos uned in the enologuro

have furnistod colinate intoradison in che

20564: 200. 0062959. 04.600271998926479-794239

CHO COCKIONE

has boon clacstfied "gon

382zct

Upon Failovel

of the classiciod enciosure, this

loiter bucoues unclassiiiod,

Sincercly yours,

Ta2107139

j. Edgar. Hoover

This document is nrepared lu response to your request and as not for disser

nation outside mann Commie.

Ils:: is janited to official procecaungs

your Commitire cod tu concot imy n' b. disciosed to unauthorized persc

not without the

Se Bra of lie Tri

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 32

---

## Page 33

•UNTTED STATES GOI

ÝMENT

Memorandumi

TO

Mr. A. A. Belmont

DATE: November 22, 1964

FROM :1. C. Sulliván...

SUBJECT:COLLIUNISH AND TEE NEGRO

LOVELENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS

Enclosed is a paper, captioned as above, which depicts the conmunis

influence in the legro morement with emphasis on liartin Luther King, jr.

This paper is an un-to-date revision of the one by the same title prepare

under the date of October 16, 1953. In updating. it we enphasized thiee

nain arcas: (1) the continued dependence of king upon former Comunist

Party, USA menbers, current and former Party sympathizers and his continu

reliance on the long-tine communist i

(2)

(technical surveillance information)

. land (3) the recent and current.

Party ains and activities relative to the racial-novement.

PECO LINDATIO!I:

Upon approval, consideration vill be given to appropriate dissemina

t10n." When approved, the paper should be returned to the Domestic

Intelligonce Division lor printing. aud the preparacion of appropriate

Letters it disseminated.

Enclosure

White House

State

CIA

Anniy, Nauy, AuR toRiE

1...1.0.06.6.d d Gda. Mi.

This document is prepared in resuse touri canest pad is not for dissemi

malion out? Me: Contri

!.?.::!':

C 18 1 6011

ma! no he disclosed to unuuthorized person

nel without the cupress appril of ile l'Bl.

tod and: 3

• oci.

9: 32/5006y202/03029 03029 Siscca Sisce Ng Sai:

NW 65360 Docid:32989718 Page 33

---

## Page 34

пожав ножн но. 10

N8R GEN. PL%, MO 89

• UNITED STANTES GO' ENNIENT

Niernorandum

:

kr. A. I. Belmont

DATE: 11/27/64

:

Hr.

1 C. Sullivan

JEC:T

"CONCTUNISI AND THE NEGRO.

HOVENENT-A CURRENT ANALISIS"

Hy memorandum to you 11/22/64 subsitted for approval

a paper, captioned as above thich depicts the communist influence

in the Negro movenopt with euphesis on tartin Luther king, Ji.

top paragraph, to show that on 11/24/64 king conses

ard asked that

and

GUAMIC TITO-MINUTO

speechos which king could use in accopüing the Nobel Leuce Prize.

King sould select the best material iron these speeches.

I have checked with lir. Mohr and lx. Deloach wau nave

advised that they have read this paper.

It Is contemplated that dissemination will be made

under londay's date (11/30/64), if approved, to the following

individuals:

The Honorable Bill D. Hoyers, Special Assistant to

the President, The

White House

1I. Burke Marshall, Assistant.

Attornoy General, and il. J. Walter Yeagley,

Assistant Attorney General

The Honorable Dean Pusir,

The Honorable John A. Mccone,

The Secretary of State

Director of Central

Intelligence Agency

The Honorable Carl T. Rovan, Director of United States.

ent wein. Infoimation Agency

The Honorable Robert S. lchamara, The Secretary of

.v

idiajor General Edgar C. Dolemali, Assistant Chief of

Stati for Intelligence, Department of the Army

Rear soniral Rufus L. Taylor; Director of Naval

Intelligence,

Daparthent ot the navy

"*=*: ""COlONaL JOSCOh . ULRDUCCi, DITECtOI aI UDECIAL

¿Investigations, The Inspector Genial, Department

"'of: the Air Force

Leutennt denerch Joseph ri carroli, Director, Detense La

Intelligence Agency

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 34

---

## Page 35

Memorandum to Mr, A. H. Belmont

RE:

"COLLIUNISH AND THE NEGRO

HOVEHENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS!

RECOLMENDATION:

That the attached transmittal letters be approved

and sent.

serfore, too

This document is prepared in responac to your request and is not.for dissemi-

nation outside nou Commiter.

l's use do 17ed to ofteral proceediags by

your Commutice add the content may not i, disciosed to unauthorized person

nel without ile express approval of the EBI.

252224.026

•2201

Poison

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 35

---

## Page 36

ROM

UBJECT:

OPTIONA: FORM NO, 10

s0ia-100

MAY IPEZ ADITION

OSA GEN. RIG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Monr

C. D. DeLoach

MARTIN LUTHER RING

DISSEMINATION OF MONOGRAPH

DATE: December 7, 1964

Bill Moyers, Special Assistant to the President, called me on Friday,

12/4/64, to indicate that he. and the President had read the Director's letter in connecticn

vith possible dissemination of captioned monograph. He stated it was both his and the

President's opinion that the FBI should disseminate this monograph if it was felt that

dissemination would be in the best interest of internal security.

I told Moyers that under the circumstances he appeared to be telling me

that we should go ahead and disseminate. He answered in the affirmative.

ACTION:

For record purposes.

ADDENDUM, 12/7/64 - Attached are

appropriate letters, disseminating

this monograph to appropriate government

officials.

A. H. Belmont

Enclosures

This document a mienared an iccarose to y0r request and is not for dissemi-

we Commitsec.

and Conmten ai he coricht may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel withuit the caprios approval of the FBI .

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 36

---

## Page 37

December 7, 1964

BY LIAISON

Honorable Robert S. lchanara

The Secretary of Defense

Washington; D. C.

Dear li. ricilanara:

I thought you would be interosted in the

Copics oi this

document are being furnistica to interestod officials

of the Government.

The sources used in the enclosure have

runnished p01iab10 inicoration in the past, and because

mag cenartave natune, the document has been

classiciod "rop secret.

Upon ronoval of classified

enclosina, this letteï becomes unclassirled.

SIncerely YOUrS,

J. Edgar Hoover

…!.!

...'

20.d6462483

Ple is

Moses lined to official procedungs b?

mour Commit ca.

" • conic

nel without the caprcos approval of the ZBl.

' may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

i red in dos do disas

NW/ 65360 Docld:329897,18 Page 37

---

## Page 38

asuate

December® 7!, 1964

BY LIAISON

Honorable John A. MeCone

Direcion

Central invelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear fr. licCone:

I thought you would be interested in the

enclosed current siudy enbluled "Cormuntan and the

Negto r'ovorant--1 Cuvoni Analysii.

Copies of this

docurenü ars being furnished to interestod orficials

of the dovornaent.

The sources used In the enclosure have

furnished voliable Infonraiioh in the pasü,

and pecause

o1 tneir vensivivo mtiro, the dvcisont bed boon

classifiod "Foo Secrat."

Upon romoval of classified

enclosure, this lettor beccmes

unclassificd.

Sincerely yours,

Hn9994

'Enclosure

J. Edgar Hoover

-oeG! l?10 00d•

lleo Gooede lã.0l0 le0000 d'0 la0d. 1e

.. ...

'-"".

........

tot woe datcae Gpor toe phe Wort trrdgey ydoegeewee fyt/lesedtduotcecr

/htpww/cl@cdo@ecneecndulodApcaaowdwadeshde.cec5ed002202s%y

This documont is xrewaredin response to "e"e su is nat for naema-

nation muir moo Coumiice.

1 et. ail proceoinis by

your Cormi ? and the contous miey not 7

muciel to unanthoriseà persoir

nel. wwnow.theearess.@yrewel.ou.thea.og./@rec.t.o00/aut

106c2 c016468/0r06649466 2os c09ccCedcag662atroe 2oeoaS

"wütüpai duiitii Min'ie cr.i

:sci'es...

;Td.

jagido c'?a

*'..

NW 65360 Decld:32989718 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Bec ember 7, 1964

BY LEAZOON

ReEr Adairal Buzza Le Faylor

Direcios cd Taval Uncellagcaca

Dopurtacut of the Nary

Tho Sorragon

Washington, D.

DozI ACIlial Taylor:

I thought rou would be intercuted in tho

onclosed canent concy catacied "Gonzan and the fogic

Hoveronial Guzzont Aaaiyodo."

000109 09 3036

¿counont moe boing furaéched to seccroacod octacicio

ot the Coverziont.

The SOFICCE ISOd 1a CiO CuClOSIO havO

EUNIONCE TOLICRIO 242C224101 2 810 P2ES

"dop Becrot."

loos sonovni po cleocladed

encicsure, this jotter beccaes unclassiciod.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is picnared in response to your yequest and is not for nissemr.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 39

---

## Page 40

December: 72, 1954

315.

BY LEAZDON

majos Conoonl Doges C. Dolchan

Dogardsone os the Asty

-..../

The Pentaron

Yachingüon, D. C.

Deaz General DOlGEts:

I chough you wouid ho incorestod in the

enclosed aaront Study cateriod "Corvadon und the 108z0

MOTETiENNA 027026 Aº321

ado."

Coping os slig

docinont ino boing susadohod to jaiccestod octaedals

of the Goverzmont.

The acurces sood in the euciosure nave

Ruralchod acheolo incomation da due 2005, and secatio

"ac? Deosot."

Ten COronal of c1as52220c

onciscue, this Iccicr beccaos naclaccarted.

Sinceroly yours,

J,. Edgar Hoover

Enclogure

-

This deman

nation car is penal de venger la lerge sue is not for dissemi-

gowy Compete del c content bes lode to we need person

nel without itie

copies appraid of the b'ed:

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 40

---

## Page 41

Dedenber . 7, 1951

BY LIAISON

Honorablc Dean Husk

the secretary or Suate

Hannington, D. C.

Dear Ki, Ruck:

I thought you would be interested in the

enclosed current study entitied "Comunic and the

Negro Movemenis Current An217u18.

Copies of this

documeni are being funished to interested officials

of the Governnent.

The sources used in the enclosure have

nurnisned railanie inioration in the past, and because

of their sensitive nature, the document has been

classiried

"Top Secret."

upon renoval of classified

enclosure, this lettes becomes unclassifled.

Sincerely yours,

....-

Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is purgercu an prepose to your sequest and is not for dissemi-

your Commise! lie munt mar not be disdosce to mauthorised person-

nel withou the exprcos aproval of the FBI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 41

---

## Page 42

Devember :71, 1961

•EX EZAZCON

Lacuicsant Goncial Josoph r. Carcolt

Direcios

DedOnDO TarellLEcnee Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear General Carroll:

& chought you vonte be andorosted za the

enciosed curozi stuer enteszod romundom and tho llogzo

HorcheninA Carzont 13r77015."

Copies od tudo

docacnt aro Dois Ecanichod to irioscobed oxficiais

of cho Coveriment.

The sources used de the caciouura bave

furniched rolarade asiomacion in tho 5996,

and because

0f thodt noagetive antice, the cocmost bao beon

Coon conval od chaesafied

onclosure, thas lettos boccaes zaciasc:22od.

Sincerosy youso,

. ...

J. Edgar Hoover

nel witho t the capres ui soril of the est.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 42

---

## Page 43

The loting Attcancy Coxicati

December 17, I961

"COLITIDE ANY MOST DEGRO LOVER

denire vinn comtados actoriaos do tobables to 1:0

NO 12005202ig Pad LO Gyros 1702T4S600 042204413 06 110

The source tood in the enoleauro, entitled

7$

cast

vinciation

300•410523

220I6TIE0

Est fundarien

Lotte do Talion Toricy

(holcruze)

Oucicruze)

(En0102120)

This do melt a creand th ceceone to you? crouest and is not for disseme

Le use is !.?" sto official procecdings bu

vor Commint e and the content may not be disclosca to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 43

---

## Page 44

December :7.,

1954

BY IRAIDON

ci

HOrOsablO Carl T. Rowan

Unscod Statco Inforuation Agoncy

110017

. 402

1776 Poensylvania Avoruo, Northwest

Wachington, D. G.

Deaz I2. Rovan:

I thought you would be

intoreatod in

encloned cozent soudy caticled "oconundom and the legro

Lovenose-n1 Cureone inalysis." Condos of allo

doesnos ano lo208 furniched to intorostod cilicials

The sources used in the colcaura hnvo

furnishea coldable intoration in cle post, sad becauso

On these SoLemne narene, the Cocone lag bec

C103022208 "To? Cocret."

UPOn TOROVaL 03 C2a0s22200

enclogure, ches icctor becones unclassiiied.

Saucerely. 70U9,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enciosure

This docment as piraered in response to your request and is not for dassem-

nation outside mour Commiter.

lis use as omited to offerial proceccunas 01

vour Commot're and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 44

---

## Page 45

December T. 1964

BY LIAISON

Colonel Jocegh i. Cappucci

Dizoctor of Saccial Investigafions

110 InoDoctor Gonczul

Departucht of the dii force

Building Fearo I

Fourth and Adans Drive, Southrest

Wastingtoi, D, C.

Dear Colonol Cappucci:

I thought you, rould be interested in the

enclosed currono study cacitlod "Coamunion and the Negro

Hovenont--d Curcoat inniysis."

Copies ot this

•dockent arc being turnichod to inscrescod oificials

of the covorment.

The sources usod in the enclosuze have

InSOd TOLe Icon in the past, and because

of tiezI sensitive nature, the donment has beei

classifiod "Top Jeczet."

Toon conoval of classilled

enclosure, this ictter

becones unclassified.

sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation ortsile

your Commince.

T's use is limited to official proccerings li

o ari the content may not be disclosca to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the fbl.

NW 65360 Docid:32989778 Page 45

---

## Page 46

•UM SMAL FORM NO, TO

I.VITED STATES GOV

NMENT

Memorandum

#. C. Sulliv

DATE: 12/17/64

FOM : F. J. Baumgardner:

S"S ECT:

COLFUETIST INFILTRATION OF

- SOUTHERN CRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST

This memorandum recommends that the National Science

Foundation (NST) be furnished information concerning the

communist influence exerted on the Southern Christian Lendership

Conference (SCIC) and its President, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jx.

This appears necessary since the SCIC has been contacted by the

NSE for the purpose of obtaining applicants for southern schools:

has furnished information that

was advised that the MiSt

desired qualified applicants to enter the University of

and other schools in southern states where the ast has its

an cants

progran in progress.

was advised that the NSf was

contacting organizations such as the SCIC and other civil rights

srouns to bandie the cecrement progran for Negre sturianis since

they

did not want it to appear that the Sr was

attenpting ta

put regro applicants in southern schools.

was advised that each qualified applicant

1. Fould receive a $3,000 scholarship from the MST. Since this

is a Government project any expenses incurred. in this matter

"would not come out of anyone's pocket."

This would adicate

that any expenses incurred by the SCIC in their recruitment

effort would be paid for with Government funds.

The communist intluences exerted on King are well

Known to the Bureau.

has in the past been a member

of the Communist Party.

OSSERVATIONS:

It is incredible that an outfit such as the scIc.

should be utilizad for the purpose of recruiting Negroes to

take part in the NSF program, particularly where funds of the

Enclosure:

CONTINUED - OVER,

NW-65360_Docld:32989718_Page 46

---

## Page 47

Hemorandum to W. C. Sullivan

FroM F.

J. Baumgardner

RE:

COZIUNIST INTILTRATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

• =

U. S. Govern ent are Involved. The Atlanta Office has

recommended hat

be

advised con erning this matter. This appears inadvisable

since such ction could conceivably cause repercussions which

would

only sgravate the racial siuation that exists in the

South.

It is felt that Di. leland J. Hanorth, Director,

communist

Intluences exerted on the scue and king. In this regard

we accently dissoninated to the White House and

the

heads of the iniclligence community copies of a "Top Secret"

sumnary entitled "Conmunism and the legro loverent--A

Cuzzent Analysis" nhich contains information regarding the

This summary donls with king's communist

connections and'"technical surveillance information) With the

receint of this summary by Di. Haworth, the SCIC would

undanctedly be removed donn the 197

program to obtain qualified

regro students for southern schools.

The information concerning the SCIc participation.

In the NST progian is being separately disseninnted to the

Department and interested intelligence agencies.

RECO:MENDATION:

There is attached for approval a letter to

Dr. Leland do Haworth, Director, Ast, transmitting a copy

01

the recently propared sunmary entitled "Connunisn and

the Negro Movement--1 Current Analysis."

1m0d l '1d to official moceedings lis

NOw! Crazi

in roulend ncy 20é be disclosia lo unuthorised persoir

ach wiloit ine

copes 62p0ordl of the FBl.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 47

---

## Page 48

266/59.34222 20242262200972 306

2036r

Docenber 19,

1924

BE LIAISON

Di. Idlend &.. Laworth

Director

Musional Solence Foundation

1002 Coratibution Avezuo, 1. W.

Macisegion, D. C.

Dens Dz. Taworch:

A concidontial Sourca who has turnichod reliablo

indomation in the past has adriocd that the lational

Sciones boundation

concentagod dollining the Loathern

Cirqueden Lendeschip Condorozoo to locato qualiliod

applacares. do ontor the thivorciby of ideadoragna and

othor boughora schools whoso ine jationd beicaco Foundation.

has a proud in progicad.

Tiero is enolosod for your incoration a cummazy

entacled "consures and Uo Focao Novononio a Gusront

AnaZmis: which sods do2c3 Zasocnnizon zogearind

tie

Souchcan Gastonian Lenderchip Condoroace and Lto Prosidont,

Dio Mercin Luther 6le5, Sã.

Upon rosoral ol the clossieded encicouzo, this

transuittal lotter may de doungraded to fem"

sincorely yours.

•. Edgar Hoover

Enclosuro

This document is neerared in renonse to you request and is not for dissemi-

nation outsile que pie?.

Its use is tauton to copical proceduras by

nour Commito: ail dr coers may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the capics approval of the FBI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 48

---

## Page 49

Trust.

December 21, 1964

BY LIAISON

-20

Honorable lubert Il. Humphrey

United States Senate

Washington, D. Co

My dear Senator:

I thought you would be interestra in che

enciosed study entitico "Counion and the ilegro

• Loverent--1 Current Analysis' as scll as a meno-

Personal Conduct" which is an adjunct of the study.

Copies of those documents have been Furniched to

interestod officials of the Covernnent.

The sources used in the enclosures have

Furnished reliable infouation in the past, and

because of tanis sonsitive natuce, "tun cocients

have been classifica "Tos Speret.!" Upon renoval:

psi-

For the cinssified enclosurdo, this transmittali

letter becones unclassified.

tricercly yours,

J.: Edgar Hoover

Erig sures (2)

¿Thes doement as pased mi rcapons, to aur rechestand anot for dissemt

nation claire rosy Commies

Its use is limited to official mraccodings y

36228

NW 65360 Dold; 32989718 Page 49

---

## Page 50

ATIONAL PORN NO. 10

MAT BRAD PUITION

АЛА СЕН, 81G. МО. 21

UNITED STATES GOVERNNIENT

Memorandum

TO

: HI.

1%.

C. Sullivan

DATE: March 23, 1965

FROM : Ax. F. J. Baumgardner

SUBJECT

"COMMUNI SIS ANT THE NEGRO

MOVEMENT--A. C RRENT ANALYSIS".

You will recall that in December, 1964, with the

Director's approval and after first checsing with the whitf

House, we disseminated to the lleads of the intelligence

community a paper

captioned as above which depicted the

connunist influence in the Negro movement.

Emphasis was

given in the paper to the communist influences on Martin Luther

King, JI., as vell as facts relating to his immoral nature.

As you are aware, LeRoy Collins, former Governor of

Frozida, Ls Dircoto, Community Relationo Sorvico (CRS),

Depaitment di Comerce, aid in this posiiion serves as

sumetning

of a "mediator" in problems relating to the racial field. He

has been a key individual relative to the situation in Selma,.

Alabama. Information of interest to the CRS is regularly boing

disseminated to that agency. _(possible technical surveillance

information)

.^..

contin t.

It is believed that,

in view of Collins' important

position relative to the racial novenent, he should have

benefit of the paper which we have already given to the

White House and the Heads of the intelligence community.

Our rela-

tions with Collins have been friendly; he is a long-time admirer vi

RECOLLENDATION :.

...

..the Director and the, Bureau.

.: Attached for approval is a letter to Collins enclosing

a copy of the paper captioned as above,

Ginges rely do code flew cuis

Enclosures •

: 1900':

This roman MamanTs

nation did

NW 65360 Dold 32089718"Page 5072:

..

?...

.::'

car can sost med so not for mami

ramala demo dutch proceederes bly

irat man nut be cisclosed to inuthoried person-

canal of the fri

---

## Page 51

22/46/0266

airrors

Sdsh255325562692

raiido

•"іі"

d"?es"

. . .

i..*

redGeel leeleedd lleeed Gdedderdo dederedi

jaiicsii.

piomds".

iata.o

• hh cho da mamimat gr

WoStad paa101n 0, ten

.."!!

!?::".

ruieD anon

Па 00020002010. 207.110 1

...''a?

Mi MISglO MOLZDU

nuassp loj 0u s fl mao mud G doromdó d? Cliado Se gealanoop SUlE

scir.docsilsirdaotl .colionoshi?ende.dedd@icrdoldo.ds.@000.22.20l @adus66.u25sc22dwpaisiu

..,..l dl:!ul!lte!!"1 1'lltldl"

•eralotdl eiã tbdd de ino doodd d de iititta.

. . 0. лілі.

.: DInS0I00D..

......

галООн ледра •р

i!':

t Ww!

Sanos ATeTODuySysAu

roarde dii

wislos

•COIITESCIOUR SOMODad

J0ZZOT

NO COTISSI CIA SO TeNNEI DOd "PONOOS

poysqumag aAgy oinsciono oa ut posa dooinos onE

""SESATEIY

ls n i mn pn mn cin tc ceine a

•SUTITOS •TII S0OQ

doTenmos t0 quounaeãon

GOTATOS SUOTAUTONI SETURILOS

ZOSOUEFO

SUTITOO SONOT OIGUIOUOI

NOSIVIT IX

0IEN

---

## Page 52

CAIONAL PORM M. 10

9010-106

MAY 194Z EDITION

озА сем. ХЕО. НО. 37

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: 3/31/65

FROM : F. J. Baumgardnes

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - CONNUNIST

On 3/31/65, we. received the following request,

through Liaison, from Mr. Fred Robinette, Executive Assistant"

to the Assistant Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Sorvice

(Inspections) Rabinette advised that the Internal Revenue

Service (IPS) will conduct seminars in the near iuture on

Equal Employnent Opportunities®

The Training Division of IRS

has reconmended lartin Luther King, fi., among 19 individuals,

as a guest lecturer at these seminars.

Robinette made a

name check request conceming king and the Is other individuale;

You will recall that in Docombor, 1051, With ths

Director's approval and after first checking vith the white.

House, we disseminatca to the hends of the intelligence

community a paper entitica "Communisn and the legro lovement-

A Current Analysis" wherein emphasis was given to the

communist influence on King as well as facts relating to

his immoral nature.

It is belioved that we should now furnish to Ins

in response to its

request for information concerning King;

#copy of the document reicrred. to above. The Name Check

Section of the General Investigative Division is separately

handling the request concerning the 18 other indivicuals.

RECOMMENDATION:

Attached for approval is a lettor to Mr. Robinette

enclosing a copy of the paper titled "Communism and the

Negro. Movement--A Current Analysis:"

said decadeniame.

Enclosure

This dohmast

nation crorar

The Cal.

mwan and is not for dissemi-

inted to nfficial proceedings by

i disclosed to unauthorized person-

---

## Page 53

!*

-:

BY LIAISON

Date:

ApriL 2, 1905

To:

Mie Ired Robanette

Executiva Assisiant to tho

Assissant Comotesione

Internal Ravenie Sasvice (Inspections)

Departnent of the Treasury

Vasianacon, D. C.

Iron:

John Edgar Foovor, DireciOr

Subjeck:

LATE IT LUETEY KIE, OR.

SECURITY

INTER - COLONISE

tananand in your varnest for infomation concarning

martin Luthes Mint, Jee, we as being concidered hy your

Sorvice as a rosaiblo gussi lectunes, thore is enciesed!

a Copy or I stady encisiod "Conausion and the legro Kove-

nonimal Current Aralysis," Copies of chis cocunent lave

been furnished to interostod cificinis of tho Covernaeni.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnished

relinilo indosation in the past, andesacause of taeli sessitive

azure, the docurent has been classified "Top Docioi."

Upon sonaras. 02 the pleasuased enclosure, this Jester becones

unciassizied.

Enclosure ..

This document is pramp do pennes do mous accusat cod is not for dissemi-

nation artsito

te nitrid proceedings hu

ised to anauthoried person

nel writhvit

are sittit

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 • Page 53

---

## Page 54

AHOMAs PORM NO. 10

1010-100°

MAY 1PAS EDITION

UNITED STATES GO

•RNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. DeLoach

OM

W. C. Sullivan,

BJECT: -MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE:

12/19/66•

PURPOSE:

To obtain approval to disseminate monograph

enalysis, to the United states Ambassador to Japan.

"Communism and the Negro Movement - A Current

U. Alexis Johnson.

BACKGROUND:

On my recent inspection of the Legal Attache office

in Japan, I met and talked with Ambassador Jonnson.

DurIng

our conversation, it was quite apparent that Ambassador

• Johnson was unaware of the communist influence being exerted

on the co

on Martin Luther King, Jr., and his group the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference.

In November of 1964, interested officials of the

Government, including the Honorable Dean Rusk, Secretary of

State, were furnished copies of the monograph

entitled,

"Communism and the Negro Movenent - A Current AnalySIS.

It is felt that Ambassador Johnson, because of his

position, should be made aware of communist infiltration into

King's group, and the influence being exerted on king.

Ambassador Johnson is a former Deputy Secretary of

" State and has been extremely cooperative and helpful in the:

By his remarks

was apparent he is favorably disposed

in handline

this dagument coura

-De rested.

RECOMMENDATION:

That

approval be granted to disseminate the abover

named: document. to: Ambassador Johnson. If approval is granted;

a copy will be sent to the legal Attache, Harold L thrld, Jr,

i With appropriate instructions

This torment

val norman desome tit

..!.

23: 1

More Command cal ile on. is

His 1'1.

do dodosc io unauthorica person

nel wilhout the co nos irinid of ine EDI

IN 65360-Docld: 32988zis Page 54*.

---

## Page 55

Legat, Tolzo

Direc dit FBI

MARTIN LUTHER FING, SI•

SECURITY MATTER - C

12/23/66

When Assistant Director W. C. Sullival, inspecteo

your office racentle, he not and talied with United States

Anbasoador t0 dapaz,

U. Liexis Go2ngon.

It was quite coparent

that Anbassadior johnson

Pas unarare of the communist influence

being enorted on zertin Luther lins, dre, and his groug, the

Southern Christian Loadcachip Conforence.

The Icnal Atinche, Telgo, is, therefore, nuthorized

to deliver in parson to ingensador cohneon the enclosed

rochent entitiai

"cornian and the horro Hovenent - A

Curicht Maaiy.1s.

" thou Callverys

ine Chrosacacatzon of this

document chould le pointet out to

the Ambassador and a request

nade that ne hendle it accoruingly.

Enclosure

+s..

-i.

...

This degrand in ma

nation ar

ii-a

. !.

officiai proccedings y

esch io unanthorized persoir

in i

NV 65360_Docld:32989718 Page 55.

stronacon

-i!..

---

## Page 56

ATTIONAE PORN O. 10

018-100

GRA GAM. BIG

NO. 81

UNITED STATES GO INMENT

..

Memorandum

го

Mr. H. Co Sullivan

DATE: April 10, 1967

FROM : C. D. Brennan

SUBJECT: CONMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS - A CURRENT ANALYSIS

PURPOSE:

To obtain authorization for high level dissemination

jof a document captioned as above which shows the degree of

communist influence on liartin Luther king.

Enclosed is a document captioned as above, which

depicts communist influence in the civil rights field,

emphasizing the key role of Martin Luther King, or.

This

document is a current revision of the previvus

analysis

captioned "Communism and the Negro novement - A curreni aurlysis,"

prepared and disseminated in Novenber, 196%.

In updating it.

we have emphasized these areas: (1) continued reliance of King

upon former Conmunist Party, USA, members, particularly Stanloy

David Levison; (2), (technical surveillance information)

(3) communist

goal of uniting the peace and civil rights

movements and King's adherence to this communist long-range

objective.

ministration stronge sand specto not te

a speech he made at New York

on 4/4/67 shows how much he has been influenced by communist

advisors.

His speech was a direct parallel of the communist

position on Vietnam.

It is felt that the President would be interested in

á summary on King which shows the degree of communist influence

on. him..

The attached paper constitutes a complete picture and

Istrong indictment of ring in that regard. the

RECOLMENDATIONS:

It is recommended that

(1) The attached letters, with enclosures, to the

Thite House and the ittorney General be forwarded to Assistant

to: the:Director Deloach-for-transmittal: tors..Hildred.stogald..

the white House. and the attorney General

womance decrone 695890cc92P00Ucad15005g

'rings are

CONTINUED - OVER

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 56

---

## Page 57

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

Re:

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS - A CURRENT ANALYSIS

(2) The attached letters, with enclosures, to

the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the

Director of the Secret

a state the Sec

Service be forwarded to the Liaison

Section for transmittal.

rs. pana de dirty???

This document is prenared in reciper to you poorest and is not for dissemi-

nation outsir.

med lured in offirial procceditos by

incontire

nel without the cariss a rei of the FBI.

..9.0.0°

trawboardoor throttlind crucide

seen du

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 57

---

## Page 58

The Attorney General

April 10, 1997

Director, IBI

1• CONHUNIST IRTLOGICE IN RACIAL

BATTINS - A CURACITT AMALIES

--

I thought you would be intorestod in the onclosed

curront soudy cutitled "Commist Inclucnce.in racial

Matters - A Cirzoni Anolysis.

The sourcos uoed in the enclosue have furnished

reliable information in iue past and bocause of their

sonsitive satura, this

doomnont has bocn classified

Upon ronoval ci the siacsitiod enclosure,

this lottor becones uncieositied.

Enclosure

a core note said or coded nore:"

This document is momma? in mime

ration oás

nel witinie lie did around 0;

1.:590''

. ..

meet ma is and for dissemi-

Moracles b

ivove io unchorized persoir

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 58

---

## Page 59

April 10, 1967

ло і -і";

Hlonorniile Janes J. Tinrloy

Directoi;

". &. Scoret Seivice

Hashington, D. C.

Deat Th'. Rowlcy:

I cloliglt you conld be intorested in the enclosed

current scudy ontitlod "Connanist influence in Racial

Matreis •i wizcht dtacgeia:

Tho sonrces used in the enclocuro have firnished

rerlanle intornstion in the pust nud iccause of thoii

Scisitire noourg, cras docucont bas boon clrssified

"Top secrat." Upon renovai of the classifioù Onclosuie,

this lotter becones unclussifiod.

Sinccicly yours,

dw.o,.÷a

rrg;

leqicleeqrele. Gee lod Gced-i de 'e detéeeedd0ede dinnde dde ei

J. Edgar Hoover

inclosure

.w.:!!.111

oted aeid lie a dascecelde cciarfreneret Whylopoorurs

This dorunzor

nation pu:,

?'

ynur coa.:i

ineh atthout ine.td.dc...s

+33403 486/443

.?icit"id:

:.

•.cw•ö.

socobeechecer cccr e soedd pgccle

morsi crd is voi foï disscini-

•?:e offucial proreediuos by

sulosed to anuuclorized persoi-

iiù !.

i:"!:

'e.e 'tltodd"

=E20/941d

leier!:

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 59-

---

## Page 60

April 10, 1967

• EX LIAISON

Honora:le Deon Busk

Washington, D.'C.

Dear Ki. Rusk:

I shounbt you would be intonosund in the cuciose

curioni stady enciclod "Cornist Influasco in Racial

hactors - A Curroat Accl7oís."

The sourcos nood in che oboloace hove jurnighod

solinnie infonation in io nasé enã bocause de invii

sensitivo anture, this docunsnt hes boon cinscitied

"Top) Sccrot."

Unon rcroval && tuo cliscrized esclocure,

this letici beconcs unclassiried.

strangegni piscer

Mara: sues bincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

026419109999

i::.i: Eticlosure

.. •:.

....

This document in recain pener te

cece que is not for dissemi-

maccaints b!

nation mitrier

eccend in antioriste person-

sover Compi.

nel nülui ....

•ч.і:

Seg."

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 60

---

## Page 61

April 10, 1907

• BY LIAISON

krs, Milarod Stegall .

The White House

Vashington, D. C.

Dear Hrs. Stegall:

I thought the president would be interooted

in the enclosed chocent study entatied "Comanist intluence

11 Bacial Mottons • A Curront Anlysis." Copies of cbis

incumont are aico boing durniched to the honosable fear

Bust, the Decrcunay vi cuado; the Ronorable Foliert

General.

The sources used in the enclosure have furnishod

reliable informiion in the past and because of choir

sensitive nature, this docuont has leon cInssiiied

"Top secrei."

tos rchovel on, the cingstiled eaclosures

"i ran this. leutes baconos unclassificd,

J. Edgar Hoover

Cag013 0.91

..?:.

This document is prep i magnet presi cad is got for dissemi-

nation outside

nch without tni.c.

-!::

microod to unattorned person-

"=.

2466

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 61

---

## Page 62

April 10, 1967

BY LIAISCH

Ronorable Robert S. Meltonora

The Scoretary o1 Derenso

Washington, D. C.

ficat thie, liclanasa:

I thoucht you would be interociod da the enclose:

curront study quircled "Cogunist Inclusace in Racial

Mattois • A Current Analysia."

The cources used in the cholociro have franichea

reliahie intoraation sa cho paco and bocuaso of tizz

Sensitive nacie, this doonnent bag book ciaccidiod

"Top decrat."

Upon amoral of the classicied osclosure,

this lettes becones unciassified.

... i

Sincercly yours,

J. Edgar. Hoover

"÷";

/promoted.coco.g. DogGed...05.0616.0.200000.65.01%

This document is porar

nel invincio till circus indivind of lui isla

• :..:

•Manil man des by

NW 65360_Docld:32989718 Page 62

---

## Page 63

OSA GIN. T: 1iO, 81

UNITED STATES COCER WENT

Memorand

,2

: Sir. le C. Sullivan,

:

C. Do Bronnan

DATE: August 24, 11967

:

LARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

OLCURLTY ALTER - COLONIST

* Material in parenthesis has been

added in place of excised portions.

PURPOST:

•, saritinita aristia

To obinin approval to dissominato to(a representatire

ariendly löreigi Intelligance Servic? ine monograph entities,

lashingion, i.

co, a copy oi

¡Communist Influence in Racial latters-: Curzont inaljsis.'

BACKGROUND:

sofian)

таті

(This indivicuaD

has advised inai liu ricthan Protest Movement t

is considoring Inviting pronnen incricars. to indure iu

m on Vietnan.

Martin Luthci King, Je, President 01

Che

Southern Chiistion Leadership Conference,

has been

mentzoned by, this group as one they might invite for this

pulpose.

• imperia, quande as il

has requested that he be lurnishca any.

information of a political or suiversive nature concernins

,King.lso that the head of his Government might be briefed).

OBSERVATION:

invited to i

since there is good possibility ling might ba

> in the near futare, it is doened

desirable to aavise apprcpriate governent officials of

his heavy alliance io Connunist advisors and

• (technical

surveillance information

•RECONDLENDATION

slip to

• Enclosurc

The attached document be disseminated by routing

#through Liaison Section.

This document is negroerl da perangee to more arguest rod is not for dissenti-

•.ianio

crlisa1.

act dormipstore person-

NW 65360-Docld:32989718-Page 63

---

## Page 64

CARIONAL InRM NO, 10

MAY THAT POITION

DA1R-I00

•sA GIM.

deo.

но. 18

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

/- Memorandum

TO

• Mi

#. Ci Sullivas

FROM

.: Do. J. Brennan,

Jr.

SUDJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER -

DATE: 8/30/67

This is to recommend that we furnish to General

Commandaat of the Marine Corps,

On 8/29/67, through his Alde-de-Camp, Lieutenant

Colonel Raymond C. Damm, General Greene asked Liaison

. whether

we have available a summary..of information on Martin Luther

King which could be made available to the Commandant: General

Greene has been interested in following news accounts of

King's activities in the civii rignts movemeni vui receutiy

..has become quite concerned as to whether there are any

subversive influences which have caused king to link the

civil rights movement with the anti-Vietnam Har moyement.

OBSERVATIONS:

General Greene has always been very friendly and

cooperative with the Bureau.

As Commandant of the Marine Corps,

he is also..a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It is felt

It would definitely be to the benefit of General Greene and

to the Bureau to furnish him the enclosed monograph which has

previously been disseminated on a high level to the White House,

the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of

State, and the Secret Service.

RECOMMENDATION:

General Greene.

100-106670

Enc.

That attached monograph be furnished by Liaison to

This document is prenare die to you remat and is not for dissemi-

deal proceduros 0?

•:

'and to unauthorie person-

1'L1

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 64

---

## Page 65

OPTIONÁL PORM NO 10

MAT IP62 POITION

3018-108

отя сен, 116. н0.88

UNITED STATES GOV

Memorandum

TO

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : G. C. Moore

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE:

....-

2/29/68

Mr. Tolson has suggested, and the Director agreed,

that the monograph on Martin Luther King,. JI., be brought

• up to date.

• This is an excellent suggestion and we have already

started

the necessary yesearch. Bringing this monograph up to

date and disseminating it at high level prior to King's "Wash-

sington Spring Project" should serve again to remind top-level

officials in Government of (technical surveillance information)

As you know, King's "Washington Spring Project" was

originally scheduled for early April, 1968. However, our

....

Washington Field Office has developed information that King's

group is experiencing difficulty in recruiting individuals

to participate in the demonstration and the date for the project

"Ow has now tentatively been: set för April 27, 1968. "

Because of the importance of doing a thorough job on

this, we will conduct an exhaustive file review to bring togethe

the most complete and up-to-date information and to present it•

in a hard-hitting manner..

To make the brief timely, we will

have it completed

and ready, for dissemination by March 14, 1965:

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

idioti

flatbreds

This document is prared iu respor to you! recroat and is not for dissemi-

NW 65360 Docld:329897 4tjage, 65.07

---

## Page 66

OTTOM PORs NO. 10

∞ "1809 10 len

1018-180

: 386 GEN. ALG. NO 28

UNITEU STATES GOYa

MENT

Memorandum

: Mr. Sullivan

DATE: 3/11/68

ROM : G. C. Moore

UBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

Mi. Tolson has suggested and the Director has agreed

• that a previous monograph dealing with Martin Luther King, Jr.,

be updated at this time.

Enclosed is a document captioned "Martin Luther

King, JIo, - A Current Analysis," which depicts communist

influence on Martin Luther King; details regarding his proposec

- "Washington Spring Project'' in which he is calling for massive

civil disobedience in the Nation's CapitaPbeginning 4/22/68;

hir contacts with such militant black nationalists as

and

in efforts to secure support: for

his "Washington Spring Project," and details regarding his.

efforts to organize this project. This document updates the

previous analysis which dealt primarily with King captioned

"Communist Influence in Racial Matters - Current Analysis,"

dated 4/10/67.

RECOMMENDATION:

That a copy of the enclosed document be furnished

Mrs. Stegall at the White-House and the Attorney General.

*Attached are proposed letters to Mrs.. Stegall and the Attorney

General, copies for the Deputy Attorney General and Assistant

Attorneys General of the Internal Security, Civil Rights,

and Criminal Divisions..

Copies of this document are being

: Enclosures

Being held until monograph approved

This document is argared in teara to no coes cod is not for dissemi-

y01? Criminen lie:

-191

nel without the capro aubrol of the fed .

NW 65380-Docld:32989718-Page-66-

---

## Page 67

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

RE: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

furnished by routing slip to Mr. William Welsh, Administrative

Assistant to the Vice President; Department of Defense;

Department of Labor; Department of Agriculture; Inter-Division

Information Unit; Secret Service; Army; Navy; Air Force,

and General Services Administration.

.....'

•.".

....

2.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 67

---

## Page 68

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

MARTIN INTER KING, JR.

SECURITY LUTTER - COURIST

Hanshnatin 1963

I thought you would be interested in the enclosed

current study entitiod "Tartin Inther Kind, Jio, - 1 Current

Analysis," particularly in vior of his ennounced plans foc

nastive civil disobedience in the Nation's. Capital in buril,

1965€

A copy of the encloned cominication has been noce

maileble to irs. Mildred stegall at the White llouse and other

Aritamantori Government agencies:

inclosure

I - The Deputy Attorney General (inclosure)

1 - Ns. J. Halter Yeagley (inclosure) "

assistant Actorney Ganeral

• Ir. Fred 2. Vinsch, Ji. (unclosure)

Assistant Attorney Cencral

1

- Mr.

Stephen J.

en J. Pollak enclosure)

Assistant. Attorney General

This document is monored an engues to any pemest and is not for dissem

nation 0119 19969

nial proceedings oy

::*

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 68

---

## Page 69

SECRET

March 14, 1968

BY LIAISON

Mrs. Mildred Stegall

The White House

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mrs. Stegalli

I thought the President would be interested in their

enclosed current study entitled "Martin Luther King, Ji.-

A Current Analysis," particularly in view of King's announced

plans for mussive elvil disobedierce in the Notionts, Capitol

this coming April

Copies of this docutient are being furnished the

Attorney General and other interested Government agencies.

The sources utilized in the enclosure have furnished

reliable information in the past and because of their sensitive

nature this cocument has been classified "Secret." Upon

removal of the classified enclosure, this letter becolnes

unclassified.

Sincerely yours.

J. Edgar Hoover

Enclosure

This document is prepared in respuns. to unus request and is not for dissen-

nation outsile vo! fameice.

I's 5:98.1

is lei to official proceechies oy

your Commitire a:

• core may no! he ciclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express aprivil of tie Fel .

NW- 65260-Docd-32989718-Page 69

---

## Page 70

орИонл! точи но 10

НАТ 1868 80:0М

5912-186

OSA GEM, REG. AiO, 89

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. Wo C. Sullivan

DATE: March 19, 1968

FROM :G. C. Moore

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

Through liaison it has been determined that the

recent monograph entitled "Martin Luther King, JI., A

Current Analysés," dated March 12, 1968, has

been receivei

very favorably by the intelligence community. Because of

this, liaison has received requests from various agoncies

iur copies of this monograph. We feel. that the monograph

would be helpful to other Government agencies with

Intelligence responsibilities.

RECOMMONDATION:

It is recommended that copies of the monograph

on Martin luther King, Jr., be furnished the following

agencres. by Liaison: Centralintelligence ngency;

Secretary of State Dean Rusk; Joint Chiefs of Staff;

Major General Carl C. Turner, Provost Marshal, U. S. Army;

General Leonard E. Chapman, Conmandant, .

S. Marine Corps

. 8..

a (1969,

This dociment ¿smreparod in respcrse to ma remissi and is not for dessemi.

nation oviside neur Coomütês

ro tu efficie procdedings by

your commitee and tac contori m

Nisulosed to unauthorized person

0V. 6686042001d:929897183Pade70--/

07

the FB1

---

## Page 71

'I PORA NO. 10

3010-106

+81497(0171JN

86G. NO.79

• UNITED STATES GO

MENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. A. H. Belmont

DATE: November 22, 1964

FROM 1. C. Sullivan...

SUBJECT:COLIJUNISH AND THE NEGRO

HOVENIENT--A CURRINT ANALYSIS

Enclosed is a paper, captioned as above, which depicts the communist

influence in the Negro movenent with emphasis on liartin Luther King, Jr.

This paper is an up-to-date revision of the one by the same title proparea

urder the date of October 16, 1953.

In updating. it we emphasized three

main arcas: (1) the continued dependence of king upon foiner Communist

Party, USA

nenbers, current and former farty sympathizers

and his continue

reliance on the long-time communist

(2) Lacis

clating to the moral degeneracy, of King. and (3) the zecent and current

Party aims and activities relative to the racial novement.

PECO LENDATION:

Upon apporal, consideration will be giten to appropriate closemina-

•inen approved the paper should be returned to the Domestic

Intellisence Division for printing and the p'eparation of appropriate

letters if disseminated

Enclosure

WhiTe House

State

CIA

Anniy, Nauy, AIR FORiE

This document is prenared in resingo to me cornest cral is dot for dissema.

nation outal get Contri

24111

i isclosed to unnathorized person

nel without the copios approar of i fBI.

•.?:

27304006400607 2722287632

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 71

---

## Page 72

Hemorandum to W. C. Sullivan

From F. J. Baumgardner

RE:

COMMUNIST IRFILTRATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

U. S. Government are involved. The Atlanta Office has

recommended that

be

advised concerning this matter. This appears inadvisable

since

such action could conceivably cause repercussions which

would only aggravate the racial scuation that exists in the

South.

It is felt that Dr. Leland J. Haworth, Director,

NSF, should be furnished information regarding

communist

influences exerted on the SCIC and King. In this regard

we recently disseminated to the White House and the

heads of the intelligence community copies of a "Top Secret"

summary

entitled "Communism and the legro lovement--A

Cuzzent

Analysis" which contains information regarding the

SCIC and king.

This sunmary deals with King's conmunist

connections and his personal inoral activities. With the

receipt of this summary by Dr. Haworth, the SCIC would

undoubtedly be removed arm the Nin

program to obtain qualified

Negro students for southern schools.

The information concerning the scIe participation

in the NSF progran is being sepazately disseminnted to the

Department

and interested intelligence agencies.

RECOMMENDATION:

There is attached for approval a letter to

DI. Icland J. Haworth, Director, ASi

of the recently peared mentioned a

the Negro Movement--A Current Analysis."

Thes documen: is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outrice now Commince.

l's use i land to official procecdings by

vour Cormite and lue condent may not be disclosea lo unuuthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 72

---

## Page 73

OPTIONAL PORM NO, 10

MAY 1947 EDITION

OSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: hit.

C. Sullivan

DATE: March 23, 1965

FROM : Mr. F. J. Baumgardner

SUBJECT®

"COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO

MOVEMENT--A CURRENT ANALYSIS"

You will recall that in December, 1964, with the.

Director's approval and after first checising with the White

House, we disseminated to the lleads of the intelligence

community a paper

captioned as above which depicted the

communist influence in the Negro movement. Emphasis was

given in the paper to the communist influences on Martin Luther

King, JI., as well as facts relating to his immoral nature.

As you are aware, Leroy Collins, former Governor of

Florida, is Director, Connunity Relations

Service (CRS),

Departmeut vi Commeice, aiú in this posiiiun serves as

sumething

of a "mediator" in problems relating to the racial field. He

has been a key individual relative to the situation in selma,

Alabana:

Information of interest to the CRS is regularly being

disseminated to that agency. He just received reliable infor

mation concerning a conversation between fartin Luther King, Ji.

and his wife,

Coretta, during which Coretta made reference to

the

selma situation and said that Collins was blinded by

prejudice. We have disseminated the information concerning

the king conversation to CRS.

It is believed that,

in view of Collins' important

position relative to the racial movenent, he should have

benefit of the paper which we have already given to the

Unite House and the Heads of the intelligence community.

Our rela-

tións with Collins have been friendly; he is a long-time admirer of

RECOLHENDATION :

the Director and the, Bureau...

.: Attached for arproval is a letter to Collins enclosing

a copy of the paper captioned as above

Enclosures

..':

This documert.

as rene reshose to you onest id not for mast

nation outate to Commodeo. is due is limitato ordicia proceedines buy

your Committe aul the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

NW 65360 Docld 22989748tPage 73Yoss approval of the FBI.

---

## Page 74

UNTIONAL FORM

.0.10

310-108

MAN 190I EDITION

GSA GEN.

кС6. по. 27

UNITED STATES GO INMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE:

April 10, 1967

'ROM : Go D. Brennan

¡UBJECT: - COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS - A CURRENT ANALYSIS

PURPOSE:

To obtain authorization for high level dissemination

jof a document captioned as above which shows the degree of

communist influence on Martin Luther King..

Enclosed is a document captioned as above, which

depicts communist influence in the civil rights field,

emphasizing the key role of Martin Luther King, Jr.

This

document is a current revision of the previous

analysis

captioned "Communism and the Negro movement - A Curreni AudiySis,"

prepared and disseminated in Novenber, 1964.

In updating it.

we have emphasized these areas:

(1) continued reliance of King

particularly Stenley

movements and King's adherence to this communist long-range

objective.

a speech he made at New York

on 4/4/67 shows how much he has been influenced by communist

advisors. His speech was a direct parallel of the communist

position on Vietnam.

It is felt that the President would be interested in

& summary on King which shows the degree. of communist influence.

wigs on him.

The attached paper constitutes a complete picture and

strong indictment of King in that regard.....r.rtdg

RECOMMENDATIONS:

It is recommended that

(1) The attached letters, with enclosures, to the

White House and the Attorney General be forwarded to Assistant

sitio: the Director Deloach: for transmittal. to Mrs. Mildred stegal.

the white House. and the Attorney General

26a01200

CONTINUED - OVER

-NW+65360-Docld:32941718.Page 74.

---

## Page 75

084 G

axis.110, 88

UNITED STATES GOSEPYMENT

Memorandun

: 1r. He C. Sullivan,

C. D. Brennan

DATE: AugUSt 21, :1967

ВЕСТ:

HANTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

PURPOSE:

* Material in parenthesis has been

added in place of excised portions.

To obinin poproval to disseminate to(a repzesentative c

ariendly Toreigh Intelligence Servico,

lashingion, i.

а сору ої

ine monograph entitica,

"Connunist Influence in Racial Matters--, Current inalysis."

BACKGROUND:

(This individua)

has advised

that the vietnam Protest Movement s

is considoring Inviting pronneni incricane to inciure

÷ 12

on Vietnam.

Martin Luther King, JI.,

President of

the Southern Christion Leadership Conference,

has been

information of i political

or subversive nature concerning.

King(so that the head of his Government might be briefed).

OBSERVATIOY:

moderagio

since thore is à good possibility king might ba

invited to

Jin the near future, it is deened

desirable to advise appropriate governent officials of

his hcavy

alliance to Connunist advisors and his immoral

conduct.

RECOIDENDATICN

?.

The attached document be disseminated by routing

through Liaison Section.

slip to

Enclosure

The ast and is not for dissensi-

cool preecdoes by..

sid oriaphorsel persons

NW 65360 Docld:32989718- Page 75

---

## Page 76

OPTIONAL DORM NO 10

MAY 1969 EDITION

9017-108

CBA CEA, HI. MO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVB

NMENT

Meniorandum

To : Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : G. C. Moore

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE:

2/29/68

Mr. Tolson has suggested, and the Director agreed,

that the monograph on Martin Luther King, Jr:, be brought

•up to date.

• This is an excellent suggestion and we have already

started the necessary research. Bringing this monograph up to

date and disseminating it at high level prior to King's "Wash-

sington Spring Project" should serve again to remind top-level

officials in Government of the wholly disreputable character

of King.)

As you know, King's "Washington Spring Project" was

originally scheduled for early April, 1968. However, our

Washington Field Office has developed information that King's

group is experiencing difficulty in recruiting individuals

to participate in the demonstration and the date for the project..

wy" has now tentatively been set for April 27; 1968.

Because of the importance of doing a thorough job on

this, we will conduct an exhaustive file review to bring togethe!

the most complete and up-to-date information and to present it.

in a hard-hitting manner.. Io make the brief timely,. we will

have it completed and ready for dissemination by March 14: 1968•

RECOYMENDATION:

1786A6d

For information.

T'his document is propored in response to Wrence and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Coomeier

your Committee and the

warcedings by

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 76

---

## Page 77

FD-291 (Rev. 11-1-75)

EMPLOYMENT. AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (F'BI), United

States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare

that I intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the

President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations

issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal

Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-

authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other

classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of

the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files

of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could

result in impairment of national security, place human lifé in jeopardy, or

result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects

of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its

responsibilities. I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-

fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge,

publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to

any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the

• Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory

files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the

performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden

is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed

and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each

such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to

the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand

that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed

in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking. about the FBI but

it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be

contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is

in a better position than I to make that determination;

(3) I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official

duties with the FBI and all official material to which I have access remains

the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand

by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any

material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal

law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may

be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment

in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and

following termination of such employment.

(Signature)

(Type or print name)

Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, F'BI, on

• 19

(Signature)

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 77

---

## Page 78

".

REVISED SEPTEMBER 1970

U.S. CIVIL

SERVICE COMMISSION

.P.M. CHAPTER 295

OMB APPROVAL NO. 50-R0118•

APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

JUSTICE

(Department or agency)

(Position to which appointed)

FBI

(Bureau or division)

(Date of appointment)

WASHINGTON, D. C•

(Place of employment)

-, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that-

I, -

A. OATH OF OFFICE

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and

domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely

without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge

the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

• I am not purticipating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any agency

thereof, and I wili not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United States or

any agency thereof.

C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any con-

sideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing this appointment.

(signature of appointee)

Subscribed and sworn (or affirmed) before me this

_ day of

A.D. 19

at

WASHINGION, D. C.

(City)

[BEAK]

Commission expires_

(If by a Notary Public, the date of expiration

of his Commission should be shown)

(State)

(signature of offcer)

(Title)

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 78

GPO: 1970 0 - 108-925

---

## Page 79

3-26 (Rev. 3-20-64)

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

United States Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20535

(Place)

(Date)

Dear Sir:

Having received an appointment for a position as Special Agent in the Federal

Bureau of Investigation, United States Department of Justice, I hereby agree and affirm

that I shall be governed by the following conditions:

1. I am required to proceed at my own expense to Washington, D. C.,

where I shall take the oath of office and enter on duty.

2. That my appointment is a probationary one.

3. That I shall remain on duty for a minimum period of three years,

contingent upon a satisiactory work record.

4. That my retention in the Federal Bureau of Investigation is dependent

upon the performance of satisfactory services, and if my services are

deemed unsatisfactory it is understood that my employment may be dis-

continued at any time and that I shall not receive transportation to my

home, or to any other point, at Government expense.

5. I may be sent to any part of the continental or territorial United States

that the exigencies of the Bureau's work may require; that my head-

quarters may be fixed in some jurisdiction other than that in which I

have heretofore resided; that my headquarters may be changed as the

work of the Bureau may require and that no transfer will be made from

one station to another for personal reasons.

6. That the confidential character of the relations of the employees of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the public is fully understood

by me, and that the strictly confidential character of any and all in-

formation secured by me, in connection directly of indirectly with my

work as a Special Agent, or the work of other employees of which I

may become cognizant, is fully understood by me, and that neither

during my tenure of service with the Federal Bureau of Investigation

nor at any other time shall I violate this confidence, and I agree and

affirm that I shall not divulge any information of any kind or character

whatsoever that may become known to me, to persons not officially

entitled thereto at any time.

I understand all of the foregoing and the conditions specified herein are agree-

able to me without reservation of any kind. I agree and affirm that I shall abide by the

foregoing conditions, and I am fully cognizant that the provisions mentioned above are

to be complied with by me and they are a part of my appointment.

Very truly yours,

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 79

---

## Page 80

FD-375 (Rev. 8-28-72)

UNIT

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JU

NICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washington, D. C. 20535

Date:

TRAINING AGREEMENT

In consideration for the following specialized training which will result in considerable time and expense

to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), I,

remain in the service of the FBI for Department of Justice, as to final item below for the time specified, consing ent

upon my maintaining a satisfactory work record.

so that I may receive training in classityin

i the l performing rainer int duties ra least one year from this date rints erstand to te may ine he isid,

consistent with the demands of the service, to work at night.

• So that I may receive training in [ stenographic [ typing skills, I agree to remain in the F Bl for a minimur

of one year after completion of training. In addition,

agree to accept any assignment in any division at FBIH6

or Washington Field Office consistent with such needs for my services.

• So that I may receive training in [ automatic data processing equipment [ cryptanalytics, I agree to remain

in the FBI one year after completion of formal training.

• So that I may receive training in a foreign language, I agree to remain in the FBI for three years after I success-

fully complete this training.

• So that I may receive advanced training in maintenance and repair of FM radio equipment, I agree to remain in the

service of the FBI for at least one year following completion of the training.

• So that I may receive training under the Government Employees Training Act to be given me at

-. I agree to remain in the Department of Justice for a minimum of

_ after completion of training. If I voluntarily leave the Department before

expiration of that period, I will pay the Government the amount of the additional expenses paid by it for the

above-mentioned training.

Signature

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 80

---

## Page 81

application for Employment

FD-140 (Rev. 10-16-73)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INYESTIGATION

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Date

IOTICE: Application must be typewritten or clearly printed in block ink. All questions must be answered, if applicable. If not, indicate NA (not applicable), Applications whick

are not complete and legible will not be considered. It spaco provided is not sufficient for complate answers, or you wish to furnish additional information, attach sheets of the sam

sizo as this application, and number answers to correspond with questions.

Chack Position Applied For:

[Special Agent

[Laboratory Aid or Technicion

→ Spacial Agant (Accountant)

_Tronslator

→ Radio Mointenanco Tochnician"

Nurse

Applicants for this position must complete "Questionnaire for Radio Maintenance

echnician Position

W Clark-Stenogropher

I Clerk-Typiss

→ Clerk (See Item 4,

Clerk positionge 2 on Fingerprint

Dothar

1. PERSONAL HISTORY

2. Name in full (Lass, first, middle)

b. Social Security Number

c. List all other names you have used including nicknames; if female, furish maiden name. If you have ever used any sumames other than your true name, during what period

and under what circumstances were these names used?

if you have ever legally changed your name, give date, place, and court.

d. Birth date (Month, day, year)

Naturalized? Yes ONo

Derivative' —Yes No

Place of birth

I Single

7 Married

I Widowed

Divorced

[ Separated

e. Are you a U.S. citizen? EYes C]No

Naturalization #

Place

Explain derivative citizenship —

2. MARITAL STATUS

Date

Place of Marriage

Date

Place of Divorce or Legal Separation

3. RESIDENCES

a. 'Present Residence Address: (Aporment, street, city, state, zip code)

Date

Court

No. of Children

Court (See Section 13 k)

Telephone Numbers:

Residence

Business -

b. Complete address to which you wish mail or telegram sent (include zip code and telephone number if different from above)

Lift ay bologically ALL of your residences in the past 10 year include addresaee while attending school if away from home, and all military addresses including any off

Dates

From

To

Mo. Day Yr. Mo Day Yr.

Apt.

Street Address

City

State

The Federal Bureou of Investigation is on aqual opportunity employer.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 81

---

## Page 82

4. AVAILABILITY OF APPLICANT

n. Have you previously submitted an application for employment with the Federal

o. Ye appointed to a clerical position, I am willing lo dorve a minimum period of one

I No

b. expense willing to proceed to Washington, D. C. or other duty atation, at your own

.. lyou socent leaser pition if no vacancy existe or you fail to qualify for the

DYes INO

dAre you interested in to tele eterni appoint en?

qualifications of appointees and vacancies.

you willing)

3. If appointed as a Special Agent, I agree to serve a minimum period of thre

years and completely understand that I must be available for assignment where

ever my services are needed.

•YeB [No

Earliest date available for employment.

i. How much notice of reporting date do you need?

5. EDUCATION

8.

Dates

Name of School

Location

High Schools

From

To

Mo. Day Xr.| Mo. Day| XT.

Course Pursued

Degrees or Diplomas

Colleges

Graduate School

Miscellaneous

b. Were you ever dismissed from a school, or was any disciplinary action including scholastic probation ever taken against you during your scholastic career?

O No

D Yes

School

athlotic

Type of Action

d. List ony spacial abllities, interests, sports or hobbies with degree of proficiancy.

recognition you received

e. Indicate your proficiency in each phase of each foreign longuage listed as "Blight? "good," "fluent."

Name of Language

Speak

Understand

Read

Write

f. Are you a member of the bar?

No [Yes Dateía)

8. Are you a certified publie accountant?

→No [Yes Date(s)

h. Are you a licensed automoblie opurator?

_No []Yes State(a)

_ Statels).

State(s)

Driver's License #

6. EMPLOYMENT

List chronologically oll employmente, including. summer and part-time employments while attending school. All time must bé accounted for. If unemployed for a'poriod, indicato,

sotting forth dates of unemployment.

Dates

Name and Address of Employer

a. Name

From

To

Mo. Day Xr. Mo. Day Xr.

Salary

Position and Kind

of Work

Name of Supervisor

Reason for Leaving

Address

City & State

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 82•

---

## Page 83

6. EMPLOYMENT

List chronologically oll employments, including summer and part-time employments while attending school. All time must be accounted for. If unemployed for a period, indicato,

setting forth dotes of unemployment.

Dates

Salary

Positi Workd Kind Name of Supervisor

Reason for Leaving

Name and Address of Employer

b. Name

From

To

Mo. Day Yr. I Mo. Day Yr.

Address

City & State

c. Name

-

Address

City & State

d. Name

Address

City & State

le. Name

Address

City & State

I. Name

Address

City & State

8. Have you ever been dismissed or asked to resign from any employment or position you have held? No [J Yee

. Are boy ros or have you ever been omployed by an agenty of the federal Covemon to lude partime employment) No _ Yo

. Do you have any Foure of income other than your alary or that of your apouse?

_ Location

Specify each with amount

7. MILITARY RECORD

a. Are you registered for Selective Service? No Yes

8. Solective service alacefcation? Have outer ted any note a Basis you my bo Called into the Amed Force in tho near nutri No

0. Branch of military service

Type of Discharge

Badio for Discharge

I. Serial number

8. Dates of active duty (month, day & year)

From

To

i. Member of Reserve? No Yoa

• Ready

Standby

Service Branch

3

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 83

---

## Page 84

j. Was any type of disciplinary action taken against you in the service?

@No [Yea Naturo of:

k. National Guard L Present

C Former

• None

If you attend drills, meetings, or camps, give name of unit and location.

Summer camp attendance: From

- To.

Where.

I. Do you claim veterans proference?

D No

[Yes Basis: [ Active duty between 12-7-41 and 7-1-55

_ Active duty subsequent to 1-31-55 in excess of 180

consecutive days

Service-connected disability D Wife [Widow [ Mother

8. REFERENCES

i point lie wrote it me one, i lode uph of pen, i coachee i i hope die you of gro le tarding in pro corny tore

who have known you during the past five years. If retired, give former occupation.

Complete name

Addresses:

Residence -

No. утв. acq.

Occupation

Complete name

Business

Addresses:

Residence

No. yrB. acq.

Occupation

Complete name

Business

Addresses:

Residence

No. yrs. acq.

Occupation

Business

Give three social acquaintances in your own age group including both sexe.

Complete name

Addresses:

Residence

No, утв. асд.

School or Occupation

Complete name

Shine or

Addresses:

Residence

No, утві acq.

School or Occupation

Complete name

Stool or.

Addresses:

Residence:

No. утв. асд.

School or Occupation

scarl or

9. FOREIGN TRAVEL - (MPLITARY SERVICE, RESIDENCE, VISIT)

Ble

Have you over visited or resided in any foreign country (including travel in the Armed Forces of the U. S.)? No [J Yes

Passport #

Date issued

_Place issued -

Dates

Countries Visited

From

To

Mo. Day

Yr. Mo. Day Yr.

Reason for Travel

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page-B4

---

## Page 85

b. Specy over get da in the Armed Forces of a foreign country? No

• Yes

c. No you or any members of your immediate tamily, including in-laws, have any relatives now residing outside the United States (except those in the Armed

Forces ci the United States or those employed by the United States Government living abroad) ? No [Yes. If so, list below and furnish desree of

association and contact you and members of your immediate family have with these relatives.

Name

Relation

10. CREDIT RECORD

a. He your side deer ever been on of ered tors tin tom or have you ever been refused credit?

• Are you indebted to anyone

| No

List any debt over $100. Also list any debt, regardless of the amount, where payment is past due

Creditor

Address

Amount

11. COURT RECORD

& HaVe le beered oh fom ye, ange di ano containe afte to at guise of mater elied by payment of line or forfeiture of collateral. )

Place and Department

Charge

Final disposition

Details

§b. Has any member of your family or close relative (including in-laws) ever been arrested for other than traffic violations? © No DYes

Name

Relation

Date

Place

Charge

Final Disposition

co Have a, a ever be dispition. or defendant in a court action including divorce actions? No Yes (Give date, place, court, names of parties involved, nature or

12. ORGANIZATION MEMBERSHIP

an Are you now, or have you ever been a member of any elub, cociety or offunnation? No Ye. yee, list below. do not poteviateld and extent of activity

City and State

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 85

---

## Page 86

b. Are you now, or have you ever been a member of the Communist Parly, U.S.A., Or any communist or fascist organization? No EYes

c.

(If answer to any of these is "Yes," explain fully.)

husband or wife.

13. RELATIVES

and are or lo, ave any menaries of you immedie, familie we hated in divore comeren though a rela

Sven though a relativ

Complete Name, including Middle Name (no initials) ; Complete Address

Occupation & Name & Address of Firm

where Employed

Naturalization or. Alien

Registration Number, Date

nd flace of Naturalization

¿ applicabl

8. Father

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

b. Mother (Include maiden name)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

C. Wife or Husbond (1f wife, include maiden name)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

d. Childron

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Name

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Namo

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 86

---

## Page 87

Complete Name, Including Middle Name (no initials) ; Complete Address

13. RELATIVES (Continued)

Iccupation & Name & Address of Firs

where Employe

e. Brothers

Address

Birth date

Nome

Address

Birth date

Nome

Address

Birth date

f. Sisters

Address

Birth date

Nome.

Address

Birth date

Nome

Address

• Birth date

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Place of birth

Wives (including maiden names) and Husbands of Brothers & Sisfers

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Name

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Naturalization or Alien

Registration Number, Date

..and Place of Naturalization,

it applicable

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 87

---

## Page 88

Complete Name, Including Middle Name (no initials) ; Complete Address

8. Hivos and Husbands of Brothers & Sisters (Continued)

13. RELATIVES (Continued)

Occupation & Name & Address of Firm

where Employed

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Name

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nomo

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

h. Father-in-law

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

i. Motherin-low (Include maiden name)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

j. Brothors & Sistors of your Husband or Wife

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nome

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nome

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Naturalization or Allen

Registration Number, Date

and Place of Naturalization,

if applicable

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 88

---

## Page 89

13. RELATIVES (Continued)

Occupation & Name & Address of Firn

Complete Name, including Middle Name (no initials) : Complete Address

there Employed

j. Brothers & Sisters of your Husband or Wife (Continurd)

Address

Naturalization or Alien

Registration Number, Date

and Place of Naturalization,

if applicable

Birth date

Place of birth

". Other relatives with whom you have resided for an extended pariod of time

indicate relation, including name and present location of ex-spouses)

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

Nome

Address

Birth date

Place of birth

14. RELATIVES EMPLOYED BY THE GOVERNMENT

List the complete names of any of your close relatives (including in-laws) who are employed in the Federal Government.

Complete Name

Agency by which Employed

Location

15. FRIENDS OR ACQUAINTANCES EMPLOYED BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Complete Name

Length of Acquaintance

16. RELATIVES FORMERLY EMPLOYED BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Complete Name under which Employed

Current Address

Relationship

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 89

---

## Page 90

:

=

ALL APPLICANTS

ttach an unmounted full face photograph of yourself, not larger thar

* × 24 inches. Print your name plainly on the back of the photograph

The photograph must have been taken not more than 3 months prior to

the date of this application.

• Do you now here and vive diver had any chronic or serious illnesses; or have you ever had arty serious operationa or injuries? No _ Yes

describe and give dates>

d. Have you ever been hospitalized? No Yes

Dates

Hospital

31o. Day| Tr.

Location

Reason

o. Dashi and eithere in porival on diap, defect, or diability nor previouly covered, but including extent of defective vision, if any, with and without slasaos

& Hayo ever tened i here ends when, and paled a, den, i i spicy moto or con dion for on dia diebt No Yes

• Special Agent Applicants Only: Do you have any physical defects such as, but not limited to, a bone, joint, or other deformity or loss of finger, which woul

reclude unrestricted, resular participation in all phases. of the FBI's firearms training, physical training and defensive tacties? ^ No Ye

(If "yes" describe)

Signature of Applicant as Usually Written (Do not use nickname)

GPO: 1974 - 538-864

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 90

---

## Page 91

..

Office of th Attarmy Grarral

Washington, I. C. 20330

May 2, 1975

Lloya N. Cutler, Esquire

Wilmer, Cutler &

Pickering

1666 K Street, N.W:

Washington, D.C.

20006

Dear Mr. Cutler:

Pursuant to our discussions concerning the disposition of

certain records relating to the surveillance activities

directed at your client, Mr. Joseph Kraft, the Department

is making the following

• temporary arrangements:

I. Pending further vepartmental action relating

to the policies which will govern records of the

¿ype invuived in ta. Mast's case, ali. documenter.

scustody of control which constitute,

summarize, or describe the contents of the over-

hearings obtained"

the result of any electronic

surveillance directed against Mr. Kraft and mem-

bers of his family will be placed under seal.

2.

As long as the items described above remain

under seal, no ollicial or employee of the Depart-

ment will have access to them for any purpose, and

no official or employee of the Department. will

allow any person outside of the Department to have

any such access, crcept as described below.

Ihe

only material referring to these items will be a

single index card needed to locate the sealed items.

The index cara will bear only Mr. Kraft's name and

a file number.

3.

Should some future need which we do not now

foresee require any official or employee of the

Department to obtain or permit access to the

aforesaid items,

the decision on such access shall

be made personally by the Attorney General. The

Attorney Cencral shall not grant any access without

notifying MI. iraft of his counsel in writing at

least ten days prior thercto, and providing him or

NW 65360, Docld:32989718 Päge 91

---

## Page 92

-2-

them an opportunity to discuss the matter per-

sonally with the Attorney General before the

grant is made.

The notice shall set forth the

date upon which access will be permitted if it is

granted, and

the purpose for which and person by

whom access is sought. The Attorney General will

personally inform Mr. Kraft or his counsel of a

decision to grant access as soon as practicable

after it is made, but in any event at least five

business days before access occurs.

4. Although this arrangement is not intendea to

constitute a permanent solution to the questions

you have raised concerning these documents, it

will not be rescinded or modified by the Attorney

General or his successors unless the Attorney Gen-

eral gives fir. Kraft or his counsel ten days'

prior notice and affords him or them an opportun-

Ity to discuss the matter personally with the

Atiorney General before he rescinds or modifies

this agicamont.

If the ittorna; Cencial then

decides to rescind or modify this agreement he

shall personally 1nIorm iir: Kraft or his counsel

of that decision at least five business days before

it

is implemented.

As a result of our discussions, I understand that this

: temporary arrangement is acceptable to Mr. Kraft, of course

without waiver of any legal rights he may

have as a result

of prior surveillances.

As I advised you, we are working

now on genoral policy dcterminations which, we hope, will

offer a permanent solution to the problem this settles temp-

orarily.

Of course, under the terms of this agreement we

will notify you of ary policy determination which would

involve a modification of this agreement.

Until a final policy is determined, this agreement shoula

assure Mr. Kraft that no person will read or otherwise use

these documents in any. manner so long as they remain under

the seal arrangement.

Sincerely.

. =

Lawaran

Levi

Attorney General

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 92

іні.

---

## Page 93

Memoranduni

Mr. Sullivan

DATE: June 22, 1961

FROM

• R. 0. L'Allier

• .

SUBJECT:

LIAISON NITE INIIGRATION AND NITURALIZATION SERVICE, (7N3.

Liaison with INS has been handled for the past several

years by sh Sam Papien

who also handles liaison with the central

Intelligence Agency. (CÍA).

the purpose of this memorandum is

to reconnend that SA Papich be relieved of his assignment with

INS in order to devote full time to CIA.

INFORMATION. RELATING TO INS

CIA continues to be one of the most

that Si Papich should be relieved of his INS assignment in order

to devote his entire attention to CIA.

INFORMATION RELATING TO AGENT TO RE

ASSIGNED TO HANDLE LIAISON WITH INS.

ACTION:

If you approve, liaison responsibility for INS will be

transferred from Sa Papich to

NAME

This document is prepared in response to your request and in not for ariser

nation outside your Committee.

Its use i limited to official pioceedings by

your commitee und the content may nut be ausclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FEl.

orbit thais

cade NAME

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page.93.

---

## Page 94

F.) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) - DOMESTIC CONTACT

SERVICE - You previously have been informed regarding CIA's Contact

Division which has had offices in various U. S. cities and which is openly

identified as being connected with CIA. This division has been responsible

• for the overt collection of positive intelligence gained through interviews of

aliens, travelers, büsinessmen, etc. The division has not been engaged

in any operational activity such as the development of double agents. For

your information, CIA has reorganized this division and it is now called

the Domestic Contact Service.

An examination of CIA's activities in the area of overt collection

oi positive intelligence has indicated that the Bureau can strengthen its

position by having our field offices establish direct contact with the local

oifices of the Domestic Contact Service. This particularly applies to those:

situations where the Bureau and CIA both have an interest in Soviet-bloc

and lugoslav nationals, excluding those who are connected with embassies

or the United Nations.

We recognize that CIA has a responsibility for

collection of positive intelligence (i. e. information regarding Soviet-bloc

capability in a particular research field) which might be acquired from

such risitors hut we rannot condone any CIA activity which might

interfere with Bureau operations. - You therefore are authorized to

establish liaison with local offices of the Domestic Contact Service.

9-28-65

• SAC LETTER NO. 65-54

- 5 .

This document is prepared is response to your request and is not for arsena

nation outside vour Committee.

Its use i: limited to official proceedings m

your Committee and tho content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized persoi

set without the express approval of the fBi.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 94

---

## Page 95

In each case when you initiate any inquiry or investigation of a visiting

Soviet-bloc national, you should obtain from the local Domestic Contact

Service the nature and extent of CIA interest and all pertinent information

which CIA has gained or may acquire in the future relating to our internal

security responsibilities. If you feel that CIA activity conflicts with

Bureau objectives, you should so advise the Seat of Government, clearly

setting forth your reasons. In this connection; there may be instances

where continuing CIA pursuit of positive intelligence would conflict with

the Bureau s discharge of its internal security functions.

Very truly yours,

John Edgar Hoover

Director

9-28-65

SAC LETTER NO. 65-54

NW 65360-Doeld:32989718- Page 95

---

## Page 96

TRITED STATES COVERNMENT

FEMORANDUM

TO

"SUETECT:

: Director,. FBI

SACS Fhiladelphia

CENTRAL INTELIIGENCE AGENCI -

DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE

NEORMAECON CONCERNING

• DATE:

10/25/6b

Re Section (E), SAC Ietter 65-54, 9/28/65.

NAME.

Thiladelania Office, Cer-

inal Intelligence Agency (CIA) Dezestie Coatect Service, was

contacted on 10/14/05 a5 directed in referenced SAC Istter:

WAME

advised he had just returned from conferences at his

Tgency Readguarters in Washington, where he had keer advised

-== Eureau was directing 1tz field offices to establish 1i9isca

sith the local offices

of the Donsetic Contact Service.

NAME

offered his complete cooperation with this office In mat-

if mutual interest.

• Ta:

Arrangements were perfected whersin Agents of this

cérice making innutries on investigatica of a soviet-Bloc Na-.

etonal car contact

NAME

and

ke will place then it contact

Kin the bonestic Contact Service reprzsentative hendling the

case, de that Informetion or interest to us

in be secured.

su Inornation coming to the 2tte.0109 oi The Ucnesslo Contact

Service relating to our intermal recurity respcasiblilties will

te imediately repcrted to this cifice.

NAME

Trenuested, 1a view co his Aganer's regu-:

that CIA not, be identified as the source in the event

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside your Committee,

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

tWW.65a60mBocld:32989718 Page 96

---

## Page 97

1nêomation received from his effice should be Includca a

communication going to anyone outside the Bureau.

NAME

res assured that CIA's Identity in this regara scula de fuiri

protected.

INFORMATION RELÄTING IS THE

TERRITORY COVERED BY THE PHLADELPHIA

OFFICE CIA DOMESTIC CONTACT SÉRVICE

INCLUDING NAHES OF CIA PERSONNEL...

PIQUEST OR THE SUREAU:

In the course of future contact. with CIA in these

• easte; 1t 1s enticipeted that CIA representatIves mey it times

request information relating to Subjects' backgrourd, habits,

and characteristics, as well as any availabie photographs.

Ine Bureau is requested to auvise 11 1t will be per-

=Issible to orally furnish such background information to the

cIn, representative and to furrish copies of phoicgraphs, 1f

they. are avallable.

• The Burezu Is also requested to advise If the establish-

zant on liaison on the field offles level with cInis Domestic

contact Service envisages the furnishing of Ie20zus mid letess-

head memos to this service at the field office leve, mure tog

have a legitimate interest in the susjeco.

• 2

• NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 97

---

## Page 98

SAC, Palladolphia

10/29/65

CENTRAL, IXTELLICINICE AGLICY SCIAL

BORISTIC CORTAOT STEVICE •

INFORATION CONCIRNING

Reference is undo to your lotter dated 10/25/65.

Tin turosu has been lollotiny s policy of not dissenirating

Barzas Information to the jonestic Coatact Service at a iccal level.

1I23 DOL1SY Bill COltiQUo UniOss you he scvisod to the contrary.

In the event that the locel ClA office desires infernation

concerairo iny subicots suci requests scould be dirccied by clA to

sureza Leadquarters.

our Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized persor

nel without the express approval of the FBl..

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 98

---

## Page 99

GSA GEN. MIG. NO, 81

UNITED STATES GUV ENMENT

Memorandom

TO

: Mr. C. D. Deloach

DATE: 6/25/70

FROM : W. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT: LIAISON WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

The Director has inquired rezarding the nature of

any liaison existing between the Washington Field Office

(WFO)

and CIA.

Limited liaison does exist, being addressed to

specific operational cases and name

checks.

WFO, of necessity, is in contact with CIA concerning

specific cases in the espionage field. for example,

SPECIFIC EXAMPLE

GIVEN

In addition, CIA has a domestic operations office

in the District which

makes name checks with WEO and secures

background information concerning foreign diplomatic personnel.

No liaison is conducted with respect to policy matters and the

objective of all contacts is the handling of immediate opera-

tional matters.

ACTION:

For the Director's information.

::.

+0998997049.40

: :

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

ration outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to officin! " nceedings by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the fBl.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 99

---

## Page 100

"OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY IRAT IDITION

O$A GIN, AIG. NO. 2Я

UNITED STATES GOV

Memorandum

S01D-108

HMENT

TO

: Mr. C. D. DeLoach

DATE:

6/26/70

FROM

: 1. C. Sullivan

SUBJECT:

LIAISON WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

WASHINGTON FILLD OFFICE

My attached memorandum, 6/25/70, discussed the

operational contacts between

the

Washington Field Office

(WFO) and CIA's local donestic operations office. In. Tolson

noted "I thought all such contacts were to be handled by

letter" and the Director said "I most, certainly intended

the same." We are instructing WO accordingly.

It is possible that other field offices have working-

level contact with the CIA offices in their territories.

If

¡tho Diroctor desires, similar instructions vill be issued to

Ithem.

ACTION:

(1) Attached for approval is a letter to WTO

instructing that all future contacts with CIA are to be

handled by letter.

(2) If the Director desires, an SAC Letter will be

prepared

containing similar instructions, applicable to all

offices.

No

203:

16-az.

.;.

"лio•iі..

'".

':.1006..

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissem

nation outside your Committee.

Its use i: limited to official proceedings ou

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBl .

%...

";..

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 100

---

## Page 101

karch ?, 1970

lot.

So agar hoover.

Director

Federal Buront of Investigation

insitington, D. G.

Dear ii. Hoover:

•I ask thrt you approve my request, to retire from burenu service

end, If it is conventent, to hive this retirement become elective /Xl

• For severnl. weeks I have been giving this matter serious th ughü

since I began questioning ay carability to bring abut - bettes coordin-

med eilori direcied against foreign intelligence nrgets, particulrly

those of the Comunist-Bloc. I have always aimed for perfection, but I

do not find that the desired results are being achieved.

for "Inost. 1.8

gears I have handled an assignent during a period of turbulent. hertic,

and controversial developments in the area of Intornnl Security -ü, S.

invelligence, It ias nost challengings very crewarcing, out aloo punion-

Into

Bccause of this deep involverent I nou realize that I hare borily

neglected my responsibilities as a father and husband.

"ith the tire I

may have leît I would like to give my finily thé attention it righitully

deserves.

It would be nusi disionesi vine if i diunit commoni vi int io-

cent events wnich have led to the severance of dircet lizison nith the

Central Intelligence igency. Since I hnve been the principal. Bureau cle-

ment in the day to day relations between

the organizations, to as boch

ny responsibility. do anticipate problcus, nove in on the situation, rad

en-tect Bureau intorests in an efficiont ind effective nonner. I have re-

rieved ry position in his latest developrent, and I certainly murt share

responsibility for the tragic üurn of ovents.

I believe that I nicht have

employed better. perception by following devclopnents in Denver more closcly.

¡I deeply regrot ünis. I do not like to fail. I do not like io lose.

I have been involved in intelligence operations dating back to

ons steve or for i can sit be see that in rase

curity threats fron communist intelligerce services who, thion nolice

sinte organizations, have developed unuswlly schisticated com atlities

Date of Decles ilication l Lefinite

to strike at cur vulnebilities of a democratic nd free scirl.

conünuing and triority. target of the Bloc is to neneur-te and molit or

disrupt our irternal. recurity ond intelligence orgarizations.

Contenry to

The tenpo of the tires many yours ago, there is hardly an intelli ree 0-

er-ülon or in internal secirity cose thirn does not have dircet ci in irect

internationnl ranirications.

the course of events and the tirily corle

effoctiveness of Communist-Bloc intelligence cervices have alreed irres

ing burdens on is and have necessitated close voring relations it: 4,

maliuly intelligence services and other agencies.

shy cases, the rapid weans of travel id commication, the drily cecur-

ace of energoney tpe political dovcloponts in various mits ni the

world have varmited direet liaison with approximtoly trenty Clicitic-

'Inle on a drily insis. In nodition, there -re abut thirty atrinials

contected with longer frequecy. The BurMATTONAkECURiTY INFORMATION

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 101

SEGRET

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subiect to Criminal Sanctiong

---

## Page 102

•-2-

Intelligence Bonrd md

mb-coni! tren-which cover

Uters such as

handling of roicrt.ru,

valorent of crouier procrus, lonks of clossi-

fied inforintion and prodiction of intollirence studies.

taches have rcason to collact cal on a regular bacle,jund itchourn it tas

been a stall volue of business:

the line al comication botreon o. cc-

mestic offices and loon. CIl rebresent-üives has been definitely usciul.

The aally business tim su relates to hunareds of cases portinit o

activitles-01 all, Comunict-sloc services, the te: left, Black inter-l-

ists, the Cornist farty ma related orgminations, and politionl crises

in arens such is Vietnan, the riddle last, and Intin America.

Ticorctic-

ally, ~1l business could be handled by ruil, but fron a pretic-) at-ra-

point such a crocedure vill lcd, to unbelicole chaos:

There will he

lalmost insurrountable obst: cles if se ie to discharge our duties in

resconsible liner ind if'e -re to counter a relentless croy in tre

interest of nation security. Becausc interesis of other agencies cre

frequently intertuined ith cases involving the Bureau and CIA, the breal:

in BI-CIA Liaison ill adversely affect our liaison with such

agercies.

I thin' you will spore my alarm over the consequences once tie

word is received by the "troops" in all U:S. arancies that iBI md 'T

no longer have any liaison.

uniorimately, there will be individuals to

wall malicicusly alstort and nisinterpret the true faces.

tithin a short

period, there :ill be stories in the press, ann anist of all. the Cori-

nist-ilor services il nick un a choice entree for the piorotion o1 sic-

srilliul.and extremely barndul disruntion. I an absolutely convincce

that the intelligence services of Great briünin, trance, •est Germany are

others are well penetrated by the soviets.

I can't, beliove that. the 2:11-

bys, the Blakes, the alrer Misses were the last of the renctrations.

mention this bec-use if such peneti-tions exist, the brenk in rel-tions

between the WI and CIA will provide a basis for promoting furtner rilos.

this is the lirst thre in our nisory hat such an event hos occurren, -re

it is difficult to believe thrt the enemy will noù rake cvery eflcrù to

reap the greatest profit possible.

Bricity, tr, Hoover, Iinve too muc

respect for you and our "bl to expose us to a potentially disastrous sivi

Although the Denver incident is a blight on the rel-tions be-

tween the iSI and CIA, it would be nost unfair of me not to comment or.

the dedicated and selfless efforts of nunercus individuals in ClA ho

strived for honest and harmonious relations. As a result of their en-

deavors there have been many services performed in behnlf of the Bures:

including notable and outstanding accomplishments.

We have beon furnisis.

sources, iniorints, solid productive cases, technical advice and equip-

ment, ind there have been instances of cooperation unich led to subster-

saving, of Bureau funds.. There also have been cxamples of nlertress

on the part of CLi employes which prevented Burenu conmission of errors

and averted erbarrassrent. nong sone of the more significant examnles

of cooneration I cite the excellent and badly needed assistance of CLi

in the Rudolph muel case.

I also refer to tine Agency's providing us wiin

one of the better crininal informnts we have häd in recent years in tre

person of NAME

I only refer to the foregoing to emphasize

that, if at all possible, ve should preserve the good friends and the

supporters of the Bureau.

193-1511

It is recornized thit one con also present a bill of mrtic-

ulars reluting to ciples o1 nocr coonerntion and deliberate stular

W 652602ocd:37,89415Page 107 for those in CIA iho disrupted relations betice:

---

## Page 103

The b10 transits l

feel bot the

in it

ative ide, the lived

•I: 190168-618: 160013009

in circas of to dodiertd

mamotion mill dever tied the roomed ci

such ires ae the moron bie is reclinibio do their inflaccee in crost

informicly, Ch neo bilioves tort, in the

pasi to did not mars not in a derright comer, ma the dooney undett-

son may not realize tits to

years quo ve chioned or repaintica rang Cla emoloyes.

acterined as boing revian and bicke ins a dreided readeshere 01 115tu5..

Happily, tant is not ine citruie? rodrye

I an confident be you orio

into my segront of Cli, pore aed coroad, and dou will find te midelit:,

Bravery, mà Intomily me sinceret related to the 13t, The prostons in

post jerrs winily arose tron ubelievebly pocr commication cucug in-

crested, ties.

Wiis conniration ins cech grostly imrorod iccuse ci

the efforos of nuny dedierted people.

Neverthelees, there is roon for

improvereit.

In ou on bureat tere are mnerons officials and onloyes

who have listlo or no inecage of the badiground and the principles oi

the National Security Act of 1947 and of the Rational Security Council

Directves.

these sure people have a vague conception ol

the objectives and ticuichs ed on intolligence orgendartion.

snil-ris,

within Cia nere nre very mony zhose concepdion of die BI, its june-

diction, is objecüires, its Ion enforcer cut cinracier, is stocking at

tikes.

Precondous proyeess has been mado, but it is not easy to haron-

iously cocainate the onentions oi an miniantim designed to oper te

in a clandestine manice with an aconcy which is basie.lly a las enorce-

mant baày.

is still coposed of a fragile tabric. Me incident yotentinlly can de-

stroy joars of constructive eriort.

ii. Hoover, I rescectaully recuest that you roconsider the

decision to sever liaison with ine Central Intelligence Agency.

I ayecal

to you to leave the door open for furthor celiberation because I am con-

fident this contic can be satisfaciorily resolved. I believe that my

reioval fro: the soone provides the opportmity to argoint ancther agent

who vill scasure li to your desirca croabilities and vho mill be able co

mitly resolve the cool lin a nor and fresh appranch. It issatio

tine to recxurine our relations win Cli and to make adjustments

factory to: 0u.

since i readay

feel tint I had

a firn oblization and duoy to cormunicate with you be

cause of the vory natire of sy

assiment these many ycar's and becauce

of ny involverent in this controversial case.

ly years with the Burcau gave me more satisf ction then anyone

can in-gine.

You mould have to Inor me better to appreciate this.

want to assure you thrt unerever I go or whatever I do I will be premred

to be of service in any cause which involves the preservation of a strong

and respected in1.

Sincerely yours,.

Sun Papich

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 103

---

## Page 104

TO

FROM

:

SUBJECT:

FRAMENT

Memoranu

Im

C.

DeLoach

DATE: March 5, 1970

H. C. Sullivan

RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA

Attached is, a memorandum dictated by Special Agent

Sam J. Papich in response to the Director's request for the

Identification of the instances Papich had in mind when in

his retirement request he indicated that CIA "believes that

In the past we (FBI) did not always aci in a forthright manner

and the agency undoubtedly could present a list of grievances."

•A list identifying

memorandum.

A review of the 25-page document reveals that it

contains several instances in which CIA has registered its

dissatisfaction and could conceivably renew its complaints,

and chars in chich prasumably. CIA had no knnwledge of Rureal

action and has made no complaint.

For the Director's further information, I have

instituted in this Division an analysis of each situation cited

and

a memorandun will' be prepared as to each, containing my

Vews and recommendations as a result

of that analysis. This

is being handled on an expedite basis and the memoranda will

be sent through as soon as possible

nel without the express approval of the FBl..

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 104

---

## Page 105

7.70

MAY !.

UNITED STATES G

NMENT

Memorandum

11918

: The Director

DATE: March 5, 1970

ROM : Sam J. Papich

!.

UBJECT: RELATIONS WITH CIA

Reference is made to my letter of 3/2/70. I made the

statement, "Unfortunately., CIA also belleres that in the past

we did not always act in a forthright manner, and the Agency

undoubtedly could present a list of grievances." It is my

understanding that you want such grievances identified. There

1s enclosed herewith a list of cases or situations which arose

over the years.

Based upon a review of files and my personal recollection

this list would be representative of matters which CIA could use

for making charges such as:

not being forthright, not playing

fairly and squarely, not cooperating, not being of assistance,

not recognizing the need for concrete FBI contributions to the

foreign intelligence effort.

What CIA may have compiled over the i

years is unknown.

What situations are known to CIA and have not

come to our attention cannot be answered at this time.

I am

thinking of leaks including distorted information which may have

been passed to CIA from ex-Bureau employees and CIA informants

and sources;

It should be clearly emphasized that there is no

indication whatsoever within CIA that the Agency has been seeking

any kind of a showdown or confrontation with the fBI. Contrary,

to what some people may believe, the relationship between the

two agencies up to the recent crisis was never better despite

the problems which have arisen from time to time. I am confident

that a thorough and impartial examination will conclusively

support the foregoing.

In order that there may not'be any misunderstanding, it

Is Important to emphasize that the Bureau can also produce an

extensive list of justified grievances. We can also produce an'

excellent record of support which we have given CIA; presumably

CIA could do the same.

There are ingredients for continuing

conflict and there is also adequate machinery for maintaining

sound working relations and producing badly needed intolligence

Information:

.:.

Classified by 12

Exempt from GDS, Category, 28 3

"USEDIT

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctiong

Date of Declassification Indefinite

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 105

---

## Page 106

Microrandum to th

• NE: RELATIONS H

director..pur?

'H CIA

I believe that it would be most helpful to you and

interested Bureau officials when evaluating and passing judgment

on the attached material if we analyzed very briefly the role

•* of the Bureau liaison Agent. A liaison Agent can be a simple

mail courier or he can be the true Bureau Agent ready to coniront

any problem or issue with another-ency, very often working with

very limited information. It is expected that the Bureau Agent

carry out his instructions forcefully and efficiently. He must

be prepared to handle all types of personalities under various

conditions.

He must be alert for pitfalls and express hinself

in a most judicious and prudent manner but always making certain

that the Bureau position

is well fortified.

..*

In evaluating the attached and my encounters with CIA,

it should be noted that protests from the Bureau always were

easy to handle because the Agent

had J. Edgar Hoover behind him.

However, when an Agent struck atian official on one day and

-solicited his cooperation the next day; it did require some

resourceful action. It is believed that other liaison Agents

regularly encounter similar situations.

On nunerous occasions

1'have bittorly Ecuded with CIA officials and this has included

rough language. I have walked out on CIA officials when

I felt

they were unreasonable. They took the initiative by asking the

Agent to return.

I did try to play fairly and squarely with all

of them and never hesitated to accept a confrontation; this includi

the Director of the Agency.

When

'I lectured to CIA personnel

over the years I always made a point to challenge them to present

any grievances or raise any subject matter relating to the

• Bureau. I never left a discussion with any CIA official without

'being positive that our position was absolutely understood.

the approaches utilized by me might be open to criticism.

can only refer, to the records of the Bureau. and CIA and I believe

the Bureau's position is most favorable. I don't think CIA has

ever transmitted a letter of protest to the Bureau during the

eighteen years during which the Agent handled the assignment.

ACTION:

For information.

рутова

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 106

SLUAL

- 2 .

---

## Page 107

CASES AND/OR SITUATIONS

INVOLVING CONFLICTS WITH THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

(1) MOCASE (THE BORIS MORROS CASE) .

This was a sensitive Soviet-espionage case

which originated in 1943 and terminated for the most

part in 1957.

The case had many wide foreiga ramifi-

cations and historically has been, and undoubtedly

will be, one of the most important. and involved cases

of Soviet operations in this country and abroad.

He

did not disseminate any iniormation of significance

In this case until 1954. On various occasions when

the Liaison Agent has become involved in heated argu-

nents with CIA officials, they have seen fit to raise

this case as an outstanding example of FBI failure to

cooperate with the Agency. The position taken by CIA

was that it should have been advised regarding the

Soviet operational activity in foreign countries,

claiming that the Agency would have had the opportunity

to develop more information of significance, identify

Soviet agents, and possibly prepare conditions for

recruitment or doubling of Soviet operatives. He did

not disseminate our reports to CIA because of the

!

permit CIA to handle any investigations relating to

i

the MOCASE until 1957.

• :

In 1957, CIA complained that it certainly had

every right to have received the information earlier

because many aspects of the MOCASE pertained to CIA

employees and operations. CIA further argued that it

had been greatly handicapped in effectively carrying out

the leads in 1957 because the leads were given to the

Agency at the same time that the case was publicized.

The Agency argued that the failure of the Bureau to

coordinate with CIA those French aspects of the case

permitted the French, rather than the U.S., to play &

dominating role in Europe.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure •

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

:19lage99e

ELSTIL

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 107

---

## Page 108

• .

REDAT

With regard to dealing with the French, we

took the position that we would cover the leads through

our Legal Attaches wherever possible and to furnish

leads to CIA in those countries where ne did not have

Legal Attaches. CIA maintained that since we were on

record that our Legal Attaches do not handle operations

abroad, the Bureau had an obligation to levy those French

leads on CIA or at least coordinate with the Agency

(before going to the French.

It is to be noted that in any argument relating

to jurisdiction in this matter, CIA will fall back on the

responsibilities placed on the

Agency under the provisions

of the National Security Act of 1947 and the implementation

of the foregoing through National Security Council Direc-

tives. CIA will maintain that' it is incumbent upon the

Bureau to recognize the provisions of the National Security

Act of 1947 and the Directives.

The 'Agency would argue

that in the MOCASE, these were ignored by the Bureau.

(2)

SENSITIVE ONGOiNG

_OPERATION

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 108

---

## Page 109

-SEGRET

SENSITIVE ONGOING OPERATION (continued from page 2)

- SEGRET

3

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 109

---

## Page 110

SECRET

• SENSITIVE ONGOING OPERATION (continued from page 2 and 3)

(3) THE ABEL CASE

Although CIA has not raised the point for

several years, the prevailing attitude was, and probably

still exists,

that the FBI did not play it square with

CiA in the abel case by not making certain that the

Agency was given the proper recognition for its contri-

butions. CIA feels that in the first place, there would

Inot have been any U. S. access or availability to the

source in this case,

NAME

because CIA took

the full responsibility for moving

NAME frOM PLACE

Ito the U. S. in 1957. CIA claims it took the risk and

responsibility of doing this after the Bureau declined

to become involved in any operation designed to transport

NAME

was an alcoholic and that his first contacts with CIA

in PLACE raised questions concerning NAME

mental

stability.

After NAME arrived in the U. S., we

arranged access to him for a period, the purpose of

which was to obtain a complete story of his intelli-

gence activities in theU. S. and we were particularly

Interested in identifying all of his associates, es-

pecially the man who later was identified as Rudolph

¡lAbel. After a short handling period in the U. S., we

dropped NAME because he became a problem.

It was

an extremely critical situation because we had not yet

Identified Abel. CIA agreed to take the responsibility

for the carrying and safeguarding of NAME but we

1ºOnE

BLUIL

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 110

---

## Page 111

were given free access to this difficult source. ' This

was a most fortunate arrangement as far as CIA was con-

cerned, because this adjustment gave us the time to work

and subsequently develop the leads which

led to the apprehension of abel, the Agency has main-

tained that it was largely responsible for making

absolutely certain that NAME

was mentally and

physically prepared for testimony at the Abel trial.

NAME

was a key witness.

CIA has- also referred to

the heavy expenses incurred by the Agency, all

for the

benefit of the Bureau. CIA has complained

that the

Bureau never really thanked the agency for its coopera-

tion and CIA has been particularly irked becaused the

Bureau did not see fit to inform the. Attorney General

or the White House of the role played by CIA.

(1)

NAME OF SUBJECT

...

In July, 1953, Senator

NAME

sought

to subpoena NAME

AUD

OCCUPATION

to

testify before the Senator's Committee.

NAME

claimed

that MAME

alleged communist activities were clearly

documented. The most serious allegation was that

-.. --

IDENTIFFING

All of this ras publicized. The Incornation set forth

in the newspapers emanated

"from a Bureau report.

CIA

Dlanned to charge the Bureau MILD LeakIng the IDIOMatIOI

LOSenatOr NAME

• CIA officials held numerous con-

ferences concerning the matter but charges were never

made against the Bureau.

What information CIA has on

this particular item is not known but the Agency did

now that we maintained liaison with NAME

Committee.

(5) BUREAU DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION CONCERNING

In May, 1954, Allen Dulles raised the question

concerning the propriety a FBI dissemination of information

concerning

NAME

This information had been fur-

¡nished to us by

NAME

& former official of the

SECRET

• 5 .

MW 65360 Docld:32989718- Page 111

---

## Page 112

Department of Labor:

When interviewed by us, NAME

made several accusations against CIA. He disseminated

the information to the White House, the Attorney General,

and some data also went to the State Department. Dulles

took the position that by disseminating derogatory in-

formation concerning his Agency, he had been placed on .

the spot because the

data was not the

complete story: In the past, CIA informally referred

to this as an instance of very unfair conduct on the part

of the Bureau. :

(6) BUREAU HANDLING OF CIA REQUESTS FOR TOURS

FOR FOREIGN OFFICIALS

On occasions in the 1950's,

CIA complained that

officials visiting the U. S. under CIA sponsorship were

given excellent treatment on the tour but, nevertheless,

many. of the visitors left most disappointed because they

had not had any contact with any Bureau officials.

CIA

felt that contact with Bureau officials had very

significant

benefits and left lasting favorable impressions because of

the FBI's world-wide reputation.

CIA also pointed out that

when foreign visitors had no contact with Bureau officials,

they were left with

the suspicion that there was some kind

of friction between the fBi and ClA..

In 1956, we had a

clear-out policy to the effect that

tours for

such visi

tors would be of a restrictive nature in that such

visitors would vier our facilities normally seen by the

public and

nothing more. CIA was so informed but

that our policy prevented the

It should beemphasized that for the past several

years there would not be any basis for any fornd complaint

with regard to Bureau treatment of foreign officials coming

to the U. S. under CIA sponsorship. The personal attention

• Igiven to such officials by

NAME

and

jother officials and Supervisors in the Domestic Intelligence

Division has been outstanding and benefits have accrued to

' the Bureau.

These visitors have gone back to their native

CLURLi

NVL65360-Docld:32989718. Page 112

... ..

---

## Page 113

countries with far better impressions than in the

past. In addition, we have learned more about these

countries, their services, and their security chiefs

• by spending a few minutes with them. Needless to say,

this kind of treatuent has also immeasurably helped

our Legal Attaches.

(7) CIA - DUTCH INTEREST IN SOVIET ESPIONAGE ACTIVITY

In 1965, the. Dutch Internal Security Service

was in the process of investigating individuals in

Holland who allegedly had been engaged in Soviet-espionage

investigating

activity. The Dutch wanted to have certain individuals

in the u. S. interviered and approached ClA to make

inquiry at the Bureau. At that time, our relations

with the Dutch had been practically nonexistent because

the Dutch had failed to honestly deal' with us in the

CâsE of

NAME AND IDEVIFCING DATA

who had been

clandestinely collecting intelligence at the National

Security Agency. When CIA approached us, we-told

the Agency that the dutch could submit their request

through-diplonatic channels. He subsequently told CIA

He would not handle the interviews for the Dutch.

Ye

stuck to our position. CIA surrendered but felt that

He were impairing their eiforts to gather information

concerning Soviet-espionage activities in Europe.

(8). TWO NAMES

NAME

TDENTIFFING

• ----

• ...

DATA

, during Horld War It, established a

private intelligence network,

operating throughout the

world but primarily in Europe:

His sources included

any number of European exiles who came to the U. s.

Phile he was in business, he was financed by the State

Department, then the department of the Army, ana In the

later 1940's and into the 1950's by CIA.

NAME

established contact with the Bureau through one of

his subordinates,

NAME

who periodically called

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 113

---

## Page 114

on us and furnished information which

NAME felt

was of interest to us.

NAME

This dissemination t

through

continued during the period of

relationship with CIA. We never informed CIA that we

were receiving such information which also was of

interest to the Agency.

It is possible that

had given the same data to CIA but we do not know. CIA

and NAME

clashed and the relationship was severed

in an atmosphere of severe bitterness.

In the last

years of its dealings' with NaMe •

• the Agency had

successfully penetrated the latter's organization and

allegedly had identified many of the sources. CIA

hinted to the Liaison Agent that It had become aware

of the relationship between NAME

and the Bureau.

organization

How much CIA really learned about

this relationship is not known but if its penetrations

were significant, the Agency may have developed evidence

to justify a charge that the Bureau had withheld infor

mation from CIA, particularly when we were receiving

the data from an organization which was financed by

the Agency.

(9) COMMISSION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF THE

EXECUTIVE BRANCH OF THE GOVERNMENT

(Herbert Hoover Commission. - 1954)

In October, 1954, a task force of the captioned

Commission initiated a survey of CIA's operations under

the leadershiyci NAME

In MONTH, 1955,

we were advised by a representative of the task force

that Senator. NAME

had furnished the group a

list of CIA employees who were considered subversive.

CIA became cognizant of this development and there was

so who were

talk within the Agency that the Bureau had furnished

the names to the Senator. When the Liaison Agent was

Informally approached on this, he flatly told the Agency

to officially submit its charges. The Agency never did.

That information CIA may have had on this matter as it

pertained to the Bureau is not known. It is possible that

the Agency's attitude

was strictly predicated on a knowledge

• I that we maintained liaison with the Senator's Committee.

-SECRET

• 8∞

NW-65360_Docld:32989Z18 Page 114

---

## Page 115

(10) INTERNAL SECURITY LEADS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES

During the 1950's, we gave our Legal Attaches

numerous leads stemming from internal security cases in

the U. So. In many instances we did not see fit to

notify CIA although the Agency always maintained

that

you could not separate "internal Security" from "counter-

intelligence,"-namely a lead in France pertaining to a

communist in the U. S. warranted advising CIA, if not,

at least asking the Agency to handlé the lead. In the

last several years, it is not believed that there is

any basis for complaint since we have regularly been

notifying CIA concerning subjects of cases who travel

abroad.

If the Legal Attache is investigating, CIA is

notified in order to avoid duplicate efforts. There

have been exceptions where we have taken the position

that CIA should not be notified because of the sensitivity

of the matter. How many such exceptions are known to

CIA cannot be established from our files; however, we

should boar in mind that when nur legal Attaches inves-.

tigate, they contact many of the same foreign officials

normally contacted by CIA. How many of these foreign

officials are CIA informants, or on the Agency payroll,

is unknown.

(17) BUREAU OPERATIONS IN CUBA

We operated informants in Cuba when we had a

Legal Attache's Office in Havana. Informants reported

on activities of communists and other subversives in

that country. During the period we operated these

informants, we did not coordinate our operations with

CIA. We did not advise the Agency that we had such

iT operatio

sources.

However, in 1960, after Castro

• came on the

scene, it became infeasible to handle certain informants

in a secure manner. Approval was granted to turn certain

Informants over to CIA. What these informants may have

subsequently told CIA about past Bureau operations is

unknown. This item is being cited in the event CIA had

evidence to establish

that we had been operational in

Cuba and had not coordinated with the Agency pursuant

to Directives.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 115

---

## Page 116

(12) BUREAU OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL -

In YEAR the U. S. Ambassador in Brazil accused

our Legal Attache of engaging in uncoordinated covert

Intelligence activity "of a nature which I believe

exceeds his terms of reference."

The Ambassador further

indicated that. CIA was unhappy over the Legal Attache's

activities and the Agency allegedly had told the Ambassador

that the Legal Attache had disseminated information from

& source who was a fabricator or a provocator. This

situation arose as a result of the Legal Attaches

operation of an informant in Brazil. Some of the

Information that he received from the informant was

of a derogatory nature and related to a Brazilian who

was being touted as a Presidential, candidate.

CIA

asked for the identity of the informant and we told

the Agency that the person could not be identified

because he did not wish that his identity be disclosed.

This case is being cited because ClA may have evidence

that we had been operational in Brazil, had not coordi-

nated pursuant to Directives, and that the matter was

further aggravated because of the alleged unreliability

of the information.

(13) BORDER COVERAGE

INVOLVES SENSITIVE METHODS AND TECHNIQUES

•--°

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 116

SECRET.

• 10 ..

---

## Page 117

-SECRET

SENSITIVE METHODS AND TECHNIQUES

(Continued from page 10)

(14) CODE NAME

In HaY, YEAR

the Bureau's' double Agent in the

captioned case was advised by his Soviet contact that he

was to have a meeting in

PLACE

during the period

DATE

A question arose as to whether CIA

should be iniormed concerning the double Agent's travel

to PLACE

it was recommended and approved that we

not advise CIA.

That is important here is that CIA established

contact with.our double agent at ore point. The Agency

may have had further contact without our knowledge.

The

Agency may have also picked up the contact with the Soviet

•IN' PLACE

The case is being highlighted since we

cannot exclude the possibility that the Agency has evidence

to demonstrate that me were operational in PLACE and we

did not coordinate with the Agency.

(15) CIA REQUESTS FOR BUREAU LECTURE ON CONDUNISM IN THE U. S.

On September 25, 1958, CIA inquired 1I NAME

could give a lecture on the communist movement

In the U.S.

It was recommended that NAME

give the

lecture.

Such lectures were being afforded in other parts

• 01 the Government. The Director made the notation "Ye

CannOt make NAME

available to this outiit." The

Agency accepted this as an affront and a blatant refusal

PRIEUIL

∞ 11 c

"??

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 117

---

## Page 118

SECRET.

to cooperate on a most important subject of interest

to both agencies.

(16) CASE OF NAME

On july 9, "TEAR an official of the State

Department confidentially advised the Bureau that

NAME

a CIA employee in pLACE, had been

Involved in an affair with a FoREIN girl. According

NAME

allegedly had furnished information

to the FopElaN girl.

He checked with the State Departnent

and CIA and we confirmed

MAHE

an affair and that he had been recáiled.

involved in.

According to

Gin and state Department, there was no indication that

NAME

involved in any espionage against the

U.S. CIA gave consideration to requesting the Bureau

to ideniify iis source and then changed lis mind.

Whether CIA has documented this as an instance where

the Bureau failed to cooperate by not volunteering the

source is a matter of conjecture but, it is a case that

should be kept in mind.

(17): NAME OF CASE

In April, 1963, we became: involved with CIA in

that Agency's efforts to collect sensitive information

relating to foREIGN Governent intentions to conduct

espionage against the U. S. CIA had access to a sensitive

source,

NAME

, who was in a position to make

available highly important

FOREIGN documents. On April 11,

1963, CIA inforned us that our Legal attache in PLAcE had

locally contacted

CIA concerning this matter. CIA Head-

quarters was highly disturbed because its office in placE

had not been cut in on this operation and the Agency wanted

to be informed regarding the rature and the extent of our

dissemination of CIA information to our Legal Attache. We

SIGHL

• =12.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 118

---

## Page 119

8

-SECRET

determined that the Legal Attackehad made inquiries in

PLACE in response to leads which had been sent from Bureau

Headquarters.

This matter is being highlighted because

it was a vitally important operation to CIA and the Agency

had received indications that information had been leaked

to FOREIGN

authorities.

He have no evidence or reason to

believe that the Legal Attache Office ever involved itself

in any such leak.

However, We should not, under any cir-

cumstances, discount the fact that CIA has penetrated

FOREIGN services and has had access to sensitive information

In PLACE

The FoREIGN have always had an outstanding cap-

-

ability of tapping phones and installing microphones in

PLACE

Such coverage on U.S. officials, including their

residences, should never be excluded. The information we

had conveyed to our Legal Attache possibly may have been

acquired by the FoREIGN through clandestine coverage. CIA

possibly could charge us with

handling their sensitive

Information in an insecure manner by'fransmitting it to

pLAcE without conferring with the Agency.

In connection with alleged Forelay copionage

activity in the U.S., CIA bas never been satisfied with

the efforts made by the Bureau.

The Agency possibly could

take the position that we looked lightly at the allegations.

and did not pursue a matter which, in their eyes, merited

a more aggressive approach.

a position that

the fOREIGN Intelligence Service

For some time, CIA has held t is penetrated by

• the Soviets. The Agency has pointed out that If the FoREIGù

are collecting sensitive information in the U. S., the

-

product is ending up in Moscow. • In January, 1964, we

reviewed the status of our investigation of ForEIGN intel-

The Director commented

"I think this whole thing has been imaginary on the part

of CIA which has been played as a sucker by NAME

I would waste no more time on it at least until all CIA

restrictions are removed." CIA did impose restrictions

by not permitting us to pursue certain leads because 1t

feared that its sensitive source would be jeopardized.

SECRET

c 13 .

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 119

---

## Page 120

(18) LEAKS TO THE "NATIONAL REVIEW" - 1959

•In April, 1959, CIA became concerned over the

appearance of certain items in issues of the "National

Review." The publication carried a column authored by.

an unidentified individual who was making derogatory

references to CIA. CIA subsequently identified the

a former CIA employee. CIA

investigation indicated that NAME was obtaining his

information from former CIA Agents. In checking on

NAME CIA identified some of his friends who were

former member of the Senate

Internal Security Subconmittee; and NAME

former

Assistant to the Director. The Liaison Agent was unable

to develop any additional information as it might have

pertained to NAME

in this particular matter. CIA

may have additional data not

• revealed.

(19) TRAVEL OF BUREAU INFORMANTS TO CUBA

In September, 1965, we received information

Indicating that one of our informants on the Mexican border

was in a position to travel to Cuba. A question was raised

concerning CIA interest in this matter, if the informant

made the trip. It was recommended and approved that me

not advise CIA concerning the identity of the informant

or his trip to Cuba.

It is not known if CIA acquired any knowledge

but, if the Agency did, we potentially are vulnerable.

The Agency could charge that we were operating outside

here a graphone .

of the U. So and we failed to coordinate with the Agency.

(20) DISSEMINATION OF CIA INFORMATION IN A BUREAU MONOGRAPH

By letter dated May 5, 1965, we disseminated to

interested agencies, including CIA, a copy of a monograph.

entitled "Communism in the Dominican Republic." The mono-

graph contained considerable information which had emanated

SHONE

•14.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 120

---

## Page 121

SIGNET

from CIA.. We did not obtain clearance from CIA for

the inclusion ofthis information in our monograph.

Clearance approval was not obtained because of the

urgency of the document. CIA was irritated because

it considered our action a distinct violation of the

third agency rule. The Agency never made any protest.

(21) BUREAU INFORMANTS IN PLALE

...

In 1966, and 1967, we were operating informants

IN-PLAGE

the inception

of our operational ac-

tivity, CIA vas not informed. In one case, we finally

were able to effect the necessary arrangements with CIA

whereby the Bureau would be pernitted to run the informant

In the second instance, we established an

agreement with CIA in October,' 1967, that we could con-

tinue handling an informant in PLAcE : with the under-

standing that the Bureau Agent, on the occasion of each

visit, would confer with the local CIA office on political

information collected Irom the Intormant. These iwo cases

had all the makings of a conflict. CIA was under the

definite impression that we had been running these

informants before we had finally coordinated with them.

It is true that the CIA Chief in PLACE was much

incensed but no issue was made at CIA Headquarters and

thematter was put to rest.

CIA may have developed concrete evidence that

we were operating in

PLACE

bearing in mind that in

a place such as

PLACE

., it would not be difficult

for a CIA intelligence officer to spot an FBI Agent in

contact with ForEIGNERs • Our potential vulnerability is

that we were operating in pLAce

without coordinating

with CIA.

(22) CODENAME

CURRENT SENSITIVE

OPERATION

;. =

→..

- 15

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 121

---

## Page 122

CURRENT SENSITIVE OPERATION

Cortinued from page

15

(23) HARRASSHIENT OF CIA

By letter dated November 15, 1967, CIA inquired

If the Bureau would check the toll calls on

the home

telephone of one NAMÉ

who was harrassing

CIA in the Miami area. NAME allegedly was seeking

information sorcerzing the Agency's covert operations.

-He told CIA that we rould not check the toil-calls.

He

explained that on the basis of the information received,

there was not sufficient information to justify investigation

our response but there is no doubt that the Agency

falling within theBureau's

CiA accepted

characterized our position as a concrete example of

refusal to help a sister agency with a problem relating

to the security of U. S. intelligence operations.

(24)

SENSITIVE DOCUMENI

CIA became very irked when we restricted

dissenination of our SENSITIVE DACUMENT

to

two copies for the Agency. CIA took the position with

• the Liaison Agent: that CIA always has been most liberal

In providing the Bureau with as many copies as we needed

when it involved various types of CIA material. The

Agency never made an official issue of this matter. The

Liaison Agent is confident that ClA alrays considered this

an uncooperative gesture on our part.

CHESTE

∞ 16.

-

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 122

• t

---

## Page 123

Laudie

•(25) ESTABLISHIENT OF BUREAU LIAISON WITH

•DUTCH INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICE - 1960

• In January, 1960, our Legal Attache,

traveled to Holland for the purpose of exploring arrange-

ments for liaison with appropriate Dutch authorities.

NAME

raised questions, pointing out that over

the years, all relations with the Dutch authorities had

been handled through CIA: He indicated that before there

was any change in procedure, it yould be necessary for

CIA and FBI to come to some

form of an agreement. Allen

Dulles subsequently expressed disappointment in that his

Agency had not been contacted by the Bureau prior to

exploring the liaison arrangement. He eventually conferred

with CIA and came to an agreement satisfactory to all

parties concerned.*

Again, CIA could cite this as an instance where

we failed to coordinate with the Agency in line with

National Security Council Directives.

In the latter part of 1959 we gave consideration to

establishing a Legal Attache in Copenhagen, Denmark.

The

purpose of the assignment was to follow Bureau leads in

Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Holland. He did not inforn

• CiA of our Intentions.

(26) • BUREAU DISSEUINATION OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

INFORILATION TO FOREIGN SERVICES - DATE

By letter dated

ДДТЕ

, CIA raised

questions concerning the propriety of Bureau dissemination

,oi counterintelligence information to foreign intelligence

services. Cle, at that time, had particular reference to

information which our Legal Attache had transmitted to the

FoREIN Intelligence

Service concerning K68 operations. CIA

•Itook the position that pursuant to the coordinating

C500T

∞ 17 -

NW-55360-Docld:32989718. Page 123

---

## Page 124

-SEGALT

Directive, the Bureau was obligated to coordinate with

CIA prior to such dissemination. The particular data

had emanated from one of our sensitive Forbon sources

CODENAME He responded to CIA by stating that the

information was the product of an internal security

operation and did not relate to any operational activity

CIA again surrendered.

that it was responsible for following Soviet matters

o1c 200

The Agency could argue

with the FolEli Intelligence Service and that we had an

obligation of coordinating with the Agency.

(27)

TITLE OF BOOK

AUTHOR

BOOK AUTHORED BY

In August, 1963, we leceived information ind1-

cating that

AUTHOR

in the process of gathering

material for a book pertaining to activities of U. S.

Intelligence activities:

AUTHOR

contacted

the Bureau. It was recommended that liaison orally advise

CIA that

AUTHOR

preparing a book con-

cerning U.S. intelligence agencies. The Director. noted

"I see no reason doing so."

It is not known if. CIA was aware of the contact

with the Bureau. AuThoR

subsequently published the

book which contained extremely derogatory information

concerning CIA.

(28) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES - AFRICA

In April, 1960, CIA inquired if the Bureau would

give any consideration to assisting the Agency toward

developing coverage in Africa.

CIA was looking for the

services of any Negro informant who might be available.

The Agency also inquired about placing a Negro in the

Connunist Party, USA, under a plan which would have as

an eventual objective; the sending of the informant to

123r

• 18 .

NW 65360 Docid:32989718 Page 124

• to

---

## Page 125

SECT

Africa under an appropriate cover and for an extended

period. We told CIA we had no informants available

because they were necessary for our own operations. He

took the position that we saw no benefit to be gained by

Loaning an informant on a short of long term basis.

• This item is. being mentioned because Africa

has become vitally important to U.S. interest, bearing

that as early as 1960, it had the foresight to recognize

the need for additional coverage, that it appealed to the

Bureau for assistance, and that we did not cooperate.

(29) ADVISING THE WHITE HOUSE REGARDING CRITICISM

OF INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS. - EUROPE

By letter dated October 23, 1964, we furnished

the White

House information received

by our Legal Attache

from the

SOUPGE

He was critical

of intelligence operations in Europe and made particular

reference to the overstaffing of personnel.

He do not know if CIA became cognizant of the

existence of the Bureau letter bearing in mind that the

Agency undoubtedly would have considered the document as

relating to. Its operations. He do know that for several years,

CIA personnel have been assigned to the White House and had

access to considerable information.

(30) THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY

BOARD AND JOHN. HC CONB

In Hay, 1963, we became embroiled with CIA in a

rather critical conflict as a result of communication the

' Bureau sent to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory

Board.

The matter dealt with consideration that might be

given to increasing wire taps on diplomatic establishments.

SLUT

• 19 .

NVL65360_Docld:32989718_Page 125;

---

## Page 126

LONG

In a portion of'

our communication, we attributed cer-

tain information to licCone, then Director of CIA. He

charged that the information attributed to him was not

so because he had never made any such statement and he

could prove it. The actual fact was that the information

relating to dcCone had been given to us by one of his

subordinates who had indicated that the information.

originated with icCone.

McCone maintained that we

should have checked with him before we went on record

that any information had. originated with him. The

record at the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory

Board was subsequently corrected.

(31) ALLEGED PENETRATIONS OF CIA

In February, 1965, Bureau representatives net

with CIA officials and with . NAME

to discuss

allegations made by NAME

= Soviet defector, relative

to alleged soviet penetrations of CIA. NAME

interviewed in detail concerning these allegations.

letter dated February 26, 1965, we officially advised CIA

that there appeared to be no basis at this time for a

full investigation of the individuals involved.

There are off cials in CIA who continue to be

seriously concerned about possible penetrations of the

Agency and have not discarded NAME's allegations.

We do not have any reason to believe that CIA

has developed any substantive evidence to support NAME'S

allegations. If it does, me could be vulnerable and could.

be charged that we did not cooperate and conduct the

necessary investigation in 1965.

(32) VICE PRESIDENT NIXON'S TRIP TO SOUTE AMERICA - 1958

In 1958; Vice President Richard M. Nixon traveled

to Latin America during which time there were numerous riots

•and attacks which were directed against the Vice President

jand his party: By letter dated May 16, 1958, we provided

the Vice President with a summary of information which we

had received concerning the events in Latin America relating

MilL

∞ 20

NW 65360 • Docld:32989718 Page 126

---

## Page 127

JAGILT

to the trip.

Most of this information came from CIA.

Our letter could be interpreted as raising, the question

concerning the quality of CIA's coverage In Latin America.

•It is not known if CIA ever became knowledgeable

of the referenced communication.

As already indicated;

we do know that CIA personnel have been assigned to the

Thite House.

He also know that' NAME AND

TITLE

CIA, was attached to Vice

President Nixon's staff.

II CIA is cognizant of the communication, the

Agency technically could raise a question concerning a

violation of the third agency rule and, furthermore,

could question the Bureau's propriety of making reference

to CIA's coverage in Latin America..

(33). NAME OF SUBJECT

The captioned individual is a criminal infor-

mani won we have been utilizing to very significant advan-

tage in New York City. He has been the source of valuable

criminal intelligence and has been a key witness in

prosecutions of cases being handled by the Bureau. We

acquired access to NAME

through CIA. A covert CIA

operator in Ner York City had become acquainted with

NAME

saw his potential as a source of criminal intelligence,

• and then conferred with

NAME

CIA.

NAME

contacted the Bureau Liaison Agent and asked if the Bureau

was interested. Negotiations were initiated and re

subsequently, acquired the services of NahE

Although

the Agency has never officially made any statement to us,

27 has been bitterly disappointed that the Bureau never

acknowledged CIA's assistance which the Agency considered

extremely valuable.

(34) EXCHANGE OF TECHNICAL INFORMATION

For naby years, we maintained tight restrictions

with regard to the exchange of technical information with

Cia, particularly as it related to the technical surveillance

ileld.

Cia exhibited its equipment to us but, for many years,

ve declined to show any of our devices, with some exceptions.

∞ 21 ..

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 127

---

## Page 128

SLut

CIA never made any official protest but informally

indicated from time to time that the lack of exchange

In this highly important field was prejudicial to over-

all intelligence and internal security interests.

The

Agency implied that we actually were more open with the

British in this general area than we were with CIA.

It should be noted that the foregoing situation

does not exist today. There is good exchange between the

Bureau and CIA. .

(35) CIA LECTURERS AT BUREAU TRAINING SCHOOLS

CIA has never been able to understand why the

Bureau will not permit CIA personnel to lecture at Bureau

schools or training courses. CIA has felt that through

a careful selection of lecturers, the Agency could make

a very valuable contribution both to the Bureau and to

CIA.

The Agency has indicated that its participation in

some of our courses would give the Agency the opportunity

to describo CIA's organization, obicotives, and oporational

problems. Furthermore, it has

personnel could be given the opportunity to pose questions

and there would be a far better over-all orientation on

the part of our people.

request.

The Liaison Agent has always resisted CIA's

It has been a delicate matter to handle because

Bureau personnel have lectured to hundreds of CIA employees.

(36) EXCHANGE IN THE TRAINING FIELD

Although CIA has never officially made an issue

of the matter, the Agency has not been happy about our

attitude concerning exchange of information in the training

field.

When the matter has been broughtup for any discussion

by CIA, the Agency has been discouraged.

CIA informally has

expressed the feeling that an exchange along certain guide-

Ilnes could be most useful to the U. S. intelligence and

Internal security effort.

:.'"

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 128.

---

## Page 129

SECRET.

(37) POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

This is an area where discussion with CIA

officials can rapidly generate criticism of the Bureau

for failure to cooperate and offer the necessary assis-

tance.

Positive intelligence, briefly, is that information

which might assist the U. S. Government in formulating

foreign policy.: Much' of it is of a political nature and

8 vital portion pertains to sclentific developments, military

capabilities of foreign countries, and intentions of foreign

countries. Positive intelligence

is rot only important

as it concerns the communist-bloc countries but also

the non-bloc nations.

There never has been,

any'lar, Directive, or

Executive Order which has fixed the responsibilities for

the clandestine collection of positive intelligence in

the U.S.

The Bureau does have a responsibility which

we refer

to as internal security and which falls into the

accepted area of counterintelligence. He do investigate

subversives spys, and

we develop penetrations of foreign

intelligence services. Our work in the positive intelli-

gence lleld, for the most part, has been restricted to

the compliance of requests imposed upon us by the state

Departnent, usually when a political crisis occurs in

some country.

• CIA has maintained that there is a tremendous

unexplored

field for expanded acquiresent of positive

Intelligence in the U.S.

This would mean vastly increased

technical surveillance coverage, development of informants,

and collection of cryptographic material. CIA does not

feel that we have aggressively moved as this particular

subject and that over the years, the igency has been

thwarted in its attempts to do much about the problem.

IN DATE

, CIA requested the Bureau to

• Install technical surveillances at the offices and temporary

residences of two FOREIGN Governuent officlals visiting the

U. S. Pursuant to instructions, CIA xas told to seek the

authority of the Attorney General. The Director stated

that he did not want CIA utilizing FBI as a channel.

• 28 .

NW 65360 Docld:32989/16 Page 129

---

## Page 130

stom

In the same month, CIA Inquired 1f the Bureau

i would reestablish technical

surveillance coverage on

NAME

who ClA felt was a key figure in the

transmittal of scientific intelligence data to the

FOREIGN Intelligence Service.

We declined to reinstitute

the coverage: CIA considered the matter important because

of It's relationship to the PLACE

On October 21, 1969, we told CIA that future

requests from. ClA fon technical surveillance coverage

should be transmitted by the Agency directly to the

Attorney General.

CIA has never made any official comment or

protest but it has considered the afore-mentioned action

by the Bureau as unfriendly and uncooperative. The Agency

has looked to the Bureau

as the logical point of contact and

as the only organization baving the besources and capabilities

of adequately determining if such coverage is even feasible.

(38) MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS

The Liaison Agent recalls fragments of other

situations or conflicts which occured over the years and

which resulted in the voicingo CIA displeasure or criticism..

The Agent cannot recall the names of the cases which is

necessary to acquire the required data. There was one

Instance early in the 1950's which involved information

received from a source of unknown reliability charging

Allen Dulles with having been a communist and a spy

while

in Europe.. He disseminated the information to several

agencies. Dulles exploded but never lodged a protest.

The Agent also has recollection of instances when

CIA alleged that its source or informant was compromised by

Bureau revelation of CIA infornation during the course of

interviews conducted by us.

recanically, this would be a

violation of the third agency rule and, if Cla had hard

core facts, me would be vulnerable, particularly if an

Important informant was lost. CIA never made any off1c121

Issue or protest.

c 2% -

NW 65360 Docid:32989718 Page 130

• to

---

## Page 131

-SECRET

There also have been instances, but cases

cannot be recalled, where we included CIA information

in Bureau reports but CIA had requested that the information

not be passed outside of the Bureau. Cla never protested.

25

_NWL65360_Docld:32989718 Page 131

---

## Page 132

MAT TINY

DIA GAM. PIG. NO. 19

UNITED STATES GOVF

MENT

Memorand

: Mr. C. D.

Deloach

DATE: March 11,

1970.

ROM : W. C. Sullivan

nation outside your Committee.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for disseri

d's use li lenitea to official proceedings 6

nel without the express approval of the FBl .

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthorized person.

UBJECT: RELATIONSHIPS WITH CIA

Reference my memorandum 3/9/70 recommending that a

letter be directed to CIA outlining the elements of intelligence

and counterintelligence work affecting the United States.

Purpose of this letter is to protect Bureau by giving. CIA a .:

chance to make any comments it may have concerning current

use.of sources and facilities affecting both Bureau and CIA.

Director instructed "Prepare same and let me see it."

We have prepared letter to CIA Director Helms in

line with the foregoing. Letter cites agreement or so-called

"ground rules" iron in hotween. Bureau and ClA in January, 1966,

with regard to coordination of FBI-CIA efforts in collection

of positive intelligence in the United States. At that time

Vice Admiral Raborn was head of CIA and we are enclosinga

copy of the 1966 agreement for Mr. Helms' attention.

In letter we have also pointed out the Bureau's

primary responsibility concerning internal security of the

United States and for conducting counterintelligence operations

here. We have noted that while the Bureau has no statutory

responsibilities concerning collection of foreign intelligence,

we have made a concerted effort to obtain positive intelligence

of value to other U.S. agencies and policy-making officials

and have regularly furnished the product to CIA and other

interested agencies. Letter invites any observations Mr. Helms

may desire to make after reviewing this matter, including the

1966 agreement.

A copy of the 1966 "ground rules" between CIA and the

Bureau is. attached to this memorandum for the Director's

Information.

If the Director approves, the attached letter

should go forward.

ta. Heing

1.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 132

---

## Page 133

ry 19,

1966

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ACENCY

OPERATIOWS IN THE UNITED STATES

(1) CIA will not initiate an investigation of any

foreign official in the United States without the concurrence

and coordination of the FBI.

In this contezt, the ters

"investigation" neans systematic and direct inquiries or

procedures (such as pbysical or technical surveillances

or neighborhood inquiries) aining at developing information

concerning an individual's activities or background;

"investigation" does not include the acceptance or the

development of information through social contacts or

those so ca

contacts normally made by CIA agents in discharging their

cover functions.

(2) CIA will sees concurrence and coordination

of the FBI before approaching for recruitment any foreign.

official or communist nloc visitor in the United States.

The FBI rill concur and coc-dinate if the proposed action

does not conflict witn any operation, current oo planned.

including active investigation of the

FEI.

(3) CIA will advise the FBI prior to any planned

meeting between a CIA asset and a foreign oificial or

communist-bloc visitor of known or presumed interest to

"the FBI (this moulá include all communist-gloc officials

and visitors) for purposes of assessment and social

development.

(4) Clandestine CIA staff operatives, domestic

American agents of CIA, and foreign agents of CIA recruited

abroad tho come to the United States will be identified to

the FBI by none or appropriate description depending on

the

national security interest involved.

(5)

Pursuant to paragraph 1 above, when a CIA

agent arrives

• in the United States for a visit or for an

assignment, the Burcau vill be advised and the two agencies

will confer regarding the handling of the agent in the United

states.

It is recognized. that each case will have its

(Individual peculiarities.

The governing principle sill

be positive intelligence interest as weighed against interra-

Thie doement i peppared in responsi to your request and is not for dissen

nation outside your committee.

Its use is limited to officin muccedinos id

vour Committee and the content may not be disclosed to uncuthorized persure

rel without the express approval of the fBI.

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 133

---

## Page 134

CENTRAL INTELLIGINCE AGENCY

OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES

security factors. CIA will continue its contractual. rela-

tionship ior the purpose of handling the training,

the

procurerent of cositive foreign intellifence, the

fulfillner:

of CIA commitments to the agent, and the preparation of the

agent for his next assignment abroad.

(6)

In those cases where CIA will be handling

Its agent in the United States, CIA will service FBI securit?

or counterintelligence requirements and will provide the FBI

all agent information bearing or counterintelligence or

internal security matters, including the scope and nature

of the agent's access to information and the identities of

the agent's significant contacts, particularly in the

communist-bloc field. In such cases

where CIA servicing

has been inadequate to FBI internal security interests,

the fBI will have direct access to the agent.

...

• ':.:

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 134

---

## Page 135

, SEGRET

March 11, 1970

Honorable Richard Helms.

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Helms:

As I am sure you will agree, the need for close

coordination of the intelligence-gathering ans counter-

Intelligence efforts of the fBi and the Centrál Intelligence

Agency (CIA) is self-evident. This matter is one which

requires a continuing analysis to assure that both agencies

have established working agreements whereby we can most

effectively realize positive results with a minimum of

duplication, misplaced effort, and jurisdictional problems.

During January, 1966, representatives of this

Bureau met with officials of the CIA to consider coordina-

tion of our mutual efforts in the collection of positive

Intelligence in the United States. Ag a result of these

conferences, a set of ground rules was drawn up and agreed

to by both agencies. A copy of this agreement was transmitted

In my letter of February 7, 1966, to then CIA Director

Vice Admiral William F. Reborn, Jr. A copy of the agreement

is enclosed for your information. This agreement has proven

generally effective and no major problems have been

encountered since

Its adoption in the areas it covers.

&.. The FBI has primary responsibility with regard to

matters involving the internal security of the United States

as well as for conducting counterintelligence operations in

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

• NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 135

---

## Page 136

(SEGNET

this country. While this Bureau does not have any statutory

responsibilities with regard to the collection of foreign

Intelligence, I have always recognized that the potential

for the development of such intelligence in this country 1s

considerable. The FBI has, in fact, made a concerted effort

to obtain positive intelligence of value to other U. S.

: Intelligence agencies, Including the CIA, and policy-making

officials of the Government. While these efforts,have,

of course, been incidental to our main Internal security

and counterintelligence responsibilities, we have on a

selective basis developed sources, both live and technical,

providing coverage at key foreign establishments in the

United States. The product of this coverage has been furnished

on & regular basis to the CIA and other interested agencies

and officials uf the Guverineni.

I know that you will share my belief that this

matter requires a periodic reexamination to assure that the

national security interests continue,to be served in the

most effective and complete manner possible. After reviering

this matter, including the attached 1966 agreement, I-would

welcome any observations you may desire to make.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

NW 65360 Docld:32989718 Page 136

---

