# docid-32334871

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90118-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-2850-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/09/1960

11

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

NICK CASCIO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

- . -

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

V9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32334871 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

port Fori--

ID-293 (5-12- 5)

Reporting Office

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

NICK CASCIO

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

DALLAS

Date

9/9/60

Investigative Period

12/4/57-9/6/60

Report made by

SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

gW

REFERENCES

Bureau airtel, 8/25/60, to Albany, captioned "Criminal Intelligence

Program, Dissemination

to Department of Information on Racketeers."

-P-

LEADS

DALLAS DIVISION:

AT DALLAS, TEXAS:

Will maintain contact with informants and local

authorities regarding CASCIO's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Approved

Copies made:

Lann

Special Agent

In Charge

Bureau (92-2850)

2 - Dallas (92-35)

Get lin 15 9/19/6

16C474

IC destroyed

1-18-64

Do not write in spaces below

9217850-38

REG 72

15 SEP IR

1960

FInD

2?. 1960

CRIM IN

PAULSECT

"2/23/2

FoR ASC

Property of FBI - This report is looned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor

its contents are to be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 O344750

NW 68262 Docld:32334871 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-35

I-L IS FRANCES MILLER, a PCI of the Dallas Office, who

has furnished reliable information in the past and is a close

friend of NICK CASCIO.

T-IA 1S CHARLES LINDSEX, attorney and partner with

CLYDE MAYS.

MR. LINDSLEY is a former AUSA in Fort Worth and has

furnished reliable information in the past.

T-2 1S FLOYD E. VINCENT, a former PCI of the Dallas

Office, who has furnished reliable information in the past.

(VINCENT was killed 3/22/59.)

T-3 is DL-91-C

whose identity is known to the Bureau,

and who has furnished reliable information in the past.

I-4 1s DL-121-C

and who has burn shed eline to in me a the Bureau,

T-5 is ELIZABETH YOUNG, a PCI of the Dallas Office,

who has furnished reliable information in the past.

T-6 1s DL-95-C

whose identity is known to the Bureau,

and who has furnished reliable information in the past.

I-7 1s MANNING O 'NEAL BENNETT, a PCI of the Dallas

Office, who has furnished reliable information in the past.

T-8 is RED BANKSTON,

a PCI of the Dallas office, who

has furnished

reliable information in the past.

I'-9 Is HORACE CLAYTON FOWLER, a PCI of the Dallas Office,

who has furnished reliable information in the past.

T-10 1s PAUL DAVE KIRKPATRICK, JR., a PCI of the Dallas

Office, who has furnished reliable information in the past.

T-I1 1s W. O. BANKSTON, a PCI of the Dallas Office,

who has furnished reliable information in the past.

I-12 Is FRANK EDWARD LOBIANCO, a PCI of the dadlas Office,

who has furnished reliable information in the past.

T-13 is DL-86-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau,

and who has furnished reliable information in the past.

-B=-

Cover Page

NW 68262 Docld:32334871 Page 3

---

