# docid-34531203

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

07/22/96

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10005

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W - PAGES

959-960

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]

TO :

TITLE : AGENT REPORT

DATE

: 01/24/68

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

DEFECTOR

GRIGGS, KENNETH C.

I RESTRICTED ]

INTERVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 3

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : PAGES 959-960 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

EXHIBITS

I THRU IV

INDEXED SEPARATELY.

ON 22 SEP 94.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64954 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34531203 Page 1

---

## Page 2

AGENT REPORT

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17) |

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

GRIGGS, Kenneth C.

FIC, RA 19 772 378°

(C)

DPOB: 25 December 1946, Korea

A. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. DATE SUBMITTED

24 January 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8008-9182 SSANUEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

On 23 January 1960, Mr. Cecil Lo Grisss, retired dairyman, residing

at 2615 North 30th Street, Boise, Idaho, was interviewed at his home conceming

letters received in reference to

his adopted son, Kenneth C. GRIGGS, and

stated substantially as follows:

- Source stated that he had received two letters concerning SUEJECT

a Philip LaChapelle JI, 1724 North Linder, Chicago, Illinois, who claimed

to have been the Security and Intelligence clerk with the 191st Ordinance

Battalion, Vietnam, but was presently out of the US Army. LaChapelle, in his

first letter dated & November 1967, indicated to Source that being SUBJECT's

closest friend in Vietnam, he felt

that he should write to Source giving some

history and facts concerning the period prior to SUBJECT's defection. LaChapell!

AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.

BY CDR UJ-I

-SOCki F01/PO

SCASTED

inficated sympathy and concern over SUBJECT's defection. LaChapelle stated that #

he believed the Army had. suppressed infomation to cover up mistakes. LaChapell

told Source about SUBJECT being beaten and shunnid by HIS companions during HIS

assignment with the 19lst Ordinance Battalion an. that he was SUbJECI's only

LaChapelle stated that he had also writien to SUBJECI, but had received

no answer.

Copy of letter written by LaChapelle dated 8 November 196% is

attached

as EXHIBIT I

• On 16 November 1967, Source answered

the letter of

8 November 1967 thanking LaChapelle for the communication.

Source incicated

that he had very little knowledge of SUBJECT's philosophy or plans and reauested

further information from LaChapelle since he was apparently more knowledgeable

conceming these aspects.

Source asked four specific questions of LaChapelle.

First asking about SUBJECT's view of the world,

as known by LaChapelle.

Secondly

asking LaChapelle's view on why SUBJICT felt that HIS conscience dictated decision

a solution to any problems that HE envisioned. Thirdly was SUBJNCT encouraged

by a third party to defect and the last nuestion was whether SUBJECT's defection was

motivated by resentment about HIS treatment by other Army personnel. Source

indicated that LaChapelle's tone in his letter indicated a certain feeling of

bitterness about the way the incident was handled by the US Army. Source recuested

a reply because the information would be of interest to Source.

Copy of letter

by Source dated 16 November 1967 is attached as EXHIBIT

arain vote to source on 20 lovember 1967, indicating underest in the letuer

written by Source on 16 November 1967. LaChapelle stated that he was bitter

because the Army took no remedial action concerning the mental state of SUBJECT,

and indicated to Source that SUBJECT had a medical history of emotional

cisturbance. LaChapelle stated that he had been the Security and Intelligence

Clerk, 191st Ordinance Battalion, Vietnam, and SUBJECT's personnel records

had passed over his desk after the defection.

LaChapelle indicated that the

records had been classified to conceal any embarrassing incidents.

LaChapelle

commented on the National Security in reference to the classification of SUBJECT's

records. LaChapelle indicated that SUBJICT's view of the world was that HE

was simply bitter and thought it was going in the wrong direction.

LaChapelle

959

(continued)

3. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT MEAT

FLOYD tO BEERY, 115th MiL

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NOT AUTOMATE

Hovel l. Beery

A. 1

REPLACES WD

100 FORM 341, DON AZ WHICH MAY BE USED IN A

NW 64954 Docld:34531203 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Part t xe,

i VAGENT REPORT

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17) 1

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

GRIGGS, Kenneth Co

PFOg Fix 19 772 378

DPOB: 25 December 1946, Korea

2. DATE SUBMITTED

24 January 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMPER

8008-9182 SSAN JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

A. REPORT OF FINDINGS

stated that SUBJECI favored an absolute state of control as long as HE was one

of the ruling class. LaChapelle stated that SUEJECI's defection was the truest

decision HE could make thus making the only solution HIS conscience dictated.

LaChapelle stated that SUBJECT was not encouraged by a third party to defect except

maybe the world around HIM. LaChapelle stated that only three people other than

himself who were in any way friendly were Chaplain Camp, presently in Germany,

Hal Nelson, and John Klink.

They would not encourage a defection. SUBJECTwuld

not let HIMSELF be influenced by others.

LaChapelle went on saying that SUBJECT's

defection was motivated by his resentment of his treatment by other personner,

Indicating that hE had been beaten and reouired stitches in HIS head on one

occasion and that HE was considered different by HIS section leaders. SUBJECT

had mentioned

defection to LaChapelle, but LaChapelle had talked HIM out of

At that point in their relationship, the friendship between LaChapelle and

SUBJECT seemed to decline.

LaChapelle blames the Army and society for forcing

SUBJECT to defect. LaChapelle reauested any information or photographs of

SUBJECT because LaChapelle intends to be a writer anc wants to write about

SUBJECT and HIS problems. A copy of letter dated 20 vovember 1967, written by

LaChapelle is attached as EXHIBIT IL:

On 24 Noveinber 1967, Source answered

the letter of 20 Novenber 1967, stating that at first he was apprehensive and

wondered how much LaChapelle was involved with SUBJECT.

Source commented that he

could offer very little concerning SUBJLCT for LaChapelle to use in his writing.

Source stated that SUBJECT's mental problems started before His entry into the

US Army and that LaChapelle should take a more kindly view of the people who

comprise society. Source gave LaChapelle a short history of SUBJECT from the

time HE came to the United States in 1950 to the time HE was placed in the :

During this period, subJECt would not stay with any one

thing for very long, such as scouts, sports, and phys cal activities.

became angry very easily. SUBJECT was intelligent in school. From the time

HE was placed in the Childrens Home unüil HE entered the US Army, SUBJECT

had a history of running away and was never satisfied being in the same place for

very long. SUBJECT finished high school and entered the military service.

Source stated his desire to agan hear from Lacnapelle.

A copy of letter dated

24 November 1967, written by Source is attached as EXHIBIT IY

BY CDR UJ-1

ON

Source stated that he had not received any other correspondence

concering SUBJECT. Neither Source nor his family have heard from SUBJECT or

any official of the Cuban Embassy in Japan.

Source further stated that he had

no information concerning SUBJDUT's present whereabouts or HIS future plans.

Source stated that he would advise this office in the event he received other

letiers or information pertaining to SUbJECT.

AGENT'S NOTES: Source was very cooperative.

He had original letters

written by Lachapelle and carbon copies of his replies, which source allowed this

office to copy

960

S. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

FLOYD is DREI, 115 th

MIDONOUS (DV)

DA

HonD & Seery

FORM

• 1 APR 52 SS&

4. 1

REPLACES WO AGO FORM PAL. JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

P-PUNCLASSIFIED

NW 64954 Docld:34531203 Page 3

---

