# docid-32336918

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90135-10313

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-130

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/24/1961

PAGES:

61

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION: Steret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:Nw

58252 Date: 09.22-2022

9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SA

105-2118

one copy of this report is boing furnished the

Legal Attache

the tenchest of those offices in this matter. (flu)

st Madrid and paris for information in view

SAN ANTONIO:

AT NC ALLEN

145:

Will maintain contact with officials at INS

Alien Detention Facility relative to the subject, and his

status.

INFORMANTS

Careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed

and

"T"symbols utilized only in instances

where identity of

source must be concesled

Identity of Source

FiLe Where Located

SA T-1:

CAMILO PADREDA VASQUEZ,

who furnished the

information to the

Legal Attache,

Madrid,

per letter 7/29/60, from

Legal Attache, Madrid,

to the Bureau. See report

of SA THOMAS H. ERRION,

11/3/60, at Miami, captioned,

"CHANGED: ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO,

aka, Kiko Pernas,

IS - CUBA.

105-2118-51

SA

T-2:

JULIEN VERNIMMEN, Belgian

captioned, "ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO, aka, IS = CUBA."

105-2118-51

-55

-61.

COVER

• PAGE

SECRET

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

SA: 105-4218

Identity of Source

SA TS:

MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ

RAMOS,

PSI of the

York office.

New

SA 1-4:

FRANCISCO JAVIER

SANTA CLARA PACHECO Y

KEVERY,

pst of the

New York Office

CONFIDEATIAL

File Where Located

105-2118-43.

105-2118-54

105-2118-78

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that

the investigative period is

lengthy; however,

the Bureau and Office of Origin have been

kept up to date on the status of this investigation through

use o1 referenced communications.

Translation of the article which appeared in

LEANER SCRORE A DIVO

Two additional copies

of this report are being

furnished the Bureau for transmittal to Legat,

Paris

and Madrid.

CLASSIFICATION

This report is classified "Secret" inasmuch ase" /

it contains information

STom CLASSA 1D), which was so

classified. It is notes chat this report also contains

(и)

information furnished by MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ RAMOS

(SA T-3). New York letter to Director, 2/14/61, captioned,

"ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - CUBA, "

contains instructions that any report containing information

furnished by SANCHEZ RAMOS should be classified "Secret."

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 3

---

## Page 4

spar

MULEY in care of ARTURO G. MATA, Poste Restante Central

Lieges,

Belgium. He stated that when he was about ready to

leave Madrid, Spain, he sent a telegran to the above mentioned

address, and addressed it to ARTURO G. MATA.

He stated he

did not know recall the contents of this telegram,

but that

he was certain that he did not state that he was leaving

Spain with instructions for MATA:

On arriving in Brussels,

Belgiun, GUTIERREZ attempted to locate both MATA and MULEY

through

the Cuban Embassy located in Brussels, but was un-

successful as no one there appeared to know either of these

individuals.

then sent MATA & second telesram

to the same address in Lieges, Belgium, but received no

response

The Cuban Ambassador to Belgium then personally

drove him to lieges, Belgiun, and the two of them managed

to locate MATA through inquiry in a bar in the Spanish

colony in Leges.

GUTIERREZ stated that after he met

MATA,

the latter introduced him to ADDERRAMAN MULEY, and

he admitted that the threed them

present

him that they were actively engaged in fighting against

FRANCISCO FRANCO.

GUTIERREZ stated that both ADDERRAMAN

MOLEY

and ARTURO G. MATA were members of the Directorio

Revolucionario Iberico de Liberacion

(DRIL), and that he

believed ADDERRAVAN MULEY was one of the directors of

DRIL.

GUTIIREZ said he had no prior knowledge of

ARTURO G.

MATA,

Cuba,

and did not know if he had ever been

in

or whether he had any

connections with the present

FOGINE OT FIDEL CASTRO. R/U

SA T-2, & Confidential Source Abroad, advised on

December 28,

reported

the organization known as DrIl, and that

he reportedly was sent to Belgium for the purpose of organiz-

ing the Liege Branch of this organization, and that he had

come to Belgium # find out as much as possible about DRIL

and its real value as a movement capable of overthrowing

the FRANCO government in Spain.

SA T-2 further advised

that GUTIERREZ MENOYO arrived in Belgium by air fron Madrid

on July 21, 1960, and that since

he had entered Belgium

clandestinely, and since his presence was considered to be

dangerous for

• the public welfare, GUTIERREZ MENOYO was

the object of an explusion order

issued on August 10, 1960. (5)

2 3

SEGREP

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECKET,

SA T-2

advised that

GUTIERREZ MENOYO had been arrested on

August 6,

1960,

that after the issuance of the explusion

order,

he was released on

August 11, 1960, and left Belgium

by air

for paris, France,

BOVISed tHAT an InCLUIdUaL DAMed GONZALEZ ARTURO MATA LLEDO,

OT ARTURO GONZALEZMATA LILDO, & Spanish national, also

associated with DRILy

was arrested on the same day as

Belgiumi

GUTIERREZ" MENOYO, and was expelled fron

Belgium on August 18,

1960.

Continuing the interview, GUTIERREZ MENOVO stated

that be remained in lleges, Belgiun, for about three day."ia

visiting with individuals who lived in the spanish colony

that city, when he was euddenly arrested,

placed in jaid,

and threatened with & return to Spain.

He said he is certain

that the FRANCO government in Spain put pressure on the span-

ish Embassy in Brussels, Belgium, to have Belgium police

arrest him, and place hin in jail.

He said that after about

three days the government of Cuba lodged an informal com

plaint with Belgiun, and arrangenents were then made to

expel him fron the

country. GUTIErrEZ said he signed the

explusion order, but did so

under protest, claiming that

the arrest had

been illegal and that his incarceration was

therefore without grounds.

GUTIERREZ

to Paris,

France, and remained in Paris about

15 days, during

which time he lived at the home of a mn named ALVAREZ, whom

he described as an employee of the cuban embassy in Paris.

He said that

during this time

he visited the

Spanish President-

10-X110,8 H60

named HERRERA, who lives in Paris.

He stated

that wher

vacation in Paris was nearly completed, he

attempted to arrange for a return to Cuba by way of the United

States,

but could not do so, and finally obtained airlines

tickets for a return flight by way of Liebon, Portugal,

Maria in the Azores, and from there to Cuba.

He said he

spent six days in Santa Maris, the Azores, waiting for the

Madrid-Havana plane.

While there, he stated that Portuguese

authorities examined him very closely, which was undoubtedly

performed

Spain.

at the instigation of the FRANCO government in

GUTIERREZ, in Commenting on his European trip,

stated that the trip

had no intelligence nor espionage

aspects or significance and that he had made the trip all

24

C-CRET

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRETA

SA 105-2118

was recently overheard to remark that GUTIERRE USNOYO was

now living

in Miami, Florida, and that he was a dedicated

cornunist who lately was

supposed to have fallen in dis-

diavor with CASTRO which caused him to leave Cuba.

SA T-5

another

Government agency that conducts

intelligence investigations,

advised that s source who had

not beer ovaluated, had advised that leaders of underground

nEil-CASTRO scorps in Cube were shooked on hearing of the

1a2t10 027402 Y

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, and & group ot

"ol their arrival in the United States

Many Or these Loeders

considered CurInate to be an Agent

Provocatess; mad vore reportod as having reason to believe

That twO ox GUrIBARIZ®

conpanions,

ANGEL BANOS, and "KIKO"

PIC NAS

were actually Cuoan intelligence agents.

Source

said representatives of anti-CASTRO groups in the United

States have been adviso

not to trust GuTImist or any

member of his group.

SA T-2,

mentioned previously as having furnished

information concerning GUTIERREZ' connections with the

organization known as DRIL (Directorio Revolucionario

Iberico de Liberacion) (revolutionary Iberian Directorate

of Liberation), also furnished the following additional

information corceming the DRIL and ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO: (5)

According to SA I known active members of the

DRiL Included:

the "Madrid

Liege,

Belgium

2. JASOMINGO (ANTONIO),

MORE DOORR

MAN)

Lives in Liege,

..Be

4

BENA (MAX IMO),

& Liege

architect.

& Spaniard, employed at

Belie

Lessee of the "Madrid Bar."

2447

WLEY

-49-

(5)

Belgium

SECREP

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Defensi

SA 106-2318

-SECRET

for DRIL.

5

5 JARATA, (JUAN), 20/01-

XANTORO (GUILLERMO), lives in

Germany

* XAQUILINO, no /oC-

(ROTOUTE (STA) Brought fund zoom

Bilguins

Venezuela

(VRIO (JOSE, & resident of Venezuela.

1O

JUSTE (ALONZO). 1eO/OC

As previously noted by SA T-E, ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

arrested on August 6, 1960,

in Belgium,

at which time ho

the compony of the following individuals:

ROJO-RUIZ

2

MULE

MCRE (ABDEPRAVAN) De Curi

3.

GONZALEZ-MATA-LIEDO (ARTUROSY

MARINANOVOA- (REYES )el a Marioro

- Belgun

In

possession of roJo-ruiz were

the following

items:

An automatic gun with loader and cartridges;

A loaded stick;

A fired stick;

A firing

device, without the detonator and

explosive charge;

Four copies of & complete sabotage handbook,

in Spanish, with sketches of mby explosive contrivances,

among them & booby trap book with

directions regarding their

use •

€57

15

(5)

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SA

205-1118

SECREF

In possession of MULEY-MORE, were the following

stems:

A revolver with cartridges;

A Loaded stick.

According to: 3A

Tessa,

all of the persons in the

organizarlos kaown te balt are referred to under the

pseudo-

an or the firat hone under which they operate as sgents

the

DRIL:

These axe:

124°

1S MUS NAS (ARDERRAMAN),

X"RAFAEL VARIA" IS ROJO-RUIZ (RAFAEL-MARIA);

*"JUANJO" iS GONZALEZ-MATA-LLEDO (ARTURO) ;

PELOY". IS GUTIERREZ-MENOYO (ELOY)

"WARINO" IS MARIN-NOVOA, REYES;

"MIRKO" IS SANTORO (GUILLERMO) ;

"JUSTIN" IS ALVAREZ

-MONTERO (JUSTINO);

X"GUSTAVO IS MARTINE) DONOSO (SANTIAGO) BALTiL

'JOSE-MARIA"? 1S

RODRIGUEZ (JOSE-MARIA).

SA T-2

also advised that MARTINEZ-DONOSO (SANTIAGO),

born January t, 1940,

Madrid, Spain, who was & Cuban national,

was in Madrid from approximately April to June, 1960; that

MARTINEZ was an agent of DRIL; that MARTINEZ® cousin

had

been shot following bombings in Madrid; that he had fled to

Belgium where he was in contact with DRIL representatives,

and that he returnod to Cubs in July, 1960.(57

SA T-2 said further that at the time GUTIERREZ

MENOYO was in Europe in the summer of 1960, that he was

carrying out what was referred to as the "ELOY" mission. (5)

-51-

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

SA

205-2118

GUS UNLIZ IS

rogarded as & hero of the Cuban Revolution.

For

this reasor,

FIDEL CASTRO would be inclined to entrust

to hit t

sun of

60 million pesetas which was collected by

Spaniards Liviog in Cuba,

This sum might constitute a fighting

fond for the paiL, but before

relessing that sum,

FIDEL CASTRO

1s said to hove asked "FLOy" to get information in Europe about

the DRIL and

its real elficiency ss's novement capable of over

throwing the

FRANCO

government:

"BLOy" thus was said to have

cons: 60

Belgion,

for the purpose of meeting

might have boon in a position to give him the information.

besidos; he had to consider the possibility of & transter

Gube, vid the Belgium banks, of the large anounts dossined

On April 6, 1961, ELOY GUTIERREZ VENOYO waS again

Interviowed by SAS ZACHRY ANd HAGY,

sod Isturglitation Service Alien Detention Facility,

cat aa, to tention

at the U.S. Immigration

McAllen,

Texas, concerning the information attributed to sA 1-2,

set

out directly above:

Prior to initiating the interview,

GUTIErREZ was reminded that he did not have make any state-

ment, that any statement he did make could be used against

him ins court of law, and that he had the right to lega

counsel

He stated he

understood this

and voluntarily:

furnished the following information:

He said he was not adauainted with

MAXIMO (BERNARD)

OF DOMINGUEZ (ANTONIO).

He pointed out that in a previous

interview he had advised that in attempting to locate

ARTURO G. MATA in Belgium,

that he and the Cuban Ambassador

to Belgium had

• gone

to Llege, Belgium,

where they managed

to locate MATA through inquiry in & bar' in the Spanish colony

in Liege.

GUTIERREZ SAid it is entirely possible that MAXIMO

and DOMINGUEZ were

persons at this bar who assisted them

in locating MATA.

Concerning

ABDERE AVAT MULEY,

GUTIFRREZ said he was

certain that this worson

was loentical with the ADDERRAMAN

MULEY mentioned by him in & previous interview as one of

the director of to

GUTIERREZ Said MULEY,

who 21so

of those arrested with him

- 52-

xut)

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 9

---

## Page 10

C

Sa. 105-2118

•ST€

RET

Liege,

Belgian,

August 6, 1960.

MULEY was later freed

by Belgian authorities and returned to Cuba, GUTIERREZ saW

and talked with

wussy an cuba, and believes that ho still

lares in Cuba:

GUTIERREZ said he vaguely recalled that MULEY

nasd the nick sane of "PSPE."

He said MULSY told bim that the

11N066 p01

tried to kill him, but did not

say when

os where. (X)B43

2SNA

(MAXIMO), GUTIERREZ said he had been

Ingroducod to a porson or this

with

PANA

1on0e21206

(JUAND 3

SANTORO (GUILLERIO);

AQUILINO

Gutters, said he knew no, one by

4] Chough he had heard MULEY speak of

& MIRKO."/

*(K)

1(S)

ROJO-RUIZ (MARIA),

GUT TERRAZ

knew

of no one by this name, but that he had met a man

# namedROJO

other names unknown, in Belsiun, through MULEY,

and that ROJO had been arrested

with him on

August 6, 1960.

He described ROJO as & Spaniard, about 40 to 45 years old.

He said he later met ROJO with MULEY in Cuba, and

Sosa hire that he was goln to venezuela la tabl XQ49

Concerning

VELO (JOSE),

GUTIERREZ said he knew of

no one by this name

but had heard ROJO mention & person

could

versation.

named VELO:/stS

recall no details concerning this con-

Concerning

: JUSTE

ALONZO), GUTIERREZ said he knew

of no one

by this name.

GUTIERREZ said the only one of the above persons

known by him to be connected with DRIL, was MULEY,

believed was one of the directors of this organization.

Concerning his arrest in Liege, Belgium,

on

August 6, 1960, GUTIERREZ ssid it was his recollection that

there were five persons srrested with him.

He said that in

addition to himself, the man named ROJO, MULEY, ARTURO G.

MATA, & man named ANTONIO, and a

youth whose name he could

-53-

-SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 10

---

## Page 11

3A

105-3128

SECRET

200

now recall,

had been

picked up by the Belgian police

and

Jailed for

several days.

The arrest,

he said,

was

bsised

on charges that

those

seized were

"undesirables"

sad they were

subaaquent ly

" expelled from Belgium.

adaistod that those strested with hin had been discussing

Spain

and the

FRANCO goveriment,

but insisted that they

had not been participating In &- DRIL

meeting.

anniston

and had never been, & member of ..

Concernins

the list of pseudonyts, which SA T-2

stated vace utilizod

By DRIL members; GUTIERRE? said he

vaguely socalled that Mutty

used-the

nick name

he had heard Mulay speak of a

"MIRKO."

"PaPE* whilo

He, himself, has

always used the nano Elor, which is & given name and not

& nick naie or

pseudonym

He said

never heard ot

any of the other names on this list. (

Concerning SAMTAGO MARTINEZ DONGSO,

GUTIERREZ

said he knew of & young man by this name,

about 20 years

old, & Cuban citizen, whose father worked for Iberia Airlines

In Havana, Cube.

FOllowing GUTIERREZ' return to Havans, from

turope; in the late summer of 1960, he was contacted by

MUlay and the man known to him as ROJO, who informed him that

MARTINEZ was & member of the DRIL, and

that following the

bombings in Madrid, Spain,

"NARTINEZ and his cousin had

been

seized by the FRANCO police and the cousin shot, that

MARTINEZ then made a dest with the FRANCO police for his

freedon in return for which he was to assassinate GUTIERREZ.

Shortly theresiter,

MARTINEZ appeared at GUTIERREZ' home

in Havana, on & pretext, whereupon GUTIERREZ confronted

MARTIN. with the information furnished by MULaY, and RoJo.

he said MArtIn't broke down and cried, but denied ever having

made any deal with the FRANCO government, stating that there

was no resson for hin to help them as they had killed his

cousin.

GUTIERREZ sid he thoroughly questioned MARTINEZ

and finally arrived at the conclusion that he was telling

the truth, and he then decided to question any further

information furnished to him by MULEY and ROJo.

GUT IERREZ

said he

had no resson to believe that MArTInEz actually

intended to kill him,

He said he knew of no other name

POX MARTINEZ, aParE trom SANTIAGO MARTINEZ DONOSO, and that (#yt9)

54-

SECRET

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 11

---

## Page 12

105-2118

"SECRET

.20

reason: to

believe that

this was not MARTINI?!

true nano. He' never saw MARTINE? alter this encounter.

Concerning the "ELOy" mission, GUTIERREZ said there

208™

absolntely no truth in the lacts slleged by Sa T-" in

thie rogard,

He said, however, that be had information that

CASTRO's government was furnishing money to the Communist

Party in spain.

No stated in this regard, that a friend,

whom ho said no did

not

wish to identify,

had actually seen

2nd

copled the contents

& letter,

dated October 20, 1960,

no Madrid, Spain;

12 Tavans,

Cabe,

directed jo RAMTRO VALDE, peed of C4D60 6-2 spain

fron MARIN

the Caban Kabassy in worid

He sara this fetter nade reterence

Thes

who was Chief

of the Departarento Tecnico

Tovestigactones del jercite

Sebalde, In Hayan,

250, 200 dollars for the

"rovolutionaries*

The

Valley Morning Star,

"morning newspaper pub-

lished daily at Harlingen,

Texas,

in its issue of April 22,

1961, contains

article captioned,

"Ex Cuban Consul Refused

Interview With 13 Nationals Held at

McAllen."

According to

the article, which is date lined &t Mcallen, Texas, RENd

DIA CHARTE,

former Cuban Corsitin Tamps. Florids,

was then

Fricklem In an attempt to obtain the release of 13 Cuban

nationals, then being held at the McAllen Facility of the

United States Immigration

and Naturalization Service.

The article noted that ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO waS one of

the lo cubans 2/a 1

whose re'ease was sought by be CHARLE.

Tenan

On April

1961, REND ORCHARD,

of Miami,

advised SA RICHARD S, CLARK thaf he was formerly Cuban Consul Teja

at Tamps for the CASTRO administration,

but has defected "

and now lives at Miant

He advised that he has just

returned from Texas where he made a trip to see about

the release from custody of ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

being detained at McAllen,

Texas, by the U.S. Border

Patrol. He advised that he has been contacted by numerous

federal authorities concerning GUTIERREZ MENOYO and has

furnished them with his views concerning

GUT IERREZ MENOYO

and wanted to go on record again as vouching that GUTIERREZ

MENOYO is sincerely anti-CASTRO, and was not a communist.

He advised that GUTIERREZ MENOYO acted as & double agent

for CASTRO in exposing « Dominican plot because TRUJILLO

-55-

SECRET

1 05-82298-130

NW 68262 Docld:32336918 Page 12

---

