JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
. . Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10287-10439

RECORD SERIES: HQ

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,NY
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

| AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-325
TITLE:

DATE: 01/03/1967
“PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
MIRR, OBA, COMMANDOS, CAPTURED, CUBA, NEWSPAPER
ACCOUNTS .
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
i DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/26/1998,

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

i COMMENTS : INC LHM

ee
v9.1
NW 68262 Docid:32305309 Page 1 23



o-

OFtroNAL FORM NO, 10 a
av ipa ear my :
‘G84 pout 43 CHD or—n1.6 my

UNITED: STATES GSVSRNMENT

“ Memorandum

eA DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474) DATE! JAN 3 1967

FROM SAC, NEW YORK (105-44795) (RUC)

SUBJECT: : /MOVIMTENTO JNSURRECCIONAL—_DE-RECUPERACION—
REVOLUCTONARTO.—
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA
NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Wy (00: NEW YORK)

ReBuairtel to New York, and Miami, dated
12/2/66, and Miami airtel with enclosure dated 12/12/66,
captioned as above.

4 Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 11
copies of a LHM dated and captioned as above.
Sources, mentioned in enclosed LHM, who
were contacted on 12/14/66 are identified as CSNY
2822-S, CSNY 4783- eae FABIO FREYRE, and ALFREDO

HERNANDEZ, who reqtiested that their identities be
kept confident1

NY T-1, mentioned in enclosed LEM, is
ANDREW ST, GEORGE, who desired that his identity be

concealed.
Att REN UN CONTAINED
=~ UNCLASSIFIED
er Bureau (Encl; of $5 By a a

12 waded YBES2055) (gnei. P sconem

03)" smed
SS)
: 4 JAN 4. 1967
Eo ou AN —
; Needed Sr Or ‘ ; BB
| ty tin i to tat ie ~~ oi
rout 7
| fare ie et Si
IS 4 3 42 2 WB avings Bonds Regularly on. on the Payroll Savings Plan
se _— oe eee .

"NW 68262 Docid:32305309 Page 2



FD-36 (Bev. 5-22-64) i

J

1

i)

1

. !
oo FBI |
Date: pee 12 1966

I

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code! I
Via -_ AIRTEL REGISTERED MAIL i
(Priority) H
WT TT Tt rr tt anna nae nnn a
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474) wappell
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (p) :

“
“SUBJECT: —MOVIMIENTO INSURRECC IONAL
DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)
IS - CUBA; .
, NEUTRALITY MATTERS ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE!
00: Miami HEREIN |S UNCLASSIFIEG,
DAT! ‘5S BYSABIA,
Re Bureau airtel to Miami andWNew, ork
12/2/66.
oy Enclosed for the Bureau are 11 copies of
LHM dated and captioned as above.
{i} Copies are being disseminated locally to

/ . the following agencies;
*

U.S. Border Patrol; U.S. Customs; U.S. Customs,
Region II; INS; U.S. Coast Guard; CIA; Office of
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Department of State,
all Miami; U.S. Customs, Key West, Fla.; N So,
Charleston, S.C.; G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.;
Robins AFB, Ga.; and USAF, » Miami Springs, Fla.;
and to FAA and Secret Se:

\ @)- Bureau (RM) (Eng Gud
1 - New Yofk (RM) (¥ne. 1)
2 - Miami/(1 — 105-2855)

qa - 105-7054) (c

= Coordsieber fr Colom Ufloris -

Copy $5 CAA Baka aig fa afi” om

fi. spe ONI/OSIZACRE Con Hi tec [0 ot2-,

ay 4»9ASGG slip for Info. . °

ib a

pe

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

¢
4
NW 68262 Docid:32305309 Page 3


MM 105-2855

MM T-1 is MM 492-8,

Cya

IM T-2 is LUIS POSADA, 2635 Southwest 28th Court,
Miami, orida, identity concealed by request.

The file on captioned case remains pending in
the Miami Office inasmuch as the MIRR is an active
organization; however, no further investigation relating
to the lost plane or the alleged infiltration at Gibara,

Cuba, is being conducted.

One copy of LHM is enclosed for New York.

NW 68262 Docid:32305309 Page 4



|
—_

RE: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

lost plane. She recalled that the registration number of
the plane contained the numerals 37 or 47.

Mrs. GUTIERREZ stated she was aware of the
recent news release by the MIRR concerning the three
members of the MIRR and Comandos L who were reportedly
captured in Oriente Province, Cuba. She stated that
although she knew several members of the MIRR and had
heard the names of others mentioned in conversation at
her house, she had never heard of the three individuals who
were reportedly captured in Oriente Province.

On December 7, 1966, MM T-1, a former Cuban
official now resident of Miami, who keeps closely informed
of news reports emanating from Cuba,- advised that Cuban
radio stations have made no mention of the capture of
three infiltraters in Oriente Province as announced by
Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH of the MIRR, He pointed out that the
Cuban radio had announced the airplane attack on the
chemical plant at Matanzas on November 13, 1966, which
mission was subsequently announced by ORLANDO BOSCH at
Miami.

,

On December 7, 1966, MM T-2, a Cuban exile at
Miami active in anti-CASTRO organizations, advised that
no one that he or his associates had spoken to seemed to
know the three individuals who were identified in the
press release by the MIRR as captured in Oriente Province.
He stated that consensus of opinion is that this press
release is a fictitious story by BOSCH or at the very least
the three names furnished by BOSCH are not correct names.

With respect to the aerial mission by the MIRR
on the chemical plant at Matanzas, on November 13, 1966,
Mr. I. I. PROBST, Lally Adjustment Bureau, Miami, Florida,
advised on November 26, 1966 that his firm was in the
process of settling an insurance claim made by the
Gateway Corporation of Jacksonville, Florida, for the loss
of a Piper Aztec aircraft, a two engine, plane, valued at

4

NW 68262 Docid:32305309 Page 5

