# docid-32329506

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90086-10163

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-7824-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: CG

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/01/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH STEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

B8262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32329506 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PD 58 IRON

5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code).

(Priority)

12/1/64

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-7824)

FROM

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-350 Sub 1)

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH STEIN

AR

"JUNE"

ReBuairtel 11/9/64, and Chicago airtel 11/23/64.

First National Mortgage Company is mortgage

brokerage business operated by JOSEPH STEIN for FELIX

"MILWAUKEE PHIL" ALDERISIO. ROBERT FERRELL is employee

of First National Mortgage Company, who is also associated

with Worldwide Mortgage Corporation, Wheeling, Illinois.

Also connected with Worldwide are the following

individuals,

all of whom are controlled by JAMES "THE BOMBER" CATUARA, a

South Suburban Cook County hoodlum who is reputed to be

second in command to hoodlum overlord FRANK LA PORTE:

BILLY DAUBER, who is identical with CG 6700-C;

GUIDO FIDANZI, con man and bad check passer from

Chicago Heights, Illinois;

GUS RUBINO, former bail bondsman, thief and

hoodlum associate;

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

I a PCI of the Chicago Division.

Bureau (AM) (RM)

Chicago

ACK : mac/rms

""!

REC 8: 92-7824-

DEG 5151

Approved:

6

Đ 10/67 n chang

Sent

_ M

Pe

NW 68262 Docld:32329506 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-350 Sub 1

On 11/24/64, CG 6788-C* advised that a meeting

was held in his presence during which ALDERISIO held a

kangaroo court concerning the activities of BOB FERRELL and

BILLY DAUBER who caused a female acquaintance of ALDERISIO

to swindle $2,000 for them on a bogus whiskey deal. CATUARA

resent at the meeting on behalf of DaUBER, his right hand

man and enforcer.

CATUARA explained that DAUBER had no

prior knowledge that female swindler was acquaintance of

ALDERISIO and that FERRELL was most at fault because female

actually FERRELL's girl friend and he got her into it.

ALDERISIO instructed FERRELL, DAUBER and CATUARA to return

the $2,000 to the female so she could return same to ultimate

victims. ALDERISIO told CATUARA he would "make it up to

him in some other way." During the course of this meeting,

it was apparent from tenure of conversation that CATUARA

is taking orders from ALDERISIO and is, therefore, of lesser

stature in the Chicago area organized crime structure than

ALDERISIO.

Also during this meeting, ALDERISIO learned from

CATARA and DAUBER that FERRELL had been receiving a 10%

cut of Worldwide Mortgage Corporation activities through

use of FERRELL'S office space at Wheeling, Illinois, where-

upon ALDERISIO became extremely provoked because FERRELL had

failed to turn over any of his 10% cut to ALDERISIO.

FERRELL

was ordered by ALDERISIO to immediately get out of the

Wheeling office and confine his activities to First National

Mortgage Company business at Chicago, Illinois.

JOE STEIN explained to ALDERISIO a deal between

himself, DAUBER, FIDANZI and the Bank of Niles, Niles,

Illinois, wherein STEIN with assistance of DAUBER and

FIDANZI, arranged with the Bank of Niles to collect a

$33,000 outstanding loan account.

DAUBER and FIDANZI

felt they had a commission coming; however, STEIN stated

this collection was not done for a fee and, therefore, no

money was coming to anyone. STEIN, in conversation with

- 2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32329506 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-350 Sub 1

DAUBER, advised DAUBER that he and FIDANZI had no fee

entailed in this collection.

ALDERISIO advised CATUARA

that some times a favor is done for a bank in order to

obligate the bank to return a favor in the future, which

is of material assistance in

the operation of a mortgage

brokerage business.

During the course of the conversation, ALDERISIO

desired to be apprised of the identity and capacity of

Jand GUS RUBINO in the mortgage brokerage field.

It is noted previous information concerns the

negotiation of a dispute between two factions of the Chicago

hoodlum element. It is further noted ALDERISIO and CATUARA

were not previously known to be closely associated, and they

operate in different sections of the Chicago area.

— JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

3

-

NW 68262 Docld:32329506 Page 4

---

