JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/28/201

"AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

FRO!

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATIO!

RESTRICTIONS :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10283-10066

HQ
92-2914-3RD NR 69, 4TH NR 69

Document Information

FBI
FORSYTH, THOMAS G. II
DIRECTOR, FBI

06/10/1960
24

GM, PERSONAL HISTORY AND BKG, RES, ASSOC, CRIMINAL
ACT, GAMBLING, B/F INT, POLIT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

05/15/1998

INDEFINITE,

INC RPT

Records Collection

992 [44 USC 2107 Note]. CasetNw

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32303054 Page 1


FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office Office of Origin Dato : Investigative Poriod
"PITTSBURGH PIPTSBuRGH 8/5/60 | 5/27-1/28/60
TILE OF CASE 2 Report siade by eens aieee Typed By?
THOMAS 0, FORSYTH, 177 ax
x
ay
Ns
= fisur on 6/7/60 (set aeetion F of this: sopent S
conducted 6, se sa temas acmben Seats’ ) ~\

ms Dee on G2 fr w Soman Seale Pade, art
ars,

ai
At Pittsburgh, Pa, (Allegheny County) a
a
1. W111 concentrate on deve iduals 2 t g
Phase of the operations of heme x organization, oe §
Approved eo ‘Agent ‘Do not write in spaces below
Copies .
CED paren aad 2414.
4S Pieter z = RECORDED
- 158 aug 9 i360

52 AUG 16 1960 -

Property of FBI - Sat ae Se

WU. ©. covennumnr PRinTiNG OFMIcE: 1958. ~ 0844750

| NW 68262 Docld:32303054 Page 2


PG 92-228
PG 92-236

2, Will follow and report activities of SAMUEL and GABRIEL
MANNARINO and their subordinates and associates.
INFORMANTS

PG T+1 is POI MADELINE MARCOUN, New Kensington, Pa.; who
furnished siiformatiGn to SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE on 6/13/60
and to SA THOMAS G, FORSYTH, III on 7/21/60, ~
PG T+2 is PG 545-C.. :

4 PG T-3. is PCI JAMES THORNTON MC CLOWRY, Springdale, Pa., who

furnished information to SA FORSYTH. on. 5, D7 60, 6/3, 1460 and
7/21528/60.
|
|
1
—BR. -
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303054 Page 3


—
Report Forni, Hest fm
FD.26045-1585) , veut af

oat we

“FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Ofico Ofice of Origin Dato Tnvestigative Period
PITTSBURGH _| BUREAU | 6/0/60 3/25/60 ~ 5/23/60
TITLE OF CASE Report made by Typed By:
THOMAS G. FORSYTH, Tit araic

CHARACTER OF CASE

SAMUEL WANNARINO, aka. ;

C@ABRIEL HANNARINO, aka. ANTI-RACKETEERING
Report of SA THOMAS. G. FORSYTH, III, Pittsburgh, 3/15/60. ON i
=*s ay
EEADS. 7
PIVtseuRaR S
At Pitts Pa. (Alle Count; x :
i

Cw
on

GER Peep Bt’,

1. Will concentrate on developing individuals elese to some
phase of the operations of the MANNARINO organization.

2. Will follow and report activities of SAMUEL and GABRIEL
MANNARINO end their subordinates and associates.

INVORMANTS.
PG f-1 fe PCI JAMES T.. MC CLOWRY, who furnished information to

‘Approved Do not write in spaces below
Copies made: mage ee i ian Gy |
& ~ Bureau : fat 41 a i f=
3 = : Sa-2818h. > e NOT: Hor ‘#licoRDED
& "pittsburgh “| 182 “Sun 46 1960
(2 - 92-828) i
(2 ~ 92-236 i a ees

FI of
BRIN 23 1960 : ,
. _ + 7 .

NW 68262 Docld:32303054 Page 4


PG 92-228
92-236

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, on 3/26/60, 4/20/60 and 5/23/60.
PG 7-2 18 PG 545-c.

PG T-3 is former POI ROBERT C. ANKNEY, who furnished information
to SA FORSYTH on 3/25/60.

PG T-4 is PCI ALFRED MAESTRO, who furnished information to
SA RICHARD DOUCE on 4/13/60,

PG 7-5 ig PCT WAUTER J, SHARKEY, who furnished information to
SA DOUCE on 4/4/60.

PG T-6 is PCI MADELINE MARCOUN, who furnished information to
SAs DOUCE and FORSYTH on 5/16/60,

- Be.
COVER PAGE

=sseeaseee paeeessceees ne

NW 68262 Docld:32303054 Page 5


PG 92-228
92-236

DETAILS:

A. PERSONAL HISTORY AND BASKGROUND
1. Residences :

On May 23, 1960, PG T~1, who has furnished reliable information
in the past, advised SA THOMAS @. FORSYTH, III, that SAMUEL
MANNARINO continues to reside at 201 Highland Avenue, New -
Kensington, Pa., and that GABRIEL NANNARINO continues to reside
at 540 Charles Avenue, New Kensington. PG T-1 pointed out that
while QABRIEL MANNARINO resides at the foregoing address, he
does not spend very much time in the New Kensington area as
compared with a few years ago.

2, Status of SAMUEL MANNARINO's Health

On May 23, 1960, PG T-1 advised that all of the information he
has received recently indicates that SAMUEL MANNARINO is
approaching the f1 stages in his battle with his abdominal
malignancy. PG T-1 said that in his estimation the next few
months will see a gradual decline in strength and ultimate
demise of MANNARINO. -

B. ASSOCIATES

it has been reported previously that six of the MANNARINO
associates were convicted and sentenced in the United States
District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, Pa.,
on February 4, 1960, in the case captioned, "STUART SUTOR, ET ALs
INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY} FEDERAL PIREARMS
Although arguments on appeal before the Third Circuit Court,
Philadelphia, Pa., have been concluded, no decision regarding

the appeal has been handed down as yet. :

1. DANIEL HANNA, aka., Speedo

On May 9, 1960, PG T-2, who has furnished reliable information

in the past, advised that SPEEDO HANNA and his 19 year old
paramour, JUDY SMITH, are sharing a second floor apartment at

731 Anderson’ Street, New Kensington. He pointed out that this
building consists of four apartments, another of which is occupied
by JOHN PONTANA, top lieutenant in the MANNARINO organization.

PO 7-2 said that JUDY SMITH's parents are frantic over her
romance with HANNA, and JUDY's father and her two brothers, not

NW 68262 Docld:32303054 Page 6
