# docid-32309682

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10300-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-31-359

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DEVLIN, JOHN PATRICK

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/28/1962

PAGES: 55

SUBJECTS :

APR, LCN, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, CRIMINAL ACT, NJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1-A

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

59262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 1

---

## Page 2

4 68

5-263 (dev. S-12-55)

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

CRIME CONDITIONS IN

NEW JERSEY

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

DATE

2/28/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/19 - 28/62

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN PATRICK DEVLIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED

ma

Tep Handlum Coverige

pr

REFERENCE

/ Bureau airtel to all offices dated 1/30/82.

-P =

ENCLOSURES

TO

BUREAU:

de

Two copies of letterhead memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants.

ADMINISTRATIVE

262

The Hudson County and Camden area sections of New

versey are not covered in this report inasmuch as they have

been the subject of recent reports.

APPROVED

COPIES MADEL

3 )Bureau

(Ine. 2)

5. Newark (92-374)

SPIN CHARGENT

T1 MIAR

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

9-3/359

REG-34

1962

EX.

-107-

REC- 43

EX-109

1 CC

Barin 06

AAG Criminal Division

DISSEMTNATION RESTRTCTED TO HISTICE DEFATTENT

PROPERTY OF Fil -The report le loaned to you by the Fel, and nakher it nor its enfent aro to be diatributed overide the agon to alien los

MA

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 2

---

## Page 3

...

NK 92-374

NK T-1

NK T-2

NK T-3

NK T-4

NK T-5

NK T-6

NK T-7

NK T-8

NK T-9

NK T-10

NK T-11

NK T-12

NK T-13

NK T-I4

NK T-15

NK T-16

NK T-17

NK T-18

NK T-19

NK T-20

NK T-21

INFORMANTS

PCI LEE DAVIS

NK 2216-C.

NK 2235-C

PCI LAWRENCE ROTHBERG

PCI FRED SCHWARZ

NK 2051-C

PCI BERNARD PINCUS

NK 2187-C

PCI MILDRED ROSE MARZELI

PCI ALBERT BLACK

PCI BUGENE MILLER, JR.

NK 2251-C*

PCI LYDIA BRANDT

PCI JAMES MC GEE

PCI ARTHUR PLOTKA

NY 1894-C

NK 2290-C

NK 2118-C

PCI FRANK MATERIO

PCI ANTHONY LA ROSA

NK 2285-C

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-374

INFORMANTS (continued)

NK T-22

NK T-23

NK. T-24

NK. T-25

NK: T-26

NK T27

NK T-28

NK T-29

NK T-30

NK :T-31

NX T-32

NK T-33

NK

T= 34

NK: T-35

NK T-36

NK T-37

NK T-38

NK. T-39

SK T-40

NK T-41

NK 14-C

PCI

ADAM KOLODZIEJ

PCI ROBERT W. CALDO

NK 2267-C

BOBERT H. KRATTIGER, 210 Grand St..

Paterson, N.J. (by request)

PCI CLEM APPROVATO

Sergeant WILLIAM CONWAY, New Brunswick,

N.J. Police Department (by request)

NK 1887-C

NK 2121-C

PCI CALVIN JAMES TWEEDY

PCI CECIL VALERIAN MURRELL

NK 1863-C

PCI MICHAEL CLETHERO

PHILIP ZWANETSKY,

6306 Lastwood St.,

Philadelphia, Pa.

(by request).

NK 2072-C

NK 2279-PC

PCI RICHARD OTTO TYSON

NK 1827- C

NK 2155-C

PCI MARGARET COLLARD

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 4

---

## Page 5

=

NK 92-374

INFORMANTS (continued)

NK T-42

NK T-43

NK T-44

NK T-45

NK T-46

NK 2182-C

NK 2145-C*

It. ARTHUR DALTON, Fort Lee, N.J. Police Department

(by request)

PCI MICHAEL RAPPISE

EDWARD GONNELL, Oak St., Keansburg, N.J.

(by request)

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I-symbols were utilized in the report only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed.

LEAD

NEWARK

N.J.: Will follow crime conditions in

New Jersey and submit report on November 15, 1962.

D*

COVER PAGE

Her 5022 Dod 205608 Pagu

---

## Page 6

NK 92-374

JPD: MAN

indirectly or through a third party to ORMAN on

activities.

their gambling

NK T-10 said that the payoff place is Luigi's

Restaurant

and that he personally has seen all of the above-

named persons gathered around a table in Luigi's Restaurant.

15

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NK 92-374

JPD: MAM

PATERSON, NEW JERSEY AREA

This area covers Passaic County, New Jersey, which

is dominated by the two major cities of Paterson and Passaic,

New Jersey.

In September, 1961, NK T-21 advised that HARRY

272 Boyle Avenue, Totowa, New Jersey, is the most important

man in gambling activities in the Paterson area.

stated

that there can be no question that SALL has political

influence of some type inasmuch as he knows from personal

experience that SALL can help a local gambler in trouble

with the law in Paterson,

happened to him. When difficulty is encountered

gamblers, SAlL is usually sought out to settle the matter

and his instructions are always rigidly followed.

He is

certain that gamblers in the Paterson area lay off bets

with SALL and

that sall undoubtedly has runners working for

him.

SALL was in September, 1961 operating fron a phone

booth in front of Hartman's Confectionary, 429 Tenth Avenue,

Pater son.

He stated this place is known as "HARRY's office"

or the "Sugar Bowl." SALL has operated undisturbed from

tea thAt has

phone booth for the past two or three years without

being troubled by the Paterson Police Department or repre

sentatives of the Passaic County Prosecutor's

Office.

Infornant

stated that he has frequently seen members of the Paterson

Police Department contact SALL at this location.

NK T-22 in December, 1961 advised that HARRY SALI

political contacts. in the faterson area. Persons who work

with sAlL in this operation are PAUL SPITZ, who booKs

numbers at Allied Freight System, 500 Market Street, East

Paterson, New Jersey, which is owned and operated by Al

ANGELICOLA and CHARLIE SCHIFFMAN,

a brother of Assistant

Passaic County Prosecutor S. RICHARD SCHIFFMAN.

Informant further advised that HARRY SALL continues

to act as peacemaker in disputes arising between Paterson

bookmakers.

16

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 7

---

## Page 8

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ED STATES DEPARTMENT

USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

February 28, 1962

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW. JERSEY

ANTI-RACKETEERING

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

NK T-l is a gambling operator.

NK T-2 is a person who has frequent contact with

prostitutes and gamblers.

NK T-3 is an ex-convict who associates with

burglars and prostitutes.

NK T-4 is & person who associates with prostitutes

and gamblers.

NK T-5 is a convicted procurer who associates with

members of the criminal element.

NK T-6 is a person who in the course of his business

has contact with bookmakers and gamblers.

NK I-T is a person familiar with criminal activities

in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-8 is a prostitute.

NK I-9 is the owner of a bar in Atlantic City, New

Jersey.

NK T-10 1s a person having intimate knowledge of

political activities in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-ll is a person who is acquainted with gambling

activities in the Pleasantville, New Jersey, area.

NK T-12 is a person who associates with known hood-

lums in the Newark, New Jersey, area.

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-13 is a prostitute.

NK T-14 is a person who associates with gamblers and

criminals in the Atlantic City area.

NK T-15 is a person who daily associates with leading

political figures in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-16 is a person familiar with Orman's activities.

NK T-17 is a person intimately familiar with the

criminal element in Atlantic City, New

Jersey.

NK T-18 is a person familiar with activities in the

better known amusement places in Atlantic City, New Jersey, who

1s acquainted with the criminal and political elements in

Atlantic City.

NK T-19 is a former Atlantic City bookie.

NK T-20 is a long time gambler in the Atlantic City,

New Jersey, area.

NK T-21 is a person who has been arrested and con-

victed on gambling charges.

NK T-22 is a person who associates with the criminal

element in Passaic and Bergen Counties, New dersey.

NK T-23 is a forner "runner" in a gambling operation

in the Paterson, New Jersey, area.

NK T-24 is a person acquainted with gamblers in the

Paterson area.

NK I-25 is a person who associates daily with

gamblers and criminals.

NK T-26 is a person who patronizes bookmakers in

the Paterson, New Jersey, area.

NK T-27 is a person who has been arrested for passing

worthless checks and who consorts with hoodlums in the Plain-

field, New Jersey, area.

NK I-28 is a person who is familiar with law en-

forcement activities in the New Brunswick, New Jersey, area.

2

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-29 is a cab driver in the Perth Amboy, New

Jersey, area.

NK T-30 is a former police officer.

NK T-31 is a person who has knowledge of gambling

activity in the North Newark area.

NK T-32 is a person who knows some gamblers in

the Red Bank, New Jersey, area.

NK T-33 is a person familiar with gambling activities

in Burlington and Mercer Counties, New Jersey.

NK T-34 is a

bookmaker.

NK T-35 is a person who is acquainted with a

gambler.

NK T-36 is a bartender who knows many gamblers in

the Newark area.

NK T-37 is a person who has known many leading

hoodlums in the Newark area.

• NK T-38 is a member of a gambling operation.

NK T-39 is a person who is acquainted with criminal

activities on the north side of Newark; New Jersey.

NK T-40 is an ex-convict who associates with

criminals in the Newark area.

NK T-41 is a person who is familiar with some of

the activities of Anthony Caponigro.

NK T-42 is a person who has many friends among.

the criminal element ir Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-43 1s

a person associated with Newark, New

Jersey, area hoodlums.

NK T-44 is

a person who is familiar with law en-

forcement activities in the Bergen County area.

NK T-45 is a convicted bootlegger who knows many

hoodlums in Bergen County area.

NK T-46 is a self-admitted bookmaker.

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 10*

3

---

## Page 11

U

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newarks, New Jersey

February 28, 1962

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference report of Special Agent John Patrick

Devlin dated February 28, 1962 at Newarks.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

NK T-l'is a gambling operator.

NK T-2 is a person who has frequent contact with

prostitutes and gamblers.

NK T-3 is an ex-convict who associates with

burglars and prostitatos.

NK T-4 19 & PerSOR

issociates with prostitutes

and gamblers.

NK T-5 is a convicted procurer who associates with

menbers of the criminal element.

NK T-6 is a person who in the course of his business

has contact with bookmakers and gamblers.

NK T-7 is a person familiar with criminal activities

in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-8 is a prostitute.

NK T-9 is the owner of a bar in Atlantic City, New

Jersey.

NK I-10 is a person having intimate knowledge of

political activities in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-ll is a person who is acquainted with gambling

Ictivities in the Pleasantville, New Jersey, area.

NK T-12 is a person who associates with known hood-

ums in the Newark, New Jersey, area.

MMY 0i262 Docld:32309682 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK. T-13 is a prostitute.

NK T-14 is a person who associates with gamblers and

criminals in the Atlantic City area.

NK T-15 is a person who daily associates with leading

political figures in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK T-16 is a person familiar with Orman's activities.

NK T-17 is a person intimately familiar with the

criminal element in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

NK I-18 is a person familiar with activities in the

better known amusement places in Atlantic City, New Jersey, who

is acquainted with the criminal and political elements in

Atlantic City.

NK T-19 is a former Atlantic City bookie.

NK T-20 is a long time gambler in the Atlantic City,

New. Jersey, area.

NK T-2] is a person who has been arrested and con-

victed on gambling charges.

NK I-22 is a person who associates with the criminal

element in Passaic and Bergen Counties, New Jersey.

NK T-23 is a former "runner" in a gambling operation

in the Paterson, New Jersey, area.

NK T-24 is a person acquainted with gamblers in the

Paterson area.

NK T-25 is a person who associates daily with

gamblers and criminals.

NK T-26 is a person who patronizes bookmakers in

the Paterson, New Jersey, area.

NX T-27 is a person who has been arrested for passing

worthless checks and who consorts with hoodlans in the Plain-

field, New Jersey, area.

NK T-28 is a person who is familiar with law en-

forcement activities in the New Brunswick, New Jersey, area.

NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 12

---

## Page 13

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-29 is a cab driver in the Perth Amboy, New

Jersey, area..

NK T-30 is a former police officer.

NK I-31 is a person who has knowledge of gambling

activity in the North Newark area.

NK T-32 is a person who knows some gamblers in

the Red Bank, New Jersey, area.

NK T-33 is a person familiar with gambling activities.

in Burlington and Mercer Counties, New Jersey.

NK T-34 is a bookmaker.

NK T-35 is a person who is acquainted with a

gambler..

NK I-36 is a bartender who knows many gamblers in

the Newark area.

NK T-37 is a person who has known many leading

hoodlums in the Newark area.

NK T-38 is a member of a gambling operation.

NK T-39 is a person who is acquainted with criminal

activities on the north side of Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-40 is an ex-convict who associates with

criminals in the Newark area.

NK T-41 is a person who is familiar with some of

the activities of Anthony Caponigro.

NK I-42 is a person who has many friends among

the criminal element in Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-43 is a person associated with Newark, New

Jersey, area hoodlums.

NK T-44 is à person who is familiar with law en-

forcement activities in the Bergen County area.

NK T-45 is a convicted bootlegger who knows many

hoodlums in Bergen County area.

NK T-46 is a self-admitted bookmaker.

1 NW 68262 Docld:32309682 Page 13

3

---

