# docid-32335673

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NV

64578 Date: 12-14-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10064

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1280-63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/27/1964

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1.

NW 64578 Docld:32335673 Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

FD-?o (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via -

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

RE:

AIR MAIL.

FBI

Date: 2/27/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

057т.91

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261)

SAC, DENVER (62-1494) (P)

"MINUTEMEN" (MM)

INFORMATION CONCERNING

INTERNAL SECURITY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

00: KC

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1484 BY SP&BIO

ReBuairtel 2/24/64; report of SA JOSEPH C. LEARNED, 2N, 326

Denver, 2/14/64; Denver airtel 2/20/64 enclosing recent

material received Ie MM organization.

ReBuairtel requested Denver to advise the basis

for opening individual cases on IMELDA L. EUTENEUER,

PHILLIP PETARS, and CHARLES E. WALKER.

Purposes of the investigation of these three

individuals are twofold:

-

(1) To determine their dangerousness either

separately or in conspiracy with other members of MM, and

(2) to determine whether they are violating any

laws of the U.S., or laws of the states in connection with

their activities either individually or in conspiracy with

other members of MM.

Bureau (Encl. 2) (RM)

Dallas (Info.) (PM) di

2- Kansas City (RM)

1- Los Angeles (Info.) (RM)

1- Mobile (Info.) (RM)

1- Philadelphia (Info.) (RM)

2- Denver (62-1494)

JCL:mdd (11)

Approved:

105-1280-63

-1622

Wickl

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 64578 Docld:32335673 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DN 62-1494

In the case of EUTENEUER we learn that she is

probably the author of a letter, which is enlisting the

support of individuals for the MM organization. The last

two paragraphs of this letter are indicative of her

dedication to the aims and purposes of MM:

"As "we the people'

have no recourse through the

courts of the land, a national committee has been established

to conduct citizen's trials of the traitors responsible for

our situation.

"It is one of the responsibilities of this

organization to bring these traitors to justice. With

your help, our task will be easier. As America needs the

strength of all her patriots in the critical days ahead, I

hope to hear from you at your first opportunity."

In the case of WALKER. He was interviewed in

connection with the JOHN ROBERT HARRELL - FUGITIVE case,

(Bufile 42-157640). WALKER at first withheld information

from Bureau Agents and on second interview admitted that he

drove HARRELL and was with HARRELL in January, 1963. WALKER

could possibly be one of the leaders of MM in Denver area.

We feel that these three individuals should be

investigated to determine their dangerousness, and whether

they have violated or would violate any laws of U.S. Although

these individuals and the MM organization cannot be

categorized as followers of Comminist or SWP philosophy,

consideration should be given to their published aims and

objectives inimical to the welfare of the U.S.

However, in accordance with Bureau suggestions,

investigations of these three individuals under separate

case files will be discontimed.

Report of SA LEARNED should be classified "Con-

fidential."

PATRICK PRICE, up until the begiming of active

investigation of MM, was an established source; however, now,

that MM is subject of active investigation this office is in

process of establishing PRICE either as a confidential

NW 64578 Docld:32335673 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DN 62-1491

source of information or a racial informant.

As PRICE will no doubt be qualified in the future

as a confidential source or racial informant, information

received from him and included in rerep should receive

the same protection as that information we will receive

from him in the future.

Bureau requested information as to extent and

results of investigation conducted as to units outside

of the Denver area. Investigation, to the present time,

fails to reflect any MM units outside the Denver area; however,

investigation is still continuing. It is noted that

Philadelphia was requested to interview GEORGE TALLENT as

to his knowledge of MM activity in this area. It is our

opinion that when more information is obtained about in-

dividual members of MM, consideration will be given to seek

Bureau authority to interview some of the members, in effort

to obtain further information about the MM.

NW 64578 Docld:32335673 Page 4

---

