# docid-32327940

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10181

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3960-55

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/07/1963

20

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Hecords Lollection Act or

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

59752 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32327940 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

RET!

ADMINISTRATIVE

it came to the i

on 3/14/63, the Miami Division advised that on 2/Braz11e

ttention of the Legat, Rio de Janiero,

that SIDNEY MOSS had been taken into

custody on 2/5/63,

by the police in Rio de Janiero, Brazil, It was reported

service in Rio de laniero, had been accused

who had been operating a Drive It Yourself Automobile

of "stealing"

his own cars:

This specific case mentioned involved the rental

by MOSS

on 1/10/63, of a car to an individual in Rio de

Janiero, for 25 days. Ten days later the car was stolen

and was

located by the police in the rear of MOSS' car rental

service, where reportedly it had been prepared for "transfer"

to a city in the southern part of Brazil.

MOSS had already

filed an insurance claim for the loss on this vehicle.

matter was discussed by the Legat, Rio de Janiero with SERGIO

AZEREDO, Chief of the Maritime Service, Rio de Janiero,

Brazil, who has been handling

efforts to expel Moss from

Brazil. AZEREDO advised on 2/7/63, that he would attempt to

use this delinquency by MOSS

as the basis for immediate

expulsion of MOSS from Brazil withou: awaiting the decision

the Supreme Court of Brazil concerning his attempts

On 2/21/63, AZEREDO stated that the matter was still in

pending status. (/bus

During the latter part of March,,, 1963, PCI JOHN MARCIGLIANC

advised SA JOHN

D. SWIFT that JOHNNY BURNS IS

a "Captain"

in Brooklyn, having succeaded JOHNNY ROBERTS in his operation

after ROBERTS 'death. He stated that JOHNNY BURNS is very

highly regarded among the hoodlum elements. He added that

JOHNY BURNS has a brother "SALLIXBURS, who owns a florist

shop on Prince st. , aetween

"Mott and Elizabeth Streets; NYC.

(Physical observation identified this shop as the cathedreale

Flowers, 2o Prince st., Nic).

The informant stated that

SALLY BURNS is a big shylock and is never found

at the

florist shop which appears to be nothing more than a front.

The informant related that the aforementioned SALLY

BURNS should not be

confused with SALLY, BURNS (SALVATORE

GRANELLO), an Old time' combination" man, who at one time was

worth a great deal of money and formerly owned a bar and restaurant

in Upstate New York.

COVER PAGE

- B -

NW 68262 Docld:32327940 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

the intormant identifled one jAKE MORkeLLI (phonetic), the

SECRET

proprietor of the Village Owl Social Club, 234 Mulberry St., NYC,

and an individual by the name of "MUMIY", as "button men" under

JOHNNY BURNS.

It was the informant's impression that both "MUMMY" and

MORRELLI work in behalf of BURNS, who is from Brooklyn, on the

Lower East Side in the Elizabeth

St. area.

mace at this location prion to the attempted develodment of a

highly confidentiäl source.

The files of the NY División reflect that NANCYQJAMES also

known as "Chickie"

Mansontormerly operated the Stable Restaurant,

136 W.56th St.,

"front" for hoodlum activities.

JAMES

was reportedly arranging dates between girls employed at

the above restaurant and

wel known celebrities in NY.

. Subsequent

investigation failed to indicate anv violation of the WSTA Statute.

In view of the fact that the information, describing the subject

as an "insane killer", was received secondhand by NY T-4 and

ne was unable to Iurnish any additional details, a caution statement

is not being set forth at the present time.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 3364-C-TE

Contacting Agent

BENJAMIN F. GRAVES

NY

T-2

NY 204-C

NÝ I-3

Mr. NICHOLAS PAPPAS

41 - 21 34th Ave.,

LIC

(by request)

NY T-4

PCI HOWARD KREITSEK

NY T-5

PCI DONALD SABELLA

PAUL G. DURKIN

EUGENE, J. HINDES

EUGENE J. HINDES

CHARLES J. GARVEY

COVER PAGE

SECREL

NW 68262 Docld:32327940 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-=-.

SECRETLI

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS CONT'D

Identity of Source

NY T-5

CSNY 1

Contacting Agent

IC JAMES F. AHEARN

NY T-7

NY 3661-C

NY I-8

PCI JOHN MARCIGLIANO

JAMES T. MC SHANE

JOHN D. SWIFT

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES (INFORMATION)

An information copy of this report is being furnished to

the Los Angeles Division in view of the current investigation

being conducted in that area.

MIAMI (INFORMATION)

An information copy of this report is being furnished

to the Miami Division in view of the current investigation

being conducted in that area.

NEWARK

Will determine the registrants. and appropriate background

information relative to the following NJ registrations:

HCU5 7₴

GLS305

GKM303

PHOENIX

(INFORMATION)

An information copy of this report is being furnished to

the Phoenix Division in view of the possibility of additional

information being requested of that office.

COVER PAGE

-D-

PRET

NW 68262 Docld:32327940 Page 4

---

