JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

08/18/98"
ne

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES

‘ AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10005-10140
DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGES 1110-1117

: USA

STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

10/05/66

8

SCHEER, ROBERT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED

3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95

NW 64954 Docld:34530159 Page 1


5:

ARMED FORCES SECURITY QUESTIONNAIRE

1, The interests of National Security require that all persons
being considered for membership or retention in the Armed
Forces be reliable, trustworthy, of good character, and of com-
plete and unswerving loyalty to the United States. Accordingly.
it is necessary for you to furnish information concerning your
security qualifications. The answers which you give will be used
in determining whether you are eligible for membership in the
Armed Forces, in selection of your duty assignment, and for such
other action as may be appropriate.

2. You are advised chat in accordance with the Fifth Amend-
ment of the Constitution of the United States you cannot be

1. There is set forth below a list of names of organizations,
groups, and movements, reported by the Attorney General of the
United States as having significance in connection with the
National Security. Please examine the list carefully, and note those
‘organizations, and organizations of similar names, with which you
are familiar. Then answer the questions set forth in Part IV below.

2. Your statement concerning membership or other association
with one or more of the organizations named may not, of itself,
cause you to be ineligible for acceptance or retention’ in the

1.—EXPLANATION

compelled to furnish any statements which you may reasonably
believe may lead to your prosecution for a crime. This is the
only reason for which you may avail yourself of the privilege af-
forded by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions
under Part IV below. Claiming the Fifth Amendment will not
by itself constitute sufficient grounds to exempt you from mili-
tary service for reasons of security. You are not required to
answer any questions in this questionnaire, the answer to which
might be incriminating. If you do claim the privilege granted by
the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer any question, you
should make a statement to that effect after the question involved.

I. —-ORGANIZATIONS OF SECURITY SIGNIFICANCE

Armed Forces. Your age at the time of such association. cit-
cumstances prompting it, and the extent and frequency of
involvement, are all highly pertinent, and will be fully weighed.
Set forth all such factors under “Remarks” below, and continue
on separate attached sheets of paper if necessary.

3. If there is any doubr in your mind 2s to whether your name
has been linked with one of the organizations named, or as to
whether a particular association is “worth mentioning,” make a
full explanation under “Remarks.”

DD fo™ 98
nw 64954" Bocid:34530159 Page 2

Organizations designated by the Attomey Gene

Communist Party. U.S. A., its subdivisions, sub-
sidiaries and affiliates.

‘Communist Political Association.

subsidiaries and affiliates, including—
‘Alabama People’s Educational Association.
Florida Press and Educational League.
Oklahoma League for Political Education
People’s Educational and Press Association of Texas.
Virginia League for People’s Education.

Young Communist League.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade.

Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois.

Action Committee to Free Spain Now.

American Association for Reconstruction in Yugo-
slavia, Inc.

‘American Branch of the Federation of Greek Mari-
time Unions.

Ametican Christian Nationalist Party.

American Committee for European Workers’ Relief.

American Committee for Protection of Foreign Bor.

American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in
Bitobidjan, Inc.

‘American Committee for Spanish Freedom.

American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Inc.

American Committee 10 Survey Labor Conditions in
Europe.

American Council for a Democratic Greece, formerly
known as the Greek American Council; Greek
American Committee for National Unity.

American Council on Soviet Relations.

‘American Croatian Congress

‘American Jewish Labor Council.

American League Against War and Fascism.

‘American League for Peace and Democracy.

‘American National Labor Party.

‘American National Socialist League.

‘American National Socialist Party.

‘American Nationalist Party.

American Patriots, Inc

American Peace Crusade.

‘American Peace Mobilization.

‘American Poles for Peace.

‘American Polish Labor Council.

‘American Polish League.

American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the
United American Spanish Aid Committee).

Amierican-Russian Fraternal Society.

American-Russian Insticute, New York (2/10 tnoun
as the American Russian: Institute for Cultural Re-
lations with the Sovset Unto).

American Russian Institute, Philadelphia.

American Russian Institute of San Francisco.

American Russian Institute of Southern California,
Los Angeles.

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS

American Slav Congress. a

American Women for Peace.

‘American Youth Congress.

American Youth for Democracy.

Armenian Progressive League of America.

Associated Klans of America.

Association of Georgia Klans.

Association oft German Nationals /Reichtdeutsche
Vereinipung )

‘Ausland-Organization der NSDAP. Overseas Branch
of Nazi Parry.

Baltimore Forum.

Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee.

Black Dragon Society.

Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massa.
chusetts.

Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Committee.

Bulgarian American People’s League of the United
States of America,

California Emergency Defense Committee.
California Labor School, Inc., 321 Divisadero Street,
San Francisco, California. *

Central Council of American Women of Croatian
Descent (alto Anown as Central Council of Amer-
ican Croatian Women, National Council of Croa-
tian Women)

Ceneral Japanese’ Association (Beitoku Chuo Nippon:
jin Kai). .

Central Japanese Association of Southem California.

Centtal Organization of the German-American Na-
tional Alliance (Deutsche-Amerikanische Einbeits.
front).

Cervantes Fraternal Society.

China Welfare Appeal. Inc.

Chopin Cultural Center.

Citizens Committee to Free Eatl Browder.

Citizens Committee for Harty Bridges.

Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side ( New
York City).

Citizens Emergency Defense Conference,

Citizens ‘Protective League. ' :

Civil Liberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh

Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organiza.
tions, including Civil Rights Congress for Texas.
Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights

Congress of New York.

Columbians.

Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola.

Comite Pro Derechos Civiles

Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland.

Committee to Aid the Fighting South

Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of
Pitesburgh’s Political Prisoners.

RE OBSOLETE (for Army use),

elgg" 88 Bend (Ameribadincber Vote

|, pursuant to Executive Order 10450, are listed below:

‘Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy.

Committee for. Constiutional and Political Freedom.

Committee for the Defense of che Pittsburgh Six.

Committee for Nationalist Action.

‘Committee for the Negro in the Arcs.

‘Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in
Philadelphia,

Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights,

Commitee for World Youth Friendship and Cul-
tural Exchange.

Committee to Defend Marie Richardson.

Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights

‘Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas.

Congress Agains« Discrimination.

Congress of the Unemployed

Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith
‘Act

Connecticut State Youth Conference.

Congress of American Revolutionary Writers.

Congress of American Women

Council on African Affairs.

Council of Greek Americans.

Council for Jobs, Relief, and Housing.

Council for Pan-American Democracy.

Croatian Benevolent Fraternity.

Dai Nippon Butoku Kai (Military Virtue Society of
Japan or Military Art Society of Japan).

Daily Worker Press Club

Daniels Defense Committee,

Dante Alighieri Society *Between 1935 and 1940).

‘Dennis Defense Committee,

Detroit Youth Assembly.

East Bay Peace Committee.

Elsinore Progressive League.

Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees
(founding body of the North American Spanish Aid
Committee)

Everybody's Committee‘to Outlaw War.

Families of the Baltimore Smith Ace Victims

Families of the Smith Act Victims.

Federation of Italian, War Veterans in the U.S. A.,
Inc. (Associazione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani,
Federaztone degli Stati Uniti d’ America).

Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society.

Florida Press and Educational League.

Frederick Douglass Educational Center.

Freedom Stage, Inc.

Friends of the New Germany / Freunde det Newen
Deutschlunds).

Friends of the Soviet Union.

Garibaldi American Fraternal Society

George Washington Carver School. New York City,



Germio American Repubhcan League

German American Vocauonal Leapie ¢ Dewule
Aneribaniscbe Berufige meinubajt)

Guardian Club.

Harlem Trade Union Council.

Hawa Coal Liberties Committee

Heimuska Kai. also known 25 Nokuber Herel.
Gimusha Kas, Zaibel Nihonjin, Heiaku Gumu-
sha Kar and Zaiber Heimushs Kat ¢ Japance Re
siding on America Miltcary Conscripts Assecration)

Hellenic:American Brothethood.

Hinode Kai / Imperial Japanese Reverists)

Hinomary Kar / Rung Sum Flag. Sociey—a_ group
of Japanese War Veterans)

Hokuber Zaigo Shoke Dan (North Ameriacn Reserve
Ophcers “Aston nation)

Hollywood Wrners Mobilization for Defense

Hunganan-Amencan Council for Democracy.

Hungarian Brotherhood.

Waho Pension Union.

Independent Party / Seattle. Washington).

Independent People's Party

Industrial Workers of the World.

International Labor Defense.

International Workers Order, its subdivisions, sub-
sidiaries and afbliaces,

Japanese Association of America,

Japanese Overseas Central Society /Kurgar oho
Chuo Kar)

Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo. Japan. 1940.

Japanese Protective Association / Recruiting Organ
os)

Jefferson School of Social Science. New York City.

Jewish Culture Sociery

Jewish People’s Committee

Jewish People's Fraternal Order

Jikyoku Lin Kai / The Commriter for the Criss)

Johnson-Forest Group.

Johnsomtes,

Joie Ance-Fascist Refugee Committee

Joint Council of Progressive lealian-Americans, Inc.

Joseph Weydemeyer School of Social Science. St
Louis. Missourt

Kiber Seinen Kar 1 Asseceation of U.S. cuttzens of
Japanese anvesiry who have ruiwened to America after
‘tudying im Jupasn)

Koights of the White Camelia,

Ku Klux Klan.

Kyfthaeuser. also known as Kyffhaeuser League
{Kyffhbsewser Bend). KyAhacuset Fellowship (Kyf-
bacuser Kamersdichaft)

Kyfhacuser War Relief /Kyfhacwier Kregtbilfiuerk).

Labor Council for Negro Rights.
Labor Research Association, Ine.
Labor Youth League.

League for Common Sense,

League of American Writers,

Lictor Society (altam Black Short.

Macedonian-American People’s League

Mario Morgantini Circle

Maritime Labor Commuttee to Defend Al Lannion,

Maryland Congress Against Discrimination,

Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights

Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not con:
nected with the Minute Women of the U.S. A.
Inc.)

Maurne Braverman Defense Committee.

Michigan’ Civil Rights Federation

1. Set forth an explanation for each answer checked “Yes”
under question 2 below under “Remarks.”
extra sheets as necessary for a full explanation, signing or initial-

ing each extra sheet.

2. Title 18, U. S. Code, Section 1001, provides, in pertinent
. falsifies, conceals or covers up... a ma-

_ statements
or uses any false writing . . . shall be fined not more than
$10,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.” Any
false, fraudulent or fictitious response to the questions under Part
IV below may give rise to criminal liabili

part: “Whoever .
terial fact, or makes any false

Nw sabsa’ poeid-aasho1s9 Page 3

y under Title 18,

Michigan Council for Peace,
Michigan School of Social Science.

Nanka Teikoku Guoyudan ¢ Impertal Military briends
Group or Southern Californta War Veterans)

National Association of Mexican Americans («lhe
brown as Aroctacton Nacional Mexico: Americana),

National Blue Star Mothers of America (nat to be
confused with the Blue Star Mathers of America
organized in February 1942)

National Committee for the Defenie of Political
Prisoners.

National Committce for Freedom of the Press.

National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith
‘Ace Views

National Committee to Win the Peace,

National Conference oa American Policy in China
and the Far East /2 Conference called by the Com-
imutiee for a Democrat Far Eastern Policy),

National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent.

National Council of American-Soviet Friendship,

National Federation for Constitutional Liberties.

National Labor Conference for Peace.

National Negro Congress

Nanional Negro Labor Council

Nationalist Action League

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico.

Nature Friends of Amecica (Since 1933)

Negro Labor Victory Committee.

New Committee for Publications

Nichiber Kogyo Kaisha / The Great Fuyis Theatre)

North American Comminee to Aid Spanish Democracy

North Amerian Spanish Aid Committee.

North Philadelphia Forum,

Northwest Japanese Association.

Ohio School of Social Sciences.
Okishoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners
‘Oklahoma League for Political Education,

Original Southern Klans, Incorporated.

Pacific Northwest Labor School. Seattle, Washing.

Palo Alto Peace Club.

Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating im the
Canal Zone).

Peace Information Center

Peace Movement of Ethiopia

People’s Drama. lnc.

People’s Educational and Press Association of Texas.

People’s Educational Association / Incorporated under
name Lor Angeles Educational Atsectation. Inc).
also known 25 People’s Educational Centet, Peo-
ple’s University. People's School

People’s Institute of Applied Religion.

Peoples Programs /Seattle, Washington).

People’s Radio Foundation, Inc.

People’s Rights Party.

Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights.

Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art

Photo League (New York City)

Pietsburgh Arts Club.

Political Prisoners’ Welfare Committee.

Polonia Society of the 1WO.

Progressive German-Americans, also known as Pro:
gressive German-Ameticans of Chicago.

Proletaran Party of America

sant War Veterans of the United States, Inc

Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, South:
west Area,

Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs.

Provisional Commictee ‘to Abolish Discrimination
in the State of Maryland.

Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)

— INSTRUCTIONS

Attach as many

U. S.C, Section 1001.
will not incur such liability unless you supply inaccurate state-
ments with knowledge of their untruthfulness. You are there-

~eftorniquenos Unidos / Puerto Ricans United),

Quad City Committee for Peace.
Queensbridge Tenants League.

Revolutionary Workers League,
Romanian-American Fraternal Society.
Russian American Society, Inc

Sakura Kai (Pusriotic Society, or Cherry Atrocration
‘composed of veterans of Russo-Japanese War

Samuel Adams School, Boston, Mass

Santa Barbara Peace Forum.

Schappes Defense Committee.

Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee

School of Jewish Studies, New York City

Seattle Labor School. Seattle. Washingron.

Serbian-American Fraternal Society

Serbian Vidovdan Council

Shinto Temples (Limited to State Shinto abolished
in 1943).

Silver Shirt Legion of Americ

Slavic Council of Southern Califorma

Slovak Workers Society.»

Slovenian-American National Council

Socialist Workers Party. including American Com-
mittee for European Workers Relief.

Sokokw Kai Fatherland Society)

Southern Negro Youth Congress.

Sutko Sha (Revere Offcers Astociation, Lor Angeles).

Syracuse Women for Peace,

Tom Paine School of Social Science, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania

Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York,

Trade Union Committee for Peace

Trade Unionists for Peace.

TriState Negro Trade Union Council

Ukrantan- American Fraternal Union.

Union of American Croatians.

Union of New York Veterans.

United American Spanish Aid Committee.

United Committee of Jewish Societies and Lands.
manschaft Federations, also known as Coordina
tion Committee of Jewish Landsmanschaften and
Fraternal Organizations,

United Committee of South Slavic Americans,

United Defense Council of Southern Califorma

United Harlem Tenants and Consumers Organiza:
tion,

United May Dav°Commutice

United Negro and Allied Veterans of America.

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights
Congress of Neo York

Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade

Virgina League for People’s Education,

Vowe of Freedom Committee

Walt Whuman School of Social Science, Newark
New Jersey

‘Washington Bookshop Association,

‘Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights

Washington Commuttee for Democratic Acton.

Washington Commonwealth Federatiun,

Washingron Pension Union

Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislavon.

Workers Alliance (sme Apri! 1946)

Yuddisher Kultur Farband,
‘Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home. Inc
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc.

You are advised, however, that you

fore advised that before you sign this form and turn it in to

or makes

U5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE , 1961 O—807912

For Official Use Only:

Selective Service or military authorities, you should be sure that
it is truchful; chac detailed explanations are given for each “Yes”
answer under question 2 of Part IV below, and that details given
are as full and complete as you can make them.

3. In stating details, it is permissible, if your memory is hazy
on particular points, to use such expressions as, “I think.”” “in
my opinion,”’ “I believe.” or “to the best of my recollection.”

Page 2

Page 4


IV. — QUESTIONS

{for each answer checked “Yes” under question 2, tet forth a full explanation under

Remarks" below)

1. Ihave read the tist of nomet of erganizations, groups, ond move-
ments set forth under Part I! of this form and the explanation which
precedes it.

ves | no.

Have you ever contributed money to ony of the organizations,
groups, or movements listed?

tes

2. Concerning the list of orgonitetions, groups and movements set forth
under Part W above,

Have you ever contributed services 10 any of the organizations,
groups, or movements listed?

©. Are you now 9 member of any of the orgenizations, groups, oF
movements listed?

Hove you ever subscribed to any publication of any of the organ:
izations, groups, or movements listed?

ot movements listed?

b. Have you ever been a member of ony of the organizations, grovps,

Hove you ever been emplaved by a foreign government ot ony
agency thereof?

«. Are you now employed by ony of the organizations, groups, or
movements listed?

Are you now @ member of the Communist Party of any loreign
country?

d Have you ever been employed by any of the organizations,
Qr0Ups, oF movements listed?

Hove you ever been o member of the Communist Party of ony
foreign county?

¢ Hove you ever attended any meeting of any of the organizations,
9f0ups, oF movements (sted?

Have you ever been the subject of @ loyalty or security hearing?

1, Hove you ever attended any social yothering of ony of the organ:
izotions, groups, or movements listed?

9g: Hove you ever attended any gathering of any kind sponsored by
ony of the arganizanons, groups, oF movements listed?

1h. Have you prepared material for publication by any of the organ:
izations, groups, or movements listed”

i. Have you ever corresponded with ony of the orgenizations, groups,
of movements listed or with any publication thereof?

Are you now or have you ever been @ member of any organiza
tion, association, movement, group or combination of persons
not on the Attorney Gr list which edvocates the overthrow
of our const Fm af government, or which has adopted
the potiey of advocating oF 0} 19 the commission of acts of
pettons their rights under the
of which seeks to alter the form

Hove you ever been known by eny other lest name thon that used
in signing this questionnaie?

REMARKS

oros tft,

REMARKS (Continued)

NW 164954 Docld:34530159 Page 4

FZ serie FE ansiwea- Seve DB He’Sfrery
Orta Se Shey Creftpe 27 FSA Qrtrly
7 PIC wager ise (705 p- ABIES aa!
fer feat Aradlrrent 7 tbs» ae

Page 3



REMARKS (Continued)

Robert Scheer, born 4 April 1936 in Bronx, New York,
@ registrant under the Universal Military Training
Act, was this date given an opportunity to execute
DD Form 98 and in my presence he refused to do eo.

a/LT, acc

CERTIFICATION

In regard to any part of this questionnaire concerning which | have had any question as co the meaning, I have requested

and have obtained a complete explanation.
mental pages hereto attached, are full, true, and correct

I certify that the statements made by me under Part IV above and on any supple-

TYPED FULL NAME OF PERSON MAKING CERTIFICATION SERVICE NUMBER (if ony)

SIGNATURE OF PERSON MAKING CERTIFICATION

TYPED NAME OF WITNESS

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

{
NW saved: Bo@14:34830159 Page 5

For Official Use Only:



cay F ; PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OPSOLETE. -\ ; fh >
nw 64d Erscrakltio i Bag 6 Gers somes oe opens myc its sn

X

STATEMENT @-, _RORPAL HISTORY <ommmmmemes _/

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionn:
answers. All questions and statements must be completed.
fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification.

If the answer is “None,
If more space
attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

‘ire before entering the required data. Print or type all
so state. Do not misstate or omit material
needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and

1 (Print) FIRST NAME—MIDDLE NAME—-MAIDEN NAME (TF any)—LAST RANE
me ° “ 2 status
wes. ROBERT (NMIN) SCHEER : 2
iss XT evan MILITARY On ACE DAY
3. ALIA(ES), NIEKNAME(G) OR CHANGES IN HANE (OPhor than By marriaded 7 PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS

2828 Milvia St., Serkeley, California

5, DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year) PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and.

4 April 1936

Bronx,New York,New York,USA

PLACE CERTIFICATE RECOROED
Bronx, New York

Country)

RACE HEIGHT WEIGHT ‘COLOR OF EVES

Cauc 70" 180. Brown

‘COLOR OF HAIR.

Brown

‘SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS

None

6. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS? L] YES:
NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? C] YES. [gto
ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE 15 "VES." EXPL

NO_ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUGH AS.
‘ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? L]YES fedevo

IF THE

Guce [Ace - -

rus wative | IF NATURALIZED. CEr JF DERIVED, PARENTS: CERTIFICATE NO(S). - | DATE. PLACE. AND COURT
citizen i se anpcour
Pal X [Ls : sua 6 ”
fen yah Sooper ule ape tonurs ;
| no OTS NYSA Bee Gooey up Ca ypreorurs
‘ALIEN REGISTRATION NOMEES 1 FR +1 AT DATE'AND PORT OF ENTRY ‘BO YOU INTEND TO BECOME

- Laves citizen?
ves nO

MILITARY SERVICE

ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U, S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY? (] Yes €]

NO_IF “'YES,"" COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

“GRADE ANO SERVICE NO. 77 SERVICE AND COMPONENT.

: +

ORGANIZATION AND STATION :

DATE CURRENT ACTIVE
Fi SERVICE STARTED.

[ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF AU. 5. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION! L]_YES [gk NO IF “YES.” COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

(GRADE AND SERVICE NO. ‘SERVICE AND COMPONENT

‘ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION

IE "YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING: .

HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY. ORAWING FULL PAY. FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUSY LJ YES jg] RO

am
‘COUNTRY SERVICE “COMPONENT I TF FROM (Date)

CTYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS—GRADE AND SERVICE NO,

Kay ie

EDUCATION (Account for all civilian’ schools and military academies.

Do not include service schools)

WONTH AND YEARL gy Log

EA

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL,
£0 ceubpsere

GRADUATE,
tu teal ws | x0

DEGREE

BD FOL

Xx Academic.

relay
er aren guar diansy stepparsiits
re URE. he ters oten though eceasea:
i'the person is nota U.S. citizen by birth. give d
fumber and place of fasuance:)

fostéy
ric

‘and port of entry, alien registration number, natut

aw} lovime? \sPouse(s) Cit divTrcédPgive date
ded with ot ‘ith whom a gloss reltionehip
nm certificate

RELATION AND NAME DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING ee
biaidis 25 May 1898
euGermanyarusu® courcceysd PeeieedG SUG ‘Isbeu = PET x
24 Apr 1900 2860 Bronx Park East
(ORR Faces Bronx, New York xX

Fab 1942
Eureka, Calif.

Anne Weille

2828 Milvie Street
Berkeley, Calife x

‘OTHER (Specify)

None

eu

GOUT Se

444

Elk”

Exception to Standard Form 86 —
Saf the Budget June 1960



1 oe A
ON, me
IN FORFIGN COUNTRIES (13 ¢ srandparents, first cotsins, aur
brothsrs- anu cisters othe with whom 9 cless refecionship existed or exte
RELATIONSHIP AND NAME ‘AGE “ORCUPATION T aporess 7 * crrmeensiie
“None H ee

4

FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)
—

DATES

‘COUNTRY VISITED. PURPOSE OF TRAVEL
Senate

Mar _196( Witte

Hungery,Soviert Union |

-& Czechoslavkia
Mar 1965 Vietnem, Cer lia, Indonesia Write
EMPLOYMENT RSAOW Brory riploy REAP NAL have fad and all periods of unemployment)

SNH AnD Year
NAME OF mso4
NAME AND ADDRESS OF ewPLoven ‘Suennson REASON FoR Leaving

Se Kleins
Jan 195: York, New York Dakheia’ Christmas over
Us S. Pest Office
1956 1957| New York City, Naw York _Unknown_ School
Syracuse University
Sep 58 | Jun 59 Syrecuse, New York aad Unknown
University of calir.
dun 61 | porketey, celif. Unknown

City Lights Bookstore
Dec 63 ite _| tte sLoFerlinghetts

We Hinckle

Rampert's Magazine

Present 301 Broadway, S.F., Calif.

+ 1

_++—

ges ne ——_F T

{

Tsociat sécunty No.

DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? DYES 3B NO D0 You Have
GCOVERNMES PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER EDN EXP Oven OF ‘A FOREIGN ——_
GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? [] YES (APNO HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? [] ves JEK Act 5 (g}) (2) (D}
3K] NO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS “YES, EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20. | NSRSSSSSESSEEsEnasocoeaeoses

CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons livirig outside the
United States or its Territories.
+] STATE oR

ent TERRITORY

Thame Tarr

. STREET AND NUMBER
Ceq(Lise 3 crepivvand 5 character

| (Basinesscaddress preferred)

Truehaft & Welker
al U;

NW 64954 Docld:34530159 Page 7


aaeee COs A ONCIOENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFUECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUN SUITABILITY.70 PERFORM
‘THE OUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE/FURTHER EXPLANATION? [C] YES vo “ves,” Give DeTAILs. -

See Remarks

youc
20, REMARKS.

i
Em #12) FOREIGN TRAVEla(Gontinued )

bi beet RSBreNesrea tee _
(Feb..2966 to Mar 1966 Vietnam, Combodia, Thailand and x

i reg

I refuse to answer questions 16, 17, and 19 on the grounds that they violate my
constitutional: rights under thelet, Sth 's Lath: AtiahdinérUS ‘to the United $tetes
Constitutions. BARS ! eran i :

ae cau ee “BGO AGERE ca pore ee pee
Hea ee aw tp Meee cept Te, 7
BoU te aRobert Schee: ‘registient under'ithe miditery-Thaining =
and Service Act, refused to complete DD Form 398 in its
entirety.

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
VAT, acc

x

OS TEAL, UNDERSEA NE SHA OE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE. COMPLETE. AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN
Ree gt UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THis FORM CAN BE PUN(SMES ey Site NS IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH.
(See U. S. Code, title 18, section 1001)

DATE SIGNATURE OF PERSON eg
5 oct 1966 |= hom eis
; “AVRO KO HAASO TOA, 1/LT, acc

THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, afc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS

DOATE OF CLEARANCE TYPE OF CLEARANCE AGENCY THAT COMPLETED INVESTIGATION

REMARKS,

>=——$—$ ae

1S. GOVERKMENT PRINTING OFF o—s73450

NW 64954 Docld:34530159 Page 8


NW 64954 Docld:34530159 Page 9 See Remarks

nseaiaarrseterrne deeteeersree re LIST AEE RESIDENCES FROME JANUARY 1897 Pees
se FTA MOR en
ee nn : °
1949' 7958 653 Brittoh Street, Bronx” New York” — “New York ”
1958" |* 1859 Sprecuse N.Y. Merried Student Housipg Syracuse “| New York'*
1959 1961 Francisco Street Berkeley California
1961 1963 2157 Mason Street San Francisco California
1963 [1963 444 Columbus Street Sen Francisco | California
1964 1965 332 Castro St. & 2870 Geary San Francieco California
1965 | Present 2828 Milvia Street Berkeley California
my ae
‘6 PAST AND/OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS

MAME AND ADDRESS TYPE OFFICE HELD MEMBERSHIP

(Social, fraternal. professional, etc.) FROM— To—

See Remarks

a Oe EG

RHE
oe

eat CIRCLE
Ane gm 4 AVE YOU EER BEEN AMEEER OF ht. CAAT ASSiTON, MOVEMENT GPG COMEMATEN OARS wc ANGEATES
Si] OverrHiSW oF Our CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT. OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF'ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE
COR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF
‘HE UNITED STATES BY UNCONETITUTIONG MEANST 4

“| fee iavaitdl

ey

* cs c
He ¥
ARE YOU.NQW-9R NAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY/ ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPEIDESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT. OFFICIAL, OREMPLOYEE? »

ae
'ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH ANY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE, ARE OR
HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVE?

HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTIONS) TO, ATTENDANCE AT OR
PARTICIPATION I ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SQCIAL. OR OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE, GIFT, OR DIS.
“TRIBUTION.OF any. WAITEN, PRED, ORGTRER MATTER, PREPARED! REPRODUCED, OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALTISY

yep

YES,” DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES.” ATTAGH ADDITIONKL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY NATURE
ANO EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, JNQUUDING DFFICESOR POSITION HELO, ALSO INCLUDE DATES. PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE.
gy WI OKIDUNLS HOARE MENBLS OF TH AYE QRGAMZATON, THE LST THE WDLMOUALS AND THE ORGANIEATIONS WITH WHEN THEY WERE OR ARE AFILATED,

wae WER TR Lp Bay May! Lht syoke ; :
yle3 ee fe Teen or says

See Remarks

Ta RAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD. ARRESTED, INDICTED OR SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IW A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR INPRIGONED OR
PLACED ON PROBATION. OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (excluding
‘minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25, or less was imposed)? INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. C ves [og WO
IF"YES." List THE DATE, THE NATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAM AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF NEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

ED HEREIN WHICH WAY RERLTCT
THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE Ful EREXPUANRTION CY vee Eanes On UFO

IRTHER EXPLANATION C] ves C] ne ‘YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM

IF “YES.” GIVE DETAILS

