# docid-32310880

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10308-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-788

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/03/1962

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, SKAR, MANNY, B/F INT, SAHARA INN NORTH

MOTEL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32310880 Page 1

339

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIOR

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL

3 1962

TELETYPE

PM JLS

Mr. Tolson

Belmont.

Mir. Mohr.

Vr. Callahan

Ir. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone:

"Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

"Mr.

Trotter..

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED

7-3-62-3-33

DIRECTOR /92-31711

FROM

SAC,

CHICACO

192-349/ 1P

SAMUEL M.

'GIANCANA, AKA, AR•

DAILY SUMMARY: PCI BEN KRELL, CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF CHICAGO HOOD-

LUMS THROUGH BUSINESS DEALINGS IN JEWELRY BUSINESS, ADVISED

YESTERDAY, HE IS, WELL ACQUAINTED WITH MANNY: SKAR, OWNER OF RECORD OF

THE SAHARA INN NORTH MOTEL, STATES IN HIS OPINION, SKAR IS NOT

FINANCIALLY EQUIPPED ENOUGH TO AFFORD SUCH AN ESTABLISHMENT,

HOWEVER, INFORMANT FEELS THAT THE CHICAGO ORGANIZATION, VIA:

GIANCANA & DOES NOT BELIEVE AT THIS TIME THAT AN ESTABLISHMENT SUCH

"AS THE SAHARA IS WORTH AN INVESTMENT OF THE MAGNITUDE REQUIRED. THE

WORD IS ACCORDING TO SOURCE, THAT IF THE SAHARA PROVES TO BE A

WORTH WHTLE INVESTMENT, THE ORGANIZATION WILL THEN MOVE IN

AND

TAKE IF OVER• (U)

GEORGE VYRDA, PCI, AND ALDERMAN FOR VILLAGE OF BERWYN, ADVISED

TAT SEVERAL MONTHS AGO, SKAR APPROACHED HIM WITH THE REQUEST TO

OPERATE A FLOATING CRAP GAME IN THE VILLAGE OF BERWYN, WHICH,

REQUEST WAS TURNED DOWN. HE STATES HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH SKAR,

AND BELIEVES THAT THE SAHARA SOUTH MOTE

L WAS OPERATING GAMBLING AT

ONE MFUL 19 1962352 BEC-10

2-311

ARMED AND DANGEROUS. (U)

ST-102

-HO SUL E

1962

• END ACK AND HOLD!

it :

WASHES OK

HOGA DA HOLDING

AEL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NATFY -23-84

/ NW 68262 Docld:32310880 Page 2

---

