JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

9/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10091-10228
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 008822
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: ROBERTS, WARREN
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 05/18/1978
PAGES: a
SUBJECTS :
.. ACTIVITIES, FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE
AUSTIN, HORACE J.
BRINQUIER, CARLOS JOSE
ROBERTS, WARREN
HERNANDEZ, CELSO MACARIO
OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE..
CRUZ, MIGUEL MARIANO.
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/25/1995
OPENING.CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Attached notes. Box #:160.

vol

NW 68261 Docld:32254170 Page 1


~NW_68261. Docld;32254179..Page.2.....

KENNEDY

é

008822

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

* Name- Warren Roberts

Address 501 N. Rampart St, -
City/State. New Orleans, La,

“Date of Birth 3-30-41
Social Security tc igi

Physi¢al Description:
Height _6'2"
Weight 229
Ethnic Group_Caucasian

518078”

Date
Place 201 N. Rampart St.

“Telephone 586-5011

Mor S
Spouse
Children

Blue Blond

Color Eyes Hair

Special Characteristics ~

Personal History:

a. Present Employment:

Sergeant New Orleans Police Department

Address

715 S. Broad St.

Telephone 586-5011

b. ‘Criminal Record
_1l. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

‘Investigator Robert Buras | ~~ SeEBEErRELEGEL!

Date



NW 68261 Docld:32254170 Page 3 :

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Mame Warren Roberts pate 572878 Time 2 }O0PM

Address 501 N, Rampart St. Place 201 Ne Rampart St.

New Orleans, La.

Interview:

Investigator Robert Buras spoke with Sgt. Roberts relative to
the attached report dated Aug. 12, 1963,. Roberts stated that
he was in company with Sgt. Horace Austin who actually made the
report. The Officers spoke with all the arrested subjcts in one

room at the same time, The only interest at that time was to
ascertain the possiblity of trouble from any individual or group
represented by the arrested subjects, Feelings were high in the
room and Roberts had to caution the Cubans to keep from trying to
argue with Oswald, At one point in the interview the Commanding
Officer of the First District, Captain James Arnold, came into the
room and asked Oswald if the Fair Play For Cuba Committee was
communist: or a communist front. Oswald denied that he was a com-
munist and that the organization was a communist front. Oswald
stated that he joined'the F.P.C.C. after finding a leaflet on the
street and sending $5.00 to New York. He also stated that he met
with members locally but did not want to give any names etc.

Roberts stated that he did not see or hear anything about
Oswald wanting to call or talk with an F.B.I.' Agent while he was
there. Roberts couldn't remember any other details about the in-
terview. :
End Of Memo

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature

Date transcribed

By? __ Form #4

SERN SEE re



DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

TO i ;_Major Presly J. Trosclair Jr. DATE_August 12, 1963

FROM  :. Set. Horace J. Austin & Patn, Warren Roberts

SUBJECT:__Interview of four male subjects at the First District
Police Station, on Friday, August 9, 1963, after their
arrest from Canal Street. :

Sir:

The following information is respectfully reported relative
to the interview of four arrested subjects in the First District
Police Station, beginning at about 4:45 P.M., Friday, August 9,
1963, One of the four subjects, identified as Lee Harvey Oswald,
WM, age 23, residing 4907 Magazine Street, had allegedly been~
distributing communist literature on Canal Street, and three
Cubans, the other three arrested subjects, had become involved in
an altercation with Oswald, which resulted in the arrest of the
four subjects.

Lee Harvey Oswald furnished the following information when
interviewed,

He is a member of The Fair Flay For Cuba Committee, whose
address is 799 Broadway, New York 3, N. Y., telephone ORY -8295.
Oswald had in his possession a National Membership card issuon on
5/28/63, and the presidents name on this card was “V. T. Lee."
Oswald had also a local membership card dated 6/6/63 (N.O. Chapter
of the FPFCC), and the president of the local chapter, whose name
was on the card was "A, Hidell.” :

Oswald presented his Social Security Card, which did not ‘bear his
signature, and the number of this card was. 433-54-3937.

Oswald presented his U. S. Marine Corp. discharge card (Hcnorable)
bearing service number 1653230, and. date of active duty from

24 Oct 1956 to 11 Sept. 195e.

Oswald stated he was born in-New Orleans on October 18, 1939,
that he is about 5' 9" tall, about 140 1bs., and is a mechanic by i
trade. He stated he did mechanic work in the Marine Corps, and i
that he is presently unemployed and has been so about three weeks.
Before he was laid-off, Oswald stated, he worked at the Louisiana
Coffee Company for about three months, and before that he had H
worked at Fort Worth, Texas, at a sheetmetal place. Oswald stated
he worked in Fort Worth at the sheetmetal place for several months,
but was very evasive in answering any further questions of
employment prior to that time.

Oswald stated that he lives with his wife, whose maiden name
was Marina Pross, WF, age 21. They were married in Fort Worth,
have one child seventeen months of aye, and reside presently at
4907 Magazine Street, lower center, New Orleans.

~NW-68261-Doeld:32254170-Page-4-



Pers

Q) a)
* Oswald stated that he has two brothers, who reside,like his }
mother,in Fort Worth, Texas. He stated that his father, John Lee i
Oswald, is deceased.
Oswald's mother: Margarette Oswald, resides by herself in
Fort Worth, Texas.
Oswald's brothers: Robert Oswald, WM, age 27,
John Oswald, WM, age 32,

Oswald stated he had talked to Major Trosclair about getting a
permit for F.P.F.C.C. and the Major advised him to consult his attorney.
Oswald said he never did go and see about a permit at city hall.

|

Oswald further stated the Cubans came ur to him where he was
giving out the leaflets and began to tear them up and throw them |
in the street. Oswald stated that they sturted to yell that he i
was a communist and about that time the officers from the First /
Disteict came up and a crowd had gathered. Oswald stated he joined the {
Fair Play for Cuba Committee when he found.a leaflet on the street H
one day and read what was on it, and sent $5.00 to the address |
which was. in New York city and after a brief period of time he was H
sent material through the mail and contacted locally, and he started H
to attend the meetings, which he stated were held in each others |
homes. Oswald stated they, the members, get together and talk i
about how it would be to visit Cuba, life in Cuba, etc.. |

Oswald denied the organization was cormunist, or a communist
front, when asked by Captain James Arnold, Commanding Officer of
the First Police District, who came in during the interview, but.
Oswald had in his rossession and was carrving a piece of card-
board with"VIVA VIVA Fidel" painted on it and the paraphernalia |
he was handing out was pasted on this cardroard also. Oswald
stated he has never been to Cuba, and it apreared as though he
is being used by these people and is very uninformed and knows
very little about this organization that he belongs to and
its ultimate purpose or goal. Oswald stated that the people that
attend these informal meetings are working class people, such as
clerical, trades, etc.. :

The three Cubans were interviewed and furnished the following
information:

#1. Gelso Macario Hernandez, WM, age 47, D.O.B. 1/8/16,
Social Security number 265-76-8756 :

lernandez statld he came to the United States via Miami,
Florida; on October 9; 1962, with his family and he was a
traveling. book salesman in Cuba. He came to New Orleans on
January 8, 1963 and resides at 519 Adele Street, New Orleans
‘ with his family. He has not had any employment except for a
few days of manual labor in Miami, Florida, and is presently on
relief or welfare.

NW 68261 Docld:32254170 Page 5


NW 68261 Docld:32254170 Page 6

‘

eee e

The names of the family of Celso M., Hernandez are as
follows:
Wife: Maria De La Caridad Valero, WF, age 41 (Maiden name)
Daughter: Maria'De Los Angles, WF, age 14
Son: Nicholas Pablo, WM, 11
Daughter: Teresita, WF, age 6

Hernandez stated he saw Oswald at approximately 1:30 P.M,
August $, 1963, passing out comiunist literature and he went and
got his friends at 107 Decatur Street and at first they were
unable to locate this subject Oswald when they got on the Canal
Street streetcar, and they rode to Jefferson Davis Avenue and not
being able to locate Oswald they returned to 107 Decatur Street,
the Casa Roca retail clothing store. They remained there until
someone came in and told them where Oswald was and they then
proceeded to that location, where the three of them were carrying
the sign described in formation relative to Carlos Bringuier
in this memo. They then began to argue with @swald and a crowd
gathered and they were all (four) arrested by the police.

#2. Carlos Jose Bringuier, age 29, D.0.B. 6/22/34, 518", 150 lbs.,
residiing-501 Adele Street, residing this address about
three months, born in Havana, Cuba.

Bringuier stated he is manager of the Casa Roca retail
clothing store, located 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans. He
tegan his employment about October 1, 1¢62.

Bringuier previously residing at 2046 Peloridas Street.
He lives with his wife and four children.
Wife: Maria Del Carmen (Bearce), WF, age 25
Born in Argentina, Buenos Aires -
Married in Buenos Aires, April 14, 1956
Entered U. S. February 8, 1961, at Miami, Florida, by plane.
Wife entered U..S. in Miami in May, 1961. :
Ages of children are 6, 5, 3 and 2. .
Julio and Vicenta Bringuier, mother and father, reside at
1769 S. W. 17th. Street, Miamai, Florida, Bringuier stated.
Julio was born in 1895 in Remedios, Cuba, entered the U. S. after
invasion, believed by Bringuier to be in May of 1961.
Vicenta was born in 1894 in Moron, Cuba, and entered the U. S.
with Julio. :

Carlos Bringuier gave the following names of his brothers and
sisters:

Julio Enrique Bringuier, (brother), age 41, born Moron, Cuba,
now residing 1709 SW. 17th. Street, Miami, entered the U. S. at
end of 1961.

Maria Gertrudis (Pelaez) age 42, (sister), resides 2224 Mendez
Street, married to Rolando Pelaez, who also works at the Casa Roca
clothing store, 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans.

Juan Feliepe Bringuier, age 35, (brother), born in Cuba,
entered the U. S. December 24, 1962, resides in New York City, is
unmarried.

Maria Del Carmen (Medina), age 39, (sister), married to Jorge Medina,

age 41, who is in Cuba. Maria Del Carmen lives in Iberville project

Pai ee



-4-

in New Orleans, believed to be on Iberville Street. Jorge Medina was
working in Criminal Court in Havana, went crazy.

Carlos Jose Bringuier also gave the following information
relating to himself. -——

His social security number /* #5 5 (92) (Di,

His selective service number 16 42 3] 1.62, classified 5-A,
local board #42, New Orleans, dated August 24, 1961

Fossesses Louisiana drivers license number 1585883, date of
issue 2/26/62, address on license 4525 Duplessis Street.

Possesses Immigrant Resident card #A 12 546 223, dated 2/8/61

Bringuier further stated that he is a local delegate of the
CUBAN STUDENT DIRECTORATE, in City of New Orleans, appointed by
one Jose Antonio Lanuza, Secretary, American Affairs, Cuban
Student Directorate, P.C. Box 805, Main Fost Office, Miami, Florida,
telephone Franklin 3-1476.

Bringuier stated that his first job in New Orleans was with
the California Redwood Produce Co., on S. Peters Street, owned by
Mr. L. C. Levy. Bringuier stated he worked here two days.

Bringuier then worked at Mac's Discount House, located at
714 Canal Street, for about one year, beginning April 1, 1961.

Bringuier then became a self . employed pedler in April of 1962
with his brother-in-law, Rolando PFelaez. They bought clothing and
radios wholesale and went aboard ships to sell same. Bringuier
stated that he had a Port Security Card.

Bringuier then stated that on October 1, 1962, he opened
the Casa Roca clothing store, 107 Decatur Street, and has been
working here until this date. . :

Bringuier stated that he keeps the sign, in the Cuban's
possession at the time of arrest this date, in his store.
This sign measures about 3 feet by 4 feet, with a picture of the
Statue of Liberty, hand with dagger’‘on end of long chain, and Cuba
ringed by two links of the chain. The sign reads "Danger! Only
90 miles from U.S.A., Cuba lies in chains!"

Bringuier stated that the sign was given to him by Arnesto
Rodriguez, age in his 30's, who resided at 1208 St. Charles Street
in New Orleans, at the time Arturo Frondizi came to New Orleans
in January or February of 1962.  Bringuier believes Frondizi is
a communist, and’ he has two brothers in Argentina who are
Communists.

Bringuier further stated that he came to New Orleans right

from Miami, Florida, by Greyhound bus, arriving in New Orleans
“.on February 18, 1961.

#3. Miguel Mariano Cruz, age 18, D.0.B. 9/27/44, residing
2526 Mazant Street, New Orleans, unmarried, lives with
mother, father and three sisters.

eae hae

NW 68261 Docld:32254170 Page 7


=) -5- ran

Mother; -Victoriana (Enriquez) Cruz, age 56

Father: . Claudio Cruz, age 64, unemployed, on Welfare.

Sisters: Hordensia Maria Cruz, age 26, a student at Capelle
Beauty Schoold, 1509 St. Charles Avenue.
Ina Josefa Cruz, age 25, stays at home.
Maria Teresa Cruz, age 19, works at a petroleum company
at night.

M;guel Mariano Cruz stated that he is unemployed and is a
student Nichols High School, llth. grade, in New Orleans.

Miguel Cruz presented his Selective Service Card, #16 145 4h 483,
classified 1-A, dated 5/27/61, Local Board #145, Orleans Parish.,
also his Immigrant resident card #A 12 920 831, bearing name
"Miguel Mariano Cruz Enriquez".

Higuel Cruz stated that he entered the U. &. in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, on December 5, 1962, went to Miami, Florida, right
away, stayed for two days, in Plaza Hotel, and left Miami and
came right tc New Orleans, arriving December 12, 1962. He
stated that his parents and three sisters entered the U. S. on
the same date.

When asked about other relations, Miguel Cruz named the
following brothers. :
Paul Cruz, age 32, address unknown, in New Orleans, married,
wife's name "Olga". Has two children, and is employed as a
waiter at the Royal Orleans Hotel.
Claudio Cruz, age 33, residing 2569 Congress Street, wife's
name "Angela", no children, employed as Bus Boy at the Royal
Orleans Hotel.
Enrique Cruz, age 23, residing 2601 Bartholomew Street, wife's
name "Olga", no children, is unemployed and on Welfare.

The interview of the above four arrested subjects by
Sgt. Austin and Patn. Roberts was concluded at aprroximately
6:00 P.M., same date, August S, 1963.

Respectfully,
fhe f Qt

Sgt. Horace J. Austin Jr.

Patn. Warren Roberts Jr.

NW 68261, Docld:32254170. Page Boe ee oe nee



ee fe LM be ——|

5-2 £33 — FBR

MEM, ELE 3230 |
Ze 24 Cet L956 Te Ms TEE a

Umea OAR, LISP. Pyrenees

/ opie Weehnmns 4
tlt oe Tra! Pree VF 2| os intl
VAs Green as |
Za tJ tal of >t re Ota der Zath, ea |
Warrants slg Sta |

i |

atch Ge Trine ah abe BAS ons |

it oe pac Qst eee Prine Chas

N 7
mnt earner Ta

NW 68261 Docld:32254176: Page 9 ier tue, f : af


paar Gre FP 02 95
O28 Jes. “UT he
POPC Wa, hpi

; & CLE PU heck

cess acon HE FSP ~ FSI]
Dani

= an ASIC Fe _ .
LZ 24 Det /IS6 LE bgt Visa :

In OAR, 1939, Yorn 0
oe LI pS tae “Weeha——<,

IGS We Pro VE 2 | Mee
Ze oe,

Zz a te Le Ht bo Pe

ait Ze en oka ae EGG? ne sy Sai 4
wo 7 ak nesta Gaia al RULES Ae |
“ a Z Cs |

Saeeaeedete co a7 oe ke aE St rw aoe
cn-o8261—. oliegestife hogii0f sae i

Bisa zt


STE Tccassom
a _wW/y +7. BoB —

a 7. Qus 16 aa

Ott, at CA ime wee

KS: Piles excel

Peat Qe ee .

Ties F_ Caé1n2 Le fA, ©
a eo ens a oz ie Ea cone names
5 EE Cplalinn ab season —— -
7 Tarte Pre os “Dalla )
Finan, La. Foes eg Es
me ee 7 ae a
/ en tata. “fe fad ah al
: \32e dye aK eto Cee, at a (sites iy

NW 68261 Docld:32254170: Page 11.

ipl feeeeeees teed ess


oi Deena
/ a # %o8—//s, fo

~ 7 aos = Tb = 8756

7 FS: eae)
Ott, H bE Came pe Lh

TP lew the lee. Pius

|

“3

oy) A

7 Flext Ae —_ Cant. cia a
tar, Ue. For. Kwgler & /f

NW 6Ez6T 7 sal oe foo. a oy pe Le ts Iya A pomeee

