JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/13/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90143-10033
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-370750-NR
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
i
; TITLE:
| DATE: 03/09/1955
‘PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS :
JOHN HOWARD LAWSON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
| CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA ; INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: | MEMO
i

VOL
+ NW 68262 Docid:32338615 Page 1



a I and II of the HCUA publication entitled
of Communi st - Activities in the State of Florida”

.greater part of the persons identified as being
rty. members ‘in the Miami Division.

fas Peiendly witnesses" and eight. were "unfriendly
The .seven “friendly witnesses" identified some

as ;Communists.of whom some 7] resided in the
atid-some 25 in-the Charlotte Division. Five

: ye “witnesses”. have testified previously as
“‘governm & ‘witnesses and all have been interviewed by the

F Three of these witnesses were former security informants,
ave-furnished information concerning Comnunist..Party 7 \
tivil $.in the. Miami area-and the remaining two were recent- \
y ‘ewed. by: agents of the Miami Division at which time »

to cooperate eee with the Bove remen ee

4

icf

SL

© disciosures were -
Florida later than 1949.
any: Communist Party activ-
ee fay

ie
NOT RECORDED

Mz MAR +8 1955

&

we;

OMA sa é
0ts 2. = Bal ane
“7 2 = Los Ange El
1 > 1009217. ( DEAHSADLER 78 .
1.= 100-4640" (JULIO SANCHEZ ALONZO)

Continued on’ next..page
acces nae Ca eect 0 :

ORIGINAL: FILED



i

; NW 68262 Docld:32338615 Page 3


| NW 68262 Docld:32338615 Page 4


| NW 68262 Docld:32338615 Page 5


NW 68262 Docld:32338615 Page 6
