# docid-34517388

## Page 1

Released under the John

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

992(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW/ 64954 Date:

11-14-2022

Date

Page

:

:

11/06/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10002-10145

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : C6013559P - PAGES 492-499

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USAF

FROM

: WELCH, F. L.

TO

:

TITLE : SUMMARY OF INVESTIGATION

DATE : 11/21/57

PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS : ONICK, FRED W.

***

AMERICAN RED CROSS

***

***

ONICK, WILLIAM FREDERICK

**

*W*

ONICK, VERA ORLOFF

*I*

* T*

BELOGRODSKI, VALENTINA

RUSSIAN-AMERICAN SOCIETY

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

BELOGRODSKI, WALTER

*W*

*A*

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

*I*

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

* *

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

*C*

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

*A*

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

*R*

OPENING CRITERIA : UPON COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY AFOSI FOR RELEASABILITY*D*

COMMENTS : DOCUMENT HAS BEEN REFERRED TO THE AIR FORCE OFFICE OF *

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS FOR RELEASABILITY

***

DETERMINATION.

* **

***

NW 64954

Docld:34517388 Page 1

---

## Page 2

21. Nove

2997

SUBJECT: FREDERICK WILLIAN MICK - Anerican Bed Cross horrorentativo

1. FERSONAL, HISTORY - SUBJECT was born i July 1921 at San Factors

califonia.

His parents were both born in Russia; hie mothor la decenari

and his father, ms born 18 Deceber 1894, Imigratod to the United States

in 1913, was naturalized in 1934 and presently resides at 26 Bently Contr

corte Nadora, California. SUBJECT attanded San Franeince Jundor Callege

and colden State Callege, both at Sen Francioco, California. He serred in

the U. S. Aruy fren 20 May 1942 60 21 April 19416 and Iron 11 October 1952

to 31 October 195k at which time he was raleasod from active duty: De nain

tains a cormiasion in the Army reserve.

SUBJECT was employed in private

industry from 1946 to 1951.

He was employed by the merican Rod Croes,

17 November 1954, serving at Pier 91, 13th Maval District, Seattle, Washington,

prior to his assigment at Ladd Air Force Base, Alaska.

SUBJECT ronided

at 2952 Jackson Street, San Franciaco Iron 1937 to 1942; at 26 Rockina Courte

Corte Madera, California from 1946 to 1951 and at 371? 2oth Place keat

Soattle, Washington from 1954 to 1956.

SUBJECT marriod VIRA ORLOTT on

? October 1946; this marriage was dissolved by divoree in April 1949.

SUBNECT married VALENTENA BELOBRODSKI On 28 April 1955.

2. SUMMARY -

Investigation did not disclose any menbership by SUbBer fa

any designated or citod organization, The investigation revealed son=

siderable information concerning SUBJECT'& parents, hia formor sife and

his present wife.

This information, which was developod by CIC, Aruy, the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Civil Service Commission and & source

in Canada 1s set out below.

b. WILLIAM FREDERICH ONICK iS SUBJECT's father. Investigation

concerning this individual 18 as follows:

(1) It was reported that he subseribed to the Daily Poople!!

World (DW), the West Coast Communist paper In 1938,

1939, 1941, 1942 and 1943.

He was affiliated with the Pussian Angrican Society

(RAS) from 1943 to 1947.

He was alected to offices

In the RAS and in connection with his affiliation o?

the RAS, attended functions at the Soviet Consulate

In San Francisco, Califoria.

He promoted the collection of funds for the Soviet

Children's Hospital in Moscow, Russia.

In 1944, he attended a meeting at San Francisco, Califonald,

where the main speaker was ROBERT MINOR, & national

functionary of the Comnunist Party. (Soo pages 92-93;

179-182)

492

SEGRETI

Die

NW 64954

Doeld:34517388-Page 2-

75319-91

---

## Page 3

(D

(2)

One W. ONICK, not otherwise ideatified me reported

on 20 Jamary 1939 as a contributor of $10,00 to a setaines

fund of the Dally People's World. (Son page 183)

(3)

One M. ONICK, 2952 Jackson Streat, San Francince,

California, was reportod as a subscriber to the Daily!

People's World in 1938, 1940, 1942, 1942 and 1943.

SUBJECT resided st this address; his stermther's name

is MARY ONICK. (See page 16; 95)

(4)

WILLIAM ONICK was interviewed by the FBI, 22 March 1956

and advised that he had been a member of

the RAS free

1943 to 1947 and active in that organization

He stated

that his motivation for joining vas a desire to sid the

Russian-American War effort. He stated that he visito

with and was in contact with officials of the Russian

Consulate in San Francisco on numerous occasions.

He

denied knowledge of any intelligence or espionage activities

on the part of the Russians. (See page 198-200)

(5) WILI,IAM ONICK advised he had recently (1955) received a

letter from his son, who stated he had a deep desire to

effect a transfer with the Red Cross to Alaska, but had

been unable to receive the necessary clearance. His son

indicated an inability to understand the denial of

His father understood the clearance to be in

connection with his Red Cross assignment with the Navy.

Department. (See page 202)

C. VERA ORLOFF ONICK WAS SUBJECT's fIrst wife. Investigation

concerning this individual revealed the following infornation:

(1) She was born 24 March 1923 at San Francisco, Califomie.

Prior to her employment with the Department

of the fry?

she worked for the U. S. Food and Drug Administrationg

In the 1940s she was a member of and active in the Rise

She and her family were acquainted with representetives

of the Russian Consulate prior to 1948. In 1945. her

picture appeared in a San Francisco daily paper along

with the wife of the Russian Consul General at San

Francisco in connection with a function sponsored by tha

All-Slavic Council of Northern California.

As of 1948,

the officers of this organization were reported as pros

Cormunist or Communist Party menbers, however, in forwar

years the organization was believed not to be under cou-

munist influence.

493

iS i

SCOTLI

NW. 64954

Docld:34517388 Page 3

---

## Page 4

JEUNCI

Her father, JOHN ORLOFF, was reported at an active

member of the RAS fron the early 1940s until 1955.

He was reported to have been invited to join the

Corminist Party but declined, stating that he was

already performing the work but did not have time

for meatings or direct party activities.

He was &

National delogate to the Fourth Ald Stay Congress

in 1948; this organization mas reported as en artillate

of the American Slar Congress, a designated organiestion.

(See page 104-105; 164-169; 187-190)

In connection with her employment sith the Departmint of

the Army, VERA ONICK was furnished and answered & cit.

Service Interrogatory.

In her answer, denied mabership

in the Communist Party; furnished information as so ner

father's activities, but denied any membership or

sympathy for the Communist Party or involvement in subs

There was attachod to her answers

a deposition by VERA ORLOFT, executed by the law fir 91

and Sawyer, in which she

stated that Executive Order 9835 and the loyalty progran

violated her constitutional rights under the first, farth

and Tenth Admendments of the Constitution.

other protestas

Lions of the matter were also set out. (See page 232-239)

(3)

The law firm referred to above has been reliably reported

to be composed of Communists or Communist sympathigerg

and to have represented Communist Party officials for

-Jears. (See page 225)

(4) VERA ORLOFF ONICK was listed on a roster of terrdnated

civilian employees of the Army by reason of loyalty

Thả u

information was furnished 12 October 1950 by the Intalli

gence Field Office, Fort MacArthur, California, (See

(5) In contrast to the above, files of G2 Army, Washangton,

• Co, reflect that the Civil Service Commission Fate

ERA ONICK on 25 August 1949 as "eligible" for continuo

RA NICK On

employment.

The Army thereafter recommended that the

case be closed.

These records also reflected that she

resigned her position 2 December 1949 to get married.

(See page 212)

do VALENTINA BELOGRODSKI iS SUBJECT's present wife.

She was born

in Poland 12 February 1923, emigrated to Canada at an early age and per

manently entered the United States 21 August 1955. In essence, the investin

gation revealed the following concerning VALENTINA BELOBRODSKI:

404

ECRET

3

NW. 64954

Docld:34517388 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(1)

She was exployed by the soriet Prehis Cumission

in Vancouver, Canada, fran May 1946 to February 1941

she perforned duties for su fc lurravey, wi lu beca

positively identired a a sories Intalligaace Agent.

Her family ras reported as having been long interestod

In the Russian Workers and Farner Cuo and 1is so

cussor, the Federation of mustion Cadians, deseribad

as 8 Communist controlled organization.

In 1950, she admitted former menbership in the hardon

Council for Canadian soviet Frienaship Soctery. Sno Ma

listed on the Board of Directors in January 1945. This

organisation has been described as the forerunner of the

present Canadian Soviet Friendship Society (Commist

Front) and was not considered as being under oper Commlat

control until 1947.

Her brother, WALTER BELOBRODSKI, was reported in 1955

as a member of the labor Progressive Farty (Communist) ®

and as of 1950, he was secretary of the PoLlen Denocratio

nd no of 2950, co

202; 209; 211; 212; 225-216)

1222222

VALENTINA ONICK was interviened by & Goverment ageney

on 30 April 1956.

She advised, in essence, as follow:

She was employed by the Soviet Purchasing Commission

Canada from May 1946 to January or February 1947, working

under SERGEI LUKIANOV. She stated that she was not

trusted with any highly classified information.

She admitted having been affiliated with the Nationel

Council for Canadian Soviet Friendship Society (NCCSMS),

also known as the Canadiar-Soviet Friendshi, Sodley

(CSFS), the Canadian Soviet Friendship League (021,

and indicated having been on the Board of Directors of

thet organisation during 1943 or 1944

She balieved her brother WATER to be a menber of the

Polish Democratie Association (PDA).

It should be noted that the NOSES, cary and PhA ara

described as being cormnist-controlled.

the NOCFs

first bocame openly Comminist donnated In 1947.

(Soa

page 100-101; 178-179: 194; 207-223)

495

.. ,.....

GRET

NW 64954

Docld:34517388 Page 5

---

## Page 6

BEST IMAGE AVAILABLE

SECRET

(3)

VALINTINA SLOBROSY as interried by a mure notes

31. Marah 1950° Thie ponse stazed that she prom goe

cooperative, but she un utiling of mahle to movide

any infertion of value conseming suriel perennel

Canada. She furlahed ibrintion de is see aptoyne

at the Soviet Purchasing Conducion In Vasemes her

associstion with the Condian Seriet Friendship laages,

aloo knom no the Canadian Seriot Frimdbig Sectory

page 216-218)

SEES

(se.

SUBJECT was roported so an associate of ChAMS D. Cucal, not

othorwise identified.

This source, of unstated reliability, meres to

SUBJECT as being affiliated with the CP.

Ho was aloo reporte so do so

ciata of H. WCCA of Sumit Drivo, Corte Madera, California. FBI rares

state that humishi Luce, sumit Drive, lader, a a h men ta 1h

and subeeribed to the DIW in 1953. (See pago 184- 185)

Concerning SUBJECT'S marriAge to VERA ONLONE, & BOUNO 8tAted

that animosity has existed betwen the ONIC and ORIOT fantlios for geverel

years. (Soe page 201)

go It is notod that SUBJECT received comeapondence from one

T. INLOBRODSKI, 3919 Al10e Street, Vancouver, B. Co, Canada, on 13 Aprill

1956.

(See page 156) He raceivod correspondence fros one 1. BLOBNEST!

3919 Alice Street, Vancouver, B. Co, on 15 May 1956. (300 page 153)

h. Nunerous roferences, associates and neighbors of suBle were

interviewed and commented favorably, concerning subscle character.

reputation and loyalty.

Comments of others Interviered consercing StaCt,

which are worthy of note, are set out below:

(1)

PETER CANII, POlloN employos of SURICT at Walter le

Moore Dry Goods Company, San Francise, California,

declined to recoumend SUBJECT for a position of trut

because of drinking habite and talling a lot wile der

the influence of alcohol. (See page 36)

(2)

CARL &. RIZNICK, former employer of SUBJECT, recanended

SUBJECT and commented that sUBJicts first marriage mos

sololy to please the fathers of SUBiBCT and his flupt

nife. (See page 38)

(3)

LEVER RINICK, forer employer of subai, roce

SUBJECT and comented that suBsct and his father have

close relationship and that susacres father vuld do

alrost anything to please his son. (See page 39)

496

CU

NW-64954-

Docld:34517388 Page 6

---

## Page 7

BEST IMAGE AVAILABLE

SECRET

(4) DONNIE BALE MOSTAnded SUNNY for A medias ol

trust.

No Bald comented that sunseTs father med

mothar triod to maintain the ties of thalr Scian

ancestry but fer stato rather than politiel miscon.

holidays and edrioed sublict to mary & "grad Deniten

gdrl." This retoro also cumested that suNDere

isther considered the Corriste repansiblo for ila

leaving his homeland. (see page di)

(5)

JAMES DOSERTY, San Franciaco, CalLert, bellend

SUBJECT & first ullela parate ver ontories and

probably Commister busing this punion sa thole oen.

tinuel strassing for mrs esperation botron the Ultel

States and Russia. Mr. DORSit steted that SUBICY's

lather has a strong lling for his native aumtry and

its customs, but dove not agras with the mroent nuden

fors of goverment.

Mr. DOHERTY raconended SUBAT

(Soo page 48)

(6)

ALPRED PERRERA, Corto Mden, Califonia, roonmended

SUBECT but did state that an had soen Bussion Literature

st SUBJECT's home, balloved to be a pasphiot concertag

tho Battle of Stalingred with JOSEPH STALIN°s pietar

on the front. (Ses pago 50-51)

(7)

MATHUR E. AROSS,

Asadstart Meld Dirator, Ansrican Red

Cross, seBttle, lashington, had no reason

to gestien

SUBJECT?& Loyalty. Mr. KROSs did mation that ho had

attanded a party at subIct's rosidence shich syrined

him, inasuch so SUBJECT bad, so a guest, & legro sol

LiNG AUGUST, who had boon forced to reesen his intricat

Rod Cross position for security reasons.

noted that AUGUST 1a reported to have susociated witta C

masbers and possibly to have been a l member in 1948;

to have suosoribad to the DiN and to have refused se

cooperate with the FBI regarding his Lavolvent in the

recruitment program for the Jersell Alr Force in 1969.)

(See page 52-53; 130-132)

(8) MARI LOU PALLAT, Seatilo, Hashington, rocomondot sinter

for a position of trust.

She did comment that suBarcT

appeared to be suttering fies hypsrtension with reternce

to his clearance for oversons sasigmust. This isterms

also ossmented that SubBct me "alarmed hersuse A0008T

had boon died clearnes and sisted that she had mom.

mended NIUST fOS a MAltion of 88958. (300 19g° 51-49)

•SECRET

407

NW 64954

Docld:34517388 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

BEST IMAGE AVAILABLE

(9)

fomorly the isd bom engest to snat

issenionn agart stated thst ratese arome to bei

motionally doturbed during the tou,

She also montland that Ale father hos had to hals AlMosT

out finanelali?.

(20)

HOUR Y, SONSO, Sasttle, Waszington, beisored suante

& loyal

- Anaricon oftiun.

K. JONSCH did stare that

SUBJECT was sure 01 & probin amorning his sleenem

and had not taken advantage of emportonities te i

any anti-Comunist attitudo. SUAECT had malated to

Ar. JOHNSON that he lns veno Amorican Bussians udgit

boliove in Communten and that it me alright in thay

santed to, but that he ranted so pan of pry type du

polities.

(Soo page 73 79)

(21)

Fad

mended SUBJECT for a ponition of truste sounds

Biag

grated that she hut limed eus of odi with vi

from January 195h to duno 2954. Sho descriBod sul

as having a "mall bay attitudos and baing a bose

she alao stated that suBJBor mues her $90.50.

page 82)

1. In corneetion with instant atter, lots agoney sare sau

neighborhood terestigation more centucted consering SiBir in pertine

areas. No additional substantive infortion to deraped,

SUBJECT answered "or on TD Fora 398 (SPE)e dated " Soro

1953, to questions concerning nonboruhigs (sue page 20)-

The Bed Cross

rocarde contain inforation that SUbJECt enmered "Su to a quotion eus

corning maberahi» in organisations inindeal to the interats of tàr

United States. (Seo pago 42)

sUBJEct ms interriend 15 Doestber 1955 by WD and, s

adriaod as 1oll0ms:

nOn 15 Deesmber 2955, sUBECT man Interlered by 010 and eartsod

thet as of 1945, although not a manes, ho had attended social

funstions of the Fussian nomican Socioty (148) ot %ho Bretan

Consulate, Sen Boneloco, and my have attened ens no to subes

nocial satharings of that orgenintles. to stated that drag t

period 19425, his mumats were elong sanciated with ve

1n sen Prandsoco, alrinugh he ms not mr that they me i

In approdentaly 1945, 14o Sather vitadra lla payport boos

falt that tho RAS had cosmod to crus & hamnatara y

vas bearing polltainl 1e

4"3

TW. 64954

Docld:34517388 Page 8

---

## Page 9

ECRET

BEST IMAGE AVAILABLE

& threat to the Anerloan ver of lite.

soared of them" (500 page 1o6; 192194)

reterance to hid Army Reserve state,

and & farorablo determintion

rendered under date of 30 Angust 1956 (Sue go 1-2). The ends did set

so bafore any board but was closed favorby folloing revier, y tha

Assistant Chies of Stall, Gui, (Son page 209)

1959 for access to Havy installations.

SUBEC as cleard to the she day of to an ene

file utilised by the Department of the Army in omnidering 301320e

case as an Army Roserte officer.

The Nasy Depertuer sxpress

with the conclusions of the Amy concerning the infertien

(Sos page 262)

This sumary is elassified SECRET in acoes

v1a1ona of paragraph 300(2) (k), AFR 205010

Hewich

form

T. I. WELCH

Assistan: Chief

Counterintelligence Dit.

Dir of Special Invastigations

The Inspector General

availa

T71|57

429

SECRET

~NW-64954-

Docld:34517388

Page 9

---

