# docid-32330720

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90091-10151

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 166-114-25

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case# Nw

64579 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OC

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/30/1968

PAGES: : 2

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

RUSSELL MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32330720 Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 3-8-671

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OKLAHOMA CITY

TITLE OF CASE

GEORGE EDWARD BARNES, aka

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

OKLAHOMA CITY

DATE

1/30/68

REPORT MADE BY

SA HOWARD CECIL

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/19/67-1/22/68

ITAR - GAMBLING

REFERENCE: Report of SA LEWIS H. JOHNSON, Oklahoma City, 9/29/67

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

Investigation in this matter was re-instituted when

It

was

determined the subject hadreturned to Oklahoma City from Nevada and

was engaged in a book making operation.

On October 19,

1967,

• PCI

CECIL LLOYD BROWN advised SA ROBERT B. EVANS, JR. that

BARNES had

returned to Oklahoma City and was operating as a bookie in partnership

with an individual named (FNU) WILLS.

On December 4 and 8, 1967, JOb

ELLIS VANSCOY, an informant for Internal Revenue Service,

advised SA

HOWARD CECIL

that he and BARNES were the only persons booking at the

Penn Club in Logan County, Oklahoma.

Each has his own customers

TYPED BY

jri

CON VIC.

AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

NONE

RECOVERIES

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE

2

2

Bureau

(166-114) 1 - USA, Oklahoma

Dallas

(166-1663)

Oklanoma

City (166-12)

iMA

LE8 g

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

1i 51 ba 40

rotation's"

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd:

How Fwd.

BY

..CC, A40,

Orgaaized

Crimina! Diviaion,

10om

mesoterhe Section

2/8/68

62 FEB 9

1968

NW 64578 Docld:32330720 Page 2

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

_YES.XJNO

YES NO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

166+

184-25

REG 19

FEB I 1968

NINE

STAL

ISECT.

COPIED FOR ASCH

2/23/78

---

## Page 3

OC

166-12

fired him several weeks ago when WILLS showed up drunk at

the club.

WILLS has stated he is going to

reno, Nevada,

atter January 1, 1968, to work for TOM MOORE at the Holiday

Hotel, Reno.

ROSS, BARNES made a

few payoffs for GEORGE BARNES

to winning bettors, but VANSCOY

described ROSS BARNES

as a

mental case, stating on one occasion ROSS had trouble

locating the address of a customer and had to call back to.

the club four different times to get the address correct.

ROSS BARNES is no longer associated with the bookmaking

operation.

The police dogs used to guard the Penn Club belong to

VANSCOY and are kept on a chain; however, the chain is short

enough that a person can enter the club through the front

door without the dogs getting to him if he is careful:

The re

are no windows in the club and those inside have no view out

except through the

It has a front and side door,

both re-enforced with 1/4" steel

plate.

Two phones

are in

the club, GR 8-1577 and GR 8-0102.

Both VANSCOY and BARNES

answer the phones and accept bets for each other when one of

them is not there. The club is no longer open to the public

in the evenings.

BARNES is in bad financial shape

and is financially

backed by KEN FLANERY and E. C.

of the fact that the club grosses an average of $100,000

In spite

weekly from bettors, BARNES has lost between, $20,000

and $30,000

this year.

VANS COY

gts the "line"

from DALE HINES In LUIS SALA

and lays off bets to HINES. FLANERY

from R. D•AMATTHEWS in Dallas, Texas, and from unknown

individuals in Kansas and New

Loulsiana.

FLANERY

has also accepted some bets and phoned the information in to

the Penn Club.

One of these bets was from a man in

Okmulgee, Oklahoma.

BARNES lives at various motels trying to elude the

Oklahoma City Police Department.

He currently is registered

under a fictitious name in Room

oklahomaCity was been there about weeks and

formerly

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32330720 Page 3

---

