# docid-32239452

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER

: 180-10060-10444

RECORD SERIES

:

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261 Docld:32239452 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10444

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

"ROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 09/19/77

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

SCA, ADMINISTRATION

HORNBECK, JOHN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

вох. 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261 Docld:32239452 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NW 68261 Docld:32239452

Page 3

HORNBECK, John

-Nimo of smaloyce

Address

ANUTESS

Phone Number

Position Titlo

Weath

Jan.

reb.

Mar.

i.pr.

May

Junc

July

AUE.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

NON

= 05 day annual leavo

= 1.0 day annual Icavo

= 0.5 day sick leave

= 1.0 day sick leave

= 0.5 duy adminisirative leave

= 1,0 day administrative leave

0.5 day unauthorized absenco

= 1.0 day unaulhorized absenco

0.5 day leava withous pay

= 1.0 doy leave wilhout pay

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

9-19-77

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

"isonin"

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRISENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YEAK

ANNUAL LEAVE

CATEGORY

1.0

1.5

2,0

BALANCC BROUGHT

FORMIRO FROM

PRECLOING YLAK

Annual

L12.C

SICk

Leave

DAY OF MONTIL

THIS RUNN

Annual

29 / 20. 30, 311

Leave

Sick

Leave

TAYS LOVEH

Anual

Leave

Sick

Lcaro

T15 MOnTH

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANEC

AT CLOSE

OF MONTH

Araual

Leave

Sick

Leave

EMPLOYEE

INITIALS

//

7/11/78

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

Dutc

(il employee reluses to sign, state reason below."

Chief's Signature

Date

Approved: -

Clerk of she Housa

Daid

This record will be lerwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBITI

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes.

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

John #. Hornbeck

Employee Social Security Number

JEK Act 5 (g) 12) 11

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

7/11/78

Effective Date

Type of Action

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

Termination (Ar close of business on effective date)

I Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and endins

-lose of business_

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service, annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or • Professional.

2. i Special Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res 255

or 25th Congress.

3. I Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level.

Step

I certity that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

July 7

Date_

78

19

If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES..

CHAIRRAN

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House. Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget; and the Joint Committees, must.

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

• Monthly Annuity$

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits

Payroll _

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1; 1977)

NW 68261 Docld:32239452 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

• (Please Use Typewriter ", ÷

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D C 20515*

Any erasures, corrections, or change

I this form must be initialed by t

authorizing official)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action.

John H. Hornbeck

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Employee Social Security Number

Effective Date

9/19/77

Type of Action

JFK Act 5 (g) (2)(D

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

Appointment

O Salary Adjustment

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$34,000

Staff Counsel

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. [ Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or ] Professional

2 [ Special or Select Committee. Authority-H Res.

465

-of. 95th Congress.

3 • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number_.

It applicable, Level

I certify that this authorization is not in

violation

relatives.

Date_.

Septenber 19

_, 19.

7%

Step_

of 5 U.SC 3110(b), -prohibiting the employment of.

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

-Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity S_.

9/23

neck.

via / Him

.00

Copy for initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 Docld:32239452 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmo ther

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office

inmediately of the change.

IT am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

Il I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

9-20-22

Date

NW 68261 Docld:32239452 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO :

Thomas Howarth

Budget Officer

FROM:

DATE:

RE :

Special Counsel

September 19, 1977

John" Hornbeck

JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

This is to advise you that John Hornbeck has ac-

cepted a position on the John F. Kennedy Task Force,

effective September 19, 1977, at an annual salary of

$34,000.

Please extend every possible assistance to Mr.

Hornbeck.

Stall Counsel / AFK

--

INW 68261 Docld:32239452 Page 7

T--

---

