# docid-34517403

## Page 1

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 64954 Date:

11-14-2022

Date

Page :

1

08/18/98

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10003-10423

RECORDS SERIES : FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: AC643175W - PAGES 108-109

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : J. E. BOYT

TO : ASST CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENC

TITLE : UNITED STATES ARMY OPERATIONAL SURVEY DETACHMENT

DATE: 01/28/63

PAGES

: 1.

SUBJECTS : VECIANA BLANCH, ANTONIO

CUBAN OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NW 64954

Docld:34517403 Page 1

---

## Page 2

United States Army Operational Suryey Detachnent

28 JAN 1963

SUBJECT:

Cuban Operations (U)

TO:

Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence

Department of the Army

1. (B) Referenceo:

*. Memorandum for Record, Subject: Contact Report • Antonio

VECIANA Blanche KS), dated 29 January 1963, attached.

b, Conversation with General Leonard on 17 Jantary 1963 re

contact with Mr. VECIANA, Alpha 66 represeatative.

2. (0) VECIANA has previously provided this organisation (USAOSD)

intelligence information obtained as a by product of the Alpha 66 harass

ment redds. He also was instrumental in obteining several Soviet weapons

and a anall quantity of ammunition captured in an Alpha 66 raid on Cuba

for USAOSD in connection with Projeet TREASURE HUNT.

It is belloved that any assistance to Alpha 66 vill materially

enhance rapport between the Cuban group and USAOSD and could be effectively

exploited for support of edsting USAOSD intelligence collection operations

against Cube.

l () II in consonance with national policy, the following courses

of action are recommended for your consideration:

•. ASI initiate stops to obtain the release of the impounded

boat and cargo to Alpha 66 in coordination with the Bureau of Customs.

b. AOSI explore the feasibility of joint OACSI-Special

Warfare, DOSOPS covert support of Alpha 66 incursions into Cuba for

purposes of harassment, sabotage and intelligence collection.

5, (U) It is further recomended that a copy of Inclosure 1 be

forwarded to Colonel W.E. DePuy, Special Warfare, DESOP3.

1 Inold

a/o

J. Do BOLT

Solonel, infantry

Somend ing

126

#5A050/8448

NW. 64954

Docld:34517403 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OND

DAIN 8274 from Project AUTOBOAT (C) reported that VECIANA was coming

to washington to talk to someone about getting an impounded boat released

from authorities in Miami. This matter discussed by Col Boyt and Col

Rolfe with Cols Albro and Boucher, Col DePuy of Special Warfare and

Generals Lansdale and Leonard.

See Memo prepared by Lt Col Rolfe.

Contact

made with Veciana on 22 and 23 January in Washington by Lt Col Drashpil

and Capt Arms indicates that there is some possibility of exploiting Alpha

66 if they can successfully run raids into Cuba and infiltrate agents into

the island. Approval for such action must be obtained and must be in line

with National Policy.

Should approval be granted this unit for exploitation

of Alpha 66, the next step will be to develop further rapport,

carefully investigate the group's potential, learn more about

i.e., leadership, plans, locations, capabilities, requirements and willingness

to cooperate with US agencies (military). No committments should be made

until these things are determined. Should approval be given for

Us support of Alpha 66 raids, etc., complete coordination with DCSOPS should

be effected to assure maximum intelligence collection and operational

application.

Prepared by: It Col Draghoil/USAOSD/529486mEh/25Jan63.

Coordination:

Maj Swafford

Capt Arms WCA

FI

LE:

SD VECIANA

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

109

i...

.....

W....:::"

127

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517403 Page 3

---

