# docid-32328743

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90079-10001

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 62-9-33-241

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

NO

HQ

DATE: 06/09/1961

PAGES:

44

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH PORETTI

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE IA

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09:22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32328743 Page 1

1

---

## Page 2

-CALANS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION NEED

office of Origin

For 1eda

NEW CRLEANS

6/9/61

Report.

5/29 - 6/9/0

130 0

SO REGIS D. KENNEDY

CHARACTER OF CASE

ORGANIZED CRIME IN THE

JEFEXASON PARISH ARIA

Lyped

Lys

Dat

bat

CunaL Intelligance Proqueam

SPECTALA

SUMMARY REPORT

MISCELLANEOUS

AN DORMATION

CONCERNING

36783

ASIZKENCE

Burgat a intel to Louterille and New Orleens, 5/26/61%

C

To Bureau:

Three copies of Jefferson Platish

ordinances dated 3/23/61%

FACLOSDRES

APHIN ISTHATIVE

Or thos

its repost is prepared for possible Grand Jusy action eu

for the information of the Bureau, the Va

ganeting. figures who

contehplating Grand Jury action against a number. of prominent

So Treasury Departuous

operated throughout the torted. Sentes:

cEntral rigure in the Now octene asss ture ed in there e

Departmentecase is SALVADORE DI PIAZZI, ThO Oxact smeroti

presentation of thia case to the Grang""

approvad

Copies

pecial Agent

towe

in: Charge

Do not urit

62-9

133-

24/06 14

Bureau: (62-9-38) (Ench13

•olds orlodhs 121

0119613

14520 aned to gourde

36 JUN 20 1961

NW 68262 Docld:32328743 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-257

it will be in the immediate future.

The U. S. Treasyry Department has also conducted

extensive inquiry in the Jefferson Parish area on gambling

figures who operate handbooks to determine if they are

complying with the Treasury Department's laws particularly

payment of the 10% tax and the possession of gambling stamps.

This report was prepared by SAs L. M. SHEARER, JR.,

RAY E. ROCKHOLD, GEORGE R. MC NEIL, RICHARD BUCARO and

REGIS

Lo KENNEDY.

INFORMANTS

office.

I-I is ALBERT PILSBURY, a PCI of the New Orleans

T-2 is CY DILIBERTO, Captain, Jefferson Parish SO

who is not in a position to testify and furnished information

of confidence.

T-3 is ALICE JOHNSON, PCI.

T-4 is ALOYSIUS A. DARGIS, PCI.

I-S IS JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, Lt. Jefferson Parish SO,

who furnished information of confidence and does not desire

to testify.

Telegraph To reason Telephone and

T-T is BERT EIGHER, Manager, Metairie District,

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company.

T-8 is FELIX JOSEPH DUGAS, a PCI of the New Orleans:

office.

T-9 is BETTY BRASIER, a PCI of the New Orleans office.

;

B*

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32328743 Page 3

---

