JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/11/201

“Agency Information

. AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90104-10152
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: —92-2940-34
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 07/09/1958
* PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA.
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/31/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO
, under the Jahn F. Kenner
fissassination Records Collection Act off
992 (44 USC 2107 Note} Nw
0
v9.1 : 2

NW 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 1


OFFICE MEMORANDUM ~ United States Government

Director, FBI (92-2940) Date: UAB

7. TOs
/ rece: fifa) Pittsburgh (92-226) ,
7 )
SUBIE

CT:. SEBASTIAN JOHNLA ROCCA, was.,
ANTI- RACKETEER ING
00:3. Pittsburgh. 6

Enclosed is report of SA ROBERT A, VORGE, at Pitteburgh,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
: REFERENCES HEREIN IS, UNCLASSIFIED*24
Miamt airtel to Pittsburgh, 5/2/58 DATELofe__BYS
letter to Bureau franlegat, Rome, 4/30/58
_ Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 5/15/58
Report: of SA WILLIAM HENRY SIMMS, New York, 5/12/58
Philadelthia letter to Pittsburgh, 5/29/58 :
Miami airtel: to Pittsburgh, 5/29/58
Albany letter to Mttsburgh, 5/29/58
co Mia zirtel to: Pittsburgh, 6/2/58
Baltimore letter to Pittsburgh, 6/6/58
Dallas airtel to Pittsburgh, 6/11/58
Report of SA FRANCIS B, JENKINS, Buffalo; 6/13/58

1/9/88

ADMINISTRATIVE

‘THE. CONVICTI
ARREST

"> Bureau (aisha 46) ae
2 Baltimore (Encl 3(92-149 : REC» 93
2 Buffalo (92-87) ; 9 A Mee a Lr di
1 Jacksonville (Info) (Encl.1) ey 7 ~ i
1 Miami (Info). (92-163) (Bnel.2) ; eres cect i
- 2.New York (92-825) (Encl.2) P= a
2 Philadelphia 7. & Z WL 10 1959

3 Pittsburgh :
ater ateatiict at

>

Ch
gut 28 1988 1

nw 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 2


C 5

PG 92-226

,

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The, Baltimore Office advised om 6/2/58 that on 5/30/58
MAX.GOLDBERG, .accountant:.for several of Pittsburgh's top
hoodlums in the past,had stated to SA PAUL A. TURNER that he
would cooperate’ with the FBI if he had information which might

“be of assistance. He requested that he be contacted at
Pittsburgh sometime prior to 6/9/58 and advised that he expected
to be back at his Baltimore, Maryland, residence on or about

1/2/58.

. MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, accountant for MIKE GENOVESE,
SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, and GABRIEL and SAMUEL MANNARINO for :
many years, was interviewed by SA ROBERT A, VOEGE on 6/6/58 at
his apartment in the Kennilworth Apartments, 5700 Centre Avenue,
Pittsburgh, fa., regarding SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA. He advised
that he is still. handling the income tax returns and other
such accounting business’ for LA ROCCA and has been intimately
acquainted with him for many years; He stated that he appeared
at. Pittsburgh during the trial of LA ROCCA several years ago
and investigated LA ROCCA's past accounts, at which time he
found that. LA: ROCCA ,actually owed’ the government money. He
advised that ‘he informed LA ROCCA of this fact and told LA ROCCA
he. would have to pay. GOLDBERG estimates that LA ROCCA owes
him approximately $5,000 for work which he has done for him in
the past. . He stated that he fully expects to be reimbursed by
LA ROCCA ‘but does not know when this will be. He advised that he
isan honest accountant who has never had any reason to conceal
anything that might be of interest to the Federal Government.
During a discussion of his background, he’ advised that he had
once made application to thé. FBI and the U.S. Secret Service,
but did not ‘go into any. branch of the. Federal Government ‘because
more lucrative business propositions came about at approximately
‘the same time. ss 7 é :

‘GOLDBERG. advised that he would be willing to cooverate
with the FBI‘ in his: capacity as an accountant and would furnish
any figures or work’ sheets that the’ FBI might want to examine.
He was unable. to furnish any specific information regarding
LA ROCCA that is not‘ already known by the Pittsburgh Office, and
advised that the only work papers he has regarding LA ROCCA are
duplicates of these which were sent to the Internal Revenue
Service during the past several years, He stated that he is

-~ 2

NW 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 3


PG 92-226

willing to. be contacted’ ona regular and continuing: basis. but-
that he will ‘telephonically contact the FBI in either Pittsburgh
or Baltimore should he come into-possession of any information
which he feels would’ be of value’ to investigations being
conducted on racketeers for whom’ he has worked.

a ' The following individuals are being utilized by the
Pittsburgh Office in the LA ROCCA investigation: : :

Miss FRANCES PRIAM, potential criminal- informant, who is
: well acquainted with many of Pittsburgh's top’ hoodlums
cs “°" “and who 18" presently empbyed’as a waitress in. the Red
°°“ Kagle Club, formerly known’ as the Genovese Cocktail
: Lounge’, 412 Larimer Avenue,’ Pittsburgh, where she
comes in constant contact. with MIKE GENOVESE, JOHN _
“LA ROCCA, subject's younger brother, and other members
‘of Pittsburgh's racketeering element, She is presently
-being utilized for the coverage°of the GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-
“NELSON ‘interests’ te
PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with. the GENOVESE
brothers and particularly FIORE, and who is being
utilized presently for general coverage of the Red
Eagle Club and its ‘visitors,

GEORGE "MOON".MESSER, a potential criminal informant; who
is. intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top :
_ hoodlums’ and racketeers through association with the
when they began-their racket tareers, and who is Saat
presently being utilized for coverage of the GENOVESE-
NELSON-LA ROCCA interests, i 2

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA, a potential criminal informant, who
is’ presently engaged in racket activity in the city z
of Pittsburgh and-who is being, utilized for general
coverage of lottery operations and numbers operations
in the: Pittsburgh area. ~ 5

’ AL BUCK, former Allegheny: County Detective and present

Vice’ President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan

: Department, Pittsburgh, Pas, whois being utilized for

7 his knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh ©

NW 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 4


PG 92-226

whereby he can obtain information regarding. bank

‘loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums. BUCK is

also familiar with the activities of several of
E Pittsburgh's top hoodlums; particularly those of
LA“ROCCA, from having worked on criminal. matters
: for many years in the city. of Pittsburgh: 5

In’anéffort:to- increase criminal informant coverage,
at is 5 anticlpated that CHARLES CAPUTO, Assistant City Solicitor
for the city of Pittsburgh, will.again be contacted for his

‘views and opinions concerning the Pittsburgh criminal situation.

It is further anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice President, :
Real Estate Department, Potter Bank and Trust Company: Pittsburgh,
will keep the Pittsburgh Office advised of any newdvelopmeants
conceming ‘the proposed construction of a motel backediby GENOVESE
and ARTHUR D.. NELSON in the Monroéville, Pa.; vicinity, which

would probably have to‘have the approval :of:SEBASPIAN JOHN LA ROCCA,

,It is further’ anticipated that former Pittsburgh top
hoodlum SAMUEL’ NATHANIEL LEVINE, who is now-a potential criminal.
informant for’ the Pittsburgh‘ Office, will be: contacted. at:
vegular intervals‘ so that a more complete picture of the
racketeering activities in the city of Pittsburgh may be obtained.

JACKSONVILLE & MIAMI’ (Information). -

One copy of “this veport is: being furnished-.to the’ Jackson-
ville Office and one is being furnished to the Miami Office, both
for information, ‘because of allegations made by the wife of:

LA ROCCA and the Pittsburgh informants concerning subject's travel
in Plorida and Cuba during his’so-called "disappearance" from
Pittsburgh. With the background ‘supplied, it is felt that these
offices can intelligently handle the. coverage of. any future leads
requested. . ; Are

BALTIMORE -:' we og

AP BALTIMORE, MARLAND ie

It is requested that: MAX, LOUIS. GOLDBERG be recontacted
upon hig return to his. Baltimore “TeRLieAge for any information

pas ye

NW 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 5


7G ©

FG 92-226

that might have come into-his possession since his contact

by a Bureau agent: at. Pittsburgh. It should be’ noted that’
GOLDBERG was contacted without any advance warning about

what he would be interviewed about and it is felt that careful
deliberation and thought on his part might result in further
information not recalled during the time of the interview
concerning top hoodlums SEBASTIAN JOHN, LA ROCCA and MIKE
GENOVESE:

BUFFALO :

; At BUFFALO, NEWYORK -
: It-is requested that the subscrtber to-Buffalo

telephone Moh 96205 which was contacted:from the LA ROCCA

residence on-5/16/58, be ascertained and a brief summary of ..
his background set forth. 2

NEW. YORK 4

AT NEW. YORK, NEW YORK

Will ascertain the identity of the subscribers to
tekphone numbers CU 5-8367 and AL 7-2715, and’set forth brief
background: data concerning’ these subscribers... It should be, noted
that CU°5+8367 is°a number which has: been called from the
LA-ROCCA residence on numerous occad.ons and that the last
contact made. from the:LA ROCCA residence with AL .7-2715 was: on':..
4/15/58, for a total of 23 minutes... 7 : a

PHILADELPHIA :
» OM WAYNE PA. 3

Inasmuch as officials at the Peoples First National Bank
and. Trust Company of Pittsburgh can find no savings or checking
account in-the name of LA ROCCGA or any of“his known aliases, will
ascertain complete information conceming the checks with which the
subject pays. for-his. adopted son's room and board at Valley Forge
Military Academy. Number of check, date drawn and signature
should be ascertained anda stop placed against the next check .
received by that school so. that. it, canbe determined exactly
where the subject riow has his bank account.”

5 -

| NW 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 6


ah

PG 922226. ©
‘PIUTSBORGE

AT PIPESEURGE, PAL ‘disimsan)-

Ll... < +. Will: maintain: contact’with: the officials of the.
Pittsburgh offices of. the USM, Immigration and Naturalization

Service and Internal Revenue Service. so that..any: new developments
concerning their interest in this matter will be received immediately.

BY Will maintain regular and continuing contact~ with CHA’
THOMAS, Box 71, Ingomar, Pa., (telephone Forest 4~-9995) the owner
and operator of the Gulf. Service Station near the LA ROCCA residence
so that it can be immediately determined when the subject arrives
at his residence. ‘ ae

: |. WADL cheek the: ‘List .of toll calls made from Forest

Mg “5396; the. home telephane of the subject, forthe names: of
racket associates not now knewn to the Pittsburgh Office and
‘will identify and obtain appropriate background of subscribers
to telephéne~ numbers called. :

4, Will, “in the event informants advise that the subject
has arrived in the Pittsburgh vicinity, immediately ‘contact the
office. of the USM where two subpoenaes. are outstanding and will
conduct discreet surveillances of his travel, hed pertinent.
z sontacts made by him.

Bago y ‘Will set. out appropriate Leads | on- ‘tangible results:
‘obtained from a mail cover placed .on the residence of the subject
at Ingomar.

6. wi regularly contact potential criminal informants
GEORGE "MOON" MESSER and FRANCES PRIAM-so-that ample coverage
may be afforded the LA ROCGA-GENOVESE-NELSOW interests.

ite. ‘will, through established informant coverage, endeavor
to. ascertain ithe specific-whereabouts of the subject during the. B
months: of February through, June, 3, .1958,. and his mode of: Spaven: é
) during: that: period. 2

Gee cere errno

NW 68262 Docld:32332854 Page 7
