JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/11/201

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI fer the John F. Rennes
: -90104- fssassination Records Collection Act of
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90104-10229 Se 4 USC O10? Nota) CosathNw
RECORD SERIES: HQ coat
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2940-73
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 02/21/1961
‘PAGES: = 1
SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/31/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: AT

v9

NW 64578 Docld:32332931 Page 1 )


FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

~
/

i

/

PBI

Date: 2/21/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

T0: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940)
_ FROM: SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226)

RE: SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka
AR. :

PROGRAM," dated 2/15/61.

National Top Hoodlum,

visiting at the aforementioned address.

assistance in this regard,

MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.
-P-

3-Bureau

1-Miami (Info
2-Pittsburgh (1-92-407)

ey epg

ReBuairtel to New York captioned, “CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE

HCS advised LA ROCCA is visiting Florida and it is believed
he may be staying in the Miami vicinity. Pittsburgh informant
acquainted with Miami area states there is a possibility

LA ROCCA may be visiting at 8919 Dickens Ave., Surfside, Fla.,
the residence of GABRIEL "KELLY" MANNARINO, Pittsburgh and

Miami has been requested to ascertain whether LA ROCCA is

Miami is also being requested to contact reliable criminal
informants in this regard. It is believed that JOSEPH MEROLA,
former Pittsburgh resident now residing Miami, may be of

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF LA ROCCA FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT u

TO KILL AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE

Al ete ahi P 4d £5
| c jent in Charge

| NW 64578 Docld:32332931 Page 2

