# docid-32296148

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10216-10424

HQ

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68486 Date: 12-01-2022

92-2918-13TH NR 95, 14TH NR 95, 15TH NR 95

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/03/1961

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T

v9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32296148 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

00

3/9/61

AIR TIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914)(92-2918)

FROM:

SAO, PIYTSBURGH (92-236)(92-228)

SUBJECT:

GABRIEL MANNARINO, ala.,

JANUBL

MANHANINO, aka,*

AR

By airtel, 3/7/61, Hand Office advised that on that date MM 660-0

stated that GABRIEL WANNARINO was then vacationing at the Mariner

Motel, Hollywood Beach, Ra,

The 3/9/61 taoue of the "Pittsburgh Fost-Gazetto," daily newt-

paper puss shed in tacogburga, 10g

captioned

"surela volt to haromad, fage 37, aunsaine an artsale

the artiele set out that

on 3/0/61, the Ken 011 and Gas Cempany reported completion or a

second well, called ken No. S, whien is anictatty pragueing as

the rate of

90 barrela of erude 011 and 600,000 cubic feet of

natural gas per day.

The article said the firet well. Ken No. 2

1s 2,000 feet northeast of Ken No. 3 and is now producing at the

of 15 barrela of crude o1l end 200,000 cubie foot of natural

gas per day.

Both wells are said to be located on the form of

Attorney V*

Ke Jones In Lover Burrell Township,

Wostsoreland

County.

The artiele concluded that a third well will be

drilled on this same tract of land, accoring to A. 3, WISE,

President of the company:

It is noted

that it has been reported previously fron fa

that

545-0

April or

1960, BAN MANNARINO, with one JACI

a 45 year old

"aroont ensincer froa butler, far Parad the

6

- Bureau

(3 - 92-07142

3 - 98-2910

3 - Pittsburgh

1

92-236

92-223

- 137-63

142.2912

NOT ERRANAD

185. MAR 14 1951

(9)

63 MARITATEL

NW 68486 Docld:32296148 Page 2

6

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

PG 92-236

92-226

on elther staota clearly (1luninated at night by several permanent

and it has no street or alley behind it. Custorarily,

the back yard

spot 11ghts.

teenage daughters occupy the

is C1EE HANNARINO,

GABRIRL KANNARINO, his wife, JEAN, and their tho

house.

the Bureau has been notified previously, GABRIBE MANHARINO' S

cottage on

old Leechburg Road,

In Allegheny Townshly, Westmoreland

County,

Fa., Is a one-story, frame bullding, which sits back

about

300 feet fron the road on a 10 here tract which slopes

fron front to rear. It has a amall lake in front of it, and

it le surrounded by mooded area.

It has 3 bedroons, a

kitche, a llving-dining room, and a screened porch.

To the

right rearland about 20 feet fron the house is a wire pen, which

holds three German Shepard dogs.

FOL HBREERT I. RAX, WhO

lives nearby, baya there are no

private telephone lines in

the

area, and it la known that the cottage has no telephone.

Fron past experzence.

it 1s knoun that GAERIEL MANNARINO almoot

never has visitors at his home,

especially those having

any connections with racket activitles, pollties, or law

enforcement.

SAMUEL MANNARINO occasionally has viaitors of

the above types, bus the visite are so intrequent ond unpredictable,

that 1s does not seem feasible to consider establsoning a nigaly

confidential source.

With regard to the MANNARINO offices at 1263 Thire Avenue,

New Kensington, Fa., It is noted that this 1e a one story,

red brick bullding.

It is located completely Inside a ten foot

metal fence which surrounde the serap metal yard, and 1t sets

back from the gate, which is locked at night, about 50 feet.

The area betroen the gate.

the serap piles and the office

building is brightly Illuminated by a group of spotlights.

Recently, it has been determined that this office 1s protected

by the Silent Service Systen, an electronle burglar alarm system

which is monitored directly by the New Kensington PD.

Ic would seem

that the most likely spot to attenpt to establish

a nigely confidential source would be at the NANNARINO cottage,

but efforts will have

to be made to resolve some of the

problems, such as monitoring (the cottage is about

35 miles

of all possible visitors, and possibility that there is a

burglar alarm installed)

-20

NW 68486 Docld:32296148 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 3/3/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Vịa

AIRIEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, aka

AR

SAMUEL MANNARIO-aka

In connection with the case captioned "LOUIS COHEN, ETAL:

ITIT - CONSPIRACY" in which it has been previously reportec

chat an unidentified IRS informant stated

EK Law. 11(a).

it is noted that on

3/1/61,

SA JOHNS. HUGHES and SAC BERNARD C. BROWN traveled to the

area in the vicinict of the airoort at Johnstown and

observed that

All three roads giving access to the airport were thoroughly

checked, and it was determined that the diagram was not

accurately arawn.

on 3/3/61, PG 545-C advised as follows:

Although he is not certain they are doing so, he feels the

most likely individuals in New Kensington to

be printing.

lottery tickets would be the brothers GEORGE and ROBERT

They reside at RD 2, Logan's Ferry, New Kensington.

GEORGE BUHL is president of the local printers union and

employed by "Valley Daily News,".

a daily newspaper published

In nearby Tarentum, Pa.

ROBERT BUHL may

• be working in a

new printing shop on Greensburg Road, outside of New

Kensington.

125

92=2918-

2-

Bureau

Pittsburgh

TGE/JW

(5)

REVIEWED BY BI/JFK TASK FORCE.

NOT RECORDED

ON

jas.

7020-98 CUtS MAR

MAR O 1961

37961

DO RELEASE IN

A RELEASE IN PART

Il(a)

DIE TOTAL DENIAL

Ga: nich.

330

MAR 1: 150

pproved

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 68486 Docld:32296148 Page 4

ORIGINAL PILSE IN

---

