NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10471 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32239479 Page 1


|
| NW 68261
| Docld:32239479 Page 2

Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10060-10471

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE : 10/18/77
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
LINDLEY, ROBIN DAVID

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Box. 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


is
Memorandum

To: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director
From: Robin Lindley

Date: November 24, 1978

Re: Request for Salary Increase

I would greatly appreciate a wage increase. As you are aware, my 4
responsibilities with the Committee have changed dramatically in the past
few months. Not only have I assisted with ad hoc writing projects such
as narrations and staff reports that have been used in public session
hearings, but I am also:responsible for writing and editing a substan-
tial part of the final report of the King Task Force.

My background uniquely complements my present duties with the editori-

- al staff. In support of this salary request, it may be useful to reac- |
quaint you with my experience. Following my graduation from the Univer-
sity of Washington School of Law in 1974, I worked for two years as a
full-time Instructor of Law. In that capacity, I taught a legal research,
writing, and analysis course, and had the opportunity to critically examine
hundreds of pieces of student work. I also developed a seminar in writing |
about law for persons without a legal background, an effort to encourage
students to humanize and demystify their own legal writing, as well as
review possible examples of this sort of writing, such as legal journalism.
In addition, I am familiar with historical research and writing. I received
my Bachelor of Arts degree in history (with distinction), with an em- ‘
phasis in United States and modern European history, and while attending
law school, I organized and taught a course concerning the role of vio-
lence in American history that was presented in the Department of General
and Interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Washington.

| I have worked diligently for this Committee since October 1977. As a eel
research attorney, I did my best to research issues thoroughly and accurate-
ly, to analyze and cogently synthesize relevant material, and to present

| the fruits of my efforts in a clear and concise manner. I also endeavored
to see that this information was used:effectively in connection with the
King investigation, despite some obstacles posed by staff regimentation.
Furthermore, I have acted as a de facto staff counsel, notably with the
King investigation in England, as well as in the day-to-day dealings with
agencies and witnesses.

. Consequently, based upon my work with the Committee and my unique
; : experience, I submit this request for a salary increase. Specifically, |
I ask that my wages be raised from the present. level of $18,000 per
year £0. $24,000 ‘pex: year. i

I look forward to my continued work with Dick and the other members \
of the editorial staff. ~I-find my duties gratifying, at times exhilarating, \
and always challenging, and Ido: béliéve that I am uniquely qualified to |
make a significant contribution to our final report.

Thank you for your kind consideration. I would greatly appreciate a
reply to this request.

(Copy to Dick Billings)

|

NW 68261 es a
} Docld:32239479 Page 3


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

o i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Robin David Lindley Lfs79
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
D Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Gi Title Change
0 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
: Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business,

Specify Date

{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary*

Staff Counsel $24,600.00

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
| relatives.

Date_

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.
Office of Finance use only:
Office Code,
Monthly Annuity $________00 asof 9
Revised: Asgun 1,177
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
| Nw 68261 ——_ . =

| Docld:32239479 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FC"“4 - i
| (Please Use Typewriter. =<" US: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES>—<~ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 guttering offi.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Robi David Lindley Hovenber 2, 1978 \
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action i

O Appointment

20 Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Ci Title Change
O Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Asacgelezticns C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. 5 ee )

‘Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$19 ,COG.00

* If employee is.a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity 1
plus the salary received from the employing office.

ed by the employee

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 11 Professional. H \
3. 0 Joint Committee. ;

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) {oe
H
Position Number_______------_-. If applicable, Level______. Step_______. i
| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C.3}10(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives. - a
Bovert 78 jl
Date vember & 198 :
ignoture of Aut 4
| 2 LOWES SPCR j
| 4
4 7
| i

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Cornmittee em: 4 i
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must ~~ 4
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. = }
4
APPROVED: |
Chairman, Committee on House Administration 4q
\ .
| Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code nit |
a FI
as of _ - :

Copy for Initiating Office or. Committee

|| NW 68261 — ——— _
| Docld:32239479 Page 5



eb

| NW 68261 i a
Docld:32239479 Page 6 ‘

| rrr

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES — - . (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthoriziag offi.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

\hereby authorize the following payroll. action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Rebin David Lindley Qecenmber 1, 1977

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
as CO Appointment

alary Adjustment
Change

ploying Office or Committee/Subcommittee

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

D Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business

Assassinatiens

{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Researcher $18,400

* If emoloyee is 0 ci

service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the-gross annual salary shown should include the-annuity received by the employee
plus the solary recei

from the employing offi

(If Committee. Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. OF Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.
2.

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res:

“Congress.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_. If applicable, Level_ Step______..

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives. ; °

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except-those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Choirman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID ___----- a --------------
Office Code._ Benefits ________------------_
Payroll___---------------

oa

——


MEMORANDUM |

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel We.
DATE: October 18, 1977

RE: Mr. Robin David Lindley

Mr. Robin D. Lindley has accepted the position of
Researcher with the Martin Luther King Task Force. His ea |
effective starting date will be October 18, 1977, and \
his starting salary will be $15,000.00.

Your co-operation in familiarizing Mr. Lindley with

peri
|

staff procedures will be appreciated.

ICM:jl

NW 68261 ned
Docld:32239479 Page 7



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or-changes-

i i on this form must be initialed, by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Robin David Lindley October 18, 1977
Employee Social. Security Number ; Type of Action
Employing Office or Committee : a) Solory Adjustment
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type-of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Researcher $18,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or {7 Professional.

2.4

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.._

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__. _.lf applicable, Level_____-_. Step__o____.

| certify that this authorization is not in- violation. of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b),. prohibiting the. employment of.
relatives. on ey ae

Date. October 18

a
snc

_ All appointments and.salary adjustments for employees. under. the House: Classification Act and. for-Committee em=
ployees, except those.-of-the Committee on Appropriations, the -Committee-on the Budget, and:.the Joint-Committees, must
be approved-by the Committee on House. Administration -

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

NW 68261 7 ea —

Docld:32239479 Page 8



MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: . Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

£7 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

LJ 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
f (Please specify. )

obo, Do Le. 18 Okber/#p2

Signature of Employée Date

owe

NW 68261 To
Docld:32239479 Page 9 :
