# docid-32291019

## Page 1

Date. :

Page

:

05/05/99

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD

NUMBER: 124-10206-10295

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-317

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : KENNEDY, REGIS I.

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE : 05/28/62

PAGES

: 28

SUBJECTS : CM, ASSOC, RACK AND SUB, CONV AND SUBS EVENTS, WRIT OF

CORAM NOBIS, WIT,

INTV,

"JUDGEMENT AND COMMITMENT"

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4, SECTION 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/05/99

OPENING CRITERIA

.: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Issassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

59262 Date: 09.22.2022

NW 68262 Docld:32291019 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 {Rev 5~1÷59)

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTTGATION

OFFICE OF"ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

5/28/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA REGIS L.

KENNEDY

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/7/62 - 5/11/62

AR

TYPED BY

mh

REFERENCE:

Report of SA REGIS L. KENNEDY, 2/7/62.

/

ENCL. TO BUREAU: 2 copies of Informant Evaluation Memorandum.

LEADS:

MIAMI:

AT FORT LAUDERDALE, ELORIDA:

re MARCELLO's activities.

Will maintain contact with PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN for information

NEW ORLEANS:

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA:

W111 lOllow prosecutive status in USDC, EDLA for indictment®

charging MARCELLO with illegal entry into the United States.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

-Bureau (92-2713)

1-USA,

New Orleans

2-Miami

3-New Orleans (92-36)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

92

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

2713

317 REC-32

5 MAY 31 1962

tEnes

UN 210/21

ZDECIOT IMAG

BEGE!YED

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT.

EBI

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD..

HOW FWD. -.

BY.

58 JUN 7 1962

NW 68262 Docld:32291019 Page 2

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16—76324-1

---

## Page 3

NO. 92-36/mh

Will follow the disposition of the indictment

charging MARCELLO with Fraud against the Government- Conspiracy

and Perjury.

Will follow the status of the Writ of Coram Nobis

filed by MARCELLO.

Will continue efforts to develop information re

MARCELLO's activities.

Maintain contact with INS for status of deportation

case pending against MARCELLO.

INFORMANTS:

I-I IS OSCAR CABALERO, Special Agent, Intelligence

Division,

Irs, whose identity is

concealed at his request.

T-2 is BETTY LANDRY, Postmistress, Grand Isle, La.

I-3 is PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN, Miami, Florida.

T-4 is PCI AL DARGIS.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 12/21/61, the New Orleans Office was requested to

LoCateRED BARON, former Bureau informant in order that he could

be interviewed by the Intelligence Division re his knowledge of

MARCELLO and particularly whether he delivered funds to MARCELLO.

BARON was located at Phoenix, Arizona on 2/14/62.

The whereabouts of BARON were supplied to Mr. OSCAR CABALERO,

U.S. Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service.

On 2/14/62. CABALERO advised

JFK Law 11(a)

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

12 7/20/98 gm

I RELEASE IN PART

DI TOTAL DENIAL

B*

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32291019 Page 3

---

