# docid-32292526

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10302

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-33-383

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/04/1963

PAGES:

99

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, HORSE RACES, LIQUOR OPERATIONS,

NARCOTICS, CONFIDENCE GAMES, PROSTITUTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2A

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32292526 Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

REVIEWED BY EVJFK TASK FORCE.

ON

7/23/98 lak

NO 92-346/mh

E RELSAGE IN FULL

AT RELEASE IN PART

INFORMANTS:

• TOTAL DENIAL

NO T-1 is NO 1115-C, Bay St. Louis, Miss.

NO T-2 is NO 1017-C, Gulfport, Miss.

NO T-T iS HARRY JORDAN, Gambler and bookmaker at

Gulfport;

Miss.

NO T-10 is NO 1178-C, Gulfport, Mississippi:

NO Tw11 is JOHN E. MONTGOMERY, Special Agent,

IRS, Intelligence Unit, Gulfport, Miss.

NO T-12 is HARRY TRANSUE,.

Law Enforcement officer,

Provost Marshal's Office, KEESLER AFB,

Biloxi, Miss:

NO T-15 Is NO 1190-C, Gulfport, MississippI.

NO T-16 is C. E. VANN, Former Chief of Detectives,

Harrison County SO, and now a private investigator, Miss.

Gulf Coast®

NO T-20, is Mrs. ELIZABETH WARREN, Long Beach,

Miss, ex-wife of

SNOOKS

WARREN, Jackson, Miss.

NO T-22, 1S JAMES OTHO SLAYDON, Picayure, Miss.

NO T-23 is NO 1139-C, Picayune, Miss.

NO T-25 is GEORGE CLAIBORNE PAYNE, Detective,

Gulfport, Miss. PD.

NO T-31 is NO 983-C, Natchez, Miss:

NO T-33 is Lt. ROBERT PARKER;

Harrison County

SO, Gulfport, Miss• i

who furnished the

information

attributed to him herein on a confidential basis, after

advising he was leaving the SO to attend recruit

school

for the position of Patrolman, MHSP.

B

-383

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32292526 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-346/mh

NO I-38 1s Patrolman T. P. NAYLOR, MHSP,

Gulfport,

Miss, a graduate of the U.S. Bureau of

Narcotics School for Police Officers, Washington, D. C

NO T-41, iSNO 1187-C, Gulfport, Miss.

NO T-54 is PCI ED FULLER, Natchez, Miss.

NO T-56 is NO 1056-C, Hattiesburg, Miss.

NO T-57

is. WINDU AUTRY, Columbia, MiSS.

NO T-62 is Deputy Sheriff W. E. MOODY, Picayune,

MISS, who has requested that his identity not be divulged.

NO T-63 IS SEE JASPER L• ANGLINg PD, Bogalusa,

La, who requested his identity not be divulged.

NO T-64 15 Hon. FRANCIS HURSEX, Mayor, City of

Pass Christian, Miss.

NO T-65 is Hon. STANFORD E. MORSE, JR., attorney

and Miss. state senator for Harrison and Stone County.

NO T-66 is Chief of Detectives PAUL HALE, PD,

Gulfport, Miss.

NO T-67 is FREDERICK C. WOODS, Architect, F. C.

Woods & Association,

2102 Government Street, Mobile,

Ala., who requested his identity be kept confidential.

NO T-68 is FREDDIE MOORE, PCI, Meridian, Miss.

NO T-69 is NO 1102-C, Meridian, Miss.

NO T-70 is J. C. OLIVER, Adjustor, General

Adjustment Bureau, Laurel, Miss.

NO T-71 iS CHARLIE WEBB, Employee, Esso Service

Station, Laurel, Niss.

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32292526 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-346/mh

NO I-72 1S KENT SHOEMAKE, FOrmer DepUty

Sheriff, Jones County, Laurel, Miss.

NO I-73 iS LEONARD CAVES, Clerk, Jones

County Circuit Court, Laurel, Miss.

NO T-74 is Sgt. H. J. LADNER, Harrison County

So.

NO T-75 is ABBOTT MOORE, Cashiers Office, IRS,

301 Lamar Bldg, Jackson, MiSS.

NO T-76 is RUBY BROWN, PCI, Jackson, Miss.

NO T-77 is

NO 1091-C, Vicksburg, Miss:

NO T-78, HENRY J. RUSHING, Resident Manager,

Gulf Hills, Dude Ranch, Ocean Springs, Miss.

NO T-79 iS JAMES BENJAMIN, PCI, Columbia, Miss.

NO T-80 is B. W. ROBERTSON, PCI, Columbia, Miss®

NO T-81 is DOYLE NORWOOD MULLINS

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32292526 Page 4

---

