| NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10266 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ‘ecards Collection Act of

5 992 [44 USC 2107 Note),
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : aselt N\W 68261 Date:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| Docld:32277347 Page 1


Date : 07/08/95
Page 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10266
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS : WEBB, WILLIAM A.

HSCA

10/03/77
5

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3 . 7
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/26/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 3

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
| NW 68261
| Docld:32277347 Page 2


—

| NW 68261

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter fo) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(_ ) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthatieiog eflelaL ye initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last) ° Effective Date
William A. Webb 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

© Appointment
C Solary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee . Ci Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
- Assassinations O Leave without pay (B with effective date above and ending

close of busine:

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* Ifemoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. D1 Standing Committee: Staff—Ol Clerical or 6 Professional.
2.30 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 2%._of 29" 8 congress.
3. C1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______..Step___+___.

! certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must -
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Docld:32277347 Page 3

i
4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

" U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes -
or Ballpoint Pen) : Washington, D.C, 20515 authorztag offen) aed By the
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action: E
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date \
William A. Webb Merch 1, 1978 o |
Employee Social Security. Number Type of Action ‘
fone 1D Appointment
© Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
| Assassinetions

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) ~
Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*
Staff Counsel

$36,009
* If employee is.a civil service annuitant{includes U.S.-House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

{If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

2. @ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___.

If applicable, Level Step_.

| certify that this authorization: is not in- violation of 5 U.S.C. .31.10(b), prohibi
relatives.

Date___#&:

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees.-under the House Classification Act and for Committee .em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the: Committee on-the Budget, and. the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

n House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

ID Lelie e+e . +

Office Code... ee i

Monthly Annuity § Payroll ;
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee i

= i wn el
NW 68261 7 ~
Docld:32277347 Page 4


eb

| ra — _ ~

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S» HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

= or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ; ; Effective Date
William A. Hebb October 3, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
(Appointment
Employing Office or Committee C) Solary Adjustment
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
a

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel $28,060.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. CJ Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or (J Professional.

2. [i Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 485 __of 95tR Congress.

3. [Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level________. Step________

| certify. that this authorization is not in- violation of 5 U.S.C..-3110(b), prohibiting the employment: of
relatives. -

Date. October 71 1977

=" Gignature of Authorizing Offic

usuis Stokes

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

All .appointments.and, salary:adjustments for employees-under the House. Classification Act and: for:Committee em-' =
ployees, except those of the.Committee on Appropriations; the: Committee: on the Budget; and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee-on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 oo

Docld:32277347 Page 5



NW 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman. .

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and ‘date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

EF I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

Ve J Loe Ok
aturé of Employee Date

Docld:32277347 Page 6



| Nw 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel GAN
DATE: September 28, 1977

RE: Mr. William A. Webb

Mr. William A. Webb has accepted the position as Staff
Attorney with the Martin Luther King Task Force. His
effective starting date will be October 3, 1977, and his
starting salary will be $28,000.00 per annum.

Mr. Webb graduated from the University of Connecticut
School of Law in 1974 and for the last 2% years has served
as Assistant District Attorney for Allegheny County,
(Pittsburgh) Pennsylvania.

Your full co-operation is expected in familiarizing

Mr. Webb with staff procedures and welcoming him aboard.

ICM: 51

| Docld:32277347 Page 7

