# docid-32327849

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10090

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3960-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/24/1965

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

58262 Diate: 09-22-2022

v9.1

i NW 68262 Docld:32327849 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

NY

.92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 11/23/64, NY 3936-C advised SA WILLIAM A.

VERICKER that he had received information that SALLY BURNS

is attempting to settle some difficulties in NY for JAMES

HOFFA®

The informant advised

that he had been told that

HOFFA is in trouble with the "wise guys" in NY and if

GRANELLO Is able to settle this situation, he will be able

to obtaln anything he desires from HOFFA.

The informant was

unable to pinpoint the source of HOFFA's trouble.

The informant further stated that on 11/20/64,

BURNS met with TONY PROVENZANO in an endeavor to negotiate

some loans from the Teamsters Pension Fund. However, in

the event that any positive action is taken relative

to these

proposed

loans, PROVENZANO will not handle the loans for

GRANELLO.

The informant advised that he also received

information that on 11/13/64, BURNS was supposed to pay an

unidentitled individual in Nassau County the sum of $25,000

to "fix" the current extortion case pending against BURNS

in Nassau County, NY.

GRAVELLO was only able to raise $10,000 of this sum and

would pay off that amount of money.

ne ва то

However, the informant added that

NY 3936-C was unable

to ascertain the source of this sum of money.

In view of the sensitive nature of the afore-

mentioned data and the strong possibility. that the informant

report.

The files of the Newark Division fail to

reflect any information relative to SAM MARIA and EDWARD

COOPER.

JOSEPH LATTUCCA is the subject of the case entitled,

"UNKNOWN SUBJECTS (2); JOSEPH LATTUCCA; LOUIS PAOLINI;

WILLIAM STEWART WEATHERELL-VICTIM; ITAR-EXTORTION-CONSPIRACY",

(Newark file 166-317; NY file 166-714).

B

(COVER PAGE)

NW 68262 Docld:32327849 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

The records of the Chief Clerk's Office, NYCPD,

as made

available to SA AUGUST J.MICEK, reflected that

HOWARD J. GOLDBACH, 257-08 145th Ave.:

Rosedale, Queens,

NI, was born on 1/24/22. He was appointed to the NYCPD

on

12/12/45 and retired on 4/20/64, while assigned to

Safety Unit B. The record failed to reflect any derogatory

information.

On 1/21/65, NY 4729-PC advised SA WILLIAM A. VERICKER

that he had been told

by the son of SALLY BURNS, partner in

the Jewelry Exchange, that the "fix" on BURNS 'case in Nassau

County NY, was

to be arranged by JosEPh CARLINO, Nassau county

Republican

Leader.

However, when word of the "fix" was

circulated, BURNS was remanded on 1/20/65.

In view of the

sensitive nature and the well known

individual involved in the aforementioned situation, this

data has not been included in the details of instant report.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 4336-C-TE

Contacting Agent

SA JOHN P. HERLIHY, JR.

• SA EUGENE J. HINDES

NY T-2

Mr. JOHNJ. RYAN,

Deputy Commissioner,

NY State Liquor Authority,

270 Broadway, NYC

(due to position)

NY T-3

MM 908-PC

SA NORMAN E. BLISS

NY T-4

PCI PETER RISI

SA RICHARD WERNERSBACH

C

- COVER PAGE -

NW 68262 Docld:32327849 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS CONT'D

Identity of source

NY T-5

NY 4729-BC

NY T-6

NY 4461-C

Contacting Agent

SA WILLIAM A. VERICKER

SA PAUL G.. DURKIN

LEADS:

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA (INFORMATION)

An information copy of this repot is being furnished

to the Miami Division in view of the many associates the subject

has in that area, and his past activities in that locale.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK,

NEW JERSEY

- (INFORMATION)

An information copy of this report is being furnished

to the Newark Division in view of the current investigation

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK

1. Will continue to follow the subjects activities.

2.

Will follow closely the current prosecution against

the subject.

- COVER PAGE -

SPORT. 1009

NW 68262 Docld:32327849 Page 4

---

