Be ennedy Assassination

| c =~ ecords Collection Act of
“ 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
| ase#: NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board =
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10310
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 15

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 13

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could.

| reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

| Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32243276 Page 1


AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

ater

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

HSCA
180-10068-10310

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

HSCA

3: 11/02/76
215

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BLACKMEN, S. JONATHAN

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
Box #:1.

: PRINTED FORM
: U

: 3

: P

: 07/07/93

Date:08/20/93
Page:1

) NW 68261

Docld:32243276 Page 2

{R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORI

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE GF 'REFRESENTATIVES_) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

F i, 2 on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C.°20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
« Jonathan Blackwer 1/2/79 |
. 7 Employee Social Security Number Type of Action \
Lees]: pean |
O Solary Adjustment
7 Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
[XC Termination (At close of business on effective date)
ASasascinations C. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business eai
cil Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or 0 Professional.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b], prohibiting the employment of ~
| relatives.

1
i
i
1

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name ond title of above official) itle= if Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- |

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the-Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: ID _ |

(Revised: August 1, 1977),

NW 68261 Copy -for- Initiating Office or Committee
' Docid:32243276 Page 3 oe _ oe



7 q

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO?™: yy |

x

(Please Use Typewriter: NE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES» (Any erasures, corrections, or changes.

I
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 stanton) Initiated by the: 4

|
i

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

close of business.

i

4

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date |

1

8. Jebathan Blackwer Hovexber 1, 1978 |
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action 4

2 1 Appointment |

‘© Salary Adjustment 3

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change 4

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) i

Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending j

(If type of action is an Appointment,.Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary* a

$27,100.00

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee | =
plus the salary received from the employing office. .

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or C1 Professional.
2.

3. O Joint Committee.

Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 256_of#32& Congress.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

if applicable, Level Step_. -

| certify that this authorization. is not in violation. of 5 U.
relatives.

Chatzvaan

All appointments. and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and: for Committee em: 4
ployees, except those of. the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the. Budget, and the Joint Committees, must 4
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. j

APPROVED: Se
Chairman, Committee on House Administration |
Office of Finance use only: ID 4
Office Code... Benefits... 4
3
Monthly Annuity $ Payroll.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

| NW 68261 _
'| Docld:32243276 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

axe (Please-Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any. erasures, corrections, or changes

. on. this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

' hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | : Effective Date |
S. donathan Blackmer 5/1/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

tg) (2) 0 © Appointment
1 Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
~ close of business -)

‘Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or-Title-‘Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$25,700

If employee is a civil service annuitant {includes-U.S. House of Representatives); the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical-or 11 Professional.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an‘ Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________-___ If applicable, Level

ae Step________

| certify that this authorization is not. in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting- the employment. of
relatives. -

‘ype oF print name of Author

CHATRAAS

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees under. the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except. those of the Committee on Appropriations, the-Committee. on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

ren 11977)
Copy for Initiating Office or. Committee

| NW 68261
Docld:32243276 Page 5

3



Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
S. Jonathan Baackner April 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action
O Appointment
& Solary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee - Title Change
A - 1. Termination (At close of business on effective date)
: Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business___
Speci Bare

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM

o: (Blease*Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

A 7 on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(if type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) ”

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$13,700.90

annuitant (includes U.S: House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the aiinuity seceived by the employee
the employing office.

“lfemoloyee iso
plus the salary rect

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate’ item below.)

1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or) Professional.

3. O Joint Committee.

- (If Employee of an Officer of the House; complete item below!" °° >

Position Number! 22 2) If applicable, Level_______. Step____-__.

|. certify that this- authorization -is -notin-- violation -of 5 U'S.C,.3110(b}; prohibiting’ the employment of
relatives.

March 22

ZL SOAS =
¢ (Title~ If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees: under the House Classification Act and-for Committee em-
ployees, except-those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the-Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

“Office Code. os

= : (Revived: August 1, 1977)

NW 68261
Docld:32243276 Page 6



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM .

(Please"Use Typewriter: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ~ (Any efasures,.corrections, or changes

# i : 7 on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen): Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: : a
3
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date a4
S. doaathan Bdackmar April 1, 1978 wy
Employee Social Security Number . a Type of Action :
C1 Appointment a \
. Salary Adjustment i
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee _| © Title Change i
1 Termination (At close of business:on effective date)
: Assassinations C1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_________--__-_----------------} ) 4
Specify Date

(If type-of action is an. Appointment, Salary Adjustment; or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$13,700.99 :

* if employee is a.civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross arinual salary shown should include the anniity received by the employee
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) a

| 1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clericalor C1 Professiorial. \

2. CF special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

\--certify that this authorization is not in’ violation: of 5 U.S.C,,3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Type oF print name of Authorizing

f “__ CHAIRMAN

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and -for Conimittee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and: the Joint Committees, must u \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Choirman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID

| Office Code d

T —
| NW 68261 7
Docld:32243276 Page 7 Fi


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please-Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

F . on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
S. Jonathan Blackmer WATT
Employee Social Security Number > Type of Action ~
Cl Appointment
Employing Office or Committee iSelory Adjustment .
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff Counsel $25,700

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. F Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [7] Professional.

2

(| Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 483 ____of _S5%ACongress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an ‘Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5
relatives.

Dote._. November 7

{Type oF print nome of Authorizing Official)

Member, District and State)

eb

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act: and-for"Committee
~ ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget,-and the Joint Cofnmtinees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for:Initiating Office or Committee .

— a 2 a eat cee = — we ee

f

NW 68261
Docld:32243276 Page 8

|
i
|
1
|
i
|
|



To: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer care
From: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director & 7q
Date: November 7, 1977 io i
Re: Salary Adjustment - one year anniversary

Adjust the salaries of the following individuals as indicated H

effective November 1, 1977 |

Employee Present Salary 7.05% Increase New Salary. H

t |
Akers $24,000 $1,700 $25,700 |
Blackmer 24,000 1,700 25,700 -—~ |
Gay 36,000 2,500 38,500 i
Hess 26,000 1,800 27,800 -—~ \
McPherson 16,000 1,100 17,100 i i
Orr, Patricia 17,500 1,200 18,700 &—~ |

‘Nw 68261
| -Docld:32243276Page’9


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM =

(Please’Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any. erasures, corrections, of changes

7 ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) . : Effective Date
§. donathen Blackmer 8/1/77 _
Employee Social Security Number ~ ’ Type of Action
Cl Appointment
Employing Office or Committee CiRSolary Adjustment
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
: i

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel 24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. CD Standing Committee: Staff—[]-Clerical or [7] Professional. <

ale

2. [4] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res... of Tete Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___-______--___. If applicable, Level___- =. Step:

\ certify that: this “authorization is not in: violation: of °5 US.C: 3110(b), peep the: employment.-of
relatives.

Date__

-ployees, exceptsthose’ of the Committee-on’Appropriations; the Committee ‘onthe Budget; and the Joint Committeés;must
be approved by the:Committee on House. Administration. - wore . “ - u

APPROVED:

Office of Finance-use:only: ‘

Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Nw 68261 ~ a _
| Docld:32243276 Page 10

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under :the: House Classification Act*and: forsCommittee: em" +.



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM~ .

(Please Use Typewriter”: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ~ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i 7 ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date ° .
S.. Jonathan Blacker } 41/77 .
Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action

1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee EASolory Adjustment

D Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title . Gross Annual Salary

$18,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. LJ Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [] Professional.

2. [x] Special or Select Committee:-Authcrity—H. Res.

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) /

Position Number.

If applicable; Level______- - Step__- <2.

| certify that this authorization is- not. in. violation *of.:5+ U.S.C.,3110(b), prohibitingthe émployment of. *

relatives.

© Gignature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

‘All appointments-and salary adjustments-for-employees” under the: House ‘Classification “Act and for: Committeé“em:
:ployees, except: those of the Committee-on Approptiations, the’Committee ‘onthe Budget;and- ie Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration. eee. yo oe,
APPROVED:.__
Office of Finance’ use only: 2
Office Code.___-_-____ gh
vo
Monthly Annuity $_.____.___.00.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Nw 68261 ae _.
Docld:32243276 Page 11 :

i
4

ar



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION -FORM

(Please Use Typewriter.
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

S. Jonathan Blackmer

ali?

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

(igSalory Adjustment

: Assassinations

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$38,200

1
2.

3.

relatives.

Position Number.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or [) Professional.

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.. &

~] Joint Committee.

APPROVED:.

f applicable, Level

|. certify that this. authorization is not in violation

of _95£h Congress.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Signature of Authorizing Official

a”
Louis Stokes

All appointments.and-salary adjustments for employees under the House -Classification Act and for Committee em-
x Ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee: on the:Budget,-and the-Joint-Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

a

tw 68261

| Docld:32243276 Page 12

i]
4
|
|

}
i
i



rm

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ® »(Any-erasures, corrections, or changes

| q on this form must be ‘initialed ‘by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) - ‘ “Effective Date
S. Jonathan Blackmer 2-1-7
Employee Social Security Number =. ~ - Type of Action

(1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee v2 4 Salary Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$11,070.

Battin dali

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. LJ Standing Committee: Staff—L] Clerical or (J Professional.
n

2. L] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [1] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an‘ Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. _:If applicable, Level

sl -certify that: this. authorization “is - notin» violation - of “5: U:S.C.: 3110(b), prohibiting the: employment’ of
relatives.

Sarg age Ahora Offi

Henry B. Genzalez

Chairman

{Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

a aia ce

All appointments: dnd salary adjustments for employee's under-the House. Classification. Act and’ for -Commiitiée. em-=
~ployees, excep! those:of the Committee’on: Appropriations, the Committee on the Budgets Gnd the-Joint Commies must
be approved by the.Committee on House: Administration. >

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

NW 68261 oo : .
Docld:32243276 Page 13



| PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM : ‘ . .

(Please-Use Typewriter ©. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES _ > (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 “thie form aust a initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| | hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) 5 7 Effective Date

r

Employee Social Security Number ~ Type of Action

Cl Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ©) Salary Adjustment

C Termination {At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

| (If type of action is av Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) -

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.1) Standing Committee: Staff—L] Clerical or] Professional.

2. [1] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res!

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level__:_____ Step

| certify that this authorization’.is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under. the House Classification: Act.and: for Committee em:
-» © -ployees, except thosecof the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the. Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

Copy fof Initiating Office or Committee

') NW 68261 a
'| Docld:32243276 Page 14 ;

ha : a — 6 es



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. oo

i (Please Use Typewriter” .\_’ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES \_- (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 Sea ne offend Se netee by tne”

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date

Employee Social Security Number c » Type of Action

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ~ Salary Adjustment

CO Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete thé following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Counsel

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [ Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical of [] Professional. i |

| 2. [ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. ! of 242" Congress : ‘ a \
3. C1 Joint'Committee. . i

-(F Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) jon
|

Position. Number. If dpplicable, Level

|. certify that this authorization is notin. violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.‘

Date_

- Alk appointments and salary adjustments for.employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em:
ployees, except those’ of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the-Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code i ; y

Monthly Annuity $____

a

Nw 68261
Docld:32243276 Page 15



(rie: ‘y
Washington, D.C. 20515

or Ballpoint Pen)

Dns iim must be initialed by the
ro-gutarizng offical)

Ane

{
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: ee eS

"Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date _

Sidney Jonathan Cole Blackmer November 2, 1976 x
Employee Social Security Number _ Type of Action

Hl Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ~| Gi Solory Adjustment

| . . ; (1 Termination (At close of busi
| Select Committee on Assassinations

ss on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Josef Position Title [ Gross Annual Salary
Staff counsel $15,000.
|
(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) Ul. “5 15 AN 9: 4?
1. C0 Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or [J Professional. Hor R, FINANCE 9¢Fics

2. (3 Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. L.
3. [1] Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) He -5 78
-O 75 fA 8:3)

Position Number_._____--------. If applicable, Level... Step.

1 certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C.

{Type or print name of authorizing Officiel)

Hoe R, FINANCE Office
(b), prohibiting the. employment of

\

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be. approved by the Committee on House Administration. i

5 APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

NW-682612
Docld:3224323


C CO

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
| - DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law |

mother niece sister-in-law |

son husband stepfather Pvt)

daughter wife stepmother, “ |

“, brother father-in-law stepbrother |

sister mother-inlaw stepsister |

| uncle son-in-law half-brother |
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |

|

first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related

| I.am related by

oy

| NW 68261 To oe
Docld:32243276 Page 17

