# docid-32331448

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90097-10070

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-637-91

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/30/1964

PAGES:

67

SUBJECTS:

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331448 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

BA 166-63

-C-

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The period date of 4/30/64 preceeds the date of the last

report as this was investigation conducted by an auxiliary

office

l, was not available to

• be inserted in previous

report.

INFORMANTS

BACS 2 advised on 5/5/64 that a check of toll calls

charged to MA 2-0019 listed to RICHARD I. SMITH, 14006

Colesville Road, Silver Spring, Maryland, and 949-9068

a telephone listed to MARTIN J. WIRES, 3920 Minden Road,

Wheaton, Maryland, reflects that no calls have been charged

to either of these telephones during the past 2 months.

No toll calls were located for May and June 1963, however,

this source advised these records may have been destroyed.

on 6/15/64 BA 1267-C advised SA GERARD R. LOWE that subject

NESTINE had contacted PHILIP E AGRAY, slot distributor in

Southern Maryland, and NESLINE and GRAY had a disagreement

concerning CRAY's hesitancy and refusal to reimburse NESLINE

for the work NESLINE had performed on the property owned by

GRAY, namely the casino located behind the Sportsmen's

Club Restaurant in Charlotte Hall, Md. NESLINE demanded

that GRAY pay him the cost of improving this establishment.

Informant further advised that NESLINE had indicated

to BEITY MORETTI, a long-time frind of NESLINE and currently

the operator of the Hickory House Restaurant in Lexington

Park, Maryland, that he, NESLINE, was trying to set up crap

games

in Washington, D.C. during

the period that he was

awaiting his wife's death.

On 6/15 and 7/17/64 informant advised she learred that

NESLINE anticipated taking up gambling activities with his

associates,

presumably CHARLES TOURINE, in Florida, upon

the death of his wife which was considered imminent.

WFO letter to Miami 6/30/64 advised as follows:

Information concerning the below listed telephone numbers

was obtained from Mr. BRIT ARMSIRONG (protect), Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., Hialeah, Florida:

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331448 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BA 166-63

887-2350

685-3441

MU 1-7613

MU 1-7134

Information concerning the below listed telephone numbers

was obtained from Mr.

ALEXANDER KOCH (protect), Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, Miami Beach, Florida:

865-2745

865-3062

UN 5-3401

UN 5-2061

865-2767

854-2715

UN 5-3420

865-3443

865-3431

864-1741

865-2359-9

JE 8-6631

866-8991

on 6/2/64 PCI TURNER TYPON stated that EUGENE CORSI

will be moving from apartment 232 to 224 at the Beau

Gardens Apartments in several days.

Informant said

that the former apartment was a complete moss and had several

cigarette holes in the rug.

On 6/5/64 informant said CORSI had moved from 232 to 224.

He continued stating that in examination of the old

apartment he found two telephones with one extension in

the bedroom.

He said these

telephones were apparently

disconnected.

The informant also found numerous newspapers,

race forms and tip sheets through the apartment.

In regard to CORSI, informant said that a white male, slender

in build and Italian looking visits CORSI on occasion but

he never uses the elevator in order to get to his apartment.

on 6/22/64 informant made a routine check of CORSI's present

apartment at 224.

He reported that a slip of yellow paper

was found on the dining room table and it appeared to the

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331448 Page 3

---

