# docid-32560478

## Page 1

7H 92-444

T-1

I -2

T-4

P-5

T-6

T-7

T-8

I-9

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION

Informants

Captain WILLIAM MC GOWAN,

Philacolphia Police Department,

Ito SA, JOHN. L. ADAMS, 10/8/58.

"name protected at his roquost.) i

results of trash cover residence

Of VICTOR CALAMARO, 1736 Ritner

Strect, obtained by SE ALBERT E.

CUICK, 9/26/58.

MiSS THERESA DOUGHENTY, 3e11

Telephone Company, thiladelphia,

to SE E. DAVIS PORTER, 9/10/58.

Unidentified Confidential Source,

Bell l'elephone Company; Becford,

Mass., on undisclosed date.

BS 616-0, to undisclosed Agent

on unmentioned date.

BS 758-0, to undisclosed Agont

in November 1957.

JOHN VERICA, Sr., next door

neighbor to VICTOR CALAMARO,

SA JOSEPH A. VERICA, On

9/18/58 (name protocted duo to

relationship.

PCI ANGELO FRED PAPALEO to

SA MAHLON J. PRICA, 9/18/58.

PH 418-C to SA J. ROBERT PEARCE,

9/15/58.

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION

. - 16 -

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW 68262 Date:

09-22-2022

NW 68262 Docld:32560478 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

1-10

T-11

I-12

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION (CONT.)

MORRIS KOVLER, tO SA J. ROBERT

PEACE, 9/15: 10/4/58.

Philadelphia Police Officor

LELAND RULIGLIANO,

SA J.

ROBERT PEARCE, 10/20/58.

(name protected at his request).

PH 514-C, to SA J. ROBERT

PEACE, 9/15/58.

PH 251-0

PH 269-C

PH 467-C

Criminal Informant Coverage

Informant for many years closely

associated

and acquainted

with

most of the Philadolphia

Top Hoodlums.

Has furnished reliable.infor-

mation over ten year period on a monthly

basis..

Iresent valuo limited due to infor

mant's poor health.

Has identified

. BRUNO'S

associates and illogal activities.

Informant closely associated with subject.

Journeyed!

to Miami, fla.9

with BRUNO and

scheduled

to act as DRUNC's advisor in con-

tomplated

trash collection contract, Dade

County, Fla

Has furnished information on

Location BrUNc's numbers banks, BRUNC's

racket employees and associatos, as woll as

criminal activity. Furnishos information

weekly basis.

A numbers writer and pickup man in south

Philadelphia.

Knows BRUNe and other Top

Hoodlums.

Frequents some of their known

hangouts.

Has furnished information n

BRUNo's method of operation in numbers and

gambling, and recent criminal activities.

Contacted

on a monthly basis.

ADMINISIRATIVE SECTION (CONT.)

- 17 -

NW 68262 Docld:32560478 Page 2

---

## Page 3

21 92-444

PH 514-C

TH 517-0

PH 518-0

PH 489-0

PH 30-0

PH 515-C

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION (CONT.)

I tIpstalI in adelphia County Courts,

member of a well-known family connected

with illicit alcohol. Informant's brother,

currently partner of philadolphia

FELIX DE TULLIO in still

operation.

Informant believes BAUNO

responsible for murder of anothor brother,

NAiSHALL, and Is

willing to furnish infor-

mation.

Identified BRUNO's associates and

criminal activities and movements on a

daily basis.

A numbers writer formerly associated with

DOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia Top Hoodlum,

in illicit alcohol. Close friend of numbers

runner employed by PHILlY TEStA, BruNo's

lieutenant.

Furnishes information on a

weekly basis regarding BRUNO's movements,

associates, and activities.

Local prostitute

with extensive arrest

record.

Arrested with philadelphia Top

Hoodlum PETER CASELLA December 1957.

Deceased husband was actively engaged in

numbers activity. Knows identity of

individuals in numbers racket connected with

BRUNO.

Has furnished extensive information

persons involved in narcotics traffickingand

those engaging in illicit alochol. Contact

almost on a daily basis.

Numbers writer and bootlegger with many local

connections.

Has furnished information on

subject's activities and associates.

Contacted

on a weekly basis.

Can furnish daily information regarding

movements, associates, and activities

Philadelphia Top Hoodlums WEISBERG ane HOFFMAN.

ADMINISTRATIVE SECIION (CONI.)

- 18 -

NW 68262 Docld:32560478 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION (CONT.)

PH 92-444

PH 30-0

PH 515-C

(Cont.)

PCI JULIUS GOLDBENG

Believed currently interestod in operation

of horse books for subject's south Phila-

colphia arca

PCI MORRIS KOVLEN

Engaged in racket activity

in Philadelphia.

Connocted with

ihiladelphia top Hoodlums WILLIE

WEISBERG and CAPPY HOFFVAN.

Acquainted with most of racket

element in Philadelphia.

Old-time bootlegger and gambler

Acguainted with most of the

Philadelphia Iop Hondlums. Knows

subject.

....

PCI MORIS FEINBURG

PCI ROSE ROSETTI

PCI ELIZABETH ROSETTI

Formerly inactive informant,

reopened since he personally knows

subject and has previously furnished

information on him.

Formerly employed as waitress by

DOMINICK SPALAGNO, Philadelphia.

Personally acquainted with FELIX

• tubbo, thiladelphia.

Brother

Of ANTHONY PETRONE, local boot-

legger. Has known

BRUNO and

BlUNd's family all her life.

Boy friend JOHN FUSCO local

numbers banker:

Through this

association well acquainted with

Local racket element.

Personally

acquainted with SANTORE brothers,

one of whom (JAMES) arrested with

PETER CASELLA, Philadelphia; lives

lose to and knows BRUNO.

BECAUJE BRUNO IS ALLEGED TO HAVE COMMITTED GANGLAND

EXECUTIONS IN THE PASI, HE SHOULD BI CONSIDERED DANGERCUS.

- 19-

ADMINISIR TIVE SECTION (CONT.)

NW 68262 Docid:32560478 Page 4

---

