# docid-32338231

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90141-10027

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-92413-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/25/1960

3

QUINTIN PINO MACHADO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Seeret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

Heleased under the John F. Kenned,

assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58252 Date: 09-22-2022

V9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32338231 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

SECRET

11/26/60

3-6-97

CLASSINED BY

1600 SLASK

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, WEO (205-36444)

FELIPE MARTINEZ RIVERO

IS - CUBA

(00: WEO)

5p8 MACKSe

Classtfied by ar

6-131

BY TFIONA

SPEBTALGEL

Declassity on: 0ADR/0%0 85

05 RMB /KSR

5-23.94

ReWrOniztel, with enclosures, 11/22/60.

on 11/34/60, WE 1133-89

advised that subject contactec

DE, ARMANDO FLORAL, Cubid Charge d' Affairos od Interin, from

Baltimore, Maryland, to advise thar he nad agreed to meet and

talks with

Ambassador QUINTiN PINO MACHADO and DIMAS CID, CubaD

Attache, at 5:30 p.m., oa II/24/60, in Baltimore.

arrival

at the appointed place.

the office

of the physielan brother

01

his fiancee (DIANA LUZ BERRIOS) , MARTINEZ found a note left

by PINO indicating that the latter and DIMAS CID had been there

but had departed since subject had failed to make an appearance.

MACHADO indicated to FLORIZ that he was very interested in

speaking with these

"two comrades" and asked FlOREa to tell

then to call him on the night of 11/24/60 or on 11/25/60, at the

telephone numbex AT 8-3135 in

i Baltimore.

In discussion with

Flores, the latter conmented to subject that everybody else

at the Cuban Imbassy, including FLOREZ, hinsell, are

"comrades"

Bureau

2= Baltimoro (Info) (RM)

(2- 205-4784)

ALL IUFURMATIOR SONm

1- Miami (Into) (RU)

FILED

ORIGINAL

I. New.

York (Info) (RM)

3TE* WHERE SHOWE

1- WEO

ANS

GCO: sab/ dab

(8)

PAGE 18 &LASS12

BALESS MEATIO

VIENNESE

1105-92413

NOT RECORDED

180 DEG_Đ.1960;

SECRET

NW 68262 Docld:32338231 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"SECRET!

100-36469

os the

subject

BLOBEE

sumished

the revolution.

According to tho Lozommant,

tho above infoznation fron the subicot to

Commander J0B2 HOLDON CARNERA, Cuban Military and Air Attache,

and notifted MOLDON of the telephone numbes to Baltinore,

where

MARTINES could

• be

0a 11/25/60,

wE 1134-39 advised that the subject vas

physically present

the presises occupied by tho Cuban Babass

Washington,

Do.

C.

The above informant advisod further

that

recervations vore made for the subject and JOUE. MOLEON

to

leave

Washington Intionnl Alrport at 12:20 D.t.,

on 11/25/60, for

Nex

York,

That flight une due to nrsave thore at

1:40 D.D.

" intert avised father that reservations

DORG

made

• for the above

individaole to leavo

Hey Tosk,

Lavage,

Cuba y

os cubang

Alzlines flight Leaving

Idlevize

Aleport at 3:30 D.T.j on 12/25/60.

C 31/25/60,

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

(Pet; shoco idontity mint bo

protected and who should be

obaracterined as hiving turnched sellable intornat ion in

tho pass)

telephonically advised SA GERARD G. CARROL that

subject gos precent at the Babaooy of Cabe during the morning

of 11/25/60, 3a the ottice of FLORa.

He was vialted ons

presumably questioned in this ostico by Fuelz,

BOLTON, CID,

PiNG and en unidontitled friend of 2110.

According to PSI,

11/25/60•

F&Z

In the office of FloREd at 13:30 D.Cie,

advisod that MOLsON left the mooting with

NART ENGE

mid-norning and reportedly was leavins

Immediately fos

• havena,

Cuba.

Pot stated

Cant DiAls

Berlos,

subjeet's cirl

triend,

telephonionly contacted MANTIll at the Cuban Enbassy

during the corty morning of 11/25/60, end later personaily

vàalted

the Cuban Imbassy at appzozinately 11:00 or

According to the above

desosibed

recorder gas

Pa1,

brought into blond's room during

of the cubject and FLOREZ had callod CLADYS

the interrogation

BANORA,

Bocretary

10 tho

• 0121cc of the Cuban 1W21tary and A1& Attache, to asoist

hán in She nechontent operation of this nachine.

SCry 11a3-sq leubsequently

• loaracd on 11/35/80, that

PIRO

tactso, previcusty mentioned,

in reporting to Ambasendor

CARLOS LACHUGS

tho rosuits o. segotiations at the Brinesy

Cuba vith

i MARTINE during the morning of 11/35/60, stated

WESS MEAN

SCORET

NW 68262 Docld:32338231 Page 3

---

