# docid-32305308

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Heleased under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992(44 05C 2107 Note].

Pase#:NW 68262 Date:

09-22-2022

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date:

DEC 1 2 1966

(Type in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority).

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-1474)

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

- MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

IN - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

00: Miami

Waltell

-39

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSITILD

DATE 3/90 85

BYSFEBTAI

Re Bureau airtel to Miami and New York

хобомєт

Approved:

12/2/66.

Enclosed for the Bureau are ll copies of

LHM dated and captioned as above.

Copies are being disseminated locally to

the following agencies:

U.S. Border Patrol; U.S. Customs; U.S. Customs,

Region II; INS; U.S. Coast Guard; CIA; Office of

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Department of State,

all Miami; U.S. Customs, Key West, Fla.; NISO,

charleston, S.C.; G-2,

Robins AFB, Ga.; and USAFAD, Miami Springs, Fla.;

and

to FAA and Secret Ser

ce,.

Miami.

Bureau

RED REG 39

- New York (RM)

Enc. 1

2 - Miami (1 - 105-2855)

In eX 187-4474-324

(1 - 105-7054)

• (Comandos L)

JJO: s1

DEG 13-1960

Robert Sternan

CIA/State/RAO /DIATFAL

Coordinetire Cuten Affairs. Stal

C 1691969

ONI/OSI/ACSI/Cast sied/ustoms

slip for info.

Date 12/44/46

LATIN-ANNICAN

Sent -

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 68262 Docld:32305308 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2855

MM T-1 is MM 492-S.

MM T-2 is LUIS POSADA, 2635 Southwest 4oth Court,

Miami,

Morida, identity concealed by request.

The file on captioned case remains pending in

the Miami

Office inasmuch

as the MIRR is an active

organization; however, no further investigation relating

to the lost plane or the alleged infiltration at Gibara,

Cuba, is being conducted.

One copy of LHM is enclosed for New York.

NW 68262 Docld:32305308 Page 2

---

## Page 3

RE: MOVIMIENTO INSURPECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

lost plane. She recalled that the registration number of

the plane contained the numerals 37 or 47.

Mrs. GUTIERREZ stated she was aware of the

recent news relesse by the MIRR concerning the three

members of the MIRR and Comandos I who were reportedly

captured in Oriente Province, Cuba.

She stated that

although she knew several members of the MIRR and had

heard the names of others mentioned in conversation at

her house, she had never heard of the three individuals who

were reportedly captured in Oriente Province:

On December 7, 1966, MM Tel, a former Cuban

official now resident of Miami, who keeps closely informed

of news reports emanating from

Cuba, advised that Cuban

radio stations have made no mention

of the capture of

three infiltrators in Oriente Province as announced by

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH of the MIRR. He pointed out that the

Cuban radio had announced the

airplane attack on the

chemical plant at Matanzas on November 13, 1966, which

mission was subsequently announced by ORLANDO BOSCH at

Miami.

On December 7, 1966, MM To, a Cuban exile at

Miami active an anti-CAsTRO organizations, advised that

no one that he or his associates had spoken to seemed to

know the three

Individuals who were identitied in the

press release by the MIRR as captured in oriente Province.

He stated that consensus of opinion is that this press

release is a fictitious story by BOSCH or at the very least

the three names furnished by BOSCH

are not correct names.

With respect to the aerial mission by the MIRR

on the chemical plant at Matanzas:

on November

13,_1966,

Mr. I. I. PROBST, Lally Adjustment Bureau, Miami,

Florida,

advised on November 26, 1966 that his firm was in the

process of settling an

insurance claim made by the

Gateway Corporation of Jacksonville,

Florida, for the loss

of a Piper Aztec aircraft, a two engine, plane, valued at

4

NW 68262 Docld:32305308 Page 3

---

