1

| NW 68261

ennedy Assassination of
ecords Collection Act of oe

992 (44 USC 2107 Note),
‘asett:NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10499
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 9

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| Docld:32239507 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

HSCA
180-10060-10499

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE

DATE : 11/01/77
PAGES : 9

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
PONDER, MARY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

. COMMENTS :
Box: 2.

({R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 68261
Docld:32239507 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO""4 :

(Please Use Typewriter “=” U.S. HOUSE ‘OF epresenranives-2 (Any. erasures, corrections, or changes

i ji ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Mary Elizabeth Ponder 3/8/78
L Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
: ~ > Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)
Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business

{If type of action is an Appointment; Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual solary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.

2. 879

3
Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. of OB nress,

3. C1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___-______-__.. If applicable, Level________ Step_______.

|-certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibitin
relatives. se os

Date______*

Wignoture of Authorizing Officiol)

LOUIS STOKES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

as of _

Copy for Initiating Office-or. Committee

| NW 68261 ee
Docld:32239507 Page 3

eh eho oun tina actin ie tld Aaa il te

4



MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

DATE: 7 March 1978

RE: Termination

contact me at your convenience.

ICM: 4

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel 1 Coe .

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please

FT arwumalion Kite s 1 fh e ~

Please be advised that effective Friday, March 3, 1978,

Mary E. Ponder will be terminated from the Committee payroll.

Docld:32239507 Page 4

| uw 68261 a


NENERRN

C

PONDER,. Mary

poune cate Aer a cemented

Rime of Emaloyee

cme CC

O

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: QALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARO FROM

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD , ; pu aeeenae

L49LE
isnt wren ninL Lao Kinane
Audrass YEAR :
ANNUAL LEAVE - : , :
Phone Number CATEGORY
Ww i
nen re
Position Title 13 oO
eres mmc rortraeraen Tenn
ACCRUED AVAILABLE USED pance
THIS HONTH THIS MONTH THs MONTH pa 3
|__| _—_—_—, ee
Annust | Sik | Annut | Sick | Anaual Sick | 32
ve} Leave | Leave | Leave } Leave | Leave Leave
10 (fei niet (A
706 . yA 70
[_———} |__| Ae Eig
|__|} ————— cata bees
(eeesesoeir betas ci
June 7
July
a |__|
Au.
Sept,
posasasttae | ne Se Se Leon
Oct.
Nov. oa :
eee Pes Ce enV basa
Oee, 5
tt ae ann ee Annee Seen Sen)

= 0.5 day annual leave
== 10 day annual leave
= 0.5 day sick leave

or EAE 1.0 day sick leave

= 0,5 day administrative leave

= 1.0 day administrative leave
= 0,5 day unauthorized absence

10 day unauthorized absence

or (¥6]

= 0.5 day leave without pay
we 1.0 day leave without pay

crn ier iments meno aL,

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employeo's Signature | Oute Chist’s Signature i Date
(Ht employee refuses to sign, state reason below.? ie .
Approved: - :
Clerk of the House Dato

This record. will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case ‘of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder, -



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM :

(Please Use Typewriter U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

| . 7 ‘on this form must be initialed by the Ay
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) 4

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name.(First-Middle-Last)
Mary &

Effective Date mI
zabeth Ponder Decesher 1, 1997 i

i
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action Fal :
O Appointment a 1
TER salary Adjustment ;
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change a
1 C Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)
fssassinations

Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business.

(If type of action is‘an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*
Seeretary $18,000
* If emoloyee is'a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House.of Represéntatives), the gross annual salary shown should include-the annuity received by the employee
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.

Sof 22 congress.
3. O Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number______--_-_§- If applicable, Level_______ Step___-
! certify that this authorization is not in’ violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. ene

(cee aah

ments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em:

Ployees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the: Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._
eb
Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.________._ Benefits __-_---__---------____
Monthly Annuity $________:_00 as of Payroll _
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee mee em wm

i . _ —— —————— ; -
| NW 6826° ~

| Docld:32239507 Page 6


1

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM :
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 sr erine affine” initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ; Effective Date
Mary Elizabeth Ponder 5/1/77
Employee Social Security Number a " Type of Action

CO Appointment

Employing Office or Committee 3G Solory Adjustment

Assassinations (Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$14,060

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical or (J Professional.

2.

3]

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item. below.)

Position Number__ If applicable, Level

| certify ‘that this authorization -is not in violation of 5- U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting. the employment of
relatives. = =

(Signature of Authorizing Official

Louis Stokes

- . a {Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairean

If Member, District ond Store)

+ s+.» All appointments and salary-adjustments for employees under-the House-Classification Act and for:Committee em-

ployees,, except. those :of .the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee: on. the Budget, and the-Joint Committees; must
be approved by. the Committee.on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance. use only:

Office Code... 4 |

NW 68261 oo
'| Docld:32239507 Page 7

qi eNs



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION.. FORM

~s.7e4(Pleasé Use-Typewriter > -U:S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES > (Any erasures, corrections, or changes-

‘i : i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To- the Clerk of.the House of Representatives:. .

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) « Effective Date : |

Mary Elizabeth Ponder 4aflf77 |
Employee Social Security'Number Type of Action a
C1 Appointment 4
Employing Office or Committee EaSolary Adjustment |
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
4
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following -information:) |
4
4
Position Title Gross Annual Salary {
$26,000 4
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) |
1. ( Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [1 Professional. ‘
2. [& Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res... 465. of SEN_Congress. |
|
3. [1 Joint Committee. 7
4
(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)- 7 ans
| wd
Position Number__- = \f applicable, Level. ____-_. Step____ |
3
= I certifythat this authorization’ is not: in’ violation “of: 5. U.S.C... 3110(b), prohibiting: the employment of- °°
relatives. ~ 2 Se . ‘
i
z
FI
|
| ,
All appointments. and-salary-adjustments foremployees under the House Classification Act and for Committee ei |

sployees, except those of the:Committee’on-Appropriations, the Committee: onthe ‘Budget, and thé Joint: Committees;- must
be approved bythe Committee on House Administration. ae ars .

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.__._--____

oa
§
so
3
=
z
=
8
2
&é
S
=
8
8
a
§
3
3
a
Fi
8
Visca

———

|) NW 6826:
Docld:32239507 Page 8



GPO : 1978 0 - 512258,

| PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

| “5[Please Use Typewriter U.S.. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, correcti is, or changes

aa 7 a 7 ‘on this form must be initialed: bys the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing ffital.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

thereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date 4
Mary E. C, Ponder 377 ‘
Employee Social Security Number . . Type of Action :

BE D onc] ©) Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ae 9 Solery Adjustment aed 4

Select Conmttee on Assassinations [Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is. an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) : i

Position Title ie ‘*. Gross Annual Salaty

(If Committee. Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. E) Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical-or (J Professional.

ee 2.4) Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 4 wiles ofgg Congress.

3. (Joint Committee... ee : fe

“I certify “that “this authorization is not in vigletion: of ie 9. WS.C- 3110(b), prohibi ing. the employment of
‘relatives. F

_ APPROVED::..

‘Office’of Finance us6:only:
Office Code.

Docld:32239507 Page “Copy for Initiating Office'or Committee


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter Ln _U:! §. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES - (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

A on this form. must be initialed by the
| - or Ballpoint Pen) . Washington, D:C. 20515 7 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: . . . |

thereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date

i

ry E. £. Pander UT? ; i
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action ;
7 Appointment . . H

Employing Office or Committee 0 Salary Adjustment B ~ ! |

CH Termination (At close of business on effective date)

| (If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the.following information.) |

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Adninistewative Assistant $14,000 as

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [) Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical of [J Professional.

2. ©] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 1540 __ of #48 Congress \
' \
3. [1 Joint Committee. ;
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) ” ; a
| Position Number... If applicable, Level_______. Step_______

|. certify. that this authorization is. not in violation of 5 U.S.C. -3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

All appointments and salary.adjustments for employees under the Housé Classification. Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those: of the Committee on Appropriations, the-Committee on the Budget, and the Join Committees;-must
bé approved by the Committee on House Administration:

APPROVED:..

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

aot oo oe ena ———
|| NW 68261 oe
| Docld:32239507 Page 10



MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

first cousin

father nephew brother-in-law | ‘
mother niece sister-in-law \
son husband stepfather | \
" daughter wife stepmother |
“, brother father-in-law stepbrother |
sister mother-inlaw stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother | a
aunt daughter-in-law — half-sister |

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

| - Approved
Richard A. Sprague

| I am not related Meakedp |
| °I am related by the folffowing relatfonship
|

Signatjhre of Employee Date

NW 68261 _ ae = =
Docid:32239507 Page 11 :

