# docid-32295890

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10216-10166

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2713-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

BOGGAN, FURMAN G.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/10/1960

PAGES:

56

SUBJECTS :

Restricted

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collechion Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09.22.2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32295890 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Repart F

FD 263(5

D...

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEW ORLEANS

Office of Origin

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

CARLOS MARCELLO, Aka.

Calegero Minacore; Carlos Junior

Marcello, Carlos Marcella,

Cabreo Minacore, Carlos M.

Minacori, "The Little Man"

Date

9/10/60

Investigative Period

9/6-9/60

Report made by

FURMAN G. BOGGAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

•ANT I -RACKETEER ING

Typed By:

wib/

dfs

REFERENCES:

Bureau airtel to Albany, 8/25/60.

Report of SA REGIS L. KENNEDY, New Orleans, 6/30/60.

LEADS:

No leads are being set out in this report in view of in-

structions contained in reBuairtel to Albany dated 8/25/60.

INFORMANTS:

* T=1 - BEN

PI:

SHEAR, former New Orleans PCI, a close

personal acquaintance of subject.

T-2 - Former PCI PETER

SASI, a New Orleans hoodlum of

unknown reliability, believed at

ones time

to be an associate of

MARCELLO'S.

Approved

Copies made:

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

92-2713-68

REC- 56

- Bureau (92-2713)

2 - New Orleans. (92-36)

012 de synapsis 4 Mp. 1 to mind

9/19/45

3 3511

1.t0

SEP 18 1950

IEC 4710

4376

1KA52:10*

T*=A

BFG COVER

57 SEP 2 3 1960

PAGE

Property of FBI -.This report is loaned

to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

R U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1885 0 844750

NW 68262 Docld:32295890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36/dfs

T=3

- PCI RAYMOND ROLLING; a handbook operator in

Jefferson

Parish, La. and a brother of Capt. EARL ROLLING,

Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office.

T-4

- Federal Income Tax Returns of CARLOS MARCELLO,

supplied to the New Orleans Office by the Bureau, 4/7/58.

- Former CI ALBERT PILSBURY, a professional

gambler who operated in Jefferson Parish, La. at the time he

furnished information to this office.

T-6 - RICHARD "PAT" GILLEN, Jefferson Parish handbook

operator and barroom operator:

T-7

- CHESTER A. USRY, District Director, Internal

Revenue Service, U. S. Treasury Dept., New Orleans.

- Miss CAROL HUBER, who when contacted in

November, 1948, was an employee of the Beverly Country Club.

T-9 - PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN, Public Relations Consultant

for PHILIP FRANK KASTEL, presently the operator of the Beverly

Country Club.

T-10 - PHILIP FRANK KASTEL, connected with the

management and operation of the Beverly Country Club, throughout

its history.

T-11 - Mrs. HAYDEE BROWNING, Secretary, Chief,

Occupational License Division, Department of Revenue, Baton

Rouge, La.

T-12 - AARON KOHN, Managing Director, Metropolitan

Crime Commission of New Orleans, Inc., and a former agent of

the FBI.

T-13 - ERNEST BALMISANO, PCI, Shreveport, La.,

bartender.

T-14 - MURPH HARROLD, PCI, Shreveport, La., a hand-

book operator.

IN T-15 -

RICHARD C. BALDWIN, Attorney for the LeBaron

Former Assistant U. S. Attorney, who requested

his identity

not

be

revealed.

ON

1/20/48 gm

B

RELEADE IN GULL

RELEASE IN PART

COVER PAGE

I7 TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32295890 Page 3

---

