# docid-32337242

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10008

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-103840-10

64578 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/24/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32337242 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

r.

aL..

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-103840)

DATE: 1/24/62

SAY O SAC, MAN (105-GON)TAN SECIET

CHANGED:

HIS DOCUMUNT.

KP 11-149

OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

(00: MIAMI)

Classifed

51015(9854/9 (TA)

Declassin, 1221

CADR

ALI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

LASSIFIED EXCEPT

OTHERWISE..

HEREIN IS UN

WHERE SHO

"OLGA DIAZ; IS - CUBA"

1913-97 (JFK)..

the title of this case is mated changed in order

to reflect subject's complete name as OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ.

On January 22, 1962, PSI ANTONIO DE LA MATAS

BUJOSA (protect), Miami, Florida, a Cuban refugee who

7

maintains contact with anti-FIDEL CASTRO elements in Cuba

and who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised that on January 20, 1962, he had a telephore conversation

with members of his family in Havana, Cuba. DE LAS MATAS

also advised that OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ is still employed as

a clerk in the files of Cuban G-2, Havana, Cuba, and that

she is considering seeking political asylum in the U. S.

in the event it is possible for her to arrange for clan-

destine transportation to the U. S.

PSI stated that legal

transportation (via established airlines) from Havana,

Cuba, to U.S, for her is impossible, inasmuch as she does

not have a permit from the local police in Havana to leave

the country, and efforts to obtain a visa waiver for her

would only make it known to the authorities that she is

considering defectig.

1.=0 115.

Bureau (RM)

NCT - 43.

105-10384010

1 - Washington Field Office (In'fo) (RM)

3 - Miami (1 - 105-4811)

bE0.0

(1 - 134-691)

17 JAN 29

1962

(1 - 134-539)

WGF :bna

LE8 1 2 33 6M.85

"Ler cine

1 mi

2-6-62

SEORE

Rocilaw

NA

MAS- 16003

NW 64578 Docld:32337242 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ELA

MM 105-4811

SECRET

PSH further stated that OLGA DIAL iS the

daughter

of FRANCISCO DIAZ and ANA MARIA, SUAREZ PENA.

She was born

in Regla, Cuba! PSI further stated that

ADian, in the U.SiA., but that her sister,

ONDINA ISABEL

SUAREZ, has been in the U.S.A. and was active in the

26th of July Movement in the Miami area and New York.

2221-4

+-.:

+-sha5751-7990-181

-...

On January 20, 1962, PSI JUAN MACHADO, Miami, Florida,

a Cuban exile residing in Miami, Florida (protect), who

maintains contact with pro and anti-FIDEL CASTRO elements

in Cuba and in Miami, Florida, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised that in a communication

which he has received from his family, he has learned that

OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ has recently moved from her former

residence in Regla, Cuba, and that her present residence

is not known. DIAZ is still employed by Cuban G-2, and

chere are no indications that she has been under suspicion

subject to arrest.

The communication to PSI intimated

that attempts are being made by DIAZ to obtain transporation

via a fishing vessel from Havana, Cuba, to the U.S.A.

PSI further stated that DIAZ has never been in the U.S.A.,

but that her sister, DELIA ONDINA ISABEL SUAREZ, was in

the U.S.A. on a number of occasions in 1957 and 1958, and

that she was active in the 26th of July Movement in the

U.S.A.

DeliA

DIAZASUANEL

On December 20, 1961, Washington Field Office, by

letter, advised that the check of the, files of the central

OFfICe Of T Washington, D. C., reflected that a DELIA-

arrived U.S.A. via the port of Key

at 127S. W. 9th Street, Miami, Elorida, and Hotel Pan-

American, Miami, Florida.

On January 19, 1962, Mrs. MARGARET OLIVO, Assis-

tant Manager, Hotel Pan-American, Miami, Florida,

advised

REVEVED BY

- 2-

OM

6/3/99 de

It RELEASE IN PIRA

SECRET

FELEADE SA PART

TOTM LA

NW 64578 Docld:32337242 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-4811

SECRET

that a search of the

ecor

ner hotel failed to disclose

any record of a DELIAM

REZ-Or OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ, and

explained that most of the

ecordsof the hotel are destroyed

after one year, and that she does not believe that the

records for the year 1958 are complete.

A check made at 127 Southwest 9th Street, Miami,

Florida, on January 18, 1962, reflected that there is no

longer a house located

at that address, that it has been

razed! and replaced by a parking lot and commercial estab-

lishment, and inquiry in the neighborhood failed to disclose

and inced by

anyone who has any information concerning the occupants

of that address in 1958.

PSI MACHADO advised that

although OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ apparently has moved from her

former address located at Calixto Garcia #71, Regla, Cuba,

some of her relatives still reside there, and have knowledge

of the present residence address of OLGA DIAZ.

She may be

reached at telephone number 90-61-633, Havana.

PSI MACHADO and PSI DE LAS MATAS, both of whom •

have known the family of OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ and her sister,

DELIA, for over 20 years, are convinced that OLGA DIAZ

SUAREZ is serious in her attempt to defect and seek poli-

tical asylum in the U.S.A. DE LAS MATAS stated although

OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ was formerly pro-CASTRO, she has become

disillusioned with the regime of FIDEL CASTRO, inasmuch as

the regime is communist.

Both sources advised that OLGA

DIAZ SUAREZ is not active in the almost non-existent

underground in Cuba, and that she has chosen not to be

active in order to avoid having the attention of the

Cuban authorities attracted to her activities.

Inasmuch as the Bureau can be of little or no

direct assistance to OLGA DIAZ SUAREZ in her defection,

it is recommended

that the Bureau consider referring this

matter to CIA.

(U)

UACB, the Miami Office is not taking any further

action in instant matter.

NW 64578 Docld:32337242 Page 4

---

