# docid-32317421

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10353-10158

LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-280

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

69486 Diate: 12-02-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO:

HQ

• TITLE :

DATE: 11/09/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: - PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32317421 Page 1

---

## Page 2

11/9/63

AIRIEL

AIR MAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

FROM:

SAC, LOS ANGELES

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

(92-1137

92-113-C

IA 4396-C* advised on 11/6/63 that ROSELLI returned

to Los Angeles from Las Vegas, Nevada, on the evening of

11/5/63,

The same informant learned

that while ROSELLI has

been away he looked at a number of apartment buildings,

oversupply of apartment buildings and does not intend to buy

one.

ROSELLI told an unknown person that he has had a cold

for

several days and he intends to stay around los Angeles for

awhile;

he expressed disgust at all of the trouble the

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has been causing him. He added

that he would be at the Friar's Club that afternoon.

On 11/7/63,

according to LA 4396-0*, ROSELLI made

an appointment to see his attorney and accountant, EMANUEL

ROTHMAN.

On 11/5/63 several officials of IRS in Los Angeles

and the IRS Agents

JFK Law

11(a)

3-Bureau (AM) (RM)

1-Los Angeles

AIRTEL

puIrshitur

obile: 7110/9881

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

FILED

Dodge

921136-549

NW 68486 Docld:32317421 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

The Las Vegas Office advised on 11/5/63 that at

approximately 9:30 p.m. on 11/2/63 Special Agents of that office

observed ROSELLI in

" the lounge of the Desert Inn Hotel sitting

at a table with MORRIS KLEINMAN and NICHOLAS DANALFO, aka "PEANUTS."

ARNOLD HOFFMAN, PCI, advised that the records of the

Cogan-Rety

• Travel Bureau, Beverly Hills, California, reflect that

on 7/18/63 FRANK SINATRA arranged for transportation for about

25 persons via WAL from Los Angeles to Reno; that later SINATRA

transported 10 of these persons to Cal-Neva Lodge at Lake Tahoe

via his personally-owned plane and the remaining number traveled

via WAL, HOFFMAN had no record of the names of these persons.

It is recalled that ROSELLI and MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN

departed Los Angeles on the morning of 7/18/63 and allegedly

went to Cal-Neva Lodge at lake Tahoe; however, the means of travel

has not been known.

The records of WAL,

identified

9:00 a.M.

Ten of these persons were shown as

the remaining 13 were J. ROSELLI and an M. FRIEDMAN.

JACK WALTERS, PCI, advised on 11/7/63 that MAURICE H.

FRIEDAN returned to the Beverly Crest Hotel from Las Vegas over

the past weekend.

B. FRANK WILLLANS, a part owner of the Hotel

Last Frontier Corporation, also returned to the hotel. WALTERS

said that the current negotiations in which FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

are involved concerns the Holidays Inns who have their main

office in Memphis, Tennessee, and that FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

recently made a trip to Memphis.

This transaction no doubt

pertains to previously mentioned plans of the Holiday Inns

to build a hotel or motel adjacent to the New Frontier Hotel in

Las Vegas.

On 11/8/63 the Los Angeles Police Department advised on

that date they conducted a surveillance of ROSELLI and he visited

the building of his accountant on West Third Street and then went

to the building where JANES P. CANTILLON, an attorney, who has

an office and then proceeded to the

Hillcrest Country Club.

been utilized by RosELlI, The los Angeles Police Department advised

during the day on an occasion when ROSELLI was away from his car,

the officers were "going through" ROSELLI's ear and he caught them

at it and became very angry.

-2=

NW 68486 Docld:32317421 Page 3

---

