Date : 08/24/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10178
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 635-636

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : DIETRICH, DAN H JR
TO : CG, USA INTEL CMD
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 10/05/66
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

REQUESTED ACTION
CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS
LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED -
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

NW.64954 Docld:34530123 Page 1


REQUEST FOR AND RESUL 1S PERSONN

{AR 381-130) a 6

TO: (Gontrot Office) Riel lacice oa, ann SP FROM: (Requesting Agency)

CG, USA Intelligence Cmd CG, USAREC. ->- CO, AFEES

ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS ATTN: Séourity Offic 5 Clay Street

PO Box 398 Fort Monrbe, Va 23351 Land, “Celifornia

Fort Holabird, Md 21219
(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENGY to which results are ¢d_be ent, if known by
Recaehacs REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

T 7
CHIEF, USAPSG

ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Mid 21219

OPENING DATE

i

SECTION | — REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE
1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and 2. ALIAS(ES),

TA. ITY NO,
Catia wanes) (OcTAL SECURITY NO

SCHEER, Robert (NMN) None JPK Act 5 (a) (2) {D)
{iidianahica EL

{* BATE,OF BIRTH 5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, Stato and country) 6. GRADE AND POSITION
jay, Month, Year)
4 April 1936 Bronx, New York, New York, USA N/A

REQUESTED ACTION  LXJINVESTIGATION [_]VALIDATION [_] RECORDS CHECK
8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION: FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
Cnac (Nac (yet (joraercexptain in ttem 15) [ror secret [Jsecret [C] conripentiat

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:
Induction ». (] FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
11, JUSTIFICATION c [INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED
PAR 18, AR 604-10 4. (K] OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON REVEALED:

S[D]No UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION LOgNravorasce INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION
._ 7 EONFEMPLATED
CrormaTion SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15
13, LATEST INVESTIGATION/ CLEARANCE (Type, when, By whom) 14, NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE

WA EXCEEDING SEL NTHS SINCE,

1S. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.).
Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks
section of DD Form 98 and OD Form 398.

adquarters
vous ReerUstANS a
Eonar virginia a

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA

SECTION 11 - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
16. ("] NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED

Crrems ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
CONNTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

os

jan

DA on. 2784

Vv

| NW 64954 Docld:34530123 Page 2

For Official Use Only aed



FOR OFFIE

SECTION Ill — REQUE. ...2 TO CONTROL OFFICE

17, REPORT OF ACTION
Co inrormation Nore (Csussect Reassicnep To NON-
SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION

MAY BE CANCELED.

COINFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO
CLEARANCE, REQUEST COMPLETION

OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS

To. REMARKS (If retuming corrected fonns, atBte her’)

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SECTION IV — CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

SIGNATURE

| 30. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
(no Recoro Co ravoraste

(OI PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED

IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.

COMINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21

[5 ronwanveo FOR SECURITY DETER-
MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION

COvac nace 184

COMPLETED BY

Romer | Saartc.

DATE DOpSTER NUMBER

fof 67 40

Io teh GT

21. REMARKS

@. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY JN@LOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873

(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN

DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE

RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.
LATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS,

AR 640-98;, AND PARAGRAPH ____AR, 381-130, AS ARPLICABLE.

AR 604-5;

PARAGRAPH__AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH

SECTION V ~ ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

REPORT OF ACTION paar aarEEPSEEEE =5

[OU FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRE _ Cdaneavomaste DETERMINATION,
RECOWMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24

COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED,

[

(Reed est AvvITIONAL INVESTI-
GATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24

SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

HEADQUARTERS

DATED say

REMARKS

TNSeE NaweiN OL wert
eae

NW 64954 Docld:34530123 Page 3

SIGNATURE

