# docid-32303516

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10284-10028

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-39-381, 365, 348

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FISCHER, DONALD G.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Document Information

DATE: 11/10/1964

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, REL, ASSOC, ORGANIZED CRIMINAL ACT,

GAMBLING, LOTTERY, NUMBERS OPERATION, FBI INVEST,

CRIME CONDITIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection act o

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 1

1

---

## Page 2

PS 92-539

to the Bureau by May 1, 1964.

ADMINISCRATIVE

The Pittsburgh Office is submitting two reports

covering crime conditions within the Pittsburgn Division.

A report covering crime conditions in West Virginia was

submitted on 10/30/63, and this report covers the

Western Judicial District of Pennsylvania.

Information

is resorted by counties set lorth alphabetically, ana

information is set forth regarding all counties in

the Western District of Pennsylvania, wherein criminal

activity is reported.

Information that was developed concerning

violations of local, State and Federal laws not within

the

investigative jurisdiction of the FBI has been

disseminated, where appropriate, to the proper agency.

The Pittsburgh Office currently is or has

conducted investigation concerning criminal activity

mentioned herein which is within FBI investigative

jurisdiction.

INFORMANTS

same,

reports.

I symbols utilized in this report are the

where applicable, as those used in previous

PG I-3 Is Trooper PAUL DORNER, Pennsylvania

State Police, Bedford, Pa., contacted by SA J. EDWARD

KERN.

PG I-5 is PG 604-C, contacted by SA HOBART C.

LOVETT.

PG I-6 is PCI LESTER RODKEY, contacted by

SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG I-T is PG 526-C, contacted by SA J. EDWARD

KERN.

KERN.

PG I-8 is PG 695-C, contacted by SA J. EDWARD

B

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PC 92-539

PG I-9 is former POI RICHARD RIZOLA, contacted

bY SA RICHARD N. RANDLEMAN.

PG T-Il is PCI GUS FRANCIS, contacted by

SA EDWARD T. ZIMMERMAN.

PG I-15 is PG 613-C, contacted by SA OLIVER

H. HUNTER, III.

PG I-21 is PG 630-C, contacted by SA ROBERT

I. KELLY.

PG I-24 is PG 615-C, contacted by SA THOMAS

G. FORSYTH, III.

G. FORSYTH, F-25 18 P& 622-C, contacted by SA THOMAS

PG I-30 is PG 658-C, contacted by SA NORMAN

I. THOMPSON.

PG I-31 is PG 665-CTE, contacted by

SAW. B. ANDERSON, JR.

PG I-33 is PG 657-CTE, contacted by SA 'JAMES

B. FANNING:

PG I-35 is PG 653-CTE, contacted by

SAW. B. ANDERSON, JR.

PG I-36 is PG 620-C, contacted by SA SAMUEL

A. MILLER.

PG I-37. 1s PA 687-C, contacted by:SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG I-39 is PG 661-C, contacted by SA SAMUEL

A. MILLER.

PG I-40 is PCI CAROL SCHROEDER SMITH,

contacted by SA NORMAN I. THOMPSON.

PG I-46 is PCI LOUIS DROTAR, contacted by

SA DONALD G. FISCHER.

PG T-48 is PG 650-C, contacted by SA

JOHN

S. PORTELLA.

C

COVER

PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FG 92-539

PG I-63 is PG 600-C, contacted by

SA JAMES V. KINNANE.

PG I-66 is PG 605-C, contacted by SA OLIVER

H. HUNTER, III.

PG I-68 1S PG 654-C, contacted by SA NORMAN

T. THOMPSON.

PG T-71 is PG 574-C, contacted by SA CHAD A.

JOHN.

PG I-7? iS PCI JOHN MERENICK, contacted by

SA J. EDWARD MADVAY.

PG I-81 iS PCI THOMAS R. FARRAR, contacted by

SA THOMAS

A.

MAKI.

PG I-83 iS PCI BETTY ORRIS, contacted by

SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG I-85 Is PG 609-C, contacted by SA NORMAN

T. THOMPSON.

PG I-86 Is PC 608-C, contacted by SA HAROLD

L. STEVENS.

PG I-87 is PG 663-C, contacted by SA ROBERT

A. VOEGE.

PG T-89 is PG 573-C, contacted by SA JOHN S.

PORTELLA.

PG I-94 is NICK VIGNOVIC, contacted by

SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-98 is PCI PAUL J. ONDO, contacted by

SA CHARLES A. DECKER, JR.

PC I-100 iS PCI FRANK FYOCK, contacted by

SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG T-101 is Corporal THOMAS STERNER, Pennsyl-

vania State Police, Somerset, Pa., contacted

by SA

J. EDWARD KERN.

D

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PC 92-539

PG I-103 is PCI. WILLIAM G. MARCIANO, cOn-

tacted by

SA CHAD A. JOHN.

PG-T-104 is PCI THOMAS G. BALIGROCKY, COn-

tacted by SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-105 is PCI JOHN CIESIELSKI, contacted

by SA JOHN R. ACKERLY.

PG T-106 is former PCI RUBY GRAY, contacted

• by SA JAMES

A. SWENSON.

PG T-107 iS PCI LOUIS HOROWITZ, contacted

DY SA JAMES

B. FANNING.

PG T-108 IS PCI HARRY AZEN, contacted by

SA NORMAN I. THOMPSON.

PG I-109 1S PCI AL SONDELL, contacted by

SA DAMON W. PITCHER.

PG I-110 is former PCI LOUIS O. CAPUTO, JR.,

contacted by SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III.

PG I-111 is PG 685-C, contacted by SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-112 is PCI SALVATORE CARULLO, contacted

•by SAS M. JAMES KRUSCHKE and SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG I-113 is former PCI WILLIAM G. BARNHARDT,

contacted by SAS M. JAMES KRUSCHKE and SAMUEL A. MILLER.

SAS 3.

PG I-114 1s PG 692-C, contacted by SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG I-115 is EVERETT R. COTTOM, Security

Officer, U. S. Steel Corp., Homestead,

Pa., and a former

Agent of the FBI, contacted by SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III,

on May 14

, 1903,

and by SA SAMUEL A. MILLER on

October 24, 1903.

PG I-116 is PCI MARY K, KRAMER, contacted by

SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

E

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FG 92-539

PG I-I17 is POI CAROLINE KOSTUCH, contactea

by SA M. JAMES KRUSCHKE.

PG T-118 is PCI JOHN FARKAS, contacted by

SA CHAD A. JOHN.

PG I-119 is PCI GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON, JR.,

contacted by SA DONALD G. FISCHER..

PG T-120 is Chief of Police EARL MC GILI,

Bedfora, Pa.,

contacted by SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG I-121 iS CARMEN OLIVO, Bartender,

Boulevard Hotel, Logan Boulevard, Altoona, Pa., con-

tacted by SA J.

EDWARD KERN.

PG I-122 is PATRICK COLARY, Capital Press,

Duncansville, Pa., contacted by SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PC T-123 IS JAY. H. BURNS, 804 North Second

Street, Bellwood, Pa., contacted by SA J. EDWARD

KERN.

PC T-124 1S WILLIAM DUERR, Credit Association

of western Pennsylvania, 701 Commonwealth Annex,

Pittsburgh, Pa., contacted by SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

and SA WILLIAM B. ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-125 is PCI ALBERT LANTZ, contacted

by SA HOBART C.. LOVETT.

PG I-126 is former PCI ROCCO J. SPEZIALY,

contacted by SA FRANK H. GEIERMANN.

PG I-127 Is PG 596-C, contacted by SA

FRANK H. GEIERMANN.

PG I-128 is PG 690-C, contacted by SA ROBERT

T. KELLY.

COVER: PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FILERAL

i5t: i2.8

TORUNCH

URSAY OF INY,

AGATION

1.0:3

OFFEE OF ORIGIN

11/12/64

14/1/64 - 1120/04

COUDEEZONS 1Y

_PTSCHER

CHARACTEN OF CASE

Tep Hoodlum Program

ANTI* RACKETEERING

_Pittsburghs

Report of 3A DONALD G. FISCHER, Plutsburgh, S/3/5+

TYIEU!'Y

20n

1.

22242308

TO THE BERGAO 12,

o.iainal aud one copy ei a letterhead memorandor

chattanding

infeconato does do this report.

12 - 152000 Rae CAlLeshenx 903292)

41.7

prepare a report concerning

crime conditions in

best:: District of Pennagivenia for submission to the Bureau

<0 284,655

Dad: 10/13188 EY SPSGIlonS

- COPIES MADE

DATE C:18.18

!.. BY

•QWCURE MANHARING

FOR REVIEW AT MEIMO ANU/OR DELIVERY

TO HSCA RE ALGULST DATED YER.

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BSLOW

62+9-39-381

190-9-300/0900)

1ch Pea (92-500)

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-539

INFORMANTS

T symbols utilized in this report are the same,

=.

where apphicables

as those used in previous reports.

PG T-5

-C, contacted by-SA HOBART C..

TOVENT

PG T-6 1S LESTER RODKEY, contacted by SA J. EDWARD

KERN, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office.

PG I-7 1S PG 526-C, contacted by SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG T-9 1s former PCI RICHARD RIZOLA, contacted

by SA JOHN S. HUGHES.

PG I-10 1s PG 603-C, contacted by SA JOHN S. HUGHES.

PG T-11 1s PG 698-C, contacted by SA EDWARD T.

ZIMMERMAN.

PG I-15 1s PG 613-C, contacted by SA OLIVER H.

HUNTER, III.

KELLY.

PG I-21 1s PG 630-C, contacted by SA ROBERT I.

PG I-27 1s former PCI JAMES W. BURGART, contacted

by SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III.

PG I-30. 1s PG 658-C, contacted by SAS NORMAN I..

THOMPSON and JOHN R. ACKERLY.

PG I-31 1s PG 665-CTE, contacted by SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-33 1s PG 657-CTE, contacted by SA JAMES B.

FANNING.

PG T-36 1s PG 620-C, contacted by SA SAMUEL A.

MILLER.

_C-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-539

PG I-37 1s PG 687-C, contacted by SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-39 1s PG 661-C, contacted by SA SAMUEL

A. MILLER.

PG T-46 Is PCI LOUIS DROTAR, contacted by SA

DONALD G. FISCHER.

PG I-48 1S PG 650-C, contacted by SA JOHN S.

PORTELLA.

PG I-63 is PG 600-C, contacted by SA JAMESVV.

KINNANE.

PG T-66 Is PG 605-C, contacted by SA OLIVER

H. HUNTER, III.

PG I-68 is PG 654-C, contacted by SA NORMAN I.

THOMPSON.

PG T-77 is PCI JOHN MERENICK, contacted by SA J.

EDWARD MADVAY.

PG T-83 1s PCI BETTY ORRIS, contacted by SA SAMUEL

A. MILLER.

PG I-84 1s PG 581-C, contacted by SA NORMAN T.

THOMPSON.

PG T-85 is PG 609-C, contacted by SA NORMAN I.

THOMPSON.

PG T-86 1s PG 608-C, contacted by SA HAROLD

L. STEVENS.

PG I-8% 1s PG 663-C, contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE.

PG I-88 1s PG 623-C, contacted by SA JOHN S.

'ORTELLA.

PG T-89 1s PG. 573-C, contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

- D

COVER

: PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 9

---

## Page 10

-539

PG T-93 1s PCI JOANNE TANCRAITOR, contacted by

SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-94 1s PCI NICK VIGNOVIC, contacted by

SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-100 IS PCI FRANK FYOCK, contacted by

SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG T-104 is PCI THOMAS G. BALIGROCKY, contacted

by SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-105 is PCI JOHN CIESIELSKI, contacted by

SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

PG T-112 1S PCI SALVATORE CARULLO, bY SA M. JAME

KRUSCHKE.

PG I-114 is PG 692-C, contacted by SA W. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-116 is PCI MARY K. KRAMER, contacted by

SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-117 is PCI CAROLINE KOSTUCH, contacted by

SA M. JAMES KRUSCHKE.

PG T-118 is PCI JOHN FARKAS, contacted by SA

CHAD A. JOHN.

PG I-119 1s PG 725-C, contacted by SA DONALD

G

FISCHER.

PG I-127 1s PG 596-C, contacted by SA FRANK H.

GEIERMANN.

PG T-130 1s PG 704-CTE, contacted by SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-131 1s PG 715-C, contacted by SA ROBERT

1. VOEGE.

PG T-137 18 PCI WILLIAM FASLY, CoNtâcted by

JAMES KRUSCHKE.

-E-

COVER PAGE

NW G

Docld:32303516 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PG 92-539

PG T-139 1S PCI GARY PASTORE, contacted by

SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-140 1s PCI CHARLES LEVKULICH, contacted by

SA SAMUEL A. MILLER.

PG T-142 1s PG 723-C, contacted by SA EUGENE

F. CABLE.

PG_ T-143 is former PCI CLINTON ROCKEY, contacted

by SA JAMES V. KINNANE.

PG T-145 is PG 711-C, contacted by SA JAMES

V. KINNANE.

PG T-146 is former PCI RICHARD KENNETH HICKEY,

contacted by SA JAMES V. KINNANE.

PG T-148 is PCI ERNIE MASTROIANNI, contacted by

SA EUGENE F. CABLE.

PG I-149 is TED ICKES, who requested that his

identity be kept confidential,

contacted by SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG T-152 18 PG 731-C, contacted by SA ROBERT

T. KELLY.

PG I-153 is PCI MORRIS BERZINSKI, contacted

by SA ROBERT T. KELLY.

PG I-154 1S HOWARD DUNN, gypsy car dealer,

Somerset,

Pa., who requested that his identity by kept

confidential,. contacted by SA J. EDWARD KERN.

PG T-155 1s PCI RUSSELL TRACEY, contacted by

SA EUGENE F. CABLE.

PG T-150 is Dr. THOMAS F. TODD, 2001 McLean St.,

Aliquippa, Pa., who requested that his identity be kept

confidential, contacted by former SA CHARLES A. DECKER, JR.

PG I-157 1S PCI EUGENE D. GATEWOOD, contacted

by SA MARVIN A. REYNOLDS.

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PG 92-539

coon

PG T-158 is Trooper JOSEPH VALENTE, Gambling

and Vice Squad, Pennsylvania State Police, Beaver Falls,

Pa., who requested that his identity be kept confidential,

contacted by SA EUGENE F. CABLE.

PG T-159 is Fayette County Detective WILLIAM

TULICH, Uniontown, Pa., who requested that his identity

bekept confidential, contacted by SA JOHN B. RUCKER, JR.

PG T-160 1s PCI GERALD GIFFORD, contacted by

SA JAMES V. KINNANE.

Pa I-161 1s PG 683-PC, contacted by SA W. B.

ANDERSON,

JR.

PG. T-162 is PCI SELVY DOTY, contacted by SAS

JOHN S. PORTELLA and FRANK E. ALLISON.

PG T-163 1s PG 722-PC, contacted by SA JAMES Bo

FANNING.

PG T-164 is

PCI NORMA GRILLO, contacted by

SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

PG T-165 1s PCI JOHN ESTOCIN, contacted by

SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG I-166 is LOGAN C. EWING, 217 E. 10th Ave.,

City Councilman, Homestead,

Pa., who

requested that his

identity be kept confidential, contacted by SAW. B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-167 1s PCI ELIZABETH SCHUETZ, contacted

by SA WILLIAM J. COGGIN.

PG 1-100 is MrS. SARAH CALIG, owner of the

Monroeville Beer Distributing Company,

Miracle Mile

shopping center, Monroeville,

pa.,

who requested that her

identity be kept confidential, contacted by SA SAMUEI

A. MILLER.

PG I-169 1s PG 699-C, contacted by SA NORMAN

T. THOMPSON.

-G-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PG 92-539

PG I-170 1s PG 679-C, contacted by SA CLIVE

G. MATTHEWS.

PG T-171 1s PG 724-C, contacted by SA WILLIAM

J. COGGIN.

PG T-172 1s MAYNARD L. BAKER, Proprietor, La Jose

Hotel, La Jose, Pa., who requested that his identity be

kept confidential, contacted by SA JOHN S. HUGHES.

PG 173-C Is PCI CHRIST BANTLES, contacted by

SA ROBERT T. KELLY.

H*

COVER

PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32303516 Page 13

---

