992 (44 USC 2107 Note], Case#:Nw

- 02/12/97
1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM -

- AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORDS SERIES

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

TO

TITLE
DATE
PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF
194-10001-10233

: DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

558366175S - PAGES 93-97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
USA

: SUMMARY OF INFORMATION
: 06/24/68
5

: WILLIAM JOSEPH HERLIHY

AFFILIATION WITH CIA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: CONFIDENTIAL

ic, 3

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/12/95

: COMPLETION OF REVIEW OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
: COORDINATION WITH THE CIA HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND PAGE

97 IS RELEASABLE WITH RESTRICTIONS,
SEPT 95.

PER MEMO DTD 12

NW 64954 Docld:34517482 Page 1


CODE FOR USE IN INDIVIDUAL PARAGRAPH EVALUATION

OF SOURCE: OF INFORMATION:
COMPLETELY RELIABL . CONFIRMED BY OTH
USUALLY RELIABLE PROBABLY TRUE

13 August 1929, FAIRLY RELIABLE POSSIBLY TRUE

NOT USUALLY RELIABLE ~~ OOUBTFULLY TRUE
Pittsburgh, Penna UNRELIABLE oo IMPROBABLE

RELIABILITY UNKNOWN : TRUTH CANNOT BE JUDGE!
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

& LIC William J. Herlihy first came to the operational attention
lof the 650th MI Detachment (650th MID) in approximately August 1967

hen he misrepresented himself as a member of that unit on two separate
loccasions, in both instances to Alta Fowler, the American Consul,
Brussels, Belgium. As a result, Herlihy received information to which

e had no authorized access from Fowler. This information was subsequent
y misrouted a second time by Herlihy, and only accidentally reached the
Iresponsible authority, that béing the 650th MID. The information
lconcerned an investigation then being conducted by the 650th MID, and
lits unauthorized release to one of the principals by Herlihy seriously. ..
jeopardized the successful completion of that investigation. dieters |

o.WYes On an unrecalled date in the fall, 1967, Herlihy related thaq
e was having sexual relations with one Isabelle Walton, and that
lalton might be of interest to intelligence authorities. A subsequen
check revealed that Walton, a United Kingdom (UK) national, was marrigg
to a USAF technical sergeant then assigned to Thailand, and since 1
January 1968 assigned to Soesterburg Air Base, The Netherlands, Waltg
then and now, was employed as a switchboard operator at SHAPE.

3. CkeF In late December 1967/early January 1968, Herlihy reported

lan agent of the 650th MID that he suspected Walton to be a low level
agent working for the Belgian Communist Party. He further stated tha
Ine thought Walton could be recruited to work for US Intelligence and,~
that he had passed this information to COL John Pratt, Intelligence
Division, SHAPE, and to the 513th MI Group (513th MIG}. Herlihy:

stated that Walton had attempted to establish relationships with high-
ranking officers assigned to SHAPE. Additionally, Walton had taken some
personal letters from his apartment and that the contents of the letters
might be detrimental to hin.

Lee. Ser On 3 January 1968, information was received by 650th MID that
Herlihy's checking account was consistently overdrawn in large amounts.
Further investigation revealed a dividend check endorsed by Herlihy

ito Walton. :

5 sys In approximately February, 1968, Herlihy intimated that he
was involved in spotting and recruiting sources for other intelligence
activities, later identified by Herlihy as the 513th MIG, USAREUR.

83 * (Continued)

DA oes, Gam CONFIDENTIAL cro somone

NW 64954 Docld:34517482 Page 2



SUBJECT: William J. Herlihy, LIC, 064739
DPOB: 13 August 1929, Pittsburgh, Penna

He stated that Walton and an unnamed Israeli female were being considered
for recruitment. CO, 650th MID, advised Herlihy that in light of infor-
mation furnished by Herlihy regarding Walton's promiscuity, he (Herlihy)
was not exercising good judgement in maintaining his relationship with
Walton. Herlihy replied by implying that his interest in Walton was
motivated by operational considerations. ad
si\yor In late February/early March 1968, Deputy J-2, EUCOM, COL
Von Pawel, during a visit to Headquarters, 650th MID, Brussels, stated?
that in mid-December 1967 a Patch Barracks telephone operator at
EUCOM had monitored a telephone conversation between an unidentified
Colonel in the Special Security Office, J-2, EUCOM, and an unidentifie'
female calling from SHAPE. The conversation included remarks about
the Colonel being blackmailed, and that the Colonel would meet "her"
(the ynidentified female) in London "that weekend" to discuss the
problem at greater length. Also mentioned was the Colonel's wife who
apparently was in the US. LTC J. C. Land, CI and Security Branch,

J-2 Directorate, EUCOM, was interviewed on 4 March 1968 and stated tha’
he was of the opinion that the recipient of the referenced phone call
was LIC Herlihy, who had been on temporary duty status at EUCOM during
the period in which the call was monitored. Herlihy subsequently
admitted to receiving a phone call from Walton at the US Army Special ~
Security Detachment, EUCOM, but was unable to recall the details of the
conversation.

3 DoD £209.1-R

GLASSIFIE

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOV/PO

Un
AUTH PABA 1-8

REGRADED U
cep 781

ON

2X) On 8 May 1968, Herlihy was interviewed concerning Walton. He
stated that he first met Walton in September 1967, and that soon there-
after she offered to supply information to him concerning the Communist
and Socialist Parties in Belgium. Herlihy stated that Walton told him
she had been the mistress of Guy Cudell, a Belgian Member of Parliament
and prominent socialist; that Cudell had paid her fare from the US to
Belgium in 1967; and that she had the keys to Cudell's private office
and apartment. Walton also told Herlihy that she had been trained in
communist ideology, had seen communist films, and had attended communist
lectures with Cudell. Herlihy stated that he reported this information
to COL John Pratt and continued his“association with Walton to gain
further information. Herlihy further alleged that Walton may have
attempted to gain information;from him concerning SHAPE Survey Section,
and that she had taken two pérsonal letters from his briefcase in his
apartment which she believed could cause him embarrassment. Walton
later told Herlihy that she had the letters and would return them to
him at a later date. Herlihy -stated his belief that Walton was a notorious
liar and that she retained the letters to insure that he would not
reveal the details of ‘her personal life.

8.(\ On 8 May 1968, COL John Pratt, Intelligence Division, SHAPE,
stated that in October 1967, Herlihy had reported to him that Walton
had offerred her services to US Intelligence and that she may have
attempted to solicit information from him concerning SHAPE. Herlihy
also reported to Pratt that Walton had taken-letters from him and that

she might attempt to use these letters to blackmail him.
Q Hi |

NW 64954 Docld:34517482 Page 3


SUBJECT; William J. Herlihy, LTC, 064739
DPOB: 13 August 1929, Pittsburgh, Penna .

Pratt related this information to the 513th MIG and requested that

- CO, 513th MIG, visit SHAPE and personally assess Walton's potential
as a source. In December 1967, CO, 513th MIG, visited SHAPE and concluded
that the 513th MIG had no interest in Walton.

9. VU On 17 May 1968, COL George Watson, CO, 513th MIG, stated that.
Pra had reported the lnformation concerning Walton to him and that
after visiting SHAPE he had determined that the 513th MIG had no
interest in her and the matter should be passed to counterintelligence
authorities.

10. Ne On 23 May 1968, Herlihy was reinterviewed concerning Walton
ank rnished additional instances that indicated that Walton was
attempting to gain classified information from him, Herlihy stated that
Walton admitted that her husband had his letters and that she was
attempting to get them back to return to Herlihy. Herlihy opined that
money would be demanded for their return. To date no such demand

has been made and the letters have not been returned. Herlihy

admitted that in November 1967 he and Walton went to Bittburg, Germany ,
and in December 1967 to Stuttgart, Germany. Herlihy further stated
that in December 1967 he had attempted on one occasion to contact

CO, 513th MIG, concerning his continued association with Walton which
he had concluded was no longer profitable. He stated that this attempt
was motivated by his belief that Walton could no longer be trusted

and was of no value to military intelligence. He was unsuccessful

in this attempt. Herlihy stated that with the exception of chance
encounters at SHAPE, he had terminated his relationship with Walton

as of 1 January 1968, Herlihy admitted to having sexual intercourse
with Walton on numerous occasions.

ll. Qer On 18 June 1968, Isabelle Walton was interviewed and stated
the following: Walton first met Herlihy in July 1967. She terminated
the relationship with Herlihy in January 1968. Walton stated that
she and Herlihy had had an "affair"; that she had had sexual inter~
course with Herlihy. During her relationship with Herlihy, he told
her that he was legally separated from his wife and was planning to
get a divorce. He told Walton that she should legally separate from
her husband and obtain a divorce also. For a period of time during
their "affair," Walton seriously considered doing this. Walton further
stated that Herlihy told her he was an agent of the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) and that his assignment at SHAPE was a "cover." He said
he received his instructions from EUCOM (not further identified) and
that he used the communication facilities of Alta Fowler, the American
Consul, because those at SHAPE were not sufficiently secure. He stated
that his real assignment at SHAPE as a CIA agent was to "watch people,
see what's going on," and report to "the head office of the CIA in
Washington." Walton described Guy Cudell as a long-time family friend

7 ADED UNCLASSIFIED
lietuaired 0.8 1994

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOVPO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-A

NW 64954 Docld:34517482 Page 4


SUBJECT: William J. ebapraa (| LTC, 064739
2

DPOB: 13 August 1929, Pittsburgh, Penna

who had been helpful to her in finding employment when she came to
Belgium, She stated that no time had Cudell requested information
concerning SHAPE from her, but that Herlihy, upon learning of her
friendship with Cudell, attempted to recruit her to work for him in
his capacity as a CIA agent. As inducement, Herlihy stated she would
be paid a $150 retainer each month; her citizenship would be changed
from UK to US; and that if she "ever got into any trouble there would
be a plane standing by so my children and I would be safe." Walton
described Herlihy as an individual who considers himself a "007."

She said that Herlihy would call her late at night to tell her he

was going to make a "contact"; that Herlihy stated he would sleep
with women if it was required to get information; that he carried a
gun frequently and on one occasion drew it on two women who surprised
them late at night on a street; that he claimed to have killed a man
who was a double agent behind the Iron Curtain; and that he talked
about his being under surveillance and in danger. Herlihy related to
Walton the name of a confidential source of the 650th MID. He stated
that he had an Israeli girl working as a source for him, and that he
was protecting a Hungarian girl who would be killed if she returned to
Hungary because she had worked for him. The Israeli girl is actively
being considered as a participant in an intelligence operation by the
513th MIG and as such has been compromised by Herlihy. Walton
described her as his mistress, as were an unidentified Dutch girl,
English girl, and the Hungarian girl. Herlihy discussed telephone
tapping with Walton; stated that he thought his telephone was being
tapped; offerred to tap her telephone; and showed her some equipment
allegedly used to monitor telephone conversations. Despite her initial
refusal, Herlihy was insistent regarding Walton's recruitment as a
source, and gave her some literature concerning espionage cases to
read. Herlihy revealed to Walton that she would be required to undergo
a polygraph examination prior to operating as a source. On one occasion
he presented her with a list of individual characteristics such as
"financial status" and "position" and requested that she fill in the
names and relevant information concerning individuals she had met
through Cudell. Walton stated that the letters in question had been
left in her apartment by Herlihy and that her husband had taken them
upon arriving in Belgium. She stated that her husband knew of her
"affair" with Herlihy; that he had threatened to go to SHAPE, confront
Herlihy, and sue him. While he did eventually go to SHAPE, he took no
action, The aforementioned letters included a letter to Herlihy from
his wife in the US which gave no indication that Herlihy is legally
separated; a letter from a woman identified as Terry Ginotti, an
enlisted man's wife with whom Walton alleges Herlihy had an affair ~
(evidence of which is in the letter); a reply to Ginotti's letter in
which Herlihy indicates he is in the process of getting a divorce from
his wife but cannot at the present time afford it. Also included

UNCLASSIFIED

a
SCOM Ours.

ae DoD 5200.1 -B

£6 GRADED
Re or 08

BY CDR US:
AUTH PARA 1

NW 64954 Docld:34517482 Page 5


: \
SUBJECT: William J. Herlihy, LTC, 064739
DPOB: 13 August 1929, Pittsburgh, Penna

were various hotel bills and receipts covering some of the weekends
Walton ahd Herlihy spent together. Walton stated that Herlihy had
originally requested the return of the letters but had recently said

that he had no interest in them. Herlihy has related to ‘Walton

some of the details of his activity as CO, 430th MI Group in Italy,
including what he considered to be the misuse of Intelligence Contingency
Funds. He also told her that he was rotating to the head office of

the CIA in Washington when he leaves SHAPE in July 1968. Walton admitted
calling Herlihy in December 1967 while he was on TDY to Stuttgart,
stating that she called in response to a call he had placedto her,

during which he cited a specific red line on which he could be reached.
She could not recall the details of the conversation, but knew of no
occasion on which Herlihy was mentioned as a subject of blackmail.

Walton denied having sexual relations with any individuals assigned to
SHAPE other than Herlihy; she denied offering to furnish Herlihy with
information concerning the Communist and Socialist Parties in Belgium;
she denied retaining the letters with any thought of blackmail, but
rather to remind herself of the mistake she made with Herlihy. Walton
described Herlihy as "a disgrace to the American uniform he wears";

as "living on women and what he can get out of them."

12. Bo. 20 June 1968, a check with the Chief of Station, CIA,
Brugsels, revealed that Herlihy was not presently and had never been
working for the CIA in any capacity. 7

Is.

NW 64954 Docld:34517482 Page 6
