y

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/12/201
Identification Form

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90103-10028

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: —92-2940-409

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 07/17/1963
‘PAGES: 26

SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1 i
NW 64578 Docld:32332627 Page 1


roars (Rens f-50 C ;
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION .

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD:

PITTSBURGH PITTSBURGH | 7/17/63 5/1 - 6/28/63
TITLE OF CASE o : REPORT MADE BY :

ny ROBERT A, VOEGE alz
SEBASTIAN JOHN’LA ROCCA, aka CHARACTER OF CASE va

ANTI -RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

REFERENCES
V' "Report of SA ROBERT A, VORGE at Pitts tetas 40/63.
V/ pittsburgh airtels to Bureau dated 5/22/63, 6/371052 /63.

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2): '

Enclosed fag the Bureau are the original and 1
copy of a letterhe ad memorandum dated and captioned as
above at Pittsburgh, Pa.

LEADS
MIAMI : :

At Bel Aire, Florida Ve
: UA

a. Will conduct an investigation to determine the o
: + cad

APPROVED glad my pe SPECIAL AGENT DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Tieden em GALLGULr YO
Miami (92-163) ea aa

Philadelphia (92-497)
pittsburgh (92-226) go lL 29 1962

re

2
2
2

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

NW 64578 Docld:32332627 Page 2


pa 92-226
PHILADELPHIA

At Harrisburg, Pa.

The Intelligence Unit of the Internal Revenue Ser-
vice at Pittsburgh, Pa., is conducting an intensive investi-
gation relating to expenditures made by LA ROCCA during the
years 1961-1962, and desires to learn of any motor vehicle
purchases made by LA ROCCA during these years. It has been
noted that most of the cars driven by LA ROCCA are registered
under the name of his wife, MARY S. LA ROCCA, or the North
‘Star Cement Block Company at Pittsburgh, Pa. A Thunderbird
‘driven by his adopted son may be registered in the name JOHN
S.. LA ROCCA, é

Philadelphia at Harrisburg is requested to advise
whether a séarch under the name of the subject and all known
aliases, as well as for his adopted son, his wife and. the
North Star Cement Block Company for 1961-1962, would be. _
feasible so that the Intelligence Unit of the Internal Revenue
Service may be advised. It should be noted that prosecution
against LA ROCCA is being sought for the early portion of
the year, 1964.

At Wayne, Pa.

Will ascertain the subscriber to teieshone Mu 8-
6600, which was contacted from the LA ROCCA residence at Ingo-
mar, Pa., on 5/12/63. If this number belongs to a motel,
will determine whether LA ROCCA or his adopted son made re-
servations during the appropriate period.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT
PG T-1 is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell
Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by SA
ROBERT A, VOEGE on 6/17/63.
PG T-2 is Mrs. DON DRINKHOUSE, 1960 SE 15th Court,
Bel Aire, Florida, PCI of the Miami Office, and contacted
by SA JAMES J. KEARNEY, on 5/16/63.

PG T-3 és PG 585-C, who was contacted by SA ROBERT
A. VOEGE on 6/26/63

rote

NW 64578 Docld:32332627 Page 3


PG. 92-226

: PG T-4 is PG 657-CTE, who was contacted by SA JAMES
B. FANNING on 5/17/63.

PG T-5, is EDWARD M. BURKE, a PCI of the Pittsburgh

Office, who was contacted by SA NORMAN T.: THOMPSON, on.5/7/63.

PG T-6 is PG 685-C*, who is contacted by SA WILLIAM
B. ANDERSON on a daily basis. .

PG T-7 is PG 622-C*, who is contacted.by SA ROBERT
A, VOEGE :on a daily basis.

-D*-
COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32332627 Page 4
