# docid-32989645

## Page 1

File #:

b2-H0-116395

Serial Scope:

EBF 665

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

Canet:N 65360 Date: 11-17-2022-

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 1

---

## Page 2

62-116395-665

SEP•eks 9-9-75

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

D.

.S.

SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE ON

Re is made to the SSC

- INTELLIGENCE

August 20, 1975, request ACTIVITIES (SSC)

for FBI materials and

specifically, to Part V, for which delivery was

requested by September 9, 1975. Enclosed for

ut approval and forwarding to the SSC is the

oxig of a memorandum in full response to Part.V.

Also enclosed for ur records is a copy of the

memo prepared for the SSC.

DATE V8 S0 0N SR3A /W

- NW-65360-Docld:32989645_Page 2

---

## Page 3

SSC-REQUeST, August 20,1975

Part I, 1

RetAiN:

UNEXCiSED

ALLINT ORVATION CONTAINED

ĐN 2020206 3B34c/ew

167-10498

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CITICAL PORIA RO. 10

MAY IO.L I GUTION

&A 18R:13 (41 6918) 859-11-0

UNITED STATES

ER.: RENT

morano

TO

: SAC, LOS ANGELES

(100-19949)

DATE:

6/5/72

FROM : 54 . BERT 6. BENJAMIN

SUBJECT: "CHAKOLD"

ERDA DO

•iD, ala

Della cover

00:

Los Angeles

excesed to protect Fol informant

On 5/31/72< CSIA 5596-S Cavised DELIA COOVER iS

using the pseudonym Bella Stumbo, so this matter has been

marked "changed"

CSLA indicated COVER is using the Bella Scumio

alias in conneciion with her position as a start writer ror

the "Ios Angeles Timos"

ACTION

ADEX should ve changed to include the new alias and

subject's positione a staff writer for the Times.

since subject is writing under a still different pseudonym,

for the Monterey Park Progress newspapers, it is suggested

that consideration be given to advising the Internal Revenue

Service that she may be receiving payroll checks under these

pseudonyms and not reporting her total income correctly. Appro-

priate investigation should be conducted to verify subject's

use of the additional pseudonym.

MENCONANED

TE 100 2 51 82A) 2)

100-19414

si.à."...

ERALIZEDIT

<134-31:711

80-1420

exces to pite 31 interane

'CRIA 6506-5

(TOS ANGALES TIMES

Inder i

GGB/seb

(3)

Now 55309 pox 289515 peAS Sange led Real on the gial See, 322

---

## Page 5

11000. Wishine Boulevard

Los Angelegs

0a21 toria

90024

July 25s 1972

Distitot Director

Enterol Revenue derrice:

P. 0. 2004 291

Lon Atorteo, Calicornia 80053

Dear Sir:

For yous esformation the Los Igeles Ofttee

cỡ he 20t to ododuebins an official investleotion ervolving

F.

Della Odover

bogs Sepsenher: i: 1920; Social Recurity

Account, Munner 857416-3953.

To has cóme to bie atrention of chettos Antele.

offloe that Delta Coover to a staff offleer for the Too

Angeles times" renopaber voing paeudo bame of Reyla Stupbo

and

that she may not

employment.

,be

reporting her ernings fron this

Enclosed is a recent article unition by Bella

Stumbo.

This intormation is being brought

to your attention

Ior whatever action you decm necessary.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TERENIS UNC

DATE 1820-008 ER2A LeN

Very truly yours,

WESLEY

Sio GRAPP

Special

Agent in Charge

Enclosure 1

- Addressce. (Rit)

How Meet 100-194

UPK, bab

(3)

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 5

SEAGCHED

INDE

FILED

---

## Page 6

FD 35-4. 1-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

3 EBOLES VISTER

"They Said

Be Snot. a

Lidle Girl'

EX FELLA DORIBO

1 Jimes Stell Writer

Forly in the evening of. July 2, e Ayers old gil

noned Jayes Any livil was shot te donth as she pioyad

in is youd in learnian ordens. She wos his with 12

aboraun polet tyr from a poosing car, Subscauendle

Ma** Chicoco wadis from the ncighberina Norwo!:

barto woe crored. being hold on cassicion of murder

in lee killing ere Donolo Anteio, 21, Oscar Hernandez,

22, and Michari Romirez, 17.

Donald Anton's mother Beatrice, p0, is a devoul.

Catholic. She has a makeshift altar in her bedroom.

whore she prays each night before going to bed.

She ber jua find hod bee rosary the night police

comto locktag for lor son.

"Thers were fond of them at the dook, 'They

rushed throuch the inter searching for Don. I

said he wasn't bonic. but what did they want. him

for And there said. becanse he shot a little girl,

that my box killed a child?

beatrice Antilo was stung at her kitchen tabic,

staring listicsoly d a cold com of coffee in front of

her, her voice a wrary whisper.

"They didn't have unitorme on. so I thought

maybe they were some of Don's fricnis playing a

bad jolie. I told them to stop fooling around about

something so aufu!."

Though it was nearly noon now. Beatrice Antelo

sill wore liet houserobe and slippers. Her small.

Kitchen was half lost in the stagnant gloom of

drawn shades and closed mindows

"I said no. it was imbossible. Not my son. Ha

weet never in his lite de cuch a turtle thing"

Tones lucin deport her bood tie Wer

Home. Are lord seman the fast a dead to

wethere wigail nod liar not taken a thrice

late el Me Mill Fleet

Magd

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED

ATE!

her tom trace bel dee tell tra. They

NW: 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 6oid Lit it

Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

IV-1 Los Angeles

Tir

Los Angeles,

Calif

Date: 7/19/72

Edition: Wednesday finei

Author:

Editor:

Tille:Dell : Coover

Character:

Classification: 100-19940

Submitting Office:LOS Angel"

Being Investigated

SEARCUTO...

SERIAUBED...

FILED

JUL 241072'

tandee

---

## Page 7

A Pari

irt;

dict

.. ..

1:1?.:

"Ile top to me cod put lie acms croone me god

caprice les the lie r.

Mitra.

She Matt

filling in the tours.

"And herpird

'init the liked me rathe

Theo Beatrice atole reary With encody few

home,": "?!:

ble and sobbed in ichoir:

hopolesa despair.

timewore more Whitt is no hollet.

Dran poore the oiler dilestand but dote fir

Meien Horando% 1. and her budend Actorto,

So, cat side to airie on their couch in a cuties. tit

mile diati

pies and poor acapes de their lure courtesetr

it two t

dred tillege pault teta ve lookine for my

clinic:.

likr

have tried, got failed in comarchoed fully weat

ha: hapened to them thi: cminct

here to petite onigh

Which is walakk anauctandable for nott

afraid, is ho

tatened politoly,

in then experience ins propared thom to dot tra

they be i trade come protesue mistake

a murder charge against a member of tet fami

She kNew bee son. He was a good bor. He loved least of all against Oscar their quietent, claret

Children tie and his citricad wanted lo have a

pir latt: when they got married-wrich

Mas moon as Don found a job. tien't casy to lind.

-

a job warn you don't have a car to look outside tha

harrin. the

har explained!

Mean doorshe peeded ood, Dod was & good stil-

dent. at cerites College. tie studied hard. made

good trades, "wos determined to make something

out of bimsair

Gantrice Antelo absentmindedly stroked a tiny

brewis dog Sleeping peacefully in her lap. ate is

her watchdog

When stragers

approach

the

house, he poles his heart through a broken living

room windoy pane and backs with cumie ferecity.

Don had been in trouble before, of course, she

conunued. an odee of bitterness crecping into her

roice as she toid how he had been thrown out of

Excelsior High School tour vears ago because "he

had long hair before it was common."'

He harl

broches with the police betore, too, she said, withr

out claborating- but most barrio youths have si-

milar experiences.

'Won't Care Shout Savine Mini

"You have to live hore to know what it's like.

Police everthere, porerty top can't cacane, no

" Her voice tradied dif in a resigned shrug.

She makes leas than 58.000 anomals, so she can't.

affond is hire a private attomey in defend her son

she said. And

shes certain the coun-apoointed

public ricfender "won't care about saving him.

A cough suddenly seized her. The doctor has

warned her against interviens, she explained. She

doesn't answer the iclephone much anymore eith-

er because it often turns out to be somebody call-

1ng her the motic of a monster or threatening to

bomb ber house or worse still. to harm her older

son, 31, a father of tip with a job outside Nor-

"I guess it makes people feel better to get the

hate off their chests when something as horrible

as tini; happens," she sigher. "I just" hang up."

But her mind clearly wasn't on herself--ii was

still on that. last. nicht

m the seene that had

awaited hop when the audite to dificers ve

turner tame.

• x*

Mitty or jonit

the wait where a buce cicaday of the gecension

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 7*

---

## Page 8

Hold and Anonin Mer

lie therefot"

bounter litt

der ted cold tee

Meanin

Phaems to leader.

Smee then, they have fit

denty ted accents to

aingie, Crociplicate phi-

Airman licitair

de: road thre

itt

11D

hica geare Aroundis

it tamil and no log.

lars. do hispiee, no bums,

complis.

hatri-

moris -minder

who

work hard,

God, di. iphee the mit-

patriotic

Americane. Facially Who

later.

Whea Mach

Hernan"

business wit note out ar

cordintit

life miaht he

meager. but it will admance

trafico.

the

'boams.

he

and peaceably

wont to soire his country

and.

johape, for thcir

without question.

lie was

children, di may ern he-

in the Arnt in a feat. unr

come progressively richer.

til an automobile accident.

And. until July, the iler

carned him both & medical

nandes

formula had discharge

and

scemed & sound one.

manent proch impe

Antonio, a big solid man

minet. cow he Works in a

dressod in neat polester

Norwalk packing plant.

clacks and a crap button.

Likewisee when

down shirt, is a finder in

Oscar

liermander was crafted he

a nearby steel foundry: He

too went willingly, servirg

has caved his money and

se a quand at Da Xang Air

now almost owns his mode

Force base in Ticinam M:.

cai litic pink house winch

til his discharge with tir

br harrio

staariami.

Bronze

siars.

SUn-

comfortable one. He takes

mer. ile had boon looking

pride in it.

for a job over since.

Bashful Woman

"ITe never really talked

Helen, a stout.

hashful much aboad Vietnam. Fix-

woman will a tacch

cept be was glad he dicin't.

scrubber.

have to kill anybody:" says

prone lo twistma pervers-

Melen Hornandes, hcr

ly at her woodtre mgs,

voice she hesitant.

has always bcon

"Oscar never liked to box

mindedly

desoted in her in bigh school rither. he-

duties as a wife and moth

cause he didn't like to hit

er. Never has she even

considered

side her home, though the

She blushed, embar-

Hernandez family: lite

most in the barrio, has at fond her son's passive na-

way's needer more money lure.

than they have had.

Indeed, it soon hecomes

Boln devoted Jehoah's' amply apparent to a stran-

Witnesses, the couple

have also enforced a rigid houschold that making ex-

brand. of religion in their cuses for Derar-who is

household. Their sons

accused of driving the cat

have heen laughi, among

that carried loyce Ann

then things, that tole

Mulis killer-s consid-

ered somehow undigni-

fier, even unpatriotic. in-

solar as it might imply a

fear that the

system of justice is incapa-

be of discovering truth

sionately on its owl.

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Don in thei

"i've boct

111119

tith

will we don

THoroor.

nicetire.

racier an two of thent

precaut

;!!n

santara

in e

filin

Airs

scud

since wille tearted

1022.

ren-

Mario sade her are fiered ine i

illieta.

miaper family

Pioni.

win will motorent tact

son in coti'.

mirerable

that

kand how the must

he fecline

1 net

fire for

cat, they said!

her child, too, just as t cry

caryaning il water!

home timotel the time"

car Holda Womani

srandchildren-.ttn

bors

and 410

Minister 2 ind

virlor,

he read a lot ot

and

1at.

tealward

helped

10G

around

the

house. Frey morting we

made

thie his together

and irached the diches."

Abruptig, one Tanished

into a back

Mug soon eth a take

ing phoiograph? album,

tood det to be what, in.

her heat. Kirion Homan.

soo conders immutable

Proof

hor

in-

moochee in this

bicarta

episode.

The Book tas filed witl

Pictures Cread had taken

in

firthand

- photos

chitriran.

Waits drohang

reiucong wno hung around

with

Oscar and

Oscar's

friends.

"He loved chiiriren." said

Helon Hermander:

an-

tonio modded rigorous

agreement. She looked

suddenly

grim, as if che

had realised, mayhe

for

the first time, how serious.

li important that pome

might eventually become.

"I haven't.

visitor

jet," she said. self-con-

sciousty admitting she was

"afraid in see that he's

really locked up in jail."

She would probably just

cry, she raid.

But, she added, she's

gotten pust. her initial hys-

seria with a dose of tran-

quilizers-and by having

her telephone

number

changed. Like Mis. Ante-

Jamsbe sas getting h21.

calls at a daily rate.

СиAZ1

tomaty

Ti people live

bied

in a shric hard landli

haid

Sitatel

Manture%,

Wn, a disabled conciretion

worker.

Ai.

however, thore ate only 10

Jus wife itose

is

visiting an ding

brother

in Mexico and his con Mi-

chael, 17 is in jai.

On a recent hot weckday

morning. right family

scuitered

about toc tiny squald live

ing room, dant with the

gingers,

mg tory through tho

house, chasing a singic ra-

rated dog ard, more otten

1 nat

tage of one of their own,

toona pathoge Aven-oldi

hoy: the died-eyed victim of

chicken pos

Sonier Denghite:

On a couch, halt covered

by a shock, Yolanda Rami-

rez, 24, the sonior danghter,

was outshouting a Popere

CatiOOn

Marts

the

many bodies packed

close together without

beneft oi even a fan.

There was

Ramires

television.

Seven-

mnonths pregnant, for the

third time, she was trying

to rosolve tite cucarion of a

315aing

blouse with her

Marina,

21,

SIX

map who sat in his under-

shirt in a corner

somchow projecting rock

solid stability in an other-

wise incredinly

grend unfolding be-

months pregnant, who sat.

methodically

rolling

breakfast beans into iori

les, burrito style, ai the

chr of the room.

A near-moose third

-Were of his four daughe daughter,

Sylvia, mother

ters-all inothers, all un

of tivo of the rampaging

children, sui hulging

of her tight shouts,

ning herself with a purple

had snatched from a

screaming baby who had

spun it wildly in the air

finally 10

knock the fire off her ciga-

ret and get smacked for it.

"God, they'll all get the

that'll be," lamented Syl-

"Well, hell, they all golia

get it sometime," obscrved

Yolanda

sagely,

demon-

strating that, of the three

women, she is by far the

most philosophic.

"None of lis are mai-

riori," sie said,

downrich emoted ric

question,

ensilse the

cas who knocked te my

we all either bums or thiry

dond have the jocone

podd familics."

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 9

---

## Page 10

-.. ...

......

Depraced Children food.

Mial who.

111%.

doser tacons, barii lo cou

hine althought le

Suf

lee tin a severy

:!1'-

tree tore wait.

100,

he called hot let ta!.

forine from de tinest thar

we tale bidon of the obit

er night in a bar fiots.

some fat.

of troth."

ine

chuckle

reishme

1! c

memors of the miltie

squabbie.:

Put coriously, he caid, lie

wonla li do toll the state

to go chove its welfare.

"I want to work. but all I

ever lower was hard labor.

Now; a nola going to hite a

D8pocrold Alexican for

riesk joh? 1.

can barely

even rerd."

Mitond ARDC mid, he

added.

"we'd all wishably

starvo." is ji is.

he's $1.-

000 holind in his house

ter, they!! all probably he

out on the street anyway.

Nonorly lookied very

alarmoi

Nobody looked, either,

like they

erCh

bered their brother Mir

chael, until Ramires sud-

renty reminded thom.

"I don't even have the

money for gas to go see

my son" he said.

The

mood in the room'

changed instantly to se-

riousnesa.

What concerned every-

body present, it seemed,

was not so much Aike's

blight, but rather the of-

fect it would have on his

mother when she rettons

from

Mexico,

sometime

later this weck.

She has suffered from

severe nervous disonders

for years, they said. And

when she finds out what's

• happened to her son.--the

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 10

Wait wish we coul!

got her to stay doten there

¡ill thie to over" lamento

spiris, tehtings another ci

УNТ0:.

shc!!

onething"

wrong.

1gign0,

aisers.

tin: contial.

Misuct: Ronirer.

who

hoe a contin indisputabie

dignit

NOTT!

incom

hancsir.

har

crown somber in his cor-

2121.

"As you can

sce,

it's

mostly just a

questich of

survival, like in a jungle,

for Mexicans like us. We

just live from day to day.

That's why a lot of Chica.

nos hang on to their pride

and

act mad cast-it's all

they goi."

around at his daughters.

who listened, suddenly at.

either heen kicked out. of

or thor had mi

gust, be continued.

One son. 22, was in init

already,

undisclosed

Only his oldest

out of the dorwalk barrio,

although, Hammed distoss-

he had hopes for his

Youngesi son, 15, who was

'a good sturient and a hard

One thing Sure

Meantime. whatever his

said, he knew

one thing

"My son

Mike would

never hurt & kid or he part

of a rotten thing like that.

He may have been mean

sometime, but he would

nol, lake it out on babies."

But, sighed Ramicz, it's

out of his hands now. And

the whole family expects

the winest.

"They'll just ligure he's

a dirty Sterican capable of

antihis.

What

cind

the

coos call it-a joy kalline?

Thay'! proocol just look

him up for good, without

Montine toice alout it,"

said inlands.

Cartrig

cynically:

rhoerparte

to the end.

---

## Page 11

11000 1922hi20 Coulevard

June

29/3

90024:

•Diaorted Darcotor

2HL02201

Revenua

Service

393

Los AngelaS:

Calidorom 90053

Rotezianco, is nude to our totter of July 25: 1972,:

relating to an torostigation we were conducting of that tige

involtany. Defie doovers

2or GeoGenber 1 2920%

800J01. Socusaty

fumber 997-16-3003; and to the

telephone coil betuden

special Agent 04700nt

Go Banjardn of this olfice cad Lon

SelliVaay

at your citieo decatca at 9150 Poet Mail Drive, Bi

Monde, Colid males 92734g.00 Mended: dune 4y

4973.

To sid in your invesciaocion in this mecter, chere.:

ure enclosea tup serge dupLications of artistes whach appeared

Woo Angoles Pree Dress

incues of Hairch 20 trd June 19g

bearing tho

bylane

01 Dolla

Road,

whichis believed to be

another pseudonyn utiliaed by tirs, Coover

This informotion is being fucntched for whatever

acezon may be appropriate.

Very truly yours,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ERENIS REASSIF EPDALM/RE

ATE /0:20-00 BY

JOD D.

MISSON

Assiatant Director in Charge

Enclosures 2

100-199400.

SCARCINO

? - Addressee (RM)

11, - los Angeles (100-19949)

GG1/c11

(5)

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 11

---

## Page 12

RETAiN:

SSC-REDWEST, Wugust 20,1975

Part II, 2.

ALLE TORA A NON CONTAINED

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 12

---

## Page 13

• "TANDARO FORM NO. GA

Office Men.

JUM . UNITED .

GOVERNMENT

TO

:IR. TOLSON

DATE: 12/21/49

TOIJON

FROM : J. P. MOHR

ALL INFORE A ON CONTAINED

SUBJECT: APPLICANT INVESTIGATIONS

HEREIN&

DATE

DO 00 BY SALALMRU

нт.

CLOBR

olavin

Ladd

NIChOLS

ROSON

Tracy

Egan_

Gurnos

Harbo

sohr

The Director has inquired concerning the procedure which

Ponn IngLon

Xг.

quirn

тала

was followed in the Atomic Energy Act applicant case whereby

Tolo.

Neaso

the Hashington Field Office was not alerted to the fact that

M133 Gandy.

Harold Ickes, whose name was given as a reference, should not be

interurewed.

There is attached a

memorandum dated December 20, 1949 frOm

Mr. Rosen to ur. Ladd with respect to the specifio atomic energy case

mentioned, namely Ired Ernest Schnepfe, who had given Harold Ickes

as a rejerence on his PSQ or application form.

from a reading of the

attached memorandum which was prepared by section Chief G. C. Callan

of the Applicant section, it is obvious that the supervisors uno handle

applicani matters in the Investigative Division do not have any policy

with respect to the interurewing of rejerences, former employers,.

associates or others except where the Bureau has specifically indicated

that certain individuals should not be contacted, such as Henry Steele

commager, personnel of CBS and the like. As a matter of fact, the

present policy in effect it the seat of Government concerning applicant

investigations is to interview all references and the attached memorandum

indicates that Harold Ickes had been interviewed in the past in connec

tion with applicant investigations and has exhibited a cooperative

attitude. It would seem, therefore, that no action should be taken

with respect to the supervisory personnel at the seat of Government con

cerning the referral of Harold Ickes' name to the Hashington Field

Office for interview in connection with the stomic Energy Act case:'"

mentioned.

As you know, at the Executives conference the Director's wishes

with regard to interviewing persons who have demonstrated hostile.

attitudes toward the Bureau have been considered in the past ond no

instructions have been issued to the supervisors at the seat of Gover

ment or to the field concerning this matter except as to specific in

dividuals

whose names have been sent to the field in the recent post

in an SAC letter. This matter was called to the attention of the

Executives conference as recently as December 20, 1919 and the Confer-

ence felt it would be undesirable for the Bureau

gram of aduising the field to not interview certain individuals in

connection with various types of investigations conducted by the Bureau.

The Executives Conference realized that the hostile attitule toward the

Bureau stèms not from our criminal investigative work but fron the

Bureau's investigative activity in the jield of applicant

investigatiors

and

the Loyalty program. The Conference feels that the blacklisting

of individuals is fundamentally bod and will ultimately result in ei

treme embarrassment to the Bureau.

COPT DESTROYED

IRFCORONA

is also felt it is extremely

15-1220; -

:.19.1

N85360" Docid: 32989645 Page 13 .

---

## Page 14

jifficult to draft a letter to all sAd's pointing up the problem to

them and expecting them to adhere to any policy which will eliminate

the difficulty which we have encountered heretofore.

I have discussed this matter with dr. Carison in some detail

and he jeels that we may be. able to control to some extent the inter

viewing of persons hostile to the iureau at the seat of Government

without furnishing a "black list" or statement of policy to the field.

Ir. Carison feels, and I agree with hin, that the major portion of our

aifficulty stems from the Loyalty investigations and applicant investi

gations.

Iro Carison and I therefore propose that the following pro-

cedure be instituted immediately at the seat of Government in order to

meet the objectives desired by the Director in connection with this

matter:

I. The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing

and maintaining in a current status a list of those individuals known

to be hostile to the bureau. It is felt that' it is imperative that a

list bé prepared. because the judgment of individual Supervisors re-

ferring cases to the field will differ depending upon the extent of

their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of

various and sundry periodicals.

It would also mean that each superuisor

would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor to depend on a

saulty memory. Furthermore, an individual may at one time appear to be

hostile to the bureau and subsequently his attitude may change and it

may be very desirable to intervier him.

2. This list shall be furnished to only those supervisors at the.

seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty

or applicant cases

to the field. This will include supervisors in the

Loyalty section of the security Division, the Applicant Section of the

Investigative Division and those supervisors in the Administrative

Division handling Bureau applicant cases

This will mean that not more

than 25 supervisors at most at the seat of Government will have pos-

session of such a list. These supervisors shall check all references

and present and former employers against this list bejore referring

the case to the field for investigation.

It should be realized that the procedure recommended will not

provide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or

associates whose names are brought up during the course of the inves-

tigation.

It is felt, however,

that the bulk of the people who are

interviewed in these cases are

set out as references by the applicant

and it would only be on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the

Bureau will be interviewed on a neighborhood investigation or as an

associate of the applicant.

-2 -

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 14:

---

## Page 15

timpaso годм. 10. 66

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ALL INFOR ITION CONTAINED

HEREIMA

, TO

: THE DIRECIOR DATE 10:2000 BY SPALMIRL

DATE: 1/4/50

FROM : THE EXECUTIVES CONFERENCE

SUBJECT:

WeX 01989

TO180n

172444

Mr.

Ladd

Nichols:

TraCy

The

Executives Conference of January 4, 1950,

consist

structions, considered the attached memorandum of December 21.

respect to the procedures in conducting applicant lait.

investation ant particularl the method suggested to avoidinters ge

views with those individuals having a hostile or critical attitude,

toward the bureau and its work.

It was pointed out to the Conference that apparently the

hostility and criticism of the bureau stem not from our normal day to

day criminal investigative work but to a very slight extent to inves

tigations in the Internal security field and very specifically and

¡definitely to applicant and Loyalty investigations.

It was feit that

is some procedure could be devised to avoid interviews with individuals

in applicant type cases where the individuals have exhibited a hostile

or critical attitude toward the bureau that much could be accomplished

to eliminate the difficulties experienced in the past. The conjerence

felt it would be undesirable to prepare a list of any sort which might

¡be termed a

"blacklist" to be distributed to all of the divisional

offices.

It was proposed that the following procedure be instituted

immediately at the seat of Government in order to meet the objectives

desired by the Director in connection with this matter:

I. The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing

and maintaining in o current status a list of those

indiviquals, Enown

to be hostile to the Bureau. It is felt that it is imperative that a

list be prepared because the judgment of individual superuisors re-

ferring cases to the field will differ depending upon the extent of

their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of

various and sundry periodicals.

It would also mean that each supervisor

would hauè to either prepare his oun list or endeavor to depend on a

jaulty memory. Furthermore, on individual may at one time appear to be

hostile to the burecu and subsequently his attitude may change and it

may be very desirable to interview hi the salied of a memo.

Each and to he

2. This list shall be furnished to only those Supervisors at the

seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty

or applicant cases to the field.

This will include supervisors in the

Loyalty section of the security Division, the Applicant section of the

Investigative Division and those supervisors in the Administrative

Division hanaling bureau applicant cases.

This will nean that not more

than 25 superuisors at most at the seat of Government will have pos

session of such a list. These supervisors shall check all references

and present and fomer employers agatorseshis list before referring

the case to the field for investigation.

Attlerse.

INDEXED -

29 1950

NW 65380P10oala 32989645 Page 15152..).

LABO

---

## Page 16

It was pointed out that the procedure recommended will not

provide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or subjects

under investigation in connection with the Loyalty program nor would it

provide against interuiews of associates whose nomes are brought up

during the course of the investigation. Likewise it would not provide

against interviews. with college professors whose names were not given

by the applicant or the Loyalty subject as references, but who are

contacted. in the course of the ordinary investigation.

It was jelt,

however, that the bulk of the people who are interviewed in these

cases are set out as references by the applicant and it would only be

on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the Bureau would be inter

viewed in a neighborhood investigation, as an associate or as a college

professor.

"It was also unanimously recommended by the Conference that in

specific individual has manifested hostility or unjust criticism against

the Bureau that the specific jield office or offices which would likely

contact the individual be advised in writing in the form of a Personal

and Confidential SaC letter. In these letters the SAC will be instructed

that it is his responsibility to aduise all of the Agents in the office

of the undesirability of contacting the individual in question without

prior Bureau authority.

The field will be instructed that in address-

ing their communications to the Bureau requesting authority to contact

such individuals, the letter or communication should not contain the

phraseology that

the interview will be conducted unless aduised to the

contrary but specific approval must be obtained from the Bureau bejore

such a contact is made.

Should the Director agree with the recommendations of the

conference set forth in this memorandum, appropriate steps will be

taken to inaugurate the policy recommended.

Respectfully,

For the Conference

o1h.

Glyde Tolson

CG - uT. Clegg

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 16

---

## Page 17

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SAC LET

R 66-78

UNITED STATES DEPARTHEVT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ar. Keply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535.

December 15, 1966

RE: COURTNEY A EVANS

PERSON NOT TO BE CONTACTED

On December 10, 1966, Senator Robert F. Kennedy released

to the press a copy of a letter to him dated February 17, 1966, from

former Assistin Director Courtney A. Evans. In direct contradiction

to official memc. auda prepared by Evans for Bureau files during the

early 1960's., his February 17, 1966, letter to Kennedy stated that

Evans! did not discuss the use of "microphones by the FLe with Kennedy

during his tenure as Attorney General--nor did Evans "know of any

written material that was sent to you"' (Kennedy) "at any time concerning"

microphone surveillances.

In view of; Evans' obvious lack of integritv, distegard for

the truth and duplicity toward the FBI, he should net be contacted

without prior Bureau approval.

Very truly yours,

par

ahoover

tonn Edgar labover

Director

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 17

---

## Page 18

an OPTIONAL CORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES C

/

• Memorar

• TO

Mir. Belmont Ba

FROM :

C. A. Evans

SUBJECT:

KORGANIZED CRIME AND

RACKETEERING SECTION..

OF THE DEPARTNENT

DATE: July 7, 1961

Tolson .

Mohi -

Callahan -

i conrad -

De Loach !

Evan: -*

malono -

Rosen

Sullivan =

Tavel :

Trotter

Tele, Room

ingram -

Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MERE VS20.00

DATE

in line with the Director's approval, the Attorney General was

contacted this morning, July 7, 1961, relative to his observation as to the

possibility of utilizing "electronic devices" in organized crime investigations.

It was pointed out to the Attorney General that we had taken action

with regard to the use of microphone surveillances in these cases and while

they represented an expensive investigative step, we were nevertheless utilizing

them in all instances where this was technically feasible and where valuable

information might be expected. The strong objections to the utilization of

telephone taps as contrasted to microphone surveillances was stressed.

The

Attorney General stated he recognized the reasons why telephone taps should

be restricted to national-defense type cases and he was pleased we had been

using microphone surveillances where these objections do not apply wherever

possible in organized crime matters.

The Attorney General noted that he had approved several technical

surveillances in connection with security-type investigations since he took

office, but that he had not kept any record and didn't really know what he had

approved and what surveillances were currently in operation. He said that for

his own information he would like to see a list of the technical surveillances

now in operation. He added that this could be brought over to him personally

and that he would look it over and immediately return it because he realized

the importance of having these records maintained under the special security

conditions which only the FBI had.

If the Director approves, we will have the list of technical

then returned to the Bureau's file.

surveillances prepared, delivered per suity to the Attorney General and

BliC +17

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. J. D. Donohue

20

NW 65360-Docld:32989645-Page-18-

---

## Page 19

- OPTION. I PORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

* 1

N7

TO

Nir. Belmont

DATE: August 17, 1961

FROM

C. A. Evans

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele, Room

Ingram.-

Gandy

SUBJECT:

MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCES

11.

The Attorney General was contacted on the morning of August i7, 1961,

with reference to the situation in New York City concerning the obtaining of

leased lines from the telephone company for use in connection with microphone

surveillances. This mater was aiscussed with the Attorney General and he

was shown a specimen copy of the proposed letter which would be used. The

Attorney General approved the proposed procedure in this regard and personally

signed the attached raemorandum evidencing such approval.

Enclosure

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. Sullivan

CAE:sp PP

- 8-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNCLASSI

ENCLOSURE

REC- 51

64-51n

artacars

17 AUG 31-1968

-1032

1)0"

CEP 1410944

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 19

---

## Page 20

TOP SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURIAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Repiy, Please Rejor to

Filo No.

WASHINGION 25. D. C.

August 17, 1961

In connection with the use of microphone

surveillances it is frequendly necessary to lease a special telephone.

line in order to monitor such a surveillance. These situations

occur when it is impossible to locate a secure monitoring point

in the irmediate vicinity of the premises covered by the microphone.

Even though a special telophone line is utdized, this activity in

no way involves any interception of telephonic communications and

is noi a ielephone tap.

In the New York City area the telephone company

has over the years insisted thai a letter be furnished to the telephone

company on eaci occasion when a special telephone line is leased by

the 231.

It is required that such a lease arrangement be with the

approval of the Attorney General. In the pest we have restricted

the utilization of leased lines in New Yor's City to situations involving

telephone taps, all of which have been approved by tiù ittorney General.

We have not previcusly used leased es in connection

with microphone surveillances because of certain technical carriculties

which exisied in New York City. These technical difficulties have,

however, now been overcome.

ii we are permitted to use leased telephone

lines as an adjunct to our microphone survalances, this type of coverage

can be materially extendeú both in securily and major criminal cases.

Accordingly, your approval of our utilizing this leased line arrangerent

is requested. A sample oi the letter which it is proposed will be sent

to the telezone company it a leased line is secured in connection wit

microphone surveillances is attached.

M! "!!!

L..:

Approved:

Date:

NW 65360 Docld 32989645 Page 20-

---

## Page 21

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

" OPTis

5. 10

M."r

5010-108

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITEL STATES & VERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Bishop

M.

A

dones

NOT TO CONTACT LIST

DATE:

7-11-72

DERE YO: 20

BY SPRAL a

Fell.

Bates

*Bishop

'Cái chan

Cangbell

Cleveland

Conrad

Dalboy

Jenking.

Marshall

Miller, E.S.

Ponder -

Soyars -

Walters -

Tr.k. Room

Mr. Armstrong -

Ms. Horwig

Mrs. Neenan -

The Not To Contact list is a card index of 332 in-

dividuals whose statements or attitude, generally when contacted

on oificial business, gave rise to doubts as to the advisability

When a person was placed on the

Not Io Contact list, the Field Office covering the residence

or occupation or both was advised that this particular individual

should not be contacted without prior Bureau authority. Thus,

the Not To Contact list did not prohibit future contact, but

specified it could be made only after clearance with the Bureau.

Examples of the type of individuals on this list

are sei furii belun.

- DE. Vannevar

DI. Bush was placed on

the Not Io Contact list in June, 1964, at

which time he was connected with the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology.. He was so designated

when he made derogatory statements concerning the

•Bureau when contacted on an applicant-type case.

Rex' Stout: Rex Stout is an author who was

designated for this list in 1965 because of his then-

new mystery novel, "The Doorbell Rang."

This novel

presented a highly distorted and most unfavorable

picture of the FBI in its operations as they relate

to the plot of the book.

Enclosure - Sent 7-13-72

REC-30

1 - Mr. Felt

-

Mr. Bishop

EX 101

1

541

FARESE

Mr. Bates

1

-

Mr. Callahan

1

-

Mr. Cleveland

1 - Mr. Conrad

- Mr. Dalby

- Mr. Jenkins

- Mr. Miller

- Mr. Ponder

- Mr. Soyars

- Mr. Walters

1

-M. A. Jones

20 JUL 18 1972

CRIME RASCAROS

DGH: dim

(15).2.

OBSERVATIONS & RECOMMENDATIONS

CONTINUED OVER

...

IW 65360 Docld:32989645 Pag

---

## Page 22

1

M. A. Jones to Mr. Bishop Memo

RE:

NOT TO CONTACT LIST

OBSERVATIONS:

It is not felt that the list continues to serve

a useful purpose, and it is further believed that the

responsibility of restricting contact with a person who is

antagonistic toward the FBI or law enforcement in

general

should be that of the Agent in Charge.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

to all offices.

1. That the attached memorandum be forwarded

That if approved, the attached memorandum

be returned to the Crime Records Division for dissemination

to the field.

Maried.

114/72

Our goo

808

10:57 Pas

2

_NW 65360_Docld:32989645 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SAC, Albany

Acting Director, aBI

July 13, 1972

Mile -

' pit too

11

NOT TO CONTACT LIST

As you know, in the past fron, time to time,

various individuals have been placed on captioned list.

This action has been taken because of derogatory statements

or adverse action regarding the FBI or lay enforcement agencies

in general by the individuals involved.

This is to advise you that the Not Io Contact

list is being discontinued, and you should use your

own best judgment if a question arises as to the desirability

ot a particular contact in an investigative matter.

ALL I FOPENTION CONTAINED

1 ~ All Other Field Offices

REC 43

542

NOTE:

See M. A. Jones to Bishop Memo, captioned, "Not to

Contact List," dated 7-11-72.

DGH : djm

(6)

19 JUL 1719787-20 14

Felt

Bates

Bishop

Callahan

Campbel!

Cleveland

Conrad

Dalbey

Jenking

Marshall

Miller, E.S.

Ponder

Soyars

Walters

Tele, Room -

Hr. Kinley

Mr. Armstrong-

13. Herwig —

Neenan -

MALLER E

JUL 1 4 1972

"FBI

118

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 23

N

---

## Page 24

SSC-RequesT, August 20, 1975

PART I(3) foR delivery 9-9-75

UNEXCISED -

• .

Alik.

EREW

AINED

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 24

---

## Page 25

1. Information identifies a peculiarly sensitive

foreign intelligence operation.

2.

Information identifies a peculiarly sensitive

ongoing foreign intelligence operation.

3. Information identifies a

foreign intelligence

agency.

4. Information identifies another U.S. Government

agency:

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 25

---

## Page 26

PART I (3) for delivery 9-9-75

-ANEXCISED -

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 26

---

## Page 27

TO

FROM

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1O

5010-100

MAY 1962 EDITION

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

ALL SUPERVISORS - LATIN-AFRICAN,

RESEARCH-SATELLITE, NATIONAL- DATE:

ITIES INTELLIGENCE AND SOVIET SECTIONS

#. R. HANNALL

SECRET

(Revised)

August 10, 1967

COPY NO.

SUBJECT:

CONTROL - REFERENCE FILES

Attached is a document which hag been iszued in all

Sections to serve as a ready reference for all Supervisors.

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLAOSIFIED EXCEP

It is designed (1) to enable Supervisors to channel

newspaper clippings, publications data, and other material to

spocific files where it can be readily located for use then

needed (quick reierence to this document will enable you to

dosignate naterial for logical file by file number); (2) to

elininate creation of unnecessary control or reference files

already exists; (3) to provida Supervisor with ready

reference titles to utilize when writing naterial of general

nature; (4) to provide a new Supervisor with a starting point

familiar with background of work under his

supervision; and (5) to enable Supervisors to have available

WHERE

Revisions and additions are being issued as they are

Each Supervisor should furnish suggested additions

and revisions as they occur so document will be current and

workable. The cooperation of each Supervisor is needed to keep

it conplete and up

to date. Send suggested revisiong or

additions to #. R. Harnall, Room 614 - 98D.

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr -

Bishop

Carpis

Callahan

Conred.

Felt -

Gols

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

10-2100

CLASSIFIED BY SPLALM CL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X14-011

#MDR-16

Classifi

Why

Exemp/ isom GDS

Tary Vall

Date Si Dectassical

tion Indefinite!

-SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 1

- Revised

August

10, 1967

_ NW 65360 Docld:32989645. Page 27

---

## Page 28

TONTROL FILES SET UP WITH

TANDARD

FOREIGN SUB-FILE LIST

-SECRET

Files listed below are applicable to all countries

simply by addition of the sub-file number of the particular

country.

(See Standard Sub-File list for Foreign Countries

which follows this listing.)

In many instances

the sub-file

may not have been made up yet because it has not been needed.

However, if you designate material for such sub-files, the

sub-file will be made up where presently nonexistent.

In the

event you desire to use one of these files for correspondence

you are not bound by the precise title here.

The titles should

likewise be made applicable to each country by addition of the

country name, for example

"Diplomatic List - Hungary."

File

Eile Number

65-62456

Clandestine Shipments of Material

to Russia and Satellite Countries

Communist Party

Current Soviet Espionage and Subversive

Activities

' Defectors

Diplomatic List

Diplomatic or International

Urganization Visa Holders

Economic Matters

Exchange of Cultural Relations (or

Educational Exchanges)

Foreign

Funds Outside the U.S.

Foreign

Miscellaneous

Foreign Political Matters

Inquiries to the State Department

Regarding Relatives, Property and Funds

in Foreign Countries

• (or Requests for

Information from Foreign Countries)

Intelligence Matters

Labor Conditions

Legal Attaches Informants, Sources, $2

and Contacts

Legal Attaches - Accomplishments

Military and Naval Matters

National Intelligence Survey

National Group Coverage

Police Matters

Political Matters

Smuggling Activities

Social Conditions

105-20964

64-200

64-211

100-357681

62-6404

105-16424

110-6

64-25441

112-8

64-175

109-12

64-27223

65-63987

100-341561

64-41235

64-44362

113-7

64-35693

105-97459

64-29833

109-12

64-309

111-1

Control - Reference Files

Revised Page 2

December 5,

1962

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Control Files Set Up with Standard

Eoreign Sub-File List

Soviet Diplomatic Activities (SODAC) •

United Nations Delegation

United Nations Personnel

Visa Applicants

SECRET

64-211

62-77787

62-77787

105-7

for more specialized files,

country of see special category files which are fisted later.

SECREE

Control - Reference Files

Page 2a

December 5, 1962

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 29

---

## Page 30

siidt.=

..

SECRET

COUNTRY

ADEN

AFGHANISTAN

ALBANIA

ALGERIA

ANDORRA

ANGOLA

ANGUILLA

ARGENTINA

ARMENIA

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

AZORES

BAHAMA ISLANDS (NASSAU)

BAHRAIN (OR BAHREIN) ISLANDS 410

• BARBADOS

BELGIUM

BERMUDA ISLANDS

BHUTAN

BOLIVIA

BORNEO

BOTSWANA

BRAZIL

BRITISH HONDURAS

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

COUNTRY

395

BRITISH WEST INDIES

321

BULGARIA

273

BURMA

278

BURUNDI

281

BYELORUSSIAN

380

CAMBODIA

418

CAMEROUN

201

CANADA

308

CANARY ISLANDS

303

CAPE VERDE ISLANDS

252

CENTRAFRICAN REPUBLIC

310

• CEYLON

202

• CHAD

CHILE

417

CHINA (COMMUNIST)

254

CHINA (NATIONALIST)

203

COLOMBIA

371

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

(KINSHASA)

204

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

293

(BRAZZAVILLE)

404

COSTA RICA

205

CUBA

206

CURACAO

SUBFILE

324

261

264

407

329

364

369

243

291

292

390

266

388

207

246

274

208

336

391

209

210

298

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 30

SCOREE,

Control-Reference Files

Page 3

Revised April 25, 1969

---

## Page 31

COUNTRY

CYPRUS

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

DAHOMEY

DANZIG

DENMARK

-DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ECUADOR

EGYPT

ENGLAND

EQUATORIAL GUINEA

ESTONIA

ETHIOPIA

ERITREA

FAR EAST

FIJI ISLANDS

FINLAND

FRANCE

FRENCH WEST INDIES

FRENCH WEST AFRICA

GABON

GAMBIA

GERMANY (WEST--GENERAL)

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 31

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

-SECREE

SUBF ILE

277

263

385

309

256

211

212

259

241

377

283'

313 :

356

352

402

255

231

341

343

392

401

232

SEEREL

COUNTRY

GERMANY (EAST)

GHANA (GOLD COAST)

GREECE

GREENLAND

GUAM

GUATEMALA

GUIANA (DUTCH)

GUIANA (FRENCH)

GUINEA

GUYANA (FORMERLY BRITIS

GUIANA)

HAITI

HONDURAS

HONG KONG

HUNGARY

ICELAND

INDIA

INDONESIA

IRAN

IRAQ

IRELAND

ISRAEL

ITALY

SUBF ILE

397

366

253

360

333

213

215

¿16

378

214

Li7

218

295

314

257

331

251

282

311

345

233

Control-Referenc! Files

Page 4

Revised February 6, 195

---

## Page 32

COUNTRY

IVORY COAST

JAMAICA

JAPAN

JAVA

JORDAN

• KENYA

KOREA

KOREA

KUWAIT

LAOS

LATVIA

LEBANON

LEEWARD ISLANDS

BASUTOLAND)

LIBERIA

LIBYA

LITHUANIA

LUXEMBOURG

MACAO

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

386

219

234

289

332

325

265

381

367

365

294

287

220

412

297

300

262

280

362

COUNTRY

MACEDONIA

MADAGASCAR

MALAGASY REPUBLIC

MALAWI

MALAYSIA

MALAYA

MALDIVE ISLANDS

MALI

MALTA

MANCHURIA

MARTINIQUE

MAURITANIA

MAURITIUS ISLAND

MEXICO

MIDDLE EAST (ALSO NEAR

EAST) .

MONACO

MONGOLIA

MOZAMBIQUE

MOROCCO

SUBFILE

346

335

335

326

405

279

414

384

340

275

230

398

394

221

350

363

271

276

235

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 5

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 32

---

## Page 33

COUNTRY

NEAR EAST (ALSO MIDDLE

EAST)

NEPAL

NETHERLANDS

NETHERLANDS EAST INDIES

NEW CALEDONIA

NEW HEBRIDES

NEW ZEALAND

NEWFOUNDLAND

NICARAGUA

NIGER

- NIGERIA

NORTH KOREA

NORWAY

NYASALAND; MALAWI

PAKISTAN

PALESTINE

PANAMA

PAPUA; TERRITORY OF PAPUA

PARAGUAY

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

COUNTRY

350

353

258

247

269

400

320

338

222

387

323

265

260

326

342

248

223

224

PERU

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

POLAND

PORTUGAL

PORTUGUESE GUINEA

QUATAR

RUMANIA

RUSSIA

RYUKYU ISLANDS

RWANDA

SALVADOR

SAMOA

SAN MARINO

SARDINIA

SAUDI ARABIA

SCOTLAND

SENEGAL

SIERRA LEONE

SINGAPORE

SECREE

SUBFILE

225

239

250

236

403

415

244

240

368

408

226

358

299

318

245

285

393

355

316

Control-Reference Files

Page 5a

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 69360 Docld:32989645 Page 33

---

## Page 34

COUNTRY

SOLOMON ISLANDS (BRITISH)

SOMALI REPUBLIC

SOUTH AFRICA

SOUTH KOREA

SOUTH WEST AFRICA

• SOUTHEAST ASIA

SOUTHERN RHODESIA

SPAIN®

SUDAN

SUMATRA

SURINAM

SWAZILAND

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

SYRIA

TAHITI

TANZANIA

THAILAND

TOGO

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

COUNTRY

SUBFILE

409

349

317

265

382

413

327

237

339

284

215

416

267

268

286

375

373

288

372

TONGA ISLANDS

TRANSYLVANIA

TRANS JORDAN

TRIESTE

TRINIDAD

TRUCIAL STATES

TIBET

TUNISIA

TURKEY

UGANDA

UKRAINE

UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

• UPPER VOLTA

URUGUAY

VATICAN CITY

VENEZUELA

VIET MINH-- DEMOCRATIC

REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

VIETNAM

VIRGIN ISLANDS

- SECRET.

374

312

332

337

229

406

344

296

238

322

329

376

390

227

359

228

370

330

315

Control-Reference Files

Page 6

Revised April 25,

1969

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 34g.

-.

---

## Page 35

:

-SECRET

COUNTRY

VOLTAIC REPUBLIC

WALES

WEST IRIAN

YEMEN

YUGOSLAVIA

ZAMBIA

STATELESS

• STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

AREAS

390

328

357

334

272

351

361

ASIA

AFRICA

CENTRAL AMERICA

EUROPE

LATIN AMERICA

MIDDLE EAST

NORTH AMERICA

SOUTH AMERICA

WESTERN HEMTSPHERE

SUBFILE

301

302

354

304

307

350

305

306

307

Control-Reference Files

Page 6a

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 35g,

---

## Page 36

-SECRET

:

In connection with the operation of various control files

there may be set up a complete or partial group of subfiles for each

out belowice. For ready reference, the standard subfile list is set

Office

Albany

Albuquerque

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

• Houston

Indianapolis

Jackson

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Subfile

Office

Memphis

Miami

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

New York

Norfolk

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoenix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San. Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Seattle

Springfield

Tampa

Washington Field

-SECRET

Subfile

28

29

30

43

61

31

32

33

34

56

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

52

64

53

:

Control-Reference Files

Page 6b Revised

January 24, 1966

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 36

---

## Page 37

COUNTRY LISTINGS

-SECRET

This list has been compiled fron available sources and on

basis of data furnished by Supervisors.

It is only as complete as

each Supervisor desires to make it.

Many countries do not appear

simply because

no separate listings were found or warranted.

AFRICA

African Activities in the U. S.

ALBANIA

Albanian Activities in the U. S.

Albanian Funds

Albanian Intelligence Activities Abroad

Albanian Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Albanian Intelligence Service

Americans Residing in Albania

Movement of Albanian Nationals

Repatriation of Emigres to Albania

Soviet - Albania Relations

Visitors to Albania

ARGENTINA

Argentine

Activities in the U. S.

Argentine Intelligence Service

Argentine Revolutionary Activities

ARMENIA

Armenian Activities in the U.s.

Armenian Publications in the U.S.

Armenian Revolutionary Federation

Armenian Intelligence Activities

Armenian Repatriation Activities

AUSTRIA

Austrian Activities in the U. S.

Austrian Funds

Movement of Austrian Nationals

Relationship Between Austria and Soviet Russia

AUSTRALIA

Vustralian Secúrity Intelligence Organization (ASIO)

105-87964

100-211013

65-33033

100-353164

100-78816

100-353164

105-65671

100-354033

105-39234

65-58215

105-94414

65-46146

65÷57185

105-137559

100-196469

105-12157

61-1364

105-19483

100-341862

100-114854

65-32065

105-49050

65-56877

62-74549

Control-Reference Files

Page 7 - Revised

August 10, 1967

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 37 p,

---

## Page 38

oh until

BRAZIL

BraziTian National Security Council

Brazilian Socialist Party

Communist Party of Brazil (CPB--Chinese Faction)

BULGARIA

Americans Residing in Bulgaria

Bulgarian Activities in the United States

Bulgarian Defectors

Bulgarian Diplomatic Activities in the U. s.

Bulgarian Embassy - Italy

Bulgarian Embassy - Paris

Bulgarian Funds

Bulgarian Intelligence Activities in the U.s.

Bulgarian Intelligence Service

Bulgarian Legation

Bulgarian National Council

Bulgarian National Committee

Bulgarian National Front of America, Inc.

Bulgarian Repatriation

Bulgarian Trade Unions

Bulgarian Visitors to Spain

Movement of Bulgarian Nationals

Relationships Between Bulgaria and the U. S.

Visitors to Bulgaria

CANADA

Relations with RCMP *3

Security of Canadian

and Mexican Borders

Security of Canadian Border

CHINA

Americans in Communist China

China Daily News

Chinese

Aliens Entering the U. S.

(Formerly 105-76690

re aliens and 105-86568 re students)

Chinese Communist Activities (Use standard sub-file list

for field offices and foreign countries)

Chinese Communist Activities in the United Nations

Chinese

Communist Activities in Racial Matters

Chinese Communist Contacts with Scientists in U. S.

Chinese Communist Couriers

Chinese Communist Intelligence Biographic Data Album

Chinese Communist Intelligence Operations in U. s.

Chinese Communist Intelligence Operations

in Foreign

Countries

64-35551

109-498

105-143939

100-360958

100-66

100-357681-261

100-347211

62-81474

105-92334

65-34794

100-356259

62-82654

65-38869

105-94207

100-361364

105-82043

105-38885

105-48241

105-73018

100-354032

65-38868

105-94413

62-35717

62-60366

100-426407

100-362994

100-196148

105-135923

100-40

105-41561

105-158698

105-168542

105-144471

105-147569

65-53286

65-65807

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 8

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 38

---

## Page 39

CRET

CHINA (Continued)

Chinese Entering

the U. S. Claiming U. S. Citizenship

105-12752

Chinese Embassy, Washington, D. C.

62-55263

Chinese Employees in United

Nations Secretariat (CHISEC)

105-142165

Chinese

Funds

105-159163

Chinese

Nationalist Party (KUOMINTANG)

100-81019

Chinese Nationalist Intelligence Activities in U.S.

105-48030

Chinese Seamen Deserters

105-129735

Chinese Security Investigations (FBI Schools and Training)

1-6830

Chinese Universities and Graduate Schools

105-137333

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Intelligence Operations

for overseas $62 + 884105-60238)

Communist Infiltration of Chinese Nationalist Diplomatic

and Official Establishments in the U.S.

Communist Infiltration of Chinese Students in the U.S.

105-52794

105-12536

counterintelligence Operations Against Chinese Communist *

2

Intelligence Operations in the U.S. (CHICOIN)

Foreign Assets Control

New China News Agency

Sino-Soviet Relations (Political)

Unauthorized Travel by U. S. Citizens to Communist China

U. S. Residents Traveling to Hong Kong

105-135614

105-13771

100-369921

65-52604

105-156647

105-144107

Visitors to Communist China and Contacts by U. S. Residents

with Chinese Communist Diplomatic Establishments (CABBAGE)

105-144424

COSTA RICA

Costa Rican Revolutionary Activities

109-652

CUBA

American Communists' Participation in. Cuban Activities

Anti-Fidel Castro Activities

Communist Penetration of Cuban Diplomatic Establishments

Cuban Acts of Violence Against U. S. Citizens

Cuban Activities in Puerto Rico

Cuban Activities in the United States

Cuban Censorship

Cuban Consulate, Tampica, Mexico

Cuban Embassy, Belgium

Cuban Embassy, Canada

Cuban Embassy,

France

Cuban Embassy, Italy

Cuban Embassy, Mexico

•Cuban Embassy, Philippines

Cuban Embassy, Spain

105-88457

109-584

105-89084

64-47305

64-47532

105-83195

64-23200

105-152962

65-67286

105-35674

65-68514

62-108562

105-93893

105-104333

65-55759

Control-Reference Files

Page 9

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 65360 Docid:32989645 Page 39E.

---

## Page 40

CUBA (Continued)

‹Cuban Emergency Plans

Cuban Funds

Cuban Government in Exile

Cuban Government's Supression of Religion

Cuban Intelligence Activities in the United States

cuban Matters - Counterintelligence Program/

Cuban Mission to the United Nations

Cuban Prisoner Exchange

Cuban Propaganda Activities in the United States

Cuban Rebel Activities

in Cuba

Cuban Refugee Problem in the United States

Cuban Subversion Toward Latin America

•Cuba's Relations with Soviet-bloc Countries

Organization of Solidarity of the Peoples of Africa, Asia,

and Latin America (OSPAALA)

Radio Havana (Maria Montero Triana)

Tri-Continental Conference

105-97549

62-105411

105-95357

64-47544

105-80787

105-99938>

62-77787-210

105-99200

64-45716

105-95461

105-93163

109-653

64-47156

105-15543

100-445759

105-146802

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 9a

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 65360 Docid:32989645 Page 40

---

## Page 41

CUBA (Continued)

Fair Play for Cuba Committee

Fidel Castro

Individuals Offering Services in Cuban Crisis

july 26 Movement

rossinle Penetration et culnan nteldigence service xx/

Through Radio Havana

Prensa Latina

Travel Controls - Cuba

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

American Embassy, Prague

Americans Residing in Czechoslovakia

CEDOK (Official Czech Travel Agency)

Czech Activities in the U. S.

Czech

Diplomatic

Activities

in New York

Czech Diplomatic Áctivities in Mexico

Czech Diplomatic Activities in Washington, D. C.

Czech Diplomatäc Couriers

Czechoslovakian Embassy, Italy

Czechoslovakian Embassy, Paris

Czech Funds

Czech Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Czech

Legation, Ottawa,

Canada

Czech Refugee Activities

Czech security Service

Exiles' Movement for Return to the Homeland (HEPND)

Expose

Information and Cultural

Activities of Czech

Embassys

Washington, D. C.

Movement

of Crech Narionais

Relationship Between Czechoslovakia and the

United States

United Nations Personnel • Czechoslovakia

Visitors

to Crechoslovakia

CEDArO

MILENRI

97-4196

109-539

105-114340

• 109-551

105-151673

105-80145

105-7-210

62-81260

105-65672

105-60680

61-10730

105-11768

100-348756

105-14537

105-68715

65-65910

65-58268

65-31621

65-38136

100-350422

105-10686

100-340678

105-36620

65-60545

105-74665

100-354029

65-42908

62-77787-263

105-93942

-SECRET-

Control-Reference Files

Page 10

Revised October 14, 1966

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 41

---

## Page 42

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Connunist IniTItration of Dominican Exile Groups

Dominican Acilvitias in the U. S.

Doninican Funds

Dominican Intelligence Activities

Dominican Intelligence Agents in the U. S.

Doninican Lobbying Activities in the U.S.

Dominican Revolutionary Activities

Embassy of the Dominican Republic, Hashington, D. C.

EGYPT

Egyptian Consulate, New York City

Bgyptian Diplomatic Activities in the

U.s.

Egyptian Embassy, Washington, D. C.

Egyptian Intelligence Service

Rapprochement Between Russia and the Arab Nations

ESTONIA

Lorement of Estonian Nationals

Organizationg of Estonian-Americans

in the U. S.

Repatriation of Enigres to Estonia

FAR BAST

Far East Situation

FINLAND

Finnisn

• Activities in the U. S.

Finnish

Embassy, Washington,

Finnish Intelligence Activities in the U. s.

Hovenent of rinnisn NaizonaLs

FRANCE

Embassy of France, Washington, D. C.

Fench Consulate, New York City

Relations pith service de vocumentation Exterioure et

de Contre-Espionage (SDECK)

French Activities - Genergl

French Intelligence Activities

GERMANY

Abwehr

Berlin Situation

East German Intelligence Service

East German Activities in Cuba

East German Propaganda

-SECRET

105-91529

100-237194

105-105050

105-93789

105-83709

105-95904

105-77731

65-47134

62-101947

105-52622

65-58070

65-58530

105-21904

100-354578

105-11188

105-42034

62-73361

65-1440

65-40289

65-56811

100-304U46

65-30150

65-41022

100-189258

65-29441

105-154506

65-37193

105-77297

65-61827

105-84904

105-84034

CrEM

-

SCONE

Control-Reference Files

Page ll - Revised

August 10, 1967

-N 65360-Doeld+32989645-Page-42-- v

---

## Page 43

GERMANY (Continued)

German Consulate - Boston

German Consulate - Chicago

German Consulate - Detroit

German Consulate - New Orleans

German Consulate - New York City

German Consulate - San Francisco

German Embassy - Washington, D. C.

German Intelligence Activities in

the U. S.:

German Scientists

Kommunistische Partei Deutschlands (KPD)

Ministerium fuer Staatssicherheit (MES)

(Ministry for State Security,

East Germany)

Movement of East German Nationals

Socialist Unity Party (SED) (Sozialistische

Einheitspartel Deutschlands) (East German

Communist Party)

Movement of German Nationals

GHANA

Ghana Activities in the United States

GREAT BRITAIN

Relations with MI-6

Relations

with MI-5 and MI-6

Ellish ambassy, Washington, DE

GREECE

Gardenia

Internattonat es du te aireat

States

International Brigade for Greece

GUATEMALA

Guatemalan Revolutionary Activities

GUINEA

Guinea Activities in the United States

GUYANA

Peoples Progressive Party

Progressive Youth Organization

HAITI

Haitian Revolutionary Activities

65-26130

65-23926

65-26110

65-14760

65-26112

65-26109

105-24201

65-9180

105-8090

64-200-232

65-61827

105-88769

100-351136

105-125970

105-78601

_62-64178

65-5081

62-41850

105-42448)

61-9587

100-35233

64-43798

105-78602

64-200-214

105-143320

LOAL

105-95677

Control-Reference Files

Page 12

Revised October 14, 1966

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 43

---

## Page 44

SECRET

HONG KONG

Investigations at Hong Kong

• HUNGARY

Americans Residing in Hungary

Dart

Hungarian Activities in the U.s.

(Sub for each

field office)

Hungarian Diplomatic Activities in the United States

Hungarian Embassy - Ottawa, Canada

Hungarian Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Hungarian

Emergency Refugee Program

(Control)

Hungarian Emergency Refugee Program (Name Checks)

Hungarian

Funds

Hungarian

Intelligence Activities in the United States

Hungarian Intelligence Abroad

• .

Hungarian

Intelligence

Service

Hungarian Secret Police

• Movement of Hungarian Nationals

Repatriation of Emigres to Hungary

Visitors to Hungary

INDIA

Consulate General of India

62-99680 and

65-53286-124

105-65673

65-61394)

100-89

105-23044

105-69553

65-39010

105-54509

105-54508

65-32424

100-351194

65-55041

65-57965

105-9847

100-354030

105-38887

105-93959

105-54374

-

Control-Reference Files

Page 13

Revised July 19, 1968

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 44

---

## Page 45

SECRE

IRAN

Consulate General of Iran, New York City

Embassy of Iran

Iranian Diplonatic Activities in the U. S.

IRAQ

Consulate of Irag, New York City

Embassy oi Iraq

Iraq Diplomatic Activities in the U. S.

IRELAND

Coverage of Irish Activities

ITish Republican Army

ISRAEL

Intelligence Coverage of Israell Activities - NYC *3

IsraelI Consulate - Chicago

Israeli Consulate - Los Angeles

Israeli Consulate - New York City

Israeli Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Israeli Intelligence Funds

Israeli Intelligence Service # 3

ITALY

Italian Embassy

Italian Fascist Activities in the U. S.

JAPAN

Sokagakkhal

JORDAN

Embassy of Jordan

Jordanian Consulate, New York City

KOREA

Embassy of Korea

Korean Activities in the U. S. (Subs for each field office)

North Korean Espionage Activities

North Korean Intelligence Activities

LATIN AMERICA

Caribbean Political Activities

Central America - Assessment of Internal Security

Cuban Subversion Toward Latin America

Continental Latin-Anerican Students Organization

Latin-American Confederation of Christian Trade

Unions (CLASC)

62-93147

62-73579

100-381876

62-96543

65-55156

105-32502

105-75895

61-7606

105-72272)

105-18322

105-13545

65-58190

105-10828

105-73606

65-58700

65-30892

105-18021

64-41058

65-61885

105-55014

65-61877

100-25

65-65631

105-143909

109-581

64-48874

109-653

105-88932

109-666

Nt Mast

Control-Reference Files

Page 14

Revised April 25, 1969

NW 65360-Đocld:32989645-Page-45

---

## Page 46

LATIN AUERICA (Continued)

Latin-American Organization of Solidarity. (LASO)

Organization oi Auerican States

Pan American Union

rotential Political Ramiiications in Latin America as

& ReguLt o1 Cuban Revolution

LATVIA

Movement of Latvian Nationals

Repatriation oi Emigres to Latvia

LITIIUANIA

Repatriation of Emigres to Lithuania

HACEDONIA

Wacedonian Activities in the United States

Macedonian Peoples League

Macedonian Political Crganization

MEXICO

American Connunist Group in Mexico

Border Coverage

Circle of Mexican

Studies

Mexican Revoiutionary Activities

Party of Mexican laborers and Farm Horkers

Popular Socialist Party (PPS) of Mexico

People's Revolutionary Army of Mexico

MIDDLE EAST

Arab Intelligence Activities in the United States

Middle East Situation

Translation Matter - Arabic

HONGOLIA

HongoTian People's Repuölic (General)

National Intelligence Survey - Mongolia

Political Matters - Mongolia

United Nations Personnel - Mongolia

Visa Applicants - Mongolia

Visitors to Mongolia

NICARAGUA

embassy of Nicaragua

Nicaraguan Revolutionary Activities

paraguayan Brile Activities in the United States

Con Si

9201158

-SECRET

105-149973

64-32630

62-20344

109-576

100-354598

105-39949

105-41116

65-2809

100-180007

100-186806

100-422116

100-356015

105-40545

105-75820

100-370053

100-359378

105-13238]

105-53464

105-53922

62-1077-247

105-104751

64-35693-271

109-12-271

62-77788-271

105-7-271

105-133325

100-143895

109-645

105-107249

Control-Reference Files

Page 15 - Revised

August 10, 1957

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 46

---

## Page 47

POLAND

Americans Residing in Poland

Movement of Polish Nationals

Office of Economic Minister, Polish Embassy,

Washington, D. C.

Polish Activities in Brazil

Folish Activities

in the U. S.

(Miscellaneous)

"olish Commercial Counselor,

New York

Polish Commercial Office, Chicago, Illinois

Polish Consulate: Chicaro

Polish Diplomatic Activities (General)

Polish Diplomatic Couriers

Polish Embassy, Canada

Polish Embassy, Mexico

Polish Embassy, Washington, D. C.

Polish Funds

Polish Intelligence Activities Abroad

Polish Intelligence Activities in the

U.s.

Polish Military Intelligence (Z-II)

Polish

Security Service (UB)

Polish Trade Mission, New York

Relationship Between U. S. and Poland

Repatriation of Emigres to Poland

Visitors to Poland

Who's Who in Poland

PORTUGAL

Anti-Salazar Activities

ROMANIA

American Embassy: Bucharest, Romania

Americans Residing in Romania

Foreign Funds Outside the United States

Free Romanian Movement

Funds Transmitted to Residents of Romania

Jakober Ransom Channel * |

Monograph (Romania)

Movement of Romanian Nationals

Relationship Between United States and Romania

Repatriation of Emigres to Romania

Romanian Activities in the U. S.

Romanian-American Activities in the U.s.

Romanian Diplomatic Activities

Romanian Embassy - Paris, France

Romanian Embassy - Tokyo, Japan

Romanian Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Romanian Funds

Romanian Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

-SECREF

105-65675

100-354028

105-62792

105-104003

65-40955

105-79464

105-90343

65-55273

105-12340

105-68808

65-57264

62-77545

62-56597

65-32839

65-38135

100-350264

65-58426

100-344405

105-98402

65-56253

105-39233

105-64753

105-9869

105-95512

62-81259

105-44733

112-8

102-119

100-363308

105-108786)

62-80750-1070

100-354031

65-38867

105-38985

100-46

105-15520

105-25263

105-105768

105-118698

65-38144

100-359722

105-23993

Control-Reference Files

Page 15a

Revised July 19, 1968

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 47

---

## Page 48

SECRET

ROMANIA (Continued)

Romanian Intelligence Service

Romanian Iron Guard

Romanian Legation

Romanian Liberation Movement

Romanian Military Intelligence

Romanian Orthodox Church

Romanul American

United States Citizens Repatriated from Romania

Visitors to Romania

RUSSIA

•Aliens in United States Who Hold Valid Soviet

Passports (Nondiplomatic)

American Embassy, Moscow

Americans Residing in the USSR

Amtorg

Bank for Foreign Trade of the USSR

Censorship - Russian

Funds Transmitted to Residents of Russia.

Importation and Sale of Soviet Publications

Monitoring of Soviet-Controlled Establishments in

the United States

Movement of Soviet Nationals (Mosnat)

Office of Soviet Military Attache

Office of Soviet Naval Attache

Oftice or soviet Air Attache.

Pravda

Radio and Technical Equipment Purchased by the Soviets

Red Navy; Soviet Naval Intelligence

Relationship Between the

United States and Russia

Repatriation and Redefection to USSR

100-350268

105-12450

65-57411

105-10412

105-102535

105-15386

100-264688

105-44733

105-94412

62-102232

62-75450

105-37111

61-5381

100-346963

100-344043

100-353496

100-365088•

105-25490

100-308748

100-357510

105-12488

100-319657

100-23694

105-36365

100-346132

65-37939

105-61716

Control-Reference Files

' Page 16

Revised October 14, 1966

NW 65360 Docid:32989645 Page 48

---

## Page 49

(CRET

RUSSIA (Continued)

ROVS (White Russian Intelligence Organization)

Russian Funds

Russian Immigrants to the U. S.

JFK Act 5 (9) 12) (D)

soviet attenpts to convert Looted German Bonds (SOVLOOT)

Soviet Attempts to Defect American Personnel

Soviet Bloc Capital Invested in the U. S.

Soviet Comercial Activities

SoviEt Detector Operations

Soviet Derelictions

• Soviet Diplomatic Activities (SODAC)

Soviet Diplomatic Couriers

Soviet Earth Satellites

Soviet Embassy Lookouts

Soviet

Foreign Policy

SOViet

Identity Documents

Soviet

Intelligence Activities in Latin America

soviet

Intelligence Album

Soviet

Intelligence

Couriers • Airlines - Seamen

Soviet

Soviet

Intelligence

Service

(General)

Intelligence

Serwice

(Red Army)

Soviet

intelligence

Service

(KGB)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Smersch)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Recruitment)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Sabotage)

SOVIET

Intelligence dervice

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Security Precautions)

Soviet

Intelligence

Service

(Cover Stories)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Travel and Entry)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Method of Communication)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

Soviet

Intelligence

Service

(Method of Payment)

Soviet

Intelligence

Service

(Information Sought›

(Modus Operandi)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Information Obtained)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Diplomatic Assistance)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Communist Party)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Technical Services)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Unsolved Situations)

Soviet Looting of German Bonds

Soviet Officials Abroad (CIA Check List)

Soviet Personnel Intelligence Activity (SPIA)

Soviet Officials Album

Soviet Propaganda Activities

Soviet Travel Control

Soviet War Plans

100-355888

65-28939

62-102232

105-19581

105-23578

6562958

105-49099

650638297

65-62958

100-365323

65-30092

61-771

62-104279

105-30046

100-342046

100-348008

100-332412

100-342424

65-63360

65-57834

65-56847

61-3499

100-351413

65-57774

65-67761

S5 57099

65-57773

65-57969

65-57971

65-57768

65- 57 970

65-57967

65-57772

65-59508

65-57960

65-57972

65-69346

65-57771

105-23578

105-24309

100-354839

100-353113

61-6341

65-61940

100-343044

BE ART

Control-Reference Files

Page 17 Revised

April 19, 1965

NMV 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 49

---

## Page 50

-SECRET

RUSSIA (Continued)

Surmer Resort Facilities of Soviet Personnel

Suzaary or soviet Bspionage Activities in U. s.

Tass News Agency

U. S. Defectees to USSR

USSR Nationals Employed at UN Secretariat

Who's Who in Soviet Union

SAUDI ARABIA

Embassy O1 Saudi Arabia

SPAIN

Repatriation of Spanish Prisoners of War from Russia

Spanish Revolutionary Activities

SUDAN

Sudanese Activities in the U..S.

SYRIA

Embassy of Syria

Syrian Intelligence Service

TUNISIA

Embassy of Tunisia

TURKEY

Embassy

of Turkey

Turkish

Intol115-=0s Serries

Turkish Diplomatic Activities in the U. S.

Turkish Consulate, New York City

UKRAINE

Movement of Ukrainian Nationals

Organization for Rebirth of the Ukraine

UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

Embassy of the United Arab Republic, Washington, D. C.

United Arab Republic Consulate, New York City

United Arab Republic Diplomatic

Activities in the U. S.

VENEZUELA

Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN)

Communist Infiltration or Influence Among Venezuelan

Exiles in the U. S.

Movement of the Revolutionary Left (MIR)

National Liberation Front

Venezuelan Revolutionary Activities in the U.S.

105-14175

100-345686

100-183330

105-82754

105-22865

100-304397

65-56926

65-62599

109-587

105-72093

65-59148

65-58397

65-64170

65-59169

65-57280

105-74769

105-73522

105-58701

102-8

105-68165

105-68352

105-52622

105-135158

105-107996

105-143104

105-157725

105-101555

Control-Reference Files

Page 18 - Revised

- August 10, 1967

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 50

---

## Page 51

:

YEMEN

Legation of Yenen

YUGOSLAVIA

Demonstrations Against Yugoslav Establishments

Diplomatic CommunicatIonS YugOslaVIa

Foreign Political Matters - Yugoslavia

Key Personalities - Yugoslavia

Miscellaneous Yugoslav Activities in the U.S.

Hovement of Yugoslav Nationals

Office of Yugoslav Commercial Attache

Office of Yugoslav Military Attache

Savez Komunista Jugoslavijo (League of Communists of

Yugoslavia)

U. S. - Yugoslav Relations

rugoslav Activities in the U. S.

rugoslav consulate - New York

Yugoslav Consulate - Chicago

Yugoslav Consulate - Pittsburgh

Yugoslav Consulate - San Francisco

Yugoslav Diplomatic Activities

Yugoslav Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Yugosiav Information Center

Yugoslav Intelligence Activities in the U.S.

Yugoslav Intelligence Service

Yugoslav - USSR Relations

Yupia

Repatriation of Emigres to Yugoslavia

105-58065

105-119149

55-57668

109-12-272

64-35693-274

105-14307

100-354170

100-359904

105-11051

105-37421

109-237

100-32820

65-57367

65-58528

105-13764

65-58965

100-345359

65-40979

97-2977

100-346258

105-8611

65-57240

705-37477

105-39242

Control-Reference

Files

Page 19 - Revised

August 10, 1967

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 51

---

## Page 52

SECRET

INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION FILES

Acquisition of Unclassified Intelligence Data by Soviet

Bloc Representatives in the U. S.

[acquisition of Latent Fingerprints of sovtet Bloc *2

officials in the US (litt)

American Citizens Residing Abroad

American Seamen Suspected of Contacting Soviet Agents

Americans Traveling in Iron Curtain

Countries

Arab Intelligence Activitles in the u.s.

Baghdad Pact (Central

Treaty Organization)

Biological

Warfare

Briefs on Soviet Bloc Espionage

Burn Memoranda (Intelligence Fabricators)

Caribbean Political Activities

Caribbean Revolutionary Activities

Central Intelligence Agency Matters* 4

Central Intelligence Bulletin

SX4

Clandestine Radio Communications

Classification of Information

Commission on Government Security

Communications Security

Contacts with Soviet, Satellite or Yugoslav Officials

and/or Establishments by Americans While Abroad

Current Espionage Digest

Current. Forpion Relations

Defections of Foreign Officials in the u.

Development of Selected Contacts (DESECO) ** 3

Development of Sources in Foreign Nationality Groups

Double Agents

Double Agents - Biological Warfare

Double Agents - Income Tax

Double Meaning File Xx 2

East-West Exchanges

Entrance into the U. S. of Individuals who are a Threat

to Internal Security of the U. S.

Foreign Influence in Black Nationalist Movement

Foreign Language Training

Flying Saucers

Full Utilization of Confidential Informants and Sources

of Information

Guided Missile Research

Immigrants and Repatriates from Soviet Bloc Countries

Immigration and Nationality Act

Immunity Bill

Importation and Sale of Soviet and Satellite Publications

105-27754

65-6581

64-31479

65-57868

100-351585

105-53464

105-42549

100-93216

65-65438

105-19395

109-581

109-581

62-80750>

65-63735

65-58776

66-7225

62-101916

105-128045

105-81776

65-64939

109-631

100-357681

105-71688>

105-90171

65-49443

65-58698

134-7326

80-742)

105-42300

105-9746

157-8141

66-18979

62-83894

66-18772

62-87975

105-78187

100-390629

62-51542

100-365088

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

RaVIsed April 25, 1969

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 52

---

## Page 53

SECRET

INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION FILES (Continued)

Infiltration of the United Nations by Subversive American

• Citizens

Infiltration of the United Nations and other Public

International Organizations by Subversive Resident Aliens

INS

Waiver Control File

Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of

Friendly Foreign Nations

Intelligence

Techniqlies

International Organizations, Dangerous Aliens of Nations

Outside the Soviet Bloc

Investigative Jurisdiction - Bureau

Legislation - Security

Loopholes in the Coverage of Internal Security

Mail Drops

Movement of Miscellaneous Nationais

Movement of Satellite Nationals

National Security Council

National Intelligence Estimates

NATO Special Committee

Prevention of Departure of Aliens with Scientific or

Technical Training

Project Permanent Xx 4

Psychological Warfare

Public Appearance of Soviet Officials

Refugee Relief Program

Rechnathilitiao af tha DOT in the Internal Docurity ficia

Satellite Cultivation of Foreign Officials of Non-Soviet

bloc Countries

Satellite Intelligence Album

SATPIA (Satellite Personnel Intelligence Activities)

Searches of Diplomatic Shioments $2

SEATO

Security Informants (Subs for each field office)

Security Schools

Soviet and Satellite Passports

Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Soviet Cultivation of Foreign Ofticials of Non-Soviet-

Bloc Countries

Soviet Illegal Espionage Activities

Soviet Intelligence Services (Disinformation and

Deception)

Soviet-Satellite Efforts to Penetrate the U. S.

Intelligence Community

Soviet Use of Records of Birth

Special Installations in U. S. Embassies Abroad $2

Speech Privacy

Equipment

"Sputniks"

105-13893

105-26004

100-390629

65-63113

105-102952

105-14879

66-3012

66-18949

100-359391

65-46006

64-5003

100-351139

62-85205

62-93351

62-98719

105-19164

62-96321

65-48066

105-166516

62-100044

c2-00076

105-128907

65-63778

65-63483

105-18233

62-102032

66-2542-3

1-43

65-43015

65-63478

105-128906

65-63234

65-68951

105-132051

105-69253

105-19581

62-101410

62-104279

PONS

• Control-Reference Files

Page 20a - Revised

August 10, 1967

NW 65360 Docld:32989645. Page 54,

---

## Page 54

INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION FILES (Continued)

Studies in Intelligence

Submarine activities

Supervision - Internal Security (Nationalistic Tendency

Matters)

Supervision - Espionage

Supervision - Neutrality Matters

supervision • Registration Act

Third Country Operations

Tracing American Money Used in Espionage Operations

United Nations Liaison Matters

United States Evaluation Board s

Visitors to Iron Curtain Countries

65-66944

65-39557

105-00

65-00 .

2-00

97-00

65-66691

65-65405

105-14228

62-96781

100-351585

ATOMIC ENERGY MATTERS

Activities in the Atomic Energy Field in Foreign Countries

Atomic Energy Act - General

Atomic Energy Act (Violations, Supervision, etc.)

Atomic Energy Commission

Atomic Energy

Facilities

Cinrad

Control of Atomic Energy

Countermeasures Renuired to Motort and Mofand. Nosinat tha

Clandestine Introduction of Atomic Weapons into U.S.

Foreign Scientists Training Program for Peaceful Use of

Atomic Energy

- Joint Committee on Atomic Energy

Radiation Fall-Out

Security Risk Program

Tripartite Conference on Security of Atomic Energy Infor-

mation Between Canada, U. S. and Great Britain

United Nations Committee

on Control of Atomic Energy

110-141

66-00-116

66-00-117

62-82221

117-833

100-190625

100-345079

• 117-268

117-1852

62-83626

62-104057

117-1654

105-15419

100-345471

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 21 - Revised

August 10, 1967

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 54

---

## Page 55

COMMUNIST EILES

Restricied to Listing of those possibly related to work of

Section)

Afro-Asian Peoples Solidarity Council

105-72281

Alleged Communist Infiltration of the FBI

American Association of Scientific Workers

100-97391

100-203763

Arab Communists in the United States

105-84464

Cominform

100-353813

Comras

100-203581

Connunist Infiltration of Foreign Language Groups

100-47852:

Communist International (All Union Party of Soviet Union)

61-16

Communist Party Seamen Couriers

• 100-358614

International Communist Organizations

105-87393

Interzational issociation of Democratic Lawyers

100-348689

International Federation of Resistance Fighters

100-397080

international Union of Students

100-346144

Women's International Democratic Federation

100-343636

World Federation of Democratic Youth

100-185087

World Federation of Scientific Workers

100-350410

World Federation of Trade-Unions

100-260007

World

Peace Council

100-361031

Control - Réference Files

Revised Page 22

April 26, 1962

NW 65360 Docld:32989645 Page 55_

---

