JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: .124-90086-10234
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 87-76294-36
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: DN
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 01/20/1965
PAGES: 30
SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH STEIN
FRANK A. BLOSSER
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT 5
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 07/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

992 (44 USC 2107 Note

Caset: NW

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 1



- i
ecian ( - ) ¢ assist

FD-263 (Rev. 51-59) . ’

=

Nw

a ‘TITLE OF CASE (REPORT MADE BY

a (‘4 ql 8A CARLTON H, WOLFARTH njt
FRANK A. BLOSSER, CHARAGER OF CAS

ITSP; AR

pe
ae) ENCES: Chicago letter to Bureau dated 11/9/64. °
pe Chicago airtel to Indianapolis dated 12/17/64. (1
bE ae Report of SA JESSE L. ORR dated 1/4/65 at Denver.
“ty s: 7
EO yo ~ P+.
i 2
jr LEADS _
re ee ‘INDIANAPOLIS AND MILWAUKEE - INFORMATION
ee LEEEUEEE ~_INFORMATION
“fz Copies of this report have been designated for
7 Indianapolis and Milwaukee inasmuch as there may be a request
for ssible additional investigation in these offices.
te pt.
2 ~° DENVER ce
pa nen AT AURORA, COLORADO. Will ascertain telephone number WX
ee and telephone cre card number of FRANK A, BLOSSER and ascer- _ 5
de tain toll calls made by BLOSSER for period February, 1964, to
Ps May, 1964 ifoipatite
A

(copies on if page) 2

/- Je Bereac (57~76394)
*g AMAR 12 1965

ne Dissemination Record af Arroched Reopen

te How Fwd,
NW 68262 Docid:32329577 Page 2


q

FD.302 (Rov, 1-88-40) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION £ 9

Oqenay) 0 ead We eonsenis are eet te be Cinulbaled Guleite Feu aqeeay. -

1

On November 24, 1964, IK het 5 (BN 2N0)
3452 Chapel Drive, Tolede, Ohi A :

Office of the FBI and furnishe
which he requested be rowers
basis, It is te ied noted he-f¢

information b
noted that ng this account appeared
to ramble on pinlessly; however, h 8 attempting’to
furnish information as to the facts as they happ

It will be further noted that/ |’ born
July 11, 1923, is married and the father of four children, é
He has an extensive educational background, having
attended and graduated from Emerson High School, Gary,
Indiana; Bliss Electrical Engineering College, Takoma
Park, Maryland; and the University of Texas College of
Engineering. He is a registered professional engineer
and was formerly an Ensign in the United States Naval
Reserve frew which he was honorably discharged:

“I went to work for Kaighin and Hughes in
August, 19612, as Vice President and Director of the
Company. In 1962, I became the Assistant to the
President, LLOYD WuGcH “There were two owners,
LLOYD HUGHES and N. This was a Toledo, Ohio firm.

In July, 1962, I received a call from a man
by the name of HARRY W, BANK of Beverly Hills, California,
who stated ho was @ financier and could finance the
design and building of composting plants, and would we
come out and seo him for these projects, There would .
be 12 of them. I went out and while talking to him,
I had learned just a woek or so prior, there had been an
argument between KEN KAIGHIN and LLOYD HUGHES in which
LLOYD HUGHES stated he would buy out KENT KAIGHIN. He x
gaid if LLOYD HUGHES then bought out KENT KAIGHIN he would ¥
own the stock. I said that is correct, He said could
wo then buy the company and I stated, ‘Yes you could,
You would own 100 per c ‘of the stock.” So he identified
IVAR of 111 John Street, New York, 4)

11/24/64 ,, Chicago, 1linois File #__137-3316

__ Heeb PRT da HE og 12/24/84 :

Octe dictet
tecqmont eenisine ceo ther tecemmendailons Ger Cone helene of the FSi. seerersyg Sy sae io tn

fe ome



ee

a 137-5316

an attorney, both of whom stated that they were the people
who had just bought and leased back Harrah’s Club in Reno
and had made a commission, We ran # Dun and Bradstreet
on both of the gentlemen and at that time it looked very
good, Mr. PIVAR showed a $1,250,000 net worth. Mr. BANK's
net worth is unknown but had been known to put together some '
pretty good deals. On November 2, 1962, the purchase of ’
Kaighin and Hughes was consumated, wherei as trustee
for the purchasers, who were then HARRY BANK: SAMUEL PIVAR;
~ ~_ > @ corporation that they had calle: rorporate Resources, LTD.,
anOther friend of mine that I convinced to buy in was
this J.W. SHARP for 24 per cent. J.W. SHARP has been a very
close friend and associate of mine since 1956 and I have
done engineering and design work for him on cement plants. Con ade

He is the President of a steel company, a man worth about
$100,000,000. He is,msséciated with GEOR! al
of Vancouver and soaybivinson of Los Angeles and gary, whos

combined net worth n excess of $1,000,000,000 so they Ge y a
are very legitimate businessmen. FRANK MC MANN sits on th
Board of Directors of the Royal Bank of Canada. 80 on-
my say, they bought 25 per cent of the stock and I was trustee
of the balance. We then invited the list of men t you Ohio
“have there to be on our Board of Directors. HUGHES was wz.
Chairman, an honorary position, with myse, fas a

(ie bad DALE ROBEBTEON , and SAMUEL PIVAR UU
Ow RDVWOLSON, an_attorney from Toledo
Vice Président of Carnation Milk,

f
President of Space Needle at Seattle World's Fair and on

the Board of many banks atual funds and a shopping center
expert; and Major GeneralFARRAND. Major General FARRAND is retired
~from_ the Arry, er neral of the Third Army —_—_—
Vision, end is President _o u ary Academy. USA
——

During this period of time st the company, HARRY W.
BANK introduced to me in April, 1963, in his Los Angeles ice, ,
two gentlemen, one by the naze of JAMES\AACESON § - er Cri (
c. EATON and they said that the fers and had a <C/c
shopping center in Tulsa, Okishoma end we could have the job if © (—
we gave them $50,000. I refweea their deal and turned thes dows.

t/ | feeey M.
an Va 2 L.

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 4 OS of



CG 139-5316
3

Then Mr. PIVAR demonstrated that we could buy a company
in Los Angeles that would return about $1,000,000 to us,
which purchase we went ahead with. HARRY W. BANK was
to be the financier, which he did not do. WNorthis led
to a fight between the purchasers and the sellers. Then
in June, 1963, I received a telephone call from C,¥. DEATON
of Dallas, who said that JAMES JACKSON said that they
had purchased the ownership of the French Pavilion and the
i World of Food Pavilion at the New York World's Fair

oe ‘and would we be the contractor for them and that they would
finance the job. Funds in Escrow from various exhibitors were
turned over to them in trust because in some manner they got
to be the officers o @ corporation.--Their attorney at AN,
that time was GEORG: ONAHAN, former Commissioner of Police

of Now Tork Citr three of-them Undoubtedly were OUt
eece the exhibitors. We didn't know this at the time

but the money in trust was turned over to them and we were
called in again to examine the prints and agreed we would
do the job at cost plus 10.

"While there was a fight between the purchasers and
~~ the sellers, Mr. HUGHES met vith Mr. DEATON in New York City
and they discussed Mr. DEATON buying Kaighin and Hughes
and Mr. HUGHES was satisfied. I left the decision entirely
up to him because you could see as trustee and President
of the company, I was getting in the middle of about three
or four groups. Mr. HUGHES stated that he would sell to anyone
who had the money. Mr. DEATON gave three checks, one in the
amount of $109,000 and two totalling $250,000. $100,000
was the deposit on the purchase and $250,000 was the down payment
on the purchase of Kaighin and Hughes. While I was out of toun,
I got a telephone call from the office and learned that the checks
had bounced. We got hold of DEATON and JACKSON and we ran
a check on them immediately. DEATON, we could find nothing
about st all, except that he was carrying with him a letter on
a Bank at Nassau stating that he had a line of credit of
- $1,000,000 and was an officer of this bank. On JAMES JACKSON,
we learned that he bad served a term for fraud in the State
of Florida or Georgia. I'm pretty sure it was Florida. 80, we

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 5



a ao

Gal

CG 137-5316
4

immediately broke off relationships with these projects but
the; had us in pretty bad shape on the World of Food Pavilion
because we had let some subcontracts go, and we learned that
they money in escrow had disappesred. The FBI was called into
it at time. I know that for a fact some of it went to
JOHN\MONAHAN, the former Commissioner of New York City Vv. ,
Pol Department, because hé -W#S-the-TTUst Orricer tor ew
t 7 to take part in it. Thep this brought

~- the warfare between the group that I represented and LLOYD
HUGHES out in the open because they said, “You are interferring
with the operations of the company and behind onf‘backs tried to
sell to people we didn't want.’ DEATON.and JACKSON professed
complete innocence and stated that JACKSON had received a pardon
and had established a new life so to speak. 80, on September 13,
1963, things became unbearable. I went into consulting practice
and did reasonably well I continued testifying, figting and
representing the purchasers, and it w: ken before the Federal
Court. Mr. HUGHES had confession notes so he immediately had
judgments and we coutered with a counter suit for $5,000,000 and
a hearing was held end it was stated that we had grounds for
~our case so the judgments were set_aside and the fight was on.
YouUBANK and POWERS couldn't have and didn't come up with their
share of the expenses. Mr. SHARP, who had very Ittle to do
with Kaighin and Hughes, came up with $25,000 cash bond to the
court to support the fact that we were people of substance, paid
the legal fees and he put Gut about $50,000 cash and said that
he wanted to get rid of BANK and PIVAR snd anyone else in the mess
and lets get.out of this. He acused me of very poor judgment
and he was right. He threw me a couple of bones to work on as
an engineer, one of which was ® cement plant, and I was able to
make the ends meet, tt it was close,

In about April, 1964, I received s call from JAMES JACKSON
from Tulsa, Oklahoma. I learned since then it wes actualiy
Betheny, Oklahoma, which is a suburb of Tulsa. He asked me
what I was doing and I toldhim I was a consulting engineer and
taking on clients. He professed complete disassociation with
DEATON and said he wasshow the Chief Mortgage Officer for
Columbia National Life Insurance in Tulsa and that he lived

Coat Pig

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 6


>
,
J

CG 137-5316
5

in Oklahoma City and the main offices were in Tulsa. He asked
me if, in my design and engineering, I came across projects
that needed financing. I said obviously every project needs
financing in some form. He ssid, "Would you pass them in front
of us?" I said, "Well, I would need to know more about your
company and h«w big it is". He seseune was going to ec

data but he didn't. fag’ 7 2 /) “fh
In Mty, 1964, about the

iret of Way, [received a
aris C0} ence cali. I bed JAMES JACKSON, Oklahoma ty; 5

» nD eiiczpey in_Chicago,| 75 Best Wacker Drive;
and a gentiemsn by the name oO: LEY; on D
Mr. JACKSON said"Mr, POWERS represents .aclient who is willing
to hire you for your services concerning a steel will."
Mr. POWERS i:d. the ceiking end asked me if I would take on the
client and I said I would be happy to. They discussed my
qualifications and I was eccepted and paid $2,000 a month.
The contract was signed on May 7, 1964. In a few days after
that they brought in a gentlemen by the name of HARRY ESPENSCHIED,
President of North West Construction Compery of Rockford,
Illinois, and they stated that they wanted me to work for him as

_ ..@ consulting engineer and he would pay me $1,000 a month
and I would heZp bim obtain constrction contracts. This then
gave me $3,000 a month income, so I had the world by the tail. a
Tre first project that came up was the Gary Park Tower, Inc., .
and I learned that the finencing waa committed to JAMES JACKSON.
Thef Mr. BILLINGSLEY becawe interested in some of the projects
that I had, and I wrote a memorandum to him describing the
jobs I had worked on and that I would be going on during the year
and they aucunted pretty close t> $100,000,000 worth.
This made a lot of people very interested. Mr. POWERS said that
4f I would work witp him he would handie the litigations in
Toledo for $28,000. I didn't have this money, nor did the
purchasers, which were BANK 4nd PIVAR. SHARP washed his hands
of the whole matter. They said if i would work with their people,
they would pry the legal expenses on the fight, continue with my
fee, and I would receive a bonus on each job.

_H =

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page7



v
\

cc 137-6316
6

In the latter part of June or first part of ‘
July, 1964, Mr. POWERS saw that several of these projects were
$ery much real. We had obtained letters of intent from all
of the people giving us equity and construction, providing
we could finance. He took me down for coffee and said he would
like to give me the background. The background was in two
phases; 1. "Do you know who I am?" I said, "No, I do not."
He said, I am the attorney or one of the attorneys for the
~ syndicate and they have control of banks and insurance companies.
: The banks and insurance companies are very rea] and very E
clean and there is nothing irregular abou ém at all, I
would like you to meet my partner." ccnp) FIDANzI appeared and
he was introduced as POWERS' partner. He ld me that whatever
he got Mr. FIDANZI would get half of it, and they could assist
me in this program. I said, "Well, lets make it understood 1
now, the person I don't want to do any business with is Mr. MY.
JACKSON. I'#e had a very bad experience. I don't know Mr. ce
FIDANZI or you, Mr. POWERS, but I would want to check you out," ————
They said, “Anytime anything doesn't look right, you can leave
and you can move into my office at 75 Bast Wacker." They
put my name on the door of POWERS' office and I moved in.

The second phase was that he had to describe to me
the reason for certsin people being in the picture. The story ~
was 50 complex that I truthfully cannot repeat it to you so
I will tell it to you as I believe it to be.

DEATON and JACKSON appeared on the scene with some | ~
securities or proported that they could obtain some securities,
from which they could borrow a very sizeable sum of money
which would increase the net worth of North West Construction
Company considerably. To do this they would need $60,000,

Mr. BILLIKGSLEY called Mr. ESPENSCHEID ‘and gave him this story
an@ as unbelieveable as it is, Mr. ESPENCHEID did not bring

a check hut he came with $60,000 in cash and they sat him in

a motel room. Present at the meeting was HARVEY POWERS,
BILLINGSLEY, DEATON, JACKSON, and a gentleman appeared on the
scene by the name of FRANK BLOSSER, the President of a bank

in Denver. I never did meet him. The meeting had something

Bein cite
CovER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 8



CG 137-5316
ht

to do with the securities being carried by DEATON and something
to do with the Denver Bank. Two securities appeared and,
without the advice of Mr. POWERS, the $60,000 was handed to

Mr. DEATON. Also at this same time, $70,000 was paid by

Mr. ESPENCHEID to Mr. BILLINGSLEY for stock in a mining
company that would pay in gold or reclaim gold. They spoke of
having another processing system that would make steel very |
quickly and they showed me the data. I told them it was not

a steel producing formula at all, it was merely a mix that you
put in a blast furnace that. would speed it up. Mr. ESPENCHEID
claimed that he had been bilked of a $130,000. C.W. DEATON
disappeared in five minutes and was drivén to the afrport

by BILLINGSLEY and left with the money. POWERS, being there,
offered his services to Mr. ESPENCHEID to collect the money
for 25 per cent of what he collected and he brought in GUIDO
FIDANZI as the man able to collect it. They kept putting

off Mr. ESPENCHEID stating that he would build the Gary Project
and the Shreveport, Louisiana Project. I felt sincerely that
he would be given the opportunity to build them. Theyclaimed
that because of the moneys involved that originated from the
Syndicate in Chicago, they had to keep JACKSON in the: pot,

but the money always came from ESPENCHEID, who is very clean
businessman. S80 they must have had a third dealing which I
didn't know about and that JACKSON is and has been notified
over the phone concerning. The deal was that he was to pay the
$60,000 back to POWERS. pare i -

In August, they said they would introduce me to a man ft
who had access to 16 actuaries or insurance companies and Nn
another man who had access to banks. The man who had the 16
actuaries was GUS RUBINO whom I didn't know. He ap; ad Cc lo
on the scene with a man who was his chauffeur, BILLXXDAUBER. o
That evening they asked me to have dinner with them 4nd they brereeeent
introduced me to their banker, CHARLES YORK, whose brother they ~
claimed was the President of an insurance company in Indianapolis,
and said that Mr. YORK was the President of a bank at i
Mascoutah, Illinois. At dinner when they got to feéling pretty

ses 2 set
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 9


0)
)

CG 137-5316
8 ’

good, they were telling me that. YORK had made a

mistake at the Bank of Mascoutah and was close to a Federal

Indictment. They said he hadsbout four houns to get out

and he had gotten out by getting somebody to buy the stock

of the bank. In August I went to POWERS and asked him who

these people were. I said I didn't like the looks of it

and should we continue. He said, "With these associations

with these people, you can get out any time you want but
' this is strictly legitimate because I wll be handling the
money and it comes from yur, biggest insurance companies. 7 tI.
Howan you go wrong?" He said, "We will introduce you to.
principals." 80 they loaded me in a car and took me down yt? ri
to 645 North Michigan Avenue to the office of the First 2/'°~! “/
~ ~ National Mor¥gage Company and introduced me to JOS In. u iS A,

RLES

Present at the meeting were FIDANZI; DAUBER; INOS EIN;

another gentleman zrom STEIN's office, LEONARD) LLMAN;

YORK; and myself. They were talking a ILLINGSLEY
make some checks good. They wanted to know if they could handle

any projects where they could get the 10 per cent fees. They

said they have a very good plan and asked me to leave the room.

So I left the room and they were taking for about an hour.

When they came out they drove me to Wheeling, Illinois, to

251 East Dundee Road, where I met a gentleman by the name of

BOB FERRELL. The said that he was a man worth $2,500,000

and was very successful in obtaining financers. They said they
don't touch anything for less than 10 per cent down. I said,

"3" I don't get the money for them or the loan, what, happens :
to the 10 per cent?" They said, "We get the lam.” I said, "Okay". |
So FERRELL was put on the Board and they incorporated, Actually
we were in business for a couple of weeks, hut doing nothing.

We really started about the middle of September, and

we had meetings in FERRELL's office with DAUBER and FIDANZI

and POWERS being present. Somafter there was a falling out
between POWERS and FIDANZI over a large sum of money that was
theoretically handed to POWERS to be transported to a gentleman

Cover PA ae

|
NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 10.


CG 137-5316
9

by the name of F} INZ in Miami, $5,000
of it got there and the balance didn't. They described
to me that they had two people in Miami pick up HEINZ and
take him to a motel room and let him make one phone call to someone
in New York and that someone in New York called Chicago
before they stopped whatever they were going to do to him.
FIDANZI got on the phone in front of me and got POWERS on
the line and said, "You have til midnight to come up with my
half of the money, which is $12,500, or I'll get you".
It may have been true as HARVY POWERS did disappear. I later
heard that he hid out in BILLINGSLEY home in Zion, Illinois.
He approached BILLINGSLEY's home at 2:00 in the morning
with a :45 and said that he was in trouble. BILLINGSLEY,
_ . being a religious fanatic, brought him in and had a prayer meeting
~to work together and have everything come out. They then
considered me as an outsider because I was left at World Wide
and it ended up where everything flopped over to where I was
with FIDANZI, RUBINO, and FERRELL and on the otherside was
POWERS and BILLINGSLEY. Each were calling the other names
and I wanted to find out who I was to take orders from. BOB FERRELL
said, "I have been instructed to tell you that I work for one
family and there ig another family, but we are connected through
me here, and you will be in a new concern that we are going to
build up." I said, "Well that sounds very nice but who are
the principals?" He said, "J will take you to them." 80 we
mde a trip to Denver,, Co we went to the offices of
- the_ National §¢ ives ny and I was introduced mz
to Miss VIO. RF a Went; and her fisnce, —-' :
ig ERT SS BBY. married two weeks ago, © /2%&5
mvt had an office in Dallas, an office in Denver, -
6 ami, and they had just put through a $27,000,000, lo
deal from which a tremendous amount of money had been made. = — 4
There was something peculiar about the funding of this committ- £/
ment whih they did not discuss but said that they “handled a,
it through a very large insurance company in Tulsa where they —_
owned the vice president." This was my first indication of the
~ tie up of Miami, Dallas, Denver and Chicago.
%,

pulses Gupe
COVER PACE

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 11


“

CG 137-5316
10 :

At dinner that evening; BOB FERRELL gets drunk

real quick. and talks, And at that time, when everyone left

the table, he said to BURT,BOOTHBY, "We want to tell BOB what

his opportunities are and & want to confirm to him that you

and I are brothers." BURT seemed to be quite startled by it

and he said, "No, no BURT, BOB has to be one of us and you have
to tell him, we want to identify each other." BURT said, '‘Yess,
BOB, in a manner of speaking, we are brothers." .

I returned to Wheding and they started handling or
processing these packages; each job is called a package, and
we cancelled some of the packages which BILLINGSLEY was in
_ . default of. They called BILLINGSLEY up and said the’ Denver
“package can be handled in Denver and we will get you a —
committment but it will cost you $25,000, So he came up and a
contract was prepared and they asked me to sign it, which I
did. He paid $25,000 cash and in three installments. He
Geimed that in essence he was buying back his own deal but
he was legally and rightfully in default. When I had gone to
, Denver, I went with a gentleman by the name of AMERMAN of ‘
Shopping Center Utilities, Inc.; 369 Lexington Avenue, MU 2-7130,
New York, a legitimate bu es man. . The Denver. Tower people J] Pes
introduced me to a Mr. ROY{HARMON, Jr,, President of Harmon and = ——~
Beckett, a very legitimate businessman, and the owner of this
tallest building in the world and he asked me if I had any
_ association with a fellow by the name of BILLINGSLEY, or.
HOWARD SCHAAD, and JOHN BIRDSELL. I said, "Yes. 1 worked with — oe
them as a consulting engineer." He said, "Well, BIRDSELL: a
and SCHAAD were involved in a $75,000 fraud in Denver and BILLINGSLEY
is a part of them, and we are going to void our cortracts. 5 ~
I said, "I am with another Denver Company and they can finance
it, which is National Security. 80 they cancelled the author~
ization to POWERS and worked with a man in Denver and FIDANZI
went fanatically mad: about it, That is when DAUBER told me
"Has it dawned on you yet that the warfare between POWERS and .
FIDANZI is put on, and that actslly POWERS is with BILLINGSLEY 7
and that is how FIDANZI and POWERS can control BILLINGSLEY.
This way they have milked by threat or promise of contract,
over $250,000 from BILLINGSLEY.

COVE R PAGE i

NW 68262. Docld:32329577 Page 12


9
)

CG 137-' ae tay lee
a 37-5316 fiscep sen ict eu lee
Yajie hae O17
In the formation of World Wide when we opened Lis hia eu,
up the offices in the middle of September, there was a fight » rm a
between DAUBER and POWERS about money due him, so they bro! iid Y
* up. Then RUBINO and FIDANZI got into a fight and FIDANZI wa
out and DAUBER wxt out. It ended up where I was with DONA 88,
QC ‘an attorney who/had been a former judge, GUS RUBINO and
ROBERT. FERRELL.} The Boa of Directo hich inc. ae
DA ROBERTSON EBASTIANACABOT, J. SHARP, MORRI
dison Aventie, Ne ‘ork, ROBERT ‘FERRELL, md, llow
the name of BABIN of Ashland State Bank of Chicago. We had as land
Joan sent to us frem a company called Home and Commercial
Corporation in Newark, New Jersey, and an OWEN MEDDLES, c
me, through the efforts of MORRIS LANDSMAN, for a legiti
~~ loan. They were developing a complete subdivision and they
had plenty of collateral but they had no cash. They could .
provide the guarantees and they wanted to borrow only $325,000.

Bo. we told them put up $32,500 and would get the loan. RUBINO :
q@lled a gentleman by the name of DO) :
who had arranged to send a dummy crddit deposit of $600,000 Moe
to a Utah Bank who would issue the $325,000 loan for six per

cent. I asked him how can you use a credit Weposit of that type

to arrange that kind of a lagn and he said, “Well these things -
are done, and don't worry about it." 80 I called OWEN MEDDLES

and explained to bm that I don't particularly like this way

of raising money. An hour later I was called on the carpet z
and was told that I made too many phone calls, and I trusted

too many people, and I talked too much and that this man _
owed $32,500 and he better get it in because we are going to VE
pay $325,000. I said, "Well, I like to know-how but I won't

talk any more." I later learned that OW DLES, is to receive

back 2 per cent of the 10, so he must been part of the z ce
arrangement. Then I received a package ¢alled Pocono Downs Race
Track at Wilkes Barrie, Pennsylvania, and they wanted to borrow
$3,500,000 and it came through OWEN MEDDLES. I had no way of
financing it and was going to give it back and say I couldn't

A

7

Qe

~ Wer
COVER PHCE

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 13


CG 137-5316 '

12 ‘ i

handle it, because I had not looked, at the plans or made any ‘

surveys on it. I told them that I was going to send it back. |

Tey gave me the wort! I shouldn't send it back, that they

couldbandle it, and they had a way of funding it and would Hy

send it through the Denver Office of National Security.

From Denver it went to Dallas and it is now in the Dallas Office, ;

4 fellow by the name of MESSINA called me from New York, and ‘

said he was a principal at Pocono, and if we put it through ‘|

would there be a percentage on the concessions and programs.

I said, "Who are you, Mr. MESSINA?" He said, "I'ma princy:l"

jn a very gruff voice. I said, "Well, I don't see your name

on the list of principals." He said, "Lets just say that I'm !

a principal and I have other people handling it for me." About i
~ ~g half hour later I got chewed out by FIDANZI.

In October, apparently they sa¥ the projects that I
had coming and they were all excited so then it became a question
_as to who was to run the operations. They had signed this eqntract
with Mr. BILLINGSLEY and I learned that they had collected }
$25,000 and I don't believe more than $2,0Mo0f it got into the :
bank. I had been to Denver with BOB FERRELL and met the . :
Denver people and then I met JOE STEIN and they agreed that
STEIN would help us. There was dissension between FIDANZI,
RUBINO, and DAUBER.

So on a Saturday in October, I got a telephone call {
- from-GUS RUBINO and he said, "Cah you work with me?" I said;
"Yes, I'm World Wide Mortgage, so if you can get mortgages,
yes." An hour later I got a call from FIDANZI and he said i
GUS RUBINO was out and, "Will you work with me?" I said,
“you fellows don't seem to understand this, but this is a
| company that I am running, and I am World Wide Mortgage,
| and don't make a statement of that nature." He said,
| "Well the man decided that RUBINO is out. I said, "Who's the
man?" He said, "Never mind.“ Then DAUBER got on the phone
| and using very vile language’ said, "Well I was at GUS' house

_o.-
COVER PAGE

_ NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 14


Tr)
)

CG 137-5316

13 i

when you told him you would work with him." I sai,

"J'm World Wide Mortgage and I will work with those people that
can perform in the field of financing." "I know where I have
the projects.” don't know RUBIKO." "I don't kow FIDANZI
and I don't know You." About this time no question was in
my mind what I wis getting myself into. I gaid, "I would
like to talk to the man and before I go any further, I want
to know what I'm getting into.” He said, "Well, can you
quietly sneak into Chicago, put don't you tell FIDANZI

I'm arranging it."

So I came in Sunday morning on the 8:00 plane and only
RUBINO was there. He took me in a car and I said, "Who am
~ <I going to see." He ssid, "I don't use names, You are eting
a man by the name of JIM." Bo ft watched where we went we
went to 10309 South Laramie, and I went in and I met a gentleman
introduced to me as JIM C, and told “fou can call him JIMMY."
He said, "Who can you work with, RUBINO or FIDANZI", I said,
"J want to know what this is leading to” and he said, “We
need college educated men, men of good background who have
legitimate programs and we want to keep it legitimate. We :
have ways of raising money through banks and insurance companies ~
all very clean and legitimate, and I don't want anybody interfering
with it.” "Can you work with RUBINO?" Imid, "If he can get
_committments, yes." He said, "RUBINO can get four coumittments
in one week." This land loan he spoke of; the Gary High Rise
committment; a loan to a man where they were going to make
$45,000 cach; and he mentioned fourth one which he didn't tell
about, but it was smaller, Theg JIM asked me if I could work ©
with FIDANZI and I said 1 can work with anyone at World Wide.
What would he do? He said, "Well, I wouldn't do _ cee
anything", I said, "FIDANZI took this Denver package of mine and
he sold it to a group". JIM really got mad and’ said,
"He sold it to him for how much?" I said, "$25,000,"

He said, "Did you need the money?" I said, "No. That is what ,

I don't like." DAUBER then came in and said ‘that they

decided that I would stay with RUBINO because he could get
commitments and DAUBER would stay with FIDANZI so that he = |”
would know what FIDANZI was doing so that he could report quickly
to JIM and RUBIXO. : ,

~ P- if

CoveR PACE

|
NW 68462 Docld:32329577 Page 15



>
>)

CG 137-5316 ‘
44

We moved out to RUBINO's real estate office called
King's Rental, 14428 South Western Avenue, Posen, Illinois.
Wefwere there for about a week and out of a clear blue sky
FIDANZI and RUBINO were good friends and I said, "I would
like'to talk to the man ‘again to see what the situation is.”
fo RUBINO and DON ROSS and DAUBZR and I went back to JIM C's
home. He decided that RUBINO's time was up and he couldn't
get the commitments but FIDANZI knew how to raise the money
and that he was supporting business. I again asked how
ig he supporting the business when he collected $25,000 that
FIDANZI did sign and the money was never deposited, he
_ just put it in his pocket and he went. That was the night
---JOE BANANAS' mother died and they were having a wake in
Chicago Heights and over the phone by code they said,
"JOE's mother's waxe, you know where, and he wants you there
at 8:00." FIDANZI went there and JIM told him, "Get the
Denver Package back or you put the $25,000 back." That is
‘when it really dawned on me there was going to be no package or
$25,000 back. When I got the mail in November, there was
a letter from Ashland State Bank stating they chose not to have
us as an account." .

CoveEk PACE

: |
NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 16


>

We had my secretary, Mrs. ROSE BECK, call ASHLAND .
to find out why and we learned that a check for $5,700 had been
written on our account that GUIDO FIDANZI had taken. They
had schemed up an arrangement with a fellow by the name of DON
BLAZAVIER who is an innocent dupe and whom they have gotten for
about $30,000 to date. Now what he was to do with this check

was they had arranged to take it to a fellow by the name

of

BICKL in Kenosha and he would give them $5,700 in cash, hold
the check for a few days and then deposit it. And, GUIDO

FIDANZI got the $5,700, and he got two additional checks

that I

don't know their exact amounts, but I know that the three checks

together totaled $10,800, The $5,700 check was not held
but immediately deposited with the bank the next day and
closed our account.

by BICKL
they had

That is when I said that I demanded to see JIMMY

because I don't want to have anything to do with that at

all,

that there was not any attempt being made to be legitimate and I

"wanted out. So I got a call by coincidence fram GUIDO F:
and I said, "GUIDO, I have typed up my resignation and I
an explanation for the $5,700." I said, "I also want an
explanation for the $25,000", and he says, “Well the ope
funds for the company have come out of my pocket." And

IDANZI,
want

rating
r,t

said, "How could that be? How much have you put in?" 80 he
went down the line and he itemized about anything that he could
possibly think of, including fictitious payments to themselves,

and he could only go up as high as about $14,000. 80 I

said,

"Actually, then GUIDO, you haven't put any money iny ave you?”

And, he said, "No, but it was my idea as to how to get 1
BILLINGSLEY.” I said, "I was told that I was president

t from

and that you fellows were not involved, and that this would

be cleaned up, It isn't going to be and I'm resigning.”
And, with that BILLY DAUBER got on the phone and snarled
an animal. It was something that I can't describe. He
me with language, that I couldn't repeat, He said that

like
threatened
I was going

to stay and make my projects come through and get these deposits and

fees, He said that he didn't like me from the beginning
_ and that I didn't understand the situation, He said, "I
of guys like you with an ice pick and I'm on my way over
get you some night and gouge your eyes out or use a 45
shot,” he said, "President", he says, “I'm in charge. I

eee - £-~

CovER PAGE

bea Docld:32329577 Page 17

anyhow

take care

", and "We'll
on you.” “Big
‘m the


a ; la
anaere

boss. I*ve been the boss all along and I answer to JIMMY and =
if you want it proved,” he said, "You just get in that car and .
you head for Toledo.” He said, "we'll get you with a little ~
treatment, that we call with the shotguns, you and your

family." He said, "How would you like that?" He said, "You're
going to stay there and you're going to like it and you're going to
do what you're told to.” I said, "I want to see the man.”

He said, "You are talking to the man.” With that I looked for
FERRELL and couldn't find him, That night he called me back

and I repeated to him what was said, and I told him that I wanted
out, and he must take me to the man or whatever it is t
do to get out ‘cause I kaow where I am. He says, “Well,
can't tell you waht to do because I'm the boss up there, an
got big plans". He said, "JIMY ig just a small potato
from me," And he said, "Don't let these fellows exc
says,. "My boss is MILWAUKEZ PAIL ALDERISIO", and 6 says, “I'll put

JIMMY at any meeting at any time you want hi ere." He said,

"These two fellows, you can have them in river if you want

them." He was drunk and when he's d he talks, so the next morning
~I-went to his office and I "Look, get me to JIMMY, I

want out.” He said, "Well, Tet me show you how I operate.”

And, he drew a map, a chart, and it showed a closed line and on

the left side was MILWAUKEE PHIL ALDERISIO, and he said,"I am 4
directly under him and I answer only to him, On the r ’ ES ’
- gide is JIMMY CATUARA and MILWAUKEE PHIL tells J RA viet

to do. Xow if you have a complaint you can only take it to JIMMY

CATUARA and CATUARA takes it to ALDERISIO. Now if I have a

complaint I can only go to MILWAUKEE PHIL who will then go to JIMMY ae
CATUARA who will then take care of it, but you can't go direct. :
We're having a meeting Wednesday downtown and I will meéation

this matter there. I can't tell you and will not tell you what

to do for obvious reasons. I will call you and tell you only

yes or no and then it's up to you, put 4f you get out you will be in
our camp where there is real money, very pusinesslike and very
profitable, and we can bring you out of debt."

K Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

Well, I never got the call. ‘ 7
That night BILLY DAUBER, at the office, called me and he
apologized and said that he had heavy gambling debts and he was

under pressure and said ! trust too many "Square JOHN*S" as they
call it. é

eieicils
cove rR PACE

NW deo Docld:32329577 Page 18


Ge

,He said, "We need money and we got to get it fast because—
wa have to answer to some people." So they said that we want to get.
this going and we want you to set up a meeting with POWERS and .
BILLINGSLEY, and we will tell you about it.

Bo the next day they case in, DAUBER, FIDANZI, and a
third fellow I had never seen before, and have never seen 7
since. He was not introduced to me - Italian, slender, very
slender, usual dark clothes, weighed only about 135, about 5° 7".
He apparently took great de@ ight in setting up this meeting, and
they decided to have it at a restaurant up Korth, which they
didn't name, and then they said, "Can you get POWERS to come to
3ist and Halsted?" So I said I could and they said, "Well, we
want to talk to him, We need a lawyer and we need a good one and if
nothing else, he could steal for us, We alwaye make money with him.
We don't trust him but he has not stolen too much.” 7

So I called from my apartment POWERS, and he and BILLINGSLEY
instead of going to the restaurant, came to the apartment. I ‘called
~DAUBER ‘and said that POWERS was at the apartment and I then opened
the door and let them in, BILLINGSLEY and POWERS. They said that
they wanted me to come with them and resented the fact that I had
abandoned them. I thought that was unusual because they had
really abandoned me, because that's how I got into it.

That's like the White Sox playing the Yankees and I'm on the
White Sox to the seventh inning and then in the 8th inning I find
out that I'm on the Yankees and don’t know how I got there. They.
said, “Let's work together" and “if we can trust you we will show you
how to.really make money.”

80 they left, and about five minutes later there was a thump
on fie door and GUIDO FIDANZI, BILLY DAUBER and GUS RUBINO, who is
now back on the scene, burst into the apartment, They were loaded
with weapons and were looking for POWERS and BILLINGSLEY. I said .
they had just left and I thought this was to be a meeting. They
said, "You just trust too many people”, and walked out and slammed
the door, Then I went back to FERRELL and told FERRELL the next 5
day that I had to see the man to get permission or whatever it took,
that I was getting out. : :

| aN

| CovER PACE

\ NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 19 _



¢ : -

He said the man you work with or should work with is my
man STEIN, they make plenty of money. Bo he said, “You have i
to make the move.” a
* go they had BILLINGSLEY and POWERS go out with ny
packages and they were getting deposits from various people. They -
collected $22,000 for Truman and Company on the Gary job, and
they claimed they gave it to the attorney for Truman and Company
who ddivered a commitment.
: Then I was ordered by GUIDO to go to New York and
verify last week, which I did.

Yor all intents and purposes it is a commitnent, but there

was an application with it, and, if you have a loan you don't
have a commitment for 2 loan and then keve to fill out an
application and attach $10,000 to it. -They said,
“Well, don't worry about that. We have the money. You just get
the application signed”, and I said, "Well, the bank in Gary.is .

_. .obvieusly going to make a call. They're going to call the Truman
Company in New York and it will be verified.” 4

So, on Friday, I got the call for Tennessee Gas which I've
been waiting for for months, It involves a very legitimate deal
“with Mr. SHARPE, I mentioned that I was going to Houston; and
I told DAUBER abdtt it. I told GUIDO, and GUIDO said, "well, can't
Hy pad the deposit money from Gary?" And, he said, "We want the ”
10,000.

I says, "Well, the $10,000 you don’t get. It goes
with the application back to the Truman Company.”

oie He says, "Well, we've got to get money in this office
and we have to get it in quick.” :

I said, “Well, it's my understanding a lot has come in,
but 1 haven't seen it,” and said, "There is such a thing as income
tax". : :

And, he says, "Well, you don't write figures down and
you don't remember figures",

! And then DAUBZR Peery he wanted to be my friend and help
me out and he described that they had a meeting one week ago Monday

774
Lope’ fig

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 20



in a motel where POWERS, FIDANZI, MESSINA from New York, and DAUBER
were présent to discuss me, and POWERS said that his people wanted
me.

DAUBER says,'¥cu know they get you cne cf two ways. We
trade you or they buy flesh - you kaow what we mean?"

And I said, "I get a pretty good idea.”

: He said, “We put a $100,000 price on you. If they want
you they must pay us $100,000 and you are free."

BILLINGSLEY, after my trip to New York where I went to
Truman and Compszy ox. the Gary and Denver jobs, felt he was saving
me; as he put it, and the $100,000 wae a reasonable price to
pay because he had large sums of money in there already.

Obviozs7y I was the key and the oniy key anyone had to
making money.

I said that I wanted to be free of ary of this activity
and out of it. He said I knew that he was clean and went through
quite a demonstration of religion and prayer. He took me toa
Dr. MUNTZ outside of Philadelphia, by Kings Row or something like
that, a little suburb, ard irtrodaced me to Dr. MUNTZ, who is in
"Who's Who", a very clean and religious man, and quite devoted
man, and he verified BILLINGSLEY was a good man.

0 BILLINGSLEY said he would help me work my way out.

Then Lecauze of the heavy fog we drove from New
Carlisle, Penssylvania, to Pittsburg to catch a plane, aad
on the way I told him that they had made all kinds of threats
and it was gettirg very dangerous, and he says, "Don't worry
partner. i'm the key and I've got the power over then, and
POWERS knows all about them, and POWERS is going to get you out and I'tn
going to get y-4 ont, and because of what Itve got over them.
I've paid a >:+ of money, and if it came to that I'd go to the FBI
4f it coslda't do.”

This was later mentioned by telephone to POWERS » and ©
POWERS emphatically said, "You never go there because you'd never
live, BILLINGSLEY said that the LORD protected him, he was right,
and if he went nothing would happen to hin.” POWERS said in this
case he wouldn't stop bullets.

Sel a“

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 21 Cover Vidal



. hen, when I got back to the office on Friday I
talked to DAUBER again, and he told me he had my diary exd I
eu "I figured you would have and what are you goicg to do about
it é

He said, "You know FIDANZI and POWERS are working
together. " He said, "They have stolen a lot of monsy i2 two
weeks. Now you told me about $10,800 and JIMMY kaows about
$45,000 also, I think the noose is going to be put co FIDANZI
even though they are related, and I don't think it's going to
be much longer. Now we had this meting on you to decide whether
you were in or out, and you are in, as long as you do what you're
told, BILLINGSLEY is going to tell you what to do."

Bo I discussed with BILLINGSLEY my call from Tennessee
Gas and the urging of FIDANZI to go to Gary to get the deposit,
and BILLINGSLEY said, “By all mewns go to Houston because this man
is the kind of man that gives you an appointment maybe three
months in advance. He travels all over the world and their
subsidiaries.”

I was determined about my livelihood, in that shortly I
was getting out of this, and things like Tennessee Gas are in
my line. So the word got out, apparently over the weekend, that
I was going to Houston and that night at 11:30 GUIDO FIDANZI
called me, and in a blinding rage told me that I was not going to
Houston, that they needed money and they needed it fast, big money,
and Gary wae big money.

He says, “Now you said you'd get the commitment, row
7 collect”, and I said, "I didn't get the commitmez?. BILLINGSLEY

He eaid, "Weil, you approved it.”

I eaid, "I dida't approve anything. I will go to Gary
but I must go to Houston.”

He said, “Don't get on that plane.”

Aud, then I got another call at 1:30 A.M. Sunday from
FIDANZI screaming and warning that he had met with the fellows and

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 22



© ¢

that they are tired of not making any money.

80, this is obviously a trap within their own group,
because JIMMY knows that they have collected over $100,00¢
and GUIDO is still claiming that he collected $16,000, aad he,
over the phone, said that $16,000 was not enough ard they had
to get the depceita in.

MESSINA said he could deliver a contractor for $275,000
on a job in Baltimore which I didn't know about, tt BILLINGSLEY
joined up with POWERS and they say that they prefer that that
not be built, that they can handle it, but they will get the
$275,000 and if anything is said they'11 shut them up, but they’ -
want the $275,000.

I said, "POWERS will have to handle that. I don't know.
anything about it.”

Backing up to the last Friday before I left, GUIDO
talked about raising money and he maw tioned in front of me tke
$6,00C that was <o pick up from Mr. AMERMAN in New York.

In front of me he called this Mr. ACE SSINA, who is i
at Winged Time, Iac., 265 West 14th Street, 904, New York. vy, :
His phone numter is WA 4- ia me ry yoy
New York.

- ~~ They told me that because I did go to New York and
worked on the Gary commitment and this Denver commitmert that I
was proving to MESSINA that I was okay. I wanted to know where ~
MESSINA came in and they passed that off by other conversation.

Row, MESSINA is also behind this Pokono Maror Race
Track and curses azd threatens and everything uztil that comes
through a> » ten percent finance charge with two percent Back to
OWEN MEDDLES who is at a home and commercial mortgage company in
Newark, New Jersey. ”

Se, the second time when GUIDO called he said the fellows

decided that I wanted money. He said, "We don't have a college
education but we czn think in the terms of cash.”

| Xx

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 23



GUIDO FIDANZI called Mr. MESSINA in New York, aad I
was present, and he said, "ACE, about that collection job that
POWERS spoke to you about when he was in New York for $6,909, =
go and see the man Monday or Tuesday. Give him a day and a few
hours, preferrably 48 hours to come up with the money. Be a
gentleman, keep it nice, keep it neat, after 48 hours," he said,
"You know what to do,”

MESSIRA mist have said okay and he wiil take care of it.
S That was Friday.

AMERMAN is a little fighter, so if he did get contacted
I think he would teil you - I'm pretty sure he would te21 you,
he's a fighter,

Then going back again to my Saturday calla, Sunday
morning I was caZled by GUiDO FIDANZI who said that he had mat
with the fellows and they wanted me. He said, "We don't have
a college educaticn but we know how to collect money ard you
are going to collect it or we are going t> have to show you how.”

He used all kinds of profanity ard threats as to what they
were going to do and he said, "You will call your ‘billionaire -:
SOB' in Vancouver and tell him not to go to Houston, he owes us
$30,000 on his commitment for the cement." .

setae I said, "You gave him no commitment for the cement
plant. You introduced him to no principals.” a

He said, "I don't give a damn, Who does he think he is,
some kind of god or something, that we have to introduce bim ie
to principals. He wants money, we've got money. He'll pay the
deposit quick. You get him into Chicago and that's an order, and Iil
collect the money, FERRELL's out. I'm telling you, don't get on
that plane and don't you let SHARPE get to Houstcn, everybody shows
up in Wheeling Monday and we are going to decide who's what and
what the next thing is going to be.”

So, first thing Sunday morning I called BILLINGSLEY

and he sayz, “Look, POWERS has the control over those fellows and_
can hendie them, The LORD is with us and will protect and I
have control over those fellows because of the money. you

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 24 :



trust us and we'll buy you out of there but talk to BAMUEY
because he can do it and I will see him Monday.” =

I said, “Have HARVEY call me.”

Anyway, HARVEY calls me and tells me the exact
opposite. "You better show up at the meeting in Wheeling ‘and you
better not go to Houston.” .

80, I call back BILLINGSLEY and told him, He couldn’t
believe it and he said, "You must learn to trust POWERS", and
I said, "Well, believe me, at this stage of the game, Itve had it
and you better know who's lying.” :

~ : 80 I then made the call to your Tolédo Office and the
-- Cleveland Office and then snuck into Chicago and took the 7:15

plane to Houston, When I got there I figured I was all right
Because no one would figure that one out but they paged me, and so
I figured “no, I'm not going to take the-page”, that would : ‘
@Riy identify me. So I stepped into » phone booth and telephoned
for the message and they gave me "Please call Operator 33" and gave
brdibtziee yrieas which was GUIDO'S number and I said thank you and
that was it.

. I went to the hotel with SHARPE and we discussed shortly
J what we were going to discuss and I went to the lobby and
made the call to this SANDRA SADILLO, I called her from a pay
phone because I didn't know anyone or what and didn't want to
talk long and said the threat was made again to me because they
eed I'm here and I think they are going to meet the plane when I'm.
We went over to the Tennessee Gas Office building, 30
stories high, largest utility in the world - to give you some
idea of the great number of employees. We are standing at the
reception desk, BILL SHARPE here, Mr. WHITMER, Senior Vice
President of the company.and President of most of their
subsidiaries next to me, and the phone at my fingertips rings and
the young lady says, "It's a call for you." It's GUIDO FIDANZI,
He auys, "J gee that you got there, and I see that you don't listen,

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 25



and I guess you don't answer my page”, and I said, "I didn't take
your page.” He says, “Miss So and So, whom I called twice, on the
Second call said you picked up the message", and I said, “On

word of honor I did not pick up the message and you call her back",

It's true, I did not take that message and it would still
be laying there. Apparently someone was there. In this tremendous
buildfgg they knew exactly where I was standing, which was no
where near WHITMER'S office, We conducted our business which
showed a very fine opportunity in 1965 which I want, I want it
very badly. I didn't know what would ppen when I got back to
Chicago and stepped off the plane night.

I'd like to add that J<YSARHO ig from Atlanta, Georgia,

~~. and owns several very elaborate motels - the Atlanta Cab: 7] :

Dallas Cabana, and the Los Altos Cabana. He approached our group

with a proposition to finance the Desert Cabana in Las Vegas for

which he has leased the land, He told me that he had $9.7mi2lion loan

from the Teamsters, that he knows HOFFA personally and intimately,

and they talk once a week and that ten percent of the stock goes

back under the table in another name to JIMMY HOFFA,

He said if we came up with two and one-half million for
the second mortgage, and one million for the gambling guarantee require
by the State of Nevada, and a contractor who would hold his profit
to the end of the job, we would have seventy percent of the venture.
They wanted the deal real badly, the group here. This was handled
downtown, so this was above JIMMY, ~

I know that to be a fact. That would have to be STEIN'S
office.¢ffhe term downtown from FEERELL has always meant STEIN'S
office and he is always there in the afternoon, If I wanted him

( now I could call him and he would be at STEIN'S Office. Then they

wanted DALE ROBERTSON to front it.

I called and went to see DALE out in Hollywood and
explained to him and told him he should say “no” because of his
commitments, He said “no” and 1 discouraged the contractor from
going into it. I got called by J. SABRNO two weeks ago tomorrow
(November 25, 1964) wherein hoe said that he had just spent two
days in Las Vegas with severai of the Teamster trustees and they
were going to also buy out a hotel in Reno. I have got the name
of the Black Mare or something. He said they positively re-committed

-4e

Cev Fe PACE

ww 88262 Docld:32329577 Page 26


©

f a : ae
this deal to them and he says, "I have ho fear of losing that one.”

He says, "So don't worry about that but are your people going to
move?”

And I told him no and with that he hung up, Our people,
GUIDO and all, said that they want him to go to Las Vegas very
badly and to do anything we can in order to get him there.

I said, “I know of no way at the present time to do it.”

So, they didn't press that matter but they are fanatical
now about getting this money in.

I don't recall the date but I gfess it was around

maiintil September or October, somewhere in ther y a series of
ephone calls I know that RUBINO, PH, ALDERISIO, and CHARLIE
es ‘ORK flew to St. Louis and saw a gentl n by the name of STEVE Me.

LUMETTA of 1795 Dunn Road, St. Louis, Sherwood 1-5100, because he

Ly had a contractor who was going to pay $200,000 cash for the
<, privilege of doing the Gary job, in advance. They d that there
WA could be no Gary job. Beceet

Then I learned th
I don't know how but JIM JACKSON is now the authorized agent for a
group of legitimate businessmen in Pueblo, Colorado, to sell one
million four hundred thousand worth of stock in this new race
track that is under construction. And, I understand, he has been
paid either thirty-five thousand or_ fifty thousand dollars. I have
heard both figures. JACKSON, LUMETTA, RUBINO and ROSS are handling
that one. They almost got their loan through Harris Trust here .
because there is a bank lawyer in a high position who passes on
these matters and they own him. He was going to handle it but they.
had no "Square JOHK" as they call them to go on th r. They
attempted to get a gentleman by the name of- HARRINGTON in
eseaaste a contractor to go on it} because he {s/the contractor

1 intend to use on the Gary job ‘cause he is good,

clean and well-established and has the pet worth. He looked
4t over and after meeting JACKSON, RUBINO and ROSS, called me up

and told me he wanted to o part of the buildings, but don't
buy the stock. He said, ‘ ook right to me.”
I said, "I'm glad you came to that conclusion.” a

o / oe)
74 oped : 4 sy “y Aa
- L a det He

td
|

54
Styne? / WE « ee ee

eI re fot
NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 27 Core a -



(- :
i

b
b

foe,

fais

u . They had been in Ché¢ago'and stayed at the Dixie Governor :
¥otel on ‘Béut#Westsee Avenue where they were trying to peddle
the stock while JACKSON’ was there. The commitments will start to

come through right now.

oa c-

Ceusk FACE

_

NW 68262 Docld:32329577 Page 28
