‘ennedy Assassination

. ecords Collection Act of
* 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

| Assassination Records Review Board
| Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10439
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

! December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

| States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.
Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

‘NW 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 1



Date:08/20/93
Page:1
| JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
| RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10060-10439

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

HSCA
FROM

DATE : 06/01/77
PAGES : 10

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
| HAUSMAN, ALAN B.

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION U
RESTRICTIONS 3
CURRENT STATUS P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

; COMMENTS :
Box 2.

({R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 2



i
I

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L, DEVINE, OHIO ,
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN. s
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. . CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER 3. BODD, CONN, HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
[ROBERT W. EDOAR,

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
GS. Bouse of Representatives

3969 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 19, 1979

District Unemployment Compensation Board
6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W.
3 Washington, D. C. 20001

Gentlemen:

The Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of
Representatives, officially terminated at noontime, Wednesday,
January 3, 1979.

In connection therewith, the below listed staff member
will terminate his services with the U. S. House of Representatives
at the close of business on January 20, 1979.

It is hoped that by furnishing the following information,
the processing of his application for unemployment benefits will be

facilitated.

TH:ht

W 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 3

Alan B. Hausman [aso |

Salary:
6/1/77 - 7/31/77 $28,000.00
8/1/77 - 2/28/78 30,000.00
3/1/78 - 1/20/79 32,000.00

Sincerely,

we Tf Mn

THOMAS HOWARTH
Deputy Staff Director
and Budget Officer

Ne


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter 4} U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE: (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i ji by ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 . authorizing official.) |

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date q |
PL Alan B. Hausman 1/4/79 a4
| Employee Social Security Number Type of Action i ot
| C0 Appointment 4
| PD Say name
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change 4 |
1 0 Termination (At close of business on effective date) d
i Assassinations C1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending 4
close of business. _ ) 4
Spay Date j
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) 4
Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* 7 4
$32,000.60
* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office. |
If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) es
\
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1 Professional. j \
2. ( \
3. D Joint Committee: |
wre

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. .If applicable, Level_

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting ‘the employment of
relatives.

. (Signature of Authorizing Official)

| LOUIS STORES

All appointments and.salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must > -
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED. |
Office of Finance use only: iD
Office Code, Benefits---_____-.---____-__-_
|
i Monthly Annuity $.2.--.-00 as of 9 Payroll______-_.4--------.--- |

i (Revised: August 1, 1977) *

» +Copy for Initiating Office or Committee. &

1
t
'
'
I
i
i
‘
i
'
'
'
i
'
t
i

Np

Nw 68261 po _
Docld:32239447 Page 4 : Ores



umm | |
PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION Fe"\ aan

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

‘Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES"

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes.
on this form must be initialed. by the
authorizing official.)

Employee ‘Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date ©

Alan 8. Hausman

Decemzer 1, 1978

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

es]

O Appointment
0 Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Oi Title Change

Assassinations

close of business__.

1 Termination (At closeof business on effective date)
D Leave without poy (Be

ith effective date above and ending

(If type-of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate’ information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

$42,760.00

* If emoloyee is a

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an’ Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

il service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual-solary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

of Sth,

Sh Congress.

1 certify that this. authorization: is not in: violation of 5 U.S.C. .3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

_ All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and: for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: =
Chairman, Committee on House Administration
Office of Finance use only: ip
Office Code...
Monthly Annuity $:__ 00 as of

Copy for ‘Initiating: Office-or Committee

losubi Se Rail ad uaa ie saad

aiid tela

hw 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 5



i

Wo - en
|) Nw 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

- >" (Please-Use Typewriter U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

P A . ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official:)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) t Effective Date ets nel
Alan 5. Hausman March i, 1978
Employee Social Security-Number Type of Action

Leveom | aa

HzSalary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee » | G Title Change
C Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

(If type of action is-an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title. Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Staff Counsel , $32,900 4

*:lf employee is a:civl service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Represéntatives), the gross annual salory shown should include the onnvity received by the employee.
plus the solary received from the employing office. i
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) }
1. C1 Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or (1 Professional: |

2. EXgSpecial (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or: Select Committee: Authority—H. Res._ 95 Gof 2523Congress. a

3. 0 Joint Committee. }

1

i

(If Employee of an ‘Officer of the House, complete item below.) 4
Position Number___________ If applicable, Level_______. Step__o_ il

|. certify that this -authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C...3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of EA
relatives. ; eo ; ee :
4

23

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official),

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for-employees. under the House Classification: Act and for Committee em:
ployees, except. those of the Committee. on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, :cnd the Joint Committees, must >> >
be approved: by the Committee on House Administration. a

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

ee Benefits ‘

Monthly. Annuity $

Copy: for Initiating Office or-Committee

whee



FI
4

: PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION -FORM.

(Please“Use. Typewriter. » U.S. HOUSE OF :- REPRESENTATIVES : (Any erasures; corrections,-or. changes... -
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C: 20515. an, nls for Pi a Cat

| To. the Clerk of the House of Representatives: ue ‘8 i

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: ]

i e Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) o[e Effective Date |
| Alan B. Hausman 8/1/77 | \
| Employee Social Security.Number ee : Type of Action - 4 \

I CO Appointment 4

| : | Employing Office or Committee we Aolory Adjustment 1

4 Assaésinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) q

| (If type of action is an Appointment or: Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) |

Position Title Gross Annual Salary : j

Staff Counse? 30,000 '

i 1

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

| 1. GJ Standing Committee: Staff—[_] Clerical or] Professional. i

| 2. CF Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 468 |

| 3. (J Joint Committee. |

(If Employee of an Officer of the: House, complete:iteny below).
Position Number If applicable, Level_
Lecertfy: that. this: authorization. is .not in. violation. of. 5:-US.G: -3110(b, prohibiting the. employment :of

relatives.

{Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

-All.appointments.and.salary adjustments:for.employees under; the House Classification; Act and-for Committee em---:
J's aployees;sexce pt. those of the-Committee. on- Appropriations; the. Committee .on-the Budget;, andthe Joint-Gommittees,-must) ‘x4
- >be approved:by: the Committee .on House: Administration: ~~ * ‘ 4

eee : APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

W 68261 eran Fi 9 F

locld:32239447 Page 7 i vs ;



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM--

(Please Use Typewriter: -°2 U.S: HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, -corréctions; or-changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on. this form must’be initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

U hereby authorize the following payroll action:

authorizing official.)

Employee Name .(First-Middle-Last)

“Effective Date

Alan 8. Hausman

i

SATT

Employee Social Security Number

fie diet  asibisumulc die uae ela aiatl

“Type of Action

C# Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

Oo Salary Adjustment

Assassinations

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the'following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel $28,000
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item’ below.)
1. F) Standing Committee: Staff—[2] Clerical or [J Professional. \ 3. . a

3. [J Joint Committee..

(If Employee of an’ Officer‘of the House, complete-item-below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level.+.

 All.appointments and: salary adjustments, for employees: under: the House Classification Act atid: for: Committee: ern: +
ployees; exceptsthose:.ofithe Committee 'on*Appropriations; the Committee ‘on ‘the Budget,’ and"the:Joint.Committees;.miust ="
be approved by the Committee on House Administration...» « Oy Pe att Ee cr erst ae .

APPROVED...

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 4685__ of 95th Congress. -

{Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

\

W 68261
locld:32239447 Page 8



—— wot fs poems

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

‘ Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member.of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in. the

certification:

father nephew 7 brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent Personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

mI am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

(i @ ; 6/2197

Signature OF Employee Date

NW 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 9


NW 68261

December 27, 1976
MEMORANDUM FROM: Sprague ; .
FOR: File on future appointments (Billie)

RE: Alan Hausman, Esq.

Spoke to Mr. Hausman. Offered him position as staff counsel with
salary of $28,000 per year conditioned upon the new House
recreating the committee and secondly appropriating the necessary

funding. Upon those cantingencies occurring, he can have the job.

He accepted on that basis.

BILLIE: Sprague said he wanted an index on future appointments

for resumes. ut >

Docld:32239447 Page 10


MEMORANDUM

TO: Bob Lehner

FROM: Tom Zam

I discussed the employment of Alan Bruce
Hausman with the Chairman this morning, and he gave
his approval for Mr. Hausman to be hired at a salary
of $28,000, effective June 1, 1977.

The Chairman does want it to be clear that
this approval is an exception to the moratorium which
the Committee has imposed on the hiring of staff at

this level.

eb

‘NW 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 11



‘NW 68261
Docld:32239447 Page 12

May 18, 1977 . be

vr. Alan p. Hausman - - aan anentst Lone?
400 argyle Road De paooros
Brooklyn", New york 11218 .-- +7"

pear Mr- Hausman? we wenn

It is with great pleasure that I welcome you.
to our staff and request .that you rpport for duty.

as staff counsel on gune ots 1977. As has peen prem

viously aiscussed with your syour salary will be
$28,000 per annume please let me know if June
is a convenient agate for goue I ook forward to
meeting with yous ean tee wbeoe

sincerely?

pouis Stokese MAC.
chairmen

pS :RIL:ek wee as

