# docid-32329856

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90088-10036

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-75147-44-567

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SU

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/06/1954

6

BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

- OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32329856 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SU 94-137

MISCELLANEOUS

The Wall Street Journal, Pacific Coast edition, reported in Sep-

tember, 1953,

that las

Vegas, Nevada is one of the nation's top boom towns.

The report states that the whirl of the roulette wheels, the clatter of slot

machines, and the pop of champagne corks are playing a medley of booming busi-

ness. for.

this ganbling necca in the Nevada deserte,

A representative of the Boulder Club reports that there was

500% increase over their 1948 level. JARE KOZLOFF of the Golden Nugget reported

that the volume is up 25% over last year and has doubled since 1948. KOZLOFF

as come the do, do, po the are ted the folden let on Decoration Day, 1953,

The journal further reported that the famed "strip" is the newest

did most, flamboyant addition to the city, and that the El Rancho Vegas Hotel

is planning to build a new swimming pool

twice the size of its present one,

and will also add 300 rooms, and will build "a new play house", total cost

$1,000,000.00. ILBUR CLARK of the desert Inn is quoted as having stated that

they plan to build a 135-room 5-story Brazilian type addition to the Desert inn.

Parking and housing have become severe problems. A strip hotel owner was quoted

as saying "Iet's face it.. Sure, we've got the deserü air, nice weather, annual

rainfall of only 4.84 inches;. Hoover Dan is nearby, the mountains only 35 miles

away for winter skiing, but if we didn't have legal ganbling, this town would

not be in business".

A. ORGANIZED GA

CS

Informants SU-295-0, SU-336-C, SU-325-0 and Su-283-C advised that

there are no organized gangs operating to their knowledge in the Las Vegas area.

Chief of Police AIL KENNEDY, Sheriff GLEN JONES, Chief of Detec-

tives JACK BARLO:, and Captain L. L. PEYTON, Chief Criminal Deputy, Glark

County Sheriff's Office, all advised that there are no organized gangs operat-

ing in the Las Vegas area.

B..

INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS:

Was.

FBI NOR 206226 Ne

BINION is at the present time a 47s, owner of

the

Horse Shoe club

located at second and remont Streets, Las Vegas, Nevada.

He recently sold

45%, to JOE BROWN, formerly of New Orleans, Louisiana, who reportedly had

gambling interests in ll parishes of Louisiana. 55 was sold to.

C. "BILL"

also of New Orleans, and reported to be a"nephew of Jo

NeV;

-

30 -

NW 64578 Docld:32329856 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SU.94-137

BINION entered a plea of guilty to 8 counts of an indictment

charging him with evasion of income taxes from 1945 through 1948.

BINT ON has

made numerous trips in the very recent past to Austin, Texas in connection with

this tax matter, and SU-336-C stated that BINION said on December 7, 1953, that

his date for sentence had been set for. December I4, 1953, and that if he came

back after his appearance on that date, he would be very happy.

BINION has paid over $500,000.00 in delinquent taxes in connec

dion with the &-count indictment on which he entered pleas of guilty to four

counts, and four counts were reportedly dismissed.-

Owners with BINION of the Horse Shoe Club are reported at the

present time to be lOBERT "DOBY DOCH CAUDILL,. C. DORSETT, and JOE BRON.

munit is the owner of 22%; BINION

owns 47/, and BROWN and DORSETT own the

haining 50%.

ev.

CLIPPINGER

Aka Badie

EDDIE. CLIPPINGER iS still operating

Moxie's Formyle, a house of

prostitution, located four miles outside of Las Vegas on the Boulder City high-

This house of prostitution sits approximately 200 yards off the Boulder

City highway; however, it is marked with a well lighted sign. The house itself

is obscured from view

by hills and a growth of trees from the highway.

CLIPPINCER was interviewed by SAs BRO C. WHEELER and IEO E:

KUYKENDALL on December 2, 1953, rélative to a White Slave Traffic Act violation,

at which time CLIPPINOiR advised that he was of the opinion that one of the vic-

tims mentioned by agents had been employed at his house of prostitution' some

time in the past but he could not recall when.

During the interview, GLIPPINGER

stated that he was a member of the los Angeles Police Department at one time

innediately after World War I, and that he remained in this department for about

3 years.

Part of the time he was on the patrol, and during the time he was so

assigned, he made 3 arrests; and that he was on the Vice Squad for approximately

one year and made no arrests. CLIPPINGER stated, "I was not much copper, I was

-trictly a businessman".

CLIPPINGER- advised that at the present time he had approximately

girls prostituting at Roxie's Formyle, and that he had approximately 20 male

employees such as maintenance men, bouncers, greeters, etc.

CLIPPINGER stated

that it was almost impossible for him to identify a prostitute who had been

in his place of business by name or description; however, he would be willing

to advise of those who had worked at Roxie's if he had an opportunity to view

their photographs.

- 31-

NW 64578 Docld:32329856 Page 3

---

## Page 4

T.

SU 94-137

taken out of the petty cash fund recently and divided as follows:

GUY MCAFEE

ROSCOL THOMAS

ARP MAM, SR.

TONYMLUCY

BUCK BLAINE

B1L00

SREEN

$25,000

20,000

10,000

10,000

5,000

5,000

Informant stated that BIAINE and GRLEN are the

men who take

"the boxes" off of the tables at the Gölden Nugget.

ARI BRICK, who furnished this information to SU-283-0, is a

part owner of the Golden Nugget and was extremely dissatisfied with the dis-

iribution of the aforementioned money.

HORSE SHOE CLUB

There has been a change in the ope ation and onership of the

horse Shoe Club since the last report of June 30, 1953.

FCI JOHN EUBANK,

SU-336-0 and SU-283-C have advised that JOE BROWN, formerly of New Orleans,

Louisiana, and his nephew,.. C. DORSEII, had purchased 50% of the Horse Shoe

Club from

BENNY BINION. On October 28, 1953, FCI JOHN BUBANK, an employee of

the Horse Shoe Club, telephonically contacted the Resident Agency at Las Vegas

and stated that BINION had rehurned from one of his court appearances in

Texas and

at that time was muving records and personal belongings out of his

office at the Horse Shoe Club and stated he had received information that

BINION had made the statement that he expected to get some penitentiary time.

JOE

• BROWN

SU-203-C has advised that JOE BRO N of New Orleans, Louisiana,

was first associated in gambling interests with SApSiLTH and I.

of houston, lexas, and that in 192? BRON moved to New Orleans and purchased

the "Jailai Fronton" for the price' of 400,000.00.. SU-203-0 stated that

BRO N's partners in this venture were E. JafMITH, who presently has a club

"ated across the Sabine River from Orange, Texas, in Louisiana. : Also, 'SAM

*.?R who bought his share in the Jailai fronton with a small bag of diamonds

ch he sold to OAKLEY

HARRIS and Sheriff CLANCY of Bernard Parish, Louisiana.

GLANCY reportedly had a 25% interest in the

Jailai. Fronton establishment.

SU-203-C stated that BRO N was previously implicated, with BILI HILLIS, SEY-

FISHER, in an oil fraud: case, and that WEISS and FISHER

were prosecuted in

this case and sent to jail.

SU-283-C advised that WEISS

now is the operator of the Roosevelt Hotel in New Orleans, and that BILXHILLISEAS

was not prosecuted in connection with the oil fraud because he was made

Ambassador to Greece for the U. S. Government, and that JOE W. BRON escaped

44 -

NW 64578 Docld:32329856 Page 4

---

