JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw Identification Form.

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
a RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90122-10081

£ RECORD SERIES: NO

i AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 62-3395-43

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO
TO: HQ
TITLE:

: DATE: 02/27/1964

CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
! RESTRICTIONS: 4
‘ CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
t DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/12/1998

* PAGES: 7
p SUBJECTS :
| MINUTEMEN
"
{ DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: — RPT.

val 6
| NW 64578 Docid:32335210 Page 1


D269 (Rev b-1-89)

G : * -

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
NEW ORLEANS KANSAS CITY 2/27/64 1/24/64 » 2/17/64
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY 1
“MINUTEMEN" SA STEPHEN M. CALLENDER dmk

CHARACTER OF CASE

INFORMATION CONCERNING
(INTERNAL SECURITY)

REFERENCE
Bureau letter to Albany and all continental offices,
1/16/64.
P ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED
BEADS HEREIN I$ UNCLASSIFIED
KANSAS CITY DIVISION DATE 42/26/32 BY Ses erg y

BUN, Ie
AT KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI

1. Will advise the New Orleans Office of the
identity of the secretary-treasurer of the "Minutemen".

2. Will also advise New Orleans of any information
available that "Minutemen" units have been established in
the territory covered by the New Orleans Office.

SPECIAL AGENT

Rectttabctdened IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

‘COPIES MADE:

2 7W-New Orleans (62-3395)
( ' pene

7-Bureau (62-107261) (RM)
2-Kansas City (62-779) (RM)
2-Memphis (RM}

Je

Clr fl aaa
‘ “z
NOTATIONS cc call
phi.
ut ith yt}
peg Us

ui io
Be het

Ve
COA! piel chaser Wey
HING OFFICE © 16-—T0824-1 c

NW 64578 Docld:32335210 Page 2


|
|
{
|
{
{>

NO 62-3395

MEMPHIS DIVISION

AT MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

Will furnish the New Orleans Office with any
information developed regarding the "Minute Men" of the
Association of Citizens Councils of Mississippi, subsequent
to the interview of ROBERT PATTERSON, Executive Secretary
in November, 1961 and also furnish the. identity if known
of the secretary-treasurer of this organization.

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Will report additional contacts with informants
and-sources regarding the. "Minutemen".

INFORMANTS

Identity Location
NO T-1 is NO 1223-C (RAC) 62-3395-37,41
NO T-2 is CHARLIE CLARENCE
PIERSON, PCI (RAC) Instant report
NO T-3 is DAVID LOUIS DAVIS,
PCI (RAC) Instant report
ADMINISTRATIVE

The files of the New Orleans Office contain the
following information:

By letter dated December 11, 1961 the Bureau
was furnished information regarding "The United States
Minutemen" which was incorporated in the State of Louisiana.
COVER PAGE
B

' NW 64578 Docld:32335210 Page 3
