# docid-32316404

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10347-10024

HQ

CR 92-3396-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

PH

HQ

DATE: 04/30/1958

PAGES: 23

SUBJECTS:

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 68262 Docld:32316404 Page 1

1?

---

## Page 2

.....=

__ COPIES MADE

Plumer

FOR REVEN AT FEINO ANER DELIVERY

TO HSCA RE REQUES! DATED J0--a

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

pi,e

NO 3117006791

NW 68262 Docld:32316404 Page 2

---

## Page 3

IH 92-437

D. CRIMINAL CTIVITIES

On March 19, 1950, DAVE ISTICCO,

who is tho subject

•I a curront anti-rackoteerin? investiration in the Philalelphi:

office,

was interviowed by SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN and he

advised that ho want to the home of JoSeTH faRram in

Apalachin, N.J., on Novemtor 14, 1957, accompanied by ANGELO

SCIANDRA.

Confirontial Informant I-3 alvisod S. FRANK W. MULDERIG

on March 23, 1953, that ho is convinced the puro se of the

meeting in Novombor 14e 1957, at

tho home of JOSSIH PARTARA

was to take control of the women's carment industry.

Ho sai

that LEONARD ILANDINO, who is a partnor of ANGELO SCIANDRA

in the S & I Machino Company, which is located in the plnt

owned by ANGELo SClaNdrA in Pittston, Ia., told him that that

was the purpose of the moeting an? furthor that on other

occasions ho heard NICK ALIMO and SiMMY DI fELL, associates

•I RUSSELL TUFALINO, discussing the purpose of the mecting and

they too in thir conversation said that was the purpose of

meeting.

T'-3 said that the only one who told him directly

the purpose of the meeting was LEONARD FLiNDIN? but on three

other occasions he overheard conversations hetween ALAIM

and DI FALL indicating the shove was the purpose of the

meeting.

The nocting was to inclulo johbors, mnufacturers,

truckers, an? others who would have only a financial interest

in the industry.

The meeting was for the purpose of deciling

what proparation or what interest or what phase of the poration

would havo

when they

took control of the industry.

they inton?

eventually t, put prassure on buyers

to force

to buy garmonts from their

I-8 said that SCIANDRA and his associates in tho

rittston area intendod

to completely dominato tho aroa from

- 46 -

NW 68262-Doeld:32316404 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TH 92-437

T-1:

T-2:

INFORMA NIS

testimony before the Federal Grand Jury,

Southern District of New York,

Records

reviewed by

SA

LELAND F. LOWERY on 2/10/58

testimony before a Spocial Federal Grand

Jury, southern District of Now York, on

I-3:

I-4:

I -5:

I-6:

T- 7:

•I- 8:

T- 9:

T-10:

THOMAS PRITCHARD, Executivo Vide-residont

rlymouth

National Bank, Plymouth, Fa.

Rocords of the Federal Bureau of Narcot

Thila-

delphia, ia.

JEK Law 1Q(a12

Now York City Anti-Crime Committoo.

Testimony fL

bofore

tho Federal

Grand

Jury,

SDNY,

I made available by

the U.S. Attornoy, SDNY,

to the New York Offico.

FCI CHARLES ARNONE

FCI JAMES VINCENT DE ANGELIS

SHELDON GODRICE, CIO, U.S. ittorney, Wilkes-Farre,

ra.

Miss LEIL. JITTON, Bell Telephone

Company,

Wilkes-Barre,

ADMINISTR TIVE FAGE

- 68 -

1092

ila

NW 68262 Docld:32316404 Page 4

---

## Page 5

1H 92-437

T-11:

I-12:

T-13:

T-14:

I- 15:

I-16:

I-17:

T-18 :

T-19:

T-20:

T-21:

T-22:

I-23:

INFORMANTS (Continued)

Dun and Bradstreat, Allentown, Fa.

WILLARD I. ISWAC, Manager, Commonwenlth Telephone

Company,

Iowanda,

E. L. EVENSON, Controllor, Commonwealth Telophone

Company, Dallas, Fa.

Miss THERESA DOUGHIRTY, Supervisor, Fell Telephone

Compan. ye

Thiindolphia, ia.

Dun and Iredstreet, 12 South 12th Street, Fhila-

dolphia, Ia.

OS LA 2

Protoxt tolephone call mado by the los angeles offico.

MiSs HELEN TURNER, New York Tolophono Company,

Buffalo, N.Y.

JAMES C. SiRiGUE, Manger, Illinois Bell

Tolophono Company, Evanston, Ill.

ROPERT KOLASANT, Manager, Now York Telephone

Company,

Endicott, N. Y.

ZOI HAROLD CRAGLE

FRED RAMAGE, Cashier, Liberty National Bank,

Pittston, 1a.

VICTOR SITULSKY, Head Tellor, First Nitimal Fank

of Exotor, Exotor, ia.

ADMINISTRATIVE jAGE

- 69 -

"?!

NW 68262 Docld:32316404 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-437

I-24:

INFORMANIS (continued)

RODERT NAUCHTON, an employee of the Veterans

Administration Regional Office, Wilkes-barre,

Fa.,

and a resident of Luzerne, Fa., who requested

his

idontity by concoaled.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following potential informants aro presently

being utilized:

JAMES VINCENT DI ANGELIS

JOSETH LATORRE (nOW PH 521-C)

CHARLES ARNONE

JAMES J. FOLK.

DE. JAMES KANE

WILLIN I. STRUFECK

ORLANDO MENCHI

DOMINIC ICLICARE

HAROLD CUGLA

DVID CARI ENTER

RUSSELL GARLIN

SYLVESTOR FALKOWSKI

JOSEIR FELDMAN

HENRY ZALE

It will be noted the last four iCIs aro omployees

› various airlinos at tho voca

Airport.

Tho following individuals aro undor considoration

for contact as potontial criminal informants.

HELEN KOZENCHAK

271 Charlos

Street

1Uz0rn0,

Ia.

Roportod to bo a girl friond of the subject. It is

oxpoctod that if she is loveloped she will he ablo

to furnish valuablo inf rmation

on the surjuct's

currant

nctivities, hangouts, and poculiaritios.

ADMINISTRITIVI LIGE

- 70 -

NW 68262 Docld:32316404 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TH 92-437

LEONARD BLANDINO

77 Wyoming Avenue

Wyomings Ia.

An associate of the subjoct in the S & * Machine

Company. If developed, he should be able t furnish

valuable information on the

subject's current

business and social activities as well as his

travel, otc.

LOUIS TRESCEETA (phonetic), bookkeeper, at ann-Lee

the past nine yoars.

Frocks, Inc., It is expectod thet sho would he

1s developed

ablo to furnish curront information on the subjoct's

business activities an!

associates.

IDMINISTRATIVE IAGE

- 71-

NW 68262 Docld:32316404 Page 7

---

