# docid-32288713

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10199-10489

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-66742-306, 307

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :,

10/07/1964

6

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

PAL, ASSOC, TRIAL, EGAN, JAMES W., BKG

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

leleased under the John F. Kennedu

ssassination Records Collection Act c

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:Nw

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32288713 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 14-13-56)

FBI

Date:

10/7/64

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (87-66742)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (87-16480) (P)

RE:

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, aka;

IRWIN S. WEINER, aka Irving

Sidney Weiner; CHARLES WILLIAM

BRAI; SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

aka: PAN AMERICAN BANK OF MIAMI,

FLORIDA - VICTIM

ITAR - EXTORTION;

ITSP; ME (ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

00: Miami

To bring the Bureau and all offices up to

date on the status of this case, the case is scheduled for

trial in U. S. District Court, 10,10/20/64.

3

Bureau (87-66742)

2 - Albuquerque

2

• Chicago

(87-19740)

2

• - Cleveland

2

• Denver (87-8318)

- Kansas City

2

• Los Angeles (87-19484)

2 - New York (87-28185)

2 = St. Louis

REC &

2 • WFO (87-9967)

87-66742-306

1 • Miami

JPL:me

& OCT

1964

(22)

x-102

()

287

6 ДОСТ 1 31

NW 68262 D681:32288713 Page-

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

HEREN iS UNGLAGMFIED

---

## Page 3

MM 87-16480

JFK Act 5 (g) (2)(D)

Prosecutors contemplate subpoenaing other persons

who were threatened by ALDERISIO even though those persons

refuse to discuss it.

The strategy is that the presence

of these people around the courtroom would discourage

ALDERISIO taking stand in his own defense which would be

an advantage to the prosecution.

They will probably subpoena MORRIS LITBERG and

from Los Angeles, and probably SEGAL,

who

was

threatened by ALDERISIO in New York City.

New York

and Los Angeles advised of this as victim might contact that

office and prosecutors will probably be in phone contact with

these witnesses and might subpoena New York agents who

worked on SEGAL matter.

By radiogram dated 10/6/64, Bureau was requested

to locate fingerprint card on EGAN's U. S. Air Force

enlistment and forward serial number to St. Louis, in order

that EGAN's service record might be checked.

Departmental Attorney advised that CHARLES W.

BRAY obtained $200,000. loan from Exchange National Bank

of Chicago, on 4/17/60.

Loan was to be used to purchase

100,000 shares of Central Casualty Co. stock.

BRAY's security

on loan was his assignment of anticipated commissions from

United Benefit Fire Insurance Co. and Oxford Agency, which

he expected to earn by writing bonds for the Teamsters Union.

Chicazo is requested to contact Exchange National

Bank and obtain a summary of the records they have relating

to this transaction as well as identify person who could

testify to same, since prosecutors may desire to issue

121

subpoena duces tecum on matter.

All offices handle these immediately and suairtel

reply followed by 302's.

ALDERISIO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED: AND DANGEROUS

SINCE HE IS ALLEGED TO CARRY A GUN IN A SHOULDER HOLSTER.

TRAFFICANTE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS DUE TO

HIS PAST ASSOCIATION IN CRIMINAL, ACTIVITIES.

NW 68262 Docld:32288713 Page 3

---

