# docid-32329109

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90084-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56.327 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NSA

FROM:

NSA

TO:

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/28/1970

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1'

NW 66327 Docld:32329109 Page 1

---

## Page 2

3/0

28 MAY 70 1211:

T0 2210 (T3)

0//1S

0// HCE - YRTA

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

FBI

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

13, 3, 4, 5

COMINT

REPORT

R22-70 [TS]

120/48

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

WARNING

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

the meanine of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those

persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

information in order to perform their duties.

No action is to be taken on information herein reported, re-

gardless of temporary advantage, if such action might have the

effect of revealing the existence and noture of the source.

RAM SUrE - Seneral

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

64-330 - 406

NOT RECORDED

(s)

INDEXED

NW 66327 Docld:32329109

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO SECRET UMBIA

3/0

7R22-70 (TS3

WXX/POPT, INSE - Y/Bo

28 MAY 70 1211Z

O/YS

0/HCF-YRTA

TRAVEL OF COMMUNIST NATIONALS TO LATIN AMERICA

The information in this report was derived from Latin:

American communications and is arranged alphabetically under

nationality of traveler in the following order: name; travel

from/to; remarks. The message from/to, date, system and

worksheet number appears in parenthesis. When the same

travel and message information applies to more than one

10: Cuban

1. BATISTA FALLA,

LAUREANO; Venezuela/ Ecuador; Ecuadoran

tourist visa authorized for subject and his wife ADELA DE LA

CAMPA DEBATISTA, who live in Caracas and have been invited

to a council meeting of the American Christian pemocrats

Organization in Quito on 28 May.

_2330;L

2338)

Act 5 (9) 121 1D)

2. JARRILLO VICTORES, MARIA: Mexico/enezuela;

Dyear

Venezuelan transient visa

authorized at the request of LIZZY

AUGUSTE FRANKENSTIEN DIAMANT.

(TS]

2361)

3. ACELA GARCIA, AGUSTIN VALENTIN; Panama/El.

Salvador;

8eday Salvadoran tourist

Visa authorized.

(TS]

1553)

4.* CONDE MARTINEZ,

LUIS; Mexico/Venezuela; 1-year

Venezuelan transiet visa authorized subject and his wife

ANGEZICA TOMASAXFERNANDEZ DE CONDE at the request of AMERICA

FERNANDEZ, widow of AGUILERA.

2351)

5. *PIAZ, MAGALY: USA/ECUADOR; Ecuadoren temporary

imigrant visa authorized for wife

RALO AUGUSTO FERNANDEZ/ CEVAYLOS •

et Readoran eitizen.

2327)

(TS)

(TS]

subject's son MANDEL JORGE DIEZ TEIXEIRA.

2354)

(TS]

PAGE 1 OF 5, PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET UMBRA

NW 66327 Docld:32329109 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TC.P SECRET UMB.

7R22-70 (TSJ

3/0|

7. X FERNANDEZ ESCOBAR, JOSE, Mexico/Venezuela;

1-year

Venezuelan transient visa authorized at the request of FELIX

DE JESUS FRANCISCO JIMENES.

2353)

8. X FERNANDEZ SOTO, ZOE DE LA CRUZ, Mexico/Venezuela;

1-year Venezuelan

transient visa authorized at the request

of

subject'& aunt AMERICA FERNANDEZ, WidOW Of ACUILERA.

12350) [TS]

9. GUERRA, FRANCISCO A--USA/Colombia: 30-day Colombian

single entry visa authorized.

TS]

[T5]

10X IGLESIAST EDROSA, JOSE; Mexico/Venezuela; 1-year

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subject and wife

AMELIA/ VICENTE CALBEIRO at the request of their daughter

ESTRELLA IGLESIAS VICENTE®

2352)

(TS)

JIMENEZ, BRITO, VLISES, Mexico/Venezuela; Vyea

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subject, wife

/AIDA BRAVE

(CHAZABAL and their minor daughter MABEZ JIMENEZ BRAVO at the

request of RAUL FLORENTINO BRITO DEZ TORO.

2360 TS.

12• LOBAINA, MORGADO, LORENZO; Mexico Venezuela,

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subjecs, wife

EDNA MARTA JUAN

PITA DELOBAINA and their minor children fLEANA and

LORAINA JUAN st the regest of subject' brother-10 312355) [TS]

ISIDRO JUAN PITA.

XMACADAN FERNANDEZ, SERGIO

Mexico/Venezuela;

I-year

Venezuelan transient visa authorized subject, wife

YOLANDA

MENENDEZE OVOA and their minor son SERGIO MAGADAN MENENDEZ.

at the request of EUSEBIO AMADOR NOVOA VISUNA•

MENDOZA, MODESTO ARMANDO: USA Colombia; 30-day

single-entry visa authorized.

[TS]

5201)

15. AMITTER LADRON DE GUEVARA,

EDUARDO JESUS; Venezuela/

Argentina; Argentine

emergency passport No. 15114.

TEREd for beater of venezuelan

[T57

5707)

16. MORFT BRAVO, MARIO ALBERTO; Mexico/Venezuela;

1-year

Venezuelan transient visa

authorized at the request of NICOLAS

ARMANDO ORTEGA GONZALEZ.

[TS]

2358)

- 2-

TOP SECRET UMBRA

NW 66327 Docld:32329109 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TC SECRET UMBI

3/0

R22-70 (TS)

17. XPEREZ:

FRANCISCO ANDRES: U.S./ Colombia; 90-day

Colombian visa authorized.!

75211) (TS]

18. PEREZ, PRIETO, ONETIA: Cuba Mexico/ Venezuela; Mexican

transit visa requested.

TST

1558)

19. *SIERRA, PAULINO ALBERTO: USA/Colombia; 30-day Colombian

tourist visa authorized.

5200) [TS]

2. Czechoslovak

20. XCIGLER, STANISLAW; Czechoslovakia/Ecuador, Ecuadoran

vist requested for technician with the State Company. CHRANA,

to discuss hospital equipment.

[TS]

3. East German

21. PERSCHON, KURT: Czechoslovakia/Ecuador; 9O/day Ecuadoran

business

visa authorized fro sepresentative of FRUCHTIMEX to

negotiate a banana deal.

2328; (TS]

2336)

22. SCHWEITZER, DANIEL (See PERSCHON, KURT)

EK Act 5 (9) 12) (D)

4. Hungarian

23. ABRI, LASZLO; Peru/Venezuela; Venezuela visa

authorized

subject, member of Hungarian Delegation.

(TS)

24.

AKAR, LASZLO (SEe ABRI, LASZLO)

25. DECKER, GYULA (SEe ABRI, LASZLO)

26. KRACSEK, JANOS (See ABRI, LASZIO)

27. NAGY, MIKLOS (SEe ABRI, LASZIO)

28. YTAKACS, JUDIT; Brazil/Colombia; 90-day Colombian

ficial visa granted to attend VIl International rair.

29. TOROK, ERNO (See ABRI, LASZLO)

30. VALYI, PETER (See ABRI, LASZIO)

- 3-

TOP SECRET UMBRA

NW 66327 Docld:32329109 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TEP SECRET UMB.A

1R22-70 (TS)

3/0

31% VINCE, JOSZEF, USA/Mexico/Central America; Mexican

visas requested for Ambassador VINCE and Second Secretary

JANOS DOMENY for tourist visit prior to.

official visits in

Central America

(ss 3/0

I01-70).

1561)

5.

Polish

32.

HOLUBOWUCZ,

(See MARZYSZ, --)

33. JABLONSKI,

-;

(See MARZYSZ, •-)

MARZISZ,

-;Poland/Uruguay, Uruguayan temporary

visas requested for delegates from Foreign Trade office of Animex

who are interested imnegotiating meat pnrchases with

Frigorifico Sudamericano S.A. and holding conversations with

experts in the Ministry of Agriculture and Liyestock.

11749V

3J

6.

Romanian

Act 5 19) 12) (1)

35. POPA, NICOLAE: Romania/Uruguay: Uruguayan

transit

visas requested.

71748) (T5]

36. POPA, VIORICA; (See POPA, NICOLAE;)

7. Soviet

- 37. SOLOVENSHKO,, ALEKSANDR; USSR/Mexico; DipLomatic

visas requested for New Soviet Military and Air attache in

replaces KONSTANIIN BOGATIREV

requested LATYSHEV. NIKOLAI, OSSR/Mexico; Mexicen deficial vise

for guest of International Soccer Federation to

take part in conference of Soccer Umpires for World

Championship.

1559) (TS]

39.

MOSYACOV, ALEJANDRO; [See LATYSHEV, NIKOLAI]

TRAPEZNIKOY, NIKOLAI, USSR/Mexico; 30-day Mexican

visa authorized for specialist in Soviet surgical equipment to

talk to Mexican hospital authorties.

(TS]

1560)

41 Moisselev Youth Ballet N°

visas requested for this group:

4146)

Brazil/Chile; ChileaD

[TS]

=4=

TOP SECRET UMBRA

NW 66327 Docld:32329109 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TC? SECRET UMB..A

3/0

1R22-70 (TS)

8. Yugoslav

JONE

42. X CENSBERGER DEVRAKCIC, (FNU]; Yugoslavia/Argentina;

An Argentine tourist visa was issued to the bearer of Yugoslav

AUGUSTUS •

Aust a spect munter da 21649 He 11 arrive

June on the

WS NR. 5706

EK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

4301 KAJGANOVIC, LAZO; Yugoslavia/Brazil, Subject, who is

associated director of the Jugomineral firm in Zagreb and who

has passport NI. HA041552, requests a temporary business visa.

He will depart from Zagreb on 10 June and will remain in Sao

Paulo for three months carrying out business contacts with SPIG

(Sociedade Paulista de Imstalaçoes Gerais Itda.)

16661)

issued to member of trade delegation.

26 May on Varis Airlines Flight NI. 863.

(5705)

[TS]

35

- 5=

TOP SECRET UMBRA

NW 66327 Docld:32329109 Page 7

---

## Page 8

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

NW 66327 Docld:32329109

Page 8

---

