JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/14/201

" Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10286-10295
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-6054-3RD NR 578
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, CV
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 01/31/1964
* PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
LCN, OC, MAFIA, LEADERSHIP, JHO, ASSOC, MEMBERS,
- CRIMINAL ACT
| DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
| CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/29/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE. .

COMMENTS :

vol

NW 68262 Docld:32304665 Page 1


9-36 (Rev. 1%
£D=36 (Rev. ae

ain

—/ Transmit the following in.
Via_AIRTEL

DIRECTOR, FBI (5T-T42)

FROM: / ‘SAC, CLEVELAND (157-127)
CAVBOMB

CRIME CONDITIONS YOUNGSTWON AND
MAHONING COUNTY, OHIO
AR

(CVfile 92-621)

© 557

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
CLEVELAND DIVISION
_A(CVEL1e 92-477)

“LA COSA_NOSTRA, Aka ee
AR - “CONSPIRACY :
(CVfile 92-748)

Re OV airtel.to Bureau, 1/24/64;. :

7 ~ Bureau

- 162-9-Sub-11 ‘ ws
= 92-6658) (Zenit
2 - Gincinnati
1 - Detroit (Info) 184 FES 5-
4 — Cleveland
1 - 92-621
1 - 92-477
1 - 92-748
SEP/jel
G4)

Approved ce say Sent

Special Agent n arge

ee

See Docld:32304665 Page 2


ev 157-127

7 CV-278-0 TE, CV-344-c, and ANDREW R, MARINO, POL,
Have all furnished info re membership in the ‘ organization"
in the Youngstown area. All have advised theré are two dis-
tinct groups, and for purposes of this communi¢ation, are
divided into the "Calabrese" and the "Sicilians".

The "Calabrese. Organization" i

~~ GV=278-G TE has advised that. DOMINICK MALLAMO, Aka.,
"pag Dom" is the activé head of the "Calabrese" group in
Youngstown, and that his #°l man, or assistant is his nephew,
JAMES PRATO, Aka'"2 Gun Jimmy". He advised that PAUL ROMEO
of Campbell had been. the active head of the group, but due
to his advanced age, and his 111 health, is more or less in
a retired status, however, MALLAMO still clears certain things
with ROMEO before giving the final word on a decision of
importance.

Cv-344-C.has advised that the "Calabrése" are
represented by MALLAMO who is a more or less successor to
PAUL ROMEO, and that MALLAMO is close to TONY MILANO in OV.
Second. in command, according. to CV-344-C is MALLAMO's nephew,
JAMES PRATO. CV-344-G regards TONY MILANO as:-head of. the
GV group, and his first: assistant is FRANK DE AUGUSTINI. . ‘He ‘
stated that MALLAMO's group in Youngstown is under the 'con-
trol of MILANO in Cleveland.

PGI MARINO stated MALLAMO is the top "organization"
man in. Youngstown at présent, and that JAMES PRATO is presently
in the # 2 spot and in all probability will be MALLAMO's
Successor, He advised that in about 1930, MALLAMO shot and
killed a man in Youngstown, an Irishman who was dating one
of MALLAMO's girl friends. MALLAMO allegedly paid off the
prosecutor in the amount of $2,000 and was required ‘to leave
the country for 6-or 7 years. PGI stated he is certain there
is no record of this murder in. the files. of the Youngstown
PD.  PCI:also advised MALLAMO had a brother, NICK MALLAMO,
who allégedly head of the Youngstown "organization", but was
later killed by members of the "organization". PCE aiso
stated that CICCIO (FRANK) MILANO controlled the "Calabrese"
group in CV prior to moving to Mexico, and now his brother,
TONY. MILANO controls the group. i

“ : ; eo

oe

i
} NW 68262 Docld:32304665 Page 3


GV 157-127
sie The following individuals are members of the
“Calabrese organization" in the Youngstown area, and are
under the control of the "Calabrese organization" in ov
according to previous mentioned informants:
DOMINICK MALLAMO, Aka "Big Dom"

JAMES PRATO, Aka "Two Gun Jimmy" (nephew of
‘ MALLAMO)

. PAUL ROMEO. (retired)
MIKE ROMEO (brother of PAUL ROMEO)
MIKE ROMEO (son of PAUL ROMEO)
PAUL ROMEO, JR.x.(son of PAUL ROMEO)

DOMINICK PRATO (brother of JAMES PRATO, and
nephew of MALLAMO) :

ANTHONY AULISIO
LOUIS. TIBERIO teeter
JOHN "POPEYE" STEVENS, Aka John Di Schiavo
DOMINIC STEVENS (brother of JOHN STEVENS)
FRANK "CHEECH" MARTEL ,

FRANK (INU), who operates the Bar B Bar, Mac.,
: 718 Market Street, Steubenville, Ohio |

TOMMY BRUNO, Cuyahoga- Falls, Ohio

: The ‘Sicilian Organization"

; OV=278-C'TE has statéd that ANTHONY DELSANTER of Warren,
Ohio, is a member of the "Sicilian" group, and is tied in

-3- a

7

! NW 68262 Docld:32304665 Page 4


Cv 157-127

directly to JAMES LICAVOLI, Aka., Jack White, of CV. He
stated that when JOSEPH DI.CARLO, Aka., "The Wolf", was in
power in Youngstown in the 1940's, he was the top man of this
group, and when DI CARLO left Youngstown, JOSEPH ROMANO was
no doubt one of the leaders, but he too has left Youngstown.

CVv-344-c advised that DELSANTER became “boss" when
MIKE FARAH, a Syrian, was murdered at Warren, Ohio, on 6/10/61.
He advised that LICAVOLI is the head of the "organization"
in CV, and in command in order are "WHITEY" BESASE of Toledo,
Ohio, and JAMES and ANTHONY LA FATCH of. Akron.

‘PCI MARINO advised that at one time, DI CARLO was
undoubtedly the boss of Youngstown, however, at the present
time, DI CARLO isa real "has been". He stated DI CARLO is
being taken care of financially by JOE MASI of the DE "Purple
Gang", who suppésedly has. loaned: DI CARLO over $200,000, :
MARINO also advised re Youngstown member. WILLIAM LANEINI, Aka.,
"Billy Sunday", that: he is°a close friend of NICK DIFTA, of
the DE "Purple Gang", and that DITTA i8 a close friend of
JIMMY HOFFA, and it was through DITTA that. the hoodlum = ~
element penetrated into the labor unions. He further. advised
that at one time DITTA was shaking down a tan by the name
of BENNETT, an Italian, who was a high official in the Ford
Motor Co., DE. He stated DITTA anda number of other DE
hoodlums. were. actually on the Ford payroll, and that. pars of
the. shake down was the result of threats to kidnap HENRY.
FORD's children and grandchildren. He stated that & 28
opinion, DITTA is now taking care of LANTINI for some wekmown
reason, . : ;

, The following individuals. are members of the
“Sicilian organization" in the Youngstown area, and are under
the Gontrol of the "Sicilian organization" in GV afd :
jurisdiction of JAMES LICAVOLI, Aka Jack White, accor
the previous mentioned informants:

ANTHONY DELSANTER, Aka "Tony the Dope"
JOHN LICAVOLI (brother of JAMES LICAVOLI)
: :

| NW 68262 Docld:32304665 Page 5



ov 157-127

The NAPLES brothers
The CARABBIA brothers
The DE NIRO brothers

It is further not known at. this time what JOSEPH DI CARLO's actual
affiliation might be, and DOMINICK MOIO's (deceased) affiliation
might have been, a

LEADS
CINCINNATI

At Steubenville, Ohio

“Will identify FRANK (LNU), operator of the Bar B Bar,
Inc., 718 Market St:, and advise of his background and activities
‘and. any eae Youngstown connections other than those named
by CV-278-C TE

For the info of the CI office, this case is being
handled as a Bureau Special, and expeditious handling of this
lead is requested,

.
r
se

} NW 68262 Docld:32304665 Page 6

