# docid-32298619

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10395

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-530

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/09/1963

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/22/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992(44 USC USC Notel. Case# N

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32298619 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

The Las Vegas Office advised on 11/5/63 that at

approximately 9:30 p.m. on 11/2/63 Special Agents of that office

observed ROSELLI in

the lounge of the Desert Inn Hotel sitting

at a table with MORRIS KLEINMAN and NICHOLAS DANALEO,

aka

"PEANUTS."

ARNOLD HOFFMAN, PCI, advised that the records of the

Cogan-Rety

Travel Bureau,

Beverly Hills, California, reflect that

on 7/18/63 FRANK SINATRA arranged for transportation for about

25 persons via WAL from Los Angeles to Reno; that later SINATRA

transported 10 of these persons to Cal-Neva Lodge at Lake Tahoe

via his personally-owned plane and the remaining number traveled

via WAL.

HOFFMAN had no record of the names of these persons.

It 1's recalled

that ROSELLI and MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN

departed Los Angeles on the morning of 7/18/63 and allegedly

went to Cal-Neva Lodge at Lake

Tahoe; however, the means of travel

has not been known.

The records of wAl rellect that 23 persons, identilled

as "members of SINATRA party"

were scheduled to travel from

Los Angeles to Reno on WAL Flight 408 which left Los Angeles at

9:00 a.m.

Ten of these persons were shown

"no shows.

the remaining 13 were J. ROSELLI and an M. FRIEDMAN.

Among

JACK WALTERS, PCI, advised on 11/7/63 that MAURICE H.

FRIEDMAN returned to the Beverly Crest Hotel from Las Vegas over

the past weekend.

B. FRANK WILLIAMS, a part owner of the Hotel

Last Frontier Corporation, also returned to the hotel. WALTERS

said that the current negotiations in which FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

are involved concerns the Holidays Inns who have their main

office in Memphis, Tennessee, and that FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

recently made a trip to Memphis..

This transaction no doubt

pertains to previously mentioned plans of the Holiday Inns

to build a hotel or motel adjacent to the New Frontier Hotel in

Las Vegas.

On 11/8/63 the Los Angeles Police Department advised on

that date they conducted a surveillance of ROSELLI and he visited

the building of his accountant on West Third Street and then went

to the building where JAMES P. CANTILLON,

an attorney, who has

been utilized by ROSELLI, has an office and then proceeded to the

Hillcrest Country Club.

The Los Angeles Police Department advised

during the day on an occasion when ROSELLI was away from his car,

the officers were "going through" ROSELLI's car and he caught them

at it and became very angry.

-2-

NW 68262 Docld:32298619 Page 2

---

