JFK Assassination System Date: 5/12/201
Identification Form

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90103-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 63-4426-171

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: AL
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 07/08/1958

: ‘PAGES: — 191
SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/21/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS
COMMENTS :
6 ‘
? Note], CasetNW
\
v9.1 1

| NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 1


AL 6241152 | AVH: Pac

DETAILS:
A. MUTUAL INTERESTS OF HOODLUMS AT MEETING

I. z ‘

. On April 18, 1958, Albany.Confidential Informant
T-28, contact with whom has been insufficient to determine reliability.
and who is an Italian businessman at Apalachin, New-York, advised
Special Agents PATRICK A, MUNLEY and JAMES C.. MBE that he was
born and raised at Pittston Pennsylvania, and that he has known
DOMINICK ALAIMO, RUSSELL BU FALINO, JAMES OSTICCO. and ANGELO SCTANDRB ie
@1l of Pittston, PB mnsylvania, who are hoodlums who attended instant’.
meeting at JO: REARA.~Sr.'s estate on November 14, 1957, as oid :
being members of !the Sicilian Group in the Pittston area,

\ :
7-28 related thak SANTOMOLPE of Pittston, Pennsylvania,
is the head of all the Sicili nt astern Coast and tha Se NETS, 1,
probably the individual who gave the orders for the meeting which

was held at BARBARA's, 1-23 said that BARBARA, from his observations
of the Sicilians, would rank about either number three or four in

the Sicilian Group, *

The informant said that ‘the group that met at BARBARA's
was made up of mostly “muscle men" and apparently few of the real
leaders of the Sicilians. He. said that from his knowledge of the
Sicilians he would say that the meeting was for the purpose of
instructing those that were there concerning the new "bosses" so.
that- they would return \to their own areas and pass the word to other
Siciiians in the Broup 4)

‘ : rT 28 stated that the Sicilians for years have been
punning the "rackets" in’the Pittston, Pennsylvania-area, and that

ne has observed the activities of the individuals mentioned above

who were at the meeting and others in the Pittston area, and knows’
that they have always been involved in some kind of illegal activity.

On April 25, 1958, T-28 advised SA MUNLEY that he had
talked to SALVATORE (SAM) ALECCIA, with alias BLACKIE ALECCIA, an
associate of top hoodlum ANTHONY ‘F, GUARNIERI.on April 22, 1958.
de said that ALECCIA told. him that ALECCIA and LOUIS CORDI, another
associate of GUARNIERI, were supposed to have attended the meeting
3t JOSEPH BARBARA's on November 14, 1957, but did not make it because
of having to work during the day. Informant said he did not ask:
ynether they had intended to be at the meeting in the evening,ALECCIA

le

IW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 2


ce | _oé

vr
aE

AL 62-1152

allegedly. said that the meeting was for the purpose of naming the
bosses and that the meeting was strictly a Sicilian Group. Informant
said ALECCI4 believes the informant to be a Sicilian.

: On May 7, 1953, T-28 informed SA MUNLEY that
SALVATORE ALECCIA had appeared at informant's place of business
on Tuesday night, May 6, 1957, and he had tried to get ALECCIA
talking, but-was unable to have him make any conversation.

In respect to the above information, it is noted
that the investizations of the individual top hoodlums who
attended instant meeting have reflected that they are all of
Italian origin and a major portion of them were born abroad, and
became, naturalized citizens of the United States.

By letter dated May 2, 1958, the New York Office
forwarded to the Bureau and to Albany copies of the report of
New York State Acting Commissioner of Investi. ion SRTHUR L. REUTER
on the activities and associations: of persons identified es
present at the residence of JOSEPH. BARSARA, Sr. at Apalachin,
New York, on November 24, 1957, and the reasons for their presence,
This veport bears date of April 23, 1958..

-+ The report is 4 summary of the investigation conducted
by REUTER's office into captioned meeting upon instructions of
the Governor of the State of New York issued November 15, 1957.

The New York Office received the. report May 1, 1958,
from Chief Investigator HYMAN ROSENBLADT of the office of Commissioner
REUTER. It should be noted that the office of Commissioner of
Investigation is no’ longer exist@nt, having been supplanted by the

‘New York State. Crime Commission, set-up by leg sislati ve enactment

in 1958. . \

Tne New York Office has forwarded summaries of
information. on individual hoodlums mentioned in the REUTER report
to interested offices for their files on. the particular’ individual
hoodiums.

Additional details from this report will be set out
hereinafter.

iy pas tiastasadti

b

| NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 3


oc oe
AL 62-1152

In the instance above, related from Commissioner
REUTER! s report of JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. being stopped and
found in possession of a gun in New York City in 1931,
investigation has determined that he was accompanied by NATALE.
EVOL4, This was approximately 27 years ago. Also with them
was VINCENZO COPPOLA, : : :

The. data set forth from Commissioner REUTER's
report concerning BARBARA's arrest for murder hdve previously
been reported. It is noted that these incidents 2lso occurred
approximately 27 years ago,, and that the first murder mentioned
was allegedly due to a dispute between the victim and-SANTC
VOLPE, SAM VOLPE and.CHARLES . BUFALINO.

In .the second murder it 1s noted that SANTO VOLPE
and ANGELO POLIZZI. were allegedly involved and that during
he investigation calls were traced. from.BARBARA's home to the
telephone of SALVATORE FALCONE and Brothers, 550 BleeSker
Street, Utica, New York. Brothers SALVATORE and JOSEPH FALCONE
were, of course, attendees at ‘instant meeting at BARBARA's home.

It is noted that ANGELO POLIZZI was a Detroit hoodlum
who visited JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. at Apalachin, New York, not
long before POLIZZI's- death in September 1957.

Since the above-mentioned murders occurred nearly
30. years ago, it is seen that.'the period of friendship covered
is extensive.

In, connection with the relationship between BARBARA
and SANTO VOLPE, Albany Confidential Informant T-29, woo has
furnished reliable ‘information in the past, on February 10
1958, made available to SA PATRICK A, MUNLEY

spor TRS thal 0 ‘Lr | ees

63 -WEb-/?/

| NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 4


AL, 62-1152

one)

18

ome)

63-¢4¢2b6-/7

i
| NW 68262 Docld:32332691

Page 5

N


oe ©

AL 62-1152

By memorendum to the Director May 9, 1958,
in instant case, the Pittsburgh Division forwarded copies of
a memorandum detailing comments made by an attorney in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Confidential Informant Albany T-32,;
in respect. to instant meeting, +32 was interviewed after he had
indicated a desire to discuss the meeting with a Bureau
representative. Pittsbu coimented that T-32 is a politically
prominent are and a somewhat controversial one since : ei
unconfirmed rumors have linked him with racket figures over
a considerable number of years. The rumors h never been
substantiated, ‘according to Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh noted
that T-32 was very close to Mayor DAVID L. LAWRENCE. of i
Pittsburgh who is a likely successor to the governorship of
Pennsylvania tn the néxt election.

. It should be nted that T-32 gave the impression
to interviewing agents that he felt there might be some
possibility JOSEPH FI DO could be infiue to talk about
instant meeting as his attitude was far 1é than that
of CIVELLA and his: position on citizen 10us. T=32
stated that hé feels that FILA:
of the group. rather than a m
Ital nt would fare better in attemp :
interview PILARDO, Both FILARDO and CIVELLA are mentioned
specifically below by T-32. - :

[432 was interviewed on May 6, 1958, by Special
Agents DAMON W, PITCHER and JOHN S, PORTELLA, He said that
after the meeting of the noodiums at Apalachin, New York,

he was t eally contacted by NICK CIVELLA and an
elderly owns @ bake shon in Kansas City (be

to be JO }. They requested him to represent them
pefore the Federal Grand Jury and State Grand Jury in New

York City, T-32"said he told the hoodlums he was unable

to represent them directly, but would look out for their
interests ad would arrange for them to obtain counsel

in New York, which he did, T-32 did not identify the counsel
he obtained for CIVELLA and FILARDO,

_T+32 met the two hoodlums in New York City the night
before their hearing before the Federal Grand Jury and, although
he had an eight o'clock apointment, they kept him waiting
until 12:15 A.M. When they appeared they refused to say anything
to the attorneys. whom T-32 had arranged to represent them. They
said. that they had conferred with some unnamed persons while en
route to New York City and had been told to say nothing, and that

24

F

: NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 6



AL 62-1152

they did not require the services of an attorney; however,
they did decide to retain the counsel selected by T32 for
their appearances the following day. 5

ke

The informant related that the elderly ba
was naturalized about 13 years ago and was. extrem
$5 his citizenship and of being deported,
ecording to T~32, and had never even been
by police b ve, 1-32 said he was unable tc speak
very well and was scaréd to death,

T-32 said that FILARDO gave the impression he would
have talked to the attorneys except that CIVELLO counseled
him frequently against saying aaything, CIVELLO told
TH32 that he would not and could not admit to him that he had
been present at the captioned meeting and his story.was that
he had been im the area to visit a girl friend who was. married
and whom he did not care to involv C said that he
would be unable.to admit to.the Grand Jury that it was raining
outside even if it was at the time he appeared before them,

[+32 said that the two hocdlums and the attorneys
conferred. for 2bout an hour and a half before the hoodlums
appeared before the Grand Jury and the attorneys briefed
the hoodiums on what questions they could refuse to answer
and “invoke the Fifth Amendment. As es of possible questions
which they might be asked were reviewed with them and CIVELEO.,
would frequently state, with respect to those directed to the’
baker, “he can't answér- that." - 2:stated the review was *
conducted in a reception room outside the room ve the Grand
Jury was sitting.

T-32 said that numerous witnesses who had been
subpoenaed to appear and who had been in-attendance at the
captioned meeting were present and absolutely refused to
talk to one another and acted like strangers,

“P-32) related that he had no knowledge of the
subject matter discussed at instant meeting at Apalachin,
but related that from hi experience and various contacts
he was of tts.o: on in the late-20's or early 30's 4
national or ion was. formed.for the purpose of controlling
illegal ‘ac s. This organization had a national council
and local “overlord' who would communicate with each other
by courier not trusting mail or telephone contacts, He stated
he believed that JOE BIANCO was a courier. in the Pittsburgh
district. (It is noted that BIANCO was convicted in about 1951
for Interstate Transportation of Lottery Tickets. He was
arrested at that time after getting off an airplane with a

25

Docld:32332691 Page 7



— ‘ome je ©

ba

f£L 62-1152

T-32 said that after talking to both CIVELLO and

d observing CIVELLO's attitude toward answering

any questions about the Apaiachin meeting he had formulated
‘the opinion that the meeting was for an illegal purpose
and-that those who attended hav been warned that they! are

not to discuss its purpose with anyone under any circumstances,
T-32 stated that.he feels that the reorganization which he
believed to be the purpose of the meeting was not effected
because of the investigative attention the local, state and
federal agencies have been ving the meeting.

FILARDO -

By airtel May 13,'1958, Philadelphia advised. that
Confidential Informant T-33, who is widely acquainted in
the Ital underworld in Philadelphia and is probably one

‘of the best persons in that area to develop information

concerning captioned meeting had been contacted on April 15,
29 and on May 7, 1958, but was unable to furnish any -additiona}
information concerning any other meeting.

Philadelphia reported that at the time T-33 was

reactivated and econtaeted on January 20, 1958, he pointed
out that the doubts of many concerning the existence, of
a. mafia should now be settled in view of the publicity
concerning the. meeting of hoodlums at Apalachin on November 14,
1957. T-33 said that he felt that the proof’ of the meeting,

gether with the identity of the persons there and the amount
of mneady cash on their person should be a concrete example
of the power held by the mafia. The informant advised that
from his contacts in South Philadelphia, he had learned: that
this was a meeting of the bosses and under-bosses, but he
did not know the purpose of the meeting-other than that
there was some indication of discussion of business which
concerned ALBERT ANASTASIA, :

anization™

T-33 has referred to the mafia as the "org!
and he insists that the "organization". is the present day
mafia, “In nts. description of the organization, its memoership
and activities, according to Philadelphia, he has. always
stated that to be a member one must bé an Itaitan, either from
the Old Country or a d ct déendent thereof and must be
sponsored by a member of. the Organization. He has pointed out

that by far the majority of the members of the organization
originate either om Sicily or from the Province of Cal s
near the top of the boot in Italy Informant is from Cal LETS,

and is an alien. He said there are a few individuals who are
believed by him to be active with the organization whom he
believes originated from.Napoli, Italy.

27

| NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 8


OD | oD

AL 62-1152 : PAM:PAC

The following investigation was conducted by Special
Agents PATRICK A, MUNLEY and JAMES °C, MEE.on 4/28 and 5/1; 2/58:

confidential Informant Albany T- 34 whose peliability
is unknown at. the’ present time due to the fact that there have
been only 2 few cdntacts made with him, advised that he nas been
associated with JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. since March of 1955, and has
had access to the estate and home of JOSEPH Gel since that
times

He advised when he first became acquainted with Mr,
BARBARA it was the usual routine for BARBARA to leave his
home aboyt.6 AM,in the morning to go to the Canada Dry Bottling
Company plant ab Endicott, New York, and that he would return
home around 3 PM for. his meal and then would return to the plant
and return home later in the evening. He usually drave himself
to and from the plant and.on his business trips around the
Binghamton, New York area.

He stated that the home of JOSEPH BARBARA was always
well supplied with food and drink. He related that in the
basement of the ‘home canned goods, sotp, soft drink, ice cream,
fish and other items are maintained in ice ‘cream coolers, and that
also in a separate section of the basement are foodgsuch as
oranges, grapefruit and other fruits. He stated there was nothing
‘unusual about the basement, no vaults or safes or any, locked rooms
maintained there. He related that in the garage BARBARA maintains

ie a walk-in meat cooler, an ice cream freezer and a shelf- ~type
freezer wherein meats and vegetables are stored,

He stated that there is only one phone line into the
home of BARBARA, but there are connections from BARBARA's home
to the summer house and also to the two other homes that are
m&intained on’.the BARBARA estate, He related the phone connections
between the main home and the.summer house and the two houses on
the estate are-strictly house to house phones and not connected
with the main telephone line.

. He said when he first was in the emQloy of BARBARA bi
noticed that an Italbn couple named LUCILLE (Last Name tnkenown)
and JOE (Last Name Unknown) visited the BA RAs frequantly during
the years 1955-1956. - He believed LUCILLE. was a nurse and JOE
worked in a. furniture store in Endicott, New York, He said he
also noticed that EMANUEL ZICARI visited BARBARA regularly.: He

: said that-from.what he observed ZICARI and BARBARA were old friends

" and frequently ZICART brought his wife with him,

\ 31 -

: NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 9


AL 62-1152

e © 6 ©)

FALINO was a frequent

Vy
Moe
He stated that from his reallection since 1955 there
ave been three what he would call. big parties held at the home
of JOSEPH BARBARA. He stated that in the Fall of 1955 a large
group of men was at BARBARA's home, He related that this group
numbered about 35° men; that in-the Summer of 1957 there was | |
another large group of people, both men and women and this party
was considered an engagement party for BARBARA's daughter
ANGELA. The next large group that he recalls was on November. 14,
1957.

He also advised that RUSE:
visitor at BARBARA's home.

‘ He related when each of these groups wag at
BARBARA's home they appeared to be regular barbeques
where people were walking around the estate and steaks were
being cooked and other food was being served to the guests.

i: At no other time he said that he noticed any large
gathering in BARBARA's home or onvthe estate. He said that on
numerous occasions BARBARA hed visitors at his home during the
day at which time they would have lunch and visit and then leave
the estate, He said these luncheons never included more than
three of four individuals.

In connection, with the November 14, 1957, group he
pelated he had no ‘advance notice that such 4 large group was
going: to be at BARBARAs.. He said that on November 13, 1957, .
Mr. BARBARA.told. him in the early morning hours that there was
an order of meat at Armour and Company in Binghamton, New Yous
to be picked up and that:he could.pick it up anytime Curing that
day. . He said that this was the usuel thing for him because he
has been doing the same. thing since 1955, and had picked up .
vegetables and fruit.ah the Green Lantern, groceries from MeTighe
Groceries and other items at different stores at Endicott and
Binghamton, New York,

He said that. it was his job to see that the fireplaces
at the summer house always had charcoal ‘and.wood and -it was his
recollection that Mr, BARBARA asked him on the thirteenth whether

“or not there was enough charcoal and noes at the fireplaces but.

he is not. sure of that.

Caen

=
t

NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 10


OO © o O

“AL 62-1152

He relates. that he recalls’ no activity at the
BARBARA home on the:night of the thirteenth of November, but
that in the morning of November 14 around 9:30 to 10:00 AM
he noticed a few cars and a few people at the BARBARA home
and that thereafter individuals were gradually appearing on the

estate, He said all of the visitors were men and there were no

‘woen visitors on that particular day.

He stated on the morning ofNovember'14 the only
strange car that was on the estate was a black Cadillac Sedan,
but that he did not know the license plate as to whether
it was from New York State or any other state,

He said that he did not pay any particular attention
to the people that were there on that date and-did.not know that
the New York State Police were checking the guests at BARBARA's
howe until about 7. or 7:30 PM in the evening wnen he went to the
Canada Dry Bottling Company to secure some parts to fix a pump
in one of the houses on the estate. He said he went to the
Canada. Dry Bottling Company ‘and could-not locate JOSEPH BARBARA,
JR. and then went to O'Brien's Heating and Plumbing at Endicott
to obtain a part there, and on his return to the estate was
stopped by the New York State Police at which time they asked
him.to identify himself and asked him what business he ‘had at
BARBARA's estate,

He stated that during the day of November 14 he
did not notice any unusual activities such as any of the guests
going into. the woods or leaving the estate.

‘On the morning of November 15,.1957, he said that he
saw a pink Lincoln and a dark colored sedan in BARBARA's. garage, . -
but he did not observe.any strangers at the house that day. He
related that he was;not in BARBARA's home until November 17,
at which time he did not notice any strangers at the home.

“SHS statea that he nds gathered. no ideas from anyone
‘4n the BARBARA family or. anyone at BARBARA's home as to the reason
for the gathering there November 14, 1957.

He stated that he observed that ANTHONY FRANK GUARNIERI
was at the BARBARA home early tn the morning of November 14, 1957;
and he believes that he observed JOSEPH CAPALACES at one of the
fireplaces that morning, -He said he is not sure of this
identification.

t=

i NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 11



eo © eo ©
AL 62-1152

“He related that Mr. BARBARA, SR, did not leave
the estate that morning, but that JOSEPH BARBARA, JR, left
the estate with the BARBARA Cadillac...and came: back with it
about 9 or 9:30 AM and then drove away again in one of the other
BARBARA. cars, |.He related-he did not see JOSEPH BARBARA, JR.
return with the car and did not know whether anyone was in
it, but did see him driving away with one of the other cars.

He was shown @ group of photographs of. individuals
believed to be at ‘BARBARA's on November 14, 1957, but’ stated
that he was unable to identify any others other than the ones
he mentioned above, :becatse he did not pay particular attention
to the individuals and had spent most of. his time that day working
on & pump that was out. of order at the home that he rwsides in
on the estate.

..He advised that during. the year 1957 Mr. BARBARA
had been 111 and did not follow his usual routine of going to
work daily, He stated that in the Summer of 1957 he periodically
went to the Canada Dry Bottling plant for a few hours a day and
spent most of his time on the estate, He said that during the
year he had gone to New York City, Buffalo and New Jersey for
several days at a time, but. generally he was accompanied by his
doctor, a a

Since November 14, 1957, he related that BARBARA, SR.
has not left the estate and there haw been very few callers
at BARBARA's home, He related that EMANUEL ZICARI is a regular
caller and has generally been coming to see the BARBARAs on
Friday evenings around 5 or 6 PM, usually staying for one hour
and then leaving. He related that during the past few months
there have been, several luncheons held at the BARBARA home at
‘which lawyers f'rom-the Endicott and Binghamton aree have been
in attendance, He related that he believes that during the year
1957 Mr. BARBARA had more individual callers visiting at his
home than in -the years 1955 and 1956,

ft He stated that he sees BARBARA generally daily and
that at the present time BARBARA does not look good to him and
has “indicated. to him that he does. not feel too good, ‘He stated
that Doctor BORELLI generally visits Mr, BARBARA every Sunday,

Mt = 3u

: NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 12


AL 62-1152

: ‘The report of New York State Commissioner ARTHUR L.

REUTER mentioned previously in this report, reflects. that the

above meat was ordered on November 5, 1957. Confidential

Informant T-34, mentioned previously herein, advised that ee
he personally picked up the order and delivered it to BARBARAs

“on November 13, 1957.

Dr. LOUIS BORELLI, 106 Murrey Street, Binghamton, New
York, advised SA MUNLEY confidentially on Merch 6, 1958, that he
has been acquainted with JOSEPH BARBARA, SR., and his family for
about. four or five years and that he has hac BARBARA, SR., as
a patient for the past year.and during that time. he has seen
him many times at his home and at the charles S. Wilson Memorial
Hospital, Johnson City, New York,

| He related that BARBARA, SR., has a very bad heart

condition and that he believes that an operation performed on
him, in. early-part of 1957 has been responsible for his living
out the year. .He said that he is very bad right now and any : :
excitement would cause him grave trouble and may even kill him. H
He said that ‘he has been under orders not to work and not to
engage in any activity at all for the past year, ©ut ‘that he has
not been following these orders as strictly as he would like him
to doy —

a He said that in all his trips to BARBARA, SR.'s ‘home,
he never noticed anything that would indicate that BARBARA, SR,
‘was engaged in any ‘illegal activity. During the summer, about
the later. part of June or July, BARBARA, SR,, called him to his
home especially to see a Mr. POLIZZI from Detroit, Micnigan,, who
Was Visiting. there, and’ when he, BORELLI, checked him, he found
he was suffering from a bad..heart and gallstones, BORELLI stated
he told him he better return-to his home and his own doctor
because he was in bad shape and could not survive an operation
which would be necessary because of the gallstone condition
he had at the time: *

He stated that oh:another occasion he went. to
BARBARA's home. to sée a son of DAVE .OSTICCO from Pittson, -
. Pennsylvania, who was also visiting BARBARA, and this boy-had
been turned down by the Army because of a poor heart, but that
he examined him and found that he was in good health and certified
that the boy was in good health so thdt he could enlist in the
Army.

- 51 -

| NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 13


AL 62-1152

He stated that Suites 1505, 1506,. and 1507 were
was known that / ug

OYLE utilized thay lt

Ss

CARBO and DOYL
hoods of the New York of

alias of JAMES PLUMERI, are top
ce.

BUFALINO is a Philadelphia top hoodlum,

Confidential Informant. T-38, who resides at the
Forrest Hotel, advised in 1953, that the D & H TV Company
had offices. on the second floor of the Forrest Hotel and was
frequented by EDDIE COCO and other well-dressed Italian-looking
gangsters including ANTHONY CORRALLO, with alias TONY DUCKS,
and FRANKIE CARBO,

He added names M, GENOVESE and BILLIE BROWN appeared
on the D & H door,

CORRALLO is a top hood of the New-York Office.
BROWN is a matchmaker for Madison Square Garden, New York City,
and EDDIE COCO is now serving a life sentence in Florida State
Prison for murder. : H

On January 29, 1958, and February 14,. 1958, T-38
advised SA EDWARD F, DE ROSA that the D & H TV is out of
business. He stated he knows of no meetings having been held
at the Forrest Hotel by any’hoodlums. He also stated he knows
of no hoodlums who presently used the hotel as a hangout. He
advised. that the last couple: of years he has noticed aw ~
individuals who “appear to be hoodlums" hanging around the
hotel and added.that the hotel is now under new management.

On Marchi 12, 1958, MABEL DOWNEY, Switchboard Op erator,
Forrest Hotel, advised SA VICTOR CARRELLI- that the management |
of that hotel has changed ‘completely in.March,-1957, and she is
he only employee remaining. . She stated that many. publicized
racketcers formerly frequented that hotel, but. no longer do”
since the management policy changed and no longer.caters to
the hoodlums. She stated she knows of no meetings having been
held at that hotel by hoodlums in the past.

* - 84 =

a J
i N

' NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 14


AL 62-1152
En Route Companions “Companions
Yia En Route Return Via = Returning
LOMPARDOZZI 2. REUTSR!s report reflects that
(Continued): when stopped by State Police road-

block, LOMBARDOZZI was in automo-
bile with OLA, RIGCOBONO and
FRANK CUCCHIARA of Boston,

5 is noted EVOLA iy
. RICCOSONO, and drove up
: from New York City a this would
appear to be the best idtchattchd
available, :

4, REUTERIs report reflects that at
the Del Motel on 11/12/57 were
CHARLES S, CHERI and JOSEPH RICCO-
BONO, EVOLA was at @ Carlton
Hotel as set out above,

ANTONIO * Automobile JOHN Automobile JOHN MONTANA
MAGADDINO of JOHN MONTANA
(Buffalo) MONTANA

i S assumed they _
returned in the same fashion in
waich they arrived, It 1s not known
whether MONEANA returned directly to
,Butfalo or not,

STEVE Automobile(?) JAMES y, Unknown Unknown
MACGADDINO LA DUCA(?) :
(Buffalo)

1, See Above under JAMES V, LA DUCA
for supporting data.

JOSEPH Automobile JOSEPH ~ Automobile JOSEPH PROFACL

-MA.CLIOCCO PROFACL
(New York)

105 (93 -¢%0-/71

rc

\ NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 15


&
'

" NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 16

AL 62-1152

what was the purpose-of the’ meeting at JOSEPH BARBARA's Apalachin
estate. He said the only thing he obtained in. his conversations
was that the "Big Men" were meeting, The informant added that by
"Big Men" was probably meant JOSEPH BARBARA, SR.» JOHN C, MONTANA,
and others. The informant said he could not find out exactly why
they had been at BARBARA's, ~

Confidential Informant Albany T-28, mentioned previously
herein, advised.SA'S MUNLEY.and JAMES C, MEE on April 18, 1958,
that JOSEPH BARBARA, SR,, from his observations of the Sicilians
(whem he alleged composed the ‘group meeting), would be about number
3 ov number 4 man in the group’leadership, “The informant. said
that the group which had met at BARBARA's was made up of mostly
"muscle men" and apparently few of the real leaders of the Sicilians.
The informant said he believed that WILLIAM MEDICO of. Pittston, ©
Pennsylvania, should have been at the meeting because he ‘believed
that MEDICO was directly under SANTO VOLPE and was considered a
big man in the Sicilian group, The informant said he thought that
4SUIMMEY" DI BELLA of Pittston, Pennsylvariia, and another individual
whom he identified as "SLUGGER" of Pittston, were probably. at the
meeting and that 'SLUGGER" had been a chauffeur for SANTO VOLPE and
had' driven him many times to New York City, .

The informant said that from his observations in the
Binghamton-Endicott, New York area ' JOSEPH BARBARA » SR, does not
have any one individual who would. be ‘known as his "righthand man,"
He said that: BARBARA is lcoked upon in:the area by the Sicilians

‘there-as a "king" and may be the-head of the Sicilian group there,
: : /

‘In respect to "SWIMMEY' DI BELLA,..the informant’ said that
from his. own knowledge and personal contact with the Pittston group,
he. would say that "SWIMMEY" DI:BELLA would be the type who would
follow orders to kill someone, Such as ALBERT ANASTASIA, It was
the informant's opinion that ALBERT ANASTASIA was -murdered by - the:
Sicilian ‘group because. he was endeavoring to take control of it.

Confidential Informant Albariy T-36, previously mentioned
herein, advised SA PATRICK A, MUNLEY on April, 21, 1958, that he
had obtained information. concerning instant meeting from conversa-
tiors with. ANTHONY FRANK GUARNIERI, hoodlum whd- attended instant
meeting, The informant said that on questioning GUARNIERI about
the meeting, he ascertained that the "Big Men" at the meeting were
JOHN MONTANA.-(Buffalo); SAVERIO and PASQUALE MONACHINO (Aubura, N.Y}
RUSSELL BUFALINO (Pittston,..Pa,), representing. SANTO VOLPE -of i
Pittston; JOSEPH and SALVATORE FALCONE ‘(Utica, N.¥..)3 VITO GENOVESE
(Newark); ‘and a few others whose names he could not recall, He -
said the rest of the individuals at the meeting were chauffeurs and
bodyguards, Hae :

118

oi at ey nA Ee


—

Oo } e ©

AL 62-1152

previously mentioned herein; Sticeinetly eharacterizes captioned
meeting as follows: "fhe convergence of these men, many

from considerable distances, at Apalachin on November 13 and

il, clearly indicates a planned meeting. Their accommodations
were reserved in advance by the BARBARAS, -their food was’

ordered in advance. The fact that several treveled by airline
unde#.falsc.names indicates that their purposes were secret,”

Confidential Informant Albany T- “1.6 has been
contacted on a number of occasions in respect to instant
meeting and he said that he has talked to EMANUEL ZICARI,
PASQUALE ‘TURRIGIANO and BARTOLO GUCCIA,.all of whom attended
the captioned meeting and in his conversations with these
individuals, T-.6 ‘said, he has been unable to develop any
information indicating the reasons why the group met. He said
that in his conversations with them the best information he
could obtain from them was.the fact that BARBARA, SR. had been
a very sick man for the past year and-that these individuals
were all old friends of BARBARA and were Visiting him because
of that reason. The.informant said that he is now making
efforts. to locate a mutal: friend of the mentioned hoodlums
who attended the meeting who might be able to furnish him with
information obtained from them.

Confidential Informant Albany T-8 has been interviewed
on a number of occasions and he advised that he has. been in
conversation with JOSBPH MARCONI (brother. of LOUIS MARCONI,
associate of Some Apalachin hoodlums particularly ANTHONY F.
GUARNIERI) on several occasions but has been unable to develop
any information from MARCONI regarding the reason for the
meeting. . The informant said he has more or less steered
the conversation to this: particular affair but has been unable
to get any response from MARCONI other than that a group of
Italian friends met to have a big affair; meaning, eating,
drinking. and gaabling. The informant will continue his efforts
to ascertain the reason for the meeting.

Confidential Informant ilbany T-52 advised that
over 20 or 25 years ago the subject, JOSEPH BARBARA, SR., was
known to Have been an associate-of SANTO VOLPE, West Pittston,
Pennsylvania. -52-related that VOLPE-and others in the :
Pittston arca were associated in-coal.mining activities. He
stated that’ all the Italians who are known today as hoodlims,
engaged _in gambling and other activities, mostly originate
from the Pittston, Pennsylvania area and that SANTO VOLPE was
considered the boss of all the Italians in the area.

-131-

" NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 17


© ©

AL 62-1152 : :

By airtel May 8, 1958, the Newark Office informed the Bureau that
Lieutenant JOHN HUNT (NA) of the New Jersey State Police hed told SA's MARTIN J.
GASS and OLIN Es JESSUP on May ©; 1958, that a source had informed him that
ANGELO BRUNO of Phils@elphia, Pennsylvania, then residing in Miemi, Florida,
was in the process of selling all his holdings in Philadelphia and allegedly is
getting ready to move in on, the gambling in Cuba.

The. same source elso stated, according. to Lieutenant HUNT, that the

Apalachin me @ had been called for the purpose of each member contributing
$10,000 to a fund which was to be used in- backing FIDEL CASTRO (Cuban Rebel
Leader) in his attempt to take over the control of Cuba. in return for t!
support, they would obtain the concesSion forgambling in Cuba. In addition
some of the money was allegedly to te used in Caracas, Venezuela, to set up
gambling establishments. Lieutenant HUNT pointed out further that Attorney
ANGELO MALANDRA of Camden, New Jersey, who represents "the mob" and who was also
the Deputy Mayor of Camden until recently, had taken a trip to South America
about a year azo.and was alleged ‘to have gone there to see about obtaining
concessions for gawbling.:

Confidential Informant T-36, previously mentioned, informed on
April 21, 1958, that ANTHONY F. GUARNIERI, hoodlum who attended instant meeting,
during. conversations has told him that captioned meeting included as-one-of
the matters discussed "Havana gambling" since LOUIS SANTOS from Cuba was there
for only a short time and was in BARBARA'S home talking to the “bi men." “The
infornent said thet he did not get any information on the "big men” because
GUARNIERI said he did not know who was.in there and there wére so wany around
the place that everybody was moving around in and out of the house and he did
not know mGANTOS was actually telking to at the time he was there.

6. ot

{T-36 also said that on another occasion when he telked to GUARNIERI,
GUARNIERI told him that the money wen in the group et Apalachin had been
aubling (horse rooms, bookrwaking, dice games, etc.) where they
have put the money into small operations of other individuals and built up the
operations with their connections. He said they would take a smsll "bookie"
and give him financiel hecking and then “throw their business" to him from
other sections of the country. He said GUARNIERI told him that if the small
bookie did not cooperate, then the money men would cut out his facilities ’for _
getting results and bla ist bim with the group; or, according to GUARNIGRI,.
if they were in e gambling room operation and did not cooperate with the money
men when the money men became. interested in them, they would make it saan ble
for the gambling room operation so that it would be forced out of business by
frequent arrests orlack of business. :

The informant commented that GUARNIERI has been a lottery ticke
operator in-the past but has not been in this racket since 1948 and that
GUARNIERI is a small-time gambler and could not do any big-time gambling because
he does not have enything. The informant said he has been trying. to make a
living at the dress manufacturing business but hds not been too successful at

- 148 -

. NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 18



e. © eo

AL 62-1152 : ’
that operation either. (The informant. meant GUARNIERI had been trying to make
a living at the dress manufacturing business.)

In connection with the lottery, attention is directed to the
interview of AMEDEO BERSANI of Syracuse, New Yors, previously set out in this
report. BERSANI advised the agent that he thought the Apalachin weeting hed
been held in regard to lotteries. BERSANI also stated that VITO GENOVESE, who
was in attendance, was the outstanding lottery organizer and operator in the
United States today and the Apalachin group needed him because of his know-how
and ability to make connections, although 4 né is not a Sicilian.”

By airtel February 26, 1958, Dallas advised the Bureau that
Confidential Informant T-59 had informed that he has known the CIVELLO family
all of his life and went to school with CHARLES CIVELLO, brother of JOSEPH
FRANCIS CIVELLO, who attended instant meeting.

The informant said that he was aware of the "setup" in regard to
JOSEPH CIVELLO'S visit to Apalachin, New York. He said that CIVELLO was invited
to attend but was reluctant to furnish details of the invitation. :

The informant indicated that "they" wanted.to know from CIVELLO
the’ present political setup in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and whether Dallas
would be good for certain organized. activity at this time such as gambling
devices, headquarters for a narcotics route to the east or other interests.

CIVELLO stated, according to informant, thet Dallas had never had.
an organized syndicate and never would have one. According to the inforwant,
CIVEL’:> further pointed out to the group that there weresmall-time gaublers
and other hoodlurs on individual ante who had operated in the past but they
never had any nationel connection. y letter dated May 5, 1958, Dallas advised
that this informant has been unable ecicienay any further information
concerning this watter.

On May 12, 1958, Confidential Informant T-60 advised SA PATRICK A. ‘
MUNLEY that he was in Buffalo, New York, when the Apalachin meeting took place
on November 14; 1957, and when the information appeared in the newspapers, all
the heedlums in Buffalo discussed it to some extent at the various. bars there. :
Thé informant said that from all the conversation he heerd, no one had
information concerning the reason for the meeting. The presumption by all was ~ |
thet it had to do with the rackets, gambling, narcotics and illegal alcohol.
‘The informant mentioned that another group of people who knew the individuals
in the Buffalo area who had attended the meeting. ves surprised thdt these
individuals were associated with the group at Apalachin because the Buffalo
individuals had such good reputations and were in legitimate businesses at Buffalo
and vicinity. He said one of the individuals was closing his bar and restaurant
because of the publicity of the Apalacninmeeting. The informant said he did
not know the name-of this individual but thought it was CARLISI, (ROY CARLISI
‘ of Buffalo is a bar owner.)

- 149 -

NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 19


AL 62-1152

8. Raiging*Punds tol Int uence Officials

On Apri}.22;.1958, Confidential Informant T-62, considered “in the

“past-a major “hoow ‘particular connections with vootlegging:and gambling
and now “Leet timate," advised in connection with captioned meeting-that he had
no ‘personal inforndtion about - why it was held and had’not receive a
inforration. from anyone who attended it. He said, however,
the purndése of the. neeting was financial. The inform ant sa
only possible e:
type. He said
people from the West Coast; Texas, ete. 4 was that. wine-tee
purpose’ or, in the informant's words, that they~tere "gettin tog

jackpot" to influence legislation or for investuents.

ee
a rund-reising
ther a

It is noted that SANTO TRAFFICANTS, JR. was at the meeting end it would
appear logical that a prime investaent considered was the, Havana gambling
enterprise mentioned previously in instant report. \

In this ‘connection, Confidential Informant 0-63\navised 8 SA EDMUND L. °
MC NAMARA of Boston (as previously reported, page 13, report of SA ARTHUR V.
BART, Marck 5, 1958, Albany) that on the evening of February\9, 1958, SAM

OSENCRANZ, “front” os of Boston top hoodlum sawed CUCCHIARA, %51d him the
cere neetis caused a lot of trouble. OSENCRANZ. alle, zedly said he
understood that the purpose-of the meeting was (ay to discuss the murder of
ALBERT ANASTASIA tena (2) to see ifthe group. could get together. with certain
law enforcencrit officials sn] make a deal whereby they would stop the “importation
of narcotics from Europe and in return would be allowed to run gawbling
enterprises in their, various locations without Nindrance from law enforcement

fficials.

9. ALBERT ANASTASIA Operations

As previously set forth in the report of SA ARTHUR V. HART dated
March 5, 1958, at Albany, a number of sources has advised that the Apalachin
meeting was called for the purbose oF Giscussing what was to done about
ALBERT ANASTASIA'S operations.

By airtel Mey 6, 1958; New York advised that a review reflected that
ALBERT ANASTASIA had the following alleged interests:

1. . Data in respect to ANASTASIA'S apparent attempt to obtain the
gambling ccncession at the Havanese Hilton Hotel. in.Cuba -have previously been
set, forth.

2, ANASTASIA was a powerful boss of the New dd i York
waterfront, according to the Nev York City Anti-Crime Committee. ANASTASIA
had strong control cver the East River piers and the Brooklyn piers with control
of shylocking,numbers, bookmaking and narcotics on these piers.

-1@-

NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 20



F

e 3 one

AL 62-1152
at the meeting were interested in.

The informant said that he was not personally acquainted with JOSEPH
FRANCIS CIVELLO of Dallas, Texas, who attended the meeting, but was acquainted
with T-67 froti Delles who he. thought would be acquainted with CIVELLO and
would certainly be in a position to know individuals in Dallas who would know
CIVELLG and who could, in his opin on,- obtain from CIVELLO the reason ite
attended the Apalachin meeting.

Confidential Informant T-36 advised on May 9, 1958, that he had had
one co.tact with ANTHONY F, GUARNIERI since last interviewed. He said he asked
GUARNILRI what was going on at the meeting and GUARNIERI told him that the
"money-men" were "figuring things out." The informant said that GUARNIERI
had given him similer information in the past. He said that GUARNIERI then
explained that from the conference of the “money men" some one or two of the
Group are told that they are going to be set up in sorie business someplace
where it is thought that ‘the business involved’ would be a gocd business, The
informant asserted thot GUARNIERI said it might be a legitimate business or a
horse room, lottery or other specialty like. that. The informant said he asked
GUARNIERI if anything was decided on the day of the meeting and GUARNIERI told
him that he did not know but thought it broke up too fast for any decision to
be made. '

Confidential Informant T-28 advised SA PATRICK A, MUNIEY and sa
JAMES C. MEE on’ May 1, 1958, that SALVATORE ALECCIA, friend of ANTHONY F.
GUARNIERT, who attended. instant meeting, told him on the night of April 29,. 1958,
that the. meeting was for the purpose of introducing the younger men to the older
men in the group and for dividing-and assigning territory. The informant said
that he.could not get any other information.

12. Illegal Alcohoi

It is noted that a major portion of the hoodlums in attendance at
captioned meeting hee prohibition violations and bootlegging experience in

their tockgrounds, It appears logical that they are curreritly involved in some
instances in illicit alcohol operations.

Confidential. Informant 'T-63, previously. mentioned, for example has
advised .that: SAM ROSENCRANZ, FRANK CUCCHIARA'S "front! man, told him on
Januery 10, 1958, that he had an illicit still apparently operating in Rhode
Island and, without specifically stating, indicated that FRANK CUCCHTARA was the
financial backer in this. still. . i"

By letter dated February 6, 1058, the Buffalo Office advised that
JOHN FOY, NA, New York State Safety Commission, who. conducted an investigation
relating to the.Apalachin meeting for Governor AVERELL HARRIMAN. of New York,
tola. SAC WESLEY G..’GRAPP that his investigation indicated a principal reason
for the meeting was arrangements for obtaining sugar ‘to manufacture illegal
alcohol .without.it being traced. FOY was: reinterviewed by Buffalo and on

- 155 -

NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 21


AL 62-1152

informant said, he. heard. NICK ALAIMO (DOMINICK ALAIMO who attended instant
meeting) and SAMMY DI BELLA, associates. of RUSSELL BUFALINO (who attended
instant me¢ ) Giscussing the purpose of the meeting and they in their
conversations said that this wes the purpose of the meeting.

The informent related that. the only one who told hin directly the
purpose of the meeting was LEONARD BLANDINA but added that on three other
occasions he overheard conversations indicating this was the purpose of the .
meeting He said BLANDINA did not institute or Commence these conversations
but they were conversations by ALAIMO and DI BELLA,

7

The informent said the instant meeting was to include jobbers,
manufacturers, truckers and others who would have only a financial interest
and the meeting was for the purpose of deciding what proportion or what interest
or what phase of the operation each would have when they took control of the
industry. The informant said they intended eventually to put pressure on
buyers to force then to buy garments fron their group. °

The informant stated that SCIANDRA and his associates in the Pittston
area intended to completely dominate the area fron Bingharton, New York, to -
Buffalo, New York, es they had assurance that they would bave garment trucking
rates. from that ares to New York City guarantecd to then. It -was their intention
to use the’ plantof SCIANDRA for cutting and distribution and any garnent.
manufacturer in Northern | ‘York.would be forced to cperate through SCIANDRA'S
plen, according to informant. : eee) :

15. Control of Veiding Machine Business

As previously set out in the report of SA ARTHUR V. HART dated
March 5, 1958, at Albany, page 21, Confidential Informant T-22. advised that
THOMAS ALOYSIUS MARINO, was., a New York top hoollun, said that the
Apalachin. mieting was for the purpose of orgenizing the vendi achine business
throughout the United States. The informant seid he got. the ir pression from
MARINO hat this vould include ‘slot machines as well as juke.boxes and cigarette
machines. MARINO. mentioned. that he and JOmNNY ROBILCTITO controlled this
organizational drive in-Brooklyn, New York.

i, MEETING BROKEN UP BEFORE COMPLETION oF AGENDA

As previously set. forth in Albany airtel to Bureau May 12,.1958,
the New York State Police survéillance of instant necting was set up on the
early afternoon of Novenber 14, 1957, and was detected by persons at BARBARA'S
residence shortly ‘thereafter. - As has previously been-reported in several
instances, persons fled through the woods to escape the roundup and were located
by the police. It is indicated that the meeting was rather rudely and abruptly
terminated when the police activity was detected and it would thus appear that
the meeting had not gone ito its.contemplated conclusion.

* ; - DT

¢ "
:

i NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 22


omen eo &

AL 62-1152
Act 5 (g) (2) (D) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMS

Te: PC Buffalo Division.
T-4 New York Confidential Informant NY 169-C.
PCI RICHARD T, MORRISON, JR., a salesman for

Dry Bottling Coupany or Endicott, Ine., over
10 y year period,

. 7-8 Albany POL JOSEPH CHITTENDEN, Private Detective,,
Binghamton, New York, a

T-16 Buffalo Confidential Informant BU 14-c,

T-19 Detroit Confidential Informant DE 370-C, an individual
on the secondary leadership level of the LICAVOLI-

BOMMARITO-RUBINO Group in Detroit, according to Detroit : |
letter to the Director dated May 16, 1958, : j
T-22 New York Confidential Informant. NY 2151-c,
: : es
T-25 Pittsburgh Confidential Informant Pa 514-c. ~ ee
: j
T-28 Albany PCI. ANTHONY IM, POLICARE., Seacrest New Youle,
operator of Tony's: Inn; Route it. |
T-29 EDWARD VITKUS, Intelligence Unit, U.S, Treasury Department,
Binghamton, New York,

T-30 SAMUEL A, KLUGER, CashieY, :First: National Bank of Wyoming,
Wyoming, Pennsylvani: Lay “

ane

T-31 Miami Informant MM 647 PC, as related in Miamd airvel to :
Albany dated April 17, 1958. t

T-52 CHARLES J CAPUTO, Pittsburgh attorney, who i8 very close
to Mayor LAWRENCE of. Pittsburgh and whom rumor links to
racket figures.,, He is assistant solicitor of the City of |
Pittsburgh and acts in a liaison capacity between Mayor
LAURENCE and the Governor, through contact with Senator
JOSEPH BARR, head of the Democratic Party in Pennsylvania,
CAPUTO's office is 400 Bakewell Building, Pittsburgh, Pa,

~167-

Se -

¢

© NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 23



AL 62-1152
T+33 Philadelphia Confidential Informant PH 251-C, as set out '
: in Philadelphia airtel dated May 13, 1958,

T-34 Albany PCI MELVIN J, BLOSSOM, an employee on the estate
of Top Hoodlum JOSEPH BARBARA, SR, Employed since March,
1955.

T-3& JOHN PERHACH, Investigator, District Attorney's Office,
Broome County, Binghamton, New York, who furnished a list:
of all local telephone. calls from the home of- JOSEPH
BARBARA, SR.,. for a period of a year, :

T-36 Albany PCL LOUIS. DIMBRO, Binghamton, New York. ~ 7

T-37 FRED LUSSEN, Inspector, Manhattan West Detectives, New
York City Police Department, is

ge T-38 New York PCI EDDIE BORDEN, a resident of the Forrest Hotel,
New York City, as quoted’ in New York: airtel to the
Director dated March 13, 1958,

T-39 PCI FRANK SMITH, Buffalo Division, as set out on Page 3,
Buffalo letter to Albany dated April 11, 1958.

-f i a

T-40 Deputy Inspector GREEN, Manhattan West Detective Division,
New York City Police Department. i

T-41 Detective JOHN J, O'FLAHERTY, New York City Police Department.

T-42 Kansas City PCI MARY FRICK,

T-43° Lieutenant JOHN THOMPSON, Central Intelligence Squad,

i New York City: Police Department, who informed SA STEPHEN L,
HALPIN, January 29, 1958, as. set out in New York letter to
Albany dated April. 2, 1958,

T-4, ROBERT MC GUINESS, New York State Joint Legislative -

Committee on Government: Operations (Watchdog Committee),

217 Broadway, New York City; who.furnished information to
SA WILLIAM. DAVID KANE, March 10, 1958, as in New York airtel
to Albany cated May 14, 1958. .

-168-

} NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 24

Bbreacereisteeee ttc


S6 oO

AL 621152

THA5,

THH6
TH47
T-48
T-49
7-50
T-51
T-52

Lieutenant JOSEPH SUAREZ, 25th Precinct, Detective Squad,
New York City Police Department, who furnished
information to SA HUGH G. FORD, February 15, 1958,

Albany PCI FELIX ANTHONY. JULIAN, Binghamton, New York,
Albany Confidential Informant AL 2937-C.

Albany, PCI LOUIS J, FARONE,

Albany PCI JOHN CAVACCHI.

Albany PCI TOM DE LORENZE.

Albany PCI WILLIAM C, MORRISON. |

MARTIN HOLLERAN, Coal Dealer, Binghamton, New York, who
has furnished reliable information in.‘the past,

Unidentified source in Potter Bank and Trust Company,

_ Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as set out in Pittsburgh

airtel to ‘Albany dated April 16, 1958.
FBI representative (Legat, Havan:.).

Miami Confidential Informant MM 416-C, ds set out in
report of SA STEPHEN J, LABADIE dated February 20, 1958,
Miami, entitled "SANTO -TRAFFICANTE, JR,, AR."

JULIO ‘HERNANDEZ, Sales Manager, Hotel Nacional, Havana,
Cuba, as quoted in report of SA LABADIE, above.

PCI PEDRO P, TAPIA, Racing Director, Oriental ‘Park
Race Track, Havana, Cuba, as in the-above report of
SA LABADIE,

Former SA GEORGE MC SWAIN, as in Bureau letter to Legat,
Havanas dated March 5, 1958, captioned "AMERICAN |
GAMBLING: ACTIVITIES IN CUBA,"

Dallas PCI FRANK EDWARD LOBIANCO, as in Dallas airtel
February 26, 1958.

-169- ‘i

_ NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 25


AL 62-1152

T-60

T-61

T-62

T-63
T-64
71-65
i 2-66

r T-67

JOHN FORMATO, formerly pimp, gambler and racket. operator
in Binghamton, New York area, who has been working |
legitimately near Buffalo, New York, for the past five

years. : JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Boston PC as set out in report of SA
EDMUND L, MCNAMARA, May 5, 1958., Boston,

Albany Confidential Informant AL 2990-C, a leading
gambling operator in Saratoga Springs, New York, and
former well Inown bootlegger and owner at one time or
another of three of the ‘most prominent gambling

casinos in Saratoga Springs when Saratoga Springs was
"open" and. considered-in the’ past to be a major hoodlum
although now "Tegitimate,."

Boston Confidéntial Informant BOS 692-C.

Albany Confidential Informant AL 2841-c,

Kansas City Confidential Informant KC 254-c.
ANTHONY FERTITTA, as described in Houston airtel to

Director dated May 29, 1958, captioned "TOP HOODLUM
PROGRAM + WEEKLY SUMMARY,"

Philadelphia PCI JAMES VINCENT DE ANGELIS, as set out in

Philadelphia airtel to the Director dated. March 28, 1958,

captioned " TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM, WEEKLY SUMMARY,"

-170-

| NW 68262 Docld:32332691 Page 26
