# docid-32332896

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10194

HQ

92-2940-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/14/1958

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

eleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Diate: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332896 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI,

DATE:

1/14/58

FROM

Pittsburgh (92-226)

SUBJECT:

SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA, waS.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Re SAC Letter 57-70, 12/13/57

PC 573-C, a small time numbers runner who is well

acquainted in the East Liberty Section of Pittsburgh, Pa.,

and who is acquainted with PHIL and MICHAEL GENOVESE, the

pa 5 the Last ith ti

BELLINI brothers, and others, through these sources comes into

possession of information regarding LA ROCCA's interests,

associates and

travel.

Former PG 509-C, who 1s now in Florida, through

his gambling interests and travels, can develop information

regarding LA ROCCA's associates and travel, and upon PG 509-9

to Pittsburgh, current information of this type can

expected from him.

PCI RUDY SOKOL, a gambler and businessman who selle

jewelry, electrical appliances, etc,

tO LA ROCCA,

through

this contact obtains current information regarding LA ROCCA

his associates and their whereabouts.

Former PCI CHESTER STUPAK, a big-time Pittsburgh

gambler, through the gambling grapevine obtains information

regarding LA ROCCA and it is expected that StUPAK will be

re-activated in order to insure coverage on LA ROCCA.

PHELLIP SCASSERA, an ex

for any and all information

Other sources being developed are

JFK Law 11(a)

who

gave information regarding LA ROCCA to the Internal Revenue

Service, and JOSEPH REGINA, (RAGNO) of Johnstown, Pa., who gave

information regarding LA ROCCA tO INS.

92-2940=5

2 BEES

Pittsburgh

JSP: AAP

(4)

gA JAN 1€ 1958

RECORDED-24

EX. - 131

6% JAN 87 195₴

NW 68262 Docld:32332896 Page 2

---

