# docid-32331356

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10302

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2989-55

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

hosassination Flecords Collection Act ol

1992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:Nw

54570 Date: 12-14-7022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/09/1960

PAGES:

62

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331356 Page 1

45

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-591

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

CHARLES

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TOURINE aka

DATE

12/19/60

REPORT MADE BY

PAUL G. DURKIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/10 - 12/1/60

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

ram

REFERENCES:

NY airtels

to Miami, 10/26; 11/1/60.

My letters to Miami, 10/27, 20/60.

Miami airtel to NY, 11/7/60.

Salt Lake City airtel to NY, 11/8/60.

washington Field letter to Miami and NY, 11/8/60.

NY airtel to Chicago, 11/14/60.

NY teletype to Bureau, 11/7/60.

-₽-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 10/17/60, PCI PRISCILLA HOUSTON advised

SA JAMES P. FLYNN that she had dinner with CHARLES WHITE

and his brother JOHN WHITE at Patsy's Restaurant

Italian Restaurant, 236 west Soth St., Nyc) on 10/3/00.3

APPROVED

COPIES MADE 3 Bureau (92-2989)

2- Baltimore

2- Boston (92-195)

Chicago

2- Cincinnati

2-

LOs Angeles

2- Miami (92-106)

2- Newark

2- Philadelphia

Agency

2- New York (92-851)

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

1ec 4910

62 JAN 1 F1961@6pt,25

NW 64578 Docld:32331356 Page 2

PECIAL AGENI

N CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2989-

155

REC- 71

EX-106

DEC 22 1960

COVER PAGE -

A

---

## Page 3

NY 92-851

She advised that she answered the telephone at her apartment

when CHARLES WHITE called to invite her roommate MAR&LIN

MILLER to dinner and since MARILYN was not present at the

time the subject invited the PCI to dinner.

his brother that in the event Patsy's Restaurant became too

wet-known as a place they frequented they would in the future

frequent La Scala Restaurant, (142 West 54th St., NYC).

The above information is not being included in the

body of the report in order to protect the identity of the

PCI.

[laison has been established with Deputy Chief

Inspector JOHN J: BRADI (NA), Commanding Officer of the

Criminal Intelligence Bureau, NYCPD.

The next time that

the subject visits NYC Inspector BRADT expects to obtain

confidential coverage of TOURINE, his associates and activities.

The results of all information received will be furnished

to the NYO. Further all background information on out-of-

town subscribers to telephone numbers called by TOURINE while

recently in NYC will be furnished to Inspector BRADT.

A copy of this report is being furnished to the

Salt Lake City Office and WFO because in the past TOURINE

has Visited Las Vegas, Nevada and also he is reportedly an

associate of JOSEPH FRANCTS NESLINE of Washington, DC.

In

addition, while TOURINE was in NYC he made telephone calls

to NESLINE's home telephone and to his gambling club.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of

Source

Contacted by

NY T-1

PCI PRISCILLA HOUSTON

SA- JAMES P. FLYNN

- COVER PAGE -

NW 64578 Docld:32331356 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-851

Identity of

Source

NY T-2

NY 3027-C*

NY T-3

PCI SAUL GOODMAN

NY I-4

NY 2924-C*

NY T-5

WF 1069-c

NY I-6

CSWF 28

LEADS:

Contacted by

SA FRANK W. CORNETT

SA WILLIAM C. CARROLL

SA WILFRED BERGERON

It is requested that all offices conduct background

investigation. of telephone subscribers in an expeditious

manner inasmuch as the Criminal Intelligence Bureau of the

NYCPD also has an interest in this natter.

ground information Witf"be obtained will be furnished to

ni hot on

Further back-

Deputy Chief. Inspector JOHN BRADT.

BALTIMORE

At Baltimore, Maryland

Will conduct appropriate background investigation

on the subscriber to telephone number BRowning 5-3558.

JIMMY

DINO called this number on 10/8, 14/60, from Room 1610, Javoy

Hilton Hotel, NYC.

- COVER PAGE -

NW 64578 Docld:32331356 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-

NY 92-851

NEW YOPK

HOUSTON.

At New York, New York

1. Will maintain contact with PCI PRISCILLA

2. Will maintain Liaison with deputy Chief

3. Will conduct background checks on selected

subscribers to telephone numbers called by subject and DINO

while they were recent guests at NYC hotels.

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

A highly confidential source on 10/12/60,

advised SA JOHN E.

SHEDD that the car DINO was driving

did not contain $100,000.

Also a highly confidential

source on the same date advised SA ROGER L. KAAS that the

$100,000 was not in Room 1610 at the Savoy Hilton Hotel

on 10/12/60.

- COVER

PAGE -

F

NW 64578 Docld:32331356 Page 5

---

