# docid-32330816

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90093-10022

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-2799-17

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/08/1958

5

JOSEPH JOHN PECORARO

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32330816 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

Reporting Office

NEW

ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

JOSEPH JOHN

STROPSIX

Orleans.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

NEW ORLEANS

PECORARO, aka

Date

12/8/58

Investigative Period

10/7-11/28/58

Report made by

I. M. SHEARER, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEER ING

Typed By:

Imy

REFERENCES

Report of SA ERNEST M. SMITH dated 9/29/58, at Now

New Orleans letter to Bureau, 11/28/58.

LEADS

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA:

Will maintain contact with PCI RAYMOND I. ROLLING,

CI NO 1075-0m

and CI NO 1126-C for any information concerning

the activities of the subject.

Will condüct periodic nighttime surveillance of subjec

to determine any new associations.

Approved

- hu2

•Z-Bureau (92-2799)

a 2-New Orleans

(92-46)

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

12-2119-

17

25 DEC 10 1958

COPIES DESTROYED

90.8

MA: 18 1/2

Child Let

2/15/38

6 5DEC 2919!

4710

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1988 0-344750

NW 64578 Docld:32330816 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO (92-46)

INFORMANTS

PCI RAYMOND L. ROLLING, contacted on 10/13,

27/58 and 11/10/58 advised that he frequents the lown

and Country Restaurant on the basis of three or four

times per week at night.

He stated that he frequent-

1y observes PECORARO at

(top hoodlums).

exertion of pressure on local gamblers by PECORARC

at this time.

CI NO 1075-0 advised on 10/14/58 that PHILIP

ARENA, locally charged with peddling narcotics, said

he was unable to obtain any assistance Irom PECORARO

in making bond.

Informant advised that ARENA said

his bond was posted by JUNIOR KERNER of Gretna, La.,

that KERNER possesses oil lands in Louisiana, and

was formerly connected with professional gambling

operations

in the New Orleans area.

CI NO 1126-0 on 11/17/58 advised SA RAY

E. ROCKHOLD that concerning the operation of the

Chesterfield Club, gambling house in Jefferson

Parish,

the dice game at the club was operated until

about

a month ago by dissa shormaker, wealthy gambler

from Memphis, Tenn.

MAKER said he pulled out of the Chesterfield Club

as he

had made

a substantial roll while there and

because he did not want to cause any "family strife".

Informant stated that SHOEMAKER did not elaborate on

the term

"family strife"

Informant further stated

that if SHOEMAKER did have any trouble with JOE

PECORARO, or anyone else, he would not reveal any

such occurrence

to even his closest friends. In-

formant said that his previously reported conversa-

tion with PECORARO was considered an effort by

PECORARO to bring pressure upon him to keep him

from operating dice games at the Chesterfield Club.

Informant advised that this effort by PECORARO had

nothing to do with informant not operating at the

Chesterfield Club

but rather informant found a

better spot in which to operate at Baton Rouge, La.

-&-

Cover Page

NW 64578 Docld:32330816 Page 3

---

