JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10216-10471
RECORD SERIES: HQ ~
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-22ND NR 96
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/09/1961
PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
: SMO, FISUR, RES, ASSOC, ARREST, PERSONAL HISTORY,
BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, B/F INT, TRA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : :

1 the John
fissassination Records Collection Act off

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Caset:NW
8 0

v9.1

52

NW 68262 Docld:32296195 Page 1


aah

PG 924236
PG 92-228
Poe ADMINISTRATIVE

On. Apral $5<1961, SA HAROLD L. WILLIAMS, Pittsburgh Sound-Trained
Agent;and SA. THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III surveilled the cottage of
GABRIEL MANNARINO located. on 01d Leechburg. Road, R. D, No. 35

_ Leechburg;, Pa., with a view toward ascertaining the feasibility

of a technical installation. All construction appeared to be :
complete and nobody was observed in the neighborhood, Because of
the: rural lo¢ation, terrain, limited service facilities and
proximity of neighbors friendly toward MANNARINO, it was apparent
that such an installation would have numerous technical, mechanical
and security problems and would be very difficult. Special Agents
handling these matters will continue to be alert for possibiaities
for technical coverage for this and othér logical locations.”

Te spot: fisur. on GABRIEL MANNARINO'sS Surfside, Florida, nouse
on Mareh 14; 19615 was conducted hy BA Cy GRAHAM HURST, :

The spot’ fisurs'at MANNARINO's Surfside, Florida, house: on
April 7, 1961;° and. April..19,..1961,. were ‘conducted by SA ROBERT K,

“ihe. spot f£isurs at GABRIEL MANNARINO's, cottage near Leechbure, Pa.,

on Mareh.23; 1961, and April 19, 1961;. were conducted by SA FORSYTH.
The pretext interview on May 2; 1961,..with LEB KUHNS, caretaker —
at MANNARINO's cottage,(was. conducted by SAs PAUL D. O'BRIEN and
ROBERT EMMET GRANT, who. pretended to be advertising ‘company
photographers. The samé SAs observed GABRIEL MANNARINO at the
Bonfire. Restaurant, Leechburg, on May 2, 1961.

"INFORMANTS
PG symbol numbérs: will ‘eontime to be thé: Samé,.'where applicable;
as were used. in preceding reports, — :
PO TL is PO.612-¢°
PG T-2 1s Po 615-0 -

PO T-3 18 PCI HERBERT LEE RAY; Leechburg, Pa., who furnished
information to SA FORSYTH.

jo Bow
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32296195 Page 2


ieee

%

PG 92-236
Pa 922088

(Informants’ continued)

PG T-4. is CRESSON O.. DAVIS, Chief; Intelligence Division,
IRS; Pittsburg) i

PG 79 is FRANCES ILLIG, Personnel Manager, ALCOA, New Kensington,
Pas (protect per remiest) who furnished information to SA FORSYTH,

re T-10 is PG 581-C \
Pa ‘J-11 18 PG 557-C

PG M12 46 PCT JIM KELLY, akay, New Kensington, who furnished
information to SA FORSYTH: ‘ fe

PG 7-13 1s: PG 621-¢

PG. T-14 48 PCT RONALD NOBLE, who furnished information to
SA ROBERT EMMET GRANT,,

PG “115 is PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, IRs» Pittsburgh, who
furnished, information to: SA FORSYTH and SAW, B, ANDERSON, JR»

PG 2-16 is PCI JOSEPH GEORGE. New Kenbineton, who furnished
information to. SA PAUL By O'BRIEN,

PG %-17 18‘ T; P.. DERDOCK: Security orth
Corporation Plant, East’ Pittsburghs,
who furnished information; to ‘SA

‘Westinghouse Electric
Confidential Source)

rg

 MMT-2 18 former, MM 660=¢:

MMT-3. 18, MM 509~C

| NW 68262 Docld:32296195 Page 3
