ennedy Assassination
ecards Collection Act of 1992]

asett:NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10445
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 9

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers

Reason for Board Action: The text 1s redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10060-10445

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE

12/01/76
PAGES : 10

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
HOWARTH, THOMAS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

ii on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

thereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Thomas Howarth December 1, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
Veal
JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D) Appointment
20) Salory Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Cl Title Change
Cl Termination (At close of business on effective date}
Assassinations D Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_____________--_-__------------ )
‘Specily Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

fudget Officer $41,200

* if emoloyee is a civil service annuttant (includes US House of Representatives), the gross onnual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—C] Clerical or (1 Professional.

2. Et Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 493 _of 2522congress.
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number_______.______.. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify thot this authorization -1s not in violation of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. “ fs

Decemb:

Date_

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the. Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:. =
eb howme

tration

Office of Finance use only:

URevaed Aegis 11977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

[FF 68261 Docid:32239453 Page 3 ‘



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FF“¥ x
(Pleote Use Typewriter “U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES . (Any erasures, corrections, or changes:

On this form must be initiated by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, DC 20515 authorizing official ) “

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action.

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date |
Thomas Howarth December 1, 1978 |
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

JFK Act 5 (g}(2)(D CO Appointment i
Ud  Solary Adjustment i
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Ci Title Change :

C Termination (At close of business on effective date) 4

Assassinations C1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending} =

close of business__. -)

j

(if type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) 4
{ Position Title Gross Annual Salary* i
$43,509.00 i

* If emoloyee 1s a civil service annuitant (includes U S House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee i

plus the salary received from the employing office i

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below) : i
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1) Professional. :

2. @ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res@36._ off SEN Congress, >

3. O Joint Committee. :

- (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) ‘|

Position Number_______---_____. If applicable, Level_______. Step______.

| certify that this authorization 1s not in violation of 5 US.C 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of -
relatives. :

December 11

Date,

sgnoture of Authoring.

- HOUIS STOKE!

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Jomt Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:._

= Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only
Office Code.

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FO"M

(Please Use Typewriter Sx“ * U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES\+ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be iitialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date i
Thomas Howarth November 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
——1
Tear ans O Appointment
é O Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee £3 Title Change
\ O Termination {At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations C. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending i
close of business. q
. Speak Dae j
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) j
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* !
ieputy Staff Director & Budget Officer i
* If emoloyee 1s a civil service annurtant (includes U S House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown snould include the annuity received by the employee 3
plus the salary received from the employing office i
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below) qe
2
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. :
a
: 3. D Joint Committee. i a
(If.Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below ) Hite
Position Number_______---_-__. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______. : y
| certify that this authorization 1s not in violation of 5 U.S.C 3110{b), prohibiting-the employment of 4
relatives id q
Hovamber 13 :
1
q
{iF appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minenty Member) = Type pr prunt nome of Authorizing Official 7
Cha Trhaat : H
eeiveeciieeeenitnnay (Type or print name ond tile of above offic) SS SSS”S*S*S*S*S*S*S*S*S”Sie Member Dict ond Sted) SSS
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- i
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Jomt Committees, must 4 \
be approved by the Committee on House Adminstration : 3 \
: \
APPROVED:__ 7 |
4
Office of Finance use only: ffs iteeeeteesassstcceeteteazss teectteitasereeetat 4
i
Office Code.______-.- Benefits .-.---_--------------- j
Payroll sce 4
\ fewed Ags 97)
ee : Copy for Inrtiating Office or Committee ;



iS 68261 Docid:32239453 Page 6

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, DC 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official )

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

Thomas Howarth 8/1/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action :
UFK Act 5 (a) (2)(D) (1 Appointment

iSalory Adjustment

(J Termination {At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action 1s an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information )

Position Title

| Gross Annual Salary

Budget Officer

38,500

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. © Standing Committee. Staff-|

2.

Fe]

3. Joint Committee.

{if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__

relatives.

Date.___ August 2

- All appointments and salary-adjustments for employees under the House. Classification Act and for-Committee emo" “+

Special or Select Committee. Authority—H Res.

_If applicable, Level_

Clerical or [_] Professional

» | certify that this authorization 1s not in violation of 5 USC. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

(Signature of Authorizing Offical)

LOUIS STOKES

Type or print nome of Authorizing Offical)

RHAIRMAN

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee: on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the-Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

]
4
|
j
j



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, DC 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

Thereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official )

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) |

Effective Date

Thomas Howarth 8/29/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

JPK Act 5 (g) (2)(D arate
: Employing Office or Committee &) Sclory Adjustment
Assassinations

(J Termination {At close of business on effective date)

Lo. citie meter, steee'latdtadcibate wisectshain nual

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information )

Position Title

_ Gross Annual Salary

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number_ _|f applicable, Level.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 L
relatives

‘Signature

Louis Stokes

Chairman

«All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classi

be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED:.

ployees, except those of the Gommittee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must ~

$30,000
(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
:
1
1. [1 Standing Committee. Staff] Clerical or £1] Professional.
2 Ci Special or Select Committee Authority-H Res 4! Congress.
3 [J Joint Committee.

of Authorizing Olficel)

ation Act and for Committee em-

Administration

Office of Finance use only
Office Code.

Committee
x

| : : Copy for Initiating Office or

[e 68261 Docid:32239453 Page 7

“~~



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

{Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, DC 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) iii Effective Date
Thomas Howarth 4/77
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D} 1D Appointment

Employing Office or Committee OisSclary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date]

- Assassinations

(IF type of action 1s an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information )

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$47,500

{If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1 (J Standing Committee. Staff-[] Clerical or [7] Professional

2. FY Special or Select Committee Authority—H. Res __

Congress

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_. .|f applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 shee _310(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Léa Stokes
Type or prot same of Authoring Offi)

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on: Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED.

‘Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 8 ete



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM peresttecer . 1
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ~ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes . 7

‘on this form must be initialed by the FT
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, DC 20515 authorizing official )

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action |
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) } Effective Date
Thomas Howarth 21-77
Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action
JFK Act 5 (g)(2) (D)

1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee 7 GhSolary Adjustment |

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Committee on Assassinations

(If type of action 1s an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information ) 4
Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$18,450.
i

IF Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee. Staff-[] Clerical or [] Professional fae
2. [4 Special or Select Committee Authonty-H Res! of ___* congress 4
3. [J Joint Committee ;

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) : i ~

Position Number.

if applicable, Level _ Step.

| certify that this authorization is, not in violation of 5 USC .3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Sigroiyre of Authoring Official)

Henry B. Gonzalez

Chairman

‘Type o print nome of Avihoraing Official)

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the-House Classification Act and for Committee em-
+ ployees, except those of-the Committee.on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint*Commuittees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration - eisecietia

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committ

Office of Finance use only
Office Code,___

aif for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 9


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
~ or Ballpoint Pen)

‘To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action.

\/ U.S. HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, DC 20515

* (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
~~ on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official )

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Thomas Howarth

\

Wu

Employee ‘Social Security Number 5

Type of Action

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D ‘ - oF
Ld

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

‘E] Salary Adjustment -

Select Committee on Assassinations

4
C1 Terminction (At close of business on effective date)

{If type of action 1s an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information )

“Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

Clerical or

1 C1 Standing Committee. Staff

2 Special or Select Committee. Authority-H Res

3. J Joint Committee

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number... If applicable, Level_

be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED

Professional.

pbiusbeies Congress

Step_.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives

(Gigncture of Authoring Ofheel)

Henry B. Sonzalay

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

Office of Finance use only:
J Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office

or Committee

i 68261 Docid:32239453 Page 10

aa



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM as
1 (Please Use Typewriter \_, U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES .__* (Any.erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington;-D C* 20515 : oo ag offroad hd initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action.

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Thomas Howarth : Fasi/76
5 Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
JEK Act 5 (c :

200 MH] Appointment 7

Employing Office or Committee C) Salary ‘Adjust

a 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select fownittes_on Assassinations

(If type of action.is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information )

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Budget Officer 330,900

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

; 1 Standing Committee Staff—[] Clerical or [] Professional.

3 [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below) +

Position Number_________-_____. If applicable, Level_______. Step.

1 certify that this: authorization 1s not- in ‘violation,of 5 USC 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives FE

Date, December 7 (1975
Sgnoivre of Authoring Offical

Bowning, Chairs
(Type or print name of Authorizing

vittee on Assassi

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under-the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
~ ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committeeon the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration

APPROVED

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

-Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 11 : ae



C iS

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current’
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law |
mother niece sister-inlaw H
son husband stepfather |
“daughter wife stepmother

brother father-in-law stepbrother

sister mother-in-law stepsister

uncle son-in-law half-brother j
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister j
first cousin |

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related

Iam related by the following relationship

— Ausatl,

Signature of Employee

weary AS AI77

NW 68261 Docld:32239453 Page 12 . fee

oe
