| Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10464 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS Records Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 9

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

| Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

| reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
| privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

}
Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32239472 Page 1



Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10464

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE
PAGES

12/01/76
10

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
LAWSON, BELFORD III

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32239472 Page 2



w

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FOR

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

: ; e ons, or change
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 aera Se initiated by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Belford L. Lawson III Decumber 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

= 0 Appointment

© Salary Adjustment

- Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations C1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Pr

ition Title Gross Annual Salary*

$27,100.09

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or 01 Professional.

8 ”
2. 4] Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res” 6 of 95 tR Congress.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

.|f applicable, Level_

|! certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date. December 11 1978

‘Signature of Authorizing Official)

ad LQUES STOKES

{Type oF print nome of

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $. 00 as of

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

W 68261
locid:32239472 Page 3

wy



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter 4 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(_) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
~ or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515” seihoriiog offense uated by the
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
| hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~ Effective Date
Belford L. Lawsoa III 12/33/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action |
: 1 Appointment j
O Salary Adjustment ;
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee i Title Change i
‘&) Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.
S re a
2. Et Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 2 of 2 A Congress.
3. D Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________--_-__ If applicable, Level... Step_______. |
4
| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives.
January 2 73 j
Date. Ls Wo. i
j
All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- at
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must |
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.
APPROVED:.. _ =
airman, Committee on House Administration i
Office of Finance use only: : ID |
Office Code... i
4
Payroll... | . {
on |
4
4

NW 68261 OO _
'| Docld:32239472 Page 4 :



\f

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please. Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES : (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorizieg offtetal.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

"hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Belford 1. Lawson IIf December 1, 1977
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

oF CO Appointment

36) Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

D Termin

ion (At close of business on effective date]
Assassinations © Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
lose of business )

Specify Gate

(If type of action is. an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Staff Counsel $25,790

* If employee is @.ci

service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown:should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the solary rece’

from the employing o

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or G) Professional. ”

2. «Zh Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.’
3. O Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

.If applicable, Level_ Step_.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of .5 U.S.C. 3110(b),
relatives. ee

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those. of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee. on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
ad
Office of Finance use only: ID ___--_-- ae e-------------
Office Code..__.____.. Benefits _____----------------_
Payroll.

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

W 68261 ee
locid:32239472 Page 5 i

ol a a a

?
i

ony



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION.-FORM.. -

(Please Use Typewriter U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections; or changes

F A ‘on. this form must be -initialed. by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

j
“A
4

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~ ; Effective Date
Belford L. Lawson III 8/1/77 _
Employee Social Security Number: Z 2 Type of Action
Employing Office or Committee a Salory Adjustment
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff Counsel 24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item:below.)

1. J Standing Committee: Staff—[(J] Clerical or [5] Professional.

2. (I Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465.

3. (J Joint Committee.

(If Employee ofan Officer. of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___:. If aoe! Level_____2:. Step.

relatives.

August 2 7

(Signe

“YORIS STOKES

All-appointments:and salary adjustments for employee's under ‘the House Classification:Act- and: for Committee sem-~"*

- ployees,-except. those-of tthe. Committee: on* Appropriations; the ‘Committee’ on:the. Budget, and the Joint*Comimittees’:must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. - °

APPROVED:.

Chairman,

mittee on House Administration

Office of Finance use-only:
Office Code.

|| Nw 68261 — 7
Docld:32239472 Page 6 :

wbsinihadimicacticliin tab

wy



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM

(Please Use Typewriter ‘U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES “(Any erasures, corrections; or changes

i ir . on this form must. be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Belford L. Lawson Lil 5/1/77
Employee Social Security Number 5 7 Type of Action
Employing Office or Committee @ Sclory Adjustment
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of dction isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title ; Gross Annual Salary
$20,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. F Standing Committee: Staff-[ Clerical or [J Professional.

E] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. <2" of Se Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_____-- Step,

| certify that this authorization -is not in violation. of 5.U.S.C. ak prohibiting. the..employment” of
relatives. .

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

4 Chairman

All appsintments and salary: adjustments for employee's under the :House Classification Act ‘and for Committee ‘em:
ployees,. except. those ‘of the. Committee on Appropriations; the. Committee”on 'the-Budget, ‘and the Joint eee! must
be approved by the Committee‘on House Administration. . °» +

APPROVED:

1n House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code... P) ol

Docld:32239472 Page 7

Lee a ant OAS ROA Pa INT CMNON TC OMSL Coote SOE CORN T EN INT ORR Nee

]
4
:
4
j
i
;
{
:
|
d
:
i

ay



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

. ; on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following.payrolll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Belford L. Lawson IIT 4/V/77 |
Employee Social Security. Number Type of Action

Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Sclary Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$42,400

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. EF] Standing Committee: Staff—[J Clerical or [J Professional.

2. 9 Special or Select Committee: Congress.

3. F Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level______ Step,

|. certify that this authorization is not in violation -of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. > ae - 2

(Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

if Member, District and State)

ll appointments and:salary adjustments for employees under the-House Classification Act and-for Committee em-
- ployees; except those: of the Committee'on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget; and the Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration:

.APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office: or Committee

|) NW 68261 Fo
Docld:32239472 Page 8

| PRES srt em NSIT SERIE oer

ow



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM. ~~ bo eo
~»«(Please Use Typewriter » + U:S. HOUSE OF-REPRESENTATIVES Any erasures, corrections: Panta {
. i : in this-form must be initial i
| . ‘or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) i
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: 4
| hereby authorize the following payroll action: |
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date e a |
aa Belford L. Lawson, Til 2-1-77 qj
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
(0 Appointment 4
° Employing Office or Committee (@ Solary Adjustment :
Select Committee on Assassinations Ci Termination {At close of business on effective date)
: j
4
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) |
a
Position Title Gross Annual Salary 7 {
; $12,309. |
H
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) |
FT
1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—(J Clerical or {-] Professional. / b
2. [F Special or Select Committee: Authority—H: Res.._ 4
3. (J Joint Committee. j

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) : ae

Position Number____-_-_.___.__.If applicable, Level___-_-__

If applicable, Level

| certify that this: authorization .is..not in violation of 5 U:S.C. .3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of
relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official

Henry B. Gonzalez

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

es. 2 vs; All appointments: and:salary. adjustments.foremployees under the: House: Classification Act and. for.Committee em= +.

ployees, except. those.of the Committee-on Appropriations, the Committee-on- the Budget, and thé:Joint-Committees, must:

be approved. by the:Committee on. House Administration. ~ wee E : 5

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance: use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

|
re
I) NW 68261 : - _
Docld:32239472 Page 9



(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

GPO; 1975 0 = 57-28:

US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D:C. 20515

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

h. Belford V. Lawson, III

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

bey A om foying Office or Committee

Select Com tee on Assasst

Ci’Appointment
H-) Salary Adjustment

[Termination (At close of businéss on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the fllowing information.) ©

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary’. ~

(If Committee Employee, ‘complete appropriate item below.)

1. F1 Standing: Committee? Staff —|

2%) Special or Select Committe: Authority—H. Res..gy:

a Joint ‘Committee.

“(If Employee.of.an Officer of the: Howe. § complete item below)

relatives.

Date: :

Clerical or [] Professional.

(| certify: that this authorization is, not “in: violation of '5-USC. 31}0(b), Prohibiting the, employ

of_. 9g -Congress.

sat iii ccs

| Office of Finance use only:.
* Office ‘Code.

Monthly Annuity $.

| A Oe at Page to Copy for Initiating OFF

iviaiteianudes



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

- (Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington; D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll-action:

on this form
authorizing official.)

; (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
ist be initialed by the

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Belford ¥, Lawson, [11

2/76

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

—

Employing Office or Committee

; Select Comittee on Assassinations

©) Appointment,

O Salary Adjustment ,

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Staff counsel

$29,033

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

‘

R 1. LJ Standing Committee: Staff—[ Clerical or] Professional.

2.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number.

'] Special or Select Committee: Authority=H: Res.

If applicable, Level

| certify. that this authorization is not in violation of 5.U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

pelatiies

Dote._____ Noveirber 9

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

_ Select Committee on Assassinations

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee‘on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code __

NW 68261

'| Docld:32239472 Page 11

ae



)

C S

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

| The following are the relationships to be included in
| the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law | ie
mother niece sister-in-law , \
son husband stepfather | \
daughter wife 5 stepmother. | }

“* brother father-inlaw stepbrother i |
sister mother-in-law stepsister {
uncle son-in-law half-brother | (eo
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |

|

first cousin

form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved

\
I
|

All staff employees are requested to complete this

Richard A. Sprague , |

|

I am not related W (AZ rr i

I am related by the following relationship

1. Lowd.Bn HP Javan 10 1177
Signathre of Employee Dat

NW 68261 no
|| Doctd:32239472 Page 12

