# docid-32328768

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90079-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 162-12-3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992(44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

FARE Date: 12-02-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

NO

HQ

DATE: 05/05/1961

PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

NOLA PRINTING COMPANY

JOSEPH PORETTI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

NW 68486

Docld:32328768 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO 162-1

Printing Company territory.

. (4) Will

review records of Nola Printing

Company's account at the Metairie Bank & Trust Company

to verify current list of employees and identify business

contacts of this company.

(5) Will continue to contact other sources

and informants to develop full scope of Nola Printing

Company operations.

INFORMANTS

T-1 is PCI ALBERT J. PILSBURY JR., Jefferson

Parish handbook operator.

T-2 is J. B. HERNANDEZ, Executive Vice President,

Metairie Savings Bank & Trust Company, New Orleans,

Louisiana.

T-3 is NAURBON PERRY, Intelligence Division,

Treasury Department, New Orleans, Louisiana.

T-4 is U. S. Individual Income Tax Return

for years

1957 and 1958.

T-5 is SAM WEINSTEIN, Central Plant Department,

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, New

Orleans, Louisiana.

T-6 is BERT EIGHER, Manager, Metairie District,

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, New Orleans.

T-T is JACK STAPLES, Postal Inspector, U.S.

Post Office Department, New Orleans, Louisiana.

T-8 is MO 4-C.

T-9 is AARON KOHN, Metropolitan Crime Commission,

New Orleans, Louisiana.

COVER PAGE

B

REVIEWED 3Y

BUJRK TASK FORCE

ON

7.21-98 da

RELEASE IN FURL

L

RELEASE IN PART

NW 68486 DociatE 28S

N! "Page 2

---

