JFK Assassination System Date: 10/2/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

yy
Records Collection Act off

AGENCY: HSCA ssassinal
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10111-10046 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Caset Nw
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 012504
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: BOESCH, GEORGE E.
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 10/05/1978
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
BOESCH, GEORGE E.
CIVIL AIR PANEL
OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, DESCRIPTION
AND...
LEADS AND INFORMATION
NEW ORLEANS, LA
FERRIE, DAVID
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 10/25/1995
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Box #:222.

vO

NW 68261 Docid:32263951 Page 1


KENNEDY

OVasH

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

.. Identifying Information:

Name Mr. George E, Boesch Jr,

Address -.2724 Manley Ave.
City/StateMetairie, La.

Date of Birth _9-2-35
: . ~h 8-68
Social Security 43 5-48-L687

. Physical Deseription:
Height _5'10"
Weight_190
Ethnic Group Caucasian

». Personal History:

a. Present Employment:

pate _ 10-05-78

Place Work:

“Pel ephone 50h-833~-1176

Mor S
Spouse
Children

Brn

Color Eyés Bl Hair

Special Characteristics

New Orleans Fire Denartment

Address 317 Decatur St.

Telephone 504-525-7h24

b. Criminal Record
1. Arrests

2. Convictions

- Additional Personal Information:

a. .Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator Robert Buras

Lawrence Delsa’

Date

Form #4-B

- NW 68261. Docld:32263951_.Page.2_....



KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

pate_10-5-78 ime LLAM

I. | Identifying Information:

Name Mr. George E. Boesch'Jr, telephone 504-833-1176

Address ‘2724 Manley Ave., Metairie, La.

Type of Contact: Telephone
“X Person
Ii. Summary of Contact:

Investigators Robert Buras and Lawrence Delsa_ met Mr. Boesch

at New Orleans Fire Station number seven where he is employed.

Boesch stated that he remembers LEE HARVEY OSWALD a little

and that he knew DAVID FERRIE well. He joined the CAP in

1951 (approx.) from Metairie High School where a few others

“joined but they did not stay long, Boesch was a meber of the

New Orleans Lakefront Squadron that met at the N.O. Lakefpont

Airport. He remembers Ferrie coming there and rising in rank

due to his ability’ and interest in the CAP, Ferrie was a part

of the Drill team that went to National Compétition along with.

Boesch, Boesch stated that he flew with.Ferrie to Cleveland,

Ohio, with George Piazza, and met Ferrie's family. Mother,

brother, and another couple that lived with ‘them. He believes

IIt. Recommended Follow-up (if any):

Get Civil Air Patrol reunion list with names and addresses

of people that where around LHO and Ferrie's time together.

. Signature: Bed
NW 68261. Docld:32263951. Page 3 Lede

«' Form



acl _ + Page two con't interview with Boesch, George Jr.

that Ferries father had died. Boesch was interested in flying
and this brought him in contact with Ferrie, Ferrie had hair
when he first met him, Later ‘he saw Ferrie and Ferrie wasbald
because of some type of accident, Ferrie flew many of the
Cadets around the New Orleans Lakefront, Boesch once flew with
him over a seminary north of Lake Ponchatrain and Ferrie mentioned
- that he was either a priest at one time or that he had studied
for the priesthood, Boesch thought that he might have indicated
that he went to that seminary to stydy. Boesch stated that
Ferrie had his own plane at the time and was doing well. Ferrie
was very intelligent and to Boesch's knowledge he never had any
tendercies towards homosexuality, Boesch was surprised to
learn later from others that Ferrie had drinking parties at
his home and about some of the other things he herad about,
Boesch left the CAP around 56-7 and did not hear of any of the
Cuban issues or Ferrie's troubles with the airlines until
much later. Boesch remembers Ferrie as a decent sort of guy
that was interested in flying and teaching flying to kids.

FERRIE and Boesch went to the MOisant Squadron to help
them get started witth a CAP program. Ferrie did not like the
idea of girls learning anything about flying. He was even
against them being in the CAP, Boesch went to Moisant for
two or three months and remembers seeing LEE HARVEY OSWALD
there. He can remember because there were only 12-15 people
at those meetings as opposed to sometimes 60-80 at Lakefront.
Boesch did _ngt have any social contact with OSWALD but remembers
him as avspe) He remembers others by faces but can not put
names to m because they did not gain the notoriety that
Oswald did, He ean not place Oswald and Ferrie together at any
other place then these meetings.

saw
Boesch last FERRIE when he (Boesch) was driving a public
service bus. Ferrie was handing out leaflets on Canal Bt.

and Elks Place and he waved to Boesch after seeing. him, Boesch
didn't know what the leaflets were about but later saw on
televésion that this group (others unk) was handing out leaf-
lets about Cuba. He can not remember if they were around the
same time as Oswald was arrested,

Boesch stated that he never visisted Ferrie's apartment
on Atherton Drive or on Louisiana Ave. He had no knowledge
of the parties that went on there, He suggested that the
following might be able to help us: James Lewallen, from Dave's
home town, Gene Cheralack (sp)-a radioman whose family owns
Ferncrest Day School.
End of Memo

NW 68261 Docld:32263951 Page 4
