# docid-32288925

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10200-10201

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1ST NR 1159

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HALL, WENDELL W. JR.

TO :.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/20/1967

PAGES:

104

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC AND REL, BUSS, GAMBLING ACT, LCN ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT •

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, INDEX PAGES 88-94, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE I-A

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Get of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68252 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32288925 Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rav. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

EVARISTO CARLOS RICARDO GARCIA VIDAL,

aka

Evaristo Garcia Vidal,

Evaristo Garcia

DATE

FEB 2 0 1967

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/25/66 - 2/6/67

REPORT MADE BY

WENDELL W. HALL, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IGA

TYPED BY

jkj

REFERENCES: Bureau letters to Miami, 11/8 and 12/20/66.

Miami letters to Bureau,

11/25 and 12/12/66.

Miami letter to Detroit, 12/13/66.

Miam1 letter to Newark, 12/13/66.

Miant letter to Jacksonville, 12/13/66.

Miami letter to New York, 12/20/66.

Tanpa airtel to Miami, 1/5 and 1/11/67.

Jacksonville letter to Miami, 1/10/67.

Nowark letter to Miami, 1/16/67.

New York airtel to Miant, 1/17/67.

Tampa lotter to Miami, 1/20/67

Detroit letter to Miami, 1/30/67.

-P-

Case has not been pending over one year.

Prosecution has not bpen pending over six months.

APPROVED

COPIES

Agency

Request Recd.

Date

How

By

I FEB 281967

NW 68262 Docld:32288925 Page 2

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (164-4485) Cine.

(1- 922781) 4 TRAFFICANTE

4 - Miant (162-633)

(1 - 92-88) (TRAFFICANTE)

(1 - 92-1045) (CUBAN BOLITA)

(Copies, COVER PAGE B)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92_2781+

NOT RECORDES*

192 FEB 21 1957

Notations

---

## Page 3

MM 162-633

All of the purchasing is done by an affiliate company,

The Casa Leon Cigar Company of Tampa, Florida, 50 per

cent of the stock of which is owned by GIMELSTEIN.

The following information was obtained from

Dun & Bradstreet, Tampa, Florida, on 12/30/66, by IC

PAUL L. OGGERO:

Casa Leon Cigar Company, Inc.

1607-11 22nd Street, Tampa, Florida

The corporation was chartered in October, 1961,

for the operation of a cigar factory.

The business was

purchased by ELIAS QUINTERO and Mrs. ELIAS QUINTERO as

President and Secretary-Treasurer, respectively. It was

cine stay 19 Vire 0 at 130

purchased from the widow of one PEDRO PEREZ, who operated

the cigar factory from 1959 until his death. ZELICK

GIMELSTEIN is Vice-President. QUINTERO was born in 1921

in Cuba and came to the U.S.

in 1960. He operated a cigar

factory in Cuba prior to coming to the U.S.

For the year

ending June 30, 1965, profit was shown as $3, 250.00.

Wagering Tax Stamp

On 1/3/67, WALTER MC DANIEL, Supervisor,

Section, IRS, Jacksonville, Florida,

advised that his files failed to reflect that EVARISTO

GARCIA VIDAL is a current holder of a Wagering Tax Stamp.

•INFORMANTS

MM T-2 is former MM 997-S.

MM T-3 is CALVIN HASKELL (protect by request),

First National Bank of Miami.

MM T-4 iS RICARDO GONZALEZ ASENJO (protect by

request), Caribbean Travel Agency, Miami.

G

• COVER PAGE •..

NW 68262 Docld:32288925 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 162-633

MM T-5 is MM 840-C.

MM T-6 is MM 883-C.

MM T-7 is MM 1165-C.

MM T-8 iS DOMINGO ECHEMENDIA ESCALANTE, PCI.

MM T-9 is MM 1181-PC.

MM T-1O is HANLETO BATTISTI LORA, PCI.

MM T-11 is MANUEL MENENDEZ ARROYO, PCI.

H*

- COVER

PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32288925 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 162-633

Source stated that he personally knew LAZARO MILIAN

in Cuba and that MiLIAN in about 1960 was employed as pit

boss at the bacarat tables of the Capri Casino in Havana.

Source recently wet MILIAN in Miami, who introduced source

to a young business associate

who MILIAN stated was operating

a dry cleaning business called the Lindsay Cleaners.

On December 8, 1966, MM T-6 advised that EVARISTO

GARCIA VIDAL was openly soliciting bolita bets over the

telephone and has stated that source could call him at any

time.

On December 12, 1966, source

stated that EVARISTO

GARCIA SARMIENTO has personally

stated that he handles all

bolita operations for his father who was currently occupied

in other activities.

On December 13, 1966, MM T-2 stated that the

subject is still frequenting the First National Bank of

Miami on almost a daily basis.

He maintains a "secret

account in the bank with a balance alleged to be over

$500, 000.00.

He is in close contact with an Executive

Vice-President of the bank, JOHN SESSIONS, whom he had

previously met through LEROY P. SIEBERT, JR., who formerly

was the man who personally handled all of the subject's

banking.

SIEBERT was head of the Savings Department

and

because of his drinking' habits had been moved to the

New Business Department of the Bank and later left the

bank's employment and went to a Federal Savings and Loan

Company and later to the Merchants Bank of Miami.

Source stated that the subject was associated with

the NAYOR brothers, ALBERTO and JORGE in jewelry businesses

and that they are also in the dry cleaning business.

Source stated that subject is deeply involved

in the shylock business in Miami

and on a recent $2,000.00

loan demanded a $2,780.00 postdated check to secure this

loan.

One of his associates is

& man nawed (INU) BARQUET,

a local jeweler.

45.

NW 68262 Docld:32288925 Page 5

---

