# docid-34432684

## Page 1

Date : 12/17/97

Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10010-10423

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: XE327404WJE - PAGES 1596 - 1598

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

: COMMANDING OFFICER, DOA DET

TITLE

: MEMO

DATE

: 09/30/60

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS

:SLOBODA, VLADIMIR WALTER

ARMY DESERTER

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B, 3

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 |44 USC: 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 09-22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34432684 Page 1

---

## Page 2

O CONFOENTIA

ARUBA-CO

30 Septamibes 1960

SUBJECT: SLOBODA, Viadimal Walter aks Wiadimis, Sp/s.

RA 10812694, DORn NE XE-327040, DPOB:? JAN 1927

as Podiazalea, Untaine (U)

TO:

Dopastment of the Armay Del

AFO 757,, US TOrReS

1. (C) Rifezanco your mansago walah staton that ve toquested

thes the Bridab accompliah mall cover as latercapa el communleationa

tO SUBJECT A Mile as beothes.

(C) Relerance da mada to laclonad copy of our lettes, 11 Sop

tember 1960, in B830 mbarels ma ankad los considorition ol chect of

communlessions agencies, or say dolicatios of, consenpredence batween

SUBJECT And HIS via, has parento os HIl brothar, We also asked los

any indication ol contact by HIS milo with hostllo agosalon.

TOn yoUr leormaties, the lollowing background and

ramifications

al tha prablain ara pronariod:

(VOs 2 Megan 1960, 8LOBODA denerted RIS millary unit

and defected to Sorlet controlled area. A complalas type lavertigition

of SLOBODA was dultlasad.

ba

SLOBODA lalI bablad HIS ville and three minor ebildren.

HIs wile and eno eblid are Ballins nationals. Irs ol HIS elidren are

US estimean,. The smo letter eblidren (Hales I. Sloboda, Ayo 1, and

ViEtos E, Slobode, Ago d) aro valtorablo to balay tranapasted lato

(GROUP 3

Downgraded at 12 goat

intervals; not

aufomatically declai

1596

CONFIDEN

Exh than

NW 64954* Doclä:34432684 Page 2

4°

---

## Page 3

NEIDENTI

ARUM-CO

30 optembas 1960

SUBJECT:

SLOBODA, Vladimir Waltor aka Wladimir, Bp/S,

RA 10812694, DOBs NS XE-827040, DPOB: T Jan 1927

al Podkamies, Utralso (Ul)

Sover dominated asan since communications from SLOBODA tO HIS Vilo

JOlloct that it in HIS IstAntIOn to have HIS Vile Join HIM. As laco do 16

Septezabes 1960, HI attempted to contact her by phone from Moscan.

Although monoman el SLOBODA's wile and children tato Sovlet urda

would not be of spacial interert in the complaint typo investigation of

SUBJECI, l would appear to bo o1 totarant to the Goverament of the

United Sintas to be ablo to pracludo movement ol the tro minos. US

citinens inso dovies controllad area. Kaowledge ol communicationa

between Man, Globoda and SUBJECT would enslat la caldag action deemed

appropelato.

collara, slobade concealed the followns browledgo partent

to His delections

'Xaowledgo of H1S Localion, As 0810 hoUrs, 4 Aug 1960,

ahe told one soUzCo HE WAs in BrEllA. HIS defACilos All nor become alle-

lally knoTra unHl 6 Aug 1960, prior to that time. HE tas considezed A WOl.

(2) Roomlodge of HIS route uned la delectins. Prios to our

roparato dotermination (mithout has cooperation), sha loser ties His cas val

locased at the KOLLN alspart.

(3)'sao concealad the lact that HE had sost her 60 DM from

the KOELN airport on 2 Aug 60.

(a'"She concealed the fact that HI hed made telephone calle

to her from Berlin.

(a'"Bne concealed the fact that HI dens her 2000 DM from

Berlin,

SUBJECI anyhaso, Pértiannt information meo golued from Mrs, Slobeda,

not through her cooperatios, but through exploiting information which she

landrestantly les alip or which was obtaload througa other investigation.

CROUP 3

Doraginde: at 12 yoop

interial; not

1597

PONTIDENTIAR

Aw. 64354 Dold: 34432684. Page 3

---

## Page 4

OINTIDE

AEUM-CO

30 Septembar 1960

SUBJECT: SLOBODA, Vladimir Welter ake Wladimiz, Sp/3,

RA 10812676, DORS NE XE-327010, DPOX: T JAS 1927

al Podkanion, Ukraine (U)

8. On HIS statement of personal history, SLOBODA llated

that Ht, had bean amployed with the NRVD la Last Germany from May 1945 e

SO JURO 1946. HOWEVEZ, tANTA ASO AtTORE LadicatiOna iDAs BUBJECT MAR 1A

close proxtinity of Kasnel, OFP, durlas that pastod along with His broleos.

Michaol. Both apparently more involved in quantionable operations, prob-

ably blackmaskating or anuggiing ta violnity of Kansel.

6, Thare aro indications of a compounications system from

SUBJICT to His parente or other pereone ln the Borted floc, BUBJECT'O

brokbos, Michael, In Englara, appearo fo lavo bera unad la tie ayatara,

1. TE) In ordar to natioly roquiremento ol ACSI, DA, our inventi-

galite allort has beas diracted toward resolvias the talloming sallent pointe:

a. Identity and locatton of closa islanda os contacte (eupocially

foreiga sationals).

b, Indleastonn of disallection on 11I5 part.

6. Comoundcationa sent 0s recolved and communicatione ayateme

uned (with apacial emphanta on communestions with persons mistin the soviet

Bloc)e

do HIS route and contacte uned in delectise.

•. HIs motivatos for defecting.

1. Compilelly of HIB Wile, His brother and Iadours Lapaid, wbo

was implicatad to as unisona dogres la the dalaction.

8. Indicationa of contact mith honesta latelligenico.

ào Intoxiastlos 1s HIS pose

salon that to subjaci to compromise.

do His political idealogy,

3. I Brities anoiatance was requented to telp ranoiro parte ol

the EEl dué to the follontas seanazas

1598

Dong dat et 1227a1

that as 78t

as wine dachali

49

COITIDENTIAL

NW. 64954 Docid:34132684 Page 4°

---

