AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Date 12/10/97
Page 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CSF/INSCOM
194-10006-10316
DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

: AC640653W-PAGE 52

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

USA
[ RESTRICTED

: AGENT REPORT

02/04/72
1
KAMINSKI, HANS D
REPORT OF FINDINGS

[ RESTRICTED ]

COUNTER- INTELLIGENCE INTEREST
THE DORTMUND POLICE

REMARKS

AGENT'S NOTES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED
3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

NW 64954 Docld:34530610 Page 1


AGENT REPORT

For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED

‘3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

“4. REPORT OF FINDINGS:

uw)

cs On 1 February 1972, Stephen R. Wilson, SP4 EX Act 9 (9) 2) (2) Clerk,
C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC842),), Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty
concerning an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and stated
substantially the following:

WN

About two or three weeks ago, Source was approached by a man
who identified himself only as John in the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln.
John refused to mention his last name, but Source knew that he had been
the Disc Jockey at the Western, a bar in Datteln, and was now the Disc
Jockey at the Lord Nelson, another bar in Datteln. Source had only a
brief conversation with John, but was asked for the name of the Security
Sergeant at the unit. John then told Source to tell Pimentel that he was
back in town. Source described John as follows:

Height: Six feet to Six feet one inch tall
Weight: 180-190 pounds

Hair: Brown

Dress: Wore furry coat and boots
Distinguishing marks: None

Source had not met John before although he had seen him at the Lord Nelson,
and has not had contact with John since. Source did not answer questions
posed by John that pertained to military affairs,

)' REMARKS: Source felt the reason John was interested in Pimentel
probably had something to do with drugs. Pimentel was known to smoke hashish
and marijuana. The Dortmund Police, Dortmund (169308), FRG, were interested
in Pimentel as a drug pusher. Dortmund Police had been to the unit two or
three times to talk to Pimentel about drugs and had searched his house and
car. Pimentel had hid car impounded shortly before he left the unit in
regards to refusing to pay the one thousand German Marks deductible on an
automobile accident he had, The case was still pending. Pimentel was
married and had four children, all residing with him in Datteln, but had
German girlfriends in the area. ‘Source could provide no further information
about Pimentel.

7 sca AGENT'S NOTE Pimentel referred to by Source above was Cristobal
Pimentel4Davilla, SP6i< *ct_5 i971 o) formerly assigned to C Team, Pimentel-
Davilla left the unit on 20 January 1972 for assignment at Fort Eustis,
Virginia.

4
8
3
Q
a
5
3
3
a
ay
=
2
xc

‘5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
HEINZ EB. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

DA Vs 34D xcs wos

NW 64954 Docld:34530610 Page 2

