# docid-32294315

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10213-10091

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-417

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN I.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/04/1962

'PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC AND REL, BKG, TRA, GENERAL ACT, RECORDS,

TOLL CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

+.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#N'W

58262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

2.. Will report results of discreet inquiry

on such persons to establish what, if any,

connection they may have with subject.

TAMPA OFFICE

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

1.. Will maintain contacts with informants and

sources of information.

2. Will continue to attempt further coverage

of subject, relatives and associates through

confidential Bureau techniques.

3. Will report results of contact with Firgt

National Bank of Tampa regarding loan due

November 27, 1961.

Will report results of investigation which

has been requested conducted at St. Petersburg

(Pinellas County) Airport and Orlando, Florida

Airports.

5. Will report results of interview of

EUGENE KEANE by the Albany Office when same

accomplished.

6. Will report results of fisur of subject

January 4, 1961, and continue to ascertain his

whereabouts when he travels back to Miami.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Efforts were made to contact TP 41-C on the

night of December 26, 1961, but due to about

forty customers at his place of business, having

no relief, an appointment was made for December

27, 1961•

On December 27, 1961, TP 41-C advised SA LABADIE

he would if humanly possible, go to subject's

home or the Columbia Restaurant and make inquiry

of him on the pretext that the note SANTO had

previously signed on at the Central Bank of Tampa

-C

"Cover Page"

92-2781-417

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

was overdue, that it could not be paid by

source, and inquire if SANTO could again

a note::

Source was advised if his missionign on

was successful to make every effort to join

subject's enterprise in Miami.

Information from records of The General

Telephone Company of Florida, Tampa, Florida,

as reported by SA EARL M. PETERSEN

were furnished

on December 15, 1961, by DANIEL J. O'CONNOR and

ROBERT BELL, Commercial Managers, General

Telephone Company of Florida.

By communication received in the Tampa Office,

December 19, 1961, the Bureau approved a mall

cover on subject

residence, 2505 Bristol Ave.,

until January 14, 1962. Accordingly, a letter

was directed to CHARLES M. GRIFFITH, U. S

Postal Inspector, Tampa.

At 3:55 PM, December 26, 1961, SA JOHN ROUSE

telephonically contacted telephone 876-2207;

unlisted telephone at subject's residence,

2505 Bristol Ave., Tampa, and identified himself

to a female voice that he was Mr. CARTER of

Insurance Company of North America and that he

was still making efforts to locate SANTO

TRAFFICANTE as a witness to an accident according

to his records.

The female voice stated that

she had

spoken with her father about such an

accident when he recently came home and he knew

nothing about it.

She was advised that Mr. CARTER

desired to speak with SANTO about it and the

daughter stated that he could call the residence

any time he desired but that her father was not

then at home. She further stated

that she did

not know when he would be home and that she did

not know if he would be home for dinner on the

night of December 26, 1961.

In view of the above, Mr. SAM MENSH, 2404

Bristol Ave., was contacted and advised SA

IRWIN FRANK DAVIS on December 26, 1961, that his

available

home was not available for a fixed

surveillance

as had been in the past in view of the fact that

his children were home from college, that the

family had numerous holiday visitors, and the

children had no control over their college

friend contacts that may visit them.

"Cover Page"

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP. 92-1

In view of the above, Mr. HERBERT GOLDBURG,

Assistant

state attorney, who lives immediately

adjacent to subject's residence, who had offered

the facilities of his home in the past for any

possible use by the FBI, was contacted and

advised SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE On December 26,

1961, that his mother and mother-in-law were

holiday guests in his home which would preclude

the use of a bedroom inhis home which had easy

view of subject's front residence, garage and

activities.

He further advised that he had

numerous lawyers who were visiting him over the

holidays, as well as perhaps local judges.

In view of the above, a mobile surveillance of

subject residence was established on a twenty-

four hour basis. This fisur was conducted by

SA'S RICHARD E. HEON, EDWARD MABEY, JOHN CALVIN

DARST, FRANCIS X. O BRIEN, THOMAS S. LOVERING,

JOSEPH BLAKE, JOHN ERWIN and E. M. PETERSEN.

The logs submitted by the above Agents fails

to reflect that subject was seen to enter or

leave 2505 Bristol Ave. Based on information

subject had left Christmas day and subject not

seen for two days,

the figur was discontinued

10:00 PM, December 28, 1961.

Fisur of

subject was instituted January 3, 1962,

upon subject being at the Columbia Restaurant,

by SA'S OBRIEN, LABADIE, JOHN D. MEDAGLIA,

WILLIAM C. HAY and JOHN W. ROUSE.

INFORMANTS

TP T-1, 1s TP 8-C whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-2, Is SV 263-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-3, 1s PETER S. CIMINO, part owner of Eagle Drug Store,

N. Howard at Main St.,

West Tampa, which it is

known subject's family frequently patronize.

TP T-4, 1s CS TP 51-C whose identity is known to the Bureau

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORGE

-E-

"Cover Page

ON

• RELEASE XU FULL

• RELZASE IN RART

I TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

TP T-5, is EDGAR ADAIR, Special Agent, Intelligence Unit,

IRS, Tampa.

TP. T-6, 1s Dr. ANTHONY P. PERZIA, MD, Citizens Bldg.,

Tampa, PCI who is known to be subject's

eye doctor.

TP I-T, 18 MARIO CESAR CAPAZ, PCI who is only waiter at

Columbia Restaurant assigned on a daily basis

to a certain room which is dally frequented by

subject's associates.

IP T-8, is TP 22-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T-9, is GEORGE ANKERMAN, PCI.

TP T-10, 15 FRANK J: FALSONE, SR., PCI.

TP T-l1, 1s CS TP 51-C who is further being protected

because of valuable information being furnished.

- TP T-12; 15 CS TP 51-C to further conceal.

-F*-

"Cover Page"

REVIEWED BY FATUFK TASK FORGE

ON

7.22.980at

O RELEASE IN FULL

& RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

Subject's close associate STEFANO RANDAZZO has

listed telephone Plaza 4-1912.

Inquiry in the Lincoln Road area of Miami Beach,

Florida,

indicates that SYLVIA CORSETRY at 1020 Lincoln

Road, ceased to do business one year ago.

On December 1, 1961, BOB GARDNER who has pre-

viously been contacted in this matter, a cheéf bell hop

of the Di Lido Hotel, Lincoln Road and Collins Ave.,

Miami Beach, advised

that on November 14, 1961; the

Di Lido Hotel sent out circulars to all previous guests of

the hotel. GARDNER checked the registration cards for

deletes of

1960-1961

and advised that this hotel had no registration

cards for that period for TRAFFICANTE.

GARdEr advised tha

TRAFFICANTE is known to him and that he stayed at the hotel

within the past eighteen months on one or two occasions

but undoubtedly did not use hig own name

and the name

used by TRAFFICANTE was unknown to him.

IV. INVESTIGATION BY SAVANNAH OFFICE TO ESTABLISH IDENTITY

OF A PERSON INTERESTED IN A HOTEL IN SOUTH AMERICA:

The Savannah Office advised on

December 16, 1961,

who had

in South America.

Source advisedhe preferred not to

identify the friend because he did not wish to get him

involved in anything. If source furnished such information

and his friend in Atlanta were contacted he feared his

connection would be divulged.

V. INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED AT TAMPA, FLORIDA, TO DETERMINE

ACTIVITIES OF THE SUBJECTO

A. J. GRIMALDI, President, Columbia Bank, Tampa,

advised SA JOHN D. MEDAGLIA on December 18, 1961,

that even though he frequents the Columbia Restaurant on

a daily basis and is a close neighbor to subject's residence,

2505 Bristol Avenue, Tampa, subject has not baen seen nor

reported in tampa.

He said subject was last heard of

÷3-

+.

92-2781-417

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TP 92-1

TP T-4, advised SA LABADIE on December 26, 1961,

that Mr. AUGUST PANIELLO received a communication post-

marked December 13, 1961, Miami, Fla., that Mr. and MrS.

SANTO TRAFFICANTE and family received

an envelope postmarked

Miami 2, Florida, December 11, 1961, that Mr. and Mrs:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE received an envelope postmarked Lexington,

December 11,

1961, bearing return address "209 A

East Nelson Street Lexington, Virginia", that Mrs. S.

TRAFICANTE had apparently purchased Eastern Airlines Ticket

Number 007 123 070 542 for travel from Miami to Tampa on

FEE A COLLINS MOMENT BEACH TA take Josing

, that JOSEPHINE

TRAFFICANTE had an

account at Central Bank of Tampa;

Tampa,

Florida, which had a balance of $1.67 October 31, 1961, as

of November 27, 1961, the account had a balance of $12.87,

and that the First National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Fla.

notified SANTO TRAFFICANTE, 2505 Bristol Ave., Tampa,

a note, No. 34027 was due at the Bank, November 27, 1961,

in amount of $8,659.25 to which $131.33 was added for

apparently interest.

TP T-5, advised SA LABADIE On December 26. 1961,

that

JEK La

11(a)

JOSEPH CRENSHAW, Supervisor of Eastern Airlines

facilities, Tampa International Airport, advised SA LABADIE

on December 26, 1961, that he personally knows and recognizes

the subject, and he personally recognizes subject's

family and

associates.

He said the subject has not been

reported using Eastern Airline facilities, has not been

seen at the airport to his knowledge, and should any infor

mation be obtained through other employees concerning the

subject, he would immediately advise the FBI.

CHARLES TURRENTINE, Supervisor National Airlines

facilities, Tampa International Airport, advised SA LABADIE

on December 26, 1961, that subject is known to him and that

subject has not been

reported seen nor heard of using

National Airlines

facilities. He said he knew there was

a stop on subject's travelder his own name at National

Airlines main reservations office, Hillsboro Hotel, and

that he would immediately advise should any information

be developed concerning the subject..

PHIL CICCARELLO, Sales representative for National

Airlines, Tampa International Airport, who greets passengers

and guests of National Airlines and facilitates any travels

by regular customers, advised SA LABADIE on December 26,

1961, that he has known the subject and his close associates

-5--

92-2781-417

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 7

---

## Page 8

TP 92-1

for many years.

He said subject has not been seen by him

nor has any of his associates been seen by him at the airport

or using National facilities.

He said he is personally

acquainted with JOHN DEMMI and JIMMY LONGO. He noted while

at the Tampa Dog Track on the night of December 23, 1961;

some unknown source had remarked that SANTO was home for

Christmas, but that no further information was obtained.

He said that if subject were flying in or out of Miami,

perhaps his father, JOE CICCARELLO, employed on the day

shift for many years with Pan American Airways, Miami

International Airport, may be of some assistance inasmuch

as his father is well

acquainted with the subject. He

noted his father sees all persons coming and going on

South American or foreign country flights and may have

seen and talked with subject.

A spot surveillance of subject's residence;

2505 Bristol Ave., was conducted on December 26, 1961,

by SA'S FRANCIS X. O'BRIEN and STEPHEN J. LABADIE and subject

was not observed.

A twenty-four hour surveillance was conducted

by Agents of the Tampa Office of 2505 Bristol Ave.,

and discontinued on the night of December 28, 1961,

inasmuch as subject had not been observed to enter

or leave

such residence.

TP T-6, advised SA JOHN R. BRETT on December 28,

1961, that he had been a visitor in

a home over the holiday

and had made inquiry concerning subject's activities.

Source said subject had been home for Christmas but had

left Christmas night to return to Miami.

Source said the

person he was

talking to said subject was not staying in

any particular one place in Miami. Source said he did not

know subject's method of travel from Miami to Tampa and

subject's plans for the New Year was not

determined, but

discreet inquiry may still be possible.

Source pointed

out that he must be very careful that no one obtains the

idea that he is overly interested in TRAFFICANTE'S

activities or he would be in serious trouble.

On December 28, 1961, Mr. GRIMALDI again

advised SA MEDAGLIA that

subject had not been reported

subs home

by his sources as seen at his home nor about Tampa.

-6-

92-2781-417

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 8

---

## Page 9

TP 92-1

with.

Source said he could not

say whom subject contacted

while in Tampa, stating subject would very seldom get out

but stay in his home and those that wanted to see him

would go to his home:

Source did not know subject's personal

physician, stating subject is always in good health, but

that a Dr. SCOLARO, 21st St., and E Broadway, Tampa, may

have treated the subject in

the past.

Source said that

he agreed subject may have insurance on his contact lenses,

if he still used them, but was of the opinion that SANTO

didn't use them any more.

This same source advised he was of the opinion

that subject travelled by air when coming to Tampa stating

he knew for sure that subject had come into the st.

Petersburg, Fla., airport several times in the past years

and that he normally came and went at night.

Source said

he knew no one close to the subject who would furnish

information on his travels stating his closest associates

were JAMES C. LONGO and FRANK DIECIDUE, neither of whom

would be cooperative nor divulge any information.

Contact was had h& LABADIE with TV It,

TP T-11

and TP T-12 of.

a regular basis to

_ january 2, 1961, but source

failed to indicate any presence of subject

at 2505 Bristol

Ave., Tampa.

PAUL B. JOHNSON, State Attorney, County Courthouse,

advised SA LABADIE on January 2, 1961, that subject's

whereabouts and activities are unknown to his office.

He said he understandsthrough his Chief Assistant State

Attorney, HERB GOLDBURG, whom he contacts daily and knows

resides immediately next door to 2505 Bristol 'Ave., that

no sot are

SANTO had not been seen nor around his home over the holidays.

Mr. JOHNSON stated that he knew Mr. GOLDBURG was vitally

interested in observing any activity of the subject.

He said the sources available to the State Attorney's

Office apparently indicate that subject is not around

Tampa to any extent at all.

Attempts to locate JAMES C. LONGO by SA FRANCIS

X. O'BRIEN on January 2, 1961, and through his residence

were negative.

The last available telephone toll calls

concerning subject's residence and that of his mother,

MrS. MARIA G. TRAFFICANTE, 3010 N Boulevard are set forth

-10-

92-2781-4.17

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TP 92-1

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

TP T-1, is a businessman who has knowledge of racket

activities but who is not in a position to

testify.

TP T-2, is a businessman having contacts in rackets in Georgia.

TP T-3, is a businessman who has daily contact with numerous

persons of Italian extraction but who is not in a

position to testify.

TP T-4,' 1$ a source furnishing information on a regular

basis who is not available.

TP. T-S, is a source in another government agency.

IP T-6, is a businessman who has been closely associated with

Italian persons in the Tampa area and with the subject

in the past but who is not available to testify.

TP T-7, is a person having ready access to events at the

Columbia Restaurant.

TP T-8; is a person formerly deeply entrenched in Tampa

rackets who has an intimate knowledge of Italian

racketeers but who is not in a position to testify.

TP..T-9

is a businessman whose business it is known of

various illegal rackets but who does not care to

testify.

TP T-10,

is a businessman formerly closely associated with

numerous racket figures, who has personally known

the TRAFFICANTE family all his life, but who is not

in a position to testify.

TP T-11

is a source furnishing information on a regular

basis who is not available.

TP T-12, is a source who is not available.

-18%-

92-91781-417

NW 68262 Docld:32294315 Page 10

---

