# docid-32309628

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10299-10039

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-211-54

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

AISC

[Restricted]

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 05/14/1970

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF AISC

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO AISC

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:Nu

56754 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 66754 Docld:32309628 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEHENT INFORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available

• for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[] Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection 2 (living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

Subsection 3

[]

Subsection 4

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

it Fox your information: BefeRRED

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

113-7-211-54

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXxXxXXXX

xxxxxxxxxx

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

NW 66754 Docld:32309628 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DEPARTMENT O DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE IN C MATION RE

NOTE: This document contains Infomtation

allecting the national delense of the United

Seatos within the meanine of the espionago

laws, Tillo 18, U.S.C., Sea 793 and 798.

CONFTE

. The transmlasion or the revelation of 1la

Thia report conta

Plana and or poll

or modilled ool oly

contents in any manner lo an unauthorized

person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY:

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

on and Control Markings)

8. REPORT NUMBER:

6 827 0077 70

ORT

evolved

of ihla roport.

SUBJECT: (U) Possible

Small Arms Purchases. 9, DATE OF REPORT:

14 May 1970

from Merix A.G.

of Germany

O510. NO. OF PAGESI

2

NUMBER:

11. REFERENCESi

(a) DIRM 103

(b)

IR 6 827 0244 65

mililary And Naval Matters

C 1 6 01 0046

ominica

A. DATE OF INFORMATION:

8 May 1970

12. ORIGINATOR: USDAO-Santo Domingo, DOMREP

MAY

5. PLACE AND DATE OF ACO: Santo Domingo,

DOMREP.

8 May 1970

6. EVALUATION: SOURCE.

B

INFORMATION_#L

7. SOURCE:

Dominican Businessman;

Secretariat of the Armed Forces;

ARMA Observations

13. PREPARED BY:

BARRIS,

S. Army Attache

In APPROVING AUTHORITY.

sawrence

R. T. LAWRENCE, COL, USMC

Defense Attache and Naval

Attache:

13.

SUMMARY:

I. (C) Background.

2. (OX Speculators. 3. (8) FAI Cal 7.62MM (NATO) Rifles

Available.

4. (4)

Import Authorization for FAL Rifle from Merix A.G. of Germany.

COMMENTS: 76) There is no doubt that the Military are lining up their election

promises and arranging to present their bill to the President, if heis elected.

Many hands are stirring the Arms pot in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but the "Head Chef"

is still General PEREZ y Perez.

He's willing to look at all offers presented him

by his "Old Colonels" and their contacts, but will still have to see where he

personally stands following the elections.

President BALAGUER may want a new

Interestingly, Mr. Cummins of Interarmco, in a letter to Mr. Enriquez written

n 29 April 1970 from Monaco,

said there were no surplus FAL rifles available for

sale and new ones would be $140.00 (U.S.) in Belgium..

Mr. Enriquez was going to

Brussels to check NATO for possible direct surplus sale rather than through Merix

DRGU

339562

106

how much kickback, etc.

1. (0) Background.

The Dominican Armed Forces have received the great bulk of their

modernization from MAAG Military Grant Assistance since the Trujillo era ended in

This assistance precluded small arms since the Dominican inventory was loaded

with their own Cristobal carbines, Spanish CETME's, German G-3's, Mauser Rifles and

Carbines, and FAL 7.62 (NATO) Rifles.

Prior, during, and following the Revolution

of 1965 many of the Government's small arms and munitions were stolen or diverted

to revolutionaries and have been used since for terrorist purposes, mostly in Santo

Domingo. The Arms Manufacturing Plant at San Cristobal and the Chemical and

Explosives Plant at Villa Mella have been on a caretaker basis since the early

0--

110-2

60's and are not capable of arms or explosives production without major infusions

of money, new machinery and foreign expertise.

Following President BALAGUER's

omoni

In 1966 and his austerity program, the military was forced to draw in theimmor

DISTRIBUTION BY ORIGINATORI

CINCLANT

USCINCSO

COMCARIBSEAFROY

GROUP- 3

DOWNGRADED AT 12-YR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIEFIED

DOD DIR 5200 10

CO ST.M; ALEX, WFO, MM

2 Enclosures

1. (0) Letter from Q.M.

General of War Materials for

the Armed Forces to Mr.

Hernan Henriquez dated 21

Apr 79, No. 1145

2. (U) Authorization from

Secretary of State

for Armed

Forces dated 7 May 1970, No.

10621-

(0 18-10 Kim)

re: mudary + Nast

matter-DR CONPIDONPTAI

ONE NOELITIA

113-7-21

Vario

Inge 3

rimi

---

## Page 4

DEPARTMENT

OF

DEFENSE INTELLIGENC

CONTINUATION SHEET

-CONFIDENTIAL.

REPORT NO: 6 827. 0077 70

PAGE

2

0F ...2"

PAGES

ORIGINATOR USDAO Santo Domingo,

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(Classification and Control Markings)

belts and make do with the modernization afforded the lst Bde and later the 9th Bn

by USMAAG.

They did receive some 400 - 500 FAL rifles in 1968 through a barter

arrangement with Interarmco, Alexandria, Virginia.

However no major arms pur-

chases have been made since

the 165 Revolution, although several unsuccessful

attempts were made by U.S. and other Arms dealers periodically to sell various

weapons systems,

10., FAL, Stoner, AR18's, etc.

Each time the actual arms bids

were boosted 10% by whoever was promoting the "deal"; in the old Trajillo manner.

2. (O) Speculators.

Mr. Sam Cummins, President of Interarmco, Monaco, made his start following

WW II selling surplus war materials to Trujillo.

The "Old Dominican Colonels"

still remember both with affection and greed. Much of the Army is still equipped

with this Interarmco surplus (tanks, armored cars, artillery, machine guns, mortars,

etc.). His agent still has lst chance at any bartering and selling.

bo. Mr. Irving Davidson, Washington, D.C., is another power in Dominican selling

circles and much quoted on any type speculation.. He is considered the top contact:

in the U.S. by Dominican dealers.

Mr. Leland P. Johnston, Minerals Industriates, O por A, 1s a mining claims

speculator in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but has worked in armament sales during the

(Laave Blank

do Mr. Karl W. Lange, Vice President of Santiago, InCes

Clayton, Missouri and

Peguero, his Dominican partner,

are active in land, hotel and arms

speculation (AR 18 sales).

The Peguero's (father-and 2 brothers)

are well connected

politically, financially, and socially in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

Mr. Herman

Henriquez Iora and his brother are arms agents

for Interarmce,-

Dutch and other U.S. concerns (AR 18, Stoner, FAL, etc).

personal friends

of President BALAGUER and General PEREZ y Perez and associates.

Colone rate VAs Pera Quarter aster beneral of var Materials for tine

Quartermaster General_of War Materials-for_th

Dominican Armed Forces, states that his sources have located some 3500 FAL rifles

for sale in a NATO depot, 35 miles south of Hamburg, Germany.

The rifles to sell

at $90.00 (U.S.) each there, or $95.00 (U.S.) each, CIF, Santo Domingo.

the dealer to go to Germany

to verify the information and to return with 2 sample

rifles so they can be examined for suitability.

Dom Pre

(0) Import Authorization for FAL Rifle from Merix A.G. of Germany•

Enclosúre 2

is an authorization by Major General Enriquey PEREZ yXPerez,

Secretary of State_for

the Armed Forces,

to import 1 FAL Cal 7.62 rifle, stock and hand grip wooden with

flash hider; 5 magazine of 20 shots each; 2 magazine carriers, canvas of 2 magazine

German Embassy in Santo Domingo put their seal on this importation authorization

and the Arms Agent departed Santo Domingo for U.S. -and later Germany on 9 May 1970.

(&) There is no doubt that the Military are lining up their election

promises and arranging to present their bill to the President, if heis elected.

Many hands are stirring the Arms pot in the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but the "Head Chef""

is still General PEREZ y Perez. He's willing to look at all offers presented him

by his "Old Colonels" and their contacts, but will still have to see where he

personally stands following the elections. President BALAGUER may want a new

Interestingly, Mr. Commins of Interarnco, in a letter to Mr. Enriquez written

on 29. April 70 from Monacu,

said there were no surplus FAl rifles available for

sale and new ones would be $140.00 (U.S.) in Belgium.

Mr. Enriquez was going to

Brussels to check NATO for possible direct surplus sale rather than through Merix

A.G. of Germany, so it remains to be seen, who will sell what, to whom, and for how

much kickback, etc.:

ONE DENTIAT

SONADEN!

AM FORM LONE.

NW A0/04

Nicold mouton huge 4

---

## Page 5

REPUBLIDA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

" O

POR LA PATRIA"

1115

21 de abril de 1970.-

Señor

Hernán Henriques,

Coral Gables, Portes,

U. Bo do.5?

Estimado Señor Henriquez:

Me complace mucho informarle

que he recibias to

da la Información por escrito, que ne envió con el DI MARINO A

Sobre los Fusilés FAL Cal.7.62 (NATO),

que el domingo 19 de abril de 1970,

bien informarlo, inforación, confirmada: ratificada, de manera

do la siguiente

que no deje lugar para dudas o malos entundidos entre esta oficia

de todo orédito, en base a documentosa

na y la fuente intorante die es la siguiente; muy confidencial

La información que se nos

"La NATO,

está reduciendo sus fuerzas considerablemente,

a dado origen'a que las armas que esas fuorsas usaban sean rein-

tegradas a los depósitos de la NATO y están siendo puestas en vene

te a precio atractivo.

se encuentran en lá actualidad en un depósito de la

siendo su estado como nuevos ato a 35 mu-

llas al Sur de HAMBURGO, Alemania; pudiendo ser enbarcadas por. ol

misno puerto Hamburgo directo a Santo Domingo. intre las armas

encuentran a disponibilidad (3,500) Fisiles =

TAL 091•7.62 (NATO) 55

culata de madera

a un precio de alnacén de US$90.00, siendo supro

cio CIF Santo Domingo de US$95.00".

Esto indudablemente, parece coincidir con respecto

• la partida de armas, a la mirmas qus usted nos refiere;

tros nos apresuramos a ponerlo a su conocimiento tal información,

a fin ue que usted la utilici. Esto ha despertado tanto

interes

en la superioridad, que estamos pensando en que yo niso viaje

Alemania, con nuestra fuente intomativa i fiu de verificai

partida y apresurar en cuando

no necesario. psta transucion.Noso-

.Dejo ningun concrate

udomos degarlo fuera de

An (instrucciones augere d

dor esc que le estoy

Enel No: 1o, Dio Jarto Sobirgo, DiR

1R 6822.0072:200/4 MM 70

---

## Page 6

HOS H B6

REPUBLIDA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

"TODO POB LA PATEIA!

1:6

-20

21 de abril de 1979.

-Continuación-

esta información cuanto

antes; hemos sabido aquilatar y apre

los servicios que nos ? prestado y en alguna fora hemos de

corresponderle.

Especialmente

por el interesante viaje que hizo.

a Europa, en 1969, precisimente para esta operación.

Deseo informarle adenás, que ya se han impaitido las

instrucciones,

de que nos están despachando cor a-

los cuales examinarenos

para dar nuestra conformidad; llegaran dentro de lau Pro: inas(96)

horas por avión.

Sobre este particular, esperanos sus prontas noticias

para decisión final.

Inmodiatamente recibanos los ejemplares que uos envían,

le avisaré.

Como siempre, estrnos trabajando con nuestro mavor enne

ño por ofrecer las mayores economías a los fondos de nuestro to-

bierno, a lin de que nuestra economía sea vulnerada lo menos po..

isible, por lo menos en el capitulo que concierne a nuestro trabas

Usted sabe que, esta forma de trabajo

as mi norte y mi único

En espera de sue

contas noticias

10: coluda 014

Intendente denurl del Matonial

abuerzas armados

Beh hen de 24s

SIe

Dirección Cablescafici

IGMABEFA

Asuntado de Correos. W0.121:

8:150 Domingo,

"Revo,

---

## Page 7

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA

SECRETARLA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

"TODO POR LA PATBIA"

? de mayo de 1970.

10621

•AUTORILACION

En base a lo que me confiere el artículo 3ro. de la

Ley 36 de Lecha 1110-65 sobre Comercio,

Porte y Tenencia de

autorizo a señor HiNAN HUrIQuez, Cédula Personal:

de Identidad No. 2202 Berie Ira, dominicano, mayor de

edad,

residente en la

calle 19 de marzo No.56 (altos), Santo Do-

¡a importar para las Fuerzas Armadas de la Re

pinta Dalaicana, Las siguientes propiedados de armas, on

calidad de mestras:

1oo: Fusil "Fal Cal.l.62, culata y empuñadure

de madera y cubre llamarada:

5.- Cargadores de (20) cápsulas cada uno;

2.- Porta-cargadores de lona,

de dos cargado-

ras cada uno;

1. Bipodo para el fusil;

1o Correa de lona para el fusili

1. Rellenador de cargadares; y

1. Equipo de limpieza bánido (ana aceiterita

Tra malo abrondra de a Mate polo de shorae, o aura

IN L'ERNATIONAL ®

ENRIQUE PEREZ Y PEREL,

Mayor General, E. N.

Secretario de Estado de las Fuergas Armadas:

DAM

1C: 6 8270072 20 0114MM 0114MM70

MIS WAIRNAL REQUIRES

SPECIAL

OEASSILCATION

PROCEDURES, REFER TO SAC

8:7462

---

