# docid-32331096

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10042

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

92-2989-225X

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 12.14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI.

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/21/1965

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331096 Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

MM 92-106

Will continue to follow activities of subject

in NYC through informants and physical surveillance and

keep Miami advised.'

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida:

Will continue to follow activities of the subject

in the Miami area through informants and physical surveillance

when he is in the Miami area.

ADMINISTRATIVE

A copy of this report is furnished to WO for

ther information inasmuch as subject spends considerable

time in that city.

The period of this report overlaps the date of

previous report in order to include results of investigation

which were not available at that time.

As previously reported, Miami telephone numbers

JE 4-0717 and PL 8-5535 were among those numbers called

from subject's apartment at 40 Central Park South, NYC.

Investigation at the Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph

Co., Miami, reflects

that these numbers are out of service

and

records are not available which would indicate the sub-

scriber when the calls were made.

The following information is included in the

administrative section

In order not to jeopardize this

valuable informant:

On March 30, 1965, NY 3610-C-TE was interviewed

by SAs CHARLES G. DONNELLY

and RICHARD A. ANDERSON and he

advised he is with CHARLIE WHITE almost everyday. He stated

he believed CHARLIE WHITE has obtained a gambling stamp..

He

probably obtained the gambling stamp in Floridaand it is

probably presently in the possession of CHARLIE's son,

CHUCK DELMONICO.

-

B

COVER PAGE

-

NW 64578 Docld:32331096 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-106

Informant stated CHARLIE is still inactive,

although he is doing a little shylocking and taking bets

from one or two individuals.

Informant stated he is

also getting tips on the stock market from ALLIE HARRIS!

son, MEL. MEL had been married to LOU CHESLER's wife,

but informant believes he is presently separated from her.

Informant advised that he is to attend a fight

this night at Madison Square Gardens with CHARLIE WHITE,

LOUIE COKE of New Jersey, and another individual.

On April 28, 1965, NY 3610-C-TE was interviewed

by SAS PAUL G. DURKIN

and CHARLES G. DONNELLY and he advised

that CHARLIE WHITE presently has his young son, FRANK, stay-

ing with him at 40 Central Park South, NYC.

He said that

CHARLIE's wife, mother of FRANK, who lives in Chicago, is

having marital

difficulties with

her present husband and

CharLIE has taken the boy to stay with him for a while,

He stated that last week on April 20, 1965

CHARLIE WHITE went to Florida, accompanied by LOUIE: COKE

(DI BENEDETTO) Of New Jersey®

He did not know the reason

for this trip, but CHARLlE returned on Saturday, April 24,

1965.

LourenD, Dewe Velle

After his return, CHARLIE received

& request

which the informant believes was from ANTHONYMACCARDI,

although he

is not sure and it may possibly have been

from

TONY "Boy" ABOIARDO.

CHARLIE was asked to make reservations

at the Hotel Deauville at Miami Beach for this person and

a party of twelve at SAMMY DAVIS' show on April 25, 1965.

This individual had been staying at the Americana Hotel in

Miami and the informant believed he was still there.

Informant advised that a few weeks ago, CHARLIE

had a girl up to his room and after having relations

with

her, left her alone for a few minutes in his bedroom. This

prostitute, unknown to CHARLIE at the time, stole CHARLIE's

cuff links which werevery expensive.

On Saturday, April 24,

1965, the NYCPD returned the cuff links to CHARLIE and the

C

COVER PAGE

':,.

NW 64578 Docld:32331096 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-106

girl had been arrested for narcotics and in her possession

they found a pawn ticket for the cuff links.

Informant

did not know the girl's name or details of her arrest.

CHARLIE, but not as often as he had in the past.

Informant advised that TOMMY NELSON still vistts

He said

NELSON frequently hangs outat the City Squire Hotel and the

Hickory House

across the street.

He stated he had determined that ALBERT GEORGE

is the individual who hasypreviously been in contact with

CHARLIE and had been considering a trip to Europe.

stated ALBERT GEORGE is a con-man and CHARLIE WHITE has

no business with him other than the fact that GEORGE will

occasionally obtain a girl for CHARLIE.

GEORGE sells

novelties and works at church auctions.

He advised that ASH/RESNICK of Las Vegas was in

from Las Vegas last week, stayed at the City Squire Hotel•

andhad been in contact with CHARLIE on one occasion.

NY 3610-C-TE advised SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY on

May 12, 1965, that he is still seeing CHARLIE WHITE just

about every day.

CHARLIE's son, FRANKIE, has now returned

to his mother in Chicago.

He stated CHARLIE WHITE is a kleptomaniac and

it proves very embarrassing tohim.

He stated that if they

go into a store, CHARLIE has to steal something.

It may be

only a bag of peanuts or some razor blades, and

after he

gets out, he will just as often ask the informant if he

wants it or maybe will even throw or give them away.

just seems to get a charge out of this stealing. L

Informant advised that WHITE has

trouble with

hislegs and walks with a decided limp.

Informant, on the

doctor's orders, has been giving CHARLIE exercises daily

for his legs.

FLAI

D

COVERPAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331096 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 92-106

He stated that since his return from Florida

about two weeks ago, CHARLIE went to two weddings in

Newark.

Informant stated that recently CHARLIE WHITE

loaned GEORGE ALBERT's (phonetic) car to the girl (BOBBI

KELMAN), wholleased CHARLIE's former apartment at 40

Central

Park South.

The girl, accompanied by another

girl, had an accident in this car and it was found the regis-

tration for the car was not completely in order.

The police

questioned her and she would not mention CHARLIE WHITE'S

name, merely stating she had obtained the car from a friend.

CHARLIE later told herit would have been all right for her to

have said that she had gotten the car from him.

The story

they are giving now is that the car is owned by ALBERT and

this girl had borrowed the car from JEANETTE (LNU) (HENDIER),

who lives in 40 Central Park South, on the floor just below

CHARLIE and who has known CHARLIE for a long time.

Informant

advised the car has been impounded by the NYCPD and is on

the street in front of the 67th Precinct, waiting for written

authority from GEORGE ALBERT tomove the car.

It was noted that a blue Oldsmobile Starfire

convertible bearing Ohio liense tag 654AG was parked outside

the 67th Precinct and it had been smashed in the front.

This car had a sign in the window - 19th Precinct - Voucher

Number 590. \

In relation to the above case, informant intro-

duced ISAAC FRANKLIN, allawyer and his assistant BERNIE

(LNU) to CHARLIE WHITE to handle any suits that might arise

from the aforementioned accident.

Concerning FRANKLIN,

he stated that FRANKLIN is supposed to be a front man

JOE CATALDO in the Dafe Go Go in New York City. L

11. 5. 12

CHARLIE, WHITE told theinformant that he wants

to contact JOSEPH ZICARELLI and he asked the informant to

contact ZICARELLI (and have ZICARELLI get back to him.

Informant advised that he will probably contact ZICARELLI

on May 12, 1965, and request him tocontact CHARLIE WHITE.

- E

-

COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331096 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-106

Informant advised that CHARLIE WHITE, a few weeks

ago, contacted ANGELO DE CARLO, accompanied by

LOUIS COKE.

Informant drover over to New Jersey, with them,

but stayed

in the diner and did not enter DE CARLO's, telling CHARLIE

WHITE thathe hates DE CARLO. \ A

1IS. CHARLIE told the informant when they were younger,

friends and, as a matter

that later on, he went "The Boot'" (RUGGIERO, BOIARDO) , but

did not state

who GYP went with.

CHARLIE indicated that he

does not care for GYP either.

WHITE stated that he wants

to go and see "The Boot" on his farm in New Jersey and he

invited the informant to come with him.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is MM 934-C.

MM T-2 is MAX GOLDPIN, PCI®

MM T-3 is PH 672-C-TE.

MM T-4 is JOSEPH CARUSO, PCI.

MM T-5

iS ANN MC MANUS, Switchboard Operator,

40 Central Park South, New York City.

(by request)

MM T-6 is NY 4008-C.

"COVER PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331096 Page 6

---

