# docid-34517491

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date: 12/01/98

Page * 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10008-10312

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PAGES D01-D06

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO :

TITLE : ARMY REGULATION

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS : DOCUMENTS REFERRED FOR REVIEW BY ARRB LTR 5 FEB 97

(CASE #36J)

MILITARY INTELLIGENCE, INTELLIGENCE CORPS, UNITED

STATES ARMY MISSIONS, FUNCTIONS AND EMPLOYMENT OF

PERSONNEL AND UNITS (AR 381-100)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/97

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NW 64954 Docld:34517491 Page 1

---

## Page 2

517, 1051 Tues, 150x6

CONFIDENTIAL

*AR 381-100

ARMY REGULATIONS

No. 381-100

HEADQUARTERS,

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

WASHINGION 25, D.C., 19 March 1962

MILITARY INTELLIGENCE

INTELLIGENCE CORPS, UNITED STATES ARMY MISSIONS, FUNCTIONS, AND

EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL AND UNITS

(U)

437) ACSI CENTRAL POLICY FILE/

Paragraph

SECTION I. GENERAL

Authority --

Purpose..

Definitions-

II. COMPOSITION, MISSIONS, AND RELATIONSHIPS

Composition.

Chief, Intelligence Corps-.

Missions-

Relationships with the Army Staffs.

Relationship with USCONARC

Relationship with other agencies.

III. EMPLOYMENT

Basic policy---.

Prohibited utilization..

Unconventional activities.

Intelligence jurisdiction.

Channels of communication.

IV. MAJOR FUNCTIONS

Field operations intelligence functions.

Counterintelligence functions.

V. INTELLIGENCE CIVILIAN CAREER PROGRAM PERSONNEL

Intelligence Civilian Career Program personnel..

1

2

3

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

*These regulations supersede AR 381-100, 17 June 1955, including C 1, 12 December 1958, and Section I of AR

381-104, 22 January 1957.

ACSI

This material contains information affecting the National Defense

of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws,

Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or

revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person

is prohibited by law

CONFIDENTIAL

Downgraded at 12-Year InterYals:

Not Automaticaly Declassified

0BD Dir. 5200.10

101

AP

381-100

137art2

NW 64954 Docld:34517491 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Section I. GENERAL

1. (U) Authority. The Intelligence Corps,

United States Army, was authorized effective 1

January 1961 by DA General Orders No. 48, 30

December 1960.

The Intelligence Corps person-

nel perform specialized intelligence functions con-

cerned with field operations intelligence (FOI) and

counterintelligence (CI).

2. (U) Purpose.

These regulations prescribe

the mission, functions, and employment of Intel-

ligence Corps personnel and units.

3. (Cy Definitions. a. (C) A Clandestine intel-

ligence operation is an illegal operation planned and

executed in such a manner that sponsorship is not

disclosed to an unauthorized person; it is also

planned so that if it is discovered, the sponsor can

plausibly disclaim any responsibility for it. Such

operations are included in both field operations

and counterintelligence functions.

6. 10) A covert operation is an operation planned

and conducted in a secret or conspiratorial man-

ner, but it is not illegal or in violation of any law

of the country in which conducted.

c. (U) Counterintelligence is that aspect of Army

intelligence activities, both offensive and defensive,

designed to insure the safeguarding of information,

personnel, units, materiel, and installations against

espionage, sabotage, or subversive activities of

foreign powers and disaffected or dissident groups

or individuals which constitute a threat to the

national security. It includes the detection of

treason, sedition, and disaffection within military

ranks and among the civilian employees of the

Department of the Army and other civilian em-

ployees as designated by the Department of the

Army, and the neutralization or destruction of the

eflectiveness of actual or potential hostile intelli-

gence and subversive activities.

d. TC) Clandestine counterintelligence consists of

offensive counterespiorage activities involving es-

pionage against, and penetration of, hostile intel-

ligence services

for the purpose of achieving

maximum security.

for the Department of the

Army and to achieve maximum neutralization of

hostile espionage activities. It does not include

safeguarding of military information, personnel

background investigations, and physical security

of classified materiel and installations.

e. (8) Field operations intelligence is the unclas-

sified cover name for the Army intelligence ac-

tivity of clandestine collection of strategic and i

tactical military intelligence information.

f. (U) Intelligence Corps unit. As used in these

regulations, this term pertains to those units pri-

marily engaged in field operations intelligence

and/or counterintelligence activities.

g. (U) Designated military intelligence (MI)

units. As used in these regulations, this term

pertains to military intelligence units containing

organizational elements which engage in field op-

erations intelligence and/or counterintelligence

activities.

Section I. COMPOSITION, MISSIONS, AND RELATIONSHIPS

4. (U) Composition. The Intelligence Corps

the accomplishment of the overall Department of

is an administrative grouping of U.S. Army

the Army intelligence effort by selecting, training,

Intelligence personnel to support the Army intelli-

and assigning, within overall Department of the

gence mission. It consists of the Chief, Intelli-

Army policy, the personnel necessary to conduct

gence Corps, and those U.S. Army personnel

field operations intelligence and counterintelligence

assigned a primary military occupational specialty

operations as individuals or in units.

This mission

(MOS) in field operations intelligence and counter-

excludes those functions performed by Army

intelligence.

attachés, intelligence staff

officers (G2's, S2's)

5. (U) Chief, Intelligence Corps. The Chief,

whose selection is a matter of command preroga-

Intelligence Corps, is also the Commanding

tive, and the functions charged to the United

General,

Intelligence

Center

States Army Security Agency.

(USAINTC). He will utilize the staff and other

6. Under the staff supervision of the Assistant

elements

of the USAINTC, as necessary, in

Chief of Staff for Intelligence (ACSI), Department

carrying out his missions.

of the Army, the Chief, Intelligence Corps—

6. (U) Missions.

a. The mission of the Chief

(1) Establishes policy and

actions to be

of the Intelligence Corps is to contribute to the

taken to insure adequate training, proper

operations of the Department of the Army and to

assignment and reassignment of Intelli-

2.

=

: D02

NEW 64904 Donatell Hage 3

---

## Page 4

gence Corps personnel, and the proper

as approved by Headquarters, Depart-

utilization

of

Intelligence Corps per-

ment of the

Army.

This does not

sonnel'and units. Makes recommenda-

change the audit responsibility of ACSI

tions to DCSPOK, Department of the

with

respect

to the expenditure of

Army, on policies pertaining to the pro-

intelligence contingency funds.

curement of personnel for assignment to

(10) Provides guidance for the determination

the Intelligence Corps.

of requirements and military character-

(2) Develops doctrine and policy governing

istics

for research and development of

the administration, operation, organiza-

equipment for field operations intelli-:

tion, and employment of Intelligence

gence, counterintelligence, and designated

Corps personnel and units, and Intelli-

intelligence staff support activities. De-

gence Corps elements of designated

termines qualitative requirements for

military intelligence units throughout the

security methods, equipment, and sys-

Department of the Army.

tems based on intelligence considerations.

(3) Establishes criteria for

investigations

(11) Monitors activities in the preparation

incident to clearing commissioned, war-

and coordination of test plans for items

rant officer, and enlisted applicants

of field operations intelligence, counter-

selected by Officers Assignment Direc-

intelligence, and designated intelligence

torate (OAD), DCSPER, and The Ad-

staff support equipment in conjunction

jutant General, with his concurrence, for

with appropriate agencies, and in con-

assignment to, training in, and duty with

ducting user tests of these items.

Par-

the Intelligence Corps.

ticipates in research and development

(4) Develops minimum standards for special

and acceptance tests of security equip-

investigative files, to include a system

ment and systems to assure that Army

for the inspection, retirement, and dis-

qualitative requirements in this field

position of

when no longer

are met.

required by the command or technical

7. (U) Relationships with the Army Staffs.

service concerned, subject to the provi-

The Chief, Intelligence Corps, operates under the

sions of AR 345-200 and AR 381-130.

staff supervision of ACSI. ACSI establishes

(5) Prepares and keeps current a worldwide

policies governing the operations, training, and

system of standardized Intelligence Corps

employment of the Intelligence Corps personnel

reporting, both as to format and presenta-

and

units throughout the Department of the

tion of content, subject to the provisions

Army.

The Chief, Intelligence Corps, is the

of AR 335-15.

advisor to ACSI on matters within his jurisdiction

(6) Provides guidance for the administration

pertaining to field operations intelligence and

of special

funds allocated

to

the

counterintelligence.

USAINTC by the Department of the

8. (U) Relationship with USCONARC.

Army.

Chief, Intelligence Corps, maintains direct liaison

(7) Recommends the composition, activation,

with the Commanding General, United States

and inactivation of Intelligence

Corps

Continental Army Command, to insure coordina-

units in the field and the composition of

tion on matters pertaining to training and devel-

Intelligence Corps elements

of

other

opment of doctrine, organization, tactics, tech-

units.

niques, and materiel relative to the employment

(8) Establishes training objectives for the • of Intelligence Corps personnel and designated

Intelligence Corps Army-wide.

military intelligence units of the Army in the

(9) Makes staff visits to Intelligence Corps

field.

units and designated military intelligence

9. (U) Relationship with other agencies. The

units to determine proficiency in admin-

Chief, Intelligence Corps, maintains liaison with

istration, adequacy of training and train-

the Departments of the Navy and the Air Force

ing objectives, and conformance with

and other governmental agencies for coordination

Intelligence Corps doctrine and policy

of activities of mutual interest.

3

03

---

## Page 5

Section III. EMPLOYMENT -

10. (U) Basic policy.

In order to prevent

dissipation of highly trained and critical special-

ists, the employment of Intelligence Corps per-

sonnel is restricted to duties and activities in

furtherance of the overall Department of the

Army intelligence effort. They will not serve on

staffs or as staff augmentation or be included in

tables of organization and equipment or tables of

distribution unless approved by Officers Assign-

ment Directorate, DCSPER, and The Adjutant

General, in coordination with the Chief, Intelli-

gence Corps. The Intelligence Corps units op-

erate under the staff supervision of the Assistant

Chief of Staff, G-2, of the appropriate command.

The operational and administrative control

Intelligence Corps personnel is the responsibility

of the appropriate unit commander.

11. (U) Prohibited utilization.

Intelligence

Corps personnel wil not be used on such duties as—

a. Routine combat patrols and reconnaissance

activities.

6. Interrogation or detention not connected

with assigned missions and functions as stated in

these regulations.

c. Investigations concerning black market ac-

tivities, moral turpitude, atrocities, war crimes,

criminal activities, welfare of the civilian populace,

or other similar activities, unless there is a direct

contribution to their normal intelligence mission.

d. Guard duties, including physical protection

of important personnel, except for own operations.

e. Housekeeping or other duties of a comparable

nature except for own operations.

12. (S Unconventional activities.

a. Success

ful accomplishment of the mission of Intelligence

Corps personnel may require their engagement in

unorthodox operations and activities at variance

with recognized standards or methods normally

associated

with the military service.

Com-

manders concerned will recognize that certain

operational latitude is necessary in intelligence

activities, and is authorized

endorsed by

Headquarters, Department of the Army.

b. Intelligence Corps personnel who are engaged

in clandestine and covert intelligence operations

designed to collect military intelligence informa-

tion will operate in such a manner that-

(1) Any United States Government responsi:

bility for the operation is not evident to

unauthorized persons.

(2) The United States Government

can

plausibly disclaim any responsibility for

them if uncovered.

(3) Although conducted in accordance with

the foregoing, & calculated risk is taken

that disclosure or compromise would be

justified by the results expected.

c. Any reference to the clandestine nature of

Intelligence Corps personnel or unit operations or

the association of the: names of individuals or

units with clandestine operations will be classified

CONFIDENTIAL or higher, in accordance with ,

AR 380-5, in the interests of national defense.,

13. (U) Intelligence jurisdiction. The invés-

tigative jurisdiction of Intelligence Corps person-

nel and units encompasses all matters within their

mission except as limited by regulations and agree-

ments by Department of the Army with other

agencies, such as those contained in AR 381-115.

In order to maintain the continuity of intelli-

gence coverage, Intelligence Corps personnel may

be employed without regard to geographical area.

Intelligence Corps personnel and unit activities

will be coordinated with other agencies; such as

Civil Affairs, Military Police, the United States

Army Security Agency, Special Forces, and any

other related intelligence agencies in accordance

with established command

policy.

14. (U) Channels of communication. a. Intel-

ligence Corps intelligence reports will be trans-

mitted to the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, of

the command to which assigned or attached, using

intelligence channels:

b. Intelligence Corps technical and operational

communications may be transmitted in intelligence

channels without regard to command boundaries.

c. Intelligence Corps administrative reports and

correspondence will be submitted in accordance

with AR 340-15 and other appropriate directives.

d. Direct communication is authorized between

the Chief, Intelligence Corps, and commanders of

Intelligence Corps and designated military intelli-

gence units in matters pertaining solely to Intelli-

gence Corps policy, doctrine, standards of opera-

tional techniques, planning, training, assignment

of personnel, research and development, and or-

ganizational changes affecting tables of organiza-

tion and equipment or tables of distribution.

4

=

- D04

---

## Page 6

15. (C) Field operations intelligence functions.

Field operations intelligence functions include but

are not limited to-

a. (@) Development and execution of plans for

the collection by clandestine means of intelligence

information not available through overt collection

mechanisms to fulfill the Department of the Army's

intelligence collection responsibilities.

Collection

priorities will be- established by the Assistant

Chief of Staff, G-2. of the major command

which assigned or attached.

b. 8C Conduct of special clandestine activities

assigned by proper authority.

c. (C) Defector inducement operations.

d. (C) Maintenance of source control register.

on all agents and sources and forwarding of copies

of all source data to the U.S.. Army Source Reg-

istry, ACSI, in compliance with pertinent Depart-

ment of the Army directives.

16. (U) Counterintelligence functions. Coun-

terintelligence functions include but are not

limited to—

a. Planning and aggressive conduct of clandes-

tine counterintelligence, countersubversive, coun-

terespionage, and countersabotage measures, re-

gardless of whether directed from controlled or

denied areas.

b. Conduct of investigations within the juris-

diction of the Department of the Army as re-

quested by the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, of

the appropriate command concerning the following:

Section IV. MAJOR FUNCTIONS

(1) Personnel under Army jurisdiction who

are suspected of disaffection, or of en-

gaging in subversive activity, espionage,

sabotage, treason, or sedition.

(2) Incidents and activities in which counter-

intelligence interest or violations of

security regulations are apparent or

suspected.

(3) Personnel security investigations of mili-

tary

and civilian personnel of the

Department of the Army.

(4) Personnel security investigations of civil-

ian employees, directors and key per-

sonnel of privately owned plants and

facilities working or bidding on classified

contracts under Army cognizance, when

requested by proper authority.

c. Recommendation of measures to safeguard

information of intelligence value.

d. Conduct of security surveys, security inspec-

tions, technical surveys, and security checks for

the purpose of insuring optimum safeguarding of

defense information and other sensitive matter.

e. Preparation and conduct of instruction

for

appropriate personnel concerning the security of

military information and activities.

f. Planning for an implementation of such

action in theaters of operations as is necessary to

seize and exploit counterintelligence targets and

to arrange for the continuing reduction, neutrali-

zation, and security of such targets.

Section V. INTELLIGENCE CIVILIAN CAREER PROGRAM PERSONNEL

17. (U) Intelligence Civilian Career Program

intelligence functions in nontactical units are

personnel. Civilian personnel in the Intelligence

governed by appropriate provisions of these

Civilian Career Program (ICCP) who are engaged

regulations unless otherwise prescribed inappli-

in field operations intelligence and/or counter-

cable laws, regulations, and instructions.

[AG 350.09 (8 Feb 62) ACSI]

5

- D05

---

## Page 7

By ORDER OF THE SECRETA. OF THE ARMY:

G. H. DECKER,

General, United States Army,

Chief of Staff.

Oficial:

J.C. LAMBERT,

Major General, United States Army,

The Adjutant General.

Distribution:

Active Army and USAR: To be distributed in accordance with DA Form 12-9 requirements for DA Regulations-

Military Intelligence—B plus Intel Co (5) ; Intel Det (1).

NG: State AG (3).

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1962 0-631244

.. D06

-====

NW 64954 Docld:34517491 Page 7

---

