JFK Assassination System Date: 6/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90118-10097

RECORD SERIES HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2897-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI

FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE

DATE: 07/16/1958
PAGES: 9

SUBIECTS :
HARRY RAYMOND POPE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4 ‘
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

vl 9
NW 64578 Docld:32334738 Page 1


‘HA BERN IGigwil 70 USE A IOUFE IN a FIGHT,
SON N

32334738" Page-2

18, 19 ;2437/3,8=10/5:

«| Report made by

spare ROBERT M. BARRETT

a that subject engaged in any specific
ing local prosecutive action at

>» EBI_#1486812,
Manisa in'Dallas court to
n-charge-and receive 3 years sentence.

Tavenigative Period 5 726 g iS/2, 910,11,

‘Typed By:

#0. 6, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: tose O—2:



DL 92-34

On July 8, 1958, it was determined that 2930 Forest
Avenue, Dallas, was a Negro rooming house and has been so for
the past three years, Tenants JESSIE SHELTON and BERTHA JEAN
LEMMON both advised that they knew of no white female named
Mrs. J. B. HUDSON having resided at that address for the past
three years. From the above it appears that Mrs. HUDSON used
a false address when she registered at the St. Angelus Hotel,
San Angelo, Texas, in November, 1957.

(3) Gangland Killings

On June 18, 1958, Dallas Confidential Informant T-7,
who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised
she was a very close friend of Dallas-Fort police character
EUGENE TOWNLEY. T-7 stated TONNLEY was a known narcotics
pusher and addict who was dealing in narcotics with ANGELO
THOMAS CASTEN, when TOWNLEY and TOWNLEY's wife mysteriously
disappeared from the Dallas-Fort Worth area. T-7 stated
TOWNLEY at that time was obtaining pure heroin from CASTEN and
that based on her. knowledge and association with police
characters in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, T-7 was of the
opinion that TOWNLEY and TOWNLEY's wife were murdered by
ANGELO CASTEN, HARRY POPE, and a third unknown individual
believed to have been GENE PAUL NORRIS, over a narcotics
argument. T-7 stated she had. no definite proof concerning
the above but that it was merely an opinion.

(4.) Miscellaneous Criminal Activities Information

On June 9, 1958, Assistant District Attorney CHARLES
CABINASS advised SA ROBERT M. BARRETT that prosecutive action
against POPE on frac of narcotics possession would take
place on July 9, 1958, in the Dallas District Court of Judge
FRANK B, WILSON. :

On July 9, 1958, CABINASS advised POPE!s attorney,
CHARLES TESSMER, had on July 9, 1958, made a motion to have
POPE's case passed until July 25, 1958, at which time POPE has
agreed to enter a guilty plea and will accept a three year
sentence. (Information leading to the arrest and indictment
of POPE on the narcotics possession charge was originally,
furnished the Dallas Sheriff's Office by the Dallas FBI Office.)

F, PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND HANGOUTS FREQUENTED

-6-

NW 64578 Docld:32334738 Page 3


DL 92-34
INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 is Mr. R, W. BURROW, Chief Special Agent,
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas.

T-2.is DL-95-C.

T-3 is DL-90-C,

T-4 is PCI JACQUELYN ANN DAVIS.

T-5 is DL-83-C.

T-6 is El Paso PCI WILLIAM HENRY TAYLOR of Odessa,
Texas.

T-7 is PCI MARILYN MILLER,

NW 64578 Docld:32334738 Page 4
