Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10264 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of

: 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

ILE NUMBER :

AGENCY F ‘asett:NW 68261 Date:
9-01-20

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32277345 Page 1


=o Date : 07/08/95
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10264
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO
TITLE :
DATE : 08/23/77
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS : WAXMAN, MEL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/26/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 3

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32277345 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter 2 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: ~

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middte-Last) Effective Date
Hel Waxman Decembsr 22, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
C Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
. _ fAC. Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginnit effective date above and ending
close of business___ -.
Speci Baie

{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.
2. 11 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.236._

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number... If applicable, Level_______.. Step. :

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting ae employment of 4
relatives.

All appointments.and salary adjustments for employees under the House. Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on. the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: 1D __
Office Code... _______

4
Copy for’ Initiating Office: or Committee : See ats i



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter C} US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

5 r i: be initial
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 seetoralag oft ge ulated by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middie-Last) Effective Date 4 |
| Mel Wamnan Gctober i, 1978 |
" 4
| Employee Social Security Number . Type of Action 4 t
A O Appointment
78) Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change 4
: C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) i
O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
Assassinations close of business, j
i
(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) !
j
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* i
d
$26,300.00 :
* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee =
plus the salary received from the employing office. :
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) for
1. 1 Standing Committee: Staff—Ol Clerical or 0) Professional. =~ PY
95 i \
2. © Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res” of 9” Congress. 4 \
3. C1 Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) Praia

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the. employment of
relatives. ceeylt =

October 10 78

(ignature of Authorizing Official)

“~~ LOUIS STOKES

{Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

If Member, District ond Stote)

All. appointments and salary adjustments for employees ‘under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
Ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

as of

(Revised: August 1.1977),

oe ‘ - : - -
|] Nw 68261 a ; wo
Docld:32277345 Page 4 £ .



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION’ FORM™

».-{Please Use. Typewriter: U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any ‘erasures,-corrections, or changes:

ql i on this form. must be initialed by the.
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) .

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)~ ; R Effective Date

Nel Waxman 8/23/77
Employee Social Security Number E z

§§) Appointment

Employing Office or Committee» , 1 Selary Adjustment.
Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information:)

Position Title 7 Gross Annual Salary

Staff Investigator $24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item-below,)

1. D Standing Committee: Staff—[ Clerical-or [1] Professional. .

2. FY Special or Select Committee: Authority -H, Res. 485. -. of 95tN Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

21 certify that .this authorization jis.-not in. violation.of 5 U:S:C, :3110(b), prohibiting the'employment of
relatives.

Date__ At

(Signature of Authorizing Official

LOUIS STOKES

{Title=if Member, District and State)

All.appointments-and salary adjustments for employees’ under. the: House Classification Act and for Committee em:
ployees, except those: of the ‘Committee-on Appropriations, the Committee ‘on the Budget, and the Joint‘Committees, must
be approved by the Committee-on House Administration:

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

nit 3 Copy for-Initiating Office or Committee. 3) os oie

NW 68261 : - ee .
Docld:32277345 Page 5 .

Type of Action. esse

JaabdiaWia i de te

abi ake nnd ie USNs te Bt tt wal Ba:

q

caiatuitisct

ccd tad



MEMORANDUM

TO: Mr. Blakey Old \
FROM: Robert J. Lehner y) '
te)

go

DATE: August 23, 1977

SUBJECT: Mel Waxman - Investigator

This is to confirm that Mel Waxman is starting on
the King investigative staff on August 23, 1977 at |

$24,000 per annum.
{ J |
\
\

RIJL:ek

EE —

| Nw 68261 ee
| Docld:32277345 Page 6



\-
| Nw 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The. following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, vou must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.
om mm related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

LJ 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

ee Ao glas/zz
Signature of Employee Date

Docld:32277345 Page 7

