# docid-32340360

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

124-90158-10017

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-169535-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/02/1967

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

RIGOBERTO DELGADO PEREZ

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act oh

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09-22-7022

19.1

NW 68262 Docld:32340360 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY. 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVER

WENT

Memorandum

(SERRED

TO

* FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

GIA HAS NO BA EGHÓN 7O

DUC: ASSIRCATION AND/OR,

SAC, MIAMI (105-13462) (P) MELEASE OF CIA INFORNATION

CHANGED

IN THIS DOCUMENREC. 102

RIGOBERTO DELGADO PEREZ,

KP 2-4-48

Rigoberto,Rufino Delgado Perez,

Leonardo Contreras

IN CONTATNED IS - CUBA

JEED

(00:

NEW YORK)

ORMANWISE

#all, 32611

8-12194

Classified by SP683A 6CTFK)

Declassify any

Get 7/26/84

Title

"LEONARDO CONTRERAS" for subject.

changed to reflect addition of alias

SLIP (S),

Re Miami letter to Bureau, dated 7/21/67. per

Enclosed to the Bureau are five copies of a

Letterhead Memorandum and two copies to New York and Newark

in above caption.

ADVISED BY

AND FIRED

Copy is furnished locally to Immigration and

Naturalization Service (INS), Miami.

ĐNI L

ICES

ATE AGENCIES

State/Ree

IDSV/IS0/07N

Bip for talo.

747

1-16-42 by DOZ

Miami indices reflect that CIA, Miami, submitted

name check on subject to FBI, Miami, on March

20, 1962.

The INS file of subject contained a memo dated

August 11, 1964; from RAY DU BOIS, CIA Covert, Miami, advising

INS that subject was then outside

by INS on

therefore, would not appear for a Special Inquiry hearing

the United States and, (5*(u

August 18, 1964.

On July 13, 1967

advised that he was being terminated

LUISYPOSADA confidentially

in his employ by

CIA, Miami. He said he had known the subject as the latter

had

also been of operational interest to CIA. POSADA advised

that when subject last entered the United States from Cuba

in June, 1967, he had inphis possession a letter from the

2

Bureau (Enc 5) (RM)

2

2

- Newark (Enc 2) ARMLOSURE

-

New York (Enc'. 2)

(RM)

1 - Miami

JJO/vas

MCT-5/05-/-753

ST-106

2

(7)

State/CIA

Copy

-/R10.-.

/Customs/Coast Guard

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, State

AUG 7 1967 SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

GLASSTFICATIOT

ACTION

ASE

ATIN-A

5010-108-01

for revion si

Buy U.5. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan ESCA-Reg. 0f 12/22/5-

NW 68262 Docld:32340360-Page 2

---

## Page 3

'SFA

PETI

MM 105-13462

Czech Embassy, Washington, D. C. CESAR DIOSDADO, Customs

Agent, Key West, who handles CIA matters, found this letter

in subject's possession.

POSADA said it

was his understanding

that subject may have been interested in returning to Cuba

and thus

wrote to the Czech Embassy, or he possibly

obtained the letter for his protection in case he was

caught on a trip into Cuba; the letter would tend to show

he desired to go back to Cuba.

POSADA said CIA had planned to have him conduct

investigation to ascertain subject's possible pro-CASTRO

sympathy.

On July 21, 1967, AUSTIN HORN, CIA Covert, M11965

reported to have vanished and rumors placed him in

New

York or possibly in Cuba looking for new refugees.

Mr. HORN described

subject as extremely fat and owning a

white convertible.(

LEADS

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

1.

Will check with International Rescue Committee

(IRC), 386 Park Avenue South, for present residence and

employment of subject.

2.

Will thereafter verify presence of subject per

IRC without interviewing subject at this time.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

Will determine residence and employment of subject's

brother, ROGELIO LEONARDO DELGADO PEREZ, born November 6, 1944,

INS Number Al4. 091 970, who was resettled on May 24, 1967,

care of Catholic Charities, 31 Mulberry Street.

-2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32340360 Page 3

---

