JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

5/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90104-10197

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2940-7

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI

FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 02/14/1958
PAGES: 68

SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS : 3; 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: ~=RPT

vo 2
NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 1


Ba92-226° eee ie at a

NUMBER : -’ -SUBSCRIBER “DATES ‘CALLED ae

Diamond.7-7967 J, 'J. SCARDINA,- October 20 (2). * |

aoe : : : (1620 Farrell Terrace October 28.00 as
tae .Farrell, Pa: November’ 16

ee

2 isireacacreteieer fee November: 19 | >

"Regarding SCARDINA, on July 1, 1957,. CHARLES. RAY "RED" coe : id
LA. CAMERA: (Pittsburgh ‘top hoodlum). advised’ SA PORTELLA. eee : :
_ (that che: was engaged-in handling numbers and bookmaking . | 7 Be |
».0n @ Small. scale and::that' he would never get big in this. -. :
endeavor. LA CAMERA said that in the :Sharof-Farrell, : : :
B., area, JOHN SCARDINA. was the big fumber's. baron. and . : i
,. that-all ‘others: merely worked’ for SCARDINA: : ars as

in January 27, 1958,. Mrs. CLOVER GIBSON, Secretary, and
MiBS LORENA SANDERS, Clerk, VeldaRosé Motel, Hot Springs, : i
Arkansas, advised SA ROBERT E, HICKAM that records of that. . :
motel reveal that-JOHN-S.~ LA ROCCA, 500 North Craig : : i '
Street, Pittsburgh, was registered inthe \Velda Rose: .’ |. 7 -
Motel on October 22, -1957;.with one JOHN SCARDINA, address

not. given and departed on November 8, 1957. Mrs. SANDERS ~

advised: that. SCARDINA had made calls. to ‘Sharon, Diamond: 7-
7967, on October ‘22, 26; 30; and November 6,°1957. °° 7

T-3,advised that: the following call was:made’ from Forest eee :

(NUMBER (5°40. | “SUBSCRIBER spares CALEED

\Apalachin.6-2711 . JOSEPH BARBARA,-SR © - October 20;1957°
oe . ., Apalachin, New. York fe feeeeeeeeeeetetettecd
JOSEPH BARBARA, SR.,.18 an Albany top hoodlum, at wHose --
~, Rome the: ApAtachin conference was held. é "

, P-4 furnished avlist. of toll calls for. the, period. November

_" < and December;' 1956 and January to November 1957, for’ the”

“-telephote. number Apalachin 62711, and: Apalachin) 22719, listed’ ‘|
MUNLEY..*

for JOSEPH. BARBARA, Apalachin, to SA “PATRICK A.

\ . : : " a) “Um feeemers

a eee ee cee te

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 2


7 98-206 :

It is noted: that: JEAN MANNARTNO “Ae. the wife of. ‘KELLY: MANNARINO-
( Pittsburgh’ top hooldum) igho. attqnded. the. Apalachin: eonference af
Sn New York. fae aie : : Bhan see edi eeer

, . \

carers . * peti _ pees
‘ j ° i 2

) .
“Regarding” LA, ROGCA'S' gosociiation: with JOE ROS A’ as was: s: previously:
set out on January 14, 1958,. Father. JOSEPH SHEETZ, Corpus... _
‘Christ’ Roman Catholic. Church, Pittsburgh, advised SAL eS

, THOMAS’G. FORSYTH, III, .that-he has in. the:past on’many > |.
», , occasions had .lunch or. supper at the’ Genovese Coektail Lounge ;.
412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh, and has on ‘several of these :
. o¢easions;-observed JOHN:LA ROCGA in the company of JOE... ~
ROSA MIKE GENOVESE, SAM MANNARINO, and: KELLY MANN'ARINO. :

on ‘January: ik, 1958, T-7., who. has furnished reliable anfor-:
|. «mation in. the past advised that for the past: Several: years, —
_t° . LA ROA has. been a frequent vi sitor -to the Gekovese Lounge,
: Pittsburgh ;: and. that: at various times he. has. observed him
in’ the company. of stich individuals aS. PRANK’ AMATO, .SAM
- MANNARINO, JOE ROSA, KELLY. MANNARINO, “MIKE “GENOVESE, ARCHIE 7
_AELSON and A BOOTE. BELLINI. eee . :

“On- ganuary 16, "1957, “Detective ;JOHN JANES, pittsbureh ca : >
» Police Department, advised SA FORSYTH’ of a confidential te
source who, recently told’ him thatSAM MANNARINO,. “KELLY: MANNA AINOsarid, :
JOHN LA ROCCA ‘had close associations in ee ragkets:.’ ‘ Loe

furnished the. foliowing. calls made oy JOHN TA. ROCCA on’ the ” : : coe
: _dates feel forth. : : ait Bias

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 3


| | O _

PG 92-226

On January’ 14, 1958, JOSEPH BRUSCO, 207 Guyasuta Road,

Fox Chapel, Pa.,was interviewed at his bar at 549 North

Homewood Avenue, Pittsburgh. BRUSCO allegedly had furnished
information to ANDREW J. SUSCE, former IRS collector, Pittsburgh,
regarding the’ number's activities of JOHN LA ROCCA. “BRUSCO
advised that the information he had given in the past was

now "ancient-history" and that at the time he furnished

this information he did so only.because. he was pressured

as regards to his own tncome tax. BRUSCO said he has

long since terminated his number's business and has had

no further association with number's writers in the Pittsburgh
area. BRUSCO.stated he knew JOHN LA ROCCA but advised: he ,BRUSCO,
was a small time operator. “RRUSCO would neither confirm

or deny that he had turned his numbers into JOHN LA ROCCA.

BRUSCO was adamant at the time of interview and obviously
did. not.care.to furnish any information of: any. kind.

On January 17, 1958, JACK MAZZA, retired city detective,
advised that the numbers; business in Pittsburgh is open

to anyone or any faction who is or are able to pay off.

the police. MAZZA said that in no instance is the numbers.
business controlled by any one man or any alleged syndicate.
MAZZA said that in the days past JOHN LA ROCCA:had a. large
numberg business in’ the East Liberty Section of Pittsburgh,
but that over ‘the course of time he-has’entered into a
semi-retirement, “MAZZA said that. the biggest book in the
East. Liberty Section now is run by PHIL and MIKE GENOVESE
and that he did not doubt. that LA ROCCA still received

a piece'of this book. MAZZA stated that he had heard that
MIKE GENOVESE attended the Apalachin conference on behalf
of his brother PHIL GENOVESE and that the conference was
conducted to establish a new. boss. MAZZA declined to say
where this information. had come from and stated that he
could not deny or affirm its veracity. :

wove or on" BL \ LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES
, oa ; 24

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 4


G 3

PG 92-226

H. PERSONAL HABITS AND PECULARITIES .

No change is: noted under this caption.with exception

of the information hereinbefore set forth. that LA ROCCA

associates with a prostitute by the name. of FRANCES PRIAM.:
I. . GRAND JURY

On February 6; 1958, JUDD MECHLING, Deputy U. S. Marshal for

the Western District of Pennsylvania, at Pittsbur,

SA VOEGE that his office holds a subpoena for
for an-appearance before the Federal Grand Ju

upon this. but did advise that a
the home of

n this regard.
J. DESCRIPTION

Through observation, interview, and invescigat,

TJEK Law 101

sgrassbtgnasane-ssetossasitene

ion, JOHN
LA ROCCA is described as follows:
Race White
"Sex Male
‘Date of birth December 18, 1902
Place of birth Villa Rosa, Caltanesetta,
e Sicily, Italy e
Height 5'10"
Weight 200 lbs.
Hair Black, graying
Complexion Dark a
Eyes Brown
Present address 900 West Ingomar Road
Ingomar, Pa.
Past address 6426 Apple Street
Pittsburgh, Pa.
5 -2T-
|
: |
Ee ~ t
1
\ G2 BGVO-7 [WD 2-_ |

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 5


PG 92-226

Marital status
wife
Date of birth
Place of birth
Date of |
marriage

Son
Date of birth
Adopted

Brother
: Date of birth

Place of birth

Residence

Employed

Brother .
Date of birth

! : Place of birth ¥3

Residence

Employed

‘Naturalized
Brother

Address

Owner
Sister

Marital status

Children
Residence

0

Married,

MARY S, LA Rocca”
April 2, 1910
Jessup; Pa.

September 30, 1928,
Pittston, Pa.

JOHN LA ROCGA

October 1, 1943

TN HOWARD LESLIE HOFFMAN,
Bebruary 25, 1944

cat Greensburg, Pa.,

through Westmoreland Orphans
Geurt

ANTHONY LA ROCGA
May 14, 1
liskey Ri Endiana County
6323 Glenview Place
PAttspur,
Barber, 003 McKnight ‘Road,
Pittsburgh

JOS.

LA ROCCA

4, 1893

osa, Caltanesetta,
» Italy

836 Farragut Street
Pittsburgh

Barber, Pern and Shady
Avenues, Pittsburgh

" Gourt. of Common Pleas

Indiana Gounty, March 5, ‘lgey

JOHN J. LA ROCCA a
118-20 Walnut Street
Johnston, Pa.

Keystone Vending Co.
Johnston, Pa.

LEONA ROSE:
Widow

3

With daughter,Mrs. ANGELO
RICCI, Broadhead Rd.
Glenwillard, Pa.

-28-

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 6


PG 925226
INFORMANTS
INFORMANT CONTACTED BY
T-1 is AL BUCK, former SA WILLIAM R, WALL

Ta

T-5

7T-6

Allegheny County
Detective and Vice
President of the Fidelity
Trust Company Loan Dept.
Pittsburgh, (Oliver ~

an ‘
SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

Building)

is former PCI RICHARD SA J. EDWARD KERN
GATES .

is WILLIAM MEREDITH SA HAROLD L, STEVENS
SA of Bell Telephone, SA VOEGE

whose identity is being
concealed due to his position.

as JOHN PERHACH, investigator SA PATRICK A.
Diatrict Attorney's MUNLEY
Office, Broome County,

Binghamton, New -York

is Mrs. MARGARITS JACKSON,SA ROBERT E, HICKAM
South Western Bell

Telephone Company,

Hot Springs, . Arkansas,

whose identity is’ being

concealed due to her

position

is GEORGE M, KEEFER, SA WALL
Vice President, General

Manager, North. Pittsburgh
Telephone Co., Gibsonia,

Pa., identity being

concealed due to his

position

-30-

DATE
1/17/58
2/7/58

7/50

2/8

(2/22/58

1/16/58

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 7


PG 92-226

INFORMANT :

Ube G as VINCENT A, ROSELLA
owner, Gulf Service

- Station, . Larimer and
Meadow,, Pittsburgh,

CONTACTED BY

DATE

SA THOMAS G, FORSYTHE, III 1/14/58

= who- requested his identify

be: protected

7-8 is MARIAN FOGEL , PCr
2T1 N. Craig Street
Pittsburgh :

-9 is HAROLD W, LAUVER

: - INS investigator,
whe requested that his
identity. relative to
-certain information
furnished be concealed

{-10 18 ROBERT F, MEERLING
Agent in Charge,
Entelligence Division
ENS, 4th Ave, and «°

Market St., Pittsburgh

i T-11 is LEILA PATTON
~ Béll--Telephone ‘Co. 5
Wilkes-Barre; Pa.

SAS WALL and

* NORMAN T, THOMPSON

SA WALL

SA GENE H, STUDEBAKER

Philadelphia’ Agent ©
Unknown

-31-

1/15/58

12/10/57

12/12/57
BAe

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 8


PG 92-226
INDEX cd

NAME PAGE

Almono Sportsmen's Aegoeteescn - 26
AMATO, FRANK ~-- 17,21
ANTONUCCI, CARLA - 20
- ANZALONE, DOM -- 18,21,22
ANZALONE, DOMENIC 10,18,21,22
ANZALONE, DOMINICK 10,18,21,22
Arlington Hotel. --- 1515,25,26
BARBARA , JOSEPH, SR 1,13,14,15
BELLINI, "BOOTS* - 17
BRUSCO, JOSEPH - 2\
CANCELLIERI, JACK - 21
Capitol Bowling Alleys - 6
CAPONE, AL ~~--------- 1c
CASTIGLIA, IGNACIO 22
CHIODO, JOHN ----- 6
City Cigar Store - 5
CMELIK, JOHN 3
CMELIK, MARY 3
CMELIK, MARY oie
Coin Machine Distributing Company - 1,25 ,26
CONTI, ROSALIA ----------- 5:
' CONTI, ROSE (Mrs .) 7,29
DELSANTER , TONY .----- 20
Essex House Restaurant -- 5
FERRARI, CARLA (ANTONUCCI) - 20
FERRARI, DAN - 21,22
FOREMAN, JOE -- 19
Garrow - Evans Murder 20,21
GARROW, FREDDIE ------- 23
Genovese Cocktail Loungs 17,18,19
GENOVESE, MICHAEL JAMES - 16
GENOVESE, MIKE --~----- 7,19,23,24
GENOVESE, PHIL --- 19,24
GIBSON, CLOVER (Mrs.)- 14,26
GOLDBERG, MIKE --- 15
GRILLO, NORMA -- 19
Hite's Drug Store ---- 4
Jay's Equipment Company - 6
Joseph Horne Company 6
Keystone Cigarette. Vending Company 6
Keystone Vending Company ------- 5,6
: LA CAMERA, CHARLES RAY "RED" 14
% LA CAMERA, "RED" 4

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 9


DS fPasgeepeg.
“Diamond '7=7967" . SCARDINS. ') “october 20°.(2)) 0
oe , © 1620 Farrell Terrace “October. 28, pase
Seely Farrell, Pat : * November 16
ane aetieeeeeeeeeE » 2... + November 19 i

Regarding SCARDINA,, on. July i; 1957; CHARLES RAY "RED".
- LA: CAMERA (Pittsburgh: top hoodlum).‘advised SA PORTELLA: . ee ae
that.-he: was. engaged. in handling numbers and. bookmaking... <0 <2 ef

0h a small“scale- and that he would never get big in‘this). | -
endeavor. LA CAMERA said that in’the-Sharon-Farrell,." 9)
B., area, JOHN .SCARDINA was the/big. number's baron. and. ';°'.’

that ‘all others merely :worked- for SCARDINA 6. ees

_ ..On-January 27, 1958,: Mrs: CLOVER GIBSON; Secretary, and : =
*-MiBS LORENA SANDERS, Cler' 3, Velda Rose Motel, Hot Springs,"
Arkansas, advised: SA ROBERT 'E,: HICKAM. that ‘records of ‘that... ~
motel reveal that JOHNS. .LA, ROCGCA, 500 North Craig.. °° >
Street, "Pittsburgh, was registered ‘insthe Veld@ Rose ' :
Motel. on.October. 22, "1957, ‘with one .JOHN:SCARDINA, address:
not given’ and-departed-.on November 8,957. . Mrs. SANDERS: ™:...
advised that’ SCARDINA had made calls to Sharon,’ Diamond. 7-
7967, on Octobér'22,° 26; 30; and November? 63, 1957: oe

‘the’. following ‘call ‘was’ ade Prot Forest ase

SUBSCRIBER) DATES “CALLED.

“Apalachin: 6-271] JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. .” | October 2051957."
eee eee seed Eee : Apalachin, New" York. a : .

| JOSEPH ‘BARBARA, SR.,. 18 an @itiany: top ‘hoodlum. at whose. -”
lome the: Aphiachin ‘conference was held, ;) { * ‘ 7

~ f-4 furnished’ a list..of toll calls’ for the: period November.”
and: December, 1956 and January to November 1957, for:the =.

‘..telephofie. numbers Apalachin 62711; and ‘ADalachin : 22729; listed

_ for. JOSEPH BARBARA,” Apalachin,,-to SA “PATRICK “Ay MUNLEY.”

re Buieiostt

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 10


Bieql0e 296, aie lide Ute eee due CIEE Lied

It is noted: that. JEAN MANNARINO is the wife of. KELLY: MANNARINO ©
(Pittsburgh top hooldum)” haa attanded the ‘Apalachin conference’ ‘
in, ted York. ?

Z
\

ene LA ROCCA's association. with JOE ROA as was previously ©

set out- on January 14, 1958,. Father JOSEPH SHEETZ, Corpus
Christi. Roman Catholic Church; Pittsburgh,: advised SA

THOMAS .G;. FORSYTH, III; that he has in the past. on many
occasions had lunch or supper at: the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Avenue ;. Pittsburgh, and has on. sevéral of these

occasions: observed, JOHN LA ROCCA: in the company of. JOE . 2

-ROSA; MIKE: GENOVESE, .SAM. MANNARINO, and .KELLY MANWARINO.

On.: January: 14, 1958, TF, who. has furnished’ reliable infor-
mation in.the past advised that for the past: séveral years; /
LA POA has-been a frequeft visitor to the Genovese Lounge,.: -

_ Pittsburgh,’ and that at various .times..he has.observed, him
“4n the, company of sich individuals‘as FRANK AMATO, SAM

MANNARINO, JOE ROSA, KELLY MANNARINO, MIKE danoveis, ARCHIE ... |

‘NELSON and “BOOTS! BELLINI.

On " Janubry: 16, 19575 “Detective JOHN JAMES, Pittsburgh a
“Police Department, ‘advised SA FORSYTH of a confidential e
source who-recently told him that SAM MANNARINO, -KELLY- MANNA RINO, and

JOHN I LA ROCCA - had glose associations in Pittsburgh. rackets ..

Agent: ARTHUR RUSTON, , Internal Revenue (Service
(IRS), "Tax Unit, Binghamton, ‘New York, noted

‘Miss LORENA SANDERS, Clerk, velda Rosa. Motel; Hot springs;
furnished the following calls made by JOHN LA ROCCA ga he
dates ‘set forth. a : :

ar-

&

(6 £e ee

PK Law 11

\Seieceseeiinecs

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 11


c ©

PG 92-226

On January 14, 1958, JOSEPH BRUSCO, 207 Guyasuta Road,

Fox. Chapel, Pa.,was interviewed at his bar at 549 North

Homewood Avenue, Pittsburgh. BRUSCO allegedly had furnished
information’ to ANDREW J, SUSCE, former IRS collector; Pittsburgh,
regarding the number's activities of JOHN LA. ROCCA. .BRUSCO
advised that the information. he. had’ given in the past’ was

now “ancient-history" and: that at. the time he furnished

this information he did so only because he was: pressured

as regards to his own tneome: tax. BRUSCO said:he has ~

long since terminated his number's:.\business and has had

no further association with. number's writers in the Pittsburgh
area. BRUSCO stated he knew JOHN LA ROCCA but advised :he ,BRUSCO,
was'a..small time operator. “BRUSCO would neither confirm

or deny that he had turned his numbers into JOHN LA ROCCA.

BRUSCO was adamant at the time of interview and obviously
did. not.care.to furnish any information of any. kind.

On January 17, 1958, JACK MAZZA, retired city. detective,
advised that. the numbers; business in Pittsburgh is open

to anyone or any faction who is or are able to pay.off.

the police. MAZZA said that in no instance is the numbers.
business controlled by any one man‘or any alleged syndicate.
MAZZA said that in the days past JOHN LA ROCCA:had a. large
numbers business in’ the East Liberty Section of Pittsburgh,
but that-over'‘the course of ‘time he-has-entéred into a .
semi-retirément, “MAZZA said that. the biggest book in the
East. Liberty Section now is run by PHIL and MIKE GENOVESE
and that he did not doubt. that LA ROCCA still received

a piece of. this. book. MAZZA stated that he had heard that
MIKE GENOVESE attended the Apalachin conference on behalf
of:hisbrother PHIL GENOVESE and that the conference was
conducted: to establish a new. boss. MAZZA declined to say
where this information had come from and stated that he
could not. deny or affirm its .veracity. :

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 12


e)
PG 92-226

H. PERSONAL HABITS AND PECULARITIES

No change is: noted under this caption with exception
of the information hereinbefore set forth. that LA ROCCA
associates with a prostitute. by the name.of FRANCES PRIAM,

I, . GRAND JURY
On February 6; 1958, JUDD MECHLING,; Deputy U. §. Marshal for

the Western District of Pennsylvania, at Pittsbur, advised
SA VOEGE :that his office holds a subpoena for

MECHLING
upon this. but did advise that a deputy marsh 1, bas, wisited
the home of the subject at 7 E aw
DA

weg
dare any fur

urgh Office s thea

fi eit
tatomatien in this regard.

J. DESGRIFTION

Through observation, interview,..and investigation, JOHN
LA -ROCCA is described as follows:

Race
“Sex
‘Date of ‘birth
Place of birth

White “ a
Male -
December 18, 1902

Villa Rosa, Caltanesetta,
Sicily, Italy

Height 5'10"

Weight 200 lbs.

Hair Black, graying

Complexion Dark :
Eyes Brown

Present address 900 West Ingomar Road
Ingomar, Pa.
6426 Apple Street

Pittsburgh,. Pa.

Past address

~27-

Go GY Yb-?

Lihediate ly

JEK Law 10(a)2|

VAGI2)

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 13


\
PG 92-226
Marital status _ Married, eee
wife MARY S, LA. ROCCA™™
Date of birth: April 2, 1910 }
Place of birth: Jessup; Pa. |
Date of : foes freereese ee
marriage September 30, 1928,
Pittston, Pa. ees
Son putas “ JOHN. LA ROCCA : :
Date of birth October 1, 1943
Prierernce Adopted Tw HOWARD | era HOFFMAN
cS : February 25, (1 :
at Cheeebegeete a
through Westmoreland orphans
: court :
Brother ANTHONY LA ROCCA
, = Date of birth May 14, 1912
Place.of birth Whiskey Run, Indiana County ‘
wots “Residence 6323 Glenview Place - % Hl
ios Pittsburgh ie i
Employed Barber, 8003 McKnight Roads '
2 Pittsburgh {
Brother JOSEPH Ld ROCCA '
Date of birth August 4, 1893
Place of birth Villa Rosa, Caltanesetta,
. Sicily, Italy .
Residence 835 Farragut Street
Pittsburgh |
Employed _ Barber, Penn and Shady |
Avenues, Pittsburgh
‘Naturalized Court.of Commen Pleas |
Indiana County, March 5,.1924 |
Brother JOHN J. LA ROCCA
Lote Address. 118-20 Walnut Street
7 Johnston, Pa.
Owner Keystone Vending Co.°
Johnston, Pa. ~
Sister ‘LEONA ROSE
: Marital status Widow
Children 3
Residence With daughter,Mrs. ANGELO

RICCI, Broadhead Rd.
Glenwillard, Pa.

-28-

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 14


INFORMANTS
INFORMANT CONTACTED BY
{-1 is AL BUCK, former SA WILLIAM R, WALL
Allegheny County ; and :
Detective and Vice SA ROBERT A. VOEGE
‘President of the Fidelity
Prust Company Loan Dept.
Pittsburgh, (Oliver ~
Building
f-2 is former PCI RICHARD SA J. EDWARD KERN
GATES .
T-3 is WILLIAM MEREDITH SA HAROLD L, STEVENS
. SA-ef Bell Telephone, SA VOEGE

7-6

whose identity is being
ed due to his position.

is JOHN PERHACH, investigator SA PATRICK A.
Diatrict Attorney's MUNLEY’
Office, Broome County,

Binghamton, New York

is Mrs. MARGARITS JACKSON,SA ROBERT E, HICKAM:
South Western Bell

Telephone Company,

Hot Springs, Arkansas,

whose identity is’ being

concealed due to her

position

is GEORGE M, KEEFER, SA WALL
Vice President, General

Manager, North, Pittsburgh
Telephone Co., Gibsonia,

Pa., identity being °

concealed due to his

position

-30-

st 4

DATE
1/17/58
2/1/58

7/50

Aes

3/22/58

1/16/58

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 15


PG 92-226

INFORMANT: * ; CONPAGTED BE — Dane

SEXRORMANE . GONPAGTED BY DATE
T-7 44 VINCENT A, ROSELLA © SA THOMAS G, FORSYTHE,IZZ 1/14/58

owrer, Galf Service
‘station, Larimer atid
Meadows, Pittsburgh,
i who vequested his identify
H : be protected”

TB is: MARIAN FOGEL > PCY ‘SAS WALL and 1/15/58
; a71_N. Craig Street ® NORMAN.T, THOMPSON

Pittsburgh :
$-9 is HAROLD W. LAUVER SA WALL

"INS investigator,

whe requested that nid
identityrelative to
certain information —
farnished be concealed

T-10 8° ROBERT Fo MEHRLING SA GENE H,. STUDEBAKER 12/10/57
Agent in Charge, es
Entelligence Division” : : o

INS; 4th Avex and. «
Market St.» Pattsburen

T-11 48 LEILA PATTON : Philadelphia Agent” 12/12
» Bell Telephone. Co. 5 Unknown ; Baga
Wilkes-Barre 5~ Pa: :

-31-

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 16


PG 92-226

INDEX”
NAME _

Almono Sportsmen's Association ~
AMATO, FRANK ---~--~--~--~~-----
ANTONUCCI, CARLA -
ANZALONE, DOM -~-~
ANZALONE, DOMENIC
ANZALONE, DOMINICK
Arlington Hotel ---
BARBARA, JOSEPH, SR
BELLINI, "Boots" -
BRUSCO, JOSEPH - Ee
CANCELLIERI, JACK ~-
Capitol Bowiing Alleys -
CAPONE, AL ~~--------
CASTIGLIA, IGNACIO
CHIODO, JOHN ----- =
City Cigar Store -
CMELIK, JOHN --
CMELIK, MARY
CMELIK, MARY ---
Coin Machine Distributing Company
CONTI, ROSALIA --------------
CONTI, ROSE (Mrs.)
DELSANTER , TONY --
Essex House Restaurant -
FERRARI, CARLA (ANTONUCCL) -
FERRARI, DAN ~~~
FOREMAN, JOE ---
Garrow + Evans Murder
GARROW, FREDDIE --------
Genovese Cocktail Loungs
GENOVESE, MICHAEL JAMES -
GENOVESE, MIKE -
GENOVESE, PHIL -
GIBSON, GLOVER (Mrs .)-
GOLDBERG , MIKE -
GRILLO, NORMA --
Hite's Drug Store ----
Jay's Equipment Company -
Joseph Horne Company ---
Keystone Cigarette Vending Company
Keystone Vending Company ----
LA CAMERA, CHARLES RAY "RED"
LA CAMERA, "RED"

- 32 -

18,21,22
10,18,21,22
10,18,21,22
1s 15,25 336
1,13,14,15

NW 68262 Docld:32332899 Page 17

