NW 68261

ennedy Assassination
= ecards Collection Act of

‘992 [44 USC 2107 Note}.
ase#:NW 68261 Date:
0

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10317
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32243283 Page 1


AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE
DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

BROWN, CLAIRE, L.

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

. COMMENTS
Box #:1.

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

I

HSCA
180-10068

12/29/76
12

DENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

-10317

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

PRINTED FORM

U

3

P
07/07/93

Date:08/20/93
Page:1

| NW 68261

Docld:32243283 Page 2

~- ITEM IS RESTRICTED


7 eee hares
“(oo

BROWN C-4,

 @ cue

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

Néne at Employee

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES - . “BALANCE erouauT

FORWARD FROM

Aare PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD ; ECE RING VERE
fanoat :
 LFIT
“Kddress ~ YEAR
ANNUAL LEAVE,
——~Fisne Humber > oo es "29-76 CATEGORY
- Lo
Ora
™ Position Title :
: PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE oe de
tn reaper siesegiassaseeee 2.0 ACCRUED AVAILABLE USED :
Position Number Level Step wets 3 OQ THIS MONTH THIS MONTH THIS MONTH 3
Se
Pare ee : _DAY OF MONTH ; que Annual.| Sick | Annual sitk | Annuat | Sick E
rT sPaT sy eT iy s a] TOTit Ba 1475 [a6] 17 te [igs a0 25] 26] 27 [23] 29] 80] Si| Leave | Leave |. Leave Leave Leave | Leave

PINES

@ fog it 19 PRO [s S-

= 0.5 day annual leave
= 1.0 day annual leave
0.5 day sick leave °
1.0 day sick leave

0.5 day administrative leave

1.0 day administrative leave

= 0.5 day unauthorized absence’

1.0 day unauthorized absence
0.5 day leave without pay

1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature : Date
Uf employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Approved: e a
Clerk of the House ‘Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
“with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee’s official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I-

W 68261
1d:32243283 Page 3



~ CLAIRE L> BROWN H (703) 379-1379

5021 Seminary Road, #1i%4 - co
Alexandria, Virginia 22311 | Voting Residence: Georgia
CAREER OBJECTIVE . Va

To develop and improve communication, understanding, prograni: ing, and/or policy
between the Federal Government and State and local agencies and associations.

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY -

® Extensive experience evaluating and interpreting Federal education legislation
and regulations to determine the impact on State and local educational agencies.

® Congressional and Executive liaison to Senate, House, and education associations
responsible for analyzing and evaluating legislation and Federal regulations.

@ Related experience in curriculum planning and educational research and in library
and education programming on the local, State, and Federal level.

@ Reviewed with education association executives, the impact of pending legislation
on their interest group.

@ Five years experience as a public school librarian and teacher.

EDUCATION
Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia, 1965.

B.S., Ohio State University, 1969. (Education)
M.S., Boston University, 1970. (Library Science) (Audio-Visual Education)

* PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

PROGRAM ASSISTANT, Office of Libraries and Learning Resources, U.S. Office of Ed.,
Washington, D.C. Researched and analyzed completion reports, compiled statistical
information, and wrote a comprehensive national summary of public library con-
struction from Federal funds. (1976)

LIBRARIAN, Office of Career Education, U.S. Office of Education, Wash., D.C.
Implemented a resource center of available career education materials from all
over the U.S. Wrote annotated bibliographies of specialized materials on women
and on the mentally and physically handicapped. (1976)

CONSULTANT, D.A. Lewis Associates, Inc., Clinton, Maryland. Researched, wrote,
and developed contract proposals in response to U.S. Gov't. R.F.P.'s, particularly
in library and Indian education programs. (1976)

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Committee for Full Funding of Education Programs,
Washington, D.C. Served as principal personal assistant to the Exec. Dir. and
worked with him in.all phases of the operation. Worked as liaison with Executive
and Legislative branches of government for other groups interested in educational
funding (public schools, universities, libraries, handicapped, etc.) to coordinate
an effort for full funding of education programs on a Federal level. Initiated
legislative communications (phone § letter) to inform members and association
executives of pending bills. Attended hearings and meetings, reviewed and analyzed
Congressional Records and Federal Registers, and managed the financial records of
the Committee. Collected and organized bills, reports, and background materials on
pending education appropriations and budget legislation. (1975)

|| Nw 68261 mea
Docld:32243283 Page 4



pe

. ©) CEATRE L. BROWN PAGE 2

LANDLORD-TENANT INVESTIGATOR, City of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia.

Served as liaison between landlords and tenants in disputes, and as an authority
on Virginia housing regulations. Achieved recognition for outstanding negoti-
ations between a tenant and the Virginia Power Co. (VEPCO). Resolved problems
dealing with rent increases, utility bills, and the absence of landlord-tenant
contract-provided services. (1975)

STAFF ASSISTANT, Senator Herman Talmadge (Ga.), Washington, D.C. Helped to edit
the final volume of the Watergate Report, and assisted with bookkeeping concerns
. on the Watergate Committee. Drafted legislative correspondence for the Senate
f jAgriculture Committee in response to constituent requests. (1974)

ASSISTANT LEGISLATIVE AIDE § CASEWORKER, Congressman Gus Yatron (Pa.), Wash., D.C.
Investigated and responded to constituent concerns in legislation, and to their
problems with social security and:black lung disability benefits. (1974)

SCHOOL LIBRARIAN, DeKalb County School System, Decatur, Georgia. Achieved
recognition both locally and system-wide for implementing the "open-library"

and processing of materials. Member of curriculum planning committees for all
subjects, grades 1-7 and planned course curriculum content for library training.
Supervised, managed, and trained a large staff, analyzed school and community
needs, and held budget conferences with administrators. Designed and implemented
all policies within the library, prepared bibliographies, and conducted special
research projects for the principal and led seminars for librarians. (1970-1974)

GRADUATE ASSISTANT, to the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, School of
Education, Boston University, Boston, Mass. Collected and organized statistical
data used in evaluating various programs at the University, drafted and edited
documents, and served as coordinator for public relations activities in relation
to the University's centennial celebration. (1969-1970)

TEACHER, Columbus Public School System, Columbus, Ohio. Taught all subjects in
the inner-city to low-income 2nd/3rd graders. Worked with different Federal low-
income programs and officials, including ESEA, Title I, and Headstart. (1969)

ASSOCIATIONS AND HONORS

Georgia Association of Educators

American Library Association

Pi Lambda Theta, National Education Honor Society

Dean's List

Alumni Associations of Ohio State and Boston Universities

Member and active participant in the Smithsonian Institute and the Kennedy Center

HOBBIES AND INTERESTS

Travel, Current Events, Photography, Guitar, and Reading

References upon request

i4¥——____---—-

concept in media centers. Responsible for all reference, acquisitions, cataloging,

| NW 68261 oo
Docld:32243283 Page 5



LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
nicHARDSON PREVER, SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO.
= Gimsroetier 3. 0090, conn. NAMOLD 8. SAWYER, MICH.

coe peeaaten eo Select Committee on Assassinations

ROBERTA. EOGAR, PAL
N.S. entatibes

i (202) 225-4624 G.®. Mouse of Repres

3331, HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, O0.C. 20515

August 23, 1977

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director
House Select Committee on Assassinations
3342 House Office Building, Annex 2
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Professor Blakey:

Pursuant to our conversation of yesterday,
August 22, 1977, and my subsequent conversation with
Donovan L. Gay, Chief Researcher, of August 23, 1977,
I hereby tender my resignation with the House Select
Committee on Assassinations effective September 20,
1977.

i
i
\
|
|
i
\

I have enjoyed my work at the Committee and I
hope that my research as well as that of others will
aid in finding the truth and in bringing a satisfying
end to these investigations. a

Sincerely

CUnun X

Claire L. Brown

|
| NW 68261 Tos
Docid:32243283 Page 6



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION: FORM™

-..(Please-Use: Typewriter U:S. HOUSE OF -REPRESENTATIVES:>::::. (Any-erasures, corrections,or.changes

. . : _ o ‘on: this.form must be initialed by. the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington,:D.C. 20515" authorizing official:)

To-the Clerk’of the House of Representatives:

Lhereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)”, = s<-000.--2 . : Effective Date
Claire L. Brown 3 9/20/77
ef _. Employee Social-Security Number : va rope Type of Action
(© Appointment
: E Employing Office or Committee O Solory Adjustment :
ASSasSTHAL IONS IK) Terminotion (At close of business on effective. date)

‘(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

_Researcher ° $15,006

(If Committee Employee, ‘complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or [=] Professional.

2. F4 Special or Select Committee: Authority Ht: Res 192 =. of 28 Congress,

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete. item below.)

Position Number. if applicable, Level ..Step____

eee I certify that this: authorization .is-not in violation: of 2 U.S.C, oe prohibiting the employment: of

relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Official

pbuh s Stokes
“ Tye or print name of Authorizing Ofc)

Chairman

All appointments and salary. adjustments for employees under the: House Classification, Act:and for-Committee em-
ployees, except those. of the Committee-on Appropriations; the Committee: on. the Budget; and the Joint Committees, must:’
be approved. by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use. only:

Office Code...
Monthly Annuity $__________-00
Brae Copy for Initiating: Office or. Committee
_ _. _ — Soe

| NW 68261 oo =

Docld:32243283 Page 7



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i i itialed by th
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C: 20515 authorizing effican initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action: a) =
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~Eifective Date qi
Claire £. Brew S77 .
Employee Social Security Number . Type of Action 1
: D Appointment |
Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment | |

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$15,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [1 Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or (J Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authcrity—H. Res. 465 of 5H Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an-Officer-of the-House, ‘complete.item below.)

Position Number.

Step_._-___.

|. certify that: «this. “authorization. isnot. in.-violation: of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting’. the employment: of 6:4
relatives.

~All appointments-and.salary adjustments for employees under: the House Cla:
‘bloyecss except thosesof-the-Committee'on Appropriations, the “Committee on the’ Budget; ond the Joint Comininees; imiust’®
be approved by the Committee-onHouse Administration: > “

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

|
4
|
{
Office Code... 7 “* a sil
1

|| NW 68261 ae . _
ocld:32243283 Page 8
ig


al

NW 68261 - a 7

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ‘FORM

(Please Use Typewriter - U:S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (Any erasures, corrections, or. changes:

F chi on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~ Effective Date
Claire L. Brown 4/77
Employee Social Security Number. ; 2 Type of Action
prc 2 rr] CD Appointment
Employing Office or Committee Gi Salory Adjustment
Assassinations CO Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$30,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (J Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or‘[] Professional.

2. CkSpecial or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.._4

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House; complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step___2__-.

| certify that this authorization..is not in violation of 5 U:
relatives.

3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

All appointments and salary. adjustments for employees under. the House, Classification. Act and for Committee-em-

- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on-the Budget, and the Joint. Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House: Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use.only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Docld:32243283 Page 9



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

~ To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

. U:S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES »__.

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

‘on this form- must -be- initialed: by the ~

authorizing official.) * .
)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Claire L. Bravn VUaT7

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Select Committee on Assassinations

1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee 7 Salary Adjustment

( Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(IF type of action is an Appointment ‘or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

~ -* Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

(I Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

. £1 Standing Committee: Staff-[ Clerical of’ Professional.

[5] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Re:

3. [) Joint Committee. °

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number.

relatives.

| certify. that this authorization is not in viglation of 5 U.S:C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of -

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

an

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- -=

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropri
be approved by the Committee on House Administration,

APPROVED:.

ions, the Committee on the Budget, and=the Joint Committees, must’:

‘Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
i ZU,

NW 68261 ~

| Docld:32243283 Page 10

wk



, “Send Yo ae vn
| pucpue 5:1 4 DISTRICT UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION BOARD jj urn. 3.0. }t

Rev, 8/71 lr Dele

MAIL CLAIM

S.S. No. Claimant’s Name

PART ONE

“:1-@laim unemployment insurance benefits for the calendar week which began Sunday, De
19. ((o.__ and ended Saturday, Sens, a

For the calendar week shown above:
a. I was available for and actively seeking work _...---
b. I was physically able to work __..

¢. I claimed or was receiving education, training or subsistence allowance
from the Veterans Administration —_..

. d. I claimed or was receiving unemployment insurance benefits under another
Federal or State Law —

e, I claimed or was receiving a retirement pension or annuity

I was totally unemployed —__.
ft your cose item (f) is “Yes,” do not complete item (g) below.)

Oo
g. I worked (+~) fulltime (  ) part time and earned, before deductions, 34 ia

°2.\This claim is filed by mail because: ao
A . I became employed. Date of employment —.).0°_ iA. DALAM -

aia ‘Sale t Corunil!

| IMPORTANT: If you started to work during the calendar week claimed in item 1, you must have your employer com- |
plete Part Two below.

T'certify the above statements are true. I am aware that the law imposes penalties for false statements made in connec-
tion with this claim.

King
Address

*@laimant’ 's Signature

PART TWO

LOW EARNINGS REPORT—To be completed by the employer and delivered
to the claimant at his request.

1. During the CALENDAR WEEK beginning SUNDAY -----Dec...26,.-1976.

SATURDAY --h-1977____
this employee worked § FULL TIME [J PART TIME

His gross earnings payable before deductions, which include tips, cash value of meals, lodgings, and all other remunera-
tion for that week were $8

and ending

(NOT your payroll week, if different),

Ss

2

. If separated, enter date ____.

4. Employer's Name U.S “House of Rep:

and
Address Washington, D.C.

(hee tio

Feng official)

(Date) (Person who may be contacted) ‘{Phose No.)

NW 68261
Docld:32243283 Page 11



|
|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ropa : -

-(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES -, (any erasures, corrections, or changes

F i > n° this:-form: must: be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) a Washington, D:C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~ : Effective Date

BoE - _ Oeowis

aoe 2

4 Employee Social Security Number ‘ Type of Action

Appointment

< Employing Office or Committee OSolery Adjustment ~~ . :

(Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete-the following information.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary

ANY

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. F Standing Committee: Staff—[J Clerical or'_] Professional.

Special.or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [J Joint Committee. 5

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. _..If applicable, Level___.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. .3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. ~

{Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

All appointments:and salary adjustments for-employees under the House Classification Act cind- for Committee em-
ployees, except those ‘of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the-Budget, and the. Joint Committees, must ~
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: .__

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

| —
NW 68261 7 - —
Docld:32243283 Page 12 .



MEMORANDUM

“TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
‘the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law | \
son husband stepfather | \
‘ daughter wife stepmother. i
“brother father-in-law stepbrother t
| sister mother-in-law stepsister |
uncle son-in-law half-brother | —_
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister '

first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related ae

| I am related by the following relationship . |

CNnias x Protrr! 2,19
SYgnature of Employee Date

|) NW 68261 ol aaa
Docld:32243283 Page 13

