# docid-32334286

## Page 1

JFK Assassination Systern

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90114-10002

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 97-3244-315X1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/31/1960

28

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

26TH OF JULY OF MIAMI FLORIDA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32334286 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 97-268

CONFASENTIAL

3. Will contact J. R. Handbags of Florida, Inc.,

Swim Togs of Miami, Inc., and Miami Sportswear Company, Inc.

to determine the circumstances surrounding collections made,

if any, on behalf of subject organization at those concerns.

ADMINISTRATIVE

One copy of this report is being disseminated to

INS locally in view of the investigative interest of that

oftice in many individuals who are members of subject organization!

This report is being classified "confidential" since

information reported by confidential informants mentioned herein

if disclosed might result in the identification of these infor-

mants thereby compromising their future effectiveness.

Separate investigations are currently pending in the

Miami Office concerning JOSEPH M. PAULA and RANULFO SIERRA,

owner of the Pacific Photo Studio.' Also a separate investi-

gation has been instituted concerning the anonymous bomb threat

directed at Cubana Airlines on 4/29/60.

SAS WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN and WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN

observed the circumstances surrounding the departure of Cubana

Flights 809 and 811 on 4/29/60.

The pretext on 4/29/60, was conducted by Stenographer

ELEANORE M. SCHOENBERGER through anonymous inquiry.

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is ALBERT FRANCISCO PONS, PSI

(under development)

ITIAL

CONNO

- COVER PAGE -

LOCATION

97-268-102

x(4)

91-32441

NW 68262 Docld:32334286 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 97-268

GONFIDEA

IDENTITY

1IV0

LOCATION

MM T-2 is JOSE HERRERA, Manager,

Cubana Airlines, PSI (under

development)

Instant report,

page

3

MM T-3 is JOHN E. DIAZ, 3660 NW

14th St., Miami, PSI (under

development)

134-436-3

MM T-4 is GILBERT BARRERAS, PSI

(under development)

134-409

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and "T" symbols were utilized

only in those instances where identities must be concealed.

-C* -

- COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32334286 Page 3

---

