# docid-32296592

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10217-10368

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-306488-7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: OSI

FROM:. USDAO CARACAS

TO:

RUEKJCS

TITLE:

DATE: 02/09/1978

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: OBA, PRISON, HUNGER STRIKE, REPERCUSSIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/27/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redaet

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC ADMIN PAGE, DOC CHANGED TO 105-141949-219X

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC: 2107 Note). Case#:NW 66754

Date: 09.22-2022

NW 66754 Docld:32296592 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE THREE CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN

1. (XNFORN): [CONVERSATIONS WITH SOURCES 9 FEB 197S C

CONFIRMED THAT DRO •BOSCH HAS BEEN MOVED FROM JAIL TO

A MILITARY HOSPITAL BOTH SOURCES EXPRESSED DEEP CONCERN &

THAT THIS EVENT WILL TOUCH OFF A NEW WAVE OF TERRORIST

ACTS BY BOSCH FOLLOWERS AND SYMPATHIZERS AGAINST VE

ASSETS. THEIR PRIMARY CONCERN IS FOR CIVILIAN

AND MILITARY AIRCRAFI; PARIICULARILY THOSE OPERATING

IN THE US. BECAUSE BOSCH APPARENTLY HAS A HISTORY

OF HEART PROBLEMS THEY FEAR IHAT SHOULD HE DIE WHILE

IN IME HOSPITAL, ME MAY BECOME MORE OF A MARTYR, VE

WILL BE BLAMED AND REPROCÜSSIVE ACTS MAY BECOME EXCESSIVELY

VIOLENI•

2. (ONFORN): ADDITIONALLY THEY EXPRESSED HOPE

THAT US AUTHORITIES WOULD INCREASE PROTECTIVE

VIGILENCE WHERE EVER POSSIBLE.

3. MY NOFORN): THE VE AF C-ISO SUPPLY FLIGHI IO

MIAMI FOR 9 FEB 78 WAS CANCELLED TODAY. HOWEVER, THE

14 FEB 78 FLIGHT IS STILL SCHEDULED TO LAND MIAMI INTL

AIRPORT WITHOUT AN RON.

NW 66754 Docld:32296592 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE

IWOGONEIDENTIAENOFORN

8. REFERENCE: INITIATIVE, IR 6 902 8344 77.

9. ASSESSMENT: A 1

10. ORIGINATOR: USDAO CARACAS VE

11. EVAL REQUESTED: NO

12. PREPARING OFFICER: BILL RO KEELER, COL, USAF,

DATT

13. APPROVING AUTHORITY: BILL RO KEELER, COL, USAF, DAIT

14. SOURCE: A. SCI 6 902 0136, 3. SCI 6 982 010816

15. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: DIRC-NO, NOFORN CAVEAI

IMPLEMENTED DUE TO SOURCE IN UNIQUE POSITION.

16. SUMMARY: MENFORN THIS REPORI FORWARDS INFO

CONCERNING A HUNGER STRIKE THAT IS CURRENTLY BEING

STAGED BY DR ORLANDO SOCH, WHILE IN A VE PRISON. VEN

( SIRIKE BEGAN

4. FEB 78). THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE EVENI IS IN THAT

DR. BOSCH, HIS INCARCERATION AND MILITARY TRAIL YET TO BE

ANNOUNCED, IS SITED BY MIAMI-BASED ANTI-CASIRO CUBAN

GROUPS AS THE CAUSE OF RECENT TERRORISI ACIS, AND

CONTINUING THREAT AGAINST VE ASSESIS IN THE US

AND PUERTO RICO.:

22. DETAILS:

NW 66754 Docld:32296592 Page 3

---

