# docid-32298395

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10171

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4133-8TH NR 118

Releaned ander ate dear

i. Kerred:

Certeobier Ros ce 4932

MEE TB0 2007 Tabel.

2-24-292-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

FBI

WANNALL, W. R.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 09/25/1964

'PAGES:

- 3

SUBJECTS:

SPANISH VESSEL, SIERRA ARANZAZU, SUSP, SECRET

ORGANIZATION OF CONTINENTAL ACTION, MRR, LIAISON

WITH DOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65360 Docld:32298395 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Act 5(9) 12) 1D)

CONTAIMED

NATION

UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP

OTHERWISE.

SHOWN

LLANFOR

HEREIN

WHERE

Bir

IGNAL FORM NO. 10

501d

1902 EDITION

REG. NO. 17

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MemorandurDU

SEGRETI

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

CalLahan

Contad

W. C. Sullivan)

W. R. Wannall

_copies mader'i:

Ior review at FBIHQ by,

ASCA 3.14.38

ATTACK ON SPANISH VESSEL "SIERRA,

ARANZAZU, 9/13/64

NEUTRALITY

MATTERS

hand frant

1

15 Movimients

RecuperacioN

S32 2

IN CLOPAS

september 25, 19642 Fosen.

Mr a

Belmont

Miss Holmes

Mir o

Evans

NO OBJECTI

Mir. Sullivan

Liaison

HAS

ASSIFICATION A

sutlvan

Tave

Ttott

MT o

WannaN

ast Urgue

DOC

Mr. Nasca

=

Revolucion

CLASS

REASOX-FCIM IT

DATE DE REVIEW

Bureau

Source

Six

Massified

Secret"') has revealed that Spanish Ambassador to U.S: Merry del Val

had visited General

Marshall Carter, Deputy Director of Central

Intelligence agence fBI CIA

the previous day and next intended to visit the Director of the FBI.

has provided us a memorandum showing that on 9/22/64 the Ambassador met

with General Carter who referred to assurances given by Secretary of State

Dear a NSA late a Mil the sinking or captioned

vessel f

EST Source Six revealed that the Ambassador had a conference with

State Department officials, including Mr. John Crinmins, who is the

Coordinator of Cuban Alfairs, on 9/20/64 Following the conference the

Ambassador /

was told by a

State Department official that theinvestigation of the sinking of captioned

Spanish vessel was being carried out principally by the FBI in Miami and

Puerto Rico and that in this connection the State Department official had

an interview with Director of the FBI. In this connection, it may be

noted that Bureau representatives met with Crimmins in his

office at

State Department regarding this matter on the morning of 9/20/64 (memo-

randun dated 9/20/64 submitted) and the Ambassador was probably told that

State Department official had met with one of the Director's representa-

tives and not the Director himself. We have no information indicating

the Director has met with State Department official regarding this matter

Our memoranda in captioned matter dated 9/20 and 22/64 show

tha

at request of Assistant Attorney General Yeagley we are investigating

activities of an anti-Castro organization known as Secret Organization of

Continental Action (OSAC). This investigation was started last July®

Following the sinking of captioned vessel on 9/13/64, the OSAC claimed it

was responsible for the sinking and,

thus,

this incident since that time. "Crimmins on 9/20/64 advised us the

Spanish Government was most upset over the attack on its vessel and that

the U.S. Government agreed to cooperate in an investigation the Spaniards

are conducting. He asked if Bureau would object to his making available

alicials and we told him that we

(l interposed no, objection

1 to

The botan done so at its as eno

71 0CT 141464-

WRW : ams OCT

(3)

15 1964

CONTINUED -

NW 65360 Docld:32298395 Page 2

---

