JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90137-10053
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-111855-1
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE:
DATE: 06/15/1962
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
GEORGE SPELLMEYER
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA, CIA
COMMENTS: = MEMO

v9.1
NW 65360 Docid:32337287 Page 1

Date:

4/21/201


YEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

dee oetec ieee oe
SuNWED STATES Ge Cy ie Se
Memorandum oat
inn i ae
ro: MR. Dy Js BRENNAY) 1, pare; June 15, 1962 —
ea Ne

FROM : S, J. PAPICH{((]

supjecr: GEORGE SPELLMEYER;
FISHING| BOAT
TERESA Y JULIA"

: On June 14, 1962; Colonel R
Intelligence Agency tcray de _refeke
Agency NSA) message 3/ofeub}536-62
june 1962, This deal h_a_co

|concerning the granting 0:
eorge Spedt eyer, owner of
) NSA Ya-VfF- ple

=) GGotone1 Tallichet] advised that on June 14, 1962, CIA
< had rec®ived sensitive information covering communications within .
| the Cuban Government. One of these intercepted communications has i

‘a Cuban visa to aU. S.°citizen ng
the fishing boat .'Teresa y Julia.

disclosed that the aforementioned fishing boat was leaving Havana~ |

for the Isle of Pines (location of Cuban prison), alliche pointed(s}

iN out that it appears most unusual that a fishing bodt owned aU. S.
} citizen would be involved in such activity. GB)

s. aS The above information is being directed to the attenti
aa of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. Hifi wae eared

Me ESA,

tz)

sepy f
yr 1:1 - Mr. Wannall
Lider 1 - Mr. Nasca
i - Liaison
- Mr, Papich
aie 424855
K ar 4
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED meray /| (O62 —a
HEPELN IS UNCLASSLFEED EXCEPT t :
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE, ° va JUN 21 1962
am
EX115

, NW 65360 Docld:32337287 Page 2

NY Slee GeDMse >

Z

7

