# docid-32335172

## Page 1

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Canet:NE 64579 Date: 12-14-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90122-10043

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3395-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

AT

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/06/1961

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

NW 64578 Docld:32335172 Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

FD-36° (Rev: 12-15-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

DATE: 11/6/61

F BI

PLAIN TAXI

(Type in plain text or code).....

AIRMAIL

??"TAINED

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, ATLANIA (157-273)

"MINUTE MEN"

DATE 12.30, 813Y SPBBTAI

211,326

ROBERT BOLIEVAR DEPUGH, Aka.

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta and Kansas City dated

10/31/61.

Atlanta airtel to Bureau dated 8/14/61 captioned

"THE MINUTE MEN. RACIAL MATTERS."

The Atlanta Division has at the present time an

Informant AT 1655-0 (RAC) and a potential racial informant,

HAROLD A. ATKINSON, who are members of the Minute Men, an

organization headed by HARRY HART.

there has been, to date,

one meeting of the Minute Men in the Atlanta Division, this

being on the evening of 9/13/61.

Informants advised that those

present at the meeting were HARRY HART, HAROLD A. ATKINSON,

AT 1055-0 (RAC) and Dr. WILLIANS. COMPTON, Office address

6930 Main Street, Lithonia, Ga., residence 2730 Rock Briage.

Lithonia, Ga. At the meeting Hart advised that the Minute Mer

organization goes back to the Revolutionary War and was re-

established in 1942 at elther Chicago, Illinois, or Cleveland,

Ohio.

HART alleged a charter had been obtained for the organi-

zation but this charter was returned.

HART claimed he was one

of the ten men who re-organized the Minute Men. He claimed to

be one of the few who knew the top leader of the Minute Men.

HART claimed the organization 1s nation wide and uses couriers

to communicate for security reasons.

HART claimed all

coumunications were placed in sealed envelopes and sealed

with wax in three places. He claimed that at no time did the

Minute Men know what each other was instructed to do unless two

or more are to go out on the same mission.

HART described the

purpose of the Minute Men was to assist in bringing back to the

American people the öriginal Constitution.

He said 1s 1t takes

violence to get "these men out of office or out of the way then

violence will be used."

-p-/cciDent @askson tess 8/10/64

AIRTEL_

62-5395-5

TELET SEARCHED.

INDEXED TH

3- Bureau (RM)

A. M. SERIALIZEDA

2- Cleveland (RM)

A. 41. 5. D 4TOV 8 1961

-8-

2

Kansas City

(62-(797) (RM)

SPEC.

DEL EBL- NEW ORLEANS

New Orleans(RM)

Atlanta (2- 157-273)

(1- 137-9518) (AT 1655-C) (RAC)

RF.-

1-137-1455)

JIB:bel (13)

NW 64578 Docld:32335172 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AT 157-273

The only assigment given at the meeting was to

have Negro cemeteries checked as hiding places for concealed

arms. HART advised he had steel rods made to probe graves

of Negroes as the arms and ammunition are reportedly buried

approximately eighteen inches deep. HART said the Minute

Men must have arms and was in favor of a crossbow as it does

not make any noise.

HART Informed AT 1655-0 (RAC) on 8/14/61 that the

Minute Men are a group of men willing and able to do things.

He claimed the Minute Men had stopped integration in Miami,

Florida. He stated the Minute Men operate only in small

groups, never more than four men in a group, and the members

only knew the other members of his group.

He claimed the

Minute 'Men hold no meetings and have no meeting place.. He

mentioned a retired General or Colonel by the name of HUITON

and said he was oe of the directors.

He said the organization

was nation-wide and their purpose is to fight Communism.

claimed any members of the Minute Men who betrayed the organi-

zation would be killed. Initiation fee is $25.00 and dues are

$12.00 per year.

on August 23, 1961, HART advised AT 1655-C (RAC)

that the Minute Men had helped BUFORD SUTTON, former police

officer, Macon, Ga., escape prosecution in Macon, Georgia.

HART stated the hard core

of this organization

is the

"Minute

Men" and that "Minute Men Associates"are subordinate to them.

The address putting out the literature concerning the Minute

Men Associates is Minute Men Associates, 2850 East 117th Street,

Celveland 20, Ohio.

on 9/1/61 AT 1655-0 (RAC) talked with BILI ANDERSON,

a member of the Nacirema and ANDERSON furnished the address of

the Minute Men as 613 East Alton Street, Independence,

Missour1.

on 9/27/61 AT 1655-C contacted HART and J. T.

HENDERSON, Jonesboro, Georgia.

HENDERSON directed them to

& Negro cemetery located in Clayton County and had them check

three graves with a steel rod.

there by Negroes. AT 1655-0 furnished the names of two persons

Atlanta, Ga.,

died in 1959. •

-2-

NW 64578 Docld:32335172 Page 3

---

## Page 4

AT 157-273

Since this time, HART has been interested in learning

all he can concerning the

people who lte and work in the area

where this cemetery 1s located.

On 9/25/61 HART advised he had

learned from HENDERSON that about six men in a car with a

Tennessee Tag and a pickup truck had brought one of the bodies to

the cemetery.

HART claimed this made sense, since he had learned

from a member of the Minute Men that the burial of the arms was

supervised from Mount Eagle, Tennessee.

J. T. HENDERSON has

since indicated a desire to Join the Minute Men and has furnished

his $25.00 initiation fee, but as of this date has not been sworn

HART has indicated he would like AT 1655-C (RAC) to be his

HART furnished AT 1655-C (RAC) a letter with letterhead

entitled "Minute Men Associates" 11808 Buckeye Road, Cleveland

20, Oh10. The letter was dated July 27, 1961, and addressed to

Mr. KENT CURTNEY, Post Office Box 4254;.

New Orleans 18, Louisiana.

The letter was reportedly sent by LOUIS G. MARTON and makes

reference to a meeting held in Washington, D. C., on the 13th,

month not named, and sets forthhis reactions concerning the

meeting.

The letter alleges all actions of the Supreme Court of

the U. S. have been null and void since 10/24/45 and the U. S.

has had no legal Government of any kind since that time.

letter urges the establishment of a "mighty, patriotic Army of

• that

Minute Men" to restore to the U. S. Its lost constitutional

liberties and its national independence.

On 10/12/61 HART advised AT 1655-C (RAC) that he now

had in the Atlanta area approximately 57 groups. HART has told

the informant that a group of five men make up a unit but at

one time told the informant that they had as many as 25 men in

a group but that no more than five of these men met together.

HART claimed he felt he would soon get some sealed orders from

headquarters and claimed he had been given another state and would

have more to do. HART claimed he had not received any money for

expenses and hoped they would soon send him some as he was not a

rich man. HART indicated that they would soon have 20,000 to

30, 000 men.

HAROLD ATKINSON has advised that he had been designated

to work with dr. COMPION in searching grave yards for arms which

had been reportedly buried by the Negroes. He advised Dr. COMPTON

has always found excuses not to go and he doubts COMPTON 1s

serious. He stated HART told him the Minute Men were made up of

groups never over four or five present at a meeting and these

meetings are being held all over the United States.

!..

- 3-

NW 64578 Docld:32335172 Page 4

---

## Page 5

AT 157-273

HART advised ATKINSON he was expecting a man from

Orlando, Florida, to bring instructions.

He stated the head

of the organization is a retired General from the U. S.

Army and all members carry .410 gas guns.

HART told him

they were to get a little club to carry that costs $25.00

and this club had a .410 gbell in each end.

HART has talked

to him about killing some judges and prominent people using

the crossbow as this could not be traced.

On 9/11/61 HART told AT 1655-0 (RAC) that the Minute

Men Assoclates of Cleveland, Ohio, are a front for the Minute

Men and this organizations activities are not secret. He

Men got carnato to

said Minute Men Associates are hot the hard core which is

He indicated the purpose of the Minute

Men Is to eliminate certain leaders or anyone, in fact, who

Is standing in the way of returning this government to

a man who has been in the

constitutional government " "racketg"

He claimed the Minute Men had

and he has been selected

to fly to South America and bring back a rare deadly poison,

more deadly than curare.

This poison will be used to eliminate

enemies of the Minute Men leaving no trace in the blood.

HAROLD A. ATKINSON advised HART has contacted him coneerning

a meeting which was to be held sometime during the week of

11/6/61.

He stated HARt told him that he was being

considered as the person to be delegated to do away

with one

of the political leaders in the Atlanta area. HART told him

it would either he him or another member to do the job.

He

claimed ATKINSON would be well-paid for this task by the

Mayflower organization.

HARD did not expand any further

concerning this activity but stated he was not a member of the

Mayflower organization.

It is noted the indices of the Atlanta

Division fails to reflect any reference for the Mayflower

organization. ATKINSON is associated with HART in attempting

to sell subscriptions to the Metropolitan Newspaper, Inc.,

a newspaper HART is allegedly attempting to organize.

ATKINSON states HARI does not have any presses and has been

using the money obtained through subscriptions and the sale of

debentures to pay his personal bills. ATKINSON 1s of the

opinion the Metropolitan Newspaper,

Inc., Will never ge

to press.

He feels the Minute Men organization may just

be another scheme of HART's to gain money for his personal

benefit and that no such organization actually exists.

The Atlanta Division does not feel that it is in

a position at this time to make a recommendation concerning

opening a case under the racial Matters caption concerning

the Minute Men.

It is felt that additional Information will

be developed at the next meeting of the Minute Men or in the

- 4 -

NW 64578 Docld:32335172 Page 5

---

