"NW 68261

ce

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10301 '
ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecards Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 [44 USC 2107 Note).
aset: NW 68261 Date:
Lt it}

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 11

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponement: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32243267 Page 1


é Date:08/20/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10301

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE
PAGES

05/16/77
11

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BACETZ, CONRAD E.

| DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
| CLASSIFICATION : U
| RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box #:1.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

"NW 68261
Docld:32243267 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FpoM ~ ; . rs
(Please Use Typewriter. x“ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i F on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C.,20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective.Date 4 {
i
Conrad £, Baetz ° Gecember 1, 1978 7; 3
Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action :
390~44-8227 O Appointment \
i Solory Adjustment \
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date) ad
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending 4
close of business___ {

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

{
3
3

i Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
$32,800.08

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. © Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or C1 Professional. a \

= . , :
2. Fl Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 220. of "congress. 5
3. 1 Joint Committee. 2

(If Employee of an’ Officer of the House, complete item below.) pouty
Position Number_________-_-___. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______. e
4
| certify that this- authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of A
relatives. - penta ;
y
a--- 4
(Signature of Authorizing Official) 2
LOUIS STOKES a
Type or print nome of Authorizing Official) d
Chatraan 3

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ‘ F
ployees,.except those of the Committee on.Appropriations, the Committee on. the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must a |
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Weise aso

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

| Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

bisa 2 ee at

NW 68261 rs
Docld:32243267 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter { U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,» (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 catherine officals initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: -

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-lMiddle-Last) Effective Date j
Conrad E. Baetz L 12/31/78 Jogi
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action i

OC Appointment . \
} ADD mb free P27 Cl Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change 4

Termination (At close. of business on effective date)

Assassinations C Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business.

Specily Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) |
Position Title Gross Annual Salary* ‘

{

* if employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office. |
]

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or O Professional. q \

2.301 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res956__c?5£H Congress. q

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___.-_-_- If applicable, Level_______. Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Type or print nome and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act.and for Committee em:
Ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

(Revised: August 1, 1977),

NW 68261 - - = -
Docld:32243267 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

Washington,

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

© US. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES.)
, DC. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Conrad E. Baeta

October 1, 1973

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

39045-4227

Cl Appointment
CE salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Oi Title Change

Assassinations

Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)
O Leave without pay (Beginning

h effective date above: and ending

close of business___.

‘Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title

Change, complete appropriate information: below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

$26,800.00

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives),
plus the salary received from the employing office.

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

3. O Joint Committee.

or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 2° of 95th gress,

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

relatives.

i Date. _Getober 16

Step______..

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of

[ype or print na
Chairman

All_ appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification. Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those. of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

| NW 68261

Docld:32243267 Page 5



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk. of the House of Representatives:

Uhereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections,.or changes
‘on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Conrad EB. Baetz

March 1,

1972

Type of Action

Employee Social Security Number
390~44-4227 :

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

O Appointment

3BizSolary Adjustment

© Title Change

O Termination (At close of business on effective date)
D Leave without pay (Begi

close of business__.

jing with effective date above and ending

‘Specify Bate

(If.type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information. below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

Stati Investigator

$24,000

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, O Standing Committee: Staff—O] Clerical or 1 Professional.

2. ©),Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. 0 Joint Committee.
\

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

relatives.

Date___s

- Elf employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

|. certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C: 3110(b), prohibiting: the employment of

, All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint. Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._
Office of Finance use only:
Office Code...
Monthly Annuity $__________00 asof_
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Nw 68261
Docld:32243267 Page 6



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION’ FORM: ~~

(Please'Use Typewriter.“ << US, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES -- (Any ‘erasures, corrections,’ or changés”

5 . on i, on this form: must be initialed. by the
‘or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To. the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last). : 8 -. Effective Date
Conrad E. Baetz 8/1/77
Employee Social Security Number : 7 * Type of Action: , us
390 44 4227 ; C1 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee ~~ Sclary Adjustment ae
Assassinations Committee ( Termination (At close of business on effective date}

(If type-of action.is an Appointment or Salary ‘Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff Investigator $22,000.00

ee ey:

(If Committee Employee; complete. appropriate item: below).

1. EJ Standing Committee: Staff—[J Clerical: or [5] Professional. -

#]

28

Special or Select Gommittee: Authority —H. Res...

3. LJ Joint Committee. o

(lf Employee of an Officer. of the House, complete item below.) : . . ~

Position- Number_. _If applicable; Level__ Step. os.

ol certify that this authorization is not “in violation of: 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment: of
relatives. : :

August 16,1977

(Gignoture of Authorizing Officio

" LOUIS”’STOKES |

j
All appointments and-salary adjustments for employees under the House Classific:
ployees, except those of the Gommittee on Appropriations, the Committee on: the - Budget, andthe Joint Committees,:must-? }
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. . j
3
APPROVED:.__ i
4
Office of Finance use only: |
4
Office Code. 4
Monthly Annuity $_______.__.00 d
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
Fee ne —
in a
Nw 68261 a --

Docld:32243267 Page 7


MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom: Howarth _ H

FROM: G. Mrert Blakey i
DATE: August 15, 1977 |

SUBJECT: Salary Adjustment

This is to authorize an increase in salary

to $22,000 for Conrad E. Baetz.

tw 68261 = ;
Docld:32243267 Page 8 |


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES «_- (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

a t st be initialed by thi
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D:C.20515 . ag ta ls rar ast initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of nepresintatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

2 =

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Conrad E. Baetz : BfVAT7 ~ - 5 i
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action E
390 44 4227 3) Appointment ) \ ry
Employing Office or Committee O Salary Adjustment : he |
Assassinations =! (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff tnvestigator $29,309

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. CJ Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or'L] Professional. :

2.2

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.”

3. [] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number, If applicable, Level_

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of
relatives. . 7

‘Member, District and State)

_ All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those-of the Committee on‘Appropriations, the’ Committee on the-Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.__

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

1 ee

Nw 68261 mene eee
Docid:32243267 Page 9


“OFFICE: Edwardsville 692-4433

NW 68261

SN

Sy RECEIVED cout sl
Plott wav 19 MATE 4

use SELECT
JOHN MABINTE ORE SESSNATINS

SHERIFF OF MADISON COUNTY
EDWARDSVILLE, ILLINOIS 62025

May 16, 1977

Mr. Stephen Fallis

Select Committee on Assassination
House Annex:No. 2

United States House of Representatives
400 Second Street, S.W.

Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Mr. Fallis:

I have been advised by Ms. Sheila Lee, Staff Counselor, Select
Committee, to communicate with you regarding possible employment
by the committee. °

Ms. Lee inquired as to my availability for possible full-time
work with the Select Committee. I advised her because of my per-
sonal situation here, what with building a new house, etc., it
would be extremely difficult for me to relocate to the Washington
area’ for an-extended period of time.

However, I talked with Ms. Lee this morning and a suggestion was
made that I possibly could come to Washington and work for the
committee on a trial thirty-day period. This would give me the
chance to evaluate the situation and give your organization time to
evaluate me and my performance.

Should you wish to consider this type of arrangement, please ad-
vise and we shall explore this situation further. Qn that basis,
I will withhold any questions regarding salary, expenses. etc.,
until such time as you indicate whether the suggestion is amenable
to your particular operation.

Thanking you for your time and attention.

Sincerely,

Conrad Baptz a

CB:rt
ee Ms. Lee

MEMBER

MEMBER

SELON,
Fears FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE IN LOCAL SELF GOVERNMENT
es

\“Docld:32243267 Page 10

4 Sa)
oily


: OFFICE: Edwardsville 692-4433

NW 68261

Docld:32243267 Page 11

ELECT.
a OUST SiS |ATIONS

orrice br:

JOHN peer
SHERIFF OF MADISON COUNTY
EDWARDSVILLE, ILLINOIS 62025

May 16, 1977

Mr. Stephen Fallis

Select Committee on Assassination
House Annex No. 2

United States House of Representatives
400 Second Street, S.W.

Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Mr. Fallis:

I have been advised by Ms. Sheila Lee, Staff Counselor, Select
Committee, to communicate with you regarding possible employment
by the committee. .

Ms. Lee inquired as to my availability for possible full-time
work with the Select Committee. I advised her because of my per-
sonal situation here, what with building a new house, etc., it
would be extremely difficult for me to relocate to the Washington
area for an extended period of time.

However, I talked with Ms. Lee this morning and a suggestion was
made that I possibly could come to Washington and work for the
committee on a trial thirty-day period. This would give me the
chance to evaluate the situation and give your organization time to
evaluate me and my performance.

Should you wish to consider this type of arrangement, please ad-
vise and we shall explore this situation further. On that basis,
I will withhold any questions regarding salary, expenses, etc.,
until such time as you indicate whether the suggestion is amenable
to your particular operation.

Thanking you for your time and attention.

Sincerely,

Conrad Baptz

CB: rt
ce Ms. Lee

MEMBER

LEON,
ae FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE IN LOCAL SELF GOVERNMENT
Bs

RECEIVED COUNTY JAIL:

692-4422


fw 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

i yroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairi

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If.
off

SS 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 .1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

~ “Signature of

Docld:32243267 Page 12



y
| NW 68261

MEMORANDUM ay,

TO: Mr. Blakey

FROM: Robert J. Lehner

DATE: July 20, 1977 wont pul

SUBJECT: Conrad, Baetz - Investigator

Mr. Baetz has agreed to take a position with us as
Staff Investigator assigned to the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Task Force. After an initial period here reviewing the case,
he will be assigned to the Missouri-Illinois area.

He will start on August 1, 1977 at $20,000.

RIL: ek

Docld:32243267 Page 13

