| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32243277 Page 1

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

‘992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
asett:NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10311
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 3

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95


aad Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10311

RECORDS SERIES
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 06/17/77
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA

7 COMMENTS :
Box:1.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docld:32243277 Page 2


|

_ - es

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM- . - :

(Please Use Typewriter ~ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C? 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, corrections; or changes :"'~

on this form must be-initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

__ Effective Date

George Robert Blakey WUT

Employee Social Security Number. vee

Type of ‘Action

CD Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Salary Adjustment

5 Select Conmittee on Assassinations

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment.or Salary Adjustment, complete the following;infiormatién.) -

Position Title 7""F Gross Annual Salary

Chief counse? aand Director $4],

566.00

Gs

(If Committee Employee, completeappropriate iter: belo

1. C1 Standing Committe’

2. [A] Special or SelectiGommittee: Authority

3, [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of thé’ House, complete item below.)

Position Numbéé: ._2..Iapplicable, Level_ Step__ a1.

nN
F 5 weg e oN

\.certify that this authorization is: not--in--violation® of 5

relatives.

Charman

-All.appointments and salary adjustments foremployees under the-House-Classification*Actvand for Committee “em:
ployees, except those‘ of the:Committee‘on’Appropriations, the Committee ‘onthe Budget; and the Joint Committees, mus!

be approved by the Committee on House ‘Administration.

APPROVED:

€: -3110{b),

{Type oF print nome of Authorizing Official)

prohibiting the employment of

Office of Finance use only: .° : .
Office Code___.

Monthly Annuity $__ 20. 00

an ae = _ —

NW 68261
Docld:32243277 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM.

(Please:Use’ Typewriter - “U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES » (Any-erasures, corrections, or.changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 sutherzing atc)” initialed. by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
George Robert Blakey 6/17/77 '
Employee Social Security Number a Type of Action

Appointment

Employing Office or Committee. - O Salary Adjustment

(Termination (At close of business on effective date)

: Select Coumittee on Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary i

Chief Counsel and Director $27,960.00

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or’f-] Professional.

Congress. 1

3. [1] Joint Committee. '

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

_Position Number. If opplicable, Level_ Step:

L certify that..this authorization.:is not -in- violation - of 5. U.S.G. 3110(b); prohibiting: the employment. of
relatives. _ va

ee ae

Dote June 24

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

ication-Act and for.Committee -em-
|-+ -ployees, except those of. the Committee on Appropriations, the Eommittee: on: the Budget; and the Joint -Committees,:must
be approved by:the. Committee on House-Administration:

-- All:appointments‘and salary:adjustments for employees. under. the House Clas

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only: -- : . |
Office Code i
Monthly Annuity $_____.._.00 : |

7 ~ i
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee i
4

| NW 68261 ae 7
| Docld:32243277 Page 4 : :


NW 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: _ Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and ‘date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

1a am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

Ley btehre, _ b-ae-22
Signature of Employer Date

' Docld:32243277 Page 5

