# docid-32336917

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10312

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82298-129

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/18/1961

80

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USA, CIA

COMMENTS:

RPT; REFERRED TO USA

released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

Sia. Bate: 11-17-2122

19.1

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2102

LEADS

MIAMI

SECRET

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1) Will maintain contact with RAFAEL HUGUET,

Blue Bay Motel, 19th Street Causevay, Might, Florida, for

information concerning the subject.

2) Will interview MERCEDES GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

1332 Northwest Second Street, Miami, for information con-

cerning her brother, the subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report is classified "Secret" in view of the fact

(1) it contains information from the New York Office fur-

nished by MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEL RAMOS, PSI Of the New

York Office, with possible double agent potential, dis-

closure of such intormation might possibly prejudice future

effectiveness of SANCHEZ (2)

The report contains informa-

tion furnished by ONI and the ClA, both of which agencies

classified the information submitted as "Secret. "E

(4)

It is to be noted the San Antonio Office advised

in connection with its interview of the subject on Febru-

ary ,14, 15, and 16, 1961, that the subject appeared com-

pletely co-operative during the interview and at no time

refused to answer questions. It was further stated by

San Antonio that it was the opinion of the interviewing Agents

that subject probably told the truth with regard to the bulk

of the information furnished by him and if he did distort any

information, it would have been in connection with his acti-

vities in Europe during the Summer of 1960 and his alleged

connections with anti-Franco and anti-SALAZAR activities.

(COVER PAGE)

SEER

minion.

19.11

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-2102

StEitt:

San Antonio cautioned, however, that it did not

feel that it was possible to make a definite statement

as to the authenticity of the information furnished by

the subject or whether or not subject and his group are

bona fide defectors from the CASTRO regime. It is noted

by the San Antonio Office that subject and all members

of his group positively expressed their desire to actively

oppose CASTRO, not by forming political groups in the

United States, but by returning to Cuba and providing

actual military opposition to the present Cuban Government.

The San Antonio Office pointed out also that in

view of the fact that Captain WOODROW Y. CHIN, CIC, Fort

Hood, Texas, headed a special team of investigators inter.-

viewing the subject for a period of almost three weeks con-

cerning military matters, the San Antonio Office did not

dwell upon these matters and Captain CHIN advised San

Antonio that results of his interrogation would be disseminat-

ed to the Bureau.

INFORMANTS

Informant

MM T-1 is ADRIAN NARANJO,

PSI (Under development)

(ex-employee of Cubana Airways,

Miami), contacted by SA JOHN E.

McHUGH

Location

*(U)

Instant report, page

(COVER PAGE)

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-2102

Informant

MM T-2 is MIGUEL ANGEL

SANCHEZ RAMOS, PSI, New York

Office

MM T-3 is OBIDIO MORENO, Pan

American Operations Office,

Miami Airport (By request)

MM I-4 is 492-S, contacted

by SA JAMES D. HAYES

DEClASSIMiD

Location

Miami file

105-2102-134

Miami file

105-2102-102

Miami file

134-44-Sub A 84

Miami file 105-2102-146

Miami file 105-2102-138,

Serial 166

MM I-6 is Legat, Madrid

letter dated 2/17/61, and

letter 3/14/61.

Nu I-218 CIA 7(3) (4)

MM T-

Department of the

Air

Force & (54 (u)M

A SETTER)

MM T-9 is Legat, Paris, letter

1/11/61

MM I-10 is JUAN MACHADO,

PSI - Cuba, (Contacted by

SA WILLIAM G. FRIEDEMANN

MM T-11

is G-2

dated 2/16/61]

Army report

REVIEWICO 30

ON

9115728 gr

RELEASE iN AAL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

BASA FUNCE

-D

-

(COVER PAGE)

Miami file 105-2102,

Serials 153, and 157

Miami file 105-2102,

Serial 157

Miami file 105-2102,

Serial 157

Miami file 134-539-A 18

Miami file 105-2102,

Serial 160

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-2102

SECRET

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "T"

symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal their

identities.

(U)

Other informants and sources contacted who were

unable to furnish any information concerning the subject

were:

The following informants who have furnished

reliable information in the past were contacted on the

dates indicated and could furnish no information concerping

the subject:

SJ 440-S, contacted by SA SAMUEL H. PIERSON, JR.

on March

6, 1961.

SJ 460-S, contacted by SA SAMUEL H. PIERSON, JR.

on March 7, 1961.

SJ 462-S, contacted by SA SAMUEL H. PIERSON, JR.

on March 6, 1961.

SJ 466-S contacted by SA EUGENE L. PAYNE?, on

February 24, 1961.

PSI JOSE M. TORO NAZARIO, contacted by

SA SAMUEL H. PIERSON, JR. on March 3, 1961.

PSI RAFAEL ALBERTO ARVELO GONZALEZ, contacted

by SA EUGENE L. PAYNE on March 6, 1961.

San Juan indices contain no information concerning

the subject not already in possession of Miami.

(u)

(и)

• Exa

(COVER PAGE)

A Crazil

d0lRa215

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-2102

THE : ush

-SECRET!

On January 26, 1961, MM To, an individual

formerly an official in the Cuban Government, who has

numerous

acquaintances in the Latin American element

In Miant and other Latin-American countries, advised

that the subject had been active in selling bonds in

Cuba for the

"Iiberation of Spain." MM To said that

the subject's family, including his grandfather, are

believed to

be fanatic commists, and according to

MM I-L, GUTIERREZ's mother 1s described as more com-

mnistic than her son. ou

On January 27, 1961, ALEXANDER

'RORKE, JR.9

who gave his

address as

2080 Southwest 6th Court, Miami,

Florida, sent a telegram to the Federal Bureau of

"Investigation, protesting the aduission of the subs

ject and his group

to the United States claiming that

subject and others

were responsible for his imprison-

ment without charges for nine days in Cuba in August,

1959.

RORKE claimed he was shot at, abused, and subo

jected to round the -clock interrogation and

"brain?

washing attempts" when seized while on network TV

news assignment.

• 5

SECRET,

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

MM

105-2102

THE : GK

and was trying to escape, of he might be a political op

portunist trying

to switch sides In time, or he may have

been sent to the U.S. to conduct espionage or to infiltrate

anti-CASTRO movements in Miami.

ANUI DECLASSITIED bY DOS

+N 3-19-98-5201K5

On March 7, 1961, MM T-8, another Government 5-14-98

A fired, agency which conducts

intelligence investigations,

"ad-

PARA I PER THEIR

OST DECLASSIND vised that it had received Information Irom a reliable

(JFK)

source who stated that according tolan official Portu

9/15/98 TR

guese servicet /the subject contacted a Chinese named LING,/

HowevER 1050.

EMINATED FROM

LIND-SEY, who is

also known by the names of

LIN LIAN-SHU. and

CIA AND FER

LINDSEY LING YEH, im August, 1960, In Santa Maria, Azores

DEVAS PEERLEMM. TO said that

LING currently resides in Madrid, Spain

midentified Chinese who reportedly supplied clothing to

one Bank where he mages a rescamont allegedly uned by another;

U.S. personnel at Lajes Base in the Azores:

FICATION

that LING is one of several Chinese suspected of

using business ventures as cover for espionage of other

Lilegal activicles.

MM T-8 also said that a man named

IHEODOR HEINZ WIENEK Was a business associate of LING,

and that he was arrested in the Azores in December of 1958

on suspicion of espionage As of September, 1960, WIENER was

reportedly in Bermuda.

According to MM T-9, a confidential source abroad,

LING was born on March 129122dEeк1e

China.

He

established a clothing business in Spain where he works on

American bases He represents Lang Chong and Company,

custom tailors,

Ind Floor, OlKwan Building, Hong Rong.

LING 18 in business relationship with SAMUEL ON MING CHUN.

Both belong to a financial organization established by the

Peoples Bank at Shangha for the purpose of obtaining cap

ital of Chinese living abroad, and channeling these funds

back to China

LING was in contact with HEINZ THEODOR WIENER.

AlsO, according to MM T-9, Lang Chong and Company

reportedly established a bank in San Francisco during the

early part of 1960 under the name of Lang Chong and Company,

Bank of Canton.

• 56 .

105-81298-129

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

MM 105-2102

MM T-9 also advised that HEINZ THEODOR WINNE

a confederate of LING, apparently 1s a German.

On February 23, 1961, MM T-6, a confidential

source abroad, advised that certain Chinese merchants

In Spain ar

eported to be sending American dollars to

Red China

By letter postmarked March 8, 1961, PAUL MORAN,

1610 - 28th Avenue, Tampa, Florica,

advised that he was

the President of the anti-Communist Aid Committee for

the Liberation of Cuba, and also was a delegate of the

Monte Cristi group in Tampa which was affiliated with

the Democratic Revolutionary Front.

The Democratic Revo-

lutionary Front (FRD) was the overall anti-CASTRO directing

group in South Florida. MORAN furnished the following infor

mation:

Cx(4)

"I have been informed by my good friend,

MI. RENE DECHARD, eX-Consul General OF cuba 10 Lampa

and now in exile in Miami, that Commander ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO is being held in the Immigration De-

tention Headquarters in McAllen, Texas, for question-

ing

I am sure that information I possess will aid

the authorities in their duty to do true justice. *u)

1332M.

"Commander ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO is an inde-

fatigable fighter for democracy and a fervent anti-

Communist. The Committee which I head had the honor

of aiding

him when he was fighting against the BATISTA

dictatorship in the mountains of Escambray. After-

wards, he didn't accept any position in the government

of FIDEL CASTRO and acted only against the abortive

Dictator TRUJILLO and other BATISTA assassins

to invade Cuba. He did this to save many Cubans from

death and bécause he is

an ardent defender of democracy.

*(u)

"Through my good friend, MI. RENE. DECHARD, I

have been informed that although Commander GUTIERREZ

MENOYO attended several government functions, he

(Xu)

: =1

• 57

Checker my

In LARGMAR

SECRET

105-82298-129

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM

105-2102

THS : GK

ISECRET

On March 14, 1961, MM T-6, a confidential source

abroad, stated that according to information put out by

Cobon 1 RACON BARQUIN LOPEZ, who was residing in Madrid

the subject held lengthy conversations with

SPr./:

at the time and who headed a Cuban arms purchasing com-

mission in Europe. 'MM T-6 said that Colonel BARQUIN

spent time in jail during the regime of former Cuban

President FULGENCIO BATISTA for a plot against BATISTA,

and was later released by CASTRO January 1, 1959. BARQUIN

allegedly defected from CASTRO's Government in about

August of 1960, and thereafter went from Madrid to Mian Xle)

There has been criticism of the delay of BAR-

QUIN in defecting from CASTRO, and speculation that his

Produ

defection occurred only after he had been fired by CASTRO.

According to MM T-6, the subject also was in contact in

F61:11?)

Madrid with one OSCARJORAMAS, a Cuban mulatto, identified

as a Cuban C-2 intelligence agent who operated out of the

Cuban Embassy in Paris

On March 24, 1961, MM T-11, another Government

agency which conducts intelligence and personnel investiga-

tions, advised that the subject furnished the following

Information on February 6, 1961: 0

Subject has Alien Registration Number Al0 190153,

and in addition to his full name, ELOY GUTIEKREZ MENOYO,

has used the names of LAZARO MARTINEZ MENDOZA, and has

been called by the nickname GALLEGO. He has a present

military rank of Comandante (Major) in the Cuban órgan-

iZation known as the Second Front of the Escambray

(Segundo Frente de la Sierra del Escambray) • He stated

that the organization is presently inactive.

GUT IERRE'Z

was born in Madria, Spain,

on December 8, 1934, and is a

Cuban citizen by decree by CASTRO.. He is single, Catholic

by religion, and has received ten years schooling. He

speaks Spanish and has fought against BATISTA since 1952(€>

With regard to the name LAZARO MARTINEZ MENDOZA,

this was used on an illegal passport in 1957 to gain entry fel

• 59 г

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MM 105-2102

THE : GK

SECRET

into the United States to seek aid in the fight against

BATISTA. The name GALLEGO is a nickname given subject

by his friends to denote his Spanish origin, and is

often applied to individuals from the Province of Galicia

In: Spain. (E)

GUTIERREZ claims his rank of Comandante was

accorded him by manimous vote of all of the Escambray

Mountain group on November 10, 1957. (The group numbered

twenty at the time.) fe

GUTIERREZ has been on semi-inactive status

since January 1, 1959, at which time the Second Front

was disbanded. However

he does not feel that he can

be considered a bonafide member of CASTRO's army, since

the Second Front was never officially incorporated into

the rebel army. Accordingly, GUTIERREZ claims that as

of the time he departed Cuba (January, 1961), he had no

official title, position or standing in the CASTRO Regime.

GUTIERREZ said that although his name appeared on the Cuban

Revolutionary Army roster, he refused to accept any pay

checks and does not consider himself a member of the Cuban

Armed Forces. (e

GUTIERREZ said he arrived in Cuba from Spain

in 1948 at the age of 14 in company of his mother and two

older sisters. They entered Cuba legally and did not flee

Spain as exiles: (7

Subject's father, CARLOS GUTIERREZ ZABALETA,

currently resides at Linea and F Streets, Vedado, Havana,

Cuba.

His father, born in Madrid and a doctor of medicine,

is a specialist in radiology, in connection with rheuma-

tology.

His father presently is associated with the

National Institute for the Tourist Industry (INIT), and

is Assistant Director in Charge of Therapeutic Mineral

Water Facilities. His father fought on the side of the

Loyalist groups in their revolution against FRANCISCO FRANCO

in Spain. Ce7

0.

SECP.CT

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SEGRET

MM

105-2102

THE : GR

His mother is MERCEDES MENOYO BANCS, and his

brothers are JOSE ANTONIO, who died in the Spanish Civil

War, and CARLOS, who also fought on the Loyalists side

in Spain, and was killed March 13, 1957, in Cuba in the

assault on the Presidential Palace. fe

Subiect'

SARITA, and

MARITERE•

years at Auxeas Mar Institute in Barcelona.

GUTIERREZ

claimed that he belongs to no political organization of

any type, and has never been active in politics. He claims

his only contact with politics was subsequent to his join-

ing revolutionary forces against BATISTA in 1952. Subject

claimed that during the early conflict against BATISTA,

he

was a member of the underground and his mission included

sabotage and transportation of weapons to be used against

BATISTA. However, he stated that no incidents of any con-

sequence occurred during the early years of 1952-53.

Subject mentions that weapons were stockpiled and later

placed in the hands of revolutionists, and that assaults on,

Moncada and Goicuria camps took place. FIDEL CASTRO directed

the assault on the Moncada camp and REYNO GARCIA directed Cir.,

the assault on the Goicuria camp. It was around this time

that the Federation of University Students (FEU) organized the

Directorio Revolucionario under the command of JOSE ANTONIO

ARCHEVARRIA." The above assaults failed (e) CuBA.

On March 13, 1957, the assault on the Presidential

Palace was launched by the anti-BATISTA forces. Subject

was given the task of being liaison officer between the two

main assault groups.

It was during this assault that sub-

ject's brother CARLOS was killed while leading an assault

on the Palace C7

In mid-1957, subject came to the United States to

contact former Cuban President CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS and

FAUREY SHAUMON (CHOMON), leader of Directorio Revolucionario e

• 61 =

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 11

---

## Page 12

MM 105-2102

SECRET

THE: GK

forces.

GUTIERREZ' mission with these people was a fail-

ure, and he returned to Cuba and organized the

Second

Front. He asked the 26th of July Movement of FIDEL

CASTRO, the main fighting group in Cuba at the time, for

aid, but it was never granted. All the aid went to

CASTRO, who was in another mountain group in Cuba. Sub-

ject's group grew from fifteen.

individuals to approxi-

mately three thousand in late 1958.

(e)

Upon CASTRO's taking power in Cuba after the

successful ousting of BATISTA, subject's Second Front

group was practically disbanded, which, according to

subject, was due to the fact that none of the members of

the Second Front were pro-Communist. Subject stated that

FIDEL CASTRO kept some of the high-ranking Second Front of-

ficers close to him, but they had no command position.

Subject said he attended official gatherings and had body-

guards, but had no command position.

In July, 1960, FIDEL CASTRO asked subject to

make a trip to the

socialist countries, but subject re-

fused.

Subject stated that at this time he began plan-

ning his departure from Cuba, as he felt that FIDEL CASTRO

was beginning to work against him, and that eventully a

situation would occur whereby subject would be arrested and

placed in jail. He said that because of his opposition to

CASTRO's Communist actions, he was accused in newspapers,

on the radio, and by rumor, with being with counter-revolu-

tionary elements in bombings in Havana, and with involvement

with groups of anti-CASTRO individuals who fled to the

Escambray Mountains, and in GUTIERREZ' opinion, these were

CASTRO tactics to build up the image of the subject in the

minds of the Cuban people so that subject's incarceration

could be justified.

(C)

In view of this situation, subject fled Cuba

in January of 1961.

(e)

subject stated that he is the owner of Bloys Club,

whick is a bar and dancing club located in Vedado, Havana. (e)

11.014

• 62 -

SECRE

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 12

---

## Page 13

MM

105-2102

•THE : GK

SECRET.

Subject stated that in 1959 he received a contract from the

CASTRO Government to demolish the old market place in

Havana. Subject said that he fled Cuba, since it appeared

to him that arrest, trial, and probable imprisonment by

the CASTRO Gowernment seemed imminent, and that in order

to fight for survival and to reorganize opposition

forces here in the United States, it appeared necessary

to defect when he did. Subject said he feels he has

been misled by CASTRO, and that since his value in Cuba

had diminished, he felt he could be of more use in the

United States consolidating and mobilizing resistance

forces here to return to Cuba in a body. He said his

immediate plan was to organize a force of sufficient

strength and power to return to Cuba to overthrow CASTRO.(C)

Subject disclaimed any personal knowledge or

direct contact with foreign advisers of any type in

Cuba.

Subject also claimed that he has only hearsay in-

formation and information from unrecalled sources concern-

ing the military establishments and supplies in Cuba,

and that he is not aware of any command relationships

between foreign technicians and advisers in the Cuban

Government.

He did state that he believed there are about

two thousand foreign advisers and technicians who had

entered Cuba, and that these visitors were accorded pref-

erential treatment.. Subject claimed that the Cuban Army

is presently equipped with Belgian and U. S. manufactured

weapons, as well as Czech manufactured weapons, and he

stated that weapons coming into Cuba from the Sino-Soviet

Bloe were issued to the militia only (e)

Source stated that the

cuban Revolutionary Army

is composed of the same tactical

forces which fought

against BATISTA, and they are stationed throughout the

mountainous areas and total approximately 30,000 to 40,000

men. He stated that the army is organized in the same

manner as the

U.S. Army, with a G-1, G-2, G-3, G-4 and G-5 €

63 -

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 13

---

## Page 14

MM 105-2102

THE : GK

SECRET

setup.

The subject said that the primary function of the

Revolutionary Army appears to have been changed from a

fighting force to such tasks as operating labor battalions

and construction battalions, and that the primary function

of a fighting army has been

delegated to the militia,

which, according to the subject, could reach a mobilized

force of approximately two hundred thousand men. Sub-

ject stated the militia is composed entirely of workers

who cannot be separated from their regular tasks for an

extended period without causing complete paralysis of

all industry Subject estimated that there was a per-

arme a ant un of thirty thousand militiamen bearing (C

all times.

It was subject's opinion that at the time of

his departure from Cuba, the only group which could be

considered loyal to the CASTRO Regime was the civilian

militia,

and that their loyalty stems more from CASTRO's

constant reminders that they are the principal force

to deter invasion from outsiders than from any deep-

seated allegiance to CASTRO or his regime.

Subject

stated that the Chief of the Cuban G-2, which is the

overall Cuban Intelligence Directorate, is RAMIRO

VALDES, and that G-2 supervises all military and civil-

lan agencies alike. He has unquestionable control over

all investigations, both within Cuba and abroad. G-2

personnel in Cuba have been likened to

the Gestapo,

in both tactics, procedures and power. Subject said he

has no personal knowledge of key G-2 personnel, outside

Of VALDES, but is aware that most of the key personali-

ties have been

recruited from the ranks of the Socialist

Youth of Cuba, a known Comminist youth organization.

Subject stated that the person who answers to

CASTRO direct on all intelligence matters Is FALVIORAVIoCE

The subject stated that he has no conclusive

information with regard to CASTRO agents operating in

Latin

America, although he did recall hearing from unre

called sources that during the course of the Latin American (e)

• 64 °

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 14

---

## Page 15

MM 105-2102

THE: CK

SEGRET

Youth Congress which was held in Cuba in July, 1960, some

of the participants were selected and trained for sabo-:

tage and espionage missions in other countries.

Those

chosen were restricted to proven, loyal Communists and

Communist sympathizers, but subject was unable to furnish

the names of any of those picked. (e)

65

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32336917 Page 15

---

