NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10148 ‘ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 15

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 7

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32244090 Page 1


« . Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10148

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 01/01/77

PAGES : 16
SUBJECTS :

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
ROSEN, MERETE MUFF

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32244090 Page 2


MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
the certification:

first cousin

father nephew brother-in-law. |
mother niece sister-in-law i \
son husband stepfather | \
. daughter wife stepmother... i
“,. brother father-in-law stepbrother. |
»- sister ~ mother-in-law stepsister :
| uncle son-in-law half-brother | et bed
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister i
|

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

<I am not related /

‘I am related by the following relationship

Signature of Employee Date

W 68261 Woe ae
ocid:32244090 Page 3



* PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM a '

i (Please Use Typewriter — U.S. HOUSE OF ‘REPRESENTATIVES «._ ts erasures, corrections, or changes

Y : this-form-must-be -initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington; D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) s y

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: va

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) 1 Effective Date

muary 1, 1377 a
Type of Action

1 Appointment

C1 Solary Adjustment

ect Coumlicbes on Ages (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date]

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the-following-information.) |

~ Position Title Gross Annual Salary ; i
- 7 Fi 7 ~ |
roher 7 933/052. 06 |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, [J Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [] Professional. .

é %. 7 OAS,
Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res 2222 of 24% Congress.

@

. [) Joint Committée. , ’ -

|
i
]

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level________ Step.

(

|. certify <that.. this authorization is not in violation of :5.U.S.€. 3110(b),” prohibiting the’ employment. of
relatives.

7a

~All-appointments ‘and salary adjustments\for employees under the House Classification: Act and: for: Committeeem- + ~
ployees, except.those of the-Committee.on Appropriations, the Committee “on the Budget, and the-Joint Committees, ‘must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED::..

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

. BoB! Copy for.Initiating Office-or Committee

i —
W 68261 ee —
ocid:32244090 Page 4 .


r~ a

. C) Go: 1975 0 - 57-255 O
—
PAYROLE*AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be Initiated: by the

authorizing official.)
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Merete Muff Rosen 143/77

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

wes days : Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ij G Selary Adjusiment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary

$10,600.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. J Standing Committee: Staff-[ Clerical or [J Professional.

2. &] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. J}____. of_9g Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

| certify that’ this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
‘relatives.

(Gignoture of Authorizing Official

—Henry8.-Gonzalez——______________--__--_-______

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $ 00

NW 68261

Deeersszaaueateene's ting Office or Committee



PAYROLL-AUTHORIZATION FORM . ~
| (Please Use Typewriter’ U.S. ‘HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES “ay erasures, corrections, or changes.
| ~~ © er Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official) ee
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
| hereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) “2 = Effective Date A |
Merete Muff Rosen 4/1/77 a
- ~ - = - - i
Employee Social Security Number - . Type of Action ap 4
mI
C1 Appointment F
Employing Office or Committee BSolory Adjustment ]
Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) 4
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) 4
9 ia
Position Title Gross Annual Salary : 4
$22,000 4

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. C) Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical or [1] Professional.

2. [Al Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.__.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House,-complete item below.)

Position Number___________ If applicable, Level

|. certify that. this. authorization .is not-in violation. of: 5. U.S.C. 3110 \(b), prohibiting ‘the employment of

relatives.
Date. April 231977 |
~ veer pare An Oma j
Chairman _ i
(Title-If Member, District and State) {
All appointments-and salary adjustments foremployees- under the House Classification’ Act.and'for Committee: em- ]
ployees,-except those’ ofthe Committee-on-Appropriations;-the. Committee: on the: Budget, and the: Joint Committees, "must ‘= d
be approved by the Committee on House ‘Administration: . 4
i
q
APPROVED: j
4
Office of Finance use only: « 4
| Office Code____.__ :
Monthly Annuity $___._-___- 00 - |
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee 4
oe nn wo _ a as)

IW 68261 en

locid:32244090 Page 6


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on is formance initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Nerete Nuff Rosen S//TT
Employee Social-Security Number Type of Action

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ‘XxSolory Adjustment

[J Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$13,000

(If Committee. Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—(] Clerical or [7] Professional.

2. [x] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465. of 94th Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that, this. authorization -is not in. violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b}, .prohibiting. the employment of
relatives. —

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

__Lowis Stokes

{Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chatrman

All. appointments. and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those.of the Committee on:Appropriations, the Committee: on the Budget,-and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee.on House. Administration. ;

APPROVED:

Office of Finance. use only:

Office Code... 4 Mn

Copy for Initicting Office or Committee

W 68261 ~ —s
locid:32244090 Page 7

|
a
4
1
j
ra
4
:|

data

sihatutie ~ ane tartia
y

&


\

PAYROLL.AUTHORIZATION FORM.

(Please Use Typewriter - U.S. ‘HOUSE ore REPRESENTATIVES: . .-(Any erasures, corrections, or-changes 4

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C.-20515 ea be inated by the}

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: {
I hereby authorize the following payroll:action: ;
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) = Effective Date i

Merete Muff Rosen 8/1/77 i

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

30 Salary Adjustment

Assassinations

(2 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Researcher 15,009
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. EJ Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or [] Professional.
2. [8] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 469 of 95€M Congress:
3. C1 Joint Committee.
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below,).
Position Number___.-2------__-. If opplicable, Level 2. Steps.

relatives.

_ Date.

be approved by: the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

| .certify. that this authorization is not in’ violation es 5. U:S.C--3110(b), Prohibiting. the: émployment of «

All.appointments. and salary adjustments for employee's: under: the House--Classification Act :and-for Committee em: o #
~ployees;-except thoseof the-Committee.on Appropriations, the Committee’ on the Budget,- and the'Joint. Committees"must

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Seeutctiienat hte nat cate ante dui lb

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

W 68261
locid:32244090 Page 8



To: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
From: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff director ALO 7
Date: November 7, 1977 j-7°
Re: Salary Adjustment - M. Muff Rosen !

Adjust the salary of M. Muff Rosen November 1, 1977, from
$15,000 to $18,000. i |

As indicated earlier, Ms. Rosen will be leaving the

Committee which is now set for November 30, 1977. i

IW 68261 em
ocid:32244090 Page 9


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date -

|
Hevete Muff Rosen . WAT . .
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action ~

(1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee BSolory Adjustment

Assassinations Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Researcher $13,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—] Clerical or (J Professional.

2.88] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res of _25€R Congress.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify that. this authorization is not in.violation of 5 U.S.C. .3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. z .

All. appointments. and salary adjustments for.employees under the-House Classification Act arid: for Committee em-
ployees;.except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the: Committee-on the Budget; and-the Joint’ Committees, ‘must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

. APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

IW 68261 rs
locid:32244090 Page 10



W 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and pirector MS | 49
DATE: October 14, 1977 ”
SUBJECT: Resignations

th

ZO

This memorandum is to inform you that matt /Rosen is
on administrative leave from now until November/+4, 1977.
She should continue on the payroll for that period of 7
time plus any additional vacation that she has not yet // >3/7
taken.

This memorandum is also to inform you that Alice
Hamlin is on administrative leave between now and Novem-
ber 14. It is my understanding that she does not have any
additional vacation time. Consequently, she should re- or

main on the payroll through November 14.
nfl?
agit

ocid:32244090 Page 11


a se yrnaloc a yer

| a
| ROSEY, 19-04.

Naine of Employee

voir”

erRetheci mma

“erecta neetpennerestiem onan yas ¥

OFFICE OF THE CLERK

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES :

BALANCE BROUGH
FORWARD FROM a.

Oa a "PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD PRECEDING YEAR
1977 =
ee “Kaaraes YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE

Numbers deters 4 DATE OF APPOINTMENT CATEGORY
1-77
Log :
ae Position Title a =
‘ PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE 15 i :
2.0 ACCRUED AVAILABLE useo Balance :
Usvel QO THIS MONTH THIS MONTH THIS MONTH aT ose gg
ne is Annual.) Sick Annual Sick Annual Sick Annual Sick =
Sy 9 [ao pat] ity ia] ia 25 | 26 | 27 | 28 | 29 aL | Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave Leave
; /\|/ Fae
. Feb. / Val SA
aaa Fae eal fee | ee (Eee Fs a a | | a Eee
Mar. i / / 313
Apr. |
a It V) il i (ei Ee eae vara
May | 7 |/ | eoe Se
aq June | | | A \7 - (4 “ A + &
July fy &/7
“Aug. (l/ 6|
Sept. A /\/ 7 gq i
Oct. jee | a i
= : i . : area ap
] Nov. nae |__t | basal — &
| Dec.
| J i sa
! ane 7
eal = 05 day annual leave [ewan tA lfpB TTecaticieo connect:
=| = 1.0 day annual leave
| 0.5 day sick leave : :
1.0 day sick leave Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature (Ose e
. (If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
iE! 0.5 day administrative leave : ‘
Al or = 10 day administrative leave Approved: as oe eee
Clerk of the House Date

|

u

0.5 day

1.0 day

AS

=:.0.5 day

Ey = 1.0 day

W 68261

unauthorized absence
unauthorized absence
leave without pay

leave without pay

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder. :

EXHIBIT Ff

Id:32244090 Page 12



_—— in

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Merete Muff Resen November 30, 1977
Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action

G Appointment

Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
[:E) Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assasstaations Ci Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. )

‘Specify Date

{If type of action-is-an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* if emoloyee is a civil service’ annuitant (includes U:S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include'the annuity received by the employee
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. OI Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or LI Professional.
2. 1B. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 465_of 95 #2 Congress.

3. 1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify that this: authorization. is: not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment: of
relatives.

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee’ on the Budget, and ‘the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only: iT)
Office Code.

(Revised: August 1 1977)

IW 68261 i on
ocid:32244090 Page 13

i
4



3. (A) DO YOU HAVE ANY REASON TO QUESTION THIS PERSON'S LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES?

If your answer is “YES,” please give full details under ITEM 6.

Os

4, TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, IS THIS PERSON RELIABLE, HONEST, TRUSTWORTHY, AND OF GOOD CHARACTER?

If your answer is "NO," please explain fully:

5. TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, HAS THIS PERSON EVER BEEN FIRED FROM ANY JOB FOR ANY REASON, Of QUIT A JOB AFTER BEING NOTIFIED THAT
HE/SHE WOULD BE FIRED?
, See 6, Below
If your answer is “YES,” please give:
(A) NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER (Including ZIP Code if known):

(8) REASON THIS PERSON QUIT OR WAS FIRED:

YES

6. PLEASE FURNISH ANY OTHER INFORMATION YOU MAY WISH TO OFFER CONCERNING THIS PERSON'S QUALIFICATIONS, CHARACTER, CONDUCT, AND GENERAL FITNESS
FOR THIS POSITION.

Merete Muff Rosen was a very competent, faithful and loyal worker. Because of
her foreign birth and parentage, we could not secure security clearance for her

from the FBI and CIA which was a prerequisite for working with the Committee.

No inference as to her character or loyalty should be drawn from this.

7. [1 Please do not disclose my identity to the person identified on the front of this form.

If more space is needed for your answers, please continue on a separate sheet of paper.

PLEASE SIGNAYOUR) NAME BELOW

Deputy Staff Director- Select
Committee on Assassinations

{OCCUPATION OR TITLE)

‘Optional Form 49 Back (Rev. 11-75)

(GPO : 1976 oF —240-487 44-1)

ocid:32244090 Page 14


OPTIONAL FORMAD (Rev. 11-75)
Prescribed by

US. Civil Service Commission

F.PM. Chapter: 736,

5049-106

of Personnel Management
NACI GENTER
y Boyers, PA - 16019

| Office

INQUIRY FOR UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT USE ONLY

Personnel Office
House Select Committee
On Assassinations
US House of Reps
Washington, D.C.

20515

The person identified below has been appointed to or is an applicant for the position shown. To help us determine whether this
person is loyal, trustworthy, and of good character, we ask that you answer ali questions on the front and back of this form as
ally and specifically as you can. The information -you provide, including your identity, will be disclosed to the person identi.
fied below if he or she should so request, unless you indicate in item 7 on the reverse side of this form that you do not wish |
your identity to be disclosed.

Please use this form
when replying or
show the case num-
ber if you reply by
letter. A postage-free
envelope is enclosed

1A FULL NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDIE)
Rosen, Merete Muff
® OTHER NAMES USED

-Thomsen = Ne &

2° ARMED SEVICES SERIAL
NO., ANC DATES AND

BRANCH GF SERVICE

NIA

nt 2229 Bancroft Place, N.W.

16. AGENCY NAME

Sn CaMmESsion;

4/26/79 ~
4

wen 28818

4 DATE AND PLACE (CITY, STATE) OF BlkiH

Feb, 13, 1946 Copenhagen, DK
,AND ADDRESS

- Commodity Futures Trading

Wash, -D-6.--

Baw’ Patecnr

(0) REASON FOR LEAVING.

FOR CAUSE, WAS EMPLOYEE NOTIFIED OF REASON?

NO

for your reply. - W. Washington D.c. 20008 vo
| Please reply promptly. 178 3515 Martha Custis Drive, Alexandria , Va.22302
771519 Kingman Place, NW, Washington, D.C. 20005
3108 M St. NW, Washington D.C. 20007
100 Waranoke Road, Manchester Conn.
fhop of Elia Tabib, Shemlan, Lebanon
Feit Resass, East Jerusalem, Israel |
SaieS OF Giant Ea Beit-Husainig, fest Jerusalem; iscaghay "SAI
9. (CH 7 oe oe here <4 al
oy hen ie Deion sre eae en pd
1/77_ =~ 12/77 |
_ ) BE COMPLETED BY ADDRESSEE ON THIS INQUIRY __
1. HOW LONG HAVE YOU KNOWN THIS PERSO! 2. IN WHAT CAPACITY WERE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH THIS PERSON ?: ir] eantorEn Ts _
2 (CJ surervisore [J co-worxer o FRIEND OTHER (Specify) —_ | y
YEARS: ——- MONTHS a _ _— a _— = | ~
+ If you were the employer or supervisor, complete the following: (A, B, C, D, E, and F) , oe
(A) THLE OF THIS PERSON'S POSITION ————=—=——S—~=«&Y(B) DATE EMPLOYED. ~~ (C) DATE SEPARATED, er \ 4
Researcher January 1, 1977 November 30, 1977 |
!

ves

(F) 15 THIS PERSON ELIGIBLE FOR REMIRE? Ove
Uf NO" briefly. why sot)

| See remarks - No.

Select Committee on Assassinations has terminated

(CONTINUE ON REVERSE SIDE)

] me
W 68261 ~~
ocid:32244090 Page 15



Syped Vinge Togs |

|
| é

Wwe Jor Corel |

fror. fur 4 fier on BS

| NW 68261
| Docld:32244090 Page 16


ee

‘

Select Committee on Assassinations

GH. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

,

W 68261 oe
ocid:32244090 Page 17



G Merete Muff Rosen . Age: 30, Married
, 1519 Kingman Place, N,.W. No childern

| Ashington D.C. 20005 Ka
Ainlaed b ‘relephone: (202) 483 wee E® ‘3 o é ow
im ;

i \, eee dew
wi
e AEDUCATICN: oe +;B.A. (cum laude) Georgetown University
T 1 / School of Foreign Service

| jade! 5

Major: government and economics
Minor: Arabic

1972-73 American University of Peirut
Major: Middle Zast History

1971~72 American College in Jerusalem
Major: history

1963-65 "Interiorarkitektskolen" (Interior

Design School) Copenhagen,
4 Denmark,
Fluent in Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and

in German, Arabic and

English, Good

tebrew.

1969-72 Hebrew Union Coll
Archaeol

e@, Biblical and
cal School, Jerusalem,

er of

, ; ing
ately worked as architect, surveyer

-t/ ote ‘ oe and draftsman at site “Tel Gezer",

uo . aed I also organized and trained many
d a 7 volunteers to assist in the excavation

4 which gave them a clearer sense of
+ purpose and utilized their labour
economi cally efficient

~ During

ervisors'

(- VAL reports, assisted in writing the of-
hea ficial excavation reports and put

a7 together architectual plans for
g- Bec publication, After additional research
: s

l-. om : I also redrew objects and burials

for publication, :
1970-71 American School of Oriental Research
Jerusale

i

{

|

if

| ,» Israel

i ry ~ My duties were similar

| to those described above, but in additio
I often. served aS.a translator between

NW 68261
| Docld:32244090 Page18



the local authorities and the excavation
staff at "Tel He . IT assisted and
mediated in such difficulties as where
;.to dig so as not to interfere too much
‘with local daily life and to solve
problems of getti water and staff
= to opereate the camp.
1967-69 Architects Ingerslev & Nielsen,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
Designer - I drew up plans and success-
fully implemented the decoration of a
hospital and a old age home in Denmark,
T was fully in charge of making sure
* _ that all the proper transactions took
place for the work to be completed and
coordinated the work of 50 workers and
professionals,

i Fall 1976 Carter-Mondale Presidential Campaign,
Mondale Office. Major responsibility:
wrote daily press summaries of nine

major newspapers for Mondale plane and
Atlanta office. (Reference attached).

: TRAVELS: f lived 5 years in Tsrael and 1 year in Lebannon,
' { traveled frequently thro out the Middle East,
i

' TNTERESTS: 1. International relations in the field of

ee Middle East economics and politics, foreign

i student community, inter-cultural communicatior
{ 2. Contemporary ual arts (design, textiles etc,
{ 3. House renovation, fine arts, reading,

| NW 68261
| Docld:32244090 Page 19
