# docid-32334726

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90118-10085

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2897-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

DL

HQ

DATE: 02/17/1958

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Issassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

F8262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.l

NW 68262 Docld:32334726 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

ORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

E OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD 12/20,24/57

2/17/58

1/0-10,13,14,20-22, 24,31;

REPORT MADE BY

2/1,4/58

TYPED EY

ROBERT M. BARRETT

JH

CHARACTER OF CASE

HARRY RAYMOND

POPE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

lOPSIS:

POPE, presently being sought by Dallas SO, belleved to be hiding

out in West Texas or New Mexico.

Additional background

information, results of contacts with informants and associates

• P.

DETAILS:

PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

On January 9, 1958, Dallas Confidential Informant T-1,

who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

JACK ANDREW PARKER, FBI #3569302, 1s POPE's cousin

and would

assist POPE in anything.

T-1 stated PARKER lives at 1203 North

Washington and that both he, PARKER, and POPE are the nephews of

the owner of that residence, Mrs. WINNIE BRISSON.

ROVED

'IES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

7212894-

REG- 7.

See Page la

DALLAS (92-34)

EX. - 125

18 FEB 26 1958

1cc relamed Am 4210

central de craged

8108/594925

62 APR 24.1958

OPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loansd.

-

68262 Docld:32334726 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 92-34

the first part of December, 1957, at which time he was

accompanied by a large blonde named LINDA.

Te? stated

T=2

Is well acquainted with most of the prostitutes in the Dallas-

Fort Worth area but had

never observed LINDA prior to the

above described meeting.

On January 9, 1958, a 1952 Pontiac bearing Texas

11cense MW 8923 was observed at the residence of SANDRA NOBLE,

It was determined this vehicle

was registered to RUBY CORSER, mother of SANDRA NOBLE.

January 13, 1958, Deputy COX advised that based on his past

dealings with RUBY CORSER, he believed she would assist POPE

In any manner and is most uncooperative with law enforcement

officers.

He stated

she should definitely be considered as

an associate of POPE.

D. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

1o Prostitution

On December 24, 1957, Dallas Tol advised that T-1

had last heard POPE was in Fort Worth, living with his

prostitute wife PEGGY GAFFORD. Tol was of the opinion that

GAFFORD hustled at the Westbrook Hotel in Fort Worth and was.

probably helping support POPE.

On December 20, 1957, Dallas Confidential Informant

T-3, who has furnished

rellable information in the past,

advised that T-3 1s very closely acquainted with RAMONA

PARKER,

the ex-wife of JACK PARKER, cousin of POPE, and a prostitute.

On January 31, 1958, T-3 advised that on January 25, 1950,

Dallas pimp and police character LAWRENCE WILLLAM THRASH,

#2128280, had advised T-3 that RAMONA PARKER and JACK ANDREW

PARKER, along with POPE, were hiding out together from the

THRASH indicated to I-3 that he knew POPE's present

THRASH advised T-3 that RAMONA PARKER, who had

formerly hustled for THRASH, would probably get tired of POPE

and leave him in the very near future.

On February 4, 1958, To2 advised that sometime in

October of 1957, POPE had taken Dallas prostitute LUCILLE JEAN

FAULA,

FBI #3312825, away

from her pimp-husband NORMAN W.

"BABE" JONES, FBI #3042/34.

POPE worKed FAULK for a while and

then after giving her a beating, she ran away from him and

= 8°

NW 68262 Docld:32334726 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI 92-34

INFORMANT

• PAGE

T-L 1S PCI ELIZABETH YOUNG.

I-2 1S PCI JO ANN GIERE.

T-3 18 DL-83-6.

IO4 1S PCI MARILYN MILLER.

T-6 1S PCI CHARLES B. DUARTE.

T-T IS PCI JOHNNY "THE PLUMBER" LEACH, contacted by

SA ROBLEY D. MADLAND.

T-8 Is PCI JACK HINES, contacted by SA ROBLEY D.

MADLAND•

All of the above except I-5, T-T, and T-8, were

contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

In addition to the above, the following informants

were contacted but were unable to furnish any information

concerning the activities of POpE.

PCI JOSPEN CARDELLO, contacted 12/23/57, by SA

KENNETH R. ALBERT.

PCI AYRIE MCDONALD, contacted 12/23/57, by SA

KENNETH R. ALBERT.

PCI MANNING O'NEAL BENNETT, contacted 12/20/57, by

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-28-0 contacted 1/14/58, by SA ROBLEY D. MADLAND.

= 16 °

NW 68262 Docld:32334726 Page 4

---

