# docid-34517487

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:N'w

64954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date

: *02/17/98

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10012-10042

RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC643360W - PAGES

33-34

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

: OIC, USAOSD

TO : ACSI, DA

TITLE : MESSAGE

DATE

:10/12/62

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : PUNTNER, JORDAN J.

"A 66" RAID AGAINST CUBA 8 OCT 62.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/27/97

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : PAGE 34 WAS REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 27

AUGUST 1997.

NW 64954 Docld:34517487 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

MESSAGE

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE

CONF IDENT LAE

PRIORITY

GROUP -3

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT: AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

FROM:

TO:

OIC USAOSD FIELD DET NR1

ACSI DA

NR:

1213122

SGD WATLINGTON

OCT 62

SCO FORM

8 JUN 56

35-2

Following

is ur DUY-956-62. Info furnished by

DUY - 332-1-62.

Subject:

"A 66" Raid Against Cuba 8 Oct 62.

Date of info: 11 Oct 62.

2. TE source is reportedly a confidant of a member of

"A 66."

Source reports he receives information first hand con-

cerning "A 66! plans and operations.

3. (e Source reports the main objective of the 8 Oct

62 raid by "A 66" was to sink a Russian freighter loaded with

war material and docked at La Isabela.

The raid on the Russian

camp

was made only after the failure of attempt to destroy the

Russian freighter.

4.

fe, 2 members of the raiding party, both strong and

experienced swimmers, and both familiar with the waters in the

locale,

swam to the bottom of the Russian ship.

Both men were

equipped with SCUBA equipment, complete with metal air tanks.

l of the swimmers carried a mine for placement against the hull

of the ship. As the men neared the ship, the individual with

the mine was suddenly seized by

causing him to lose the mine.

swimmer and in excellent physical condition, individual was un-

he was su den rent ine,

a tremendous pulling force,

In spite of being an excellent.

able to break the force pulling him toward the ship. This force.

was directional in nature and had no effect on the companion

swimmer, also near the ship.

The companion, being outside the

influence of the force, managed to grasp the endangered swimmer

by the ankle and pull him to safety.

The swimmer caught by

this

force was unable to determine if the attraction was caused by a

strong artificial water current, or by an electrical or magnetic

pull.. Both swimmers emphasized the directional nature of the

force. They believe the danger experienced in this case may

have a bearing on manner in which Commander Crabbe, disappeared

when he attempted to

examine the hull of Russian vessel in

England.

DA IN 275788

ACTION COPY

This record copy will be

disposed of in accordance

with AAIN

35

REPLACES OCS FORM

375-2.

1 AUG 51. WHICH

MAY BE USED.

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NW 64954 Docld:34517487 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE

MESSAGE:

NR:

121312Z

PAGE 2

5. (C After failure of attempt to sink the Russian

ship, the raiding party sought other means of striking the

enemy. The group noticed an area. ..ighted by floodlights and

i Found it to be a Russian camp, enclosed by wire fence. The

Russians were having

a party, with music and singing, when

the raiders opened fire.

It may be significant that during

the whole period "A 66"

gunners were tiring into camp, the

Floodlights were not turned off but remained on to light

targets for the raiders.

6. SCP-3

ACTION:

ACS!

DA IN 275788

34:

SCO FORM

8 JUN 56

35-2

REPLACES OCS FORM

1 AUG

MAY BE USED.

51, WHICH

NW 64954 Docld:34517487 Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 4

33

COPIES RECEIVED

FILE

ACTION U SAOSP

OPS AREA

EXEC

FLO

DFI

CUR INTEL SEC

CUR INTL & SAS

TECH DIY

SCIENT

BR

MAT BR

AREA ANAL BR

M & S BR

EAST DIV

CHINA BR

CHINA SEC

SOUTH ASIA BR

WEST PAC BR

EUR DIY

USSR BR

E EUR BR

WEST DIV

WE-WH BR

WE SEC

WH

SEC

ME/AF BR

AR-IS SEC

AFR SEC

GR-IN-TUR

SEC

COLL DIV

SPT STF

REQ COORD BR

WEST BR

EUR BR

EAST BR

TECH OR

INTEL SPT BR

GFS BR

EXPLOIT BR

DPP & A

PLANS

DIY

PROG &

BUD DIV

BUD

& ACCTG BR

• No Reply

Required

• Answered By Cablo

ALMIN CIV

M

5R

REG

SaC

PERS

BR

ID. BR

ATTACHE DIV

DSM &

Cl

MAP

&

GFO CIV.

CMBT INTEL/DEV DIV

SCTY

DIY

CI aR

902 CIC

INVES

BR

NAL

SMI

BR

USAl & PSG

CGUSARC 4R13

CG XVIN! AGH CORPS

USAPIC

NIS

CIA

MSA.

ST .T=

IGA

03D

LES

NIVY

04:879

AMERI

09/t45

ACTION

DOZUMZAT TICH

O Answered By

Lotter

D

Interim Reply Sent

cirris fion Rorternd

Date

NW 64954 Docld:34517487 Page 4

---

