JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: | FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90106-10197
992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —105-117222-217
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SJ
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 09/30/1965
PAGES; 2
SUBJECTS :
COMANDOS L
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: — INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO.

vot

37

NW 64578 Docld:32333341 Page 1


OPTIONAL FORM NO. 19 010-106-039 + if g u
wav oe corn :
CRUST 2

* lan
* ¢, UNITED: STATES GU ‘RNMENT

a pia Ny te
= Memorandum
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI &105-117222) DATE: September 30, 1965
FROM” i 2" JUAN (105-6323) (P)
; wool E axes L
IS - CUBA
a / NEUTRALITY MATTERS  pgcuasst¥rep By$
perso! (00: NBW=YORK ) oN. sry
Ay paler. pe ED
ft Enclosed for the Bureau and Miami are nine and two

wv copies respectively of a letterhead memorandum dated and cap- :
PS tioned as above. :

ake fF
, vSF TINs RUSELL WGO VINA, former PSI, 70 Venus i

SJ PEI
Street, Santi Teresita, Santurce, Puerto Rico (Protect by
Request. ):2 uF

SJ -T-2 is RAUL FERNANDEZ SILVA, Manager, Occidental
Life, Room 312, Imparcial Building, San Juan, Puerto Rico
(Protect by Request.) U

Local dissemination is being made to ONI, OSI, INTC,
INS, Coast Guard and Customs.

\ Y)

S SJ 1-2, RAUL FERNANDEZ eae ed that Comandos /.

i Lleft the Dominican Republic at the request of "U.S. Govern- | fi
it > fent Officials" and had entered an agreement with certain i]

7 "0. S.. Government Officials" whereby Comandos L agreed not 3p :

launch any attacks on vessels at sea. Also Comandos L agreed i
not to launch attacks from the sea on vessels berthed in Cuban :
ports. Attcks on these vessels from land was not prohibited in :
the agreement. In return for compliance with these restrictions, j
Comandos L would be allowed to enter Florida ports with thir ?
\ mother ship for the purpose of securing fuel and a ar :

AINED ;
LEADS : P
a . 12 Se 17222—Al]
2) SAILIUAN DIVISION:

Dob yy E

a
3

Co’
B
Xe

( 1 OCT 11 1965
\ (23 Bureau. (Enc . i 36
\G? tant (ine. ats PROS ya eke
2- San Juan aoe. Chass. & T="\FY Sp
\ LN GIN Cyeia é
ae IS Di¢.
6 eae SORE Dalcst

. atin info. 3
, Peele eas. brill
i a

DATE 0:

vo shums JUSCE-

mynins— (bonded
10 Sipe

NW 64578 Docld:32333341 Page 2

