i
|
i

| NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10452 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
— ed 68261 Date:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 12

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 10

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute-an unwarranted invasion of personal Privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| Docld:32239460 Page 1


Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

HSCA
180-10060-10452

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 01/01/77

PAGES : 11
SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

JOHNSON, GENE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box. 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
| Docld:32239460 Page 2



Nw 68261 7 Seg _

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION ce)

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE” OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 saentriniog etfs initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) il Effective Date
Gene 2. Johnsoa 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
O Appointment
: CO Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
XC. Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Asgassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business.
Speciiy Dare

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.
2. 1 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Ref 36 of SEB_Congress.
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. .

79

jrature of Authorizing Official)

LODIS STORES

sme ond

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

mittee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Docld:32239460 Page 3

Beare



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter. - ~ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) : Washington, D.C. 20515 stthortzlog otttlal initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Gene R. Johnson Mazch 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number { Type of Action

O Appointment

‘BySolory Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

O Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assagsinations O. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Deputy Chief Counsel $44,500

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross ahnual salary shown should include the arinuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

2. Gy Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Reo 55
3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_

Hf applicable, Level______. Step.

1 certify. that this authorization is not: in violation of 5 U.S.C._ 3110(b), »prohi

ng the employment of
relatives.

(Signature of Authorizing Officiall

LOUIS STORES

‘ember, District and

All appointments and salary adjustments for.employees under the House Classification Act-and for ‘Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

is

APPROVED:.
Chairman, Com
Office of Finance use only: an
Office Code... Benefits...
Monthly Annuity $______ 00 Ras ct eee Payroll.
(Revised: August 1 1077
IW 68261 ~

locid:32239460 Page 4

ey



a
Nw 68261
| Docld:32239460 Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FC™

(Please Use. Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES»
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
‘on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Gene R. Johnson

February 1, 1978

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

[ee]

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

O Appointment
O'Solary Adjustment
CO Title Change

O Termination (At close

D Leave without pay (Begi

close of business__.

of business on effective date)

with effective date above and ending

Specify Gate

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary*

Deputy Chief Counsel

$4

2,560.00

* If emoloyee is a ci
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. D1 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or CI Professional.
¥
2. EASpecial {Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—-H. Res. 279. of DBngress.

3. O Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

relatives.
February 16,

78

Member)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for. Committee em-
ployees, except. those of the Committee. on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the: Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

vil service onnvitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

aeneeee- Step______.

| certify that. this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b]

{Type oF print nome of Author

Chairman

‘dasa ot 2 OE BRITT ERIE EETC SCOR ECR OO NOR ia

879 95¢)

), prohibiting the employment of

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

fo]
i
H
1
i
i
i
H
H
i
Hl
H
i
Hl
i
Hl
L URSp ner uRRrS WONTAR TON TONUR es OP o CRD DERN wen



TO:

FROM:
DATE:

RE:

1978,

MEMORANDUM

Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel We YU
February 13, 1978

Mr. Gene Johnson

This is to inform you that effective February 10,

Mr. Gene Johnson has been promoted from Assistant

Deputy Chief Counsel/King Investigation to Deputy Chief

Counsel. His starting salary will be $42,500.00 effective

February 1, 1978.

If you have any questions, please contact me at

your convenience.

ICM: 3

Nw 68261
Docld:32239460 Page 6



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
sate (Pleasé Use Typewriter
. _or Ballpoint Pén)

To.the Clerk of the House. of Representatives: <

\ hereby authorize the following payroll adtion:

U.S. HOUSE “0 F-REPRESENTATIVES: *-*
: Washington, D:C.'20515

(Any:erasures; corrections, or changes
‘on -this. form. must- be. initialed -by the.
authorizing official.) “

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)’

oyu Effective Date

Gene R. Johnson

December 1,.1977

Employee‘ Social: Security Number:

‘Type of Action

[esse |

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

Co Appointment
Wl-salary: Adjustment: <=

Gi Termination (At-close of business on effective date) «

: (If:type of action is.an.Appointment.or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) "2"

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary :

Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel

$36,400

«(I CommitteeEmployee;‘complete:appropriate-item:below.)=

1] Standing Committee:Staff =|

€lerical-or

+ 2.4} Special:or Select Committee:-Authority +H.'Res::

3. L) Joint Committee.

(If Employee-of an Officer of the House, complete. item below’)

Position. Number_.

All. appointments. and:salary. adjustments for employees: under: the ‘House. Classification-Act and-fér Committee: em-~
--ployees; except: those ofthe Committee on*Appropriations; the: Committée- on ‘the Budget, and the Joint Committeés; must~

be approved by the Committee on: House Administration:

APPROVED:

.!f. applicable, Level _

s Stokes

T}PrOfessiondksensi estate acts

(Signoture of Authorizing Official)

‘employment ‘of’

IRSA ON SELLY UME OSE CE

ei aad

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for. Initiating. Office or Committee. Se

|
| Nw 68261
Docld:32239460 Page 7

4
A
|
if

lide ued ars ne


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter® ~ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 suthorizieg effieat initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) oge Effective Date
Gene R. Johnson 8/1/77
Employee Social Security Number : acme Type of Action
D Appointment
Employing Office or Committee : Solary Adjustment.
Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date]

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete:the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel 34,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, EJ Standing Committee: Staff—[ Clerical or [J Professional.

2. Y Special or Select Committee? Authority—H. Res.

of 88th Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete. item below.)

Position Number_.

f applicable, Levels. Step.

L-certify that.this authorization -is* not--in. violation of 5 USC. 3110(b), prohibiting * the. employment : of:
relatives. ;

Date. August 2 19_77

for:Comimittee-em-
suployees,-except those of the: Committee-on Appropriations, the Committee’.on the ee and the eon Corhmittees, must
be approved by. the Committee on:House Administration: “ :

All appointments: and salary.adjustments ‘for employees: underthe House Cla

APPROVED:

~ com : lee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ;
Office Code

Monthly Annuity $2.

1
{
P|
‘
(
{
‘|
|
!
|
q

pote ee ee ee

| NW 68261 > o> — =
Docld:32239460 Page 8 :



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION . FORM

| (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF: REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or ‘changes

i 5 i on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

|

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) . Effective Date 4
Gene R. Johnson 6/11/77 |
Employee Social. Security Number ; Type of Action “a
F 7 |
CD Appointment i
: Employing Office or Committee & Sclory Adjustment 4
: Assasstnations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) Q
4

If type of-action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
‘ $32,000

4

(If Committee Employee; complete appropriate item below.)

1: C Standing Committee: Staff—[ Clerical or [] Professional. a

2.

@

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. “55 _of 9

Congress.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

| _~ (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) fey

Position Number___. If applicable, Level

| certify that this authorization is notin violation of: 5. -U:S
relatives.

‘Signet of Authorsing Offcoh

/ touts Stokes 3
: Type or prs nome of Authorizing Official) ;
Chairman : i

- All appointments and.salary adjustments for-employees under .the:House-Classification Act and for"Committee em:
ployees, except those. of the Committee-on-Appropridtions;the Committee-or the Budget; and the Joint. Committees; rust
be approved by: the Committee .on ‘House Administration.

APPROVED:.__

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

|| Nw 68261 . Ba _. a
locid:32239460 Page 9 .



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| (Please Use Typewriter ~ U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) E Effective Date
Gene R. Johnson QiT7
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
[sone | (0 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee A Sclary Adjustment
: Assassinations C1 Termination {At close of business on effective date)

{If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$47,500

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. LD Standing Committee: Staff-[ Clerical or [J Professional.

2: [Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. [] Joint Committee.

(If:Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item-below,)

Position Number. If applicable, Level________ Step.

relatives.

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVE!

1, Committee on House Administration

.l: certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110{b}, prohibiting the employment of

All appointments and salary adjustments for employee's under the’ House Classification Act and for: Committee-em:"
ployees, except those of the Committée-on. Appropriations, the: Committee on iis Budget, and the: Joint Committees; must

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

1
NW 68261 ——
| Docld:32239460 Page 10

were



PAYROLL. AUTHORIZATION. FORM. 3
| (Please Use Typewriter U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES © (Any erasures, corrections, or changes:
[> or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authoring official.)
| To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: my Be0 tae ce ‘ 4
| Uhereby authorize the following payroll action:
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date : al
1 |
Gene R. Johnson 2-1-77 |
: a i
Employee Social Security Number y “Type of Action q
a
(1 Appointment | \
Employing Office or Committee CSolary Adjustment : 4
| Select Committee on Assassinations 1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) z|
“|
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment,-complete the following information.) :
Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$19,680. |
:
If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) j
| 1. C1 Standing Committee: Staff-[} Clerical or [J Proféssional. 4
2. KJ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res._ Congress. d
3. L Joint Committee. |

| (If Employee of an.Officer of the: House,’complete item below.) qe
| ;
| Position Number_. If applicable, Level -_-__ =. Step_ou aus. j
q
\. certify that.this authorization is not in violation’.of 5. U.S.C: 3110(b);: prohibiting the: employment sof “|
“relatives. 3
4
|
~ “Gignoture of Authorizing Official 4
Henry B. Gonzalez 7 |
* {Type or print name of Authorizing Official) a
Chairman 7 {
fember, District ond State) a

f

All appointments:and salary adjustments for employees: under. the House- Classification-Act’and:for Committee: em- K

ployees;. except those. of the-Committee-on ‘Appropriations, the’ Committee’ on ‘the Budget, ‘and: the Joint Committees? must’
-be approved. by the Committee on House*Administration. ~ ” 7

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only: ‘ 5
Office Code.

| NW 68261 = : _
| Docld:32239460 Page 11 .



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.

\_/ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
° Washington, D.C. 20515

J) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
~~ on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint. Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: Se

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

sehson

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee 0) Salary Adjustment

Termination (At close of business on éffective date)

mauittea on Ass:

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) .

Position Title | Gross Annual Salary is

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) :

1. D1 Standing Committee: Staff

Clerical or'[_] Professional.

2.) Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. -Congress. -

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_____-_____-_=_.If applicable, Level_______.. Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in. violation
relatives,

of 5 US.C., 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

_ {Title ~if Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under ‘the House Classification Act and for Committee:em-
ployees, except-those of the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee-on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Chairman, Committee

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.___

Monthly Annuity $ 00

MS
= 68261

Docld:32239460 Page 12

ns



* PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. o~

<<" (Please Use Typewriter \_ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES \__. (Any erasures, corrections, or changes”
“or Ballpoint Pen) Washington;-D:C. 20515 - Minprizing offal) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

|
|
|

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: - -

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
Gene 2. Johnson i Yi? !
Employee Social Security Number . \ Type of Action

{§] Appointment

Employing Office or Committee Di Salary Adjustment

mittee on Assassinations C Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(if type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title - | ~ Gross Annual Salary
Assistant Chief Counsel -«ina 932,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

‘ 1. D Standing Committee: Stoff-[1] Clerical of [J Professional.

_.of 248 Congress. .

2. EF Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

wy

Position Numbe:

If applicable, Level_ Step

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the = of
relatives.

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees: under the House. Clas jon Act and for Committee_em-~
ployees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on: the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must~
be approved’by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:..

Office of Finance Use only: |
Office Code

| Nw 68261 _ _
| Docld:32239460 Page 13 7


| C C

MEMORANDUM

“TO: All Staff Employees i
FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

i

|

i

|

|

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification

to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the

| relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current

| Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).
|
i
|
|
|
i
|
'

The following are the relationships to be included in
“the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law. | 7

mother niece sister-in-law | \

son husband stepfather ae \
“daughter wife stepmother,” |
*., . brother father-in-law stepbrother i

sister mother-in-law stepsister

uncle son-in-law half-brother | |e

aunt daughter-in-law half-sister |
first cousin |

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related x /

I am related by the following relationship

| fle Dhore j--72 :

Signature of/Employee Date

| Nw 68261 Sakae
| Docld:32239460 Page 14

