# docid-32332775

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90104-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-211

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/11/1961

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

19.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332775 Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF live lIGATioN

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 1 1 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan-

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoache

Mr. Evans 240)

Mr.

Malone.

Mr. Rosen_

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

8-11-61

10-43

PM DLH

DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2940 AND SAC, CLEVELAND

/FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH

92-226

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, AKA, AR.

RE PG TELS TO BUREAU AND

CLEVELAND EIGHT ELEVEN INSTANT•

NEGRO, TWENTY-

SIX, FURNISHED INFO IN RETELS. HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFO TO

PSP IN RECENT PAST AND WAS RECENTLY OPENED AS PCI PITTSBURGH WITH

THREE CONTACTS. TO DATE BY BUREAU AGENT. INFO RE NUMBERS OPERATION

MERCER COUNTY, PA., VERIFIED BY SEVERAL OTHER SOURCES INCLUDING

THOSE IN LAW ENFORCEMENT. HOWEVER INFO RE NUMBERS TARGETS NOT

CORROBORATED TO DATE.

RECENTLY ARRESTED FARRELL, PAO,

PD ON ARMED ROBBERY CHARGE AND PRESENTLY OUT ON BOND. STATES

MURDER RUMOR CAME FROM GENERAL CONVERSATION AMONG RACKETEERS

MERCER CO., AND COULD NOT BE PINPOINTED FURTHER AT TIME OF CONTACT.

PCI STATED HE WILL ASCERTAIN FULL NAME OF THE FARRA TO BE KILLED

AND WILL ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN FURTHER DETAILS. INFO REGARDING

NUMBERS OPERATION IN FARRELL AND SHARON COMES FROM PERSONAL

KNOWLEDGE PCI BUT IDENTITY OF CANTON, OHIO, RACKETEERS NOT NOW

KNOWN TO HIM. \ IDENTITY OF PCI SHOULD NOI BE REVEALED. NEXT

CONTACT WITH, PCI EXPECTED EICHT SIXTEEN NEXT. BUREAU AND

*END PAGE ONE

R2G-21

92-29405211

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

50AUG 16 1968

NW 68262 Docld:32332775 Page 2

---

