# docid-34517440

## Page 1

Page :

08/19/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

----------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

:194-10005-10031

RECORDS SERIES

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

CODED SOURCE KEY SHEETS

00/00/00

: SCHEER, ROBERT

KEY SHEET

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B, 2, 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CODED SOURCE KEY SHEET 3

SUBJECT: SCHEER, Robert

DOB: 4 Apr 36

DOSSIER: H1 01 69 40

S5N7

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

A key sheet identifying coded sources mentioned in this dossier

is filed in the Control Office, Administrative and Security Division,

USACRE.

Separate request, with justification, must be submitted for such

key sheet. DA Form 1144 (Request for Dossier) or equivalent is

prescribed.

Complete justification will be entered in the "Remarks"

section.

3.

AIC Form 508

7 Aug 62

ARMY Ft Holabird 1753

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date

Page

.. ..

08/19/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10005-10031

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PAGE 3&3A-H

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

CODED SOURCE KEY SHEETS

00/00/00

9

SCHEER, ROBERT

KEY SHEET

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B, 2, 3

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SORgEt, Bobert

H8-0159L0

L Apr 36

3A

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SUBISCTON SCHEER, Robert, aka: SIEBR, Robert

Pro Inductee

DOB: iL Apr11 1936

POB: Bronx, New York

DOSSIER NOS H1 016- 94D

Confidential Source "A"

Confidentia? Source "B"

KTY SHEET

Bureau of Criminal Identification,

Subversive, Division of State Polico,

New York, New Zork

Ralph Santo

2760 Bronx Park East, Brotx, New Tort

Business Address: US Post Offico)

Williansburg Station, 3455 White

Plaing Road, Bronx, New York

VORGESTAS

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 5

---

## Page 6

KEY, SKEET

(AR 381-131)

a. DATE OF BIRTH

4 April 1936

BOSSTER MOREH

i1-016910

3. DATE PORNARDED

3: 21 August 1951

NAMEN OF SOURCE

Diatrict Actorey Office, Alameds

County, Oakland

PY STALLATION DE SCURCE AND INFORMATION GIVEN

This Agency bad, furnished reliable informetion u the pest.

B. PLACE OF BURTH

Bronx, lev York

Jakland 1A-2016

CODE

FOSITION OF SOURCE, IN KELATIONSHAP 10

SUBJECT

Local District Attornette Office

DOWNERADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AITOMATICALLY DECLASSIFED

DOD DIR 520030

S REASON POR CODINGCheck one and add further explanation it necessar

Divulging the identity of Source will have an adverse effection

national, security (confidential Source).

Source fishes to remain anonymous.

The Source refuses to be confronted and wishes to remain anonymous

Include reason, if giver.

JUS IT SLICT IS JOE PART OF THE INVESTICATIVE FILE:

-D/707 2357-3, SEP. 60

AP-55--59-442

CLASS COO

3C.

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SUBJECT

SCHEER, Robert

KEY SHEET

(AR 381-1312

DATE CF BIRTH

4 April 1936

DOSSTER NUMBER

11-016940

3. DATE FORWARDED

21 August 1961

NAME OF SOURCE

Police Department

Berkeley, Californla

EVALUATION OF SOURCE AND INFURMATION GIVEN

PLACE OF BERTH

Bronx, New York

45 KEY SYMBOL IDENTITY

Berkeley TA -10141

CODE

POSITION OF SOURCE IN RELATIONSHEP TO

SUBJECT

Local Police Department

This Agency has furnished rellable information la the past.

DOWNGRADER AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

HOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSTHED

DOD DIR 5200:10%

BREASON FOR CODING Check one and add further explanation if necessary

Divulging the identity of Source will have an adverse effect on

national security (Confidential Source).

→ Source vishes to remain anonymous.

The Source refuses to be confronted and wishes to remein anonynous

Include reasony if given.

DITS KEY SHENT IS NOT PART OF THE INVESTIGATIVE PILE.

DA. FORM 2357-R, 1 SEP 60

ARMT-PRES-5874-61

CLASSIPICATION

€OM

3D La

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 7

---

## Page 8

GLASSIFICATION

CONEDENTIAL

T.EY: SHEET

(AR: 381-131)

a. DATED OF BIRTH

SUBJECT

ScHeaR, Robert

/ April 1936

B. PLACE OF BIRTH

Bronx dev y9rx

DOSSTER NUMBER

A1-O1E9ÃO

DATE FORWARDED

21 August 1951

4. KEX SYMBOL IDENTITY

Sen, Frarictico T-U-1100

CODE ASSA

NAME OF SOURCE

Western Research Foundation

San Francisco, Califorita

SVALUATION OF SOURCE AND INFORMATICN GIVEN.

S. POSITION OF SOURCE IN RELATIONSHIP, TO

UnSHlEfal Agency serving on cllpping

service

Its Agency has provided reliable information in the met.

tron clipping: scue 500 publications, and from olier local agencies.

ARE obtaino jitormation

DOWNERADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALSS

INCT AUTONATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

- REASON FOR CODING (Check one and add further explanation if necessary

Divulging the identity of Source will have an adverse effect on

national security (Confidential Source).

Source wished to remain anonymous

The Source, refusts

Include reason, if given,

re de confronted and wishes

to remain anonymous

THIS OY SHAST IS NOT PART OF THE IN STODIVE MILE:

DA: FORM 2357-R, 1 SEP 60

CLASSIFI

3EL

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 8

---

## Page 9

TErren-ton

22221

SUBJECHA SCHSSA, Robert (U)

sSicS 503936186

DOB. 4 Apr 11 1936

PODs Bronx, New Lork, New Tork

Dossier Tuber K-016940

Key Symbol Identity (as pertains to this case only)

Conficential Source SanFrancisco I-U-L100 refers to the lestern Rosentat

Poundation, SanFrancisco, California.

Contential Source Oakland I-1-1016 refers to the Alaseda County District

Attorney's Office, lakland, Calliomia.

Confidential Source Berkeley I-A-10l4 refers to the Oaklard Police Department,

Subversive Files.

IT IS AS DREASE

AR 357

Cords

red in sace rte cuncele

poddence:

Key Sheets will le belided in control ana central

files. only

DOR NETATTO AT 19 ISAR INTERVALS

NOT NUTCHATICELEY

CON DIE 520019

3FL

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 9

---

## Page 10

BLASS TEN CITRON

3060061

REY, SHEET

192(A5. 381-131)

2. DATE OF BIRTIT

pril 1936

BORATE, PORKARDED

$ 22 dure 1951

ACE (O3-21

A Brotes, Mouion,

LICKEL SYMENED ENVITE

DOSSIER NOSED

50-0162940

WONT OF SOURCE

5. POSITION OTISCUROL INKROBATICUSHTANTG

SUBUECT Vice charcot

on of Student

Astirs, Inversition Calstonte, Borkal

A EVALUATION OF SOURCE, AND INFORMATION GIVEN:

A bot ceof totormation congemire student alfetrati

adironda,

Berkeloy Call corte Intormation on ruden a tore

athta of too infveretty of californie Sudent Affaire)

REASON FOR CODINC Check one and add further exslanation trinecessar

As soilerg the identitylor Source will have an adverselect

nationat security. (Confidential Source).

The Soune soruses to ine rented and wishen to remain.

Include reason, if river.

toiler.

DOINGRADEDIAT M

LAR INTERVING

NOT AUTOMATCAS

INECLASSIFIEO

DOg

*2C0M0

FOR 2357-047 SET 60

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 10

---

## Page 11

20

SEBARCH

Peat Roberti

CON IDENTIAL

KEY SHABET

1A3: 381-344

a. DATE CO BERTY MI

b April 1935

3. FLACE OR STON

terror

DOSSTER MUSE

3. DATS FORWARDSO

1 Aurist 1951

82-01 5910

MANS OF SOURS

kestere Fesearchi Poin ation

Serantisco California

PEVALINTEION OF SOURCE AND INFORVATION GIVEN

KIT SINSOL TO EVE

San Francis 0 T-3- 1100

S. PUSITION

SUBJECT

CE SOURCE IN PELATIC SEIZENO

Tbolt1-1al Agency servingias al

SEITIe

me eases provided relatin infomatica in the pasta fee octedna taro ma

tron

Tipping some: 500 publications

and fron otter lost agencies

DONNGRADTO AT 12 YEAR INEERVASS

NO: AUTOHARGALE OSCLOSSIMEO

Dou Dia

329010

REASON FOR CODING (Cher, one and ase further explanation if necessary)

Divulging the identity of Source will have an adverse effect on

national security (Schidential Source) -

Sourres wisten to remin enorizaus

The Source refuses to te

Include reason, in river.

-onted and wishes to fero anonynous

DA TOY 2357-R1 1 SEP 50

SLASSAFICATION

CONFIDENTAL

3H

NW 64954 Docld:34517440 Page 11

---

