AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

” SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS,

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 1

Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
\

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10001-10120

DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AC678001R - PAGES 2396-2407

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SCREENING BOARD, PANEL NO. 2
DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEF
MEMORANDUM

08/04/70

12

SECURITY CLEARANCE RECOMMENDATION

WERBELL, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON,
ERIC WILSON, ERIC STRAFF

III - AKA: ALEX WILSON,

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SRCREE
3

: RELERGED-WEEH DELETIONS

09/12/97

COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY OASD

COORDINATION WITH OASD HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 12 SEP 97.

992 (44 USC 2107 Note], CasettNw
B49 20

11/03/98
1


EXCLUDED fF;

C SEGREF c

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Security Policy)

1870
FROM: Screening Board, Panel No. 2 4 AUG

SUBJECT: WERBELL, Mitchell Livingston, IIT CASE NO: OSD 69-59
AKA: Alex Wilson, Eric Wilson,
- Erie Straff

1. (FOUO) Applicant has been employed by Sionics, Inc., Atlante,
Georgia, since August 1967, as a Vice President and Director of
Research and Development of Exotic Weaponery.

Qo (FOUO) Extant clearance of Applicant as set forth by the file:
None. Requested: Secret, Submitted pursuant to Criterion N, DoD
Directive 5220.6, dated December 7, 1966. Type of ‘Investigation:
Expanded National Agency Check completed by Air Force on December 30,
1968; FBI check completed on May 13, 1968, reflects Applicant was
arrested on March 1, 1967 for conspiracy to violate the U.S. Neutrality
Act.

3. San members of the Panel have read and evaluated the contents
of the case file attached hereto. Pertinent information in the file
regarding Applicant includes the following:

a. (FOUO) Applicant, a 52 year old married male born
March 8, 1918 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, presently lives in
Powder Springs, Georgia. His Personnel Security Questionnaire
(PSQ) reflects honorable’ service in the U.S. Army from July 21, 1942
to December 30, 1952.

be (FOUO) Applicant was arrested on March 1, 1967, at
Atlantic, Georgia, onza Federal Warrant issued by the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of Florida, on a charge of conspiring
with six other persons to violate the U.S. Neutrality Act. Although
investigative report indicates the charges were dismissed on March 23,
1968, & newspaper article in file and Applicant's statement on
addendum sheet to DD Form 48 convince us that the charges were, in
fact, dismissed in 1967, soon after Applicant's indictment and immedi-
ately after he voluntarily appeared in answer to a Federal Warrant
on March 1, 1967. .

ROM Auto,
1G: DoD pg ATIC

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 2


. SERE-

c.  ,(FOUO) Mr. Stanley Schacter, Assistant Customs Agent
in Charge, Miami, Florida, advised on April 28, 1969 that Applicant
came into the conspiracy to export arms and men to aid the overthrow
of the Haitian government during the early part of 1966. Applicant
had previously been to the Dominican Republic during the upheaval
there and had come into contact with a freelance photographer and
writer named Andrew St. George, who subsequently int@rduced Applicant
to one of the ringleaders of the conspiracy~-Rolando Masferrer, This
meeting allegedly took place at Applicant's home in Powder Springs,
Georgia. He identified the two main leaders in the conspiracy as
Masferrer and Father Jean Baptiste Georges. Applicant was allegedly
recruited for the purpose of securing a boat to be used.in the shipment
of men and equipment to the Dominican Republic and eventually to Haiti,
and also to secure a base in the Dominican Republic adjacent to Haiti.
He said Applicant became actively involved in these tasks and managed
to secure a boat, the "Poor Richard" in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and
sent an emissary to the Dominican Republic in an effort to secure a
base, He stated the U.S. Marshall eventually put a lien on the vessel
after it was taken to Key Largo, Florida. The lien was allegedly for
default of payment. He advised that to the best of his knowledge,
Applicant participated in meetings concerning the conspiracy in Florida,
and at his home in Georgia. According to Schacter, Applicant probably
had nothing to do with the purchasing of arms for the conspiracy and
had nothing to do with the training exercises which were held in South
Dade County, Florida, and possibly in New Jersey. He stated the conspiracy
was broken on January 2, 1967 when seventy (70) of the individuals in-
volved were arrested. He advised Applicant was not one of those arrested
on January 2, 1967, but was arrested later on a warrant. He further
advised that indictments were drawn up only on the leaders of the con-
spiracy, including Applicant. He stated all the individuals indicted
were convicted with the exception of Applicant, who had charges against
him dismissed. He stated he had no idea why the charges were dismissed
as the U.S. Attorney did not inform him of the reasons. He did not
know if Applicant was on the payroll of another U.S. government agency
either before or during the conspiracy.

dy Te). An FBI informant in July 1966, advised that a Columbia
Broadcasting System (CBS) team reportedly filmed phase one of a docu-
mentary in Coral Gables, Florida in about June 1966 involving the
colléction and shipment of arms from the United States destined for
Haitian rebel forces, outside the United States. Applicant, as Alex
Wilson, reportedly met the team and served as guide. Phase two which
never materialized reportedly was to be the bombing of Duvalier's

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 3


palace at Port-au-Prince and signal the start of the revolution.
According to hearsay information, Alex Wilson (Applicant) had des-
cribed himself as a former associate of CIA and pitior thereto as
associated with OSS, Alex Wilson (Applicant), moreover, it was
stated was well known in Santo Domingo and is held in high respect
there. No decision had been made by CBS headquarters, New York,
to show, or not to show, the completed documentary.

e. (FOUO) The U.S. Attorney, Miami, Florida advised on
May 8, 1969, that the dismissal of charges against Applicant on
March 23, 1967 was on "legal grounds," but that he was unable to
furnish any further information or explanation of details due to the
fact that the co-defendants are in process of appealing their con-
victions.

f. sya page proof copy of the transcript of testimony of
Applicant and witnesses appearing before the Special Subcommittee on
Investigations, Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, House
of ‘Representatives conducted in July, September and November 1969 and
February and April 1970, entitled "Project Nassau," Serial No. 91,
concerning the involvement of CBS in an invasion conspiracy reflects
that:

(1) Applicant was indicted along with six others as
a co-conspirator to violate the neutrality statues, Title 18, United
States Code, Section 960, and the Munitions Control Act, which is
22 U.S.C. 1934. Applicant was later dropped from the suit for reasons
not indicated in the hearing or the file.

(2) The main function of Applicant in the operation
was to obtain a base in the Dominican Republic from which an invasion
could be launched irito Haiti/Cuba. To this end, Applicant was to
go to the Dominican Republic ahead of time and obtain:this base.
Applicant did not go there personally but sent a friend of. his, Adolos
Cobos, to attempt to make the arrangements for the base. Because of
the political climate in the Dominican Republic at the time, arrange-
ments for a base were unsuccessful.

(3) Applicant was the principal in leasing a 68 foot
schooner, the "Poor Richard" at Fort Lauderdale, Florida which re-
portedly was to be used to transport arms and ammunition in the in-
vasion effort. The schooner was first brought to Miami and later
taken to Ocean Reef where it was subsequently impounded by the U.S.
Marshall's Office because of a lien on the vessel.

Zea
3.¥

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 4



(4) Applicant has his own personal boat brought from
Powder Springs, Georgia, where he lived, to Miami, and then to
Ocean Reef, to augment the Poor Richard as a "camera boat end life
boat" if needed. Prior to transporting his boat to Florida the
boat was used in the filming of loading of weapons aboard at Powder
Springs, Georgia. This, however, was a staged activity for the
benefit of CBS and the weapons were not involved in the invasion
effort but returned to their owners after the filming. ~

(5) CBS letter dated August 11, 1969 to the Committee
advised that there was no written agreement of employment between
Applicant and CBS, however, some monies for "expenses" were paid
Applicant by CBS. Testimony of sources indicated that Applicant
implied sanction of a U.S. Government agency for the invasion and a
daily contact with the "Company" (CIA). There is no probative evi-
dence to indicate that Applicant ever stated he was a CIA representa-
tive at that time but he did indicate previous affiliation with CIA.
Moreover, Applicant reportedly stated to CBS representatives that he
had a base in the Dominican Republic from which CIA operated boats,
some going from there to Cuba and allegedly showed pictures of some
of the boats.

(6) Sometime in September or possibly October 1966,
Applicant with others met with Eugene Maximillian, the Haitian consul
in Miami to discuss the impending invasion of Haiti. Applicant had
a recording device concealed 6n his person and the conversations were
recorded, whereby they discussed with Maximillian, the possibilities
of overthrowing President (Papa Doc) Duvalier and if he might cooperate,
establishing him in some choice post later on. They also reportedly
offered to abort the invasion if Papa Doc would come up with $200,000.00.
At a later date, they tried to blackmail Maximillian by telling him
they had this tape which they would make available to Papa Doc if
he didn't come across.

a & (FOUO) On June 16, 1970 Mr. James P. Morris, Criminal
Section, Internal Security Division, Department of Justice, advised
that the charges against Applicant were dismissed for technical rea-
sons which had nothing to do with guilt-or innocence. Mr. Morris
declined to make any further statements concerning the dismissal or
the charges.

he tS) on January 25, 1966, Mr. Robert H. Fleming, Chief of
the Washington News Bureau, American Broadcasting Company, furnished

D.

DOLAES

IW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 5


the following information to the FBI. John Casserly, their corre-
spondent in the Dominican Republic had been approached by Applicant
saying he had a plan to assassinate Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba.
Applicant had told Casserly that he had been in Cuba on recent occa-
sions "as a private citizen" but that he would not enter that country
in execution of his plan. He would direct the assissination from some
point outside Cuba. Andrew St. George, freelance photographer and
journalist, would enter Cuba to film the ass@ssination. St. George
was -interviewed by the FBI and verified this story. On February 10,
1966, Applicant was interviewed by the FBI and stated he had no such
plan himself but chaimed that he had limited knowledge of such a plan
that had been formulated by Ricardo Zaragusa, who died in New York
City in December 195. Zaragusa's death put an end to the plan
according to Applicant.

i. CS) In interviews with FBI agents on January 29, and 30,
1968, a source of unknown reliability advised that he was introduced
to the reported leader of the Second National Front of Escranbray
(SNFE), an anti-Castro Cuban revolutionary organization with head-
quarters in Miami. The source reported that during his conversations
with the individual he heard that SNFE collects money from Cuban exiles
onithe premise that the organization will take some ‘type of military
action against the Castro government in Cuba and that Applicant was
named as being in charge of making arrangements to obtain necessary arms
and ammunition.

de (8) An investigative report shows that a pistol found in
the car of a suspect apprehended in Miami, Florida, belonged to Appli-
cant. Applicant admitted that he purchased the pistol in Florida for
his own use and that he signed the gun registration certificate Alex
Wilson and Alex J. Wilson. He claimed he has been known to many of his
friends and Central Intelligence Agency officials by the name of Alex
Wilson. He stated that when he was purchasing the pistol there were
Cubans in the shop. Since the name of Werbell was well known to many
Cubans and to avoid them hearing the Werbell name and bothering him,
he gave the name of Alex Wilson.. Applicant claimed that he left the
pistol at a friend's house and later told the individual who was appre-
hended that he could borrow it for use to protect his home which had
been robbed earlier and to pick it up at the house of the friend. Wo
action against Applicant was indicated.

ke (8 FBI report indicates that on February 20, 1967, Appli-

cant advised FBI that he was informed of a plan to assassinate an
unidentified middle-east ruler or member of his family living or

2acy

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 6


visiting in the U.S, Investigation indicated that Ibu Saud, half-
brother of King Faisal Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, at that time attend-
ing the University of Redlands, Redlands, California and living in «+
Redlands, may have been the intended victim of this reported con-
spiracy which was never actually substantiated.

acy (FOUO) An investigation requested by Commander, Eglin
Air Force Base, Florida was initiated on July 7, 1969 to determine
circumstances surrounding importation of 3 boxes of captured enemy
weapons by a Lt. Colonel Paul Arnold Marriott, USAF. Two boxes con-
taining a total of 21 weapons, 5 noise suppressors and related equip-
ment which was marked for Marriott, was seized at Eglin AFB. The
Deputy Commander, AFATL, advised his agency was queried by ARPA, a DoD.
agency, about a box of weapons sent through ARPA channels. The investi-
gation showed further that Marriott had sent 12 weapons to Eglin AFB
from SEA while he was on TDY in Vietnam in November 1968. Eleven of
these weapons were subsequently shipped from Eglin AFB to Sionics,
Atlanta, Georgia, at Marriott's request. The information of record
shows that Applicant is the Vice President and Director of R&D for
Sionics, The firm holds Federal Firearms license which expires
March 31, 1970 as a manufacturer of firearms other than destructive
devices; a license which expires May 18, 1970 as an importer of fire-
arms other than destructive devices; a special occupational tax stamp
as a Class I Manufacturer (Firearms), and a Class I Importer (Firearms)
both issued for period beginning July 1, 1969. According to Sionics,
they were a registered importer under the Munitions and Control Act,
registered importer withthe U.S. State Department. The investigation
shows that Applicant visited Vietnam in September 1968 and remained
until June 1969 and that he visited Thailand between January and June
1969 for the purpose of demonstrating “Sound Suppressors” manufactured
by Sionics., The visit reportedly was authorized by the State Depart-
ment, Munitions Control, Washington, D.C. Applicant was also reportedly
authorized to take and send weapons and sound suppressors for demon-
strations, however, he had nothing in writing from the State Department.
In the course of his travels in Vietnam, Applicant acquired 12 captured
enemy weapons between September and November 1968, reportedly given him
by General Dong of the South Vietnamese Army and other authorized sources.
Apparently no application for importation of the firearms into the U.S.
was made. Lt. Colonel Marriott while on TDY in Vietnam was assigned
to assist Applicant. Reportedly, Marriott at that time, indicated to
Applicant that he wanted some weapons for the Air Force museum and
Applicant advised Marriott he wanted some weapons for research pur-
Poses. Before Marriott returned to Eglin AFB it was agreed that
captured weapons would be sent to Marfiott for displaying in the museum

2ar os

nen ye

SULEDULE

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 7


r

| =

and Applicant hoped, at that time, that arrangements could be made

to transfer any of the weapons not used by the museum to Sionics

for research purposes. During the next’ few months two additional

cases of weapons were authorized for shipment and shipped through

Air Force channels, to Lt.Colonel Marriott at Eglin AFB. The

record shows that Lt.Colonel Marriott on or about April 11, 1969

shipped from Eglin AFB five firearms to Sionics which were obtained

in Vietnam and sent to the U.S. along with 15 other items which

Sionics had sent to Vietnam earlier, Sionics had not applied or re-
ceived authorization to import these firearms, The record also shows that
two additional boxes of firearms were authorized to be shipped to Eglin
AFB from Vietnam during June 1969, at the request of Applicant for museum
purposes. All weapons were taken into custody by the Air Force.

mM Wh Information from OSI, Republic of Vietnam revealed
that on April 29, 1969, Colonel William M. Fagan, Commander, Detach-
UL’ ment 6, 7th Air Force (DAFSC), Tan Son Nhut Air Base, Republic of

Vietnam, advised that Werbell, who is Vice President of Sionics, Inc.,

Powder Springs, Georgia, arrived in RVN to demonstrate Noise and

Flash Suppressor Assemblies for the M-16 ¢ifle as well as other fire-

arms equipment. Fagan arranged to provide Werbell with a MACV Identi-

fication and Privilege Card, which Werbell received with an equivalent
grade of GS-16 noted thereon, Werbell did demonstrate his equipment

to various military agencies in RVN, after which Fagan understood he

was to return to the U.S, Fagan was unable to locate Werbell for some
time, but eventually learned he had travelled to Korea and Thailand
demonstrating his equipment. This travel was not part of the agreement,
and as a result, Fagan began to make inquiries, He contacted various
individuals in the US% and Thailand and discovered that Werbell
arrived in RVN in an unofficial status, with no security clearance. He
further learned Werbell had been using his MACV card, with the mention
of a few alleged friendships with U.S. Senators and Generals, includ-
ing Air Force Chief of Staff, General McConnell, to meet high ranking
individuals of the Thailand and Korean governments. Fagan also ad-
vised Werbell is alleged to have stated he worked for the CIA in
various assignments and told Colonel John V. Patterson, Deputy Director,

OSD/ARPA, Thailand, that he was in that country to confer with American

Embassy officials on a classified task, With no official sponsorship

or endorsements, Werbell has been extremely active demonstrating his

company's products and conferring with several ranking officials of
the Thailand Supreme Command. He has influenced Air Chief Marshall

Dawee, Chief of Staff, Thailand Supreme Command, to request technical

assistance from the Uss. Army in setting up a sniper school, using

Sionics equipment. Colonel Fagan's primary interest in this matter

2ave

SECREF

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 8


was that of locating Werbell and confiscating the MACV Identification

Card. He located Werbell in Bangkok on May 8, 1969, and recovered the
ad MACV ID Card. Colonel Fagan and Colonel Patterson believed that Werbell

was acting opportunistically, and believed his agency name dropping is

a perfected technique to insure assistance,

The (Fouo) The majority of sources interviewed in the course of
this Air Force investigation expressed reservations with respect to
Applicant's business ethics and that of Sionics, Inc. They characterized
Applicant as unscrupulous, a wheeler-dealer, a name dropper, and a high
pressure promotion man, As an example,oin about July 1968 Applicant
demonstrated a pistol silencer and flash supressor by shooting in a
hotel room in Washington, D.C.

O. (Fouo) A report in the file furnished by the Internal Re-
venue Service, Southeast Region, Assistant Commissioner (Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms), dated October 7, 1969, stated Sionics is in the business
of developing and manufacturing silencers for sale to United States Mili-
tary Units and United States Allies. Although there are apparent vio-
lations of Title XX of The Gun Control Act of 1968, it appears from
talking to Mr. Werbell that on the part of Sionics, they were wninten-
tional. Mr, Werbell stated that prior to the passing of the Gun Control
Act of 1968, the procedure used in exporting and importing the firearms
was the acceptable method with the State Department,

Pp.  SLCIA advised that Applicant has never worked or been

oo associated with the CIA although the CIA is aware of his tendency to
pose as a CIA or former CIA agent. Applicant was a member of the OSS
for a short period in 1945. Tn January 1969, Time Magazine contained
an article on Applicant as stating that if he ever becomes involved in
any serious difficulty, CIA or DIA would help him out. CIA complained
to the Munitions Board regarding this statement, The Board indicated
they would attempt to take some action against Applicant but this was
not done. Applicant is characterized iin CIA's files as "an unscru-
pulous con-man, and a wheeler-dealer" who constantly imposes upon
those around him,

iN

Qe (FoUO), An item in the Evening Star, Washington, D.C.,
under the date of February 14, 1970, reports that en Air Force announce-
ment said Lt. Colonel Marriott's activities concerning his being sus-
pected of helping to smuggle captured Viet Cong weapons into the United
States from Vietnam "were found clear of any illegal or unauthorized acts
on his part and no disciplinary or administrative actions have been or
will be taken."

2403

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 9


C SRE 5

9

Le (FOUO) A local agency credit check: revealed the following:
(1) Credit Bureau of Atlanta, Inc., listed on June 6,
1968, the following accounts that had been listed with them for
collection against Applicant:

(a) March 12, 1956, Bandas Bazar. No company
by this name could be found in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; $54.80.

(b) May 26, 1958, Bishops Office Equipment,
Orlando, Florida, $100.00. Bishop Company records fail to reveal
this debt.

: (c) July 14, 1962, Dr. Wm. L. Eubanks; $18.00.
This account paid in full on July 25, 1965.

(ad) HolidayInn, Atlanta, Georgia; $75.69. Credit
Bureau says no payments made and account considered open and unsétis-
factory. No check made with company records.

(e) Monaco, Inc.; $28.11. Credit Bureau says
open and unsatisfactory. No check made with company records.

(2) Two tax liens have been imposed against Applicant

as follows:
(a) Income tax for Lien filed

(b) Withholding tax for

December 8, 195).

Both liens have expired without renewal. No further
action contemplated.

Se (FoUO) On July 9, 1968, Harold E. Watson, Major General,
i USAF, Retired, a representative of Sionics, Inc., was interviewed
concerning Applicant. He advised that he had met Applicant about 5
years ago when he (source) was connected with General Electric Com-
pany (GE) in connection with GE interest in mass-produced housing in
the Dominican Republic. Watson indicated he had no direct knowledge
that Applicant was involved in anti-Castro activities but only through
hearsay. Applicant was described by Watson as an avid gun fancier

Zara

SECRET

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 10


: < -geerer :

10

and most qualified in the technical aspects of firearms. Applicant
apparently has interested the Army (Ft. Benning) in his ideas in the
filled of noise reduction (silencers) on weapons and in this connec-
tion set up the firm Sionics in Atlanta, Georgia. Watson indicated
he considered Applicant completely honest, trustworthy and loyal
and unreservedly recommended him for a position of trust.

te (FOUO) Three references have been interviewed. The first
knew Applicant from 1950-1953 when they were in the advertising busi-
ness together. He has had occasional to frequent contact with Appli-
cant from 1953 to date. He spoke highly of Applicant and would
recommend him. The second person had known Applicant since 1951. He
was one of Applicant's employees in 1956 when Applicant's advertising
agency went bankrupt. He spoke highly of Applicant and would recommend
him. The third has known Applicant since 1955 when he became attorney
for Sionies, Inc. He: describes Applicant as an adventurer and frus-
trated inventor but felt that Applicant was loyal, honest, trustworthy
and he would recommend him.

Ue (FOUO) A neighborhood check of Applicant reveals no ad-
verse information. One friend and neighbor since 1962 was inter-
viewed and described Applicant as honest, trustworthy, extremely
capable, and loyal, and he would recommend him. He knew of Applicant's
arrest on the violation of the U.S. Neutrality Act charge. The Chief
of Police at Powder Springs, Georgia, and a local grocer were inter-
viewed and said they had known Applicant since 1949, and considered .
him loyal, trustworthy, capable and of good character, and-they would ‘
recommend him, Several years ago, they said, Applicant had had financial
reverses but that Applicant seems to have done quite well in paying off
his debts during the past two years.

4 Rationale: (FOUO) ,

The Board has carefully considered and evaluated Applicant's
reported involvements in various activities of a questionable and
possibly criminal nature. The major issues of this case revolve
around: (1) Applicant's involvement/arrest for violation of the U.S.
Neutrality Act; (2) his reported activities or association with the
SNFE; (3) his involvement in alleged smuggling/illegal importation

of weapons from Vietnam; and (4) his past financial difficulties.

The record establishes that between June and November 1966,
Applicant actively participated in a conspiracy to violate the U.S.
Neutrality Act. He was indicted with six other co-cospirators.

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 11


7 SECRET

1

Although the six other co-conspirators were convicted the charges
against Applicant were dismissed "on a legal technicality" with no
further details provided. According to information of record, *
Applicant reportedly has also been engaged in shipping arms and
ammunition to revoluntionary groups in the Caribbean area and
affiliated with such groups. The file also shows that he pur-
chased a pistol in Florida signing the gun registration certifi-
cate as Alex Wilson and the pistol was subsequently found in the
possession of a "friend" who was apprehended by the police. In
addition, in 1969 Applicant was involved in an Air Force investi-
gation of alleged smuggling of weapons from Vietnam. He apparently
violated the Gun Control Act of 1968 at this time, but no action
was taken since the violation "appeared uninténtional." The Air
Force officer with whom Applicant was involved in the alleged
smuggling was found clear of any illegal or unauthorized acts and
no disciplinary or administrative actions were taken against the
officer.

The information of record establishes a history of activities
of a very suspicious nature on the part of Applicant. These activi-
ties of questionable legality, while yet apparently not transcending
the lawful limits, strongly suggest less than ethical business
practices over an extended period of time. There is no information
to show that any of these activities were in behalf of a U.S. Govern-
ment agency.

The file indicates Applicant used a perfected technique of
"name dropping," flagrantly imposed on those around him, and employed
subterfuge to assure cooperation and assistance in his questionable
promotional schemes, His modus operandi causes the Board to have seri-
ous reservations as to his integrity and trustworthiness, There is
no information.in the file which would show, with reasonable certainty,
that his pattern of questionable conduct is at end. On the contrary,
because of the pattern of his activities over an extended period of
time it appears more reasonable to conclude that he will continue in
‘his im ‘ments in questionable undertakings. This, in turn, could
cause action contrary to the national interest. In short, the very
nature and extent of Applicant's past activities as shown in the
record leads us to believe that he is an opportunist. His demonstrated
lack of integrity, ethics, and trustworthiriess strongly suggests that
on his own motion or at the instance of others, colored or motivated
by self interests, Applicant might: easily be influenced to engage in
activities inimical to ‘the national interest.

2406 peer

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL
TON SCHEDULE

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 12


It appears that Applicant's financial problems of the past
have been resolved and the tax liens against him satisfied. This,
in and of itself, due to lack of recency, appears to have little,
if any, security import at this time. The recurrenée of future
financial problems and possible effect therefrom is unpredictable
and any comments thereon would be purely speculative.

In view of 411 the information of record and:on an overall
common sense basis, mindful of the various circumstances shown, the
Board considers Applicant's conduct over the years of such gravity
and significance as to render him unworthy of a security clearance
at this time,

De (FOUO) Upon’ the basis of the information available to it, the
Screening Board finds:

ae A determination in Applicant's favor is not warranted.

vb Further investigation, personal interview, or written
interrogatory is not requiréd.

Ce A Statement of Reasons, attached hereto, should be issued.

6. (FOUO) There is no evidence in the record that Applicant currently
has a security clearance at any ievel,

s
han Ken tb ube,
Jon Kiselyk, CHairman

Zoe)

William L. Ewbank, Member

Darrel G. Costello, Member

ON SCHED: ULAR

NW 64954 Docld:34517456 Page 13
