# docid-34517375

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

Case#:NW 64954 Date:

11-14-2022

Date

Page

: 11/03/98

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10284

RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : C6013559P - PAGES 223-236

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE : UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION

DATE: 03/07/49

PAGES : 14

SUBJECTS : VERA ONICK

VERA ORLOFF

MRS. FRED WILLIAM ONICK

LOYALTY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

WILLIAM ONICK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, 3, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/02/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI

COMMENTS : CCORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 5 NOV 1997.

NW 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

JUST CE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

-

CONE EDENTFAL

Title:

VERA ONICK, aka Vera Orloff,

Mrs. Fred William Oniol

Clerk Stenographer - Appointee

San Francisco Port of Embarkation

Department of the Army

Fort Mason, California

LOYALTY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING;

DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

5-8-96

PLASSIFIED BYS 668 SLOUISR

DECLASSIFY CIN. 25X1, 6

JFK)

TO BY FELLSK TASK FORCE!

12102 de

ALAN PART

FATAL DEMAL

Report of: Special Agent Ploya B. Barris

Date and Place:

March 7, 1949

San Francisco, California

This report and its

contents

are loaned to you by the FBI

and are not to be distributed

outside of

agency to which

loaned. This is the result of

a request for an FBI file check

and is not to be considered as

Clearance®

223

SE

PROPERTY OF FBI

This confikastiat report and its

contents are loaned to you by the

FBI and are not to be distributed

outside of agency to which loaned

NENSIN IS UNCI/SSIFIER

LiCEOT INHERE SHOWN

dirswISE

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 2

---

## Page 3

VERA ONICK, aka Vera Orloff,

Mrs • Fred Willian Onick

Clerk Stenographer • Appointee

Son Francisco Port of Embarkation

Department of the Army

Fort Mason, California

LOYALTY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

CONFIDENTIAL

San Francisco, California

March 7, 1949

I. PERSONAL HISTORY

Appointee's Loyalty Data Form reflects her to have been born

arch 2us: 1923, San Franoisco, California, She attended the Jamalpais

Union

High School, Mill Valley, California 1938 to 1941, and the Callio

ornia Seoretarial School, San Francisco, from September 1941 to June 19420

Began employment with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Federal

Office Building, San Francisco, in July 1942, where she worked until

September 1943, at which time she transferred to the District Supply

Office, U. S. Navy, Twelfth Naval District, San Francisco.

She worked

at this position until May 1947. From May 1947 until November 1948, she

was unemployed and residod with her parents at 3667 - 18th Street, San

Francisco. She received an appointment as Clerk Stenographer with the

San Francisco Port of Embarkation, Fort Mason, California, on November 19,

1948• She is divorced from FRED WILLIAM ONICK®

Confidential informant San Francisco I-1, who is acquainted with

tho appointee, advised that appointee has a daughter born Docember 4, 19/47,

and that she still resides with her parents at 3667 - 18th Street, San

Francisco, Californie®

II. BASIS FOR INVESTIGACION

The San Francisco Chronicle, a San Franoisco daily newspaper,

on December 26, 1945, carried a picture identified as VERA ORIOFF and her

sister, OLGA, and that of Mrs. MICHAIL S. VAVIIOV, wife of the Russian

Consul General of San Francisco.

The article accompanying this pioture

stated that the

three had been planning details of a celebration on New

Year's Eve, which event would mark the finis to a victory loan drive,

which event

California+

being sponsored by the All-slavic Council of Northern

TIRE

224

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Confidential Informant San Francisco T-5, who is familiar with

Slavic activities in the San Frencisco Bay aroa, and has provided reliable

information in the past, advisod that the All-Slavio Council of Northern

California was formed in 1942 as an outgrowth of the All-Slay Committee.

It

presently functions as a fund-raising group and annually promotes the All-

Slavic New Year's Eve ball for the benefit of the Russian, Yugoslav and

Czechoslovak nationality groups, heving representation in the Council.

previous years, although known Communists are members of this organization,

relatively little pressure had been exerted by those members to influence

this organization.

This organization is not officially connected with the

American Slav Congress in New York City, although the American Slav Congress

has always tried to exert pressure on this organizations

I-5 stated that

the newly elected officers of the All-Slavic Council of Northern California

for 1918 are dofinitely pro-Communist or Communist Party members- As a

result of the election of officers for 1948, the members of the Czechoslovak

nationality who are not Communists or Communist sympathizers have withdrawn

from the Council®

I-5 believes that the Council will probably in the near

future affiliate itself offioially with the American Slav Congress in New

York, He stated that the American Slav Congress in New. York is definitely

controlled by Communists.

III. RESULTS OF INVESTIGATTON

There is attached a photostatic copy of the picture of appointee,

her sister, OLGA,

and Mrs. MICHAIL, S. VAVILOV, appearing in the San Fran-

cisco Chronicle December 26, 1945, which was referred to in the Basis for

this investigation.

Confidential informant SF-1159, a reliable informant who declines

to furnish a signed statement or appear before a Loyalty Hearing Board,

advised that in I9lil appointee was known to him as a member of the Russion

American Society in San Francisco, and that she had taken part in a meet

ing of that

society held November 11, l9y4 celebrating the Iwenty-Seventh

Anniversary of the Soviet Union.

This informant adrised that ho knew appointee's father, JOHN

ORLOFF, to have been

extremely active in the Russian American Society

in San

Francisco from 1945 and to have acted as Treasurer part of this

timeo

He described ORLOFF as ambitious and stubborn and always desirous

of boing the leader. He stated that inasmuch as ORLOFF could not replace

VICTOR ARNAUTOFF as President of the Russian American Society, he devoted

his attention to the All-Slavie Council of Northern California; however,

he continued his membership in the Russian American Society. In the All-

225

=2-

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Slario Conoil of Northern California he was elected Fresident on Jenuary 28,

194B, which position he has oscupied to the present time. He stated that

ORLOFF had considereble contact with members of the Russian Consulate in

San Francisco prior to its closing in the fall of 1948. He stated that in

November of 1946 JOINT ORLOFP attended a nooting of the Russian Aneri can

Socioty, at which time he reported on his personal impressions of the All-

Slav Congross hold in the summer of 1946 in Now York City•

He remarked over

the great enthusiasm with which STALIN and TIIO's messages to the Congress

were received. Informant further stated that at this nesting, ORLOY

distributed two bottlos of hussian made vodka to those present at the

meeting for the purposo of drinking a toast to Comrade STALIN• The vodka

had been a gift of former San Francisco Consul General JACOB LOMAKIE,

whom ORLOFF had seen in New York City•

Informant stated that JOHN ORLOFF had told him that in July 1944

three Russian engineers hed visited the faetory of the A. Liet? Company in

San Franoisco, which company manufactures nautical and surveying instruments.

He stated that these engineers had been taken on a tour of the factory by

a representative of the company, and one of them indicated an interest in

a magnotio neodle and wanted to know the metal fron which 1t was made.

ORLOFP told the informant that he had been the translator, and that the

company official leading the tour at the faotory refused to

furnish this

information to the Russian ongineer, saying that it was seoret. ORLOFF

told intornant that he then told the Russian engineer, In Russian, that

the motel was not secret because all the workers knew

about it, and that he,

ho could furnish no additional information in this rogard.

SF-1169 advised that in July 1947 at a meeting of tho Connunist

Party faction within the Fussias American Society, it had been recommended

that JOHN ORLOPP be recruited into the Communist Farty. All Farty members

present at the meeting, with the exception of one or two, had concurred

in the recommendation

Informant stated that ORLOFT subsequently declined

the invitation to join the Party, stating that ho does the work anyway,

and does not have time to attend mootings and participate in other direct

Party activities®

Informant stated that ORLOFT is definitely a Communist sympathiserg

he is an "old Socialist" and, therefore, hie ideas sometime deviate from the

actual Party line, However, he generally follows the farty line.

226

NV/. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Informant added

that ORLOFP 16 very favorable to the U.S.5.Re, and

that anything Russia does is correct to his way of thinking, and he alwaye

finds some way to justify any aot on the part of Russia. Informant expressed

the opinion that in an onergency, he thinks ORLOFF would favor Russia, but

he is not sure whether this would be reflected in any overt acts.

The Russian American Socioty was founded in San Francisco, Cale

ifornia on June 28, 1941 and was incorporated in the State of California

in Notember 1941.

Confidential informant SF-1159, who is affiliated with

the Russian American Society at San Francisco and who also was a membor of

the Communist Party, has advised that the organization was comprised of

ninety-four members as of January 1, 1948.

Informant stated that a ssotion

of the Conmunist Farty members and followers of the Communist Party 14n0,

has control of the organization. According to the informant, the emphasis

of the Russion Amorican Society activities is placed on the dissonization

of propaganda on behalf of Soviet fussia.

The Connunist Party, USA, has been declared by Attorney General

• TOM C. CLARK to be within the

purview of Executive Order 9835.

Confidential infornont SI-1180, an informant of known reliability

who declines to furnish a signed statemant or appear beforo a loyalty

Hearing Board, advised that JOHN OKLOFF in July 1944 was host to LUKO

ZAPOROCHENKO and TOVSTYKH andORLOVSHY, Consulate employees, in showing

thom around the A. Liets Company factory, San Franelsco, where ORLOFT was

employed, Informant stated that the company manufactured nautioal instru

ments, and

that, while being shown through the factory, ORLOYSHY became

interested in a certain item in the faotory and wished to take a sample

of it,. but at that tine it had not been possible to take it. Informant

stated that subsequently ORLOPY contacted Consulate employees advising

them that ho had the sample for ORLOVSEY, in which he was interested, and

was desirous of delivering it to ORIOVSHY and explain its operation.

Informant did not know just what this object consisted.

In a previous investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investiga

tion, Mr. ADOLPH LIMIZ, Prosident of the A. Lietz Company, San Francisco,

California, was contacted with reference to the instrument which JOHN

ORLOFP was allegod to have dolivered to the Russian engineers. Mr. LIBIZ

advised that the company made no instruments or equipnent which could be

considered restricted, confidential or secret.

Confidential informant, SF-1537, an infornant Inowa to be reliable

and who declines to furnish a signed statement or appear before a loyalty

Hearing. Board, advised that JOIN ORLOFY was Prosident of the All-Blav

227

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Counell of Northorn California and, in this capacity, had presided as

Chairman of a neoting hold on Fobruary 18, 1948 at the Csech-Sokol Hall,

Sen Francisco, for the purpose of making plane for the appearance of

ZLAIKO BALOROVICH, Vico Prasident end Chairnan of the Anerican-Slav

Congross. Infomant stated that BALOKOVICH' & appoarance in San Frai®

cisco was primarily for the purpose of raising funds for the support of

ERVRY WALLACE of the Third Party.

Informant stated that ORLOFF had acted

as toast-master for the BALOKOVICH banquet, which was hold at the Crech-

sokol

Hall, San Franois00, March 20, 1948.

Informant advisod that JOll ORLOPT had boon one of the wonbers

of the All-Slav Counoil of Horthorn Californie who had been elected as

a delogate to attend the Pourth Amerlean-Slav Congress, which was hold at

the Hotel stophens, Chicago, Illinois, September 24, 25, 26, 1948•

He

stated that upon his return fron Chicago, ORLOFT reported there were

1400 dologatos present at the American-Slow Congress, and that $10,000

had been collocted in order to support the Independent Progressive Party

in the election of taRY wAlLAce.

oRLorp told informant that he had been in charge of the farewell

banquet which was hold to honor the Soviet Consul General, KONSTAWTIN

BPREMOV en September to 1948 at tho Russian Fallo 321 Divisadoro Streat..

San Francisco.

Ioformant further stated that, as Presidont of the All-slav

Counoll, ORLOFT had asted as Chairmen of a neoting hold in son Francisco

on October 13, 1940 for the purpose of assisting HENRY WALLACE' & campaign®

ONLOPE spoke in behalf of the campaign and iatroduced DAVID JENKINS, Director

of the California Labor Bohoo! and President of the Anerioon fussien Institute

in San Francisco. SF-1557 further stated that JOMT ORLOFF had been in

ohargo of the VALLACE Compaign in San Francisco Insofar as all Russian

activities wore concorned.

The California Labor Schoot, the American Russian Institute i8

San Franeisco, and the Amertoon-Slav Corgross have all been declared ly

Attornoy donoral YOU C. CLARK as boing within the purview of Executive

Order 98350

Confidential informant 8F-1510, a member of the Conmunist Farty

uno la roliables advised that OLETA O'CONNOR YATES, Chairman of the

Communist Party in San Pranoisco Gounty, addressed

the Press School of

the Communist Party at the California Labor Schoolo 240 Golden Gate.

Avenue, San Franciseo, on February 225 1948g

Infomant reported that

YATES stated to the Communists that they could not relar merely booause

228

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 7

---

## Page 8

they had secured enough signatures to got the Independent Progressive

Party on the ballot in california, but that they must work all the

harder because the communists. are the core of the third farty, it is

built around Communists and Communists must be in every Independent

Progrossive Party meeting, every convention, and all unions and organiza-

tions of any kinde

Confidential informant San Francisco I-1, who is acquainted with

-potato one hey an are the de din a peation, to ha me

activities sponsored by the All-Slav Couneil of Northern California, and the

Russian American Society and other Russian groups in San Francisco.

stated that appointee and her family were acquainted with employees of tho

Russian Consulate in San Francisco prior to its closing in the fall of 1948•

He stated that appointee's parents were both born in Russia, and

that both enjoy associating with other Russian people and in speaking the

Russian language.

He stated that he did not believe that the appointee was a member

of the Cormunist Party or particularly sympathetic to Communism or that

she is particularly interested in any form of Government o

He stated that he

believed that she associated with the Russian groups because her parents

do, and that they have developed friends among the Russian people, mainly

because of their conmon background.

Informant stated that he believes appointee's father is pro»

Conmunist from the various conversations that they have had.

He stated that

he did not recall exact statements, but that he was continually upholding

Communisn and the Russian form of Government e

He stated that he had never

seen any Communist Party membership card in possession of appointee's

father.

He knows appointee's parents exert a great deal of influence over

her, which was the main reason for her divorce from FRED WILLIAM ONICK. He

stated that appointes was married to ONICK for five or six months; that

ONICK was a veteran of the Second World War; that he had continued his

National Service Life Insurance with his parents named as beneficiaries.

ONICK had planned on having his beneficiaries changed, but appointee's

father had made a big issue over the matter and had given ONICK a period

of time in which to change the beneficiaries.

Informant stated that ONICK

resented the attitudo of his father-in-law and refused to change it at

that time.

Appointee's fathor, thereupon, instructed appointee to leave

229

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NICk, which she did, and she shortly thereaftor institutod divoroo pro

codings. Me stated there were probably other differences between appointee

and her husband which might have caused them to separate, but belleves that

if appointee had defied her father on this issue there would have been no

divorce.

He stated that appointee never at any time

questioned the instructions

of her father in this respect, and that she had been taught to obey her

parents without question.

It was informant's opinion that if her fether

requested her to obtain confidential information from the Govermont, that

appointee would probably obtain same.

Informant stated that appointee separated from her husband in

May 1947 and filed for divorce in August of that same year.

He stated that

tho divoroe was not yet final. Appointee has a daughtes born December 4e

1947

This informant declined to furnish a signed statement or appear

before a Loyalty Hearing Board.

During the course of a previous investigation by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation records of the Imnigration and Naturalization

Sorvice in San Franoisco woro examined and found to reflect that on April

1940, KIRIL TOWSTIKA, also known as JOH ORLOFF, filed petition for natur

aliaation. These records reflected that he filed his declaration of.

intontion on August 23, 1937 in San Francisco and was born at Finsk, Hussia,

on May 10. 18940

He marriod his wife, ALICE, on Doeenber 31, 1919 at San

Franoi, a00 •

They have two children, VERA born March 24, 1923, and 0L0A

born Hovenber 15, 1927, both at San Francisco, ORLOFY claimed to have

entered the United States as JOIN ORLOPT in May 1911 at Detroit, Michigan,

arriving from Nova

• Scotide

His last foroign address was Kiev "Ukraine,

Russias

'He was naturalized in United States Distriot Court, San Franaisco,

July 29, 1940°

ROBERT PATON, Agent 117th CIC Detachment, San Francisco Port of

Enbarkation, Department of the Army, Fort Mason, California, made avail-

able personnel records reflecting VERA ORLOFF to have been born March 24,

3925

at San Francisco, her parents were shown as JOIN IGNATI ORLOFF, born

1n Hussia in 1895, father, and her nother as ALICE KASTEREKEN, born in.

Fussie in 1900.

Her address was shown as 3607 - 18th Street, San Fran®

cisco, California,

230

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 9

---

## Page 10

These records reflected that she bogan Foderal employment as e

Junior

Clerk-Stonographer with the Unitod States Food and Drug Adninistra

tion, Federal Security Agenoy, San Francisco, California, on July 27, 1942.

torninated this employment due to a reduction in force at the Food and

Urug Administration, and transferred to the Distriot Supply Offico, U. S.

Navy, Twelfth Navel Distriot, Staff Headquartera, San Francisco, as a Junior

Clerk-Stenographer, on Septenber 18, 1943.

These records reflect that her

name was changed to VERA NICK on November 17, 1946., She voluntarily

resigned from her employment with the Navy on lay 29, 1947, giving as her.

reason kousehold duties. On Nevember 19, 1948, she was fiven a temporary

appointment as a Clerk-Stenographer at the San

Franoisco Fort of Imbarka-

tion, Fort Mason, where she has been employed in the Personnel Section

the present time.

ALBERT H. MANGELSEN, Chief of Salary and lage Administration,

Civilian Personnel Branch, Fort Mason, advised that appointee has been

enployed

under his supervision during the period of her employment in that installation.

He stated that he has never heard hor make any remarks which would indicate

dissatisfaction with our form of loverment or sympathy with Comnunism.

He stated that she was a vory satisfactory employee and woll regarded by

hor fellow employees.

MARY SUE FRIEDMAN, Classifier fo the Civilian Personnel Branch,

Fort lason, advised that she has been acquainted with appointee during the

period of

time she has been working at Fort Mason, She stated that she.

has given dictation to appointee on numorous occasions and has engaged her

in conversation concerning her fantly, never, at any time, did she make

any romark indicating

that she or members of her family were opposed to

our Denocratic syston of Goverment or advocating any changes. Miss FRIEDIAN

stated that appointee has great admiration for her parents and particularly

her father, who drives hor to and from work,

Captaia JAIES T. HELM, United States Navy, Rotirod, 861 Sutter

Street, Apartment 601, Jar

Irancisco, California, advised that appointee

had been under his supervision during the entire

period of her employment

with the

math that he o

He said that appointee had been a very satisfactory employee

he considered hor rolloble in all respects.

He stated that he knew

appointee had associated with Russian groups in San Francisco and has heard

hor, on sumerous occasions, speak of social activities

sponsored by these

groups which she has attendod.

he stated that he was invited to, and had

attended, appointoe's wedding, which was hold in a local Russian church.

231

080

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 10

---

## Page 11

He stated that it was a large wedding and it was attended by almost the

entire Russian Group in San Francisco.

He stated that he has never heard

appolatoe make any renark that would indicate that she was opposed to our

systen of Covermment or advocating changes.

He believes her to

be thoroughly

loyal to our Govermnent.:

ALICE FRODSIN, Chief Clerk, Distriot Supply Office, Unitod States

Davy, San Francisco, advised that she, likewise, was acquainted with

appointee during the entire period of her employment with the Navy in San

Franci seo.

She statod that appointee, on nimerous occasions, spolse of

various social functions which she had attended which were sponsored by

Russian groups in San Francisco. She stated that appointee never dis-

cussed politics or the aims and purposes of the various groups with which

she was associated. She does not now whet appointee's sympathies are in

regard to our country, but stated that she has had no cocasion to question

her loyalty to this Goverment.

Mrs. GEORGS REYNOLDS, 206 Grotten Stroet, San Francisco, advised

that she was employed as a stenographer with the United States Navy in San

Frencisco during

that poriod of time that appointee was so employod.

stated that she became very well acquainted with appointee and has had

numerous discussions with here

She stated that aypoistoe had never mentioned

the polioies or aims and purposes of the various lussion groups in San Fran

oisco, but she mado montion to them on numerous occacions and stated that

sho enjoyed attending their social funetions.

She stated that appointee

did not seen concerned over the merite of the various forms of Govorment,

and it was her boliof that appointee is not particularly sympathetio to

Communi and, at the same tine, was not especially concerned about our owa

form of Coverrment.

She stated that she has rever hoard appointed make

any remark which would indicate that she was disloyal to the lovarment

of the United States.,

Mrs. REYNOLDS stated that she has heard appointee renark, on

several different occasions that her father had been sotive in some

Russian organization®

She stated that she did not recall the name of the

organization or what part he had taken in it, She declined to furnish a

signed statement or appear before a Loyalty Hearing board, stating that

the information which she had was non-specific, and that it was mainly

opinions which she had drawn through corversationg had with appointed.

- ge

232

NVV. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 11

---

## Page 12

At the Food and Drug Administration Offivo, Federal Office

Building, San Franoisco, California, Miss ANN HURSHORNS, Clerk, was colo

toetod with reference to appointee during

hor employment with that Adninise

She stated that she was well aoquainted with

the appointee; they

had worked in the sano oftico.:

She knows appointee to have been antive

in the various social functions of Russian groups in San Franoiseo•

stated that she has never heard appointee disouss any Russian activities

othor than the social funotions, and has no information which would

refleet unfavorably upon appointee's loyalty.

Mrs. EVELT KAssa, Aministrative Assistante Food and Drug

Administration, San Frenoisco, advisod she was likewise acquaintod with

appointoe during the period of hor employment with that offleo. She has

had no occasion to question appointee's loyalty and rogards her as boing

a patriotio citizen, having hoard nothing to the contrary..

ANDREW d. DROW, Assistant Chief, Food and Drug Adninistration,

San Francisco, advised that he was acquainted with appointee during her

mployment in that offico, and that he has engagod appointed in discussions

on mmerous oscasions, but thoir alscussions have beon confined, in the nost

part, to affaire of the offroo.

He stated that he has never hoard appointee

make any remarks which would indieato that ahe was sympathetio to Cormunisn

or any other foreier type of lovermment or 1000105y.

At the l'amalpale Union High Sehool, Mill Valloy, California.

Mrs. No J, WITE, Dean of Girls, made a search of her records and was

unable to find a

scholastio reoord of appointee.

She was able, however,

to find a record showing appointoe to have graduated from that sohool on

June 15g 19420

She stated that it was her recolloction that appointee had

been there sinoe 1958.

she explained that the rooord had probably been

misplacod, but she rocalled appointee as being a better-than-averago

student and ono whose conduet at school had been above reproaah, She

stated

on ab or reado, and.

that appotatoe was not radioal in hor speech or attitude, and that,

to her knowledge, she was never associated with any aotivitios which would

rofloot upon her loyalty to the loverment of the United States.

Mrs. F, STANLEY, Seoretary in Charge of Records at the Tanalpass

Union High Sehoob, stated

that she, likowise, recalled appointee attending

the high school, and regarded her as being thoroughly loyal to the lover

nont of the nited States and had never received any information to the

contrary.

-10-

233

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Mrs.

HELEN PRIEST, Registrar at the California Secretarial School,

582 Market Street, San Francisco, made available resords of that school

showing appointee to have attended from September 2, 1942 and to have talen

• secreterial courses

Nrs. FRIUST stated that she recalled appointeo as

baing

an excollent student who was never associated with any activities of

a disloyal naturos

She belloved her to be loyal to the Goverment of the

United States, Inquiry failod to roflect any other instructors at the

socrotarial school who recalled appointee.

MEG, NICHOLAS STAVATOFF, 95 Montford Avonue, Hill Valley. Calo

ifornia, advised that she was a neighbor to appointee and her family in

will Valley until the fanily moved from there in 194l. She stated that

she had taught musto to appointoe during several years prior to their

laving the neighborhood, Sho stated that she had never received any

infornation reflocting appointoo or her parents to be sympathetio to

Communisn or any other foreign typo of loverment. she balieves them to

be loyal to the Goverment of the United States.

Mrs. We 0• WALSH, 234 Bergreen, Mill Valley, advised that she

lived as neighbor to appointae and family prior to 1941.

She regards the

ontire fanily as being loyal to the Goverment of the United Statos, Inas

much as she has nevor heard anything to the contrary.

MT • WILLIAM ONICK, Rocklyad Courto Corto Madera, Narin Couxty.

California, advised that he

is the father to FRED WILLIAN UNICA, to whom

the appointes was marriod prior to their separation in lay 19470 He stated

that appointee and his son had lived in an apartment owned by hin at 3335 i

17th Stroot, San Franciece, He stated that due to the soperation of his

son: and appointee, there was considerable 1l1 fooling between the two

fanilles. He belloves that appointoe is too closely controlled by hor

parents, and that they had interfered to the point where a separation was

necessary. He advised that his son had served in the United States Army

during the seeond World War and had acoumulated considerable money, which

ho had given to him, i OVICK, efter a corious illness. Be stated that

after appointee was

married to his son, appointee"s father, JOHN ORLAFo

had instrueted his son to obtain this noney back from his fathere He stated

that his son

had given him the money during a period of time when he,

Mr, ONICho had been in dire financial cireunstances, and that i*

+22

234

NW. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 13

---

## Page 14

regarded as e sift and not a loan. He stated thet his son had considered

It as such and had refused the request of his fatherein-law, Mr. ORIOrT.

Mr • ORLOPE, thoroupon, gave his son, FRED ONICi, & period of time in whieh

to obtain this money and deposit it

to a joint socount shared by his

daughter, appointee, and her husband.

He stated that his son had refused,

ond he believes this

to have been one reason for the divorce,

Ho stated

it was his bellof that appointee was complotely doninated by her parents.

He stated that ho had no infornation indicating appointee or her

parents to be sympathetic to Commnism, but he know thon to be nembers of

the All-Slav Council of Northorn California and the Russion American society.

both in San Francisco ®

Jir • ONICK declined to furnish a signed statement or to appear

before a loyalty learing Foord in view of the family differences existing

between the two families.

Confidential informant San Francisco lol, an informant whose

rolisbillty is not known and who has lived as a neighbor to appointos and

family and is in a position to have Information concorning the family.

advised that ho had never reseived any information indicating appointee

to be sympathotle to Communion or any other foroign type of Government.

He stated that he krew her to have attended social funotions given by

various Conmunist front groupee He believes her association in those

Eroups is purely for the social activity, and not because she adhores to.

their dootrineso

Informant stated that he knew appointee's father to be an advocato

of Commundan, that he receives correspondence and magazines from various

Commanist front groupse

He was unable to recall the names of those various

groups, but recalled that in conversations with ORLOFF, he always upholds

the Communist and fussian position, and oriticizos that position taken by

the Govornment of the United Statese

This informant declined to furnish a signed statement or appear

before a Loyalty Hearing Boardy,

MY • NED FOSIER: 3534 17th Street, advised that he was acquainted

with appointee and her hüsband, FRED WILLIAM ONICK, during the

short period

they resided at 3335 - 17th Street.

Ho stated that he know that both came

fron Russian families, but that he had never heard any comment in the

neighborhood which would indicate them to be sympathotic to Communism or

opposed to our berocratic form of Governmento

235

- 12-

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 14

---

## Page 15

CONFIDENTIAL

Mrs, GEORGE Ro BANKS, 3669A = 18th Street, San Francisco, advised

that she has occupied an apartment in the same building with appointee and

her fanily, which building is owed by appointee's father.

She stated that

she has been in their home on a few cocasions and has had discussions with

the family®

Nover, at any time, have they indicated sympathy for Comnunism

or the Russian Government, and

she has no reason to question the loyalty of

any member of the family.

Confidential informants SF-3 and SP-12, both of whom are reliable

and who are faniliar with un American activities in the San Franoisco Fay

area, advised that appointee was not known to them. Appointee's father is

known to both, but they could furnish no additional information concerning

him.

Records of San Francisco T-3 and San Franoisco Tal, both of which

aro other Government agencies conducting personnel and intelligence in-

vestigations, were examined and found to contain no additional information

Records of the San Francisco Police Department were examined and

found to contain no record pertaining to appointee...

Records of the Retail Credit Association, San Francisco, were

examined and found to contain no information reflecting upon appointee?s

loyalty.

The records of Washington, P. C. I-l, contained information

concerning the appointee which has been utilizod in this investigation.

The files: of Washington, D. C. "I-2 and I-3 and the House

Committee on Un-Anerican Activities contained no record for the appointee.

Washington, Do Go I-1, I-2 and I-3 are othor governmental

investigative agencies.

The filos of the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation contained no criminal record for VERA ONICK.

236

GROUP I

Excluded fron automatio

downerading and

LeBlanellicationa

NWV. 64954

Docld:34517375 Page 15

---

