# docid-32332873

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10171

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2940-48

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68486 Date: 12-05-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/29/1959

'PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

"st forn

-263 (5-12-55

10a2-13

Reposting Ofice

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

PITTSBURGH

DOT 6/29/59

Investigative Period

5/5 - 6/23/59

Report made by

ROBERT A. VOEGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Typed By:

ban

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REFERENCES

Report of sA ROBERI A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 5/12/59.

Baltimore letter to Pittsburgh, 6/10/59 (interoffice).

-P-

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by the

Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA investigation:

PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE

brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, Younger brother

Of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is presently being utilized for

the general coverage of the Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

PG 585-C, who is well acquainted with most of Pittsburgh's

top hoodlums and who was formerly employed as a waitress

in the Red Eagle Club, once known as the Genovese Cocktail

Approved

6C opial Agent

i Charge

Copies made:

- Bureau (92-2940) 166-4719

- Jacksonville

Do not write in spaces below

19129401-48

(Info)

1

- Miami (92-163) (Info)

1

- Philadelphia (92-497) (Info)

2 - Pittsburgh (92-226)

8. JUL 2 1959

REG- 31

c. 120

Property of FBI - This report is

loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents ate

67 JUL 9 - 1959

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 0 344750

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 2

o be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

---

## Page 3

it Form

263 (5-12-55)

Reporting Office

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

PITTSBURGH

Dar0: 6/29/59

Report made by

ROBERT A. VOEGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

5/5 - 6/23/59

Typed By:

ban

SEBASTIAN JOHN L'A ROCCA, aka.

'ANTI-RACKETEERING

XSYnonsiss

REFERENCES

report of sA ROBeRt A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh,

5/12/59.

Baltimore letter to Pittsburgh, 6/10/59 (interoffice).

_P-

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by the

Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA investigation:

PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE

brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, Younger brother

Of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is presently being utilized for

the general coverage of the Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

PG 585-C, who is well acquainted with most of Pittsburgh's

top hoodlums and who was

formerly employed as a waitress

in the Red Eagle Club, once known as the Genovese Cocktail

Approved

Copies made:

(Special Agent

in Charge

Do not write in spaces below

9212940-48

Bureau (92-2940) /C6 tf71 d

Jacksonville (Info)

1

-

Miami (92-163) (Info)

1

-

Philadelphia (92-497)(Info)

2

- Pittsburgh (92-226)

JUL

2

1959

REC- 31

EX. - 124

Property of FBI -

This report is loaned to you by the

FBI, and neither it nor its contents

67 JUL 9 - 1959

# U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0 344750

o be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

10100-10081

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

Lounge, 412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh. Informant still visits

this establishment and comes in constant contact with MIKE

GENOVESE and other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element

in her role as a medium-priced prostitute. Informant is

presently travelling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow of JAKE

MINTZ, co-owner of EZZARD CHARLES, former world's heavyweight

boxing champion.

She is presently being utilized for the

coverage of the GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON interests.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a PCI who is presently very active in

Pittsburgh numbers operations and who was arrested during the

month of August, 1958, in connection with his operation.

MESSER

is intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top hoodlums and

racketeers through association with them when they began their

He is presently being utilized for coverage

of the GENOVESE-NELSON interests and is also contributing

information regarding the VOLPE brothers who are close associates

Of GENOVESE

and LA ROCCA.

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office presently

engaged in

racket activity in the city or fittsburgh who is

being utilized Ior general coverage of lottery and numbers

operations in the Pittsburgh area.

HENRY J. BARBER, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who is part owner

of the notorious gambling establishment at Chester, W.Va., known

as club 30,

who is being utilized for information concerning

the club and the interest in it of Pittsburgh hoodlums

associated with both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

MISS MARIAN FOGEL, a PCI of

the Pittsburgh Office who is being

utilized for information concerning Pittsburgh prostitution

activities and as a check on the activities of PG 585-c.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now Vice-President

of the fidelity Trust Company, Loan Department, Pittsburgh, who

is being utilized for his knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in

Pittsburgh from which he can obtain information regarding bank

loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK is also familiar

with the activities of several of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums,

particularly those of LA ROCCA, from having worked on criminal

matters for many years in the City of Pittsburgh.

HERMAN ISRAEL, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is

being utilized for information concerning the

MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, Pa., and who is

-A-

19111d

COVER PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

also furnishing information regarding tieups with the

GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

WILLIAM A. DOBKIN, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who was extremely helpful to Pittsburgh Agents

during the investigation of the RALPH KINER extortion investi-

gation several years ago and whose brother-in-law, NORMAN

FARBER, is a member of the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage, the

CIs under development are being contacted on a continuing

and regular basis so that information obtained from them

may be used on a day-to-day basis in connection with spot

surveillances of the establishments frequented by the subject

when he is in the Pittsburgh vicinity.

It is anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice-President of the

Real Estate Department of the Fidelity Trust company, Potter

Branch, in Pittsburgh, will keep the Pittsburgh Office

advised of any new developments concerning the commenced

construction of a motel financed

• by MIKE GENOVESE and ARTHUR

D. NELSON in the Monroeville, Pa., vicinity which would .

undoubtedly have to have the

approval and overall financial

backing of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA.

LEADS

JACKSONVILLE, MIAMI AND PHILADELPHIA - INFORMATION

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Jacksonville

and Miami Offices for informational purposes because of

allegations made by the wife of LA ROCCA and Pittsburgh

informants concerning subject's travel to Florida and Cuba

during his disappearance from Pittsburgh following the

Apalachin, New York, conference during November, 1957. With

the background thus supplied, it is felt that these offices

can intelligently handle the

coverage of future leads

requested in that vicinity.

The Philadelphia Office is being furnished with a copy of

this report for information in view of the attendance of

the adopted son of the subject at Valley Forge Academy,

Wayne, Pa., and the occasional visits made by the subject

to that vicinity during the school year.

-B-

‹ COVER PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

JOSEPH BARBARA

The "Pittsburgh Press" of June 18, 1959, carriea a front-

page article concerning the death of JOSEPH BARBARA of a

heart attack on June 17, 1959. It stated that BARBARA,

the "sick friend" that sixty gangsters dropped in to see

at his

Apalachin, New York, home on November 14, 1957,

died of

a heart ailment without revealing the

secret

purpose of the underworld convention.

It noted that BARBARA,

age 53, had been in Wilson Memorial Hospital at Johnson City,

New York, since May 29, 1959, with a heart attack.

article

further stated

that the Sicilian-born BARBARA gave

up both his business and his home after State Police rounded

up his guests and that the home was sold for $130,000 during

May, 1959, to a developer who announced plans to convert it

into a tourist attraction. The article noted that his lingering

illness had prevented his

questioning by state and Federal

investigators who have

indicted and jailed a number of the

nation's biggest "name" criminals for allegedly lying or

refusing to talk about his hilltop barbecue party.

C. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

General Information of a Criminal Nature Obtained Through

Informant Coverage

PG I-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised

that "young JOHNNY" LA ROCCA, Younger brother of

JOHN LA ROCCA, Came In Irom Johnstown, Pa., during the last

week of May, 1959, and remained for at least five or six

days. He stated that from his comments to him at the

apartment in which he is living on one of the nights LA ROCCA

was in Pittsburgh, he understood that one purpose of his

to confer with the elder LA ROCCA. He

advised that the appearance of both LA ROCCA and GABRIEL

'. MANNARINO before the Senate Labor Rackets Committee

on June 11, 1959, caused quiet comment among his clientele

In the rackets, most of which concerned the status of the

citizenshio of

LA ROCCA and the possibility of his deportation.

- 6 -

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

GENOVESE at his lounge prior to Apalachin but that at that

time he thought that SCIANDRA was from the New York City

area.

The informant advised that he had occasion to speak to

ARTHUR "ARCHIE" NELSON during the second week in June,

1959, and that NELSON said that he would have a cocktail

lounge in his new Phoenix Motel at Monroeville, Pa.

He

said that unless he misunderstood NELSON, the partner of

MIKE GENOVESE told him that a small restaurant was also

in the planning stage.

The informant said he carried on

this conversation with NELSON at Conti's Restaurant in

Pittsburgh's East Liberty section where he had arrived

alone for an early breakfast at about 2:30 a.m. on a weekday

morning.

He said that NELSON also told him that he had been

in Florida but did not mention the location or purpose of

his visit.

PG I-3, who has furnished reliable information in the past, :

advised that East Liberty and Homewood bookmakers plying

their trade in those sections of Pittsburgh are now under

constant surveillance by the younger members of the Pittsburgh

Police Department who have learned that they can collect

$10 each for staying away from the bookies for one week.

He stated that one of the bookie establishments on Homewood

Avenue in Pittsburgh is now under the control of EDDIE

MORANTI, close confidante of MIKE GENOVESE and ARTHUR "ARCHIE"

NELSON.

He said that MORANTI once worked at Archie's

Automatic Car Wash on Bennett Street and that he is now one

of NELSON's pickup men in the East Liberty-Homewood area.

He said that everyone knows that NELSON is simply the front

for GENOVESE and that the entire operation is being backed

by LA ROCCA.

The afore-mentioned informant advised that he was advised

that eight policemen demanded money at one time during the

last week of May, 1959, and that the pressure in the Homewood

area has become

so increased that a small operation in which -

e 1s Interested has been lucky to net between $100 and 8150°

a day.

He said that it has always been his contention that

the GENOVESE-NELSON bookmaking operation will never be

disturbed by the Pittsburgh Police Department because it has

-8-

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-226

Liaison Maintained with Pittsburgh Offices of the United

States Attorney and United States Marshal

HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, United States Attorney for the Western

District of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on

June 11, 1959, that he still has no plans for publicly

releasing the

testimony or lack thereof of those individuals

appearing before the Federal Grand Jury at_

on

Jand that he has still not made up his mind

as to whether to cali

before the next meeting

of that group. TEITELBAUM advised that in event the testimony

lis needed in the future

he

immediately notify the Pittsburgh FBI Office. He

said that he has no immediate future plans for the recall

Pittsburgh.

before the Federal Grand Jury meeting at

JFK Law 10(a)2

ALBERT DIMEOLO, United States Marshal for the Western

District of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on

June 17, 1959, that he has received no other subpoenaes for

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA or for any of his racket associates.

He stated that he will immediately advise the Pittsburgh

Office should subpoenaes arrive for any racket individuals

within his jurisdiction.

Surveillances Conducted Related to this Investigation

Spot surveillances were conducted on May 1l, 21 and 27, 1959,

and June 5, 15 and 10, 1959, at 900 West Ingomar Road,

Ingomar, Pa., 12 MCCandless Street, Pittsburgh, and at 500

North Craig Street, Pittsburgh, in relation to

this matter.

LA ROCCA was observed on several of these occasions but

nothing of interest to this investigation, other than what

has already been set forth, was observed during these spot

surveillances.

LA ROCCA was not contacted personally in any

manner during

these surveillances.

Recent Newspaper Publicity Relating to the Appearance of

LA ROCCA and GABRIEL "KELLY" MANNARINO Before Senate Select

Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management

Field of the United States on June 11, 1959

uSm

ZOISA

REVIEWED BY

E3VJFK TASK FORCE

REVIEWED BY FOWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

10/2/n.

dad

- 13 - ON

10/10/97 dak

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN FULL

[J. RELEASE IN PART

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL 92-2940-

7д

/acà(a)

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

PG T-I Is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone

Company of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by

SA HAROLD I. STEVENS on

May 15, 1959, and who

has requested that his identity be concealed.

PG T-2 is

PG 585-C, who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

On June 17, 1959.

PG I-3 is GEORGE "MOON" MESSER a PCI of the Pittsburgh

Office who was contacted by SA VOEGE on June 17, 1959.

- 22 -

NW 68486 Docld:32332873 Page 9

---

