# docid-32290639

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10415

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/25/1961

CM, ASSOC, ILLEGAL ENTRY, US, DEPORTATION,

GUATEMALA, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

59262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32290639 Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 11/25/61

PLAIN TEXT

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

FROM : SAC, NEY ORLEANS (92-36) (P)

SUBJECT:

CARLOS MARCELLO

AR

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr

Mr. CrUnkan.

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Aren

Mr. Manic

Mr. Bornn.

Vr. Calivan

Mr. Zeal.

Mir. Picker.

Tele. Room.

Mr. Igram

Miss Sandy.

t.s;

ReBuairtel, 11/21/61.

Recontact with PCI AL DARGIS and review of Bureau

indices reflect the individual described by PCI as FELIX

GOLINO, Patterson, La., is identical with FELICE GOLINO, "FELICE

is currently

the subject of an investigation entitled,

GOLINO, AR," initial report of SA LELAND A. LYNN, New

Orleans,

11/14/61, submitted.

GOLINO publicly admits that he is a friend of

CARLOS MARCELLO and owns an interest in the Town & Country

Motel, Shreveport, La., and the Holiday Inn, New Orleans, La.,

of which MARCELLO

is suspected of having interest. GOLINO

is a part-owner of the Sea Shrimp Company, Patterson, La.

GOLINO visited MARCELLO ;during the time that he was deported

to Guatemala.

Efforts will be continued to determine if there

are

any facts to the rumor that FELICE GOLINO assisted MARCELLO

in returning to the United States.

BUREAU

-

NEW ORLEANS (2: 92-36) (1:

RLK: eah

(6)

(332272-2.713-219

• Noi 2196

0000610b

AREMOG

251

Approved:

64 DEC 1

NW 68262 Docld:32290639 Page 2

s Woke sent

eSpecial Agent in Charge

Per

---

