# docid-32333121

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10419

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1958

PAGES: 51

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF SSS

COMMENTS:

RPT, REFERRED TO SSS

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

The New York office advised that on January 28, 1958 Mrs. KATHRYN

TOONEY, Chief Clerk, Local Board 64, Selective Service System;

8909 Sutphin Boulevard, Jamaica, advised that the following

persons residing as 118-36 201st Place, St. Albans, were registered

with that board.

Name:

Sex:

Race:

Date

THOMAS ALVIN TURCOTT

Male

White

November 4, 1935

birth:

Eyes:

Hairs

Height:

Weight:

Complexion®

Bloe

Brown

5'5"

150 1b8o

Light

1t was noted that this individual enbered

the U. S. Army

March

27, 1956 and has been assigned Army

Serial Nunber

us 51368857.

He listed his uncle, JOHN BEST, 0t 117.31

238th Street, Elmont,

N. Y.,

as the person who will always know his addresa.

Name ?

Sex 3

Race:

Date

HOBERT HENRY TURCOTT

Male

White

of

birch:

Eyes !

Hair:

July 14, 1937

' Blue

Blond

It was noted that this indvidual enlisted in the V. S. Marine

Corps

on January 18, 1956 and was assigned Marine Serial Number

1589517 He listed VERONICA TURCOr; his mother, as the person

who will always know his address.

The New York office advised that the records of the New York City

Police Department contain no record for HENRY PuRcor and the

indices of

the New York office contain no reference to anyone

named TURCOTT

Upon the deternination that a telephone

call was

made

from

the

LA ROCCA residence to OX 1-1680 at Vineland,

New

Jersey on

November 24, 1957, the Newark office was requested to determine the

-15

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 2

---

## Page 3

N

PG 92-226

T-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

on March 24, 1958 that the subscriber to Pittsburgh telephone

GRant 1-4453, which number has been called in the past from the

LA ROCCA residence, is Margiotti and Casey, attorneys, 720 Grant

Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

It is to be noted that both men

have represented the subject in the past and that VINCENT CASEY

is presently handling all legal affairs of the subject.

Miss FRANCES PRIAM, 4310 Vista View, West Mifflin, Pa., paramour

of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, Pittsburgh top hoodlum, was

interviewed at length by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE on February 19, 1958.

She advised that she has known LA ROCCA and his brothers for

approximately fourteen years, having met "Big Jöhn"

• as she calls :

him, when her brother-in-law extended LA ROCCA credit for

automobile gasoline.

This brother-in-law, whom she did not

wish to identify further than to say his name is "CHANCE"

and that he had served

time at the Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary,

operated a filling station on Baum Boulevard in Pittsburgh

PRIAM, who is approaching thirty years of age,

said LA ROCCA "had eyes for her" when she was: sixteen and that

she has always appeared at least five years older than her actual

age. She said he has approached her on more than one occasion

during the past three years and asked her to be "his girl" but that

she has not seen her way clear to take him up on this proposal.

She said she has met his wife, a very retiring and suppressed

woman, and has always admired LA ROCCA for his conservative and

gentlemanly manner.

His proposal was made more difficult, she

admitted, by the fact that she has been

"going steady" for

approximately nine years with JOE FOREMAN, a Pittsburgh racketeer

who does not care for any of the East Liberty "musclemen", as he

calls them.

PRIAM, the youngest of fifteen children born to a mother who came

to the United States from Hungary when eighteen years of age,

recalled that approximately seven or eight years ago FOREMAN

LA ROCCA had

vehement disagreement over a property settlement

and that MIKE GENOVESE and his brother "PHIL

also known as FELIX,

were sent to see FOREMAN as a threat to a "going over"

She said

FOREMAN prevented violence by contacting LA ROCCA directly and

challenging him to a personal fight and that he has referred to the

GENOVESE boys as "musclemen" since that time.

-17=

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

PRIAM advised that she is an accomplished waitress who has

worked at all

The best places in fitosburgh and is a member of the

local union. For the past three years

up until two weeks

prior to this interview she was the main waitress in the Genovese

Cocktail Lounge at 412 Larimer Avenue.

She also worked at the

Holiday House in Monroeville for a tine during 1957 and 1s well

acquainted with the toalian element operating

• that establishment.

She intinated that she accepts

on a selective basis and:

prefers racketeers who are willing to spend a great deal of money

She placed "Young John" LA ROCCA in this category and

stated that she preferred to date him more than anyone else except

FOREMAN. "Young John" was described by PRIAM as being

• "Big John's

younger brother who controls the rackets in Uniontown, Pennsylvania

with an iron hand. "

She said "Young John" telephones her long

distance regularly and that she is his date whenever he arrives

in Pittsburgh for a meeting with other racketeers..

She said he

is divorced, has children and is a "very eligible

catch."

She said

LA ROCCA's other two brothers, JOE and TONY are barbers in the .:

Ficasburgh vicinity having absolutely no tie in with the rackets,

to her knowledge.

PRIAM seemed disconcerted during the interview because of the fact

that her boyfriend JOE FOREMAN was on trial in Allegheny County

court for burglary, receiving stolen goods, and illegal possession

of a firearm,

She

advised that he is a used car salesman on Baum

Boulevard, is married and has four grown children. FOREMAN

telephoned her during the

interview and expressed

the wish that he had

money to "buy off someone" because he felt that he was being

"railroaded"

on the burglary charge.

PRIAM advised that she quit at the Genovese Lounge because she had

dishes and because the GENOVESE brothers seemed to be

getting "tight" financially. She said, there has been very little

business at the lounge "since that Apalachin thing"

and that she

was unable to clear even four dollars a night in tips. She

estimates that a waitress with obligations must clear at least

seven dollars a day in this regard in order for it to be profitable

to work at all.

She recalled receiving a telephone call approximately three to four

weeks prior to this interview from Mrs.

CARVILLA GENOVESE in

California who wanted to speak person-to-person to MIKE GENOVESE,

-18-

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92÷226

from whom she is divorced.:

It should be noted that at about this

same time CARMELLA GENOVESE was interviewed by Bureau Agents in

California and she was uncooperative in furnishing information

about her former husband.

PRIAM recalled that at Christmas

time, 1957, the entire GENOVESE

family, including the mother and father of the GENOVESE brothers.

gathered in the dining room of the lounge and that she received

a large tip for serving them: It had previously been reported that.

old Mrs. CENOVESE had died

PRIAM fids the following description as observed by sA VoEGE on

February 19, 1958:

Name:

Age:

Race:

SeX:

Height:

Weight:

Build:

Hair:

Eyes :

Complexion:

Other characterissios:

Residence:

Telephone:

Hangouts:

FRANCES PRIAM

Twenty nine

Caucasian

Female

5'51"

155-160 Ibs.

Heavy, big boned

Dark brown, long; worn straight

back off the face with large bun

in back; never dyed

Brown

Clear and

swarthy

Has large nose: wears blouses

and skirts rather than dresses;

is chain smoker of filter-tip

cigarettes; enjoys eating and

arinking to excess; resides with

mother (age 73) and brother (laid

off t"rom U.S. Steel, Homestead

Works, and brother's

wife and two

children (ages 10 and 2); Drives

1957 red Ford with gold strip

along sides, bearing Pennsylvania

license 563373

4310 Vista View,

West Mifflin, Pa.

Homestead 1-0551

Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer

Ave., Pittsburgh;

Holiday House, Monroeville;

Hanna's Restaurant, Centre

and

Craig, Pittsburgh.

-19-

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

his

brothers and LA ROCCA want to keep him "clean." Informant

advised that ARCHIE NELSON; another of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums,

does

not attend the meetings either, nor do "BOOTS" BELLINI,

a numbers baron, and CHUCK TEEMER, another Pittsburgh top

hoodlum.

All of the aforementioned individuals have been

observed by the informant at the lounge at one

time or another:

Informant advised that

arrangements had been made for a close girl-

friend of the informant to purchase a car through HYMIE MARTINg

approximately two weeks prior to this interview, but that the

informant had seen none of the other racketeers recently with

the exception of PHIL and FIORE GENOVESE,

"JO JO" PECORA and

LOUIS VOLPE, who frequents the Holiday House almost nightly.

The informant had no knowledge of the numbers or "sports book"

arrangements of the GENOVESES but had recently

received a

telephone call for PHIL GENOVESE from a Jewish racketeer working

along Fifth Avenue to whom PHIL ostensibly owes money.

Informant

could not recall this individual's name but promised

to endeavor

to locate it among some check stubs on which a notation was made.

Informant recalled that during September or October, 1957,

two. or

three racket men from New York City visited the Genovese

Cocktail Lounge and were closeted with the GENOVESE brothers

and LA ROCCA for a period of time. Following the meeting,

one

of these men; who introduced himself as JIMMIE (last name

unknown), spoke with the informant for sometime.

Informant

described JIMMIE as an immaculately dressed Italian man in his

fifties and thinks his name can be determined through PHIL

GENOVESE, who has confided in the informant during the recent

past.

Informant advised that PHIL OF FELIX GENOVESE, as he is sometimes

called, is definitely not "top dog" in the GENOVESE family

although he is close to the MANNARINO brothers. : In the opinion

of the informant,

his overindulgence in extra-marital relations,

his preference for drinking great quantities of scotch, and his

valent temper and surge arm tactics will prevent pHIL GENOVaSE

from ever obtaining

status in the group.

Informant advised

that a girl named EVELYN, whose nickname is

"PEPPER", and who

employed on a part-time basis as a waitress at the Merry-Go-Round

Restaurant in Pittsburgh is known to everyone as "PHIL'S girl"

and no one else dares to touch her. Informant advised that PHIL

GENOVESE dates EVELYN two or three times a week openly

and helps

support her.

According to the informant, the 1957 Ford now being

driven by PHIL GENOVESE was. given to him as a Christmas gift

by KELLY MANNARINO, Pittsburgh top hoodlum, in December, 1956..

-28c.

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

The informant advised that the girlfriend of "BIG JOHN" LA ROCCA

whose name is not recalled, died approximately ten years ago

from an illness which LA ROCCA tried to cure by securing the

best medical aid money could obtain. Informant advised that

MIKE GENOVESE is a quiet individual who does not date openly

but forces his common-law wife ALICE to remain home alone

constantly in a house "in the middle of nowhere."

Informant

advised that none of the wives. of the racket men accompany

them at their hangouts and seem to be reconciled to remaining

in the background while their husbands date and support other

in the borerone

women openly.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a well-known and self-admitted Pittsburgh

numbers writer who is now sixty-three years of age, was inter-

viewed at his residence, 124 Elysian Street, Pittsburgh

(Emerson 1-6684 or Emerson 1-5332) by SA VOEGE on February 27,.

1958.

He

advised that he began his numbers activity during

"the old clearing house days of 1928" and is still active in

this regard.

He said that most of Pittsburgh's present day

big racket men once depended on him solely for protection

purposes since he knew local and state police figures and

recalled that JOHN LA ROCCA was one of these racketeers.

MESSER

stated that LA ROCCA became acquainted with him in about 1941

or 1942 when LA ROCCA was handling all the numbers activity in

the East Liberty section of Pittsburgh and had set himself up

as a "little God."

When LA ROCCA became dissatisfied with his

financial gains he left Pittsburgh on a trip to Chicago to see

friends about paste reel machines with which he felt he could

make more money.

MESSER said a paste reel was similar to a

"one-armed bandit" with the exception that a small paper-wrapped

mint was dispensed after the coin was placed in the slot and the

play was registered.' Its Chicago manufacturers got around the

"strictly for gambling purposes"

phraseology in the law in that

manner, he explained.

While LA ROCCA was in Chicago MESSER moved into East Liberty

and

took over the entire numbers operation. He turned in to

GEORGE CHRISTY (now deceased) in Pittsburgh. When LA ROCCA

returned he became angry at the MESSER move and had a car run

over MESSER one night when he was crossing a street.

MESSER got out of the hospital he found his automobile had

numerous bullet holes in it.

Because he thought he'd make money

MESSER stayed in East Liberty and actually forced LA ROCCA out

of the numbers business.

MESSER recalled that SAM LEVINE, a

-29-

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-226

Pittsburgh top hoodlun, turned in to him during the early numbers

days but said that he has not seen LEVINE in years, although he

is familiar with his McKees Rocks book. He said he was friendly

with LEVINE's brother RALPH, a promising dentist who is a United

States Army Olficer at present.

MESSER advised that he and LA ROCCA became friendly following

their feud and that in approximately 1943 LA ROCCA invited him

to share equally in the ownership of the Coin Machine Distributing

Company which later set up ofrices at 5746 Baum Boulevard in

Fittsburgh.

He recalled that LA ROCCA was completely bankrupt

because of numbers setbacks but managed to raise enough money

to put up his share.

He personally visited Chicago to arrange

for the purchase of the machines and made a verbal agreement with

ARI ROONEX, who allowed him to place the machines throughout the

East Liberty, Homewood and Garfield sections and in other areas

where: ROONEY was not operating.

According to MESSER. ROONEY, who

1s the present owner of the Pisssburgh Steelers professional

football. club;

the only' man who could get paste reels before

LA ROCCA tried, and controlled the entire flossburgh vicinity in

this regard,

MESSER said the Government placed $100 tax on each

machine and

that: the city put a $50 tax stamp on each machine.

He said the other owners of the company in'addision to himself and

LA ROCCA, were

FRANK AMATO, a Fibsaburgh top hoodlum,

BARNEY

MC GINLEY, SAM MANNARINO, a

Fibssburgh top hoodlun, and F. W. ZoGG

from Chicago.

NESSER advised that the company was doing well financially before

Allegheny County authorities raided establishments where the

machines had been placed and forced it out of business.

recalled that although each of the six owned an equal share in

the company MANNARINO and LA ROCCA seemed to run everything and

held meetings at which important subjects were discussed in Italian.

AMATO and several other Italians attended these meetings but MESSER

did not understand Italian. He advised that he realized that

LA ROCCA was only using him for his proven protection methods and

did not mind as long as he got his cut out of the profits.

said his chief protection was the then Superintendent of Police

SCOT 2.

MESSER recalled that during 1946 or 1947 MIKE GENOVESE came on

the scene:

MIKE had been a pickup man for LA ROCCA and

was a

tough kid who, according to MESSER, "was almost begging to go to

jail."

- 30=

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG: 92«226

MESSER,

who admittedly ran "moon and numbers joints" in the

early thirties and was well acquainted with "Big Mike" SPINELLI,

who killed ARTHUR, JIMMY and JOHNNY VOLPE, advised that there

1s absolutely no numbers organization in the metropolitan

Pittsburgh area. He said that there are numerous independent

books which are

well distributed and that there are no con.

cessions or defined areas.

MESSER stated that anyone with

money can operate as he pleases and that the police prefer

it this way because they can collect protection money easier.

He said the police will not allow any organization now.

MESSER advised that at one time he saw "Monkeyface Joe" ROSA,

FRANK VALENTI and TONY RIPEPI, all top hoodlums, daily, but

that he has gotten away from the Italian element now

with

the exception of

the GENOVESES and NELSON.

He recalled that

VALENTI and RIPEPI visited the offices of the Coin Machine

Distributing Company regularly and always took orders from

MANNARINO and LA ROCCA. He said RIPEPI was a more important

racket man than VALENTI and that LA ROCCA seemed to be the key

man in the Pittsburgh area®

MESSER would place LA ROCCA and

MANNARINO as the two men who control the rackets in Western

Pennsylvania and he sees MIKE GENOVESE as the logical successor

to the top position.

MESSER, who drives a 1955 blue and white Oldsmobile sedan,

1957 Pennsylvania license E3914, recalled that in about 1947

Labor leader NICK STIRONE visited the company offices to visit

his close friends LA ROCCA and MANNARINO:

to get "gorillas" to handle some men who were giving STIRONE

labor trouble on a highway being built in the Monroeville section

and more specifically to give the dissenters a "going over"

while upsetting their equipment.

The job was done for STIRONE

by MANNARINO who became incensed when he learned his gorillas

had hurt some older Italian men.

MESSER said MANNARINO was unders

the

impression that the men who had defied STIRONE were young punks

and he let STIrONE know what he thought of him in front of MesSERy

E. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

T-8 advised on March 4, 1958: that his bank made a loan to the ambject

In the name JOHNS. LA ROCCA, for $25,000 on a mohtgage for emproperties

Danive

M7 D. MN.K000A

5a000OLE1

C49S

-31-

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PG 92-226

F. TRAVEL

T-3 advised that MIKE GENOVESE had left town during the early

portion of February, ostensibly with his wife, and that he

learned from other racketeers that GENOVESE and LA ROCCA went

to Florida and were there during the months of February and

It was his opinion that they might remain there

until after a Pittsburgh Grand Jury to investigate rackets has:

finished its deliberations. It should be noted that MIKE

GENOVESE and his wife returned to the Pittsburgh area during

the first week of March, 1958 and that T-? subsequently

advised that it was rumored among the Pittsburgh racketeers

that they had been in Cuba as

well as florida.

On March 24, 1958, JUDD MECHLING, Chief Deputy U. S. Marshal,

Pittsburgh, advised that when Deputy Marshal RAY ECHEMENT

tried to serve a subpoena on the subject at his residence on

regard

and was treated very cordially, although he was not

allowed to enter the house.

On this same date SA ROBERT A. VOEGE observed the 195% cream

colored Cadillac belonging to the subject parked in his garage

and

1t still bore 1957 Pennsylvania license 11FMl.

The

Albany office advised on March 15, 1958 that TROY WILLIAMS,

Manager of the Arlington Hotel at Binghamton, N. Y., had advised

Bora the be

SA PATRICK A. MUNLEY on February 21, 1958 that all records

to the subject had been taken by an investigating

committee but he recalled the fact that the subject and (FNU)

GENOVESE were at the hotel on November 14, 1957, the date of the

Apalachin meeting, and had two bedrooms and a living room

which would call for a rate of $22.00

He stated that the

rooms were paid for in cash and were not charged to Canada Dry

Bottling Company of Endicott, N. Y.

He related further that

there was only one telephone call placed from the rooms occupied

by the subject and that call was to Pittsburgh telephone

Forest 4-5296, which is

the home telephone of the subject.

stated that he had located a duplicate telephone ticket which

shows the call was made on November 13, 1957 but he advised

that the telephone operator evidently was in error in view of

the fact that the subject registered at 8:58 AM on November 14;

1957•

-33-

92-2940-19

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PG: 92-226

G. MISCELLANEOUS

JUDD MECHLING; Chief Deputy U. S. Marshal for the Western District

of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh, Pa., advised on March 25, 1950 that

give evidence " regard to the alleged violation of section l

Title 18, U. S. Code:

scheduled for February 13, 1958 he has not been able to serve

this subpoena and will have to obtain a ruling on a new date.

The New York office advised on March 20, 1958 that on that date

it was confidentially learned from WILLIAM S. LYNCH, Assistant U.S.

Attorney for the Southern District of New York at New York City,

that on March 19, 1958 VINCENT CASEY of Pittsburgh, Pa., an

attorney for the

subjects whose telephone is Pittsburgh GRant 1-4453,

telephonically advised LYNCH that he was unable to contact LA ROCCA

relative to his scheduled appearance before the Federal Grana Jury

in the Southern District of New York.

CASEY advised LYNCH that

he expected to be in contact with the subject during the week of

March 23, 1958 relative to the subject's Grand Jury appearance.

in this matter contingent upon LA ROCCA's appearance before that

body during the week of March 23, 1958.

IN VIEW OF THE SUBJECT'S CONVICTION FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO

KILL AND ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE ARMED

AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

= P

-35-

92-2940-19

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

T-1 is H. W. GLENN, U.S. Postal Inspector, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on March 21, 1958, who

requested that his identity be concealed.

T-2 is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone Company

of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by SA HAROLD L. STEVENS

on February 21, 1950 and on March 25, 1950, and who requested

that his identity be concealed.

I-3 IS GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, Potential Criminal Informant of

T-4 Is GEORGE HARRISON, Supervisor, Devereaux School, Glenmoore,

1958 and who has requested that his identity be concealed.

who was contacted by SA T. EDWARD UMPHRES on February 7,

T-5 is FRANK YANKO, Laflin Grove, Laflin, Pa., who was contacted

DY SA FREDERICK T

HOULIHAN on January 10, 1958 and whose

identity is being concealed because he is a former security

informant of the Philadelphia office.

I-6 is RUDY SOKOL, a potential criminal informant of the

Pittsburgh office who was contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA

on February 20, 1958.

T-7 is Miss FRANCES PRIAM, a potential criminal informant of

the Pittsburgh office who was contacted on February 19, 1958,

March 7, 1958 and March 11, 1958 by. SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

T-8 is LOUIS J. REIZENSTEIN, Executive Vice President of the

Washington Trust Office, Western Pennsylvania National Bank,

931 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. contacted by SA ROBERT

A. VOEGE on March 4, 1958.

-36-

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PG 92-226

INDEX

MARIANELII, SUSIE

MARIANELLI,, THERESA

MARTIN, HYMIE

MC GINLEY, BARNEY

Medico Electric Company

Merry-Go-Round Restaurant

MESSER, GEORGE "MOON"

MOFFIIT, MARTIN

Motor Freight and Trucking Company

NELSON, ARCHIE

North Star Cement Block Company

PASQUALE,, STASHIE D. MRS.

PECORA...

"JO JO"

"PEPPER"

Pittsburgh Steelers

POLIZZI, MICHAEL SANTO

Premo Marianelli Construction Company

PRIAM, FRANCES MISS

PULCI, ANTHONY

RAGNO, "LITTLE JOE"

REGINO, JOSEPH

REGINO, MARIO

Page Numbers

21,25

22

27,28

30

34

.. ..

28

29-31

22

22

28,31,32

6,16

16

27,28

28

30

26

22

17-19

13

23

23,24

23

INDEX

-41--

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PG 92-226

INDEX

MARIANELLI, SUSIE

MARIANELLI, THERESA

MARTIN, HYMIE

MC GINLEY, BARNEY

Medico Electric Company

Merry-Go-Round Restaurant

MESSER, GEORGE "MOON"

MOFFITT, MARTIN

Motor Freight and Trucking Company

NELSON, ARCHIE

North Star Cement Block Company

PASQUALE, STASHIE D. MRS.

PECORA, "JO JO"

"PEPPER"

Pittsburgh Steelers

POLIZZI, MICHAEL SANTO

Premo Marianell1 Construction Company

PRIAM, FRANCES MiSS

PULCI, ANTHONY

RAGNO, "LITTLE JOE"

REGINO, JOSEPH

REGINO, MARIO

Page Numbers

21,25

22

27,28

30

34

e.-

28

29-31

22

22

28,31,32

6,16

16

27,28

28

30

26

22

17-19

13

23

23,24

23

INDEX

-41-:

NW 68262 Docld:32333121 Page 14

---

