# docid-34529191

## Page 1

Date

Page :

01/14/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10004-10375

RECORDS SERIES

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PAGES 29-30

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]

TO :

TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]

DATE

: 11/21/68

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

EDUCATION RECORD

EDUCATION INTERVIEW

EVANDER CHILDS HIGH SCHOOL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

64954 Date: 09-22-2022

NW 64954 Docid:34529191 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ate

been entered)

AGENT REPORT

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

SUBJECT: MARIT, Manuel NMN

ASN-S$N: PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DOB/ POB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

POB

d. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. DATE SUBMITTED

21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

LISTED EDUCATION RECORD

SCHOOL:

Evander Childs High School

ADDRESS: Bronxwood Avenue and East Gun Hill Road, Bronx, New York (N.Y.)

LOLICE : Mrs. Ruth Schwartz

DATE and Place of Interview:

1. Subject's Name with Aliases:

POSITION:

Student Records Clerk

8 October 1968 at school.

Manuel MARTI

2. Address

: 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York

3. Previous Addresses

: 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, N.Y.

4. Date and Place of Birth : 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

5. Date of Attendance

6.. Courses and/or Major

7. Instructors

8. Graduate (Degree)

: September 1961 to June 1964

General High School Courses

: Mrs. Kerman; Mr. Herbert Tandlich

: Graduated

9. Grades

: Average

10. Record of Transcripts

11. Previous Education

12. Employments

13. Parents or Guardian

14. Remarks

: Theodore Roosevelt Evening School, Fordham Road;

Bronx, N.Y.

:

Junior High School 136, Bronx, N.Y.

:

Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, April 7,

: Father, Manuel; Mother, Reyes

: None

AGENT'S NOTE: No information in regard to father's DPOB was

available from records.

29

PARA 28 AR 381-130 APPLIES

"FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY", THIS PROTECTIVE MARKING IS EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC TERMINATION

SUPREE NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

PAUL P. BAILLARGEN, 108th MI Gp (I-NYFO)

FORM

DA FOR 341

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Feistine(only after data

SE UNass been entered)

NW 64954 Docld:34529191 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AGENT REPO

(AR 381-130; FM 3Q17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

(EDUCATION INTERVIEW) On 8 October 1968, Herbert Tandlich of

501 Riverdale Avenue, Yonkers, New York, former instructor of Manuel

MARII at Evander Childs High School, Bronxwood Avenue and East Gun Hill

Road, Bronx, New York, was interviewed at the school and stated substantially

as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in September of 1963 and had HIM as a

student in the "shop course" until June of 1964. SUBJECT was an excellent

student to the best of Source's memory and he had daily contact with HIM on

an instructor-student basis.

Source did not know anything about SUBJECT'S

family nor where HE resided. HE was considered to be mentally stable and

mature without any memberships in any political organizations.

Source had

no knowledge of SUBJECT'S association with HIS father and could not comment on

the degree of influence exercised by HIS father over HIM.

Source considered SUBJECT to be loyal to the United States form

of government and recommends that HE be considered favorably for a position

of trust and responsibility with the United States government.

30

-APE NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

PAUL P. BAILLARGEON, 108th MI Gp (I-NYFO)

DA

FORM

ORM, 341

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, I JUN 67, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 64954 Docld:34529191 Page 3

8. SIGNATURE OF/SPECIAL AGENT

---

