Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10470 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 [44 USC 2107 Note},

December 8, 1995
5 Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

|

| NW 68261
| Docld:32239478 Page 1


| Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
: 180-10060-10470

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 10/11/77

PAGES : 7
SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

LICHTENFELS, BETH ANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION U
RESTRICTIONS 3
CURRENT STATUS P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA

| COMMENTS :
Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docld:32239478 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES {Any erasures, Soon “ nee
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) ;
! 1
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: :
I hereby authorize the following payroll action: i
i
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date : 3 \
i
Beth Anne Lichtenfels March 1, 1973 \
Employee Social Security. Number Type of Action i i
‘GSalary Adjustment 4
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee CI Title Change :
1 C Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. __..._______-----. ------------] )
Spay Bote
(If type of action is an. Appointment, Salary-Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information: below.)
Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
Document Control Cleric $14,006
* If employee isa

service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown'should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary re from the employing office.
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 1 Professional.
2. @

\
I Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.
3. C1 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level_______. Step___-__-.

| certify that this authorization is not. in: violation of 5.U.
relatives.

~3110(b), prohibiting the: employment. of

All- appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

Revd Avg 11977
| NW 68261
Docld:32239478 Page 3



| Nw 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and
Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of
Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's
monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
js signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget
Office immediately of the change.

XZ 1 am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

Bet ara Ataf LH, P22)

' Signature’ of Empl éyee Date

| Docld:32239478 Page 4



Nw 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer J 0 WQ_
FROM: Charlie Mathews, Special Counsel 1 5
DATE: October 5; 1977

RE: Ms. Beth Ann@Lichtenfels

Ms. Beth Ann@Lichtenfels has accepted the position
of Document Control Clerk with the John F. Kennedy Task
Force. Her effective starting date will be October Py 1977,
and her starting salary will be $12,000.00.
Your full co-operation will be appreciated in familiarizing
Ms. Lichtenfels with staff procedures and welcoming her

aboard.

IcM:j1

'| Docld:32239478 Page 5



| eb

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use. Typewriter: U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 ae initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ‘ Effective Date
Seth Anne Lichtenfels ; Octeber 11, 1977
° Employee Social Security Number P Type of Action

‘EXAppointment

Employing Office or Committee (1 Solory Adjustment

( Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment; complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Decument Contre? Clerk $12,000.60

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below:)

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or {J Professional.

2. [X] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.__

3. (J Joint Committee.

{If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__. _.|f applicable, Level.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 US:@ .3110(b}, prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date__.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees: underthe: House Classification -Act and for Committee-em-
ployees,. except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on. the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration: .

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.__________

=

NW 68261
Docld:32239478 Page 6

Reishee edd adenoid ain sasilbin

t
ye



|. Regular Work Day

‘25. Number of Hours...
Worked Per Day

Eta"
Oem

Begins Ends

26, Circle Days Paid Per Week:

8 : s@OGGas

27.

28. Date Reporting Office”
Received Notice of Injury

Fa Sn

Date and Hour of Injury. 29, Date'and Hour Stopped _

(mo., day, year)
7/19/78

Oem

Gem

30, If Pay Has Been Terminated,

. 45 Day Period Begins

(mo., day, year}

per

;. Was Employee In Performance of Duty At The Time of Injury? [ >] Yes,

tion Report.

36.

Was Injury Caused By Willful Misconduct, Intoxication orIntent To Injure Self or Another?

O ves

EEF no. tf Yes, Furnish Detailed Report.

37.

“Ey Yes: [&,

Was Injury Caused By Third Party?.

ey

Date Employee First Obtained | 39. Name and Address of Physician First Providing Medical Care

Medical Care for The Injury ee Grey
(mo., day, year) SUBURBAN.-HOSPITAL' EMERGENCY. ROOM

7/19/78"

40, Do Medical Reports Show
Employee is Disabled For

41.

0 ves :

42.

C1 ves

Does The Employing Agency Controvert Continuation of Pay?

B4No. If Yes, Give Full Explanation For Basis of
Controversion (See Item 6 of Instruction Sheet). Attach Additional Sheets If More Space !s Needed. «

— themes Wh - wh

44, Title and Office Phone Number _

Beiphilic » 5-96

45. Date (mo., day, year).

7-¥ 7-72



°... U.S, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR : .
| FEDERAL EMPLOYEE'S NOTICE OF TRAUMATIC INJURY

EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION AND CLAIM FOR CONTINUATION OF PAY/COMPENSATION
OFFICE OF WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PROGRAMS
1. Name of Injured Employee (Last, first, middle) 2. Date of Birth 3. oO Male 4, Social Security Number
: LICHTENFELS, BETH ANNE 1/5/55 042-52-4602
EX] Femate
5. Employee's Home Mailing Address (No., street, city, state, zip code) 6. Home Telephone \
4401 EAST WEST HGWY, "BETHESDA, MD. APT’ 300°.) Area Code: { 4
fea | Number: 654=7184 |

7, Name and Address of Employing Agency 8, Place Where Injury Occurred (e.g., 2nd floor, Main Post Office

House SELECT COMM. ON ASSASSINATIONS &ldg., 12th & Pine)
3rd AND D STREET, S.W. 2nd AND C STREET H
: |

» WASHINGTON, D.C. 7 WASHINGTON, D.C.

5 9..Date and Hour of Injury... | 40. Date of This Notice. | 11. Dependents = | 42, Employeo’s..
: (mo., day, year) aM (mo., day, year) Wife/Husband “ Occupation.
TAUE Kem a 1/27/78. cicsci[s Children Under 18 Years Old [_]poc. Clerk

10] -14. Nature of Injury (Identify the part of the body injured, €9.,
fractured left leg, etc.) }

- “strap which-broké-and-tripped: “partially-separated right” shoulder ~~
A injured employee torn rotating cuff, torn and bruised
i tendons, ligaments and muscles. Skin
burn to right shoulder

15. If This Notice and Claim Was Not Filed With The Employing Agency Within 2 Working Days After ‘The Injury, Explain The Reason
For The Delay,

16. | certify that the injury described above was sustained in performance of duty as an employee of the United States Government and that
it was not caused by my willful misconduct, intent to injure myself or another person, nor by my intoxication. | hereby claim medical
treatment, if needed, and the following, es checked below, while disabled for work:

[7] b. continuation of regular pay not to exceed 45 days and compensation for wage loss If disability for work continues beyond 45
-doys (If my claim is denied, | understend that the continuation of my regular pay shall be charged to sick or ennuel leave, or

19, Witnoss' Address
Mequeuiod

20, Date Signed.
{mo., day, year)

Bp

Form CAL a
“Rev. Nov. 1974 ay

|| nw 68261 oe
| Docld:32239478 Page 8 : F i


NW 68261
| Docld:32239478

FLOYD 3, FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA,

LOUIS STOKES, O10, CHAIRMAN

sicsanoscuomcben, was sri eamsen €- DEAE Sm
| eermene create Sy Sem oem
Wine surat oitcre, ear.“ Snaktta tones near ot
Eimear aoeer eoeat pete’ ner bee
| maneuS eo Fo

Select Committee on Assagsinations
GSH. Bouse of Representatives

‘$831 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20815

(oa) 225-4020

September 25, 1978

Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
Special Claims Unit

711 - 14th Street, N. W.

Washington, D. C. 20211

Dear Sirs:

We are forwarding herewith Form CA-1' for Beth C.
Lichtenfels an employee of this Committee. We apologize
for the late filing but we mis-read the instructions.

While Miss Lichtenfels did:not require sick or annual
leave and the Committee did not controvert continuation
of pay, she did require medical treatment.

“In the meantime, we filed her Form CA-1 in her per-

sonnel file.

‘Sincerely yours, }
Sh;

THOMAS HOWARTH.
Budget Officer

TH:ht

Page 9

ey

