# docid-34517436

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date

Page

10/19/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10003-10178

RECORDS SERIES : FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : C8005823W -

PAGE

2755

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE : REPORT

DATE : 09/19/60

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS

: [ RESTRICTED ]

I RESTRICTED 1

SPAIN VISITED

CASTRO'S POLICIES DENOUNCED

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/97

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI.

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

NW 64954 Docld:34517436 Page 1

---

## Page 2

StUALT

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Septenter 19, 1960

BO: CARLOG PRIO BOCARABO

Ao has bees proviously reported, ex-President

CARLOS PAJO SOCARRAS of Cuba and bis fandly arrived at

Spata, On Auguat 17, 1960, and departed jenedtately

thepeatter for tontiago do cospostela,.

Spain, there he

ressiod at iso bosca. de 1os Leyes +az011605.

Os Soptesher 16, 1960, a confidential source abroad

adried that talO and his fanily departod Mantiago de Car-

postela by antonobile on Angust 24, 1900, for Badrid, stere

thoy stopped at the Fotel Cantollana liltoa.

Source sold that PRIO ongaged de 00 political

activities or political conversation during the tine be

cos in Santlago do Conpostole,

• but that ho did make 1t

understood that although he had added FIDEL CASTRO in over-

throwins the DAlISTA regime, be in not in conforalty with

tho potsales being followed by CAStAO.

3-7-96

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/KSR

'DECLASSIFY ON: 25X(a

(JFK).

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

iON

9-28.97dd

Ci RELEASE IN FULL

A RELEASE IN PART

CI TOTAL DENIAL

fe!:

This document contains neither

recommen damonsy birDconclusions of

the FBI.

Ities the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside, you agency.

2755

SEBRET

NW 64954 Docld:34517436 Page 2

---

