# docid-34431969

## Page 1

Date :

Page

04/14/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

:194-10013-10448

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: ZF400026W - PAGES 265-269

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

:

TITLE : SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

DATE

: 11/01/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS : CUBAN INTELLIGENCE

• SERVICE

CUBAN OFFICER TRAINING PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

66754 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 66754 Docld:34431969 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CER ESURTM ARMY

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

(SR 380-320-10)

SECRet.

DATE

1 Nov 1963

PREPARING OFFICE

Region I, 112th Intelligence Corps Group,

SUBNECT

San Antonio, Texas

CODE FOR USE IN INDIVIDUAL PARAGRAPH EVALUATION

OF SOURCE:

INFORMATION:

Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

COMPLETELY RELIABLE ..

CONFIRMED BY OTHER

SOURCES. I

USUALLY RELIABLE

PROBABLY TRUE

118th THE OBLOLN'S

KNEE ARIFY UNKIBAN

НАРАС ДАНА ДОМИВАВА

SUMMARY. OF INFORMATION

1,- 4)

During the month of June 1963,

Manolo Artime, a leading political figure

the Guban refugees in Miami, Florida,

in the company of Segundo Gorges, came to

Benning, Georgia, for the purpose of recruiting people to go to a revolutionary

camp in Nicaragua.

Juan M. Quintana de la Torre, 20 Lt, C2 312 403, Detachment 21,

2d Student Battalion (SB),

the Student Brigade,

Us Army Infantry School,

Georgia, presently on Temporary Duty (TDY) with 3628th School Squadron (SS), Lacklanc

AIr Force Base (LAFB), Texas; Mario Eloy Jimenez-Rojo, 2d Lt, C2 312 439

21, Za SB, presently on TDY with 3628th SS, LAFB; Armando Caballero-Parodi, 2d Lt. C2

312 432, Detachment 21, 2d SB, presently on TDY with 3628th SS, LAFB; "Llayo (Enu)

Varona" and Source went to visit Artime in his motel in Columbus, Georgia. Artime

informed this group that the US Government was not going to do anything for Cuba and

that he (Artime) had obtained aid and instructors from Europe. Source opposed Artime's

statements and did not believe it, since they were in conflict with the aspirations

and plans of the US Government.

Source believes Artime succeeded in recruiting at

least two members of Detachment 21, Isidre I. Montesino-Acosta, 2d Lt, C2 312 401, and

Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez, 2d It, C2 312 350 Montesino-Acosta and Acebo-Rodriguez. re-

signed: from the Cuban Training Program upon completion of the course at Fort Benning,

their present whereabouts are unknown to Source.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Manual de Jesus Perez Marquez, 2d It.

rember 196f Detachment 21, 2d SB, presently on TDY with 3628th 5S, LAFB, on 23 Sep

2. (C) The Officers of Detachment 21 commented among themselves that Manolo

Artime came to Columbus, Georgia, to recruit personnel from the Cuban Officer Training

Program to go to a camp

in Nicaragua.

Source did not know anything concerning any

officers who were planning to resign upon termination of the course of instruction.

(Source refused to elaborate on this subject and it is the opinion of investigators

that he was withholding information)

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Juan Quintana-de la Torre, 2d Lt, C2

312 403, Detachnent 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th

sS, LAFB,

on 23 September 1963.

3. (C) In June 1963, one Manolo Artime,

an anti-Castro leader, visited Fort

Benning, but the purpose of his visit was unknown to Source as he did not go to see

Artime and had no association with him.

However, Source was later informed that the

purpose of Artime's visit was to recruit certain

individuals from Detachment 21 to go

to a training camp in Nicaragua.

Source did not know who was present at the meeting

with Artime, but did leam later that several members of the Detachment agreed to

DISTRIBUTION.

4 • DCSINTEL

1 • File

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FORM

DA, DEC SI 568 5Amy

Inch i

NHICH MAY BE

PECREE!

-247710

DO

TERED M

NOT AUTOGATICALLY

DOD DIR 5200.1

DCS

1963

2x-490-6358ncl

INTE.

(BA

502/33

NW 66754 Docld:34431969 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

DATE: 1 November 1963

resign in order to go to Nicaragua immediately following the completion of the

course of instruction at Fort Benning which ended on 2 August 1963.

Source believes

the following individuals resigned due to the influence of Artime and have joined

his camp: Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez, 2d Lt, C2 312 371; George M. Navarro-Rodriguez..

C2 312. 444; Luis de Jesus de

Laar. ar. C2372 30 J0 a SeCtor Anton Anton1o de Zanar-Naza, 2a Le, 02 312 539.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Felix Eloy Perez-Tamayo, 2d Lt,

C2 312 351, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th SS,

LAFB, on 23 September 1963.

4. (C) Source has heard of the existence of a group of officers in the Cuban

Officer Training Program who are considering resigning from the Program in the near

At LAFB, there are a number who are waiting for the termination of their

English course to

resign, while others plan to turn in their resignation after

arriving at a new station.

One of them is Rene F. Gomez-Figueroa, 2d Lt, C2 312

397.

Source believes that the reason for their leaving is that they plan to trans-

fer to Nicaragua, or another overseas base, in order to continue their fight against

Communist Cuba.

This group is in contact with Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez'and Antonio

I@lesias-Pons,, both of whom resigned from the Cuban Training Progran upon completion

of the course at Fort Benning and who are in Nicaragua organizing anti-Castro regime

activities.

(This group' consists mainly of men who fought in the Bay of Pigs in-

vasion of Cuba)

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Ernesto de los Angeles Lluesma-Pares,

2d Lt, C2 312 319, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th

SS, LAFB, on 27 October 1963.

(F-3)

5. (S) There is a group within the Cuban Officer Training Program presently

undergoing training at LAFB who are planning to submit their resignations upon

completion of additional courses.

One of these individuals is Ladislao George

Fernandez-Martinez, 2d Lt, C2 312 392.

The motive for presenting their resignations

is to go to Nicaragua and organize an attempt to overthrow Castro. This group is

in contact through correspondence with Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez' and Antonio Eugenio

Iglesias-Pons, both of whom resigned the course while at Fort Benning in August

19630

Fernandez is expecting to hear from Manolo Artime in order to submit his

resignation in late November and go to Nicaragua.

Artime revealed to Fernandez

details about his conference with Charles de Gaulle of France and Conrad Adenauer

of Germany. Artime showed documents and pictures to Fernandez corroborating his

conferences with de Gaulle and Adenauer.

Artime told Fernandez that de Gaulle and

Adenauer have promised him help to establish a camp in Nicaragua for the purpose

of taking over Cuba. Such help should start to be received by Artime after Novem-

ber 1963, Alberto Maleo Munia-Boxin 2d Lte C2 312 400. another officer who re-

signed from the program in August 1963 and now residing in Miami, wrote a letter

to Federico Garcia-Geli, 2d Lt, C2 312 393, LAFB, explaining his reasons for

SPAREET:

2

266

NW 66754 Docld:34431969 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-SECREET

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

DATE: 1 November 1963

resigning the program and requesting that the letter be circulated among the fel-

low officers of the class at LAFB.

The letter said that he Muina) left the

course because many of the men who had applied for the various schools, such as

the Intelligence and the Armored Schools, were still at Fort Benning wasting time.

Also, Muina had applied for a demolition course and after he was placed on orders

to go to the course, the orders were cancelled.

Muina did not like this and de-

cided to get out.

Source, who knows Muina well,

is certain that Muina is working

for or with Artime also.

Muina has indicated repeatedly to his friends and to

the officers undergoing the program that Cuba will not gain its liberty with the

assistance of the United States, but needs to look for help from another country.

Muina believes that the United States has decided to apply the principle of co-

existence towards Cuba. Muina also has stated that the United States Government

States covermont

lacks the ability to understand the Latin American problems, and that he is going

to join Artime.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Isidoro Noriega-Ruiz, 2d Lt,

C2 312 369, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th

LAFB, on 24 October 1963.

Jimenez Polo, Rot Us and 00, 2-Pis were 8, 22a, 52312307 d, are 10-

plating resignation, exact reasons unknown.

Of the officers who have resigned

with the intention of joining a group to defeat Castro, Source remembers Antonio

Iglesias-Pons who resigned recently.

Miranda-Hernandez has heard that Iglesias

is recruiting people in Miami to be taken to a camp in Nicaragua which is operated

by Manolo Artime.

2312 345 Timise do to dried and dees sino at arelieved

to have gone to Nicaragua.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Segundo Melanio Miranda-Hernandez,

2d Lt,

C2 312 309, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with

3628th SS, LAFB, or 24 October 1963. .

(SL Diego Emiliano Borges-lorres, Za Lt, C2 312 43te Is attempting to

find out if the ultimate purpose of the Cuban Officer Training Program is identical

to the program which is controlled by Manuel Artime to train people in Nicaragua.

Upon obtaining this information, Borges-Torres is going to inform Source.

If the

plan is the same, everyone in the program will immediately go to Nicaragua because

in Nicaragua the

fight against Castro is more imminent. Help has been offered to

Artime by Somoza of Nicaragua and by de Gaulle of France, who apparently has

offered the Isle of Martinique for the operations against Castro. Manuel Artime

visited Columbus, Georgia, a few months ago and spoke to many Cuban officers and

tried to recruit them as instructors to go to the camp in Nicaragua. Source was

not present at any of the meetings with Artime.

267

SECRET T

3

NW 66754 Docld:34431969 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-SECRET I

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

DATE: 1 November 1963

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Ramon Perez-Veytia, 2d Lt, C2 312

370, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th SS, LAFB,

on 25 October 1963.

(F-3)

8. (S) There is a group of officers within the Cuban Officers Training

Program at LAFB who contemplates submitting their resignations if the United

States has not done anything for the freedom of Cuba by December 1963. Many offi-

cers have indicated their desire to resign in order to join Manuel Artime who is

supposedly organizing a training camy in Nicaragua.

Artime has some contacts

among the officers undergoing training at LAFB, and for a long time, these officers

have been undermining the present training program by spreading dissension among

their fellow officers.

These men also have developed a recruiting campaign to

supply Artime with qualified leaders for the Nicaraguan camp.

Artime's recruiters

at LAFB are: Diego Emiliano Borges-Torres, 2d Lt, C2 312 431; Ladislao George

Fernandez-Martinez, 2d It. C2 312 392; Leon Dilio Carrazana,.

2d Lt, C2 312 341?

Conrado Caballero-Acosta, 2d Lt, C2 312 352a

Borges-Torres is the chief represen-

tative of Artime at LAFB.

He has made several trips to Miami recently and has been

spending much money. He also has an expensive apartment in San Antonio, Texas,

which he shares with Fernandez Martines.

Next in command in the above group is

Fernandez-Martinez. Carrazana has stated to Source that he intends to submit his

resignation in December 1963 to join Artime.

Carrazana also offered Source $250

salary, plus $25 for each child he might have, plus $25 for any position he may

hold in the training camp, if he resigns and goes to Nicaragua. Antonio Iglesias-

Pons will be the man in charge of the of the training camp in Nicaragua.

being rumored that a Latin American country is going to buy planes from England

and make them available to Artime.

It is also rumored that contacts exist with

France, but Source does not know if they are with the Franch government or with

private enterprises.

The. Somoza regime in Nicaragua has also promised assistance

to Artime in the forthcoming operations against Communist Cuba.

In early August

1963 while at Miami, Fernandez-Martinez offered Source $500 if Source would accept

a position in Nicaragua with Artime.

On or about 25 October 1963, Fernandez-

Martinez told Source at LAFB that he (Fernandez-Martinez) wanted to talk to Source

about another offer similar to the first.

Source did not stop to listen as he was

• in a hurry but promised to see Fernandez-Martinez later.

Source was told by one

heriberto Villamil, a Cuban national, Private, undergoing English instruction also

at LAFB, that Luis M. Fernandez-Barrios, Ensign, 672 450, has submitted his resig

nation in order to go to Nicaragua. In

Source's opinion, Borges-Torres persuaded

Fernandez-Barrios to resign.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Ramon Lorenzo Pineiro-Galban, 2d

Lt, C2 312 339, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th

SS, LAFB, on 28 and 29 October 1963.

(F-3)

258

-SECRET T

NW 66754 Docld:34431969 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRETT

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

DATE: 1 November 1963

(C) Renaldo N. Blanco-Navarro, 2d Lt, C2 312 258, 3628th SS, LAFB,

received a telephone call on or about 25 October 1963 from Antonio Iglesias-Pons,

currently in Miami, Florida.

The purpose of the call was apparently to persuade

Blanco-Navarro to

resign from the Cuban Officer: Training Program and join the

camp of Artime in Nicaragua.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Angel Roberto Mujica-Herrera, 2d

It, C2 312 306, Detachment 21, 2d SB, Fort Benning, presently on TDY with 3628th

SS, LAFB, on 30 October 1963.

(F - 3)

10. (C) Gomez-Figueroa and Fernandez-Barrios submitted letters of resignation

to the Liaison Officer, 3628th SS, LAFB, on 28 October 1963.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by Victor F. Zabelle, Captain, Inf,

02263628, U.S. Army Liaison Officer, Student Brigade, Fort Benning, Georgia,

presently on TDY with the 3628th SS, LAFB, on 28 October 1963.

(B-3)

269

SECRET

5

NW 66754 Docld:34431969 Page 6

---

