# docid-32289236

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10012

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

04/23/1958

PAGES:

38

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

6R262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32289236 Page 1

172

---

## Page 2

Rejorttorn

R'D-72 ( 12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE.

CHIC GO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHI CA GO

CHANGED

GUS ALEX,

Martin,

Michael,

Mike

Ryan

DATE

4-23-58

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/18-4/2/58

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI- RACKETEERING

PAS

SYNOPSIS:

L300 North Marine Drive, Chicago, determined to be permanent

day to day residence of GUS ALEX. He resides there with

ARIANG RYAN, well known Chicago model, under the name

"MIKE

ALEX utilizes 9353 South Spaulding, Evergreen Park,

Illinois, the residence of his mother, lor

a mailing address.

his reported to control gambling in the "loop" and South

Side of Chicago.

After ALEX obtained Bureau automobile

license number

on 3/17/53, he attempted to obtain registration

through contacts in the Chicago Police Department, and Cook

county

Illinois, Sheriff's Office. -ALEX known to arive seven

or eight different cars in past thee or four months, at least two

AIX alleged

to own

larm ana race horse.

thougharm not in his naine.

in MidIothian, Illinois,

ALEX and MARIANNE RYAN traveled t

Europe this winter.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND

SORROUS DUE TO HIS DANGEROUS PROPENSITIES.

= P.

APPRO!

Auerbach

SPECTAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau

Detroit

(92-324) (Info.).

Los Angeles (Ínfo.)

Milwaukee (Info.)

New York

Salt Lake

tec relarned,

Mashington field (Inco. phone

Chiango

(92-373)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

+318215

REG. 76.

17 APR 28 1958

MCT - 14

SJUME

RTY OF FBI.-This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loar

: NW 68262 Docld:32289236 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG

,9.2-373

ADMINISTRATIVE

One copy of this report is being sent to Los

Angeles, Milwaukee, Salt Lake City, and Washington Field

due to the

fact that these offices have pending

infestigations gither set out in referenced report of by

separate communications since the date of that report.

copy is being sent to Detroit for information due to the

fact that SAM ALEX, the brother of the subject and

formerly a close associate of his in hoodlum activities in

chicago:

is now residing in Michigan, and further

investigation may be requested of that office.

INFORMANTS

T-1

CG 5973-0

T-2

SANDY SMITH,

Chicago Tribune

reporter

Sergeant MICHAEL A.

SERRITELLA, former

Chief of Police, now

Sergeant, Evergreen

Park Police Department

(upon request)

3-14-58, to SA's

LEONARD TREVIRANUS

and WILLIAM Fo ROEMER

Information furnished

to SA LENARD A.. WOLF

on 1-16-58

3-5-58, to SA ROEMER

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE.

- 3% =

• NW 68262 Docld:32289236 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG

92-373

T -4

HAROLD MCILVENEY,

Sherone Hotel,

Apto 1010, 4423 NO.

Sheridan®

Chicag

upon request)

T- 5

NELS NEILSEN,

Mail carrier

assigned to

Evergreen Park,

Illinois, Post Office

T∞ 6

J0E KRUCZER,

Mail carrier,

Lake View Postal

Subs to soirport,

Chicago, Illinois

T-7

JOHN T. MC INERNEY

721 W. Belden,

Chicago

(upon request)

T- 8

Lieutenant JOSEPH

NORRIS, NA, Chicago

Police

Department

(requested)

contacted regularly

since 3-25-58 by SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

Contacted

1n 2/25/58

and 3/27/58 by

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER?

Contacted 3-4-58,

by SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

Contacted

₫ 1nge 3-3-58, bar ly

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMEF

5

12-4-53, and 12-8-53,

to SA LENARD A. WOLF

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 32 =

NW 68262 Docld:32289236 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG

92-373

T-10

EILEEN EDGAR,

clerks ditinois

Bell Telephone

Company, Chicago,

Illinois

T-11

Mrs.

GLADYS SHEPPARD

Office of Special Agent

Pacific Telephone and

Telegraph Company,

San Diego, California

1-12

SAM NUKES ;

PCI

1=13

0G 6218-0

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32289236 Page 5

3-5-58, to SA WILLIAM

F. ROEMER

3-26-58 to Investigative

Clerk JOHN E. WHALEN

3-20-58 to SAC's

Secretary OLGA CIESA

306-58

2-26-58, to SA

HAROLD D. SELL

2-13-58 to SA

VINCENT L. INSERRA

3-19-58, to SA

VINCENT L. INSERRA

---

## Page 6

CG

92-373

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following criminal informants are furnishing

information on a current basis regarding ALEX's

activities:

CG 5973-0

CG 6218-C

The following criminal informants have furnished

information of ALEX in the recent past, but none during

the period covered by this report:

CG 2951-0

CG 6036-0

CG 6132-0

PCI SAM NUKES furnished information regarding

ALEX during the instant period ard PCI's

ROBERT FERSTEINSTEIN,

and ROBERT T. MARTINO had previously furnished information

regarding ALEX.

The personal habits and general daily routine.

Of ALEX, as well as information concerning residence,

automobiles, relationship with MARIANNE RYAN and associates,

are being covered by two contacts developed during the

instant period

at his residence at 4300 North Marine

These are

servicing ALEX!s apartment..

Mc ILVENEY works the 8:00

A. M. to 4:00 P. M shift, and Mc INERNEY works the 4:00

P. M. to 12 midnight shift, both

work six days a week.

Both have been well acquainted with ALEX for years.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 35 €

NW 68262 Docld:32289236 Page 6

---

