JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/10/201

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90096-10171

HQ

92-2989-58

sak nm
992 (44 USC

the Jol

Records Colles

2107 Note), Casel:Nw
14-201

Document Information

FBI

HQ

07/06/1961
18

CHARLES TOURINE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

07/20/1998

INDEFINITE

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331225 Page 1


|
h
as Flovort Form
I

pesieaetcaes an ~N oe
eed / ey
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office ie Office of Origin Date Investigative Period

NEW YORK MIAMI 7/6/61 4 /24-6/21/61
TITLE OF CASE Report made by : Typed By:
H PAUL G, DURKIN mm.

QO CHARACTER OF CASE
CHARLES’ TOURINE aka
ANTI-RACKETEERING

‘Synopsis:

REFERENCES:

> NY letters to Miami, 4/28,5/19 and 6/6/61. {

Miami letter to NY, 5, 23,/o1.,
Report of SA WILLIAM A, HAMILTON, 4/21/61 at Miami. i

- Pe

ADMINISTRATIVE: i

On 4/24/61, NY 3090-C received a telephone call from

JIMMY DINO from Miami inquiring of her the current

address of MARILYN MILLER and FLICKA MC KENNA since '
he thought he would soon be coming to NYC. He added

if he came he would probably call the CI.

This information is not included in instant report
since it could compromise NY 3090-C, \ )
\

Rpprovea Yager Specie Rat] Do not write im spaces below Sagas
Sear rErra
a seca FIN99¢9- | SK | woe |

“2 - Miami (92-1 aa seu po cma s
2 - New York (92-851) wig JUL 111361 vo

tle hg Yo vw.
| Sin one ‘Ve

TICE DE
DISSEMINATION RESTRICTED TO: ys

* 66 JUL 141961

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI,and neither it nor its contents are to be «

uted outside the agency to which loaned.

Z gf

NW 64578 Docld:32331225 Page 2


NY 92-851

INFORMANTS:

NY T-1 NY 3090-¢ contacted by SA JAMES P, FLYNN

NY T-2 PCI ART FORD contacted by SA JAMES T. MC SHANE
NY T-3 PCI SAUL GOODMAN contacted by SA FRANK W. CORNETT

NY T-4 PCI THOMAS CENSULLO contacted by SAS CHARLES G. DONNELLY

and PAUL G. DURKIN

, Careful consideration has been given to the sources
i concealed and T symbols were utilized in this report only in
those instances when the identities of the sources must be
concealed.

At New York, New York

Will maintain contact with PCIs and CIs for
information concerning subject and his activities.

COVER PAGE
~ Be -

NW 64578 Docld:32331225 Page 3
