# docid-32423643

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/18/20

AGENCY: OSA

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10001-10012

RECORD SERIES :

GENERAL COUNSEL'S FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

64992 Date: 12-07-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CUBA; LATIN AMERICA; SECRETARY MCNAMARA;

DIRECTOR MCCONE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Seeret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Withholt

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/2018

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON REVIEW BY APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

COMMENTS :

BRIEFING PAPERS/NOTES PREPARED BY STAFF FOR SECRETARY MCNAMARA'S

TESTIMONY TO STENNIS COMMITTEE

v9.1

NW 64992 Docld:32423643 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: November 21, 2022

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed Califano Papers RIF 198-10001-10012

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing records in the "Califano Papers"

series in the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) and

documents the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) efforts to reconstruct or

potentially identify duplicate copies of documents located in the Califano Papers.

According to the JFK Assassination Records Collection database, the Collection includes 16

documents that are part of the Office of the Secretary of the Army series titled "General

Counsel's Files."

NARA cannot locate any documents in the Collection that were transferred as General

Counsel's Files. After an exhaustive search, we have determined the following:

It appears that the Army began indexing these records under the series title "General Counsel's

Files."

At a later date, they determined that these records should be identified as "Califano

Papers." Rather than changing the original metadata, they reentered the metadata for the

documents under the "Califano Papers" series. Sixteen documents were entered twice into the

system, but the hard copies of the documents were transferred to NARA as "Califano Papers."

In almost all instances, NARA successfully identified the original Record Information Form (RIF)

number in the General Counsel's Files and the corresponding RIF number in the Califano

Papers. According to the original General Counsel's Files metadata, RIF 198-10001-10012

consists of two pages of briefing papers or notes prepared by staff for Secretary McNamara's

testimony to the Stennis Committee. After comparing the metadata and existing documents, we

feel confident that RIF 198-10001-10012 corresponds to or is closely related to RIF

198-10004-10025 in the Califano Papers.

The documentation for RIF 198-10001-10012 consists of the original Record Information Form,

an explanatory administrative memorandum, RIF 198-10004-10025 from the Califano Papers,

an agency review sheet, and the two-page document. Although the agency review sheet shows

a handwritten 198-10004-10026 identification number in the upper right corner, the sheet was

numbered incorrectly. The subject description clearly matches RIF 198-10004-10025.

NW 64992 Docld:32423643 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date

Page

:10/20/97

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : ARMY

RECORD NUMBER

198-10004-10025

RECORDS SERIES

: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOD

FROM

TO

TITLE : TRANSCRIPT OF MCNAMARA'S NOTES

DATE : 02/14/63

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : CUBA AS A BASE FOR SUBVERSION

APPARENT CONTRADICTIONS: MCCONE VS. MCNAMARA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS : OPEN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:10/07/97

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 3. Transcript of

McNamara's notes

regarding Cuba as a base for

anti-democratic subversion. Notes requested

briefing Stennis Committee. Possibly prepared by J.

Patchell.

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 64992 Docld:32423643 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Originating Agency:

Subject:

Date:

D.D

Cuba/ Congessional Testimony

24i3/05 211363

Other Agency Equities (check those that apply:)

DIA

USAF

Navy

NSC

ONI

OSD

State Dept.

X:200

CIA

*

Joint Staff

Other

(Please specify below)

GSO RECOMMENOS

DECLASSIFICATION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

CALIFAID

BoX 6

NW 64992 Docld:32423643 Page 4

---

## Page 5

i SEARET

1. Cuba as a base for subversion

14Feb63

Mr 1 tamara's

Wistes- ngotd for

Brefrey Stemun, EYES ONLY,

Committee

gup

la. Arms shipment --

Conclusions

Basis for conclusions -- describe form and extent of

survelllance of air and sea movements

b. Every /Latin American Country/ has a Communist

apparatus - - linked in an intimate way to Flavana, and

from Havana to Moscow. There is no question about the

fact that thie is the bridgehead of communism into all of

Latin America.

Prepare country by country analysis in relation to this

statement.

How have the channels of communication changed since

Castro "declared for communism"'.

c. "[Central and South Americal will erode away quite

rapidly, in my opinion /if we don't get the Communists

out of Cuba/'.

Prepare a sophisticated analysis of the strengths and

veaknesses and future prospects of communism in Latin

America and the extent to which the strengths and future

prospects could be influenced by either continuationfof a

Communist government in Cuba

d. "Our evidence is that there is activity going on in Cuba at

an increasing tempo which is directed toward insurgency

operations from Cuba toward Latin American countries,

designed to disturb and overthrow the political regime in

those countries."

1. 1000 to 1500 in training in Cuba at present time and we

know type of training recelved -- cite evidence in

sufficient support of number and nature of training --

activities after return.

2.. Obtain NIE referred to by Cline on page 93.

3. Obtain any evidence, pro or con referring to above.

removal

YES ONLY,

NW 64992 Docld:32423643 Page 5

---

## Page 6

YES ONLY

Capt. Robinson

(53381)

Gards. Castillo

Dr. shute

•. Radio Havana

Content of programs

Comparison with USIA

1. Iranafer of funds, if any, from Cuba to Communiate in L. A.

g. Instances from Cuba to Lantin American groups re

sabotage, etc.

h. Definition of subversion

1. Shipments of propaganda from Cuba -- number, content.

2. Apparent contradictions: McGone va. McNamara

a. Pg. 93: Outbound movement of Frog missiles --

check range of estimates by date - evidence and

circurastances of movement out --

b. Pg 94: re 'Static Situation"' -- check dates of movement

out of personnel and equipment

6. Pg 101: re Sub bases -- Check McCone's "position' in

prior testimony, Obtain all available information re

"Marine base" and its suitability for Sub base.

3.

Review carefully "leads'' and articles in major U.S. dallies

since start of recent Cuban scare for examples of scare headlines

tending to lead public to erroneous evaluation of Cuban threat

vig-a-tis other threats.

nee reporte that ete of lan ate on.

derateled in accordan

man the pile one calf the

adon 170 16 19-800

13 tel

S ONLY,

NW 64992 Docld:32423643 Page 6

---

