JFK Assassination System Date: 4/13/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10207-10405

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 62-9-48-233 : :
eee
. Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: OBRIEN, ARNOLD W.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: — 11/13/1964
PAGES: 35

SUBJECTS :

FCH, JHO, ASSOC, LABOR, RACK AND SUBV, GAMBLING,
NARCOTICS, PR, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 11/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2A, INDEX PAGES 24-28

NW 68262 Bocid:32281623 Page 1


HONAL FORM NO. 10

a ae . A .
7 . \
UNITED STATES GO\_ANMENT CG :
Memorandum -seeney
. DIRECTOR, FBI (105-175983) : DATEG/20/68
- . i

QQ SAC, NEW YORK (134-15734) (Adm) (P)

DARIO JOSE LUCIANO GonrRERAS aka
Jose Luciano Contreras

PSI

IS-DR ;

(00: New York)’

t

Rerep of SA EDWARD J. DEVINS dated’ 6/10/68, at NY.

the provisions of Section 107C of the Manual of Instructions,

1. LUCIANO has been Treasurer of the New York Branch
of the Partido Quisqueyano Democrata (PQD, NY) since the
organization was formed in NY in November, 1967. ‘The P@D,

NY, is registered with the Department of Justice under the Q
a

©)

This letter is being submitted in accordance with 0)
f

fc

provisions of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938,

as amended, and a Short Form Registration Statement was fi

in LUCIANO's name, The PQD has been described as a right-
of-center Dominican political organization, formed during
+1967, and was recognized as a legally const: ‘tuted party in the
Dominican Republic by the Central ElectoraYBoard ony1/19/68.
The PQD has declared former General ELIA SIN ASSN will
be its Presidential candidate in 1970. The Bureau’ is in
possession of all of the NY reports submitted during they. &E,
Internal Security investigation on LUCIANO, which were dated
as follows: 12/19/67; 1/31/68, 3/26/68, 4/18/68 and 6/10/68.

2, Qn 12/13/67, (NY 5679- advised that he was
acquainted with LUCIANO and stat hat LUCIANO, a butcher, _

used to clean up the headquarters of the NY Branch of the
NIE Partido Réformista, the political party of Dominican President
GUER, This source was recontacted on 6/5/68 and

advised” that he knew nothing of a derogatory nature concerning
the character or reputation of LUCIANO, and had no reason to
question his loyalty to democratic principles.

. EX-103" 7
@rpareay (3M), Domingo) (105-3490) [05 / 155 GES / /
2-San Juan (RM

.2-Washington Field (105-85564) (RM) ‘>

eel —eeeli

~!] as > 7
A-New York oo todke sat! SUN 25-1968 ;
Bm: da: 1) by routing s. for — <i

m (#3 ) info oP son LATIN:

60 edi} ebm —

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly oh the Payroll Savings Plan

— ‘sn0-108

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 2



NY 134-15734

On 1/17/68, ENRIQUE a pesionn, who had handled
public relations matters for thé PQD, NY, advised that he
is acquainted with LUCIANO and that he knows nothing of a
derogatory nature concerning the character or reputation

of LUCIANO, adding that LUCIANO is Treasurer of the PQD, NY,
and, es such, must be considered to be anti-Communist and
pro-Us. .

During the course of the Internal Security 5
investigation on LUCIANO, several other sources fauiliar
with Dominican matters in the NY area, advised that they
do not know and could furnish no information concerning
LUCIANO, Inasmuch as LUCIANO's complete name was not known
until he was interviewed on 6/4/68, the following Dominican
sources were recontacted, however, they a11 advised that they
do not know and could furnish no information concerning

LUCIANO.

Source Date Contacted Contacting Agent
NY 2901-S i) 6/5/68 & EDWARD J, DEVINS
2328-8 °/ 5/68 EDWARD J, DEVINS
6089-BY¥t-> TT) RICHARD G, SIKORAL
5900-8] a) /8/68 - HEINRICH VON ECKARDT

3. On 6/17/68, Mr. C.C, SAVA, Chief, Records
Administration and Information Section, INS, 20 West
Broadway, NYC, furnished SA WILLIAM F, MARTIN a photographic
copy of LUCIANO's INS file, #A13 259 194. This file reflects
that LUCIANO was born on 5/22/36 at San Juan de la Maguana,
Dominican Republic, and is a Dominican citizen. He resided
in the Dominican Republic from 1936 until 1962, and was
employed as a hotel administrator at San Juan de la Maguana
and Barahona, His last employment in the Dominican Republic
was in 1961-62, when he was a cashier at the Hotel Paz in
Santo Domingo. His parents are FRANCISCO CONTRERAS, deceased
on 7/10/43, and REGLAXGYGIANO, who was residing at Merine St.,
San Juan de la Maguana as of 1962, He entered the US at San
guan, Puerto Rico, on 5/16/62 as a visitor destined to the

Dom. Re -

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 3



NY°134-15734

Palace Hotel, Santurce. He had Dominican passport number
56952, and listed his Dominican address as Baltazar de los : |
Reyes, Number 63. He subsequently applied for a permanent '
residence visa, and an 0-1 visa, number 446, was issued on

3/21/63 by the US Consulate, Bridgetown, Barbados, British

West Indies. He re-entered the US on 3/23/63 at San Juan,

Puerto Rico, via British West Indian Airways flight #404.

He listed his address as "P.O, Box 115, St. Just, Puerto

Rico - Be, Las Cuevas, Trujillo Alto, Puerto Rico," and stated

that he was destined to his wife, oe Te OAS tom
1625 Naples St., St, Gerardo, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico, mailing
address Box 149, Trujillo Alto, Puerto Rico. He listed as a

friend FRANCISCO (FRANK) & VEZ, 21-33 17th _St..,.Santa_Rosa, H
.Bayamon, Puerto Rico, One MIGUEE\@ORDEROLRIVERA and his wife,
HILDA . N DEXCORDERO, residing at Barrio Las, Cuevas,, .
_Trujille Alto, Puerto Rico, were LUCIANO's sponsors. The Hl
INS file contained a copy of a marriage certificate, which ‘
revealed that DARIO JOSE LUCIANO CONTRERAS and> PROVIDENCIA :
DIAZ MORALES were married on 9/5/62 at Trujillo Alto, Puerto
Rico, Register number 148, District number 70. She is 2
native of Puerto Rico and a US citizen, She was working as
a secretary at the Star Bowling Center, Munos Rivera Ave.,
Rio Hedras, Puerto Rico. . '

During the interview on 6/4/68, LUCIANO advised that
he resided in Puerto Rico from 1962 until 1966. He resided in :
Round Hill, Rio Piedras, and operated a bodega there. He came Hl
to NY in 1966 and has worked as a butcher in the Food City
Supermarket, 2234 Broadway, NYC, since shortly after his
arrival in NY. He resides with his wife and their two young
boys in Apt. 3-B, 225 W. 80th St., NYC, He stated that he
is in good health.

———— es

On 12/19/67, GEORGE BRADLEY, manager of the Food
City Supermarket, advised that LUCIANO has been employed there
as a butcher for about one year. BRADLEY regards him as a
ateady, conscientious employee and knows of no derogatory
information concerning LUCIANO,

-3-

u - we eee Sn en 2

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 4



NY 134-15734

On 12/19/67, Mr. R, COLON, then superintendent at
225 W. 80th St., advised that he is personally acquainted with
‘LUCIANOwho has been residing in Apt, 3B.at that address for
about 2} years. COLON stated that LUCIANO is a reputable and
respectable individual and has never caused any problems in the
apartment . N

4, On 6/5/68, records of the Credit Bureau of Greater
New York, made available to Ic JOHN L, KAPP, contained no
information identifiable with LUCIANO, Records of the Bureau
of Criminal Identification and Bureau of Special Services,
NYCPD, had been checked under the name JOSE LUCIANO CONTRERAS,
during the Internal Security investigation and no information
identifiable with LUCIANO was located, ‘The records are in the

process of being rechecked under LUCIANO's complete name.

An FD-165 has been submitted to the Identification
Division.

5. Not applicable.

6. LUCIANO exhibited his Selective Service Registration
Card, number 53 70 36 163, which revealed that he registered with
Local Board #70, Trujillo Alto, Puerto Rico, on 3/25/63. He is
classified 5A.

7. As previously stated, LUCIANO is married to
PROVIDENGTA, DIAZ MORALES. DBABUCTANO. a native of Puerto Rico,

Citizen, and-is residing with her and their two
young sons, NY files contain no information identifiable
with his wife.

Request of the Bureau

Since LUCIANO's complete name is now known, it is
suggested that Legat, Santo Domingo, recontact logical,
established sources to develop any information bearing on
his suitability as a PSI.

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 5


IL

NY 134-15734 f

LEADS
SAN JUAN

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.

In view of LUCIANO's residence in Puerto Rico from
1962-1966, as set out in paragraph number 3, will contact
logical, established sources having knowledge of Dominican
matters te develop any information bearing on his suitability
as a PSI,

Will check local credit and arrest records in the.
localities where he and his wife resided.

Will search indices on LUCIANO and his wife, as
well as on FRANCISCO (FRANK) J. SHAVEZ, listed in his INS !
file as a friend, and on MIGUEL CORDERO RIVERA and HILDA )
ELENA COLON DE CORDERQ, his sponsors,

Will review his Selective Service record at Local
Board #70, Trujillo Alto, to verify his registration and
elassification, and to determine if he notified his board of
his change of residence. No record was located at Selective
Service Headquarters, NYC,

WASHINGTON FIELD

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.

Will, utilizing LUCIANO's complete name, recheck Hy
records of the State Department, Offices of Visa and Security, ‘
and CIA, for any information bearing on his suitability as a PSI. :

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

Will report results of recheck with BCI and BSS,
NYCPD, and will report any information received from the
identification Division as a result of the submission of the
FD-165.

ee co ee a

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 6


4:22 (Rev. 1-22-60) Toe
Lee Federal Bureau of Inyestigation
~ “ Records Brag "oe
Ry
19
Name Searching Unit - Room 6527
|___} Service Unit - Room 6524
Forward to File Review
. AT Attention WManant.
CPRetun to ATKnas bik Ga) —
Supervisor Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:

gular Request (Analytical Search) 1
Sean References (Subversive & Nonsubversive) :
Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only
Main References Only

Type of Search Requested:
Restricted to Locality of
L_Jexact Name Only (On the Nose)
ad Buildup C1] Variations

ral ‘ at
Subject Vu aamdvace ad Daa, Morale sy

Birthdate & Plgce Lise avo
Address is
' Localities
Searcher
i Re Date eherhe Inituals Be
| Prod. —

PILE NUMBER SERIAL

i Pr witln urea) Dias Bees anne

WOE | os 728923 =/0

: [Prowideness) diay Deora bros

; 2 ME

MD OS~ 1709¢3- 30% 9
Pronidene se) Din, Warabe

io. tur an as 2

Mf
Wren Denn Vaers Paver aunt
Cra tnor ace Gans

| SP

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 7


| rn ~~

| ez ev, 1-22-60)
‘4. Federal Bureau of Iny-stigation '
Records Brar, |
SN

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527
L___}Service Unit - Room 6524
Forward to File Review

. [lAAttention Wem aad,

Cc cturn to Athens B/E RD

Supervisor Room Ext.

Type_of References Requested:

—petutee Reguest (Analytical Search) ‘
‘All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

[Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only
[-"|Main References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of
Exact Name Only (On the Nose}

Buildup —.| Variations

Subject ac Swope terete Com P tag)
Birthdate 6 Place U3/22/aqo. S)22he fh

Address

Localities ‘

Searcher
Ra___ Date —ppafes_ Initials bee! _

Prod.

: FILE NUMBER SERIAL
: we
HE Ques. urs nat, Corn L507 fu) :
108 1 FSGS 3 5
SU 97 = S18 tap AF
St 33 te 7
> WD-Shoc~ py dein 231, RE 370
S/ |ios- 176 786-4
nea Coes Metsteaee) |
Baars, JOD Arde wat donschod,
> “Bree Rehan wird Me
' [Dean en Qe es Peo ts me
Me:

NW 68262 Docid:32291629 Page 3
