# docid-34517432

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

64-54 Date: 11-14-2022

Date

Page

:

:

10/16/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10003-10111

RECORDS SERIES : FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND. ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: .C8005823W - PAGE

• 2021

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE : REPORT

DATE: 09/14/62

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : [ RESTRICTED ]

I RESTRICTED ]

WASHINGTON, DC, VISIT

STATEMENT PLANNED

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI.

COMMENTS: COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

NW 64954 Docld:34517432 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

162

In Reply, Please Refer i g

File No.

5-7596

SWASLINeTO N125, D.0062

GAGEDY 5665 SUNSE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS

JFK

INDEENAL

Beptenher

13, 1962, o confidential informant,

who has furnished reliable information in the past, ad

vised that on

that dates

Carlos Frie Socerre,

President of

contacted Rone Flallo, of the Doninican

Embassy s

Weshington; D

Frie ctated that he wan going

Washington durina the folloving neck, and in view

the eggeavated Cuban probion, was thinking of tesung a

statenent

Doshlagton which he desired to have Flollo

teens,, ate.

Fialle:

after sore ralacionoo, stated that he

would do what he coule

for desocracy, bae

that he had

CONTAMINEN

tabonded

to leave Washlngton on tho

spond a rech: in

the

Donnieon Republic:

Homover, he agreed

KNGLASSIFIED

WHERE SHOWM

to change 119

travel

resorvaldone do as to loure

Wechington

Sacucas ,

and to pass through team were

he was

by

Pndo. (5,

incon

TioNWISE

According

to the June, 1962 issue of the

*Diplonatte

Last,"

published by

the linised Statea Departnent

of State,

Rene Fiallo is Minteter-Counsalor of the Doninican

Labasey a

is.3

ICEMENCO OY SAIJFK TASK FORCE

I RELEASE IN FULL

*. RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL'

This document

contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

2021

CRF FILE CR

NW 64954 Docld:34517432 Page 2

---

