# docid-34530447

## Page 1

Date

Page

11/04/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10169

RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: AC678001R - PAGES 1456-1490

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USAF - OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

FROM : ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR. COL

TITLE : PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT

DATE : 07/29/69

PAGES : 36

SUBJECTS : REPORT OF INVESTIGATION - CUSTOMS VIOLATION - INITIAL

REPORT

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/08/95

OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY USAF

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH USAF HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE PER MEMO DTD 22 AUG 95.

OSI FORM 6, FOR PERIOD 7-21 JUL 69. ATTACHED: PAPER

CYS OF WEAPON AND MUNITIONS, 2 LTRS, SHIPMENT FORMS

AND WITNESS

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54954 Date: 09:22.2022.

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT

Male Born: 5 Jun 15,

It Col, 513-10-4236FR

Eglin AFB, FL

OK

STATUS.

PENDING

CHARACTER

CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

REFERENCE:

INITIAL REPORT

SYNOPSIS

OFFICE: OF ORIGIN

DO 7

UNITED STATES: AIR: FORCE

THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

OFFICE: OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS:

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE: BY:

GROVER C. AYERS, JR., SA

PERIOD

7 - 21 Jul 69

REPORT MADE AT

DO 7

emp

FILE: NR:

07D 18-1

DATE

29 JUL 1969

Investigation requested by Condr, Eglin AFB, FL on 7 Jul 69, to determine circum-

stances surrounding importation of 3 boxes of captured enemy weapons by SUBJECT.

queried by ARPA, a DOD agency, about a box of weapons being sent through ARPA

Investigation disclosed SUBJECT sent 12 weapons to Eglin AFB from SEA

Eleven of these weapons were subsequently shipped from

Eglin ArB to Sionics, Atlanta, at SUBJECT's request and at government expense.

The

twelfth weapon recovered at Eglin AFB. Deputy Condr, AFAIL, advised SUBJECT had no

known authority to send weapons from SEA nor to ship weapons to Sionics; Sionics

Records reflect SUBJECT, since Nov 68, has placed 7

long distance telephone calls to Sionics, at government expense.

In verbal state-

ment, SUBJECT advised he shipped one box containing 12 captured enemy weapons from

SEA in approximately Nov 08 as part of his assigned duties to assist Vice-President

of Sionics; that 1l of the weapons were subsequently forwarded to Sionics in Mar

69, because he considered Sionics an AF contractor. He advised that official

telephone calls were placed for same reason. SUBJECT stated he acted as an agent

for the USAF in all instances.

He declined to execute a written statement at this

time. SUBJECI's former supervisor in SEA advised that he did not authorize or di-

rect the shipment of any captured enemy weapons to Sionics.

Matter coordinated

with U. S. Treasury agents who opined that SUBJECT was in violation of Public Law

90-618.

DISTRIBUTION:

Comdr, Eglin AFB

(action) (w/atchs)

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)

WITHIN USAF

FILE STAMP

This is a privileged document under military

This report may not be reproduced or

given additional dissemination except as

authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is-

classified see. also AFR 205-1.

Dir OSI (watchs)

DO 51 (watchs)

File (w/atchs)

2

1456

2

shad

"USAF

Reviewed By AFOS!

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 SUE

14 AUG 95

Kolax. tra

Commander

PREVIOUS: EDITIONS. OF THIS FORM. WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.

OST

FORM

MAY. 62:

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 2

GPO: 1965-758-092

---

## Page 3

07D 18-1

DETAILS

This investigation was requested by the Commander, Eglin

AFB, Florida or 7 July 1969, based on a request from the

Commander, Air Force Armament Laboratory (AFATL), Eglin AFB

to determine the circumstances surrounding the importation of

three boxes of captured enemy weapons by PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT

(SUBJECT) , Lt Col, 513-10-4236FR, AFATL, during the approxi

mate period of November 1968 - July 1969.

2.

On 7 July 1969,

at Eglin AB, Florida, a letter dated 3

July 1969, from the Commander, AFATL, was reviewed and the body

of the letter is set forth as follows:

"1. It is requested that an investigation be conducted to de-

termine if the laws/regulations regarding the importation of

firearms have been complied with in the following instance.

"a.

Approximately the first week in June Mr Beard of ARPA

called colonel Berkow of ADTC and inquired about a box of enemy

weapons that had been shipped through the transportation

capa-

bilities of ARPA to Eglin AFB, Attention of It Colonel P. A.

Marriott. Colonel Berkow called the Armament Laboratory (AFATL)

since Lt Colonel Marriott is assigned to AFATL.

"b."

A search was made to locate the shipment. Two boxes

were found each containing North Vietnamese weapons.

Both

boxes were addressed as follows: FB2823 USAF (DOL-AFSC) Attn

L/C P. A. Marriott.

"C:

Subsequently, it was discovered that a shipment of

North Vietnamese weapons and ammunition had been received at

Eglin in early March and had been reshipped to Sionics

Corporation, 1655 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia. The

attached documents pertain to this shipment.

"2.

Colonel J. H. Hobaugh, telephone 882-2763, will be available

to discuss in more detail the above information."

The above letter is being retained in the files of OSI District

7 and will be available to proper authority upon request.

3.

On 9 July 1969, J. T. KING, Lt Col, 472-12-2614FR, Staff

Judge Advocate, 320lst Air Base Group, Eglin AB, Florida, was

apprised of the information contained in the above letter, by

SA WILLIAM D. DIXON.

KING advised that in his opinion, there

existed probable cause to warrant the issuance by the Base Com-

mander of an authorization for search and seizure of any captured

enemy weapons contained in the storage facilities of the 3207th

Armament and Munitions Test Support Squadron (AMTS) , Eglin AB.

Réviewed By AFOSI

2

1457

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 R10;

14 AUG 95:

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 3

---

## Page 4

07D 18-1

KING also opined that there was probably a violation of Public

Law 90-618 (Gun Control Act of 1968), possibly a violation of

customs regulations, and possibly a fraud in that government

transportation facilities had been misused.

4 :

On 9 July 1969, DONALD V. THOMPSON, Colonel, 472-12-2614FR,

Deputy Commander, 3201st Air Base Group, Eglin AFB, Florida, was

briefed concerning this matter, by SA DIXON.

Colonel THOMPSON

subsequently executed an Authority to Search and Seize, thereby

authorizing the seizure of any captured enemy weapons contained

in the storage facilities of the 3207th AMTS.

5 •

On 9 July 1969,

a search of the storage facilities of the

320/th AMTS, Building 1270, Eglin ArB, Florida, was conducted by

SA DIXON, in presence of JOSIAH C. MUSICK, CMSgt, FR361-07-1904,

and CLARENCE M. GREEN, SMSgt,

JFK Act 5 (9) (2) (D) NCOIC and Assistant

NCOIC, respectively.

The search revealed the presence of two

packing crates marked for SUBJECT containing a total of 21 various

automatic weapons, five noise suppressors, two range finders. 32

ammunition magazines and a brass plaque mounted on a piece of wood.

The crates and contents.

were seized.and taken as evidence against

proper receipt and are being held by the evidence custodian of OSI

Detachment 710, Egin AFB, Florida, and are available to proper

authority upon request.

6.

On 11 July 1969, this investigation was coordinated with

WILLIAM C. GOODMAN, SSAN: [UK Act 5 (g) (2) (D) and ROBERT E. SANDERS,

SSAN: 150-26-6417, Special Investigators, Alcohol, Tobacco and

Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Service (Treasury

Department), Pensacola, Florida, at Eglin AFB, Florida. GOODMAN

advised that based on the available information, it appears that

SUBJECT is in violation of Public Law 90-618; however, he would

query his headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia and Washington, D. C.

in an attempt to ascertain if SUBJECT had applied for permission

to import the weapons or had submitted application to register.

the weapons GOODMAN added that his inquiry would be accomplished

by the most expeditious means available.: GOODMAN and SANDERS re-

quested

that they be present during the photographing and identi-

fication of the weapons and during all interviews of witnesses and

SUBJECT during this investigation.

7•

On 11 July 1969, at Eglin AFB, Florida, the weapons were

photographed

in the

presence of the writer, SA DIXON. GOODMAN and

SANDERS, by CARD (NMI) CASSULO, SSgt, FR122-14-3910, Photographic

Laboratory, Eglin AEB.

n AB. the woost are

The weapons are further identified as

follows:

1458

3

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 M0/3

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 4

---

## Page 5

07D 18-1

PACKING CRATE NR 1:

1each Light Machine Gun (ChiCom), S/N 930228

1 eạch Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom) : S/N KZ 10682

i each Assault Rifle (AK-47)ChiCom), S/N 11062936

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom), S/N 12057463

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom), S/N 9004420

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (Folding Stock) (ChiCom), S/N 610138

1 each Burp Gun (ChiCom), S/N 368603

1 each Machine Gun (K) (Swedish), S/N 502166

1 each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N AF 305

+ each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N 902098

1 each Rifle (M-14) (USA), S/N 4800

1 each Rifle, Caliber :22 (Winchester M-52), S/N 69494B,

(w/Scope S/N 31411)

1 each Noise Suppressor NI HELE

4A

1 each Noise Suppressor NI 6A

1 each Noise Suppressor Nº 605

1 each Noise Suppressör NI 19

1 each Noise Suppressor (no number)

PACKING CRATE NR 2:

I each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N 424 (w/Scope S/N

DB264)

1 each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N 510 (w/Scope S/N

7078)

1 each Assault Rifle (Swedish), S/N 14449

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom), S/N 12091918

1459

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

•In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 S06

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 5

---

## Page 6

07D 18-1

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom), S/N 12045

1 each Burp Gun (ChiCom), S/N 334002

1 each Machine Gun (M3A1) (US), S/N 607613

1 each Thompson Submachine Gun (US), S/N 255947

1 each Light Machine Gun (w/drum) (ChiCom) , S/N 212160

It is noted that one of the above noise suppressors is marked

"Sionics.

The above mentioned inventory also revealed the presence of a

total of 32 ammunition magazines of various types.

Photographs of the above mentioned weapons are appended to this

report

as attachments

on 14 July 1969, JOHN H. HOBAUGH, Colonel, 165-05-2634FR,

Deputy Commander, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, was interviewed

at

his duty station

by GOODMAN and the writer. Colonel HOBAUGH

advised substantially as follows:

The first part of June 1969,

he received a telephone call from Colonel BERKOW of the

Armament Development and Test Center (ADTC), Eglin AFB

Colonel

BERKOW stated that he had received a call from a Mr. BEARD (NFI)

of the Advance Research Project Agency. (ARPA), a DOD. agency: who

inquired about a box of enemy weapons that had been shipped

through the transportation capabilities of ARPA to Eglin AFB, to

the attention of Lt Col P. A. MARRIOTT. At this time Colonel

HOBAUGH attempted to contact SUBJECT, but was unable to do so as

SUBJECT was on leave; however, he left a message for SUBJECT to

call him the next day.

The next day SUBJECT called Colonel

HOBAUGH and was instructed to telephonically contact Mr. BEARD

and explain to BEARD the circumstances surrounding the shipping

of the enemy weapons..

the circ

At this time Colonel HOBAUGH went on

leave, returning about I July 1969. Upon his return to duty,

Colonel HOBAUGH was asked by Colonel MARTIN, Commander, AFATL, to

look into the circumstances surrounding the shipment of enemy

weapons and ammunition to Sionics from Eglin AFB, Florida and at

the same time showing Colonel HOBAUGH a shipping document, dated

13 March 1969, requesting

the shipment of two boxes of miscel-

laneous equipment to Sionics, 1655 Peachtree Street, NE, Atlanta,

Georgia 30309, Attn: Mr. FRED BROWN, signed by SUBJECT.

Colonel

HOBAUGH fürther stated that the boxes of so called miscellaneous

equipment were found to contain weapons and ammunition and were

therefore repacked and shipped by the organizational logistics

personnel according to their instructions from SUBJECT:

Reviewed By AFÖSI

5

For Public Disclosure

1460

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 106

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 6

---

## Page 7

07D 18-1

Colonel HOBAUGH advised that SUBJECT made several conflicting

statements concerning his knowledge of how the enemy weapons

got into the U.S. from the Republic of Vietnam (RVN). SUBJECT

stated that he thought the weapons were registered by sionics;

SUBJECT stated

that he thought the weapons were for the

museum at Eglin AFB; and SUBJECT denied any knowledge of how

any of the boxes of enemy weapons were sent to Eglin AFB.

SUBJECT stated to Colonel HOBAUGH that while assigned to 7th

Air Force in RVN, he acted as escort officer for MITCHELL

WER BELL III, Vice-President of Sionics, and during such duties

Colonel HOBAUGH also

recalled that SUBJECT had stated that WER BELL was in RVN under

Air Force sponsorship and was a close friend of the Thai Chief

of Staff. Colonel HOBAUGH recalled that Colonel BILL FAGAN was

SUBJECT's supervisor in RVN. Colonel HOBAUGH stated that to the

best of his knowledge the Air Force museum at Eglin AFB has only

a few old Viet Cong weapons as the museum was appointed to dis-

play weapons of U.S. origin and the Air Force Laboratory has no:

test program for enemy weapons.

enemy weapons at Eglin AFB. Colonel HOBAUGH stated that it is

not likely that SUBJECT had any authority to ship any enemy

weapons from RVN, and SUBJECT unequivocally had no authority to

ship any weapons to Sionics as the Air Force Laboratory at Eglin

AFB presently has no

contract with Sionics, nor has it ever had

a contract with Sionics for any purpose.

9.

On 14 July 1969, the following information was disclosed from

a review of SUBJECT's administrative records on file at the CBPO,

Eglin AFB, Florida:

NAME :

PAUL ARNOLD MARIOTT

GRADE/ AF SN:

It Col/FR35859

D&POB :

5 Jun 15/Greenfield, OK

MARITAL STATUS:

Married-2

DATE OF CURRENT ENLISTMENT: 9 Feb 51

DATE OF EST:

None indicated

LENGTH OF SERVICE:

27 years, 1 month

AF SC :

2716

EDUCATION:

BA, 1938

MILITARY RESERVE

AFFILIATION:

SSAN :

DATE ASSIGNED:

DUTY TITLE:

ORGANIZATION:

MAJOR AIR COMMAND:

CLEARANCE:

6

None

513-10-4236

14 Jul 65

Lab Chief Assistant

AFATL, Eglin AFB, FL

AF SC

TOP SECRET, 16 Sep 63, Det 1 SHAPE,

1141st USAF Spc Act Sad, APO 55 NY:

Location of file:

DO 5

Reviewed By AFOSI

1.461

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 Dida

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 7

---

## Page 8

07D 18-1

HOME OF RECORD:

RACE/SEX:

RECORD OF DISCIPLINARY

ACTION:

OTHER PERTINENT

INFORMATION:

c/o Llewellyn Co..

7th at

Montgomery, Fort worth, TX

Caucasian/Male

None indicated

Wife: BETTY B. MARRIOTT.

:14

Alexandria Place SE, Fort Walton

Beach, FL

Highest Award Held: BSM. 26 Dec 68

TDY to SEA, 28 May to 21 Nov 68

10. On 15 July 1969, OTIS R. FRYE, WS-8, SSAN: 228-10-2575,

Freight Checker, 320lst Transportation Squadron, Eglin AFB.

Florida, advised at Eglin AFB, that a review of his files re-

vealed a copy of a Government Bill Of Lading (GBL) Ni 2-6,684,529.

dated 19 May 1969, which reflected an incoming shipment of fire-

arms weighing 183 pounds, from Chief, JUSMAG Thailand, Bangkok,

Thailand, through Charleston AFB, South Carolina to Eglin AFB,

Florida. The shipment was marked: USAF ARMAMENT LABORATORY (DOL-

AFSC) ATTN: LTC P. A. MARRIOTT.

The shipment arrived at Eglin

AFB, Florida on 2

June 1969 and was receipted for by CHARLIE B.

MOBLEY, SSgt, 3207th AMTS on 7 July 1969. FRYE furnished the above.

document to the writer.

A reproduced copy of the document is

appended to this report as an attachment.

The copy furnished by

FRYE is being retained in the files of OSI District 7 and will be

released to proper authority, upon request.

ampy

On 15 July 1969, S. F. REEVES, GS-8, SSAN:

JFK Act 5 (g) 12) (D)

Shipment Planner, 320lst Transportation Squadron,

Eglin AFB,

Florida, advised at Eglin AFB that a review of his files revealed

a copy of a GBL, Nr F-0,648,922, dated 28 March 1969, with an

attached DD Form 1149 (REQUISITION AND INVOICE/SHIPPING DOCUMENT) ,

dated 13 March 1969, Requisition NI FB2823 9073X100XXX, both of

which he furnished to the writer.

A review of these documents

revealed that an outgoing shipment consisting of one box of small

arms ammunition weighing 55 pounds and a box of captured enemy

weapons, weighing 140 pounds, was shipped from AFATL (ATEL), Eglin

AFB, Florida 32542 (Mr. COOLEY/882-2328) to Sionics, 1655

Peachtree Street N.E.,

Atlanta, Georgia 30309, Attn: Mr. FRED

The DD Form 1149 reflects serial numbers for the 1l

weapons as follows: 4514, 1300273, 35285, 68149, 12099391,

928231, 8414320, 12047120, 411564, 700867 and

1. 930843.

Reviewed By AFOSI

7

1402

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 YAR

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 8

---

## Page 9

07D 18-1

A copy of the above mentioned documents are appended to this

report as attachments.

12.: On 15 July 1969, CLARENCE M. COOLEY, GS-9, SSAN: 505-32-

7744, Logistics Officer, AFATL (ATDA-Log) , was

interviewed at

Eglin AFB, Florida, and advised as follows: On 13 March 1969,

Sgt ARNOLD of his office advised him that there were two boxes

of small arms and ammunition in the logistics storage facility

for SUBJECT.

COOLEY stated that he advised SUBJECT that the

arms and ammunition could not be shipped without authorization.

SUBJECT therefore requested by letter dated 13 March 1969 that

the arms and ammunition be shipped as miscellaneous equipment

to Sionics, 1655 Peachtree Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30309, Attn:

Mr: FRED BROWN.: COOLEY therefore made the arrangements for the

shipment and the DD Form 1149, Nr FB2823 9073 X100XXX was exe-:

cuted. A file containing the following documents was furnished

to the writer by COOLEY:

a.

Original letter dated 13 March 1969, signed by SUBJECT.

requesting Mr. COOLEY to ship two boxes of miscellaneous equip-

ment to Sionics.

b. Form letter dated 8 April 1969, to Sionics advising

them of the shipment of weapons and ammunition to them; this

letter reflects shipment received

11 April 1969.

c .

Two copies of AF Form 1149 (with air movement desig-

nator FB 5629 8325X002, 20 Nov 68) reflecting the shipment of

total of 12 captured enemy weapons, 19 magazines, 2 pouches

with magazines,

and1 circular drum, from Hq 7 AF DAFSC APO

96307 to ACK 2823 Eglin AFB, FL 32542, marked: Hold for Itcol

MARRIOTT.

The above mentioned DD. Form 1149 further reflects that an attempt

has been made to obliterate one of the serial numbers from the:

list of 12 weapons.

The

effaced serial number appears to be

9473736.

COOLEY advised that the box of weapons was opened on I3 March

1969 in the presence of SUBJECT and Sgt ARNOLD, and that they

should have knowledge of the missing weapon.

The above mentioned documents are being retained in the files

of OSI District 7. and are available to proper authority upon

request.

Copies of the documents are appended to this

report

as attachments.

1463

8

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 VidA

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 9

---

## Page 10

07D 18-1

13.

On 15 July 1969. JOHN C. LYNCH, SMSgt, FR215-22-3876,

First Sergeant,

AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, furnished to the

writer the AF Forms 1072 (AUTHORIZED LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

CALLS) for the period from I December 1968 to date.

A review

of these forms disclosed that SUBJECT placed seven long

distance telephone calls to either Mr. FRED BROWN or Sionics

at telephone numbers 404-873-3672, 404-873-3673; and 404-366-

7120 during the period from 2 December 1968 to 9 July 1969.

The documents for the pertinent periods are being retained in

the files of OSI District 7, available to proper authority

upon request.

14. On 15 July 1969, LIDA R. McEWEN, SSAN:

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

Secretary, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, advised that she recalled

SUBJECT personally placed a long distance telephone call to

Sionics in approximately December 1968:

On 16 July 1969, PAUL (NMN) ARNOLD, SSgt, FR489-38-5452,

Logistics Office, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida,

was interviewed

at

his duty station and advised substantially as follows: On 13

March 1969, SUBJECT informed him that there were two boxes in

the AFATL storage facility that had to be shipped out.

subsequently went to the storage facility with SUBJECT and Capt

JERRY MCEWEN where the two boxes were opened and were found to

contain weapons and ammunition. Among the weapons there was

one that had apparently been damaged in combat and both SUBJECT

and MCEWEN expressed a great deal of interest in the weapon.

ARNOLD stated that he left the storage facility to proceed to

packing and crating to make arrangements for the shipment, and

SUBJECT and McEWEN were left alone in the facility with the

weapons. ARNOLD stated that he did not see either SUBJECT Or

MCEWEN remove a weapon from that area, but he felt that one of

the other took the weapon, therefore explaining why only ll

weapons were shipped to Sionics.

16. On 16 July 1969, JERALD B. MASSEY, Lt COl, 711-14-9602FR,

Commander, 3207th AMTS, advised at Eglin AFB, Florida that in

approximately February 1969, someone from SUBJECT's office

called him to ask if a box of arms could be stored for a few

days. He assented and the box was therefore stored in Building

1270 until seized by OSI on 9 July 1969.

17.

On 16 July 1969; WARREN G. CooK, CMSgt,

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

3207th AMTS, advised

at Eglin AFB, Florida

I that on 6 July 1969,

SUBJECT called and requested that

a box of weapons, which was

at that time in the transportation storage locker, be picked up

by cook and placed in the AMTS storage area until such time as

SUBJECT could get some plaques made so that the weapons could be

Reviewed By AFOSI

9

1464

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 7104

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 10

---

## Page 11

07D 18-1

displayed in the AFATL museum.

Sgt MOBLEY was therefore

instructed by COOK to proceed to transportation and pick up

the box of weapons, at which time the weapons were

stored

in Building 1270 and remained there until seized by OSI on 9

July 1969.

18•

On 17 July 1969, SUBJECT was interviewed by GOODMAN, supra,

and the

writer at OSI Detachment 710, Eglin AFB, Florida.

Prior

to the interview SUBJECT was advised of the nature of the in-

vestigation; of his rights under the provisions of Article 31..

UCMJ; of his right to remain silent; his right to have a lawyer

present during the interview; and that he could obtain a civilian

lawyer of his own choosing, at his own

the Air Force would appoint a military lawyer for him free of

charge. SUBJECT advised that he wished to waive his rights and

made the following verbal statement:

In approximately November 1968, while assigned to 7th Air Force

Headquarters, RVN, as a munitions expert, he

was ordered by his

OIC, Colonel FAGAN, to assist and süpport WER BELL, the Vice-

President of Sionics, to the fullest extent possible... Therefore,

when WER BELL asked SUBJECT to send

a box of 12 captured weapons

to the U.S., SUBJECT complied by sending the weapons through

official channels to Eglin AB, Florida, as he (SUBJECT) con-

sidered Sionics, and therefore WER BELL, an official Air Force

contractor.

On approximately 13 March 1969, at SUBJECT's request,

11 of the 12 weapons sent to Eglin AFB by him were further sent

to Sionics, after FRED BROWN, President of Sionics, assured

SUBJECT that the weapons had been licensed and registered with the

proper authorities.

The shipment was sent to Sionics through

öfficial government transportation channels,

at government expense.

SUBJECT also admitted placing approximately 7 long distance tele-

phone calls since November 1968 from his office at Eglin AFB,

Florida to Sionics or FRED BROWN in Atlanta, Georgia, at govern-.

ment expense as he (SUBJECT) stated that Sionics is an Air Force

contractor:

SUBJECT further stated that he had the twelfth

weapon that was sent to Eglin AFB from SEA in approximately

November 1968 stored in the lock-up. room at Range 22, Eglin

AF B...

SUBJECT also advised that during

the approximate period of

February to June 1969, two additional boxes of captured enemy

weapons were sent to Eglin AFB, Florida (Attn: Lt Col P. A. MARRIOTT)

from Bangkok, Thailand, by (to the best of SUBJECT's knowledge)

WER BELL.

SUBJECT

then asked the appropriate personnel at Eglin

AFB to store the weapons for safekeeping and SUBJECT stated that if

the weapons were

not sent to Sionics, he assumed the weapons would

be sent to the Air Force museum at Eglin AFB.

SUBJECT further

stated that as the officer responsible for the Air Force museum,.

10

1465

Reviewed By AFÖSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 RU

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 11

---

## Page 12

07D 18-1

he had been ordered to procure foreign weapons for the museum.

SUBJECT stated that he at all times acted as an agent for the

USAF, and at no time acted on his own. SUBJECT subsequently

released to the writer against proper receipt, an AKA-47

Assault Rifle, S/N 9473736, one of the 12 captured enemy weapons

sent by SUBJECT from RVN in approximately November 1968.

It was

noted that when SUBJECT removed the weapon from the lock-up area

at Range 22, Eglin AFB, that it was marked with SUBJECT's name on

the stock.

The above

mentioned

weapon is being retained at OSI

Detachment 710 by the evidence custodian, available to proper

authority upon request.

19.

On 18 July 1969, SUBJECT was reinterviewed at OSI Detachment

579-46-the writers stante Presence e Tocate, eX caT was

again advised of his rights as set forth in paragraph 18, above.

SUBJECT advised that based on advice of his legal counsel, he

wished to make no statement until sometime in the future.

The

interview was then terminated:

20.

On 18. July 1969, Internal Revenue Service Publication 627

(1-69) Gun Control Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-618), was reviewed

at Eglin AFB, Florida by the writer. Pertinent portions of this

document are set forth as follows:

"Sec. 5844. Importation

"No firearm shall be imported or brought into the United States

or any territory under its control or jurisdiction unless the

importer establishes, under regulations as may be prescribed by the

Secretary or his delegate, that the firearm to be imported of

brought in is:

"(1) being imported or brought in for the use of the United

States of any department, independent establishment, or agency

thereof or any State or possession or any political subdivision

thereof: or

"(2) being imported in for scientific or research purposes:

"(3) being imported or brought in solely for testing or use

as a model by a registered manufacturer or solely for use as a

sample by a registered importer or registered dealer;

"Sec. 5845. Definitions

1466

11

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

• In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 *1U3

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 12

---

## Page 13

07D 18-1

"For the purpose of this chapter:

***

**.

"(7) a muffler or a silencer for any firearm is included

"(b) Machinegun: The term machinegun means any weapon which

shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily restored to

shoot, automatically more than one shot, without manual re-

loading, by a single function of the trigger.

The term shall

also include the frame or receiver of any such weapon, any com-

bination of parts designed and intended for use in converting a

weapon into a machinegun, and any combination of parts from which

a machinegun can be assembled if such parts are in the possession

or under the control of a person.

"(c) : Rifle:: The term rifle means a weapon designed or re-

designed, made or remade, and intended to be fired from the

shoulder and designed or redesigned and made or remade to use

the energy of the explosive in a fixed cartridge to fire only a

single projectile through a rifled bore for each single pull of

the trigger, and shall include any such

weapon which may be

readily restored to fire a fixed cartridge.

******

"Sec: 5861. Prohibited Acts

"It shall be unlawful for any person:

"(a) to engage in business as a manufacturer or importer

of, or dealer in, firearms without having paid the special

(occupational) tax required by section 5801 for his business or

having

registered as required by section 5802; or

"(b) to receive or possess a firearm transferred to him in

violation of the provisions of this. chapter;. or

"(c) to receive or possess a firearm made in violation of

the provisions of this chapter; or

"(d) to receive or possess a firearm which is not registered

to him in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record:

******

12

"(i) to receive or possess a firearm which is not

1407

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 KIDS

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 13

---

## Page 14

07D 18-1

"identified by a serial number as required by this chapter; or

"(j) to transport, deliver, or receive any firearm in

interstate commerce which has not been registered as required

by this chapter; or

"(k) to receive or possess a firearm which has been

imported or brought into the United States in violation of section

5844; or

*****

"Sec. 5871. Penalties

"Any person who violates of fails to comply with any provision

of

this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than

$10, 000, or be imprisoned not more that ten years, or both, and

shall become eligible for parole as the Board of Parole shall

determine."

On 21 July 1969, WILLIAM M. FAGAN, Colonel, 533-14-6288FV,

SUBJECT's former commander in RVN, was

interviewed at his summer

home in Destin, Florida.

Colonel FAGAN executed a sworn statement,

pertinent portions of which are set forth as follows:

"On or about 5 Sept 68 I was advised that a Mr. Mitchell wer Bell

of Sionics was arriving at Saigon Airport and would bring some

munitions equipment (guns and suppressors) for demonstration *****

"I assigned It Col Marriott the task of handling all facets of Mr.

Wer Bell's visit which he did by meeting Mr Wer Bell at the

Commercial Terminal and assisted him to get settled in a hotel. Mr

Wer Bell was in RVN as a private citizen and we were aware that he

had no security clearance.

*******

"I departed on a Trip to

CONUS at the end of Nov 68 and returned to Saigon 13 Dec 68.

Mr

Wer Bell was still in SEA, but I did not know where. I was aware

a shipment of guns had gone to Eglin during my absence but had

already arranged through the Commander of FTD W-PAFB that we should

have shipped such

items to FTD and they would forward them to the

designated base.

Idid nothing to counter this Nov 68 shipment as

it was going to the A.F. Armament Lab for a "museum"

.*******

"In early. Feb 69 I found Mr Wer Bell and we concluded that he would

leave RVN. about 17 Feb 69 and he would give me his MACV form 6 and

I would ship back only what he brought over.

I was very specific

about no enemy weapons being involved and if he had such for the Air

Force, that I would ship them to FTD as instructed. After my return

from my second CONUS trip on 23 Apr 69 I found that wer Bell did not

depart RVN. I asked around for him and heard many stories of his

activities and felt I should take direct action.

Icalled the OSI

13

1468

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 CALA

14 AUG 95:

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 14

---

## Page 15

07D 18-1

"about l May 69 and made a statement and asked them to

investigate.

About 7 May I heard Mr Wer Bell was in Bangkok

at the President Hotel. I went there with a Capt Gaylord

and got back the MACV form 6.

the OSt.

I felt that I had closed out our sponsorship, but..

Fo ma closed out

On 14 May I turned it over to

also felt his (Wer Bell's) activities in SEA warranted investi-

gation..

This is why I went to the OSI.' I did not authorize

or direct the shipment of any captured enemy weapons to Mr

Wer Bell and/or Sionics."

The original of the above statement is being retained in the

files of OSI District 7 and will be available to proper

authority upon request. A reproduced copy of the statement is

appended to this report as an attachment.

ATTACHMENTS:

1.

Photograph of the weapons contained in packing crate Nr 1.

2. Close-up photograph of first half of weapons contained in

packing crate Nr 1.

3.

close-up photograph of second half of weapons contained in

packing crate Nr 1.

4.:

Photograph of the weapons contained in packing crate Nr 2.

5:

Close up photograph of first half of weapons contained in

packing crate Nr 2.

6. Close-up photograph of second half of weapons contained in

packing crate Ni 2.

7 .

Photograph of light machine gun contained in packing crate

NI 2:

8 ÷

Close-up photograph of noise suppressor contained in packing

crate Nr 1.

9 :

Overall photograph of noise suppressor contained in packing

crater Nr 1.

10. Exploded view of noise suppressor contained in packing crate

Nr1.

11. Exploded view of noise suppressor with extra piece of

equipment contained in packing crate Nil.

12. Bore shot of suppressor contained in packing crate NIl.

13. GBL, NI 2-6, 684,529, dated 19 May 1969.

14. GBL, Nr F-0,648,922,

dated 28 Mar 69.

15. DD Form 1149, dated 14 March 1969.

16. Letter signed by SUBJECT, dated 13

March 1969.

17. Form letter sent to Sionics, dated 8 April 1969.

18-

DD Form 1149, signed by SUBJECT in RVN, reflecting the

shipment of 12 captured enemy weapons.

19. Reproduced copy of statement executed by Colonel FAGAN on

21 July 1969.

146)

14

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 TUB

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 15

---

## Page 16

07D: 18-1

FOR COMDR,

EGLIN AFB

FOR DIR OSI

FOR DO 51

FOR

FILE

Atchs 1 - 19

PENDING

15

1470

-

Reviewed By AFOSI

'For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 19924N5

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 16

---

## Page 17

A.=47

600442.0

471-476566 51=>

610103%

11.5409

0g0 10-1

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Reviewed By AFOSI

Fot Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 JUS

14 AUG 95

1471

Thin tograph of

Une veapons contained in packelas crate

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 18

---

## Page 19

4K47

11062936

LI MG (CHICON)

930228.

AK47

1210682

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 19

CHICOM BURP

568603

SWEDISH

502146

1K47

12057463

AK47

9004420

AK 47 (foc Six)

610/038

MAGIZINES

FOR

11-3 Sub-MiG

---

## Page 20

LIMG (CHICO)

930228

AK 47

11062936

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 20

CHICAN BURP

502164

AK47

9004420

AK 47 (For Ste)

6101038

AK 47

12,057463

MiNGIZINES

FoR

11-3 Sub. MG

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 199277177

14 AUG 95

1472

---

## Page 21

SWEDISH! K Garm

50.7166

3:40 TL

AF305

B4ORL

902098

M-14

4-800

Wire. Mod. 5e

6949473

45 Mo.g

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SWEDISH!

K 9mm

502/44

Bi4O SAL

$AF305T

B4ORL

902098

M-14

4800

Wire. Hod. St

694943

45Mo.g

M-16 Мод.

Reviewed By AFOSI

Fot Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 KC13

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 22

---

## Page 23

3-

B-40

Roc ile,

'Puca i suo che

!npс7:

Ser

#510

80g emo 17.

11..47

Cifric

$- 334002

liS M341

607613

C10 101

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 23

---

## Page 24

B-40 Roe let

WiTH

SeR it sio

1070%

AX.47

S1P. 12141

Cilicon

his 102 19002:00

4334002

1S.M1311

607613

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 -

14 AUG 95

1.47.17

US -TAGAPSON

455M Gur

4: 255947

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 24

---

## Page 25

(99455111)

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 25

712160

B 40 koche:

Witt

PrfLi

,R*14149

:9.47

+18$ 1209191

970 18-1

Atch 5

---

## Page 26

3-10 incier! number

(ps) 061-

with

Scape

4:14

1474A

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 26

512160

1-40 Koe kr.

"Pussy

... .

With

11.

fine, the

1-p$14949

in pri14

* 8P.$ 1909:91

Chie."

Reviewed By AFOST

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 K1/K

14 AUG 95

J8-I

---

## Page 27

11.

12160

A ll

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 27

---

## Page 28

19160

...( OP.,..

1475

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 28

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 It

14 AUG '

32 8

---

## Page 29

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 29

---

## Page 30

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992

14 A

crata be te

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 30

---

## Page 31

• 19

SE SUPERL!

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 31

---

## Page 32

1477

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 32

HE

SUPFRL!

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 %dk

14 AUG 95

Rote be s

---

## Page 33

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 33

---

## Page 34

1478

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 KUB

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 34

---

## Page 35

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 35

Aten 20

---

## Page 36

Reviewed by AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

4 AY

1-41

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 36

---

## Page 37

11d

Abol

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 37

---

## Page 38

1400

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 JOB

14 AUG 95;

pisa extra piece

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 38

---

## Page 39

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 39

LAva

---

## Page 40

1401

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 Kot

14 AUG 95

3a Dost

casts 3e 1»

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 40

---

## Page 41

SRA

WISDOM, US GOVENOMANE DE dE LADING

MMORANGHT CONY

EXPRESS SEXIE/S (PROTECTIVE SICNATURE

SERVIZORI

B/L NO

2-6,684,529

GRANOFORTATIÓN CONTROL NO.

AT0995 9139 X001 xxx.

DESTINADON

MARIS

BOLIN AFB, FLA. (ODD 30 MAY 69 2PD 03)

RANAGE OUT OFFICER

BGLIN APD, FLORIDA

32542

TRANS

PA: 1

M/F:

USAF

ARMAMENT LAEORATORY (DOL-AFSC

ATTN: LTC PA. MARRIOTT

F.0.8. POINT NAMED IN CONTRACT

CHARLESTON ALB, 9.6.

FULL NAME OF SHIPPER

8M10

437 TIL NAW CHARLESION ARB, 5.C. 29404

PACKAGES

DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLES

(Use Curriers' Classification or Tariff Description if Possibie,

NO.

KIND

Otherwise a Clear Nontechnicai Descriotion.).

CHARTES TO DE GILLES TO MEFARTAGNT DE ESTABLISHMENT. CURTAU OR SERVICE AND LOCATIONS

FINANCE CENTEN

TRONSPORTATION ONISION, M.S. ARMY

IROIAHAPOLIS, INDIANA 40249

APPRODRIATION CHARGEABLE

PEC6 2702D

92X0400.1311 1270 P9G10

0600 583039697

32/3022/80733042737781320/920133716102

WEIGHTS*

BX

FIREARMS, NOI (NVFC: 69300)

C038

8. 8

-183

đn 05

HANDLE I A W, APR 205-1

CONTRACT, PURCHASE ORDER OR OTHER AUTHORITY FOR SHIPMENT

CARRIERS AGENT (Signurs

DATE OF SHIPMENT

DER

5.2652

•Show also cubic measureni cuts for ehipmenta in co

where required

i shored

ISSUING OFFICE

2NO

437CH MAW CHARLESTON AFB,S.C. 29404

IBSENG OFFICER SIGURITY

re and Title)

P. B. ECOND, DARC

26 MAY

CONSIGNEE COPY

3

1482

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

JFKARCA, 1992

14 AUG 95

07018-1

atch -13:

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 41

---

## Page 42

#tandard Form 1103a

Clina dood

1108.112.06

GOVERDMEDT BILLOF LAD

MEMORANDUM

FRANSPOIIATION COMPANY

BAL NO.

F-0,648,922

LAFTIC CONTROL

1?12

STOP

THIS CAR OR TRUCK AT

IMPORTANT

When the original oi this

bill oflading is surrendered

FOR

CAR INITIALS AND NO

to the initial carrier a mem-

orandum copy thereof so

KIND

certified must beforwarded

to the consignee immedi

ately.

IRUCK NO

RECEIVED

BY THC

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY

NAMED

ABOVE.

SUBJECT

TO

CONDITIONS

NAMED

ON

OF

THE

ORIGINAL

BILL

DESCRIBED.

IN

• APPARENT

RING O00

THE

THE

REVERSE

PROPERTY

HEREINAFTER

AND

CONDITION

(CONTENTS

AND

ORDER

VALUE

UNKNOWN).

TO

BE

FORWARDED

TO

DESTINATION

BY THE

SAID COMPANY

AND CONNECTING

LINES.

THERE

TO

DELIVERED

IN LIKE

GOOD ORDER AND

CON-

DITION

TO

SAID

CONSIGNEE.

CONSIGNCE INAME AND MAILING ADDRESSI

S30KACS

1655 FEACSTRGE

SERGET, N.B.

ATLANTA,

GRONGIA

30309

DESTINATION

MILANGA, GEORGIA 1ED:03 DD0:4 APRIL 196S

VIA (ROUTE SHIPMENT ONLY WHEN SOME SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT IS SERVED THEREBY)

CAR TRUCK LGIN

ORDERED

FURNISHCO

MARKED CAPACITY

onoengo

MMACHLO

DATE

FURNISHEDY

DATE D/L ISSUEC

23

MAR

TFURNISH THIS INFORMATION IN CASE OF CARLOAD OR TRUCKLUND SHIPMENIG ONLY

FROM

SHIPPING POINTI-D ELIM ATS, FLA.

32542

FULL NAME OF SHIPPER

JANEVIC MARNGEMENT OFFICIA

MARKS

SEAL NOS.

Reviewed by AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

OdE: MI. FREN BROWN

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992/

14 ALE 9

CHARGES TO BE BILLED TO IDEPARTMENT OR ESTABLISHMENT. BUREAU OR SERVICE AND LOCATIL

FINANCE

CENTER

RANSPORTATION DIVISION

U.

S

ARMY

INDIANAPOLIS 49. INDIANA

FOR CARRIER'S USE ONLY.

APPROPRIATION CHARGEABLE

WAYBILL NO.

FREIGHT BILL NO.

APPLIED BY:

{0N59-72) 3783000

283 4769 E6706 CD 3527900

CONTRACTORS

MENT

WILL

RETURN

OFFICE

FROM

WHICH

RECRISED OR CANCELED BILLS OF LADING TO GOVER

PACKAGES

NO.

KIND

DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLES

USE CARRIERS' CLASSIFICATION OR TARIFF DESCRIPTION IF POSSIBLE

OTHERWISE A CLEAR NONTECHNICAL DESCRIPTIONI

NUMBERS

ON

PACKAGES

WEIGHTS*

EB2923 5073 X100 22X

2

FCS

FERRARMS OR PARTS,ROLLNWC:60300}

SIGALE- AIMS

APRON LILON CARTAIDGESS SMALL AUM,

BLANK OR LONDED)(NOC: 13940)

*CIASS °C* IXELOSIBES

TOZAL

140

$5

5

A07L:

AIN 75-2 CANA 200004 65) 84)

This

15 10

425 гр

tat the above namad

aractos are property

scribed, and are packed

and nia

Acd and ar

in proper condition for

transpoltation accor

ing

to

the regulations

prescribed by the li

erstate Coramerce Com-

mission.

TARIFF OR SPECIAL RATE AUT

ES ICIL • TIL OR VOL. ONLY

IF THIS SHIPMENT FULLY LOADS THE CAR OR TRUCK USED, CHECK

YES

CARRIER FURNISHED

_ PICK UP-

TRAP CAR-

SERVICE AT ORIGIN

INITIALS OF SHIPPER'S AGENT.

NAME OF TRANSPORTATION

CERTIFICATE OF ISSUING OFFICER

OR PURCHASE ORDER NO SAME NEVADE PURSUE TO THE TE

MADE PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF CONTR

OR OTHER AUTHORITY FOR SHIPMENT. F.O.B. POINT NAMED IN CONTRACT.

COMPANY

DATE OF RECEIPTi OF SHIPMENT

SIGNATURE OF AGENT

INITIAL

CARRIER'S AGENT, BY SIGNATURE BELOW. CER-

TIFIES

HE

RECEIVED

THE

ORIGINAL BILL OF LADING.

ISSUING OFFICE EGLIN

YES iNDICATE BY CHECK : 1483

AD: Pet

SIGNATURE OF ISSUING OFFICER..!

DATE

TITLE

MEMORANDUM

COPY

17TA7NO NEE

07D 18-1

CARRIER FURNISHEO

3 DELIVERY -

TRAP CAi

SERVICE AT DESTINATION: AYCL- 14

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 42

---

## Page 43

SHIPPING CONPAINER TALLY

1234567894223433

REQUISITION AND INVOICE/SHIPPING DOCUMENT

20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

29 30 31 32 33 36 35

36

37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 19 50

SHEET NO. OF

NO.

sHEeTS

5. REQUISITION DATE

B. REQUISITION NO.

1. FROM

2073

7. DATE MATERIEL REQUIRED

FB2823 2073 X100XXX

8. PRIORITY

AFATL (ATEL) ESlin AFB, Fla.

32542

(Mr. Cooley/882-2328)

9. AUTHORITY OR PURPOSE

03

IT× 775 13 m02 69

10. SIGNATURE

1110. VOUCHER NUMBER AND DATE

¡Atlanta

Ga

30309

3. SHIP TO - MACE

SIONICS

*1655 Peachtree Street N.E.

Atlanta,

Georgia

30309

Attn:

Mr. Fred Brown

70100641

b. VOUCHER NUMBER AND DATE

13. MODE OF SHIPMENT

18. BILL OF LADING NUMBER

TRUCK

F3648922

15. AIR MOVEMENT DESIGNATOR OR PORT REFERENCE NUMBER

COUNTING AND MINIDIES BEEN

BENERAL, EROGE RUBBER, DESCRIPTION, AND CODINO CE BATARIEL AND/OR SERVICES

UNIT

QUANITY

REQUESTED

SUPPLY

ACTION

Nos.

UNIT PRICE

TA

TOTAL COST

eJi

Captured Enemy Weapons,

Serial #4514; 1300273;

35285;

689149;

12099391; 928231; 8414320; 12047120; 411564;

700867;

930843.

ea

11

V-11

Box Small Arns Anno. 7i6.

eal

V-1

XXXX›

XXXXXXXX LAST ITEM XX:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX›

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

L Box

55 # 364139410

130x

140% 64.

69308

0/1925

Explosine.ee

Signed receipt requested by this organization

TRANSPORTATION VIA MATS

OR NOTS

210 ChoL

12. 1 ISSUED BY

CONTANAS

WINER

ARGAVITULATION

AHIPMENT

CHECKED BY

DESCRIFYION

20x172

K5x15

oF

SACKED BY

TOTAL

NEIGHT

55

1490

TOTAL

CUBE

RECEIPT

17.

SPECIAL

HANDLING

CONTAINERS

RECEiVED

DATE

EXCEPY

NOTED

QUANTITIES

DATE

RECEIVED

EXCEPT A

NOTED

BY

BY

DATE

aY

POSTED

TOTAL

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 0R

14 AUG 95

VOUCHER

NU.

FORM

DD 1 HAR 35 1149

51 52 53

5637 58 59 60 81 62 83 84 65

79 80 81

82 83 84 65 56 87 88 89 90 91 92 93

94 95 96 97 98 99 100

REPLACES EDITION OF I MAY 58 WHICH MAY BE USED

07018-1

Page 43

NW 64954

Docld:34530447

---

## Page 44

DEPARTMEMT OF THE AIR FORCE

AIR FORCE ARMAMENT LABORATORY (AFSC)

EGLIN AIR FORCE DASE, FLORIDA 32542

REPLYTO

ATTN OF: ATS (882-1640)

13 March 1969

SUBJECT: Shipment of Miscellaneous Equipment

TO: ATEL (Mr. Clarence M. Cooley)

1. Please ship two boxes of miscellaneous equipment to:

SIONICS

1655 Peachtree Street, N.E.

Atlanta, Georgia 30309

Attn: Mr. Fred BrOWn

2. It will be necessary to add packing material and band the

boxes prior to shipment.

3. Sgt Arnold knows which boxes are to be shipped and their

location. I suggest he handle the project.

4. Please make this a priority shipment.

PAUL

Lit Col,

USAF"»

Assistant for Systems Support

FBa23 9673X1003

3530

Bldg== 1247

1485

Reviewed By AFOSIT

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 JiNB

14 AUG 95,

07D18-1

atch-16

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 44

---

## Page 45

M. SC

Fu69

DEPARIMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

AIR FORCE ARMAMENT LABORATORY (AFSC)

EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE, FLORIDA 32542

REPLYTO

ATTN OF: ATEL. (MI. Cooley 882-23281

8 April 1969

SUBJECT: Shigment of projist support Equipment, Project. Number Misa.

TO:

Sionics

1655 Peachtree St. NE

Attn: Mr. Fred Brown

Atalanta, Ga.

30309

1. The following equipment/supplies is being shipped to your

activity un tre subject pruject number:

Nomenclature

Stock/Part No.

Qty

weapons.

N/A

Magazines

N/A.

19

Requisition Number

GBL Or Air Bill

FB2823 9073 X100XXX

Shipped 1 Apx 69

REA Express

GBL F0648922

_Pouches

NA

_Circular Drum

NA.

7.62 Munition in clips

2. Please notify this office (ATEL) if the listed property is not

received by the required in-place date of 15 Apr 69

3. Inmediately upon receipt of all the listed property, please .

sign below and return one copy of this letter to AFAIL (ATEL/Mr. Cooley) ,

Eyjin ArE, Florida, 32542. Reply requirca for accounting purposes.

FOR THE COMMANDER

WM F. KINDRED

Logistics Support Officer

THE ABOVE LISTED MATERIEL

WAS RECFIVED ON

4-1169

Date

lorence

4-1169

Signature and Date

1486

:07D 18-1

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992

Fida

14 AUG 95-

atch -17

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 45

---

## Page 46

SHIPPING CONTAINER TALLY

2891012134151

17 18 19

20 21

23

26 27 28 29

30

SHEET

No.

SHEETS

33

35

36

5. REQUISITION DATE

38

39

42.43

REQUISITION NO.

+ 4.

45 46

17 48 49 50

REQUISITION AND INVOICE/SHIPPING DOCUMENT

I. FROM

7. DATE MATERIEL REQUIRED

8, PRIORITY

2. TO

LAZAF DAESE APO 76307(49167)

ACK 1823 EGLIN AFB, FLA:

3. SHIP TO -HAFK FOR

32542

HOLD FOR ACOL MARRIOTT

9. AUTHORITY OR PURPOSE

OFL USE AF ARM. LABI

10, SIGNATURE

are Married s

1a. VOUCHER NUMBER AND DATE

VOUCHER NUMBER AND DATE

13. MODE OF SHIPMENT

14. BILL OF LADING NUMBER

15. 'AIR MOVEMENT DESIGNATOR OR PORT REFERENCE NUMBER

FB. 5268 2225X007

9

OUNTING AND FUNDING DATA

FEDERAL STOCK NUMBER. DESCRIPTION: AND CODING OF MATERIEL ARD/OR SERVICES

CAPTURED FHEMY WEAPONS CONDUAKE)

11514; 500273; 35285;689149;12049391

9282318414320; 12047120;4115641

700867; 930843

MAGAZINES

POUCHES WITH MAGAZINES

CIRCULAR DRUM

TRANSPORTATION YIA MATS

OR MEYS CHARGEABLE TO

ISSUED EY

TOTAL

CONTAINERS FARON.

DESCRIPTION

TOTAL

WEIGHT

TOTAL

CUBE

CKECXED BY

PACKED BY

FORM

ODD , MARSE

1149

51 52 53 54

TOTAL

500382346559768

65 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76

77 78 19 80

REFLACES EDITION OF I MAY 38 WHICH MAY BE USED

T072

COST

12

19

SPECIAL

HANDLING

ICONTAINERS

ReceiveD

EXCEPT AS

NOTED

RECEIVES.

EXCEPT AS

NOTED

POSTED

DATE

DATE

DATE

BY

SHFET TOTAL

83 B$ 85 86 87 B0 B9

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 Лів, но.

14 AUG 95

97

84 S5 109

NW 64954

Docld:34530447

Page 46

---

## Page 47

STATEMENT OF "WiTNESS

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 5D3

14 AUG 95

Destin

Flordia

(Place)

21 July

(Date)

I Colo Willia mi N, Fagan

JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

hereby state that

Ayers , TK

- has identified himself to me

as

perial

05I

(Spel Agent OSl, Air Police Investigator, OTher Specify)

USAF.

I do hereby voluntarily and of my own free will make the following statement without

having been subjected to any coercion, unlawful influence or unlawful inducement.

on or about 5 sept 68 d was advised that a Ms.

at saigon

expreat (guns and suppress for denoistanton

RUN as i

him to the extent that

we oftened a MAll fore

6, Identification and Pruilage Carol, and cal

insanetions, set unji a

for the Chinary,

leveratiation

ta rangelo i to fication

and diet receive a bot (about 3ig3) it

we Mao clips out of Charlester

adried sti

TRAF (DAESE).

1 408

AF FORM 11.69

GPO: +43 16-77632-1

Page 1 01 3 Pages

Sep 61

01018-1

wim, 7;

ATCH -19

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 47

---

## Page 48

I Bell's travelic,

around through SEA!

enticesed and wanted to dare. "fort

his business and send him borne. th

the mouth of hord o located his and

instructed!,

hi that I felt our bussiers

was over and he should prepare to

lace or at least the wond withdra

was that hip of hen the out conce

Shored AsS do his sponsor a Legates

where a fwas aware a shippinet of grus

hat fore to Eglin duri

it were gum"o Con a later

o. (On a Cater

intest shipment. The Noi G8 slipset was

were to be sent on eng put that they

the saile

we erect this toe line a about

17 tl65 and he would

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

JFKARCA, 1992 5D/

14 AUG 95

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 48

WERE PAGE DIME 3 PAGES

---

## Page 49

I further state that I have road this entire statement, Initialed all pages and

corrections, and signed this statement, and that it is correct and true as written.

WITNESSES :

Cellum tagan

(Signaturo)

10 alden da 77 Nalfon Beh

(Addresa)

7Ca.

(Addross)

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a person

- day of =

(Addreas)

GROVER CANERS-JA

(Typod namo of porson administering oath)

SPECIAL AGENT -OS/

(Oficial title and frado)

AF FOG 1170

Sep 61

Reviewed By AFOSI

For Public Disclosure

In Accordance With

TRARCA, 1992 JN6

14 AUG 9

1420

ота бад 16 = тр946 = 1

Page 3 or 3 Pages

w. 3.7

NW 64954 Docld:34530447 Page 49

---

