# docid-32331593

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90097-10215

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

166-637-35

E4578 Date: 12:14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE: •

FBI

BA

HQ

DATE: 10/31/1963

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331593 Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

BA 166-03

JSR :m.jt

Bureau file 92-3000, WFO file 92-81, Baltimore file 92-99.

By airtel dated 8/15/63, Baltimore had called at-

tention of the Miami Division to the fact that CHARLES A.

NORRIS, States Attorney for St. Marys County, Maryland had

been indicted on 8/8/63 for malfeasance in office as a result

of his failure to subpoena before the Grand Jury of St. Marys

County, a pertinent witness.

NORRIS was also charged with

failing

to subpoena the same witness in the trial of JOSEPH

FRANCIS NESLINE, CHARLES TOURINE, and ALLEN CHARLES FISHER

on 6/18/63. It was also pointed

out that Bureau Informant

had previously indicated that "the fix" had been established

in connection with the gambling casino at the Sportsman

Club.

Deputy Sheriff BENJAMIN H. BURROUGHS had advised

that sometime subsequent-to the election of NORRIS in November,

1962 to the office of the States Attorney, he and a political

ally OLIVER BARGUYTHER, an attorney in Leonardtown, Maryland

had taken a trip with their wives to Miami, florida.

stated the possibility existed that if a collusion had developed

between the office of NORRIS and gamblers NESLINE and TOURINE,

this may have occurred during the week that NORRIS and GUYTHER

were vacationing in Miami.

A former associate of ALLEN CHARLES* ISHER, GEORGE

AUD, Lexington Park, Maryland, had advised that whenever FISHER

visits Miami, he stays at the

Treasure Island Motel In Miami.

Miami Division was therefore requested to determine whether

NORRIS and GUYTHER were,

at the Treasure Island Motel at the same

time that FISHER was registered there.

By airtel dated 9/3/63, Miami Division advised that

MrS. FRANKIE CALLAHAN, Manager, Treasure Isle Motel, 1865- 79th St.

Causeway, North Bay Villa, Florida, advisea on 0/30/03, that a

check of her records for the previous Fall months, reflected no

one by the names ALLEN CHARLES FISHER, CHARLES A NORRIS or

OLIVER R. GUYTHER had registered at this Motel.

On 9/27/63, PCI MADELINE ACTON advised SA GERARD R.

LOWE that on 9/18/63, GOERGE RAFT, the movie actor, in the company

of CHARLES TOURINE and JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE met with JOSEPH

WEINER and PAUL J. BAILEY, counsel for TOURINE and NESLINE.

The meeting was in the law offices of WEINER and BAILEY at

Leonardtown, Maryland. Informant stated that she had secured info

from BETTY MORRIETTI, her employer who operates the Hickory

House in Lexington Park, Maryland. MORRIETTI, according to

-

COVER

PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331593 Page 2

---

## Page 3

•BA 166-63

JSR: mjt

Informant, was formerly the subject of a WSTA investigation

conducted by the WFO Division wherein she received a sentence

for WSTA activities. She is also a very close associate of

subject NESLINE.

Informant advised that during the conference, TOURINE

and NESLINE requested their attorneys to make contact with the

States Attorney of St. Marys County, Maryland, CHARLES A. NORRIS.

Subsequently NORRIS reportedly met with RAFT, TOURINE, NESLINE,

BAILEY and WEINER in the law offices of WEINER and BAILEY. It

was the desire of TOURINE and NESLINE to have States Attorney

NORRIS agree to a request of the defense at the hearing of the

appeal of TOURINE and NESLINE from their conviction of their

sentence on the gambling arrest on 6/13/63 at Charlotte Hall,

Marylana.

TOURINE and NESLINE wanted to be assured that the

States Attorney would agree to their request that when they

plead guilty, that maximum fines would be leveled and suspended jail

sentences imposed.

on 9/27/63, BENJAMIN H. BURROUGHS, JF., NA, Deputy

Sheriff of St. Marys

County, Maryland advised SA LOWE that he

had learned from a close source of his, that PAUL J. BAILEY

had approached this source for the purpose of determining if

a statement could be reached by the defense and the States

Attorney in connection with the appeal. BURROUGHS stated

that BAILEY was attempting to determine if it would be agreeable

with the County Commissioners of St. Marys County to state in

Court that maximum fines in this case would be most desirable

on the part of the St. Marys County Commissioners to assist

The chairman of the County Commissioners,

ELLIOTT BURCH, had indicated that no such statement was agreeable

with his oflice and in fact, his office wanted "hands off"

By airtel dated 10/23/63, WFO advised that on 10/22/63

WF 1108-0 informed SA JOHN R. BUCKLEY, that subjects NESLINE and

TOURINE have departed the Washington,

D.C. area for Miami, Florida.

According to informant, NESLINE will conduct booking of sports

events at Miami.

Informant stated NESLINE will remain at

Miami indefinitely and has no current plans to return to Washington,

Informant previously advised that NESLINE had recently

discontinued his affiliation with the numbers activities in the

Washington, D.C. area.

On October 22, 1963, an effort by WFO Agents to con-

tact TOURINE telephonically at the Apolline Apartments, 1330

New Hampshire Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. resulted in the

determination that TOURINE had vacated his apartment and left

a forwarding address of 1125- 14th Street, N.W. 1125- 14th

Street, N.w. is the address for

Mid City Deli,

a well-known

gamblers' hangout.

FRANK BUHLER MARTIN was not observed by Wo during

the week of October 21, 1963.

COVER

-D-

• PAGE

NW 64578 Docld:32331593 Page 3

---

