# docid-33060054

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10299-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

NSA

FROM:

NSA

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted)

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/17/1963

2

HID

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: • 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 65360 Date: 11-17-2022

NW 1/3

Docld:2374

Page 1

NW 65360

Docld:33060054 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Haitian

TAP SECRET DINAR

********NO FOREIGN DISSEM*****

******

XRAY HANDLING REQUIRED

ITSWs 3161

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

HAITI TO REQUEST RECALL OF U.S. EMBASSY OFFICIALS

******

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

3/0/x/T02-64((A))

IS 03 Jan 2129Z P

Dist:

HCF

17 Dec 63

2

EFS

Please deliver this letter

I. IRVING DAVIDSON.

"My dear IRVING:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(ITK

5-ocm

His Excellency has received your cable.

You have left His Excellency's office with the impression

(B val that he) was willing to offer the new Ambassador the

most loyal and frank collaboration.

However, a certain stiffening has characterized the first

contact between TIMMONS and Foreign Minister CHALMERS and

Deputy Foreign Minister RAYMOND at the Foreign Ministry

Building.

The Foreign Ministry's general opinion is that he is the

least qualified at the present time and that his presence could

be fatal for the resumption of relations.

credeptials.

Please see lE he san be recalled before the p5e5 292-35 94.

EUREAU SOURCE - 67 Acuti

His Excellency was informed of your opinion.

DRY((B)) was (B val necessary) •

compLete

JAN 2 3 1964

Haitian

3/0/X/T02-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

: NW 173

Docid:2374

Page 2

NW 65360

Docld:33060054 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TAP SECRET DINAR

***NO FOREIGN DISSEM*44499447xxxxtt

Haitian

3/0/x/T02-64

(B val Anticipating) the Ambassador's arrival, NORMAN

WARREN, JOHN LACEY and (B val company) have redoubled their

ardor against the President.

I believe that it is preferable to make these transfers

without the opinion of any unfriendly person. This action

is always considered unfriendly.

President DUVALIER has asked for these recalls to permit

Ambassador TIMMONS to be the [1 gr. G] of a Haitian-United States

rapprochement.

Therefore, as we say, the departure of JOHN

HACEY (B val and company) is imperative.

We are expecting your immediate reply.

You have seen, My dear IRVING, that the recall of

WARREN, WARNER, HASSEY, MOSS and TIMMONS must be obtained.

JACQUES FOURCAND."

Translater in Engllah EFT

((A)) Previously issued as 3/0

See also 3/0/X/T01-64.

((B)) As in text; possible omission here.

T321-63 (Incomplete text.)F5

JFK Act 5 (g)(2)(D)

MS 974

CN

TI

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

NW 173

Docld:2374

Page 3

NW 65360

Docld:33060054 Page 3

---

