# docid-32294955

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-10214-10231

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-53

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/08/1958

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, BKG, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

68252 Date: 11-16-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32294955 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

CON

PG 92-228, 92-236

in their home and receive practically no visitors

She stated that in several casual conversations

whah Mes: MANNARINO since last contacted she has not spoke

with Mrs.

of her husband's. location nor mentioned any plans to leave

New Kensington for the summer.

JAMES C. POST, neighborhood source, 216 Highland Avenue,

New Kensington, Pa. (telephone number Edison 5-7733) on

May 27, 1958,advised SA DOUCE that he had just returned

Irom his business trip to the orient and learned of the

FBI'S Interest In SAMUEL- MANNARINO from Mrs. POST. He

stated that he would be happy to given his assistance to

the FBI and would be especially alert for any evidence that

would indicate that GABRIEL MANNARINO might be visiting

SAMUEL MANNARIÑO's home..

LEADS

PITTSBURGH

At New Castle, Pa. (Lawrence County)

Will at the former location of Al's Beer Garden attempt to

develop information concerning the present whereabouts of

JIM COWARD who is reported to be cooperative and who could

furnish the location of a hunting lodge owned by the MANNARINO

brothers.

For background information refer to heading of

Places of Amusement and Hangouts Frequented in the attached

report.

At New Kensington, Pa. (Westmoreland County)

1. Will maintain regular contact with PCIS MIKE ZERVOS,

WALTER J: SHARKEY, PG 545-C and PG 564-0 for the purpose of

developing current information regarding the MANNARINO brothers'

legitimate enterprises, criminal activities and associates.

• Wil recontact Mr. and Mrs. MARSSALL HOLT, neighborhood

sources, at 536 Charles Avenue and Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. POST,

neighborhood sources, at 216 Highland Averiue.

- 3 -

NW 68262 Docld:32294955 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CON

TAL

PG 92-228, 92-236

4. Will report investigation being conducted by the

Los Angeles Office to develop information regarding

the MANNARINO brothers! association with STEPHEN

ZOCCOLI who according to the Los Angeles Police Department

reportedly made an unsuccessful attempt to enter the

bar business in Northern California several years ago

because his association with the MANNARINO brothers came

to the attention of the local police.

Investigation

requested in Pittsburgh airtel to Bureau, 4/30/58.

5. When information is received from Philadelphia will

document Philadelphia top hoodlums JAMES OSTICCO and ANGELO

SCIANDRA who according to former commissioner of investigation;

New York State, were in GABRIEL MANNARINO's automobile at

Apalachin, New York, on November 14, 1957.

6.

Will document top hoodlum RUSSELL BUFALINO when information

is received from Philadelphia. Investigation requested

in Pittsburgh airtels to Philadelphia, 5/17 and 20/58.

7.

Will recontact PCI ALFRED CHARLES ZAPPA concerning the

report that the MANNARINO brothers have a numbers operation

at Lloyd's Limited, 1926 Murray Avenue, Pittsburgh, involving

DAVID LAWRENCE and

SONNY (INU), who is probably identical

with SONNY CINSUTTI, Shylock for the MANNARINO organization

In New Kensington.

8.

W111 follow and report SAMUEL MANNARINO's physical

condition.

9. Will report investigation being conducted by the Philadelphia

Officeatat the American Export Lines to determine whether

GABRIEL MANNARINO made a reservation on the "Independence"

for May 6, 1958.

10. Will report results of supplemental investigation being

conducted by the Washington Field Office at the Passport

Division, - Department of State, to. determine whether GABRIEL

MANNARINO has requested permission to travelabroad since stop

was put into effect.on February 3, 1958.

-5 =

TIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32294955 Page 3

---

