| Assassination Records Review Board
| Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA .
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10323 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecards Collection Act of

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ‘992 [44 USC 2107 Note).
e#:NW 68261 Date:
0

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 20

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

| States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.
Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| NW 68261
| Docld:32243289 Page 1



< “ Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

! AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10323

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

| AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE

01/01/77
| PAGES : 34

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
CHENOWITH, JAMES H.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
- CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

. COMMENTS
Box. #:1.

|
|
|

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docld:32243289 Page 2



Se a

_cHEne WETH, FH. eee OFFICE OF THE CLERK :
Hiainé of Employes ) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES |, 7 pataNce srousur

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD PRECEDING. YEA

PRECEDING YEAR

i : ‘Address eae : : : :
: bot : 1977
“Address 7 : : YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE
Soares DAT! TMEI
Firone Number Me ;: a F Nt CATEGORY : : :
fee
Z 1.0 : . fea ets
ee Position Title : eee : : : aia :
: PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE 15 : : : ‘
: : eee
*—aahion Nuinaber cone 771 Sten 2.0 ACCRUED AVAILABLE “ useo BALANCE, we :
Position Number bevel Step Oo THIS MONTH THIS MONTH THIS MONTH ee $2
Month Annual.) Sick | Annual | Sick | Annual | Sick |
Ete 10 Leave | Leave | Leave Leave Leave | Leave Leave Leave
Jan /\/7 ve /
Feb. | 7 ALR
panies |_| fo J a zl
Mar. Jide 3 3
can £1Y¢
‘7 ge '
[|-|— G | L Sj —_— ro) G ae:
Nov. 6
Dec. 7
tal —L

= 0.5 day annual leave CERTIFIED CORRECT:

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave os

or K = 1.0 day sick leave ye =... Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature E Date
an “Uf employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
= 0.5 day administrative leave . :

= 05

or 1.0

= 05
10

W

BRENEREREN |

W 68261

or = 1.0 day administrative leave

day unauthorized absence
day: unauthorized absence
day leave without pay

day. leave without pay

Approved: - ————

Clerk of the House

Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

. EXHIBIT I

1d:32243289 Page 3



SHelect Committee on Assassinations
a Bouse of Representatives

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

ey

COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MEMORANDUM

| NW 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter» \_
or Ballpoint Pen)

_To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
¢

\ hereby authorize the following payroll action:

US. qeouse OF REPRESENTATIVES
¥ <~. Washington, .D.C.20515.

5 (Any erasures, corrections, or.changes
‘on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

SoHo cheaoweta

TE?

Employee Social Security Number”

Type of Action

U8) 12 1326

Employing Office or Committee

Agsasstnatioas

C1 Appointment

O Salary Adjustment

E\ Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title _

Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 7

1. Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or

2

3. J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) ,

Position Number.

why

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees: under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees,-except those of-the Committee onAppropri

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H: Res..

If applicable, Level_

&

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:..

Professional.

|. certify that this authorization is not -in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting. the employment ‘of
relatives. -

ns,the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint-Committees, must

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office of Committee

po a

Nw 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 5



NW 68261

June 1, 1977

The Honorable Louis Stokes

Chairman, Select Committee on Assassinations
Us S. House of Representatives

Washington, D. Ceo

Dear Congressman Stokes ¢

For purely personal reasons I am tendering my resignation
from the staff of the Select Committee on Assassinations.
I would like my resignation to become effective as of the
e¢lose of business on July 11, 1977 but am expressing my
intent at this time so as to provide you with as much
advance notice as possible.

Very truly yours,

James H. Chenoweth
Staff Investigator

Docld:32243289 Page 6



dune 16, 1977

Mr. James H. Chenoweth
13122 Turkey Branch Parkway
Rockville, Maryland 20853

Dear Jim:

I want you to know how much the Committee
and I appreciate your service and how much we
regret that you will no longer be a member of the
staff.

You have our best wishes always. \

| Sincerely yours,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

LS: tle

|| NW 68261 Woe — 7
| Docld:32243289 Page 7 :



Lours STOKES, oM10, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, B.C. JOHN B. ANDERSON, 1UL.

Flore J. rrman, Ino. Select Committee on Assassinations

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

NW 68261

(202) 225-4824 GS. House of Representatives
3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515

June 1, 1977

The Honorable Louis Stokes

Chairman, Select Committee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives

Washington, D. C.

Dear Congressman Stokes:

For purely personal reasons I am tendering my resignation
from the staff of the Select Committee on Assassinations.
I would like my resignation to become effective as of the
close of business on July 11, 1977 but am expressing my
intent at this time so as to provide you with as much
advance notice as possible.

Very truly yours,

UY themowete-

James H. Chenoweth
Staff Investigator

Docld:32243289 Page 8



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM

| (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

A . on this form must be initialed by the
‘or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date \

dames H. Chenoweth 8/2/77 i
: Employee Social Security Number _ a Type of Action i
081 12 1326 1

1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee [Slory Adjustment

(1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$28,000

LESS ANNUITY

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. CJ Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or (J Professional.

2.

FE

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res..465__of95th. Congress...

3. [J Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an: Officer of the House,complete: item below.) . ease

Position Number.

If applicable, Level Steps 2.

|. certify that. this» authorization -is. not. in violation of --5 USE, 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

2 ‘Signature of Authorizing Offical
F Louis Stokes

(Type oF print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

All appointments“and salary adjustments for employeesunder. the: House’ Classification“Act: and for Committee“em--
ployees; except those: of. the. Committee of Appropriations, the: Committee. on’.the- “Budget; and the’ Joint oommiees! must:
be approved by the-Committee on House-Administration:. 3°. «+ eee a a . ‘ 4

APPROVED:.

| Office of Finance use only: 2 aaaee
Office Code

+

d
. ae . - a . wd
.

Nw 68261 ae _
| Docld:32243289 Page 9 ;



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM ~- .

| (Please-Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF. REPRESENTATIVES... (Any erasures,-corrections, or changes

G i ‘on this form must be initialed: by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) < B Effective Date
| dames H. Chenoweth ANtTT i
| Employee Social Security Number no Type of Action

081 12 1326

C1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee [&Solory Adjustment

[Termination (At close of business on effective date)

: Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
| $47,500

LESS ANNUITY

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, (J Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or [] Professional.

2. F Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res of St Congress.

|
| 3. [1] Joint Committee.
|

(If Employee of an’ Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level

| certify that this- authorization is not ‘in. violation
relatives.

Date___-____-___________Aprit_29 19.77.

{Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

All appointments-and, salary. adjustments for.employees: under the House Classification Act-and. for Committee em-:°. =
-  ployees, except those.of the Committee.on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on. House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

| SaPReNCr ee REN OO

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Nw 68261 ~ -— cee
|| Docld:32243289 Page 10



.PAYROLL- AUTHORIZATION: FORM = - |

(Please Use. Typewriter: --- U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: (Any erasures, corrections,:or changes: -

Washington, D.C. 20515 . on this form must be initialed. by the

or Ballpoint Pen) authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
dames K. Chenoweth - 3/1/77
Employee Social.Security Number Type of Action
O81 12 1326 Bia
Employing Office or Committee ) Solory Adjustment
Select Committee on Assassinations Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$21,913
LESS ANRUITY
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. DJ Standing Committee: Staff-[J Clerical or {J Professional.
2.. BW Special or Select Committee: Authority—H.Res._ 222 ___of_ 258A congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an’ Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

if applicable, Level . Step.

cones lecertify. that, this authorization- isnot in. violation. of: 5. U.S.C. 3110(b), ) “Pr
relatives.

ibiting. the employment..of

(Signature of Authorizing Official

wis Stokes, Chairman

{Type oF print nome of Authorizing Official)

Select Committee on Assassinations

All. appointments.and.salary adjustments for employees ‘under the House. Classification Act.and for Committee em-

iployees, except those-of the.Committee: on. Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget,:and the Joint Committees; must
be-approved by the Committee:on House-Administration. -» - , .

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use. only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Commitice

W 68261 ~ — ; =

Docld:32243289 Page 11

4
j



PA ROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

= (Please Use Typewriter
°‘oF Ballpoint Pen)

~ I hereby

“Sito s8is 0-51-88
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515. >

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

orize the following payroll action:

(Any erasures, correctio
~, on this-form: must be: in
“authorizing official).

irst-Middle-Last)

Effective Date’

Employee Name (

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action can

oat 12/1326 °

3. Appointment

“<>: Employing Office or Committee

CO Salory"Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)’.

er, District and Siote)

| Docid:32243289 Page 2

9 Of Ficeior’ Committee».



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM.

Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the:following payroll action:

. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ‘
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or-changes
on this form must be~initialed by the.
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Action

eee Assass

DAppointment

2 Solory Adiyslént

D Termin

fn (At close of business on effective date)

(If type Of action.is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete tepowin information.)

Position Title

WA Gross Annual Salary

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff—

| certify that this. authori:
| relatives.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate.item below.]

Clerical or}

Professional.

Chairman, Co:

\ | Offigg of ‘ A !
a —

1]
| NW 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 13



\

‘ PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM,

(Please'Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House- of: Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
~. Washington, D.C: 20515 > o

, (Any erasures, corrections, of changes

on ‘this form. must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date —

dues Kk. Chenoweth

W77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action ;

&] Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

Ci Solary Adjustment

Wittee on Assassinations

(A Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.) " é

Position Title

vy

taf? Investigator

Gross Annual Salary

56 ’

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [1 Standing Committee: Staff—|

| Clerical or [

3. LJ Joint Committee.

2:7] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res

Professional.

(IF Employee. of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

| certify that this. authorization is: not in vidlation

relatives.

Date__:_

All appointments.and salary adjustments.for employees under the House ‘Classification: Act and: for-Committee em=

‘JT

ployeés, except.:those: of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the:Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by. the Committee on House Administration. ~ a

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administrat

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

NW 68261
ocld:32243289 Page 14



MEMORANDUM

“TO: All Staff Employees
| FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
“the certification:

| father nephew brother-in-law
| mother niece sister-in-law | \
| son husband stepfather | \
| daughter wife stepmother i
“. ~ brother father-in-law stepbrother i
| sister mother-in-low stepsister |
uncle son-in-law half-brother | oe
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister i

first cousin |

All staff employees are requested to complete this :
| form and return it to the Budget officer. |

Approved i
Richard A. Sprague t

I am not related x

‘I am related by the following relationship

| Qu. fe Choouete 10, FPBG 997

(Signature of Employee Dat

Nw 68261 eater . -
'| Docld:32243289 Page 15



Select Committee on Assassinations
GH. House of Representatives

| o¢4- KEP WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515
| Vn ferrin?

hw 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 16



| NW 68261

James H. Chenoweth
' 13122 Turkey Branch Parkway
Rockville, Maryland 20853
Oct. 9, 1976

Richard Sprague

Director, House Select Committee
1622 Locust Street

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103

Dear Mr. Sprague:

You've undertaken quite a task. I think I can be of
use to you and I hope you'll agree.

As my attached resume shows, I have considerable
practical as well as executive experience, not only
in investigating homicides and conspiracies (real or
imagined) but in effectively handling problems that
involve delicate interagency relationships.

I retired from Federal service a little over a year
ago because my retirement would have been mandatory
within a few years anyway and there seemed no purpose
in marking time until then; I am now working as a
free lance photographer. I have no cloud over me and
was cleared for Top Secret at the time I retired. My
ability and reputation are well known to various
officials within Treasury law enforcement circles
including the Commissioner of Customs. As an ex-
Treasury investigator I can be objective about both
the FBI and the CIA; as an ex-Internal Security
Inspector I have lived with the problems of inform-
ation leaks and unethical disclosures. My retirement
status would allow me to work at a minimal salary and
for a fixed period of time.

I hope I have said enough to interest you; I can supply
additional details or discuss the matter with you at
your convenience. But even if you are not interested,

I have a suggestion which might be helpful to your
future inquiries: After the assassination of President
Kennedy, some witnesses claimed to have heard shots
fired from somewhere other than Oswald’s location.
There is a phenomenon called the "bow wave report" in
which persons hearing riflefire from a high-velocity
weapon undergo a "hearing illusion"; they think the
shot camé;direction other than its actual origin. (The
attached reprint of an article I wrote some years ago
touches on the "bow wave report". )

Docld:32243289-Page-1t ————



I don’t know whether the Warren Commission investi-

gators considered this phenomenon in their analysis p \
of witness statements; I have seen no mention of it \
in any published material concerning their inquiry.
However the phenomenon can be tested and consideration
of it could resolve some of the questions that arose
from certain witness statements.

I hope I will hear from you. Whether I do or not,
I wish you the best of luck in your endeavor.

Sincerely,

Ptnmeatt |

James H. Chenoweth
(301) 949-4419

Enclosures: 2

| NW 68261 ~
Docld:32243289-Page-18- — — _ :



|
|
teak

I. PERSONAL DATA

Resume of:

JAMES H, CHENOWETH
13122 Turkey Branch Parkway
Rockville, Maryland 20853
(301) 949-4419

“=-Born of missionary parents on Chinese-Tibetan border .on
February 14, 1922

-Married 27 years; two grown children.
= Good. physical condition; usés reading glasses.
ce - Currently holds Top..Secret ¢learance. <
- Honorably discharged from Us S. Army, Served during World War II
|
5

as combat engineer and paratrooper.

- Enjoys, photography, camping, canoeing.

II. . EXPERTENCE

1/52 ~ 1/54

1/54 - 6/62

6/62 - 8/65

“ g/65-= 10/68

|
1

[eet ES
NW 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 19

10/68 ~ 11/69 -

- Police officer, detective, undercover agent with
Anchorage Police Department, Anchorage, Alaska.

+ Chief Deputy 8. S, Marshal in Alaska with law
enforcement duties comparable to a State Police
agency. Handled recruitment; training, ‘budget,
processing of prisoners, supervision of investi-
gations (including homicide, rape,:.robbery, em-
bezzlement, assault with dangerous weapon and
similar offenses.) Acted as Deputy Coroner.
Taught law enforcement training within agencies
and in Anchorage Community College.

- Internal Security Inspector, Treasury Department, .—
conducting investigations. of bribery, .embezzlement,

attempts to cérrupt Federal personnel,

= Internal Security Inspector,’ National..0ffice, _
responsible for developing and. conducting training
programs, writing technical manuals,’ researching
data, and inspecting the operation of Internal
Security field offices.

Staff Assistant to.Assistant Commissioner, conducting
special studies relating to management aspects of
Internal Security operations. oon Oe



NW 68261

III.

Iv.

oho

11/69 - 2/71 ~- Senior Inspector, Internal Security Division,
supervising training programs, research projects,
technical issuances, manpower allocation, grade
structure analyses, and field inspections.

2/71 - 7/73. - Executive Assistant to Director, Internal Security
Division, acting as consultant, researcher and
advisor on all Internal Security management activity.

7/73-= 7/74 - Chief of Investigations Branch, Internal Security
Division, directly responsible for sensitive inves-
tigations involving activities of high level Federal
personnel, ‘

7/74 - present- Acting Assistant Director, Internal Security Division,
responsible for assisting in all phases of leadership,
direction and coordination of the planning, develop-
ment. and execution of the Internal Security program.

PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS

- Contributor to Journal of Griminal Law, Criminology and Police
Science and to Pacific Northwest Law Enforcement: & News.

- Past president and life member Alaska Peace Officers Association.

~- Member of American Society of Criminology.

- Conducted weekly TV series (The Hidden Beat) on law enforcement.

~ Recipient of Alaska Press Club Award for public service,

- Recipient of Federal High Quality Award and Special’ Performance
Award. :

~- Recipient of various commeridatory letters from U, S. Attorneys,
U. S. District Judge, Federal Grand Jury and other officials.

EDUCATION

- Attended Georgia School of Technology» 3/43 =" 1/44" under “Army
Specialized Training Program.

~ Attended Columbia College 9/46 - 8/49 as liberal arts. student;
all requirements for degree fulfilled except foreign, language.

ADDENDUM

- Personal references upon réquest,
~ Retiring July 31,.1975, after 26 years of Federal’ service: retines:
ment mandatory by ‘January, 1978,

Docld:32243289 Page 20



I. PERSONAL DATA

Resume of:

JAMES H, CHENOWETH
13122 Turkey Branch Parkway
Rockville, Maryland 20853
(301) _ 949-4419

- Born of missionary parents on Chinese-Tibetan border on

February 14, 1922
- Married 27 years; two grown children.

- Good physical condition; usés reading glasses,
~- Currently holds Top. Secret clearance.
- Honorably discharged from Ui S. Army, Served during World War II

as combat engineer and paratrooper.

- Enjoys photography, camping, canoeing.

II. . EXPERIENCE

1/52 = 1/54

1/54 ~ 6/62

6/62 - 8/65

8/65 - 10/68

- Police officer, detective, undercover agent with
Anchorage Police Department, Anchorage, Alaska.

- Chief Deputy t}. S, Marshal in Alaska with law
enforcement duties comparable to a State Police
agency. Handled recruitment, training, budget,
processing of prisoners, supervision of investi-
gations (including homicide, rape, rebbery, em-
bezzlement-, assault with dangerous weapon and
similar offenses.) . Acted as Deputy Coroner.
Taught law enforcement training within agencies
and in Anchorage Conmunity College.

- Internal Security Inspector, Treasury Department,
conducting investigations of bribery, embezzlement,
attempts to corrupt Federal personnel.

- Internal Security Inspector, National Office,
responsible for developing and conducting training
programs, writing technical manuals, researching
data, and inspecting the operation of Internal
Security field offices.

10/68 - 11/69 - Staff Assistarit to Assistant Commissioner, conducting

Docld:32243289 Page 21

special studies relating to management aspects of
Internal Security operations.

i
}
|



IIt.

Iv.

|| Nw 68261
| Docld:32243289

ao

11/69 - 2/71 - Senior Inspector, Internal Security Division,
supervising training. programs, research projects,
technical issuances, manpower allocation, grade
structure analyses, and field inspections,

2/71 -:7/73 = Executive Assistant to Director, Internal Security
Division, acting as consultant, researcher and
advisor on all Internal Security management activity.

7/73 - 7/74  - Chief of Invéstigations Branch, Internal Security
Division, directly. responsible for. sensitive inves-
tigations involving activities of high level Federal
personnel. .

7/74 - present- Acting Assistant Director, Internal Security Division,
responsible for assisting in all phases of leadership,
direction and coordination of the planning, develop-
ment and exeéution of the Internal Security program,

PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS

= Contributor to Journal of Griminal Law, Criminology a
Science and to Pacific Northwest Law Enforcement _& Ne

- Past president and life member Alaska Peace Officers Association.

~ Member of American Society of Criminology.

~- Conducted weekly TV series (The Hidden Beat) on law enforcement.

- Recipient of Alaska Press Club Award for public service,

- Recipient of Federal High Quality Award and Special Performance
Award.

- Recipient of various commeridatory letters from U, S. Attorneys,
U. S. District Judge, Federal Grand Jury. and other officials.

EDUCATION

- Attended Georgia School of Technology 3/43 - 1/44 under Army
Specialized Training Program.

- Attended Columbia College 9/46 - 8/49 as liberal arts student;
all requirements for degreé fulfilled except foreign language.

ADDENDUM
- Personal references upon request,

- Retiring July 31, 1975, after 26 years of Federal service: retire-
ment mandatory by January, 1978,

i
|



MEMO TO FILE

FROM: Sprague.
DATE: December 23, 1976

RE: James H. Chenoweth

Spoke to him today about a position as Acting Security
Chief at a salary of $28,000.-- although I told him that
ultimately he may not remain in that position as I may

want him to work on the Kennedy investigation.

He said he wanted to speak to his wife about it and that

he would get back to me Monday.

Py
Litigation. J fd
vei gating / Jew

bgl

W 68261 i =a
ocld:32243289 Page 23



lock

Reprinted from

‘Tue Jounwat ov Crimmvan Law, CrminoLoay ANb Poutce ScrENce 7

Vol. 51. No. 3, September-Oetober 1960
Printed in U.S.A.

POLICE TRAINING INVESTIGATES THE FALLIBILITY OF THE EYE WITNESS

JAMES H. CHENOWETH

James H. Chenoweth is Chief Deputy U. S. Marshal, Anchorage, Alaska, and a past-president of
the Alaska’s Peace Officers Association, Shortly after his arrival in Alaska in 1951 Mr. Chenoweth
was appointed to the Alaska Police Department as a patrolman and detective, and in January 1954
assumed his present position, Prior to Alaskan statehood U. S. Marshals and their deputies were
charged with the responsibility of enforcing Alaskan law as well as Federal law and in this capacity
operated as a police unit. Among its other activities the Alaska’s Peace Officers Association has con-

ducted several training programs at Anchorage oF

‘A few weeks ago one of the local newspapers in
Anchorage, Alaska, carried a brief item under a
photograph depicting a joyous young man wh
according to the story—had just regained his
freedom after having been erroneously identified by
five witnesses as the person who had committed a
crime in their presence; a fortuitous confession by
the real criminal had clarified the error. While the
memory of this incident still nagged at a corner of
his mind, this writer happened to read (in Harry
Soderman’s fascinating autobiography, Police-
man's Lot) of a case in which some burglars at-
tempted to blow open the safe in a small country
post office; failing to open it with the first blast,
they blew it a second time. During both explosions
the postmaster and his family of four snored away
peacefully upstairs in the far-from-soundproof
frame house.

The conjunction of these two incidents re-
focused attention upon the difficulties facing police
officers who must evaluate the accuracy of witness
testimony. It is one thing to disprove the state-
ments of a witness who deliberately lies; it is quite
a different thing to extract the factual truth from
statements of witnesses who are honestly mistaken
in what they think they see or hear. Any police
officer confronted with the seeming impossibility of
a family of five actually sleeping through two dy-
hamite explosions has our sympathy, as does any
officer whose case is shattered when the testimony
of five eye witnesses is proven wrong. The
safeguard for officers today is a constant awareness
of the fallibility of the “eyeball witness”, an aware-
ness that is tempered by understanding some of the
factors causing fallibility. This was the approach
used by the Alaska Peace Officers Association
when they included a six-hour course on this sub-

ne of which is described in this article—Eprtor,

ject in their advanced training program called
“Scientific Approaches to Investigation” which
was available to all local police officers. For those
who attended, the course itself produced some
thought-provoking results.

Our first session began with a brief introduction
to Sigmund Freud’s three famous lectures on the
psychology of human errors. We discussed the
basic mechanisins involved in making slips-of-the-
tongue, slips-of-the-pen, in mis-reading, mis-hear.
ing, forgetting, and in misdaying things. The ob-
servation of insignificant human errors is of as
mutch assistance to a police officer as it is to a
psychoanalyst, An understanding of such errors
must include a knowledge of the physiological
processes that allow errors to be committed, so we
went on to discuss fatigue, illness, excitement, dis-
tractions, medication, and alcohol, and the part
each of these plays in human errors.

Epistemologists frequently remind us that we
are all caught in the “solipsistic predicament,” a
term embracing the theory that all external data
comes to us only through our senses; the “predica-
ment” exists because the limitations of our senses
also limit our knowledge and our awareness of ex-
periences. Police officers and witnesses alike are
subject to these limitations.

In our course this theory was illustrated graphi-
cally, We started by passing around paper bags
containing various objects which the students were
to identify by touch alone, each student using hi
weakest hand. Vials containing different liquids
were handed out to be identified by taste alone,
each student being requested to pinch his nostrils
while swallowing. Still other materials were to be
identified by aroma alone. At this point we dis-
cussed briefly the problems created by individual

378

nw 68261

2243289 Page 24

1960] R
interpretations of §
“bitter,” “strong,”
edge of semantics is
must work from the
nesses.

About ninety pe
comes to us throug!
ing. Reliability stu
worth our attentio
Gehee made a relic
accuracy of 740 pec
an unfamiliar voice
had elapsed after th
indicated that appr
of the listeners were
ing intervals that c
beyond that point t
rect identification.

Problems frequen
cers who must deter
they are especially |
gunfire. A high-velo
bow-wave in front o
listener with a soui
wave originates fror
gunshot itself, the li
before he hears the
taken; confusing th
gunshot report, he |
cerning the source 0
‘o illustrate som:
asked the students t
a variety of sounds |
ferent locations, incl
their eyes still close¢
to the source of th
their eyes, the variet
the point home. Thi
if different sounds
asked to identily th
police officers could
sound of a gun beir
cigarette lighter,

Visio-errors cause
than any other fort
duced this topic by d
mn, color-blindne
limiting distance |
Rohrschach tests. (
contained numerous
each student to com



1969] :
interpretations of general terms such as “sweet,”
“bitter,” “strong,” “faint,” “sharp;” some knowl-
edge of semantics is beneficial to a peace officer who
must work from the descriptive terms used by wit-
nesses,

About ninety per cent of what we experience
comes to us through the organs of sight and hear-
ing. Reliability studies in both of these areas are
worth our attention, For example, Frances Mc-
Gehee made a reliability study to determine the
accuracy of 740 people who attempted to identify
an unfamiliar voice after various intervals of time
had elapsed after they heard the voice. This study
indicated that approximately eighty-three percent
of the listeners were able to identify the voice dur-
ing intervals that extended up to two weeks, but
beyond that point there was a notable drop in cor-
rect identification,

Problems frequently arise for investigating offi-
cers who must determine the source of sound, and
they are especially troublesome in cases involving
gunfire, A high-velocity bullet in flight builds up a
bow-wave in front of it which assaults the ear of a
listener with a sound-impact. Because this bow-
wave originates from a different location than the
gunshot itself, the listener who hears the bow-wave
before he hears the gunshot may easily be mis
taken; confusing the bow-wave report with the
gunshot report, he may honestly be in error con-
cerning the source of the gunfire.

To illustrate some of these audio-problems, we
asked the students to close their eyes and listen to
a variety of sounds which were produced from dif-
ferent locations, including up near the ceiling. With
their eyes still closed, they were requested to point
to the source of the sounds. When they opened
their eyes, the variety of directions indicated drove
the point home. This test is made more interesting
if different sounds are used and the students are
asked to identify them. Some of our experienced
police officers could not distinguish between the
sound of a gun being cocked and the sound of a
cigarette lighter,

Visio-errors cause more trouble for police officers
than any other form of sensory data. We intro-
duced this topic by discussing retinal fatigue, night-
vision, color-blindness, Vincent’s Rule on the
limiting distance for visual recognition, and
Rohrschach tests. Using visual aid cards which
contained numerous optical illusions, we helped
each student to commit his own “eyeball error.”

PALLIBILITY OF THE EYE WITNESS 379,

At this stage in our course, we digressed a bit
and began relating the many psychological tests
that have been sprung upon unwary students by
having an unannounced incident occur in the class-
room about which the students are later ques-
tioned. With the element of surprise, it is not too
difficult to force someone to commit a human error,
But this type of test does little to remove from the
student’s mind the thought that he would not have
made an error had he not been either concentrating
on the lecture or subjected to the bewilderment of
surprise. To remove this doubt, thus emphasizing
our discussions even more strongly, we announced
that the students were about to witness a skit that
would be enacted in front of the class, We in-
structed the students to take positions where they
could see clearly everything that occurred. Al-
though they were specifically prohibited from
taking notes during the skit, we warned them that
at the end of the session they would be handed
questionnaires to take home and answer before
coming back to class the next week. Because these
questionnaires required information about the skit,
the students were warned to watch closely and re-
member accurately.

‘The skit was relatively simple in plot. A masked
man entered the classroom, carrying a suitcase and
flashlight. He placed the suitcase on a chair, exam-
ined the adjacent area with the flashlight, took a
tobacco canister from a table-top and placed it in
the suitcase. Then he erased a. drawing of a safe on
the blackboard and re-drew it so that the safe door
was open. Next, he took a drink from one of two
bottles on the desk, closed the suitcase, placed the
flashlight in his pocket, and left the room. A clock
stood ostentatiously on the desk; by its mechan-
ism, the entire skit took approximately two min-
utes.

‘The next twenty minutes were spent in discuss-
ing other aspects of visio-error, during which time
the skit was not mentioned at all. The question-
naires were handed out; students were asked to
fill them out without additional help from other
students: The class was dismissed,

A week later, twenty-seven questionnaires were
collected at the beginning of the class. Although
the questionnaire had been designed to fulfill a
number of purposes not pertinent to this article,
some of the questions were simple, direct, and un-
ambiguous. Oddly enough, the answers to these
questions caused the greatest consternation when

uw 68261

Docld:32243289 Page 25



they were tabulated. The following is a sample of
what we found:

1. What time did the skit begin?—The answers
covered a time-span of twenty-five minutes.
(One officer stated he did not know because
he had no watch, apparently overlooking both
the clock on the desk and the one that hung
on the classroom wall.)

2. How long did theskit take?—Answers covered
a span of two to fifteen minutes.

3. What did the burglar wear for a mask?—27
correct answers.

4, What did he carry in his right hand when he
entered?—Only 10 correct answers out of 27.

5. What did: he carry‘in-his:left:hand when he
entered?—Only 8 correct answers out of 27.

6. What did he carry in his right hand when he
left the room?—Only 17 correct answers out
of 27,

7. What did he carry in his left hand when he
left the room?—Only 1 correct answer out of
27.

380 JAMES H. CHENOWETH we (Wol, St

8. When, in the course of the action, did he open
the suitcase?—Only 16 correct answers out
of 27.
9. When, in the course of the action, did he look
at his wrist watch?—Only 10 correct answers
out of 27.

The moral of this story was obvious. The stu-
dents who attended our advanced training program
were experienced police officers from a variety of
police and enforcement agencies. Attending this
course of their own volition, they manifested a
healthy and intelligent attitude toward their police
responsibilities. This experiment, limited in nature
and not without some flaws in its own structure,

--seemed:to indicate rather strongly- that-many: po-

lice officers’ have not developed the ability to see
accurately, or remember with clarity what they
have seen. Carried out under circumstances which
eliminated the element of surprise and focused at-
tention upon the skit itself, we can only conclude
that at least this aspect of police training needs
further encouragement from our agencies.

|

1

Nw 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 26



i

W 68261

Oct. 9, 1976

Richard Sprague

Director, House Select Committee
1622 Locust Street

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103

Dear Mr. Spragues

You've undertaken quite a task. I think I can be of
use to you and I hope you'll agree.

As my attached resume shows, I have considerable
practical as well as executive experience, not only
in investigating homicides and conspiracies (real or
imagined) but in effectively handling problems that
involve delicate interagency relationships.

I retired from Federal service a little over a year
ago because my retirement would have been mandatory
within a few years anyway and there seemed no purpose
in marking time until then; I am now working as a
free lance photographer. I have no cloud over me and
was cleared for Top Secret at the time I retired. My
ability and reputation are well known to various
officials within Treasury law enforcement circles
ineluding the Commissioner of Customs. AS an ex-
Treasury investigator I can be objective about both
the FBI and the CIA; as an ex-Internal Security
Inspector I. have lived with the problems of inform-
ation leaks and unethical disclosures. My retirement
status would allow me to work at a minimal salary. and
for a fixed period of time.

I hope I have said enough to interest you; I can supply
additional details or discuss the matter with you at
your convenience. But even if you are not interested,

i have a suggestion which might be helpful to your
future inquiries: After the assassination of President
Kennedy,. some witnesses claimed to have heard shots
fired from somewhere other than Oswald’s lecation. -
There is a phenomenon called the “bow wave report” in
which persons hearing riflefire from a high-velocity
weapon  ungeEzo a “hearing illusion"; they think the
shot c ivection other than its actual origin. (The
attached Teprint of an article I wrote some years ago
touches—on the “bow wave report".)

locld:32243289 Page 27



I don’t know whether the Warren Commission investi-
gators considered this phenomenon in their analysis
of witness statements; I have seen no mention of it

in any published material concerning their inquiry.
However the phenomenon can be tested and consideration
of it could resolve some of the questions that arose
from certain witness statements.

I hope I will hear from you. Whether I do or not,
I wish you the best of luck in your endeavor.

Sincerely,

dames H. Chenoweth
(301) 949-4419

| NW 68261 ite
Docld:32243289 Page 28 :



Reprinted from
‘Pus Jounvan oF CrimaL Law, CRIMINOLOGY AND Pouien ScrENCE
Vol. 51. No. 3, September-October 1960
Printed in U.S.A.

POLICE TRAINING INVESTIGATES THE FALLIBILITY OF THE EYE WITNESS

JAMES H. CHENOWETH

James H. Chenoweth is Chief Deputy U. $. Marshal, Anchorage, Alaska, and a past-president of
the Alaska’s Peace Officers Association, Shortly after his arrival in Alaska in 1951 Mr. Chenoweth
was appointed to the Alaska Police Department as a patrolman and detective, and in January 1954
assumed his present position. Prior to Alaskan statehood U. S. Marshals and their deputies were
charged with the responsibility of enforcing Alaskan law as well as Federal law and in this capacity
operated as a police unit. Among its other activities the Alaska’s Peace Officers Association has con-

ducted several training programs at Anchorage one of which is described in this article.

‘A few weeks ago one of the local newspapers in
Anchorage, Alaska, carried a brief item under a
photograph depicting a joyous young man who—
according to the story—had just regained his
freedom after having been erroncously identified by
{five witnesses as the person who had committed a
crime in their presence; a fortuitous confession by
the real criminal had clarified the error. While the
memory of this incident still nagged at a corner of
his mind, this writer happened to read (in Harry
Soderman’s fascinating autobiography, Police-
man’s Lot) of a case in which some burglars at-
tempted to blow open the safe in a small country
post office; failing to open it with the first blast,
they blew it a second time. During both explosions
the postmaster and his family of four snored away
peacefully upstairs in the far-from-soundproof
frame house.

The conjunction of these two incidents re-
focused attention upon the difficulties facing police
officers who must evaluate the accuracy of witness
testimony. It is one thing to disprove the state-
ments of a witness who deliberately lies; it is quite
a different thing to extract the factual truth from
statements of witnesses who are honestly mistaken
in what they think they sce or hear. Any police
officer confronted with the seeming impossibility of
a family of five actually sleeping through two dy-
namite explosions has our sympathy, as does any
officer whose case is shattered when the testimony
of five eye witnesses is proven wrong. The best
safeguard for officers today is a constant awareness
of the fallibility of the “eyeball witness”, an aware-
ness that is tempered by understanding some of the
factors causing fallibility, This was the approach
used by the Alaska Peace Officers Association
when they included a six-hour course on this sub-

DITOR.

ject in their advanced training program called
“Scientific Approaches to Investigation” which
was available to all local police officers. For those
who attended, the course itself produced some
thought-provoking results.

Our first session began with a brief introduction
to Sigmund Freud’s three famous lectures on the
psychology of human errors. We discussed the
basic mechanisms involved in making slips-of-the-
tongue, slips-of-the-pen, in mis-reading, mis-hear-
ing, forgetting, and in mis-laying things. The ob-
servation of insignificant human errors is of as
much assistance to a police officer as it is to a
psychoanalyst. An understanding of such errors
must include a knowledge of the physiological
processes that allow errors to be committed, so we
went on to discuss fatigue, illness, excitement, dis-
tractions, medication, and alcohol, and the part
cach of these plays in human errors.

Epistemologists frequently remind us that we
are all caught in the “solipsistic predicament,” a
term embracing the theory that all external data
comes to us only through our senses; the “predica-
ment” exists because the limitations of our senses
also limit our knowledge and our awareness of ex-
periences. Police officers and witnesses alike are
subject to these limitations.

Th our course this theory was illustrated graphi-
cally. We started by passing around paper bags
containing various objects which the students were
to identify by touch alone, each student using his
weakest hand. Vials containing different liquids
were handed out to be identified by taste alone,
each student being requested to pinch his nostrils
while swallowing. Still other materials were to be
identified by aroma alone. At this point we dis-
cussed briefly the problems created by individual

378

HE
NW 68261

Docld:32243289 Page 29



4 1960] FALLIBILITY. OF THE EYE WITNESS 379

interpretations of general terms such as “sweet,”
“bitter,” “strong,” “faint,” “sharp;” some knowl
edge of semantics is beneficial to a peace officer who
must work from the descriptive terms used by wit-
nesses.

About ninety per cent of what we experience
comes to us through the organs of sight and hear-
ing. Reliability studies in both of these areas are
worth our attention. For example, Frances Mc-

.  Gehee made a reliability study to determine the
accuracy of 740 people who attempted to identify
an unfamiliar voice after various intervals of time
had elapsed after they heard the voice. This study
indicated that approximately eighty-three percent
of the listeners were able to identify the voice dur-
ing intervals that extended up to two weeks, but
beyond that point there was a notable drop in cor-
rect identification.

Problems frequently arise for investigating offi-
cers who must determine the source of sound, and
they are especially troublesome in cases involving
gunfire. A high-velocity bullet in flight builds up a
bow-wave in front of it which assaults the ear of a
listener with a sound-impact. Because this bow-
wave originates from a different location than the
gunshot itself, the listener who hears the bow-wave
before he hears the gunshot may easily be mis-
taken; confusing the bow-wave report with the
gunshot report, he may honestly be in error con-
cefning the-source of the gunfire.

To illustrate some of these audio-problems, we
asked the students to close their eyes and listen to
a variety of sounds which were produced from dif-
ferent locationis, including up near the ceiling. With
their eyes still closed, they were requested to point
to the source of the sounds. When they opened
their eyes, the variety of directions indicated drove
the point home. This test is made more interesting
if different sounds are used and the students are
asked to identify them, Some of our experienced
police officers could: not distinguish between the
sound of a gun being cocked and the sound of a
cigarette lighter.

Visio-errors cause more trouble for police officers
than any other form of sensory data, We intro-
duced this topic by discussing retinal fatigue, night-
vision, color-blindness, Vincent’s Rule on the
limiting distance for visual recognition, and
Rohrschach tests. Using visual aid cards which
contained numerous optical illusions, we helped
each student to commit his own “eyeball error.”

a, ;

At this stage in our course, we digressed a bit
and began relating the many psychological tests
that have been sprung upon unwary students by
having an unannounced incident occur in the class-
room about which the students are later ques-
tioned. With the element of surprise, it is not too
difficult to force someone to commit a human error.
But this type of test does little to remove from the
student’s mind the thought that he would not have
made an error had he not been either concentrating
on the lecture or subjected to the bewilderment of
surprise. To remove this doubt, thus emphasizing
our discussions even more strongly, we announced
that the students were about to witness a skit that
would be enacted in front of the class. We in-
structed the students to take positions where they
could see clearly everything that occurred. Al-
though they were specifically prohibited from
taking notes during the skit, we warned them that
at the end of the session they would be handed
questionnaires to take home and answer before
coming back to class the next week. Because these
questionnaires required information about the skit,
the students were warned to watch closely and re-
member accurately,

‘The skit was relatively simple in plot. A masked
man entered the classroom, carrying a suitcase and
flashlight. He placed the suitcase on a chair, exam-
ined the adjacent area with the flashlight, took a
tobacco canister from a table-top and placed it in
the suitcase. Then he erased a drawing of a safe on
the blackboard and re-drew it so that the safe door
was open. Next, he took a drink from one of two
bottles on the desk, closed the suitcase, placed the
flashlight in his pocket, and left the room. A clock
stood ostentatiously on the desk; by its mechan-
ism, the entire skit took approximately two min-
utes.

‘The next twenty minutes were spent in discu
ing other aspects of visio-error, during which time
the skit was not mentioned at all. The question-
naires were handed out; students were asked to
fill them out without additional help from other
students. The class was dismissed.

A week later, twenty-seven questionnaires were
collected at the beginning of the class. Although
the questionnaire had been designed to fulfill a
number of purposes not pertinent to this article,
some of the questions were simple, direct, and un-
ambiguous. Oddly enough, the answers to these
questions caused the greatest consternation when

{

Nw 68261
Docld:32243289 Page 30



Pan

380 JAMES H. CHENOWETH [Vol. 51

they were tabulated. The following is a sample of
what we found:

1. What time did the skit begin?—The answers
covered a time-span of twenty-five minutes.
(One officer stated he did not know because
he had no watch, apparently overlooking both
the clock on the desk and the one that hung
on the classroom wall.)

2. How long did theskit take?—Answers covered
a span of two to fifteen minutes.

3. What did the burglar wear for a mask?—27
correct answers.

4, What did he.carry in his right hand when he
entered?—Only 10 correct answers out of 27.

5. What did he carry in his left hand when he
entered?—Only 8 correct answers out of 27.

6. What did he carry in his right hand when he
left the room?—Only 17 correct answers out
of 27.

7. What did he carry in his left hand when he
left the room?—Only 1 correct answer out of
27.

8. When, in the course of the action, did he open
the suitcase?—Only’ 16 correct answers out
of 27.

9, When, in the course of the action, did he look
at his wrist watch?—Only 10 correct answers
out of 27,

The moral of this story was obvious. The stu-
dents who attended our advanced training program
were experienced police officers from a variety of
police and enforcement agencies. Attending ‘tl
course of their own volition, they manifested a
healthy and intelligent attitude toward their police
responsibilities. This experiment, limited in nature
and not without some flaws in its own structure,
seemed to indicate rather strongly that many po-
lice officers have not developed the ability to see
accurately, or remember with clarity. what they
have seen. Carried out under circumstances which
eliminated the element of surprise and focused at-
tention upon the skit itseli, we can only conclude
that at least this aspect of police training needs
further encouragement from our agencies.



"

Best image possible.

MEMO TO FILE

FROM: Sprague
DATE: December 23, 1976

RE: James H. Chenoweth

Spoke to him today about a position as Acting Security
Chief at a salary of $28,000 -- although I told him that
ultimately he may not remain in that position as I may

want him to work on the Kennedy investigaticn.

He said he wanted to speak to his wife about it and that

he would get back to me Monday.

bgl

W 68261

locld:32243289 Page 32

wow



W 68261

Oct. 9, 1976

Richard Sprague

Director, House Select Committee
1622 Locust Street

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103

Dear Mr. Spragues

You've undertaken quite a task. I think I can be of
use to you and I hope you*ll agree.

As my attached resume shows, I have considerable
practical as well as executive experience, not only
in investigating homicides and conspiracies (real or
imagined) but in effectively handiing problems that
involve delicate interagency relationships.

I retired from Federal service a little over a year
ago because my retirement would. have been mandatory
within a few years anyway and there seemed no purpose
in marking time until then; I am now working as a
free lance photographer. I have no cloud over me and
was cleared for Top Secret at the time I retired. My
ability and reputation are well known to various
officials within Treasury law enforcement circles
including~the-Commissioner of Customs. As an ex-
Treasury invéstigator I can be objective about both
the FBI and the CIA; as an ex-Internal Security

* Inspector I have lived,with the problems of inform-

ation leaks and=anethical disclosures. My retirement
status would allow me to work at a minimal salary and
for a fixed period<of time.

I hope I have satd “enough to interest you; I can supply
additional details or discuss the matter with you at
your convenience. But_even if you are not interested,

I have a suggestion whieh might be helpful to your
future inquiries: After the assassination of President
Kenedy, some witnesses claimed to have heard shots
fired from somewhere other than Oswald*s location.
There is a phenomenon called the “bow wave report* in
which persons hearing riflefire from a high-velocity
weapon undergo a “hearing illusion"; they think the
shot came direction other than its actual origin. (The
attached reprint of an article I wrote some years ago
touches on the "bow wave report”. ) :

locld:32243289 Page 33

a



|
I don*t know whether the Warren Commission investi- i
gators considered this phenomenon in their analysis i
of witness statements; I have seen no mention of it |
in any published material concerning their inquiry. s \
However the phenomenon can be tested and consideration ~ a

of it could resolve some of the ques tions that arose
from certain witness statements.

I hope I will hear from you. Whether I do or not,.
I wish you the best of luck in your endeavor.

Sincerely,

dames H. Chenoweth
(301) 949-419

IW 68261 Too _
locld:32243289 Page 34 7


W 68261

Roprinted from,
‘Tite Jouuyan or Cunuvat Law, Crimexotooy ann Pont
Vol. 51. No. 3, Soptomber-October 1950
Printed in USA.

POLICE TRAINING INVESTIGATES THE FALLIBILITY OF THE EYE WITNESS

JAMES H. CHENOWETH

James H. Chenoweth is Chief Deputy U. S. Marshal, Anchorage, Alaska, and a past-president of
the Alaska’s Peace Officers Association. Shortly after his arrival in Alaska in 1951 Mr. Chenoweth
was appointed to the Alaska Police Department as a patrolman and detective, and in January 1954
assumed his present position. Prior to Alaskan statehood U. S. Marshals and their deputies were
charged with the responsibility of enforcing Alaskan law as well as Federal law and in this capacity
operated as a police unit. Among its other activities the Alaska’s Peace Officers Association has con-
ducted several training programs at Anchorage one of which is described in this article —Epitor,

A few weeks ago one of the local newspapers in
Anchorage, Alaska, carried a brief item under a
photograph depicting a joyous young man who—
accotding to the story—had just regained his
freedom after having been erroieously identified by
five witnesses as the person who had committed a
crime in their presence; a fortuitous confession by
the real criminal had clarified the error. While the
memory of this incident still nagged at a corner of
his mind, this writer happened to read (in Harry
Soderman’s fascinating autobiography, Police-
man’s Lot) of a case in which some burglars at-
tempted to blow open the safe in a small country
post office; failing to open it with the first blast,
they blew it a second time, During both explosions
the postmaster and his family of four snored away
peacefully upstairs in the far-from-soundproof
frame house.

The conjunction of these two incidents re-
focused attention upon the difficulties facing police
officers who must evaluate the accuracy of witness
testimony. It is one thing to disprove the state-
ments of a witness who deliberately lies; it is quite
a different thing to extract the factual truth from
statements of witnesses who are honestly mistaken
in what they think they see or hear. Any police
officer confronted with the seeming impossibility of
a family of five actually sleeping through two dy-
namite explosions has our sympathy, as does any
officer whose case is shattered when the testimony
of five eye witnesses is proven wrong. The best
safeguard for officers today is a constant awareness
of the fallibility of the “eyeball witness”, an aware-
ness that is tempered by understanding some of the
factors causing fallibility. This was the approach
used by the Alaska Peace Officers Association
when they included a six-hour course on this sub-

ject in their advanced training program. called
“Scientific Approaches to Investigation” which
was available to all local police officers. For those
who attended, the course itself produced some
thought-provoking results.

Our first session: began with a brief introduction
to Sigmund Freud’s three famous lectures on the
psychology of human errors. We discussed the
basic mechanisms involved in making slips-of-the-
tongue, slips-of-the-pen, in mis-reading, mis-hear-
ing, forgetting, and in mis-laying things. The ob-
servation of insignificant human errors is of as
much assistance to a police officer as it is to a
psychoanalyst. An understanding of such errors
must include a knowledge of the physiological
processes that allow errors to be committed, so we
went on to discuss fatigue, illness, excitement, dis-
tractions, medication, and alcohol, and the part
cack of these plays in human errors.

Epistemoiogists frequently remind us that we
are all caught in the “solipsistic predicament,” a
term embracing the theory that all external data
comes to us only through our senses; the “predica-
ment” exists because the limitations of our senses
also limit our knowledge and our awareness of ex-
periences. Police officers and. witnesses alike are
subject to these limitations.

In our course this theory was illustrated geaphi-
cally. We started by passing around paper bags
containing various objects which the students were
to identify by touch alone, each student using his
weakest hand. Vials containing different liquids
were handed out to be identified by taste alone,
cach student being requested to pinch his nostrils
while swallowing. Still other materials were to be
identified by aroma alone. At this point we dis-
cussed briefly the problems created by individual

378

2243289 Page 35



W 68261
locid:32243289 Page 36

1960] PALLIBILITY OF THE EY.

interpretations of general terms such as “sweet,””

“pitter,” “strong,” “faint,” “sharp;” some knowl-
edge of semantics is beneficial to a peace officer who
must work from the descriptive terms used by wit-
nesses.

About ninety per cent of what we experience
comes to us through the organs of sight and hear-
ing. Reliability studies in both of these areas are
worth our attention. For example, Frances Mc-
Gehee made a reliability study to determine the
accuracy of 740 people who attempted to identify
an unfamiliar voice after various intervals of time
had clapsed after they heard the voice. This study
indicated that approximately eighty-three percent
of the listeners were able to identify the voice dur-
ing intervals that extended up to two weeks, but
beyond that point there was a notable drop in cor-
rect identification.

Problems frequently arise for investigating offi-
cers who must determine the source of sound, and
they are especially troublesome in cases involving
gunfire. A high-velocity bullet in flight builds up a
bow-wave in front of it which assaults the ear of a
listener with a sound-impact. Because this bow-
wave originates from a different location than the
gunshot itself, the listener who hears the bow-wave
before he hears the gunshot may easily be mis-
taken; confusing the bow-wave report with the
gunshot report, he may honestly be in error con-
cerning the source of the gunfire.

To illustrate some of these audio-problems, we
asked the students to close their eyes and listen to
a variety of sounds which were produced from dif-
ferent locations, including up near the ceiling. With
their eyes still closed, they were requested to point
to the source of the sounds. When they opened
their eyes, the variety of directions indicated drove
the point home, This test is made more interesting
if different sounds are uscd and the students are
asked to identify them. Some of our experienced
potice officers could not distinguish between the
sound of a gun being cocked and the sound of a
cigarette lighter.

Visio-errors cause more trouble for police officers
than any other form of sensory data. We intro-
duced this topic by discussing retinal fatigue, night-
vision, color-blindness, Vincent’s Rule on the
limiting distance for visual recognition, and
Rohrschach tests, Using visual aid cards which
contained numerous optical illusions, we helped
each student to commit his own. “eyeball error.”

WITNESS 379

At this stage in our course, we digressed a bit
and began relating the many psychological tests
that have been sprung upon unwary students by
having an unannounced incident occur in the clas
room about which the students are later ques
tioned. With the element of surprise, it is not too
difficult to force someone to commit a human error.
But this type of test does little to remove from the
student’s mind the thought that he would not have
made an error had he not been either concentrating
on the lecture or subjected to the bewilderment of

surprise. To remove this doubt, thus emphasizing ~

our discussions even more strongly, we announced
that the students were about to witness a skit that
would be enacted in front of the class. We in-
structed the students to take positions where they
could sce clearly everything that occurred. Al-
though they were specifically prohibited from
taking notes during che skit, we warned them that
at the end of the session they would be handed
questionnaires to take home and answer before
coming back to class the next week. Because these
questionnaires required information about the skit,
the students were warned to watch closely and re-
member accurately.

The skit was relatively simple in plot. A masked
man entered the classroom, carrying a suitease and
flashlight. He placed the suitcase on a chair, exam-
ined the adjacent area with the flashlight, took a
tobacco canister from a table-top and placed it in
the suitcase. Then he erased a drawing of a safe on
the blackboard and re-drew it so that the safe door
was open. Next, he took a drink from one of two
‘Dottles on the desk, closed the suitcase, placed the
flashlight in his pocket, and left the room. A clock
stood ostentatiously on the desk; by its mechan-
ism, the entire skit took approximately two min-
utes.

‘The next twenty minutes were spent in discuss-
ing other aspects of visio-error, during which time
the skit was not mentioned at all. The question-
naires were handed out; students were asked to
fill them out without additional help from other
students. The class was dismissed

A week later, twenty-seven questionnaires were
collected at the beginning of the class. Although
the questionnaire had been designed to fulfill a
number of purposes not pertinent to this article,
some of the questions were simple, direct, and un-
ambiguous. Oddly enough, the answers to these
questions caused the greatest consternation when.



i
|

380 JAMES H, CHENOWETH

they were tabulated. The following is a sample of
what we found:

1. What time did the skit begin?—The answers
covered a time-span of twenty-five minutes.
(One officer stated he did not know because
he had no watch, apparently overlooking both
the clock on the desk and the one that hung
‘on the classroom wall.)

2. How long did theskit take?—Answers covered
a span of two to fifteen minutes

3. What did the burglar wear for a mask?—27
correct answers.

4, What did he carry in his right hand when he
entered?—Only 10 correct answers out of 27.

5. What did he carry in his left hand when he
entered?—Only 8 correct answers out of 27.

6. What did he carry in his right hand when he
left the room?—Only 17 correct answers out
of 27.

7. What did he carry in his left hand when he
left the room?—Only 1 correct answer out of
27.

W 68261

12243289 Page 37

[Vol. St

8. When, in the course of the action, did he open
the suitcase?—Only 16 correct answers out
of 27.

9. When, in the course of the action, did he look
at his wrist watch?—Only 10 correct answers
out of 27.

The moral of this story was obvious. The stu-
dents who attended our advanced training program
were experienced police officers from a variety of
police and enforcement agencies. Attending this
course of their own volition, they manifested a
healthy and intelligent attitude toward their police
responsibilities. This experiment, limited in nature
and not without some flaws in its own structure,
seemed to indicate rather strongly that many po-
lice officers have not developed the ability to sce
accurately, or remember with clarity what they.
have seen. Carried out under circumstances which
climinated the clement of surprise and focused at-
tention upon tae skit itself, we can only conclude
that at least this aspect of police training needs
further encouragement from our agencies.



I\

lw 68261

Octs 9» 1976

Richard Sprague

Director, House Select. Committee
1622 Locust Street

Philadelphia,. Pennsylvania 19103

Dear Mr. Spragues

Youve undertaken quite a task. I think I can be of:
use to you and I hope you°ll agree.

As my attached resume shows, I have considerable
practical as well as executive experience, not only.
in investigating homicides and conspiracies (real or
imagined) but in effectively handling problems that
involve delicate interagency’ relationships.

I retired<from Federal service a little over a year
ago becausé my retirement would have been mandatory
within a few years anyway and there seemed no purpose
in marking time until then; I am now working as a
free lance photographer. I have no cloud over me and
was ¢leared for Top Secret at the time I retired. My
ability and reputation are well known to various
officials within Treasury law enforcement circles
ineluding~the—Com ner of Customs. As an ex-<
Treasury invéstigat can be objective about both
the FBI and the CIA; as an ex-Internal Security

~ Inspector I have lived, with the problems of inform-

ation leaks and“imethical disclosures. My retirement
status would allow me to work at a minimal salary and
for a fixed perioc € times

I hope I have safd “enough to interest you; I can supply

additional details or discuss the matter with you at
your convenience. But_even if you are not interested,
I have a suggestion whieh might be helpful to your
future inquiries: After the assassination of President
Kennedy, some witnesses claimed to have heard shots
fired. from somewhere other than Oswald*s location.
There is a phenomenon called the “bow wave report" in
which persons hearing riflefire from a high-velocity
weapon undergo a “hearing illusion": they think the
shot came direction other than its actual origin. (The
attached reprint of an article I wrote some years ago
touches on the “bow wave report”..)

Docld:32243289 Page 38



I don*t know whether the Warren Commission investi-
gators considered this phenomenon in their analysis
of witness statements; I have seen no mention of it

in any published material concerning their inquiry.
However the phenomenon can be tested and consideration
of it could resolve some of the questions that arose
from certain witness statements.

I hope I will hear from you. Whether I do or not,
I wish you the best of luck in your endeavors

Sincerely.

James H. Chenoweth
(30%) 949-419

W 68261 7 0) nn
ocld:32243289 Page 39


I. PERSONAL DATA

Resume of:

JAMES_H, CHENOWETH

13122 Turkey Branch Parkway
Rockville, Maryland 20853

(301) 949-4419

- Born of missionary parents on Chinese-Tibetan border on
February 14, 1922

- Married 27 years; two grown children.

~- Good physical condition; usés reading glasses.

- Currently holds Top Secret clearance.

~ Honorably discharged from Ui S. Army, Served during World War II
as combat engineer and paratrooper.

- Enjoys photography, camping; canoeing.

II. EXPERIENCE
1/52 - 1/54

1/54 ~ 6/62

6/62 - 8/65

8/65 - 10/68

- Police officer, detective, undercover agent with
Anchorage Police Department, Anchorage, Alaska,

+ Chief Deputy §. S, Marshal in Alaska with law
enforcement duties comparable to a State Police
agency.. Handled recruitment, training, budget,
processing of prisoners, supervision of investi-
gations (including homicide, rape, robbery, em-
bezzlement, assault with dangerous weapon and
similar offenses.) Acted as Deputy Coroner,
Taught law enforcement training within agencies
and in Anchorage Community College.

- Internal Security Inspector, Treasury Department,
conducting investigations of bribery, embezzlement,
attempts to corrupt Federal personnel.

- Internal Security Inspector, National Office,
responsible for developing and conducting training
programs, writing technical manuals, researching
data, and inspecting the operation of Internal
Security field offices.

10/68 - 11/69 - Staff Assistant to Assistant Commissioner, conducting

W 68261
ocld:32243289 Page 40

special studies relating to management aspects of
Internal Security operations. E

}



Ww

68261

III.

Iv.

-2-

11/69 - 2/71 - Senior Inspector, Internal Security Division,
supervising training programs, research projects,
technical issuances, manpower allocation, grade
structure analyses, and field inspections.

2/71 - 7/73 - Executive Assistant to Director, Internal Security
Division, acting as consultant, researcher and
advisor on all Internal Security management activity.

7/73 - 7/74 = Chief of Investigations Branch, Internal Security
Division, directly responsible for sensitive inves-
tigations involving activities of high level Federal
personnel,

7/74 - present- Acting Assistant Director, Internal Security Division,
responsible for assisting in all phases of leadership,
direction and coordination of the planning, develop-
ment and exeéution of the Internal Security program.

PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

- Contributor to Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology and Police
Science and to Pacific Northwest Law Enforcement & News.

- Past president and life metiber Alaska Peace Officers Association.

~- Member of American Society.of Criminology.

- Conducted weekly TV series (The Hidden Beat) on law enforcement.

~ Recipient of Alaska Press Glub Award for public service,

- Recipient of Federal High Guality Award and Special Performance
Award.

- Recipient of various commeridatory letters from U, S. Attorneys,
U. S. District Judge, Federal Grand Jury and other officials.

EDUCATION

- Attended Georgia School of Technology 3/43 - 1/44 under Army
Specialized Training Program.

- Attended Columbia College 9/46 - 8/49 as liberal arts student;
all requirements for degreé fulfilled except foreign language.

ADDENDUM
~- Personal references upon request.

- Retiring July 31, 1975, after 26 years of Federal service; retire-
ment mandatory by January, 1978,

locld:32243289 Page 41

