# docid-32289238

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: ' FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10014

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/17/1958

PAGES:

71

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, BKG INVEST

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 1

173

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

GUSKATEY,

was.:

Gust Alex,

Gussie AlEx:

Ma chau

Mike Ryan, "Siim"

Marti Banands""

002=17-58

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/28; 6/2,3,4/58

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM F. ROEMER, Jr.

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED DY

ntb

SYNOPSIS:

SUMMARY REPORT

ALEX was born in Chicago, Ill. He holds no known legitimate employ-

ment.

He claims to be married to MARIANNE RYAN, well-known Chicago

model, but marriago not verified.

and now lives at 4300 No. Marine Drive.

Resided in Chicago all his life

ALEX is an associato of

many of the top hoodlums in Chicago area, particularly of EDDY

VOGEL. ALEX was formerly the bodyguard of JAKE GUZIK, influental

Chicago hoodlum,

man" of GUZIK and then

now deceased. He. later became the "right hand

in Chicago.

"enforcement officer" of the crime syndieate

Upon GUZIK's| death in 1956, ALEX reportedly took

over GUZIK's position in the syndicate and today reputedly controls

Chicago's "Loop" and South Side.

ALEX has been questioned as a

suspect by the Chiçago PD in connection with many gangland type

crimes and 1s known to the Chicago PD as a "tough, capable of the

heavy work for the syndicate"

labor activities and gambling.

Reputed to have financial interests

in tavern, barber shop, liquor company, ranch, hotel and amusement

arcade.

Many of his hangouts known.

least three times. Employes

our bodyguara -chauffeur.

Has traveled in Europe at

bodyguard-chauffeur. Physical

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

3.:

- Bureau

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92+3182

MCT - 17

1

-

Detroit (92-324) (INFO)

1

- Los Angeles (92-177) (INFO)

2

-

New York

23 JUN 19 1958

REG 84

4 - Chicago (92-373)

OTILO DESTROYED CC ut to file

SO E MAY 24 1972

10.

3.61

per Olive: Crosp

ICCNTO4440

PROPERTY OF FBI.—-This report's loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

ба 6171-0

13/13/58 to SA LENARD A. WOLF.

This

informant has furnished

reliable information in the past

and is an associate of certain

henchmen of the subject.

T -2

Local Draft Board No. 80,

Selective Service System,

KELLY.

2319 South Wentworth Avenues.

Chicago, Illinois

I -3

CG 5733-0

4/14/44, as reviewed by SA WILLIAM M.

In 1950 to unknown agent, and on

12/27/57 to SA ROBERT J. DENEEN.

CG 5733-C is not personally acquainted

with. ALEX or his associates and

obtained this information through

contact with small-time hoodlums.

He has furnished reliable infor

mation in the past.

In 1946 to unknown agents.

T-4

Inspectors L. B. MC NALLY

and R. E. SHALLBERG,

Alcohol tax Units

Chicago, Illinois

T -

CG 5973-0

3/14/58 to SAs C. LEONARD TREVI RANUS

and WILLIAM F. ROEMER, Jr.

8/13/54 to, SA TREVIRANUS.

This informant is a friend of ALEX

and of ALEX's wife and has furnished

reliable information in the past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

-. 58 -

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

T= 6

PCT HAROLD MC ILVENY

T-7

PCI

JOHN THOMAS MC INERNEY

T- 8

Mrs.

LOUIS (LULU) LE VITUS,

828 West Cuyler

Avenue g

Chicago

(Upon request)

THOMAS MC. GANN,

2222 West Giddings Street,

Chicagos

Illinois

(Upon request)

T=10

NELS NIELSEN,

Postal Carrier, Assigned to

Evergreen Park, Illinois

Post Office

Contacted on a regular basis

since 3/25/58 by SA ROEMER.

This PCI is an elevator

operator at ALEX's residence,

4300 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, and has furnished

reliable

information in the

past.

Contacted on a regular basis

since 3/3/58 by SA ROEMER.

This PCI is an elevator

operator at ALEX's residence,

4300 North Marine Drive, and

has furnished reliable info

mation in the past.

3/5/58 to SA ROEMER.

This source is a former

employer and a friend of ALEX's.

wife.

Her reliability is

unknown but most of her info

mation has been corroborated

by other sources.

6/2/58 tó SA ROMER.

This source is an elevator

operator at ALEX's residence,

4300 North Marine Drive.

His reliability is unknown.

3/4/58 and 3/28/58 to SA.

ROEMER.

This postal carrier serves

ALEX'S

mailing address.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

=59 =

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

T-15

Mrs. THELMA PATCH,

Former Bookkeeper,

Murray

• Hill Apartments,

1300 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon request)

T-16

PCI JAMES RINI

G 6132-1

T-18

PCI ROBERT FESTENSTEIN

3/50 to unknown agents, Chicago

Office, and 5/19/58 to SAs

PAUL B. FRANKFURT and ROEMER.

Mrs. PATCH is a former bookkeeper

at the Murray Hill Apartments

where she knew EDDY VOGEL and

GUS ALEX.

Her reliability is unknown, but

some of her information has

been

confirmed by other sources.

5/1/58 to SA PAUL B. FRANKFURT.

Inis PCI is a lieutenant. of

EDDY VOGEL, an

associate of

ALEX.

He has furnished reliable

information in the past.

1/3/58 to SA WILLIAM J. MC

CORMICK.

Informant has furnished reliable

information in the past.

1/16/58 and 6/5/58 to SA ROBERT I.

BAKER.

This PCI is familiar with

activities of lesser known

hoodlums in Chicago.

Informant has furnished reliable

information in the past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 61∞

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 5

---

## Page 6

. =3

CG 92-373

I-19

PCI ROBERT THEODORE MARTINO

T-20

JOSEPH LEB OWITZ,

Midlothian

Country Club,

Midlothian, Illinois

(Upon request)

I-21

Farmer CG 5809-0

12/6/57 to SA JAMES P.

BRODERICK, and on 1/19/58

to SA JOSEPH G. SHEA.

PCI is not acquainted with

ALEX but with

lesser

hoodlums.

PCI has furnished reliable

information in the past.

5/8/46; 5/12/46: 6/7/46:

7/16/46: 8/30/46 and 9/10/46

to SAs DELBERT L. WOOD and

RALPH J. O'CONNOR.

This source has furnished

reliable information in the

pastitoop has a bookmaker in

of. Chicago and an

associate of many people on

the fringe of the syndicate in

Chicago, including JAMES M.

RAGEN, Sr.,_ TOM BOURKE,

President, Illinois Newspaper

Association; DANIEL A.

SERRITELLA, Political Leader,

Chicago Police Department

officials and others who had

apparently reliable infor

mation regarding hoodlum

activities in the Chicago area.

He is no longer active in the

bookmaking business.

3/15/56 to. SA FRANCIS J.

STEFANAK.

This source was familiar with

hoodlum activities in the

Chicago area, but is

not

believed to know ALEX personally.

He furnished reliable information

in the past.

He is no longer an

informant of this Office.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 62.00

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

T-27

Former PCI DOMINIC ABATA

T-28

POT SAM NUKES

1-29

CG 6218-6

T-30

Miss EILEEN EDGAR,

Clerk, Illinois Bell

Telephone Company,

Chicago, Illinois

2/1/56 to SA WALTER E. PETERS.

Ihis source

was not believed

to be acquainted with ALEX;

but was acquainted with

lesser hoodlums.

His

reliability is unknown.

2/26/58 to SA HAROLD D. SELI.

This source does not know.

ALEX but knows several lesser

hoodlums.

He has furnished

reliable

informatio in the

past.

3/19/58 to SA VINCENT I.

INSERRA.

This informant works in a

handbook operated in ALEX's

district on the near south

side of. Chicago by an associate

Of ALEX.

in a position to

He 18% obtain

the refore,

information by hearsay

regarding

ALEX:

He has furnished

reliable information in the

past.

3/26/58 to Investigative

Clerk JOHN E. WHALEN.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 64.0

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

T-24

Sergeant MICHAEL A:

SERRITELLA, former Chief of

olice, now

sergeant, Evergreer

Park,

Illinois

olice Department

(Upon request)

T.25

Sergeant PATRICK O'CONNOR,

Chicago Police Department,

Robbery Detail

(Deemed

advisable).

1∞26

CG 5951-0

3/5/58; 4/15/58 and 5/30/58

to SA ROEMER.

This source grew up near

ALEX on the near south

side of Chicago and now

lives two blocks from the

residence of ALEX's mother

In Evergreen Park, Illinois.

He knows ALEX well, con-

verses with him from time

to time and also knew

JAKE GUZIK and other

associates of ALEX.

His..

reliability is i known.

and most of his information

has been corroborated by

other sources.

3/12/58 to SA LENARD A.

WOLF o

This source has been an

officer on the Chicago.

Police Department for

many years.

He has

furnished reliable infor-

mation in the past.

12/27/57 to SA ROBERT J.

DENEEN.

This source does not know

ALEX but is acquainted with

several lesser hoodlums

in Chicago.

He has furnished

reliable information in the

past.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

= 65

32

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

T-31

Immigration and Naturalization

Files,

as furnished by INS

Investigator JOHN J. BURKE

T- 32

JIMMY HARAKAS,

Los Angeles PCI

12/16/57 to Investigative

Clerk FRANCIS G. KAH.

T- 33

ANTHONY GAMBINO,

Joliet Penitentiary

(prisoner)

(Upon request)

11/29/55 to SA JOHN J.

CANNY of the Los

Angeles Office.

This PCI knows

ALEX

slightly but not well.

His reliability is

unknown.

5/22/58 to SA JOHN J.

OITZINGER.

This source has been close

to numerous small time

hoodlums in the Chicago

area and the information

he furnished, contained

herein, came

directly

from an associate of

ALEX.

His reliability

is unknown.

LEADS

THE CHICAGO DIVISION

; AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS -

Will continue to conduct investigation regarding

the current activities, etcetera, of GUS ALEX in conformance

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGEEVIEWED BY BIJFK TASK FORCE

ON 10/16/95 das

= 66 =

Z RELEASE IN FUEL

• RELEASE IN PART

•• TOTAL DENIAL

NW 68262 Docld:32289238 Page 9

---

