'

| NW 68261

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10176 ennedy Assassination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 12

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Docld:32244118 Page 1


. . Date:08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10176

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE

01/01/77
PAGES 10

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
ZENNIK, PAUL A.

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 3.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
} Docid:32244118 Page 2



MI

ZEVNIK, PP. OFFICE OF THE CLERK ii

Name of Employee U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES — BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM

aan ae PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD bilitoudlaka
ae 1977 . isi

‘Address a a : YEAR :
: _—
sie ns en DATE OF APPOINTMENT ei eldl arate
¢ Number . /-(-77 CATEGORY -
: = 1.0
ee Pesition Title pa
PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE 15 jas : :
2.0 ACCRUED AVAILABLE USED BALANCE
Tavel Step oO THIS MONTH THIS MONTH THIS MONTH GY Shgst, 9
- aa] —— SE
__ DAY OF MONTH _ _ Annual.| Sick | Anqual Sick Annual | Sick Annual Sick | BE
TST sp iepr G3] T4715] To] 17 | is] 19 | 207 21 ed Leave | Leave | Leave Leave | Leave | Leave | Leave Leave
/\/ Z\7¢
sled cl a il tet | va ais ea a
Mar, / / 32 13
ae! | | AW Zz\ez
May | | J \f tT lS
ey June | ome 5 |S : 5 |.6 é Ss :
July
Aug. :
Sept. / Fd 77
Oct. i /
Nov. &
Dec. |
H 7

0.5 day annual leave : F : CERTIFIED CORRECT:

1.0 day annual leave

0.5 day sick leave :

1.0 day sick leave ao : Employee's Signature Date Chief's Signature “Date
: yee (It employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)
0.5 day administrative leave : :

n

SENGRHN
5

or l= 1.0 day administrative leave. : 7 Approved: — a pnennineeicneenennine,  n e
24 : ee Clerk of the House Date
= 0.5 day unauthorized absence : : : be
—— : ae This. record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
Ufor = 1.0 day unauthorized absence "with the request for termination, Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.
J “” =2:0.5:day leave without pay :
= 1.0 day leave without ‘pay :
EXHIBIT I
2 7
W 68261 nape

1d:32244118 Page 3 : | ‘



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION -FORM- :

(Please Use: Typewriter’ » U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (Any erasures, corrections, or changes:

i ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action: B

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)’ ~ ma F . “Effective Date
Paul A. Zevnik 6/17/77
Employee Social Security Number Z : Type of Action

DC Appointment

Employing Office or Committee C1 Salory Adjustment ‘

[Termination (At close of business on effective date)

: Assassinations

(If type of action isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete’ the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. CZ Standing Committee: Staff-[J Clerical or [-] Professional.

2.

EI

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res 465. of 952 Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

{If Employee of an Officer of the House; complete item below.)

Position. Number. If applicable, Level_._____. Step_2_

| certify. that this authorization: is not in: violation. of °5.-U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibi ng the vemployment of
relatives.

{Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

__ Chairman’

2All appointments and-salary-adjustments for‘employees“under’ the: House: Classifica

ployees;- except: thése’of the Committee on: Appropriations, the Gommittee: on-the Budget; and the-Joint Committees, must

be approved by the-Committee on House. Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code... fe

| NW 68261 ~ - _
Docld:32244118 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

i
j
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (any erasures, corrections, or changes 3
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.) nn ine {
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: i
| hereby authorize the following payroll action: |
qd
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) "Effective Date | \
Paul A. Zevnik 8/1/77 4
Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action E |

aaa > © Appointment

Employing Office or Committee EtSalary Adjustment

O Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$22,000

{If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. LJ Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [7 Professional.

2. [Hi] Special or Select Committee: Authcrity—H. Res.

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer-of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

_.|f applicable, Level_-_____. Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is: not in violation of 5° U.S.C._.3110(b), prohibiting. the employment of
relatives.

irman; Committee on House Administration

4

4

3

| |
i cl
| i
3

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees under-the House Classification Act: and-for Committee em: i

ployees, :except.-those “of ‘the Committee on Appropriations, the’ Committee: on the Bidger, and the’ Joint’ Committees, ‘must 3

be approved by the.Committee.on House Administration. .y . . 3

3

APPROVED: 4

|

4

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code A +} 4

Monthly Annuity S$... 00 foes |
/

|

. 3

|
NW 68261 : oe _
Docld:32244118 Page 5 . |


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use- Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes:

“or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authori off.) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:
i

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : ‘ Effective Date

Paul A. Zevnik 4fifl7
~_- Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

CO Appointment

Employing Office or Committee [Bl Salary Adjustment

(J Termination (At close of business on effective date)

: _ Assassinations alo

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
$46,700

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 5 o

1. L] Standing Committee: Staff—[J Clerical or] Professional. '

~2:-] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465:___of 9

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the: House, complete item below) «

Position: Number. If applicable, Level_

ad ‘Signature of Authorizing Official)

Aguis Stokes
[Type or print nome of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

«..-All:appointments.and salary adjustments:for.employees.:under. the House..Classification Act.and, for:Committee:em:
ployees, except. those of the Committee on:Appropriations,:the. Committee on. the Budget, and the Joint-Committees,- must
be approved: by. the. Committee on House Administration. oa, eae

U

APPROVED: .__

Office of Finance-use.only:
Office Code.

NW 68261 - tp _
Docld:32244118 Page 6 .

a


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. - = ae

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen) Washi

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

ington, D.C. 20515

U:S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: ~ °-

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
‘on. this form must be initialed by.the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last).

Effective Date

Paul A. Zevaik

2-1-7

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee

Select Committee on Assassinations

C Appointment
(I Salory Adjustment

1 Termination (At close of business-on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$13,530.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item be

1. [J Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or
2.

3. [1] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item

Position Number___.__--2-- If applicable,

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H.

low.)

[} Professional.

Res.

below.) os"

Congress,

Step____-:

| certify. that this. authorization -is not: in violation of. 5 “U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting: the..employment of

relatives.

ile if Member, Disiric ond Store)

» All appointments ‘and ‘salary-adjustments for.employees under. the House. Classification’ Actand- for Committee: em=
ployees, except those: of the Committee on’ Appropriations; the ‘Committee: on the: Budget, and the Joint omnis must
be approved by the Committee on-House Administration. “ :

APPRO!

VED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 68261
Docld:32244118 Page 7

Naini Bi ibid it ks i it Rata



GPO: 1975 0 - 87-255

| PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM |

" (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrsctians, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 saan ing ate) initialed. by. the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: j

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date yo4

: . Empinee cial Security Number 73777 Type of Action 4

CD Appointment

“Emproying Office or Committee O Salary Adjustment

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Committee on Assassinations

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$14,390,

2]

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1, C Standing.Committee: Staff—[ Clerical or [] Professional. be

2 Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.75-——--of ---Congress.

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______________. If applicable, Level

aoe Step________

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
‘relatives.

All-appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Monthly Annuity § 00

| Nw 68261 . jl ,
Docld:32244118 Page 8 - Copy for Initiating Office-.or Committee.



~ PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FQRM

{Please Use Typewriter
Vor Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

» US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington; D.C.:20515

‘on: this form>must:
~~ authorizing: official.)

; (Any erasures, corrections, or changes: >
at aled--by-the=

Effective Date

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

i A, Zewnis

daniary 1, 17)

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

O Salary Adjustment

ou Assassinations

o Termination {At close of ee on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary -

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate-item-below,)

1. LD Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or

] Professional.

3. [) Joint Committee.

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res...

, (If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

l> certify ~ that “this ~ authorization
relatives.

19S:

be approved by the Committee 6n House Administration:

APPROVED:

If applicable, Level__

is not in violation of 5: U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the

8 -. All appointments and-salary adjustments for employees- under'the House Classification.Act-and for-Committee em-
ployees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget,:and. the-Joint Committees, must

employment .of

Office of Finance use only: .

Office Code.

| NW 68261
Docld:32244118 Page 9



a la

\ YY

MEMORANDUM

“TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer Be \
DATE: . January 3, 1977 '

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
-to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current’
"Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
“the certification:

first cousin

fether nephew brother-in-law |

mother niece sister-in-law |

son. husband stepfather 7 | v

“daughter wife stepmother. ‘

brother p father-in-law stepbrother \
sister mother-in-law stepsister | \
uncle son-in-law half-brother I

aunt. daughter-in-law half-sister

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague ]

| I.am not related ’
————_—_+—_—_—_—— B

-Ivam related by the following relationship |

(a 1/26/1977
“Signaturéd/of Employee Date

> — EEE

| NW 68261 a
| Docld:32244118 Page 10



: AT Ae Zey NUC

PAUL A. ZEVNIK

Lionel B-22

Harvard University Born: November 2, 1950
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Ashland, Wisconsin
(617) 498-3610

EDUCATION

HARVARD LAW SCHOOL (1973-1976)
J.D. cum laude awarded June, 1976.

Upper Round Ames Moot Court Competition, Semifinalist;
Mark DeWolfe Howe Award (1974); Charles Warren
Fellowship (1974-1975); Freshman Proctor and Adviser,
Harvard College; Consultant to Professor Alan Dershowitz
(Harvard Law School) in preparing law review articles.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY (1968-1973, 1976)

A.B. magna cum laude (History) awarded June, 1972.

A.M. (American History) awarded June, 1972.
q Ph.D. (American Legal History) candidate.
Granted. Sophomore Standing upon entering Harvard College
(1968); George Dillaway Prize for "Highest Honor in
Modern History"(1972); Atlantic Monthly Writing Contest,
First Prize (1968); Harvard College Scholarships (1968-
1972); California Rhodes Scholarship Competition, Finalist

(1972); Varsity Soccer Team; Freshman Baseball Team;
Freshman Soccer Team; News Editor, Harvard Independent.

PHILLIPS EXETER ACADEMY (1965-1968)

PERTINENT WORK EXPERIENCE

Fellow at the JOINT CENTER FOR URBAN STUDIES of MIT and
. Harvard University (1976).

Instructor at HARVARD UNIVERSITY: have conceived and taught
seven separate courses in the Departments of GOVERNMENT,
HISTORY AND EXPOSITORY WRITING (1972-1976).

‘NW 68261
Docld:32244118 Page 11



Associate in the law firm of PAUL, HASTINGS & JANOFSKY,
Los Angeles, California (1975).

Assistant to the Financial Vice-President, Harvard
University: responsible for reviewing the budget
and preparing the ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT OF
HARVARD UNIVERSITY (1974).

Intern to Congressman Henry Gonzalez.

MEMBER

California Bar

. District of Columbia Bar (pending)
REFERENCES

Arthur R. Miller (Harvard Law School)
Alan Dershowitz (Harvard Law School)
Morton Horwitz (Harvard Law School)

Carl Albert (Washington, D.C.)

LANGUAGES

French, Spanish

| NW 68261
Docld:32244118 Page 12



| NW 68261

{
1

}
PAUL A. ZEVNIK

Lionel B-22

Harvard University Born: November 2, 1950
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Ashland, Wisconsin
(617) 498-3610

EDUCATION

HARVARD LAW SCHOOL (1973-1976)
J.D. cum laude awarded June, 1976.

i Upper Round Ames Moot Court Competition, Semifinalist;

J Mark DeWolfe Howe Award (1974); Charles Warren
Fellowship (1974-1975); Freshman Proctor and Adviser,
Harvard College; Consultant to Professor Alan Dershowitz
(Harvard Law School) in preparing law review articles.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY (1968-1973, 1976)
A.B. magna cum laude (History) awarded June, 1972.
A.M. (American History) awarded June, 1972.
Ph.D. (American Legal History) candidate.
Granted Sophomore Standing upon entering Harvard College
(1968); George Dillaway Prize for "Highest Honor in
Modern History"(1972); Atlantic Monthly Writing Contest,
First Prize (1968); Harvard College Scholarships (1968-
1972); California Rhodes Scholarship Competition, Finalist.

(1972); Varsity Soccer Team; Freshman Baseball Team;
Freshman Soccer Team; News Editor, Harvard Independent.

PHILLIPS EXETER ACADEMY (1965-1968)

PERTINENT WORK EXPERIENCE

Fellow at the JOINT CENTER FOR URBAN STUDIES of MIT and
Harvard University (1976).

Instructor at HARVARD UNIVERSITY: have conceived and taught
seven separate courses in the Departments of GOVERNMENT,
HISTORY AND EXPOSITORY WRITING (1972-1976).

| Docld:32244118. Page 13:


NW 68261

Associate in the law firm of PAUL, HASTINGS & JANOFSKY,
Los Angeles, California (1975).

Assistant to the Financial Vice-President, Harvard
University: responsible for reviewing the budget
and preparing the ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT OF
HARVARD UNIVERSITY (1974).

Intern to Congressman Henry Gonzalez.

MEMBER

4 California Bar

. District of Columbia Bar (pending)
REFERENCES

Arthur R. Miller (Harvard Law School)
Alan Dershowitz (Harvard Law School)
Morton Horwitz (Harvard Law School)

Carl Albert (Washington, D.C.)

LANGUAGES

French, Spanish

| Docld:32244118 Page 14


oe Zevatk
Select Committee on Assassinations

GH. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

|
| NW 68261
Docid:32244118 Page 15



(ere [232

STEEPAL TS

THIS YOUNG MAN TALKED WITH SOMEONE

YESTERDAY (HE DOESN'T REMEMBE
WHO TOLD HIM:TO DROP BY AN@TALK WITH

SOMEONE REGARDING POSS#BLE EMPLOYMENT

SINCE HE PLANS TO VEAVE WASHINGTON

ON. THURSDAY. B LEHNER SUGGESTED
THAT YOU MIGHT WANT TO TALK WITH HIM.

(He is t
(by th

dark haired young man seated
officer's desk)

het -
| Nw 68261 ete _ _
Docld:32244118 Page 16



ay °

a We yo"

~ December 20, 1976

Richard:Sprague’; .

Select Committee on Assasinations
House Annex IT

Washington, D.C.

‘Dea Mr. Sprague:

Gail Beagle suggested that I contact you concerning
employment possibilities with the Select Committee. I am
seeking a legal position on the Committee staff, and would
like very much to speak with you concerning those possibilities.
I am a Harvard Law School graduate and a member of tie bar.
Before going to law school, I was an intern with Congressman
Gonzalez. In addition, I have graduate degrees and considerable
experience (including teaching at Harvard) in modern American
history, a facet which might be of interest to the Committee.

In Washington, a reference can be provided by former
Speaker Carl Albert, who knows me well. He would be happy
to respond to a request for information concerning my
abilities.

I shall be in Washington through Friday, and lope to
see you during that time if it is in any way possible.

Sincerely,

ee ae

Paul Zevnik

|
NW 68261
Docld:32244118 Page 17

