JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-90107-10384
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-117222-250
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE: :
DATE: 07/29/1966
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
. COMMANDOS L.
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: -Seeret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — React
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE ®
COMMENTS: | MEMO

ler the John nNe Gy
iation Records Collection Act off

88a!
992 (44 USC 2107 Note), CasetkNw
0

v9.

NW 68262 Docld:32333801 Page 1

139


DB : — !
fOPTIONAL FORM:NO. 10 5010-107 .

GSA GENRES. NO. St

4 .
UNITED STATES ok exment

oe

SAC, MIAMI (105-7054) CIA iF ORMATIONS

oC IN THIS DOCUMENT, a4as yi 7

ComANDOS ~ L BY Stores bey ol 40 7

CLASSIF!

(C-L)

i DERLASSIEY ON: 22% lag
IS-CUBA . ashy” GQ C )

Re Bureau teletype to Miami, 7/24/66, and Miami
teletype to Bureau, 7/24/66, ventitled:"ANTI FIDEL CASTRO
: TIVITIES; IS-CUBA".

. Enclosed herewith are 10 copies of
t#ioned as above.

as:
4 Copies of this lhm are being disseminate
locally to the following agencies:

oa INS, Miami; State Dept. (Cuban Affairs), Miami; |
U.S. Border Patrol, Miami; 3 U.S. Customs (1-Miami) y :
(1-Region II) (1- -Key West) ; vu. 8. Coast Guard, Miami;
G-2, Ft. Mc Pherson, Geor; MISO,
Ost, Robins AFB, Georgia CTA, Miami,

Ail T-1 is est [fopurs COBAS,
MM T-2 is MM 695-S.

CIA, Miami kay
closed lhm is being classified "SECRET"
as it contains information from CIA so classified,

ori

on. July 23, 1966, Mr. STANLEY SCHACHTER, U.S.
Customs Agent, Miami, advised that agency is conduct ing
an intensive investigation concerning this matter and
is maintaining around-the-clock surveillances on boats
known to have been used the 30th of November and Comandos-L
organizations. He at Customs will maintain around-the-
clock sorrel pceesBie il after July 26, 1966,

EX-103

0 RR
N

Bureau (Enc-10) (RM)

2
1-Miami REC- 59 Goes //72 ode “dD
en i Pag or Tir" Pon!
gw’ ONI/OSI/ACSI (Reipe e” Chale A A UG 2 96g!
¥ On - Betti Hye info, r
Onsvie ae aby, . :

nd U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan -

NW 68262 Docld:32333801 Page 2
