# docid-32336907

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64578 Date: 12-14-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90135-10302

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-124

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MD

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/26/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.l

NW 64578 Docld:32336907 Page 1

---

## Page 2

C6

gif

ILS

Classified

Declassif

APPROPRIATE AGEN

ADVISED

UTING

OPTIONAL FORE NO!

TONITED

Mele

YENT

m

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

SECRET

Director, FBI (105-82298)

DATE:

4-26-61

1ael Losal Attachó, Madrid (205-432) -COANSENTIAL

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, aka

IS - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY RIZE WNPIDD

ReBulet 2-27-61 with which was furnished a copy of

San Antonio airtel of 2-17-61 and two copies of San Antonio

letterhead memorandum of the same date.

Reference also Bulet

of 3-23-61 with which was furnished a copy of San Antonio

airtel of 3-10-61 and two copies of San Antonio letterhead

memorandum of the same date.

Information supplied by the subject concerning anti

FRANCO activities as set forth in the two San Antonio letterh

memoranda of 2-17-61 and 3-10-61 has not been furnished to

Spanish and Portuguese sources because it appears that subjec

may have been withholding information with regard to anti-FR

activities or with regard to the personal activities of subj

while in Spain and Belgium.

It has been rather definitely

established that subject was in contact in Madrid in 1960 witla

Colonel RAMON, BARQUIN LOPEZ and with OSCAR ORAMAS, yet on inter-

view the subject denied any such contacts.

From the information

furnished by the Belgians to the Paris Office, it appears

rather obvious that he had a rather definite mission in con-

nection with DRIL activities in Lieges, Belgium, yet he

endeavored to pass this off as purely a casual matter] (3)

Copies of San Antonio letterhead memoranda of 2-17-61

and 3-10-61 have been furnished to the OSI here because of

OSI interest in activities affecting the stability of Spain

in light of the fact that several U. S. Air Force Bases are

located here.

CLASS

DECLAS

CARLOS BARRINAT

GONZALEZ- S

POSADA,

aka (CARLOS BARRINAT, a former member of

the Cuban

is in Madrid and is Cooperating with the Madrid Office

at the present times? Separate cases have been opened in the

Madrid Office on the individuals who accompanied the subject

into exile to the United states, with the exception of the

fishermen who handled the three

and who are of no apparent

ice: miami, Son Antonio

1552211

-124

4 - Bureau (1 - Miami,

105-2102

I - San Antonió, 105-2118)

1 - Madrid

CDA :HD

(5)

5 0 MAY 8

1961

CONFIBENT

I ON CONTATNAD

HERCEN IO UROCIO MIDD

SECRET EXCEPT NEELS SIGNA

OTHERWISE

NW 64578 Docld:32336907 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Madrid 105-432

-SECRET

political significance. By separate communications to the

San

Antonio Office through the Bureau, the San Antonio Office

is being requested to furnish photographs of<these individuals,

It same are available, inasmuch as BARRINAT has indicated

that while he on occasion has difficulty remembering names,

he never forgets a face.

Upon recgipt of the photographs,

they will be exhibited to BARRINAT°for the purpose of ascer-

taining what information he may be able to furnish concerning

the individuals, it being noted that almost without exception

and reliable.

subject rocommended them as being ants-CASTRO la sympa

Two extra copies of this letter are attached for

forwarding by the Bureau to the San Antonio and Miami Offices

for information.

P.

-SECRET

FAL

NW 64578 Docld:32336907 Page 3

---

