JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: 4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90137-10216 992 [44 USC 2107 Note] Caset Nw
4 2 12:14-20
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 105-92634-2
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 11/15/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL,
UNKNOWN SUBJECT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4 7
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO.

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32337450 Page 1


CwoNat FORM NO. 10
"5010-104

TO

SUBJECT:

Miami to points

semination.

Office.

WGF/ush
(3)

ig 1a
iF - pA ee

ie ees

cans pad Rasecelaseneed a asasees ceeseeseeeoneeretae

_ NW 64578 Docld:32337450 Page 2

DIRECTOR, FBI

oe) Te Sac, MIAME (105-3063)

‘+ UNITED STATES GO} “RNMENT

; Memoransxum

(OWN SUBJECT; :
gaan Informant in Miami
Reporting on | the Ant
~To_a_Cuban. Offica
IS - CUBA

ReBulet 10/24/60.

\\,

disseminated to ‘agencieslof Cuban Government located in
countries other than Cuba.

Florida, pile

DATE: Nay 1 5 1960
te HAS No OBJECTION TO
DECH A’ ome
RMATION
Ki [0-29-97

iN THIS DOCUMENT =

beg Suoly Sh

_soneernnsn®

area so

y AB,

: On November 7, 1960, ~ ELIo QUINTERO, Miami,
Florida, who allegedly has had contact with Cuban intelli-
gence activities in Miami area, advised that no information
has come to his attention to indicate that information con-
cerning anti-CASTRO activities from Miami is furnished to
contacts in areas other than Cuba.

Le ranean

“On November 7, 1960, PSI JOSE DE LA PAZ NOVAS,
a recently defected G-2 Agent in the United States ,advised .
that no intelligence information is sent directly from
other than Cuba.

In turn, it is then

No further action is being taken by

EX- 105
ee
REC: 98 od
12 NOV 21 1960

Inasmuch as this information is of a negative
nature, it is not set forth in form suitable for dis-

e Miami
St,

ea

Classified by 2

—

Bs

