: 1 Kennedy Assassination

fecords Collection Act of
992 (44 USC 2107 Note].
ase#:NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board ~~
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10321
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

| Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

M1 reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

I
NW 68261
| Docld:32243287 Paget



| 2

p Date:08/20/93
| Soa Page:1

| JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10321

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE
| PAGES

08/18/77
5

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box #:1.

| (R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| (NW 68261
| Docld:32243287 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF ‘REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes: 3
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on ahs forms gust be initialed Gy the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : i . Effective Date
Cliver J. Champion 8/31/78 an,
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action i
CO Appointment :
a CO Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee . - O Title Change :
fermination (At close of business.on effective date) i
CO Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending i
close of business__

(If. type of action is an. Appointment, Salary. Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary* fl

<. * Hfemployee is.a civil service annuitant (includes U.S..House of Representatives), ‘the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing offi

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 7s
1. C Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 11 Professional. 4 \

2. [X Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res._.
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(if Employee of ari Officer of the House, complete item below) =

Position Number_______--- If applicable, Level_ Step.

! certify thot this authorization is not. in violation of 5 US.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the. employment of
relatives.

Dote___feptember 24 1978

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for:Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on. Appropriations, the. Committee-on-the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must 5 \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
| Office of Finance use only: ID
| Office Code... .____._ Benefits __-_------------------
| i
| Payroll...
(Revised August 1, 1977)
Copy for Initiating: Office or Committee p x

| Nw 68261 . _ 7
Docld:32243287 Page 3 :



| NW 68261 —

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter - U:S. HOUSE OF ‘REPRESENTATIVES - (Any erasures, corrections,-or changes

: - F Hey e
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 senteieioe offal) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Gliver 2. Champion Harch 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number - Type of Action
C Appointment
/3ERSalary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
Gi Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)
- ions CO Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment; Salary Adjustment, or Title-Change, complete appropriate. information below.) “oo

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Clerical Assistant $212,880

* If employee is a ci
plus the salary recei

rvice annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should inclide the annuity received by the employee
from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the: House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. we

All appointments. and salary adjustments for employees under. the House Classification Act-and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget; and the Joint Cornmittees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

Docld:32243287 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
| (Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C, 20515 siihoring offal) initialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) + Effective Date \
Oliver J. Chaspion Decenber 1, 1977 \
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
__| & Solary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

O Termination (At close of business on effective date)

D Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business... --------- ==) )
‘Specify Bate

(If type. of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment,-or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) :

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

Clerical Assistant $17,060

* If emoloyee is.a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office. 2

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) bog
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or C1 Professional. ia
2. Bi Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.255._of 2S@%congress.

3. 0 Joint Committee. H

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_ _. Step_.

| certify. that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of - |
relatives. ee - a

(Signature of Authorizing

Louis Stokes

(ype or print name of Authorizing Official)

(ma

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees. under the House Classification Act and for Com

ployees, except those of the Committee.on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must ot \
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. d
APPROVED:._.___ po
| |
Office of Finance use only: iD |
Office Code... Benefits... j
i Monthly Annuity $__________00 asof_ Payroll______-_ !
:

NW 68261 ns _ _
| Docld:32243287 Page 5



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

s2.\(Please Use Typewriter ~ U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES “2 (Ay erasures, corrections, or changes a
| or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 ~ da an ii formes eae erste 4
| To the Clerk.of the House of Representatives:. ~~ SE 4
I hereby authorize the following payroll action: j
3

i Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : ian Roe ceed Effective Date’ : 4 \

Oliver J. Champion 8/18/77 ;

Employee Social Security Number

[ara one | Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ea O Salary Adjustment

Type of Action

Assassinations CZ Termination (At close of business.on effective date)

(IF type of action'is an Appointment or. Salary Adjustment, complete-the' following information’)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Clerical Assistant $9,500

(If Committee Employee, complete:appropriate item below.) E ? che

1. ) Standing Committee: Staff-E] Clerical or [J Professiorial. ». PO i SH :

i 2. [8] Special or Select Committee: Avthority-H. Res: 465 ___of 95th congress: -

3. [J Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Levels ___s_-. Step,

: | certify. that this - authorization’:is. notin’ -violation-of 5. U.S.C. 3110(b),- prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

(Type or print nome of Autharizing Official)

LOUIS STORRS, CHAIRMAN

{Title= if Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for'employees under the: House. Classification’Act and for Committee em-
~. » ployees, except. those. of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on. the Budget, and ‘the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
| Office Code.__________

aN int at at iad ar tN od Shad oat

tw 68261 a _ a
Docld:32243287 Page 6 : /


MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

for Allowances and

€, among other things, the Committee’ S-
ification include the relationship, if any, of
ch employee to “any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

E
R
i
ea

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
| brother i stepbrother ‘
| sister r~in-law stepsister 1; \
uncle son-in-law half-brother ; \
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister | \
| first cousin
| Pjease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date ae

this fo which will ey bec a part of your permanent personnel

uu must notify the ©

Ge I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify. )

“Date

— a
Hl

(| Nw 68261 Fon _
Docld:32243287 Page 7 .

