JFK Assassination System Date: 5/28/201
Identification Form

~ Agency Information

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10220-10449
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: —92-2918-68
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 12/11/1958
PAGES: 9 :
SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, ARRESTED, ASSOC, SEID, ALBERT, INTV, BKG,
REL, IDENT, RCK, OC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 10(a)1

Redact

08/26/1998

INDEFINITE.

INC LHM

v9
NW 68486 Docld:32298173 Page 1


STANDARD FORM NO, 64 wa

Sil spacaauisiair:

Ofc Mop . UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO +. DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2918) (92-2914) pate: 12/11/58.
— Qu) PITTSBURGH (92-228) (92-236)

t
SUBJECT: SaMUEL RANNARINO, aka.;
GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.;
AR
00: PITTSBURGH

a
e& Enclosed are the original and four copies of a letterhead
—“— memorandum containing background information. and eitizen-
Of. ship status of ALBERT SEID, FBI #574183, reputed triggerman
a for the MANNARINO organization.of New Kensington, Pa.

Copies of this memorandum have already been disseminated
locally to INS.

ALBERT SEID was interviewed at the Pittsburgh Office on
10/27/58, . by SAS RICHARD GORDON DOUCE and THOMAS G.
FORSYTH, IIL.

The source in ‘paragraph 4, Page 2, is PG 545-C contacted
by SA DOUCE.

The source in paragraph 5, Page 2, is confidential source
MIKE ZERVOS, contacted by SA DOUCE.

The source in paragraph 6, Page 2, is an informant of the
National Board. of Fire Underwirters, Miami, Florida (now
deceased), who furnished information to SA ROD GOERIZ of
the MBFU. SA GOERIZ furnished information to SA KENNETH C.
MOORE of the Miami. Office on 4/19/57.

The source in paragraph 2, Page 3, is WILLIAM CONNOLLEY,
former Allegheny County Detective, contacted by SAS JOHN S.
HUGHES and WILLIAM J, ROWE in case entitled, "LEO MOCERT ,
was, - FUGITIVE, SELECTIVE SERVICE." . yeu
The source in paragraph 3, Page 3, 1s JAMES GARROW, “
Uniontown, Pa., hoodlum and former PCI of the Pittsburgh

office, contacted by SAS HUGHES and ROWE in the MOCERI case.
a

The ‘2 6 @e,in paragraph 4, Page 3, is SLC 257, contacted
‘ents io: dhe Salt Lake cit nae Lae in Be, Ppa
vee plac pen ta SUE LY/
PM ath enprge 15 Lz

by

; Hee Gi Z 3 pet 12 1958
2 Cr etboun eas ;
ree a ce “EI oF
6 7DECL ER

~~ 2 fe

Py

FLED WN 7,7

=D COPY

= NW 68486 Docld:32298173 Page 2


PG 92-228; PG 92-236 -

SEID was interviewed by SAS HUGHES and
3/20/52 in the MOCERI case.

i Amerita Club, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SA HUGHES in the MOCERI case.

1 in the MOCERI case.

|  MANNARINO BROTHERS HAVE BEEN ARRES'

i Records of .the pittsburgh PD were review
i SA HUGHES in connection with the MOCERI ¢
i arrest of ALBERT and MILTON ZEID for arme'

The source in paragraph 2, page 5, is JAM
Chief Identification Officer, Pittsburgh

JOHN

The source in paragraph 1, Page 4, is LAC 3116, contacted
i py SAS of the Los Angeles Office in the MOCERI case.

S. PORTELLA on

i

| :

| The source in paragraph 3, Page 4, is PAUL CHILDS, professional
Pittsburgh bondsman and former PCI of the pittsburgh Office,
contacted by SA HUGHES in the MOCERI case.

ed during 1951 by
ase concerning the
a robbery of the

ES O'CONNOR, former
PD; contacted by

| The source in paragraph 3, Page 5, is JOHN DEVLIN, former
| Allegheny County Deputy Sheriff, contacted by SA HUGHES

ED IN THE PAST FOR
Al

AND DANGEROUS.

y

NW 68486 Docld:32298173 Page 3

ck
@ARRVING CONCEALED WEAPONS AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED

