JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90106-10215
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 105-117222-226
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SJ
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 12/14/1965 >
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
COMANDOS L
JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/30/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG
COMMENTS : AT, REFERRED TO USCG

fissassination Records Collection Act off

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Caset:NWw

v9.1

42

NW 68262 Docld:32333359 Page 1


r ois arans ee
a : . : i i
FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64) Oo aan I
ee eee EE f \ I :

1

|

1

. FBI |
} Date: 12/14/65 '
1

Transmit the following in Pr Ap

(Type in plaintext or code) UO, 1 ‘Ty ‘

a
Via AIRTEL ATRMATL “re "hye

(Priority) H

To: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-117222)
From: (4 sac, SAN JUAN (105-6323) (P)
SUBJECT: CeOMANDOS L

IS - CUBA
NEUTRALITY MATTERS
uf

Re Bureau airtel 11/22 captioned as above;
Bureau airtel, 11/24/65, captioned "Anti- Fidel
Castro Activities"; Miami airtel to Bureau with
enclosed letterhead memorandum captioned "Represen- ~
tacion Cubana del Exilio) (RECE)" dated 12/3/65; and .
San Juan airtel to the Bureau, 11/22/65, captioned :
"RECE". © f

s

Enclosed for the Bureau are eleven copies and for
Miami four copies of a letterhead memorandum dated and captioned
as above.

/O74-

ra

SJ 533-8, SJ 492-S, CS SJ 486-S and SOI ROBERTO
ROCA ROSILLO have been contacted regarding possible anti-CASTRO
raids being planned by Comandos L and possible other anti- ~
CASTRO groups located in Puerto nie db

s. Coast Gahal ssanyn ion, £8 me

Css ureau Bs Enc. (105- 117222),

¥) ONI, INTC, OSI, INS,

COPY FILED IN

1-109-5; ti-F ee Activities)

Lie BOY Gate Op Pg 057 D2

1-105- 705! Comandos
1-105- ney) (Contndoe oe i ivities) jo"

1-105-8280 )(RECE 7
$7San Juan 30 RES) octet bnserene teeertatllicemneee
LEte8-rabepe to: CIA/STATE/RAGL /USLE, 1 2017986) SNE

Zhe CO ae eraaaade omen

(11) By routii ox info. a imma
| Col bce Be eG ey

snl eal 6. Tig za
SIDES ov tees ep Charge Dats

DB

IRECORDE!

oi

NW 68262 Docld:32333359 Page 2


eo 8 oR!

‘83 105-6323"

In addition, HENRY FERNANDEZ SILVA, Comandos L financial
backer and registered owner of the Comandos L ship "Angelina",
as well as JULI¢ BRAVO, the captain of the "Angelina" have been
contacted and have indicated a desire to be cooperabiyer,
Both of these individuals independently contacted tnéiSan Juan)
Office on December 9, 1965, to advise the "Angelina" may haves Ff
to be moved to a new location. They indicated they planned
to place the "Angelina" in dry dock for major repairs and would
keep the San Juan Office advised concerning the activities
of the "Angelina". u ~

Portions the information corifained in enclosed
letterhead memorandum were previously submitted under the
caption of "RECE" by referenced San Juan airtel, however,for
the interest of clarity, this information is being restated
in enclosed letterhead memorandum.

The following agencies were contacted for the purpose
of effecting close liaison and to determine what action these
agencies were taking to prevent the departure of unauthorized
anti-CASTRO raiding groups from the San Juan area:

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) TYRUS E,
MINNIX, Deputy District Director, advised his office in San Juan
has received no instuctions regarding steps he should take
to prevent the departure of unauthorized anti-CASTRO rading
groups. He stated he would contact his office in Miami, Florida,
regarding the crew of the "Angelina" and would request the Miami
office of INS to obtain from the coordinator of Cuban affiirs their ac-
vice relative to the serving of prevention of departure notices
on the members of the crew of the "Angelina." He stacea that the
serving of this notice is the only action which his agency can
take to discourage unauthorized anti-CASTRO raids. He also
advised he would, in the future, take the same steps regarding
any aliens that came to his attention as possibly being involved
in plans to initiate raids against Cuba.

U. S. Coast Guard - RICHARD J. HIGHSTREET, Captain
of the Port Office, advised the Coast Guard is periodically
boarding the "Angelina" so that the crew of the "Angelina"
will be aware that the Coast Guard does not intend to allow
that boat to leave the island with arms aboard.

He advised that other than routine patrols the Coast
Guard does mt have specific plans to discourage ant i-CASTRO
raiding groups depar Juan, He stated, however, that
ney SP RARE Ade PoRsEN » however,

ON

~2~

NW 68262 Docld:32333359 Page 3


83 105-6323

on receipt of information, indicating the planned departure

of an anti-CASTRO raid from Puerto Rico, the Coast Guard

will make every effort to prevent the departure of the, eid ing
party. 0 TTT iP

ATL

U. S. Customs - JESUS M, MARTINEZ, Customs Agent
in Charge, and MANUEL F., CASANOVA, Assistant Customs Agent
in Charge, advised the interest of their agency lies in possible
violations of the Neutrality Act by the exportation of arms
or munitions from San Juan for the purpose of carrying out
acts of aggression against Cuba, In this regard, they
stated they had boarded the "Angelina" on two occasions and
had not encountered any arms or munitions. They stated that
on receipt of specific information relating to planned departures
of exiled groups from San Juan‘ the possession of arms or
munitions, their agency would cooperate in every way in the seizure
of these arms and munition. They further indicated they had
received no instructions from their headquarters in Miami, advis-
ing them to conduct any investigation relative to planned anti-
CASTRO raids.

nod.
San Juan has conducted considerable investigation
regarding the "Angelina" in connection with the attack which
took place in Havana harbor on Geéeber 14, 1965. This information
is reported under the caption of "RECE". In the future, inves-
tigation regarding this boat will be reported under the "Comandos
L" Caption.

EE SJ T-1 is RAUL FERNANDEZ SILVA, brother of HENRY,
FA mentioned above, gow :

f SJ T-2 is (PSI, UD) MARIO MUNOZ who was a member
’ of “Comandos L" until recen Ws u

LEAD:

SAN JUAN DIVISION

Will continue to follow activities of "Comandos L"
in San Juan, and will continue attempts to locate the two
small boats belonging to that group which are alleged to
be somewhere in Puerto Rico.

Gs

Ke 7

NW 68262 Docld:32333359 Page 4
