# docid-32332870

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90104-10168

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2940-45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/19/1959

31

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58252 Date: 09-22-2022

19.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by

the Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

investigation:

PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with the

GENOVESE brothers and particularly FIORE GENOVESE,

younger brother of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is

presently being utilized for the general coverage

of the Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

'MISS FRANCES PRIAM, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office,

who is well acquainted with most of pittsburgh's

top hoodlums and who was formerly employed as a

waitress in the Red Eagle Club, once known as the

Genovese Cocktail Lounge, 412 Larimer Ave., Pitts-

burgh.

She still visits

this establishment and

in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE and

other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element

in her fole as a medium-priced prostitute.

PRIAM

is presently travelling with MRS. JULIA MINTZ, widow

of. JAKEMMINTZ, CO-OWner of EZZARD CHARLES, former

World's heavyweight boxing champion.

is presently

being utilized for the coverage of the GENOVESE-

LA ROCCA-NELSON interests.

GEORGE

'MOON" MESSER, a PCI who is presently very

active in Pittsburgh numbers operations and who

was arrested during the month of August, 1958,

in connection with his operation.

MEssER IS

intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top

hoodlums and racketeers through association

with them when they began their racket careers.

He is presently being utilized for coverage of

the GENOVESE-NELSON interests and isvalsoecontributing

information regarding the VOLPE brothers who are

close associates. of GENOVESE ana LA. ROCCA.

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA, a PCI Of the Pittsburgh Office

presently engâged in racket activity in the City of

Pittsburgh who is being utilized for general coverage

of lottery and numbers operations in the Pittsburgh area.

-B-

COVER PAGE

+0 1081-10188

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

HENRY J. BARBER, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who

is part

owner of the notorious gambling establishment

it Chester, N.Va., known as Club 30, who is being

utilized for

information concerning the club anc

"the interest in it of Pittsburgh hoodlums associated

with both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

MISS MARIAN FOGEL, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office

who is being utilized for information concerning

Pittsburgh prostitution activities and as a check

on the activities of MISS FRANCES PRIAM.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now

Vice-president of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan

Department, Pittsburgh, who is being utilized for his

knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh

from which he can obtain information regarding bank.

Joans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums. : BUCK is

also familiar with the activities of

several of

Pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those of

LA ROCCA, from having worked on criminal matters

for many years in the City of Pittsburgh.

HERMAN ISRAEL, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is being utilized for information concerning

the MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, Pa., and

who is also furnishing information regarding

tieups

with the GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

WILLIAM A. DOBKIN, a confidential source of the

Pittsburgh. Office who was extremely helpful to

Pittsburgh Agents during the investigation of the

RALPH KINER extortion, investigation several years

ago and whose brother-in-law, NORMAN FARBER, is

a member of the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage,

the PCIs under development are being contacted on a

continuing and regular basis so that information obtained

from them amay be used on a day-to-day basis in connection

with spot surveillances of the establishments frequented

by the subject when he is in the Pittsburgh vicinity.

-C-i

COVER PAGE

+0 188-10888

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA.> (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will set out appropriate leads on tangible results

obtained from a mail cover placed for the month of

March, 1959, on the residence of

subject at Ingomar,

Pa.,

with the Postal Inspector at the Pittsburgh post

Office.

2) Will continue to conduct discreet surveillances of

subject whenever practicable to note pertinent contacts

made"by him.

3). Will maintain contact with the officers of the

McCandless Township Police Department and arrange for

immediate notification by them of any unusual activity

in the vicinity of the LA ROCCA residence.

4) Will maintain close liaison with HUBERT I.. TEITELBAUM,

USA, WDPA, so that any pertinent information received by

him from

during questioning

as these individuals before the federal Grand Jury on or

may be acted upon immediately. and other

offices advised as the situation permits.

5) Will regularly contact established PCIS so that

ample coverage may be afforded the LA ROCCA-GENOVESE-

NelsON interests and will, through this established

coverage, endeavor to ascertain the specific whereabouts

Of LA ROCCA since December, 1957.

6) Will check the list of toll calls made from Forest

4-5296, the home telephone of LA ROCCA, for the names

of racket associates and personal business contacts of

subject not now known to the Pittsburgh Office, and will

further identify and obtain appropriate background of

subscribers to telephone numbers called.

7) Will maintain contact with the offices of the

Patesourgh Offices of the U. S. Marshal, INS, and

Internal Revenue Service so

that any new developments

concerning their interests in this matter will be received

immediately. •

-E-

COVER PAGE

9289449-4530

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 4

---

## Page 5

. F'D-20# (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: ROBERT

Date:

File Number: PITTSBURGH 92-226

Title:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

Office: PITTSBURGH

BUREAU 92-2940

JFK Law 10(a)2

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

returned to Pittsburgh, Pa., vicinity on or

about 2/6/59 and was promptly served with four subpoenas

Dy USM, WDPA. Agreement subsequently arrivea at Dy

which two subpoenas requesting appearance of

before FGJ, SNDY, and Attorney General's Special Group

canceled so that/

may appear before FGJ at

with

national top hoodlum, on or about

J. USA,

Pittsburgh, advises representative of Attorney

General's

Special Group will be present on this occasion. Date

has not been set for appearance of subject before U. S.

Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the

Labor or Management Field. LA ROCCA advised Bureau

Agent on 3/9/59 that he could not answer questions

without approval and presence of Attorney VINCENT CASEY

but indicated he would remain in Pittsburgh area.

During conversation he lost composure when questions

posed concerning his affiliation with Mafia and

citizenship status.

Efforts being made to determine

whereabouts of LA ROCCA and GABRIEL MANNARINO during

absence from Pittsburgh. IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION

OF SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS

ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE

ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

-P-

92-8940-45

10(a)0)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It is the property of the FBl, and is a loan to your agency;

it and/or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

THOMAS A. MC QUAIDE, Identification Officer, Pittsburgh,

Pa., POliCe Department, advised on March 11, 1959, that

on

March 2, 1959, GEORGE

"MOON" MESSER, former business

associate and

close friend of LA ROCCA, appeared in Allegheny

County Court on numbers charges.

He stated that MESSER was

fined $100 and costs: on one count and $200 and costs on a

second count, bringing the total to $427:00.

HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, U. S. Attorney, Western District of

Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on March 12,

1959, that

Land

had been subpoenaed

to appear before a Federal Grand Jury

sitting atl

during the week of

and would be requested to answer questions relating to

criminal activity in

D. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

ARTHUR D. "ARCHIE" NELSON, former Pittsburgh top hoodlum

who is presently in partnership with MIKE GENOVESE, was

observed watching

; the construction of his new motel during

a surveillance by SA VOEGE on February 17, 1959. Upon

contacteRs NELSON

who was driving a white 1957 Cadillac

sedan bearing 1958 Pennsylvania license 1020J, advised that

construction is proceeding according to plan and that he

visualizes completion of the project during the first week of

August, 1959.

He said he has a six-month construction

contract with a masonry contractor named ZAMPARANA (phonetic)

from Fox Chapel, Pa, but that the contract is merely a

gentlemen's agreement with no penalty clauses attached.

He indicated that the builder submitted the lowest of

six construction bids after he and GENOVESE had advertised

in the trade

journals and had further guaranteed that he

could do the job in approximately six months, barring

personnel injuries, equipment breakdown and inclement

weather.

JFK Law 10(a)2

NELSON advised that his motel would consist of fifty-

three compact units in the shape of a "u" with the open

end facing the highway and would be of, two-level construction.

9319944457

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

He advised that on february 6,1959, however, he received

information from an attorney who has handled many matters

for both GENOVESE and LA ROCCA and whose name is VITO

RICH, that

was then at home and was awaiting

the arrival of

the U.S. Marshal to serve him with what-

ever subpoenas were outstanding against him. He stated

that he immediately proceeded tol

and served [

with two subpoenas which

he had been holding for approximately one year. He

described the first as a subpoena for the

appearance of

before the Federal Grand Jury for the I

to testify apa give evidence in

regard to an alleged violation of |

and the second as a subpoena for the appear-

ance of

before the U. S. Senate Select Committee

On Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field.

DIMEOLO could furnish no information regarding the where-

abouts of LA ROCCA during his disappearance from the

Pittsburgh area and advised that he did not think it was

his duty to ask him such a question.

He stated, however,

that LA ROCCA had promised him that

he would be available

in Pittsburgh for whatever came up in the future and was

"sick of running."

• He said LA ROCCA also advised him

that he would proceed to ValleyeRorge Academy at Wayne,

pa., on that date to visit his adopted son and indicated

that he would go by car.

HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, U. S. Attorney, Western District

o1 Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGEm March 12,

1959, that he had been visited by two attorneys representing

the Attorney General's Special Group and that they had

worked out a means whereby

would appear before a

Federal Grand Jury sitting atl

during the week

of

He stated that this appearance would

cancel two previously scheduled appearances before a

Federal Grand Jury for, the

at

which

was to appear on

He stated

that in all probability

associate,

and his close

who was successfully

JFK Law 10(a)2

13-+

472944-459801006

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 7

---

## Page 8

EK Law 10(a)2

PG 92-226

4, 195%

the western

appear

and. that either one or two representatives

Attorney General's Special Group will be present

nearing although he will ask the pertinent questions...

He said that no date has been set as far as he knows

the appearance of

Senate Labor. Rackets Committee%

TE LTELBAUM

Indicated that

Attorney for

indicated to him that

were extremely hesitant aboat appearing.in

and preferred to appear in

despite the

publicity such an appearance would/create.

said he did not know why the racketeers feared an

TEITE LBA UM

appearance in

unless they connected it with

the incarceration of their close associates, the

VALENTI brothers.

He/said that he indicated to

that 1f

invoke the Fifth Amendment

when asked questions regarding anything other than their

name and address

he would see to it that they appeared

in

regardless. of their wishes..

Surveillances Conducted Relating to

This Investigation

Spot surveillances were conducted on February 6, 9, 16,

18 and 27, 1959, and on March 5, 10 ana 13, 1959, at

900 West

Ingomar Road, Ingomar,

Pittsburgh; and at 500 North Craig St., Pittsburgh, by

SA VOEGE. Nothing of interest to this investigation,

other. than what has already been set forth, was observed

during these spot surveillances.

12242

Efforts Made to Determine Whereabouts of

LA ROCCA and Associate GABRIEL MANNARINO

During Their Absence From the Pittsburgh,

Pa.,. Area

The Baltimore Office advised on February 26, 1959, that

the following investigation was conducted in Washington

County, Ma.,. by SA ROBERT I. MC ENROE:

14

10(a) 6)

NW 68262 Docld:32332870 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

INFORMANT PAGE

PG I-1 IS H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, Pittsburgh,

Pa., Post Office, who

was contacted on March la,

1959,

by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE and who has requested

that

identity be concealed.

PG T-2 is GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a potential criminal

informant of the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted

- on February 26, 1959, by SA VOEGE.

PG T-3 is PAUL WILLIAMS, Manager of the First National

Bank of Mercer County, Farrell Office, Farrell, Pa.,

which bank is the successor of the s. J. Gully. Bank of

Farrell.

WILLIAMS was contacted by SA HOBART C. LOVETT

on February 13, 1959, and requested that his identity

be concealed.

PG I-4, 1s MISS FRANCES PRIAM, a potential criminal

informant of the Pittsburgh Office, who was contacted

on February 27, 1959, by SA VOEGE.

-24-

do104-19198

N 58262 Docid: 32332878 Pageg

---

