o2-— He toe @S

Serial Scape:

TEE 09x

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 1 : 2


® The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Selest Committee to Study Governmental Operations

With Respset ta Intelligence Activities

ENTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

f Wednesday, November 19, 1975

‘Washington, D.C.

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
| é WASHINGTON, D. C. 20008

(202) 544-6000

INW 65360 Docld:3298954:


1 “" CONTENT

2 STATEMENT OF: ; PAGE

Phone. (Area 202) 544-6000

3 Testimony of James B, Adams, Deputy Associate Dairector
FBI Intelligence Division 1738

10

11

7 a ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREINISUMCLASSIFIED 1 +
13 i DATE Brpanall
Hoel

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
ay
18
19
20

21

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003,

” 25

- NW 65360 Doclid:32989543 Page 3 q
SSsSEURSTSESESSSSUAESSESEESSSESSESSESSESSERSESSERSESsnnsESSNOSGsSSSSSSSSSES0S04550SS0S00SS0N50SS05505505059205005000509005A8 GEGESS SSGSNS 100000100000 100055100085iRE050) 5005/0 500000 500000 500000500000 500000100000 1000NS1000NS10005S0000555500"


KELLYGSH

8
8
8
@
¢
3
5
8
&
7
2
2
é

iL
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

410 First Streot, S.E,, Washington, D.C. 20003

10-

INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION
Wednesday, November 19, 1975
United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to

LLINFOR jRMATION CONTAINED :
eRe iS UY) st yaplau el : Intelligence Activities,
Dare § ;

Washington, D.C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:05 o'clock
a.em., in Room 318, Russell Senate Office Building, the
Honorable Frank Church (Chairman) presiding.

Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart (Michigan) 7
Mondale, Huddleston, Hart (Colo) Baker, Tower, Gold, Mathias and Schweiker.

Also present: Frederick A.O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel}.
ana Curtis R, Smothers, Minority Counsel.

The Chairman. The hearing will please come to order.

Our witnesses today are Mr. James B. Adams, the Deputy
Associate ee ul of the FBI, and Mr. Raymond Wannall, who
is ‘the Assistant Director in charge of the Intelligence
Division of the FBI.

Before I swear the witnesses, Senator Mondale has asked
if he might make an opening statement. And for that purpose

the Chaix: recognizes the distinguished Senator from Minnasota.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 4



gsh 2 2 1728
: 7
8
3
e = 1 Senator Mondale. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman,
§
&
g 2 I have always supported the FBI. It is clearly the finest,
7 ‘
FH = :
é é Most professional law enforcement agency in the nation and
4 probably in the world.. In apprehending robbers, foiling
5

kidnappers, catching fugitives, the FBI has an outstanding

6 record.

7 i This is based on my own #xperience with the FBI in -_
8 own state where I served as Attorney General. The vast bulk
9 ||.of its work is devoted to law enforcement and legitimate

10 || counter-espionage.

i In these fields the FBI deserves fully the admiration
12 ]| and eee which Americans traditionally held for the Bureau

13 || and its personnel. But in one area, domestic intelligence,

WARD & PAUL

14 || the FBI, in my opinion, has clearly gone astray; It now
15 ||} appears that there was Sal underworld within the FBI which
16 || took the tools, FES and zeal which was so effective
17 || against the real foreign threats and turned. them in upon some
18 || of the American people.
‘19 yesterday this Committee heard some of the most disturbing
20 || testimony that can be imagined in a free society. We heard
. 21 || evidence that for decades the institutions designed to enforce

22 || the laws and constitutions of our country itself has besn

23 || engaging in coriduct that violates the law and the Constitution.

| 25 || Justice, took justice inte its own hands by seeking to punish

24 || We heard that the FBI, which is a part of the Department of

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

It
| NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 5



Q
7)
pp
w

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10
il
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003 -

25

1729

those with unpopular ideas. We learned that the chief law
enforcement agency in the Federal government decided that it

did not need laws to investigate and suppress the peaceful

“and constitutional activities of those whom it disapproved.

We heard testimony that the FBI, to protect the country
against those it believed had totalitarian political views,
employed the tactics of totalitarian societies oer
American citizens. We heard that the FBI attempted to destroy
one of our greatest leaders in the field of civil rights, and
then replace him with someone of the FBI's choosing.

From the evidence the Committee has obtained it is
clear that the Far for decades has conducted surveillance over .
the personal and political activities of millions of Sour,
Americans. ‘Evidently, no meeting — too small, no group
too insignificant to escape their attention. It did not
fa to-matter whether the politics of these aAnericans were
legal or radical or whether the participants were well: known
or obscure. It did not matter-whether the information was
intimate and personal. The FBI created indexes, more.
commonly called enemy lists, of thot nas of Americans and
targeted many of the Americans on these lists for special
harassment. Hundreds of thousands of Americans were victims
of this surveillance program. Most of this was done in secret.
Much of it was kept from Congress and the Justice Department

and all of it from the American people. No. ene outside the

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 6



WARD & PAUL

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

11
12
13

44

15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22 |
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docid:329:

1730

PBI has ever had ah opportunity to know and appraciate the
full extent of the domestic. surveillance program that was
then béing conducted. 7... .

_ Thus we see that just as in the case of the CIA the
key issue was accountability: How we can assure that the
secret instruments of Governnoaelarelaccsuat hie to the
people, .the Congress and ‘the law.

Tt is clear that the FBI's authority for these programs
is essay non-existent. T am not persuaded that the

Secret Presidential orders of. President Roosevelt support the

Domestic Intelligence eeaeran: and even if it did, I do
not believe that any President has the authority to order the
FBI or anyone else to spy on Americans, to burgle their homes,
to wiretap ‘them, to open their mail or to blackmail then.
"one of the most igiee chine aspects of this affair is
that the FBI never paid very much attention to whether their
activities init authorized or not or whether they were legal
and constitutional. One former -senior intelligence officer
has testified that he never oncé heard a discussion about
‘legality or constitutionality. Most governments in history
have relied on some form of police power to determine what
views would prevail in theit society. However , America was
“based on the. revolutionary ‘goncept that the people should
decide what is right and what is wrong, what is acceptable

and what is not.

543 Page 7



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

Lo

iL

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

a4

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

“1731

_That is what we maant by. a free government, and our
forefathers were convinced that: it ean «exist only through the

greatest tolerance of ‘speech and opinion. They placed their
faith in the people to remain alert to on ach te on their
liberty.* ,

The foundérs of our country knew that the greatest
danger to en comes from the efforts of government to
suppress the opinions of its popelenea! They set up a
system which limited the powers a bound it in
the constraints of the law, and prohibited it from infringing:
on the rights. of psople to free ‘expression, And through
the. separation of power, the system. of ‘checks and balances,
they tried to assure’ that the Executive ae accountable
to the people though the Congress. ~

For the 200 years of our eee as a nation the
alas of Liberty has. been a constant struggle. . Whether
it has: been the Alien and Sedition Acts aed the French
Revolution, tha Red Scare and the palmer Raids of World War
I, or McCarthyism after World War: ‘II, or Army, spying during
the Vietnam War, the government has let a-fear of unorthodox
opinion lead it into the trap of infringing upon the
Constitution in the name of internal security.

The issues we confront today are a part of a continuing
drama of American democracy. It is proof, if we ever needed

it, that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 8



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

1o

11
12
13
14
15
16
1?
1s
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

_ NW 65360 Docld:32989543:Page 9 -

Revelations of.abuse of power, do not threaten domestic
security. These hearings do’ not weaken the FBI. What weakens
it is its failure Fieiee ileal to the proper role of law
enforcement. Somehow it forgot that this was its job. It
began to use its energy to spy on Americans whose only
offense was an expressing opinions that some in the FBI aid not
like. It confused talk.of violence with acts of violence,

and all too often paid more attention to the talk than to

‘the “act.

The answer, of course, is a violence justifies

eee a al not surveillancs.. Our security is not improved

“by watching those. who commit crimes. Security from violence

lies in active and vigorous law enforcement of those who
ate committing crimes. -Security fram dangerous: ideas, if
we need any security, shquld come not from the FBI but
from the merit of better ideas, in the good sense of the
American. people.
i Our liberty is pest protected’ by- scrupulous adherence
to the law and the constitution by the agencies of government.
No government ages icy likes to be. the subject of public
serutiny.. I know these have been aisticult times for the
present leadership of the FBI, many of whom were not involved
in these programs at’all.. But 48 thsy had been spending a lot
of time responding to Congressional investigations, they
could not, forget that this is the first cime in 50 years that



Q
2)
tom
x

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
“23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

‘attention from the necessity of reform.

the FBI had been subjected to public scrutiny. :
.- As painful as this-process.is, I hope the FBI itself.

would welcome the ‘opportunity to let in some fresh air and

come to grips with the problems in candor and not retreat. into

past patterns of stirring up public fears to distract our

Mr. Chairman, may I say that ‘yesterday I am told that
following our hearing the FBI responded exactly in the spirit

that I had hoped it would. If they can take this constructive

approach, I have no doubt that the FBI will benefit from

this attention. I want to see a strong FBI, an FBI strong

in law enforcement, in the detection of crime, and in the-

gathering of legal evidence: for prosecution and coriviction,

‘but an FBI without abuses..

“AS we -proceed, with these hearings today, we. should also
bear in mind the responsibility for the abuses we have

uncovered doss not rest on the FBI alone. We in. the

Congress have been derelict. ~ should not have taken until

this date for us to discharge our responsibility for
investigating FBI and other domestic intelligence.

«We should. also realize that the FBI has. been performing
a function which many Americans, oe at times the vast
majority of Americans, fe wanted to seé undertaken. When
popular opinion brands a group unAmerican and subversive

mérely because of its political views, all too often the FBI

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 10



2
8
8
8
3
3
&
 ] g
8
8
=)
2
é
é

. 10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

uM

15

16

17

18

19

-20

21

4 Washington, D.C. 20003

22

23

410 First Street,

25

24.

1734

has reponded to public expectations and from pressure from
a higher authority in government.

While this does: not excuse what happened, ig should
temper our ‘criticism of the FBI's excesses by understanding that
in large pee it was only the instrunient of our own intolerance
Indeed, I believe that is why our laws and the charter of the -
FBI must be carefully redrawn to protect the FBI's integrity

from political pressures and hysteria.

Finally, it would be a mistake to regard the abuses

of the FBI as those of evil men. The FBI has always been

composed of dedicated and hard-working public servants who
seek to do their jobs as pest they can. the lesson we learn
from this history is that we cannot keep our liberty secure.
by relying alone. on the good faith of iene with ‘great power.

As Mr. Justice Brandeis once wrote:

"Experience should teach us to bs most on guard to
protect liberty when government's purposes ae beneficient.
The greatest dangers to liberty lurk in the insidious

encroachment of men of zeal, well-meaning but without

understanding." eee eee -.

It is my hope that the FBI witnesses wée- will hear today
can enlighten us as to how it can conduct internal security
surveillance programs which do not infringe on our

constitutional liberties. I hope they can suggest iron-clad

assurances that the abuses of the past will not be repeated.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 11



|

Q
a

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
©
Bp

~ 10

11

12

13,

* WARD & PAUL

u
15
16
aly,
18
19
20
al
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

1735

We need more protection than promises of self-restraint

by men of good will.
; Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
- The Chairman. Thank you, Senator Mondale. That is
an excellent statement with which I would like to be fully
‘associated.

Senator Hart of Michigan. I would, ee Chairman, also,

except that I want to make clear my family certainly did not
support, encourage, or by its ‘vocal position give any
indication to the Seeee that they could do what they did.
I don't want to go’ too far in suggesting that what we heard
yesterday was simply responding by the Bureau to the mood
of those years.

In those years if we had’ known what you were doing,

I lay dough, most families would have said pelo it.

, ee Mondale.’ ‘That is true. I think one of the
points that we might aver to is the Houston Plan and the
‘tremendous pressure the FBI was ‘placed under to again resume
techniques that it had abandoned in 1966. There is no
question that they were getting private pressuré from higher
authority to do things. In that instance they didn't want
it.

The Chairman. Well, I-was struck with the fact that

far more restrictive than the far-reaching methods that were

NW 65360 Docid:329

189543 Page 12

the Houston Plan, as illegal as it was, was limited to techniqu

g



gsh 10

Phone (Area 202) §44-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 13

10

11

12 |

13

M4

15

16

1?

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

F the truth, the whole truth, and nothing _ the truth, so

employed by. the FBI during the years that we have reviewed in
yesterday's hearings. They led beyond anything that was
ever contained in any official document requesting fron
the President additional authority.
Now I think, Mr... Adams, Mr. Wannall, in addition to
swearing you both, if you are going to have occasion to
ask others who are with you to testify in response to certain
questions, that it would be well at’ this time to swear them
also. - -
So if that is the case,. anyone who anticipates ¢ that he
may be. poaiue aan in -this morning! s hearing in erate to
questions, if you will all stand and takes the oath at this
time. ;
d Do you and each of you Pa pructe swear that all of the

testimony that you will give in these proceedings will be

help you Goa?

Me .oAdams wi Tudo:

“Mr. Wanhall:. I>do.: > . a cLdericcirsier Wedine Guanes

"° ThefGhairmani wAfter:yesterday's hearing I. asked the staff

to’ furnish me with the statutory authority that presently exists

that could be said to relate to. the: FBI!

which was ‘of course:the subject of yesterday's hearings.
And I am furnished in response to that request

Title XVIII, ‘Section 533 of the United States Code, which

intelligence activitigs,



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

-. 10

il
12

13

WARD & PAUL *

M4
15
16
1?
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 14

reads as follows: "The Attorney General may appoint officials:
one, to detect and prosecute crimes against the United States;
two, to assisti in the protection of the person of the
President; and three, to conduct such other investigations
ragarding-official matters under the control of the eee
of Justice ana the Department of State as maybe directed by
the Attorney General.

- Now yesterday, Mr. Wannall, . were told about a series
of activities that vere undertaken by the FBI, and indeed,
initiated within the FBI, ‘the purpose of which was to harass

and. discredit Dr. Martin Luther King.

, results of any FBI

Now E am not beferring to th
investigative activity, but vather, I am refarring to these
kinds of initiatives that were undertaken for the purpose of
either harassing or embarrassing or otherwise discrediting
Mr. King himselé . :

My first question is was Dr. King, in his advocacy of

equal rights for black citizens, advocating a course of

action that in the opinion of the FBI constituted a crime?



: rf
Phone (Area 204)"544-6000

ay

Nv

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

4
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 15

_ 1738

TESTIMONY oF JAMES-B. ADAMS, DEPUTY ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR

.OF THE FBI, AND. RAYMOND WANNALL, ASSISTANT’ DIRECTOR, -.
27 EBI INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

Mr. “Adams. No, six.

The Chairman. So he was not.then thought to be engaged
in any’ criminal activity. In fact, he was preaching, as I
remeber those days, non-violence, was he not, as a‘mathod
of achieving equal rights for black citizens?

Mr. Adams. That's right, his advocacy for civil rights.

The chaizman. His advocacy of.civil rights was non-
violent ahd therefore legal in character.

Mr. Adams. That was not the basis of our invastigation
of him, ;

The Chairman. But as you have said, he-was not

engaging in any unlawful activity in connection with his

advocacy of equal rights for black citizens.

Is that correct?

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

The Chairman. Well, is it true that at ore time the
FBI undertook to discourage an American college from conferring
an HonoPay degree on Dr. King?

“Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

The Chairman. on what legal basis does the FBI have

a right to interfere,in an effort to discourage a college from



gsh 13

:

3
3
8
Ra
3

@:
8
g
8
é
:
2
g
E

~-10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

uM

16
17
18
19
20
al
22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

-Gonferring an honorary degree upon a man like Dr. Martin

) Luther King, who was not engaging in or suspected of engaging

15 |

1739

in criminal activity?
. Mr. adams. I know of no basis.

The Chairman. Why did the FBI do it?

Mr. Adams. Well, we havé to appreach two. parts, ix
my estimation, Senator Church. One, the basis pire
investigation of Martin Luther King, which was to determine
communist influence.on him,.my hands ae tied in discussing
that somewhat on the basis that: there is certain information
‘which today, from an ongoing operation is sensitive and

which, of course, we have mads known to you and certain

staff members. . ee

I would like to say on the basis that from’ our review
we feel that we initially had a basis for investigating Martin
Luther King. ;

‘Now as far as the activities which you are asking about,
the discrediting, I know of no basis for that and I will ;
not attempt to justisy it.

the ‘Chairman.. You never made a finding, did you, that
Martin Luther xing was a communist?

Mr. Adams. No, sir, we did not. We were investigating

communist influence and the possible effect on him, We

never made such a determination.

The Chairman. Very well, ‘Then there was no justificatiqn

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 16



gsh 14

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL,

4'L0 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 17

_ 10

ale
12
13
1
15
16

1?

18.

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

of I. see no statutory basis or no basis of justification for

~ 1740:

for the FBI to interfere?

.Mr, Adams. To discredit him.

ie t

The Chairman. In conferring an honorary degree upon
him...

Mr. Adams. I cannot find any justification for that.

The Chairman, Is it true Ge the FBI on. another occasion
intervened in an attempt to prevent Dr. Martin Luther King
from seeing the Pope?

Mr. Adams. I believe that is correct, sir. There ware
approximately 25 incidents, I believe, of actions taken in
this regard. I think Mr. Schwarz has those available, that

N

I would lump basically all of them into the same situation

the activity.

The Chairman. But what was the. motive, there being no
statutory basis or ee valid basis? tage was the motive
for attempting to prevent Dr. Martin Luther King .from visiting
with the Pope? ut

‘ Mr. Adams. In looking at absolute motive, I don't think
the files ‘which we have reviewed and made available to the”
tain eeee give me a clear picture of what.the motive was.

I think that there were, the motive was certainly known to

Mr. Hoover. It was. ncaa to one top official who is. no longer,

with the Bureau and maybe known to others, all of whom have

been interviewed by the Committee, Matters bearing on what



gsh 15

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

‘Tape

z as
WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

.10

11

13
uM
15
16

17

19
20
21
22
23
24

25

1741

might have been the real motive or the possible motive, I

again feel, because of reasons of privacy and delicacy, are
not a proper subject of discussion at a public hearing.

. I think we know what could have. influenced this, but
one, the primary individual, Mr. Hoover, is not with us.
Individuals who were closest to him in this effort.are not
with us. And the Committee itself has interviewed him.

So I really am not in a position to discuss this motive
issue.” : Pei a

the Chairman. Nevertheless, you would agree that
whatever the motive, it was a very improper thing to do.

Mr. Adams. I cannot find any justification, no, sir.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 18



AKELLY/smnl
t. 2

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

il

12

WARD & PAUL

13
14
15
16
ee 4
18
19
20
al
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

R4

25

1742

The Chairman. Is it true that after Dr. Martin Luther
King had been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, that an
es was sent to Dr. Martin Luther nine and to
Mrs. King, Coretta King, his wife, which was sent 34 days before
he was to receive the Nobel Peace Prize?

Mr. Adams. I do not think those dates are correct.

The Chairman. Well, it was een --

Mr. Adams. It was before!.he was to receive it. I think
34 days -- upon reconstruction by one of the members of my
staff, 34 days would have been Christmas Day, and Whether that
34 days -- :

The Chairman. It is hard to believe! that such a letter
would be written on Christmas Day.

Mr. Adams. It was Soe eeu on Christmas Day, but: 34
days -- the Nobel Peace Prize I. think. was on December 10, ‘the
letter 13, 34 days.from the date.of the. mailing of:the letter ~
as has been reconstructed, as best as possibie, would have been
Christmas pect

The Chairman. ‘Was the letter written and sent by the

FBI?

Mr. Adams. We have no information.to that effect. All -
we know is that the draft, or original, of what may have been
the letter was found in papers::of the FBI left.after a former

official departed the FBI. We know that based upon inquiries

that we have conducted and you have conducted, we know that the

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 19



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
H

10
“421
12

13

WARD & PAUL |

14
15,
16
17
18

19

a1
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

20 5

letter was not -- I mean it was in connection with other
material. So I think we can assume -~

The Chairman. Other materials which were sent.

Mr. Adams, That's right. So rt can assume that the letter
was sent. I have determined nothing from my review of the
files, and neither has your staff, to my knowledge, or has been
reported back to me which would indicate that this action was
duly recorded in any file or was a-part of any authorized
program or anything else. this is a void that I do-not think
any of us has been satisfactorily able. to resolve.

“ The Chairman. We know the letter appeared in the files. We
know that the letter was received. We know it.was associated
with other matters that were sent by the FBI to Dr. Martin
Luther King.

Mr. Adams. the letter was never in our files in the sense
that it was entered into the official files of the FBI. “tt was
among papers --

The Chairman. .It was among. papers.. :

Mr. Adams..Left. by. an. individual. who. had. departed.

The. Chairman... That individual being Mr. Sullivan?

Mr..Adams. Yes, sir. ‘ : : : jas

The Chairman. The letter read, "King, there is only one

thing left.for you to.do.. You. know what it is. You have just

34 days in which to do; -it) this vexact:number has’ béeh-sélécted

for a specific reason. It has definite practical significance.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 20



smn 3

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
a1
22
23
24

25

1744

You are done. There is but one way out for you.”

Now, if you had received such a letter, how would you have
interpreted it? What would you have thought" it meant?

Mr. Adams. I have read that statement. I have heard the
conclusions of your staff that it was a suicide urging. I can't
find any basis upon which they drew that conclusion. I think
that, approaching it from an objective standpoint, as I read it,
I don't..know..what-itimeans.

I think rather than a conclusion it should be a speculation
in 5 realm of possibilities as to what was intended, but I
cannot -- I don't understand the basis for.it. It is a
possibility, but I certainly ssi not reach such a conclusion
from my.reading.of that.statement...

The Chairman...Now,.if.you had.received.a letter.of.this
kind. and. it .had.been directed to you, if.you.were in Dr. King's
position and you read, "King, there is only one thing left
for you to do. You’.know.what:it\is. You have just 34 days in
which to do it.” Now, that happened .to. correspond to. the time
before which he was to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. What
would you think that .meant?.

Mx. Adams. I would have to consider what I was being
accused of. I would have to consider what the facts were. I

would have to consider what the intent of the person was writing

such a note, coming just before Christmas. I don't know if it

means, it is an urging to repent from something this person,

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 21



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
H

11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

a1
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

25

-20 |

1745

whoever he was, that had sent it, I have no idea what it meant.

The Chairman. It is certainly no Christmas card, is it?

Mr. Adams. It is certainly no Christmas card.

The Chairman. It reads, "You are done. There is but one
way out for you."

What does that mean?

Mr, Adams. I don't know. I don't know if it means
confession. I don't know if it means suicide, as has been raised.
I have no idea. You have the statement.. I am riot in a position
to say. I haven't interviewed anyone that was’ with him at the
time he received it.

The Chairman.. Would you disown this ‘statement and say that
any connection the FBI had with it was utterly improper and
grotesque?

Mr. Adams. I certainly would say it was improper, and I
can't justify its being prepared.or sent, yes, sir. a

Senator Mondale. Mr. Chairman, if I might just interrupt.

The Chairman. Senator Mondale. ae

Senator Mondale. What I asked yesterday of the staff was”
what Dr. King took it to mean. I have no khowledge of. what.those
who framed this letter intended, and those who were with him at
the time he read it, including Congressman Young who was one of
his assistants at the time, said that they took it to mean a

suggestion that he take his own life.

Mr. Adams. I am not in possession of that information. I

“NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 22



1746

1 |jam being put in a position, I don't know what the staff “

2 |iThey did not report back to me on their findings.

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
BI
wo

3 The Chairman. The letter ‘will speak for itself. You
4 |\personally have disowned it. : :

5 Mr. Adams. Absolutely.

6 The Chairman. As a highly improper thing for the FBI
7 |lto be connected with in any way, do you agree with that?

8 it . Mr. Adams. Yes, sir, yes, sir..

9 . The Chairman. Now, without going through the many
10 || different and specific undertakings that were intended to public;
i |ily discredit. Dr. King, because my time will not permit that and
1g | others will want to question.you on.other specific matters, I

13 || have just one further question to.put to:you..

WARD & PAUL

14 Yesterday there was a document of the FBI which suggested
15 || that in the opinion of the Bureau, .Dr..King was an unsuitable

16 || leader for the civil. rights movement, and that another mall

17 should be looked for, and indeed, another candidate was actually

18 suggested to .Mr. Hoover as one who should. be:promoted in

-19 || various ways so that he might assume the leadership of this
20 || Movement... : : ;
21 - Now, can you tell me of anything in the “law, or any other
22 || justification, given the mission of the FBI, that would entitle

23 || it to decide-who should lead political movements in this country

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24 || or to undertake to degrade a man who had fought’ and won such

25 || leadership and had the support of a great many black people in

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 23



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

, 10
a
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
Garey
18
19
20
an
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 24

-Hoover of the Bureau's surveillance of :Dr. King.

this country, and white people as well, and to substitute in ‘his
place someone of the FBI's selection or someone who stood in
the FBI's favor?

Can you think of any justification for such activity on
the part of a law enforcement agency?

Mr. Adams. I can't think of any offhand, no, sir.

The Chairman. Neither can I.

Senator Tower?

_ Senator Tower. Thank you, Mrs Chairman: =. >"

What is your.understanding, if you have any understanding

of the underlying causes of the feud between Mr. Hoover and
Dr. King?

Mx. Adams. Senator Tower, I feel if we got into any
discussion of that, I think we would have-to take into consider-|
ation certain material which I feel.should.not be disclosed
publicly, and I would respectfully ask that a question ‘of motive
of Mr. Hoover.and the spat with Mr. King should be discussed
in executive session,.if at all. fae

Senator: Tower. .-All right...

In +1965 Attorney General Katzenbach was ‘informed by Mr.

What was the Attorney General's reaction? What was his
_position once he was informed by Mr..Hoover of this surveillance
Mr. Adams. I don't recall having seen it.

Senator Tower. In other words, did the Attorney General

I>



a
5
x
‘

1 |lgive any direction to the Bureau in the matter that you know of?

2 Mr. Adams. Yes, sir. I know that, of course, on the

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

3 ||wiretapping on Martin Luther King, it was approved by the

4 ||Attorney General. I know that the President of the United States
5 |}and the Attorney General specifically discussed their concern

6 with Dr. King over:Communist influence on him. I do know there

7 |lwas concern, but I don't tie in this date, 1965.

8 Senator Tower. Do you know whether or not Mr. Hoover
9 |lever sought direct‘authorization from Mr. Katzenbach for this
_ 10 || very sensitive surveillance. of.Dr. King?
11 Mr. Adams. I don't know.. Attorney General Kennedy approve’
12 || the actual.surveillance that was instituted on Dr. King. I

13 || don't know of any correspondence between Attorney General

WARD & PAUL

14 || Katzenbach --
15 Senator Tower. Or any.personal communication between them

--16 || that would have indicated the level of the Attorney General's

17 || involvement?
18 Mr. Adams. No.
19 If my recollection.serves me.correct, as far as Attorney
- 20 || General Kennedy was concerned, .he requested.coverage.on Dr.
21 || King. The Bureau responded with a request in writing, which

22 || is our normal procedure. He declined to approve that request,

et, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

23 || and then we came back later, a few months later and requested

24 || it again, at which time he did approve. That is my recollection

25 || of that.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 25



smn 8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14

15

16

“1?

18

19

al

22

23

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

20

1749

Senator Tower, Why did the Attorney General change his
mind? Do you have any idea, or is:.that again a matter of
sensitivity?

Mr. Adams. I don't know why he actually changed his mind

from originally requesting, then declining when it was submitted
and then approving it on the second go round.

It may be in the files. If it is, I would be glad to see
what I could determine.

: Senator Tower. If you could, we would like to have that.

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

Senator Tower. Mr. Adams, you have been familiar with the
Bureau's domestic intelligence work for many years. How did
the Bureau come to. launch the COINTEL program and what in essenc
did COINTELPRO accomplish?

Mr. Adams. Well, the program as such, as I can reconstruct
from the files, was.indicated as concern over conspiratorial
efforts of certain groups, and a.decision made that perhaps

more affirmative .action.should.be.taken to neutralize violence

lwhich was becoming of more concern.to the FBI in that regard.

IE beliéve these are some of the basic considerations that went
into the launching of the .COINTELPRO.

Now, as far as the first one, which was. the Communist
Party, of course, there was the concern here to neutralize the

effectiveness of the Communist Party in the United States. In

fact, out of all of the COINTELPRO operations that were approved

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 26



smn 9

e
Fe
8
9
3
3
g

hg
8
¢.

“8
2

“8
2
=

1o

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

15

16

1?

18

19

20

21

22

23

- 24

420 Flist Street, S.E., Washington, DC! 20003

25

1750

59 percent of them were directed at the Communist Party. The
bulk of the concern initially was with the Communist Party and
it was a desire to create factionalism within the Communist
Party and try to neutralize its efforts.

The Communist Party, Congress itself, still has a determinat
tion on the record as to the threat of the Communist Party in a
statute. The Supreme Court has held that the Communist Party is
an instrument of the Soviet-Union. The Soviet Union certainly
has not relinquished its interest in the United States as im
target. All of these. considerations.went into should we do
something not only to. follow. the. activities of the Communist
Party, but should we destroy its effectiveness in the United
States.

That was the first program, I believe, that. was. initiated.

Senator Tower. Now, did the Bureau ever seek direction and]
counsel from the Attorney General on any of its COINTELPRO
efforts or specific programs?

Mr. Adams. As best as I can reconstruct; Senator, there
was no direct authority. requested .from. any Attorney General for
the initiation of these programs,.and-..it is only a question, as
your state presented yesterday, that the Attorney Generals,
Presidents, Congress, had been made available of certain aspects
of programs after the fact and those were primarily concerned
with the Communist Party and, oh, oné other organization but

not the New Left and these other types. So I cannot find any

NW 65360 “Docld:32989543 Page 27



Phone.(Area 202) 544-6000

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
22
° 23

24

410 First Streot, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003,

25

1751

evidence, and I have no reason to believe that there would be
any evidence that the Bureau initiated these programs other than
as an internal decision.

Senator Tower. Well, were reports on these programs made
to the Attorney General? Was he informed of them? Was he kept
informed on a continuing basis?

Mr. Adams. He was kept informed by letters, which again
the staff has alluded to, letters reporting certain developments}
For instance, one of them that went to one Attorney General,
reading of that letter outlined almost in complete detail Klan
activities, activities taken to disrupt the Klan. It used
terms of neutralize, disrupt. There was a clear explanation of
what we were doing against the Klan in that regard.

Senator Tower. How is it that you came to believe that you
had the authority to neutralize or disrupt these organizations
rather than proceed against them frontally through prosecuting
them for law violations?

Mx. Adams. I-.guess you would have to say, in a position
-like this, that it is just like the Smith Act of 1940, which is
designed to prevent revolutionary groups .from advocating the
overthrow of the Government, and.then subsequent -interpretations
as to the constitutionality of .it leaves us with a statute
still .on the books .that proscribes .certain re but yet the
degree of proof necessary to operate under the few remaining

areas is such that there was no Satisfactory way to proceed,

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 28



Phone (Area 202) he
a
w

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 29

;F21752

and it was an area where --

The Chairman. Will the Senator:yield at that point; please

What'you' are saying, Mr. Wannall -- Mr. Adams, excuse
me, is that you did not operate within the’ law because the
law didn't give you sufficient latitudé:. Therefore you under-
took direct action to disrupt and otherwise undermine these
organizations.

Sénator towers. Did you proceed on the assumption that
these organizations would eventually break the law, and therefore
you sought to neutralize and disrupt. them before they did?

Mr. Adams. I can't say that, sir. I think that the investi-

gations of them were based on this belief, that they might

break the law or they were breaking the law. The disruptive
activities, I can't find where we were able to relate to that.
What it boils down to is what we have gotten into a question
before on: in our review .of the situation we see men of the
FBI recognizing or having .a good faith belief that there was
immediate danger to the United States -- ul

Senator Tower. All.right, but to. repair to Senator Church's
question, you don't say that you really had ‘specific legal
authority.

Mr.#Adams. No. And this is the hangup with the whole
program, and which we are not trying to justify, that there is

some statutory basis. I would not make that effort whatsoever.

All I'm trying to do is say that at the time it was initiated,



ra
nN

Ss

en
8
3
e g :
a
g
g
€
2
2
5
2
é

- 10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15
“16
“1?

18

19
20
“pl
“22

“23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 30 * :

1753

we had men who felt--that: there was an immediate danger to the
country. They felt they had a responsibility to act and having
felt this responsibility, did act. And lthis is the whole problem
we havezat ‘the-present-time, because we do have, one, we can
see good evidence of their belief there was a threat. We had
cities being burned, we had educational institutions being
bombed. We had deaths.occurring from all of these activities.
We had a situation that. we didn't know what the end was going
to be. We never can look around the corner in intelligence
operations. We don't know if ultimately this might bring the
destruction of the country. All we know is we had an extremely
violent time. .So-I.don't find any basis in my mind to argue
with their good faith belief.they were faced with a danger.
Now, when they .move over to the second area of responsi-
bility, here is where we have the problem, and I think it is
the whole purpose of this Committee, the Attorney General,
Mr. Kelley, all of us realizing we.can't operate. in these areas
where we. feel responsibility. but. we..don't.have a mandate by
Congress. So in that area; this: feeling..of. responsibility
I. feel. came. from. the.fact.that.Presidents, as your staff said
yesterday, Presidents;,.Congressmen, the Attarney General, no
one really provided direction and guidance or instructions
don't do this. Do this, don't do that, or what are you doing
and how are you doing it.

For instance, there is some feeling on the part of some



5
Pp
w

Phone (Area 202) saa-codg
H

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

“17

18

19

20 |

21
22
23

- 24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

|of the proliferation of.these.organizations, our.informant

1754

that our whole domestic intelligence operations were secret.

The COINTELPRO operation was. I mean, I think we all agree that
this was, to be effective, they felt it should be secret. But
back in our -- this is printed appropriation testimony which :
went to the members of the Committee. It was mailed out to
newspapers, friends, anyone that was interested in it, back

in 1967*talking about Internal Security's operations, the New
Left movement, Young Socialist Alliance, Chicago trial, ee
demonstrations, student agitation, anti-war activities, the
Committee of Returned Volunteers, Communist Party; /U.S.A.>,
Progressive Party, Socialist Party, extremist organizations,
Black Panther Party. .All of these items and statements about
extremists, white extremists and hate type groups, the Republic
of New Africa, Minutemen, our coverage of subversive organiza-
tions -- there are several groups, organizations and movements
which I discussed. showed. the wide.coverage we must.maintain

to follow.on.their activitzes.and changing tactics, and in spite

coverage at.all.levels has.been.of .great. value and.assistance,

enabling us to keep abreast of. our investigative responsibilities.
This is the same.way through all of.our public appropriatio

testimony. We have: told:the world we are investigating black

| hate groups, New Left groups.

So, I merely mention this to try to.put in the frame of

reference of these men feeling, they know we are investigating

NW 65360 Doctd:32989543 Page 31



smn 14

Phone (Area 202) $44-6000

10

11

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

end 2
begin 3
17

18
19
20
a1
22
23

24

410 First Stroet, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 32

12°

1755

them. They didn't tell them, though, in sufficient detail other
than scantily before the Appropriations Committee what we were
doing to disrupt these activities, and my feeling is that the
men recognized the danger, they pointed out the danger to the
world.. They said, we are investigating these organizations and
they felt then that the comfortable climate of leave it-up to
the FBI, we should do something more, And that is what we are

looking for guidelines on, the Attorney General, Mr. Kelley,

you, that:.give.us the guidélines under which:we:shdould:.operate.

eNow, there are certain guidelines that we don’t need to

be given, we shouldn't do this. We don't have such activities
today, programs designed to disrupt and neutralize in the
domestic intelligence field. But beyond that, we need guideline
on what does the whole of Congress, representative of the people,
by passing of legislation say this is the FBI's role in
domestic intelligence..

Senator Tower. Mr. Chairman, my time has long since
expired. Gees

I would like to note that I saw Mr. Kelley on the Today
Show this morning indicating strong support for a peeeonee to
Congressional oversight, and that is a healthy attitude.

The Chairman. Well, I think it must come because, as”
you have really conceded, you shouldn't have ever had to have
had the guidelines that the Federal Government's chief law

enforcement agency ought not to disobey the law, and really, .”



{

a
3
B
Be
-

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

.10
a1
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
WW
18

‘19

“20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1756

you don't. need explicit guidelines to tell you that, or you
shouldn't *have.

Wouldn't you agree?

Mr. Adams. I would say that looking at it today, we should
have looked at it that way yesterday, but I do feel, I don't
have any doubt about the good faith of people recognizing the
danger, feeling they had a responsibility, no matter hoes fault
it was, ours internally or beéause we weren't given “the:super-
vision we should have been given, and taking what they considered
to be Bree action.

The Chairman. Senator Hart.

Senator Hart of Michigan. I should apologize both to
witnesses and my colleagues on the Committee for scrambling
around loosely, but in explanation to the witnesses, I have not
been able to give attention to the evolution of the files that
are now at hand until the last couple of days, and I am not
sure what is in the files for the public record, and what of
the materials I have been shown.in the last couplé of days since

I got back are still under. seal...So just out of memory I am

going to summarize certain activities which have been sehorietsre

that the Bureau undertook, but without being specific with: respe
to location and names, and I do it for this reason. It is
right that the Committee and the press be worried about the
treatment of a Nobel Prize winner, Dr. King. i

There are an awful lot of people who never got close to a

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 33



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
H

11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
-15
- 16

17
~ 18
_ 19

20

21

22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1757

Nobel Prize whose names are Jones and Smith, that my review

of the files show had violence done to their First Amendment
rights. And Nobel Prize winners will always get protection,
but Joe Potatoes doesn't, and this Committee should focus on
him, too.

Now, included in this COINTEL were activities like this,
anonymous letters, drafted by Bureau offices in the field, sent
to headquarters in Washington, approved, and then put~ in the
mail, intended to break up marriages, not of Dr. King but of
Mary and John Jones because one or the other was thought to be
a dissenter, might have dressed strangely or showed up at
meetings in company of others who dressed strangely; anonymous
letters to university officials and to the several newspapers
in that city to prevent university facilities from being made
available to a speaker of whom the Bureau disapproved, and it
ae not a:top flight, big name speaker.. In that case, an
anonymous letter was sent to me making protest. Being an
anonymous letter, it’ never occurred to me that it came from the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.

“The series of anonymous letters, one with the spelling
very poor, the geamnee sloppy, and another more sophisticated,
protesting the employment by. a city of a man alleging that he
was a Communist or came from a Communist family, and there are
loyal Americans out of work, what are you doing, Mayor. And

to the press, isn't this an outrage. And again‘ the letter, the

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 34



Phono (Aréa 202) 544-6000 2
ry
a

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
22
RS

24

410 Fist Street, S.E,, Washington, D.C. 20003

R25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 35

this. There are loyal Democrats in this town who need work, An

1758

lanonymous letter sent to me saying what are you going'to do |

in that case I happened to have known the man about whom the
protest was made, and the Bureau's facts were wrong as heli on
that man's loyalty. He was a loyal as you or I.

Now, yes or no, are those actions regarded now by the
Bureau as within bounds?

Mr. Adams. No, sir.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Why were-they regarded as within
bounds when they were approved by the Bureau??

Mr. Adams. Well, I think even under the guidelines of
COINTELPRO, as established, the programs were not designed for

the purpose of harrassment of an individual. The memoranda

.indicate!:they: were designed to disrupt the organizations. Some

of the turn downs were turned down on this specific wording.

This is mere harrassment.
ie The rationale would have been -- and of course, here, I
say some of these you mentioned wouldn't even appear to me to
meet the criteria of the program and should have been disavowed,
even under the existence of the program. However, in the total
context of the program activities were to be directed towards
the organization itself, but we do not do that at the present
time.
. Senator Hart of Michigan. Yes, but everything I have

summarized, rather poorly, was approved by the Bureau at the



or

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
wo

»

to
ul
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
“1?
18
19
20
al
” 22
23

” 24

ALO First Strest, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1759

time by headquarters, not by the field office agents.

Mr. Adams. I do think that there were improper actions
taken under the program, even under the program as it existed.
Mr. Kelley has so stated his recognition of that fact. The
Attorney General certairily has. yet the majority of the actions

taken, even the Department concluded were lawful and legal,

[proper investigative activities, but the --

Senator Hart of Michigan. You see, my feeling is it isn't
a question of techniques that are bad. The concept of the
program oe to Pe pS mE to the First Amendment because
everything you did sought to silence someone or threaten
somebody to silence, or deny somebody a platform, or create an
atmosphere in which people were in fact afraid to assemble.

“Now, sometimes law enforcement, legitimate law enforcement
has what we call this chilling effect, when-it is legitimate
law enforcement. Oftentimes that chilling effect is a necessary
though regretable ‘side effect. But.what I am talking about,
and what these files are full of are actions the.only purpose
of which is to chill. It isn't in pursuit of any. crime at all.
Indeed, when ai court of general jurisdiction approved the use
of that university premise for the.use.of the speaker the
Bureau had stirred:.so much controversy with. its anonymous
letters, when that .judge wrote .an order, .after the sponsoring
group went to court, what was -the Bureau's reaction from

headquarters? Investigate the judge.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 36



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

11

: 12

13

WARD & PAUL

ud
+ 15

16

17 4

“21
“22
23

24

410 First Streot, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1760

Now, that, you Enea if --

Mr. Adamsy-.I'm not familiar with that fact.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Well, neither was I until last
night.

Mr. Adams. whe instruction was to investigate the judge?

Senator Hart of Michigan. This is the kind of stuff that
I came out of the hospital to find, and it is the sort of thing,
as I said yesterday, that my children have been telling me for
years you were busy doing, and I simply didn't believe them.
And they were right and I am wrong.

Mr. Adams. Well, there were about 3200 activities, and
about 2300 I believe or.so were approved under the COINTELPRO,
and over 59 annie were addressed .to the Communist Party. That|
leaves 1000. And out.of 1000, perhaps, I don't know what the
actual .figure was of -ones.that.just-.clearly stand out as

improprietous under .thé .program, -even as it-existed at the

.time, but I do feel.that --.well, it is_-a.very difficult area.

Senator.Hart of.Michigan.. My.time.is-up, too, -I am sure,
but on this business .of.the Communist .Party, if-your theory
continues. to be that any -socially .active group of citizens
who organize, whether Women's..libbers .or.fight the bomb or
anything else; might be’a target -for infiltration by the
Communist party and therefore you can move your agents in, that
means, almost .not as.an overstatement, that any and every citizen

activity could be made the target of the kind of business that

NW 65360 Docld:32989543, Page 37



smn 19

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17

18

-19
20

21
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

“NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 38

‘ : 1761

I have just described, because every individual is apt, during
his lifetime, to engage in violence. If that is justification,
then you are justified in running tails on everybody!

Mr. Adams. Well, that was not -~-

Senator Hart .of Michigan. Everybody has got-that"privilege
and that clearly is a police state concept.

Mr. Adams, That is not our criteria.

Senator Hart of Michigan. All right, but if the criteria
is three or four of us get together and we have a sort of
nutty idea, just the kind of thing the Communists would like to
exploit, and therefore you seek to justify shutting off the
forum for that group or to surveille it, the potential for

Communist intrusion, then, if that continues to be your theory,

.then I.say you are, you are going to pursue the same wretched

road that these files show you have been pursuing before. If
that is the predicate, the.fact.that.a Soviet or Marxist or
Maoist Hottentot .is liable to think there is.an idea that we
can exploit,.then you .people.are.going..to.be.spending how many

man hours, -how many .tax dollars doing the kind of things that

.I.summarized so.briefly -here......

That in my book is the 20th.century version of what the
Founding Fathers intended to prevent’ when they wrote the First

Amendment .

What is the position of-the Bureau when’ a,Communist

may participate, associate with and promote an idea, this



smn 20

.
8
8
birt
:
5
@:
3 2
g
:
g
é

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

1 |...

15

16

1?

-18

21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C, 20003

24

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 39

19.

1762
justifies you trying to figure out’ if you can bust up a marriage
if two of the people are in the group?’

Mr. Adams. It “does not, and it is not our criteria, no
sir.
Senator Hart of Michigan. What does it justify?

. Mr. Adams. It justifies our doing nothing in the way of
COINTELPRO activities. I still feel it has a justification,
that you agree with,to investigate the Communist Party. It is
when you get into the disruptive areas where the program goes
beyond investigation that we have no statutory authority.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Well, we have been emphasizing

COINTEL. Would it justify putting tails on the people?
Mr. Adams. What, just a --. a it
. Senator Hart of Michigan. Or putting an informant into
the group.
Mr. Adams. If it is a Communist group?
Senator Hart of Michigan. .No,.if it's .me and somebody
else that thinks we oughtn't to have.something that a majority

of people think we should. We organize .and.you..people say,

-well, there is .something the Communists can take and run with.

Mr. Adams. No, sir.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Does-that justify putting a
tail on them? Het

Mr. Adams. It does not, and we would not. Before we

would even open for a preliminary inquiry, we should have an



spn 21

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

10

11

12
13
ra
15
16
17
18
19
20
al

22

+ 23

24

25

1763

indication that the Communist Party has attempted to infiltrate
or is infiltrating, in other words, where you have some evidence
ofa subversive group, participating in the functions of that
organization, ‘and there are grey areas here, in the spectrum
of anything where I am sure we have opened investigations where
we should not because there has been scant evidence of such
infiltration. And this is a supervisory problem. It is a
criteria problem. And it is also an oversight problem ‘which
we are responding to. ‘

coo Hart of Michigan. My time is up and I haven't gotten
into some of the other material.

The Chairman. Well, Senator, .you.have not been with us a

Senator Hart of Michigan. .No, ‘no, I.just --

The Chairman. If you want more time, you havea’ lot of time
stored up. If Soneineles use it now, you.go right ahead.

Senator Hart.of Michigan. Wéll let me ask the justification
for this sort of business.

I have ee talking about the things I have seen in the filles
that bear on direct, First Amendment denial, .and again, this
does not deal with the treatment of a distinguished American.
Indeed, it involves groups ‘that are generally viewed with very
sharp disapproval. The .ground rales agile the treatment should
be precisely the same, whether it is a good guy, a popular
guy, or a dirty and smelly guy. i

What was the purpose of the Bureau in trying to stir up

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 40



smn 22

3
3
3
2
z
5
@:
3
g
§
é
:
2
A
z

WARD & PAUL,

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003 -

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 41

- 10

fal
12
13
14
15

16

“19
“18

“19

20

al

22

23

24

25

| the instructions prohibited.it, and the record of turndowns of

1764

strife -- perhaps I shouldn't say what was the purpose -~- what
possible justification for the Bureau trying to sick the Black
Panthers on that outfit call the US out in California, or between
the Black Panthers and the Blackstone Rangers in Chicago? Was
it with the hope that by fomenting it they would kill each other
off? ee

Mr. Adams. Absolutely not, and I think the Committee
staff can inform you that during their review of all of these
matters they haven't come up with one instance of violence
resulting from any of these actions, and in that particular
case there was a communication in the same file which I believe
the staff had access to which showed that we did get information|
that one of these groups was going to put out a contract on one
of the, others,. and we notified the police and the individuals

of the fact that their life was in dangers

None of.our programs have.contemplated violence,, and

recommended actions.in some.instances specifically say that
we do not approve.this.action because if we take it it could
result-in.harm.to.the individual..-....

So I think this is one.charge --.and the staff did not

make such a charge, I might add, when they presented the Bre booted

put I think any inference that we were trying to result in
violence is wrong.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Let-me explain for the record



smn 23

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

_ 10

WARD & PAUL,

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

718

410 First Street, S.E,, Washington, D.C. 20003

19

20

21

“22

» 23

24

25

1765

why I reached the conclusion I did..
Mr. Adams. The wording of that memorandum --
_Senator Hart of Michigan. And why I continue to hold to

that conclusion.

On January 30th, 1969, the Bureau headquarters in Washington
approved sending an anonymous letter to the leader of the
Blackstone Rangers, Jeff Forky, which indicated that the Black
Panthers had put a contract out on his life ae a result of
conflicts between the two organizations. Now, you say that was
to= Warn him. :

I ask, wasn't the principal purpose of the letter to
encourage the Rangers to shoot some or all of the leadership
of the Panthers? Otherwise, what does this quote mean, and I
will read it,, It is from ‘a memorandum from the “Chicago office
of the Bureau asking approval to undertake this. Here is the
way it reads:: "It is believed that the above" this anonymous
tip that a contract is .out.on you, "It.is believed that -the -
above may.intensify the degree of animosity Bet een the two

groups .and occasion. Forky to.take retaliatory actions which

could disrupt -the_BPP, the Black Panthers, or lead to
reprisals against its leadership. . Consideration has. .been
given toe similar letter to the Panthers alleging a Ranger
plot against Panther leadership. However, it is not felt that
this will be productive, principally because the Panthers at

present is not believed as violence prone as the Rangers, * >

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 42
He



@

410 First Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

10°

11
12
13
ua
15
16
1?
18
19
20
a1
22
23
24

25

1766

to ‘whom violent .type activity, shooting and the like, is second
nature." ssastadstunsenadanitnabataditanishsta

Now, how. can you reach any conclusion other than a purpose
was to generate the kind of friction that would induce the
killing -- .

Mr. Adams. Well, if that purpose was for that rather than
generating factionalism, disagreements, disrupting it, it would
be contrary to the communication I referred to in the other
file, the Black Panthers versus Ellis, where we notified the
police of the contract, we notified the individuals of the
contract and took every action at our command to prevent
direct violence, and also the fact that the files showéd ‘that

we turned down these situations where violence was involved.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 43



KELLYGSH

11/19/75 :

Tape st

Phone (Area 202) 544-6

WARD & PAUL,

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

10
a
12
13
1
15
16
17

18

- 19

20

a1

22

23

24

25

1767

‘“ -'. Ssnator Hart of Michigan. Well, we have differing

views with respect to motives and the purpose of the Panther

- situation in Chicago. I ‘still do not understand why the

Panthers and this US group in California we sought to be set
as they were but finally, a again, I don't know whether it
is in the record, open or not, for what purpose other than to
occasion violence moved the Bureau to approve of forged
signatures of Communist Party personnel to letters addressed
‘to Mafia-owned businesses attacking the employment practices
of the Mafia-owned business?

Why would a Buréau, why would the Bureau think there was
any value to be served in concocting a forged letter?

Let us assume Phil Hart is a local communist in this

-city.: The Bureau forges Phil Hart's name to a racket-owned

business, notorious for using muscle, protesting that fellow's
business practices.

Now certainly it was not intended to improve the ©

employment practices.

Mr. Adams. I think if the full communication were
available, it did’ show a purpose unrelated to violence. I
don't recall the exact wording now, but I think it was to :
ereaté a lack of support or something like that.

, This was part of that Hoodwink program, I belisve, that
was oné of four actions that were involved in Hoodwink, and

I think there have been some public descriptions of that

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 44



e

Phone (Area 202)'544-6000
N

. 10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

ro
15
16
17

18

20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, .E., Washington, D.C, 20003

25

1768
‘program that indicate that it was not the greatest thing
coming down ‘the pike. Hat ,
Senator Hart of Michigan.’ Well, that is the sort of
thing I found that persuaded me to say very openly that I ao
not buy the idea that the Amsrican people ultimately are

responsible for that kind of nonsense because I am certain

‘that virtually every family in the country would have screamed

in protest no much how much they disliked Dr. King or the
Panthers or the Commitihists.

Mr. Adams. Sir ell

Senator Hart of Michigan. If they had known that tax
monsy and Federal personnel were busy, busy, busy around
the country, notwithstanding bank robberies that were going
on ‘at’ the same’ time, pounding out that kind of correspondence
and inciting that kind of conflict ena can speech.

Thank ate Mr.° Chairman.

The Chairman. Thank you very much, Senator Hart.

Senator Mondale is next.

“Senator Mondale. Mr. Adams, I realize that you were
not a part of this particular event, but being an old,
experienced FBI hand, I wonder if you could help us understand
the psychology that led to this kind of memorandum.

Mr. Adams. I feel it coming, but go ahead.

Senator Mondale. This is a memorandum to the Director.

It has béen referred to before, which calls for removing

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 45



Phone (Area 202),544-6000

10

il
12

13

WARD & PAUL

re
15

16

17

18

20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1769

King from his pedestal and ‘replacing him by someone élse,
dated January 3th; i964, which memo was written a week
‘following ‘the time ‘etiaé “King a named man of the year by
Time magazine. o : i i

This memo, as you know, received the following comment
from Mr. Hoover. E “y, am glad to see that light, though it
has .been delayed, has come to. the Domestic Intelligence

Division," and so on.

I would just quote part of the language and maybe you

| can help us understand the psychology that led to it.

The first part-of the memo says: "We havé got to remove
King from his pedestal." Then it says, tithe megeoe. willbe
left without a national leader of sufficiently compelling
* personality “eb steae it in-a proper direction. ‘This is
what could happen but need not happen if the ‘right kind of

national negro leader could at this time be gradually devéloped

- so as‘to overthrow Dr. King and be in the position to assume

the role ‘of leadership of the’ négro people when King has
been completely discredited.

eee some months r have been ‘thinking about ‘this. matter.
One ‘day I had an ever Pu to explore this from-a philosophical
and sociological standpoint with x? “n= the name of the
leader -~ "whom I have known for some years. As I previously
reported, he is a very able fellow and one on whom I can

rely. I asked him to give the matter some attention, and LE

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 46.



4
Ptione (Area 2089,544-6000

” WARD & PAUL

a
@:
g
q

Washington, 0.C. 20003

i

a

10
1
12
13
14
15
16
1
18
19
20,

al

- 22

23

1770

he knew any negro of outstanding intelligence or ability, let
me know and we would have a discussion,

"He has submitted to me’ the name of the above-named
parson.- Enclosed with this memorandum is an outline of
X's biography, which is truly remarkable, In scanning, this
biography, it.will be seen that X does have all of the
qualifications of the kind of a negro ‘I have in mind to
advance to sositions .of national leadership." : : -

And skipping: “ "I want to make it clear at once that

| I don't propose that the FBI in any way -become involved

openly as the sponsor of a negro leader to overshadow Martin
Lather King. If this thing can be set up properly without
the Bureau in any: way becoming directly involved, I-think
it would’ bé ‘not only a great help to the FBI, but, would be.
a fine thing for the country at tego

“While :I'm not specifying. at this moment, there ee
various ways in which the FBI could give this entire ea!
the proper direction and development. There are. highly placed
contacts at the FBI who it might be sore helpful to further

such a step. This can be discussed at a later date when.

.I have probed more fully into the possibilities and this

recommendation is that approval be given for me to explore
the whole matter as set forth above,". and to that Mr. Hoover
says, "I'm glad to see the light has finally come. -I have

struggled for months te gat over the fact that the communists

NW°65360 Docld:32989543 Page 47



a
Phone (Area 20ff.544-6000
wo

_ 10
ql
“42

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17

18

20
al
22
“23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

‘how at-one point in American history someone thought it was

‘King, which I dowtt “feel can be fully explored. I think that

‘that the two individuals’ involved felt very strongly that

1771

Were taking over the racial movements but our experts here
couldn't or wouldn't see it."
Now I think you testified earlier that you do not accept

this as_proper FBI activity, but can you help us understand

proper, apparently including the Director?
ied Mr. Adams. I would have to say for one thing that this

gets into the real motive of the discrediting of Martin Luther

the people most directly involved in that are not available.
because I don't know from my experience what they had in

mind in this regard.

I have no.doubt from this. memorandum and other memorandum

Martin Luther. King was a threat to the success of tha negro
movement avid that steps should be ‘taken to gat him ‘out of
that, -- what the reason = it tae oe the motivation, I’ am
just not in a position to say. ,

I; do say it is improper to inject yourself into that
type of activity, but I don't know what the real motive was.

Senator Mondale. i Dr. King was. investigated, as I
think you ee rier testified, because of fears of communist
influence upon beim? i

Mr. Adams, Yes.

‘Senator Mondale, Is that a proper basis for investigating

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 48



: a
Phone (Area 2027'544-6000
a
my

10
il
12

13,

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17

18

w
©

20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

| NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 49

‘Dr. King or anyone’ else?

- Mr. Adams. It is where you have information indicating

that the Commmist! Party is ahd has made efforts to try

to influence an individual.

I would say that that would normally bs considered
within the current criteria.
ue Senator Mondale. . You would consider that to be a
valid Buppee tear! investigating today? a
Mr. Adams. Excuse me, what?’

Senator Mondale. You would consider that to bea

valid basis for investigating today?
‘Mr. Adams. The movement itself, but not the individual.

Senator Mondale. How do you,investigate a movement

- without investigating individuals?

Mr. Adams, You do get into a gray area. the main thing
would be it we had an organization today that we saw the .
Communist Party gravitating to, trying to work in. positions
of leadership, we would be interested_in opening an investigation

on Communist infiltration of “that organization to see if

-it was affacting it.

Senator Mondale. All right, now ‘let's go back’
specifically. :
I gather there never was any question raised about
whether Dr. King was a Communist. That.was Hsu charged.

Mr. Adams, Not as a Communist Party member, no, sir.



Phone (Area 203) 544-6000
x

_ 10

11
“42

13

WARD & PAUL,

M

15

16
i

18

20

21

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

22

1773

Senator Mondale. That's right. or cae he was about to
or had committed acts of violence?
--Mr. Adams. Nol” -

Senator Mondale. But the xéason for investigating him
apparently was that he was subject to Communist influence,

Now what makes that a justified reason for investigating
him? Is it a crime to be approached by someone who is a
Communist? a ae

Mr. Adams . Noo7 :

Senator Mondale. What is the legal basis for that
investigation? : :

Mr. Adams. The basis would be the Communist influence.
on him and the effect it would have’on the organization. It
would be in connection with our basic investigation of the-
Communist Party. :

Senator Mondale. Well, as I understand the law to
read, itis not 4 crime to he a mamber ‘of a Communist Party.
Mr. Adams. That is correct. ;

Senator Mondale. How can it be a crime to know someone
who is a member of the Communist Party?

Mr. Adams.; zt is not. a tees

Senator Mondale. How do you investigate something as
‘kenuous as that? What is the basis for it legally?

Mr, Adams. Well, it falls into the area of, one, the

intelligence jurisdiction of the activities of the Communist

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 50



NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 51

a
Phone (Area 202),544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

10
uu
12
13
14
15
16
17

18

20
21

22

23°

24 |

25

1774

‘Party to have a situation where an individual in an organization,

a leader of an organization, efforts are being made to

| influence him and to achieve’ control over the organization,

and it is part of the overall investigation of the Party
trying to exert this influence as to are they successful,

are they taking over the black movement or the civil rights

* Movement. ~

It is just like we tried to make clear in investigations
that were more prevalent years ago but still occur on the
Communist’ influence in labor unions. We tried to tell every-

body we interview we are not interested in labor matters. We

axe not trying to inquire: into that. We are interested in

the effect of the Communist Party on this union.

Senator Mondale. Mr. Adams, I am trying to get at the
legal basis in this particular casé in investigating Dr.
King on the grounds. that he might be subject to Communist
influence.

_Can_you cite any legal basis for that or is it based

entirely upon a generalized authority thought to exist in

the FBI to investigate "internal security matters"?

Mr. Adams, It would fall also in the Presidential
directives of investigating subversive activities.

Senator Mondale. And than the question would return *
to what authority the President had.

Mr. Adams. That's right.



:

ry
a

Phone (Area 20247544-6000
©
H

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

u
15
16

17

18.

“19
20
21
22

23

e

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

177

Senator Mondale. Now Dr, King was investigated among
other things for matters of, I think you call it delicacy.

- Would that be a basis for investigating an American
citizen by the FBI?

Mr. Adams. No. -

Senator Mondale. Would you say then that those
investigations were improper? ,

Mr. Adan. -I don't believe that there is an allegation
that we investigated him for that. I think there were
certain by-products of information that developed and I think
at a point you had a situation where the tail was wagging
the dog, perhaps, but I don't gaa any basis ‘for such investi-
gation. and I find it very difficult to get into a discussion
of this in’ view of the prohibitions that I think --

seer Mondale. You answered my eeeioas That for
itself would not be a basis for investigation.

“Mr. Adams. Wo, sir.

Senator Mondale. “Would _you agree with me, Mr. Adams,
that this whole’ ean generalized area of the assignment
that the FBI has been tasked, which they thought they possessed}.
or could use to investigate Americans, not where there were
allegations, of crime or suspicion, that erimes were about to
be committed, or that Wiolsncel wae about to be committed,
but rather this whole ria pee investigate

Americans in terms of ideas that they have or might be persuade

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 52



(oy
Phone (Area 202} 544-6000
ry
Oo
BP

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

uM
15

16

17 |

18

19

al
22

23

420 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003"

24

25

20 |

1776

to have that might hold potential for danger to this country
is an exceedingly vague, difficult, Lf not impossible to
define aréa and an area’ which has got the FBI into an awful
lot of trouble, including today's hearings.

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

Senator Mondale. And because of that there is a very
inportant need aa down and redefine it,, have the guidelines
known specifically by all sq that the FBI can.know precisely
what it can do and what it cannot do.

Mr. Adams. I think this is why the. country is fortunate
in this particular time. to have an Attorney General who is
a legal scholar and a lawyer of See ed repute who
has indicated a willingness to address these problems, which
as the staff has. determined, was not always the: case over ,
the years. But we have an Attorney General, we have a
Director, who has offered his complete cooperation, just as
he has to the Committee in this gases that oe not
cere aleeereye embarrassment « ‘The only thing we are trying
to hold back are identities of informants’ and Sensitive,
ongoing operations that we haves concern on the part of
Congress that not only recognizes. there have been ae
but recognizes that there still always has to be some degree
of flexibility.

: We are going to have situations where you have a

Weatherman working for’ the water works, and in college he was.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 53 #



@

Phone (Area 20%f.544-6000
BH
B
H

End Tape

2

©.

10
11
12

“13

* WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.., Washington, D.C. 20003.

that is: going to bring the.attention of the world on this

| ‘city.

a scientific student, and he makes a comment to a fellow

eniployee that there is going to be some spectacular event

Senator Mondals.. Wouldn't you have probable cause then

to investigate the commission of a erime?

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 54



AKELLY/smn1
5

ts

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000¢

10
11
12

13:

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
1”

19

“R21
- 22

“23

410 Flist Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25 |

Nw 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 55

- 20-4

1778

- Mr. Adams. We might have to investigate, but to disrupt,
we have the authority. to tell the supervisor of the waterworks,
you had better get him out of there before the city water is
poisoned and 100,000 people die, and I think the Committee is
going to find the same problems we do in coping with that
situation, and even the Attorney General in his speech in Ottawa
pointed out that there is still possibly a necessity for some
flexibility to take appropriate action under extreme conditions.
But it should be controlled. It is like Mr. Kelley says, go

to the Attorney General, explore the legal issues, lay the
problem up there. Tt should not be handled internally in the
FBI. :

Senator Mondale. But do you also agree that the Congress

ought to redefine the rules legislatively?

Mr. Adams. Yes, because the problem -I have with it is
we talk about oversight, and Mr. Kelley and the Attorney Genera.
and I believe this Committee. agree.that we should have Joint
oversight which would avoid the.proliferation of -hearings
and the sensitive knowledge mong ‘many people which always
poses that inadvertent leak .of information. But -yet even with
oversight, under the plan you discussed .yesterday, or some of
the .observations that were discused yesterday; having people,
conservative,. liberal, black, and the other qualifications you
put in, can a Committee speak for the will of Congress? At

one time we had Congressmen making speeches all over the .



Phone (Area 202) 44-6000
wn

10-

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
ly
“18
“19
- 20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C, 20003

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Pa

1779

country, if we don't stop these bombings, if somebody doesn't
|do something about it this country is in trouble. Is that the
will of Congress? a : aay

Until it is embodied in legislation where the whole will
of Congress is expressed, we are going to have problems.

Senator Mondale. I am glad to hear that, because there is
a way Congress ‘speaks. It is not through the buddy system or
a person, It speaks through the law.

Mr. Adams. That's right.

Senator Mondale. ‘And now we have for thé first time this
whole issue, it~is not denied by the FBI. The elements are
known. What I hear you saying is you would like the Congress
now to define and redefine specifically and carefully what it
is we expect the FBI to do, and what it is we wish the FBI and
will prohibit the FBI from doing.

Mr. Adams. Right. What is-our.role in society?

After World War II, if you'll remember, a Congressional
’ Committee ‘met and raised-all sorts of storm.over the fact that
there was not enough -in.the way of intelligence. investigations.
Never again should -it. happen in the Unitea States that we be
caught with our .pants down paisiai

After the Kennedy assassination, if you recall, the FBI
was properly criticized for having too restrictive dissemination
policies in connection with Secret Service because they depend

upon us for the intelligence necessary to provide protection.



8
8

3

i

5

g

g
@:
§

€

Py

2

5

é

_ 10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

“14
16
"16
1”
18
ag
20

a1

+» Washington, D.C. 20003

22

23

410 First Street, S.

R24

25

1780

for the President against.extremist.groups.. We did.that but

just before ‘the recent incidents in California there was going
to be Committee concern, not this Committee, over has enepe
been too much dissemination.

So the FBI is in the position of at different times in our
history being damned for doing too much and damned for doing
too little. And it is because of reacting to what we try to
judge is what they want us to do, and this is what we are not
in a position to do. We need the will of Congress expressed in
some definitive par ree yet providing the latitude, because as
You have seen Exrom these problems, there are many that there is
no black and white answer to. There have to be occasions
where when you are confronted with an.extreme emergency, someone
can a and I don't. think you or evone else wants to tie the
hands of law enforcement when today we have over'10-million
serious crimes in the United states.. Wei have .1.million erimes
a year involving violence, and there has to be a capability to
react. But we need.to know in better terms what is our role
in this, Teale domestic intelligence,

Senator Mondale. . Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Senator Tower (presiding). Senator Schweiker.

Senator Schweiker. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Adams, in 1966 a letter written by the Bureau to.

Marvin Watson, Special Assistant to the President at the White

House, and the gist of this letter was, in reference to his

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 57



Phono (Area 202) 544-6000
wo

“Lo

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18

19

21

4 Washington, B.C, 20003

22

23

410 First Street, s.

24

25

20°

.at the President's directions, Mr. Hoover reported more

1781

request, and I want’to make it ‘clear it was his request, not

| the Bureau! Ss, authors of-books that were critical of the Warren
Commission Report, the assassination of President Kennedy, were
on to file Bara pertinent personal data information,
dossiers, etc., on seven individuals whose names I will not

discuss. :

-Do you have any knowledge as to why the White House request
this kind of material on the Warren Commission critics?

Mr. Adams. I don't recall. I am familiar with the materia
I did review it--some time ago when we were testifying before
the House Committee in February, but I don't recall that I saw
in there any specific motivation on the part of the White House
group requesting this information.

Senator Schweiker. Now, in the same letter it also says
a copy of ‘this communication has not been sent to the Acting

Attorney General.

"Mr. Adams. Yes.

Senator. Schweiker. Number one, is that a normal procedure
when you get requests of this kind that the Acting Attorney
General is bypassed, and why was the Attorney General bypassed
in this instance?

Mr.. Adams. This is not a normal procedure. It is not

the procedure followed today. There was a period of time where,

directly to him in certain areas, and it was apparently a

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 58

ae



smn 5

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

“4
1s

- 16

17

18
"ag
20

21

22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 secunese Page 59

-things. —.. aa

1782

feeling that he did not want the Attorney General to know certair

Senator Schweiker. One of the dossiers specifically in-
cluded photographs of sexual activities.

Mr. Adams. Yes,-sir.

Senator Schweiker. And my question is, how is that relevant
to-being a critic of the Warren Commission?

What standard do we use when we just pass photographs of
sexual activities to the White House? Is this a normal -- again,
is this a normal proceeding when a dossier is requested? Is thi
included, did they specifically request photographs of this
kind, or what light can you shed on this?

Mr. Adams. I can't shed much.~ I know they requested
information on him. I think. there was other material concerning}
that individual of a security nature that was included. Why
the information in that respect was submitted I am unable to
answer. ’ a

I do know at the time there was a lot.of concern following
the Warren Commission Report, had all the answers been explored,
was the Soviet Union involved, was Cuba involved, ‘and who were
the critics who now are attacking this. But t have seen
nothing which would explain the rationale for requesting the
material.

‘Senator Schweiker. I think what concerns us on the Committee

is that-whenever you get to the nitty gritty of investigations,



smn 6

1783

1 and it doesn't have to relate to the Warren Commission, I will

leave that alone, or to some activity we are involved in, we

3 || get back to something like that, where a photograph or a tape

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
w

4 recording or some letter referring to some kind of human weakness
5 |] or failing that is really very irrelevant to the investigation
6 is sandwiched in here, and it just seems to me that it was a
y tactic -- this just happens to be the Warren Commission I
8 singled out -- but it was a tactic that was used rather
9 frequently as a lever or for some reason which I am trying to
10 || find out as an instrument of investigative. policy.
o 11 Would you differ with that or dispute that, or again,
12 what rationale? Do wé use sexual activities as a standard

13 criterion for investigations?

WARD & PAUL,

14 | Mr. Adams. We do not use sexual activities as a criterion,
15 |} but during the course of our investigation -- we did have an
16 investigation on that individual at one time -- and during

17 the course. of the investigation, in checking the records of a

local police department or.a district. attorney's office, they

"18

3 : 19 had conducted an investigation for a. eriminal act involving Sh

é 20 photograbhs, and. they made that available to us.

g .

i 21 -So it went into our files.

i 22 Now, the request of the Sreviaene: he is the Chief

i 23 “Executive of the United States. He in effect has custody of
e. 24 everything. There are problems involved when the man who is

3 .

25 | in charge of everything requests information. I would like

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 60



mn 7

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000)

or

+10

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

M4
15
16
“49

18

20
21
22

23

410 First Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 61

that I_don' t acd of any such requests coming over to the FBI

1784
to add, however, that following the cleansing effect of Watergate

anymore. aa
There is a direct line between the Attorney General and
the Director, and the Director certainly recognizes that ina
case of extreme pretest he would have the alternative to
tell the Attorney General, I need to go directly to the President,
or feel I should, but we do not have this line of communication
at the present time. 7
Senator Schweiker. Well, it-seems to me if they had just
listed the.other. investigation and listed what was alleged
in the other investigation, that certainly would have sufficed
for whatever purpose it-would have. _ But it seemsi:to me when |
you in fact enclose living photographs, you are really getting
very much, to my way of thinking, towards attempting to.
discredit their critics. What other purpose. would a photograph
have of Lard nature. other than to discredit critics because
they will not quarrel with listing whatever was charged in

another state. That may well have been included. I cannot

argue that.

Mr. Adams. z can't answer that.

Senator Schweiker. One area that I think this gets to
which we really touched on in the assassination probe quite a
bit, Mr. Adams, is where the Bureau stops when they get some

of these requests, in other words, what kind of criteria, if



smn 8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Strost, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 62

25

11

12
13
4
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

1785
any. You touched on it a moment ago. The President asked for
something. I don't know-in this case whether the President
asked to see photographs of this nature or didn't ask, but the
point is, nobody said no and he got them.

So the Geeeeica is, where do you see the Bureau's responsi-
bility here, and what can this Committee do to ensure that
there is some kind of a test that we either put in the law
or that the FBI invokes, or that we invoke on the White House
in using police power in this way?

Mr. Adams. I don"t think Congress can ever fill the |
responsibility of _trying--to-draw up guidelines, even in conjunc
tion with the Executive Branch, to guarantee that all abuses
won't take place. The organizationis made up of human beings,
and these things occur.

Certain corrective actions are self-initiated, such as
this. The President, for instance, you.know we had an incident

a few years ago about investigating.a newsman, where we were

requested, and if I recall from our.information, we thought he

was being considered for an appointed position which would have
been a logical basis. As facts turned out, that-was not the
purpose that the information was requested.

To stem or stop abuses like that, the President, the
current Administration has issued instructions that any request:

for investigations under the special inquiry or White House

investigation such as for appointment must clear through the



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
vo

‘10

12

13

WARD & PAUL

uM
15
16
17
18
19
ne 1¢)
21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C, 20003

24

25

1786

office of his counsel, in other words, not let the lower line
people. come over and say we need this information or we need
this request. They come through the office of Phil Buchen_
through an employee that is assigned to that office with
responsibility. ~

Now, we do still make certain name check: requests for the
White. House, and those, too, have to eee through his office.
So we do have that. Then we have the responsibility, if we
get something which on its’ face appears political’*or improper,
then our responsibility under that would be to go to the
Attorney General and ask -him-to-intercede by finding out is
this a proper request on the Bureau. And I can assure you that
as Mr. Kelley has testified and has _made it perfectly clear
that he has not had any such improper requests and he would
go right to the Attorney General if it was necessary. Othierwisd
he would reject the request.

Senator Schweiker. What steps are we taking, under your
jurisdiction comes whatever internal investigation unit the
FBI has. I.just wondered very briefly, because .I know my
time is very limited, we have.a vote ‘on, what steps are you
taking to make sure that we catch some of these things in the
present that maybe we either overlooked or did not catch or
somehow got sidetracked in the cose

Mr. Adams. We have been working with the Attorney General

and his staff. It started even when Attorney General Saxbe

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 63



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000¢q

_ 10

il

12

WARD & PAUL
i
w

u
16
16
1?

18

20

al

22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1787

was there, to’ look at all of our procedures, all of our
-investigative operations: are they proper, do they fit
eriteria, do we have a’legal basis for them, and we have guide-
lines, committees which have been established in the Department
that meet every day on questions of what is. even an overwhelming
problem of collection and maintenance of information. What

do we get, why do we get it, what should we do with it.

-I feel there is a very active program going on in that
regard, and I feel certain that it will continue to make sure
that we are aware of everything and take ‘appropriate action.

“- Sénator Schweiker.. I wonder if.you might share some of
these with .the staff so that we can have an advantage of taking
a look at those, too. I am glad to’see this being made.

Mr. Adams.’ I would have to secure--the approval of the
Attorney General on the guidelines. He did tell the House
Committee which originally raised the question on maintenance of
information, that once we get something and they are nearing
completion in the Department, that he does intend to take it
up with Congress. So I am sure there would be no problem at
that point in bringing it to this Committee.as well. :

Senator Schweiker. Because it.seems to me this is where
the problems in the past have arisen, in not having clearly
defined or maybe if you measure it -~ you can measure it in
terms of today's standards versus standards of before, but I

think this is the crux of it.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 64



smn 11

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
wo

12

13

WARD & PAUL

uM
15

16

17.

18

20
al

22

2
3
8
3
g
g
8
€
g
3
4
5
3
a
4

23

25

24

1788
Mr. Adams. That is true.

_ Senator Schwéiker. ‘That's all I have, Mr. Chairman.

Senator Tower. Mr. Adams, what use does the Bureau presently
make of its intelligence informants, and have they ever been
used as provocateurs or as magnets for action?

Mr. Adams. No, sir.

_' Well, you asked two questions.
Senator Tower. Yes.
Mr. Adams. Let me take :the last one first, provocateurs.

Our policy has not -- or our policy “has been to discourage any

activities: which in any-way-might involve an informant doing
something that - an agent cannot do, which would be in the area
of being-a provocateur, which basically is entrapment. And
we have had some allegations of entrapment come up. We feel
we have satisfactorily answered them. This is a very technical
legal field which boils down, of course, to the fact that if a
person is willing to do something, and the government merely
provides. the opportunity, that is not legally entrapment. So
ifa person comes to us. and says.I have been asked to participate
in a breakin of a Federal building, r would like to help you,
then the law basically would indicate we have the authority
to continue to let him operate.

The question comes up if he assumes the whole direction
and causes people to do something which they would not otherwise

have done. That is the entrapment issue. So we are very alert

Ff NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 65



smn 12

8
8
8
if
3
&
@:
8
§ 2
$
g
5
-€

“10

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
“21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

R4

25

| NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 66

Some of them are high school students, some of them are

. broadcasters and journalists, people whose names would be almost

~ |
1789

to this. We have instructions, .clear guidelines; instructions
to our field offices that they are not to use an informant for
anything that an agent’ cannot legally do. I don't say there
haven't been some mistakes in that regard, but I don't know of
any at the present time. :

‘Senator Tower. Senator Huddleston?

Senator Huddleston. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

.First I think to keep this activity in proper perspective
it might be well to remember that even though a great deal of
the testimony and the questioning has been relating to the

situation. Dr. King's case is indeed a classic example utilizing

all of the various techniques of the Bureau. in both intelligence
gathering an action against an individual in order to dis- -
credit him or embarrass him,-or indeed destroy him.

But the record is replete, and indeed, hey an entire

sheaf of similar targets who are certainly not as well known.
high school teachers, college students, college teachers,

totally.unfamiliar. to. the. vast.majority.of.Americans, So the
activity was not.confined.to those that are immediately
recognizable who were indeed public-figures.

I want to just proceed along the question of informants

that Senator Tower just raised for just a moment or two.



10

12

WARD & PAUL

13
14
15
16
17

“18

b
ie)

20

al

22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

\ NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 67

to him.

1790
You say that your informants are not expected to do anything
that an agent himself could not do, but in the gathering of the
information for which you are securing him in the first place,
do you have any safeguard at all, or any rule as to how he
proceeds in order to gather the information you are looking
for? i
_.. Mr. Adams. Only that he proceed through legal means.
Senator Huddleston. Is that specifically stated to him
when. he is employed? . .-

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

Senator Huddleston. Are most informers paid on the
pasis of ee fee or regular salary, or are they paid
on the basis of the information they gather?

Mr. Adams. Even those who are paid on what you could say
a salary, that salary is determined on a COD Bead as to the
value of the information furnished.. In other words, in the
criminal case, for instance, you Lae have a person come in and

give you the identity of.three individuals who just robbed a

bank. You might pay him a lump sum amount, and never go back

In the security field where informants do finally manage
to work into a revolutionary type organization, their
continued activities in our behalf do set..up more of a program

for payment.

Senator Huddleston. Do you check on occasion on the basis



14

°
8
3
g
3
:
7
g
Fy
@:
3 2
£
5
é

E

end 5 10

12

13

WARD & PAUL

Ms
15
16
17

18

al
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1791

of information that may-be supplied to you if it happens to be
of a sensational nature or of a surprising nature, do you ever
question the informer on how he obtained it?

Mr. Adams. I am sure this takes place. In any handling
of an informant over a sustained period of time, you do have a
rapport which they don't just come in and say Joe Blow said
this, Joe Blow did that. There is a conversation that goes
through which I feel certain would, if something looked like,

if it looked like he had something that came from some improper

source, I think the agent would say-where did you get this.

| NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 68



KELLYGSH
11/19/75
Tape 8 6

Phone (Area 202) 544-
wD

“LO

12

13

WARD & PAUL .

14
15
16
17

18

20
21
22

23

410 First Streot, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1
wo
a

1792

Senator Huddleston. If you found it had been taken

| improperly or if some improper action had been taken, would

it be. put in the files?
= “Me. adams. “If he violated the law, wé would have an
open Ainvestigation if it were within our jurisdication.

Senator Huddleston. Now the Bureau disseminates this
information on individuals that is collected in ‘various
ways in> the, various other agencies,

How many other agencies can request, for instance, Fs
individual check that would result in your supplying to him
information from these personal intelligence files?

Mr. Adams. Every agent in the Federal Government under
the amployee security program there is an obligation on the
part of every government agency to check with the FBI doing

name check search of our files to see if there is any subversiv

derrogatory information which might militate against appointin

that individual to a Federal position.

Senator Huddleston. Do-you take any precautions as to
how they will use that information once it-is supplied to
them by your agents? : :

Mr. Adams. All we do ae indicate to them on the
report that it is the property of the FBL and is not to be
disseminated outside their agency.

Senator Huddleston. You..have no way of knowing whether

or not indeed it is?

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 69



Phone (Area 20%4,544-6000
i

‘lo

11
12

13

+ WARD & PAUL

14
16

16

R4

420 First Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docid:3298

1793

Mr. Adams, No, sir, we do not.

Senator Huddleston, What internal precautions do you

have against the Bureau itself misusing information that it

gains from other agencies?

Mr. Adams. Strong prohibitions. One, we don't allow
access to files except on a need-to-know basis. Any employee

of the FBI knows that if he improperly divulges information
or leaks information out of the files, he will be subject.
to administrative seein tc fie

We had a case where an ‘agent obtained an identification

record and made it out improperly it and I think that agent

was separated from ths roles. But we had asked for, and of

course we share in CIA's request to this extent, is that there

be a criminal penalty attached to misuse of information and

leaking it or making it available outside of an agency. .

. “This is another issue before Congress.

Did this in fact happen to your knowledge?

Mr. Adams. I am not familiar with that case, I can

543 Page 70



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
w

‘10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
‘1
20
“21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

R24

25

1794

easily say it would not be proper.
: Senator Huddleston. But you don't know whether: it
happened or whether the act.was carried out?
, Mr.Adams. T do not know. =
Senator Huddleston. Mr, “Adams, getting on to another
subject, on& of the techniques used very frequently by’ the

Bureau in its attempt to discredit individuals was to

on many occasions to editors, broadcasters, commentators and
columnists around the country containing information or
suggesting information about “an individual that the Bureau
wanted to discredit in some -way.

There was also some evidence ‘that the Bureau utilized
within the press itself on a regular contact basis certain.
columnists or broadcasters for the purpose of disseminating
information that the FBI wanted to get out about individuals.

How extensive was this custom utilized?

Mr. Adams. -I don't believe it was vary axtensive.

In fact, I think there were probably very few incidents where

- untrue information was put. out.

That is my recollection.

On disseminating public source: information there ne
a number of instances of that which is still ‘proper to date
under guidelines. I just don't know of many instances: where

untrue information was used, and I do not know of too many

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 71



qi

Phone (Area 202} 544-6000
*

10

abe

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
16
16
1?

18

19
20
21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

| NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 72

- 1795

instances overall where that was done.

" Senator Huddleston, Do you know of any instances or

how many actual journalists or practitioners or regular

disseminators of FBI information?

Mr. Adams. I don't. know of any today that are in that

regard, I know there have been situations where, and people
still do. They come to us and say, we would like to do an

article on organized crime. Can you be of assistance?

And if we can be of assistance within the guidelines
established by the Attorney General, we do assist, We have
a pull and a éug over privacy acts. and freedom of information
and also the need to know, but we oo te satisfy.

Sénator Huddleston. Do you know of any at the present

time or in the past who have been paid by the FBI for their

services? : : : oe
, Mr. Adams, Rot personally. I don"t know of any.
Senator Huddleston. Not personally. Do you know of
any evidence that indicates that?
Mr. Adams. That's what I mean. I don't have any
evidence that indicates that. :
Senator Huddleston. I think it would be helpful to our.
inquiry if we could review or you would review the files and
make a determination as to whether or not that might be the
case, that the FBI has paid journalists who are amenable to

disseminating information supplied by the FBI.



a
Phone (Area 208} 544-6000
uw

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
1?
18
19
: 20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

: ; TL 96

Mr. Adams. I am told we have. I don't know what files
we have reviewed, but we have reviewed them and we haven't
found any.

Senator Huddleston. You-haven't ‘found any.

What is the mass media program of the FBI?

Mr. Adams. To try to get the truth out, to get a proper
picture of the FBI's jurisdiction, its activities.

Senator Huddleston. Is it also to suppress other
publications or other commentators or journalists who might
be disseminating other views?

Mr. Adams. No.

Senator Huddleston. ..Did the FBI not take some action
against a number of newspapers, most of them student newspapers
that they felt should be suppressed?

Mr. Adams. We may have in the past. I don't recall
any specific case,

You are talking about some of the Weatherman support
papers or Black Panther paper. I don't know of any in that
regard, but I'm not saying that such action was not taken.

Senator Huddleston. Are you familiar with the special
correspondence list? -

Mr. Adams. Yes.

Senator Huddleston. What is this list?

Mr. Adams. My recollection is that the special

correspondence list was a,list of individuals that had 7

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 73



gsh

Phone (Area 208)'544-6000

+ 10
il

12

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
7
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

25

.Y

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 74

13]

there is any right that is specifically called for in our

1797

from time to time various Bureau publications and were kept
on a continuing list and mailed such communications to them.
Senator Huddleston. It was a list that was considered

to be friendly towards the FBI view? :

Mr. Adams.. Yes. T would say anyone on that list would
normally be friendly. ;

Senator Huddleston. Do you have knowledge of a number
of instances in which the Bureau carrying out its COINTEL
program utilized the existing press in order to attempt to
discredit some individual?

Mr. Adams.” I don't have an idea of the number, but I
don't think there were very Many.

Senator Huddleston. Do you have a list of Pera
in which the Psa ent eng to discredit other publications?

Mr, Adams. No, I ee

Senator Huddleston. Do you know that they did occur?

Mr. Adams. I can ask. I get a no as far as any knowledge
in that regard.

Senator Huddleston. As far as knowledge.

Mr. Adams. That means knowledge of what we have come

up with in our current review, I would assume.

Senator Huddleston. It seems to me that this is an

area in ch.we are particularly troubled and should be. If

@

Constitution and has been upheld and reaffirmed in court decisioh



_& —

Q
a.
a
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
x
ot

ake)
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16

17

19
20
21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

+ 25.

a i 1798

after court decision, it is the right to publish in this
country. The First Amendment speaks not only of freedom of
Speech, but also freedom of the press. And yet it seems that
we have a pattern here of the chief law enforcement agency

of the country attempting to suppress that very right.

Mr. Adams.’ Ir haven't aa I ‘think any effort to
manipulate the press of, this Sone I just don't see any
possibility in that regard and I don't see’ the logic of
anyone even attempting such.

Senator Huddleston. But it did happen.

Mr. Adams, It may have happened in --

Senator Huddleston. ‘In a rather extensive field. .

Mr. Adams. I disagree with that rather extensive field.
I just don't know the extent that you are talking to here.

Senator Huddleston. “We are talking about the cases where

“Mr, Adams, Are you lumping in cases where we disseminate
public source information? Are you lumping in a case where
we may have gone toa --

Senator Huddleston. I think disseminating public source
information is somewhat different from furnishing a TV
commentator with derrogatory information about a specifid™
individual who has been targeted as one. that apparently the
Bureau thinks is dangerous or his ideas ought to be suppressed.

anaes : :

Mr, Adams, Is that manipulating the press, though?

Here you have a situation where an individual is going around

NW 65360 Doclid:32989543 Page 75



Q
a

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
cy

. 10

11

“12

WARD & PAUL,

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
_ a1
22
23

24

410 First Strest, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1799

‘the country advocating off-the-pig or kill-the-police or

something like that. And a newspaper man was furnished; say
some background information on’ him which would have been in
the area of public source matexial which he could use in an
article.

Are we really, if the information is.true, the final

decision, it would seem to me, would be the newspaperman as

to whether he would use any such information. | -

I think if we concealed our motives from the newspaper

man, or furnished false information, which I think we did in

one anonymous letter or something that I saw in all of this,
I would say that was improper.
Senator Huddleston. - Or --
Mr. Adams. I think newsmen have sources, I think --
Senator Huddleston. or convincing a cartoonist, for

instance, to draw a derrogatory cartoon about a college

professor who. certainly did not constitute a threat to the

violent overthrow of the government.

Mr. Adams. If anyone Bccaess us of having any great
success in trying to influence the press, I think that their
objectivity stands pretty high.

- Senator Huddleston. I think the point is whether there

was succgss or not, there was an effort made. I'm glad to

hear you acknowledge now that it is almost an impossibility.

But more than that it seems to me at the beginning when

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 76



i

8

8

3

he

¢

3

H
oe

g

8

g

g

2

H

é

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

End 14

Begin 7 15

16
7
1s
8
g 19
d
€ 20
g
z 21
a
rs 22
& 23
r ee
é
sg 24
3
25

“NW"-65360—Docld:32989542-Page 77

- 1800 *

these type. of techniques were used, it seemed to indicate a
lack of confidence or faith in the American people to believe

that ‘they could not hear ideas that might be contrary to their

own without being serious damaged. ;

One of the great freedoms we have is the freedom of
hearing other ideas whether we agree with them or not. I
think this is an area that we are concerned with and one
technique which I hope is being discontinued and one that will
be by the time these hearings conclude and by the time proper
legislation is drawn.

Mr. Adams. Well, I think you can be assured that any
such techniques in that area died with COINTELPRO in 1971.

Senator Huddleston.. That’ is comforting.

Mr. adams. Yes. :

The Chairman (presiding)... Thank you, Senator. -

I have been forced in and out by virtue of votes and 7
Committee business. I am not sure which Senators have had
their opportunity to pe and which have not.

Senator Goldwater, were you next?

Senator golawater. I will not take much time. I
apologize for not having been here in the last two days. It
is going good, I have heard. :

We have heard testimony regarding the voluminous records,
I believe 500,000, maintained by the Bureau.

How in your view have these records come to be kept?



iy

a
Phone (Area 20f4,544-6000
KB
oOo

10

il

12

13

2
5
<
cy
“
Q
e
<
2

14

15

16

17

18

ig

20

al

“R22

‘410 First Street, S.., Washington, D.C. 20003 *

24

25

23 |

41801

For what purpose have they been kept and has the Bureau ever
undertaken to destroy or prune down any of these records?.

Mr. Adams. We have a number of records. We are
a business-like. organization. We record our activities. And
as the staff knows, they had access to a lot of recorded
material that is the product of what the FBI has done over
the years. :

” When we conduct an investigation, we maintain the
results. We do have destruction procedures where after the
passage of certain time limits approved by the Archives
authority, we are allowed to destroy certain files, Other
information we are required to put on microfilm. There is
a regular standard procedure for the destruction of FBI
files, This has been. suspended, of course, during the”
initiation of these hearings and our files probably have
increased eee eta as this period because we are not
allowed to destroy anything since the Committee Serena
its hearings.

But we do have procedures for destroying these that
are approved by ‘the Archives, and a problem inherent in that
is maintaining information, what should we keep, what should
we obtain during an investigation, what should we record?

In the past we have ie pretty consistent in recording

oa : :

everything we thought was relevant to the investigation. The

passage of the Privacy Act put certain restrictions in. We

| NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 78



ia

Q
Phone (Area 2081 544-6000
e
e

ol

10

iL

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

22

23

410 First Street, S.£., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 79.

‘21-

1802

cannot collect or maintain anything unless it is relevant to

an ongoing. matter of which we have investigative jurisdiction.
But beyond even the Privacy Act, the Attorney General

instituted a guidelines ae eer this arsa that we haye

been meeting diligently with every day and hopefully have

tried to avoid this idea that we are for no good reason

maintaining a gossip, scandal, and unncessary, irrelevant

material.

7 ‘so once these guidelines are in some sort of final
form, not to be adopted, then the Attorney. General has
indicated that he is going to take it up with the various
Congressional committees to get their input into it, anrip

which they will be published.

Senator Goldwater. Well, now these dossiers, I think
you can call them that probably.

Mr. Adams. I prefer not to, but I accept the fact that
that is how they are referred to.

Senator Goldwater. What do you call them?

Mr. Adams. I call them files. To me, I guess we all
have aur little hang-ups, but to me that is usually used in
some sinister connotation. It is probably not to you. - But
I wild use whatever terminology you want to use on this.

Senator Goldwater. I hope what you have on me is not

nee : :
called a dossier. : ‘

Mr, Adams, No, sir, it's a collection of material.



Phone (Area 20% 544-6000

Lo
i
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

(General laughter)

Mr. Adams. O£ which you are aware.

Senator Goldwater, That's right. _

Now let me ask you, the information you have would
probably be on computer tape?

Mr. Adams. No, sir.

Senator Goldwater. It's not. Information that IRS
would have, is that computerized?
z Mr. Adams. re may be. I'm not familiar with the extent
of theirs. We do have certain computer activities, such as
the National crime Information Center, or we have, I guess,
7 or 8 million records. This is not the usual file material.
This is, it consists of individuals concérning whom a
warrant is outstanding, stolen property, material such as
this. And also some documented criminal history information
in the nature of prior arrest history. But not what I think
you are referring to in the way of file material, reports,

intelligence, this type of information.

JFK Law 11(a)

Mx. Adams. No, sir,

Senator Goldwater. There's. no Such list that you know



Phone (Area 292) 544-6000
w

Lo

eae

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

—NW.65360_Docld:32989543 Page 81

: 1804

Mr. Adams. i don't know what other agencies have, but
the FBI does not have such a list, does not have such a
capability to interface with such.a List af such a list
exists.

Senator Goldwater, Do you feel vather. safe in saying
then that no agency of government has put together such a
computerized total of all the information on the people that -
you have surveilled? i

Mr. Adams. Oh, I think it is safe to say I don't know
of any. Today I'am not saying what does exist or doesn't
exist elsewhere.

Senator Goldwater. -In addition to the 500,000 records
that you have, would I be correct in saying that you have
50 million data cards and that there's $82 million spent on
intelligence in the Fiscal year 1975 in maintaining this
library?

: Mr. Adams. No, I don't think that: -is correct. I think
the figure of $82 million is what our budget people have
drawn up as being the total cost in permet year of our
intelligence operations, security, criminal, organized crime,
the whole intelligence field. But I don't relate it to the
maintenance of any data cards. :
Senator Goldwater. Now one other area, and I think it

probably, according to thea records, it does go back to ‘70.



g
:

i
o
8
$s
8
=

Lo
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

“14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 82

1805

How did the. Bureau one to place the so-called women's
lib movement under surveillance, and I say so-called. because
I think we discovered that there was no such organized movement,

Mr’, Adams. There were a lot of Sener It is my
recollection -- I have not reviewed the file in detail, but
it is my recollection that the case was originally opened
because of indications that certain groups were attempting
to infiltrate or control the women's liberation movement.

The investigation was conducted and was terminted several
years ago, as far as I know.

Senator Goldwater. Do you. know of any actions that were
taken by the. Bureau as to the women's liberation movement
except to monitor it?

Mr. Adams. No. And the monitoring was for the purpose
of determining the infiltration, and I don't know of any
actions taken against them.

Senator Goldwater. That's ‘all I have, Mr. Chairman.
Thank you.

The Chairman. | Thank you, Senator Goldwater.

Senator Hart, have you had an opportunity to question?

Senator Hart of Colorado. No, I have not.

The Chairman. Senator Hart.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

In the testimony yesterday developed by the staff concerning

the last few days of Martin Luther King's life, we learned



ey
7}

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
BH
a

- 10

ll

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003,

25

%

that the Bureau in March of 1968 developed information to
be. given to the press criticizing Dr. King for staying in
a white-owned and Secreted hotel, the Holiday Inn in Memphis,
instead of the Lorraine. :

At some point during Dr. King's stay in Memphis, he
moved from thé Holiday Inn to Lorraine.

To your knowledge, Mr. Adams, was that information ever
given to the press?

Mr. Adams. I have been unable to determine that. This
question was raised of me by the Civil Rights Division of the
Department. Apparently, they had had some inquiry along

the same lines several months ago. But my recollection of it

at the time, Wwe saw that this action had been proposed and
the memorandum bore the initials, I rey ei it was the
initials, statement handled, and the initials of the agent
in the External Affairs Division who assumed the responsibility
of saying handle it and initiated it..

They contacted him and he said that he had no recollection
of the matter but the fact eee: he did pew handled didn't
mean that he was able to do anything with-it. He was just
clearing that memorandum so it would show action was taken,
and he doesn't know if he gave it to anyone or not.

" Sugator. Hart of Colorado. Well, suffice it to say that

the facts are that subsequent to the time the Bureau developed

this information to pass on to the press, it did appear in the

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 83



16

g
3
s
3
gsig
Hy
3
Ed
3
;
&

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

u
15
16
17

18

20

al

S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

22

23

24

25

19.

1807

local papers in Memphis.

Mr. Adams. There was Some statement in the local papers,
not Seats to the terminology of the proposed statement that
was to Be given to him. There was some comment made, if .I
recall, that Martin Lather King gave a press conference
following the riots that followed one of his appearances,
and that he gave that press conference in a hotel, the Holiday

Inn Hotel. But it didn't have any, at least the newspaper

article itself didn't have any direct relation to acts taken.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Well, according to some
historians and, paople who have commented on the circumstances,
they were fairly explicit in stating that the local press
was critical of him during that period for staying in the
white hotel, but I don't want to make a big tisde out of
that.

What was the name of the agent that you talked to?

Mr. Adams. I didn't talk to him personally. People in
the Bureau that were working on this did and I believe his
name was Linbaugh, Lei-n-b-a-u-g-h.

" Senator Hart of Colorado. If you could provide that
name to us, I would appreciate it.

Mr, Adams. I would bs glaa to.

Senator Hart of Colerado. Mr. Adams, was any effort
made during this entire COINTELPRO period to objectively

define what the New Left meant? What was your understanding

| NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 84



1808

o
yp
ww
4
5
Bi
a
w
°
° cal it ie) at. Ww o ‘e foe) oO °o ca a Sel st Ww
diate S A A A AD A A AH HR AR RM RA ARN
~ »
a ion .
0009-b9s (Zoz eof) euoud anva ® aavm £0002 “Da ‘uoysulysem, WAS S414 OTH
n

“@

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 85



AKELLY/smnl
t. 8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
o NM FH

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

1809

Mr, Adams. They did have a definition of the New Left
distinguishing it from the Old Left. It was primarily to dis-
tinguish it from the, in the area that the New Left was trying
to separate itself from the old hidebound policies of the:
Communist Party or some of its links to the Communist Party.

Perhaps Mr. Wannall has a better definition of that.

Senator Hart of Colorado. It very definitely included those|
who were opposed to the war, organized groups that opposed the
war and felt strongly about racial injustice in this country,
leaving the Communist Party aside.

Mr. Adams. People involved in the New Left movement were,
of course, also involved in the Vietnam, perriep ne was
effort.

Senator Hart of Colorado. What do you mean also?

That's what I'm trying to get out. What was the New
Left? If you didn't oppose the war and you weren't involved in
civil rights groups, who else might aa have been?

Mr. Adams. Well, the New Left was a -- did involve a
revolutionary philosophy. It wasn't related solely to the
anti-Vietnam effort.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Thomas Jefferson embodied a
revolutionary philosophy.

Mr. Adams. That's right. And the New Left activity
exceeded Thomas Jefferson's philosophy in that it did fit in

with the basic Communist philosophy.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 86



E

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
wn

. 10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

_ 14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

7

1810
Senator Hart of Colorado. Every group that was placed unde!

the efforts of the COINTELPRO supported the violent overthrow
of this country?

Mr. Adams. The concept of COINTELPRO was directed toward *
those organizations. I would have to refresh my memory on each
one of the organizations that were targets of it, but they were
basically New Left, Communist Party, Socialist Workers Party,
New Left, black extremists, white hate groups, those were the
five basics.

Senator Hart of Colorado. The Southern Christian Leader-

ship Conference? -

Mr. Adams, The Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

_T don't know if it was involved specifically in COINTELPRO.

Three minor actions were taken against the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Well, its. leader, I*think you
could say, for eight years was subject tod lot more than three
minor actions.

Mr. Adams. That's right, and that gets into the other
area that the activities taken against him were primarily
COINTELPRO type activities but weren't really under the control
of --

Senator Hart of Colorado. You're saying that basically
ry : :

“every. organization and individual that was swept into the

net of the five COINTELPRO nets supported the violent overthrow

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 87



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

“22

“23

“R4

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

“25

NW 65360 Dox Ad: 329895

1811
of this country?

Mr. Adams. Well, not just the violent overthrow of ‘the

government. It would have been organizations that were threaten
ing and fomenting violence. I..don't believe it had to be
related to the actual overthrow of the government.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Is a street demonstration
violent?

Mx. Adams. It depends on where you are in relation to

what is taking place. If there are a lot of activities in
connection with street demonstrations that are not violent,

and there are a lot of street demonstrations that have reported
in deaths, so it just depends on activity taking place and

the circumstances.

Our problem is we are given the responsibility by the
Attorney General to monitor demonstrations which have the
potential of violence. The question is, how do you find out,
at what point do you get in and monitor demonstrations to deter:
miné if that has a potential violence?

Senator Hart of Colorado. Well,.obviously what we're
told was here is, we have received testimony to the effect
that the FBI went out of.its.way to foment violence itself,
to encourage disruptions internally, to encourage hostilities
oe conflict between.and among these groups in the hope that
violence would occur, ana therefore you could, say,go back to

the Director or the press or whomever and say look, this is



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
nw

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

24

410 Furst Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 89

1812
a violent group.

Mr. Adams. I accept the allegation but°I don't accept the
fact, the conclusion that, from what I have seen in reviewing
these files in connection with our investigations, we don!t
foment violence. We don't permit as a matter of policy our
informants to act as provocateurs to engage in violence. I am
not denying it may have happened, but the FBI does not foment
violence, and the FBI, you know, has no --

Senator Hart of Colorado. You are using ‘present .tense
verbs. --I think --

Mr. Adams. We didn't then. I don't agree that our actiong
in any event era designed to foment violence.

Senator Hart of Colorado. I think there is plenty of
documentation of the attempt to set the Black Panthers against
the Blackstone Rangers in Chicago. ~

Mr. Adams. Well, I don't.consider that.plenty of evidence.
I think. the evidence to the contraty is that one of the.
organizations, when we got word that the Black Panther versus
US, we notified the local police that.this activity was going
to take place, and.the individual, so that we would prevent.
the killing which had come to our attention was going to take
place, and then the turndowns of various COINTELPRO actions,
there were specific statements made, that will not be
approved because it might result in harm to an individual,

physical harm, and we have no indication from any of these



wo

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000 3
H

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

716

17

18

19

20

21

“R22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

@ 24

25

%

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 90

1813
actions under COINTELPRO that any violent act occurred, and I
have not been presented with any by the staff from their far
more extensive inquiry.

Senator Hart of Colorado. June 3rd, 1968, a memorandum
from the Special Agent in Charge of Cincinatti to the Director
of the FBI, the title of which is Counterintelligence Program,
Disruption of the New Left, a five page memorandum having to
do with Antioch College in Ohio. It is a long description of
the college and background. There is a recommendation on page
3, Cincinatti recommends that counterintelligence action be
taken to expose:the pseudo-intellectual image of Antioch, and i
gives specific -ways of doing that, and then the next page,
page 4, the desired result of action, force Antioch to
defend itself as an educational institution.

Where in the laws of this country or the charter of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation does it.say that that ape
should.be forcing.any educational institution to defend itself?

Mr. Adams. .I know of none.

Senator Hart of Colorado. You would say this is stepping
beyond .the bounds of .your authority?

Mr. Adams. I would say -- I'm not familiar with the total
action of what was there, but just on the surface I don't see
any basis for it.

sen@tor Hart of Colorado... It ‘is my understanding that

participating field officers of the countérintelligence, the



B

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
o nD

10

11

12

WARD & PAUL

13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
“722
23

R4

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

. that. fell into a. different degree.

1814

COINTELPRO activities were required to send in status letters
and report in annual results.

Is that correct?

Mr. Adams. Yes. .

Senator Hart of Colorado. What kind of results generally
were you looking for? What was considered success? i

Mr. Adams. Well, it would be considered success, like
in one instance where an action was taken to create factionalism

in the highest level of the Communist Party, and the results

were that we were advised that the Communisty Party influence
declined appreciably as a direct result of factionalism created
at that level. That to us was a concrete result.

We had other results where, well, you get in various
degrees. That is an extremely favorable degree. We had others
I think one was alluded to yesterday or today where.a letter
went on setting. up. a marital. strife. on. the. part of. someone.

I don't see. any. basis. or. justification. for.that. I think that

is the.other.extreme. I think in the middle there were ones

The only thing that I feel is we had. 3000 actions
recommended. The Bureau -- just like this Antioch one. I
don't know if the document shows whether that was approved or
not. I doubt that it was approved.

dl Senator Hart of Colorado. I believe it was. We can

document that.

| NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 91



smn 7

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
i)

10

ah

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
1?
18
19
20
21
“22
23

24

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 92

1815

Mr. Adams. Okay. Because there would be one. I would
say the judgment in approving that is in question. But out
of 3000 recommended, the fact that 2000 approved shows that
there was some concern to try to.keep these to a proper level,
and I think the actual number of grossly improper activities
fortunately is rather small. I think there are a lot in there.

Well, the whole program, we feel, should have been dis-
continued, and we don't have a program like it now, and we
wouldn't institute a program like it now.

Senator Hart of Colorado. It would be helpful to us if
now or in the future you could recommend what steps we should
take, both as the Committee and this Congress, to make sure
that doesn't happen, aside from just the assurances we are being
given here.

Mr. Adams. Well, the’ main recommendation I make is that
we don't wind up on the point we have been.an in the past
years that one time in. our history. Congress. is saying we ought
to be doing. something to stop. violence in the streets, murders,
blowing up.of buildings,. and at another. time they are saying
you shouldn't have done. what you did, and that we make a
mistake when we react and try to identify one area and say that
is the voice of the people. What we need is a legislative
mandate which is the will of Congress in order to tell us what
our role should be in this area. I think that is the main

thing that would come out of all of these, I hope, some more



E

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

. 10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

21

22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

r ) 24

25

.informants are?

8 iat
“own special informants?

1816
definitive guideline where we all know what the will of the
people is as expressed by Congress.

Senator Hart of Colorado. I believe my time is up.

Senator Tower (presiding). Mr. Adams, to return. to the
business of informants which I initiated and was interrupted
by a vote, who selects an informant?

Mr. Adams. The basic responsibility is on our special
agent personnel who develop informants, the agent on the street.

Senator Tower. Does the Special Agent in Charge in a given

area have control over the activities of an informant or a veto

on the use of a particular informant?

Mr. Adams. Not only the Special Agent in Charge, but FBI
headquarters. We maintain the tightest possible control of the
utilization of informants. We require Bureau approval to utilige
a person as an informant.

Senator Tower. The Special Agent in Charge has the power
to veto the use of an informant? ofS

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

Senator Tower. Does headquarters know who all the

Mr. Adams. Absolutély. We do not allow hip pocket
informants. We require -- |

Senator Tower. You.idon't have the agents informed by thei

Mr. Adams. Absolutely not.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 93



Bg

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10
il

“12

WARD & PAUL

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

"RR

23

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

c ) 24

25

1817

Senator Tower. Are the criteria different for paid.and
for non-paid informers?

Mr. Adams. We have some informants over the years that have
refused to accept payment, but generally the criteria for
both, I mean for ones that are paid is that it must be ona
COD basis, evaluated as to the value of the information.

Senator Tower. What protections are afforded to
informants?

Mr. Adams. Protections afforded them individually?

Senator Tower. Yes.

Mr. Adams. The greatest protection in the world we can
afford them is to maintain the confidential relationship which
they have adopted with the FBI, and the fact that those citizen:
of the United States who, for whatever reason, decide to
cooperate with the FBI and cooperate with their government
in criminal and the security field, have that .confidentiality .
maintained, and beyond that confidentiality we are unable to:
afford them any protection,. any physical protection. We have

had informants murdered through disclosure. We have had them

subjected. to. other. violence. and. criminal. activities, and the
only. protection beyond maintaining the confidentiality is once
we have. used. them or. had. to. expose. them. for. some. purpose, we
do. have. procedures. for. relocation. and. maintenance. of. them which
is. utilized. quite. frequently in the top ee and the Cosa

Nostra type investigations.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 94



1818

P

Senator Tower.. It is. my understanding now that 83 percent

of all: cases involve. some. use. of informants,-so that means that

wn

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000 g :
w
°

oO

the use is. pretty.widespread. and. apparently very essential.

What kind. of. guidance. does the. FBI: give. to these informants]

SB

to give them any special training? Could you describe that kin

a

6 of. relationship in terms of guidelines, control, authority,
9 what have you?

8 Mr. Adams. Well, when an individual is being developed
g || as an informant, our main concern is whether he provides

10 ||. reliable information and that the information he collects is
41 || collected by legal means. We don't permit an informant to
12 || engage in any activity that an agent couldn't do legally

13 himself. In other words, you can't have an extension of the

WARD & PAUL

14 || agent out here engaging in illegal acts, and the agent saying
15 I abide by the law. This creates some problems, of course,

in the criminal field where you don!t.recruit informants from

~ 23 , the. discussions...

We. secure. background. information on. ‘the. informants. We

16
ned Sunday schools. You recruit.informants-in areas where they do
18 have knowledge of criminal activities. But we even had to
2
8 “19 || open: investigations: and prosecute some of: our informants, be-~
&
g
a - gq |] cause: we: do. not. bend. from. this,. that they. are: not going to
¢
§
Hy 1 enjoy favorite. status. as. a- result.of their. relationship. with
=
af “-g9 |] Us-- So. the agent covers all of this with an informant during
&
z
S
3

25 do this to ensure, as best as possible, we are dealing with a

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 95



5

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

* 10
il
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20

21

“22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

.

24 actually considering in an informant status.

1819
reliable, stable individual even though he may be engaged in
an unstable activity, and we go through this period and consider}
them more or less, in different terminology, probationary,
potential, verifying information,that he furnishes us, and
everytime when they report on the status of an informant, they |

have to tell us what percentage of his information has been

verified by other means, by other informants or sources.

So we do have a continuing indoctrination which is
supervised at FBI headquarters.

Senator Tower. You said you don't recruit your informants
from Sunday school class. Being an ex-Sunday school teacher, I
resent that, but --

Mr. Adams. I am talking in the criminal field. Many of
our security informants come from a very fine background.

Senator Tower. But this leads me into this. Sometimes,
then, you might recruit people that you know have committed
criminal acts.

Mr. Adams. That's true.

Senator Tower. Do you promise him immunity from future
scornerirpeat in many instances to el their. cooperation?

Mr. Adams. No. Now, the only exception to that would be

we may have an ongoing, it is what you call an informant -- I

believe your question is addressed to someone that we are

Senator Tower. Yes.

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 96


:
€
i
a
8
&
g
é

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

al

22

23

a4

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1820

Mr. Adams. We do have situations,where during an-investi-
gation we target on one individual, the lower rung, and the
United States Attorney and the Department offer immunity. We
don't. And say, you cooperate, and we go up the ladder to the
next level, and in some of these cases we have gone up through
successive stages until we get the main honcho who we feel is
the proper target of our: investigation.

Senator Tower. Getting on another subject, does the
FBI still request bank audits?

Mr. Adams. Bank audits? Do you mean do we still have
access to bank records?

Senator Tower. Yes.

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir, we do.

Senator Tower. And do you obtain access with or without
warrants?

Mr. Adams. We obtain access without warrants.

Senator Tower. Without warrants?

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir.

Senator Tower... Is the subject notified in advance by the
FBI when you obtain one without a warrant?

Mr. Adams. No, sir.

.Senator Tower. Are they notified by the bank, or is he
notified subsequently by the FBI?
Mr. Adams. No. We do get subpoenas in Many cases, not

warrants, but we do get subpoenas in many cases, but in some

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 97



a
5
i
w

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

end 8 17
begin 18
19
20
él
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003 io

24

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 98

1821

cases a bank will make available to us records without subpoena.
When it comes time for utilizing that information we do igsue
a subpoena for the information.

Senator Tower. Do you have-.legal authority to gain.
access to these records? a

Mr. Adams. Yes, sir, we do.

Senator Tower. Without a subpoena, without a court
document?

Mr. Adams. There is no law that I know of that forbids
us access. There have been several court decisions, including
some circuit courts that disagree with each other, but I think
the current finding is that the bank records are the ‘records
of the bank and this does not violate any First Amendment or
other Amendments in connection with it.

Senator Tower. Do you make similar requests of S&Ls and
other, and credit unions and other financial institutions?

Mr. Adams. I would assume the same would provide there.

The Chairman (presiding). Thank you, Senator Tower.

I just have a. question or two. We are going to try to
conclude this morning because the Committee has a hearing, a
business meeting at 2:00 o'clock this afternoon and for the
information of the members, that meeting will take place in
room 3110 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.

And. while I am making announcements, I think I should say.

that tomorrow between the hours of 9:00 o'clock in the morning



a
a
B
e
=

Oc

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
ol

10

il

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14,

15
16
17
18
19
20

al

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 99

1822
and 1:00 o'clock in the afternoon, the Committee will report
its findings and make its recommendations to-the Senate in
connection with our investigation into alleged involvement of
the United States in certain assassination plots, and attempts
directed against foreign leaders.

The Committee, as you know, has made i exhaustive investi
gation of this issue. It has taken some six months; 75 Bitsesce
have been interrogated, over 8000 pages of testimony have ‘been
taken, mountains of documents have been analyzed and digested,
and the report will be a detailed accounting to the American
people of that evidence, together with the findings and
recommendations of the Committee.

Initially these disclosures will be made to the Senate in
secret session, after which the Committee has previously voted
cS -auxe the report public. Therefore, it is anticipated that
at 2:30 tomorrow afternoon in this room,. the caucus room,
following that secret session. of the Senate, the Committee will
meet with the press for the purpose of. answering such
questions as the press may wish to address to the Committee on
the assassination report.

Now, the last few questions I would like to put to you,

Mr. Adams, have to do with some confusion in my mind concerning

the purpose of the FBI in monitoring the Women's Liberation

movement, what was that? what was that, surveillance done for?

Why were you involved in monitoring that movement?

a



smn 15

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
w

. 10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

"22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

¥

acquired, it would indicate there were groups that were believed

14,

‘is what the documents reveal. For example, if you will turn --

‘one, two, three, four pages where you find under the caption

|

Mr. Adams. It was basically, as I recall, I have not

reviewed the files, but from the information that I have

to be infiltrating and attempting to exert control over it. That
investigation was based_or_initiated on this fact.

The Chairman. But you never found, aia you, that the
Women's Liberation movement or seriously infiltrated, influenced

or controlled by Communists.

Mr. Adams. No, and the case was closed. I would put them
in the position of comments we have made earlier about the
press, that I don't think anyone is going to dominate or controll.
That is a very independent group.

The Chairman. Well, we are trying to keep the country that
way. :

Mr, Adams. That's right.

The Chairman. And the kind of thing that disturbs me

you have the document book there with you. If you will turn
to Tab 5, 5-4, can you find that? Can you move your thumb
through the pages to 5-4?

Have you found that? It's in the upper right hand
corner, 5-4, under Tab 5.

Mr. Adams. Yes.

e : fan .
The Chairman. Then, if you will turn back beyond that,

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 100



H
a

Phone (Area 202) 544-66h0

10

il

12

713

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

“1?

18

19

20

al

-22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 101

1824
Origin, Aims, and Purposes, a description of the Women's
Liberation movement in Baltimore, Maryland.

Now, I call your attention to this because it seems to me
to typify the whole problem of this generalized kind of
surveillance over activities of American citizens. Here is
the report, if you will read with me this paragraph, the
report on the group reads as follows: "The Women's Liberation
movement in Baltimore, Maryland began during the summer of
1968, There was no structure or a parent organization. . There
were no rules or plans to go by. It started out as a group
therapy session with young women who were either lonely or
confined to the home with small children, getting together to
talk out their problems. Along with this they wanted a
purpose and that was to be free women from the humdrum
existence of being only a wife and mother. They wanted
equal opportunities that men have in work and in eoetety: They
wanted their husbands to share in the housework and in rearing
their children. They also wanted to go out and work in whateve
kind of jobs they wanted, and not to be discriminated against
as women."

Now, can you. find anything in that report that in any way
suggests that these women were engaged in improper or unlawful
activity?. .

‘ Mr. Adams. Not in that one. I believe there was another

report, though, giving the origin of it, which went into a



smn 17

Phono (Area 202) 544-6000
wo

10

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

23

410 First Street, S-E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

iL

22°

—NW.-65360_Docld:32989543 Page 102

little mo:

The

I have --

1825

re description of what our basic interest was.

Chairman. Can you tell me, because this is the report

Mx. Adams. Well, I am given here --

The
activity
document

Mr.
“Women's
movement

as the Wo:

Chairman. What other, if there was some sinister
connected with this group that isn't laid out in the
Adams. I was given a work paper here which reads,
Liberation Movement. Investigation of captioned

was initiated by our New York Office in April 1969

men's Libber movement was described as a loosely

structured women's movement comprised of individuals with

varying i

deologies from liberal to New Left persuasion, some

of whom had exhibited an affiliation with and/or sympathy

for several organizations of investigative interest to this

Bureau, namely, the Students for a Democratic. Society, Black

Panther Party, the Vietnam. Peace Parade. Committee, Venceremos

Brigade,.

the Socialist.Workers Party, with its youth group

the Young Socialist. Alliance."

The
Mr.

“The

Chairman. May I stop you at this point?
Adams. Yes.

Chairman. You are reading from a paper which has to

do with the origination of an investigation coming out of

New York, -

Mr.

are you not?-

Adams. Yes.



18

3
o

Phone (Area 202) 544-6600
no

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
Wv
18
19
20
21

“22
23

24

410 First Street, S.€., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1826

The Chairman. I am reading from a document that relates”
to the Women's Liberation Movement in Baltimore, and the findin
concerning it in the summer of 1968. My question hasn't to do
with whatever original purpose the FBI sought by initiating
this kind of surveillance in New York, but with a finding
made concerning the Women’s Liberation movement in Baltimore
which I have just- read to you, and I think you would agree with
me that women do have the right to get together to talk about
humdrum existence and equal opportunities with men and equal
opportunities for work in our society, don't they? That is
not a subversive activity.

Mr. Adams. Well, but what you have here is the setup of
our investigative activity. We had New York, which was the
office of oxigin of the investigation. You have other offices

that were checking to determine what influence there was.

.In addition, in New York, to the New York office, lay the fact

that interwoven. with. the Women's. Liberation movement goal for

.equal rights for women, there was.an advocacy certainly of

militancy and violence in achieving their. goals.
Now, Baltimore is one office, and I believe that even
there in one of the reports --
“The Chairman. You keep taking me back to New York.
Mr. Adams. Right.
ne

The Chairman. And I keep taking you back to Baltimore.

And the reason I do that is because if you turn two pages

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 103



5

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000,

_ lo
1
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14,

15

16

1?

18

19

20

al

22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

%

@ ae : .
‘a parent organization, no rules or. plans, so it isn't a part

1827

back from this particular report, which has to do with the
Baltimore organization, the question is whether based upon that
finding the investigation should continue of the Baltimore
group, and the decision is that you will continue to follow
and report on the activities of the group.

And I just wondered why --

Mr. Adams. This is a problem that we have, that we do
have organizations where sometimes the -- the Women's Liberation
group is not a good example because that was washed out, but

we do have organizations where --

The Chairman. What was washed out? Not the Women's
Liberation movement?

Mr. Adams. No, the investigation indicated there was
no concern or no reason to be concerned about it.

But where you do have an organization that has branches
in many areas of the country, and you start with one place and
it looks like you have a subversive organization, you do have
to see, well, is this carried. out. throughout the organization
or is it just one chapter.or one group? In other words, not
even an organizational problem.

The Chairman. But you see, in this -- the trouble with
that is in this Baltimore organization you say in your own

report that it was independent, there was no structure or

of a national controlled and directed organization called by

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 104



Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

a1

22

23

24

410 First Stroot, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 105

1828

your own admission sll

Mr. Adams. I believe this report had some subsequent
pages that aren't included in here that did show some additional)
activity or influence.

The Chairman. I am told by the staff that this summary is
accu tc] and the only other thing contained was that these
women had affiliations with an organization that had protested
the war in Baltimore.

Mr. Adams. I think there were some other items.

The Chairman. That is the only other association that
we have been able to determine.

Now, in a case of this kind, do you still carry -- you say
this has been closed. Apparently the Women's Liberation move-
ment is no longer under suspicion by the FBI and the case has
been closed. What happens when the case is closed? Are those
women's names still left in. the files?

Are they forever more contained?

Mr. Adams. Yes.

The Chairman. In the system? Yes. There is no -- yes.

Mr. Adams. Yes.

The Chairman. Pretty soon you will have us all in the
system.

I mean, if there is no way, even after surveillance has
been terminated to terminate the peeerences of individuals

through the files of the system, you will one day have us all,



smn 21

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

10

i

12

13

[on
WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

“22

23

420 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

1829
won't you?

Mr. Adams. Well, I would say as part of a normal business
record, when we do make a judgment that an organization should
be investigated and we investigate it, and then we find activiti
but we make a conclusion that there is no additional problem
here, this is a record of our official action. Now, if we
destroy it, at what point do we get into a situation of being
accused of doing things and then destroying things to keep from
showing what we do?

The critical thing on this is whether we are able, and we
do set up safeguards, where information in our files is not
misused at a later date, and that is what these guideline

committees are all about.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 106



kellyGsH
11/1975
Tape 40 1

Phone (Area 202) 54
wo

Lo

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
“22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

_ NW_65360_Docld:32989543 Page 107

1830

The Chairman. Do you have a idea of how many names of
Americans you keep in your files all as a result of the
cumulative effect of all of these surveillances in all of
these cases? .

Mr. Adams. No, I don't. —

The Chairman. It's in the millions, isn't it?

Mr. Adams, We have 6 1/2 million files.

the Chairman. You have 6 1/2 million files?

Mr, Adams. Yas, sir.

The Chairman. And there are surely names of more than
one person typically in a file, aren't they?

Mr. adams. But it is a rather large country.

The Chairman. That's a large number of files to start.
with, and if you have multiple names in them, you ars quickly
up in to the, you know, 20, 30, 40 million.

Mr. Adams. Right. But many of these files are
applicant files. They are not all subversive files. They are
not all criminal files. We have a million crimes of viclence
each year.

There is a million people.

The Chairman. Sure, and I wish you had more time to
spend on those crimes of violence.

Mr. Adams. I do too,

The Chairman. * there we agree.

‘Mr. Adams, Right.



Q
n

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
N

. 10
11

12

WARD & PAUL,

13

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

al

22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

.}

NW 65360 Doctd:32989543 Bage 108

that we hope we will be able to come to Congress with these

The Chairman. What I worry about is this. You say there's

1831

no way to know when to close a file. These were surveillance
files, or originally opened up to determine whether enter
might have subversive connections. ~ i . ea

There are names in these. files, so some demagogue comes
along and says against some public figure that his name is
contained in a certain file to be found in the subversive
files of the FBI and there it is. Ne has not made.a nisstatenext
at all. But to the American people that man's name and
Yeputation has been scarred.

Mr. Adams.- And I hope this Committee recognizes that
and recommends legislation that would enforce strong punitive
or criminal violations against misuse of information in the
files, We ‘feel this way, CIA feels this way. We recognize
we have a lot of sensitive information in it. We fire our
employees if we find them misusing information. We feel
we need additional sanctions in this area.

I don't think we can ever stop the accumulation of
information, I don't know an investigative agency in the
world, a law enforcement agency, that does not have to
accumulate information. And we are working on guidelines
as to how to gat rid cf the irrelevant information, how to

icone material that really does not need to be kept,

guidelines before too long, which will help addrass itself



@.,

n
Phone (Area 203) 544-6000
Ww

10

121

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

1?

18

19

20

al

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

1832

to just some of these problems.

The Chairman. Well, you may be assured that the
Committee shares your objective in this regard and we will
be. working with you and the Department of Justice and others
to try and change the laws.to give a greater measure of
protection to the First Amendment rights of the American people!

“I have no further questions. Are there any other
questions. :

Sénator Mondale?

Senator Mondale. Mr, Adams, earlier, in inquiring about

the basis for investigating Dr. King, I thought I heard two
re justifications. One, suspicion and fear of Communist
influence or infiltration, And secondly, “that he constituted °
a threat to the success of the Negro movement.”

Did I understand that second basis?

Mr, Adams. No. The first I was talking about was not
suspicion but information indicating Communist influence.
The second was on this question of motivation that you raised,
I don't know what their motive was to get to some of these
other activities in ordsr to discredit and remove him, but it
was a question -- apparently, they must have felt that he
was a threat to either as shown in the files the President
and attorney General expressed concern about the civil rights

Movement and “his continued affiliation with some of these

people.

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 109



4 ota ine
8 1833
i
o 1
gsig as So -- ;
e g f Senator Mondale... Would you agree that it would not be
£ . - .
2 i a proper basis for an investigation for the FBI or any other
. 2 povsennene official to be concerned about the success of the
2 negro movement? beraticetaforteattacg
: In other words, that. is not a valid --
if Mr. Adams. I have no problem.
8 Senator Mondale. All right. So let us take the one
9 ground that appears to have justified the investigation of
10 Dr. King and thé investigation of the women's liberation
i dt movement -- the fear that "dangerous influences might
3 : 2
‘ 12 infiltrate thesé organizations."
a
e § 18 Suppose it'is true. Suppose that a Communist did
a have influence over Dr. King, or suppose an SDS member
15 infiltrated and became a dominant influence in a chapter of
16) the women's liberation movement and you established it as
‘171 2 gact. What would you do?
ss 18 Assuming that we can't get into this harassing and so
g :
& 19 on, you agree that that no longer has —_ validity. So what?
A 20 What do you have? :
2
E 21 Mr., Adams. We have potential violations which might
3 Re arise, which rarely come to fruition and haven't for many
5 23 years, but we do have an intelligence responsibility under
& ry , 7
@ 2 Ra the directives from ths President and the Attorney General. -
25 Tee is, with a revolutionary group,” like the Communist Party

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 110



re)
a

Phone (Area 203) 544-6000
w

10
11

12

WARD & PAUL

13
14
15
16
17
18

19

a1
22

23

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

24

25

20°

1834

has taken over control of a domestic group and ths Communist
Party is operated by the Soviet Union. We would furnish that
information as we do. Every copy of our reports goes to the
Department of Justice. | ; ww? : : oe

Sanator Mondale. -Right. But I just want to get the
King case because as I understood, he was being investigated
for the reason that it was feared that a communist or
Communists nee suspected of being Communists, or
known to be Communists, were gaining. influence over him.

Suppose you established that. What present use or
need is there for that information?

Mr. Adams. I feel that the President, the Attorney
General, the Executive Branch, needs = know the extent of
a foreign-directed Communist organization, its influence and
effect on the United States of America. ,

Senator Mondale, All right. So if such information
is valid and an. investigation to seek it are necessary, is
there any limit on the investigative authority of the FBI?

We have just heard about the women's liberation movement
where we were faarful that New Left, SDS types might have
an influence. That justified that investigation. We now
have your statement that we were fearful that some Communists
might have influence over Dr. King, and therefore, he was
thoroughly eee ial ' i

Are thare any limits.then on who can be investigated?

NW 65360 Doclid:32989543 Page 111



: p
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
o
wn

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
al
“22
23

R24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

1835

Mr, Adams, Well, the only limits are that we must
relate it toa statutory basis of one of the Presidential
guidelines we have or the criteria we have, which criteria
are receiving scrutiny at the present time by Congress, --They
hava in the past by the- Department of Justice, and this is the
area of guidelines. This whole area of domestic security is
what we need guidelines in. :

Senator Mondale. Right. And you would agree, we talked
about this earlier, that being a Communist is not a crime.

Mr, Adams. No, it has not been a crime.

Senator Mondale. So that thé whole basis for this has

. to apparently stem from a Presidential directive, you think

has‘ tasked you to do this.

Mr. Adams. Yes.

Senator Mondale. gust a few other points.

In 1970, 11/6/70, a ea from Newark to the Director
went forth proposing that the following telegram be sent:

"Word received. Food donated to party py anti-liberation
white pigs contained foteen. ‘symptoms: cramps, diarrhea,
severe stomach pains... Destroy all food donated for convention
suspected of poison.

“However, still ese to meét your quota. Signed,
Ministry of Information." : : .

And this was a telegram that was ‘to be sent from Oakland,

California to the Jersey City, New Jersey headquarters. The

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 112



NI
H

rey
a
Phone (Area 2027'544-6000

‘10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14

15

16

17

18,

19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

s

1836

.telegram went on further. It is suggested that the Bureau

then consider having the laboratory treat fruit, such as

oranges, with mild laxative type drug by hypodermic needle
or other appropriate method and ship fruit as a donation from
a fictitious person in Miami. to the Jersey City headquarters.

The answer then from the Director of the FBI:

"The Bureau cannot authorize the treating of fruit to
be shipped to Jersey City because of lack of control over the
treated raat in transit. However, Newarks's proposed
telegram regarding food collected for the Revolutionary
People's Constitutional Convention has merit."

How did you ever get to a point like that?

Mr, Adams. I don't know. What was the response from
Newark and then the final answer taken?

Senator Mondale. It was turned down because they
couldn't control transit, but they thought it was a good idea,

Do you think that's a good idea?

Mr. Adams. Wo, I don't. I think that --

Senator Mondale. How did we ever get to the point that
this kind of insane suggestion violating everyone's civil
liberties based on government-sponsored fraud? How does
anyoné éver consider something like that?

Mr. Adams. I don't know.

— Mondale. One final point.

When we interviewed one of your former employees, he

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Bage 113



Q
Phone (Area 20%4,544-6000
cy

pn)
ala:

12

WARD & PAUL

14
15
16
iy
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25

.

13,

1837

referred to something I never heard of before called a no-
contact lise. He did it jokingly because he said when the
Pope agreed to see Martin tuther. King, he was sure hé would be
put on. the no-contact list thereafter. : ane

Can you tell mé what.that list is?

Mr. Adams. Wot in any specific detail: I know that at
one time there ame there would be a list that if an agent
interviewed an individual and this individual created a storm
or a ruckus and we didn't want some other agent stumbling
out there and interviewing the same person: that we would make
sure that they were aware of the fact that further contacts
6£ this individual would result in a problem.

Senator Mondale. All right. Now on 6/24/71, ina
nem to Clyde Tolson, it refers toa conference on 8/26/71
with certain -- it looks like about 10 members of the FBI.

And this is what it says:

"Pursuant to your instruction, members of the conference
were briefed concerning: recent attempts by various newspapers
and reporters to obtain information about or from FBI
personnel. Members were specifically advised that there would
be absolutsly no conversations with or answers from any of
the representatives of the Washington" -- something. Oh here,

from the Washington Post, New York Times, Los Angeles Times,
& bussetes us see .

“eBsS and NBC.

"The only acceptable answer to such inquiries is no

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Page 114



KQ
a
p
Phone (Area 292) 544-6000

10
11
12

13

WARD & PAUL,

14
18
16
1?
18
19
20
al
“22
23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

25:

.Y

1838

comment."
Now Senator Huddleston sarlier asked about efforts to
influence newspapers and media outlet.

Does this trouble you, a decision not to answer questions
£rom certain selected media outlets?

Mx. Adams. It is not the policy today. I think this
has been’ aired in the past. There was a period of time .
wherein Mr. Hoover, in reacting to criticism from See of these}
newspaper men, where he felt he hadn't been given a fair
shake, or for some other reason, that he felt that they should
be told no comment, and he instructed they be told no comment.

The motivations I am not ina position to discuss, but
I can tell you that there has been no such policy in the
last several years that I know of. -

‘Senator Mondale. Ie you could submit for us, if you
can find it, the no-contact list, I would appreciate that.

I have some other questions I wild submit for the
record, Mr. Chairman.

The Chairman. Very well, I just have one final follow-up
question on Senator Mondalé's interrogation.

I continue to be somewhat fascinated by how long these

investigations go, and when, if ever, they are stopped.

Apparently they never come out of the files,.whatever is
6. : i

_ found. But Senator Mondale raised the point of a suspicion

that in the Martin Luther King case, an advisor, he was

NW 65360 Docld:32989543 Bage 115



gsh

Phone (Area 202),544-6000
°

10

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

al

22

2
3
3
8
&
8
a
¢
g
3
=
&
é
ES
W
a
3

23

24

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 116

1839

getting advics from a person who had or was thought to have
Communist leanings.

And so without using the Sener bgcause we are trying to
protect “privacy as we conduct’ this investigation -- oe]

z Mr. Adams. I think we have a little more problem than
that, too, Senator. — -

The chaizman. “I am just using a Mister X in place of
the name. What I am trying to. get at is when the Bureau,
what the eriteria is for pursuing an investigation, for
pursuing the matter, and this is the kind of a statement that
leaves'me so perplexed. This has to do with a reply to the
New vee office Bae Bureau hare in Washington.

-" the part I read to you is as follows:

"The Bureau does not agree with the expressed belief
of the New York office that Mr. X is not sympathetic to the
Party cause. While there may not be any direct evidence that
Mr. Xisa Communist, neither is there any substantial
evidence that he is anti-Communist."

And so the directions are to continue the investigation
of this matter. And in cases of this kind, do you pursue
the investigation until. you prove the negative?

ue. Adams. Wo. I believe in that particular case, if
it is the one I am thinking about, that there was evidence
that at one time he had ‘been a Communist and that there was

a. question of whether the office felt -- well, it's like we



a
Phone (Area 202] 544-6000
BH
a
wo

10°

11

12

13

WARD & PAUL

14
16
16

17

19
20
al
22

23

24

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, 0.C. 20003,

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 117

18°

1840

have had some situations alee a person mee out and publicly
disavows their former leanings,

Do you take them at words right away after they have
been ees in violent activities, or do you wait until
you determine that they really have carried through the dis-
avowed practice? :

: That's a gray area. This one seems like on the ‘wording
itself, would seem Like an extreme philosophy, leaning towards
averyons has to prove in the united States they are not
a Communist, and I can assure that is not a policy of the
Bureau and does not fit into the criteria of our genéral
investigative matters.

I just feel that thers is more to it than just that
brief paragraph.
The Chairman. That particular kind of philosophy has

kept up in our life from time to time. I remember during

the days of McCarthyism in this country, we came very close

to the point where people had to prove that they were: not
now or had never been a Communist in order to establish them-
selves as patriotic citizens.
: ue. Adams. That's right. what's true.
The Chairman. And when I see standards of this kind:
or criteria of this kind emerging, it iiirgl me very much.
I have no further questions. I want to thank you

both. If there-are no further. questions, I want to thank



ra)
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E,, Washington, D.C. 20003

12

1o

il

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

a1

22

23

24

25

NW 65360 Docid:32989543 Page 118
ce

1841

you both for your testimony this morning. It has. been very
helpful to the Committee, and the Committee will stand adjourned
until: 2:00.

We will stand adjourned in public session. Our next
public session will be 2:30 tomorrow afternoon for purposes
of press questioning on the assassination report.

(Whereupon, at 1:07 o'clock p.m., the Committes adjourned,

to reconvene at 2:30 o'clock p.m., Thursday, November 20,

1975.)

