File #:

az = /— iil 6
|

Serial Scope:

353, 376. 36/, 26h, 366 305 Li, 271 57 37a 7G

378 424

330 — 4G

332% HAS Tie ¥F/
Gog aae

385

390 THR 395 437

ee =
460

YoY THRU ¥O7
43 THRE fe

Levies

410

Wal
age 1 eeeeeeaaaaees i : :

"NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 1

fleleased under the Jann, i
fecardsCaleston stot Tanz aa Use a oF
el] Caseti Nw 6025 ;



FD-36 (Rev. 7-27276)

Cres?

TRANSMIT. VIA 2 ten eemebait CHEDENCE:
(© Teletype Immediate (© TOP SECRET om
(0 Facsimile (0 Priority ( SECRET ha Pors____
eq Airtel (2 Routine (© CONFIDENTIAL
OBFTO
CLEAR

of TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

Telephone Rm,

(ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, Director's Sec’
Cd RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION) i
FROM: SAC, ST. LOUIS (62-5097) (¢)

SUBJECT: Onouse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

ot fP
Re Bureau teletype to St. Louis, 2/10/78, captioned
as above.

:'_-Enelosed under separate cover for Headquarters
is a Xerox copy of each serial in SL 170-1767 and SL 170-1767
Sub A as was requested in retel. Also enclosed is destruction
memoranda concerning SL 1495-E (former) ihiicadunanibinead file.
Case closed in St. Louis.

AS Sy a)

fa. fas eaten scree
ager ©
@ Bureau

(1 - via package) ne 1)

2- St. Louis " see.
(1 62-5097) * - Grguesery S

ae ears telat ist ,
aeteatinn ELE 69-7490 ABH

(5)
124 m& FEB 15 197
EXI24 et

uy FFE on

Transmitted —__~ a a. Per
(Number) (Time)

IW 65360 Docld?339837 i T &E 4

Approved: ~
GPO : 1977 0 = 225-599


5s | ) eve

ala! _ : : of <. mort
oll TELETYPE 1 - Griniinal Investigative Division”
(Atin: J, E, McHale)
ROUTINE 1-Mr. G, 5, Foster
1-Mr.J.T. Alen ete
EFTO e & CAE
FM DIRECTOR (62-117290) ;
TO ST. LOUIS (ROUTINE) mx f
aa
EFTO j

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (BSCA)
REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ST, LOUIS DATED

y : 4
P yw ye
JANUARY 25, 1978; ST. LOUIS TELETYPES TO BUREAU JANUARY 27,

a

1978, AND JANUARY 31, 1978.
ON FEBRUARY 8, 1978, G, ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUN-
SEL AND DIRECTOR, HSCA, ADVISED HIS STAFF HAD CONTACTED

FORMER SL 1495-E, WHO HAS AGREED TO COOPERATE WITH wale

FOR BE I3Y-/9LES

¥

HSCA, ON FEBRUARY 9, 1978, STAFF ATTORNEY MICHAEL

f) @ EBERHARDT, HSCA, ADVISED THAT SL 1495-E HAS EXECUTED A

CERIERReD Cow,

& % SIGNED WAIVER AUTHORIZING HSCA ACCESS TO ALL FBI INFORMA -
S| ‘TION CONCERNING HIM, INCLUDING THAT PERTAINING TO HIS
ee eeonmane acres, "8 62-117 190733
Lg ; 22 FEB 18 1978
aan

a

SEE NOTE PAGE 3.

CO a
t
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

; | . d REO \9 5 1s wee SECTION
: , KEBOS 1978 °F
solraaaees a Re : wi eid &
SE mee an Mle - (RETYPE

. NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page3 _



sR

PAGE TWO EFTO 62-117290

‘ST, LOUIS PROMPTLY FURNISH FBIHQ ONE. XEROX COPY

OF EACH SERIAL IN INFORMANT'S MAIN FILE AND SUB A FILE
(170-1767) AND ONE COPY OF ANY VOUCHER OR DOCUMENT WHICH
CONCERNS ANY ASPECT OF SOURCE'S OPERATION AND ANY PAY-
MENT WHICH WAS MADE TO HIM, ADDITIONALLY, PROVIDE FBIHQ
WITH ONE COPY OF ANY MAIN FILE OR REFERENCE IN YOUR
OFFICE WHICH MAY BE IDENTIFIABLE WITH INFORMANT, @e

THIS MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER ante
TEL TO FBIHEADQUARTERS, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION. UPON RECEIPT AT
FBIHQ, THE MATERIAL WILL BE PROCESSED FOR ACCESS OF ‘STAFF
MEMBERS.OF HSCA, PROVIDED THE WAIVER DESCRIBED AS ABOVE
3S RECEIVED,
BT

a NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 4



init

PAGE THREE 62-117290 EFTO WaT VALICETE

NOTE: SL 1495-E (former) (Bureau file 1384-19686) was operated
from January, 1970, to approximately September, 1971,

primarily targeted against White Hate Groups. In 1971, he traveled
to Savannah, Georgia, at which time he reported on activities of the

: National States Rights Party office and that Jerry Ray, brother of
James Earl Ray, stated he knew there was another party involved in
the killing of King and that his brother was the one who pulled the
trigger. This is the apparent HSCA interest in informant.

Referenced communications concern previous informal

} requests by the HSCA that we contact SL 1495-E to determine if he
would be willing to be interviewed by the Committee. St. Louis con-
tacted informant on 1/27/78 and he agreed, but two days later submitted
a letter to St. Louis declining to be interviewed by the HSCA, Subse-
quently, the HSCA determined informant's identity through its investi-
gation and contacted him, at which time, according to the HSCA, he
agreed to interview. By letter to the Attorney General dated 1 /26/78,

| the HSCA has asked for all information at FBI Headquarters and in

\ the field concerning informant.

This matter has been coordinated with SA D, O, Coulson,
Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit, Legal Counsel Division,
and SA M, V. Hale, Top Echelon and Criminal Informant Unit, Criminal
Investigative Division.

yl 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 5



,

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA: PRECEDENCE: CLASSIFICATION: I
CO Teletype + CUImmediate CO TOP SECRET ~ I t
(Facsimile CO Priority (2) SECRET H a
¥ Alttel © Routine (2 CONFIDENTIAL ! 7
QDEFTO I
( CLEAR |
1
1

2/1/78

Date -

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)
(Attention: Congressional Inquiry Unit,
Records Management Division)

FROM ©: SAC, CHICAGO (62~7385) (C)

i)

q SUBJECT :—_HOUSE SELECT COMMETT
yO ON ASSASSINATIONS

. —----—-————————

EE

ReButelcall to Chicago 2/1/78.

: Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies each of ten
letters from JERRY RAY to MARJORIE LOUISE FETTERS.

All of the above letters were originally received
from the Newark Division in a Xeroxed condition thus the
quality of the above enclosures is not entirely satisfactory.

¢ However, per referenced Bureau telephone call, Chicago will

maintain the original Xerox copy in its file 44-1114.

Gok
eget? ge pre o6 \

"« Bureau (Encls. zag
1 « Chicago

WLD :jeo
(4)

Transmitted — — Per
(Number) (Time)



oa ¥
NOO14@ 98521352

RR HI
din 5 4°52 | PHOT
: Regelvens* wd
R 9521252 JAN 78 ; ee eer eal

- conMuMtGATjONS SECTION
FM NEW ORLEANS 66-2878) (RUC)

Yp/ DIRECTOR (62-117299) ROUTINE
we
Vor

EFTO ~

DE NO

Telephone Rm——— |,
Director's Sac'y-—— }-

OUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA); BUDED: JAN. 13,
19 78,

REBUTEL, DEC. 27, 1977.35"

1) SA STEPHEN M, CALLENDER OF THE NEW ORLEANS, DIVISION WAS
THE NEW ORLEANS FIELD OFFICE CASE AGENT ASSIGNED TO-THE "MURKIN™
INVESTIGATION, AT THE TIME SA CALLENDER WAS ASSIGNED THE “NURKIN™
CASE, HE WAS ASSIGNED TO THE NUMBER SIX SQUAD IN THE NEW ORLEANS
OFFICE. THIS SQUAD HANDLED CR, RACIAL AND RELATED MATTERS,
“MUR KIN" WAS UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF FORMER ASAC JOSEPH T.
SYLVESTER, JR. THE NATURE OF CALLENDER'S ASSIGNMENT ye 93 50

"igs (eos 62H 739A Z_

23 JAN 26 1978

ce SRR Se

AGTEK

Ta

ee ww aes

a 1 AEE

| an - ~~ copies made ego 3
“ mA * pce =

for reviey at FLIRQ by
ors} 230 BOE HSCA re. request.
NW 65366 Bocld: Cares Page ul (See Buf{1e #62-117290)



PAGE TWO NO 66-2878 EFTO
PRIOR TO HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE "MURKIN" INVESTIGATION WAS IN THE
FIELDS OF CR, RACIAL AND RELATED MATTERS.

II) THE FILES OF THE NEW ORLEANS OFFICE FAIL TO REVEAL THAT
THIS OFFICE EITHER CONSIDERED OR ENGAGED IN ANY COUNTERINTELLI-
GENCE (COIN TEL PRO) EFFORTS DIRECTED AGAINST KING OR THE SOUTHERN
” CHRIST IAN LEADER SHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC).

NEW ORLEANS FILES WHICH INVOLVE THE SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS
OF KING (NO 1@@~1688@) AND THE SCLC (NO 19@-16849) HAVE BEEN
THOROUGHLY REVIEWED, NEW ORLEANS WAS MERELY AN AUXILIARY OFFICE
IN THESE INVESTIGATIONS, WITH ATLANTA BEING THE 00, THE EXTENT
OF INVEST IGAT ION CONDUCTED BY NEW ORLEANS WAS THE COVERING OF
LEADS IN LA., SET FORTH BY ATLANTA OR OTHER OFFICES, THESE TwO
FILES WERE REVIEWED SERIAL BY SERIAL AND NOWHERE IS THERE ANY
IND IGAT ION WHERE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES WERE EITHER
CONSIDERED OR CARRIED OUT AGAINST KING OR THE SCLC BY THE NEW
ORLEANS OFFICE,

DIRING THE PERIOD OF 1965 - 1968, THE KING FILE IN THE NEW
ORLEANS OFFICE WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED AND THEN RUC'D AT LEAST
SEVEN TIMES AND THE SCLC FILE WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED AT LEAST
FIVE TIMES DUR ING THIS SAME PERIOD.

NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 8



PAGE THREE NO 66-2878 E FTO

AIR MAIL COPY SENT ATLANTA DIVISION.
BT

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 9°



A ae

wis laenatse-- © [see eat
0018 'G272150°° > x ; op De
RR-HO wd a Mam. cov

Grim. Inv-__/—

DE SL

Fin. & Pers——
Ident_————

Intell_—___—_—

R 2721452 JAN 78

; os 7
Jan 2/4 5p 28°18 Tagel Coun
Mi ST. LOUIS (62-5897) (C) nitiven Foe Mgnt
cn Even fre Ee
TO DARECTOR ROUTINE COMMUNICATIONS SECTION Tech Soe

| Public Aifs. Ott

‘Telophone Rot
Director's Sec’ Y—+

4

ya FT oO

ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RREORT
Geuse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCA)

RE BUREAU TEL TO ST. LOUIS, JANUARY 25, 1978, CAPTIO
ABOVE.

SL 1495-E (FORMER) CONTACTED THIS DATE. HE WAS ADVISED OF

HSCA'S EXISTENCE AND ITS DESIRE TO INTERVIEW HIM CONCERNING CONTENTS
OF LHM DATED MAY 28, 1971, CAPTIONED “NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,
RM - NSRP".

SOURCE (FORMER) WAS ADVISED THAT HSCA HAS INTRRVIEWED OTHER.
INDIVIDUALS IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER AND WILL BE ISSUING SUB

POENAS. INITIAL REACTION OF SOURCE WAS THAT HE HAD NO STRONG
JECTION TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY HSCA.

SOURCE (FORMER) WAS THEN ADVISED THAT CONFERENCES WITH HSCA

“aie RECSG GA-N 7D Z Z (2 4434

BE et Sa ete

~ SHGSTS ~Nilameagt>

Br naae om, Page 10



Pace Twio st 62-5097 E FT 0 _
“aD DOJ WOULD BE UNDEH®KEN TO WORK OUT DETAILS oO
CONFIDENT TALITY, LOCAT@SN AND SCOPE OF INTERVIEW 2%

IT IS NOTED THAT SOURCE (FORMER) UNDERWENT MAJOR HEART AND
ABDOMINAL SURGERY DURING OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER, 1977, IS CURRENTLY
RECOVERING AND UNDER DOCTOR'S CARE. HE RESIDES 12359 OLD HALLS
FERRY ROAD, FLORISSANT, MO., (314) 355-150% AND IS UNEMPLOYED.

By

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 11



&

LINITED OFFICIAL USE
<a day 3] 5 207A)
- PAGE 81 LONDON 91641 3 14893! eiteay
COMMUN:
ACTION EUR-12 stig say

Public Als. Off___
Telephone Rm __
Director's Sec'y___

INFO OCT-91 IS0-92 H-@i MCT-G1 JUSE-@8 FBIE-99 INR-07

L-83 /o25 Wo} . IAF

wen nnnnnn nnn ee -==-899858 3122092 /A1
R 3112642 JAN 78
/ FM AMEMBASSY LONDON =, © AD COVERE SSE J
TO SECSTATE waSkDc 2604)! uf _ot 20k
Jr
LIMITED OFFICIAL USE LONDON 91641 ZF 4
.EX-140 de.
Ee. 11652: N/A Sy
REC: 13 = 23
TAGS: PINR PDIP UK aA bra! lq ¢
SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION a2 - os 4
tes
, ‘ty FEB 2 1978 ,

REF: STATE 10886
AUG 2g Ber eeesicrs—

. FOR .H*-( OR ee BENNET) AND EUR/NE
A ivw

65360 Dodidz}Z$@2749 Page 12



1.  IN- ACCERD ANCE an PASSED ON TO THE «. OFFICE

THE REQUEST OF THE MUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON aSWASSIN- i
ATIONS FOR ACCESS TO BRITISH POLYCE RECORDS AND

KNOWLEDGEABLE PERSONS CONCERNED WITH THE ARREST OF

JANES EAREC RAY. WITHOUT THE COMMITTEE RESPONDING FIRST

TO THE QUESTIONS RAISED-PREVIOUSLY BY BRITISH OFFICIALS.

2. THE HOME OFFICE INFORMED THE EMBASSY ON JANUARY 26

THAT IT IS CONSULTING THE LONDON METROPOLITAN POLICE

ABOUT THE COMMITTEE’S REQUEST AND WILL LET US KNOW THE

OUTCOME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE,

BREW ST ER

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

NW65360 Docld:32989749 Page 13



Louis STOKES, oMto, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON BREYER, WC.
WAUTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

™ arent :
Select Committee on eissassinations
GS. Bouse of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

January 30, 1978°

The Honorable Griffin B.
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the invespfgation by this Committe:
into the death of Dr. Martin Luthery’King, Jr., a request was"
made by letter dated November 30, 1977, for FBI files relatin:
to Dr. King. These files included the following:

The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,
for the period January 1, 1967 through
‘May 1, 1968.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leader~
ship Conference for the period aad 1,
through May 1,

The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the
period January 1, 1968 through May 1, 1968.

The file on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr./Poor
People’s March aack Nw period December 1,
through May 1, gctl> REC.G La- JIVAGo -
All materials pertaining to Martin Luther King,..
dr., and the SCLC in the COINTELPRO file.
BLFEB 6 1978
We have been advised that all of the above files are
now available ord review by the Committee. comeuneieEBReEE!

: It is now requested, however, that the foregoing files,
except for the Memphis Sanitation Strike, be prepared for Ccom~
mittee review for the following extended dates:

Baltes GRV/ P20
ORIEIN -
59 FEB 141978 /

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page at



The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

®

January 30, 1978 : isa

han»

The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,
dr., for the periods: |

a. October'1, 1962:- December 31, 1966
b. May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

The main file on. the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference for the periods:

a. October 1, 1962 - December 31,: 1966
b. May 1,.1968 + April 1, 1969

The COMINFIL and COINTELPRO files as such relate
to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., for the periods:

a. October 1; 1962 - December 31. 1966
b. May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

The files on the Poor Peoples' March from May 1,
1968 to the closing date of this file.

. Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

‘appreciated.

Respectfully,

Ahh x Coadnen,

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

Danny O. Coulson

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 -Page-15. ~



Lovig sroKcs, ofl, cain
icuARDSON PREVER, Nes samuce (MBE. BHI
WALTER & FAUNTROF, Die STEWARAN, RIREY, CON,
“ Wonne anAriwalre DUNKE, CALIF, CHARLES THEE, NEOR
CHRISTOPHER 1, 0000, CONN. HamaLD 6. SAWYER, MICH.
HaroLo E. FORD, TEN.

Foro J. FITHIAN, IND.

NODERT W. EDGAR, PAL

(202) 225-4628

2

Select. Committee on Assassinations.
[DOs oemeeeeeteeneannneeememen eee nennenmenmatianel

GS. Mouse of Representatives
3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515)

t/3/7F

FEB 3 1978

of . 7
The Honorable Griffin B. Bell’
Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice
Washington, D.C. 20530

Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room ‘2113

‘Attention:

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this
Committee into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
it is requested that the FBI.provide the Committee with
photographs of all Atlanta agents assigned to the
security investigation of Dr. King during the period .
1967-68. To the extent possible, these photographs should
depict the agents involved as they appeared in 1967-1968
or as close thereto as possible. 5

Your prompt attention to this matter will be
greatly appreciated.

Sincerely,

fa lider Slabigy,

G. Robert Blakey |
Chief Counsel and Director

CB-VO7 APO

GRB:mej
€c: Mr. Danny 0. CoulsonFBZ.
EX-124 “_
ting 2-17 290 - ¥af
TREAT As @ FEB ® 1973
OR) &-1 10 At. _

fees ee :



ee TELETYPE
ROUTINE
EFTO 1/25/78
FM DIRECTOR 1 + Mr. Foster
1 - Criminal Intelligence Div.
TO ST. LOUIS (ROUTINE) : (Attn: Mr. J. E. McHale,

Jr.)
Br

e) EFTO
cesar @ nousE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS. (HSCA)

_- | REFERENCE ST. LOUIS AIRTEL AND LH TO BUREAU DATED
4

NAY 28, 197], CAPTIONED, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY, RUZ”

NSRP." ; a

. THE HSCA IS CURRENTLY CONDUCTING INVESTIGATION INTO THE
ail ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING,JR.’ IN THAT CONNECTION,
VARIOUS DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING REFERENCED COMMUNICATION, HAVE ;
BEEN MADE AVAILABLE FOR HSCA REVIEW. !
LJ
DIRECTOR, HSCA, ADVISED QHAT THE HSCA DESIRES 10 INTERVIEW THE cy
FBI INFORMANT WHO nog INFORMATION IN REFERENCED LM. §
FORM, CONTACTED AND ADVISED OF <e

THE HSCA'S INTEREST IN onan le abled ie far |
INFORMANT HAD ANY OBJECTIONS TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY

ON JANUARY 23, 1978; G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND

ay
a
N

BLAKEY REQUESTED THAT:

‘Sheers (7) , SEE NOTE PAGE 4 6 FEB 4 yy aot
1 - 134-19686 «© esurec} FEDERAL elena ESLSIOY
1 - 62-117290 COMMUNIGATIONS SECTION
JAN 25 i878
“ALL 2p S3z
E TELETYP
Fesning QF eh 141979 Z
Telephone Rm. = > = = A 1978 i A Rn o4 Co
Director's Sec’ MAILROOM [J'* TELETYPE UNIT \ « : REi708

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 17



PAGE TWO EFTO

REPRESENTATIVES OF THE HSCA.

INFORMANT IS SL ]495-E (FORMER), WHO WAS OPERATED FROM
JANUARY, j970, TO APPROXIMATELY SEPTEMBER J97]. INFORMANT
WAS PRIMARILY TARGETED AGAINST WHITE-HATE GROUPS AND WAS
SUBJECT OF BUREAU FILE 134-9686 AND ST. LOUIS FILE 70-1767.

ON JANUARY 24, 978, SUPERVISOR JAMES HAGGERTY DETERMINED
THAT INFORMANT IS LISTED IN THE CURRENT ST. LOUIS TELEPHONE
DIRECTORY AND THAT THERE HAS BEEN.NO CONTACT WITH INFORMANT
SINCE HE WAS CLOSED IN ]97].

ST. LOUIS PROMPTLY CONBAGE FORMER SL J495-E. ADVISE HIM
OF THE HSCA'S EXISTENCE, AND ITS DESIRE TO INTERVIEW HIM
APPARENTLY CONCERNING THE CONTENTS OF REFERENCED LHM.

ADVISE HIM THE HSCA HAS INTERVIEWED OTHER INDIVIDUALS IN
CONNECTION WITH REFERENCED LHM AND WILL BE ISSUING SUBPOENAS
IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER. DETERMINE AT THIS POINT ONLY
HIS INITIAL REACTION TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE HSCA. IF HE HAS NO OBJECTIONS TO AN INTERVIEW, HE
SHOULD BE TOLD THAT CONFERENCES WITH THE HSCA AND DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE WILL BE UNDERTAKEN TO WORK OUT ADDITIONAL DETAILS



|
|

LNW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 19

PAGE THREE EFTO

“THE HSCA IS WILLING TO EXTEND AS WELL AS DETAILS. REGARDING

REGARDING THE EXTENT OF PROTECTION AND CONFIDENTIALITY

THE LOCATION AND SCOPE OF INTERVIEW.

SUTEL RESULTS TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY
UNIT, RECORDS. MANAGEMENT DIVISION.
Br :



PAGE FOUR EFTO

NOTE The HSCA plans to submit a formal request regarding
this matter, but requested informant be contacted for his
initial reaction to interview. The Congressional Inquiry Unit,
Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and Mr, Robert L.
Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division,
agree this approach is best prior to continuing discussions

to resolve legal and other issues.

The apparent interest of the HSCA involves informant's
travel to Savannah, Georgia, in 1971 at which time he reported
on activities at the NSRP Office in Savannah, as set forth in
referenced communication. Informant reported that Jerry Ray,
brother of.James Earl Ray, and J. B. Stoner, National Chairman,
NSRP, were in the office when Jerry said that the FBI and he
knew there was another party involved in the killing of King
and that his brother was the one who pulled the trigger. The-
HSCA has requested FBI information on the NSRP, Stoner,
Jerry Ray and other individuals identified as being in attendance
in the NSRP Office in Savannah during that time. One of the
individuals present. Richard Geppert, was later developed
as an informant of the Springfield Office. Geppert has, been
interviewed by the HSGA and has furnished a signed statement
in which he gives authority for HSCA ‘review of all FBI
information conéerning him, including that pertaining to his ant
confidential relationship with the FBI.

This matter has been coordinated with Legal Liaison and

- Congressional Affairs Unit and the Greanized Crime Section,
Criminal Investigative Begs Division

32989749 Page 20

—



ous . Assoc. Dir.
_* : Dep. AD Adm
te A J Dep. AD Inv

owe 5 . Dit
| mios13 61499302 dm. Som
| RR ke Crim. Inv
ft f
DE WE HBTS ob so AM ony
. REL ENE,
(yf 4 99302 aN 7B ale attesaS ;
FM MEMPHIS (66-2197) (RUC) conta BECTON teem Sega
Training.
TO DIRECTOR (62-117298) Public Alls. Off —
Telephone Rm—— !
Br . Director's Sec'y- j
EFTO

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE

DIVISION, a
rouse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCA). BUDED
’ THE MURKIN INVESTIGATION WAS ASSIGNED TO SA JOE C, _—

HESTER, NOW RETIRED, ON APRIL 4, 1968, AND WAS REASSIG WED
TO SA BURL F, JOHNSON ON AUG. 1, 1977. THE MEMPHIS OFFICE

DID NOT HAVE A SQUAD BREAKDOWN AT THE TIME THE CASE WAS

ASSIGNED TO SA HESTER. SA HESTER WAS ASSIGNED GENERAL...

CRIMINAL WORK IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE ,

Seis no ennion or nausea Meee (LZ
IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE TIME THE MURKIN CASE WAS 22 JAN 31 1978
REASSIGNED TO HIM. ema ER

Yt Dhl

2. BYES. geo 5 .
wl uae CHS) forget thant

joo

4 4978 for review at FBIHQ by
zs) QFE FEB 1 . HSCA re. wis in request.
NW 65360 1d:32989749 Page 21 . {See Bufile #62-117290}



PAGE TWO. ME 62-2 is EFTO a

MEMPHIS FILE 199-4542 ENTITLED “ COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
PROGRAM, BLACK NATIONALIST HATE GROUPS, RACIAL MATTERS,"
WAS FIRST OPENED ON AUG. 28, 1967, AND ASSIGNED To SA
JOSEPH H, KEARNEY, JR., NOW RETIRED, UNTIL IT WAS REASSIGNED
TO SA HOWELL S, LOVE ON MARCH 7, 1968, IT REMAINED SO
ASSIGNED UNTIL IT WAS CLOSED ON MAY 1, 1971. MEMPHIS OFFICE
HaD 80 SQUAD BREAKDOWN DURING THE PERIOD 1965-68. IMMEDIATELY
PRIOR TO THE ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE, SA KEARNEY WAS INVOLVED
IN CIVIL RIGHTS AND SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATIONS, AND SA
LOWE WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL AND SECURITY MATTER
INVESTIGATIONS,

WEMPHIS FILE 100-4764 ENTITLED "NEW LEFT,
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM”, WAS OPENED ON MAY 15, 1968,
AND ASSIGNED TO LAWRENCE J. OLSON, IT WAS REASSIGNED To
SA BURL F. JOHNSON ON FEB, 29, 1971, AND REMAINED SO ASSIGNED
UNTIL IT WAS CLOSED ON APRIL 12, 1971. SA'S OLSON AND
JOHNSON WERE INVOLVED IN SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATIONS
INMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE.


PAGE THREE ME «o- EF TO @

"MEMPHIS FILE al@g-4046 ENTITLED "COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, :
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM” WAS ASSIGNED TO SA WILLIAM H.
LAWRENCE, NOW RETIRED, ON THE FOLLOWING OCCASIONS:

OPENED JULY 23, 1964, PLACED IN RUC STATUS APRIL 29,
1966; REOPENED AUG. 24, 1966, PLACED IN RUC STATUS AUG. 39,
1966; REOPENED MARCH 31, 1967, PLACED IN RUC STATUS JUNE 13,
1967; REOPENED OCT. 18, 1967, PLACED IN RUC STATUS DEC. 26,
1967. IT REMAINED IN RUC STATUS UNTIL DEC. 26, 1974,

SA LAWRENCE WAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTER
INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE
ON EACH OCCASION,

MEMPHIS FILE 157-576 ENTITLED "COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
PROGRAM, DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS" WAS FIRST OPENED ON
SEPT. 4, 1964, AND ASSIGNED TO SA WILLIAM H. LAWRENCE, AND
SWAS PLACED IN RUC STATUS ON JUNE 15, 1965, THIS CASE WAS
REOPENED JUNE 18, 1965, AND PLACED IN RUC STATUS ON SEPT. 9,
1965. IT WAS REOPENED JAN, 2, 1966, AND ASSIGNED To sa
LAWRENCE, IT WAS REASSIGNED TO SA MERRILL F. MC CLOUGHAN ON

JUNE 3, 1966, SA MC CLOUGHAN IS NOW RETIRED. IT WAS



e 6

PAGE FOUR ME 62-2197 EFTO

REASSIGNED TO SA ROBERT F, FITZPATRICK ON MAY 19, 1968, AND ‘ *
REMAINED SO ASSIGNED UNTIL IT WAS CLOSED ON NAY 1, 1971.
IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE, SA LAWRENCE
WAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTEC INVESTIGATIONS,
SA HILLIN WAS INVOLVED IN SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTER
INVESTIGATIONS, SA MC CLOUGHAN WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL MATTER
INVESTIGATION, AND SA FITZPATRICK WAS INVOLVED IN CIVIL
RIGHTS AND GENERAL CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS,

MEMPHIS FILE 190-4105 ENTITLED MMARTIN LUTHER KING,
IRey SECURITY MATTER - C" WAS OPENED ON JAN. 2, 1965, AND
ASSIGNED TO SA WILLIAM H, LAWRENCE, AND WAS SO ASSIGNED UNTIL
IT WAS CLOSED ON APRIL 11, 1968. SA LAWRENCE WAS ASSIGNED
SECURITY AND RACIAL MATTER INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR
TO ASSIGNMENT OF THIS CASE,

MEMPHIS FILE 157-166 ENTITLED “COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF
THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE” (COMINFIL SCLS)
IS - C, WAS FIRST OPENED IN THE MEMPHIS OFFICE ON SEPT. 26,
1961, IT WAS PLACED IN RUC STATUS AND RE-OPENED A NUMBER OF

360 _Docld:32989749 Page 24


a e
PAGE FIVE ME62-2197 EFTO ,
TIMES PRIOR TO PERIOD 1965-68. IT WAS OPENED AND ASSIGNED

DURING THIS PERIOD AS FOLLOWS:

If WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED TO SA JOSEPH H. KEARNEY,
JR., ON FOLLOWING OCCASIONS,

REOPENED JULY 12, 1965, PLACED IN RUC STATUS NOV. 17,
1965; REOPENED NOV, 17, 1965, PLACED IN RUC STATUS JAN. 31,
1966, REOPENED APRIL 29, 1966, PLACED IN RUC STATUS MAY 2%,
1966,

IT WAS REOPENED AND ASSIGNED TO SA HOWELL S. LOWE ON
THE FOLLOWING OCCASIONS:

REOPENED DEC, 19, 1967, PLACED IN RUC STATUS JULY 17,
1972.

SA KEARNEY WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL AND SECURITY MATTER
AND CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE
ASSIGNMENTS OF THIS CASE. SA LOWE WAS INVOLVED IN RACIAL
AND SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATIONS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE
ASSIGNMENTS OF THIS CASE.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 25


PAGE SIX. ME o-010 EFTO @

"4 REVIEW OF MEMPHIS COINTELPRO FILES AND FILES ON THE
SECURITY MATTER INVESTIGATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING,
UR., AND INTERNAL SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF SCLC REVEALED
NO INSTANCES WHERE COUNTER INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES WERE
EITHER CONSIDERED OR CARRIED OUT AGAINST KING AND THE SCLC.
BT

W 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 26

“.



Assoc, Dir.
Dep. AD Adm——
Dep. AD iny— |
Asst, Dir:———__
Adm. Serv
Crim. Inv.

080814 9052317
RR HQ

RR!

DE ce

Ja 5 6 25PHOTB

REC WE a

rosette ee
COMMUNICATIONS uy

R 9523172 JAN 78
MM CHICAGO (62/7385)
TO DIRECTOR
ar

EFTO

62-117296) ROUTINE

ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION
USE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA). BUDED JANUARY

|
REBUTEL, DECEMBER 27, is ;
CIA) MURKIN INVESTIGATION FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER,

13, 1978.

CHICAGO 44-1114.
B) CHICAGO CASE AGENT RENE J. DU MAINE ASSIGNED TO
ASAC SQUAD AS RELIEF SUPERVISOR - BANK ROBBERY COORDINATOR. ,
€2)A) (1) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER CHICAGO 1600-35356,

(2) TITLE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
iiher Bho L- 7. a9 0-4/8
(3) . A REVIEW OF THIS FILE REFLECTS THE FOLLOWING AGENTS

i

WERE CASE T TIGATION ON THE DATE: NDI CATED ¢
ER ASE AGENTS IN THIS INVESTIGATI HE DATES I i EP San 81 1973

JANUARY 7, 1965, CLAY M. BRADY, RUC JANUARY 24, 1965, eens

wd ws 4 it he:

nd,

Lae Sd ah ones

Lanes SEXROANSS.

. : ck _copies made pgo 13 1
- . . if. + Onde. L
reg pan tl fa yo for Fevieyay BOE
5 FEB 14 1978 HSCA re fz, request.

(See Bufiie #62-117290)

NW 652360 Docld:32989749- Page



“7 e 6 cae
PAGE TWO 08 62-7385 EFTO
REOPENED JANUARY 25, 1965 TO ROBERT F. BARRY, CLOSED MARCH 16,
1965, REOPENED MARCH 25, 1965 TO WILLIAM J. WHITE, RUC JULY
16, 1965, REOPENED JULY 19, 1965 TO CLAY M. BRADY, RUC AUGUST
2, 1965, REOPENED AUGUST 11, 1965 TO JOSEPH C. STANLEY, CLOSED
AUGUST 27, 1965, REOPENED SEPTEMBER 13, 1965 TO R. L. STROMBERG,
RUC SEPTEMBER 24, 1965, REOPENED OCTOBER 7, 1965 TO CLAY M.
RADY, REASSIGNED NOVEMBER 22, 1965 TO JOSEPH C. STANLEY WHO
CONTINUED AS CASE AGENT UNTIL AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN
LUTHER KING, JR. IN 1968. THIS CASE WAS MAINTAINED ON SECURITY
SQUAD NUMBER 5. THE NATURE OF THE ABOVE CASE AGENTS’ ASSIGNMENT
PRIOR TO THEIR INVOLVEMENT IN THE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR, SM - C
_ INVESTIGATION IS NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF

$4 JOSEPH C. STANLEY, WHO WAS CARRIED AS A RELIEF SUPERVISOR FOR
SECURITY SQUAD NUMBER 5. THE NATURE OF SA STANLEY'S WORK IS
NOT AVAILABLE IN cHICAGO.

(2) ®) (1) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER CHICAGO 1095-16238,

(2) TITLE: COMINFILE, SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP
CONFERENCE (SCLC), IS - C.

(3) A REVIEW OF THIS FILE REFLECTS THE CASE WAS ASSIGNED

TO SA JOHN P. O*BRIEN, UNTIL OCTOBER 12, 1965, WHEN IT WAS



wo  @ +

PAGE THREE CG 62+7385 EFTO

REASSIGNED TO SA JOSEPH C. STANLEY THROUGH 1968, SA STANLEY
WAS CARRIED AS A RELIEF SUPERVISOR FOR SECURITY SQUAD NUMBER 5
UNTIL FEBRUARY, 1968 WHEN HE WAS DELETED. THE EXACT NATURE

OF SA STANLEY’S WORK IS NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO.

(2) (C) (1) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER CHICAGO !@@-32864.

- (2) TITLE: COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
PROGRAM, IS - C.

(3) A REVIEWW OF THIS FILE REFLECTS THE FOLLOWING AGENTS
WERE CASE AGENTS IN THIS INVESTIGATION:

HERBERT Ke STALLINGS UNTIL APRIL 22, 1965, REASSIGNED TO
GENE E. ARNOLD UNTIL APRIL 27, 1967, REASSIGNED TO ROBERT 0.
MURPHY THROUGH 1968. ALL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS WERE
MAINTAINED ON SECURITY SQUAD NUMBER 2. THE SECTION, SQUAD OF
ASSIGNMENT, AND THE NATURE OF THE ABOVE AGENTS" ASSIGNMENT
| IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THEIR INVOLVEMENT IN THIS INVESTIGATION
Is NOT AVAILABLE IN CHICAGO.

(2) @) A REVIEW OF ALL OTHER COINTELPRO INVESTIGATIONS
CONDUCTED BY CHICAGO FAILS TO INDICATE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
® THE SQLC WERE EVER MENTIONED IN THESE FILES OR TARGETS UNDER
THESE PROGRAMS.

, BT

WV 65360 _Docid:32989749 Page 29


touts SioKes, om, cttarmaaatt @

Select Commitice on & inations eeuaen 7

CES. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

Z /Y : : WASHINGYON, D.C, 20515

//3b/ 78 : January 26; 1978
; ; :

(202) 225-4524

The Nonorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

+ Attention: Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with this Committee's investigation of
the circumstances surrounding the assassination of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., we would appreciate your assistance in
obtaining access to any files or records in the possession
of the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, relating to the individuals and organizations
noted below: : :

: A. With respect to the’ Drug Enforcement Administration: é

I) :Charies J oseph Stein
7 Date of Birth: 5/11/29 : ‘
FBI Number: 881-534-B _—

2) Anthony Charles DeCarvelho . ast
Born: 1921
Residence: New Orleans

B. With respect to the Federal Bureau of “Investigation:

1) Jack Brown i
Chattanooga, Tennessee BRM 72FO

2) Lester recfkdds. REC. B37. om 1~
Date of Birth: 2/23/45 C2 19 2¢2 fete
S.S.N.:  410-78~-8096 eeaee o

2165 ox 2155 Clarksdale _ 23° FEB 2 1978

Memphis, Tennessee : —|

if 7 i 3) Munter Pitts O'Dell -
O16 INET New Oxleans, Louisiana
BT PEE ACR eee a 4

_NW 65369 Docld:47a89749, Page 30



~
The Hlonoxabli@
- January 26, ——

‘Page 2
4)
5)

6)

7)
8)
9)

10)

11)

12)

“13)
14)

15)

16).

17)

360 Décid:32985749 Pagé 31 “*"

wiffin B. Bell. @

Earnest Donnell
Denham Springs, Louisiana

Robert. DePugh, Norborne, Missouri
Head of the Minutemen organization

Sidney Barnes
1378 East Riviera Drive
Mobile, Alabama (1968)

‘Maxey Ted" 7
New Orleans, Louisiana

Eddie Sopcjack l
Date of Birth: 8/14/29
FBI Number; 186-485A

Thomas Tarfants

Samuel Caccamechi
Memphis, Tennessee

Robert Hood Stradex
‘Lexington, Illinois -

Raymond Starhs

King David Apartments, apt. 1
2816 David Drive
Metairie, Louis ana (1968)

Jerome Conforto
New Orleans, Louisiana

Joseph Conforto
New Orleans, Louisiana (now deceased)

Leonard Scott DelMonte
1229 North Bronson Street
Los. Angeles, California 7

Allan 0. Thompson
Date of Birth: 12/25/13

Dx. Russell C. Hadley
Date of Birth: 8/18/09
96 Moscoy Road -

Monte Rio, California



The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
January 26, 1978

Fage 3
18)
19)

20)

21)

22)

23)

26)
27)
28)

29)

30),

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 32 Spee

James E. Morrison

_ Los Angeles, California

Dr. Mark O. Freeman
Beverly Hills, California

Charles Calvin Bookman
Date of Birth: 9/6/13
FBI Number: 892-355

Rodney Arvidson

- Date of Birth: 1/19/23

Post Office Box 2820
Long Beach, California

Tomas Reyes Lau
Date of Birth: 10/5/23
2047 Lemoyne

Los Angeles, California

Roy Emory Hargraves

"Bl Monte, California

Raymond M. Murphy, aka "Fido"
Los Angeles, California

Lee Wilkinson
Los Angeles, California

Roman Kohnke
Los Angeles, California

Paul Lyon
Los Angeles, California

Jeri Salkin
Los Angeles, California

Ronald G. Hewitson
Garden Grove, California

Pat Olson
Date of Birth: 7/21/42
Quantico, Virginia



The Nonorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978
_Page 4

31) Robert Taylor, aka Bob Vaylor
Los Angeles, California

32) Ronald Dennino
aka Ronald Gerald: Dennino
. Inmate at California State Prison
at San Quentin (1967 - 1968)

33) Richard Gonzales
Los Angeles, California

34) Roderic Burns Duff
7 Monrovia, California
1968 President of Los Angeles orc
_ o£ Citizens Council of America

35) R. J. Weiler
Los Angeles, California

36) Elizabeth Ann De Rouen
: Date of Birth:

Los Angeles, California

37) Debbie Gold : ‘7
Los Angeles, California

38) * David Gregory
Buena Park, California

39) Rev. xavier Von Koss
Hermora Beach, California

40) Robext Harold Gray
Los Angeles, California

41) Robert Keéley
7 Los Angeles, California

42) William Kk. Shearer
aka Bill Shearer
3166 Palw
Lemmon Grove, California

43) Robert Walters
Los. Angeles, California

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 33



———— Oe

Page 5

44)

46)

47)

| 48)

49)

50)

%* "une Monorable Griffin B.. Bell
January 26, 1978

45)

George Manum
Los Angeles, California

Robert J. Roe
Beverly Hills, California

Pamela Dillon
Los Angeles, California

Frank Marullo
New Orleans, Louisiana

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on
Ku Klux Klan for the cities of Jacksonville

and Miami, Florida for the period 1966

through 1968.

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on

"the following organizations for the period

1966 through 1968 for the cities of New
Orleans, Louisiana; Birmingham, Alabama;

- Memphis, Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois;

Atlanta, Georgia; Los Angeles, California;

_and the State of Mississippi:

a) Black Panthers

b) Black Muslims

c) American Nazi Party:

da) _ Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee

Subfiles and/or investigative reports for
the period 1966 ~ 1968 for the following
organizations:

:* a)’ Liberty Lobby
b) The Sword
c) The Fiery Cross
““@) The White Camelia
e) Whe Silver Dollar Group

Your prompt ‘cooperation will be most appreciated,

gine
Cc

Very truly yours,

Fb (lobe Ceabrs,.

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director

Danny Coulson
NW 65360 ) Docld: 32989749 Page 34



1/18/78

” AIRTEL

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

hey

FROM g ACTING LEGAT, LONDON (62-604) (P) 7 Pt
CHE Skener dinrad 778 ON ASSAS VATIEYS
SUBJECT: JAMES EARL RAY, aka;
ET AL

CONSPIRACY TO VIOLATE UNLAWFUL
FLIGHT TO AVOID CONFINEMENT ~- ESCAPE

ReLONlet 11/16/77.

Enclosed for information is a copy of an incoming
telegram the American Embassy, London, received from
Department of State on 1/14/78, and copy of Legat, London
letter to the British Home Office dated 1/18/78.

Further pertinent information will be furnished
when available.

“Pniesins

C2- Bureau (Encs. 2)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit
1 - London

RAK:ejg -
(4)
63-7" (0-
x LoSpap
“) FEB OY i978
it pacer
HOFER LONE ~ amass SF HOSATE

W 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 35

|

ore

=
od
=



Your Ref.: : London, W1A .1AE

PY, an STATES ae Bovis
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Pleaso Reforto : | Office of Legal Attache
FileNo. 62-604 - American Embassy
Grosvenor Square

January 18, 1978

Mr. G. L.'’Angel_
British Home Office
G-4 Division

Queen Anne's Gate
London, S.W. 1

‘Rer Request from House Select Committee on
Assassinations to Meet with British
Police Authorities Eat -

Dear Mr. Angel:

By way of background, the House Select Committee
‘on Assassinations, - “as authorized by the U. S. House of
‘Representatives, is investigating the circumstances surround-
ing the murders. of President J. F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr.

The Chief Counsel and Staff pirector requested con-
tact be made with appropriate officials in the British Govern-
ment to obtain authority to interview appropriate police
officials who were involved in the arrest of James Earl Ray
in London on June 8, 1968.

‘Assistant Legal Attache Dennis Dickson had contact
with you on December 6, 1977. regarding this matter. At that
__ time | you requested the following:

ars
-A) “Purpose or scope of Anquiry;,

. B) ‘Names of individuals “to be interviewed and
* . reasons therefor;

jocid:32989749 Page 36 |



SSS]

4

|
|

\_NIAF65260—Deeld:32989749--Page 37. :

i €) Intended use of results of inquiry, i.e.,
public hearings, etc., it being noted that
any records maintained by the British police
would be as the result of an official inquiry

and this would normally be available for police
! use only, unless otherwise exempted by the

British Government.

The Select Committee responded that due to the
brevity of the 95th Congress, it was most important that
representatives of the Select Committee be allowed to meet
with appropriate members of New Scotland Yard who are
knowledgeable about the KING-RAY investigation. The Com-_
mittee advised they would be happy to meet personally with

British Government officials in London to provide answers

to the issues forwarded to them for clarification arid
elucidation.

I would be most appreciative if you wonld advise
if this situation is agreeable ‘to you.

Sincerely,

Dennis R. Dickson
Acting. Legal. Attache



t

TE ELA 6 30
# rom, S Ss SPP os

no: J OF FE

—S-WNNIVY HG B83EHV 219
RR RUDTC
DE RUEHC #9886 9140951

-R 14922 JAN 78

=FM SECSTATE wASHDC

“fQ AMEMBASSY LONDON’ 10 ee
iBT... - eesti a

LIMITED CFFICIAL USE STATE 919886

E.O. 11652 N/A ele com

TAGS PINR, PDIP, ux

INA -
: SUBJECT REQUEST FROM HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASS
TIONS TO WEET WITH BRITISH i atabc AUTHORITIES

Lae LONDON 20483: -

ASSISTANT SECRETARY BENNET “yas RECEIVED THE FOLLOWING LET- -
TER FROM G. ROBERT BLAKEY , CHIEF COUNSEL ‘AND DIRECTOR , SE-
LECT COMMITTEE - OW. assassliaTToNs eure : Meanie HR. SECRE -

TELEGRAM FROM AMBASSADOR BREWSTER

= | tes YOU KNOW, THE LIFE OF THE SELECT CONMITTEE Is LIMGTED TO

B THE LIFE OF THE 95TH CONGRESS. IT IS THEREFORE IMPERATIVE -
THAT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE BE ALLOWED TO
MEET ,AT THE EARLIEST POSSIBLE MOWENT , WITH RESPONSIBLE MEM - /
BERS OF NEW SCOTLAND YARD WHO ARE KNOWLED GEABLE ABOUT ITS
PARTICIPATION IN THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF DR.
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. THE RESULTING CAPTURE OF JAMES : ‘i
<“IEARL RAY IN LONDON ON JUNE 8, 1968 AND ANY FURTHER INVESTI-
“|GATION FOLLOWING HIS CAPTURE. WE WILL BE HAPPY, TO .MEET WiTH

THOSE REPRESENTATIVES IN GREAT BRITAIN TO PROVIDE ANSWERS
TO‘THE QUESTIONS RAISED BY AMBASSADOR BREWSTER“S TELEGRAM.

AGAIN, WE EMPHASIZE THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE AND WOULD
JAPPRECLATE YOUR ARRANGING FOR SUCH A MEETING aS SOON. AS
|POSSIBL. E, VERY TRULY YOURS, G, ROBERT BLAKEY.” END QUOTE.

CAN EMBASSY ASCERTAIN WHETHER THE BRITISH AUTHORITIES. WILL
PBnonosuns |

- NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page3s ‘ G2- M9290 He arene



eer AN-INTERVIEW BETWEEN MEMEBERS OF THE STAFF OF THE =
V Teter cap

MITTEE aND APPROPRIATE OFFICTALa™ HHO PARTICIPATED -
(om {IN 1.2 INVES om MENTIONED IN BLAgSek LETTER AND .
3 ADVISE us@ RAC, : wo - :

| sos LISVTED GFFIGIAL ge
| :

2989749 Page 39



ie Seem m ORD ERERERIEGAAE IERIE SS aaa
| . : a4 * : e wide 7 e a 2 inl
e oe e :

Assistant Attorney General VERNMERT
Criminal Division Saeed January 25, 1978
Attention: Hr. Robert L. Keuch
Director, FBI FEDERAL GOVERNESS 1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

DSS HOUSE OF HE RSSENBARIVES CHSCRY

es :

QC; Refevence is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,. dated
December 13, 1977, which requested, in connection with the :

HSCA's investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther
King, dr., certain information concerning identities of FBI
agents assigned to the PBI's assassination investigation and
to counterintelligence efforts. against King. ,

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum
in response to the above request. It is requested that you
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.
Enclosures ~ 2

yy 1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) 1
474 Fi
JUdxisas i L
ue (6) Dy? SEE NOTE PAGE TWO —

A

-2_NICLOSURE

Assoc. Dir, ——
Dep. AD Adm. —
Dep. AD Inv. —

JAN 25 1978

Eat FEB ter,

Director's See’ vO fe ROOM (7)
NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 40



es 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 41

-and Director, HSCA, has advised SA D. 0. Coulson of Legal:

_that, in absence of an overriding need "to do otherwise, the HSCA

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert Ls Keuch

NOTE: By teletype dated 12/27/77, field offices designated
by the HSCA were advised of the contents of the HSCA letter
of 12/13/77. Responses have been received. Rather than
incorporate the voluminous results into a letter to the _
Committee, it 1s more practical to make available for HSCA
access at FBIHQ incoming field office teletypes.

It should be noted that, under current operating
procedures existing between the Department of Justice and the
HSCA, disclosure of these agents'identities to the HSCA can-
not be prevented. However, G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel

Liaison and Gongressional Affairs Unit, Legal Counsel Division,
will not publish the names of any agent personnel below the
position of section chief. This policy would follow precedent

of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligencé’ which issued its
report in 1976.

sett oe



ee x) oe x) :

1- Mr. Foster
1 - Legal Counsel Div.
(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

January 25, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 13, 1977, which requested, in connection with the
HSCA'ts investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther
King, Jr., certain information concerning identities of FBI
agents assigned to the FBI's assassination investigation and
to counterintelligence efforts. against King.

In response to the above request, the following
information is submitted:

7 On December 19, 1977, Mr. Robert L. Keuch, Deputy
Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, advised that

the Department of Justice would respond to Part A, Items 1
. and 2 and Part B, Items 1 and 2, of the above request.

Regarding Part A, Item 3 and Part B, Item 3, the
FBI field offices designated by the HSCA were requested to
See provide the information desired by the HSCA. Responses from
. these field offices have been received and copies of these
documents are available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.

With respect to Part A, Item 4, a review of FBI
Headquarters indices disclosed no memoranda, records; documents
and news releases generated by the FBI in connection with the
MURKIN investigation, other than that contained in the MURKIN
Sf: Aes which has already been made available to the HSCA..
‘sy aata: sas
om. Avion (6) DAD SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Asst. Din

Adm. Serve =

Labor —— = : 7 aaa . :
‘ser — Wielee 5
" ee waioasaie Seid 7
ites S

ENCLOSURE
cog ree .
omens sere ne RooMC] = TELETYPE UNIT C) ¢ 2 i / / 2? 29 3 f / / vey

Fei/po.
NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 42



Ir
b

)

Nourse Select Committee on Assassinations

In response to Part B, Iten 4, 4¢ should be noted
that USCA request of November 30, 1977, asked for all PBI
material pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Southern
Christien Leadership Conference (SCLO) in the FBI's Counter~
intelligence Program (COINTELPRO) file. Dy letter dated
January 11, 1978, you were advised that representatives of the
HSCA arreed to limit its request to COINTELPRO files involving
the Communist Party USA and Black Nationalist-late Groups and to
limit the period of NSCA interest from Janyary 1, 1967, to Nay 1,
1968. €n January 23, 1978, Staff Attorney Michrei LDberhardt
Yeiterated that the ESCA's interest is that period rather than
the years 1965-1968 as set forth in the request of December 13,
1977. The above-rentioned COINTZLPRO files and files of the
King and SCLC security investigations from January 1, 1967, to
Hay 1, 1968, havé been prepared for HSCA access. Therefore,
based on knowledge of personnel of the Conrressional Inquiry
Unit processing TSCA requests regarding King, all material at Fret
Headquarters; which may contain COINTELPRO-type activities
against King and SCLC during the period January 1, 1967, to
Hay 1, 1968, has been madé available to the ESCA.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/25/78,
captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House
of Representatives (HSCA).." :

bow 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 43 ~ Bo.


LOUIS STOKES, O10, CHAIRMAN

g

* (202) 225.4624" ~

“H jeer Snes concn ait
see fe get a3 tl

a SPP?..:

‘The: Honorable Griffin:B. Bell 2. =
Attorney General of the, United States,

Department of Justice

Washington, D..G. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch : : cae
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General: ‘ 7 ‘ - . a

: In connection with the investigation by. this Committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, dx., it is requested
that the Department of Justice and the Federal pores of
“Investigation provide the following: -

“AL MURKIN investigation "

1. oR list of all Department of Justice attorneys who
participated in any way in the direction or management of .
. the,.MURKIN investigation andthe Division and Section within . °°
"4 the Department of Justice where these attorneys were a |
assigned; : os

2. Copies of all memoranda, records, documents, and~
news releases generated by the Department of Justice in
| connection with MURKIN investigation exclusive of what is.
| contained in the MURKIN file already provided to the Committee;

. 3. A list of the field office case agents assigned to
the MURKIN investigation for the following cities, with a’
designation as to the nature of each agent's assignment
immediately prior to his involvement in the MURKIN investi-

7 gation: o .
Atlanta 7 Menphis
* Chicago New Orleans
St. Louis. Los. Angeles
Birmingham : Miemi

This information should include the type of division, séction
and squad to.which each case agent was assigned.

TA ay be 1702.92 4nd

: UTR. 2ag
|. NW 65360 Docletrnelrds® Patya)aa . ERCLOSURE



4. Copfs of all memoxanda ,. recs. documents and
news xeleaseS generated by the Federal

in connection with the MURKIN investigation exclusive of
what is contained in the MURKIN. file already provided to

the “Committee.

B. ‘COINTELPRO

1. A list of all Department of Justice attorneys who
were in receipt of any information concerning. the COINTELPRO
activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as such <
were directed at Dr. King or a SCLC during the period 1965

: through 1968.

‘2, Copies of all Nedaalaee records and documents

_ generated by the Department of Justice in connection with, the

COINTELPRO activities of the FBI as such were directed at
Dr. King or the a during the period 1965, through. 1968.

3. A list of the field. office case agents assigned to
the COINTELPRO efforts directed at Dr. King or the SCLC during

"1965 to 1968 from the following “cities, - with a -designation

as to the nature _ each agent! s actual assignment ‘during.
that period:'”

Atlanta : Memphis : Louisville
Chicago | “. " New Orleans

St. Louis |. Los Angeles aaeeR ae
Birmingham . : Miami .

This information should include the type of division, section
and squad to which each case agent was assigned. -

4. Copies of all memoranda, xecords and document's .
generated by the FBI in connection with the COINTELPRO efforts
directed at Dr. King or the SCLC during the period 1965 to

, 1968 which are not’ coritained in the files requested by

Committee letter dated November 30, 1977.

Your prompt attention to this matter -will be greatly
appreciated . :

Very truly yours,

2 7 hea Gon,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and pirector
GRB:mea :
cc Mr. Danny O. Coulson

nw 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 45

uxeau of Investigation -



Select Committee on Alasassinations gy Us e™
G.S. Wonse of Representatives - 4] 29 | 1

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX2
. WASHINGTON, D.C, 20585

RoneRT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

January 17, 1978

manis wove
The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
C) Attorney General of the United States

Départment of Justice
Washington, D. C. .20530

Attention: Mr, Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General.
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation of the House
Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., it would be appreciated if you could
‘make available to the Committee staff access to the following:

1. All files, materials and information including,
but not limited to, intelligence and security
materials relating to the following organiza-

a : tions active in California for 1967-1969:

a) John Birch Society : Vis
b) American Independent Party -
c) Géorge Wallace Campaign

2. All files, materials and information, including,
but not limited to, intelligence, surveillance
and security materials for 1967-1968 pertaining
to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and his activi-
ties in California.

Your prompt attention to the rogue will be greatly

appreciated. 2 y) tl 224» ~ a ~o 73

: REC-65
TREAT AS ePecttuy, ee, RECORDED
OR 1EINAL - ; S JAN 37
: ¢ WA ee BQ, 0 L 1978

7 : G. Robert Blakey : =
Chief Counsel and Director
rok: : GAM TFG O .
cc: ” 4078 O. Coulson

5 TFEBT, 978

NW pa Dockd:32bdehH9 Page 46_
AW 09500 Vocid:s2ao NAS Page



., NW 65360 Docld: 32989749 age at

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division - October 31, 1977

At : - - >
tention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch 1 - ‘Mr. Monahan

1 - Mr. Peelman
Director, FBI 1 - Mr. Foster.
6 . : 1 - Mr. McGirl “
( HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS 1 - Mr. Mintz (attn:
U. 8. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA) ie Conese)
pce

Reference is made to a letter dated October 20, 1977,°
to Robert L. Keuch, Deputy Assistant. Attorney General,
Criminal Division, from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and
Director, HSCA. This letter requests all information in
possession of the FBI to include the current FBI Identification
Division record relative to William. Herman Jackson.

Based on information furnished by the Committee,
retrievable information identifiable with Jackson has been
prepared for Committee access subject to the usual excisions f/
and deletions. This material is available to the Committee in
Room 8988 of the J. Edgar Hoover Building. ft

Enclosed are original and two copies of a memorandum
which responds to this HSCA request. You are requested to
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.
nclosures = 3
JTM:sas. (8)

2

A
e K SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

NO og LD 112070 = 98
Ps) 8

ys ; :
oe Hy
si “ aid ra, Hae ee coe

\

Poblle Affe OFF. Me ne a

Bop, AD iy Sam — Trainin:
wee

SUA

ae Ae Al APPROVED! Adm. Pease Legal ~<v

A Crim, Inv. Plan, & tnsp.
tee ige « Kk Director. Fin. & Pers Ree, Bgnt__a 4
Baas: . Assoc, Dir Ident. Spec, i
= |____ Tach, Servs. :
Te Serv Dep. AD Adm Intel 1
Training 7

g—____
Peblic Affs, Off.

+4) FBI/DOS

os


Assistant Attorney General
triminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: This responds to a request by HSCA for information
contained in the Bureau's files relative to William Herman
Jackson. This matter has been coordinated with the Legal.
Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit, Legal Counsel Division,
and retrievable documents in FBI Headquarters files, which are
identifiable with Jackson, have been organized into folders for
the Committee's access and are maintained in the Congressional
Inquiry Unit's space, Room 8988.

Documents retrieved from FBI Headquarters files include
Jackson's current ident record, the results of an FBI investigation
wheréin Jackson was one of four subjects - captioned
"Leslie Atkisons, aka, Et Al; Miscellaneous - Falsely Making
or Forging Naval, Military or Official Pass," two references re
a Foreign Police Cooperation Matter and two references re a2
Perjury Matter.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 48



1 - Mr. Monahari anes
a - 1 - Mr. Peelman

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. McGirl

1 - Mr. Mintz (Attn:

October 31, 1977 Mr. Coulson)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Hsca)

RE: OCTOBER 20, 1977, REQUEST oF ESCA FOR 7
INFORMATION IN POSSESSION OF THE FBI TO
INCLUDE A CURRENT BBE IDENTIFICATION

_ DIVISION RECORD RELATIVE TO
‘WELLIAM HERMAN JACKSON.

This constitutes a complete response to the -
October 20, 1977, letter of G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
and Director, HSCA.

Chief Counsel Blakey requested ali FBI information
as well as a current FBI Identification Division record
relative to William Herman Jackson.

Utilizing identifying data for Jackson furnished by
the HSCA, retriévable information in FBI Headquarters files
identifiable with Jackson has been prepared for the Committee's

cess subject. to the usual exeisions and deletions..

oTM: 18359)

ORIGINAL AND TWO SENT TO-MR. ROBERT L.’ KEUCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT
ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, ed

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 10/31/77;
captioned, “House Select Committee on Assassinations , U. Ss.

House of Representatives (HSCA).
PONS __ :
AdmServ_—___ Lege! Coun. fi

Assoc. Bits

Crim ‘tiv Pam. & Insp, 2 f
“Director Fin. & Pers___: Ree, “Mgnt -
Assoc. Dir—— Identi_ Spoo. Inv. wi +

Bap. AD At - Intell. * Tech.:Servs.__-_
Dep. AD: Inv. Laboratory. Tralning__
Public Affs. Off_—

seers TG) gooey
erat aban Ria ENCEOSURY
MAIL ROOM

Ditector’s Secty — TELETYPE UNIT [ —~

Asst Din
Ado. Sore
Chin, Inve = APPROVED!

FBI/DOS

W 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 49. _



ee

HAROLD 5, SAWYER, MICH.” ect
:  gpelect Conuittee on As? “sinations

any eas G: &. Mouse of Representatives
: 3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2. -
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

‘

we

_ October 20, 1977

Robert L. Keuch, Esq.
Deputy Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Room 2113
; Department of Justice 7
+ Washington, D. C. . 20530.”

Dear. Mr. Keuch:

The Select committee « on Assassinations woula appre t
‘ any and all information as well. as: a current FBI Identifi:
: qeeug. Cation Division record check relative.to William Herman
toedeiat ecaeeaetiae EBI deer edd ‘D.O.B. 11/24/26. ;

“very: truly ‘yours, 7

FEE : le a Ge oe Blakey .- :
: : Chief ‘Counsel aaa Director

GRB/ENE/nae

+ ees “Mr. Danny 0. Coulson
: Special Agent :
. Federal Bureau.of Tnvestigation
. G. Edgar.Hoover Building -
LOth and Constitution Avenue; N
Room ‘3659 :
aeceatil D. Ce 20530 |

fet toe x6 /0 cee
o-Bt- caeeees
Jim vaaee Ere 3°



Jan : >
eo : : 7 1 - Mr. Long - Bnd.

Bete rete 1 - Mr. Foster - EXc.
SEDER : I - Mr. Mintz - Enc.
2- Mr. Hotis - Enc.

Phe Deputy Attorney General A “7+ Decenber 29, 1977

Director, FBI
a oe SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS : ‘

In. accordance with Attorney General. Order
116-56, this memorandum advises that Special agent Ni
“| Willian P, Kasch was interviewed on Hovember 16, 1977. im
A memorandum Setting forth Mr. Kusch's agcount of this -
interview is enclosed for your information. ‘

wot

Enclosure

4

}
|
pd

1 - Assistant Attorney General ~ Enclosure
Criminal Division
Attn: Robert Keuch

1 - Personnel. file ~ William F. Kusch - Enclosure i vat

My pices 2/17 a

hy

23 JAN 81 1978

Apphovebr "77 Adm, Serv__>
Ciim. Inv

Director_____— ine & Pers.——
Asses, Bir. Ident_—____
Bop. AD 6A ~. fete

ep. Laboratory _—_ Training _____—
a <7" Public Atfs. Of

Taing SOF! 6

Publle Affs, 0:
Director's Sec'y  IFMAIL ROOM

Telephone Rm.
_NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 51 i : ‘ :
oaesee

aT creer oa)
: Le Sete ad
¢eubtype unit BeRa 1S chaos CARS,

yayjoos ©



Doc: 1dr 12/29/77 . |

The Deputy Attorney General HSCA
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS

In accordance with Attorney Generel Order 116-56,;
this memorandum advises that Special Agent 4
William F, Kusch was interviewed on 11/16/77. A
memorandum setting forth Mr. Kusch's account of
this interview is enclosed for your information. :

COPY OF ABS’
IN -LISU OF.



OPTIONAL FORIA NO. 10
"MAYOR EDITION
2% OSA FPMR (a cen) 1011.8

: UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290) pate: 12/19/77
ATTN: OFFICE OF LEGAL ‘COUNSEL :

TO

SAC, PORTLAND (62-3144)

FROM a y ¢
supyect: { ose SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
o) Enclosed herewith are five copies of an LHM relative -

to the interview of SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH, Portland Division, by
staff members of jhe HSCA in Washington, D.C., on 11/16/77.
aN

; Ww gas
G/- Bureau (Encs. 5)
2 Portland
WEK:ja
(4)

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan »
so10-108+02: : g
5360 Docld:32989749 Page 53 7



r ae _

» UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Portland, Oregon
File No.

December 19, 1977

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On November 16, 1977, SA William F. Kusch of the
Portland Division Of €he-Federal Buréau OE Ihvestigation (FBI)
was interviewed at House Annex #2 in Washington, D.C., by Mr. Mark
Speiser and Mr. Peter Beeson, members of the House Select. Committee
on Assassinations, investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr.

The interview with SA Kusch dealt with a period of
time SA Kusch was assigned to the New Orleans Division of the
FBI, specifically April, 1968. During April of 1968, SA Kusch,
along with numerous other Special Agents assigned to the New Orleans
Division, conducted many interviews with persons who had, or who
might have had, knowledge of the activities or contacts of James
Earl Ray during the period of time Ray, using the name Eric Galt,
was in New Orleans.

Specifically, SA Kusch was questioned regarding his
squad assignments in New Orleans, the identities of other squad
members, the identity of his supervisor, his Agent in charge and
his assistant Agent in charge at the time.

Further, SA Kusch was questioned relative to the
content of several interview report’ forms (FD 302s) concerning
interviews that he conducted and prepared appropriate FD 302s
in connection therewith, or FD 302s covering interviews that he
was a party to. House Select Committee on Assassinations members
exhibited said FD 302s to SA Kusch to refresh his memory.

House Select Committee members in essence apparently
desired SA Kusch to amplify or further expand on these interviews.

os

Pa RRRRRES 7 “Sgn moegnGe
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions
of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your
agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside
your agency.

fo]

f°
ie

“Ca- MP aAgo~


HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS >

SA-.Kusch pointed out that as a result of the passage of nine and
one-half years, for the most part he could not specifically recall
the persons interviewed. To specific questions regarding the
interviews, SA Kusch could only point out that if additional
questions had been asked of these persons interviewed at the time,
resulting in the receipt of any positive or pertinent information
regarding Galt, that information would have been duly recorded

on said FD. 302s.

Both Mr. Speiser and Mr. Beeson were cordial and SA
Kusch responded to their questions in a candid manner.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 55 _



Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division : January 26, 1978
Attention: Hr. Robert’ L. Keuch 1 - Mr. Foster

é + 1 - Legal Counsel Div.
peracrers eet (Attn: Mr. Coulson)

C) Quse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

oS

Reference As made to etter to. the Attorney General -
from G. Robert. Blexey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated -
December 15, 19774. which, in connection with HSCA's investi-
gation into the apsassination of Martin Euther King, Jr.
requested information pertaining to FBI electronic suveillance
of King and any other individual directly or indirectly
associated with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

r : Enclosed are an original and one copy of:a memorandun
in response to the above request. It is requested that you p)
- furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures ~ 2 (Secret Material Enclosed) —

1 ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) (Secret Material
Enclosed)

Assoc. Dir. —

ic sas
(6) LOD SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
y Roy
| ayes , LI As
’ soe . gress Lb ay -| Lrage- Ye
- 23 JAN 81 1978

Dep. AD Adm, — Se SS ees)

Dep. AD Inv, —

a
hi tw [ FORSAaneer™ 2 Ge)
SEES SCs
‘ublic Affs, Off. .
esc} B FEB 6
| Director's Sec'y— « MAIL ROOM [4~ TELETYPE UNIT 7
Nw85860-Docld:32989749 Page 56 : 7

‘eB;DOss



Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Dates. and places of electronic surveillance of King
were compiled through file reviews conducted in connection with
previous law suits filed against the FBI by the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) and a former SCLC officer and
aide to King, Bernard 8S. Lee. Although names of specific SCLC
affiliates were not provided by the HSCA in its request, all
names are readily available to the Committee, which has
received access to our files concerning King and SCLC.

oe

iW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 57



1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.
(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

January 26, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, ESCA, dated
December 15, 1977, which requested information in connection
with the HSCA's investigation into the assassination of
Hartin Luther King, Jr. This letter requested that the FBI
determine the dates and places of any and all electronic
surveillance of King and any other individual directly or
indirectly associated with the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference (SCLC). The Committee indicated It only desired
written confirmation as to the existence of such electronic
survelllance and the dates and places involved, with no
reference to the results of such surveillance.

In response to the above request, appropriate records
at FBI Headquarters were: reviewed with the following results:

Hilcrophone ‘Surveillances of King

Dates of Survetilance Location
January 5-7, 1964 Willard Hotel, _
Washington, D. C.
January 27, 1964 Shroeder Hotel,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
February 18-20, 1964 Hilton Hawaiian Village,
Honolulu, Hawaii
February 20-21, 1964 Ambassador Hotel,
Los Angeles, California
February 22-24, 1964 Hyatt House Motel,
Los Angeles, California
March 19-20, 1964 Statler Hotel,

Assoc. Dis

Pep, AD Adm FTA 1 SAS D (6) SEE NOTE PAGE FOUR

Dep. AD Inv.

Detroit, Michigan
_ ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

MR. ROB: L. KEUCH, & ONE SENT TO OFFICE
Fin, Pe OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS ; ~StaT—
. Classifie 437

Exempt from QYS, Category 2
y Date of Decl ification Indefinite

DECLATOINIO TARO

on NAVAN ES.
yigLOsune :
pues sea MAILROOM J) TELETYPE UNIT C) EN G Q- ! ? 2 Go “ f ye soe

NW 65360 Hocld:32989749 Page 58



NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 59

House Select Committee on Assassinations

Dates of Surveillance
April 23-24, 1964
July 7-9, 1964
September 28, 1964 -
October 2, 1964
January 8-11, 1965
January 20-31, 1965
March 29-31, 1965
May 12-13, 1965
Cctober 14-15, 1965
October 28-30, 1965
November 29-30, 1965
January 22, 1966

fPelephone Surveiliances of King

Dates of Surveillance
August 22-27, 1964
Noverber 8, 1963 -
April 30, 1965

April 24-26, 1964
July 7-9, 1964

August Wi, 1964 ~
September 6, 1964

Location

Senator Hotel,
Sacramento, California
Hyatt House Notel,

Los Angeles, California
Nanager Hotel,
Savanneh, Georgia
Park Sheraton Hotel,
Hew York City
fmericane Hotel,

New York City :
Park Sheraton Hotel,
New York City

Sheraton Atlantic Hotel,
few York City

Astor Hotel,

New York City

New York Hilton Hotel,
New Yorl: City
fmericana Hotel,

Hew York City
Americana Hotel,

New York City

Location

Claridge Hotel,

Atlantic City, New Jersey
Martin Luther King's
residence

Tyatt House Motel,

Los Angeles, California
Hyatt Rouse Hotel,

Los Angeles, California
Apartment 2B,

125 H. ‘72nd Street,

Now York City



os et ost

House Sélect Cormmittce on fae if

®elephone Surveillances of SCLC

Dates of Surveillance Location
Cctober 23, 1963 ~ SCLC Office,
January 24, 1964 New York City
July 13-31, 1964 Reon 1202,

14 5. 40th Street,
New York City
November 8, 1963 ~ SCLC Office,
June 21, 1966 Atlanta, Georgia

Tn an effort to respond to that portion of the HSCA's
request concerning existence or nonexistence of electronic
surveillance of individuals directly or indirectly associated
with the SCLC, personnel of the Congressional Inquiry Unit, FBI
Headquarters, fantliar with certain aspects of the King, SCLC
and related files, compiled a list of individuals with the SCLC
for the approximate period January, 1962, throuch 1968. Although
this list is not all inclusive due to the larre number of persons
affiliated with the SCLC, an effort was made to include those
individuals in key positions and who wére most active in the
organigation. Most of the individuals listed were identifiod
with the SCLC Headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. Easéd on review
of appropriate records at FBI Headquarters, noné of the kelow-
listed individuals hes been subject of electronic surveillance

by the FBI: ;

Ralph Abernathy Thonas. G. Kilgore Gloria Fraction
Jesste Jackson. Dora MeDonaid David Wallace
Ternard S. Lee Jenes Harrison Jess Gill

Hosea Williars Uyate Walker Carole Noaver
James Oranseée Loran Kearse : Albert Turner
James Level. Stoney Cooks Frank Ditto
Andrew Young Fred C. Bennett Cc. K. Steel
Valter Fauntroy Booker fT. Bonrier Samuel Williams
Coretta Scott King Lenny Brownlee curtis Harris

Joun Rutherford Gelden Frinks” . Girliilo A. NeSveen
William Rutherford Joseph Lester Nenkerson Hajor Jones
Sernard Lafayette Samuel B. Nells Lawrence D. Reddick
Dorothy Cotton. Benjamin Johnson I. M. Augustine

Jd, &. Johnsen, Herbert V. Coulton Septima Clark
Josoph EB. Lovery Thoras Offenburcer 7. ¥. Mogers, Jr.
Fred L. Shuttliesworth New Soong-Li - Ter

Cordy T. Vivian James Lawson

Adele Kanter Lillian Hunter

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page6sO 8



ie

ob — Sic ney

House Select Committee on Assassinations

Records at PRI Headquarters disclosed that the
following individuals, formerly associated with the SCLC, were
subjects of electrofiie surveillance by the PBI (Secret).

Stanley David Levison
Clarence B. Jones
unter Pitts O'Dell
Bayard Rustin

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/26/78,
captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House
of Representatives (HSCA)."

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 61



= e ®
Select Conumittee on Assassinations

(202) 225.4528 a US, Bouse of Representatives

3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

Vi Ze ae 7 ‘+ WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515
Caged agen DEC 15 1977

a a Kl 1777

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch anes
i Deputy Assistant Attorney General * 7
4 Criminal Division, Room 2413 7

Dear Mr. Attorney ‘General: '

In connection with the’ investigation by this Committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is
requested that the Federal Bureau of Investigation review
its files on electronic surveillance ‘and determine the
dates and places of any and all electronic surveillance of
Dr. King and any ether individual directly or indirectly
associated with the SCLC.

5 At this time the Committee only desires a written
- confirmation as to, the existence of such electronic surveil-
lance-and the dates and places involved with no xeference
to the results of such surveillance. :

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly.
appreciated.

Very truly yours,

Lt AALKEIEO Abie Cabra. =

LE IA Ene-2) G. Robert Blake

f -G. Y

VTA. AQ Chief Counsel and Director
|-0l4 cent) : ‘ é
GRB:mek - je ‘

: Mx. Danny 0. Coulson i : : 7
cc: Mr. Danny 0. C ro} ba-yipagor “4
ENGLOSURE

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 62



27-5 i K 5 a 4 1
in Pee, ana
TRANSMIT VIA! CLASSIFICATION: 0

C Teletype =) liimediate :,, () TOP SECRET H i

CO Facsimile © Priority (SECRET H

C3 Airtel (© Routine i" © CONFIDENTIAL !

OVEFTO |

CLEAR H

1

1

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)
ATTN: Records Management Division,
Congressional Inquiry Unit

x ea. SAC, SPRINGFIELD (62-2567) (RUC)

C/ supsnce: Ci

LECT..COMMET TER
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) Peet

a

y wet bat Liven oe . 7
Reurtel to SI, 1/19/78.74 ceca NE NSS. I Siero 2

Enclosed for the Bureau is one photocopy of each
serial in the following Springfield Division main files: ie

(1) 157-1792, serials 1-85 (189 pages);

(2) 44-1120, serials 1-5 (10 pages); ra)
Nea

(3) 170-445, serials 1-23 (48 pages);

(4) 170-445A, serials 1-6 (11 pages).

Also enclosed for the Bureau is one’ photocopy:
of the following serial in the following Springfield Division
file, reference identifiable with RICHARD GEPPERT:
(5) 157-1791, serial 23 (8 pages).
ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

Numerous serials contained in these files have
been classified "Confidential". ST-129

Springfield file 157-1792 rial 82, is a correlation|
memo showing GEPPERT was the subject WEL le an 4 a
S| pelt 9 or 1
> Bureau (62-117290) (Enc1 5) ENC —
- Springfield (62-2567)

3) cup fe

AG nee Ply
ee
ESR, 4 1978 e Eadie d

—— - > oo
1a FRET 49 Page 63 cman Timed” (7 90 1 1977 0 = 225-589


SI 62-2567

file 100-10245. This main file has been destroyed in accor-
| dance with the File Destruction Program.

0 _Docld:32989749 Page 64



é

BHOG43 131931
NOO4s woot Asst. Dirt.
Adm. & Z
PP Ha ; an oe
DE BH Jan 13. 2 36 PH La ; Bin, 6 Pore}
Intell___
P 131931Z JAN 78 cailliten, Toren
F ZH 7 OUR.
FM BIRMINGHAM (66-22 84) caumsin eae on Fas ee
Spec. Inv__
¢ TO DIRECTOR (62~11729) (PRIORITY) fo} Beth Soma
f Public Alle Ol
BT ¢ Telephone Ola
t CLEAR ©
ATTENTION OF CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL WEST IGATIVE Geese
DIVISION, ' PABSSCESpIC,
: ToySeotion,
(OUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCa); BUDED P23
JANUARY 13, 1978 ; :
-RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA AND OTHER OFFICES, ’ :
DECEMBER 27, 1977.29 - a
,
RESPONSE TO QUESTION NO. ONE: MURKIN INVESTIGATION ASSIGNED =

a a
ot @ Assoc. Dir ____
Ly

Dep. AD Adm_—_

¢

Dep. AD Inv,

TO HENRY S. SNOW (DECEASED). PRIOR TO MURKIN INVESTIGATION
Sa SNOW WAS ASSIGNED TO GENERAL CRIMINAL SQUAD AND CONDUCTED
GENERAL CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION,

EXJ0L 5)-
REG-96 1 aall 724 Viti —|

23 JAN 26 1978

é :
of :

\ a
copies madopy }.
a4 for review ap ETE by —
Pres: t tay ESCA roBhsh77 request
NW 65360" Docld:32988219T Page 65 ; (See Butile 62117290)

— NW 69


RaGE TWO BH coud , ®

IN ANSWER TO QUESTION NO. TwO: THERE WERE NO COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE EFFORTS BY BIRMINGHAM AGENTS AGAINST MARTIN LUTHER

KING OR THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE DURING THE
PERIOD OF 1965 THROUGH 1968,
THE FOLLOW ING WERE CASE AGENTS ASSIGNED TO SUBSTANTIVE

INVESTIGAT IONS OF MARTIN LUTHER KING: LAWRENCE GETTINGS,
PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO SECURITY AND CRIMINAL SQUAD AND CONDUCTED
THAT TYPE OF INVESTIGATION; MARVIN M. EUBANKS, PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED
TO SECURITY SQUAD AND SECURITY INVESTIGATION.

THE FOLLOWING AGENTS WERE ASSIGNED TO INVESTIGATION OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE:
WILL IAM PERRY (DECEASED), PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO CRIMINAL

SQUAD AND WORK; COLEMAN D.. GEARY, III, PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO
BOMBING MATTERS; LAWRENCE GETTINGS (SUPRA); MARVIN M. EUBANKS (SUPR
AND C. B. STANBERRY, PREVIOUSLY ASSIGNED TO SECURITY S@YAD AND

tp

SECUR ITY INVEST IGAT IONS.
THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED AFTER A REVIEW OF

BIRMINGHAM INDICES AND SUBSEQUENT FILE REVIEW.
BT



,

ey

Is, Zig, crs onezonocoamonns YY

Gatton © rauernors bee _ ec
Shatsrornen ts boob, Cone GANGLD MR BAWE MH, ai CLT
FLoyod. FIPIHAN, INO. Select Committee ori Assassinations,
RODERT W, EDGAR, PA, pr . aia
Gea raaies US. House of Representatives QilS Pm
ia 3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
wastihecronpces=hots n / as [ )
yeenens qoyve
FROB2AT covmmmen dA 20 1978

HAND DELIVER

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States
C) Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr..Robert L. Keuch 7
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General: até

By letter dated January 4, (197% this Committee
requested access to materials, files, ‘memoranda and
miscellaneous items pertaining to. Gerold Frank in
connection with the investigation into the death of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. These materials (94-63917) have
been reviewed by the staff, and it would be appreciated,
if the materials. could be prepared for delivery, along
with copies of the following additional items:

1) Section 78°
44-38861 - 5655

| " 5654

5653

2)° Section 84
44-38861 - 5942
rs

5943
t 5944
ia 5945
- 5946
3) The MURKIN Legat tickler files for MO
a) London :
b) Ottawa Ly. Sec Ga- -/ 19 IG - Yl
c) Mexico citySLg RiG-79 aoe
a) Paris 7
: . bt. Ot ag 8
TREAT AS

or? _s
OR 161 Kae a o
&'7FEB2 1978

g 7 : ieenuaen! |
NW 65360 ae oa Waa



The ae, fe Griffin B. Bell : >
Page Two

JAN 20 1978

Additionally, it is requested that the Bureau begin
to prepare for delivery all files, memoranda and miscellaneous
items on William Bradford Huie for the years 1968 to the

present.
Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly
appreciated.
Sincerely,
; Sli x Ueolan.
I : G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director
GRB:ghj

cc: Danny 0. Coulson

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 68



se

Assistant Attorney General :
Criminal Division. PEIRAL GOVISROE = January 26, 1978
Attention: Hr, Robert L. Keuch

1 - Mr. Foster
Director, PBI 1 - Legal Counsel Div.
Oo (Attn: Mr. Coulson):

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference 6 made to letter to the Attorney General
From G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 9, 1977, qihich, in connection with the HSCA's investi-
gation into the assassination of Martin tuther King, Jr.,
requested that former agent Robert Nichols be made available
for interview by the HSCA.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum
in response to the above request. It is requested that you
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 2

1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) LU
an)
STA:
ate, SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
Tay,
2 exes REC-7
i MAILED 5, (2-19 29y- 3411
ol kokara ee eer

ia Bog 14) Bo i unit CJ

NW 65360 Docl dfesoras Page 69

JAN 2 6 1978

T JAN 2? 1978

—

tio



Assistant Attorney General
. Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Atlanta Office has been in touch with him regarding the interview
and he is awaiting further contact for final interview arrangements.
These arrangements are handled informally by representatives

of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and the

;
| . NOTE: Former. SA Nichols works and resides in Atlanta. The
:
| Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBIHQ.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 70



Assoc Di,

: ® ®

1- Mr. Foster | *
1 - Legal Counsel Div.
(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

January 26, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTER ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter te the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated
December 9, 1977, whieh, in connection with the HSCA’S. investi-
gation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, dJr.,
requested that former agent Robert Nichols be made available
for interview by the HSCA.

This memorandum 1s to confirm that former agent
Nichols has been cleared from his employment. agreement and is:
available for interview as needed by the HSCA. Arrangements
for interview can be made through contact with representatives
of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and the
Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBI Headquarters.

py ee

ORIGINAL os ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, AND ONE SENT TO
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/26/78.
eaptioned, "House Select Committee on. Assassinations, U. S. House
of Representatives (HSCA)."

ar

Public Affs, Off.

' l : gy
Directors Secty — MAIL ROOM ene unt eeaLasuag of / / e

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 71

FBI/D03



LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

‘SAMUEL L. DEVINE, O10
‘FIEWARY D. MCKINNEY, CONN,
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD 3. SAWYER, MICH.

SHolect Committee or Assassinations +
EreEEEyR i ELS. House of Representatives

(202) 225-2624

FLOYO J, FITHIAN, IND.
noocar Ww, .

9331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 9 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell .
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

e

In connection with the investigation by this
Committee, into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., it is requested that ex-FBI agent Robert Nichols,
formerly of the-Atlanta field office, be made avail-
able to the Committee for interview on a priority
basis.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be
greatly appreciated. | .

Very truly yours, :

Silo Clots,

G. Robert Blakey . :
yl
}
j

Chief Counsel and Director

cc: Danny 0. Coulson

Dt ZBAAG/ CO

GRB:mek ; [lLael7ez Ene~2)
TTA O4tQ 4499
[OLA Co) (2-1/7 2907 VT

ENTLOSURE

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 72
efbneeieeeed ise



TELETYPE
ROUTINE

EFIO 1/19/78
1 - Mr. Foster

pm Doron ALL INFORMATION CONTA
0 SPRINGFIELD (ROUTINE |
ro SEMEN (OEE) HN UNCLASSIFIED * .

O arte eee BY: “\ eeaetal
NS
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) wy ™
THE HSCA IS CURRENTLY CONDUCTING INVESTIGATION INTO THE _ x
1. No
ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. BY LETTER DATED ae) cw
a1 “ot

DECEMBER 30, 3977, TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, THE HSCA REQUES yee

“oO
THE FBI PROVIDE ALL FILES, DOCUMENTS AND OTHER MATERIALS oft {\ Cc
“iD
CONCERNING RICHARD GEPPERT, BORN JULY 3], ]94], RESIDING -AT ~
1340 NIEDRINGHAUS AVENUE » GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS. 8
NG & 25772 @
BY LETTER DATED JANUARY J6, ]978, THE HSCA EXTENDED its e
:

REQUEST TO INCLUDE. FIELD OFFICE FILES. THE HSCA ALSO FURNISHED

A SIGNED STATEMENT OF GEPPERT, DATED DECEMBER 28, 1977, 3
AUTHORIZING HSCA REVIEW OF ALL MATERIAL CONCERNING HIM IN a
POSSESSION OF THE FBI. IN THIS STATEMENT GEPPERT ALSO

DISCLOSED THAT HE VOLUNTEERED TO HSCA STAFF MEMBERS THE EXTENT

AND NATURE OF HIS INFORMANT RELATIONSHIP WITH THE FBI.

NM aolmasa Pend Sita

AE eas

Assoc, Dit ——|

uako Seat

1 - 157-£6213
1 - 170-5569 . (Ee

FECAL EUW an D)
cy

a JAN 28 1978

0405 3 2h 18 Spe ett
seuey ey ee ee
VELEY
Telephone Rm, — \\ 7
Directors See'y — 2, Ge tT? Seuprves u unit i oe
a NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 73 : es : 7 A



woke

PAGE TWO EFTO

FBIHQ FILES DISCLOSED GEPPERT WAS SUBJECT OF SPRINGFIELD
EXTREMIST MATTER INVESTIGATION (]57-]792) IN 1972 AND
SPRINGFIELD FILE 44~]]20 FOLLOWING ALLEGED HARASSMENT BY
OFFICERS OF THE GRANITE CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT IN ]975. HE
WAS ALSO SUBJECT OF SPRINGFIELD FILE 70-445,

SPRINGFIELD PROMPTLY FURNISH FBIHQ ONE XEROX COPY. OF
EACH SERIAL IN THE ABOVE THREE INVESTIGATIONS AND ONE COPY
OF ANY OTHER MAIN FILE OR FILE REFERENCE WHICH MAY BE
IDENTIFIABLE WITH GEPPERT. THIS MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED
BY COVER AIRTEL TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,
RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION. UPON RECEIPT AT FBIHQ THE
MATERIAL WILL BE PROCESSED FOR ACCESS BY STAFF MEMBERS OF THE
HSCA.
Br

|W 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 74


PAGE THREE EFTO

NOTE: This teletype confirms telephonic communication with
Supervisor Joseph Ondula of the Springfield Office on
1/19/78. This matter has been coordinated with

SAM, V, Hale, Top Echelon and Criminal Informant Unit,
Criminal Investigative Division.

:32989749_Page 75


* FD36.Rev. 7-27-76) ry
rr ee
oc dRANSwIT VIA:

NW 65360 Docld: ears Page 76

1
H
PRECEDENCE: i

CO Teletype Co Immediate (TOP SECRET H .
© Facsimile © Priority (2 SECRET H
&z Airtel =) Routine (J CONFIDENTIAL |
u EFTO \
(CLEAR H
Date V/a/78_ 1

A aproved:

CLAS SIFICATION:

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62«%E7296) ag
Attn: Congressional Inquiry Unit,
Special Investigative Division

FROM: SAC, ATLANTA (66-2242) (RUC)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
BUREAU DEADLINE - 1/13/78

Re EBIHO teletype to numerous offices, including

Atlanta, 12/27/77. : —
Referenced Bureau teletype indicated that the

HSCA was currently conducting investigation into the assassination,

of MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. (MURKIN); and in connection with

this investigation, the HSCA had requested the FBI provide

the following:

(1) The identification of field office case agent(s)
assigned to the MURKIN investigation in recipient offices
-and this was to include the division, section or squad assign-
ment, and the nature of the agent's assignment immediately
prior to his involvement in the MURKIN investigation.

(2) Identification of the field office case agent(s)
assigned to counterintelligence program (Cointelpro), efforts
directed against KING.and the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference (SCLC) during the period 1965 - 1968 in recipient
offices, and this was to include the division, section or
squad assignment, and the nature of the agent's assignment = ‘|
immediately prior to his involvement in the Cointelpro, “54

KING, and SCLC investiaasions- REC-36 La- i Taq a
“In aaaitideh” Zepients were to identify thewesse

agent(s) involved in the security investigation of KING r
and SCLC, as well as the Cointelpro. 1 JAN 2

Vote paet e
C@ Bureau Copies made Ayo /-S
“Atlanta (1-66-2242) eae get
(1-44-2386) (MORKIN) y=

7ST ae ~“Hsehn /j3]

(4) (Seo Bue {ie 462-11 “ity -

78.

Transmitted anes Per
(Number) (Time)

TAM 3 Nga

GPO 1 1977 © - 225-529



AT 66-2242

Atlanta has reviewed pertinent files as requested
by FBIHQ, and the information sought by the HSCA is set
forth below in chart form:

1. _MURKIN
(Atlanta file 44-2386)
Nature of
— * Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in.
Agent assigned Assignment MURKIN investigation
ALAN G. 4/8/68 —- Atlanta - #3, Security/extremist
SENTINELLA 4/29/68 Security/extremist investigations
Squad
ROBERT R. 4/29/68 —- Atlanta #4 Fugitive investi-
PERRY 7/30/68 Fugitives gations
O. RICHARD 7/30/68 — Atlanta - #3 Extremist
HAMILTON 7/31/69 investigations
O. RICHARD 5/30/70 - Atlanta - #3 4
HAMILTON 7/13/70
O. RICHARD 2/8/71 - Atlanta - #3 i
HAMILTON 3/16/71
O. RICHARD 3/31/71 - Atlanta - #3 "
HAMILTON 4/7/71
O. RICHARD 7/13/73 - Atlanta - #3 iu
HAMILTON 8/31/73
O. RICHARD 6/19/74 - Atlanta - #3 it
HAMILTON 6/27/74
O. RICHARD 8/13/74 —- Atlanta - #8 Civil rights
HAMILTON 9/24/74 Civil rights, thefts matters
from interstate
shipment (TFIS)
Etc.
2
NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 77

bile


NW 65360 Doctd:32989749 Page 78

AT 66-2242
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment MURKIN investigation
THOMAS J. 8/26/75 - Atlanta - #8 Civil Rights,
WILSON 9/8/75 TPIS
THOMAS J. 1/1/18 - Atlanta - #8 if
WILSON 3/23/76
JOHN J. 10/12/77 - Atlanta - #8 Civil Rights
HAYMAN 11/8/77 matters
2. Atlanta Agents assigned
to/or who handled the Atlanta
Counterintelligence Program
(Cointelpro) during the period
1965 - 1968 in which efforts were
directed against KING and the SCLC
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or Ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment Cointelpro
CPUSA
Cointelpro
ALDEN F. 4/14/64 - Atlanta - #3 Security
MILLER 8/13/65 Investigations
Cointelpro
Black Nationalist-
Hate Groups
EDWARD U. 8/29/67 — Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
CRIM 7/30/69 Investigations

CPUSA Negro
Question; Communist
Influence in Racial
Matters (CIRM)-
Cointelpro

No case agent assigned -
matters handled by:



°

AT 66-2242
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or Ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment Cointelpro
ROBERT R. 1/1/64 - Atlanta - $3 Security/extremist
NICHOLS 8/20/64 investigations
ALDEN F. 2/4/64 - Atlanta - $3 Security
MILLER 8/21/64 investigations
ALAN G. 71/22/65 - Atlanta - $3 Security/extremist
SENTINELLA 4/15/69 investigations
- Identity of case agent(s) involved
in the security investigation of
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., and the
SCLC
' Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign—
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment KING and SCLC
investigations
MARTIN LUTHER
KING, JR.
| SM-C :
ROBERT R. 3/7/61 - Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
NICHOLS 5/12/61 investigations
ROBERT R. 2/28/62 - Atlanta - #3 "
NICHOLS 10/16/62
ROBERT R. 1/9/63 - Atlanta - #3 us
NICHOLS 7/31/63
ROBERT R. 11/6/63 - Atlanta + #3 7
NICHOLS 5/21/65
ALAN G. 5/21/65 - Atlanta - #3 7
SENTINELLA 6/5/68
4

|_NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 79



AT 66-2242
Nature of
Division, Agent's Assign-
Section, or ment prior to
Case Period Squad of involvement in
Agent assigned Assignment KING and SCLC
investigations
Communist infiltration
of the SCLC
ROBERT R. 4/17/62 - Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
NICHOLS 12/1/64 investigations
ALDEN F, 12/1/64 - Atlanta - #3 Security
MILLER 4/26/66 investigations
ALAN G. 4/26/66 —- Atlanta - #3 Security/extremist
SENTINELLA 3/12/71 investigations
O. RICHARD 3/12/71 - Atlanta - #3 Extremist
HAMILTON 5/23/73 investigations
O. RICHARD 7/10/73 - Atlanta - #3 i
HAMILTON 10/20/73

5*

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 80



¥

Assoc. Dit j
Dep. AD Adm
Dep.-AD Inv.

Asst. Dirt

,

/

Rea
FT
R 1921062 JAN 716 onl
u Loursvauig’¢ss-2612)
/

TO DIRECHOR (62-11729@) ROUTINE .
BT SJ j Public Aifs, Off.
Telephone Rm
FTO . Director's Sec’y-
ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
DIVISION
OUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINAT IONS CHSCA), BUDED JANUARY *®
13, 1978.
uw

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA, DATED DECEMBER 27, 1977.

PURSUANT TO REFERENCED COMMUNICATION, APPROPRIATE REVIEW
OF FILES MAINTAINED BY LOUISVILLE DIVISION REVEALED FOLLOWING
DATA REQUESTED BY HSCA,

(1) NOT APPLICABLE TO LOUISVILLE DIVISION,

(2) NO COUNTER INTELLIGENCE (COINTELPRO) EFFORTS DIRECTED

AGAINSD EITHER MARTIN LUTHER Kinx +, O 0-30, 11124
(ERA30"* °Reb-co GO 05

EDUCATIONAL FUND (SCEF), DURING PER LOD 1965-1968, Ged be

? uge

LOCATED IN REVIEW OF COINTELPRO AND SUBS; fiaygel NvESTIGATIONS
oping

(al : gan 25 1978
Hears PU Ap 20

al

for revieway FBIRQ by
HSCA re on
(See Buttle #62~117290)



6

OF KING AND SCLC, NO COINTELPRO ACTIVITIES WERE EITHER

»

LS 66-26 12. EFTO PaGE Two

CONSIDERED OR CARRIED OUT AGAINST KING AND SCLC BY LOUISVILLE
DIVISION,

SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.,
ASSIGNED SA GEORGE W. HUTCHINSON, JR. (RETIRED) MAY 14, 1965 -
AUGUST 13, 1966, AND SA RICHARD B. VIVIAN JULY 30, 1976 -
OCTOBER 28, 1976 LATTER ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE IN CONNEC-
TION WITH DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW.

SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF SCLC ASSIGNED SA WARREN L.

WALSH (RETIRED) SEPTEMBER 29, 1961 - OCTOBER 36, 1961; OCTOBER
17, 1963 - NOVEMBER 18, 19633; DECEMBER 14, 1963- JANUARY 22,
1964; JUNE 5, 1964 - JULY 8, 1964; SEPTEMBER 21, 1964 - OCTOBER
12, 1964; JUNE 2, 1965 - JULY 2G, 1965; NOVEMBER 17, 1965 -
JANUARY 23, 19663 JULY 13, 1966 - AUGUST 12, 1966; FEBRUARY

12, 1967 - MARCH 24, 1967; SA GEORGE W. HUTCHISON, JR. (RETIRED)
AUGUST 12, 1968 ~ JUNE 5, 19693 SA WARREN L. WALSH (RETIRED)
JUNE 5, 1969 - JULY 29, 1969. SCLC (BUFILE 188-438794)

(LS 157-99) INVESTIGATED BY LOUISVILLE AS "RACIAL MATTER"

AND “INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST". «



LS 66-2612 EFTO “PAGE THREE

SPECIAL AGENTS GEORGE W. HUTCHISON, JR. (RETIRED), WARREN
L, WALSH (RETIRED) AND RICHARD B. VIVIAN ALL ASSIGNED LOUISVILLE
SECURITY - CIVIL RIGHTS SQUAD PRIOR TO AND DURING ABOVE
LISTED CASE ASSIGNMENTS,
BT

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 83



Assoc. Dizi} |
Dep. AD Adm.—=="|

Dep. AD Inv.

a ¥ A1G195— . >
J :
DE SL dai 3 05 PHT8

P 119247 JAN 78

iz eRAL Bier)
aF LUVESTIGATION
Bion rURSATIONS SECTION

FM ST. LOUIS (62-5897) (RUC)

“ TO DIRECTOR (62-11799@) ROUTINE y :
| oer ; -
: Tolophone Rm

GEAR Nrector's Sec’y———

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE#
DIVISION

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)$; BUDED JANUARY 13, , i

1978. ae?

Ae
REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE DATED JULY 97, 1977. VA

C1) FORMER SPECIAL AGENT HAROLD R. DOBSON WAS CASE AGENT AS-

SIGNED TO MURKIN INVESTIGATION, ST. LOUIS FILE 44-775, BUREAU FILE
44-38861, IN ST. LOUIS DIVISION. FORMER SPECIAL AGENT DOBSON WAS
ASSIGNED TO SECURITY SQUAD AND HANDLED SECURITY TYPE CASES PRIOR TO
HIS INVOLVEMENT IN MURKIN INVESTIGATION,

(2) ST. LOUIS FILE 157-5818 ENTITLED “COUNTERINTELLIGENCE {
PROGRAMS, BLACK NATIONALISTS, HATE GROUPS, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE" WAS

peck

fasd eee: (Cz copies wade po I-3

Latfh Sth:me "|
Yo “PTT,

a foo j for revieyap Tana by — reviey at FBIEQ by
: TIN wet 7 ISCA re/2//3, xyequest.
NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 84: SAGONE eT . (See Buf4id ¥62-1172909



we Le . ‘ - :

PAGES TWO, SL 62-5097 | ; a
ON FEBRUARY 27, 1968, THROUGH JANUARY &, 1969, WAS ASSIGNED To
SPECIAL AGEMT JACK A. FRENCH OF SECURITY SauaD AT ST. LOUIS DIVISION.
HIS ASSIGNMENT IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THIS CASE ASSIGAMENT WAS TO
HANDLE SECURITY TYPE CASES.

ST. LOUIS FILE 1009-17801, BUREAU FILE 10%-196670, ENTITLED
“MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; SECURITY MATTER - C" WAS ASSIGNED To

| FOLLOWING AGENTS: FORMER SPECIAL AGENT RICHARD B. SMITH, JANUARY 15,

1965, THROUGH JANUARY 19, 1965, FEBRUARY 3, 1965, THROUGH APRIL 1@,

1965; SPECIAL AGENT ROBERT S. STEWART, APRIL 28, 1965, THROUGH

APRIL 2%, 1965; FORMER SPECIAL AGENT WALTER A. HILGENDORF, L

NOVEMBER 11, 1965, THROUGH NOVEMBER 12, 1965, AND JUNE 14, 1966, i

THROUGH JUNE 17, 19663 FORMER AGENT RICHARD B. SMITH, OPENING DATE

UNKNOUN THROUGH JULY 6, 1966, AND MARCH 25, 1967, THROUGH MARCH 27,

1967.

st. LOUIS FILE 195-4027, BUREAU FILE 199-438794, ENTITLED

"COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

RM; IS.- C" WAS ASSIGNED TO FOLLOWING AGENTS: FORMER AGENT WALTER A.

HILGENDORF, SEPTEMBER 23, 1964, THROUGH DECEMBER 19, 1964, AND

MARCH 21, 1965, THROUGH APRIL 19, 1965; SPECIAL AGENT JACK A. FRENCH,

JUNE 3, 1965, THROUGH JUNE 16, 19653 FORMER AGENT WALTER A.

NW 65360 _Docld:32989749 Page 85


PAGE THREE si 62-509 7"@Me ak @ aan
HIL@QMORY, FEBRUARY 24, 1966, THROUGH DATE UNKNOWN; SPECIAL AGENT
JACK A. FRENCH, JUNE 6, 1969, THROUGH JULY 23, 1969. THE ABOVE
AGENTS AND FORMER AGENTS WERE ASSIGNED TO ST. LOUIS DIVISION SFCURITY
SoUAD DURING PERTINENT PERIOD.

f REVIEW OF ABOVE FILES DISCLOSED NO INSTANCES WHERE COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES VERE CONSIDERED OR CAPRIED OUT AGAINST KING
CR THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE.

ST



aS a. : 6

LAOS 73 91318972
PP HQ
DE LA pK
3
P 1318872 JAN 78 yn \3 \
Re se punehe
FM LOS ANGELES (62-7841) @) cogmieee
ene’

tion
TO DIRECTOR (62-117298) prion
Director's Sec'y__

‘EF hae

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT}~SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE SESE
| NN, Eng ‘ection

DIVISION. ces
, a

Qou SE SELECT “COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) , BUREAU
DEADLINE JANUARY 15, 1978.

w
RE BUTEL DECEMBER 27, 1977, TO ATLANTA AND OTHER
OFFICES. oy

FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS COMMUNICAT ION AND RETEL THE

Telephone Rm—___

TERM CASE AGENT(S) WAS DEFINED AS THE SINGLE AGENT TO WHOM
THE CASE WAS ASSIGNED AND WHO WSIBEP NS BLE FOR THE

DIRECTION AND FLOW OF THE INVESTIGATION. REQ.9¢ ( Q_. 17290 Fil

IT IS NOTED THAT UNDER CAPTION "BERNARD S, LEE V.

CLARENCE M, KELLEY, ET AL (U.S.D.Coy D.C.) (CIVIL ACTION
NUMBER 76-118) BUFILE 62-117194, LA FILE 1@8-57229" AND een eed
wees eT

ob
“SOUTHERN CHR ISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC) V. CLARENCE

go JAN 25 1878

nen

—eene=

Sins” ease 4 TP :
ft iain tT
(oc \

for reviey at F BO by
, HSCA rolshal 2 request.
v te aera n 1978, _ (See Bufile #62-117290)



SanREeE, SEREReEEEEEs

PAGE TWO (LA 62-7841) EF TO
M. KELLEY, ET AL (U.S.D.C., D.C.) (CIVIL ACTION NUMBER

76-1186) BUFILE 62-117193, LA FILE 1909-57229," LOS
ANGELES HAS PERMANENTLY CHARGED OUT TO THE BUREAU SEVERAL
SERIALS WHICH THEREFORE ARE NOT AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW.
SERIALS WERE FROM FILES CaPTIONED “MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR$
SECURITY MATTER-COMMUNIST; BUFILE 1@@- 186670; LA FILE
1908-57229"; "COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SCLS3
IS -C 3 BUFILE 199-438794 AND 1@@-4423493 LA FILE
198-65 141" "CP-USA NEGRO QUESTION, COMMUNIST INFILTRATION
IN RACIAL MATTERS; IS-C3 BUFILE 190-3-116, LA FILE 157-859."
A REVIEW OF PERTINENT FILES WITHIN THE LOS ANGELES

DIVISION BETWEEN THE YEARS 1965 - 1968 DETERMINED THE
FOLLOWI Nes

+ THE ABOVE FILE REGARDING COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF THE
SCLC WAS HANDLED ON THE SIBSTANTATIVE DESK SUPERVISED BY
SA JOHN S, TEMPLE WHICH WAS DESIGNATED AS SQUAD NUMBER TWO.
THIS SQUAD HANDLED INVESTIGATIONS OF RACIAL AND BLACK
EXTREMIST MATTERS, THIS INVESTIGATION WAS ASSIGNED TO SA
LOUIS K. DE GEUS IN FEBRUARY 19653 SA R. ANDREWS PETERS IN

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 88


]

PAGE THREE (LA 62-7841) E FTO
SEPTEMBER 19653 SA W. JAMES WOOD IN APRIL 1967; SA
WALTER M. BRADY IN JANUARY 1968; AND SA E. RHEAD RICHARDS,
dRe IN MAY 1968 ;

THE MAIN FILE ON KING WAS ASSIGNED TO SQUAD TWO AS
ABOVE AND WAS ASSIGNED To SA DE GEUS IN JANUARY 19653
SA PETERS IN MARCH 19653 SA WOOD IN JANUARY 19673; SA BRADY
IN JUNE 19673; AND SA GEORGE E. AIKEN, JR. IN FEBRUARY
196 8

THE FILE REGARDING THE CP-USA INFILTRATION OF RACIAL
MATTERS IS ONLY PER IPHERALLY CONCERNED WITH KING OR THE
SCLC AND CONTAINS NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND OTHER INFORMATION
WHICH WAS INCLWWED IN OTHER SUBSTANTATIVE FILES. WHILE
NOT CLEAR, THE CASE APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN CONTROLLED BY
SA TEMPLE,

THE ENTIRE StBSTANTATIVE FILE CaPT IONED “MURKIN$
BUFILE 44-388613 LA FILE 44-1574" WAS COPIED AND SUBMITTED

7 1
TO THE BUREAU UNDER INSTANT CAPTION. THIS MATTER WAS
HANDLED ON SQUAD NUMBER ONE WHICH WAS SUPERVISED BY SA
WILLIAM JOHN NOLAN BUT APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN SUPERVISED BY
4

NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 89


SA TEMPLE. SQUAD NUMBER ONE HANDLED SECURITY TYPE
INVESTIGATION INVOLVING THE CP-USA, SWP, ET CETERA. THE

CASE APPEAR S TO HAVE BEEN AS ASSIGNED JOINTLY TO SA'S
LEROY W. SHEETS AND THEODORE J. A*HEARN ALTHOUGH SHEETS
WAS APPARENTLY INVOLVED AS CASE AGENT ONLY DURING THE
INITIAL STAGES IN APRIL 1968, .

ALL OF THE ABOVE INDIVIDUALS WITH THE EXCEPTION OF
SA *S BRADY, RICHARDS AND AIKEN ARE NO LONGER EMPLOYEES
OF THE FBI.
BI

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 90



ee fo730 9132335
RK HQ

DE tel

K 1323352 JAN 78 FEDE ERAE i yy

OF TEST GAT
Fi, IAW (62- Bs Ruc SOHNUNICATIONS SECTION

/
TO DIRECTOR (62-117298)ROUTINE
BT

Telephone Rm—__.
Director's Sec'y___

EFT 0
Gouse SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCA), BUREAU DEADLINE
JANUARY 13, 1978.
RE BUTEL DECEWBER 27, 1977. °~
FOLLOWING IS NUMBERED PaRaGRAPH REPLY TO REQUEST OF iIqiiI
SET OUT IN RE BUTEL:
1. "“MURKIN’. SA DAVID N, JELLISON, ASSIGNED APRIL 8, 1968:
NUMBER 5 SQUAD; IMMEDIATE PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS INVOLVED BLACK AND WHITE
EXTREMIST ATTEXS AND CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS, Sa LEON E.
FISH; ASSIGNED AUGUST 18, 1972 (RUC AUGUST 28, 1972); NUMBER 2
SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS MAINLY CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGg-
TIONS; SA JOSEPH T. O'LEARY; ASSIGNED JULY rep g BSS CHU seuss 3
1976), FBIHQ@ sperurste at vEEReAO Or , aa PRIOR eas 3
rsp {APPL Loawt INVESTIGATIONS. SRA JOHN S, ATWATER; ASSIGNED JUNE 3, =
big Se JUNE 6, 1977), SINGLE INTERVIEW; WEST PaLit BEACH Ras
92 oe, U- Report 2m

bey ete

i. a Sa aOES.. - - SRaatgee Ud 1 an On hy 48 —& ._ copies meg 2
, PPh Titon ©

(ce pont
PN nes, 5 neat een for revia ind by
! C273 Hsca roplisp7 reauest.
pieeiaiclaiccenial fay (Seo Butl1é 42-117290)



PAGE TWO Mid 62-6623 E F TO

IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ASSIGNWENTS GENERAL CRIMINAL AND SECURITY.

2. As “MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; Sil-C. "SA RAYMOND L.
O'KELLY, ASSIGNED 1965 THROUGH 1968; NUMBER 3 SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY
PRIOR ASSIGNWENTS DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE NATURE, INCLUDING LOCaL
CPUSA GROUP.

B. "COMINFIL OF SCLC; IS - C." SA RAYMOND L. O' KELLY,
ASSIGNED 1965 TO MAY 2, 19683 NUMBER 3 SQUAD; PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS,
SEE PRECEEDING PARAGRAPH.

SA JOHN C, MENTON, ASSIGNED MaY 2, 1968 THROUGH DECEMBER 31,
1968; NUMBER 5 SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ASSIGNMENTS INVOLVED BLACK
AND WHITE EXTREMIST MATTERS AND CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS,

C. “COINTELPRO; BLACK EXTREMISTS; RACIAL MATTERS," FILE
OPENED MARCH 7, 1968, ASSIGNED Sa JOHN C, MENTON, STILL PENDING TO
MENTON DECEMBER 31, 1968; NUMBER 5 SQUAD; IMMEDIATELY PRIOR ~SSIGN-
MENT SET OUT IN PRECEEDING PARAGRAPH.

BT

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 92


hee

‘ 1 ¥ -
a oe @
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL LDEVINE, OHIO {
atten r. FAUNTROY, Dice Srewanr b. MERON. ee) ed
YVONNE DRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
__ GuiisToPHER J. DoDD, CONN HiAmeLD &. SAWYER, MICH. :
Puovo a. Fira, no. Select Committee on Assassinations
OBER Wh. EDGAR, PAL -
(202) 225-4624. GS. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 * aa
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515
a
tJ PELL, ORD

The Honorable Griffin B.: Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department: of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530.

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General ~ 1,
Criminal Division . cane .
Room 2113 7

Dear Mr. Attorney General:
ay
By letter dated December 30, 1977, this Committee

requested material pertaining to Richard Geppert in

*." connection with the investigation into the death of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In view of the fact that
the Committee has since delivered to the FBI the written
consent of Mr. Geppert té viéw all materials relating to
‘his’ informant relationship with the FBI, it is intended
that our December 30th request for ‘materials. and
documents concerning Mr. Sait include those found in

any field office files.
“Your prompt attention to this ‘matter will be great] 9G |
appreciated. : F EREC-55 L a- ) 19 229 > ost

i ee
: A fiber oadrts. 7 JAN 88-4973

G. Robert Blakey "O°% ee memes ;
Chief Counsel and Director

bA-172F 0

ORIGIN BEL.

zn sure yrs” . .
Nw 65360 Docid:ia8049 Page 93 j i i



pg

ee : ie
f @o200™ e

Assistant Attorney General -
Criminal Division December 1, 1977
Attention: Mr. Robert lL. Keuch Mr. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

Director, FBI

|
!
i

PHRRE
tread

o)
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

yy cc

Reference is ae! to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, f Counsel and Director, ESCA,

dated Novenber 3, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's

investigation inte the death of Martin Luther King, Jr.,

requested certain information from FBI Headquarters files

. regarding the National States Rights Party (Item #2) and

a Jesse B. Stoner (Item #3). By letter from tir, Blakey to the
Attorney General dated November 8, 1977, modification of 7

- these items vas: made, detalls of which are outlined in the i)

enclosed memorandun.

palin eae
y Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum in response
to the above mentioned requests. It is requested that you
furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.
Enclosures - 2
r L - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)
win . G3 ~1/7A9O ~ 38K
| 0) JPA:sas (9) SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

\ een gtea+ 10 9Gn — ZAG ba

22 FEB 22 1978 ©

Assoc, Dir.

ved Adm, Serv... Legal Cow
pe Agee ut i Brlmctieca yr Plans & Ing
Dis F Rees Mgnt
Director____
‘os v Assoc. Dir_____ yf Specs ine 20 ere tee
. P Ge Dep, AD Adm. = "Tet, ens
: a «AD Inve Las vataing. aunt
q M Peet Pubse Ais, Gis
fotell, — DS : a i
Loborato: —_ .
Lege! Couns u t ge

sw er aos

OOM ELETYPE UNIT J 3- FB1/009
APrije 94 =

nw sah



| NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 95

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

_ NOPE: Since there were no National States. Rights Party (NSRP)
‘Bubfiles for offices requested by the HSCA, the entire NSRP
file for 1967 through 1968 was processed for access. All
information retrievable in FBI Headquarters files regarding
Stoner was processed.

Names of knowledgeable case agents provided in attached
memorandum were obtained through review of FBIHQ files and
confirmed by Supervisor Jack Byrd of the Savannah Office.

‘The HSCA can advise which agent(s) it desires to interview
regarding the NSRP and Stoner.



q a
rd] 3 Mr, Monahan

1 - Mr. Peelman a
1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

a0 Lends December 1, 1977

WY Washes Sehicac gay 1 - Legal Counsel

: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. &. HOUSH.OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

ark eT ese Ape

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney Gerieral
from G. Roberts Blakey, Chief Coumsél and Director, HSCA,
dated November 3; 1977, which requésted certain information
from FBL Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA's
investigation into the death of Nartin Luther King, Jr.
Under Item #2 of this letter information concerning the
National States Rights Party (NSRP), Marietta, Georgia, for
thé period 1967 through 1968, limited to areas covered by
offices in Savannah, Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, Memphis,
Tennessee, Birmingham, Alabama; St. Louis, Missouri, and
Springfield, Illinois, was requested. Under Item #3
ieakencna was requested concerning Jesse 3. Stoner.

By letter from Mr. Blakey to the Attorney. General
dated Noverber 8, 1977, the above requests were modified.
Under Item (e) this letter requested the FBI's complete file
on Stoner and that, the agent(s) in the Office of Origin
assigned to the Stoner investigation for the period 1966
through 1968 be made available for interview by the HSCA.
Concerning the NSRP, under Item (a): this. letter asked. the FBI

- $0 provide information in its files to cover the period 1967
through 1968. In addition, the ¢ase agent(s) in the Office
oe for the same period would be made available for
interview.

. In response to the above requests, information in.
FBI Headquarters files concerning the NSRP (period 1967 through
1968) and Jesse B, Stoner have been processed and are
available for review at FBI Headquarters. by the HSCA.. Where
information. is not provided, it is either not retrievable fr at
Assoc. Di, FBI Headquarters files or ig not being produced. p ant t

Fauve Memorandum of Understanding. i \
Dep. AD ny

Asst Din Tease)

hice. CC fORIGINAL AND SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL
“Fin. & Per. DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT“. -KEUCH, AND ONE SENT TO

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistang Attorney General,
rain, criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L.’ Keuch, dated 12/1/77,
Ree Mont. captioned, “House Select Comme on Asvaszinations, U . S. House

> See mot | (HSCA)." W958 90 : = 33 kx,
Training,
Public Affs. Off A? o a, 7
Discos Serv Be coos ch” Lot. owe THeLOSURE 4

fe1/DO3

65360 Docld:32989749 Page 96



Touse Bolect Committee on Assassinations i
W. 8, Fouce of Representatives (HSCA)

The Savannah Office of the FHI was Office of Origin
in botit the IiSkP and Stoner investigation durine the period of
SCA interest. Whe following agents of that office were
ease agents in the Stoner investigation: Carlton Dillard,

3 January, 1966 ~ April 1967; Willian 2. Friday, April, 1967 -

Cetover, 1967: John H. Uurphy, Cetober 1967 - September, 1969.
With variation of only a few days, these same Agents were
Gace pAcents in the investication of the NSRP. Dillard is now
retired. Friday and Nurphy are currently assigned to the
Savannah Office and are scheduled to retire Deeonber 31, 1977.

APphovedy | ~

Birectt. E Fin, & Pors___
Assoc. Dire. Hen “Spoo. Inv,

Dep. AD Ads nto, Te Se ;
AD A rechs
Dep..AD tnve= =. Laboratory. Teasing is

Publis Affs. Gif

Cc

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 97



ger snc ean As PAUNT HOT, Di. «TEFEWAnT b, MCHirvey, ConM,
CHanbes THOME, NEON,
HAROLD 8, BAWYEH, MICH,

Select Committee | esassinations
7 G@o2yazstozs. : G.&. Wouse of Representatives — ~ ¢
re i 333! HOUSE OFFI \UILOING, ANNEX 2,

Wasnimcten.D.c. 20515 Ally yf 5 :

HONS WF

The Honorable Griffin .R. Bell ji : ate
Attorney General of the United States - SeFSSETSRUSHESESETS=oSsESEECSENC

Department of Justice ot i
Washington, D-C. 20530 :
7 sare

Rttention: Mr. Robert LL. Keuch aoe
Sry Deputy Assistant Attorney EEE EEE eee :

Moos : Criminal Division. : SEH EEE bee
Room 2113 / : CHEE peerecersn

‘ * “Dear. Mr. attorney General? hittl : _ .

peenee Pursuant to our investigation into. the assassination
of Dr. Martin Luther King, ore, we hereby request that all
reports, materials and files in the possession of the F.B.I.

H pertaining to the “following individuals and organizations _

. be made available to the Committee and its staff:

a

ae Lawrence J. Callanan (deceased) Steamfitters 7
7 Union (AFL) Local 562, St. Louis, Mo. for ;the eerehae
Period 1967 through 1971. : :

A

24 National States Rights ‘Party, 591 Cherokee,
Marietta, Georgia, for the period 1967 through -
1968, but limited to reports and information ‘in

. areas covered by offices in Savannah, Ga.; Atlanta,:
.Ga.; Memphis, Tn.; Birmingha am, Al.; St. Louis, Mo.;
——and_Springfield, Ill. ees

3. “Jesse B- Stoner, 591 Cherokee, N.W., Marietta, Ga.
, Gleth « Conservative Society of america for the period 7
Le Re) 1967 through 1968. (Headquarters in New Orleans, “ia.”

5. Kent’ Courtney,” 1413 Texas ‘Ave: Sale Ae OXF La. 3 Bar
7 lox: jig the a 1967 through 1948lo SGD

HD: 4
A—NTAD = 3, ENCLOSURE, 29
‘ 6. KKK Hoes ABIX oxts. Or information in areas
covered by offices in Birmingham, Rishama, Los Angeles,
3 + Atlanta, Georgia and Louisville, Rencucky

Califor:
NW, 65360 . Docld:32989749 ByYeigad the period 1967 throuch 1968)



7. Morris Davis, RFD, Hoover, Shelby County, Ala.
oh | i

8. White Citizens Council (racist organization) for the
" , period 1967 through 1968, limited to reports or
information in areas covered by offices in New Oxleans,
La.;: Birmingham, Ala.; and Memphis, Tenn.
 g, Forever White, (racist organization) for the period
1967 through 1968, limited to xeports or information .
in areas-covered by offices in New Orleans, La;
Baton Rouge, La-; Bixmingham, Ala.; and Memphis, Tenn.

10. Charles Joseph Stein, dob 5/11/29 -

2. Percy Belcher, ex-deputy Sherif£, Birmingham, ‘alabama, :
for the period 1967 through 1968. : Hi

peteeetteee 17 Robert Powers, Powers Junction, Intersection. Highways
: Il and 90, Orleans Parrish, Louisiana, for: the period

1967 through 1968. ead

daeeeanaeendraet? " gam DiPiazza, Pamela Place, Chalmette, Louisiana,

.« "7 . 7. . £or the period 1967 through 1968. :

14. Dr. Lucas DiLeo - (office) 8603 St. Bernard Highway,
Chalmette, Louisiana, for the period 1967 through 1968.

a5. Salvadore L. Licciardi (biccardi), New eaeeatae Louisiane
for the period | 1967 through 1968. - :
idabeasteseceeszecae® <)°4 Gus Joseph Prosch, dob, 11/17/30, 3122 callecita, 7
. oo. Sacremento, California. (Arrested in Birmingham,
: sro Alabama in December, 1971 and convicted of violating
a . “Gun Control Act in 1972.) ;

. “37. Quentin B. Davis, owner of Gun Rack, Birmingham,
Alabama for the period 1967 through 1968.
Spa CLIEford Andrews (aka; RI LT warrén),,” Box” 75," toronto”
JA, ‘Ontario, Canada. 5 ‘i :
ae 19. Waltes Jack‘ Youngblood, Monticello Stréet, Dallas, Texas.
os te
20, Johnny Benelli, 3303, 175 North Orange Drive, Los
cee Angeles, California, for.the period 1967 through 1968.

22. Claud Cockrell, dob 5/10/36, FBI #°389804E, for the
period 1967 through 1968.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 99°_. : : :



22.

23.

24,

ac 25.

x + 26.
en.
"28.
os

30.
a.

33.
7)
34.

Hel ‘California for the period 1967 through 1968.

te

NW 65360° Docid:32989749 Page 100,

Gene Pearson Crawford, dob 10/2/27 for ‘the
period 1967 ‘through 1968. . _

Fleet Edwards, dob 2fAa/2i § for the- périod paudkata
through 1968.

Raoul Esquivel ~ (Raul Victor Esquibel), dob
21/17/26, 4524 Parsimnon, Metairie, La. (This

“xequest includes, but is Pas limited to, ‘Bureau ..

File 44-26940.)
Southern Christian Leadership Conference .

a. General file, for the period 1962
_ through 1968. .

abe Cointelpxro file, for the period 1962 serra
: through 1968.

” James Bevel, for the period 1965 through 1968.

Rev: Jessie Jackson, Chicago, Ill., for the period

- 1965 through | 1968.

Vincent DePaul stelly, 4434 sth Ave., ‘tos

. Angeles, California for the period 1967 through 1968.

Jerome Wallis Vernon Home SexrVice Laundry and
Dry Cleaning, 5280 Hollywood Blvd., Los Angeles;

Rev. James Orange, South Carolina for the ‘period

°1965 through 1968.

Rev. Bernard Lee, Atlanta, Ga., “for the period. .
_ 1365 through 1968. -- :

ALIan Lee Stoddard, -*"Vegas -Club", -5510-Hollywood. o 4
Bivd., Los Angeles, sraiussaeitinull for the period. 1967
throuch 1968.

Robert: Byron ‘Watson, “sse 253-85-2220, Atlanta, Ga.
Xe
Martin Luther King, Jx. for the period 1962 through
1968. (This request pertains to material exclusive
of the Murkin File and the SCLC files and should

‘incluée all information regarding threats to Dr.

King. ‘ . Le



35. Herman A. Thompson, 10454 Goodwood Blvd.,
Baton Rouge, La-., (former deputy sheriff in
Baton Rouge) . ° 7

“4. mae “your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly |
. appreciated. : :
zi : pee “Very truly yours,

G. Robert Blakey
. Chief Counsel and Dixector *

|. GRB:MCB:ek caeeee SA PeSa GH Ee
ec: Mr. Danny O. Coulson : paecSeect

IW 65360" Bocld:32989749 Page 101 i 7 aes

AV


Nonorable Griffin B. Pell. MECC
ey General of the United State:
ant of Justice

: Washington, Dp. ce 20520: i ae 7 ieee reel = St : <= ponent
Attention: Mr. Robert Es xen choo.

: : ; _ Beput; istant Attorney General
wt Ctiminal Divi. ision, Room 2113. oh
Dear Hx. Attoxnacy Generals BGR UENiEERENESUADAAARGBGUSRIEEAER

£.Dr. Martin.
was: ci en 7, 1877
mbexrs, i

ats Novert

staff to discuss the

: of xveaquest fox FRY materials ¢n thirty-five individuals dr ..
oxg

nizations. As a xosult of this meeting, the following...
was ues jolved: vee

sees tee pe ser| aa i :

“yequests as they were.
le

¥ stated in

-13524, 26, 28-33 .and 35.0 2.

(a) ‘She FST would
Le)

sors 1, @, 5, Te 9-2 7

(b) She Ce
individuals in
process

no. 12)
no. 27) is

on, the,
I bia

Of biz
708 22 and a before the Fi

& dob on Robert J. Powers 3
Phe éob on Reverend Jesse Jackson.

ttee would rrovi.de

ests

(ce) Besides prod lete Eile on seqguest no,-3

(Jésge RB. Stoner), th would also make available the nost '
appropudate cvs .. jeo CE oxigin. assigned &

Stoner for

La cuse seank(s

” : ALLL.
AHI GOT E .
+ CLOSURE :Ga- W749 - - JEAX

_NW 65360 Docld:32589749 Page 102 :

- 3, 1977 otter “1°

the November 3xa_.:



hold 3
List

of bp

in 39

standing. :
the Co: materials xe

to the tn asia os : 7 and 12
be made

(£)
advise the ¢
porting on the Waite Chtize

be made as to the 2

n¥
bafoxe
request eee

the Co
Pane makes available €
dn geestio: les ee

(g} to redqucsk no.
hold in abeyance. a request wnt EAL
the most appropriate case

“(@) -
requests t

3

xest no. 34
“Goath

With respect to nec
ba files on De..

materials is

an abeyance entil:
the mo. ost a

© case agent (s). eEEnBEey

Xn Ad@ition,. the Committee Wor
following agents be not:

Rest that the
by the FBI: 20.

O..ALSG
ed. .and made avai

V1) Special. Agent liiam PB. Kusch ~
1 ‘ Special Agont Thomas EB. .Duha

(2) Special Agent Jack B. Sim msen =~ #
Special Rich: za a Ricohinaa
Special

px
fo. owing, ‘three Louisville ¥
"1965:

DH aL Beegr ee ny:
mth of Se Teeny

(1) Robert peters © Se PnESENaIESTSPSREESEESEREGESaETTPEr3 ; .
“(2)) Willian Duncan ' Hee SpPAu/EREPGEISESETEREEPSEEDS 7

ate. 7 -

65360 Docld:32989749 Page 103



Vary truly yours, sesrepareresstranscar'es

ri :
. G Robert Blakey seeraseeret -
A Chief Counsel and Director

co Mr. Danny 0. Coulson. i

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 104 7 anna



fi

t

Be SANZ 1g

Assoc, Dit.
Dep. AD Adm

of

Dep. ‘AD Tnv.
¥ .
ae LIMITED OFFICIAL USE FBB6@5
PAGE G1 STATE 019886 din td 7 ou tH 40
RECEIVED
ORIGIN EUR- ; FEDER
12 GOVERFNENE é DERAL site

COMMUIICATICNS SECTION

INFO OCT-91 IS0-@@° H-@1 L-93 MCT-@1 JUSE-@2 FBIE-99
INR-37 /925 R

DRAFTED BY EUR/NE: JPSHUMATE
APPROVED BY EUR/NE: RLFUNSETH
H - ASCHNEE (BY PHONE)

tala atetatetatetetedatel ---G15192 1419122 /18
R 1492262 JAN 78°
FM SECSTATE WASHDC
TO AMEMBASSY LONDON

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE STATE 919886

E.0. 11652:N/A
J

TAGS:PINR, PDIP, UK

REC-@ La - IIIA 4o 80

, we VN 1S 1978
SUBJECT sREQUEST FROM HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINA~ | un emeew

Q5,
TIONS TO MEET WITH BRITISH POLICE AUTHORITIES e
fakobesel ;
: <

0_Docld:32989749 lst 105



MEET,AT THE EARLIEST. POSSIBLE MOMENT, WITH RESPONSIBLE MEM~-
BERS OF NEW SCOTLAND YARD WHO ARE KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT ITS
PARTICIPATION IN THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF DR.

1

‘MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE RESULTING CAPTURE OF JAMES

"EARL RAY IN LONDON ON JUNE 8, 1968 AND ANY FURTHER INVESTI-
GATION FOLLOWING HIS CAPTURE. WE WILL BE HAPPY TO MEET WITH

THOSE REPRESENTATIVES IN GREAT BRITAIN TO PROVIDE ANSWERS
0 THE QUESTIONS RAISED BY AMBASSADOR BREWSTER'S TELEGRAM.

AGAIN, WE EMPHASIZE THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE AND WOULD
APPRECIATE YOUR ARRANGING FOR SUCH A MEETING AS SOON AS

POSSIBLE. VERY TRULY YOURS, G. ROBERT BLAKEY." END QUOTE.

CAN EMBASSY ASCERTAIN WHETHER THE BRITISH AUTHORITIES WILL
PERMIT AN INTERVIEW BETWEEN MEMBERS OF THE STAFF OF THE

SELECT COMMITTEE AND APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS WHO PARTICIPATED
IN THE INVESTIGATION MENTIONED IN BLAKEY'S LETTER AND
ADVISE US. VANCE

NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 106



ASSISTANT SECRETARY BE rm) HAS RECEIVED THE FoLL.ow1 @LET-

_TER FROM Go ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND DIRECTOR, SE-
“LECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS: QUOTE: "DEAR MR. SECRE-

“TARY:

;
MANY THANKS FOR YOUR LETTER OF DECEMBER 9, 1977 ENCLOSING A
TELEGRAM FROM AMBASSADOR BREWSTER.

AS YOU KNOW, THE LIFE OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE IS LIMITED TO

THE LIFE OF THE 95TH CONGRESS. IT IS THEREFORE IMPERATIVE
THAT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE BE ALLOWED TO

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

Wi 65260 Docid:32989749 Page 107



ei % |

Select Conunittee on Assassinations

GS. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

LOUIS STOKES, OM, cw
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. HE, O10
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. om INNEY, CONN.
YVONNE DRATIOWAITE BURKE, CALIF, 'S THONE, NEDR,
ARO!

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN, LO 5. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J, FITHIAN, IND,

ROBERT W. EOGAR, PAL

(202) 225-4624

January 9, 1978
7RDERAL covERMAREY i

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In ‘connection with the investigation of the House Sele&t
Committee on’ Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin Luth
King, Jr., it would be appreciated if you could make availabi

. to the Committee staff, access to the following:

1. All files, materials, and information relating
to William Hugh Morris, the alleged leader of
the Federated KKK in Alabama.

a) Address (late 1950's)

2128 East Fifth Street

Oak Park

Montgomery, Alabama: -.--- . © |

b) Jefferson County Alabama
Sheriff's Office Number 52811

Your prompt attention to this request willbe gre: é
appreciated. : 6 Q- TOES: 29s -

Respectfully

$ x. REC-3

TREAT AS
ORIGINAL

GRB;ghk

oe

Danny Coulson

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 108

14 JAN 18 1978

Es ei

|
G. Robert Blakey “4
Chief Counsel and Director j

b4-1172F0



LOUIS STOKES, OW10 gagsatnu)
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. INE, O10
WALTER E. TAUNTROY, D.C. pnt De mcnintr, COM.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE DURKE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NEDR..
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. HAROLD &, SAWYER, MICH

HAROLO E, FORD, TENN.

Foro 3. Fimtia%, IND, Select Committee on Assassinations

ROBERT W. EDGAR, MA. Se
(202) 225-4028 GS, Mouse of Representatibes
(3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

: January 5, 1978

() The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States.
Department of Justice . 7 To
Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113.

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is-re-

- quested that the F.B.I. make available for interview, on a

priority basis, the following agents:

1. Theodore A'Hearn - Los Angeles yuh ae
2. Leroy W. Sheets ~ Los Angeles

3. Thomas J. Wilson - ‘Atlanta

4, Gerald Galbreath - El Paso

The Committee is ready to interview these agents on an
immediate basis.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly
appreciated.

Sincerely,

ee ed

G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director °

é |
fC: Danny O. Coulson 64-1 72P 0 2 4, |
GRB: wwd eos rc CT ae é

TREAT As : 1S JAN 18 1978 é
ORSE/WV AL. : ;

}
‘
|
;
Set ts ;
NWY-65360 DoclaawesfaPage 109 : : BEEEEaEne?



de

sheetiees, OH10, Caesar
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. FO
WALTER E. FAUNTAOY, D.C.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE. funn, caur, CHARMS THOME, ESR
CHRISTOPHER 3. DODD, CONN. HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E, FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J, FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EOGAR, PAL

[eet eam Select Committee on Assassinations

GH. Bouse of Representatives
3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2 7
‘WASHINGTON, Di Ce Roacichd +

(202) 225-4628

; January 4, 1978 7
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT . : : a

HAND DELIVER

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell
Attorney General of the United States
Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Attention:

” Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is -re-
quested that the F.B.I. make available to the Committee’ ffi
access to all F.B.1I. materials, files, memoranda, airtels, and
miscellaneous items, including but not limited to any con-
tained in the MURKIN File (44-38861), on or referring to the :
following individual:

Gerold Frank ~+ author
d.o.b. 8/2/1907

NW 65360 Docid<

930
New

current address:

It is requested that access
- vided on a priority basis so that
completed by January 16, 1978.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

Respectfully,

> Wpbeod EQ

appreciated.
TRE AS :
OR/6 (174 LO “easy G.
GRB:ghd REC 28

Danny Coulson
L"

58 JAN 24 1679

49 Page 110

Chief Counsel and La or
G2-INZQI me

5th Avenue
York, New York 10021

to these materials be pro-
our initial review can be
iN

Robert Blakey

«7 JAN 2? 1978

werresenes + eect)



\

Gatton © eauiney, Bee SMtvare or mevaney, comn

rue stamnrcbunnt,cAUF, SAREE THE, NEG Harv nee
Eunisvonnen 3. D090, CON roars MICH —
FLOYD 9. ERA, IND. Select Committee on Assassinations
pacuaibanatesiany ~—aSr Hause of Representatives 4

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 30 1977

all AL RIVE fe
\ The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States JAN 4 itp
i Department of Justice i
Washington, D.C. 20530 , 4
OLA

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr, Attorney General: © : : 7

jee In connection with the investigation by this Committee WA
into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it has been
ileseea determined from a review of the Chicago field office file
: (No. 44-1114) of the MURKIN investigation that the FBI is
in possession of several letters of correspondence from
. Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters. (See, for example, serials
271, 335, 496, 560, 574, 621, and 637 ‘in the Chicago field
office file.) It is requested that the FBI furnishsthis
Committee with copies of all correspondence from Jerry Ray
to Marjorie Fetters.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly a
appreciated. ST195 REC-SY C o-)
12 bed ae on
Very truly yours,

Jt Var Cealre 23 JAN 10 178 \ 4
ise r G. Robert Blak. 6BS= FISTS.
y hEA 7 AS : Chies counsel and. icDinector.
ORIEINA CX : QF REGISATIVE AFFAIRS

4

cc: Danny O. Coulson
JAN 8 1978

GRB:mek : 7
0.7.0.M,...

“FEDERAL BU, OF Ww

itd Whos. ; EEE : ‘ o



Select Committers on Assassinations
GH. Bouse of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.c. 20515

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

Mr. Danny 0. Coulson

Federal Bureau of Inyestigation
J. Edgar Hoover Building

10th & Constitution Ave., N.W.
Washington; D.C. 20530 .



FEDERAL (OVERNMERT

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division October 3, 1977
Attention; Mr. Robert L. Keuch Mr. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

Director, PBI

BPRERPH
brane

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Moy
Reference is made to’ the letter from U. S.°

Congressman Louis Stokes, Chdirman, HSCA, to the Attorney..

General, dated August 9, 1977, requesting availability of”

all FBI *peports relative to robbery of the Bank of Alton,

Alton, Illinois, duly 13, 1967.. Reference is also made to ,
the letter from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, HSCA, to f
Hr. Robert Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, dated
September 13, 1977, requesting a copy of all FBI reports
in this bank robbery investigation. ° a cn

Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which
responds to the above HSCA request. It is requested that
you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 2 ST:129 RFC-45 C2 - 119 aye -3 dl

va ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enelosure)
26.5. 9 i978

oi ay ia weer pine

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO
Aa pr) / y/7 \
7 po

U
a colt ME
APPROVED! ; feel ¢ i
re Sug: ar aap
Loget Coun, — Dep. AD Ait, Intell, Teoh. Servs_—__—

Plan. & Inspe me

(ZR Laboratory—.== —Training___—_—
Roc. Ment Bop. AD Indy eran Publis Atfer 8tf—
Spec. Inve

Trolning —— &

Poblic Affs, Off. JX . ve os ‘ :

Telephone Ret. — taf ; jj
FBI/DOs

ROOM TELETYPE UNIT (
“wwe BN id: Sidon!’



Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch . -

NOTE: The Alton bank robbery occurred at the time James Earl
Ray was a fugitive, prior to King's assassination. Ray was
considered a suspect in this robbery subsequent to being
identified as King's killer. No evidence was producéd to link
Ray with the robbery. The case was closed unsolved in 1972.

In its request of 8/9/77, the HSCA asked for access.
to our investigation into this bank robbery and the file was
prepared. Later, the HSCA submitted a second request which
requested “a copy of any and all materials or reports" in the
Alton bank robbery. Mr. Kéuch advised on 9/19/77, that
delivery should be limited only to investigative reports in the
case. The requested material was picked up at FBIHQ on a
9/19/77 by Oliver Champion, HSCA messenger. Purpose of
enclosed memorandum is to gonfirm delivery of this material.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 114



Mr. Monahan
Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr! Aldhizer
October 3, 1977
1 - Legal Counsel

preere

RPRREE

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

This will respond to letter dated August 9, 1977,
to the Attorney General from U. S. Congressman Louis Stokes,
Chairman, HSCA, and letter dated September 13, 1977, to
iy. Robert Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, from
G, Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, HSGA.

This letter is to confirm that, pursuant to the
above request dated September 13, L977, a copy of each
investigative report of the FBI in the Alton bank robbery,
Alton, Illinois, duly 13, 1967, was delivered to a
representative of the HSCA on September 19, 1977.

a:sas, (9)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH AND ONE SENT TO
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

NOTE: See Direcotr, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

10/3/77, captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations,
qr" U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)."

Assoc, Di,

TS Saaikcs 7 Sphemmergns

APPROVED!

Director______-

Logal som til
Assoc. Dif_____
Public Affs, Off.

Dep. AD Adm.———-_Infall- ;
ty Pop. AD Inv. - ain :
Pr 2
‘elephone Rin. — Re sont /
Diecate Sr MAIL ROOM ed unit ENCLOSU Ga- /) ? 2 ? ° > dl Fersp09,

_ NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 115

Leget Coun,
Plon, & tn

Training.



t
1
Cuaanae Lous: sroRes, oxo, CHAIRMAN i i

rconosdh rnsvien, 2 SAMUEL L. OFVINE, O10 :
Erewant bs MERIT, CON 7 L
Siances TwONe, Neon. .
HAROLD &. SAUIVER, MCR. tt .
7 Select Committee on Assassinations
(202) 228-4624 GS. Mouse of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

August 9, 1977,
Re “CEIVED -
SUBz ior

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell MN;
Attorney General of the United States i
Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20430

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

Pursuant to our investigation into “the assassina-
tion of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we request that
you make available to us all investigative reports
relative to the robbery of the Bank of Alton, Illinois,
on July 13, 1967.

Best wishes and kind regards, I am

Sincerely,

EME: ek
e 5

Ut he AAGICO
10-32-77 :
TTA: ave
1+ OLA:

RES Dv

xs
hd
ia
Qa
8

Ga-I1929 oe
tere OSURE

1d:32989749 Page 116° Atel



ee ©

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

HICHAROSON PREYER, NC.” = SAMUEL L. DEVI!  }
Wacren e: ravirenoY, 0:¢- Seevaten. Me
SRome sncrnanre bugs chur Gunes THOM :
ij ‘CHRISTOPHER J. 50D, CONN, HAROLD S, SAWYER, Tact 7 7 .
reovo a. frmntan, Select Committee on Assassinations sy
SOMERT W. EDGAT, PAL 7 : :
{00 205-4628 GS. House of Representatives _

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2.
_ WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

September 13, 1977

Mr. Robert Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney. General -
Criminal Division

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Keuch:

Pursuant to the investigation into the death of
j. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. by the ‘House Select Committee
sn s _ on Assassinations and our conversation with your office on
Monday, September 12, 1977, we are hereby requesting a copy
of any and all materials or reports thé Federal Bureau of
Investigation has regarding the Alton Bank Robbery in Alton,
4 : Illinois on July 13, 1967; as well as a copy of any other
|Puseest materials the Department of Justice may have in its
7 possession relevant to this matter.

- -“E ‘appreciate. your’-cooperation and assistance in this
' -xequest, and I look foxward hearing from you.

. Sincerely,
fel dled CbaLees
: : : .  G, Robert Blakey
. | Chief Counsel and Director

SUL/GRB/aij J

ba: nosa—1E

eNCLOSURE

ine 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 117



C) HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

sf

FEDERAL COVERNMEN
Assistant Attorney General bd =
Criminal Division November 10, 1977
Attention: Mr. Robert b euch

Mr. Monahan
: Mr. Peelman
Director, FBI Mr. Foster

Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsél

BREE
pride

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)
ond

Reference is ma to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, lef Counsel and Director, HSCA,
dated October 18, 1977; requesting access to material in the
files of the FBI "pertinent to seven listed individuals.

Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which responds
to the above request and advises that material on six of these
individuals is available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.
Information on the seventh individual, Randolph Erwin Rosenson,
was previously furnished the HSCA by FBI memorandum cereal
October 13, 1977.

Enclosures ~ 2

1 = Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

a
At he
Olata:sas
G9) SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Astos. Dir. ——
Dep. AD Adm. —
Dep. AD Inv. —

Asst Din
Adm. Servs ——

Crim, Inv,

Adm. Serv Logel & nf

7 Zs.
Legel Coi APPROVEDS Grim. Inve" Plane & Inspe-_—__——
Plone & lsh Director. ’ Fin, & Pers = nee - ~
Assoc. Dit tdent.__________ Spee. inv

Tech. Servs
Dop. AD A Intel_.
Laberatory=—. Teatning.
od ie, Debs AD Inve ST pale Bite ae

Public Affe ofS en =
Telephone Rr — we AEG TN ue’: ter a
wr es See's xf IL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT (] tb y .

eHolANded 9749 Page 118

FBI/DOJ +


Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: By request dated 9/20/77; the HSCA asked for information
concerning Rosenson. By letter to the Attorney General and

its enclosures, both dated 10/13/77, information concerning
Rosenson. was delivered. The HSCA request dated ‘10/18/77 ».
(attached) desired information on seven individuais, including
a repeat on Rosenson's name.

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 119



ee ® ]

- Mr. Monahan
Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster

Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

November 10, 1977

rrud

1
1
1
1
1

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS’
U. S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA).

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General
from @. Robert, Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,
dated October 18, 1977, requesting access to material in the
filles of the FBI * pertaining tor

Harvey Gene Love

George G. Pittman
Stephanie Helene Sheehan
Jonathon Henry Shea
Kelth Albert Wright
Frank Quenqui

Randolph Erwin Rosenson

Retrievable information in FBI. Headquarters files
_conecerning the above individuals, with the exception of
Rosenson, has been prepared for the Committee's access
subject to the usual excisions or deletions. Where information
is not provided, it 1s either not retrievable from
Headquartérs files or is not being produced pursuant to the
Memorandum of Understanding.

By FBI memorandum datéd October: 13, 1977, documents
containing information concerning Hoséenson were provided the:

iPien ALL INDO ANT
JTA:sas (9)
py?

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT APTORNEY GENERAL, ‘CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH AND ONE SENT TO
| Auea din OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Dep. AD Adne—
Meow” NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

abn lea ror Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

fink Pan 1/10/77, captioned, "House Select Committee on. wa

Sa

ldet.___-U. S. House of ‘Representatives, (HSCA).

2=)/9.9.9 > —

2p URE Adm, Sérve—__.Loged cor. 00) JAF
Crim. Inv Plan. & Insp
\ Direstor_—____ Fin. & Pers Ree. ‘i —

Spew Inv,

As Assoc. Din dant,
u\ Dep. AD At Intel Tech Servs._\
Poblic Affs, Off. oe Dep, AD In Laboratory Training____
MAIL ROOM

| Telephone fis — Public Affs, Off.__.
\ Director's Sec'y — TELETYPE unit C] yt + = eBi/Des
\NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 120 : vba os



SOETCLE NOTE
LS. Wouse of Representatives

i : (202) 225-4624
Sow q@ 3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDIWQMBANNEX 2 3

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

October 18, 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell pes t he
Attorney General. Pree

U. S. Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

Attn: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the Select Committee's investigation
‘into the circumstances surrounding the death of Martin Luther
King, it would be-appreciated if you could make available to
the Committee staff materials, in the files of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation relating to the following individuals
for the period of time from January 1, 1967 to December 31, ~.
Saha SEF :
v ‘A

1 -
ll NAME . Date of Birth  FBI.Number
on ‘ove, Harvey-Gene - 4/1/35 592-813A
vy -Pittman, George G. _ 6/20/38 919~-933C
tg J Sheehan; Stephanie Helene ' 1/26/53 “951-133N4 fiesseauetacy
wl “Shea, Jonathon Henry 6/12/47 688-95852
Wright, Keith Albert - 1/27/44 . 122-7508
uengui, Frank 12/9/08 : 160-8374
Rosenson, Randolph: Erwin 3/20/34 Seeeee

In addition, i “would be appreciated if you could make
available to the staff the criminal records for these individ-
uals, This written request confirms, an oral request made by
myself to Mr. Dan Coulson on October 18, 1977 in the offices
of the’ Committee.

Thank you.
Respectfully,
G. Robert Blakey *
Chief Counsel and Director
. GRB:DM
copy to: Dan Coulson °
- sa naglto euoLosung
A077 Ent 2) (ai 117290 -

VIA Ag
KPrsovo Docld:32989749 Page 121



ee ie (aaa

Assistant Attorney General FEDERAL coverwymyy
Criminal Division November 11, 1977

Attention: Hr. Robert L. Keuch Me. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. Aldhizer
Legal Counsel

Director, FBI

O

> _ HOUSE SELECT COMMETTER ON ASSASSINATIONS
() U. S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

PRRRH
preiae

from G. Robert Blakey, Chilef Counsel and Director, HSCA,.

dated November 7, 1977,’requesting confirmaticn as to the

existence or nonexistence of electronic surveillance regarding
certain individuals and a business in connection with the FBI's
investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. i

a
Reference is made letter to the Attorney General

= Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which Td
responds to the above request. Yt

Enclosures — 2
1 ~ Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure) [0

(tee
Par; s00 540 i | a

(9) A SEE NOTE PAGE 2 :

a fee Zo
APPROVED! 7 sel tom MM

a

g Direstor__ Fin, &
Assoc, Bin dent
< Dep, AD Adm Is

Rep AD Inv Laboratory

REC-55 = a
aaa f s1320 bo 112240 |
— f po hae 23. Jan 10 tare |

Rs pe i IAN 1

Uh
A"

Tech. Serv: ‘de >

Trtntng 1 us Pe ATT,
Public Affe, Off 7
Telephone Ri 6 wo : Aa
OD SAN 1 Oalstertoon TELETYPE UNIT
Page 122

NW 65360 Docl

Assoc. Dirt mame

|

Plon. & Insp. =
Rees Mgnt.

fai 0 Usvince
SBA

EC

SS FBI/DOU



Assistant Attorney General
Cfiminal Division
Attention: Mr. Robert L., Keuch

NOTE: By memorandum dated 5/13/68, the Department was

asked for authority to place technical surveillance on the
telephones of James Earl Ray's brother-in-law and sister;
Albert and Carol Pepper and the Grapevine Tavern, all located
in St. Louis, Missouri. This memorandum also requested
microphone surveillance be installed at the résidencé of Albert
and Carol Pepper, the residence of Ray's brother ; John Larry
Ray, and at the Grapevine Tavern. FBIHQ files contain no
information to indicate the Department of Justice took any.
action on this request. Following Ray's apprehension the
Department, in memorandum dated 6/11/68, was advised that the
FBI's request for electornic surveillance was withdrawn.

The above information is contained in the King Assassination June
file and has been processed for access of the HSCA.

The HSCA's request of 11/7/77, desired only written
confirmation as to the existence or nonexistence of electronic 7
surveillance on the above individuals and business during the
period 1/1/67 to 12/31/68.

)



1 - Mr. Monahan
1 - Mr. Peelman
1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

Hoven 1090597

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference 18s made to letter to the Attorney General
from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,
dated November 7, 1977, requesting confirmation as to the
existence or nonexistence of eléétronic survéillance against
the following individuals. and business in connection with:

the FBI's irivestigation into the assassination of Martin Luther
King, Jr:

1. Jerry Ray, brother of James Earl Ray.
2s John Ray, brother of James Earl Ray.

3. Carol Pepper, sister of James Earl Ray,
and her husband Albert Pepper.

4, Grapevine Tavern (also kyiown as Jack's Place),
1982 Arsenal, St. Louis, Missouri.

This: memorandum. is to confirm that, based on a
review of appropriate files at FBI Headquarters, the above:
were not subjects of electronic surveillance by the FBI during
the period January 1, 1967, to December 31, 1968, or at any

ther time.
oe sreeencteeg HECTRIATION CONTAINED

DA: BTN 18 GuCLAGSIgIED
Qh atarsag y 59) PARNENNGS DSR
ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL
DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH AND ONE SENT TO
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFATRS.

Asoc Dn NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,
wn criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 11/11/77,
Asn dix Captioned, “House Select Committee. on Assassinations, U. Ss.

Ain Sem-House of +e (HSCA)."

RUSE Beeson see) Se RRR SR Weel

Fin, & Pers, =

N\ APPROVED: “RPT uf) ___—_ Legal

Iéent._—_—
Intell Tosh, Servs

) — aa

ja. : 3 z _——$<_$<—_—-
Lsoratery__—_——_Training___——_

ia Be ih stant Public Affs. Off our

Poblic Affs. Off ve sure’

Telephone Rin. =
+ ecg Sey MAIL ROOM" TELSTYPE UNIT CI) ENGL iat (- ye-/ 0) R407 Gh
NW 65360 Docid:32989749 Page 124



4

*
; LOUIS STOKES, O10, CHARSMAN
<RIOURDSON PREYER, HE.

aor x INE, OHIO .
: ics voRinEY, CONN. _
<1 Ydane onariwatre abate, eatin, ou c, Neon. . coe

e

“WALTER 1. FAUNTHOY.

2 Enmsrorticn 9, D000, cove feamotD 8. sawyer, MIEN. il ae
Sioroa cen, oe Select Committee on Assassinations

- eeeeeeet US.: if Representatives

7 (202) 225-4624 U.S. Mouse of Repre:

* "3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
“WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

NOV TT

“The Honorable Griffin R. Bell
Attorney General of the United states
“Department of Justice

-Washington,. D.C. 20530

(eaiererinns6 varenindtianieabinneendterenss eNPblin. care.

Attention: . Mr. Robert’ L. Keuch sesieveteyone
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
- Criminal Division : Pee
-Room 2113 : ‘ a Peet

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select
Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin
Imther King, Jr., it is requested that the Federal Bureau
o£ Investigation review its files -on electronic surveillance
to determine whether any of the following individuals and°
places were the subject of such surveillance during the
period of January 1, 1967 to December 31, 1968:

1. Jexxy Ray, brother of James Earl Ray
2. John Ray, brother of James Earl Ray

3. Carol Pepper, sister of James Earl Ray,
and her husband Albert Pepper

4. Grapevine Tavern (also known as Jack's Place),
1982 Arsenal, St. Louis, Missouri

At this time the Committee only desires a written
confirmation as to the existence or non-existence of such
-electronic surveillance with no reference to the ‘results
of such survei’lance.

hepa i
Wul77° FE sta)

one aca udschse idaaaittunsicdaodlaihta tn

NW -65360--Doeld:32989749-. -Rage.125 _



Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly
appreciated. : eae
: Very truly yours,
G. Robert Blakey s :
_ Chief Counsel and Director
GRB:mea i

ce Mr. Danny O. Coulson

1d:32989749 Page 126 : =



~ Mr. Long - “Enc.f
- Mr. Foster - Enc.
- Mr. Mintz - Eng. .
FEDERAL COVERMAERE - Mr. Hotis - Enc.

The Deputy Attorney General December 29, 1977

Director, FBI
(42
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

In accordance with Attorney General Order
116-56, this memorandum advises that former Special Agent
doe C. Hester was intérviewed on November 21, 1977.
ME» Hester's. account of this
‘your information.

Enclosure

1» Assistant Attorney General ~ Enclosure
Criminal Division
Attn: Robert Keuch

1 - Personnel file - Joe C, Hester ~ Enclosure

ws Sy ba- aes Ze

23 JAN 10 1978 i.

MAILED 3

JAN 9 1978

Assoc. Dir,

Dep. AD Ads — _—
octane 4 APPROVEDE em Sorve
7 TA ti
Fin, & Pers.

‘ Direstor__.
Assox. tcnt__
Dep, AD <n, Intctt 7

Pep. AD inv Laboratory___

“fd joln?
Ze. unr

FeI/DOs



UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE isersastiaatiuens 21

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to i Memphis, Tennessee 7 ; ‘4
File No. : December 5, 1977 :

JAMES .EARL RAY;
/ 7 Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. - VICTIMS
CIVIL RIGHTS - CONSPIRACY

On November 21, 1977, retired Special Agent Joe C...
Hester appeared at Washington, D. C., at the meanest of the
House Committee on Assassinations.

Mr. Hester met with the Committee staff in their
- offices at Washington, D. C., and was interviewed for a
total of four hours by two different groups of five persons
each. Both groups were affable and were not in any way
eritical of the investigation conducted in this case,

ee The first group of five interviewers asked a
im variety of questions but seemed to be particularly preoccupied

with the investigation conducted by Legats in Mexico.
Mr. Hester was able to answer many of the general questions
regarding the activities of Legats but referred them to
Assistant Director Richard Long when they began to ask more
specific questions regarding the. investigations by Legats

and the manner of transmittal of this information to FBI

Headquarters A)

The second group of five interviewers asked more
general questions regarding the Bureau's investigation of
the King murder. They seemed to be greatly concerned with
L the allegation of conspiracy. Mr. Hester advised them that
he believed the conspiracy theory was an invention by the
7 , -Department of Justice to be used to justify the FBI's
- investigation of Dr. King's murder. Mr. Hester advised them ©
that he had never personally believed there was a conspiracy
and he did not believe that any of his FBI superiors had

2
D
& : ever believed in the conspiracy theory. Mr. Hester further
3 advised that it was his personal opinion that James Earl Ray,°
ia ’ acting alone, had murdered Dr. King and that his subsequent —
a dé travels were probably financed by armed, robbery.
: Fa : : aan
Yn japiabeiaiatel 7
Zz 9 , .
we = £ This document contains neither recommendations nor
ee conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
. loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

. q

distributed outside your .agency. :
ror 3.

Py ews - Bac G 22577
nw é5d6@Bodl Paani Page 128



RE:. JAMES EARL RAY; .
__- Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. ‘- VICTIM

This group was concerned with how the subject Ray
had ‘known how to obtain false documents following his arrival
in Canada. Mr. Hester pointed out that a "Top Ten" criminal .
had been arrested in Canada and had been returned to the
Missouri State Penitentiary and had served time there with .
‘James Earl Ray prior to Ray's escape, Mr. Hester indicated
: it’ was his belief that this "Top Ten" fugitive had been
{ responsible for instructing Ray on how to proceed in obtaining
i -false documents in. Canada,

7 This group touched on such diverse elements as the
information furnished by John McFerren regarding Frank Liberto,
and one of the interviewers. agreed that they had not believed
McFerren to be a very reliable witness. They also discussed
4 Ray's purchase of the rifle in Birmingham; the fact that
‘ 7 Officer Redditt was moved from the firehouse near the Lorraine
Motel just prior to the murder; what motive did Ray have for
killing Dr. King; whether or not there was any evidence to
indicate a conspiracy; whether or not there were any wiretaps
and whether or not there had been any surreptitious entries
made against King and his followers at Memphis prior to the
assassination; and when, following his escape, did Ray appear
to have made up .his mind to assassinate Dr. King.

. In addition, they asked numerous questions about
the political climate in Memphis just prior to the assassi-
nation and inquired as to what investigation was being conducted
by the FBI in regard to the Sanitation Workers Strike and the
first march conducted by Dr. King. Mr. Hester was forced to
ieaae admit that he had had nothing to do with the investigation of
im Dr. King prior to the murder and he suggested that they talk

+ to current Special Agent Howell S. Lowe who would be in a
position to furnish information in this regard.

{

5 They inquired about the puiaaetetctl of ‘James Earl

Ray. “conducted -by former .Special Agent in Charge Robert G.
Jensen, former Spécial Agent Robert F. Boyle, and Mr. Hester.
at the state prison in Nashville, Tennessee, following Ray's
plea of guilty. Mr. Hester recounted as best he could recall
the.events ‘that transpired in connection with this attempted
interview and advised the interviewers that former Special
» Agent Robert F. Boyle has suffered a cerebral hemmorrhage

and possibly might not be competent to furnish information
regarding this eee

<2

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 129 . : : a



RE: JAMES EARL RAY;.— - eeraeeenet
: Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -‘VICTIM. - PeuRrS

The Committee indicated .that they. might desire .
‘to interview Mr. Hester. ‘again, either personally. or
‘telephonically, and they were assured that he would be
available, and agreeable to: assisting them in any way
possible. : aan a

|
i

aE : SEnREPSABEE' = aE gee

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 130° -



Assoc. Dir.

Dep..AD Adm.
be”
Be

Training
Public Affs. Off. —
Telephone Rm. __

Rressggs |
cld:32989749""
age 131



yaar ————

Paseeceaeee ; @e bane teens STATES GOVERNMENT
ace EC 2
ioe! ggQEE tT memorandunt,
REPLY TO ‘obert L. Keuch FEDERAL GOVERNKERT
ATTN OF: Special Counsel to the Attorney General
‘SUBJECT: Qeouse Select Committee on Assassinaitions
To: Director

>

Federal Bureau of Investigation
5 A

I have received a cop ot the Select Committee's

letter of October 27, 1977, to you commending the work of
. Mr. Danny Coulson and Mr. Drew Clark. I enthusiastically ’
join the Chairman of the Committee in such commendation ~
Pbut I also feel that any such recognition should specifically
include Mr. Jay Aldhizer, who has also been outstanding in
‘his cooperation and willingness to perform the tasks assigned
in his dealings with me in exercising my responsibilities
towards the Committee on behalf of the Attorney General.

a

r
é
cect va Aldhizer a

gen De I ssa- BG
nsom
WS0 Wwe
67-62 BSEe b7- $9 27°°

Panne, 0. Coulson “Draw Sothas le S129 :
au. 364

John 7: Ald by nee, OF
ssa TF
noon

be beed9e of. Keuch/
aire 2 FO qabes, Couree :

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
(REV. 7-76)

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
SOto-112



eee @ aaett @niteo states coveRNweNt
nike DEC 2 “1977

— memorandum

REPLYTO. Robert L. Keuch

Soddabaia . Special Counsel to the Attorney General

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations
TO: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

I have received a copy of the Select Committee's
letter of October 27, 1977, to you commending the work of
Mr. Danny Coulson and Mr. Drew Clark. I enthusiastically
join the Chairman of the Committee in such commendation
but I also feel that any such recognition should specifically
include Mr. Jay Aldhizer, who has also been outstanding in
his cooperation and willingness to perform the tasks assigned
in his dealings with me in exercising my responsibilities
towards the Committee on behalf of the Attorney General.

ec: Mr. Aldhizer

BS
é
~
=
&
xv
o

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

Buy U.S, Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

(REV. 7-76)
3 GSA FPMR (St GFR) 101-11.6
Docld:32989749 Page 133 ; so1o-tte
a a a = hal eens! SESSseeee


‘FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division November 14, 1977
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch Mr. Monahan

Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster
Mr. MeGirl

: Mr. Mintz (Attn:
C) HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS Mr. Coulson) i

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

5 ¢ Director, FBI

BPHRPRP
praere

UA ote
Reference is made to a letter dated October 5, 1977,
addressed to Mr. Robert L. Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney
General, Criminal Division, from G. Robert Blakey, Chief
Counsel and Director, HSCA. This letter requests all
Information in the possession of the FBI pertaining ta
Clifton Baird, Brent Hardin. and Arlie Blair.

Based on information furnished by the Committees:

retrievable information identifiable with Baird, Hardin and

Blair has ‘been prepared for Committee access subject to the f

usual excisions and deletions. This material, as well. as. i

limited material pertaining to Hardin, previously. ‘preparéd for /

the Committee's access, is available to the Gonmittee~ in

Room 8988 of the J. Eagar Hoover Building. ms rae
| Where information is not provided, it is either —

not retrievable from Headquarters files or is not being ~

‘produced pursuant to thé Memorandum of Understanding.

Enclosed are original and two copies of a memo~
randum which responds to this HSCA request. You are requested
to furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

closures ~ 3 i ST-129 }>
JTM: (8) a SEE NOTE [
Dio ReCs4 jo. 2! y

“to AD Ado, ino
|

bLa- 92480

paso: PXLTAE

Dep, AD Inv.

Legel Coun, : Asso. Bir____

Plon. & laspe— Dép AD Aten “Intott—
Roe. Mgnt. : Bep. AD ies _ ane
Spec. Inve) jacnon

"ech. Servs.

Training —

ee Alt om (on

ogee y a ROOM TELETYPE UNIT :
NW 65360 Docld: ee TIS Page 134 :

SRSr S985 0000RGRReeeeneeeen")



NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 135 _

Assistant Attorney General
Criminal Division

_Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: This résponds toa request dated 10/5/77, from HSCA
for all information contained in Bureau files rélative to *
Clifton Baird, Brent Hardin and Arlie Blair. This request
has been coordinated with the Legal Counsel Division.

A review of Bureau files has revealed that a limited
number of documents, relating to an attempted bombing of
Brent Hardin's automobile had béen prepared for the Committee's
access pursuant. to receipt of their request dated 4/27/77: The
Committee was advised of the availability of thése documents
on 5/18/77. The remaining retrievable documents in FBI
Headquarters files identifiable with Baird, Hardin arid Blair
have been prepared for the Committee's access and are being ~
maintained in the Congressional Inquiry Unit's Ropm 8988 for
their review.

Documents retrieved from FBI Headquarters files pursuant.
to the Committee's request dated 10/5/77, include Baird's
ident record, the results of a civil rights. investigation
involving Baird as the. subject, arid references to Blair appearing

‘in the MURKIN file, numerous references to Hardin and the -

results of a civil *pights investigation involving Blair as the
subject.



Mr. Monahan
Mr. Peelman
Mr. Foster

- Mr. MeGirl

1 - Mr. Mintz (Attn:
November 14, 1977

BREE
tit

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

RE: OCTOBER 5, 1977, REQUEST OF HSCA FOR
INFORMATION IN POSSESSION OF THE PBI
RELATIVE TO CLIFTON BAIRD, BRENT HARDIN
AND ARLIE BLAIR.

This constitutes a complete response to the
October 5, 1977, letter of G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
and Director, HSCA.

Chief Counsel Blakey requested al11 FBI information
relative to Clifton Baird, Brent Hardin and Arlie Bleir. ©

Utilizing identifying data for Baird, Hardin and
Blair furnished by the HSCA, retrievable information in FBI”
Headquarters files identifiable with Baird, Hardin and Blair
has been prepared for the Committee's access subject to the
usual excisions and deletions.

Also available for the Committee's access are
documents relating to. Brent Hardin which were previously pre-
pared on May 18, 1977, pursuant to the veceipt of the
Committee's request dated April 27, 1977, for these documents.

Where information 1s not provided, it is either
not retrievable from Headquarters files or is not being
produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Underst: ing.

JTM:sas, (9)
hes
ORIGINAL AND TWO SENT TO MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT
Assoc. di. ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION.

Dep. AD Ad. —

2a 2 OnE : See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General

Mr. Coulson)

Adm. Som Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/14/77,

enw captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. Ss.

ta. House of Rep#esentatives (HSCA)."

tea a ml
| appnoveDt ae fay & Insp —

‘Director

Plon. & Insp.
Ree Ment

Spec. Int_—————

Fen saves as coat uO Teak, Sere —
Tren : Pa ch Dep eee orator = Training_—_—_————
Pubite Atte Of BNCLOSE,<-. pop. AD nw ——— ba ny * Rabie As, Off
Telephone Rm. — -
Director's Secty — MAIL ROOM [J TELETYPE UNIT CJ é 2 sea ) / ) “ 49 &

i NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 136

FBI/DOS



WALTER E, FAUNTROY, D.C.

Yvonne GRATHWAITE BUARE, CALIF, CHARLES THONE, NEB 7 : TREE

Ree RS Racer nae ot i
loro J remins nD. @ Select Committee on —
a
me ,_ Ke02) 284528 : ULSD, Wouse of Represemewnces:

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

_ October 5, 1977

Mr. Robert Keuch

Deputy Assistant bared General
.Criminal Division .
. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear ‘Mr. euch:

Pursuant to our investigation into the assassination
of Dr. Martin Luther ler King, Jr. 1 we hereby request’ that all
reports, materials. and files in the posséssion of the F.B.I.
pertaining to the following individuals be made available

+ to the Committee: and its staff:

1. Clifton Baird, 7813 Edsel Lane, Louisville,
Kentucky~ : 7

‘2. Brent Hardin, 9102 Bristle Ave., Louisville, -
Kentucky-

3. Arlie Blair, 4025 Franklin Ave., Louisville, °
Kentucky, dob 9/3/32.

od

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated. ‘ +
Very truly yours, :
AW
G. Robert eeeeee
Chief Counsel and Director

MCE:ek

cc: Mr. Danny 0. Coulson

Lt Ta 446/20

VIM :Aag - : a \

udder Shue. ree ol )

NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 137 ate : : TUES sEseETeeeavnvan asasvefasnvebdsvavunans



+ a «
Louis SfékES?Su10, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

.- rhe
NA ‘SAMUEL : fs
Water &, PacnTnOY, ce serpin con. ) :
cir. GHanees ED,
3: 0000, CONN. HAROLD 5. SAPIER, #H1CH. . : Tet
FvEHagN. Solect Committee on Assassinations
‘Tovey Ww EOGAR, PAL ee
: (20a) 225-4524

US. Douse of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

soma core DEC 13 1877
()

2
o® 7
QS m
‘ xa 2
: re ves
The Honorable Griffin B. Bell ar = «
Attorney General of the United States Ext B haat
Department of Justice zi ZB ss
Washington, D. C. 20530 RS
Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch © a Wee EIVED
Deputy Assistant Attorney General
“ants naar ear 2 -
Criminal Division, Room 2113 DEC 1 54977.
| Dear Mr.. Attorney General: 2 :
|

wo ie BS OL.
In connection with the investigation by the/ Select
Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin
Dother-King;y Urey YE Would be +h aaah ated if our staff could
| have access to the following files:

|

| a) Any and all materials or files pértaining to
the organization known as the MINUTEMEN for

the period 1966 -1968 active ‘in the ‘states of

Mississippi a i aa
c) Any xecords. and files, excluding DE A. poate
requested in our letter of November 8; 197 7te “On?
Reynard J. Rochon
2200 Oriole Street

- (1967 adaxSbs\iN 4 1978
New Orleans, Louisiana

7018 Dreux Street
New Orleans mpoarsian

emer
a
Your cooperation and prompt attention to this matter is
" greatly appreciated.

. Sincerely, - 62-17 aa

hb babes
be! el sae : G. Robert Blakey
‘GRB:ghe

cc: Danny 0. Coulson

BT IML AIT

ya to Ae]
NW 65360 Docld:32989749 Page 138



OPTIONAL FORM No. 10 i)

JULY 1973 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 1O1-t1.6 :
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT wre

TO The Associate Dire DATE: 12/22/77 Intell.

Loborotory

A
a

FROM : Legal Counseé
a SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Dicector’s Seely —

PURPOSE: The purpose of this memorandum is to recommend

that.the Director release from their secrecy
agreements, SAs Harry L. Lee, Richard D. Rackleff, James R.
Riorden, Warren L. Walsh, John B. Simpson, Richard H. Davis,
Jack T. Beverstein, Robert Nichols and former Assistant
Director Alex Rosen. gf

Y
pbratts: By letter dated 12/20/77 HSAC requested to inter-
view SAs Harry L. Lee (former), SA Richard D.
Racklef£, James R. Riorden, and former x pssistant Director.”
Alex | Rosen. By letter dated 11/8/77? ‘the Committee requested
permission to interview SA John B. Simpson, Richard A. Davis
(former) and SA Jack T. Beverstein (fprmer).

By letter dated 11/3/77 captioned Committee me
requested the identity of the case Agent most familiar with a
white hate activities the period from 1965 to 1966. By

+ letter dated LL/17/77! ‘the Committee was advised that this
i Agent is SA Warren L. Walsh (former). By letter dated
ar 12/9/77 the Committee requested permission to interview

SA Robert Nichols (former). y
‘RECOMMENDATION : “T Ine REC-46. l a - IN 240 3 3 AL

That the Director release from their employment nom,
agreement for purpose of interview by the captioned Committee
the following individuals: Harry L. Lee, Richard D. Ragklo ffi.)
James R. Riorden, Warren L. Walsh, John B. Simpson,
Richard H. Davis, Jack T. Beverstein, Robert Nichols andsesns me
fbrmex Assistant Director Alex Rosen. —

wr

1. - Mr, Mintz
1 - Mr. Monahan /
7 Adm, Serv——
1 - Mr. Long. 4i\ _ APPROVED: Poca ihaamaal
1 = Mr. Foster birector{ Fin. & Pers
2 - Mr. Hotis R \ Asoo. Di Ident_
1 "

- Mr. nh Ht 7 Bop. AD a — tae —
4 m Dep. AD In & “SaEsenEs
voc-abiiie) WAS . : i pale tase ill
: F aha bereninne ns SES
ES ——
R42 Buy t U. S. Savings Bonds Regularly on he Payroll Savings Plan
jocid: se batye 139 {

