# docid-34529214

## Page 1

Date:

01/14/98

Page :

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10004-10398

RECORDS SERIES

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES 61-63

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : I RESTRICTED ]

TO :

TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]

DATE : 11/18/68

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK

CHARACTER REFERENCES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

released under the John F. Kenned

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Date: 09.22-2022

NW 64954 Docid:34529214 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UPFAGEN

CAR 381-130; FM 30-

1. NAME OF SUBJECT. OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB:

17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

JFK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

(NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK) On 24 October 1968, Alexander Castillo,

Student, Bronx High School of Science, Bronx, New York, who resides in

Apartment 5B, 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York 10459, was interviewed

Source who has known SUBJECT

since approximately 1950 stated substantially as follows:

Source met SUBJECT in 1950 when he and his parents moved into

the apartment building at the above address where SUBJECT was then residing

with HIS parents. Source's mother was a close friend of MARTI'S mother,

and Source became quite friendly with SUBJECT and HIS brother, Ivan, and

visited SUBJECT'S apartment on the average of four times weekly until 1965

when the Marti family moved from the neighborhood. Source had seen SUBJECT

on a few occasions since He moved from the neighborhood, the last time

being about three or four months ago.

SUBJECT grew up in the neiborhood of East 167th Street, Bronx,

New York, and came from a very respectable home.

In addition to HIS older

brother, Ivan, SUBJECT also has a young sister, Blanca. HE was graduated

from high school in Bronx, New York, further details unknown, and Source

believed that HE was working for an insurance company in New York City,

further details unknown. SUBJECT'S mother died in early 1967. Source

elieves that SUBJECT is still single, and HE resided at an unknown address

in upper Manhattan after moving from the neighborhood of East 167th Street.

• SUBJECT is a very quiet, mannerly, respectable young man of

good moral character and personal behavior.

HE was never known to be

adversely involved with law enforcement agencies, nor to engage in any

activities inimicalato the best interest of the United States.

SUBJECT'S

parents, whom Source knew as Mr. and Mrs. Marti, were very strict and did

not aliow SUBJECT to associate with any neighborhood gangs. Most of HIS

spare time was spent at home with HIS studies and with HIS hobbies of stamp

collecting and the rearing of birds and fish. SUBJECT and HIS brother were

influential in starting Source in the hobby of stamp collecting.

SUBJECT is

considered to be an honest, trustworthy, discreet and financially responsible

young man. HE is considered to be a loyal United States citizen,

and neither

HE nor any other member of HIS family was ever heard to make any statements

against the United States or to express sympathy for the Communist philo-

sophy. SUBJECT had no known organizational affiliations, and HE was not

known to travel öutside of the United States. Source was unable to suggest

anyone who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

61

Castillo recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a

position of trust and responsibility with the United States

Government

BONE WARKING IS CLIn dominatos

SUPER NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

obert e.

Aleagges

NW 64954 Docld:34529214 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AGENT REPORT

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Emanuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB:

17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

1. REPORT OF FINDINGS

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (0)

(NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK) On 24 October 1968, Dominga Ortiz,

housewife, who resides at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York 10452,

was interviewed at her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has

known SUBJECT since 1965 stated substantially as follows:

Source who is the spouse of the building superintendent at the

above address met SUBJECT and HIS damily in 1965 when they moved into

the apratment building, and her contact with SUBJECT has been limited tc

an occasional greeting

whenever they meet in the neighborhood.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S education, employment,

previous residence, or personal background.

SUBJECT and HIS family appear to be very fine, respectable people

and their conduct in the neighborhood had been above reproach. SUBJECT'S

mother, name unknown, died in 1967. SUBJECT and HIS family appear to be

very quiet people and keep very much to themselves. Source knew of nothing

which would reflect adversely on MARTI'S character, integrity, discretion,

maturity, emotional stability, financial responsibility or honesty. Neither

He nor other members of HIS family have been observed to engage in any

questionable political activity and Source had no reason to doubt HIS loyalty

to the United States. SUBJECT was not known to be adversely involved with

law enforcement agencies during the period of association, and Source had

no knowledge of any organizational affiliation HE might have. Source was

unable to suggest anyone who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Based on the excellent conduct of SUBJECT in the neighborhood,

Ortiz recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of

responsibility with the United States Government.

62

SPEARMINANTON.

-TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp, (I-SIB)

DA FORS 341

REPLACES."

NW 64954 Docld:34529214 Page 3

8. SIGNATÚRE OR SPECIAL AGENT

---

## Page 4

oper

AGENT REPORT

(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARII, Emanuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB:

17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

A. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

38250-03M01 OR FIE NUMBER

JFK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

(NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK) On 24 October 1968, Hortense Mosko,

Housewife,

who resides at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York 10452,

was interviewed in her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has

known SUBJECT for approximately three years stated substantially as follows:

Source has been casually acquainted with SUBJECT and HIS family

as neighbor siosince 1965 when MARTI and HIS parents moved into apartment 1E

adjacent to source; however, her contact with SUBJECT and HIS family had

3о 2 to 0т hole bony

United States Army.

SUBJECT and HIS family were described as very quiet, friendly

neighbors whose conduct in the neighborhood was above reproach. Source had

no knowledge concerning SUBJECT'S educational background, employment or

previous residence.

MARIT appears to be of excellent character, and Source knew of

nothing whichwould reflect adversely on SUBJECT'S character, integrity,

discretion, honesty, or financial responsibility. HE was not known to have

any difficulty with law enforcement agencies. SUBJECT'S mother, given

name unknown, died almost two years ago.

The members of SUBJECT'S family

keep very much to themselves and do not associate with any of the other

neighbors in the building.

Neither SUBJECT or the other members of HIS

family were known to engage in any questionable political or ôther activity

in the neighborhood, and Source had no reason to doubt or question SUBJECT'S

loyalty to the United States.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S organi-

zational affiliationscor foreign travels. Source was unable to suggest any-

one who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Mosko recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position

of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

63

PROTECHIVI

MARKING IS EY

FOR OFFICIAL

EYES NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

DA

FORM

I APR 52 S461

REPLACES WO AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 64954 Docld:34529214 Page 4

MIC NURMINATON

6. SIONATURE OF SPECIAI AGENT ARiagger

solute

---

