Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10451 ermedy Asacsination
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS ecords Collection Act of
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]
aselt: NW 68261 Date:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponement in this document represent Social Security numbers.

| Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

| reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

| NW 68261
| Doctd:32239459 Page 1



Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

! IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10451

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 09/06/77
PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
JOHNSON, ERNESTINE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

a COMMENTS :
Box: 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| ‘NW 68261
Docld:32239459 Page 2



Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Ernestine @, Johnson 12/31/73
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
CO Appointment
0 Solary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
200 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
5 Assassinations 1. Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business. _____-_-__-- )
. ‘Specify Date

| Nw 68261 a . aa

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM arte 7 eo
(Please Use Typewriter 4 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) MA Washington, D.C. 20515 ‘on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

(if type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the solary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appro,

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or O) Professional.
2.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

Congress.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_________ If applicable, Level_______. Step.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. °

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only: | iD
Office Code.

= -.

Docld:32239459 Page 3

wy



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Pleose Use Typewriter. ( JUS. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(. (Any erasures, corection, or changes =”

+ ii ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: . 4

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) sy]: Effective Date 4
Ernestine G. Johneon October 1, 1978 | ;
| q
Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action A
salary Adjustment 4
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee 0 Title Change 4
O Termination (At close of business on effective date) 4
: O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
Assassinations close of business
al
{If type of action is.an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) 3
Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
$25,700.00

* If emoloyee isa
plus the salary re

service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
from the employing office.

If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or 11 Professional.

6 “
2. & Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Rese of Congress.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level_______. Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives. fee ee
Dote. Octob:

{Type or print nome of Authorizing OMicil)
Chairmaa

(Type or print name and title of above official) Title Hf Member, District and Sta

All. appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: _ 3
Chairman, Committee on House Administration q
4
Office of Finance use only: ID _.-- j
Office Code...
Monthly Annuity $________-00 sof.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

| NW 68261 Tee

Docld:32239459 Page 4 j



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM ~ : a :
(Please Use. Typewriter U.S. HOUSE -OF: REPRESENTATIVES :- ~~. (Any-erasures, corrections, or changes =

| > A L, on. this form must be. initialed by. the i
| or: Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515. authorizing official.) |
|

| .-To.the Clerk of the House of Representatives:. °°. * * . re aon

| hereby authorize the following payroll action: 2

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~~ 20... wie ecu. i - Effective Date - fs “ ot \

i

Ernestine &. Johnsen _ 9/6/77 \
Employee Social Security. Number Matte c 5 seType. of Action

§) Appointment

Employing Office or Committee ~ : D Salary. Adjustment : |

| [ Termination (At close of business on effective.date) |
: Assassinations H
(If type of action is an-Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following-information:):- |

| |
Position Title Gross Annual Salary |

{

Staff Investigator $24,000 |

(If Committee Employee; complete-appropriate item below.) ..~ + . : z . te

! 1. Standing Committee: Staff—[1].Clerical or [-] Professional. : 2

lone 2.) Special or Select Committee: AuthorityH. Res: 465 ___

Fy

“Congress.

3. FJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below). >» i.

Position Number. _.Step,

f applicable, Level

certify that this authorization: is. not:.in. violal
relatives.

f. SeeW'S.C. 3110(b),.. prohibiting. the employment of
7 ; Fe

All.appointments:and salary adjustments for‘employees under the House-Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees,.except those. of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on. the: Budget, and the Joint Committees, must \
be approved bythe Committee.on House- Administration.

APPROVED:.

Chairman, Committee on House

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

| ee

oo

| NW 68261 oe
Docld:32239459 Page 5



MEMORANDUM

TO: Mr. Blakey
FROM: Edward M. EvansG@/&

DATE: September 6, 1977 "AG 9
ww?

eo
SUBJECT: Ernestine G. Johnson 4

Ms. Johnson has agreed to take a position with us as
Staff Investigator assigned to the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Task Force.

She will start September 6, 1977 at $24,000.

EME:ek

| NW 68261 a

Docld:32239459 Page 6



|
Nw 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF
RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Al Towances: and.

ent re that, among other things, the Committee's
nthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
sor husband stepfather
daughter wife . stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister

e son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel
i _you_must notify the Co ttee's Budget.

[ff \ am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

Docld:32239459 Page 7

ty
