# docid-32298216

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

‹ RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10492

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 157-742-498

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: PETERSON, STANLEY E.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/09/1964

PAGES:

124

SUBJECTS :

SMO, RACK ACT, ASSOC, BOMBING, SUSP, VICTIMS, INTV,

SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i, INDEX PAGES uu-zz, 47-50

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

CV 157-127

LEADS

CLEVELAND

At Canton, Ohio

Will maintain close contact with sources and informants

for any information they may develop regarding this case.

At Youngstown, Ohio

(1)

Will maintain contact with Mrs. HELEN CAVALLARO, 164

Roslyn Drive, to determine if she has received any information

regarding the bombing.

(2)

Will maintain close contact with sources and informants

for any information they may develop fagarding this case.

W111 interview JOE BLUMETTI concerning the identity of

"SUGAR,

" a pimp and close associate of CAVALLARO, who was

convicted with BLUVETTI in a WSTA case.

INFORMANTS

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I-symbols were utilized only in those instances

where the identity of the source must be concealed.

Identity of

Source

CV T-1 1s

CV 278-0 TE

CV T-2 1s

CV 544-c

CV T-15 is

CV 591-C

CV T-24 1s

CV 545-0

B

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CV 157-127

Identity of

Source

CV T-33 1s

PCI ROSE SCHULLER

CV 1-49 15

CV 344-C

CV T-51 15

PCI PAUL CLAUTTI

CV T-52 1s

PCI DAN PETRICK

CV T-55 15

cv 620-0

CV T-57 is

PCI JAMES FRANK COX

CV T-60 is

CV 581-PC

CV T-61 is

CV 421-PC

CV T-62 1s

CV 598-PC

CV I-65 is

CV 559-PC

CV T-67 1s

CV 592-PC

CV I-69 1s

PCI PAUL M. KUZMA

CV I-80 1s

PG 694-PC

CV T-81 1s

PCI VICTOR N. CALAUTTI

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 3

---

## Page 4

C

CV 157-127

Identity of

Source

CV T-82 1s

CV 572-C

CV T-83 1s

PCI CHARLES CAROLYNE

CV T-84 1s

CV 588-PC

ADMINISTRATIVE

one copy of this report is being furnished for the

intormation of Buffalo, Cincinnati, Detroit, New York and Pitts-

burgh offices since additional interviews may be requested of

these offices at a later date.

Three copies of this report are being designated for

the Bureau as per instructions.

By teletype dated November 23, 1962, the Bureau

instructed that immediate investigation

be initiated under

Section 837B, TItle 18, United States Code, as requested by

the Department of Justice.

Additional instructions are that the following data

(cumulative totals) are to be submitted to the Bureau at the end

of each week (close of business Saturdays) until the case is

closed:

1.

2.

Number of man hours spent on case broken down as to

(1) regular hours, (2) overtime hours, and (3) total

man hours by following employees (separate figures

for each class of employees shown):

Special Agents

Clerical employees

Total mileage (estimated or actual) traveled by Bureau

cars used. on case. Include mileage incurred by cars

-D-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CV 157-127

with the rackets for many years. He stated that SHUTRUMP has

done time in the Federal Penitentiary at Milan, Michigan, on

an income tax evasion conviction.

CV I-49 advised on July 22, 1964, he had visited

FRANK MEZZATESTA, Kent, Ohio, that evening, and while there,

MEZZATESTA's nephew, ANTHONY MADAFFARE, appeared at the house,

riding a motor scooter.

I ANTHONY WAS STATEd

CV. T-49 stated the conversation again

got around to Youngstown and both MADAFFARE and NEZZATESTA

cautioned him to stay away from Youngstown. MADAFFARE stated

that over in Italy when a man has a friend, he can trust him,

but stated that in Youngstown "friend kills friend."

CV I-49 stated he learned that MADAFFARE was probably

closer to DOMINICK MOIO than was MEZZATESTA.

He stated from

their conversation, he gathered that MOIO ana MADAFFARE had

lived together and, although they did not say specifically,

he gathered it had been in Youngstown. He stated he got the

definite impression that MADAFFARE had more definite infor-

mation about MOIO's activities than did MEZZATESTA.

CV T-49 advised that MEZZATESTA in talking about the

bombing of BILLY NAPLES on July 1, 1902, stated that Mole had

been responsible and that

"they"

had ordered him to do this.

He stated he, himself, liked BILLY NAPLES, but when such a

thing was ordered, he was powerless to interfere.

MEZZATESTA

also stated that MOIO made the mistake of working for too many

factions and he would work for any group for money, and that

was what finally caused his death when it was determined that

he had "hit" some member of the "organization."

assumed they meant either CAVALLARO or VINCENT J. DE NIRO, Who

was killed July 17, 1961, while MOIO was in the employ of

BILLY NAPLES.

CV I-24 advised on July 24, 1964, that when the barbut

game operated in Youngstown on South

Avenue, and possibly. r

Struthers, Ohio, JERRY CONTI had a piece of

the game; however,

he was later cut out, apparently when CHARLES CAVALIARO shared

and was definitely out of the game when it operated in Campbell,

ohio.

- H -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CV 157-127

Re:

DOMINICK MOIO - DECEASED

CV T-1 advised on June 29, 1964, that in conversation

on the night of June 28, 1964, he learned from his source that

DOMINICK MOIO was Involved in both the BILLY NAPLES and the

CAVALLAR bombing murders, but did not know by whom he was

employed. He stated MOIO was killed because he "knew too much,"

and whoever was involved was afraid of him. CV T-l also stated

his source told him that MOIO was allegedly a brother-in-law of

PAT FERRUCCIO of Canton, Ohio, and it was behind FERRUCCIO's

club in Canton that MOIO was killed, and the body placed in the

trunk of his car and driven to a rural section outside of Canton

where It was recovered on September 3, 1963.

the former girlfriend of DOMINICK MOIO, had visited him recently

on two occasions. On one of these occasions, he stated she was

about to tell him something regarding BILLY NAPLES, but they were

by a customer and she never completed what she was

going to say. CV T-51 stated he has not visited CONSTANTINO at

her home because her two daughters might get the wrong impression

and tell others about his visit. CV T-51 agreed that CONSTANTINO

would undoubtedly have much information about the activities of

MOTO and his relations with BILLY and JOEY NAPLES.

CV T-51 pointed out that as he had previously reported,

CONSTANTINO had told him that she believed the NAPLEs brothers

were responsible for MOIO's death and she had warned MOIO prior

to his death to stay away from the NAPLES.

CV T-51 stated

CONSTANTINO never explained to him why she was so afraid of

the NAPLES.

CV T-51 also stated that only a short time after MOIO

met CONSTANTINO, MOIO was working behind the bar.

He stated

that at that time a Youngstown police officer named BILLY KELLY

was also a frequent visitor at the tavern operated by CONSTANTINO

and probably became as well acquainted with MOIO as did CV I-51.

He stated that on one occasion BILLY KELLY approached him with

a request that he, CV T-51, borrow $5,000 from MOIO and that

KELLY and he would then start their own business. He recalled

that subsequent to MOIO's death he mentioned this to KELLY,

- J-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CV 157-127

whose remark was, "It is too bad we didn't borrow the money

because now we wouldn't have to pay it back."

It was pointed out to cv T-51 that at the time. of

BILLY NAPLES! death, he must have had some conversation with

both MOIO and CONSTANTINO regarding NAPLES! death, since he was

aware of the friendship between MOIO and NAPLES.

he stated that

if there was any conversation, he does not now recal. what was

said.

CV I-51 advised that recently LOU TORMA (phortetic)

(LOUIS LE PORES), who was employed by the NAPhas brothers as

a repairman in the operation of the United Music Company, had

contacted him to buy some electronic parts. TORMA appeared

accompanied by an individual whom he described as short,

wearing a hat and glasses, and who it would appear was probably

PAUL HOLOVATICH who is associated with the NAPLES brothers in

the Center Sandwich Shop operation. ' He stated he inquired of

were being bothered by the local police and the

FORmA as to how business was going, and ToM rellederdis."

At this point, the individual belleved to be HoLovalich reminded

TORMA of the time he stopped the "federals" with his car.

HOLOVATICH then terminated his statement with "those s-- b--."

He stated he does not

know HOLOVATICh.

CV T-51 advised that in 1957, PAUL CLAUTTI of Youngs-

town and

CAVALLARO were partners in a trucking company for about

three or four months. CAVALIARO put up most of the money ano

they had three or four dump trucks which they used to haul gravel

from Pennsylvania to Liberty Township, Ohio, north of Youngstown,

where a sewer line was being installed. CV I-51 stated that

because of the Inexperienced truck drivers whom they employed,

one of whom wrecked the truck, the business was not successful

and folded:

It was pointed out to Cv T-51 of the FBI's intense

interest in solving the CAVALIARO bombing.

He stated he was

very interested in determining who was responsible for the killing

and added he belleved ANGELINE CONSTANTINO had considerable Infor-

mation regarding MOIO's activities.

He stated he did not know

personally whether MOIO was involved in the CAVALIARO k11ling,

- K -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CV 157-127

SEP: Jmp

RE:

VINCENT J. DE NIRO

(Bombing-Murder VIctim 7/17/61

CV T-60 was again questioned on March 26, 1964,

regarding information he had previously furnished regarding

the bombing death of VINCENT J. DE NIRO at Youngstown (July 17,

1961). He stated that several days before the contaet,

FRANK LENTINE, Youngstown burglar, had mentioned to him a

possible "house score" where a considerable amount of cash

belonging to the late DE NIRO was supposed to have been kept.

LENTINE stated that the residence Involved is the present

residence of the parents of DE NIRO and where his brother,

LOUIS DE NIRO,

resides. According to LENTINE,

when DE NIRO

was alive he always had a barber come to his home. One occasion,

according to this barber, he was at DE NIRO's home and arter

giving him a hair cut, DENIRO did not have any cash on him.

This barber stated he

usually was paid $10 or $20 for each

visit.

On this particular occasion, DE NIRO, after noticing he had no

cash,

then pressed a button which opened a door leading to the

attic.

DE NIRO went into the attic and came down and gave the

barber a $10 bill.

LENTINE's belief was that the attle 1s the

location of DE NIRO's money.

Cv T-60 stated that

shot at several times, but these instances were never reported

to the police. He stated LENTINE made reference to several

occasions that "they" really "ahly. "to do away with de NIRo,

but never further identified

LENTINE also

stated that "they" just prior to the death of DE NIRO, had followed

his activities very closely and knew that DE NIRO waS

using three

different autos since he was aware that someone was trying to

k1ll him. LENTINE further stated that at thetime of his death,

all three cars had actually been wired for explosives and that

on the Sunday evening that DE NIRO was killed, the car that he

actually used and was blown up in, a short time before, had been

driven by EDITH MAGNOLIA'S (DE NIRO's girlfriend) son,

NICK, who

parked it on Market Street.

- S =

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CV 157-127

CV T-60 stated that when this car was wired with the

explosives, a truck was pulled up to the area and a man with a

machine gun was stationed inside the truck to protect the

Individuals that placed the explosives in the car.

CV T-60 stated he did not ask LENTINE who was behind

the killing of DE NIRO since he did not want to make his interest

known since this was a subjeet that 1s not generally discussed.

RE: "The Organization"

the Pittsburgh office advised_on March 11, 1964, that

ev T-oo advised SA JOHN S. PORTELLA on February 28, 1964,

that

at Youngstown, or anywhere

else,

there is only one

gambling

organization

or gambling syndicate governed by Italians,

He

stated that within this main body it is only natural to find

people who come from sicily,

who

are called Sicilians,

calabrese,

or people who come from Naples who call themselves

Neapolitans, ete.

CV T-80 stated that insofar as he knows there are no

two organizations in Youngstown, Cleveland, or elsewhere; but

there is definitely a younger element in almost every city striving

to take over fron the older element.

CV T-80 stated that even

when the younger element gained control, big decisions are still

passed on by the older heads in the organizations,

and when there

1s a disagreement of what is to be done, you have a situation

such as the one that errupted in New York with the GALLO boys.

so the one thát o

The Cincinnati Office advised on April 16, 1964, that

on March 16, 1964, cv T-73 advised SA E. ARTHUR RIEGE he has no

knowledge as to the identity of persons In Steubenville, Ohio,

that are members of the Calabrese Group of the Cleveland

Organization, however, he advised that JAMES TRIPODI 1s Calabrese

and reportedly controls the Steubenville area.

JOSEPH TEGANO,

propietor, Fort Steubes Musical Bar, North Fourth St. Steubenville,

1s also Calabrese and a close associate of TRIPODI.

PHILLIP

MATTUCCI, another Calabrese 1s TRIPODI's right hand man and

looks arter TRIPODI's Interests at the ia Club, BOREDO CA DUCT

Steubenville, where a barbut game is held.

aka., "RAB," proprietor, Venetian Bar and Restaurant, North. S1xth

- T -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CV 157-127

CV T-l advised on March 24, 1964, he had been contacted

by Sergeant WILLIAM LESHNOCK, Chief of the I &S Squad (Vice Squad),

Youngstown Police Department, who inquired of him 1f he

would

give him a pool table.

He stated he

told LESHNOCK he would

have to first speak to his "boss," and would let

then contacted DOMINICK MALLAMO,

mentioned MALLAMO'g name, and CV T-l stated he did not. MALLAMO

suggested that ev T-l should give LESHNOCK a pool table and

stated

"I'm o.k. with LESHNOCK, I'm o.k. with the Chief and the

Mayor, but no good with the FBi.

"The FBI is no good - they've

MALLAMO also told him,"

got too many stool pigeons.

CV T-I stated he then told Sergeant LESHOCK he could

pick up his pool table and asked LESHNOCK for permission to

operate a poker game in a local hotel to which LESHNOCK agreed

and stated he would not bother him.

The following day MALLAMO recontacted CV T-l and gave

hin $300 and told him he should also give a pool table to the

Chief of Police at the same time as he gave the table to LESHNOCK.

MALLAMO then asked CV T-l about his poker game, and suggested

to him that he operate same at the C.M.A.S. Club, 19 5th Ave.,

Youngstown,

and they could split 50-50. Cv T-l stated he was

agreeable to this and MALLAMO told him he would, furnish the food

and cook for the players.

CV T-1 stated he asked MALLAMO

about the Ohio State Liquor Enforcement Agents and MALLAMO

told him he would take care of them and for him not to worry.

CV T-1 advised on April 1l, 1964, that on the night of

April 10, 1964, there was a dinner meeting at the workingen's

COME MA Street see the 20 or 25 per

There were 20 or 25 persons

present at the dinner

and after all had eaten, MALLAMe got up and

addressed the group and remarked to the group

that they had to

stick together as one,

otherwise they will fall apart.

MALLAMO

mentioned that many members are behind on their monthly dues of

$10 per month, in addition to the initiation fee of $100.

- W -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CV 157-127

CV T-l advised on April 30, 1964, that there 1s some

apparent unrest among the underworld in Youngstown at the

present time regarding LOUIS TIBERIO, owner of the Tropics

Lounge, and allegedly involved In bookmaking activities.

Through

"BIG DOM,

" leader in the "Calabrese

to MALLAMO as are other gambling operators,

and for this reason,

TIBERIO coula be hurt.

CV T-I stated he will endeavor to maintain

a close contact with MALLAMO in this regard, but does not

think any plans have been formulated to date to hurt TIBERIO.

He stated that all of the operators in the Youngstown area,

Including NAPLES and PETER FETCHET, pay off to MALLAMO

CV T-l advised on May 11, 1964, that on the afternoon

of that day, ANTHONY DELSANTER and NICK PAPALAS,.

aka., BROWN, Of

Warren,

were present at the Workingmen's Club with DOMINICK MALLAMO

MALLAMO and DELSANTER conferred together for about 20 minutes,

returned to the room, stayed a few minutes and then left.

CV T-1 stated he learned there must be some kind of

disagreement or argument between MALLAMO and DELSANTER as MALLAMO

was supposed to have had some money at the club, that was not

brought in or was not made available to DELSANTER, aS DELSANTER

stated "there should be more than five." DELSANTER also stated

that the barbut game could not reopen as "There's too many FBI's

you known that,

we're surrounded. There are FBI men in

warren like files, and the FBI has an office there with at least

20 men."

CV T-1 advised that on June 6, 1964, he drove to

Akron, Ohio at the request of DOMINICK MALLAMO

to contact TOMMY

BRUNO •

The purpose of the trip was to pick up a package of money

from BRUNO for MALLAMO. MALLAMO furnished him a ear, a two-tone

Bulck, which is parked

at the rear of the Workingmen's Club, East

Federal Street, Youngstown, operated by MALLAMO.

CV T-l stated he contacted BRUNO and BRUNO advised him

the package was not ready, but that he would deliver same to him

in Youngstown on June 7, 1964,

for him to give to MaLLAMo.

stated that as of June 9, 1964, when he was recontacted he had

not been contacted by BRUNO.

- Y

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CV 157-127

CV T-81 stated on August 3, 1964, that MARIO GUERRIERI:

son of PAUL ROMEO of Campbell; one FRANK

STRINGSE, WK, *STRINGY" (phonetie) of Cleveland of Fittsburgh

and SAM WOSOKI,

former Pittsburgh bondsman, are now associated

together writing performance bonds for area contractors.

He

stated that ROMEO is taking GUERRIERI around to the various

contractors soliciting business.

He stated the deal is for the

contractor to put up the sum of $1,000 with GUERRIERI when he bids

the Job, and if a contract is let to that particular contractor,

then the fee is 2 percent of the contract,

up to one-half million

dollars.

Anything over this figure the contractor must put up

operated under the name of Continental

office is next door to GUERRIERI's other company,

AAA Bonding

Agency, 401 Central Tower, Youngstown, phone RI 7-6230.

CV T-81 stated that to date GUERRIERI has solicited one

customer, one ART MARINELLI.

He was questioned as to the going

legitimate rate for these performance bonds, and he advised that the

rate 1s one-half percent. The reason they sell at 2 percent,

according to ev T-81, is that these contractors, because of

reputation, cannot purchase performance bonds from ethieal bonding

or surety companies.

He further stated that thehead of the Continental

Surety Company Is one ALLEN ROSS of Pittsburgh. He was questioned

as to whether or not he may be identical with AL ZETD and he

stated he does not know for sure, but thought possibly they may

be one and the same.

On August 11, 1964, CV T-82 advised that the deal to

sell the Chez Paree Club to PETRELLA and LATONE actually fell

through because they could not gather enough money to close the

deal. He advised that this past week he was contacted by PETRELLA

and LATONE and they attempted to collect the $500 down payment

they had made on the deal and he stated he advised them he would

attempt pa eater

return the $500 if they would pay him the $600 which represented

the costs incurred by him in attempting to close the deal. He

stated PETRELLA became angry and threatened him that he would

do $5,000 damage to his property if he did not come up with the

-RR -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 12

---

## Page 13

CV 157-127

$500, and he told PETRELLA that if he wanted to fight he would

take off his coat and roll up his

sleeves and they would fight It

out right then ana there.

He also asked PETRELLA 1f he was

threatening him, and PETRELLA told him he was not. PETRELLA

theo told on that he would have to report evans' because

i to return

the $500 to JASPER JOSEPH AIELIO, JR., aka.,

because the

$500 was actually AIELLO's money and CV T-82 told PETRELLA that he

T anyth

did not care who he reported it to, but if anything happened to him

or his property he

would hold PeTReLLA personally responsible.

With regard to a wiretapping probe by the Youngstown

City council,

"Youngstown Vindicator" newspaper of March 19,

1964, carrled an article captioned "Entire Council Will Act

on Wiretapping,

and reads as follows:

"City Council President JOSEPH E.

0 NETIL;

Wednesday night reorganized the council committee

studying wiretapping to include the entire council.

*Last week City Law Director PATRICK M. MELILLO ruled

that council has the authority to subpoena

witnesses and

to cite reluctant witnesses for contempt.

"O'NEILI named 7th Ward Councilman JOHN KNAPP to head

up the new committee. KNAPP said that he would probably call

the first meeting for next Wednesday.

"O'NEILL, In renaming the committee, admonished the

members not to

'worry about what some people may say

about the investigation.

"The old committee was composed of KNAPP, 6th ward

Councilman JOHN MC CARTHY,

2nd Ward Councilman PETE STARK

and 3rd Ward Councilman JAMES PASTORE.

On March 19,

1964, Mahoning County Prosecutor CLYDE W.

OSBORNE advised regarding the probe of alleged wiretapping conducted

by a special committee of the Youngstown City Counell, that Attorney

= SS -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 13

---

## Page 14

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 157-127

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Cleveland, Ohio

September 9, 1964

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS;

BOMBING -MURDER,

CHARLES CAVALLAR AGE II,

AND SON,

THOMAS,

DECEASED - VICTIMS

BOMBING MATTERS

Reference is made to the report of SA STANLEY e.

PETERSON, dated and captioned as above at cleveland.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

CV T-1

An individual who by virtue of his activity in

the gambling field and his association with

known

hoodlums is well acquainted with that

element in Youngstown, Ohio.

CV T-2

Is closely associated with members of the racket

element in the Youngstown area.

CV T-15

This individual who by virtue of his employment

comes in contact with many members of the gambling

element in Youngstown and is considered a close

confidant of certain members of this element.

CV T-24

By reason of his long association with the top

hoodlum element in the Youngstown area this

individual has the confidence of certain members

of this element.

CV T-33

An individual who because of her deceased

husband's past criminal activity is acquainted

with many members of the hoodlum element in the

Trumbull-Mahoning County area.

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 14

---

## Page 15

J. DE NIRO, bombing murder victim at Youngstown, July 17, 1961,

operated a crap game in a building next to the Pines Nite Club

on Route 422, east of Youngstown, DITTA was working at the game.

He stated DITTA just stood around and loaned money to anyone

who went broke in the game.

He stated that he, himself, went

one night and DITTA loaned him $400, and he paid DITTA

back the following evening.

DITIA at that time was on DE NIRO's payroll..

He stated he always assumed that

He also recalled

from the past that DITTA was a good friend of CAVALLARe.

CV T-62 advised on June 22, 1964, when asked 1f he

knew NICK DITTA, that he definitely knew DITTA and that he

frequently came into the

in Youngstown.

CV T-62 stated he heard DITTA was a killer from

anto a stated

"A" Lounge while It was in operation

Detroit, but knew little of his activities in Youngstown or

elsewhere. He said he felt sure that DITTA was a close friend

of "FATS"

-AIELLO and DICK STEWART.

CV T-61 advised on July 14, 1964, he had been talking

to MIKE ROMEO of Youngstown,

brother of PAUL ROMEO whom he

described as a "Mafia member."

He stated that Mike told him

that Mrs. DE NIRO, mother of slain Youngstown racketeer VINCENT

J. DE NIRO, had paid a sum of money to DOMINICK MOIO (deceased).

to avenge the death of her son.

He stated that MIKE told him

that MOIO came to MrS. DE NIRO

with the proposition.

CV T-61

stated that in this particular instance,

in his opinion, MOIO

since he had probably already

was simply being an opportunist Cleveland syndicate" to avenge

received the contract from the

DE NIRO's death. He stated that subsequently Molo did actively

participate in the bombing death of BILLY NAPLES (July 1, 1962)

who the syndicate felt was

responsible for the bombing death

of DE NIRO (July 17, 1901) •

He reiterated the fact that sub-

responsible for and actively participated

in the bombing death of CHARLES CAVALIARO and his son, for the

NAPLES brothers, JOEY and JIMMY, and that MOIO was subsequently

eliminated by the

"Cleveland syndicate" for his participation

in the CAVALLARO bombing.

that DITTA

at one time lived in Youngstown and has been connected

-3÷

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 15

---

## Page 16

with the rackets for many years. He stated that SHUTRUMP has

done time in the Federal Penitentiary at Milan, Michigan, on

an income tax

evasion conviction.

CV T-49 advised on July 22, 1964, he had visited

FRANK MEZZATESTA,

Kent, Ohio, that evening, and while there,

MEZZATESTA's nephew, ANTHONY MADAFFARE, appeared at the house,

riding a motor scooter. CV T-49 stated the conversation again

got around to Youngstown and both MADAFFARE and MEZZATESTA

cautioned him to stay away from Youngstown. MADAFFARE stated

that over in Italy when a man has a friend, he can trust him,

but stated that In Youngstown "friend kills friend."

CV T-49 stated he learned that MADAFFARE was probably

closer to DOMINICK MOIO than was MEZZATESTA.

He stated from

their conversation, he gathered that MOIO and MADAFFARE had

lived together and, although they did not say specifically,

he gathered it had been In Youngstown.

He stated he got the

definite Impression that MADAFFARE had more definite infor-

mation about MOIO's activities than did MEZZATESTA.

CV I-49 advised that MEZZATESTA in talking about the

bombing of BILLY NAPLES on July 1, 1962, stated that MOIO had

been responsible and that

"they" had ordered him to do this.

He stated he, himself, liked BILLY NAPLES, but when such a

thing was ordered, he was powerless to interfere.

MEZZATESTA

also stated that Molo made

factions and he would work for any group for money, and that

was what finally caused his death when it was determined that

he had "hit" some member of the "organization."

i am , an at and any

CV T-49 stated

assumed they meant either CAVALLARO OF VINCENT J. DE NIRO, Who

was killed July 17, 1961, while MOIO was in the employ of

BILLY NAPLES.

CV I-24 advised on July 24, 1964, that when the barbut

game operated in Youngstown on South

Avenue, and possibly in

struthers, Onio, JERRY CONtI had a piece of

the game; however,

he was later cut out, apparently when CHARLES CAVALLARO shared

and was definitely out of the game when it operated in Campbell,

Ohio.

-4 -

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Fir

Re:

DOMINICK MOIO - DECEASED

CV T-1 advised on June 29, 1964, that in conversation

on the night of June 28, 1964, he learned from his source that

DOMINICK MOIO was Involved In

both the BILLY NAPLES and the

CAVALIARO bombing murders, but did not know by whom he was

and whoever was Involved was afraid of him. CV T-l also stated

his source told him that MOIO was allegedly a brother-in-law of

PAT FERRUCCIO of Canton, Ohio,

and it was behind FERRUCCIO's

club in Canton that MOID was killed, and the body placed in the

trunk of his car and driven to a rural section outside of Canton

where it was recovered on September 3, 1963.

CV T-51 stated on July 1, 1964, that ANGELINE CONSTANTINO,

the former girlfriend of DOMINICK MOIO, had visited him recently

on two occasions. On one of these occasions, he stated she was

about to tell him something regarding BILLY NAPLES, but they were

interrupted by a customer and she never completed what she was

going to say..

CV. T-51 stated he has not visited CONSTANTINO at

her home because her two daughters might get the wrong impression

and tell others about his visit. CV T-51 agreed that CONSTANTINO

would undoubtedly have much information about the activities of

MOIO and his relations with BILLY and JOEY NAPLES.

CONSTANTINO had told him that she belleved the NAPLES brothers

were responsible for MOIO's death and she had warned Nolo prior

to his death to stay away from the NAPLES.. CV T-51 stated

CONSTANTINO never explained to him why she was so afraid of

the NAPLES.

CV T-51 also stated that only a short time after MOIO

met CONSTANTINO, MOIO was working behind the bar. He stated

that at that time a Youngstown police officer named BILLY KELLY

was also a frequent visitor at the tavern operated by CONSTANIINO

and probably became as well acquainted with MOIl as did CV T-51.

He stated that on one occasion BILLY KELLY approached him with

a request that he, CV T-51, borrow $5,000 from MOIO and that

KELLY and he would then start their own business. He recalled

that subsequent to MOIO's death he mentioned this to KELLY,

: - 6 -

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 17

---

## Page 18

whose remark was, "It is too bad we didn't borrow the money

because now we wouldn't have to pay it back."

It was pointed out to CV T-51 that at the time of

BILLY NAPLES! death, he must have had some conversation with

both MOIO and CONSTANTINO regarding NAPLES! death, since he was

aware of the friendship between MOIO and NAPLES.

He/stated that

It there was any conversation, he does not now recall what was

said.

CV I-51 advised that recently LOU TORMA (phoretic)

(LOUIS LE PORIS), who was employed by the NAPLES brothers as

a repairman in the operation of the United Music Company, had

contacted him to buy some electronic parts.

TORNA appeared

accompanied by an individual whom he described as short,

wearing a hat and glasses, and who it would appear was probably

PAUL HOLOVATICH who is associated with the NAPLES brothers in

the Center Sandwich Shop operation. ' He stated he inguired of

TORMA as to how business was going, and TorMA reprederals."

being bothered by the local police and the

At this point, the individual belleved to be HOLOVATICH reminded

TORMA of the time he stopped the "federals" with his car.

HOLOVATICH then terminated his statement with "those s-- b--."

He stated he does not know HOLOVATICH.

CV T-51 advised that in 1957, PAUL CLAUTTI of Youngs-

town and CAVALLARO were partners in a trucking company for about

three or four months.

CAVALLArO put up most of the money and

they had three or four dump trucks which they used to haul gratel

from Pennsylvania to Liberty Township, Ohio, north of Youngstown,

where a sewer line was being installed. CV T-51 stated that

because of the inexperienced truck drivers whom they employed,

one of whom wrecked the

truck, the business was not successful

and folded.

It was pointed out to Cv I-51 of the FBI's intense

Interest in solving the CAVALLARO bombing. He stated he was

very interested In determining who was responsible for the killing

and added he believed ANGELINE CONSTANTINO had considerable Infor-

mation regarding MOIO's activities.

He stated he did not know

personally whether MOIO was Involved in the CAVALLARO k1lling,

- 7 -

NW 68262 Docld:32298216 Page 18

---

