# docid-32303511

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency. Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10023

HQ

CR 92-3245-21

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

68486 Date: 12-02-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MILLER, SAMUEL A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/07/1963

PAGES :

20

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, REL, AMATO, FRANK, ASSOC, RES, CRIMINAL A/O

POLIT ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i

v9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32303511 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-221

"CASEY" KSZAJ, Braddock; JIM BUTLER, Allegheny County

PoSperari's Office, Pittsburgh; and AL EDSTROM, former

council member, Braddock, Pa.

Will report results of telephone checks with Bell

Telephone Company of Pennsylvania pertaining to the

following telephone numbers:

Underhill 3-8961

Underhill 3-9973 (coin box)

Brandywine 1-3986

Valley 3-8964

3. Will examine bank records of FRANK AMATO and FRANK D.

AMATO at the Braddock National Bank, Braddock, Pa.

4. Will examine bank records of FRANK and FRANK D.

AMATO.

Also the Adrilee Motor Motel at the Peoples Bank

and Trust Company, Route

30, North Huntingdon Township.

5. Will check Fictitious Names Registration, Allegheny

County, Pa., to determine whether FRANK AMATO

has sold

his

coin machine distributing company to PETE MARAGOS.

6. Will report results of income tax data being furnished

by the Bureau.

7.

will interview It. GEBHARDT "BOOTS" READE, Braddock

Police Department, and PG 582-C.

It is to be noted that

interview of the latter individuals has been delayed

pending further investigation in this case.)

ADMINISTRATIVE

information to

SA NORMAN T

• THOMPSON on 10/26/62 is Mrs. JANE M. HELLER,

Receptionist.

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32303511 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-221

The source at the Gulf Oil Corporation, City Line Avenue,

Philadelphia, Pa., who furnished information to IC EDWARD

A. SHIELDS is S. G. STEINER, Supervisor, Credit Cards,

Eastern Region.

airtel to the Bureau, 6/22/62,

captioned,

" Philadelphia file 92-444, Bufile 92-2717,

Pittsburgh file 92-434, contained information pertaining

to FRANK AMATO.

Copies of this communication werenot

previously routed to Pittsburgh file 92-221.

On 12/3/62 the Bureau advised Pittsburgh that copies

of

JFK Law 11(a)

No leads are being set forth to determine the

identity of all registered owners of vehicles at

the Adrilee Motor Motel which are reflected in

the

details of this report.

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 is JOHN MERENICK, PCI, Pittsburgh Office.

PG T-2 is MM 660-C.

PG T-3 is PG 661-C.

PG I-4 is CARL E. GRZYBOWSKI, Chief of Police,

North Huntingdon Township, Route 30, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

who requested his identity be kept

PG T-5 is PH 591-C*.

-C-

COVER PAGE

92-3245-21

1(a).

NW 68486 Docld:32303511 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-221

PG I-6 IS BETTY ORRIS, PCI, Pittsburgh Office.

PG T-? Is JACK P. MC CAULEY, Partner, McCauley and

Mccauley, L/1/ Tuscarora Street, Pittsburgh, who

requested his identity be kept

confidential.

-D*-

COVER

PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32303511 Page 4

---

