# docid-34529653

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

03/07/96

1

JIK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

:194-10007-10422

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: X1332650W

- PAGES

497-500

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

: [ RESTRICTED ]

TO

:

TITLE : AGENT REPORT

DATE: 04/16/70

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS : NAGELL, RICHARD C.

TRINKALA, VICTOR L:

FORT LEAVENWORTH,

KANSAS

CONSCIENTIOUS. OBJECTOR

DISCHARGE FROM ARMY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection &et of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

64954 Date: 09-22-2022

NW 64954 Docld:34529653 Page 1

---

## Page 2

.?

122

AGENT REPORT

(AR 331-130; FM 30-11)

153

MAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

'CRINKATA,

Victor Lo

DPOB: 28 Noverbex 1950; Rochester, Pa.

PVI' -JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

2. DATE SUBMITTED

16 April 1270

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OF FILE NUMEER

9321 - 6005

REPORI OF FINDINGS

(MISCELLANEOUS) On 14 April 1970, Herfer Muneer. also Known as

20 105871

Desi Clerks,

Hotel, Strand, 206 West 432 Stroet, New York,

residing at Room 301, Hotel, Woodstock, 127 West 43a

Street,

New Yerk, New York 10036

was interviewed at his residence in an attempt

to identify Richara Negell's current address, business connections, physical

description and to query muneer as to why Nagell was allegedly instrumental

in geting Victor to TRIMALA separated fron the military service and how

Mogell was able to do so. Source stated in substance as follows:

Muneer knew hicnara Wagell es a former United States Army Officer,

Cantain Richara C. Nagell and first met hin in 1950, while both, source

and Nager, vere serving sentences at the Federal Prison (MP) ai

Leavenworth, Kansas. From 1955 to 27 November 1958, wher Source wos relea

sed from the Fl, Source saw SUEJECT daily on a friendly basis as a fellow

Inmate. While at the IP, Nageil toid Source that he was a l'omer United

priy Captain,

and had been an investigator for the CIA (Central

Intelligence Agency, or the CIC (Counterintelligence Coups, further Ce

tails unknown.

According to lagell, wile he was working for the above

mentioned agency, Wagell was directly involved with the investigation of

the acsassination of former President Jonn I. Kennedy, and while on busineos

in a bank 11 El. Poso, Texas, Negeil Vas arrested by the civilian authorities

and charged with sore kind of telony invoiving traveler checks, further

details unknown. As a result of this arrest, Nagell vas convicted and con

fined to the IP at Fort Leavennorth, Kanses.

On 27 November 1960, Source

was released from the IP and since then had seen Nogell, on approximately

four occasions on a friendly and social besia.

Source lasi saw Mecell. at

the Hotel Strand sometime in December 1969.

Mineer was wable to fumish

ay infornation concerning Nagell's present business comnections or there

abouts, Sometine in 1969, exact date unrecalted, Nagell gave Source the

following mailing address:

Mo Rochard C. Nogell, P. O. Eux 2337, Grann

Central Station, New York, New York: 10017, Source did not know if Wagell's

mailing address

is still valid.

Source furnished the following physical, description of Negell:

Name:

Nacionality:

Age:

Race :

height:

weight:

Built:

Pichard C. Nageli

United

States catizer

Approximately 3u or 32 years old

Caucasian

6'1" to. 692"

497.

170 to 180 Ins.

Medi uni

(Continua)

S. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZAMIOH OF SFECIAL AGENT

CAPISTRANO FABON-IRIZARRE, 108tn MT. Co(I-ST3

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT I

NW 64954 Docld:34529653 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AGENT NEPORT

(AR 30Í-130; FM 3017)

NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

TRE NALA,

Victor I

DPOB: 28 November: 1950; Rochester, Fa.

PVT JFK Act 5 (9) 12) (D

4. REFORT OF FINDINGS

(MISCELLANEOUS Continued)

Color of Heir:

Color of Eyes:

Physical Defects:

2. DATE SUBMITTED

16 April 1970

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OF FILE NUAGER.

9321 - 6006

Remarks:

Brown

Unknown

None; however, while at the FB

at Fort Leavensorth, Kanses,

Nagell was believed to havê had

a physical. detect which was cor

rected.

further details unknow."

Negell

does not wear glasses or a

mustache and he is always clean

shaven o

Sometime in 1968, while Source was on duty as a Desk Cler at the

Strand Hotel fron 1600 to 2400 hours, sueict cane on the hotel desk and rem

quested that source allow HiM to sleep at the hotel that night since SUBJECT

was from out of town and did not have any money to rent a room.

Source of

fered his room at the Woodatock Hotel for chat night, which SubJeCt accepted.

Since then, Source and SuBtECt have been close friends, and Source shared his

roon with SoBict until approcimately three weeks aso when SUBJECT left the

hotel with sone triends, and Bource had not seen FuM since.

SUBULOT told Source that He was originally from Pitteburg, Fannsyl.

varie, where he lived with his nother, urs, rinkale, prior to coning to

Ney york City, source bao dever met irs, frankata, however, Source had

talked with ber telephonically on several occasions. To Source le inowledge,

SUBJRCI'S parents have been either separated or divorced for several years,

further details unknowie

SUBJECT has several other brothers and sisters,

nates unknown.

During July. or August 1969,- SURiEON was inducted into the

United States Army and vas assigned to foru Cordon, Ceorge, for basic mili-

lazy traininge SUBJECT always discussed with Source the fact that HE was a

very religious individual and HE considered HIMSELE a Conscientious Objector

During one of Source's telephone conversations with SUBol'S mother, Mess

Trinkala told Source that she wos making the necessary arrangements with her

Senator in Pittsburg, name unknown, to get SuBmot out of military service.

At this time, Source tolä SUBJECt'S mother that he felt it vould be circicult

to get SUBBOT Out of military service; however, source felt that he could

help ber and SUBJECT in obtaining SUBJDOT'S tronster to the United States

Army Chaplain School, (USACS), Fort Hanilton, Brooklyn,

New York. In December

1969, a couple of days after source's conversation with select's mother,

Sovzce met Nagell at the Strand Hotele Since Source imen Necell to be a

fomen United states Amy Captain, Source told, Nagell about SUbCt and re-

quested advice from Nagell as to what coula be

done f0 have SUBJECT

(Continued)

S. TYPEO NAME AND DAGANIZATION OF SPECIAL ACENT

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

CAPISTRANO PARON-TRIZARRY, LOStA 1Q GO (I-STAN

FORM

NW 64954 Docld:34529653 Page 3

---

## Page 4

22 108. 00

AGENT

(AR 381-130; FM 3017)

mg

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

TRINKALA, Victor Lo

DPOB: 28 November 1950; Rochester, Far

•PVIC

FK Act 5 (9) (2) 1D

DATE SUCMITTEO

16 April 1970

CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE HUMPER

9321 •. 6006

1. PEPORT OF FINDINGS

(MISCELTANEOUS-Continued)

trensferred to USAOS..

At this time, SUBJSCI vas at Oakland Arny Terninal

with. PCS orders for Vietnam:

Negel immediately sent a telegram addressed

co the Commanding Ceneral,

Strth United States Amy, zequesting SUBJEOT'S

cransfer to USACS since SUBJACT was a Conscientious

Objectore Nagell had.

never met SUBobCT personally; however, the seme night that Nogell sonif the

retegram to sixth Army in regard to SubJect, source talked in suether by

telephone and aù that time Nagell was introduced to SUBJECI telephonicallye

Source belteved that neither Nogell nor Source was instrumental in geüting

SUBCCI separateü from the service, since it is a fact that suBwach's mother

mentioned to Source that she was making the necessary arrangements through

her Senator in Pittsburg to gei SUBmet separated from the military service.

It de source's opinion, that either Mrs. Trinkela or her Senator was in

strumental in getting sUbJect out de the miticarys

Source knew of no other

efforts or attempts made by either Source or Nagell, to get SUBJECT separated

from the militacy service.

Source could not offer any further inforation

concerning Magell and had not seen him since that night that Nogell wrote

the telegram in behalf of subJeCT.

In December 1969, SUBMCI was discharged fron the United Stotes

Army, reason unknow to sources

susJnor returned to New York City and

continued to share Source's apartment at the Woodstock Hotel.

At that

time, source recalled that he was illegally convicted and confined to the

FP for the use, possession and selling of narcotics.

Since SUBJECT is a

young man and

there is & narcotics problem in the New York City area, souice

started counselling SUBTROT against the use of narcotics on drugs..

secured & icb for SUBJeCt at the Clinton liotel, 19 West 3ust Street, New

York, Now. York, Where SUBDOT started working during the day shirt.

SuBJECt was working during the day, Source suggested to subJect that He

register at the evening classes offered at the INCA so that He could finish

HUS high school educatione

To Source's knowledge, SUBJECt never completed

high school and Source was unable to state whether or not SUBJECT ever

registered in the evening classes offered at the YMCA, Approximately three

WeCKS ago, SUBJECT was at Source ie roon ai

the Woodstock Hotel with some

friends, not further identified. SUBJROl Jeft the Woodstock Hosel with Ine

friends

and Source had not seen Mi since then.

fo Source"s knowledge,

SUBJECT had never been approached or been in contact with snyone representing

policies inimical to the best interests of the United States and it is Sources

opinion that SUBJECT would report to the proper United States authorities if

He were ever approeched by such a person: 0U62:01 was considered to be loysi.

to the United Stetes and to favor and support the Constitution of this

country.

SUBJECT 1s walling to defend the United States askinst ali enemies;

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

499

(Continuea)

6. SIGHATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

CAPISERANO PABON-TRIZARRY 208th MI Gp (I-ST)

NW 64954 Docld:34529653 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FOR OFREIAL

ASE ONLY CR

AGENT REPORY

(AR. 382-130; FM 3017)

1. NATE OF SUGIECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

TRUNKAA, Victor In

DPOB: 28 Noverber 1950; Rochester; Pa.

PVT = JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

2. GATE SUBMITTED

16 April 1970

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FRE NUMBER

9321 a 6006

REPORT OF FINDINGS

(MISCETLANEOUS Continued)

however,

since HE 1s a Conscientious Objector, susiECT would hesitate to kill

anyone other than in self-defense.

Barfez Meer reconmended thet Victor I. TRINKALA be favorably

considered for ascionnent to a position of trust and responsibility with the

United States Army:

AGENT'S NOTES: During the course of this interview, it was noted

by the undersigned that Source appeared to be genuinely interested in the

well being of SUBunCh and on several occasions Source made it clear that be

wanted to help Him,

Source appeared to be truthtal, and atways answered the

questions asked in a straightforward mannes and without hesitation.

It was

also noted that the notel room occupied by Source at the Woodstools Hotel

containeô only one bed, which gave reason to believe that SuBJECt and Source

were sleeping in one bed while sharing the room at the hotel, When Source

was quarted concerning SUBBCT, Source presented for inspection a copy of

subJect's Sworn Statement completed by HIM on 19 February 1970 and signed by

Hit on 20 February 1970.

500

S. MIRED NAME AND ONGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NW 64954 Docld:34529653 Page 5

---

