# docid-32298466

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10242

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2914-3RD NR 23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/08/1958

9

GM, RES, SUR, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

NW 68262 Docld:32298466 Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

PG 92-228,

92-236

in their home and receive practically no visitors

whatever:

She stated that in several casual conversations

With Mrs. MANNARINO since last contacted she has not spoken

of her husband's location nor mentioned any plans to leave

New Kensington for the summer.

JAMES GO POST, neighborhood source, 216 Highland Avenue,

New Kensington, Pa. (telephone number Batson 5-7733) on

May. 27, 1958, advised SA DOUCE that he had just returned

ron his business trip to the orient and learned of the

Tol's interest in SANURE MANWARINO Crom Mes. POSg. Ne

Stated that he would be happy to given his assistance to

the FBI and would be especially alert for any evidence that

would indicate that GABRIEL MANNARINO might be visiting

SAMUEE MANNARINO's home.

LEADS

PEROSBURCH

At New Gaotle, Pa. (Lawrence County)

Will at the former location of Al's Beer Carden attempt to

develop Information concerting the present whereabouts of

TIM COWARD who is reported to be cooperative, and who could

furnish the location of a hunting lodge owned by the MANNARINO

brothers.

For background information refer to heading of

Places of Amusement and Hangouts Frequented in the attached

report.

At New Kensington, Pa, (Westmoreland County)

Wall maintain regulan contact with POIS MIKE; AERVOS,

WATER J. SHARKEY, PG 545-C and ed 564-0 for the purpose of

developing current information regarding the MANNARINO brothers!

legitimate enterprises, criminal activities and associates.

2. all recontact Mr and Mrs. MARSHALL HOLE, neighborhood

• sources, at 536: Charles Avenue and Vr. and Mrs. JAMES C. POST,

neighborhood sources,

at 216 Mighland Avenue.

- 3"

Did:

NW 68262 Docld:32298466 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PC: 92-223, 92-236

4.

wil report investigation being conducted by the

Los Angeles Office to develop information regarding

the NANNARINO brothers! assoclation with STEPHEN

ZoCcoLT who according to the Los Angeles Police Department

reportedly made an unsuccessful attempt to enter the

bar business in Northern California several years ago

because as associacion wich the MANNARINO brothere came

to the attention of the local possee.

Investigation

requested in Pittaburgh airtel to Bureau, 4/30/58:

When information la received fron Philadelphia will

document Philadelphia too hoedlums JANES OSTICO and ANGELO

SCIANDRA who according to former comnissioner of investigation;

New Vork State, were in GABRIEL MANNARINO's automobile at

Apalachin, New Yoric, on November 14, 7957.

6. will document top hoodlum RUSSELE BUFALINO when infomation

le received from Philadelphia:

Investigation requested

in Pittsburgh airtels to Philadelphia, 5/17 and 20/58.

7.

W111 recontaot POL ALFRED CHARLES ZAPPA concerning the

DAVID LAWRENCE and SONNY INU), who is probably identica

in New Kensington:

8. Will follow and report SAMUEL MANNARINO'@ physical

condition.

Will report investigation being conducted by the Philadelphia

ofticensati" the American Export Lines to determine whether

•CARRIEL MANNARINO made a reservation on the: "Independence"

for May 6, 1958:

10. Will report results of supplemental investigation being

conducted by the Washington Field offtee at the Passport

Division, Departnent of State, to deterine whether GABRIEL

MANNARINO has requested permission to travelaroad since stop

was put into effect on February 3, 1958.

NW 68262 Docld:32298466 Page 3

---

