| NW 68261
| Docld:32239448 Page 1

ennedy Assassination
ecords Collection Act of

‘992 (44 USC 2107 Note),

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10440
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 11

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United.
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 9

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95


|

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

HESS, JACQUELINE

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS
Box 2.

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

HSCA

AGENCY INFORMATION

180-10060-10440

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

10/21/76
10

PRINTED FORM
U

3
P
06/04/93

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

"NW 68261
Docld:32239448 Page 2

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM athe

(Please Use Typewriter Cy U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES(_ ) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

A i on. this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Jacqueline Hess 12/31/78
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

1 Appointment
OO Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

© | CG Leave without pay (Begin
Assassinations close of business

th effective date above and ending

{If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title - | Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant {includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.
2. BI Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Ref 25-__of SEB_Congress.

3. D1 Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer. of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______________. If applicable, Level_______. Step.
| certify that this authorization is not in. violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of
relatives.

Dote. January 2 79

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
Ployees, except those.of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the. Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

Payroll__________-- |

W 68261
locid:32239448 Page 3



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FOP, ¥

(Please Use Typewriter. S=-4" U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. <Any erasures, corrections, or changes

A " ‘on .this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

‘i

BME ee

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: 4

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
| dacquéline Hess November 1, 1978
|

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

O Appointment

Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
1 C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations 1 Leave without pay (Beginning with date above and ending

close of business_

-)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) ‘

Position Title Gross Annual Salary* F 4
$29,300.00 :
i
| * If employee ‘is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives),-the gross annual salary shown should include the ‘annuity received by the employee .j
| plus the salary received from the employing office. d
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) poy

| 1. G1 Standing Committee: Staff—CI Clerical or C1 Professional. q
| 2. Bl Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 225. off 5#®. congress. i
3. 0 Joint Committee. |

| (If Employee of an‘Officer of the House, complete item below.) Be
| Position Number__. If applicable, Level______. Step______.. H
4
A
| certify that this authorization -is not in violation of 5 U.S,C.--3110(b), prohibiting the employment of”
relatives. 3 Ea 4
Noverber. 8 4
. “Ts
| ‘ORES. q
Tr a

+.» All-appointments and salary adjustments for.employees "under -the House Classification-Act.and for Committee em:
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee ‘on the-Budget, and the Joint Committees;-must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Copy for’ Initiating. Office or Committee

W 68261 Tp ee = —
ocid:32239448 Page 4 é ’ :



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM Ss
* (Please: Use ‘Typewriter -.U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: > (Any erasures;:corrections, or. changes

ar Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 an, this form rust be nialed by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action: |

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) a Effective Date

dacqueline Hess VWs 77
Employee Social Security Number’ ee Type of Action ‘ ~ }
CO Appointment (
~~ Employing Office or Committee HWW Solory Adjustment |
Assassinations (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action isan Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title ; Gross Annual Salary

Deputy Chief Researcher $27 ,806

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (] Standing Committee: Staff-[_] Clerical or [1] Professional.

2.

=]
on
¥
3
8.
a
g
o
o
3
&
ra
§
3
3.
o
8
>
=
>
g
3
I
=
»
g
x
Ss
et
ice
wo
fa
al
§
g
3
8

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) » a

Position Number.

| certify that this authorization: is. not in: violation of 5 USC.
relatives. e

3110(b), prohibiting the employment of 3
wy

£

Date.___ November

eb

“ “All appointments: and salary adjustments for‘employees ‘under the’ House. Classification Act and:for*Committeeem:-
ployees,.except those of the Committee on Appropriations; thé: Committee -on the Budget,-and the Joint. Committees; must”
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

- APPROVED:..

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

W 68261
locid:32239448 Page 5

we



NW 68261

Docld:32239448- Page 6°""~

To: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
From: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director AK 9?
Date: November 7, 1977 ple 2

Re: Salary Adjustment - one year anniversary

Adjust the salaries of the following individuals as. indicated

effective November 1, 1977

Employee “Present Salary 7.05% Increase New Salary
Akers $24,000 $1,700 $25,700 —~
Blackmer 24,000 1,700 25,700 ~~
Gay 36,000 2,500 38,500 ~~
Hess 26,000 1,800 27,800 ~~
McPherson 16,000 . 1,100 17,100 ~~
Orr, Patricia 17,500 1,200 18,700 +—~



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION--FORM”

| « . s+ (Please Use Typewriter’. U.S: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: ~~ (Any: erasures, corrections, or:changes

F 7 5 on this form must: be initialed by 4 the 4
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D:C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk. of the. House: of-Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

. Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : ; Effective Date
Jacqueline Hess 8/1/77

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action ;

| 1 Appointment

| Employing Office or Committee (A Solary Adjustment

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type of action-is.an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information:)

ios sdewaltl ic la dia

Position Title ; Gross Annual Salary iz
Baputy Chief Reseaecher 26,006

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. G) Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [J Professional.

465. op 95th

2.

Ge

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res...

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of. an’ Officer.of the House, complete item’below:) -

¢

Position Number. \f applicable, Level

| certify-that this authorization. is~not in violation’ -of 5+ U.S.C. 3110(6),. prohibiting. theemployment ‘of
relatives.

{Type oF print nome.of Authorizing Oficial) =

CHATRMAN

(Title=If Member, Distriet and Stote)

All appointments:and_salaryadjustments for employees" under. the House:Classification Act and ‘for-Committée ‘em:
ployees,-except-those of: the Committeeon’Appropriations; thee Cominittee “on ‘the: Budget, and the"doint-Committees} must
be approved by the:Committee on: House. Administration. "= 2 +

APPROVED:

dani stad

Office of Finance-use only:”
Office Code.

W 68261 ee
locld:32239448 Page 7 i



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION. FORM.—

(Please Use Typewriter

-U:S.“HOUSE-OF REPRESENTATIVES: -

on this form must be initialed by. the.

(Any erasures,-corrections,or-changes:

or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

thereby authorize the following payroll action:

Washington, D.C.:20515~

authorizing official.)

7 Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date. -

dacqueline Hess

8/6/77

Employee: Social Security Number.

Type of Action ..

(1 Appointment

Employing Office or Committee

AG3] Salary Adjustment:

Assassinations

( Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type-of;action. is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

$24,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. E) Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or

2.

Ey

3. LJ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number.

All-appointments and salary-adjustments

ployees,-except:those:of:the Committee. on-Appropriations; the Committee: on the Budget, and:the.Joint Committees; must»

be-approved. by the Committee on: House Administration.

APPROVED:

Special or Select Committee: Authority—H: Res.”

Professional.

_.If applicable, Level______. Step__.___...

“~*igignature of Authorizing Official)
LO ‘tout $ Stekes
Type of print come of Avhorising Official

Chairman

(Title-if Member, Districtand State) >

r employees under the House -Classification: Act-and. for Committee. em-

aii ili ales Eka tai i a A Steal oN eli

Office of Finance. use only:
Office Code.

cis es Se Si ila Se deat

|
:

ae

ibd nasal

|| NW 68261
locid:32239448 Page 8



~ 7 |
PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM - |
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or.changes ©
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C, 20515 Seale oft ee y me
To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action: |
Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) "Effective Date
Jacqueline. Hess 4/1/77 :
_ . . 4
. Employee Social Security Number aot Type of Action 4
4
. ; 1 Appointment |
+ j
| Employing Office or Committee Gi Solary. Adjustment : 4
p ae Li Termination (At close of business on effective date)
|
(If type of-action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete:the following information.) i
4
j
Position Title Gross Annual Salary 4
$47,500 |
4
|
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) 4
4
: 1. [1 Standing Committee: Staff-[] Clerical or {1 Professional. - i
4
_ 2. [X] Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 4
|
3. [J Joint Committee.
(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number___-2---- If applicable, Level. Step_______. 4
q
\ certify that. this: authorization is not -in- violation. of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b); prohibiting the. employment of 4
relatives. ee a |
ae
Dote____-__--.--------_ April 29.1977. x
wa (Signoture of Authorizing Official
“Louis Stokes

2) All appointments and salary. adjustments for-employees under the.House: Classification Act-and for Committee em=:"
+... ployees,..except:those.of the-Commitee on Appropriations, the Committee on the-Budget, and the Joint.Committees,-must:~
be approved by the Committee on House Administration. .- See

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.__.

=
o
Fe
=
<
>
3
5
a
<=
on
roy
=)

Copy: for Initiating Office or Committee

|| NW 68261 i a eee
ocid:32239448 Page 9 : ve



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM... 2 bate

Js (Please Use Typewriter; U:S:: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES™~ «=~ (Any erasures; corrections, or-changes:. 2.2
or Ballpoint Pen)» Washington; D.C. 20515: ‘on: this form must be initialed by the. 4

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) 7. ~ Eifective Date” : on

Jacqueline Hess 201-77
: Employee-Social Security:Number’ — Type of Action
[Receniorcoma) Cl Appoinimen
Employing Office or Committee $69 Solory Adjustment |

C1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Select Comnittee on Assassinations

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment,,complete the following information.) ~ os -

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

$14,760,600

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item: below.)

1. C Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or {] Professional.

2. EF Special or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 4. of 99. congress

4
3. [) Joint Committee. |
4

(If Employee of an- Officer of the House, complete item below.) | me
Position Number. if applicable, Level 22-2. Stepi2. 4
|..certify.“that -this- authorization: is “not in. violation’ of .5U.S:C:"3110(b); prohibiting: the employment :of A
relatives. 4
1 28 = 4
Date. 28-77 WL a I
7 {Signature of Authorizing Official) a
Henry B. Gonzalez 4
TTT TTT Bip or print name of Authoring Olli TT 4
4

If Member, District and State}

appointments and.salary-adjustments.for-employees. under: the:House Classification’Act-and. for Committee-em

ployees, except. those -of the, Committee: on: Appropriations; the Committee“on-the, Budget; and: the: Joint Committees; must.”
be approved by the-Committee.on:House:Administration:::-% chee > ates dae ae

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

W 68261 ah oe
ocid:32239448 Page 10 i ar


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(PleaseUse Typewriter. 4__.U.S)- HOUSE OF “REPRESENTATIVES _— (Any erasures, corrections; or changes

a ; on this form must be initialed . by the
Ee or Ballpoint.Pen) ‘Washington, D.C. 20515 authotizing official.)

| To the Clerk of the House’ of Representatives: a, : : : |

| lhereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date | |
: \
Jacqueline Hess ( Yat « i J ; |
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action _ | \
- CO Appointment
Employing Office or Committee fp) Salary Adjustment. |
* “ os ous (1 Termination (At close of business on effective date) |
|: Select Committee on Assassinations at

(if type of action is an Appointment or Salary:Adjustment, complete the following information)

Position-Title ~ / . ] Gross :Annual-Salary
a - : g “ Z|
- S i
| _ : |
(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.) ‘s = F 4
| 1. G Standing Committee: Staff) Clerical of [1 Professional. : |
a E q - ~
| 2. i] Special or Select Committee: Authority —H. Res... |
1 ; : oo u
| ‘ _ 3.) Joint Committee. ~ 7 SS L . , |
. : i
'
% J,
(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) . . aon
| ; y /

Position Number. {Fapplicable;Level________ Step. |
_ . |
~b certify that this authorization is not.in violation of 5. U:S.C, = 3110(b} - prohibiting the employment of
| relatives. , > 7 7
|
Tivpe or print name of Authorizing O

- airman .

All- appointments and-salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification: Actzand for Committee.em- .
| ~~ ployees; except-those of the Committee on: Appropriations, the Committee-on the Budget, andthe Joint Committees; must \
|’ be approved by the Committee or’ House Administration. . L \

, . APPROVED:. \
| A . ‘on Housé Administration |
: |
| a
Office of Finance use only: °” Lo _ !
| |
Office Codes 2 ° i
! ’ , q
Monthly Annuity $ |

- |
° |

W 68261 FO ae a ———
locid:32239448 Page 11 i :


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. re

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

ox
< Cou. S.: HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVES \_,

Washington;.D.C. 205

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives: ~

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

1

)» (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date '~ 2°

AU

Type of Action

S8iect Comaittes on Ass

CD Appointment

3] Salary Adjustment. and title

change

[1 Termination {At close of business on effective date)

. f
(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following’ information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

“Deputy Chief Researcher

(If Committee Employee, coinplete penne item below)
2 [1 Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or] Professional.
2. [E] Special or Select Comittee? Authority—H. Res. 14° __ oF 98 Congress
3.0 ae Committee.
(If Employee of on Officer of the House, complete item below.)
Position Number. --- applicable, level__W-.-. Step.

| certify that. this authorization is not in’ violation: of 5 “USC. 3110(b), prohibiting “the employment of

relatives.

All.appointments and salary adjustments for employees under: the: Housé .Classification-Act and: for. Committeevem-. :
ployees, except those: of the.Gommittee-on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

“be approved by the Committee on House Administration. -_

APPROVED:

X

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.__.

Copy for Initiating Office’ or

Committee

W 68261
ocld:32239448 Page 12



4
(Please Use U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES @ Orrections, or changes

7 on this form must be initialed by the
| . or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| | hereby authorize the following payroll action: lole §2

| _ Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

| Jacqueline Hess October 21, 1976 |
| Res Employee Social Security Number _ Type of Action I
Ena (3 Appointment
Employing Office or Committee O Salary Adjustment

; F . Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Select Committee on Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

QO
Assistant Chief Researcher “7 $20,000.

y ~

(if Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. (2) Standing Committee: Staff] Clerical or [] Professional.

| 3. [1] Joint Committee.

10 2875 PHI2: 8!
Hos R, FINANCE OFFICE

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number___-_ If applicable, Level Step_______-

| certify that this authorization. is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b, prohibiting the employment of
relatives. :
Date. _____ 2 October 26,1976 _Ss\s

(Signature of Authorizing

Thomas N. Downing

{Type or print name of Authorizing Oficial

ial)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of thé Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

| Nw 68261

} Docid:32239448- Page 13



>= a

O O
MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees
FROM: Budget Officer
DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification
to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the
relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current
Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in
‘the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law

mother niece sister-in-law

son. husband stepfather Fae

daughter wife stepmother...“ i
", brother father-in-law stepbrother |

sister mother-in-law stepsister

uncle son-in-law half-brother

aunt. daughter-in-law half-sister

first. cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this
form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not. related ae

-I-am related by the following relationship

gnzture of Employee

| ree

W 68261 a

locld:32239448 Page 14 i a i
