# docid-32555389

## Page 1

Report For: a

F1-78 (8-12-55)

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

ANTACHY JOSEPH ACCARDO, aka;

GUSLALEX, aka;

FRANK FERRARO, 8ka;

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka;

HURRAY LLEVELYN HUMPHREYS, aka

DATE

7/29/60

REPORT MADE HY

MARSHALL E. RUTLAND

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/26 - 7/20/60

ANTI - RACK-TEERING

TYPIO BY

REFERENCE: Report of SA RALPH B. HILL, JB., dated 5/36/60 at Chicago.

=₽ .

THIS REPORT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMIKATED

This report is a consolidation of investigation concerning

the five captioned hoodlums of the Chicago 011ico.

The great

majority of the information contained in this report will be

Included in the cover section inasuuch as nost of this was obtained

Iron CG 6343-C*, & highly sensitive source.

LEAD

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Will continue to conduct and

report investigation concerning the background and activities of

Chicago hoodluas ANTHONY ACCARDO, GUS ALEX, FRANK FERRARO, SAM

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

COPIES MADE:

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

See Cover Page B for coples

57.%

NOT RECORDED

149 AUG 1: 1960

GOVER PAGE

ORTGINAL

FILE

NW 68262 Docld:32555389 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 05C 2107 Note].

EaTIN 68262 Date: 09.22-2022

---

## Page 2

CG 92-795

HUMPARKYS:

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

I°11

Let JoE send him in.

203 %

tak to him and have

him go to

JOE and

Or s

I could send him

to the lawyer,

but I'n just trying to

avoid that question 11 it came up.

I don't think it will, but it's good.

We got to

set another witness.

Another one!

We got

get a det

of then!

And we got to

get then before

they get then.

Yeah. You know who me could

get to be a

witness?

He 'd

be a hell of

& witness.

ALEX:

Who?

HUMPHREYS:

CLAIR®

the reference of alrd to MoNaGHaN

is probably a

reference to ROBERT F. MONAGHAN, al Assistant United States

Attorney in Chicago.

The reference

tO CLINTON

18 & reference to STANFORD CLINTON, who is an attorney in Chicago,

and who is one of the attorneys representing ANTHONY ACCARDO in

his pending trial.

It is obvious

that

the conversation concerns

the trial of ACCARDO,

who has been indicted for fraudulently

charging expenses for the use of his

autonobile which he claims

he used to sell "Foxhead Fourhundred" beer for the Premium

Beer sales, Incorporated.

"It

Hupists are concerned with finding witnesses who will back

• done toed at ste

apparent that Alex and

up ACCARDO's claim that he used the car during the course

of selling "Forhead Fourhundred."

The Yorkshire

Yorkshire Room

referred

believed to be the

Restaurant located

at 2842 North Sheridan Road

in Chicago®

The reference

to STIVE by AlEX midway in the conversation

1s probably & reference

to StEVE dE ROSTA.

It is noted

that DE KOStA is ostensibly the ower and manager of the Huckster'g

Restaurant in Chicago.

According to PCI TURA SATANA, a

burlesque dancer, who

is intimately friendly with HENRY SUSK

and also well acquainted "ith GUS

ALEX, the Huckster's is operated

COVER PACE

-A-8-

NW 68262 Docld:32555389 Page 2

---

## Page 3

92-795

Tais again te in reference to the trouble presently

going on

in the International Brotherhood of Electrical

Workers, Local 134 in Chicago,

• for which lOCal LOVIE CELANO 1S

& business

agent.

Recently

other members of the local have

been making attempts

to rid

the local of CELANO, based on the

fact that his brother, JIMMY, le an associate of hoodlums in

the Chicago

The

reference

business

3 manager

ot

to

FRANK DARLING referred

another local of the Intormational

BrOCherhood

o1 LectIon. Horkers in Chicago, who has a

reputation

that he is opposed to

hoodiuns connected with

organired crime

Chicago.

VLO ASSOCLATES

On July &, 1960, CG 6343-Cs advised that MURRAY

nUm made COntaCE WIt JOSIPE 1. BULGER Who is an

attorney with offices at 188 west Randolph Street in Chicago.

He is further

" Republicar politician of

SORC

standing and

Is loner yor of loltose fark, Illinols.

On July 12, 1960, MURRAY HUKPHREYS, JOSEPH BULGER,

RALPH PIERCE, aNd LES KRUSE were Obseryed having lunch together

In the restsurant in the basement of the pittsfield Building,

155 East Washington Street,

Chicase, Ilianois

During this

meeting,

*he agents rerheard buts of the conversatior, which

indicated that BulGEr as attenting to gain some money

back gambling interests is Las Vegas, Nevada.

This meeting was

observed by agents VINCENT LE INSERRA, FOHN W. ROBERTS, WILLIAN

FO ROEMER,

and MARSHALl E. RUTLAND of

the Chicago office.

VII. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

SAN GIANCANA

On July 6, 1960,

6271-S, who has furmished reliable

information in the past;

orally advised SA WILLIAN R. CATHEY of

the Chicago OffIco that

MAUrICK Rav Is the attorney representing

the Michigan Avenue

National Bau, Chicas, Illinois, in

connection with reorganization of

the old

Southmose Bank and

must Company of Chicago, wich ligured in

the wurder of LEON

MARCUS in 1956.

According to:

the informant, the Southuore

Bank and Trust

Company has been renaned the

carranty Bark

and Trust Company and an individual by the name of DLATON,

Who

is the head of the Dalton

Finance Company of Washington, D.C.

COVER PAGE

-A-28-

NW 68262 Docld:32555389

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG

92-795

borrowed

$*00,000 Iron the Michigan Avenue National Bank to

buy LatO The die southore BaNS and LIusE

Company.

As & result

of his buying into

this

bant,

he became

the Chairwan

of the

Board of Directors

and

Imediately began

engaging in a series

• "shady transactions."

According to the informant,

"shady trensactions" were

the loan of monies to

these

local hoodlu"

elements

"In the

according

Chicago ares without proper collateral.

Further,

to the informant, the loan, mich as granted DALTON

by the Michigan Avenue Bank was guaranteed by an individual by

the

name of sTAN rho.is connected with

the Bureau of the

Budget (probably

MAURICE STANS, Director of the Bureau of the

Budget:

A suit le presently boing filed against DALTON because

of his "shady transactions."

According

to the informant, & Iatent unchained account

In the amount of $100,000 comosed of cast aud negotiable

securities is maintained at the old Southore Bark and Trust

Company.

account was placed with the southore

many years ago ass "mitty" for the crime syndleate in the

chicago area.

As there is some dispute over the omersily

o1 this account

and the

Lact that it has not been claimed, the

account is presently for sale ly the bank for $20, 000.

According

to the inforant, no buyers are

available, siupy

because they

wild be mediately exterminated by the crime

syndicate should

they attempt to purchase

this account.

According

to the informant, the late LEON MARCUS

attented to buy this

account and was mirdered by the syndicate.

It is

to be noted that at the time of Marcus death, & slip of

paper

mite the retation $100 000 on 15

togetber with

the

name

•I SAM GIANCANA, Here lound In MARCUS' possessiOn.

VILE MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

ANTHONY ACCARDO

CG

6241 - advised

on June

9, 1960, that ANTHONY

ACCARDO, bis

ware and daughter

House on East Walton Street in

spent

the evening at the Imerial

Chicago on June 3, 1960.

: ACCARDO

was observed driving a d959

or 1960 Pontiac station wagon.

While ACCARDO waS in

front

of

the Imperial House, & unit of

the Chicago Police Intelligence

Unit

passed but did not

recognize ACCarDo.

He turned

to the

informant

and said, "Look

at the screws."

COVER PAGE

- A -29-

NW 68262 Docld:32555389 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-795

July 19, 1960g

6343-0%

adrised that FRANK

FERRARO, MURRAY HUMPHRENS,

GOLE REX

and BUTCH LAdoN visited

JIMMY CHLANO during the course of the

day.

FERRARO,

during &

conversation

with

MITY

GODFREY &Nd BUTCH LADON

concerning an

unknow natter

became

extremely angry

with these two persons

and during

the

course of his tirade.

accused LADoN of being

CLOSEr

to

whom

he

CHUCK

ENGLISH than to himself and GUSSIE ALEX,

for

18

runner

PERRARO

cursed both individuas and

shouted

then

to leave

the

MoLe

roon, that he wanted nothing

to

with

then.

1960, PCI JANE OLSON advised that JANe

THEIS,

the Sunmer

Set Restaurant.

7700 South

Jeffrey

Avenue

Chicago,

Illinois, 1s

the girl

friend of FRANK

FERRARO.

further

• advised that FERRARO

Call. THEIS ON

the average of two

or three times &

wock at the restauraut

and is now to

loast once

or twice every

ADHINI STRATIVE

SAS RALPH R. HII, DR., FOUN

RUTI AND.

FRANK FERRARO conducted on

July?,

walcondueted by

and MARSHALL E.

COVER PACKE

=A-30=

NW 68262 Docld:32555389 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Roport Form

+1-78(8-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

ANTHONY JOSEPH ACCARDO, Aka.;

GUS ALEX,

FRANK TERRARO

SANUEL M. GLANCIANA,

Aka.;

MURRAY LLEWELYN HUMPHREYS, Aka.

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/26/60

3/17 - 5/23/60

REPORT MADE BY

RALPH R. HILL

CHARACTER OF CASE

REFERENCE:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

gus Alex

Report of SA WILLIAN I. ROIMER datod 4/6/60

at Chicago.

TYPED BY

ntb

THIS REPORT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED

This report is & consolidation of investigation concern-

ing the five captioned hoodluns of the Chicago Office. The great

majority of the information contained in this report will be

included in the cover section inagnuch as nost of this was obtained

fron CG 6343-C*, a highly sensitive source.

LEAD

Lister

CHICAGO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Will continue to conduct and report

investigation concerning the background and activities of Chicago

hoodlums ANTHONY ACCARDO, GUS ALEX, FRANK FERRARO, SAM GIANCANA, and

PECIAL AGEN

N CHARGI

42-3142

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

79

See Cover Page i for copies

170 MY 31 1960

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

-A-

COVER PAGE

PROPERTY OF FEE ThiN 2°19 ly by tho FBi, and neither it nor is content are to ba dietributed utide the agoney to which loaned.

NW 68262 Docld:32555389 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-795

RRH: plb

SAVARESE :

He knows. It should mean that everything is

all right. But he talked to some other

fellow there.

About a month ago. And

I know we don't like this guy so

• I spoke to

VITO and told him I might have to make a trip.

He said whenever

I didn't

lot of time lapses.. I'd rather make it

as close as possible.

it.

So that's about

FERRARO:

OK GEORGIE:

It is noted that FERRARO referred to SAVARESE as

GEORGIE, however, GEORGIE is in all probability a common

nickname used by FERRARO in his relationship with SAVARESE.

SAVARESE's reference to VITO is unknown; however, the possibility

exists that this may be VITO GENOVESE, New York top hoodlum.

DOMINIC "HUNK" GALIANO

Information pertaining to GALIANO is furnished else-

where in this report under Las Vegas Gambling Interests section.

GALIANO Who, until recently, was relatively unknown in crime

syndicate circles is, according to CG 6272-C, à rising hoodlum

on Chicago's north side who may possibly be replacing in stature

JIMMY ALLEGRETTI and JOSEPH DI VARCO.

FRANK "SKID" CARUSO

CARUSO is an old-time, well-known Syndicate gambling

representative of Chicago's south side.

CG 6343-C* advised

on April 5, 1960, that FRANK FERRARO and CARUSO had a short

meeting during which the following was discussed:

CARUSO:

Hello FRANKIE®

I just come in to drop

something

The first District. They beat

the (obscene) out of him.

FERRARO:

CARUSO:

For what.

Nothing. He was at the Brass Rail.

COVER PAGE

A - 141

NW 68262 Docld:32555389 Page 7

---

