# docid-32325846

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90038-10035

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4930-31

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/07/1964

PAGES:

• 16

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32325846 Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

DI 92-292

Penosylvania,

and if such is the

case, will consider the obtaining

Of UFAP process concerning subject

and

associates,

noting it is knowo

he has recently been in the Dallas

area.

NEWARK DIVISION

AT MORRISTOIN AND TRENTON, NEW JERSEY

Will maintain contact

with authorities concerning

prosecution pending against subject and

associates®

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT GULFPORT,

MISSISSIPPI

Will maintain contact with Mr. DAVID W. DOYLE, Alcohol

and Tobacco Tax Division,

concerning possible Federal prosecution of

subject and any information he may develop concerning the handling

of subject's probation by local authorities.

DALLAS DIVISION

AT TEXARKANA, TEXAS

Will identify and interview the subscriber to Texarkana

telephone number 792-5613 concerning call made from subject's residence

to this number and subscriber's knowledge of subject and his activities:

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will maintain contact with neighborhood source, MARI

HOLLEBEKE and informants, who are acquainted

with subject,

his

associates and activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The extensive investigation of this report has been

by the Dallas Office.. It was belleved more feasible that rescits

from

the auxiliary offices should be incorporated in the report.

The matter

has been kept in a current stus by referenced Dallas communications.

overlap in the investigative periods of this

and referenced report is due

to the receipt of the results of

investi

gation by an auxiliary office subsequent to

seferenced Dallas report.

, the submission of

- B-

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32325846 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-292

AX. P. A. BURROW, Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company,

Dallas, was contacted 3/24/64 by SA ROBERT. M.

BARRETT

ALMA A. RICHARDSON, Legal Department,

New Jersey

Bell

Telephone Company, Newark, was contacted 11/14/63

by Investigative

Clerk, HERBERT C. MEXER.

INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently being utilized by the Dallas Office

are the

following informants,

who are believed to be in a position

to

furnish

information regarding subject's activities and associates:

DI 91-C

DL 29- C

DI. 170-- C

DD: 146-C

185-CTE

DI 181-C-TE

DI. 197-6

PCI WILLIAM SOLTES

DL 208- PC

R. A. BURROWS,

Chief Special Agent, Southwestert Bell

Telephone Company

Sister BONITA FRANCES,

st. Cecilia's Grade School, DRIlaS,

who has requested her identity

be

kept confidential

IDENTITY OF INFOEMANTS

The following informants

have

furnished

rollable

information in the

past

and careru, consideration has been given

each source concealed.

I symbols were utilized in this report only

in those instances where identity of source must be concealed.

DL T-1

MARY HOLLBEKE, neighborhood surce,

who

requests her identity be kept confidential

DL T 2

DAVID W. DOt,

Investigator, Alcohol and

Tobacco

Tax Division,

Gulfport, Missleo.pry

whose identity should be protected in con

noction with this specific information

DI T-3

DI. T-4

DI T=5

DI. T=6

DN 110--C

DI 170-C

DI. 185-C-TE

DI 208-PC

C*

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32325846 Page 3

---

