JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10216-10407
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2918-87, 88
: Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. IIT
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 03/15/1960
PAGES : 13
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9

SMO, ASSOC, ARREST, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG,
CRIMINAL ACT, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4

Redact

08/27/1998

INDEFINITE,

INC MEMO

NW 68262 Docld:32296131 Page 1


PG 92-228
92-236 ‘

action. Although the trial in the case captioned, "STUART
SUTOR; etal, ITSP; IGP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY," involving
several MANNARINO associates, resulted in convictions in the
U. S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania,
Pittsburgh, in February, 1960, new information has come to
the attention of the Pittsburgh Office which involves four
additional subjects and which will require extensive,
concentrated investigation. Also, new information has been
received which will require investigation in the case
captioned, "BERNARD J. EZHAYA, etal, ITSP - MT." Investigation
of the foregoing matters is for all practical purposes
investigation of the MANNARINO organization. Coverage on the
MANNARINO organization's activities in the New Kensington,
Pa., area will be maintained by contact with informants and
PCIs. :

INFORMANTS
PG T-1 is PCI JAMES THORNTON MC CLOWRY, a Springdale, Pa.,
physician and gambler who. furnished information to SA THOMAS
G. FORSYTH, III on 1/19/60 to 9,18/60 and 3/8/60.

PG T-2 is PCI JIM KELLY, a New Kensington, Pa., numbers

‘operator, who furnished information to SA FORSYTH on 1/28/60.

PG T-3 is PCI WALTER SHARKEY, a New Kensington, Pa., resident -
close to the activities of gamblers, who furnished information
to SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE on 12/23/59 and 2/15/60.

Ri T-4 is PCI MADELINE MARCOUN, a New Kensington, Pa., numbers ~
writer, who furnished information to SA DOUCE on 2/12/60.

PG T-5 is PG 585-C, who furnished information to SA ROBERT
A, VOEGE on 12/1/59.

PG T-6 is PG 545-C, who furnished information to SA DOUCE on
12/15/59 and 2/11/60.

~ BE -

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32296131 Page 2

