# docid-32340390

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90158-10047

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-132509-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

MM

MM

DATE: 09/18/1967

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

FRANCISCO RODRIGO VALLLABRIGA

LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

69262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32340390 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL 15ORM NO. 10*

MA! 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

ENMENT

Memorandum

TO

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-132509)

FROM :

SUBJECT:

All tavor

HEROIN

BIONS A

DATE:

9/18/67

• 8/19/97

CLASSINED BY S868-14D/miLE

SAC, MIAMI (105-8988) (P)

DECLASSEY ON: 201

(JFK)

FRANCISCO RODRIGO VALLABRIGA GARCIA, aka

IS - CUBA

I7 211,38k

STON CONTAINED

ASCIFIED

Re Bureau letter dated 6/12/67.

Ciassifies by Pruta

ESQUACES

Deslassify oms

OOR

1149/85

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE ON CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 2-9-

Information has beenpreviously received

regarding the subject from CIA by memo dated 9/17/64.

The memo reflected that CIA had two sources who were

19/6/54

in a position to furnish information on the subject.

At that time, however, the sources were unavailable.

CIA has been re-contacted to determine if those

sources are available at the present tame: (TA(U)

The most recent information from CIA

concerning the subject was set out in their

communication dated 5/15/67, which was made available

to the Miami Office by the Bureau as an enclosure to

referenced Bureau letter. On 6/9/67, AUSTIN HORN,

CIA Covert, Miami (Protect) advised that the

information in memo dated 5/15/67, was furnished by

CIA Headquarters and did not originate in the United

The matter is being handled at the Washington level stru)

(V.

Chicken

It is requested that the Bureau ascertain

if the CIA source who furnished the intormatior

reported in their communication dated 5/15/67

available at this time for interview.

escl

316/0205

MM

9/26/17

intel

Concerning the pro-CAStRo activities

the

subject,

it should be

oted that MM 1070-S*, 4J

formerly Tampa 187-S*

reported on 1/15/65,

that RAUL

ANDRE and his friend referred to as "PAQUITO"

obviously the subject, had participated in a program

to detect

plans of anti-CASTRO individuals in the Miami area

DECLASSIEIEO BY 5465 SLOARS

4-16-48

105-132509:i

-REG 6

2 - Miami

1

- 105-8988)

(1

- 105-6335)

(RAUL ANDRE LLANO)

JEM: pb

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

15 SEP 20

196

(TRY )

SACRICAN

1 2/22/77

SE

ET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 68262Đgeld:32340390 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRE

MM 105-8988

A letter outlining the program was

forwarded to New York by RAUL ANDRE by a trusted

cou ner. This letter was eventually made available Cu

to the Cuban Mission of the UN (CMUN)) In the

communication forwarded to New York, ANDRE pointed

out that he and "PAQUITO" decided to tell no one

about their plans.

The fact that ANDRE indicated that knowledge

of their plans should be limited to himself and the

subject and in addition that he preferred to

transmit

the communication by a trusted courier rather

than use the United States mail service indicates the

safeguards utilized by ANDRE

and the subject to

protect their activities.

In the communication forwarded to New York

certain individuals were listed as targets, among

them being LUIS POZADA, VARELO CASTRO, and

EVILIO

ALPIZAR.

CHARLES GONZALEZ, formerly MM 801-S,

advised on 4/28/65, that VALLABRIGA on 4/25/65, went to

750 Northwest 15th Street, to contact an anti-CASTRO

individual in an effort to ingratiate himself with

this anti-CASTRO individual. According to weapons. da)

the subject offered to make available some

Street, reported that a Cuban whom he did not know

had stopped by a few nights before and attempted to sell

The Cuban who called on POSADA Wa:

referred to the latter by MARIO ANTONIA-GARCIA 1135 Southwest

6th Street, Miami, Florida... POSADA saild the Cuban who

attempted. to sell

the guns was a foreman in a factory

that manufactured the then popular long-haired "funny"

dolls".

The subject was so employed at the time.

The

physical description of the unknown Cuban matches that

of the subject.

- 2 -

NW 68262 Docld:32340390 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(SECRETI

MM 105-8988

The Miami Office is attempting to locate

LUIS POSADA, VARELO CASTRO, EVILIO ALPIZAR,

and MARIO ANTONIA GARCIA and question them

concerning the

activities of the subject.

MM 1078-S is personally acquainted with

RAUL ANDRE.

He has been instructed to intensify

his contacts with ANDRE and thereby become

acquainted with the subject.

The problem in this

regard, however, is a conflict in working hours.

Both ANDRE and the subject work a day shift

whereas MM

1078-S works a swing shift. (%)(M)

Upon his return to the Miami area MM 1070-S*

will again be encouraged to continue

his association

with RAUL ANDRE and the subject. * )(e)U)

In this regard on 1/22/67, MM 1070-S*

advised that he had a long conversation with ANDRE

and the latter advised that his group had been

inactive recently, mainly, because the entire local Cuban

section has quieted down considerably. (a)C&/ul

In addition to uM 1070-s and um 1078-5,

other sources in the Cuban field have been alerted

concerning the subject. (s

The Miami Office is contemplating complimenting

informant coverage with physical surveillances.

The

investigation to date, however, indicates that the

subiect operates within a small

and close-knit group.

In such

a situation, informants and physical surveillances

may not be sufficient to detect the activities of the

subject.

In view of the above the Miami Office is

requesting Bureau authorization to contact the

Southern Bell Telephone

and

I Telegraph Company to

obtain long-distance charges to his telephone.

- 3-

ISECR

NW 68262 Docld:32340390 Page 4

---

