# docid-32309667

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10300-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-5701-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SNIDER, JAMES F.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/29/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, RES, SHYLOCK ACT, NUMBERS ACT, RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

56752 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32309667 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 8-1-59)

ther

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INV

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

ARMAND FAUGNO, aka.

ATION,

DATE

26,1+8

11/22/63

INVESTOR TIVE PERIOD

10/1-11/20/63

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES F. SNIDER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

mpt

REFERENCE:

Report of SA JOHN J: CREAMER, JR: dated 3/14/63

at Newark.

-p-

3

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Informants u fi cit 18 reporterhead memorandu characterizing -

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK I-1

NE 2228-C

NK T-2

NEWARK PCI STERLING GUY BOWEN

• A SPECIAL RGENT

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

&-Bureau (92-5701) (mene)

I-USA, Newark

2-Newark (92-848)

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD

DATE FWD..

650C02

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

12/1/1,3

92-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

9

REG: 46

EX-102

• DEC

3. 1963

NOTATIONS

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 16-76324-1

NW 68262 Docld:32309667 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 92-843

Identity of Source

NK T-3

NK 2181-C

NK T-4

NK. 2251-04

NK T-5

Lieutenant FRANK DANIFLLO

Hoboken, N.J. Police Department

(who requested his identity be protected)

NE T-6

NEWARK PCI BETTY KEEN

LEAD

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, N.J.

Will follow and report current

activities of subject and his associates through contact

with informants and other Investigation.

B*

COVER PAGE

IIV,68262 Docld:32309667 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NX 92-843

ANTHONY PROVENZANO 1s President of Local 560, Inter-

national Brotherhood of Teamsters. He was recently convicted

in unlted States District Court, Newark, New Jersey, for

stortion and is presently-anetting to he sentenced.

APPEALING TUE CONCETON

NK T-6 advised during June, 1963, that PROVENZANO

supposedly owns the tavern at 376 Duncan Avenue, Jersey Cty,

New Jersey.

Informant stated that prior to PROVENZANO's trial

he visited this tavern two or three times a week and conferred

with FAUGNO, ROMED, and BILLY MACK. and they often would leave

together in PROVENZANO's Cadillac. NK T-6 further advised

that PAUGNO was being financed by PROVENZANO and the Teansters

Union in his shylock operation.

NK T- advised that FAUGNO. 1s operating with

complete protection iron the versey aty, New Jersey

Police

Department,

and that he maintains an office In & small roon

adjolning the bar.

NK T-6 stated that FAUGNO maintains two

guns in his desk draver and usually carrios a small gun in a

shoulder holster.

NK T-6 said that number runners frequenting

the tavern at 376 Duncan Avenue turn in their action which ig

placed behind a large hinged board that is used as a coat rack.

NK T-6 furnished the following license plates of the

automobiles used by various individuals who are associated with

FAUGNO in the bookmaking and shylock business:

CAC 994

FWL 945

EIO 151

GZJ 667

COT 324

GRA 378

FSB 174

Get 102.

The records of the New Jersey Hotor Vehicle Bureau

reflect the following information concerning the above described

license plates:

5

NW 68262 Docld:32309667 Page 4

---

