# docid-32314040

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10334-10175

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-424-69

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/30/1963

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

MEYER LANSKY (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS, DOJ

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#NW

S8262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32314040 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-102

called by subject while on his trip. Will then conduct

background investigation to determine identity of this

subscriber. Will consider interview concerning his relation-

ship with the subject.

MIAMI:

AT HALLANDALE. FLORIDA:

I. Will continue to give daily coverage to subject's

activities, associates and contacts and will set out all leads

by expedite communication.

2. Will continue efforts to develop ANNETTE LANSKY,

subject's daughter-in-law, as a source on subject's activities.

AT MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA:

Will continue to contact MIKE WASSELL, owner of the

Singapore Hotel, Miami Beach, in an effort to develop him as

a source of subject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following information, obtained from various

sources, is being set out on the Administrative pages as it

is not evidentiary and no apparent good purpose can be obtained

from dissemination of this information at the present time.

Investigation is being conducted to determine LARRY

PASKOW's association with TONY RUSSO and MEYER LANSKY.

The

following is background information on PASKOW as furnished by

PCI COURAD M. RIZER tO SA ROBERT F. FETZNER on 1/23/63:

PASKOW resides at 1776 Bay Drive, Miami Beach,

Florida; was born 4/9/11, at Newark, New Jersey; his father

died in 1961 and his mother is still living; he is married

to ROSE PASKOW, age 50; has a son, STUART PASKOW, age 23, and

& daughter, PATRICIA, who is married; formerly resided at 406

Harding Drive, Orange, New Jersey; was a member of the Kiwanis

• C=

* COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32314040 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-102

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is Mrs. KARL WEINHARDT, contacted by.

SA JAMES J. KEARNEY on 10/14/63.

MM T-2 is BOB SPRINGER, contacted by SA JAMES

J. KEARNEY on 8/21/63.

MM T-3 Is WALTER J. ALLISON,

contacted by sA

JAMES J. KEARNEY on 8/16/63.

MM T-4 is MM 789-C, contacted by SA ROBERT I.

FETZNER on 8/27/63.

MM I-5 Is MM 883-C-TE, contacted by SA ROBERT

F. FETZNER on 10/8/63.

MM T-6 1S MM 665-C, contacted by SA ROBERT E.

FETZNER on 8/28/63.

MM T-7 is SUSAN ESTIS, contacted by SA JAMES Jo

KEARNEY on 8/20/63.

MM T-8 is Father J. J. SRUBA contacted by a

Detroit Special Agent on 9/7/63.

MM T-9 is the Assistant Manager of the Northland

Hotel, Detroit, contacted by Detroit Special Agents

on 9/7/63.

MM I-10 is Mrs. VIC HAZARD, contacted by Albany

Special Agents on 9/22/63.

MM T-11 is BS 731-C, contacted by Boston Special

Agents on 10/5/63.

- COVER PAGE -

NW 68262 Docld:32314040 Page 3

---

