# docid-32239490

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

: HSCA

180-10060-10482

: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

Heleased under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:Nw/ 68261 Date:

-...

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of

privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261

Docld:32239490 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10482

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM

TITLE :

DATE: 02/22/78

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

MCHARGH, KENNETH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION: U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261

Docld:32239490 Page 2

---

## Page 3

....

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Kenneth

• So Melargh

Employee Social Security Number

12/31/73

Type of Action

JEK Act 5 (9) 12) (D)

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinasions

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

SE Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or . Professional.

2. 1 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.56

075ch

*-Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number._

If applicable, Level_

Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

Date__:

January 2

79

19

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS

STORES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits

Payroll __

.O0 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 68261

Docld:32239490 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORSA

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Kenneth S. McHarah

Employee Social Security Number

2122/78

Type of Action

JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

Employing Ofice or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

Staff Attorney

$27,000.00

* If emoloyee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. • Standing Committee: Staff—• Clerical or • Professional.

2. Di Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res._

95 Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level

Step_

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

2/22

Date_

78

19_

Iif appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stocks

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chaiman

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and Stare)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee •em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must.

be approved by the Committee on House Administration..

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits -

Payroll

00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 68261

Docld:32239490 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

this certification

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father

mother

son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

I I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Sense Sm

Signature of

Employe

2

122/18

Date

NV 68261

Docld:32239490 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel I.C.M.

DATE: February 14, 1978

RE: Mr. Kenneth S. McHargh

22

This memorandum is to advise you that effective

February 21, 1978, Mr. Kenneth

S. McHargh has accepted

the position of Staff Attorney with the Martin Luther

King Task Force. His effective starting salary will be

$27,000.00.

Your full cooperation will be greatly appreciated

in familiarizing Ken with staff procedures and welcoming

him aboard.

JEK Act 5 (g) (2) (D)

ICM: J

NW 68261

Docld:32239490 Page 6

---

