# docid-34517441

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-14-2022

Date : 08/21/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

_----------------- -

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD

NUMBER

: 194-10002-10146

RECORDS

SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PAGES 11-14

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

J. F. R.

TO : CH, INDUSTRIAL & PERS SCTY GROUP

TITLE

: [ RESTRICTED ]

DATE

: 12/23/58

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS

SCHEER, ROBERT

MARXIST DISCUSSION CLUB

LABOR YOUTH LEAGUE (LYL)

STUDENTS FOR FREEDOM IN THE SCHOOLS (SFFITS)

AMERICAN YOUTH FOR DEMOCRACY (AYD)

YOUNG PROGRESSIVES OF AMERICA (YPA)

2D INDORSEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B,

1C, 3

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 11/05/97

OPENING CRITERIA

: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE WITH RESTRICTIONS, PER LTR

DTD 5 NOV 97

NW 64954 Docld:34517441 Page 1

---

## Page 2

EC

AHFKB-SD-PSB H1016940 (2

Jun 58)

2d Ind (C)

SUBJECT:

Qualification of DD Form 98, Regular Registrant (SCHEER,

Robert, SSVC Nr. 502936186)

TUTAL DENIAL

HEAD-UARTERS, FIRST UNITED STATES ARMY, Governors Island, New. York 4,

New York

DEC 2 8 1958

THRU:

Commanding Officer, Central Records Facility, Fort Holabird,

Baltimoro 19 Maryland

TO:

Chief, Industrial and Personnel Security Group, Fort Holabird,

Baltimore 19, Maryland

1. (U) Forwarded in accordance with paragraph 26c (6), AR 604-10.

2. (U) This case has been reviewed in the light of

the security

criteria set forth in paragraph 13, AR 604-10, and, based

available information, it is determined that the induction of SUBJECT

into the military service is clearly consistent with the interests of

national security.

3.

U) The Commanding General, First United States Army, recommends

hat SUBJECT be declared acceptable for induction into the military

service.

4. COX The basis

for the determination and recommendation follows:

On 28 May 1958, SUBJECT qualified DD Forms 98

and 398 by

listing membership in the Marxist Discussion Club (MDC) in 1956, and

that while a student at Queens College, New York,

HE attended

or two meetings which may have been sponsored by the Labor Youth League

(LYL). (LYL is a designated organization.)

b. FBI files revealed that:

(1) SUBJECT's character reference, Fred Jerome, was reported

to have been in contact with a well-known CP leader in reference to forming

group,, and had been advised by the CP leader to join the CP.

Jerome

was observed in the company of a member of the Soviet Embassy clJerome's

father was convicted for violation of the Smith Act.

(2) A former employer of SUBJECT was reported to be a member

of the International Workers Order (IWO) and a subscriber to the Daily:

Worker (DW).

(IWO is a designated organization. DW is no longer published,

but was the daily newspaper of the CP.)

(3) Two associates of SUBJECT, Joseph Rosen and Peter Steinberg,

attended the Moscow Youth Festival in 1957.

Steinberg's father was a member

of the Young Communist League

UNCLASSIFIED.

(AS BRACKETED.)

5668 SED/ GaL

(JEK)

- C

11

AE FOMA PEACE CASADA

DOD

OC9

ECI

EVENT BY FELISA TASK FORCE

10119199268

NW 64954 Docld:34517441 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AHFKB-SD-PSB H1016940 (2 Jun 58)

2d Ind (C)

SUBJECT:

Qualification of DD Form 98, Regular Registrant (SCHEER,

Robert, SSVC Nr. 502936186)

(4) A listed character reference of SUBJECT was a member

of the Board of the New York State chapter of the Progressive Citizens

of America (PCA).

(Intelligence Files, Headquarters, First United States

Army, reflect that the Progressive Party was formed by members of the PCA

and that all officers of the Progressive Party were communist sympathizers.)

(5) A listed reference of SUBJECT was a member of the National

Lawyers Guild (NLG). NIG was cited as a communist-front organization.)

(6) An associate.of SUBJECT was reported to be an employee

of Camp Lakeland and his father was reported to be a member of the CP in

(Camp Lakeland was cited as a communist-sponsored camp.)

c. Investigation by this headquarters revealed that:

SUBJECT was reported to be a member of the Students for

creedom in the Schools (SFFITS), which followed the policies of the American

Youth for Democracy (AYD), the LYL the Young Progressives of America (YPA)

and the Marxist Discussion Club; HE generally concerned HIMSELF with civil

rights matters on the campus and advocated that students from the Soviet bloc

nations be permitted to attend City College of New York.

(AYD is a designated

organization.

Various chapters of the YPA have been cited as communist-front

organizations.

No derogatory information was disclosed reference the Marxist

Discussion Club.)

(2) SUBJECT's former employer, Joseph Keen, was

reported to

have been an active advocate of Communism for over twenty years and as having

registered for the American Labor Party (ALP) for a number of years. (ALP

had been dominated by members of the CP.)

SUBJECT's mother received the Daily Worker from 1941 through

1945, and HIS father and mother were members

of the International Workers

Order until 1951 and 1954, respectively. SUBJECT's father registered a

preference for the American Labor Party in 1946, 1947 and 1949.

schools disclose sourceo at sy increator readin Sued ent anal

di In an interview under oath on Il July 1958, SUBJECT.

stated

that:

(1) HE attended numerous political meetings on and off the

Queens College Campus which may have been sponsored by the LYL or members

of that organization, but HE was never a member of the LYL; HE attended social

gatherings where a left-wing crowd seemed to be in charge; HE attended a social

affair which

was sponsored by the LyL, but the affair was a party and not a

political meeting.

010

4

NW 64954 Docld:34517441 Page 3

---

## Page 4

AHFKB-SD-PSB H1016940 (2 Jun 58)

SUBJECT:

2d Ind (C)

Qualification of DD Form 98, Regular Registrant (SCHEER,

Robert, SSVC Nr. 502936186)

(2) HE is not presently attending any meetings of organiza-

tions on the Attorney General's list, but if one of the organizations on

the list had a meeting of interest to HIM, HE would attend it unless HE

was in the Army at that time; HE does not agree with the Attorney General's

list and will not accept the mere listing by the Attorney General as proof

that an organization is subversive or disloyal.

(3) HE attended social functions of the Jewish Peoples Fraternal

Order, but attended no meetings of this organization; HE attended Jewish

chorus and dance groups, but was not aware of their connection with the

Jewish Peoples Fraternal Order.

(4) HE was never a member of the IWO,

and believes there was a

connection between the IWO and Camp Lakeland where HE was employed; Camp

Lakeland had a union, but HE was not a member of this union and would not

have joined it were HE asked to join; HE had no knowledge of political meetings

at Lakeland.

(5) Communism in Russia is not communism in the Marxian sense;

He disapproves of almost every single political institution of Russia;

Communism seeks to achieve its aims by propaganda and physical force;

International Communism is some what primitive in its techniques of diplomacy

and is more adept in the area of physical force than in the area of diplomacy.

HE does not believe the CUSA, at the present time, is a

threat to the security of the United States; if HE knew a person to be a

member of the CP, HE would take no action; HE does not believe a member of the

CPUSA swears allegiance to a foreign power and HE is not now, nor has HE ever

been, a member of the CP.

(7)

as long as it is a democratic country; HE would defend the United States

against all enemies regardless of what He thought of the enemy; if the

majority of the people in the country decided the United States should go to

war, HE would fight.

SUBJECT readily answered all questions pertaining to HIMSELF,

but refused to answer any questions about HIS mother or HIS associates'

activities.

On 25 July 1958, SUBJECT signed the transcript of the interview

and added

a statement on the last page of the transcript that:

HE had no

doubts about HIS political fitness

to fulfill HIS military obligation; that

nothing HE had done could incriminate HIM; it is HIS desire to live in the

land of HIS birth, participating as fully as possible in its activities, and

to be denied admittance into the Armed Forces would hinder HIM in the future;

HE believes HE had cooperated and had taken pains to indicate anything of a

personal nature which might affect HIS military service.

011

NW 64954 Docld:34517441 Page 4

---

## Page 5

AHFKB-SD-PSB H1016940 (2 Jun 58) 2d Ind (C)

Qualification of DD Form 98, Regular Registrant (SCHEER,

Robert, SSVC Nr. 502936186)

SUBJECT voluntarily disclosed association with subversive

organizationaby indicating such on HIS security forms and during interview,

and subsequent investigation of SUBJECT confirmed this association.

However the investigation failed to disclose evidence which would support

allegations that SUBJECT is motivated by, or is in sympathy with,

ideologies.

(U) In accordance with paragraph 26e, AR 604-10, the following

data are submitted:

Name

- SCHEER, Robert

Grade

- Registrant

SSVC Nr

- 502936186

DOB

POB

Civilian Address

Flagging Action

- 4 April 1936

- Bronx, New York

- 653 Britton Street, Bronx 67, New York

- Initiated by this Headquarters UP

AR 600-31, on 7 August 1958

DD Forms 98 and 398

- Inclosures 1 and 2

6.

Attention is invited to Paragray

FOR THE COMMANDER:

MISU

4 Incl (relisted)

1.

DD Form 98 re SUBJ

dtd 28 May 58

•2.

DD Form 398 re SUBJ

dtd 28 May 58

/ 3.

20I re SUBJ dtc

5 Dec 58

14.

Dossier Nr H1016940

re SUBJ

Chief of Staff

NW 64954 Docld:34517441 Page 5

---

