Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10492 pl dareetreh ;

; ecords Collection Act of

RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS 992 (44 USC 2107 Note)
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : -asett: NW 68261 Date:

December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could

| reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

“NW 68261
| Docld:32239500 Page 1


Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10492

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

DATE : 09/27/77
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
NORRIS, ELIZABETH

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

5 COMMENTS :
Box 2.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

| NW 68261
| Docld:32239500 Page 2


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

US. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, )
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on. this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Elizabeth M. Norris

November

3, 1978

Employee Social Security Number

Type of Action

O Appointment
O Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

O Title Change

Assassinations

close of business.

© Termination (At close of bi
O Leave without pay (Begi

8s on effective date)

19 with effective date above and ending

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title I Gross Annual Salary*

* if employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Gi Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or [1 Professional.

3. 0 Joint Committee.

{If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________-__ If applicable, Level________ Step____

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Type or print name of Authorizing Officio

Chairman

ments and salary adjustments for employees under. the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

NW 68261
Docld:32239500 Page 3


PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter - } U.S: HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVES.) (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

F , i ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Elizabeth M. Norris Oc tober 1, 1978
L Employee Social Security Number : Type of Action
C Appointment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
: CO Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)
5 poeaeaiaeriona © Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
close of business... eakag ~~ )

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

a Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$16,100.00

* lf employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annval salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.
2. El Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. ee of sth Congress.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.

relatives. _
Cetober 10 .

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

‘Uf eppropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chai

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee-on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint-Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:._*:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID oe
Office Code... Benefits__-______.--__________
Monthly Annuity $____._._-00 as of. Payroll.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

|| NW 68261 ~ : =

'| Docld:32239500 Page 4



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

‘, i ‘on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Elizabeth 8. Brow Decenber 1, 1977
Employee Social Security Number L Type of Action
CO Appointment
KE) Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee C Title Change
CO Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assassinations O Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business___________________------------ )
Specily Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title-Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
Staff Assistant $15,000

* If emoloyee-is a ci

service annuitant:{includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
plus the salary rece :

d from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O) Clerical or 0) Professional.
2.

465 8
Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. res. 59 of 38

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______.. Step______..

| certify that this authorization is ‘not in violation -of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment’ of
relatives. : : =<

Dacenber 7

Date____

ments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee ém-
~ . ployees, except those. of the Committee on-Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.__

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.

(Revised: August ? 107

NW 68261 ~
Docld:32239500 Page 5

4
j

ey



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: © ~~ (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

i 7 on this form must be. initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) : Effective Date
Elizabeth M. Brown ; September 27, 1977
Employee Social Security Number . Type of Action

® Appointment

Employing Office or Committee 1 Selary Adjustment

( Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(IF type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary
Staff Assistant $13,000

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. FJ Standing Committee: Staff—[] Clerical or [J] Professional.

2. { Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465___ of 95th Congress, F

3. [ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.) ens

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______.. Step.

|! certify that this authorization. is not in violation of 5.-U.$.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment. of
relatives. sora a

i All-appointments and salary adjustments for employees -under the House Classification Act and’ for’ Committee em-
ployees,.except those of the:Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on. the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must

| “be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

12. on House Administration: 4

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

+
| NW 68261
|| Docld:32239500 Page 6



|
i
|

To:
From:
Date:

Re:

staff
$13,0)

Docld:32239500 Page 7

G. Robert Blak

Tom How.

September 27, 1977

Hiring of Staff Assistant

I recommend that we hire Elizabeth Brown as the second
assistant in the Budget Office at an annual salary of
100.00 starting September 27, 1977.



|
i

Elizabeth M. Brown

October 1974 - Present

Sept. 1973 - Dec. 1973

Feb. 1973 - June 1973

1972 - 1974

1970 - 1972

Born:

Appearance:

Hobbies:

NW 68261
Docld:32239500 Page 8

3134 Q. Street, N. W.

Washington, D. C. 20007

Telephone: h - 333-2105
Oo - 225-6565

EXPERIENCE

Staff of U. S. Representative Jack Brooks,
Washington, D. C. Handle all aspects of

case work in the areas of military, Social
Security and veterans affairs. Correspond
with constituents in regards to general and
specific inquiries, which often necessitates
contact with various government agencies

and Congressional Committees in order to
obtain needed information. Correspond with
constituents concerning legislative inquiries.
Assist in reviewing and assigning all out-
going mail. Responsible for various facets
of the procedure involved with the nomination
of service academy applicants. Performed
duties of receptionist and appointment
secretary on a full time basis, and presently
perform these duties as needed. Temporarily
assumed duties and responsibilities of

office manager.

Learning Foundations, Inc., Wilmington,
N. C. Part-time math tutor for grades one
through twelve.

Wonder Shop, Wilmington, N. C. Part-time
sales clerk.

EDUCATION
University of North Carolina
Wilmington, N. C. 28401

Degree: Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics

Peace College
Raleigh, N. C.

BIOGRAPHICAL DATA
March 12, 1952, Wilmington, N. C.

Height: 5'5" Weight: 114.1bs
Eealth: Excellent

Water sports, tennis, needle point, and
reading.


NW 68261

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

e that, among other things, the Co
ication inclu the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. ‘This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law tepbrother
sister mother-in-law sister
uncle son-in-law hal f-brot!

aunt daughter-in-law half-sist

first cousin

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date
nich will then b a part of your periianent personnel
t hi wust notify the Committee's B

this form,
file. If t

tas I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress
(Please specify.)

abth ¥ Ye PRI I= 22-27

Signatur tf Enployee Date

Docld:32239500 Page 9

wets

