# docid-32327845

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90066-10086

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3960-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/17/1962

PAGES: 40

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/15/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#Nu/ 68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32327845 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

3. If employed by either of the above, what are

his duties

and income?

4. What is his legal residence?

5. What is his connection with the Ilttle Copa

Club, Greerwood Lake, New York?

6. Does he have any Interest in the El Borracho

Club, 159 East 53rd Street, NYC?

7. What kind of a car is he now driving and does

he own an automobile?

8.

How long does he plan to stay in Miami. Beach

and where can/be reached when he leaves?

9. Is he currently receiving income duor his

previous interesi in Cuba, and li so, how does ne receive

it in view of the current

international situation?

On 4/2/62, NY 3368-C-TE advised SA WARREN J.

DONOVAN, that prior to leaving Miami, Fla., after a recent

visit, he had occasion to visit with

AL BERLIN, who was

connected with the Teamsters Local and operates the South

Florida Labor Journal.

NY 3368-C-TE stated that while talking with

BERLIN, the latter told him that SALVATORE GRANELLO alSO

known as Sally Burns, made a great deal of money running

guns to Cuba and is a very wealthy individual in his own

right. BURNS is allegedly the sole owner of the Marlboro

House at 50th Street and Collins Avenue, Miami Beach,

Fla. He stated that SALLY BURNS was partners with JOE

RIVERS and (FNU) ROTHMAN in transporting guns to Havana,

Cuba, -during the time of BATISTA.

Candy Stiot, a "Twist Joint" In Miami Beach.

stated that BERLIN told him that ROTIMAN was convicted of

tot him that son

ROTHMAN's son owns the

The informant

gun running, but that SALLY BURNS and JOE RIVERS went free

due to an alleged pay-off of $20,000 to the Federal Agency

which investigated this matter.

There, apparently was,

according to BERLIN, a suppression of evidence.

-

COVER PAGE

92-3960-28

NW 68262 Docld:32327845 Page 2

---

## Page 3

C

JEK Law 11(a)

NY 92-1108

on 4/3/62,

Revenue Service, US

Internal

GLANZER further advised

on 4/16/62, the records of the Bureau of Vital

Statisties, Kings County, Brooklyn, Ni, as made available

to IC WAYNE E.

RIVENBURG, failed to reflect any record

identifiable with JOSEPHINE DE VITO, the subject's mother.

On 4/18/62, Mr. SIDNEY A. DAVIS, Assistant

Chief, Records Administration and Information Section,

INS, 20 West Broadway, NYC, advised SA WILLIAM F. MARTIN

the records of that agency

failed to reflect any information

identifiable with MICHAEL GRANELLO, deceased father of

the subject.

on 4/17 and 4/18/62, attempts were made to con-

tact PCI ABE GOLDSTEIN, with negative results.

on 4/18/62, an attempt was made to contact ROBERT

* RYERSON, with negative results.

COVER PAGE

REVIEWED BY BUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

6/2/48 fat

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

92-3960-28

NW 68262 Docld:32327845 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS

NY T.-1

SA SAMUEL H. GLANZER,

Internal Revenue Service,

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

NY I-2

PCI SAM CURATOLA

NY T-3

NY 204-0

NY T-4

NY 1894-PC

MMT -1

PCI

LEADS

MIAMI

SA FREDERICK N. KUHLMAN

SAS PAUL C. DURKIN

and CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA WARREN J. DONOVAN

SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING

JEK Act 5 (9) (2) (D)

1. Will endeavor to afford surveillance coverage

of the subject during his daily absences from his residence

at Miami Beach, Florida, In an attempt to determine his

It may be noted

that it has been repeatedly reported that the subject maintains

interest in a cooperative apartment venture in the Miami area.

A review of the NO files reflects that on 9/14/59, SA ROBERT

F. FETZNER, observed the building at 5333 Collins Avenue,

Miami, Florida, which once housed the Rio Clüb, had been

torn down and in its place the Hamilton House Cooperative

Apartments were being constructed.

GRANELLO had been

reported to have an interest in the Rio Club.

-

K

COVER PAGE

923960-18

NW 68262 Docld:32327845 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-1108

4.

Will review the list set forth in the administrative

pages of instant report, relative to the Infornation furnished

by NY 3597-0*, to determine if any information appears to

concern any individuals within the Newark territory.

If so,

identity, conduct credit and criminai cheeks, ana.consider

interview unless information is available which would preclude

such action.

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1. Will consider the interylew of Me. T. MUSCALLI,

care of B and M Express, Inc., 38-12 30th Street, Long Island

City, Ny.

In the pepermit wile do no e

Will attempt to verify the subject's interest

Lounge, Miami Beach, Florida.

Will review the records of the NYCPD relative

to the subject's alleged rape of a teenage girl in the NYC

area.

Will contact PCI ABE: GOLDSTEIN, 79 Avenue A,

subjeft, any Information he may possess relative to the

Will display the pictures furnished by NY 3597-0*

to NY 204-0 to determine if he is able to identify any of

these individuals.

At Greenwood Lake, New York

I. Will consider Interview of COSMO POLIZZI,

Monroe, NY, for any Information he may possess

relative

to the subject.

COVER PAGE

52-3860-281

NW 68262 Docld:32327845 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 92-1108

BURNS was said

to be banished from the neighborhood and

is believed to be living in exile in Fonzoa.

An Individual,

believed by Ny T-2 to be a brocher-in-law of

BURNS, and

whose name is

thought to be SOLIY MARTIN

has also

an shed from the area for selling narcotios.

According

to NY I-?, MARIIN is supposed to have incurred the deep

displeasure ot the underworld powers in the area.

on April 30g 1952, Datective TIM TAIYY, 5th

squau, New York City Folice

Departments advised he recalls

conducting an investigation concerning

the alleged rape of

a young girl by the subject, sometime in 1959.

The

incident was supposed to have taken place at the subject's

sunmer residence at Greenwood Lake, New fork, where the

victim was visiting the subject's daughter.

TALTY Identified the girl as FLORA ANN BILETTO,

52 west Oalidale Street Incidents

Brentwood Long Island, New York,

but at the time of the

she resided at 274 Mott

Stweet, New York City. TALTY stated he recalls interviewing

the girl, her mother, and her aunt.

The father was an

elevatos operator on 58th Street, New Yoric CIty.

Detective TAITY stated

he could not recall any

additional details regarding the Incident, but believes

that It was his conclusion that the allegation did not

warrant any further investigation.

He stated the complete

results of the investigation are on file with the Flich

Squad, New York City Police Department.

Detective: TALTY added that the subject 1s still

an accepted member of the criminal element on the Lower

East Side of NeW lock City, although he very infrequently

visits the neighborhood.

- 6

92-3968-28

NW 68262 Docld:32327845 Page 6

---

