|

* ennedy Assassination

ecords Collection Act of

‘992 (44 USC 2107 Note}.
eft NW 68261 Date:

Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10350
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

A December 8, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors
including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the
absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United
States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could
reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of
privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 68261
Docld:32243316 Page 1


o ° Date: 08/20/93
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
| RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10350

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO

HSCA

TITLE :

DATE

07/11/77
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
FLANNAGAN, MARK T.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

Box #:1.

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 68261
Docld:32243316 Page 2



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter 4) U.S. HOUSE“OF AEPRESENTATI (Any erasures; corrections, or changes

=“ on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
Mark T. Flanagan January 1, 1979
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

Appointment
RG Salary Adjustment

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Title Change
1 Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Assasginationa - O Leave without pay (Beginning with efféctive date above and ending

close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

316,100.00

S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (include:
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)
1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 01 Professional.

0 Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority —H. Res. 955 _of 258’ congress,
3. 0 Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number, If applicable, Level

| certify that this outhorizotion is not in violation of 5 USC. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date January 2

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis STORES

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees-under the House Classification Act and for Cornmittee ern-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on thé Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:.

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code.

W 68261 an a
locid:32243316 Page 3 se :

rae



PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM “ i

(Please Use Typewriter... _/° U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE (Any erasures, corrections, or changes

. . i st be initial ut
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 seherilor offic ye niated by the

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date
anagan October 1, 1978
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action
& Salary Adjustment
Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change

C Termination (At close of business on effective date)

0 Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
4asassinations

close of business___ -)

(If. type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*

$16,600.00

nitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
1e employing office.

* If emoloyee is 0 civil service
plus the salary received from

ates a

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. O Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0) Professional.
2. Gf Special (Investigative staff. of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95¢) congress.

3. O Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an’Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______- Step_______.

| certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the: employment of
relatives. ° a

‘(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary-adjustments for employees under. the House Classification Act and for Committee. em-
ployees,. except those of the Committee on. Appropriations, the Committee. on the Budget,,and the Joint Committees,-must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

W 68261 - =o _ a
locid:32243316 Page 4 i ce H



| PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please. Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF. REPRESENTATIVES: - (Any erasures, corrections, or. changes

| 7 nS;

: 7 or Ballpoint Pen} ° Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be Jaltiated by: the
1
|

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

: Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date \
| - |
| T. Mark Flanagan December 1, 1977

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action a

i Appointment

Salary Adjustment

se hanienuasendilasas ia

~ Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee O Title Change
Ci Termination (At close of business on effective date)
A Assassinatiens © Leave without pay (Beginning-with effective date above and ending

close of business_

(if type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.) setae

Position Title Gross Annual Salary*
Researcher $175,000

ivil service annuitant (includes.U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual solary shown should include the annuity received by. the employee-
plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff—O Clerical or 0 Professional. .

congress.
| 3. OF Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level_______. Step______.

| certify: that this :authorization. is not in violation of 5. -U.S.C.. 3110(b), prohibiting the’ employment of
relatives. _ 7

Becenker 7

Date...

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House. Classification Act and: for. Committee em-
ployees, except. those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint. Committees, must. «
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Choirman, Com

Office of Finance use only: ID
Office Code.

W 68261 > E f
ocid:32243316 Page 5 i 5



|

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM. = —

(CUS. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515 ;

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

To the Clerk of:the House of Representatives:

| hereby authorize the following payroll action:

‘er,

(Any erasures, corrections,-or changes
“ ~on-this-form-must-be~ initialed: by the
authorizing official.)

‘Toe Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) ~~.

Effective Date

D, Sank Flanagan : TAYSTF
f L :
Employee Social Security Number Type of Action , S
4] Appointment :
Employing Office or Committee O Salary Adjustment - eee a
Z . x ° | Termination (At-close of businéss on effective date)
: Assassinations 7 D

(IF. type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Researcher

y

$12,000> "_ - :

- -(If Comniittee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1] Standing Committee: Staft—

Clerical or [] Professional:

© Special of Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. “$5

3. [J Joint Committee.

(if Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below)

Position Number. -__.If applicable, Level

relatives.

Date__

,. All appointments. arid salary.adjustments for-employees :under the House .Clas:

Stepz_s_. ,

| certify that this authorizatién is not in viglation of 5 U.S.C’ 3110(b), prohibiting the employment ‘of

ication Act and for Committee em-

ployees, except those-of the Committee on Appropriationsy the “Committee on the Budget, and the Joint: Committees,"must

be approved by the Committee on House. Administrations
o
APPROVED:.,

Office ‘of Finance use only:
Office Code:

re

_
|| Nw 68261 [ao

Docld:32243316 Page 6

pe



MEMORANDUM

| TO: ALL STAFF |
RE: Payroll Certification t
The Regula and Accoun Procedures for Allowances and
F nd o : of

jre that, among other things, the Commi e's
certification include the relationship, if any, of
each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification
is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the
certification:

nephew brother-in-law

niece sister-in-law

husband stepfather

wife stepmother

father-in-law stepbrother t

mother-in-law stepsister \
| son-in-law half-brother 1 \
| aunt daughter-in-law half-sister | \
| first cousin |

Piease complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date ee

this form, which ¥,
file if
0

wan not related to any current (95th Congr

£7 1 am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. |
(Please specify. )

a part of your permanent personnel
must notify the Committee's Budget

ss) Member of Congress.

= : ey

| NW 68261 ee
'| Docld:32243316 Page 7 : o



MEMORANDUM
JULY 7, 1977

TO: Tom Howarth

\

FROM: Donovan Ga: | \
|
t RE: New Research Employees |
|

Please be advised that on Monday, July 11, 1977,
four researchers will be reporting to duty.
The four new employees for the Research/Document
Unit are: Thomas Mark Flanagan, Jr.; Edwin Juan
Lopez; Dan L. Hardway, and Leslie Wizelman.

| All four will be joining our staff as Researchers,
and are to be compensated at the rate of $12,000
per annum.

The above has been authorized per the instructions.
of Bob Blakey.

—

Thank you.

W 68261 FO
locld:32243316 Page 8 f a ;

