# docid-32286528

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :-

124-10195-10304

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-366, 1ST NR 366

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NEWSOM, MILTON L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/14/1962

PAGES:

75

SUBJECTS :

THP, GAMBLING ACT, PROSTITUTION, NARCOTICS,

BURGLARY AND ROBBERY, BOOTLEGGING, JEWEL

THEFTS, CORRUPTION, RACKETEERING, HANGOUTS,

CITIZENS GROUPS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES i-ii, INDEX PAGES a-j, INC MEMO

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case# N'wy

58252 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32286528 Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

DL 94-55

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and T symbols were utilized in this report only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed and where the sources have so requested that their

identity be concealed.

T SYMBOL

NUMBER

DL LT-1

DL T-2

DL T-3

DL

T-4

DL T-5

DL T-6

DI,

T-7.

DL

"T-8

DL

T- 9

DLi

T-10

DL

T-11

DL

T-12

DL. T-13

DL

T-14

DL

T-15

T-16

DL

T-17

DL

T-18

DL

T-19

DL T-20

DL T-21

DL T-22

DL T-23

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

CONTACTED BY

DL-144-C*

PCI GEORGE FUQUA

DL- 95-C

DL-170-C

KEN SLANE, IRS, Dallas

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

SA ROBERT

M. BARRETT

SA ROBERT

'M.

BARRETT

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

ERWIN HARDWICKE, Golf Pro.,

Tentson Golf Course, Dallas,

who desires his identity be

kept confidential.

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

PCI ANDY BRYAN

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

DI 118-C

SA

WILLIAM R. JENKINS

PCI BOBBY RAY WINKELS

SA BEN S. HARRISON, JR.

DL-115-C

SAM C. COTTON

PCI 0. C. BLAIR

SA MILTON L. NEWSOM

DL-84-C

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

PCI BETTY FLANAGAN

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS

PCI VELMA YVONNE GRAHAM

BEN S. HARRISON, JR.

DL-79-C

SA

SAM C. COTTON

PCI ALMA LEMAY

SA

SAM C. COTTON

DI-128-C

SA

SAM' C. COTTON

PCI ERNEST PERRY

SA

ALAN L. MANNING

DL-89-C

SA SAM C. COTTON

DL-34-C

SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT

DI-68-C

SA BEN S. HARRISON, JR.

LT. JACK REVILL, Dallas PD

who has requested his identity

be kept confidential

as far as

this information is concerned.

SA: ROBERT M. BARRETT

J. STEWART RANDOLPH MARSHALL,

Dallas, Texas, who requested

his identity be kept confi-

dential

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

-D-*

COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32286528 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL: 94-55

He said that he considered JUNIOR BROWN to be a pimp

who has been working in the Lubbock area recently, and JIMMY

SHOBERT runs with BROWN.

AT TEXARKANA, TEXAS:

DL T-15 and

DL T-16 have been contacted on a regular

basis concerning prostitution. Du T-15 advised that BEULAN

PATE, Highway 59)

south of Texarkana Texas, now

Rule Motel.

She

runs the Golden

keeps

at least one girl who can fill dates

of prostitution.

DI I-15 also advised that PEGGY/MARTINO maintains

a house of prostitution in Bowie Countyrtexas, at the inter-

section of U.'S. Highway 67 and an overpass known as the Texas

and Pacific Dump Road.

In addition to the dwelling that

MARTINO maintains, there are also two house trailers in which

dates of prostitution are filled. The girls operating there,

usually three or four in number, are for the most part from

Dallas, Texas.

Texcerkiena.

Texa

This information has been confirmed by DL T-17, who"

is closely associated with MARTINO, and, in fact, finances her

operation. DL T-16 has advised that there is usually one or

two prostitutes available at the

Holman Hote third-class

hotel usually patronized by railroad employees and the working

class of people.

She states that prostitutes make arrangements

for a room through the Negro bellhops employed by the hotel.

AT WICHITA FALLS TEXAS SI

Detective HOWARD SHUBERT, Wichita Falls Police

Department advised he had learned there were some prostitutes

That a da 200, eat roe the state he do he odo

was responsible for the prostitutes being there.

25

NW 68262 Docld:32286528 Page 3

---

