JFK Assassination System. Date: 10/1/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10071-10459

RECORD SERIES: | NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 010088

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FRO! MORIARTY, JOHN
TO: FENTON, CLIFFORD

TITLE:

DATE: 07/20/1978
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS :
BERTUCCI, MARY C.
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Box 186.

992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw
0

vol it
NW 68261 Docld:32244901 Page 1


MEMORANDUM

TO: clifford Fenton
Chief Investigator-JFK

FROM: John Moriarty
Staff Investigator-JFK

DATE: July 20, 1978 010088

RE: Mary Ceciliadell Bertucci

This lady placed a-call to our Committee at 2:30 p.m.
on July 18, 1978, seeking Mr. Bill Brown, and spoke to me
when advised the former would no longer be available. ’

She advised she and her husband had been interviewed
on past occasions by Brown and it was imperative these
reports be modified regarding "the reward." Previously she
had indicated she wasn't concerned with the one hundred
thousand dollars, but she's since reconsidered and has decided
to accept this recompense.

I checked the files and reviewed 5117 (2/7/78), 7196
(4/14/78), and 7255 (4/18/78) submitted by Bill Brown and found

she reiterated the essential story. Today's notes added the
following data:

1. Maiden name Tinner; DOB, 9/28/43; Ss[srK acts 2D) |

2. John Fitzgerald Kennedy was her first cousin. (It
was due to circumstances that they never met.)

3. Judge Garrison is her attorney of record.

4. She's currently confined to "Parker 3 West" of
De Paul Hospital in New Orleans, with 11 of the
15 days" confinement to go.

None of these four items verified at this time.

am

NW 68261 Docid:32244901 Page 2
