JFK Assassination System Date: 5/20/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

tthe Jahn F. Ker
fissassination Records Collection

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10280-10123

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 92-6054-26

7 Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BOGGAN, FURMAN G.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

i DATE: 05/01/1962
PAGES: 44

SUBJECTS :
LCN, ASSOC, B/F INT, CM, RACKET ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1 3
NW 68486 Docld:32302186 Page 1


NO 92-365/lam

Will endeavor to establish the ‘identity of the.
individual or individuals in the New Orleans area who Hay,
act as local representatives to the "Commission". 7

INFORMANTS
Location of original
information in New
Informant Identity Orleans files
T-1 Former PCI BEN J, SHEAR 137-17-24
T-2 Former CI, ALBERT L, PILSBURY 137-952-9
T-3 Former CI, ALBERT L, PILSBURY 92-47-5, page 3
T-4 PCI RAYMOND L, ROLLING 92-47-5, page 5
T-5 SA NAURBON L, PERRY, IRS, 92-47-5, page 5
New Orleans
T-6 NO 1178-C 137-1582-26
T-7 NO 1190-¢ 137-1569-29
T-8 NO 1017-C 137-155-190
T-9 Mr. CLARENCE JOHNSON 92-36-657 page. 56
US I&NS, New Orleans
T-10 PCI RAYMOND L, ROLLING 137-1060-70
T-11 PCI HOWARD D, BAUTSCH 137-1761-9
B-12 PCI RAYMOND L, ROLLING 137 -1060-81
T-13 PCI RAYMOND lL, ROLLING 137-1060-90
ans fa ta ae Rone
“yi : REVIEWED SY BayJFK TASK FORCE
REVIEWED BY | ASK FORGE ad ge :
ON ih We [Dab fay 2 ON
Pel 5 COVER PAGE Io aa levee
RELEAS: 2 we LEASE IN PART
C] TOTAL CENA,
TOTAL 9
P-\a\rB

NW 68486 Docld:32302186

Page 2


+

NO 92-365/lam

Informant

T-14
F-15
T-16
T-17
T-18 ‘
T-19

- T-20

T-21

T-22
T-23
T-24
7-25

Location of original
information in New

Identity Orleans files

PCI RAYMOND L. ROLLING
NO 1174-C
NO 1178-C
NO 1017-C
NO 1178-C
NO 1131-C
NO 1174-C

SA JOHN E, MONTGOMERY,
IRS, Gulfport, Mississippi

NO. 1190-C
NO 1178-C
NO 1190-C

Highly confidential source’
known only to SA's EDWARD M.
DAVIS, GEORGE R, MC NEIL, JR.,
STUART E, SCHEER and L, M,
SHEARER, JR.»

Review of records of Metairie
Savings Bank and Trust Company,
Metairie, Louisiana, May and
June, 1958

c
COVER PAGE

137-1060-88
137 -1514-28
137 -1582-34
137-155-217
137 -1582-38
137-1012-121
137-1514-28
92-346-5

137-1569-41
137-1582-37
137-1569-42
92-297-16, page 3

92-47-69,
pages 22, 23 &
26

NW 68486 Docld:32302186 Page 3


NO 92-365/lam

“

On January 7, 1958, NO T-3 advised that JOSEPH
ALBER' RETTO has been in the gambling bus. all his
nupuan{fonzrt9 aid J ‘s brother, CYRI ETTO is LA,
likewise a gambler\ \T vised JOSEP! 0 is manager
of the Nola Printing Company. T-3 believed that PORETTO
actually has some financial interest in Nola, but it is
general knowledge in gambling cirétes that the company itself
is owned by CARLOS MARCELLO. At the time of the interview
with T-3, the informant said that the wire service provided
by Nola costs $60.00 a week for individual books and $108.00
a week for bookmakers who operated business places.

\

The informant stated that in the middle 30's,
PORETTO lived in Houston, Texas where he operated as a
gambler, He got in trouble with the Texas Rangers and was
ordered out of the state. PORETTO returned to New Orleans
and began associating with JOHN. J, FOGERTY, who then operated a
horse race wire service in New Orleans. Informant said
MARCELLO moved in on FOGERTY and took over the wire service,
whereupon PORETTO aSSociated himself with MARCELLO.

weer

On December 17, 1957, NO T-4 advised that it is the
general opinion among bookmakers in Jefferson Parish that {
Nola is controlled by CARLOS MARCELLO and that the operations |
are managed by JOSEPH ALBERT PORETTO and MARCELLO's youngest |
brother, JOSEPH MARCELLO, JR.

we iia

—_ oo

QeAWA SS

NW 68486 Docld:32302186 Page 4


NO 92-365/lam

/seK Law 11(al

In August, 1946, JOHN J. FOGERTY, who identified
himself as the owner and the operator of the Daily Sports
News, advised that his company was the New Orleans representa-
tive of Continental Press. FOGERTY said he had been operating
a horse race news service in New Orleans for the past. 26
years. FOGERTY said that a new horse race wire service had
just opened up in the New Orleans area, He identified it
as the Southern News and Publishing Company and said it
was the local representative. of the Trans-American Pubsishing
News Service Company, Inc. He identified the operators of
the Southern News and Publishing Company as JOSEPH ALBERT
PORETTO and one SYLVESTRO CAROLLO, whom he described as a
local Italian.alien and an ex-convict who had been the subject
of a deportation case since 1937. FOGERTY was of the
opinion that PORETTO and CAROLLO were receiving the financial
backing of CARLOS. MARCELLO.

With regard to the Mississippi Gulf Coast,. NO T-6
while acknowledging that gambling and the sale of illegal
liquor flourished, advised on September. 20, 1962 that
this activity is carried on by local individuals of Anglo-
Saxon descent with no organization and no leadership.

NO T-7 on September 19, 1961, confirmed the opinion expressed
by NO T-6 as did NO T-8, who was contacted on September 2 and
19, 1961. : :

-8-

G2 -b00¥-26
SRA VAS?

NW 68486 Docld:32302186 Page 5


NO 92-365/eah

During the course of ‘the interviews with
ANDERSON and CONWAY, no gambling paraphernalia was observed.

NO T-19, Gulfport, Ml sippi, advised on
August 21, 1961, that Dr. FELIX H UNN, resident of 38th
M\sS; Avenue in Gulfport, is currently of the Gulfport

chapter of the iona sociation for the Advancem

Colored People (NAACP). He advised Dr. DUNN owns considerable
property on fe Mississippi Gulf Coast, is a physician and
surgeon, and reportedly has an interest in a number of music
vending wachines in a company wherein Harrison County Sheriff
CURTI EDEAUX is a silent partner.

NO T-19 advised it is common knowledge among

the Negroes in the Gulfport area that Dr. DUNN and Sheriff
DEDEAUX made some kind of "deal" before DEDEAUX's election

to office, whereby DUNN guaranteed DEDEAUX the bulk of the
Negro vote in the election, in return for which DEDEAUX agreed
to let DUNN sell illegal whiskey through Negro front elements,
and to have the "okay" sign for the music vending license in
the area. :

NO T-20, Gulfport, Mississippi, advised on
February 5, 1962, that on Saturday night, February 3, 1962,
Dr. FELIX H, DUNN was engaged in a crap game at the Two-Pal
Club, a Negro night club on old Highway 49 North, Gulfport,
with several other men, two of whom were local white gamblers
and hoodlums, GEORGE ANDERSON, owner of the Hi-Hat Club, and
"COONEY" BURT, NO T-4 advised Dr. DUNN is alleged to be
gambling heavily recently, mostly in crap and "skin" games,

30 . 72. 6057-26
SW NF

u

NW 68486 Docld:32302186 Page 6 i


NO 92-365/eah

7 NO T-22, Gulfport, Mississippi, advised SA
WILLIAM F, DUKES, on February 8, 1962, that within the
past week or ten days an unknown white male identifying
himself as. JACK GANAS, reportedly a gambler and night club
operator from Montgomery, Alabama, had taken over operation
of The Ace of Clubs, night club on West Beach, Biloxi,
Mississippi, formerly operated by ASA GARRIGA, JR., also
known aS "Little Asa." Informant advised there is a
plackjack table in the Ace of Clubs, but he did not know
how long it had been there and he was not aware .whether
gambling was presently going on in the club.

NO T-23, Gulfport, Mississippi, advised on
February 8, 1962, that he was not aware of who is presently
operating the Ace of Clubs on West Beach at Biloxi, Mis-
sissippi, although she knew that ASA GARRIGA, JR.'s ex-wife
was reported to be giving the place up.

NO T-24 advised on February 14, 1962, that
since previously contacted on February 8, 1962, he has
learned that JACK GANAS had been instructed by Harrison
County Sheriff. CURTIS O, DEDEAUX to get out of Harrison
County. Informant stated he pelieves that "Little Asa"
GARRIGA had complained to DEDEAUX about the possible
competition from GANAS, after which DEDEAUX took. the
action against GANAS. Informant was not aware whether
GANAS had gone or not.

On February 8, 1962, a 1960 Cadillac, two
door, pink in color, displaying 1962 Alabama license 3-44022,

2 . G2-COSY - 2g
SW -\o\ 5?

NW 68486 Docld:32302186 Page 7

