JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10201-10274
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2781-553
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/24/1962
7 “PAGES: 22
SUBJECTS :
LST, GAMBLING, ACT, ASSOC, B/F INT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)-
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: _.02/16/1999

COMMENTS :

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

The John F. Kennedy
fissassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note), Caset:Nw
-20

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 1



|
\
}

‘Will note that from:investigation .thus.-far..conducted:
by. the Miami Office relative :to: Cafe D!Artist,.732 Biscayne
Boulevard, ‘Miami, that operators. of. such establishment:
were possibly former..contacts ‘of the subject in Havana.

‘They: undoubtedly have contact with .JUDITH: SALVAT and information

furnished by NY ~3368-C-TE on. 4/2/62 to SA. WARREN J. DONOVAN:

concerning subject owning Club Artist may. possibly be ‘true.

Miami-.will,. therefore, consider. timely. interview.
of. officersof such Cafe.D'Artist in an effort to trace any.
of subject's: funds. :

The Miami Office will. conduct. appropriate investigation
relative to information furnished by NY 3368=C-TE on 4/2/62: ~
that subject. source believed TRAFFICANTE. operates Local.:136
and uses one .(FNU) GONZALES, a high class individual, to
operate ‘this. local, noting Miami,’ in weekly airtel summary.
dated 5/18/62, ascertained it is identical with Local 133 -

‘Waiters, Waitresses and Bartenders: Union; AF of L; 821.

N.E. 2nd-Avenue;‘Miami, and. that Mr. GONZALES was President.

AT MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA

Will report ‘appropriate investigation of:. 9570
Harding Avenue, Surfside,*noting that.CS TP. 51-C on..5/17/62
indicated that .Miss.GEORGETTE of such address apparently -
furnis héd a receipt 3/16/62 of $30 from Mrs. J. BRUNO; ‘
further noting that: the alias has been’ used by the subject.
JAHES . BRUNO ‘when ‘previously :known.:to have been ‘residing in
Miami, Beach. ae See eee

NEW YORK DIVISION. .

AT..NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

“Will: note: that LOUIS. P, BRADY: is. no longer residing:
in. Tampa, Florida... Will consider timely interview of WILLIE

“PEP: through his: place :of .business,. the MeLody: Lanes ‘endeavoring

to. ascertain all :facts known to him rélative to subject, “his i:
activities’ and: associates at Tampa,’ Miami and New York. By

c
COVER - PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 2


TP 9241

TAMPA: DIVISION
‘AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Wild maintain contact with informants and
confidential. ‘sources :to report activities :of the subject. .

“WALL continue: to: sexplore: employment: of -highly..:
confidential Bureau” techniques. on ‘subject's close
associates.

ADMINISTRATI VE:

aus Bureau ‘letter to Tampa: dated: 4/26/62 pointed out
®hat veven ‘though: the subject maintained an apartment..and
spends.:a great. deal of time at Miami, ‘Florida, ‘office: of
origin: should’ not be changed: in this ‘investigation at. this
time. The Bureau noted it was: felt that the subject continues
ito exercise substantial ‘control of hoodlum ‘ ‘activites cin “the
Tampa -area:and:is, his original base':of operati:
Bureau ‘noted ‘Tampa. should continue its -efforts. to penetrate —
the TRAFFICANTE operations and that every ‘effort should be-
made -to establish: “highly confidential sources relative: to
‘subject's. operations..so .as.to be in:a position to accurately ~
report: all his. present operations and’ interests.

The Bureau .accepted:reports should be submitted
at: intervals. no longer .than:30:.days and: that Miami and Tampa
‘should submit:-weekly airtel.summaries. rather than daily.”
teletypes:.and rather than 15-day. reports. - The Bureau. further.
noted:‘that .these instructions: should. in no way be: construed”
asa lessening. of investigative endeavors. .

On 4/16/62, MIKE-LISMAN, Corporal,..New York State

Troopers, Liberty, New York,. confidentially. advised SA

JOHN. A.. AHERN that JERRY GREITZER, presently. incarcerated at
‘Sing Sing Prison, Ossining, New York, had information on

SANTO: TRAFFICANTE and:had given a statement. to the New York.
State’ Police concerning him. LISMAN requested the. New York -  .
‘State.Police not be identified as.the original source of this ~
~information: as: it would point ‘to. him, and under-his regulations,
he is required: to: forward his information up the chain of. ~~
command, and .the-decision.of whether or not to disseminate’
is‘made.at\.the top.

e/.
COVER. PAGE

=a

{
t
j NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 3



cor Gc a?)

TP 92-1

The New York Office advised JERRY GREITZER was a
-former.symbol informant of. the New York Office; N¥ 3081-C.
He was discontinued 1/10/61 when incarcerated at the
police barracks, :Ellenville, New York. An. FD-302
reflecting GREITZER's interview is maintained in his
New York Office 137 file. ‘There is no indication in
his 137 file that he has furnished anything. but reliable
information. New York further noted that ‘GREITZER
stated that he hoped the information furnished would be
forwarded to the Attorney General of the United States so
that someone could get him out of jail early and he could
go to work in Tampa for FRAFFICANTE and at the same time
furnish information to the. FBI. He was advised that
this was not possible. :

. New York further: noted that it was felt that
FREITZER was capable of taking facts which are essentially
true and relating them by fabrication to captioned
investigation, realizing the importance of information
concerning TRAFFICANTE: and believing such information. might
result in his early release. :

JOHN JOSEPH VITALE, a racket figure from St. Louis,
Missouri, subject of St. Louis file-92-158,. accompanied ‘by
SAM ROTH of St. Louis, arrived Tampa International Airport
AM, 5/8/62 to, according. to St. Louis: source, look into the
tomato. business in conjunction .with produce business. VITALE
had in St. Louis. t

Fisur of JOHN JOSEPH VITALE and ROTH was conducted
by Tampa agents and VWITALE was not observed during fisur
to.be in contact with SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. They were
_observed, however, to have been in contact with FRANK and
ANTONIO. DIECIDUE, FRANK DIECIDUE, subject of Tampa file :
92-22, Bufile 92-4636, who are associates of SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

Fisur established VITALE didvisit tomato outlets
in the greater Tampa area and contact with “TP 75-C* failed
to establish VITALE mentioning subject of this case.

J. C,. VALENTI; owner.of J. C. Valenti.and Company,
Farmer's Market, Tampa, Florida, advised S4s FREDERICK. A.. te H
SLIGHT.and STEPHEN J. LABADIE on 5/18/62. that he had: been. ~ . |

D i
COVER PAGE a melee

NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 4


Ci @)

TP. 92-1

contacted in the recent past by a JOHN and. a SAM from St. Louis,

Missouri: relative to purchasing tomatoes. for subsequent
“distribution:at St. Louis. He had met. them on one occasion
only.and was ‘introduced to them -by..ANTONIO DIECIDUE, who is
also in’ the tomato market. VALENTI stated he had i eviously
been contacted, a short: period of time prior ‘to ‘the above,
by: two. other. individuals::from::St. Louis, one of whom he
recalled was: named LOPICCOLO ‘and. another unknown: white: male
(ANTHONY GIORDANO), ‘whom he stated were: interested in the
banana. business. in Tampa f6r subsequent distribution. in
‘St. Louis. He said thesé 1ndividuals: were met. by him:on
one: occasion only, not. having, ever. known’ them before and
that. they were introduced to: him by ANTONIO DIECIDUE.

The. above is reported in view of the fact. that
“subject is. reported missing from Miami:and his car: was
located'on 5/11/62 at Miami International. Airport: andthe
possibility had existed he may have been in. contact. with
‘subs tndividuals while they: were. in Tampa.
INFORMANTS :

TP. T-1 is ROBERT J. JONES, PCT.

TP T-2.is ‘Legat,: Mexico in-letter: to.Director dated
4/27/62. :

TP ‘T-3:.4s ‘DOMINICK LA.ROCA,. PCI.
TP: T-4 is JERRY: GREITZER;::aka:; -"Tiger" Hymowitz,
-who: is: presently serving-a sentence from 2% to 5.years,

Sing: Sing Prison, Ossining, New York; which sentence. received.
in County: Court; Nassau County, 2/16/62 after. pleading guilty
to.attempted forgery.

TP 1-5 is NY. 2151-C.

TP T-6 is N¥ 2772-C.

TP. T-7.-is ‘NY_.3368-C-TE

TP T-8 is CS TP. 51-C.

E
COVER PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 5



einer ante o ©
TP: 92-1
TP T-9-is MARIO.CAPAZ, PCI.
qi T-10: 4s: CS. N¥-1.

TP: T-11- is. JOSEPH B.. HILL, Agent. in Charge,
Intelligence Unit; Internal Revenue Service; Tampa:

REVIEWED BY BA/JFK TASK FORCE =.

on Allard __*
(7 RELEASE IN FULL
te RELEASE IN PART
Ci TOTAL DENIAL

Fe
COVER PAGE

i
} NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 6


#ROOPPA or ALFONSO ‘BATTAGLINO.

“ IG-JOHN F,. GOOD;
: ‘LAPORE: of. the: Ferrara Confectionary Company.

Ce

TP..92-1

A review.of, New. York Office indices..reflects: no
references identifiable with PETER LAPORE, ANTHONY LAPORE,.: “EDWARD

:29,. 1962,. records of the: Credit Bureau. of:
furnished by: PAULINE DE FIORE to
reflected:no.record.on'.file for PETER -.

On April :13,-:1962;..records ofthe: Bureau..of..Criminal
Identification, New York City Police: Department;, as “caused: to-
be: checked :by: °SA. DAVID: G.: JENKINS, reflected’ no information ident-
ifiable with PETER LAPORE.

RE; Internal Revenue Service Matters On Subject

On May 15,. 1962, TP. T-11 advised SAs FRANCIS. X.
O'BRIEN and

JFK Law 11(a) b

= 114.

| NW 68262 Docld:32289498 Page 7


| FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
In Reply, Please Refer to Tampa, Florida
i File No.
; MAY 2 4 1962
wf
i
Hl
| :
i
i TITLE: SANTO TRAFFICANTE
\ CHARACTER: ANTI-RACKETEERING
REFERENCE: Report of SA STEPHEN J.
: LABADIE dated and captioned
as above. :

TP T-1 is an individual in a position to know
of activities of D. A. LA MAR.

\ TP T-~2 is a source which. furnishes reliable
i information but is not in a position to testify.

TP T-3 is an individual in a position to know
of activities at the Columbia Restaurant. -

TP T-4 is an individual with a criminal record
who comes in contact with hoodlums and racketeers in
I New York City, Miami and Tampa, Florida areas.

TP T-5 is a native of Brooklyn, New York, who
possesses a criminal record and is personally acquainted
with many hoodlums in the Brooklyn, New York area. He
has been associated with gambling ventures and gambling
figures in the past.

TP T-6 is an individual with an extensive
criminal record who is familiar with the hoodlum element >
in the Brooklyn and New York City area. a

TP £27 is a native of New York City who was
born on the lower East side and ratsed in the Bath Beach
section, Brooklyn, New York. He possesses an extensive
criminal record and has been associated with members of
the JOSEPH PROFACI group for many years.

, NW 68262 Docid:32289498 Page 8

