# docid-32336100

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54579 Date: 1214-2022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90132-10004

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-29-827

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/24/1964

2

JACK RUBENSTEIN

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM MIAMI DIVISION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32336100 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

11/24/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority)

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

02 11/20/64, BOB HOPE, the movie actor, arrived in

Miami, Fla., on Northeast Airlines Flight 53 from New York

City.

He was accompanied by a young dark-haired woman.

MORRIS KLEINMAN (MM 92-665) met HOPE at Miami International

Airport and drove HOPE, the young woman and another unidenti-

fied man to the Americana Hotel, Bal Harbour, Fla.

JOHN PATERNOSTRO, former PCI, advised that JOSEPH

FALCONE, SOn Of SALVATORE FALCONE (MM

92-98) recently acquired

the Casa Mia Restaurant, 2024 N. W. 95th St., Miami, Fla.

JOSEPH FALCONE continues to operate and work at Salvatore

Falcone's Italian Grocery in Miami and PATERNOSTRO is the

manager of the Casa Mia Restaurant.

He also advised that "SONNY'/CAPONE, son of AL fli

CAPONE, the well-known Chicago hoodlum, and his wife have

settled their differences and are now back together in the

Miami area. He further advised "SONNY" CAPONE is now employed

in the office of Eastern Airlines in Miami.

MM 743-C reported that TONX SWEET, a gambler, and

ARMAND \CERAMI (MM 92-945) sold their Tony's Fish Market

Restaurant at Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., and bought a 400 seat

restaurant at Key West, F

Fla.

MM 752-C advised that JOE CAMPERLENGO, a Broward

/ Co., Fla. night cluboperator, recently leased the Peppermint

Lounge,

N. Bay Village, Fla.;,

for five years from JOHN BIELE

(MM 92-479) and DICK/CAMI, son-in-law of BIELE.

He reported

sid!

Bureau

67-7-710

Miami

REG-64

21 NOV 27 1964

RFF: mgw.?,/

Appro

ed:

Sent

_M

Per

C C : Wick

Special,

Charge

1554

NW 64578 Docld:32336100 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

that FRANK DIOGUARDI (MM 92-405), JOE INDELICATO (MM 92-404)

and JORAMILSTEIN (MM 92-1360) have been seen hanging around

there.

MM 509-C-TE advised a new gambling club called

the Collins Hungarian Civic Group Club, opened at 618

The principal card games are

futt

HARRYAPAPIER, alleged to be a fence and part owner of the

Biscayne Valet Laundry, Miami Beach; RUTH (GASSENHEIMER,

Vowner of the Patio Briage Club, Miami Beach, and BEN

MUSICK MM 165-332). Reportedly HUSICK was

taken in as

one of the operators of the club as he was able to secure

the "OK" and is able to handle the "fix" with the local law

recently arrived from Las Vegas,

Is the manager and the

dealers are HARSHIE (LNU); STANLEY WILLIAMS and STANLEY

STANN, to date.

He also advised ABE/SCHLETSKY, a gambler, left

for Las Vegas, Nevada. SCHETSKY just invested some money

and became a partner of ALFIE MART (MM 162-14) in the Derby

Horse Room and LOUIS BLACKER,

a gambler and Miami Beach

Fit

laundry operators, acquired

a piece of SCHLETSKY's financial

interest.

MM 962-PC reported that SOL\EDER. (MM 165-208)

accompanied by his brother, CORNELIUS IER, a resident

of New York City, visited at the office of the National

Plastering eo.,

and JACK/RUBIN.

i1 amt Beach, operated by MAX EDER (MM 92-467))

- 2

-

NW 64578 Docld:32336100 Page 3

---

