Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM oi

01/14/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

194-10004-10376

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGES 31-32

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

USA
{ RESTRICTED ]

[ RESTRICTED ]
11/21/68
2

MARTI, MANUEL ~
EDUCATION RECORD
EDUCATION INTERVIEW
BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
UNCLASSIFIED
3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95

NW 64954 Docld:34529192 Page 1


(AR 981-190; FM 30-17)
1) NAME OF SUBIECT OR TLE OF INCIDENT 7, DATE SUBMITTED
SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel NMN : 21 November 1968
ASN-6§N: US 52 737 780 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OF FILE NUMBER
i Ai 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
2

“4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

LISTED EDUCATION RECORD
SCHOOL : Bronx Community College (BCC)
ADDRESS: 120 East 184th Street, Bronx, New York (N.Y.)
i WLacCE : Mrs. Mildred Kraft, Assistant Registrar
Subject's Name with Aliases: Manuel MARTI
Address 3 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, N.Y.
Previous Addresses : None Listed
Date and Place of Birth : Not Listed
Date of Attendance Summer Sessioii 1967
Courses and/or Major Not Listed
Instructors : Not Listed
Graduate (Degree) Non-Matriculant
Grades & Not indicated
Record of Transcripts Not Listed
Previous Education Not Listed
Employments Not Listed
Parents or Guardian Not Listed
Remarks SUBJECT'S records at BCC are incomplete.
SUBJECT did not forward customary papers,

such as transcripts of previous education,
to BCC.

._ SIGNATURE OF SBRCIAT AGENT

DAS. 341

NW 64954 Docld:34529192 Page 2


1, NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT. 3 OE SumeTe

jovember 1968

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

‘OR FILE NUMBER

3. CONTROL

JEK Act 5

REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EDUCATION INTERVIEW) On 27 September 1968, Mrs. Mildred
Kraft, assistant registrar, Bronx Community College (BCC), 120 East
184th Street, Bronx, New York, was interviewed in an attempt to
locate former instructors of MARTI, who attended BCC during the Summer
session of 1967, with results as follows:

Kraft stated that MARTI'S records were incomplete, and that
there was no indication as to who HIS instructors might have been. There
was no major course of study. Source could suggest no one who might have
knowledge of SUBJECT.

EYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
|AGROLD LEKRER, 108th MI Gp (I-NYFO) <del EC siege”
DA otis BAD erces 0.050 101 34 sur 47, wir mar USED

|

NW 64954 Docld:34529192 Page 3
