# docid-32331412

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90097-10034

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-637-15

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

54678 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/17/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32331412 Page 1

---

## Page 2

....

• FBI

Date:

6/17/63

PLAIN TEXT

Transmit the following In- (Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

REGULAR MAIL

Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC,

WASHINGTON FIELD

FROM : SAC, BALTIMORE (166-63) (P)

SUBJECT: JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

ITAR

00: Washington Field

On June 14, 1963, SAS GEORGE R. FLETCHER and ALBERT B. MILLER,

Washington Field

Office, contacted SA GERARD R. LOWE at the.

Leonardtown Resident Agency and subsequently introduced SA

LOWE tO MADELINE ACTON, subject of Washington Field file 137-418,

for the purpose of turning over PCI ACTON to the Baltimore Office.

PCI, who has furnished reliable information in the past, to Wash-

ington Field Office, advised SA LOWE in the company of SAs

FLETCHER and MILLER that on Sunday, June 9, 1963, her boyfriend,

EDWARD GRIERSON, (one of the persons arrested at the gambling

raid conducted by the Maryland State Police at the Sportsmen

Club Gambling Casino in Charlotte Hall, Maryland June 12, 1963)

advised that the Sheriff of St. Marys County, Maryland,

MIEDZINSKI, appeared at the Sportsmen Club gambling establishment

the night of Saturday, June 8, 1963, and informed the gamblers

the nient , Bursey.

(present, particularly ALLEN FISHER,

that if he received any

Bureau

Washington Fleld

1

(1 - 137-418)

REC- 9

1 66-434-15

- Richmond (Info)

4

* - Baltimore

(2 - 137-New)

13 JUN 18 1963

GRL: ek

(11)

Approved:

Sent

M Per:

Special

Agent in Charge

JUN 217963

F147

NW 64578 Docld:32331412 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BA 166-63

complaint concerning zambling, he was going to raid the establish-

ment.

In addition, PCI ACION related that at abour 3:00 p.m., on sunday

afternoon,

June 9, 1903, her boyfriend, GRIERSON, told her that

he and JOSEPH LOUIS GUY,

who was also arrested aiming the raid,

moved out gambling varaphernalia, a roulette wheel and a table,

plus a dice table from the gambling establlahment at Charlotte

Hall and took it to the I

and M Van Line Company, Allied Moving

Van Agent, Lexington Park, Marylana.

PCI stated that on wednesday, June J2, 1963, she was at the Cedar

Point Tavern in Lexington Park, Maryland, when a telephone call

was received by the bartender, GEORGE MUSGROVE.

Following the

phone call, MUSGROVE Informed

PCI that

"The $20,000.00 worth of

gambling paranhernalia" was still stored at the Allied Van Line

Agent at Lexington Park, Maryland, namely, the L and M Var Line

Company.

For Information, the pertinent details of this information which

was received from the

"PCI was disseminated on June 14, 1963, to

Captain THOMAS S. SMITH, Criminal Intelligence Untt, Maryland

State Police, Pikesville, and also to BENJAMIN H. BÜRROUGHS, JR.,

NA, Deputy Sheriff of St. Marys County, Maryland.

For the

information of the Bureau, on the morning of June IT,

1963, all principals arrested in the gambling raid appeared

before the Trial Magistrate of St. Marys County, Maryland WILLIAM

LOKAR. The hearings before the Magistrate were

postponed until

10:00 a.m., the morning of June 18, 1963.

At that time, it is expected that the hearings rejative to sub-

ject NESLINE,

CHARLES TOURINE and ALLEN FISHER will be heard.

the trial Magistrate indicated that the remaining principals

have their hearings postponed until July 1, 1963.

For the further information of the Bureau, PHILLIP H. DORSEY,

circuit court Judge for St. Marys County, re-convened the Grand

Jury for the circuit Court of St. Marys

County, Maryland, ob

• the

morning of June 17, 1963, at which time, he charged the jury

to go into all the aspects of this matter and subsequently

2

NW 64578 Docld:32331412 Page 3

---

