# docid-32246622

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10075-10180

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

010146

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

IRS

FROM: OWENS, JAMES

TO :

BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/21/1978

10

BRADEN, JAMES HALE

HUNT, H.L.

HUNT, BUNKER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

LETTER

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Includes memorandum of interview. Box 187.

v9.1

NW 68261 Docld:32246622 Page 1

Date:

10/2/201

Released under the John F. Kennedy

ssassination Hecords Collection Act i

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NV

68261 Date: 09-01-2022

---

## Page 2

Internal Revenue Service

Assistant

Commissioner

(Taxpayer Service and Returns Processing)

• Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 House Office Building

Annex 2

Washington, D.C. 20515

Department of the Treasury

Washington, DC 20224

JUL 2 1 1978

010146

Dear Mr. Blakey:

In re: James Braden

SSN 510-09-4903

Thank you for your letters of June 19 and 21, 1978,

requesting copies of documents pertaining to the assassination

of President John F. Kennedy, and asking that a member of

your staff be allowed to meet

and speak with a Service employee

concerning Mr. James Braden.

We

are enclosing edited copies of documents which may

relate to the assassination of President Kennedy and which

were provided to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

in 1977.

However, a Los Angeles memorandum report prepared

by Special Agent John P. Daley and dated November 17, 1970,

was not included. It is our understanding that this document,

appropriately deleted, is included in material available in

Los Angeles.

Information deleted from the documents consists

of third party tax information.

I have asked our District Director in Dallas to permit

Special Agent Gene Boren to meet with your designated staff

member and to discuss with him the enclosed documents.

discussions relative to

the

tax affairs of Mr. James Braden

will, of course, be limited to that information

i covered by

Mr. Braden's waivers.

NW 68261 Docld:32246622 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2-

Mr. G. Robert. Blakey

If you have any further questions regarding these

requests please contact Mr. Pierre Fauconnet in the National

Office at 566-3359 or Messrs. Curtis Smith or Coy Wilson

in Dallas at (FTS) 749-3059.

Sincerely yours,

(

Commissioner

(Taxpayer Service anc

Returns Processing)

Enclosure

Copies of edited

documents

NW 68261 Docld:32246622 Page 3

---

## Page 4

kill Squad

¿Allegations have been made that BUNKER HUNT purchased

a ranch in

Southern California to be used in training "kill squads" to help rid the

world of communists. Also, the sguads were to be used in foreign coun-

tries to protect the HUNTS' foreign operations.

This allegation is

based on conversations overheard

and there is only a small amount of

documentation supporting this statement.

He know that BUNKER owns property in Southern California, and BUNKER,

together with LAMAR, has had unknown connections with a man in

California named EUGENE BRADING (alias JIM BRADEN,

JAMES BRADLEY LEE,

and JAMES LEE COLE). According to his "wrap sheet" in the available

files, BRADING has a record of burglary, operating a gambling housc,

bookmaking, mall fraud conspiracy, and embezzlement dating back to 1934.

BRADING was allegedly arrested in Dallas, Texas, on the date of JOHN F.

KENNEDY's assassination, questioned and released. Also, he reportedly

was in the HUNTS' offices on the day before the assassination. He was

said to be fifteen minutes away from the point of the assassination of

ROBERT KENNEDY shortly before his shooting.

BRADING is said to be a member of the LA COSTA COUNTRY CLUB near San

Clemente, California, and he spends a great deal of time there.

-25-

NW 68261-Doeld 22246622-Page-4

---

## Page 5

TIME:

DATE:

PLACE:

PRESENT:

MEMORANDUM OF INTERVIEW

8:45 A.M.

February 25, 1971

Offices of Internal Revenue Service

Intelligence Division

Dallas, Texas

JOHN WILSON, I

GENE 4. BOREN, Special Agent

NW 68261 Döcld:32246622 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Memorandun of Interview in re: John Wilson, I

Within the Land Department all records of "lease rentals" and "real

property" are kept on various cards. These cards show the name of the

purchaser; |

the description of the property, the dates of purchase,

fron whom purchased,

ownership interest, the costs, and any notes that might be due on the

property with the due dates. Copies of these lease rental cards and Ical

propcity sheets are sent to each account's accountant, one is kept in the

Land Department and one goes to the party himselff

On April 2, 1970, Mr. WILSON said that JOHN THOMS, a former employee

who still resides in

the Dallas area, was talking with

• GEORGE CURYUS.

CUrl's told THOMAS that the Internal

Revenue Service and Federal Bureau

-2-

NW 68261 Docld:32246622 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Menorandum of Interview in re: John Wilson, I

of Investigation had taps on the telephones of CURINGTON, PAUL ROTHERMEL

and JOHN BROWN. However, CUNYUS did not mention that there was a tap on

his own phone.

Mr. WILSON staied that this statement was reported to BILL

HOLLEMAN, the FBI agent who he understands took a statement from THOMAS,

and that he was sure THOMAS was available and would be willing to repeat

any statement on the wire tap situation.

9.

Mr. WILSON stated there was a folder entitled "LAMAR HUNT" which

includes in that folder a three-page police record of a man who owns a

BAULIAN DRILLING COMPANY by the name of EUGENE BRADEN. MI. WILSON stated

he did not know the extent of the business relationship between LAMAR and

BRADEN;.

10. Mr. WILSON stated that there was a police character from California

by the name of FITE NOLEN and that NOVLEN, BRADEN and another individual

unknown to WILSON were in the offices of LAMAR and BUNKER the day before

the KENNEDY assassination in Dallas. WIlSON stated that there are some

California people who think that there was a conspiracy involving these

parties, including LAMAP and BUNKER, in the assassination. A CES news

conmentator by the name of PETER NOYES has a large file on this allegation.

WILSON said it would be interesting to know just what the exact tie-in

between BUNKER, LAMAR, BRADEN and the California police characters -feare

- 3

ALL 68261 Docldi32246622 Paged

---

## Page 8

Memorandum of Interview in Ie: John Wilson, I

13. Each day whenl

receives the bank balances of all of the

accounts he files

these within his office. MI. WILSON has never heard

him question any withdrawals with

di however, he

could hive done so in private. This particular sheet shows tlie name of

the account such as

let ceteria; it

shoss the total deposit for the day, withdrawals for the day, with

balance, and with another column showing whether this is an overdiaft

or a credit balance.

It also lists at the botton of the page any

Certificates of Deposit which the companies may have purchased. Nt:

HUIT is also furnished daily a schedule of all the companies loans,

the due dates of these loans, the anount of paymenes to be due and

the

principal balance.

15.

He stated that prior to 1960, the first ten minutcs of theit filcen

minute program of LIFE LINe dealt with conscivative political views, with

the last five minutes being a scrmonet of non-dcnominational rcligious

outlooks. He stated that in 1960 a change was made, that the full fiftcen

minutes vocane a conscrvative political vien with no

sermonet for a-six

days of week period.

On Surary the fifteen minutes was allocated to

strictly the non-denoninational rcligious sermonct; however, there was

no HILHI PRODUCIS or any other type of advertising connicied with the Sunday

program. He said in some insiances they were able to have the stations

transmit the sunday program as a public service message.

16. He'stated that hir. HUNT was able to obtain tay exempt status for

YOUTI! FREEDOM SPELERS, an organization where youths traveled throughout

the country speaking on conservative political vieis... He said that Mr.

HUNT initially

léor the YOUT! FREEDOM SPEAKERS which

began in 1967 and it received a few hundred dollars in contributions from

NW 68261: Docld: 32246622 Page 8 ma;

---

## Page 9

Memorandum of Interview in re:

John Wilson, I

18.

He said that all of BUNKER'S land would be shown on the real property

blue sheets and in additional to those offices where we could locate those,.

there is another office, the ad valorem, which would have coples.

19. MI. WILSON stated that in the latter part of March, depositions will

be taken from BEEMAN and CUNYUS, and copies of these depositions will be

forwarded to us.

He stated that on February 26 they plan to take a

deposition from FLOYD DANELS and they will question him concerning, for

instance, the job of CARLION YOUNG who was with the YOUll FREEDOM SPEAKERS.

DANELS would know these facts. He stated that if any iccords are destroyed

as

a result of their depositions, CUNYUS and BEEMAN would do 1t.

20. MI. WILSON stated that HUNI now realizes that his patriotic

advertising idea is a bad deal; that it will not go over.

He said that

MI. HUNT had to do one of two things: To admit that this is a bad deal

and that he had made a mistake, or to throw CURINGTON, ROTHERNEL and

-5-

MW 68261 Docld: 32246622 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Memorandum of Interview in re: John Wilson, I

BROWN to the Wolves and state that he had no ideal that these three people

were making money on the side. HUNT denied that his signature was on the

letters which were allegedly given to MI. CURINGTON promising lifetime

employment, et ceteria.

21. In connection with Mr. HUNT's mislabeling and misbranding food items,

Mr. WILSON mentioned an -

amazeaid"

which took the place of the'old gastro

magic! He stated that the federal government about six months ago had

filed suit for the discontinued use of the amazeaid and, therefore, the

sales stopped. He said that there were no criminal charges dropped; that

Mr. HUNT just agreed not to sell any more of the product.

He stated this

amazeaid was steumed from a formula which was furnished to Mi. KUNT by

his doctor in New York--DI. KING. The formula called for the aid to be

in liquid form; however, Mr. HUNT made it into a powdered tablet and

without naking any lab or clinic test of any. test on human beings begin

selling it in 1963. This suit was filed by the government in 1970;

therefore, he had seven years of sales.

The product was to cure stomach-

aches, diarrhea, overindulgence and hangovers, among other things.

LIVINGSTON, CUNYUS and all of the label people had told Mr. HUNI that

this product and the nethod of advertising it was violating the laws;

however, Mr. HUNT said he was willing to take the chance.

22.: In another instance,

the Pure Food and Drug Administration filed suit.

against HLH FOOD PRODUCTS for selling contaminated pepper which containca

rat droppings. The plant manager, JAMES WOODYRD, received a two to five-

year probated

sentence for this violation. Mr. HUNT was not included in

this particular allegation. This occurred within the last two years.

WOODARD is presently working for MARY KAY COSMSTICS• GEORGE CUNYUS told

Mr. WILSON

that TIM TINMINS

Jin order

to keep Mr. HUNT out of this particular violation.

Another arca of mislabeling and violation of Pure Food and Drug Acts

was the sale of ALAVERA... Mr. Wilson stated that when this ALAVERA was

made into a jell that it tested to have a high bacteria count causca by

the process of making it into the form of jell. He said that Mr. HUNT

had been advised on several occaions by his laboratory that this jell did

contain such a high count; however, it is still on the shelves and still

He said files on these particular violations would be in the

laboratory records under the care of Dr. CARL RAU. He said that DI. RAU

would testify and tell us anything that HUNT instructed him to do. RAU

is a PHD and would be a competent witness. to testify in behalf of HLI

24• Another area of selling and mislabeling foods would be the bottle

water which Mr. WILSON discussed having come fron INDIANS HOI SPRINGS.

On all of these violations Mr. HUNT gave his personal instructions that

-6-

wx50261Docldies2465ce-Page-10

---

## Page 11

Memorandum of Interview, in re: John Wilson, I

they be done. The boys knew about these violations; however, they thought

it was a joke and laughed about what "their ole man" was doing.

Gene A. Boren

Special Agent

NIC 68261

Docld: 32246622 Page 11

---

