JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: 5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90115-10092 2 (44 USC 2107 Note), Casef:NW
e 0
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4882-6
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: 05/06/1964
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
EDWIN MARGER
MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/07/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

}

v9.

NW 64578 Docld:32340521 Page 1


SUBJECT:

COM ane YW ey

YD GIS. NY

“UNITED STATE! ‘OVERNMENT

Memorandum

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 . sorooees
MAY Jb82 EDITION
GSAGeN-REG. NO. 27 a

Director, FBI (97-4882) DATE: 5/6/64

Bib SAC, Miami (105-8713) (P)

EDWIN MARGER ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

RA ~ DR HEREIN IS pNGeASSFIE}

Miami .00 i oni le /efe © UES Sofie
: IP IC

Reference New York letter to Bureau 3/18/64
titled FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - DR; Miami airtel to
Bureau’ 3/19/64 and Washington Field ‘letter to Bureau
4/14/64.

Miami informants are negative with regard to
information concerning MARGER,

The New York Office, by referenced communica-
tion, advised its files: contain no information ‘regarding
MARGER ;

i Washington Field by referenced communication,
advised the subject had ‘registered as an agent-of the
Dominican Republic » and .LHM accompanying referenced
Washington Field letter furnished full information set
out by MARGER in déscribing his business interests and
past history. Washington Field also advised that con-
tacts with informants in that area disclosed they did

not know the subject and had no information concerning
him,

NEW YORK, at New ‘York, will furnish Miami with
results of contacts with Sources and informants,

i
| :
f SAN JUAN, at San Juan, will furnish Miami with | 4

results of contacts with Sources and informants,

2 = San Juan (RM) . 7)

1 - Washington Field (9741712) (Info. ) (RM)

3 = Miami (2-105-8713) +”. -
(1-134-995 EDWIN MARGER)

THE: JMS - -

o.
(0) Se

od

|
|
{
i
i
|
j

i
|
i
i

8 MAY 8 1964

SECs, ‘

NW 64578 Docld:32340521 Page 2

i

| /
eta 4 PY pln \
@ Bureau (RM) we peesgn ZZ-1R PAM Ly
- New York (RM)


‘OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 19 sm0106-08
MAY 1982 EDITION es
GSA GEN. REG-NO. 27 te

UNITED STATES. e i ‘VERNMENT : :
Memorandum

.TO  : DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4882)

)

FROM : SAC AN JUAN - RUC
SAF (97-735) (RUC)

\
SUBJECT: spur Qanger
RA - DR

\ oO: MM 1

stl)

/

Re MM airtel and LHM dated 3/10/64.

For the information of MM and the Bureau, San Juan ye
indices were negative concerning captioned individual?

The following sources, who are familiar with
Dominican activity, were contacted on the dates

indicated without developing any information concerning
subject or his activities:¢,_-

fenvesto VEGA-PAGAN, PSE, UD, 4/20/64 iD (

FEDERICO ARES-MALDONADO, PSI, UD, 4/27/6%% fas
SJ_513-S, 4/9/6451

br. parro MINAYA-NUNEZ, PSI, UD, 3/30/6 fn)

foanoanrra VASQUEZ, PSI, UD, 3/30/64 A Ray

awlofailag.. (ee

3 - cers (o8en3) on GI-YEES- (

1 - San "Uuani giz: fi
BEC.D @ MAY 21 1964

u.

NW 64578 Docld:32340521 Page 3
