# docid-32328312

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90073-10016

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-7599-2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Accassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

59496 Diate: 12-02-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/28/1964

59

DAVE YARAS

DAVID YARAS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

V9.1

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-1047

AT LOS ANGELES. CALIFORNIA:

1. Will ascertain full details concerning the

Hill Street Cigar and Liquor Store, 562 South Hill, Los

Angeles, in which YARAS was an alleged partner with SAM

YARAS as of 1959.

"2. Ascertain full details concerning a partnership

between one HAROLD MELTZER, and RONALD J. and LEONARD

YARAS, SOnS Of DAVE YARAS.

3. Identify subscriber to telephone number

Beverly Hills OL 2-4059.

4. Will reinterview MILTON ZUCKER MENDE who was

originally interviewed on June 12, 1961, at which time he

furnished information relating to the possibility of the

purchase of a shopping center with DAVE YARAS at Spring Valley,

New York. MENDE is to be questioned pertaining to any other

legitimate enterprises and whether or not the Spring Valley

Shopping Center materialized.

5. Will report all information relating to the

Oxy-Aid Distributors, 8687 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly Hills,

California, it being noted that in' 1958, Mr. ROD GOERIZ,

National Board d Fire Underwriters, stated that YARAS and

PATRICK were partners in this enterprise.

6. Will report all details concerning the

Capital Vendors, Incorporated at 1122 South La Cienega,-

it being noted

that

as of 1963 LA 4410-C-TE reported that

this enterprise maybe one in which YARAS and PATRICK are

connected.

E

COVER PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-1047

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

Information obtained from MM 794-C, an

inactive source, has been carefully paraphrased and included

in the body of

this report in order that a more cohesive

picture may be had concerning YARAS' criminal activities,

particularly while in the Miami area.

CG 6758-C* advised that on May 28, 1964,

FELIX ALDERISIO, a Chicago top hoodlum, JOHN D'ARCO,

former alderman, first ward, Chicago, MICHAEL BRODKIN,

Chicago attorney, discussed

the fact that D'ARCO's son

was involved in an automobile accident in the Miami area,

which could result in his being expelled from the University

of Miami. According to this source, a payoff was or is

being made from Miami and the money for this payoff is

being sent from Chicago through MICHAEL BRODKIN tO DAVE

YARAS. YARAS was then to pass this money on to the proper

individuals. It is noted that the person to be contacted

in Miami relative to YARAS' known whereabouts is MAX

LURIE, well known Miami criminal attorney, who represents

DAVE YARAS.

It was ascertained by CG 6758-C* that YARAS was

cexpected in the Chicago area sometime around the first of

June,1964. This would give credence to information wherein

it was reported that YARAS makes monthly trips from Miami

to Chicago, said journeys being made around the first part

of each month.

INFORMANTS

COVER PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-1047

IDENTITY

MM T-1

MM 794-C*

MM T-2

MM 509-C

MM T-3

ANTHONY RANDINO,

IRS, Auditing Division,

Miami, Florida (Req.)

MM T-4

SANDY SMITH,

Crime Reporter

"Chicago Sun-Times" (Req.)

DATE

2/62

various dates,

1962-64

4/27/64

various dates,

1963

MM T-5

CG 6538-C-TE

various date,

2/64-4/64

MM T-6

CG 5132-C

REVIEWED BY 'FE/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 119/92 8al

RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

various dates,

1957

J

-

COVER

PAGE

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 4

CONTACTING

AGENT.

SA RALPH

R. HILL, JR. •

SA ROBERT

F. FETZNER

SA RALPH

R. HILL, JR.

SA RALPH

R. HILL,. JR.

SA RALPH

R. HILL, JR.

SA WILLIAM

J. Mc CORMACK

---

## Page 5

MM 92-1047

T- 7

CG 6215-C

T-8

CG 6443-C

T- 9

ELLIS BERNSTEIN,

PCI, Richmond Office

T-10

MM 848-C

T-11

Dun and Bradstreet

T-12

MONROE GITELSON

PCI

T-13

B. ROLLAND OPPENHEIMER

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 5

7/7/58

various

dates,

1961-62

2/64

2/18/64

1/20/58

various dates

1962-64

4/16/64

-

K

COVER PAGE

SA ROBERT

L. BAKER

SA JOSEPH

G. SHEA

SA C.

GRAHAM

HURST

SA ROBERT

F. FETZNER

SA JOHN

P. LENIHAN

SA DON W.

WALTERS

SA RALPH

R. HILL, JR.

---

## Page 6

MM 92-1047

These individuals related that they are in the

business of the home improvement field in Chicago, which

operates in interstate commerce.

They advised that on

the advice of their attorney, whose name they refused to

divulge, they contacted the FBI and related the following

story:

They stated that approximately 5 to 6 weeks ago

they were approached by LEONARD PATRICK and DAVE YARAS.

They said that these individuals told them that they would

eat these by

have to start making payoffs amounting to $1,000.00 per week.

They advised that PATRICK and YARAS made no indication as

to the reason for the payoff, but knowing the reputation

of these two, they were fearful of them.

The complainants

stated that after some negotiation with YARAS and PATRICK

they agreed to make a payment of $1,250.00 per month

commencing Saturday, April 6, 1957.

They stated that they had discussed this payoff

with other individuals in the home improvement industry and

found that they too had been approached and some were

actually making payoffs.

These unknown complainants refused to furnish their

names, the name of their company or the name of their attorney.

They stated they did not want to get mixed up in any investí-

gation in which they might become potential government

witnesses against YARAS and PATRICK.

In February, 1964, MM I-& advised of the following:

In the early part of 1963 informant obtained an

option for the operation of a

gambling casino at the Normandy

Hotel, San Juan, Puerto Rico, where informant has other

business interests.

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 92-1047

Informant was anxious to obtain financial backing on a

partnership basis in this venture and in July, 1963, he

read an article in the magazine section of a Miami,

Florida newspaper indicating that SAM GIANCANA, the well

known Chicago hoodlum, was seeking partnership

arrangements

with American businessmen who could operate or obtain

gambling concessions in the Caribbean area and South America,

which article indicated that GIANCANA was interested in

investment in such ventures.

Subsequently, the informant made a contact with

a friend of his and asked how GIANCANA could be approached.

The friend told the informant that he knew one of GLANCANA's

close business

associates and would arrange a contact.

Sometime later informant received a telephone call

from one DAVE (INU) and TEDDY (INU), who claimed to be

GIANCANA's business associates and

desired a meeting to

discuss this matter.

Informant met with DaVE and TEDDY in Miami and they

" seemed to know considerable information concerning informant's

financial standing, the fact that his resources were

committed and the fact that the brother of informant was

a principal controller of their business interests.

On or about October 19, 1963, the informant met

TEDDY and DAVE at the Americana Hotel,

New York City. At

this meeting DAVE and TEDDY began talking about "protection"

and the ability of GIANCANA and his syndicate to furnish

slot machines for the gambling operation.

With this turn

In the negotiations, based upon the informant's original

understanding that GIANCANA desired to invest money, the

informant insisted upon seeing GIANCANA.

DAVE and TEddY

gave him no encouragement along this line and told informant

it was not necessary to contact them but that they would

contact him, always from a pay phone from wherever they were

calling.

NW 68486 Docld:32328312 Page 7

---

