# docid-32332872

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10170

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2940-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/12/1959

'PAGES:

28

SUBJECTS:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA, IRS

COMMENTS: RPT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

58262 Date: 09.22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

Information Relating To Testimony Before Federal Grand Jury

At

Pa.s On

On 3/23/59, U. S. Attorney HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, Pittsburgh,

furnished the following information

to SAC E. H. WINTERROWD

and SAS RICHARD GORDON DOUCE and THOMAS G. FORSYTH III:

Duking his appearance before the Federal Grand Jury meeting

advised

JEK Law 10(a)2

JFK Law 10(a)2

took the protection of

the Fifth Amendment when he was asked 1f

JFK Law 10(a)2

Outside the federal Grand Jury room, however,

advised the U. S. Attorney that he had not

attended the meeting at Apalachin.

During his appearance before a Federal Grand Jury at

Lon

Ladvised

that he

JFK Law 10(a)2

/ He took advantage oi

the Fifth Amendment when he was asked questions regarding

and he also pleaded the Fifth Amendment when he was asked

questions regarding

JFK Law 10(a)2

During his appearance before the Federal Grand Jury meeting

at

on

advised he

JFK Law 10(a) 2

JFK Law 101ad2

REVIEWED

-ON -

10/10/00 col

; CO RELEASE IN FULL

LE RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

_A-

COVER PAGE

1019z

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

JFK Law 10(a)2

but took the protection of the Fifth

Amendment when he was asked

He also took this Constitutional privilere when he was

asked if

JFK Law 10(a)2

/JEK Law 10(a)2

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized

by the Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

investigation:

PG 573-C, who is extremely friendly with the

GENOVESE

brothers and particularly FIORE GENOVESE,

younger brother of MIKE GENOVESE, and who is

presently being utilized for the general coverage

of the Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

PG 585-C, who is well acquainted with most of

Pittsburgh's top hoodlums and who was formerly

employed as a waitress in the Red Eagle ClublE

once known as the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

Larimer Ave., Pittsburgh. Informant still

visits

this establishment and comes in constant contact

with MIKE GENOVESE and other members of

Pittsburgh's racketeering element in her role

as a medium-priced prostitute.

Informant is

presently travelling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow

Of JAKE MINTZ, CO-OWner Of EZZARD CHARLES, former

world's heavyweight boxing champion.

She is

presently being utilized for the coverage oi the

GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON interests.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a PCI who is presently very

active in Pittsburgh numbers operations and who

was arrested during the month of August, 1958,

in connection with his operation.

MESSER is

intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top

- B

COVER PAGE

92-2940-917101 1o

1010) 2)

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

hoodlums and racketeers through association

with them when they began their racket careers.

He is presently being utilized for coverage of

the GENOVESE-NELSON interests and is also.

contributing information regarding the VOLPE

brothers who are close associates of GENOVESE

and LA ROCCA.

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office

presently engaged

in racket activity in the City of

Pittsburgh who is being utilized for general"

coverage of lottery and numbers operations in the

Pittsburgh area.

HENRY J. BARBER, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office

who is part owner of the notorious gambling

establishment at Chester, W. Va.;

; known as Chub 30,

who is being utilized for information concerning

the club and the interest in it of Pittsburgh

hoodlums associated with both LA ROCCA

and GENOVESE.

Miss MARIAN FOGEL, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office

who is being utilized for information concerning

Pittsburgh prostitution activities and as a check

on the activities of Miss FRANCES PRIAM.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now

Vice-President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan

Department,

Pittsburgh, who is being utilized for his

knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh

from which he can obtain information regarding bank

loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums. BUCK is

also familiar with the activities of several of

Pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those of

ROCCA, from having worked on criminal matters

in the

City of Pittsburgh.

HERMAN ISRAEL, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is

being utilized for information concerning

who is also furnishing information regarding

the MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, tieup and

the GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

COVER PAGE

do 101-101J0

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

WILLIAM A. DOBKIN, a confidential source of the

Pittsburgh Office who was extremely helpful to

Pittsburgh Agents during the investigation of the

RALPH KINER extortion investigation several years

ago and whose brother-in-law, NORMAN FARBER, is

a member of, the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage, the

Pels under development are being contacted on a continuing

and regular basis so that information obtained from them

may be used on a day-to-day basis in connection with spot

surveillances of the establishments frequented by the

subject when he is in the Pittsburgh vicinity.

It is anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice-President of

the Real Estate Department of the fidelity Trust co.,

Potter Branch, in Pittsburgh, will keep the Pittsburgh

Office advised of any new developments concerning the

proposed construction of a motel financed by MIKE GENOVESE

and ARTHUR D. NELSON in the Monroeville, Pa., vicinity

which would undoubtedly have to have the approval and

overall financial backing of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA.

LEADS

BALTIMORE, JACKSONVILLE, MIAMI, AND PHILADELPHIA - INFO

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Baltimore

Office inasmuch as that office has leads outstanding

relating to the

GABRIEL "KELLY" Whereabouts of national top hoodlum

MANNARINO and the subject during the

period of their disappearance from the Pittsburgh area.

One copy of this report is being furnished to the Jacksonville

and Miami Offices for informational purposes because of

allegations made by the wife of LA ROCCA and Pittsburgh

informants concerning subject's travel to Florida and Cuba

during his disappearance from Pittsburgh following the

Apalachin, N. Y., conference during November, 1957. : With

the background

thus supplied, it is felt that these offices

can intelligently handle the coverage of future leads

requested in that

vicinity.

COVER PAGE

No: 1048-10010

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FD-201 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

ROBERT A. VOEGE

MAY 1 2 1959

File Number: Pittsburgh 92-226

Title:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

Office:

PITTSBURGH

Bureau 92-2940

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

JEK Law 10(ạ) 2

Synopsis:

appeared before Eederal Grand Jury at

Len_

and was questioned

for more than one hour about matters relating

to

Hearing was attended by repre-

sentative of U. S. Attorney General's Special

Group. Appearance of

since shortly

after meeting of hoodlums in November, 1957,

received widespread newspaper publicity citing

his Apalachin connection and stories were accompanied

by photographs, for which subject unhesitatingly

posed. Appearing before same grand Jury were

and

but testimony, or

Lack thereol, has not been made public to date.

United States Attorney is considering appearance

before future

Federal Grand

Jury. Date has not been set for appearance of

subject before U. S. Senate Select Committee on

Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field.

IN VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT

WITH INTENT TO KILL AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A

CONCEALED WEAPON, HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

Pa.

92-2940-47

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of any kind.

It is the property of the FBl, and is a loan to your agend 2)

it and /or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

18 - 74625-1

GPO

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 6

---

## Page 7

• PG 92-226

Out Of Jail." In a lengthy coverage of VALENTI's appearances

before the New York State Commission this article quoted

VALENTI as saying he had not only met GABRIEL MANNARINO

at the meeting but had also met MICHAEL JAMES GENOVESE

of Gibsonia, Pa.

He stated there were 30 or 40 persons

at Apalachin, according to his estimate, but that there

could have been 50.

He said he only knew 4 or 5 of them

and said that he did not inquire how

it was that such a

large gathering was held in BARBARA's home in the middle

of the day during the middle of the week.

The article

quoted him as saying that he was at the BARBARA home for

about six 'hours eating and drinking brandy.

It also quoted

him as saying that he was undismayed when it was made known

that State Police were on the premises and that even if

J. EDGAR HOOVER, FBI chief, was there he would not have been

bothered.

An article appearing in the "Pittsburgh Press" dated

March 26, 1959,

and entitled "VALENTIS Fail In Freedom

Bid" stated that the New York State Supreme Court had

refused on that date to set free FRANK VALENTI, ex-

Pittsburgh racketeer, and his brother, _COSTENZE, who

had been in jail since August, 1950.. It quoted

Justice

EDGAR J. NATION as saying "The court is not required

to shut

its eyes to reality and accept answers which

1 are

replies in form only but, which in substance, are as

useless as complete refusals to answer.

Information Regarding Possible New Business

Associates of' LA ROCCA

PG T-3, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised that he has reason to believe that

JFK Law 11(a)

Release in part

per IRS 1/15/98/00

- 8-

dolo+ 2593970-47190

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PG 92-226

a croupier at the MANNARINO gambling establishment in

New Kensington, Pa.

He said that he has been present

at that establishment with RINALDO and that RINALDO

mentioned to him approximately 5 or 6 days prior to

the time the MANNARINOs and LA ROCCA were to appear

before the Federal Grand Jury at Pittsburgh, that

no one was to call his home under any circumstances

would have a

described them only as a man and girl

and the informant

advised he never saw them because

they never left

the house but had "CHIPS" bring in food for the girl

to cook.

He believes

they exchanged cars also and that

RINALDO drove this car to New Kensington nightly while

the couple stayed at his house.

The informant stated

that he had an idea the couple had something to do with

the Federal Grand Jury and wondered whether there was

anyone who did not answer a subpoena and could not be

made not ana ena

located.

He further advised that RINALDO has a roomin a

house almost directly across the street from the Pepsi-

Cola bottling plant near the 5700 block of Center Avenue

and answers telephone number EMerson 2-2298.

A review of the Crisscross Telephone Directory for the

City of Pittsburgh reflects that one ALFRED RONALLO

of 5717 Fifth Avenue, subscribed to telephone EMerson

2-2298. -

PG T=2 advised that on March 10, 1959, a collect telephone

call was made to the aforementioned number from GALE

on March 15, 1959, a call was

made from the

number to LE 9-7640. The party was identified as

GALE RUSH, Room 411, Mayfair Hotel, Baltimore.

PG I-5 advised that when JOHN LA ROCCA returned to Pittsburgh,

from the location at which he was hiding since shortly

after the Apalachin meeting in November, 1957, his youngest

brother

JOHN, who is known in racket circles as "Young

JOHNNIE" left his racket setup in Johnstown, Pa., and

spent almost 3 weeks in Pittsburgh, presumably for

conferences with his brother. He said that

"Young JOHNNIE"

telephoned FRANCES PRIAM, Pittsburgh prostitute and

former paramour of the subject, for dates on 3 occasions

-13-

dO 100.10110

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PG 92-226

while in Pittsburgh and was desirous of having that

individual come to Johnstown with him for a short stay.

He said that when

"Young JOHNNIE"

comes to Pittsburgh

ne always stays with his brother TONY,

a barber whose

children are grown. He explained that TONY is ostensibly

not connected with the rackets in any manner®

and is

more lenient about late hours and carousing than is

the subject.

PG I-4 advised that the term "Mafia was never used when

he was closely associated with LA ROCCA, FRANK AMATO,

and the MANNARINO brothers. He said that everyone knew

these individuals during the late 1930's and early 40's

as

"blackhanders" and that this term was bandied about

without fear at the offices of the Coin Machine Distributing

Company on Baum Boulevard in Pittsburgh where LA ROCCA held

sway.

He said that the aforementioned individuals hired

groups of "toughs" to do their work for them and that these

hoodlums of low intelligence and poor Italian background

carried no knives or guns.

He said that he recalls that

they were armed with cue

sticks which they had ostensibly

stolen from poolrooms throughout the Pittsburgh area and

which had been sawed off to 12-15" lengths.

He explained

that the heavy end of the cue stick was used as the business

end and that a hole was bored into the bottom and lead used

as a lurther weight.

He said that after the lead was

inserted into the hole, the hole was corked or filled in

some other manner to make a flat surface.

The informant recalled that he was given one of the

aforementioned cue

sticks as a present by MIKE GENOVESE, who

fashioned it for his own use, and that he was told by

GENOVESE to use it

have can

"Ior protection."

He said he would still

have the stick if he had not left it in a glove compartment

of a car he sold and does not recall just

when these sticks

went out of fashion.

He recalled that in those days the

Italian element in Pittsburgh had a great fear and respect of

LA ROCCA who was, to all intents and purposes, the leader of

the "blackhanders.

He said that LA ROCCA was overshadowed

on many occasions, however, by FRANK AMATO, a more mature and

calm racketeer who gave many orders himself and was far more

respected than was LA ROCCA because of his restraint and thought-

fulness in dealing with men working for him.

He said that working

in the same office AMATO was a direct contrast to LA ROCCA

and tempered LA ROCCA's orders and blusteryness somewhat.

-14-

20108-10010

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PG 92-226

will have to be handled, however, within the next five or

six weeks, and that at the end of that time LA ROCCA will

probably be called before him to answer some questions

concerning his whereabouts during his disappearance

and for further instructions regarding his petition for

naturalization.

HEIMOVITZ advised that he will immediately

contact the Pittsburgh Office of the FBI should any new

recommendations concerning the petition filed by LA ROCCA

come to his attention and that he will advise SA VOEGE

as to the date he will request LA ROCCA to appear.

Liaison Maintained With Pittsburgh Offices of the

United States Attorney and United States Marshal

HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, United States Attorney for the Western

District of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on

May 3, 1959, that no date has been set as far as he knows

the appearance oi either SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA Or

GABRIEL "KELLY" MANNARINO before the U. S. Senate Select

Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Managemen't

Field. He stated that his official records reflect that

appeared before a Federal Grand Jury sitting at

•on|

and was questioned

about matters relating toL

He stated that this hearing was

attended by a representative of the U. S. Attorney General's

Special Group and that appearing before this same Grand Jury

nearing were

He stated

that he has no plans for releasing the testimony or lack

thereof of these individuals and that he has made none

public to date.

He also advised that heis giving serious

consideration to the appearance of _

before a Federal Grand Jury meeting at

Pittsburgh in the future despite the fact that he has

already appeared before a Federal Grand Jury in New York City.

ALBERT DIMEOLO, United States Marshal for

the Western District

of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh, advised SA VOEGE on April 30,

1959, that he has received no other subpoenaes for SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA or for any of his racket associates.

He stated

he will immediately advise the Pittsburgh Office should

subpoenaes arrive for any racket individuals within his

jurisdiction.

REVIEWED BY

KENJFK TASK FORCE

-19-

ON

10/10/92 dol

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENAL SEAN T

'K Law 11(a)

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 10

---

## Page 11

• PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 is H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, Pittsburgn,

Pa.,

Post Office,

, who was

contacted on April 20, 1959,

by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE and who has requested that

his identity be concealed.

PG T-2 is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone

Co., of Pennsylvania,

who was contacted by SA HAROLD

L. STEVENS on April 24, 1959, and who has requested

that his identity be concealed.

PG T-3 is ROBERT GANLEY of the Intelligence Division of

the Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh Office,

has requested that his identity be concealed.

PG T-4 1S GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a potential criminal

informant of the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted

by SA VOEGE on April 28, 1959.

PG I-5 is PG 585-C, who was contacted by SA vOEGE on

April 7, 1959.

-21-

d0101-10110

NW 68262 Docld:32332872 Page 11

---

