# docid-32337474

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90137-10240

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89017-NR

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#N'vy

64578 Date: 12-14-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 10/21/1960

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ANTONIO STEELSON DELGADO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32337474 Page 1

---

## Page 2

F BI

Date:

10/21/60

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code),

Via

AIRTEL

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

19/10 635 B05W6852N

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (61-7214)

end --COPIFS MADE

MY ON:

DACR

FOR T.

TO

PAPiCI 6917?

FROM

: SAC, NEW YORK (105-31088)

(82

() 4)

SUBJECT: [CUBAN CONSULATE GENERAL, NEW YORK](&U)

IS - CUBA

- Bureau ((61-7214) (Encls. 54) (RM)

'(JFE)"

(]

1

-(42-152338) (BERNARDO RUIZ LAMBERT MACHINA; ET AL)

197-4098

JORGE ORIHUELA)

ERASMO GASCA PEREZ)

-

97-4033

OLGA PLANCA)

MANUEL GUILLOT)

105-10351

PELEGRIN GARCIA)

105-84576

((4)

405-89017

JOSE VAZQUEZ BLANCO

105-88465

AITONDOST BEI SOND (A)$)

RICARDO AZCUY)

134-

FRANCISCO MORALES LLANES)

CESAR FAES)

134-

(LUIS EUGENIO GARCIA CELA)

105-85389)

(NILDA DEL CARMEN NUNEZ VELAZQUEZ)

(JOAQUIN SANCHEZ)

AURAL AND SAUCENCE ACTIVETIES IN USD((U)

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO)

11 -

(1 - 134-

ARENTE NAGIONAL DEMOCRATICO) (ETU)

(CELIA GIRONA)

Miami

(Encls.

22) (RM)

(1

42-9046)

(CUBAN CONSULATE GENERAL, NEW YORK) (Encis. 2)

(BERNARDO RUIZ LAMBERT MACHINA) (Info) (Enels. 2)

(CESAR FAES) (Encls. 4)

134-

(FRANCISCO MORALES LLANES) (Enols.

(AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO)

4)

(Encls.

4)

1 - New York

((105-31088)

(CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN

copica

FIL: ndw

татья

continued page 2.

105 -20

(31)

8-104

(53),

Messie

9803-Rddlude

NOT RECORTAI

Approved:

Declassify

0AU

21326

1.68

NOV

Sent.

- M Pert:

Special

Agent in Charge

MATION "

WIRD EXCEPT

HSPA

5 I NOV

2 1960

NW 64578 Docld:32337474 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NX(205-32038](474)

Copies continued

1

Innt

- New York

- New York

New York

BERNARDO RUIZ LAMBERT MACHINA)

- New York

105-43862) (ERASMO GASCA PEREZ)

(97-1781) (JORGE ORIHUELA)

- New York

1

105-38996 (OLGA BLANCA)

• New York 105-41879) E ANTONIO STEELSON

New York

(105-39468

OSE VAZQUEZ BLANCO)

New York

105-41246

New

York

(JOAQUIN SANCHEZ)

(CESAR FAES)

New

York

{134-5337)

(ADM)

New

York

(105-41242

(RICARDO AZCUY)

New

York

(105-40142)

New

New

York

105-42090)

York

New

New

York

(103-1800 (MA VALOR)

(134*NEN) (FRANCISCO MORALES LLANES)

York

S(-NEW)

New

(FRENTE NACIONAL DEMOCRATICO)

1

1

New

York

York

(AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO)

105-

(DIEGO DIAZ

- New

York

(I05-39129) (CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN US) ENCU

-2 -

NW 64578 Docld:32337474 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY {05-32088)(81(4)

Attached hereto for the Bureau are 27 copies of a

memorandum dated and captioned as

above,

along with the same

number of copies of a memorandum describing the reliability

of the informants utilized.

NY T-I IS LUIS EUGENIO GARCIA CELA, who is employed

as a business machine operator at the Cuban Consulate General

in NYC. (S)

NY I-2 IS FRANCISCO MORALES LLANES, Who States he

was born in Cuba on 4/2/03 and has INS #A8574870. MORALES

MORALES said that he arrived in New York about 10 days ago

from Miami, Florida, and that he is assisting AURELIANO SANCHEZ

ARANGO in organizing the Frente Nacional Democratico (FND) •

MORALES said he expects that SANCHEZ ARANGO and other officers

of the FND will soon make contact with an attorney and will

register the organizationif so advised by the attorney teC

NY I-l and NY I-2 were interviewed on 10/21/50 by

SAS JOHN

FRANCIS CURRAN and FRANCIS I. LUNDQUIST. NY T-1 and

NY T-2 made it known to DIEGO DIAZ that they were anti-FIDEL

castro, and that they had information which they wished the

FBI to be cognizant of, and wished to make contact with agents

of the Bureau. On the basis of this, DIEGO DIAZ, who has

reliably cooperated with the NYO in the past on Cuban matters,

made arrangements so that NY T-1 and NY T-2 were present on

10/21/00, when SAS CURRAN and LUNDQUIST contacted DIEGO DIAZ.

The information furnished by NY I-l and NY I-2 is set forth

in attached menorandum for dissemination. At the conclusion

an or era Boto or.

of the interview, which had to be

terminated because LUIS

C*EU)

EUGENIQ GARCIA CELA had to report to work at the Cuban Consulate

n NYC, both Ny I-1 and NY I-2 said that they expect that ai

result of their activities, they would have additiona

information which they would want to convey to the Bureau, and

arrangements were made so that they could volunteer any

additional pertinent information which comes to their attention.

-3-

NW 64578 Docld:32337474 Page 4

---

## Page 5

The Bureau's attention is invited to New York letter

to the Bureau dated 9/28/60, captioned,

"LUIS EUGENIO GARCIA

CELA, AKA; PSI-CUBA,

and in view of GARCIA CELA's cooperativeness

in this instance, Bureau authority is requested so that

contacts with GARCIA CELA may be continued to further determine

his potential and possibility of development into a fsI. It is

to be noted that he advised that his son, LUIS LEONARDO

GARCIA

monales, intends to enter service with the U.S. Marine Corp:

sometime in November, 1960.($(4)

FRANCISCO MORALES LLANES, INS #A8574870, who states

he was born on 4/2/03, in Cuba, claims

he was Chief of the

Secret Police in Cuba from about 1946 to 1948 during the regime

Of GRAU SAN MARTIN.

The NYO 1s initiating a 134 case on

MORALES to ascertain his background and activities with objective

of possible development into a PSI on Cuban matters.

No effort

will be made by the NyO to direct the activities of MORALES

However, in the interin, the NYo will receive

any pertinent Information he volunteers. (DU

and disseminate

Miami is requested to check indices, INS, credit,

criminal and Cuban informants on MORALES, and to furnish the

NYO with any pertinent information that is developed on his

background and activities while he was in the Miami area.

to be noted that he

states he arrived in New York about 10 days

ago from Miami.

(v)

Miami will also follow and report on activities of

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, the FND, and CESAR FAES, and should

consider itself origin In these cases, inasmuch as SANCHEL ARANGO

and FAES

both reside in the Miami area. (W

The NYO will open cases on CESAR FAES and the FND,

and will furnish Miami any information available in NYO indices

of that comes available through sources on FAEs and the PND (D

The NYO will attempt to confirm through other sources

the information that OLGA BLANCA has resigned as Commercial

Attache at the Cuban Consulate in New York.

Unless advised to

the contrary by the Bureau, OLGA BLANCA will be interviewed by the

NYO if it is confirmed that she has so resigned, and in the

- 4-

NW 64578 Docid:32337474 Page 5

---

