# docid-32314927

## Page 1

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10338-10037

RECORD SERIES: KC

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-116-1556

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KC

TO:. HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/07/1962

4

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

INDEFINITE

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

6

NW 68262 Docld:32314927 Page 1

---

## Page 2

6/7/62

AIRTEE

AIR MAIL

TO:

DIRICTOR, FBI (62-9-23)

FROb:

SAG, RUNSAS CITY (02-539)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

KANSAS CITY DIVISION

(2)

===

Bc Kansas City airtel to Bureau 5/31/62.

Portinent inforation regarding Top Hoodlum figures

in the Renas City Division has been subaltted undor soperato

communications on a continuing bools.

Reairtel

• saflected FILIX FRiNA had surrondered to

the l.S. Larchal 80 begin serving a ten-year prison sontence

for conspiring to lill & Goverment marcotics intomer, BENNET

BRUCE SENSEE.

reason for this is not known to dute, hovever,

CapE. JOIN I.

rAVIN, Chlof of Dotoctives, Kansas City, 1o.

Police Bepartuent, advises that sources known to his have stated

highor-ups in the criminal organization in Eaross City

becone displeased by

FaRINA's failures in unaccessfully

executing individuale such as SuESTZ.

It is his bolder that

volunterily entered the usp to keep from being eliniated

by others or the Italian

criniral elenent.

CARL ANGELO DE LUNA, FBI 14121538, vas reporteary

innividual to succeed FIRINA as the executioner for the

inal olemont in Kansas City.

Ocher authorities, both local

and Pederal, have no information concorning this matter.

S. O. BcInoy, forner ganbler during the

PHIDENGAST eED

1n Kansas City, furnished Intomation concernin

the ganbling clonent in Kansas City,

80..

He stated thas Goos

BasKAs, who is associatod with ganbling in lot Springs,

Ark.

has, fron runors obtained by him, had daisieulty with

the

3 - Bureau

92-116-1556

4 Kansas

City

074: 2L0

(7)

(2-92- 659)

(1 92-116)

(1-92-848)

Searcheu

Serialized

Indexed

Filed!

NW 68262 Docld:32314927 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SC 93-650

Italian group because BESIAS had been "suinging", which expression

indicates he had been holding out some of the cabling money.

indicatos that loan oparations are being condueted by the

Italian crinimt organiaation.

The following is portinent, information received iron

KC 837-0%, since 5/29/62:

3/29/62:

MORRIS ENLIN indicates to one RUBY (IND) that

he haad

made recovations in Las Vogse for a Mr. and Hrs.

(ENU)

RUOSON.

5/32/62:

LEONAS CACIOPE, KORRIS KIRIN, S. C. RISHIAN DOrO BE

the Origionl Toy and Jobbing C0.

No pertinent infornotion.

6/1/52:

No

pertinent Intornation.

6/2/62:

NICHOLAS CIVILLA, AND THOMAS AND CHARLES CACIOPRE

had

conference at Original

Toy and Jobbing 60.

CACIOPIOS accused

CIVILLA of "not liking" thon and possing unfovorable infomation

concorning then, which CIVELLA denied. CIVIlIA atated THoMAS's

troubles stoned tron his gubling losses and other activities.

The CACIOrto brothers had apparontly visited an individual in

Chicago who refused to speak to them.

CIvEd stated that in all

his contacts throughout the country ho had emphasince the inct

that he should alwys bo contacted by telephone or othereise

prior to any visit to assuro hin it vas a legitimte vicit, and

not an informer or the 18..

le stated no had urged individuals

1n othes parts of the country to do likenise, and this parbapa

was the occasion in Chicago.

INDHAS CACIOPED OpIATOntLY PeOls

te not getting a full share of noney fron Clique activities.

KORRIS KLEIN and NICEDLAS CIVELLA had

finoncial discussion

In which noney is divided and a discuasion is had concerning tho

anout Of DODOy still owed bY DEAN (INU). It 10 belloved that

this 1a referring to DEINE SHAPIRO, DEOVIOUSLY montioned in these

NW 68262 Docld:32314927 Page 3

---

