# docid-32306692

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10332

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-2839-41

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: JOHNSON, GEORGE R.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/16/1958

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

JFC, INTV, RES, ASSOC, TRA, BUSS, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1b

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992/44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW/ 68262 Date: 09-22-2022

v9.1

NW 68262 Docld:32306692 Page 1

41

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

license number G34 716. Mr. BOYLAN advised that he saw these people in

this car on Main Street in Pittston at approximately 3:15 p.M.

On April 10, 1958, Mrs. ANNA DEHNER, Assistant Supervisor, Bureau

of Motor vehicles, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, advised that the

license number G34 716 was formerly the registration number of a Cadillac

coupe, but that on April 10

1959, it was transferred to a 1958 Oldsmobile

soupe, Serial Number 588 Wol 876, registered to irs. ANGELINE: LOQUASTO,

372 South Main Street, Pittston, Pa.

appeared before the SFGJ, Southern District of

during the week of

JER Law 10(a)2

The following is LOQUASTO's Identification Record under FBI

Number 389 359:

Contributor of

Fingerprints

SPol, Wyoming,

Pa.

Name and Number.

Arrested or Charge

Received

Disposition

MODESTO LOQUASTO

11/27/28 larceny of

not guilty

#2444

auto

AS MODESTO LAQUASTO, PD, Pittston, Pa., 11/27/29, larceny

of auto; nolle prossed, pay costs.

SP, Philadelphia, MODESTO LOQUASTRO;

6/19/31

robbery

3-6 yrs.

•Pao

#C-7182

USM,

Scranton,

Pa.

MODESTO LO QUOSTO

4/25/33

conspiracy

I yro prob.

#1567

SPolo, Wyoming,

Pa.

MODESTO LOQUASTO

#2W14

9/1/33

D.C.

30 days Lacka

Co. Jail

SPolo, Wyoming,

Pa.

MODESTO LOQUASTO

#2444

5/31/36

vio. Mann

Act

13

-

NW 68262 Docld:32306692 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

Contributor of

Fingerprints

St. Motor Police

Wyoming, Pao

Name and Number

SAMUEL STEVEN

DE BELLA,

#B-11937

Arrested or

Received

3/4/45

SPol Wyoming Pa.

SPol Wyoming Pa.

SAMUEL DE BELLA

#B-11937

SAMUEL STEPHEN

DE BELLA

#3-B-173

8/25/51

Charge

Disposition

robbery 1l to 22 mos

Luzerne Co Pr

Wilkes Barre Pa

on chg of armed

robb

gaming

fine & costs

dis

conduct

fine & costs

DAVE

ROBERTS

Confidential Informant I-6 advised SA WAYNE D. SMITH on March 4,

1958, that a telephone company employee in Hazleton, named MARGE HOOVER

told him she had a date with a man named (FNU) ROGERS in the early part

of February 1958.

HOOVER said ROGERS was staying at the Hotel Casey in

Scranton, Pa., and that she spent the night with him there after having met

him in the Orchid Club in Scranton.

The informant said according to

HOOVER, ROGERS was employed as a dress salesman out of New York City, and

during the course of the date he told her he was a good friend of RUSSELL

A. BUFALINO.

ROGERS also told HOOVER he did not believe BUFALINO would be

deported, and further, he was in Scranton since he expected to be interviewed

concerning BUFALINO by FBI Agents.

MARGE HOOVER also told the informant her date was prearranged by

CARVEN "HAM" CLEMENT, bartender at the Ovalon Club in Hazleton. She also

said ROGPS was snowbound at Genetti's Hotel in Hazleton during the snow-

storm the week end of February 18, 1958, and while there he called her and

wanted her to come out to the hotel and spend the night with him. She

stated she declined because of what he had told her about BUFALINO.

According to the informant, MARGE. HOOVE.

is a telephone company

operator who works split shifts, and on her nights off, she prostitutes.

He said she resides at 585 Manhattan Court, Hazleton, where she lives with

her mother and a ten year old daughter.

He stated she formerly worked as

a waitress in Yanuzzi's Cafe, West Diamond Avenue, Hazleton.

- 16

NW 68262 Docld:32306692 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-447

ADMINISTILA TIVE, PAGF,

Careful consideration has been given to protecting the

identity of the infurmants quited in this report by the use uf I

symbols. The Confidential Infurmants are identified as fullows:

T-1

SAMUEL A. KLUGER, Cashier,

First National Bank of yoming,

Wyoming, Pa.

T-2

CHARLES S. REMINGTON, Cashier,

The West Side Rank, West Pittston, Pa.

1-3

PH 521-C

T-4

T-5

T-6

T-7

T-8

T-S

T-10

PCI ORLANDO WENCHI

PH 526-C

PH 454-C

MiSS LELIA FATTON, Supervisor,

Bell

Telephone Company of Pennsylvania,

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

MISS THENTSA DOUGHERTY, Supervisor,

3e11 Telephone Conpany of Pennsylvania,

Philadelphia, Pa.

FRANK SHEPARD, former PCI.

• JAMES VALIACE, Manazer, Bell Telephone

Company of Pennsylvania, Scranton, Pa.

- 64

-

ADMINISTRATIVE, PAGE

NW 68262 Docld:32306692 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

ADMINIS IRATIVE, PACE (CONTINUED)

T-11

FCI MARION KAARNEY, 161 South

Main Street, Pittston, la.

T-12

FRED A. MANAGE, Cashier, Liberty

National Bank, Pittston,

Fa.

T-13

PAUL LEVAN, resident, First National

3ank uf Pittston, Pittston, Pa.

CONFIDENTIAL INFORM/ NTS

The following informants will continue to be utilized in

order to develop information concerning the subject's activities:

PH 454-C

PCI ORLANDO MENCHI

PH 526-C

PH 521-C

PCI MARION KEARNEY

In addition to the above, an interview with. AL FRTO STOCKER,

16 George Street, Pittston, la., alleged girlfriend uf the subject,

is contemplated and depending upon the results uf this interview,

efforts will be made to convert her into a criminal informant.

Contact will be maintained with MANGATET HOOVEn, 585 Manhatten

Court, Hazleton, Pa. In the event Mrs. HOOVER continues to have

contact with DAVE ROIERTS, she will be cunverted into a PCI and

instructed to make effort to becume acquainted with subject BUFALINO

and his friends and associates.

'FRANK PULKA, Iroprietor, Club Francois, Dallas, Pa., is a

brother of ANTHONY FOLICAlE, who is currently bein= utilized by the

Albany Office. Efforts will ke made to develo! FRANK PILKA into an

informant of the Philadelphia Office.

- 65 -

ADMINISTRATIVE TAGE (CONCLUJED)

NW 68262 Docld:32306692 Page 5

---

