# docid-32248466

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/21/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10080-10024

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 008533

Released under the John F. Kenhedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:N

69261 Date: 09:01-2022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

IRS

BRADEN, JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/24/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 156.

v9.1

NW 68261 Docld:32248466 Page 1

---

## Page 2

008638

AUTHORIZATION FOR RELEASE OF

TAX RETURNS, TAX RETURN INFORMATION

AND INVESTIGATIVE DATA

V.B

I, James Braden, hereby authorize the release.

by the Internal Revenue Service of all tax returns, tax

return information, and investigative data in the possession

of the IRS

which pertains to myself, for the years 1958-

1968.

The above materials which I authorize to release.

should include the complete tax returns, tax return informa-

tion and investigative data pertaining to myself.

During

the years 1958-1963, my legal name was

Eugene Hall Brading.

My

name was legally changed to James

Braden in September, 1963.

This release is authorization

for all the named files concerning Eugene Hale Brading as

well as James Braden.

The above information may be disclosed to all members

on the staff of the Select Committee on Assassinations, and

the Members of that Committee, including but not limited

to Messrs..

Donald Purdy, John Hornbeck, James McDonald,

Ma chirae

eng, Ralph Salerno, James Wolf, Ann Taylor, Howard

Shapiro, Leslie Wizelman and

Mark Flanagan.

My current address is:

3224 Peachtree Road, N.E.

Atlanta, Georgia 30305

My social security No. is 510-09-4923

rames

Braden

Braden

Dated:

May 16,1978

NW 68261

Docld: 32248466 Page 2

---

