Date
Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

01/20/98
1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM/CSF

i 194-10004-10162

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
PAGE 460

ORIGINATOR
FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: USA

[ RESTRICTED ]
[ RESTRICTED ]
11/29/66

1
FROMER,

DAVID REED
SUBJECT INTERVIEW
SECURITY FORMS
CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: UNCLASSIFIED

3
RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
03/07/95

382 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Caset}Nw

\ Nw 64954 Docld:34528609 Page 1



1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED
FECMER, Cavid Reed : 29 November 1966
SSve Registrant, SSNdrx Act 5 i) 12 ‘3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER.
DUB: 21 July 1942.

boB: Chicago, Illinois

“REPORT OF FINDINGS

(SUBJECT INTERVIEW) On 21 November 1966, Vavid Reed FROMER, Student
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, with residence at 140 Langdon
Street, Madison, and with permanent. mailing address at Khonda Way, Mill Valley,
California, was contacted at the Armed Forces Entrance ant Examination Station.
15U9 @lay Street, Cakland, California. It was explained to FROMER that it is
the policy of the Department of the Army to interview all persons who refuse to {
Cill out their DU Form 98, Fersonnel Security Questionnaire, and qualify their |
Lu Form 398, Statement of Fersonal History, at the time they are called upon for
processing unter the conscription laws of the United States. SUBJECT was informed |
that the purpose of the interview was to give HIM the Opportunity to furnish an |

t
|
|

explanation cencerning HIS reasons for refusing to fill out and qualify the

above mentioned forms and to furnish any additional information which might be

\ useful in making a determination of HIS case. FROMER was advised of HIS rights

! under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and Article

j 31, Uniform Code of Military Justice. HE was further advised of HIS right to

{ lecal counsel concerning the interview. FROMER refused to be interviewed under

if oath or nake any statement concerning the above mentioned forms based upon HIS

rights uncer the First and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United

States. SUBJECT only stated that BE had formerly made application for conscientious |
objection, that HIS right of appeal had been denied by the United States District
Court on 13 Ceteber 1966, and that IIS lawyers had initiated action to have the
appeal hear¢ by a higher court. SUBJECT further indicated. that HE did not wish

to make a statement because HIS personal attorney, Peter*Franck, a family attorney, # 4
Vincent Hallinan, were not availabke at this time to speak in HIS behalf. :

AGENT'S NOTES: SUBJECT is presently enrolled at the University of

| Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, and will not be available for further contact in
this area. [HGUER declined to sign a statement in verification of the opportunity
given HIM to be interviewed concerning HIS qualification of DU Form 398 anG refusal
to fill out Ly Form 98.

'S. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT %. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

ERIC B, MCKNICRT, 115th MEL Gp (1) 4ED Ere a wesc sick
1 DA 8 BAT ersces vo aco rome a4, 10 a7, wc ma a8 us. y
Zag Senne

NW 64954 Docld:34528609 Page 2

