# 104-10187-10019

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10187-100,19

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

•.!.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

CLASSICA'N

PALCESSIME ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

10

Chlor, hi Division

XX

INO.

care of seatron, Maloo are I

LIENPTY Projoct Renoval

ACTION REQUIRED -REFERENCES

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLT QUALIFIED DESK

CAN MOVE INDEXING

MICROFILA

under protect atten 30 lo to l out or a boat and

Project LEMPTY.

•2. It 18 roquested that Projoct LIENPTY do renoval for the period

1 December 1964 through 30 Noreabor 1965 for the assount of $45,300,

0f th1s

total, $27,675 should do alloted for FY 1965 and $17, 625 for FY 1966.

fi WILLAN C. CURTIS

RSERKDS OFFICER STAMP

The felicita,

rachariass:

Attachments

Loft hand side h/v

Right hand side use

8.0. 12- are 4//8"

Note: It in traction,

cite

reasons the coordinato

It appropriate.

Distr1but10n8

• C/NED w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

¡ DISPATON SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

1991A -24650

LASIICATION

50-6-74/1

DATE

29 October 1964

MOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/1

IM/2

---

## Page 2

14-00001

I.

REQUEST FOR RENEMAL

PROJECT I.IPAETY

CURRENT OBVELYVES AND RELATED PROJECE ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

1h0 orerall objoctive-of tha LIMPTY projoct activity lo to colloct

operational information on the LINERICK installation and poreonnel, as volt

as rolated targots of opportuntty, through stationary and mobilo photo-

graphia and payaical survelilanco coverage. Corollary objoctives maica aro

to be fulfilled through the une of the LINTY Installationa and paracanal

aro as tallores:

facilitios and toltors to the premisos.

?) To colloct operational Information portaining to othor targote ol

opportunity, other official Installations, and persons of Intalligeno.

Intoreat operating in Hoxico.

3) To provido operational support and other protective serrices to Statior

personnal and oparations as nay be desmod necessary.

Pronty A, section 1, subsection e

Priosity a, section 2, subsection e

@it 1-H998-24651

franework of the aboro cited objectives and the Related Misalon Diractivo.

Spec1i1c examples of LIEMPTY progress, accoupliahments anil contributions by

1) LINTED

Throughout the roporting porlod, until operational activity vas toralnated

nd the photographic equipment evacuated fron the Minust basanoise a

6 September 1964 (because of security implications stouming fron ta

reloase of the Marren Coumission report, soo Soction II, CHANGES),

the

LIMITED Installation providod dally photographie coverago and paysical

surveillanco of the main gato of LIMERICK installation during too artarnoon

and early oroning hours. The Station considers the LINtED photograpalo

21.2et*96y

1911: 1:9 2.8701.

матідs.""

50-6-34/1

CS COFY

---

## Page 3

4-00000

coverago an essential and rollablo toal fos fallowing tha dally activitios

of the target parsonial ant the arrival enl departuro of vostors, sone of

ubom have bean PERIEs. In addition, the LINITED installation providod

a fIxod radto dispatch base for the LIsMiRlS toan.

Bocause of the

astronoly tight decurity. commures Inatitutal by tho local socuirty farcos

in the immediate rainity of tho LINERICT Inotallation, stakoouta by tho

24 lunslateral ourvalllance toen aro procludol. Hoverer, ulth LIMITED

personnel dispatchins the team: trou positioos rovorod pron the protoctive

socurity rins, onto targoto departine the lostallation, survelllanco

corerago 1s mado posa bio.

2) LILYRIE

Tho LILYRIC Installation also provided photosraphlo and fixod violal sur

Toillanco of the front of tho LIMERICK Installatiun throughout the period

undor review, during the sorting and carly a ternoon hours.

This photo-

graphle coverase and the writtan logs of the norewant of LIMERICK

personnel preparal by luLYRIC personnel, caploments the LINITED comerago

used by the station in Its XUDESK operations spainst the LIMERICK target

and has been judgod to do of equal quallty ast rallo to the LINTED

coverago.

3) INICATIA

The LICALLA Installation continued to provido corerage of the back of

the LIMERICK Installation, tho gardon, and petio ares where many of the

personnol and their failles congregate. this coverago gives the Station

Its roal Inaight into the LINERICK target anl pronides a largo part of tha

Information on which the Station basas 1ts Identification of LINERICK

stattors, their rant int positiono, the startlas ostinates, and the

Intalligance connections. of tho varlous officaro.

In addition somo

information of LAURITiS inturest 18 proridad by LICALIA (D00 paragraph 2,

soctIOn I Of HM11-24235 datöd 2 September ISát for further dotallo),

4) LIONTRAP

A groatly incroaded una of the LIENTRAP unlt vas evidenced throughout

the porlod under revier. Tuls asset was employed extensirely for photo-

sraphie coverago of POM Hesiquarters, tho PCH Homen'& Congreas, the booes

o5 POM nombors and the rasidencos of foralen Countst extlos in Maxico.

Much of this corerago vas in support of past or planed recruitment

"valuablo" part as thair errart.

Iu/2

---

## Page 4

PHOTO COVERAOR - DENERAL

Durins the f month pertod fron 1 November. to 1 August 1964; the LISMPTY

profect producod approxtuately T70 rolla of operationn) still photographs,

of which 595 rolls voro direatly concorned ith the LIMPRICK target.

This

coverage, linkod with the dally loge kopt by the baschoun. kaopers of the

activition of the LINERICK personnel, while contimually contributing to

the station's regular CE offort, has bein particularly effective during

crists tines such: ae tho OPHLOOR investigations: Mailo the photographlo

coverage in used almost arclusively for Station operations in the LIMERICK

aroà, LIENPIY has also provided diroct support to other operetione such as

providing verification of a double agent'a visite to the LiNERICK

Installatlon.

6) eliTer de SCANTINO

During the parlod 1 December 1963 through 30 August 1964, long-term Station

asset,. Oliver Q. SCANTLINO (ps) contimed as the cutout to the LINITED

baseboise, and made bia regular contribution as the altornato contact of

LICASA-I In thia sensitIve LAURICLE operation, SCANILIND also performad

numerous pretatt Investigations, serviced accommodetion addresses, and

preparad formal casing reports..

Of particular significance vere

02.:

SCANTLINO'a regular checks of the accoumodation address usod in the

sensitivo AMPULsE loperation,

the thorough Investigation of a former

-Ol [oralesent of Interest to KUBARK, and dotalled casinge of the Chinese

Communist Pair. (Soo also Section VI, PLANS, fOS SCANTLING's future

operational assigment).

7)

Raywond He GERENDE

During the period under review, HERENDE contimiod in his assignment so

the station cutout to the LILYRIC and LICALLA basehouses, the LIENTRAP

unit and as the processor of the raw photographic take, and with the

ásaistanco of LIENPTY-10, continued to provide and sorvice the majority

of the accoumodation addressos used by the Station.

The contributions

made prineipally. by GERENDE (and to a limitod extent by SCANTLINO) to the

BansItIvo AMROD oparation can accurately bo describod as unique and

ossential to the success of that operation. Although this actlvlty 18

necessarily a Headquarters directed effort, the local contributions of

OBRENDE and SCANMINd are Intestel ingredients of that oporation.

D. 'It vill ba noted froli tha above samplos of LIEMPTY contributions to the

Station's progress towards fulfillment of the portinent soctions of the

Related MissIOn Directivo, that notwithstanding their demonstrable value

and importanco, these, contributions actually represent only a portion of

the setivity directed towards the fulfillment of each objoctive. Therefore,

any precise measurement of project progresa 1a precluded.

However, based

on the performance and overall contributions of the LIEMPTY projoct during

the past project year, the Station concludes that this projoct 10 essential

to the fulfillnent of the Ralated Mission Directivo and must be continued

during the forthconing project year.

IM/2

---

## Page 5

14-00000

II.

CHANGES

'A)

On 24 Septembor 1964, the Station vas Informed by Fondquartero that a

LaViTY projact photograph uhich vas one of savoral suppliad to tho largon

Commission In Novembor 1003, vould bo published in that Commiesion's forma)

ovart report: since LIbRICK officials vould undoubtadly be ablo to

rocognisa tho individual in tha photographo an a viaitor to thols

Installation and with a vlor tovards the atterdant possible socurity problems,

tho LANTED, LILYRIC, End LICALLA aparationa voro susponded on 26 and 27

Septenbar and all photographic

and othor compromising agulpaant sas oracuatod

sos these bassholass: All basehouse personnel vere briafod in genoral on the

situation and specifically on bov to cope ulti any possiblo inquirios fron

covortment offlolale or LINERICK Inapirod of promptod nousson.

Crayloto

onergancy communications systomé yore arranged for all basehouse persornol,

Raymond H, GERINDE and OLIvor O. SCANILINO. Upon rocolpt by tho Station of a

copy of the photograph, It vas dotermined that the LIMIYED basonouso had

providad the photogripa in question..

This considoration, linkod with further

analysis of tho l1nitätions upon any countaractions avallablo to LItrICK

ofticials, allowod the station to re-sotivato the LILYRIC And LICALLA bases

on a phased basla in aarly Octobar 1964. However, becauss LIMITED vas tho

arisingtor of the to be-published photograph and due to the ago and dotorio

ratol condition of the LINIMSD property (ornod by KUBARK), Station Mexico

CIty did not reactivato LIMMED and presentod to Roadquartors a plan for tha

domalition of the presant IMMED structure vith recommondations for tho

construction of. a new building complex. (Soo MIXI 1307 datod 20 Octobor 1964

for additional dotallo).

In accoriance vith paragraph 2 of HMfi-12297 datod 28 January 1964, thia

value and productivity of all assets undor Projoct LIEMPTY vas closoly

raviovod agalnat the necessary socurity and efficioncy roquiroments.

It vas

detorained that LIENPIY-I2 asl LTENPTY-8 could bo torainated Without causing

intolerablo sapa in operational coverago or an unacceptablo docreaso in

Both LIENFTY-12 and LJEMPTY-8 were torminatod on 30 June 19643

at the sano time, lu kooping with the ODYOKE economy program, a further affort

was ands to roduce the costs of this project by placing LIENPTY-19 on an

hourly rato for work perforiod for the station.

C)

On 30 Soptember 1964, the fald Case Officer rosporalbility for Project

III. ERFDMYIVENESS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

In the opinion of station officora soo use the LIlitY photographio product or

rocolto LIBPTY operational support, thia project has responded most satisfactorils

to tho soodo and inquiroments.

IVO PROBLEMS

A) lie only major oparationel/security prodleminich contranted projoct LIMPTY

turing the pariod under revlow vere the security implications atoming inor the

rolesis of the orert Herren Consisalon roport, (See paragraph II, Section A).

Tho procios danage occastoned locally by the report, cannot do unasurod until

the ald-November release of the repart annex containing the actual LDil

phorograph. During the interla perlod, the evergency contret systore aro

belas saintainod ln readiness, the corer storios of all personal inrolved

hare been parlovod and strengthenal, and no undue concern has been displayou

by any of the projoct personal.

Potential Station countarueasures. to tho

PABElblO LIRICK renotion to the publlention of the subject photograph vero

outliaod In NBXI-1018 datad 25 Septomber 1964.

B) No usual personnal problems hare srison and the averall portormanco of all

agarts cornected with thls projact bas been satisfactory.

V. LIAISON AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

Not. agplicable.

VI. PLANS.

A) Too future of tha LIMITED basebouss, proparty and personnel vill be detorminod

within the near futuro.

(Sea Section 2, subaection a), Station bas acquirod

anotizes ajartuent on a temporary basis in the LILYRIC complax to replaco tho

1OBS Of LINITED coverage and 1t vill be activated after the acquisition and

clearesco of basebouse keepero.

08

B No basie changes are contenplated in either the administration or operation

of the LICALLA or LILYRIC bases.

• corsrago of solected LIMPRICK parsonnel engaged in conversation in the

garden area in an itteupt to obtain fila which sill land Itsalf to lipreading

by Beadquartors' spocialists.

C) The station plans to maintain the increased level of LIENTRAP operational

actirity, with this asset being targotted in the neer futuro agalnat the

Partido Popular Socialiata (PPS) la support of the Station's now PPS

penetration program.

Brioctive on 1 September 1964, Sayeend H. CERENDE aammed the cutout role

and responsibility for the LIMITSD basebous? in addition to his other

perational duties outlined in Saition I.. No other basio operational or

adadnistrative changes are plarsal "or GRENDE for the ensuing poriod.

B) The resoval of Oliver d. SCANMIU as the cutout to the bitual beachouse

vas, a result of the recent desta of his wife, his pending trip to (apan as

a feaber of the Mexican Olyiple tossy and the Station's desiro to give

nore operational responslbility to Reyond H. GERENDE. After SCANTLIND'B

---

## Page 7

14-00000

-6

P)

roturn fros Japan, do vill esouro operational dutlos and raspons1b1l1t10a 1n

an activity not connocted with Project LIEMPTY. Thereforo, salary and

operational expenses sor SCAMMLINO aro programmod for six months only.

Other thAn presented abore, Maxico City Station plans no othor a1gnlf1caint

profost changes since it 1s felt that this projoct in now oporating at 1ta

Justification for the retention of three basohouses vas

projost organization and assets.

VII, COSTS (ALL SIgUrOS aTe dOllaTo, U. S.)

1) Past Projoct Yoat - Station rocords Indicate that Project LINPTY expended

$35,952.78 during the poriod 1 December 1963 through 30 Soptember 1964.

Approximataly $1,000 will be expended during the remainder of the prosent

project year.

It 1s estimatod that approximataly 20 hours of caso officor

timo per voos 1a necessary to satisfectorlly fulfill the operational,

adminiatrative and analytical requirenents of this projoct.

B1-vookly

accoutings with rocaipts and/or certifications are subuitted by Raymond H.

GERENDE and Oliver O. SCANTLINO to the Station Pinance Officer, via the

case officer for all Project LIIMPTY expenditures.

B)

Ensuing Project Yoar - Projoct LIEMPTY uas programmed for $60,000 for the

forthcoming projoct yoar..

Due to the Station's economy measures, however,

only $45,300 1s roquestod for the ensuing year. Of this amount,

$27,675 v11

Do expended in PY 1965 and 197,625 1n FY 1966. A detailod breakdown of

projoct expenditures follows:

Salarios (Inoluding Carlotnas bosas)

BY 65

FY 66

Raywond H. OSRENDE

011ver O. SCANTLIND for 6 monthe

LIDMPTY-4 (photo lab)

LLEMPTY-5 (photo lab)assistant)

LIEMPIY-6 (LIMITED basehouse keeper

LIEMPTY-7 (LIMITED a881stant

LIEMPTY18

LIEMPTY-9 (LICALIA basebouse kooper)

LIOMPTY-10 (LIENTRAP oporator)

LIEMPTY-11 (LIENTRAP assistant)

LIEMPTY- 12

LIEMPTY-13 (LILYRIC basehouse keeper)

LIEMPTY-14

(LILYRIC assistant)

LIEMP1Y-19 (Typist)

Temporary basehouse keeper

LIEMPTY-24 (LICATIA assistant)

$6,500

3,260

2,400/

1,100

3,700 /

nO BALATY

Terminated 1 July 1964

3,600

4,400

2,500

Terminated 1 July 196

2,00

2,000

2,000

2,000

no salary

$35,360

I21, 760

33,600

---

## Page 8

14-00000

-7-

FY 65

i

F$ 66

Yehlete Maintenance

NY 2606, 2284, 2279

Beal Estate (rent, ut1l1t1es)

LIMMIND

LILYRIC

LICALLA

Photo lab

1. 00

$3,300

1,600

200

56,600

3, 190

33,850

SOLO

52,750

Pauloment

Maintenance and replacement of

photo equipaents film purchaso

$500

$ 500

$ 375

$ 125

Operational Expense

PO Box rontal; vehiclo rontal

$ 840

$ 80

$ 500

$ 340

TOTAL.

$45,300

$27,675

$27,625

OERENDE's Christmas bomus, the temporary basehouse keepers' salaries, and ta

hoto lab rent, are included in Projoct LIBPTY for the Mret time)

VII. EMPRONCY CONDITIONS

addition the emergency contact plans for the WMMED, LILYRIC and WClA baso

house: keepers wore expanded and refined during the "erlaid" outlined in pars-

grapa II, Section A.

Att -1-1 11 008 - 2465-0

ES COPY

56-6-7411

---

