# 104-10186-10391

## Page 1

104-10186-10391

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• л

-199

ISPANCI

SACRIT

I surizi?

Chef of Tiar,

Dancelona 52 MICROFILLE

you tests-birdies

Chlof oi

Station

Chict of station,

Mauriely.

dui.:

MUSIVE

Oporation Division 15-21 LOO MIGHT BER

Earlon lette to trans on Manuel Muo spuno e

Maran

• € 187

15-27

During.

o recent trip to Barcelona!

the CoB request

E stons from ilendquarters:

Traces on fnu ESTEVEz Pero% (identifled as the

Cuban Consul (oncrali

Carcolonn): Hoadquarters revoals

that this is lanucl ESTEVEZ PorEz (201-333003)

formorly

first secretarj at the Cuban Enbassy in liadrid fron 19G2

to 1963: lic is ñ174 on tho Cuban Watchilst.

othor.

Infornation irailable st Hcadquarters follows.

10 November 1922, CubA

WIFE: S11a HERNANDEZ LeOn

rassport 's:

Reported as D/G0/515 and D/62/386

Education:

Poorly educated and uncultured

Background:

Reported to be an activo membor of

the Cuban Communist Party.

Hes worked as a movio

extra and apparently belonged to the Cuban Artists

activities from 1900 to 1963 aro

1960.- Reported to he going to Mexico on a

propaganin aission.

August 1060 was icported to bc

Ist Socretary at tho. Cuban Embassy, Prague.

this same tour of duty he served as

a diplomatic courier

betreen Pragua and Cologno and as a special courier

ins Cuban missions in Hestorn

reportod to

be the "strong han" at the Cuban Enlassy

rathor tha: the ambassador.

(2) .

1903 - first Secretary, Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

Respousible for political and propaganda matters and

Communist. Party contacts,

for caiting the inbassy

newspaper Boletin, and apparently was also responsible

for the cose rovil.

Travollod as Diplont in July 1952

from france to Spain (IN 33884, July 1902).

-6

EROSS GUERENCE TO

DISPATEN SYAIBOL AND NUMBER

•:.

1. 201-303002-

SEE SAICION

SÜ•CRET

HES FILE NUMBER

19 - 6 - 102/3

F 21 June 1965 5610

1

1

àci.

RID

201-333602

HI/ C/ESEC

WE/5/S

- NE/Registry

-

(Mi, C/FI

12. 5

Ni:

22

618R

---

## Page 2

1?.

1:0n - lade a trip to rmisels

and iris,

leaving mold on 22 barel aüd reirain: on the

ith of tres; purpose of trip unitori.

issured the

mei at crul at the Caban

consuinto in lacerlon.,

micedaro a fucumber 10dr.

in April l0ờt

to Caba

and suen returned to darin. (is 15096, april J0uo)

to cuba.

1) Rest also tar acid be farciled from Seale

Lebruary 1954

IsTEVa's reported duties as soccial courier

control

of. the coic room indicates enplogront is the

Intelligenée survico according

Culan

to inferation llas. has

reccived

(It 1s

forward

siltasted that Mauris

15-2

and local traces wilch add

toropoing

?..

Please query assluGgl on EstaiRE cad the above

inforintion and forrari to addressees.

Distilbution:

Attachnente:

15-27

- 5-2

ás statei

-

5/BR

---

