# 104-10408-10078

## Page 1

nanna

1104-10408-10078

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 -

• LONS ВТОКА, ОНО, СНАМЬ

AICHAROBON PRETEN, NE.

78-0070/18

WALTRA I, FAUNTROY, DE

NET. CONN

YVONNI ERATIMATE MUNKA, CAL IN.

СИТТОРНЕЙ 1. ДООО, СОЙ

HAROLD L. POTO, TEMM,

FLOTO I. MITHIAM, IND

RODIRT У. ОО, FA.

(202) 223-4528

Selert Committee on Assassinationg

#.5. House of Biepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OPTICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D. Co 20515

FEB 211978

Mr.

Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505:

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with the investigation of the House

Select Committee On Assassinations into the death of Presi-

dent John i. Kennedy, I am writing to request that by March

Li 1978, the Central Intelligence Agency provide a statement

explaining in detail the reasons for which a 201 file may be

opened.

This statement should address the following possible

criteria, individually or in any combination, as well as any

other possible criteria not specifically listed:

1.

Possible and actual sources of intelligence

information;

2. Possible and actual intelligence agents, assets,

or contract employees;

3. Travelers, particularly travelers to communist

or unfriendly countries;

4. Individuals who defect or have attempted to

defect to communist or unfriendly countries;

5. U. S. servicemen or former U. S. servicemen who

pose counterintelligence dangers by revealing,

offering to reveal, or threatening to reveal

military or intelligence secrets

to communist or

unfriendly countries;

6.

Individuals whose

suspected counterintelligence

activities precipitate changes in United States

military or intelligence codes, methods, sources

or procedures;

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Page Iwo

7. Individuals who have been contacted by communist

or unfriendly intelligence organizations or in-

strumentalities thereof;

Individuals who have received money or other

items of value from communist or unfriendly

governments or instrumentalities thereof, and

533:

9. Possible and actual foreign intelligence agents

or employees:

agents se

Please address this statement to the time period 1958-

1964 in particular, and indicate whether there were any

changes in such criteria during these years.

Finally, would

you please specify in your response under which criteria..or

combination of criteria, if any, the opening of a 201 file

was considered to be mandatory during this period.

Sincerely!

1. Note i Belie

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ng]

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

e: +51-59116

once 0070.

DO/ISS 28-098

28 February 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

0/ SA/ DO/0

Attention: Mr. Shepanek

William F. Donnelly

Chief, Information Services Staff

House Select Committee on Assassinations

Request for Information on 201 Criteria (S)

OLC 78-0070/19, 23 February 1978

1. (S) With reference to the conversation of

27 February between Mr. Shepanek and Mr. Cleffi of ISS,

an one rude re the lie i let on guare 7, 2960.

HSCA Staff has led us to conclude that the most complete

and effective way to respond would be by inviting the

Staff to review our regulation governing the criteria for

opening, maintaining, controlling and closing 201 files

by the Operations Directorate.

A careful reading of the

regulation provides

an answer

every question posed by

the Staff.

(S) The earlier version of the regulation is

version provides

an

expansion, clarification and refinement

of the

earlier

versions.

Willam 7. Damulle

William F. Donnelly!

SECRET

f...

1r 2 mnt or 1: 015866

---

## Page 4

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III

15 November 1974

ANNEX B

THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-I, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-

terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent

information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying

subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for

producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-

tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify

opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-

zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-

spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each

individual in the system to serve as identifying file humber for reporting on that

individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form

831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-

sonal history, current status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record; a machine record generated by the opening of

a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and

stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved' for special listings.

d. Main. Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply tó an

Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent

within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref.

erence consolidated.

23

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SWORE

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

O02 CHO DOE LEAN FEARLETON

CIT GERM

REF AACD-12345, 20 JUN 33

SUBJECT RECENTLY ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL

CONFERENCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISS

AND PHARMACISTS HELD IN MUNICH, GERMANY PROM 22 THROUGH

29 OCTOBER.

o Nor 10

0083353%

201-0Q32671

TYPE MAME

53

Information About Subject

I. Sequeuce Number and Name

2. Sex and Date of Birth

3. Citizenship

4. Place of Birth

5. Occupation

8. Occupation Code

7. Text

Document Reference Date Group

8. 201 Number.

9. Name Type Indicator

10. O1 Codes

11.. Record Date (year only)

12. Reference

ISC Control Information

13. Date of latest update of the record

14. STAR Index Record Number

24•

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

stener

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

e. Ol Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-

sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual

with organizations or activities of operational interest. OI codes cover intelli-

gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, or known or

suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest There are two categories of OI

codes for use by components:

(1) general Ol codes (Attachment 4)

(2) O1 codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services

or other specific organizations.

A component may request an Of code be established by submitting a mem-

orandum to the DDO/RMO. through the component Records Management

Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned tivo OI codes. An Ol code may be assigned

when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see

paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added

at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201

personalities by OI codes. For example, if an 01 code has been opened for the

security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members

of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on

names or other identifying information of personalities or whom 201 dossiers

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-

ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates

a master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing

of a 201 clossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISC. 201 dossiers may be

opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapter II of this

handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information

will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on

persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-

sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those

persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals

are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff:

employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25

SECRET

-

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk

and on whom no DO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO |

records systém and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-

ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose

names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201

dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-

proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested

for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-

tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than

denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Inder search reveals information in five

or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/

ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 20l file by filling out and submitting

a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-

tenance Section (IP/R:MS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the

master 201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign-

ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample

201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field

station may request the opening of a 201. file by writing 201- in the Head-

quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the

subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening

is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by

placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN

will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-

bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of

201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26

SEC

CRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into

his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through

a name trace or other process, i.e, review of predecessor documents, it must

be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation

procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

2. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and

handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and Il.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

• l. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the

subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which

have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which

have not. Record documents may range frum newspaper or magazine articles

on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

26.1

стерет

---

## Page 9

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER ILI, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

2. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires

discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the

simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take

place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done

periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should

be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, ie., exact copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for

the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information i

a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number

then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(B) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch

cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information

contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is

by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier

forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention

in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized

officer in the originating office or the Hecords Officer having jurisdiction

over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification

authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained

at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained

in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a

cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location

of the TS document.

• (9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.

In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECREF

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER ILI, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash

number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier: If they are

to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification

into that 201.

(3) Field index cards (beld by some desks) and area desk cards may

be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards

should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201.

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff

employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to

the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be

closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true

name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest

should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material

has been gurged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified

to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an

OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and

Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing

to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)

containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201

should be sent to. IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document

for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic

document to IP/AN for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document

remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document

in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P8L,

or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will

automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-

tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the

file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-

tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).

26.3

SECRET

$

---

## Page 11

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER ILI, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be

handled as restricted dossiers.

(Il). An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201

dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a

... Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below..;

UNCLASSIFIED HO

• sanamu "

ROUTING AND RECORD SHETT

TRANSHIMAL O' MAGNITE 201 DOSATERS

18/71228

66-32

551-417

(Por puldence zon CSEB T0-}-1,

парчаг [ІІ, Ладах в.)

T0200(6) +-05_1020066)

от 201._

→ Restricrod Dossier

(Aeceas Pora 2021 to

Donator)

Hon-Rantrlerad DORALRE

FOr SpLIE Charga DoRelara:

13 documarts prior to T802a

."

Portarded to IP/P1la8, All

documents arter (80ça).

satalged at.

-

• :.

BIDE

I SEE CONCOCT b

O UNCLASSIFIEB

28.4

SHeRE.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any

period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk

officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.

Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-

ability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.

TO:

shan pluded lo

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY

Madder

COMPARENT

поот

Ints 1s to notify you that secountability or the docubens(s) and/or filels) cited

below has been trans!erred to you by:

D0006

100.

Acsordeslie you have any quantiona regarding this transfer.

I?'s recorda nou reflect you as the custodian. Please contact It, files,

Эхе. 4362,

SUDIRET iN REQUEST

POLE D0.

PCOM

пта. но.

1193977 0

[CL 8r. 007673

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action

Roquet (airy 313 a chued the netion det design i to inshin that che

for his component.

T. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the

desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201

Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.

26.5

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER LI, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge

from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being

returned to Central Files for rétention, a File Restriction Notice (romm

2021) must accompany the dossier.)

mire The date a to rest a catal a by auto

BATE

INITIALS

IP/PI

00-52

TUBE DT-6

IP/DCU

CC LO TUBE ET-L

FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE

ACTION DESK:

L. TO TASTILET A ILLA, COUPLATO BOCELOR A (BIGRATUTE OF B.O, BOt

2.

посевавгу):

To canary rectriction, complace Saction 3 11.0 algaature

SPEYNOILA

RESTRICT TO: (URO COUntsY OF DOn-COuatTy code number. See CSI 70-28)

RESTRICIED BY: _

COMPONENT:

_ Date:.

SPANAL B

REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTORIZED BY).

COMPONENT:

195, 2021 da

ЗАНСЛЮЕАТИМ

„Date:.

8.0. Хо..

12, WrONT C. or. 00747?

76888

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the

personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request

for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier

held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple

routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file

to the requester or deny the request and retura the dossier to Central Files. The

desk will notify the requester of a denial.

c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted

dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that

desk by Central Files.

26.6

SECDIT

mini des at

---

## Page 14

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the

subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the

requester will be referred to the restricting desk.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201

file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned, Requesters should

supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by

telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the

information by reture call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge

Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must bu listed and sent

by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after

appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will

destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and

number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder

will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit

(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names

and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of

interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its

alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening

the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request

(Form 831) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)

blank, use the non-country code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate

pennanent charge to the responsible desk. The only listing which will include the

201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are

categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's

interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

PUT A CHINA

Crun

3107

CHEM.

S0401

SHEU

SHOU

C18s.

С118,Г.0

30001

C1108

снецо.

с8070.

4.

Снов

СИГА

20800000003

an unreader

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER IIL, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201: Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The

standard listings available are:

i.

310-"71) Alphabetical by sumame, leading to a 201 number;

(2). Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number;

.""

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 rumber;

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.

FRRATTORGANIZATTON INTERNAL USE OMLY

НАЧЕ

MAME

at. CIT.

"CHINT

OtAT

BUSD

DIPT

AKER

80701

mis

РДОК

ARMY

TSEA

CCOMP

CHIRP

CHAT

CHAT

CCON

СВАТ

CHINT

СеСя

CHIM?

CHINT

201

01-8

int

193У

CHIN

CHIM

EnG.

LIBI

88*

1881

CHIN

181

+582590139428

BAC?

ESPER

ISMAYE

SON,

0N00000000110

CHIN, A

40т

сній,

FURIEN,

PROv.

сизы.

PAЖIШАIЛ, PGRT ARTN

СНіМ

CANTO

LIACHITS PRO

FCKIER

СНІН•

ВВАНСВІЙС

PRCY

CHIM, HIJAM TAMO IS

СНІМ, КЛАКСТИНС

CHIM FURIER

ANANGIUTG

СНІМ «РОССИГИ

OPER

MIN. FANG CHAM

CHIN

«TAROSU

котьтис расу.

TUME

FUKIEN

DEOV

CHAiIG

SHOU

-HIn, HanG CHICA

стог

FIM

CHIN.

НЬЄМаТИГО

СНІН, ОБІРТИС.

CHIN, FARG

СпЕч ни

HERE YANG MSIEN, HUM

за му

148

CHIS, SPICIMAN.

ANET/ORGANICATION INTERMAL USE GAILY

UPMAP CL

086078

26.8

88 10009-88009569

1801

PAIN

PAGE

ЦК

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Stenot

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard listings are cumulative; previous editions must. be destroyed

upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely

sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.

b. Non-Standard Listings

Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:

(1) Country of location

(2) OI codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)

(5) Occupation.

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,

a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the

OI code of XX or codes of XX; XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be

produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915

and 1920, with the occupation computer specialist, who are now citizens of the

United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the Ol code da.

Note however that the listing would cuntain only those personalities with an

Ol code AA. Those personalities with an OI code other than Ad and those

with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that

persons who have not been assigned an OI code also be included. Note also

that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific

as the occupation code (Attachment I). The occupation code for a courier

covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one

occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice

some trade or manual occupation, ie., carpenters; bricklayers, painters, mechanics

and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this categor!

will be included in the printout. These non-standard listings may be sorted

(arranged) according to any, but not more than three, of the following keywords:

(a) Surname

(b) Given name

(c) Date of birth

(d) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship

(f) Ol code

(g) Location

26.9

Suckin

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB. 70-1-1.

CHAPTER ILI, 'ANNEX B

15 November 1974

*Sorts can•be made within sorts. For example, 201 personalities may be sorted

alphabetically by surname within O1 codes for given. countries of location.:

Because two OI codes may be listed for each personality, those names with two

OI codes would be listed twice.

c. Scheduled Listings

Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.

d. Special Listings

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time basis

in response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings

All requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 201

listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for

information on the 201 machine list system should be made to the component

Records Management Officer.

28.10

SHERET

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINGS

Note: 201 files will be opened automatically by IP/AN on the following cate-

gories of people.

1. Arab Republic of Egypt (ARE)

a. Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above.

b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches.

c. Intelligence

officers of the General Intelligence Department (GID).

(Prior to opening of an ARE 201 file, check with NE/E for correct spelling

of name and additional biographic data.)

2.1

a. All positively identified members of

Services.

b. All positively identified members of the

and

ithe

Intelligence

Military Intelligence Service

Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and

officials of the

Communist Party front organizations. Do not open

unless there is at least a date of birth given.

d. All members of the Security Service of the

3. Cuba

Inteiligence service employees (DSE, DGI).

a. All

diplomats. C/NE/ISR should be indicated as the originating

office with CI/SP always indicated as the secondary office of interest.

Is Military attaches.

c. Assistant military attaches.

i. Identified intelligence officers.

26.15

SECRET

---

## Page 19

13-00000

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam

.

All diplomats and NILSV (PRG) officials stationed abroad.

6. USSR

* All Sey, 5 assigne, POse l refital regre, national a it later de,

office, news media office.

b. All Soviets assigned PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva,

and Vienna.

c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned: -

d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions

of higher learning

26.16

---

## Page 20

13-00000

SECRET

:..

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 13-1-1

70-1-1

CSEB 43-1-1

CHAPTER MI

15 February 1960

ANNEX B

PERSONALITIES - 201 AND IDN NUMBERS

.:.

• %:

1. A relatively small proportion of the total number of personali-

ties indexed by the Cs are of active operational interest at any given

point in time. These are normally, subjects of extensive reporting and

Cl investigation, prospective agents and sources, and members ot

groups and organizations of continuing target interest. Each of these

personalities is assigned either a 201 number of an IDN number.

•'÷

d::...

...

2. The 201 number serves a-dual purpose. It brings the files on

these personalities into the CS records system. A single number,

by 201-1231 1, les tablished to each geran, on a oster doterolled

to it, all of the reporting on the individual's personal history, current

status and prospects. Once the 201 number is assigned, it is used in

future reporting on the individual both as a tile number and in, place of

other identifying data. Up-to-date machine listings are published

periodically to help field stations and headquarters desks keep book

on those 201 personalities falling in their particular geographic or

• functional area of interest.

: ;.

3. It has become apparent that the 201 machine listings should in-

clude the identities of persons of operational interest because of their

connection with a target group or organization even though there may

not be sufficient information or specific interest to warrant opening

s..a.llle. For example: A considerable number of stations are concerned

with the activities of Cuban exiles. Coverage of their movements,:.

.; factions and objectives can be assisted by furnishing all participating

stations up-to-date listings containing information under the control;

43

Reas ky

SHORT

,2o110.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

7

BUCKET

70-1-1

CSHB 43-1-1

CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

¡ HANDBOOK NO. 47-1-1

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per-

sonalities, such lists should contain the names and identitying data

ot persons who should be kept track of, although they may only be of

tangential interest or on whom there may be little or no data other

than that given in the listing itself:

4. To accommodate this type of requirement in the 201 system,

identifiable personalities concerning whom enough information is not

yet available to require the opening of a file may be assigned numbers

of the following type but in the same series:

IDN-123457

These are relabeled "201" if a file is opened. IDN numbers are car-

ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,

where they are identified by the letter "I" in the "Type of Name" col-

umn. IDN numbers are not es file numbers.

• 5. All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters,

either upon receipt of Form 831, or of a field dispatch. If a dispatch

is written about a personality not yet in the system, a 201 number for

It may be requested simply by writing under headquarters file number

in the dispatch form as follows:

•?'.

Dispatch Symbol and No.

XYZA-12345

• Headquarters File No.

201 -

6. IDN numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the •

request of stations or desks which are developing special identification

programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-

tion of new 201 openings and IN numbers through the Field Index Card

Service..

44

SPONUT

---

## Page 22

13-00000

13010

70-4-1

CSHB 42-1-1

CHAPTER MI, ANNEX B

15 February 1966

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 47-11

7. Stations or branches often are concerned with personalities

not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired

order. Should such personalities become of generad CS interest,

they must be brought into the 201 system.

45

HORE

---

