# 104-10195-10004

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10195-10004

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1934

CIA HISTORICAL SEVEN PROGR

SINTERIN REVIDED AT CIA HE CUNTERS BY

MOUSE SELECT COUMITTLE CE ASSASSINATIOUS STAFF MARRERS

SECRET

FILE TITLE/MABLR/VOLINE: RIchard E. SNYDER

INCLUSIVE DATES: - 12 JUNE 1949 - 12 OCT 1970

CUSTODILL UNIT/LOCATION: OfFICe of PERSONNEL

ROMM: 5513

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

D.VIB

RECENTD

2-3-?1

3-9-78

31151 :

DIN:

RETTINED

2-3-70

3-4-78

REVIBICO RY

SIGMIURE OF

(PRINT MY)

REVISING DEFICIAL

ROBECT N. GEMZAPL

Errelite Fenginan

ROBERT IN. GENIMAR

Robers W. Genapar

ciel

6-6-28

1 - 6-78

1.

i..

---

## Page 2

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA NSTORICAL REYHEN PROGRAR:

SNYDER, Richard E.

SIES ONLY PILE OUT FIANCES

Includet in GIF

3t June 74

---

## Page 3

OCT 1970

Ar. Richard I. Sayder

1425 Hourth Street S.h.

Apurtaent A:10

Washinetoz, D. C. 20021

Doar Mr. Snyder:

I have your note wal shart retune that you furnished

Mr. Moyer of the State Department.

I approciate your kindness in offering to be. o' service

to us on a part-tlex or other besla. After carefully revieving

•your backtround tenthst any current or anticipated needa, I

en sarry to aivise you thai ir just have nothing, appropriate

to offer you at this tlie.

The opportunities tint aro nou

amnilable are either it the entrance leiel, in the scentific

or technical Tale, or clerical areas--the

part-tine oppor-

tunities nre gescrally available anly in clerical bork.

As

you know, we have been undor. rigid celling, restrictions for

about the last yenr no? a half.

Micrejore, 1 would be less

then can11? 11 1 lot you to bolieve liai tie ellantion vas

soing to change :or the better in the near uture.

Thank you for rotting In touch with us.

It an

oppartunity oi suitable challenge does arise, you can be sure

that ve will cant-ct you.

sincerely,

ded dinos in

Robert 5. Wattles

Director of ersonncl

1 - D/Security

Distribution:

Or1g - Adiressee

# - Subject's rile

1 - D/jers Chrono

1 - cI start/tr. Archibold

OD/Pers.RDKennedy: pjs

112 Oct 70)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SENDER WILL CHALA CLASSIFICATIÓN TOP AND BOTTOM

LSCLASNFIED

ENdFIDENTIAL

I SACKET

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

AND ADORES

ukelichela 18/7

DATE

ACTION

APPROYAL

CUMMENT

/ CONCURRENCE

CRECY REPLY

OASPATCH

ALE

INFORMATION

Remarkes

213-/407

Bah Kianese

cailed

mr archined.

PREPARE REPLY.

RECOMHENDATION

RETURA

"SIGNATURE"

2/10/20

OLD MERE TO RETURN TO SENDE

FROM: MAMS. AQJARAS UNO AMONAS NO

TiCLASSIFIED

r09 237

Use premieos editios

I OOSFIDESTIAL

DATE

SECRET

(10)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMA

do Harose.

706622

oll 8:90, 0-4 12,80.

8191.

Hunith tendiaca

01f

Tonro leaditors

Pligilal cult alt o1f

Tob,o cond alf 11/81.

0-3 3/88.0-8

2'96.

Dep 0.$ 8,84.

Mids: ato, er

Marrard

U Runs

la: 8-0798 89 1d,48

Cold,

appe

6:8.

84-57,

intoll root

04 SA

Modem

oit 8/30.

T,,ben

Field sch pit 1.

lane tene

7.98

D.18-82.

alalt

6/57.

Niseuy a prin oll 911.9.

of..

Air112

ious sol int pel off laga

?...

1117

RICHARD E SNYDER

1425 Fourth St., SW, Apt. A110

Washington, D. C. 20024

Er. Hoyer-

Thanks agaln for Elving me your

time last week. ha you suggested,

I have prepared the attached for

you to pass to Bill mitts (wrom

I noi recall more cleurly) at

your discretion.

Pich fry der

B, "1.:

ényder desppid on tosse ne

dic

impletonis

but de os

est-feat's

richie dient

---

## Page 6

14.00000

File |

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Dato _ 12 Has.2952

Diroctor, Pornomol Off100,

Offico of Adairlotration,

Offloo of tha U. 3. Hligh Cornissionor for Germary,

APO 757, Postoastor,

How York, Ho Yo

Gentlemons

Ros Rlohard E, Saydor

BOD 8 Nor. 1949-GB-9, 34500.00.

Rosigued-28 Sopt. 1050. GS-9, {$600.00.

iransoript uf loare 18 attaohod.

The timo and leava falanoes will be forthooming in tha

noar future.

Very truly yours,

JOSSPH S. REFF

Personnol Division

---

## Page 7

14-00000

PERSONNEL DATA FORA

S. EMPLOTIE.

SERIAL NO.

DO MOT MRITE IN SPACES BELON

25 SERVICE

2. namE (ARIoT):.

SNYDSIL,

Richard

LAST

" FIRST

S. SERVICE:

8. CIVIS. SERVICE

STATUS: 3. PRESENT ELASSIFICATION GS

20-28 GRADE STEP

20-J4 POSiTION TITLE

DEPT.

It's (

32-35 SALARY

B. OFFICIAL TARLE OF POSITION MON OCCURIEO INtel PERCE CORIANT

PRESEMT ASSIGAMEMT

36-37

OFFICE

38-39

9R.

49-41

DIVISION

LAST PERSONNEL ACTTON

8. PRESENT ASSIGUMENT

division

9. DESCRIBE NEUR LASI PERSONNEL ACTION

Excerted issio

10. ON'E OF ACTION-MARCH I9IO

12. CATE OF CHANGE IN JALARY:

42-43

84-415

46

VR.

LAST SALARY CHANGE

81. LAST SALAGE CMANGE:

DECREASE

PAY

PERIOSTE ARISE C

CAROL CEASE

PAM BARRASE

trender

CATH

1S. DATE VISITA DECEMBER 10 1914

10, PYPE OF APPOINTMENT IN CIA

Excepted dort.

194'

TEAD

47

TYPE

DAY

DATE OF BIRTH

54-55

YEAR

52-53

но.

DAY

34 5.

YEAS

1S, VETERANS PREFERENCE:

WIFE

WIDO

MOME

S PT.

10 рт.

1s.

MARITAL Sia!.S

MARKIEO

WAP SERVED:

WORLD WAR !

AGALO WAR 1I

56-57

APPOINTMENT

39 MARITAL STATUS

58

VET. PREF.

B1 SEX AND BACE

18. SEX:

19: RACE:

20. DATE ENTERED CE DUTY IN CIA:

M.

F. L

MARCH 27 4940

21. LAST OCCUPATION BEFORE APPOINTMENT IN CIA STURENT

•22. DAME OF EMPLOVER YOGE

E. 0.D. IN CIA

62-03

00.

64-65

DAY

E3 LAST OCCUPATION

66-67

YR.

23. LEGAL RESIGNCE Me SAT

INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE, BEFORE ADPOINTHEDE 1O CIA

_ 29. NUMBEO DE DELES SOVERNMENT SERMICE.

08-TO LEGAL TESTDENCE

TI NATURE OF NORM

25. MATURE OF PIESENT WORX: TECHMICAL

*:FESSIONAL

SUS. PSCFESSIONAL

72-73 YAS. GOVi. SERVICE

28. LECATION DE ISFICIAL MEADQUERTEOS:

TO LOCATIGN OFF, MDOTAS.

15

LAST EFFICIENCY RATING

27. LAST EFSIGIEECY RATIAG:

LOAT ING

TEAR

PATING

77-78

79

TR.

тоям по.

AUL 1829 97-80

---

## Page 8

14.00000

Pila

N.F.

Waahington, D.

15 AÚgUOt 1949

BEGISTEBER APPRiSSES PiLS

Us. flohard Edward Snydos

PIOneer

Villago

Donvor ¿0, Colorado

Deer ar. Snydors

In roforonde to your appliontion for onploy-

mont, this

doctor. I8 to abaure

you shot the procedding

of your papers and P=3, 14477.60 por annua

18 boing

continuad by thie agonor.

A dosinite offer of employa

sent cannot bo made, sorever, untle such timo ao a11

proodbBing has boon conploted.

sho procossing 1a a rathor longthy ono; bus

when further infornation

13

availablo, no shall got 1a

Bouch with you lanedlatoly.

In tho meantire, 1t would be approciated 1f

you mould

64y100

chango in your present sintua,

suon do chango

"i addrosa, ato.

If you sida to arito no in connoceton with

that vili doles delivery deny cerioo.

ploaso do not send it "Addrougee Ondy" as

Your continuad intereat and pationos are

appreciatod.

S1n00r014. 50458,

• -

ROBERTS. RAITIES

Personnel Brenah

---

## Page 9

14.00000

2430 E Strcöt, M. M.

washington 25, D.

27 July 1949

C.

RECITERED ADDRESSES ONLY

Mr. Richard Edward Snyder

c/o Dimeo

6 Taft Stroot

Nutley, Now Jersey

Doar lit. Snyder!

this agency.

The processing is a rather lengthy one; but then

furthor information 1s avallable, we shall get in touch

T1th you Immariately.

n the reantime, it mould be appreciated 1f yo

mould advise us

as crango of address, etc.

delay delivery tony otrico.

Tour continued interest and patience are appreciated.

Fet'd mat at

above ar

Ideas

ROBERT S. RATTLES

Personnel Brancl

---

## Page 10

14-00000

APORQUED FOR RELEASE 1094

CIA RIOTORIKAL REVIES PROGRAM:

Tel. 554-9328

Apt. A410

rashington, D.C. 20024

Interested In lecture/research/wrlting-related work

particularly in Japan und soviet fields, on project

or part time basis.

assignment 1957-59, INR, USSR-Asia.

Japanese,

Russiar,

least S/R-3+ 1n 30-E0 days.

No present or planned organizational ties. i11l live

In Washington area for at least immediate future.

ilfe; no minor children.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

APPROVID NOS SELDESE 1004

CIA RISKORIGAN REVIEW PROGRAMA

12

7 CCi 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT

: Richard Snyder

Mr. Wattles:

I talked to Mr. Watts of DDI Information Service who

stated that he got the recent note from Snyder from Mi. Lawson Moyer

of the Department of State. Mr. Moyer is the Director of the

Coordination Staff, Bureau of Intelligence and Research, and 18

known in the State Department as the State's CIA liaison man.

- TooteD.

cal pree,

Kennedy

Assislant Executive Officer

Office of Personnel

SEGMET

---

## Page 12

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SURECT: (Opponal)

FROM:

C/SIG

Dold rare deproion room murder, and

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND. RECORD SHEET

633.1

DATE

fictito

OFFICER S

INITIALS

хатілкоо

NO

DATE

to whom.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

5 October 1970.

1.

2.

C/CI Support

114/20

16 00r Sta

3.

for Big's mate bant

want is titte

a lock, I head noti

Indone take to ak

7.

8.

C/CI/SG

10.

12.

Testin

14.

15.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Nitra

USE Um-Y

UNCLE SIFITS

---

## Page 13

4-00000

5 October 1970

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI Support

SUBJECT:

Richard E.

SNYDER

(born 10 Dec. 1919, Passaic, N.J.)

You advised me that Robert KENNEDY of OP had called

asking about

Subject's file (apparently he retired as

a Foreign Service Officer (20. years, age 50) on 30 April

1970; he would like

on project or part-

time basis).

You asked if I knew of any reason why Mr.

BURNES had requested flagging of

"to be sure in-

quiries would be referred to CD/Pérs for further check with

Subject is the subject of CS file 201-748009,

stricted to CI/R&A (Paul HARTMAN)..

Fron the file it

noted that Subject worked for CIA 27 Mar.

'50-26 Sept.

'50, resigning for personal reasons.

The file was restricted

because of

involvement with Lee Harvey OSWALD, assassin of

the late President John Kennedy.

While Subject was

Secretary

at the Us Embassy in Moscow,

on 31 Oct. 1959, he

interviewed Lee Harvey

when OSWALD appeared at the

US Embassy, stating that he wished to renounce his US

citizenship

and hecome a citizen of the liSSR.

shows nothing reflecting adversely on Subject in

connection

with that episode).

An article in the 28 Feb. 1964 edition

of' the Northern Virginia Sun, written by Robert S. ALLEN and

and Paul scort, alleged that

"State Department racords show

that OSWALD had several meetings with the CIA representative

in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

Cable, NO. 234, SaYed Nov. D, 1959, Teports that OSWALD was

interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials." In a

memorandum dated 18 March 1967,

addressed to Mr. J. Lee

RANKIN, subject "Article Alleging that OSWALD Was Interviewed

by CIA in Moscow", Mr. Richard Helms, then Deputy Director

commented on the allegation as follows:

for Plansfor the record that the allegation carried in this

"I desire

press report is utterly unfounded as far as CIA is concerned."

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00001

3...

•The 201 file reflects that Subject's contacts,

university

circles, included Zbigniew BRZEZINSNI (201-012574),

born ca. 1926 in Peland; who is married to the daughter of

Edward

BENES, famous Czech leader.

At Agency request.

orovided some

Subject

information on and a personal

BRZEZINSKI.

I do not have personal knowledge relevant to Mr.

but suggest that DC/Cl be queried, in the

event that he might have more background information than l

Piern is too,

• 4. Evans

CI/SIG

CC :

DC/CI

LESTET

---

## Page 15

SPECIAI, NOTE

KOEP ON TOP OF ALL OTHUR PALESS IN THIS FILE

Any inquiry froin or about Mr. Richard S, snyder should be rafarrod

to the olfics of the Director of Porsonnel for action.

Additional

information 1s on file In OD/Pors.

Do tiesand

10 PEriL 1964

Per crise

Te mot ton of ove was aretter an 27 Jammany 1978.

11/20.

1/0%13

---

## Page 16

4-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

J CONFE NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (009ona1)

FROM,

TO: 10ttron. derr

c/ c1/5 uppor

umber. one

buoldong)

'EA to D/PERS

- 5E. 56:

2.

DATE

CHAICEES

RECRIVTO

потнаноо!

3.

NO

cAre

6 ApR 1967

COMMENTS (Number does comment "

Bertha-

This is the file o

inquired about

7.

8.

We wish this to he

10.

12.

13.

1d.

15.

TORA 610 COTONOUS X SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 17

4-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

2490 E STREET NW.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Dato

I Meresion

198$

Doar Mur

This 1e to notify you that the Unitod States Government, as rep-

resented by the Central Intelligence Agency, has accepted your employment

offoctito & November 1949.

Positions

"Intolligonos Offloor

G3-9

Base Salary:

GS-9

$4600.00

2. You will be:

a. Entitled to annual and sick lgave in accordance with Civil

Servico commission rulon and regulatione, or such

other provisiona

of law or rogulations as may be established in llou thereol.

Reimbursed for travel expenses In accordance with CIA Regu-

lations or Btandardized Government Travel Rogulatione, an amended.

c. If stationed outaide continental United States, granted such

monetary allowances as are prescribed by CIA Regulations.

3. Ao a condition of your employment, by the Central Intolliganco

Agency, you ard cubfact to asaignment to tours of duty at poats outslio

the continental Unitod Statos.

Each time you are so asaigned, unleas

otherwiae apocified 111 advanco by CIA, you will be required to remain at

the post to wnich assigned for a period of 24 monthe from the dato of ar-

rival thereat, unloss sooner transferred, reasaigned or separated for ros-

sons beyond your control.

If you wish to roturn to the United States for

perconal reasons during that period, all travel and transportation coote

Incident to-such return will be borne by you, with no expense to the

Government.

4. If this omployment 1e for assignment to an overseas post, 1t 18

understood and agreed that, unlese earlier separated for reasona beyond

your control, you will remain in Government service for 12 monthe after

your arrival at your firet overseas post, and 1f you violate thie agroo-

ent, any money expended by the United States on account of your travo.

nd the traneportation of your immediate family and household goods wil

be considered a debt due to the United States.

5. Employment 18 conditioned upon satiafactory complotion or the

raining courdos prescribed by CIA and satisfactory performance of dut:

or a total period of sir montha frau lato of employment. In the oven!

---

## Page 18

4-00000

-2-

other tralning or perfarmance of duty la deemed unsatisfactory by CIA,

you will be offered otber tupon of enployent 1f avallablo, ar your em-

plipsent will do tortratod.

Notice of teraination

vill bo given you by procodure similar to that provided by Civil Servico

rules and regulations.

sign lottere of

appolitment.

I accept tho abovo agneement as a con-

Date

Form No.

51-204

June 1948

---

## Page 19

4-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

2A30 E STREET NW.

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

Dato 27 March 1950

Dear I'r. Richard E. Snyder:

1. This 1a to notify, you that the United States Government, as rop-

resented by the Central Intelligence Agency, had accepted your employment

offoctive 27 Mure: 1950.

Position:

Intelligence Coricer G5-g

Base Salary: G5-?, $4466.00 per arniur.

2. You w1ll be:

a.

Entitled to annual and sick leave in accordance with CIvil

Service Commienion rules and regulationg,

or such other provicions

of law or regulations as may be establlshod in llou thereof.

Reimbursed for travel expenses in accordance with CIA Rogu-

lations or Standardizod Goverrment Trevel Regulations, an amended.

c. Il stationod outside continental United Statos, granted such

monetary allowances as are prescribed by CIA Regulatione.

3.

At a condition o!

your saplogsant by the Central Intelligonco

Agency, you aro subfoot to avaignment to toure of duty at posts outaldo

the continental United States.

Each time you are so assigned, unless

otherwise specified 1n advance by CIA, you will be required to remain at

the post to which assigned for a period of 24 monthe from the date of ar-

rIval thereat; unloss soorer transferred, reassigned or separated for rea-

sone beyond your control. If you wish to return to the Unlted States for

ersonal reasons during that period, all travel and traneportation coat

neident to such return will be borne by you, with no expense to the

Government.

and the trinsportation of your immediate family and household goods will

bo conaldered a debt due to the United Statos.

5. Employment le conditioned upon satiefactory completion of the

training courses prescribed by CIA and satisfactory performance of duty

cor a totel perlod of six monthe fron date of employuent. In the event

---

## Page 20

14-00000

•2.

ofther training or perforsan co duty la deemed unsatisfactory by CIA,

you will be offered other whes of employmunt if available, or your en-

ployment vill be terminated.

Your appointment is or such time an your services may bo ra-

quired: and funda are argilable for the work of CLA.

Notice of termination

will bo given you by procedure similar to that provided by Clvll Service

rulea and regulationa.

thet

Orficial authorized to aign luttere of

appointment.

I accept the above agreement sa a con-

dition of my employment by CIA.

Richerd sayder Mehisso

Fore No.

June 1949 51-204

---

## Page 21

4-00000

3177

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS PERSONNEL ACTION:

Fast pation

2l SentenDer 1950

26 Septerbor 1950

TITLE

GRADE

AND

SALARY

OFFICE

DIVISION

BRANCH

OFFICIAL

JUXITETCTTTIES

LASSIFICATION

SA FROM

Intellisance Officer

GS9, 54600.00B/A

OPE

Eastern surepera

Berlin, Ortice

Berlin, GacHanAPPROVAL

CNICAN

hit Natio

POST DIFFERINTIAL

AUTHORIZED IN ACCORDANCE

REGULATIONS

DATN OF OFFICE AND NO STRIKE AFFIDAVIT

EXECUTED EY

DECURITY CLEARED ONL

OYERSEAS AGREERENT SIGNED.

ENTERED ON DUTT

TERECUFTDE

SIGMATURE CE AITMENTICATING OFFICER

REMARKS:

S-8

I, Sariar is resigning for parsonal reasone.

den

Frederict M. michards

Anthorized Gertilying Officer

Richard 5. Saydor

тоям но.

38.1

I08D

690 090 90-980

SECRET

---

## Page 22

14-00000

NATURE DE ACTION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS PERSONNEL ACTION C

DATE

6 karah 1950

EFFICTIVE DATE

COB 26 March 1950

TITLE

GRADE AND

SALARY

OFFICE

DIVISION

BRANCH

DELICIAL

GUTITTICATTONS

Rossenation

FROM

Intolligenso Offloor as9

GS-9e 54600,00.

OPC Operations

FBD Area III

9210N840107

Tokyo, Japan

APPROVAL

FOR ASSISTANT DIRECTOA

TEXECUTIDE

CLASSIFICATION

POST DIFFERENTIAL AUTHORIZEO IN ACCORDANCE MITA AGENCY REGULATIONS

A:M OF OFFICE AND NO STRIXE AFFIOANIT EXECUTEO OM_

SECURITY CLEAREO ONL

DUERSEAS AGREEMENT SIGNED

ENTERED ON

DUTY

SIGNATURE OF AUTNENIICATING OFFICER

REMARAS:

Subjeot la being appodnted on unvouchered funde under his trum nana of

RICHARD B. SNYDER affoctive BOB 27 March 1950.

там M

or 18d097.

SECRET

---

## Page 23

4-00000

TITLE

GRADE AND SALARY

OFFICE

GRANCH

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS PERSONNEL ACTION-

DATE

7100r9.9 1919

PARECTINE DATE

segaptod Appolataont

FRON

1. 8 Novembe 190G

To.

Intol!lenca Officer CS-9

GS-Te 146.20.00

OPC Opa Staff

09-12-JBEDICT

OFFICIAL STATICO

QUALTETZATTONS

TOR ASSISTANY OPPONA

EXECUTIVE

CLASSIFICATION

PERSOMMEI

POST OIFFERENTIAI AUTMORIZEO IN ACCORDRACE DITM AGENEY RGGULATIGNS

SECURITI CLEARES: 18 Ratabar 1949.

OVERSEAS AGRERMERS SIGNER 9NONember 1949

ENTEREO

On OUTa S. Narenaber 19%9

251. 1

LATURE tE

REMARKS:

Pseidamym acknowledged iNsember nove js

39-1 PAGAINO COITIONS ASE NOS TO DE USSO. SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET

SECRECY AGREEMENT

Intentgondo which conourns tho present and futuro soourity of tho Unitud States.

dild

vinlot bolorgs to tho United stutus. This infornation and latulligenco,

togethor with. tho acthods of collooting and handling it, aro clussifiod

according to standards sot in tho Stato, ior, and javy Departerats. I havo

road and understand tho provisions of the Act of Congress of Juni 15, 1917

(Esplonage ict), as amended,

concerning tho disúlosure of inferation rolating

to tho National Dofonso ind I an famillar with tho penalties provided for

viclation thorcof.

I agree that I do not now, nor shall I over possess ary right.

titlo or claim in or to say of the

infornation or Intolli;ones or the mothods of

collentinz or handling of it which has como or shall cono to sit attention by

virtuo of my coincation with tho

, but shall clways

rocogaizo the property right of the United States of anorica in ind to such

I do solemnly swear that I will never divulge, publish aor roverl cithor

by word,

conduct, or by iny other means such olassified intonation, intrillaonoo

or knowledgs, except in the porformanoe of ny official dutios aid in recordanco

with the lows of the United states, unloss spocifleally autherised in writing in

cuch cass by tho

CIA

I uadorstand that no chango in ny assigment or caploitcat vill rollero

ac of nu poligation undor this ooth and thut thie provisiars of this oath vill

remain binding upoi ms rood oftor to tomination of my sorries tith the United

States.

I uderstand that my employment by tho

6a I take this obligation frocly, without asy mental resaration or

purpose of crasion.

In witnees whercof I have sut ny hand and

scal this Gef day as Sensenber 1942.

swora to biforo ne this 91h day of Mensaber 1949.

at Wastungten, D.C.

Joel SPff

SISTERET

---

## Page 25

IPIO AGE

Unlawfully ostriaise or portiltting to be obtainal interbatioa

affocting.nnticaal defense.-tet (0) Nromer, for the purpose of ob

tainino intoration respectino tho national defense with intent or .

renson to bolieve that ise inforeation

to de obtained la to be used to

the injury of the suited Stacos, or to

the advantago of ary fereign

ration, soes upas;

esters, illos ovor, or othorairo obtaias trioriation

concerning any vessel, sinsafe, sork of dofense, nevy jard, caval

station, subcarice

• baso, allas station, fort, battory, torpedo station.

dociyard, ensal, rajiroai, arsenal, casp, 'fectory, aine, inlectrah,

telephono, vireless, co sigral station, building, office, or othor

pince connçcted with tha maiional dofanse, suned or constructed, or in

progross of crastruction in the United States or undor tha control of

tho Unitoù States,

es of so ci lts officers or ngents, oi sithin tho

exclusivo jurisdiction of the Unitod States, or any place in nich uny

ressol, aircreft, aros, runitions, or other naverinle or Inotresents

ios use in tiro of var ne deing nade, propered, ropalred, or stored,

under nay contrace of agreeson: vith the Unlted Staios, or wits nny

person on behals of the Utised Staton, or otherilse on sahalf or the

valted States, or an probisitod placo within the meanire of section 6

os this title; or (D) mester son the purpose clorosnid, ad v1th 11i0

intent or roasoo to bollete, copies, taices, mates, or obtains, or

stiompts, or Indices or niis nothor to copy,

take, anxe, or obtain, any

siretch, photogrand, anotograntlo nocative, blueprint, ala., sno, nodol,

lastrument,

anpliance, decuront, mitire, or note of erichina cornucted

vith the natioral desesse; er (e) whoever, for tao purpose arorosaid,

rosoives "or obtuins or agrics or attennis or inducos o: aida noothor to

roccivo of obtals iras an porson, of fror enj ccurco inacover, any

document,

jigan book, protei photo tree,

sitogrople nomadiro, biaceria:, plen,

me?, rodel, Instruzont, spo

Illinco,

or 20:o,

rains

connected nith tro rational defense,

moving or horiao rosos to tolicro, at the tire ha recoiron er obtains,

or agrees of attoop's or incuces or cids crother to receive or obtain

1t, that 1t has been or mili be obtainod, takoa, redo or disvosed or

dy any person contrary to dis provisions of this titlo; or (d) shoovor,

lafully or unlaviallo harleo possession oi, cecess to, occurol over,.

or boing intrustod sit nor documont, voltira, code book, sigral,

took, sketch, photo tinà, alotograpnic neertive, blusprint, mla, nap,

codol, inatrimoat, smilara, is noto rolatino to shu racional defonso,

milliully commuicatos or mangalts or attoapts to connunicato or trensmit.

¡ão sane to ear person not inblelod to roccivo it, or viilíull; retairs

sno suno end falls to dilitia 1t on desard to tao officer or coloreo

or tro United States miltid to recolre It; or (a) whocier, being

inbrustad with or Marina loveil possession or control of ay document,

waiting.

code booi, sigal loci, sketci, photograpa, photograaale

mosatiro, bluoprint, plan, sos, sodel, soti, of taformatios, relating

to tho national jorease, rumi" groas noellecace parita tho sose to

be renoved frou its proper alaco of custody on dolivircd le crose In

riolation of his iris:, or to do lost, stoica, nostractad, or destrojca,

stato do puslebid by imprisican: for not sore then tea jeers cad enio

(21+5)

---

## Page 26

In tho discrotion of tha court, do sinod not more this $10, 000.

(Soco lo

Titlo i.

nct 15 Jario 1917 (40 Stat.

March 1g4o ( 54 Stnto 79: 50 Vo5.6. jio do nachard da sece 1, not 28

unlawrulls disclosing infornctior effoctlag mational dofanse.

(is Snoovor, with fritont or rocion to bollovo that lt 15 to bo used to

tho injury of the united sintos or to tho navantree of a forcin sation.

conminientos, dolirers; or transalto, or attcupts to, or ride or induces

anotnor to, consuniento, doliver, or tinnamit, to us forcien covorso

nonto or to uni inction or party or ailitary or naral force within a

forolen country, mother recognizod of unrocomicad si eno. Unitod states,

or to as roprosontativo, officor, neont, umployei, subject, or citizon

thoroof, olthor diroctly or liaircetly, nij documar:, aritine, codo cook,

algarl brois, srotal, photoganni, photoernnhic regatlie, blueprint, pier,

nep,

model, noto, instrumont, applianco, or inforuntion rolating to tho

artloral dofenso, shall do pundohod by Inprisonnert for not noro than

twenty jerro:

cubacction (n) of this scotion in tino of wir shall do punished by donth

or by imprinonaont for not noro than thirty yours; and (o) Woover, la

tino of war, with irtent that tho ario chall bo communiactod to the cacaj.

shall colloct, rocord, publian, or commulento, or ntturot to clicit wu

inforation with respoct to tho movoment, numbers, deserlotion, condition,

or disposition of my of tho maca forcos, ships, aircruit, or ur antorials

of the Unltod States, or with rcopoct to tho plas or conduct, or supposud

plens or conduct of any nond or military oportions, or with respect to roy

works of norsures undertaken for or conncoted with, or irtindod for tho

fortification or dofenso of any prico, or nny other incoration relating

to tho püblic dorchso, which might do uscrul to the chony, shall bo

unloned by denn or by inorisonon: for not nors then thirty joars. (Sec.

, act 15 Jure 1917 (H6 Stat, 215: 50 4.5.0. 32).

I have read and sinluctand the forcions

of the a bore.

Pizazz a talenten

W2iv

graph. 8 Piff

---

## Page 27

14-00000

STANDARD TORM. 61 (TIVISTO AARA, ( INA)

PROMUL GATED IN CISI

APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

IMPORTANT.- Belore swearind lo those appointment alfidavits, you should road and undorsland the

atrached information los appointoo

Rill C5

I, ..n

A. OATH OF OFFICE

OPC

HAS LINGTON, D. O

(Place al traplay sens)

.. do solemnly swear (or affirm) that-

duties of the office ori which I am about to enter; SO HELP ME GOD.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION

that advocate Ce overror of the overment of Ve tened State by ober of vi rea niation

Constitution of the United States.

C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

I am not engaged in any strike against the Government of the United States and that I will not

so engage while an employee of the Govemment of the United States; that I am not a member o

i he United State, unthat mi not hit over then he poorik agone a me move of muc

I the Unted nute

an organization.

D. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

I have not paid, or offered or promised to pay, any money or other thing of value to any person

Arm or corporation for the use of influence to procure my appointment

"E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

The answers contained in my Application for Federal Employment, Form No. Steal

dated

19.42, filed with the above-named department or agency,

which I have reviewed, are true and correct as of this date webove exceptions noted in the Declara.

tion of Appointee on the reverse of this form,

of Appointee.)

(echoiceptions write

Say one" on the Declaration

Subscribed and sworn before me this

Machlaston coi

9th

day of...

Norember

., A. D. 19. 19,

at..

D.

C

(SBAL)

i puple & last

dressina dies, denia:

NO"E.- It tho oath is takon soloro a Notary Public the dato of expiration of his commission should

bo shown.

10-86230-1

---

## Page 28

4-00000

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

This form is to be completed before entrancè on duty.

Question 3 is to banstired in all casos, othortelso

answer only those questions hich require an animer diflerent from that diven so she corresponding

quessionsonyour'applicationform.

It no answers aro different, write "NONE' in tres 10, below.

Any

faise sintenient in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismisse after appointment.

Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted necordingly.

1. PALSENT NOUritEs (arreal and number, cicy and Slaia)

& (A) DATE OF BIREM

(0) MACT ON SARTA (Rity or Ni

nd Stato de corentry)

1. 14) IN CASA ON LAUREENTY PULASE MUTUTY

Mr, Tire O. Farenderi

(O) STREET AND HUMBER CITY AROSTATE

IRVINÜTEN "'

• DOES THE UNETRO STATTS CONTRNMINT EMPLOY, IN A CIVILIM CÁPACITY, ANY RELATIVE OF TOURS CUTENA DY OLODO OR MARTAGO WITH MAIDEN NON UNE ON NAVE LINTO VITHIN

THE PAST 2e HOMINSIVIS

ST OFFICT ADDR

ito stress number, al al

1) MOUTHY

(:) TIMAIRARY DO MUT

L OCPARTMINT OR AGENCY IN MINTE

EMPLOYED

BIZATIOM

DAN

TIED

SINCRE

(Chock ano)

INDICATE "YES" OR "NO" ANSWER

BY PLACING "X""

IN PROPER COLUMN

* ARE YOU A CITIZON OR OR DO YOU ONE ALLEGINACE TO THE UNTO STATESY

& ARI YOU AN OTTIGIL OR EMPLUYEI OF ANY STATE TERRITORY, COUNTY, OF

MUNICIPALITYP..

Il youe anamàr la "Yos", fire docaila in liom 10.

YES

HO

1. 3.

1Q SPACE FOR DETAILED ANSWERS TO OTHER QUESTIONS

WRITE IN LEFT COLUMN NUMALRS OF ITDES TO B'ATI SIT ULEO ANSWERS APPLY

• M.S3:0N 0H

crement as angerna

soured from miliary or naral sorero.

& HAVE YOU EVER BEEN

DISCHARGEO CA FONCEO TO RISIGN, FOR MISCONDLE

OR UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE FRUN ANY POSITIONI....

"Yos""

damager dase and caron in ench ceo.

• dino in Iron 10s to namo ano adórass

SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A LY FENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROLL DUI

CONVICTEO FINED OR IMPRISONED OR PLACEO ON PROBATICA

EVER BLEN ORDERED TO CEPOSIT BAIL

LAYLAN FOR IRON ALATION FOOLIN

NICHA FINE OR FONTLITUREOF EDALESS HAS IMALSEDI

I your anemor in

roun anch caro en thadas

liat all such caras undes leem 1l

2) Phonetiren choen

spoution of tho

5-222

apporniad, your Anferprinto veill

see map to hind

belore

Service

Nit.

Do as chested for natas

TIM

bith any reard of recent duschare or

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER

F31-29.3128

MAY

T'be

appanice

A 1 DOTRA+RENT PRINTIOR BRRICA 1D-1B1C0-1

---

## Page 29

4-00000

STANDARO FORM 61 (ArVISTO APRE L INE)

CHAFILR MA I EDERAL PERSONNEL HANUAL

APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

IMPORTANT. - Before swearind to these appointment affidavito, you should road and understand the

attached information for appointed

CId

(Departi

ureau or diries

FADHINGRON, D. C.

(Piece d employees

..., do solemnly swear (Or affirm) that-

A OATH OF OFFICE

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against oll enemies, foreign and

domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely

without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the

duties of the office on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION

I am not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I a member of any organization

that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence or other

unconstitutional means or seeking by force or violence.to deny other persons their righis under the

Constitution of the United States:

I do further swear (or affirm) I will not so advocate, nor will

I become a member of such organization during the period that I am an employee of the Federal

Government.

C. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

I am not engaged in any strike against the Government of the United States and that I will not

so engage while an employee of the Government of the United States; that I am not a member of

an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government

of the United States, and that I will not, while a Government employee, become a member of such

an organization.

D. AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE

I have not paid, or offered or promised to pay, any money or other thing of value to any person,

firm or corporation for the use of influence to procure my appointment.

E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

The answers contained in my Application we de aboyme defatment or agency,

Which I have reviewed, are true and correct as of this date with the exception noted in the Declare

tion of Appointee on the reverse of this form. (If no exceptions, write "None" on the Declaration

of Appointee.)

Prickard sure

222h:

... day of ..

., A. D. 19.50.

Subecribed and sworn before me this

st...

(City)

P.r.- Ge.

(Stare)

(sEAL]

Ohlore 10. Aules

Personnel terk

NOTE.- Il the oath is taken belore a Notary Public the date of expiration of his commission should

be shown.

30-86200-8

---

## Page 30

14-00000

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

Thia form is to be compieral defore entrançe on duty.

Question 1 is to be ansmered in all cases, othermiso

answer only: those quesinns which require in answer different from thar diven to she corresponding

questionson your appliation form.

Il no answeis are differens, mrire "NONE"' in Item 10. deium.

Any

false atatement in this decisrit: a will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal alter appcintment.

Impersonation is a crimina. faerise and will be prosecuted accordingly.

10. 0EC 1917

PASSAR: N.!

& EN) IN CASE OF RMERGRNCY MENSE MOTOR.

TO STRETT ANO MIMBER CITY ATO STATI

MA's ANNA M. SMYSTE

L011 COLTIGEREST.

• THE AST NOTE COE EN ONE IN A OUR CURAGIT, ANY RELATIVE OF TOURS CUTE EY ELOVO OR MARUG MITH MOM OU LIE UR MIE LATO UTTE

1leo, lor dens ouch relatira fil in eso dianto sebo. Il adderonel apace in n

nasan, nature under irom 10.

NAME

(Gross rebor, i ans)

C.) ASSTAN

INDICATE "YES" OR "NO" ANSWER-BY: PLACING. "X",

. IN PROPER COLONN

& ARE YOU A CITIZEN OF OR DO YOU OUTI ALLEGIRTCI TO THI LANTED STATIS?..

ARE YOU AN OFFICLAL OR EMPLOYTE OF ANY STATE, TERRITOGY, COUNTY.

NICIPALITY!..

31 your anomes in "Yes", dino carmits in liveca do

YES

NO

ITEM

• 1Q SPACE FOR DETAILEO ANSWERS TO OTNER QUESTIONS

MATTE IN LEFT COLUSIN XUMEERS OF ITEMS TO UHICH DETAZEE LESHEES ATLT

NE225

•veronal diasines

al 80

from anilitary or naval borro

HAVE YOU TVER DEEN DISCHAAGED DA TOACT: "I TESTER, RIA MISCONDU

A UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE FRON ANY PISTINI M

Is " Yes

lino in liam if i to sacre and addraco

'amplurer, dato, and torran in da-s sai

EL SINCE YONIR TET M DIRTHRAY MAVE VIVI EVER

SUMMONIO INTO COLRY

CONVICTED, FINED. ORIMPRI

EVER BEEN QAIYRED

LAW

HETED. OR

CHINE TOR

E VIOLATION

¡NOR TRAFFIC

10.

pappo to sad, top sell cotton

The

officer

before

satialaction

PRICELE CAT

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER

made shall

cod Refulatioos asi

BRUCESTEI

7 & CITERANCRT PRIATINA CATICA

8883200-1

---

## Page 31

4-00000

SCRET

SECURITY APPROVAL

To

Froh

Subject:

Chint, Employees Division, Spocial Support Staff

Dito: 13 October 1949 :

Chief of Inepection and Security

SNYUER, Richard Edward

Number: 38984

1.

Noto "X'" below:

Socurity approval 1o grunted subject for iccese to clausified

informition contingent upon the rovelpt of derruatory Iriorma-

tiori at some future date.

Provlutonal clom'ince for füll duty with CIA le granted under

tho provisiond of paragrap. 4, Adminiatrative Inotruction 10-2,

which providoe

for a tomporry appointment pending the com-

plotion of full nocurity irvestigution.

Unlodo the appiicant enters upon duty within 60 daye from above

date this approval becomes invalld.

2.

Your memorandum datud 19 July 1949 stated subject is an applicant for

OPC.

Geerse fa Loker, Ir

+440, 40165408-540410Eaton

Chief, Special Security Branch

SECRET

...i. 1..

MAY

---

## Page 32

LURET

PERSONEL OFFICER

KHAPD B

Roquoso Collo Ing Personnel Action bo taxon: for OPC,

Namo

ard E. Sricor

Maturo of iotion ApiDäntient

Grado _15_

Salary_ $ 9470.30 _

Orficial Station 1115s008 - undatornizad

Typo of Furds Waroughered _ Prodont 9D-1-SCHOUSE

Typo socurity Dasirud Seul severte

Renaris Irarol and por dion authorizada Malver es 10a

has boon requectodo A copy of thle requent will la curaished

/хіти

Iaure,

Enolo

PHIS (B)

57

(3)

SEGRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

RESIDERCE, AND DEPENDSNCI PEPORT

CONFOrMINE

For use by staff officers and employcos only.

Submit in duplicate on

entoring

Service and whenever designated place of residence or narital or dependency

status changes. I:PORTANT in deteruining travel expenses. and transit salary

allorable in conncetion with loavo at Goverment expense, return to rosidence

uDon separation, and in determining transportatio: expenses allorable in

connaction with' shipment of renains of officer or employee or menber of fanily

Place of restoco men appointed to sorvice

New Jersey

IT appointed abroad, last placu of rosidence ir. continental Unitod Statos

Placo In continental United stutos designated permanent or legal reeidenco

VEN CERSEY

¡ Place of Marriago

BELLEVILLE, N.J.

Date of marriage

SEPT 13, 19 41

Singlo

Harriod

¡Placo of divorco decrea

Date of divorce dcerce

-=.

-.-

Divorced

Place spouse dica

Date spous die

L=. iidowed

Hembers of Fanily

(hs Dofinid in GAI !o. 11)

Identification of Henberg of Fantly

Relitionshie

Date ef Pirth

IAN 1, 19.19

APRIL F, 1942.

MAY 2, 1547--

Date of Subnission

11/9/49

Sible. GOHTDENTIAL

---

## Page 34

14-00000

For use bi stail officurs ind

impoveer only.

Jubeit in durllentu en erterin

service and thetover denionated

pluce of rusidence er enrital or dependency

IliONtuit in daturmining eravel expuases und eranèlt salary

..ulloñablo in connértion mith louve al Governert expunce, roturn lo residenco

upon separation, and in detirnining cranportution expensor ollovablo in

cornuction silth shimmint of remains of officur or emplojee or sorber of fanily.

Nani of officur or caplogeo

Bichard Edrard Sasder

Pluco of rusiderco nica appointed to servico

NUTREY NEW JERSEY

If appointed abrosa; last placo, of ruaidenco in continental Initud States

Finco in convinentul Enitud Statas dusignated perianene or leral regidence

IRVINGTON, NEM JERSEY

¡Placo of lia: rlare

/Dato of surrlogo

Singlo

larried

BELLEVILLE, N. J.

Pluc: of divore. decrue

Data of dircice decree

Divorcad

Prico Pporse dicd

5r.30 20u20

?led

"Idowen

1a:N/0276 200/23

DIaNNE LOGA SAYDER

MARISIN GALL SUYDER

Late 01 S951-35 on 27 March

in Gi

15. 21

221270

v9N1.+2919

APR16 5, 1943

CHLER :MAY 2, 1947

in Fichase fieler

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 35

14-00000

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

Instructions:

1.

• 2.

answer all questions completel

able."'

Write

"unknown"

the answer from personal maris

lise the blank pages at the end of this form

for extra details on any question or questions for which you do not have suti-

citilt room.

sider, print of write carafully: lilegitie or incomplete forms will not receive con-

HAVE YOU READ AND DO YOU UNDERSTIND THE INSTRUCTIONS?

Jes

Tea or 8io

SEC. 1. PERSONAL BACKGROUND

Telephone:

once: Hone

A. FULL, NAME Mr.

Ricbars

Snyder

Home HU 2 5162

PRESENT ADDRESS C/O DimeO 6 Fart St. Rutley, New Jerse LiSA

PERNANENT ADDRESS .

None

38. & NI

•B. NICKNAME - DicK

State

WHAT OTHER NAMES HAVE YOU UBED? MOne

Coratry

- UNDER WHAT CIRCESTANCES HAVE YOU EVER ISED THESE

NAMES? Not auRlacable

HOW LONG?.

_ IF A LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS

Where?

By What Anthority

C. DATE OF BIRTH DEC 10/1 PLACS OF BIRTH PasSale New Jersey

USA

D. FRESENT CITIZENSHIP UNA

Country

— BY BLATA. YeS

BY NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE

_ BY MARRIAGE?

_ ISSLED

Date.

AT - CIT

Scaro

HAVE YOU HAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY?.

Country

HELD BETWEEN WHAT DATES?

- No

Yes or No

_ ANY OTHER NATIONALTY? - 10

ONE PARTICULARS

HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESSIT CITIZENSHIP? _AQ_ GIVE PARTICULARS:

s0e",49: 30.1

---

## Page 36

4-00000

E. IF BORN OUTSIDE US. WIEN DID YOU FIRST ARRIVE IN THIS COUNTRY?

PORT OF ENTRY? -

LAST US. VISA -

__ ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY? -

Type

Place el lario

Muriter

Dace of diaue

SEC. 2. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

AGE -

29

- SEX maLe

_ КЕЛОНТ 5'23/4" WEIGHT _160

SYES - PIOMA HAIR bIOTI_ COMPLESION. LaLT SCARS _ MORe

BUILD LeGiun OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES LiOne

SEC. 3. MARITAL STATUS

A. SINGLE -

_ MARRIED _ * DIVORCED

WIDOWED

STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL. SEPARATIONS: DIVORCES ON ANNUIUENTS

_let acplicable

(IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE — INCLUDE ANNUL-

B. WIFE OR HUSBAND MENTS

- USE

SEPARATE

SHEET

ГОР

FORMER

WIFE

OR

HUSBAND

GIVING DATA REQUIRED

BELOW FOR ALL

PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.)

NANS OF SPOUSE _Anna

- Dinner

Middie

Mallen

- Snyder

Last

Silver Lake Baptist Church, Belle-

PLICE AND DATE OF MARRIAGE VIIIE, I. J. Sept 13, 194I

HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE 25& Washington Ave, Fellav1ll-

LIVING OR DECEASED LIVICZ DATE OF DECEASE -

-_ CAUSE

c/o Direo

PRESENT. OR LAST, ADDRESS & EGEt SteeLS Her Jersey.

USA

Country

DATE OF BIRTINEN 1/12. PLACE OF BIRTH BeLLeYble lew Jersey SA

IF BORN OUTSIDE US. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

CIFIZENSHIP ISA WHEN ACQUIRED? bLIth WHERE? i Staço CuntrY

OCCUPATION Housewife

- LAST EMPLOTER not applicable

EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS - S. ENO

country

MILITAR SERVICE FROM LIONE TO DOES

_ BRANCH OF SERVICE -

COUNTRY

— DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, US. OR FORETON

lione

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SEC.

1. CHILDEST OR DEPENDENTS (Include parlial dependerts)

- RELATIONSHIP OWn child 105_6

CITEKNSHIP USA ADORES 6 Tuft St iutley leY JerSey USA

2 sus darilyn Gall Snider

- RELATIONSHiP OWn ChilA AOB_?

c/o Dinec

_ RELATIONSHIP -

CITIZINSHIP.

_ ADDRESS

88. & NO. 0155

Blate

country

SEC.

5. FATTER (Gire the same information for stepfather and /or guardian on a separate sheet)

Herbert

Snyder

prob sumed

I.985

LITING OR DECEASED 11VÍDY_ DATE OF DECEASE -

- CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST ADDRESS 1'2 2ULaNSt kast Orane LeN Jersey USA

DITS OF BIRTH 1894-

— PLACE OF BIRTH West Orange HeN Jersey UsA

IF SORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY .

CITZENSHIP _USA _ WUSY ACQUIRED? bIrth WHERE? MY

gLato

Country

OOCUPATION Sales naT LIST EMPLOYER nOt known

LUFLUTERS OR OWN BUSINESS ADORESS ORE NOTES

NETARY SERVICE FROM LiORE TO - DOLO BRANCH OF SERVICE

COENTRY

_ DETAILS OF OTTIER GOVT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN.

lone as far as ichown.

SEC.

6.

MOTEISE (Give the same information for stepmother on a separate sheet)

FIZU NANE - IdA

Aliddle

saudes (nee walther)

doril 19,

LITIG OR DECEASED VECE SEDATE OF DECEASE 1919 CAUSE Cancer

PUSENT, OR LAST MORE Cerer St Hewark New Jersey USA

DATE OF BIRTH 1.27 PLACE OF BIRTH LenacK NeN JerSeY USA

CITIZENSHIP USA - WHEN ACQUIRED? DIrth WHERE? iT

IF BORN OUTSIDE US. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

OCCUPATION HOUSCHILE LAST EMPLOYER nOt aPrICablE

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS DIE NO. MY BLav

Coasty

MILITARY SERVICE FROM MODA TO _

— BRANCII OF SERVICE

COUNTRY

M. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT BERVICE, US. OR FOREION.

- NIVE

SEC. 7. BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including hall, step, and adopted brothers and sisters)

1. FULL NAME Herbert

henry

Snyder

Meladio

Leas

- лов 32

PRESENT ADDRESS 4L6 ReariSleY AVE l00nf1eld Hu Jersey IsA USA

2. FULL NAME

First

PRESENT ADDRESS

"Se & No.

3. FULL NAME

First

PRESENT ADDRESS

St. do Ma

4. FULL NAME

Pirat

PRESENT ADDRESS - BL & Na

GrEy

Slaro

SAsadie

Brare

Misedle

Scara

Citizenraly

Country

countes

5. FULL NAME

PRESENT ADDRESS

H9310

Country

CELADEAD

SEC. 8. FATHER-IN-LAW

FULL NAME -

Dominick (Domenico (ione)

LIVING OR DECFASED deCeASed DATE OF DECRABS J ICE 40AUSE SUICIde

PRESENT, OF LAST, ADREE 189 Frenzu Ave Liatawan few Jergey ESA

DATE OF BIRTH 16 SePt PLACE OF BIRTH VOlturora GrIpIna Italy

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY -

1905 New Yoris City

OCCUPATION Vender

- LAST EMPLOSER

self

Sue

1n-1aw

sheot '

"or intormation on presee spouse of mother-

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SEC.

9. MOTHER-IN-LAT

FULL, NAVE Philosona

None

LIVING OR DAISO LYIRL DATE OF DICEASS -

-CAUSE -

Direo (Discepolo)

DATE OF BIRTH 30 ARY

_ PLACE OF BIRTH Yoiturora Gripina Italy

IF BORN OLTSIDE US INDICATE DATE AND PLACS OF ENTRY 10C4 New York CIty

SEC. 10.

SEC. 11.

OCCUPATION FOUSaULIO

_ LAST SUPLOsER not applicable

RELATIVES SS ELOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION, WHO EITHER LIVE ABROAD OR

WHO ARE NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES: MOister of

_ RELATIONSHIRAtHOF-17 JAYAOE 62.

CITIZENSHIP Italien

8. NAVE l:1absal Plaza

CITIZENSHIP Italian

- ADDRESS :

ah sta Volturora intoina Italy

"brother" of

- RELATIONSHIPfathEr-In-LaGE 20.

- ADDRESS - SENa Volturora irIpina Italy

brother

RELATIONSHIP lather-LialaddE 65

CITTZENSHIP FES213n

voltures a boar

RELATIVES SI ELOOD OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF

THE US OR OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT. Mono

1. NAVE

RAZATIONSHIP

AGE

CITIZENSHIP -

_ ADDRESS

38. $ No.

State

TYPE AVD LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNONE)

8. NAME

RELATIONSHIP

AGE

CITIZENSHIP

— ADDRESS

Sx. I Nu

CHy

TYPE 1N2 LOCATION OF SERVICE IF ANON,

3 NUNS -

_ RELATIONSHIP _

CITIZENSAP -

- ADDRESS

33 & NE

stair

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE IF KNOWS,

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SEC. 12. EDUCATION

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL MOISON Sta

DATES ATTENDuth SidO

1925-1933.

HIGH SCHOOL -

"DATES ATTENDED 1933-193%

COLLEGE Rutgers lintv College

_ ORADUATE? YES

- noris evers sate

ISA

ouat

_ GRADUATE? _ JES

- ADDRESS MARA MOre

DATES ATTENDED 193Y-LY40

COLLEGE Yale Unive

DATES ATTENDED 1930-1938

- ADDRESS i Have Conn Usaur

DUURIE -

SEC. 13. MILITARY, NAVAL OR OTHER GOV'T SERVICE - U.S. OR FORETON

USA

ArTY

Cart (last) Seot 1940-Jan 1946

Country

rrtco

Kant

Dales of serrica

0164x160

honorable

Irrial No.

Type or Distbargo

LazA? Brallan

REMARKS: lione

SELECTIVE SERVICE: BOARD NUMBEN NOne

ADDRESS

IF DEFERRED GIVE REASON

INDICATE NEMBERSHIT IN MILITANY RESERVE ORGIÑIZATIONS -

ORC'

SEC. 14.

CHRONOLCGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PAST 15 YEARS. ACCOUNT

FOR ALL PERIODS. INCLUDE CASUAI, EMPLOYWSNT

INCLUDE ALSO PERIODS

OF UNEMPLOYMENT.

GIVE ADDRESSES AND

STATE WHAT YOU DID DURING

PERIODS OF UNEMPLOYMENT. LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.

1. FROM WHORCH: 1246 go Nune 1942

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY _ Y'ale Untv

ADDRESS

New liaven

38. d Na

Cry

KIND OF BUSINESS UAlV

Coar

Seato

- NAME OF SUPERVISOR

LiSA

Country

TITLE OF JOB_S tudeut

- PER

YOUR DUTIES

REASONS FOR LEAVING _ Gra duated

2. FROM MEC15, 1948

Dec 24, 1948

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCS U. S. Post 01r1ce

---

## Page 41

14-00001

ADDRESS

dew Haven

CHlY

KIND OF HUSINESS L'S.=a1l

TITLE OF SUB DalL CArEIeL

Conn dias USA

COUDEn

_ NAME OF BUPERVISOR 11Ot KROWn

_ SALARY SAA28_ PER bX:

YOUR DITIES _I31l carryine

REASONS FOR LEAVISO _ Casual Job-studont. aell-supvort

3. FROM DEC 1la 1942- TO S Jan 1249

EMPLOYING FIRV OR AGENCY YOLQ lNIYIISItY

ADDRESS .

lien Havsa

_conn

_USA

Btato

couDtry

KIND OF BUSINESS. VadversitY

—. NAME OF SUPERVISOR Sayles

TITIE OF JOB LaDOIER

_ BALARYS E2O PXA tOtAA

YOUR DUTIES lending fires of mriled studont nomes

REASONS FOR LEATISO CaSUaL 10b-student zeht-su0g25t

4.

FROM iiay 1946 TO Sopt 1947

EMPLOYINO FIRM OR AGENCY - SeATS RRebucis inu Gla

ADDHESS ChUrCH St liew liaven CONA IA USA Couny

KIND OF BUSINESS retall dept stzrevAvE OF SUPERVISoR frank Sanella

ULCOrOR MrcLuseLaR-

_SALARS S 035 PER hr ;

YOUR DUrIEs -l'uralture reDade and cencrat iarenustna

REASONS FOR LEATING DIES3 0f SChoOl wor:

5.

FROM_DeC 1945_ TO Feb 1946

EMPLOYIMO FIRM OR AGENCY _SEarS Roebuck und Co.

ADDRESE El1zIbeCh AVe. Hepark

l'ew Jersoy

USA

Country

KIND OF BUSINESS retadt dept StOrANAME OF SUPERVISOR Lucille innin

TITLE OF JOB SaleSwan

_ SALARES 320 PER WK

YOUR DUTIEs selling alito accessaries to consumers

REASONS FOR LEAlINO _ entered collaga

..4 ...;

---

## Page 42

14-00000

•SEC. 15

HAVE YOU FVER KEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGY FRON AVY TOSITION?

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIKCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO

EXPLAIN?

GIVE DETAILS:

No

SEC. 18.

GIVE FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCES - IN THE U.S. - WHO KNOW YOU INTI-

MATELY - (GIVE RESIDENCE AND BUSINESS ADDRESSES WHERE POSSIBLE.)

Beroot and Number

1. Rev. Benedetto Pascale

166 kranislin_ St Belloville NJ

same

Yonkers-

deta

3. DI. Lester Be Heiss

1. l'e Ernest is Lat

8. IX. ialson Bricichan.

BUs. ADD. not known derraven Coun

RES. ADD. 36 Jiotchkiss Plüen laven Conn.

BUS. ADD. MORQ

RES. ADD. ADt 65, 70 Ceutical Ave

Nay laven

Conn

BUS. AND, not known

RES. ADD

CEC. 17.

NAMES OF FIVE PERSON'S WHO KNOW YOU SOCIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES -

NOT REFERENCES, SUPERVISORS OR EMPLOYERS - (Give residence and business ad-

dresses where possible.)

Beroes and Number

1. Wre Jack Rebinson_

BUS. ADD. 80 Atisinson si elles Palla Vt

RES. ADD. UnIYeUsIty of termant

2. DIa Flchard V. Meaney

BUS. ADD. not krown

RES. ADD. 20 Linehouse St Charleston Sü

3. DE. Anthony ie Savin

BUS. ADD. not known

RE3. ADD. 200 jOsieU Piery see Brenx ix.

1 it. Louls suindler

5. ?J. Ivar Sonnack

BUS. ADD. Dot known

RES. ADD. 135 ledden ter smar'

BUS. ADD.

Tale Univ let laven

_I.

Conne

RES. ADD. Jd BrosQwaY io, saken

---

## Page 43

4-00000

SEC. 18.

QIVE THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR LAST NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THE U.S. — (GIv

residence and business addresses where possible.)

sleet and Number

City

1. l'Je Sven Carlson

BUS. ADD. DOnA

RES. ADD. ZU CentrAl iya join taven Conn

'te trans allen

BU'S. ADD. nOne

RES. ADD. ZU CentrenI Alu len laves conn

slice lütlllan Dietrich

BUS. ADD. RODe_

RES. ADD. 20 Centra] Ive leil liaven Canni

SEC. 19. FINANCIAL BACKGROUND

A. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY? YES IF NOT, STATE SOURCES

OF OTHER INCOME -

B. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF BANKS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS lione

C.

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY? - 1io

GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDINO COURT:

GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES - IN THE US.

1. NAME Manne and See

ADDress roadst levari

liaitanco

3. NAME Di. Lester 3. Weiss ADDRESS

Hotcikiss Pl dew laven conn

3. NAME IT. Marry Snyder

TrE 9111lam St"bast. Orants jiJ

SEC. 21. RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST L/YEARS meo

FroM the to present STaft St. lutley

lew dersey

sey ravan

FROM UlY 16 TO June 49 Aot 62, 20 Ventral AVe Gaio

Conn USA

country

FROM Sept 140 leb 46. J3A Wakeside if lutley it

USA

Country

FRoM Jan 44 To Sept 41 347 Adams St favetterile IC USua

FROM LOV 43 To Jan 44 S/ cincht Church Str urtreesious Tenn

FROM let 42 To let 43 1131 Gladden ste lialums

FROM ANE 42 TO Qat 42

lollege it? ibilere Texas

USA

SEC. 21.. RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES

FROM JULy4Z TOJULY 4%.

FROM Sept 4170 Sept 41

CitY or BectIon

javana

Cily or Soc:ion

Cuba ousen

recreation

purpors

recreation

Purpom

---

## Page 44

14-00000

FROM

FROM

FROM.

то -

то -

TO .

Country

Country

Tir er stillon

Tar 501100

B. LAST US. PASSPORT - NUMBER, DITE AND PLACE OF ISSUS: liOne

PurDus

Purpos

HOW MANY OTHER US. PASSPORTS HATE YOU HAD?

- OITS APPROXIMATE

DATES:

PASSPORTS OF OTHER NATIONS: _UnQ

SEC. 22. CLUBS, SOCIETIES AND OTHER ORG.LVIZATIONS

LIST NAVES AND ADDRESSES OF ALL CLUBS, SOCIETIES. PROFESSION. SOCIETIES,

EMPLOYEE GROUPS, ORGAVIZATIONS ON ANY KIND (INCLUDE MENSEKEEP IN, OR SUP-

PORT OF, AVY ORGANIZATION HAVING IEADQUARTERS OR BRANCH IN A PUREION COUN-

TRY) TO WHICH YOU BELONG OR ILIVE BELONGED:

1. Aetlone onor Societi, Chap of levars dir

LISA

Country

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: -

10t to present

2. Phi Beta Kappa, Alnha

Name and Cbapter

1 of tiew liaven, tale, cora

VISA

Country

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

1915 to present

3.

Name and Chapier

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP.

St & sia

City

Stase

4.

Varie and Chupter

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

31 $ 10

City

STATE

5. Name and Chapter

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

St. & Na

CIty

SEACO

8. - Nare and hapter

DATES OF MENDERSHIP:

7. Nate and Chaster

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

SL & X0

CHLy

Stare

Si .8.0

Country

country

Countrs

Country

country

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SEC. 23.

GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS

A. FORTIN LANQUAGES STATE DEGREE OR PROFICIENCY AS "SLIGHT "FAIR" OR

LANGUAGE French

— SPEAK fluent READ fluent WaTE fluent

LANGUAGE German SPEAK Lair READ faIr WRITE _ {a15

LANGUAGE RUSSIaN. _ SPEAK f815

_ READ £815 :

_ WRITE fair

Chinese (north) fair

B. LIST ALL SPORTS AS HOBIES WHICH INTEREST YOU: INDECT DEGREE OF PRO-

CIENCY IN EACH:

Swimming

fair

sabinet cargentry.rood

HAVE YOU ANY QUALIFICATIONS, AS A RESULT OF TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE, WHICH

MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION?

_ Linguistica

D. LIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO

WHICII YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCE 1939:

State Dept-Foreign Service

Post Ofice, New haven, Conne

IF. TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAS CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF

YOU, INDICATE BELOW THE NAME OF THAT AGENCY AND THE APPROXIMATE DATE OF

THE INVESTIGATION:

State Department, February, 1949

11

---

## Page 46

14-00000

18

SEC. 24.

MISCELLANEOUS

A. DO YOU ADVOCATE OF HANS YOU EVER ADVOCATED; OR ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU

EVER 3EEN A MEMBER OR OR HAVE J'OU SUPPORTED ANY POLITICAL PARTY OR ORGANI-

ZATION WIICI ADVOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOV-

ERNMENT IN THE UNITED STATES?

•No

IF "YES", EXPLAIN: -

B. DO YOU USE, OR HAVE YOU USED, INTOXICANTS? - YeS

IF SO, TO WHAT

OXTENT?— VerY Eoderately

C. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF

LAW OTHER THAN A NATOR TRAFFIC VOLATION?

IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT,

CITY, STATE, COUNTRY, MATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE:

D.

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN COURT-MARTIALED WHILE A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES?

IF ANSWER IS "YES." GIT DETAILS BELOW:

SEC. 25. PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY:

NANAnna Mi. Snyder

c/o Dimeo

ADDRESS & Taft st

Meley

Hew

Jersey

Bi. & No

RELATIONSHiP

wife

State

USA

Country

SEC. 26.

YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ALL STATEMENTS MADE HERE-

IN WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORASUS INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED ABOVE WHICH

MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION, WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY

INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH NEGAT REQUIRE EXPLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE.

IF NOT, AN-

---

## Page 47

14-00000

SEC. 27.

I CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING ANSWERS ARE TRUF AND CORRECT TO THE

BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF, AND I AGREE THAT ANY MISSTATEMENT

OR OMISSION AS TO A MATERIAL FACT WILL CONSTITUTE GROUNDS FOR IM-

MEDIATE DISMISSAL OR REJECTION OF MY APPLICATION.

SIGNED AT lutley

New Jersey

CHET ADS BLALO

L DATE = June 1949

Cricard Fiples

USE THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR EXTRA DETAILS. NUMBER ACCORDING TO THE NUMBER

OF THE QUESTION TO WHICH THEY RELATE

SIGN YOUR NAME AT THE END OF THE ADDED

MATERIAL.

IF ADDITIONAL SPACE IS REQUIRED USE EXTRA PAGES THE SAME SIZE AS

THESE AND SIGN EACH SUCH PAGE.

• SEC.. 8..

FATHEN-IN-LAW (by remarriage; 1.e., "lfe's stepfather)

FULL WANE:

Carmen

None

Paganell1

LIVING OR DECEASED: Living

PRESENT ADURSSS: 6 l'aft St. lutley New Jersey

USA

DATE OF BIRTH: 1 Jan 1887 PLACE OF BIRTI: Cudello

IF BOR! OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DARS AID PLACL OF ENTRYS

Larch 23, 190)

ew tors olty

CITIZENSHIP: not aü. S. cilizen

OCCUPATIOli: Laborer

LAST BIPLOYER:

Selt

Italy

SEC. 12 EDUCATION: (Cont'a)

COLILGE Tale Unir. trad School

DACES ATTENDED 1948-1949

COLLEGE University of Grenoble

DATES

ATTBIDED

Sunmer 1945

ADDRESS New Haven, Conn USA

DEGREE None

ADDRESS Grenoble, Isere, France

DIGREN Certificat D'Etudes

13

• Men o

i !

---

## Page 48

4-00000

14

SEC. 14. ¿PIONENT (Cont'd)

6. From seet 1940 to sor 1945

• S. ArIy

inlisted men, Ist sgt of Liedical Detachment

to July: 1942.

ded Dept Cus, July to Oct,

1942. Orficer, platoon comdr.

compary catar, to dor, 1945.

Demobilised

7. From sept 1938 to Sept 1940

Hahne and co

Broad st.

Newark

Retail dopt store

Stocimen (started as busboy)

new Jerse.

USA

Eugenie Murphy

$18 por wk

filling orders and managing stockroom.

Inducted

8.

Fron Jan 1938 to Sept 1938

Unenpiojed

Lo it re pet arent winston du laboring and gardening jobs

9. From Dee 1937 to Dee 1937

Hahne and Co

Eroad St.

Tomerk

Retail deyt store

Stockboy

New Jersey

USA

Eugenie Murphy

$13 per wk

Stocking Christaas boxes

Seasonal

10. FOr 10321029 1937

"e jeremont miness

various short and casual jobs, actended rational Guar

encasurent at sea

brezises, in lew versty a to ived with friends or on jos

11, From June 1933 to June 1937

Attended Figh School

12. From July 1936 to Sept 1936

Good Zugur Corp

Newark

Ner Jersey

Ice crean vanders

Vender

USA

not known

approx. $10 per wis

Sold ica crean fros Dicycle

Seasonal

SEC: 20. RESIDSiCES (Cont'd)

Fron Tuna, 1942 to July, 1942

Fron Laj, 1942

to Fine, 1942

FION AFFiL 1942

•: Jay, 1942

Dittenore's Auto Court

Pacific Hgwy

Lakewood

lash USA

4133 So. i st So. Taicone tash USA

Na *giez St. lacima ilash list

---

## Page 49

14-00000

Fon Feb. 104?

From Jan 1948

to reb 1942

2144 lhite St. Alexandria -La USA

From Sept 1941 to Dec 1941

1022 Grove St. Charlotte. N. C, USA

From Aug 1938 to Sept 1941 649 Stuyvesant Ave. Irvington N. J. USA

Fron hay 1938

to Aug 1939

no perm. address

N. J. USA

tO det 1939-40-tay 1939c10 Walther Park St Blue Fense CeR

→N. I. USA

Ffon Oft 1938 to lay 1933

Jones' Boarding House

Newark Ave.

Elizabeth AX N. J.

USA

Fron July. 1937 to Oct 1937

cowalther Park St. Bluo Point L.

I.

Y.

USA

Fron

From

?

lewark

Fróm

8. 1935 to July 1937 667 Bor gen St. Newark

1934 to

? 1935 670 Bergen St.

?

1926 to

1934 811 Bergen St. Newark

N. J.

USA

N. J.

USA

N. J.

USA

SEC.

10-RELATIVES LIVING ABROAD ETC.

sister of

CITIES: SHIP: Italian ADviSS:

Cucello

Italy

Kichards.afugcte

15

- tocaa...

---

## Page 50

APPROVED FOR RA RASE ISS

CM HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMS

END

OF

CIA

PERSONNEL

FiLES

---

