# 104-10192-10121

## Page 1

1-010000

104-10192-10121

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Backgrownd Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TRANSMITIAL

OF.:

- TOCS INPORMATION REPORT

0e1r..

ASSER

14

ROU

SECRET

Et?

S8 1109

155474

TDCS DB-3/662,009

омАном СОРИ

CT/OPS, ST/IC,

MID, FLINT 6, I7. CA 3, CAPEG, DODS, ME 6. AM 14

DC DADCH DDPLADDP/

SAN OMar.

"PRECEDENCT

013

TION

SA/int

WH BER

Lx 1217

SHOT oil

Liaison C24

SA/MOB. E.23

AVA LATON

MOUTSTED

"STATE

HANGING INSTRUCTIONS

AeriY

New

RECOMMEND: FOR EXO

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN DISSEX ABROAD/ BACKGROUND USE ONLY

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

NUTHENTICALINE OFFICIE

CLASSITCATON

SECRET

JURE 7iL

COCCOTATNO EARLIE 03

ME/BCER Harrison (by phone)

WH. SA SO-Rodriguez (1n draft)

6P litter (by phone)

703

5810

---

## Page 2

NO PORFIGI MISSEN ROLLED DISSES NO DISCER A ACUO MARA PORDISE OSTY

SECRET

COMIRÄL INTRILIOINCE AGINCY

• HOUZ18L

Intelligence Information Cable

COLITY CUBA/LATIN AMERICA

DAT O MARCH 1864

агра

TOCS D8-3/661,009

aSiR: 5 MAY 1961

SUBVECT

I."

PRESSURE BY VINEZUELAS OFFICIALS FOR ACTION

AGAINST CUBA

PLANS OF MALEL ARTIVE TESA

FOR ATTACK ON CUBAN MAISLAND

CRESS OF JURR 21-22 MIRCH 1961

TTE SDB-3/660,668

24

C5-3/580,172

FIELD REPORT NO.

AND.

MANSAL AN OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE,

1.

IN MID-MARCH 1981 A CUBAY EXILE WHO SUPPORTS THE SUBAN

BILLE ORGANIZATION HOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONAHIA (ARR,

NOVELENT POR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERI), PHICH IS LED BY MASLE ARTIME

BUESA, CLAINED THAT FORMER PRISIDENT RONLLO BETAICOURT OF VENEZUELA

AND ENRIQUE TEJERA PARIS, THE VENEZUELAN AUBISSADOR EN WASHINGTON,

ARE PRESSING HARD TOR ACTION AGAINST CUBA. HITH THE FORCE OF

ELECTORAL PRESSURE HOUNTING IN THE UNITED STATES, ARTINE; WITH THE

BACRING OF THE CINTRAL INTELLIGEYCE AGEYCY (CIN), IS "WHITING IN

THI VIMGS."*

2. ARTIHE HAY DELAY HIS PLAYS FOR AN ATTICK ON THE CUBAN

MAINLAND IN ORDER TO AMAIT THE OLTOONE OF THE PROJECTED NEETING OF

TORLIGA MINISTERS OY TRE ORGANIZATION OF AXERICAN STATES (OAS) TO

SECRET."

ORA

NO FOREIGA DISSIS CONTRO HID DISSES!

NO DISSEL ABROAD RACKGROUND U'SE ONL'Y

DD! : FXQ

---

## Page 3

CINNRCITON DENIMTON COMTROLS

3-E-C-R-B-T

DO TOREIAN DISSEN COYTROLLED DISSEW

TOCS DH - 3/661, 009

SO DISSEA AAROAR/BACKGROLND USE ONAX

CUUN

DISCUSS/SUBVERSION IN LATIN ANTRICA, HOWEVER, THE URR DOLBTS

THAT THR ONS FILL AGREE TO SETECTIVE SANCTIONS AGAINST CUBA.

3. ON AS NARCH 1968 A LEADING MIXBER OF THE JUNTA:

BAPOLUCIONARLA GURAXA (JURR, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUSTA) CLAINED

THAT SO FAR AS JURE CAN ASCIÄTAIN THE ERR POSSESSIS SHALL

TRAININO CALAS IN NICARAGUA AND COSTA RICA ONLY.

1. ON 17 MARCH 1966 A JURS LABOR LIADER VRO REVEALED

THAT A JURA PORKERS CONGRESS DOULD BE HELD IN PUZATO RICO

PRON 20 TO 88 KUBCH 1804, SATO THAT SANTIAÇO POLANCA ABRET,

TAX PRESTODIT OF TUR PURETO RICAY BOUSE OF REPRESEVATIVES,

HAS TO ADDRESS THE CONGRESS.

ITEMS ON THE AGENDA AT THS

A. TRADE BATTLER CUBA ANO THE MISTERY NATIONS.

B. LATIN AMERICAN TRADE-UNION SUPPORT FOR SURE.

C. TUTURE INTSRUTIONAL RELATIONS OF THE CUBAN EXILE

TORIERS. NOvSusiT.

IND OT MESSAGE

NO 408810NDI1

BOLLED DISSEUNO DISSEX ABRUAD/BACKGROUND LISE ONLY

CAMARUTOM O TROS AROMATON NORT

---

