# 104-10170-10168

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10170-10168

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

WHEN MED TO

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRiDE TO FLING

Filin sas i sa bart Dalach back pass is f

2

signine soon clue or cigarent tequil.

ing perseer darcia

FROM:

_ 10: ACTION BENNCH

insert props lilo no, belt did tartard

dilTinealto RiD/AN.

MET FILE NO.

FIOr

RID/AS

EXI: TET)

• TO

ALL ADORESSEES

FILL IN RECTION I ON BEIN IN APPRONRIATE

COMMINTS

EN-478

GA 80

TUSS OTT.

DATE

merrinto! singanges

OFFICIA

cul

E/G/ 4-C-41

cic (3x)

MICROFILMED

MAY:

19i0

DOC MICRO. SER.

13 SK

A--N

CI/RA

P. Helman!

111) AN 122P21870

18.

T2..

T3.

T3.

:6.

17.

RW/F1

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICAOPILNLS

=01?

6t 8:

This stones

aly x-rafid. To M HURDER

s//C

rik this stainie be

sid

RETURN TO CIA

- «Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

dranged having suffered

Unicorn

FILE

- 1-300-017

200-700-100-300 19/7

DOCINENT DATE

NUMEST NIVEL

3, 7a1)5

2?

U/6R

---

## Page 2

SEur

PROLTSSING ACTION

DISPATCH

CLASSHIMOBINN

SECHET

_XXX.

ONIY QUANNO CUSA

ALTION AFQUIRID - MATIALIS

AUTION REUIREDI FIl and passage to LNERGO I desired.

REFERENCE

• DOBM-88312, 2 July 1919

li: Forwarded Herewith for Headquarters 13 a document recently

received from the Chier of tho Allens Police of Department Il of the

(U West Berlinipolice concerning the Richard Case NAGrill affair.

documont. was received by the Allens Police Jia the mails in a lottor

addressed diructly lo the Allens Polico intest Berlin Dihe envolojo

was destroyed by the clerk who opened it and chero l5

wily of knowls, whether it was malled in the United States ur olsewhero

or ino the sunder wies.

it has ovidently been publiuhed by NObl himsolf.

2. The attachment may la of interest to LNiRGO.

Infield A. CALVIN

Miline

Ättachments

As Stated

Distributions

K/C/EUR w-att: (1 cy) h/:

-vos, Germary n/ ate

15-13

1jr0

pries

* 85)

i,..

i1.i

Latt N/IN

CROSS RIFERENCE NO

1200-128-102

C3 0371

DESPAION STMABOI ANO NUMBER

E0N225:473

MASSOSICATION

S*:C.R.ET

100-300-17.

MAN TIYO

DATE

31 March 1970

1500-124-102-

TORE ITHI

7/BR

---

## Page 3

cianá de lue piment uridiãs mediin itio

"me.

'aiar, sé lipp dtn had susia-od arcalo as 290. .15J:

Anres ra tfare nl Mus Cramin däl Mume to rinriereit

Commaire dle tadl male pne si

Ared iot he ermunred sraei e or mont to me el

WILLIAN

MANTIM

НОД! ВІГЙОГРі ТіТО

IN T11%

Ad States Court of

TOR MIE PITIS CLRC

No:: 31680

ovogains

TUCHIARO CASE NAC

viton

Irhard C.

sar.ell

is "GrÄnd Arenue

Inviis taland

X'ATES OF ANTRIÇA

• N'ro

diatells

MAN IU THE CIECIEIEA

iassi pes

NI)

MICROA

n The

Độc.

NºiC

inside story

Danger:

• 19д

TITE FASHENGTOY POST

mro Assassination of

TVLy E. Germany Frees

Ane bink

lestelr

Will

U.S. Ex-Officer

SS/On sther han 1o o

son; however rempor

0xl:.fr

Kennedy

rontidered a hie o

Life

đt sour le

ioui

inese Trader Warned Diir

1871

ncos ";

idros hat

silem

asion

oroua no pocer degoo

Arrrdesnd

CLANTRICiTION STLDY

comaresie rese

yeciib, Richart iaso

ANTNET SRGSA

Toe raspy sic0 allras ibn

ror on uare--

milias

1630 CLEN - V2233

(s CenY

A3ЛEX-BLS

•181n6

aake

• optrisono.

raro today apoxo

jarrioon.

and

': "eo kno

10÷

pudo,

kevo volumes in

su, nos caxo the Xon Xo

csartiado

to whloh you ro

,RlsDard C.

Undar

APSTPYAY

OANXU ST

-SDERAL

30)

jork

•At?

100-300-017

OxPArerMer.

id stare i Ci

Madoll

ernorwio,ro

176-102

---

## Page 4

28 January 1070

Washingion, D.C.

An aditor of a trado journal, uhoa l firsi sel uhilo on

an intelligonco assignment in Latin doorica, hao urgod so

sor sone line lo sake public the faces dealing with ay

involverent. in a conspiracy

¡'to murder the lato chief

Exocutivo, . John fo Konnody, in 1963 and the circuastances

surrounding ay arrest and imprisonment in the Unicod Stalen

and Baat Cermany..

Por reasone that aro sore personal then

adviaablo I can

think of lifelo else that 1 rould liko to do

better.

But with the copious anount. of documentation and

background material on hand, that i real should

be adduced

to. in any valid troatico of the subject,

it mould require

writing no loss than i tone,

an underlaking for which i am

hardiy qualified.

Then, 10o, there in a groming akorticion

on my part concorning the kind of rocoption that a topic of

this nort would

elicie iron a docioly long sinco inured to

violence, corruption and injustice.

Still, after ovor oix

yours of relativo silonce, I've docided that I aust. osy

somothing about all

this, ir only to angror the lies and

disiortiona concoctos aboul me in the press. Thua, I havo

compilod thia amall booklor, a chromanay.

which

nay bo

easily discarded at the thia of the rontor. In it l'vo

taken the liberiy to see forth a reproduction of one of the

least canitizod references to my cene that has arpeared in

tho novo medio..

an article printod last ruener in she

OVERSEAS FAMILY, a rookly tabloid cetoring to U.s. service-

uen in Europo.. I haro utilized

this perticular articlo us a

rohicle

lo call à bid'of sy oido of tho story by ariting an

addendum

to it.

R. C. Naçoll

---

## Page 5

The FAMILY

Friday, drie 80, 1938

'O want

find my children'

Ex-Army spook who lingered Oswald clalms Uncle Som hides his lamily I by Thomas & Lucöy

UNG Me to be here anot

wos.olroid ho: would bo hilled.himself.

he en-Army coploin was convicred o

he crime and sent to leovenworh, bu

Mis: Nogall was never told where tie wös:

But whet this ex Army counterspy and

•Since Then Nogel has been

• written

al'aged ClA undercovermon wonti ie phat

obout in national: American mogorines

casino seal homies to locate he se

childien.

ost "German

ar-old former officer hornt

1963.

do the redero: Govern

oly: F.80 and

ClA deent

in they are and deliberotity

family, the toll, leon

ClA assignment inside East Germany

Nagell

come to

Europe

in februory

1989 on o hunch that the path to me lom•

ly stärted in West Berlin

1 Zurich he wor

almostkiliad ho says. In Barcelona. m

wo worched. And in West Berlin he woe

attacked

bar: by

t00

become

seporoled from his.

born

wito

Miniuko Tokohaiti

children, Tereso, now 9, önd Ro.

10bbing

was

arrested for

on El Poso,

1963.

Tex:, bonk in Sep:

Ho sioned the robbery and immedi.

¿loime, becauso

claime bendered to ta pelice; No ell

ho had relused to

tennedy:disassin leatlorvey Oswold and

for the CIA

two

Nobeli

nojor mocatines intimated that

•been

cl ottorney lim Gor.

TIOn

iowed Nogell three

times

isial probo of what

he called tha

plot to kill Kennedy,

• Howöver

about.

despite

tha

publicity

bren made.

of his chorges thair

public mention hos

ecial agents who questioned

Mrs. Nage!

er hüsband

while he'

was in

prison said they didn't know

where to:

was;

ho ClA used the promise of reinit.

no Nagell with. his tomily as.part.of the

incontive tor him to undertake a one moni

fearing that the next aracker might

murdor. him and inossured that the Gov.

pinment would linally

keep its promise

his time, Nogell llew home lo the Uniter

Stoles

Now he's bock where he storted in

1863. - when ho ripped off tho FBI that

Oswald was planning to assossiriate Pres-

ident Kennedy.

Working through o source with accose

documents on the

Nogell case.

FAMiLY nor been able 1o reconshuct Mis

incredible story of the spy who couldn't

corrie in from the cold.

ICHARD CASE

Negril lorst went

CIA

the

an

.in-

formant

[яті 1982

the

tour In

Onwald. sle told him he was an

with the CiC and

Intelligenco man

not a killer.

and he couldn't i

kill Orwald.

work coN

hart hastes

iren instructed io do.

about

ion plane lo

Miraclot d.

Tagar Hoover

W'asrlseren..

lever: didn't

reply, but

Nazell didn't espect

perted to be

brietly

For say tere

By that time the

would be over and

3 br sale.

Apparentiy Nagell felt Doller

rustraly would keep

him nale

from the

l'la and

aroarsina.

from

Mo

learnd

because

don't

the

CIA

TakE

of'.

Не

feared

саго

tho

*In

wrors

that

Title nodes

letter from

warted lo knam

hustand

wins and

miy hadn't

heard: frum him

"Here in

Мгт.

lamell'a lerter on

lice paren

HenrIrate

Richard Magoll: a soli-doludod crank or

un perore serieriments

the limy.

CIC

enrard in firld of.

Mena

winn

Unint states und

huss-nünh

Intrillerace in

itr

balletaid

Pam 140R

BASICIA

53%

973

wanled that letter

Nacell

considera

Onsield.

as a master of mrord.

intelligent.

WeTt

Using

nast-

h1s

Air.

Dy

Triving

Rein think

maile

тал.

dirtenitrly

She We*An

small sats ho

was going to do numelling, you

knew he meant 18,'

Sander us a trital.

hoardl

ranths

the

bulleun

ward

belore

mentinn

aurI

septernbeer

Orwaid

sold

Dep-

ciran

publle

Thie

skirte."

"TRI

he mient

miler held Nagel!

davi.

the Thi has questioned her a

rew days or pore about her hue-

and!

The FAt know

frorie

1a41

UrCh

indian ma

Ґіля-ll

nst

1raC UT

ruler

cut

April:

savenwore

1. 191

rison, Mazeli

was

afire. he had

equiltal on

eras

•P.38

ire

Is te tired

Stales

Mus the ira!

рута

shoe

Star and: tarta Putye Hearta

rurt instrucins

oud and my

aupervision

Dun

inod

a fort

hia

3280-1

No-

arto printerin

atratin

miaszon al loe anitar.

Mine

"те."

amrordine lo

- finenibly

• bianeed so ant..

inallane in

CAsI

Tito

argan.

use

States

"Him" was

1srn

oraly

CIA

rontacl.. Amantint

FAMILY • SOUTTE

tell a in-

cort al

mon

tou

Agita

• nod.

Uhia time

ensurth. peni

date.

bạnk.

reuing

nnedy

troi

caplan

allowe

• and

fAT-

man

tills.

Chla

unidentified

- wr

rooper.

allon la prison."

"то.

cold

AMY. -209

---

## Page 6

The FAMILY

CASE OF CHARACTERS:

Richard Nagill woe quer.

soned by Now Oroans

D. A. JIm Gurrison bo

Magall claims ho li

Konnady assassin loo

ray Orwold while working

för lhai CIA. Magall oldo

pays U.S. Öovernmont oft

ciale laolorad him 1rom his

to childran attor the as.

rossinallon.

14

alill toas

not fist

the

Talan

prenhment

for

the

Im-

Blates

In sirw lock Nazall kept an

ananiment, wuh a Cia nit.

crat

Mirchiel

The ClA rificial sold Nogall tie

sle had di.

a hile he

tournennin

Alismuch. Earl Germany and he

wrild be arrested

"The main

of

hie

imprimmmor.!

tong

niterer

Us

ras'al

who had allendly

freird

cue 1!

there

informalion

possible

ni fertininurs

Intermention

mann termention

he alrinal hate a valle traneut

-Thes

drose

derman

Erfurt

(an

wher, No.

Aril man held for thrre days in

a Bale house la pervato home

There wome men in

Nasell

she viclim of dagger-in-the-back ClA tacties?

nealall ll me mira

lose Nraall Pro Minivr

for. suFF

Mildren

0118!

s111s Mie mito

Nagall

met

be

bespend for another ClA asslen.

the NIS (Fast German Munalry

saurens

rrythink

wrnt

astoraling

Clae plan - up to a

In Zurich, Nreall yo

hIs ClA

City did he do herk lo the

Neat he mus driven to a

¿ass Merlin patilecal prison lo.

They

nieusail hum of espeonder an

wald they

were on to thr

hom

•Nägell had bron trid thal it

nire Ihrer mutthe, hin polesse

s..nrd.

the

•Pirouse o8 tre

dinananal situations

Nacril Illrd la Turnn

"Bluelne his

dituations with

Hurrel

anntiere man In

New

and

York."

underatantine

nore dimirit

reunill

tine the ClA spent

in have

to Nacril

Is and him, Ihe train

parimens numimi

on his roser.

Nasalt

inks hurt.

No

MANGIE

around

stopped ulter crossing lha

Numan lit Fain

German Prarder

corell bras

fel

train and clamp durin

divertly is

rom-

parlmene." the

mere! wo

Poorm ant loo

men

They

in coritien

for

piar

Mirer

munths and he

there

so thank

sell

CIA

quite

frankly.

and

Dren

une 80.6.

oud of meht or to per and

of him

hec

do

buy

lecter.

Swiluertand

from

Pà.

- Last

The

would io

Blert tor mis transal 911a.

disn't

know

what

they

an reirased on Orroter

23 lle didn't krino no

тав ло.

ine, to to releasid until tre

lo.i

lund

hern as Sardania.

brun'ke"

W'ertend lo mort Nagall were.

arminding in the arurce.

# Andor

sales.

rad of th

merlin:

a cell.

f'rb.

and

priat francis liary

spies and

wr.9494044

norsematier - nuta

fine

ЛіТТГУ

unter str

at -

a renter son.

27₫

torard

a mirtor. Tries

he astral

norten

He NeT

no: Ve

brEan 10

1008-810

aletpo. he had 10.0r

not. 10e

real name

ICAps

now Mass

merlin.

Polesh simon ana

• An

Nacell

US

thT

послича

the kiall Germans" the source

1a11

W'ashingion leo yet Nove mas

continund

•Natardy else

coffee

Nasell. drank

olin orna

mile

18 was

Binri but 18, laserd mart bister

ordinary

rofite. ApprORI-

Here minter 1r

sin't think ive shrald tall lo

ark la Zuria bor

his talencines

certain dra

plenie of thom

Tempelt.!

compenin him

a-s walted un.

munted in

Time

durane

dare.

Some

time surge mor

¿'his deebll.

18V-Naкmi

eriting

precent subdi filterina.

(Conenund on Nell Page)

STEREO CARTMIDGE STE GAG-E

one of the finest cartridges ever produced.

floi credied the lines

Soo your neares Audio Club or willo lo:

ALLIED GINIRAL SION GMOM MS WOLLCANO MANAU. PageR HOrse Stare Il. Tal 0618) 5059).

---

## Page 7

and

Mimin. hin

"Put"

л:ч0

drastristy

im 100.

ene

biturale.

- ant Nirw

in prod.

alaying

avray

nicht 8o

fall

divini't ar

Berlin

Herzo

traklion

Kitzingen

O gau

Airbert t0 sa rivellan

Tos 1001 AG

Rothwesten

Stuttgart

Wiesbaden

•Your Aiudio Chis hos lbe

NEW 110-WATT SCOTT 342C

The

World's Most Advanced Receiver

BanA

phands la Scon'o

dorolopod

echniques Pernied circuil modulos anop

MITONI IPPERIRO

Non fC O circuitry - for virtually dratuacro tree lietening.

volume le ris tano pome

infore aily oton you connect

perra apridia,g Score o'so trot-ri

a siamo. pia'el fEl lront end

Ilearared Circol lf 1h.o. lL MearDiret, Ili lone control

GET FULL DETARS AT TOUR AUCIO CLUS

ANO CHECK THE AMAZINE CON MATTARY PRICHI

HSCOTT

Scort International Maynard, Moss.

01754

The FAMILY

fair.

Mirra

НАці!

sacril mar trlu..

manind tre

trarn Rip

mumal. to.

the

• No

Ror Bho 1' 5

drin't

от іла чр.!

varrulalo

quand to ani

Aiuti m

the

aniti chal ha

Stain

mar

Naorll waltrd

state.

neiver

n hen

1n1K

cailel

the:

nn.

1191r451

incere

guiremelaren.

in.

dotermine

mers

80

тиня

fach

anton te

Maltimors

Maltral Conter

ne finalers

kn

Fame, na

help

l0 Lumipe.

tiras his

triou

from

city

thert

cineniral le lre

chief Mr.

Sent tu the

mentorr of 1h01

Nagell lo cire

telerm

onr

ther

Niagel!'s

Itfe

celori

125

1wn

That

•"A Danten

il!

i re

10

1n0t.

diarrit

"renite"

Friday, Suso 80: 1098

«TITUTTIM

Kopmes Mell in the 1

oiun

Soler, " 199

murce rienund. "piay finally

210n. 8h 18 18.1

hirl fuor

unabile

lorato sierill e choldren

Pur nut orre contenuine threu

affarta

lo 80

8ro 1906

Älatro

an lonia sis

thr scate Irperimenl was con-

Periene ihrer ilforte"

inintina'

mirt

tral

parlatenei

turenir and

On Aprit 10 pr 30 Nasali mal.

Irit he man undit surrrillanin

-Arount 80 30

thie

nient

of Aßfl 22 Narall was walk.

Ine down

wharn

Киттистайстиатт.

Me hai:

marinund

PLa 1211.-

1hem.

Hanall then wrat row.

fr serrat and inin a small mer

Pauran8 wilA a bar.

Lalhine.

aiw the for newn and

leil phr mrri he dis:..

German unen he saw one ries

ermethene

n8 his cammel

N.iert

was his'en the

of the head."

fober

hacl

Americano

from

Brillan

the

CID.

esentellve

parontly the

alle strort was in

¡hr lirillen Sailor and o mimi-

of the

paulicil

parline."

nuota

urn in tho

Naged

allorn cand

he

св: адотя.

sierra subis

ma' he tuid

traponsabilily

sinard terraust

she plack in

the Army

Mola in

the

had

?..

erlin.

Canni

he wort te

cloth-

PT010010d

police inint

sdentlly.or

replied

merely

ahroadt.

mine

and

tre story

mfir

mart that

180

mier

wrurnd

Hut

the

Hut shurly affit

placat

neolore

Seales

Thuls where le apparerily

13 n0w

19a. per aloule of his

---

## Page 8

In thio addendum to tho

i Have su: sought to refuse er

every assertion

made ky its nuthor, Thomas C. Licer.

Mr. Lucey, despise

hia citine o subalantial runder of inaccuracies,

has nonetheioss sericied a vast area se

what.may. be terned.the

with this in xind, are fried

only insofar

co those iranoracies - and omissione

= which in my opinion roflect adversely on the whole.

view Mr. Lucey'e account in a sonorhat differine perepeclive.

firet mont to work for the Central jieiligence Agency

carlior than lurust 1962.

during the wintor of 1955-S6,

mile assigned as a Case

Revier Officor with the Counter Intelligence Corpo at Los Angeles, that I mao initially

recruited into the ClA's farflung notwork of informants and agents. one of a

within tho defonge Dopartrent's intelligence concurity to helped the agency

keep an oye on its not always tame coaretitor. ly recruitnent wes handled by a Herbers

Leibacher.

an agent of the CIde los ingeles office, and a Joe Daisson, later identified

to me through

photographs

from CIA headquirters,

then located on "E*

Motivated by a duproe of naivete ass she Nency"s subtle

reminders that I

owed a creater duty

to ay country than to the military establishment,

served

non-paid; confidential inforrant off and on until ar resigration from the

Army in October 1959.

A complote description of the information I supplied to the Agercy

during my military cereer would only add to what must perforce becare a len thy nadendus;

may.

it

suffice to say that it did not almoye seem germane to inielligence affairs,

but

when it did it consisted mainly of an assortment of data that for so-called discretionary

Beldon

passed on

to.

acholons) through regular channels.

the

Agency, Tor for that mazier, to our oun highér

Lucey'g

intelligence

murriod to a foreign matisuai neant an automatic

work so Nopoll decided to leave the Arty," is misleading end

incorrect in

The only military intelligence orestization from which en

individual is.

subsequent to marrying à foreiga sational is the CIC -

primarily a security type orgen and this rule doos, not necessarily apaly unen the ngent

enliated man or warrent

As a commissioned efficer.

I ins declared

inoligible for further dury with the CIC effective 14 Arril 1959,

a sull year after ry

national.: I was not barred from assig-me=: to other, even more

as Field Operations Intelligence, then the clandostire

espionage department of military intelligence.

As for the reasons I left the Army, they

in my second letior cê resignation,

detes

31 August 1959, namelys

"I desire to tender. oy rosignation because I wish to further ty

civilian

education.

It is

not possible for me to pursue the curriculur of which I ar

desirous

while

on

activo duty.

Also, compussionate reasons of a personal nture exist

• 'for desiring to tender my resignetion at this time."

Ky patronage under the

did not ond with my dischur, e from she Army and ensuing

employrent

investipator for the state oi Cslifornia;

in face,

henceforth I was offered remunoration for my servicce,

however norital it sometimes uns.

What my now taske

is of no real pertinence to this sidendon or to later

developments,

• to mention that one of my contecis. said he roried out of

"Domestic Intellirenco,"

the forerunner of the present-it cosestic Operations

Division,

illegally keeps taba on a wide range of American cirillen orinnizations

and activities.

should sloo point out that I did

not quit ry posicion with the State

of California

"¿o work for the CIA,"

I mis disnissed, in June

1962, at my own option and in my opinion

as implied by Mr. Lucey me tonine sonth I wes

doing my job.

shot through the right

jurine an altercation with a persos nose identity I hère

never

not through the left cheat by myself,

ro wife,: un

Alcoholic

Beverage

inspector

then under investigation or by a los dories police officer

"becauso of connunistic implications,"

as has been reported at various lines by various

sourcos):

For the next year, from

approxinately the middle of Augure isco until sy arrest in.

---

## Page 9

Texan on En Septether 19€3, 1

emplojed

the

Arency

occurAtely

described

in a capricity which can bo

AS

that

or

on erent, in

evory sense of lie word.

My assignmenta

varied nnil necessitated tra.:el to three Latin

American nitions and anny sintos, including

the connonmenlth of fuerto Rico.

Thay

alro

necosritnted my inkine on cover caployment

for one week in

Nex

York und for about ten seeks in Los angeler,

though usually I pooed

85. 8

courier,

investigator.

for.

che: Immigration & Uncuralization Service

or но a

researcher: for

& private fir,

CIA.

the appropriate

crolentialo being furnishod lo no by

cho

To sunil up briefly,. I operated in loxico City ne tho onset of the Cuban Missilo

Criois in en

effort

aised

chiefly

the Soviet covernoont;

I conductod inquirios

relative. to

"dissidens"

members

0.f.

Stateci: I

several

Cuban refugue groups based in the Uniled

chocked out

allerod connection between a Hindi rorident noned. Eladio Dol

Valle ind New Orleans CIA informant Sergio Arcocha-Smith;

¡ investigated an nosocialo of

the

.nov

daceaned right-ving

David W. Ferrie of New Orlonno,

as I did the

activities

of left-wingers

laughn L. Snipes and

vito,: Priscilla,

nour Venico;

Californio, and others; I conducted a surveillance an a man,

said to have been an ex-cIA

omployoo, Observed talkine to uRP

leader Manuel Artine and forner Cuban senator/rackoteor

Rólando Mnsferrer,:! inquired into on allegation that Murina Oswald intended lo divorco

her hugband ind return to the U.S.S.R. (although I never stated that I mot her personally,

no was cororted by the FBI and Secret Service),' and I performed courier duties and actod

as a cut-out.

Al: the time

of my arrest I was operating in an undercover role,

bacone. involved.

in a donectic-inspirod plot to assaasinato Precident Kennedy and,

enotriso ostenribly, othor highly-placed government officials.

225

having

Ur. Lucey goes on to state that ny last assignment al the tire "was to penotrato cho

Fair Play for Cuba: Committee, *hero ho

met Osinld.

Such atatement is also ircorroct.

was never a member,

boná-fido or otherwise, of the FFCC.

And my conversationa with FPCC

functionarios

like Steve

official of the socialiot Workero Porty al Los

could hardly be construed as a penotration.

l'urchormoro, I had been introduced

lo HT. Oswald long before the FICC cane into existence, ilbeil under an anguned name.

As to the allurion that I told "Bob" I nas an intelligenco nan, not a killor.

therefore I couldn't kill Mr. Orwald,

roforenco is true its connotation io

I had killed beforo and I had participated in homicides under the auspices of

boch ul and the CIA lone instanco boing the part I played in the February 1958 abduction-

interrogatión-nurder of an FOI agent, a U.S. soldior, USCT Ennott E. Dugan,

from Crafton,

having defocted in place to the Chineso), under the puiso that an

•of the Sovie. "not affair" mas tho only allornativo, that it vas

effort or in the best interento of our

8. similar-sounding argument, ultimately roducod to a

that was advanced to me by

Robort Crahas as an incentivo to dierodo of Mr. Onwald

in Sopteaber 1963.

But sy rofusal to do so had absolutoly

no bearing on the reason

offouting my arrest in the nannor. I chose, nor did it encondor in no. for of roprisal by

Perraining to sy arrest." and

convictions

preas have so reatly labeled as being for

at El. Pago -bank

Texas, which the official

let ono of

the government's oun spurious recordo,

aprolato court decision that finally yaunod a

judgement of acquitial in

entoring a faderally insured bank with intent to rob.... " Tho chargo vas thes,

give its versions.

and is noo.

record aptly ignores is

tho: fact that tro juries,

incended by the prosecution's innuendoes in and out of tho

courtroom land by the rasificationa of perjurod

testinony and a false Bureau of Prisono

roport sale available to the jury

¡lo daliberationg at the second trial - though

never forually admitted into evidence)

that I vas a Communiot,

no doubt à vory

trico convicted no of having

"intonded" to take by force and violenco one hundrod dollaro

worth of Travolors Cheques from a bank'toller.

shall not horoin

atroupe so: list oven generally cho injusticos to shich I sao

subjocted by a corrupe judicinl syoion, nor shall i bother to onumerate ino crueltion

---

## Page 10

inflictod uron se shilo confined in sundry Texna

Mont of chea are adequately

no is Leniontores renitentiary.

writ of Unbons Corpus,

detailed.

1067 Memornnilua in suppore of resicion for

snorn to an' subocribed before lillian R. Unrein la former seabor

of tho CId's Dirty Tricko Division, uho by his orn adnission is ardll in "che reserves").

Bul I ohall opino that if frositer! tennody hal not ret his. demiso uhen and thore he did,

I rould not hero boon broughe do trial on charree of conniting a felony.

milo my return to the fold of cho cla in Uny 1969 nay haro been che only "practical

thing" for no to do, it definitely vas

old bank account passbooks will susstantinto (I am not quito the norcenary that ur. Lucoy

has portrayed).

on tho

Nor was it because of any peculiar allegiance to thoso who had tossed no

scrup heap for the anto of expediency at yoors earlier, love of country, nasochis-

tie condencios or vont of further intrigue.

that the sole

And

while

i rocaing axionalic in my mind

roguinito for one's uno by the aconcy io his qualification to rie into

chatover nay happon to bo tho scheno of thingo,

circusatanco, not really.

this did not apply in ay

I agroed to so back oui into the cold, so to speak, strictly

for persoral: reasons and I think the explanation in migoly loft no that for now.

My mission inside saal Gerzany - if indood il mio a nission - ma neithér no voll-

defined nor no alonentary na ur. Lucey has porcoivod.

Bure

the CIA knows all it

inoodo to knor about American defectoro in Borlin and the nodus operandi of the ufs.

fact,

sho mission was not directod againot: Bast: Cormany, por so.

In

tradomarko of an authontic,

Proparationa boro tho

even sypical,. Agoncy projoct targeted in the

nation..

That I was unable to cosprehend the Gorman languaro,

anin to anothor

untilling quest of the U.S. Attorrer General,

that I had been a recont,

alco, morely aervod.

brandod a Consunias in the public recordo,

than by dosigo.

to arrongthen an alroady plausiblo covor built up by chanco rather

Paradoxically,

cholly untrue.

armor more that the cover nas not

the uPS (unlito the FBI)

not in tho lonot irrusponsiblo to the laws and

polloios of ita governaent.

activition hositlo

"had engaged in certain covert intelligenco

cover = 1 frooly confessod.

which - no an integral part of my

oddly enoush, however, my montore fron Langely had neglocted

to: 1011 no during the briefings that these previoua activities constituted a violation of

Cho criminal atatutes of the GDR,

warranting à maximun penalty of death upon conviction.

By inadvortanco or by plan I found myself in a not altogethor unfrmiliar predicanent.

I had confossod to uy roa? mission,

agguning that it uns gonuino.

withous doubt I could

haro boon apared exocution, probably aven oscapod long-tora imprisonment.

solactod uhat I considered to do a boltor alternativo.

•• ¿ and gainod ay froodos.

for my treatmont by the ufS,

fron bogining

was for more gentle than

oxporiencod benosth the cudgol of tho U.S. Dopartrent of jublico.

With rogard to my marital status and ay children,

appoaro to havo exploited, I havo

novor claimed

tho

forenose area thai dr. Lucey

that'

"Unclo San hidea my (naily"

statod that FBI

and CIA agents deliberatoly isolatod no fros ay nifo and

or

children; nor

havo I claimed that the agency uead she promido of rouniting no wich my fasily as part of

cho incontivo

for accopting the assignient in the GDR.

ly accusationg in shis rospoct

contorod around my children and

they moro lovelod at tha Stato Dopartment no tho result

if a

promigo made to no shortlj ailar my colonso fron tho GDR.

since returning to tho

Unitod Statos laot spring a reliabia sourco has

informod no that my mifo ras grantod a

final docroo of divorce at soco period during my imprisonment in tha

USA

and although I

havo novor

boon

servod with a copy of tho

docroo or othor notification of divorce for

notico of a divorco hoaring) I soo no cause to dispute tho advinoment.

222E0

Lastly, concerning the aspersiona cast on my sanity, at this ariling permit ne to

sy lito boon certified peychotic by any liS. sedical

gentally-incospotont in

a court of las, nocritiscantino cho

in Tosas, over vis yoaro ago.

nodical opinicna as to my montal condicion on sha day of si arrest

.

1i1-giu-19

+6013771770

---

## Page 11

STEN FILED INI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ISTRLCTIONS

1.

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Seed. 2 on back Delach back Hop

and forward to HID

destroy tound cover sheet, unless it recurds

mgnatla19.actatiladon.orcomments.roguip.

any proservation..

FROM:

10 ACTION BRANCH

11 hole no. and title shown ore not proper.

insull proper bole no. below and lorwarst

document in RID AN

PHOMEHTUENO

RID/

HARRISON, L. SCOTT

RID/AN

EXT. 5178

*FL-105

GA-50.

TURE CT-7

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

PILSECTION I ON DACH IN APPROMRIATE

COMMENTS

то.

:ROOM

DATE

ReCEIViO

портяноло.

2.6 JAN 1970

C1/LS 2-6-35

Mir Hantinue

CI/RA

An. Prait

28164%

don,

it, note there hadbeen

from the Brucean on this.

23

29 JAN 1970

said

C1/50

8.

ra

9.

To.

01/51G

12

WH/Cube/spoR

There sade

15:

16.

RID: FI

AOSTNACT

TRACE

REQUEST

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

P to tra

4T58

4678

badl

FILE TITLE

DUMUENPRIMARY CODET

100-300-17

DOCUMINIDATE

DOCUMERTGUNDER

---

