# 104-10330-10008

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10330-10008

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

7. April 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Thomas V. Madigan

IMS/ESG/HCS

Response to ARRB Questions / Requests

REFERENCE:

Memo dtd 6 March 1995 to Ellie Neiman re ARRB Initial Review of Oswald

201 File

1. In response to ARRB the DO has the following answers and /or comments to the

specific questions raised by Mr. Gunn during his review of the OSWALD 201 file.

a. RYBAT- The sensitivity indicator RYBAT is used on correspondence

whenever, in the judgment of the originator and releasing officer, the correspondence

concerns sensitive operational or administrative matters. When used RYBAT will appear

on the slug line along with other pertinent action indicators or cryptonyms to ensure the

protection of sensitive text information.

b. CI/SIG - the "y"' In SIG stands for " investigations " and appears in the

Birch O'Neal testimony and also in CSI No. 70-1 dtd 2 March 1955 l a copy attached

herewith] ; this particular document was released in full in Reel 48 folder 18 of the JFK

microfilm holdings.

c. VR - Indicates that a"' vital records" copy of the cable message was

provided to the cable secretariat archives for its use in the necessary microfilming of the

message at a later date - this automatic dissemination to VR ensures a good microfilm

image copy for records storage.

d. D-200-5-41 - The "D" indicates a processing code used by the records

analyst to place a cross referenced copy of the same document into a particular file other

than the main file. The file number 200-5-41 is the official GPFLOOR file]-all documents

originally assigned to this file have been reclassified to other subject files. The GPFLOOR

file was closed out with the last document filed dated 26 August 1968 [see JFK Reel 48

folder 29 for a listing of documents processed from this file].

e. SLUG LINE - The crypts released elsewhere in the text of a message are

always protected in the slug line along with other indicators as a method to preclude

reconstitution of DO files; for the release of the crypts in the slug line could build

sufficient information to reconstruct sensitive operational information the DO is trying to

protect.

f. DO/WH Organizational Chart - [see attached CSI No 70-1 dtd 27 May

1955 and updates written in from cable chrono information I- the second attachment dtd 5

July 1978 authored by the CIA History Staff answers the original request for this

information.

g. HRG Review Guidelines - On 15 March the DO provided HRG with a green

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

highlighted copy of the guidelines indicating any information which it considers sensitive

and for review only by Mr. Gunn while at HRG I per discussion with Barry this is not a

sanitized version of the guidelines 1.

CC:

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET ATTACHMENT

7 April 1995

RESPONSE TO ARRB QUESTIONS

103

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

2000

In response to ARRB the DO has the following answers and /or comments to the

specific questions raised by Mr. Gunn during his review of the OSWALD 201 file.

a. RYBAT- The sensitivity indicator RYBAT is used on correspondence

whenever, in the judgment of the originator and releasing officer, the correspondence

concerns sensitive operational or administrative matters. When used RYBAT will appear

on the slug line along with other pertinent action indicators or cryptonyms to ensure the

protection of sensitive text information.

b. CI/SIG - the "I"' In SIG stands for " investigations " and appears in the

Birch O'Neal testimony and also in CSI No. 70-1 did 2 March 1955 | a copy attached

herewithl; this particular document was released in full in Reel 48 folder 18 of the JFK

microfilm holdings.

c. VR - Indicates that a"' vital records" copy of the cable message was

provided to the cable secretariat archives for its use in the necessary microfilming of the

message at a later date - this automatic dissemination to VR ensures a good microfilm

image copy for records storage.

d. D-200-5-41 - The "D"' indicates a processing code used by the records

Any no main i The untes 2o0 of the the oil mention,

originally assigned to this file have been reclassified to other subject files. The GPFLOOR

file was closed out with the last document filed dated 26 August 1968 (see JFK Reel 48

folder 29 for a listing of documents processed from this filel.

e. SLUG LINE - The crypts released elsewhere in the text of a message are

always protected in the slug line along with other indicators as a method to preclude

reconstitution of DO files; for the release of the crypts in the slug line could build

sufficient information to reconstruct sensitive operational information the DO is trying to

protect.

f. DO/WH Organizational Chart - (see attached CSI No 70-1 dt 27 May

1955 and updates written in from cable chrono information I- the second attachment dd 5

July 1978 authored by the CIA History Staff answers. the original request for this

information.

ATERAPA

LICE ONLY.

CONEIDENTIAT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

7

106688G, SON 202-402 2027

in BATE 9806Y SEASE

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

TENTATIVE -

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER V

8 March 1855

(9) Recommends policy for Clandestine Services actiuilies relating to the internal security

"of the United Stätes and provides stalf supervision over the collection and provision of

Ludormation appropriate lö Unlted Stales internal securly agencies.

2. SPECIAL INVESTIGATLON UNIT

I Majof Functions

Performs the CI Investigation and analysis of any known or potential security leak la the

Clandestine Services organizatlon, whether in headquarters or in the fleld, from the stand-

point of Its elfect on (1) existing operations, and (2) the cover of personnel. In performing

this function, maintains close working relations with the Security Office, the latter being

primarily concerned In such cases from Agency security rather than an operational secu-

rity standpoint.

3. ADMIMISTRATION STAFF

a Major Functions

(1) Guides and supports Cl elements in the field of organization, personnel, speclallzed

procurement and supply, finance, budget, travel, publications, and general admilialra-

tive facilities.

Note: Stace Cl personnel have the FI career designalion, Career Management (uncilons

are largely performed by FI Stall.

(2) Performs counterpart functlons within the Cl Staff on bebalf of those Agency support

units responsible for procedures relating to personal safety, physical security, and

miscellaneous administrative controls.

(3) Coordinates with the other components of CI Stall to insure correlation of their activilles

with the administrative capabilities of the Agency.

4. LIAISON STAFF

8. Major Functions

(1) Provides staff supervision and guidance in matters relating to lialson with other Volted

States Gorernment agencies on mallers pertaining to counterespionage and operallonally

related matters pertaining lo internal security.

(2) Provides guidance and suggestions, as requested and appropriate, to other components

of CIA in malters pertaining to counterespionage and internal security involving liaison

with other United States Goverrment agencies.

3) Coordinates with the Security Office, or other components of CIA as appropriate, matter

nvolving liaison with other United States Government agencies on questions which bave

counterespionage aspects and other aspects intermingled or not clearly delineated.

S. SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION

8. Major Furctions

The Chief, Special Projects Division, is responsible for the handling of such special projects

as are assigned to him by the Chief, Cl, or directly by the Chief of Operations or the Deputy

Director (Plans).

"RIF"

this documint

*celerad previcesty

Reed 48, f thi

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECREI

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 20-F /

TENTATIV

CSI NO.

ORGANTLATION

2y May 1955

7N00.1970

RELEASE

Паті

Id June 1955

Vich

bey .101

Reat.

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE

CLANDESTINE SERVICE

CHAPTER VII, PART A - ARE

DIVISIONS

99 •

Copy No. 699

17-298-552 beat onergat!

5/27/55

BECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

;:

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

TENTATIVE

CST NO. 70-1

ORGANIZATION

27 May 1955

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

CHAPTER VII, PART A - AREA DIVISIONS •

1. MISSION

2. ORGANIZATION

(see organization charts, Figures 1 - 6.)

3. MAJOR FUNCTIONS

The Chief of an Area Division will:

a. Plan, develo', direct, and support ali Federal espionage operations and activitles within hle

geographic rea.

b. Plan, devel.D, direct, and support all psychological and paramilitary operations and activlo

ties within his geographic area (except as qualilied in paragraph c., below, for certein tO Eis

perations) to include propaganda programs, economic warfare, guerrilla warfare, sabotagi

vaston and escape, PP stay behind and penetration operations, and air-maritima operations

.. In collaboration with the tO Division, coordinate and direct the utilization, within his geo

graphic area, of international organtzations including labor operations, and prouide Dece:

sary support for any lO operations based in his area.:

d. Provide necessary support, in collaboratton with the SR Division, for any SR operattons.or

activities based in his geographic area.

e. Plan, develop, direct, and support counterespionage and counterintelligence operations an

i actlutties within his geographic area.

%. Develop and malntain CE information on loreign intelligence nervices and personalities

counterintelligence interest relating to his geographic area.

NOTE: This standardized fúnctional statement apples to the lollorilag six Area Divlato

FE, NE, BE, WE, and WH, is vien ol the spectalised natare of SR and 1O actruttes, and!

vidual functional statements for these two Divisions are raparately piblished no PART B

and PART C, respectively, of Chapter VII.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VU - PART A

27 May 1955

3a Prepare intelligence and counterintelligence information reports pertaining to his geographic

area lor disfemination to appropriate Government agencies in accordance with establishes

requirements.

-...

with other Agency components.

Assist in the development of pertinent strategic cold war plans as required.

J. Assist in the development of hot war plans pertaining to his geographic area and provide as

directed for the allocation, transfer, or generation of assets to meet accepted hot war obli-

k. Administer all defector matters within his geographic area.

Provide guidance and direction to the operational and administrative activities conducted by

field stations in his geographic area, to include the development and, alter approval, trans-

mission of letters of instruction and related mission directives as approprtate and required.

m. Assure that appropriate cover is provided for all clandestine activities within his geographic

Tarea.

h. Coordinate and supervise the establishment and activation, and direct the operation, of field

stalions and facilities necessary to accomplish in his geographic area the mission assigned

to his diviston

Ensure that adequate operational, personnel, materiel, and ph/sical security is maintained

within his headquarters and overseas areas of responstbility. i

Da Implement personnel, training, and rotatton programs in accordance with Agency regulations.

Ensure that headguarters and lleld elements of his division comply with all operational and

dmintstrative policies, procedures and instructions of the Agency.

regulato and monitor. all travel to and within his geographic area.

As the established channel between headquarters and the field installittous in his geographte

ares, monttor all communtcations to and trom sach field Installattons, and be responsible

for either, release of, or condinallon on, all Clandentine Bervices commanications, as well

as those origtrated by son-DD/P components, uhtch affect activitter tahle geographic area.

• Balyste

and evalua

son of operations condocted within ble

riphie area

conduct operation! lstion with all components of the Agency, other Government agencies

nd foreign goverments as directed in the elicutlon of the above mission and lunctions.

.. Perform such other functions as directed by the DD/P.

FRANK G. WISNER

Deputy Director (Plans)

Released by:

Richard Belms

Chief of Operations

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

EE DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chlef

Plans

Staff

Chief

OPS

EE./1

EE/2

EE/3

EE/4

EE/5

EE/B

Crech-.a

German

PP =

* German.

FI .

Hungary-

Polard

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

STRUCTION MO, 70-1

CHAPTE!

---

## Page 9

13-00000

.

Fl

Staff..

FE/1

Manan

z Korea ::

+*".

PP

Staff

FE/2

China

= formosa

FE DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chief

BRVICE!

801

PM

Stall

AAmin;

Stall

FE/3

Phillppines:

FE/4

: Burme

"Thalland

Viet Nam

- Laos

- Cambodia:

=_.

FE/S

¡ Indonesta

Malay n

Australia

New Zealand

FE/8

Salpaoy

Hone labs

Oktaswa

Alr Actwittes

Figure ?

28 8axy 1955

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VU - PART A

---

## Page 10

13700000

FI

Stall

GSN 5:99

NEA DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chlef

PP

Stalt

NEA/1

NEA/2

NEA/4

Africa

(except?"

Есурії

: Lebanon

Syria

! Jordan

-Baudl Arabla

iran

Figure 3

PM

Staff

NEA/S

india •

Pakistan

( Aighanistar

: Nepal

- Ceylon .

Admin.

Staff

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

27 Ma$ 1955

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VII - PART A

---

## Page 11

S11l1

St :2

pp

St.ut

SE DIVISION

Chiet

Deputy Chiet

5E/3

SE/4

Figure 4

PM

Statt

SE/3

LIDE SERVICES

SE/6

71 My 104

0 10

CHAPTER VI - PART A

13-00000

---

## Page 12

WE DIVISION

Chief

Depuly Chi+:

F1

Stall

pp

Stalt

WE/1

WE/2

WE/3

WE/4

Sweren

Norway

Desmark

lealand

Belglum

Italy

Heure s

WEA

Brain

Porteral

Admin.

Staft

CLANDESTINE BERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VES PART

13-00000

---

## Page 13

13-00000

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

WH DIVISION

Chier

Deputy Chies

PP

Stall

WHAL

W1/2

Be Tie la

Celambla

Bast Codet

Argentins

Arant

Parapury

Uruguay

Figure

6b-ENSD

10

SECRET

TRIATIVE

Csi NO, 70-1

CHADIER VI PARTA

27 May 1955

Admin.

Stait

WH/3

Car ibben

Antilles Area

Casta Fier

El Salvador

Gustemnis

Honduras

Mexico

Nicaragua

L'anima

*fron cheens (Die)

i9ç3

CHICA

Larti 7

---

## Page 14

13-00000

C-0-N-}-i-D-B-w-T-Ian-1

Thi6 iotfer Expires 28 December 1950

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

NOTICE NO. 5-99

CSN NO. 5-99

CENDRAI

28 November 1960

Beleased: 30 Nov. 1960,i

RESCISSION NOTICE

The fullowing publications are berebj rescinded:

Tentative CSI No. 1-1 (formerly CSI No. 70-1), Chapter II,

Part. A, ORGANIZATION AND FUICTIONS, OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY

DIRBCTOR (PIANS), dated 11 March 1955.

ND FUNCTIONS, 1

dated 22 July 1957.

Figures 1 through 6 of Tentative QSI To. 1-1 (fornerl)

SI No. 70-1), Chapter VII, Part A, ORGAHIZATION ANI

FUNCTIORS, AREA DIVISIONS, dated 27 May 1955.

CSI 25-2, TRATKING OY CLAKDESTINE SERVICES PEASONI.,

asted 21 January 1953.

CSI NO, 70-3, AREA DIVISION ISS IIAISON OFFICERS, det »d

24 Pebruary 1955.

RICHARD M. BISSBLL, JR.

Deputy Diroctar

(PlARs)

C-D-R--I-D

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SEGRET

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

48 PH °78

5 July 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI. Norbert Shephanek, PCS / LOC

FROM

: Chief, CIA History Staff

SUBJECT

: Organization Chart for the Deputy Directorate

for Plans (DDP), 1963

REFERENCE

: Telecon from N. Shephanek to J. Pfeiffer,

30 June 1978, same subject.

1. In response to your telephone call of 30 June 1978,

History Staff was unable to locate any single chart which

showed the organization of the Deputy Directorate for Plans

as of 1963. We did find a complete set of charts for the

individual

Staff Elements, the Functional Divisions, and the

Geographic Area Divisions of the DDP as of 25 February 1963.

2. Based on the organization charts for these individual

components (including the Office of the DDP), History Staff

has prepared a chart which is believed to be an accurate

reflection of the DDP organization as of 25 February 1963.

3. If you require further details concerning the organ-

ization of the individual components as of the date noted

above, please let me know.

fack B. Pfriffer

DI. Jack B. Pfeiffer

Chief, CIA History Staff

203 Key Building, x2621

Attachment:

Organization

chart

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED when removed

from SECRET attachment.

1444

ER AFRET EL aN 018645

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SECRET

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS*

DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

ASSI. DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

STAFF ELEMENTS

• Counter

Intelligence

Special

Affairs

Covert

Action

Foreign

Intelligence

FUNCTIONAL DIVISIONS

Operational Services

Records Integration**

Technical Services

Special Operations

AREA DIVISIONS

Western Europe

Soviet Russia

Western Hemisphere

Near East

Far East

Eastern Europe

Africa

* *

As of 25 Feb 1963

As of 28 Dec 1963

SECRET

---

