# 104-10303-10006

## Page 1

AnnAn

1104-10303-10006

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1 576-1438

SEGRET

17 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM

SUBJECT

: John H. Waller

Inspector General

: Jack Anderson Reference to 28 November

1963 CIA Cable

1.

The Operations Group of CI Staff has provided a copy

of the cable about which you inquired. A copy is attached at

Tab A. It is a dissemination of a report by a British journalist

stating that a man named Ruby was in Cuba in 1959, where he

visited an American gangster-gambler named "Santos, " who

was living luxuriously in jail.

This dissemination was based

on a 27 November 1963 cable from London, a copy of which is.

attached at Tab B. A follow-up cable from London on

29 November commented on the source of the storv, raising

a question as to his reliability • A copy is at Tab C. A more

detailed statement about the man is contained in a report

passed to the FBI on 12 December 1963, a copy of which is

at Tab D.

2. On 7 January 1964 the FBI provided CIA with a report

that Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in 1959; a copy is at Tab E.

On 30 January CIA provided additional information to the

Bureau on this subject; a copy is at Tab F.

3. The following points of coincidence are probably of

interest to Senator Baker: Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in

1959, as stated in the report that gave rise to the present

query; the name "Santos" is also the given name of Trafficante,

although it is not clear that these are the same persons. While

there are reservations about the reliability of the source of

the report which gave rise to the present question, we are not

in a position at this time to evaluate it definitively. It is noted

that the description of "Santos" as living in luxury in a Cuban

prison is similar to a version also reported in a 16 May 1974

story in the Outlook Section of the Washington Post.

Zaar 1 1055636

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

4. As you may know, an Agency task force has been

conducting an in-depth study of all information relating to

issues surrounding the Agency's support for the Warren

Commission investigation. This study has been underway

since early July and, because of the detailed nature of the

review, may require as much as another two months if it

is to be completed with the thoroughness that we believe

necessary.

5. OLC on 2 August called Liebengood of Senator Baker's

staff in response to a query concerning Jack Ruby's alleged

trip to Cuba. Unfortunately, on the basis of inadequately

researched information given OLC, that staff admitted to

knowing only about an allegation of a 1963 trip to Cuba by

Ruby put out as propaganda by an anti-Castro Cuban group.

The information did not include information in CIA's possession

on the 1959 trip by Ruby contained in the 1963 (Tab A) cable.

Madigan finally received from OLC a copy of the 1963 cable

on September 15, when the matter was straightened out and

the files properly researched.

6. As a relevant note on the question on whether or not

the Agency was purposely withholding the 1963 cable on Ruby's

1959 visit, we have been informed by the FOIA staff that at

least the following persons have been provided copies of the

cable:

Mark Lane

Paul Hoch

Bernard Fensterwald

David Belin

Walker & Buchanan

Harold Weisberg

George Lardner

David Martin

Vorman Kempste:

Christie Bashan

Pamela Butler

Mel Elfin

Dan Schwartz

Robert L. Terpstra

Robert Anson

Carrollton Press

Washington Post

Associated Press

L.A. Times

NBC

Readers Digest

Newsweek

National Inquirer

National Inquirer

New Times Magazine

-2 -

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

7. As discussed with you, I think it would be useful for

my staff, specifically Breckinridge, to get Madigan out here,

describe to him our task force approach to the problem and

otherwise convince him that we are cooperating to the fullest

on this problem. We will coordinate this with OLC.

Attachments:

Tabs A thru F

- 3

---

## Page 4

13.

-00000

(

---

## Page 5

13-00000

• 3

"5573

• NO

EX

IS HOVEBER-ISOBEILE IN CS FILE NO.

"BIRE HOUSE

ATIN: MR: NICGECRCE EUDY

DEPARTIENT OF STATE

ATTN: IR. U. ALFXIS JOHNSON

PEDORAL, BUREAU OF ILIVESTIGATION

F3s630580x

CENTRAL IFTELLIGBNCE AGENCY

Gior:

Chat 2

63 302%

59: D61, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI 2, VR

5

28 no: 63

i6

50 2

DEFEATED GET

POUTINE-

• JIMEDIATE

INFO

CITE DIR

85651

ON 26 MOVENEER 1963 A BRITISH JOURNALIST NAMERI

SOIN WILSON, AND ALSO KONI

AS JOHIT WILSON-HUDSON

GAVE INFORMATION TO THE ALERICAN EMBASSY. IN LONDON

NICE DOCATED THAT AN "AMERICA GANGSTER SXFE HANU VISITED CURA

AROUND 2959. WEISON TRISE HAS WORKENG IY CUZA AE ME TIME AND VAS JAID D

CASTRO BEFORE HE WAS DEPORTED.

IN PRISON IN CUBA, FILSON SAYS HE SEX AN AMERICAN CANGSTER BLR

SANTOS WIIO COULD NOT RETURN TO THE U.S.A. BECAUSE TIRE HERE SEVERAL

INDICTISTTS OUTSTANDING AGAINST JUM. INSTEAD HE PREFERRED TO LIVE IN RELATIVE

IUXURY IIN A CUBAN PRISON. MIDLE SANTOS WAS IN PRISON WILSON SAYS, SAIIOS

HAS VISITED FREQUENTLY BY AN APRICAN GANGSTER TYPE NAHED RUSS. IS STORY IS

BEING FOLICED UP, ISSAY lE IND DiCE ESPIND ABOUT CASTRO ACTIVES

SEFORE TIE EASILAND COMMITTRE OF THE U.S. SENATE, SOMETINE IN 1959 OR 1960.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON. 24 MAY 1978

INFDST OL BY 0/2208

END. OF MESSAGE

Document Number.

206-93

• for FOlA Review on

APR 1975

1: 200-5-41

26°

Робіті.

by authority of

RICHARD HEIRIS

DDP

RELIASING OFFICER

BS E0?Y

201289248

CCORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP I

Excluded trom automalic

SECRET

connerating ans

declassification

REPRODUCTION

BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Сору No

Ime

---

## Page 6

13-00000

---

## Page 7

13-00000.

& SEGRET

: DIRECTOR

2

3

ROUTING

41

161

Gature

RECORDS, OFFICER STAUF

i Balloting astion is

Esa: DE SENSITIZE

¡Signed:

SECPET 27173IZ

DIR: INFOGEL SOME LOTSA07

R.0. El. - U.

CI/RA

2N0 S3 169 1 00

14-

Note:

1ê destru

cite

REMAN

reasons and cooritnate

I appropriate.

REF DIR 85133%

i. tO TRACES

OSHADEN PAGUANY SPECIAL FRANCHORTHE

CE IN LION RECORDS OSEICE-

JOURCE

INFORMATION

HOWEVER, CRAPPIE INDEX SHOUS THAT OSUALS

APRIVED IN SOUTHAMPION 9 OCT 59 CLAIMING IN HIS LAND INSE CARD HE

HAD NO FIXED ADDRESS BUT FLANNED REMAIN U. K. ONE. WEEK FOR VACATION

BEFCRE GOING ON TO " SOME SCHOCL IN SUISSE".. YOWEVER, HE LEFT LOND

INdICATION

NEXT DAY 10 OCT BY AIR FOR HELSINKI.. THERE NO RECORD ON RETURN

FROM USSR TO U. S.

HE PASSED THROUGH U. K. HOWEVER MOVING

TELL IN IRANSI ONE TE HOT NECESSARIOEILL QUILAND INE FARD AND.

THEREFOS-IRAFFEE DEX HOULD LOT HAVE RECOR

2.

26 NOV A SRIT SUBJ CLAIMING BE FREE LANCE JOURNALIST

RESIDING CHILE ROUGHLY LAST TWENTY YEARS NAMED JOHN WILSON AKA

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

Documont Number

WIL SON-HUDSCY VISITED EMB TO TELL FOLLOWING

SAID HE WAS IN CUBA

DURING 57-59 WORKING IN SOME CAPACITY FOR BATISTA AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY

DEPORTED BY CASTRO AFTER IMPRISONMENT FOR A TIME. HOWEVER, QUiet

GAINS 'E ANEN A CAME ING CANGSTER TYPE NAIE SANTOS UNA WAS IN

SAME PRISON WITH HIN AFTER CASTRO CAME TO POVER.

SANTOS WAS. 27 NGu63

170595=41

FS COPT

SECRET

CROUr I

REPRONUCTION RY OTHER THAN THE ISSING MEEIGE IS EDALRITER

Conse An

z/mc

---

## Page 8

13-00000

IbI sterilo copy of this dostmani.

CLASSIFIED, MESSAGE*

IN 691

_ PAGE 2

A'ERICAN BUT COULD NOT RETURN U. SO DUE SEVERAL FEDERAL. INDICI-

NENTS QUE STAND INE AGAINSI HIM. SANIOS OPTED THEREFORE REMAIN IN

PRISON FOR PERIOD OF IINE PAYING CASTRO IN DOLLARS FOR HIS RATHER

LUXURIOUS AND DEFINITELY NOA FRISON LIXE ACCONFODATIONS. DURING

THIS PITE HE VAS, ACCEDING TO VILSON-HUDSON, VISITED FREQUENTLY

BY ANOTHER AMERICAN CANESTER TYPE NAMED

PRUBY. WIL SON- HUESON

CLAI'S HE COULD IDENTIFY RUBY FROM CLEAR PICTURE. ALSO CLAIMS

TO HAVE TESTIFIED BEFORE THE EASTLAND SENATE COMMITTEE DURING

ITS HEAPINES IN 59 OR 69 ON CASTRO ACTIVITIES. STATION CISCING

COMMENT S.

:3.

CORNHY PUR SUING MUCH SAME LINES AS STATION ON THEIR HOS

REQUESTS. WE CHECKING TOGETHER. PREVENT DUPLICATION BUSSARION

*REM IS INDURATE BOSHATTON AND DENNY. HAUSSIDESM SH

FOLLOW UP ANKLEARS ON PRIT SURVECT SARDAR RELATINEER ARGUE AS

APPROFLIAFENANTSPHEY

HAVENTERELE

ES COMMENT: #RUSSEMINATIONAPPLICABLE-TO*RYBAT-GPFLOOR"eABLES.

Frequented trace frce a stationsands

S 0T Lea Feng state

1 :

5/2mc

---

## Page 9

13-00000

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

• 8 CRESCA

.2

3

ROUTING

15

16

IS COPTI

SENION, GARY, (COPY ISSUED TO SHOT TODAY 9545-29-104-655

sure: 7057952916337

DIR CITE SONIMEIILY

29H0 53 17 02 1 1

HEF LENS ON (T0 69100)

ALTHO SIMASON TRACING JOHN WILSOH AXA HILSON HUDSON AH..

JAGUAR, BELIEVE UN FIRST RETURNS FROM ODENHY CHECK HE LIXELY

FE PSYCHOPATHA:

WE

SIAFICH GATHERS HE GAVE THIS IHPRESSION WHEN

TESIIFYINA BEFORE EASTLAND COMITTEE IN 59. UL ARE THEREFORE

NSAJJASHINS FUATHEN

THATE

Document Number

233-94

for FOlA Review on APR 1970

•/3 COHENTS: DISSEMINAILONGARPELABLE TO RIGHT*GPENGER DIVOUR GABNESES

**Wilson claimed he knew "Ruby" while in Cuba 1957-59, and coula identity

Ruby from a clear picture.

RESENSTTIZE

Hastie

Note:

Indestructior cite

reasons and coordiate

LI appropriate..

SECRET"

READOCION. BY CHEN THAN THE ISSUE DICE IS PROMINENT

Copy Ne

Z/mc

---

## Page 11

13-00000

---

## Page 12

13-00000

?.:

Directos

Federal Bureau of Investigation

sitencion: Ha. S. J. Papich

:

Deputy Director, Plaas

SURGECT

WILSON, Carlos Join

(aka

DOB:

29 DecoRDer 1916

20B: Liverpool, England

Reference:

OUT 85657, 28 November 1963

A usually reliabla source, whose information was

evaluated as "possibly trus", reported on 8 August 1951 the

followiag infomation concerning one Carl Join WILSON sudson.

WILSON, a Spanish cliven of British descent

residing 12 Chile, was a contact of one Bert SUCHAROY,.

a suspectaà soviot agent, in santiago, chile..

It had been ascertained that HIIsoN had

arrivad in Chile on 23 Januazy 1939 fIOn Blenos Mies,

bearing spanisà passport No.

7, issued in Buenos Aires

On 1 ManUry iIU9 and viSaAd (tOUriSt Dy the Chileas

Consul in that city on 25 January 1939. Le held

Chilean carnet 1.824.595 (Santiago) and resided at

Calle Arturo Mediaz 4807, Santiago.

Further background data revealed that. WilSoN

was born in Liverpool,

England, on 29 December 1916.

In July 1936 be had leit his studies at Ozlord Univer

sity in England to enlist as a volunteer in the Spanisa

Loyalist forces, whereupon ha acquired his Spanisa

citizenshig.

do

Subsequent to his arrival In Chile, WILSON 1n

his capacity as & Jarnalist had opened a one- nan crusade

against the Eritish Government, in violation of restric

tions placed on such activitles by foreigners in Chile.

ne had been, in addition, masquerzaing under various

nonexistent

TitleN 25 1 JESUlt O ThiCK the CnilERI

Government on 16 Jay 1939, at the request of the british

385-736

Document Humber

as empy files in

MAY 1976.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW O

-2-82.

for FOlA Review, o1

29 MAY 19Л6

CONDUCTED O!.

HE SAPDET OL 5YS/2.208

CB00S1

Copy Fil

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Fubassy, issued a decree (No. 3314) ordering his

expuiston fron Chile.

Later,

however, the decree was

resciaded as a result of WILSON's pleas, his state of

health and his pronise to discontime his nisrapresenta.

tion and other illegal activities.

In spite of his promises, MILsoN bad continued

those activities, nunbering among others an anti-

Fascist campaign which he had associated with a "Uri-.

VETSAI

Peace borerent" to be brought about by the

clinination of all leading vorld porers.

VILION alSO

had frequently posed as a Britisk RAi captain and had

voID the corresponding unijora.

the strange nannerisms exhibited by MILSON

were attributed to a mental 1llness, and ollowing

MwoN's second outturst, the britisa Ambassador pre

sented another request for his expulsion.

Again,

Lowever, following various explanctions by wilson to

the British Eubassy and on the rereral of his pionise

to reirain tron further activities of a similar sature,

the casa was cropped.

2.

On & October 1952, a usually relladle source, thosa

information was evaluated as "possibly true," subaitted the

follortag report concerning one Carlos John WILSON, who 19

identifiable with tha Carl John WILSON Fudson in paragraph

1 above.

WIiSON stated that he had arrived in Santiago

in 1947 and had vorsed on a special nission for the

Iritish Goverment in Gernany, Egypt,

and Turkey at

the close or lorld Har II. He stated thai he hid

fought with tha Spanish Republican forces against Franco.

do was violently anti-united States and constantly

consenned United states policy.

WILSON waS of the

opinion that England and france would eventually join

with the Ussa to form a pact aimed at the complete

destruction of the United States. Ha clained to be aa

authority on the Ballens, and tas a strong supporter

of TIto.

Tito; WILSON stated, would eventually Itse up

the entire Balkan area with Ingland and France to assist

Russia in crushing the United States.

b.

WILSON was extronely interested in the

---

## Page 14

13-00000

3

Xugoslar colony in Santiago. He attended i largo cele

Iration given by the Serbian Orthodox Sociaty at the

Club Ruso in Santiago.

On this occasion he bad becono

intoxicated ant usde bitter recarls against the .s.

rhile be vas intonicated ba made contidential rempeks

Indicating

• that he was a nenber of an intelligence

SELViCE.

Co

WILSON had aa office on Calle Agustiars 1111,

which bore the following designation: "CINCSS, Connercini

Intomation." WILSON's business consister of trade in

copper, lead, and sulpour.

Re stated that he sas

Involved in a secret "deal" in Antoiagesta, Calle,

which he planed to ship 15,000 tons oi sulphur to

WILSON was 1n contact with a nan identified

as beriberto Springrallor EINIcus, also described as

bitterly ani1-U.S.

EINICIK vas believed to bavo.

studied in tha U.S. between 1922 and 1930. He had

Jntor tacons a colonel ly the Nicaraguis Army but bac

been expelled fron the country. It was reported that hs

spent sono tige in Bolivia and vas closely involpad

with Wilson in his so called comercial dealings.

e.

HISON was described as being very intelligent,

astute, and well inforned on current events.

Fe Ras

extrenely sociable, friendly, a very beavy drinker, und

a free spender. lis physical descilption was as follows:

Apparent age: 38 years old (born circa 1914)

Bulla:

Madizn......

colcI of hair: Exorn

colos of eyes: Blue green

face:

Iong, larga nose; snall, slightly Dio

truding ears; ruddy complexion; small

mustache; vears glasses

docunentation:

UN Press Pass io. 287, issued

in Santiago. Pass Iron the

International Police rection

of the Chilean Investigation

sexvice authorizing nim to enter

Los CerTillos airport in Bantiago

at say time.

SOURCE COMENT:

source was of the opinion that WILsoN was

very probably an intelligence agent, since there was no

apparent reason for his great interest in the lugoslay colony

S02ET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

in Santlago and since his largo incone ivas of questionable

Jr1g1.

1i uinuaily tellaale source reported 13 cune 1259

that Carl John MILSOY, British jourralist, sent e cable to

the Eritisa Farllanent and to tae Eritisà

Trada Union Fez

eration saying that ha had conirned that the l.s. litlitary

ditaches in the Caribbean were glving military advice to

dictators.

lle protested 1n the nane of lunanity, saying

thie patiots sers jighting for thelr sacied rigbts to ba iree

citizers and that aneriens volunteers vere helping the dic

tators with tha approral of Fasalagior.

Eource cormentad that

VILSON was plaaniag on acconpanying Hario CALERO, Micaraguan

revolutionary tho vas readying an expedizion agalist

Mcazagua irom Cuba.

Anotiser report dated 26 June 1959 iron 2 usually

reliable spurce stated that Paul HUGBES, an Anerican soldier

of fortune, clained to have at his disposal three pircraft,

including one bomber, and planzed to launcà an attaci on

Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, during the neckond of 23-28 Jus8

1959.

Eughes said that Carl WILSCN, 2 Bxitish joursalist,

and about 55 voluntaers rould join hin in the sttaci. Sourco

comnented that HUGIES also vaguely spoxe of possibly bonbing

Kanagus for the psychological eiiect.

HILSON said that

Castio had no kncrledge of HUGiks' plans.

5.

Unlted-Press International carried the story daio

I1ned 1 culy 1359 iron lavana, Caba, saying that volico had

ZaideÚ a DIiTAtO 2010 i1 SULuICRA BilinOrE tue diy bejOre

and saired a lazge gusntity oi ains and arested thres.

Anericans and a Briton. tho-Ancricang vere-Ideztified as

Paul uucuss, an officer in Castro's rebel amy; Etren I.

PICIARDO, Of Mian1, Florida; and Joseph BAZUOR, oI Los

Angales, California. Tse Sxiton vas listed as Carl John

HILSON.

G.

The U.S. Axuy Attache 1n Eayanz, Caba, reported

30 culy 1959 that he had received the following nots frow

Caxl JOba HILSON:

"galvador ALlihbe, (Cormaist-sponsored presidential

candidato in 1953 and Socialist Pariy menber) brougit a

Ietter of delinito Instrictions to Raul Castro (iron

Chile.)

This letter containg instiuctiong irom the

Frenlin 1n Hoscon and contains the signature of Pablo

Neruda of Chile. It deals with deiinite instructions

os anti-Aaerican agitation to connence nest noath in

Chile, Pera, Eolivta, Cuba, Costa Plea, etc. Raul

---

## Page 16

13-00000

CastIo 1S

of Chile, on under instructions di Salvador Altaus

Source, Carl Jon WilSON, was described as a Fritisa subject

and tree lance newspapermad, who was arrested with Paul

hiGHes and who bad been in jail ever since.

FILION reportealy

wanted to talk to soreone. U.S. Army Attache shored the note

to the British Charge who agreed to send the Consul to talk

to WILsON and advise U.s. Army Attache 11 FILSON had anything

to sad to the contents of the note. nothing further sas

receized.

7.

Assortated Press datelined & July 1959, Havana,

carried story about WILSO% who said he had bagar a seven

cay bunges strise to protest his arrest and sai to be led

intragenously at Chba's jational Police Hospital. Although

polico dented WILSON was on a hunger strika, a hospital

intern sald that he sas suifering fron physical exsaustion

brought on by his refusal to eat, According to a l6 jaly

1959 lavasa press report,

WILSON'S wile, a Chilean nased

Ellana Broatnan, sald WIliON had received a law degree fros

PrEord University and had fought in the International Erigade

curing the Spantsh Civil War.

: On 18 August 1959 WILSON walked into I.S. Consulate

alngstos, Jamaics, and said he vas & journalist wio had just

been released after 54 days detention in Habana prison,

Ee

voluntered intornation about Cuba sad Conunist activity L4

Latia serica.

on 21 August 1959 the U.S. Consulate in

Kingston issued WIISON a single entry noninuigrant visa.

He was carrying tritish passport 147356 Issued in lavazz

34 August in the name of John VILSON. He was sitempting to

get aix passage to liami in order to sell his story to the

Miami Herald and then to sotain a ney visa fron chilean

consulate to return bone (Uk or Chile not specified

but

apparently he returned to Ui.)

8.

I.S, State Departnent cable fros Asuncion, Paraguay,

reported 16 Deceaber 1959 that John FILSON, cOrrespondent

{ox North American News Service, iad inforned the tazaguayan

Ambasaador in London on 14 december that within tro days a

cargo or 300 machine guas and 200 rifles vere to ba shipped

to Buenos Alres, Argentina, at the direction oi Castro.

WILSEN reportedly shored docwents which proved his statement

---

## Page 17

13-00000

and requested remittance for passage to asuncion to inior

fully on the shipment without pay.

CSCI 3/779,048

26

CYH/3/Whitten:iz

Distribution:

O8l - addressee

1 - RI

1 - CILIA

CI/R&A

• CI/ICG

WE/Walsh

• VH/3/s1

CVS/3

DATE:

9

Dacember 1963

PROJECT: None

Coord: WE Division Wals

x6660

Inc

---

## Page 18



---

## Page 19

13-00000

UNITI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Keply, Please Rejer 80

File No.

TASHINCION 25, D.C.

BY LIAISON

Date:

From:

Subject:.

January 7, 1964

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

JACK I. RUBY

LET HARVEX OSHALD - VICTIM

CIVIL RIGHTS

lix. Carlos Villa, 1150 Coral Way, alami, Florida,

furnished to

the t'By on December 21, 1953, a letter which

had been tomarded to a iriend of his named dosa antonio

JUaD.

hit. Juan had received the letter from his son living

in Cuba.

In the letter received by ir. Juan from his son

the statement was made,

"It is known here that Hubinstein

was here a little leas than a year ago visiting a lt. fransI,

owner of a suop dealing in tourist articles, located on

Prado Street between Animas and Irocadero, opposite the

Sevilla Biltnore."

The reference to Rubinstein appears to

refer to Jack I. Ruby who is presently in custody, Dallas,

Texas, on charges of shooting Lee Harvey Oswald.

For your information this Bureau's investigation

concerning Jac's I. Ruby has developed no infornation that

Ruby bas ever been in Cuba except on one occasion in 1959

when he visited there briefly on a vacation trip.

Ruby

himself readily admits to this trip but has denied any otber

trips to Cuba or contacts with persons there.

It is requested that, through available sources of

your agency, you develop any information possible relating

¿o the above-quoted statement in an effort to resolve the

allegation that Jack I. Ruby has possibly visited Cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

201-742862

---

## Page 20

13-00000

'..

30 JAN 1964

?::;

waits:

Moral dureau of inviselato

creations so so do inalch

JACK TO MOT

Los larmy UnAid - rictia

civil lighta

¡oteranco is nade to your manorantan of l Jamary 196s,

subject as above, concerniny a repori of a visit to cuba ia early

1953 rade by Jack ie milk, aasassla di lea damoy soul. inis

Ajancy has recalri a sivilar report iron a soura to the slicct

thet aVar nas in baruca in lato ISÓ? or in early I953a according

to Bla uncontina report EULl was "a Priord and sustner Df a

(Cuban) citlien naned PRAsKIN, omar and manager of a sumity shop

Ios tourists locases (in Mayans) batmen hairas and trocadero,

Paseo dal Frado, In iront of te lobal serilla," fur sourco stated

that the falloving individual could vestig the abore internationi

Eato Bernardo PERCIA Acosta

IPOde 32 Varca 1927, Gral, Carrilo, Las Villas, Subs

Ferber of inigado 2556

¿x latest intomation concering die dercabosis of ticina acasta

indicatia his address as of Septesibar 1753 1233

323. St 2nd Struet,

Miani, Florida

We suggest that your fursau may prefer to intuien PuRElli

Acosta.

jur files contain so incormiion on Ingore icortifablo vita

washdi. wa would aparacinto receiring the resulta of your incerrles

•E Piulia ¿costa, Tour Euresu vill be advised la she event us recuive

further inforation relating to this satter.

POL IE DEPUTY PROTUA FOR PiSS

•Jases dagleton

GSGI-3/773,181):

---

## Page 21

13-00000

CAE-3/779,311

30 Jaguary 19:54

¡iscriterior:

Crico

?: 1 - sacresses

]

. • C/C1

26

• :1/3/10.

mitten

S: C1/dro sagren

CI/REA/Mir. Rocca

- CT/LIA (dunIT)

(durmy)

- CI/SIC

(Sensitive Nenos

201-742 862)

2

Imc

---

## Page 22



---

## Page 23

13-00000

25.

till

le

*:l5

idl

•l:

1.

ite

ed

ily

ily

lly

!v.

ific

110

"Al'

176

!?.

•ol

115

he

IN'S

61,

:1e

he

эл.

and thair workers dosse carn carer de do deans dence depend

• mem, testified that me more than Do to Go Ol Dallas alrose 1.200

licemen were acquainted with Rube.

However, the reports of

present and past members of thie Dallas Police Department as well as

Ruby's employees and acquaintances indicate that Kaly's police

friendships were far more widespread than those of the dvers

cilizon. is:

There is no credible cridence that Rule sonedt sperint ferors from

police odicers or attempted to bribe clean. s

•hongh there is concil-

erable condence that Rub care policemen roled tales, declined

to exiled and cover charge from thems and gase them the colle

and sold drinks. on this hospitality was not unsnal ford Dillas night-

club operators Rubes personal attachment do police allieses

is demonstrated by reports that he attended the tuneral of at last

one policeman killed in action and stage a benetit performance forthe

widow of another."ss

Ruby regarded sereral olicers as personal

friends, and others had worked for him?

Finally, at least one police-

man regularly dated. and erentually married, one of the Carousel's

strippers. 39

Underworld Ties

From the time that Ruby arrived in Dallas in 1917, l was friendly

with numerous underworkd figures.

One of his earliest Dallas ar-

quaintances was lanl Roland Jones, Who was convicted of attempting

to bribe the sheriff of Dallas and engaging in the sale of nareeties

Toe Bonds, one of Ruby's partners in the Vegas Club, had a criminal

Ruby, who enjoyed card playing as and horse reing in was friendly

with soreral professional gamblers.

In 1959, he risited Cuba at the in-

vitation and expense of Lewis MoTillie, a professional gambler.*s

Alice Nichols reported that Rubr's refusal to give up smiling was

one reason why she never seriously considered marrying him. When

Sidney Seidband, a Dallas gambler, was arrested in Oldthoma City, his

list of gambling acquaintances included dack Ruby.

friends of Ruby have been identified as gamblers." Finally, two per

sons of questionable reliability have reported that Raly s consent was

necesstry before grumbling or nareoties operations could he launched

in Dallas. 20

Based on its eraluation of the record, however, the Commission

belicres that the evidence does not establish a signilient link boween

Ruby and organized crime.

Both State aud Federal oficials lave

indicated that Ruby was not alliliated with organised criminal artir-

ity. tun

And numerous persons have reported that linky was not con-

nected with such activity.toa

Travels

Despite reports that Ruby visited Havand, Las Vegas Dew York,

Chicago, Honolulu, and Mexican border towns, most of his time sule

801

---

## Page 24

13-Q0000

qucht to 1917 was spent in Dallas.

Some of his tracels, including his

efforts in behalf of "Little Daddy" Nelson and his risit to Ner Orleans

in June 1063 have been discussel. 12

Ruby stated that he went to Chi-

cago in 1952, in 1959 when his father died, and in Angust 1063 when he

met members of his family at O'Tare International Airport while en

route from New York to Dallis.10a

His unist trip to New York

motivated by his didiculties with the American Guild of Variety

Artists and his desire to obtain talent, has been completely established

by hotel records Early in 1963 Ruby also treeled to Wichita,

Kans, lecause of his interest in stripper Gail Raren to and on May 25,

1063, he apparently registered in an Oklahoma motel. 108

Although Ruby denies being in Tas Veers after 1937 a7 there are

unsupported rumors that he was in that city in late 1962,ns and the

carly part of November 1963."9 Reports that he was in Tas Yegs.

during the weekend prior to the assassination no appear similarly

unfounderl.*

There is some uncertainty dout luby's trip to Havana, Cuba, in

1959.

The evidence indicates that he accepted an invitation from

gambler Lewis .T. MoWillie, who subsequently became a riolent anti-

Castroite, to risit Marina at MoWillies expenses Ruby apparently

met. NeWillie in about 1050, when MoWillic operated a Dallas night-

club.da MoWillie, whom linhy srid he ilolized!* supervised gamb.

ling activities at Marana's Tropicana Hotel in 1939 and later was cm-

ployed in a managerial capacity in a las Vegas mumbling establish-

ment.115 Ruby testified that he went to Masana for S days in Angust

1050 and left because he was not interested in its gambling activities. to

MelTillie corroborated this story except that he stated only that Ruby

visited ITarana "sometime in 1929,"7 Thic Chicagoans reported

seeing Ruhy in Marant during the Labor Day weekend in 1050.118

Meyer Panit%, an acquaintanes of MoTillie, ropored that when he

mct Ruby in Miami during the "summer of 1920" linby stated that he

was returning from a pleasure trip to Cuba The theory that the

trip to Tavana had conspiratorial implications is discussed in chapter

VI. There is no reliable eridence that Ruly went to Marana subse-

quent to September 1055,130

Athough Ruby denied ever being in Trail e there is some eri-

dence that during the summer of 1061 he was in Honolulu socking

dancing falent. 1a

While it as unholy that Ruby would Forget a trip

to Monollu in 1961, there is no other indication that such a trip, if

it occurred, had any sinister motives.

CHARACTER AND INTERESTS

Family Relationships

As mentioned preciously? tra Grant was the oly member of the

family living in Dallas when Tady returned to that city in late 1947.

In 1048, she returned do the west coast, visiting Dallas sporadically

802

---

## Page 25

13-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL

Journal - Office of Logislative Counsel

Monday - 20 December 1976

13 4,3

SSCI I16

Page 1

77-0277/4

Briefing

15. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Mike Epstein, Senator William

Hathaway's (D., Maine) designee on the Senate Select. Committee On Intelligence,

called to say that Senator Hathaway wanted to make it clear that the concerns

Epstein had relayed regarding the interviewing of Sovict emigrees were not

necessarily his own.. Epstein asked that Agency records reflect that this

was Epstein's own concern.

Epstein also said Senator Hathaway wanted lo tour all Agency

buildings in the Metropolitan Washington area so that he would have a better

understanding of the Agency's size, deployment, and activities. I told Epstein

this would be quite an extensive plan and I would bring him a list of all

Agency locations and what offices were located there and he could choose from

the list which buildings he wanted to visit.

16. (Confidential - DFM) TRAVEL Walt Ricks, Senator Robert

Morgan's (D., N. Car.) designee on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,

called to ask that we brief Senator Morgan in carty afternoon today regarding *

his trip to Panama and Mexico City. I accompanied Phil Fendig7 SA/DO/O,

George Lauder, C/LA, Tim Desmond, Panama Branch/DDO, and Tom Keenan,

Mexico City Branch/DDO, to a briefing on theLwo Stations and their activitiesy 24

24 Operating Directives for both Stations were shown to the Senator and Ricks.

Both Senator Morgan and Ricks have contacted State Department and DOD for

their assistance and Senator Morgan has asked Col. Dick Fisher, Department-

of the Army, to accompany him. He said he would still welcome an Agency

escort if we preferred. The main focus of his Panama visit now appears io be

the Canal treaty issue, although he does plan to spend one day withStation 29

personnel in Panama and two days with Station/personnel in Mexico City.

Select Commite on tia pee MArty Stet with How and Kehengod, Senat

the transcripts on Lee Harvey Oswald's telephone conversations in Mexico

City were available for Committee review at Headquarters.

18. (Confidential - DEM) LIAISON Tom Moore, Senate Selector.

Committee on Intelligence staff, called to ask if he could review Agency

documents on George S. DeMohrenschildt again on the afternoon of 21 December

1976. Aiter checking with Phil,Fendig SA/DO/O, I told Moore he could begin

his review at 2:00. He also asked to review the Lee Harvey Oswald transcripts

at the same time.

ERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

6/mc

---

## Page 26

13-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Biefing

SSCI J 4

27-0294/12

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Tuesday - 21 December 1976

1. (Internal Use-Only - DEM) LIAISON Called Ed Levine,

sept Select Cout tee on telligence spot to el his the boo period

Levine wants to review. I told him I would arrange for a meeting for him

and (Phil Fendig) SA/DO/O, to review the listing and for a briefing on what.

kind of reports are available.

2. (Unternal Use Only - DIM) LIAISON Iom Moore, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, reviewed, in the OLC office, Agency

"files on George S. DeMohrenschilat and transcripts of Lee Harvey Oswald's

conversations with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

3. (Unclassified - DEM) LIAISON Met with Howard Liebengood;

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who informed me that Committee

statters had met on a Senate Select Committee on Intelligence document

destruction review procedure and that he would send a letter to the Agency

with the Committee's position on this matter.

4. (Internal Use Only - DEM) BRIEFING Bill Miller, Mike

Madigan, Howard Liebengood, Mike Epstein, and Paula Schwartz, Senate

se ect committee or ntergence-stait, met with Bill Graver, C/EA, Bob

3 Kennedy EA, Tony Lapham, General Counsel, Phil Fendig SA/DO/O,

and myself, to discuss Agency programs in Micronesia. (See Memo for

the Record.)

5: (Limited Official Use - CM) CONGRESSIONAL STAFF BRIEFING

Following up on the call of Helsinki Commission staffer Martin Sletzinger 10

Bob Hepworth, Center for Policy Support, for a briefing on the USSR's

USA Institute and its chief, Georgiy Arbatov, and their influence on Soviet

foreign policy decision making and makers, I arranged with Sletzinger fol

a briefing at Headquarteis at 3:30 on. 22 Decomber for Sletzinger, Helsinki

Commission Staff Director Spencer Oliver, and staffer Robert Rand.

INTERNAL USE CNI!

3/me

---

## Page 27

13-00000

SSCIASP

OLC 76-3754

23 December 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

SSCI Requests

Accascination

sSCl

77-0072/2

Attached in order to ensure a bright holiday for you, are

some new SSCI requests.

1. Rick Inderfurth asked for an Agency report on

the 20 December 1976 Jack Anderson column and the

article entitled, "Mr. Death" in the January 1977 Playboy

magazine.

Regarding the Anderson article, I think we

should particularly comment on the statement in the first

column that Lctelier carried the sensitive papers in his

briefcase in order to prevent their theft by CIA.

2. Mike Madigan called to inquire about the status

of the 13 December 1976 request to see files on six Cubans.

I said we were in the process of gathering materials. He

added that the Committee would also like access to Agency

materials on two Cuban exile organizations: Alpha 66, and

SENE (Second Front National Escamrey).

Donald I. Massey

Atts

Distribution:

nrig - Adse

N-OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

OLC/DEM/ksn

---

## Page 28

13-00000

16-17

SECRET

SENSITIVE

SUBJECT: Fact Sheet re Fidel Castro's Allegation that

CIA is Responsible for the 6 October Crash

of a Cuban Airplane near Barbados and Other

Terrorist Acts

1.

In his speech of 15 October 1976 in honor of the

Cubans killed in the 6 October crash of the Cuban airplane

near Barbados, Fidel Castro said that he intended to abrogate

the anti-hijacking agreement between Cuba and the United

States because, he said, the CIA was responsible for the

destruction of

the aircraft and that CIA is backing a

terrorist campaign against Cuba.

CIA is planning to assassinate him. In the speech Castro

said that Cuba has controlled a CIA agent over the past

years who had been asked by CIA to install an audio device

in the office of Osmani Cienfuegos.

Cienfuegos is Secretary

of the Executive Committee of the Cuban Council of Ministers,

is the member of the Central Committee of the Cuban Communist

Party responsible

for Africa and the Middle East, and is Fidel

Castro's principal advisor on African affairs.

Three people have been accused of responsibility for

the crash of the Cuban airplane.

They are Hernan Ricardo

LOZANO, Freddy LUGO, and Luis POSADA Carriles.

CIA has no

information on LOZANO or LUGO. At one time we had a relation-

ship with POSADA, but it was

; terminated in early 1974. Our

Caracas Station/ had occasional contact with him after

that,

and the last time he was met by an Agency officer was in June

1976, at which time he asked us for help regarding a visa

matter.

His request for help was turned down.

The FBI and

the Department of State have been informed of the above

regarding LOZANO, LUGO, and POSADA.

There is no CIA connection

with any of the

other terrorist incidents cited by Castro

in

his 15 October speech.

3.

In

regard to Castro's announcement that the Cuban

government has had control over a CIA agent for ten years and

that this agent had been ordered to install an audio device

in the office of Osmani Cienfuegos, Castro was evidently.

referring to an intelligence collection operation begun by

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

SENSITIVE

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 025231

---

## Page 29

13-00000

•SECRET

SENSITIVE

this Agency in 1967 when we asked the agent to report on

Cuban military, economic, and political matters.

From 1967

we have met him a number of times when

he traveleese celed have communicated with him ena

coded radio message and secret writing while he was in Cuba.

We gave him

an audio device in January 1975 which he told us

he installed in Cienfuegos' office in March 1976. Obviously

We have attempted on two or three occasions

to actuate the device and being unable to do so we concluded

that either the device had never been installed or that it

had malfunctioned.

4.

We asked the agent in early October to inform us

regarding the possibility that Castro might travel to Angola

to participate in that country's independence celebration.

Castro insinuated in his 15 October speech that we had asked

about his travel plans in an attempt to assassinate him.

This,

of course, is absolutely untrue.

travels of Fidel Castro and other high-level Cuban officials

as part of our standing objective to cover the Cuban leadership.

On this specific occasion we were particularly interested in

whether Castro would visit Algeria, Somalia, Mozambique or

other African countries if he traveled to Angola.

Castro also quoted an earlier, undated message

attributed to CIA which asked the agent a series of questions

about Cuban government reaction to terrorist acts against

Cuba. Such a message was actually sent to the agent in May i^

1974.

The purpose of this message was to develop intelligence

on how terrorist attacks against Cuba by anti-Castro exiles

affect relations between the United States and Cuba.

CIA is"

not repeat not engaged in Cuban exile terrorism against Castro's

Cuba.

SE

S

N

2

S

CRET

I

I VE

---

## Page 30

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

arrassination

Journal - Office of legislalive Counsel

Friday - 3 December 1976

SSCI J6

Page 2.

77- 0310l1

1. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON

I called tidward Mattin,

Aiministrative Assistant to Senator Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.),

and told him I had heard that Bob Hunter, also on the Sonator's staff,

had been in touch with the State Department about the Scnator's interest

in talking with Viktor Belenko about his wife and family. I told him there

was no objection to the Senator meeting with Belenko but that Belenko has

said he does nol want to talk with anyone about his domestic situation in

the Soviet Union. I pointed out that the Soviets alc trying to prey on

Belenko's domestic situation and added that it was preferred by Felenio

that there be minimal publicity concerning any contacts. Martin said he

would discuss the matter with Senator Kennedy and be back in touch with

me.

5. (Confidential - DEM) BRIEFING Accorpanied Elliot Maxwell,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to a meeting with John Berg,

DD/FR, (Dale Liemer], DCD, and Erry Vidal, O/SA/DO/O, in connection

with Maswell's upcoming trip to the West Coast. Maxwell is going lo visit

with DCD ind FR repiesentatives in San Francisco and perhaps contact

representatives of these offices in Seattle, Washington, Maswell subsequently

informed me there was some opposition to his visiting contractor sites aud

therefore this would not be part of his trip.

I delivered in Maxwell a paper proparcd by Harry Fitzwater, D/O1,.

which Maawell had a Siod for ai the Seleci Committee visit to the Specia

Trining Center on 21 October 1976. The paper was in oudire of the

presentation made on EO 11905 in Operations Courses given at the Center.

6. (Internal Use Only - DEM) LIAISON I called Torn Moore, Saile

Select Committes on Intelligenes stafi, to let him know that I thought he could

begin review.of the GeorgeS. DeMohrenschildt files about next Wednesday,

8 December 1976. Moore said Howard Liebengood, also of the Scleet Committe:

stali, also wanted to look at these materials and he might want to start with

Office of Security files on 6 December. Howerer, Liebengood never called

to make firin arrangements. Moore expressed particular interest in a letter

DeMohrenschildt had sent to the Director in Seplember and I said I would ty

to have it available for him on Monday.

GORRIDENTIAL

---

## Page 31

13-00000

Roview Staff:

28 July 1975

75/1668

Mr. Willian G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee To Study Governmental

Operations With Respect To Intelligence

Room G- 308

Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D. Ge

20510

Dear MI. Niller:

The attached paper is in response to a request for

files and matorials relating to the 1967 IG Report on

• Assassinations. The question was posed to Mr. Scott

Breckinridge during, his 2 June 1975 appearance before

the Senate Select Connittee.

Sincerely,

Stes

Walter Elder

Assistant to the Director

Attachnent:

As stated

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SECRET

17 July 1975

Subject:

SSC Request to Breckinridge During his 2 June Appearance,

for Files and Materials relating to the 1967 IG Report on

Assassinations, Including Tab A after Page 77 of the Report.

Response:

A search has been made for the files of the Chief, WH

•Division in 1967 (Desmond Fitzgerald), and those of Col.

•J. C. King. At that time Mr. Fitzgerald was alive; he

has since died and his files do not exist as an integral

collection, although portions may exist in different

holdings in WH Division. Col. King had retired at the

time of the IG inquiry, but he was still working under a

special contract and was at the Headquarters Building

at Langley where he had retained some personal files;

his files are no longer identifiable.

Other materials, reviewed by the Inspectors in 1967 were

limited in nature, some of which have been made available

to SSC Staff members in envelopes in which they have been

held since 1967. The SSC Staff members have had access

to the project files of QJWIN, WIROGUE, ZRRIFLE and

2 (EMDEED.

Should they wish

access to the files relating to the anti-Diem coup, they

can be made available on request.

1:2.

tri

Ime

---

