# 104-10120-10376

## Page 1

1104-10120-10376

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Backgrou a use Only

* Do Not Reproduca

SR/10-61-0066

3 February 1961

MEMIORANDUM FOR: Chiel, Central Cover GrOup

ATTENTION

:Ir. Thonas Strange

SUBJECT

: Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessuent

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidatas

1.

A meeting was hold I February 1961, to discuss the

leasability of conducting field assessment of potential REDSKIN

agent candidates by staff psychologists ofthe Assessment and

Evaluation stail, Off, under suitable non-official) cover.

Conferees were lesseurs Thomag Stranga

and (John Lynch) of Central

Cover Group, John Gittinger of ISD, Dr'' Janes Lau)and Dr. John

Golder of the ASE Staff, OTR,

and Fielder Dudley of SR/10.

The

problen discussed in para 2 below was recognized and tentative

agreement reached on the basic proposal discussed in para 3

belon.

2. Heretofore field assessments have been conducted by.

SR/10 case officers whose capabilities in the rather esoteric

science of psychological assessment are, at best, based fundà-

mentally on intuition and subject to variable degrees of objec-

Elvity.

Furthermore these case officers reveal their Agency.

connection on initial contact supported by credentials in allas.

Thus all agent candidates screened In the field become aware of

Agency interest to exploit legal

travel to the USSA for Intelligence

purposes.

These include a considerable percentage who are ecreened

out during the initlal Interview or subsequently as a result of

Headquarters assessment.

3. The Problem:

To screen out unsuitable REDSIIN agent candida-es

without revealing Agency interest and to reduce possibilities

of irrational reaction, 1.9., going to the Press or writing

letters to the President shen later approached by an Agency

representative proposing as intelligence mission.

3I00

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SR/10-61-0066 cont.

SUBJECT:

Basic Proposal to Cover Flold Assessment

of Potantial REDSKIN Agont Candidates

Fadiground Use di

Do Not Repioduce

b.

To restrict revelation of SR Division safo apart-

ments, staff employeas and general tasks gernane to REDSKIN

operations only to those candidates most likely to be

accepted. for recrultment.

To cut dom on the necessity of procesaing Provisional

Operational Approvals on all loads to be contacted for 1n1tial

screening, thereby reducing the heavy workload now imposed

on the Office of Security and the CI Staff by SR/10.

4. Basic Proposal:

8.

To send stall psychologists of the Ass staff, OrR,

conducted assessment men tempte

REDSKIN agent candidates, baged on leads furnished by/ 3R/10':

spotter notsork, The staff psychologists yult represent

themseyes as emolonges or consultants of Psychological 2

ISD, concuryang Intervlews on behalf of anonyneus lout actual

propriatary cover can be provided if and when appropotato.

The proprietary organisations can provide full "backstopping"

througbout every normal working day. Appropriate documanta-.

tion 1s to be provided in true nans or alias, whichever is

appropriate in any particular case.

b. As a test run, trelve potential REDSKIN agent

candidates in the New England area have been selected for

inttial contact and assessment by Dr. Joba Golder as s000

as this proposal hay been concurred in and approved. Candi-

dates in the midrest are tentativaly scheduled for screening

by DI. Janes lau during the latter hall of february.

03

Those agent sandidates recoumended as likoly prospects

oy the staff psychologists will then be contacted by SR7IO

cast oricers, when Provisional Operattonal Approvals have

been granted, who will ascertain willinguess and avallnbility

for travel In the USSB on intelligence missions. thes

resporse is affirmative each candidate will be invited to

Washington for full Headquarters assessment and

possible

recruitment.

--

---

## Page 3

4-00000

ANTO CA

SR/10-62-0066 cont.

Do Not Reoroduce

SUBJECT:

Basic Propogal to Cover Fleld Assessment

0f Potontial REDSKIN Agent Candidstes

5. Earliest consideration of this proposal ig requested

so that the time consumming screening and processing of suitable

REDSKIN agents can be accomplished in time for utilization during

tha 1961 travel season.

Any questions concerning this proposal should be directed

to Flolder Dudley, SR/10, extension 8297.

÷==.

=* HOWARD OSBORH

H21 260239

Doputy Chiof, SR Divistos

3

---

