# 104-10098-10072

## Page 1

104-10098-10072

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISRATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

enof Station, Mexico City

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXIME REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

TO

INFO.

FROM.:

SUBJECT VI

Chief, It Diviaton

344

ACTION

IRED; REA

RENCES

24

As a result of the recent rolen done of the LIFtAT

and livor trojoct, it cane to headquarters attention that

"alloved to tave been terminated, vas still

covered by the LiliVOY Project.

3. According to H1UlA-14676, LIEHVOY-8 WAs the cause of

assecurity problen for LINNVOY In February 1960 when be requested

release fron LILNVOY and a transler to his parent organization, the

LIENVOY-8 as described ra a

"sour" sationalist mo alsapproved of obYOlE's (ahering of the

43.

Headquarters now notes that hlliVOY.&'s CleRrance has

never been cancelled and there is no agent service decord or

termiestIon roport In his 1116. LIKIVOY-8 WAS Included 1a the

IXINVOY Project toneral request for the 1961/63 project year, but

not for the 1862/63 year. The field project reneval request for

the 1969/64 Jesr 1ncluded bla again.

" It ls requested that the Station Inform Headquarters of

the present status of LIENVOI-8 (202-118406).

Is he has boes

terminated, please forward an Agent Service Record. Il he la

(st11] bolng used, please provide a ourtent analysis of his rella-

bility and coments on any security probelus present in light of

dis ections, and

reputation in 1960.

END

OF DISPATCH

D188T1t141O3:

081*

CoS,

Mexico City

#15469

31 Oct6

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

110118027

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

2, 101

DATE

29 October 1969

HOS FILE NUMBER

201∞ 118406

PRIGINATING

---

