# 104-10096-10047

## Page 1

104-10096-10047

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AST

15 May 1972

MENORANDUN OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT

:Meeting with Hal Hendrix, Il May 1972

1. Hal Hendris called my home on 10 May, saying that he was

in Washingion änd wished to see ne. Arrangemoits wore later made lo

mect hin in dorntown Washingion at a streci corner at 8:00 amn on

11 May. I picked him up as scheduled, and after driving around awhile

vc had breakfasi at the Marriot Nictel in Rossly, aiter which I drove

him lo the airport so he could catch lhe 10:30 a.m. plane to New York.

2. Hendrix had a number of points lo convey, bu! nons of ther

were of such importaace fo: him to have made a trip to ashiagton

just to coc inc. Thorefore, his explanation scumo plausibio that he war

in Washington basically to see jerry Hamifin ai tic Limo/Lic bureau

to discuss a icad on who mighi have leaked iTI docurnents lo Jaci Andereo

Hendris explained that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffian"

named Enu Goodfriend that the person who furnished thic I'll documents

to Jacl: Anderson was Irving Davidson, an old friend of Andoreon, who sore

yearn ago had once set anide a cosk in his office for Anderion lo use on

occasion. Goodfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a number

of her Warhingion contacis publiched carly in the IT scandal days had

included Davidson somewiere in the group. Davidson is describeú as a

lobbyict for one as more Latin American Governments as vell as for

Istoel. Hannitin is considored a very knowledgcable ard trusied friend

by Hendrix who wanted Hannitin's opinion whether Davidson might in

fact he a source of Anderson's. Hannifin'e initial impression was

that this was a somote possibility, but he said he would chock around and

try and talk to Davidson himsoll lo see unether ho coula set i rice on

the question ofitt. Hendris said he came aray from the mocting wit;

Fannifin picily well convinced tiat the load to Davidson as the source or

ITI documents was

probably not a good one.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

- 2m

3. Hendris commented to me that the general feeling in i. X.

in that there may be two pencirations in the Washington oftice, two iin

the N. Y. office, and one in their Cleveland office. Fie diù not claborate.

4. Hendrix made the following comments about the ITT/Chile

documents:

A. He was aware that Raymond Brittenbam, whom he

described as a senior Vice Prosident and a hit of a fuddy-duddy

who enjoys Harold Geneen's confidence, had first acen Ichu McCone

and then come to. Washington recostly to talk with Ageacy represente

about the III/Chile documents. One proposal thai Brilcohan had

thought of discussing with the Agency was that several sensitive

documento be turned ovos do the agency for safekceping. He did

not seem to know whether this had actually been discussed by

Brittenham with the Agoncy, Hendrix azid that I rittenham had

diccussed with the Agency what I'IT might gay in the Serate

boarings, what the Agency might say, die.

(I. did not acknowledge

having known tat Erittenbom met with ageasy coproconutiras,

raying that this was presunably & lt floor matter.

He might not

have boliovad ine, but i thought il better not lo confisi les fact

to him that & contact had in fact taken place cince he apparently

did not talk to Brittenham himself about this. )

B. Enu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington

retained by ITT as counscl for the espected Senate hearings on

Chilean activitios of IIT, has told ITI officials that be thinks

the timing and intensity of the Senate sub-commitics interest in

the Chilean activities of IIT wiil depend on to goneral political

cituation in the U.S., particularly in Viet Nam. Schafer has boch

in touch with Pat ITolt, the sub-committee zide.

C.

None of the I'IT documerts or Chile have been turned

over yet to tho Sente sui-committee. The docurnente are still

being worked on by iT'I. When preszed at to the quantity involved,

Henizix said the lotal is about 500 documents.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• 3.

D. The three documents liendri: mentioned to me at our

last mecting as being incriminating from the point of view of

documenting ITT funds of political activitica in Chile have not

been destroyed. ITT's chief lawyer in N. Y. has told Hendri::

that while away on a trip recently, at least four young lawyers

in his offico read these documents. He tried to transfes onc

of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blow

the whistle on ITT over these documents if transierred. One

of tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about these

documents. As a resuli, the documents connot be destroyed.

It ic not clear, however, whether IT'I plans to turn these threa

documents over to the Senate. Evidonially ITI had first hoped

to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekeening in

preference to turning them over to the senate..

E. It has been determined by ITT lawyers that biocking

out proper names in docurnents before they turn the document

over to the Senate sub-committee is permissable. The ITI

lawyers are now going over ali 500 documenia to do this, concentra

on the names of Chileans. If they finally turn over the three

sentitive documents to the committee, names of persons, banks,

and finding mechanisms will be deleted, but the basic purpose of

IT'T funding Alessandri cannot be hidden.

I. In discussing these three decuments, Hendris said

that the man in N.Y. to whom II I was to have paid the money for

Alessandri was (fnu) Orchard, a Chilean employed by UN Secretari:

(rather than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN). The comp

through which the payments were to be made was the Lone Slui

Shipping Company. (This agreer with information in the files).

I acked whether the Swiss Bank account number for other trans-

actions was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said

that no Swise Bank account was involved. WhenI pressed and

Bald my understandiug wes that carlior he had told me moncy fos

the Edwards group went through & Swiss account, he merely

aaid there were no references to thot in these three documentr.

He thon said one of the three documents was unfortunately a

mostage from Gerrity authorizing thei the Alessandri movemeni be

given "half the sum recommended by liendris."

---

## Page 4

14-001000

)

5. Hendrix spoke by telephone to Eerrellez on 9 or 10 Nay at

which time Berrellex reported on a meeting that day with FÜBRIG-2

in Buenos Aires. This was the firat time that they had met since their

early April meeting in N.Y. Berrellez told FOBRIG-? that ho had not

been able to make the deposit on the second $100, 000 foi reasons Fiendrix

had explained earlier to me. FUBRIG-? was concerned by this and asked

that IT T do everything possibie to esume these payments since he had

money troubles. (Berrellez remarked, however, that@UBRIG-2 seemed

in very good spirts porsonally, and quite optimistic about the chances

of the opposition in Chile). Hendrix plans to rcopen the question of resumin

payments to the Edwards people in Chile when he gets back to N.X. and

BeeB Gerrity.

. 6. The U.S. manager of the IIT telephone manufacturing plant

in Chile slipped up to the States a few days ago and reported that he

thought the government would be moving in on the ITT property very

soon. He had already been authorized by the company lo send his

furniture up. IT'T is also asking Benjamin Holmes to come up lo the

U.5, for a visit. I reirarkod tha: my recollection was that Holmes

was on rather good personal contact with I'resident Salvador Allende,

and Jose Toj, but Hendrix commented that even Horses was noir under

suspicion by the Government of Chile.

7. Hondrix heard yesterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) of the

Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had

left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a book seller's

association according to a press item which appeared within the last

two wocks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew.

anything about it which I raid I did not.

8. He had a rather interesting explanation of the by-play in

Chile on turning the ITT nationalisation quistion over to the Congicis to

dacide.

Ecrrellez reports that there has been a delay in Allende's

proposal that Congress handle the ITI nationalizalion because of

disagreement on how to procced; The fear of some haid-liners vas

that the sovernment was not being tough chough on ITI. Allonde's intent

apparently is to maño a proposal lhai the Congiess would be forced to

rejost licioby giving tha Prosidoni a chanco in cail à plebiscite on ile

issue which, being about IIT, he could not possibly lose. An interesting

thoupht.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

- 5-

?. The daughter of Hendris is engaged to Lewis ("'Ion"')

Constantine, who is coplying for a job with the Agency. He las passed

certain crams and was to have an interview in Washington on ll May

followed by a physical exam shortly aiterwards. A hitch has deveioped

in that he was originally considered for some sort of & job in the photo-

graphic ficld, but he has been told the job has now been filled by someone

who scturned to the job to thai instead he is boing oficred a 2-3 year

contract, probably to go lo Leos. He is not sure of the career opportunity

a contract status would give him, and is torn between this situation and

some offer now being made by InS. He has long wanted a job with the

Agency. (Ferdrix climed that Constantine is not aware that his dancee

once worked for the Agency and that she has stuck to hai cover siory as

far ne employment goes. Hendriz made a big point of thic.) I said it

would be possible to check what the situation was and to find out what the

Agency's intentions vere toward this person, but trot i could not aífoci

in any way the decision of hiring, or undce what conditions. Hendrin

was carol at all tiros not to act for special treatment, but rather he

exproosed a slight degree di concern er to the apparent change is job

offers. I replied that as far as I wag aware, any person who was hired

on a contanci basis no proved himseli to be oi exceptionally ligh

capability could end up as a career employee with us, int it word repena

on employinent ceilings, etc. at the time such a switch was actrely

considered. He reemed satistied with this answer.

I acid I wouid choci-

and let him know if teze were any unsual circumstonces in this case.

My improssion is that Hendriz is not overly fond of this follow, but

respects him and would not try to, interfere on his bohole either way.

Jonathan G. Harke

C/WII/CA

---

