# 104-10111-10004

## Page 1

104-10111-10004

004 ronu 2023 RELEASE ÜNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Chief, SB

DATE:

16 Nov 60

FRON :.

A/Chief, SB/3

SUBJBCT:

10

(Live Address - (Eastchester), NY)

43872

SB/3

Subject live address in name Daniel L. CARSWELL, (14 Bton

Place, Eastchester, NY, was originally set up in August 1960 by

MO was advised that there would probably be no mail,' and

that should any inquiry be made, the householder should affirm

that CARSWElL is an engineering company employee, has been living

at the residence for about twe years, originally came from Penn-

sylvania, is about 40 years old, and is single. He supposedly

is away on a butiness trip.

BARREl' The Elven resonce is the home or (oba and t12een

He was born in 1917, and is employed by a Chevrolet

Sales Company in the Bronx, N. I.

In Sept. 1960, SAC/MFO was advised that Subject had been

arrested, and was requested to brief (BARRI)6the householder, con-

cerning the details of the cover story then rpovided by CoD, which

differed from the original story provided by JMARC (above) cuty ir

that the fact the CARSELl was employed by the firm of Victor

VACHUTA in NYC was added, and the story was altered to the extend

that CARSWELL had been an Air Force civilian employee until May

1960.,

He had been employed by VACHUTA since Sentender 1960. It

is not apparent how long CARSWELL is supposed to have lived at the

(Eastchester address; however, his NYC drivers licence bears the

Eastchester) address, and the license was issued in August 1957.

06

MO was requested to disclose no GOLIATH Interest to (BARRY,

unisi

some decision will have to be made as to what to tell BARRY)at that

time.

5. Suggest that we advise MO of possibilities of inquirly

at this time,

and have them affirm with householder that if

queried, (BARRY) acknowledge that CARSWELL has resided there; that

he left on a business trip is in August 1960; that BARRY) has not

heard from him since; that 4RRy) had checked sith his employer,

Who advised BARRY that CARSUELL had been delayed and would be

out of town for several more months.

I suggest that whether or not

OU BARRY is aware from newspapers or through mo that CArs.L is in

prison, he be advised not to offer this information to inquirers,

but to play an innocent part in the whole matter of the imprisonment.

13/00

---

## Page 2

Phala

It is alde suggested that we attempt to ascertain through

PSD and CI,, Just what mall CARSNEll anticipates iny be directed to

the Eastchester)address, 1.0., to whom it will be addressed.

one of the earlier cables from the field, the station advised that

CARSWELL's story was that he had no relative and was single.

latest cable makes mention of letters to CARSELL's relatives and

the Eastchester address..

It is also suggested that theo

station briefod CAls.buu on

his ostensible householder - John BARRY, wife Elleen; approx. age

43 yrs old; he is employed as an automobile salesman in the Bronx.

---

