# 104-10177-10181

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10177-10181

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STi.

1.286551

800- ÷01

REFORE OF COVET ASCESSMENT

Tuls Report o: Covert losescuone le entrusted to C. iM/SA.

It may be retained in the operationl perionnel ille.

erent. further interpret.tion:

intomation provided on this

individuel 1s desired, please contret the Assescent and Bralua-

tion Stoil, MS, extension 3247.

Name: Victor PANEQUE Batista

Detes of Assessment: $ 13

August 1904

Date of Birth: 13 Septender 1920 Education: 4-5th grade level

Official Requesting Assessment: Bob Wall: JAVE

Projected Job Assignment: PM/I

COSMENTS:

MI. PANaque wes one o1 six memuers

who were given briei

psychological assesoments on 8-13 August 1964.

They were given e sroup baitery oi ability

checked personali-

t; questionnaires, and esci was interileed for at least an hour.

The test bettery consisted of & serles of measures or

non-verbal intellectual

abalities, involvins principally the per-

ception of reletionghips betreen

cujects and

manipulation of numbers and aumeric.l concepts.

has not be used extenstrely with Cubrn groups, experience with

it elsewhere suggests its usefulness in predicting adaptability to

the intellectual demends of trining.

On the attached forms,

Mr. PANAQUE's neme: apperrs on :

scale which shows his periormance

relative to other Cubans tested to dote.

Mr. PiNEQUE is

the sidest. least inteillrent,

experienced member oi the radop group.

The tests indicate that he .

has little ability to dca! vith abstract or symbolic especus oi

& problem.

cide will be of little value to him;

reiner, actunt nore on the

equinment and considerole time or

piretice will be necessor to

manoel the basic sxills.

inther simple man ino:

throuch circunstrnies, menaged to attain e

position of comnand end prescige.

His post success ippeer: sue

more to his outsong, ssressive, ond soli-onf dent manner than

in intellectual soilitie:.

Whether he will be willing to rssume a

subordinate position on : term 1s coubifu:.

it t: quite

ikely that he could ni sould ettempt io cominade rd coniroi mug

team leader who hes not bed the experiences and positlons of deeder-

chip that he (raieve, hes and in the post.

Morevier, he socas to

be e rather indooendont individual uno mino, enorje

in entirttios

either o his on or

• KUBARK. 011-1n-.11:

RETURN TO

Background Use

Do Not Reproduce

Do No Reproc

Limita Ramina

2ù1.256 3,2

---

