# 104-10131-10026

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10131-10026

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

windlin!

18 April 1973

¡DORANDUL FOR: Acting Chief, Suppori Evaluation Section

SUE TECT

Raymond Boris Tarasoff]

[4641 108/23

I. Subject is presently being considered for Contract Type A

employnent as an Intelligence Analyst with Depuiy Directorate for

Operations/Information Services Division. He has neither been

polygraphed nor entered on duty. Invitee clearance ras deniea on

21 february 1973;

investigation has now been completed and disclosed no:

Field

unfavorable inforration. A waiver of Hi 10-3

will be required in Subject's case in view of the Mexican citizen-

hip and residence of a brother-in-law.

2. Subject is a 24-year-old, married, male, who was born in

Subject's

ather, Baris limitci, tarasof lost 104037 entered this countr

from Turkey in 1923 and becare a naturalized United States citize.

in 1936.

A review of his security file reveals that he entered on

duty with the Agency as a GS-OT, Intelligence Analyst in Februar 1955;

was converted to Staff Agency In 126 anot Tee 132753/101

was a stait employee, GS-Oo, from April 1957 to September 1903, ana

yas approved for Contract lype Buse in July 1954. His sister,

(Barbara Tarasoff. Rosillo)(os" 538593/ID),7 vas a "summer only" employes

Rosillo (OS/NR), a Mexicer

citizen, and resides in Mexico. Subject's parents also continue to

reside in Mexico were his father had been assigned for a number of

years prior to his retirement.

3. Subject was graduated from college in lay l9M, receiving a

Bolo degree with a major in Spanish. Develoved current employment as

a substitute teacher with the Mentown, PA, school district was co:-

firmed and satisfactory as were all listed prior employments.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

51g0

---

## Page 2

14.00000 .

siren references and four developed indomanis furnished fevoraule

restimony regarding subject's character, habits, noral conduct, and

Jugalty and recommended him for a position of truat with the federal

Government. Neighborhoods were verified and favorable and local

police and credit checks were negative or non-derogaior.

4.

RI, K and Office of Security Indices checks were no recora

or non-derogatory. National Agency Checks were negative with tre

exception da state passport which disclosed thai Subject vas issued

passport (#4-333647 on 12 June 1958 in Mezico, purpose and place of

issued to Subject in June 1963 at Washingion, D.C.

Subjeci appears to meet security criteria for Contract Iype A

utilization by the Agency. His investigation was entirely favorzole

It is not felt that the

Mexican citizenship of his brother-in-law poses a securisy risk, ana,

accordingly, it is recommended that:

a. Exception to HR 10-3 be granted;

b.

subject be security approved for Contraci Tyre

A employment by the Agency, subjeci to polygraph,

During polygraph IRD

-2-

REPOCT

3/80

---

## Page 3

14.00000 .

light;

d.

If Suojeci is subsecuently appsored for entrance

on duty, he be artoried a personal interrier sna

made avare of the Aganey policies regerding

contact with foreign nationals.

03

[G. E. Southern, JreJ

Support Evaluation Section

CES: 6j%

-3-

RECOCT

'Ідо

---

