# 104-10193-10016

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10193-10016

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

PRECESSINO

АСТИОМ

-SECRET

XXX

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

по UNINA MI?

MLADQUAATIOS DISA

ATTRACT

TRON

Chief of Station,

JAWAVE 11

SULT TIPIC/Operational

Dehicling Repart - Santlaja SANCHEZ de lA TOrre

ACTION REQUIRED:

None

REFERENCES:

WAVE 2733,

dated 15 August 1963

(B) MEXI 5507, dated 26 July 1963

! MI-SOMMA

80.90. 1U. 1.=

Transmitted herewith, Fyd,

is a debriefing roport..:

on Santiago SANCHEZ de la Torie.

Subiect airived irthe t. 8.,

via Mexico in late august,

1963.

Thi debrieflus containg

Information ro tha MRR toll up in dis, 1903.

Attachment

"A"

contains a list of subject's friends that are currently

employed in power plants in Cuba.

Attachment "B" 13 a

debriefing report on Angel BENCONO who Sanchez belleves

was responsible for the MR roll up.

END OF DISPANCH

ATTACHNENTS:

Debilofing Reports, 1 cy ea. herewith

INDEX-P

RECIALS

RI/AlI

RI/MIS

HIP/iS

57-1Dic1

Distribution:

3-C/SAS, w/atts/h/w

Erik:!:

Yat6

CLASSINCATION

SECRET

Billied

ДАЛЕ ГУРЕД

4 Oct.

63

DATE DETPATCHED

11 1963

UFGA-11653

UT. DRS FiLE MUSABIN

+3 19-132-5-9613

---

## Page 2

' I diet.

3 September 1963

5P

DEBRIEFING REPORT : Sintlago BANCHEZ do la Torre - aka "JORe Antondo"

DATE & PLACE

: Safchouso #182, 29-30 August (0900 - 1300 hi's)

CASE OFFICER

•: Claronce E. SNERYAGE

1.

1960.

subjoct began to wurk against the CASTRO regimo with the MRP In

At that time ho was employed in the Santa Clara power plant as a

technician.

His tob was controlling the amount.of electric current that

wag distributed. (Attachmont "'A" contains a list of Subject's friends

currently employed in power plants in Cuba).

On 17 April 1961 Subjoct

nade contact with a KIsARK infiltration tcam and began to assist the team.

Team consisted of Scrundo *BORGES. I

Officer Comment:

AMARGO/1 has confirmed the fact that Subject worked

with his team In Cuba. Subjoct permitted the team to install their Rs-1

set in his house locatud at #219 Carretera de Camajuand in the Clty of

Santa Clara..

He also safohoused the team on occasion and permitted them

to hold mectings at his house.

Aftor the failure of Playa Giron the

team reorganized the MRR In Las Villas Province, selecting Subject to

bu the Clvll Coordinator of the movement in that province. l

04.

was selected as tho Military Coordinator.

On 21 July 1961, whilo

04 i

And Subject yere 10 Havana

for discussions with MRR leaders

(*AMIIOOK/) and|

Dohe KUBARK Infiltration team and many other

members of the ARR in Las Villas, Including Subject's wife, were arrested.

(Discussions were about actions to tako place 20 July 1961).

•from Santa Clara, age 50/55 yrs, called

I Havána and told him not to roturn to Santa Clara as many

people had been arrestod.0!

passed the intormation to. subject but

as subject thought it applied onty to

ne returned to santa Clare

late at night on 22 July.

He went tohis home and on 23 July proceeded

to work at the power plant."

Dintercepted

his way home for lunch and told him that the G-2 was at his home and that

they also were going to the power plant to arrest him.

Subject also

learned that there was surveillance

on his home on the night of 22 July

1961, but the person watching the house had gotten drunk and did not see

subject when he returned from llavana.

From that soment untll

entering

an Emkassy on 6 September 1962, subject lived "black".

Subject procceded to the outskirts of Santa Clara where a friond,

Efrain #WAREN, resided.

His friend told him to go to l:vana.

While

driving to Havana Subject met another person who informed him that the

G-2 had a roadblock on the highway at colon, latanzas, and that all cars

were being searched.

On 24 July 1961, Subject went to a beach called

"GANUZA" located on the north coast of Las Villas near Corralillo.

Subject's sister has a home at "Ginuza" so he left his car there and

proceeded to Havana with some friends of his sister. Later the G-2

confiscated his auto.

(It 1s Interesting to

note that the G-2, after

confiscating subject's auto at the

beach, believed that Subject had

departed from Cuba.

Subject.

thereafter connunicated with his wife by

sending her lelters in jail vla

Miami where. they were postmarked).

SHORE MEATHENSANDEY

NO FIELD DISTRIFUTION

NO FIELD DISTRIP I

CEtO VEGA- 116 53

IS COPY

IO/BR

---

## Page 3

$28.

Pago

2-

When Subject approched.

Whouse he noticod a

"blind moro as if

somond was watching" so he did not go in.

He walked

two blocks to a bus stop.

From the bus stop he could

observo the house

"high rate of speed": Later that

Subject mide

Tsaid that the

the ARR plans.for

movement was "going ahond with their plans"

tho following cay blans" even though thoy were aware

the entire country.

(In Aprit 1962 Subject's wife escaped from the

(outskirts of lavana).

Subject. spent approximatoly one month in the above house (Aug.-sept.

61)

5.

From October 1961 Subject resided with Ester

had known for 10 years:

OcRuz la person hi

Whilo living with CRUZ|he changed his appearance - 04

lost nuch woight, dyed and curled hig hair,

obtained contact lenses.

(C/O Comment :0 Ester CRUZ was arrested approximately 9 May 1962 during

she is_in jail at this time). In November

from Camaruey O

was at that

time willtary coordinator for the MRR and used the name "Angelito".

PrAKa LUCAS, Who was the MR Coordinator of Las Villas

's tro= jaguajay, Las Villas:

Subject

since 1959.0 Ithrough

PYaka "Aribel" whom he had known

encouraged Subject to begin working for the BRE again

An ID card if alias from a medical laborator; was obtained for Subject.

He then obtained a briefcase and began selling medical supplies.

1.8.

owned the laborators GROMBERG LABORATOR

uRR menber worked for ANoßoNd requested that he continue

After' AMBROYC7S was captured two actual

to work.

04.

lid not know the men and denied that he worked for the movement) .

6.

Ir late Novembor, 1961. Subject moved into a

"guest house" where

several other MRR members resided.

House is called House

of Maria de 1a08

*GALLEGA" and is localed on'J" Street between 21st and 23rd Streets, 10

vodado Subject wet "Fernando", the Secursts Chief of the MRA at the suest

He also met

Fernando continues to work in the under also continues to work f

One the undertone to men mone to the is see times but

eturned to Havana.

"Another MRR man residing there was

Arturo *MUGARRA land PANSALON/1 visited the house on occasion. sudjec

Was once picked-up at the house by AMSALON/1.

During

this perfod FNU

took asylus.

There ras much conflict In the HRR

during this period betten AMHOOK/1 and AMBRONC/5.

(Subject has many

letters pertaining to this conflict but they vere left in Mexico.

AMBIDDY/]

is having someone pick up the letters.

Case Officer will attempt to

obtain these letters and review then.

Subject claims he did not hand

carry them to the U.S., as he thought our officials would seize them).

white tany

•42/8R

---

## Page 4

14-00000

04

Pago 3 -

04.

04

7..

In January 1962. FArturo MUGARRand

to depart from Cuba..

when ANJAVAlA and

(C/O Comment:. A woman named

was 04

11VINg WICh/SUGARRA This Sirl lator cago to the USA via the Brazilian

Embassy) Of LUGARRA Bigroup consisted o1

Owliò "Is bad,

likes money, women, etc".,

and subjoct.

called Subject hore in Miami on 28 August and wants to talk with

"hIm).

8.(MUGARRA) Informed AMBRONC/S that ho had doubts about Juan *BUSTAMENTS,,

"Roly"

ag he had asked too many questions re what AMBRONC/S had

brought to Cuba.

AMBRONC/5 decided. to call a

"false meeting" of the

chiefs of the movement to test BUSTANENTE but "someone objected to this".:

In February 1962, a mcoting of the leaders of the MRR took place and

MBRONC/S reorvanized the movement.

nce in February 1962 at the house Oyubject met ANBRONC/5 only twico-

Jand another time in

March, 1962 whon the assassination of Juan *MARINELLO failed.

The

Operation failed as the automobile to be used. in the assassination attempt

was stolen on the day of tho proposed Operation.

The driver of the car

was to be Orlando *CRUZ, brother of Ester' CRUZ.

The ARR suspected

Orlando CRUZ

after this

incident as ho is a person who "likes money" and

the theft was"quite a coincidenco". (Orlando CRUZ is presently in Miami.

He called Subject on 28 August and wants to see him). AMBRONC/5 informed

AMBRONC/5 placed

in charge ot the radio sets.

selected to be the only person in direct contact with the RADOP In place

of Juan BUSTAMENTE, AKA

"Roly" 0 BUCARRAl gave subject two radio sets;

one

was placed in the apartment of a sister-in-lawlof subject located U?

The other set was located at *A

Kat 23rd. and I Sts., Vedado,

OX'Street between 3rd and_5th

Sts., Vedaao l the home of

The only persons who knew the locations

of the sets wêre the Radop,,

Esthe MRR Chief and!.

Oy During AMBRONC/5's trip to the

USA 17 April,

1962, Juan BUSTAMENTE, Akal "Roly" discovered where the

radios were hidden.

subject had contacy with.

-Ou land ou during April.

and the group had departed from the area: Du

Subject later discovered that the G-2, had captured a "laige radio"

the apartment of a radio technician namedfeTRoVADIUS.

TROVADIUS, when

captured,

fired at the G-2 and was himself wounded in the shoulder.

TROVADIUS reported that he had seen Juan FALCON in prison and that FALCON

had sadd "people in the G-2 had told me that no one would be wounded or

killed".

The Radop + (AMBUSP/1) Informed subject on Wednesday (9 May 1962)

to take the radio setuput of the house.

Rumors were already circulating

that the Radop and

were captured. Owners of the house where the

radio was cached had moved' to Sanga Clas fis Nomeere did,

As Subject

not attempt to

vas in contact withd

•ick-up the radio until Thursday (10 May) at 0700 hrs. Subject enterec

the apartment building (12 stories high) by the rear.

Upon arrival he

discovered that the glass doors on

the terrace were opened (apartment

was located on the eleventh floor).. These windows are seldom opened.

---

## Page 5

Pago t

Subje

noti

9

en

1:550

the

• bu

*"101

ed

SO

with nis briercase containing a pistol.

lobby"

es tooky

"the clevator

Kto the

ked to the cleventh, floor.

Wart

sed gutetly

to she apartment subjecte

loud

and heard a voice

aS

Lone

comesin:

Subject then proceeded

friend of the movement

friend

had

then

off

FOD

i'd

:00k

theistai

the

ground:

whereithe

atthol

ouse

out

side

isince

to

the

the

ho

was

de

rted

friend

wents

the friend ras arrested held a week and retcasedes Subjec

to pass this Information

renater discovered that MUGARRAi knew tha ty

and that TOTaDIUs had been chorol?

1262 On

59 Ma

Estar Chez and

the house

tried

discovered

subjectithea

this pertodi9th

later heard&tha

the G-2 had ta

blocks from shere he

en over anhouse In Guanabo,

locatedi

was hiding

bject heard that the G-2

had taken a

"blond rada man there" (Possibly AMBRONC/5) G-2 remained at the house

sor tour days:

13. Subject then departed from Guanabo for a few days.

When he returned

one one net Sylvia LNU:, the person who resided at

the house where"

the blond, thin

named "CARLOS" was taken.

water,.in

Syivia and subject met in the

Captain

at o their houses. Sylvia is the wife of a BATISTA Naval

1ees 1u Miami. She, has two.

"CARLOS" usedato live at her house and

"little girls"

Sylvia

there with?the G2.

arter being captured the

The, G-2 'was

that

returned

envelopes" (pads and crystals)

searching

for a

"plastic

•case

* Sy

via told subject tha

envelope and. that when Enriquer

seen the

family: informeda

captured, she hidy

everything, In the house

could

was

under the dos house nethe back

been

Carlos®"*

drusged then he returned to

yard"

OS"

had

the entire house bringing Carlost back and; forth several times for hour

days. Sylvia was forced to open the door

whenever anyone arrived and the

caller was arrestedSylvia was Interrogated and the house was under

surveillance for approximately a month. A friend of Sylvia's from outside

cuba visited her, during this period and was arrested and held for a week:

Sylvia said the

plastic.

items she buried looked like "pads and maps wrapped In

Although she claimed the material was turned over to

subject has doubts that this was done.

the HRR

13108

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Pago

5 -

During Septenber 1962 Subject and his wife entered the Uruguayan

Embassy to remain

in asylum until 19 Junc

1963 when they arrived In

Mexico City via Safe Conduct.

Attachment "g" is a report on Angel BENCONO who subject believes

was responsible for the MRR "roll-up".

Clarence B.

SALERYAGE I

---

## Page 7

4-00000

•ATTACHMENT "A"

*TALLAPTEDRA - (POwer Plant)

3.

Manolito

*FERNANDEZ - Superintendente

de LEON

Superintendente Auxillar

(Bomb Thrower)

REGLA - (Power Plant)

1.

Delfin FRODRIGUEZ

Opcrator Control Room

2.

Ing. F*ROSS

Superintendent

*****

DESPACHO NARANJITO - (Sub-Station)

1. Jalmej*GuIU

# 4488%8

* *

***

OFICINA PRINCIPAL DE DESPACHO

1. Carlos

*MANUEL Pena - Auxiliar of Superintendent

(May be throw a bomb) - He

can give good information.

******************

DESPACHO SANTA CLARA (Santa Clara Dispatching Offico)

1.

Pedro#*LUCAS Galvez. (Jelo Despacho) - Dispatch Chief

2.

Agustin #GARCIA Cabalet - Despachador - (Dispatcher)

Vladimir S. *KLITTING.

coc.....:

86 0:6.2:

AH. "B)

"*UFCA-1653

Cip. 20c-11.

---

## Page 8

MACKENT "B'

Debrierins or Santiago SANCHEZ, de la Torre:

SUBJECT: Ange

I BENCONO (DENCONO reportedly ras

responsible,

SANCHEZ SCOANEXI-5507

-1

Angel BENCONOIs approx matoly

short stocky, approximately

50.

-Ibs

19 years old.

has browng skin,

BENCONO was formerly

'entered the MR: via

employed Ly the Auras Publicas th

with his

Super1ors

guit the

to Havanat where BENCONO began

land Santing

(MUGARRA] In HavanaP SANCHEZ,

Ok 1. o.disciplined quiet

toäpick-upgradios.

4mlnox cam

between barch and say.

2962

HueY

BENCONO hadet rouble.

wet col

brought. BENChNo

reststance suith

(BENCOMO did, not meet lArturo O4

ted

BENCOMOand he appearedator bo

SANCHEZ then bexan using BENCONO

etc

This

activits took place

2. AT tUTO NUGARRA

was

ax

Havana-where he went to dispo

meet MUGARRAZat, the cafeter

the

cafoteria,

turned the car

and

sat down.

A mechantlo dro

two

cars r Although

not

arrested.

Ma y

1:1962

tomobtle.

was. to 0f

Aland his brother arrived at

lac) over to the prospective buyer

•tho

car to test; it/and returned with

as present

Land was quest loned he, was

2. 94

Fich May to September

September SANCHEZ went into a

arrested and held until Noven

from

BENCOMO via SANCHEZ" SIs

SANCHEZ-st11 has saying

tha

streets.

BENCONO said he

did

considering going to thes

hous

formerly was opcrating in the

tophide out incan.-Feb. 1962

another letter fron his siste

and one identified cooterat

to cooperate

sister of BENCONOWs propositi

phas disappeared.

11;.

162,

SANCHEZ Saw BENCONO often.

in In

mbassy but

heard that BENCONO was

uary 1963-S LChEz heard

aples cer (which

orking for the tir in the

in; Ortented

P519636

SASCIEZ nece

ed?

MBENCONQ wa's

a5 G32

man.

In. Decembers 1962

told SANCHEZ

Since

that time

09

c0 16.3

AH.,

"D" lUECA-103

=CC-114

---

