# 104-10179-10222

## Page 1

104-10179-10222

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

P.2edm

Ijens."'

2Jc:

te' e untirhared

=i-

plence nurder ass

Fersonal lie.

22 to Colonial Calligani

20

to li stilta tomo.

08

1.0

magistrate

Immieratien

Genera.

A18

T01a!

Art

eight persons

arpeared before

and pleaded

guilty to

ni ences

aisingt

ir.?

agairst Firearms Act:

•3011

facts

krons: to police.

Accus

Solicitor

Janes Liddell

who uria

that

accused

zero

011

Anguilla

ray because treli

1r.

distress.

Maristrite

seems to have

acrartes

!!e

fines

east: accusei

five

founds on charge

unde

court

=ì

WaS

story.

carirg

Act ini cautiored

Immigration

and discharged

then on charge

Act.

He ordered that arms

ard

annunition

and

explosives recovered by Royal lavy be condemies.

08

or..

fron Washtreur teleram to. Personal 49 pegsirec Tersonal d

Cubans have informed Comzissichen of Police

that they are trying to make their vessel sestor??!

but that.

1j 1t

1s not ready for sea hy morning

charter

of June. 5 rher

+111

vessel locally.

Their Intention is to return to

Miami

and leader of party has sald he mill go treace to

Costa

nica.

A journey to Pue-to Rico in any stail vessel

from here would be hazardous particularly in pagsage round

eastern end of Cuban coast.

We have no direct correxion

with -Puerto Siro and 11 Cubans travelled by afrcher-rould

have to 60 to 11ami.

I cannot dictate to them at ere they

aro

10 80.

Sole legal concern of local authoritles is io see

that

they leave

"shamas pronptly.' ralling that

they would

be denorted.

Despite American request In your Geiegram 08

sugiest that 1t would be most unwise for us to se.i to

arrange uliy special assistence to get these sen ta fuerto

Rico nartioniarly after

surprising lenfercy

of ragtstrate

which of Itself will certainly arouse adverse corrent from

Government of Cuba.

30

Your paragraph 4 emquiring whether Manuel. Ray nas

arrested in party.

Leader of party told Head of jpaúal

Branch privately that he was Ray. but this was not siaitted

by otr.ers.

He was

charged in name of bartinez ars

although

police trink. that ho

may well be Ray, I shink

proper

course 19 to treat hia

as being Hartinez.

1O/RS

---

