# 104-10326-10080

## Page 1

1104-10326-1008

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

_SECRET

MHENO

95-0938136

SENSIND:

PAGE:

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

INFO: C/NR, C/ORMS, LIMITO, MDSX, NR/PGO, ODPD,

CONF: C/ PCS

ÓGC/LIT, PCDORECORD, FILE (2/P)

95 0938136

ASO

PAGE 001

TOT: 0318402 JUL 95

DIRECTOR 346331

SECRET

STAFE

TO :

IMMEDIATE

031840Z DIRECTOR 346331

FROM: LIMIT CHIEF/PCS INFO CHIEF/NR, NR/PGO, OGC/LIT

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUESI TO CONTACT FORMER NWBOLTON EMPLOYEES

REF: NONE

TEXT:

JACTION REQUIRED: PLS HAVE STATION OFFICER CONTACT TWO

FORMER NWBOLTON OFFICERS BY COB 5 JULY AND CONTACT

EOR ASSISTANCE IN LOCATING IDEN B PER PARA 3B.

AS YOU MAY KNOW, AWBOLION HAS BEEN COOPERATING WITH

*THE< ASSASSINATION> RECORDS REVIEW BOARD,

THE PANEL CHARGED WITH

*RELEASING DOCUMENTS ON THE<JFK ASSASSINATION, >BY CONDUCTING A

DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW AND PASSING APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTS .

PANEL HAS SELECTED ITS FIRST BATCH OF DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED

PUBLICLY, WHICH CONTAINS THE TRUE NAMES OF UTO FORMER SULIONZ

OFFICERS WHO RETIREDSCOVERID IN THE 1970S AND, TO HOS KNOWLEDGE?

CHAVE NOT BROKEN COVER! IN ORDER TO CHALLENGE THE BOARD'S

DECISION, WE NEED TO SHOW THAT CERTAIN CONDITIONS EXIST PURSUANT

TO THE LANGUAGE OF THE APPLICABLE LAW.

THUS, WE NEED THE INPUT

OF THEWO FORMER OFFICERS TO COMPLETE OUR RESEARCH AND WRITTEN

WE REQUEST (STATION'S ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING THEM AND

DEMONSTRATING TO THEM THAT THE REQUEST FOR INFORMATION IS

AUTHORIZED AND LEGITIMATE.

INWBOLTON

SPECIFICALLY,

WE WOULD LIKE AN OFFICER WHO HAS

DOCUMENTS TO CALL THE FORMER EMPLOYEES (IDENS

AND B), IDENTIEY HIMSELE AS A COLLEAGUE-FROM THEIR-FORMER.

EMPLOYER AND REQUEST A BRIEF MEETING.

IF IDENS ARE AMENABLE,

EXPLAIN IN PERSON THAT HQS IS

FACED WITH THE POSSIBLE

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THEIR NWBOLTON AFFILIATION.

WE NEED TO KNOW

THEIR DATES/ PLACES OF ALL OF THEIR TOURS,

THE MOST SENSITIVE

OPERATIONS IN WHICH THEY WERE INVOLVED AND ANY OTHER NWBOLTON

EQUITIES THEY ARE AWARE OF THAT WOULD BE AFFECTED BY REVELATION

OF THEIR FORMER EMPLOYMENT.

STATION CAN THEN CABLE THE

INFORMATION SECURELY TO HOS.

-A. WIN THE CASE OF IDEN A, HOS ALREADY CONTACTED HIM

AND WAS ADVISED HE NEEDED MORE TIME TO EVALUATE THE CONSEQUENCES

LOE LIFTING HIS COVER.

BELIEVE HE WOULD BE MORE COMPORJABLE

"SECRET-

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MARNO,

95-0938136

SENSIND

DISCUSSING

PERSONAL AND_ORERATIONAL-DATA IN PERSON THAN OVER AN

OPEN PHONE

EN A LOSE NOTE RESEMEN HOSEAS SOON

UNABLE SO FAR TO GET A CURRENT ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER FOR HER!

AND CURRENT POO ESX NUMBER CASE OS LEARNED THAT SHEERS AN

AND CURRENT P.O. BOX NUMBER.

UNPUBLISHED PHONE NUMBER AND THAT HER

VALID UNTIL 2000. THEY ALERTED NTAGE

WOULD BE CALLING TO COORDINATE LOCAL EFFORTS TO COMMUNICATE

DIRECTLY WITH IDEN B. PLS LET US KNOW SOONEST IF, AFTER

STATION IS UNABLE TO LOCATE IDEN

HOS REUNETS THIS SHORT TIME PUSE DURING THE FORTRAN

AND TRULY APPRECIATES STATION'S ASSISTANCE WITH THIS MATTER

THANKS VERY MUCH DO

5. FTLE:

NONE. INDEX: NONE. DECL OADR DRV

HUM 4-827

ORIG:

DC/PCS/CL/I (COHEN, 43923) ; AUTH: DC/PCS (); COORD:

R/EGO-(-- INFO: OGC/LIT (: REL: DC/NR. CD BX 2051283.

END OF MESSAGE

PAGE:

SECRET

2

---

