# 104-10188-10032

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10188-10032

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S3017

19 June 1963

SUBJECT: Renewal of PrOjeCt LIPEAT POT FY 1981

he attached LIFEAT Projoct Renoval Request

forwarded

¡ for approval.

1. Objectives:

The objoctive of this project is to provide,

chrough a unflateral tolophone tap operation, information

on the

activitios

of selected individuals and groups 1n

response to both Station noods and Headquarters requests.

2. Agonte:

8. LIEMBRACE-8 who normally functions undor the

MKCHARITY Project was activoly employed in tho technical

-phaso of tho operation during. to hono loava perlod of of....

principal outsido case officer, David M. WILSTED.

D. During the past project year, 5 indigenous

basebouse keepers

vero droppod from the project.

and LIFEUD 17,

a married couple, decided on

LIPEUD1A

separation and

eventual divorce, thus making

the continuance of their

basehouse keeping

duties impossible.

LiFEUD 22 and LIFEUD-23,

son and sother, occupy a basuhouse

that was originally

Intended to bo

used fOr LIPEAT but 18 being used only 1n

another operation.

LIFEUD: 27 was granted a POA during

the project your but tas never recruited.

c.

Thron now agents

have been employed since the

last project ronowal. LIYEUD 24 18 an old friend of

HILSTED'a Th MiLl be uDeU an a basenOUgO KOCLIPEUD 25,

latOr HIOnE DICh LIFEUD 26 UnO 18 his airo.

the wise of LIFEUDs had been Included in her husband's

clearance but has now rocolved hor own clearance as a

basehouse keepor.

3. Changos:

'a. Otber than the personnel changes described 1o

paragraph ? abovo, there were no organtzational changes in

the project

In tho past project yoar. At this time no

---

## Page 2

38201

-2

organizational changes can bo forsoon for the coming project

year.

Funds requested for FY 1964 total $83,808

cospared to $99,000 grantod for use 1n 1963.

A great part

of the reduction of 81s, 192 is due in the fact that the

Station programed no nes equipaunt purchasos lor tho

cumiag yoar.

4: Intolligence Production:

Although :be emphasia of tho LIFEAT Projoct 18

on station operational support, the project thruugh May 1963

was totally or partially responsible for 31 positivo infor

mation roports of uhich 29 vero diuseminatod.

disgeminationg, 13 Involvod sho activitles of Juan Jose

AREVALO BormojO or bla solluvory.

3. Effectiveness:

The LIFEAT PrOjeCe 1% a nudel telephono tap

During the last project your LIPEAT continuod

activoly suppore the operations of the station by

providing loads and information on solocrod tarrors.

In addition to this miasion the projoce provided on a

regular basta valuablo information on sitivo Sovlet intoll-

igonco officers, the Pullsh and Yugoslav official Install-

atsona and personnel, solociod Cuban personnol (10 l1nos),

American Conmunists In Moxico, Moxican leftlets and, ox1lo

groups in Mexico.

In tho latter flold the intonairo

covorado of Juan JONe AREVALO Bornujo was partIcularly

revarding.

bellevod that the support provided ochor

station oporations, no CI/CE Information and loads, tho

ability of the unilaloral LIPEAT operation to covor sons1-

t1ve targota withour rorealina Station Interones to the

6. Problems:

In the past year as in tr past lou jeary the

greatest problems havo concerned tha socurity of the operation

and equipmont.

The currons probloma conter on luo devel-

opments:

The Mexico City Colophone system is continually

modernized.

Installation of new underground

cables replaclag the old overhend lines reduce access

to targot lines.

The Telephone Company 18 koeping

---

## Page 3

SEBLET

closer track of the assignaents of 1ta telophone

Iinenon thereby reducing the mobility of tho LIpEat

has saraged to bonewhat dogato

the first of theso problons by making sis tap crossos

1n the telopliono centrals.

A govornnont invoutigation uhich la undor

yay allons investigating crova lo ontor any diatrio

bution box and chock back on any connoction in the

box to see il It to actually In uso.

tonn rang back on a apare which was boing uned by

LIFEAT®

AlL LIPEAT pornonnol havo boon trainod to tako

uhntover actlon would bo nocoyary to prevent, or nogato

tho offocta 01 a sOcurIty slap.

For dotalla of the

prubloma lacod and the procautiona takon by tho station,

100 paragrapa 14.01 sha arrached Projace ourlino.

7: L1a180n:

Not applicablo

8. Intoragoncy coordination:

Not applicablo

0. Plana:

Il 1a plannod that LIfEAT alll au in cho paut

provido valuablo intoraation on a continuing buada on cop

priority cargore and al the gase tian rosely 1lo810lo

anouch to do employed in support of other slation projacte

of opportunity.

LIPEAT hat

sho capability

l roactivating dia coverago un lio Important Cargota DOu

ming covorad by

tho scal-lladson LIENVOY ProjpCe lI tho

lactor should have to bo discodlinuod lor any roason.

10: Funde:

Sufficione fundo haro boon programsod in the el

DIVIaIOn'S FY 1964 bUdgOE pOr ChO LIPEAT Projoct.

11. Rocommendations:

It so requestod that Projoct LIFEAT do approvod

for FY 1964,

1 July

1963 stirough 30 Juno 1961, la tbo

aBount of $83,808.

---

