# 104-10181-10119

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10181-10119

• 2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

ATTH

FROM

Chief, Contact Divlalon

Support Branch (Geculey)

Chief, Miant Pleld Office

SUBJBET • Rand Developisent Corporation

DATE 4 May 1960

RETURN TO CIA

Backgreund Use Only

- Dọ Not Reproduce

RIP : Grant-Glelchauf Telecon of 29 Apr 60

05,08

,d..

On 28. Apist, 1960 I apent neveral houre wich in old friend,

of Rand Dévèlopment Corporation (who peeds no Introduction).

?.

urina the course of conversalion, Dr. Hoaler cold ne the

within the last two-three monthe,

FNU/Webster, the Rand employee

uho defectod in 'Moscon, had wilttes several lettero to his father

1n che US acating that he wanted to come home.

His facher got In

couch with sand, who cold hia to Inform hla son to go to the US Embasay.

The son roplied that he was "not able to."

3.

Beling che lapetuous type, / lumn ta decided that he would

get. to the bottom of the matter, so he reached for the telephone and,

posalbly to the surpolse of:all hands, uas able to reach Webater,

who-la currently in Lentagrad.

Webater did not go into decall but

aald that he would be incerested in soning back fish tyle MooniE)

che ¿lor of Rand's clooing out of tra operations inMoscou,

he left hia car in that city.

Immediately following his telephone

converoation with lebater, Rand told blo uife chat he was golag to

nake his "last trip" to the USSR and would bring back his car.

panying hia on the irlp will be Dea Moorol formerly of OSS, and hostele

In-law of Drew Pearson.

Moore 18 a resident of Cleveland and at

one tina was affillited with the Middle last Company. He was nemar

contacted by sa because of hia erratic nature, and because of bla

marital connections. Moore 18 a flamboyant type who la willia8 to

try anythlag once or cuice.

The Middle East Company branch office

In Burkey uno referred to as a US intelligence operacion by che Soviato

several years ago, s0 they undoubtedly have a donater on Moore.

Aldo accorpanying Rand to Moscou vill be our old irlend George Booxbirder.

It vas De. Hosler a fira convletion that Rand has some 106

1a kha

ond whereby he will attempt to anuagle labota

Out of the USSR, during the course of briaging bio car sut of che area. „l

RAND

5 fing

---

## Page 2

14-00000

→ SECRET

2

I here fues recalved a lactor fron Dr. Hoster anylas chat

Rend, Moore, aod Boathloder will do lasrins for che USSR O0 & May

1960.. Too purposs of ible docification la to provida son varalas

chas an accidass may be on 8ta vey co bappen.

You siay use 1t la

ay may you aas fit, of courte protactsas our source.

1. Places una MDMI 100.

JUSTIN NO QUICHAR

5G: ст

cc: Chlaf, Detrost

Pield Office

& SECRET.

2/p0g

---

