# 104-10051-10152

## Page 1

104-10051-1015:

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRE /

Ruchiel, SRS

\ DC/SRS and C/ F101/ SRS

M. D. Stevens

PEREZ, Ralph

# 444 260

18 October 1967

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

1343-1055

MAR 1977

1. Vita reference to Ralph PEREZ, who le mentioned in

paragraph 2 of the attached memoranium on Richird S. CAIN

dated 9. October 1967, he would appear in all prob bility to be

subject who in the spring of 1963 becarse of interest to ICS (0O/C)

for routine exploitation as a source of forcign positive intelligence.

2. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-

substantiated report that. Subject subscribed to the Cormurist

publication 'VOZ de MEXICO" and wan a Communist leader in

1941. He reportodly was & leader of the Communist nuclous in

the Chicago Mesican colony. According to a notation dated 6/26/63,

this infornation was" considered resolved in Subject's favor through

1959 B.I. conductrd on Subject's sinter." DOS was also informed

that Subject's sister (Maria Guadalupe GALLARDO, with various

akas) was reported by reliable informants to have been a member

of the Mexican Commisaion of the Communiat Party in 1946 and a

card carrying Communist Party member in 1951. Daring an inter-

Viewin 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communist

Paxty and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930's in Chicago

but denied having ittonded Communist Farty aflairs sabseguent to 1945,

of tE ever having been a member of the Communiat Party.

3. Tith erference to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject

(PEREZ) is said to have given Horace SPEED III, 1199 499, as 2

lead, he may of may not be Guillermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:

Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, 4141260, a Sirican citizen who

in October 1956 was lasued an operational approval for use as a men

ber of the LIPSTICK Team in Mexico under unindicated cover.

approval was cancelled by "H/Ill in i memorandum dated 9 November

1957. There is no derogatory information in ESCOBAR's file and no

information on him since 195%.

'TECRET

GROUP

Excluded from ¿чlomatic.

dowagrading aint

declassic. is.

99992944-11

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

4 The only other GuillerIo ESCOBAR on whom there is

information in Security Indices lo an individual by that name listed

1a a 5 December 1949 report on The E'ourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter-

national. This Culllermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the

Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta de Chile, war listed as one of

the personalities in the Partido Obrero Revolucianayla, an sifiliated'

Chilean organization.

M. D. Steveng

Attachment: memo did 9 Oct 67

MDS/COT

SECRET

---

