# 104-10510-10114

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10510-10114

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10

DISPATCH

CLASSIICATION

SECRET

Chiet, Western Hemisphere Division

Pris

FROCESSING

MASOLD IRR IMPERINE

NO INDEXING RIQUIRRO

ONLY QUALITID

MCAPQIARIIES PESE

CAN MADE INDOXINO

RASTRACT

MICROFILM

ALCON

PUSHIN

FROM

Chiof of Station, JANAVE

SUBIC TY PIC/ANBUD/OPERATIONAL

ODISDOSItION Of ANUD Medical Cases

*A. UFGW-6352, 23 January 1967

B. UFGA-2616J, 20 October 1966

C. UFGA-26233,

28 October 1966

D. UFGA-26783, 19 January 1967

This report is forwarded as an interim reply to paragraph

three of Reference A

concerning utilization of State facilities

the AMBUD medienl cases requiring continued treatment. For Hend-

quarters information,

of the three remaining cases are now being

handled by local institutions-and similar arrangements for the third

are being investigated.

Following the death of Rigoberto PEREZ Cruz which was

reported by References

for Rolando POZO Greer as reported in Referenco D, the remaining

active medical cases consist of the following three Brigade 2506

individuals and one Garcia bines case:

THE MANDEZ Hermandez, Rav 1201 20010527

Subjoct 15 an Epileptic being treated as an out-patient

by the Dade County Department of Public Health Anti-

convulsive Clinic at no cost to JNWAVE.

The doctors forsee

no improvement and intend to continue attempts

to control

by medication.

JMWAVE continues to provide

Subject with a monthly payment of $225.00.

b.

oLINA QuIran", Jesus (201-264131 27

Subject 1s a mental case whose arrest in June 1961 for

attempted murder resulted in a Dade County court commitment

to South Florida State Hospital where he improved sufficiently

for release in November 1964 to Jackson Memorial Hospital

(a Dade County facility which handles welfare cases) for

out-patient care which continues to be provided at no cosi

to JAlAVE except minor cost

for drugs which totaled $35.00

19-134-25/15

Distribution:

13 - HII/COG

DATE TYFED

15 Feb 67

DiE 5'50 1963.

ES COPY

¡ CÃOSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATIN

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-26980

HEUZUURTUAS ALE NUMBER

19-124-25/6

19-124-25/5-3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"iN.

CONCIUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECKET

VYGN-26980

In 1966.

Subject receives a monthly payment of $250.00

frOm INWAVE

04

- 23

c .

SORTECA fernandes, Rarel 6201 209100%

Subject is a serlous mental case and the individual

who continues to be treated by a private psychiatrist;

Dr. Miguel A. Mora.

The cost of treatment by Dr. Nora

18

paid by JMWAVE

and at 525.00 per office visit the

monthly expense averages $225.00.

There have been no

recent charges for drugs.

Subject reccives a monthly payment

of $225.00 from

INWAVE and has successfully resisted

previous criorts to disassociate him from Dr. Mora.

d.

MARTINEZ Came.JO, Faustino (No record of 201):

Subject is a Garcia Lines case who suffors from advanced

glaucona and is nearly blind.

He continues to receive

periodic out-patient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital

for which JMWAVE pays the cost of treatment and drugs.

•Subsequent to the last surgery on 13 Soptember 1965 for

removal of cataracts,

there have begn ten charges for

treatment and/or drugs which total $95.00. Of

amount $62.00 was for seven items in 1966.

will be forwarded following

STAVE recommendations for disposition of the (onrol case

completion of the investigation

for treatment by

State facilittes as suggested in

fir

Bulan Elenza

Philip G. ELMARD

YeNN

"..' 530

USE RATIOUS EDITION.

CLASSILATION

SECRET

CONTINURO

PAGANO

2

F/IV

---

