# 104-10250-10032

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10250-10032

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE

SIRAT NINGET

2 NA:AE (Loss-Firs-Middle)

& RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Oniy

LEo Not Pep oduce

-290541

• NATURE OF PERSONNE! ASTON

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

7

L51

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

NO. CHARGEABLE

SEGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Complesed by Office of

Personnel)

E FLINDS

V TO V

CF TO V

V TO CF

CF TO CF

a CP-ANILATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

7235 04.0

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

LI! : FICTION

HASHINGOOT, D.C.

11 POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

COS QEFICER

(13)

1392

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. esc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

18. REMARKS

0134.01

13 €

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

$ 11,217

DOP/:1/C5 € DEV COEP/9997 03

i. NICES IS REPLACING LA [POSNER

WHO

BEING REASSIGNED.

- FIMMI.CE

1

- SECURITY

Date:

27 JUL 1955

Security Approvrl has been granted for

the use conemprecarby Inis request.

vil.

Chiel, Personnel

security Division

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

DATE SIGNED

3OЗORT D. CASHRAN C/CH/PERS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

CODE

CODE

22. STATION

23. INTEGREE

24. HDOTRS.

25. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE

CODE

CODE

MO.

DA.

YR.

28.

NIE EXPIRES

но.

DA.

TR.

OFFICE CODING

NUMERIC

ALPHABETIC

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

3-FICA

S- MONE

36.

SERV.

COMP.

DATE

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

мо.

DA.

YR.

MO.

DA.

YR.

26. DATE OF GRADE

но.

DA.

YR.

27.

мо.

DATE OF LEI

DA.

YR.

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

TYPE

мо.

DA.

YR.

33. SECURITY

REQ. MO.

34. SEX

EOD DATA

35.

VET.

PREFERENCE

CODE

O-MONE

1-5 P.

2-10 PT.

41.

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

CODE

O-HO PREVIOUS SERVICE

1-NO BREAK IN SERVICE

2-BREAX IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEARS)

3-BREAX IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS)

15. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

42. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

38.

CAREER CATEGORY

CAR/RESV

CODE

39.

CODE

PROV /TEMP

43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED

CODE

-YES

- MI

0- WAIVER

I - YES

FEGLI,/ HEALTH INSURANCE

HEALTH INS. CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

14.

FORM EXECUTED

1- YES

2-NO

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

TAX STATE CODE

EXEMP.

10. O.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

2-66

1152

USE FREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP

EXCLUDED FGOW.

AUTOMATIC

DOMHGRADING

AND DECLASSMICATION

---

## Page 2

14-00000

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE

*(Dast)

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

AUG 3

3 20 PH ' bÔ

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

TOFTARO COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Strees, City, State. Zip Code)

Items 1 thru ?

and

Items 9 thru 18a)

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru

18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the current

status of the employee unless specific items remain unchanged.

lienis - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Our

Temporary

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military

Temporary-Part Time .

Item 9 - "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization pertinent to ideptify-

ing the location of the position:

FIRST

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director. etc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Foreign Field or U.S. Field (if pertinent)

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Irems 11 and 15 - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated title and

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18-Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

the employee belongs. If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Serv-

ice should approve and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

Career Service official (s). In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only

will be sent see the Officers) concerned.

SECRET

---

