# 104-10069-10359

## Page 1

HAA

104-10069-10359

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 -

22642:

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHI

JUBJECT: (Optiora!)

Current address of Kaurice alperin

FROM:

Chief, Cortact Pivision (Support) Stuntz

TO: (Officer dosignation, room number, ans

DATE

beilding!

RECEIVED...

FORMAROTO

EXTENSION

2258

OFFICER'S

INTRALS

Do vage, say fany

- 8 27 0

3.

4.

5.

contact listen ped ting

7.

Livi

#H 729

131 DEC 52,1

MAGENTS (Mutate euch commort to shom from ur

nu a lino girass coluten after oach: comme.

I an gerding this to the follain

Trw

SR/CI

CI/ LN

Security

mago

10.

Eave wheit the

WH729=

12.

13.

14.

15.

PrEVIOUS

PBM 610 SETONS A SECRET

INTERNAL

USE: ONLY

- 720

UNCLASSIFIED

# 09254

---

## Page 2

14÷09000

SERRET

00143) 3.246:932

W SYRO_806

27 December 1962

¿Porestor & gamea

subject: Current Address of Murice Felperin

1.

A source of this office has just advisea us, unst ne received;

a Christmas card: (1962) from Maurice Helperin on which the return adan

WAB Elven BB: "Apt C-2, Celle 12, no 103, Mramer, Habens, Cube, The

only message on the card was one of Carletnas greetings. Helperin and

our source have: know each other for a number of years and they (alweys

exchange Christmas cards. Thig 1e the firet one Helperin has sent with

& Cuban address on 1t. The last time that our source saw Balpertn was.

In Moscow when he (the former) ras Viesting In the USSR during Auguet-

September 1961 as part of an official US delegation.:

2. In view of Halperin's past activities and associations, we are

making this information known to you!! Our source comments that Helperin

always seems to show up wherever there 1e some sort of activity going on.

*end-

CIA INTERNAL UNE

ONLY

SECRET

BH-729

---

