# 104-10126-10318

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10126-10318

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4028

rec'd 9/14/18

ASCA

OLC #78-4028/2

SUMMARY OF MR. HART'S PRESENTATION

I. Defection as a Psychological Phenomenon

Misinterpretation of Nosenko's reactions will

be covered within the context of failure to under-

stand the

stresses to which he was subjected as a

defector.

II.

1962 Contacts

Factors leading to an inaccurate record during

the 1962 meetings will be covered.

III. The Role of Mr. X

The influence of another defector -- to be

referred to only as Mr. X -- will be indicated as

resulting in misinterpretation of many of Nosenko's

statements.

IV. Confinement of Nosenko

Details of the confinement will be outlined as

they relate to possible misinterpretation of his

statements under questioning during the period up to

to Doss ionE inement

his being reassigned to the custody of the CIA Office

of Security.

The entire presentation will be about 30 pages in

length when reduced to final written form. Mr. Hart's

presentation will not specifically address the question

of Nosenko's statements regarding Lee Harvey Oswald.

Mr. Hart, in studying the Nosenko case, deliberately

disregarded the Oswald aspect of the case inasmuch

as it had by and large been handled by the FBI.

MI. Hart will argue that, inasmuch as Nosenko is

bona fide defector, his

statements regarding Lee Harvey

Oswald should be accepted as having been given in

good faith and to the best of his knowledge.

30453

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NAME

:

John Limond Hart

DATE OF BIRTH : 3 October 1920

CITIZENSHIP

:

U.S.A.

CIA CAREER

:

Approximately 24 years with CIA,

OTHER CIVILIAN

GOVT SERVICE

Special Assistant to Secretary o1

the Treasury for National Security,

1972 to 1973.

EXPERTISE ON

SOVIET DEFECTORS: Has written two extensive studies

of Soviet defectors, including in

on Nosenko. Has also had consideri

experience

with Soviet intclligence

and counterintelligence activitins

while serving in various capacities

in the United States and abroad.

RETIREMENT

:

Retired from U.S. Government in aid?

after 31 years

of combined mili..ry

and civilian service.

---

