# 104-10177-10221

## Page 1

104-10177-10221

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILL TOTLE/S NB8/001.0941.:

- 81-326K

FITE

INCLUSIVE INTES:

142-276

CUSTODIA. UNIT/LOCATION:

DATE

TATT

PECEIVED

RETURNED

54.9:928

TVILSED BY.

(PRINT NATE

STONATURE OFF

KEVIEWING OFFICIN

NO MUCUMENTS MAY ME COULD OR TOLD ERO THIS MI.:.

MATERIAL FLED A DANC:"

IS IN CHRONIC OCAL 04.5

201 No

---

## Page 2

. !.

---

## Page 3

CONSTONT SECRETI

SECKKE

inhen filled ini

23 tier 74

(duce)

Revich of 201 File on l.S. Clttzen

in accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have revlewe‹

the 201 file on

(surnane) (201 number Indicated below),

•and have determined that lt can nost. accurately be catezorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies,

affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. Ol Code A7.

Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Cole Al.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened:

OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).

DI Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or

security service).

OI Code AS.

All others. Of Code Ab.

signed Joom.

H. GICARDL

(name)

(title)

Tils assignment of category has been entered into StAR.

Signed

59580

(Initials)

This docuient is a permanent pärt of this file.

201--

CONFIDENTIAL

• SECRET

FRLSKA

(componenL;)

(date)

:33608

---

## Page 4

14-00000

nuu c: 1356 -

- S-50%

ger ESt 43-43

OFFICIAL

DISPATCH

3P

VIA:

AIR

AFACINT AIR ON BEA

DISPATCH

NO. 81554-3435

CLASSIFICATION

TO

FRÖM

: Chici; & Di

•Chies, Parts Station HAS

DATE: 8 Noverber 1249:

Subject 1s presently employed in Paris

He. Is well krown to

Douglas C. Haw and Eleanor I. HARreLL,

the forcer naving known hit

socially for a nunber of gears and the latter having dealt with him on

transportation problems sirce his appointment, fifteen months ago, to the

position he non occupies

2.

Subject is also

a long-time friend of UNCTED, who broight him

to our attention as a potential recruit and who has provided us with the

biographical information eontained in the attached personal record forma

No. 51-67.

30

Fron rhat I have been able to gather from UNMOVED, as vell as

from HARP and HARTiEIL,

subject appears to be the type or individual which

might be ideally suited to

fulfill certain valuable operational assigrm.ints

in 'France, such as "spotter" for other high-level potential agents, high-

level costacts,

cut-out, etc. All who know him agree that subject is capable

of "doing

anythire and getsire to know aryone" 1f he so chooses.

Apparertly.

süticoti, despite the "bräss" nich surrounds his perceptible personality, is

a serious-minded, Irtelligent and patriotic Individual who nas tad such ex-

perience alory lines which could be of use to this organization, as, mell as

an uncanny knack of beine able to introduce and ingratiate hinsell into prac-

tically any nilley of interest to his nork or wishos. A paral list of

suuject's fairly close friends, as reported by UNEVED on Page B-a of attach-

sent; shons the varlety of people subject knoxs and sees whenever they are

In this area. Undouttedly, subjoct hinself could add a much longer list of

nases to those reported herein, particularly nich respect to contacts in

purope.

40.

I an anured be twO/D that subface,

despitn his ability to

alke and keep mureros ans varied friendships,

1s tar fron being a "good

tibe Charlie";

•He la, on we other land, cie ot those characters mhow erery-.

one likes and tarts and to goes out of

sheir may is gor as often is occa-

elon permalls.

Univan arsares ra that sutjec;

201

Kcularls dood frien

Hit ail

•ES COPY

CLASSIFICATIEN

TASTRAGE

---

## Page 5

4-00000

771

- 2 DESER STITCO

UP FA-3489

C KAPOK-

In France at the present tines

5.

it is our thought that pork.

and in the cover-jol he nor occupiese

this Station and the organization asta

don of novezont outside France (usual,

ary milieu his assignenis might requir

180na40

antage ou

solute tree.

prectically

nintelit

gent, hard-working ani patriotic indiat

6o On a recent tour of inspection.og

circults

, assuredesubject.he rould endeavor

to secure for hin en additional allotment of tunds to supplement bis

present expense account budget.

Due to budgetary restrictions this has

not been possible and subject is at present seeking arother, more reuner-

ative position, since le claims that his present Incowe of approxinately

$666:00 monthly (including expense account) is Insüffluient to permit hin

to live in Parts and maintain the contacts and activity required by his

job. According to UNLOVED, subjoct is at present endeavorin: to secure

from his good friend

sales agency

Jeanhile, however, subject is

not contemplating resigning his position

until he has a firm and

more remiperative prsition.

UNSCVED states that subject plans to remain

it least antal the end of the year, by which time he may have

secured sonewling better. Subject has also harl talks with

(on his receni trip to France) concerning the possibility of handling the

agency here.

Nothing has come ci this possibility to date, but

subject appears to be hopeful.

UNLOVED is of the opinion that subject would be nost receptivo

to a proposition of doiro intelligence work and furthermore believes that

if subject could supplement his present income by an additional $200 or

5300 per sonth, he would be willing to remain with Tili, thich he likes

and is only considering leaviny due to his present lon total income,

of which is spent in connection with activities required by his positiou.

8: UMOVED has, of course, lever even hinted to subject anything

about his omn unde:cover activities and is sure subject does not suspect

that the forner is doing anything but his cover work in France.

when questioned as to his opinion concerning subject's potential value

as a covert agont, as tell as his rec-uitability, has pointed out very

strongly that subject, que to the very nature ci his personality; must

be given a good deal of operational fuidance and be closely controlled.

Questioned as to whecher sone other indivitual should endeavor to recruit

subject, UNaVED raj of tho opinion trat,

should the organization desire

to do so, he wouid be best fitted to exploit subject's posential, sance

CS EOP!

- COPY.

201-33609

---

## Page 6

14-00000

??!

WFTA-2059

- 3 .

he has known hin far a good aary years and as a close friend, knows nis

sirong and rest poini and couiù,

is gerian, intaile suujeci to bettsi

advantage tian another individual irho nighi have only occasioral contact

with hins

9.

Fe request that consideration in given to the advisability of

endeavorin, to recruit subject and,

in the ovent of a favorable decision,

that provisional operational clearnce de given in order

that subject may

be approached on the subject of enzaging in intelligence rori.

Tithi

regard to then should actually recruit subjech, te suegest that HE night

¡e would appreciate your reactions to the desirability of

recruiting suijeet, as nell as your thoughts as to hor best. exploit his.

obvious potential.

• Ilo Il subject's Ircruitability is approved in principle ari he

is given provisinnal securiti cleararce,

this Station would then prepare

a field project outline, to be subaitted to you for approval.

Dan & Surien

Dan 0. Garner

DOG: jres

Encl:

Personal Record Forr

Pistribution:

Files

---

## Page 7

3059072

709

MCVICKAR

Last Name

LEFA

3487

FORM NO.

51-67

Ja 1013

SECRET

Authorized Staft only

PERSONAL RECORD OF

John

First

Middie

Placo Photograph horo

1f available

=:..152

MOG 2? 1965

DATE 25 ectober 1910

SECPET

Asthorized Staff only

5:3.3428

---

## Page 8

14-00000

- 2 .

SECRET

Authorized Staif only

1. FULL ILSE, IN NORNAI, SEQUETICE.

Jobn Augustus HeVickar, Jr.

2.

VANE I NATIVE SCRIPT OR OTHER APPROPRIATE CHARACTERS.

3. HAME AT BIRTH (1f aifferent from ito. 1).

4.

5.

Sanse

ALL ALLISES (give brief statement of time und place of uso,:

(Include Nicknames - Legal Chargos.) •

sio aliases. Nickname. - "Johnny"

DATE AI PLACE OF BIRTE.

6.

NATIONALITY, ALSO RACE (if appropriate);

7.

UoSo

NATIONALITY AT BIRTE (if different from No. 6). INCLUDE li

NATIONALITIES FELD.

Sam as above

None

10. PRESET OCCUPATION (GIVe full titlo, Indication as to earntrza, ete.):

Special Sales Representalive for

---

## Page 9

3.

SECRET

Authorizer. Staff oily

11.

FATHER'S FULL NAME, NATIOIALITY AT BIRTH, PRESENT NATIONALITY,

PLACE OF BIRTH,

PRESENT RESIDaNCE.

Father was born in U.S. and has always held U.s. citizenship.

Formerly a

12.

MOTHER'S FULE NAME, NATIONALTTY AT BIRTH, PRESENT NATIONALITY,

PLACE: OF BIPTE, PRESENT RESIDENCE.

"aSo citizen at birth. Now deceased.

13.

14.

.15. NAMES OF BROTHERS/SISTERS, AGES, NATIONALITY, RESIDENCE,

111 U.S. citicens and all living in U.s.

SECRET

Authorized Staff anly

---

## Page 10

Authorizel Staif only

• •

16. IF SUBJECT, PARENTS, OR BUSBAND/WIFE NATURALIZED, GIVE DATE ANT

NAME IN' WHICH CERTIFICATS WAS GRANTED.

NoDe

17. LIST OFFICIAL IDENTITY PAPERS NEID DY SUBJECT.

18. GIVE POESENT AND/OR PAST OFFICIAL CONNECTION WITH AIY GOVERNMENE.

None

GIVE CONNECTIONS WITH ANY INTELIUSICE SERTICE, PIST OR PRESENT. HAS

SUBJECT EVER BEST A DOUBLE AGONI?.

EAS SUBJECT EVER BEEN CONSIDERE

THE TYPE OF AGENT WHO SAULS HIS INPORMATION TO THE EIGEST BIDDER?

EXPLAIN.

20.

RELIGION, AYD DEGREE PRACTICED. (Maberahip ir. Religioug Ordere.).

protestant.

Infrequent attendant a: church.

SEC.31

authorized Staff mily

---

## Page 11

SECRET

iutterized Stair only

?1.

FOLITICAL ORIENTATION. TO WEAT CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS, LABOR UNIONS,

PARTIES, OR JUCIRTIES HAS RE EELONGED?

Republicano Never a seaber of any club, organization, union,

part or society.

22.

SOCIAL STANDING (Ariatocracy, uppor aladle-clasa, lower middlo-claas,

poasantri, otc.).

UPPER MIDDLE

CLASS

23.

RECORD CE TRAVEL - OUTSIDE OF COUNTRY OF PRESENT PESIDENCE. (Under

Pirpose, 11st pertinent firue and poopls vialtod.)..

Country

Purpose of tile

Datos

France

British Isles

Ga. mary

Eoliano

1932 - 1939

Herray

Sweden

Dermark

The Test Indies

Brazil

.....

justralia

lier Guinea

1942 - 1912

Philippin Islands

SECRET

Authorizod Stafi ouly

---

## Page 12

6.

SECKET

Autherlied Start only

24. LOUCATION.

Name uf School

Course

'Degree

aares

25.

IVIDUAGES AND DIATECIS (inock proficiencs).

(a) Language

Good-Fair-Poor

.. " French

Good

pea

Good-IsIr-Poor

Goud

niereign

ood-Fair-Por

Good

(0)

ARE HIS LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHPRACTERISTICS SUCE

THAT HE COULI PASS RINSELE OFF AS A TITIVE TO i COUNTRY OR

REGION OTHER THAN HIS Frit

typical American appeararce and

amerises difficult to disguise

26. MILITARY SERVICE:

country,

engarization, Rork, nature of luty,

whero gorvice was forformed, when dischanged, why?

27. PRETENT OR PAST MEMBERSHIP DI FROLESSIOTN AND CHARITABLE SUCIETIES:

71 0D9

SECRET

Authorized Start only

---

## Page 13

Authorized Stait only

28. LIST STECIAL SITUS, HOBBIES AID ABILITIES. (Fa110, Protography, otc.).

sio hocures.

29. FINANCIAL STATUS: (Earnings, Bart Accourts, Securitiee, Froperty).

. -=

30. ENPLOMER EISTORY. (Includo tupe oi vort dore, dates, esplogere,.

ar.d addresses.)

SECRET

Autrerized Star? only

---

## Page 14

8.

SECRET

Authorised Starr olg

31. DESCRIPTICH (UBe Azariuan Staniardo n§ Dostirebert).

FOSTURE

LEIGHT

SCARS

Erect

133 lbs.

soo - even

ärom - thick

160583

mick set

BEIGET :

5°100

ETaS

drey

FACE-SHAPE

Round

CONPLEXION. Fair

SET

Hale

GENPAI APPEARANCE

PROMINENT FEATURES NODe

DISTICUPOENTS NOcO.

PERSONAL HABIT'S VorTal

ATY TRATTS WEICH DISTITGUISE FROM OTEERS EAVING

SAVE GAPPAL DESCRISTION.

NC

32.

HAS SUBJECE DONE ALlY WRITING?

GIVS IETAILS.

None

33. WAS HE EVER A PRISONER OF WAR? GIVE DETAILS.

No.

34. WEII WIAT FEUPLE OR GROUPS DOES FE MOST OFTE ASSOCIATE? (List several) .

most of whos are friends of long standing.

contacts include persons of high social position and leaders

In business and intustry. This has been brought about partly-by the nature

•of his work

(See Fage Ja PoT a Limlied Ilet of persons with uton subject associatos)

Authorized staff anly

---

## Page 15

30.

SECRET

7

SECRET

Authorized Staff only :

3.3605

---

## Page 16

400000

---

## Page 17

SEThaT

Authoriad Start only

35.

IS EL IS COFRESPOIDEICE NITE PERSONS OR FIRAS JUISIDE COSTAY CE

RESON PESINETiCE?

(Il 8o, llati.

PRASUMABLY WITH

FAMIAY

SUBJECT

ONLY

BE

tORy Pock

36.

EAS EE EVER BEER SENTENCED BY A COURT? - (WEEN, BY WHAT COUKT,

FINTOTTECT, PUNISEMETI. GIVE REÇORD OF ARRESTS AID AEQUITTAES.:

Sever

37. IT APPLICABLE, GIVE INFORMATION ON DETAZIFICATION - WUPTHER

OFFLIEDO, FROPOSED, OR REGUSED.

38. ECH WAS BE FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED?.

FRIEND.OF

SYDNEY

P. GRASER

39. COTTO SUSJEDI BE TURIED OVER TO SOMEONE FISE FOR HANDLING QUICKLY

AD DE A SECRE. MANNER:

YES

40. ¡ENI IS TEE BEST. ESTIMATE AS TO SURJECI'S MOTIVATION?

NOT YET ArPRUdiNED..

SECRET

Authorizod

Stairs oriy

CORRESPONDENT.

---

## Page 18

19.

intiorized Staff only

WITH WEAI AGECIES AND FILES FAS SUBJECT'S NAME BEEN CHECKED? WEETY?

FEAT ELSE EAS BERN DONE IC TONIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED

BY SUBJECT?

TO BE CLEARED

Вх. нФ.

PROVISIONAL

CLEARANCE

KLQNESTED,

42. ARE TEBRE ATY FACTORS WHICE CONIRIBUTE TO OUR CONTROL, OF SUBJECT?

NONE

-AT. PRESENT

43.

hi.

DOES SUBJECT KHOW FOP WHAT SERVICE HE IS WORKING OR DOES EE KNCH

IZE DESI LIATION OF HIS INFORMATION?

NIT

yer

RECRUITED

I POSSIBLE, ATTACH A SAMPLE OF SUBJECT'S HANDWRITING TOGETHER

STIE SIGATURE.

WilLi BE SUPpLIEd..LATER.

45.

IS SURJECT (SOF exaMple) WELL;-HIFCRMED AND INTELLIGENT

LIPORMED BUT SEREND

__; NOT VERY BRIGET_

аб.

EON DO YOU EVALUATE, IIS CHATLICTER, RELIABILITY, SELURITY?

TO BE SUPPLIED LATEK

PIKOVIDED

SECRET

juthorized Staff only

---

## Page 19

11.

SECRET

Authorised Ster?'anly

4?.

WHAT TIPE OF IIFORMATION ZAS RE FURNISEED AND WHAT TYPE IS HS

EXPECTIN TO FURNISH IN THE FUTURE? GIVE AN EVALUATION OF INFUR-

MATICH RECEIVED.

JUSTEIT

IS IDEALLY SUITEN

WHICH. UKINGS

INTO

FJTENTINL

ARENTS AND

CONTAIT

• coutie

WITN MANY

CONTACIS.

48.

IF SUBJECT'S DUTIES ARE OTHER THAY INTETLICENCE GATHERING, SO

INDICATE:

SUBTELT WOUL;

PERHAPS

RECRUITER.

"SPOTT6E" AND

49.

HAS ILE BEEN CIVEN SPECIAT, TRAINING AS AGENT? IF SO, DESCRIBE THE

TRAINING.

SECURITY GLEARED WILL DE. TERINED

IN

PARIS.

50:

IS SURJECT INTECRATED WITH ANY OTHER OPSRACIONS?

NOT

YET. RECRUITED.

51. DO ME KNOW GENERALLY BO AID FROM WHOM HE OBTAINS INPORMATIONS

NOT

YET, APNiICABLE.

IS HE PAID A REGULAR SALARY BY US?_ AMOUNT: —

KALOMMEND

RETAINET

$200 ANO $ 300 MONTLY.

TRAINING AND. BAFFING PERIOD.

RECÖMMENDED DURING

53.

HAVE ANY UNFULFILLED PROMISES BEEN MADE TO HIM?

YET

APPLILABLE:

Authorlead Stars anly

761-334608

---

## Page 20

• ді

12.

SECRET

Authorized Staff only

SEVATES: (MI ESSAY FORM, MARE ANY COMMENTS ON FACTORS CMITTES VEICH

ARE LETHRO BY THE CASE OFFICER TO RE FERTITAVI TO THE INDI:LIAL AND

I'EL PERSIAL RECORD. ADDENDA SHOULD BE MADE TO THIS FOPM. FROM TIME

SEE CONGreNCE

LETTER.

SUBMITTED BY SYDNEY

P.. GLASER

ST UF.ET

Aurorized Seaft only

---

## Page 21

4-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

DISPATCH NO. AFF!.SILY.

TO

Chies, FIN

DATE: I5 Decerder 1949

FROM

Ch10s, Parla Statson At

SUBJECT: GeNERAL. JOhn AugUStuS ACTICHAR, J5. 20/ - 33608

PARI-421y

We regret that circusstances beyond our control prompted us to

dispatch PARI-421), on the off chance that subject might he of suffivient

interest to you as a potential candidate for recruitment, thus bringing to

A heari a question which normally rould have followed its course throuch the

motor that a case suche ete a dese leged restratio de so the

fact that unless some quick action 1s taken, Subject will definitely leave his

and seat employment elserhere.

On 10 Dacender, Subject had luncheon with BiRF and unloaded all his

financial troubles. In a

casual tay HARE asked him in by any chance he mould

he willing to stay on

1l his salary were supplementede

subject took

this rossiblity, since it is well-known that Subject likes his

job and desires vur much to remin, but is resigning revely or financial

in consultation wier thereD and thats, both

of whon kner Subject

mell, it is arnerent that probably 2300 conchly mould allon Subject to decide

provided te are sufficlently interested in recriting hin

for intelligence activitias.

3.

attached hereto 1s erwears latest morors on Subject, dated 8 Deceite

cer, and

prepared prtor to laib's luncheon nich subject.

There

speas to be

sone quostion as ic whether Subtect has actually subaitted his rsignation to

in Tritina.

According

In

event,

to curren, he has, mherras Subject denied this to

Ras.

ary

it is

veil known in Paris that Subject is tiking termiral

jeave at presene, prior to lenzing

lie de now amalt jour renation as to mother you feel the dr paircipio

WCTICEAR. is morch recruitingo

it is too carly, not having had srecific ind

detailed talla rita deViCia, in subait a project outline, but all tire are

macis in all countrles ol basteen tarosco

Dacl: 1

Tile

(QI

ABSTRACT

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 22

& Docembor, 1969

Subjoot: NevIckA?, Joie: AuGures J.

Subjoot is quittin, his positio

as of 31 Dosarbor, 1949.

in august, 1949, aubject advised hia aueriore, including

and a porsonal friend, that io could

nos continuo unloas a largor calary and a sore libera! expenso account more furth-

coninzü. Ho was informed in dus courao by Vico President

that, it mas Impossible

for uno coluany to givo his soro noney within tho present hajo stratura.

therefor docidod to saek other eeplosion no could proceed to cake new arrangemente

On of about 15 loverber oubject was

•as of the and of the joar.

advisod by Ovorsins lanagor Mother ruüjoct actus!ly resigned or vas aakod to

torninate lie connsation due to his repoated asands jor soro soney 1s not completely

oloar to the triter.

Oversoes Fanager

was nover sumathetic with the subloct. According to

ras joaloua of

subject's popuiarity. On the other nand,

has told the writer that subject in the

company"s nast veliable esploye overseao.

concura in that belief.

Subject 18 highly rogardod buL

•In addition he lo a clono friend of

chairman co the Board, who engagod him

alrectly in she first place.

lione of those, however, seen willinz to run counter to

the economy drive now in progress within

sponsored by new President

Ileas thoro is a last sinute change in poilay ausjoct's terrination will stand.

l' makes fraquort busineso tripo to Eurone on behale of hia

om company which donia in spare part

Ho has intirated that ho

night use subjoot in Europe for ali to eight monthe and then bring hit back to the

Vose for employrent, in rashington.

definita offor but has advisod him in a letter soon by the mitor not to vorry about

his future.

We! t Mirl 3e24 IS COPY

120r-536013

---

## Page 23

?

Subjoct: ISTIURA?, JOIDi MUOISTIS IR. (continuad)

che walter that tie nord?=

per ded la cino de loi e le errore hare ricon caray

suojest nas told

calary and esperda accolait

cozdirod, in cador to 11%s ln Farlo and do a docont 1ob.

CS

COPY

26: - 33005

---

## Page 24

AF

00420

38.0

OUTODINO CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PAGE No

To:

PARIS

FROx:

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

COMPIRMATIOFDE (9-2)

ROUTINE

15 DEC 49

OUT. 95459

IMPORMATIO"ADSO (5-41, STE: (5), 110 (6), STD 173

Paraphrao Nol Rogulradi Elandle as SECRET Corre; pondonce per Para, 51 (1) 601 1R-S80-S

WASH 5310

TO: PAP.IF

RE: PARI 4214/113..

• '58)

CITE: WASHF

ALTHO

SUBJECT SOUNDED GOOD IN PRINCIPLE WE UNABLE APPROVE

REF PROPOSAL AT

THIS TIME FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:

FRIOR COMIPLETION PRELIM FOUR WAY CHECK PROVISIONAL

CLEARANCE UNSTAINABLE.

EVEN IF CLEARED AND DEFINITE TARBET IN MIND,

CONSIDERED

EXCESSIVE FOR U:TRIED,

UNTRAINED (ALTHO WELL PLACED)

INDIVICUAL CO!PARED OTHER STARTERS.

AS RESIGNATION APPEARS FAIT ACCOMPLI WE DO NOT CONSIDER IT

ADVISABLE ATTENPT PERSUADE SUBJECT RETÄIN PHESENT POST TIEREBY

INCURRING HEAVY MORAL OBLIBATION SUPPORT HIM FOR INDEFIHITE PERIOD

IN FUTURE.

NEW COVER SHOULD STILL GIVE SUBUECT LATITUDE OUR WORK IF HF

REMAINS

IN EUROPE.

WILL SUBMIT

RESULTS CHECK AND REQUEST YOU FORIAULATE

NEW PROPOSAL ÖN CASIS NEI COVER WHEN WE WILL REEXAVINE AND ADVISE,

ATL RISING ONCIA

TOD:

02452

N 2133608

3. He LElUNGTON

ORICINATITE ATD CDORDISATISE OTTICERS

AUTHEYTICATING OTRICIA

SECRET

corr sa !

15, H8ES FORBIDDEN TO MAXE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---

## Page 25

Hit.

:**7

39-9

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PACE No.

FROM:

PARIS

To: ..

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

ACTION:

FDM (1-2)

ISTORMATOSOSO (3-4), STA 15), STB (F), 1ID 87)

ROUTINE

11 DEC 48

IN 11158

Paraphrase Nor Reguired, Handle as SECRET Currespondence per Para, 51 (1) 661 1P-930-5

PARI 1;214

TO: WASHF

CITE:: PARIF

1:

UNMOVED REPORTS SUBJECT WIFPA 3489 RESIGNED

1 JAN.

EFFECTIVE

2. SUBJECT APFEARS OPTIMISTIC RE POSSIBILITY SEGURING WORK

1F

CONTACT MATERIALIZES SUBJECT WOULD RELAIN

SIX OR SIGH: MONTHS, THEN RETURN STATES TO WORX

PARIS

, POSSIBLY

• IN BASH.

3.

AT LUNCHEON WITH HARE 10 DEC SUBJECT TOLD HARE ALL HIS

FINANCIAL TROUBLES AND INDICATED WILLINGNESS REMAIN

IF INCONIE

COULD BE SUPPLEMENTED.

UNG'OVED CONCURS WITH THIS. SUBJECT STATED

(RCVD DEHXEB) TO HARE NE HAD ACTUALLY RESIGNED

STATING HE

NOW TAKING TERMINAL LEAVE PRIOR TO RESIGNATION.

IN VIEW DEVELOPHENTS ABOVE ME FEEL DECISION ONE

WAY OR OTHER OUR

PROVISIONIAL OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE ANO YOUR

THEREFORE REQUEST

BE OUR PET MUST BE MADE SOONESE AUTHORITY APPADACH SUBUERT

IN PRINCIPLE, OFFERING SALARY $300 MONTHLY, SUBJECT TO FINNI. SECURITY

COVER JOB AT LEAST UNTIL WE MAKE FINAL DECISION.

• THIS IN ORDER PERSUADE SUBJECT REMAIN WITH SDEAL

COVER JOB

5. TILE, IN THIS CASE, IS OF THE ESSENCE:

33608

.. id 201-

TOR: 1211Z 11 DEC 43

SECRET

CoPy dia

IT IS FORDIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---

## Page 26

57Pi-Sizi

Chiol di Statloo, ParLo

2986501h05 2949

il biché e

Eubject nf 88rD-3489

spaRTa lo hiTe, so you rugeoco, seny faceta mirth esploselar.

Io irpeci inle prallalnoty lourny ehset to take at laast sis

socia to coaplare sod in tha sestina suulá epcrociate a farther

11st of entfoetra coxbicté, skatured brlafly et the hostsa of

pagO Ba of Dia partonal recond fario.

Lince operAtional clearauso

la given only for a speciito parpose, me clao requcas ubaovet's

prOLIAlIATy toRE a expl-liatlos.

EMDj00t parSOnEl reCUTÓ fOrE (SA sOlI EU Uist subaltted

alch eres tüg Incilltstes

trachirà al lisia end.

¡#NOTED suid te congrIculatod os ilo

palistaking roporting in talo netist.

to бо дукєії

33608

---

## Page 27

ai"àn à

TRANSMITTAL SLIP..

FEE = 3 1950

OULONG E T-D - The Bredy

REMRNS For your files

Mis Thompar

Please

oipe

2028

wsluet to FDW

THB

FROM:

BUILDING

Sonne

ROOM NO.

EXTENSION

---

## Page 28

SECREI

FRON:

arricar cosignalions

casaent nundarod lo corrargono dila ene ruador la lao "lo os luan,

faen offlear esours ioleta.

Ichock aort incollicrono doloro tureso, roup.aga

¡sla docord and Rouiing shoot arouro do coturnod lo dogiarey.

i80.

IFFA-tiLY

DATE

TO

FD-W

ROOM

NO:

20J6

DATE

REC'O

2026 21

OFFICER'S

INS TIALS

е

OMHENTS

This is habitar - ters

coisa, isen she?

Dripped e semi5 hir.

decalled.

duck) sehus aed tr eSc -

No fertter c beito pater de -

quied.

MVISKAR, JUMM AuseTas Ja

(201

ABSTRACT

X INDEX

201-33608

T07t50

Oso estiry

25141

FORM

но.

1018

SECRET

---

## Page 29

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:-

arCIRY AIR CA DEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. REPA- iel14

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

10 February 1950......

Chief, F3:

FROM

: Chief, Paris Station

SUBJECT: ORNERAL- TOFPA-3724; "pEti 5370

SPECIFIC-

UNasD has just informed m that subjent has definitely docided

not to roturn to paris and is nor stayir at the Hotel Stanhope on 5th Avea,

UNLOrD further assures in ther cubicet is definitoly un employe?

for the moment and is desperately loskine for suitable empirmont.

2.

Apparently Subject las don able to borron a considerablo amount

of money, he having sent is his ifo who marained behind in Paris a suffi-

ciant amoun's of dollars to cover local desis in French Francs which Subject

had accrued at the varlous faris hotels, airs, nightclubs, etc.

Sibject's

wire is at present liquidatig all those

the

datis, closing up and raturning to

owner tne apartment in mich they liveà sad plans to depart, for New Tork

to rejoin her husband mithin a fen dayse

3.

Unovy hi; also assured ne that Sibject is very anxious to return

to Furopo ará, if possicle, faris.

UNciEs has -aintained his contacts with

ottier high

pfricials in Faris,

the have told hin that they are "lost with-

out "Subject, and mould bo very alad to see tia cack in Faris.

It also

SEEmS

apparent that Subject left

under favorable circanstanços and mould be

willing to return (and they neuld accept hir) provided his financial situation

era

satisfactorily settled.

IS Subject st1ll intorests you, I suggest you endeavor to contect

him at his hool l1 Nor York.

DOG : Jars

Dan D. Serwar

Jia'ner

Districation:

FB!

file

REGISTRY COPY

CLASSIFICATION

AS COPY

20i-33408

---

## Page 30

INSTRUCTIORS:

across shoot and

(chort

FROM:

CSO

0191800

SECHEL

FOUTINS AND RECORD SHEET,

abduldle ined ln the "lo" cdiem. dador doct onore a lino arould be dison

AponA sitA tha nuaDor

dach oftlear should talelal

Ay a 100r

TA! I ROCOra

and doutlad innot should do caturned to Raglarry.

30.

HOON

но.

BY HAND

DATE

OFFICER'S

FRO'0

INITIALS

OMMENTS

ww

RIC'O

1226

CSO

23 7et. z0s-

pinter trestigation inglured

WMICROFILMEO

JUL 2Q 1956

o8o Reall

AT 1 1S50 /10

M.l. D.

FORD

81.10

TiMB

SECRET

---

## Page 31

SECRET

Office Menorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ГОні.

DATB:

• 463)

FROM

, jesearch Branch, luü sialf

SUBJECT:

dchr algustas

140104

In accordance with your request, a covert name check was

conducted on the above named Suuject. The results are attached.

.. A roziew of the infornation furnished as a basis for this

name check indicates that active covert inquiry and/or searches

of other publie and quasi-public recurds should be productive.

However, in view of the limited nature of your request, no effort

to develop such information has been made.

The attacked data simply represents the results of inquiry

at the desipnated U. S. Government ageacles. Should indepeadent

domestie inquiries be required. under che provisiong o? the

Director's merorandun dated 14 February 1949, entitled "Security

and Operations: Clesrances", me nould be pleasad to conduct

them and furnish tbe results to you as prompily as possible.

FOR THE CHIEF OR ENSPECTIR ANO SEBURITY:

Attachment

Lamö check date

; = Exel.

MAR 1988 39-206

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Stare 6/050 AitonI Ms. Scazos

TO

'Rossarah Eranor, las Stars

DATE:

FROM 'NOVICKAR, J5., John Augustus

:1.950

SUBJECT, 840104

In accordance with your sepsest, a covert nine chesi was

conducted on the above named Sutjert. The results sre attached.

A reviem of the information furnished as a basis for this

name enock indicates that active covert inquiry and/or searches

of other publie and quaal-publie recorda should be productive.

However, In view of the limited sature of your request, no effort

to davelop such information has teen made.

The attached data simply represeuts the results of inquiry

at the designated 'J.

S. Governmes: agencies.

Should independent

domestic

inquiries be required, lader the provisions

of the

Director's memorandum dated I4 February 1949, entitied "Security

anu Operational Clearances", we would be pleased to conduct

then and furnish the results to you as promptly as

possible.

FOR THE CHIEF OF INSPECTION AND SECURITY:

FOBERT R. CUNNINGHAN

Attartinehgot date

.

FOrM

МАЯ

1985

39-108

SEGRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

¿in di cronis

iNo t010s

mere cresa din certe

23 Deecru6r 1919, 1ù nas deterind Dint Mitre Mes no sicurd a!

magee: in tir files di

L-5.

confidential joternaon 4.909 Lal rogo ura do record al Subjcet.

un edwar

1900.

Mi dairy 1960, e regreserture of donarential dorcruent

peur conducted

20 Jroubro 19191 15 0n5 deterdard Giü Danno vas no record or

Che mustor ladea of 6o Città Obardo Giril derrice Sacrission mus

checad in

1800, tri cicords of lae insicure difilon, su erbaus

r-ri

dalland, creto cercaton

dirlines.

.....?.

1O CHI DES ORIO

ada fa property al li

reside?

a?

Cron APRO Da 2020.

ine and resided in irater

lis bogation dotto de salto tresuire.

Buejene roy'stored at hustoria, Lecherà Ela an E.oterder 1917a ie

Acariora mitte ed Airlinoso

casari das pubened cordo deltà do buriso trance do a itender 10÷ô.

salçus restare ai

dinartt dürect,

resuire, Long isiado criterio do dimidine di perdenditore, dil Regituented

i?.m..

SECRET

pesi: 1944-4635-1

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

=....

... ¿a:

--jiis

135. 1013:

¿? auElret sid tis cier CrrC eEla 19196

Is dras

Eerried ao saule ieie ho abeseeria.a

_itiã.

scased

wat subjcet.

d:.?:.

SECRET

---

## Page 35

LASTRUCTIONS:

aerona sapaliano doce

Offlçar

FROM:

SECREI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

7 t

eber routlag.

TD::

«cluon. .Undar ança cossens a lino

lach

offlear

a and Raiting Shoot shoulo do

returnod to

Raglatey.

inc.

BẠTE

FDT/Schlatter

ROOM

NO:.

23 Mar 49

CONHE: TS

DATE

REC'O "

F00°0

OFFICER'S

1JI TI ALS

231n/ 15 as.

CSO

22 NOV!

car. n.V

Des Dir 145.

19:

Pascal le cal

160.

81.10

400. 1009

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

23 Hovember 1949

WHORE DUN

. CSO

SUBJECT!

Request for liare Check

MeTICKAR, John Augustus, Jre

Nicknase':

"Johmy"

Prosent Addresa:

Date and Place of Birth:

Citizenships U. S.

Relativess

Patter

Hother - J.S. citison at birth; now daceased

Brothers-

Sister -

Daughte:

Educational Blokground,

SECRET

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET

•2."

Progent Employments

Spociel Sales Representativo

in Parlo

Provicus Beployment,

Motor. Car, the le Baron Lotor Car. (at aço 18) i

Green sational,

Pinanciai;

Or eat tenor of any club, organitation, unton, party

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

Referorouss

Subjoot hólda Do.8. Passpors

SEC

RET

---

## Page 39

SECRET

29 NOTONDOF ID49

HERE PARDON

808

fires

SUBJDCIA Request for Mazo Ci ask

Kazos

MOVICKAR, Joha Auguet 18, J5o

ionass, "Johmy"

Prosest Addrosas

Fato and Place of Birthi

Citisonahips D. S.

Relativgar

Fathor.

Nothor - U.S. oltlian at birth, now dochaund

Brothart -

Daughtor -

Bducational Brokerouad:

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECRET

Prosant l'aployzonte

Spoolal Salos sopresentati to

1n Parla

Frotous Employsente.

Conoral falor Aport li Pranco for various Miorioas produata;

Inoludizig Jantson Sathiug Suita, Throo-la-Una Ult, Cho Frankila

Motor car, the Lo Baron Motor Car. (at aço i8)

Organisationes

Howor o

or soaloty.

P1 nanatal i

SECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

subfoot holda U. 8. Passport

SECRET

---

## Page 42

4-00000

28 lovenber 1940

208

FRISIE

FIA

SUBJECT.

Request Yor June Chect.

danas

HCVICKAR, John Augustus, Jr.

Monares "Sohimy"

Presont Addruses

Date and Place of Brth!

Balativoa! Father

Nother - 1l'S. oftlien at birthi now dochaand

Brothere

Sister -

11180-1

Daughtor .

Educational Baoke rounds

---

## Page 43

4-00000

SECRET

Prosent Eeployaonte

Spaolai dalos Ropresentativo

sn Parlo

Protlour Biplomont:

Canoral talos Agont in frasco sor pirious Laarican prodiato

Ineludeng dantion Bathiag Sultà, 5hioa-in-Uno 011, tho Franklia

•Motor Car, tha la DATOn lotor Car. (at Ago 18)

Oricant zatione:

Hover a sambor of any club, orgerisation, union. party

or soslaty.

Pisanotale

SECRET

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SECRFT

• $

Roforonoose

• subjoot bolda U. 8. raasport

BURGT

---

