# 104-10210-10017

## Page 1

0000

104-102 10-10017 i 2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

09G:

T.

Rjan.

C/ SB/C1/K

6991

26 March 1968

M$885,t 13010

Ters

SECRET

08T7.

14049

6.07105

11 saesa

1110:06008

1HF0:

p82.00118

SB8

XI RID COPY

. Va

Thit

773 1 110

rec!

117.

Er8, calops 5..

¡relerence rumier)

CITE DIRECTOR

8,6405

SECRET

BERN INFO GENEVA

REDTOP LCIMPROVE AEDONOR

REP: BERN 2340 (IN 77131)

AEDONOR REPORTS MENTIONED REF NOT PERTINENT TO ANY

SWISS LIAISON INTERESTS, BUT SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE PLS

FORWARD AND WE WILL MAKE APPROPRIATE REPLY.

END OF MESSAGE

LACIEUR/SOV

•BILEASINO OFFICER

COONSINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

Cartarded fri to autora

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHE:HICATING

OFFICER

coir sa

---

## Page 2

•ESSAGE

SECRET

110. 0000 A51 p4012

(Whate filled Ir)

FIPOCOUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

AGVANCE CODE

ISSUED

2.

10

7.

DISSEM BI

ACTION

CIASSIFY TO FILE NO_

I-DIE TO FILE NO —

FRENS DOET TO

S68

BRANCHO:

EURE DOP ADAP. CI. ClOPS FI

FILINTe CAS. CAPROI

SEDGE T 2GICLE MAR DE CITE BERN 2340

DIRECTOR JAFO GENEVA .

25MR03477131

REDTOP

1. SWiSS FRESS 25 MARCH CARRIES ACCOUNT SATURDAY

EVENING FEST STORY BY DAVIS MISE IN WHICH ME CITES NOSENKO

AS SOURCE SOME REFORTS ON SHALE USED BY WARREN COMMISSION.

WISE HAS ALLEGEDLY SEEN THESE REPORTS.

2. THIS FIRST PUBLIC MENTION NOSENKO FOR SOME TIME AND

IS LIKELY CAUSE LIAISON QUESTIONS. PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

:..7

58/01/15

Here and There

More on Oswald Case

tokurms classified tran-eriple on Warren

C.emnss10n 1055115 disclosed that Law Harvey

Ordaid loja such 37

"extremely pour shot" dur

ne his shas an Rubia in 1919 that hunting cron

BaRuns had lo gie him game. The Compassion

maribed thes dala frio duri loanorich Vaiento

§ furian sorel palice agent wine difected in the

t's three

months after the

a-sas tilation of

Presideni kennedy. according 1o an article br

Rarid Wive in the current inue of the Saturday

Cresing Puit. The same anale sad the Commis

sire ined bus failed to see siial aulopss phour

taphs to ciardy "runiusing" eridence about the

babis which struck the Presideni.

An elfurt to restore the Balumore trine of

A la Mencken jo being dramn up as Denne Nex

s, an employe of the Siale Pianning Deperiment

Eal a tan ná sbe famed journalist.

UPI spare writer Edward K. Drlong sid in

deo Orlezes l lij. may launco a inassive

space bud-up from "sheer frigh:" if the Susie:

l'sis suenasiull arbeis: a marced spara pise.

lorza in 1953

enuca"..

---

