# 104-10070-10079

## Page 1

AAAAC

104-10070-10079

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

то

DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force W

КАТОМ

PROCÊSSINO

ЛОТКОМ

MARXED FOR MIDEXAT

но INOSHA! панно

ONLY QUALIFICO

INDEXING

achief of Station, JMWAVE

ака

superational/GYROSE

(Persias and Analysia of AMFAUlA Aparation

MAQUIRNO, REFOREMON

MAD

1905

Action Required:

Traces on AMFAUNAS 2

POAS

AMFAUNAS

through 23,

identifIed

cht E.

4, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19.

-Ascertain whether AMFAUNA-3 is of operational interest to

ODIBEX (sAs paragraph 15b).

3. • Forward evaluations of documentary intelligence provided by

AMFAUNA-4 (see paragraph 56).

Summary

AMFAUNA-1 is à Cuban national who was

recruited and trained in

the United States and returned legally to Cubalin March 1961 to serve as

resident agent in Havana. Since then he has built a

net of over twenty

sub agents and has-sent back 140 S/W messages, from which upwards of

fifty intelligence disseminations have been made.

He is highly

motivated for his work and under effective control by JMwavE.

The

quality of his production is, for the most part, very good and improving.

although'he is at times distracted by an understandable interest in

para-military operations. Operationally he is very skillful; however,

he has been known to take unnecessary risks.

There is no reason to

think that he is under hostile control nor

that the operation is likely

in the future to be turned against us.

there as,- however, the read

risk that he may one day fall into a G-2 trap banted with the Escambray

guerrillas. If so, this will be due to the fact that contact with the

guerrillas was his

first assignment and, although he has been re-

to intelligence collection, he sometimes seems to feel that

he has failed in his primary mission.

This, plus the fact that he

evident

believes that the end is now very

close, is apt to make him.

vulner

e to an appeal from the "heroes of the Escamp

•Present Status of the Operation - Modus Operandi:

5. There is considerable evidence that AMFAUNA-1 is extraordinarily

Attachments: A-D, InclaM

Charts A,B,C,D h/wEd

'attachin

CS COPY

Attch: = - Identities @cLAMFAUNAS_2-23)

Pattch. I - Identities.

'CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

11 July 1962

ASPATCH MMBOL ANO MURABE

attached.

IOH12+3NA00

Distribution:

att. 4Ü5N

23-Headquartersild Sofarra

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

UFGA-4703

ARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-6-50/3

201-291230

24

24

the ZisioN

APERTURE CARD REPRODUC

ПОЖЕ

$ 8904

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•CLASSIFIONTION

DIETATON OVIANIA ASD IAAAI3A

CONTINUATION OF

SISPATCH

S EDCRET

UFGA-4708.

skillful in the praction of security. He has built a false identity

which he usas wherevar possible in his operational contaote, he 10

unually selectiva and cautious in his choice of collaboratore, he

takes pains to check on the security of his sub-agents, and he uses

a synten of autouta for much of his work.

Some lof AMFAUNA-l's older collaborators know him by true name,

but wherever paralble he introduces himselt to new contaots by the

"ROJON o/Evidently he lo now living the part-of Jullo? /

ROJO to such an extent that he has in effect a double identity.

one of his S/W messages he asked that the widow of AMCUSP-l be warned

not to reveal that "Jullo" is in Cuba.

Since AMFAUNA-1 ia in Cuba

logally, and all his family land friends know it, this can only naan

that she should not reveal that AMFAUNA-I and ("Julio ROJO")erso

identical.

1 In recruiting

sub-agents, AMFAUNA-1 relies primarily on hio

own judgment and intuition.

1í he approvas of a person, he wili

recruit hin.

"However, he has shown himself to be very cautious in

granting his approval.

He has reported two persons whom he does not.

completely trust because, while otherwise well qualified, they drink.

too much and are indiscreet.

two other examples, AMBOA-l and

LITAU-5 approached him separately and revealed their

relationship with

KUBARK, hoping to collaborate with him; AMFAUNA-l treated then both

with reserve while he checked them out with JMWAvE.

He has submitted. 4

the names of other contacts for checking.

In the case of AMFAUNA-4, f6

whom he recruited without prior checking because time did not permit

it, he put his misgivings in writing:

"Right away AMFAUNA-1 arranged

Once he has recruited a

sub-agent, AMFAUNA-1 manages to keep

an independent eye on the former's security.

On more than one occasion

"he has reported that one of his

sub-agents is under G-? surveillance,

and that for the time being he is staying away from him.

In general AMFAUNA-1 seems to trust in the efficiency of his

security precautions.

On 25 February 1962 he reported that Identity

compartmented fron hef.

AMANA 5, uho maintain contact for AMPAUNA-1 with most in

not all of

Chart A, which shows AMFAUNA-1 in direct contact with

AMFAUNAs Y through 13, may be in error on this point:

It would be

more in keeping with AMFAUNA-l's known modus operandi for him to have

cutouts between himself and these sub-agents, " If there is a cutout or

cutouts here,

their identity is not yet known.

There may also be ap

unreported cutout between AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-4.

Except for AMFAUNit, all the above-mentioned cutouts are

Iwo of his support agents, including his mail drop,

are also

believed that he shares his favors between them. *If so,

AMFAUNA-1 has not been explicit on this point, bute has the

best of cover for his relations with them.

It also clarifies the

otherwise puzzling picture of a legal resident of Cuba sleeping in a

different bed each night.

This practice must certainly reduce

possibility that the C-2 will pick him up for routine questioning.

Communications:

11. The bulk óf AMPAUNA-l's communications come via S/W. His

méssages to UMWAVE are sent to accommodation addresses serviced by

AMPAN-2 and AMCUTLER-1. JMWAVE's messages to him are addressed to

AMFAUNA-14•

AMFAUNA-1 can also use

documents and other material unsuitable for S/W. He hasa personal

contact with two of the officers i

who either

bring

ng it, Jo. the IMVAVE area

-area and mail it to acurredor.

carry it

1004.

PERUSE CARO REPROATINg

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

NEACH

cocond Via AMPAUNA 14:

GLABBIFIBATION

SECRET

UFGA 4703

sand for the uoe of AMripLed and aMravelad by

way of thel

confirming that

If he is ever arrested, the news will

probably come firat by thia meane.

Financos:

Expensas of the operation are 8500 per month. The money is

givan sonthly to Identity-3 or Identity-4 in the JMWAVE area.

Identity-

3, upon receipt of the dollara, notifies identity l in Havana who in

turn pays Cuban pesoa to AMFAUNA-1.

Idantity-4 follows the same pro-

codure with Identity-?. AMFAUNA-1 confirms receipt of this money

Sub-agents:

15. Following is a description of the sub-agents in the AMFAUNA

not, including AMCOG-? and AMBOA-1 who, although they have their own

Independent connections to IMWAVE, have to some extent joined forces

with AMFAUNA-1.

For the identities of AMFAUNAs 2 through 23e see

Attachaant E, forwarded under separate covera

ALIFAUNA-2? AMFAUNA-l's sister-in-law, she formecly

served as his contact to members of his net in asylum in theod

various embassies, and now serves as his cutout to at least

the following:

(1) AMCOG-2:. She first appears in'AMFAUNA-l's

correspondence in his S/W message No. 14 dated

19 May 1961, where he mentions that she was his

link to a radio station operated by the (Rescate) 29

organization. Nothing ever came of this proposed

communications channel, buts AMCOG-? remained in

contact with AMFAUNA-1, helping him arrange asylum

for burned arents and dassine

some of his communica

tione

•4 AMFAUNA-1 reported

his message No: 11ß, dated June 1962, he reported

that AMFAUNA-15 had accidentally blown his true

name to AMCOG-2.

For a further discussion of AMCOG-?,

and her relation to the security of AMFAUNA-l see

paragraph 56 below.

.01

ol

(2) AMFAUNA-24)

She is the secretary of (AMCOG-2,)

with whom she has done clandestine work.

She now

serveS AMAUNA as an accommodation addresa ano as

a source of information. Message No. 112 dated 18

April. 1962 included the name of

a Communist nurse

who has allegedly come to the United States with

the mission of infiltrating a counter-revolutionary

doctor fin a Havana clinic)to She also is AMFAUNA-1's

AMFAUNA-15:

She is a relative of AMFAUNA-14)

and a friend, or AMCOG-2. She is also the wife of

INFAUNA-IT and a friend of AMFAUNA-16 who is now

imprisoned on the Isle of Pines)and sends her

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLAOBIPICATION

SECRET

DEERATON OVIEOL AND RUSSOZA

UFGA-4703

b.

AMFAUNA-38 AMFAUNA-1'e firat mention of her

is in his S/l medbage No. 121 dated 4 May 1962.

She has

provided information on military hospitalgroand has a

trusted contact (Idontity 7) in the G-2J,45he alao o

AMFAUNA-1'a cutout to Identitvo12. who was al Havana

contact of the

oarly June 1962 she was approached br Identity-8 wha

claimod to be the naw contact to the

organization.

(Sae also paragraph 58 below.) On 15XMarch 1962 AMFAUNA-3

was traced by ODIBEX who proposed to use her in their

Operation CASINO.

Headquarters is requested to ascertain whether ODIBEX

has a valid prior claim on this agent.

AMFAUNA - 4;

He is a high-ranking cuban Army officer

who has provided AMlAUNA-1 with documantary information which

ought to be of some value, although triwave has not yet seen

it, it having gone

to Headquarters via Madrid through the

was introduced to him by Identity-13.01 For a further

discussion of this matter, see paragraph 56 below.

AMBOA-1: The origin of AMFAUNA-l's contact with

this agent, who has also been recruited independently by

JMWAVE, is uncertain.

He first mentioned her in October

1961 as his cutout to Identity-14. la Cubana Airlines pilor on

ho had formerly been a contact of

AMCUSP-1 and who subsequent-

ly defected.

AMFAUNA-l's last mention of her was on 15

November when he reported that she had given him a map show.

ing artillery installations on the south coast of las Villas.

It is possible that AMFAUNA-1 has broken contact with her,

but since he has not reported having done so it is considered

nore likely that she remains his cutout tortwo Cubana Airlineros

pilots who are known to be still reporting:

(1) AMFAUNA-18: He was recruited in March 1962

24

possible that AMFAUNA-1 meets directly with him.

It is only surmised that AMBOA-1, is his cutout to

him.

(2) AMFAUNA-19: He was recruited at the same

time as AMFAUNA-18. Although AMFAUNA-1 did not

explicitly say so,

it can be inferred that he and

AMFAUNA-18 are witting of each other's recruitment.

€ .

AMFAUNA- 5:

AMFAUNA-1 first reported her

former (naval officer) who had been an agent of AMFAUNA-1 as

early as July 1961 but had been caught and imprisoned for try-

ing to leave Cuba illegally.zushe has been the source of

information on Cuban airfielde! and is the cutout to a group

of people employed atl

• that the identities of all these people have not yet been

reported, but they seem to be effective.

On 29 May 1962!

AMFAUNA-1 reported the arrival of an undocumented Soviet / plane

340

and forwarded the passenger list which he

said one or his agents had obtained clandestinely.

Following

are the persons with

• whom AMFAUNA-S is known to be in contact.

(1) AMÉAUNA -20, her husband. AMFAUNA-1 has written

that he has broken dersonal contact with this man.

tries: tair tst+S. +498+0 4958 091-23-02004

TUBE

CARD

REPRODUCTIO

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CLARDIPIGATILN

DEMATON OVASSAL NAD NUASEER

CONTINUATION

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-4703

(2) AMPAN 121

office or hrsporta comar Chial enginger of the de

recruitod by Havana

station in 1960, and has been corresponding with

JHWAVE by S/W.

AMFAUNA-21:

for cubara hirtined onior inspector of mechanicud

He has atatad hia willingnoga

to cabotage air trafrignuout nia precise contributior

to AMFAUNA-l'a operationa

AMPAUNA 22 8

chios Ge electr cal iratrumento 08

for Cubana AIrTInes.)

Nothing more is known about this

ol

(5) AMFAUNA-23: Brother-in-la: of AMFAUNA-S.)

AMFAUNA - 6:

A support agent.

AMFAUNA-1 has written

are sore noral sion:

that she has no accegs to information of interest, but is an

intelligent and brava female whom he uses for cover and to

AMFAUNA-?:

old friend of AMFAUNA-l and his

brother AMULEK-To| He

works

closely with AMFAUNA-8 andz4

formerly was AMFAUNA-l's cutout to

AMFAUNA-8

An old friend of

brother

ANCOrDER-IDOl He has a contact in the interior Miniatry)

and works

closely with AMFAUNA-7.

he secures

A former gain manage romate

alcoffee firm,

travelling throughout Cuba.

She is also

information on

whereabouts and indoctlanation provaced

AMFAUNA -11:

An employee of the

and the wife of a communist men to ce sence.

In March 1962 AMFAUNA-l reported that she was under survellance

and that he was therefore avoiding her.

AMFAUNA- 12 :

He obtains information from

contacts

within

the (Cuban Petroleum Institute (ICP) | 08

AMFAUNA-13: An (ingurance) company employee with

contasts in

the cuban Government, he has reported information

on G-2 activities in Cuba and the United States.

Background and Motivation:

AMFAUNA-1 is a (39-year-01d/Cuban male, born in Cuba of

tried his hand at various kinds of work

Including the import business, journalism the was once editor ofós

Diario de la Marina) and insurance.

Spanish Civil War he was a member of the

world war Il, until the entry of the United States, he was ar

trained AMFAUNA-1 in tradecraft in March 1961 (see UFGA-1247 or 10

April 1961) observed that he already had

techniques. The case officer also characterized AMFAUNA-1 as

pLeasant, intelligent fellow"

comprisins hinselt, Must and arcerer gatute member of the team'

N00 XX$15:20

ENLUNE

CARD

REPRODUCT

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OP

ASPATCH

CLADDIPICATION

SECRET

LAUS AND HAND

UFGA-470:

childron, all atill in Cubalao of March 1961)

Howaver, it is noted

that the

two children hava diffarent matronymice, that neither of than

is hia wife's last name, and that all three dependents have diffarent

addresses. It is aeguned that this is his third wife.

Since AMFAUNA-1

has never mentioned her in any of his S/l correspondence, it is also

assuned that she has gone the way of her two predecassora.

18.

AMCUTLER-I, who was questioned on this point, said that his

brother is living in

with his present wife,

that he hag been

arried only once bafore and has only one child from the first marriage

This information is not considered definitive, because the inst point

In directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-l's PR? Part I which he wrote him-

readed but it le included here for what it may be worth. AMCUTLER-1)0/

leaded that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents

except what is coneidered normal and acceptable by Cuban atandards.

IT 19. The elements of AMFAUNA-l's motivation, then, include an

adventurous spirit and a taste for clandestine work;

: Communism" may be an overworked expression, it would seem to apply in

--the case of AMFAllNA-l. "if his former membership

can be taken as indicators.

Also included

enoula be the doss or altreight forwarding business which started out

promisingly in 1959 but

folded up after a yearoof CASTRO's revolution-

..apy government.

Finally, although these factors did not yet exist

an January 1961 when he was recruited, AMPAUNA-1 is certainly affected

now by the death of AMCUSP-1 and the imprisonment

Control

[.

20.

It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives

great personal satisfaction from his work

against the CASTRO regime.

His connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work.

This is believed to be a strong element of control.

There have been

many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 to do

something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is

believed to be effective.

Previous History of the Operation - January to May 1961:

21. AMFAUNA-l was engaged in some form of clandestine work against

the CASTRO regime as

early as December 1960,09 As with so much elze in

this operation, detaiis are lacking, but it is known that he already

whom he had known for twenty

via soon december 196e, Edentity 29 introde la AMTAun =0 to edentity-

her group, ldentity-28.

15?, in turn brought in Identity-26, a fellow MAR coordinator of dentity"

22. In Januaryd1961, AMAUNA-locame legally to the United States

together with ANCUSP-] and AMCUTLER-1 and looked up their old friend

AMJAG-4, who at that time was heavily engaged in work with the

AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer

who instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as nany

resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through

AMRUNG-1) who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field.

Also inolthe IMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19

and Identity-?3

whom they met and with whom they were later to work.

0923.

AMFAUNA-2, AMCUTLER-2

returned to Cuba in

I7 to Sancti

Spiritug, Identity-18 to Irinidad land Identity-31 Co

Ganzanillo, Bayamo,

and Santiago de Cuba. An unidentified courier was

put into touch with the guerrilla leader Identity-15', and AMCUSP-1) of

-and AMCUTLER-1)went to Cienfuegos with Identity-19 to make contacts

with insurgent groups there.

fir:

RES

---

## Page 7

14-00000

• ..

•MASSIPICATIO

CONTINUATION OF

LASPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-4703

• timo, as did AMRUNG-1, of

Alcusp-ja/ to support the activities of AMFAUNA-1, AMCUTLER-IN

and

it was agreed that IMWAVE would deposit 81,000 monthly into

the local bank account of AMCUSP-l and the latter would provide the

equivalent in Cuban peson from hielown resourcas inaide Cuba.

26.

AMCUSP- and and con continued

to busy thengelves with

April invasion

They contacted

Tilentity-21 who, at their request, provides cover

and algo for Identity.r'is (travolling drugor

who wag Intended to

Although AMFAUNA-1 knew all

and the escape or

DUCUTLER-] he had some difficulty in reestablishing contact with them.

base conna arranted toy its surrender, using Identity-34,

head of the

as a cutout.

He had another agent

on the base, identity 36, and nad already.

recruited AMPAUNA-Ll, an

employee of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, 00

(on 18 March 1961) AMCUSP-1)and AMBUNG-1) were arrested by the

G-2 while holding a clandestine meeting.

At first this was not

regarded as too serious a matter.

The Go2 had broken into the meeting

only after having been alerted by the sugpicious behavior of a woman

lookout, and it was belieyed that they

had no real evidence.

AMCUTLER-1)

to Cuba on

1591

ere executed lon 20 April

With the wave of arrests accompanying

April 17 invasion, AMCUTLER-i) took asylum in the

Embassy and

AMFAUNA-1 went temporarilylinto hiding.

29.

On 27 April 1961 AMFAUNA-1 resumed operations by sending

-Identities 24, 25,

/in Matanzas.

Identities 26 and 27 returned to Havana to report.

no 20 returned to tavar

-Identity-25 remained in Matanzas, and Identity-24 was caught by the 6-2.

30.

In May 1961, Identity-30 informed AMIAUNA-i that some kind of

conspiratorial activity was going on in the home of AMCOG-2.

arranged to meet her through Identit -30 whom he thereafter used an a

cutout to her.

31. This phase of the AMAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart B.

The following people participating in this phase were separated from the

operation by known causes:

By arrest and execution;

(1)

AMCUSP-1 01

(2)

AMRUNG-1O

b.

By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-24

(2) Identity-28

c.

By asylum or escape

to the U.S.:

(1) AMCUTLER-1) 01

(2) Identity-23

P#:#: +951 11257929

BAND

REPRODUCTION

---

## Page 8

14-00000

-CONNNUATION OB

SECRET.

DISPATON SYNDOS AND MUNCERA

UFGA-4703

PoBviOus History of the Operation - June to November 1861:

32. In the period baginning June 1961, AMFAUNA-1 firet began

caking rogular use of AMEAUNA-2Jol He needod

contact with his

allaborators who worg in asylum in various western, ambasolda, and

with AlPAUNA-?oponly visiting her huaband AMCUTLER-1)(ghe)gvas a

ratural choice for the job.00 with the departure of Identities 29

and 30, AMFAUNA-1 began using AMEAUNA-?) as cutout to AMCOG-2 who

-ubeful to him for her ability to obtainlthe hol ofl

In August 1961 he used this channel to send out some order

battlé information obtained by Iden:ity-al.

Identity-21 continued to help Identities 19 and 20 until they

Look asylum inf

1od He also served as AMFAUNA-1'e

cutout to Idantity-50 Who was a close friendi

For cutouts to identity-3i.ef the

16,06|

AMFAUNA-1 firgi used

"Identity -51 and then AMFAUNA-8. AMFAUNA-8 11ão served as culout to

Dentity-45 about whon nothing more is known than his name 6

AMFAUNA-1 developed another contact tol

this period insthe person of identity- 52, al

during

and a former lieutenant in the Rebel Army, Identity-52 met AMFAUNA-1

and Identity-21 on 27 October 1961,

and then remained in touch through

Identity-51.

A few weeks later identity -52 was arrested.

35.

At some time during the period June to. November 1961, AMFAUNA.

began collaborating with AMBOA-1.

The origin of this collaboration is

not known, but it appears that the initiative was taken by AMBOA-1.

AMFAUNA-1 reported that she had revealed to him the fact that she has

a channel of S/l communication

tO KUBARK, and that she had claimed to

be a friend of the widow of AMCUSP-IJol AMFAUNA-1 asked IMWAVE to

confirm her bona fides, and this was done..

AMBOA-bEthen began working.

#STAMFAUNA-1's cutout to Identity-14, a Cubana Airines pilot, who in

gurn was receiving information from Identity 40, an employee of Cubanal

As some time prior to November 1961, Identity4D was fired from her job

and held for interrogation by the G-?.

36. During the same period AMFAUNA-l added the following new

-agents:

a. AMFAUNA-23 (for description see paragraph lje5 above).

D. AMFAUNA-5 (for description ser paragraph ise above).

Identity 41, a person who allegedly was collaborating

with several other clandestine groups.

He had two sub-agents

in the Ministry of Public Works identities 42 and 43.

production has been attributable

to these people.

Identity-46,

who allegedly was able

obtain*

Nothing ever came or this contact.

between

1.4

e. Identity-47,

AMFAUNA -1 obtained some order of battle

Intormation fronther, apparently on an unwitting basis.

August 1961 he reported that he was dropping her because she

was a

Communist and had given him information which he

considered of doubtful reliability.

Identity-48,

a foreman(on the lavana dockg who provide

some order or battle information.

708

:.1

Identity-49,

Although his recruitment was reported, AMFAUNA-1 never mentioned

1.

him again.

SHorionde

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CLASSICA TON

CONTINUATION O

MISPAYON

SECRET

DROPSTON I GYRIDOL AND NUMERA

UFGA- 4703

and AMFAUNA-1 hid him in Havana

untid ho was able to got abylum tor

MiMin in the Ecuadorian Embaasy, 0b

38:

tho

operation by known causes:

8. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity I5

subsaguantly

se aped ind took asyium

in the Argentina Embassy 200

2) Identity 20 (subsequentl,

escaped and took asylum

an the Argentine Embassy

(3) Identity 40 linterrogated

by G-2+ but the Juration

of her detention is not known).

(4) Identity 52.

D. By asylum:

(1) Identity z1

(2) Identity 37.

Previous History of the Operation -

December 1961 to ARTi} 1962:

During the periodfrom December 1961 to April 1962. AMFAUNAI

-continued to use AMFAUNA-2)as a cutout to AMCOG-2.

The latter was. 24

"given & lead in March 1962 from Identity-13; one of her

tacts, to a disaffected Cuban Army officer, AMEAUNA-yol she turned

and the latter held his first meeting

jing to AMFAUNA-l's account of the incident in his message No. 89.

25 February 1962. Identity-ll had been meeting

AMFAUNA-1 had warned her not to trust the man, but

she met nim again on the following day and was caught with him.

AMFAUNA-] commented that some of his other agents were not compartmented

fron her, and he had ordered them to go into hiding.

AMAR these other agents, inest ably the, inelle ta nu

AMFAUNA-8.

0

41.

AMFAUNA-3 was recruited during

this period and used as a

cutout to Identity-1206 the Havana representative)of the insurgent

According to an official announcement by the

Cuban Government, (

16 April 1962.

sources have contradicted this reportand the matter still remains in

some doubt.

However, according to information obtained by AMFAUNA-1,

Identity-12 was arrested in his home in Havana in late April.

further discussion of the possible security implications of this

connection, see paragraph 59 below.

been servingent tine the during the period runay

to November 1961, had

now established a

contact with Identity-54, a reefdent of (Cienfuegos)who cluimed to be a

disillusioned counter-revolutionary. As alcutout to Identity-54, she

used Identity-53."

As far as the records, snow, no results were ever

-obtained from this connection.

0б43.

Identity-14 defected during this period, as did Identity-57,

Ji another Cubana Airlines pilot)whom AMFAUNA-I had recruited and was

хвізaь.s

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONTINUATION O

DIRATCH

CLABSIFICATON

SECRET

DATA TON MISSOS NED NASIR

UFGA-4703

MU. AMFAUNA-21 and AMFAUNA-22, both employees at

first made their appearance during this perioa, and AMPAN-14

sno nas and continues to use his own S/W vommunicationa to IMwAVE)

found his way into the AMFAUNA operation. All three are known to

AMFAUNA-5, and it is belleved that shi is probably the cutour to them.

Identity-55 and Identity-56 were mentioned briefly as active

during the period from December 1961 to Ap:il 1962.

The former had

boen a contact of AMRUNG-jil and seeme to have gone into hiding; in any

case, nothing more has bean reported on him.

The latter was an agent

Of AMFAUNA-1 in

oin January 1962 he was in niding and

awaiting a chance to go into asylum.

46.

AMFAUNA-11 remained active durin, this period, anc AMFAUNA-9,

10, and

12 were added to the operation.

Fur descriptiong of these

agents, see paragraph 15 above.

This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart

D.

following people participating in

this phase

were separated

from

the operation by known causes:

By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-11

(2) Identity-12.

D. Bx asylum or defection:

(1) Identity-14

(2) Jientity-55

(3) Identity-56

(4) Identity-57.

Production:

JMWAVE records do not show the tocal number of AMFAUNA

reports disseminated since January 1961.

The figure is at least fifty,

and is believed to be nearer one hunred, if the present frequency. of

dissemination can be a criterion.

In content they have leaned

heavily toward the activities of insurgent groups, militia movemants,

location of artillery, and

aviation matters.

There has been a more

recent tendency toward political and economic information, which is

being encouraged by JMWAVE. Evaluations of his production are lacking•

Security Analysis:

The possibility that AMFAUNA-1 is a double agent is consider-

ed remote.

His successful LCFLUTTER,

the fact for what is believed to

be the fact that his close friend and fellow agent AMCUSP-1 was

executed, and AMFAUNA-l's owi character and background,

allolargue

against the proposition that he was originally dispatched by the G-2.

However, it must be admitted that the LCFLUTTER carlbe beaten.; Also

that there is no proof, other than the wadt thanat AMcusp-i)was really

in the JMWAVE area and

behaving like a widow,

executed.

There is documentary evidence, in the formlor a lette

ritten by a fellow prisoner to AMCUSP-l'g widow, that he was hel

in prison in March and April 1961.

and buried the body was AMFAUNA-l's father,

However, the person who identifie

who was subsequently

nt Dinad).

URE, CARD REPRODUSTION

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CONTINUATION O

CLAGBIPICATION

SECRET

DIG ATOM STILLOL AND RUMEZER

UFGA-4703

DISPATCH

50.

imsdartys

all that is known about AMFAUNA-l'a background

'ones fron AMFAUNA-l'e own atatemants embodied in hit

PRQ Part I. No.

confirmation of this information has evor been obtained. From this

point of view there is no guarantee that AMFAUNA-1 lo what he claime

O B.

For all the proof to the contrary available to unwave, ne

could as easily have been a Spanish Communet as a member of the

Spanish Falange, 2

=

These points are listed for the rake of completeness, but

littla limportanca is attachad to char.

The known fact that QUANTUM Eg

and QUANTÜM-52 consider AMFAUNA-l reliable suggests that he at least

vlaw haali, (Spaniah) Commundat

And an unusually extensive independent

been obtained of AMFAUNA-l's operations through the raporta

and debriefings of eight of his agents who have either ascared to or

ane in comnunication with the United Stater.

The defection fa

Identity-14, and the escape and debriefings of Identity-19,

dentity-23,

Identity-?6,,

and Identity-29, have all cor."irmed parts of ANFAUNA-1's

for the same reasons, the possibility is heavily discounted

that AMFAUNA-1 has been caught

and doubled by the G=l since his arrival

in Cuba. Additional indications

that all is still well are the fact

that he never omits the safety signal that was given him for use in his

S/w, that his operational activities are consistent with his character

and background, and

that the reporting of his agents is consistent with

their access to information.

53•

Whether AMFAUNA-1 is now in danger of being detected, and

whether

the G-? could double him if they do catch him, are iwo

Taking the second question first,

it ig believed

that the chances of the G-? running a successful cI

operation against KUBARK through AMFAUNA-1 are extremely slim. To be

sure, the G-2 has certain weapons thatythey could use against AMFAUNA-1.

His father is already in prison, serving a fifteen-year sentence, and

his mother and two children(are still in Cuba as potential hostages.)o

It is also conceivable that the G-? could use AMFAUNA-l's own interest

in paramilitary operations as a lever by persuading him that KUBARK,

by neglecting to support the insurgent leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ, was

responsible for the latter's death and has demonstrated its indifference

This would all take time, however,

AMCUTLER-1 would almostlcertainly have learned, either through his

phone conversations with AMFAUNA-2 O: by the interruption of the same,

that something is wrong with AMFAUNA-1.

54. The risks that AMFAUNA-l is now running are believed to be

considerable.

ror one thing, at least ten persons with varying degrees

of knowledge

of his clandestine operations, have been held temporarily

or permanently by the G-?, which is believed to be increasing in

competence as a security force.

For another, AMFAUNA-1 takes unnecessar

chances, as by interrogating

new and untested agent (AMFAUNA-4) in

the personal autonobile of his sister-in-law,

or by personally trying

to penetrate a restricted area. And for a third, he has some contacts

which can be dangerous to him.

AMCOG-2 knows too much about AMFAUNA-1 for the latter's good.

It is believed that AMFAUNA-1 himself is

aware that this is a potential-

ly serious security weakness, because he took the trouble to report it

(see paragraph l5al above)..

The AMCOG operation is itself a fairly

complex one, and will be analyzed in a separate dispatch.

Cuban politician,) and that they are widely known, both in Cuba and in

REPRODUOT

1ORS

---

## Page 12

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLABBIRICATION

SECREI

DISPATOM ATLAROL AND MUSIETA

UFGA -4703

It hao been

by virtue of his posseusion of very danaging information about castro.

There may da soma aubstance to thia rumor.

would have been in the bast poosible position at the time to obtain

proof of tham.

This might well explain why the family enjove innunity

today.

It would seen, thougn, that an aler. and competent security

service, which the g-? shows signs of becoming, if it is enjoined from

arresting and prosecuting an espionage surpect, would at least try

control and monitor his operationg by pen-trating them.

It is there-

fore a cause for speculation that, in

Feb uary 1962, an importani

officen of the Cuban Army (AMFAUNA-U)" aliegedly desirous of defecting.

was introduced by Identity-13 to AMCOG-?, and a matter for Jeep concern

that AMCOG-? passed

the lead along to AMFAUNA-1 who accepted it with.

out any prior checking and actually held his first meeting with the

would be defector in an automobile tracedile to AMFAUNA?.

then, it has been observed that reports and sub-sources offered by

AMFAUNA-4 are absorbing an increasing amount of AMFAUNA-l's time.

alitary manuals angluocuments turned over by AMFAUNA-4, and sent to

Headquarters via the

QUANTUME and the Madrid

Station, have not yet beer

seen by JMWAVE, 30 it is not

vet known wheth'éf AMFAUNA-u's productior

can be given a sufficiently high evaluation to allay the doubto raised

by the manner of his

recruitment.

Headquarters is asked to advise on

this as soon as possible, and to provide traces on AMFAUNA-4,

57. The other potentially dangerous contacts are,

as might be

expected, in the field of

para-military activities. In November 196118

AMFAUNA-1 was in touch with Identity 52, a

through Identity-51, a resident of Cienfuegos, 1o Identity-s was

arrestgal late in the vear. 4AprAUNAl then developed another contagio

to thel

through Identity -12,0

inrepresentative,, whose cutout to AMPAUNA-l. was AMFAUNA-?, a woman from

now resident in Havana,

Identity-12 was

arrested in

d(April, presumably as an aftermath of

the 18 April battle in which

RAMIREZ was reportedly killed.

58. In late May or early June 1962, Identity-8, a person from

Mav near Trinidad with one

= letter for delivery to Identit

Identity i? because of the latter's arreeri

Unable to find

Identity..8 who introduced him

to AMP'AUNA--3

whom he handed over the

approached

letter.

The letter reads as follows;

"Dear Brother-in-Arms:

"I greet you and officially report to you, as our

representative

to the Military Junta

of

the END, the sad

news of the death of our commander-in-chier.

Oswaldo

RAMIREZ, on 16 April last at 9 a.m. Me fell in battle

together with other brothers.

The

certificate to this

effect, containing the testimony of Captain BURGE, chief

of the

personal guard, and

of other members of his escort,

is in my possession, and I will hand it over to you or to

anyone designated by the Military Junta of the FND.

"The disorganization caused

by the above-mentioned

events prevented

our reporting this news to you right away,

and only now have we been able to make contact with the

bearer, a man who has been working for some time

as messenger

and enjoying

the complete confidenge of Oswaldo RAMIREZ erd

of ourselves in particular.

APERTURE

GARD

REP

ROOUCTIONS

---

## Page 13

14-00000

GLASBIPICATION

CONTINUATION O

esteron

SECRET

DESATE: EVIATOL

ANTO PASMALA

UFGA-4703

who will ocoupy the position of supreme commander of our

liberation army.

Whether it be one suprame chief or a

joint command must be desided by you.

"Although

the National Liberation Army has continued

working and aating according to the corme laid down by

you and by our late chief, you will understand the urgency

of this interviow which the bearer w1l1 tell you how to

In anticipation of your denisions I sign nysell

respectfully,

al s

9. As mentionad in paragraph 15b prove

ODIBEX has some kind of

Intonest in AMFAUNA-3, und it may be that thair files contain

Intelligible

answers to some of the questions raised by this develop-

ment. For instance:

Why did the RAMIREZ organization not know or the

arrest of Identity-12, one of its own members, which nad

occurred at least a month previously?

If the RAMIREZ organization was so poorly informed

about Identity-12, how did they know about AMFAUNA-3, and

why did they think she would be the appropriate person to

give the letter to?

Given the disorganization complained of by the

writer

the fact that all meetings must

have been arranged and held under clandestine conditions,

how to account for the fact that in the maximum of six

days between 28 May and 3 June when AMFAUNA-1 reported

the developments by S/W, something like the following

sequence of events must

at have taken place:

i do

near Trinidad

in Las

villàs proyince, and receives t

the letter.

travels to Havana and tries

to locate

Identity-12.

as been rested: "

Sis informed that Identity-12

returns to Las Villas, reporte

that the letter cannot be delivered to Identity-12,

and is told that AMFAUNA-3 should be given the letter.

(5)<

goes to Sancti Spiritus and

locates Identity-8 who is a personal friend of

AMFAUNA-3 and can introduce him to her, and who

providentially is able to vouch for the authenticity

of

signature on the letter.

(6)(

and Identity-8 go to Havana and

give the letter to AMFAUNA-3.

Future Plans

It is difficult if not impossible to give an operation of

this complexity the support and direction it needs, when the only

communicetion with the cincipal agent is by secret writing.

There

is nevers enough room in an S/l message for both the positive intelligence

reporting and the supporting operational details, and it 1s the lattar

that suffer.

S/W communication also inevitably

involves a time las

which, in the case of this operation, has sometimes run as high as

arate honards of the frenment

Ahsences from town of AMCUTLER-1

EE?

---

## Page 14

14-00000

CLAOMICATION

DEFATON PESTOL ALDO MURSENA

CONTINUANON C

DI8РAГOH

SECRET

UFGA- 4703

6ã. As a firer atap toward speading up communicatione, It is

planned

to finú anothar acaormodation addrosa in the UMWAVE asad for

AMFAUNA-l's und which can le expected to lunation withour the delayo

that have been axparianded racantly.

Bocaude of the laportanod and

argonay of some of AMFAUNA-l'8 intelliganoo reporto, consideration

¡a also being

given to assigning a radio oparator to him, probably

AMGLEN-9 who is awaiting only his signal plur. to become setiva una

who will probably not be needed in the AMWEN nat as originally

• the trip

planned.

62. AMFAUNA-1 will be instructed to break off contact with

AMCOG-2, and to cease

intoresting himself in the affairs of the

Escambray.

As for AMFAUNA-4, it 18 feared that AMFAUNA-1 i8 already

0o doaply involved with him that, if he war not a bona fide defector,

the damage has already been done.

Neverthlese, AMFAUNA-1 will ba

barnad of the potontialities of

this situaiion so that he ca. bo

propared to go into hiding if it should develop baaty.

Specific

ailitary requiramanta will be sent to AMFAi NA-l for AMFAUNA-4 IC

holp in establishing his value as

Also for the improvement

of the security of the operation, AMFAUNA-1 will ba

taking

personal and unnecessary riske such as his penetration of a

restricted

63. For the continued improvement of production, political ind

economic requirements will to sent to him.

AMFAUNA-1

is very

rosporaive to requirements, and has already devedoped sources

informanto in the political

and economic areas in response to

instructions

fron JNWAVE,

It is believed that an increased

output

of higher-priority intelligence can be expected from this operation.

END CE DISPATCH

A2air

---

## Page 15

14-00000

---

## Page 16

14-00000

200 co

ALEBJUBS CARO REPRODUCTIONS,

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Identity?

• Identity a

Identity y

Identity &

Identity

Identity i

Identity a

Identity 9

Idantity i0

Identity 11

Identity 12

Identity 13

Identity 14

loentity 15

Identity 16

Identity 17

Identity 18

Identity 19

Identity 20

Identity 11

Identity

Identi cy

Identity

Tientity

ldentity

Idertity

Identity

identi xy

Soon non

bes COPY

20011291230

169-6-5043

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECKEI

Page

ox Separato Cover

Attaolment E to UFGA 47.02

co Chiaf, TEW

Identizy

30

Identity 31

Identity 32

Idanticy 33

Identily j

Identity i

Identity ai

Identity ",

Identity T

Identity ?:

Identily y

identity !:

Identity 4

Identity 4:

Idemily:

Identir i

Identity ""

Identity 4?

Identity '

Identity 4y

Identity ::

Identi t

Identitu

Identity 5

Identity

¡Identity

Icenilty

Identity

---

