# 104-10180-10061

## Page 1

104-10180-10061

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETUR

NIZO

Backgroung

FROM:

Xedro GA"

REPÓRT APPROVER BY: WILLard EL FEEL

DATE-DE REPORT: 34 FObruiry 1962

DISTRIBUTION:

Ву сору во:

I-Bib, PAO; id, lin, 2A, Esis

Orally so:

- 1-Habana

I-LA.

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER/SHEET

REPOS INQ:

I PAGES:

NO

ENCLOSURES:

REFERENCES; NONT-STORER 44062,905I5256

Hold File Bos 50-7-165

3-Flles

SOURCE CRYPTONYM

1U-NO!

KRYPTON:

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA AND CONMENTS:

SOURCES

wallaco C. Rikon From Manuel Francisco AT it Duesa

SUSJECTS

Actiultios of the Moviniento Rocuporacion Revolucionaria (IR), AntI-CASTRO

Orginliation

CARMITSE

1o

: Sourco does not rumenber nunes eusily, ani song of the nunes senilord in this ro

port aaj to incompliste.

vinilo source nas extraiely open ind couperative in describe

1ig. noit deiails of lie ilüt, he refused to ideitify the las aoter min Cuian Arry

Incelligorio on the ground shut the intomation nas too sensitlit. .

Rozarding Intorandon recuested In Die11969, Source reported chit ano radio flations

aro beins estaaliched, one in Mexico and one in Cuba.

The is asaifesto lo still??

pending and must bo resi ty Sourca bofore it circulates in cars. me Mut had-circu-

Inted tho folloning anti-clit-0 anterialgs

(a) The rosiunution Letter of Manuol Prandisco ARTi'S Suess;

(0) a chapter of AUricto book (tre chaptar is ontitled Marrerable Heotine")

(e)

A socond letter fron AlLs 11 roaly to accusations naie on seicrision. by Fidel

САЗТНО;

Fino. want

ed, RATISTA

TO TACO.

• norantire Paras

16, Sourca

reported that

Aran

to kozdog& conser of the British ab

7io set,on tre plane from Habana

exico city who laviced higand through

hir, Sourco so Lali with him at tho i

91

Ploase somard a copy os the-lasern

ition of this

report to 5t1:123.

RIS PLEASA GOD NUS AS LUCED

S&

FUN STITIO:

148-

18-947

es copY 2472160

GIDD PARTIDES 80

---

## Page 2

-..

deadlad

Lim snore fire arciao Parasio.

68880-001

3 1969299

COUNTRY Macio/Ciss

Recujaricion lerolucl.rrta (1333);

REFORT NO, $5:-176

DATE OR REPORT: 1:01 104155 1910:

NO. Of PACES ?

REfERENCES

11-91?)

111-114)

iat1-il5s

DATE Of FOUrUITS 1960

No.

PLACE &

Mexico, Moxico Clty (15 Fobruniy 1900)

CATE ACO.

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOIE FORGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE,

Person ulth rood connections anons anti-chit i Cuian edles in l'exico (3),

"rua a suribor ai tho jast (8).

lo

The main centors of activity of tina morialenco lecueracion Ravolucionarla

Cil?, co-urdirted are1-Cioli0 norerent) althin Cuis are in tho previnces

of H.bana, Pina, dol Rio, Canzjucy, and Oriente. The ill his tha following

leaders In Culis:

wou travels tiroü hout Bein

Frolendin: Circle is arsalsin: help for initi

- nelloral Torritorial"

Dullin

1039

Ove

Jello/U. Mi Aloneo, prostient or tha ilico

an milncer

Captain Joritsous

- ¡neral co-ondirator

42850

"treasurer.

- dircetor di proparans

chiof oi. Oriento

Province

-Cie of Ibana Provi

- calel military conci

chias of action

stary of unive

ski.

Sured Ven as

Ming 72 2es:123

Сниї

armellica,

15!

---

## Page 3

"1"s.11d1. no

Elon, also are du tries lli the lilo

corormont lo Oriento, n't Gland, am clint el slo couling re Inli

cuntictod.of. lie 'is?

art le 13 mili: siestal efforts to rocr.le MaJor

¡In addieson do tie Intairatod inor a us to 1a2, batin Irsilo nal crntdo »

•bia, the til has rola blow all la canvade a cutal: dloir alllances,

coordin lon, or con trillai ulch tie foliotiris Manuel Albanlo VALiA

The or

ise silliary trainine ds your peoplo

no laco military exertance; 2) Inatruciong to qve the sillier Grainines

ane 3) erulinent, Anchorin irmsents nel plazes.

and aurora, hise attorer financial assisturico is the ills hoimper,

C'es Monsoy

will nos be curtherni. until a hase ls estadlis.el in duiss fria wilch te

5.

for fidel Unid is reste

Lavine @a0d0 wirected anot

Pall th:++ +919706-84309

pure in cro incidest.

•Ілоузі,

1s noN

88

978:18 are.

Mere and will

HE Man in Dines

Mers rured anest to

And permit lion atone lan wa

16-3

Sourco Prurants

Men A called

Mata

anarclical is

In silnor res

08

Succa

---

