# 104-10220-10131

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10220-10131

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONTIDENTIAL'

7÷684

ОРПожА с 1 4 149 10

UNITIN STATES GOVERDENT

Memorandum

: Memorandura For the Recard

, DATE: 3 March 1906

race: Verdaab, Thorne ends By

SUBjRET: Foundation for Orphans in Greece, Inc.

- Fits

--------216

572684

1. The subject organization is an Averican organization, founded

195Y by

X 11111an Kar1ka, & US citizen

of Greek extraction, whose address as of ioda fna 250

Hest 57th Street, New York City. The address of the organization in 1951 was 11

Broadway, New York CIty.

In 1953, the organization's President, Mr. (fnu) Jackson, requested recog-

nition of the organization from une US Department of State as a fully authorized

voluntary foreign aid grouy. The Bureau of Internal Revenue recognized the organ-

Izatiou as a charitable organization as early as 1951.

3. A check by CS óf Departsent of State records, disclosed that State requested

security nams checks on the argenization's officers.

No derogatory Information was

developed.

Fles of OS disclose Box sllghtly derogatory information on Illllan

630W1

4. Mrs. Rosemary Docley bas.

VInorne: par

has treate on above into a

i .201990111911

---

## Page 2

4-00000

72684

CO:

inles.

26 Dotobor 1958

ATTI

4t0: 5-72684

CorSor, ni11118a — Bedtod Statos Delegato lo All African Peoplo!

1. A piolse palations san canoerned primarlly with forolgn

accounta roporto tical after she daloat of Mohamed Mangoud 1n

h1o bid to snesso roacident as the UN Assembly, torablo Anlo, tha

Budapeso isbursator: to tap inl lad Statos, commentod on sona aí

the "araalpor" dens dorossod dy a Willian Lauson.

that lavoon hed try fory pacullar 1doss..

Lawson had statod

that Mahgous ooriA sol, posalal, dave aspoctod to vin the ul

alootion alrco all this, to luntial seiopaparo in tho Unitod States

aro jontatronad and varal do apposed to Nahgoublo elsotion.

рагапШу, милою Із в мюща пиволо чел цю цаз богимо е

rganiiation lo costret dila baalmeds for Aticas oountries

2. Lawson, ascording to, dale, vill ba aso of the Unltad

Statos dalogaros to tha All antion. Peoploa. Confarance to be bala

In doare froa 3-22 Dacember 18776

Our contest suggested that 10

vita regard to tales coolerancs.

3. Tato saloraation has been fligrandes do GI.

I. M. ASHCRAFT

VIhorno: jal

Souroes Edward I Maßt

172684

SO FIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

8

Direros, Dazatle Costact Servie

baggers stass

Galos, minasagion Tale 0sss0

YAS-5:8-68

1 Octabor 1968

AFO]

SECRET

5-7-96-84

1-7-96-84

1. C/3 ROarioy ol Hachingtos Flold OPPleS A OCrOVEr 1968 receined

a teloppons call fros Dis conteNt BaLard K. Moss of hoss Interentlaral,

siro

susalsted to 802l075 1aF05210n

Dant são corniss loss bend recolved a phone enil, and lorer

"Poreden sarrlie offler, not on

BRONTO DO COOLIES DES ELA.

MN ME OSSIN THIN MN EE DE THE CUSE

18200a 10 cald to to a sister cal caa-18-105 a8 llas selcal dod Pradacha

5315 08 L MIla DEsal 1s Breasagion

SECRET

05:.526.0=071

CaDe: 5001:1

---

## Page 4

SECRET

4A3-5:868

P Ostabor 2908

000", a8 spot d8

Casa 8853.

5.

rallent his story to tha cia.

Dals despira deo sestario dy Duodecis

to sare orrorad bandiens uy croouraganent la his curarprise ocher save

EO GUCAVOI tO CONVOY 8S GAYTEBaLS OE ALa IteresE tO the CIA, Moss,

a muro, con to ragly fin dallay. la tha other bad, lo soy

Iugari to curlay blo trprocasoas.

so trersas to

QUINCA SOSISONO tO BARENTOE EROSBOLI G8 ANOSORA.

13080107885

alsitim

Lazenerg

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

F=7-26-84

KA5-105-66

director, Dorotle Coniar servica

Cases,

Hashlestos 01130e

RADIATA I. BORO TELOTÓN: LA APSIEa/PrOpOSed Ertiazz vIta

4. 72684

Eduard d. Mose lo an ala costrei of the l'ashingion

78eRA Orrice, Eavini Dom a goos tourn on ArTica artaleo.

DEllElia vere rodioed ond boon 11 nou seriag d iogury

ABalotan ilioctar (10= Pialle RAlZ:1OIa) Of thE 1A18O Esouso

Condita Do 61V23 IlEito, 1800 6 BEroci, Mollo, darlagios, D.C.

2. At Mila Eugeotion, duarloca lunched vico Maco da 37

IONy 1916. Il van cyparETi EbEL lionu conaliers tlo procat

salgasent osparatively vanierestina and lo loosing rourla

nitiro. No noiosely ad1eo, rapportod by bia long alno ossto-

Lent tro. MillE Callial, thai De Is One al tit fou U.S. esperi

soato.

MONLL'8 dUrSELOS 10 DUTY OS EDE AAIOCA COURiTICO In FeDrUaTy IDUS.

Ix Bald thai lasi saci femo dorarzu: lusc d callo Decano presto

La Lue largani arseninon dorovad to cosage ar all tindo to

aliator.

Soventiziaia lo bartle stit sers os tois colasga on sa esclusivo

an coleray vales an che sura, de. Uito sor colna valca adot:

Ercally con vase to girodoce.

LOS LO FUNEROUTE, dO BA:10N9I ESEROLICS MOUI FILELA UDO STOIIII.

---

## Page 6

193-15568

22 i- mussy 2966

DIS PLOTONI GENTONIO MES FLOSECO CE. DISE AITIOCA ORATE

ossicialo,

Da So leariena.

G61 EI808, CALENDE ILORA ARSIZ

BASTINA

.3908.92122

3828

3323389 X31

032230089

......i

---

## Page 7

A. 72684

Gior, La trasa ossea 5-72684

72684

442-358-65

20 say 2903

Attas

salare

---

## Page 8

00000

41A3 352065

80 RY 19E5

FUNESTO

JUNCIDOR 23 AGILE 2509 CE DiENT HOUSO SOT NE. BabarA M. t030

iso orarlooutsal costoran Masa Julla Col31n1, en1 10. 11l1l

Coleos 08 11 3238205.

BES pUPODO EN YO 11AGUBO ESOS' ASTIONA

Style 3810 6052954 0888 63-01-20 150 V90

lO LOSO IS EEY COLOJON IDIO DE LOSS SUS ESO DO A FOLL

ENRATOSO DO 0UULS ENTRARAS CON BIALENITLO COERASTO.

ENTONO PERO ORESADO.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

192684

15 хіт 2968.

ORAHDUE DORA IDA ROCOS

" en Case 31820,

CASE

Lo ITERA RUUrIAn adVIaDE thet ha ded recolver

rayusot 15CA Red SOlIan Of VE DIVISIOS, thO 1n terra

bozs9, end foTarLy Of CIA, rogrestIng that Sheriden

so0t velta a coreo al perlenlo cossetains a te Mi 5 726 84

soas os somicas Fronton tado, ser, arta

bad approachas Pariott, oncklag Asunsy 918 805 806T1'8

cargandration.

to the battor, and ha soule tobads a reposto Ba

aono casa mates seo pastad to soeridos.

808629 8. TRAVIS

IST)

---

## Page 10

CONTIDENTIAL

F.72684

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

• Chief, Contact DIVIsIOn

DATE: 4 Jamary 1960

FROM

:Chier, Hashington OffIce

1965072684

SUBJIET: JUlIA Cell1a1' - Contact vith Runalen Finance Miniater

A -72.084

1. In'late November 1959, Julia Cellial, Assistant to

Everd X. MoBs, Public Relattons, attended a diner party where

she was introduced to the Deputy Finance Minister of Rumania.

This Individual was In Washington for consultationa with the

nerational. Bark, ICA, State, etc. He asked her what be

should see in Wasnington, and she recoumended the usual places,

plus Charlottesville.

5.20359

2.

The following weex she was invited to a farevall

dimer for the Rumanian Cultural Attache, whom she had previoualy

sset.

The Deputy Finance. Minister cane up, remembered ber name

and said that he had seen everything she had recommended, Including

a weekend at Charlottesville.

He had taken along his superlor,

the Pisance Minister, and at the party, introduced bim to Hiss

Cel11n1.

The conversation was in Freach, although the Minister

. did understand English.

3.

The Minister asked her what else to see during their.

emairing week, and she recouriended the Monastery, Mt. Verdon,

etc.

He thereupon asked her to ascompany them to lunch, and she

explained that she could not, that she worked. On Friday, the

Inister called her to accompany then on the trip to Ht. Vernon

on Saturday.

she did not wish to do so, but could not grecefully

get out of 1t. On Saturday it was raining and the trip vas called.

off when she sald she could sot join them on Sunday. The Mlaister

called her once nore before learing lastilngton.

4.

This semarandun 18 written for the record of the fact

that both the Minister and Deputy Minister of France bed sbown

considerable Interest in Miss Cellini, in the event that 1t wight

be of day use at some future date.

lei den

berida

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 11

14-00000

ОЧАНОЛА

CONFIDENTIAL

.

5. 92664

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

' Chief, Contact Division

Atto:

IT. Travis

raos: chief, washington Office

DATE. 11 Septeuber 1959

Fil, Ludex

SUBJECT: Vacancy for Secretary in imbassy of Guines

1A-72684

Edward K. Mosa'potified this office today that the

Ambassador Iron Guinea is In the process of setting up hia

Imbassy In Washington, having returned to the U.S. last week.

He 18 100k1ng Por a chancery, an embassy, aod a residence, as

well as his basic staff.

He requires a female secretary, who he states must

be attractive, with shorthand abilities in French and Inglish.

She must not be a French citizen or have had emplo;ment by the

French Government.

Her salary would be in the viclity of $400

& month, tax free. A white woman 1s preferable.

3.

Moss sald that the Ambassador has bad diffloulty 1n

locating such a person and has asked loss to help, so that anyone

we wished could properly be Introduced through this means. Moss

pointed out that, since the girl would be the first employee of

a small staff, she vould attain a very important position.

felt that this might be significant in tist Frime Minister. Toure

18 polltically "on the fence".

Toure binself will be 1n Washington

on a state visit on 25 October 1959.

4. Please inform this office of any reaction to this

sUggestIOn.

25 Sept

Foy advise this tiny

I. Sarila-

_ but ow

fini annies - hope me can

suggestion - had ne

ve uns

---

## Page 12

726.54

SECRET

Chier, Hantaston o8F1c0

19 Docesber 1959

ChIot, Contact DIVLOSER (VB/B)

Tel (220 29271 - 81025-pal6 Dota On Illian tArita lae S-7-268Y

L. PP StaTt desinca to selo sa Rasentant ol L122les Karlos,

since aba alpht bo al opprational une.

204c0 Edard 8- 1086 1 79654

• May date that, you can paovide on subject's personality

cation, trults, palitical vitau, ete, voula da boljevi to ?

B. IL ASECRASE

515033/20%

SEGGET

---

## Page 13

14.000g

ưa tren

FROM:

• FOR:

And ite

EDWARD K. MOSS, Inc.

1025 Conneeticut Avenue, N. W.

Washingiun 6. D.C.

THE EMBASSY

OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

1/72684

HOLD FOR RELEASE:

AFTER 5:00 P.M..

THURSDAY, NOV. 27,

27, 1958

STATEMENT OF THE AMBASSADOR

OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

DE. Ibrahim Ania, Ambassador of the Republic of The Sudan, today

reaffirmed hla country'a friendship for the United Statos in a atatement issued on

the ove of his departuro for Khartoum, scheduled originally for carly this month

but dolayed until tomorrow bocause of the formation of a new government in The

Sudan carilor this month.

Di. Anis' statement followo:

"I would like to thank the Amarican public and especially the American

pross for the thoughtful cor.sideration with which thay received and appraised the

nows of the recent developments in my country.

Thanka to your refusal to jump lo

hasty conclusions and make comparisons with events in other countries which would

not apply to The Sudan, the relations between our countries have not béen atrained

as they might have been through misunderstanding and we remain today good frjends.

"The Government of my country was changed because partisan strife

between political partios threatened to bring about a demoralization of our people

and a loss of confidence in our ability as a nation to preserve the principles of froo-

dom and independence to which our people are determined to adhere.

"'A government of stability, including both military and civil leaders

acting with the approval of the spiritual leaders of our country, has assumed respon-

sibility to the people to resolve our internal problems and to maintain cordial sela.

tions with all other countries as befitting a free and independent, democratic Repub-

lic.

It has assumed the responsibility in a peaceful and orderly manner without ira-

pairing the rights of dissident elements or freedom of movement of any of our citizens

or visitoro to our country. It has assured complete freedom of the press.

It has

pledged itself to be bound by and give full effect to the agreements into which the

Republic of The Sudan has entered since our independence nearly three years ago.

(MORE)

---

## Page 14

14-00000

"In doing this my country has not boen moved by external pressures

or by any feéling of unfriendlinens towards other countrios.

On the contrary, our

Primo Minister, El Ferik Ibrahim Pasha Abboud, and his Government will work

to improve those relationa on the basis of mutual respoct, friendship and mutual.

"Paranount among the problems of relations with other coustries

to which our Government will addrens itscif will be to give expression to the con

viction of every Sudanese that it is of utmost importanco to bring about a fair

diviaion of the waters of the Nile which flow from our country into Egypt and which

are of great importance to the economic development of both nations.

"Our new Government has now been recognized by virtually evory

other country, including your own.

As iny nation's reprodentative, in the United

States since our independence l huve seen the alcady growth o1 closer relationa

and greater understanding between our countries.

I am made confident by the ro-

cent evente in my country and the sympathetic response to them by your country,

that theao cordial relations will endure and, indeed, can now be made even more

strong.

"It is my pleasure that my diplomatic career begas and ended with

my service as Ambassador to the United States.

It is a happy coincidence that

my last day in the United States is Thanksgiving Day.

For me it is a day on which

I give thanks for all the wonderful friends I have made here. It is a day on which

I congratulate all Americans for the friendahip they have extended to me and to my

country...

Although 1 am returning to private life, I want them all to know I shall

nevor cease my efforts to bring about increasingly close relations betwees our

two nations. "

A copy of this material is filed with the Depariment of Justice where the re-

quired statement under the foreign agents Registration act is avallable lor

public inspection.

Registration does not indicate approval'or disapproval of

this material by the United States Government.

---

## Page 15

12684

MIDENTIAL

biof, Contact B1V1a101

AtEas

ore. Btota

Caser, Haahlreston arrice

13 BorEabe: 1938

CASE

orio fact de sboro

A-2.2684

8. load 13 cartaln that tho lumaos sarariod tO In ONF

amarandus or 22 doptender 1958 la lllian Lauson. Lans beard

about dia tarenza sho budapeso Anbendador viso bad cormated sbat

LATORn a VIOA DOTO bad fas Intarational talazione, All this

Mosa Knowy is that LEUsOn 10 a UB NeRTO, UDo 11D0s 1n

palladalphla. Ha bad nothing narther la oid to tha Lutarestlor

lacladad is ors septanibar nasorandos.

3. Please claRa tala cana for tha tanatagion arTIco.

На б. Давоко

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 16

14-00000

REBE

72684

05 NOV 1958

8, Jo Eberidan

Chlen, costast Diviados, (1l10a)

Hey 8200 283945

CASE

ER/A, 1/8, 18 1aters0ted ls en ladividnal nonal Jess

JULIa LESION LIVES 19 BES JONA SIRY. TE UULA DO EPPrOCLARA

18 jou ocall attalo any farbber backeround leatoration oss

121203 La ra Jet sea, ospotall 115 2 20 194

pocats 1468 4208) 7212284 50l Je1008 Lesesa

aro con sad to

B. Il ADHCRAT?

Dsotr1burtlons

51881 = Abressa

l a Nies Croa

2 = VG

1 - Cace 23946

---

## Page 17

14-00000

72684

21 0CT 1358

A17A:

Odes, ET

FENG. JENN ROLER

n1es, cantoot Davisson, 00

finist

W21 len Losers - Valrad Itrien Dalepate to All Alricea Pooplone

THREE

Lo a fubllo palatters nan concerned potsarIly MEs farelEA

she Fulanuas intenandor to tha cultul statos, countos on or

salt tist inson had son very send lar 10oss, lenton bel

grarel that initous cosis sor poestais daro expectal to vin tha

10x116r 10v00n pantly 10 a palise Malations sa vis 1u

PORTIN AN OFEATLERTION tO CONUSE MUNA DUATIONS fOF ARTIES

0003x15100.

• lation, sacrsuins to min, 1

ball 18 hOOTe Pross 5-12 DasenDar 1998. Our cortect eugenerad

to satan v11h rapina so tale coinersnco.

ToLa INtOrNatiOn MAll so tartandas to the 025100 08

B. H. ASHCRAPTE

0518-81 - Addreske

1 - ALLEn CArODO

• H

A - Indes

1 = Virgduds Thome

rile Samar X. NoOs 11726541

sitetson: ers

---

## Page 18

4-00000

77684

CONFIDENTIAL O*

пов, Соває ттsво

At&as

0a108, Herblaztes 0051

M1IISEA LESSES

22 Bapreader 1958

1. 226844

1. At a BeatINg VILs DEvard R. MaCA, a publIe sAlAsIano sa

concerned solarILy Ules IorilLa Bicounte, on 19 Boptextas 1953,

ba repariod at length en his ertiuitics Mta ta sudanias pa10x

ro, sul astor ina electios of thi presidant of tha ld AtoseDly.

2. In the retred attor tha datoat al Mobsmand Hangori, Pea

•Budanso lsbarzeder to the US, Torahla Arlo, renariod on BOMB

"crockpot" view arrested by a lilllen lovson. LouDes apparently

10 B FUDlIE FALSTLONA DAR, TO LOS LOUTad IN OTFANLASIION t0 COMMECE

Tall al very peculleT thursts and bed stated that babguns coula sos

baro posstaly experted to vin the ti election, aluce lo the Us all

Installial natagapers aro devlad-oured and vould ba oyposed to.

sabgont a election.

3a Lisses, accenting to thngurs, vill bo ons of the UB dalagatois

0l Baçto BeRcast son lITING is other areas ol the varia.

V. Jo Dollars

13820010000/ 008

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

4-00000

i.

72684

Atins

males, sE/Gree

8005s 1415,

"5 Blog.

Mt. Thasos

Calel, Contact Diriaios, 00

7 JamaTy 1953

5-72434

la tava rocalvad a responso to your vertal request al

15 Dorsaber 1958 for firtuos blogaaphlo Infortition on Illllan

82r183.

sadition to har Grats dant project. she mis nocentuy immaives

1a tha mongsaint aifficultles at tha Botel 2400 li bichlagton

and 19 also constder ing sanaging en Iballas singor os a Us roxe.

ba a grou through the Bas-de-fard, unich iroup ia repostadly

sorrisisti.

posisiaK..

1. Por. further logalrsos, plone call dact Arenos, Ictensson

2147.

ILO M ABICRAT

Tar o ne 72041

SECAs,

---

## Page 20

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

1 - 2,6-84

N- 0 - T -1-C-E

THE FOLLOWING DOA-S REPORTS DATED BETWERN

1 OCTOBER 19S8 AND 1 JULY 1964 AND CONTRI-

BUTED BY THIS SOURCE HAVE BEEN TRANSFERRED

TO THE ARCHIVAL REPORTS FILE. DIRRET IN-

QUIRIES TO THE REPORTS DESK OF CONTROL

BRANCH..

3,134,679

3,169,02.8

3174,83%

3,325,450

N.0=T

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

IMMEN FILLETS INI

7268K

PROCESS SHEET FOR OO/C COLLECTIONS

FIN FIELD USE DALY

FOR HEADQUAHIERS

105d4r6

U,9F

WHAT 19

200: 000 !..

8'89/101À 80180

it's lamen!

81 кліко

12224

235 89

181231404

Budaress Asbassedory to U3 and UN Azoess Encent Gorestn

14.8

ATIBARRO

то

00'00).

TIPE OOK

SAMINATEO

a, COMTACT UNarna Tilla (

ти и

• 'Te Harbor

SUBIRCT

Во.

NOUNCK Wena Tille, Orpensatos, sodres

Euraza & Noas

Monu Internailoral ino.

tachlagton, D.C.

# 72684

1e 5-72684

SATRA DISSENINATION CONTROL

THIS NTPORT MAT DE RELEASIO TO

1. 2. 0. 9 0010% ORRISS RETIRICTRO IN BECTION P: -

KULLABID

104.0210 00106028 700 908 1509150

FIELD REMARKS

o tha damn in at an hat hoe,

to the t

0. 4.

AS.18

DELETE

PART &

01 8.9.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

FIRLA OMAICA CASE STATUI

MiS LIPORT ERRAOHSIVE TO IROUIARMRNTA PROM LOPPICA OR ADENCI

FATTON WITHDA DATEI

HI FINAL BRPORT OM TAIS CASA

res!

FORM

7-03

25

USE PREVIOUS

но!

с...

File IL

EDITON

SECRET

:. wire :

ЗВАИСИ • ЗТАТЕ СМІКА

3

180488

---

## Page 22

4-00000

72680

malpin

KOATION 232058

CENTRAL INFELLIGENCE AGENCY

COMPIDINTIAL

COUNTRY BUdAn

REPORS NO.

SUBJECT

SudnneGo Ambaacadons to US and UNl

AbscEs Recost Guvernment Chango 1n

Buden

DATE DISIR.

00-8-322/14577-64

24 Da0 64

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

Ootover - Novaaber 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

October - November 1964

DATE AÇO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

us citizen, uho has close relations vith the tuo sudaneso diplomats.

Ho l8 a speciallot in the publlo rolationa of nou AfrIcan counirloo

with the Us..

Tha Sudanase Ambasendors to the U3 and to the UN are both quite

happy with the rocent change in governuent in their country.

They

strongly discourt Comunist influence and atress the continuity and

stability of most personnal and

of govamment pollates.

3.

Minlater of Foreign Affalra.

President Abboud himsalf vas on soveral

occasions do "fed up" with the aituation that he resorted to the

"Nehru tactles" of absenting himself and threatening resignation. Ho

dd not dato siro the tr Ministers.

Eventually otbero became do

unhappy with the situation that they took It out of Abboud's hando.

The Communists have badly ovarplayed their hand, with a pouor play sas

beyond their real strength.

The fallure of their affort to provoko a:

coup d'etat by announcing vithout foundation an aruy nove to assume

pover, merely dliplayed their weakness and thus forecloned for sono time

at least any possibility of their exerting great influenco.

do It 18 hard to judgo uhleh of the two politioal parties u1ll be viétarious

In the forthcoming alectiona but the odds appear to favor the unMa.

any case, with althor party in power, and with the interin government at

present, every sign points to contiaulty of polley and of stability.

Instrua

t10ns to the two diplomats mentioned are in this category.

Other evidence

18 found 11 thie continuing norual procedure vith routine dipiomatio trame-

ferdi

The new POreIgn MInIaTeT 18 at leaat as prOUS as bla racently

oustad predecessor.

he probably leans such more to the Us.

one

CO

STATE

HEE? YOON!

man shine

set paragrapa.

S-D0

603081

(57+8+88 878865898128

(902.A8iXX 8KA

U DO

PY. REPORE:

NO PRITN A:"05U4??

ES 38722E202

---

## Page 23

SECRET

I'WHEN FILLEDINI

FOR

Fier rinTa

8167+1856

72104

PROCESS SHEET

41913-+

00 di un a

FOR

."

OO/C COLLECTIONS D08 UIKIN

Petto del

7EA0

nasannobel 1046665099440

NUBILI ANO ARIA

RILPASID

Holghuot-Do1ey BookinE Orioniaiion of Philica to Host

§biance, D0705,60 7831/17

138

I'nd

Ouinea/ Ivory Cosst

11P2021

pha nt

SIS.

SEMIRATED

E. COMIACT (MOrRO, TINO, OngIdiznlINa, AAMORA CU "y' HUMIAT

7796018

SUDIES

ARIA

SOJUS DE SOUNCE.

И BOVACE

(Namo, Sille, Orgun-authra, Addrasa os'l' Mustrary

Russurd K. Mous

Neward Ciase & Evari K. Hos& Intornationi, Inc.

Washington, D.C.

/d.h11

5-72.686:1

1. SUB-SOURCE

Nurao, Tuto, Oron/antios, Aitdrasa)

Ario Michealo

Anst to Barard I. Hoos

110605-72-1084

77684

EXTRA DISSEMIMATION CONTROL

THIS REPONT MAY BI BRIPASIO TO

1, 2, 9. 8 BELOT UNESS DISTRIÇILO IN SACTION "Y -»

1 CAPRONIO 1191 O ACCARY CONNET PERTO

2 NARRATO EXTIRMA PROITETE

3 ROGUSIA ACINCHRS FOR 'ÑIS STUCAIS

a 038

FIELD REMARNS

MAY

CAICA SHIS SICTON " NGLLASAULE

D1(11

STIETE

09 &

c 1 3.

ENTIRE

ВОГ ОʼЗНМІМАТУ

_9/J4-47771

120 CHB10M

WH ВАТА ЗАТО ТОРТ

сокажно жіти

12

EDITORIAL DOMMEAT

Hoss ment tonad that a nerber of

tho Cran Bavassy told hin thet

thoro 1o a nou and umiltron codo

B

220

reprosentatlon in tsantngton.

Is that the unassadors of sorolod orlented countries

PLEX

vear their native droas at officaul

CASE

smotions, villo those farorable

to tha lest vaar vestera atino.

713

no eris

SIELO DAIKE CANE STATUS

THIS ALPORT RESPONSIVE TO RIQUIRIMINTE TRONI. POTTICA DE AGRICTI

EXPECT ADDITIONAL DA ORNATION MI TUTTO (DATI

JE''T TIMA APPORT ON THIS CALE

6 8

роки

100

25

v28l

8. а стів!

Il Aeria

OBBOLETE

PARVIONA

BDST0N

EDITOR

SECRET

2

---

## Page 24

7268V

ANG NATION TON INTORM MION PION

CENTRAL INILLLIGENCE AGENCY

Ma. 193 ond 794, tha Montanaton de spuplation el inte

msnase lo un unouttonieil perton in

C-O-M-I-I-D-EnHoT-I-A-I,

COUNTRY OuInaa/IvOry Corot

SUBJECT

REPORT NO.:

DATE DISTR.

00- D 490

3 Jury 1262

Guines to Heat

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE 0f 14 Mlay 62

INFO.

PLACE &

RAIR ACQ. 14 Mar 62

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE, US altizen, public relations apociallot.

n racont wooks hiu firm has been conducting nocotiatione with th

nDassador of vulnes recariing posalumition oi ropissanting tha

country 1n tho U8.

suboruss: Anne Michaele: 51172684

for hla government in the US.

uring one of thece meatinos at the unineen tubesay about 14. Nay o

massalor conte recalvad a telephone cal iron louppouet bolgny, tras

1dent of tho Ivory Coast, In lew York CIty.

The conversation vas con

ducted In French and vai obrioualy a continuation of previous talke

on the seme subject.. The tio men vere discussing ways, means, and destro

ability of persuading President Touré to reduce further hia connections

with the sorlet bloc and to allgai his country vith tho lest.

3o There vas so attoupt on the part of Ambaasador Conto to concoal the

onor of the conversation from In assoclate in hia office.

castly have. taken the call in another room or excused himself tampar

ar11y. It 1o probablo that ho uished to be overbeard.

directly ulta the ambassados during a visit to the us.

doubtedly. 10 that Conte has the ear and confidence of Toure and la the

beat quellited panbor of the Guinean diploratic service, as avidonced

by h1a apposutuent to hashington.

Conte has" indiested to us that Guines 1s not too pleased vith the tupe

and quality of ald from the sovlat Bloc and has come to realize that the

nost stable and significant econonic developuent from abroad sinco

Indepondence has teen the US aluninun installation.

Conte himself

Impresses un as being an African Iirst but very pro-ls and lest.

endo

С-0-П-Ґ-І-ДР-І-Т-ІНІ

LFBI

TATE

ARMY

INFORMALION REPORT

29 AUG 105.2

Group 1

ircluded fron autoratic

doungrading & daclass1i1cat1on.

JArC

INFORMATION RERORT

Vos na do sensoresared to osseatten

оної prajects г

---

## Page 25

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

0O/E COLLECTIONS

4, DUBIRCT ANO AURA

00 a

PIRED

ORPICE

SECRET

(VIVENFILEDIN".

TOM FIELD USE UNLE

вольного!

180₽

m po

72684

FOR HRADUUARTERS USE DULY

DACEIVED

00.0.

Oi CHOTAÇT (Maro, Tillo, Orfanlontion, Addi

Birara X. MoBa

AzaTICan Procotiano, Ine.

H, spunre INamo, Tillo, Ordaniansion, Address or 'Y'Humber

or tenba.. A- 72684

5.72684

TYPE 00-8

DURJECT

1700 10 80

BALCABIN

05 225₴

191 00.98/06

1, DUBSOVACE UParo, Tillo, Dianalantion, Adelenany

EXTRA DIBBRMIMATION CONTROL

MAY

TMIS NEPORT MAY DE AELRABIO TO

1,3, 3. 6 MELOM UMIRBS RESTRICTRO IN SECTION "K→2

LARLEASED

1, AMMONITO LI81 OF AGENCY COMPULTAMTO

АТЛА-ОТІВ ЛОТИСІТА РОД МІВ ВТИДІВО

TIELO REMARKS

TTH/PA/PrOP

Fun OR 1908

Attn: Harrison

those ard the only contes. Hone says that they

mat ba returood. via SharIdan Or Bastioco.

Xoss 10 st111 Intorested in talking to

appropriato CIA representative toother the

d0o1s1on 10 pro as con.

Long - Must be seturnad 1 June 1962

FIELD OFFICE CASE STATUD

THIS REPORT RESPONSIVE TO ILQUIREMENTS PHOM LOFTICE OR AGENETI.

EXPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITMIN DANBI

INS DIMAL REPORT ON THIS CASE

C/s

YES

F. O. CHILE

FIsheridan

но!

FORM

п-00

25

OBSOLETITION VIOUS

SECRET

СНАСХ ТНІВ ВЕСТКІЙ 1Е

DRIETE

о. 4.

18 1

1 8.

2.

DALETE

LOTINR

MUT DINARMIMATED

URPICIENTLO

100 ARNERAL.

DATE TOPPINO MODERN

Y OTHER AOCHELS

CONDIMBO MITA

11

18

EDITORIAL COMMENT

Fud ITFW

418

Dow

PLet

Chae

VILIS

Her

12091)

---

## Page 26

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

DO/C COLLECTIONS

Di QUR'RET ANO ARRA

00.8

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

OT FIELD USE ONLY

• F-72684

YOR MEADOVAC

INS UIE ONLY

DECEINTO

ROSET NO

по к

OPTICE

HA

U9FDAT

BURNER

- !

par

CARE

WUNDED

To Filiat

22491050

811 64 360

03162379952054621325450

tomo-Case 31993 - Avertoen Prosuctiona, Ino.

TYPE OO-E

10|00|48|9041

05/122

SEMINATIO

BUBJECT

17 00 09 80

AREA

11188/0870

a 'CONTACT Manio, Tille, Orfariantion, Aduross ar 'Y' Mumban

Base as source

M. BOURER Marro, Tillo, Ordandearion, Audross oi Y' Numbon

Etard bags

4172684

American productions, Inc.

Haahlagton, D.C.

elie s 72681

1. BURBOURGA (Namo, Tillo, Organiantian, Aedeosss

RXTRA DISBRMINATION CONTROL

THIS SEPORT MAY BE BELLADLO TO

1, 3.8.4

BELOW UNLESS

MRATRICIO IN BECTION "N" →»

ANDROVRO UST OF ABRNCY CONSULTANIO

АУРООЧЕЯ РВУЛЯМЛЬ АКОЛЕСТО

DRONIA PARACES NOR MIS ATUDIE

FIELD REMARKS

Prosso close thls casa for tha

Hanbangton Plald Office

к.

MAY

NOT

ARLBAARO

CHECK THIS SECTION IT DELIASAOLE

DELETE

ORLETE

PART 2

SATIRE

1$ 18

08 8. 0.

0.

MOT DIRSIMINATEO

IPE DATA SUPPITE I BROULARIT

OTHER AdIALISA

OIMES/HIBERALANEOUS

COMBINED WITH

EDITORIAL COMMENT

Fuel to TFW

TLEX 2IZ

CASE.

AMN

I-RES

FILES 418

PIRLD- OTTICE CASE STATUS

THIS RETORI LESTONSIVE TO REQUIREMENTS FROM LOFTICE ON AGENCY.

EXPECT ADDITIONAL INFORHATION WITHIM DAYSI

MILI MIMAL REPORT ON THIS CASE

YES

NOI

C/•

BaJ. Boari dea

EDITOR

FORM

4-00

25

ORDULEDITiONVIOUS

SECRET

212048,

---

## Page 27

4-00000

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLEGIIONS

OFFICE

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FIELD USE ONLY

REPORT

PORWARDIO ID.

но.

10081814

• SUBIICT AND ADIA

section of tornah to socretary faster's chargo, chas

72674

ONLY

IRRITED

BUMSCA

: 00-1

AELRASED

10/11

183

Hut tis

DEMIMATED

CONTACT (Nema, Tilla, (H907

Blica, Adelexes of 'T Naraber)

SOTS9 AB BOLITES

" SUNT. Holavandalla, Addreson Number - 726 84

Hashingtos, D. O

5.726%4 add

RATRA DISSEMIMATION CONTROL

MAY DA RELLASIO UN MEED TO ANOW TO.

APPROVRO LIST OL AGRACI CORDULTANTS

HON U81O AGRAZIRT ION ALZ STUDIES

FIELD REMARKS

о. 4.

A$ 18

DELETE

PART &

08 8. D.

DITORIAL COMMEN

DELETE

ENTIRE

DOT DIOBEMIMATED

отиво ловислва.

о-што/ПСАЛаОс»

конокиваотти

225-

FIELO OFFICE CASE STATUS!

"THIS REPORT RESPONSIVE TO RIQUIREMENIS FROM (OT CE OR ÁGENCT)

TAPECT ADOITIONAL INTORMATION WITNIN (DAYS)

INS FINAS REPORT ON THIS CASE

"1s8dt-1031

FORM

6-38

25

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITION

SECRET

TRAn ESTEA

2

12041)

---

## Page 28

14-00000

:72684

LINFORMATION REPORT

ESNFORMATION RERORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Resction of Norwuch to Secretary

Berter's Change

C-D-N-P-I-D-R-N-T-I-A-B

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00-B-3,163, 193

14 potster 1760

DATE Of

INFO.

PLACE &

VATE ACQ

SOURCE:

tae's of 1 00t 60

Weak of 1 Oct 60

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

US ostizen, publio relations apocialiot.

Source's fira speciallson in publlelty for forelea governments and Indastilos.

3.

4.

5.

During the sessions at the Valted Mations /veck of 1 Oct 60] I was 10

Frequent touch vith Kanlo Asbell Obedemab, the Flnance Minister of Coans,

and was able, I believe, to get the true reaction of President Krang Ilorumah

to secretary lester's remurt lumping lomah with the Commists.

Poedemah tald we that Mormal has no personal regard whatsoever lor

Inmimba of the Cango, but regards him merely as as individual tossed up by

polítical tides - basically "an empty head", dovever, Mermah's badly

phrased rewarks vers intended to convey his rual vlews which are, according

to Goedemah, that the nor countrtes of Africa muit develop strong intional

government, or else they will revert to regional a tribal chaos: Ectures,

tbareton, feels strongly that the united Rationa has solven 1ta support to

the anti-lummbs factland, Just becauss 1t does not Ilke his nor his actlous,

thereby furtberlag a split around the duly Lastallod Prime Minister.

Hurrah's personal resatian to sacretaty Harter's remIX vas One of deep murt

and anger.

In effact, he son feels that "11 the Us does not understand vost

I on trydog to do, to bail with 1t"! During the past year Mormal vas coming

out of his sulk at the Us over bis bed preas on arrests, ote 10 Ghana, but th1

scident has set him back again and bas playod into the bando of the pro

soviet faction in hts country.

tarts vere sade to havo illawah appear on the Dave larzovay television Maor

1th prepared questions approved by bin, to clarity his viors on the positio

of the neutrals. It vaR also arranged for hia to be In one of the future

debates planned by life, is which he could expound on the future role of son-

ATTICan states 1n Africa, This vould be filnod 1n ACCIA, Or apyubAre be

Jabed, vith an uponent agreeable to h1". Obedemah urged both prospects t

Lorumab and vas refused flatly, through general annoyance and pessona

frustration.

An a aldelight to this setter, I also talked to the prospective forelga

Unister of Sierra Isone (upon attaining Independence) and to several Indians

Ul expressed sboc's at the apparent Us lounderstanding of whet the Attican

feel about the importance of strong central soverments li the neu states.

- and a.

С-0-П-F-I-D-В-П-Т-I-A-I

STATE

NAM

FINFORMATION REPORT

DATED

INFORMATION REPORT

LINITED

condonents

---

## Page 29

INFORMATI

REPO

INEO, JATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY..

4.26.14.

"nir trai

COUNTRY

• SUBJECT

Pinanco Molstor Belloveo Inii O1

US$S PELLION U8 LOGN HILl Mir Nenziab

to USER

REFORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

FEFERENCES

CORHECTION:

00-D-3,154,036

26 Septenler Li40

DATE OF

INFO.

13 Aug 60

PLACE &

PALE ACO 23 ANE 60

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE,

Us citizon, putlle rolatiano speciallot.

SOUrCo'O ILIA apOCLULIROn in pulicity for forcion soveramentu and

10du0tr100.

Con tho alxta 1lao of parairapi ase this reporte ronda US$iBl alllion

but should read US$84 willian.

Please unia the correction on your

COpY J

end .

STAPE

160F5 0m

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

NOrONN

UNITED

offrcas produciad NIS adorn

and hidros actrone urrA phare ina montaro autoor sand aralfo

rocarro portonral on share lorm acima duly lorcapt na indrorduals o lo era Dortaly lull-puro emplarros il (lA ABÍ, FBI, Staro ou Dolarso: untosa tho

abrained (arauda pha Astatant Directos for Ceniral fotorania CIA

---

## Page 30

SECRET

(WHEN FILLEO IN)

FOR TIELO USE ONLI

REPORT

MUMAtA

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

100:'C COLLECTIONS

juGa

о 2

FIRADOS MALOtOS BALLONSO LAGE OS UB$5 MILIOS DE

(027020)

CONTACT RaDa Tile, Urorneratora, Altices or 5 Nurabor

Bens as sourco

Barard ki Son a Adderson

r Nanteri

72684

Tomand Chase i Blurend I, Hoss Intonatsonal, Inow

1025 Omnistlet Avento, d. I.

Neartnites, D. C.

11ve: - 122.501

JUB SOUNCE (Namo, Tille, iMpantasion, Altrose

11211

TON HAUGUANTI

- -

11081223144634

1.2

p8(60

STÚIMATRE

48

TYPE ODE

10 80

EXTRA DIBOR MINATION CONTROL

MAY BE MELBASIO ON MESO TO SNOW TOI

LN! OR MOROSY COMSULTAMIS

APPODATO SATIRMAL PROJAÇTS

NON "SIS AGENCIES PON MIS DINDIRS

FIELO REMARKS

untie the baste faste of this

the paroonal tens, talk vitt

Maverib, and s1ft in the party

mule nor be expussend jubllal

y obedomas in ho ostioda

capealty.

AL

FIELO

OffiCE

CASS STATUS

TNTS NEPORT RESPONSIVE 10 ROUIREMENTI TRON COMFICE ON AGINETT

TAPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITHM DATS).

JANER FINAL REPORE ON THIS CASE

YES

NO

others don/,

6-88

25

PANT &

DELETE

RATINE

NOT DIDATI

29886SNU0PI8:8AP8

140049

tonoxa880ь

ПАБАТЕТГАЙТЕНТТІ

09091811OR8CIEA

O1USD/118864191048.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

No Exal

SECRET

• ALYEA

12081)

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

IWHEN FILLEO INI

2OH FIELD USE ONLY

JUAOrETTO

PROCESS SHEET

=.8400149

FOR

.....=

0O/C COLLECTRENS

100.0.

0100.

OPFICE

UMOFI

2..

11912

10b22915302191

P. BUAJRET ANO MTRA

COEa ta oeto ary l "ellanoy, ehler or Bocurtty

Bectros, VII Bocrotarial

O, CONTACT (NaTA, PUlta, UngANtAGILA, AdSTaNe On T NranIonA

BemDa &o ARUrCO

н.

DOUNCE INorA Ila Urgnodoaddora, Adelearo ve

Ä72684

Pablic Balationo

1025 connectieut Aroaus, X.V.

DUD-SOURCE

a 3ouRct Vra Rua, uoamasion, radroa

{-92694°

PUH MEADQUAHTIMI,

IISE ONLY

ATEFINED

Ker Mipeis

(T7811021911.02297

29/20

10302

IUPE 00.8

1?

ЖОТ ДіВ

DININIYCO

brerwrto.Wrwn

veMbtr.orRer

EATRA DIOSEMIMATION COMIROL

DNI NR NRLRASBO OM MARO TO XMOM TOI

APPRONTO I TET I" SURSCO COMOULIADIO

АРАНОЧКО ПУТАТОМ ПХОЛАСТА

MOM.Uea seraiat non us8 aTuBses

FIELD REMARAS

а н.

A8 1s

peLera

08 л. 0.

DELETE

ENTINK

т. о.

ALMUADT

SUTVICIEaTLY

10eG90AAAL

PA OUPPETTO DiOULANET

_IN OrMTO AOLMELT

PwwowrowrrLroneoro

IDITORIAL COMMENT

To toal

166

IRLO OPFICE CAM

WIS WNOIT HESEWITE TO NGOUTE ENIS MAM LOTTEE OF XOTNEVI

ÉiO ADNTiÓNA, INORMATIÓN WITMIN IDAYSI

EIN PINAL ETADE OA IMIS CARE

C/s

Ascolases

FORM

A-J0

25

PREVIOUS

PATOM

ves

D. O CMIRO

SOATON

ponlet

SECRET

Qeamd

2+20-198

---

## Page 32

PROCESS SHEET

ODIC COLLECTIONS

SUOOTSTROTA.

o Lornes

SHAN

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

1:72614

BRKD:150

13

692029911/1/122110110/1/2

HE SCH

FoOd ElOro/JANUaTy BLOCtIONS 10 BarraLa

(20d1a)

COMTACT (Nema, Mille, (munadentlos, Allrere or'M Nurser

Nora da sorence

M. 804968 (Nama Tille, Impantealton, doldren on 'Y' Nurabori

Ervard I. Moro

Rolic Rolatious

1025 Connecticut Averto, 1.1.

+ 72684

162179

SEBIRAILO

40/8r.

SATRA DISSIMIMATION CONTROL

MAY DE MELEABIO ON MERO TO MAGO TO,

о. к

AD 18

DELETE

РАПТ В

DALETE

ХоТія

'IT DIDORMIMATLO

TIPRICIRATET

DOR VAIO AGRACIES POR MA ALUDICO

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMIAT

27EA

ILD OFFICE CA

ITS REPORT SPONSIVETO POURE CAN MAN ONCE ON LOGIE

PAPACI AODITIONAI INTORMATION WITMIN (DAYS).

P'T PINAL REPORT ON IMIS CASE

C/s

res

P. O CHIEH

sacalamna

тОЯМ

4.50

25 UTORIOUS

1 1 NO

RDITOR

SECRET

2120111

---

## Page 33

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

BUdOrIrIO

wwstn

ол.л

SECRET

IWHEN FILLED INI

ON FIFLD USE ONLY

c.

TOKUAKYLY

PIELD

OPFICE

AUNOLY

18.10/17

112622933я

BUDJECI AMO ARGA

nAfcation oe stratrad Mlationa Datroan Covermants e

sana ani trme/ convorsatlou viin tonla A Obedenah

Charaian FLaUICe MlNLStas

(oulnes/Gbans/Ialbarta)

CONTACY (Narae Titta Prpanboatura, A'deraco de"F Nartabars

BEmA aB DOUNCO

BOURCA (Nama Tulia (malntralton, Adilrens of"f' Numaborl

Ichvard I. Masa

Fuollo Pelatjoas

Nes) ComadeE1oU ATone, 5.4. 1A72684

vashington, D.f.

DUD-BOURCR (MIna Iiela irpanesulrax, Toldorco

EATRA DIRBEMIMATION CONTAOL

MAT DE DELBASIO ON MERO TO XMON TO,

APPRONRO IHAT DP AGEMEE COMBULTANTS

А4PRОV6О

40s UtIa

AdenCiTe POR MIS A1U0138

FRaRMARRSO: Senou Touns

Tall, Bousarer Direso

0. 1.

A8 18

PAHT A

EDITORIAL COMMENT

DELETE

ENTINE

а. О.

PIRID OFFICE CASE STATUS

THIS ARFORT RESPONSIVE IC MAOUIRIMINIS IROM ¡OHITCE ON AGENCTT.

TTARCT ADOITIONAL INFORMATION WITMIN TDÀYAI.

TMMT FINAL RFPORT ON TMIS CASE

AACol sman

VES

. o. ehite?,

FORM

4-38

25

USE DRTYLOUS

NOl

ply

SECRET

F-72684

OMLY

1012391

1442792

01811

Do00 Do

1o o astata

10234

NoT Did

BIMINATEO

ADIA

BUBIECT

67.48 40 |80

MOT DISSRMIMATED

TA DITEGUPFITEO AGTUITETT

1 отие. 100ис!.

WueurecrLueoor

соn080 01909

044

2‹20.118

---

## Page 34

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

OO/C COLLECTIONS,

P. AUDIACT ANO ARRA

0о-8

очова!

B

CHAS

SECRET

WHEN FILLED INS

OR VIBED USE ONLY

FORMAROCO D.

869781

Ins!

F. 72684

FOR MPADQUARTENS USE

UNLY

BICRIVED

КРУФТ МО

10g91'9!

2002030102p

1261210898 1647102143143128

802920

TIPE OB-K

19219

SUBJEET

47:40;40|50

C91n 88 57200

M. BOURCE (Nama, This, (regandalton, Address on 'Y Mambon

sinard X. Boss

Publia Ex: 1811020

1025 Canoetleut Avenus, I. I

BUD-SOURCE Naras, fulle (roomestion, Abdres

EXTRA DIASRMIMATION COMTROL

MAT BE RELLASKO ON NERO TO KAON TOS

APPOOVRO CRIEDURE PROMIETA

A, MOM UNIS AGENCIRO 100 DIS STUDIES

FIELO REMARKS

а к

DELETE

08 &

D.

DELETE

ENTIRE

а о.

MELL IRON

VI DAYA DUT

OSMER/MIRCELLANIONS.

COMBINED EITH

EDITORIAL COMMENT

literal mental foul. 300

Odo copy tocr. au:

72.

Kreenies.

THIS A FONTASONGIVE TO REQUIREMENTS FROM ONET ON NEESEY

TAPECT ADDITIONAL INFORATICH WITHIN RATSI

I'' PINAL ARPORT ON THIS CASE

c/s

ASCalessn

FORM

А-D8

• O CHIEI

25 ORIGIOUS

ahat fam a saud

LOREORGE WYMAN

00 l

SECRET

RCH. STAFF CHIES

...."J

2 120-411

---

## Page 35

14-00000

TOP SECRET

SECRET

7 CONFISENTIAL / 22654

wate

"LOBARDED

INDIVIDUAL IN URMATION REPORT EVALUATION

22.255.59.

TO:

TROM:

(+ 83-881-781808dys

Cel: Bin: bark Kreiner 2272 z2e buildina

• CENTRAL MISTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FELD HS.

14188..r

(ot)

! 1)

VALUE OF THIS REPORT

ACCURACY OF CONTENT

1. FILES A FRIDDITY ALIS

OR CONSIDIRABIR DALSS

OR VALUE

OF SLIGHT OR NO YALEE

CONFIRALD

Z. PROBABLY TAUR

3.

POSSIBLY TRUE

DOUSTIUL

PRODADLY PALIE

MPORTANCE OF RICIVINE GUATEMER

MINORIS ON THIS SPECIRIS SUBSCE

DO 1. 09399CIAL IMPORTANCE

2. Dª CONBIDIRADLE INPORIALIE

8. OF IMPOATANCR

& OT SUENT IMPOSTANCE

ALREADY SUFTHIUTLY DOWN

D. NO DATA PIANITTIDS AASRESHRNT

AD INTEREST! NO

CISSE MINATION DISINTO VY

CAHNOT DE JUDORD

Tal 9019141

8.1.1/8

FOR JOUR AFALO ATION IN SECTION LiL EEL.018)

(I1) COLLECTOR'S QUESTIONS TO EVALUATOR

DENou 96595s

D 2NOY 1955

(lI) EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS (USE PASir RRs" UGLEs AS AGeSSarg)

This offloo tas no other talo, mat' on tending to support or confira the rumor

that Romalo alllbo renorod 1n Dis ly 1960 as ambassador to tho Us.

Ints ro-

part li conaldered possibly true inasmuch as reporte of this naturo sso ro-

osited Pros the to tina. Rosulo 18 not considered a personally popular"

figure mith the Philippine government es pooplo,

of partloularly with the

Garoin ad dadstration although his porsonal role in continoing Garole to

aripoot met li gher ocononio aid in ammation with lba president's vlelt can-

not bo giron too much weight.

It is considorod that Garole tao g1701 adequato.

Informatlos about ald possibilitios and that inflatod aspectations vero Garola'a

on taotion to pressure the Us. Romilo's possible replaoement by Romaldes

ornnot to oraluated other than that the lattor is in faror with Garcia, Appoint-

cant of Guaderso as Scrotary of "Inanoo soons doubtful so he 1a over retiremat

agos his relles as Contral Bank Governor 1n fraquently rumorod and "omildos san-

thoRod as a possible suocessor. Roplacement al

of a loss thandly PI attitudo.

(IN) EVALUATOR'S FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS OR GUIDANCE TO COLLECTOR ON SUASCT OF THIS REPORT (Ser: TRies

joraul requirerves s sa folitt, collecsion of injeraalica in reply so gresisons as dhu reinazis sires will be undersaken asiz es

Ноло •

DETRO FORMIACRO

ПІЄЛАТИНА

DEVISION

in. S. Blize

MOCI

arTE

29 dot 69

Eate

---

## Page 36

14-00000

72684

INFORMANON REPOR

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELGENCE AGENCY

marerol contres intormerion aftocr.ng

8-FC-3-75

COUNTRY GUOZE

SUBJECT

FInanca Minister Balleves LAcE el

U0$5 81110n US LOan WIll Tara Slarusca

to UBBA

REPORT NO.: 00- B-3,154,656

DATE CISTR.

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

13 Ang 60

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.23 AVE 60

SOURCE:

THIS IS UNEVALATED INFORMATION

US eltIzen, pabllo relationa spectallot.

Bource's M1ns spaellizes 1s publIcIty fox forelga povertante and

L0dastI100.

I. Koals Asbell Goedensh, the Flesher Mantster of Chens, spart the woak of

T Ang 60 1a Washington, primarily settlag loans for the Valta River projoct,

which has now been sealed sons to a prettical size. Miscussiona with US

afitelala snd bankers led to egreemas ts advance funds for the next Elve

years, at the end of which time the dia vill be produclay porer. Is total

cost Mill be US$l68 Illion, of walch Doms Itself will put up US$lBl adillon.

Tha Horld BBat Will advanco

Us$ho sillion et 5 3/4 percent Interest, the

Devalogaent Loan Fuad US$25 ullllon at ji percent literest.

2.

Goedenah. wanted U8$5 udllion mie fron the DIf because the job cannot be

carried out ulthout It. Faced with a Bp of UB$19 milllon, Goederab, on bla

ous sutbarity, offared lo add Us$li stillon to Chana's contributton by tellng

Il Illllan pis year out os current 10009, Tals, boveres, still lestes the

3.

The Plansce Miniator 18 lendex el Ibe pro-hestera group 1n Chana, but tharo

10 a povertal fastion al high Chaaalers, bended by Sojo BotBlo, Minister of

Africalture, that coutloully urges President llera Maruni to stop deallag

vith the lest and to tura to the 1863.

Condesah feels strongly that 11 be does

sot got the additional US$5 Milllos, be vill not be sole to selitala the pro

Hest position in tha battle, the ground berlag been eut ourt fron under his

fort, partleularly for omarstively ts saall an asourt. He realizes that

this plea to the Us la regularly note ty saall countries seeting ald, bat b

LAPTOBBRU DA AS DALDE SLICETA about Ebe tUA UBeRCy. Of bla Mission 10X

Ghana.

h. He polated out that this folts profert 18 a good beatable ons, and the loes

Mll be pald back out of proceeds sha resultlag pover. He said thet thera

has sever before askad the is for s sickel, 10 sot soy loetlag for a grax

but a basiansalke loss. Eras 11 tba porter ustter falled for sums raespected

reason, the country rould and weald pay the debt. Gooderns poluted to the

tlanal budget unich Increased frus 129 salllen ten jears ago to flos allite

In 1960, all Busa toxot 100.

he GlAsalan Gorerusent bas put 1150 adllion s

lonelopment projects during this period fras current inroma. It has dona se

mirroring, has so external debt, and has soout 1100 i1l11or Invested 1s the

UK. The ecaDasy 1s sovad.

8-B-G-B-BT

& SEP 19:0

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

HAEC

KINFORMATION REPORT

AINFORMATION REPORT

MOTORN

NO DISSEM

Dress nas

patron hanrad to lutt-lione eon

stagons al ClÃ. Alt and 18:

alfred produkind M/S absenanta, and hifher echlans will Phost lonorad

Mol ta de cresa mended to, connuliaara or for pal pro erra ne

raverna porconnal on thore for la actora shuty i

proprend order duate to ane sor mally full lume amfloyee al ClA iêt. PAI Slato or Dolensas arabes 1n

---

## Page 37

7.

B-E-C-R-E-T

DO SORTI/NO DIDIZZA AUROND/LIMITED

•2-0

00-B-3, 164,656

roadranh me protonsily disturini then do talked to so on Il and 23 AuT 60, 190

have known dach enter voll sor a long theo, yet ho bas sever bororo "let ils

hair doun" ss to has do this isitor.

Ho must report to murinah on itiday

carlos, 19 Aus to, regardles the cuccess or fullura of lie alsalon.

Ko talked

by tolepbone so tha Mosidont 11, AuB S0 but did not tell hia about tho

U535 sillon abotage, Beraly saying that there vero atlll a for d1t5lon18

detalla. Normas repilos that corna vould not bo put into tho pasltion of

boseeching the li far the loud - ho vould rethor fire sp tra stole thing ame

turn alsobera. Erasand 10 sure that 15 ho must roport to the Prusiddat thes

ho has returani vithat the additional 11885 allllos, that librasas sell

tedlataly have als socratary call the sortet imbassador.

The Floance Mnister told so that tbere had bees coraldorablo unhappinasa 1a

Ghans when Norma doulded to booone Presldent rethar than rewalulay Prlia

Ministor. Is the disoreloat over tals mong higa party muboro bad bees

alload to bras out, the apposition sould bave exploited the schlua sad tho

govorment would bare fallen. Is conflict was castalued ultin the cablrot.

and at the highest patt lovals, but the tensoness and dangor remela, Moodent

Bald that Nimas 19 se egotiat end sone poverful people do not Ilto blo

B8lI-gl0r1f1c3t10.1

Redesas comented that "Nernh's dayo are numberad" beet

vould not enlarge tortier.

Obedtah 1s convlaend Past 11 the UB$5 AdIllon 10 not corsatted, "1t vill Di

the stron to breat tas carl's back".

Ho does not bon uby the DId veis so

adamant in the satter, but says that "this 1s a question of savlag a country

for the coot of a 5-à7 tortor".

harunah; he assured me, ta leantag sore ana

more anity from the pest, and fallure to got the Lons tron the Us vill flially.

unko the Prosident tura to tho VEER for the ontire snount. The sonlots vill

surely agroe to such sa opportinity, do that the Us position in Chena 18

"hangdog in the balanco" ta the next sou doys. Obedenah le si1ll sopeful that

ho vill bave fivorable vons, before be bea to ruport to lorera la' Accro, that

the US$5 M1l110n has toes grosted, but be does not think this vill meally doe

tO P338.

-DO PORTI

HO DISSIA ABROAD

---

## Page 38

4-00000

XON CHORIS

536-5%

MORM, TION REPORTE

14.00%1

r+5-1449-1-1-457487

+5-142759458N1Xe9D N1R20N79

REPORI NO.

DATE DISTP

NO. PACES

KEFERENCES

00-

& NCT IVO

DATF OF

sariy art 59

PLACE C

KATE NEO PRODY ONE 59

INS: UNCVALUATED INFORMAVION

SCURFE

88 dilAlaura, pabile Malati, 520 spoctallas.

Exo d8 2010490994 tar dis a yours, but siu imarily doen asasgual as cural

20

hen te the t1s'it sorhot into this I bitu tulier too bra sually and opauly

¿toilio cinnatal?a, Diso coutzi, In sa11, 10 aboulataly mandatory at tolo

11an to tratin tibo doriat stato, beat tim jorgala dis not roady far a snea pricer.

LTiMAn$?»r palla, bars that tato 19 8 INor tU 67 and. lo toss Launchod Lato

E2o jerus, sortet llna tbet both ot DaY invelaDente bad bada serlora binodaro,

sui siltinto farther, best sa 1ld ormaat toas tis ulta sonia da Jalalar him

ya kleerter, I anbad dio bm so salaçtod bio instlay satarial an ho tell

is RUNE 1I ADO SATIONS Ol a bask la tho

or 10r all tarsieble, sa 108d tha boss.

sa!1 has estan sta a doope unlarrtandlag as tols parind of 1a blatary tara

wagtiong to lal road, baxas Amarlora posto, malt kattous, le tolt, vas to

8852058, 8 sla tha tadasminal tell desecrasy, dal a man ubo surald hito boar

+001-7-1-0-8-1-9-59401

ADEC 1455

STATE

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 39

14-00000

6-0-8-7-1-D-B-1-T-1-A-1

SO FORM/DO DISSES AEROAD/LIARIER

0020.

00-8-3,183,257

I loamod very l1ttlo of Sualinnoy'a backgroan.. Ha did toll sa that he hea

been bora pad tramal on a fars putadda of Moscou vhare bia rathor pesll ronidas.

Es appeared try ilncera la llu doos aftoction tor his father, ubion in osla

be tiasted at viary opportunity.

He paid kia father lored pootry and lind

bOUTS Of lala JOItA MAMOTIZIDE tLa VOTIe aI fasUre sUrlot

pasta, h1e sisher's theory ballus that one could not seally jovo and underitaná

do country and lls poople ulthous a hoorlodge of blo country's litanture.

Emallador inprasadi do as a all this had a vary doey love for his coustry and

pacplo sa100 and apers to an IdarlogIcal consideratios.

• an.

DO FOR!

00 +8-1091-7-701-401

5O DUBBEN AEZOND

De003

---

## Page 40

106.00

AMINEORMATION AERORT

CUNIRAL NNILLIGA ICE AGENCY

+-+-19-87-83-8-99-8-A-ta

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO PAGES

00-8-3,143,138

4 Nor Sy

2

M.EFERENCES

htpplrpasnta2 +0-00-9-3223330

DATE OF

INFO.

•PLACE &

SOURCE

Bop 59

8op. 59

MITI UNI VALDATAT'

OsTIcer Of a Ul pubilo relationa pira, inich appoialises in publleity for

LATALES BOverImaRto ani 1orustrl0s.

sas beea infonially concultad by tra Irlando cancorod vita dovelojmato

10 tho Mallipplod. Ong to a UB kualanasman of may youre standing 10

tho aros and the other in a Illipio, Uno vas very ciono to fresident

1.

I save been Informad by cna whom I COXBIAoS & TaLlablo source in the

Anallection vita somelo e 8, Romio a recent appourunce in UB nacanino

auToTt 1sonesto endorains tre Lincoln urtonobilo, larola's reaL 2008 se

'fa1th 11 Bouulo cass añtor Carola'a rEsura to tha FallippiDed pros ble U3

vlalt 11 the sumer of 1958 vita sasurenced tron Romulo that considerablo

Os esuiale ald vould bo fartbsiadas 1a the nost future (seo 00-8-3125330 ].

3.

basen lorellod aralast the dercle eindnlotset1on.

Casala 0121 bavo to

nad another saalginant uita sono Inest'De fox banilo la tha pDllippison.

I an lald that the sey anbranador to the Us vill be salando 2 Rosualdos,

trò president of the Fallipploo Hatlouel Deak.

Excavalles sas In tbo

U3 far tbe World Dan' astleps this nonth (Beptenber 1959 Jard I met and

talled with his. I sas very forarably lupredeed vich bin.

tho sned of tha pallipplos doverment tor 80od pucila relations rapresertetioa

la the U3, and has utatol that fards for ruch a publlo relatione progran

aticiald be supplled by tha Coutral Bant of the Pallippines. le citod the

astiñiance which conla ba randered by a compotent Us publio ralationa Issa 1a

Air1alnd the phillipins oreriaent in regred to the preparation and prosentation

of acaponde surveys to ton Innelopment loza suad la suppart al Philipplia

neguneta tor ecopanto ald.

I underotand that somalder avolded my conteot vith the Pollippino Sebassy

Tos Eubanry called hin to loguira voy ho had not vialted

Cha Bubassyl ho sxousad hinaall because of the preas of business natters.

10a real TeRsoD, I underatand, fOT his TAllUrO tO 11B1t tha AsDady vao ble

dostra to eto1d ary esbarranalog astuation or to elvo the liguriaason that

he vas prendering his futura past.

.EC 1953

SYATE

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

MIFORS

ITUm

aines potering N/S abolare, and Delhos e atono ures enore ,cronaliato auppserral deallo

Mol to do diso muratad to consolaara prrarnal promonto de

---

## Page 41

14-00000

C+-+1-8-1-8-8-17-73-7-A-Is

00-B-3,143,433

thrre ooan w1ll ba a soa tluaira Miistur la darula'o rebinot.

E1gzal Cuedoro, Aromor di tira Pari,al link at' the: ihllippinos,

1is nauasd as the suocasecr to las posi.

"n to, trer Guaintno 10 ln on srtreraly imvartant position es

Eiemar of the tentsi Bart, and 18 srjratodly doing an exeollen

jeu.

•ondd .

+03-8-2-0-8-8-9-5-9-1

HO FORA/IO DIBEIRA NEBOND LIDIGUIG

---

## Page 42

14-00000

(o+-4-7-18-83-57-977-0-1

5.198.54

INIOT TION PEPOL LINEORHATION REPORTSA

CINIRAL INTELOLNCE AGHKCY

iaVet W Cala deoo togo lgo ie danmi a bool lo

COPUNIRY

SUBKET

Gultrs/Uhesa /Elberte

Indiretion of 8t19J19d RelAtla20

Dtw533 amprmests of Caros and Ouloen/

Auver'aallon u1th Komla A Obodesass,

prinelini S1n9nc0 Mirloter

MEPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

00-22-3,142,797

19 Ootobar 1999

NO. PACES .

REFERENCES .

DATE OF

INHO

PIACER

Iata dip - art 59

DAIK ACO Jstia 899 u Rat 59

1HIS 1S UNEVALUATED INROURATION

SOURCE:

Un elt:2Aa, publlo ro1at10ns spoclallat.

Asarsia sum epecsalzoa da pulillctty sor sore1ea govanmento and

1ndu341103.

1o I bave been 11 touah uith the Marnalan Enbrasy fOr Devaral soelos 1a

tognurd 1i) the srate vislt al Prouldent Baxon Irure al Ouluou, valab

vill bagda da 20 Octoser 1999. Is Vier or tbo tuct toat auires sa

•2 exDaBay dr curnce lury i NaoniunLca, tr duniied MaURaSY Wa:

tnstrusted by sta govaramant to sonser avory sorvico paratbla to

embapandos 1n118 Diallo os Ortres to Lasuro the Bucocasful otato

vla1t of toura, Tell1, ubo presantad bls credarrtlalo lo tusa 1959

and then returand to Gilnea, com back to the Us only alll ss asvani

wreko apr.. Ht bis been to se tsak almost conssantiy slnos hts

waun to the US, and fran all epperrences, von kast too cuoeanad

vith cuure's sugendlos t2o1t.

• 20

serveral euod propartles ond tilll came dona frua Hion Yoats to tarpoot

thems, Be left uithout matlag, ary declolon, aaftaf, ho vorld be back

again in lock at tho propertioso sruntatle, tse (hanalan Babases

tas beiratag ratber anxlous la rogard to arzosppmiurts for Dours'e

PRBGed nIl IALlI dld not roturzi. The CaanaLAn IntasBy Mas bocoNiag

qatts arxlons, and their teak was doubly bard becauss of Anbearador

@'E Caprnn'a rocall to chesr, (Chayuas's rocall, inelcentally, vas

suppoued to bave boen truperary. I understand that ba uas rocallad

bezouss it van dlscoverad that ho me coniutag vith the palltical

spositlon.1n.Chans.) 109 aunrarscemnit vas ther asdo Beat H11lle

AraTa queD Enla vould bo the una Ambasaader to tha UB, bert Eslm bad

set arrived dur lng the porlod thais the Caanalas Enbadery taa tsylag to

pls dum Inll1 to discuas arrengmnents tox Doaro'8 tlelto 5aa

EaDa1R1 Enbeady ts becantog a Little armoyed.

30

In Jata Septenbor 1999 I diacuasod tols probina vità Gbana's finanoo

MaIsteI, Konla A Condenab, Nho 39a 1n the US Pox lorid sank neetiags,

aad bis insction vas toat ba did sot bellovo tont telli bol fundo do

purabaza an mabesoy pirperty, nnd tast he vas eubaitassed. do a

result co "falll'a unsvallabdlity and the underitandablo antoyanco os

tse GbanoíAn Enbasay a lleasador Bala da blo arTIral In Haabington

INFORMA

N6:0,1,04

1 551?

It ter Ar-duar,

rovorro pora

ON RERORT

XINF ORMATION REFORI

fo ens ,nrol.fomo corrganedlbITED

AAWUInNR eIATE

2110030000

Aoe mraily l ail 8.000

do roo mau no rol do EominattaMPo dn toar nal purorendo on

IN (IA AJY PAl. SPUro de Delones vatoro ibo

Canirai tionarano (1a

---

## Page 43

14-00000

Man 1patru vid to ho pollin do telll und to Tour o party on arrival,

no furliar anuistanca aud lo lot tha t1a1t

fall on dan taco, no to spook.

I ma, martinlons, still intertotal in the there tole from a pro-

Poor'omal stasipoint, and could not ballars that arrangberto vero

I Bento put unt an itinrary on Toure's yalt ob'13 Octobar 105o

I knou tant sonous bod to ba maklay armagato. I leurood that

habanselor Folll has come down trma des tork for ons day tlio vook of

12 October 1939 With a public colntlona son of 011s Matsleson, Dut

that Tolll had not gooo nor the Abrnalan Paloney, I anovard that

Olln Mathloron ma performing tho soroicen offered by the burias

Entanay, I constartod friendo in O1la listlisanon as vas Istorned

that bocuune of their extersive aluminin project in Guines ther

wore handlind, no publicity for the tours violt, for vero thay arrang

Ino, for any otnto suectiona 10 Washington.

@ Frouch-apoutiny decretary to asslot Anhunsasor Telli durine tho

course of lepal transactiono Involving, I an told, is prerchaso of

a vary thes bullding in New York - this wouls taod to aloc-al1t

Obedimb's ms0impt1on that 1u1l1 dla not tavo fun's lor purchase of

an enbauoy 11s wuonlagton - but olin Mathsoson had ¿nos so publlo

2n1est1010 vurk for Tolll. Tolli, I vas intormad, bad requestod

fuble for public rolations tron Prenident Tourg, tat bad received

no reply.

So I thas callod several hotelo 1n Hashington to doterala rbotbor or sot '

any astungemento had boon mula for receptions at saich Touro rould

TRA BAJIlOVAr HOtel la baDd11NA, A Toura receptiOn tOX a

thousabd guests on 21 Octobar 1959. I anked too vas inadliag tho

arrangements fur the rocoption and vas minried to a Counsellor of

regard to toure 'a viilt Immediatoly becano apparent.

In sy opinion!

this deliberato unub of the Ghanatan Eabazay 1s Lidleative of Mexy

strained relations botueen the covermentu si Obara and, luises.

Furtber, Ambasador lalm of Gbana has rot, yor prevented bla creden"

trals, Bo bo 1a 4t111 1n Washlagton 10 Es unattlelal coppeLty. I

an sure that he doss not intond to presunt bis erodoraLals until

astor Touro'" Plolt. In thia vay, do succoustally arolds bolag:......

Identified 10 any o1t1o1al capacity vita sour's thost.

Attor my briof chat with F'ranco Mnistar Chademas et tbo World Bank

mootings, I had dinner with hin the followine week 10 boy York.

Though he does not recolvo the publle rocognition abrard enjoyod by

KOJO DotBio, Olana's Mialator of EconoNiC ITPAITA, GoodEnah 101

rocognized 1n Chana an Nkrumah's right ban van and 20ot latluential

Everything of major Importasce duns by Marunah bes been

discussed vith Gbademan, and has bla approyal. Ho has Incruman's

ranpoct to tha point uhore lie lo apparently quito lodependent la sla

actions, This vas illuotralid to ne 1a our dlscussica of tha mooting

0S ARTICAL LEAdOTE LUSt AULETS 1959) 10 LIberIa.

According to

abodesus, ho bad otrungly adv and agalnut strumas 's atterdance at

thIS CODLOTONCO ADI INN ILALLY TOUSEd tO ACCOLPALY IDA. @bodctua

said that the costorenco vus a mafor sot back for foruzib, view

Maruna 's drown of Africun leveration bud bean successiully punc-

tured by Preaident Willian Tula's moderation polloy ard urgingo

that any final decisions de dolayod until ihe sext sectiog 1a 1960

vian ths leadoro of nou salepunleat Africn atates bould ba present.

Frusident Toure or Gulnua • supposally lederaled Vita Coans - aup-

I told Gulcuns I founi tuls burs to uolcritand an

andad bly for lia parsonal opinlon os lowns.

I to ansoyed at bio

roply, "or Obidewal, thoush u direct aud Irank 1ad1Tläual, 18 sot

elvin tu suetna desoratory stutomatito about oraer leudo or stato.

•Gbedeman sa dof Toure, The annid.rook, a desagoguo dod an

opportunior"

: 410505.18

С-0-N-*-І-D-Е-П-П-І-А-I

NO DISH ALOND

LIMITED

---

## Page 44

4-00000

+- 98-9-78-8187

F-13684

MINFORMATION REPOR

KOINFORMATION REPORTA

¡LiNTRAL HSLLLIGEINCE AGENCY .

COUNTRY

SUIS HECT

Jaxi LA

o i Embay and Calezitts Food Riotel

Jantry Plactione In EsPala

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00-3-3,1632142

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE:

822.52

IMIS IS LINEVALUATED INFORMATION

U3 01t1ren, rible slations spectallat.

source's flea spenlallass in pubilalty for toralga goverments and

10d 45t5100.

I talled 11th Fluse Alalater Horax, 1 Bunchhod 11 Dasal on tha oresalon

1 bis 7101t to the la fux the lor.la Bank unetings In Sen 59. Dosal,

Who was tormerly. Chist Hunlatas of Bonboly, and ls presently Jamberial

Behal'a right band, tald m that the Intian overwent had conclusire

prut that the ferent, food flots In Bombay ani Calcutta ware cormulat-

105p1red.

Pallure Di food sizers to declina 1n Bambay and Caleutta

Then Indis bas juit barrasted o sumper tnod ETUp, do sale, mas directly

attributablo to cumulat astiriturs la tha laining ares villager aroua

the tHo E1t108. Comanot astEssurs bara convinced the farmary that to

quard serloat day fixed abortam In thar illages best your I9607, and

to lusure higher juices for this crops then tbey do sell, that tha

crugs sbould dot la sent to they citien for marbating.

This, according

to Donal, gulta naturally sarcod food purless in the cities to somala

at a high lovel.

The tramnist agitatrid then Inalted and orfantsed

, the tota in the cities agalist the high cost of food.

2. :1 arkar beasl sout chants tos communist party sed of returning to povex

.In kerala vias elections are bald ln early 1960.

His toply was that the

commieta did not stead a chassa of so-alactios, that tha pooplo of

Torals vara cumplotaly d1s111us10nsd, and unier no alreunstancas mouli

nota for the suturn al a consulat soverent in sonali.

4 DEC '059

c-0-178.

INFORMATION REPORT

MEINFORMATION REPORT

Il once compose Irso

antron pressesan il l10 or desserad Mlero hee bear, ablained Israul

---

## Page 45

4-00000

SUBJECT

tch

ORMAN ON BE

AVEORA

LATION

CENTIP-MITELLIGENLE AGENCY

72:54

REPORT

C-0-П-3-I-D-B-N-J-I-A-L.

REPORT NO

anandorite

H1104

GlencKin

00-8=3,173,797

Ixieatlon of Strained Palations Between

DATE DISTR

dovermants o° Chans and Culeca/Conversation

vita Ronla A Cadcana, Oberalan Financo

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

Late Sop - Det 59

PLACE Z

DATE A'C- Tato Sop - 0ç$ 59.

retype

Us citizen, yublle ralatiom apacialist.

BOUTCO's fITU EDeCialIZeS In pubLicity for foreton govermanto and Indiatrles.

STATE

1. I have been in touch with the Gbanalen Embassy for soveral seeks in regari to

the stato visit c? President selor Tourel of Guined, which ulll begin on

26 Oct 59.

In thou of the lect that Gulden has no embassy or chancary la

Vashington, the Chanalan Imbassy was instructed by 1ts govermant to fonder

avery service possiblo to Anbaasador Diallo Tella of Outnas to Insure tho

successful atate Visit of Toure. Telle, tho presented his credentials in

Jua 59 and than returned to Guined, came back to tha us only air or seven

recks ago.

He has been la lew foris almost constantly since bia retura to

tha Us, ard Sion aLl apparantes, vas not too concerned with toure's impondlas

20

Entisg done public relations sork for the Chapalan Embassy in tha past, thay

contactod sy firu to ansist them in locating appropriate real estate 12

Washington 1ox tha Embassy of Guinaa. la selectod several good propartion and

Pelle cars doun Iron now, fori to inspact them.

a loft without making a

decloon, saying ha vald: be back again to look at the properties. Maanhile,

the Chanatan. Embassy vas biconlug rathar anclous 11 regara to arrangemento for

Toura's v1s1t, and Telle vas apparently unconcerned, lesulag so lastructions

sor Tour's ltinerasy unile la Hashlagton, no arrantonelta for saccytione, oic.

Pella siuply laft, saylay he tould be back. Tima passed and Tello did not

return. Tha Ghanaian Embassy was bocoming quite anxidus, and tbair taak vas

doubly hard bacause of Arbassador CH Chapman's recall|to Ghans.

(Chayaan' o

recall, lucidentally, was supposed to bave been temporaly. I understand that

he was socalled because it ras discovered that ha tas conniving with the

pol1t1cal 09poz1$102 12 Chars.) The announcerent was than bade that H1lllen

Marion Quad Halm would ba ibe not Ambassador to the US, but Halm had not arrived

during the parlod that tha Chassian Embassy vas tryjag to pin down falle to

discuss arrangements for Toura's whilt. Tha Chaaim Endasty vas bocoming a little

amoyed.

30

In lato Bey 59 I discused this probley "rih Chana's Flnance Minister, Komla A

bedanah, who was in the Us for Horld Bark neetings, and hia reaction was that

re did not ballave that talle bad funds to purchase an embassy proparty, and tbat

ba was embarrassed. As a result of Telle's unavallablllty and tha understandablo

anzoyance of the Gbanalan Embassy, Ambassador Hale on his arrival in Hashington

vas Instructad to be polite to felle and to loure's party on arzaval, but to

attempt to five no furtbar assistance and to let tba vialt fall on lts face, so

to spaci.

C-0-F-7-I-D-B-#-T-I-AL

0.

MATI

REPOI

FO

AMATION REPORT

A manaton to do tall come amphorce CidDSM Alland, Mishn Slots and Dolenco in eno intellidence companente.

---

## Page 46

С---І--1-1-А-

NO FORTIO DISSIM ABROAD/LILTED

' 2.

142,727

13

I un, ravertheless, utill interested in the Touro viast praa a profevalounl

etnnduoint, and .couid not ballere thit arrangesentu vora not buine rudo to tuto

car al rura's party.

when the Department of State put out an ltinerary on

Tourc'a visit on 19 Oct 53, I loer thuit someone bad to bol making arrangenents.

I Inarnor that Andasandos Tedle had come down fron Hov Yotk for one duy thy leak

05 22 O-t 59 with a puülie relations man of 011a Mathloson, but that Tollo had

not gone noar the chunlin inbasey. I assuned tiat Olln Mathlenon was performing

the sorvicos oftored by the alausian ambassy.

I contacted frieudo In Olin

Mathleson and voo inforned that because of their extensivo aluminum project 1n

Oulnes, they vere extending uhatever assistauce and courtesy they could to Tello,

but that they were handling no publielty for the foure vialt, for were they arranging

for any state functions 1n hashington. O11n Mithleuon had suphlied a French-

apoaking secrotary to assist Arbuscedor Telle during the coursal of legal trunsactions

involvlin, I on told, the purchase of a very fine building in lidy York - this

vould tent to discradlt Gbedenah's sasumption that Tolle did not hnve fundo for

purchnso of an embausy In Hashlaston f- but 011a Mathieson had done no publie

relationa vork for Tollo.

Tello, I wua Informed, had requested funds for public

ralations from Prosident Toure, but had incolved no reply.

5.

I then called several hotols In Washington to determine whether of not any

arrangements had been made for receptiond at which toure would be host.

The

Nayflower Hotel 10 handling a Toure reception for a thousaid guesto on 21 Oct 59.

I asked who was handling the arrangements for the reception and vus referred to

a Commsellor of the Ilberian Embasay.

The reason for Ambassador Tello'a disregard

fox the repeated and frautic Inguirles from the Chanalas Embassy 1n regard to

Toure's volt tumodintely became apparent. po my opiaion, this dollberats amb

of the Ghanaían Enhassy 18 Indicative of very strained rolations petrees the

goveriments of Cbana and Aulsea.

Further, Ambassador Haly of Ghans has not yat

presentod his credentiala, so ho ls still in Washington in an unofficial capacity.

I am sure that ho does not Intend to present his credentials unt1l after Toure's

u181t. In this way, he successrully avoids being 1dentiflod In any official

capacity with toure's visit. I do not bellove, however, that any open rupture 13

1mntnent betwean the two goverments. It would do Kwame Nurumah's dream of

federation no good to have the firat African state with which he has formod a

federation blou up in his faco, I belleve he vill bido his time unt1l the next

meetlag of the heads of African States 11 Ilberla next your 1960.

6.

After my brief chat ilth Finance liaister Obedemah at the World Bank meetings, I

had dinner with hin the following week in New York. Though he does not receive

the public recognition abroad enjoyed by Kojo Bots10, Gana's Minister Of Economie

Influential adviser.

discussod with Goodenah, and has sis approval.

He has Nagmah's respect to the

point uhere he 1s apparently quite Independent 1n bis actldas. This vus

Illustrated to na In our discussion of the meting of Alrican leadero lagt suumar

1959] 1n Liberta. Accoriing to Goedemah, he had strongly advised egalnot Normah's

attendance at the conference abd bad flatly refused to accompany. Illoruman.

Gbedents said that the conference was a major set back for Nicrumah, where Akruman's

drean of Atrican Federation bad boen succesafully punctured by President w1lllan

Tibman' a moderation polley and urgings that any final decisions be delayed unt1l

be next meeting in 1960 when the leaders of new independent African states would :

President Toure of Quinea • supposedly federated With Ghane • supported

I told Goedomah I lound this hard to understaud and asted hin for bis

personal opinion of Toure. I vas annoyed at his reply, for Gbedenah, though a

alrect and frant IndivIdual, 1e not slven to making derogatory statements about

fbedenali sald of. Tolire, "I'he man 1s a crook, a demagogue

and an opportunist".

• and o

FO PORE

6-0-8-}-І-Д-Е-І-П-І-А-I.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

LINTED

---

## Page 47

14-00000

PROCESS SHEET

FGR

09/C COLLECTIONS

SUBJECT AND ARRA

ОТНЕЯ

C-C-ä-F-J-D-K-N-T-I-4-

BIY.I

122101

¡ORMELO USE ONLY,..

REPORT

Di

DAr

iiz

229406 25 8

Indian Antanandor to ls Booking Cabloat Poot Tarough

Abt1-U8 5t0t0707t0 (lolls)

CONTACT Warne, Tille, Orguinloation, Nadress er -Y" Number

BAN ad DOUrCE

FONTIN

pI.r

TA61i

CAPTRE VEL SAI

2001

21127 27 211

1062613103925

RELLASIO

10T5EM

11.080

то олг.

2035/20/2720/20/40/012/00

TYPE On A

алатька, мл-я."

PUBLICATICIS.

0625%

SEMINATED

BUBINCT

17-50|50

AHTA

06955|51

Publlo Folatio

1025 Connoctieut Averaza, H.I.

Hashington, D. C.

1 SUD. SOURCE (Nama, Tille, Orsunisation, Addreca)

EATRA DIBSEMINATICA CONTROL

MAY DE RELKASLO ON NERO TO KNON TO.

1, ROPROVED LIST DA CHA CONSULTANTS

2 ASPROVEO EXTERMAL PRIQUACTI

FIELD REMARKS

NOT DISSEMIMATEO

0. к

AS 18

DELETE

PART 2

07 8. 0.

DELETE

EMTURK

8. 0.

TOO DENIHAI.

DATA

OTHER/MISCELLANEOUS

• D COMORRO WITH

D. CORNEATTO TO

EDITORIAL COMMENT

on catinetia; etia.

Ten it in prend

т.а жи,.

L

zosboridan

FORM NO.

I FEB S6 25 USE PREVIOUS EOTIONS

---

## Page 48

4-00000

PINFOR

(7:8 004) :501-490

726.-511

TION REPORT

INEORM TON REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

iterage loses, tirlo

INUNTRY India

SUBICT - Dedien Andannador to IS Booking

Cabinet POsE Through AntI-UB Statemanto

KEPOKI NO.

DAlE DISTR.

NO PAGES 1

REFERENCES

00 - 873,133,728

6 JuLy 1959

DATE OF

INFO.

22 Jun 59 and darllar

FLACE &

DATE AÇO 82 INA 59 and Asollar

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION:

SOURCE: US citizen, publie relations speciallet.

Source'a firm specializes in publicity for forelyn governmenta and Industries.

1. Indian govarment and bustness Miaitors to tbe US have bean aghuet la recent

vocka at the anti-us statemnts of the soy jodian Ambassador labomad all o

There Inclula charges egalast Us ablpuents of arma to inicotan. The

Indians feel that tha Ansasaador 1s being highly undiplomatic and cannot.

balleto that be la acting under orders from bone.

On 22 sm 59, I talked with an Important Indies ladustrallat, uho formerly

sold o higa post In the Indian Govarment and 18 quito close to Javaberlal

Hehru. Ho tald se flatly that the Anbassador 18 following an Independent

Iins and 1s not under labiu's lartructions, although it say bo possiblo that

he bas tacit consent to procood. I recalrid the Impression that the Indlan

loversment 18 not too happy vith the altuation but has not yet Inotructod tho

Ambassador to desiot.

Nehru l0 alvays Inclinod not to Intartem vita blo

diplocatic ropresestat1n9s unless thay set cosplotaly out of 1100.

3. My Inforwent sald that he taluke the raal reason for the mabassador's sctlons

10 a personal ans.

chagla probably nacognizas the fact that bo 18 ono al

the last of the old Mualln loaders rhose careyr dates back to the figtrt for

Indopendence. At that tire ha vas a atrong supportor of Mohairsid All Jinana,

out brake ilta Jinnah ubas ba supparted a partition or Indla lato tro.

separate countrles.

Chagin then joined the congress Party With lebru so

becana tha Cales Justica of Bonbay, Mor, be bas polltical ambitions for a

Cabloat past. Is 18 mailag the brash statementa primarily for boma consumption

to accomplish bla desira.

A. I ves also sold that the Ambersador 1a trylag to take credit polvataly fox

tba fact that the Us congress bas novod to sand loss arms ald abroad.

• ?? AUG 1959

a-0t-2

UNAVT

INFORMATION REPORT.

INFORMATION REPORT

N7008Y

Du donna are to ta ma rate a Co IS 190 a Sero and Deans co ena realiano conson INITe

---

## Page 49

Coт3-;-1-15-11-1-174-1

NO FORE NO DIES : M9U/LODE

TIELD

OTENCE.

3

CAT!

114441

MININGS

126.84

POM MEANING. TURE USE OILY

RECENTU

FENNET MIS

PROCESS SHELT

09/E COLLECTIORS

BUBILT AMD ARRA

00.0

OtHER

wit.

'.

14:18,

Bonzo:

PrOpORed COMPaTOnCE on SOTLOt FUrAlAN Economle

AVA 1/04674

HELIATED

M8:1,01.1

24|181

2/ara 1000430p4

TYFE DO A

NOT (H9

SEMINATED

ВеРОНКО 111не"

AREA

a CUNTACT Wame, Tilhi, Diarinalton, Addrora on "T". Vacal

Advard K. Noss

Publle Barations

1025 Commertient Anecuo, M.4.

Hannington, D. C.

M. SOURCE UNamo, Tille, Organicasion, Addrezs or Y Menatory

ti--

1 SUB. SOUNCE Wama, Illa, Argustortion, Addrass)

DITRA DUSSIMIMATION CONTROL

MAY BE RELLASED CH MLED TO KHOW TO

1 AMDONRO LISI OR CIA COMME TANTA

ANTHOVLD EXTERNAL PROJECTY

NOT. LC ACINCILE FOR MIS STUDIES

MOD' ALHARKS

141746

1e.

NOT DIDLMINATED

AHITOT PANINIT

а x

AS 13

DELETE

PART?

OF & D

DELETE

ENTIRE

S. D.

TOO GENIRAL

2. ONE 34L115

DATA MINP ARRANT

OTHEN MISCILLANIQUS

CONDINED WITH

COnVENTIO TO

EDITORML COMMENT

Copy

as.

E PP/EAD

H4 -5566

F. a CHIEF

FORM NO

I FIe SE 25 USE PREVIOUS cOrnONS

(N7 Shepare on sir co

2°

---

## Page 50

4-00000

PROCISS SHEEI

SUir.TETEN

#+-3+7-1-1-111-1-1-1-1

ТО FOTS/ 39 DLEI AA NND/I20YDE

EYOR NOSRTTCNT

, Го

nl: + 1039-196

172684

LOUA1991.

pax!, li1te

Ân ma L c

00/E COLLICTIAS

200l

D020 200

BDOIGL

"rltN

SUBJECI ANU ANBA

Boclal1et loader'a Vleus on Iuportast Ineres to Lisdia

(10d20)

CONTACT Wame, Tllo, Orsanusalko, Atérca or T" Numbon

iASF

t3' 10 89r 5

19191291798)

Xa:4:/29/3102919

ТРінА

1ISLRASII

u:56#

sn Toar

27.1n133 40 41 42 1394

06/.59

45

SEMINATED

CAnO AS BOUTOS

119 2.1

Сетя нен

п, 0199470).

+20n: 919469

's 15, A.15T

17, 48.69;9,

AREA

5 (52/55/85

somart K. Mose

Tielo, Orgunlonlions Acklreso or "Y" Nursbor

•Publle folatfano

1025 connectieut Avosio,

2.7.

A72684

VaBbIIAstOn, D.C.

l SUB.90UTCR (romo, Trela, Orsantoultur, Aoletreas)

EXTRA DISGEMIMATION CONTROL

NAY EX RILLABEU ON NLEO TO KMOW TOL

1, RAPDONTO UNTT ON CLA CONSULTANTE

А. ЛУРХОЧКО EXYANMAL PNOJE

FIELD RIMARKS

0.к.

AS 88

DELETE

PART 2

07 5 0.

DELETE

ENTIAR

S. D.

UIE

DST UT-ANIMATLO

TUEIRNY SNTZSTNTLY

Le rséi 1710n...

IEIERGNY

PJANCNVASTALIANNIONS

CSXEHONED UMH

A. RFASTENTED 1S

EDITORIAL COMMENT

neales,

EDITOR

fit

crs

F. a. CHIEF

315h951dan

тоям но.

IFEA S6 25 USE PREVIOUS EOMTONES

Dae V. yrebai?'el

2°

---

## Page 51

14-00000

72684

CIN ORMATION RECORT

NFORMATION rEFORId

CENIRAL ITELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY INd'O

SUBJECT SOCIalIDE LaadOr'8 VIaNs On IMportant

Issueo to Indiu

CO-I-M-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-I

NEPORT NO

DATE DISTR.

NO PAGES 2

REFERENCES

00 - 8-3,132,019

19) June 1959

DATE OF

INFO.

4-5 2108 59

PLACE &

RATE ACQ4-5 112X 552

IMIS IS LINEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE 15: 1261, Millen Thile sentellite.

¿purce'l Ilin specializes in publicity for forelon goverments and Industries.

1.

During a conferenco in the US on loilas conoric devaloprant on 4-5 May 59, I

bed sevoral opportunities to tale informally with the Indian Eoclullot Party

loader, A Mehta. Under queitioning, be told ue that tho socialist, Party

actually colncides almost 19 perceit vith the beliefo of the lichra covernant,

but disagices un aspocto of polley ad adviniotration. In eftect, his 10

just another "opposition" party.

Ecclalion 1n India icano equallty of

opportualty and not too great a concentration of wealtfriin anyone'e bauds. He

pointed out that ho 10 tor privato enterprise and used an un ércryle the fact

that ho persuaded tho Indian Coverrest to set out of the fertilizer businosa

and permit 1t to do handled by private enterpriso.

He believes thet busineas

onculd do the Jobs for which 1t 18 carable and the goverment budle those 1t

carnot.

2.

At the thne of tha Miboten revolt, he deranded that. Is 'in'"'"

polley assinst Communist China.

ToM, ke 1a Glad that Nehru did rot do a Fle

because the Prine Minister know that any such nove vould jeoparulzo tice flight

of the Dala1 Inna, which he bad bees privatoly informed vas then in progress.

Veinta adder that the Ilbotan Incident has had noro effect on Indled public

opinlos than any event alaco Independence.

The people at all levele are deeply

shocked. He agrees that the Indian Coverment must saintain 120 position of

Don-sl1gasent officially, but the people and public servants ces cortinue to

have strongly anti-communist sentiments.

India 10 at lart aruused to the darger

of corunlen, which 1t was sot at the the of the distant hmgarlau repression.

3.

He felt that the aituation 1a Kerala State was prinarily because Of a "botca"

by the Congress Party.

Be thought thet the communists von the iritsal election

ecause the people voted 1s protest against the Congress Party, tuey vers so

communist ayupatbizers but vere nerely alsgusted vith the goverruent. Coummist

sUCCEss the socond timo vas traceable to much the same situation - secend rate

Congress Party card'iates add Ineffective policies.

He 18 certain that the

comunists cansot lung remain 1s pover 1n Kerala 1I the Congress Party Will put

up good people.

During these statenents, 1t was obvious that, thougx on anti-

corrurist himself, Mehta vas not particulerly concerned over Kerala.

regarded 1t almost as an example thut elective depocracy la cctually worilng 1n

India.

lebta 1c concerned over lielru's drive to luplement the new cooperstive farning

plan.

Be afrees that Indla must Iscrease fur IDE production but this plan w1ll

not be populer. Anything which aifects peasant c: - sip of lurd cannot set

C-0-F-F-I-D-Z-I-T-I-A-L

ASC

REBORT

STATE

INFORMATIO

NOFORN

poonna personnel: 188-188 10109 008900 duis

nelson ser muanan al 190 ordinaleno alloco A=a

AARCAD

AMON

SPORTS

LINITED

18".19: 50084080180188

Mart th

---

## Page 52

4-00000

5.

6.

C-0-18-4-1-D-7-8-7-1-A-L

HO POSA/DO DISULA ABIDED/ LILOTTED

•2..

10:-I-3,137.,91')

guine lo india.

Be cumented that the lestleg soire dos nurder in irdli in

dispute over land teruro.

Be thiake tre't soes sort ut narkoblog, cooperati'

vould be more effoctive.

to Ma DOst anXIOUa fOI a reconcillatlon betueen Isliu and pakiaton.

that thia was ineritable but, ahould be very acon. dillo 1n the U9, to Las a

quiet couferenco with tao Milntaml Antassados un this subject and told se tust he

Iraquautly mies tripa to Pukistan isall, to talk to lta lowlera, Mehta lelt that

Nebru uay be coming around to arop lis personal aut1-pakiston feelires, volca

vere irought about largoly by vhat he corollered 111 uas by puklatas at tbe

timo of the Kashmir crinio.

Ashta alss belteres tant the Mbetan revolt bas sude

both the Indians and Pellatant nors consclous of the lact that they must zet

togother to solve their problena, : !!..l:.:.

Mehta ugreed that the west had takez the correct stepo in the cold var to cortain

cosmunlot night and aggresalos.

Honeyes, ke did thirk that there must be arms

method by which the straina of the cold var coula bo relaxed.

gist

it is li

С-0-й-?-І-Д-Е-Ц-Д-І-А-L

NO FORN

IU DISSIM ARBOAD

LIMITED

---

## Page 53

14-00000

C-7-H-5-X-9109n931

WUSSIATIO]

PROCESS TEN

00:C COLLECTIONS

1E: 2ORMR00s0 à

B:

227191

•. GUDIYCE ANO ANTA

Ballar that AmbouRnior FOulO 1E MsIN CaUse Of

Maunderatandinga vito us (Patlippinos)

O. SOMTACT INarse. Tute, Copan

SADe As sOUrCe

vi*S

12684

RES HEADOUA

10 3/532109911903103

DIS

RICOND

Me: 85

222

RELEASEO

мо.

00 11 13/12/19

ПЕРЕ СО-8

-tha. 1171

107

HOT OTEO

EUNJECT

BREA

M. SOURCE (Nave, Tule, 0.

o 'Y' Number)

Atr. Edward X. Mas

Public Polations

A. 7.26.84

102) Connesticut Avenue, H.W.

BUB-SOURCE Name, Jule, Urganismelon,

wantaton, Do Caro

ANY OTTA DISSOON HOW TO ROW TOL

APPROTO MUOTA CONULTANT

"portune, moder

MON INC ARRACINS POS MIS STUDIRS

FIELD REMARKS

о. к.

AS 15

DELETE

от 8. В.

EDITORIAL

COMMENT

DELETE

ENTIRE

S. D

MIDI BUATICIANTLY

AT DATE TUPPATIO ARGUETR

s aol waluatio

LOTTEORGE WIMAIN

BRANCH - STAT L HIKE

I NOV SO 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

I NOV Be

2(20-011

---

## Page 54

4-00000

LIN ORMA TONI-PORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CONFITRY

SARJECT

Philippines

Aguessader Romilo the Main

Coice of iilsunderstardings with US

С-0-П-Р-І-Д-Е-П-T-I-A-L

*i lO87 110.. 00-

I-3,225,330

DATE DISTR.

20 liar 59

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

Guide 164 - PHL

!

DATE OF

INFO.

24 Feb 59 cod eerlier

PLACE &

DAlE ACO, 24 Feb 52 aid crlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

Officer of a US public relationa firu, thich specialized in piblicity

for foreiga goverments and industries.

has been infomally corsulted ty two friends concerned with developments

1n the Philippicer. One 1s a US bucineseran of vary years starding 1n

the erea and the otter 18 a Fllipino vao was very close to President

Hagsaysay ard his adainistration.

1. Tro friends of idse, who are in close touch with dovelorents in the

philippices, are nost concerned about the prescot straiced relations

etween that courtry ard the US. Oco 18 a US bublnesthan vith mary

rears' expertence in tbe country ail the other 18 a Fllipino uho wai

very close to President Magsaysay ood still hes important polítical

connections with the Garcia regame.

2.

They have told and leirly corvinred me that the rain cause for the

I1tt betveen the countrles is the Philippine Inbassador to the US,

Carlos fomilo. I could not belleve this at first because it seered

to be so completely out of character.

So ihe story 1s that prior to the arxival in the US 10 June 1958, or

¡TeBiGent CArLOs Garcia, Donulo had been forwarding bessages that a

substartial US loan vas a foregore corclusion and be could personally

arrange 1t, in effect by a few telephone calls.

After Presidert

Garcia reached Hashlagton, Romilo told hin thst he had the commitsent

for US$100 idllich, which vas sot trie. Ats secting with President

Elsenbover, President Carcia mentioned the Leeds of the Phllippines

and sisenhover replied 1n general terns about the US desire to be

helpful. Tais Gercle Interpreted as conflIcatioI Of Rosalo's

statement about the laaz. Garcia cabled bis goverment to thir

flect and also nade statemento to the press at the thee of b1l

4.

When the loan vas not Porticowing, Garcia becaue bitter and was

strergthened in his bellefa by further aislecding cables fron Romulo

that the Us was not living up to ita agreement, that be was workirg

on It, etc. It vas pot unt1] Carela vent to Japan [Decerber 19587

and tad an opportunty to talk to my Filipino fIlecd tbat be got

the true state of affairs. Bs asked my irlend what tes happening in

the Us and vas told of Rolo's activities.

C-O-H-F-I-D-E-N-T-

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

JAIR

INFORMATLON REPOR

NFORM

LATION REP

МОРОДЯ

LIMITED

and. arthra Staro

LIMITED

offoon prodorend MIS alorente, and Audror or Atana Mi11 erase i maradiaro suppurrene aralle

One 8u to diasessinared so runsullante arterna! i boris on

---

## Page 55

14-00000

С-ДН-Р-І-Д-В-П-ЇІ-А•

NO PORE/DO DISSON ABSOAD/LINITAD 00-5-3,125, 330

• 2. 0

So Poo, Carrio 10 1s 8 d1lemm.

been essen in by hia own annasador, elouis he coar out with we truth

and sato trailo the scaperont. Thia la a position he cannot tito

esthers further reutening his ova anaty admintetration. Furtini,

Garcia curtai fIre or renote fonulo, vithout the nacessary explunation,

oncause li mould then uppear that do had given in. completely tu his

antsals tactins by removlas the best Fillalso frlend the US hao bad

by prond secord.

6. My slesdo usy that Romulo bas resortod to these desperate tactica

Desass la doors that sary of ble countrymen visa dim renored.

does. Dot slab to ratura to the Philippines add does not vant to Jose

als sxarsesdorad.p.

kor this reason, he has continuad to fabricato

as to aislead his ors governient and to jostor the difficuitien

betvers sha too countrles. My Irlendo are convinced that romulo must

but tel- vies 1y the long one.

ears and the problems betwoen the US and the philippines, which ar

argely nisunderstandings, must be solved before it might be too lat

for the sert administration to repair the danago.

eDd

!

-о- 000.0.....

FO FORS

HO DISSEN ABBOAD

---

## Page 56

14-00000

TO:

ГОМ:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

INDIVIDUAL INFORMATION REPORT EVALUATION

Kiss M. Kreimr

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINCY

VALUE OF TIS LiPORT

FILLO A FAIORITT MILD

OF CONSIDERADLE VALUA

"]..

OF VALUK

¡J A, OF ALIONT OR MO VALUE

17 8. ALARAOT SUNFICIENTLY KNOTIN

J• NO DATA PCRMITTIMO

1" 1

NUADINA

ALCUMACY OF CONTEST

)s.

PADDADET TRUE

FISHLY PRUB

Lowerrut

8, PROPRALY PALES

CANNOY DE JUDONO

(ELA 156 ENTERIS BASAS PON DON'N ISALLATION IN CRETICS 11S 111011

( 11) COLLECTOR'S QUESTIONS TO EVALUATOR

=I CONFIDENTIAL: 7:27.54

DATE PORNARDED

3 Narch 58

FIAORT DO

W-i 3, 125,322

DIRLO NO.

C (HEP) LBOOL

HRSGETAIICE OF RECEIVING FUUTHER

HILIST; Ord THIS SPECIFIC SURIECT

& O0 BRICIAL SAFONTANCS

J2. C0 COMDIOGAADLE MMPORTANCH

'A S. DO IMPORTANCE

A Us SUOMS INTORTANCI

2 A MAR 1959

(111) EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS (Use adúitional seedle as secessary)

DIPPIcult to pivo a cat-gorical ovuluntion of tils rocort sinco it probably

contains an olomont of truts, but 1t cortainly not the riaolo atory.

It is

sall lon that komilo serdo considorablo tino dcostian, ''e om attort villo

to Philippino novoront's calations with 18, ail 17 18 pronablo tiat ho alton

misloads his govornront in the hope d' indorcut in, kis

onenios at home.

It

1s not kno to what extort, rarilo triod to corrince darele

that sizoablo us

loans wore 1n tho bare but Garela had plonty of ma'rt, fron is offiaialo prior

to 110 irlp that trás miss-re sho caso.

Rom lo' a position rich his aun rovorn-

ticht is cortainly sray and 1t is unlikody that Is ordaions are rivon hoavy

raight by tho tarol covereent.

in may bo a factor ln prosent l'S-'I difiloul-

tios, but tho rendors

for pretent surainod relatine are 10r0 complax than

or y salsundorstandin, s cassod 5y toralo.

(IV) EVALUATOR'S FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS OR GUIDANCE TO COLLECTOR OIL SURECT OF THIS REPORT (Nose: Unles

formal requirement is lo follor, collection of tajonation in resty to puestions on laude sucinatica abett wall de racertalen anis

as comornicas on crailable)

lions.

*It, relea

FORMAL AROUIRINSAT IS

SEITE FONTARDED

FORMAL ARONIRIMENT IS

NOT BRINE: HORNARDED

тови на

RUG

39g

МОНАТИКА

i1. 5tem

DIVIMOGI

DATE

6 barch 50

17 TOP SECRET 17 SECRET

IF CONFIDENTIAL

(10)

---

## Page 57

14-00000

O, CONTACT INon

svari I. 1038

Fabile Bolaziona

102) Connecticut Atenia, M. V.

Henniastare D. C.

TXTRA DISBEMIXATION CONTADE

MAT DE MELRABAD ON METO TO ANON TO,

DELETE

PAMT &

05 & 0.

DELETE

ANTINE

0, Д.

MOM-INC ADANCIRO NON MIE ATUOIKR

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMENT

no fral

cis

PORM NO

I NOV Se 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITOViA

EDITOR

mari as

(2041)

in. cat 7

0-Q-17-9-3-D-R-57-945-1

O POSA/DO DISTON ASTO/LOTTER

OR PIELD USE

ONLY

-BARTO

PROFESS SHEET

POR

•00 C COLLECTIONS

T. GUBAICI ANO ARTA

N0141

• 1x18.

orari

2218662231

logiaty of Us salpflos (Ilbarda/Interational

40) 93.

6/ 05

---

## Page 58

70÷54

ISINFORMATION R PORT INFORMA ON REPORTS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

19 771

mannes no.

+-0-1-8-8-19-571-7-1-A-1

prohibarent br lure.

COUNTRY TilDertO/lotariatIonil

SUBJECT

Bporalat1a0 of cosminiat Effort to

Balich foralga Registry os Us anlpplas

RIPORT NO...

00-

UATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

KEFERENCES

8-9, 120,867

9 Jainzag 1959

DITE OF

INFO.

29 Doc 58 and dartles

MACER

RAIL ASA 22 DES 52 ADI ARTLIAR

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

0f81c98 of a us public relations tira, uhich spocialized in pablletty sax

10r01e0 Bovements and Injustries.

la too International saritino boycott, walch became affretire in December 1958,

agatnat th9

"flago of canvenience"

se UB auned respals regaatared under

10r91ee set1ons, hay caused considarablo consterastion vitbio the liberian

FoverTua1t. libertaas mallro that the countries Imaired (Liberia, Pasams,

Bantures, Diminican Rapublic) have been mide to l'ick 11k0 co canopirators vita

thes 05 abip operators to dostoud the us of tavame and taxes and to avoia tho

standardo of US maritima lon, With the contimance of such a boycott, thes

Ilbeasons fear that thats international reystatica vill da incrensingly bart.

8a I bare learzed that 19 the cere of IlbertA, the blanket condensätton lä sot

jast1t1able because the vigo of ship crava ander Libertan isy are the

tepast after thase of the ls and the us maritine code i salaty vas adopted

Dy Liberso verbatia. To operatics of llberlas redtrinal tansria 10 gita

scotitely disolatara accarilag to those regulss1009, and, as a. panera

rile, Ilbistan consula isspect orary ulbertan flag rissal calling'in their

So

little this date 10 indoubtodly knors, there 18 another factor lavalved. LlberLa

his. to fourth larglist fleet in tha world undes 1is flas, includlog the majurity

Of the boat and sivest Us tankers.

In the ovent of var, liberla has a

stratos agreneut with the is that those reaselo vill do mitched to us

entbarry vithout formalitios.

Bach an agreement does dot erdot inder orber

sons individuala conceroed vith the Marchart barto

soni, theretore, that thie baytott 1s a bigaly desirable tochaiguo on the part

hate prcapi and estectiva contral over secainary saspalag.

Ton liberian lovertout consot inderstand thy the Is dovestment does sot

paalleLy alate that 18 bas approvad the Liberian flas operation, and there 10

correlaly tha prospect tist a contimansce of tale Bitualton will burt

D3/IIberIOs reLAtIoNs.

6-0, 7-8-1-D-8-9-9--J-4-1

ALi

INFORMATION REPORT

VINFORMATION REPORT

a citai

---

## Page 59

FOR PIELO USE ONLY

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

BOD

00;E COLLECTIONS

erren 1965

2 3 38

DUDJECT AMD ARRA

orfarmat rallon preferanco to Dnal vita Ethiaplo Inatoad

D. CONTACT Mor, jMle, 61e

1k684

POR MEADQUAL

ПВССТУКО

Ha1p2

00-

залажеся, ната

BUBJECT

10.516

00 01 0ias

0H051

POT DIR.

BEMINATEN

АРКА

Bavard K. Hoss

Publlo Bolationa

1023 Caspectlert Aperso, A. Ho

Yashlagton.eve

DUD-GOUACE INama, Jalle, Degameranca, Adtrras

--A 22684

BITRA DISATMINATION CONTROL

MAT DE HELLASIO ON METO TO UNON 10.

MON 10E ANTUCIRO POS UNE ATUOIN

FIELD REMARKS

ALTI

о а, о.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

IteT

INTIRI

. D.

7.'

c/s

PJSbarldan

FORM PAIL

1 NOV CO

25

«0170N

1 - АТАТТ СОСКА

USE PREVIQUE EDITIONS

2 180118

L

---

## Page 60

14-00000

F=2684

ANEORMATION REPORI

MINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAMINTELLIGENCE AGENCY

on

(-0-+07-1-9-3-8-9-1-451

COUNTRY BAAlLO/EtEROyIa/ITaLy

SUBJECT

Appareat Ilallan Proference to Deal

RLPORT NO

DATE DISTR.:

NO PAGES 1

REFERENCES

00-

A-3,120,868

5 January 1959

DATE Of

29 Dot 58 and earlles

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE AÇO 29 DeE 50 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

Offscor of a Us jublle relationa fira, Maich apocializos 1a pabllelty sor

soroses governments and 1ndustr1on.

The sagotlations ln the UB durIDE Doceaber 1953 vorklag tovardo a

conclaston of the development loan tuad loan to somalia prodiscod bat

years to us an intoresting do velopent.

props roiraris tha indopaidence of that constry. In the latte.

Deceaber 1195, the toas 1s question reached a polat there 1t;

about

to be appropod.

articials of tha fund dejely roquented sons adaltional

acts Ilmily to justify tha 11ranelal comitmaat.

1a ingotch and Italian, be appeared

sot to understand the loans lavolved.

But be hot subure to tay or a val

so that itha loan v1ll sit ba granti

it present and à considerable delay vit

casteinly to Involvel.

Do Itallate voald prefer to vort nor closely vith Itblopte than

azalla cs tha border and other questions.

3o. I bere aled hoerd a rumor that Bajl Perab All

Omar, Mintater of

•en.

6-0-78-1-D8-7-71041

22. 'AN 1959

WINFORMATION REPORTINFORMATION REPORT.

LIMITEO

FOEREN

---

## Page 61

14-00000

PROBESS SHEET

109

DOiC COLLECTIONS

DUONICT DUD

SUGGEDPOO

00.0

LO SOL/LO DUENT.

FOR PIELO USE ONLY

72684

PiA HEADQUARTERS USEOULS

1810

aTFOOT

6.091

DUDDIO

dea dasl17181712122511 1/441.0128811/1407

80 Cen

30170

DISSED.

DaCOnD

B7. DO

(Budon/Rom)

8000 00-1

RELLADED

DAY

100.

00/11 08/00

12028

MCT DID

SERIMATOO

созваксь. пара.

0501ET

AORA

131 98, 00 DO

Mirard I. Maso

Washington, D. C.

BUD-DOUACE Sound, Tita, Grountraiton, Addered

#7.726814

DAY DE BOLGADIO ON HERO 1O ESOU TO!

SODOONRO LET DO CIA CODOULTANTO

EXPODUDO GITIOGAL POONCTO

DODAES DOROCICO POO GIO OTUGICO

FIELD DEMARKS

COT DISSEMINATED

LORADE DUPTICIENTES

о. 1.

40 03

SALATE

P00T 2

sA 0. 0.

DILITA

BHTI90

0, D.

102 OROEGAL

TOT CATA DUTOLE MENURATEE

91080/DIOCELLANEOUS,

SO0SI000 LITE

COMTORIAS CONDENY

No Evas Requested

Is see unde grie

C

C/O

Р. а. Спат

1 MOU DO

FORE NO 25 NEL PREVIOUO IDITIONS

6CCS

BRANCO - OTATO COREPE.

G. E. Fradio:1

2 1aasta

---

## Page 62

5R-5-8-T-T-BA-ST-A-S

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

LBEZLOTTONOr PAGETE TICIAL CONTHOLS. IE AMY

coant conts bbapaltos aTRT!

CIl DOls00 e1 lDO Dasod Drny EEns I

CUURTOY

Burlan /ReUo

AUDJECT

Reacilon o8 Budanese Diplorai to Covo

=0 D EOLUBIEA BU tNE.

aipoot sa

00-

5-3213,4T8

DATA DISTRIQUYKO

-3 Decamibsr 2958

Da 87 PACEO

DO DR IACLA

SSFPLEMENT TO REPONT O

DATE DE INP OMMATION (DUS) CY GUARA OO EI DOTDACO O ALA, OTODDI E CONESTEDS COCirISOd LI TOPETI

catstell

27 70x.58

PLACA AMO DAIL ACQUIABO OS GIRITAI

DEDPONDIVR 1O

00r Gitre 1ia

21 1002 58

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

OSPICOE O8 O UB JUDLLC FOLAEIODE 818D, VAICH OPACIOLITEO 10 jublicIty SOS

20

During a convorsaçion tlth habsonados Ibrabla Ants, Sudaneda Andanandar to 8ha 8S,

vo specalarca upon devalapranto nuppertlng tbe receut polltienl coip 10 b10

I garberad tant do Anla bad sor musrected surb s rasve, altbough he

oiated that tha Khal1l Covarnunei bad become Isiresssngly vorriel about contral

of the country mith tha parllanem to convere nn 24 lor 58. Ma1s Purllanent

nãd Do cioar najority, qni âbaulia aaalíl ferrra tani tbeto voula de esultim

ensos yhich tould havo a destructivo etfect on tba conildenco of tba cirizano.

DO VDO ESTORA ¿DAE TLOSO VOULA DA COTLORI dEDSIALIDAtINA DECDUSO OS DOLItICOI

201180:106

Ando parsonally seels, tatbout an comitinidon an joê, toat lenlli probabiy

called la Goseral Ibrabla Abboud to alfect an apparant coup.

Both mrn are sech

CLODO SIIENÃS tRSE JASO SEdLA COTTALA tDAt tDO JOlLEICAl LUTE MAs aFTunged

sho en poveramast apparaatly bau sa iutaronl notup closely parallallag tho

At'el soverment 's.

Inaro are tha dome polltical alnisiona, but nou a sdlltary

sacada bas been enaciol to ianura coatimuation ol tba pollcien already

corabllabed.

Thora probably i1ll ba so change in artardal or intaraal objoctives.

sode atsrod that luhansad Mabjub, sorzar furalga Mialuter, bad plaarad to place

zbors of bas garty in smportart esbassies abrasd. Its Ambassodor salè Ebat

¿a10 tonld bar beaa a sistaxe, allbougà 1t uuuld hana bean a rachod oi

artanling party control "oder tha precast governuant, e asear appolatmanto vlli

JoaDabLy Be malatarmad, although lt la poosible teat ll fahdl viil arrange ser

DOm Os ble salativas to ObraLe diplosa8ie stat1003.

Asta s0 comincod that danaral Abboud da son-pollileal soù a patrlotic sudarases

Dão vll rajala lo pouer only ent1l preseni prcdlens are solves.

prumrly et iniermal lestablllty que to the hicherlog 1a folltical factions

auô the sile vatos regotlatione tith lsypt, which enst ee deterines tlthous

Bulan 103ng dut to 1gpt.

Ebes thesa problems ara balval, duls seala tbat

Abberd u1il call for aloctions uith the bopa oi fosados o Parllamant vith a

injorlty party.

In tallolag so sudansse rapresentatiran at tha un durias tha

Suat os 17 lou 58, l dot Doos contrasy oplalnas tbat the sllitasy sovercoane

DY MANIA O LO0S

¿uos and eventually Lose 14s temurasy Datura "s savas os a

Sonarl sonerecort.

• '9• 195:

Eho sudasato laxister os Comarce, cecoratug to AalD, nacently vieited Calro

2a order so ragratiale birsels vich tba pro-feritian aleaest in tba Sudan fos sis

cam palliieal araturo and lo alao vlobed to nie a curflcient sbou of negottatioo

Elà shO REyptIuas t0 sublo tbs Malli Goveraent.

Tulo sase sinister bad

FalDçd 085008 0010cE000 d0 810 U3 devlogsenE Insa os Usi 30 silllas.

Bast Rhs selaonne attoraoy sos uba Groat ouar al tha propased testlle sall la

Eho sedos bol fass to lnll ovar the hond o! the laniatos o. Coberce ungiag 8ea

FELI LaNlEraT t0 dON thI MA. Se strarDey 10 son t00 LeN Furalen Lanlstos

DESTEIBUTIOG

---

## Page 63

C-07-8-1-D-5-8-808-401

10 FOR /HO DISSEN ABRO/LITiO

•2.

00 8-3,138,477

and, in ver o? blo past ertors and the lacè that ha hao a linancial sevarcor

La tha sall, ill certainly approre such US are.

In LacE, then Anto souras Lo

private bustreos, ha will be the holevale diotributor for the traillo sall.

laughingly sald shot the nou Fareign Miniores 10 torn betwen kcoping balo La 422

Us as an Ambasacdos os gettlag his home an quietly as popodblo to bala so sa

a].

E. Ando carpresadd blo corsal concesa abour tho colaration as tas sous regardros tba

coup trich bas boza appearias la the us predo son caito Deureco. Ho Dole shat: ""

2h0e stories bove bad a no-losis tinse, alebough the Usseso has bace nasa

dojectiva in general.

Ands rushed that the sudasene pablic 80 5r0aily

gazo 81th : 1a.

In tbs Sudan 1e 1957-

¿bat even tea sudanade tho had attended the gras vould coon ballovo that than dad '

10s bacausA they ara do puLlibia to Citro prdio

÷ 8.

5:",

$

304.

09.i9

•РД!

<53

•*;

d:169

?

E0 TOSS

ID QUESTY ABROAD

Wesse

---

## Page 64

MUOCIATIO

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FONGARDIO

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

12/2/7/417/2/2/21318

DUANKET AND ANNA

plan Sor U-layptlan Chamber of Concretes - fire)

VAR/EGYAT

BERS AN BOATEN

Torto, Geranigarson

PubIle Holationo

2025 Connocticut Avenua, f. W.

Hasblastas, D. C.

SUD-JOUNCE INemo, Tute, Orponiralion, Aldman

A72684

EXTRA DISSIMINATION CONTADI

MAY DE RELRASRO ON MEED TO RHOM TOI

АРОТПУКЯ ЦАТ ОВ ГЗА СОНотяЙТА.

DELETE

PART&.

08 8.

DELeTE

AMTIRE

8. а.

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMENT

cis

T. o. CMIRE

20s1dan

FORM NO

1 NOV DA

25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

7A68Y

FOR MEADO!

USE ONLY

00000

17/421117/467

пікАтЕ

ого.

11188

NOT

DIA.

SEMINATED

TYPE OO-E

URFANG HEr

PUBINATIONA.

napouts orrrr

BUDJECT

40, 80

MOT DISSEMIMATAD

DAYA SUAFLITO MOULANT

r0038de Fr

2 c2061,

---

## Page 65

14-00000

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

AVBIRES

773% 1

SET BOTTOM OF PACLY SPECIAL CONTROLS. IT ANY

Not i boss a bat to sein to

Bare T88 cal 996 Bo raspealacion es paraterton

Dos to probabhad bi borei

PRAS fOr UB-EgYptIOn ChAnDer OS COMBErCO

DATE DIBIRIDUTEO

21 Morember 1958

NO. OF PADES

NO. OF CACLA.

BUPPEAMENT 1O MEATINTO

astatod 1? Boy 58 and oerller

PLACE ÁMO DATE ACQUIRLO (BY 002720)

12. Jor 5ö and ear210r

00/c.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

ArTicos of a Us publIe palatIons fizu, malch apaciallios 1a pubiscity por

802010 80r0r1a94te and industrion.

So 1o equalntodulth the Commercial Counselor Os the WAR libaddy

In Hastiest i-

-1.

3.

I recently not the Commercial Counselor"

of the Fubassy of the UAR. This 10d1-

vidual strack mo, or triod to conver the luptension, as being sautral tonardo

the win corerment.

do even implied that Gaml Abdul Nas1r'a tastIcs vere.

making his 1110 81111cult 1n Iulf1ll1Dg his dedicatod Miasion of econonle

developuant of the Eloptian sector.

" [presusably, source rufare to Hansan El Abd/

The counselor surpaleed me by saylng. that bo bad quietly approached and "Inod

up" trenty sabotantial is coupandes rhich aro ready to enter into comercial

operations in Perpt as poor as such a nove roala ba feasibla.

Das Loiptian

has been strongly advocating that there is siple roon and nich opportualty sor

UB bosssons th his corestry.

This

Then be dotained and ixchanged on 8. free basis, which vould fite a higher degeroe

of creditabllity to bustenames of both countries than any govertuent-sponsored

orgon1zati0r. This voild fuither sente to craate anouch confidence to roestabilan

Dorsal commercial ectitity.

He bed gone so far as to have lotterbeads printed, with the 1dee of establlebing.

the 1158t beadquarters 1a Cairo, but 18 sor considerlag the advantages of 1a1t1al

steps bedog taken in the us.

ly lngerçss10n 1s that the profoct lo quito sos

along tovaris possibla sru1t103.

08244.390

DISTRIBUTION

STATE

---

## Page 66

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

P. BUDIACT AND ARRA

Probles

D

С-0-П-Р-I-ДBП-I-I-A-L

NO FORY, IO DISEEN ABRD/ISCUISI

_FOR FIELD USE_ONLY

C. ROAMAROBO, O.

1101/11

1442

and allo Waters

73684

FOR HEANQUARIERS USE ONLY

BANA aS BONTES

1213/17529

RELIABIO

мо.

80 28

до.

TYPE 00 F

ОЛАРМІСЯ, МАГА

QUAJECT

111ktS

BE MIMATED

BOUnCE INamo, Tile, I quarrustan,

Bivan & Poss

PubILe Relations

1025 Connecticut Avenzo, N. M.

D. C.

A 12684

PPICIRMBEY

SATRA DISBEMIMATION CONTROL

MAY SA MALBABNO ON NICO TO KNOW TO,

APPROVIO LINI DO CIA CONDULTANTO

APPIAYTO EATENNA, PROACTE

НОИЛАЄ ЛАРИСІЯ РОЗ МО ВТИВЛЯВ

FIELD

REMARKS

08 8.

ENTINE

8. 8.

OTMAN/MISCELLANSOUR,

COMBINED WITH

EDITORIAL COMMENT

No Evae Requested.

Advance Copy Lo

EDITOR

Posteriden

¡MOV SO 25 USE PREVIOUS ROUTIONA.

1 Mor se

ЛИСИ - ЗТАТТ СНІ

No. 6. 5227010033 CE

120-481

---

## Page 67

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSE MINATED BY

CENTRAL IITELLIGENCE AGENCY.

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

726.84

HISILDOTTOM OF PACHE BACIAL CONTROLS. IT ALE

Montonal Detass ál Cho Ualtal Storio attito the

sonatas ál Do Reposago Loma Title 18, U. 8C

mansor lo as cannibarcad per

muo la prodialtod by lat.

AR PURI MO.

00-

83, 17,579

24 November 1953.

NO ORPAORD

DUPPLEMENT TO REPORT A

PEOPONDIVE TO

BudanoGO AntasSEAUr E VIANS On ArTS DaM

and N110 Haters- Froblem

DATE UP INTONMATION (DETO ON di

onlood iz tier 58

PLACE ANU VATE ACQUIRIO (MY

morons ubles, unease on

I1 NOT 58

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

officer of a ls pablle solutiona s1ra, valch apocializes 1a publicity los

foreign governants and ludustries.

1. 2, on Li no a 7 fanta no le ra date, a 8 o topox do isa

US, On I1 For 5.

building the bigo sovan Don on 1t8 on territory.

he roplied that the Duden

could not objact, but that, of course, the dan alze vould thes have to be linited,

as vould the uster storago ana and saulting eloctric sover made avallable by

the den. such a developacut would sot cause peal trouble vith the Budas so 1048

as the ubolo oyaration was kept vell vitals the reyptian border.

2. He sald that the lerptians had anditod that 1l the tho countries vare one, they

would build a settes of low dans, asd then soms lover verslos of Arvan. He felt

that thls was a talling argument agalast Elypt's present dan poBition, sinço that

plan 10 the asco as sou advocsted by the Sudas.

It refutos the Egyptlas 11n0

that the sudra 18 a levless sation which has abrogatod the treaty on use of ille

water.

Nonetheless, the Ambassador could not coscelre any. not of circumstasces

which would cones a truly sorlous rapture betueen the tro countries, thougli reypt

tres to pronets projiaganda crises.

to 10 sure that Canal Abdul lasts Would

noner resort to illltary force agalast the suden and rather naiveily added that

he tld not think that their had boin soy sezious leyptian-lospired aubversion

attempts.u1th12 the Budas.

Hs opdatos 18 that Dudareso-Egyptian relations w111

never reach a Crale 1n lact bocause both countiles vish to naintain at least

the semblance of hiab brotherbood.

• 3.

5.

itle disputo.

"issara 1s some conalderation by the Budaneso doveriment of ¡nefarira

« "ubite paper" on the subject, and possibly initing prondoent foreign boussen

to kbartoLa ICT a perambulAtlag press conferenco.

1'b1s vould Include two ox

three days of pulided tours, conducied by the forelga Minlater, to shou on the

ground the effecte on the sudas of tha Asten Dess.

Ir.cse plass hava not beco

approved as yet, and may not be, bochuse of the fear by the Forelea Hinitter and

tho Ambassador that such a nove idght projualce Egyptian segotiations.

The Ambassador sold that both ha and the forelgn Maletes are vortled that the

Us 18 seenirely unconcerned over tha llle problen of the sudan.

Its 1.000e1tr8t100

sou 16 to courter the els te of the nanounced Borlet ald to Eat to surt ebo

Novan dan ard the dadan aspect 1s dalog overlooked at an important time.,

Ambassador senl-serlously recommended that the Us should grant the sudan

US$100 allies so that it could go abead with 1ts ous dan projects. This vourd

sarve the purpore of countering the sorlat grant to Egypt and vould still

lodicate. US 11t0rest 10 progress for arab states.

Do remarked that the recent US loar-developsent fund for the sudan had produced

considerable political opposition vitain the constry.

he blened this entirely

on arabendllag by bla own government and eald that the amouncesent and explanation

to tha peoplo made 1t appear that too Sudanase Goverment bad "sold out" or bad

TRIBUTION

Mass sino cod Deltan

---

## Page 68

4-00000

+05-708093 5-8 iDols

00-B-3,117,579

Un 1En orfoctiTo une by tho opposition, do jelt, conla pruvant cecapinnco o8

DOY MOTO OUES LOANO tOE DODS EINS tO COES.

LO FORT

DO DISSION DETONO

---

## Page 69

PROCESS SHEET

C- 67-7-1-1-8-5-761-1-1

*EỎ PURE/DO DIESTA WURD/LIXIT

FOR PIELD USE ONLY

040*188

CANE

DOE COLLECTIONS

SUBJECT AND ABLA

178211258

Padda, ranta do tha headed de the dogablle as tha

Bacon, Durablo ADdA

CONTACT [чита, Yul, 1918014604400,

Baward K. Hoco

PublIC RoLatIOn

1025 contactieut Aramo, 1. V.

Hashington, D. C.

A 72684

LOR MEADOUARTTHS URE ONLY

1019

311208011/8:140

201

122

ТУР8 00-8

SATRA DIBBCLINATION CONTEC

,MAY BE MILLAOBD ON METO TO KON TO:

0. в.

A8 18

DELETE

PART &

от в D.

DELETE

ANTIRE

8. О.

PORN CRED SIGUANT

OTNER/ MIACBELANIONS.

COMBIMED UTTA

АРОКОЧКО КТІВНИМ ДРОНЕТЬ

FIELD KIMARKS

DITORIAL COMMEN

ses no prepose in

disseminating it.

Attichad vill sor be roleared vot1l

aster 6:00 PM, Tharodey, 21 son 50.

GIS

FORM BO.

25 USE PREVIOUE EDITIONS

F. Q. CHILI

ANCH - STAFY CHE

Go I. Fredrall

2(20.091

2497

---

## Page 70

14-00000

PROCISS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

SUOJECT ANO ARCA

ATED

10.0

81640

DEFILE

0HI-1-2TH-T-1AL

O FORM/NO DIEST ABROLINITI

POR MELO USE ONLY

¡C. COMPARDIO

DEFONI

020•111

18

1515 0

• [1

Frobless of Reactivallog dant of llos, Orocco

12684

POR MEADQUARTERE USE ONLY

DECRIYTO

REPURI NO

112221

1.7081

17 8

MOT

DIs

SARINATRE

waternetoni

BUNIRCT

22 30

183: 44

н.

•11l

Edward I. HoBa

Piblio Relations

1025 Connectsout, I. W.

Mashington, De G.

BUD-JOUNCE (Nome, Tele, Orruneurtan, Address)

772684

18101

nur minal crani

DELETE

PANT &

MAY DE MELIABRO ON MERO TO KHOW TOI

DILATE

ENTIRE

8. D.

t0о BeneAR

TIRE OTTA RUPATTRO MIGULARLI

APPROUSO LIST ON CIA CONBULTANTA

APPROVED ESTERMAL PROJECTE

MOM LAC AGENCITI POR NIA STUDIRE

FIELD REMARKS

OTMED/078SR6LAN6OUR

COMANED UNN

A 1895

5170, 11n0 81x, 18 Too Blar-X00X Cospany,

EDITORIAL COMMENT

Copus sent dietly

te PP/EAD, DDI, State,

and ocI.

doss state that this raport say bo colore

by llllian fartha do an Interentod party.

understands that sons of the background

information has boes reportod by bor to

Us. O'FrIon of the US Dabassy la Atbens.

180, 849

C/s

P. Q. CHILI

PJSheriden

FORM NO 25 VAR PREVIOUS EDITIONA

I NOV 3O

EDITOR

+ creson

120-011

part

---

## Page 71

14-00000

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUMTRY

Панся

SUBJECI

72684

I SEE BOTTOM OF PAGE FOR SPECIAL CONTROLS. IF ANY

Tate notartal contadoo lalariallos ullerting iso

Fodand Deleano ol lo Multad States aliblo the

moplas al lha Lapodago Latin, Tilla 18. U.B.G.

Sara 993 ond 194 ibo Intastadion as incolatlos

ol tales ip any manoes to an unauthoriad sor

pas to prahiltad by love.

REPORIMO

cO-

A-28 =3,127,581

DATE DISTRIDUTIN

19 Nor 58

NO. UI INCIS

problemo of Beaotivating Bank s5 Ilos

мо. околося

SUPPLEMENT TU MLFORT O

DATE OF INFORMATION (Doto de dotre da de Dal moos villat, evesda da testerso

artared)

PLACE AÑO DATE ACQUIRLO (DY ENDSCA)'

dia ropor

RLIFOMSIVE TO

00/C..

Nov 58 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVELIJATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

Officer of a US publio relations Ilta ubloh spoolalises in publialty for

foralia go verments and Lodustries.

1116

1.

I have had ¿overal convorantions s1th lullian Kerika, a US citizen of

Greek descent, who worked for Greez lar Rellaf and becane friendly as a'.

result with many important Crocke. After Horld War II she learnod of

the bank of Kios, which had been an effectivo organisation but bad boen

caught in the postwar inflation and bad becone Innotive, though not

Liquidated. Dy nogotiation ulta 1ts private Greek owners she acquired

99.6% of the stock, and thereby cease the Ilrat US oltison to control

a Creek bank through the instruent of a Nev lork alty holding compasy.

2.

The Bank of Klos owns, froe and clear, tho iron minea 1a Gresos lone

about worked out and not now ecosoleal, and the other rich in both 1ron

and nickal), an Insurance company and sore raal. outato 1s Creaco, Assets

aro estinatod to bo batwear 05435 s1ll1on.

The sain problem 1s that

tho bank owes the Greek Goverment Us,1 allilos, but. lo otherulee out of debt.

3.

Sho attempted through varlous setiods and negotlations to reactivate the

good mise. She had surveys sade, indlesting rood quality ore, and at one

tino had arranged with a Gerzen pcizare to supply oguiment and tochnical

personnel li return for royalties co ora producad.

with the french sand du lord for further finknoing, but learned that 1t

vas fronting for a Communtot orferdIation uhich vanted to partioipato.

These attempts havo sot succasded to date becauso she could not conclude

any finel arrangements untll the debt to the Crook Gorerment bad been

allainatod.

Though many Middle Bast bistnesseen would welcone a iS owned bank operating

1n Grasco,

sho has been unable to obtain any modiun or long rango develojment

lonna without corbitant interest rates. One offer sho has been hesitant

to accopti cune pra a Canadian Ilos; valeh offerod to advance ber, US$650

thousand which jould settle the Coverment clain for USEl m1l110s.

In

retura sho would have had to agree to buy USis million worth of gold

bulllon orned by the canadion shes is serdoo. The toris vare that sho

would pay about Us$31. 50 per gold salt, bring 'it to Grease and then

ragall 1t to the Canadians at 0S$32.50.

she does not know the reason for

tho deal except that possibly the Canadians wanted to transfer the balllon

to Ibrarl as a percentego arsangenest of the salos prica.

-

5.

At ono stago, a major US sos pany L

I took tho thousand tons of iron

ore for testing in the US, and when it proved out vell she thought sho

would ham a regular supply arrangesent.

It turned out, bowever, that the

company cas a deal vith ilarchos to supply treet nade steal plato for his

you crare ablpyard, ith the belp of mother important is tachaleel fir

These companies vere not interosted in working with her but

had other plans.

She loarned that they bad bopes of aoguiring ber sining

proparty through the Grook Coreraast.

The syndloato offiolals did neat

DISTRIBUTION|

DIATE

fo0-17-32-3-155010402

turnin+: +474 +44799419sts'ssi

LIMITED

---

## Page 72

14-00000

NO FOHN/1O DISSEN AFREAD/NITED

2

00-4-3,117,581

In Athens as 25 Jun 58 for this purpose but come avay supty handed.

- and -

001=-10

SIAL

NO SORR/NO DISSEL ABROAN/INITEI

---

## Page 73

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

DONE CULLECTIONS

BUBJECT ANO AREA

BUCOrsTED

80-4

0 .

SO SORS S0 DISGEN ANTU/LINERD

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

MELO

0a. 0001a.

Decap pereprese

sackground of tahgoub'n Candidacy for Ul Presidenc;

und Braction to Dafeat (Budan)

72684

FOR HEADQUART

ENS USE ONLY

SACRIVED

•a 1. 019

180j81|=:(81/a4 28.80

86/20 20 89 20

642585113732

MELBIBED

82/50/20

•D00

01a68

TTPE ODI

Bends usea

Paukenour.

АГРОПТВ. ОЧИСЯ

SUBJECT

ARIA

BOUNCE Nama, Tilla, Chromerartea,

Estuard 8. Abus

Pable Relations

1025 Connectievt Avanus, I. M.

= A12684

BUD-BOUNCE Nume, Tute.

OUCH 10E, On, D. CL

astor, Aldren

MOT DISSEMIMATED

ALREADT BUTPNCIRMTIS

EXTRA DISSEMIMATION CONTROL

MAY BE MELTASIO ON MERO TO KNOW TO.

DELETE

PART &

07 ч.0.

ENTIRE

8.2

OTMRA/MISCELLARIOUR,

MOM-JAE RORACIRE YOR MIS STUDIES

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMENT

C/s

7. Q CHIE

Pasberidan

TORM NO.

1 NOV 36

25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

LOATOR

no eval requested

1 - SPATT CMILE

2 120011

---

## Page 74

14-00000

29694

•OM9

Ar: FOR SPECIAL CONTROLS: IF. ANY

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

allosal Daliano al Io, Vallad Statoo utanto l

meaning al lia Lastonsgo Inse, Tiro 1D. U.25.

Bma. 983 cud 98l tho bune entos or noraintlie

al this la any treater is ne notatoria! pos

not is probibitad by late.

FERONT No

SUBJECT

Sudan

- 3-3, 213,732

DATE INSTAIDUTED

E Octover 1958

Background of Mahgoub's Candidacy for UNl

NO. OF FAUCS

pace or pnica..

prosidency and Roaction to latoat

2

SUPPLEMENT TO REPONY D

OATE DF :NI DAM ITION (DODO DE dOTOR, DO ON DORITARA VLINE, OTAILO 0S

and 16 sop 58 and earller

PLACE AND DATE ACQUINO (DY DONICA)

00/c.

16 BeD. 58 ood sarller

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

Officer of a US publiC solationa fira, walch apociallzen in publicity t0T

forolga govorments and Industrian.

Mas negotiated with the sudaiana for sons thus about the possiblilty of

handlist 80n0 of tha1r jubl1c rolatone vort 1a the us.

1.

For some tima I hava undo overturos to the Eulanose «bout conductiog jubllo

relations vork 1n the ve for their constry.

would Ilke such assistanco but did not have the funda to support a proper

program.

Early 1a Septenbor 1958 tha iliareso Ambassador to the UB,

Iorabim Ants, received a cable Ston kartous ordering his to do overything,

possiblo to inform the US public 1n favor Of the election of Mohammod Abned Mahgori

the sudanene Foreign Minster, to the praaldency of the 13t0 United lationa

General AERMOLY. In thia, the Budarase Coverment sad tro objectives - tó

obtain this bonor for Mabgous asd to call attention to the sudar and 1to position

1n vorld attairo.

2.

The sudan bas esdeavored to maintala a position of strict noutrality since

obtaining its Independenca and bas trlos to avold any forolgn entanglemento.

The matt reason bas been that the Bodapase Cororsment recogairod the sravity

of the task of vital donnatle scoronic develoyuent and falt that all energdos

Just ba spent in that alroction.' It folned the Arab league primarIly Irons thia

standpoint of "brotherhood" but bas ut1ll trlod to remain completely sentral do

a satian.

the fact that the counch! of the Arab lengue decided to support

Mangoud 1s the UNI was based mostly on the lait that the Arabs considered

Charles Mallx of Lebesor, the otbor rajor candidate, too pro-vest and antl-Arab

1n his vlovs and arsentation.

3.

In a meting with hangoub before the lll election, he comsented toat he. vas.

puzzled by the phobla of the Ul people ovor pan-Arab satlonal1au, Canal Abdul Hasi

and count am.

Ho nald that the Us todsy squates Arab nationalian and prido wIt:

Has1x1an, shen 1n fact, Arab nationallen has been & fact for years beforo tastI.

He added that the suden has had its troubles with liasir's Egypt but he did sot.

personally belleve that lastr had arpanized sctual plots to overthror the

Sudanese Government. Hangoud also remarted on repeated offers of soviet ald to

the Sudan during the past your.

sovlet ambassador to be nore concreta and bad alvays been givan some sort os

excUBA.

The anbassador recently sold under a sinliar attack tbat be vas sotag to

MoscoW ani hould save something darlnite to say on his retura.

4.

During the perlod leading up to the dection, the majority of the Aslas, Arab and

Independent African staies backed Habgoub's candidacy because they considered bis

to be an unencumbered positon, vallo sallk bas become identified vito the us.

In additios, thia support vas given to provo, by his election, the emergenca

of the intluence of sull rations in the ul, as differentiated Iron the current

lesdership of the glasts.

Until Sunday, 14 soy 58, the Mabgoud grouy had

pledges abouga to make it bellove he void vis. But at that point the US startad

actively to campaign for Mallt.

This sove vas resented by Mabzoeb. Although be

DISTRIBUTION

9T9199N8-1-191701

• el CIA, AIT and 17: cod uttuto Stora ened Daterra, da ta

Hes so to diac

---

## Page 75

3.

6.

7.

8.

С-0Д-Р-'-Д-Ц-Н-T-I-j-1

NO PORE/NO DINSIS ABROAD/LINITED

-2.

00-1-3, 123, 732

socognised the Us need to bonor sta jilodge to support talla, de ballovod that

Us activities far excended the comattrent to sallt.

The suistese, bowever,

vero not so irritatos do tha Aral states, which folt that the ls vas trying to

lotluenco thou to donert the un of their choica ln favor al the ls soloction.

They cousidored this diroctly contrary to Presldent Elsenboser's suggention that

the brado should do enorything pousiblo to solve their on probleras.

Mangous told so ha vas sure of thirty-nine votaa, vita fire sore probablea and

sans additional posalbilities an hour before the election.

Ibe Scand Larian

countrlos informed him the day before that they vould sot rose for t11k.

south Amarica had dividod In Opinion and vould not vote as a bloc. Ot these,

Mangous bed alx pledges of support but 1a the final count, de ended vithout a

alagle roto tron Latia Asericas as a redult of hat he called "throato" srou

Cho US. The Ghaos dolegato solt. that bo bad a higher duty thes to aupport

tho US, an a sember of the Consonwealth, In voting for Milk. Ilborla bod

Does the firet sation In Alrica to back the Eleenhover Doctrina and to support

the Us landlags la Lebanos, but 1t too folt that a soutral solerator abould bo

eloctor.

The sudarosa were upset by the anti-langoud rumors, which they are convlaced

vero fostorad by the Us, that the sudan 18 pro-communtet and pretaras.

these

atarian voro common 1n to UN 1a the final dayo boforo the roto and vant so fas

an to say that sangoub binnel: vas a pro-iasir stooge, despite nia rocond.

Tha sudanose do not considor tbemselves

"noutral on the side of the USSR", and

1n fact bave an effective anti-cormuniat lin.

They feel that thair country's

roputation vas blackened unjustly by theso rumors and the resultlug election.

It usy soy be hard to combat soviet propaganda opportunitiea 15 the Sudan,

such as claima that the UB opposed a black Moslem 1n ravor or a vaito aristian

and that the UNSR tackod the sudan unilo the us supported the other side to

1's own sational interest. Mangoud lears that It will da bird for the sudanaso

pooplo to resist such propaganda in their disappointment at too outcove at the

aloction. Ho 18 certain that the sudanese papers will bo full al soviet-Instigatod

anti-Us saterial dod the mala job vill be to "cool Off" the public.

Habgoud belloves that the Arab nations will be most Irritated at tallk's aloction,

but that it vill tako some time to deteinine actual effecte.

He aaked ne thethe

the U8 was Interested in Justifylag 118 polly regardlena of tbe consequences

or was it truly isterostod la making Irlanda in AlrIca. Be felt that the us

bad such possibly to lose ind really little to gals by such apparent Interrentia

1n favor of one was, Mallk, uho 18 not oven supported by his cira Lobenon.

Hangoud was certain that General Shehab did not endorse tails, as vas raported

the us press. ¿boial alvaya lasues publle statemanta as vritton contaiques,

vich did not occur in thia Instance, A US correspondent bad felophaned Sbebab

for a story and in conversation shahsb had casually montioned that talli vas a

Labanens and ho riabed hin vell. The ultimate story did not aypear in tha

abanasa, proas because sbabab himself controls con worship in that country

a fact, the Lobarose press endorsed Hahgoud even moro than did the sudanes

paparo.

The sudanere Toreiga Minleter ansured ne that peraonally be eduires and 1lkes

Mallk. Hall's u1f0 vas raised 11 Thartou and the tro son bare thora each

Other for Many joart. Malgoub commented that before he loft the ul the last

110 Millt had told his that be would isthdren hls our candidacy 11 tabgoub

should be supported by the Arab-states.

This did not come about and my Impression

fron persosal talks with lahgoud vas that the viole affais ended in sarzon for

his rather then in sager.

He and his colleagues had hopod to sals sore vorld

sessIon and than vill do ubet be can to keep sudan publie oplajo an an even

teal. Is added that thers sight be another chance for hin to le eloctod

president of the Assembly.

- end .

00-8-Р-І-Д-В--I-I-А-І

DO DISSEN ABROAD

---

## Page 76

14-00000

WATY ARD WETR

FOR PIRLO USE QUILY

1226.

int,

PRÚCESS SEEI

F03

00/C COLLECTROKS

13

BIBLO

OFFICE

P. BUOTET ANO ACES

Batinaso ol Financa Munfotes Obodesch (Uhans)

a CONTACT AlBana Nona 65e20

• Wanton

72684

USE ONLY

NÒ.

20/18|

18i18316347

RELIABED

DAI

1040/010019.09

08118

001 DIE

ЗАВАЖАТО

Padise Balatious

1025 C6220r81eat Avents, N. W

AH12684

aabiagics, D. C.

Address

AITRA DISSIHIMATION CONTROL

VAST DA ATLBASSO ON MERO TO NADW TOI

LAPRONTO LER DA LA EPTANLTANTA

0. к

1s

076898

PANT S

HELETE

RATIRE

= D.

NOT 0118

Too 85,

Te AUSTer

COMBINED DITH

FIELD REMARIA

EDITORIAL

to Ed Fay

EDITON

FORM

MAINIQUD CONTION

120-498

---

## Page 77

14-00000

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTHY

AUBJECT

E: TOTTOM OF PECT FOR SPECTAT CONTROLS. IF ANT

To.

astartel costolse latormation allerting the

Mososal: talenes ol the Ursted Statoe Mlihta le

Doortag el the Laposago Lomo Milo 18, U.AC

Sace 993 aD8 988, (so transitsteels os rorelatios

al mbles to nay mansor to an undulhorlead por

do to prohibliod by lom.

HIRDATIO.

00-8-3,210,747

DATE DIDIBIOUPEO

I August 1958

NO. GO MADED

NU. OF AMCLS.

DUMPIGMEDI DO REPORT A

a la ropar

MESPOMSIVE TO

axional

Hook of 21 rel 53

PLACE AMO DATE AL QUIAXO (DY PORTRO)

00/c

Неак 08 21 ли 58

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

OSPICET Of a US public relations fira, taich apeciallros in pablicity sor

forcion corresmento and induetrico.

Included In the party.

He was left at boso to "tond tha stora".

Hore vot, on

AJT1VBl 1s Washíngtos, Nirtuah Lostad that the arrangesanta 10r V8 Ilsancial

assistanco vero sit so far advanced as ha had thougit and torosted that Gbedensh

Ily over to attood pantinga as Maliter ol fIDasca for eboss.

I bave koors Ghedansh. for sons time and understand that be 10 toally the "right

completout each otbar.

There is no real love lost batvoan then but both hate a

sreat recpect for the other.

The othor sinisters dial'se Gooicuza fox blo

InflUenco over tha Prime Malutar. Guedemah adndtted to sa that ho cas puab

matters just so tar in the othor maintrios and than must be extrusaly caratal

not to kave his colleagues thiat he le trydrs to intrudo 11 their apbarea ot

¡kruna, too, 15 conscious of this jaalousy and tries to conceal the

extent of the frasco Mluistor's importance. It I1 THry. COMPOs SOr Marmal to

diaçust a matter vith a Malotit and then turs to Cbodeush tos his adviico as veil.

At the conclusios of the volt to lasblanton, ilousab arked Oboderiah to

accoupery bin for tbe tent of the IrIP, but the winistar rofused, anying that.

likrumab could do the band abaking, but ha tbought 1t voald be a vasto of time

for hinGell and proferred to do baci to Chass, Gbalessa 1o the onLy asticial voo

vould dare to rasuso a llarinan regreat.

3. Gbodemah 18 an Interesting personality, Da 19 TOTY MA-ATrIcon and 10 almost as

AmBlEsa 0! ATTICA, the US and suraja, Do 1n traly an lstalloct by Atrican or

almost any standards, vith vide rasglas Intorosts 19 sany Iloldo. Tie Minister

1s extresely velloread, upending two to four hours nightly vith a boas. Ei

scOops up EaterIal of all lunda vibarenor do goos and bis portera el retention en

axcollent.

HIs preferences are fOr LAPOrAAtION Of a prectical rathar than

theoretical nature, nod bla thistlos tands to be torardo tis possible ratibes

thes sarely the dasirablo.

The FInAnCe MAlEter thinia faTarably Of sono NOSt Of «n AITICAn federatIOn but

oaly 1n terns of the futuro, perhaps in 20-50 joars. la 10 one of the fen

Attican icaders who serma to rocogalla tha eventual Importanes of Illgarladtat

1E achleves its Independorco.

the West, south and forth, with a loose single goverment etrustine on top. The

contral governent vill be veak and InaSoCtIVe fOr BONs tINA fOr Lack of

exportenced personnel and bacause at area Mvalties.

Borever, because of

LigarLa's future rotential, tadian alroady makes a polat ol sales cat or bli

vay to cultivato algariano.

DISTRIBUTION

ISTATE

соданої

MAVY

ta rais baronstero seppert

Tal to do con

---

## Page 78

14-00000

C-O-N-P=1-D-3-N-T-I-SoT

*I FORM/NO DISLIM ANNOAD/LIHILI

4'=÷=3,1853,147

So dioderti,

I t001, 10 biada dia EiRe OvI tha L00A Faga.

ky 0911 - taraly Ba

G 2000T LA

"seat Assica.

ut presose ha in coot at huna ao a bobird lacaconea polleg saker.

tore io a

pooull1a1ey kost, 1a tha oraut of tha dall iron pover de leo doma ed iumma

Goedeanh told es durin bo cronos Thais &

¿no Pres lasaior noi hao not bean dovelujing tho lenderubas gualistra or

EEDArdOrO Iedos lo rayloco Nurnh affectivoly 8or Chana paesua soni decor

oa00a7. Coonema d0 concernod ovor ubat night bappon ui8a 504ala na a

Esta geralar an tho tuo.

• dod o

3. 71:

19 assi-romani.

. . .

: *,

: 0.

staineo

945 antoni

1.

10-4-2009060

8°.

IA,

**=

1: 90.3.

sai

Finir.

="*

G0061080808 B080808-D08

---

