# 104-10226-10092

## Page 1

-00000

104-10226-10092

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MINFORMATION REPORTI

→: "579"

CINTRAL IUTILLIGENCI AGENCY

a minto at in no a lot to dro conso do to a vic son

CLASSIFICAT:ON- D.ISEMINA:.ON CONTION

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN /CONTINUED CONTROL

DOUNTRY

СТВА

PLANNED ACTION BY CLANDESTINI

ORGANIZATIONS IN CURI

мож на тося -3/510,078

DATE DISTR 17 AUGUST 1862

PRICICRYCA ROUTINE

DATS OF

REFTUENCTS

18 -46171

9 - 11 'AUGUST 1982

FRANCE, PARIS (15 AUGUST 10.18)

NARAISAL

FRO RRAOIT NO

DIS HUNEYALUAYEO IMAMATCH SOURCI GRADIMIT ARI DERINTIVE NERDISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATVE

AN OFFICIAL FRENCH SERVICE; FRUM AN INFURMAST THO OBTAINED THE

INFORMATION IN A LETTER FROM A :OUNTERREVOLUTIONARY GROUP IN CUBA.

1. THE INTERYAL SITUATION IN CUIA IS REACHINO A CRISIS, AND

CLANDESTINE ORGANIZATIONS HAVE REACHAN IN ACCORD TU ACT FITHOUT

OUTSIDE HELP, USING WHATEVER ZAPONS ANU STRATEGY ARE AVAILABLE.

THZ CLANDESTINE ORGANIZATION IN CUBA ARB, BEPING THE TACT OF THIS

PROPOSED ACTION BECRET FROM THE EXILE COMINENTS. THE CLANDESTINE

GROUPS CONTEND THAT THE LATEST SOVIET DEVE OPHENTS, IT PERMITTED

TO OONTINUE, MILL DESTROY ALL FINAL HOPES AIR LIBERATION. IP

CONDITIONS PERMIT, THE UNITED STATES NAVAL bL'E AT GUANTANANO

WILL BE NOTIFIED SIX TO TWELVE BOURS DEFORE TU: PLANNED ACTION.

2. VITY SOVIIT TROOPS OCCUPYING CUBA AND LINTROLLING SECRET

INOTALLATIONS ON THE NORTHERN COAST OF CUBA, 1Y TRE IS NO UNITED

ДИСАПО - ОТІМІМ:CH COMPOI

NOFORI/ CONTINUED COSTROL

REDINCLAY.

TELEGRAME INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM!

---

## Page 2

14-00000

8 -P.-C-M-ki-it

NOTURI/ CONTINUSO CONTROL

TDCS-3/919.978

0-18871

920s ?

iot:

BYATZS HELD ATTRR TAX ACTION STARTA, 1T MIlL ASSURS IN A CREAT

TRAOZDY FOR CUBA. ii.:

.

3. PIELD DISSEN, CINCZANI, CIRCARIB...

END OY SEBRAGS

....

"1°

w'ir

i''!

Py."

1;

• i:

....

CEASNRGATAT

-EX-R-E.

FORE CUNTENTIO CCTRI

---

