# 104-10075-10225

## Page 1

1104-10075-10225

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

O SECRET

ROUUNG

I DIRECTOR

OM • C/SAS 5

STiON.

DOP, ADOP, 0/0612, VR

5552 ET ?722482

DIP CITE WAVE 8223

DIATITYPIC A PANTY FEDAUP COMMO

REFSI A. VAVE ROGA (IN 66850)

MAlE SO?! (1N 66867)

C. WAVE BIT? (IW

66868>

D. WAVE BOTA (IW 66883)

E. VAVE RITS (IN 67242)

F.

WAVE R198 (IN 67216)

P. HAVE 8126 (IN 67381)

IN: 69411

A. AJ. ENTERINE DIRECTLY T'E FLAGE. TEODORD IS IN CHARTE OF

qUE VIGILANCE OF KARAT ONE. ARLE, UYD IS ANIAL'S LAH, IS IN CHAPPE OF

LADAT TUS.. DOCTER JITERES IS IN CHIPPE OF THE INTELLIGENCE FOR KARAT.

INE. THIS VAS OR. JIFELES MOPIED UIN PANCHO VELLA IN KERE BEFORE.

ACURES.

100.: - 7156E

ARE DATA DY LAYID'S FAN ARD TIED.

FUNCTISIS DAIA DUEL BILLDOZER.

30 YEARS

3D.

SON IN 193S. DE DO NOT HAVE THE DAY ALD EIH SIN OF

A M

HARKS IN THE LATER SUPPLY LINI OF BOCA DEL BLAFRE. IS PARRIED

LIVES ON THE SEADY DE BORE DA

DIADE. NILL MORY

SECRET

11044

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIC

1 19411 FASEZ

" RICEETIUNS, DATA ON EL PIRATA... JOSE TEMPRANA CARMONA.

ALIAS EL

NING. IF BUYER OF THE 1A 1T09E AGAT MITH A & HORSE POMER NOTOR UHO

VILL UPA IN REREFT IQNE.: 98 YEARS QD. MORY IN SOCA PALATRE ON 19

"ACH 199S., KAPRIED AID HAS A CHILDREN. FISHERPAN. CONTINUES.

BON UP 'AIORISAND ALTA TRAUSA. LIVES IN SOCA DE CALATRE.

NA'E OF MIE SOAT IS LA CIVIDA, DATA Di LL HIGHLANTES

THIS MAM

laces sood

PINEA ITS TOUGE TO LOCATE THE RADIO OPERATOR.

FERN ON 19 SENTEMSER 18G.

SON-oF

-AND

LIVES ON THE

ON THE HIBAHAY OF SAN JUAN DEL CALAFPE

1WILL WILL LATER SIID THE COORDINATES.

DATA ON APERIOR. MIS BAPE KOUSE.!

ESTEBAN SUAREZ ROJAS. S6 YEARS

20.

19 1 25 DESHIA 107.

...SUTi UT FAELÚ ÁNU ISABELA.

KANHILD

AND HAS A CHILDREN LIVES IN LA PAL'A FARM. CONTINUES.

Do #CA FARMER.: d HILL LATER SEAD YOU THE EXAM LOCATION DY

SEED SET: OF MAPS ON COLIBRI. RECEIVED YOUR RESSAGE 82.

ACURES:

Q7. 68T YOU EHIND VARN SALLO THE BREAT DANGER ARTACAN

1S 1" IF HE REVEALS ANTIFING ON THE TUFE DF NIRX THAT NAS ENTRUSTED TO

HIY IN CIA. VE MILL NO USE POSITION COT IRA ARIA. VE ARE AHAITING

ED "RUS FRO FAECHO VILLA IF MI HAS RE-RISUZO CACHE NORTE TARLE.

GLACIDO NOTED ROTTE POIR THE CACKE YOU TOLD HIS DAS LOCATED DI FRONT

MATIS-PERE SHAS MOS SEEN FOUE DY A TILER UNO DELIVERDO ALL

TIT CORPITOTES FITTES I RECEIVED YOU SEAM

er, "yu9

TOOT IS TERRIES SIOUS IN PY GOA PIEDS'S LETTER.

I?S. THOS INDICTION lE LATTE 1I MANEER. LAST TEAR

23033832924950939940202

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFIEET MESSAGE

SEEI

NOT PAGE S

FACT DEY. ILERE A PUFLIC DEMONSTATION WAS GIVEN IN FOLLOWING THE TRAIL

A'I FIDIVE A YAN THROUGH DOSTAGES, SUCH AS SUGAR CANE, WEEDS, AND SO

CV. THESE ANIALS APE NON IN SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS. SOURCE OF

I SPATION,

"ONER OF FAPY ADJACENT TO THE TOLEDO SUGAR FACTORY.

TEC DOD INFORMED. REPORTED BY ANTONIO ON IS NOVEMBER. AQUILES.

1500 OTTO. RECEIVED MESSAGE NUMBER 87. AQUIES.

WAVE COMMENTS& RE REF. A. KARAT ONE AND TWO REFER TO OPERATION

2290L0

NO VAVE TRACES SUESS REF?.

AND REF C. REF E. SAULD REFUGEE

laces nat

173 DE)

EXICO, COTOPPA IS CARE TER

EOPET

---

