# 104-10174-10070

## Page 1

3104-10174-10070

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

NATERIAL REVIERED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COSMITTEE ON ASSISSINATIONS STAFF MELBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:_

LUCE, CLAXE SUTH

C- 21976

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

411.04

ROOM:

DELETIONS

DATE

RECEIVED

28 JUL 1978

DATF

RETURNED

1/28/1%7

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

Palmer

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Betty: Palmei

NO DOCUNENTS SAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS PILS

SECRETA

THIS FOLDER IS NOTATO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF

SI/STAFF THE PEPSON CHARGED WITHSTHIS FOLDER

MUST NOTINY C/ONSOTT IMMEDIATELY IT IS

TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN

CI/STAY SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE

PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN

RE PEDIS LOCATED AT ANY TIME AS NEEDED:

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

FilTe le)

APPROVE: MORÄ RECORD

•& 9.8

as.

moné

119102

CarPrOtYn

Latis, Clare Booth

(:)

NiUS CHECK a INVESTIGATIVE RECORD"

DÀ TE

-blo

0.A.

R1

TRACES

DeS

TR

acis

tY

1ELI

FRAGE

C. S:A:

P.P.A

PROP: APP

5.0. 17

VESTIGAT ICO

CASI DEPICCO

Janes Basler

MAT SO

1260

DIVISION

SEGRET

8 jul 58 ad

PADJECT

PEEREG NE

PSEUDONTÙ

ISsUED.

CHECK (N)

DATE

CITENTION

8187

(8.8)

---

## Page 3

SECRET

1l saly 1953

C. Russo

Clast Boothe Loc

.rorlov. of.rarroquest of 8 duly 1903 for Uporetton

rovala on the above súbjecte disclous that on 1 lay 1563 tha Cor

sals Inporation sa anallatle to you for rover 1a 01/04.

an Anaricin altiion rosiding in too latte

SUARS P. BAC

Acting Chief,

---

## Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED

ONLY

O COMSSEHTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

EriaNsiO

C. RUsso

WE/4/X

70:

Dion designanod

* Memorandum

OA8. Juay 1963

DATE

DECANTO

"потікок»!

ach comment to shou fröm unt

INTIALS

C/WE/4

Chief, Cl

O A

81A5

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

iNTERRAL

USE OBLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

8 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI

SUBJECT:

Operational Approvals for Former

Ambassadors to Italy.

LUCE, Clair Boothe C-71 916

ZELLERBACH, James David

3-110lt

1 Before he left to assume his duties as COS. Rome,

Mr. William Harvey asked that we check into the present status

of Operational Approvals on Subjects.

A check of Cl/OA re-

vealed that one on MTs. Luce expited to 1958, and that there

• bad recendy been one active on Mr. Zellerbach for CCS une

only

2.

it would be appreciated if OAs rould be given ta

Subjects so that Mr. Harvey may be permitted to speak with

them at eny time in the future should they visit his area, or in

the event that he secks to see them whenever he is in the United

Statee:

Since it would be difticult to determine a time limit for

keeping such One active, it would be

appreciated if they could

be given for an indeterminate period:

Marl

Wins

F. Mark Wyatt

C/WE/4

---

## Page 6

SECRET

33 SEct 58

SUBJECT:

LUCE, Clare Footh

Refe

nace is made to your request to this orrice dated

The reply to your request is contained in the attached

nds. fron the office of Security. dated

hier, et; on

MICROFILMED

509* 388 изе

SECRET,

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNNENT

TO

i chies, c1/0A

DATE: 28 SEP 1959

TROM : Deputy

Diroctor of Sacurity (Invosticationg

and Support)

file

SUBJECT: C-71976

#169102

Cary losers

1.

Retoranco la mado to sour rumurandum dated 9

July

1958 whorein a

covort security approval was requested to

permit subjoct's use undor Progget FaunECALE.

2.

On 16 Soptombor 1958 a reprosontativo of the intor.

ostod. Division adviiod that

there was no longer any intorost

in the subjoot.

A memorandum to that offoct will be sont

your offico in tho nour futuro.

It is requostid that a copy of the aforonentionad

condoliation momorandul de. forwerded to this offico for in-

corporation into Subjectis rilo.

FOR THE DIRECTOR CA SECURITY:

порот с

Cunningh

SEGRET

---

## Page 8

14-010 1 11

To:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

SECRAT

Filtwioy

14 Sept s3

Frecessing Sieiion

FLLASE TAC TME RAGERNG AETARO CY TAL CASI

SET ECOTM ANCIVE.

(Aliano cared "Reoar»»

re drseila).

C-71976

SET UP TOO:

poe arrar

+• 0I-e 1a01s80 d00

up. roni

Ja.oe

B8UK

TONAL

IaSUE

paoriziondi ossairionne ippnoral

INNCSPIGATION NTIlL DUTSTAMDIMG

AnAcnetur To secuaito

ore ODa Qie

PRSPARG CANCRiLATION PORM:

BINO TO RI/ARCHIVAS.

WCimy gecs/Nm ded 16Sats8

EXTEMO POA TOR.

OArS UNTIL

Gia lene

aiur. cusca

REQUES"

TRAÇES

PROUISI OPIRÁTIONAL Ó DIN.: TRACES

arouest picto iRnces

HL gutST.

Oie !

Jino irs:

Arouest adortiona proceaenie inro

PLOUTOT: CHFM 118T

cuenian caiiN Giat INcORMaTION

ACQUiST.OrSULTS.OF TECH, INTEAROGATION

SENO "UUEAN" NEMO. TO DIVISION

OTreR (S0o Ronertaj

SECRET

---

## Page 9

D UNCLASSIFIED

HE CHUS

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBRCTi (ObRonO!)

PROM

HO

DATE

1Q: lOttres dorignation, rooms nuribor, oss

buildong)

MATE

OFFICER'S

• ANIMALS

ECTINO FORMAIDD

16 SeRtember 1958

to anton.

CI/OA

1402 "J" Blag.

SEr 11B 4 09 PH '58

PA 610 SECRE PECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERHAS

USE GALY

UNCLASSIFIED

FOR ASKANE

---

## Page 10

SECRET

16 Septezbar 1958

BRANDUS NORa: Deptity Diraotos of Security

JUStIONS

sad Spoil, intention

3. Cites, CI/DA

dance 1 caralletion or clera

Seques

a i Pod Me of date, Kes to no corn loo

Bootlio ba cancolledi

8. Tha Il Divlalon has trifarood this office that it vill be

JOSA D. BOUTBARD

CANOELLED

Ser Wised

COPY TO SECURITY

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

SECKET:

ron Pulled (a)

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION IND (OR) NAME CHECK

Deputy Director of Security

Chief,

CI/Operstional Approval

and Support Division

C- 71976

DATE

& guy 1258

PSURSCALS

TYPE Of REQUEST

INCICES REBULTS ARQUESTEO

8: METHOD OF

000.11

TOI CHECE ALOUESTIO

or (Date)

AREA OF SUBJECT'S ASSICHLIENT

EL/OPS/CCA/NOC

doner for BroTeCt ABORALALA

INVESTIGATION MOT TO REVAL, INTEGEST OF :

OVERHEAT

COVCA SUCELETED TOR iNVESTICATiON

10.. ATTACHMENTS.

'FORM MO.

693 USE PREYIOUS EDITIONS:

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SIFIEO

TERNAL-

ONLY

CONF'TENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUNTCT: /Qjaciol

FROM:

calere Central Cover Sr./IC

TO: lOftiçee derignation; roori nuarber, ind

witdieig).

DATE

RCNO

POSMARDED

OFPICER'S

•INITLAIS

1.

DATE

_:1 July 1958

CoeNS a dr oct a cidaro do choo t co moi

CI/DA

1402 "T" Bidg.

iraeto goniaio

•e intipin ife

49130.

010.45

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 13

Fire:

SECRET

REQUES: FOR INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL

то:.

Cl/Operational Approval and Support.

Division

FROM:

(Divisiony

SUBJECT

TRUE NAME

LUCE, Clare Booth hilL

YPTOMYM OR PSEUDONYM

TYPE-OF AGENT OR INPLOYEE

P-112

FATE.

Ji vuly 195°

Proute!

USE OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE (Fall decaila)

To be used as a donos for Project PACKSCALE.

SO FILE. NO.

=

3 1 PA "58

PRIORITY

PROVISIONAL

APPROvAL

OPERAZIONAL APPROJAI

GOVERNMENT MAME CHECK

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO POld in.

PRO!: OR EQUIVALENT. IS ATTACHED

PRO IN IS ATTACHED:

IF O TAiNABLE.

PEVEAL

NO InFORMATION

OF VALLE

REVEAL INPORMATION

A'S. ATTACHED.

GOVER MENT

CONvERSION

RI TRACES

TYPE ACTION REQUESTEd

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY

APPROVAL

PROPRIETADY APPROVAL

OTHER:

PRE ANO GREEN

LIST STATUS.

COPIES

PRÒ

ILL

FORMARDED WHEN RECEIVED

GREEN LIST CHECK MAS BEEN IMITIATED

- FIELD TRACES

SE FORDARDED THEN SECEIVED

ENOT INUTAALÇO."

NOT EXPECTED TO POSSESS RELLYANT INFO

SUGGESTED

INVESTIGATIVE COVER "

MACADENIC

OTHER:

DIVISION TRACES

RECORD

NO RECORD:

RE COND

INOVERTE SPECIA LIMLATIONS ON DAVESTIGATION Of RICIAL COVERAGE DESIRED

NO, DECORO

UBJECT

IGNATURE

хай врацв вот

EATENSION

FORN

• SEA 66

SIGNATURI

CHIEF

if Fran to tG t that

SECRET

---

## Page 14

CESA

tie (s020)

LUCB, GlaTo. Bor

prê

oçnt

oddress: ildentseld, Connect

sCreigaton University

Toreriv, Anericaa Anbrasedor to i

Italy and ex-rangiessni

Tats request orlalnated in CoB/El rooss files contala no editional

so dorogatory Informition..

It to roquasted thot hon-arfleial cover be utilized in conducting

tha clearance since subnet is avare of U.S, Covernsent and CLA

Interest and as the impending terestigation.

---

