# 104-10217-10027

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10217-10027

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ES67-54/67141

2 him?

1.301

тО:

FROY,

Diroctor of Spocial Invostigationa

Inspoctor Goaoral

USAT

Attontion: HiT. Gilbort R. LOTS

Doputy Director, Plane

LIlLA Dolaz Tacodor

MAR 42 1961

DUCUENT INCHORAL SERACE

100-2-82

1.

Saferonco is nado to tho tolophono Icquest dated 24

Fouruary 1261,

of injor talono for incorantion concernira

Lindsey WIld and loinz Tacodor 'TI!I?.

Tho filea contain

tho 1olio1ng infornation concoining the subjocts of your

roguost..

Arcording to Information from an official Portuguero

sorvicon trid yor contacted in late August inso in santa laria.

the hores,

by tiny darl. long?.

marie on in 15sa

diplomat.

and 1obo, Guilia mis rollanly reporci

loy

Olior Bourcos,

to havo boch

a ailitary cuppoitor o: Pliol CHirl's rovolution

and to ho onployod by CASTIO poualbly a3 a G2 ajont.

August 1059 ho hnd Infiltratod tho ranio of cortain anti-CASTRO

consplratora and doliverod tho loudora us to tho Cuban Covora-

mont.

3.

Tho Portuguoso soreico further repo led in septembor 1900_

that hindroy LliG, ala LIliC llad infritar the mangor of a Chiroso

rostaurant located at sua Valaveris is.

:"1r9r1rl, dipin, aud that tho

s'ontaurant una orod ly a aocond (unter-triled) Chinono, tho vas

altis supplying clothing to tio Unlind scalas porsonnol at the

R0J08 BA30 in tho MIoTos.

Throder Holra Minink, who had reprosontod

cho clothiny dira in tho

10r0n, san reporteily arrostod thero 1n

EXICOTlOr 1053 ON A QUispICION Oi

espiourio, and vas, an of coptombor

2000.

roport. dly in Bornudr,

whnro

LllE Was planninE to go to

inventignin sotting up anolhoi resiaurast.

al are..

111ris contain no furthor luiormation concornins. sut

joota than that wilch 1a alrchay holloved to la containod in your

81105.

C5C7-3/761,141

SEGRET

RID/CE: JWE/R0/15g

Bisod

(29-2-712)

оп:

Orри-29505,

13 Jan.

61

LISB-182T (IN 12873), 15 Scpt.,

60

- 7-62

---

