# 104-10171-10042

## Page 1

$ 4-00000

104-10171-10042

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10.

DISPATCH

Chief, Tast: Force H

CLASSINATIA.

S-E-C-R-E-T

PirO

1):

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARNED. ICA INCARING

¡NO INDEXING MOVINLO

MLADQUANTIRS DISA

CAN JUDGE IMDERING

ABSTRACT

MIrIOSILM

•ALCUM

Chief of Station,

' JMWAVE

MyrOperation/ GYROSE/KUCAGE/AMIENT.

Report,of Independent DRE Infiltration Operation

ACTIOM HIQUIRED. PLSERIMOIS

Action: FYI and files

ReD: B: WAVE 395E

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

According to AMHINT-42,

on a0 way 19profit sand hours.

local,

the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil: (DRE) mounted an

operation independent of JMWAVE support,

infiltrating AMHINT-40 and

AMHINT-53 at 'Kawama," Varadero Beach .(2313N-8116W).

The two-man

team was launched successfully and observed as they moved up the beach

and across a

field to a lighted dwelling which is an operational

However, after the team were

safehoused and during

recovery of the

a 12-man

AHHINT safehouse launch dinghy by the parent craft JUANIN brier fire-

militia patrol discovered them and challenged.

During the

fight that ensued, the JUANIN I crew reported that two to four militia-

men were observed

to drup under their fire.

to reference

B confirmation of this operation there were no mility

and the local militin post also reported they had daricciealtle to

three casualtles

"on the escapees". )

The JUANIN I suffered no casualties

or. hits, retired from the beach at speeds up to 30 knots and returned

to their base in Key Marathon without incident.

Distribution:

3 - C/TFW

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

CLASSITICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE TYNED

19-120-19 c0uD13

DAIL DiSPATCHED.

MAY 3 1 1962

28 May 1962

OISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

UFGA-4186

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-120-19/3

W/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

LFGI-41S6

2.

At 1515 hours

on 21 May, the DRE offices in Miami received a

commercial cable in prearranged code indicating the team had arrived

safely in l'aradero.

Later, at about 1020 hours, a telephone cali

indicated that the team were in salehouses in Havana since carly

04.

morning 21 May.

On 22 Na!, a legal traveler, Heriberto LEON Rodriguez,

arrived in Miami and reported

to DRE offices concerning this operation.

(Subject of a following dispatch. )OYLEON is the safehouse ounor who

ceceived the leam, provided change of clothing, food, shelter, sent

the

cable confirming safe arrival and later transported them to Havana.

Subject did not witness. the beach

encounter, but heard the fire-fight

and overheard

reports of the encounter during a visit to the Militia

post the following worning.

The most significant operational factor of this mission is

that the militia post has reported the incident as an 'escape" and

has not suspected that an infiltration operation has talen place.

Therefore,

no search or roadblocks were set up and it can be assumed

that ANHINT safehousing in that area is still intact.

portant to note that, although conjecture at this point, apparently

the GOC has not given this clash the propaganda treatment given the

patrol encounter of their CY-28 with the SUSAN. ANN because it was

reported as an "escape." and therefore any casualties inflicted on escapees

would not make sympathetic propaganda.

Also, there were reportedly no

militia casualties to give this clash propaganda value.

1. • This operation

was mounted by orders of ANHINT-53 who was

becoming understandably desperate about DRE internal conditions.

Subject had been scheduled for infiltration three times over the past

three months and

cancelled for reasons ranging from mission reception

hazards to renssessment and requirements for further training.

coming after a long history of DRE internal support problems

obstacles, some of which resulted in costly operational losses and

compremises,

prompted AMHINT-53 to mount the infiltration at

any cost.

Subject's primary mission is to identify and confirm appointments

within clandestine apparat at national and provincial levels.

Opera-

tional losses

through arrest and KIA or execution during past four,

months has resulted in almost two complete turnovers in leadership

at national levels.

His secondary mission is. to organize the National

Reception Committee for materiel supply and infiltration of paramilitary

instructors, radio operators and intelligence agents.

for this purpose

ANHINT-40,

who has operated as National Reception Committee Organizer

for nimost two years,

formed the

team with AMHINT-53.

These preparations

within BRUMEN

should be ready by the time their radio operator,

AMHINT-52, completes his training.

5. Some of the pertinent operation details follow:

The JUANIN I is a new,

recently purchased by.

the DRE. for

their infiltraTRon

BERTRAN built "Noppy",

operations.

They have trained their crew and equipped their vessel

idea of offering it to JMWAVE in return for k/T communications

armament support for their missions.

Such a support agreement

been approved in principle by JAlAVE and details are being worked

out of the Naritime Section, JANiVE.

b. On this operation, the vessel crew was as follows:

ANHINT-12, Captain

NHINT-43, Navigator

LHBOUY -2.

regionl

intelligence and guide

Bernabe PENA Ballate, gunner

Man'el QUISA, gunner

2/5R

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGAA1186--_4

c. Vessel armament was procured by DRE and reported as:

1 ea SUG, N-3, Cal. 45 (800 rds ammo)

ea FAR, Belgian,

(200 rds)

ea Carbine, NIAl Cal .30 (300 rds)

1

1

ea Rifle, Garand M-1 (300

rds)

ca

Pistol, Cal .15 (100 rds).•

ea Pistol, 9mm (100 rds)

6.

According to AUMINT-12 narrative of the mission, the JUANIN I

departed Marathon

base at 1130 hours local on 20 day

with clear weathe.

and about one foot sens.

Proceeding on a course of 186 degrees at about

17 knots cruising, the JUANIN I arrived at a point approximately 20

niles north of their daunch point

(2330N-8115H) at about 2030 hours.

in order to reach their point at 2200 hours, and reduce daylight exposure

in the sensitive north coast arca, they reduced speed and killed time.

Merchant vessels were observed and avoided since it was feared that

JUANIN position and course might be reported to GOC.

Upon arriving at their launch point, beach conditions were as

expected on this day of traditional festivity.

The small park krown as

"Parque Infantil Init", was illuminated and much of the local populace

were dancing in the pavillion.

AMHINT-42 selected a point about 500

yards north of the pard and about 500 yards from their nearest sarehouse.

As he brought the JUANIN into about 200 yards of the beach, the muon

was at about a 25 degree elevation and a fringe of pine shaded most.

of the deserted beach

aren where the team would land.

The JUANIN is

camaflouge color and was apparently not readily visible

team. boarded the 12-foot, fiberglass dinghy with a

6 hp outboard and accompanied by AMBOUY-2 and

Bernabe PENA for protec-

tive cover fire, proceeded to the beach.

The landing was smooth and

incident but after the team

had made their way up the beach,

the pines and across the field to the safehouse, a patrol of

militia came down the beach,

The launch dinghy had just started from the beach when 'two of

the militia ran forward and challenged them to stop and return to the

beach.

AMBOUY-2 and PENA opened fire at about 40 yards range, cbserv-

ing that both militia men dropped to the sand.

The patrol then opened

up with one burst of

automatic fire as the dinghy got underway to the

parent JUANIN.

Meanwhile,

the JUANIN came in

to about 75 yards to

recover the dinghy and retire from the beach at top speed.

During

recovery,

the patrol kept up fire fron

one automatic weapon which was

ineffective and did not score one hit on personnel or craft.

Upon return to base, the JUANIN crew were warned by

AMHINT-42 of security implications and responsibilities of

operation, l.e. any leak in Miami could result in the compromise of

ANHINT safe housing in that area as well as the death of the infiltrees

There was no contact with ODYOKE agencies upon departure or re-entry

END OF DISPATCH

21BR

---

