# 104-10169-10089

## Page 1

4-00.000

104-10169-10089.

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Retrun de Firminach

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

I DES TO MUR NO —

SECRET

FROM UNWAVE

ACTION

NO.

Desor (

ню.

XI RiD COPRIADVANCE COPY TUSED TO CS/DO AT 2285 P)

DCI,

D/DCI,

Vi,

EX/DIR,

FILE

ADOP.

са 2.

DOP,

CAPEG.

CS/RF,

CA/PROP,

CO "res 6,

CI, CH/PS,

F1/SPG, WH 8,

wh/C 12.

SECRET 20425Z

28 JAN BE 3802 66 IN 47°

DIR INFO PACY? LANT BARR CITE WAVE 8798

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA. NO PROJECT. AMBLINK-I FROM AMRAZZ-I SHO RECEIVED INFO

FROM ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN ON 13 AND 28 JANUARY... FIELD CONMENT

BASED ON UFG 7864. RID NO INDEX. FILED 288$25Z

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•CUBA

SUBU: COORDINATION OF SINE, MIRR AND RECE ON PLANS TO STAGE AN

ATTACK ON CUBA IN EARLY FEBRUARY

D0I: 13 AND 28 JANUARY 1966

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (18 AND 27 JANUARY 1966)

UFG 792$

I COMMENT:

RELEASING I WO

IN. 10 :H0 46

seedle li let ide.

11: 04

WHEREG

WELC

8

12

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

28 JANUARY 1966

0413 2

TOSS D64315/00316-66

X ROUTINE

BASED ONI

PRIORITY

UFG 7920

NP CAMRAZZ/ 1)

PAUL M. BIRKELAN

03

HAISONI.

UNCLUDED

SECRET

DEQLAROTPIGATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

*Copy No.

c:04: 11

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduo

2/00

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• SECRET

HE tO O MIT то мико О

ROVING

IX RID COPY

INO

PAGE 2 IN 43868

SOURCES A CUBAN EMIGRE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MAP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE

PEOPLE). HE HAS BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION

ANO ON GENERAL EMIGRE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

IN COMMENTI

RELEASINO I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTEDI

TDES

ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

LAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTIOFLAY OTHER THAN ISSUING OSTICE IS PROMIGITEO

«XOLUDED FROM AUTOMAT

DOWMORADIMO AND..

DROLANRIPIDATION

2 i " Copy No.

03

1/00

---

## Page 3

14-00000

20х

SECRET

notes facted du

IN FORDER BUTER CANTABLE, ASSEN

SECRET

CENT

AB INTEBRIDENCS ADENCY.

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE C

L3 AN 20 JANUARY 1966

T00. 08-315100316-66

окте 28 ленят 1966

бикт

@ COORDINATION OF SAFE, MIRR AND RECE ON PLANS TO STAGE AN

ATTACK ON CUBA IN EARLY FEBRUARY

на 8

DATE ACO VANTED STATES, MIAMI (18 ANO 29 JAMERY 1966)

....soura.....

TAND

APPRAISAL

# 430068

MARD AEPORT NO. UPG 1820

A CUBAN EMIGRÉ WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO MRP, REVULUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE), HE MS BEEN AN

ACCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION AND ON GENERAL. EMIGRE POLITICAL

DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

He Whard a

— 1: ON 2$ JANUARY 1966 AN OFFICER OF THE SEGUNDO FRENTE

NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SENE,. SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY),

SAID THAT ARMANDO FLEITES DIAZ, MILITARY COORDINATOR OF THE SFNE,

HAD BEEN MEETING WITH UNNAMED REPRESENTATIVES OF THE MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONACA (MIRR, INSURREC-

TIONAL MOVEMENT. FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) AND REPRESENTACION

CUBANA EN EL EXILIO (RECE, CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE) TO PLAN AN

ATTACK ON CUBA WHICH WILL PROBABLY TAKE PLACE IN EARLY FEBRUARY.

'2. IN MID-JANUARY THE SFNE WAS DISCUSSING TWO AITERNATIVE

ACTION PLANS AGAINST CUBA; AN ATTACK ON AN UNSPECIFIED TARGET ON

any manner to an unauthorzed person

prohiblied by law.

Aw: 188 !

3 IN TORTEN DISCA/CONTROLE DISSEA

SECRET

SPATILL DIA ARMYLACE: NAVY... AM IS MCDU

NSA NK AID USA OG UNI GER ORE 00"

CHANNES ERL ANGS GUSTOMS BORDER PATROL

COASI GUARD

EX!

two di titani

---

## Page 4

14-00000

LE PASS BONI CAMERAS MON

SECRET

T00900+515/00316-Éfriit.

1.80. 00,5

FINANCIAL SITUATION OT THE SENE WAS CRITICAL, ANO IT WAS HOPED

THAT THE PUBLICITY WHICH WOULD RESULT FROM A SUECESSFUL OPERATION

WOULO STIMULATE CONTRIBUTIONS.

3. (FIELO COMMENT.. A RECENT REPORT FROM THE SAME SOURCE

REPORTED THAT FLEITES PLANNED TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST CUBA IN EARLY

FEBRUARY, +0508-31590046-66 " FROM IN INDEPENDENT SOURCE,

REPORTED THAT THE MIRR PLANNED TO STAGE A RAID ON THE NORTH COAST

OF MATANZAS PROVINCE ON 6. JANUARY, WITH MOMBERS. OF. IHE-30-NOVEMBER

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRIN) AND REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIC ALLIANCE

(ARD) PARTICIPATING. THE RAID WAS POSTPONED WHEN THE ARD MEMBER

REFUSEO TO BECOME INVOLVED WITH THE MRIN MEMBER.)

4.. FIELD DISSEME CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, IGNS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG.

: 123:

i Trie

м. роді

8000 50/0E11604O

to much roche Jose

dera

SECRET

FACEND OF MESSAGE

4021,05

A FURLEN ISSEN/CONTROLLED BUSSSY

11, 9 taw:

---

