# 104-10062-10256

## Page 1

1104-10062-10256

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/PCS

2E0314 Hqs.

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

] CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

21/ PA

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

5e47

EXTENSION

5044

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

23 Feb 78

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to show from whor

to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.

These are the notes from the

pa 180p

DDO Staff Meeting of 22 February

eI/Rmo

•er Registry

3.

5.

7.

2 FED 1978

27/2/28 71

34/38 54N

Russ Holmes

iT.

12.

із.

PINCORE FOG SONICE CRE

JAR ANYSCENAL REVIEW KOL BRARE

is.

FORM

610 USE REND

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DDO STAFF MEETING BRIEF #32

22 February 1978

1. DDCI

The DDCI attended this week's staff meeting. He spoke

of his appreciation of being able to work directly with

the Operations Directorate, an organization which he has

known from the field.

He said that when he was first

offered the nomination of the post of Deputy Director,

he thought of the Agency primarily in terms of his

perceptions of this Directorate.

He knew that its officers

worked long hours, developed excellent contacts and produced

top-flight reports working always with a strong sense of

dedication.

He is planning to have a series of briefings

which will

further acquaint him with the activities of the

Directorate. Meanwhile he reaffirmed that he had an open

door to persons who had problems or

issues that they wished

to bring directly to his attention.

While the Department has expressed very strong

by the position that he expressed during his confirmation

When asked by one Senator about the State/CIA

relations, he said that he felt this relationship had been.

codified to the extent that this was possible and that it

was now a matter for Ambassadors and Chiefs of Station to

work out their own individual arrangements. He hopes that

we will be able to find some way of diffusing

, this issue so

that we may proceed to other more substantive issues such as

internal reporting responsibilities, communications, and

cover.

Specific cover problems were briefly discussed. The

DDO promised to deliver to the DDCI a new inventory of

those issues

and situations where the Divisions are

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

• CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

04025

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 008284

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-

2-

encountering problems that they or the DDO had been unable

o resolve with the Department. The Diel agreed to take ‹

ook at this catalog of cover problems and asked that :

special paper on cover problems in Africa be forwarded to

him.

Mr. Carlucci spoke of the interest Congress has in

imposing Hughes/Ryan type procedures on sensitive intelligence

operations as well as covert action. He had pointed out two

problem areas to

the senate Committee, 1.e.,

the difficulty

of defining what is a sensitive operation and the problems

involved in providing sufficient background and detail to

permit the SSCI to make informed judgments on individual

operations.

2.

Responses to DI. Brzezinski's Letter

While Dr. Brzezinski has not replied to the letter sent

earlier to him this month proposing the 32 key countries on

which we would prepare new political reporting plans. we

are working on the presumption that this list is acceptable

It is planned that we will include sensitive

operational details in a separate annex.

The plan will be

coordinated with NFAC and the Department and then forwarded

with the annex to Dr. Brzezinski.

3. Nemoranda Addressed to DCI and DDCI

Memoranda addressed to the DCl and DDCl concerning their

appointments with Ambassadors and Chiefs of Station should

be in their offices at least three days prior to the

scheduled appointment.

4. Reorganization of the Operations Directorate

The DDO presented his tentative plan for the reorganization

of the Operations Directorate which he will discuss with the

Director within a week.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SDRYIDEMTIAL-EY23 ONLY

21 FEB 1978

PERSONNEL ANNOUNCEMENTS

(Kenney, John H. >

Hughes, Ralph C., JT.>

EXTENSION

Ogino, Jack,

wetten, Thomas A.

Panitt, Jeffrey>

(EUR) DCOS,

(NE) ECOS,

(NE) COS/

(NE) DCOS

5(AF).

COs/

February 1978

May 1978

EXTEND TO

August 1979

H/L and new tour

o/a 8/78

June 1979

CUNFIDENTIAL EYES GOLY

---

