# 104-10310-10088

## Page 1

1104-10310-10088

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSIMATION RECORDS ACT OF 1902(13%

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

ROOM NO.

TO: SA/D.DO

BUILDING

REMARKS:

Toms 2 7 16

Tila: 55c/LA.

FROM:

ROOM NO.

FORM

BUILDING

REPLA MAY BE USEO.

EXTENSION

---

## Page 2

13-00000

25 FEB 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

ATTENTION:

VIA:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Mr. Walter Elder

SA/DDO

SSC Contact

RS 76-0200/b dated 19 February 1976

the following conments are in answer to paragraphs 1,

3, 6 and 7 of referencod memorandu: (paragraphis 2, 4 and s

are to be answered by other components in the Ageacy):

Concerning paragraph 1, the initials which

appear on papers in the AMLASH file,

_"G.N.N."

3

Robere SSC, To belleyed to be "G.M.R.", those of Grace W.

Ms& Roberts/was an Intelligence Assistant assigned

to the Latin America Division. She retired in February 1969.

b. The only information in the Latin America

Division concerning Gilberto Lopez mentioned in paragraph 3

is a report that conflus his travel to Cuba on 27 November

1963.

This travel information is already reflected in

Lopez' 201 file.

34 c.

The cryptonym mentioned in paragraph 6 refers

to the liaison/ program our Station in Mexico City maintains

with the Mexican Securfty Service

d. The Mannells) referred to in parasteph 7 are

not located in the Washington ares.

They could be made

available to the SSC, however, given a reasonable time

frame of at least two or three days notice.

signed

Psygond A. Tarren

Richard S. Sampson

Chief

J2 tie he Dress

B2, IMPDET

CL BY 012180

Sinc

---

