# 104-10127-10016

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10127-10016

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C/LAmass

55/301

SECRET

ca..

STAFF

CONF: CILA-8

INFO: ODPD-D, VRO FILES D/DCI, DDO-L. CSRF, C/CI-4,

C/CI/OCFLA C/EPS/COMP, C/EPS/EG-ZO CAOG/OMS, C/POSA CAPOSICAC, C/POSALOC.

CAPOSAPGLA DIOLCA DDO/DO, ICS, OGC-2.

78 1024592

PAGE 001

TOT: 2218492 JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261709

SECRET

STAFF 221849Z DIRECIOR-261709

TO:

IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY.

NIACI MEXICO CITY.

Inlt.

LARICEN

DE:

RYBAT KNINTEL

REF: MEXICO CITY 459401022224

Ci:

FOLLOWING POINTS RESOLVED AT MEETING WITH ROBERT

BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL MSCA AND GARY CORNNELLO DEPUTY COUNSEL ASCA:

A.

ASCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEN LICHANT-I ON BASIS HE

QUESTIONED DEBA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN FOLLOWING KENNEDY ASSASSINA-

TION.

HSCA WILL NOT REVEAL THEIR KNOWLEDGE HIS UNWITTING USE FOR

CIA THROUGH LIHUFF-1.

HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LICOOKY-L AND LIHUFF-1

ON BASIS THEY U.S. CITIZENS WHO RESIDENT IN MEXICO AT TIME OF KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION.

AS YOU AWARE LICOOKY/1 HAS RECEIVED WIDE PUBLICITY

AS RESULT JACK ANDERSON ARTICLE IN "PARADE" MAGAZINE ON 12 AUG 1962

15 HAVING BEEN EMPLOYED IN CUBAN MINISTRY OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 1959-

60 AND PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP WITH FIDEL CASTRO. LIHUFF-1 WILL BE

INTERVIEWED ON BASIS HIS RESIDENCY IN MEXICO CITY SINCE 1949 AND HIS

ASSOCIATION WITH GENERAL MOTORS AND AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN

ACE HIS

HSCA WILL NOT REVEAL THEY AMARE BOTH HAD RELATIONSHIP

... WITH AGENCY.

MISCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEN LITAMIL-I AND 9 ON BASIS

.. THEY FORMER EMPLOYEES CUBAN EMBASSY MEXICO:

HSCA ADVISED US THAT

ON PREVIOUS TRIP THEY INTERVIEWED OTHER FORMER MEMBERS CUBAN

EMBASSY MEXICO WITH ASSISTANCE MEXICAN AUTHORITIES. MSCA WILL NOT

REVEAL THEY AMARE OF FORMER CIA RELATIONSHIP.

D. MSCA REQUESTS THAT RAYMOND M. GERENDE AND LIONION-1 (IF

HE CAN BE LOCATED IN MEXICO BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW IN

HOTEL ROOM. MISCA SAID VOICE COMMUNICATION WILL BE SUFFICIENT, HONO

SECRET

19827

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 1024592

PAGE 002

TOT:

2218492 JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261709

EVER, CLOSED CIRCUIT TV EQUIPMENT BEING SENT FOR POSSIBLE CONTINGENCY

USE.

HSCA HAS AGREED TO INTERVIEW EDWARD G. TICHBORN AS FORMER

AGENCY EMPLOYEE IN SAME MANNER AS DONE PREVIOUSLY WITH MR. CHARLES!

FLICK, ET AL.

MSCA WILL ACCEPT CAPT. GOODING'S VOUCHING FOR BONA FIDES

OF GERENDE AND LIONION-1 WHO CAN USE ALIASES DURING INTERVIEW IF

THEY DESIRE.

3.

HSCA CONFIRMED THAT THEY HAD REQUESTED EMBASSY TO ASK

MEXICAN GOVERNMENT TO LOCATE ALL BUT GERENDE AND LIONION-I FOR INTER-

VIEN PURPOSES.

MSCA WILL BE TRAVELING OFFICIAL PASSPORTS. STATE

DEPT HAS NOT ADVISED MSCA WHERE THEY WILL BE BILLETTED.

4.

IN VIEW AGREEMENT THAT ONLY GERENDE AND LIONION-I-WILL BE

INTERVIEWED UNDER INDIRECT (I.E. HOTEL POOM WITH VOICE SYSTEM) CON-

DITIONS, STATION MAY BE ABLE ARRANGE SITE WITH LOWER PROFILE AND

BETTER SECURITY.

AS ME SEE IT, MINIMUM REQUIREMENT WOULD BE FOR

PRIVATE SPACE FOR HSCH, FOR PERSON BEING INTERVIEWED AND FOR

CAPT. GOODING, TECH AND STATION OFFICER.

HENCE APARTMENT OR SUITE

KITH

THREE SEPARATE ROOMS SHOULD SUFFICE.

AS STATION NOTES, PASSAGE TO AG FLORES NAMES(LITAMIL-9,

_LITAMIL-DO LICHANT-1, LIHUFF-1, CLARK FLORES AND PALOMARES PRECLUDES

ANY STATION ACTION TO CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEN. HOWEVER.

ANY INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO STATION WMICH MIGHT ASSIST MSLA IN

LOCATING THEM SHOULD BE PROVIDED. SIMILAR INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT

HELP ASCA LOCATE LICOOKY-I SHOULD ALSO BE PROVIDED, BUT AS NOTED PARA

¿ (A) ABOVE, ASCA WILL INITIATE CONTACT AND NO DIRECT STATION ACTION

REQUIRED.

IN CASE OF GERENDE AND LIONION-1, STATION WILL BE REQUIRED

MAKE CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEWS.

6.

PER PARA 1 (E) ABOVE, TICHBORN WILL BE INTERVIEWED AS

FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEE, AND STATION WILL BE EXPECTED CONTACT, ASSUME

ING HE IN MEXICO, AND ARRANGE INTERVIEW AT CONVENIENCE OF HSCA AND

AT SITE THEIR CHOOSING.

FOLLOWING IS BACKGROUND INFO ON TICHRORN

CIDENTITYJOFOR STATION USE:

EDWARD G. TICHBORN (P) WAS HIRED IN LATE 1959 AS POLITICAL

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

"*.

SECRET

STAFF

78 1024592

PAGE 003

TOT: 2218492 JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261709

ACTION ADVISOR FOR AGENCY-SPONSORED ELECTION OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT

LATIN AMERICA.

IN 1961 HE BECAME FULL-TIME CONTRACT AGENT AND WAS

ASSIGNED TO MEXICO. CITY UNDER PERSONAL COVER WHICH PERMITTED MIM TO

TRAVEL ON THIRD COUNTRY POLITICAL ACTION ASSIGNMENTS. WHILE BASED

IN MEXICO HE WAS PRIMARILY A HOS ASSET BUT, IN ADDITION, ASSISTED

THE STATION BY ESTABLISHING/RUNNING A MAGAZINE "DIALOGOS" AIMED AT

LATIN-AMERICAN INTELLECTUALS AND BY REPORTING ON ACTIVITIES/ ATTITUDES

OF MEXICAN LEFT-WING INTELLECTUALS.

FOR PERSONAL REASONS. TICHBORN

LEFT MEXICO IN AUG 1966. DURING PERIOD I OCT 1966 - 30 JUN 1967 LA

DIVISION HAD OPPORTUNITY TO USE TICHBORN AS POLITICAL ACTION ADVISOR

ON ONE OCCASION. FILE INDICATED HE ALSO MADE MAJOR EFFORT TO DEVELOP

IN-DEPTH STUDY OF THE PRI IN MEXICO BUT, AS OF MAY 1967, THIS EFFORT

WAS DROPPED BECAUSE OF RELUCTANCE ON PART OF HIS PRI CONTACTS TO

DISCUSS SENSITIVE PRI AREAS AND TO INTRODUCE HIM TO OTHER CONTACTS.

ALTHOUGH SCHEDULED FOR TERMINATION ON 30 SEPT 1967. HE FINALLY

SEVERED HIS RELATIONSMIP WITH HIS COVER COMPANY ON 31 AUG 1968

AND RECEIVED HIS TERMINATION SETTLEMENT ON 12 SEPT 1968.

THE LAST

KNOWN ADDRESS (DOI NOV 1966) FOR TICHBORN WAS 5900 ARLINGTON AVENUE.

RIVERDALE, NEW YORK, HOME PHONE (212) 884-8728.

APPRECIATE STATION EFFORTS TO COPE WITH REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED

ON US BY FiSCA AND OUR OWN CONCERN FOR SECURITY IN MEETING DEMANDS

PLACED BY ISCA. HSCA DEPUTY COUNSEL GARY CORNWELL WAS TOLD AT 22 JULY

MEETING THAT CAPT. GOODING, AS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEI, WOULD MAKE

EVERY EFFORT TO RESOLVE NITH COS PARTICIPATION) ANY PROBLEMS THAT

MAY ARISE DURING MSCA VISIT TO MEXICO. IN VIEW OF THE IMPORTANCE OF

THIS MATTER WE ASK THAT STATION MAKE A MEXIMUM EFFORT TO ENSURE THE

SUCCESS OF THE ISLA MISSION.

8.

NO FILE.

EZ IMPDET.>

ORIG: LA/MGSB/R!

(HAWKINS) AND

C/LA/STAFFE (STURBITTS); COORD:

C/POS (PAGE); C/LAD (WARRENS?

AUTH: CALAIMGSB (HANKINS)!

RELS

DDO (STURBITTS BY DIRECTION OF) CL BY 029163.€

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

