# 104-10219-10122

## Page 1

4-00000

M104-10219-10122 . :

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

- 5.

taped

letriefingo of TIDRAMAS

Is. coke: lillian at : 80 (rS54-0379, 13 Yorenber, Fnel 4)8

l": iN'i don mel di lie los Arioles airpor: on tuestay noralal,

27 • clober 19 by :1 .301 3749 anl chey frove to SUraN!o humo in

sierra 'alre, lull! m!s, mirre til stayal ureil his le arture

for the last Count an " lovember, SUN hat preslously invitos

I/l to viale him wier i/1 rot lo Callfornia, S'MAN allovos TA tO

use his car forin...the visit.

3o Acristini 10 1/1, SiMAY dus "In charge of all eciprent in the

¡as inales Slate Corlege paurica laor tory" and was engaged 10

der! lse at cliliné iyeirs agulment unta: the surero:st of

T. Farl ill 43, linal of Lie Lad. Stato Mysica Mi ainent. I/l also

+4oo- 00000-10090-01

nilel that ¿MA!: Ail iNCO'S voro "jArtiera in a Luginese serso" and

were workit on a "iroject w.ich the military estat:!ishrent" vas

", 'n'estos 1n", naraly "somalhi no, to 10 01th a siecial typo Of

varior, pa,0 of sury are of vacuum equipmento. The dir jorce vas

•ll to to the seriico specificaliy interestos in the projact.

" I/l rep: 4 1 440599919l been tilled in a lot of differant

emineg", bro:: lire, file proj iciné, and hal heen a musician,

" ruleg-joral" on, on picture chaerator, anl satheratician.

6. "IMAY ant T/l "'rev up torether" in Sierra Balro and are about

• Ple oate ape (8/l i9"5), I/l cromentos that ho and SUl'lY were

rsch alito sir a unvo, SiMAN las 5 chilfren, but I/l notod hat

De la! 810% Mortal mint in his I1fe"-jepyrding hearily on 418

wich has "a los of noney".

•.x.

RYBAT

EaH. Ai107, WB/2/S

SECRET,

File: TIDRAMA

---

