# 104-10188-10041

## Page 1

00000

104-10188-10041

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

Chief; WA Division

ancorern

tily

PROCISSING ACTION

AN LiVi

AR

то

охта

FROM

DESENSITIZED

par GSN 43-43

CAN MOVE INOCKING

Chief of Station, Moxico City

surer: OLIFEAT PrOsTOss RepOrt/July 1963

ICTIOM REQUIRED. RETERENCES

Ref: HAMA 21755

BX

DESTEFD

The following report 18 submitted in accordance with CSFHB-F-52-6-1

ection V, paragraph 2 (d) (1)

A. EPLONTATION OF LEADS

(2) LIFEAT/Sovlot

LIPPAT has continued its

dally coverase of the home phones of tuo known Soviet Intelligence Officers.

This has enabled the

Intereated Station officer to monitor the daily activitios

of these officere including clandestine contacts of one and lately the appar-

ent involvement of the other in an affair with the wife of another Soviet

orficial stalloned in Mexico.

During the final weeks of

RENAVE's stay In Moxico, LIFEAT provided continuing support to the attempted

approach to BIXNAVE.

"IIve-monitoring" the

target lines to give early warning of BANAVE's exact departure plans as well

as the movements of BIXNAVE. LI'EAT also initlated coverare of the Polish

Comercial Office In support of the Interested Station officer's attempt to

gain more information on that installation and the personnel assigned thereto.

1Pd:81000031 1033910910

(3) LIFEAT/Cuban

targets related to the AMSTRUT operation are of great in'erest to JMWAVE and

Headquarters.

Copies of the processed take from these lines are forwarded

weekly to these customers.

A recent and exceilent roundup of AMSTRUF-S done

by Headquarters drew heavily on LIFEAT provided Information. This roundup

¡J was very vell done and greatly appreciated by the station.

porting period nothing of interest vas obtained from the coverage of the

home of a Cuban Commercial Attache and it is planned to cut this coverage in

the near iture if it remains unproductive.

ні'!:.

# HOS

:%OH

SiS REPERENCE PO

(4) LIFFAT/Ex1le

LIPFAT coverage of ESLARD-1

continues to be of interest to both the Sailon, Headquarters and other

Stations uto are connected with ESIARD-l's activitieo.

Information con-

cernins ISLARDl's planned travel lo boti. Central America and PBPRIME vas

fully reported from this coverage.

LIPEAT Information enables the Station

to provide iInely physical surveillance of SSLARD-l which should sive infor

mation of his exact departure date and sode of travel.

DISPATCH SYMORE AND MURABER

DATE

11B1A 02029

27 August 1963

RECORD COPY

140:

SECRET C

1 50-6,32,.

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SPCRET /

HMMA - 22039

•O8И

is 530

LIFET continued coverage of Judith FERRATO Segur las providad

a number of londo for posalblo agent candidaies to asseas and develop this

Costa Rican Communiat exilo.

(5) LIFFAT/American Communist Group in Mexico (ACOM)

The information proviaed to the local ODENVy office fron the coverage of

BATI DUCKER Ánd ChariéS SMALL, (SMOLINOFT) 18 most useful to that offico

for covertia Amarican leftists and Communists who traval to Maxiço.

Often

Their contacts with members of ACUM

are of special interist to ODaNVY.

(6) LIPEAT/MIscellaneous

As noted in reference the

coverago of a former SMOTH agent is of interest to Headquarters, SMOTH and

the senior ODYOKE official In Mexico.

Recent Information from thia coverago

Indicates that this indifidual la continuing in his literary offorts against

PRIs Intorest.

LIFFAT, at Headquarters request, has undertaken coverage of tho

targets of ZRKNICK interest.

Although the coverage has not sa yet been of

sufficient duration to judge the take definitively, one of these coverages

appeara to lave potential in providing information of Interest.

Bo PROCESSING OF TAKE

Processing vorkload of the LIFEAT processor/translator staif remains

heavy, but no backlor, has developed.

With the recruitment of LIFEUD-28,

there vill be a posalble more equitable division of the work for the noted

staff.

C. PERSONNEL

L.IPBUD-28 was granted a POA on 8 July 1963. This agent candidato 18

presently being assessed, PRQ Part II will be forvarded at the earliest

possible date.

LIFEUD-1 has Initiated attempte to expand his commiasion for investi-

gating adminiatrative personnel of the telephone company (see paragraph 2 C

of reference) to include all company technical personnel as well.

This

would give L-l the access to the telephone centrals he previously enjoyed as

ven with the presently reduced access

IFEULl has continued to make a substantial contribution to the success o

the LIFTAT operation.

D. LIAISUN

No change from conditions noted in reference.

E. SECURITY

As noted in reference LIFEAT access to the telephone centrals has been

reduced by the combination of LIFEUD-l's

"retirenent" and the new "work

order" system being implemented by the telephone company. As of the present,

LIFEAT has not been adversely effected in any particular Incident br the lack

of LIFDUD-1'g

"protection" of the LIPFAT Iirenen although this constitutes

a continuing danger to the operation. LIFPUDI 1s working tovaru regaining

the access he preslously enjoyed.

If he is suçcessful LIFEAT'a access to

the telephone centrals and partial circurvention of the "work order" system

would be re-established.

Just prior to the reporting period, a telephone work crew disconnected

the LIFEAT lines routing the

Yugoslav Embassy tap lines to the basehouse.

This was done at a point one-half mile fron the basehouse and an equal dis-

tance from the target Embassy, and at a point shere the tap routing vas

"jumped" from one telephone central's area to the central arca serving the

basehouse.

It was assumed the telephone crew would be curious as to the

nature of

these unusual connections.

LIFEAT lineuen therefore disconnected

the tap routing completely between

the basehouse and the telephone work crew.

$551.0011

FACE NO

SECRET/

THO

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF.

DISPATCH

SECRPT /S

KMM4-22029

Even if the crew had then attempted to checkout the routing it vould have

been impossible.

No direct danago vas done to LIFFAT as a result of this

discovery but it was agreed that 1? possible LIENVOY should assume the

Yugoslav coverage in the future.

If such will not prove feasible, a cooling

Par'M u1l anau? price in TIPFAT attemptire to ro-establish the noted

coverage.

F. TECHNICAL

No change from conditions noted in reference.

2. The coverage provided by LIVAT during the reporting perlod totaled

19 separate lines.

A breakdown by target is as follous:

1.

Aleksandr &. SIDOROY

2.

3.

Sryatoslar F. KUZNETSOY

1, 5, and 6.

7, and 8. AMSTRUT operation.

9.

Home of a Cuban Comnercial Attache

10.

Home of a Czech intelligence officer

11. and 12. Targets of ZRKNICK interest

17. Judith FERRETO Segura

18, and 19. Former SMUTH ngent and related line.

3.

During the reporting period a number of memoranda vere prepared by

the Station

for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part

•on LIFEAT provided material. One HMM was provided based on LIFEAT material

(HN91-7550) .

Secard Contes

Distribution::

із -С/WHIL

2 - Mlea

FORM

105530

(00)

SIPI SI:SA

CLASS NICATION.

SECRET /

50-6-32/3

PAGE NO

CONINUED

THREE

---

