# 104-10186-10132

## Page 1

104-10186-10132

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNFONMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIEN DISSEM

COUNTAY Cuba

SURECT: ROdOlSO OF Radulto

PANG POTOs

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/04212-61

'DATE DiSTR

16 doptember 1961

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

Do Nol Roproduca

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. September

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADIMOS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAl OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until Apr11 1964

Headquarters Comments

The following report 1s one of a sertes contatning personality

Information provided by

the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

• 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any o

the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Rodolio or Radulfo PAEZ Perez, pseudonym "Pelayo," 1s

the Chief of Personnel for the Direccion General de Intellgenci

(General Directorate pf Intelligence - DGI). He also carries

a Ministry of the Interior carnet.

!

Hoadguarters Commenta

An untested source, reported in a report dated 22 May 1962,

that Radulfo PAEZ Perez, Third Secretary of the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City,

1g a member of the Cuban G-2. e

was scheduled to return to Cuba within the next two or

three months.

24

An Gificial lialson service) in a report dated 28 December 1962,

stated that Radalfo PAEZ Perez, Third Secretary of the Cuban

mbassy in Mexico City, was suspected of being a cuban

ntellizence officer and a code clerk trained by the Cubar G-2.

SECRET

NO FORBIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

lARur

REP

-CINCLANT

(Nora: Flald distribution ladiconed by " #".)

I NAVY

CINCSO H

AIR

I&NS

NSA

XXX

FBI 2

TINFORNATION

REPORT

INIFORMATION

REPORT

IIEXCANADA IR

5

2

1

HI/SA/EORI HELS/R

AILSALMOBL

-EMADR

HALLSAR 1

NILSALCIA

GILLIA

aid tho

_WHASH (BR)

RIDLANAL

TOTALE

W1/SA 7 (1), NO 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

14X - 1683

NO PROJECT (AMBIUG/1)

CSCI-316/01212-04

COOTOIMATIMO USE.

CI/R&A

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CSCI-316/01212-64

3.

Puts and Manuol VERGA Perez vere responsible for sedting up the ner

Wanittee 1n

Defense of the Cuban Revolution."

PAsZ'

Mire 18

Teresa Pantalèan HERNANDEZ de PReE.

# report dated 23 January 1963, revealed that Radulfo PAEZ Perez

had been replaced as Third Secretary of the Cubra Sabassy in Hexico

City by Pedro LARA MunOS.

•.

SE

'RE T

NO FORSIGN

DISSEX

---

